~-----------~­
OD The Inside 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
.v~o~I~·~V~I~II~N~o~·~98~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------T~u~e~s~da~y~~rch26, 1W4 


Irish Wake ready 
about why we thought a party of this nature 
and size culd be held successfully. The report 
has met with favorable response." 
Dean of Students John Macheca said he shared comments with members of the staff and then discussed it at a Central Staff meeting, although the Wake is primarily his responsibility. 
"Macheca," said Gasior, "has helped us a great deal and pointed out the rough spots that had to be worked out. He's integrally involved in the planning as is Fr. David Schlaver, director of student activities." 
Macheca commented that he is working on the same basis as he would for any private hall party, only on a larger scale and that he has the same expectations for this party as for any private party. 
"By using Stepan, the Wake gives students the chance to show responsibility and also · gives the University the opportunity to show a sign of good will towards the improvement of An Tostal," continued Macheca. "This is something worth doing and doing right." 
The use of Stepan has many advantages according to Gasior. Because the Wake will immediately follow the Beach Boys concert, the An Tostal Committee will be able to sell a package deal for the two events. Both will be held on campus, so transportation will not be a problem. 
In addition, a "more positive atmosphere on campus will be achieved during the weekend by havig all events on campus," stated Gasior. "The use of Stepan could also create a precedent for the implementation of campus facilities for parties." 
The Wake will run from 10:00 a.m. untill :00 
p.m. It will be limited to 450 couples, and tickets can be obtained through advanced sales only. Windjammer, a campus rock group, will be featured, and Gasior is trying to get together a second act of some kind for the band breaks. 
The committee is saving about $350 dollars by not using the armory and "will put a lot of that money into decorations" said the An Tostal Chairman. 
Gasior feels the "an Tostal Committee is taking great pains to insure that the Irish Wake is a success. We're going to attempt to create a suitable party atmosphere and offer an evening of fun for everyone." 

Macheca seeks new ass't for Student Affairs office 
provide an extra perspective as to the RA's. "We have a need for a Staff Reporter well as the strength of an ad­commitment of the Student Affairs by Jim Donathen ditional resource person. Staff to the philosophy we are However, Macheca emphasized trying to task," Macheca said. that he is searching for the most 
Macheca's developmental ap­
"The need for an expanded staff qualified person who will best be 
proach to discipline also calls for 
stems from the implementation of able to work as a member of the 
the involvement of hall staff in
the 'developmental' approach to Student Affairs office. "If a 
disciplinary cases. By meeting
discipline as integral to value­talented and appropriate can­
with hall staffs, the dean hopes to
oriented education," wrote Dean of didate can be found who is also a 
discuss displinary alternatives and
Students John Macheca in the woman, that would be ideal." 
receive recommendations,
Observer's Point-Counterpoint, The first step in expanding the 
"Hopefully, the final decision will
yesterday. Student Affairs Staff occured when 
be one we can all concur with" he
Macheca, the central student/ Fr. Lally became a full time 
added.

affairs staff, hall rectors, and a assistant Dean of Students· this 
An effort is being made to
group of ~ive student leaders are in I year. Because of Macheca's 
provide each applicant with an
the process of interviewing ap­concern with providing as much 
accurate picture of students' views 
plicants for an additional Assistant personal attention to the student 
of the dean of students office.
Dean of Students, preferably a i and his development as possible, 
Through each applicant's in­
woman. much of his and Fr. Lally's time is 
terview with the selected group of 
"Co-education is definitely the ' spent in getting to know the 
students and discussions with
most significant thing to happen to students they are dealing with. 
, members of the Student Affairs
the substance of Notre Dame for · Another time consummg task IS 
Office, Macheca hopes to ensure 
some time," said Macheca. The the development of good working 
that the person chosen by himself
Dean of Students feels that a relationships among the Student 
and Dr. Faccenda will understand 
woman Assistant Dean would Affairs Staff, from the Dean down 
the task he is accepting. 


Jackson blasts Nixon on Europe 
WASHINGTON <UPil--Sen. Secretary of State--echoed at the Henry M. Jackson, D-Wash., top of the administration-which Monday rebuked President Nixon have gone so far as to express a and Secretary of State Henry A. preference for dealing with the Kissinger for treating Western Soviet Union rather than our allies European allies as adversaries have been short-sighted and ill­while pursuing the Soviet Union as advised," Jackson said. friends. In a prepared speech, he "No alliance of free nations can said: "If we continue to treat our long survive the failure of 
friends as adversaries and our · leadership and responsibility that adversaries as friends we shall 
has substituted for a constructive find ourselves with a declining · European policy in WashingtOil."number of friends and an in­
Disarray in the Western Alliance 

creasing number of adversaries." is the responsibility of its mem­bership, he said, but it "falls most
"The real test of American heavily on the U.S. as the chiefstatesmanship lies in the con­candidate for leadership within the solidation of the Western Alliance, North Atlantic Treaty
in the harmonization of the 
Organization."

sometimes divergent interests of us and our allies and in the "Wholesale denunciation" from mobilization of the spirit and · Washington will not solve the resources of the free nation's he strains, he said. said. 
"France has exacerbated the 

"TJlis task cannot be ac­problems that have divided us. Let complished by public us cope with France-not by con­recrimination and invective, nor demning the whole of Europe-but eased by hints that the U.S. may by working closely with our better turn inward in a self-defeating friends in Europe." isolationism.'' 
"Skillfull and creative Jackson was critical of recent 
diplomacy will buy us more and remarks by both Nixon and 
cost us Jess than temper tantrums Kissinger in rebuking Western and appeals to isolationist sen­Europe for not cooperating with 
timents," the Washington Senator the U.S. in economic and policial 
said. But, he had criticism of Greece, "a strategically important 

matters while depending on the American nuclear defense um­
member of NATO," stating that brella and protection of over 
military rule has not created 300,000 troops in Europe. 
political stability, has brought "popular discontent caused by

The President said Europe curtailment of certain liber­
"can't have it both ways" and 
ties ... and dissention within the 

warned that Congress might be armed forces themselves." 
influenced to begin withdrawal of American forces unless a more "This situation is of profound cooperative approach was made. concern to all members of NATO," "The recent remarks of the he said. 
IJIItllllll.lliiiiiiiiiWIDIIUIIHIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIUIIIIIillalllllll 
Collegiate Jazz Festival 
Schedule of Events 
April 4, 7:30 p.m.--Symposium Library Auditorium--Free 
April 5--Stepan Center--$3.00 
7:30 p.m.--Notre Dame Jazz Band 
8:00 --University of Texas 8:30--Woodrose (Bowdoin College) 9:00--Efg's Finger Circus (notre Dame Jazz Combo) 
9:30 --Waubonsonee 10:00--Malcolm X (Chicago) 10:30--Loyola (New Orleans) 
April 6--Stepan Center--$2.00 
1:00 p.m.--College of Lake County 1 :30--West Virginia Combo 2:00--Jersey City State College 3:00--Eau-Ciaire: Big Band 3:30--Governor's State University: Big Band 4:00--0hio State University: Big Band 
April 6--Stepan Center--$4.00 
7:30 p.m.--Youngstown State 8:00--Governor's State University: Combo 8:30--Mass. Institute of Technology: Big Band 9:00--lndiana University (Bloomington): Modern Jaz:r: Quartet 9:30--Gekko Lizard, University of Illinois (Urbana) 10:00--Michigan: Big Band Followed by Judges Jam at Midnight 
All-Session tickets: $7.00 

IIHDIIIIIIIDIUIIIWDIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIUIWUIHIIU.IIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIHIIl.._ll 

~----~----~ 

-~--------~--------­
Tuesday, March 26, 1974
the observer 
~ 

.. . ..· . 
warld briefs 
BRUSSELS UPI -Speculation that the West German mark 
would be revalued sent the dollar into decline throughout 
Europe Monday. The mark rose dramatically and gold held 
steady. 
The dollar lost ground on virtually every European money 
market in Europe as speculators ditched it for European 
currencies amid persistent speculation of an upward 
revaluation of the mark. 
PARIS UPI-An official of the New York Stock Exchange 
says a "rapidly intensifying psychology of inflation that is 
difficult to break has taken hold of the United States." 
"There is little doubt now that the United States is on the 
threshold of an economic slowdown which economic historians 
may very well decide to call a recession," William C. Freund, 
vice president of the Exchange, told a France-American 
Committee luncheon in Paris. 
ST. AUGUSTINE, Fla. UPI -A cancer researcher recom­
mends Americans switch to a "more prudent" low-fat diet to 
sidestep a suggested cause of colon cancer as well as increase 
their chances of avoiding heart disease. 
Dr. Ernst L. Wynder, president of the America_n Health 
Foundation cited studies indicating that colon cancer IS far less 
common a~ong people who have low-!at diets tha~ it is amo!lg 
those who become Westernized and sw1tch to U.S. dietary hab1ts 
with high amounts of animal fats. 
nn campus taday 
7:00pm-discussion, great books discussion, room 105, carroll hall 7:00pm-lecture, "depositional anticline of deep enclronment," mark e. hennes, geology building, room 101 7:30pm-meeting, fellowship of christian athletes, grace tower penthouse 
7:30 
pm -lecture, "pullman, Illinois: an architectural ex­periment In social order, 1880-1907," prof. thomas schlereth, arch. aud. 7:30pm-lecture, "new product devolopment work," thomas e. hatch, miles laboratories, sponsored by business dept., carroll hall 

7:30 
pm -lenten series, "sin: man, death, unresponsive and rejected god," augusta hall, smc 

7:30 
pm -seminars, career opportunities for nd freshman women, farley hall chapel 


8:00 pm -meting, colloqulm on history and philosophy of sciences, "a problem In historiography of astronomy: percival lowell and 'canals' of mars," prof. michael crowe, faculty lounge, nieuwland 8:30pm -drama, plnter's "homecoming," nd-smc speech and drama depts., washington hall, reservations 28-4-4176. 



'Mr Coney 
Island' dead at age 83 
PORT CHKRLOTTE, Fla. <UPIJ -Nathan Handwerker, a poor Polish immigrant who built a hot dog landmark on New York's Coney Island, died Sunday in St. Joseph's Hospital at the age of 83. 
Known as "Mr. Coney Is­land," Handwerker was strick­en with a heart attack Saturday at his home in North Port Charlotte. He had lived in Florida since his retirement in 1972 as chairman of the board of the internationally known Nathan's Famous, Inc. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester exupt vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester (Sl.C per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
.~~\ .. ' ~ V ''~\ 'f"M~ ;.,. ~+;:::~:::~:~;~:;;:~:~::~:<:::::~>!":;::>:~..~ ... : . ~ .. ~::~::;::.:~:;=:::::::::::::::::::::.:'-.~:.;.:~:; .· 

SLC considers problems of University honor code 
by Patrick Hanifin Staff Reporter 
The SLC yesterday considered 
the problem of honor in the 
University agreeing that stan­
dards of honor must cover all three 
groups on campus: students, 
fac.ulty, and administration. 
Several members also pointed out 
the strains placed on students by 
the system and the need for a way 
of dealing with violators. 

Dr. James Danehy began the discussion by pointing out that "There is no way we can legislate an iron-clad code. What we have to do is produce some kind of statement of the community 
SMC awards three grants 
Dr. William A. Hickey, vice president for academic affairs at Saint Mary's has announced the recipients of the College's first annual Faculty Research Grants. Solely sponsored by Saint Mary's College, these grants are designed to assist faculty members in the conduct of their scholarly or creative work. 
The three grants for the 1974-75 school year were awarded to Dr. Anne Susana, assistant professor biology; Mr. James M. Raymo, assistant professor of art; Sister 
M. Jean Kiene, C.S.C., assistant professor of English. 
Susana will research the ultrastructure of tobaccoleaf plastids as they differentiate in tissue culture. She will utilize the transmission electron microscope in her study. 
Susana explained the significance of this research. "Little is known about the development aspects of plastids­yet life as we know it could not exist without the activity of these celluar entities," she said. 
Raymo's grant will be applied to using the new 3-M Color-in-Color copy machine as a creative, ar­tistic process-tool. In addition, he will experiment with this machine for spontaneous graphic ideas. 
Kiene's accepted research proposal is entited "A Critical Old­Spelling Edition of Five Representative Entertainments for Elizabeth I". Her aim is to publish a single text in English Literary Renaissance. She is also planning the publication of a book, Five Entertainments for Queen 
I. 
~· : 

7••• ... :.·: ····~··:···~·~···:·:..:-:·:~:~:==-==:::~:::::::;:~:::::::; 
standard." 
Danehy also noted that the standard must apply to everyone at the University. "That is why the SLC, representing everybody, should look at the problem," he said. 
The point was seconded by Dr. John Roos. "There is a lot of cynicism in each of the three groups that the other groups are not honorable," Roos added. He felt that the code would be a failure if each group was not convinced that the others would follow it. 
Dr. Julian Pleasents agreed that honor standards must be nearly universally accepted by the community if they are to work. "That raises the problem of what 
to do with violators. Too often 
group loyalty prevents people from 
turning others in," he said, "and 
the university needs workable 
structures to bring the problem out 
in the open." 
Danehy argued that "we must 
also create a general atmosphere 
of honor--though I know that is 
vague." 

,--~-----------------------­
handmade indian turquoise jewelry I 
bracelets -rinas -neckoieces-earrings-etc. ALL REASONABLY PRICED (great for grad. gifts or for. yourself) PH. 7833 OR DROP IN 10 LYONS AFTER 7 P.M. 

:r: 
RESERVATIONS

J-



w ND 
284-4176 Bus. Hrs. 283-7054 Show Ni tes 
Student -Faculty

SMC 
N D+ SMC Staff s po

THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 

THE HOMECOMING 
Harold Pinter's disturbing, bizarre comedy Mar. 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 at 8:30pm Washing ton HaII (Notre Dame) 
~::..:·::,:-:;-:;-;,....;;::;;.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::::::::::::==::::====~ 
"DO YOU LIVE LIFE.... OR 
:::: 

DOES LIFE LIVE YOU?" 

IDENTITY AND GROWTH­AND THE N.D. STUDENT 
a talk and discussion, with MORTON KELSEY, popular teacher and counselor. 
TUESDAY MARCH 26 SPM 
Galvin Life Science Aud. 
(a continuation of the discussion initiated by the campus ministry team appearing_ in_ the. Ob~erver.) 

Several student members, particularly Ed Rahill and Bob Connally, pointed out the strains 
the system puts on students. 
"I really wonder if honor is more than a Utopian ideal," Rahill said, "considering the heavy emphasis on academic achievement." He claimed that the curve grading system in some courses made students feel they had to cheat if others did. 
Connally pointed out that course requirements of underclassmen in areas outside their interests were also a source of cheating. "The whole problem is the expectations a person has about the system-­what he thinks it will do to him and what he thinks other people will do," he said. 
The discussion rose from the report of the University Honor Committee and the Commission created a steering subcommittee to report on the direction that further discussion should take. At their next meeting on April 8 the SLC will begin to revise the judicial code for next year. 


,,,\ .. ·.......,,\,' .. .-.,·:. 
\ 
.................
'! ....... 

Tuesday, March 26, 1974 
the observer 

Staff in final preparation 

Jazz Festival readies for opening Wed 
by Tom Russo Staff Reporter 
Ken Lee, Director of Notre Dame's Collegiate Jazz Festival, and his staff of approximately twenty students are making their final preparations for the three­day event to be held April 4-6. 
Last night Lee announced the schedule for the 20 bands and combos participating in the festival. Seven nationally known jazz musicians will judge the field. Both the performers and the judges represent a wide spectrum of jazz, from the avante-garde to the big band. 
Notre Dame's the oldest Collegiate Jazz Festival in the country--this is its 16th year. "It's also the only truly national one, now that American University in Chicago closed down their Festival 
last year," said Lee. 
Thursday night a Symposium will be held in the Library Auditorium with no admission charge. The symposium will be "Fashioned after the blindford test of Downbeat Magazine, !>elections of music will be played and the judges will comment on and ex­
plain theam," said Lee. There will also be discussions on im­provisations and the controversial jazz of Miles Davis. 
"The highlight, of course, will be the Judges' Jam Session Saturday at midnight," said Lee. "Even though these professionals won't rehea1se, a spontaneity is acheived which can't be found in 
studio recordings. Besides being a 
treat for the audience, it's an honor 
for the college musicians to play 

Freshman Year Office offers 
•

career sem1nar for 'Women 
by Joel Burian 
The Freshman Year of Studies in 
cooperation with local professional 
women is holding a series of 
seminars on professional career 
opportunities for the Notre Dame 
freshmen women, beginning last 
night and continuing through 
Thursday March 28 in Farley 
Hall's Chapel. Each seminar will 
begin at 7:30 p.m. 
The seminars are offered to 
freshmen women with the hope of 
giving information about 
professional career opportunities 
from a woman's point of view. 
Each seminar will include brief 
presentations by the professional 
women, followed by general 
discussions in the various career 
areas. 
Karen Bergwall and Paula Dawning, both counselors at the Freshman Year Office, are coordinating these first open 
career seminars tor the freshmen women since Notre Dame first 
admitted women two years ago. 

with professionals." Tickets, including an all-session 
These bands are composed of pass for $7, are on sale at the truly outstanding musicians. Lee Cultural Arts Commission Office added, "Each group had to pass a on the 4th floor of LaFortune, at 
taped auction before entering the Pandora's bookstore, and at Festival, and sever&l have done Boogie Records in downtown South professional gigs. Bend. 
"This is a special opportunity for women in aiding them with in­formation about possible careers that they wish to pursue," said Bergwall. 
Dawning added that "up to date literature and research" on professional careers has been elicited for these seminars. 
Emil Hofman, dean of the Fresh­man Year of Studies, stated "The seminars will be important and valuable to the Notre Dame fresh­men women. They are needed to allow women a chance to hear from professional career women themselves." 
Since it is that time of the year when freshmen will decide on an intent for their sophomore year, the seminars will hopefully bring more insight to the freshman woman into which career she wishes to pursue. 
The schedules for the remaining seminars and the professional 
career areas to be disciissed are as follows: 

Serving Michiana's Music Community for 25 years 

Ken Lee, Jazz Festival Director, urges people "to come out and try something different." Tickets are on sale now at various locations. 
Tuesday -March 26 Accounting, Finance, Management, Marketing,Governmental relations in Business 
Wednesday -March 7:1 Education, Government • Politics, Social Work, Law, Journalism 
Thursday -March 28 Medicine, Dentistry, Veterinary Medicine, Psychology 


WE NEED YOU 

TO MAKE IT WORK! 
Applications Now Being ·Accepted 
For These Areas Of Interest: 
Social 

Administrative 

Services Special Proiects :=$ Academic Publicity iI Cultural Arts Campus Press ~ 
~ Apply at Student U~ion Office 3rd Floor La FortunJ 
"I urge people t() come out and try something different. People here are afraid to try new things, and they often limit tehmselves to one type of music, "commented Lee. "Like all Student Union projects, the Festival is for the good of the students. I think it's almost appalling that in previous years most of our patrons have been residents of South Bend and of the over-25 group --and not Notre Dame students." 
All the judges are from New York City, but represent widely diversified areas of Jazz. Dan Morgenstern has acquired an all inclusive range as a critic and editor for Down Beat magazine. Charlie Haden. who started out in 
folk music, is now a proponent of llle avante-garde. Pianist Lonnie Smith playes what is broadly 




RARE EARTH 
and special guest Rory Gallag·her 

Athletic and

NOTRE DAME 
.:onvocation Center 

Ticket Prices: 
Tickets on sale: 

Bleachers ............ S3.50 
NOTRE DAME,A. C. C. Mon-Sat 9 to 5

Lower Arena •...... S4.50 
Robertson's South Bend & concord Milll

Main Floor ....•.•... S5.50 
St. Joseph Bilnk -ilnd branches

Loge .....•.•.........••.$5.50 
First Bank -Main office only

Platform ........•••...$5.50 
Elkhart Truth 
termed "straight ahead" jazz, traditional but by no means limited. Billy Harper represnts the Big Band tradition, while drummer Roy Haynes has played with the renowned Miles Davis, Coltrain and Parker. 
The Collegiate Jazz Festival is sponsored by the Cultural Arts Commission and has received a $1,000 grant from the National Endowment for the Arts, a government agency. 
Lee feels the students would definitely be missing something if they choose to pass up the Jazz Festival. "After all," he joked, "how would you feel if you never took your first sip of beer until you were 21, and then found out what you've missed?" 

Spa:~~a~ ~~~~·~~~~::~~t ··I ,·,·or' Call, 77·57 Until Wedne$day at 5 P.M. i~\ 
...------------------------·---1 'JK-::i-::i-'f.:=:.:~::--:;:~'*::~:.-."":;->».'VJ:~"':)'fli.:=»"*:::'».~~~~:::;,.":='$i-::-s.:::~:::::of."$i-::::"$:::::::.:·:·:·::::»:f(:&·::.::·:·:-:-:·:o:·:<-:....:·:·:·:·x-:.--·.·.,....,.............,..;.-;.:.:.-.·.~-=-=···-.··-.:-·······~:;
.....................................-..~......-~............,....................... 



THE OBSERVER 
Questions
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 NEWS: 283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief AnnMcCarry Marlene Zloza 

and Answers 
Editorial Editor Managing Editor 
LeeGentine Terry Keeney John Kloos Business Manager News Editor Advertising Manager 
leanne jacques
Tuesday, March 26, 1974 



Start 

This year's studen\. body president­vice-presidential elections have been called the most important of recent years. The outcome has also been evaluated as one of the most significant in recent years. Now the results and what they point to seem to be less than relevant, however. The students who were interested and involved, distributing posters and attending all night forums in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel before spring break seem to have lost their drive. 
For the past few days the student government and Student Union, .~s~g public advertising, have been solic1tmg applicants for all areas of student government-social, academic, ad­ministrative, services. The response to the ads and turn-out at the interviews has been less than overwhelming. This is to say the least, a disappointment to the candidates who experienced an en­thusiastic rapport with a seemingly enthralled student body. The campaign 
and election bore much hope and happy foresight for many people. That projection is swiftly fading. 
We 

The decision released today-to hold the Irish Wake in Stepan Center-is a measured risk by both the University, the HPC and the An Tostal committee. Through cooperation and com­munication, they offer a tremendous opportunity for a new tradition, and best of all, we can make it happen. 
• 
Highlighting the spring celebration has always been the Irish Wake.. In past years, held at the armory, the Wake was not only physically but also socially removed from the campus. Working within the present party guidelines to secure University consent, the An Tostal Committee of the HPC was able to gain the administrative confidence that was 
needed. It now remains for the student 

daanesbury 

a Fire 
A good student government means more than capable or charismatic leaders. It needs supporters who are willing to work, become frustrated and keep working. Talent, experience, charisma-they all help. Determination and a lot of elbow grease is all that is necessary to get the job done. 
This election started something at Notre Dame-something good, something bright and promising. This flame will soon be snuffed out with the apathy that is fast becoming typical of the ND community. 
Before you complain of being smothered by a student government that is "irresponsible" or an administration that "doesn't care", carefully consider the opportunities for real involvement offered to you. Use a little energy and you could spark a fire. 
-Ann McCarry 

Can 
body to prove that confidence true. And we can do it. 
A new bond must be made between the Irish Wake and Notre Dame students to retain this confidence. With the Wake on campus, we can have more than "good times" just by adding that touch of class found at Notre Dame. For in addition, students can positively demonstrate their willingness to work and accept respon­sibility for good times. 
As Committee Chairman Wally Gaisor,. who along with Ron Paja, has proven that willingness, said "This could serve as an important breakthrough for the social life at Notre Dame." Without a doubt, we can make it happen. · 
~Tom Drape 

Why is it that a college president resigns after only two years? Why is it that a years extensive planning and work of a special TASK Force Committee on student life gets shoved aside with a noncommittal wave of the hand? Why is it that a writing instructor gets fired for fostering the idea of academic freedom? Most important, why is it that the students don't question the decisions that affect their own academic and social environment? 
Every student at St. Mary's College is frequently reminded to act in a mature and responsible manner. It seems the concept of a mature and "responsible" has been altered to suit the stability of what would be llsheepranch. A mature person learns to question and evaluate the events that affect his own personal life and the lives of those around him. On the St. Mary's campus the meanings of "mature" and "responsible" have been twisted to mean acceptance without question. Ask yourself-'Is this the purpose of a liberal education?' 
Within only a few years a sad situation has developed atSt. Mary's College. Students have fallen victim to fear. It is not an unjustifiable fear. It is a fear that is warranted if a student wants to survive and "succeed". 
If education is to be a beneficial experience it must be an open forum of ideas. There must be room for freedom of speech and thought that is not bound by any arbitrary restrictions. This is not the case on this campus. The student's right to voice her own opinion has been grossly violated. 
The late St. Mary's Review and current The Sports Page, SMC student newspapers, have been banned from free circulation in the dining hall and dormitories. In essence, these papers were forced underground. They were forced underground by the English Depart­ment. Nothing in the St. Mary's Student Manual states that the operation of a student newspaper is illegal. It is odd that the St. Mary's Review was forcedunderground bythe same department that funded it. Since the English Department was funding the paper they had the right to control it, but to force their own project underground points to the fact that the administration might also be a victim of fear. Fear of student opinion. 
It is wrong that The Sports Page is forced underground when it is an independent paper supported only through advertisements, but as one headline reads: "We'll Hang In There!". Still, all the articles in The Sports Page lack by-lines. Staff members fear retribution from the college. 
These are not the only cases of fear happening on this campus. Some 
students have encountered threats in their relationships with faculty 
members. The use of threats is obviousl7 a misuse of power. Cases 
like these stress the fact that fear leads to limitations an an unjust 
exercise of authority. 
Could it be that when Dr. Edward L. Henry commented after his 
resignation, "I would be less than honest if I said everything fell into 
place, because it didn't. There were and are disappointments, but 
none that I can do anything about.", he was referring to the current 
stifling atmosphere at St. Mary's? 
It is hard to say if this situation ctn be remedied but it is clear that an honest effort on both the parts of the administration and the students must be made. The administration must broaden their outlook and make for a free, uninhibited exchange of ideas They are here to help, not hinder, the students in the pursuit of their goals. The students are not here to undermine their own environment. Any opinions they state or questions they ask are the purpose of seeking a better and more effective education. If the lines between the ad­ministration and students are opened up honestly then we will all surely learn what it means to be mature and responsible. 
,.arry trudeau 
!?£PEAT!N6 7Hc 70P S7l¥?Y 
'{(H)f(ROfAI 7J.I& PRES/PENT 
/QIU 8£ Fl-YING TO M/Tr5!(;5, AUIBAMA 1J /JtUV£1? A 
/1AJQI?. SPeECH!

r f 
f~A/.A&4MA! 
CAN YO// 8EL.IEV& ff?/ /(/HAT A .TOKE/ 
HA, HE&! 

tES5'N, OF Cotlf!SC, Y:4U 
HAPP!N TO . l./VE THE/a3. 
" 
the observer 
Debuting  Night  Editor:  Tim  
O'Reiley  
Debuting  Ass't.  Night  Editor:  

Tom O'Neil Layout: Bill Murphy, Dean Janke, 
J.R. Baker, Marlene Zloza Copy Editor: Gary Allieta Day Editors: Gary Allieta and Bill Brink Sports: Greg Corgan Typists: Barb Norcross, Camille Arrieh, Tom Modglin, Jeff McPherson Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz Night Controller: John Flannigan Pidures: AI D'Antonio 


------~----~~ -­

Observer News Staff Meeting Reporters, day editors, copy editors and interns. 
New members invited. 
7 pm, Room 2-D Lafortune 
The other type of Christians
Catholic whom Rahner identifies are those who possess a "wintertime peity," those who have gone "through the 
Education purgatory and hells of ~odern rationalism "and who, havmg met and struggl~d with the amb!guiti~s

Dear Editor: of existential reality, abide, m 
Some weeks ago, in a seventie.th-faith at the edge of the abyss of birthday interview, the theologian 'agno~ticism. Such Christians as Karl Rahner observed that two Gregory of Nyssa, Clement of kinds of Christians were emerging Alexandria, Francis, John of the within Catholicism. One type, of Cross and the Little Flower come whom the charismatics are a immediately to mind. Rahner prominent example, may be insists that these "wintertime" identified as the "enthusiasts." Christians have to be taken Broadly speaking, such en-seriously, however uncertain their 
thusiasts may be either liberal or faith seems to be: they are the conservative--indeed, those terms Christians with questions, rather are sometimes more misleading than answers. He concludes that it than helpful--for their enthusiasm would be an error for the Church to transcends secondary distinctions. place all of H~r ~opes in the en-
Enthusiasms generally seem to be thusiasts, and mtimates that such characterized by convictions of a choice would effect the certainty; whether o~e is c~rtain suspension, o~ce. again, ~f the that the Spirit works m particular Church's salvific dialogue With the ways through charismatic ex-world. The tested, tried, and perience, or in particular ways valuable faith of the "wintertime" through the traditional legal and Christians, and the prophetic institutional structure of the questiohs they ask, are needed to hierarchical Church, the common keep the Church in touch with conviction of certainty provides a history. measure of religious security. The discussions about the Such security, however, is Catholic character of education at sometimes gained at the expense Notre Dame, which have preoc­of history, the sense that the In-cupied so many persons ~nd carnation occurs within, pervades, eommittees this past year, might and fulfills the continuum and benefit£ rom some consideration of process of time. Conservati.ve Hahner's model. If Catholicism is enthusiasts tend to look back With defined in enthusiastic terms, then fondness toward a lost past, as if there may have been some the revelation of the Incarnation dimunition in the Catholic ended with the Greek Fathers or character of this university. the Council of Trent. Liberal Ecclesistical structures seem less enthusiasts tend to look forward to important than they once did, a~d a rootless vision of some the things we were once certam apocalyptic future, as if tradition about seem less sure. Scholarship has lost its meaning. Because of and academic excellence, with the security engendered by cer-their affinity for questioning tainty, Rahner warns that the everything, may seem to be a domination of the Church by en-distraction from the pastoral and thusiasts can lead Her back into communitari1mobjectivesofNotre the isolation of an intellectual Dame; indeed, scholarly inquiry ghetto, a ghetto whose horizo~s ~re and Catholic orthodoxy <however defined either by lawyers smgmg one chooses to define that> may Gregorian Latin or by come toto be seen as antithetical. 
charismatics speaking in tongues. The enthusistic conception of if
::::::..::::::::..::..:::::=._!.!!!..,!!:.::.::.;~:,:;;~~=.::!:=;.:.:...;;.:,....Ji4.11:1Joil~..W....,.~~~==~-l 
Catholicism may establish a false dichotomy between this in­stitution's vocation to be Catholic, and its vocation to be a University. Some may even begin to assume that a scholar's effort to lead his students "through the purgatory and hells of modern rationalism"-­"to lead ·em into the jungle and let ·em hack their own way out," as Professor Richard • Sullivan described the teacher's role at the last summer school com­mencement--is less than a moral endeavor, and that teachers mu~t do something else--preach, say--m 
order to be Christian. 
But if there is a place for ''wintertime" Christians in the Church. Christians who doubt, and question, and wonder, a~d whospeak with the world m language the world understands, there is surely no better place for their formation than a university devoted to the vocation of scholarship. In this conte.xt, .a eoncentration upon acadme1cs IS itself moral, and needs no further justification. Scholarship involves an encounter with reality, a refusal to be trapped by rhetoric, assumptions, or security; for a Christian, scholarship is therefore not "value free," but rather a call to beet and have conversation with the same world that Jesus came to 
mement-as an 
'WAS THAT WHO I THINK IT WAS??' 

nothing else--we could say less 
about Notre Dame's character as a 
"Catholic University," and use the 
silence to reflect profitably upon 
the meaning of the words 
"Catholic'' and "University." 
With less rhetoric and more 
thought, both the Catholics and the 
academics here might discover 
new wavs to put those two words 
together. cordially. 
Bob Ket·by 

Affected 
Editor: 

I read with amusement the 
recent Jetter by Ann Hawkins and 
Mary Loberstein printed on the 
letter page in Thursday's Ob­
o.;crver. What a surprise! The 
students involved just discovered 
the meaning of the phrase "en loco 
parentis," that is, if the Uni~ersity
of Notre Dame is to be considered 
our temporary parent, then we in­
turn must be considered the 
children. Under the expert 
guidance of John A. Macheca and 
~'ather James T. Burtchaell we 
ean not help but become better 
people; without their divine 
guidance we will probably stray 
and become the "moral 
troglodytes" that the Provo~t 
referred to earlier this year. SIC 
months ago 1strayed, and I will be 
forever grateful to the Dea~ of 
Students for setting me straight. 
I must ask Miss Hawkins and Miss Loberstein what makes them 
think that they are capable of throwing an orderly party? ~hy indeed is a party necessary smce there are so many other en­tertaining things to do at Du Lac? What was the theme of their party? Exactly who was to be inv~t~? More importantly, was drmkmg really secondary at this party? Why were the two girls <not women remember "en loco parenti~,") objecting to inv~tin* the "life of all campus parties, John Macheca to their get together? How could a party possibly hope to succeed w1tho~t his assistance? <By the way, he IS 
• a top rated charades player. l But, then, the Dean of Students need not be invited since he can enter any room on campus at any time he so pleases. Check your room con­tract. Anyhow, the Dean and Assistant Dean are great guys. 
Ask me, I know. I've been in conferences or trials ten times with the gentlemen since the in­famous Sorin Hall party, three times in the eight days following the SBP elections. You see. I made the mistake of speaking my mind and then losi•1g. Believe it or not! 
The Wall Street Journal wrote a glowing article about the University of Notre Dame the other day; the image is intaet. The fact that the students have to check with the Dean of Students before they blow their noses was ~ot mentioned. DuLac breathes a sigh of relief. Why don't the students themselves react? Because it won't affect them, they think. When it does, the ball game is over, because the students have no rights in jucidial procedures; they are powerless. The few rights that students have are not enforced. Some students blame Mr. Macheca; I blame student government and student apathy. Most students feel that if they play by the rules they won't be bothered. Wrong! Miss Hawkins and Miss Loberstein were bothered. And six months to the day I am still being harassed. We played by the rules <ridiculous though they seem) and got caught in the backwash of red tape. 
As for the rest of the students, I say enjoy yourselves. You have 
not been affected.  Yet.  
Hill Ob.-•·hardt  
Good  Job!  
Editor,  

We would like to thank you for the coverage you gave Junior Parents Weekend in the weeks prior to the event. The articles in the Observer did much to con­tribute to the success of the weekend. A number of people decided to come only· after the articles appeared. Since the weekend was such a great success, we weant you to know that the 
Obst>r\'er contributed to this success and we really appreciate it. Thanks again. 
The Junior Parent Weekend 
Committt>e -· _ 
. . ~ ' 
l... ·.' ···.·,·... ·... · ...·....
itie ·c;.b'5~r-v:~;r ·Tuesday, March 26, 1974 

Kelsey delivers lecture on human emotion 
by Tom Russo Staff Reporter 
Rev. Morton T. Kelsey, a Presbyterian minister and Assistant Professor in Religious Education and Jungian Analyst at Notre Dame, delivered a lecture on "Psycosomatic Medicine: Body, Mind, and Emotions" before a capacity crowd at the Library auditorium Sunday evening. His talk was one in a series of lectures sponsored by the Notre Dame Pre­Med Society. 
Kelsey's basic question was: "Do emotions, including religious ones, have any effect on the human body?" 
In proving that they undoubtedly do, Kelsey gave an hour talk and presented a film and several slides !)n cancer research, followed by short question and answer session. 
In his personal, humorous style, Kelsey first traced the history which has led to the modern separation between medicine and the Church. The five steps he emphasized were: 

-the Medieval change from the "Sacrament of Healing" to the "Sacrament of the Extreme Unc­
tio~t'~~ decision of the 1215 Lateran 
Council which required priests to 
visit the sick before doctors. 
-the later Papal Bull which, in 
effect, forbade dissection of human 
corpses, which was meant to curb 
abuses during the Crusades. 
-another Papal Bull which for­
bade clerics to cut the human 
body.. 
-the burning at the stake of two 
gifted physicians by the Papacy 
Serves as prosecution witness 



Dean implicates Mitchell 
NEW YORK <UPI) -For­mer White House Counsel John 
W. Dean III testified Monday former Attorney General John 
N. Mitchell asked him to get the Securities and Exchange Commission to hold up aspects of its investigation of financier Robert L. Vesco. 
Dean also testified former Commerce Secretary Maurice Stans told Mitchell on one occasion his name would not be connected with a $200,000 secret contribution from Vesco to President Nixon's 1972 election campaign. 
Dean, star witness at last year's Senate Watergate hearings, took the stand Mon­day as a key prosecution witness in the federal court trial of Mitchell and Stans on charges of attempting to impede the SEC investigation in return for the contribution. 
The two, who managed 

SU holding interviews 
by Jim Donatben Staff Reporter 
Interviews for Student Union positions will be held Wednesday, March '1:1, Thursday, March 28, announced Student Union co­director Pat Burke. Names are presently being accepted for social services, cultural arts and academic .commissioners,' con­troller, assistant director, and staff positions. Burke urges in­terested students to call the Student Union at 7757 or drop by the office in LaFortune. 
There is an ample supply of staff positions, according to Burke. 
"If people want to work on the staff, we are more than willing to find them something to do." Burke said. "Ifsomeone wants to work in one comm1s1on area or on one special project (i.e., Mardi Gras, An Tostal) we'll find a place for him," he added. 
Students who contact the Student Union Office to reserve an in­terview time will be asked to state the area of activities in which they prefer to work. Burke and the present commisioner of that area will conduct the interview. 

Nixon's re-election campaign, are on trial on a federal grand jury indictment charging con­spiracy and perjury. 
Just before the 1972 election, Dean said, Mitchell attempted to get SEC Chairman William Casey to postpone taking depositions from Vesco em­ployes because "it was another example of political harass­ment" designed to embarrass Nixon. 
Dean quoted Mitchell as saying there was "no need for this to come out." 
Vesco and 41 associates later were charged by the SEC with civil fraud for the alle~d looting of $224 million from a mutual fund corporation. The financier is now a fugitive from 
U.S. prosecution in the Baha­mas. 
Dean said Mitchell was concerned in October, 1972, that his initials,"J.M.", were next to the sum of $200,000 on a contribution Jist, which should, by law, be reported to the Office on Federal Elections. He said he was present in Mitchell's office when Stans told Mitchell, "It shouldn't be a problem." 
"He indicated that the contribution wouldn't be on the list when it was filed,' Dean testified. An official of the election office testified earlier in the trial that the contribution never was reported. 
Later that October, Dean met with Stans and Mitchell at the Metropolitan Club in New York, he said. 
He described Mitchell as "very disturbed" about the SEC calling Vesco aides to testify on the eve of the election when "it could come out about the cash contribution and Edward Nixon's connection." 
Edward Nixon, the presi­dent's youngest brother, helped Vesco's secret campaign contri­bution, according to previous testimony, and Donald Nixon Jr., the president's nephew, is employed by the financier. 
Dean said he called Casey on behalf of Mitchell but Casey said it would be difficult to postpone the depositions. 
"I called Mitchell and told him 'John, I don't know, whether we are going to have any luck with Casey'," Dean testified, adding he did not find out whether the subpoenas were put off. 
According to previous wit· nesses they were not, but Vesco aides refused to testify on grounds of possible self incrimi­nation. 
Dean also quoted Casey as 
telling him to tell Mitchell that 
Vesco is a "bad man" and 
"Don Nixon Jr., shouldn't be 
hanging around with him." 
It was the beginning of the 
sixth week of the trial and 
Dean, who pleaded guilty last 
October to impeding the Sena­
te's Watergate investigation, 
was the 25th witness. 
The previous 24 government 
witnesses had failed to back up 
the government's charge that 
Mitchell, who ran the Nixon 
campaign committee, and 
Stans, chief of the campaign's 
finances, attempted to impede 
the SEC probe of Vesco. 
Casey testified flatly last 
week that neither defendent 
ever asked him to fix the case. 

and by Calvin. 
Thus, he continued, science came to think that "only matter counted." This attitude, however, was reversed by the influence of Freud and a "classic book by Dr. Florecne Dunbar in 1935 entitled Emotion and Bodily Changes." 
Finally, said Kelsey, physicians and psychologists realized that "emotions affect resistance to disease". This resistance is based on lymphocyte cells. These cells, he explained, attack the ever­present disease cells in the body, such as strep throat or cancer. Over-active lymphocytes attack the body itself, and can lead to arthritis <as theorized by Dr. Christian Barnard). 
Kelsey proposed that "a set of satisfactory goals leads to a proper balance of lymphocytes, and thus good health." 
He then listed on a blackboard seven symptoms of tension caused by the sympathetic nervous system. These symtoms, which include high blood pressure, high pulse, and a greater tendancy for blood clotting, "can be caused by fears you don't even know you have. These symptoms are an infallible indication that someplace there is fear or anxiety." 
Kelsey proceeded to give other examples of emotionally related symtoms and dlseases in .tbe cardio-vascular system, the gastro-intestinal system, and even in warts, which he said can be cured as much by a placebo as by surgery. 
"The three emotions which cause the most damage are fear, anger, and depression. They cause the greatest portion of illnesses," he said. 
"The solution l.o avoid these destructuve emotions is to develop fellowships where you can con­verse at any level, to have a basic sense of intimacy and value and to have some ultimate meaning in the universe around you," concluded Kelsey. 
The film and slides concerned cancer research done at the University of Southern California which depicted the· roles of specialized cells, particularly lymphoctyes in the lungs. Time lapse photography and immense magnifications were used to film these functions. 
In the quesuons and answer session, Kelsey maintained that the full creative growth and happiness of man can occur only 
in groups, and that religious groups are some of the very few social organizations which concern themselves with total human development. 

THE OBSERVER 
NOW HIRING FOR THE POSITION OF BUSINESS MANAGER 
* APPLICANTS MUST BE ACCOUNTANCY MAJORS * 
send resume to editor, box q, notre dame, before april 3. 


T•>m McMahon General Agent Bill Pumphrey Terry Billger 
'learafter \'Car~ semester I after semester, the CollegeMaster' from Fidelit\' Union Life has oc-cn the most acccptl'<L most popular plan on campuses all over America. 
Find out why. 
(all the Fidelity Union CollegeMaster·· .Field Associate m your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 


---------------------------------------~~~-------~~ 
---------------------~----------------------­
J  
Tuesday, March 26, 1974  the .obs.erv.e.r 7  1  
Mrs. Virginia Black  
Pro-life candidate to oppose Brademas  

by Judy Peterson Mrs. Black aescribes herself as a amateur at politics, Mrs. Black's donations. A finance committee is Staff Reporter "life· long Republican" with "no husband and campaign manager, presently being established to political record or ties." She Dr. Anthony Black, was research oversee the distribution of the 
Mrs. Virginia E. Black, head of believes this will enable her to director for Donald Newman's the Religion Department at better serve her constituents two unsuccessful Congressional Marion High School, has an­because she can give them more bids. nounced her intention to run for individualized attention. 
Funding for the campaign will congresswoman from Indiana's Although she is a self-avowed come entirely from publicThird District. 

KSU shootings re-exalllined 
CLEVELAND <UPI> -The federal grand jury re-examin­ing the killing of four Kent State University students by Ohio National Guard troops during a 1970 antiwar demon­stration was expected to reach its final conclusions by mid­week, the head of the U.S. Justice Department's Criminal Division said Monday. 
Robert A. Murphy said at the re-convening of the jury follow­ing an almost three-week recess, "We are meeting today to discuss a couple of items that have been hanging since we last recessed. We expect to wrap up the investigation probably by Tuesday or Wed­nesday." 
The federal grand jury was impaneled last Dec. 18. 
In 34 days of meetings, it heard testimony from more than 150 witnesses, beginning with a consultant who testified on the accuracy of a model of the shooting scene and ending with former Gov. James A. 
450,000 kids are drunks 
DETROIT (UPI) An estimated 450,000 American children are drunks, according to an expert on alcoholism, and many of them are taught by their parents. 
"It is sad but true that we live in a drinking society and that drinking often is taught as a social grace to children," John Heiner, executive director for the Detroit area of the National Council On Alcohol, said Sunday. 
Many parents set examples by drinking themselves, he said. 
Others, he said, encourage their children to drink in · the belief that alcohol is preferable to drugs. 
"While we agonize over the possibility that our children might become drug addicts," Heiner said, "we pay scant attention to the possibility that they stand a far better chance of joining the nation's nine million alcoholics and problem drinkers." 
He cited a survey of 589 high school students in Michigan's Washtenaw County. It indicated more than half of the students first drank at home in the company of adults. 
The survey also indicated Washtenaw teen-agers not only prink more frequently, but drink harder than an earlier survey showed in 1970, Heiner said. 
In the latest survey, 20 per cent of the students said they most frequently down five or more drinks at a time. Only 12 per cent reported drinking that heavily in the 1970 survey. 
Rhodes, who ordered tne National Guard onto the cam­pus following property damage during antiwar demonstrations in May, 1970. 
On May 4, 1970, Guardsmen killed four Kent State students and wounded nine other persons in a barrage of gunfire. 
A special state grand jury investigated the shootings and· indicted 25 persons, most of them students. In a report, that 
panel exonerated the Guard of 
any blame in the shootings and 
criticized the "permissive"

attitude of university adminis-for indictment. 
Shumate faces difficult task in making choice 
(o••"•••• 1,.m pag.SJ 
trators. 

Families of some of the shooting vicitms had sought since then for a federal probe of the shootings. The proposal had been rejected by then At~rney General John N. Mitchell. 
Seven Guardsmen called before the federal panel refused to testify after receiving a recitation of their rights. Attorn ey s for the Guardsmen 
said they_ regarded th~ r~ad~ngof _the ~Ights a~ an . IndicatiOn their chents might be targets 
$35.35 which has been collected to date. 
According to Mrs. Black, the abortion issue is the main topic which prompted her to file. She says "I am a pro-life candidate" and advocates a passage of the "right to JifP." amendment, along 
with f;overnmental restrictions on pornography within "the spirit of the Constitution." 
In commenting on the three 
main issues cited by the in-
cum bent, John Brademas, Mrs. 
Black offered the following 
statement concerning the energy 
cns1s: "I think John Brademas 
contributed somewhat to this by 
completely ignoring the Arabs in 
favor of the Israelis. 
"With resoect to Watergate and 
impeachment she stated that 
"Watergate is part of the whole 
corruption of the country. I wouid have to say that I have not read 
anything yet that would warrant 
impeachment." In speaking of 
inflation, Mrs. Black pointed out 
that "there has not been a law ·passed in 20 years that a Democratic Congress has not passed. Whatever laws have been put into effect are the result of twenty years of Democratic legislation." 
Mrs. Black cited her years as a high school English and Religion teacher as qualifications for congresswoman because she is associated daily with the people and can feel the pulse of the community this way. 
Besides teaching, Mrs. Black is a writer who is listed in Who's Who of American Women and has published numerous articles in educational journals. Her husband is an associate history professor at St. Mary's College. The Black's have four children and have lived in the South Bend area for twenty 

But John Shumate goes so much farther than this. He is a very . ·• ···· reflective person. His eloquence is impressive, and the big factors af-~\\\ \\1\ fecting his life are not what pro team he'll go with, or what everybody :.·::.·~ wed & thurs advance sales -~=.·~:.· 
expects of him, or even the money. John Shumate is concerned with . people; and anybody who condemns him, whatever his decision, is ~\\1 call the -playhouse for info :\.1\.: 
looking past the real John Shumate. ~ "All my parents have had to live for is that their children could grow up ~::..·.·~-·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
and make something of themselves. They could never provide us with money and expensive materialistic things, but the greatest thing they gave me is faith and confidence in God. That has been the tool and in­
CLASSIFIED ADS
strument to help me conquer a lot of things. When I was sick that's what 
years. ________ -.................... 

;~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::».».::::::::::.:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:;'£ 
11i Th PI h :::: 
~: e ay 0 use :::: 
~:1:. \:.1:.1:.;:. 
~ 

~~~ 525 N. Hill \\l 
~=: Live Entertainment Wed. thru Sat. :::: 
:~= ~ Tues. Nlte -Keg Nlte -Drafts 20' ~ 
BLOODROCK & LOW RENT i ==== 
with black vinyl top, automatic
"What parents must under­
THE STUDENT IN MIND " transmission, power steering
stand, is that this drug-alcohol 
AM radio. with rear speakers,
call 232-5853 for rental information or visit crestwood
-is like other drugs, psycholog­bucket seats, excellent con­ically and physiologically addic-management company 3012 east edison road, south 
i. dition. -~.~5 ~~~~,-?.1!1 qrR~-2461, .., •• tiv,e," ,He.ln~r ,sajd.; , . . · · · bend· '•,aft,r, ~. ;l ~ ,.,., • <\ •, •, 11 '..~ ~ •, ', •.,.~--, \~ :~•, ., '· 
' J • , •• ' '• t ., . , ~ , f'l t, t, ~ ~~ ';: , t' :r. '· f • 
. ' . -..--------·­
pulled me through. And when I'm on the court I'd ask God to give me the ability to lead the team and to have us be as one. 
WANTED "Coming from tl-te ghetto where our income was low, and where 
everybody had to WL ·k, I learned a lot. When I was six years old I started 
11\/arit to sub-let apt. for summer. Portage or Turtle
shining shoes because we all had to work together as one. I think that the 
Creek. Call 3816.
hardest thing for you to do is to have a relationship with people together 
Two guys need two girls to 
as one unit, doing things for each other. This is the most important thing 
share house in sept. Call Mike 
1100. "If I didn't have a basketball life I'd dedicate my life to humanities. I want to finish my academics at Notre Dame and to use my different 
I've learned. 

2 housemates for '74, 3 blocks
educational and environmental experiences to deal more effectively with 
from campus. Call 4559. 
the kind of life I've been associated with. I grew up in a ghetto, went to 
Open now: Part-time job, 20
one of the richest schools in the country -I've been on both sides of the 
hrs, 5 afternoons a week. $2.09
fence. I've seen things that a lot of social scientists haven't seen. I think 
per hour. Call 6549 or 6650.
because of my particular situation I could be an inspiration to people, 
FOR SALE
especially little .kids, and teach them to go after their goals. It would qualify me to go out and do what I want do do after I play basketball. 
'68 Pontiac GTO, air­
conditioning, power steering
"Basketball is just a means to an end." 

and brakes, rear defrost. Call 272-9198. 
And for John Shumate, whether it's pro or college, that's how it will 
always be. 

Pioneer 626 receiver in ex­cellent condition. Call Jim 
1487.

NOW RENTING 
Tandberg 9000X tapedeck,
c one and two bedroom 
$525.; Bose 901 speakers with stands, $450; All pratically
A 
new. 272-8782.
furnished apartments 
Advent 201 cassette deck, 10
Featuring: 

months old, excellent con­dition. $225.00 Call 8436.
M + SWIMMING POOL 

Steros for sale, receivers,p + COMMUNITY BUit.DING turntables, tapedecks, most brands available 25 percent off. 
+ 2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM Call 8792, 8436, 8437. 
u APARTMENTS Just in from Santa Fe, New Mexico: Handmade Indian 
s 
+ AIR CONDITIONING Turquoise Jewelry. A wide selection of bracelets, rings, 
earrings, neckpieces, etc. All
+ DISHWASHER 

reasonably priced and of the highest quality. Drop in 10
+RANGE 

Lyons or call 7833 
v 
+ REFRIGERATOR 

Factory wired all solid state 
dynaco stereo preamplifier
+ GARBAGE DISPOSAL (Pat -4) and amplifier (120) used 111> years. Replacement
I + TENNIS COURT cost $400 plus deckes at $225. Phone 7046. 
+ LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM 
Koss headphones and extensionE CAMPUS! $25. Call 1480.
"APARTMENTS WITH 
Dodge 67 2-door hardtop yellow
w 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost blue denim jacket near circle Tuesday. Call Dan 8288. 
PERSONALS 
My pilot-
Well, that's life! 
Flap those wings and get that beak back in the clouds. 
Don't let life dump on you­dump on it first. Your Co-pilot 
John Vannie thinks dirty thoughts. 
"Steve and Marianne sitting in a tree... " -The Statue is alive and well and living in the snow! 
Bob Ackerman just had a baby and he wants everyone to congratulate him. 
NOTICES 
Need ride to Ball State this Friday. Call Mark 3661 Need ride to Ball State this Friday. Call Mark 3661. 
GRADUATION SPECIAL: 
May 17-24  Nassau  Bahamas  
$200.00  Includes:  departure  
Notre  Dame  to  airport  

Fligght (Open Bar) anand hotel. Call 288-6182. 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO: TERM PAPERS, MANUSCRIPTS, ETC. CALL: 233-5332. 
Wanted--athLete's body. Call 4020. 
Will the S.O.B. who took ND hockey tacket from Hinga's party Sill. night please return to 825 ND Ave. or call 234-4961. 
CJF April4-6. Need stage crew Free admission for those who work. Call CAC office. 3797 to sign up. 
....... "..... 
the observer Tuesday, March 26, 1974 

For 'Shu', it's a tough decision 
by Greg Corgan Sports Editor 
John Shumate approached the microphone to a roaring round of ap­plause from the 1100 or so people seated in the audience. The scene was last Tuesday night's basketball banquet, and the "big Shu" had just been awarded the Field Goal Percentage trophy for his efforts during the '73-74 season. 
He reached the podium and after a few customary acknowledgements he began to speak about a topic of which there seemed at least a fair amount of interest. 
"I know," he began, "that everybody is wondering and asking me questions about whether or not I'm going to stay here at Notre Dame next year, and I feel that this is a good time to try and clear things up." · 
At this time Shu began to smile and the crowd sensed a favorable verdict. Shu tried to continue but the crowd began to voice their ap­proval. He waited for them to quiet down and finally after two more such displays of enthusiasm, he continued. 
"I just want to take this opportunity, "he said, "to say that 'I don't know."' With this, Shu turned to his left, a smile on his face a foot long as if everything was just a game, and took his place at the head table. 
The audience obviously wondered about John's teasing antics, but the big center from Elizabeth, New Jersey, wasn't just fooling around. He was dead serious. And he had reason to be-simply because there are so many things for him to consider. 
"My mother, father and sisters are a big factor influencing my decision," said Shu. "I went home after the season and we talked about it quite a bit. We're not one of the richest families in the world, both my parents have to work, and I want to be able to help them the best I can. One of the biggest reasons I came to college was so that after I was through, I would be able to help my family. 
"But there is the other side of it also, and that's my school and my teammates. I don't want to let anybody down. All the guys on the team have told me that whatever decision I make they'll be behind me all the way. They're not just concerned for themselves and I respect them for that." 
Gary Brokaw may have spoken for the whole team when he said," I would like Shu to stay for the benefit of the program, but his goals were to play pro ball and to get a degree, and now he can do both. If he gets what he wants, I think he should go, but he has to make the decision concerning what's best for himself. Whatever he decides, though, we'll back him all the way." 
So far John Shumate has achieved his first goal, that of a degree. Despite some misinformed opinion to the contrary, Shu is not a hardship case. He has more than the necessary credits to graduate with a degree in sociology although because of the year he was sick he is still athletically eligible for another season. Therefore, regardless of his decision, he can graduate with his class this coming May. 
"I've worked hard athletically and academically," added Shu, " and I've prolonged my decision just so that I can look at everything ob­jectively so that I can make the right decision. 
"I've dedicated myself to Notre Dame and I think I'm counting on my experience here to help me make my decision, and no matter what I choose, I feel that everyone here will be right behind me." 
Nonetheless, Shumate has been the target of many Notre Dame "friends" pleading with him to stay. John appreciates the concern, but finds it all pretty narrow. 
"They think they're doing it for my best interests but they're not. People are putting unnecessary pressure on me. I wanted to try to ob­jectively weigh all the circumstances. If it was up to me I'd come back to college, but I have my family to consider first, Notre Dame second and myself third. 
"Notre Dame was Notre Dame before I was ever born, and it'll be Notre Dame after I leave. I love my family and I love Notre Dame. I could never even begin to pay this school back for what it's given me. But I love my family, and my mother has been working since she was nine years old. She dedicated four more years of her life so that I could come here and I owe a lot to her. I'd like to see her be able to stay home and raise the rest of her children." 
John Shumate appreciates people, sincere people, and that goes beyond 


The big question now seems to be whether or not John Shumate will be hitting jump shots in the pro 
ranks or back at Notre Dame. 
his own personal friends and teammates. "The student body body here is just great," said the big center. They want me to come back,. but I know that if they sit down and think about it, they'll be behind anything I do. That's the type of relationship we have 
here. I've given the best I have, and I know they'll never let me down. 
"I've always wanted to tell the students how grateful I am for what they've given me. They helped me and they helped the team to achieve the goals we set out to achieve. I'll never forget their support as long as I live." 
When it comes to playing basketball, John Shumate does it all. He doesn't overlook a thing. And that's how it's been as he considers the future. 
"I thought about coming back and trying to win a National Cham­pionship, but I think the team is going to reach that goal regardless whether I'll be here or not. They know they'll always have my support. 
"I'm also concerned with the academic aspect of things. I'm a sociology major and I'd like to take more courses in psychology an­ticipating a further career in social psychology. I also need about four more courses to double major in economics and I have to say this will influence my decision. 
"It's really an insult to me when people overlook the academic nature of an athlete's situation and just call them a 'jock.' I've gone through all the academics like everybody else plus two summer sessions. Besides that I've done pretty well at basketball, and it really bothers me when I'm referred to as a jock." 
And the "big Shu" views the idea of preparation for pro-ball realistically. 
"Cqming back another year would help me for professional basketball if I played outside facing the basket. But right now I feel that I'm already as good as I can be underneath." 
(continued on page 7) 
Ruggers split on the Emerald Isle 
by Bob Kissel 
Cr.edit the Notre Dame rugby team with celebrating St. Patrick's Day in a manner certainly befit­ting any true Irishman. The Irish ruggers spent St. Paddy's day in Dublin amidst the massive throngs of people and the city's traditional parade. 
But the Irish ruggers' main purpose of their Ireland tour was not to see the beautiful Irish countryside, its castles, or spend money on souvenirs. The purpose of the Ireland tour was to play rugby--and play rugby with the best in Ireland. 
"We hoped to schedule the best teams in Ireland," explained team captain Tom Masenga. "Our realistic goal was to leave Ireland with a split. .I believe our squad is among the best in collegiate rugby and a favorable showing in Ireland would show the students and the athletic department the excellence of our program." 
The rugby team accomplished their pre-tour goals with great success. Rugby in Ireland em­ploys much the same a~~;e development program that American football uses. 
This makes for an all-round devolopment of the skills and tricks necessary to win in rugby. The Irish played two major city club teams, the Bohemians of Limerick and Tralee, and two of the best college rugby teams in all Ireland, the universities of Cork and Dublin. The four games' wrapups are: 
Notre Dame 6 -Bohemians 0 N.D.'s first contest was won on a try by Larry Casey and the con­version by veteran Ed O'Connell. N.D.'s physical attack was ap­parently enough to overcome Limerick's better passing and finesse. The "B" squad lost to Old Crescent of Limerick 9-8, with Bill Sweeney and John Mcintyre scoring tries for the Irish. 
Tralee 22 -Notre Dame 12 
Notre Dame's physical game was no stranger to the farmers playing for Tralee. Notre Dame was beat physically as well as stylishly. Rich Conti notched a try and Ed O'Connell converted two penalty kicks to account for the Irish offense. · 
Cork -24 -Notre Dame -14 

The Irish ruggers dropped their second game on a rain soaked field in Cork. The game was close for most of the contest, but the ·ex­ceptional kicking ability of Cork prevailed in the end. Pete Frantz and Joe Hafner combined for three tries for the Irish scoring. The "B" squad lost to Cork "B" 14-4, with Chris Patterson tallying for the Domers. 
Notre Dame -14 -Dublin --11 

The final win for the Irish was pounded out on a muddy field in Dublin, over the best collegiate rugby team in all Ireland. 
It was through sheer emotional desire that the ruggers overcame a deficit with five minutes remaining. The winning try was scored by Joe Hafner, with Bill Sweeney and Ed O'Connell providing the other Irish scores. The "B" team lost to Dublin "B" 14-4, with Dave Ward providing the lone Irish points. 
Whert asked how the Ireland tour helped the play of the rugby team, team captain Masenga responded, "our backs improved grearly, increasing their ball-handling and passing skills. We also learned tricks of the game which cannot be learned except for years and years of play.'' 

The rugby club's spring schedule is no pushover. The basic ob­jective for the team this spring is to go undefeated, as they did during the fall. Their season begins this Saturday against Ohio State behind Stepan Center. 
"Ohio State is one of the best teams I saw at the nationals last fall," offered Masenga. "Both teams will be playing all-out for the possession of the series silver cup.'' 
Other opponents this spring include Big Ten champ Illinois, traditional rival John Carroll, mid­American conference winner Ohio University, and the Chicago Lions, who the Irish knocked off to claim the Midwest title. 
All these teams will be gunning to knock off the undefeated Irish­but after all-that's nothing new in sports around the Golden Dome. 
Interhall entry deadll·ne toda·y 
The Office of lnterhall Athletics has announced a cluster of team and individual spring sport tournaments, all with entry deadlines set for today, March 26th. 
Four tennis events head the list of spring-time activities, but the IH office has also scheduled one baseball and three softball tour­neys for play during the upcoming months. 
The four tennts tournaments include: 
A women's singles tourney, which will be of the open variety, and which will include no classification of players. 
A men's singles tourney, which will include both open and novice classes. 
A grad student-faculty tourney. 
And a mixed doubles tour­nament, which is open to Notre Dame students only. 
The baseball elimination tour­nament will be played by teams whose players all represent the same dorm. There may be a minimum of 14 and a maximum of 18 players on each squad, and rosters should be submitted to the interhall office in the ACC(c-4) or to the central issue room in the ACC. All equipment for this event will be furnished by the IH office. 
The softball tournaments which have been planned include: 
A 12-inch tourney, which will be played by teams whose players represent the same hall. The roster limits for this tournament have been set at a minimum of 12, and a maximum of 16. 
A grad school softball tourney, 12-inch, which will be played by teams whose players must represent the same department. The only roster limit for this event is a 12-man minimum. 
And a women's softball tourney, which willl be played under the same rules and limitations which govern the men's event. Equip­ment for this softball tourney, and the other two, will be issued by the IH office. 
For further information or in­structions regarding any of these events, call the Interhall Office at 6100. 








