---------------~-------------------------, 

On The Inside 
Homecoming 
... page 6 
Julian Bond 
... page 3 
yo!. IX, No. 20 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 

HPC to assume lund collection for United Way 
by Bob Radziewicz Staff Reporter 
Responsibility for this year's United Way campaign will be undertaken by the Hall President's CQUllcil, according to Chairman Bob Howl. 
Last year the United Way campaign was conducted by a campus-wide drive through the mail. In co-Qrdinating this year's student drive therrough the HPC, Howl expressed hopes for a more direct involvement on the student level and an even greater success in fund-raising. Tom Suddes, regional director of development for the United Way, ad­dressed last night's meeting, explaining that he felt that the HPC was "the best body to co-Qrdinate this year's drive." 
"The goal we're shooting for this year from student con­tributions is $2,000.. ," Howl explained. "That comes out to something like 40 cents per person. The idea is not to take money out of the students' pockets. In fact, I look at it as a challenge to be creative and innovative in fund-raising for the United Way." 
Howl then went on to suggest selling shamrocks or spon­soring hot dog stands at home football games as a potential means in raising funds. 
In other business, the HPC chairman opened the discussion for consideration of a more legalized judicial system. Suggested avenues of discussion include having a law student available to accompany any student who has been brought before a judicial board. This student advocate would advise the accused of his legal rights. Howl decided to table further discussion until next week's meeting, when John Mazza, now a first-year law student who had served on the University Appeals board as an undergrad last year, will address the HPC. 
Bill McLean, student ombudsman, announced to the hall presidents that "efforts are now underway" to set up an off­campus shuttle system throughout South Bend. A final decisison is expected in the next day or two, according to Mc­Lean. If approved, the shuttle service is scheduled to begin after Friday night's pep rally. 
Howl then told the council that the 1974 HPC hall im­
provement budgets will be reviewed at the next meeting. He 
stressed that budget requests should reflect "honest, 
legitimate expenditures" and that no money would be 
allocated for hall parties or banquets. 
Howl estimated that the funds for each hall would be ap­
proximately $400 although he noted that consideration would 
be made according to the individual needs of the hall. 
Final business included an announcement that Dillon, 
Howard, andMorrisseyhalls are sponsoring a free concert in 
Stepan .. Center following Friday night's pep rally. 
To hearing office 
Wectnesday, September 25, 1974, 
I 
'We've co.me a long way' 


Powell speaks of progress 
By Matt Yokom Powell, who was once general counsel of the CivU Staff Reporter Rights Commission, was appointed chairman of the EEOC this January. He pointed out that a 1972 John H. Powell Jr., chairman of the Equal Em­amendment to the 1964 act gave broad powers to his ployment Opportunity Commission, spoke in the Notre commission to eradicate causes of job discrimination 
Dame Law School Lounge yesterday on the progress based on race; religion, sex and national origin.
that his commission has seen in the last nine years. Referring to inequalities that minorities experienced In recalling the days when job abilities and training before the 1964 Civil Rights Act, which created the were "particulary irrelevant if you were a woman or EEOC, Powell stated, "If we view progress in terms of black," Powell said consideration of these where we were a little over ten years ago, I must say qualifications are a reaction to the enforcement of we've come a long way." minority employment rights. 
"But while there is a considerable amount of 
hypocrasy in the concern now being expressed for job 
qualifications, it is progress," Powell stated. 
In discussing the purpose of the EEOC, Powell said "America's most important asset is its' multi-cultural, multi-racial people. When everyone has an opportunity to compete anywhere their abilities and aspiration· carry them, this nation will truly deserve to be called the 'Leader of the Free World.' 
In this spirit, Powell asserted that he is determined to make the "Commission the cutting edge in the national effort to eliminate employment discrimination. 
Powell remarked upon a variety of other subjects, ranging from Indians to the Nixon Administration. Powell felt that the Indians are the most oppressed minority group in the country. "Not enough has been done by any agency," including the EEOC. However Powell said that a task force is being planned to in­vestigate their employment situation. 
When asked about the effect of the Nixon Ad­ministration on the civil rights policies of the provious two presidents, Powell said although he had publically disagreed with the former president's position "on bussing and other things, we cannot say that the Nixon administration, at least in some very important aspects. turned back their oolicies.'' 
Under Nixon and a Democratic majority in Congress the EEOC budget increased $39 million and gained direct enforcement authority. Powell 'added that the jurisdiction of the agency now covers 75 per cent of the work force, or 63 million employees. 
Powell was introduced to the crowd of about fifty people by Howard Glickstein, Director of the Notre Dame Center on Civil Rights. The Center on Civil 
John Powell: America's most important asset is its Rights sponsored Powell's visit to the campus. 
multi-cultural, multi-racial people. 



Hall Judicial Council seen as alternative 

McGinty: The first thing we have to do is develop hall judicial boards in each and every hall. · 
By Bill Gonzenbach Staff Reporter 
The Student Government Judicial Office is developing a Hall Judicial Coun<;il to act as an ad­visory group and as an alternative disciplinary hearing office for university disciplinary violations. Brian McGinty, Student Govern­ment Judicial Coordinator, outlined the development and goals of the new council yester­day. 
"The first thing we have to do is develop hall judicial boards in each and every hall," said McGinty. The Hall J-Board would elect a chairman Who would be the hall's representative to the Hall Judicial Council. 
"Some ·of the halls have very good J-Boards, but in other halls they are falling apart. Some of the rectors and assistant rectors just don't want them and in some halls, the J-Boards have been left out of the hall's constitution. We need good hall J-Boards before we can do anything," McGinty declaired. 
Once formed, the Council comprised of the hall represen­tatives and the Judicial Coor­dinator would be a unified group to speak to the Administration about disseusion or needed change in the judicial process. 
"If I went to the administration by myself to complain about the judicial process I would be laughed out of the place;' McGinty jested. 
"To start, the Judicial Council would act like the Hall Presidents' Council. It would have no real power or acting authority. We would simply be a student representative in judicial mat­ters," said the judicial coor­dinator. 
"However, we hope to prove we 
can handle problems, so that 
possibly in the spring we could ask 
the Student Life Council to rewrite 
the judicial code to give us more 
authority," McGinty observed. 
The new authority would 
hopefully include the power to act 
as an alternative disciplinary 
hearing group. 
"When a student is charged with the violation of a university regulation, he has the alternative of seeing Mr. Macheca, Dean of Students or Dr. Facenda, General Counsel. We hope that in the future the Judicial Council will act as a third alternative· for discipline hearings," McGinty said. 
"The student has a poor record in university disciplinary action. The Dillon and Lewis Hall in­cidents are examples of this. We hope to aid the student as an ad­visory council or as a third alternative for disciplinary hearings," said McGinty. 
McGinty noted that last year students came to him after a decision had been reached on their case. "It's too late for them, I can only really help before the case is heard," he said. 
"Some disciplinary problems are personal and they are best handled by the coun8eling of Mr. Macheca and Mr. Facenda. However, there are students who need aid and we want to offer 
them advise and a tntra alter­native in disciplinary hearing," said McGinty. 

----------------------~--------------­
the observer Wednesday, September 25, 1974
2 
warld 

briefs 

ADIS ABA -(UPI) -The Emir of Abu Dhabi, ruler of a major oil­exporting country, said Tuesday Arab producers would be willing to cut oil prices if western nations reduce the prices of foodstuffs and manufactured products. The statement, the most concrete reaction so far to President Ford's effort to talk oil prices down, was made by Sheikh Zayed ben Sultan, elected ruler of the United Arab Enirates and the hereditary emir of oil-rich Abu Dhabi. 
WASHINGTON UPI -Vice Presidential nominee Nelson A. Rockeffeller said Tuesday that former President Richard M. Nixon's acceptance of a pardon for any Watergate crimes was the same as an admission of guilt. 
But while standing by President Ford's decision to pardon Nixon, Rockefeller disagreed slightly with the President's acceptance of an agreement to turn over the Watergate tapes to Nixon. 
l:iOSTON UPI-Fourteen arrests and three injuries were reported Tuesday as racial flights at Hyde Park High School and demon­stration and classroom boycotts in Charlestown and West Roxbury disrupted the ninth day of a courtordered Boston school integration program. 
BELFAST UPI-Four Parcel bombs, exploding within minutes of each other, severly damaged four shops and a nearby cafe Tuesday in Londonderry's Strand Road area. The spokesman said bomb experts defused a fifth bomb and were dealing with a sixth. 
an campus £aday 

12:15 pm --seminar, "report on International rransplantatlon congress, jerusalem," dr. robert t. trultt, mt. sinal medical center, with coffee and sandwiches In room 109 at 11:45, rm. 102 lobund lab, galvin life science center. 
4:30pm--lecture, "electromagnetic absorption In strong-coupling In superconductors,'' dr.james c. swlhart, dept. of physics, Indiana university, bloomington, rm. 118 nieuwland science hall. 
4:30pm --lecture, "minority students In law school," dean robert waddlck, rm. 105 o'shag. 
7:00pm--meeting, college republican club, Iafortune 2-d. 
7:30pm --lecture, "how polluted are our waters: future prospect­s," dr. clarence dlneen, smc, carroll hall, madeleva memorial. 
8:00 pm --lecture, julian bond, democratic candidate for the presidency, memorial library auditorium. 
9 & 10 pm --film, alfred hitchcock's "shadow of a doubt," $1, eng. aud. 
8:15 pm --concert, boys town choir, msgr. schmitt, conductor, wash. hall. 
11: oo pm --south quad liturgy, badin hall chapel. 


Assembly allocates fWtds 
by Marjorie lrr Starr Reporter 

The SMC Student Assembly voted Monday night on proposals to dlocate funds for two campus organizations and .entertainment for the SMC Founder's Day. 
The International Student Club 
was allocated $400 to sponsor 
cultural events which benefit the 
whole student body. In a letter of 
request to the assembly, the club 
proposed events such as an In­
ternational Night. The event, 
which will involve all SMC' 
students, will give international 
students an opportunity to discuss 
their countries and customs. 
Off-Campus and Day Students have been granted $500 this year and an amendment also passed legislation which will include this expenditure in the Student Government budget in coming years. One of the events being planned by the Off-Campus and Day Students Organization is an October dance. 
The proceedsof the dance will be 
donated to CARE, but immediate 
funds are needed to pay for a band 
and other details. The allocation 
will also help to sponsor activities 
which will help SMC's three 
hundred off-campus and day 
students become more involved in campuslife. 
A unanimous vote passed a proposal to allot $75 to Saga Food 
Service  has  scheduled  en­ 
tertainment  for  Founders  Day,  
October 13.  

A proposal to broadcast WSND radio in the SMC dining hall during meals, did not pass. Members of the Student Assembly argued that music in the dining hall would only serve to heighten the noise level. 
SUN!>HINt: t"K 

To review p-ogrm1s : FORMAL : :REGISTRATION: : N.D. sKl lEAN\ •AA Board convenes : V\11: D. SEPT. 25 •• • 

By Theresa Stewart Staff Reporter 
The Alumni Association Board of Directors will do more than watch the game this weekend. An analysis of the goals and objectives of the board, a review of Association and Alumni Club programs, and an update on current University matters are planned for the four day meeting which opened today. 
Paul S. Holowczak, assistant director of the Alumni Association, said, "We want to dispel the myth of Alumni involvement in only football parties. The alumni are an active group concerned about this University.'" 
The 19 members of the Board of Directors, representing different geographical regions of the United States, will convene at the Center for Continuing Education for sessions concerning the Alumni Association and a general briefing on campus affairs by six executive administrators of the University. 
"In the absence of an executive director, the Board's review of the Association, its goals and ob­jectives will be more critical than usual," Holowczak explained. Hew referred to the Alumni Association as in a state of transition since a replacement for James D. Cooney, former Executive Director, has not been selected. 
The President of the Association, Richard W. Murphy, will be in charge of the meeting. 
During the weekend, the Alumni Board will review the Association's many programs. The June Reunion, the Annual Fund, the Sorin Awart to an Outstanding Alumni list only a few of the ac­tivities sponsored by the 176 Alumni clubs. The Board will take a look at the role of the Alumni Senate, the Student-Alumni Relations Group, the Senior Bar and many other activities of the Association. A self-analysis of goals and objectives of the Alumni Board will also be considered. 
81?8ides the general briefing by six ND officials on Friday af­ternoon, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, president of the University: Fr. James Burtchaell, Provost : 
and Fr. William Lewers, Indiana Provincial Superior will be guest 
The Observer Is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the stUdents or the Univ'\'.:slty of Notre Dame and St. Mary s College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester IS14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

TIQ\JS PRESENTS 
AN EVENING OF SOUTHERN BOOGIE ' vvith 


LYNYRD SKYNYRD 
and special guest 
HYDRA 
7:30 p.m TLESDAY OCfOBER 1 M~RIS CIVIC AUDIT~ILV\1\ 
at Northend  of  River  Bend  
Plaza,  Downtown  South  Bend  
Tickets:  

$5.00 Advance, $6.00 Day of Show 
AVAILABLE AT AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE, STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE & BOOGIE RECORDS 
•
: 7:00PM •
•
speakers at the various luncheons : 1-C l~TUf\E • 
and dinners during the weekend. • •
•
Tours of the campus, daily : •
INFO·

Masses, luncheons, and dinners • will also be provided for both :0 N A SP EN TI\.P •• ~!~:~i Board members and their _: J A N • . •
4 1 1 : 
Wednesday, September 25, 1974 the observer 
SMC newsletter to link community 
by Diane Smits Staff Reporter 
A newsletter will be chief means of communication between students and faculty and the SMC Career Planning and Placement 
81.\C almnnae 

conducts 
by John DeCoursey Staff Reporter 
Approximately 1,500 alumnae living in the Chicago area are being called for pledges as St. Mary's college conducts its second phone-a-thon. The drive stated yesterday and will end tomorrow. 
The fund-raising activity is a project of the Development Office at SMC. All money received will go to the Annual Fund. Sister Ellen Dolores Lynch, vice­president for public relations and development, is in charge of the drive. 
Commenting on the drive, Jody Williams, director of publications 
seniors will focus on job-getting
phone-a-. on an~h~kil~~niors attending the 
Office, according to Karen O'Neil, the office's new director. At a meeting yesterday with ap­proximately fifty St. Mary's seniors, O'Neil discussed the purpose of the newsletter and the aims and objectives of the Plan­ning and Placement Office. 
th 
said, "The purpose of the drive is two-fold. First, we are truing to increase the amount which each contributor gives, and second, we want to increase the number of givers." 
Chicago area alumnae are doing the calling form the offices of WMAQ, an NBC affiliate in Chicago. The offices were provided by Lee Schulman, vice­president of NBC and a member of ST. Mary's Board of Regents. 
The first phone-a-thon was held last May in Washingotn, D.C. Williams said the drive was very successful s the number of con­tributors more that doubled. 


Julian Bond to speak tonight 
by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter 
The Student Union Academic Commission will sponsor an ap­pearance by Julian Bond, Georgia State Legislator from Atlanta tonight. The 34-year old black leader, who recently announced his candidacy for the 1976 Democratic presidential nomination, will give a public lecture in the Memorial Library Auditorium at 8 p.m. 
In fourteen years of public life Bond has compiled an impressive list of accomplishments. In 1960, he founded the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee <SNOC). 
be nominated for the vice-presidency, but was too young to accept the nomination. 
Recently Bond played a major role in the overwhelming victory of George Busbee over Lester Maddox for the Georgia Democratic gubernatorial nomination. 
Today Bond is chairman of the Southern Elections Fund, a non­profit ,non-partisan group, organized to prov1dt-financial and organizational aid to progressive candidates for local office in the 
South. In 1965, when Bond was first elected to the Georgia legislature,there were fewer than 100 black 

In 1965 he was first elected to the ·elected officials in the South. 
Georgia House of Represent~tives, today, there are over 2000. ' 
The goal of the newsletter will differ with each class. For the freshmen, the newsletter will serve as a guide in self-evaluation and analysis. The sophomore section of the newsletter will deal with the connections between various majors and corresponding carrers. Specific carreers and job identification will be the central theme for the juniors and the 
meeting favored the newsletter as the best means of imparting the information that the Planning and Placement Office had to offer. They did not feel meetings would be as effective, since many students have heavy demands already placed on their time. 
This does not mean, however, that the Planning and Placement Office has entirely ruled out meetings or group sessions as a method of counselling students, O'Neil said. O'Neil described several possibilities, including group pre-interview sessions. These sessions will be held one or two days before a group of seniors are scheduled to be interviewed by perspective employers. In­
"We are changing the color of Southern politics," claims Bond. "The way to do that is not to go after the big jobs but to con­centrate on the little ones closer to the people. If enough blacks can be elected at the grass roots level, it's bound to have a major impact on politics at the top." 
In accord with this, Bond has pledged to arrive at the 1976 Democratic convention with a sizeable block of support, "at least enough to influence the nomination." 
Bond has also directed his energies towards continuing the war on poverty, advancing
education for blacks and urging a 
Africa. 
but barred from taking offiCe by ;----------------------~...,.
legislators who opposed his· statements on the draft and the Indochina War. In 1966, Bond was re-elected by his constituents for the 3rd time, and the U.S. Supreme Court unanimously supported Bond's right to take his seat in the Georgia House. 
At the Democratic National Convention in 1968, Bond charged Georgia Governor Lester Maddox with excluding blacks for par­ticipation as delegates. The replacement of half of the Maddox delegates led to the elimination of the "unit rule," which had previoulsy stifled dissent , and became the forerunner of the convention reforms for 1972. 
Bond was nominated to run with 
Presidential candidate Eugene 
McCarthv. the first black ever to 
FOUR FLAGS AREA APPLE FESTIVAL .. . 
Nine days of Jubilee, Jamboree and Celebration in tribute to Apple Harvesting Time and our Rich History, the only area in Michigan to ever be ruled under four different countries, France, Britain, Spain and the United States of America, and this fall we will again be showing it off to you. 
Apple Festival Showboat-Gay 90 Review-Niles Senior High School-8,pm, Michigan Time-Sept. 27, 28,29-Students, $1.00 
Activities to Meet Everyone's Interest -Art Shows -Sports Events ­Ethnic Dinners -Fishing Contest -Tours -Carnival -Talent Show ­Displays-Bike Marathon-Ye Olde Village Square-Lots of Music ... 
GIANT GRAND PARADE -OCT. 5, 4 pm COME AND JOIN US!! 
"· -·. ~"I '~ I ' • ~;.,...,..,I~ •. ~ (. •• 




terviewing procedures, employer information and similartopics will be discussed at this time. Another program proposes awareness sessions to deal with subjects like Assertive Training," "Job-Getting Skills," and "'Decision-Making." 
O'Neil also announced that changes are being made in the recruiting programs and the student intern programs. There will be an expansion in the scope and geographic location of the recruiters and the recruiters primary interest will be in female liberal arts graduates. The change in the student intern program is 
basically one of switching the student from clerical work to peer­
counselling  and  research  
assistance.  
Further changes include  the  

updating and streamlining of all forms and manuals in the Planning and Placement Office. Also SMC is now a member of Catalyst, a service for college-educated women who are interested in professional jobs after graduation. O'Neil emphasized the fact that this service exists to create professional jobs for female college g::aduates and not to produce secretariP.s. 
i
i 
:
•
!
• 
: 
~ 
~ 

i.!?.f-.~.~!~;.1.~J!t.f9Ji.lf!J.~Q&MAJJQJ1j 
SAINT LOUIS UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW 
ASSOCIATE DEAN PETER SALSICH (A.B. ND-'59) 
I WILL BE ON CAMPUS FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27 
FROM  9:00  A.M.  - 4:00  P.M.  TO  TALK  WITH  
STUDENTS  ABOUT  LAW  SCHOOL,  THE  LEGAL  
PROFESSION,  AND  SAINT  LOUIS  UNIVERSITY  

SCHOOL OF LAW. OF PARTICULAR INTEREST TO NOTRE DAME STUDENTS IS SAINT LOUIS UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW'S NEW JOINT J.D.­
M.B.A. PROGRAM, THE J.D. -M.A. IN URBAN AFFAIRS PROGRAM, AND EXPANDING CLINICAL PROGRAMS. 
new foreign policy for black --:::::::;::;;::::;::;::;;::::::;::;:::::;:~;;;:-;:~;;;;-;:-;:~;-;~ 
.. 

• lEGAl AID & DEFENDERS'
•

• ASSOCIATION PRESENTS • • • , THE MAN •
• 
I I TOOK AN ACCIDEt~T TO MAKE A BLACK MAN 
I'IH SIDE NT OF THE UNITED STATES 
•
• 

:• FRIDAY, SEPT. 27 :•
. : 

: 8:00, 10:00, AND MIDNIGHT : 
. : 
:ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM $1.00 :
• 
•
• 
•
• •
•
•
•
• •
• 
: 
•
• 

IV.IICHIGAN STREET : ADULT THEA~ i 


X 2 F1LIV5 :
• 

X BOOKSTCm: :
•

X LIVE FLCXE SHOW i 1316 SOUTH MICH1IGAN STREET :
. 
•

:ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM $1.00 • 
••••••••••• • •• .............• 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 •• •• •SOLDIER BLUE •• • • •RATED R • featurin~ : OCE BERGEN ••• 
I llf Oil Jlf R WAt, N\At,t,l\1 IH ANil GOOD 
t,OI Jllf Wt, F IIi I OW llJHif llt, lllf t,f ..OIIllf RS 
Wfllf lltf Rft,l . 
8:00, 10:00 
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 28 · 
• 

-------------~-­










THE OBSERVER. 
Al'\1 INDEPENDENT STI.IOFNT NEWSPAPER  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  NEWS:  283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471  
Tom Drape  
Editor-in-Chief  
AnnMcCarry Editorial Editor  Marlene Zloza Managing Editor  
Bob Zogas  Terry Keeney  Bob McManus  
Business Manc:ger  News Editor  Advertising MaNger  

W~nesday, Septel'}1her ~··_:1:_:_9.:_74:____________~---­
Confrontations: Rectors or the Dean? 
This Monday's clarification of the recent alcohol directive seems at first glance to be an appropriate and wise response to a very difficult situation. The 
directive to comply with Indiana Supreme Court decisions, issued in late August by Dean of Students John Macheca, ruled that no student under the age of 21 would be allowed to drink on campus. At that time, both Dean Macheca and Brother Just, vice· president for student affairs, emphasized that disciplinary action would, if possible, be confined to the hall staff. 
The clarification agreed upon Monday places most of the burden and respon­sibility for enforcement, as predicted, on the staffs of the residence halls. It stresses non-disciplinary "con­frontation" as the means by which minor violations of the alcohol directive will be handled. 
In light of the complexity of the directive, and the difficult implications presented by the Indiana Supreme Court rulings, this clarification is the most sane means by which each individual violation can be judged. There is no better safeguard against abusive in­terpretations of the rules, by either students or administrators, than the involvement of the hall staffs. 
It will take a great effort of un­derstanding and compromise for the office of Student Affairs and the hall staffs to reach an agreement on the handling of vilations. From the side of the Student Affairs office, it will appear 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

to be of the utmost importance that violators be handled with a sense of penalty that will set an example for future cases. From the standpoint of the hall staffs, it will be of the utmost im­portance that violators be handled as individuals, and _members of the hall community, with more regard to the preservation of the sense of hall C(\m­
m unity than to setting an example. 
It is hoped that the office of Student Affairs, and particularly Dean Macheca, will take a step back in these matters and allow the residence hall staffs to be the predominant judicial body. 
In the past, Dean Macheca has taken an active invovement in certain disciplinary cases that may have been better handled within the hall, rather than by the Dean's office. 
For example, last year's Sorin Hall 
incident, concerning ar. illegal party, 
may have been better handled in the 
hall than in the Dean's office. This is 
judgement by hindshight, though, and 
similar judgement may not have seemed 
feasible at the time. 
In commenting on the clarification, Student Body President Pat McLaughlin said "As long as the students understand these, there should be no problems." 
What will, in the future, prove to be the most important understanding of· all will be Dean Macheca's interpretations of his role within the framework of these clarifications. 
Fred Graver 
the observer 

Night Editor · AI Rutherford Ass't Night Editor -Ginny Faust Layout -Marti Hogan Copy Reader -Den Bradford Day Editor -George Velclch Editorials . Fred Graver Features · J.R. Baker, Norm Bower Sports -Greg Corgan, Bob Kissel Typists-Nell Viii. Kathy Grace, Karen Hlnks, Camille Arrleh 
Compugrapn1c uperator -M.J. Foley Picture Screener -AI D'Antonio Night Controller -Howard Halle 
The Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief: Tom Drape Editorial Editor: Ann McCarry Managing Editor: Marlene Zloza Sports Editor: Greg Corgan News Editor: Terry Keeney Copy Editor: Jeanne Murphy Special Projects: AI Rutherford St. Mary's Editor: Mary Janca Senior Night Editor: Bill Brink Features Editor: J.R. Baker Contributing Editors: Fred Graver, 
Jim Eder, Pattie Cooney Photo Editor: Zenon Bldzlnskl 


P.O. Box Q 
;:~=~=~=~=~=~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:-;$:::::::::-.::::"'.:::::::::::-.:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::-.::.:::::-;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::; 
Fear and 
Disgust 

at SNC 
Dear Editor, 

In the past issues of the Ob­
server, there have been several 
statements of condemnation on the 
subject of so-called "panty raids." 
None of these articles, however, 
can even approach adequate ex­
pression of the fear and disgust 
with which the last raids were 
received by man of the SMC 
women. 

1We three are RA's from 
McCandless hall who were present 
when these incidents occurred. We would like to make an appeal to the 
men of Notre Dame to stop and consider what has been done during these destructive jaunts. Physical dama ge to the buildings at SMC means relatively nothing when the psychological and physical harm inflicted on in­dividuals is considered. One girl suffered a concussion; one of us was dragged out of a window, broken in two by some of your numbers; night hall directors were subjected to numerous atrocities including some men exposing themselves to these womf:!n, 
We realize fully that as in­dividuals you are, on the whole, a fairly respectable bunch. However, the mob psychology seems to eliminate any sense of respect for the dignity of the in­dividuals who reside in our halls. Certainly, there were a few women who were responsible for letting men int o the door: we realize the problem is not one-sided. In a commmunity such as ours is supposed to be, however, con­sideration for individuals should be of prime concern. 
The actions of the latest raids have instilled a great deal of fear among hall staffs and residents, fear which is very genuinely felt in regards to basic security. We would ask you to top and consider what you are doing, and remember your own self-respect before you decide to participate in one of these very un-traditional excursions. 
We are people and you are people: let's have a little self­respect. 
Thank you, 
Carol Collins 
Denise Malley 
Kathy Rueth 
Abortionists: 
Murderers? 
Dear Editor: 

I wish to express my whole­
hearted endorsement of Professor 
Mcintosh's refutation of Professor 
Rice. Obviously, even if abortion 
is murder, those who merely ap­
prove of abortion without having 
undergone or performed one can 
hardly be deemed "murderers": 
they would be complices to mur­
der. And, as Professor Mcintosh 
points out, how could a Methodist, 
or a University Woman, or a 
member of the American Civil 
Liberties Union be a murderer~r 
even an accomplice? Professor Rice seems to share with others of his ilk a perverse disinclination to be awed by the powerful and respectable of the world--a per­versity, alas, shared by too many self-styled "moralists" from Jesus Christ on down. Such reasoning, taken to extremes, would lead us to take an unkind view of those good Germans who failed to try to stop Hitler, or who simply carried out the policies of the constitutionally established regime. 
The strongest point of Protessor Mcintyre's letter is his concern for those children of poverty doomed to be "cruelly and postnatally aborted." In such cases, the clear rule should be : The sooner the better. Some few of thse un­fortunates might even have the postnatal abortion delayed 80 or 90 years, and think of all the suffering they would have to go through then. Professor Rice might fatuously suggest that such children be fed rather than but­chered in the womb. No doubt, he would also argue that a man with astigmatism be fitted with glasses. 
This is a mere expedient, a tampering with the symptoms. To get at the root, you should put out his eyes. 
In this regard I would suggest that the abortionists themselves are too content to rest with half­way measures. I would propose that by law every human organism be sterilized upon or before puberty. This measure would work no hardship on anyone, would avoid even the hint of "murder," and, in the long run, would solve every human problem that I am able to think of. Within twenty years, for instance, birth defects and juvenile delinquencey would be eliminated. Within a century we might have a little peace and quiet around here. 
Sincerely, Peter R. Moody, Jr. 


Old Fords 
London, September 16, 1974 
The Editor University of Notre Dame Newspaper, Ind. 
Dear Editor: 
What's in an old Ford? 
Funeral Of R epresentational Democracy 
and the restoration of Direct 
Democracy, i.e. without 
representatives or delegates. 
Neither leadership nor 
followership. Neither driver nor 
driven. Neither guru nor diciple. 
Neither teacher nor student. 
Look within. Be intensely aware 
of that inner flow of thoughts, 
feelings and actions. Realize that 
you are simply the Observer­
Experiencer-Perceiver of that 
endless flood. 
Then walk further on. 
Awareness. 
Sidney Simon 

,Wednesday, sep_t_e:b-er-B~9_7_4____tb_e__o~bs--e-r_v_e_P__5____--..1 
seeing spaceship earth from nd 
by lokesh pate/ 

Paul-Ho Liu, President Chinese Student Association 
"After seeing the jewels at Topkapi, the fabled Blue Mosque, and bazaars, it's awafullv nice to come home to lstanbulliilton." -Advertisement in Time magazine 
The international Student Advisor's Office on camp·1s,located in the basement of LaFortune is also a home away from home for the International Student. The ever-busy, informal, cozy and friendly environment of the office is the major interface to the campus and South Bend environments. Unlike the average American campus student, the average international student undertakes a trip abroad for the sole purpose of educational endeavors within an institution such as Notre Dame; the basic reason fol' this is the economic limitations of the international students. Hence, the "cultural impact" is far greater in dimension, and Father Dan O'Neil, the International Student Advisor, secretary Betty Fit­terling and Carol Nelson, through various orientation activities, the host-family program and get-togethers, help tremendously in helping one adjust to an alien environment. 
When the Americans landed on the moon, the act demonstrated two things, namely: superior space technology, and the words "spaceship earth" were used for the first time by the great Guru Bucky Fuller. In other words, you and I are on board a spaceship,right now. 
On board a spacecraft, the crew lives in harmony with each other and with the spacecraft itself. Similarly, the American and in­ternational students can interact, leading to an overall better visualization of each other's customs, cultures and ~uriosities . The major aim of the International Student Organization is TOTAL HARMONY! 
This global village, the spaceship earth, has been guillotined' into two distinctly transcending human created "boundaries." The boundaries between the haves and the havenots. The nations. of the rich and the nations of the poor. The technological nations versus the Third World. There is increasing evidence that the spaceship earth is heading towards a technological milieu. Hence, the following observations by Sargent Shriver seem appropriate: 
"We know that no nation is an island, and that we cannot drift away from the reailty of the world around us. In his 1965 State of the Union message President Johnson said: 'We were never meant to be an oasis of liberty and abundance in a worldwide desert of disappointed dreams.' I am reminded of the old Eastern fable of the man who was condemned to hell. Because in one of his few actions of generosity he had spared a spider, the Lord let down to him a single spider thread. He grasped it, and began to be lifted up. 
All hell grabbed for his feet and began slowly to rise with him. In terror that thread would break, he kicked off the hangers-on, and the resultant jarring shock snapped the thread. Perhaps America must lift the world to find its own salvation. 
The spaceship earth has now become a complex and complicated web of knowledge explosion. It is not the question of America alone lifting the world to find its own salvation. Every nation on spaceship earth must lift the world to find its own salvation. Through acoordinatedeffort it can be done. This, then is the prime and major aim of the I.S.O.-total harmony within and beyond the campus. Notre Dame and St. Mary's College students and faculty always are welcome to the I.S.O. events. 


Helen Tso, Secretary ISO 

The International Student Organization has a busy and active 
schedule for the 1974-75 school year and also comprises the 
following associations: 
1.) African Association 

2.' Chinese Student Assocation 
3.) India Association of Notre Dame 
4.) Pan-American Association 
Major Events 1974-75 
The coming major events of the I.S.O. (International Student 
Organization) are: 

1.) Christmas Reception with all host families 
2.) International Festival, Spring 1975, Washington Hall. 
Reception after the Festival with traditional food from different 
countries. 

3.) Guest speakers who are nationally and internatior.ally known 
will be invited to speak on their endeavors. 
4.) Reception for graduating senior and host families. 
African Association 
This association is the latest addition to the I.S.O. family and events are now being planned. 
Chinese Student Association 
• 

The events for the year 1974-75 will be published in the next ar­ticle. 
India Association of Notre Dame 
1.) Movies: Indian movies with English sub-titles. India is the second biggest movie-making nation on the spaceship earth. However, some of the box-office hits will be screened at Notre Dame. Further information from: The President India Association of Notre Dame, P.O. Box 141, Notre Dame, Indiana 
46556. 2.) Picnics: Four picnics being planned for the year 1974-75. Traditional Indian food served. Informal get-together. 3.) Annual Dinner: A cultural events day, celebrating "Diwali" or Festival of Light. Spicey traditional Indian food served. 
Pan-American Club 
1.) Pan-American Festival-October 18, 1974-LaFortune Student 
Center. 2.) Latin American Film Festival: "El Padrecito"--October 24 1974.; "Che Guevara"--January 30, 1975; "Simplemente Maria"_: Apnl 21, 1975 3.) Fall Picnic-A picnic offered to all students for the purpose of introducing Latin-American students to each other and to the community-september 28, 1974-Bendix Woods Park. 4.) Winter Reception (Open to all students) February 11, 1975­LaFortune Student Center 5.) Traditional dinner for seniors and host families (free to all students at the University) April 30, 1975-LaFortune Student 
Center 


Fr. Dan O'Neil and ISO officers Raul Romero, President ISO 
~----~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---------~ -----------­
Wednesday, September 25, 1974
6 the observer 

~········~···········~··••+•••·····
rll'Sf ci three pcx:1ages ~ THE ATTlC i 




Homecoming tix go on salei i
RE-a>ENS THURSDAY 
by Bob Radziewicz Staff Reporter 

Homecoming '74 begins its annual swing today when the first of three ticket packages is placed on sale by the Student Union, according to S:>eial Commissioner Hich Guiltinan. 
This year Homecoming weekend is set for October 12-13, when the 
Rice Owls fly into South Bend for Saturday afternoon's contest with the Fighdng Irish. This specialweekend will be kicked off Friday night, Oct. 11, when the Student Union presents Gordon Lightfoot in concert at the ACC following the 
pep rally. 
The festivities continue Saturday 

night with a Homecoming party 
hosted by the Student Union in St. 
.Joseph, Michigan. "The theme of 
this year's party is 'Cabaret' 
That's the type of atmosphere 
you'll find at an old abandoned 
amusement park on Lake 
Michigan;Siluer Beach Ballroom, 
Saturday night," Guiltinan said. 
(-::;;::;:~~~:;:-:=:;;:;:;;;';;iiij;i;;~iii:::--l 
Will there be Gordon Lightfoot tickets available at the Student Union ticket office? 
Tickets for the Gordon Lightfoot concert will be on sale at 1:30 on 
Wednesday in the Student Union Ticket Office for $6.50, $5.50, and 
$4.00. 

Will there be a Homecoming package deal available this year like the one sponsored by the Social Commission last year? 
The Social Commission will again offer a Homecoming package deal for the students. It will consist of 2 football tickets (sold separately at $8.50 each), and 2 tickets to Cabaret, the Homecoming party which will be held at Silver Beach in St. Joseph Mich. The cost of this package will be $23.00, however any student who has purchased tickets to the Gordon Lightfoot concert earlier is entitled to a $2.00 discount. This package deal will go on sale at 8a.m.in the La 'Fortune Ballroom. Your l.D. is required and there is a limit of one package per student. 
My car is parked in the C-4 parking lot and I was wondering will I have to move it for the Purdue game? 
According to Security , all students who have cars parked in sections C-3, C-4, and D-2 will have to have them moved out by 8:00 dm Saturday and on every home football game. You can park your rar in any other student parking lot or in the greeenfield if you get it there before 11:00 am. 

The party, for couples only, will 
have two bands playing. Wine, cheese, and beer will also be served. The Social Commissioner 
further noted that 12 buses will be used for transporting the couples to and from the party. 
Guiltinan then explained the three package deals that the Student Union will be offering for Homecoming '74. 
Offered in the first package are tickets for the Gordon Lighfoot concert Friday night and the 
"Cabaret" party on Saturday night. The package which includes two concert tickets and one party bid(for the couple), offers a two dollar discount on the party bid. "This package will go on sale Wednesday, September 25, at 1:30 
p.m. in the LaFortune ballroom," Guiltinan said "There will also be a limit of .150 concert-party packages, on a first come-first 
serve basis " Tickets f~r the Friday night concert without the special S u deal aiso go on sale Wednesday 
afternoon. Gordon Lightfoot 
tickets are available either through the Student Union or the ACC ticket office. 
The second package includes two tickets for the Rice-Not~e Dame 
game and one homecommg party ticket, all for $23.00. This package goes on sale, Thursday, Sept. 26, at 8a.m. in the LaFortune ballroom. "I won't be able to determine thetot~l numb~r of packages ayailable until late Wednesday 
mght. I can only say that the s.tudent Union will place all~Ickets on sale Thursday mor~~ m~ . one pa.ckage per student,Gmltma~ affirmed. . 
Referrmg to th~ Ho~ecommg scandal l.ast year m which some football tickets were re~e~ved for stud.ent gover~m~nt officials! the Social Commissioner explamed how this. year's distributi?n of football ticket packages Will be 
handled. "First of all, no preference to Student Gover~ment or Student Union officers will be given. All tickets given to the Student Union
for the Rice game will be sold, beginning Thursday morning. They <the tickets) will go on sale at 8 a.m. sharp, not one minute before," Guiltinan declared. 
"Also Bill McLean and his 
ombudsman staff will help 
maintain single-file order in the 
ballroom, which should ensure a 
fair system for the ticket 
allocation," he added. 

The final package offered by the 
Student Union includes only 
Homecoming party bids, which 
will be sold at $6.00 per couple. 
These separate "Cabaret" tickets 
will be available Friday during 
regular Student Union hours. 

liUiltinan added that 100 bids, excluding the other two packages, go on sale at S.U. offices in LaFortune. 
t {LOCATED Jlro\JE THE RO\AA) ~ 
.. r,OFFEEHOJSE ENTERJAII\.IAAI:Nf * 
.. ~ I'IIVW:: • 
t AND 1"""111 liEf AI'A~DHERE • 
+-~ IV~ t
tPIZZA * SANDVVIQ-ES * ca.o ORIN~·
+ •'""':'+ 
+ PII\BAI..l * PCXl. TABLES • 
+ • 
+ W E 'R E LOOKING F OR TALE NT . t 
~ U D IT I 0 N S F 0 R F 0 l K M U . * 
+ S I C I A N S • 
If-FOR APPOINTMENT OR INFORMATION • 
+ •
+ CALL STEVE OR RICH 234-6535 •
*'********!...**************+***********t 


THE WINERY 
2426 LINCOLN WAY WEST--MISHAWAKA, INDIANA TELEPHONE ~~ 
All the Finest European Oleeses 
Gift Boxes of 01eeses and Fancy Foods Oriental Cooking Ingredients 10% Cheese and Fancy Food 
Discount to Faculty and & Students French Bread and & G-oissants !\lew York Oleese cake 
Greek Olives 
,--· ---------------------------------------~ 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. except home football game weekends. . 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 {219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., ]>hones. 
Send this ad to your parents 
Attention All Hall Judicial Board Chairmen contact the Secretarv at Student Governrrent ( 6413) to set up appointments with the Judical Coordinator URGENT!  
-correction An error h a s been made on the Cinema '75 posters for the Alfred Hitchcock Film Festival. The correct s c he d u le is as follows: Sunday -"The 39 Steps" Monday -"Spellbound"* Tuesday -Foreign Correspondent"* Wednesday -"Shadow of a Douht"* Thursday -"Dial M for Murder" * incorrect on the poster  

•,. '• '• f. I • '"~ I I I f. I I I I #' I f I I I • I , • # I #-f I I • I • t t #' • ' J t , f 1 ~ • j • • f t
10 
.. 

~----~------------------------...-----~-----.------, 
l 
Concession stands hit record high n~r 
by Valerie Zurblis Staff Reporter 
A record 48 groups are opening concession stands for this year's home football game, according to Fr. David Schlaver, Director of Student Activities. 
Thirteen residence halls plus 35 other campus clubs and organizations will participate at 16 sites on campus. Last year 26 groups operated stands at 13 sites. 
Everything from hotdogs and hamburgers to the Knights of Columbus steak sandwiches and the handmade pillows sold by law school student wives will be on sale for students and campus vistors at home game weekends. 
Schlaver said to attract attention to the routine hotdog stands "there should be a gimmick. Do something different.'' 
WSND will broadcast live from their food stand. The cheerleaders will show off their acrobatics at their Notre Dame souvenirs booth and the lacrosse team will exhibit their playing equipment. 
Schiaver expects no trouble this year. "The whole concession situation is systematized enough that we don't expect any problems." 
The money raised by the clubs and residence halls will go to the organizations themselves. The proceeds from the Knights of Columbus stand will go to Corvilla, a home for retarded young adults. 
1. 

,.. VVednesday,Septernber 5,1974 the observer 
7 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES 
Euphoria records, lowest price for art records, including imports and cutouts plus weekly specials. 234­6535. 
TALISMAN AVAILABLE FOR PARTIES, DANCES, CONCERTS & PREGAME PERFORMANCES. CALL 272-9895 FOR IN­FORMATION. 
Money? Morissey Loan Fund can lend you up to $150. Basement of LaFor­tune, daily, 11:15-12:15. 
Available: 2 double Holiday Inn rms. Pre-paid, Fri and Sat nights for Purdue game. Call Joe, 289­3923. 
Take the Greyhound from Notre Dame to Chicago every Friday ·at 
4:40. Call Tom Boyer, 272-1807. 
TICKETS FOR THE LYNYRD SKYNYRD-HYDRA CONCERT OCTOBER 1 AT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
Now you can read the NY Times daily and on Sun. Get your copy at Pandora's Books. We'll reserve one for you. 
SHA NA NA TICKETS NOW AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. HOURS THIS SEMESTER WILL BE FROM 12:15-5:00 MWF and 11 :00 -1:00 & 2:30 • 5:00 TTH. 
Pandora's Books has a no charge special ordering service tor books and art prints. We want you to have the books you want fast. 602 
N. St. Louis Blvd. 
TOM'S UNIVERSITY STAN­DARD AT IRONWOOD & STATE RD. 23 WILL GIVE YOU A FREE 
N.D. GLASS WITH A FILL-UP. 
GORDON LIGHTFOOT TICKETS 
NOW  ON  SALE  AT  THE  
STUDENT  UNION  TICKET  
OFFICE.  

FOR SALE 
69 VW -AM-FM stereo, excellent condition. Best offer. Call 283-3639 after 8 pm. 
'69 Ford Mustang. V-6 3 speed. Good condition. Best offer. Call 1413. 
2 Elvis tickets. Call Tom, 3540. 
1970 Chevy stationwagon, low milage, good condition, good on gas. $995. 272-8246 weekdays after 5:30pm. 
Sherwood 8900A FM receiver. 232­8854. 
2 Presley bleacher seats. Best offer. 277-0014 after 7 pm. 
Pair of tickets to Sept 30 Elvis Presley concert. Second row, section B. Best offer. Call 6818 between 9:00 and 11:00 pm. 
FOR SALE: PAIR OF TICKETS TO SEPT 30 ELVIS PRESLEY CONCERT. SECOND ROW, SECTION B. BEST OFFER. CALL6818 BETWEEN 9:00 & 11:00 PM. 
Brand new tennis rackets -Wilson Head . all kinds. Big discounts. Call anytime. John, 1646. 
Honeywell Pentrax Spotmatic Takumar 1:2 55 mm lens. 287-0076, Ray. 
WANTED 
Desperately need two GA tix for· Army. Call Rahj, 1612. 
Desperately need 2 GA Purdue tix. Call 6232. 
Need 1 student tix for Purdue. Call Trace, 234-1889. 
Need 1 ticket (student or GAl to Purdue game. Please call Brenda, 4260 or Debbie 6746. 

Need ride to Tulsa Oct break. Expenses shared. Joe, 283-1205. 
Need 4 GA tix for Purdue game. Call Bill, 1746. 
Need 1ticket for Purdue. Call 3140. 
Need 2-4 GA Rice tickets. Dave, 6818. 
Need 2 GA Purdue tickets. Call Jim, 272-7734. 
Needed: driver for 3 year ,old In 5. Bend. One hour per day. $20 per week. Call collect Sat mornings before 10 am. AC 312-693-2281. 
Need riders to :;t. Louis or Kansas City. Call Paul, 8854. 
Desperately need 3 Purdue tickets. Call 272-9599. 
Help wanted -construction laborers. $2.50 hr min. 8 -5 Mon ­Sat. Part-time or fulltime. Apply in person, Fat Wally's Electric Beer Joint, 2046 S. Bend Ave. 
Needed: 2 GA tickets for Purdue. Call Marianne, 5247. 
Need 2 GA tix for any home game in Oct. Call Ellen, 4720. 
Need 1 student or GA ticket for Purdue. Desperate. Will pay $. Call Paul, 3178. 
Need tix for Elvis. Call Ellen, 4720. 
Need desperately Pitt tickets, GA. Please call Monica, 4489. 
Need 2 GA tix for Purdue. Will pay $. Call Jim, 3303. 
Wanted: 1 Rice tix. Call 284-4731. 
Desperately need 1 Purdue fix. Call John, 8883. 
Wanted: 2 Army tix. Call 287-0076. 
Need 2 GA tix for Purdue. Call Greg, 3687. 
Need 6 GA fix for Purdue: Will pay mucho $. Call Steve, 289-1376. 
Needed desperately by Wed­nesday: 2 -6 GA tickets to Purdue. Call Nance, 6717. 
Need 2 GA Pitt tickets. Will pay! Sue, 6771. 
Need 2 or 4 GA tix for Purdue. Will pay. Call 7471. 
Need 2 GA Rice fix. Will pay$. Call Charlie, 8283. 
Wanted: from 1 to 10 tickets to the Purdue game. Call Joe at 289-3751. 
Need 2 GA fix for Purdue, Rice. Call s·ue, 7837. 
Need ride to Chicago, preferably O'Hare. Thursday, Sept. 26. Fitz, 287-3463. " 
Urgently need 6 Purdue tickets. Call Tom, 288-7637. 
Desperately need 2 Presley con­cert tickets. Willing to pay well. Phone 259-0408 after 5 pm. 
Needed desperately, 1 GA ticket to Rice game. Tom, 8398. 
Need 8 tix for Purdue. Call 288­7946. 
Need 2 Elvis tix. Good money. 272­9622. 
Need six Miami tickets. Pay top dollar. 272-9622. 
Desperately need GA fix for any home game. Don, 1213. 
Need 4 GA tickets for Purdue. Will pay $. Call 288-6195. 
Desperately need 4 GA fix for Pitt. Call Dan, 1739. 
Need 4 Michigan St. tickets. Call 3683. 
Wanted: 2 GA tickets for Purdue. Call 8475 or 8472. 
Wanted at any cost: 2 adjacent GA tix for Purdue. Pat, 7812. 
Wanted: 2 Rice GA tix and 4 Army GA tix. Call John or Kathy, 282­1568. 
Wanted: May Fair Rest waiters, 5­10-11 pm. Part time or full time. Must be 21. $4.25 plus tips. Call 255­5517. 
FOR RENT 

1 or 2 singles off campus. 1021 Demaude Ave. $55.00 mo. total. 1 block from bakery, grocery, laundry. Call 232-2773. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: black wallet between Engineering and N. Dining Hall. I D no. 731069729. Reward if returned. Call Dave, 233-3647. 
Lost: lady's black watch on South Quad or parking lot. Anna, 4909. 
Lost: 1 pr of girls silter wire­rimmed glasses on Sept 13 somewhere between Stepan and Breen-Phillips. Reward. PH 3097. 
Lost: H.S. ring in O'Shag piano room. Initials A.J.F. Gold. Call 8624. 
Lost: theology notebook, Friday morning, Sept 20. "Understanding Faith." Extremely important. Please call Jim, 3597. 
Lost: Saturday between Faculty Parking Lot and Dillon. Silver ring, black stone, inscribed "Chris." Call 7954. 
Lost: small gold pen-knife, Initials 
J.T.R. Between North Dining Hall and Walsh. Call 8113. 
Lost: hard black glass case with gold wire-rimmed glasses inside. 
Reward. Call Brian, 287-3586. 
Found: in photography studio. Gold pin with initials S.F.H.S. 1971. Call Observer, 8661. 
PERSONALS 
Wesley, Congratulations on your entry to manhood. Happy 21st! 
Gloria and Maigot 
Eileen Forward, Too much friction will bend my member. 
Steel Studley 

Dear Lou in WPB, Greetings to you from Pam, Alice, and Jeanne. When are you Coming 
up? 
Prune Cuber, Nothing better than a pinacolada after a shower. Your gold towels missing? 
ALL POTENTIAL PANTY­RAIDERS: HAVE WE GOT A "PANTY" FOR YOU! 
4th FLOOR BP 
Butch, If increasing my lust you must, Then miss my mustache you must. 
yourman 
Our minds are voids,.our lives are worthless. Suggestions welcome. Women wanted. Please help! Terry "Pixie" Madden, 272-4713 "Easy· Dan" Novakow, 283-1406. After 10 pm. 

Sweel Joachi-m, It's your 21st I think, So certainly you'll want a drink. May I suggest pink ink? And staying near the sind? Happy Birthday! 
G-MAK, G-MAK. The Yink 

scott K. Demand for you exceeds supply. Typical female logician. 
Schmidtty, Happy 21! You now can drink! Your Housemate S 


J 
~-------,---------~ --~­
the observer Wednesday, September25, 197_! 
-----------------, 
Bowl heroics history for Weber 
By Pete McHugh game-clinching reception, only for 66 yards. Against Northwestern Weber's second of the season made Saturday, he scored his first
December 31, 1973: Third down the Dallas native a prime object of varsity touchdown on a fourteen­and eight, the ball on Notre stardom predictions in South Bend yard strike from Clements.

Dame's two-yard line, less than and imprecations in Tuscaloosa. In describing the various aspects three minutes left in the game, the Now, nine months since that of the tight end position, WeberIrish lead Alabama 24-23. Quar­rainy night in New Orleans, Weber indicated that analyzing defensive terback Tom Clements fades back looks back at his Sugar Bowl alignments, particularly in pass
into his own end zone and launches . -. 
patterns, has posed the biggest
a perfect spiral toward the left heroics modestly if not 
problem for him. He also em­
sidelines and into the arms of tight philosophically, "I just contributed 
phasized the importance of lear­
end Robin Weber. Notre Dame has to the team. Catching that ball in 
ning certain blocking techniques in
a first down! Notre Dame has the the Sugar Bowl won't guarantee 
the Notre Dame offensive system. 
Sugar Bowl! Notre Dame has the that I'll play this year. You have to 
Weber, a junior business major, 
national championship! play from week to week; you can't 
feels that this year's team, despite 
From the obscurity of the bench live off your reputation." 
the many losses, compares
and the shadow of all-American Whether or not his 1973 exploit 
favorably with last year's national
Dave Casper, Robin Weber vaulted has affected his team status, 
champions at a similar stage. He
into the national spotlight and Weber has apparently captured 
said, "We're off to a better start
Notre Dame football history with the starting role at tight end. I11 the 
than last year's team, though there 
that now famous catch of two games this season, the 6-5, 239 
are still a lot of things we have to
Clements' audacious aerial. The lb. Texan has caught four passes refine. Compared to last year's team, I don't think we're in that bad of shape."
Buckeyes lead polls 
He said the squad's spirit has not been adversely affected by the Ohio State has regained the top position in the latest AP and UPI numerous roster depletions, "If collegiate football polls. Coach Woody Hayes' Buckeyes demolished anything, the morale has in­
creased. We're not overconfident.
Oregon State 51-10 last Saturday. . Robi11' Weber hauls in another pass for the 1974 Fighting Irish. 
Meanwhile the Irish following a 49-3 victory over Northwestern, fmd We have a good attitude going into themselves i~ the secon'd spot of both polls. The Buckeyes got only 23 first a game. We don't plan on killing place votes in the AP poll to Notre Dame's 26, but Ohio State had 1,110 anybody." 
points to 1,104 for the Irish. Weber is one of the few married 
Booters even record
In the UPI poll (in which Oklahoma is not ranked because of NCAA players on this year's squad. He probation) Ohio State received 20 of 35 firs~ pl~ce votes_ f~om the coaches, has been married for over a year by John Decoursey Eastern Michigan scored again.
while the Irish got 13, with Alabama and Michigan rece1vmg one each. and lives off campus with his wife The Irish ded the scoring with aUnusual to both polls for this early part of the season is the fact that Peggy, also a native of Dallas. He Notre Dame's soccer team goal late in the half to bring thethere are teams in the Top Ten with losses. These teams include feels the responsibilities of ended a long road trip with a final score to 4-2.
Nebraska Southern California, Penn State, and Louisiana State. married life and living off-campus successful jaunt through The Irish stretched their winning Games 'coming up this week include Notre Dame hosting Pu~due, have been beneficial to his college Michigan. Two· weekend' victories streak to two with a 3-1 win overSouthern Methodist at Ohio State, Utah State at Oklahoma, Vanderbilt at career, "It's definitely helped me. 
combined with an earlier loss the University of Michigan on
Alabama, and Navy at Michigan. I enjoy my family. I enjoy being during the week evened Notre Sunday. The Wolverines scored
married. It's good to have someone 
Dame's record at 2-2. first but Finnegan evened the UPI Poll AP Poll to come home to." score before halftime. Louis
The Irish record fell to 0-2 as
Th<' United PrPss International A high school teammate of junior Monserrat pushed the Irish into the 
Board of Coacht>s top 20 major coll<'g<' Thr Top Twenty. with first-place Central Michigan toppled the Irish 
halfback Paul Linehan, Weber is lead and Finnegan added an in­
football ratings w1th won-lost records \'ott's in parentheses. season nocord and 3-1 before one of the largest crowds and first plar<' vot<'s m parentheses: total points. Points tabUiatt'd on basis of one of four Irish players from surance goal on a penalty kick. 
ever at a Central Michigan soccer
PoiRtli :'0-18-16-14-12-10-9-1!-7-6-5-4-3-2-1: Jesuit College Prep in Dallas The Irish defense I Ohio St. (20) (2-01 .. 331 1.-Ohio State (23) 2-0-0 .......... 1.110 game. Central Michigan scored 
~-Notre Dame (13) (2-0). . .. 317 2. Notre Dame (26) 2-0-0 ........ 1.104 where he garnered all-state and first on a breakaway and kept its sparkled with Tom Lischwe at 
3. Alaooma (l) (2-0) ...2!!0 3. Oklahoma (H) 1-0-0 . 913 all-Dallas honors at tight end. He fullback Mark Klein at goal.
one goal lead throughout the half. 
4. Michigan (l) (2-0) .. 2fl7 4. Alabama (4) 2-0-0.. . 896 
preceded sophomore Tom Unis Commenting on the team's 
~-Texas (2-0) . . . . IRS 5. Michigan 2-0-0 . . . . 756 The Irish evened the score in the 
6 Anzona St. (2-0) .130 6. Texas 2-0-0 .. . .. .. . 5R8 and freshman Anthony Haden to progress Bob Ralph, presidem 
second half when Terry Finnegan 
7. Trxas A&M (2-0) . K2 7. Amona Slate 2-0-0. . 477 Notre Dame. of the soccer club said, "In our 
H. Oklahoma St. (2-0). . 00 8. Pitt 2-0-0.. .. . .. . . 273 scored form the rignt side. Central 
9 NPbraska (1-l) 43 9. Tt'xas A & M 2-0-0 2541 Personally, Weber has not set Michigan, ·spurred on by the first two games we controlled the 
10. WtS<~>nsm ( 2-0) 3.'i 10. Nebraska 1-1-0.. 237 ball well but we didn't score much.
any individual goals for this crowd, countered with two more 
II. TPnn<•s.o;<'t' (HI-I) 211 11. Wisconsin 2-0-0 . . . 200 
season. However he does have goals as they caught the Irish But this weekend we started to find 
12. 
Miami. Fla. (1·0) 2fl 12. Oklahoma Stall' 2-0-0 192 

13. 
North Carohna St. (2-0) 22 13. No. Caro. St. 2-0-0 . . . . . . . . . 191 expectations for his team, "I would goalie out of position. the goal. Defensively, we're fairly 

14. 
(TI<') t'londa (2-0) 20 14. Tennt'ssee t-0-1.... 171 just like to win the national strong but we still have to work on (lie) Pittsburgh {1-0) 20 15. Arizona 2-0-0..... . 135 The Irish broke into the victory a few things."


16. LSU (1·1). IH 16. Illinois 2-0-0. .. . 115 championship. I couldn't ask for 
column with a 4-2 win over Eastern The Irish will open their home
17. Southt'rn CaUfornta (Il-l) .... 15 17. Louisiana State 1-1-0.. 109 anything better." Success cer­
18 Arizona (2-0) .. 14 18. So. Caltfornta 0·1·0 . . 103 Michigan on Saturday. The Irish
tainly hasn't spoiled Robin Weber. season with a long awaited 
19. IllinOIS (~·0) --. 13 19. Penn State 1-1·0 . . . 97 
attack was led by Finnegan and 
:!0. P••nn St. (I-I) . . . . . . 9 20. Miami, Fla. 1-11-0 .. .. . .. . .. . . 115 w···-·········•..••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• center halfback Steve Roach as rematch against Purdue. The 
Note: by agreement with the Am<'ri· Others receiving votes. listt'd alpha­game starts at 7:30 on Friday at 
can Football Coaches, teams on proba­betically: Arkansas, Auburn, Florida. Nyrop Skates both scored two gaols. Eastern Cartier field. The Irish will also tion by lh<' NCAA are inchgtble for top 
Maryland. Memphis State. Miami ol 
Michigan scored first but Notre play Indiana University at In­
Ohio. Michigan State. Mississippi. Mis­ation by lh<' UPI Board of Coaches. sissippi State. North Carolina. Texas For Montreal Dame tied it up before half-time on dianapolis on Sunday. The 'B' ThOSl' teams currt'ntty on probation Teclt. Tulane, UCLA, West VIrginia. a goal by'Finnegan from his right team plays its third game of the arP: Oklahoma. SMU, California, Long 20 and aattonal championship consid<'r· 
Notre Dame graduate wing position. The Irish pulled into season tomorrow against Marian
Beach State and Southwestern Louts­

Bill Nyrop, a 1873 bcdey a 3-1lead in the second half before College of Indianapolis.
uma. 
All-American and star de­


SPECIAL ATTENTION: ANYGJE WSHING TO APPLY FOR lHE SENICR UUB GENERAL MANAGER R BUSINESS MANAGER POSITION SHOULD SUBMIT AN APPLICATION OF INTENT. IT SHOOLD INCLUDE A STATE1JENT 0:PURPOSE, EXPERIENCE, GENERAL BACKGROUND, AND ALL OTHER INFORMATION ABOUT YOURSELF THAT V\OULD PERTAIN T YOOR MANAGEI\ftNT ABILITIES. YOO SHOULDALSO GET AT LEAST THREE(3) RECQ\A\1\ENDATIONS FROM VARia.JS PEOPLE OF THE NOTRE DMI\E COIJNUNITY. DRCP THIS APPLICATION OFF VVITH THE SErnETARY IN THE STUDENT AFFAIRS OFFICE NO LATER THAN THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 26..  fenseman for tbe lrlsb, skated a regll)ar tum for tbe Montreal Canadtens In tbelr exbJbffioa game wftb tbe Cbleago Black Hawks Sallday .tpt. Tbe Caaa­dleas lost, 5-1. ...·--····-·-·····-·-··-·---~ Wormn's golf There will be a meeting of all girls interested in joining the Notre Dame women's golf team on Wednesday, September 25 at 7:00 p.m. in the Badin Hall Lounge.  After a hard night's studying it's *LOUIE'S BAR* 7 4 4 N. N.D. Ave. 16 oz. BEER *SANDV\110-IES *PIZZASONLY so~ Come down you won't regret it/ * GUYS 'N' GALS * Uhe WinJjammer DOES IT ALL! South Bend's only complete Hair Care Center for the sexes. Four expert stylists are ready to serve you, complete with the full line of famous RK products. Call now -all services by appointment so there's no waiting! 232-6622  







