~-­
----------------------~---
Oa The Inside 
0-C alternatives (part two) ••• page 3 Point-Counterpoint •••page 5 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX No. 51 

David Thompson 

Thoinpson calls for British vvithdravval 
by Bob Radziewicz Staff Reporter 
Citing the inability of British troops to halt Catholic-Protestant violence in Northern Ireland, English Journalist David Thompson called for an immediate and completew1thdraw alby all troops from the conflict. 
Thompson, who spoke last night before a small audience in the Library Auditorium, based the proposal on his experiences as a free-lance journalist in Northern Ireland. He has been observing the Irish ·civil war since receiving his sociology degree from U.C.L.A. in 1969. 
"The very presence of British troops only feeds the senses of hatred and rebellion in the long-()pressed Catholics," Thompson observed. 
"A timetable for withdraw\ of the troops should be set up now," the English writer proposed, "so that the people of Northern Ireland, Catholic and Protestant together, can be afforded the opportunity to work out internal differences for themselves. The situation at present shapes up to be one pitting British supremacy against Irish independence," Thompson said. "The Catholics and Protestants are caught up in the bloody middle; concern for the people is definitely la~king, he added. . . . 
-The growing d1staste for the Northern Ireland cns1s 1s beginning to appear among the English and Irish public too, ac­cording to Thompson. Again referring to his experiences, the 
U.C.L.A. graduate noted a growing movement to seek troop with­drawl. 
"The British public sentiment for the bloody crisis can be equated with American disenchantment with _ Vietnam," he said.. "The 
English are tired of the Northern Ireland problem; they are bred of readingabout British soldiers and innocent civilians being killed," Thompson declared. . 
He also pointed out that similar feelings of disdain exist in the free Irish state to the south of the politically-torn country. The emotional feelings for unification found among the older generation of Irish are now being overridden by the present-day generation's movement towards economic practicality. 
The Englishman speculated that the feelings in Northern Ireland at present tended towards seeking an independent state like Rhodesia had established. "The religious differences must still be present, but with the chance to end the bloodshed and return to a normal way of life as we know it," Thompson predicted, "I feel these tensions will become secondary." 
The psychological effects that the Northern Ireland tensions has had on the children is l:locumented in medical reports that note a rise in nervous conditions. "There are no parks left in Northern Ireland. The streets now become the playgrounds and the children can see first-hand all_ the horrors around them." 
Also, schools are now regarded by children as "havens" from the violent reality of their world. In fact, Thompson said, those schools where the discussion of this reality is not stressed are more preferred and better attended by the children. 
On a similar note, The English journalist pointed out that segregation in the education system is maintained by religious hierarchies, not the public. Thompson equated that particular situation to the bussing controversy here in the United States. The housing segregation makes it virtually impossible for Catholic and Protestant children to attend the same schools. 
Thompson presented a film he made with his brother in Northern Ireland at the height of the crisis to substantiate his observations. Entitled A Place Called Ardoyne, the plot centers around a small Catholic district engulfed by the Protestants. The film traces the Catholic-Protestant rift since it began with the civil rights marches in the early 1960's. The pervading theme re-affirms his earlier premises that both religious-political sects desire an end to the bloodshed and an opportunity to establish harmony and cooperation in the torn nation. 
Thompson also presented a history of the English-Irish fight for Northern Ireland, beginning back in the days of Elizabeth I. In the sixteenth century, the area was essential for defense against the Catholic powers of France apd Spain. The Industrial Revolution in England and the Great Famine caused the the potato blight are key events in the history of the controversy. The culmination of the conflict came with the partition of Ireland in 1922. Following this partition, Catholic emigration to the south was "encouraged," usually through various discriminatory tactics in voting and power distribution. 
The S'uJent Union Academic Commission sponsored David Thompson's lecture concerning the pressures creating crisis in Northern Ireland. 
Tuesday, November 19, 1974 
?&dian GPA higher 

ND grade inflation seen 
by Mike Rizzo Staff Reporter 

The national problem of undergraduate grade inflation has become evident at Notre Dame where the median grade point average has risen almost one half point in the last ten years. 
Since the fall semester of the 1964-1965 academic year, the median grade point average for junior Arts and Letters majors has risen .446 points, for junior business majors .482 points, and for Science majors .430 points. The median grade for freshmen has grown .491 points in the past ten years. 
Statistics for the last semester indicate that the median grade for junior Science majors is 3.22, for Arts and Letters majors is 3.13 and for Business majors is a 2.99. 
Notre Dame is not alone or even outstanding in the extent of its grade inflation. Dean Richard Thompson of the College of Arts and. Lett_ers noted "Notre Dame is not the worst m th1s. Place~ like Stanford find their grade point average up to above a 3.5 while Notre Dame's is about a 3.1." 
Timt> magazine (November 11, 1974) recently conducted a survey that revealed that 42 percent of all undergraduate spring term grades were A's at Yale University and 46 percent of the seniors graduated with honors. At American University 75 percent of all grades last spring were A's or B's. 
Reasons for increase at N.D. 
Although no one is able to give definitive causes for the recent rapid escalation of grades, Dean Thompson, who recently completed a survey of grade inflation in the Col~ege. of Arts and Letters, outlined several contnbutmg fac­tors to the specific Notre Dame problem. 

In the 1960's the S.A.T. scores of incoming Notre Dame freshmen began to rise and the general assumption was that Notre Dame was receiving superior students who should be rewarded by superior grades, stated Thompson. Since that time the S.A.T. scores of entering freshmenhave levelled off, said Thompson, and so that may no longer be a significant factor. 
During the Vietnam war students had to remain in good standing with the university to avoid the draft and so there was an added military pressure on professors to give good grades, added Thompson. 
Increasing student concern with graduate school adds to the pressure on professors to give high grades. Dean Joseph Hogan of the College of Engineering stated, "The grad schools demand such high grades that the students transfer some of their concern to the professor. If the student is a good student and he's got an A or an A-, and grades really are a qualitative thing any how, the professor might give him the A because he didn't want to hurt the student." 
Dean Thompson noted that the introduction of minus grades a few years ago may have raised overall grade points. "Where a student mighthave before had a C, he may now get a B-." 
Nationally, Time magazine noted that in ad­dition, faculty members are aware of faculty evaluations written by students, and professors may attempt to gain good grades themselves bygiving their students good grades. 
Also, Time noted that increasing use of the pass-fail option has reduced the percentage of lower grades and raised average grade points. 
AACRAC survey 
An AACRAC (American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissio~ Offic_e~s) survey conducted in 1971 on the gradmg pohc1es of universities indicates some of the causes for increasing grades. In just 1970, over half of the 1696 association members made major changes in grading policies and adopted less traditional systems. 
Sixty-()ne percent of the universities use the pass-fail option on a partial basis and two per­cent use a total pass-fail system. Of the in­stitutions using pass-fail, 55 percent limit the pass-fail option for electives and only 39 perct;nt record a failure as a part of the grade pomt average. 

For a repeated course, 46 percent of the schools average the two grades while 54 percentsimply replace the old grade by the new one. In 1971, almost half the schools surveyed indicated that their grading systems would likely become even less traditional while only three percent said that their grading would become more traditional. 
These administrative change~ have combined to eliminate many lower grades andincreasethe grade point inflation. 
Fr. James Burtchaell reviewed the Notre Dame problem and stated, "We must think that teachers are lowering their standards each year. 
Either that or the students are performing better each year and by other national standards that has been seen not to be so." 
Dean's list requirements 
This year a change was instituted in the honors requirements at Notre Dame to allow the limit for honors to at least keep pace with grade in­flation. As Dr. Darwin Mead, assistant dean of the College of Science stated, "When half the school is on the Deans's List, and that's an exaggeration of course, it's not much of an honor." 
Last year student with a grade point above a 
3.25 made the Dean's list. In the College of Science this included all students above the fifty­fifth percentile and students above the sixty-fifth percentile in the College of Arts and Letters. With the new Dean's list requirement of 3.4 
G.P.A., the percentiles will be pushed up on last semester's scale to the seventieth in science and the seventy-fifth in Arts and Letters. 
The changes instituted at Notre Dame adapted to the situation of grade inflation, but did nothing to rectify the problem. "The switch was only an attempt to change an absurd situation with honors," stated Fr. Burtchaell. the change will have no effect on grades. "No teacher thinks of the honors when he gives out grades," said Burtchaell. 
Grade point inflation hampers graduate schools and universities, noted Burtchaell. "This problem makes it impossible to distinguish different shades of excellence," he stated. 
Although a serious problem, the remedy for grade inflation is not simple and no one knows exactly what should be done, siad Burtchae~l. "We discuss it all the time. There has been w1de coverage of the problem without, I think, shedding any real light on the matter." 
No curb on grades 
Presently nothing official is being done to attempt to bring down the grades • at Notre Dame, Dean Thompson, who was a member of a grade review committee which made recom­mendations to the university, stated, "It is difficult to know what must be done. We can't tell students to sit back, tighten their belts, and take lower grades." 
The committee did make specific recom­mendations for grade curbing policies. "Most of the suggestions centered around seeking out the teachers most notorious for high grades and asking them to be maybe a little more discriminating," continued Thompson. 
No general edict about grade control has been issued, noted Thompson, since such a change would tend to hurt Notre Dame students when they compete with students from other universities for places in graduate law, or medical schools. ' 
Graduate schools are faced with terrific dif­ficulties in discriminating between students when most of their applicants have extremely high grades. "This tends to make them depend more on letters o~ recommendation, or caprice, or make bad ch01ces,"·stated Burtchaell. 
Dean Hogan of Engineering noted that Notre Dame does examine the grade point averages of ..j graduate applicants, but that they also depend heavily on a graduate exam to gauge a student's abilitv. 
The continued grade point rise means that graduate schools must depend less on pure statistics and more on their own . opinions, noted Dr. Mead. "Grad schools have pretty much their own ideas of how good a school is and what the grades mean," he stated. 

---------~­
the observer Tuesday, November 19. 1974 
warld briefs 
DETROIT (UPI) -Chrysler Corp. Chairman Lynn A. Townsend said Monday that the No. 3 automaker plans no company-wide shutdown during December but will have substantial layoffs to cut 50,000 cars from its production schedules. 
NEW YORK <UPI) -The stock market staggered by a deepening recession, rising inflation and the nationwide coal strike-suffered its worst loss in 11 months Monday in moderate trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -The nation's Roman Catholic bishops Monday received for debate a proposed statement putting them on record as opposing state and federal capital punishment laws. 
TOKYO <UPI> -Hundreds of thousands of railroad workers launched massive walkouts Tuesday as President Ford preparedfor meetings with Emperor Hirohito and Prime Minister Kakuei Tanaka on the second day of his visit to Japan. 
WASHINGTON (UP I) -Congress returned Monday from a month­long election recess with leaders of ~th parties indicating little if any major legislation would be passed m the seven-week lame duck session. 

an campus taday 
Tuesday, November 19, 1974 
3:30pm . seminar, "harmonal control of vltelloglnln synthesis In the mosquito aedes aegyptl" by dr. h. hagedorn, galvin life aud. 
4 pm -lecture, paul gilbert series, by s. brandfon, 122 hayes-healy 4:30-poetry reading, by michael amanla,llb. aud. 
1-9 pm . dance, faculty lessons, by fran de marcho, $3 Iafortune ballroom 
5 pm -vespers, evensong, log chapel 
7:15pm-mass, charismatic mass, holy cross hall chapel 
7:30-panel discussion, "career opportunities In public accounting" by accts of price waterhouse, carroll hall 
7:30 -discusion, transendental meditation, lib aud. 
8 pm · meeting, ladles of notre dame tour and music program art 
gallery ' 
8 pm -prayer meeting, charismatic prayer meeting, holy cross halfway house 
8 pm-lecture, america: sports and religion, by michael novak, 118 nieuwland 
8 & 10 pm -film "knife In the water" spon by cultural arts com­mission, $1, engineering aud. 

*****************************************************~ 
i Ex · the ··totch·
: perlellCe sp1r1 ristmas 
:* 
! * ** ! 
*
*
: 
*: 
as never before. 



amahl 
&the 

night 

,., 
visitors 
A special presentation of the South Bend Symphony Orchestra 
"Amahl & the Night Visitors" is a : colorfully staged and costumed mu­
sical classic with an appeal to all : people, young and old alike. This is Jf-the first professional production ever Jf-to be performed in the area. There
Jf-will be two performances only and Jf-tickets are limited. We suggest you
* 
purchase your tickets early. 

* 
Performances:



* 

~ Morris Civic Auditorium ...--Friday, December 6 (8 p.m.) : Saturday (matinee) Dec. 7 (3:30p.m.) 
Business faculty claims 


No course cutbacks seen 
by Fred Herbst 
Staff Reporter 

Despite rumors to the contrary,
faculty members of the College of 
Business Administration claim 
that there have been no cutbacks in 
the number of courses offered to 
ND community to participate in rice and tea dinner 
Atea and rice dinner, sponsored by the World Hunger Coalition, will be held in the North Dining Hall on November 26 between 5 and 6:30 
p.m. Only those members of the Notre Dame commmunity who sign up for this dinner should eat in tha tdininghall. 
Sign-ups for the dinner, which is being coordinated through Campus Ministry, will end this Thursday at noon. Those people who still wish to participate in the coalition's dinner can do so by contacting Mrs. Mary Ann Roemer at 6536. Any information concerning this project may also be gotten through her. 
Off-campus students wishing to participate will be charged $1.50 per person from which $0.75 will be a direct contribution to the World Hunger Fund. 
ND Law School changes spring vacation period 
The Notre DameLawSchool has announced that. it is shifting its one-week spring vacation, originally set to start March 10, to a period beginning March 24. 
The Law School faculty ap­proved the change, which serves to bring the Law School into con­formity with the University calendar, which has a 10-day break starting March 24. 
The Observer is published dally 
during the college semnter except 
vacations by the stuoents of the 
University of Notre Dame •d St. 
Mary's College. Subscriptions 
may be purchased for $9 per 
semester ($16 per year) from The 
Observer Box" Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
Tickets: Friday Saturday Reserved seats $5.50 & 4.00 $4.50 & 3.00 General Admission $3.00 $2.00 
For reservations and ticket informa­tion, phone the Morris Civic Audito­rium box office at 232-6954. Tickets may be ordered by mail by sending 
a check or money order and a self-addressed, stamped envelope to: Morris Civic Auditorium, South Bend, IN 46601. 
:

: *: *
*
* 
~ 

i 
a a 
* 
* 
*
: 
*: * 
:

* 
*
* 
~ , l: ;: 
* 
..._ ~ ~ 
* 
......................................................: 
undergraduate business students Raymond indicated that he feels next semester. the rumors of course cutbacks 
While rumors of cutbacks have stem from students who are been spre~ding through un­dissatisfied with their course dergraduate business students, schedules. "Registration has been Associate Professor of Finance and always will be as in the past, and Business Economics Paul except for certain changes in the Conway said that he knew of mechanics, that is that students as students having "difficulties in well as administrators will never getting cards", but hadn't heard of be happy nor satisfied with it until any cutbacks in the number of the day comes when students courses to be offered for next obtain all courses and all semester. professors at the desired hour that 
Associate Dean of Business they want. This comes from a man Administration Vincent Raymond who has lived 52 registrations stated that there have not been any <including mid-yearcourse cutbacks for next semester. registrations)", he stated. 
*CAC ONEIV\A '75 * 
PRESENTS 



KNIFE IN THE WATER 
ROMAN PaANSKJ'S FIRST FILM 
TUES.-\1\ED.  ADM. $1.00  
8 • 10 PM  
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM  PATRONS GRATIS  


-----------------------~~-­
-------------------~------------------, 
Tuesday, November 19, 1974 the observer 
3 

Dorm life has made mark at ND 
by Jim Donathen December, 1973 Notre Dame as a blueprint for future Notre campus population onto the Secondly, demand for off 
Staff Reporter Magazine. Dame life, provides no specific campus would require a large campus housing would be reduced, 
The COUP report on residen­solutions. outlay of money for new increasing the possibility of Editor's Note: This article, the tiality emphasizes the importance The Committee on University buildings." establishing a university district in second in a two-part series on off­of on campus living and the in­Priorities said: Fr. Thomas Tallarida J.<'nday South Bend. campus options, examines the teraction among students of "Steps (should be taken) to outlined three options for Through long range planning, report on residentiality of the diverse geographic backgr01mds. eliminate overcrowding and to university policy: restrict where the University could concentrate a Committee on University "Residentiality, a Catholic make life in halls more congenial. students live, build apartment reduced off campus poupulation in Priorities. The 14-member character and a commitment to "Programs should be developed complexes close to campus or the area surrounding campus. A committee, chaired by University scholarship are, we hope three to meet the special needs of off­construct a new residence hall. university district would result Provost Fr. James T. Burchaell, hallmarks of Notre Dame. Next to campus students so that they can Despite the large expense in­in a close-knit community of was appointed in Sept. 1973 by Fr. its academic mission and its share in Notre Dame's non­volved, a new residence hall ap­students. Theodore M. Hesburgh. Catholic character, residentiality curricular lfe to such extent as pears to be the best alternative in Off-campus students would 
is the least dispensable of Notre they please." light of COUP report goals. enjoy an alternative life style
"The residentiality of Notre Dame's hallmarks," states the The COUP report plays down the First, a new hall would lessen without sacrificing the communal Dame has made its mark on all report. option of building a new resident overcrowded conditions in existing nature of on campus life regarded who have lived here. The loyalty The report also recognizes the hall. "An attempt to bring the off-dorms. so highly in the COUP report.and attachment of alumni can be deficient nature of Notre Dame's 
attributed as much to the life they residential character. Off' campus VYill meet Wednesdaylived here as to the learning they residents receive few of the ad­acquired," states the Report of the vantages of hall life, according to Committee on University the report. Priorities, published in the But the COUP report, intended 
Officials to discuss student life 
by Pat Flynn
DuPont has smoked pot: 
McLaughlin, Student Body
Staff Reporter tomorrow's meeting committees
President. "Whatever we decide will be formed along the lines ofStudent Affairs officials and will then be passed on to theBoard
warns against its usage 
the original student proposal. Thisstudents will meet Wednesday of Trustees." 

would mean the selection of 10WASHINGTON <UPI) -Dr. Institute on Drug Abuse, was afternoon in a structural meeting The seven-student committee students, 5 administrators, and 5Robert L. DuPont, head of the asked if he had smoked concerning student life at Notre that presented the original report faculty members to staff these five government's drug abuse agen­marijuana himself. Dame. The meeting, announced to the Board of Trustees was made committees.

by Brother Just Paczesny, Vice
cy, said Monday he has tried "In the past I have used up of Pat McLaughlin, SBP; Frank McLaughlin also commentedPresident of Student Affairs, is in
marijuana. marijuana," he replied. "But Flanigan, SBVP; Tom Drape, he was to
that hoping chooseresponse to the Oct. 17 report on

But if he had known then it's been a number of years Observer editor-in-chief; Bob sophomores and juniors for the ten what he knows now about the· ago. I have no intention of Student life presented by seven Howl, HPC chairman; Darlene student sJots available on the fivehealth hazards of marijuana, he repeating the experience. students to the Board of Trustees. Palma, representative on the SLC; committees. "If these committees might not have, DuPont told Whether it is decriminalized or The 70 page report contained a Pat Burke, Student Union direc­do not finish their work by the end 
newsmen. . legalized would have no effect proposal to form five committees tor; and Ann McCarry, Observer of this year, I want some people
"It's clear that marijuana IS on my own personal considera­of four people, each of student, contributing editor. next to know what is goingnot good for the health," said tions." faculty and administrative per­McLaughlin believes that at uucuc>u~;•w•u remarked.DuPont in releasing the fourth DuPont said he believes some sonnel to study these areas ofin a series of of government marijuana smokers might give concern in student life; academics, 
scientific summaries on re­it up if they realized the drug coeducation, finances, residen­search in marijuana and might affect the blood levels of tiality, and living environment health. "I am prepared to at least one hormnne and that Wednesday's meeting will con­
certify that it is dangerous." some ingredients of marijuana sider this proposal.DuPont, head of a White have a tendency to accumulate "We will decide WednesdayHouse drug abuse prevention in the brain and in other bodily exactly what we want to do con­
agency and of the National tissues. cerning the report," stated Pat 
Ne'W Religion course to explore the proble:ms of inner-city poor 
by Val Zurblis Washington, D.C. of problems,"

Staff Reporter these he com­
Stella stressed the double option mented.
The Notre Dame Theology of group or individual learning. "The CCUM people are excitingDepartment will offer a new one "Just because someone can't get to and highly motivated in changingcredit course entitled "Religion those cities doesn't mean he can't systems. There is spiritual depth and Values" next semester. The be a part of the course," he stated. and just being exposed to it makes 
goal of this pass-fail course is to Stella also said that this course you come away changed," statedexpose students to the problems of will not only benefit students' Stella.the inner-city poor and to the participation but it will also be an So far about 30 people have
people who dedicate their lives to educational service to the Notre expressed an interest the
in

alleviate these problems. Dame community. course.
"I hope people Any interested people canA student spends 48 hours at a come back being touched by the contact Fr. Stella at 7308 byCatholic Committee of Urban needs of people andsomehowmake November 22 for more detailedMinistry site talking with mem­Notre Dame people more aware information.
bers and seeing how they deal with the problems of the poor. One main session is held before break, a journal is kept during break, and then one meeting is held af­terwards to exchange views from the different areas. ' Some reflection is involved on what was experienced 
Father Tom Stella, promoter for the course, explained that students have an option of going in small groups of three to six people to one of eight major cities or in­dividually to CCUM members in their own home town. 
The cities listed for the groups are Baltimore, Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, Houston, Memphis, Pittsburgh, San Francisco and 
WAITRESSES NEEDED 
AT FAT WALLY'S 
2046 So. Bend Ave. 
277-0570 APPLY 


IN PERSON 
----------~---------------­
--~---------------­
4 



Starving Masses 
Sir: 

It is high time the world com­munity, and the students of Notre Dame, took a realistic appraisal of the world food situation. Despite the fine intentions expressed by numerous groups and national to feed the "starving masses". in the underdeveloped areas of the globe ideas for such "free food" distrubution will only complicatethis problem when it must be brought to its inevitable conclusion in the near future. 
The basic problems facing the world today are those of over population and maldistribution of wealth of which only the former can conceivably be solved. 
Nations such as India and Bangladesh are so hopelessly overpopulated that only with massive death, on the order of millions will they even begin to reach a level where they can begin to cope with their domestic problems.
The primary cuase of over­population has been shown to be under education with the countries with the highest illiteracy rates also having the highest birth rates. If groups want to do anything to help India and other countries of this sort the course of action should be one of internal development of these countries both in education 
andagriculture rather than simple food handouts. 
To send millions of tons of food to these nations without provisions for educational and agricultural development would be throwinggood money after bad as the populations in these countries would continue to explode as we once again disturb the balance between man and his environment lves, famine is a natural population control>. Hence next ·;ear there would be millions more 
nouths to feed and the problem would only have been magnified. 
Those people who advocate massive U.S. assistance to starving nations unfortunately do not understand the pragmatic aspects ofmodern politics. No U.S. legislator, unless, of course, he wishes to commit political suicide, ·viii advocate higher food prices at home <a result of more food shipment overseas .) or a sub­..tantial reduction In the U.S. standard of living <high taxes would be needed to finance those programs) to feed people who are 
starving in some distant corner of rhe world. 
The food producing nations of the world must face reality. They can either "play God" now and cut off shipments of "free food" to the 
DOONESBURY 


starving nations of the world in favor of internal educational and agricultural development in those countries (allowing millions to die) or they can continue to pour food into those starving nations who are at present allowing their poupulations to explode and only postpone that inevitable day when there will be no more food to give them (allowing even greater numbers to die at some future 
date). 

It is a question of whether we wish to emerge from the comingworld famine into the light of a hopefully brghter day for mankind of sink into the new Dark Ages from which civilization as we know 
it will not rise again. 
I am, respectfully yours, Guy G. G. Wroble 



War Games 
To the Editors of the Observer and my student friends; 
There are a lot of issues thatneed discussing around here (our people torturing, government toppling CIA being here recruiting, the overconsumption of everything from food to G.P.A.s to cite a couple). but there has occured, or rather appeared lately in in­creasing numbers something that touches on a number of these issues, in a subtle, more symbolic, but nevertheless as dangerous way. Letter jackets traditionally are worn to symbolize that eter­nally American status attainment­-success on the athletic field, either personal or as a team. Lately, on a more close observation of the script on these jackets, I didn't see 'Morrissey Chess Champs-1969,' or 'Breen-Philips Toad SwallowingTeam-1955,' but rather, Notre Dame Navy. Being both an ex-jock and jacket wearer I can un­derstand the mentality behind this behavior. But being a veteran in addition to that, I feel I am in a position to tell whoever has allowed this activity to develop that being in the military and playing athletics are by no means the same. Although injuries occur in games and sports pageheadlines are often hard to deliniate from front-page 
headlines, people don't get shot, peoples' villages are not burned and hospitals all over this country are not filled with recuperating quarterbacks, but with those who returned, often with parts of them left in the mud of some rice paddy, from a war that so many of us seem to have left to history. 

When  the  deliniation  between  
war  and  athletics,  between  
military  activity  and  athletic  

achievements becomes fogged, 

and the difference unrecognizable we are in danger, in danger of allowing what has already begun to occur in this country--a toleration, an acceptance of the military mentality in our lives. Notre Dame for me has been a place of great ironies, a place of incredil:;.le beauty and of frustration, frustration with people who are too afraid of seeing which way the wind is blowing. This place has allowed me to learn a great deal about my country, and its activities both here at home and in other lands. It has also taught me that even though this is a Christian community, money still talks the loudest. 
Because the source of a large part of the funding from this place still comes from generous laumni, and this bread is used according to the Board of Trustees wishes, things like ROTC, sexism and prejudice still exist here. I can understand this--understand, not accept. But when the militarists take on a status that is equated with our other god-sports, something is really wrong. So if you happen to see one of these people, <their hair is usually neatly combed, their sideburns not lower than the earlobe and their mustaches not extending beyond the outer edge of the lip) making his or her way toward the grey drab building behind the Rock, do him a favor-ask him his position. 
Patrick Dillon 

81/T, /..AP/!51 IWFE5SOR  
/..ATHRJ/PS /N(){/IRY ti!AS SO  
INll?!GtJ'NGI AH!iR AU, IN  rMt:AN,A5  
POf)(JNSKY V5. NElli JEJ5E"t  SOON As HG As/(Gf),  so/)//)  .. 8lJT YOlJ  
If/HAT R6AUY /liAS 7Hli PR&­ 7Hc IJJJRP "JfJR/5/)/CT/ON"  THGit()RJ?  01/JNT SE!i  
VA/tl/tk3 /SSI/6 IN R6tATION 7lJ  !MJiiWIA!EtYSIJG66ST6/J  •BtJRtNG~  VSJTJMPING  
7116 AU66toA8tJStOF  fTSI3tF!( ~  I  I UP!  
"'  

the observer 
N-Ight Editor -Daniel Sanchez Ass't Night Editor -Maggie Waltman Layout -Martha Fanning, Bob Varettonl, Gregg Bangs Copy Reader -Premiering Ken Girouard Day Editor -Bob Radziewicz Editorials -Fred Graver, Rich Nugent Sports -Bill Brink, Greg Corgan, Bill 
Delaney Typists -Rick Huber, Jim Landis, Tom Modglin Compugraphlc Operator -Bill Steinmetz Picture Screener -Bib AI Night Contreoller -M.J. Foley Watch out, Bonnie and Clyde shall return! 
mere tokenism compared to the emphasis placed on the male

Fair Weather physical education and the male "camaraderie" on club teams and in athletic facilities here at ND. By mixing the personal with the general Margaret Story and Kathy Osberger, (who dealt with


Friends 
women in art in "The Chicago Trip") created a greater focus inSir: their articles and gave us an intimate yet realistic portrayal ofI think it is pretty obvious there women's struggles for identity and equality.

is a relationship between the first Besides presenting a balanced focus in the majority of the ar­snowfall of the year and the ap­ticles, there was also a balance in the type of articles. There were pearance of Greg Corgan 's article three articles dealing with jobs, each focusing upon a different"Fair Weather Friends ' working class, an article on sports, a poem, and a satire. These(Observer Nov. 14)." Corgan different genres added to the diversity of the magazine. 
surely has his head in it. 
Ms. Leading established a definite collective appeal and positive Mr. Corgan calls Notre Dame attitude towards action. Ellen Syburg's "One Step Forward"student fans "intelligent." One of relates the efforts of Jessie Verna's attempt ot invade the highlythe signs of this intelligence is an physical and male world of U.S. Steel. Miss Verna's experienceability to discern that the athletic relates to both male and female members of the ND communityprograms are not in our interest. 

since we all can identify with the pressure in summer jobs of beingIt's not so much the ·price of an outsider. Miss Verna had the added pressure of being a womanbasketball tickets in particular in a predominantly male job and masculine environment. Abut the attitude that says "To heii similar type of collective appeal was evident in Kathy Osberger's with the students, we c~n make 

"The Chicago Trip." When she discussed the rules of more money if they don't come!" 

professionalism one noticed that these rules pertain to both men asGreg, you should be glad there are well as women. Thus the magazine was not only reaching out to the620 tickets unsold, Now they can female community but to all of us.

be sold at the regular price and Besides presenting the ND community with an insight into the
help keep YOUR tuition or female consciousness and problems, Ms. Leading and its staffeventual alumni contribution demonstrated a positive attitude towards dealing with thesedown . 
problems. The negativism and apathy of most student criticism 
I'fl do the athletic was not evident in any of the articles save one. The fact thatprogram a favor and Jet them get three carloads of women went to Chicago, two braved the sportsthe full price on my ticket. I can't world, and one survived the industrial world showed a concertedbe even a "fair weather friend" to effort by these women to refus~ to Jay dormant and simply toa program that cares not at all for examine their plight and collectively console each other. Instead

my friendshio. 
they proposed to fulfill the role of Msl Leading and take a positiveSincerely 

step forward. With their efforts I give my sentiments and T.S. Steve Grohousky Eliots encouragement to "Fare Forward." Senior 
by Garry Trudeau 


Dpinian 
Ms.leading-­
Was It ? 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii thamas mcr:~inty 
On Tuesday November 12, a new publication made its debut on the Notre Dame campus, Ms. Leading. It was distributed to each room in all of the women dormitories while the remainder were distributed among the Administration, Faculty, Student Services and for the general public in La Fortune. Ms. Leading is an at­tempt by a group of women from the Notre Dame community to "provide a means for ND women to begin to communicate feeling and ambitions as they strive for their own professionalism."(l{athy Osberger) In reviewing the publication I found that they accomplished this goal and that the view which these women professed concerning the plight of the female community was not "misleading." 
Ms. Leading displayed an unusual quality of balance. Other literature of this nature seems to be too narrowly focused on one of two poles: vague generalizations dealing with governmnetal investigations into womens rights or isolated personal cases devoid of collective identification. Ms. Leading touched both of these plies but also covered the spectrum in between. Mary Ellen McAn­drews' article on equal opportunity in jobs provided an insight into the various Federal organizations which are supposed to insure women's rights in the market. This article provided Ms. Leading with a formal type of sociological news feature but it was only one piece of the total picutre presented by the magazine. 
The column "It Happened Here" covered the other pole of isolated personal cases. It related individual personal experiences of female oppression, in order, I suppose, that other females would be solaced in their own encounters with this type of oppression. These experiences in print, although anonymous, may encourage other women to vocalize their injustices. The main problem though is that "It Happened Here" is a two way street. For every instance of female oppression under the male hand so too is there an instance of maleoppression or female favoritism. But this ar­ticle along with McAndrews' managed to dwell upon the two poles I mentioned while the other features were broader in scope. 
The remaining articles displayed an incredible balance between the personal and the general. A prime example is Margaret Storey's article, The Other Side of ND Sports. She blended her attempts to confront the male emphasis in physical education at ND with an intellectual insight in to the inequality and unfavorable conditioning which women have suffered for years in regard to the field of physical education. I had previously held the opinion the Notre Dame and its males were being magnanimous in their efforts to give equal opportunity to women in sports, but I found it to be 


------------~-~-~ -----~-----­

PIICII Of THI lOCK 

autrider 

Third-Rate Excuse 
Nelson Rockefeller is not the brightest man alive. So it is not surpriseing that he has a triangle set up on an easel to remind him that the oil crisis is many-sided--well, at least three-sided, with each side neatly labeled. What is surprising is that "New York Times" columnist James Reston took that mnemonic device as a recom­mendatrion for Professor Rockefeller to take up his post as a didactic Veep. 
Rockefeller himself came on as an educator in the way he obliged senatorial curiosity last week. Every time he felt frank, which was ostentatiously often, he began his statement with "Frankly" a politician's trait and one that makes me l~ok to the silverware. Why did he commission a ?ook ~m Ar_thur Goldberg? Frankly, it was JUSt hke his other philanthropic funds to spread enlightenment: Mr. Goldberg ~as not known to the people of New York -his life, his career in labor, as a labor lawyer as a lawyer in Chicago and so forth. And that his positions on issues were not known and that therefore a book would be useful to the people of New York in making up their minds." It is strange that this book should be useful when Mr. Rockefeller himself tells us that sophisticated people never read such books. They only commission them. 
~olitical enlightenment, you will notice, is defmed by Mr. Rockefeller as a recognition that he is preferable to his opponent. And this. philanthropi~ project is, in turn, JUstified as a busmess venture. What is profitable is virtuous. 
Yet the book project is neither virtuous nor <in the business sense) profitable. Rockefeller's attempt to maintain this 
'darry wills 
hctwn is, at best laughable; at worst, cryable. The Rockefeller name ( not, he claims, Rockefeller money) had to be "laundered" so that other investors could be atfracted. 
Who says the investment was sound'? The project's initiator, Mr. Wells. Were other investors approached? Not that we know of. Did Mr. Wells himself invest in this sure thing? Surely not. Asked about that, Rockefeller grinned a roguish wink and shrugged, "Good question." Bad answer. If 
seriously! falks That's Good -­That's Bad art buchwald 
Everywhere I travel in this great land I am asked the same question about the economy: "Why doesn't the government to something'?" The answer, as everyone in vv shington knows, is that the government doesn't know what to do. 
I was talking to my friend Baradash, a high government official, the other day. 
"The orice of meat should go down next month," he said. 
''That's good." 

"No, that's bad. If meat goes down, the 
the Rockefellers knew no more about in-:cattlemen are going to get sore and shoot vestment that to take a flyer on Lasky and 5 their calves. You see, they're paying more Arlington House, they would have gone broke! for everything and getting less for what they long ago. Rockefeller is telling charming !sell." lies to his questioners, who apologize for ! "That's bad," I said. being tough before going on to be non-tough. s "It could be good if we could hold the line 
Rockefeller's strongest defense, and the 5on meat so wages in other industries would center of endless bad jokes, is that fact that ! not go up. The real problem is fertilizer. the book was a dud. It was a third-rate !There's a shortage of fertilizer because smear, just as (in Mr. Ziegler's words) !there is a shortage of oil. Of course, Saudi Watergate was a third-rate attempt at 5Arabia and the United Arab Emirates cut burglary. Our politicians now tell us that if !the price of their oil last week." they were interested in crookedness they ! "That's good." would be better crooks than they seem to be. ! "Not really. At the same time they cut the 
Maybe. But look at their economic !Price of oil they raised taxes on the oil proposals. Do third-rate political schemes ;companies, and it may cost us more for oil prove that our rulers are not politicians? ;now than it did before." 
5 "That's bad." 5 "And then we can't forget the coal strike 
There was no reason to commission the Sin this country, can we?" Lasky book except to bet a first-rate smear. ! "You're really a joy to talk to, Baradash." T~e fact that _all Rockefeller could come up i "Things aren't all that bad," he said. with was a third-rate one does not, of itself, !"Interest rates are going down." make Rockefeller virtuous. It only shows I "That's good." I brightened up. that he mucked up one of his less that vir-i "It won't solve our inflation problem, tuous efforts. Frankly, Rocky, that's not ;though. If money is easier to get, prices will much of a recommendation. iprobably go up again." 
"That's bad." 
"The important thing is that this countrv has been consuming too much. We've got to get people to conserve and not spend as if there were no tomorrow." 
"It would be a good thing if they did," I agreed. 

"It also ;:ould be a bad thing. If American~ don't spend as if there were no • tomorrow, people will lose their jobs and then they won't be able to buy ' new automobiles. If we don't sell any automobiles in this country, we're going to have a real recession, and then we'll have to raise taxes to take care of all tire people who are out of work." 
"That's bad." 
"It could be good if we taxed gasoline because that would be the best way to cut down on our oil imports. If we could cut down on oil imports, we could have a better chance for a favorable balance of trade." 
"That would be good," I said. 
"It would be, but no one has any money. to buy our exports, except possibly food. If we e~port our f<_>od, prices in the supermarkets Will go soarmg and we'll have a revolution at home." 
Baradash, you represent the government. Isn't there anything you people can do to stave off disaster?" 
"Well, I'm wearing my WIN button, aren't I?" he said. 
"That's good," I said. 
"No', he replied. "That's bad. The damn thing cost me a buck, and it keeps making holes in my suits." 

·-·-·-·····-··-···········-··-·············································································-···-··········-·····-·-.;························-··········--·-···-···-··········-···········-···-··································-···········..·················' 



To Stand •1n Solidarity 
I had little idea what hunger was until I met the Jenkins' family. It happened several years ago in Washington, D. C., in one of the most depressing ghettos of our country. I was helping out at a soup kitchen that daily served hot meals to the down and out. A group of us used to spend some of our time scrounging around for firt> wood, which was the only source of fuel for the pot-belly stoves that provided what little heat the families in the ghetto had. 
One day I stopped by the Jenkins' 
basementapartment with a supply of wood. I had met one of their kids hanging around the neighborhood, and he said they could use whatever we could could come up with. It was late in the afternoon by the time I got there, and they were in the middle of sup­per. What a scene! It was so dark inside, what with only one naked bulb providing illlumination, that I couldn't see a thing until my eyes got adjusted. 
Then I saw the family, five children and the mother, sitting around a bare table. For supper they were passing around a box of corn flakes; each one would take a handful and pass it on. That was it. That was supper. That was the way they ate, more often than not, I learned later, in that rat­infested hovel in the shadow of the Capital of the richest nation in the world. 
That same night, when I sat down to my 
substantial evening meal, I suddenly got 
nauseated I realized I was just about to 
gripe because we were having chopped 
steak again, and we had just had it four 
days before. My complaint collided with a 
sudden recollection of what I had ex­
perienced tdflier in the Jenkins' home, and 
I became so sickened with myself that I 
hardly ate anything. 
For a while after that I attempted to fast a couple of days each week. As I remember, it was not the result of a big decision, based on terribly impressive principles. It just seemed necessary because of the ex­perience I had had; I believe now that it was a fumbling way to _somehow associate mvself with that family. 
Unfortunately, the lesson I learned didn't stay with me very long. But every now and then I learn it again. The educational task is considerable. We don't. most of us, really know what it is to hunger; and, secondly, we don't realize our connection with those people who do. 
4
fr bill ·taahey 1 
l 
l 
we wouldn't be so foolish to knock any of them. 
Sure we need to collect money; but we also need educational efforts,. so that we might become sensitive to the real factors of the problem; so that we can intelligently exert an influence on our congress, heretofore so irresponsible in its policies toward the oppressed. 
~a~y at N.D. also feel thy need to change thetr hfe style and eating habits. It's no big deal to fast, or to select certain days for meatless meals. Anyone with a brain in his head doesn't think it does anything spec­tacular at tht very moment for the starving child i~ the sub-Sahara. In honesty, it is somethmg that works more on the person doing it, who is trying to sensitize himself to others, who is trying, in a modest way, to identify himself with them. 
The reason why it isworthwhileto freely go without food occasionally is to say to the hungry, whQ have no freedom about it: I can't take away your hunger with this ac­tion; I can't even share it really ... but I am with you. It is a symbolic action that proclaims the inner unity of men; It's fact that we need to stand in solidarity. It's a very small thing ... butit's something. And it might just lead us ro join together in doing a lot more. 

Imagine this scene. You are at Thanksgiving dinner. You're all gathered together--parents, relatives, brothers and sisters. Everybody sitting at the' table is healthy, well-dressed, enjoying a sump­tuous meal. All butone child who is sitting al the table in tattered clothes, hungry and desperately in need of help. We are ap­palled at the thought; can't imagine how this could happen. But there are brothers and sisters at our table all the time. We are just not conscious of it. We don't see them physically present, so we find it hard to grasp one of the most basic facts of all: we all are 1members of the one familv of man. 
The difficulty of recognizing thfs and of knowing what it is like to suffer' is the reason why the various efforts at education and action during this world food crisis are so important. We need all of them. If we were honest enough to realize our own ignorance, poverty' hunger' and deep needs, 

---------~~-------~-~------­
the observer Tuesday, November 19, 1974 
Constantly rising-fuel. expenses are energy co.mnuss1on concern 
by Paul Young 
Starr Reporter 

Rising fuel prices rather than shortages constitute the main concern of the University EnergyConservation Committee indicated Fr. James Flanigan chairman of the group. Energy ~urces such as coal are in available amounts to the University but the problem lies in their ever increasing cost stated Flanigan. 
The committee, created by Fr. Hesburgh last year in the midst of the nationwide oil crisis, embarked last January on its mission to "encourage the University com­munity to think more about energy waste, especially in the area of conserving electricity," stated Flanigan.
Through appeals to the students and a major concentrated t-ffort to reduce electrical con­sumption at the Library, the ACC and other non-resident campus buildings, the committee was able to save one and a half kilowatt hours of energy over the previous year. This amounted to a 20 per cent savings in energy ex­penditure, he disclosed. 
"If we can keep making savings like last year's 20 percent cutback, we won't have to do anything drastic, but such success will only be realized if we can keep con­servation in the public's mind," he continued. 
The history of fuel expenses is against stabilization, Flanigan indicated. "Beginning in 1923 when the University's electrical demand totaled 8.5 thousand dollars, the budget has increased up to the present 1.6 million forecast for this year." Next year he predicted the electrical budget may total 2.1 million or higher. 
The Library in its energy cut­back last year removed over 4000 lightbulbs, mostly from book shelf areas, Flanigan stated. 
Many rooms in O'Shaughnessy were locked after classes to prevent wasteful use of light and to prohibit students fromstudying in separate classrooms. 
The burden aiSC? falls. on ~e students to play their role m savmg energy, not just on the ad­ministration, Flanigan stated. 
Through the HPC Flanigan suggested that student representatives should be ap­pointed in each hall to survey the use of energy.
Another idea he proposed would be to organize a committee of "Watt Savers" volunteers, whose job would be to check campus buildinJ(s . that apparently waste electricity. 
Students might help individually be shutting off unnecessary lights,unplugging refrigerators while away, using radiators con­servatively, reporting damaged ones, conserving hot water while taking showers, and in general, using energy wisely, he com­mented. 

• SMC Madrigal :meal announced 
by Cathy Busto 
Staff Reporter 

Dr. Arthur Lawrence, associate professor of music at St. Mary's, announced yesterday that the SMC Madrigal Dinner will take place on December 4 through December 7. The dinner, which will be held in Regina North, will begin at 7:00 p.m. 
The dinner, now in its third year, will feature sixteen madrigal singers dressed in Renaissance style and six strolling musicians who will perform as people come in. Fifteen to twenty costumed attendants will then seat people and serve the meal. Each new event during the meal,such as the lighting of the candles, entrance of the madrigals, and the serving of each course, will be preceded by a trumpet fanfare. 
After the dinner, the St. Mary's music department, under the direction of Susan Stevins, will perform thf' short operetta "The Loving War." 
Tickets for the dinner will be $6.50. The menu will include a Christmas beef dinner and flaming plum pudding for dessert. 
Proceeds from the event will go to the choir fund which is helping to pay for the Madrigal's Florida tour. 
Dr. Lawrence explained the origin of the dinner. "Two years ago, we had a chariman who had came from, partly to make money and partly for entertainment. The dinners have been very suc­cessful." 
The SMC Music Programming Office will handle all ticket sales. Anyone wishing to make reser­vations should call 4167. Saturday night's performance is already sold out. 
E t 
rra Um 

The Friday, November 15th. issue of the Observer stated that the Junior Formal will be held on l~riday, November 22. The formal will actually be held on Saturday,:'IJovember 23. 
put on the dinners at the sc~h~o~o~l~h~e_:~============= 



Only Continental gets you a flight, a chalet, a car, and lifts for $264 
~ 
Our exclusive new Rocky Mountain ski packages feature luxury furnished chalet studio condominiums a short walk from the lifts. It's the Ultimate Lift Ticket! 
Chicago-Breckenridge package covers: 
• 
Round-trip jet Coach airfare with tax, and meeting service at Denver Airport 

• 
7 nights lodging, 7 days skierized rental, 3 days lift tickets 

• 
Lowest possible prices, immediate package confirmation 

• 
Larger chalets available with one to three bedrooms for two to six people 


We have similar packages available at Vail, Snowmass/Aspen, Keystone, and Steamboat. All prices per person double occupancy, with state and local room and car taxes additional, as well as Christmas surcharge December 20th through January 4th. Rental-car gas and mileage extra; driver must be 21 or over. 
For more information, contact your travel agent or Continental at 686-6500, or send in the coupon. 
,------------------­
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES I P.O. Box 4187, North Hollywood, Calif. 91607 I I want to get in on the ground floor of that ski I chalet package program. Tell me more! 
II Name____________________________ 
I Address-------------------------­1 City State Zip------­1 Phone_____ My travel agent iS------­
We really move our tail for you~ -­

CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 
!he Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. 
S.MC. Social Commission Presents 

"THE OTHER" 

Wednesday Nov. 20th Carroll Hall in fv\adeleva Time: 7 pm 9 pm & 11 pm Admission: $1.25 
NOTRE DAME 
FRESHMAN PREREGISTRATION FOR ARMY HOT(' 
Preregistration for the Freshman Army ROTC Spring Session will be held Nov. 14-21, 1974. 
No military obligation is incurred during Freshman and Sophomore years, and by enrolling, you become eligible to compete for a two-year Army ROTC scholarship during your Sophomore year. It pays full tuition, for books and academic fees, as well as $100 per month subsistence allowance. Even without a scholarship, you receive $100 monthly in your Junior and Senior years. 
Army ROTC can offer you a commission as a Second Lieutenant in the US Army Reserve concurrent with your graduation from college with a starting salary of $10,000.00 a year in addition to other liberal fringe benefits. 
If you then decide to leave the Army, you'll find that employers realize that a young graduate who possesses the attributes of leadership essential for Army officers is an excellent addition to their firm. 
The Army ROTC course consists of two class hours per week and is open to all Freshmen at Notre Dame or other nearby cross-enrolled colleges. Course hours can be arranged by telephoning M~jor Jim ~usselman at 283-6264or by contacting him at the Notre flame ROTC building. 

------------------------~--------· ·-----·-­
Tuesday, November 19, 1974 
the observer 7 

History of the team -discussed 
Notre Dame hockey coach speaks at Zahm 
by Lonnie Luna "hot hands" on, which happened to questioned. Some universities had playing good hockey," replied commented Smith. He added the Staff Reporter be the varsity teams of all the thirty-year-old Canadian stickmen Smith. du Lac defense was outstanding.other universities. that did not make the Canadian "As far as our team is con­Coach Smith added the team wonlrl 
Coach Lefty Smith of the duLac Then a major improvement to du professional playing for them," cerned, we're coming along real like more attendance at the puck hockey team talked about the Lac's spirited hockey team oc­Smith said. This put a lot of ex­well. All we need to do is eliminate st~u~gles and a band for pep-and introduction of the ice sport to curred in 1966. The A.C.C. was perience on their teams. those costly stupid mistakes," spmt. 
Notre Dame, hockey in general, built and included an ice rink. On 
Consequently, after much
and the varsity team last night in the blueprint the rink was to have a 
deliberation, the "Over-age Rule" 
Zahm Hall Chapel to a small group 400 seat capacity. With only 400 
was formed which states that
of students. seats why have a hockey team? So 
every Canadian player is ineligible
they increased the seating
Hockey came to Notre Dame in for every year he is over nineteen. 
capacity, which brings the
the times of the Four Horsemen, he us to This rule eliminated many "old
present, he commented.
stated. There was no team at that timers" and brought hockey back time but the students got together 
"The Fighting Irish joined the to the college level, he said. 
and played when St. Mary's Lake World Collegiate Hockey 
Smith added it was a shame to
froze over. But then an ice rink Association <WCHAl because it is 
ban the Canadians from hockey
was introduced across from Badin the top college hockey associati9n 
because they add so much more to
Hall. 
in the nation, and the toughest. 
the game. The Canadian is much Hockey never quite made it after Another reason we joined it was more prepared for the average
because it was tough competition
that and was almost extinct bet-class load at Notre Dame than the
and we felt we could handle it,"
ween periods of 1920 and 1964. average student because of their
Smith said.
Then the great fever in hockey hit strenuous high school curricula, he the campus once again a'nd this "We play fewer games, and the continued. time the disease was incurable, he official season does not start until "Kids should go to college, and it 
continued. Students from the next week. We play a thirty-two should be a continuation of theirChicago area and Eastern United game season, sixteen at hom" and education, not going to play two or
States formed a hockey club here sixteen on the road," he continued. three years of hockey before trying 
at the University and played The WCHA went through a series for college. They cheat themselves everybody they could get their of upheavals when rules were of a whole college career and of 
The Early Childhood Developmen1HELP! Desperately need 4 Doobie 
Center at St. Mary's would like a Tix (in front of stage). Will be 
singer with guitar to entertain at subjected to medieval torture if 1 
Christmas Party, 5:30-6:30 Dec. don't get them. Call 1108 or 1715 Fee Songs ap­
15, 1974. open.and ask for Fred. 
propriate for season and young children. Call Mrs. Pat Garreffa,4 Doobie Brothers ticket~. Call 

284-4150.

Chip, 6931. 
Phillips GA 212 electronic turn· 4 GA Air Force tickets. Call Chip table (new) Tharens TO 125 AB

6931. ' 
MKII with B 9 0 Sp 12 cartridge-2 new walnut Advents. Call 1487. 

Wanted: used short wave radio. 
Tim, 232-4927. 
Manuscripts submitted to the Fall Need ride to Cleveland, Nov. 25 or 1974 Juggler may be retrieved 
26. Call Mary, 1250. 
from the Juggler office, 3rd floor LaFortune, from 10:00 am-11 :00 Desperately need 3 GA Air Force am Tuesday, Nov. 19th, and 10:00­
tickets. Call Rod, 288-0924. 
11:00 am Thurs. Nov. 21. Art work can be rescued from Michael 

Need one GA Air Force tix. Joe, Boland. 424 Cavanaugh Hall. 3663, after 11 pm. 
Wanted: two good Doobie Bros. Rock Dreams, Tolkein, Lenny tix. Call Mike. 1152. Bruce, Hesse, Jung . . . good reading and more over> break at FOR SALE Pandora's Books. 602 N. St. Louis 
Blvd. 3-speed Schwinn, one year old. Call Brent, 8301. 
Cleveland Club: seats still available for Thanksgiving Bus. For sale: 1 Senior Trip ticket to Sign-ups in 229 Holy Cross, or call 
Southern Cal. Call Carol, 6733. Jim at 3157. 
For sale: snow tires, two F-78-14 on 
To CIA Recruiters: Please note therims. Excellent shape. Used 1000 ·undersigned are not among

miles. Call Lou, 234-8076. $35. 
"concerned students." against NOTICES 
you. Our noses and dossiers are clean. Maddog Madden, RayAttention Schnorer, Jr.

Louie's has a pool table, pizza, and 
P.S. Go CIA. Beat Army.

great beer. But don't take our word 
for it-come see for yourself. 744 N. ND. 
Students: buy your stereo 
LOST AND FOUND

equipment at Golden Dome Records, 804 Flanner, ph. 1487. 20­
Lost: small black billfold. sse, 1D,

40 percent off on all brands -Ad­drivers license. Lost last Fri nite.
vent, AR, Bose, Dual, Garrard, Very important! Reward. Call 287­Marantz, Pioneer, Sony, and much 
7656. 

more. Over 100 name brands at big 
discounts. 
Found: key chain with 3 keys near Bio Bldg. Call Jim, 8685.

World Book -"used much, stimulating, essential. 
Lost: Texas Instruments SR-50

Revised, inexpensive. Larry, 289­calculator. Reward. 277-0167.
5407. 
Lost: Help!! Lost one gold ID

Good opportunity for enterprising 
bracelet! Initials C.A.D. Pleasestudents. Established carry-out call 8093. Reward! Help!

pizza business plus living uarters and apartment. Age a I illness force sale. Owner v. 11 carry 
FOR RENT

contract with good t. ·ms. Call Sharon Deering, 289 J94, First 
Room $40 month. Near rides.

Realty, 282-2337. 
Privacy, kitchen. 233-1329. 

15 percent off on all merchandise, 
Room for rent: excellent location 

now un1il Christmas. Expert 
and conditions. Call 232-4545.

repair, quality guitars, banjos, etc. 
Sunflower Music Shop, 632 Portage Married students: nice, clean,Ave. 
furnished apartment. 3 rooms and bath, 10 min. from campus.

Records now on sale at Golden 
Available Dec. 12. $95 a month.

Dome Records, 804 Flanner, ph. 
ca11 234-1946.

1487. New Moody Blues, $9.98 list, reg. $7.70, now $7.20 total. New Elton John (just released) $9.98 Furnished apts. 503 W. Jefferson list, reg, $7.70, now $7.20. New duplex. 3 rooms each, first & Loggins & Messina $6.98 list, reg. second floors. Gas heat furnished. $4.55, now $4.25. All YES albums 289-6307, 234-0596. on sale. Also every Fri. is lad.ies day, $.50 off on all double albums, S.JO off on all single albums. PERSONALS 
CM: Are you at least interested? Give 

Annie Creedon: 
Happy 21st birthday. me a sign, a hint, anything.
Barb 



~--­

~8~_---!t.:...h.:...:e=---o:::..:::b:....:s=-e~r-=v-=e=--::....r______,_T-=-ue~s=d=ay, November 19, 1974 
--~-----------------------------~------------------------------.. 
Dillon wins IH crown; nips Hogs 
. ~ ~t.
by John Higgins 

A devastating, three-pronged minute later, the clock ran out on running attack and a fired-up the Holy Cross comeback effort 
defensive effort carried Dillon to a and the Big Red had themselves 14-6 win over North Quad cham­still another excuse for a victory
pion Holy Cross on Sunday at celebration. Cartier Field as the Big Red Dillon coach Mike Bireley,captured its fourth lnterhall retiring unbeaten in his two yearsfootball title in five seasons. as the Big Red mentor after two 
Both squads entered the successful season as a Dillon 
championship matchup via similar . lineman, was immensely pleased routes and with identical 5-Q-1 with the win and stressed the records. After notching three easy outstanding leadership on his wins over weaker opponents, team. "Our captains, Mike O'Neill Dillon met a determined Sorin and Mike Kemp, did a great job team and the outcome was a o-o both on and off the field in helpingdeadlock. Then with the division a lot of the younger players. And crown on the line, the Redmen held our other Seniors, Frank Tombari, off previously-unbeaten Morrissey Joe Riepenhoff and Homer Cun­6-0 to gain the advantage, and ningham <the only four-year Dillon clinched the post-season berth by veteran) contributed immenselyrouting Alumni in the season and their spots will be tough to fill. finale. But Dillon has a lot of good un­
Holy Cross, meanwhile, had derclassmen and we always seem opened its campaign with a trio of to get more-than-enough new narrow wins, the third a come­players, so they should be com­from-behind 8-7 decision over petitive for a long time." 
Keenan, last year's campus "It was a real good season all runnerup. A narrow victory over a around and all the teams seemed game Grace squad and a romp with the crown. to improve," said Birel~y. "That 
over lowly Zahm followed, before picked up the bulk of their yardage ferocious rush by Pete Riley, deeper into their own territory, means a lot of the interhall the Hogs met second-place the hard way--right up the middle Kevin Donohoe and Moffatt, hit on sacking Anzelon for an 11-yard program. We were real lucky to challenger Stanford, whose lone into the heart of the Hog defense. 6 of 14 passes for 91 yards. The loss. Anzelon responded with a get to where we are because we loss was to an inspired Keenan Workhorse Craig Tigh managed 66 Dillon secondary, which had short pass to Anders, who got to played some good teams especiallv bunch. With Stanford needing a yards on 23 carries and Senior Joe proved suspect against Alumni, within 4 yards of a first down. But Sorin, Morrissey, and th1s Holyvictory to force a playoff rematch Riepenhoff, a standout blocking earlier responded to hold stellar two passes fell incomplete, and a Cross team.'' for the division title, HC kept its back, garnered 63 on just 11 receiver Bedford Bruno without a opposition out of the end zone while rushes. catch and forced Anzelon to 
failing to score itself in a near­The real credit belongs however overthrow a number of his passes. blizzard last Wednesday night. with the anonymous crew who Anzelon and mates did, however, The o-o tie, which propelled Holy opened the holes for their backfield accomplish something no South Cross into the championship game, mates and controlled the line of Quad team could do this season­
was very nearly a Stanford vic­scrimmage throughout tight end put points on the scoreboard 
The Irish Eye

tory, but a 65-yard touchdown pass Bob Mouch; tackles Rod Rodrique against the Big Red. 
was called back on a procedure and Timmy Cunningham; guards The Hogs defense, highlighted by penalty and neither team could Roy Kolstad and Lou Brien; and the play of Mike Michalek, Mike muster much offense after that on center Frank Tombari. Fitzgerald, and Joe Anders, held 
the sloshy field. The Big Red got rolling right Dillon to just 4 yards in the second Dillon stayed with a standard from the start, traveling 65 yards period as the offense finally got a game plan which has proved so in 15 plays on the opening series chance to test the Red "D." An­
The silliness of early bowl bids reached new heights this past weekend successful in the past. Throwing which consumed all but a minute of zelon could get his team no closer when Sugar-Bowl bound Florida was humiliated by underdog Kentucky just three times, completing one the first quarter. O'Neill ac­than the Dillon 45 on his first two 41-24. The Gators are now 7-3 having lost two games in a row since ac­for a single yard on the game's counted for the majority of the possessions, and time ran out in cepting a bid to the New Orleans classic two weeks ago. 
first play, the Big Red Machine ran distance, dashing 23 and 16 yards the half with Holy Cross Florida's Sugar Bowl opponent, Nebraska, creamed Kansas State 35-7,over, around, and through the Holy behind blocks by halfback Tom threatening at the 35. 
but the Cornhuskers are already 8-2 and they still have Oklahoma toCross defense for 216 yards on 49 Faiver before sweeping left end for Holy Cross continued to move play this weekend. For the Sugar Bowl, two 8-3 teams is quite acarries. The grind-it-<~ut, ball­the final 3 yards and the first 6 after intermission, crossing into comedown from last year's Alabama-Notre Dame championship match. 
points. Tigh then hulled over right Dillon territory, but defensive
control Dillon offense ran a The Cotton Bowl won't be much better with Penn State facing the
whopping total of 52 plays to 31 for tackle for the two-point conversion captain Mike Kemp forced a winner of the Southwest Conference. The Nittany Lions are 8-2, but they the Hogs. to up the margin to s-o. fumble, and Karl Weyand have Pittsburgh to play and no SWC team will come into the game on NewSenior quarterback Mike O'Neill The Dillon defense, with tackle recovered at the HC 49 to set up the Year's with less than two losses. 
directed the Red offense flawlessly Karl Weyand playing his finest second Dillon score. 
The Rose Bowl should be OK. USC or UCLA against Ohio State or game of the year, shut off the Holy Tigh picked up 23 yards,
and contributed 82 yards on 11 Michigan could be interesting. The matchup will be settled-this weekend. 
carries and both touchdowns as the Cross running game, allowing but carrying on 6 of the first 7 plays, 
The Pitt Panthers were snubbed by the Liberty Bowl. Committeeleading ground gainer of the day. 49 yards on 17 carries. Quar­and then O'Neill took over and chairman Tim Treadwell III bumped the Panthers and announced that 
He was supported by a pair of terback Mark Anzelon was forced scooted 23 yards behind a key the winner of the Kentucky-Tennessee game would oppose Maryland in to go to tl:le air. and plagued by a block by Roy Kolstad for the TD.
hard-drivine: running backs who the Dec. 16 contest in Memphis. Kentucky is 6-4 while the Volunteers are
Tigh's try fortwowas inches short, 
5-3-1. Pitt is 7-3, and if it beats Penn State this week, the Liberty Bowl
and the Holy Cross deficit 
peoplewill look pretty stupid. 
remained at 14-0. 
It looks as if the only bowl which is going to get lucky this year is the 
The goose egg did not last much 
Orange Bowl, especially if Notre Dame and Alabama win the rest of their
longer, though, and Holy Cross 
games. Nonetheless, it's the best matchup yet. 
ended its scoring frustrations on 
Apparently.neitber . bowl committees nor the TV people will ever see
the final play of the third quarter. 
the logic of waiting until December to decide opponents. If they all
Faced with a 3rd-and-9 after
OBSERVER 
weren't so greedy and exercised a little patience, maybe there could be a
retaking possession, Anzelon found 
"national championship" game every year.
Duke for a 39 yard completion to the Dillon 30. Larry McCrief, who 
The Irish Eye's top twenty: Weekend Result Position last week 
netted 24 yards on 6 carries, picked 
SPORTS 
up 9 of those after a first down pass 
was nearly intercepted, and Paul 1.) Oklahoma (9-Q) Beat Kansas 45-14 1 Martuscello (22 yards on 5 rushes) 2.) Alabama (10-Q) Beat Miami 28-7 2 burrowed for another first down. 3.) Michigan (10-Q) Beat Purdue 51-o 3 
Then Anzelon surprised the Big 4.) Ohio State (9-1) Beat Iowa 35-10 4 Red, faking a pitchout and slipping 5.) Notre Dame (8-1) Beat Pittsburgh 14-10 5 the ball to wingback Duke, who 6.) Auburn (9-1) Beat Georgia 17-13 6 weaved 19 yards for the TD on his 7.) Nebraska (8-2) Beat Kansas State 35-7 7
Two ND runners qualify 
only carry ofthe day. Weyand was 8.) Southern Cal (7-1-1) Beat Washington 42-11 10 on top of Anzelon before 1\e left the 9.) Texas A&M (8-2) Beat Rice 37-7 8 
line to smother the conversion 10.) North Carolina State (9-2) Beat Arizona State 35-14 11
lor nationals: team fails attempt, but the Hogs still had a 11.) Miami <Ohio (9-Q-1) Beat Cincinnati 27-7 15 
full period to close the gap. 12.) Maryland (7-3) Beat Duke 56-13 17 University's h-illy 6 mile layout on Mistakes prevented any further 13.) H?us~on (7-2) Beat Memphis State 13-10 13 by Pat Holleran Monday, Nov. 25. scoring, and Holy Cross could not 14.) M1ch1gan State (6-3-1) Beat Indiana 19-10 unranked Outside of the 5 squads which take advantage of some unac­15.) Penn State (8-2) Beat Ohio 35-16 1~ 
The Cross-Country team ended advanced to the nationals as customed Dillon charity. The Red 16.) California (7-2-1) Beat Washington State 37-33 19 its season on a good note last teams, only Notre Dame and Ohio started the period with a time­17.) Pittsburgh (7-3) Lost to Notre Dame 14-10 12 Saturday in the District IV State could advance as many as consuming drive, featuring the 18.) Florida (7-3) Lost to Kentucky 41-24 9 Qualifying Race at the University two individuals, and the Irish running of Joe Riepenhoff, but a 19.) Texas (7-3) Beat TCU 81-16 20 
of Wisconsin advancing two barely missed qualifying three as a fumble recovery at the 29 and a 20.) Baylor (6-3) Beat Texas Tech 17-lO unranked runners to the nationals, although great finish by Jim Reinhart left personal foul against Dillon gave failing to qualify as a team. him only three places short of Holy Cross a golden opportunity. 
The Irish finished lOth in a race qualifying in 33rd. Mike Housely in They quickly relinquished the and the worst ten: dominated by Eastern Michigan, 68th and Marc Boivin in 90th closed advantage, though, and Kevin whose runners grabbed 2nd, 3rd, out N.D.'s team scoring. Donohoe recoverd the bobble at the 1.) Wake Forest (0-10) Lost to South Carolina 1 and 4th positions. Craig Virgin of Coach Piane said that "Joe and HC 39. 2.) Colunbia 0-7) Lost to Penn 2 Illinois remained undefeated this Jim certainly deserved their ex­A 9-yard Riepenhoff gallop gave 3.) U ofT Arlington 0-9) Lost to Arkansas State 42-12 3 season in running away with the cellent finish after an entire Dillon a first down inside the 25, as 4.) Flo~ida State 0-9) Lost to Virginia Tech 56-21 7 individual title. summer and fall of hard work," the Red tried to pad their lead, but 5.) Ind1ana 0-9) Lost to Michigan State 19-10 6 
Notre Dame's qualifiers were and he promised the Notre Dame Tigh was hit hard after a 6-yard _, 6.) TCU 0-9) Lost to Texas 81-16 9 Joe Yates, who finished 16th, and pair would be ready for the meet pickup and Duke recovered for one'. 7.) Utah 0-8) Lost to Utah State 5 Jim Hurt, who finished 30th. next Monday. The top 25 finishers last Holy Cross try. . · 8.) Rice (1-7-1) Lost to Texas A&M 37-7 unranked They'll run in the national in the nationals are designated Weyand came up with another 9. Sy~acuse (2-8) Lost to Boston College unranked championships at Indiana cross-country All-Americans. big play to drive the Hogs even 10. A1r Force (2-8) Lost to Arizona 27-24 10 
The 1974 lnterhall season ended Sunday afternoon with the Big Red of Dillon defeating Holy Cross 14-6. Dillon's victory marks the fourth time in the last five years that the Big Red has walked away 









