On The Inside 
Black vs. Brademas ... page 3 Lightfoot review .•. page 5 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Monday, October 14, 1974

Vol. IX, No. 33 
$22 and $18 


Basketball compromise 
•

lowers season pass pr1ces 
by Bob Mader 
Staff Reporter 

A compromise has been reached on the price of this year's student basketball tickets by Student Body President Pat McLaughlin and University Executive Vice-President Fr. Edmund Joyce. Nineteen hundred cushion seats will be made available to students in elass order beginning with seniors, at $22 per ticket, and 3500 bleacher seats will be sold at $18 per ticket. 
The referendum held Friday indicated that approximately 60 percent of the students were in favor of a compromise and 40 percent were in favor of a boycott. About 2000 studeqts responded to the referendum. McLaughlin stated that although no one likes the idea of 
prices, a boycott would be unsuccessful if 60 percent of the student body or even 1200 students -the number who voted for the compromise J<'riday -decided to buy tickets anyway. . . 
McLaughlin said that the compromise .w1ll 
"the best offer we'll get" with the priCes being reduced from the original offer and the total number of seats increased. Cushion seats, offered at $28 per ticket in the original proposal, will be sold for $22. The number of cushion seats has remained unchanged from last year. 
$18 bleacher seats 

Rleacher seats, originally offered at $21 per ticket, will be sold for $18. The total number of tickets has been increased by 400 over last vear's allotment of 5000, and 400 tickets will be offered to St. Mary's students, instead of 
278. St. Mary's students will also be able to buy any remaining Notre Dame student tickets before they are put up for public sale. 
Fr. Joyce pointed out that the University is dependent on gate receipts, especially basketball gate receipts, to cover the year­round expenses of the ACC. As long as gate receipts are adequate in covering expenses, the students will not be charged a "building activities fee" or a proportionate tuition in­crease, Fr. Joyce continued. "As an alter­native to such a charge on all students, we have felt it was more equitable to charge, on a discounted basis, those students who enjoy and attend the basketball games. It would seem to me that most students would agree this is a reasonable policy." 
Apology to 0-C students McLaughlin stated the referendum was used by Student Government to get a better grasp on what the student body felt in relation to the increases. He apologized to the off­campus students for not including them in the referendum but indicated this happened for a number of reasons. The usual turnout of off-campus students for such a referendum is not very large, and furthermore, it was not intended to be a vote for or against a compromise, but simply a rough indication of what the student body felt. Student Government was hampered by a lack of time to publicize the referendum, and since Friday's Observer was late. arriving, many off-campus students did not see the notice to come up to the Student Government offices and state their preferences. 
Reasons for compromise 

"We were truly astounded at the reaction of the student body to the announcement of increased ticket prices for 1974-75," Fr. Joyce related. "The charge of $2.00 per game for the lower arena seats and $1.50 per game for the upper arena seats seemed to us, and stills seems, eminently reasonable. It represents a 50 percent discount on the face value of the tickets. It is not out of line with the policy of other schools." 
McLaughlin said this compromise was chosen over the others for two reasons. First of all, in the other compromise which was discussed, the number of cushion seats would have been reduced from 1900 to 1000. Each time that a price increase would be con­sidered, McLaughlin felt that the number of cushion seats would slowly dwindle away. Eventually, all students would be forced to sit in the bleachers. He said this is one precedent that should not be set. 
Secondly, since all seats were the same price last year, McLaughlin felt that it was Pxtremely unfair to let the brunt of the price increase be carried by the juniors and seniors. He went on to say that Student Government could have accepted a $21-$14 plan. but the number of good seats available to juniors and seniors would have decreased while their price would have been the only one to increase. McLaughlin stated that in his opinion, it would be only fair that a price increase be carried by everyone, not specific classes. 
Future price increase 
McLaughlin reiterated that the total number of seats has increased from last year, and the number of seats available to St. Mary's students has increased from the original proposal. Also, the price of cushion seats per game will average $1.57, and the price of bleacher seats available to students will average $1.28 per game. 
In his statement, Fr. Joyce said he strongly expects next year's prices to increase to $28 for a cushion seat and $21 for a bleacher seat. McLaughlin said he interprets this to be a forewarning, but definitely not a final decision. A price increase next year will depend on the trend of costs, and McLaughlin explained that he has committed himself to looking into other means of covering costs in the remaining months of his term. He said he hopes his successor would feel the same way, and he is confident something can be worked out. 
Freshman lottery 
When asked about the possibility of a fresh­man lottery, McLaughlin said he has yet to figure out why the matter was even brought up. He pointed out that last year, when it was expected that we would have one of Notre Dame's best basketball teams, student demands did not come near exceeding the quantity of tickets. Last year, about 4800 tickets were sold to ND-SMC students out of a possible 5000, and the SBP said he cannot foresee how there would be an increased demand of 600 tickets over last year. He said the chances of a freshman lottery are close to zero. 
However, in the event that in the future demand dooes exceed the supply, McLaughlin said he and Fr. Joyce have agreed that ac­comodations will be made to see that every student who wants a ticket would get one. 
McLaughlin said he realized everyone will not be happy with the decision, but pointed out that this the case with all difficult decisions. He feels in view of the fact that some students would have bought tickets anyway, or boycotted no matter what the prices were, that this is the best possible decision. 
Boycott situation 
If some students are still in favor of boycotting, McLaughlin said they would be on their own, but as the results of the referen­dum show, a total boycott by the student body would be unsuccessful. He said rather than leading an unsuccessful boycott with many students still !::mying tickets, it would be better to accept a compromise where those students buying tickets would not have to pay the full increase. 
McLaughlin concluded by saying that Digger and the team will be happy to have the support of most of the students. "No matter what would've happened they would've been losers in a sense. I hope that has been resolved as well." 
McLaughlin thanked the student body for their help and asked for their support. 


Rockefeller damaged for vice-presidency 
By EDWARD K. DeLONG WASHINGTON (UPI) 
Nelson A. Rockefeller's chances for smooth confirmation as vice­president were damaged-perhaps seriously-by his <acceptance of responsibility for a derogatory campaign book and his disclosure of massive gift-giving, members of Congress said Sunday. 
"There's no doubt it's a deteriorati!lg situation."said Rep. Don Edwards, D-Calif., a member of the Judiciary Committee which is holding Rockefeller's confirmation hearings in the House. 
Opinions varied on how far Rockefeller's confirmation has been set back. Sen Howard Cannon, D-Nev., chairman of the Rules Committee 
which is handling Rockefeller's confirmation in the Senate, said a vote on the nomination might be delayed until late December by the new developments. 
Edwards said the House might vote on confirmation by the first week in December. But Rep. Wayne Hays, D-Ohio, said there is a possibility the confirmation process would be slowed so much by new hearings that no action could be taken until after a new Congress is in session next year. 
"I might tell you if it goes over to the next Congress, I don't think that improves his chances," Hays said. 
Cannon told UPI in a telephone interview that his committee "in aJl probability" would recall Rockefeller to testify about the book and about his gifts worth more than $2 million to 21 political associates, aides and friends between 1957 and 1974. 
The book for which Rockefeller accepted "full responsibility" was a derogatory biography about former Supreme Court Justice Arthur J. Goldberg published in 1970 when Goldberg was opposing Rockefeller for the New York governorship. It was written by author Victor Lasky and published with a $60,000 investment by Rockefeller's brother Laurance. 
The gifts included $50,000 to Henry A. Kissinger in 1969, before Kissinger joined the Nixon administration; $625,000 between 1958 and 1974 to Dr. William J. Ronan, head of the New York port chairman L. Judson Morhouse, who was imprisoned on a bribery conviction in 1960 and whose sentence was commuted by Rockefeller in 1970. 
"I think this is exactly the kind of thing we've gone through the last few months in the Watergate affair and we don't want to see repeated," Sen. William Proxmire, D-Wis., said in a televised interview ABC-TV Issues and Answers. 
"I think this puts the Rockefeller nomination in jeopardy." But Rep. John J. Rhodes, D-Ariz., said in the same interview: "I think it's not in any permanent jeopardy." 

the observer _Monday, October 14, 1974 
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON --UPI-Sen. Thomas F. E.1gleton Sunday accused the Navy and Air Force chiefs of staff of keeping secret from Defense Secretary James Schlesinger tests which revealed that a new Air Force jet outperformed a Navy jet which costs far more to build. 
DELAND, Fla. UPI--Nineteen inmates were injured Saturday night in a disturbance at a county prison farm which officials said "as racially motivated. 
Corrections officials reported Sunday tempers were still "run­ning a little high" but there had been no further outbreaks of violPnce at the Volusia County Prison Farm. 
lSRAEL-UPI--Israeli artillery blasted five targets in southeastern Lebanon intermittently for 90 minutes before dawn Sunday and damaged fields and crops, agriculture areas, Arab newsmen in southern Lebanon reported. 
M~X1CO CITY, UPI--The presiding bishop of the U.S. Episcopal Church said Sunday he would appose calling a special convention of the sect to authorize the ordination of women priests, as some Episcopalian bishops have proposed. 
CARACAS. UPI--The chairman of the Inter-American Press Asociations' freedom of the press committee said Sunday the organization will condemn the Central Intelligence Agency for giving money to opposition newspapers in Chile. 

an campus taday 
9 am--5pm--lntervlews, peace corps and vista, mem. lib. con­course. 
3:15pm--discussion, Informal discussion with abigail mccarthy, mem. lib. lounge. 
3:30 pm--lecture, "marslllus of padua" by dr. friedrich prlnz, mem. lib. medieval inst. rm. 715. 
5 pm--vespers, evensong, log chapel. 

8,10 pm--film, executive action, $1, washington hall. 
8 pm--lecture, abigail mccarthy spons. american studies prog., mem. lib. lounge and aud. 
8pm--lecture, "internal forces of european unity" by dr. friedrich prinz, area program reading rm., 1201 mem. lib. 

NDalwnni give $3million 
~1111111111un111111111111111 illlllllllllllllllnmnmnnnmnnmmmlnmnmnmllllllllllllllt111 lllllllll
Eli Ginzberg to present lecture 


! ~ NICKlE'S i ~ 
at Notre Dame §= §= 
Dr. Eli Ginzberg,, Columbia § E University professor and author of more than 40 books dealing with 
I 
= 
human resources and manpower, will present the first Cardinal O'Hara Memorial Lecture of the semester at 3:30 p.m. Wednesday <Oct. 16) in the Memorial Library Auditorium of the University of Notre Dame. Topic of the talk, 
FOOTBALL SPECIAL! 
open to the public, is "The Role of 
Values in National Economic 
Policy." 
A long time consultant to the 
federal government, the Depart­ment of State, Defense, Labor, ; 3 FOR $1.00 FROM THE 
Health, Education and Welfare, as = 
well as private and corporate 
enterprises, Ginzberg has been for OPENING KICKOFF TO
I
40 years a member of the graduate 
school of business faculty at THE FINAL GUN
Columbia. He is A. Barton Hep­
burn professor of economics and 
has served since its inception as EVERY MONDAY 
director of the Conservation of 
Human Resources at Columbia. 
His Notre Dame talk will open 
TELL NCK YOU SAW IT
with a consideration of inter­values
relations between and FIRST IN Tt-E OBSERVER
~ 
economic decision-making in 
iii1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111~
federal government, taking into 
consideration the conflicting in­
*+-**********************************
terests of critical groups. Focus 
: N 0 T R E DAM E & ST. MARY'S :
will then be directed to the 
decision-making of the post-World 
: SOCIAL COMMISSIONS :
War II era in matters of man­
power, foreign trade, equal em­
*: PRESENT OCTOBERFEST '74 :* 
ployment and control of inflation. Generalizations about the dynamic interrelations between values and * * economic policy will be distilled in a concluding section. 
iJOHN SEBASTIANi 
~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;~ 
1 *TONYS* I ** **
* * 
llll SHOE SHOP I * *
* * 
* *
* *
ico::::T:::~:~~ J* ** ** * 
r TOP BRAND FOOTWEAR :::: 
~ ,. i
KNAPP SHOES LEATHER AND * *
* * 
ZIPPER REPAIR 
~ THURSDAY OCTOBER 17 ~ 
ACCESSORIES : 8:00 p.m. IN CONCERT ~ 
tributed, compared with a national A record number and percentage average of about 18 per cent. The of University of Notre Dame total amount contributed was 
i STEPAN CENTER i
alumni gave $3,339,046 to the in­$52,000 under the record set in 1966. QUICK SERVICE stitution in the fiscal year ending The highest rate of participation REASONABLE : TICKETS: $3.00. ON SALE MONDAY OCT. : last June 30, the second highest was set by the university's 
OPEN 8-6 MON-FRI 
amount in Notre Dame history, the youngest aluni, with two-thirds of * 7 AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET * 
9-4 SAT
University's Development the Class of 1973 giving. Illinois led Department has reported. all states in the number of alumni *~ OFFICE & THE DINING HALLS *;
PH 283-1144 Fifty-nine per cent of the contributing (3,102) and the total amount contributed ($565,913).
school's solicited alumni con-************************************ 

ACT NOW FOR LIFE! 
WEAR THE CIRCLE OF LIFE BRACELET A SYMBOL OF PROTEST A SYMBOL OF RESPECT 
The U.S. Supreme Court rrode its historic decision on abortion on Jan. 22, 1973. The life bracelet is to be worn until that decision is reversed. It is being sold 
for $3.00 by NO students in defense of life. 
To order call NO 8702 1312 1992 SMC 4605 
·------~-·-----~----·­
Monday, October 14, 1974 the observer 3 
l 

Black runs against Brademas 
by Brian Clancy 
President Ford is making a Staff Reporter mistake by, " ...listening to the 
same economic advisors 
After the Bayh-Lugar contest, responsible for the disastrous the next most important duel to be economic policies of the Nixon decided by local residents on administration." election day will be the third Brademas has proposed a four­district Congressional race, pitting pronged attack which he feels the Republican Virginia Black against government should take soon to 
incumbent Democrat John alleviate the impact of inflation Brademas. 
and recession on those hardest and Black, a Roman Catholic who most immediately affected. has been a high school teacher and His attack consists of: (1) cuts 
homemaker in South Bend for 16 in federal spending on wasteful years, is running on a pro-life activities; (2) a reduction in 
platform against Brademas, who personal income taxes for middle she said has voted twice in and low-income families; (3) a Congress in favor of bills boost in loan funds for housing, 
allocating funds for abortions. consumer purchases and small 
A graduate of Seton Hill College business; and (4) an expanded in Pennsylvania, Black decided to program of public service jobs. run because "Someone has to do Black feels that the major something to stop the murder of problem with the economy is two million innocent children." "foolish government spending." 
A spokesman for Brademas said She pointed out instances in the that the Democrat has not yet past where Congress has allocated decided how he would vote on a 
thousands of dollars for such proposed "Right-to-Life" amend­During his previous eight terms studies as: "Why do people say ment, because he wants to see Brademas has been very active in ain't?" "Why do children fall off of the specific wording of the educational legislation, serving for tricycles?" and one to determine amendment 15 years on the House Education the odor of the sweat of Aborigines 
Brademas, a member of the and Labor committee. Last year, in Australia. First United Methodist Church he was appointed Chief Deputy Black also feels that Ford's who is a graduate of Harvard and a Majority Whip by Speaker of the recent 5 percent surtax went too former Rhodes scholar, is seeking House Carl Albert. low in its scope, because "as it 
his ninth consecutive term in of­Regarding the national stands many people with relatively fice. economy, Brademas feels that low incomes will be affected." Both candidates agreed that Ford'spardon of former President 
Nixon was a mistake and that it 
served to establish "a double 
standard of justice in the country.'' 
Dean discusses plans with 

Frosh Advisory Council 
On the nomination of NelsonThe Freshman Advisory Council such as the scene of the Rockefeller for Vice President,met with Dean Emil T. Hofman for Revolutionary War. The program however, the candidates oncethe second time yesterday at the would be at the student's expense, again parted paths. BrademasUniversity Faculty Club for dinner but would be considerably less hailed Rockefeller's nominationand discussion. Curriculum and with the tour group than in­because "His long service as aand vacation plans for freshman dividually. 
chief executive of a major state were major items of concern ex­Council members expressed and his considerable pressed by the freshman concern with the cost of different 
represen ta tives. University activities. Hofman said 
HAROLD MEDOW
Hofman explained that in the that freshmen will need to learn past, the Freshman Year Office that during their four years at the 
USED CARS
has provided activities for Fresh­University, nothing will be free, 
men during these periods. He and students should come to a 
AND TRUCKS
questioned Council member~ as to reality about expenses. 
how many freshmen actually stay "Instructors feel that they are 
on campus during the breaks. It subsidizing the cost of the 
was a general consensus of the student's education through their 
members that most Freshmen salary," Hofman explained. 
were planning to return home or "Furthermore, students do not 
find other accomodations with realize that the University is 
roommates or friends for th-e ranked about 167th out of all the 
•

LaFayette
Midsemester break. Proposals Universities and colleges in the 
made for students remaining on nation for their cost of tuition, and 
at LaSalle 
campus were a trip to Chicago, they still remain close to the 
viewing of the USC-Notre Dame bottom for room and board 
Phone 233-2139 
football game, and spontaneous charges." 
programs during the October Hofman also announced that the vacation period. Hofman also Freshman Year office will begin a offered the council an idea for serious review of the Freshman sponsoring a "Tour America" curriculum. He said a report program, during the spring break would be published in the Observer for course credit. Notre Dame in the near future. Among the faculty members would be invited proposals were new methods in to accompany the tour to an area Freshman mathematics courses. 
~~~~~~~---~~---~~~~~~ 
PRESENTING: I the 1\Aonday night special t t 12'' pizza--$1.50 
t 
t

DRAFT 25ct 
t

Eat, drink, and be entertained by live music nightly <except Tuesday> AT t 
t


VVHITE HOUSE INN 
t 

Now Playing I
no 
t

;·KETQ-1_! LeEver
........... cnurge 
t 

f  2839  N  5th  t  
:  Ju" 8 mL north of tho atalo Uno.  683-9 842  t  
t  Take U.S. 31 north to Niles, then north on highway 5  3  miles.  t  






~----------------' 

with foreign policy clearly qualify him." 
Black, on the other hand, is opposed to Rockefeller because of his actions as Governor of New York. Rockefeller was governor when New York's controversial abortion legislation was passed. 
One of Brademas' chief ac­complishments in the House was the Higher Education Act of 1972 which established the Basic Op­portunity Grants and Guaranteed Student Loans programs. This bill was designed to help both low and middle income students to finance their college educations. 
Black feels that her lack of political experience is to her benefit. "I am starting fresh, I can't be blamed as a Republican for Watergate, and I also have no ties to anyone," she said. 

Black emphasized that 85 per­cent of Brademas' contributions are from outside of his district. "If I'm elected," she said, "I can 
represent just the people in my district." 
Black further pointed out that her campaign is hurting severely from a lack of funds. On Sep­tember 10, when both candidates declared their contributions, Brademas had over $80,000 compared to Black's $3,000. 



Committees on 
Appointments 
and Promotions 

To !h£' Editor: 
In fairness to the individuals involved, we the undersigned are calling for a cessation to the discussion of personalities in the controversy which has developed around the appointment of a new C'hairman in the Department of Sociology and Anthropology. Consistent with this call, there must also be a halt to the release of confidential documents concerning this case. Many of our colleagues, as we, are appalled by the public release of statements which they were willing to sign within a context of "guaranteed" con­fidentiality--violation of this guarantee can destroy the open and honest discussions which are essential to the proper functioning of committees such as the Com­mittee on Appointments and Promotions.<CAPl. 
Instead of using the pages of The Obst"rver as a forum for the discussion of individuals, we would like to see an identification and a discussion of the signigicant issues which this case has raised. As openers, we list a series of questions which have emerged from the controversy, the answers to which are critical to the welfare of the administrators, faculty, and students of Notre Dame. 
1. 
What are the rights and responsibilities of the CAP relative to the appointment of a Depart­ment Chairman? Are these rights and responsibilities modified in rmy way when a Search Committee 1s established by a Department or 1 Dean? 

2. 
Are there any conditions in which the administration can legitimatelv make an appointment to a Department without a specific recommendatiOn of the CAP? 

3. 
Can the administraitor lpgitimately grant tenure to ar. tnl'oming faculty member without recommendation of the CAP? 

4. 
After the CAP and a Depart­rnl•nt provide advice and con­sultation on appointment, promotion or tenure <as required by the Academic Manual), what are the responsibilities of the Dean to the CAP and Department, especially if he disagrees with the CAP? 


DOONESBURY 
5. 
What recourse does the faculty have when a member of the administration violates the Academic Manual? 

As background for the next two questions,· it is necessary to provide some relevant data. In the College of Arts and Letters 9 Chairman were appointed­reappointed for the present academic year. Of these 9, all are Catholic and 7 are Notre Dame graduates. Consequently, 14 of the 15 Arts and Letters Chairmen are Catholics and 9 have received at least one degree from Notre Dame. 

6. 
What are the short and long­term implications for the students and faculty of Notre Dame of such 


consistent decisions in the ap­pointment of Chairmen? 
7. Does the adminstration's exhibited preferences for Chair­men actually amount to a discriminatory bias? If this preference means that a non­Catholic candidate is not eligible for appointment to the Chair­manship at Notre Dame, can the university legitimately claim to be "an equal opportunity employer" <which it does claiml? What are the implications of this question for the Fair Employment Op­portunities Commission? What are the implications for the Notre Dame acceptance of funds from the Federal Government? 
We hope that in the future our debate will focus on the issues, rather than on the individuals who were or were not selected for the Chairmanship. 
Sincerely yours, 
David L. Dodge 
Frank J. Fahey 
Hichard A. Lamanna 
Julian Samora Jost"ph Scott 
\1\here WLL It 
Stop? 
Dear Sirs: Students squeezed by fiscal vices, And struggling with tuition prices Were not amused when they were told That they'd be left out in the 
cold.( Again.) 
Permit me now to set the stage 
And cite the reasons for the rage. <Among students.) 
The Observer is my creditor, 
Its letters to the editor Informed me of an awful deed. <A price increase I hardly need.) Now basketball is getting bigger, Thanks to efforts of King Digger 

. (And his court. l But as the team and rankings grow. So up, I'm told, the prices go. (To see the action.) And by some tricky jurisprudence, The rules allow St. Mary's students To send, at best, a meager 
fraction As token viewers of the action. Now there are reasons, I sur­
mise, For ticket prices on the rise. Three baskets will soon grace 
thee floor. · <So Irish teams more points can score. l 
And Digger's teams won't freeze on courts, Since they'll be clad in furlined shorts. The coach should keep in step 
with fads, So I suggest we buy his plaids. Advise your date, the treat is 
Dutch, Since tickets now cost twice as much Though shocked I was, I'm more 
inclined, To force the issue from my mind. For lam told that hardy 
creatures Survive the season in the 
bleachers. Yet one concern I think I share, With those who sit in thinner air. When lesser foes the team is 
beating, Who will stop my nose from bleeding? Thomas A. Pearson 
\1\here Is 
Freedom? 
Dear Editor: 
Where can Freedom go? If the University listens to the words of Tom Drape's editorial of 8 Oct. 1974, freedom will be just another word with no reality at Notre Dame. Because of the nature of campus life, i.e. maids, dining hall, and laundry, and because of the Administration's emphasis on their new morality, freedom is limited to the point of non­existence. Even with all the problems of off campus living, at least we are free from the sore matter of in loco parentis. Mr. Drape, do not suggest that the University as a land lord to the off­campus students, for then we are back to the dorm life all over again without the conveniences of on campus life. At least allow a choice between life styles at ND. The value of individual freedom and the new value of moral character should be allowed to co­exist. The value of a Notre Dame academic education is worthwhile. 
Must, however, we all be sub­jected to the ND bureaucracy in the running of our every day and non-academic lives? One of the first orders of freedom is the ability to make mistakes and live with the consequences of one's actions. Living off-campus is one of the most wholesome ex­periences a student can have at ND for his personal development. The more the University operates in the off-campus affairs the more responsibility it will assume-­responsibility that allows those off­campus their very freedom. Can you not see A. Pears asking for your decal before you park in your driveway or the dean of students checking your house or apartment each night for parietal violation? 
The main point to be made here is not the issue of student security or Notre Dame administrative policies. The main point is that in order to maintain a level of in­dependence-freedom, one must accept responsibility for one's actions. If the University enters the scene, it will pre-empt that responsibility as it has done on campus by not allowing choices to be made. Pressuring the South Bend authorities to carry out their duties effectively in regard to stud is the only function the University should carry out off­campus. Or else, where can freedom go? 
J. Seth 
Like Lambs to 
the Slaughter 
Editor: 
As a Notre Dame student and a human being, I am outraged at the one-sided controversy now in progress over revision of the sexual code. The absurdity of allowing the Notre Dame Ad­ministration to dictate the extent of human relationships is all too apparent; however, the student body, typically, is meeting the dictum with childish sub­missiveness. The administrations priorities, in order, appear to be alumni, academia, and catholicism, with the individual students importance following far down the list. 
If Bro. JustPaczesny'scomments (Oct. 7) are an indication of the thought involved, it is a mockery to call Notre Dame a place of open learning. His vapid Catholic platitudes (note Catholic, not Christian, Brother) were an insult to the intelligence, and a typical administration response to their students. 
It will be disappointing, but not unexpected, if the student body allows the SLC to retain present prohibitions on premarital sex. The N.D. student, indoctrinated into being concerned about panty raids and steak days, must wake up and make noise. If the rule holds neverthelesss, I may_ be among those going off-campus voluntarily. We won't be leaving the flock, though; just the sheep. 
Respectfully, Mike Shaffer 336 Keenan 
NO WAY. 

GOING 7lJ HAVe HAN, YOV 
TO L.Er YOV 60. 
CROSS NO-MAN'S·LAND, THROUGH THE ENEMY WIRE, CAPTURE INFLATION AND REPORT BACK HERE-GO GET 'EM, CORPORAL MIDDLECLASSI' 
by Garry Trudeau 
} 
-)~@. 
SORI?.Y, 14/AL.T&I?.­tOOKS /..IKe I'M HEY, C/lfo#, 
the observer 
Night Editor . Andy Praschak Ass't Night Editor -Marlene Zlosa Layout · Maggie Waltman, Sue Martha Fanning Copy Reader . Pat Hanifin Day Editor -Ken Girouard Editorials · Ken Girouard 
Features · Norm Bower, Robert Baker Sports -Greg Corgan Typists · Camille Arrieh, Janet Carney, Donald Roos, Neil VIII Rick Huber Compugraphic Operator -Morey Bilndere Picture Screener -Albert 0'Antonio Nlght Controller -Dave Rust 
;?J"Pf-/«AVQl'*~ 
.:~ ~Ofi 
. ' \ 
Zwick, 


--------------~~~~~~~~----~ 
gordon and the soundman 
a revi€\N by john zygmunt 
"This town reminds me of Salt Lake City, After an impromptu blues number withGordon Lightfoot ambled onstage last 
Friday at 8:48, and although the show went kind of dry ... We always fall on our asses in guitarist Clements, he did the song I think Salt Lake City, too." 
best symbolizes his career, "Minstrel of the
on till 11:20-nearly two-and-a-half hours, an Dawn," with the lyrics:extraordinary amount of time for a solo Problems temporarily solved, he followed 
acoustic performer -the audience of 5,000 would have surely stayed for more. During 
soon after with a brilliant rendition of a song lle'd talk of life out on the street 
that period Lightfoot began thirty-four cycle made up of the compositions "Affair He'd play it sad, and call it sweet different songs, everything from "Sun­on Eighth Avenue," and the audience Listen to the pictures flow down" to "Hello My Ragtime Doll," and favorite "If You Could Read My Mind." The Across the room into your soul. proved once again his great stature as a 
emotions the two songs provoked ran together perfectly and combined with an There followed an unexpected oldies butsinger-songwriter is well deserved. 
excellent performance by Lightfoot made goodies medley of such songs as "In the The audience was won over instantly by for one of the highlights of the concert. Mood," and "Willow Titwillow," which left the audience and Lightfoot in laughter.
spirited versions of "High and Dry," and Lightfoot intended to close his first set"'Tennessee Stud," both of which demon­
with the moving vignette "Miguel" but near He closed the second set with ("One of thestrated early the great affinity that has developed over the years between Lightfoot the end of the song the speakers popped greatest songs I've ever written") 
loudly, unnerving the audience and the "Canadian Railroad Tri.logy." The audience and his great musical team of lead guitarist 
stage crew. Lightfoot finished the song but greeted the end of the song with a standingTerry C'lements. and bassman Rich Haynes. 
his first reaction -<"Holy ----, what was ovation and despite the lateness of the hour "Sundown" was also played early in the 
that~··) -showed his feelings. called him back for an encore. Lightfooteoncert, Lightfoot not wishing to use it at the 
seemed amazed and asked, "How much
end. instead sensing the crowd's an­ticipation for the tune. Lightfoot later ex­Perhaps unnerved himself he went ahead more of this can you take?" which was plained the origins of this hit: "I wrote this and closed the first set with a long tirade answered by assorted shouts urging him to against "Rolling Stone" which culminated continue. He then closed the concert with
when my buddy went out and layed my girlfriend . . there's a price for 
in the dedication of the song "Cold on the the whimsical "Pony Man." everything." Shoulder" to the magazine. 
As he was leaving, he set something of a After a twenty-minute intermission, first for the ACC by stopping in the hallway The motif of search that runs through all 
Lightfoot returned and recaptured the as he exited to sign autographs and talk toof Lightfoot's work was the subject of "Don audience with an old hit single, the lovely the crowd for ten minutes.
Quixote" which contains some of his most "Beautiful," followed soon after by one ofpenetrating lyricism ("See the soldier with 
his gun who must be dead to be admired"). his more recent songs, the hymn-like "Too After the show, Lightfoot said of per­This song was preceded by a beautiful new Late for Praying." forming, "I enjoy it. This is the best part of song, "All You Lovely Ladies," from an Perhaps personal history was the subject the whole job to step out on a stage in front upcoming album. of a good, receptive audience, such as we
of "Divorce Country Style" (Lightfoot's had here, and do the best job you can." ·wife was the recipient of the largest divorce 

It was during "On Susan's Floor" that the settlement in Canada's history). Never­technical problems first developed that theless, the song was introduced to the And the best was quite good last Friday were to plague him all night. He finally audience by a much less printable title. night. My notes for the second half of the 
stopped in the middle of "The Watchman's concert resembled the diary of a Hindu Gone" to try and work out the problems with My favorite performance of the night was The mood was uplifted musically with his jivanmuki as they read simply "great, the soundman which Lightfoot said con­"For Loving Me," the one Peter, Paul, and great, great."
of the Lightfoot classic "The Last· Time I 

sisted of a lack of "intermixed" sound Mary once had a hit with. He spoke of the
Saw Her." Certainly one of the best songs song's lyrics by shouting out, "This isn't a When asked where he was to perform

between his guitar and that of Terry Lightfoot has ever written, it was matched 
Clements, something he had stressed male chauvinist song . . . it's just preten­again, Lightfoot smiled and said, "I don't
here with a beautiful vocal and in­

throughout rehearsal. tious as hell!" and proved that somewhat by know, somewhere," which considering the
strumentation. While he performed the song 

following it immediately with the quite state of popular music lately, is exactly as itthe auditorium was in dead silence but for 
He later apologized for the delays, saying, the music. different "Did She Mention My Name?" should be. 
professionals --classical and modern 
a preview by mary ellen mcandrews 
This coming Monday, October 21st, the year the company makes a tour of Ohio, Lending a classical bent to the ballet troupe, Dance and Drama Series of the Cultural rndiana and "Kentucky with the Cincinnati it is she who will be staging and coaching Arts Commission will sponsor a per­Symphony Orchestra. Anton Dolin's recreation of the Victorian formanee by the Cincinnati Ballet Com­The secret to the viability of such a dance "Pas de Quartre" when it is performed in pany. Beginning at 8:00 p.m., the ballet company, situated west of New York City O'Laughlin. troupe will grace O'Laughlin stage with a seems to be the arrangement of establishing Director David McClain has begun to rendition of dances, including one major residencies at different universities. Using build a series of modern ballets developed classical and one major modern ballet. The the classroom and theater facilities that a by the late Lester Horton, a well known company will dance "Pas de Quartre" first university can offer, the group can set itself West Coast dance figure . Monday night the performed in !845 at Her Majesty's Theater up for a few days, offering workshops as company will be dancing "Frevo," a in London and long recognized as a classic well as formal performances. The Cin­Brazilian carnival street dance which is of Romantic ballet. The modern dance, cinnati Ballet Company had hoped to based on Horton's "Tropic Trio." "Concerto" is an abstract symphonic ballet establish a three day residency here but The Cincinnati Ballet Company's based on the architectural design of the other considerations permitted only a one diversity and flexibility was well noted in its Corbett Auditorium in Cincinnati, the night performance. It is clear that the widely acclaimed June 1974 production of theater where it was first performed. company is thriving. Each year its periorl of Michel Foline's "Firebird." An 
A moderately sized troupe of twenty-four employment increases and this )Car elaborately pantomimed fairy tale, the dancers, the Cincinnati Ballet Company has Director, David McClain intends to main­ballet was performed in Cincinnati and established itself firmly in the dance world. tain a fifty-two week rehearsal and per­broadcast over CBS television. James Affiliated with the Cincinnati Conservatory formance schedule. Wierzbicki, music critic for the Cincinnati of Music, it has shown that a college based Trained in both ballet and modern dance, Post wrote: eompany can achieve professional status. techniques, the dancers perform a diver­"The thing that struck me most while Now in its 12th season, the Cincinnati Ballet sified repetoire of thirty ballets and modern viewing the Cincinnati Ballet Company Company is an integral part of the cultural dance works. Dame Alcia Markova <CR(') in its Saturday night performance of life of its home city. Past national tours D.B.E., a former renowned ballerina, is a Foline's "The f irebird" was not too much have marked performances in such places member of the faculty at the University of the overall finesse of the production--I had as Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Each Cincinnati College Conservatory of Music. already been bowled over by that the night 
b('for('--but the bench strength of the troupe 
and the flexibility of the dancers." 
David McClain's latest effort is a All .. 
LUII.i>IU'Cl 

multimedia ballet, "Et Cetera." Duly Company's performance next week 
impressed, the critics have suggested that promises to be impressive. Heed the words 
the Joffrey of the New York City Ballet of Walter Terry of the Saturday Review and 
would probably like to steal it. for one evening allow yourself to be caught 
Much credit for the company's success up in the world of dance. You will not be 
must go to David McClain, under whom the ' disappointed. Let the Cincinnati Ballet 
group achieved professional status. A Company tell you
teacher-choreographer at the University of " ... that American dance energies are to 
Cincinnati, he is also head of the Dance b(' found not only in the great theaters and -· 
Division of the College Conservatory of opera houses of the world but also on 
Music. Prior to coming to Cincinnati, campuses, at educational institutions 
McClain held positions with the Robert willing to nourish both art and artist and to 
Joffrey Ballet Company and the American permit the dance creator to adventure, as do 
Ballet Center in New York City. He was also astronauts into that endlessly marvelous 
a member of the faculty of the School of the · realm of space that is the dancer's 
Pennsylvania Ballet in Philadelphia. He i a horizonless world." 
past chairman of the National Conference Tickets for the October 21st performance 
on Ballet in Higher Education and a former can be purchased in the Student Union. 
member of the board of directors for the Admission is $3.50 for adults and $2.50 for 
American Asociation of Dance Companies. students. 

the observer Monday, October 14, 1974 
Slated for this week 



Octoberfest activities set 
by Sue McGuire 
Staff Heporter 

The SMC social commission is sponsoring Oktoberfest '74 on October 16th and 17th on SMC campus. The idea originated last ~ear in the spring when current members of SMC social com­mission thought that a traditional t>vent similar to An Toste) but in tht• fall would be a welcome ad­dition to campus activities. Jenny Lt>e. manager of public relations, described it as "a social activity that does not involve a lot of money but does involve a lot of fun." 
The ft>stivities start out on Tuesday, the 15th, with an in­IPrelass softball game and an ND soccer t•xhibition. On Wednesday, Saga will present a German dinner 
Rusty Rhodes to appear tonight 
Rusty Rhodes who drew 4000 students to his lectures last year on the JFK assasination will be at the movie Executive Action to shown in Washington Hall tonight at 8 and 10 p.m. He will also lecture Tuesday and Wednesday. 
Erratum 

In the Thursday, Oct. 10, issue of the ObsPrver, the $600 faculty salary supplement was misstated as amounting to an 11.5 million dollar expenditure. The increase only amounts to approximately .5 million dollars. 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:::~:~:~:::~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~::::::::::::: 
:l'Jiony Present razy Record 
SHOWERING: The most prolonged continuous shower on record is one of 174 hours by David Hoffman of Gary, at Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana, January 21-27, 1972. 
Source: Guiness' Book of World Records 

B. b R1)emer, Class of '73 





61.~ 
~ 

pnmec 
Life insurance tailored to fit the unique needs of students and young professionals. 
For further information call: 
2 3 3-3 1 0 4 
IT'S GOOD TO HAVE 

M0NY 
IN YOUR FUTURF. 
MUTUAL OF NEW YORK 
The Mutual Life Insurance Company Of New York 

and a polka band in the dining haiL A bonfire in true German tradition is scheduled for 6:00 p.m. behind the tennis courts of McCandless HaiL A dance will begin at 8:30 in the upstairs dining hall with music by Talisman and a minimum cover charge of 25 cents. Soft drinks and bratwurst will be sold by the SMC­ND Chorus. At 8:30 p.m. a beer garden will open in the coffee shop and a $1.50 cover charge includes all the beer you can drink. Proof of age and a school LD. are required. 
Thursday's schedule of events includes an 'Arts and Crafts Show' in LeMans Hall from 9:00 til 5:00 p.m., and hall sponsored games such as a yodelling contest, a potato sack race, and apple dunking which will begin at 2:30 in the field outside the dining halL Culminating the fest is the John Sebastian Concert in Stepan. Center jointly sponsored by the SMC and ND social commissions. 
Tickets are $3.00 and are being sold in the dining halls and the Student Union Ticket Office 
The whole success of Oktoberfest 
'74 depends on student support and all students and faculty members of both campuses are invited to come and join in the fun, Jeanny Lee concluded. 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Erratum 

The letter by the Executive 
Committee of the Faculty Senate 
on faculty salaries in Friday's 
Observer contained an 

error. In the third 
paragraph of the text the letter 
should read, "To insure the future 
of Notre Dame, he (Fr. Hesburgh) 
implied both goals must be ac­
complished no matter what the 
cost at present to Notre Dame's 
faculty." 

1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

GODSPELL 
SAT. OCT. 19, 7:00 & 9:30P.M. 
I O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM S.M.C. L 



You can do it, too. So far over 550,000 other people have done it. People who have different jobs, different lOs, different interests, different educations have completed the course. Our graduates arc people from all walks of life. These people have all taken a course developed by Evelyn Wood, a prominent educator. Practically all of them at least tripled their reading speed with equBI or better comprehension. Most have increased it even more. Think for a moment what that means. All of them-even the slowest-now read an average novel in less than two hours. They read an entire issue of Time or Newsweek in 35 minutes. They don't skip or skim. They read every word. They use no machines. Instead, they let the material they're reading determine how fast they read. And mark this well: they actually understand more, remember more, and enjoy more than when they read slowly, That's right! They understand more. They remember more. They enjoy more. You can do the same 
WEEKEND JOB Indiana's Largest Lake Developer Needs Several Ambitious Seniors Or Grad Students To Work Weekends Thru October Near Lake Wawa'see. 
Gas Paid. Free Housing. Minimum $50 CALL 
C. STONE (219) 636-7189 
of South Bend 
52980 U.S.31 North 272-5220 
presents 
wng~t aro3. overland Stage ao. 
everything from down-home bluegrass to contemporary rock 
BEGINNING OCTOBERS-3 SHOWS 
NIGHTLY FROM 9:00-2:00 
SUNDAY FROM 8:30-12:00 



It Sounds Incredible 
BUT EVELYN WOOD GRADUATES CAN READ 
THE EXORCIST IN 58 MINUTES 
At That Speed, The 403 Pages Come Across With More Impact Than The Movie. 
thing-the place to learn more about it is at a free speed reading lesson. 
This is the same course President Kennedy had his Joint Chiefs of Staff take. The staff of President Nixon completed this course in June 1970. The same one Senators and Congressmen have taken. 
Come to a Mini-Lesson and find out. It is free to you and you will leave with a better understanding of why it works. One thing that might bother you about your reading speed is that someone might find out how slow it is. The instructors at the Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Free Speed Reading lesson will let you keep your secret. It's true we practice the first step to improved reading at a Mini-Lesson and we will increase your reading speed on the spot, but the results will remain your secret. Plan to attend a free Mini-Lesson and learn that it is possible to read 3-4·5 times faster, with comparable comprehension. 
-------SCHEDULE OF FREE MINI-LESSONS-----.___, 
You'll increase your reading speed 50 to 100% on the spot! 
FREE READING D~CS LESS()t\5 TODAY & T~OJV at 4:00 pm and 8:00 pm 
at THE CENTER Frn CGJTINUING EDUCATION on The Notre Darre Campus 
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS ······-····························-····························-··..-··-···········-···--·-·········--·-·········-··-············-··-···--·······--···-·-,----····-·········-····--·······­

·~~·-~-·-· ----· -­
ND social atmosphere discussed 
by Mary Reher Staff Reporter 

Last weekend the rectors of the female dorms expressed their views about the hostility between Notre Dame men and women. Many of the rectors attribute this antagimism to a lack of the right kind of social activities. 
"The Letters to the Editor in the Observer last week expressing sexism sound as though they come from people who have been per­sonally hurt," explained Sr. Jean Lenz, rector of Farley. "Instead of taking the time to work out their problems, they just walk away and blow off steam by writing in the paper. It would be ideal if they 
ld b t
cou e more pa Ien an ISCUSS 
. t d d' 

their frustrations," she sa_id. 
Lenz expressed her belief that eouples are too possessive of each other too soon in their relationship 
because they are afraid that no one else will go out with them. 
"Also. regular social functions such as parties put too much stress on a person. You have to sit and 
earry on a lengthy conversation with someone all night," she continued. "It's better for guys and girls to do active things together where they don't just sit around and talk. For example, 
c~edvolley~allteamsofGraceand f ~~ley residents were r~cently
Initiated. It has been workmg out 
Sl\C board to 
revise judicial 
case procedmes 
by Bill Flanagan Staff Reporter 
The St. Mary's Student Relations Board is undertaking a plan that will revise the procedure in which cases before the Board are to be heard. 
Mamie Antho ine . instrumental in the planning of the revision, said the Board is "re-writing the entire judicial procedure." 
Final details of the changes will not be available for some time yet, according to Anthwine who feels that it would be inappropriate to discuss any of the specifics until they have been approved. 
Anthwine did say that in the future cases will be handled on a hall level. "Trere will probably be some type of representative hall board which, in any case, would give the individual a fairer chance to present a case," she said. 
Anthwine added that the purpose 
of the revision is not to provide "a 
poHcing mechanism," but instead 
to make an effort to help the in­
dividual. 

EXECUTIVE ACTION 
-TONIGHT· 
WASHINGTON HALL 8:00P.M. 10:00 P.M. ADMISSION $1.00 
Rusty Rhodes Will Be There To Answer Questions After the Novie 
well because the women and men are playing together and not competing against each other," she said. 
Sr. Barbar-a Counts, rector of Lyons, noted that women prove to be competitors in classes and the men resent this. "American men, in general, think they have a role of dominance they must follow and some women aren't aware of these feelings," she stated. 
"The problem stems from the fact that it's a virile atmosphere at Notre Dame into which women have come," said Sr. Jane Pitz, assistant rector of Walsh. She said there was antagonism between men and women last year, too, 
' 

GAN srB . 
'• 'aftCHI 1-:1-;r • 
: • : • : • • : • : • : 

• 1316 SOlJrH MICHIGAN STREET • 
: : 
: CALL 282-120~ fnR INfQDAAAIJnN:
•••••••••••••••••••1"ee:t'•••••••••IY~Ye1 l'fl~.. 
TRAINED LEARN TEACHE 
ALL 

FOR 
THE

ARTHUR UR RAY NEW 
iN 
'TOUCH CHICAGO 
DANCES'

12 YEARS 
Fran says TI-E LESSON IS: CHA··CHA AT 
NOTRE DNJt E LAFORTUNE BALLROOM MON>AY··OCT 14-74 7:00··SHARP OVER 100 STUDENTS NOW TAKING LESSONS EACH MONDAY 
WALK IN··ALONE ..GROUP .. DATE CHANGE PARTNERS ALL EVE EAO-I $2 LESSON 
1Y.U. . ----. . :
ADULT I'J"U"':' K IIWD"':'C! • 
~~~~ :
X f1L'IUIIIt! • 
l'Y,Ii;;;J : • 
2 
X B()~ • 
~.L~ : 
X LIVE fLCXJl SHQW :• 
• : when girls from other colleges were bussed in for Mardi Gras. This year it was triggered by the panty raids, she claims. 
Badin Rector Helen Gallagher said, ·"Male-female relationships involve risks of rejection and being made a fool of. Guys are scared of being turned down and girls are compared to St. Mary's girls and stereotyped." 
Gallagher stated that young people need to feel freer and more relaxed together. The problem is 
the  decrease  of  large  parties,  
where  people  were  used  to  in­ 
teracting.  

The campus is much quieter as a result, she remarked. "It makes me feel uncomfortable to think that students feel school is a place to call 'home' for nine months out of the year." 

The rector of Breen-Philips, Jean Thomas, observed that there are lonely men and women who have never dated, would like to meet someone, but don't know how. She feels they would fit into small groups better than large one-

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Desperately need ride to L.l. or 
N.J. for Oct. break. Will share expenses. Call Debbie, 5198. 
Gain career experience, em. players demand. We need degrees in business, law, architecture, economics, and engineering. See Peace Corps-VISTA in the Library Oct. 14·17. 
Wanted: people that can farm, speak Spanish or French, teach English or Math, have degrees in all Liberal Arts areas, education, and science. See Peace Corps. VISTA in the library Oct. 14-17. 
Need .ride to St. Louis or Kansas City, Oct. break. Call Cyndi, 5776 or 5428. 
Desperately need ride to Davenport Iowa area or west on I· 80 weekend of Oct. 18. Will share$ and driving. Call John, 1774. 
Need 4 tix USC game. Call 1132. 
Needed desperately: 2 GA tickets to Miami. Call Tom, 8398. 
Wanted: veteran-student for work. study position under V .A. program. $250.00 for 100 hours. Apply through N D Personnel Office or call 237.4415. _ 
Need ride to Oklahoma Oct. break. Call Cyndi, 5776 or 5428. 
Wanted: 2 GA tickets for Army. Call Mike, 232-2773. 
Need ride to Minneapolis.$!. Paul or Madison for Oct. 25 break. Call John at 1184. 
NE'ed 2 GA tickets tor Pitt. Tom, 288-2613. 
Need 4.6 tix for any home game except Army. Wlll trade with 4 Army tix. Call Becky, 8154. 
Ride wanted to CALIFORNIA during Oct. break. Call Tom, 3191. 
WANTED: RIDE TO NYC, AROUND OCT. 10. CALL MICHELE, S74S. 
Need 2 GA tix for Pitt. Call Larry, 288-7375. 
Need 4 GA tix for Pitt. Call Beth, 5144.• 
FOR SALE  
For sale:  4 Army  tix,  djacent.  
Bill, 1723.  

Tl 2550 calculator. Ca Fred, 288· 5646, Keep calling. 
Sylvania TV, B&W, 23" for $40. In good condition. Call 5166 or 287· 6804. 
NOTICES 

Free · to hauler -upright piano. Call 287-8697. 
24 hr. TV repair service. 7 days a week. Sundays and holidays. Color TV's $60 and up. Stereo units $50 and up. Call Western Electronics, 282-1955. 
Free · one cute male dashchund. Great pet! Call Chris, 232-6045 or Mary, 4167. 
shot parties. Thus, they need a meeting place to interrelate without force on a regular basis. 
Pitz, Thomas, and Counts . all mentioned the Nazz and Darby's Place as good places for young people to meet informally. "We need more places with neutral atmospheres like the coffeehouse for girls and guys to feel com­fortable together," stated Pitz. 
HOCKEY GAME: THE CAMPUS VIEW CRUNCHIES VS. THE ALUMNI HALL DOGS. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15 AT 10:00 AT THE A.C.C. FANS INVITED. IT'S FREE! 
Will do typing, term papers, etc. Call 233-4484. 

HASH BROWN BLUES BAND . NOW AVAILABLE FOR DAN­CES, PARTIES, AND PRE-GAME PERFORMANCES. CALL 272·9895 AFTER 7:00 FOR IN­FORMATION. 
Legal problem, but no money? ND Legal Aid can help. Call 283-7795, M·F, 1-4 pm. 
TICKETS FOR THE OCTOBER 20 AEROSMITH & MAHOGANY RUSH CONCERT AT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
PERSONALS 

Plato: Your love is too transcendent. Please explain. 
Love, Cree 
Hey Pope: Kiss off. The Illegitimate Son 
FSB TURKEY!?!? A.M.V. 

A man named Kevin was this, A gigolo in all his bliss, He borrowed money from a misS To get a rather expensive kiss. 
SMERB · I'll sit on your feet· anytime. Happy 2nd. NURT 
Pietro, What the hell is Ether Day? Oc­lober 16? Raw Sex? Decadence? Nirvana? A gas? 
To JCCAM of 2nd floor Farley: Your "bedwork" is excellent even if your technique is a little strange. Four at once . WOW!! 
Fr. H.A.H.S. 
FOR RENT 

For rent: 1single, $55 mo. includes rent, utilities. 1 block from grocery, laundry, bakery. Call 232­2773. 
For rent: modern executive 2­bedroom cottage located on 30 wooded acres of St. Joseph River frontage and Orchard Hills Golf Course. Winterized cottage also features lar~e fireplace, wall-to­wall carpeting, fully equipped kitchen, and riding horses. Perfect for out-of-towners on Notre Dame football weekends with only a 20­minute ride to the stadium. $150 per week. Call 616-695-6043. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: Whittenauer gold ladies' wristwatch. Lost between Morris 
Inn & Dillon. Call 7181. 

Lost: season football ticket in section 29 at Rice game. If found, call Sue, 7976. 
Money found. Give amount and condition. 8843. 
--------------------------------------------------------------~----------~--------------------------~~ the ol>~~!_ver. Monday, October 14, 1974 


Flags fly, but Owls grounded 10-3 
by Gn•g Corgan three minutes left to play, Wayne Sports Editor 
Bullock crashed over from the two. RPeve kicked the point and the 
Without even playing, Satur­game ended with the Irish on top day's t'f'ff'rees. in Notre Dame's 10-10-7. :l win over Rice, compiled some "All in all, I am fearful that this impressive statistics. In fact, they game did not reflect any im­P\'en outgained the Owls. provement on the part of the of­
For the afternoon, referee Tom fense," said Parseghian. "On the l'aspalas and his crew garnered other hand it does show that this l!iO vards in no carries and without Rice team cannot be disregarded. t•on~plPting a single pass tall flags Keep in mind that they had LSU fPII lo the ground incomplete>. On beaten a couple of weeks ago and it top of that. they accomplished this took a late field goal by LSU to tie. fpat with only six players ... er, "I think Rice did a great job officials. defensively and, combined with too 
TIH'ir big play. of course, was a many mistakes on our part, it :l;l ~wrd multiple penalty early in made for an extremely close I h • M·cond quartt>r. football game." 
I'IH' Irish had driven to the Rice The game was not as close ~:l '<1rd linP. where on first down statistically. The Irish offense tiw·~· n•cpi\·l·d a five-yarder for gathered 370 total yeards while illq~al procl'dure. This was quickly Hice could manage a mere 149. The follow<'d by two unsportsmanlike Irish defense, led by co-captain l'ondut'l pl'nalties on Ara Par­Greg Collins, did not allow Rice to sPghian. placing the ball back on pPnetrate into Notre Dame till' :-.JotrP Dame -12. tf'rritory once after the Owls 
"I ita VP bt><•n coaching for 25 kicked their first period field goal. \'t·.n·s and I have nPver seen a call The Irish offense also just iikt• that," said a somewhat couldn't seem to get going. lw\\ iidl'rPd Parseghian. "We ran "We should have been jumping an niT-tackle play for first down out on top and putting them away," ~·arcl.lgl' and there was no motion said offensive tackle Steve on tl (' play. The official indicated Sylvester, "and we just didn't do our ,Jffl•nsive linemPn were not that." lining up properly on the ball. He total offense, and only 45 in the second half in the 10-3 NO victory. Mistakes, penalties, and a tough 
sairllhPir helmets were not on a of the end zone. 21 and Reeve's 3S yard field goal fourth quarter on a 20-play, SO-yard Rice football team made it a dif­plane (•ven with the center's The Owls scored their only points attempt fell short. drive. The key plays were a seven­ficult assignment. mtmPrals. of the ball game on their second ··we should have had the ball in yard screen pass to Goodman on 
"I wPnt down to the 30-yard line possession. A 59-yard drive stalled the end zone then," he said. "We're third down from the ND 26, and to g<'t instructions for my ball at the Irish 19 and Alan Pringle, a making too many mistakes. I more importantly, a 17-yard Phelps slates BB dub," he continued. "I just kept senior from Caracas, Venezuela, never saw so many flags drop." Clements-toGoodman pass on third asking, 'Where do you want them?' boomed a 36-yard field goal with ''We had a lot of bad breaks," and twelve from the Rice 32. I was merely soliciting in­5 ·22 left to play in the quarter. echoed guard Gerry DiNardo. "We "That was more like a broken tryouts for Tuesday formation so it would not be called The Irish didn't tie things up w<'re forced into too many third play," explained Goodman. "I was 
Tryouts for the 1974-75 varsity
again. until their sixth possession of the and long situations." running an out and they chased basketball team will be held"The official turned to me and ball game. Starting from his own "The penalties are what hurt us Tommy so I curled back. I knew I Tuesday October 15.
said, 'You are beyond the 35-yard 46. Clements hit Demmerle for 13 mostly," added DiNardo's had enough for the first down. I 
line' and threw the flag penalizing yards, AI Samuel for 11, and Jim counterpart at left guard AI just wanted to get in Tommy's line All interested persons should us J5yards. The second flag came Wl'iler for four down to the Rice 30. Wujciak, "But they're no small of vision." report to the ACC basketball arena as a result of some significant A fifteen-yard holding penalty put team. They're going to win some The pass play put the ball at the before 4:00. Players should bring profanity on my part to an unfair, the ball back at the Rice 41, but ball games." Hice 16, and six plays later, with thi!ir cwn equipment. 
unjust call. I think the first penalty < lements came back to Ron ·•we played well, we played hard was uncalled for. because I was Coodman for 1S yards and Samuel and wanted to win," said Rice Pete M::H'UQl:t:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::•:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. m<•rely trying to get information for seven, putting the Irish on the H(•ad Coach AI Conover. "We've and I did not use any profanity. If Owls' 16 yard line. just gc•l to get better offensively." they pl'nalized £'very coach for C'lemPnts thl'n lost 12 back to the Asked to compare the 1974 team walking past the 35-yard line, there ~~ll. and two incompleted passes with Notre Dame's 1973 squad would be a new penalty record iater, Dave Reeve kicked a 45-yard Conover declined. Extra Points set." lield goal to knot the game 3-3 at "Our kids played their hearts 
Till' long gainer by the officials halftime. out, and we'll be a good football camP at an inopportune time for "We're not playing the kind of team before it is over. That's all I the Irish. 
Notre Dame was in the midst of a 

~~7~~~:~!:~~~~~~~!~;.~eli~~~~~~ w~n~et{~i~~ys!~~ ;~i~ti~ more in the :;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::The good and the bad 
wPll-l'X<'cuted drive originating at too many mistakes to be a good second half, but not much. 
its own :l3. Behind 3-0 at the time, a football team." The third quarter turned out to be Notre Dame won. What more can you say? 27-yard Tom Clements-to-Pete Parseghian cited the ineligible be a punting duel between the Owls However uncharacteristically, unimpressively, or uninterestingly, the Dl'mnwrle pass play put the ball at receiver downfield penalty early in Mike Landrum and Brantley, both Irish defeated Rice 10-3 in what was supposed to be another soft touch 
the Hice 23. The three penalties the first quarter as the most of whom were spectacular. Lan­Saturday afternoon. moved it back to the ND 42, and on erucial. The Irish had driven 74 drum had one kick of 64 yards. third and twenty-four from the 
.yards to the Rice six, but the The Irish finally scored their The Notre Dame offense, hampered extensively by penalties, generally H ice :n Tony Brantley punted out 
penalty moved the ball back to the long awaited touchdown in the sputtered. For the first 57 minutes of the game, Clements and Co. could not find their way into the Owls' endzone. With a fired-up Rice defense to 
"~ntend with, the Irish attack was stifled somehow or another for most of the day, converting on only 4-16 third down situations prior to the winning drive. 
The Notre Dame defense played outstanding football the whole game. Led by Greg Collins, Drew Mahalic, and a tenacious defensive line, the Irish limited the Owls to 149 total yards and only 45 yards the second half. The defensive secondary, burned early by short passes, adjusted itself to shut off Rice quarterback Claude Reed in the final period.· 
Overall there were many standout Irish performances. Tom Clements (15-26 for' 179 yards) turned in his usual fine game and in the ~ourth quarter was simply devastating. The senior quarterback, converti~g ~n five third down plays, mastered the winning SO-yard touchdown dnve m 20 plays while using up 9:45 on the game clock. 
Complementing Clements was split end Pete Demmerle who caught six passes for S6 yards. Demmerle, who faced double coverage much of the game, continued to display his All-American potential against the scrappy Owls. Halfback AI Samuel with 60 yards in ten attempts had his best showing this season. 
Rice also had its share of stars. Their elusive quarterback Reed was consistently on target and nearly tied the score on a desperation bomb in the closing minutes. On the defensive side, Owl noseguard Cornelius Walker and linebacker Rod Norton stymied Notre Dame's outside run­ning plays most of the afternoon. 
Despite the individual efforts, the game was somewhat less than in­spiring with 20 penalties, 16 punts, and only 13 points between the two teams. The crowd responded to the lackluster football by passing up girls and. with a new innovation, batting around giant football ballons. 


The offt!nse got into the act on more than one occasion. Here Tom Clements, who was 15 of 26 for 173 
For many, the games in the stands seemed a lot more intersting than
finds his favorite target Pete Demmerle on a curl pattern. With the victory, the Irish upped their 
the game on the field.

record to 4-1 while the Rice Owls dropped to 0-3-1. 







