


OD The Inside 
Campus Briefs 
... pg 6 
Huddle price survey ••.pg 3 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 

Kissinger warns: World on brink of depression' 
Vol. IX No. 19 
Macheca, SLC clarif 
alchohol directives 
by Pat Hanifin Staff Reporter 
Stressing non-disciplinary "confrontation" in ordinary cases the Student Life Council has agreed on a clarification of Dean of Students John Macheca 's recent alcohol directive. The clarification, agreed to unanimously at yesterday's Council meeting, provides for the possibility of heavy discipline in only the most serious cases. 
"I think it serves our purposes," Pat McLaughlin, student 
body president said during the meeting. Macheca agreed that it suited the. administration and that he only wanted to make sure that everyone understood the situation. 
The statement, which is a clarification of the previous rule, not a rule itself, reads: 
1) If a student drinks or openly possesses alchohol in public places on the campus he-she should expect to be confronted by other members of the University community. Depending upon the response of the students and the circumstances involved, such situations will not normally result in official disciplinary action. 
2) There may be situations involving the violation of the alcohol rules that will be of a more serious nature. Some of these will occur within the residence halls, and hopefully most will bee handled within the hall with the knowledge of the Dean of Students. 
3) Social events involving alchohol will be limited to members of the community who are 21 years old and over. The alcohol guidelines approved by the SLC last year remain in effect for any gatherings where alcohol will be 
present . Under those guide lines, no advertising of events or parties involving alcohol is permitted on campus. 
Fr. David Shlaver explained that the first paragraph is aimed at open brownbagging. "We won't confiscate the liquor if we see someone walking across the quad with it but we will talk to him. If a person is drinking in public he would also be told to stop and normally nothing else would be necessary." 
McLaughlin pointed to the phrase "drinks or openly possesses alcohol in public places," and "will not normally result in official disciplinary actions" as the most important ones. "As long as the students understand these there should be no problems," he said. 
(continued on page 7) 

By BRUCE W. MUNN 
UNITED NATIONS CUPI) Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger warned Monday the world is on the brink of economic collapse and called on oil-producing nations to roll back prices. 
"The world is poised on the brink of a return to the unrestrained economic national­ism which accompanied the collapse of economic order in the '30s," Kissinger told the representatives of 138 nations at the United Nations General Assembly. 
"The early warning signs of a major economic crisis are evident. Rates of inflation unprecedented in the last quarter century are sweeping developing and developed na­tions alike. The world's finan­
·cia I institutions are staggering under the. most massive and rapid movement of reserves in history. "And profound questions have arisen about meeting man's most fundamental needs for energy and food." Kissinger gave his chilling economic doomsday forecasts in a 40-minute speech that was delivered in an almost monoto­nous, matter-of-fact tone. He was applauded only once, for 15 seconds when he finished. As he walked back to his seat, many delegates thrust out their hands to congratulate him. The Soviet delegation politely clapped. The Chinese sat stonily in their seats. At about the same time Kissinger spoke, President Ford was in Detroit warning that the upward spiral of oil 
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy appeared on the NO campus on October 6, 1972 to campaign for h'le McGovern presidential bid. His fazther Joseph was a trustee of the University and his brothers John and Robert both served in N D Advisory Councils. 
Kennedy decides not to seek nomination in '76 
by Richard Gaines BOSTON <UPI)--8en. Edward M. Kennedy, burdened with family problems and shadowed by a tragic automobile accident, said Monday he had made a "firm, final and unconditional" decision against running for president or vice president in 1976. In refusing to follow his assassinated brothers into a Presidential campaign, the 42-year-old Kennedy, last surviving son of a star-crossed family, said "My primary responsibilities are at home." It had long been believed that Kennedy could have had the 1976 nomination for the asking. His son Ted Jr., who will be 13 Thursday, had his right leg amputated last November in an effort to halt bone cancer, and his wife Joan, who was with the senator at Monday's Parker House Hotel news conference, has been hospitalized three times recently with emotional fatigue. In addition to his immediate family, Kennedy is a father-figure to the two children of the late President John F. Kennedy, slain in Dallas in 1963, and the 11 children of the late Sen. Robert 
F. Kennedy, who was gunned down while run­ning for President in 1968. Ted and Joan have three children of their own. 
"From the campaigns of my brothers before me, I know that seeking the nation's highest office demands a candidate's undivided at­tention and his deepest personal commitment," said Kennedy. "I simply cannot do that to my 
prices could provoke worldwide depression and suggested they 
could even lead to war. 
Kissinger said the United States was working closely with several oil-producing nations to diversify their economies. But, he said, a long-range solution required understanding between consumers and producers. 
"The world cannot sustain 
even the present level of prices, 
much less continuing in­
creases," he said. "The prices 
of other commoditiees will 
inevitably rise in a never­
ending inflationary spiral. No­
body will benefit. The oil 
producers will be forced to 
spend more for their own 
imports. 
"Unlike food prices, the high cost of oil is not the result of economic factors, of an actual shortage of capacity or of the free play of supply and demand, Rather it is caused by deliberate decisions to restrict production and maintain and artificial price level. 
"What bas gone up by political decision can be re­duced by political decision." 
Kissinger repeated Ford's promise to the U.N. last week that the United States would substantially increase its food aid to needy countries this year despite Washington's efforts to reduce its budget. 
He said the United States · would propose at the world food conference in Rome in Novem­ber the development of unused land and water, substantially boosted world fertilizer produc­tion, mobilization of scientific and technical resources to meet demands of the year 2000, rebuilding of wo1 · i food re-wife and children and the other members of my family." 

Kennedy who resisted efforts todraft him onto the 1968 and 1972 Democratic Presidential tickets said he expected to run for re-election to the Senate in 1976 rather than for the White House. He insisted he would not accept a draft for the presidency. 
Kennedy was front-runner for the 1976 Presidential nomination despite a fatal automobile accident five years ago that tar­nished his image. His political aspirations suffered a severe setback in July, 1969, when a car he was driving plunged off a narrow bridge on Cappaquiddick Island, Martha's Vineyard, taking the life of a young woman passenger, Mary Jo Kopechne. 
Though he did not mention the incident in his prepared statement at his news conference, Kennedy acknowledged in answer to question that Chappaquiddick "would have been a factor" in a Presidential campaign. 
"The decision I made this morning would have been made irrespective of the tragedy," he said. Kennedy sought to shut the door once and for 
all on his candidacy for president in 1976. 

"There is absolutely no circumstance or event that will alter the decision. I will not accept the nomination. I will not accept a draft. I will oppose any effort to place my name in nomination in any state, or at a national con­vention, and I will oppose any effort to promote my candidacy in other ways. 
serves to free the planet from the vagaries of weather and hefty food aid. 
Kissinger also pledged that the United States would: 
-Work closely with Israel and the Arabs for Middle East peace and cooperate with "all interested countries" within the framework of the Geneva peace talks. 
-Play a more active role in attempting to settle the Cyprus crisis. 
-Make specific proposals for safeguards against the diver­sion of fissionable plutonium from peaceful uses to the manufacture of nuclear wea­pons. 
-Pursue seriously the Strate­gic Arms Limitation talks with the Soviet Union aimed at "controling and reducing the levels of nuclear arms." 

----~------------~­
2 
tile ol»aerver Tuesday, September 24, 1974 
warld 
briefs 
\ 
WASHINGTON <UPI)-President Ford will name NATO am­bassador Donald Runsfeld to succeed departing White House chief of staff Alexander M. Haig, administration officials indicated Monday. Haig, according to officials, will be leaving the White House by Thursday or Friday and will take a vacation before assuming his new post as Supreme Allied Commander in Europe in early December. 
SAN PEDRO SULA, Honduras <UPI)-The United States and international agencies launched a massive relief campaign for Honduras Monday to aid an estimated 100,000 refugees of hurrican Fifi threatened with starvation and 'disease. 
PASADENA, Calif. <UPI>--New photographs of the planet Mercury show that the sun's closest neighbor was hit billions of years ago by a large celestial body that gouged an Boo-foot-long basin in the planet, scientists reported Monday. 
PEKING <UPI>--The People's Republic of China celebrates its 25th birthday on Oct. 1. Aging leaders of the "New China" feel that Chairman Mao Tse-tung has accomplished some of his goals during the uqarter century of Communist rule but that it may take many years before the Socialist "New Man" emerges. 
an campus taday 
3:30 pm --lecture, john h. powell, jr., chairman of equal op­portunity employment commission, law school lounge. 
8 & 10 pm · movie, "shadow of a doubt", alfred hitchcock film festival, eng. aud., $1., cac patrons free. 
9:30pm-meeting, mecha,lafortune basement, all members. 
Regents consider presidential candidates, appropriate funds 
by Mary Jan~a 
St. Mary's Edator 
Interviews with two college presidential candidates, Dr. Paul 
J. Reiss, vice president for academic affairs at Fordham University and Dr. r'rancis J. Mertz, executive vice president of St. Peter's College, New Jersey, highlighted St. Mary's Board of Regents meeting this weekend. 
Additional candidates will be recommended to the Regents by the Presidential Search Com­mittee within four to six weeks, according to student represen­tative to the Board Carol Collins. 
The final decision will be made by the Corporate Board of the college based on the recom­mendations of the Board of Regents. The Corporate Board is headed by Sr. Kathleen Anne Nelligan, superior general of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. No date has been set for the an­nouncement of a new president. 
'' The Regents appropriated ap­pr?ximately $75,000 for personnel, a fire safety !:.ytem and equipment maintenance of the new computer center. An additional $57,000 was 
,, appropriated to carpet the dining hall and dormitories. 
The Board also passed a two per cent cost of living increase in faculty salaries. According to Acting President Dr. William Hickey, "this will not be added to the base salary of a faculty member, but is to be considered a supplement to• faculty income during this period of excessive inflation." 
Two annual $1000 scholarships, in honor of alumna Dympha Balach were establiJ.hed. The Dympna Balach SchOlarship and the Catherine and Paul Balach Scholarship will be awarded each Congregation of the ~isters or the 
year t · · d 
. o a f!l~SIC f!laJor ~n Holy Cross, was also discussed. busme~s adm1mstratton ma]or, The Regents will consider specific respectively. recommendations at a future 
Board members also formed a meetim! 
Capital Needs Committee to obtain ,----·-_..._____....._.. 
funds from individuals and The Observer is publiShed daily foundations for a new recreational during the college semester except facility, continued Hickey. Plans vacations by the students of the for the proposed facility wi"ll be Unive:sity of Notre Dame and St.
Mary s College. Subscriptionsready by the end of this month. may be purchased for sa per ~evi~ion of the college by-laws, semester ($14 per year> from The. 
which IS hoped to clarify the lines Observer Box Q, Notre Dame
Indiana 46.i56. Second clas~ 

of responsibility between the postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. college, Board of Regents, and the 46556. 

Nixon enters hospital lor leg ailment 
By JAMES J. DOYLE 
LONG BEACH, Calif. (UPI) -Former President Richard Nixon was admitted to Long Beach Memorial Hospital Mon­day for treatment of a painful ailment in his left leg. 
The President motored from his Can Clemente home a short distance down the coast, arriving at the hospital at 1:35 
p.m. PDT. It had been expected that he would use a helicopter and there was no explanation for the change in plans. 
He was taken immediately to a sixth-floor section of the hospital to undergo a series of tests and treatment for painful blood clots and inflamed veins in his· left Ieg-an ailment called thrombophlebitis. 
Waiting newsmen were not permitteo to photograph or speak to Nixon who was escorted by a group of Secret Service men. 
Nixon came in a four-car caravan and got out of his vehicle and walked into the hospital, showing no signs of illness. 
IUIIIIHIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUII 
Editor's Note: 
Nixon's physician, John C. Lungren is a graduate of Notre ' Dame and former director of the Alumni Association. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIHIIIIIUIIII-111111111111111 
-~ 
SPECIAL ATTENTION: 

ANYO'JE VVISHING TO APPLY FOR lHE SENICR UUB GENERAL MANAGER R BUSINESS 1\AANAGER POSITIONS 
SHOULD SUBMIT AN APPLICATJON OF INTENT. IT SHOOLD lf\.JCLUDE A STATEMENT OF PURPOSE, EXPERIENCE, 
GENERAL BACKGROUND, AND All 
OTHER INFORMATION ABO-UT YOURSELF THAT ~ULD PERTAIN T YOOR MANAGENtNT ABILITIES. 
YOO SHOULD AlSO GET AT LEAST 
THREE(3) RECQ\IMENDATIONS FROM VARIOUS PEOPLE OF THE NOTRE DAN\E COmtiJNITY. 
DRCF THIS APPLICATION OFF VVITH 
THE SEffiETARY IN THE STUDENT AFFAIRS OFFICE NO LATER THAN THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 26. 
WEEKEND JOB Indiana's Largest Lake Developer Needs Several Ambitious Seniors · Or Grad Students To Work Weekends 
Thru Octobor Near Lake Wawasee. 
Gas Paid. Free Housing. Minimum $50 
CALL C. STONE (219)636-7189 
rrection 

An error has been made on the Cinema '75 posters for the Alfred Hitchcock Film Festival. 
The correct schedule is as follcms: 
Sunday -"The 39 Steps" Monday -"Spellbound"

* 
Tuesday -'Foreign Correspondent"

* 
Wednesday -"Shadow of a Doubt"

* 
Thursday "Dial M for Murder" 


* incorrect on the poster 
•

Huddle prices lower 1n survey 
--~ ~--­
Tuesday, September 24, 1974 the observer 

by Norman E. Bower Staff Reporter 
Contrary to rumors, the in­creased prices on cookies and crackers at the Huddle are in keeping with local and national rate hikes. 
The prices on a number of Nabisco snack items were com­pared at the Huddle, A & P on Eddy St., and Kroger and Thrifti­Mart on S.R. 23. Although the Huddle was found to be the highest priced on four of the eight sur­veyed goods, there was no in­dication of price manipulation. 
According to Huddle Manager Thomas Grogan, the prices on 
these items has been increased three times in the last four weeks due to new pricing by Nabisco. Grogan added that no supplier price gurarantees are available for any long-term arrangement. 
"The Huddle makes a profit only to cover handling and bookkeeping," said Grogan, who formerly directed the food service at King's College at Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
Grogan sees no change in business for the Huddle because of higher prices . "Both constant supply and demand have been maintained since school began," he said. 
He noted that the Huddle SPrves students who want a snack for TV watching and that off-campus students use of a food co-op would not affect the turn-over of his products. 
He cited a number of advantages at the Huddle. Although selection has been reduced, variety is being maintained by dropping and ad­ding of products. This has caused a higher rate of turn-over. so freshness of products, formerly a problem, has been improved. 
Grogan added that the Huddle does not engage in ''on-the -shelf" price hiking as do most­commercial outlets. "Once an 


Community complains about litter, noise and obscenities near local bars 
Obscene language, excessive noise and littered lawns are the main objections to students frequenting local bars, Professor Arthur Quigley, president of the Northeast Neighborhood Council, said yesterday. 
He noted the problems are compounded by people carrying beer out of the taverns and stressed the illegality of such acts. 
Members of the Northeast 
Neighborhood Council approached 
owners of local taverns about the matter of carrying beer out, and received assurances of action. According to Quigley, the owners have taken only limited action and cited Nickie's and The Library as the worst offenders. 
Very little has been done to bring the police into the matter. The engineering professor said the neighborhood members aren't out to catch the students" He is hopeful that the students will act as community minded individuals. Quigley believes the university's 

Professor Arthur Quigley states that spite of the problems witn student off campus rowdiness, 'A large portion of the students are good community people. (Photo by Dave Daley) 
directive to ban alcohol has probably made the problems worse since more students are leaving campus to drink. Students not knowing what to do in their spare time contribute to the problems.
Despite the recent problems, Quigley was pleased that things had been "better in the last two weeks." 
Quigley said the problems are not new to the community this year and that Notre Dame students are not entirely to blame. 
The Northeast Neighborhood Council is also interested in the upkeep of the houses in which Notre Dame students live in. Quigley mentioned several houses that are becoming rundown and eye sores for the community. 
Yet the president of the council praised' a number of off-campus students in the area for taking excellent care of their homes. "A large portion of them (the students) are very good com­munity people." 
Citing programs such as 
Headstart and elementary school 
tutoring, he recognized the ex­
cellent civic minded work done by 
many Notre Dame students. 
item is on the shelf for sale, it will priced replacement waits to be be left for sale, while its higher stocked." 
Results of yesterday's survey: 
Ul1ANTIT\' PRODUCT HJ.!DDJ,E 
91h oz. 
16 oz. 
14% oz. 16 oz. 16 oz. 10 oz. 81/2 oz. 10 oz. 
Triscuit .73 
Fig Newton .83 Chips Ahoy $1.04 Honey Maid .84 Ginger Snaps .84 VeriThin Pretzels .69 Bisco Sugar Wafer~ .84 
Lorna Doone .77 

~ KROGER T-MAR'I 
.79  none  .69  
.69  .89  .79  
1.29  .99  .99  
.79  .79  .79  
.79  .79  .79  
.61  .57  .59  
.79  .75  .75  
.79  none  .75  


The rise in Huddle prices is comparable to that of other stores. 'The recent price increases were due to higher prices by the suppliers. (Photo bv Dave Daley) 
SWEENEv·s SHAMROCK SHIRTS ARE IN 

All SIZES w-IILE THEY LAST 

1421 S. Walnut Street (219) 233-9441 South Bend, Indiana 46627 
SENIOR HOCKEY AT THE "ICE BOX" Pro Shop -Skate Sharpening -2 Rinks -Public Skating -Figure Skating -Lessons -Snacks ­Arcade-Skate Rental-Free Parking 
SENIOR HOCKEY-"CHECK" AND "NO CHECK" DIVISIONS­Play in either or both divisions-16 men per team -Locker rooms with showers available-16 game season with holiday tourney and playoffs-Jerseys and referees furnished-$3.50 per game -Game times 9:15pm and 10:45 pm. SIGN UP NOW for league starting October 18th. 
For more information on this and our other programs call (219) 233-9441 
• •••••••••••••••••••••••• SENIOR HOCKEY•••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
3 • APPLICATION--­ ---SEND MORE INFORMATION  
Fri. "CHECK"---­ ---AGE  
Sun. "NO CHECK"  --­ POSITION  

Name---------------------------------------­
Address,-------------------------------Phon~-----­
'Tearafter vcar~ semester I after semester~ the CollegcMastcr·from Fidelitv Union Life has been the most acceptl~ most popular plan on campuses all over America. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity Union CollegeMaster .Field Associate m your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 
Phil Teah 
Agent 

Dave Witt 


Agent 
, . , , . , •_. II f, It II J, (~ ~~ lo •0 t0 I, I , , l ~ 1 

• • ' • • ' ~ j • ~ J ~ <I <I ,J ' ., ~ J l .' 
. .. ... ... . . .. .. . . .. .. ...... ~. .. . . . . . . . 

• • ~ ' ' J,. ~ _, ' ~ • ' il .. • • .. • • "' • • • • 
....... -~--.. 1<1.1# ................~-.. ~ .. 
mantezuma's revenrae IIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 


Golden Misnomer 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUUIIII..IIII-UIIIII ray ramireZ 

Amnesty for 
Darby? 
Editors: 
In light of recent political developments, I believe the issue of amnesty can be brought closer to home with an event which happened right here in our Notre Dame community last Thursday. 
After giving the matter all the consideration due it, the editorial board of The Edsel <St. Ed's hall newspaper, with a prestigious circulation of over 130!) has decided to take the position that complete, unconditional amnesty should be granted by Fr. Hesburgh to the unfortunate personage of one Darby O'Gill, for all offenses he may have committed in the past, as well as all transgressions he may commit in the future. Indeed, this would be "an act of con­science, compassion, and courage." 
Realizing the highly con­troversial nature of such a pardon, such forgiveness could increase the gap between the conservative and liberal camps; however, if consistency is to be maintained, amnesty is the only possible road. Sue ·h is the postiion of The Edsel, and such will be the position taken by all those who are responsible. 
By and for the editorial board, Charles T. Lucier Editor-in-chief of The Edsel 
Augustine Passions 
Dear Editor: 
Re: Mr. Hugh Harman 
Somewhere in between the 
Grotto, St. Augustine and Drapian 
Dogma I got lost. Are you really 
serious about your reading of St. 
Augustine? The same St. 
Augustine who views the ideal as a 
situation where one can "beget his 
children without suf­
fering ... passion" (City of God, 
XIV, 16)? 
Even Notre Dame will let you 
have passion after you're married· 
<the Irish influence, no doubt). 
Sincerely, Steve Bell 
DOONESBURY 
IF Y(){/ SEt ANYTHIN6 AT AlL 7HIS Y£4R, YOU HIJST (j() St/3 0ECIJNOMY '74," PRESI[J8ff F()R/)'S POMESTIC 51/M/1/T! 
7 

AND SUCH IS WOMAN 
Analysis of the creature known as woman as seen through the eyes of the chemist: 
Symbol: Wo 
Accepted Atomic Weight: 120 
Physical Properties: Boils at nothing and freezes at any minute. Melts when properly treated, very bitter if not well used. 
Occurrence: Found wherever men exist. 
Chemical Properties: Possess great affinity for gold, silver, platinum, and other precious stones. Violent reaction when left alone, able to absorb great amounts of :ood matter. Turns green when placed beside a better looking speciman. 
Uses: Highly ornamental, useful as a tonic in acceleration of low spirits and an equalizer of the distribution of wealth. Is the most effective income-reducing agent known. 
Caution: Highly explosive in inexperienced hands. 
Names Witheld on Request 
Bod Scenes Dept. 
To those who attended the McCandless Hall Party Friday, Sept. 20: 
We would like to take this op­portunity to formally apologize for the McCandless party Friday night. We realize the party was not a success due to several reasons. 
First of all, we feel the lack of girls was due to the fact that there was a $1.50 admission charge for girls only. The reasoning behind charging only the girls at a higher price rather than charging everyone <boys and girls) at a lower price, was that we were attempting to give the guys at Notre Dame a free party for a change. The response of the St. Mary's girls to the admission fee was unexpected and we guess it showed a lack of insight on our part. 
Another unforseen misfortune was the poor sound system. Having little technical knowledge of speakers and tape players in general, we blew a fuse in the amplifier after the first ten minutes of the party. Needless to say this did not contribute to the fun of the evening. 
In spite of all this there were quite a few people who remained and we would like to extend our appreciation to these people. This was our first attempt at throwing any type of a large party. We realize our mistakes and we will rectify them in the event of future parties. We hope you will not judge all St. Mary's parties by this first failure. 
Names witheld on Request 
letter from 
Prison 
Dear Sir: 
I am a lonely confined prisoner at the London Correctional In­stitution in Ohio. 
I am doing a 10 to 25 years for arm robbery. I been lock up for 13 months. 
I would appreciate it very much if you could print this letter for me? 
I do not have any family, friend, or any contact from the out side world. 
I would apprecate it very much hearing from people who do not mind writing to someone in prison. All letters are dearly wanted. 
I am 29 years old, white, single, I have brown hair and brown eyes. I am 5'9" and weigh 155lbs. My sign is Taurus. 
I promise to answer all letters, those who do write, could they sent a photo of there self. 
Mike Dunaway P.O. Box 69 London, Ohio 43248 

Now that the first shock waves of surprise, exhiliration, and disgust have subsided, freshmen and upper-classmen alike can begin to appreciate some of the finer points of life upon returning to this campus. Though I must admit, such fine points do seem rare and shy, we falter in any attempts to pursue them. Some may care for the instant expansion of the social scene, while just as many may curse a fate that has led them to a near-desert in a land of unquenchable thirst. Leave such broad consider&tions to the ex­perts of extrovertia and rather seek the more secluded and in­consequential results of a return to college life. 
Consider, if you will, the name game at Notre Dame. We all have names of one sort or another, whether they be the binomial nomenclature of the Anglo-Saxon tradition, the litany-of-Saints names of the Catholic traditk.1 or the ad-infinitum surnaming of the Latin tradition. Some are good, decent, solid naml's and some are names just begging to be picked apart and reassembled as some humbling sort of nick-name, but no matter wLat they are, they hold a certain importance to us. It is this fact that makes it so demeaning to suddenly find yourself, afterfouryears in high-school of instant recognition and greeting, a nameless freshman in a sea of nameless freshmen. You see the upperclassmen. They are all good friends and joke and swear and carry-on in a most familiar manner. They seem to know each other's name, but do they really? 
Listen closely. Those aren't names; those are various body parts and references to sultry pasts and clipped remnants of once sub­stantial cristenings. Their names are no more. They are now known to each other by what we call "nick-names," but this title is almost too trite for the implications in a new name. It is more than a handy label; perhaps its acquisiton is more akin to a sort of primeval tribal initiation, wherein a change in life or status is often accompanied by a change in name. The name is your identity, though it really shouldn't be, and thus people can only speak about others in terms of names. Something about your perso nality must either change or else become painfully obvious to everyone around you to effect such a change when you arrive here. Perhaps a speech mannerism or a constantly used expression leads to a new name; perhaps it i.:> something unusual about your ap­pearance; maybe it is that piece of spinach on your teeth. 
Still, one does need a designation of some sort, and you cannot appoach someone on a personal basis without first knowing how to address him, so the ingenious among freshmen listens to the conversations and picks up the names: the tall one is 'Ham', the fat one is 'Wretch', and so on. This continues until one day our eager frosh feels he is sufficiently primed with the labels of the up­perclassmen and can now approach them on a friendly basis. He may walk in on a communal discussion of diminishing returns or the true value of Kierkegaard and display his willingness to be one of the gang. "Hiya, Wretch ... howzitgoin' Ham", and so on he greets the jaded group of veterans, who amazingly enough do not see the action as socially constructive. Rather, they see someone brandishing hard-earned annd sacred nick-names as if they were indestructible bronze plaques that always have been and always will be. They fail to see the true meaning of these names; the sacred anc'delicatPbonds between friends they represent. They are a capsulation of personality, with all of its faults and idiosyn­cracies: a verbal·'shorthand" representing a person has no name carried from infancy can." 
So what is to be done with the well-meamng, out umntormeo freshman? Is he to be chastised fOT seeking to be friendly? I think not. Rather, he is to be somewhat pitied for his failure to see the little things which go to make comraderie a nearly tangible force on this campus. Wee all know little odd things about the people we have lived with for years, and the name we get from our friends is as the tip of an iceberg: outwardly insignificant, but a reminder of the hidden bulk that lurks beneath the surface. His failure to realize this is often mirrored by the upper-classmen's failure to understand his reasoning. More often not he will be scoffed at behind his back and made sport of publicly. But from his ridicule shall rise an appellation that says something as real to the people around him as their nick-names convey to each other. Mter you have had your ego sand-blasted away in that first hectic semester you need something more substantial than your I.D. number to identify you. Your friends will give it to you. It will be personal. It will be your name, and not some name you have to share with 
thousands of others. identity is yours.  Whether you want it or not, that  name,  that  
the observet  

by Garry Trudeau Night Editor: Tom O'Neil 
PROCGG{)S 7lJ 
60 TO TH6 CIVPPt&IJ 
HOUSING IN[){ISTRY. 
'f 

Ass't Night Editor: Dan Sanchez 
Layout: Mary· Janca, Martha Fanning, Bob Varettoni, Jim Stevens 
Copy Reader: Jim Donathen, Jim 
Eder Day Editor: Tom Russo Editorials: Fred Graver Features: Robert Baker Sports: Bill Brink, Greg Corgan 
Typists:  Barb  Norcross,  Barb  
Haug,  Tom  Modglin,  Jim  
Landis, Rick Huber  
Compugraphic  Operator:  Phil  

Orscheln Picture Screener: AI D'Antonio Night Controller: Howard Halle 
-----------~-----­
Tuesday, September 24, 1974 the observer 5 
a friday afternoon press conference 

Certain members of the Observer staff attended a press conference with Angela Davis Friday afternoon at the Black Students Cultural Center. Ms. Davis was speaking as a representative for the National Alliance against Racism and Political Repression. 
In 1970 Ms. Davis was arrested on charges of kidnapping, murder, and conspiracy in_ connection with the August shoot-out in­volving Jonathon Jackson, a judge, and two black convicts. She was apprehended two months after the incident in New York City and spent sixteen months in jail. She was released on bond five days before she was supposed to stand trial. In June, 1972, an all­white jury found Angela Davis innocent of all three charges. 
When we came in the Black Students Center, we found Ms. Davis seated on the edge of the sofa, her elbows resting upon her knees, very much relaxed and at ease with the black students that she was talking with. 
She is tall, very slender, and wears a large Afro. She was dressed in a maroon t-shirt and black cordoroy jeans and was wearing turquoise jewelry, wooden beads, and gold hoop earrings. One thing we noticed right away was that she was smoking a pipe, and later we saw that she had a piece of gold stone embedded in the left side of her nose. Ms. Davis appeared to be very tired; one 
of her eyes was bloodshot and she had to put 
drops in it, but she was willing to talk to us. 
She spoke in a calm voice, different from 
what we had expected, yet we could sense 
the intensity behind her soft-spoken man­
ner, especially when she talked about the 
oppression of black people in this country 
and in the world. 
"We have to be willing to struggle. 
That's the only way in which we can sur­
vive. I'm not talking about the few black 
people that have made it; I'm talking about 
people in Harlem, for instance, where 
unemployment is 40 per cent." 
Ms. Davis told us that what she hoped to 
reparts ta the 

' 
' 

angela davis close up 
accomplish in her talk Friday night was to convince people that they have to get in­volved in the movement against racism and political repression. She wanted to inforrm people of the cases of injustice so that they could understand what is going on in this country. Anyone who could not understand the need to do something about these problems after hearing about them could be accused of callousness. 
"The Alliance against Racism and Political Repression was created in an attempt to develop a fund"-multi-racialm multi­national, multi-ideological. If we don't do that now, we'll all be eliminated, in­dividulaly and as members of certain organizations. So far we have had a fan­tastic response, which indicates that the sentiment is there." 
Ms. Davis talked at length about the women's movement and how important its potential is. Yet she feels it is necessary to develop a consciousness within the women's movement of the relationship between that movement and other struggles. It should be related in a "very organic way" to the sturggles of the most oppressed women of all-the blacks, Puerto Ricans, chicanos, Indians, and poor white women. 
She feels that the abortion decision was 
correct, based on the view that women have 
the right to control their own bodies, yet "we 

raeaphysic:al saciety 




further notes on the ducks 
c:lytemestra van der var:.elweide 
by janet deneefe 

have to look at the other side of the coin." Women who so desire to have children should have this right. She cited the example of women on welfare who will lose these benefiits unless they submit to sterilization, and that this is unequivocally wrong. She is of the opinion that more Black, Chicano, and Puerto Rican women would actively participate in the women's movement if it would become cognizant of their struggles for equality. 
Racism was defined as a madness that drives not only whites mad, but also blacks. Yet white people themselves do not oppress black people, they are simply being manipulated by a system which uses racism to perpetuate and shut out the masses from any type of meaningful participation­economically, politically, and socially-in the society. Consequently, white people must struggle aginst racist attitudes. 
We asked Ms. Davis if she thought a change in the system would have to be achieved through violence, and she an­swered us earnestly: "That's a question that shouldn't even be asked of us. We don't want any of our people to die--we've shed enough blood--so we aren't going to intiiate the violence. You should ask those on the other side whether or not they are going to allow the masses of people to come into their own, or whether or not they are going to confront us with violence when we say we want justice and equality. Those people are the ones who control the violence." 
When asked how she felt the day she was acquitted, Ms. Davis grinned widely and fell back against the sofa, laughing. "It was a beautiful feeling! I felt very happy for myself, but then I felt that it wasn't right to get too happy, because that was only one victory. There were so many more of my brothers and sisters who had an equal right to be free in the same way that I was." 
With the kind of intense determination that Ms. Davis displayed, it doesn't seem likely that she will ever stop pursuing these goals. 
Further Notes on the Significance of the Notre Dame Ducks in the Investigation of Pre-Columbian Norse Settlements in St. Joseph County, Indiana 
In answer to certain objections to our theory of the origins and significance of the Notre Dame Ducks raised by our learned and esteemed collegue Dame Helen of Lewis, Titular Abbess of Whitby at the September 15th meeting of the Friends of Chaucer Society we must point out first the extreme conservatism of animalian phonetics as has been demonstrated in such scholarly works as "The Persistance of Quechua Among Benkely Guinea Pigs" (1) "Towards an Appreciation of the Phonetic System of Ecclesiastical Coptic through a Study of the Vowel Patterns of Church Owned Camels" (2) and our own work Relics of Minnesinger Rhetoric in the Folk Verse of Sicily, Tyrol and the Rhineland (3) in which we proposed a reconstruction of the vowel system of Middle High German based on the usage of plow horses in a number of isolated Tyrolean Valleys. Thus we may be sure that the vowel system presently in use by the Notre Dame Ducks does not represent a reversion but a genuinely traditional usage of great and unbroken antiquity. Only human beings undergo vowel changes through their own devices-­
animals rarely if ever except in immitation of humans necessitated by frequent oc­casions for conversation. The Norse appear to have talked to ducks on a regular basis at least until circa 1400, the Icelandic vowel shift occured in circa 1250 changing (Kvak) to <KBak) (4) thus indicating that either they ceased to speak to human before 1250 or the humans they talked to never went under the Great Norse Vowel shift which all Norse settlements from Greenland east did. It must be noted here however that if the Notre Dame undergraduates persist in speaking in modern English to the ducks the impressionable ducklings may undergo to the confusion of their elders the English Great Vowel shift thus causing both a severe generation gap and an inestimable loss to Western scholarship. To maintain the linguistic purity of the present duck dialect we propose therefore that Old Norse be substituted in the Freshman year program for Calculus which is obviously of no use in 
dealing with ducks. 
In further support of our theory regarding the Notre Dame ducks we would mention the undersized dark age grapes growing on the side of the administration building which are presently undergoing analysis by the noted botanical historian Johannes Clarendon but which we believe to be proto­rieslings. In addition we must argue the yet incomplete out persuasive evidence being 
daily uncovered by our learned colleguue Miss Eusebia May Gumms, B. A., M.A. Dip. Engl. Stud. who has been conducting a furtive excavation of the Pre-Columbalan foundation to be observed beneath the Notre Dame Boat House which she believes to be the sight of the great hall of the Norse set­tlement of Kvakandabakki, occupied beginning circa 1000 A.D. for a period of not less than 50 nor more than 180 years. The colony of Kvakandabakki celebrated in Icelandic literature derives its name meaning."Quacker's Bank" from the flock of the celebrated Freydis Ericksdotter (see last week's article). We are also told by unofficial sources that one Professor Wilburforce Buhndoggel, Ph.D., M.S.D. of this university disappeared into the sub­basement of the Memorial Library some nine years ago from which he reemerged eighteen months ago only to buy another thousand index cards and that at that time he casually remarked to the noted campus thinker Darby O'Gill, Esq. that he would soon be contacting the Ingstads at L'Anse­aux-Meadows. Until we are contacted by Professor Buhndoggel, we will however refrain from rash judgements as to the nature and significance of his work. Despite the Philistine attitude of this thoughtless age which however it may find anything leaves everything in poured concrete Miss Gumms. is pursuing the delicate work of 

excavation of Kvakandabakki armed only with erudition, typing eraser, and shar­pened pencil ( No. 2) we therefore urge all student of scholarly and charitable bent to report Saturday morning about dawn to the boat house girt about with the same pencil 
· sharpeners will be provided. 

(I) 
Journal of Rodent Studies, XXXLVIII <Winter, 1945), 194-256. 

(2) 
Proceedings of the Center for Ec­clesi_astical Literature at Grossburg, LXL <Sprmg, 1892), 37-89. 

(3) 
published by the press of the Ducal University at Katzenbollen 


Clytemestra von der Vogelweide is the author of innumerable articles in such learned journals as The Proceedings of the Royal Historical Society of Mecklinberg­Howzatagain and The Dark Age Digest of the Ducal University of Katzenbollen and of several books, notably The Search for Father Sorin, A Manual of Medieval Fan­cywork, The Care and Feeding of Poets, The Development of Cavalry Tactics and Strategy from the Saxon Shore Forts to the Battle of Agincourt, A Social History of the -:J Howzatagainian Court in the Reign of Alinor the Ax, etc. 
.t the observer Tuesday, September 24, 1974 
Campus Briefs • • • 
Du Lac receives 

research grants 
The University of Notre Dame 
has accepted $198,470 in awards for 
the month of August to support 
individual faculty research 
projects and for innovative 
educational programs. 
--$56,116 from the National 
Aeronautics and Space Ad­
ministration (NASA) for study of 
the influence of blade leading on 
"acoustic response of a cascade" 
by Dr. Hafiz Atassi, associate 
professor of aerospace and 
mechanical engineering. 
--$24,000 from NASA for coor­
dinated design of coding and 
modulation systems by Dr. 
James L. Massey, Frank M. 
Freimann professor of electrical 
engineering. 
--$23,340 from the National In­
stitutes of Health <NIH) for study 
of the structure and mechanisms 
of heart enzymes by Dr. Jermiah 
P. Freeman, chairman and professor of chemistry. 
--$17,970 from NIH for study of 
isozymes of heart glutamate 
asparatee transaminase by Dr. 
Marino Martinez-Carrion, 
professor of chemistry. 
--$6,050 from the Ford· Foun­
dation for study of the value of 
children to natural and adoptive 
parents by Dr. Richard A. Kurtz, 
professor of sociology and an­
thropology. 
--$5,000 from Phi Beta Psi Sorority for a cancer research project conducted by Dr. Kenyon 
S. Tweedell, professor of biology. 
Awards for educational programs totaled $65,994 and in­cluded: --$60,994 fromm the U.S. Environment Protection Agency for a joint program in en­vironmental engineering and law administered by Dr. Jerry J. Manley, associate professor of engineering. 
--$5,000 !rom the U.S. Small Business Administration for a program of management con­sultant assistance for small business administered by Dr. f<'rank Yeandel, assistant dean of the College of Business Ad­ministration. 
Security spends rmst time ticketing 
by John Shaughnessy Staff Reporter 
Seventy-five percent of the Notre Dame Security Department's time and manpower is spent in con­trolling student traffic violations, according to director Arthur Pears. 
"The main problem is that students don't read the traffic rules and regulations found in the student manual", explained Pears. 
The most common violations the 
security office has faced invole not 
parking within the marked lines, 
parking in undesignated areas 
such as faculty and staff lots, and 
blocking of entrances and exits. 
The frequency of parking 
violations "is not due to inadequate 
space". claimed Pears. "In fact, 
parking section C-4 has been 
especially set aside to handle the 
overflow of vehicles from other 
lots, "he pointed out. 
Fines for violations range from 
$1 for minor parking violations to 
$50 for failure to register one's 
vehicle. If the violator fails to pay 
the penalty fee to the Traffic 
Violations Bureau, located on the 
grQund floor of the Administration Building, the amount is added to the student's account. Appeals of Boy'S home Choirtickets are also made at the Traffic Bureau. 
Pears urged the estimated 3000 
SCheduleS CODCert Robert Hupp. All att~nded a nine­
registered vehicles owners to 
familiarize themselves with the rules and regulations. "A major The choir of the world-famousproportion of the traffic difficulties Father Flanaga's Boys' Home will could thus be solved -a result present a concert at 8:15 p.m.
beneficial to all parties involved," Wednesday, September 25, in
he said. 
Washington Hall. The program is sponsored by the Department ofPsych ~meting Music and is open to the public 
without charge. 
The concert choir, made up of

to be held an homeless boys from all areas of the 
United States, is presently on a

September 24 tour of the western states that has 
extended from San Diego to 

All undergraduate psychology a return Omaha
Canada and to 

students casually or seriously through the midwest When it interested in pursuing graduate 
returns home this fall the choir will studies in psychology should at­have traveled more than 250,000tend a meeting Tuesday Sep­miles since it was organized in 
tember 24th at 6:30 in 119 Haggar 
1946.

Hall. Questions will be answered From angelic soprano to concerning application, tests, and resonant bass, the choirboys offer other matters concerning graduate lilting Viennese waltzes, folk songs schools in psychology. and calypso, musical comedy and 
classical polyphony. Each member is a bonafide citizen of the nationally famous Boys' Town founded by Father Flanagan in 1917 and now. directed by Rev. 
week summer sessiOn so that schoolwork would not be missed during the tour. 
Beginning with 20 musically ambitious boys, the choir has until today more than a 


220 W. Marion -Elkhart 

Serving Michiana's Music Community for 25 years 
Special Student Discount Bring your student 10 


And we can offer outstanding career opportunities in Engineering, Programming or Marketing. We will be interviewing at 
The University of Notre Dame &Saint Marys College on Oct.8, 1974. 
To find out about IBM and let us find out about you, sign up for an interview at the Placement Office or write to: Mr. I.C. Pfeiffer, College Relations Manager, IBM Corporation, One IBM Plaza, Chicago, Illinois 60611. 
IBM 
An equal opportunity employer 

third of the Home's population take part in the vocal music program. Three choirs, concert, repertoire and chancel, have been formed by Msgr. Francis P. Schmitt, choral director. 
The appearance of the choir at Notre Dame is a complimentary performance. Notre Dame's Glee Club performed last year at Boys' Town during a tour of western states. 

0. •. ' J I r ~ I ~ • / o I I t • I 

........... '. 
I I I I I I 1 I f I f I • • .0 • •·I..• • • 
'. . ' 
Tuesday, September 24, 1974 the observer 

SLC discusses alcohol rules and panty raids 
(continued from page 1) 
The Council considered and rejected two versions of a fourth point concerning possible penalties. One of the rejected proposals stated that penalties could run from a w~ming to being moved off campus, depending on the seriousness of the situation. The second proposal would have simply stated that the mention of a $50 fine in Macheca 's directive was "meant only as an example for the most serious cases." The SLC decided that both additions would be superfluous 
McLaughlin felt that the first 
three points clarified things 
adequately as far as the students 
are concerned. "Students will 
know where they stand now," he 
said. 
The original directive was never 
meant to imply that $50 fines would 
be levied in every instance 
Macheca explained. "That was 
never intended to be a hard and 
fast penalty. It was just an 
example of how a very serious 
situation might be handled." 
In other action the Council ac­
cepted an official SLC statement 
prepared by McLaughlin and 
district IV representative Denis 
Sullivan on the SMC panty raid. 
The statement says in part A: 
"Raids at St. Mary's college had 
been incorporated as part of.. .long­
standing tradition. Formerly they 
were conducted spontaneously and 
in a sense of free spirit and good 
fun. Recently they have become 
an activity where the sense of good 
spirit has become secondary to 
physical destruction and 
psychological harm inflicted upon 
members of he St. Mary's 
community brings this type of "fun" into question. 
"While these unfortunate ac­tions can be attributed to the ac­tions of a minority of srudents on both campuses, the responsibility rests with all of us. It is our duty to see that the rights and property of all individuals are respected protected. 
"With this in mind, the members of the Student Life Council, students, faculty members, and administrators, ask that these sensless activities come to an end. It is hopedthatthe members of the 
ND-SMC  community  will  act  
appropriately  in  regard  to  this  
matter."  

Frank Flanagan, SLC chairman, has also written a letter of apology to St. Mary's. 
Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant to the provost announced that the rectoresses of the women's dorms have agreed to unlock the main door to each hall from 12:00 p.m. to 
6:00 p.m. "We still keep them closed at night because of very real security threats from off­campus , she explained. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 



DAILY CROSSWORD PUZZLE 
Copr. "74 Gen"l Features Corp. ACROSS 45 Astronaut 1 Part of a derrick47 Medieval, 5 Ankle bom,s merchant 10 Matches for 2 grotip: Var. Down et al.: 49 Gait Abbr. 50 Symbols of un­
14 Fictiqnal dog receptiveness 15 Myth1c.al hunter 53 City at junction 16 Opera feature of Mohawk and 
17 Seal a bargain Hudson 19 City of .N !<'ranee 57 "... I cannot 20 "Porgy and Bess" tell -" 
character 58 Gangster's 21 Where Sunday lawyer becomes Monday 60 Soil 
10 Texas city 11 Idea: Colloq. 12 Social beast 13 Safe's companion 18 Habituate 22 Greenland base 24 Tralee's county 26 Barkley 27 S~reet:. ~p. . 28 Rifle a1mmg a1d 29 Transactions 31 City of Portugal 32 Arrested: Slang 35 Expert 38 light and filmy 
23 Ruined: Slang 61 Man with a mike39 Boiling 25 Dev·ilish one 62 Pleasant 41 Sandy ridge 26 Granted 63 Free's companion 42 Large ladle 30 Sadat's prede-64 Garden tools 44 -pin 
cessor 65 Watkins-, N.Y.46 Certain 33 The street: Fr. DOWN monuments 34 Arrive at 48 Scent 36 Power project: 1 Bernstein opus 50 Miami's county 
!nits. 2 Tennis name 51 Lamb 37 Stain 3 Play the lead 52 Consume, as a 38 Rank 4 Extracts lollipop 39 Shortly 5 Accessible 54 --de-boeuf 40 Trains of a sort 6 Southern (round or oval 
41 Arthur Conan-constellation window 42 A saw: Prefix 7 Peel 55 Behold: Lat. 43 Centaur slain by 8 Fountain treats 56 Observed Hercules 9 Example 59 Letter 

CLASSIFIED ADS 

LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: H.S. ring in O'Shag piano room. Initials A.J.F. Gold. Call 8624. 
Lost: black wallet between · Engineering and N. Dining Hall. 
I.D. no. 731069729. Reward if returned. Call Dave, 233·3647. 
Lost: Schwinn 10-speed. Reward if found. Call 1694. 
Lost: 1 gold-filled Cross pen on shuttle bus Fri. evening, Sept 13. Has name engraved on barrel. Reward. John, 3540. 
Lost: Saturday between faculty parking lot and Dillon. Silver ring, black stone, inscribed "Chris." Call 7954. 
Lost: theology notebook Friday morni"ng, Sept 20. "Understanding Faith." Extremely important, Please call Jim, 3597. 
Found: keys near E119ineering bldg. 289-3369. 
WANTED 

Need 8 tix tor Purdue. Call 288­7946. 
Needed desperately. 1 GA ticket to Rice game. Tom, 8398. 
Need 1 Purdue GA or student tix. Will pay good price. Call Frank, 1015. 
Desperately needed. 2 Presley concert tickets. Willing to pay well. Phone 259-0408 after 5 pm. 
Urgently need 6 Purdue tickets. Call Tom, 288-7637. 
Need ride to Chicago, preferably O'Hare. Thursday, Sept 26. Fitz, 287-3463. 
Need 2 GA tix tor Purdue, Rice. Call Sue, 7837. 
Need trom 1 to 10 tickets to Purdue game. Call Joe, 289-3751. 
Need 2 GAR ice tix. Will pay$. Call Charlie, 8283. 
Need 2 GA Pitt tix. Will pay! Sue, 
6771. 
Needed desperately by Wed­nesday. 2-~ GA tix to Purdue. Call Nance, 6717. 
Need 6 GA tix tor Purdue. Will pay mucho $. Call Steve, 289-1376. 
Need 2 GA tix tor Purdue. Call Greg, 3687. 
Need 2 Army tix. Call 287-0076. 
Desperately need 1 Purdue tix. Call John, 8883. 
Wanted: 1 Rice tix. Call 284-4731. 
Need 2 GA fix tor Purdue. Will pay$, Call Jim, 3303. 
Need desperately GA Pitt tickets. Please call Monica, 4489. 
Need 1 student or GA ticket for Purdue. Desperate. Will pay $. Call Paul, 3178. 
Need 6 GA Purdue fix. Will pay $. Call Mr. Heekin, 277-0067. 
Need tix tor Elvis. Call Ellen, 4720. 
Need 2 GA tix for any home game in Oct. Call Ellen, 4720. 
Needed: 2 GA tix tor Purdue. Call Marianne, 5247. 
Help wanted: construction laborers · $2.50 hr. min. 8-5 Man­Sat. Parttime or tulltime. Apply in person. Fat Wally's Electric Beer Joint. 2046 S. Bend Ave. 
Desperately need 3 Purdue tickets. Call 272-9599. 
Needed: driver for 3 year old inS. Bend. One hour per day, $20 per week. Call collect Sat mornings before 10 am.AC 312-693-2281. 
Need riders to St. Louis or Kansas City. Leaving Thurs. Call Paul, 8854. 
Need 2 GA Purdue tickets. Call Jim, 272-7734. 
FOR RENT 
1 or 2 singles off campus. 1021 Demaude Ave. $55 mo. total. 1 block from grocery, laundry, babakery. Call 232-2773. 
PERSONALS 
To SMC girls: Need date to keep sanity. AP· plicant must be average looking, kind, sensitive, no experience necessary. Ca II 8547. 
Madame Sophie: Did you enjoy the movie? Did your hands fall asleep? 
Fourth Level Fred 
Three Months Pregnant: Didn't your mother ever tell you about men who wear shower caps? 
American Bride: Don't be afraid. surprise around every corner. Tokyo Turban 

Maryellen: Happy Birthday, even if you're not the "real" T.C. 
Love and kisses, Martino, Trots, Shires, Drais 

Sinnott: Higgins A-Bombs Inc. Will sell cheapshots to any physicist. call 
Goett, 1788. 
scott K. 

Demand for you exceeds supply. Typical female logician. 
NOTICES 

Will the person who picked"up the blue sweater out on US 31 please ca II 4988 or 4904. 
MONEY? Morissey Loan Fund can lend you up to $150. Basement of LaFor­iune, daily, 11:15-12:15. 
SHA NA NA TICKETS NOW AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. HOURS THIS SEMESTER WILL BE FROM 12:15-5:00 MWF and 11:00 -1:00 & 2:30 · 5:00 TTH. 
If you have love to give and need extra money . S. Bend Nursing Home has openings tor parttime aides and orderlies. 11:00 pm to 7:30am three nights per week. 232­4486 tor interview or stop at ·s. Bend Nursing Home, 328 Notre Dame. 
TICKETS FOR THE LYNYRD SKYNYRD-HYDRA CONCERT OCTOBER 1 AT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
FOR SALE 

Honeywell Pentrax Spotmatic Takumar 1:2 55 mm lens. Ray, 287-0076. 
Brand new tennis rackets -Wilson Head all kinds. Big discounts. Call anytime, John, 1646. 
FOR SALE: PAIR OF TICKETS TO SEPT 30 ELVIS PRESLEY CONCERT. SECOND ROW, SECTION B. BEST OFFER. CALL 6818 BETWEEN 9:00 and 11:00 PM. 
1970 Chevy stationwagon, low milage, good condition, good on gas. $995. 272-8246. Weekdays after 5:30pm. 
2 Presley bleacher seats. Best offer. 277-0014 after 7 pm. 


the observer Tuesday, September 24, 1974 Purdue gains victory over Irish golfers by one stroke 
by Bill Delaney the match, especially with 
Culveyhouse's play." said co-
Coach Noel O'Sullivan brought captain Jeff Burda. "For a first his Notre Dame GQlf Team down to match, we really performed well. the Purdue South Course last A stroke here or there may have Friday, but came away on the changed the match, but we needed straight end of the putter, losing by the competitiop to get our a single stroke to the Boiler-momentum rolling. The course makers, 384-383. The Irish, led by was in better shape than last year Jim Culveyhouse's two-over-par <when the Irish played in the 73, gave Purdue a tough match, but Northern Intercollegiates), but the opening-match jitters coupled with greens were definitely much a Jack of familiarity with the harder than before. I was driving course did Notre Dame in. the ball well throughout my round, 
"I was happy with the results of but my 75 included being four-over 
Qeg O>r~~:::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
The Irish Eye 
-:::::>::"*--.:::::::::::i-:::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=::::;i::~::~::::.::::::::::::::::::}. Weekend results 
Itseems that the Irish schedule is shaping up a little tougher than most people originally counted on. In a week of upsets Irish opponents had two of the biggest. . . 
Surprising Navy managed to hold off the Nittany LIOns of Penn State 7-6 
in one of the giant upsets. Of course Penn State tried its hardest to lose. 
The Lions fumbled seven times including five times within the Navy 15 
yard line, and kicker Chris Bahr missed four field goal attempts. The 
Middies scored their only touchdown on a four yard pass from fullback 
Bob Jackson to wide receiver Robin Ameen. Navy Coach George Welch 
probably said it best, "Penn State beat us pretty good. The big thing that 
kept us in the game, of course, were their errors." 
Miami of Florida with whom the Irish tangle on October 26, upset the 
highly-touted Coug~rs of Houston 20-3. "We're no flash in the pan li~e l~st 
year's team," said Hurricane middle guard Ruben Carter. M1a!'u's 
defense held Houston to its lowest offensive output, 239 total yeards, m 25 
games.
Elsewhere on NO's 1974 schedule, the Pitt Panthers used 168 yards 
rushing and two touchdowns from sophomore Tony Dorsett to overpower 
Georgia Tech '1:1-17. The Panthers upped their record to 2-0 while Tech's 
dropped to 1-2. 
The Michigan State Spartans continued to play some impressive 
football. MSU defeated the Orangemen of Syracuse 19-0 on a second 
quarter touchdown and two fourth per!od _six-po~ters. The only_ thing the 
Spartans seem to be having trouble w1th IS making the extra pomts. The 
Irish travel to East Lansing on Oct. 5 to face State. 
The "softer" touches on the Irish schedule, Army and Rice suffered 
losses. Tulane's Green Wave inundated the Cadets 31-14. That comes as 
no surprise since Army barely got by Lafayette last week. 
Rice lost to lowly Cincinnati at home and must play LSU next week 
before they face Notre Dame on Oct. 12. AI Conover will probably shoot a 
few more writers this week. 
Air Force NO's opponent on November 23lost to Oregon '1:1-23 while the 
University ~f Southern California had an off week. The Trojans take on 
Pittsburgh in the Steel City next weekend. 
Purdue continued to play lackluster football tying Miami of Ohio 7-7. 
The Boilers are next on the Irish schedule in what is traditionally a hard­
fought contest and despite the slow start Alex Agase will have them ready 
for this one. 
Last weekend was a disaster for a lot of college powers. Not only did 
Penn State leave the ranks of the undefeated via the upset, but Nebraska 
was dumped byWisconsin, LSU lost to Texas A&M at Baton Rouge, 
Maryland was beaten by Florida, Illinois upset Stanford, Arkansas lost to 
Oklahoma State at Little Rock and Iowa defeated UCLA 21-10. 
The Irish Eye top twenty: 
Position last week
No. Weekend Results 1.) Notre Dame Beat Northwestern 49-3 2 2.) Ohio State Beat Oregon State 51-10 3 3.) Oklahoma did not play 1 4.) Alabama Beat Southern Mississippi 52-0 5 5.) Michigan Beat Colorado 31-10 6 6.) Texas Beat Wyoming 34-7 11 7.) Arizona Beat Indiana 35-20 7 8.) USC did not play 10 9.)Nebraska Lost to Wisconsin 21-20 4 10.) LSU Lost to Texas A&M 21-14 8 11.) Wisconsin Beat WNebraska 21-20 unranked 12.) Pittsburgh Beat Georgia Tech '1:1-17 15 13.) Texas A&M Beat LSU 21-14 unranked 14.) Miami Beat Houston 20-3 19 15.) Oklahoma State Beat Arkansas 26-7 unranked 16.) Arkansas Lost to Oklahoma State 26-7 9 17.) Arizona State Beat TCU 37-7 18 18.) Penn State Lost to Navy 7-6 12 19.) Tulane Beat Army 31-14 unranked 20.) Tennessee Beat Kansas 17-3 unranked 

and the worst ten: 
1.) Wake Forest 
2.) Columbia 
3.) Virginia Tech 
4.) Army 
5.) California 
6.) Utah 
7.) Clemson 
8.) Indiana 
9.) Northwestern 
10.) Southern Mississippi 
Lost to North Carolina 31-0 did not play Lost to SMU 28-25 Lost to Tulane 31-14 Beat San Jose State 17-16 Lost to UTEP 34-7 Lost to North Carolina State 31-10 Lost to Arizona 35-20 Lost to Notre Dame 49-3 Lost to Alabama 52-0 

Jim Culveyhouse sparkled with a two-over par 73, but the Irish linkers lost by a stroke to Purude Friday. 
home course advantage means impressive play this weekend on anything at all, look for some the part of the Irish linkers. 



OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
for the five par-three holes-­something I never expected." 
Balanced play among the top four provided O'Sullivan with some joy despite the loss. Paul Koprowski and Mike Kistner finished the day with scores of 76 and 78 respectively, with Koprowski hitting 15 greens in regulation. Ed Whalen and Rich Knee posted scores of 82 and 88, with Knee suffering four out-of­bounds penalties. "It's tough to include an 82 for the team score, but what else can you do?" com­mented O'Sullivan. "The outcome of the match could have changed anywhere, but that's only wishful thinking on my part. I do know now it feels like to lose by a single point, as Bear Bryant did in the Sug~r Bowl." 
Perhaps the bright spot of the match was the competitive edge gained by the linkers. "We worked on the psychological edge all last year, and toward the end, you could see a difference in the team's play. We played a Purdue team Friday that had ten kids on full scholarship, and we came within a single stroke of beating them. They even had the home course advantage, and Knee and Whalen had never ever seen the course before. Yes, I definitely think this match will make us a more solid team." 
This Sunday, Purdue travels up to the Burke Course to meet the Irish. "We're all looking forward to playing Purdue up here, and we'll give them a good match." said a determined Burda. "We're gaining momentum with each round, and we'll be ready." If the 
]V's bow to Michigan 31-12 
By George Eckes 
Statistically, the Notre Dame J. 
V. football squad outplayed the visiting Wolverines from the University of Michigan Sunday, before a crowd that braved un­seasonable cold weather in the hopes of seeing a repeat of the varsity encounter against out­matched Northwestern. The scoreboard, however did not correspond to the statistics sheet , as the men from Ann Arbor took home an impressive 31-12 rout.· 
Mental and physical mistakes proved to be the downfall for the Irish, especially in the first half. Midway in the first quarter, while both teams were playing even football Joe Montana attempted a punt from his 8 yard line. Shaun board in the middle of the 3rd 
Szenderski recovered the blocked quarter as Freshman Nick DiCicco attemptirthe air and waltzed in the did some fancy footwork around end zone with the game's first right end for an eight yard TD run. score. The Irish looked like they were on 
At the outset of the 2nd quarter,a the comeback trail as Garyperfectly _,placed 20 yard pass Forystek, a freshman quarterback from Wolverine quarterback John from Livonia Mi. opened the 4th Ceddia found it's target in Darrell period with a screen pass to Mike Truitt and the Irish were behind by Parseghian who, behind good 
14. blocking rambled 30 yards for the 
N.D. couldn't get untracked score. The two point conversion throughout the remainder of the failed as Forystek tried to take it in 2nd period as they fumbled a total himself and was brutally turned of seven times in the half, four of back in his attempt. Michigan then those coming off the snap from proceeded toice the game as they center. With two minutes left in scored their final points on a 44 the half, Coach Dennis Murphy's yard pass play. troops had one last chance when Despite 10 fumbles and 2 in­they forced Michigan to punt at terceptions the Irish did have some their own 30. But Ronnie Cullin, bright spots. High onthe list would the deep man, promptly had the haveto be the pass receiving of ball knocked loose into the hands of Dan Kelleher. The 5-11 a waiting Wolverine. That set up a sophomore caught 8 passes for 152 Steve Knickerbocker field goal to yards and most of those came make the score 17-0 at halftime. while the Wolverine secondary was 
The Wolverines started the 3rd quite aware of the pass situation. period with an impressive pass Four Irish quarterbacks threw 43 play that netted 50 yards and times in the game, an amazing 37 another 6 points. times in the 2nd half. Most of those 
Notre Dame finally got on the were aimed at Kelleher. Coach Dennis Murphy comments, "Dan played an exceptional game. He was constantly open all day. Along with our half-backs receiving those screen passes, thought the passing game went well, considering everyone knew we were forced to go to the air." Murphy also praised the offensive line. "They gave our quarterbacks plenty of time to throw the ball and blocked well against the Wolverine front line." 
Gary Forystek's arm proved a high point as he pitched 11 out of 17 for 144 yards, accounting for almost half of the 299 yards ac­cumulated by the Irish through the air. 
The Irish will play Purdue in Lafeyett next, but the date has not yet been set. 
Wo~mn's golf 
There will be a meeting of all girls interested in joining the Notre Dame women's golf team on Wednesday, September 25 at 7:00 
p.m. in the Badin Hall Lounge. 




