
On The Inside 
Reactions to Nixon Speech ... page 2 
C.O.U.P. Report ... page 3 

Vol. VIII, No. 69 
~------,.,----------...~-~--, 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 

Denies resignation 
Nixon delivers union address· 
By Helen Thomas 
WASHINGTON <UPI)--Declaring that "one year of Water11.ate is enough," President Nixon urged Congress and the special prosecutor Wednesday to finish their investigations of the scandal and permit the nation loge! down to solving the energy crisis and inflation 
promises cooperation 
At the end of a hard-hitting, 45-minute State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress and a nationwide broadcast audience, Nixon answered a question on the minds of many of his listeners. 
"I want you to know that I have no intention whatever of walking away from the jmob that the peopie elected r.1e to do," the President said to a roar of applause from his Republican supporters in the House chamber. 
Nixon promised to cooperate with the House Judiciary Cnmr.1ittee's impeachment inquiry, but indicated he r.1ight invoke executive privilege to withhold sor.1e White House documents it sought. Nixon said he would do nothing to weaken the authority of the presidency-the same argument he once used in fighting subpoenas for his Watergate !apes. 

discusses oil crises 
On the energy crisis, the President disclosed that Arab oil-producing countries would meet "in the ir.1r.1ediate future" to discuss lifting the oil embargo against the United States because of Middle East peace negotiations. 
But Nixon warned that any resumption of Arab oil shipr.,ents would only ease the crisis, and he pressed Congress for swift approval of emergency powers to cope with long-range shortages, including authority to impose gasoline rationing. 
While terminf!, energy the highest priority problem Congress faces this year, the President vowed . everything in his power to avert rationing. 
Nixon also promised to check inflation-if Congress cooperates by holding down spending. "There will be no recession in the United States of America," he pledged. 

lists legislative goals 
In a separate, 25,000 word written message to the House and Senate, the President disclosed he will propose next week a record $304.4 billion federal budget for fiscal 1975 with a built-in deficit of $9.4 billion--but without a tax increase. 
In that message, and in his speech Wednesday night, Nixon outlined a 10-point list of legislative goals for this year, highlighted by a comprehensive, $40 billion-a-year plan for national health insurance with private' coverage to be financed mostly by employer-worker payroll premiums. 

disputes Kennedy 
Signaling his intention to wage a determined political fight over the issue, the President scathingly referred to Sen. Edward M. Kennedy's alternative cradle-to-grave health insurance plan as "the wrong approach." 
Without mentioning Kennedy's name, Nixon said his proposal for a government-financed coverage would cost $80 billion to $100 billion a year in tax funds and would put health care "under the heavy hand of government." 
The President's tensely awaited speech-his first State of the Union message since Watergate engulfed his administration--was interrupted 33 times by applause. Most of it was perfunctory and loudest from the Republican side of the aisle. 
(continued on page 7) 
Thursday, January 31, 1974 


The Arbitrator 

One of the Computing Center's IBM terminals awaits the time that it begins accepting data to produce the campus-wide housing lot­tery today. 'Selection will be on a random basis by hall and class, and results will be distributed to each hall. (Staff photo by Maria Gallagher). 
Extra day added to spring vacation 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
University Provost Fr. James Burtchaell announced Wednesday that an extra day has been added to the end of the Spring mid­semester break in order to avoid student travel on Sunday. 
Speaking at a meeting of the 
college deans and heads of 
Assistant Provost William Burke said, "When the original calendar was drawn up, nobody had to worry about getting gas on Sun­day.'' 
"Now the high number of out-of­state students needing tran­sportation and gas to get back to ,Notre Dame after the breaks concerns us," Burke said. 
academic programs, Fr. Burt­chaell stated that post-vacation classes will begin Tuesday, March 19, rather than Monday, March 18. 
Burtchaell's action comes two days after The Observer proposed the one-day addition in its Monday editorial. 
The original calendar called for 
a midsemester break ending 
March 18, necessitating the return 
of students by Sunday night, 
March 17. 
"Several students pointed out 
that the Sunday travel posed a 
definite problem so we changed 
it," Fr. Burtchaell explained. 
Fr. Burtchaell also pointed out 
that the deletion of this calss day 
from the calendar will not result in 
the addition of an extra class day 
at another point in the schedule. 
"We have more class days in the 
Spring semester than in the Fall 
semester and this makes this 
revision a bit easier," Fr. Burt­
cha'ell explained. 
Director of Information Services 
Richard Conklin noted, "The 
Administration is very concerned 
with the way students travel back 
and forth between home and 
school." 
"Students from the West Coast 
usually have to fly and students 
from the East generally drive," he 
observed. 
"With the present situation, it is 
impossible to buy gas on Sunday so 
a Sunday travel date is now 
unacceptable," Conklin added. 


the observ~ Thursday, January 31, 1"74• 


warld 

briefs 
Wa!>hington--The House Judiciary Committee me~ts to~ay ~or its first public session since it was charged with the mvestlgatwn of P1·esident Nixon's impeachment. 
La Pax, Bolivia--The government of Gen. Hugo Banzer sent in troops, arr.1ored cars and jet fighters in an attempt to break up a peasant uprising. 
London-The nation's 269,000 coal miners voted today on whether to launch a nationwide strike that could turn Britain's economic crisis into a disaster. 
Baltimort>An engineering firm official testified he paid $40,000 in kickbacks to Spiro T. Agnew while Agnew was Baltimore county executive, governor of Maryland and vice president. 
3 pm lecture"josephus' defense of judaism in the greco-roman world" by I. h. feldman, library lounge, free 
7 pm lecture poetry: "parody in the medieval period" by ruth hoffman, stapleton lounge, free 
7:30pm seminar I. h. feldman, libray lounge, free 
B pm basketball vs. de paul, ace 
B: 30 pm meeting charismatic prayer meeting, holy cross hall, free 
Reactions to Nixon speech mixed 
By D0:'\1 PHILLIPS 
WASHINGTON (UPI) Republicans initially appeared pleased, almost relieved, with President Nixon's State of the Union r.>essage. 
Democrats were predictably critical, although some of Nixon's severest Democratic critics did not lash out at the President as strongly as they have in the past. 
Senate Republican Leader Hugh Scott said the speech Wednesday night was "com­plete, comprehensive, and a constructive challenge to Con­gress." 
Sen. Charles Percy, R-Ill., said it was "one of the best 
speeches  I've ever  heard  him  
Pake."  
Percy  said  he  welcomed  

Nixon's offer to cooperate with the House Judiciary Commit­lee, adding, "I think it was encouraging that the President reached out." 
The two men can be regarded as a good barometer of the reaction to Nixon's initiatives by moderate Republicans, the r.>en Nixon must have if he is to successfully overcome im­peachment. efforts and push his pmgrams through Congress. 
Initial Democratic reation 1·anged from critical to guar­ded. 
Sen. Sam Ervin, D-N.C., chairman of the Watergate Comr.1ittee, said "the Water­12ate affair would have been ;,ver long ago if the President had been wi !ling to let the committee have the evidence in his possession relevant to the investigation." 

House Democratic leader Thomas P O'Neill of Massa­chusetts said, "I think it's a sad comr.,entary on our country when a President of the United Stales in his State of the Union Pessage must plead to the public like he did tonight." 
Rep. Robert Drinan, D-Mass., a r.1ember of the Judiciary Comr.1ittee who introduced the first impeachment resolution in the House last year, said that following the speech, Demo­crats were "solidly against him here. The Democrats are really hostile now." 
However, a Republican mem-

Oil industry negotiates prices for tax advantage 
Documents released in Congress Wednesday show that the oil in­dustry negotiated artifically high prices with the Arabs in 1971 to take Paximum advantage of U.S. tax deductions. 
The documents, a series of cables between tax experts in New York and a so-called "London Policy Group" of major oil firms, were distributed during the first day of a six-week hearing by a Srnate Foreign Relations sub­cor.'r.'ittee. 
The subcomr.1ittee, chaired by Sen. Frank Church, D. -Idaho, is investigating why the U.S. ~overnment sanctioned oil com­pany cartels and supported them with a variety of tax benefits. 
The cables indicated that the oil cartel negotiated a posted price perbarrel of oii, for higher than the amount actually paid, per­r.,itting high "lax" payments to the Arabs which could be deduc­ted, dollar-for-dollar, from the companies' U.S. tax returns.· 
"The artificiality of this system is obvious and well known, but has 
not been challenged by the  
Internal  Revenue  Service,"  the  
New York tax group said in  one  
cable.  

The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, lnd i ana 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Had the expenses been counted as royalties rather than taxes, they would have been a business ex­pense and worth only half the U.S. 
lax deduction. Expert witnesses told the sub­committee the artificially high "tax" payments reduced U.S. tax iiabiiities on oil company profits from foreign operations to vir­tuaily zero. They said lhe tax advantage caused the oil companies to expand 
foreign operations rather than increase domestic production,r.1aking the nation more dependent her of the Judiciary Committee, Rep. Charles Wiggins, R-Calif., said, "He came accross good in the public's eye. The President is further ahead now than when he started his speech." 

One of the few discordant GOP voices came from Sen. Edward M. Brooke, R··Mass., who said Nixon qualified his remarks that he would cooper­ate with the Judiciary Commit­lee. 
"I was hoping he would say he would cooperate fully," Brooke said. Brooke has called for Nixon's resignation, and he said he saw nothing in the speech to r.1ake him change his 
1~1ind. 
Sens. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., and George McGo­vern, D-S.D., two of Nixon's sternest critics, were relatively Pild in their reaction to the speech. 
"What we didn't have in the speech was a commitment to good health," Kennedy said. "There is nothing, really, in the President's program that says there's going to be a doctor at the other end of the phone when a r.1other calls with a sick child." 
Kennedy and Nixon long have been at odds over health care IIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Night Editor: Bill Brink 
Asst. Night Editors: Mike 
Kulcycki, Dan Sanchez 
Layout: Joel Burian, Dean Janke, 

Andy Praschak, Maria Gallagher 
Ginny Faust 
Day Editors: Tom Bundy, Pattie 

Cooney 
Copy Editor: Terry Keeney 

Typists: Mary Romer, Barb 
Norcross, Barb Haug, . Tom 

Modglin, John Flannigan 
Compugraphic: Joe Abell 
Pictures: J.M. Phillips 

Sports: Greg Corgan, Peggy 
Lawlor, Vic Dorr 
Night Controller: Phil Orscheln 
on foreign fuels. <UP_I_>_1_11_111_11_111_11_111_11_111_11_111_11_111_11_111_11_111_11_111_11_111_11_111_11,11111 
We welcome all hairy __;~-;.~_0~M~.
· problems!
/ J;J.&I The four expert 
f stylists at the Windjammer are ready to help you with any hair problem you may have. It it's sick, damaged or oily, we have the cure-­
Hairstyling for discriminating men. 




Uhe WitWjammer 
All services by appt.--no waiting 

1637 Lincoln Wov W. 


iegislalion. 
weii," but he did not come to 
McGovern, Nixon's Demo­
grips with the issues, "includ­
cratic opponent in 1972, said 
ing the crisis in the presidency
Nixon spoke "forcefully and its~ if." 
ND-SMC THEATRE announces 


TRYOUTS 
for THE BEGGAR'S OPERA by JOHN GAY 

SUN, FEB. 3 lpm MON, FEB. 4, 7:30pm 
Callbacks: Wed, Feb. 6, 7:30pm 
O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC 
Material for singing and acting auditions available Speech & Drama Office Rm. 109 Moreau. 
Open to all ND-SMC students. 
...gone from the charts, but not from your hearts... 



Oldies Night TONIGHT 

All your favorites played for free on our Super Quad system 
Also introducing the world famous 
26 oz. 


BENDER 

The Library's answer to Pat O'Brien's 
Special Tonight--$1 00 

''. 
... 
' 
.. 



____________..,. 
Thursday•. Januarv 31.-J974 the .observer 
3 
Graduate studies: research and instruction 
by Mike Kulczycki Staff Reporter 

This is the fifth in a series of articles by the Observer examining in depth each area considered by the Committee on University Priorities. 
Today's article considers the role of graduate studies and its relation to undergraduate programs. 
Since its establishment in 1932, the Graduate School has played an increasingly important role in consolidating Notre Dame's im­portance from an excellent liberal arts and sciences college to an excellent university. The Graduate School rounds out the primary functions of the university as instruction, scholarship and research. 
The real explosiion in the graduate field occurred in the fifties and sixties, so by 1969, it was clear that the growth period had ended. With the formation of the Committee on University Priorities (COUP), and the sub­sequent creation of the Task Force on Research and Instruction on October 16, 1972, it was also clear that graduate instruction and research programs were most likely to be questioned in a period of financial stringency. 
As the Task Force saw its duties: 
"It is the place of graduate in­struction and research in a university and their relation to undergraduate instruction that, properly or not, are most in need of explication and justification at such a time." 
Ten members of the Task Force 
on Research and Instruction met in 
twenty meetings until April 13, 
1973, with each member respon­
sible for the research and drafting 
of one section of the report. Task 
Force Chairman Fr. Ernan 
McMullin completed the final 
editing of the report. Besides the 
submitted report , the Task Force 
also made available, "A great deal 
of helpful supplementary material 
on which the COUP may wish to 
draw when discussion of the report 
begins," stated the Task Force 
report. 

Fruitful learning experience 
If the Task Force Report em­
phasized the clear need for con­
tinuation of graduate instruction 
and research programs, the Ad­
vanced Studies section of the 
COUP report, though generally 
reflecting this feeling, failed to 
establish clear and hard guidelines 
for Notre Dame's continuation as 
an excellent university. This is the 
general opinion received from 
various members of the Task 
Force who were not members of 
the COUP report. 

One of the significant reactions 
of various Task Force Research 
and Instruction members was not related to the five recom­mendations contained in the Ad­vanced Studies section of the COUP report. Sociology professor Arthur Rubel said the Task Force was a fruitful learning experience, "A rare chance for an individual faculty member to learn about the internal workings and dynamics of a vast institution like this." 
A May 4, 1973 letter from Fr. McMullin, Task Force chairman, to the contributors of the report, expresses a similar reaction; "But in retrospect, I feel that the main accomplishment of our group may have been what we ourselves learnt from the long and lively discussions," McMullin wrote. "I think we can all say that we un­derstand the workings of our university a great deal better than we did last fall, and that in any future deliberations on matter of university welfare in which we take part, we should be able to put that understanding to good use." 
Vniversity not a college 
Although research was covered in Teaching and Research section of the COUP report, various members of the Task Force ad­dressed comments to research as it affects the nature of graduate programs. Task Force member Rubel stressed, "The University must find some way to retain good quality graduate training and research." 
Kenneth Jameson, assistant professor of economics, recognized the problem of research in a dif­ferent light. Jameson, "The future of Notre Dame is now. We should strengthen our strengths now, rather than look to the future." 
Author of Task Force section "The Place of Research in the University", Robert Hentz, is concerned with "tbe justification of research at an institution that calls itself a university and not a liberal arts college." 
Hentz's section of the Task Force on Research and Instruction states: "Notre Dame, then, must decide what kind of institution it can afford to be and weighing the expected financial constraints, what kind of institution it wants to be. There are really only two alternatives, other than mediocrity, open to us. The choice is between consolidation of our position as a university that has already achieved some degree of excellence in both our un­dergraduate and graduate schools or retrenchment to the status of an excellent liberal arts college. The choice is not between excellence in research and graduate programs on the one hand, and excellence in undergraduate instruction on the other." 
Hentz, who is Faculty Fellow in the Radiation Laboratory, evaluated the COUP report con­cern with research as it affects advanced studies, "This concern was expressed overall through the report about what we expected." 

IMPORTANT MEETING 
for all those who worked on An Tostal last year 
Thursday Night 


7:30 Dillon Chapel for informatiof1! c lt':Wally 1582 
~ '" •, r f ., 1 # t ' • .l ~ "' .1 .1 
No fireworks in graduate council 
Evaluation of the Advanced Studies section of the COUP report by various members of the Task Force and representatives to the Graduate Council generally did not evoke strong reactions. Chairman of History, Philip Gleason, also a representative to the Graduate Council, said, "I don't see anything in these recommendations that are going to set off fireworks in the Graduate Council." 
Fr. Paul Beichner, English professor and Task Force mem­ber, expressed his view of the Advanced Studies recom­mendations: "People try to cover the waterfront. The report wants to see good things broadened and the weaknesses brought to the light of people. If then the weaknesses can be corrected, fine." 
"A lot of these things in this report are really kind of housekeeping efforts," Beichner added. He felt "somehow or another" the COUP report managed to perform this housekeeping. 
Professor of Aerospace ana Mechanical Engineering Jerome Novotny may have summed up a general feeling of the Task Force members when he said, "A lot of us had personal feelings about some of the matters, but these were not intended to be expressed in the report." Rubel expressed an important consideration by pointing out the COUP report has not actual weight until its approval by the Board of Trustees. 
High expectations 
Jameson evaluated the Ad­
vanced Studies section by con­
sidering both its strong and weak 
points. He cited more information, 
better evaluation of various ef­
forts, and some initial steps in 
terms of direction as strong points. 
But Jameson saw the failure of the 
report in not providing 
mechanisms to "begin to develop 
the process to lead us to make 
decisions." He said he would be 
happier with the report if there 
were some suggestion of orien­
tation towards the "hard choices." 


Athletic and




NOTRE DAME 

Convocation Center 
Ticket Prices: Tickets on sale: Bleachers ---. -.-.--$3.50 NOTRE DAME, A. C. C. Mon. -Sat. 9 to 5 Lower Arena---.----$4.50 Robertson's South Bend & Concord Mall Main Fllor -----.-•. -$5.50 Sl Joseph Bank -and branche• Loge ---.-------. --$5.50 First Bank -Main office only
Platform -_.-_______ $5.50 Elkhart Truth 
FOR MAIL ORDER: State number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. J. Geils·Band. Send to J. Geils Band Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Enclose self­addressect stamped envelope. 

William Lavage, graduate student representative to the Graduate Council, said, "Overall it is a great report, when one con­siders the breadth and scope of the areas covered." Lavage viewed the key to the success of the COUP report as the implementation of a 
iot of the reconimendations. He said he was "anxious to see the 
additional task forces which were recommended in the report to be formed." 
Perhaps Jameson best ex­pressed the feelings of many of the Task Force members when he acknowledged the value in the COUP report but mentioned, "Maybe m:'t expectations were too high." 

• 


0 CV) WEEKEND 
u ....I .,::» c 

Conducted by four Maryknoll Missioners 
I 
SIMULATION GAMES

c .:a• • 
DESIGNS AND FILMS
.... ·-...

w WEEKEND SESSION TO SURFACE ISSSUES &
LL. PROBLEMS OF ASIA, AFRICA AND LATIN AMERICA 
'. LL.
.o ...


' . . in Libr.ary; FE E--$5). 

---~-~~. 
the observer Thursday, January 31, 1974 

Dear S!udcnt Body: one hundred sit-ups, another very useful r.1ethod. 
There has been a great deal of talk lately con­A)..•ain, if he had any brains, he woulcll have cerning Ihe incident at Dillon Hall last semester. realized that his hand has several functions. But Let r.1e begin by saying that he got exactly what he don't !-'.et Pe w1 ong; I 1·ealize that this would be a dese1·ved. I wiii I ell why I feel this way, but not 1e1Tible sin against the flesh also, but nonetheless it 
befo1·e I briefly go over the pertinent facts for the is a slep below actual sexual intercourse. Just the benefit of those who r.1ight not have heard or read 1hought of lwo unr.1a1Tied individuals engaging in about 1he incident. prenarital sex r.1akes Pe shudder. What could be Late .ast ser.,ester Fr. BurtchaeU encountered a r.1ore unnatural, Pore disgusting, r.Jore 
D1i.on Hall resident and his female companion in a sac1·ilegious, r.1ore un-Christian, r.10re degrading, stairwell in Diilon Hail .. Imr.1ediately realizing the Pore inhur.,an? Who would think that a Notre Ir.'p•ications of this sight, Rev. Burtchaell thought it Dar.1p student would stoop to such depths? I'll bet 
Pi!!hl be a !'Ood idea to look into the r.1atter. Sub­Rockne would I urn over in his g1·ave if he could hear sequently he entered the locked 1·oom of the resident ~>f this! 
and viewed what r.1ust have been the most 
What we r.1ust realize is that Notre Dame is a disgusting sight of his life-a parietal violation and unique coPr.,unity, which r.1ust at ali costs preserve unquestionable evidence of a violation of the its sixteenth-century r.1onastery image, so as to 
university's stand on human sexuality. The student ·ePain an exar.1ple of the infinite wisdom of the was suspended for one semester. orthodox Catholic way of thinking for the entire Now r.1any overiiberal jerks r.1ight think that the world. For all of you greedy, selfish people who student was treated unfairly, and that the univer­!reasure your individuality r.10re than the r.10ral sity should r.1ind its own business when it comes to 
integrity of lhe cor.Jr.,unity, let r.1e just say that such personal r.1atters. But I feel just the opposite. individuality sacrificed for the sake of providing an In fact I he university was too lenient if you ask me. Pxar.1pie of Poraiity for the entire world is in­
Do any of us realize the implications of such acts if dividuality well spent. Just imagine, thirty years !hey )!o unchecked? Why, if everyone on this fror.1 now you wili be able to look back on your four t·ar.lpus were to sleep together whenever they feel years of sexual abstention at Notre Dame and say to 
.ike it, we would all be sexually satisfied; there yourself "I did Py part to preserve the moral wPuld be no sexual frustration-no constant tension­character of lhe world." I think it is worth the hy which we could recognize and distinguish the frustration. \·irtuous souls who have the self control to abstain I think that I have sensibly argued in favor of the 
froP such heinous sins of passion. university's handling of the so-called "Dillon Hall Apart fror.1 this consideration, I feel that the Incident". I think I have accurately portray,ed the student in question had a number of options open to university's reasoning in r.1atters concerning 
hir.1 which. had he used his fat head, would have iiiegitiPate sexual activity, for PY reasoning runs i1revented hiP fror., entering into sinful activity parallel lo theirs. with his ioose cor.1panion. For one, he could have Good luck for a clean, wholesome, sex-free 1aken a coid shower. This Pethod has proven very 
Yours in chastity,dfecl ive for r.1e in the past. Or he could have done Byron R. King 

::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:::::::::~:~:~:~:::~:~:::::::::::::::::::;:::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~~:.-:-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
and why, and you see the players game, when you are told by the
A Manager's as the people they really are. coaches that you were as much a 
There is a certain TV com-part of the victory over Southern

Experience r.1ercial in which the actor says Cal as the players were, when you 
that what America needs is a sit behind Coach Phelps at the 
I would just like to say a few rebirth of self-respect in its UCLA game, when you receive words to the freshmen about the citizens. I agree 100 per cent with that blue sweater with "77" in Student Managers Organization at that statement. I also agree with gold, you are filled with a pride you I':otre Dame. Now I know many of the social psychologists who say thought was only possible in a Pat 1he freshmen were managers in that if your views do not change O'Brien movie. high school, so managing is really during your college years, they Now don't feel that by joining the nothing new. But I think the N.D. never will. That is why I believe organization this second semester \lanagers are an organization college is a good time to learn to you will be behind the other fresh­\\'!ll'th Pentioning, since I am a take pride in what you do, and r.,en who started in the fall, for, as r1anager. through managing you can develop we work with all sports, there are a 
Now that you have completed a sense of pride in your work. lot of sports that are only now vour first semester here at Notre Managing is very hard work, plus getting under way. And don't feel bame, you are probably looking you have to work with people, the that you have to have been a for something to do on campus, to nost unpredictable machine Panager in high school in order to become part of the Notre Dame known. So managing is not only become one here. If you are at all scene. To limit your activities here brute force, carrying practice interested in managing, call the to the classroom, to spend the rest dummies across the field. It is a Managers Office at 6482, or contact of the time hybernating in your job that requires a man who can r.'e, Steve Euvino, 8793, 131 St. room, is a cruel and unfortunate use his head and knows how to Ed's, or come to the special waste of four years. A great part handle the managers under him. Peeling on Monday, February 4, of your education here comes from LiketheMarines,Isupposeweare at 7:00p.m. in the ACC working with people, and learning looking for a few good men too, Auditorium. Believe me, being a how to deal with them. As a except that we do not have any manager at Notre Dame is a lot of student manager, you work along Phantom jets. But believe me, fun, and the experiences are un­side some of the most popular and when you see the football team forgettable. Thank you. talked-about people "in college coming out of that funnel in shiny, sports today. You get an inside star-studded helmets and im­Respectfully yours, look at the .plays the coaches use naculate uniforms for every Steve Euvino 
Dpinian The Calendar Blues 
Thamas A. Pearsan· 
Dear Sirs: One day last week with usual fervor, I chanced upon a stray Observer. Sweet fortune. 
Known for news that it presents, <Though oft' mispelling world events.) I consulted it. 
"What news," asked I, "of Crimson Tides?" "Of Griffin, Doonesbury, classifieds?" 
"Trusted reader, sit thee down," "For news I have gives cause to frown." 
For all the years that I remember, School had started in September. So I believed. 
While summer work and nights of mirth, Had given way to school year's birth--after a day of Labor. 
But now the shadow of the Dome, Becomes, for part of summer, home. 
Returning as I hoped to be, An early start was planned for me. By some august body. 
"Herald," cried I, "whence came this news," "What moved our leaders this path to choose." 
"Are we by our fair school forsaken?" For this news had me quickly shaken. And others also. 
"Calm yourself," my herald said. "Consider all the good instead." I duly pondered. 
When, of a sudden, the answers came, My early fears were put to shame. 
For by this shift of sun and stars, I'd gain a week in South Bend's bars. 
This calendar would prove no sham, I'd spend more time in General Program. Another Great Book. 
And though they must have overlooked, The joy of meals that were home-cooked. 
They planned to serve a better manna, In dining halls of Indiana. 
I even smelled an odor sweet, Of classes held in summer's heat. Despite the loss in summer wages, I'd gain some time to turn the pages. 
But though these points I long considered, I realized all the time I'd frittered. 
The good I'd seen from long inspection, Was overruled by one objection: 
Though extra time here I'd adore, I have a mother thatl'll miss more. 
Yours very sincerely, Thomas A. Pearson 

daanesbury raarry l;rudeau 
r---------------~ 



,~----------­
Thursday, January 31, 1974 the observer 
5 

! 
Scott pressures Nixon for tapes 


Washington <UPI> -The White House said Wednesday President Nixon will cite constitutional privilege and respectfully refuse to appear at the Ellsberg burglary \rial-but it left open the possibility 
Nixon  r.1ight  provide  written  
testimony.  
At  the  same  time,  Senate  

Republican Leader Hugh Scott -a defender of Nixon in Watergate Patters -put new pressure on the President to release secret Watergate tapes and cooperate with the House impeachment inquiry. 
"I'll be God-damned if I'll be a patsy for anyone," Scott said. White House spokesman Gerald L. Warren briefly outlined the strategy Nixon's lawyers will take when they get the California state court subpoena ordering the 
Legal aid bill opponents silenced 
Liberals block 
required two-tnirds majority.
By Mike Feinsilber Even a few southerners-Georgia's 

Herman Talmadge and Sam Nunn, 
Washington<UP!}-The Senate South Carolina's Ernest F. af!,reed to limit its debate fot· only Hollings and Texas' ' Lloyd M. the 15th time in its history Wed­Bentsen, all Democrats-voted to nesday, voting to silence opponents head off a threatened filibuster, of a bi!l to establish legal services the traditional weapon of the for the poor as an independent South. agency. The vote seemed to assure ap­
The vote to involve cloture was proval for a compromise bill, 68 to 29, three more than the supported by the administration 
Soviets blockPanov eJnigration 
LENINGRAD <UPD -Ballet dancer Valery Panov says he has been told Soviet authorities r.>ay jail him on trumped-up charges to prevent him from emigrating to Israel with his ballerina wife. 
Panov said in an interview at his r.1odest two-room Leningrad apartment Monday that he 
Protestant killed 
his mother-in-law about it but she has disappeared from her

Irish rioting erupts 
home town of Volkhov near 

By FRANK JOHNSON 
BELFAST <UPI> -A gun­r.1an shot and killed a Protestant as he answered the door of his home Wednesday, a part-time policeman died of gunshot wounds and Roman Catholics rioted in the town of Newry, breaking windows and setting fire to a store and a government office. 
The disturbances Wednesday night broke out after a protest r.>arch demanding that two sisters imprisoned in England be transferred to a Belfast jail. 
Debaters on top 
The Notre Dame Debate Team of 
Dave Hayes and Jeff Rajchel 
placed among the top eight teams 
at an intercollegiate tournament 
last weekend at Loyola University 
in Chicago. 
Hayes and Rajchel, both juniors, defeated such schools as Wisconsin, Washington and Jef­ferson and Loyola before losing to Southern California in the quar­terfinal round. 
Hayes, president of the ND 
Debate Society, was honored as the 
tenth best speaker in the tour­
nament. 
Future plans for the team in­
clude trips to tournaments in 
Boston, New York and Charleston, 
South Carolina.' 1 ­President to testify at the burglary trial of three former subordinates. 
"They tell me they will recommend that he respectfully decline to appear on constitutional grounds," Warren said. He made it plain to newsmen Nixon would fo!low his iawyers' advice. 
Warren said questions of whether the President might provide written testimony for the hearing and possibly the trial of John D. Ehrlichmen, G. Gordon Liddy and David Young would be taken up as they arise. 
In a decision unprecedented for a state court, Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Gordon Ringer an­nounced Tuesday he would sign an 1irder for Nixon to appear at the Feb. 25 pretrial hearing and the trial sceduled for April 15. 
Ringer said Wednesday he would 
continues to hope "common · Panov, 35, is a Jew. His wife sense" will prevail and that he Galina, 24, is not. Both are wili be allowed to leave with former stars of the Kirov ballet his wife. company of Leningrad but have 
"We live on hope alone, not been allowed to work for which is nourished by the the past two years since they efforts of our remarkable began asking permission to friends in the West and by emigrate. Soviet authorities world public opinion," he said. have allowed Panov to go but "We hope that God may grant without his wife. wisdom to our tormentors." The Soviets say Mrs. Panov's 
r.10ther objects to her daughter 
leaving the country. Panov, 
however, said he tried to talk to 

In the Irish Republic, Irish Leningrad. Republican Army <IRA) sup­Two KGB secret police porters earlier used hijacked agents were outside the apart­buses and bomb scares to snarl r.1ent building during the traffic in Dublin in a similar inte1'view. They made no protest. attempt to interfere but one of 
Police said the Newry rioters . them went to make a phone clashed several times with call after the interview and the policemen and soldiers before other followed this reporter for dispersing. several blocks. 
** *NOTICE * 
Applications now being taken for the position o1F The Observer Editor -in· chief. Submit all resumes to Jerry Lutkus at The Observer office no later than Moq,day, Feb. 4, 4:00pm. 
delay signing the subpoena until next week, wanting to make certain it is the proper form. 
Erlichman, Liddy and Young face charges of burglary and conspiracy in .connection with the burglary bya White House "plumbers" unit at the office of Daniel Eilsberg's psychiatrist. Ehrlichman wants Nixon to sup­port his contention he was acting as a federal law enforcement of­ficial at the time and should not be prosecuted. 
Scott told reporters he still believes Nixon could exonerate himself of Pany Watergate a !legations if he made public some still secret recordings of con­versations with former White House Counsel John Dean. 
"I have made further demands to the White House for additional 

conservative filibuster 
and by liberals, to put the program of free legal advice and service to the poor on a permanent footing. 
The bill would establish a cor­poration to run the program, with its 11 directors named by the president. The program is now threatened by the administration's desit·e to phase out the Office of Economic Opportunity, OEO, which oversees it. 
Supporters believe the young information" on the tapes, Scott said, adding he also expected Nixon to respond to "all relevant inquiries" from the House Judiciary committee in its im­peachment inquiry. Nixon has said he will "fight like hell" against impeachment. 

"If the rug is pulled out from under r.1e, I will hae something to say later," Scott told newsmen. "I"ll be God-Damned if I'll be a patsy for anyone," he said, then repeated. 
Sen. Edward W. Brooke, R-' Mass., told CBS-TV interviewers that if Nixon has the exonerating information Scott says he has, the Pt·esident "has performed a great injustice to the Americaan people by not having divulged that in­formation, and I think the same thing should apply to Sen. Scott." 
ambitious lawyers who have worked for legal services have won significant gains for the poor, settling both their personal disputes and their grievances against the government. A legal services case ied to the Supreme Court decision overturning state welfare residency requiements. 
Opponents contended the legal services laywers engaged in political activity at government­supported agency sue'ing the government. 
Shortly after the vote, Sen. Carl 
T. Curtis, R-Neb., told the Senate that legal services lawyers often used the agency to "advance their political theories, oppose the established government and fight for reforms that fit in with the political philosophy of particular 
Brooke said he thinks Nixon would resign if impeachment became a real prospect, "even though he has used such strong language about not resigning."· 
In  other  Watergate  develop­ 
ments:  
-Former White House  Chief of  

Staff H.R. Haldeman made another appearance before the Watergate grand jury, which was believed to have called him back for more questioning about Nixon's Watergate tapes. Haldeman told reporters he is not engaged in plea bargaining but declined to say whether he has discussed the case with Nixon recently. 
-Attorney General William B. Saxbe said the Justice Department is working to keep President' Nixon from being subpoenaed "by every court in the country." 
Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., another opponent, has charged the agency would "contribute to social disruption and serve to encourage would-be rioters." 
Two previous attempts to invoke cloture were defeated last December. An earlier version of the bill was vetoed by President Nixon. 
The House already has passed a bill to give legal services a per­r.1anent structure. The House bill would prohibit legal services lawyers from pressing abortion, busing m· desegregation suits. 
After the cloture vote, the Senate adopted an amendment by voice vote to prohibit legal services iawyers from filing cases against hospitals which refuse to perform abortions except when the 
* * 
6 

the observer Thursday, January 31, 1974 
Writing a dictionary 
•

The work of the authors IS never done 
bf Ken Girouard Staff Reporter 
One of the most fascinating aspects of the English language is the vastness of its vocabulary. If one wanted to know the r.1eaning of words such as "draggle" or "r.,acula", he would most likely have to consult a dictiona1y where the entire scope of the language is presented. Each year the English language· changes and over 100 new words are added to dictionary word iistings. Ail of this leads to an interesting question: How do all the words get into the dictionary? 
Nearly all the major publishers of dictionaries begin by employing a ia rge network of so-called "accumulators." According to representatives from the Randon1 House and World Book En­cyclopedia Dictionaries, the "accumulators" have the job of observing, iistening, and seeking out new words or word usages. Spread out all over the world, they read newspapers, periodicals., and trade magazines, as well as watch television and listen to the people in the street. 
These accumulators, however are not fuli-time employees. Most of them do this work as a hobby or pastime. As a result, there is no true consistency in the flow of new words into the publisher's office for the compiling of the dictionary. For example, during the summer r.1onths the amount of information received is much greater due to the increased amount of leisure time that the accumulators have. 
When an accumulator finds consistency in the usage of a word, he will then proceed to make out a "citation." A citation is simply a card which is filled with in­formation about the word. On this card is recorded the new word or usage and a list of where and how frequently the word appeared. He will list several sentences with the word as it is used, and will then put down a definition of the word. He then sends the citation to the next phase of operation: the iexicographer. 
At the World Book Encyclopedia Dictionary the lexicographer decides what words will go into the 

On transit support 
Nixon proposes new-policy 
WASHINGTON <UPI) President Nixon, in a total reversal of previous adminis­tration policy, said Wednesday he would ask Congress to make federal funds available for 
operation  of  local  mass  transit  
systems.  
The  first-ever  use  of  federal  

funds for transit operation ­until now available only for capital costs such as purchase of buses -was part of two 
r.1ajor transportation bills ou­!lined by Nixon in his State of the Union message. 
The first would increase federal assistance to mass transit by nearly 50 per cent in the next fiscal year. 
The second would relax regulatory restraints on rail­roads and provide a $2 billion federal loan guarantee fund for railroad improvements. 
"The energy crisis has made urgent what once seemed only necessary: the building of a transportation system that per-r.1its all Americans to travel efficiently and at reasonable cost," Nixon said. 
He gave no exact figures for his p1·oposed transit aid in­crease. However, sources said the total wil.l mclude $1.1 billion from the Highway Trust Fund, r.1ade up largely of federal 
gasoline  taxes,  which  until  
recently  has  been  available  
only  for  highway  construction.  

Congress voted last year for the first time to allow cities to use a portion of their trust funds -$200 million next fiscal year and $800 million in fiscal 
1976 -for transit capital costs. A separate bill is pending to

Cancer legislation 
grant cities $400 million in 

Washington <UPil -HEW Secretary Casper W. Weinberger said Wednesday President Nixon will ask for $600 million for the "war on cancer" in his new budget, an $11 million increase in current spending. 
Weinberger· appearing before 
the Senate health subcommittee, 
opposed the $750 million cancer, 
authorization in a bill proposed by 
its chairman, Sen. Edward M. 
Kennedy, D-Mass. 

Instead , he asked the bill 
provide "such sums as may be 
Psych vote scheduled for tomorrow 
Undergraduate psychology Pajors will determine the voting student representative to the Psychology Department faculty. Junior Tom Arkwright and senior Mike Wilson, the two top vote­getters in the primary conducted Tuesday, are the candidates for the position. 
The position of student representative was created last semester by the Psychology Deapartment. The voting r('presentative joins the non-voting coordinator of the Psychology Society in an effort to improve n lations betwen students and fc.culty. 
Voting will be held from 11:15 
a.m. to 4 p.m. Friday in the Psychology Building. The exact area of voting will be indicated throughout the building. 
MEN !··WOMEN! 
JOBS ON SHIPS! No experience required. "Excellent pay. W<Jrldwide travel. Perfect sum· mer job or career. Send .$3.00 for information. SEAFAX, Dept. 6-F, 
P.0. Box 2049, Porl Angeles, Washington 98362. 
operating costs. Nixon said his necessary," allowing the ad-Pore flexible program would Pinistration to work out the final r.,ake this unnecessary. figure with Congress' ap-In addition, the Urban Mass propriations committees rather Transit Administration now than the legislative committee spends about $1 billion a year which oversees the cancer for mass transit capital costs. 
program. Until now, the administration 
Republicans and Democrats on has been strongly opposed to Kennedy's committee alike ob-any use of these funds for jected tQ that approach. operating costs. 
Kennedy's bill calls for Nixon's message did not authorizing $830 million in fiscal make clear the extent of his 1976 and $985 million in fiscal1977. eventual transit program, but As recently as fiscal 1970, thE administration sources said it government spent only $180 million was the beginning of a six-year, 
an er research. $16 billion fede~~ program.
~~~~~~~--------------------­
Acareer in law-­
without law school. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the six courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. . . 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Trammg , placed more than 500 graduates in law firms, banks and corporations in over 40 cities. 
If y~u are a student of ~ligh academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant, we'd like to meet you. · 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
THURSDAY,FEBRUARY14 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 Soulh 17th Street, Philadelphia. Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
AC 0035 

l-----------~-----------------.~~~+-~--~----TT~o-,,.'.I 
dictionary. It is his job to receive one hundred professors and all the citations and decide if the English experts to decide on the word is truly a new one. He must usage of many of the words in the also decide if the word and its English language today. r.1eaning are generally accepted Most of the publishers of the by society. For example, what dictionaries explain that in today's may be a new word or meaning in language, most new words come England, might be an old word or from the technological, scientific, cliche in the United States. After social and political fields. Words he decides on its authenticity, he such as Ms., chairperson, will then define the word and file it r.lUltination, laser, and amtrak all so that it may be added to the have recently been added to the dictionary. dictionary. They do note that 
The World Book lexicographer is r.1any of the slang expressions are 
a highly trained person in his field. combinations of old words, such as He must have not only a tremen­freak-out, or that they are simply dous knowledge of English, but new r.1eanings for old words. also a feel for which words are As the English language expands slang and which are formal, more and undergoes many changes, so technical terms. If there is a too must the dictionary which question in his mind, then he goes chronicles the language undergo a to a group of educators employed Petamorphosis. by the publisher. These educators This change must reflect the then make the decision as to the ways people speak. Who knows, best usage of the word. Last year, r.1aybe by 1976 the word "dic­for example, American Heritage tionary" itself may have a com­Dictionary assembled a panel of pletely different meaning! 
N.D. dance marathon set for muscular dystrophy 
Notre Dame Student Govern­explained that this year's dance r.,ent in conjunction with the South r,1arathon would need student Bend Muscular Dystrophy cooperation to make it successful. Association will hold its second "This year we hope to have a annual Dance Marathon on the better organization and a more weekend of March 22. successful Dance Marathon," said 
Student Body President Dennis Etienne. "In order to achieve this Etienne has announced that an goal we need student help and intercollegiate bike race and a cooperation." tricycle race are also in the An organizational meeting for planning stages. All events are the marathon will be held designed to raise money for February 7 in the amphitheater of r.1uscular dystrophy research and LaFortune. Gene Chisum of the programs. local Muscular Dystrophy chapter 
Etienne, in a letter to the will speak and present a short film presidents of the residence halls, about the disease. 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTF.RVIEioiS SCHEDULED FOR WF.F.K liF 
FFRRUARY 4 
Tntervit>W!I nrf' ror senior!! nnd fi\raduate studl.'nts. Sip;n~up schedules •He l.n Room 207, Hatn Butldtng, IntPTVIM-~ times musl br selected and stRnt>d for tn per!lon, Houn1 areo R:OO a.m. tu ';:00 p.m., Hondav thru Friday. The Placement Hanual RIVes 111dd1ttonal tnfonnation n•gl'lrdinR interview prncPdurr<>, 
FER. 4 Ayr-'olay Stores, Inc. B in AL And BA. Carnegio!-Hellon Univf'r8ttv. Grad, School of Ind. Admin. S,H in all discipltnes. Combustion Enslneerln&. Industrial Boller Operntlons. B in M.S., F.,E. Antl Ch.F.. Gillette Company. Prrsona 1 CAre Ct via ion. B in AL and BA. In land St ee 1 Companv. B In Acct. and F'in. B in Hl't., !>!.F.., Ch.E., M.E.I.n., F:.F.. MKA with 1-:nJ.tr. tUlden:rlld, df'r.. M<"' ion Bank. 
~ 
North Electric Co. R In F..f:. 
Frn. ') ANna Ll re 6o Casual tv • LHt• '•tvtc:lon. 8 in all dtsciplin('!l, GE'neral Mill:'!, Inc, R In AI.. 8,~1 In H.\. 
W. T. Grant Co • .-\11 BM, Owt'ns-Illlnois Inc, All Be,.\. Montgomery Elecator co. 8 in HRt. and Hkt. i-iBA with ~~t. and M\o:t. back~rounds. B in Arrh., F..F. ••1nd M.E. 
F"F.B.')/6 ford Hotor Co. Bin Acct. and Fin. B,H in A.E., F.n~r.Scl. And M.F., 
FF.B. 6 Aeronautical Systems Olviaion, H,M,D In F..E., M.E. Anrl A.F.. AmE'rlcan Fletcltl'r Nationlll Bank. 
B ln Acct., Fin.,, r-tk.t. M.M with Acct. ~nd fi(\, background !I. Pioneer Service 6o Engineering Co. B,M in H.F.. and E.E. 8,H,D in C.F.. Scot~ PAper Co. 
B,H In Al and M. 
gon. t., Weblltt>r En~;,r. Corp. B,M in C.F.., M.F.. and E.F.. 
FF.B, 7 ANna Life 6. Casualty -Group Div, ll in all disciplines. Horse Chatn-Divl!Jion fit Borg-Warner <:Orp. B in BA and EG. Otis t:levator Co. B,M in F..E. and M.E. Procter 6. Gamble Co. Plant Management; Product Dev.; R 6. D. B,M in Ch,E., H.F.., E.E., M.F..I.O., C.E. HM with Tech. undergraduate degree. Xerox Corporation, All de~rees and dhcipllnes. 
FE8.7/8 )H Company (Minnesota, Mining 6o Mfg.) B,H in Ch.E., E.E.,H.IL and H.E.I.O. B ln Acct. 
FEB. 8 J, E. Baker Co. Bin Ch.E., Het,, Mkt., Acct. IBM Corporation. B,H in all diaciplinu. Kiddrr I Peabody 6o Co. I Inc. 
HBA. National Steel. 8 ln E.E., H.E., H.E.I.O. B,H in Ch.E. and Het. 
U.S. Patent Office, 8 ln C.E., E.E. and Met, B,H in H. E. and Ch.E, 
Employer Information. A.lternativea. Teaching, Sunner. 
1/23/74 Ac.tion/reaee Corp•/Viata. Fedud Setvi.ce. 

L________________________________________________________________________________________ -­
·~----------~----~ -----~--­
7

Thursday, January 31, 1974 the ob'server 
Nixon cites successes, sets goals 
ministration -was interrupted material he needs" to complete cooperation of Congress and the Soviet Union; agricultural pros­
(continued from page 1) 
33 times by applause. Most of it his investigation. support of the American people, 
perity; and a national program 

was perfunctory and loudest "I believe the time has come we can and we will make 1974 a of clean air and water.Signaling his intention to from the Republican side of the to bring that investigation and year of unprecedented prosperi-
But Nixon saw energy and 

wage a determined political aisle. the other investigation of that 1y and peace," the President inflation as the nation's twofight over the issue, the Watching from first-row seats matter to an end," Nixon said. said. 
r.1ost serious problems in 1974.

President scathingly referred to in the gallery were Mrs. Nixon, Looking over the faces of the "I was elected to the office I He urged Congress to help
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy's their daughters Tricia and Julie congressmen and senators who hold and I was elected to do a "break the back of the energyalternative cradle-to-grave and their husbands, and the r.,ight sit as judge and jury in job," Nixon said. "I have no crisis."
health insurance plan as "the President's personal secretary, any impeachment proceedings intention of ever walking away He announced that because of wrong approach." Rose Mary Woods, a central against him, the President said from the job the people elected the disengagement of EgyptianWithout mentioning Ken-f·igure in the controversy over the House Judiciary Committee r.1e to do." 
and Israeli troops from thenedy's name, Nixon said his erasures on a Watergate tape. had a "special responsibility" Nixon said 1973-the year of Suez Canal, "I have been

proposal for a government­Julie · Eisenhower and Miss and that he would cooperate Watergate-was "not a very 
assured through my personal

financed coverage would cost Woods blinked back tears when "in any way I consider easy year for me personally, or 
contacts with friendly leaders

$80 billion to $100 billion a year the President mentioned Water­consistent with my duties in the for my family." He added that in the Middle Eastern area thatin tax funds and would put gate at the close of his speech. office of the President." 1974 "presents very great and an urgent meeting will behealth care "under the heavy "One year of Watergate is But, he said, "the time has serious problems" but also called in the immediate fu1urehand of government." enough," Nixon said, thrusting come for all of us to join great opportunities. 
to discuss the lifting of the oil

The President's tensely one hand in his pants pocket. together to devote our full At one point, Nixon declared embargo."
awaited speech-his first State He said he had provided energies" to the issues he that world peace was "the He called this "an encourag­of the Union message since Watergate Special Prosecutor raised in his speech. legacy I hope to \eave from my ing sign," but warned the ArabWatergate engulfed his ad-Leon Jaworski with "all the "With the help of God ... the eight years in the presidency." 
oil suppliers that "the UnitedRepublican legislators and States will not be coerced on

Wants Nixon's testimony Cabinet members leaped to this issue." their feet cheering vigorously, 
Nixon added: "If the embar­but nearly all the Democratic go is lifted, this will ease ther.1ajority remained seated. 

crisis, but it will not mean an

Judge preparing subpoenas 
The President began his 
end to the energy shortage inspeech extolling his past five America. Voluntary conserva­years' achievements, citing tion will continue to be 

LOS ANGELES <UPI) getting all those forms together breakin at the office o( Daniel peace in Vietnam and return of necessary."Supel'ior Court Judge Gordon in the proper way and making Eiisberg 's psychiatrist by the American prisoners; a halt in He praised Americans for Ringer wants to r.1ake sure his sure everything is just right," White House "plumbers" squad the crime rate; restored calm voluntarily conserving available subpoena on President Nixon is Fidler said. during the investigation of on college campuses and in the energy supplies.''just right" so he's taking his Ringer granted the subpoena Eiisberg for leaking the Penta­streets; reduced drug addic­"Let us do everything we can lime with it. t ion; the end of the draft;
at the request of lawyers for gon Papers. to avoid gasoline rationing," he Ringer is drawing up the first John Ehrlichman, the former The defendants maintained improved relations with the ~aid. 
state court subpoena ever for a top Nixon aide who was forced they were acting as federal president, and only the third by to resign in the Watergate police officers, and so cannot any court in the history of the scandaL Ehrlichman is await­be found guilty of burglary, but country. No president has ever ing trial here in April on they need Nixon's testimony to 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
been cor.1pelled by subpoena to charges of burglary, conspiracy back up their defense. 
NOTICES

L'ive personal testimony. and perjury for allegedly giving The judge agreed, noting that The judge does not plan to the orders that led to the according to Nixon's public 
2nd ANNUAL GSU SKI TRIP: .·verstufted chairs $3-SS . Free 5-10 pm Feb. 16. Swiss Valley. delivery to dorm Call Mrs.
sign the subpoena until some­Eilsberg burglary. statements, Nixon took respon­
$6 Half-rice for first 25 grad C1oper 272-3004 after 6 pm.
time next week, Ringer's clerk, He is charged, along with sibility for ordering the forma­
sign ups. availble P. Bolduc 
373 Ni uewland Science Hall. Wilson classic golf clubs , bag
Larry Fidler, told newsmen former White House aides G. tion of the plumbers and the 
,balls, and tees. Less than year G<)Od tix for the Friday Feb. 8 ,,td. Vest offer. 8428.
Wednesday. Gordon Liddy and David investigation of Ellsberg and 
"It is rather complicated Young. with resoonsibilitv for a put Ehrlichman in charge. 
performance of Grease at 
The White House said 

M,,rris Civic are now availble Panasonic Stereo cassette tape 
at the Student Union Ticket player. Call 3344. Office, 1-5 daily.
Wednesday that Nixon will 
"1·espectfully decline to appear

Marquette students 
FOIL BIKE THIEVES!! super­
on constitutional p·outJds," the 

L<>ndon Show tour: March 10-duper bike locks for sale. Judy 
18 $451 from SB; includes air, 4970. accomadations, tix. $100
separation of the executive and 
judicial powers. Attorney Gen­

deposit due Feb. 1. Call Sister Fender Bassman amp. 100
arrested in bravvl 
eral William Saxbe said he 

Jean Kiene or Clark Eide at watt RMS. Solid state 2 inputs.
"In the second-half, two students would fight the subpoena, on 
234-2098. good cond. $130 firm. Conrad­
bass guitar black nylon strings.

by Joe LaFiare attempted to go down near the the grounds that it would set a 
Sister Marita needs volunteers Bert 1604
S~aff Reporter court again. At this point, Sgt. bad precedent that would have 

for tt1e Primary Day School.
The Marquette-Notre Dame John Intenes tried to restrain future presidents at the mercy 
F,,r information call 7889. WANTED
basketball game Tuesday night them. He grabbed one of them by of subpoenas from judges 
Experienced typist will do Need girls to share atp near
produced more than just another· the belt, but lost his balance and throughout the country, down to 
'erm papers, manuscripts, etc. campus. $50 per 233-1175.
win for Notre Dame.A South Bend tumbled down the cement steps. "justices of the peace." 
Call 233-5332.
police officer was injured and two 
R,JOmmate wanted share house

This resulted in a severely bruised students from Marquette were 
A Lmg-Expected Party will be 4seniors. Call 232-7682 between
back, and he was carried out on a 
held in LaFortune today. 10:30 pm and 12 am. Need 1or
arrested. 
stretcher." 
Please come over and help us 2 'ix to Bob Dylan concert in
Capt. James R. Sweitzer of the As a result of this incident, the 
decorate the ballroom all day Ann Arbor this Sat. Call 6716.
South Bend Police Dept. offered 
'oday.
two students from Marquette were 
LOST AND FOUND

the following account of the in­
arrested and charged with 
Every Friday at 4:45 ·the
cident: "In the first half two disorderly conduct. They were to STARTS 
Greyhound goes from N D L.,st calss ring 74, topaz, TLS
students from Marquette were 
circle to Chicago. CaiiTom inside. O'Silag before finals.
be arraigned yesterday. 
B,Jyer 272-1807 for information. Reward. Tim 234-8092.
parading around the court with a Capt. Sweitzer praised the TOMORROW! 
banner which some N.D. students conduct of the Notre Dame student 
Gllod tix will be abailable at the L•>St class ring '74 It. blue
took away from them. A con­body and mentioned that the in­When will the 
door tonight at Morris Civic for stone, EFG. Reward. Ed 232­
frontation ensued, and the young 
'he Wishbone ash-Climax Blues 8122.
cidents which occured were a 
Band concert show. Begins at
killer strike again?

Pen from Marquette were result of unruly Marquette 
8. Accutron watch initials-JPJ 12­
directed back to their seats. 
students. 
25-72. Reward. Call 1579. Tonight at 11:45 at the ACC­1nterhall hockey; The Grace FOR RENT tower Gorillas vs. the ST. Ed's
Fischer's book describes 
Heads. Free Admission! I Furnished apt. for rnet 3 rooms 
plus bayh. $80 per nomth Do you know thtlt the Head utilities. C,>uple preferred. Start Program Is badly In need Call 259-0930 between 6 and 7 
uf student volunteers? Head pm. start prepares pre-school children from disadvantaged R<>oms for girls close to N D, 
Americans in Europe 
"Why Americans Retire because there they cluster 
homes to enter school on a !<ict1en privileges, seimming 
more equal footing with their P<'OI. $15 per week. After 6 pm, fortunate classmates. Head 272-3004. 
Abroad," a book by Professor together to form little worlds of 
Edward Fischer of the University their own. If they have no 
start will get ahead, given
of Notre Dame, had been ianguage barrier, as in Ireland and 
time-your time. Head Start 1975-75 school year. Beautiful
scheduled for a March release by in England, they blend into the 
also needs NO studnents. To house, nich neighborhood, 5 
volunteer call Mrs. Lucy BR. 234-5523. McCullough at Head Start-287­
Sheed and Ward publishers of New landscape and are difficult to find. 
York. F1scher is a professor in Notre 
6573. PERSONALS
The book includes face-to-face Dame's graduate program in interviews with many of the communication, arts and in the 
FOR SALE Kelly + Leach: Why are you 

so ugly? Get married with Petrie Ft 2 35 mm. FLR 
estimated 300,000 Americans who undergraduate program in 
Helen + Janet. toe Batman 
..

have pulled up roots late in life, American Studies. Other works of 
Camera with 200 mm. Lentar
forsaken the familiar ways and the author include "The Screen 
lens plus tow filters. ! !'/s'l!s?. 
Chere Monique:

34-'lls+'i's'i's&l/4.
conveniences of the United States, Arts " "Film as Insight " some 800 
Bon anniversaire! 

and retired abroad. To obtain magazine articles, ~nd eight 
tes amis,60 watt RMS KLH 

M.R. J.D., C.B. and K.P.

material for the book the author educational films. He has lectured 
receiver,$160; Garrard SL95B
made several trips to Italy, at the Salzburg Seminar in 
turntable complete,$125; 2 EPI Jean: 
100 loudspeakers $135; 1 EPI
Ireland, Greece, England, Por­American Studies in Austria, at the 
Hope youre fully back to 150 loudspeaker,$35; AKA! 

health. <)pen reel deck with sound on
tugal and Spain in recent years. University of Hawaii, the 
J.

Retired Americans, Fischer University of Ottawa, and at 
sound, Solenoid controls, 3
learned, are easiest to find in hundreds of schools inthis country 
motor, and auto reverse, $250. 
Call Kim at 234-2536 or 288-0950 after 5:30 pm. 
countries where they are un­since joining the Notre Dame 
familiar with the language faculty in 1947. 
---~~-~~~--....----~----~ ---~-~ ------------~------~·------------------­
8 the observer Thursday, January 31, 1974 
No rest in sight--DePaul tonight 
by John Higgins 20-3, and 20-3 records. Four years while forward Pancratz is not far .ater he went to DePaul and his behind at 9.2 ppg and 8.8 rebounds. 
It will be a head-to-head clash of rivalry with the Irish has been long F1·ontcourt mate and captain Mike 1he successful Old Guard and continuous, if not overly Gillespie (6-6) has equally im­challenging the ambitious New fruitfuL Meyer returns to South pressive statistics 05.4 ppg, 8.8 Breed on the sidelines tonight at Bend looking for his first win in rebounds a game). the ACC as the Irish entertain seven years and an overall 21-36 coach Ray Meyer and hisDe Paul slate versus Notre Dame. 
The talented DePaul guards

Biue Der.10ns. Notre Dame mentor 
counteract a lack of size with
Returning six lettermen and four Digger Phelps, just 32 and 

quickness, fine ballhandling, and
starters a 14-11

~enerally regarded as one of the from team last 
deadly outside shooting. Jim
season, DePaul opened this year's

finest young coaches to enter college basketball in some time, campaign slowly and without the Bocinsky (6-0) has more than 
doubled last year's scoring output
services of their two big men--Billhas rejuvenated the basketball 

to 14.9 ppg while Greg Boyd (5-8),
Robinzine (6-7) and Andy Pancratzprogram in his three years here 

whom Irish assistant coach and
(6-9)--who were suspended by theand !he Irish currently stand third 

scout Frank McLaughlin com­
NCAA just to season

m the national rankings after a prior the 
pares favorably to Marquette's
opener for participating in a non­

brief but enriching fiing at the 
Lloyd Walton, is hitting at a 14.1
sanctioned children's benefit

sur.1r.1it of the basketball 
clip and quarterbacks the offense.
tournament in Gary, Ind. Becausehierarchy. 
of this Meyer was forced to rely onMeyer, in contrast, 

his bench strength for the initial Coach Phelps has a great deal ofassuPed the head coaching duties 

ten outings. respect for DePaul and hisa 1the Chicago school the very year 

coaching rival, noting "DePaul is a

Phelps was born, and he now ranks DePaul (10-7) has improved 
well-coached team that plays

as the second winningest active 
tremendously since their rein­deliberate, pattern-stylecoach in the country with a won­statement and center Robinzine basketball." Digger adds that the

tOSt r.1ark of 488-291. 

has developed into the Demons' Blue Demons "will probably press ace with a 16.2 scoring average at times and use both man-to-man A Notre Dame graduate himself, coupled with a domineering 10.7 and zone defenses" as they try to 
l\leyer played three seasons for the 
1·ebounds per contest. The well­contain the potent Irish s..:oring

Irish, captaining the squad his last balanced, DePaul attack boasts 
attack. DePaul drives well and 

two years, as they soared to 23-2-1, 
four starters in double figures, likes to get the ball to its very strong front line, especially Robinzine, who will pair off

Ray DeLorenzi-one Hawk 
against Irish scoring (22.8 ppg) and rebounding (9.8 a game) leader John Shumate in the key

who is really flying 
Patchup of the night. DeLorenzi, a quiet reserved

by Jim Donathen young man around campus, makes An added feature to the already Phelps will open with the usual The Irish will be aiming to help
his presence known on the ice, as

Although the 1973-74 hockey colorful contest is the Wendell quintet of Dwight Clay and Brokaw 
evidenced by his speed and hard Digger show a little on-the-court 
season has been somewhat Sr.1ith Award, which will be at guards, Shumate at center, and disrespect for his elder, Rayhitting. He attributes part of his
disappointing for the Irish, one of presented to the game's out­Adrian Dantley and Gary Novak at Meyer, by exorcising the Demonsimproved performance to three
the bright spots has been right standing performer in a post-game the forwards. But the Irish fans 
from the friendly confines of theyears of experience.
wing Ray (Hawk) DeLorenzi. As ceremony. The honor is named in can be sure that freshman Billy ACC and sending them back to the"My liming is a little better this
leading scorer for Lefty Smith's Pemory of the country's best­Patemo will see considerable Windy City as victim number 14.
year," says Ray. "I've learned

skaters, DeLorenzi has racked up known biack sports journalist who action after his outstanding effort Tipoff is at 8 p.m. 
when to use my speed and when not 

a total of 16 goals and 23 assists. died in November, 1972, after a against Marquette. His 39 points rank him second to." widely-acclaimed career as the
The other key to his success has

among wings in the WCHA and pioneer for the black man's
been fellow linemen Pat Conroy

r.1ake Ray a definite All America emergence into professional 
Mike Gahagen--from the
and Larry Israelson. "At center,

Candidate. sports. Gary Brokaw, who scored
Pal gets the puck to me a lot.

Hailing from Sault Ste. Marie, 23 points in last year's 72-67 win at
Larry <at left wing) does a lot of 

Isle to the Fighting Irish 
Ontario, DeLorenzi has been on Alumni Hall, was the first
digging for the puck, especially in 

skates for almost his entire life. recipient of the award given to the
the corners. When I get the puck to "Track is a psychological thing. 
"My father put me on skates when MVP of each lrish-DePaul contest. by John Finf.'ran 
him in front of the net, he's The idea of r.1iddle distance races
I started to walk," laughs Ray. 
devastating." is to spread your energy out over
Notre Dame coaches aren't"You know, the kind with the 

Like the other members of the DePaul, which has played but iooking for to fill their the entire race. When I face dif­
Irishmen team, Ray is anxiously awaiting once in 12 days, a loss on Saturday athletic teams any more than, say, ficult coPpetition like we'li have
double runners." At the age of 
five, his career in organized 
the weekend series with North to Dayton, is well-rested and has Bowling Green coaches look for against Bowling Green andhockey began in the city leagues of 
Dakota. "It's a do-or.iJ.ie series for had ample time to prepare for the fa icons. If one comes their way, Michigan this week and later in thehis hometown. Eddie Bumbacco both clubs. We have to at least clash. The Irish on the other hand, fine, and Coach Don Faley is CCC, I like to go out and establishand Ray were teammates most of split this weekend. will be entering their eighth game pleased to have Mike Gahagan on r.1yself. I feel if I do this, if I start
the time from those early years "Lefty is concentrating on our in 19 days, having defeated out quickly and r.1ake the com­
his Fighting Irish track team.

until they played on the same line 
defensive coverage in our own petition come to me, it can psych
Marquette in a hard-fought Gahagan, a native of Madison,on the Junior A Greyhounds while 
zone. We've got to hit more in our r.1eeting less than 48 hours defore. Wis., was born in Limerick, them out."
in high school. 

Notre Dame's young hockey zone to avoid the loose pucks. When asked if the three-game-a­Ireland. But his Irish heritage is So far, that philosophy has paid"I know the team has been week pace may have his ballclub not weli-known to him because he
program and fine professional off. In his first race this month at
disappointing for some of our fans. exhausted and their play a bit was only a "wee lad" when he
school convinced DeLorenzi to join Bali State, after only two prac­
But, as far as we're concerned, the ragged as a result, Coach Phelps came to Ar.1erica.
Bumbacco and the Irish. "I tices, Gahagan placed third in an
fans at Notre Dame are number dismissed the notion quickly but "I was only one when I was
thought that a couple of Canadian 880-yard race. His other two races 
one. They've helped us get a few emphatically, saying "we're adopted," Gahagan says. "I
boys would complement the fine (an 880 versus Northwestern and
goals that have won a couple of winning!" haven't been back to Ireland since, 
Ar.1e1·ican talent Notre Dame was the Peel at Illinois) have been
close games. We all really ap­although my brother and I are
L'elling." easy victories. 
preciate it." SMC captures considering Paking a trip there Gahagan brought some im­when I graduate." 
pressive credentials to Notre 
Fortunately for Faley and the 

Dame from his high school days.first cage win Irish, Gahagan, only a junior, During his junior and senior years
won't Pake that trip for another 

at Madison's Edgewood High year. Faley sees this as an ad­School, he twice won the state
by Kathi Paterno 
vantage to Gahagan not only this 

championship one-mile run and year but next. 
placed second twice in the state
In a chilly Moreau Seminary 
"I would like to see Mike make cross-country.
yesterday afternoon, the St. 
the NCAA's this year to get the

Mary's cagers played a sizzling "Mike has not only -the physical, 
experience for next year," he says. 

game of basketball against Notre but r.1ental talent to do well in any 
However, Mike is thinking

Dame's Walsh hall. SMC handed race from the 440 to the mile,"
otherwise.

the Green Machine a 37-16 defeat in Faley says. "He's a leader who
"I don't think you can call it 

a game sparked with a touch of takes the initiative. And he is
cockiness," Mike says, "but rather

rivalry. It was a first victory for willing to convey his experiences
confidence in myself. My goal is to

the St. Mary's women, now 1-1. to our underclassmen."
break through the 2:10.0 mark for

Walsh is number two in the Because this year's captain,
the 1000-yard run and to win the

women's inter-hall competition at Marty Hill, is injured and cannot
Central Collegiates."

Notre Dame, with an overall run, Gahagan sees the leadership
That goal is not impossible to

record of 2-2. several in­
reach this season. Last Saturday falling to runners, 
cluding himself.
in a r.1eet at Illinois, Gahagan
Sharp shooting Mary Mitchell 

placed first in his specialty with a "I don't like to lead in an overt 
ied the victors with 18 points and 

2:12.0 clocking, a personal best. r.1anner; I am not the rah-rah 
Smith high

captain Sally was He needs only to run 2:10.9 to type," he says. " Rather I like to 
scorer for the Domers. 

qualify for the national cham­lead by example." "I like to 




pionships, and he will have every encourage others to do well. It's a
Both teams expressed a hope for 

opportunity to do that this season great feeling to watch your
a re-match and are sure the score 

because the CCC Indoor meet will teammates and your team do well. 
will be decidedly less lopsided than 

Ray "Hawk" Delorenzi remains a bright spot in a not-so-bright hockey St. Mary's will play Farley Hall which Gahagan feels will give him Irish is a two-way street when season. next Wednesday. the advantage over other racers. talking about Gahagan. 





