~----------------------~ 
On The Inside 
Bike storage ... p. 2 Right to life march 
... p. 3 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 62 Tuesday, January 22, 1974 

Lottery to decide off-campus students 
SLC opts for computer lottery 
by Patrick Hanifin Staff Reporter 
A campus-wide lottery to choose the students who will be forced off campus next year was announced at the SLC meeting yesterday. The council also received acknowledgement from Fr. Hesburgh for a letter it sent him recommending that the pre­Labor Day start be dropped. And a letter will be sent to Mr. and M1·s. John Wooden apoiogizing for the abuse they received at last Saturday's game. 
The lottery proposed by Fr. James Flanigan, vice-president of student affairs, and Fr. John Mulcahy, director of campus housing, calls for a computer run lottery that will include all male upper classmen presently on campus ,with. the possible exception of Lyons residents. Lyons will become a women's dorm next year. A computerized hall list will be submitted to the computer center to be randomly assorted within each hall by class. The list prepared by the computer will be the lottery iising. 
According to a statement issued to the SLC by Fr. Flanigan "we find that, in addition to the number of non-seniors presently off campus, 883 more students should reside off campus in order to reduce to normal the housing capacity for September 1974." Previously, Fr. Mulcahy ponted out, each hall devised its own system for handling the problem including quotas, lottery by GPA, waiting lists, and overcrowding. "We feel," he said, "that a campus-wide lottery would put everyone on an equal footing." . 
On Feb. 1 a letter will be sent to all students explaining the system. A postcard will be sent with the letter on which the students will indicate whether they wish to remain in the lottery or move off campus. Overseas returning students will also receive the letter and card and may choose to enter their previous residence hall's lottery on an equal basis with other students. All cards must be returned by April 15. Those students who indicated they wanted to go off campus, or who have not returned their card, or who are not listed with Student Accounts as pre-registered for the fall semester will be dropped from the list. Thus students at the bottom of the list may move up. Room picks will be made by May 3. 
Women will be allowed to live off campus next year but will 
not be forced off. "We have a safety valve for the women," 
Flanigan said, "since we can accept as many transfer students 
as we want." Sr. John Miriam reported that "we have not 
decided how the women will be re-distributed from four halls to 
five. It could either be a quota system or five-hall lotterv. 
Current plans call for Lyons residents to be entered in the hall 
lottery of their choice. Some members of the SLC suggested 
that since residents of the other four dorms that went to women 
were guaranteed rooms on campus the students from Lyons 
should have the same guarantee. No decision will be made on 
this until the number of Lyons residents who want to remain is 
known. 
According to Flanigan the reasons for the present problem are the unusually large confirmation rate among people accepted to this year's freshman class and the already serious over­crowding of upperclassmen. "About 130 students are voluntarily overcrowded which puts a serious strain on the halls, although there are 70 empty beds." Another reason was advanced by Dr. Faccenda, "Many more students are trying to get places on campus than in past years." 

Flanigan saw no chance that any new dorms would be built to solve the problem in the long-run. "Residentiality is one of the m,ost important things about Notre Dame but there isn't enough money to go around. Married and graduate students need housing even more badly and priority has been given to building the university's endowment. But even if someone were to give us the money I doubt if we would build a new dorm since we have no way of knowing that in a few year ;;tudents wouldn't decide to move off campus again and leave it empty." 
As an alternative Fr. James Shilts, director of the off­campus living office, is working on ways to make living in South Bend more attractive. "We are trying to cut transportation costs by setting up car-pools but the cost ofliving off-campus will be no cheaper than living on campus. Our best bet on stopping rent gougers who are charging students by the head rather than by the room is to publish a comparative list of rents and let students shop around." Shilts is also talking to a man who plans to break ground for an apartment building near the ACC in April. 
In addition to discussing the off-campus housing stiuation the Council also received acknowledgement of a letter sent to Fr. Hesburgh about the proposed calendar change. Mter listening to Fr. Burtchaell at the CCE in November the SLC recom­mended that the Academic Council reconsider its action in the face of strong student dissent. He · 


SLC discusses off-campus lottery for next year. Photo by Chris Smith 



California exorcismcreates furor 
by Thomas Hillstrom New York UPI 
A Jesuit priest, who performed rites of exorcism to expel a devil from a California couple and set off a furor among some clergymen, Monday night defended bringing the issue into the open so that those possessed by the devil realize help is available. 
But other Catholic priests appearing on NBC-TV's ·"Tomorrow Show" with Rev. Karl Batzelt disagreed, saying such cases are best left secret so as not to damage susceptible people. 
Patzelt, 57 year old pastor of Our Lady of Fatima Church in San Francisco, performed the exorcism beginning last August on a young couple and their 2 year old child in Daly City, California. That the devil possessed the family, he said, was evidenced by mysterious fires in their home, unexplained movement of various objects as large as chairs and severe seizures experienced by both parents. 
"It is important to bring clarity to these things so that persons affected know that there is a solution," the priest said following the NBC taping. "There are more persons possessed than we think and many of those in mental institutions do not belong there-they belong in the hands of a priest." 
Rev. Richard Woods, a Jesuit who teaches at Loyola University in Chicago and has specialized in the oc­cult, acknowledge his belief in exorcism, but noted that Catholic ritual requires the exorcist "to be ex­tremely careful" and perform the rites "away from a crowd." 
"It is a well known fact that people who watch exorcisms have a tendency to produce the same phenomena," he said in response to moderator Tom Snyder, Several suggestive persons have become convinced they were possessed after seeing such films as "The Exorcist," he said. 
''It is such a delicate subject that when it happens it should be kept as quiet as possible," Woods said. "Widespread publicity about exorcism is very bad." 
Rev. Edmund Ray an, executive vice-president of Georgetown University, agreed: "I think regarding the present widespread interest in exorcism, it is much better to keep these things quiet....l think 99.9999 per cent of people should not worry about possession." 
Certainly there are many cases of people who are suggestive," Patzelt responded, "but certainly there also are cases that are real." 
Rev. William O'Malley, a Jesuit from Rochester, N.Y., who appeared in the cast of "The Exorcist," classified himself as "an agnostic" when it comes to believing in the devil but added: "There are things inexplicable to me." 
Patzelt, who was born in Bohemia and is a member of the Byzantine rite, said he performed exorcism rites 14 times on the Daly City couple before, with some 20 other persons present, a "great wave of heat" came over the roorn and the family's life returned to normal. 
Once, the priest said, he, the parents and a group of their relatives were talking in the couple's living room when the child began to cry in its bed. "We found a large chair had moved into the bed on top of the infant. Now how can a psychiatrist explain that?" Patzelt asked. 
Patzelt said he performed the ritual only after ob­taining the permission of his superiors, as required. In San Francisco, Archibishop Joseph T. McGucken was reported to have misgivings about the incident. 
In Los Angeles, Bishop John Ward said Monday the furor over exorcism borders on mass hysteria and is being blown out of proporti~n. pr!)mpting many per­sons to falsely: believe they are possessed. 
"I'm not approving or disapproving of exorcism," he said. "It's a fact that the devil does exist and there is a Roman Catholic ritual using prayers to exorcise the devil." 

1. •. the observer Tues~ay,, Jan':'~ry 22,. 1974 • 
SLC to send letter of apology to UCLA Woodens 
warld 
briefs 
Wa~hington UPI -Sen. Abraham A. Ribicoff, D. Conn., looking straight at executives of seven oil companies sitting across the table, Monday accused industry giants of "cheating" and r.1isleading the American public on the energy shortage. 
Ribicoff confronted the company officials as Sen. Henry M. Jackson, D.-Wash., opened hearings by his Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations into allegations the petroleum industry has clouded the supply picture and stands to profit heavily from the energy crisis. 
The officials -representing Exxon, Amoco, Texaco, Gulf, !\lobi!, Standard of California and Shell-responded with statements saying the fuel shortage is real and that even harder times iied ahead. 
Wa!>hington UPI -Herber L. ':Bar,t" Porter? former scheduling director for President Nixon s re~lechon com­r.Jittee, was charged Monday with one count of lying to the FBI a r:11>nth after the Watergate break-in. . . 
Porter 35 testified at the Senate Watergate heanngs m June 
he had di,sp~nsed $69,000 for campaign "Dirty tricks," in~luding 
$30 000 to $35 000 to G. Gordon Liddy-but had lied about It to the 
FBI, to a g;·and jury and at the trial of the original seven 
Watergate defendants. 

Wa!>hington UPI -The Supreme Court declared it un­constitutional Monday for school boards to set an arbitrary time when women teachers must give up their jobs during pregnancy. The vote was 7 to 2. 
In the majority opinion, Justice Potter Stewart ruled: "This court has long recognized that freedom of personal choice in­r:,atters of marriage and family life is one of the liberties protected by the due process clause." 
London UPI -Prime Minister Edward Heath and the leaders of Britain's 10 million member Trades Union Congress <TUC) failed to reach agreement Monday on negotiating an end to Britain's industrial civil war. 
an campus taday 
4 p.m.-lecture, afrotc lecture series, library auditorium and lounge 
4:30 p.m.-seminar, "estrogen reception in the adrenal gland of 
the  mouth,"  dr.  timothy  a.  stabler,  galvin  life  science  
auditorium  
7,9,  11  p.m.-movie,  the  french  connection,  engineering  
auditorium, $1.00  

7:30 p.m.-lecture, technique of transcendental meditation as taught by maharishi mahesh yogi, memorial library, free 
(Continued from page 1) 
pointed out that "the academic calendar could meet all con­straints place on the University by outside agencies and still a void the 
pre-Labor Day start of classes and 
also place the extended fall 
vacation at the traditional 
Thanksgiving period." 
In its last action of the day the 
SLC voted to send a letter of 
apology to Mr. and Mrs. John 
Wooden for the abusive ianguage 
they received from some students 
in the closing minutes of the UCLA 
game. "With four minutes left in 
the game Mrs. Wooden had to ask 
security officers to stop students 
using very vulgar language," 
Dean Mach2cca told the Council. 
"Unfortunately neither security 
nor Digger Phelps could do 
anything about it at the iime." 
Macheca also mentioned that the 
Notre Dame cheerleaders were 
refused national recognition last 
year because the crowd at last 
year's UCLA game was so unruly. 
The apology to Wooden will be 
Two seniors badly hurt after game 
Two St. Mary's seniors are listed 
in serious condition in St. Joseph 
Hospital after being struck by a 
car on Notre Dame Avenue 
Saturday afternoon. 
According to St. Joseph County 
Police, Patricia Olvaney and Mary 
Chris Hollander were struck by a 
car driven by Notre Dame senior 
Robert Cox while crossing Notre 
Dame Avenue near the Morris Inn. 
Foggy conditions made visibility 
poor at the time of the accident, 
and Cox reportedly did not see the 
pedestrians until they were struck 
Olvaney, of Garden City, New 
York, suffered head injuries, a 
concussion, and multiple frac­
tures. Hollander, of Omaha, 
Nebraska, suffered head injuries, 
a concussion, and a fractured left 
leg. They were taken to St. Joseph 
Hospital. 
No tickets were issued, said 
police. 

New area ready for bicycle storage 
by Joseph Abell Managing Editor 

Students will have another op­portunity to store their bicycles in a newly~rected storage area in the stadium Thursday afternoon, announced Chris Singleton, a senior in charge of bike storage. 
The new area, constructed just prior to the Christmas vacation, will be open between 1 and 4 p.m. Thursday for students to store bikes for the rest of the winter. 
Singleton said that bikes already registered in Computer Guard through Security will be stored in the area, separated by a chain link fence and topped with barbed wire, free of charge. Anyone that is not 
registered  may  register  on  
Thursday  for  $1,  permitting  the WSND will hold auditions for 
bike to be stored.  

Computer Guard is a national bicycle registration program that protects bikes for five years. 
Students wishing to store their bikes should bring them to the 
The Observer is publiShed daily during the college semester exc:ept vacations by the stuaents of th• University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased lor S8 per sem~ter ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 



WSNDAM-FM 
the following positions ONLY: 
FM (classical) announcers 
AM music programmers 
News personnel 
Auditions will be held Tuesday and Wednesday nights (Jan. 22 and 23) 7-llpm To sign up for a time, call 7342 
drafted and signed by SBP Dennis Ettiene and SLC vice-chairman 
Robert Ackerman. 

THE FRENCH 


CONNECTION 
IN THE GREAT TRADITION OF AMERICAN THRILLERS. 
2oth Century. Fox 

COLOR BY DE LUXE" 
Tues. & Wed. 7, 9, and llpm Engineering Auditorium $1 


HELP!! l 

•..We need YOU to help build MARDI GRAS booth 
Carnival Construction runs from Tues. 22 to Tues. 29, 7-12pm 
and 1-12 Sat. and Sun. at Stepan Center 

Please come ­
and have a good time helping! 

Contact half chairmen for details 

Dotltletthe price ofa college education stop you. 
The price of a college education is skyrocket­ing. Fortunately the Air Force had done some­thing to catch up with it. For the first time, the 6500 Air Force ROTC Scholarships include the 2-year program, for both men and women. 
If you can qualify, the Air Force will pay for the remainder of your college education. Not only do ROTC 2-year college scholarships cover full tuition, but reimbursement for text­books, lab and incidental fees, as well as a tax­free monthly allowance of $100. 
To cash in on all this just apply, qualify, and enroll in the Air Force ROTC at Building 5 
Contact Captain Shepherd, 283-6634 It's a great way to nmsh your college educa­tion in the money, and enjoy a future where the sky's no limit ... as an officer in the Air Force. 


stadium gate facing the Memorial Library and marked "Pass Gate." Once inside the stadium, they should go to the left and around the stadium to Gate 7, where the facility is located. Gate 7 will not be open to the bike owners from the outside. 
Singleton said that once stored, bikes may not be removed until the storage area reopens in the spring. He said a definite date has not been set because it would depend upon the ending of the winter weather. He hooes for a date before the end 
· of March. Ifa bike is needed before that time, students should contact Singleton. He said that close to 100 bikes were stored in the facility in 
December and hopes that more 
students will take advantage of the offer. He also warned that bikes attached to the wire fences along sidewalks are against University regulations and that walks with bikes on them will not be plowed after snowfalls. 
. . ,.. . .. ) t' • .: t ' 

Tuesday, J<lnuary 22, 1974 the o'bserver. 3' 
Dean Hogan nazned to head coznznittee on energy in S.B. 
by Jim Donathen Staff Reporter 

Although most everyone is concerned with the energy crisis, real or fabricated, few have the knowledge or power to ease its effects upon our daily lives. An exception is Joseph C. Hogan, Dean of the College of Engineering who chairs the Mayor's Advisory Committee on Energy in South Bend. His committee, made up of an unsalaried cross section of South Bend residents, has the duty of studying the energy crisis as it affects the city and presenting recommendations to Mayor Miller. 
Since its creation, the committee has made several recom­mendations to ease the crisis in Sr>uth Bend, according to Hogan. One of the problems facing South Bend residents, especially the poorer and more mobile portion of the population, is the method oil companies have been using to alphabetically keep track of their customers. When a resident had 
Man-woman discussion
d z ND s 
Because of the cost involved in
group readle. lOr -MCdelivery, oil co!'npanies have been 
by Phyllis Moseley Staff Reporter 

The counseling-psychology departments of Notre Dame and St. Mary's are in the process of organizing several discussion groups concerned with the relationships between men and women on the Notre Dame-st. Mary's campuses. The groups will be moderated by a male-female team of doctorate students and Ph­D's and will focus on the following questions: 
I. What are the implications of 

the  changing  roles  of  men  and  
women for each of us?  
2. What  is  involved  in  the  

development of an intimate relationship -whether it is between those of the same sex or of the opposite sex? 
3. What does it mean to develop sexual identity ? 
According to Dr. Susie Areson, of the psychology department of St. Mary's, the coordinators hope to use the relationships within the groups to help anyone solve a special problem that they may have. 
The group will meet once a week for two hours starting January 28 until Easter break. The five groups will consist of five men and five women and will meet at the following times: 
Monday Mternoon 3-5 
Monday evening 7-9 
Tuesday Mternoon 3-5 
Wednesday Evening 7-9 
Thursday Evening 7-9 
For more information or to sign up call the secretary of the couseling department Mrs. Apt at 4835 between 8:30 -5:00. 
As a result of United Way'sDowntown demonstration complaint, Hogan called together
the agencies and oil companies in an effort to work some sort of

to mark abortion decision compromise. 
The oil companies 
by Jack D'Aurora Staff Reporter 

Today from  noon  until  1 p.m.,  
members  of  the  South  Bend  
Right  to  Life  organization and  

students from Notre Dame and St. Mary's will demonstrate in front of the South Bend Federal Building. Today marks the first anniversary of the Supreme Court decision to legalize abortion. 
The marchers will organize at the Right to Life Office at 320 N. Lafayette, where they will begin their march to the Federal Building. 
They hope to draw the attention of Indiana Congressman John Brademas, whose office is located in the Federal Building. According to Keith Montgomery, an ND student and member of the organization, "Brademas hasn't stated that he's pro-life, and we want to show him how many people are behind this movement." 
Also planned for today in Washington D.C., "there are supposed to be speeches by Senators James Buckley of New York and Jesse Helms of North Carolina and Congressman Lawrence Hoy, the men who 


Nickie's 

Tuesday 

proposed the pro life amendment 
back in January 30 of last year," 
Montgomery continued. 
The National Right to Life organization and the National Youth Pro Life coalition are also planning a big rally in Washington today. 
Montgomery added that "all across the nation people are sending in $2 to the National Right to Life organizations for the purchase of one red rose which will be sent to their respective congressman. A conservative estimate is that 25,000 roses will be sent out to the congressmen before they go into session Tuesday." 
The demonstrators in South Bend will be carrying roses symbolic of this movement. 
Montgomery stated that "back in late October and early November articles appeared in The Observer from several people calling for the University to take a stand on the aobrtion issue. Since that time we have heard no word from Fr. Hesburgh or the Board of Trustees that would even insinuate that the University would take the initiative to get behind the pro life amendment and protect unborn habies." 

Old Milwaukee-·40' pint Free pool 2:30-8:30 
moved into a different dwelling, oil companies would refuse to deliver oil even if they had previously served the resident at his former address or or the former resident of the new dwelling. Upon the committee's suggestion, Mayor Miller has contacted Indiana Senators Bayh and Hartke and 3rd District Congres~;>man Brademas in an effort to establish federal guidelines that would either require oil companies to list their customers according to their place of residence or to supply fuel to an individual if he previously received fuel oil at his previous address. 
reluctant to deliver less than 100 to 150 gallons. Residents who owned smaller tanks found themselves in a serious situation. Hogan's committee sought immediate relief for these residents by getting several companies to make emergency deliveries. They aso suggested that the city save any large usable tanks found in urban renewal areas and provide these to citizens. The mayor is checking into the legality of giving these tanks to South Bend residents. 
A third energy problem was brought to the Mayor's Committee by Uniled Way. When needy residents cannot afford to pur­chase fuel oil, it has been common in the past for such people to receive a voucher for the purchase of oil from any of a number of agencies. Because of the fuel 
shortage· and the oil companies' past experience with payments which were late or not made at all, they refused to honor the vouchers. 

We've Moved 
Now Conveniently Located in Badin Hall--Next to the Barber Shop 

Tony's Shoe Shop 
Open 8am-6pm Mon.-Fri., 9am-4pm Sat. _-All types of 
Shoe Service and Accessories -Prices Lower than shops downtown -Free pen or pencil for everyone 

NO -SMC THEATRE ANNOUNCES 

for Pinter's TRYOUTS THE HOMECOMING 
Jan. 21 and 22, 7 pm Callbacks, Jan 23, 7pm Washington Hall Washington Ha~l 
OPEN TO ALL 

ND-SMC STUDENTS {Note: Please wear clothing appropriate for physica I exercise) 

give yourself time to reflect... 
with fr. jim burtchaell 
(fri jan. 25­
(sun) jan. 27 
reservation can be made in campus ministry office (103 Lib). ss fee --$3 non­refundable deposit. 

agreed to honor the vouchers if the agencies guaranteed payment for 
the deliveries. 
Hogan seemed satisfied with his committee's co-operation and accomplishments thus far, adding "Hopefully we can be effective as problems arise in the future." 

HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
the observer Tuesday, January 22, 1974 

'Foul' Ice Fans 
Drar Editor: 
Since you are more concerned ·han anyone else about the health of public relations at the lJniYersity of Notre Dame, I am writing to express some concern which may interest you. 
Ice hockey is a great game both for participants and spectators. Fast and rough, even violent, it provides young men with courage the opportunity to test themselves under conditions of an awful stress which never decreases but rather increases. Perfection is im­possible, failure a certainty. Victory is glorious but fleeting and impermanent. It is great for spectators because each game represents 60 solid minutes of emotional involvement for a price which cannot be beaten anywhere. 
A former player once good enough to earn three college let­ters, I have supported ice hockey ever since, so my total in­volvement, if we include "shinny" on ponds before becoming a team member, is c_lose to 40 years. Ed Krause and Lefty Smith can tell you that I have "pushed" Notre Dame hockey since 1968 by initiating to its delights many people who subsequently pur­chased season tickets. I also was a referee for the first varsity hockey game played at the ACC when the paid referees were delayed by weather. 
So much for self-identification. Now to the point. 
I was saddened but not totally surprised when told by a friend recently that he and his wife were no longer planning to attend hockey games. Their season tickets were adjacent to the student section and they could not stand the foul language. 
No prude, my friend said he and his wife had made up their minds not to let the language bother them, but finally they just couldn't take it any longer. "Foul" is the right word. The students have been using the foulest. 
My own enjoyment has been affected to the point that I am careful whom I invite to attend. Behind me sits a professor whose language is also foul. Near him sits another professor ( a depart­ment head) who has been so abusive to other spectators that a man who has sat directly in front was finally provoked, after five years, to threaten physical violence recently if the man didn't let up. 
The foul language I speak of is shouted. At whom? Referees, opposing players and coaches, lately Notre Dame players who goof, and other spectators if they dare to express concern about the profanity. 
Every loyal Notre Dame sup­porter has the right to take the team to his bosom and either cheer or moan as the situation dictates. He obviously does not have the right to conduct himself in such a way as to reflect discredit upon the team or the University. Nor does he have any right, through his conduct, to abridge the civil rights of others. 
Having been in the army twice, I am familiar with the habit of swearing. Neither I nor any 

thinking adult would blame the 
coaches, the athletic department 
or the University's Ad­
ministration, for it is quite ob­
viously not the fault of any of these 
people. 
Ultimately, however, one's 

feelings for the University must be 
affected, so it is a situation 
requiring attention. It is the 
townspeople who have supported 
the hockey team from the begin­
ning, more so than the Notre 
Dame family. I hope their support 
will be cultivated, not discouraged. 
Notre Dame's football team is 

number one after months of 
supreme effort and self-sacrifice. 
It would take little effort and no 
self-sacrifice for its students and 
faculty to be number one spec­-tators. Sincerely, Donald R. Rawson 
Whining 


Columnist 
Dear Editor: 

As per Mr. Sabin's column in Monday's Observer ("The Dillon Incident"); I would not hesitate to admit (nor would, I think, the majority of the student body) that the recent disciplinary actions of the Administration are distressing. 
Unfortunately, however, Mr. Sabin has fallen into the trap of those columnists who assault rabidly problems which they are unable to tackle discursively. Admittedly, we now find ourselves in a situation where the dubious concept of "in loco parentis" has taken on bullish and degrading proportions -a situation whereby the Administration seems to have set itself up as the paragon of virtue and the righteous defender of Christian morals. And ad­mittedly, insofar as the student body has permitted this policy to continue and expand (silence gives consent, they say) it is important that these questions be brought out in the open and most scrupulously examined. 
However, the type of righteous whining which Mr. Sabin has lapsed into adds nothing to such a discourse. Its only result is to offend; and, sadly enough, it not only succeeds in offending, it also serves to endanger the efforts of those members of the University community who are hoping to uncover some effective and mature way out of the morass of righteousness which now threatens to stifle us. 
Sincerely, 
Kerry S. McNamara 
Wooden 


Heckle.-s 

Dear Editor: 
Shortly I will write to Coach John Wooden and his wife and apologize for the Notre Dame student body for the obscene taunts leveled at him within Mrs. Wooden's hearing. I have too much respect for Notre Dame to think our team--or fans­are encouraged by the Irish red­neck. The young men in the lower part of section 7 really should have been spectators at a cockroach race at county jail instead of a game between-the two best teams in the country coached by two of the finest men in sports. The section 7 students were joined in their obnoxious comments by two young men in the upper reaches of the A.C.C. who also screamed embarrassing obscenities. Perhaps th<!y had just seen the Exorcist. When I encounter them on campus, I'll ask them to identify themselves, although I'd guess they would prefer the anonymity of the crowd. I'm also sure that 
'"'IJach Phelps did not feel the "bull "' •it" chant was particularly he..,.>ful in endearing the officials to Notre Dame. 
Two years ago the Irish cheerleaders were voted National Champions. Last year the judges came to the UCLA game and decided the cheerleaders would not repeat as National Champions. The poor behavior of our crowd was considered to reflect badly on one championship team. The judges had held our crowd ac­countable when few here would. 
The Notre Dame student body provides a tremendous rush of enthusiasm for our teams. Our student fans deserve a fraction of a point in credit for the contest won by the more talented but no less anxious team members. We have our boors. It is a shame that we give the Los Angeles species an excuse to "get on" Notre Dame Saturday night. I find it interesting that our best cheer may be our silent cheer. I also feel that young men who are well liked and whose conduct is so good for most of the time they are here should be able to refrain from back alley paranoia at athletic events. 
Om· athletes are among the country's finest; so are our student spectators, I hope. 
Rev. Terrance Lally, C.S.C. 
Spock Blames Experts 

NEW YORK <UPil-Dr. Ben­jamin Spock, author of the book on "Baby and Child Care," was ready to admit Monday that he must share part of the blame for the "brattiness" of some of today's children. 
"Inability to be firm is ... the commonest problem of parents in America today," says Spock, writing in the February issue of Redbook magazine. 
And he blames at least part of the resulting "brattiness" of America's children on the ex­pert.s-"the child psychiatrists, psychologists, teachers, social workers and pediatricians like myself. 
"In other words, parental submissiveness doesn't avoid unpleasantness; it makes it inevitable." 
the observer 

Night Editor: J. R. Baker Ass't. Night Editor: Tim O'Reiley Layout: Tom O'Neil, Gary All ietta, Bi II Murphy, Clyde Iverson, Marlen Zloza Copy Editor: Marlene Zloza Day Editor: Gary Allietta, Jim Rosini Typists: Barb Norcross, Howard Halle, Joe Abell, Jeff McPherson, Tom Modglin Compugraphic: Tom Wich Pictures: Jerome Night Controller: John Flannigan Sports: Peggy Lawlor and Greg Corgan 




Orphan 

The Tribunal of Death 

ed ellis 
~ 


I. Aftermath: In Truth's Heart of Hearts 
Before the Tribunal of Death man stands naked. He has no rights; 
there is, of course, no appeal. Counsel comes only from within, and 
speech--m· silence--affects nothing, not even the premature arrival of 
the pre-ordained end. 
Since it rules so intimidating a body of circumstances, the Tribunal 
of Death sits rarely. It sat today, and it chronicled for future 
Tribunals the most singular event in its history, though had physicians 
at previous executions been somewhat quicker of eye and more nimble 
with their instruments, the event might have been somewhat less 
disconcerting than it was. But then again, justices and physicians are 
paid to be disconcerted, and so long as the citizenry never thinks about 
the details, the physicians and men of law can sustain the burden of 
the state even in so singular an instance as this one. 
II. Flashback: Deliberation in Chambers 
"I find it hard to believe he would not be welcome in his own 
homeland," said the first of three men. "His is a brilliant mind. Its 
orientation is simply not compatible with a modern reasoned society 
such as our own." 
"I'll concede to you the fact of his intelligence, but I can't believe his message was well-received where it came from. Why would he leave?" This was from the second justice. 
"They say he spoke of the potential of the trained imagination and the power of the human mind to improve its environment through constant struggle," the second continued. "His audience naturally did not respond, and so he was no longer welcome." 
"My own analysis is that his imagination and his philosophy outgrew his home, and so he went forth to challenge a new world~ur own." The speaker was now the third grey-haired justice of the Death Tribunal. 
"In his own world, he was not without friends~thers who thought and taught like him," the third continued. "From the record however, it would seem that these people, these associates, were content to share their work in small groups, and mostly with each other. He attempted to popularize his message by an evangelical sort of process." 
"Of course, it was all nonsense and no one understood him, and so he left and has since challenged our society. He is an unusual one." "He certainly doesn't follow the rules of logic and procedure laid out by the founders of our system," commented the first justice. 
"No, he retains much of what the record shows in his old philosophy," noted the ~econd jurist. "This talk--and action, I might add--about man's creative energies and the 'human potential' is ut­terly withoutredeemingsocial value in our society." 
"For which he must be sentenced to Death by suffocation," con­cluded the third, and Chief Justice. "It is ordered; do you not agree?" The first, and junior, justice grimaced at the word "Death" and made protest. 
The second man shook his head, however, and responded from rote, 
"Death by suffocation is indicated." 
Reciting from the Charter of Statues, he continued: 'Fine-forged manacles shall be placed upon the prisoner until he cries out from the restrictions. He shall surrender through pain all belief in unreasonable ideas such as divinity, imagination love, etc. He shall be made to cry the Infant's tear, and after suffocation, he shall be drawn on a flat-bed Hearse to burial in a solid-poured cement block. That is the law of the land. It will be done." 
The Chief Justice began to conclude the Tribunal's deliberations, 
"And so like the streets, it is chartered. It is Death," he prounounced. 
A sharp knock on the chamber door announced the entrance of a clerk. The youthful composure he exhibited on(y hours before had go~e. As he approached the three high jurists, he began to speak, "Strs, I am sorry..." 
"Young man!" the Chief Justice interrupted, "you know better than to enter !he chamber of the Tribunal of Death! Out! Out!" "But sirs, there will be no need for your ruling. The prisoner is 
dead." 
A period of silence. 
"He may have died; he ceased to live when he challenged this land," murmured the junior justice. The Chief Justice called for order and spoke, "Clerk, what are the physician's findings?" The Clerk sturggled, "A...A c...certainty, S...Sir. He willed himself Dead." 
Ill. The Still Point: ShaUl At Least Set My Lands In Order?? 
On the porch of a house that was distant both physically and tem­porally from the scene described above, two men and woman waited for a thunderstorm to abate. While they waited, they spoke of a man they thought they had known well. 
"It was typical of him to pre-empt the state by suicide before execution," said one of the men. "He probably wanted to be a mar­tyr." 
"But the news reports that reached us said there was something extraordinary about his death," remarked the woman, her words obscured by the thunder. 
"Heh-heh, he certainly should have known that such martyrdom doesn't exist in that land," laughed the second man. "No saints, no sinners, no imagination to produce them." 
"He was either a hypocrite or a fool," contended the first. 
"I wouldn't go that far," said the second man. "I've always granted some credence to folklore, and the rumor is that by some feat of medicine, he simply willed himself to death. Now I can't speak of the painful aspects of termination by will, but it is certainly not impossible that he saw his error and it literally killed him." 

"No!" the girl began emphatically. She was cut off by the violent intrusion of the storm into the conversation. Much upset perhaps by the coincidence of the subject and the thunder, she then lapsed into silence, and the three waited out the storm in si'·--·!e. 
____j 
Tuesday, January 22, 1974 the observer 
5 

JOnI mitchell at ease 
a review by fred graver 

From the beginning last night it was very evident that Joni Mitchell has changed in her attitude toward the performance of her music. She has mellowed considerably. Since her last tour, her approach to each song is more melodious than before when she seemed inhibited by the power of her words. The change was especially evident in her vocals, which were considerably freer and more at ease with the tensions set in the words. 
A nice example of this new style was her treatment of "You Turn Me On, I'm A Radio." The woman can be, when she wants to, tremendously sexy. She swayed to and fro, swinging her hips and carrying her guitar along like a prostitute swings her purse. That flaunting is what the song is about, and Joni Mitchell conveyed all of the feelings which the flaunting of feminity can bring out. 
Her new songs ;lave a certain quality of 1·enewed vitality in them, too. She seems to have gained a little more control of her soul now, and in that little bit of control she has found a new freedom to express her feelings. 
The new songs which stick out in my mind 
the most are the love songs. They possess a 
quality of lightness and ease which has 
before now been missing. Joni can still 
pinpoint with stunning accuracy the 
millions of idiosyncracies of a love affair. 
The song about a beautiful pick-up checking 
her sex appeal in the bathroom mirror 
before returning to her lover, and the 
following tune about feeling unable to en­
counter love because of a peculiar loss of 
heart show a new side of her vision of love, 
the vain and egotistical side that comes 
from protecting oneself too much. 
The show opened with a set by Tom Scott 
and the L.A. Express. The audience didn't 
expect their funky style of jazz, and greeted 
Scott's arrival with hands under their seats. 
Though they were very good, very tight, and 
very talented, there were only a few jazz 
freaks in the audience who really cared 
enough to appreciate them. In many ways 
they reminded me of The Section, James 
Taylor's back-up group. In fact, the 
guitarist could run in a look-alike contest 
with Danny Kortchmar of the Section. Tom 
Scott is a good flautist and alto sax player, 
but his strongest point comes with his tenor 
sax playing. The pianist deserves a lot of 
credit for keeping the group together at 
times when they seemed as though they 
were going to falter in over-enthusiasm. 
Their performance of a John Coltrane 
composition was a true 'bit of inspired 
playing, and the group-written piece "L.A. 
Expression" brought together all of the best 
elements of the band, leaving out Scott's at 
times oppressive conducting. ''Expression'' 
r.1usically covered atmospheres from the 
desolate to the chaotic. 
Working with Joni, they provided some really fine arrangements of older tunes and seemed to be something of an inspiration for her music in the new tunes. I think that especially in the arrangements of "This Flight Tonight" and "Both Sides Now", a heightened sophistication was shown. 
Another big surprise about this band was that they could lay down some really fine rock and roll. "Raise on Robbery", which Joni introduced by saying "We're gonna boogie for ya ", was perfect for the close of the concert. The encore closer, "Twisted" (an old song that's enjoying some new popularity thanks to Miss Mitchell and Bette Midler) brought all of the loose and easy style of the evening. into welcome per­spective. 
Joni emerged after the intermission to c!:; a solo set. She mixed new songs with old, and in the process presented the most touching moments of the evening. A song about a beautiful fashion model crying drunkenly at a party and explaining that it provides the same release as laughing combined chilling images with ironically 
light  melody  to  produce  a  moment  of  
delicate pathos.  
The  two  most  touching  songs  of  the  

evening were performed on the dulcimer. "A Case of You'and "All I Want" were two instances of very personal openness from 
Joni to the audience. 

The concert was excellent, slowed at points only by the audience's unwillingness to readily accept certain changes in Joni Mitchell as a performer. The feeling that she left us with was the same sort of quiet elation that was produced by James Taylor and Paul Simon. The beauty of her poetry and the delicacy of her melodies combined to make the evening a soft moment of simle joy in the hum of Joni Mitchell, and in . the hum 









TONIGHT 
thru Thursday Night alter 9:00pm. Anyone and everyone is invited to THE OBSERVER 
Open 1-louse, tonight thru Thursday after 9 :00 pm. You.may iust be interested in how the paper is put out, or you may want to ioin up. Either way, stop in! 
Also: Full staff meeting tonight at 7:00 pm. Staff yearbook picture before meeting at 6:30 pm. 


6 

the observer' Tuesday, January 22, 1974 
t
, 
I 
I 
I 
'l 
I 
I ' ~ 
I 
~ 
... When the going gets tough, the tough get going ... 
' 

****************************************************************** 
* * 
* * 

i * * * Congratulations i * * * 
* *
* *
* * ~ * IRISH * ~ 
* * 
* * * *
* * * ~ You're always i* * * 
* * 
* * 
~ * no. 1 with us * ~ 
* : 
t***************************************************************** 
From the guys at 
UNITED BEVERAGE CO. Distributors of: 



MICHELOB. Budweiser 
And now ... 

I -Busch 
I I I 
Impeachment plans proceed 
Congress returns to work 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Senate 
and House leaders Monday called 
for a quick verdict on the im­
peachment of President Nixon and 
swift action on energy legislation 
as they began the second session of 
the 93rd Congress. 
After a month-long recess, 
members of Congress returned 
under growing pressure from 
constituents to act-one way or 
another-on the question of im­
peachment. 
S. Viets ask UN to help in China fight 
United Nations UPI 
South Vietnam has requested an immediate meeting of the Security Council to hear its accusation that the People's Republic of China of committed aggression -against the Paracel Islands, a United Nation's spokesman announced Monday. South Vietnamese Foreign Minister Vuong Van Bac, who 1·equested the meeting Sunday night, charged that the Chinese attack against the islands was "a serious breach of international peace and security, threatening 
the independence, sovereignty and 
territorial integrity of small 
nations everywhere, particularly 
in Asia." 
Chinese sources indicated they 
did not consider it necessary that 
the council have a meeting. The 
Chinese mission to the United 
Nations also issued two statements 
on the conflict, both accusing South 
Vietnam of intruding with war­
ships and air planes into Chinese 
territorial waters and air space. 
Both China and South Vietnam 
claim the barren islands in the 
South China Sea 200 miles off the 
South Vietnamese coast and 200 
miles south of China's Hainan 
Island. In a two-day attack China 
used planes, naval gunfire and 
amphibious troops to seize the 
islands from the South Viet­
namese. 
"Speed is secondary to accuracy and thoroughness but the very nature of the investigation in­dicates it should be expedited," Speaker Carl Albert said. 
House Republican Leader John 
J. Rhodes told reporters that the mood of the country is to "Have this doni:' and over with." 
The strongest words came from House Democratic Leader Thomas 
P. O'Neill Jr., who said "It would be in the best interests of the nation if the President would resign. 
"He has lost thecredibilityof the nation," the Massachusetts congressman said. "It would be in the best interests of the nation if the President would resign.. 
"There would not be this forthing and frustration we have now." 
Rhodes, however, said, "I disagree with him completely. Any talk of resignation is premature." 
And Albert said, "I wold have to think a long time before recom­mending to the President that he resign." 
Although the House started slowly with no major legislation on tap the first day, the Senate plunged into debate on the seating of newly appointed Sen. Howard H. Metzenbaum, D; Ohio, and prepared to move against a filibuster backing emergency energy legislation. 
Sen. Carl. T. Curtis, R-Neb., sought to seat Metzebenbaum, appointed to fill the unexpired term of now Attorney Genral William B. Saxbe, "without prejudice" until the Senate Rules committee investigated the new senator's dispute with the Internal Revenue Service. 
But the Senate rejected Curtis' demands and Metzbenbaum was. sworn in by Vice President Gerald 
R. Ford, giving the Democrats a 58-42 majority. Curtis' motion was killed 53-22, in the sesssions's first roll call vote. 
Senate Democratic Leader Mike 
Mansfield and Sen. Henry M. 
Jackson, D-Wash., chairman of the 
Senate Interior Committee an­
nounced they would move agianst 
an expected filibuster, threatening 
to delay passage of the emergency 
energy bill. 
The bill, which would give Nixon 
sweeping emergency powers to 
impose gas 1·ationing and other 
consenation measures, was 
blocked by an oil-state filibuster in 
the closing days of the last session. 
Jackson said he wuld file a cloture petition Tuesday which would automatically bring a vote Thursday on cutting off debate. The cloture motion requires a two­thirds majority. 
St. Mary's English Dept. 
to offer tour of London 
The St. Mary's College English England have had no adverse Department has announced it is effects on London tourists. All offering a London Show Tour busses, subways, taxis, during Spring Break. Tour dates restaurants, and theatres are are March 9 through March 17. operating 100 per cent normal, and The Show Tour price of $451 in­the British pound recently reached cludes round trip air tran­its lowest point ever against the sportation from South Bend, American dollar, thus making the London hotel accomodations for dollar go further in Britain. These seven nights, four free theatre energy measures are expected to tickets, breakfast each morning, a be lifted by March. sightseeing tour of London and free A$100 deposit will be required by admission to exhibitions at the February 1, 1974 to secure a tour Royal Academy of Arts, among seat. Deposits are presently being other discounts and benefits. The accepted at the campus travel Show Tour is open to all St Mary's buraeau, located on the first floor and Notre Dame students, faculty, of Badin Hall at Notre Dame. administration, their families and Please call Sr. Jean LKlene at 284­friends. 4516 or Clark Eide at 234-2098 for 
The energy saving measures in further information. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES 

CARPENTERS, ARTISTS, CLEVER PEOPLE OF ALL KINDS! Help build Middle Earth in Stepan Center! Mardi Gras construction every night 7-12(1-12 Sat., Sun.) Jan. 22-29. c,)me on over! 
Trib subscriptions call Henry 8851. 
Seeking good men and women for low profile elite group of adventurers. First meeting of ND Backpackers and Climbers 'onite 9:30 Room 2C 2nd fllor LaFortune. 
PERSONALS 

Many thanks to our South Bend TribuneCustomers for their generosity at Christmastime. 
JOO, Mike, and Tom. 
KAPU SAYS: '15 1 CENTS AND THAT MYTHICAL NATIONAL FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP ENTITLES ANY ND STUDENT TO A CUP OF COFFEE AT THE HALEKULANI HOTEL IN WAIKIKI KAPU OF HONOLULU. 
TC: Stop staring at me or say something. 
-M 

Good tix for the Friday Feb. 8 performance of "Grease" at M,)rris Civic are now available at the student Union ticket Office, open daily 1-5 pm. 
FOR SALE 

1960 Olds. Cheap dependable transportation. $50, Carlton 287-0560 or 287-2328. 
Fender 12 string electric guitar and case. Also reel-toreel tape recorder. Call 7991. 
Marantz 2215 $175. Call 1480. 
BeauIieu Super 8 movie camera, BAIA viewer + Eumig splicer.$600. 256-0701 or 259-8676. 
Kenwood stereo reciever KR· 3200 3mos. old. 232-6437 after 3. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost antique gold bracellet with cameo stone, before Xmas vacation. $10 reward. Judy 6804. 
Found watch on South quad. 
Call Joe to identify.  1531.  
Found automatic front of Dillon. Thuidentify call 6514.  pencil rsday.  in To  

Found laundry card 31004 during registration in Stepan. To claim call Mike C. 6984. 
Books for sale: Oral lnterp.­Lee, Macro Econ-Barrett. Pol. Econ of Pros.-Okun, Org. Theories-Sexton, Bus. Econ­Colberg. Call John 282-1568 
WANTED 

Need 2 girls for apt. Call 8620. 
MOTORCYCLE AC· CESSORIES: Responsible person with mechanical background to run motorcycle accessories dept. Great chance to learn retail mer­chandising and display. Hours to suii class schedule. Apply to manager, Mr. H. Honda 50715 US 31 N. 
Reasonably reserved faculty or grad professional student to occupy second bedroom at Park J,efferson. First bedroom occupied by new faculty member. 283-6660. 
Experienced typist would like typing to do at horne. 291-3351. 
Need roommate for NO Apt., call Torn at 282-1169. 
Need ride to Purdue Fri. or Sat. Call Mark 3623. 
Used electric typewriter wantecl. Call 6988. 
Need 2 GA tix + 2 student tix for Marquette game. Call 4007. 
Tuesday, January 22, 1974 
the observer~ 7· 
Hairstyling ... with style 
+Award Winning Stylists 
+Unique Atmosphere 
+ Roffler Styling and Products 
KEN'S DEN 
First Floor, 100 Center 
Mishawaka, Indiana 
Appointments Prefered, 2SS-6SOO 

"A Long-Expected Party" 



Tolkien Costume Ball 
THURSDAY, JAN 31, 9-12 La Fortune Ballroom 

singles $2.00 couples $3.75 
...tickets on sale MON, TUES, WED in the dining halls 
"Anyway, I mean to en;oy myself on Thursday" Bilbo Baggin"> o. 49 

Athletic and



NOTRL DAME 

Convocation Center 
Ticket Pnces: Tickets on sale: Bleachers ---••••• -.$3.50 NOTRE DAME, A. C. C. Mon. -Sat. 9 to s 
Lower Arena •••••• ".$4.50  Robertson's South Bend & Concord Mall  
Main Fllor • --••••• -­$5.50  St Joseph Bank. ­ and branches  
Loge ---­---------­$5.50 Platform •••••••••••$5.50  First Bank -Main office only Elkhart Truth  

FOR MAIL ORDER: State number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to 
N.D. J. Geils Band. Send to J. Geils Band Show A.C.C. ticket office, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Enclose self­addressed stamped envelope. 
8 

the observer Tuesday, January 22, 1974 
Irish cagers look forward--to KU 
by Greg ('organ 

Coaching can be an awfully frustrating profession. For a good coach must learn to forget about his wins almost as quickly as he nust forget about his losses -even 1he biggest win of his career. 
Fortunately the Irish have a !2ood coach, and while the rest of ihe campus has been basking in the ~lory of Saturday's incredible win over UCLA, Digger Phelps has spend his time preparing for tonight's clash with the Kansas Jayhawks. In fact, his thoughts in the lockerroom seemed more concerned with the rest of the season than with the great feat his team had, minutes before ac­complished. 
"Hey," Digger hept saying, ··we've got Kansas next and that's a big one We start preparing at S
t o'clock Sunday night. We play these guys mCLAl next Saturday. Another big one. Then we come lwme against Marquette."
t 
[-
But tonight it's Kansas at Law1·ence in Allen Field House, a place r.1uch akin to 1'farquette's Milwaukee Arena since the 
Jayhawks make it customary to win at home. And against the number one Irish, the KU fans could make things a little un­comfortable for Phelps and his c1·ew. 
"We've been looking forward to this game for some time now." said Kansas head coach Ted Owens: "Certainly Notre Dame is one of the country's outstanding basketball teams and I think it will be good for us to play a team of this caliber. We have made good progress of late :md this should give us a good indication of how good a basketball team we are." 
The Jayhawks carry a 11-3 record into the game this evening including a 3-0 mark in the Big Eight. Two of their losses earlier this season came at the hands of national powers Kentucky and Indiana. Since that first week in December, however, KU has won ten games while losing only one. 
"I think we are playing with more poise and concentration than earlier," allowed Owens. We had a chance at Iowa State to let a good­sized lead slip away from us but we instead showed the maturity necessary to put the game away when we had actually lost the momentum." 
Owens starts one senior, three juniors, and one freshman in­cluding guard and co-captain Tom Kivisto (6-2, 180) and Dale Greenlee (6-2, 175) in the back­court. Along with pivotmen Rick Suttle (6-9, 200), who averaged 16.3 

OBSERVER. 
SPORTS 
Tracksters take first 
by Pete McHugh 

With impressive showing in the middle distance and field events, the Notre Dame track team opened its 1974 indoor season victoriously last Thursday by edging Ball State 67-63 in Muncie, Indiana. 
Sophomore Bob Schott's double victory in the 300 ( :33.3) and 440­yard (: 52.0) dashes and junior Ron DePetris' overall performance sparked the triumph. Schott led Notre Dame's middle distance domination as the Irish swept the top three places in both the 300 and 440-yard events. DePetris placed in four events including a first­place finish in the long jump (21' 7"). 
Along with the middle distance scoring, juniors Mike Housely and Jack Gerwe kept Notre Dame in contention with victories in the mile and 70-yard high hurdles respectively. Housely captured the mile in 4:17.3 and came back with a second-place finish in the half­mile. Gerwe took his specialty with a :09.0 clocking. 
A pair of freshmen were also impressive in their varsity debuts for the Irish. John Long, a high school quarter-mile sensation from Chicago, won the grueling 600-yard run and Allen Pulikowski put the shot 54' 6%" to easily take the event. 
Besides these performances, the Irish relied on its depth in most events to defeat the Cardinals. ~-Freshman Paul Martuscello placed second in the 300-yard dash and third in the 60-yard event. In the 600-yard run, senior Don 1 Creehan took second only a step behind Long, while sophomore Bill Phillips was second in the shot put. Other Irish scoring included Jim Clouse (2nd, 440-yard), Jim Dragma (2nd, high jump), James 
Hurt (2nd, two rnile), Mike Gahagan (3rd, 1000-yard), and Mark O'Shaugnessy (3rd, pole vault). 
Coach Don Faley was pleasantly surprised with his team's per­formance following only two days of practice after the semester break. As for the 1974 season, Faley was optimistic, "Our distance program is exceptionally strong with several fine runners, and if we can get some good per­formances from the sprints and field events, we should have a very representative year." 
Notre Dame opens its home season at the ACC Thursday night against Northwestern in its next dual meet. Field events begin at 
5:30 p.m. and track events at 6 
p.m. Admission is free for all students with presentation of an 
ID. 


UCLA is in the past and in the future, but tonight Adrian Dantley and his teammates will be concerned with 
ppg last year as a sophomore, and "I have been pleased with the Danny Knight, who n1ay start over effort we are receiving. I felt in the Suttle, the Jayhawks go with junior Iowa State victory last week that Roger Morningstar (6-6, 210) and everyone who played made a freshman Norm Cook (6-8, 210) to specific contribution. If we are to complete their front line. So far be a title contender it will be im­
this group has come a long way in portant for us to continue to get improving last year's 8-IIJ. record, this type of support from including a 66-64 overtime loss to everyone." the Irish, and Owens has been 
Likewise is the situatign for thehappy with their performance. 
Irish, and post-UCLA game let­down is certainly not in order. The Irish would like to go out to California next weekend with a still unblemished record. But victories over Kansas and St. Francis this week have to come first. But Digger's not one to overlook anything. 
Tonight's game will be broad­cast live on radio stations WNDU and WSBT starting at 7:35. 
Wrestlers lVin seventh straight 
by Hal Munger 
The Irish grapplers made it seven dual meet victories in 
a row, establishing a new school record, by downing DePauw and Marshall this weekend in the ACC's auxiliary gym. DePauw was destroyed 36-8 on the strength of two pins, five decisions, a for­feit, and a draw. Marshall lost 25­17 to the Irish who pinned twice, decisioned 3 times and tied once. 
Things started out well for the Irish Friday night as DePauw's 118 pounder was unable to make weight. Skip Mondragon took the forefeit to give ND a quick 6-0 lead. 
Dan Heffernan and Randy Zelick tied 6-6 at 126 pounds before Notre Dame won the five succeeding matches to roll up a 26-2 lead. 
Hometowner Mike Haws, a frosh from South Bend Riley, won 7-2 at 
134. In the 142 class, dependable Davy Boyer beat Deleon 12-4. 
DFritz B1·uening shut out DePauw's 150 pounder 7-o and Rich Gilloon, the Notre Dame 158 pound senior, decisioned Brubaker 6-3. John Dowd came up with a big Irish pin on Kevin Vaughn at 
3:46. Mike Kemp, filling in for the injured Chip Habig at 177, was pinned in 4:09 before Pete Meade earned a spectacular decision over DePauw's Steele at 190 pounds. Meade stoppedSteelell-Q. Mike Fanning, returning to the mat after a two year absence, pinned Hammes of DePauw in 1:22 to finalize the scoring. 
Saturday morning, preceeding the basketball spectacular, ND's wrestlers staged their own spec­tacular. Marshall, the Huntington, West Virginia school which was undefeated in its first five dual meets, fell io the Irish in a come­from-behind win, featuring the efforts of junior heavyweight Mike Fanning. Fanning, who won 25 matches his freshman year ,pinned Ron Lemon in 2:37 to salvage the victory. Lemon was Fanning's 
second pinned victim in as many 
matches this season. 

The other Irish pin was provided by Fritz Bruening in the 150 pound category. Bruening took care of Dave Carr in 4:17. 
Dave Boyer gave Notre Dame its first lead of the meet when he decisioned Gerald Cornell 13-3 at 142 pounds.Theearly Marshall lead had come because of an 8-2 decision over Domer Skip Mon­dragon and because of a draw at 126 between Gary Holiday and Dan 
~Heffernan. Mike Haws' 12-2 
decision at 134 set the stage for 
Boyer. 

At 158 Rich Gilloon was pinned in 
7 :41 while Mike Kemp and Pete Meade were both decisioned. 
The Notre Dame victory was their eighth success in nine dual meets. Duquesne and St.Francis are the Irish' next opponents, both on the road, both this weekend. 
·The grapplers return to the "pit" to face Western Michigan on February 7th. 



ACAPULCO! 
EVERYONE INTERESTED IN THE SPRING TRIP TO ACAPULCO, INCLUDING THOSE WHO HAVE ALREADY PAID THE DEPOSIT--GO TO 
THE MEETING WEDNESDAY, JAN 23 at 
7:OOpm IN LAFORTUNE'S FIESTA LOUNGE 
Attendance is mandatory! 
Details of the trip will be discussed. 





