
--~-----------~---------------~-----------, 
OD The Inside 
UFO's on campus .•• page 3 Angela street project .•. page 7 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Thursday, February 28, 1974

Vol. yIll, No. 89 

Capp. McLaughlin in run-offs 
Five SLC races decided, Sirica chosen Senior Fellow 
by Ken Bradford and Pat Flynn Winiarczyk-Shankei-Mclaughlin-Oberhardt-Gahagan-Capp-Viilarosa-Rahiii­
Staff Reporters The tickets of Ray Capp-Greg Ericksen and Pat McLaughlin-Frank Flanagan will face each other Fridav in a run-off election for Student Body President and Vice-President. Alumni In the eiections yesterday Capp-Ericksen 
received 1110 votes to win their spot on the Badin March 1 ballot while McLaughlin-Flanagan polled 1007 votes. The two winning tickets will 
Breen-Philips
have until midnight Thursday to campaign for the Friday run-off. The two tickets reached the run-offs by polHng together more than 50 percent Cavanaugh of the 3628 votes cast. 
The Capp-Ericksen ticket won eleven of the Dillon voting districts with the McLaughlin-Flanagan ticket winning eight districts. The Gahagan, 
Farley

Oberhardt, and Rahill tickets controlled one district each, winning the home halls of each 
Fisher

presidential candidate. 
Immediately following the announcement of the election results, the tickets of Rahill-Wordal Flanner and Winiarczyk-Famula announced their sup­port of the McLaughlin-Flanagan ticket. 
Grace

The largest victory margin of the election was achieved in Pangborn Hall, where McLaughlin is 
Holy Cross

hall president. He scored 170 votes to Capp's 17, out of 198 valid votes cast. 
The four candidates will appear at a forum at Howard Standord-Keenan Hall tonight at 11:30 . Also, the candidates have been invited to join Provost Fr. 
Keenan 
James Burtchaell on a WSND "Contact" broadcast Thursday night at 10 p.m. Plans are 
Lyons

being made to allow students to phone in questions to the candidates and Fr. Burtchaell for the program. Morrissey 
Capp stressed the full-scope platform of his ticket in an interview after the returns were Pangbornannounced. "Our platform has been the focus of attack during the campaign simply because we 
Sorin
have a platform," Cap stated. 
"We alone of all the presidential tickets have presented a platform of researched and feasible St. Ed's programs that simply cannot be picked apart anymore," Capp noted. St. Joe's 
"I would never vote for a candidate for student body president who refuses to tell you anything 
Stanford
about what he's going to do once he is elected," he explained. 
Walsh
"We're new people but we're not ignorant of the ways to get things done. This is demonstrated by our thorough research and the ad­Zahm ministration's acceptance of our proposals," Capp continued. 

Off-Campus
Capp listed plans for serving the off-campus student, finding summer jobs for students, special TGIF parties every Friday in LaFortune, Total and providing students with the information needed to understand the workings of student government. 

Famula McErlean Fianagan Collins O'Connell Ericksen Zimsky Wordal 
10  9  54  16  5  -18  6  31  
6  4  13  2  3  20  12  
30  2  55  5  9  39  2  16  
8  9  17  10  88  2  12  
12  27  5  10  84  71  21  
5  10  37  6  50  6  26  
14  0  27  5  4  41  4  8  
48  5  106  8  10  73  10  39  
36  64  41  6  37  95  14  18  
4  54  3  23  6  22  
11  2  21  14  6  46  5  3  
8  0  42  3  88  38  43  
15  0  67  0  4  44  4  
8  78  12  12  125  6  19  
0  0  170  5  4  17  2  
0  17  37  35  15  
I .,  
7  0  20  3  39  0  25  
0  0  10  0  7  0  7  
8  4  23  25  51  107  
3  2  67  3  2  19  2  19  
14  0  14  3  27  64  6  42  
18  5  55  11  10  64  24  16  
269  lll  1007  171  283  1110  170  507  

Valid Total 3628 No Vote Total (blanks or write-ins) 140 Total -3768
"Because of our concrete proposals for student services, we've been labelled as simply a service and Flanagan had employed had been effective. organization. This is not true. We will turn our "We wanted the word of what we were about to enthusiasm and determination to the area of the spread around in the halls by word of mouth. We procurement of students' rights," Capp stated. relied very heavily on our campaign workers in 
Pat McLaughlin and Frank Flanagan, who each of the halls and they really came through,"finished second in the primary voting, said after he claimed. 
the final tallies were announced, that "we did McLaughlin added that the students would better than we had thought we would." have a clear choice on Friday, terming Capp a McLaughlin explained that he thought the strong service orientation candidate, while 
retraction printed in The Observer concerning rating himself moderate on service but, em­the controversial proposal of Capp and Ericksen phasizing strong student leadership. to establish basketball courts in Stepan Center, Frank Flanagan added that "he was looking
would hurt them more than it did. "The heart of forward to tomorrow"-to campaigning and 
our argument was the quote from Dr. Fac­making clear to the students the differences cenda," <that the proposals for the courts had between the two candidates. not as yet passed the University Officers and the Upon completion of the election returns, the Business Affairs Staff). "We didn't want other candidates reacted to the totals. Andy
something to be put as definite when it was not" Winiarczyk issued a statement endorsingstated McLaughlin. McLaughlin and Flanagan. Winiarczyk said that 
He also stated in an interview after the election "Pat anf Frank are by far the most talented tally proceedings which were broadcast over candidates available." WSND that the low key campaign style that he (continued on page 2) 


SMC parietals changed ...see page 2 
~ 
I f I 
I 
the observer Thursday, Februa'ry fa, 'f974 
warld 

briefs 

BONN <UPili-Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger will fly here Sunday night for a talk with Chancellor Willy Brandt the following morning, the government announced Wednesday. 
State Secretary Ruediger von Wechmar said Kissinger will meet Foreign Minister Walter Scheel after his arrival Sunday evening, and confer with Brandt Monday morning, before flying on to Brussels. 
"Mr. Kissinger has asked for a general discussion of all pertinent matters," von Wechmar said. 
WAR. W.Va <UPI>-The mayor of War has declared war. 
Any gasoline truck which enters this coal town, Mayor Wesley Miller said Wednesday, will be stopped and unloaded whatever its destination. 
War, a town of 2,000 is in the heart of the southern West Virginia coal fields, where than 10,000 miners were off the job for lack of gasoline to drive to and from work. 
Terming the situation "desperate," Miller said he felt it justified his orders to stop any gasoline truck entering the town. 
an campus today 

4:00p.m. seminar, "introduction to the theory of localization by dr. ~-p. eggarter, con. room, rad, research bldg. 
4: 30 p.m. forum, "the composer speaks," by norman deflo jolo, little theatre, smc 7:30p.m. lecture, "latin american black poetry," by amalia de Ia torre, stapelton lounge, smc 
7:30p.m. lecture, "in defense of the spirit'' by h. d. betz, law school, rm. 110 
7:30 p.m. charismatic renewal, "introduction to charismatic renewal", butler bldg. 
8:00 p.m. panel discussion, "contemporary perspctives on marxism," arch aud. 
8: JO p.m. meeting, "charismatic prayer meeting," holy cross hall 
8:30p.m. french culture, "an evening of theatre," stapelton lounge, smc 
St. Mary's receives new visitation hours 
The committee appointed by St. Mary's Board of Regents to initiate IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIII 

Erratmn 

In a column entitled "Poster 
Polling," in Tuesday's Observer, 
columnist Joseph Abell refered to 
the many SBP posters as products 
of the Campus Press. Glen 
Wimmer of Campus Press has 
since informed The Observer that 
most of the posters were not 
handled by his organization, but by 
another -printing company. 
Mr. Abell extends his apologies to Mr. Wimmer and his organization for his faulty assumption and any consequences and implications resulting from it. 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 alternative life styles on campus, has developed an expanded male visitation policy. The visiting hours in the dormitories have been expanded to the following, ef­fective Fall1974: Friday 6-10 p.m., Saturday 1-10 p.m., and Sunday, 1­5 p.m. 
The new parietal hours could be·--===
46556·=====::ii::==-~!P::.I!.:O::.:.s_a~!P~I~O~S8~!P~I~O~S8.:..:!!P~I~O~S:.;8~!:!P:!.IO~S~8~!P!:.!.:Io~s.:a.!!!P!:!:l0~~ 
implemented by March 19, i£11' 
alternative living quarters can be found for those students whose parents request exemption from the new visiting hours. Parents will receive notification of the change on March 6. 
In addition, a new community living experience for seniors will be implemented in Augusta Hall. 


The Windiammer
h e w•I n  Hair Styl for Discriminating Men* Four expertbarber/stylists* Complete line of RK hair care products* New customers  
d•I a  always welcome * Call now for an appointment  
m m  232-6622  
e  All services by Appointment  
r  1637 Lincoln Way W.  


Final candidates chosen 
(continued from page 1) 
He continued that he was "ex­tremely impressed with how they came across at both pre-election forums. They showed that they had thoroughly researched their own program." 
Ed Rahill who finished third in 
the  voting  with  507 tallies  also  
came  out  in  support  of  
McLaughlin.  

"They know what it takes to operate that office. Under McLaughlin • and Flanagan, students will witness a cultural and social rebirth, a new era of student rights," Rahill said. 
He also called an administrative plan to tax student televisions, stereos and popcorn poppers as a "threat to everything that makes dorm life livable" and called for student leadership to foil such a plan. Rahill did not elaborate on the source of his information or in the administrative plan. 
Sixth place finisher Bill Oberhardt declined to support either of the remaining tickets. 
"We're going to remain neutral. We only hope that the small tur­nout for the Oberhardt-Collins ticket isn't a vote of confidence in the Student Affairs Office," Oberhardt stated. 
The tickets of Villarosa-Zimsky and Shankel-McErlean had no comment on the results of the elections. 
Mike Gahagan, however, stated that he thought that he and his running mate Frank O'Connell had "fared as well as could be ex­pected, considering the grass roots low budget campaign that they had run." 
He also stated that he was disappointed that he and his running mate did not get more support for the platform they had proposed, adding that the Notre Dame student body must not be ready yet. 
When asked ·if he intended to endorse any other candidate Gahagan said that he thought that the people who voted for him could make up their own minds. He only hoped that whoever voted for him 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester ex~ept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Wednesday would vote again committee as well as the can­Friday for someone. didates (or their "good clean 
Current Student Body President campaign." Dennis Etienne stated, "I predict SLC run-off the election to be close. Ray and Denis Sullivan, after hearing the Pat are both good." election results indicating that he 
Etienne also voiced his thanks to and Joe Fiorella would be in a run­
.:g 
-
0
.! 
::!:!
0 
.!In 

:§ 
<a 
G 
:2 ·­
0 
.!lit :2
0 
., 
G 

"'tti 
-0 

0..
Oldies 
-· co., Night 
0
-
ar
Tonight 0.. ., 0 
Donee to all your favorites from 9: 
.,
the past, with K.O. as your host. co 
0..
8:30 to 2:30 0 
-· 
co
., 
Also Special Tonight 0 26 i. 
oz. 


BENDER-., a: 
0 
0..





'\~\JB 
-· 
co
., 0 
0.. -• 
Student Union Invites You To 
ACAPULCO 
MARCH 11-18 $270 includes: 
*Round trip airfare via Braniff 727 
* 
8 days, 7 nites at beachfront La Playa Hotel 

* 
1f2 day yacht cruise on Acapulco Bay, with open bar


*Baggage handling &transportation to & from 
Acapulco airport *All taxes and service charges for above 
HURRY! 
SOME SEATS STILL AVAILABLE! 
Questions • call Sween at 3669 
Thursday, February 28, 1974 the observer 
Hynek reports possibility of UFOs 
by Patrick Hanifin Staff Reporter 
Dr. Charles Hynek, Chairman of the Astronomy department at Northwestern University and Director of the new Center for UFO Studies stated last night that one out of every five UFO sightings remain unexplainable by any known scientific laws. "What we have is a lot of incredible stories told by very credible people," Hynek said before a capacity crowd in the Architecture Auditorium. 
Hynek pointed out that "it would be almost impossible for in­telligent life not to exist on any other planet but earth." Out of the 150 billion stars in the galaxy he estimated that as many as eight million might have planets with civilizations more advanced than ours. 
"The big problem," Hynek stated, "is how they could get here from there. We have no way of knowing of course what such hypothetically advanced beingscould do." 
Hynek who has studied UFOs since he was a consultant for the Air Force's Blue Book study in the 1940's, told of several cases which he had investigated but was unable to explain. 
"There was a case in utah last year in which a UFO supposedly left a glowing ring in a field. We analyzed soil from the ring and found it was greatly changed from just a f"ew weeks before, it would not even absorb water like samples from a few feet away," he noted. 
He also pointed out the credibility of many of the ob­
"Their motions seem to show intelligence but when you consider that interstellar trips could take thousands of years it seems like they are wasting a* enormous amount of time investigating us. There are really too many cases, including over 800 of supposed sightings of the creatures them­selves," said Hunek. 
To investigate the unexplained cases Hynek has created a Center for UFO Study staffed by scientists from universities around the country and with a nationwide information-gathering network. 
"We should treat UFOs like any other scientific problem," Hynek concluded, "study the facts and do the hard research rather than burying anything we don't un­derstand." 
~BOAC 
We still have Youth Fares to Europe 
Call Clark 234-2098 and save money. 
servers. "They include astronauts from Gemini 7 and Apollo 11, pilots who tracked UFO's on radar and trained scientists. Gallup polls have shown that as many as 15 million Americans believe they have seen UFOs. All of these people cannot be crooked or cracked." 

When asked specifically about the possible extraterrestrial origin of UFOs Hynek said that there simply was not enough evidence to conclude anything. 

Dr. Charles Hynek, a professor at Northwestern University lec­tured on the credibility of UFOs. He stated that it would .be almost impossible for life not to exist on other planets. (Staff photo by Maria Gallagher) 
Advice for University offenders 
Student legal aid available 
by Joe LaFlare Staff Reporter 

There is now available legal aid advice to all students who are brought before the Dean of Students Office. This aid is available at the Judicial Coor­dinator's Office, which is located on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
According to Mary Jude Bremer, SLC representative of District V, if the student contacts the office early, they will be able to inform the student of the options open to him-her. Bremer men­tioned the options are basically two: 
1.) The Dean of Students, or a hearing officer appointed by the Dean of Students, may hear the case. 
2.) The student may choose to have the University Judicial Board hear the case. 
Bremer would like to emphasizethat all the information which the student provides will be strictly confidential. No files of any sort will be kept and names need not even be known. If the student wishes he can simply eall theOffice at 6413 or preferably come over in person. 
This service is for the benefit of all students, Brewer related, and is to insure their rights as students. These Student Rights are outlined on the last two pages of the Judicial Code, which was sent to students last month by the Dean of Students Office. 
The Judicial Coordinator's Office has already handled many cases and the students involved have been satisfied. "If necessary, the Office has the ability to utilize the resources of the law school," added Bremer. 




men.., hail 1tyling men's hair Stylin 
~n&~ir Btfllin 
WHATEVER THE
.... 



2§§·86oo ~~:..•ef.(]rj_______,
a._~ 


'·· 
~~ "\\s\S 
s\1 

HAIR CARE FOR MEN 
TOWN & COUNTRY MINI MALL--MISHAWAKA,IND. 46544 
student take this action so he can be prepared. Many students just go to the Dean of Students Office and make a hasty decision which they may regret," said Bremer. 
The present Judicial Coordinator is Dave Grimmer. He is appointed each year by the SPB with the approval of the Board of Com­missioners. 
"The advice is available, free of choice, to those who wish to utilize it," said Dennis (H-Man) EtieJU!e, student body president. 
For further information, students may contact the Office at
6413. 

City Center Acting Company 
PERFORMING ARTS SERIES 
0 'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM, SAINT MARY'S COlLEGE 
MARCH 3-8:00 P.M.-MEASURE FOR MEASURE 
MARCH 4-8:00 P.M.-THREE SISTERS 
Tickets: $3.50--Students: $2.00--Reservations:
284-4176 9-4 Monday -Friday 
c Now Renting 
A one and two bedroom furnished apartments
M 
p 

u 
VISIT OUR REPRESENTATIVE IN THE OFF-CAMPUS OFFICE IN 
THE BASEMENT OF THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER
s 

WEDNESDAY 1-S THURSDAY 1-Sv FRIDAY 1-S 
E 
I OR CALL 232-5853 CRESTWOOD MANAGEMENT 
COMPANY 

w "APARTMENTS WTH lHE STUI:ENT IN MIND" 
ON SALE NOW! AT THE 

BOOKSTORE 
Both Tubes 10 oz. 

f.
only $1 19 

24 oz. Bottle Regularly $1 79 Now $1 27 
4 oz. Tube or 7 oz. Lotion Regularly $1 45 each ~~~ \Now only $1 29 each 
I I 


~--~-------------.~----------------------------------------------­
eatroney 
THE OBSERVER Our Great Challenge 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Dan Barrett

Art Ferranti Jerry lutkus 
Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor
Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 
John Kloos 
lee Gentine 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 
Advertising Manager 
Business Manager 
BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Thursday, February 28, 1974 







A Smooth Round 
Round One of the Student Body President elections was held yesterday and the tickets headed by Ray Capp and Pat McLaughlin received enough votes to enter the run-off. 
Round One was distinguished by two factors. First, a high turnout of over 3600 voters. That's an increase of 300 voters over the primary round of last year's election. 
The second element that distinguished Round One from past years was the excellent work and organization of Jerry Samaniego and the Election Committee. The ballotting went off without a hitch. The organization provided coordinators in each hall who monitored the ballot box. 
It also provided for district monitors who covered each SLC District and watched for violations and complaints. 
The system worked well and as of press time, no election violations or problems with the balloting were reported. The counting of the ballots was accomplished in a short time and in a very orderly fashion. 
The success of the first time around is due largely to the work of Samaniego, Bill McLean and the entire Election 
Committee. With luck, Friday's Round Two will be run as smoothly. Jerry Lutkus 
A Good Hint 
The advice of the Judicial Coor­dinator's Office that appears in today's paper is sound advice. Basically, it says that if you have disciplinary proceedings being brought against you, come to this office for help. 
It serves merely as an aid to students . who are having trouble with the University. If you are being brought before the Dean of Students on disciplinary reasons, before you go, make sure you know what avenues are open to you. Use this service and go in prepared. Jerry Lutkus 
Not Our -Poll 
The survey taken last night concerning the John Denver Concert supposedly in The Observer's name is fraudulent. 
Purportedly, we were to have been polling students by phone to determine: 
1) whether you were going to attend the concert, 2) If you were taking a date, and 
3) Why or why not. The Observer 
disclaims any such survey. The Editorial Board 

daanesbury 
L 
Sanchez and Mike Kulczyckl layout: Ginny Faust, Andy Praschak
HMH.. Yt:S, Yt'~
Hft tt'W, 

Day Editors: Pattie Cooney, Tom
THAT5 P9f&CT/
GIVE M& 
YOIJ'RE PRETTY Bundy
ANOTH#?.. 

CUVER. WITH Copy Editors: Terry Keeney and
/UORJ) RJI<. 

tuORP~ trNOW Ann McCarry I 
"RANCOR.~. 

I Typists: John Flanigan, Mary Romer, Barb Norcross, Barb Haug, Tom Modglin 
Compugraphic: Joe Abell Pictures: Albert D'Antonio Night Controller: Joe Abell 
5AY. .. t-&tu! 00 YOU /HINK YOIJ COtJW 1AKG 
TOI10RROW OFF TO H£/..P 11/3 WITH THIS 

SP#OI?.1/'1 IN A REAL B!NO SUR£, PAT. OVER. IT... !T'/:J BE A 
\ 


prrytrudeau 
the observer 
Night Editor: Bill Brink Assistant Night Editors: Dan 
Another issue on campus. But this time it's Domers v.s. Domers, women vs. men. The "Letters to the Editor" column has become a scapegoat for our inability to logically view a problem which touches the most human side of our personalities . This campus will never be a utopia, but the relations between the sexes have a long way to go before we can even consider calling ourselves a community. Perhaps an examination of some of the attitudes might shed some light on the issue. 
It all started with the non-merger. As freshmen, we'd been almost unequivacably assured by uper-classmen that the out-dated tradition of an all male campus would end, one way or another . But the proposed merger with St. Mary's didn't get much further than the highest levels of the respctive administrations, much to the dissap­pointment of both campuses. But weweredestined for co-education, and it came when Badin and Walsh residents sacrificed their homes allowing the "new breed of Domers" to grace the halls with new sights and sounds. Now it might seem ludicrous to recall that many (note my use of qualifiers) of us actually believed our social lives would im­prove with the addition of 350 women. But optimistic attitudes have scored miraculous victories in the stadium and the ACC, so we felt rather safe. 
But a funny thing happened. On the first day of classes of ND's new era, there were noticably less girls around campus than the previous year. The ST. Mary's gids were forced to pay $100 a credit hour to take classes over here, which could not count toward their major. The new women's dorms had card locks, a fact which brought out the previous semester near exams when people are too hassled to 
remember. To all too many Domers, especially Badin and Walsh exiles, it didn't seem to jive with the spirit of ND thatgirls~erebehind locked doors. Doubtless, they provided security from South Bend's worst in the early morning hours. And they gave a slight relief to the streams of curious males who were said to parade thrugh during our first semester of co-education. It was true that one could gain en­trance by someone he knew, but that hardly lent itself to a free social atmosphere. 
It's not hard tccomprehendwhat happened to the first generatioon of girls. The lucky 350, overwhelmed by the friendly advances of 6,000 plus men, couldn't possibly accomodate all those who asked them out for the game Friday or Saturday night. The men, too frequently turned down, quickly lost their pride, their great expectations of a "new ND", and the girls earned several labels, most notably ND bitch, one which for the most part has successfully been passed on to the girls of current vintage. Not that many of them didn't actually earn the title. Many promises had been made by girls to show up at a party, promises which either were completely unrealized, or the girls showed, had a beeer or two, and soon left. A virtual slap in the face to any self respecting host. 
f can only speculate as to the girls' general opinions of we, the male population, but surely most girls have had to fight off more than one aggressive friend or date. 
So where are we? People walk between classes with their head and eyes averted, pretending the other sex doesn't exist. Guys who strike up relationships with girls are subtley but definitely chastised by their friends for not being "part of the gang". Girls casually walking through guys' dorms complain of being stared at. I don't quite un­derstand their complaint. All rare occurrences command one's at­tention. 
And the girls are still locked behind their dorm doors, 24 hours a day. 
Both sexes complain of inadequate social activities, but that's as far as it goes. Only the "experts" have enough small talk in their repertoire to be able to spend 3 hours at a party, or anywhere for that matter, actually saying nothing. That leaves the rest of us either uncomfortable, bored or both. Why is there such a taboo against the discussion of intelligent topics at our parties, topics other than the latest sports miracle? We're intelligent, sensitive people, or we wouldn't be here.. 
The answer lies in recognizing what we as people want for a social atmosphere, and making constructive attempts to achieve it. No magic renovation of LaFortune or any other place will solve our problems. The most unlikely spot on campus, the library, is our most active socializing area, as the Scholastic poignantly pointed out in their pictorial essay last semester. What we need is a change of attitude. What we want is what we get. 
'WE SAVE OUR WORST PUNISHMENT FOR YOUR TYPE, COMRADE-WE MAKE YOU RICH AND FA 0 ! I 
Thursday, February 28, 1974 the observer 

granted, strange as it may sound while I became the culprit and target of your men. 
I am appalled at the language used in the presence of a lady, by oldeer men and question its frequency ... 
I take offense to the abusive manner in whch I was questioned and the descriptives used against my name ... 
Moreoveerr, I believe that such incidents infringing on the basic rights of students such as I should not be tolerated. I also feel that it is my duty to expose these 
Liturgical Hints 
Dear Editor: 
I attended the twelve-fifteen "mass"at Sacred Heart Church on Sunday, and a few suggestions which the celebrant, Fr. Toohey, may find helpful, occurred to me. 
First of all, I think Fr. Tooheyshould try and engage a location which would better accomodate 
not only the present crowd, but also the increase in numbers which would presumably ensue. The 
A.C.C. would, in my opinion, be the best spot since it already has ex­cellent lighting; a suitable sound system and stage could easily be acquired. It would be a sort of theater-in-the-round, and there would be a more uniform dispersal of that energy (a mixture of love, humor, and intense social concern) which perpetually emanates from his very person. 
You know, just as an aside here, I think it's a shame that this happening which takes place weekly at Notre Dame under Fr. Toohey's benevolent guidance has thus far gone unnoticed and failed to catch the roving eye of television talentscouts and Ted Mack's boys. I'm sure that if it were aired nationally it would preempt the top spot in the ratings--at least among the soap operas. Sam Ervin, Watergate, the energy crisis, and Walter Cronkite would all take the back seat when the time came for "Happy Hour." 
But I'm getting carried away. For the present I should be more realistic and less optimistic. An alternative suggestion is to move the gathering to Corby's or the Library where the atmosphere would be more congenial to its purpose. At Sacred Heart, one is reminded every now and then that meaningful experience for me, and I could contemplate the full social relevance of your abysmal profundities. Thank you for your time and right on, brother! 
Peace, Love, and Happiness, 
Beppo Leonard 
M• • 
ISSI nQ
Furnl·ture 

Dear Editor: 
Several cushions were removed from the new couches and chairs of the Keenan Hall lobby one night a few weeks ago. Being optimistic, we at first assumed that someone had just borrowed them for some purpose and would return them. They are still missing. 
It was last year that Keenan and Stanford Halls decided to refurnish its common lobby. The lobby was then only a noisy tile floor and a few pieces of shabbyfurniture. At one time, there had been more furniture, but over the years it had gradually been removed by those who thought they needed the couches and chairs more than the two halls did. 
Both Keenan and Stanford feared that new furniture in the lobby might meet the same fate. However, in an effort to make the halls look a little more livable, in order to make the lobby a little more presentable to parents and other visitors, the two halls decided to take the chance on restocking the lobby. So last spring, wall-to-wall carpeting was laid, and this past fall, new couches, chairs and tables were brought in. The furniture was strung with wire cable and bolted to the floor. Although it looked bad, at least whole couches woudn't be escaping in the middle 
one is, after all, in a church; and . of the night. this tends to bring me down a little With the new furniture, suddenly and spoil my otherwise ecstatic students were sitting down in the high. In a bar, we could even have lobby to talk with friends or to a few drinks at the beginning while study. The lobby became we're meeting the other beautiful something more than just a people and before settlin' down to corridor to ramble through on the groove to the tunes and watch the way to and from the dining hall. skits, etc. In addition, we would But then the cushions disap­have the added advantage of peared. The maids in all the halls beeing able to drop that mild on campus were asked to keep an 
facade of "christian worship" eye out for them. They would be 
which is even more boring than it easy to spot: new, green and 
is antiquated. yellow vinyl, "Keenan" written on 
Well, I hope you'll consideer the back of each one. But they implementing these little weren't to be found. inovations, Fr. Toohey; it would So perhaps they have made their make your "mass" a much more way to some off-campus dwelling. 
misplaced cogs in your system, not calling for anyone's jobs butPerhaps they are now making the rather with thehope that yo~ canlives of some our expatriated restore some class and justice in­brethren more livable. But, if order to build a more effectivewhoever is responsible might structuree.
reconsider their action, we in Respectfully,Keenan would appreciate getting our cushions back. . . Return in the John F. Gelson
stealth of the night if you prefer. No one will ask any questions. We know our hall doesn't look like much: an elongated 
Save Our

blockhouse on the North Quad, square and boring. But we do try our best. And we would appreciate VIP's having our ravished living room 
Dear Editor:put back together again. 
After repeatedly seeing various As always with respect Student Union and Student The Keen~n Hall staff ' Government dignitaries gracingthe front rows of such events as concerts and the recent Marcel Marceau performances, I feel thatOpen Letter to I must speak out on a matter of great concern to the student body. Knowing as we all do the vital
SMC Security 

function our student leaders perform and therefore howDear Editor: necessary it is to ensure the health I am writing to you in regard to and well-being of these public­the confrontation that occured spirited office holders, I would likebetween myself and certain in­to suggest that a change be madedividuals on your staff Febryary in the practice of giving the above 17. I feel this incident should be mentioned functionaries com­brought to your attention in order plimentary tickets for the front to assure that such gross offenses seats at many events. Such aagainst other students will not practice is literally putting all ourbecome a structured part of your eggs in one basket, for if some program. 
catastrophe were to befall the front On the day aforementioned, I rows of seats, such as the was questioned by a hall monitor floodlights exploding, or the ceiling concerning my whereabouts. In a falling or a performer with arather orderly and sophisticated machine gun going berserk, the manner she questioned my elite of our Student Union andcompanion and myself. However, Student Government would be lost. 
upon arrival by members of your What a terrible thing to befall the staff we became subjected to a student body. No more dedicated,barrage of accusations and ob­hard working unpaid public ser­scenities all i the presence of my vants. The entire campus would be young lady friend. 

thrown into turmoil, for goneAfter having to listen to such a would be our fearless leaders,display of directly offensive Naturally then it is in the interest language, I was taken to your of the students to prevent such aoffice, where I received a courtesy calamity. Therefore, I suggestthat was not evident in any fashion that the SU limit the number ofby your staff. After having you complimentary tickets they giveintelligently listen to my side of the away in the first few rows. Onestory, I was released, though I had fairly easy way to accomplish thisalready been judged as a criminal would be to sell at least some ofof some kind and treated as such these tickets to the student body atby the two officers invovlved. 
large. After all, if disaster did It seems that perhaps there is strike, they're only students, andindeed a tragic flaw in your system at least some of the crowding onsomewhere when a person is campus will be relieved.
subject to such degradation by your staff. However, I must 

William A. Phillip
comment that while such obscene and vile language direected at me was in the presence of my lady friend, her complete innocence of 
Time for
such activity was taken for 
Truce 

Editor: 
Wednesday's Observer carried a very perceptive opinion .:;arding the failure of true co-education at Notre Dame. J. Barry O'Neil's description of the current social attitude as "competitive" is ab­solutely correct but also a little understated. What all of us are trying to live with is not just competition, it's downright war! 
That this campus should become a battlefield is truly saddening. Who wins when every weekend cattle calls and heavy breathing blare from an unidentified Zahm window'? Who really loses when SMC and ND coeds leave a party after a few drinks because the men who invited them do not suit their select tastes? 
Cattlemen, it was almost 
'THOSE OF US WHO WORK IN WASHINGTON GET A DISTORTED VIEW OF WHAT AMERICA IS 
humorous the first time but it's
REALLY LIKE •• .' The Huntsville (Ala.) Speech. . . 
merely a stupid insult now. I realize the original complaint of~ended you _but possibly you misunderstood It. But there is no misunderstanding how disgusted you really are with women if you continually compare them with cows. Come out once in a while and you will find a few of us who are human and act it. Party­hoppers, where are your manners and more importantly, where i~ your compassion? Someday there will be no more partying and it will be YOU sitting alone in your rooms because no one gives a damn about your feelings either. 
These words are not my private lecture proving how virtuous and concerned I am. These words express feeelings I believe hun­dreds of people share right now. There are thousands of others capable of feeling the same way if only we show concern and un­derstanding for one another. 
~ am not the only one disap­pomted by these incidents and the many others like them. Among the men of Notre Dame are some fine individuals I am proud to call my friends; it never occured to me to consider them enemies. These friends and casual acquaintances as well as men I've never met are not people who foster alienation or frustrate co-opeeration. There counterparts exist in the many women who see men as more than objects to be dangled or collected, or as prospective husbands. 
These men and women realize that being of a different sex has nothing to do with superiority or inferiority. They see competition betweeen the sexes as something artificial and superfluous to a good relationship, at whatever level two or more people choose to relate. 
EVERYONE at du lac could 
enjoy a relationship at a higher level than this ridiculous war that keeps us in our rooms writing anonymous letters that strike out left and right but in the end only turn inward and increase the writer's bitterness. 
Come out of the trenches. There's no better time than spring. 
Deborah de Lorenzo 
Many Thanks 
Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
Rev. Richard Conyers, C.S.C. 
Patrick Boyle 
John Thornton 
Charles Nau 
David Kaminski 
Martin Hagan 
Allen Thomas 
Charles Cardillo 
Bernard King 
Gentlemen: 
I was pleased to see your letter to 
the Editor of the Observer. I want 
to thank you very much for the 
direction you have taken in your 
endeavor to control student 
misbehaviour in our dining halls. 
I think that your action shows 
maturity and understanding. 
We have maintained that it is 
almost impossible ·for 
management to "police" student 
conduct in the dining rooms. I~ 
student conduct in dining rooms is 
to be improved, it must come from 
within the student group itself. 
Your decision indicates that you 
are willing to take positive action 
on improving the general situation 
for all students. I comment you for 
your approach to the problem! 
Your resolution is better than any 
solution we could inaugurate 
without your help. 
Thank you once again.
E.T. Price 
Up on Life 
Dear Mr. King, 
Reading your "Abortion: 
Justifiable article I found both 
interesting and reassuring. 
appreciated the efforts you're 
afforded an issue Which should be 
a· dear concern for all of us. · 
·Thanks for your rewealing the 
personal reflections and ex­
periences you did. 
Bill Shiel, Jr. 



the observer Thursday, February 28, 1974 
To probe University 




Accreditation tea:ms arriving 
by Chris O'Brien Staff Reporter 
From March 18 to 20, the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools will visit Notre Dame to decide whether Notre Dame retains its ac­creditation with the Association. "It's a standard cycle, occuring every ten years to what are called 'mature' universities," said University Provost Fr. James Burtchaell. 
The North Central Association sends out a team of about ten members to probe into any aspect of Notre Dame they choose. The accreditation team will examine files talk with students and professors and attend classes as part of the process. 
"Not much can be said con­
cretely in advance since we .don't 
know which departments they will 
choose to probe." said Fr. Burt­
chaell. "Obviously, they cannot 
check an entire university of this 
size in three days, so they will pick 
different places to check." 
David Sparks, director of Memorial Library stated, "What they basically want to know about the library, is whether or not you have a collection of books large enough to support your instruction. 
They will check such things as doctoral dissertations, past and present. They are pretty thorough.'' 
Bernard Waldman, dean of the 
Von Braun to give lecture 
Dr. Wernher Von Braun, who pioneered the development of rockets and played a significant role in the United States' space program for 25 years, will discuss "Practical Uses of Space for Mankind" in the third lecture of the University of Notre Dame's College of Engineering Centennial Lecture Series. The public talk will be held at 8 p.m. on Friday, March 1, at the CCE auditorium. 
Currently vice-president­engineering and development with Fairchild Industries, Dr. Von Braun served with the National Aeronautics and Space Ad­ministration <NASA) until 1972. From 1970-1972, Dr. Von Braun was NASA's deputy associate administrator responsible for planning efforts for future United States space missions. 
The German born scientist directed NASA's George C. Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama from 1960­1972. During his term as director, 
TONITE at the 


SENIOR BAR 
Especially for the Girls: 
ICE CREAM NITE! 
All lee Cream Drinks 50~ 
including: 

*Chocolate Dreams *Grasshoppers 
*Brandy Alexanders *Creamsides 
*Golden Cadillacs *Pink Squirrels 
*Chocolate Soldiers *Velvet Hammers & many more! 
21 ID Required. 
We'll be open before and after Saturday's basketball game to celebrate the NCAA bid 
the center developed launch 
vehicles for all U.S. space flight" 
including the manned lunar lan­
ding program and developed the 
manned space station Skylab and 
the Lunar Roving Vehicle, which provided transportation for two astronauts on the lunar surface. In addition, the center began studies on advanced space transportation systems <Shuttle ). 
Dr. Von Braun began ex­perimenting with rockets as a student assistant to Prof. Hermann Oberth of the Berlin Institute of Technology in 1930. In 1934, he recieved his Ph.D. in physics from· the University of Berlin. His rocket research led to a position with the German Ordnance Department and he served as director of the German army I portion of the Rocket Center at I Peenemuende until1945. There he : directed the team of researchers i which developed the V-2 rocket of, World War II fame. Dr. Von Braun College of Science said, "Each college had to collect a massive list of facts and data about each department. Included are such things ·as minutes of college council meetings and departmental 
meetings." 
Dean Thomas Murphy, of the College of Business Administration explained, "There is no standard procedure for the method of reaccrediting, it depends entirely on the committee. However, since the College of Businness Administration, the Law School, and the Architecture School, all have their own private accrediting association, it is possible that this committee will not probe our departments too hard. But that is not to say that they wouldn't or couldn't." 
The Dean of the Law School, Thomas Shaffer commented that the law school is not unaffected by the accreditation. "We expect a visit from the American Bar Association next year, so we are involved only peripherally. In fact the association is only concerned with the way we affect the un­dergrads," he said. 
"This association is checking into the university as a whole," said Joseph Hogan, Dean of the College of Engineering. He further stated, ''And when they find a problem, they will focus on it and make recommendations to us about how to prevent it or cure it." 
Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, Frederick Crosson 

remarked, "These committees 
usually probe into five basic areas; 
finance, student affairs, the 
library, the curriculum, and governance of the university. 
Really all we can do is provide the 
statistics for them and then wait 
for them to come to us." 
"A good team will ask you why 
you are doing what you are, why you are different from other · universities, and other questions along those lines," he continued. The association is important to students because it guarantees that the school is 'licensed'. It provides students with the knowledge that a particular school maintains certain minimum standards." 
Crosson is himself a member of the North Central Association, as is Hogan. Dean Murphy is a pastmember of the association. 
Crosson said about his mem-· ~========================~ 
bership, "It is most helpful to me because when I go out to other colleges, I learn about mistakes that we want to avoid, and also about improvements we could use here." 
Murphy calls the reaccreditation process an l:lxcellent medium for an "interchange of ideas." Fr. Burtchaell called the process, "healthy, because people who are unused to Notre Dame and !therefore have a fresh look at the place and we get new comments on how to improve our university." 
and his colleagues surrendered to the U.S. Army in 1945 and came to the United States to direct high altitude firings of the V-2 at the White Sands (New Mexico) Missile Range. From 1950-1960 he was associated with the U.S. Navy's Ordnance Department at Hunt­sville, Ala. 
Explore beneath the surface. You'll discover a whole shop of organic foods. The bounty of Mother Earth. Real honey. Grains. Unadulterated and healthy foods. Stored for you in this underground domain. 

Featuring Dannon Yogurt 
8 OZ. SIZE 
Plain  31  cents  
Vanilla  31  cents  
Fruit Flavors  JJ cents  
I  


SWING INTO SPRING ON ANEW BIKE 
90 Day Terms-No Interest 305 L McKinley Ave. Mishawaka 256 1330 
J.l Foreign Car Parts Co. 
~)Parts & accessories for imported carR.:a:., for all makes at lowest preices 
Distributor 

'************************* 
:For NO Students, Faculty & Staff 10 * 
* percent discount with I D & pur-~ ! chase of $10 or more. * 
************************. 
215 Dixie Way N Roseland So. Bend 
pHQNE: 
272-71 87 



c Now Renting 
A one and two bedroom furnished apcnments
M 

p 
VISIT OUR REPRESENTATIVE IN THE OFF-CAMPUS OFFICE IN THE BASEMENT OF THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CEN­u s TER. 
WEDNESDAY 1-S THURSDAY 1-5 FRIDAY 1-5 

I 
v OR CALL 232-5853 CRESTWOOD MANAGEMENT 
COMPANY 

w 
E "APARTMENfS WITH THE STUDENT IN MIND" 

100 Center Complex Mishawaka 
In the Old Kamm's Brewery 
LONDON. PARIS, ANTWERP. ROTIERDAM. SYDNEY. MELBOURNE, TORONTO. MONTREAL. VANCOUVER. NEW YORK. BOSTON. MIAMI. PHILIDELPHIA, CHICAGO. DETROIT. PITTSBURGH. HOUSTON, DALLAS. PHOENIX. SAN fRANCISCO SFATTl. f l('IS .&"'G!;;LE~ 
• 

Thursday, February 28, 1974 the observer 7 .. l 
j 
Improvements planned for Angela 
by Tom Russo 
Staff Reporter 

Plans are being finalized to improve the flow of traffic at the congested intersection at-Michigan Street <U.S. 31) and Angela Blvd., according to Rollin E. Farrand, Director of the Department of Public Works of South Bend. 
The proposed improvement requires the acquisition of a strip of land approximately 12 feet wide and 400 feet long, presently part of the Notre Dame golf course, to be used as a right turn lane. 
"A contract will be signed with Notre Dame this spring at the beginning of construction season," said the department's traffic engineer. "The project should be complete this summer in time for the upcoming football season." 
Father Jerome Wilson, Notre Dame's Vice President for Business Affairs, said that the Department of Public Works will replace the elm tress which presently lie on the property and move the fence along the golf course in exchange for the small parcel of land. 
"Often you have to wait through four lights going west on Angela," commented Father Wilson. "Hopefully people will leave Notre Dame in a little better frame of mind if they don't have to wait so long." 
South Bend's traffic engineer stated that the worst congestion is caused by vehicles turning from west-bound Angeela to north­bound Michigan. To correct this, Angela will be divided into four lanes in each direction: right turn, straight, left turn, and opposite direction. A wider turn radius will be constructed on the north east and southwest corners to improve traffic flow. Right turn lanes will also be constructed onMichigan St. 
To improve left turns, he plans call for new signals with a "quad left turn movement", in which all left turns are protected against on­coming traffic. Left turns are now temporarily corrected only on 
Michigan  St.  by  a  "one-turn"  
arrow.  
The  avP.rage daily  volume  on  



Notre Dame Golf Course 
PROPOSED WIDENING 
Angela Blvd. 




SLC positions determined 
(continued from page 2) 
off Friday for the SLC represen­tative from the fourth district, released the following statement; "I want to thank all the residents of the halls within my district that 
voted for me today_-I am thankful for their support and I hope they will support me again on Friday. 
Joe Fiorella responded by stating, "I am happy to be in it. I feel I've got a very good chance. The person who gets Chuck Wilson's vote will win. 
Sullivan had polled 255 votes to Fiorella's 199. Wilson received 125 tallies. Sullivan and Fiorella's votes totaled up to more than 50 percent putting them into the run­off. 
Other SLC races 

In the other SLC races, Martin O'Shea won the off-campus seat <District 1), defeating Doug Stevenson 70 to 57. In District Two, Darlene Palma received 269 votes to Phyllis Mosley's 181. 
Brian Hegarty notched the District Three seat when his 373 votes barely made it over the necessary 50 percent mark. In that race, Phil Mancini polled 143 votes, Mike Gassman had 126 votes and Stanley White tallied 94 votes. 
The District Five seat on the SLC 
went to Thomas Clark who out-

FANTASTIC r,;:~ PLANET ~=-/.· ~~~~ 
"f'ff"1.: (· ,,..,,•• ;· :•,:· :-:;:-.cf•,£;~-:~l ·: ·, o\tA·~. ·. ; •• _;;!,.!i. ·m=~-~-.:-;. :!S f.:.•:s ~;'.eo."*oAL 

polled John Farrell, Jr., 378 to 296. Art Derse took the District 6 position in collecting 452 votes to Rob Tully's 297. 
Senior Class Fellow 

In the election for Senior Class Fellow, Judge John Sirica received the top spot with 255 votes. Elliot Richardson took second place with 170 votes and Groucho Marx, Woody Allen, and Kurt Vonnegut finished third, fourth, and fifth respectively. 
The acceptance procedure will begin immediately with the top candidate being notified and given a chance to claim the honor. If the 
candidates declines highest vote-getter is until a Senior Fellow mined. 
the next 
contacted 

is deter­
WSND AM-640 
presents 

Notre Dame Hockey vs Wisconsin 
Friday, Mar. 1 Face-off 7:30pm
Sat. Mar. 2 
LIVE FROM MADISON I 

"An Evening with 

STEPHEN STILLS and 

his very special guest MARIA MULDAUR" 


Valparaiso Univ.. Gymnasium Rf. 30 (half an hour away) Wednesday, March 6, 8 pm $5°0 in advance $6°0 at the door 
FOR MAIL ORDER: State number desired, and 
make check or money order payable to 
Valparaiso Univ. Student Senate. Send to: 
Stephen Stills Show, 54 College Ave., Valparaiso, 
Indiana, 46383. Enclose self-addressed stamped 
envelope. {No orders accepted postmarked after 
Mon., March 4.) 
Michigan St. is 24,000 vehicles, according to department sources. "The volume on Angela Blvd. is more difficult to determine because it depends largely upon events at Notre Dame -but the average daily volume is about 10,000 vehicles per day." 
The intersection has an above 
average accident rate, most of 
which involve negotiating turns. 
Definite plans have been discussed with Notre Dame since last June. "The University has 'been very cooperative", com­
,mented Mr. Farrand. 


----. 
8 the observer Thursday, February 28, 1974 




'Big A'-an upperclass freshman 
by Greg Corgan the only coach who wasn't con­fidence now," offered Adrian. stantly bothering me to go to his I'm playing like I should be school, and this impressed me." playing, and I'm more relaxed
They claim he's only a fresh­
"Most importantly," he con­now. At the beginning I wasman. However, more than a few 
tinued, "If it wasn't for Bob thinking a lot and worrying aboutfans have gone scurrying through 
Whitmore, Collis Jones, Austin mistakes, but now I'm not, and I'm their programs during a game just 
tarr, and John Shumate I wouldn't just going out there and playingto make sure. 
have come here. I had played my game."
But what they find hardly basketball with all of them before, "I've got to give a lot of credit to
justifies their doubts, for three­
and I trusted them a lot. They told coach Phelps and his assistants.
fourths of the way down, next to 
me how it was here, and how at Coach is aggressive, and he'sthe numeral 44, the card reads: 
times it would be tough made me a better ballplayer by"Adrian Dantley--forward--6-5, 
athletically, academically, and getting on me, pushing me, and225, Freshman." 
The "Big A," as he likes to be socially, but that you'd just have to even hollering at me sometimes." called, has played like a seasoned stick in there. They encouraged For Adrian, basketball wasn't 
me to come here, and I respect always his life. In fact, he stillveteran all year, and his current 
18.3 points and 9.4 rebounds per their opinions a lot." played tight end on the football 
game averages certainly bear this "I like it here," he went on, "but team, even in high school. it's sure a bit adjustment from "When I was growing up I played 
out. But to Adrian it comes as no 
surprise. Washington, D.C. It's tough on more football than basketball. But freshmen adjusting to college, and when I was about 11 I became
"I don't want to sound cocky or 
people know what we're going more interested in basketball, andanything, but I thought I could play 
major college basketball through as freshmen, but it's our from then on, I don't even know anywhere. It was just a matter of responsibility to get along, and I why, I've just liked to play having the confidence in myself." just tell myself I have to stick with basketball. Still, I enjoyed playing "From watching Notre Dame it." football, and I even received about Adrian is candid about the fresh­15 scholarship offers for it, but I
last year, I had a lot of confidence 
that I could start here. I knew they man rule, and tends to agree with decided it would have been too 
needed help at the forwards. I saw Digger's philosophy. much." 
Shumate and Brokaw getting "I agree with coach Phelps that One person who helped Dantley double-teamed all the time, and I 
freshmen shouldn't be allowed to with his decision was his mother, felt I could help, especially play,to the extent that Notre Dame with whom he is very close. rebounding and defense." is tougher than a lot of other "I'm an only child," says A.D. 
The Irish almost didn't get schools, Maryland for instance. "and I've been alone with my Dantley's help though, at least not It's tough for a freshman to adjust mother all my life. She's been a here academically whereas it's not big help to me-even when I was
without some competition. 
"I had 300 scholarship offers," so at a lot of other places. But even trying to decide what school to allowed Adrian, "and I had though I agree there shouldn't be a come to. She knew what was best freshman rule, I wouldn't have for me, but she let me decide for
narrowed it down to either North 
Carolina State, Minnesota, come here if they weren't following myself. She was glad I picked 
Maryland, or Notre Dame. There the rule, even it it would have been Notre Dame although she was 
were a couple of reasons why I a good school for me to attend." leaning toward Minnesota. But 
now
ended up picking Notre Dame. For The Irish are glad they folllow I think she's happy I came for rebounds. Here I've become 

one, it was the only school that the freshman rule, too, especially here." "It has definitely been a strain more of a complete player." 
showed interest in me of late. In his last two ball games, Undoubtedly there are a lot of for me keeping up academically " 
academically, and actually had me for instance, the "Big A" has Irish basketball fans who share her explained Dantley. "I think it'•s Still, Dantley points out that he
accounted for 67 points. sentiments, but sometimes they tougher on basketball players than 
go through an interview. For has some important aspects of his 
another thing coach Phelps was "I'm playing with more con-tend to overlook the academic football players sincewe'reon the game to work on during the off­road a lot more. It's been tough, 
season.
but I'll do OK at the end."

Pat Novitzki: the shot-blocker 
"Shumate, Clay, and Brok have "I've got to work more on my 
definitely helped me in the stamina and my endurance, and during the summer this is what I'll by John Moushigian is not as big as they come, but he is Novitzki is determined to get a classroom, especially Shumate be concerned with. I'll also work

a bruising body-checker. Pat says well-rounded education and is because we're pretty close. In 
Although the Notre Dame fact, another reason I came here on being quicker on my feet."
"every player has some asset that currently enrolled in the College of

hockey team has been going was because of Shu. He influenced
he contributes to a team. I don't Business Administration, but he Opposing coaches no doubt
through a disappointing season, me a lot, like David Thompson of
have the scoring of a Bumbacco also plans to get into St. Mary's delight at the prospect of having to
one of the bright spots on the squad ND State, but Shu influenced me
or the hard shot of a DeLorenzi, but Education program. "What I want face an even quicker Dantley, but
has been the crowd-pleasing play the most."
I do feel that my body checking to do after I graduate," said Pat Adrian works for the team as wellof Pat Novitzki. Novitzki and adds to the team. I don't have "is to teach business and coach as himself, and when he speaks of
sidekick Mike Tardani are John Shumate has been a big
great speed so I have to rely on hockey on the high school level an eventual rematch with the
regarded as one of the best shot­influence for Dantley on the court
checking to slow down a faster ~omewhere in Minnesota. Hockey Bruins of UCLA, he displays un­
blocking and penalty-killing as well, especially since Adrian
opponent." ts really booming in Minnesota and freshman-like confidence.
combinations in the WCHA. has now been able to change his
Recalling the day he was I want to become part of it."

"Mike does all the dirty work," style of play.
promoted to the varsity· he says, "If we play UCLA in the finals 
says Novitzki, "We set up in an !­The 4,493 fans that pack the ACC

"Coach Smith called six of us into and do everything the way coach
formation and his job is to go after for an Irish hockey game are glad · "This is the first time I've ever
his office and said there was room Phelps want us to do it, instead of
the puck carrier and force a bad that Pat Novitzki has chosen to I played organized basketball facing
on the varsity for two players, but in our own way, then we can whip 
pass. My work is to anticipate the become a part of Notre Dame's the basket," said Adrian. "I had
that they would be doing just 'em."
bad pass and intercept it. When I team. For two more years it will always been the biggest guy out on
penalty killing. When I was

steal a pass people tend to give me be_ v:ell worth the price .of ad-~he court, and I was always put For Adrian Dantley confidence is 
chosen I was just happy to be on

all the credit, but without Mike's mtsswn to watch Novitzkt's out-mside, underneath the bucket to the name of his game, and a
the varsity so soon."

effort it wouldn't be possible." standing checking, shot-blocking grab rebounds. Here I like going veteran rookie, so far, he's made it 
Pat is also happy with his choice 

Novitzki is too modest, and and penalty-killing performances. inside and outside and shooting, pay off.
of Notre Dame over the manyunderplays his role, but any Irish schools that recruited him.
hockey fan will testify to his puck­
stealing ability. "I have no regrets coming here," says Pat, "even though I
But Pat can't give anyone else· 

Wrestlers get ready for NCAA's 
haven't played as much as I would credit for his checking and shot­have liked so far. I've been

blocking skills. "The key to shot­by Hal Munger undefeated this season, his latest regional with Slippery Rock
playing on a regular shift for theblocking," says Pat, "is to go down conquest being an 11-0 shutout of College and Cleveland State vying 

in front of the shot at the right time last two weeks and I'm determined Drake University handled the Don Bonner. That sets his mark at 
and distance. If you hesitate even to have this continue to next year." Irish wrestling team over the nine pins, two shutouts, and two for the team title. The other en­for a split second and let the puck As early as his freshman year in weekend 22-14 but the loss was not tries to the Nationals come from 
forfeits. Since he has spent two league competition and the
rise, you might get injured. So far high school Novitzki had decided to as disappointing as it might have 
days in the infirmary this week Western regionals. Drake is a topattend Notre Dame. Jim Cordes, a
I've been pretty successful at been because coach Fred Pechek 
with influenza, Mike's strength contender out West.
'72 Irish hockey graduate and also decided of his

a voiding injury from blocked to save one best and timing may be somewhat off.
from Farmington, Minnesota, was wrestlers for this weekend's

shots." If he does win the regional, it will Dan Heffernan at 118 was taken
feeling homesick his freshman

Having gone to a very small Regional NCAA tournament in be the second time, as Mike won it 3-1 by his Drake opponent but will 
school, Farmington High in year and asked his brother and Pat Cincinatti. Dave Boyer did not in 1972. He did not compete last have a chance to show what he can 
to come up to ND for a visit. While

Minnesota, which had trouble wrestle against the highly year. Chief competitor for the big do in the big meets this weekend. 
getting enough players for the Pat was here he played in a pick up regarded Drake squad and had he 

man's title will be Clarion's Chuck Steve Moylan and AI Rocek were hockey team, Pat saw a great deal hockey game with Coach Smith competed the results might have Cory ea. both beaten at Drake,the latter by
and many of the varsity players. 

of ice time and this, he feels, has been different. just two points on a reversal in the 
When he returned home Pat sent a Another Irishman who had been 
helped him considerably in last 27 seconds of the match. Both
thank you card to the coach, who in The 1973-74 squad finished their counted upon in the regionals is 142
developing his skills. A defen­AI and Steve compete this 
~-turn wrote back and said that he dual meet season 10-7-1, one vic­pounder Dave Boyer who entered
semen in high school, he found the weekend.
hoped he would be able to recruit ·tory short of the all-time best ND the hospital this week for knee
change to wing at ND difficult. 

Pat when he finished high school. wrestling season mark, an en­ligament surgery. He may be in a
"When I first came here," states Dick Scheetz and Rich Gilloon
couraging showing for rookie cast for some time. His record was
Pat, "I worked with the J.V.'s for "When I first came to ND my tied their opponents from Drake 
goal was to make it athletically coach Pechek. The Irish have 17-4-3 as he did not wrestle this past Gilloon
the first month as a defensemen. while John Dowd won 5-l. 
and academically," states Pat. strong hopes of advancing beyond weekend to save that knee.
But after our first game I was and Dowd both wrestle at Cin­
promoted to the varsity and But to tell the truth, I was really the regionals this weekend with the cinatti Technical College Thur­
Fritz Bruening beat Jim Berry 2­

switched to wing. The change was worried about my ability to do the performances of several fine sday, Friday, and Saturday.
1 Saturday and has a goodchance to 
school work, rather than whether matmen.
difficult because I worked hard on be one of the three wrestlers who Despite the setbacks, Notre
developing my defensive skills and I'd be able to make the varsity. 

Highlighting Notre Dame's list advance to the National Finals at Dame's wrestlers will be trying for Well, now I'm a sophomore and Ilet my offensive game slack off." 
Novitzki's 5-10 175 pounds frame know I can do the academic work." of hopefuls is heavyweight Mike Iowa State March 14,15,16. There the best for first year coach Fred 
Fanning. The big junior has gone are 42 teams entered in this Pechek. 





