OD The IDslde 
Elton tickets 
... page 2 
Women's Athletics 
•••page 9 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Monday, October 21, 1974
Vol. IX, No. 38 
Request undergrad priorities committee 
Trustees hear student proposal 
by Pat Hanifin Staff Reporter 

The entire Board of Trustees listened to seven student leaders last Friday including Student Body President Pat McLaugglin, SBVP Frank Flanagan, and Observer Editor-in-Chief Tom Drape explain student proposal to create a committee to investigate five undergrad priorities. This proposal was based on a 70 page report to the board which examined undergraduate academics, coeducation, finances, residentiality, and student life. 
After extended discussion, the trustees agreed to keep their student affairs committee in charge of handling the proposal. Student Affairs Com­mittee Chairman Thomas Carney reiterated his statement made last Thursday that the committee would give the matter serious consideration and reply to the students in about two weeks. "We need a little time to con­sider the problem," Carney said. 
Mr. Edmund A. Stephan, chairman of the , Board of Trustees . commented after Friday's meeting that "there seems to be a general sentiment among the trustees in favor of the proposal or something like it which would functi~n in conjuction with the student affairs committee of the board." 
Stephen said that he was "impressed 

with the desirability of the general 
idea" and that the major difficulty for 
the trustees was a fear of "excessive 
proliferation of committees.". 
Stressing that the student affairs 
committee would decide the matter, he 
expected it would be resolved by 
linking the proposed priority com­mittee to subcommittees of ·student affairs. 
Also in the student delegation were Robert Howl, chairman of the Hall President's Council, Patrick Burke, Student Union Director, Ann McCarry, Observer contributing editor, and Darlene Palma, Student Life Council representative. After presenting their proposal to the student affairs com­mittee of the trustees Thursday they met with the full board at the Center for Continuing Edication for a question and answer discussion on Friday. 
Trustee Paul C. Helmuth explained that the student affairs committee would probably divide into sub­committees to cover each of the five topics in the student proposal. Students, faculty, and administrators would be brought into each sub­committee as the student proposal suggested. "The idea of tripartite representation from campusis ex­cellent and the problem is really one of working it into the mechanics of the board structure," he said. 
The trustees' reaction to the actual 

presentation by the students was 
favorable. "I was impressed by the 
earnestness of the young prople who 
represented that the proposal was 
"excellent." 
Helmuth commented that the 

"students took a well-balanced position 
and realized the positions of others 
concerned with the matters involved." 
Trustee John Powers praised the 
"frank and open discussion" and the 
objectivity of the student delegation. 
Mr. Harold S. Foley, another trustee 
called the request "extremely useful 
and not at all narrow or directed solely to the students point of view." Several other board members concurred in these reactions. 

SBP McLaughlin statelthat he was very pleased with the way the meeting went. "The Board could not have been more rekcccceptive and we are looking forward to working with the student affairs committee in a couple of mweeks." He expressed the hope that some definite plans on undergrad priorities could be worked out within a few months. 
John D. Rockefeller IV, the newest member of the student affairs com­mittee suggested that the problems of going co-ed might especially need thorough investigation. 
"This seemed to be the jist of much of what both students and administrators were saying," he commented. "There is a natural tendency to quit pushing for all the needed changes after a few years and there are some areas, such as the lack of housing and the lack of women role-models-women in contact with undergrads---that should be pushed." 
Rockefeller pointed out that all those who spoke agreed that there are too few women in the faculty and ad­ministration. He also pointed to the problem of residentiality as one that needed particular examination. 
The Board discussed the LaFortune renovation and on the advice of Fr. Jerome Wilson, University vice­president for business affairs, and on the recommendations forwarded from students authorized the administration to consider changes in the architectural plans in light of these recom­mendations. A sum of $250,000 was appropriated by the trustees for the renovation laszt May." 
Trustee John Schneider, a member of the student affairs committee, stated that the renovation was proceeding in orderly steps. "There will be oc­casional fits and starts of course, but it seems to be going well on the whole." He particularly praised Fr. Robert Griffin's Chez Darby as a "good and hopefully viable way of serving a student need in the student center."It was an excellent example, he thought, of the student's ability to "come up with 
a  solution to plement it."  a  problem andto  im­ 
The  report  of  the  Committee  on  

University Priorities <GOUP) was 
discussed by the boaard for several hours but no formal decisions were reached on any part of it. According to Stephan, the various sections of the report were referred to the committees of the board which dealt with their subject matter. The committees will request student, faculty and ad­ministration comment and will report to hte boards executive committee in January. The full board will take ac­tion on the report at their May meeting. 
Dr. O.C. Carmichael, who recently rejoined the board, called the COUP report "a key document, one that we will be referring to for years to come to check our progress." He pointed to economic problems as underlying many of the difficulties the COUP discussed in its report. "The trustees are grappling with finances and the problems are not insurmountable," he stated. 
Trustee John Caron pointed to the need for constant follow-up on the proposals the COUP made. "I think there will be some changes in financial priority needed after the board meets in May," he commented. 
Helmuth explained that the board committees had not fully examined the report or had received feedback from other groups in the university and therefore could not make any official reports. "We are going to have tom look at community reactions between now and the next meeting of lthe board," he said. , 
The trustees also spent ~ con­siderable amount of time discussing the faculty salary issue during the closed meeting. However, while the trustees heard from both faculty and ad­ministrators they di d not come to any formal decision on the topic. 
Father Hesburgh's address to the Board followed the lines of his recent speech to the faculty. He summarized the North Central accredidation report on the university and discussed tht creation of sixteen endowed chairs and special endowments for the university library, the law library and for minority aid. 
The meeting was marked by much discussion but by few formal votes. The Board did however vote to authorize publication of the North Central report in the Notre Dame Reoport and to officially create the endowed chairs. 
Haggar Hall dedicated 
Joseph M. Haggar, Jr. (president). By John DeCoursey The former Wenninger Kirsch Staff Reporter Biology Building has been tran­sformed into a modern facility for 
Haggar Hall, newly remodeled research and instruction in for use by the Dapartment of psychology. Psychology, was officially Among Haggar Hall's special dedicated Saturday by Fr. features are several research Theodore Hesburgh who rooms with one-way mirrors for celebrated the dedication Mass in observation; seven research suites the hall's auditorium and blessed consisting of a control room with the building. adjacent subject rooms, a sound­
Tours of the building were proof chamber and a lightproof conducted after the Mass and a room; a special room housing the private luncheon was held in the department's computer; and a Center for Continuing Education. germ-barrier animal laboratory. 
Renovation o f the building was These facilities enable the made possible through a $750,000 department to study a wide range gift from the Haggar Foundation of of topics with infants, children, Dallas Texas, in honor of J.M. college students and the aged. Haggar Sr., founder and honorary J. M. Haggar Sr. is a senior chairman of the board of Haggar member of Notre Dame's Advisory Company, manufacturer of men's Council for the College of Business dress slacks. Administration. Both of his sons 
The gift was presented to the are Notre Dame alumni. Edmund, University in 1972 by Haggar's of the class of '38, is now an active daughter Rosemary Haggar member of the Business Ad­Vaughan and his two sons, Ed­ministration Advisory Council. mund R. Haggar (chairman of the Joseph Jr. earned his degree in board of the family firm) and 1945. 

Monday, October 21, 1974
the observer 

warld briefs 
CHICAGO <UPI) -Police Sunday seized more than 20 pounds of pure Mexican heroin, worth an estimated $20 million, in what authorities called thelargest narcotics seizure in Chicago history. 
Four persons were arrested and police confiscated the heroin hidden in a false gas tank after a three-mile car chase on the West Side that capped a month-long investigation. 
MANILA <UPI) -At least 14 persons have died of cholera ap­parently from eating salted raw shrimp, the official Phillipine News Agency said Sunday. It said the fatalities were among 45 cholera cases reported irfour"!" towns of Cagayan province, 240 miles north of Manila, where an inoculation drive is now in progress. It identified the cholera strain as the El Tor, common in the tropics. 
GUATEMALA CITY <UPI) -Three volcanoes spewed 11sh and sand across vast areas of Guatemala's Pacific coast Sunday in eruptions officials feared would heavily damage crops. -The volcanoes, "Tuego," "Pacaya," and "Santiaguito," began erup­ting Friday, and authorities estimated damage to cotton, sugar cane and sesame seed crops would be high. 
TOKYO <UPI) -Organizers wound up preparations Sunday for nationwide mass rallies to mark lnternationazl Anti-war day Monday and demonstrate against suspected presence of American nuclear weapons in Japan. They predicted more than 2 million persons will participate. 
MOSCOW (UP() -Natural gas tapped from the vast reserves of 
remotee' Siberia will start flowing to Moscow kitchens, factories ad 
power plants for the first time within the next three weeks, the 
Soviet press said Sunday. 

LISBON <UPI) -The Portuguese Communist Party Sunday held its 
first open congress in 48 years. 

Party officials said the one-day meeting attended by about 5,000 
persons was called to bring the party's constitution and statutes in 
line with recent political developments. 
NICOSIA <UPJ l -The government said Turkish warplanes violated 
Cyprus airspace Sunday for the fifth consecutive day. 
The government, which considers Turkish overflights a violation 
of the cease-fire and breach of conditions laid down in legissalation 
on U.S. military aid to Turkey signed by President Ford Friday, 
said in a statement Turkishjets violated Cyprus airspace four 
times Sundsay. 

an campus taday 
3:30 pm--recqtion, liz carpenter and jill ruckleshaus, stapleton lounge, lemans hall. 
5 pm--vespers,evensong, Jog chapel. 

6:30 pm--dlnner, equal rights amendment fund raising dinner, $12.50, $25, sso, $100, center for continuing ed. 
8 pm--forum equal rights amendment fund raising forum, $3., cce. 
7,9,11, pm--fllm, the graduate, $1, eng. aud. 
Raftery begins biology lectures 
Dr. Michael A. Raftery, professor of molecular biology at the California Institute of Technology, will deliver three Peter C. Reilly lectures this week. The lectures, today, Wednesday, and Friday will each be at 4:30 
p.m. in Room 123 of the Nieuwland Science Hall. 
Raftery's research interests are in mechanism of enzyme action, biolo~ical membranes, neurochemistryy and develop­mental btotogy. His research accomplishments have been recognized by the award of an Alfred P. Sloan Fellowship in 1969 and a National Institutes of Health Career Development Award in 1970. 

Raftery has developed new techniques for detecting the ex­change of information which modulates enzyme activity. His Reilly lectures will concern communication between in­tracellular macromolecules and between different parts of the cell membrane. 
The lectures are free and open to the public. 




Ford sees GOP chances bright 
By MIKE FEINSILBER 
WASHINGTON (UPI) President Ford says criss­crossing America and talking to 
hard-nosed  Republican profes­ 
sionals  has  convinced  him  that  
Republican  chances  in  next  

month's elections are less dismal than the polls indicate. 
Ford also: 
-Defends his decision to devote much of his time in the past few and the next few weeks to campaigning for Republicans. "I think I spend enough time in the Oval Office to get the work done," he says. "I have enough time to decide what's right and what's wrong." 
-Shrugs off the suggestion that his own influence and political prestige will wane if the GOP takes a beating Nov. 5 despite all his efforts. "If I don't do anything and we lose," he muses, "Republicans in the House would say, 'He didn't even try."' 
A relaxed, shirt-sleeved President, drink in his hand, cruising home at 25,000 feet and 600 miles an hour aboard Air Force One, made his comments to reporters Saturday night. 
108-hour wait 
Ground rules for the interview prohibited publication of his remarks until Sunday night. 
The chief executive was en route home from a 16-hour day of campaigning for Republicans -against uphill odds -in South 
and  North  Carolina  and  in  
Kentucky.  
At  Louisville,  where  Republi­ 

cans paid $15 to eat cold chicken and roast beef sand­wiches from cardboard boxes, Ford acknowledged the possibil­ity existed that Republicans could lose another 40 or 50 seats in the House and seven or eight Senate seats. 
In that event, the President said, big spenders will be in control of government. "The key to the Treasury will be thrown away and the money will be pouring out." 
Democrats expect to make gains, but not by such large margins as Ford mentioned. Some see a pickup of 20 or 30 House seats and perhaps two or three in the Senate. 
Ford told reporters his conversations with reliable Republican leaders whom he considers realists convince him Republican chances are better than portrayed. He said he got the feeling from his overnight trip to the farm states of the Midwest that things are "not as pessimistic as some of the polls would lead you to believe." 
What sort of net gains or losses does he anticipate? "I'II tell you better in a week," he said. 
Everywhere Ford has cam­paigned he has argued that a big Democratic victory could lead to a "legislative dictator­ship." 
"The people who want a veto­proof Congress in effect want a legislative dictatorship," he said at the airport in Greens­boro, N.C. 
"They want one branch of the federal government to dominate and control all other branches of the federal government, and that is completely opposite of 
the  fundamental  concept of  our  
Constitution."  
Speaking  off  the  cuff,  he  
said:  

"Really, I look in your eyes and I plead with your hearts, and I beg with your mind, that you maximize your efforts ... becau~e the stakes are very, very htgh." 

Students hold vigil for Elton tix 
by Jim Sullivan Staff Reporter 
Since 9 pm. last Thursday a group of six students from Pangborn Hall endured rain, snow, and freezing temperatures as they waited for tickets to the Elton John concert to go on sale. When the box office opened this morning, they had sat in front of Gate 10 of the ACC for 108 hours. 
The group encountered very few problems furin~ the four-dav vi_gil.
according  to  its  leader  Rtch expected to cost anywhere from 25  
"Suds"  O'Connor  didn't realize that Marie's favorite"The to 50 dollars.  
management  has  been  color was puce," he explained.very O'Connor and his  

considerate" stated O'Connor. "They've provided us with a portable john, and have even turned on the heat lamps 
<overhead in the canopy) for us." 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased lor $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box-Q, Notre Dame, Indiana .C6556. Second cless 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

~IIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIHIIHIIIHIIHIIHIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHHIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!l
; ;

~ NICKlE'S ~ 
I = !MoNDAY NIGHT
IFOOTBALL SPECIAL! ~ 
I 3 F~ $1.00 FROM THE Ii OPENING KICKOFF TO 
I ~:R~~c;,~~ I 
i TELL NO< YOO SAW IT iIi FIRST IN TI-E OBSERVER Ii 
IIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIJIIIJIIIIIIUIJIIIII~IIII------~ 
Why would anyone wait so long for tickets? "Well, there are six of us here, holding the first six places in line. We each plan to buy the limit of 12 tickets per person," O'Connor said. "That way, we can get front row seats, and by selling the remaining tickets to less-hardy individuals, realize a small profit," he explained. 
Tickets for Elton John are now selling for $7.50 at the ACC and Student Union. By November 3, the date of the concert, they are busy during their long stay. A small party was held on Saturday night to fight off the cold. Nearly five quarts of liquor and four cases of beer were consumed. 
"It was mighty cold," explained O'Connor. "Besides, the alcohol took a secondary place to the social function of the gathering." 
During the party the November issue of "Sixteen Magazine" was passed around to see who could get the best score on the "Marie Osmond Love Quiz." Norm Roos, the winner, scored 11 out of 12. "I 

'l~aratt~r \·~ar~ s~mesl~r Ian~r semester~ t~:..~ 
Cnll~g~Mast~r ti·om Fidclitv Union Lif~ has lx.-cn ttl~ most accept<-'d 
most popular plan on campuses all overAmenca. 
Find out why. 
Call th~ Fidelity Union Colleg~ 1\tlaster· Field Associate m your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 

Phil Teah A,!lent 
Moncllly, October 21, 1974 
the observer 



Faculty unionization discussed 
by Don Reimer without having to go to collective 
Staff Reporter bargaining." 
Referring to other methods of 
agining a voice in university 
Faculty response on the question priorities, Professor Kenneth of collective bargaining ranged Lauer of the Engineering from absolute support to complete Department commented, "I would disapproval in a survey conducted much prefer the limited approach last week. concerning faculty participation 
Law Professor Edward Murphy on committees." Lauer em­opposed faculty-administration phasized, "I'm generally not in collective bargaining. ''In general favor of collective bargaining I would prefer a kind of private approach." bargaining between each in­dividual and the administration," The limited approach to which he said. "I think that should be a Lauer refers is Fr. Theodore private right that I would not want Hesburgh's suggestion of adding to give up." faculty members to the Budget 
Mechanical Engineering Review Committee. In this way Professor John Uoyd is also the faculty could gain input into strongly opposed to collective university decision-making bargaining. "I feel that teaching without resorting to collective at a university is a profession, and bargianing. collective bargaining or Architecture Professor Donald unionization of any type is very Sporleder said collective unprofessional," he said. bargaining is certainly posssible. 
Uoyd explained that unions tend "I don't rule out the possibli ty of to be too intent on the needs of the collective bargaining," he said, individual without regard for the "but it is not the most favorable parent organization, which in this alternative." Sporleder added that case would be the university. "I he definitely believes faculty would prefer to see us try to get should participate in the deter­greater input into the governing mination of university priorities. procedures of the university Professor Thomas Smith ex-
Stokely Carmichael to appear at ND 
By Petey C. Johnson Black Power (defined as Staff Reporter "Representative governance and representative control" or mG re Stokely Carmichael will again simply Black representation for speak on the Notre Dame campus Black majorities). To achieve this this Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. The end, he helped organize the subject of his speech is "The Lowndes County <Alabama) Racist-Capitalist Complex." Freedom Organization in order to 
The life of Stokely Carmichael draw on the Black vote to elect a has been very active and intense. slate of Black representatives. Born June 29, 1941 in Trinidad, he Carmichael eventually became came with his parents to live in too radical for SNCC, which he 
New York City at the age of 11. attempted to turn into an all-Black 
Honored with a scholarship to organization in order that it might the Bronx High School of Science, become more effective in Black he subsequently attended Howard interests. He became a minister in University. There he studied the Black Panther Party after Sociology and earned his leaving SNCC, but left this position Bachelor's degree in Philosophy. also after a short time and moved 
It was at Howard U. in 1960 that to Africa. 
Carmichael became strongly He is presently a Pan-Africanist, 
aware of the problems of the attempting to form an all-African 
southern Black college student. He people's revolutionary party 
took action via the non-violence around the world which would 
organizations CORE <Congress of unite Blacks and allow them to act 
Racial Equality) in the form of sit­together in their own interest. 
ins, picketing, the Freedom Rides, He sees the RacistCapitalist 
etc. 
establishment as the ultimate 
After the Civil Right Bill was nemesis of the Black race at thispassed, Carmichael became very time, but feels that international active in Black voters and helped Black unity can overthrow it. It is
found the FDP (Freedom 
toward achieving this unity that he Democratic Party) to challenge will speak here Tuesday evening in 
the main delegation of the 
room 117, Haggar Hall. 
Democratic Party at the 1964 pressed doubt in the effectiveness ceptance of collective bargaining of faculty participation in com­Professor Ronald Goldstei~ mittees. "I personally don't think stated," I think, it could be very those are very effective because ~easible here if the faculty wanted the decisions · tend to be made It, but they don't want it. They feel outside of the committees and the they're too professiona I for faculty wouldn't have a majority." collective bargaining." 
"Iwould certainly be in favor of Goldstein, an assistant professor collective bargining," said Smith, of mathematics, does not feel that and assistant professor of the faculty would be aggressive Chemical 'Englineering. "School enough to unionize. "If you polled tea· have unions and the faculty, he stated, "they their professionalism hasn't been probably wouldn't be in favor of it diminished," he pointed out. and they wouldn't be aggressiv~ Smith believedthat a union would enouch if they tried to unionize." certainly be possible, if enough people are infavor of it. 
Professor James Cushing, Some faculty members thought 
chairman of the Faculty Senate explained this organization's rol~ in the present situation. "The Se~ate and _the. AAUP are only trymg to distribute information concerning the pros and cons of the situation," he said. Cushing stressed that the Faculty Senate is not trying to organize a Uilion. 
"Whether to organize or not is up to !he ~acuity to decide upon after all the mformation is distributed to them," said Cushing. "Whether or not unionization can work depends ?n the willingness of the people mvolved. It certainly can work if people want it to," he stated. 
that the process of collective bargaining ,would create 
Fire erupts in Walsh
polarization between faculty and 
administrators. "The possiblilty 
A fire broke out in room 321 of
has only been mentioned," said 
Walsh Hall Sunday morning at
one professor, "in the hope that the 
approximately 8:45 a.m. Ac-
administration will realize the 
cording to first floor resident
need for some sort of action." 
assistant Libby Ford, the fire
Professor Irwin Press, and 
began when a spark from a lamp
associate professor in the 
wire ignited the mattress of a day
Department of Sociology and 
bed in the room. The name of the
Anthropology, believed faculty 
resident is being witheld upon
unioniza. tion should be a last 
request.
resort. 

"Evidenly the wire got caught in
"I definitely think it would be 
the runners as she pushed the bed
q~ite feasible," said Press, "but 
back," Ford explained.
this should be a last resort and it proximately 9 a.m.. All residents of the dorm were evacuated as soon as the fire broke out. ' 'Standard evacuation ' ' procedures were followed, ex­plained Jan Huber, third floor RA. The RAs went around to each room and knocked on the doors to make sure that all the residents woke up. 
Huber estimated that after a half hour most of the girls were able to return to their rooms. The women on the first and second floors were 
Although no books or clothes allowed inside first. 
depends on the response of the 
were destroyed, the fire damaged A group of residents decided to
administraiton to faculty 
all the furniture in the room, ac-keep warm and went to breakfast
requests." · 

cording to Ford. "The room needs in the Dining Hall. Although they 
Press pointed out, "the major 
to be repainted, and the rug is did not have their ID cards, the 
resource of the university is its 
worthless," she stated. checkers were very cooperative,
faculty, and this resource should 
Considerable smoke damage explained one Walsh resident.
have an input into running the 
occured, according to Security One girl commented that many
university." 

reports. The entire third floor had residents did not realize that a real
Assistant English Professor 
to be aired out. fire erupted until the onlookers
James Doubleday favored 
The fire department was sum-<;aw smoke pouring from a third
collective bargaining; however, he 
mooed and arrived at ap-noor window.
felt the idea was not a popular one among the other faculty. 
"I think it would be a very good idea, but I don't think many of my colleagues would agree with me." Doubleday said, "I'm not at all sure that it will happen, because many faculty think ofthemselvesas professional and they consider unions blue collar," he explained. 
Doubleday also mentioned some possible benefits of collective bargaining. "It might mean faculty would be paid closer to a living wage and have more control over their own affairs, such as appointments of department chairmen," he said. 
Another area in which collective bargaining would provide im­provement is faculty dismissals and promotions. "It would mean better guidelines for dismissals and promotions," Doubleday said. "As it stands now, until tenure the administration can release a professor almost at its whim," he observed. 
Echoing Doubleday's un­certainty concerning faculty ac-

National Convention. 
At approximately the same time, the murder of three Civil Rights workers in Mississippi and the indiscriminate beating in the Selma-Montgomery march led by Martin Luther King challenged his non-biolent stance to the point that he lost his commitment to it. 
With this decision, Carmichael became somewhat more radical, 
ATTENTION GIRLS
and upon assuming the chaimanship of SNCC in 1966, he 
(GUYS TOO)

began to encourage the theories of 
10% OFF ON ALL WINTE 
DENNY'S 

CLOTHING WITH 
RESTAURANT 
OPEN 24 HOURS DAILY 

THIS COUPON 
ANY MENU ITEM 
OVER $1.50 


ALSO SPECIAL 
S.250FFWITHTHIS COUPON 
52626 U.S. 31 NORTH 

}; 
:,~~ 

An electrical fire caused extensive damage to a 3rd floor roorr. Walsh Sunday. 
Acareer in law­WithOUt law SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a cyya•lenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assi· ,ant is able to do work traditionally done by lawy1 .s. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the six courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 700 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 60 cities. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant, we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 ·,. 1 .;.~i : .. n. ·· (21Sl,.-7'32'-66oo····· •• ,..•.·. •. ·.· ••..• 
_,r~~~·~"~;~~~~~i~•;!tJ~;!ti'-·~~~o;~~i~.tf·~l ,.•~ ..&:~;!1\.J ••. :~,,~.~.:; ~. 
the observer Monday, October 21, 1974 
Blue M:zntel top priority. 
SMC assembly discusses money matters 
by Mary Janca the other three Board of Govern­volleyball, ping-pong, swimming, direction of Ms. Steve Wernig, missioner Joanne Garrett an­St. Mary's Editor nance Commissioners: Joanne basketball, and flag football, Assistant to the vice president of nounced that SMC has been .~ Garrett, legislative commissioner; Assembly members unanimously student affairs, stated that the "guaranteed" 400 student tickets. Business ManJger of St. Mary's Chris Albosta, student affairs voted to allocate $500 to Mary funds will pay for equipment, Additionally, student tickets not .. yearbook, the Blue Mantle and commissioner, and Martie Kab­Hooveris, Athletic Commissioner, advertising, official's stipend, and bought by Notre Dame students, SMC Student Government bes, hall life commissioner. with the stipluation that an account office supplies. will be put up for sale for SMC 
-~ 
' 
Treasurer Ellie Quinn requested This vote amends a proposal of of all expenses be made to Student Regarding the number of tickets students, as was the practice in that Student Assembly absorb the last meeting which increased Assembly. to ND basketball games St. Mary's previous years. approximately $1300 of a $2800 Legan's former salary of $200 by Hooveris, working under the will receive, Legislative Com· deficit left by last year's yearbook $100. staff, at an Assembly meeting last Previous arguments against a night. salary hike centered on the role oJ 
Job recruiters scheduled at SMC 
According to Quinn, the Blue the Academic Affairs Com­Mantle staff deferred payment of a missioner in the Board of 
by Sue McGuire Interview techniques and company The Career Development Center $2,779 bill until printing errors in Governance. Lehman serves in an Staff Reporter information are discussed. is also spending much time withlast year's cover were corrected, advisory capacity to the Board, Resumes and credential forms recruiters to find out whatand then apparently failed to pay contrary to the other com­Employment recruiters from 49 are checked for accuracy and openings and opportunities existit. missioners who have voting rights. companies are scheduled to come completeness. and what kind of persons cam­· The College Business Office has According to Lehman, to St. Mary's this year. The O'Neil and student interns are panies are looking for. Aagreed to pay $1,506.74 of the bill, ' discussion of her raise had become number is twice that of last year's, available to advise students newsletter is sent to therecruiterswith the stipulation that Student "a question of power and authority and plans are underway to contact signing up for interviews. Prior to to notify them what focus andGovernment absorb the remaining vs. responsibility," and in her additional companies interested in signing up students are required to direction Saint Mary's is taking$1,272.26. position, she said she has "as much hiring liberal arts graduates. 
bring their resume and placement and to make the recruiters moreReasons for the Business Of· responsibility, if not more so, than The SMC Career Development forms to the Center and register aware of the preparation studentsfice's selection of this figure are the other members of the Board." Center is helping students to for an interview prep session. are getting.
unclear, continued Quinn. Lehman's duties presently in­prepare for their interviews After an interview O'Neil Because of the many activities atAssembly representatives clude student representative to the through career planning reviews with each student how the the Career Development Centercontended that to absorb the deficit Presidential Search Committee workshops and interview prep recruiter reacted towards her and O'Neil advises students who wishcould "establish a precedent in and to the Rank and Tenure sessions. 
what her strengths and to see her indivwually to make anabsorbing all future debts of the Committee, as well as mem· "Traditionally colleges have weaknesses are. appointment.
Blue Mantle Consequently, the bership in the Academic Mfairs sponsored recruiters without request was tabled, pending a Council, Curriculum Council, the taking on the responsibility of more complete investigation of the Academic Standards sub­educating the students," explained matter. committee of the Board of Karen O'Neil, head of SMC Career 
Notre Dame vs. N~vy
The Assembly also raised the Regents, and Student Assembly. Development Center.
I 
yearly salary of the Academic The Assembly passed the The interview prep sessions are ~ ·I Commissioner Tess Lehman from amendment by a 9-Q margin, with held at the Center from 6:30 to 8 I $300 to -400. With this increase, one abstention. p.m. every Thursday night before 
Pre-Game Party and Rally
I' Lehman's salary equals those of To develop intramural recuiters are scheduled to come. 
Friday Evening November 1, 197 4 
SMC assembly elections held 
8:30p.m.
By Kathy Skiba assembly seats are still vacant and Regina, and one from Augusta. 
Staff Reporter will remain so for the year. Day students and off-campus Vacancies remain in the Regina students are also represented by Student Assembly elections were Hall and off-campus represen­one member respectively. held at St. Mary's College on tation. Kearney expressed "The Student Assembly votes on 
Post-Game Cocktail Party
Thursday, October 17, to fill four of displeasure in that the Regina and the proposals and expenditures of the six vacancies in the assembly. off-campus residents "won't be the Student Government, 11 Garrett 
Immediately following the game
Chairman of student elections, represented in full strength." explained. sophomore Katie Mearney, an­Chairman of the assembly, Assembly members meet every nounced the results of the election. Senior Joanne Garrett, also ex­two weeks. Meanwhile they must 
New representatives pressed disappointment in the keep in touch with their con· 
Benjamin Franklin Hotel 
from Holy Cross Hall are fresh­vacancies. "We have enough stituents by soliticiting proposals men Ann Deighen and Kathy people to work with," she asserted, and distributing minutes from the 
8th and Chestnut Streets 
Sheedy. New members of the "but I wish we could have a full assembly meetings. McCandless Hall delegation are assembly. It's definitely too bad Election Chairman Kearney also 
(near Independence Square)
junior Mary Ann Murphy and that we don't have full represen­announced that voting for the four freshman Mary Ann Coleman. tation. 11 Garrett noted, however, freshmen offices of president, vice· Kearney commented that the that she herself had never worked president, treasurer, and 
Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia
voter turnout was very good. with a full assembly. secretary will be held sometime in "About half of the residents of each Garrett defined the Student November. dorm voted," she cited. Elections Assembly as "a legislative body of were open from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. in Student Government.11 Members the respective halls. of the assembly are elected from 
Eliciting candidates for the each hall, based on the population assembly seats, however, was not of the hall. Five members are as successful. Each of the can­accepted from LeMans, three each didated ran uncontested, and two from Holy Cross, McCandless, and 

'.
' . 
. I 





Pulitzer prize --winning author Halberstam to speak tonight 
By Bob Mader him "the Times most exceptional The book gives in-depth portraits Staff Reporter reporter of recent ·years," and of the men who came to power in Harper's termed him "at the age the Ke.nnedy era: Robert 
David Halberstam, Pulitzer of thirty-five . . . a legend in McNamara, McGeorge Bundy, (Includes show tialets, tours, seminars, hotel) prize-winning author of several American journalism." . William P. Bundy, Dean Rusk, For information call Speech and Drama Office. 284-4141
books on Vietnam and the Kennedy After graduating from Harvard, George Ball, William West­and Johnson eras, will speak at the Halverstam spent a year at the moreland, Maxwell Taylor, and Library Auditorium tonight at 8:00 smallest daily in Mississippi, four Presidents Kennedy and Johnson 
I
p.m. years at the Nashville Ten­themselves. Halberstam recounts 
Halberstam first came to na­nesseean, and finally the Times. in detail the history of the conflict, tional prominence in 1962 and 1963 As a reporter for the Times. he the reaction of the American as a reporter in Vietnam for the spent six years as a fore1gn people, biographies of the men New York Times. His articles won correspondent in Leopoldville, involved, and the governmental him the Pulitzer prize and several Saigon, and Warsaw. He left the processes involved such as the other awards. Commentary called Times in 1967 to work as a con­workings of the Pentagon and the 
tributing editor for Harper's. State Department.Notre Dane Law Halverstam has been a fellow of Halberstam gives the inside the Adlai Stevenson Institute since story of the decision to send the 
1971. first advisors to Vietnam, Ken­school to publish Halberstam 's first major book nedy's Vienna negotiations with 
52980 U.S.3l North 272-5220. 
was called The Making of a Krushchev, the Gulf of Tonkin a new journal Quagmire, a pessimistic report on Resolution, the 1964 election, and 
presents
Vietnam published in early 1965. the decision to wind down the war. 
Volume One of the Notre Dame 
His other works include The Un­Halberstam also discusses 
Journal of Legislation, a new finished Odyssey of Robert Ken­guerrilla warfare, U.S. difficulties 
publication of the l!nivers~t~'s L~w nedy, which the Times called "far with this type of warfare, the 

frigbt proa.
School students, 1s rece1vmg m­willingness of the North Viet­
and away the best book aboutternational distribution this week Senator Kennedy," and Ho, which namese to fight a major power,
with copies being mailed to all law and the development of dissent in
Professor James Thomsoon,
libraries, U.S. and state supreme 
overland Stage c~.
Harvard's Asian expert, described the Cabinet and Congress.
court collections, and all major as "an important and incisive Halberstam 's appraisal of the city and county libraries. A suc­Vietnam War and the men in· 
~verything fro_m d~wn-ho-me
essay."

cessor to New Dimensions in Halberstam's latest book is The volved is best summarized when 
b l'u e 9 r a s s f O·. c~ o n t e_m p o r a r y r o c k 
Legislation, the Notre Dame 
Best and the Brightest, the story of he says "What was most strikingpublication joins Harvard and what happened when the best and about this period as events closed 
BE G INNING 0 C T 0 8 E R 8 ,~ 3 S H 0 W $
University of Michigan as one of brightest men in the country came in on the principals was how little 
three periodicals of its type in the exploration there was of the
to Washington to serve the Ken­
N 'G H T l Y F R 0 M 9 :0 0 ·2: 0 0 
nation. nedy and Johnson administrations, consequences of their route ... and 
A major article in the first 
and exercised, or failed to exercise what it might do to the country."publication is "A Handbook on the th~r powers. The Best andtheBrightest , p. 149. 
.S U N DAY f·"R 0 M -8 : 3 0 -12 : 0 0 
____......_____......_.._...
Research and Drafting of 
Legislation" by Dennis J. Owens, a ....... \ ----
..-·--·--·----------­
third year student from Kansas City and editor of the Journal. 
Financed by a grant from the Law Student Division of the American Bar Association and the Notre Dame Law School, the handbook serves as a guide to the 




It Sounds
person who i~ researching and drafting a legislative bill. Owens, a graduate of Rockhurst College, will serve as clerk for Missouri Supreme Court Justice Robert E. Seiler after graduation. 

Incredible 
A Kansas City congressman featured in the current issue of Time magazine, Richard Bolling, is the author of another article, 
.-BUT EVELYN WOOD GRADUATES CAN READ
"Does Congress Have a Future." Bolling is chairman of the Select Committee on House Committee and previews his report and 
THE EXORCIST IN 58 MINUTES
proposal on the restructuring of the Congressional committee system.
Other major articles include 
At That Speed, The 403 Pages Come Across
"High Crimes and 
With More Impact Than The Mowie.
Misdemeanors," the definitions of an impeachable offense, and two proposals for obscenity laws edited by Joseph O'Meara, dean emeritus ii 
•1

of the Law School. Also featured are three articles on the Equal ;,1· 
You can do it, too. So far over 550,000 other people have done it. People who thing-the place to learn more about it is at a free speed reading lesson. 
Rights Amendment dealing with 
have different jobs, different IQs, different interests, different educations have This is the same course President Kennedy had his Joint Chiefs of Staff take. 
family laws, education and completed the course. Our graduates are people from all walks of life. These The staff of President Nixon completed this course in June 1970. The same onecommunity property laws. 1 people have all taken a course developed by Evelyn Wood, a prominent Senators and Congressmen have taken. 
educator. Practically all of them at least tripled their reading speed with equal or I better comprehension. Most have increased it even more. Come to a Mini· lesson and find out. It is free to you and you will leave with a
First Americcm 
Think for a moment what that means. All of them-even the slowest-now read better understanding of why it works. One thing that might bother you about an average novel in less than two hours. They read an entire issue of Time or your reading speed is that someone might find out how slow it is. The Newsweek in 35 minutes. They don't skip or skim. They read every word. They instructors at the Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Free Speed Reading lesson use no machines. Instead, they let the material they're reading determine how will let you keep your secret. It's true we practice the first step to improved fast they read. And mark this well: they actually understand more, remember· reading at a Mini· lesson and we will increase your reading speed on the spot, but
to be released more, and enjoy more than when they read slowly. That's rightl They the results will remain your secret. Plan to attend a free Mini-Lesson 1nd learn understand more. They remember more. They enjoy more. You can do the same that it is possible to reed 3-4-5 times faster, with comparable comprehension. 
bishop's journal 
A three-volume edition of the "The Paper of John Carroll, Founder of the American Catholic 
Hierarchy" will be published by r-------SCHEDULE OF FREE MINI-LESSONS---------. 

the University of Notre Dame Press in 1976 as a contribution to the celebration of the Bicentennial of the American Revolution. 
Presented in comprehensive form for the first time, the major work will contain many previously unpublished historical insights gathered from the large manuscript deposits in the Ar­chdiocesan archives in Baltimore and from more than 20 repositories in Europe and America. 
The Rev. Thomas O'Brien 
Hanley, resident Jesuit scholar and lecturer of Baltimore's Loyola College, is presently completing preparation of the material. 
Consecrated as the first Catholic bishop of the United States in 1790, 
l
John Carroll served on the Com-
You'll increase your reading speed 50 to 100% on the spot! 
FREE READING DYNAVtiCS LESSOI\6 TODAY &T~ON at 4:00 pm and 8:00 pm 
at THE CENTER F~ CGITINUING EbUCATfON on ,The Notre Darre Campus 
Monda , October 21, 1974 the observer 5 1 
l ~ 

THE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE presents NEW YORK THEATRE SEMINAR Ill 
1 

Jan. 2 to 10, 1975 Cost: Approx. $200.00, plus meals and transportation 
j 
mission of the Continental 
• 

~~=-~~~~~~'"'~.----·-..----.. ......_............E_v_E_LY_N_wo_o_D__R_EA_D_I_N_G_D_Y_N_A_Mi_cs_____________....:l 

naant_......... ...,..,..... 
P.O. One Wing, Two Wing 
'IIIIIIIIJIIIII8IIUHIUII••__
,, ray ramir•·z 
Old Paint Good evening ladies and gentlemen. Tonight, with the aid of slides, I would like to bring to your attention the most remarkable To the Editor: find ill' the entire history of entomology. You may have heard We feel that it is our duty to rumors of a strange and unique butterfly in the darkest depths of To the Observer, inform the students of one more the Amazon jungle. Well, I have come to tell you, my dear friends and colleagues, that they are rumors no longer. I have personally 
Despres 

An unfortunate consequence of facet of this school's never-ending 
traveled to that far off rain forest and photographed thisthe recent controversy concerning I am reluctant to discuss matters multi-faceted policies of ripping the mysterious and wondrous creature for myself, this unique specie of the appointment of the chairman of involving academic appointments student off. On Monday, October butterfly that I have endowed with the prestigious title of "Singalus 
the Department of Sociology and and confidential assessments of 7, two of us went to the main­wingalus Sus Americana". Yes friends, you heard correctly:Anthropology has been the individuals in what is basically a tenance building to acquire some Singalus wingalus--a single-winged butterfly, or to put it inomission of any reference to the student newspaper. However the free paint, to paint one of our 
layman's terms, a butterfly with a single wing! Please,professional qualifications of Leo recent remarks in the pages of the rooms. We were aware of the fact please ... stay in your seats! Thank you.
Despres to serve in this capacity. Observer about the appointment of that for the first time, this year the 
Despres was one of dozens of a new Chairman in the Depart-university was providing students serious outside candidates for the ment of Sociology and An-with free paint to paint their job of chairman. He was one of thropology gratuitously malign the rooms, or so we thought. You can only three outside finalists whom professional credentials and imagine how dismayed we were I know that many of you are skeptical and that the majority feel the department felt were suf­reputation of a person. One can upon arriving at the paint shop that this a bald-faced lie, but the Singalus wingalus does exist, and I ficiently qualified to warrant only hope it was done in ignorance when were confronted by two very have the pictures to prove it. Now then, with your kind cooperation 
I shall begin my presentation. Lights please. 
invitations for personal interview. Whatever one may think of the amused gentlemen who informed Click: We see me boarding my plane ... 
He has had significant training in procedures of appointment and the us that the free paint had ended on 
Click: Here is my luggage boarding another plane ... 
both disciplines of our department, communication or lack thereof the preceding Friday, and that 
Click: Here I am arriving at the South American International
having obtained a masters degree between department and Dean, it now, the same paint which was Airport. ..
in sociology, and a Ph.D. in an­is a wholly different matter to free for the first five weeks of 
Click: Here is my luggage arriving in Newark, Ne Jersey.
thropology. Of all four candidates, impugn the professional qualities school, would cost $6.00 per gallon. 
Click: Here I am standing outside the office of the "SouthDespres has had the most ad­of the persons considered for or The administrators of the American Tourist Guides Specializing in Rare Butterflies".
ministrative experience. He appointed to the position. The maintenance shop continued to say 
Click: My guide Rudanfo. A weary looking chap, to say the least. 
chaired the Non-Western Studies credentials of the man finally that notices of this action were 
Click: Here are Rudanfo's six wives. Program at Ohio Wesleyan appointed are solid: academic posted in each dorm. Well, our Click: This is me, still wearing the same suit I arrived in, setting 
University. He chaired the An­training, publications, field work, room, painted a bright shade of off with Rudanfo for the foreboding rain forest. trropology Department at Case­administrative experience. They repugnant orange by the previous Click: Some of the local natives we ran into ... Western Reserve for fo8ur years. need no apology from this office. tenants (which is not a Click: This is their chief. He's the third man from the left--that While at Case-Western, he served Moreover they were assessed by · university-approved color), was in rather emaciated looking fellow pinching my leg. on numerous advisory councils and competent scholars outside the dire need of a few coats of paint, Click: Here I am, trying out their new cooking pot for size. You as president of the university's University as well as in it. The we had no choice but to pay the may recognize the suit. AAUP chapter. Additionally, he decision was not made arbitrarily, $6.00 per gallon, a total of $12.00. Click: Here we are saying a hurried goodbye to these lovable 
has served as consultant to nor was it made on religious Upon protesting this seemingly natives as they shower us with a ritual offering of intricately numerous local and governmental grounds: to imply or say so is unjust act we were told that we carved spears. 
Click: My luggage in Newark.
agencies. Despres is a well­sheer calumny. were lucky to be able to get the 
Click: Here you see Rudanfo asking me for a raise and ... 
recognized scholar of national paint so cheap,downtown it would 
Click: My refusal to give in to his greedy desires. 
reputation, with an extensive and Sincerely yours, cost so much more. 
Click: Here I am, alone in a strange jungle. 
impressive list of publications. Frederick J. Crosson, Dean Returning to our dorm, can­Click: At long last, the favorite feeding grounds of numerous
By any objective and College of Arts and Letters vassing the bulletin boards, we South american Lepidoptera.
professional criteria, Leo Despres found no notices of the termination 
Click: You see me here, staking out the area and setting up myis qualified to serve as chairman of of the paint give-away. There were photographic equipment in anticipation of that rarest of but­
this department. signs asking that all extra terflies ... 
Clagett Smith paint be returned, but there were 
Click: Yes! Singalus wingalus Sus Americana! Irwin Press Rah-Rah no notices that the paint give-away Please, settle down! Contain yourselves! Another outburst like Tom Sasaki would end. that and I shall have the auditorium cleared! Now, if I may be 
Jean Byrne We feel that we are being permitted to continue ... Kenneth Moore Dear Observer: whitewashed. This incident must Click: A close-up of the Singalus wingalus. Notice the beautiful 
C. Lincoln Johnson What has happened to the Notre not be brushed over. Why is it that translucence of the intricately detailed wing. Yes, notice the single. William Liu Dame school spirit? paint which was free for five weeks wing! • James Bellis Is it due to the fact that we had six suddenly costs $6.00 per gallon? Click: Here we may note in the lower right-hand corner the Fabio Dasilva players suspended? Is it that we Where does this money go? equally intriguing vestigail wing of this rare creature. Carl O'Neil have won so many games that we Perhaps there is a satisfactory Click: After days of waiting I was blessed with this shot of the 
Andrew Weigert are, as one alumnus put it, "rich" explanation, but we cannot help vestigial wing in action. Amazing, eh? Now, now ladies ... Don't in wins, and therefore don't get but think that there may be some 
blush.
(the above are faculty members of 

Click: ~nd n?w, for my most amazing revelation of the evening ..
psyched for a game as do teams massive paint cover up involved.
the Department of Sociology and We see m this photo conclusinve proof that the previously

and schools who are hungry for a Regardless, we think that weAnthropology l discovered Lorenzi di-bod, the amazing two-bodied butterfly, is
win? (ex: Purdue) Or is it that deserve our moneyback. This is of actually the mating phase of Singalus wingalus Sus Americana! 
when we ha~e a tough time against primer concern. Let's get this Click: Notice the two distinct bodies. Notice the characteristic a team which was supposed to business out from under the drop coloring of the wings. Notice their little wicked smiles.. .lights
Sweethearts have been a pu~h ove.~, eve.ryone cloths, and get some reasonable please.becomes sort of down ? Is It that explanations. nobody wants to be considered a 
Dear Notre Dame Glee Club: 

rah-rah? Sincerely,You're sweethearts. We just 
When the team is doing poorly, Charles Sweeneywanted you to know how much it 
that is when they need the cheers David Roos .With th_at I gi~e you _the reason for their single wings ... they are means to us to have you come and virtually 1mmoblle until they mate, thus assuring some measure of most. Yet it seems that is when Peter Andreyevserenade us at Saint Mary's. 
protection from those that would seek to prey on them, but once ~ 
we the students are perfectly quiet. Richard BArlow
Thanks again. they join in their act of perpetuation they travel far and wide in a
So be a rah-rah ... big deal.. The Robert Maier
Mary Quinlan cleverly planned dispersal maneuver. Their love has given them
team needs us, and the fans look Mark Wagner
Nancy Kemp wings.
toward the students too, as was ALUMNI HALLJulie Johnson 
made clear to me this pastMary Guerra 


Sheer Calumny 
Editor: 
DOONESBURY 
ZONKeRI  
CMON, RAtPHIE,  WR Pt/INT5 HAVE5ECReT  
•  JIJSTON£  L-IVES?  
r  VERSt!  \  
\  


weekend. R.J.C. Night Editor --Andy Praschak Class of 1975 by Garry Trudeau Ass't Night Editor --Marlene Zloza 
NO SHR&T ABOUT ~ n; MICHAEl.-PlANTS ARE VoeYARTICI/I.AT£1 lr YOtl 1./STCNReAl. CLOSelY, yO{/MIGHTBe ABU 7lJ HeAR W THE Gei?ANIIJM /?£CITE t ''GIJNGII PIN"!\ '  /)//) He 51/Y ANYTHIN7 YeT? I  
11n  

Layout --Kathy Skiba, Sue Zwick, Martha Fanning, Maggie Waltman Copy Reader --Jeanne Murphy, Jim Eder Day Editor --Ken Girouard Editorials --Fred Graver Features --J.R. Baker Sports --Greg Corgan Typists --Kathy Grace, Camille Arrleh, Don Roos, Nell VIII, Rick Huber Compugraphic Operator --Bob 
Steinmetz  
Picture Screen er  -­ AI  D'Antonio  
Ad  Layout  -­ Bob  Tracey,  Bob  

McManus 
Night Controller --Dave Rust Happy Birthday Whales ana Whitey: you're both real fast 


Monday, October 21, 1974 
the observer 
7 

a haunting paris of around 
Now showing in the Main Gallery of dummies modeling everything from building, but inside the open door the Moreau Hall at St. Mary's College is a corsets to children's hats and dolls. Dolls cabaret is dark and still. It seems almost visiting exhibit of photographs by Eugene are also prominent in Porte du Montreuil, as if the door was forgotten rather than Atget from the International Museum of Fortifications Extras Muros. They are that someone had come and opened it Photography at George Eastman House in hung all over the outside of the shack as a probably only a few minutes before. Rochester, New York. Atget's subject is form of decoration and "fortification." Maison de Benjamin Franklin, Rue de Paris--the Paris of the first decade of this By far the most of Atget's photos are of Penthierre employes much the same ef­century, and he has captured haunting the streets of Paris themselves, not of the fect. The street before the house of the images of the city in the forty-one original Parisians who lived in them. His most one-time American ambassador is in deep prints now on display. effective use of the early-morning sunlight shadow, but the windows and white facade 
Atget was a Parisian, and caught the and deep shadows occurs in some of these gleam in the sunlight. mood of his city in strangely-lighted pictures. The Cabaret du Gd. Cerf, Rue St. The depth and clarity of Atget's photographs of streets, shops, maisons, Martin 120 is especially remarkable. The photographs is remarkable considering parks, and the Seine. His straightforward Coup, approach to a mundane subject, using only light for special effects and mood made him very influential upon several im­portant later photographers, including Cartier-Bresson, Bernice Abbot, and Lee Friedlander. 
It seems Atget's favorite time of day to work was the crack of dawn, both to achieve his lighting effects and to avoid people. There are almost no important figures in any of the photos, and none at all in many of them. The figures that do appear are incidental to the scene, and not the subjects of the photos. 
Paris-Au Port Saulut-Cabaret, Rue des Fossess St. Jacques presents the most important of any figure--a fat woman who actually seems to be included because she has become as much a part of the store front as the Port Salut sign or the fruit stalls. Atget's real attitude toward people is better demonstrated in his photo of a junk shop in the Rue de Petit Tbovars. Amid the clutter what catches the eye are two mannekins dressed in evening clothes. 
It is only on second glance that the seamstress working on the doorstep becomes noticeable. And so it goes in many studies of shop windows filled with 
"Allo? You hav' rent?" have our own bedroom, five upstairs, one Shopping is easy. The Krogers down the no heat at first frost downstairs. Also downstairs is the kit­block is open 24 hours a day and the cases of Busch chen, living room, middle foyer, and a laundromat isn't far either. all-night card game guest room. All this space is a vast im­Food. That's one category campus life 
grilled cheese sandwiches provement over the cramped dorm rooms. can't touch. With the exception of Jay, gourmet fish With a little organization, work is kept to who needs a cookbook to soft boil an egg, one broken foot a minimum. Each guy cooks and cleans we cook up some decent meals: roast one broken wrist one day a week; the seventh day is a free chicken, burgers, meatloaf, even steak Kojack for all. Saturday is supposed to be house and lamb. Other than dinner we subsist on 
law boards cleaning day, three scrubbers each week. grilled cheese and orange juice and a But our car pool schedule's been followed gallon of milk a day. only once or twice since August. And beer. The average has been two 
Our house is not entirely typical of Notre Financially we're getting by inex­cases a week, but "our potential is Dame off-campus life. In some respects pensively. Rent is $225 a month ($37.50per unlimited" said Ted. it's unique as any individual. But our person), utilities about $55 a month so far. The major hassles have been with our problems and life-styles are probably We've created this economic entity called Hungarian landlord. It took a week for common to many other students "0-C". the House Food Fund to which we owe $12 him to fix the hot water heater. The fur­
We rent a large white house at 2103 South a week. Beer and bacon, since drinking nace, which was declared unusable by the William St., a quiet, tree-lined street on the and breakfasts are so diverse for each of gas company in August, wasn't working south side of town, six blocks from the us, are bought separately. Gas is running properly until October 7. It took threats of Armory and "an hour north of Louisville." between $5 and $10 a week. Five of us have legal action and an angry phone call from Actually it's 4•.~ miles from campus (or is cars, so transportation isn't too much of a Fr. Tallarida, Director of Off-Campus campus 4% miles away?), a 15 to 20 problem. Housing, to get the landlord to repair the minute drive. For income, Jules and Ted work furnace properly. Now the electricity isn't 
The six of us are all seniors: Jules Beal, weekend nights as waiters-busboys at the working normally. Who knows when that Bill Breitenbach, Ted Krebsbach, Jason nearby Wooden Keg. Tom works in the will be fixed? "I don't want to spend any Mims, Tom Russo and Jay Smith. The Campus Mail Room and Jason devotes money on the house," the landlord flatly house is spacious enough for each of us to much of his time to Army ROTC. said. 
There is a certain isolation inherent in living off-campus, a feeling that the main current of the university is passing us by. "I miss the comraderie of Morrissey Hall" said Jay. Bill expressed the same sen­timent: "The neighborhood's good, but it's far from other students, from the bars, and from school." 
The neighbors are great. Last night, for example, the electricity went out in the stove and the lady next door graciously let us use her kitchen to finish cooking. 
Fortunately, we have had no problems with robberies. "There are no other students around here, so maybe that's why we haven't been bothered," said Ted. A can of Mace is around just in case. "There's nothing in the house to steal unless the guy wants a grilled cheese sandwich," noted Jules. 
And of course, we have a dog, a four­week old St. Bernard-"Bubba." At the rate he's eating he'll be a monster, but unfortunately he's not house trained. ''Not again!" We may have to return him because no one has the time to take proper 
--~ care of him. 
life not under the dome 
1900 

by ianet waltman 
Rue de Ia Veruie (?), Atget no. 365 uses light, shadow, and perspective to ac­centuate the high walls of a narrow alley, crossed at several places by archways between buildings. Atget has even managed a special effect in Paris, Au Franc Pinot-Quai Bourbon Paris Boutique Empire AI Fbg. St. Honore, with only lighting. Reflected in the glass door below an elaborate grill is Atget himself with camera, al}d even the buildings behind him are clearly discernable. 
Occasionally Atget left Paris, but only for Versailles, or the further banks of the Seine. Seine, Les Bords du Marne is almost a picture of a woman in white, but is, as the title indicates, really a picture of the boats on the river, one of which is occupied by the lady. Versailles, Bosquet de I' Arc de Triomphe is more typical Atget--although it is a picture of a park, not a street. There are a horseshoe-shaped bench and a statue to prove it is a haunt of men, but there is no one there. 
Atget has painted a moody and somewhat disturbing portrait of the City of Light by using its own namesake as the chief aid for his camera. 
His photographs will be at St. Mary's until Monday, October 28, when they will be replaced by an invitational ceramics and fiber exhibition entitled "Fire and Fiber" which will open November 10. The Moreau Main Gallery is open 10 to 5 daily, although the other galleries are open until 
9:00 each evening. 
Appointments can be made to see the Gallery at other times by calling Claudia Traudt, the gallery director. The Main Gallery is in the basement of Moreau Hall, and is reached through the small cour­tyard to the left of the entrance to O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
by tom russo 


Our life style is unique. "Y'all some weird people" commented Jason one morning after a 5 a.m. escapade playing basketball on the local elementary school courts. To be honest, academics are kept to a minimum and our hours are ridiculous. "The tube" has become a way 
l 

of life for some. "I gotta get in my eye­hours" says Jay. Parties have been both planned and impromptu; one Saturday ~ two rooms were filled with everybody dancing; another time we had a simple Notre Dame "beer blast." The time Jules went down to the Ace-Hi for a quick shot of Southern Comfort and came out with a broken wrist and bruises can hardly be 
I
considered typical. "I thought getting $60 in tickets from Arthur Pears was your average day," he said. 
Off-campus life is responsibility and irresponsible fun, rowdy times and dull times. It's different. There are no "petty Administrative restrictions," but neither is there any protection. Good meals are a treat, but washing dishes isn't much fun. Then again, having guests is no problem. There is a price you have to pay for your freedom. Although it is important to distinguish be'.wE>en the myth and the reality of "off-campus life," it is a great way to spend senior year. 
the observer Monday, October 21, 1974
8 

..,...............................................,
-

Food and live music 
':
i




Nazz offers coffeehouse mood 
by Robert Jacques Starr Reporter 
The large room is dark as night, 
providing a feeling of the personal 
and the peaceful. Crisscrossed 
r;1fters reflect light off flickering 
r.mdles and blues mingle amidst 
the crowded tables. The people are listening-, talking, smoking, thmking, dreaming. 
This is Nazz, the new cof­
fPPhouse which is open free of 
charge to the students of Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's on Fridays 
and Saturdays form 9:30 p.m. to 
I: 30 a.m. It is located in the basement of LaFortune Student Center. 
During the six weeks it has been open, Nazz has been very actively used. Ralph Pennino, manager of Nazz, feels it is very successful. "Only one weekend, Purdue 

weekend, the place was not packed for the entire night," he com­mented. Even so, he feels that more people do not come because they are not familiar with its existence, or they have "misconceptions" about it. 
Pennino, several dedicated volunteers, Student Body President Pat McLaughlin and Ombudsman Director Bill McLean have worked to provide a place for students to go to on the weekenh 
after midnight. 
"The University shuts down at midnight. A person is almost forced to go off campus if he wants to do something," Pennino stated. 
Food, drink, music provided 

Besides just a place to go, Nazz has atmosphere and offers food and music. The concession stand sells tea, a variety of soda pops, hot chocolate, cider, candy bars, and cheese and crackers. Pennino hopes to offer wine in the near future. 
"Wine makes a nice compliment to cheese," he stated, but it would be served under strict regulations. Anyperson purchasing wine would have to show positive identificaiton of legal age and would be allowed to buy only one glass at a time with a five-glass limit for the night. 
Pennino stated that no beer or liquor and no hotdogs or ham­burgers will be served so as to keep the atmosphere of Nazz refined. 

Ford ~vvilling to znake Nixon tapes public 
By DONALD LAMBRO 

WASHINGTON <UPI) President Ford said Sunday he is willing to make public the tapes of any conversations between himself and former President Richard M. Nixon in the White House prior to Nixon's resignation.
The only condition Ford placed upon such disclosure was the approval of the Watergate special prosecutor. 
There has been no indication so far whether any Ford-Nixon tapes exist. But the question whether Ford would release any that were found, which arose initially in connection with an investigation of wheth­er Ford agreed to pardon Nixon before the former President left office, had never before gotten such an unqualified affirmative answer. 
In a wide-ranging interview, Ford also said he has told no one on his White House staff of possible Cabinet changes he may be considering; that Nelson A. Rockefeller's vice presidential nomination is being The Nazi also offers continuous 

live music performed by members 
of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's 
community. Approximately ten 
groups and individuals volunteer 
to play between St. Mary's cof­
feehouse and Nazz. 
"We play for our won pleasure," said one of last Saturday's per­formers. The five who played last Saturday all agreed, however, that, "Ittends to be a concert. The people seem inhibited from talking for fear of disturbing the perfor­mers." 
In comparing Nazz to the SMC coffeehouse, located in the basement of the dining hall, the musicians said that the SMC crowd tends to be loud and sometimes rowdy. "The at­mosphere here (the Nazz) is much morecompatiblefor playing," they agreed. 
Anyone may perform at the coffeehouse. Folk music, jazz, blues, and any kind of skits are welcomed. Rock is not encouraged due to the hall's size. Pennino hoped he could acquire the ND jazz band later this year. 
Financially sound 
Financially, Nazz is keeping its ~ head above water, Pennino said. The small profit received from the concessions is sent to a general fund to purchase new tables and 
candles. Other expenses are covered by student government.. 
scrutinized under "a pretty stringent standard" by Con­gress, but that he believes Rockefeller still will be confir­med; and that the Republican Party's prospects in next month's elections are "not as pessimistic" as the polls indicate. 
The President made these and other remarks in a discussion with reporters aboard Air Force One as he returned to Washington Satur­day night from a three-state campaign swing thr.ough the south in behalf of Republican candidates. Ford asked that his remarks be held for release until Sunday night. 
The President said he hoped his historic testimony last Thursday before a House Judiciary subcommittee had satisfied any remaining ques­tions over his unconditional pardon of Nixon from anyWatergate crimes. 
"Congress had its oppor­tunity, and I really believe that I answered any questions they asked," he said. 
• • • , • ' ........ J ..' 
:
•
!
• 
:
•
! 

IVJICHIGAN STREET i .ADULT THEATRES i 
X 2 FlLIVB ! X BOCJ(SIUIE !• 
•
X LIVE FLCXE SHOW : 1316 SCXJrH MICHIGAN STREET ; • 
• 

• 
i.5ei-.~.~!~:.1.~J!t.E9Ji.L~f.9&MADgHJ 


SENIORS! 
Part of the bill paid by studen­tgovernment is a charge of $4.50 per night to keep the basement of LaFortune open past midnight. Pennino commented, "The Student Union should be open twenty-four hours a day, and at least on the weekends." 

He was also concerned about the renovation of LaFortune. Presently none of the $250,000 
STOP • • • AND GET 
allotment will be spent on the basement. "Now with Darby's and Nazz, the basement is used more than any other place besides the 
YOUR SENIOR CLUB 
Huddle," he said. Work on the Huddle has been delayed until spring. 
According to Fr. David 
CARD . . . THIS 
Schlaver, Chairman of Student Activities, money is not a problem. "I don't feel that money would 

AFTERNOON AT
stand in the way. The Trustees have already granted the money. They're interested in it if it is being used, he stated. He said thatno 
THE LAFORTUNE
plans have been drawn up to renovate the basement. Overlooking anything extremenly drastic, he commented that funds 


MAIN LOBBY
could also be gotten from the maintenance allowance. 
Monday, October 21, 1974 
the observer 
9 

Notre Dame \VOmen attend 
Midwest 
by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame was represented at the Fall conference of the Midwest Association. of Physical Education College Women last weekend with physical education instructor Astrid Hotvedt. Two students, Ellen Hughes, and Barb Breesmen, accompanied Hotvedt to the meeting held in Angola, Indiana, October 1o-12 and were present for the opening address by Dr. JoAnn Thorpe. . 
Breesrrien reacted to the address by saying, "It's really good that they're trying to do something for women athletes. Hopefully, universities will recognize that women have more potential than they give them credit for." 
Thorpe's speech dealt with the 
philosophical aspects of women in 
competition, and pointed out the 
traditional stereotyped idea of women in the kitchen versus women athletes. Thorpe stated that young girls have identified with stereotypes and have not given themselves a chance to discover an interest in athletics. 
She ssssalso raised the age~ld question, "ll a woman wants to be an athlete, can she also be feminine, and ·vice-versa?" Thorpe concluded giving her opinion that women athletes are healthier, have better figures, and a re definitely feminine. 
Another issue discussed at the convention concerned the legal status of women in athletics and their right to equal athletic op-­portunities. The big question left unresolved at the end oof the convention was, "Is separate but equal equitable?-reasonable?" 
According to Hotvedt, "Everybody had their own answer, and the positions varied with the size and situation of each college represented. The problems will be 
Notre Dame prayer book to be revived 
by Martha Fanning which the ones that will be in-Staff Reporter 
eluded in the prayer book can be 
selected. 
The campus ministry is in the Contributions can be brought to process of reviving an old the office of the campus ministry tradition--the Notre Dame Prayer in the library or given personally 
Book. In charge of the project are to either Dr. Storey or Fr. Dr. William Storey of the theology McNally·
When the book will be ready is 
department and Fr. Thomas not definite. Substantial progress
McNally C.S.C. of the campus
ministry. toward publication is hoped for 
"We are trying to meefthe needs within the next few months. of today's students. Many of them The old prayer book, which has feel a real need for prayer and are all but disappeared from the looking for help and guidance," campus, was once one of the most McNally stated. Storey and familar objects at Notre Dame. 
McNally hope the book will not Found in many places such as the only appeal to members of Notre Sacred Heart Church and hall Dame and St. Mary's but also to chapels, the sixty-four page book students everywhere. · contained a large assortment of 
The contents of the new Notre prayers. Included were prayers at 
Dame Prayer Book are currently Mass, prayers for success, being decided. Storey and litanies, and a prayer for sinners. McNally plan on a section of At many spots on the campus the liturgical morning and evening books were made available to prayers. This will include well students free of charge. As time 
known psalms, prayers and passed, however, supplies dwin­readings from the scriptures. The died and were never replenished. largest section will be set aside for The old Notre Dame prayer book prayers that the students find served the students well,"
helpful such as St. Francis's McNally concluded. "Although it 
t. '11 will be far different in both ap­~f:Je~eforae!fl~ble Af~~c ~:ay~~s pearance and contents we hope written by Notre Dame and St. that the new prayer book will serve Mary's students. the new generation of students 
As the book is for the students, equally well." 
get feedback and advice from students about what they want and 
I 

need," commented McNally. They are encouraged to con-
I 

tribute prayers which they per-
I sonally like whether they be traditional or original works of 
I 

their own. Storey and McNally are 
at this time trying to compile a 
f 

large variety of praye_rs from W;!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::;::;:. ' 
l:l: *TONYS* ·::::: t



I I:,
SHOE SHOP 
Ico:::T:::::~:J I 
l:l: TOP BRAND FOOTWEAR ~lj t ;:;j KNAPP SHOES ~:: f 
llll LEATHER AND l@ t ~~ ZIPPER REPAIR ~~l t
IACCESSORIES II 
~:~: QUICK SERVICE =~~ t fi ~::::~~~-FRI ~~~1 f 
.,.. 9-4 SAT ···· f 
athletic conference 
in implementation and stncere cooperation by the present establishment." 
The keynote speaker of the conference was Althea Gibson, former undefeated world tennis champion and current professional golfer. 
"She was an inspiration to everyone, young and old," said Hotved. "She had to overcome the prejudice of being poor, black, a high school drop-out, and a woman, but she believed in herself and didn't mind working very hard. She's also a talented singer and performer, and a very feminine person." 
According to Hotvedt, Gibson focused on the idea that existing expectations of women's athletic abilities are not high enough to push even the talented woman to her greatest achievements. "They could be so much better," agreed Hotvedt, "if they were trained like men are trained." 
The female college athlete is the main focus of discussion at the university level throughout the nation this year. _ The Midwest 
Association of Physical Education 
Thru Octob• Near Lake. w·awasee. 
STOKELY C~RMJCBAEL Tue. Oct. 22 "RACIST 'CAPITALISM" 8:00.-9:30 p.m. Room 117 Bagger Ball Free ADMISSIQN  
THE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE announces AUDITIONS for BEAUTY AND THE BEAST Nov. Sand 6 at7:00 P.M. O'Laughlln Auditorium (St. Mary's) No Tryout Preparation Necessary OPEN' TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS  
wr~KEND JOB Indiana's Largest ~ake Developer Needs Several Ambitious Seniors Or Grad Students To Work Weekends  

College Women includes colleges in the states of Michigan, Indiana, d Ohio, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Gas Pai _. Free Housing. 
and lllinois. M • • $50
Concerning the situation at 1n1mum Notre Dame, Hotvedt said, "I'm CALL C. STONE ·( ('). ~ _9) 636-7189 
very enthusiastic with the greater ~ 
opportunities for women in :--__ -_ _ _ ____ athletics at the competitive level ~
I 

both here and nationally." ··• 
PRES.ENTING.• 't 
"I appreciate the access to good f 'l't' th ' f' ld h k
aci I Ies e women s Ie oc ey 
f h Th d •fjlf • I 
team has. Practicing on the t t e UfS av nl speCIQ t
A t t f d th I' hts · d 
s ro ur un er e 1g IS goo for skill development,'' she ' commented. ' "I would like to establish a 
1 

women's athletic advisory council 
f 

for advising the direction of women's athletics at Notre 
I 

Dame," she said. Anybody wishing to discuss her athletic t interests is enouraged to call 
Hotvedt at the Rockne Memorial, 
f 

6222. 
Hotvedt outlined her goals as a t part of Notre.Dame "I enjoy teaching and my first respon-t sibility is to develop skill, fitness, ., 
and enjoyment in various ac­tivities," she admitted. t '·I'd like to be part of developing a rational and equitable women's 
I 

athletic program. My lifetime goal 
f 

is to influence students to be more aware as spectators who have some knowledge of the activities 
f 

'1' • $1 50
1 PIZZO --• 25~ DRAFT 
Eat, drink, and be entertained by live music nightly (except Tuesday> AT 
VVJ-IITE HQUSE 1NN 
Now Playing 
···KE··r··Ot···:.. 
.,••••••••• Cuarge 
f 

2 8 3 9 N 5th 
It

683-9o Al'l ,-­
Just 8 mi. north of the state line. 0'+~ Take U.S. 31 north to'Niles, then north on highway 5 3 miles. 
I -' 
1f 
I
I I 1 I 
n0 
cover t 
L-....-:: 1 

they watch," she continued. ----------------­
"it's absolutely essential that we ·r----------------------~------=-~--.-:·;._~f 





DANCING LESSONS 


FRAN DEMARCO ­
~~l~ PH 283-1144 · ~ll t 
» I
.... ;.-., J. 
.#;;::::::::::x:l:O'~~~:::.::I!C:~'C~ 
----------------------------------.,j 
Monday, October 21, 1974
1 0 the observer 
r----------------~
I SANSUI AU-101 I 
1 amplifier 1

Audio Specialists 
LRedu~ed $30.0~ ~~w_ 599.9~ J 
I PIONEER SX-525 I 
l receiver l

INFLATION BEATERS Ll Now only 5195.00 I 
----------------~ 
r--------------~-,
I TEAC 220 I 

WHIP INFLATION NOW!®--1 cassette deck 1 
.,_ _________________ 
1 while they last 5149.95 1 

1 1 1-----------------,r-----------------, -----------------­
1 TEAC 210 I 1 All MARANTZ I I Blonder Tongue I I cassette deck I I in stock I : FM antenna : :_ __No~~nlt_ __~l_l_9.9~_j t____~_S% ~ff lis!._ ____ j L__sa~~~~SO% _519.95___: -----------------,r-----------------1 r-----------------.
I DUAL 1216 I SANSUI AU-6500 1 SANSUI EIGHT DELUXE 1
l turntable l1 amplifier ~ : receiver : 
• I Was '154.95 I I Reduce.d '80.00 I 1 SAVE '150.00 I109 95 $179 95 s449 95 
I Now only • I I Take 1t home • I L Reduced to • -----------------~L-----------------~ -----------------1 -----------------~r-----------------1 -----------------~
I PIONEER CT-31 31 I I PIONEER SX-424 1 BSR 81 0/X 1
l cassette deck 1 1 receiver l l turntable l 1 Was '199.95 St29 95 I I Save 25% $149 95 I I List '~69.80 $159 95 I 
1 Reduced to • I I Now • I L Take 1t home • 
-----------------~1-----------------~ -----------------·1 
i------sHuRE M91ED_____I r-----sANsulsEVEN -----·1 ~---sHERwooD s-12oo---~ 
I t •d I I . • I •
car r1 ge 1 1 rece1ver 1 I rece1ver I 
1 

1 '~~~9:r:!~t s19.95 l : w;~ :!~!5 5335.00 l l w~!~3!!;:s 5289.95 !
L _____________________________________ L----------------­~-------------------------------------r----------------~ 
I sAsF 12oo' l l All KOSS headphones lI ADvENT n I 
: tape 1 1 in stock 1 I speakers I 
IL while they last 51.79 : : 2 5o/o OFF LIST : : A super bargain 558.00 : 
------------------------------------L-----------------1 QUANTITIES LIMITED SALE ENDS SATURDAY AT 5 PM 



ND icers dump defending NCAA champ Minnesota 
(continued from page 12) 

out and doing a job."
"I am really pleased with our young club," noted Smith, "especially how they handled the pressure of both the overtime and playing NCAA champs Min­nesota, they weren't in awe." 
"The kids didn't lose their cool when they got disorganized, they just settled down and came back, playing the basics. Everyone gave a full effort, which means everything to our young club." 
"We really needed that win," explained team captain Paul Clarke, "because we have a lot of talent, yet at the same time we were very unsure of our-

Irish whitewash Army 48-0 
(continued from page 12) 
us an idea of their performance," said Backfield Coach Tom Pagna. "Wayne had a great game, but his bruised shoulder (suffered in practice this week) was aggravated early in the first quarter, and we felt it necessary to take him out. AI Samuel had perhaps his best game of the year, and his performance on the pitch­sweep really impressed us." 
Samuel's final carry of the day was a brilliant 35-yard touchdown run around right end behind the blocking of Wujciak and Kornman. 
"The game-by-game experience I've had, along with the coaching, has helped me become a better runner," said Samuel. "Running the pitch is just a matter of reading the blocks and turning the corner. After that, it's all up to me." 
ND's final score, a pitchout from Frank Allocco to senior Tom Bake around left end, ended the scoringfestivities for the Irish. Dave Reeve converted on six of seven PAT's, and punter Tony Brantley saw action only once, getting off a 36-yarder. All in all, Parseghian sent 68 players into the game, something all the coaches wanted to do. "Morale and confidence are very important to each player, and working hard in practice day after day for the preppers is rewarded in the opportunity for them to play." 
Defensive line Coach Joe Yonto agreed with Parseghian. "You can never be 'too deep', for there is always the possibility that through some unforeseen circumstance, you may lose your key player and his back-up. . . We wanted to see the back-ups play as much as they could today, not only for their experience for the rest of this season, but for our evaluation of them for next fall." 
FOOTBALL SPECIAL 
"We were definitely pleased in the super job the defense did," said Yonto. "We shut off their running game, and forced them to pass. With that phase of their game below par, they really didn't have any other alternative except to run." 
The Irish "D",led by co-captain Greg Collins, limited the Cadets to total yardage of 89 yards, allowing only eight yards through the air. Cadet Quarterbacks Scott Gillogly and Greg McGlasker could manage only one completion in fourteen attempts for the af­ternoon, and the leading runner for Army was freshman back Marcus Hardy. 
"We stopped everything that was thrown at us," noted Steve Niehaus, who was in on five tackles, one resulting in a 20-yard loss for the Cadets. "We were psyched to play, and Army gave us our chance to do that." 
Coach Homer Smith was ex­trememly disappointed over his team's poor showing against the Irish. "We worked very hard to have a chance to possibly beat Notre Dame," Smith said. "When you come up short it is bitterlydisappointing. 
The Irish were a little more 

The Notre Dame-St. M cry's 
Theater announces 
TRYOUTS 
FELLOWS 

by Christopher Ceraso (Premiere Production) Sun., Oct. 20 and Mon., Oct. 21 7:00P.M. Washington Hall (Use rear stairway entrance) Cast Needs Two Men Only No Preparation Necessary 
selves. This win assured us we have the stuff it takes to win." Notre Dame has begun their hockey campaign with a win that was not important for league stan­dings, but for their competitive attitude. The Irish players can begin to believe in themselves, along with the disappointingly few fans at Friday night's con­test. It all starts next weekend in the Zoo-sometimes known as Dane County Coliseum, home of ths Wisconsin Badgers. The key to Irish success is hustle and W. Clement Stone's PMA (Positive Mental At­titude), an attitude this eager squad has. 
optimistic. As Wayne Bullock put it, "I hope we did jell this game; it was a long time overdue." 
Hockey stats 
SCORE IV PERIODS NV .. -..................... I I I 1-2 Mlmi ......•......~_. .... J •• ~I 
FIRST PElllOD Scoring: M -VIrant (Fredrickson)11:%%. 
Penalties: ND ...;. P. Clarke.--(tllghs­llckJag) 2 min. 5:11; ND -Browiii!Chl· die (rouglllng) 2 min. 12:5e; M-MWer (blghsticklng) 2min. 12:58; M-Harris (elbowing) 2 min. II: 19. 
Saves: Peterson (ND) I; Moea (II) 8. . SECOND PERIOD Scoring: ND -Movlt2kl (Un88Bisted) 8:17. 
Penalties: ND -Augustine (highs­licking) %'llin. 1:45; M -Baker (lllghs­tlcking) 2 min. I:45; M -Holmgren (elbowing) 2 min. 4:48; M--' Frederick· soa (Interference) 2 mi!l. 14:«1; M -ScbneiderJelbowlng) 2 min. 18:48. 
Saves: oher (I'/D) 8; Moen (M) 13. THIRD PERIOD Scoring: none. 
Penalties: ND -OUve (slll!lhlng) 2 min. %:56; ND -T. Byers ( tripping) 2 min: 6:54;\ ND -Conter {Interference) 
2mm. 12:•. Sav~s: Caron (ND) 24; Moen (M) 8. 
OVERTUIE Scoring: ND -OUve (Pirus) 7:16. Penalties: none. _ SaVI'S: Caron (ND) 2; Moen (M) 6. 
~-----~-----------~-....... 
Monday, October 21, 1974 
• 

.. 
Sophomore de_t~nseman Jack Brownschilde helped anchor a tough ND defense. The 1r1sh leers held defending NCAA champion Minnesota to only one goal in three plus periods ofaction. 



CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Wanted: 4 student fix to Miami game, Oct. 26. If you're going home let me have your tix. Call 234-1889, Trace. 
Need ride back to N D after Oct. break-from North Dakota or N.W. Minn. Call Tom, 3306. 
Need ride to New Orleans, La. or anywhere near tor Oct. break. Will share $ and driving. Call Marie, 8085. 
Needed: camping equipment for October break: tents, mess kits, fishing poles, etc. Will rent or buy. Call Observer, 8661. 
Need 2 GA tix for Pitt game. Will pay top dollar. Call Steve, 3123. 
Need 2 or 4 GA tix for Pitt. Call Frank, 287-7026. 
Need 7-8 GA or student tix for Pitt. Call Chuck, 1592. 
Need one Pitt ticket desperately. Call Lisa at 3351. 
Badly need a ride to St. Louis for October break. Call Hogle at 1612. 
Ride needed to Phila-NJ area on Thurs. Oct. 24. Call 8736. 
Need 2 GA tickets for Pitt. Tom, 288-2613. 
Need ride to Boston for Oct. break. Call Jane, 7995. 
Riders wanted to Kansas City for Oct. break. Steve, 8198. 
Wanted: 2 GA fix tor Miami. Please call 4508. 
Need 1 Pitt GA ticket. Call Nick, 1553. 
Ride wanted to CALIFORNIA during Oct. break. Call Tom, 3191. 
Need 1 ticket for Pitt game. Call 1132. 
Irish Lampoon needs articles, cartoons, stories. $. Call 272-8724 between 9 & 11:30 p.m. 
NOTICES 
24 hr. TV repair service, 7 days a week, Sundays and holidays. Color TV's $60 and up. Stereo units $50 and up. Call Western Electronic:.: 282-1955. 
Will do typing of any kind. Call 233­
44114. 
Typing: electric typewriter; carbon ribbon available. Call Michele, 232·9061. 
Legal problem, but no money? NO Legal Aid can help. Call 283-7795, M-F, 1-4 p.m. 
But You've Got to Have Friends: Gay Students of Notre Dame P.O. Box 1702 South Bend, 1nd. 46601 
Portrait sketches make neat Christmas gifts. Satisfaction is guaranteed. Call Rosy Elias, 5274, charge $3. 
Car problems? Come to Hoffman Bros. Eddy at Madison. Wholesale prices to ND-SMC student, faculty, and staff do-it-yourselfers. Repair service also available. Since 1929. 234-0191. 
FOR SALE 
YeSYeSYeSmA lnYeSYeSfLOOrYeSYeSYeS2153. 
10-speed 26" Schwinn continental. Excellent cond. Call 8849. 
Pioneer PL-51 turntable with Audio Technica AT-15S cartridge, $290. With AT-12S $260. Call Ed, 1487. 
Sherwood 58900-A Dynaquad FM receiver. 60 watts RMS. 9 mos. old. $300. CaII before 2: 30. 232-8854. 
LOST AND FOUND 
$20 reward -gold wedding ring inscribed "TJH" "8-11-72." Leave ring and name with Law School Secretary, first floor. 
PERSONALS 
Liz: Happy Birthday, Sweet Sixteen. Stay as beautiful as you are. 
Love, Kenny 
Martin "Hoosier" Armbruster: Happy 21st, you Gaymont. The 'Brary Spitballers 
Desperately need ride to Cleveland around break time. Will share expenses. Call Tom, 8634. 
Hey Sally D: What a coincidence, you're from Massachusetts too? 
a secret admirer 
Hey 514 McCandless: Thanks for a great time! 1 ap­preciated your call but couldn't you think up anything to rhyme with Scott? 
Your Pal 
WHALE JOB: HAPPY BIRTHDAY. CRAMAC 
cardinal Puff says here's to Whale's birthday for the first time. Once a whale, always a whale. Happy b'rthdayt 
The girls of 414 • 
Monday, October 21, 1974
12 the observer 




'0' rolls, Irish blank Cadets 48-0 
..,. . "'~> & ....~{,-· 
by Bill Delaney 
For many years there has been an old saying that the Army travels on its stomach. Well, the trip back to West Point for Army Coach Homer Smith and his Cadets certainly had to be a long crawl. The fact that the Fighting Irish whitewashed Army Saturday afternoon, 48-o might have had something to do with it. 
In a game that marked the second half of Notre Dame's season, confidence and con­sistency were the two goals the Irish pursued. 
"We had been working in our game preparation this week on cutting down on our mental mistakes and thereby not allowing our opponents any breaks against us," noted Head Coach Ara Parseghian. "Army just had the misfortune to meet us on the rebound Saturday. Our mistakes ­both fumbles and penalties -have consistently hurt us all year. When we fumbled at the goal line in the first quarter, I thought 'Here we go again.', but I was really pleased with our team's reaction to the error." 
Fortunately, Wayne Bullock's fumble in the end zone after a 57­yard Irish drive provided Notre Dame the incentive to go on to score. "After the fumble, we just got together and decided we just had to put it together," said center Mark Brenneman after the game. "It was a total team effort, and the effort put forth by everyone made the game what it was. We definitely needed a game where we could solidify, and Army provided the opportunity to do it." 
Brenneman, AI Wujciak, Steve Sylvester, Gerry DiNardo and Ed Bauer <replacing the injured Steve Neece> provided holes allowing Irish backs to gain 525 yards and 30 first downs rushing, a new Notre Dame record. 


The Irish Eye 


There must have been some mixed emotions among Saturday's honored guests. 
No doubt Don Miller and Jim Crowley, the two surviving members of NO's famous Four Horsemen, were pleased with their alma mater's crushing 48-o win over rival Army. But in the back of their minds they probably realized, and with a tinge of sadness, that the "old rivalry" was a thing of the past, just as they were. 
It ·was 50 years ago to the day, Saturday, that the Irish defeated a stubborn Army team 13-7 in New York's Polo Grounds and Grantland Rice penned those legendary words, "Outlined against a blue-gray Oc­tober sky, the Four Horsemen rode .... " 
The basis of the legend, of course, was a long standing Army-Notre 
~~~e tradition, one that extended all the way to that famous o-o tie in 
But now it's all gone. 
In it's last six meetings with Army, dating back to 1965, Notre Dame has allowed the Cadets a total of only 13 points. In those nine years Army, as well as Navy and Air Force, has lost that competitve edge. Army has most likely suffered the most, but all three service academies can no longer compete with major college football powers. 
Air Force has been the best of the three and Navy upset Penn State this season, but on the whole they are severely outclassed. 
The problem obviously lies with recruiting. In a day and age where high school hot shots are offered the world and th17n some, the ser~ice academies can't come close. What they do offer 1s a good education, career opportunities and quite realistically a chance to see the world. 
They also offer discipline, demand four more years active duty, and for now, offer their players no chance for professional football right after school. 
"You don't come to Army to play football," said Cadet running back Markus Hardy. "The institution is set up to train people to be career officers. They're just thinking career Army. If a guy comes here to play football, he's coming with the wrong attitude." 
Obviously this hurts recruiting. Hardy, a speedy back who returned a kickoff 100 yards for a touchdown against Duke, was only recruited in his home state. "I was recruited by Eastern Kentucky, Western Ken­tucky and the University of Kentucky, but that wasn't a full ride." 
Greg McGlasker, the Cadets starting quarterback, had a slighty dif­ferent story.
"I wasn't recruited by anybody," he said. "I went to Army just for the education and when I got there, I decided to try out for the football team." Linebacker Sal Colatarci wanted a good education, but didn't have the 
money. 
I" ranked high academically and had a lot of lyy League offers," said the senior from Wayne, New Jersey, "but I wasn't offered much mo­ney. I wanted to play football and I wanted to play good schools and West Point offers this challenge." 
Still, both Hardy and Colatarci admit that had they been recruited by major colleges they would have gone there instead of West Point. Ap­parently this is the choice most high school athletes make. 
What will the service academies have to do to become competitive agam?"I think," offered Hardy, "that you either have to get a program to fit the schedule or a schedule to fit the program." 
"We can play the Ivy League schools and do well, but it wouldn't mean much," counters Colatarci. "I'm all for playing the major schools. What we have to do is put a little more effort into recruiting good football players."
"I think the service academies are on the up-cycle," said Ara Par­seghian. "The Vietnam war is over and for a decade that made the military unpopular. But I think they are returning to the prestige they had before. Army is a lot better this year than they were last year and I think all three service academies will continue to improve. 
"The thing that hurts them of course is that their kids aren't given the chance to play pro football." 
That problem may be remedied. There is now a plan in the works allowing service adademy graduates to go on to professional football while stretching their active duty obligations over a longer period of time. 
If this happens and if it helps remains to be seen. . 
The truth is that it may become painfully obvious that top athletes m this day and age would much rather forego the rigors of military life for that of a celebrity at a top football school. Nobody can blame them. 
Until attitudes do change or programs improve, the service academies, especially Army, ought to stay in their league. 
"We worked hard all week because we knew Army had a tough team," said guard AI Wujciak. "Our execution was really fine, and we opened great holes for our backs, and they took it from there." 
The starting backfield of Wayne 'the train' Bullock, halfbacks Art Best and AI Samuel and quar­terback Tom Clements contributed 329 to the Irish rushing game, with Samuel gaining 124 yard•s on 12 carries for one touchdown, and Bullock carrying 24 times for 112 yards, with two TO's. 
"We went back to the basics this week, and decided to run the pitch­sweep with Best or Samuel running the ball." commented Parseghian. "We thought we could run against Army, and the guard's ef­fectiveness in executing the seal block on that particular play permitted Samuel and Best to 
sweep around end really well." 
The pitch-sweep and fullback drives were the key offensive weapons. The Irish had seven scoring drives, the longest one of 73 yards by the second unit late in the fourth quarter. 
Bullock started the afternoon scoring. A 59-yard drive, featuring a 14-yard sweep behind Wujciak and Tom Fine (who replaced Pete Demmerle, hurt early in the first quarter) ended with Wayne plunging in behind Wujciak for the score. 
Bullock accounted for another Irish score in the second quarter, this time culminating a 56-yard drive. His slant off left tackle gave the Iri!;h their second score. Clements' 7-yard keeper, capping 
.,. if' ~.:.. -~. ~ '· ~·~ } .. · 
+ · lS ~· "' 
k. · ··" '+':.·' "' 
·~ ·. · ~~· ~~ , ..~·._:... 
. . "f :· ~~ . . . . ·~,.,. :.t...:~.' , .;..., , .,IIi, 
. .-.....;;.., """'" 
'$ h , ~
l1 / ,.,.. ' 
·~ · ·.., · "' 
,f· 
-; . "\ ~ 
r \. _ ¥ 
· Ji:}, 
.\,·.'lit~ ,..... ;\ . .. ( .. 
~•.•~# v ~ 
', . 
~~~~··' . ~-· .. 
. '·4).
,.:l_-. ·..:· . 
..., 
A wall of tacklers is just what this was. The Irish defense allowed Army only 89 offensive yards, and only one completed pass. 
the final drive of the first half, capped 72 and 41 yard drives 
made the score 20-o at the half. respectively for the Irish. 
The Irish put 28 points on the "We were very pleased in our 
scoreboard during the second backs' play, but more importantly, 
half, scoring three times in the the ability to give everyone a 
third quarter and once in the chance to display their talent gives 
fourth. Fullback Russ Kornman's 
(continued on page 11) 
runs of seven and four yards 
--->~. 'fa ...
~~-'.~~:ft''" --· 
.,....,.-.., t.. .....""'" ~-~:~ .' t, ;:4 
~;· :.'~ ., -· • .~ .~ A.-.'" , 
~· v ~ ~ ·~-•. 
,.



,t.\.. 
.~s..,
~;! 
' 
~. 

.. _ 
AI Samuel slides through the snow and over guard AI Wujclak enroute to a 12 vard pickup. Samuel finished the afternoon with 124 yards on 12 carries and one touchdown. 


leers drop Gophers in OT 
By Bob Kissel 
Exciting--YES. Surprising-YES. Unbelievable­NO. It was not unbelievable to the meager 1833 fans who saw the Notre Dame hockey team defeat defending NCAA champion Minnesota 2-1 in sudden death overtime Friday night. 
Neither ND coach Lefty Smith nor Minnesota coach Herb Brooks had to play the ten minute overtime period, but both coaches wanted to win, exhibition game or not. 
With just over seven minutes gone in overtime, Alex Pirus and Mark Olive cruised into the Minnesota zone with a twoo()no()ne advantage. Pirus took the initial shot , a low blast from forty feet out. Minnesota goaltender Bill Moen made the initial save, but when the puck dropped to the ice from between his pads, Mark Olive smiled and slapped it home for the winner. 
The duo effort by Olive and Pirus does not tell the whole winning story. Sophomore Dave Caron played solidly in the third and overtime periods allowing no goals while saving 24 shots during the furious Min­nesota onslaught in the third period. 
From the start the Irish came out hitting, both on the forecheck and on the backcheck. The defensive pairs of Jack Brownschildle and Paul Clarke, Roger Bourque and Les Larson kept ND in the game all the way, breaking up numerous Minnesota offensive rushes. 
Minnesota opened scoring when Mike Virrant lifted the puck past freshman goalie John Peterson at 16:22 of the opening session. The Golden Gophers dumped the puck into the Irish zone to start the scoring sequence. Bryan Fredrickson won the race to the corner and got off a sharp angle shot to the ND net. Peterson made the save, but when the freshman out of Montreal had trouble controlling the rebound, Virant was there to push the puck through for Min­nesota's 1-o lead. Peterson had nine saves against eight for Moen in the opening period. 
Notre Dame got a little help from a friend, fresh­man Tony Dorn, in tallying their initial goal. Goalie Moen wanted to sweep the rebound from Paul Clarke's blueline shot left, while Dorn wanted to clear right. When their sticks met, the puck popped into the net for the equalizer. Pat 'Moose' Novitski's goal begins his annual "scoring rampage" for the '74-'75 season. 
Caron was not the only goaltender who played well, for freshman Len Moher held the Gophers scoreless, turning back eight Minnesota shots in the second period. 
"I thought after tonight I'd be able to make a decision about the No. 1 goalie," remarked Coach Smith. "but all three proved to be capable of going 
(continued on page 11) 




