e OD The laslde 

I 
Local bar problems ... page 4 

1 
Letters ... page 7 
J 
~ 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VI, No. 110 Friday, April 19, 1974 
SLC eliminates alcohol rules 
by Tom Kruczek Staff Reporter 
In a special meeting yesterday, the Student Life Council voted to temporarily eliminate existing guidelines pertaining to alcohol consumption on campus. After passing the proposal, the Council stressed that the responsibility now rests with the students, not the University, to comply with Indiana's drinking law. 
The proposal, submitted by Dennis Etienne, recommended the suspension last until April 22. This action resulted form Indiana Court of Appeals' ruling which extended legal liability to any persons serving intoxicating beverages to minors. 
In a response to a question by Dean of Students John Macheca, Entienne clarified the proposal. "It means that the dean of students office will be temporarily out of the picture for parties and their approval and it is going back to the halls," he said. 
Dr. Phillip Faccenda then commented that he was in favor of the motion for the suspension of the guidelines. "What we are doing is suspending the registering of parties and the like out of the dean's 
The SLC's suspension of this year's alcohol guidelines will last until April 22. Meanwhile,office and putting it at the hall level." 
responsibility for alcohol consumption rests on the individual. (Staff photo by Paul Joyce) 

Student responsibility occur, all those responsible for letting him have that guidelines have been dropped for the weekend which
first drink, and that goes from the rector to the hall 
regulate the campus social activity. No permissionsA voice vote was taken, and the proposal was ap­president, to the RA, all the way down, must bear the fof[ pa ties will be granted by the Dean, and now it is upproved. After its approval, Macheca and Faccenda liability." 

to the individual student to meet the obligations of the both asked that students realize their responsibility "The test now is not any longer for the person to be Indiana state law. The students are made aware of the under the new law, and that even though they are on drunk. It is now the minute he has that first drink, that law, and now it is up to them as individuals," he said. 

campus, they will have to comply with Indiana state th~ responsibility begins. For an adult, intoxication is 
law. still the test for a court case." 
Michigan drinking

The law, as Faccenda explained to the group, makes Dr. Fred Syburg, professor of Speech and drama, two things clear. First, the university is responsible observed, "The proposal states that we can get by until for the actions of those who are under age if there is Monday if the Dean of Students gives no permission for The question also was brought up of the previous knolwledge by the University of the providing parties and if we are reminded of the Indiana state availability of Michigan to the students and their lower of alcohol to those under 21. Second, those in authority law." age for legal drinking. It was pointed out that the must act to prevent those under age from obtaining the University is responsible for the actions of students if alcohol. An Tostal implications the alcohol is purchased in Michigan, but if it is drunk 
Faccenda added that because of this law, "Everyone on campus.However, the University is not responsible connected with the actions of the person after he has Faccenda commented on the implications for the if the alcohol is drunk in Michigan or if it is drunk off his first drink is responsible, and if an incident should coming weekend an the An Tostal celebration. "The campus. 



Symposium begun on 
American foreign policy 
by Joel Burian Staff Reporter "The peace of the world is in a cradle that is being rocked by the major world powers; however, no one is willing to steady it." 
These remarks were made last evening by the featured speaker, Dr. Charles Burton Marshall, at the first meeting of the Symposium on "American Foreign Policy in the Post-Vietnam Era," sponsored by the Notre Dame Department of Government and International Studies at the Center for Continuing Education. 
Dr. Stephen Kertesz, Director of the University's Institute for International Studies, opened the symposium stating that problems to be considered for the next three days will deal with America's foreign policy in areas of world peace, and relationships with the Soviet Union, Western Europe and the Middle East as well as policies concerning the problems facing the Third World nations. 
Kertesz emphasized, in relation to the Third World countries, not only the United States, but all developed countries must establish policies to assist these un­derdeveloped countries. "The developed countries of the world must place on the same level as their own domestic policies, policies directed to aiding the Third World countries in their problems of hunger, education, and economic development," he said. 
Following Kertesz's opening remarks, the session moderator, George A. Brinkley, introduced the principal speaker of the evening, Dr. Marshall, Director of the In­stitute of International Studies at Johns Hopkins University. 
Marshall's address entitled "Detente: Reality or Rhetoric?", established a framework within which the next three days' sessions will be built. 
an unsteady balance of power Marshall began with a brief history of world peace including the period following World War I to World War II, the post-World War era, post-Korean War era, and today's short post-Vietnam War era. "In each period," stated Marshall, "there was always (and is today) a shift in at­titudes of the abolition of intervention in world hot spots by Major World Powers. The Powers being soft abolitionists or hard abolitionists on the question." He pointed out that the United States is now in a position of hard abolition, whereby a reduction of arms takes place. On the other hand, the Soviet Union is in the soft abolitionist state, where there is a buildup of military might. Today there is a so-called "balance of power", between the United States and the Soviet Union. However, "no one is willing to steady the cradle." Marshall feels, "In the minds of today's policymakers is the 'strategic image' based on the punitive 
(continued on page 14) 

No Easter parade: the "jocks" strut their finery before battling a formidable women's team. Despite the boxing gloves, they put up a good fight, but with a little help from the timekeeper, the women won 42-41. (Photo by Paul Joyce) 
Stick 'em up! "Hawk" Stevens Cin the dress) is on his guard as Mary Clemency attempts a pass-to one of her teammates, that is. "Hawk" was voted the game's least valuable player; Clemency, the most valuable player. (Photo by John Dlugolecki) 



.t • I j 
' 
Friday, April 19, 1974 

friday 
9 a.m. -5 p.m.-info, peace corps-vista representative, library lounge 10 a.m. -s!!minar p.j. achtemeler, moreau seminary 
1:30 
p.m.-jung conf., registration; symposium with film: shakespeare's "a midsummer night's dream." cce auditorium 

1:30 
p.m. -lecture, "contemporary civil-military relations" james toner, library lounge 2 p.m. -govt. symposium, american forelqn policy, george brinkley, marshall shulman, christopher osakwe. cce 


2:30p.m.-tennis, vs. central michigan u.5:30 p.m. mass and dinner, bulla shed 
6:30 p.m. -lacrosse, notre dame "b" squad vs. knox college carter field 7:30p.m.-concert, gene van accordlan, little theater 7:30p.m. -coffeehouse, music, refreshments, cartoons, howard hall chapel free 8 p.m. -govt. symposium, american foreign policy, fr.leonard tennyson, prof. edward goerner. cce 8 p.m.-jung conf., what kind of story are we In?" fr. john dunne. 
cce auditorium 8& 10 p.m., film, "high plains drifter", wash. hall, $1.00 
8:15p.m.-concert, south bend chamber music society, library aud. 8:30p.m. -lacrosse notre dame "a" squad vs. chicago lacrosse club, cartier field 
8:30 p.m.-concert, luther allison, stepan center free 9 p.m. -coffeehouse, choc. mllkshakes, 30 cents lower level 
cafeteria saturday 
9 a.m.-jung conf. symposium: c.w. tageson, john weir, perry, marvin splegelman. cce auditorium 9a.m.-govt. symposium, american foreign policy, robert byrnes, john campbell, theodore ivanus. cce 
9:30a.m., symposium, "women: choice and careers," sponsored by the mlchlana task force on occupational status of women and girls, choice of workshops, carroll hall 
12 pm-9pm, photo show, bob kincaid and ed earle"photographs, serigraphs, and, etc ... " photo gallery (beneath O'Laugh) 12 pm-9 pm, pottery show, debbie grlesmer, "stone ware forms", hammes gallery 12 pm-9 pm, art show, "student faculty show all media" upstlars 12­9, downstairs 12-5, moreau galleries 1 p.m., rugby, vs. illinois. games; 1 pm-"b"; 2 pm-"a", 3 pm­" c", stepan fields, free 
2 p.m., govt. symposium, american foreign policy, with alec che­mponda, peter walshe, peter moody, michael frahcls, claude pomerleau, cce 
2:30p.m., jung conf. symposium: n. glradot, louise mahdl, john manchester, cce auditorium 7:30p.m., concert, the beach boys, bleachers left, $3.50, ace 8 p.m. jung conf. dr. & mrs. john laney, dr. & mrs. bruce jewel, cce auditorium 
sunday 
9a.m.jung conf. symposium: thomas thels, charles hubbell, james helslg, cce auditorium 12 p.m.-9 p.m. art show, "student-faculty show-all media. up­stairs 12-9, downstairs 12-5, moreau gallery 1 p.m. tennis, vs. ohio state 
1:30 p.m. jung conf. colloquium: dean frederick crosson, morton kelsey, john meany, thomas kapaclnskas. round table discussion, open audience forum. cce auditorium 
2 p.m.-5 p.m. art show, "clowns on fire" all mediums. will run till may 19th. o'shag gallery 3 p.m. pool tournament, finals In billiards tournament, poolroom, 
free 3,7,9, p.m. film, walt disney's "dumbo" little theatre, 50 cents 5 p.m. jung conf. liturgy, sacred heart church 
6:30p.m. film, "mahanager" (the big city) sponsored by the notre dame Indian assoc. library aud. free 8 p.m. american character, "ben hecht" with jim sullivan, washington hall $1.00 8-10 p.m. photo show, debbie schrager, ann relfenragh, hammes gallery 
MECHA IS SPONSORING A 
Book Drive 
FOR PRISONERS IN 
STATE PRISONS Contribute your Spanish books or any others dealing with Spain or Latin America at the MECHA Ofllce--basemenf of LaFortune from 3-Spm Wed-Frl 
-
Numerous counts investigated 


Nixon disbar~nent considered 
NEW YORK <UPI) -The New York City Bar Association announced Thursday it was looking into the possibility of bringing disbarment proceed­ings against President Nixon. 
John Bonomi, head of the association's committee on dis­cipline, said the bar was scrutinizing the legal propriety of the President's actions in Watergate, the Ellsberg bur­glary and illegal campaign contributions. 
He also listed former Attor­ney General John N. Mitchell, 
Rodino airs threat of impeachment 
Hy IIOWARD FIELDS 
WASHINGTON <UPil -The chairman of the House Judici­~ry Committee Thursday re­Jected a White House compromise suggestion and said anything less than full compliance with the panel's subpoena of presidential tapes could be grounds for impeach­ment. 
Later, after Rep. Peter W. Rodino Jr., D-N.J., stated the impeachment panel's position 
U.S. District Judge John w: Sirica ordered a subpoena to be issued directing President Nixon to supply Watergate investigators with tapes and o_ther evidence covering about f1ve dozen White House conver­sations. 
Sirica, acting upon the request of Watergate special prosecutor Leon Jaworski di­rected Nixon to answer the' new subpoena by 10 a.m. (EDT) on May 2. Jaworski said the materials, which the White House has refused to hand over, were needed for use in the Watergate coverup trial that is due to begin Sept. 9. 
Discussing the subpoena his House committee sent Nixon earlier, Rodino rejected the suggestions of White House officials that the tapes be censored by the President or his aides before they are given to the impeachment inquiry panel. 
For revealing your true colors in a most original way 
streaking can hardly be 

overlooked! But for keeping 
up appearances in the most 
hig~-spirited styling, daring 
demgns and eye-opening 
hues, you'll also need the 
dashing fashion from 

Van Heusen -adventurous 
new shirts that always get 
noticed! 


lTIOflby 
VAN HEUSEN" 
David Young, former co­director of the White House "plumbers" group, and former white House aide Gordon Strachan as subjects of the inquiry. 
Bonomi described the probe as "a preliminary investigation to determine whether or not disciplinary action should be brought." 
Most of the information for the inquiry was provided by the office of special Watergate prosecutor Leon Jaworski and the Senate Watergate Commit­tee, Bonomi said. 
He said allegations against the President and other lic­ensed to practice law in New York were made last year by the National Organization of Bar Councils of Watergate Discipline, a committee within the Americican Bar Association <ABAl. 
In Washington, Jaworski said Thursday that pursuant to an agreement with the ABA only information already available 
~----------------=--·-·---·-­
THE ROMA 
welcomes our Notre Dame & St. Mary's friends 
your host, FRANK ANASTASIO 
*PIZZA* ITAllAN FOOD *LIQUOR:
Appearing this weekend for your dancing 
1 
pleasure: "Pleasant Street Band."' Live music 4 1 nites a week. We're open until 4 a.m. on weekends (fpr late nite munchies). 
1 
For deliveries call 234-3258 ,219 fll. Michigan Avenue Oowntown South BendCnext .to .Morris. Cl~lg___ ---·-·-. 
*HARRY SHAFFER* wants 
to be your transportation specialist. 
Call him for any questions concerning: 
to the public would be provided and to date has consisted soley of material that is part of the public record, particularly in­dictments or informations." 
The code of professional responsibility of the ABA forbids a lawyer to engage in "illegal conduct involving moral turpitude...dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresenta­tion," and also requires law­yers who know of such activity to report it. 
Should his committee recom­mend disbarment, Bonomi said the case would be heard by the Appellate Division which could order censure, suspension or disbarment. 

r---------------------~ 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester exc:ept vacations by the stuoents ot the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester (SUper year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

---~------~--~~~---~~-----------------­
Friday, Ap,ril 1.~r 1974.. the o.b~ E! ~V~f-
Legal aid given to local inmates 
by Mary Janca Staff Reporter 
In an experimental volunteer program, Notre Dame law students are giving basic legal instruction to inmates of the In­diana State Penitentiary in Michigan City. 
This four-week program, which began on Saturday April 6, was preceeded by a book campaign by students which added scores of law volumes to the prison library. 
Approximately ten law students have volunteered to participate in the regularly-scheduled seminars in the prison, said Law School Teaching Fellow Dr. Cathy Cekanski. Faculty members are also expected to become involved, she added. 
"A major goal of the program," according to its director, Tom McGill,'~is to provide assistance to inmates in such legal areas as the filings of motions before courts, explanation of parole con­siderations, and the review of trial transcripts." 
"Educational level t·aised" 
Through this program, Cekanski staed, the volunteers "raise the inmates' educational level" so they can better understand their own situation, and "to raise the awareness level" of inmates, so that they might become more 




8 CILA 
by Sue Nash Staff Reporter 

Selected on April 6 to co­ordinate the activities of CILA were Doug Allen, treasurer, Mary Beckman, Chairperson; Sue Caranci, and Walt Mills, co­directors of fund raising; 
Marianne  Cleary,  secretary;  
Charlie  Pittinger,  director  of  
education;  Larry  Schlereth,  

directoraf community service; and 
Mike Smith, project director. 
Last year, as traditionally, there were four CILA officers. However, through extensive reorganization, CILA has broadened its per­spectives and increased its ac-­tivities, thus necessitaing the new organizational model. CILA also sought to involve more members in its actual planning and decision­making. 
This year each officer, with the exception of the treasurer, will be working with a group of CILA members who have expressed interest in his or her area of specialization. These people will be in charge of the planning and decision-making for that area. 
"We are really looking for­ward to working together as of­ficers," said Beckman. "I find that each (officer) has something special to add, including much enthusiasm." 
She continued, "I hope that we can not only improve project preparation and follow-up, but also expand concepts of fund raising and further develop our volunteer projects in South Bend." In the past, funds were raised through Christmas card sales. Beckman hopes that other ways of earning money can now be implemented. 
Several projects are planned for this summer. In the United States, CILA will work in Appalachia, in New Orleans, and on an Indian Reservation in North Dakota. 
plnnnin~ a \W<klin~'? eaJI lli' 234-5822 \\t.>dding Photo~rapm­
234-5822 r.tCHAEL E 
~-=­
=­

aware of now they can help themselves in legal matters and discover what their rights are. 
A discussion  on  court  and  ap­ 
peals  procedures,  and  an  ex­ 
planation  of  the  basics  of  the  

judical process by second-year law student Ann Williams, opened the program, said Cekanski. 
Law in layman's terms 
A second seminar last Thursday given by Cekanski focused on "giving a general and basic un­derstanding of what the legal terms mean in layman's terms, giving the essential elements of a legal brief, and explaining to in­mates how they might begin their own legal research," she con­tinued. 
Other subjects to be covered at future meetings include techniques of research, issue analysis, and the formalities of filing "prose" motions, said Williams. 
Response of the inmates to the program has thus far been very favorable, stated Cekanski. "The inmates have been very receptive, and have had many questions," she added. 
Inmate attendance at the seminars has risen from 42 at the first talk, to over 50 at the second, she said. 
If successful, this pilot program will be expanded next year, she 
added. Plans for future programs 
have not yet been set, as the 
direction they take will be based on 
the inmates' needs discovered 
during these seminars. 
Questions asked by the inmates 
she said, concern each individual's 
case, or are divorce court, 
family Jaw, the rights of the in­
mates, or welfare for the families 
of inmates. 
Besides supporting this recent work in the Indiana State Penetentiary, the Post Conviction Remedies Division of the Notre Dame Legal Aid and Defenders Association has received requests for legal assistance from inmates at other institutions in the country. Some of these are answered via correspondence or are referred to agencies of law schools in the area of the institution. 
Provide basic skills 
The program is similar to a volunteer program conducted by ND education majors, which sends teams of students to the persons. 
The instruction they provide in the basic skills of reading and writing helps inmates obtain a high school diploma, or provides them with information needed to assume a new occupation on their release from prison. 
Cekanski hopes that this 
officers elected 
Other sites are located in Mexico, Panama, and St. Lucia, and island in the Caribbean. 
The ongoing work of CILA was stressed by Cleary. "I don't want students to think that CILA is a closed organization. CILA isn't just oriented for those going on summer projects but can be im­portant to anyone who is interested in being part of a community and in working with a group of people who share that interest," she said. 
During the academic year, CILA is involved with the of 
New CILA officers hope to expand fund-raisinll in South Bend. 
and volunteer work 
PUBLIC ACCESS TV 
Sing, dance, tell jokes or just gripe, but Do It on videotape 
MONDAY, APRIL 22 7 PM ROOM 340 MOREAU, SMC 
program as well as other depart­

said. If, for example, the law 
ments, and the new Jaw prison 

school volunteers were to explain 
program might work together. 

the legal terms for the inmates, but "If we can get more co-operatiOn they had difficulty with English, from other departments, our 
the program would Jose much of its 
program will be more successful 

effectiveness, she concluded.
and better all the way around," she 


Cekanski: Prisoners have responded favorably to legal education 
program. 
---------------------~~ 
m~r Qlnlnnial 

I Jancakr ~nust 
I 
"Enioy a snack or dinner"I :~:;:;:;~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:::::;:::;:;:;:;:::::;:;:;:&; 
;:;: 35 Varieties of Pancakes :::: :~:~Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches {:: J;~; Friday Nites: Perch Dinners :~:~: =~::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~: 
Your Host Bob Edwards, NO '50 


------·----­
4 

1he observer Friday, April 19, 1974 
' ' 
-~-~~-~-­

Nearby bars watch for underage drinkers 
by David Kaminski 

~ Starr Reporter 
The campus bar is a centralI feature in the social life of the 
I 
Notre' Dame student. With the li·diana drinking age set at 21, underage students often borrow or buy false I.D.s in order to join their 
fellows at the bars. False I.D.s are 
usually easy to get. 
However, few students perhaps know or care what can happen if tht-y're caught drinking underage, not only to themselves .but to the bar owner as well. An underage drinker might be fined $30. A bar owner caught with a single un­derage drinker in his bar might be fined forced to close for a few days, or he might lose his license and his business permanently. 
The underage drinker is only one of many problems that make running a student bar a difficult business. 
Three I.D.s 
In all but one situation, Indiana law holds the bar owner respon­sible for any person under 21 caught in his bar. 
According to Sergeant Maurice Fischer of the Indiana Excise State Police, if a minor can produce three matching false I.D.s, the Alcoholic Beverage Commission considers that the bar owner has removed any reasonable doubt about age. The commisssion then does not hold the bar owner responsible for the presence of the minor. 
However, people are not often asked to show three I.D.s, and so bar owners do get caught with minors in their bars. Some bars are luckier than others about getting caught. 
Joe Mel!, owner of Corby's Tavern, says that in the four years that he has owned the bar, he has been caught only once. That once was for a minor loitering in the bar, not for serving the minor. 
However, Rick Kanser, a 1973 graduate of Notre Dame and probably the youngest person to ever hold a bar license in Indiana, has not been so lucky. Already this school year his bar, the Library, is up before the ABC for a violation. 
On a night when the Excise Police say there were 150 people in the Library, one person was caught under age. Kanser estimates that it will cost him $1,000 in legal expenses to present his cast before the ABC in In­dianapolis. If he loses the case, Kanser suggests that the ABC should close his down for a week. 
"If you're not confident about the I.D.s you have," Kanser says, "try not to challenge us. I was a student a while ago and when I wasn't 21, I expected to get into bars too. But there are great ramifications forth~ bar owner." 
On a busy night when it looks like business is going great, Kanser worries that one underage drinker could cost him the loss of his business. 
Many bar owners feel that the Alcoholic Beverage Commission is . considerably tougher on the bars this year. Many also feel that the ABC puts more pressure on the student bars than on other establishments in South Bend. 
"The Commission makes it almost impossible to operate at times," says Joe Mell of Corby's "And there are no excuses as far as they're concerned. If something's wrong, you either correct it or you're penalized." 


Sergeant Fischer responds by saying: 
"Student bars are more crowded than the average bar. With a larger group there is a larger percentage of violations. We have to work the odds and check the busiest places," said Fischer. 
Fischer believes that usually the bar owners cooperate with the Excise Police and the ABC. 
"I don't believe that tavern owners are deliberate in violating the law. There are a limited number of beverage licenses and they are a prized possession," Fischer says. 
Michigan and Sunday 

Michigan's law permitting 18 year-olds ·to drink both relieves some underage drinking problems in Indiana and causes others. 
Corby's has managed to survive the last four years with only one violation of Indiana's alcohol laws. 
One bar owner feels that with Michigan only a short drive away, he has less pressure put on him by for the litter accumulating outside minors in South Bend. South Bend about their bars.
residents usually have access to Currently, the St. Joseph County cars and can drive to Michigan. 
Public Health .department is in­Fischer feels that it is un­vestingating several complaintsfortunate that the drinking ages of about the beer cup Jitter outsideMichigan and Indiana differ. 
the campus bars.
"It puts a bad light on things in One bar owner commented, "IIndiana," Fischer says. "Minors wish some night a cop would sitask, 'Why can't I drink here if I can outside my door and hand outdrink just up the road?' They've citations for anyone walking outgot a good point. But all we can do with a drink. After a few minutesis enforce the existing law." 
of ticketing, the problem would
"Personally, I don't think it's a fair shake," Fischer adds. 
(continued on page 12)Some bar owners also feel that the Sunday liquor law in Indiana is unfair to smaller establishments. According to the law, two con­

5:45 p.m. Sat. 9:30a.m. Sun. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. 
4:30 p.m. Sun. 

ditions have to be met in order for 
Student Union presents
an establishment to serve liquor on 
Sunday. 

The establishment must have over $50,000 in annual gross sales of food. Also, 50 percent of the annual gross sales of the establish­ment must be in food. This law obviously allows the restaurant with a cocktail lounge to open on Sunday, but prohibits the small bar from opening. 
Hick Kanser is talking about hiring an attorney and getting together with other bar owners to challenge the existing Indiana law, claiming that it's discriminatory to 


SUNDAY MASSES 
MAIN CHURCH 
Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. Fr. James Schilts, C.S.C. Fr. Michael Sequeina Fr. William Toohey 
Evensong-Lady Chapel 

the small bar owner. Kanser predicts that he can bring a strong 
LEO.N RUSSELL at the ACC
case to court. 
Cups 


Thursday, May 2 at 8:00
One of the biggest problems currently facing the campus bar owners is not taking place inside 
Tickets are $6.00 and $4.00 NOW ON SALE at the ACC Box Office and 
the bar, but outside on the curb 
Student Union Ticket Office
and in the streets. 

Walking toward campus from the Corby's -Nickie's -Library area, one sees a constant trail of beer cups, disposable beer bottles 
s and other bar trash in the gutters and on the lawns of homes. 
Bar patrons leaving with their drinks are causing the litter. The law prohibits patrons form leaving a bar with a drink in their hands. The bar owners feel that it is often impossible for them to prevent customers form carrying their drinks out with them. But the owners are being held responsible 
r 


SMC COFFEEHOUSE
r 
f 
HELP 
FRIVOLOUS
t 
r 

CELEBRATE FRIDAY!! 
r 
. ' 

mus1c n fun n' freaks munchies 
beneath caf.
9:00-1 :00 

Friday, April 19, 1974 , , ,
_:....__....:.._:__ __:_____ the observer:· 
On education 
Jung conference starts today 
"Jung and Education: Myth and Ritual," is the theme of the second conference on psychologist Carl Jung, which begins today in the Center for Continuing Education and is free. 
A film of Shakespeare's "A Midsummer Night's Dream" at 
1:30 this afternoon in the CCE auditorium will open the con­ference. Commentaries on "The Meaning of Shakespeare's Dream Images and Symbols," and "Psycholology and Shakespeare: Dreams and a Midsummer Night's Dream," by Assistant Professor of English Paul Rathburn and Associate Professor of Education John Meany, respectively, will follow. 
Northwestern's popular syn­thesizer of Jung, Professor Leland Roloff will then lecture on "Literature as Symbolic 

Who Started An Tostal? 
David Ryan, presently a student at Boston College Law School 
came up with the idea six years ago. He and Jim E. Brogan did ali 
the work to make it a success and set the trend for future An 
Tostals. 
When do juniors have to turn in their proofs for yearbook pictures? 
Your proofs are due today, April19. You can turn them in from 
10:()()-1 :OOp.m. and 2:00-5:00p.m. in room 2C of La Fortune. 
When are the Knights of Columbus elections? 
They are Monday, April22, from 12:00 noon to 5:00p.m. 
When is the women's crew team going to have a home meet? 
Their first home meet is this Saturday from 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. 
at the St. Joseph river. They will be rowing against Nebraska. 
I am living off campus next year and would like to know what 
authority Notre Dame has over me? 
Whether on or off campus, Notre Dame students are expected to live within the "spirit of the laws" set down by the Notre Dame Dean of Students. However, becasue some of the laws are virtually unenforceable, off-campus students are not subject to all the rules and regulations that campus residents are. Parietals and parties ar~ two such rules. However, any action by an off-campus student which reflects poorly upon the Notre Dame community is subject to reprimand by the University. 
When is the Blue-Gold Game? 
The Blue-Gold Game is Saturday. May 4, at 1:30 p.m. The cost is $2.00 for adults and students and 50 cents for children. It will be played at the Notre Dame Stadium. 
Obliqueness: Modes and Psychic Wholeness." 
A filmed BBC interview with 
Jung, entitled "Face to Face," and 
another called "The Story of C.G. 
Jung," will follow dinner. 
Friday night features John 
Dunne discussing, "What Kind of 
Story Are We In?" 
The second symposium begin­
ning Saturday at 9:00 a.m. is 
devoted to mythology and 
visionary experiences. 
Convention attended by NDstudents 
~~~-.Jane ('anrum Stal't' Ht•tJm·tt·r 
Hick l'yfcr and Tom 
Schnellenbcrgl'l', ll\l'mhers of the 
Notn• Danw Circle K Club. at­
tended the 13th Annual Indiana 
District CirciP K Convention 
earlier this month. .South Bmd 
Kiwanians Hob Bassmusser and 
<:reg (;iczi also attended the 
11\eeting at \lw Warsaw. Indiana, 
lloliday Inn. 
Attendance al the convPnlion ineludPd o\'er tOO members from len dubs in the Indiana district. (;uests included Circle K gover­nm·s from Ohio, Nl'W J<'rsey. Eastern Canada. and the In­t('rnational Vice-President from Flordia. as wt'll as numprous Kiwanians. 
The major function of the con­n·ntion \ras the ell•ction of new district offiCl'rs. The meeting also gave the members an opportunity to exchange thoughts and ideas on both a formal and informal level. 
Workshops were h<'ld in the five major concern areas enviornment eomnnmity. h<'alth. student and prison rt>form. Workshops were also ~lwld for individual club of­fic(•rs. 
Notable projects receiving n•eognition included the eour1­selling of individuals on parole by lhe Indiana-Purdue-Fort Wayne Extmsion Club. and the clearing of a logjam by the Manchester Club. Walkathons by the Indiaan­Purdue-Fort Wayne Extension Club and by the Indiana Club, which IWtled $2400 and $3000, rPspectivcly, and the helalh concl'rn projects of the Tri-State College Club also received r<'eognition. 
District awards were presented and the new district officers were installed at llll' Farewell Banquet. 




SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION 

SundayI ApriI 21stI Little Theatre 
Admission 25f 

A lecture entitled "Images, the Visionary Mind; and Mythology Psychosis and the Visionary Mind," by Dr. John Perry of San Francisco, and another on "Psychomythology," discussed by Dr. Marvin Speigelman will highlight the morning's activities. 
A third Symposium is scheduled for the afternoon on "The American Indian: Ritual Modes of Education." 
Louise Mahdi of Zurich, Swit­zerland will treat the American Indian vision quest, as seen for example in the film "Billy Jack," while John Manchester of Taos, New Mexico, will talk about psychological aspects of Taos Indian initiations. 
Saturday evening features a unique demonstration-lecture of the the Indian Native American Church with its Peyote ritual by Dr.'s Jack Laney and Bruce Jewell and their wives. 

A fourth symposium on "Jungian Psychology and Education" gets underway on Sunday morning at 9:00 in the CCE Auditorium. 
"Toward a Jungian Sociology," by Charles Hubbell of Cal State at Northridge and "The Image of God, in Jung's thought by Dr. James Heisig, comprise the morning's events. 
Sunday afternoon includes talks by Professors Morton Kelsey and Thomas Kapacinskis and Dean Frederick Crosson, and a Round Table discussion with all con­ference participants. 
Sale 
Aluminum Canoes by 

Smokercraft 
$179.00 
• 


LL......-------:-: Ind.
,._ Ram 
9-5 Mon-Fri 2311 S. Nappane 9-1 Sat Elkhart--293-6587 
So you want to be a star 

HERE'S YOUR CHANCE!!! 


Ombudsman Enterprises is producing a musical comedy about Notre Dame We need people who think they can 
ACT SING DANCE 
or Play a Musical Instrument 
Stop by Student Government Office this Sunday 
between 12 and 4 p.m. 

No Lon -Term Commitment! 



Bill Pumphrey Terry Billger 
'learafter Year. ~eme~ter I after semester. the ( 'ollcgcMastf.'r ·from 
Fidelit\' Cnion I .ilc ha~ been the most accepted, most popular plan on campuses all overAmerica. 
Find out wtn. 

Call the Fidclitr L'nion 
CollegeMa~1cr· 

Field Associate m \our area: 
1005 E. LaSalle South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 
·~·~ 
j.-· 

·~ .y,.; 
'• 
-'·' 
'
•






COllegeMaster· 
T.,m McMahon General Agent 
~:t: 
, .ii i.t 


I,;;\ I 

Norm Wallace 


....----------------------------~-~----~-~-------~--~ 


love thy 
neighbor 
Dear Editor: In response to Bernard Norling's letter in the April 5 Observer: 
The duty of the Christian clergy is not to tell us how to souls. It is to awaken us reality that we are saved. Salvation isn't a hit or miss deal. We are saved. 
Sometimes I think this legalism about salvation is only to avoid the pain of really seeing what Christ was doing. He was showing us that God loves us. That this love is 
immutable, everlasting ... always there. 
This is hard to take, this responsibility of being loved. It's easier to cop-out and avoid this responsibility with worrying about being saved. We are saved. And we are faced with a love that implies a response. This is where the clergy comes in. 
It is the job of the clergy to suggest how, by word and deed, to respond to this love. This is, I think, what Fr. Toohey was trying to do. He was saying to respond to this love with love. Not by hugging a crucifix or cataloging nine first Fridays, but by loving your neigh­bor and being concerned for their welfare. Unavoidably, this in­cludes draft resistors, Mr. Norling. 
This can be our most powerful response to the love of God. 
My neighbor is not my country, nor the mass of people in it. It is the individuals of this mass. Priorities are set Jesus-style: to the ones most needful of our concern, like the prisoners, the exiled, and the lonely. 
This is the sort of thing expected of a clergy that tries to point out a cop-out like "concern for our souls'' and helps all people aproach the reality of, and respnn~ibility to, an immutable love. 
Don't avoid it...respond!! , 
Ed Snyder 

Is your car 

safe tonight? 
Editor, 
My time fianlly came. Yes, I was 'affected' ( to quote Bill Oberhardt's letter) by our dear friends in the Administration and I would like to share my story so that other students may partake in the experience and be enriched as I so fortunately was. 
It so happened on Friday, March 
22, that my parents flew out of the 
South Bend airport and asked if I 
would like to keep the car till they 
got back ten days later. I left it in 
--D liphant--------------.,. 

Stepan Center lot over the weekend and went to see Mr. Art Pears <Director of Security) on Monday to inquire about temporary permit. He was not in at the time so I called between classes later that day to say I might not be able to make it until Tuesday, although I would certainly try. Unfortunately a special meeting for my German classwent on until 5:30, and alas Mr. Pears had gone home for the day. Thus on Tuesday morning I discovered two tickets on my ear-­one for not having a decal and one for parking in Stepan Center lot. I proceeded to Mr. Pears' office to again see about a permit (these important matters must, of course, be dealt with by the Director of Security in person). He then in­formed me that that was not the correct place to park the car, rather D-1 was because I was a student. I asked how they knew the car belonged to a student and he explained to me the procedure. That is, they checked my license plates with the Michigan License Bureau and then checked the enrollment list to see if that person was a student. How efficient can one be! That leaves te question of D-1. Somehow I fail to see what difference that would have made, as I would have gotten a ticket for no decal and one for parking in D-1. But Mr. Pears was very obliging and did issue me a temporary permit for D-1 and demanded my car keys. That's right. I can't drive my car, because freshmen aren't allowed to have cars on a permanent basis. Well that's fine, but I know for a fact that it is done 
on a temporary basis such as this. I decided to let Mr. Pears play his game for the time being, but said I might be back before 
Monday to get the car because I 
·had a place offcampus to keep it. His reply, "No you won't." Thinking that he misunderstood me, I repeated it in more detail this time, explaining that I was taking it off-ofthe-campus, i.e. out of his juriscidiction. Apparently he didn't agree with my reasoning because he again said, "No you won't. Freshmen can't drive cars". 
I'm not quite sure how to get it through to him that I got the car because of my two sisters that came to visit me this last weekend and I needed it to pick them up, etc. Not that it should make any difference. I think I'm technically supposed to get permission from the Dean of Students. It's obvious why he needs another Assistant Dean when all his time is taken up giving permission for students to tie their shoelaces. And it's really pathetic when you realize that Security goes through every lot every day <more or less) checking for decals and tracing license plates while some guy's stereo is getting ripped off or some girl is getting raped on her way to St. Mary's. But after all, we all must have our priorities. 
Remember, fellow students, that Security is there to protect you. After all, they have to have something to keep them busy. 
Laurie Kinney 


Maid wanted 
Dear Editor, 
I have not been too concerned with Father Burtchaell and Dean Macheca 's reign of tyranny, until now <Mainly because I live off­campus, and could care less what parietals are established and what parties are sanctioned>. All that has changed now; for I also have been affected by his terror struck in the hearts of the students. 
I recently put an ad in the Ob­server <$2.15 worth) for housemates next fall, and wanted to welcome any daring or willing female Notre Darners to apply also. I was told by the ad manager that this was not possible, as it might upset Father Burtchaell and Dean Macheca. It was further explained that Father Burtchaell and Dean Macheca had influence on the school paper by the fact that the office "resides" in a university building. <Apparently, they could be out on their rears with no place to go if my ad appeared as I wanted.) 
Being a "country boy", I did not fully comprehend that this ad <as it was intended to appear) had dubious sexual implications-hell, I wanted them <females) for their domestic abilities and feminine tastes in decor! 
If nothing else happens from this letter, I will have at least gotten the point across that females or males interested in such an "arrangement" can apply. (Anyhow, my name is on every list that the Dean of Students can think ofl. 
Steven II. Reif£ 
O.C. and damn glad 

They call 

me.. • 
Dear Editor: 

I would like to make some ob­
servations concerning Jack 
Joseph's alleged reply to Dr. J. 
Michael Quill's letter on the UCLA 
basketball team and Coach John 
Wooden. The most striking thing 
about Mr. Joseph,s response is 
that, instead of discussing the 
issues raised by Dr. Quill, he 
erects a series of strawmen and 
then attacks them. 
First, no criticism or derogatory comments were directed at the crowds at Pauley Pavilion. lam uncertain why he feels compelled to defend them. Second, the reference to Bill Walton's arrogance and immaturity had nothing to do with Coach Wooden's policy of protecting his players from the press. Rather, it referred to Walton's boorish behavior during the game, when he cries to the officials and shakes his head in stunned incredulity that they would have the audacity to call a foul on a player of his stature. And finally, Dr. Quill never demeaned Coach Wooden's record. He merely pointed out that Wooden's sideline activity is in sharp con­trast to his self-righteous posture. While Mr. Joseph may be correct in saying that Wooden is not unique with respect to these and prestactics, he ignores the fact that no other coach cultivates and presents an image of strict moral rectitude. Dick Harter, the Oregon coach, after hearing that Wooden was authographing books before the UCLA-oregon game, wondered if they were They Call Me Coach, the Officials Guide, or the Bible. I cannot imagine anyone asking a similar question about AI McGuire. 
If Mr. Joseph intended to answer Dr. Quill, he should have dealt with the original points and not indulged figments of his imagination. 
Sincerely, 
Michael P. Poder 
• • a • ,·· • .•',;' .:',. • • ·.., . ., ., .. 
' 
The food 




service? 
Editor: 

I would like to take a minute to inform all returning students of the so-called "vacation" that we, who remained at school over the Easter break, experienced at the "New" South Dining Hall. Apparently the personnel and management of the Notre Dame Food Service have forgotten what they are supposed to represent-a service <indeed, a service paid for by ever increasing room and board fees). The number of students who chose to remain at N.D. for the holidays was inordinately high. Why then was but one wing of the only one dining hall opened to serve the students? Why then were serving hours diminished? Perhaps even more incomprehensible and inexcusable were certain actions of food personnel to which I was a witness. On Holy Thursday a conveyor belt supervisor was heard cursing a student for im­properly bussing his tray, and on Easter Sunday an overly zealous (dedication?) female employee closed the doors to breakfast on my two roommates even though they were at the checkers' stand on time. 
Such incidents of 

mismanagement, lack of courtesy, 
and general incompetence do 
serve a purpose, however. It is 
obvious that such behavior is but 
the causal element in a cause and 
effect relationship that determines 
the dining habits of the typical 
student <a clientele which would be 
most unwelcome in my home'. 
Perhaps if food service were 
improved, the discourteous 
pushing and shoving, the wasteful 
use of food, the wanton destruction 
of utensils and glasses, and even 
the deafening roar in the 
menagerie-oops! -dining hall 
itself could be eliminated. 

Respectfully, the STOOS 
Address all letters to: The Editor The Obse•·ver 

P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, Indiana -16556 
---4 the observer-­
Night Editor: Bill Brink 

Assistant Night Editor: Andy 
Praschak 

Layout: Maria Gallagher, AI 
Rutherford, Terry Keeney, Ken 
Girouard, Ann McCarry 
Copy Reader: Greg Rowinski 
Features: J.R. Baker 

Sports: Greg Corgan . Day Editors: Val Zurblis, George 
of the J 
Pictures: Albert D'Antonio 

Typists: Claire Kelly, Barb Hinks, 
Mike Seidel, Bill Menk,. Joe 
Abell 
Compugraphic: Joe Abell 

Controller of the Night: Joe Abell 
r 
• 






THE OBSERVER 
Al\l INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 NEWS: 283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471 
AnnMcCarry Editorial Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 
Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief 
Terry Keeney News Editor 
April 19, 1974 

Ride A Bike 
Sunday will probably be a nice sunny day, the kind that can even make men­tally retarded children glad they are alive. You can help them enjoy it even more by Riding a Bike for the Retarded in the bicycle marathon sponsored by the Indiana State Teachers' Association on April 28. Patterned after hunger hikes, riders will earn the pledges of donators for each mile they ride. All proceeds will go to Logan Center and the St. Joseph County Committee on the Retarded to finance plans to bring the retarded out of homes and institutions and establish them in group living situations. 
Our society is now gradually becoming aware that mental health is an area of medicine that is sadly neglected. Students at Notre Dame have responded greatly, understanding the problem and 
Marlene Zloza Managing Editor 
John Kloos Advertising Manager 
volunteerir 6 time and energy through clinics suc11 as Logan Center. It is time to reinforce this contribution. The need for understanding, education and concern is not easily simplified. Money and willing hands are needed to unlock the doors of misunderstanding that have long inhibited proper consideration of mental health. 
There is something that can be done to speed aid to the support of this cause, and it's as easy as riding a bike. You can do it this weekend by contacting Jay Niederman today. 
Ride a Bike for the Retarded. If you can't, please pledge support for someone who can. 
-Ann McCarry 


A Slip of the Tongue 
One begins to wonder when those who are expected to have a superior knowledge of the legal and judicial processes of this country seem to ignore that knowledge. William Saxbe caused that kind of open wonder with a statement he made at a press conference on Wednesday. At that time he referred to Patricia Hearst as a "common criminal.'' 
He pronounced the sentence on Miss Hearst after examining the evidence from a San Francisco bank robbery in which she allegedly took part. The evidence consisted mostly of a videotape made from concealed bank cameras and eyewitness accounts. 
One wonders at Mr. Saxbe's refusal to recognize the right to be considered in­nocent until proven guilty. His statement echoes a similar one made several years ago, at the time of the trial of Charles Manson, when President Nixon told a press conference that Charles Manson was "guilty without a doubt." 
Both statements are irresponsible and somewhat unforgiveable. Especially in the case of Saxbe, who is not only af­fecting the reputation of Patricia Hearst, but could be endangering her life as well, since it is possible that she is still being held by the SLA. 
No matter how the statements are qualified, or what disclaimers are at­tatched to them in a flurry of af­terthoughts, the damage is already done. Men who reach positions of power and 
-influence are expected to demonstrate control enough to successfully operate without misusing their powers. Mr. Sax be cannot be punished or prosecuted for what he has said, but he can be publicly censored by those whose influence exceeds his. That is what should be done, and soon enough to ef­fectively counteract the tendency ex­pressed in Wednesday's actions. 
-Fred Graver 
~ 


~RIIif:lal.ar Riley 
~ Untitled due to 
lack of interest 
ken tairauard 

The alarm clock rings. As he rolls over, his arm automatically swings out and silences the bothersome bell. Staring at the ceiling now, he tries to piece together his consciousness in order to make the effort to get out of bed. Finally mustering enough energy, he rolls out of bed and, making a half-assed effort not to wake his roommate, he searches for his clothes. "Damn," He says to himself, "I wish this was Saturday morning." 
Finally dressed, he stumbles out of the room and trudges across the 
quad to the dining hall, all the while cursing the South Bend weather 
and wishing that the campus was in Miami. After showing his I.D. to 
the sleepy attendant, he proceeds to the food line and surveys the 
morning's culinary offerings. Rubbery eggs and cold bacon. "Again?" 
he cries, "You ought to hire Betty Crocker as your dietician." 
Nevertheless, he takes, he takes the bacon and eggs, grabs a cup of 
coffee, and moves into the dining room. He looks around the room at 
all the zombies who are doing last minute cramming before the test. 
Satisfied that there is no one that he knows, he spies an empty table 
and crawls over to it. 
Four cups of coffee later, he now feels awake enough to start his day. 
"Boy, I can't wait until the mail gets here. Maybe I'll get something 
today." Ruching back to the dorm, he makes a bee-line for the 
mailbox. Inserting the key, he opens the door and stares at the black, 
cave-like interior of the mailbox. 
"Well, maybe this afternoon," he says optimistically. 
He now gathers his books and makes off for the day's first class. As the morning progresses and he sits in class after class, the same thought runs through his head. "Jesus, I wish this class would end. This guy can talk for hours. When is it going to be lunchtime?" 
Morning finally over, its now time for lunch. He races over to the dining hall in an effort to beat the 12:10 rush. Arriving just a hair too late, he grabs an Observer and immediately turns to the sports page. He wades through the lunch line, all the while keeping his eyes riveted to this week's football poll. He gets through the line and goes into the dining room. Spotting a group of friends, he walks over to the table and sits down. "How's it going?" a comrade asks. "This place bites, I can't wait till break," he answers. 
Lunch over and Doonesbury read, its now time to hit the 1:15 class, the last of the day. He struggles through the professor's lecture and, class finally over, he returns to the dorm. He decides to spend the rest of the afternoon taking a nap. It's the best way to pass the time before supper. 
It's five o'clock now and time for the evening meal. Before going over to eat, he treks over to the mailbox and again is confronted with an empty cave. Sadly, he makes his way to the dining hall and joins his friends for supper. It's a relaxing time, a time filled with con­versation. He sits and chats, all the tiem waiting for the moment to begin studying. When the time arrives, he sighs, stands up, and says, "Well, its about that time. I wish I could just bag these damn books." 
The next four hours are spent studying, but even then he keeps counting the minutes until he can get back to the dorm. When he finally returns, he looks at the clock and says, "Only a half hour till food sales opens." 
After eating his pepperoni piz:.a, he finally decides to go to bed. He undresses, hops into bed and, just before turning out the lights he says to his roommate, "What a lousy day. I sure wish this was Friday night. I can't wait 'til the weekend." 
And he wishes and he waits. 
He's wishing and waiting his life away. 

It was on Saturday evening in Boston that we heard the news: Jesus Christ is risen from the dead, and Christians everywhere were celebr&ting. Friends we met were just coming out of church. They had heard the news also, and they had just lighted the Easter fire. 
"The Lord is risen." they said. "Jesus Christ is alive and well." They had not seen Him. but little groups of His friends had kept bumping into Him all over the cemetry. 
~-~--------~­
Boston was celebrating the resurrection· because Boston knew those friends of Jesus wouldn't lie. So Bo. my travelling com­panion, and I nibbled at a chocolate bunny. We felt it was the least we could do to celebrate, if Jesus Christ had really triumphed over the grave. 
On Sunday, as we drove through New England, we again heard the news on the car radio: pilgrims in Jerusalem were celebrating the resurrection. The Pope had given an Easter message to the world. Dr. Billy Graham himself came on the wire to tell us of his faith that Christ is immortal in glory after having died to save Billy Graham from his sins. Bo and I both ate a paschal jelly bean. "One might not believe the Pope," we said to ourselves, "but it would be churlish to doubt Billy Graham." 
At midnight on Easter Sunday, we stopped at a novitiate for seminarians in Hochester, New York. Most of the novices were in bed; worn out, we were told, by their feasting. The resurrection news had reached the novitiate, but we had missed the party. Bo and I nibbled at some left-{)ver potato chips, and felt sad. Easter had passed us by, and we had not gotten to celebrate with anybody, not even to say 
the observer 

Letters Ta A Lanely Ciad the eucharist at bo's house 
reverend rabert ~:~riffin 

assert eternal Providence, and justify God's . friends we had greeted along the way. ways to man. But Malt, says Housman, noting that those whom we love, grow old justifies things better than Milton; to which ·and suffer and die; yet in April, the I add. Manhattans do a better job than 111agnolias bloom again on Commonwealth either Malt or Milton. If our sacraments in · Avenue. and the sea singing on the Maine Mass, and now it was too late. We felt like very shabby Christians. As shabby Christians do, we sang a chorus of "Easter Parade," mxing up the words a little, and then , ..ent to bed. Shabby Christians have to do a lot of sleeping, just to forget what they haven't celebrated. 
On Monday, nobody was mentioning the resurrection anymore. Except for a picture of the Easter bunny, the morning newspaper never said a word involving 
Jesus; the news on the car radio was only about Kissinger and Watergate and Patricia Hearst. Since we were returning to South Bend by way of Canada, driving on the Queen's Highway from Niagara Falls to Detroit, I thought maybe the resurrection was an American event, and those Canadians hadn't heard the news about Jesus and the empty tomb. Niagara Falls looked very cold and gray and unfriendly that day, and the air was freezing. It was just the kind of day when you need for God to give some sigh that He gives a damn, through resurrections or other kinds of caring, and the weather was not like April at all. I thought of slipping up to a sight-seer, and saying: "Jesus Christ is alive and well.'' But if he had asked me how I knew, I couldn't tell him it was just a rumor spread by some Jewish ladies. What if that sight­seer turned out to be from Egypt? A credible resurrection must be based on something more solid than rumors. My own ('Xperience under that cold, gray sky with its sharp wind that was killing the crocuses, was not faith-filled enough to deal with agnostics. So, I just took another candy from our paper sack of paschal goodies. 
"Bo," I said despondently, "these jelly beans are getting stale." 

On Monday afternoon, at six o'clock, we drove up to a lovely house in the suburbs of Detroit, where Bo's family was waiting for us to join them at dinner. Within minutes, a chilled Manhattan had been slipped into my hand. and a hot hors d'oeuvre was flaking apart in my nouth. "Malt does more than l\1ilton can," the poet tells us, "To justify (;od's ways to man." The Miltonic allusion. of course, is w Paradis(• Lost, written to 
the love of a fater and mother with their children. and the love of a little girl for her brothers. and the love of those brother for one another. I noticed that after a day of showt-res. the sky was hosting a sunset over the lake. and that the world was truly April. In five days, Bo and I had travelled nearly three thousand miles to 1\laine, where I had Pnjoyed 111y (•Wn experience of family. At that l\lass. thr whole journey became un­derstandable tP me, as I remembered all the 
If our sacraments were as reassuring as Manhattans... then the Pope would be more popular than Johnny Walker. 
religion were as reassuring as Manhattans ­-calming fears, easing tensions, loosening the tight hand grip of anxiety that gives stomach cramps to our souls, infusing peace--then the Pope would be more popular than Johnny Walker. and liturgies would have to be regulated by laws, as state liquors stores are. With the first sip of that l\1ahhattan, I knew there was more to Easter than the rumors of an empty grave. 
It was not in drinks mixed from bourbon that I e'xperienced the truth of resurrection coast. for all its great age, is in infancy compared to the lifetime of God. Easter, as it was celebrated by eggs and candy, bon­nets and the emotional endorsements of car radio Pvangelists; and commemorated by the party debris of friends on frolic, was as stupid to nw as the gossip of women I have never nwt. But in the love of this family, God said: "I am alive and beautiful as I share this meal of hread and wine with you. I smile at you fron• the corner of the table. I touch you in the handclasps of the Sign of 
news that had dogged our footsteps for two . Peace. 1am most alive in the care you have 

I couldn't tell him it was ;ust a rumor spread by some Jewish ladies. 
days, from Boston to Detroit, like the rumors of an old lover's ghost lately seen. It was the supper wine and the bread of the evening meal, served as Eucharist, sym­bolizing an ancient violence, that reminded me of the mystery of death and life that has touched my hopes with immortal longings. At a Mass said among that little family of Christians, around their own dining room 
table, the Gospel of Easter was read and the alleluias were said. Sharing as a guest in for one another. and you are Easter." 
There are more profound theologies of the Easter mystery than the words I have written here but the Eucharist at Bo's house was all the Easter truth I needed. Some years, it is very important to have all the Easter truth yuu need. In April in some years, even after celebrating Easter, you discover that Holy week is still a series of t•vents you have to survive. 
Ben Hecht, famed Chicagoan newsman, screenwriter, playwright, and novelist has been resurrected and is being brought to audiences in Jim Sullivan's performance of "An Evening With Ben Hecht -a Child of the Century. ' This one man show comes to the Notre Dame -St. Mary's campus this Sunday, April 20, at 8:00 p.m. in Washington Hall, sponsored by the Cultural Arts Commission in conjuction with the Department of American Studies' American Character Series. 
Hecht, born in 1894, got his start as a journalist in post-World War I Germany. He then proceeded to make a name for himself as a columnist for the Chicago Journal and Chicago Daily News. An example of his unconventional style is displayed in a commentary by Henry Justin Smith of the Chicago Daily News. Smith relates how Hecht came into the editorial coop of the Daily News building one afternoon com­plaining about the problems his successful newswriting had brought him. The pay was good but, 
"He just unaccountably, illogically 

and damnably couldn't stand it. If he 
had to attend another luncheon and eat 
sweet breads and peach melbe and 
listen to some orator pronounce speech, 
he, Hecht had written, and hear some 
Magnet outline a campaign which he 
Hecht had invented ... " 
So he decided to come back to the old staff­
but not to the old job. Instead he had an idea 
for sketches entitled 'One Thousand and One 
Afternoons in Chicago.' Thus in the next few 
years, along with his plays and novels he 
managed to turn out a sketch for the paper, 



a child of the century 
by mary ellen mcandrews 
daily. 
After Chicago, Hecht went to New York where he became interested in the theater. His best known work is probably "The Front Page,", 

Jim Sullivan who plays Hecht, began his 

acting career in 1958 at age six when he 
starred in a Jean Kerr comedy at the South 
Bend Civic Theatre. He continued to per­
form through his high school years and at 
Beloit College where he double majored in 
Theatre Arts and English Compostiion. 
Since graduating in 1972, he has conceived 
and designed Rockford Illinois' only 
professional repertory theater, the New 
American Theater. He produced plays by 
Tennessee Williams, Edward Albee, 
Arthur Miller and Thornton Wilder. 
In his perfomance as Hecht, which he has 

brought tomanycollege campuses, Sullivan protrays him as the storyteller for that is how the man thought of himself. Each time the performance is a little different as Sullivan 
improvises his monologue from Hecht's collection of stories. The show is presented in three acts -1923, 1944 and 1953. It is interrupted by intermissions "when most needed." 
The promoters state on the playbill that they had been unable to pin Mr. Hecht down to a specific program for the evening. However based on his "previous con­frontations" they suggest that the possibilities might include: "Demons Ben Ziner and T. Aloysms," "My Troubles as an Actor", "What was Art?" and different attacks on everything. All in all it seems like an interesting opportunity to get acquainted with the notorious Mr. Hecht, an American child of the century. 

luther allison a musical bridge 
Luther Allison appears Friday night in Stepan Center in what promises to be a rare treat. The blues are not often available to Notre Dame, and a talent of Allision's calibre in a free concert is something that shouldn't be passed up. Seniors should remember the electrifying performance he gave at the Blues Festival here three years ago. 
Luther has received unanimous acclaim as he leaves audiences amazed wherever he plays. His performance at the Ann Arbor Blues and Jazz Festival prompted the Dell oit Free Press to call him "more than a blues artist. He's a musical bridge ..." He plays with a style reminiscent of B.B. King, and Jimi Hendrix, according to Crawdadd_y, "merging blues and hard rock. It's a pure pleasure." But don't just read about him, come to Stepan Center Friday night at 8 and find out why Crawdaddy calls him "a totally contemporary bluesman ... the new guiding light in the genre." It will be an evening well spent. 
10 the.obse_rver ,..friday, April19, 1974 
I •.: v • '· •• , --'---_:~~~..:...,.::..,::.~-..:.....-­
colonel Arnold ·aa briel selected 
St. Cecilia Award winner announced 
served as combat machine gunner The University of Notre Dame with the famed 29th Infantry
Band has selected Colonel Arnald Gabriel, Director of the United Division in the European theater of 
operations during World War II.
States Air Force Band, as the 1974 Discharged in 1946, he enteredrecipient of its annual St. Cecilia Ithaca College, New York, as a

Award. Initiated in 1962 this award is the highest recognition that the music major. Graduating cum Notre Dame , \Band can give. It is laude in 1950, his biography ap­
presented each year to the out­peared in "Who's Who in American standing contributor to the Colleges and Universities" that Catholic Band movement. 
year. 
Re-entering the service in 1951, 

Col. Gabriel first entered the he was first assigned to Sampson armed forces from his hometown, AFB, Geneva, New York as a Cortland, New York, in 1943. He Warrant Officer Bandleader. In 
Decline in religious 

Vatican II blained 
by Patrick Hanum Staff Reporter 
The decisions of Vatican II are at least partly responsible for the recent decline in vocations to the priesthood and religious life, ac­cording to a Notre Dame study of vocations. 
The study, directed by Dr. Carroll W. Tageson, associate professor of graduate studies in education, reached this conclusion after reviewing current research on vocations. 
Prior to Vatican II the 'Church 
maintained itself as an isolated sub-culture within the main culture, in effect a ghetto, the report said. This "ghetto men­tality" resulted in the development of a wide range of social im­stitutions parallel to that of the main society's. This reinforced traditional Catholic values such as the prestige of vocations. 
"The 'opening of the windows to let in the fresh air' approach of John XXIII called for the in­tegration of the Catholic sub­culture in this country into the main culture," according to the report. 

i 
Tegeson notes that "this resulted in a weakening of religious influence. Middle-and upper-class Catholics are less into this special culture although some lower-class Catholics still cling to it."' He predicted that the Church would 
! 
become increasingly integrated into society like the Protestant churches. "This will produce more independence and variety in ways of worship and a loosening of structures." 
According to the report's cultural lag thesis, when the Church was a "ghetto" its members were over-comforming to values about vocations. As the, Church became more integrated1 into the larger society, vocations~ leveled off to that of other religious groups in the country. 
Another factor noted by Tageson was the strain of controversy about how fast change should occur. "I doubt that there would be any shortage at all if the traditional structures could accomodate the new forces. The problem is that everybody wants things to move at a different speed. We need authority structures that allow greater variety." 
According to Fr. Edward Baldwin, executive director of the National Center for Church vocations <NCCV), "the study confirms and documents many of the things vocation directors have suspected, and highlights the need for an on-going research in this area." The project was partly sponsored by the NCCV. 
In the project's second phase researchers hope to establish an Institute for the Study of Religious Careers under the auspices of the Center for the Study of Man. "We are still trying to get funding for future programs," Tegeson said. We are in the talking stages and have a fair chance of success. A great deal of the money will have to come from the Church as the primary interest group, but we are also talking to some foundations." 
No more refund 
for Irish Wake 
Tickets for Saturday night's Irish Wake will go on sale today in the Fiesta Lounge in LaFortune Student Center, from 2:30 to 4:00 p.m., at $4 per ticket. There will be no more refunds. 
Any tickets left over from the 140 available will go on sale at the door . 

. . . ~=·.:.r,·=~'"·~~.. A . I 
..·:-..~·;;:.::.:..;~:... ~.. ,. n1ce p ace
. . . .... , ... 'J... .• ., . ' 

to be.gin your weekend Mass &Dinner 5pm Every Friday 
1953 he commuted to Ithaca College and earned his Masters Degree in Music Education. From 1955 through 1958 CoL Gabriel served as Rand Director of the Tactical Air Command and Con­ductor of the TAC Band located at Langley AFB, Virginia. 
CoL Gabriel was appointed Command Band Director, United States Air Forces in Europe, and Commander and Conductor of the USAF Europe Band, Wiesbaden, Germany in 1958. It was during this five year tour of duty that he was awarded the Legion of Merit for his outstanding service to the United States through music. 
While stationed in Europe, Colonel Gabriel's fame as a con­ductor became widespread throughout the music world. In 1959-60 he assisted in the formation and training of the Danish Home Guard Band of Copenhagen, for which the government of Denmark awarded him one of its highest awards, the Cross of St. George. In 1959, he conceived and formed a NATO Band, which was composed of military musicians representing the fifteen NATO nations. 
After spending a year as Com­
mander and Conductor of the 
United States Air Force Academy 
Band in Colorado, Col. Gabriel 
assumed his present assignment 
as Commander and Conductor of 
the United States Air Force Band 
in Washington, D.C. in June 1964. 
With his promotion to the rank of 
Colonel on October 1, 1970, he 
became the youngest musician in 
the military service to attain that 
grade. 

The dedication for the St. Cecilia 
Award seems most appropriate to 
CoL Gabriel and is as follows: 
"St. Cecilia, our patroness of 
music, pray for us for the grace Gabriel." and insight to improve, refine, and Past winners of this award are project our musical talents in Forrest L. McAIIlister, Bro. order that we might better serve Leonard Leary CSC, Rev. In­for the greater glory of our nocente Clementi, SOP, Dr. James Almighty Lord." Nielsen, Prof. Adam Lesinsky, Dr. 
"May we be better able to Vaclav Nelhybel, Mr. James 
emulate the example of true Feddersen, Dr. Norman Delio Christian sensitivity in artistic Joio, Dr. Alfred Reed, Dr. William 
standards as set forth by the Revelli, and Prof. Glenn C. recipient of our award, CoL Arnald Bainum. 
A MOTHER'S DAY SPECIAL WITH 






FRANK ZAPPA 
AND THE 
MOTHERS OF INVENTION 
and special guest soon to be announced 
Sunday, May J2 
7:30pm 
at the Notre Dame A. C. C. 
Tickets are $5.50, $4.50, and $3.50 and are availbable at the ACC Box Office, Boogie Records .and the other usua I ticket outlets in the 
area. 

PRODUCED BY BOOGIE RECORDS & KARMA-SHOWCASE PRODUCTIONS 
IH( ')I~)H 81ffWHIY COMPANY OflR()II MICHIGAN 481?6 


' 
Oil production to be cut soon 
--~--­

~----~---------------------------------­

LONDON <UPI) Oil producing countries may begin cutting production to ensure their future prosperity, Secre­tary General Dr. Abderrah­mane K h e n e of the Organization of Petroleum Ex­porting Countries said Thurs­day. 
Khene said OPEC members Kuwait and Libya already had cut their oil production to "ensure the prosperity of future generations." 
He told a London conference on oil and international money that OPEC had no official conservation policy at present, but predicted all oil producers would follow this course "even­tually." 
"OPEC countries are no 
different from any other country in seeing where the best interests of their peoples lie," Khene said. 
He said they could see "it would be folly" to continue pumping oil so fast that the world's oil reserves would be 
heavily  reduced  in  the  next  
three decades.  
Khene  said  the  desert  Arab  

1111Dtllllmnmmmnmm.mtmm mmnmmumnmmmnmllnmmmnmnnmnnnnmllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllmnmnm uullmllunun n 11111111 
BEACH BOYS TRIVIA 
1. 
Who or what is "American Spring"? 

2. 
What is the title of the dance composition produced by the Jaffrey Ballet featuring the songs of the Beach Boys? 

3. 
Who is the oldest Beach Boy (chronologically) ? 

4. 
What famous T.V. star, singer and former session musician once toured with the band in place of Brian Wilson? 

5. 
True 'of False: The Beach Boys and the Grateful Dead once played together. 

6. 
Which Beach Boy has a brother in professional sports? 

7. 
Who is Murray Wilson? 


8. 
What physical disability does Brain Wilson suffer from which caused him to stop touring with the band? 

9. 
What instrument does each Beach Boy nor­mally play? 

10. 
Who wrote "Surfin' U.S.A."? 


ilillllllll" u 111111111111111m lllllllllli 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111mmmmmtmumnnmmmnm 
Jaworski gets tax records 
By  CLAY  RICHARDS  
WASHINGTON  <UPIJ  - The  
Internal  Revenue  Service  has  
Lurned  its  records  of  the  

investigation of President Nixon's tax returns over to Special Watergate Prosecutor Leon Jaworski, it was reported Thursday. 
Arthur Blech, the Los An­geles tax accountant who prepared the President's taxes told UPI he had been informed that testimony he gave the IRS in early March had been turned over to Jaworski. 
Attorney General William Saxbe said earlier that Jawor­ski had requested permission to 
handle the returns. 
The special prosecutor's of­fice would become involved in the investigation if possible fra~d were suspected in prepa­ratiOn of the tax returns. 
"I have not been informed that I am a target of the investigation and I don't believe I will be," Blech said in an telephone interview from his Los Angeles office. "But I was told the testimony I gave the IRS was being turned over to Mr. Jaworski." 




RoGERS 

Optical 
lOGO AlWRl • QWNH 

Blech, a prominent West Coast 'tax accountant, has maintained he never talked with Nixon directly about the tax returns, but prepared them on specific directions from Frank DeMarco Jr., one of Nixon's personal lawyers and tax advisers. 
Blech said he had not been contacted by Jaworski's office about the tax returns and did not know if he would be called to testify. 
Jaworski's office and the IRS refused to confirm that the tax case had been turned over to the special prosecutor. 
The Washington Star-News reported that DeMarco had been scheduled to meet soon with an IRS investigator, but now was scheduled to meet with Jaworski's staff instead. 
Earlier this month, reviews by the IRS and Congress' joint tax committee concluded Nixon had underpaid federal taxes by more than $430,000. Nixon said he would pay the back taxes and interest costs as deter­mined by the IRS. 
The two studies found that Nixon's deduction of the dona-
HOUitS. 
MON • TUES • ntua • Pll 
, AN. S.:IOI'M W!D -SAT 9 AN. 12 NOON COMrt.erf SPEICrAQE SEIYICE ALL flE of.'S 
I'IIHCRIPTIONS H0N0tEt 
e..I! 

289-7809 

·spJOM a4~ a~OJM aAOl a)j!W pue :>tsnw a4~ a~oJM AJJaS )j:>n4J ·oL 
swnJp ·Jee~e::l A)j:>!~ 'Je~tn6 W4~A4J -au,pJer uerv 'JaZtSa4~UAS pue Ste:>OA -aAOl a)j!W 'SpJeoqAa)j -uOSI!M stuuaa 'Je~tn6 peat -uoSI!M tJeJ ·6 

·s.-<.ep .-<.pea Jta4~ U! pueq a4t pa6euew 04M UOSI!M stuuaa pue 'tJeJ 'Ue!J8 JO Ja4te! ate I a4.l ·L 
·dnoJ6 a4~ !O Ja6uew ssautsnq a4~ S! aAa~s Ja4~oJq Ja4~o S!H ·11eqta1seq teuotsSa!OJd s.-<.etd uets Ja4tOJq s,a1101 a)j!W ·9 
"LL6li!Jd"'if U! ~se3 aJOWIIH a4~ ~e 'aJn.L ·s 

,dnoJ a:>naa, ·l 

·sp..1o:>a~ stSJPV pa~Jun uo 
wnq1e ue papJo:>aJ aAe4 .-<.a4.l 'llaAo~ aueta pua]J! Ja4 pue UAI!JeW aHM S,UIOSI!M Ue!J8 JO 6U!~SJSUO:> dnOJ6 6UJ6UJS e S! 6U]JdS ue:>tJaW"'if "l 
S~3MSNV 
countries had "either none or negligible resources" apart from oil. "Their obvious inter­ests would be in preserving" their unique trading assets, he said. 
The oil chief urged nations of the industrialized world to cut back on their own, this time in consumption of energy. 
"I see no solution to the acute problem we are facing other than for the industrial world to slow down its energy consump­lion rapidly and very signifi­cantly and increase the production of its indigenous energy resources, unless they 
discover  a  new  North  Sea  oil  
field  every  year  or  every  two  
years," he said.  

Khene said last year's dra­matic price increase for oil by the exporting countries was "merely to protect their own interests." But he said it was hoped the higher prices would help conserve dwindling resour­ces. 

I NOMINATIONS FOR GSU 
Now ·being accepted for Vice-President 
and Secretary-Treasurer. 1 All interested Grads see Bill Lavage, ;Memorial Library or Paul Bolduc, 373NSH 
\ Elections April 26 
-~~~------~--~-----­
tion of his vice presidential papers to the National Archives was improper. It also said Nixon failed to pay taxes on capital gains resulting from the sale of his New York City apartment. 
The White House issued a statement saying that mistakes in Nixon's tax returns were made "by those to whom he de !ega ted the responsibility for preparing his returns and were made without his knowledge and without his approval." 

PITTSBURGH' PAINTS 
Student Discounts on Latex Wall Paints 
Home Decor Center College square 121 W. McKinley Mishawaka, Ind. Ph. 256-1511 Open Mon-Fri 8-6 Sat -8-4 



l·2f the observer 

Friday, AprU 19, 1974 
Bar owners fight student destruction. theft 
(continued from page 4) cigarette burns in this carpet. cease, ana the pressure would be You can't pick up cigarettes wit~ a off us to stop something we toften vacuum cleaner. You have to pick can't stop." them up by hand. I've seen While the law prohibits mornings wit~ an ashtray on a customers form drinking outside table and 20 cigarettes put out on the bar, hundreds of Senior Bar the carpet around the table," the members will mill around on the Nickie's bartender says. grass , outside the bar in warm In the student bars, pictures get weather. Tony Zuaro, manager of torn down from th~ walls. Bar the Senior Bar, suggests: stools are stolen. Pmball and pool "Because we're on University tables are bange~ around. The bar property and the University has its owners have a litter problem but own security force, I think the they were forced to go to paper authorities tend to look the other cups partly because customers way." were stealing their glassware. Zuaro at the Senior Bar tells Damage about the Southern Cal football weekend when a new set of drapes At 11:30 a .m: one of the bar­in one of the upstairs rooms were tenders at Nickie's sits resting torn down and thrown out the his arms on the bar, obviously window, along with a few chairs. tired. On this morning and two 
Rewards

"If people treated the places a
others during the week, he comes Tony Zuaro says he enjoys to make them feel thatthey own the
little better, they might have nicer 
to clean up from the night before. making the Senior Bar what the place. We have to do what the
Despite the legal hassles and
bars to go to because the owners
"Whatever you do," he advises, He takes seniors want."
seniors want it to be. 
"don't ever work as a bartender at wouldn't be afraid to fix the places the expenses involved, Joe Mellleaves it short, "It's a
up," the morning bartender at something must make the campus suggestions from members on 
a student bar." 

bar business worthwhile. what they want on special for given good business. I'm not com­Nickie's says.
"There are thousands of weeks. A few weeks ago, the bar plaining." ran a special one night, offering Rick Kanser says that N.D. is a drinks for 25 cents. They sold 2,000 good place to be around, especially 

By Hesburgh 

drinks in about four hours. with the success of the football and basketball teams this year.
"With social life practicaly nill "Few campuses are as much fun here, you really need a campus as N.D.," Kanser says. "Some





Food shortage predicted 
bar," Zuaro commented. "This is nights, this is the most fun business the seniors' own place and we try 
in the world." by Jeanne Murphy 
leadership for a change" in averting
Wire Editor 

famine in countries containing ' 
Predicting that an imminent nearly a fourth of the world's THE ACADEMIC COMMISSION global food crisis "will make the population. energy crisis look like a picnic," Hesburgh did not call on the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh ap­present top levels in Washington presents pealed to the Overseas Develop­for moral leadership. "I don't ment Council at a luncheon last think the present cast of charac­week. He is chairman of the board ters (in Washington) is the United 
HIGH PLAINS 
which is creating a new report States of America. I think titled "Agenda for Action, 1974," leadership is where you find it, and 
on impending shortages of food if you don't get it where you expect DRIFTER 
and other commodities. it, you look somewhere else. There (Rated R)Hesburgh called on the United is a tremendous well of leadership States to "give a little moral in this country," he continued. Tonight 8 & 1 0 p.m.The 'Fourth World' consisting ofStudent art 40 countries with an aggregate 
WASHINGTON HALL
population of 900 million is im­
show to open mimently threatned by a crisis of three vital commodities-fuel, food and fertilizer, according to
April 20-May 19 Hesburgh.
"Clowns on Fire" is the theme He claimed that the presentof the 21st annual Student Art Show famine south of the Sahara Desert in the O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery. in Africa would spread to India, The exhibit, open to the public Pakistan and Bangladesh within without charge, opens Sunday, the upcoming year.April 21, with a reception from 2 to Because these countries have no i 5 p.m. and will continue through rich sources of exportable goods , May 19. like other "developing" nations, . 
The juried show is open to all they are at rock bottom on the undergraduate and graduate art economic scale. 
Hesburgh: Leadership must be
majors as well as almost 400 These underdeveloped nations students from other departments range from the Maldive Islands found somewhere other than who are enrolled in art classes. where the national gross income Washington. 
Members of the jury are art per person is $90 a year with a teachers Robert A. Leader, Joseph population of 100,000 to India with minimal, he assured. He com­
G. Rushton; graduate art majors 600 million inhabitants and a mented, "Suppose every American 
Carol Carter and Fr. Albert Moore, national gross income average of every week gave up just one bigand undergraduate majors An­$110. McDonald's quarter poundthony Herrera and John Brunelle. Hesburgh believes the time is 
hamburger. That sacrifice would Works accepted for display coming when "people will turn on be equivalent to saving between range from the traditional and TV at night and watch other people ten million and 13 million tons of
modern types of painting and starve to death." 
grain that could be used to feed 
sculpture to photography,
I Sacrifice to obtain maximum these starving people of the 
I graphics. drawings, ceramics and benefits for these people is 'Fourth World.'"light sculpture. The entire show is 
I 
directed by the students, with
t 
seniors responsible this year for
I 
I 
title selection, exhibit techniques, and other activities of a major 
exhibition .
• Over ttie years since the rirst exhibit in 1953, the student show 
I ~ has featured senior-only displays, graduate thesis projects or works of all art majors. The trend in recent years has been to include as many students as possible in the 
~ 
show. The Gallery is open to the
J 
public from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., weekdays and 1 to 5 p.m. weekends. Selected works of Ivan Mestrovic, the University's late sculptor-in-residence from Yugoslavia, will be displayed from April 27 through June 23 in the same gallery. 


I 
-~.-----·------------~---~~ 
the -ohs·erver•

I 
Frida.y, April ,Jq, 1974 
Three vie for top Israeli post 
By THOMAS ACKERMAN Abba Eban, who both were reported willing to run.
TEL AVIV <UPO -The race A caucus of the partys Mapai
to succeed outgoing Prime faction urged Finance MinisterMinister Golda Meir narrowed Pinhas Sapir to change hisThursday to three of her mind and seek the nominationministers, sources within her 
for the premiership, a party
ruling Labor party said. 
source said. He has rejectedAssociates of Information 
the offer several times.

minister Shimon Peres said he "This is becoming a realhad openly declared his can­free-for-all, just like an Ameri­
didacy for th~ nomination, can political campaign, for thejoining Labor Minister Yitzhak 
first time in Israel's history,"
Rabin and Foreign Minister said a source in Peres' Rafi 
Model agencies accused of making false promises 
By MICHAEL J. CONLON advertising media .. .if the infor­WASHINGTON<UPI) -The mation we have is correct, we Federal Trade Commission could be very interested in your 
Thursday accused three talent child. It may be to your 
scout agencies of dangling false advantage if would call etc ... " promises in front of parents to The FTC said the firm, called lure them into signing up their "National Talent Associates ehildren for non-existant model-Inc." and located in Hollywood, mg and acting jobs. · Chicago and Rutherford Park, 
The FTC said the firms used N. J ., charged the parents $135 newspaper birth announce­to sign up a child, and then ments and mailing lists to send send them to have photographs letters to parents, one of which made at a studio controlled by began: officers of the company. 
"We have received informa­"Children placed under con­tion indicating that your child tracts have little or no chance may have the necessary qualifi­for obtaining paid employment cations for the commercial as models, actors, actresses or 
entertainers," the FTC said.
Lead wicks are The complaint also named 
the William Schuller Agency
found to be a Inc., of New York and 
Hollywood, and its principal 
owner and officer, Monica
health hazard Stuart. The firms were claim­
ing that Miss Stuart "personal­
WASHINGTON <UPI) -Ex­ly places hundreds of children 
perts in two government in print and TV advertisements 
agencies have concluded that every year." 
millions of candles with lead In reality, the FTC said, 
wicks are a health hazard. and "NTA does not have the 
should be banned, it was business experience, knowledge
disclosed Thursday. or expertise needed to select 
The Ralph Nader-backed the most qualified persons for 
Health Research Group such employment. Ninty-eight
released a Consumer Product or 99 out of 100 children placed
Safety Commission study which under contract by NTA are 
recommended a ban on candles later rejected by Monica Stuart 
with lead wires in their wicks of the William Schuller Agency 
after giving the manufacturers Inc., and are not signed to any
time to make the changeover. agency contract." 
The report said that one The agency said NTA's prime
major candlemaker, Hallmark, source of income is the $135 
already is developing a substi­contract fee -not "its ability to 
tute for the lead wick and that place children under contract 
other substitutes have been with the leading advertising,
worked out. modeling, talent or entertain­
The group also released a ment agencies."
letter to the commission from It also accused the firm of 
Environmental Protection employing high pressure sales 
Agency Administrator Russell tactics under which parents are 
E. Train who said his scientists told they must sign the contract had determined that burning and pay the fee immediately or just two candles for three hours they will lose out on a chance a day in a home could result in for their child to be considered. lead levels in the air that The FTC said it is seeking a "could equal or exceed the end to the business practices it exposure to airborne lead considers illegal as well as an 
associated with the busiest order under which the firms freeways in America." would have to give their The CPSC refused last Dec. customers three days to change21 to ban the candles. their minds after signing a 
contract.
Campus Life 
changed 

All those interested in working on next year's Campus Life Commission should meet Sunday, at 1:30 p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom. 
Activities of the Commission include a coffeehouse, films, and co-exchange meal tickets. 
The meeting for those interested in working for the campus-wide coffeehouse has been changed from 1:15 to 1:30p.m., Sunday, and from the Fiesta Lounge to the LaFortune Ballroom, to coincide with the general meeting. 
~ ~ ·~ ·~
... • ..... .............. '" ·-....., .... .. 

wing of the party. intentions. Yadlin heads the 
The party's 614-member cen­five-man committee that will tral committee is to convene submit the candidates' names Sunday to -vote for a nominee to the central committee. who would go to President Almogi and Zadok, the Ephraim Katzir and offer to sources said, expressed unwill­put together a new caretaker ingness to run. cabinet, succeeding Mrs. Meir's The sources said Finance government. Minister Pinhas Sapir, the 
Labor sources said the party's unchallenged kingmak­committee is expected to adopt er and top power behind its Eban 's proposal requiring an nationwide organization, said absolute majority vote for he would not interfere in the nomination. Thus, the top two race or recommend his own vote-getters will probably go preference. into a runoff ballot Monday, the Sapir said this week he was sources said. determined not to run himself, 
Labor party secretary gener­but associates in the party's al Aharon Yadlin conferred majority Mapai wing said they with the three top contenders would continue to propose that and Deputy Prime Minister he seek Mrs. Meir's post. Yigal Allon, Haifa Mayor Yosef Sources in Rafi, the party Almogi and Justice Minister faction nominally led by De­Bairn Zadok, to ask about their fense minister Moshe Davan 
Sad at expresses regret 

over Russian's attitude 
By MAllHICE GUINDI 
CAIRO <UPil -President Anwar Sadat said Thursday the Soviet Union has failed to come through with Egyptian arms requests since the October Arab-Israeli war and indicated one reason may be Cairo's warming relations with Wa­shington. 
Sadat said the present state of Egyptian-Soviet relations was due to a "misunderstan­ding" and said he was ready to "sit down with the Soviets as friends and clear up the misunderstanding_" 
Sadat said Egypt "does not want to be friendly with the United States at the expense of the Soviet Union or vice versa." 
He said among possible causes of the misunderstanding might be "our rapprochement with America and the West and our open door economic poli­cy." 
Sadat said there has been c.t "fundamental change" in U.S. Middle East policy. He said instead of the former "100 per cent bias in favor of Israel," American policy was now even-• handed. 
Sadat spoke at a joint session of the People's Council (par­liament) and the executive commitee of the Arab Socialist Union <ASUl, Egypt's only political party. 
Sadat presented to the joint session a lengthy document designed as a blueprint for Egyptian strategy and domestic policy for the years ahead. The meeting approved the document and decided to put its recom-
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR 
NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sur}. 
Thru June 15th, 1974 except May 18 and 19. 

HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond.,. Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 
6 
~.. ~. .. . • o o • o , 1 ·~ ~. 1 0 .ft. .._ rt. ._ •• o·. • "• '• "' j: . 4 ~ • • -.J f t •.• ,t I -· .f ·' 0 I f • • 0 
"' • 

mendations to the people in a' national referendum May 15. 
In his speech reviewing the current state of Egypt's rela­tions with the superpowers, Sadat said: 
"We presented some military requests to the Soviet Union which have not been met so far. Over the last six months I sent four messages to <Soviet Communist party leader Leo­nid) Brezhnev concerning these requests." 
But Sadat said all he received from the Russians were two messages saying the requests were "under study" 
He said because of this he had decided "to diversify our 
and Peres, said the outcome ot the balloting hinged on how the Mapai committee members 
votes  were cast.  
Eban,  they  said,  could  depend  
only  on  a  certain  proportion  of  

Mapai representatives, while the balance would be divided between Rabin and Peres. 
Mrs. Meir tendered her resignation last week, saying she sensed a popular discontent with her government since the October Middle East war, and indicating she favored national elections to "reassess the nations puli tical will". 
The party's leadership, howe­ver, voted this week to try a1 .d form a new caretaker gove1 1­ment without recourse to elections so soon after the Dec. 31 balloting in which Mrs. Meir's party lost strength. 

LOIS TRANTER CRAIG KAPSON ,--............. 259-1981 
IROO·H.AR 


Jordan Ford 
609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 

sources of arms supplies." L-----------..;,..,.;;,_..J 
School house Too 
In the Brewery 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka, Ind. Phone -259-8181









(fill


The midwest's most complete needlepoint shop 
SPECIAL: 10 percent discount upon presentation of student I D HOURS: MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm SUNDAY, 12 
'I 
NOW RENTING 
c one and two bedroom furnished apartments
A 
Featuring:

M + 
SWIMfv'ING POOL
P . + COM~UNITY BUILDING ,U..'./ + 2 ~;THS IN THE 2 BED:~~:TMENTS 
.·~."c·'.,! ~:=H~i:~ONING 
·· +RANG~

\1--· + REFRI~E_RATOR 
+ GARB4GE DISPOSAL.I .· + TENNIS COURT 
+ LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM
E 
CAMPUS! 


"APARTMENTS WITH
w 
THE STUDENT IN MIND " 
call 232-5853 for rente-I information or visit crestwood management comr:dny 3012 east edison road, south 
bend· 
,1 

l 
l 
l 1 
I 
l 
f I I 
~ 
I l 
1 
l 
j 
I 
l 
1 
1 
1 
,_,_-------------~-~ ~ -~~ 
1 
I 14 ,, , the observer .. Friday, April 19, 197.4. ,
" ~~;·:·~()"",(}~.., 'J~.... "? . ' • -, L, 1.•' 'l. , ~.f., •) •'1 ~ 


Sweeney'sShirts go international 
by l\1a.-ia Gallaght>r Staff Hrportet· 

About ten years ago a group of typical Notre Dame students decided they wanted a special shirt to wear to their favorite South Bend bar. One of them had a father in the athletic uniform business. so they put their heads together and the Sweeney's sweatshirt was born. 
Now ten years and thousands of swl'atshirts later. the familiar sweatshirt with the big grel'n shamrock is still a popular item. Though othl'r businesses in the area have followl'd suit with the swPatshirl idea, the genuine Swl'eney's shirt is by far the best 
st>ller. 

Mary SwPcney Looney, who with hl'r husband Charles presides over SwPl'nl'y's Shamrock on Main St reel. designed the shirt seen round the country. 
"Wl' buy several hundred every year and they always sell out," said 1\lrs. Looney. "We get calls from all over the country and always have 'rush' orders to send out during football season. Peo~le have told me they've seen Sweeney's shirts in England, Europe, Greece -one even gave me a picture of a soldier wearing one in Vietnam." 
There were a dozen original Sweeney's sweatshirts, which through a printer's mistake ap­peared without the apostrophe. But they prompted such a trenwndous response that a 
reorder was made, and a tradition begun. 
''I'd give anything to have one of those original shirts," said Mrs. Looney. "I know of at least one South. Bend, hut the owner wouldn '1 hear of parting with it. He wears it to all the football games." 
The shirts are manufactured by a Waterloo, Iowa· , firm. Mark Widner. one of the student originators of the idea, is now in the business with his father. 
"Ovl'r the years we've kept the 
finest quality cotton in them, but 
now that there's a cotton shortage 
the prices have been going up," 
Mrs. Looney noted. "Recently 
we've taken four price increases 
but we've raised the cost to 
customers only twice. We've also 
had to absorb higher taxes and 
postal fees." 
The shirt currently sells for $5.75 

but a 10 per cent increase is ex­
pected May 1. 
"We'd like to keep the price 

around $6.00," Mrs. Looney ex­
plained. 
There have also been problems in obtaining certain sizes. This year Sweeney's received moslly large and extra-large shirts. with only a few mediums. They wt>rc unable to get any smaller sizes. 
"But most people buy them big anyway, no matter what size they wear," noted Mrs. Looney. 
Does Father Hesburgh have a Sweeney's shirt? 
"No, but I think heshould, don't you?" asked Mrs. Looney. 
SMC hosts symposium 

Saint Mary's College will be the site of a day-long symposium, "Women: Choices and Careers," Saturday, April 20, 1974. Begin­ning at 9:30a.m., registration will be held at the west entrance of Madeleva Memorial classroom building. 
Sponsored by the Indiana Career Resource Center, "Women: Choices and Careers" is aimed at all Michiana-area girls and women. The purpose of the symposium is to facilitate in­creased communication among women's groups in the community, and to gain a better understanding of the needs felt by area women for career assistance. · 
The day's agenda will include several special workshops plus a panel discussion. Some of the topics to be covered are: sex roles, discrimination, the woman as sole supporter of a family, mid-career changes, day care, occupational counseling for high school students, and assertiveness training. 
Invitations to the symposium have been extended to local high school and college counselors and students, area social agencies, various women's organizations, and youth groups. However, all Michiana residents concerned with opportunities for girls and women are encouraged to attend. 
A $3.00 fee covers all activities plus morning coffee and luncheon. Tickets may be purchased at the door the day of the symposium. 
For further information, please contact Carol Berry at the Indiana Career Resource Center, 289-2851, or the office of public information at Saint Mary's College, 284-4854. 
Student fast urged May I 
On Wednesday, May 1st, students in colleges and high schools across America are en­couraged to organize the "Fast to Save a People." Co-sponsored by Oxfam -American and Project Relief, the Fast is aimed at helping the six to ten million people who 
· face death from starvation as a result of the ongoing African drought, which has been called "the worst ecological disaster of the century." 
On May 1st, students are urged to skip one or all of the day's meals 
Marshall calls for stability 
(continued from page 1) 

adversary,in which the questions asked are, Who stands firm? and Who presses? How far a country in today's world can push a potential adversary on an issue or issues that they are in conflict about can lead to an eventual war." 
Marshall ended his speech by pointing out that there is a political weakness in "certain non­cornm unist countries" today. Until the internal stability of the "certain" nations is resolved, the stability of the world rests in the cradle. 
The symposium continues tomorrow at the CCE building with sessions at 9 a.m., 2 and 8 p.m. On the final day, Saturday, two sessions will be held, one at 9 a.m. and the other at 2 p.m. All sessions will be held in rooms 21G-214. 
and to donate the money thus saved to help the people of the drought-stricken area. Students are also encouraged to solicit financial sponsors to underwrite their fast. 
Funds raised in this way will be used immediately for food, family planning and medical assistance. In addition, they will be carefully channeled into long-range programs to help build the kind of sound and sustainable agriculture urgently needed in these developmg nations. 
Co-sponsors of the day-long fast are Oxfam-American and Project Hdief. Oxfam-American has 30 years of experience in the field of international relief and long term devlopment assistance. 
Project Relief is a non-profit charitable fund-raising organization which was established in 1971 in response to the needs of Bengali refugees in India. Project Relief is now focusing its energies on the African drought disaster. 
K.O. SPINS THIS AFTERNOON & TONIGHT AT THE 
SENIOR BAR 
HAPPY HOURS 4-6 25' PINTS 
WINE COOLERS 3-$1.00 
JUNIORS-DON'T FORGET­JUNIOR NIGHT A-T THE SENIOR BAR TUESDAY APRIL 23 8:30-1:00 
Two Notre Dame students salute Sweeney's on their tenth anniversary of sweatshirt tradition. (Staff photo by Paul Joyce) 
RESERVATIONS
I 
284-4176 
w NO
~ 
Student • Faculty
SMC 
ND·SMC Staff 



THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 


John Gay's ribald musical romp Apr. 26, 27, May 2, 3, 4 at 8:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
_j 
~·························· 
Cinema 74 presents 
the ERNST LUBITSCH FILM FESTIVAL 
Sunday, 2:00 p.m. -The Love Parade Sunday, 8:00 p.m.-Monte Carlo Monday, 8 & 10 p.m.-Design for Living Tuesday,8& 10p.m.-One Hour with You Wednesday, 8:00 p.m.-Broken Lullaby Wednesday, 10:00 p.m.-Trouble in Paradise Thursday, 8 & 10 p.m.-Bluebeard's Eighth Wife 
All Showings in the Engineering Aud. 
Admission $1.00 each showing Cinema 74 Patrons Free 





Netters dump W.Michiga 
by John Vincent 

They say that tennis was meant to be played outside and the Notre Dame tennis team had the weather to do just that this past Wednesday as they manhandled Western Michigan 8-1 at the Courtney Tennis Center. The victory was the 12th for the Irish against only five losses. 
Brandon Walsh, the Irish team captain defeated Western Michigan's Tim Mace 6-2, 6-2 to gain his 13th victory in 17 matches. The senior from Jamaica has been playing in the number three spot for Notre Dame so far this season. Teammate Juan lnchauste clobberred Jim Fodell 6-3, 6-0 to record his 14th victory against only three losses. 
The most potent doubles com­bination for Notre Dame has come from John Carrico and Randy Stahlik. The ~wo have paired for 13 victories in their 17 matches. Stehlik, a freshman from Peru, Indiana is also 11-6 in singles ac­tion. This past summer he cap­tured the state 18-and-under title in singles and doubles as well as playing on the Indiana Juniro Davis Cup team. He is the only left hander on the squad. 
The Irish face Central Michigan today at the Courtney Tennis 
An Tostal 
for Sunny Saturday 
The Second Annual Notre Dame Decathlon, an event gaining widespread popularity of late, will get under way starting at 9:15 this evening with the speed skating competition at the ACC. 
The decathlon is based primarily on t.he "Superstars" event run by ABC Sports. With the abundance of "jock" types on campus, the competition should, no doubt, be fierce with the winner emerging in possession of an impressive title. Last year's "best all-round athlete" proved to be swimmer Joe O'Connor who captured the event with 802 out of a possible 1000 points. O'Connor will return this year to defend his crown as will Ed 
Irish Guard tryouts scheduled 
Robert O'Brien, director of squad," noted Cavanaugh. "This Final tryouts will be in AugustNotre Dame bands, announced preliminary tryout is to give when school resumes. Further preliminary tryouts for the Irish people who are interested in the information can be obtained form Guard will be held Monday, April Guard a chance to see what the Cavanaugh at 8453, or Dick Keenan 22, and Tuesday, April 23, at 4:30 Guard does." at 8460. 
p.m. in the band room in r--~------"""::':':':~~~--------------..... was~~n:~~~if~~~1~ndidates must be tit ~~~r:=;=~:;:~;~=;=~;~:~:;:;~~~!~j 256-0111 
6'2 or taller with no weight limit. l!id HHra:< ···· •·· All returning classes are eligible. ~&iJH!&\\ ~L.().t-J PAINTINGS ~l1 
Cards

st~~:;~ ~~~~a~b~:f~fel~a~~n~u:: §~~&~ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::;:;:;::::1 Books 
ching experience is necessary. \1~·~ ··11 Magazines
"Also, this year's Guard town&country,.. ~J1~~ ;~~m;iracle lane members are not necessarily. ..nopping ....., -~,(...J<. mishawaka. indiana 46544 Art S·J pplies
guaranteed spots on next year's '~~~-----.;.....:.:._______________:..:.::.::,;.;,::;.:.J 
ATTENTION ARTS AND LETTERS 
Present Freshman, Sophomores, and Juniors. Applications for the '74-75 A&L STUDENT ADVISORY COUNCIL 
are now being accepted. Each applicant must write a brief statement-­one typewritten page or less--on why the person would be interested and qualified. Please include present class year, address, and phone number 
and submit it to the ' 
DEAN'S OFFICE, ROOM 137 O'SHAUGHNESSEY, NO LATER THAN THURSDAY, APRIL 25 AT 4:PM 
{interviews will then be arranged) 
Irish team captain Brandon Walsh 
Center at 2:30 and meet Ohio State Dame. on Sunday at 1:00 here at at Notre 


decathlon slated 
'•, • ·': •.• ~-:. -' -:,.",~,"i' ~ 
Friday, Aprit 19, 1974 
PERSONALS 

Bizarre but interesting senior offering opportunity for amiable, companionable and· or friendly girl to enjoy his peerless company at the Beach Boy's concert. For telephone interview call 8297. 
IS THERE 
NO END ... 
Tropical storm 
Sighted again! 
Will hit Friday sometime after 
9. Weather Service advises strong preparation. 
PERSON WHO FOUND KEYS MARKED 384. PLEASE CALL 1867 AGAIN. FORGOT TO GET YOUR NAME AND NUMBER. THANKS. AT 384 DILLON 
Artie Q. Thank you, thank you. It was such a nice thing tor you to do. Hapy Birthday too! Sorry it is overdue. 
P.Q. 

Flash!! Tropical storm will definitely strike South Bend Friday around 9:30 p.m. Rum tor cover (again}. We're gonna get smashed (again)! 
Greenie Stick'em Caps, you're right! You are driving me crazy. 
The Computer Kid 

MECHA members cordially invite their Chicano brothers and sisters to a fiesta tonight in the Badin basement 8: 30·12. 
Bill & AI: Did you have a Gentle Thur. sday? 
I'm sure M did! 
Andy-Love your red face! gerbils 
Terry: I love your face, no matter what color it is. 
Your secret ildmirer 
FOR SALE 

For sale: 2 $5.50 tickets tor Beach Boys Concert. Good seats on the floor section B. Call 6995 
For sale : 2 Beach Boy tix: Section 13, Section 11 ($5.50}. Call Bob 8593 
For sale: Two Beach Boy tickets. $3.50 a piece. Call Dan 8949. 
For sale-! Beach Boys Bleacher seat. Call 8539. 
Fbr Sale: 2 Beach Boy tix. Section 6. Ca II 234·7036. 
Finally!!! Kerouac Biography in paperback. Good reading, not at Pandora's Books. 
Sanyo 3300 KA Quad reciever at 20 watts per channel RMS. J VC demodulator, 4 speakers. Excellent condition, 5 months old. List $845.00 Can be had for $575.00. Call 1506. 
Fender Bandmaster amplifier head. Pre.c. B.S. $125.00 or best offer. Call 233·1876. 
Pioneer SX·626 receiver. 11 months old, inexcellent con. dition and still under warrantee. $200.00. Call Jim 1487. 
Yahama folk guitar (FG·130) and vinyl case $98.50. Ravinder 8829. 
Brank new marker bindings for sale. Phone Judy 4970. 
'67 Camero convertible; 122 E. Navare, South Bend, Indiana, 233·2712 
Ladies clothes; Designer bargains ! .50 to $5.00, Sat. and Sun. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.. 1135 Lakewood Drive. 
Handmade Indian turquoise jewelry from New Mexico. Fine selection of bracelets, rings, watchbands, ac. cessories. Call 7833 or drop by 101 Lyons. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost in Space Tech: Soc· Psych. notebook; Important!!! Call Larry 3301 
Lost ring. White gold with blue stone and NO encrusting. Engraving is N.L.M, '75. Call 8810 
Found: set of keys in a leather case in the AV Theatre of Continuing Education Center. Call 6423. 

NOTICES 

Cheapest way to travel! Scooter Britain-Europe $33 per week. Lambretta seats two. Also world wide over land camping and lowest air fares. Trail Blazers. Call, toll free, 800·223·5586. 
Experienced typist will do: term papers, manuscripts, etc. Ca II 233·5332 
Logan Volunteers: saturday rec. 9·11:30 a.m. ; brief meeting to follow 
GSU meeting, Friday, April 19, 12 noon. 127 NSH. 
Juniors: Tuesday JUNIORS: TUESDAY APRIL 231S JUNIOR NIGHT AT THE SENIOR BAR. ALL JUNIORS INVITED. BE THERE! BRING 211D. 
The Dominicans-educators, preachers, pastors. missionar'es, counselors. A community of men praying and working together, bringing the Word of the Gospel to the spiritual, intellectual and social needs of the world today. Write to: Rev. Joseph Payne, 
O.P.• 5 Hill House Avenue, New Haven, Conn. 06505. 
Madame Fifi's spring clearance sale-Everything must go! We aim to please. 129? 
Typing, term papers, thesis, dissertations. Professionally done with electric typewriter, carbon ribbon. Reasonable. Call 233·6638. 
WANTED 

Help wanted! Overseas jobs­Australia, Europe S. America, Africa. Students all professions and occupatiokns $700 to $3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing, Free information. TRANS WORLD RESEARCH CO. De~. F~ 
P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA. 94925 
Person to work 30+ hours. Alternate publications; distribution. Low $. Good tella workers. Call 232·8500 after 5 p.m. 
HOUSE PARENTS: Married couple, pretereably without children to live in Girls Group Home. Room and board plus monthly salary. $400 upward depending on experience. Summer job with possibility of continuation. Husband may work or study outside Home. Time off is provided. Call Mrs. Carol Wilken at 233·4491 
House mates from June to August. Call Christy 232·7415 
Need used piano. Will pay $$$. Call Jim 1171 
Bikeless couple willing to store two bikes ( 1 man's and 1 woman's} over summer vacation in exchange for their use tor evening recreation. Call Don Bouffard at 7354. 
Part time help, weekend evenings parking cars. Call 291.5131 
FOR RENT 

Students want to rent next years house tor summer. 5 bedrooms, close to campus. Call 5703, 4410, or 1312. 
3·man house for summer. Good location on Notre Dame 
I 

Avenue. Call Gary 1373 
I

5 bedroom house tor rent near 
campus. ExceiJ,··,t condition. I. 233·1032 
House tor rent: 4 bdr., newly 
I 

furnished wall to wall car. peting close to campus. Available tor summer and tall occupency. Graduate students only. Call AI Brasseur, 289·2463 before 5 p.m. 
Notre Dame Apt. tor rent tor '74 school year. Call Ed, 3366 
4·bedroom house for rent. June 1. 1974 to August 31, 1975. Call 234.0393. 
RIDES 

Riders needed: to Chicago Friday, April 19-leaving after 
11:30  a.m.  Call  7471-Tom  
Drape.  
Three  girls need  ride  to  see  

Gatsby tonight. Call 1295. 
-
Byrne who placed runner-up last year with 800 pts. 
The decathlon is open to all students, including any varsity athletes, and faculty. The in­dividual events are based on 100 points maximum for a perfect performance with the minimum number of points any entree can receive for an event being ten. 
The events are as follows: 
April 19, 9:15pm. 
1. l Speed Skating-ACC (three times around the rink) 
April 20 2.) 6:00 a.m.-Nine holes of golf-Burke Memorial Golf Course 3.) 30 free throws-Rock 
4.) 100 yard freestyle swim­Ro~k pool 5.) Softball throw-12" softball, Cartier Field 6.) Shot put-12 poind shot-Cartier Field 7.) Running long jump-Cartier Field 
8.) 100 yard dash-Cartier Field 
9.) Billiards 
10.) Mile run--{)ut on •he South Quad 
Fireworks 
The An Tostal fireworks display, originally scheduled for Gentle Thursday, has been re-scheduled for Frivolous Friday at 8:00p.m., at Stepan Center. 
Friday, April 19, 1974
16 "· the observer. 

Tom Hansen-sneakers to cletes in one easy step 

by John Fineran 

Baseball Hall of Farner Tee! Williams says the hardest thing to do in all athletics is to 1hit a baseball. The former Boston Red Sox great will get no argument from Notre Dame's' captain, Tom Hansen, and Williams might even smile at the young man's hitting philosophy. 
"When you are batting," the Erie, Pa. native says, "you try to remain relaxed in order to con­centrate on the ball. After all, you only have two-fifths of a second from thE!iirie the ball is released by the pticher. 
"Your mental attitude has to be right before everything can begin to fall into place. If you have confidence you can hit, you will." 
Throughout the game's long and glorious past, it has been the wish of every debuting player to hit a 
-
homerun his first at-bat. However, Hansen went that wish one better. 
"I was wearing a uniform three sizes too big, Hansen remembers. "I was scared when Coach Kline told me to grab a bat and pinch­hit." 
"The first pitch was a hanging curve and I hit it pretty good. I was elated and running so fast that I didn't know it had gone over the fence until I was almost to second. At the time , I kind of wondered if it was for for real." 
There was, however, nothing unreal about the homerun or Tom Hansen's athletic abilities and leadership qualities for that matter. A seven-letter star in four sports at Cathedral Prep in Erie, Hansen also captained the four sports-football, basketball, track and baseball-his senior year in addition to leading his squad to the state baseball championship. 
In that championship game, Hansen prevented the winning run from scoring by gunning down a runner at home from right field with the score tied 2-2. In true leader fashion, however, Hansen discounts the play as being the important one in the game. 
"It's always nice to contribute to winning," he continues, "but you have to realize that the play wouldn't have meant a thing if someone hadn't driven our two runs in. 
"In baseball, as in any other 
sport , every play and every player is a factor in the final outcome. As captain here, I have to convince everyone to work as a team. You need nine guys working toghther. 







OBSERVER 

SPORTS 


Captains Corner 
·==============;===================================================================::::;Ups and 
f dow.n s 
Walter O'Malley, of Brooklyn and now Las Angeles Dodger fame, once said that "baseball is too much a business to be a sport and too much a sport to be a business." It seems that when you are winning and there is "joy in Mudville"everything points directly to the joys of sandlot days of the summer sport. However, when the 1 's , 2's and 3's are on the top line and the goose eggs are on the bottom lime of the scoreboard, baseball is very much like business. 
Sweeping a doubleheader at Cincinnatti, the Notre Dame Baseball team feasted on the fact that they had done something almost unheard of in the Spring sport. They wPre enjoying a 3-game winning streak. The fjl<>•tmigp.on was .soon·. to turn to Huddleburger as the team traveled to Bradley University 
Saturday the 13th of April was one of those days that you'd like to forget butcan't get out of your mind. Similar to trip to Bloomington, Indiana and 
a 94-29 debacle, a taste stays in your mouth. After 5 and a half hours of 
travel and 15 minutes of warmup, the Irish were afforded the pleasure of 
playing in one of the best collegiate ballparks in the midwest. Un­
fortunately, that pleasure was shortlived. The trip home that same night 
impressed upon many in the "Gran van" that baseball has its ups-and 
downs like every other business. One was forced to ask himself if it was 
not Friday the 13th. The disaster of that doubleheader was surpassed 
only by the duration of the return trio. 
As the team's concentration shifted to Indianapolis and the Butler Bulldogs, things were looking up. Though the weather was cold, our pitchers fed theBulldogs nothing but heat allowing just five hits in two games to a team that was to become 11-4 at the end of the day. A con­fidentfeeling filled the ball club as we travelled home. 
Homeruns are like needles to balloons A gopher! ball tends to deflate a pitcher's' ego and lower a earn's lofty first game and underhitthe Irish in the second game to sweep,the doubleheader. As in business, statistics are sometimes misleading. 
Baseball however has a unique statistic of its own, especially at higher levels. This years' schedule 1is one that is conducive to dwelinl'( on the present~ and not the past. With only halp of the season over, and with 22 games in the next 16 days one can hardly dwell on anything at all, let alone the past. this unique feature of the baseball program here is only a small scale of what it must be like for professionals, The basketball schedule\ was demanding, as was football, but none can compare with the 
frequency of encounters in baseball. 
There are eight home games withing the next week highlighted by 3 games with fine IllinoisStateteam next weekend,.Hopefully. you willlfind the time to come and see a few of these games. 
"This year, we started off well­winning our first two games. But we played 10 games in lG days. Basketball may be gruelling, but in baseball, there is more mental fatigue." 
Hansen is able to make thir comparison between the wintet and spring sports because, as < sophomore walk-on, he earned a monogram during Digger Phelps' first year at Notre Dame. And despite sitting on the bench his junior and senior campaigns, he has no regrets about playing thP sport here. 
"I feel lucky that I had a chanc to play basketball at Notre Dame, he says. "The last two years wer the toughest because I knew 1 wouldn't play much. 
"I could have quit and con­centrated on baseball but I wanted to stick it out because I like to compete, even if it was only during practice. It's a good feeling to have five guys working together." 
This team-first . attitude of Hansen's also spills over onto the baseball diamond. During the Irish spring trip (3-7) to New Orleans, Hansen, normally an outfielder, was asked to play second base after Pete Schmidt was injured. 
"Whenever Coach needs someone to play the infield," he says,"that's where I'll go. There is a little adjustment at first but afterwards it's not too much of a problem." 
Hansen showed he had no problem commuting between the two position by responding with a .273 batting average and com­mittingbut one error. But again, personal glories mean nothing to him. 
"This squad is the best one in my four years here," he contends. "I would like nothing more than to give Coach a good year because I know how it feels having three seasons under . 500." 
With a 37-game schedule crowded into 32 days, the Irish baseball team wil certainly have to fight mental fatigue in order to achieve their captain's wish. However, if his teammates can match his unselfish confident ·attitude, then 1974 could be an exciting and rewarding year. 
by George Eckes 
N.D.'s Lacrosse Club finished a seven game road trip April 6 dropping a close 5-4 contest with Michigan State University at East Lansing. The Irish had a slim 4-3 lead going into the last quarter after a balanced scoring attack saw Steve Tarnow, Mark Ripko, Phil Volpe, and Joe Meares each pocket one goal apiece. The Spartans came out in the 4th quarter with an agressive offense though, and within two minutes of one anotther had turned the tables on the stickmen, making it 5-4 with 5 minutes to play. 
Hopes of com!ng back were severely thwarted when Coach Rich O'Leary's men were slapped with two penalties thereafter, forcing the Irish to play defensive ball, and thus not allow the offense to muster a strong attack. Goalie Joe Lepley rose to the occasion by making the remainder of his 21 total game saves but time ran out before the Irish could get on the scoreboard. 
It was a bitter disappointment to the team that played an excellent game in the eyes of their coach. "Aside from a slight 4th quarter letdown, the team played an outstanding game. But their spirits are high knowing there are only two road games from here on in." 
In their first home encounter of the season, the stick men dropped a 3-2 decision to the University of Michigan in overtime. 
In a penalty marred, defensive struggle the Irish were held in check the beginning of the game as the Wolverines scored twice in the second quarter to hold a 2-0 half­time lead. But scores from Phil Volpe and Pete Irace in the 3rd and 4th quarter respectively, and the defensive work of Joe Lepley who had 17 saves in goal, sent the game into overtime. 
The men from Ann Arbor scored quickly in the first overtime period and some dramatic saves by Michigan goalie Tim Cotten sent 
N.D. down to defeat, 3-2. 
The stickmen ·.Ree" host Ohio University, the University of Chicago and Cleveland in the annual N.D. Tournament to be played Friday night, Saturday afternoon, and night. Games will be played at Cartier Field. 



Bookstore championship set 
by Bill Delaney Bookstore Basketball Tournament throughout the game, the DUCKS, tonight as a result of their victories led by Joe Cooney and Ron Hein,s CLUB 31 II will meet -the-the Thursday in the semifinals. seven points, defeated a battling 
DUCKS in the finals of the IIEIL'S HOOPS team 21-18. In a game displayii1g tenacious defense and crisp passing, the DUCKS grabbed an early 7-llead, and held IIEIL'S off for the victory. Jim Byrnes and Tom Buffamante's seven points apiece paced the losers, who fought valiantly to the end. 
In .the other contest, Mike Bonifer's shooting -and strong defensive play by Steve Nieha\.is and Steve Sylvester was just enough as CLUB 31 II defeated the HOLY CROSS HOGS 21-19. A game in which defense played a key, the pure shooting of Bonifer, Frank Allocco and Sylvester forced the Hogs to take many bad shots. A late rally by John Cor­nelius and Bedford Bruno proved not enough for the HOGS. 
The finals, to be played tonight at-5:30', will be covered by WSND, the OBSERVER and the SCHOLASTIC. Bleacher seats are provided, and a good time is promised by the caliber of the the two teams competing for the 1974 Bookstore Basketball Cham­pionship.





