
OD The IDslde 
Black Arts Festival ...p2 An Tostal plans ...p7 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Tuesday, March 5, 1974

Vol. VIII, No. 92 
SLC hears energy commission report 

Voluntary conservation is working 
Heath gives resignation as prime minister 
by Patrick Hanifin Staff Reporter 
The University Energy Conservation Committee told the SLC yesterday that voluntary conservation would solve the immediate problem but that more drastic action might be needed in the future. In other action yesterday SLC Chairman Dr. Fred Syborg issued a statement that the LaFortuune Rathskeller would serve as a party center. 
Fr.Flanigan, chairman of the energy committee, reported considerable progress to date in con­servation. "Our voluntary program is going well, though it is by no means complete," Flanigan said, "and we have cut energy use 9 per cent from last February." Flanigan stated that committee was aiming at "moral persuasion" to cut waste rather than ordering mandatory cuts. 
"So far we have sent letters to the Observer and all department chairmen, reminding everyone of the crisis. Working with the people in charge of the facilities, we have removed lightbulbs from some areas of the library and the ACC." Flanigan stated. He explained that one major problem was that newer buildings are over-illumintated. "That was the design style when they were built and the only way to cut back is to physically remove the light bulbs." 
A subcommittee of students is working on plans 
for conservation in the dorms; The hall govern­
ments will be asked to appoint one student in each 
hall to conduct a survey of energy use in the hall, 
suggest ·what can be cut, and help get student 
support. There are no plans to tax appliances or 
require mandatory limits on their use_. But students 
will be encouraged to unplug appbances over 
vacations and to cut down on unnecessary lighting. 
Halls will also be asked to reduce outside, hallway, 
and lavatory lights at night. 
Chief engineer Gantzer of the generator plant 
explained the workings of the present system and 
its problems. "The situation is critical," he said, 
"and there is no point in kidding ourselves." While 

the generator is primarily coal-burning, large amounts of gas and oil are also used. "We have only a thirty day supply of gas guaranteed, and our coal supplier is 19,000 tons behind in his deliveries because of a back-up on the railroads." 
Gantzer explained that in the last twenty years electrical use has risen from 9,000,000 kilowatt hours per year to 53,000,000. When the plant was constructed in 1948 electrical production was a by­product of the steam used for heating. Now the situation is reversed. "So the main problem is cutting down on electrical use, not heating." Gantzer said. 
When questioned about the future he pointed out that the problem would last for several years. "So far we have been able to handle the problem by voluntary cut-backs on wasted energy but it is 
Flanigan: Voluntary energy 
"program is going very well-'' 
possible that the crunch could get much worse." Gantzer also stated that it might be difficult to buy energy from utility companies since they are having problems too. Presently: the university gets one-third of its power from outside sources at in­creasing costs. 
In other business Chairman Syborg, at the request of the SLC issued 'a statement oabout the long-awaited party-center. "The LaFortunEl Rathskeller will be available for hall parties with the approval of Fr~Schlaver regarding scheduling and procedure. Priority will be given to those nine halls that do not have party facilities of their own," said Syborg. 
The SLC action followed successful experimental parties testing the feasibility of the location. The SLC encourages hall officers who do not havespropoer party facilities to request the use of the Rathskeller. So far a fifty dollar fee has been charged for its use, but, according to Fr. Schlaver this may soon be dropped or changed to a deposit. 
The Rules and regulations subcommittee is currently looking for new members for the university judicial and appeals boards. They are also requesting current members to reapply for next year. The judicial/ txwtr_d consist of 3 students and 3faculty and aadministrators while the appeals board consists of one representative from each group. Members are drawn as needed from the pool of candidates approved by the SLC in May. 
The planning and policy commiltee is working on a system of polling student opinion on parietals and other issues. They are working with the sociology department on this. Fr. Shilts reported that his office is continuing the housing poll of off-campus students by phone. "We were pleased by the results of the Observer poll," he stated, ''with 110 out of 400 houses replying and we want to finish the job." 
T}le newly elected student representatives were 
introduced to the committee, as were the newsly 
elected SBP Pat McLauglin and SBVP Frank 
Flanigan. The new representatives will take office 
in May. 
by Joseph W. Grigg 
LONDON <UPI)-Prime Minister Edward Heath resigned Monday after nearly four years at the head of a Conservative party government and Queen Elizabeth named Labor party laader Harold Wilson to succeed him. 
Wilson at once called on Britons to rally around his government as "one people" after the bitter election contest. "We've got a job to do." said a serious-faced Wilson, standing on the steps ; of the 

,. prime minister's No. 10 Downing St. office after the queen named him to head a government. "We can only do that job as one people and I'm going right in to do that job now." His wife Mary stood beside him. She ac­companied her husband to Buckingham Palace, but waited downstairs during his 60-minute audience with the queen. Wilson planned to forming a minority Labor party government without a coalition or alliance with any other party. Labor party treasurer James Callaghan said Wison will na~ his key ministers Tuesday and also see heads of the 10 million­member Trades Union Congress and the Con­federation of British Industry which represents about 12,000 industrial firms. His first priority task, Labor party officials said, was to try to end the crippling national strike by 269,000 coal miners, now in its fourth week. He will also attempt to get the nation back on a five-day work week, they said. It has been on a limping three-day week since December 31 to save fuel. The changeover from the Conservatives to Labor 

Wilson appointed to the post 
ended for the time being at least a political crisis ,steii\ming from the failure of any party to win an overall majority in Thursday's general election. It took place smoothly in a little more than an hour at Buckingham Palace. 
Heath's hopes of remaining in power were dashed after the Liberal party rejectd an offer to join in a . Conservative-Liberal coalition government. A short time later, Heath stepped into his car outside his No. 10 Downing St. office and drove through a freezing London night to the palace to hand his resignation to the queen. He spent 42 minutes with her. 
Then Wilson, accompanied by his wife Mary, drove to the palace froni his home near the House of Commons and accepted the queen's offer of the premiership. 
The last constitutional "advice" Heatth gave the queen as prime minister was that she should name Wilson his successor. 
Wilson, the victor, smiled happily. 
1 

Heath, the man who lost the election he had called in hope of winning a sweeeping new popular mandate, managed only a wan smile. 
The announcement of Heath's resignation was made by his office at the very moment he stepped into his car to drive to the palace. 
"The prime minister has sought an audience of the Queen in order to tender the resignation of his government," the announcement said. . 
The Liberals rejected Heath's plea for a coalition on grounds it was "not in the national interest" after Heath turned down a Liberal proposal for a national unity government that would include Labor. 
'. 
The meeting between Elizabeth and Heath took place in the so-called 1844 room, a handsomely appointed apartment that was heated by a small fire, underscoring Britain's energy crisis and 
1 crippling coal miner's strike. 
Heath's resignation came after the Conservatives failed to gain enough seats in parliament ic Thur­sday's general elections to remain in power. 'I1le 
. Conservatives won the popular vote, but the Laborites won more seats in the House of Commoua, though they also failed to win a majority. 
The election had been prompted by Heath's economic policies, rising inflation and a crippling nationwide coalminers strike. British workers were placed on a three-day work week to conserve energy. 
Queen Elizabeth earlier in the day had canceled her return to Australia as planned. She flew home from a state visit the day after the elections because the sovereign must be. present to accept the resignatign of the prime minister. 
Heath before entering\hisfunousine for the trip to the palace was greeted by shouts of "Heath out! Heath out!" from a crowd outside 10 Downing St., the official residence of Britain's prime ministers. 
Only a few scattered onlookers! saw Heath arrive at the palace. 
Palace officials said the (llJeen stood waiting to receive Heath. Mter shaldng bands with him, she sat in a high backed, thro~e chair. Smaller chairs were place there for H~th and court of­ficials. 
Wilson met earlier at the House of eo.mOa. with his shadow cabinet-moat of them the mea IDd women who will be the. members of bia DeW 
, government. 



I 
i 
r 
•• ,J 
1. the observer Tuesday, March 5, 1974 
warld 


briefs 

SAN FRANCISCO, Cal. UPI -Volunteers passed out _free food again as the family of Patricia Hearst waited for a comuruque from her kidnappers who have been silent for twelve days: 
WASHINGTON, D.C: UPI-Television viewers m small to~ns across the country got a break from the Supreme Court, which ruled on Monday that cable TV operators didn't have to pay 
copyright fees. . 
NEW YORK, N.Y. UPI -Testimony began on the _mfluence­peddling trial of former Nixon cabinet members John Mitchell and Maurice Stans today. 
an campus taday· 
11:00 am, lecture, "racism, capitalism, socialism:which way black?" by dr. claude lightfoot, room 116, O'shaughnessy hall, also at 1:10 pm, 120 o'shaugnessey. 
1:15 pm, lecture,"bring back democracy; movement for free 

philipines," by charley avila, religion and world class, library lounge. ·  injustice  
2:00pm, tennis, n.d.tennis team vs. ball state,  ace.  
2:45 pm, film, kenneth clark "falacies of hope," cce aud.  civilization series,  film 12:  
4:00  pm,  lecture,  "recent  examples  of  child  behavior  

modification," by dr. donald m. baer, engineering aud. 4:00pm-lecture, afrotc lecture series, library aud. 
4:30 pm, seminar, "inter-relationships between olfactory and reproductive systems in female rats," by dr. john curry I I I, galvin life science aud. 
7:00 & 9:00pm-film, "women in love," engineericg a1.1d., free. 
7:30pm, lecture, "financing business growth: how to become a millionaire," by thomas orsi, carroll hall. 
7:30 pm, lecture, "fundamentals of live insurance," by dr. charles reddy, arts and letters student advisory council, 202 architecture bldg., free. 
8:00pm, boxing, bengal bouts, ace. 
8:00 pm, talk, news of the taize community and the world council of youth," by mildrede and joe, bulla shed. 
8:15pm, recital, blanche lewis, contralto, library aud., free. 
8:30 pm, lecture, "unamuno: contemporary spanish existen­tialism," by dr. fleck, stapleton lounge, lemans. 
all items for on campus today must be in by 3 pm on the preceeding day. 
Both Tubes 10 oz. 

only $1 19 
4 oz. Tube or 
7 oz. Lotion 
Regularly $1 45 each No"'! only $1 29 each 

ON SALE NOW! AT THE BOOKSTORE 

;/I 
24 oz. Bottle 
Regularly $1 79 Now $1 27 
Black view of social change is Black Art Festival theme 
by John DeCoursey Staff Reporter 
Plans for the Black Arts Festival, which will be held from March 27 to March 31, are almost complete. The festival is being sponsored by a coalition of various groups on campus including the New Frontier Scholastic Society, Ujama, Black Graduate Students Union, Black American Law Students Association (BALSA), and the Minority Social Com­mission. The plans for the event have been organized by a com­mittee headed by Don Patton. 
The theme of the festival is "Black Perspectives in Tran­sition." The festival will stress the tools and ideas of bringing about social change, and black people's perspectives of bringing about change. Also, the change in goals of black society will be em­phasized. 
The events scheduled for the festival, as of now, are: 
Wednesday, March 27: A forum for discussing the theme of the festival will be held in the Am­phitheatre of LaFortune at 7:00 P.M. 
Thursday, March 28: A speaker, as of yet unannounced, in the Library Auditorium at 8:00 P.M. 
Saturday, March 30: The Kuumba Workshop, a professional guild from Chicago. They will perform a ritual which included mime and poetry set to African Jazz Music. The workshop will also have a rap session on the theme of the weekend and will be in the Libarary Auditorium from 
Free TV time 





tonite atSMC 
The ND-SMC Television Laboratory will sponsor a free access time experiment tonight at 
7:30. Any interested student will be given five minutes of free television tive to do whatever he wishes. The Laboratory is located on the third floor of Moreau Hall. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
3:00 to 5:00P.M. 
An art display of sketches and oil paintings by Don Turner, an In­structor in Mro-American Studies at Indiana State University, will be shown in the Fiesta Lounge in LaFortune, from 12:00 to 4:30P.M. Saturday evening, a Jazz concert featuring Gary Bartz of New York, and his group, the NTU Troop, will be held in Stepan Center at 8:30 P.M. 
Sunday, March 31: A speaker, as of yet unannounced, will be in the Library Auditorium at 2:00P.M. In the evening there will be a production entitled "Journey into Blackness," performed by "Voices Incorporated," a black musical theatrical group from New York Cit>.'. This production will portray the history of the black man from the beginning of the slave trade until the present, through drama, dance and music. It will be held in O'Laughlin 
Auditorium at 7:30. 
The admission price of the Gary Bartz Concert and the "Voices Incorporated" production will be $2.00 for students. The "Voices Incorporated" production will be $3.00 for general admission, and $1.00 for children under 12. Everything else is free, but organizers say that donations to the Kuumba Workshop will be appreciated. 



TODAY 
Green Beer 

25ct 
12 noon -11 p.m. 
Since you won't be here for St. Patrick's Day We've decided to celebrate early! 
ALL DAY 

j 

--~---­
-------------------------~--~~---~-------­

I've been looking around for a place to play the piano, but so far I haven't had any luck. Do you know where they have any pianos around here? 
They have several pianos over in O'Shaughnessy right across from the music office. However, it does cost money. They are rented for $10 a semester and are pro-rated. In other words, it costs $5 for a half-semester. 
Every time I go to the A.C.C. I notice a small one-Door brick building across from the Aerospace Building. No one seems to know what it is. Do you know? 
We found out that il is a pumping station. Inside there is a deep well which supplies water to the campus. Besides this one, there are two others. 
1 appreciate t~e fact that you printed which states have gas rationing, but can you tell me which states have the maximum speed limit? 
As of now, all 50 states have a speed limit of 55 m.p.h. 
Who do I contact to find bus transportation to Chicago? 
Call Dave Boyer at 272-1807 for Greyhound bus service. 
Note: the Ombudsman Service will close its operations on Thur­sday at five o'clock. 
For An Tostal 
Bookstore Iron-man B-Ball Tournament scheduled 
by Bob Quak_enbush Staff Reporter 
Basketball fever is once again taking its fair weather hold upon the campus and the third annual Bookstore Basketball Tourney is on,affectionatelyknown as the Iron Man Tournament. The B. B. T. has been a part of the An Tostal celebration of spring for the past two years. Last year's tourney followers saw a field of over one hundred five-man teams whittled down to one, 'l.'om Clements and Mike Bonifer's 31 Club from Sorin Hall, in Frivolous Friday's title game. 
Vince Meconi, a Morrissey Hall junior, will organize the tourney this year and released some of the initial plans last Wednesday night after the regular An Tostal meeting in Fiesta Lounge. 
Registration for the B. B. T. is tentatively scheduled from March 25 through April 2, with April 5 the target date for the tournament's first round. One loss spells elimination and only two teams will reach the finals on April 19 unscathed. 
Most of the ground rules will be the same as last year. For example, no more than one varsity or former varsity basketball player will be allowed on a team, 21 baskets wins (unless it's close then you must win by two), and it is not necessary for all five members of a team to be residents of the same hall. 
Meconi has appealed for help in running the tournament. Anyone interested in being a referee, scorekeeper, or just plain general assistant is requested to contact him in his room in Morrissey Hall. 
NOW RENTING 
c one and two bedroom furnished apartments
A 
Featuring:

M 
+ SWIMMING POOL p + 
COMMUNITY BUILDING 
+ 2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM
u APARTMENTS 
s 
+ 
AIR CONDITIONING 

+ 
DISHWASHER 

+ 
RANGE 



v 
+ 
REFRIGERATOR 


+ GARBAGE DISPOSAL I + 
TENNIS COURT 

E 
+ LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM 
CAMPUS! 


"APARTMENTS WITH
w 

THE STUDENT IN MIND 
II 

call 232-5853 for rental information or visit crestwood management company 3012 east Pdison road, south bend· 
Tuesday, March 5, 1974 the observer 
Located in administration building 


New lost and found office 
by Bob Quakenbush Staff Reporter 

Thanks to the cooperative effort of the Dean of Students Office, the Ombudsman, and the B-P Moosehunters, lost items may be located in the newly established Lost and Found Office, in Room 150 of the AdministratioQ Building. 
"We haveestablisheda lost and found office in every building on com pus except the residence halls, and we're working on that," reports "Dangerous Dan" Dun­cJ:-eon, president of the Moosehunters. "Then we have weekly pick-ups to gather all the lost and found items and bring them to our central office in the Adminstration Building," he conticued. 
Duncheon described the basic procedure in a recent interview. It is as follows : when an item is found, it should be turned in to the nearest building's lost and found office where it will be retained for a week. If at the end of the week it is still unclaimed, it is transferred to the Adminstration Building's Room 150 ( behind the Traffic Violations Bureau). All items are tagged with the following in­formation: date found, and building, room, or general location found. Tentatively, if an item is still unclaimed five weeks after it was found, it will become the property of the Lost and Found Office. 
"We are considering having an 

auction of everything we have left 
at the end of the year," said 
Duncheon. 
The system just began three 

weeks ago, and already the Lost 
and Found Office has hundreds of 
articles on its shelves. These 
range from watches, gloves, hats, 
and umbrellas to books, notebooks, 
and sets of keys. Two of the more unusual items are one and a half pairs of skates and a $25 war bond dated March, 1944. 
If an item has a name or laundry number inscribed on it every effort is made to inform the owner of its recovery. When there is no identification whatsoever, "we just wait till the owner shows up and describes what he lost, when he lost it, and where he thinks he lost it," said Dunchcon. 
The Moosehunters organization comprises about 60 members, 
'approximately 40 of which are volunteering a few hours each week to make the lost and found system a succeess. 
Duncheon noted, "We usually make our pick-ups with shopping carts, so if you see someone pushing one around campus, you'll know the Lost and Found Office is doing its job." 
The office is open Monday through Friday during the hours from 10-12 a.m., 1-~p.m., and 7-9 
_I!_.m. 
If you compare, you'll select ltna... If you don't compare, don't say we didn't warn you! 
JIM CAMPBELL  
120 W.  LaSalle Street  
Suite 1001  
South Bend, _Indiana 233-8207 The .lEtna College Plan ...  IaLIFE&CASUALTY 

Life Insurance for students 
A::tna Life Insurance Company, Hartford, Connecticut 
Hairstyling ... with style 
+Award Winning Stylists +Unique Atmosphere 
+ Roffler Styling and Products 

KEN'S DEN 
First· Floor, 100 Center Mishawaka, Indiana Appointments Prefered, 255-6500 
GOOD NEWS! 

We're open Tuesday 
and Thursday Nights 


'ti II Eight! 
Your store in style, price and terms (ask about our terms) 



~ -~ ~ 


THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti . Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 

Jerry Lutkus Dan Barrett Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor 
grade Universities which accepted NCAA Bound him. I trust that you are warning
NEWS: 283-1715 
John Kloos the class of '78. One of theEDITORIALS: 283-8661 Advertising Manager strongest features of ND has beenBUSINESS: 283-7471 

its campus life -we had it in the Tuesday, March 5, 1974'' An open letter to Coach Phelps: 
thirties and you have been able to preserve it despite trends to the contrary. Now it is being un­Congratulations to you and the dermined not by students norteam on a fantastic year. From 6­social trends byt by the veru20 to~ in three years is a great organization that has worked so



Concerted Effort 
tribute to the basketball program 
Last night's benefit concert was a good example of what people can do when they are organized around a cause. The concert grossed in the area of $45,000, 85 per cent of which goes to the benefit. Most of the performers ·were promised expense money, but many of them have turned it down. 
All of the cash will go for a project being initiated by the National Coor­dinating Committee for Justice Under Law. The project is a job-training program that will serve as an alternative to prison in the Washington D.C. area. In an era that has featured prison riots, prison strikes and recidivist rate (the number of criminals who continue to break the law) that approaches 40 per 
preciation should go to the organizers and 
cent,  some  alternative  must  be  
suggested.  
Nonetheless,  a  real  salute  of  ap­ 

performers in the concert. No one came here to make a buck, everyone doingtheir job for nothing Some of the real marvels are the man whQ produced the 
hard to develop and preserve it.
here at Notre Dame. 

How can you let this happen? Wouldn't it be better to take The team is now headed to the drastic measures toward saving 
NCAA tourney and we would like to the tradition rather than toward who who flew in from the West Coast ask a few questions about the trip. destroying it? without pay. His experience is in rt:cord To quote you, "I'll never be able to producing, having never produced a thank our seniors enough." If this 
is true; then why not show them a We are regUlar readers of the
concert before. A booking agent from 
real turn of gratitude and take the 1 Observer and, therefore, are
Indianapolis worked the state during the 
four of them plus the other two non-somewhat up-to.<Jate · onperformance. And finally, the Nitty travelers to the finals in Green-deve.lopments. Perhaps we areGritty Dirt Band, besides playing for sboro? To quote you again, "They · rece1v1':lg a slanted view of what ~s gratis, offered to pay the overtime costs have been the backbone." How happemng. But-slanted or not It 
to the Convo should the show run over. 
can you expect to win the whole 'appears. to me that there are thing with your "backbone" sitting Ialte!'Jlatives. When the. present
(After midnight, it costs $500 a half hour 
Sincerely,


Hey, Digger! 
in South Bend while secretaries
to use the Convo for shows and concerts 
and wives take their seats on the
that run overtime.) 
plane to Greensboro? We're sure that they will see as much action as would the prep squad. Money
. All in all, it was a laudable effort and 
cannot be an excuse. Any
all those people involved with it should be 
University that can send 100
praised. 
football players to New Orleans can surely afford to send 18 basketball players to Greensboro. 
While on the subject of concerts, it Somehow, it seems that you owe a 
little more to the players,
would be a sin to talk of concerts and not 
especially the ones who suffered
speak of Rich Donovan. Though Donovan 
through a 6-20 season, than you
did not have a large part in landing the 
owe to secretaries and the wives of 
concert, he worked strenuously to make "higher-ups".this show come off. His work in the past couple years as head of concerts has been 
Take them all to Greensboro,
excellent. In this show and countless 
Digger. They all deserve it. And if
others, Donovan has done a great job. the Administration says "no", then maybe its time to stand up and -Jerry Lutkus )Xpend some of your vociferousness to those in the Golden Dome. Certainly you have had plenty of practice with the referees. 
What's the story, coach? It's realized that you probably have enough headaches today after being upended by the Dayton Flyers last night, but if the letter on the right hand portion of this page is accurate, then there is some explaining to do. 
Is it true, as the letter ·asserts, that four seniors on the team and ·two non­traveling members will not be allowed to 
' accompany the team to Greensboro should the Irish make it there? 
The story as it is heard here is that the 
· university has chartered a smaller plane for the trip to conserve on fuel. Included on the flight list, however, are Digger's secretary and her husband, according to 
Cheeta Fahrenbach '74 Dale M. Planieka '75 

sources around the campus. Coach, are Sandy Jerstad '75 these reports accurate? Will your Andy Bury ,76 secretaries fly while your senior mem­bers are given expense money and told to find their own way to Greensboro or even to, better yet, watch it on TV? OC:NotND 
As the letter says, "Take them all to 
Dear Editor:

Greensboro." A body that leaves its 
"backbone" at home will have a hard 
The current houalq shortage at
time standing tall. Are we to naive when 
Notre Dame is giviq me great
we expect a coach who has brought a concern. As you may recall we 'team from a 6-20 record to the NCAA's to have a son, Gerry, who is a have the power to see that his senior sophomore and aa luck would have players can make the trip with the team? it he is in danger of beiDa forced off 
campus.

Come on, what's the story, coach? 
Frankly, if I ever had an inkling that this would happen to him I would have convinced him to go to
--Jerry Lutkus 
any one of a number of other too 
1 Jumors anq Sophs s1gned up ' at N~ they received a moral comm1ttn_1ent that they woul~ have the benefit of ND campus life for 
.!our ye:rs. How can this be Ignored· 
I know the arguments which have been prseented in favor of pushing students off campus.1None of them impresses me. The addition of women has been a great improvement to an already successful University. You cannot permit this decision to being about the destruction of an important part of the University life. If error were made in numbers admitted -· and there were in '72 -you shold find other ways of correcting them. 
A simple method would be to cut back admissions in '74. Another alternative would be permissible overcrowding. Also, aren't there some empty rooms ar the campus seminaries --perhaps some rearranging could make a few floors or a building available. Finally, when ar~ Ute adult leaders of ND and St. Mary'&·going to act as adults and combine·. 
This letter may be a little emotional. It is meant to be. Did you ever live in a furnished room? I did nd I didn't send my son to Notre Dame with that in mind. Our University has a committment to her students, her Alumni and hers· supporters We don't expect her ·to let us down. 
Respectfully yours, 
John J. Martin Class of '40 

d_DDIWIIbury 
~----------------~ 

Night Editor: J R Baker Ass't Night Editors: Tim O'Reiley, Bill Murphy Copy Editor: Greg Day Editors: Gary Allietta, Jim RosinI Pinch Hitter for Butch Ward: Camarry Typists: Barb Norcross, Camille Arrieh, Jeff McPherson, Tom Modglin Compugraphic: Joe Abell Sports: Peggy Lawlor, Greg 


, Corgan0 "~ Nigtlt Controller: Jotiri Flantllgan Pictures!"" Albert O'~fbnloO 

;Tuesday, March 5, 1974 the observer 
5 l 
~ 
Planes and Amtrak booked up ~ 

Highway authorities say gas no prOblem 

by Jack D'Aurora to sell their remaining gas. 
Staff ·Reporter Indiana-No problem buying gas 
during the week. Arco stations are 

Students driving home for spring open during the 'weekend. break shouldn't be overly con­Ohio -Gas is being sold 24 hours cerned about the gas shortage, . a day, except from 9:00 pm according to various state Saturday till midnight Sunday. highway authorities. The Only two Texaco stations are situation is as follows: rationing, allotting 10 gallons of 
Illinois -No gas is sold on gas per customer. Sunday. Monday through New York -Gas is being Saturday, gas stations open at 9:30 rationed on the odd-even license 
and remain open until they sell plate system. However, this does their daily allotment. If they have not apply to drivers who purchase not sold their quota by 3: 30 they gas 100 miles from their point of close until 7: 30 when they re-open entry on the tollway. 
Campus briefs. • • 
ka will be speaker at Rockne Mass 
Coach Ara Parseghian of the No. 1Notre Dame football team will be• the speaker at the 42nd annual Knute Rockne Memorial Mass. and Breakfast on the campus March 31. The traditional event-­honors the former Notre Dame football coach who died in a Kansas plane crash on March 31, 1931. 
Parseghian joins a long list of former Rockne associates or players who have been speakers at the annual event. He will be in­troduced by Charles Lennon, president of the Notre Dame Club . of St. Joseph Valley sponsors of the memorial program. 
A Mass celebrated by Rev. 
Robert Griffin, C.S.C. in Keenan­
Standford Chapel at 8:30 a.m. I 
precedes the breakfast in the 
North Dining Hall. The placement : 
of wreaths on the graves of Rockne 
and other Notre Dame coaches in 
South Bends's Highland Cemetry 
concludes the ceremony. 
Reservations for the breakfast 
are presently being accepted by 
the Notre Dame Alumni Office. 
D. Rockefeller 
slated to talk 
David Rockefeller, Chairman of the Board of Dir-ectors of Chase 
Manhattan and perhaps America's 1 most influential businessman, will . participate in the Executive Lecture Series of the Graduate School of Business at the University of Notre Dame. 
Rockefeller will deliver a lecture titled "trade with the East" at 3:00 
p.m. on Thursday, March 7 at the Memorial Library Auditorium. It is open to the public. 
Chase Manhattan Bank was the first bank to have branches in both Moscow and in Communist China. It is the leader in East-West trade among bankers largely because of the personal leadership of Rockefeller. In the past year he has met with Eastern European leaders, Chou En-Lai, and Alexi Kosygin. 
Rockefeller has long been a leader in promoting in­ternationalism. He is currently Chairman of the influential Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) and a Trustee of the Council of the Americas. 
II --e·'"CaD 'SCene
~J.J •u. ••• "union on March 14 will hear 
· ~rts of record earnirigs arid• Forum. 
inCome for 1973. Tickets for the 6 The Oregon Shakespearean 
Dr. Robert M. Barry, Professgr p.ni·. dinner· in the North Dining Festival maintains y~ar-round ofphilOMOphy ~t Loyola Universityr: Hall"are available in the Main­operations in the little mountain Chica~'?· wiU-speak on ''Amt!rlc~ t~nance Building headquarterfl· of valley toWn _ of Ashland. 
. ·----~ 
Philosophy and the Incarnational Model" at Saint Mary's College Wednesday, March 6, 1974, at 7:30 
p.m. in Carrolr }Jail. 
In his lecture, Dr. Barry will attempt to "set a full and proper context for an evaluation of the pervasive and crucial role of religion throughout ·American culture." He believes that the interpretive model for religion is an "incarnational model rather than a creative, ratilnalisHc model," and will emphasize the God of the incarnation 
-Christ found in history -rather than the God of the pre-Christians. 
A native of New YoJ;"k, Dr. Barry holds a bachelor's degree from Iona College, New Rochelle, New York, and a masters degree and Ph.D. from Fordham University, New York. He taught.at Rider College, Trenton, New Jersey, and chaired the . department of sociology at the College of St. Scholastica, Duluth, Minnesota, before joining the faculty at Loyola in 1963. 
Wednesday's lecture, part of the continuing , American Scene cultural series, is open to the public without charge. 



Air society will assist retarded 

Air Force R dets at the University o Notre Dame are being joined y fellow Arnold Air Society members at several midwestern campuses hi the support of Little Angels' Home for Mentally Retarded Children in Clyde, Ohio. The Notre Dame headquartered society and Angel Flight members at area schools are co-sponsors of the special service project. 
Squadrons at the various school s are coming forward with money­making projects to support the home for severely retarded children ranging in age from two years to mid-teens. Groceries and bedding have been delivered to the school and a sum of money is being amassed to purchase a major appliance in the future. 
Joining Notre Dame in the project are units at Bowling Green, Butler, University of Detroit, Indiana, Michigan State, Michigan and Purdue. Butler University in Indianapolis is headquarters for the Angel Flight group. 
Credit Union 


plans dinner 

Guests at the 32nd annual dinner meeting of Notre Dame's Credit 
Though not generally enforced, two or three gallons of gas. vations are still being taken for . There is reportedly no price New Orleans and Texas. Trains to
travellers are not to receive gas 

unless their gas tank is less than 1 gouging along these to~~ays, a~d, Florida are booked till April, and 
baH full. No gas is sold from 9:00 pm Saturday to midnight Sunday in New York. 
Whether or not a · stranded motorist is to be supplied with enough gas to get off the tollway is up to the individual gas station. 
Pennsylvania • Gas is being rationed on the odd-even system, with 10 gallons per customer. No gas is sold between 9:00 pm Saturday and midnight Sunday. Stranded cars will be supplied with 
the union. 
Membership in the credit group has increased 16 per cent to 5,176, according to the annual report. Assets are listed at $5,831,863, an increase of 14 per cent, and loans tQ members during 1973 totaled $4,597,619, an increase of more than 34 per cent. _ 
Member shares are up 15 per cept to $5,620,362; income is up 36 per cent to $497,097, and. earnings are up 38 percent to $349,892. 
The annual report will also in­dicate a 25 per cent increase in dividends declared to $278,755, as well as a 30 per cent in expenses for a total of $147,205. 
Officers of the credit union during the record year were James 
P. Danehy, president; Lawrence 
F. Stauder and Daniel J .. Osberger, vice-presidents; Richard Thomp­son, secretary, and Mrs. Ruth E. Kelly, treasurer-manager. 
ND grad Riehle 


joins Oregon Shakespeare Co. 

Notre Dame graduate Richard Riehle has joined the acting company of the Oregon 
Shakespearean  Festival,  in  
Ashland,  Oregon.  It  will  be  
Riehle's  third  season  with  the  
company.  

His roles for the festival Stage II spring theatre season include Tom in The time of Your Life, Senex in A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum, and Panthin and Outlaw in Two Gentlemen of Verona. For the summer season he will add Waiting for Godot's Pozzo to his repertory. 
This past fall, Riehle worked as an actor-teacher with the Festival's School-Visit Project. 
He has delighted previous Festival audiences with his por­trayals of Gremio in The Taming 
. of the Shrew, Agamemnon in Trollus and Cressida, and Pistol in both Henry iv Part 2 and Henry V. Riehle received his BA from Notre Dame and his MFA in theatre from 
' the University of Minnesota. He 
1 received a dramatic arts diploma from the Academy of Dramatic Art and studies at the University of Innsbruck. He has been a finalist for the McKnight Fellowship and a finalist for TCG (Theatre Com­munications Group). 
. . Festival Stage II, the Oregon Shakespearean Festival's spring theatre season, opens March 8th in Ashland. Four plays will run in the repertory in the Festival's indoor theatre: Henrik Ibsen's Hedda Gabler, William Saroyan's The Time of Your Life, Shakespeare's TwoGentlemenofVerona, and the Broadway musical A Fl,Ulny Thing Happened on the Way to the according to authortties, -there one train runs to Washington D.C. should be enough gas when withoUt reservations. . students return to sChool March 18. The only real cutback in flights 
All of the above. states enforce a out of Chicago to major cities are 55 'm.p-.h. speed limit and report those to New York. United Airlines that traffic varies from a normal to reports that whereas, formerly, lighter flow. they and two other airlines sup­
Students driving the I-75 to plied hourly flights to New York, Florida ·should encounter no the three airlines now alternate, problems purchasing gas until' supplying only one flight per hour. they hit Florida, where the odd­Outside of :one flight to Los even distribution system is in Angeles, United has no other effect in various parts of the state. cutbacks. 
Speed limits on the I-75 are as TWA and Eastern report no follows: Kentucky -55 lm.p.h,, cutbacks in their schedules. In Tennessee -voluntary 50 m.p.h., faet·TWA claims they are adding · Georgia -no information, and flights. ­Florida -55 m.p.h. Traffic is Apparently, the only major reportedly light on the I-75. problem confronting students 
Trains are well booked up. flying home is that of the usual 
According to Amtrak, there are competition for tickets and that of 
few openings on trains to New vacationers. 
York and Los Angeles. Reser-


Free lancer· Nelson named as designer 
Donald J. Nelson has been ap-iConsultants and Thompson Art pointed as a designer with the · both of South Bend. Department of Printing and Publications at Notre Dame an­nounced Ronald R. Parent, department director. 
A free lance and part-time 
associate in the department during 
the last year when the Notre Dame 
Magazine and other University 
publications received several 
national awards, Nelson will 
supervise graphic designs for the 
magazine, catalogues, brochures 
and other publications edited at 
Notre Dame 
Nelson is a native of Sounth Bend 
and attended the Herron School of 
Art at Indiana University in In­
dianapolis where he received the 
master of fine arts degree in visual 
communications He was 

previously employed in production Donald Nelson named designer for 
and design capacities with Gunn-_Department of Printing and 
Hackbarth Industrial Design Publications. 
SHARE walk-in, phone service now in operation. 
by Mary Janca Staff Reporter 
Student Help and Resource Endeavor <SHARE), a walk-in and phone service run by ND and SMC volunteers, opened Sunday night in the basement of Holy Cross Hall, StMary's. 
According to its co-ordinator Patti Kampsen, SHARE's purpose is two-fold. First, it provides in­formation on such questions as crafts, car maintainance and budgeting, as well as some career, medical and drug problems. Also, she said, "If a person has a problem and doesn't want to or doesn't think it big enough to be taken to the counseling center he can take it to SHARE." 
Twenty-seven volunteers from ND and SMC comprise the staff, noted Kampsen. All have un­dergone a training session on relations and personal dynamics, sex, some medical problems, and listened to a lecture on drugs and a talk by a member of Campus Ministry. 

The SHARE center is open from 8 p.m. to 12 midnight Sunday through Thursday, and from 12 midnight until 2 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays. ~­
SHARE is independent of student government and is associated with, but also in­dependent of, the Counseling Center, stated Kampsen. 

SHARE originated, she ex­plaiDed,_ out of a conversation between herself and other students, who then sent out questionnaires "to assess the needs on campus," to a random sample of 25 per cent of each class. Subjects on the questionnaire inclujed quizzing students on general information which the center could provide, and also if students saw the need for such a center. After t~bulating the results, Kampsen said, she and a few others decided to open a center. 
Cheerleading 
... 



tryouts to start Wednesday nite 
There will be a melting Wed­nesday night at 6 p.m. in the La Fortune lobby for all students interested in trying out for the cheerleading squad or for the leprechaun mascot. 
All St. Mary's and Notre Dame students are invited to the meeting, which will concern the tcriteria used for judging can­
"didates, dates of the. tryouts, and t,be judges. There are ten positions, five girls and five guys, open on next year's squad. 'lbe leprechaun position is also open. 'I"fYouts are not restricted by class. 
'lbe meeting is being held before spring break so candidates can get ·in shape and work on sldlla over ·the vacation. 

the observer -Tuesday, March 5, 1974
6 
Fanning ready for NCAA finals 

by Hal Munger 

Mike Fanning, the big defensive tackle on the national champion Fighting Irish football squad took four steps towards achieving national championship status in a second sport. By extending this year's record to 17-o, last weekend in Cincinatti, the 260-pounder captured first place in the National Eastern Wrestling Regionals and earned himself a spot in the NCAA finals at Iowa State University March 14 through 16. 
The road to the regional championship included 10 pins, two shutouts, two forfeits, and three victories by decision for Fanning. It was the second time Mike won the region; he won it as a freshman but almost did not repeat this year. 
He was sick in the infirmary with influenza two days last ~k, and the drain it put on him caused him to be almost pinned by Clarion's 380 pounder. That near-loss followed his one pin of the weekend and it preceded two victories by decision. His most recent conquests put him 42.0-1 in two 
Heavyweight Mike Fanning was the only one of coach Fred Pechek's
years of competition. 
wrestlers to make it past the regionals to the national finals on the 14th. 
Six other Irish wrestlers took advance to the nationals. AI Rocek tying him for the all-time Notre part in the regionals but none will won the fiftieth match of his career Dame career victory record. He 
Hogs capture second straight 

(continued from page B) 

When Grace did manage to cut the margin to 3 points at 40-37 late in the game, Holy Cross bagged 3 straight baskets and the game was out of reach for all practical purposes. . 
Sweeney's 16, Mitchell's 13 and Bruno's 10 points accounted for the bulk of the Hog scoring while Frank and Rich Allocco netted 12 apiece for Grace. 
Both captains agreed that the deciding factor in the game was rebounding. Kulic noted that "In the first game, we controlled the boards and won,thistime they just took it to us. We didn't get more than 1 shot at a time in the second half." Sweeney added that "John Cornelius did a super job rebounding. In one stretch during the last quarter he snagged 6 rebounds in a row." 
"Bill Mitchell also did an un­believable job filling in for Baronowski. But without a doubt we owe the win to our fans. 
Yelling, screaming, they were like a sixth man, especially in the final period." 
The IH Basketball Cham­pionship ended with theb Hog fans 

Irish battle Huskies 
(continued from page B) 
scoring mark (nine goals and 36 points), will pair with freshman Jack Brownschidle. Bill Nyrop, likewise an All-American last season, will match with frosh Paul Clarke, and Roger Bourque and Les Larson will make up the third duo. 
Mark Kronholm, whose play was instrumental in gaining Notre Dame's first win ever at Madison last Saturday night, will again be goal for both games for Notre Dame ' 
Both games can be heard over either WNDU (1490) with faceoffs ' at 6:30 South Bend time. 
shouting "_We're number 1" and no 
one can disagree. 
Ms. Lucarelli: 1 medium slice Dainty Maid cake ... 200 calories 1 bite of cookie ... ? Have a sinfully fattening birthday. 
Love, 
Lola, Emerald, Esmerelda, Mildred, Pro, lk, Dink, Buela, PA, Klutch and Thelma 
now holds the mark together with Ken Ryan who graduated in 1972. 
It was the last match for the 190 pound senior co-captain as was it the last action for senior 158 pounder Rich Gilloon, the other co­captain. Steve Moylan also wrestled his last match in a Notre Dame uniform at 134 pOunds. 
John Dowd earned a pin but was beaten in the next match to the man who lost to the eventual champion. Freshman Dan Hef­fernan was beaten by a single point in his first match. Fritz Bruening was defeated in his first match at 150 pounds and Dave Boyer, who has enjoyed a successful year at 142 was not able to compete because of a leg injury. These last four wrestlers will return to highlight what could be another fine wrestling squad next year. 

Rookie coach Fred Pechek has done an outstanding job this year and is already beginning preparations for a beefed-up schedule next season. 
For Mike Fanning, though, it's good luck in the nationals! 
ACAPULCO 
final meeting 7 p.m. Wednesday Fiesta Lounge 
Plans for the trip will be finalized 

220 W. Marion . Elkhart 
Serving Michiana's Music Community for 25 years Special Student Discount Bring your student ID 
,, ,n. 

-----~---~-----------~ -------------~---------------··------------~------------~--­
For late April 



An Tostal plans formed 
by Bob Quakenbush Staff Reporter 

Maybe it's not entirely factual, but Ron Paja's claim that "the only reason for second semester is An Tostal" certainly reflects the exuberance the members of the An Tostal committee feel about April's three day festival. And why not? 
The Beach Boys, a carousel, the Bookstore Basketball Tourney, the Original An Tostal Amateur Hour, the Trivia Bowl, relay races and the always popular tug-of-war are just a few of the dozens of highlights, contests, and en­tertainments which will enliven the third weekend of April at Notre Dame. 
Wally Gasior, An Tostal chairman,announced the Beach Boys' signing to the committee last week, an announcement which came as a big boost for the group still in search of a site for the traditional Irish Wake.• 
Rich Donovan, concert coor­
dinator for the Student Union, 
explained, "There was an open 
date on the ACC schedule on April 
20, so because of An Tostal being 
the same weekend we decided to go 
for the Beach Boys." The Beach 
Boys will appear in concert on 
"Sunny Saturday" at 7:30p.m. as 
part of the An Tostal celebration. 
Concerning the Irish Wake, Gasior announced that the party's customary site, the South Bend Armory, will almost definitely be unavailable on April 20. Preliminary plans had called for direct bus transportation from the 
ACC after the concert to the Wake. But for now, that plan, too, must be shelved. 
"I'd like to emphasize that we are continuing the search for a new site," said Gasior, "but we'll take any suggestions directed to us." 
Gasior also reported that he and Tom Eichler, another member of the committee, plan to discuss the use of Stepan Center for the event with Dean Macheca on Friday. 
Macheca has informed Gasior 
that the University has free access 
to a carousel, a genuine 1913 
merry-go-round. If a way can be 
found to transport the carousel to 
campus, the committee hopes to 
make use of it onn Sunny Saturday. 
Discussion during Wednesday nights' meeting centered on new events for An Tostal. The most promising was "name That Tune! " Other suggestions were wrist wrestling matches, balloon shaving, and dozens of variations of games utilizing ping pong balls and-or blindflods. 
As promised, Walter Gasior revealed the tentative organizational chart for the 1974 An Tostal Committee. Gasior is chairman, Ron Paja is his 
assistant, and the organizers of the respective days of activity are as follows: Geentle Thursday: Kathy Keyes, Patty Lurel, Bob Quakenbush, Tom Prter, and Kathy Strong; Frivolous Friday: Fred Baranowski, Mary Jane Bolinske, Marty Kabbes, Kevin McGuire; and Sunny Saturday: Tom Eichler, Julie Griffen, Pat McLaughlin, Bob Murphy. 
Separate directores for some of themore involved events were also appointed, Lou Myers and Rory Moran will mastermind the Second Annual Notre Dame Decathlon. Vince Meconi will be responsible for the popular Bookstore Basketball Tourney (alias the "Iron Man" Tournament), while Bolinske will handle the girls' roundball tournament. 
Art Ferranti and Butch Ward from the Observer, will prepare the An Tostal booklet. 
Having decided <unofficially) to generate a rumor each week to heighten the enthusiasm and anticipation for An Tostal , the committee released the following: 
"It is rumored that Evel Knievel himself is considering an attempt to leap the mudpit, water barrels, North Quad, An Tostal truck and An Tostal chairman himself form a standing start at the bottom of a fifty foot ramp---on a TRICYCLE!" 

Two 1st's, two 2nd's 
Karate tea1n chops up tourney 
The Tae Kwon Do Chung Do tournament, Phil Hawley fought Kwon <Karate) team competed in his way .to a first place in sparring. its first 1974 tournament last In the forms competition, Phil weekend. Under the direction and Hawley and Bill Dwyer brought coaching of Raymond L. Sell, third back first and second place degree black belt, Notre Dame positions, respectively. Frank brought home two first place and Calindrino placed fourth in the two second place finishes in the Michigan state tournament. 
The tournament was divided into two types of competition-forms <kata) and sparring. In the sparring competition, Michael Lilienthal took home a second place trophy after a closely fought 3-2 decision in the finals of the brown belt division. L11ter in the 

SMC security plots road light system 
by Mary Janca Staff Reporter 

A planned lighting system along St. Mary's Road is among several St. Mary's Security projects. 
According to SMC Security 
Director Anthony Kovatch, the 
lights will be installed "as soon as 
we can raise the money and as 
soon as they can be put up." 
Security has also begun to crack­
down on traffic violations. 
Speeding has been particularly 
stressed, noted Kovatch, following 
several auto accidents involving 
pedestrians this past year. 
In addition, security is 
tightening up its policy on parking 
in front of the dorms. The penalty 
currently is a $5 fine, and there is a 
possibility that violators' cars will 
be towed, noted Kovatch. 
The taxi service, which security 
initiated at the beginning of this 
semester, has been successful so 
far, he commented. The service 
enables girls stranded. at ND after 
the last shuttle leaves to call SMC 
security for a ride back to St. 
Mary's. 
Kovatch also warned against 
hitchhiking or bike-riding along 
the road .. 
Two teams are presently being formed to represent Notre Dame in the national intercollegiate karate tournament. This will be held in Ann Arbor Michigan on March 30th, on the Michigan State University campus. 

Tuesday, March 5, 1974 the observer 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOOR SALE 
Humidifier, S30 ; Sears 9x9 umbrella tent,S20. Schwinn Pixie 16" S20. Call 234-7375 after 5. 
Sony TC 161 SO Dolby Cassette. 1973 best model. List $329. Want $175. Call 3254. 
Limited supply of stereo equipment . All receivers , tape decks, speakers, 25 per cent off. 8.436 8437 8782. 
70 Pontiac Le Mans power, automatic. $1175. Call Gary 259-5894. 
NOTICES 
Morrissey Loan Fund loans up to $150 for 30 days, 1 per cent interest service charge. One day walt. Basement o f LaFortune. Hours 11:15-12:15. 
SMC Summer School. London with travel in Ireland, Scotland, Wales, England and Paris. May 20-Jun 20. College Credit available. $795 plus tuition. Professor Black 284­4948 office, 272-3726 home. 
For a Greyhound ticket to 
Chicago,  or. any  city  with  
connections  in  Chicago,  Call  
Tom Boyer 272-1807.  

WANTED 
Rider needed to O'Hare airport leaving Mar 9. 6 am. Call Matt 7883. 
Riders wanted St. Louis area, KC, Wichita. Mar. 8, 9. 234­8772. 
Need housemate for 2 BR house off Anglea Call Mike 234-8314. 
Used acoustic wanted. Call Tim 234-8092. 
RIDES WANTED 
Need ride to I U Thur.s. Call Shawn 233-.ol818. 
Need ride to Long island Spring Break. Call 8895. 
Need ride to Fla. Mar. 8. For 1, 2, or 3. Call Joe Powers, 232­2693. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost green parka at Keenan Party last Sat. Call8659 Larry. 
Have you checked Rm 150 Ad Bldg. for your lost notebooks and textbooks?? We also have hats and gloves . Hours 10-12, 1-5 , 7-9. Mon-Fri. Articles from first sr:mester also. 
Found wedding ring, mans, Lot C-3. Call Steve 288-9490. 
PERSONALS 
"no name" 
The flower Is dying of unrequited love. PLEASE make yourself known! 
Robin. 
Yeux verdants, (provacatifs) quand seras-tu une amante le Mort Joyeaux? 
TONY MONTAGNESE: OUR FAVORITE IN THE RING AND OUT GOOD LUCK CHAMPION TON IGHT'S B.. BOUT!!! 
Round-hair and Shorty. 
Happy Birthday Chris, Darlene, and Diana too. Rob. 
Rebecca-Happy Anniversary babe. Jer 




'learafter year, semester Iaftersemcster, the CollegeMaster" from Fidclitv Union Life has tx-cn the most acccptL~ most popular plan on campuses all over America. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity Union CollcgcMaster·· Field Associate m your area: 
1 005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend , Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 

·... Carlton· Higgenbotham 


r-------------------------~----~--~----~-----­
8 the observer Tuesday, March 5, 1974 




Flyers fly higher,. bomb ND 97-82 
by Vic Dorr Sports Editor 

DAYTON, 0.--He stood at the freethrow line with 3:53 left in the game, looking not at all like an All­American Backcourt Candidate. 
·He stood maybe 5'11", and weighed maybe 160 pounds, and as he stood there, eyeing the basket, his spindley arms and honey, knobby knees effectively camoflagued a devastating of­fensive basketball player. 
"He" was Donald Smith, the University of Dayton diminuative senior guard, and "He" was the dynamo who scored 32 points last night, while leading the upstart Flyers to a solidly stunning 97-82 upset of Notre Dame's second ranked Fighting Irish. 
He stood at the freethrow line with 3:53 left in the game, and dropped in the first and then the second of two one-and-one free throws. That gave the Flyers a 10 point lead, 84-74, and then Smith, on Dayton's next trip down the floor, pitched in a long distance jump shot to put the Flyers up by 12, 86-74, and to put the game in Dayton's back pocket. 
The Flyers, from that point on, 
were content to slow the game 
down. And when official time 
expired some three minutes later, 
the local, rabid, Dayton arena 
crowd of 13,000 plus mobbed Smith, 
coach Don Donoher and anyone else who rappened to be near ared on white Flyer uniform. 
For Smith, it was more than a rewarding team upset. It was also a stellar individual effort which overshadowed last year's subpar showing in South Bend. 

"Last year," said the cool, collected Dayton guard, "I really shouldn't have played at all. My wrist was messed up, and besides, they were playing witha two-three1 zone which forced me to shoot from further outside than I would have liked." 
"Tonight, though, they played a man and I just keyed to that all the way. I love to see a man to man. That's my game." 
Notre Dame's man to man defense was Smith's "game" but the slick, sprightly senior did not carry the Flyer effort by himself. There was also freshman Johnny Davis, a backcourt ace who scored 18 points and who teamed with Smith to befuddle Notre Dame's press. 
And there was a trio of big men: Mike Sylvester (who finished with 14 points), John Von Lehman (8), and Allen Elijah (8). Between them, those three big men pulled down 20 rebounds, and effectively neutralized NO's usually strong inside game. 
Notre Dame's base line trio of John Shumate (29 points), Gary Novak (9), and Adrian Dantley <11) performed well under 

leers in playoffs: lace Tech tonight 
pressure against the inspired Flyers, but nothing Notre Dame could do last night was enough to offset the Dayton onslaught. 
"I'm very happy for them," aid Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps in the somber silent Irish locker room. "I think they played very well, and I think they've got a very good team. They shot well tonight, and they have a really good back court. Smith has to be one of the finest guards in the country. 

"It's obvious that we did not shoot well. We didn't play well offensively or defensively, and , they did. They beat us." 
The Irish shot well enough during the ball game--they hit on 41 per cent of their attempts from the field--but during a frenzied final eight minutes, the Notre Dame attack was unable to keep pace , with the hot shooting Flyers. The Irish were outscored 10-6 during the final two minutes of play but by that time the issue was no longer in doubt. 
Smith clicked on a pair of freethrows with 29 seconds remaining to boost Dayton into its largest lead of the night, 17 points, 95-78, but the Irish trailed by nearly that many at one point in the first half. 
Dayton's torrid attack shook Notre Dame out of its defensive composure early in the contest and the Irish never recovered. The 
Flyers led by 15, 38-23, with 5:31left in the half, and even though Notre Dame closed the gap to 6, at 44-38 with 6 seconds showing before an intermission, the Flyers lost neither their drive nor their poise. 
Both teams are now bound for appearances in the NCAA tour­nament. Dayton is headed for an appearance in the Western Regional bracket, and the Irish are Don Smith did most of the damage last night and his Flyer teammates 


took care of the rest as Dayton shocked the second-ranked Irish 97-82. "We played 26 games this season," · But deSpite the heartbreaking offered Phelps afterwards, "and lesson taught to the Irish by Don we knew all along that anything Smith and his Dayton teammates, could happen. It did tonight. But I the Irish season is hardly eiHicng hope Dayton gets past the first on a "down" note, for Notre Dame round and I hope they make it into won 24 of their 26 regular season the Regionals. As far as we're , games in '73-'74 and the two losses concerned, we'll find out Saturday suffered en route can only have how tonight's loss has affected us. better prepared them for what lies by John Fineran 
, slated for a Saturday date against · I'm sure we learned a lot tonight. ahead in the NCAA playoffs. Austin Peay in Terre Haute, Ind. You always learn when you lose."'
Houghton, Mich.-Notre Dame's hockey team arrived at this capital of 1 snow Sunday afternoon, happy to still be in the national title picture, but aware that their eighth-place finish pitted them against the MacNaughton Cup champs, first-place Michigan Tech. 

Holy Cross IH champions
It won't be an easy thing for Notre Dame to go to Boston next weekend. 
First, the Irish icers must beat the Huskies here in a two-game, total­by Sam Yannucci
goals series, and then, in all probability, Notre Dame will have to beat Mi.nnesota in the same setup at the Twin Cities. 
The Irish were greeted with some rather unexpected weather when Fighting when you're down and they landed at the Houghton Hancock Airstrip. The temperature was in keeping your poise when you're up the 30's and the snow was melting. Both of these facts are strange oc-is the mark of a champion. In this curences to the Copper Country folk. year's 1H cage finals between Holy 
"We have had a mild winter," Sports Information Director Dennis Cross and Grace V, Holy Cross was Hanks said. "We've only had 180 inches of snow." able to do just that and for the 
Still, the Irish must weather these formidable Huskies, who finished 25· second straight year notched the 7-2 during the season. Coach John Macinnes, now in his 18th season as : Interhall Basketball crown. Tech mentor, has had a success story few other coaches could match. He The best two of three series, is one of five coaches to have gained over 350 wins and his teams have : though, was not settled easily. The won five WCHA titles and two NCAA championships. I full three games were needed to 
The Huskies, however, are well-aware of the Irish talent on ice. In fact, Idetermine the champ and the 
Notre Dame has enjoyed its best success this season against Tech. The Irish opened the season with a win and tie here, and then split the series at home during January. If either series was a playoff one, the Irish icers would have been on their way to Minneapolis. Unfortunately for Notre Dame, neither series was. And just as unfortunate, the Huskies have just as much talent as Notre Dame. 
Sophomore center Mike Zuke leads the Tech attack with 68 points, but fellow center BobD'Alvise is close behind with 61. D'Alvise is the leading goal scorer with 27, followed closely by Zuke and left wing Graham Wise with 26. 
Tech's defense has also been strong this season, helping goaltenders Rick Quance and Jim Warden fashion three shutouts. The blueline corps is led by Jim Nahrgang, one of the QUtstanding defensemen in the country. Nahrgang has scored seven goals and 26 points and also leads the team in penalties with 36 for 83 minutes. 
Paul Jensen, Bob Lorimer and Bruce Abbey also add to this defense with their steady play. Jensen, in fact, is one of two Huskie freshmen Jensens <Steve, a left wing, no relation) in contention for the league's outstanding frosh award, won by Zuke last season. 
In goal, Quance has seen the bulk of the action, showing a 3.37 goals-against and two shutouts in 24 games. Warden has a 3.10 goals-against in 
10.3 games and is coming off a broken finger suffered the week prior to the January -meetings with the Irish. 
The Irish, meanwhile, have a new scoring leader in left wing Eddie Bumbacco. Bumbacco, a consensus All-America choice last season, has shrugged off season-long doldrums in the last two :weekends to score seven goals, including a hat trick in Friday night's 4-3 loss to Wisconsin. Eddie now has 101 career goals and is one of ten players in college hockey history to have both 100 goals and 100 assists. 
Bumbacco will be matched with Brian Walsh and tri-captain Ian 
Williams, and Pat Conroy will center Larry Israelson and former team-IFrank Allocco, and an air tight leading scorer Ray Delorenzi. The third line for the Irish will have fresh-~efense which only yielded long man Clark Hamilton at center between Ric Schafer on the right and JUmp shots, Grace stormed to an 
matchups, although tension-filled, · were still characterized by aggr~sive, top-flight basketball. This type of roundball play was expected from the onset however as both teams were composed of · se_veral players not unfamiliar with Caoch Phelp's varsity program as well as plenty of other players that any Rock or ACC frequ~nt would easily recognize. 
As IS the case with virtually all teams that reach a championship game, they had to be doing something right throughout the season and consequently shy away from making any substantial changes. Such was the attitude with this series. Holy Cross's str~tegy wa~ to simply ~'Play ball" while captam Leo Kuhc of Grace was more definitive. "We're going to play team ball, run, and try to pressure Holy Cross into mistakes." In the first game, that's exactly what happened. 
Grace 55 Holy Cross 52 
Utilizing the pin point shooting of 

either Jim Augustine or Pat Novitski on the left. 11-8 first quarter and 26-18 half , As it turned out, Bruno didn't The defensive pairings will remain the same as they were for the time advantage. have to worry about Allocco for Badgers. Steve Curry, who is now the holder of the schiW)l's defenseman The third quarter was a com-long. The game was extremely (continued on page 6) plete turnabout as Holy Cross tense and emotions and tempers 
looked like a "Hog of a different 
color." Bedford Bruno put a clamp 
around Allocco, limiting the Grace 
star to a mere 2 points, while his 
teammates were busily chipping 
away at the lead. 
After cutting the deficit to two 
points, 34-32, HC guard Fred 
Baronowski picked up a loose ball 
and raced down court for an ap­
parent bunny. But he tripped, 
screamed, and unfortunately had 
to be taken to the hospital with torn 
ligaments in his left knee. 
Thereafter, Holy Cross could not 
sustain the momentum that they 
had had. A much needed basket by 
Allocco and clutch free throws by 
Allocco, Tom Lang, and Drew 
Mahalic iced the game for Grace. 
"We had tremendous individual 
performances tonight," com­
mented Grace captain Kulic, "but 
without a doubt the difference in 
the game was our ability to 
rebound." One of the outstanding 
individual performances Kulic 
alluded to was Frank Allocco's 24 
points <16 in the first half). He was 
backed by his brother Rich who 
netted 10 points. Holy Cross 
captain John Sweeney led the Hogs 
with 17 points while John Cornelius 
(14 points) and Bedford Bruno (13 
points) added scoring support. 
Holy Cross 43 Grace 40 
This was a do or die game for 
Holy Cross. "We opened with a 
box and 1 to try to contain Alloc­

co," said HC captain Sweeney, 1 "but he just stood at half court. 
Their big guys got some easy 
buckets underneath, so we were 
forced out.of it. Buff Bruno did an 
excellent JOb on Allocco, though." 
were flaring. Midway through the second stanza, Allocco was ejected from the game, and HC coasted to 27-19 half time lead. 
But again the third quarter was like night and day. "Without our two top scorers (Rich Allocco had earlier sprained an ankle and couldn't play),"stated Kulic, "we had to rely on a power game and some desire." With Tom Lang and Drew Mahalic scoring well un­derneath, Grace found itself back in the ball, trailing by only 3 points. 
Yet despite their spirited play, Grace didn't quite have the guns to sink HC and their three big scorers, Bruno (16 points), Sweeney (12 points) and freshman Bill Mitchell (11 points). Grace's Lang, though, did manage to take game honors with 17 points while holding one of HC's top scorers, John Cornelius, to 2 points. 
Championship game Holy Cross 49 Grace oil 
People sometimes say that a loss inspires a team. For the first half of this game, that adage seemed to have some truth. Grace, playing once again with the Allocco brothers in the lineup, came out hustling and firing. They were up 13-8 at the end of the first stanza and 21-17 at the break. 
But, just as in the previous two tilts the third quarter turned out to be the most crucial one. Bruno hit a lay up, Sweeney hit two more bunnies, Mitchell canned a tur­naround, Cornelius scored from the corner, and suddenly Holy Cross led 27-21. 
"That flurry was the turning point of the ball game." Sweeney said, "It really fired us up." From then on it was the poise of the Hogs that dictated the outcome of the 
game.(conttnued on page 6) 




