OD The Inside 
Off-campus suit 
.••page 3 
Letters 
.••page 11 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX No. 32 Friday, October 11, 1974 

Joyce offers ticket compromises 
by Thomas O'Neil Staff Reporter Three compromise proposals for student basketball tickets were offered by 
University Executive Vice-President Fr. Edmund Joyce to Student Body President Pat McLaughlin yesterday. A special referendum vote will be held today at dinner in the halls and dining halls for students to express their 
preferred compromise. The current price for a season basketball ticket is $28 for both padded and bleacher seats. The compromises proposed are: 


1) Everyone will receive bleacher seats for a season price of $14. 
2) 1,000 padded seats will be sold for the season price of $21, while the remaining 4,400 bleacher seats will sell for $14. 
3) All tickets will be $21, with 1,900 cushion seats offered, and 3,500 bleacher seats. 

4) 3,500 bleacher seats for $14 and 1,900 cushion seats for $28. 
A compromise agreement was originally sup­posed to be finalized today, but McLaughlin has asked for an extension from Joyce on the final decision until Monday so that student opinion could be solicited in a formal referendum. 
"We are asking the students for bargaining power," McLaughlin commented, "and in a sense we are asking for a vote of confidence. We seriously recommend that the students vote for the second proposal, but if the students vote to reject the compromise altogether, it will be up to the students to support a boycott." 
Fr. Joyce commented, "We did not foresee this student reaction. It took us by surprise, but we certainly want to act in the best interests of the students, while at the same time considering our present financial problems." 
Joyce explained that the recommendation to increase student ticket prices was made last May. It was agreed upon sometime in June and disclosed to the student body Monday. Outraged students reacted with a proposal to boycott the buying of season basketball tickets, while McLaughlin met with Fr. Joyce yesterday afternoon to negotiate possible compromises. 
In order to solicit student opinions, McLaughlin visited two of the campus halls last night to confront them with the proposed compromises. He spoke to an estimated 200 students and believed they found the second proposal the most agreeable. He also thought they were in favor of his student referen­dum. 
Concerning the proposed compromises, Frank Flannigan, Student Body Vice-President, com­mented, "I think the selection of Pat McLaughlin's preference, Compromise number two, is the least of four evils. In my opinion, I don't think the students should have to pay at all to go to the basketball games." 
The issue was complicated by Father Hesburgh's disclosure Wednesday of the existence of "En­dowment Fund C", a university reserve of $2.5 million. Father Joyce explained that these surplus funds could not be used to defray the financial loss in lowering student ticket prices. 
Fr. Joyce described Endowment Fund C as "extraordinary income that we cannot anticipate, such as the revenue from last year's Sugar Bowl Game." The funds have been invested by the 
(continued on page 5) 

Strengths and vueaknesses cited 
Hesburgh discloses accreditation findings 
by Ken Girouard and its other services to un­balance thoughtful attention creditation of Notre Dame, the Association then sends a com­Starr Reporter dergraduate students are quite should be given to the competing University retains its status as an mittee composed of presidents,superior. merits and claims of liberal arts accredited institution. The deans, department chairmen and The institutional strengths and --Doctoral programs meet ac­and professional programs. University will enjoy this status for professors of other educational weaknesses of the University of ceptable standards. The full report of the North a ten-year period, at the end of institutions to study and evaluate Notre Dame were disclosed by --The institution has a strong Central Accreditation which it will become subject to each department and its report.University President Fr. Theodore sense of community, reflected in Association's findings is not yet review and re-accreditation. Finally, the committee meets 
M. Hesburgh last Wednesday. high student, faculty, and ad­available for publication. Release The procedura for re-and draws up a report which ex­Speaking at the annual president­ministrative morale. of the report will follow its accreditation requires each plains their findings as well as faculty meeting, Hesburgh an­--The highly successful athletic presentation to the Board of department and institution within their recommendation for im­nounced the findings of the North program is subordinate to and Trustees by Hesburgh. the University to prepare a provement The committee also 
Central Accreditation supportive of the University's detailed report of their status, includes its decision on whether or
Accreditation process
Association's report on Notre educational purposes. facilities and goals. not the institution should be re­
As a result of the NCAA's ac-
Dame. --Computer services, and access The North Central Accreditation accredited. 
The report, which is a result of a to computer facilities, are thorough investigation by the superior. accreditation group, cites ten strengths of the university and Areas of concern seven areas for concern. In his speech, Hesburgh went over each The following items were listed point and then commented upon as areas of concern for the them. He added, however, that University by the report: Notre Dame was easily accredited. --There is a need for more 
sharing of information, and for University strengths better communication on policy, personnel and budget questions. The following items were listed --The faculty expresses as strong points of the University frustration in regard to its inef­by the report: fectiveness in the realm of in­
-Notre Dame has a clear sense stitutional governance. of educational direction and --For a doctoral university the purpose. library has substantial deficien­
--Administrative leadership is cies in its holdings and in its outstanding. financial support. 
--The University is in good --There is a need for heightened financial condition and benefits sensitivity to the concerns and from capable fiscal management. interests of women students. 
-The Board of Trustees actively --Preoccupation with un­promotes the well-bring of the dergraduate instruction leaves institution. graduate studies in an amorphous 
--The faculty is well-qualified, state and deprives them of the and effectively supports the in­analytical attention they need. stitution's general educational --The institution's traditional purposes. graduate strength in the sciences 
--The University offers high may be slipping. quality undergraduate instruction, -In the interest of institutional 

the observer Friday, October 11, 1974
2
r 
f 
warld briefs 

TITUSVILLE, FLA. UPI + Floridians as far south as Miami were warned Thursday to avoid contact with potentially explosive glass vials of a deadly chemical which has washed up on a 180-mile stretch of North Florida beaches. 
ROSTON UPI + Mayor Kevin H. White Thursday criticized President Gerald Ford's statement on Boston's school desegregation controversy and said he will not support further school desegregation programs until the federal government commits itself to helping the city. 
WASHINGTON UPI--Doctors Thursday cleared Betty Ford to return home Friday after two weeks' hospitalization for breast cancer surgery and President Ford said his wife is "raring to go." 
an campus t:aday 

5 pm--vespers, evensong, log chapel 
5 pm--mass and dinner, bulla shed 
7 pm--meeting, "friday night deal" navigators, non­denominational christ-centered fellowship, flanner penthouse 
8:30pm--concert, gordon lightfoot, ace 
saturday, october 12 
8 am--test, law school admissions, eng. aud. 
11 am--multi-media show, "notre dame In review", walsh hall 
1: 30--football, nd vs. rice, stadium 
sunday, october 13 
4:30pm--vespers, evensong, lady chapel 
4, 7& 10 pm--film, "rosselllnl's socrates" wng. aud. 
7, 9 & 11 pm--"executlve action", walsh hall 
daily 
10-5 pm--pre-columblan art, french art, contemporary graphics, 
10-5 pm, 1-5 pm sun.--pre columbian art, french art, contemporary graphics art faculty & masterpieces from perm. coli., nd art gallery 
--bill kremer, one man show on recent ceramic sculptures 
--miner white-captures the spirit of american life 

12-9 pm--eugene atget traveling show international museum of photography, george eastman house, main moreau gallery 
12-9 pm--recent drawings, dr. c. a. delly, c.s.c, hammes gallery 
12-9 pm--watercolors 1, gertrude habart, photo gallery. 
12-9 pm--harrlet rex-smith paintings from yin yang series, little theater gallery 



NICKlE'S 
HAPPY HOUR 
TODAY 2 ­
DRINKS PRICE 

3 OLD STYLES FOR $1.00!_ 

Joyce clarifies endowment fund 
by Dennis Kelly Learning Center as two examples Association of UniversityStaff Reporter of such xpenditures. He stated that Professors, claimed that not a fund such as Endowment C is faculty member participated in the 
University Executive Vice necessary in making jjreadily decision to allot moneys to purelyPresident Fr. Edmund Joyce available capital for further ex­academic projects.yesterday clarified Endowment penditures of this sort. Fund C, announced by Fr. The endowment, established in 
Trubac noted that he had talkedHesburgh in his annual Faculty May by action of the university's to a small number of colleagues,Address Wednesday. Board of Trustees, contains $2.5 

most of whom expressed disap­
million. This amount is currently

Hesburgh told the faculty that pointment with the fund. 
invested in several types of

this endowment fund came from a securities. University Provost Trubac said that Fr. Hesburgh,surplus in the athletic budget and 
Father James Burtchaell stated 
who in his speech called for im­

would finance experimental 
that this investment may yield a 5 
proved communications betweenacademic programs. 

percent profit. 
administration and faculty, 

Joyce noted that this enowment The purpose of Endowment C "missed the golden opportunity to consolidated several athletic funds was challenged by Finance do so" by not allowing faculty accumulated in recent years into professor Edward Trubac. reports and input to enter into the 
one fund providing moneys for Trubac, president of the Notre final decision on the matter. academic use. Monies from En­Dame chapter of the American 
..............................................

dowment C would be invested in "very worthy things on a one-shot 
basis," Joyce explained. In­: MICHIGAN STREET : 
vestments of this type would be without recurring expenses. 
i ADULT THEATRES i 

Joyce cited a recently purchased 
: X 2 FlLIVB :

Episcopalian Theological Library collection and the Freshman Year • • 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by lhe students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46SS6. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6. 
: X BOOKSI'Cm: : 
: X LIVE FLCXE SHO-W : : 1316 SOlJrH MICHIGAN STREET 
:• 


:.rt.f..~.~!t~:.1.~Jlt.E9.11.lfi~P.&MrJgn~ 


fKIDAY OCTOBER 11 S-111"' SIITIJND~Y OCTOIIK ll ,,,,_mitlhlfAt 
PCLI!:H ~•WSAGE tRiSH FOLK DAMCi,_ DfLLY OAIIfCiMG 
OL.Atl( ARTS D:SPLAY (.ORfEK, VKRAHI~UI Fot.JC. OANC*IG 
KARAtt: p[fl.4ufoi&TPATtC.. 
CIRMAH U IR GARD£M$ PlliSH, HUNCARi"M FOU( OAICc;iM~ DAWCiNC UHDEA tM£ STM$ HiCHlU' 1R.Ort l'•\1 fa.t 
The Civic Minded Shopping Center 
-
~,_-..,.~-:...,.~ ..,~., ..... ·~;,~.~.I. ~.~ ...0 


----------------------~--------------------------------~-----------­
Friday, October 11, 1974 
the observer 
3 

Faculty Committee letter 
Editor's note: The following letter in response to Fr. Hesburgh's Faculty Address was written by the eight members of the Executive Committee of the Faculty Senate. The letter focuses on Hesburgh's announcement of a $600 salary supplement for faculty. Charging Hesburgh with "an insensitivity toward faculty feeling that was tantamount to arrogance", the Executive Committee ~etailed efforts by the Faculty Senate and the AAU P to persuade the administration to grant a salary ~ncrease. Last week the Faculty Senate voted for a $1200 faculty salary raise retroactive to the beginning of the current contract year. 
Over the past six months, the faculty, through the Senate and the AAUP, has devoted much time and effort to the question of adequate faculty compensation. Specifically, we have made public and submitted to the University administration the following. 
l. (April) An analysis of the loss in faculty buying power (AAUP Report on the Economic Status of the Faculty at the University of Notre Dame). 
2. 
(May) A referendum of the entire faculty which overwhelmingly supported the Faculty Senate Statement on Salaries and Retirement. 

3. 
(September) An evaluation of the overall financial status of the University (AAUP Report Measuting the University's Financial Position). 

4. 
(September) An evaluation of Notre Dame's discretionary surplus of unrestricted revenue (Report of the Faculty Senate Committee on Recent University Budgets). 

5. 
(October( A report on Notre Dame's unfavorable salary-Increase position relative to peer universities. (AAU P Report, Comparative Salary Gains during the 1973-74 Academic year). 


These efforts culminated last week in a reasoned request, from the full Senate on behalf of the entire faculty, for a necessary minimum salary increase of $1200 retroactive to the beginning of the 1974-75 contract year. 
In spite of this faculty statement, Father Hesburgh announced a $600 salary supplement, not even a permanent salary increase, to be given to the faculty. No specific reference was made to any of these reports, statements, or to the arguments contained in them. 
In his annual address to the faculty this fall, the President of the University displayed an in­sensitivity toward faculty feeling which was tantamount to arrogance. After talking rather generally for about one hour on the amnesty board, a recent accreding report, which among other things e~aluated the _financial position of the University as excellent, and the high priority currently being g1ven to bulldmg the endowment and to establishing endowed chairs, In the last few minutes of the speech he finally ral~ed the issue of faculty salaries as his last substantive point. We were told of the Importance ofestabllshlngendowed chairs to reward excellence recognized in distinguished scholars in order to strengthen the faculty and to build the endowment even in these difficult times. To insure the future of Notre Dame, cost at present to Notre Dame's faculty. In simple fact, as recent Senate and AAU P reports have shown, much of the current increase in the endowment has come at the direct expense of funds which could have been used for increased faculty compensation. 
We question whether Father Hesburgh and the rest of the administration genuinely comprehend 
the strength of faculty feeling on the salary issue, the desperation of many faculty members finan­
cially, the har~ful effect these financial concerns produce on academic work and recruitment, and 
the pressure h1s attitude generates for faculty unionization. In explaining the source of the $600 
bonus, Father Hesburgh once again referred to a surplus of about $340,000 in last year's operating 
budget. This is really disingenuous on his part, since both Senate and AAUP reports on Notre 
Dame's budgets have shown that this figure is an arbitrary one, there being a large amount of 
discretionary funds ($1.5-$2 million dollars) which could have been transferred to this column of the 
ledger to produce a much larger surplus. 
In its brevity and terminal placement, the portion of Father Hesburgh's speech concerning faculty 
salaries can only further disappoint and frustrate those who continue to hope for imaginative and just 
leadership from the President of a major university which also calls itself Christian. Since the ac­
crediting report mentioned, and Father Hesburgh agreed, that a weakness and area of concern at 
Notre Dame is that of effective communication (e.g., between the administration and faculty}, it is 
particularly unfortunate that he did not avail himself of this opportunity to respond in true dialogue to 
the sincere efforts and communications ofh the Senate and AAUP on behalf of the faculty on the 
compensation issue. 
Executive Committee, The Faculty Senate 
James T. Cushing, Chairman Paul F. Conway Waldemar M. Goulet Norman B. Haaser Leslie H. Martin Irwin Press Robert H. vasoli Daniel H. Winicur 







MARX BROS. 
DUCK SOUP 
& 


MONKEY BUSINESS 
SAT. OCT. 12 7:00 9:30 & 12:00 ENG. AUD. 



Tallarida promises support 
j


lor off-campus students 
by David Rust 
Staff Reporter 

A South Bend-attorney informed Off-Campus Housing director Thomas TallaridaWednesoayof his client's intention to bring suit against six Notre Dame students, who are his client'sformer tenants, for breach of their rental agreement. 
The students have decided to countersue if the suit is actually filed, according to Tallarida. If the six win their case. the reper­cussions of the decision upon landlords and student tenants in South Bend, and upon application in general of Indiana statutes concerning the landlord-tenant relationship, would be great, he stated. 
William Mayette deputy St. Joseph county prosecutor for seven years and representing South Bend landlord Ray Millikien, told Tallarida that he would wait to take legal action until after November's local elections. 
Mayette is running for the chief prosecutor's seat, and Milliken is acting _as his campaign manager, accordmg to Tallarida 
Tallarida said Wednesday that 
Mayette who had been waiting for a decision from the six students involved as to whether or not they would accept Milliken's offer to come back to the house, or else work out some kind of financial agreement with their former landlord, told him that his client could wait no longer, and that he was "sorry to make this move." 
The six students who stand to be sued--Michael Welby, Vincent Converse, John Lalley Mark VanGrinsven, David Cro~ley and 
Frank  D' Am bra--made  their  
decision  to countersue  the  same  
day, said Tallarida.  

These decisions to sue follow a seven-month series of events which led the students involved to make a rental agreemet with landlord Milliken in April of this year, and then withdraw from it in the latter half of September, charging Milliken with failure to 
(continued on page 14) 
Horrecoming Schedule 



''THE NAZZ'' 
coffeehouse FRI. 11 :30 -1:30 
(after Gordon lightfoot) 
J. BEGERT, TRIAD 
SAT. 10:30 -1:30 
R.SP~ER,M.AR~TRONG, 
PETE SNAKE 


AD\1\ISSION FREE 

0-IEESE, CRACKERS, REFRESHMENTS 


4 
the observer Friday, October 11, 1974 

Over salary supplement 
Faculty reaction mixed 
by Matt Yokom 
Staff Reporter 

Several faculty members ex­pressed mixed feelings yesterday over the $600 salary supplement announced by University President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh at Wednesday's faculty­president meeting. 
Edward R. Trubac, assistant professor of finance and economics, "was pleased by a response to the financial concerns of the faculty." 
Trubac, also president of the American Association of University Professors at Notre Dame. indicated that there were, however some dissappointments. "The $600 supplement was only one-half requested by the faculty Senate." he said. 
Another criticism Turbac ex­pressed was the $600 was a sup­plement and not incorporated into the salary base. "Although the bonus helps meet this years cost-
Ai Razzano Dennis Chiddister Agent Agent 
'learalter year. ~emc~ter Iafter~emcster. t~~~ ( 'olle~eMaster' ~rom Fidelity Cnion Life has heen the most acceptl-d, most popular plan on campuses all overAmerica. 
Find out why. 
('all the Fidelitv Union 
Colle~e!Vlaster 
Field Associate 
111 your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 
Phil Teah Agent 

.. 
r 

COl 
r r 


~ 
I 
Dave WIH 
Agent 


of-living increase, inflation has 
increased for the past few years 
for which the faculty were not 
compensated," Trubac said. 

"Notre Dame has been lagging behind for a numberof years, and the only way to catch-up is by making any increase part of the permanent base," he continued. Jones, a member of the• faculty 
senate, noted"the faculty un­derstand the university is in the same position of hard times." However Jones added that he would like to see more of the University's discretionary founds go to the faculty. 
"Hard times is not the time to build endowments," Jones said. "The time to build endowments is in the good times to protect you in hard times." Noting as had Trubac, that Notre Dame faculty salaries are below thQse of com­prable institutions, Jones would like to see "parity with peeer in­stitutions." 
A group of students picketted the South Dining Hall, yesterday, in favor of a BBa II ticket boycott. 

Former AAUP president, assistant professor Paul Rathburn, only wished to say "like everybody else I'm grateful for the $600. Beyond that I'd rather not com­ment about Notre Dame salaries, because I find the subject very embarrassing." 
Another former AAUP 
president, associate professor of 
English Edward Manier, com­
mented on the salary supplement. 
"Between 75 and 90 per c t of this 
month's check is gone already so 
I'm glad to get it; but I wish I had it 
this month," he said. Manier 
added he had seven children at 
home. 
Ambrose Richardson, chairman of the architecture department, said that it "seems to me that the University has put top priority on faculty salaries. No one has ex­pressed to me any great concern about salary." 
Richardson continued, "from everything I've seen the university has been very fair about faculty salaries, but I would qualify that by saying that most of my ex­perience has not been in the academic area." 
Government professor Edward Goerner had no opinion on the bonus but objected to the private budgeting of university funds. "There isn't a public budgeting process so there is no way of judging" if the faculty should have received more, he stated. Goerner noted that Hesburgh had com­mented upon the development of a budgetary committee. Goerner, however, did not know if this would mean the relative distribution of funds ; would be ):!ublic "so no one IS walking around in the nark." 
NOW AVAILABLE AT THE NOT'RE DAME BOOKSTORE 
2nd Floor 


ONE FOR THE GIPPER 
by Patrick Chelland 
Warm, nostalgic, and rich in anecdote, One for the Gipper will delight old admirers of Knute Rockne as well as George Gipp and enthrall 
hose to whom this colorful, bygone era is relatively unknown territory. 
...$7. 95 
ALSO AVAILABLE 


PARSEGHIAN AND NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 


by Ara Parseghian 
by Richard Sullivan

and Tom Pagna ... $9.95 
Onefor 




THEGIPPER 
George Gipp. Knute Rockne. and Notre Dame 


Friday, October 11, 1974 the observer 
For cancer research 
SUNDAY MASSES 
(MAIN CHURCH)




~11 biologists win Nobel Prize 
STOCKHOLM UPI-An American 57, and Albert Claude, 75, both and two Belgians, partners in Belgians, shared the $123,oo0 prize pioneering cell biology, won the for "their discoveries concerning 1974 Nobel Prize in Medicine the structure and functional Thursday for research important •organization of the cell." in the detection and treatment of Dr. Nils Ringertz, a spokesman cancer. for Sweden's Caroline Institute 
All three had done major which handed out the award, said research in the United States. Claude's discoveries substantially George Emil Palade, 68, an helped cancer research and American, and Christian de Duve, through his centrifugal method 
South Bend food co-op to be considered Monday 
by Virginia McGowan 
Staff Reporter 

A South Bend food co-op under consideration for use by off­campus will be reviewed Monday night, October 14, in LaFortune Student Center, at 8 p.m., ac­cording to Fr. Thomas Tallarida, director of off-campus housing. 
The food co-op, "No Baloney Food Market," was put into operation two weeks ago. Located at 1125 Thomas Street, the new co­op is a member of the Federation of Co-ops based in Ann Arbor, Michigan. 
Tallarida invites students living on particular streets such as Corby, Allen, and Eddy, to send representatives to the meeting. Two of the men who run the co-op, Mr. Engels and Lenny Michaels, will be available for information and questioning at that time. Student Government president Pat McLaughlin and Off-Campus Commissioner Stan Cardenas will also be present. 
Tallarida stressed the reasons 
for considering this South Bend co­
op as a primary possibility for 
student patronage. "Here's a 
ready-made co-op that has already 
been established. The operators 
fulfill the law requirements and 
are willing to let ND students use 
their service," he said. 
The "No Baloney Food Market" 
accepts one week's order until 8 
p.m. each Tuesday eveing. By Thursday the orders are collated and on Friday the owners drive to Ann Arbor for the food. On Friday food is packaged. Orders are available for pick-up after noon on Saturday. 
Tallarida noted that "because this is a new co-op, their prices are higher than the oter established co­ops, but still lower than local food stores. There is a 15 per cent mark-up right now, but as their order increase in volume, prices will become lower," he said. 
Although the co-op is presently "based on cheeses and grains," according to Stan Cardenas, the owners will be expanding to in­clude canned foods, eggs and butter, and other dairy products. 
Cardenas commented that there "is no commitment on our part as of yet. I wouldn't say we're committed until we find out more about it and see how they are set up. We want to make sure that this is a good outfit to recommend to students," he said. 
Tallarida requested that off­campus representatives attend the meeting so that his office, Student Government, and Student Union Services will have some idea of student opinion concerning future patronage of the "No Baloney Food Market." 
"I think that if everything turns out well, students off-campus will have their immediate needs satisfied," Tallarida noted, "but we do need their cooperation. This office acts as a facilitator to carry out certain things, but, gentlemen, you will have to come and find out for " he said. 


r----------------------­
.....s SURVIVAL 
ES'I. AND'IHE FUNNIES,.. 
Featured in September Jath 
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED 
Cast including N.F.L.GREATS: 
Joe Kapp-Sonny Sixkiller • Ray Nitsc:okll • Ernie Wheelright · Ray Ogden · Pervis Atkins 
From the producer of "The Godfather": AI Ruddy 
StiiRRING 

BURT REYNOLDS 

'!THE LONGEST YARD'' 
EDoiE ALBERT 
CQ-S.1A~HING 
ED LAUTER MIKE CONRAD 
Miami & Ireland Roads South Bend 
Air-Conditioned Comfort 
FREE PARKING 
NON SHOVVING 
at 2:00-4:30 7:00-9:30 

"we can find the tumors veryquickly." 
· Dr. Miklos Muller, de Duve's associate at New York's Rockefeller Institute, called his colleague's work in cell biology "a new approach to cancer resear­ch." 
Prof. Sten Orrenius of the 
. Caroline Institute's Nobel board, r1~. ..;..;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.;·;;.;;;;;;;;;.;··;;,.-;;;;;;;;;;;-;;.;;-;;.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::;::!, 


said the prize winners' research 
led to discovery of substances which can destroy "medicines that otherwise could cause cancer." · 
The award was the latest in a series of Nobel prizes announced this week. The Peace Prize went to former Japanese Prime Minister Eisalu Sato and former Irish Foreign Minister Sean MacBride, and the economics award to Gunnar Myrdal of Sweden and Griedrick von Bayek, an Austrian­born Briton. Last week two Swedish authors shared the literature vrize. 


Joyce explains ticket situation 
(continued from page I) 
university, he 
explained and the interest from it 
will be used for academic purposes 
and to keep tuition at a minimum. 
"Endowment is a firm financial 
base we need desperately," Fr. 
Joyce continued. "Our en­
dowm ;ent is presently one-tenth of 
what it should be and we are trying 
to solicit as much income as we 
can from outside sources. We try 
to build up our endowment so that 
we can have a fixed income each 
year." 
On-campus students can vote in 
the referendum to be conducted 
during dinner at the dining halls. 
Off-campus students can vote in 
the Student Government office on 
the second floor of LaFortune 
between 1 and 5 p.m. this af­
ternoon. 
5:15 p.m. Sat. 
9:30 a.m. Sun. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. 

. 

' 1:1"1.-.. mttlttnt·at 
· W•r~ \U 

Jantak• ZDUB,.. 
~ &lp ~ 

"Enioy a snack or dinner" 
~======~===========:::=:============================!!==========~==============~====x====w 
:;:; 35 Varieties of Pancakes ::::: 
:;::Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches ;:;:: 
i~i~ Friday Nites: Perch Dinners@ 
:*::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::M 

U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North (Across from Holiday Inn) 

::r: 

1--­
SMC 




THEATRE 
1974-75 Our Ninth Season 
Your Host 
Bob Edwards, NO '50 
RESERVATIONS 284-4176 
Student -Faculty ND-5MC Staff $1.50 

LOOK HOMEWARD-ANGEL 
Ketti Frlngs' Pulitzer Prize play based on the novel byThomas Wolfe. 
Oct. 4, 5, 10, 11, 12 at 8:00P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 

: Rolling 201: HOW TO ROLL BETTER : 
1 Required Textbooklet: e-z wider 







: I 1. 
I i I
1 Fold the paper (approx. 3!4") at the end that 
isn't gummed. Sprinkle tobacco into thisI fold. Put more at the ends than in the mid-I die Close the paper over the tobacco, But 
1 don't tuck it in back of the tobacco just yet. 
: I I 3• 
I I I 
I Spin the tobacco by sliding the paper backI and forth a number of times. 
I I 
I
I 5 
I • I I I
I Roll the cigarette tightly, beginning at the center; and by pulling. work your fingers out I to the ends. 
I 
FR. BOB GRIFFIN CSC FR. ED MALOY CSC FR. JOHN LAHEY CSC FR. TOM ·STELlA CSC 
Prof. E. Z. Jay 1 


2. : I 
I I I 
--' 1 
Hold both halves of the paper, cradling the I tobacco inside with your thumbs closest to 
you and back.  your second and  third  fingers in  1 I  
I  
4•  :I  
I  
I  

When the tobacco is shaped and packed; I pinch the tobacco and the paper at the cen-I ter so that when you start to roll, the paper I 
will guide itself around the tobacco. 
I 
6 I 
I
• I
I I I I
Lick the gummed edge closed. Trim loose I tobacco from the ends. The cigarette is now ready to smoke. I 
I 

I This course is open to both beginning and advanced II students of hand-rolled cigarettes. Emphasis is on 11 easier, better rolling via the use of E-Z Wider 
double-width rolling papers. The course exposes the I I disadvantages of conventional rolling practices such I1 as sticking two regular papers together to roll one 1 
smoke. Students will learn th3t there is no betterI gummed paper made than E-Z Wider. II e robert burton assoc., ltd. new I 0 1 
••.•••••••••••• cutandsave ••••••••••••• 


THE OBSERVER buffoon 
~red Graver 
Editorial EditOr 
Bob ZOQas Business Mam:ger 

AN INOEP£NOENT STUOFNT NEWSPAPER 
EDITORIALS: 21U661 NEWS: 213-1715 BUSINESS: 213-7471 TomDnpe 
Edllor-ln-Qief .... McMMius 


~Mnrtbillg MHa,.. 



A Fifth Plan 
Today, students will be presented with a referendum which will offer four alter­native plans to the proposed basketball ticket price increase. These alternatives are the result of a compromise offered to Student Body President Pat McLaughlin by Father Edmund Joyce, Chairman of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics. 
McLaughlin has made the decision to bring the plans to the students in the form of a referendum, so that he may present the strongest argument possible before Father Joyce. After McLaughlin has done this, Father Joyce must go before the University's executive committee for final approval of the compromise. 
Thus, the referendum is the student's way of supporting a plan for compromise to be brought through the proper channels, so that a more equitable settlement can be made of the issue of basketball ticket prices. 
At this time, a boycott would prove futile. An atmosphere of negotiation and compromise has been created, and the students should respond accordingly. It has also become clear that a boycott would not succeed for two reasons: 1) it would not gain the necessary support of the full student body, and 2) the ACC would go ahead and sell the unpurchased student tickets at full price, according to sources. 

The four alternatives are: Plan 1: The students are offered only bleacher seats at the price of fourteen dollars for the season. 
Plan 2: The students are offered 1,000 padded seats at the price of twenty-one dollars for the season, and 4,400 bleacher seats for the price of fourteen dollars. 
Plan 3: The students are offered 1,900 padded seats and 3,500 bleachers, all at the price of twenty-one dollars for the season. 
Plan 4: The students are offered 1,900 padded seats at the price of twenty-eight dollars for the season, and 3,500 bleachers at the price of fourteen dollars for the season. 
As the four plans are carefully analyzed, it becomes evident that the issue has been shifted from a total monetary emphasis to one which concerns student rights and priveleges. Students have always had access to nineteen hundred padded seats at the ACC for basketball games. In two of the four plans, however, the number of padded seats is either cut down to nothing or reduced to one thousand. 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
~~~ 
1"', VH-HI/H.
RON, I IUANT 
~ R&MeMe&/l.
YOUR OPINION 
WHAT-YOV 7ll0fi6HT
ONTH& NeW 
'IOV CHAN6fD TH& OtO ONe
TITl-e FOR. MY 
501/NO&O 700
MeMOI/?5. 
.r,.,.J" 

Ideally, students deserve the best seats in the house to watch their basketball team. Realistically, this is not possible due to financial considerations. The ACC gets much of the money it needs to operate from the sale of padded seats to the public, at a higher price than what they charge students. 
It has become clear, though, over the last few days, that the ACC and the University are considering the basketball team as a highly profitable venture. In other words, they're in it for the money. 
What is to insure us that, once having given up nine hundred padded seats for what is now a cheaper admission price, the price will not be raised in a year or two and we will have lost those seats for good? What is to insure us that there is not a plan to, through financial coercion, move students out of the padded seats entirely? 
When viewed from this perspective, it becomes clear that the issue has become one of students getting the best seats possible at fair prices. 
On the other hand, how can we predict that the prices will go up again, and at such a drastic rate? In that case, it seems that twenty-one dollars is a great deal to ask for a bleacher seat. 
We feel that, in the best interest of the student body, none of the plans offered by Father Joyce is adequate. 
We propose a fifth plan. It is based on the immediate financial concerns of both the student body and the University, and the future speculations on student status in the ACC. 
Plan 5: The students are offered 1,900 padded seats at the price of twenty-one dollars, and 3,500 seats at the price of seventeen dollars, for a season rate. 
By our plan the nineteen hundred bleacher seats are retained for student use, at a price which is only a fifty percent increase over last year's price. The bleachers are not that much more than last year's price, but there is still enough of an increase to meet the rising costs caused by inflation. 
We recommend that the students choose between referendums two and three, to indicate their approval of the spirit of compromise and their support of the negotiations currently underway. 
We recommend to Pat McLaughlin and Father Joyce that they fully consider our alternative as they prepare to present the plans for compromise to the University's executive committee. dl d
The E tor1 1 a Boar 
8/TT&'R.?.. ~ 

GOT NOW?
I ~"" 

I 
\ I
/ t\:l' 

" 
-;:~~~ 

r 
~ 
fred graver-
Don Bouffard and his crowd of ticketscalpers in the ACC couldn't have incurred more wrath if they had told the student's that the ACC had been booked solid for the entire basketball season with the World's Largest and Longest Running Mobile Home Show. They came, bearing bad tidings, with all the class and savvy of a man going to a wedding in a hockey mask. Talk about trying to create the next world; basketball was one of the few things in this University that was progressing at a satisfactory rate. It was something that we could count on in a world where the right to stay in dormitories was snatched away with the ease of proverbial candy from proverbial babies. 
My, but it must have been hard for them. Imagine the soul­searching, anguished conversations in the plush Convo offices last spring. You thought the Watergate tapes were funny. How about this: 
(Names are withheld) A: Yep.. .looks as though the ticket prices will have to go up. 
B: Students, too? 
A: Of course. They've got the money, I know. 
C: They're not going to bP. happy about this. There must be some alternative. 
D: Perhaps if we gave them something for their money, something that made them feel like this increase was getting them something in return. 
B: You mean, like special half-time shows, things like that. 
C: How about doing something special with the tickets. Perhaps put baby pictures of the players on them. With a season's pass you can get the whole set. 
A: Won't work. The player's won't stand for it. 
D: You know, if we could get some more girl's to work for the ACC. Have them as ushers-real skimpy outfits. Call them something cute. Porn poms on the backs of their shorts, the whole shot. 
B: Not a bad idea. Why don't we form a sort of committee, you know, run it up a flagpole, kick it over the goalpost, bounce it off the backboard, see what develops. 
A: Good. Band D, I'll expect a report next week. This will ease over some of the feelings. You know, if we just back off from emphasizing the fact that the student's are paying for their basketball team, that they are really getting something more than they expect, something they really don't want. 
Well, fellas. I think you had the right idea when you said we should be getting something for all this extra money besides the shaft. But, why don't we approach it from a different angle. In­stead of tacking the expense directly on to the tickets, let's try and make through outside channels. There are any number of ways to raise funds for special events. 
For one, why don't we try a car wash? Lot's of students and people in South Bend have cars, and most of them are dirty (the cars, not the people). So, we'll line up half the student body with wash buckets and sponges along Highway 31. Put the band at the Angela corner, and have a big wash for every car that comes through. Only two dollars, and you get serenaded in the process. Washed and dried, clean as a whistle by the time you get to St. Mary's road. 
If this doesn't work, we can use the ACC, since that's what seems to be the bit drain here, for Bingo on Wednesday nights. 
How about a candy drive? World's Finest Chocolates would be happy to service a large drive like this, and if we can get it going by semester break, each student can hit his friends and neighbors at home, and mom and dad, too. (It's likely that mom and dad are going to pad some pockets to help pay for the tickets, anyway, so why not give 'em some chocolate coverd almonds in the process.) 
Perhaps we could just start charging for services that are provided already. Major cash could be made in the dining halls. Two cents for butter patties. Five cents for ice. That might work for a while. Remember, the student's can pya for it--they have the money. 
Since the idea of a freshman lottery is so appealing, why not make it work the other way? Tell the people of South Bend that they can take chances on the opportunity to buy a ticket. This may seem a bit outrag io1.1s though, as a lot of people who are "paying customers" might be unhappy with this arrangement. · 
As a last measure, and this could take care of a lot of the University problems, why don't we just tack a "Student Existence Fee" to tuition. It's optional, of course,but those who cannot pay it will be completely denied their rights (i.e., moved off-campus, from their halls, refused purchase of athletic tickets, forced to eat trash in the dining hall, have articles of clothing mysteriously disappear in the laundry, etc.) Of course, only three thousand people will be allowed to pay this fee, so the rest are just S.O.L. 
The only danger I see in this special fee is that a special, elite class of students would be created. Only thoi;ie who could pay up would be able to enjoy their rights, and the rest would become surly and uncontrollable. We would probably have an angry mob on our hands then, and they may even advocate a total boycott of this fee, or something worse. 
It's definitely something to wonder about. 

~ •HOIJNOeD! Y&5,5JR-ONe MAN'S 
~ 
I'M AFRAIO IT COMPleT& 
OH, MVCH GOOf) WAS. WHAT ANO TOTAL 
B&TTER, SIR-.IZl GO HAVE YOU DE5TRtJCT/QV. h 
MUCH SOFTeR. 1#/TH IT. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief: Tom Drape 
Editorial Editor: Fred Graver 
Managing Editor: Marlene Zloza 
Sports Editor: Greg Corgan News Editor: Terry Keeney 
Copy Editor: Jeanne Murphy 
Special Projects: AI Rutherford St. Mary's Editor: Mary Janca Senior Night Editor: Bill Brink Features Editor: J.R.Baker Contributing Editors: Ann McCarry, Jim Eder, Pattie Cooney, Chris Smith Photo Editor: Zenon Bidzlnskl 

~------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, October 11, 1974 
the observer 
7 

Women's sports at Notre Dame, SMC 
l 
~ 
j ~ 
I 


·~ " ' .· 
r· ~ 
. 
. 







t!J.E~, 


--~' 
' 

; t 
involvement in women's sports 
Supplement Staff 
Supplement Editor: AI Rutherford 
Staff: Chris Bach, Val Zurblls, Teresa Stewart, Maureen Flynn, Ellen Syburg Photographers: Chris Smith, Paul Joyce 

the observer Friday, October 11, 1974 

-=-----'­
Women's club sports are growing 
by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter 

B.D., Zonker, and the rest of Doonesbury's group aren't the only people currently concerned withwomen's athletics. As co-educational enters its fourth year at Notre Dame, more interest is being focused on sports activities for female students. 
Tom Kelly and Dominic Napolitano of the Intramural Sports depart­ment are just two of those concerned in expanding and improving the current program. "The number of women at Notre Dame is increasing every year," observed Kelly, "and women's sports are evolving from the ----------­intramural level to the club level, etc. We'd like to get a few women's clubs started slowly and successfully--not use a shotgun approach and have half of them fall on their faces." 
"We'd like to get the St. Mary's students involved, too," added Napolitano. "As far as intramurals are concerned, ~e ;"Yomen can have anything they want, but we have to know what that IS. ~s part of the effort to determine the wishes of Notre Dame and St. Mary s women, the Intramural Sports office has circulated aninterest and attitude questionnaire and established a Students' Advisory Board on Athletics. 
"The structure of the department needs to be changed," said Napolitano. "We'll need more funds somewhere along the the line. It'll work out, and we do alright now." 
The current program includes one intercollegiate sport, and s~~eral club sports in addition to intramural and tournament co~pet~tiOn. Freshman physical education classes are taught on a co-ed basis with the exception of soccer, the only contact sport offered. 
Fencing is the only sport at Notre Dame which has both a women's division and full intercollegiate status, although female students are allowed to compete with male students for places on the swimming and 

golf teams. On the club level, crew, skiing, and sailing have both men's a~d women's competition, while separate women's basketball and tenms ___________ clubs are starting their first year at Notre Dame. ­The women's tennis club, under the direction of coach Carole Moore, 
has already competed in several matches. "We're .a young tea~ and an inexperienced team," said Moore, "but we're gettmg str,onger m eve~y match. By the spring we should be well underway. The club IS scheduled for seven matches this fall and an equal number in the spring. 
"I wouldhope to see four or five women's teams competing on the in­tercollegiate level eventually," observed Moore. "There's a basic problem of finances, but I think that is definitely the wave of the future." 
The women's basketball club, with coach Jeanne Early, is slated for two home games and one away game inlFebruary, with the possibility of others Over sixty women are signed up for tryouts already, and Early expects more to do so. Early sees athletics for women at Notre Dame as "progressing quite a ways in a short time. I was impressed. The Athletic Department has been pretty good about giving us equal time." Early 
cited the diversity of women student's interests as a limiting factor in the 
development of more club sports. "There are so few women here with so many different interests. We have small numbers of women in a lot of different sports instead of a large number involved in a couple ac­tivities." 
"I'll be more than happy to advise any women's athletic interest groups." offered physical education teacher Astrid Hotvedt, "and to disseminate information among the groups." Hotvedt has already begun organizing field hockey and gymnastics for women. Open hockey practices will be held for anyone interested Saturday, Oct. 12 from 9:30­
10:30 a.m. and Sunday, Oct. 13, from 5:30-7:00 p.m. on the soccer field behind the ACC. Another one will be held on the astroturf at Cartier Field Tuesday, Oct. 15, from 7:30-9:00 p.m. 
The gymnastics group is awaiting the arrival of the women's ap­paratus. A clinic will be held later in the semester, and the season will be held second semester. More information on gymnastics will be available later. 
When asked about intercollegiate competition for women, Hotvedt said, "I would like to have levels of intercollegiate teams in the fall--possibly golf, definitely tennis, and maybe basketball. Volleyball and field hockey are natural sports for women's competition," she emphasized, "because most women have high school experience in them. The team sports have 
a better chance to achieve intercollegiate status than the individual sports." 
"It all depends on the talent and a lot of COC?peratioa from a lot of people--including money." Hotvedt will be attending a coalerence of the Mid-West Association of Physical Education Collete Ween in Angola this weekend, where national figures will be discussing tbl whole topic of athletics for the college woman. 

lnterhall athletic competition is on the upswing 
by Ellen Syburg Staff Reporter 
When co-education came to Notre Dame three years ago the office of non-varsity sports instituted a program of interhall athletic competition for women. Since its inception, the program has grown to include team participation in football, basketball, softball and volleyball. Tennis and racquet ball tournaments have also been instituted to provide individual competition. 
Two student assistants in the non-varsity sports office, Betsy Bernard andSueO'Brien, are co-directors of the women's interhall program. They termed response to the present program as "pretty good." 
O'Brien feels, "It's a lot better this year. Com­petition is better, and the women are taking it more seriously." She explained that last year there were many instances of team forfeiting games and missing deadlines. 
Mostteams have coaches now and regular practice schedules. This has helped to add to the strength of interhall competition," O'Brien added. 
Ellen Freeman, a member of the Walsh Hall football team, thinks the program has improved since her freshman year. "There are five dorms competing now which makes the schedule better and longer," she stated. "The competition is more serious and the rivalry between the dorms is growing." 
Explaining why she finds the program valuable, Freeman stated, "The women involved regard it as a skill. We go out there to perform as well as we can to win." 
A member of the Badin football squad, Laura Dodge, also welcomes the opportunity "to get out there and play. It's a great way to release tension," she said. 
Dodge explained that the competitive element is "good and adds to the challenge. Interhall sports is a great way to meet people from other dorms," she added. 
Unlike the men's interhall teams, the women are not charged any fees. "The girls don't use protective equipment like the guys," Bernard explained. "New jerseys were provided this year, but until the program requires more money than it does at present, the girls won't be asked to absorb the cost," she said. 
O'Brien and Bernard both emphasized that they are anxious to cooperate and build a program that women students want. The office is presently circulating a questionnaire among women on campus. 
"We hope to see what the interest is and what basic attitudes the women have toward athletics," O'Brien stated. "Our job is organization, if the women exhibit interest in a particular sport then we go ahead and set up a program," Bernard said. 

Includes fencino, tennis 

SMC sports successful 
by Christi Bock StPff Reporter 
The St. Mary's sports program has been successfully 
established in the fencing and tennis teams. And the 
organization of programs for swimming, gymnastics 
and basketball is underway as well as new intramural 
sports. 
The St. Mary's tennis team will be winding up its fall 
schedule this weekend by participating in a state-wide 
tournament at Ball State University in Muncie. 
After losing the opening match of the season to 
Valparaiso, the tennis team has advanced its record to 
5-l. Two victories came last week with Sunday's 9-0 
win over Notre Dame and an 8-1 defeat of Goshen 
College, Tuesday. 
Tennis coach Mark Peterson has a younbg team with 
a lot of potential. Barbara Timm and Louise Purcell, 
the no. 1and no. 2 seeds, are both freshmen. The other 
ten girls on the team are underclassmen, with the 
exception of one junior and senior. 
Several fund-raising projects are being planned to raise money for the team to travel to Florida over spring break. This will give them the chance to play on Florida clay and get into shape for the start of spring tennis. 
The St. Mary's fencing team is in its fourth year of competition under the coaching of Richard Rosinski and Mike DeCicco. Last year's team had a regular season record of 14-3 plus the championship of the Great Lakes Tournament. 
The fencers begin their season on Jan. 17 at Tri-state 
College in Angola. The team is also organizing a week 
long eastern swing enabling them to compete against 
teams in Ohio, Maryland and New York. 
Retaining their Great Lakes Championship is the 
main goal of this year's fencers. 
A golf team was organized to play a fall schedule 
with the coaching of John Sanguenetti. Mary Beth 
Marsho was second flight winner at a tournament held 
at Illinois State last month. The team has cancelled the 
rest of their schedule because of the lack of interest. If 
there are not enough golfers in the spring to constitute 
a St. Mary's team, the SMC players will join with the 
Notre Dame team. 
A basketball team is also being formed by about 15 interested girls. Enlisting the coaching advice of several Notre Dame students, practices are being held daily in Moreau Seminary. A basketball sched ule for it is still in the planning stages. 
Swimming and gymnastics equipment has been purchased and placed in Angela. Aschedule for these sports has yet to be finalized. 
The growing interest in women's sports has lead to the formation of intramural teams at St. Mary's. The sports commissioner, Mary Houbouras, hopes to generate as much enthusiasm in the St. Mary's in­tramural program as in the Notre Dame intramurals. 
Volleyball players should sign up by Oct. 18. Practices will be held in Angela starting Oct. 21. Tournament play starts Nov. 11 and will continue through December. Posters will be up around campus designating the sign up procedure. 
P.int-pong and pool will be played within the residence halls. Winners from each dorm will face each other for the championship during January. 
Intramural swimming teams will be formed in November. Competition will be held in the Regina pool. 
Intramural softball, badmitton, tennis, track, and football will be organized in the spring. 
Persons seeking more information on intramurals can contact Mary Houbouras at 5391 or Mary Jane Bolinske at 4175. 

-

Friday, October 11, 1974 the observer 9 
------------------~--~~~~----­

... 
Practice at 5:45a.m. 
Women's novice crew team impress competition 
by Val Zurblis Staff Reporter 

In the spring of 1973 the Notre Dame Men's Varsity Crew team had a race in Wisconsin. They were im­pressed that girls from other schools competed in crew, but their opinions were divided about having a women's crew team here. The men decided to see what kind of female reaction they would get. 
On Activities Night the next fall enough girls signed up for crew to justify establishing a Notre Dame Women's Crew Team. This team surprisingly went on to win the Midwestern Lightweight Sprint Cham­pionship one year later. 
"The team really got started last spring," explained captain Marilyn Crimmons. "We came in fourth at Princeton and 'crabbed' <lost synchronization) at home against Nebraska," she related. "Then we traveled to Madison and captured the Midwestern Sprint Championship. We had a perfect race," Crimmons stated. 
Clete Graham, a graduate student, coaches the girls both morning and afternoon. "I don't see how he has the time with all his courses," commented Crimmons, "but he's a really great coach." 
The women's team consists of 9 girls in the varsity 
boat and 11 novices including the coxswains. They use 
the same equipment as the men, namely shells, oars 
and the boat house. 
The girls' practice schedule is a vigorous one and 
~--"~ ·~~~




--" :; /!,. 1)'.\.l-4.~~. i ~. '/~.~! ..~.
; ··-::-r . . ; ..;:r· +}..¥.'-. • '-":. . --... 
.... -->:;:' ! ,, -/ ;:;._· ,, ~ .... \/1'-;. ' -... -·.' ,·,.
~ I ;-,~ .-~. ~:'· r_A .· ~' , ~ ~?:~ ~ ,. 

~-:--~-.--·· .i .. :_, . ; \.-~"'!;,_ ...Jr.._--~ 
---;. -.'"'.:;.;e._ ~ ~: • ~ _;+> ~--~· _, 
·~. ~ 

Wome~~~Ski, feOc;ng teams · 
sport yearly winning records 
~\ .. '~ «' 
By Theresa Stewart Staff Reporter 

The Women's Ski Team, now entering only its third season, has already won the Ohio Governor's Cup Race. Last winter, the women placed first in the meet, while the men's team placed second in its division. 
Stanley Ripcho, president of the ski club and the team, expressed the team spirit, "Women's or men's, it doesn't matter, as long as somebody won." 
Their first season, '72-73, with only 3 women, the team came in third in the Ohio Governor's Cup Race, and in the Wisconsin Governor's Cup Race. In '73-74, after ten girls spent part of Christmas break at a racing camp in Minnesota, came the Ohio Governor's Cup Race victory. The women's team missed third place by one point in the Michigan Collegiate Cup Race last year. 
Although participating indifferent races, the men and women skiers are considered one team under the charter of the ski club. Participating in the Midwest Collegiate Ski Association, the team travels together to different meets in Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin, Min­nesota, and elsewhere. 
With time trials a few days after Christmas break, 
the women's team selects five regular skiers and 
approximately 10 alternates. With three returning 
women skiers from last year, and a large turnout 
expected for the trials, "it will be a pretty good team 
this year", according to Ann Hawkins, now in her third 
year on lhe team. 
One possible problem stems from lack of money. 
The women's team does not receive any subsidy from 
the University, although the mens team received the 
usual club allowance. "Because of a technicality, the 
women's team was unable to receive funds until next 
year," Ripcho reported, "But fund raising activitie:>, 
such as hot dog stands and selling football programs, IS 
planned to supplement the men's funds, which is used 
for the whole group," he added. 
In competition for six consecutive week·tmds af~er 
Christmas break, the Ski Team has four two day trips 
and two one day meets planned for this winter. 
When asked how tough skiing is, Ann Hawkins said, 
"It can be pretty rigorous," pointing to the cast on her 
leg. 
The Women's Fencing Team, begun four years ago, also has a winning record. Participating in the Great Lakes Tournament for the first time last year, the ND women placed first by a wide margin, while the ND men placed second. 
One of the few teams combining ND-SMC women, the fencing team challenged five schools for a 3-2 season their second year. Last year they not only won the Great Lakes Tournament, but ended with a 13-3 season. 
"Because of combined practices with the Varsity's men's team, as experience and confidence grows, this year promises to be better than the last. Cindy 
Rebholz;, captain of the team, predicted. 
Practicing from four to six in the afternoon every 
weekday, the women prepare for their bouts against such schools as Purdue, Ohio State, Wayne Satate, Tri-state, and Michigan University. Although competition is usually between women, the ND team also took on the men from Michigan and Tri-state, beating the first and tying the second. 
"This was very satisfying to know we can keep pace, 
Rebholz commented, "In fencing, women are usually more coordinated and catch on the the foot­work faster, but the men soon surpass us, hitting harder, moving faster." 
Coach Michael DeCicco sees the ND women's 
program looming as a brighter star than the men's 
Varsity, "Because most women's te<tms are not as 
developed as the men's," he notes. "I want to credit 
the women for the job they've done, they are a close­
knit, competitive group of bright young ladies who 
have done well in fencing," DeCi~co said. 
Consisting of seven women, (3 ND, 4 SMC) who are returning from last year, and the freshmen par­ticipating in a callout planned for October 16, the team will sebetween four and six women to travel to out of town meets. 
"The Varsity men and the women's club schedules 
are now almost parallel, except for a Varsity Eastern 
trip over spring break," Rebholz stated. She projected 
that one of the goals of the club this year is mem­
bership in the National Intercollegiate Women's 
Fencing Association. "This will enable us to send two 
women to the Collegiate Championship meets in New 
York this year." 
demands much team dedication. Monday through Friday the varsity oars women rise at 5 a.m. and travel to the crew boathouse on the St. Joseph River. They are on the water from 5:45 to 7:15a.m. 
The novice girls practice in the afternoon. Practice is also held Saturday afternoons unless a meet is scheduled. 
The daily five-to-six-mile session consists of war­ming up, practicing techniques and full-power rowing. A normal spring is 1,000 meters, but the girls row · ' sprint speed for 2 miles. On Tuesdays and Thursd the girls also run stadium stairs, and the other dl they run three-mile distances. 
After the fall season, the girls continue working out three hours a week and run long-distance to keep in shape. Over March break the team travels to Washington, D.C. for spring training. Rowing morning and night out of the Georgetown boathouse on the Potomac River and running afternoons, the girls had a real workout and the experience was very valuable. 
Monica Vogel is a freshman and small enough to be a varsity coxswain. The coxswain gives the orders and keeps the girls rowing together. Vogel learned about crew at Activities Night and signed up. "It sounded like fun," she said. 
Her workout included rowing and long-distance 
running to keep her weight down to a maximum of 105 
pounds. Vogel doesn't regret joining. "The people are 
so good. It's a good organization," she remarked. 
Veteran Diane Rortvedt has been rowing since last 
spring. She sees crew as an escape. "You don't think 
about books. Crew is a fun way to forget studies," she 
stated. 
The coed group receives only $700, so the girls must raise money for equipment and for transportation to away meets. The girls are having a food booth at the Rice game which will sell popcorn balls, hot chocolate, rice krispies bars and s'mores. 
The girls are also painting an oar and signing it to be raffled off at the class of '49 alumni reunion. The alumni will sign a football for future raffle purposes. 
Both teams will continue to sell crew mugs this year. 
Last weekend the girls rowed at Michigan State and won by a wide margin over MSU and Grand Valley. Next weekend the team will be competing in Madison against tough opponents---Wisconsin, Nebraska, and Minnesota. 
On October 26 there is a men's crew race against the alumni and the novice team meets Grand Valley at home. Th varsity girls also decided to row in the im­portant "Head of the Charles" in Boston. This race race is three-miles-long and includes teams from all over the east coast. 
At first the girls didn't think they were good enough to row three miles straight. But after one rigorous practice, Coach Graham informed them they just rowed at full power for 2.8 miles and visions of th e Charles reappeared. The oarswomen are really psyched for this race. 
The team will learn the true extent of their abilities next week. _"The team the girls will be rowing 
against have more experience than our competitors 
last week," Captain Crimmons emphasized. "I'm pretty confident in the team," he said. 
From sweats and bandanas to champions, the Women's Crew Team should become a big part of the female tradition at Notre Dame. 



10 the observer Friday, October 11, 1974 
~~--~~~~-~~~~------------~~~
... 
Letters Ta A Lanely Ciad 
i remember the beauty of fire 
reverend rabert r:.riffin 


the plastic slickness of our culture 




• 
Monday evening, I came back with friends from a dinner that celebrated my birthday .There was a note awaiting me that said Bob Rieman had been killed in an accident a few hours earlier. '"It's im­possible," I thought tu myself. "People like Bob have too much life in them to die." But friends began droppong by . The news was true, they said: Bob Rieman was dead from an accident. "Incidentally," they said, "Happy Birthday." There was a new kind of specialness to the date of October Seventh; now it belonged also to Bob, and I wished with all my heart that it had belonged only to me. I thought of Bob walking through the Keenan-Stanford lobby with the little blind girl he tutored, and of the sadness she would feel, and it was dif­ficult to keep back the tears. At midnight, the Club O'Gill <Chez Darby) opened for the first time. There was a graduate student there who had seen the accident. He had touched the body and felt the pulse die under his fingers. Now, hours after the death, he seemed to need the physical closeness of people, as though afraid to go home and be alone with his memory. A group of Bob's friends from the Innsbruck program were 
there also, huddling together and talking. 
One of them said: "I know you can't solve 
the mystery of why it should have happened, 
but would you mind trying?" Again it was 
difficult to hold back tears, when I saw the 
grief of Bob's friends. 
On Tuesday evening, a memorial mass for Bob, I used the story (from The High King) of how Fflewdurr the bard had splintered his harp into firewood on a bitter, stormy winter night to keep his friends from dying of cold and exposure. Miraculously, the fire kindled from the ruins of the harp
~ burned all thorugh the night. Tht> flames had now spread to all the fragments. and as the harp strings blazed a r•,plody sprang suddenly from the heart of the fire. Louder and more beautiful it l!rew . 
I• 
and the strains of music filled the air, echoing endlessly among the crags. Dying, the harp seemed to be pouring forth all tht>songs eyer played upon it, and the sound shimmered like the fire. All night the harp sang, and its melodies were of joy, sorrow, love and valor, The fire never abated, and little by little new life and strength returned to the companions. And as the notes soared upward a wind from the south, parting the falling snow like a curtain and flooding the hills with warmth. Only at dawn did the flames sink into glowing embers and the voice of the harp fall silent ... Of the harp nothing remained but a single string...Fflewdurr knelt and drew it from the ashes. In the heat of the fire the harp string had twisted and coiled around itself, but it glittered like pure gold. 
Our lives are like Fflewdurr's harp, I said, 
The heart has its tunes, the mind has its music. When mortal life has finished with us, these are the melodies of our song before God, played from a harp string of the purest gold. In the choruses of eternity, nothing that our animal minds have known of truth, or that our hearts have loved as beauty, is ever lost. That is what I said, and I hope it is substantial enough for faith. 
Afterwards, I was sorry I had not added lines from Housman's "Athlete Dying Young": 
Smart lad, to slip betimes away 
From fields where glory does not stay 
and early though the laurel grows 
it withers quicker than the rose. 
Now you will not swell the rout or lads that wore their honours out, Runners whom renown outran And the name died before the man Close to the mind also were the insights of Masefield growing old: 
Be with me, Beauty, for the fire is dying; My dog and I are old, too old for roving. 
Man, whose young passion sets the spendrift flying, Is soon too lame to march, too cold for loving. I take the book and gather to the fire, Turning old yellow leaves; minute by minute The clock ticks to my heart; a withered wire Moves a thin ghost of music in the spinet. 
Only stay quiet, while my mind remembers The beauty of fire from the beauty of em­bers. 
Beauty have pity for the strong have power, The rich their wealth, the beautiful their grace, Summer of man its sunlight and its flower, Springtime of man all April i a face. 
"' 
So, from this glittering world with all its fashion, Its fire and play of men, its stir, its march, Let me have the wisdom, Beauty, wisdom and passion, Bread to the soul, rain where the summers parch. Give me but these, and though the darkness close Even the night will blossom as the rose. 
To be taken at noon from the business of life into the high ecstacies of heaven, with its possibilities of passion, can be a tragedy only in the eyes of the beholder. To think that life must have its fourscore and ten years is to forget that God may need a life still in the beauty of its fire rather than the beauty of its ambers. 
With thought based on reflections such as these , I avoided quarrels over Bob Rieman's death with the Fatner ot oeauty who shatters a life as easily as Fflewdurr splintered his marvelous harp, confident of the fire and music than the instrument can sustain. One of Bob's friends said to me: "Your words help a little bit in speaking of Bob. But what about the others who die in innocence, who never achieved his passion for life?" Thoreau, on his deathbed, was asked if he was prepared for the next world. He said: "One world at a time." I asked about the terms of being reconciled with heaven over the death of the young, can only reply: "One death at a time. That is all the heart can deal with." As other deaths come, knowing the details of the sum­moning, lean try to be reconciled ; but then, as now, I must insist, one death at a time, please, God. 
Bob was so alive, so curious, so anxious to experience, that at times it required patience to deal with him. He was a dif­ficult chap to meet at breakfast, if you merely wante to doze over the early cups of coffee. But I loved him because he was good and eager, bright and kind, thoughtful and gracious, inspiring and encouraging gentle and ~eautiful. Now, after three days,' when I realize that an only half-awakened man will never again meet the breakfast table cheeerfulness of the inquisitive lad it is once again difficult to hold back the t~ars. 
But nothing is ever lost--never! Not the least drop of ocean, the humblest speck of dust, The tulip bulb is ugly in winter, but April confirms it in glory. The grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies but its death brings forth new life. If the ea~th is so careful of its beauty, are there no cherished futures for the sons of heaven whose lives are like the songs and poetry our best hopes are made of? 
Bob Rieman, your silence at this moment does not frighten me of death. I remember the beauty of fire. That beauty, whose loss I mourn at vour funeral, is the best promise you could have given that immortality has overtaken you. 

A totally new kind of sculpture is hap­pening at the Notre Dame Art Gallery. Bill Kremer, a faculty member of the art department, is exhibiting very un­conventional compositions made of ceramics, wood, and canvas. His art is so powerful that it dominates the whole at­mosphere of the gallery. Kremer's one-man show, which opened Sunday, October 6, consists of ten pieces of large sculpture. The compositions are spread out over a large area, but just one of them could be placed in a bare room by itself and it would still control the environment. 
Six of the pieces are pure ceramic sculpture. Half of them are horizontal and the other half are vertical. They are ivory in color and provide a field for the various 
of the glazes. Two of the most recurring colors are a dusty blue and a deep shade of blue-green, and Kremer uses these two colors side by side to complement each other as well as to contrast. 
One piece gets away from this pair of colors with gently curving bands of pale green, yellow, aqua, and orange that follow 
bend of the sculpture itself. Another piece is marked by dark e:reen, 
orange and yellow stripes that are met at the bottom of the sculpture by a looping design. This design looks as if it were drawn on with lithographic crayon. Kremer uses parallel lines in other sculpture to emphasize shapes and delineate curves. 
Another unusual technique is rolling out a lump of clay until it is flat, and then pin­ching it onto another shape. This is exactly what Kremer does in the sixth of his series. The base is longer and thicker than the piece of flattened clay which is fastened to its top. The artist then used lines and colors that follow the shape that the extra piece created. The piece is an interaction if smooth and curving lines and tender colors. 
Two sculptures combine ceramics and wood. One piece, entitled Venturi, has two pieces of curved tubular shapes arranged in a somewhat parallel fashion on a wooden base. These tubes are almost touching at one end, then they flare out, implying a sense of direction. It as if the air is com­pressed and then suddenly shoots out with greater intensity. .. Laminated Curve is composed of tubes on a wooden frame. The clay is unglazed, so the surface is rough and unfinished. The 
by janet denefe 

other two pieces use no clay at all, only wood 
and canvas, but the canvas has the look of 
unfinished clay. Angular Parallel is two 
thin pieces of wood, covered with canvas, 
that are mounted diagonally on a wooden 
base. However, the sense of lightness which 
the airy canvas lines attempts to convey is 
violated by the cumbersome and over-heavy 
base. 
The last piece, approximately six feet tall, is a model of gracefulness. Kremer has successfully combined wood and con vas in a subtle curve which becomes intense in its length. 
Kremer's sculpture is minimal art. It is minimal in design and in color. He has subtracted unnecessary elements and leaves you with just enough linear quality and color. The designs are crisp and smooth and economical; they are not organic. They sparkle in the light. Kremer thinks they reflect the plastic slickness of our culture. 
His work is very tactile--people want to reach out and touch the shiny surfaces of the ceramics or the rough texture of the unglazed clay. The sculpture is par­ticipatory. 
For those of you who think the sculpture resembles bathroom fixtures, you are I
partially right. Kremer says he spent hours studying them and noting how every angle, every curve had a purpose. They, too, are minimal in design. This proves that you can learn from anything! 
Kr_emer is enthusiastic about clay as a ~/;' media. He used to make only teapots and \~ casserole dishes, but in graduate school he 1· 

~

came to the realization that clay doesn't have to be pottery; it is enough in itself. It is a responsive material because of its plasticity and it takes shape fluidly. Ac­cording to the artist, "Ceramic things have a tendency to give off energy. They generate color, as opposed to paintings, which absorb it." Kremer believes that "All good art is didactic. It teaches and we can learn from it. Art exists primarily to make a contribution. I am dealing with materials, forms, shapes, and processes, and these things make a contribution. My sculpture gives you something back." 

Kremer also believes that art doesn't have to be serious all the time. "Why can't art by fun?" Come to the gallery and you'll 
know that it can be. 


-------~~--~-~--------~-~­
P.O. 
Ticket controversy 
not waste money for games they thinking could be guided by
An Open Apology to Don Bouffard: thoughts like "I'm going to help
can't see.

Dear Mr. Bouffard, these students whether they want 
I would like to apologize to you it or not." The results could be
Mike Zengd

for the letter that appeared in the disastrous; it could lead to a Observer of October 8, 1974. 
breakdown in communication. On Tuesday night a letter con­********* They might even dismiss popular
cerning student basketball tickets opinion as being immature. But was read to the Morrissey Hall An open letter to Don Bouffard: we're fortunate at Notre Dame. Council, in order to receive t!J~ No oppression here--just ticket endorsement of the Council. Upon reading the conversation managers who are concerned Certain additions regarding the St. between Michael Desposito and about our educations: "You read Mary's ticket allotment were Don Bouffard in yesterdays Ob­the papers, don't you... ?" suggested. The letter with the server, I have to say that I was not additions was endorsed by the the least bit surprised at the tone of Dale of du lac Council with the intention of the letter. Such an attitude 247 Cavanaughpublishing the letter in the Ob­exemplifies the lack of concern server. that is constatnly shown towards 
During the rewriting of the letter the students. Why is it that we to incorporate the additions the students , who are already "paying tone was drastically changed. The through our noses" just to go here 
********* 
letter was reduced from a have to contonue to "pay through reasonable objection to the new our noses" just to attend the ticket policies to a personal attack. basketball games? Doesn't the 
An Open Letter to Coach DiggerI did not read the amended version mere fact that we go here entitled Phelps:before it was submitted to the us to some "priviliges"? Why is it Fact: freshman year .... 6 ­Observer and therefore I must that at Standford & U.SC. (similar 20.... Undying student supportbear the responsibility. private institutions) students Fact: sophomore year .... l -6atThe letter was supposed to have receive 50-yard line seats at the start.. ..again undying studentbeen a request for you to recon­football games and merely have to support.. ..NIT.... "We've only justsider (1) the 100 per cent increase pay a quarter for basketball begun .... " in prices and (2) the restrictive games? Why can't the students be 
Fact: junior year .... one gloriousallotment policies, both for Notre shown some deference around week atop the nation .... undefeated 
Dame and St. Mary's students. here? 
at home .... mass hysteria in up­While the objections raised were How is it that you can state that setting
valid, the method of presentation things have gone up 100 percent 
UCLA....UNQUESTIONABLE was in poor taste. increase lie? Where? STUDENT SUPPORTS .... "One 
How is it that you can state that man tells another .... " Rich Hogan it is "wrong " to pay $1.00 and Fact: senior year ... will faith­
Morrissey Hall President "right" to pay $4.00? What kind of fully follow the team on WNDU self-proclaimed moralist are you? radio .... As if the student's have done something illegal. Digger, is it worth it? Can UCLA
********** I was personally insulted by the conceivably be toppled again statement which said, in effect, the without the mass hysteria theDear Editor: officials don't care whether the students supplied? (Think back toThe recent announcement that students come and would rather UCLA at L.A.) Is it realistic toprices for student basketball that they didn't come because "we think that we can attain an NCAA
tickets have doubled this year is could make a lot more money." I berth without strong, vocal student hardly surprising. With the think with that kind of statement it support? It would be folly to thinkspiraling inflation rate, Notre is time to re-examine your that the head basketball coach atforced take
Dame was to this priorities Ask Digger whether he Notre Dame could not extend his 
move. I can see where they would rather have an arena half influence over the "powers thatfigured that $28 for a fourteen full of passive South Bend mothers be" to remedy the situation in game slate was a bargain. 
and fathers, or an arena full of some way, shape, or form. Digger,What Notre Dame failed to take screaming, delirious students? when we lost the NIT, the studentinto account was that students 
Ask him. body was at the circle to meet you.
deserve a bargain basement rate In closing I would like to ask In addition, over the past three
because of their support for the what does this school cater to: the years, student support was alwaysteam. I would hate to be the team money-hungry desires of a few there, even in the cold~ even after athis winter and see that this in­"aloof" individuals or the feelings loss. Now we're asking you to crease had driven away all of the and concerns of those who are support us. Is it worth it to lose the student support. 
intimately involved here? student support over theI for one love basketball, but outrageous 100 per cent increase inwon't pay for a season ticket that I Ben Marshal ticket price?? And what of the
will only half use. Only 6 of the 14 freshmen who'll see
never thehome games are on Saturdays. 
********** team because of a decrease
The rest of them are during the student allotment? There'sweek when schoolwork is the main nothing we can do, Digger; weword. It's foolish to buy a ticket Dear Editor: need your help
which you can't use because of To Fr. Hesburgh, Mr. Macheca, school. Fr. Burtch ell : Mike Savino '75 
This, I suggest that two seasonn What is the role of ad­Don Trayer '75 ticket packages be offered. One ministration leadership? If it would be for the six Saturday includes anything in the range of games <Princeton, U.C.L.A., being responsive to student ********* Xavier, South Carolina, Lasalle, feelings then I feel our university Dear Editor: and Dayton) and would cost $6. staff is doing an excellent job.
The other 8 games would go for $16. Really keep it up! From all the The members of Howard Hall 
This would insure that there other student opinions I've heard, wholeheartedly support the letter would be strong student support of they're all in total agreement. to the editor written by our the basketball team at a price Everytime some campus problem counterparts from Morrissey which everyone could afford. The emerges, you're the first ones to concerning basketball season 
tickets for this season.
second package would attract only rally behind the students. Not onlythe most avid fan and would insure verbal support, but just the We are also asking that the 
University immediately recon­the athletic department that plenty general feeling that there's sider the 100 per cent increase and of t-ickets coud be sold to the somebody who really cares what tthe restrictive allocation policies. 
general public. we think. 
We further propose a campus-wideNotre Dame would make money I wonder what it would be like if boycott of season tickets unlessoff of this program and more we had to deal with an oppressive positive and direct action is takenimportantly the student would be administration. They might be by the University.
able to afford a season ticket and found guilty of indifference. Their Howard Hall 
-·'111111------·--·-......RUIIHIUIIIIHHIUHIIII~ 
calls •1n the night 

r••••n--1111111111 fr. biII toohey 
I never get a call in the middle of the night without remembering that one some years back in Washington, D.C. 
I was working as a prison chaplain at the National Training School for Boys (affectionately known as ••The Hill'), a federal correctional institution for boys between the ages of 15 and 19. It has since been condemned, and replaced with a new institution in Morgantown, W.Va., named the Robert Kennedy Youth Center; but for years countless Holy Cross men had worked there, some as seminarian-assistants and some of us as priest-chaplains. 
Every so often I would get a call, either from or.e of the prisoners who had been paroled, or, as in this case, from one of their friends who had been given my name. 
The voice on the line said: "I got your name and number from Steve. He said I could call you if I got to D.C.; he told me you'd help me out. But you've got to promise you won't call the cops or anything." I agreed, and in ten minutes (with pretty fair luck in following my directions) he arrived at our house. But he wasn't alone. There were four of them-two boys and two girls. They were looking for food and shelter for the night. 
Since it was about 3 in the morning and they were so beat, I didn't attempt much beyond providing something to eat and the necessary bedding for them to be reasonably comfortable sleeping in our recreation room. They did say that they were from Iowa, and were taking a little vacation-trip to see our nation's capital. I hadn't noticed that the car they were driving had Pennsylvania plates. I discovered that the next day; and a lot more besides. 
I had noticed the night before that one of the girls, "Mary beth", seemed rather frightened; and when she told me her story, it wasn't hard to see why. I had trought the four of them breakfast and was making my way back to the kitchen when Marybeth slipped out of the room, on the pretext of going to the bathroom. She caught up to me and blurted out her 'nightmare. 
She hadn't known the two guys at all, really. Her girl friend had dated one of them occasionally, and had asked her along "on a little ride." At first she hadn't protested when it turned out this was going to be more than a little pleasure cruise around town. "Mter all," she said, "I had nothing to stick around home for; my folks are divorced, my mother works all the time, and doesn 'tcare what the hell I do, anyway." 
"So," she continued, "when the other three said they were going to head east, I didn't care. And it was fun for a while, too; at least until I began to find out some things. First of all, the car we were in was stolen. Then the two boys made us shoplift for food ... and other stuff that they sold for expense money. We made it as far as Pennsylvania before the car gave out; then Jimmie just pushed it over a cliff. We tried hitchhiking, with no luck, until we came upon a guy fixing a flat tire. The two boys offered to help him ...But when the job was finished, Jimmie hit the poor guy over the head with a beer bottle, knocking him unconscious. He then dragged him over to the side of the road and rolled him into the ditch. I went crazy. I started screaming and crying ...All I could see was blood, and that poor guy lying in the ditch. Jimmie and Ken dragged me to the car, and we took off...Then we came here. You gotta help me get out of this; I can't stand it anymore." 
When we returned to the room, Jimmie announced that they would be leaving soon. I said that was fine but that Marybeth had decided to stay, and that I was going to help her get home on her own. I asked the other girl if she wanted to stay also, but she claimed she wanted to stick with the guys. 
I told them I felt obligated to keep my promise about not turning them m; but asked for their assurance that they would return to Iowa without further incident and then be sure that the car got to the police so it could be returned to its owner. They agreed. I lent them some money for gas; we made sandwiches for the trip; and then, since we had a gas pump on the property, I told them I'd fill up their tank to get them started. As I was doing this, Marybeth, who had been standing by, said she wanted to say goodbye to her companions. She stood at the driver's side for a moment; then, the next thing I knew, she opened the back door, quickly slipped in, the car started, and they were gone. There I stood, holding the gas pump, thinking how beautifully I'd been had. 
I got a car and tried to follow them; but this was to be no chase, as in "Bullitt": I lost them almost before I got out of the driveway. 
The call came earlier this time -at 6 o'clock. It was Marybeth, calling from the local Greyhound station. When I arrived, we sat over coffee, while she explained the last few hours. No, she couldn't figure out why she did what she did. "All I know is, I was confused and frightened; when Jimmie told me to get in the car, I just did it. We drove around D.C. for a while, then stopped, then drove some more. They tried to talk me into going with them; but I begged them to let me off ... that's how I got here." 
I bought her a ticket, and she caught the 8:15 bus; she thanked me as she climbed aboard and promised to send the money for the ticket. Itwas finally over. But not quite. I -did hear from her; and 
she did send at least part of the ticket-money. She wrote periodically for a year or so. Things were still rotten at home; she quit school; and hated the job s{ie had, clerking in the dimestore. Her girl friend was in a home for delinquents, and the two boys had been arrested. The man in Pennyslvania got his car back, and he was okay. 
In her last letter, she wrote: "I really wonder when things· will 
change for me; when I'll meet someone who cares; when some good breaks will come my way -or if they ever will." I often wonder what happened to Marybeth-and all the others, like her, I met over the years. I've felt so futile, not being able to do more, and yet, because of it, more compassionate and concerned (I hope) with other calls in the night. 
• 

-
------------------~--~-~-~--------­12 _t.:_"h:__:e=-~o:...::b~s:::_e-=-:.r...:v-=e"-'r'--_____F_r_i~ay, October 11, 1974 
SMC discusses alcohol guidelines 
by Pattie Cooney Contributing Editor 

With all the commotion surrounding the liquor law of In­diana, many St. Mary's students are wondering exactly how it ef­fects them on campus. 
According to the student manual no alcohol is allowed in the residence halls. Persons 21 years of age and older may have alcohol in their rooms but it must remain sealed. A revision of the liquor rules is under consideration. 
The St. Mary's Student Assembly passed a resolution that would permit2I-year-olds to drink in the residence halls. "My only concern is the possible lega I ­ramifications, which are being checked into right now" said Stevie Wernig, assistant tothe vice president of student affairs. 
"Authorities could get us for contributing to the delinquency of minors, if the resolution doesn't have safeguards in it. We must be able to control the situation within the state law,"she explained. 
The resolution modifying the alcohol guidelines must be ap­t proved by the Student Affairs Committee, Student Affairs
I 
Council and Dr. William Hickey, acting president of St. Mary's College. 
St. Mary's has already ex­perimented in giving their 21-year­misplace the confidence you have cooperated and a good time 

in them," commented Dr. Mary was had by all," Cannon said. Alice Cannon, vice-president of During the Octoberfest on Studdnt Affairs. Wednesday, October 16, a "Beer 
"The senior picnic is a perfect Garden will be set up in the cof­example," she noted. "We took feeshop of the SMC dining hall. 
the necessary precautions like "Beer will be confined to the checking IDs and keeping the beer 

old students a chance to prove September. "I honestly helieve (continued on p. 13)
in a controlled a~a. Everyonethemselves. The senior picnic that if you place trust in students sponsored by the ND-SMC senior and they believe in your trust, they classes was held at St. Mary's in will take the responsibility, and not 



McCarthy to speak Monday 
by Andy Praschak Staff Reporter 

Abigail McCarthy, author, lecturer, and former wife of one­time presidential hopeful, Sen. Eugene McCarthy, will appear at Notre Dame for a series of discussions and lectures on Monday, October 14. 
A public lecture by Mrs. McCarthy, entitled "The Challenge to Authority," is schedule for 8 p.m. Monday, in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Mrs. McCarthy is the author of "Private Faces, Public Places," an account of her life with Sen. Eugene McCarthy and the events surrounding his candidacy for the presidential nomination in 1968. In 

GODSPELL 

SAT. OCT. 19, 7:00 & 9:30P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM S.M.C. 
addition to her book, Mrs. McCarthy is also a contributing editor for Commonweal, New 
Republic, and The Atlantic Magazines. 
DHUillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli 
Night Editor -Bill Brink Ass't Night Editor -Mary Janca, Val Zurblls 
Layout -Martha Fanning, Mary Reher, Dan Sanchez, Bob Brink, Dennis McNellis 
Copy Reader -Jim Eder Day Editor -Val Zurblls and Ken 
Girouard Editorials -Ken Girouard Features -Norman Bower Sports -Greg Corgan 
Typists-Anne Peeler, Barb Haug, Janet Carney, Tom Modglin, 
THEATREIU
101

Michele Arrleh, Rick Huber 
2:1 s Indiana University • South Bend 

Compugraphic Operator -Bob 8:1 s tickets

tlltJ 
PRESENTS

Steinmetz 
pm $1.50

Picture Screener -Albert Circulation Manager -Paul 
ATHURBER CARNIVAL 

DeBacco 
Tickets at October 10, 11, 12, 18, 19, 20

Ad Layout -Bob Tracy, Whales 
IUSB box office 
north side at

Night Controller -Dave Rust 
or call 237..4396 
greenlawn 









HOMECOMING 
PLENTY OF FOOTBALL & HOMECOMING PACKAGES AVAILABLE AT STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 
FRIDAY 
PEP RALLY 7:00 


GORDON LIGHTFOOT 8:30 
~· 
ICKETS AVAILABLE AT STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE & A.C.C. 


THE 

W:INERY 
2426 LINCOLNWAY WEST-MISHAWAKA, INDIANA TELEPHONE ~ All the Finest European Cheeses Gift Boxes of Cheeses & Fancy Foods 
Oriental Cooking Ingredients 10 % Cheese & Fancy Food Discount to Faculty & Students French Bread & Croissants New York Cheesecake Greek Olives 



SATURDAY 
N.D. vs•. RICE 1:30 
CABARET PARTY ST. JOE, MICHIGAN BUSES LEAVE CIRCLE BEGINNING AT 7:30 $6.00/COUPLE MUSIC BY: 
TALISMAN & WIND 
!=======CASUAL DRESS COME AS YOU ARE 
Directions to Silver Beach are available -at the Student Union Ticket Office 
Friday, October 11, 1974 the observer 13 ­
Decisions reduced to halls 
WfEKEND JOB 

Party rulings: concern at SMC 
(continued from p. 12) coffeeshop and may not be taken upstairs or outside. No one will be 
allowed in the coffeeshop who isn't 21, stated Wernig. The Octoberfest has been approved by Wernig 
Cannon and Hickey, and is spon­sored by the SMC social com­mission. 
As the situation stands now, any large party involving a whole hall or any place a large num&r of people are expected, approval for the function must come from Student Affairs "When things are not blown out of proportion, more can be accomplished," noted Wernig. 
For smaller functions individual hall councils may set up their own rules within the college guidelines. "We try to reduce decisions to the lowest levels, as close to the student as possible. It's better for everyone if the students them­selves have more imput and responsibility," Cannon asserted. 
"Decisions ideally should be made on the wing, section, floor or hall level," Wernig agreed. An example of this policy is the hall­quiet regulation. Previously hall­quiet was the same for everyone; now the hours are established by individual sections. If the noise 
from  one wing disturbs those  on  
another,  the  problem  will  be  
handled by those involved.  

The major issue some are concerned about is the regulation of parties. The only hall that has set up more specific party guidelines is Le Mans. "Actually we haven't done anything dif­ferent, we're just clarifying already existing rules said Brenda Lardy, LeMans hall rector. 
"For instance," she con­tinued, "during parietals all men must be escorted upstairs, which holds true for all halls. The only addition the Hall Council made was that people having a large party send someone down to the desk to help the girls on duty sign the 
visitors in," explained Lardy. 
Plans for a large party (section 
party) should be made known to all 
residents in that section. "The 
main reason the council passed the 
guidelines is to help girls who don't 
speak up for themselves when 
there is a large party in their 
section," observed Lardy. "I 
don't want to be in the middle, if 
someone has a complaint. All 
objections should be worked out 
before the party, by those in­
volved," she said. 
The relaxed atmosphere came about due to a change in the philosophy of the administrators. Ten years ago and even four years ago, the guiding principle. among administrators was m loco , parentis This was true of many colleges and universities especially private ones. Gradually this attitude relaxed to some degree, but has not been removed entirely. 

"Those of us in Student Affairs at St. Mary's subscribe to the Student-Development Theory," Cannon said. "In implementing this philosophy we must create a climate for students to have more responsibility, to decide things at the grass roots level," she ex­plained. 
"Right now we are working on a Residence Hall Program to bring classes and other activities into the dorm, Wenig said. "For example various activities could be carried on in different dorms during the week. The faculty and students could get to know one another in a more informal at­mosphere,"she further explained. 
"Another important part of the theory is respect for students' privacy. We are not here to spy on them or dictate to them," Cannon pointed out. "Again if some conflict arises ideally we would like to handle it on a lower level rather than impose a regimen of behavior rules," she said. "A good deal depends on the respect for and confidence in the students. So far our students have shown they are worthy of this respect," Cannon concluded. 
Sex Offense Stall formed and presents seminars on rape at St. Marys College 
by Trish Terlook 
Staff Reporter 

The Sex Offense Staff (S.O.S.) of the Women's Committee on Sex Offenses has handled 45 rape reports with victims ranging in ages from three to 83, during the past eight months. 
S.O.S. 
presented an informal seminar entitled "Rape Crisis Intervention'', in McCandless Hall Tuesday, October 8 at 6:30 p.m. The seminar was given by "Gail," an S.O.S. representative. "Gail" stated that she preferred to keen her surname confidential because women active in groups such as 

S.O.S. 
have often become rape targets. 


initiated in 1973 in response to local concern at the statistics of sexual crimes. It. was incorporated by the state of Indiana in May of this year as a non-profit organization. 
Members of the group have worked in coordination with "Hotline" since February 19 of this year when they took their first calls. 
S.O.S. depends entirely upon volunteers, who are required to go through a 10-week training period concerned with the trauma of rape and the correct counseling of rape victims. After completing the program, volunteers are usually put on call. 


When "Hotline" receives a call reporting a rape they put the victirn in contact with the S.O.S. volunteer on call, or, if the victim seems willing to go to the hospital, the S.O.S. volunteer will meet her there. The Sex Offense Staff began with 13 volunteers, but the number has now decreased to 11 volunteers who are on call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. 
Three more seminars given by 
S.O.S. are scheduled for October 16 in LeMans Hall, October 24 in Holy Cross Hall, and November 4 in Regina Hall. All seminars will 
begin at 6:30 o.m. 
Indiana's Largest Lake Developer Needs Several Ambitious Seniors Or Grad Students To Work Weekends Thru October Near Lake Wawasee. Gas Paid. Free Housing. Minimum $50 CALL C. STONE (219)636-7189 
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
A representative of the Admissions Office will be on campus Friday, October 18, 1974 to discuss the Master of Business Administration degree program with students interested in man;Jgement careers. 
Appointments to meet with James F. Filgas, Director of Student Services, may be made through the Placement Bureau. 
The MBA degree program is a two.year course widely recognized as preparationnfor careers, in the management of business, government and other organizations. 
College graduates with majors in liberal arts, humanities, social science, engineering, or other fields are eligible to apply if at least one mathematics course has been included in the undergraduate program. 

COME TO THE BULLA SHED AN> BRING A FRIEN> 
mass & dinner every friday 5 pm 
Indispensable••• 

PARKA COAT $25 
This coat does it all...for you. You could get along without one, but for this modest price why fight it? In navy, burgundy or green, sizes S,M,L,SL. 
... 0 N THE CAMPUS NOTRE DAME· 
,• 


----~~­

Lawsuit threatens six 0-C students 

(continued from page 3} 
fulfill the terms of the contract. 
These terms involved a sub­stantial renovation of the upstairs of the house, which the students were to inhabit. The terms of the lease spell out in detail the obligations of landlord Milliken in this renovation, and they state that all workon the house alluded to in the lease was to be completed by the time the students moved in August 23. 
The six students and Milliken 

'-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=.:_,:th.::r.:e:.e..:o:f..:th:e:_:si:x~s=t:ud:e:n:ts:..::in:v~o:lv~e~d 
r 
I.U.S.B. STUDENT ASSOCIATION PRESENTS IN CONCERT 


THE ASSOCIATION 
+ 

DAVID FRYE 
SUNDAY NOV. 3 
8:00P.M 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS NOW ON SALE I.U.S.B. BOX OFFICE M-F 9-S, 6:30-8:00 
DAY CARE BENEFIT CONCERT 



TORONTO DANCE COMPANY 
presents 




MODERN DANCE 
THURSDAY OCTOBER 17 

8:00P.M. 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORiliV\, S.M.C. 
both agree that the renovations were not completed by August 23, nor was-it completed by the time the students decided to move out and find another home off-campus. 
But Milliken, in an informal meeting with Tallarida and the six students held Sept. 23, the University argued that his former tenants had not "given me enough time" to fulfill his contractual obligations. Also present at the meeting were Mayette Tallarida's assistant Tom Wilson, student legal aid representative Joe Cassini, student body president and vice president Pat McLaughlin and Frank Flanagan(respectively) and student government off­campus commissioner Stan Cardenas. 
Milliken's and Mayette·s' 
argument at that meeting centered 
on the issue of "reasonableness," 
which they held to be a key idea in 
the dispute. 
"Delays of this sort are not 
unusual," sayd Mayette-"In other 
contractual agreements I've seen 
dealys of several months." 
The main issues in the dispute, 
summed up Mayette, were 
"reasonable effurt vs. negligen­
ce," 'lnd the question of good faith, 
on thepart of landlord Milliken. 
Mayette added that "I know the 
standards of this community," and 
he said that if legal action were 
taken by either party, "I believe 
we would win." 
University attorney Philip Faccenda holds the contrary view, said Tallarida Wednesday Fac­cenda, who heJU a meeting with 
and Tallarida, told them that he thought they had a "good chance" of winning, according to the housing director. 
Mayette's case will rest on the advantage of the landlord over the tenant under Indiana law, said Tallarida, where the relevant statues date back to the last century. In Tallarida 's words, Indiana's statutoryposition on the landlord-tenant relationship is that "the minute you walk into the house, you're accepting it," which 

releases the landlord of liability, he said. 
At the Sept. 23 meeting, Milliken proposed just that, telling the students that they had told him in August that they were "pleased" with the progress made on he house up to that point. Mayette charged that by living in the house the students had accepted the house as it was and "waived all right" to demand a speedy com­pletion of the renovation. 
Tallarida said yesterday that in their countersuit, the students will charge that "There are other things involved which take the issue out of that perspective." 
These "other things" would include a special responsibility a landlord has towards student tenants to make the house reasonably habitable and secure for students (during the summer months the house in questions was twice burglarized), and the fact that Milliken detailed his won responsibilities in renovating the house in the lease. 

Mayette, who argued that the students extended his client and extra period of time in which to 
complete renovation, accused them of being "precipitous" in moving out of the house. The students had first consulted Joe Cassini of the Legal Aid Ser­vice offered by Notre Dame's Law School, who advised them as to their liabilities and possible courses of legal action, but did not recommend any particular course of action to the tenants. At the Sept. 23 meeting Milliken 
and Mayette offered a "com-· promise," which was in effect that the students either move back into the unfinished house or financially satisfy landlord Milliken, who claimed that he stood to lose more than $1800 if nothing was done. 
The students rejected the offer as "totally unacceptable" and the meeting broke up soon thereafter. 
" "Everything depends on what Mr. Mayette does now," said Tallarida yesterday. "Whether he'll sue or not is up to him; I tried to deter him from it over the phone during the half-hour conversation we had. However, if he does sue as he says he is going to do, (the students involved) will bring a countersuit.'' 
In that case, added Tallarida, the Office of Off-Campus Housing will remain in the dispute as an "amicus curiae," or friend of the· court. 
"I'm going to fight along with them right down to the wire," promised Tallarida. "Should they win, it would have great reper­cussions for all our off-campus students." 

THE ROMA 
PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD 
Your Host Frank Anastasio 
'A PIZZA YOUCANNOT REFUSE' LIVE BANDS 0 N WEEKENDS 
Call 234-3258 For Delivery 219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtown At North End Of River Bend Plaza 
AFTER THE GANE VISIT INDIANA'S LARGEST RESTAURANT 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT THE TUES,WED,FRI,SAT SUN 

WOODEN KEG 
1609 South Main 289-4824 
~-----~---­
TRAVEL RESERVATIONS 
TICKETING 
~ 
::f_fJ 
GRUENINGER TRAVEL' 291-4810 Mon-Fri 10 • 9 Sat. 10·6 Sun. 12 • 5:30 
UPPER LEVEL 
SCOTTSDALE MALL 
HARQ.D MEDOW 
USED CARS AND TRUCKS 
•
LaFayette at LaSalle Phone 233-2139 


~ ----------------------------­
15

Friday, October 11, 1974 the observer 
---~--· 
Rice rally 
(continued from page 16) 
winner, is one of the night's featured speakers. 
Also speaking will be sports announcer Kyle Rote who will be made an honorary member of the Notre Dame team during a half­time ceremony at Saturday's game. Rote is being honored because of his exploits performed while playing for .SMU against Notre .Dame. In the season finale, he carried the ball for 115 yards, passed for another 146 kicked punts that averaged 48 yards, and scored three touchdowns in a 27-20 losing effort. 
Closing the rally will be senior fullback, Wayne Bullock and defensive line coach, Joe Yonto. The Rice Rally emcee will be Tom "Madog" Madden, of premed fame. Come show the Irish team we're still number one in spirit this Friday night, 7 o'clock at Stepan Center. 
Phelps slates BB tryouts for Tuesday 
Tryouts for the 1974-75 varsity basketball team will be held Tuesday October 15. 
All interested persons should report to the ACC basketball arena before 4:00. Players should bring their own equipment. 
Junior class 
Kubiak gathering 
The junior classes of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are sponsoring a social gathering this afternoon. The get-together will be located at Kubiak's Tavern in Michigan, between 3:30 and 6:30 pm. 
Augie Grace, president of the ND junior class said that the purpose of the "Happy Hour is to provide an acti\ 1ty· 121" the students after they finish their classes. "There are so many students that just sit around while waiting for the weekend to begin," he said. 
Grace went on to say that this activity is only a "one shot deal," stating that it will be evaluated to see if there is any reason to con­tinue. 
Pitchers of beer during the "Happy Hour" will cost $1.50, a 
savings regular organized  of price.  one transp dollar There ortation  off is to  the no the  
tavern.  

WANTED Need 4 tix USC game-call 1132 
Need 2 GA tix to Miami game. call 683-5362 after 6:00 pm 
Needed desperately 2 GA tickets to Miami. Call Tom 8398 
Wanted; 4 Army GA tix. Call John or Kathy 282-1568 
Help! The clan is making its first­trip-ever to ND. Desperately need GA Pitt tickets. Call 3665 
Need 4 GA tix for Pitt game. Call Mary Beth 4704 
Desperately need ride to Boston area for Oct. break. call Jim 8439 
Need 2 GA tickets for Miami game. call Jim 3805 
Need ride to Boston tor Oct. break. call Tim 8591 
Need ride to N.Y. City weekend of Oct. 11, 12, 13. Will share ex­penses. Call Dave 1197 
Desperately need two GA tix for Army. Call Rahj 1612 
Wanted: veteran-student for work­study position under V .A. program. $250.00 for 100 hours. Apply through N.D. personnel office or call 237-4415 
need ride to N.J. tor Oct. break-­badly--will share expenses-call Kit 6972 
Wanted: 4 Rice tickets, student or GA. Call 4774 
WANTED: 1 RICE TICKET or else. Call Me Now 284-4371 
---------------&­
Need 2 gen'l admission tickets to Pittsburgh game 11-16. Greig Siedor 288-4751 (office) 277-0091 (home) 
Need 5 or 6 Rice tix. Please call 1254 
Wanted 2 GA tickets ror Army. Call Mike 232-2773 
Need ride to Mpls . St. Paul or Madison for Oct. 25 break. Call John at 1184 
Need 2 GA tickets tor Pitt. Tom 288-2613 
Need 4-6 tixs for any home game except Army--will trade w-4 Army tixs. call Becky 8154 
Ride wanted to CALIFORNIA during Oct. break. Call Tom 3191 
FOR SALE 
For Sale-5 GA tix for Rice-call 8017-$8.50 
For Sale-2 GA tix for Rice. $8.50­call 277-0019 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE: 2 GORDON LIGHTFOOT TICKETS. ON THE FLOOR' ROW 4 SECTION C $6.50 EACH CALL T.E. 287-3578 
4 LIGHTFOOT 4 SALE FLOOR 272-1031 
For Sale 6 string acoustic guitar with case-excellent cond. $75. call Tom 1409 
TWO TIX TO GORDON LIGHT­FOOT-BEST OFFER­ORIGINALLY $5.50 tix. call 684­0574 
Tl 2550 calculator call Fred 288­5646 keep calling 
FOR SALE: Sylvania TV. B&W, 23 " for $40. In good condition. call 5166 or 287-6804 
NOTICES 

Notice: NO rugby-Fighting Irish vs. Palmer College Sunday Oct. 13 
1:00 behind Stepan 
Interested in singing Renaissance music informally once a week? All voices needed. Competent director esp. needed. Write Box 219 Lewis Halt. 
HOCKY GAME: THE CAMPUS VIEW CRUNCHIES VS. THE ALUMNI DOGS. TUESDAY OCTOBER 15 AT 10:00 AT THE A.C.C.FANS INVITED. IT'S FREE! 
Can't find the book you need? We special order books at no extra charge. We will even try to find you a used copy. Pandora's Bookstore 622 N. St. louis Blvd. 
WANTED: 2 TICKETS TO MIAMI GAME. CALL DR. MAISON, AT 272-9895 BETWEEN 7:00 AND 9:00 pm 
Will do typing term papers ate. call 233-4484 
G.W.M.seeks male com­panionship. call Tom at 288-2203 
Pittsburgh Mid Semester busses­those who missed the sign up on Sunday can still sign up this week by coming to 1118 Grace Hall or ca II John 8251 
HASH BROWN BLUES BAND­NOW AVAILABLE FOR DAN­CES, PARTIES AND PRE-GAME PERFORMANCES. CALL 272-9895 AFTER 7:00 FOR IN­FORMATION 
$ Irish Lampoon is now accepting articles, stories, cartoons. For info, call 272-8734 between 9&11 :30 pm 
CLEVELAND CLUB: NOW TAKING SIGN-UPS FOR FALL BREAK BUS LEAVING OCT. 25th and RETURNING NOV. 3rd in Rm. 229 Holy Cross FRIDAY NIGHT. FOR MORE INFO CALL JIM AT 3155 
GORDON LIGHTFOOT TICKETS ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2ND FLOOR LAFOR­TUNE. HOURS THIS SEMESTER ARE 12:15-5:00 MWF and 11:00­
1:00 & 2:30-5:00 TT 
Legal problem. but no money? 
N.D. Legal Aid can help call 283­7795 M-F, 1-4 pm 
TICKETS FOR THE OCTOBER 20 AEROSMITH & MAHOGANY RUSH CONCERT AT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFECE, 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
JUNIORS: START YOUR WEEKEND OFF RIGHT. THE JUNIOR CLASS OFFICERS AT NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S ARE SPONSORING A HAPPY YOUR AT KUBIAKS -FRIDAY AFTERNOON BETWEEN 3:30­
6:30 PITCHERS WILL BE $1.50 
Need a ride tor semester break? Silson driveaway has cars going to many spots in the U.S. and your only expenses is gas. For info call Jim Scott 1694. Due to an abun­dance of cars going to Miami, special offers including partial or complete gas allowances are being made. Check it out. 
FOR RENT 

For rent: 1 single $55 mo includes rent, utilities 1 blk from grocery, laundry, bakery. Call 232-2773 
For Rent: Modern executive 2­bedroom cottage located on 30 wOOded acres of St. joseph River frontage and Orehard Hills Golf Course. Winterized cottage also features large fireplace, wall-to­wall carpeting, fully equipped kitchen and riding horses. Perfect for out-of-towners on Notre Dame football weekends with only a 20 minute ride to the stadium. $150 per week. caII 616-695-6043 
Rooms for rent-1 or 2 singles O.SC.-1021 DeMaude. Convenient location, good neighborhood $55 mo.-incl. utilities. Call 232-2773 
LOST & FOUND 

Found: car keys at D'Shag Tues. afternoon. Call 6917 Found-one electric Timex watch and one gold bracelet. can be picked up at the Lost&Found counter. Mem. Lib. 
Lost-Gold ring. Initials JMA Call 3336 Big Reward 
Lost; Whittenauer gold-ladies wristwatch. Lost between Morris Inn & Dillon Call 7181 
Lost in S.D. Hall basement; silver class ring EJM 76 Reward 1770 
Money Found. give amount and condition-8843 
PERSONALS Roberta stone still exists. 
Pietro, What the hell is ether Day? Oc­tober 16? Raw sex? Cecadence? Nirvana? a Gas? 
M.T.O.B. COME HOME A.J.M.F. 
MS YOU MS-ERABLY me 
To the best kissie of 201&203 Happy Birthdya 
Collect a Birthday kiss today! Call Maria Cardenal now! at 4722. for an appointment 
To Cince, Happy Birthday The Big Five 
To ex-rebel no. 20: Good luch as Irish no. 43 North Yankee 
Kathy Berg, Love is sharing red silk sheets 
Dear O.B. Happy 18th Birthday. 1 will remember you in my prayers, 
The Nun 
FLOPSY: You can play in my ring & bo~ anytime Kathy of Baylas 
FLOPSY: I didn't think boxers struck below the belt Kathy of 6:30 AM 
HAPPY 30th BIRTHDAY BRUCE. 
WE'LL  STILL  TRUST  YOU,  IF  
YOU  JUST  TAKE  IT  AS  IT  
COMES. IS IT EASY?  

Dear Daddy, Would you punch me if I told you that you have a bad temper? 
Dear Kedric from Ft. Wayne, I love your name an admirer 
MEN-WOMEN Jobs on Ships! No experience required: Excellent pay. World wide travel. Perfect summer job or carier. Send $3.00 for in­formation SEAFAX DEPT.G-13 P.O. Box 2049 Port Angeles, Wash. 98362. 
20 knows who FLOPSY is!!!! 

Cinema 75 presents 
SIDDHARTHA
; 
52 9 8 0 U.S. 3 1 No rt h 2 7 2-5 2 2 0 directed by Conrad Rooks presents 
Thursday and Friday
frigbt proa. 

October 1 0 and 11
overland Stage co. 

everything from down-home 8 and 10 pm 
luegrass to contemporary rock 
BEGINNING OCTOBERS-3 SHOW Engineering Auditorium N!GHTLV FROM 9:00-2:00 
Admission $1.00 Patrons Free 
SUNDAY FROM 8:30-12:00 
~ 
1 
1 
1 t 
1 
j 
l 
! 
t 
j l l l I I 
1 
l 
.. 
16 _ _.t~h~e~~o~b::.:s=-e=-:..r--=v--=e=-r:._________:Friday, October n, 1974 

Al's Owls signal end of Big Ten 
by Bill Brink firecrackers, broken blackboards 1915 But it is the first trip to South and starters pistols, brings his act Bend for both the Owls and 

I<'ollowing a stunning loss to to South Bend tomorrow af­Conover, and it promises to make Purdue two weeks ago and a ternoon, and relax is not a word for an exciting visit. narrow 19-14 victory over the included in Conover's vocabulary. After a slow start, in which they 
Michigan State Spartans last Unfortunately for Parseghian dropped their first two decisions to Saturday, Notre Dame coach Ara and his Notre Dame team, the Houston and Cincinnati, Rice Parseghian and his Irish players flakey head coach also brings with bounced back two weeks ago with are not exactly shedding tears over him his greatly improved Rice an inspired effort against LSU, the 
finishing the Big Ten segment of Owls, and the two squads willclash Tigers needing a last-second field their schedule. tomorrow at 1:30 EST in Notre goal to gain a 10-10tie. 
And even after battling through Dame Stadium. "I think our young team is an unusually tough fall stint with This is the third meeting bet­beginning to come around, Now their Big Ten opponents, the Irish ween the two teams, the Irish we are a football team," said can ill-afford to relax. For AI having defeated Rice 28-0 last year Conover. "We're on our way. 
Conover, complete with his bag of in Houston and 55-2 way back in Our guys feelthey can get out and play with anybody." 

There is little argument over this statement from Parseghian. "They're a dangerous team," says Ara, then adds "and of course AI Conover won't hesitate to utilize 
any offensive or defensive philosphy if he thinks it can help him to win." 
The Irish Eye 

• Whatever offthe field gimmicks ~::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;;;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.Football plcks .Conover's philosphy produces to try to inspire his team up and over The excitement of college football stems, in part, from some of the the Irish remains to be seen, but he great rivalries that develop from year to year. has a number of capable per-Pro football misses this in a way. There are no comparisons in the NFL formers on the field. to the traditional Notre Dame-USC, Michigan-Ohio State, Alabama-LSU The big man is Cornelius and Oklahoma-Nebraska clashes. And this is just to mention a few. Walker, the Owl's All-American There are many more to be considered, and although some lack the candidate at nose guard. The 6-2, attention, none lack the fierceness of ,head-to-head,competition. This 250lb. senior co-<:aptain was a 
weekend there are a number of interesting sectional rivalries. Kansas consensus All-Southwest Con­meets Kansas State, Michigan faces Michigan State, Texas battles ference selection last year, and has Oklahoma, UCLA takes on Stanford, Texas A&M and Texas Tech get anchored the Owl's defense so far together and, for a little variety Wisconsin travels to Ohio State. this year. 
.Saturday1 begins week No. 7. "Walker, without question, is an 
Rice at Notre Dame: The Irish have yet to win a game at home All-American candidate," says while Rice has yet to win a game. The Owls tied LSU two weeks ago and Parseghian. "He roams all over there's no telling what AI Conover will do next. The Irish are out to make the field, and has exceptional up for the rude treatment they received in Houston last year. Only they'll speed and quickness." do it on the field. ND by21. Walker is joined on the defensive 
Michigan State at Michigan: This continuing battle for Michigan line by another standout, tackle football supremacy has been a lost cause for the Spartans of late. It Jody Medford. Junior star Rod should be just as bad this time. The Wolveriines had a scare last week Norton leads the linebacking and they're out to devour some Spartans, helmets and all. Michigan by corps, while the young secondary 
20. is headed by sophomore safety 
Baylor at Arkansas: The Baylor Bears have been surprising. The Randy Pie!, whose lll tackles and 1 Razorbacks may be looking past this one to their big SWC meeting with interception were a prime Texas next Saturday. Tomorrow's game is in Fayetteville and that may ingredient in the superb defensive help the Porkers. A little grease might help them slip by. Arkansas by 3. effort against LSU two weeks ago. 
Kentucky at Auburn: One of the baffling questions this season con-"They have a great deal of cerns what exactly Shug Jordan has at Auburn that has helped him stay quickness and have played rather undefeated. No one seems to know, except perhaps Louisville, Chat-steadyfootball defensively," com-· tanooga, Tennessee and Miami. Kentucky shou·d be the next to find out. ments Parseghian. "Our job in Auburn by 17. moving the football is going to be 
Illinois at Purdue: The Illini made the fast fade last week against just as difficult as trying to stop California. Purdue has been fading all year, except two weeks ago in Rice." South Bend. Who will futily fade first tomorrow? Should be Purdue. Trying to stop Rice means' Illinois by 7. trying to defend against wide-
Kansas at Kansas State: K-State. hasn't played anyone worth men-open, multiple offense Conover has tioning yet while the Jayhawks upset Texas A&M last week. The game is devised for his Owls. "What at Manhattan which is a minor plus for State. Unfortunately they're concerns me about the Rice of-faced with a lot more minuses. KU by 14. fense is its multiplicity," says 
Minnesota at Indiana: Gophers and Hoosiers, what a combination. Ara. "They run just about Minnesota will rebound from last week's loss to Nebraska by an-everything." nihilatingindThis will be good practice for the Hoosiers. Their next three Leading the Rice attack is junior games are against Ohio State, Wisconsin and Michigan. Minnesota by 20. QB Claude Reed, who took the 
Missouri at Nebraska :The Tigers have been so inconsistent lately that controls for the first time against it's almost impossible to decide what they'll do. Two weeks ago Missouri LSU, com pieing 12 of 23 passes for beat Arizona State 9-0. Last week they lost to Wisconsin 59-20. They must 119yards. He has an excellent pair have left their defense at home. Nebraska should help them achieve of targets in receivers Ed Lofton some level of consistency this week by beating them again by about 40 and Kenneth Roy, who hav~· points. . combined for a total of 290 yards In 
Wisconsin at Ohio State: Would have been the upset of the week If the receptions so far this season, game wasn't being played in Columbus. The Badgers are contenders and Scrappy Gary Ferguson, the Ohio State doesn't like competition. Nobody should get the Buckeyes Owl's leading rusher this season, mad. Still it should be close, but look for Ohio State by 10. 
West Virginia at Pittsburgh: This game should be interesting. The Pantherswere upset, to say the least, last week by North Carolina. West Virginia handled Indiana easily but that's not saying much. Nonetheless the Mountaineers have anexcellent ball club. The Panthers shouldn't suffer another letdown though. Pitt by 10. 
Southl'rn Cal at Washington State: The Trojans are still on vacation. They could play the Cougars in their sleep and still win. SC by 24. 
Stan£ord at UCLA: Both teams kick off their Pac-8 schedule with this game and it'll be no runaway for anybody. The Bruins may have found themselves and the Rose Bowl race starts out even. UCLA would like it in Pasadena and tomorrow they'll get off to a good start. Bruins by 14. 
Texas 'Tl'ch at Texas A&M: This will be a good game and it's on national television. Tech comes off an upset win while A&M is recovering from an upset loss. The game is at the Aggies home in College Station, but there'll be plenty of Red Raider fans. The game is a tossup. From 
here it's Texas A&M by one . 

... 
Florida at Vanderbilt: The Gators are undefeated and ranked. Doug Dickey has them doing some pretty exciting things, but tomorrow should be closer to downright ddull. Florida should mop up. Gators by21. 
l'pset of the Week: Texas over Oklahoma: This one's in Austin and no doubt "Daddy D" will have his Longhorns ready. Oklahoma is devastating and most likely will be too much for Royal. In Texas, however, they do things big, and this would be the biggest. Texas------­maybe. 
Last week: 10 of 15, 67per cent. Season 42 of 60, 70 per cent. 


will start at halfback. His partner in the backfield will be fullback John Coleman. The Owl's most exciting runner, however, is speedy sophomore James Sykes. The dazzling kickoff return specialist was second in the nation last year in kick returns as a fresh­man. He has chalked up three 90+ yard returns in his college career, including a 97 yarder three weeks ago against Cincinnati. 
They all come together to form Conover's very open, varied of­fense. "We're going to have to prepare on a very, very broad basis in anticipation of this Rice team," says Parseghian. 
The Irish, on the other hand, appear to be using an offensive style completely opposite to that of the Owl's, as evidenced by their conservative, run-oriented attack in last week's victory at East Lansing. 

"We were playing a more con­servative game, buttoning up so we wouldn't make any first half errors," says Parseghian. With the ball in the hands of fullback Wayne Bullock most of the game, the Irish did just that. Bullock se t 
a  Notre  Dame  record  for  most  
carries  (36)  finishing  with  127  
. yards for the day.  

"Wf: played more fundamental football," said Ara, "Running the ball inside until we could get Michigan State to react to Bullock, and the go outside with our half­backs." 
The return of Art Best at half­back helped that cause. After missing two games with a broken jaw, Best made a brief but vital appearance, contributing some excellent runs at crucial times in the game. "I'm hopeful, with a good weeks work, that Art will make a significant contribution in this weeks game," says Ara. 
If the Irish stick to the game plan exhibited last week, the dynamic combination of QB Tom Clements to split end Pete Demmerle may againremain idle, but the threat they pose will surely concern the Owls. Demmerle, the Irish's leading receiver, and the nation's sixth leading receiver contributed nevertheless with excellent downfield blocking. 
The defense remains intact, with last weeks star, linebacker Greg Collins, trying to lead his companions on defense in the difficult job of stopping the multiple Rice attack. 
On paper, that job does not look overwhelming Rice has ac­cumulated only 563 total yards on offense this year, less than a third of the Irish total. But AI Conover's philosophy does not appear on paper, not even on a blackboard, so the Irish will have to be prepared for anything. 

Rice rally set lor seven tonight 
This year is the twenty-fifth anniversary of Frank Leahy's 1949 National Championship, and the Rice pep rally has been set aside to honor that undefeated, untied team. All the members of the squad have been invited to attend the rally as specials guests. Leon Hart who was co-<:aptain of the '49 team and a Reisman Trophy 
(continued on page 15) 








