-~ ~ -~ 

On The Inside 
Tony's Shoe Shop • • • page 3 
Campus Briefs ... page 7 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. V Ill, No. 72 Tuesday, February 5, 1974 
New rules vague on promiscuity 
Unwritten rule to stand 
• 
by Patrick Hanifin do the others rules the new provision merely states arisen under a is the Dillon Hall affair last the University's belief on a question of ethics but Thanksgiving. The effect of the confusion on that
Staff Reporter 
does not limit the freedom of those who disagree. case is still not known. 
New rules and regulations issued by the ad­2. According to Macheca, the University's According to Greg Smith, the Dillon student's ministration may drop all prohibitions on position is "well-known and always has been. There defender, "he wasprosecutedpartly on that rule as it premarital sex. According to Dean Macheca, should be no confusion." This rule was never stands. But the administration combined this with a "There is no specific prohibition in the new rules." written down in previous years. But this year, Dr. parietal's violation which was easier to prove. The 
He will continue to prosecute anyone caught in Faccenda explained, the Central Staff decided to student was suspended because the parietal premarital sexual union, however, on the basis of include it "because after certain events last year, violation was aggravated by the sex rule violation." the University's "long-standing unwritten particularly the Lewis Lewis Hall case, some ad­Faccenda agreed that that was the situation. "It rule,"although Macheca also stated that the new ministrators thought the University hadn't made is very difficult to prove a sex rule violation unless it rules "are the only rules standing." itself clear." is done say at high noon in the main quad. But the 
Macheca's statement came as an attempt to 3. The rule has so many different possible rule was used in conjunction with the parietal clarify the University's recently released rule on meanings that any prosecution under it would deny provisions." sex, which has caused some confusion. Six dW~rent students their right to "a clear statement of all The new regulations state that the Dean of interpretations have been suggested for the new types of actions or behavior that should be con­Students can issue a directive having the effect of a 
rule which says: sidered a violation of University rules." Faccenda, regulation at any time. Accoridng to Macheca "this 
"In our deep concern for the growth and when asked about this possibility, said, "I would not is usually an elaboration on an already existing rule moral development of each member of the want to say yes or no until some defendent uses that in response to a rash of cases, say for instance University, we cannot refrain from challenging as his def~nse before a hearing board. It would be continual thefts from the bookstore. But it might be each other to develop attitudes towards human up to them to decide." The clarity of the rule may used to clarify this rule if it is needed, however, as sexuality that are authntically Christian . . . be further clouded by the next three in­of now the rules stands as stated." Because a genuine and complete expression of terpretations: 
love through sex requires a commitment to a 4. The statement is of an ethical position but 
total living and sharing together of two persons anything contradicting that stand violates it, in marriage, the University believes that whether the disagreement is in actions or merely in sexual union should occur only in marriage." words. 
The interpretations: 5. The rule binds the administration to "develop 
1. Since the rule includes no stated prohibition as Christian attitudes" which according to the in­
troduction is to be done by "establishing a climate . . . in which ... moral convictions are developed." But are suspension and expulsion allowed since these remove students from that "climate?" 
6. The rule is a rpohibition and covers faculty r.1embers and administrators as well as students ·since it applies to "each emember of the Univer­sity." 
The rule itself went through several revisions before it became effective last November. It was first made by the Central Staff during their reconsideration of the whole set of regulations during the summer. It was then revised by the SLC along with the other rules and passed on to Fr. Hesburgh who ratified them in November. 
According to Macheca the delay in publication was due to several factors. "By the time we wrote the forwarding letter and printed up the copies it was exam week and we felt it would be better to wait until the students returned from break. Then we decided that the cover letter was not specific enough, so we wrote a new one, printed it up andre­st a pled all the booklets." 
Whatever the exact meaning of the rule, it is, said Macheca, "the one that applies now even if we need to change it later." The only case that has 
Shilts announces ideas lor o-c housing 
by William Murphy accept more responsibility." come in or old ones are rented. "ridiculous." The average price should say how long you will be Staff Reporter Shilts also noted that most Lists of apartments like Turtle here, stated Shilts, was $50 a piece r·enting;the amount of the rent peravailable houses have seen many Creek, Notre Dame, Crestwood, per month.Shilts also pointed out month and on what date paymentThe results of the computer years of family use and frequently and the projected Campus View that prices will tend to increase 1s due. 
lottery run by the Office of Housing need attention. apartments will also be ready by because of the rising price of fuel "I expect", added Shilts, "that 
were made known last Friday In Shilts stated that a good starting February 15th." If you aren't satisfied with you the new calender will lead to ten 
the wake of the results, Fr. James point for finding off-campus Shilts stressed perspective month leases. It is an issue you
housing, Shilts warned that aShilts, director of off-campus housing is by contacting someone renters should make sure the place written agreement would reduce can bargain about." 
residence, has offered the you might know already living off­they finally settle on suits their your flexability to move later. Some landlords, according to
following list of suffestions to the campus. They may be able to put needs. Is it large enough? Does it Shilts, are even asking for one year
Observer in an attempt to help you in contact with their obey houding codes for ventilation 
"We urge you, however, to steer leases. If you run into such a these students forced off-campus landlords about possible rentals and saftey? Does the roof leak? away from totally oral agreements situaztion, Shilts suggested that
during their search for housing. for next year. Shilts believed this How about the utilities? Is there a and get as much as you can in the right to sublet be included in Types of available Housing would be advantageous to teh need for and exterminator? Is it writing. A lease guarantees you a the lease. Shilts also said that a
Shilts separated available off­perspective renter because a good close to bus lines, groceries and damage deposit in standard
place at a stable rent and should campus housing into three picture of the quality of the housing laundries? Is parking available? 
cover enough of the rental procedure, equal to one mont's
catagories; rooms, houses and and the reputation of the landlord Is is a place where you can study? to misun­and the should
problems eliminate rent, that lease 
j
apartments. could be drawn by the tenants. And most importantpy, is the price 
derstandings with your landlord," specify what the deposit covers"A room", said Shilts, "is Shilts also announced that lists right for what you are g~~ting? said Shilts. and when it is to be returned. ' 
rented in a single family dwelling 
were being prepared through the "I don't have sufficient in­Shilts suggested that each Shilts pointed out that the leasemaintained and occupied in part Off-Campus Officer Campus of 
formation to publish a fair price student discuss the need of a lease should state who will be respon­by the owner". According to the size and price of facilities scale," said Shilts. B "But the with the landlord and strongly sible for repairs. If this is not
Shilts, it has the advantage of whose owners have contacted the urged a careful reading of any explicit students could end up
prices should depend on the sizem1mmum responsibility but University. These lists will be and age of the house or apartnient, document before signing it. The paying expensive maintainancedoesn't allow much freedom in the available after February 15th in on whether utilities are included, 26th Amendment makes all bills. 
use of the house. Room 315 of the Admisistration on the number of bedrooms and the \students, over 18, personally "It is also wise to agree"A house," said Shilts, "allows Building. 
number of occupants." responsible for a contractual beforehand on penalties if yourplenty of freedom in the way it is 
"We try to keep these lists up to Shilts noted that some of the agreement. rent is late, on the landlord's policy used but you have to clean it up and date," said Shilts, "adding and students are being charged by the Shilts pointed somethings that toward guests and any expected
care for it, pay more bills and subtracting houses as new offers head, which he termed should b~ contined in the lease. !! code of beha_vior," said Shilts. 


r-------------~---~---­
Tuesday, February 5, 1974
l. the observer 
1. w.t 
~ I·, ·.· ·, .. '.t.'·
'; ',I 
warld briefs 
Wa~h_ington <UPI> -President Nixon, anticipating strong opposition from senators and representatives, handed Congress Monday a $304.4 billion budget which set a record for peacetime. He said the troubled economy and the energy crisis might force him to spend even more, in order to had off broad unem­ployment. The budget drew sharp attacks from Congressional Democrats, who called it dangerous and inflationary. 
Washington <UPI) -Egil Krogh, Jr. gave himself up to federal marshals Monday, to go off to prison for the Watergate­related burglary of Daniel Ellsberg's psychiatrist. The former White House aide hugged his wife, bade goodbye to reporters and reiterated previous statements that he knew of nothing that would involve President Nixon in his crime. 
Washington <UPI>-The White House announced Monday that President Nixon and Russian ForeigQ; Minister Andrei A. Gromyko talked about a possible new presidential summit visit to Russia this year. Deputy Press Secreatary Gerald L. Warren could not tell newsmen whether the timing of such a visit was discussed during the. two-hour Nixon Gromyko meeting in the Oval Office. But presidential aides said they expected the trip woul~ take place in June. Gromyko arrived Monday in Washmgton by plane from Cuba, where he and Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev had conferred with Fidel Castro and other Cuban officials. 
At awareness weekend 
Third YIOrld concern stressed 
by Jack D'Aurora Staff Reporter 
The Third World encompasses two thirds of the world's population, yet most people are scarcely aware of it. The Third World is that portion of the world that lives in poverty, disease, malnutrition and political ­economic oppression. It is those still developing majorities of Africa, Asia, Latin America and our own U.S. ghettos, Appalachia and the like. 
In the hope of creating a greater awareness as to the suffering of those living in the Third World, the campus ministry sponsored a Global Awareness Weekend ending Sunday. 
"The weekend addressed itself to the Gospel imperative of justice in the world, and is one of a series of weekends for the entire campus, which addresses itself to the spititual and developmental needs of the students," explained Br. Joseph McTaggart, assistant director of the campus ministry. 
Four Maryknoll priests who had recently returned from their missionary sites in foreign lands conducted the week-end. The priests were Fr. Dennis Mahon and Fr. Phil Bowers, the Philipines, Fr. Peter Brien, Tawain, and Fr. Ken Moody, Venezuala. 
"We want to make students aware of the situation today and explore personal values con­cerning taking action to helping the Third World," said Mahon. 
McTaggart is not convinced.that people are aware of the problem. "I realize that a general awareness of the suffering in the world exists, but not to the extent that one understands the role of the 
U.S. in the oppression of the Third World countries," he commented. 
The situation was outlined by the priests. If the world consisted of one village with 1,000 people, only 330 would be affluent while the remaining 670 would be poor. 63 would earn over $2,000, 82 would earn $1,000-$2,000, 855 would earn under $1,000 and 495 would not even make $100. 
Sadly enough Americans spend over one billion dollars on dog food and related items and $2 billion on toys annually, noted Mahon. 
"We're looking at things with a different attitude. We're asking what the responsibilities of the 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester ($1.• per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second clus postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
44556. 
strong to help the weak are, and what we aren't doing," explains Mahon. 
"We're looking at the oppressive structure of the strong which is contrary to Christian values," he continued. 
"The oil crises has increased our awareness from the economic point of view. Some of the economic problems have some pretty strong moral implications," added Bowers. 
"Our purpose is not to depress people, but to make them un­comfortable," says Bowers.'' "The talent, ability and power that the people at this university have is the number one resource for the solving of the Third World problems." 
"Hopefully awareness won't stop 
with this group, for situations 
throughout the world are 
resolvable if dimensions are made 
clearer. But there's a great non­
interest in the problems of Asia, 
South America and the other 
countries," continued Bowers. 
According to McTaggart, "the 
weekend is successful if the par­
ticipants' consciences are affected 
in such a way that as they pursue 
their professional degrees they 
maintain the awareness that 
there's a helluva lot of oppression 
',n the world, and that we as 
citizens of this country are directly 
responsibili for a major cause of 

"As our graduates become C.P.A.'s and trustees of banks, lawyers,etc. we would hope that they function and operate out of that Gospel imperative which categorically states that the strong must help the weak " continued McTaggart. "Ma~y Notre Dame graduates will hold powerful positions and can make a big difference in where power rests, whether or not it is shared equally among the haves and have-nots. "' 

~--~------­
an C1U11JR1S l:aday 
2:45pm-film, kenneth clark, civilization series, film 9, "pursuit 
of happiness," audio-visual theater, cce 4:OOpm -lecture, afrotc lecture series, library aud 6:OOpm· meeting, ladies of notre dame meeting, library aud. 
7:00 · 12:00pm mardi gras, games and entertainment, $.50, stepan center 
7:30pm -lecture, contemporary issues in business and economics series, "is there a computer in your future: how ~:~I ideal with that big brain?" by mr. george j. hach, carroll 
Celebrate your Mardi Gras winnings (or console your losings) at 
Nickie's 
3 • 12 oz. cans Old Milwaukee $1.00 (12-12) 
DON'T FORGET FREE POOL 2 -6 PM 

220 W. Marion -Elkhart 
Serving Michiana's Music Community for 25 years Special Student Discount Bring your student ID 
T<lm McMat10n General Agent 
l1i:ta -~~t 

'Tearafter vear, ~eme~ter I after ~emc~ter, the CollegeMaster' from Fidelit\' Union I jfe has been ttie most accepted, most popular plan on campuses all m:er America. 
Find out wtn. 
Call the Fidelitv Lnion CollegeMaster· Field Associate m your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend , Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 
.·~-"
::~' 
..:;:~ 
. '• 
... ' , 
~ '
•
Cbllege~95ter® 
I : • 
~----·---------------------­
\~ {'._"f , .....• -..-·r~r.'?-~ .. ,.,... ~f(·~·r r .,.,.J .41' •.: d() ,_...J, {,: ~\ 
Tu~~d;v·.·· F~b~u-a~~-5:..197; · · ----·'tlie· observer······· ·3· · 
Tony Sergio •• 
by Gary Allietta Staff Reporter 
Some people say that success is measured by the degree of a person's happiness in his job. If that philosophy is correct, then the most successful person at Notre Dame may be Antonio Sergio. 
Most people won't recognize the name, but almost everyone knows who he is. And if you have ever stopped at Tony's Shoe Shop, you won't soon forget him. 
For the past three years, Tony carried on business as usual in his shop behind the Ad­r.,inistration Building At the end of last semester, though, the University decided that they needed the space that Tony occupied, so they asked him to f.1ove. 
To obtain space for his new store, the University 
renovated the Barber Shop in Badin to make two 
iong, narrow rooms, one for Tony, one for the 
barber. Although his new shop is more in the enter 
of campus, at first Tony didn't like the location. He 
told a friend, "It looks too much like a sausage." 
But Tony has managed toadaptto his new store and 
now considers it "Home" 
When you first walk into Tony's, it's like entering another world. A little bell over the door announces your arrival, and Tony steps up with his always­friendlygreeting. Even his clothes are cheerful, the red-and-white striped shirt and apron now so famous at the dining halls. "Ed Price got the idea 
from Pe," revealed Tony. 
The personality of the shop reflects the per­
sonality of the man himself. The walls and floor are 
"busy," just like Tony always is. If you look behind 
counters or on t.op of shelves, you may find anything 
from shoes and jackets to a hockey glove or a golf 
bag. Tony will repair almost anything made of 
ieather. 
Happiness is saving soles 
Observer lnsit;~ht 
Shoe strings, belts, watch bands and bottles of shoe dye clutter most of the wall, and posters cover any 
remaining open space. A long bench in the middle of the floor serves as a storage bench for old shoes on one side and a catalog counter for new shoes on the 

1ither. However disorganized it all may seem to the commons, to Tony, everything is in its place. That includes the buttons, which are in the cash register. 
Originally, Tony lived in Calabria, Italy, where he 
worked r-1ainly as a cook. Nine years ago he came 
to the U.S. to live with his uncle in South Bend. After 
about a r.10nth here, he moved to California and set 
up a shoe business there. 
Tony just didn't like it in California, though, so he 
returned to South Bend and bought out his uncle's 
shoe business on the Notre Dame campus. 
Since taking over, Tony has had several other 
offers, both as a chef and shoe salesman, and for a 
considerably higher pay than he has now .But he has 
turned them all down. 
"I iike to be my own boss," he said. "I can do that 
here. I plan to retire in this place." Why is a man as 
young as Tony so sure about the 1·est of his life? 
"I iike being here. It's the people, not just the­
r.1oney. The football coach, the hockey coach-they 
aU come in and talk to me like a friend. I'm 
surrounded by people with more education, but they 
treat r-'e the same as them." 
Tony also likes helping people. He'llstopworking 
!o sew a button on your jacket, help you pick out a 
special heel for a special pair of shoes, or even just 
chat for a while. Somehow, he still manages to fix 
60 to70 pairsofshoesa day, too. 
Tony doesn 'I run a shoe shop to get rich; he runs it 
'o Peel people and help them, and that makes him 
happy. His light-hearted philosophy and 
professional viewpoint hangs on his wall by the 
door. 
We doctor shoes 
Heel them 
Attend their dying 
and save their soles. 
Response to dissatisfaction 
Questions answered about ND-SMC shuttle system 
by Judy Peterson Staff Reporter 
Widespread dissatisfaction with the present shuttle bus system has been expressed by students on both campuses. In response to this feeling, Mr. Timothy Poley, Assistant to the Coordinator of Analytical Studies, clarified some much debated points. 
First, Poley stated that there is a scheduled time for breaks. They should be taken at the library circle from 9:15PM -9:45PM. During the day and on week ends, 
Gas thieves surprised by Security 
By Tom Brennan Staff Reporter 
The energy crisis and the sub­_sequent closing of service stations 
on Sundays has added a new 
headache to Campus Security. 
Security forces apprehended three 
youths siphoning gas at 10:45 p.m. 
Sunday in the D-2 student parking 
lot. Security Chief Arthur Pears 
reported however, that the owner 
of the car declined prosecution. 
A television missing after the UCLA game of Jan. 26, from the basement of Breen Phillips, was reported to security over the weekend. Kathleen Cekanski, rector of B.P., would appreciate any information leading to the recovery of the set. 
ACAPULCO! 
SUNNY 
0 
breaks are covered by the South Bend Transportation Service to insure constant service. Since night service from town has been discontinued during the week, the break period is not covered at this time. Occasionally, if there is a heavy flow of riders, drivers have been requested to either delay or omit breaks. 
The shuttles are checked three nights a month by Poley, who admitted that, "although this tends to have a halo effect, occasionally I have dropped in unexpectedly and seen some route changes which we really did not appreciate." 
Bus schedules which give the times and points of departure are available from the bus drivers or from the individual halls. The average running time between campuses is ten minutes for the local shuttle. 
The cost of the shuttles is shared equally by ND and SMC. The gas shortage has not affected the buses since the schools have a negotiated fee with the South Bend Tran­sportation Service of $9.75 per hour, an increase of $3.25 over last year. Student fares, which do not contribute substantially to the cost, were not increased because it would be necessary to charge between $.18 and $.21 to subsidize the buses. 
Poley summed up the ad­ministration's position by saying, 
Attention: Juniors 
Appointments for Senior Yearbook Pictures 
may be obtained 
by calling 3557 from 9-1 or· 2-6 starting today. 
Or go to 2-C LAFORTUNE during san:-e hours. 
'I tf r, 
"that our purpose is to accomodate the students. We want to make sure thay they are getting the full benefits of the service." 
Students have suggested that drivers check more carefully to make sure everyone is on and to adhere more rigidly to the 
timetable. Joan Dadman, a fresh­man at SMC, feels more buses should be run to and from special events to accomodate the heavier loads. 
Complaints or suggestions may be forwarded to the Ombudsman or to Mr. Poley, whose office is located in room 320 of the Ad­ministration building. 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF FEBRUARY 11 Sign-up period begins Mon., Feb. 4 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 207, Main Bldg. Interview times must be signed for in person. Hours are 8:00 to 5:00p.m., Monday thru Friday. The Placement Manual gives additional information regarding interview procedures. 
FEB. 11 Actlon/Peace Co!P~/~·-All degrees and disciplines. Hamilton Standard--B,M in ME, EE. ~cules Inco;pDra!e~·-B,M in ChE, B in ME. Internal Revenue Service--BRA. Marine Midland Bank-Western··B in Econ,Govt,Acct,Fin,Mkt,MBA. Reilly Tar & Chemical Co--B in ChE, Chern, PhD in Org.Chcm. Reliance Electric Co·-B,M in EE, ME. Texas Instruments··B,M in EE,ME,MElO,Met,EG Sci,EG Mech,EG Phy Wallace Business Form·-BBA. 
FEB. 12 Amoco Oil Co··B,M in ME and ChE, B in CE. 
A. B. Dick Co--B in EE, ME, MBA (with Bin EG). Firestone Tire & Rubber·-B in ME. Firestone Industrial Produ.:ts·-B in ME,MEIO, ChE, ChPm. Firestone Steel Products··B in ME, BBA. Foster-Forbes Glass Co--B in AL and BA. Northern Indiana Public Service--B in EE, Acct. Travelers Insurance Co--BBA, MBA(with Bin Mgt and Mkt), Uarco Inc·-B in AL, B,M in BA. 
U.S. Corps of Engineers--B in CE. 
FEB. 13 Amoco Chemicals and Oil·-B in ChE. ~ontinental Can Co--B in all disciplines, MBA. 1~. R. Grace & Co··B,M in ChE, ME, CE, B in AL. 
M. W. Kellogg Co--B in CE, ME, B,M in ChE. ~oledo Edison Co--B in EE, ME. llestinghouse Elec. Corp--B in MEIO, B,M in EE, ME, MENO, Met. 
FEB.l3/14 l'irestone Tire & Rubber--8 in AL, BA. 
FEB. 14 ~etna Life & Casualty··B,M in all disciplines. Babcock & Wilcox Co--B in CE, B,M i'n Met, ChE, ME, EE. Continental Can Co--B in Acct, Mkt, ME, ChE, EE. Hallmark Cards, Inc--MBA, B,M in Math. 
U.S. Army Materiel Command·-B,M in ME, EE, AE. 
FEB.l4/l5 Cont. Ill. National Bank--B,M in BA, Econ,Math,Comp Sci. General Electric Co--B in AL, BA, Math. 
FEB. 15 Bechtel Corp··B,M in CE, ME, MENO, EE. Irwin Management Co--B,M in BA. Procter & Gamble Co··B,M in BA,Comp Sci,ChE,EE,ME,MEIO. Kurt Salmon Associates--B.~ in ME, MEIO, MBA(with Bin EG). 
'Si111110ns Company--8 in Mkt., -:; ,·.'-:·,; ......... ._,. 
-----~ -~ 
~---~-~ ~----~­
Tuesday, February 5, 1974
the observer 
The ND libraries: 
Waiting in the line for funds 
by Joseph Abell Managing Editor 
This is the tenth in a series of articles by The Observer examining in depth each area considered by the Committee on University Priorities. 
Today's article deals with the budgetary problems and future outlook of the Notre Dame Library. 
plained the situation of books and serials as a matter of what the Library considers more important, which at the present time, is serials. 
This concentration on serials is due mostly to timing. Though book prices will remain the same whether the library snaps then1 right up or waits a few years, serials gain in value as the months pass. That problem, plus the fact that the average serial is in print for only 3-4 months, as compared to 5-6 years for most academic books, compounds the situation, usually years. In the fall of 1972, he said, a program was started in the College of Science and Engineering with an ultimate goal of streamlining the serial list. Sparks claimed that the library saved over $6,500 last year from the program. 
The Colleges of Arts and Letters and Business begin the program this year, and Sparks is optimistic. Viewing the basic responsibility of maintaining a reasonable serial list as that of the various academic departments, he praised the Notre Dame 
would follow salary cuts), he said, boasting that Notre Dame is one of the few libraries that have not terminated positions to provide book money, unlike many other libraries. "We still have (all staff) slots open in the library," he said. "We've done well to keep our heads above water." 
Other plans 
Another program begun recently by Sparks is designed to cut down on books 
'There just isn't enough money' 
forcing the library to put off its book-buying and concentrate on serials that will otherwise be lost. The library will not lose money on the books it waits to add to the collection, but the backlog of unbought books only gets larger and larger. 
Currently, the library allots 49 per cent of its book budget to the acquisition of serials. (The book budget is 30.5 per cent of the library budget, the rest of it going to library salaries and incidentals). The Committee criticized this much spending on serials, many of which it said were used only sparingly. The Committee recommended that the serial list be culled in some way, cutting out the surplus and seldom-used subscriptions. 
One program in progress 
Sparks said that such a program of sifting through serial lists has been going on for two acquired by the library from various university presses. Formerly, Notre Dame was under an agreement with a book jobber that guaranteed that the library would receive every book published by the university presses in the agreement. Such a plane is called a "blanket order." 
"We've let the blanket order lapse," Sparks said, explaining the action as one of many possible remedies to the budget problems. "The program was too ex­pensive," he said. 
The library is currently under negotiations for an "approval agreement," which would provide the library with the same books from the university presses, but would also allow an option to return books that were unnecessary to the library's needs. 
In addition to beginning a culling of the serial list, Sparks also outlined another plan to cut costs by making more officials aware of the problems. He said that for the first time this year, cost sheets for library materials, including monographs, have been sent out to each rtment chairman. 

, the committee insisted that it not take away from the current book acquisition budget, but supplement it. 
Sparks enthusiastically received the plan: 
"The interest from such an endowment would enable the library to get ahead {on the ARL minimum budget.)" 
But elsewhere, things don't look so bright. James Murphy, assistant vice-president for development, said that there were no current pledges for book acquisition in the works and that he could not see any in the near future. He said that University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh has designated book acquisition and the University Computing Center as top priorities in donation drives for this year, but he, Murphy, was not optimistic about 
response. 
"There's always a dichotomy between what the University wants and what people want to give," Murphy stated. "Book acquisition is not one of those things people get excited about. Most want to give buildings.'' 
Sharing facilities: outlook bleak 
Finally, the committee recommended that the library staff, in conjunction with the library faculty, look into the possibility of sharing materials with other area colleges. 
"Exchange with St. Mary's is a reality," Sparks said. "As far as services are con­cerned, we act as one library." However, he added, whereas St. Mary's College belongs to a coalition of area schools, the Northern Indiana Consortium for Education, Notre Dame does not, a situation presently blocking any moves to share facilities and resources with schools like IUSB, Goshen College and Bethel College. Though somewhat pessimistic in attitude, .Sparks, 
said "We have to try to look into UJC possibilities," hinting that the individual 
. departments and the university ad­ministration should take the initiative. said. · Faculty Library ~~!~··~~~PS~h~Rl'ook into 
University funds to increase the budget as suggested (by COUP)," Br. Ryan aaid. "The budgets are already set and to increase the library one would be to take away from other budgets-probably academic-which are also inadequate." 
He said there were only two main sources for funds: a tuition increase, which he said the University only wants to do when necessary; and an endowment. 
"I would hope we can increase the amount to the library, but it is a matter of priorities," Br. Ryan said. "Every area has its own particular needs." He cited the areas of faculty salaries and faculty chairs 
as priorities also considered high by administration.  the  
Round and round and round and ....  
Thus,  the  library budget  and  the  all­ 

important book acquisition funds must join the carousel of priorities, grabbing for the golden ring of budget increases. As many administrators have said, there's just so much money around, and the fighting for funds gets more and more vicious each year. If the library hopes to gain the footholds it so desparately needs to main­tain a level of quality in keeping with the prestige of Notre Dame, it must further streamline its activities and acquisitions in addition to fighting all the more for funds. 
The library is one of the most important aspects of education, for teaching would flounder without an extensive collection to back it up. This makes the efficiency of operation and the fullest utilization of current funds of prime importance to both the Library and the entire University. 
.... v <o 
'' . Tuesday, February 5, 1974 the observer '• 

daanesbury 
; VvCf._ 
@~ @u YOfJR CZAR5HIP, . '1 ;;; T/-IER/3 HAVG BEEN 
i  Sl?VE!?Al VNCONFIR/1£0  
~  REPORTS t.A7ElY THAT YOU  
.;  AR& CfJNSI!JtRIN6 SeTTIN6  
~  

InPIRG investigates validity of clean water lobby group 
by Jackie Simmons Staff Reporter 
The Indiana Public Interest Research Group met in Bloomington last week with Mrs. Lorene Shunk, head of the Citizen's Committee for Clean Water and Clean Laundry. Mrs. Shunk's committee is now in the process of gathering public support for the repeal of Indiana's ban on phosphates. 
In questioning Mrs. Shunk about 

Who can 1talk to about getting the Chicago Tribune delivered to my room? 
Just call Henry at 8851 According to the publicity, neither wind, ice, sleet nor snow will stop him from delivering the Trib to you every Monday through Saturday by 8:00a.m. 
Ever since Notre Dame won the national football championship, many sportswriters have said that we don't really deserve it, that Ohio State did. According to them, there is no way to ac­curately rate the two teams comparatively because we never play them. Isn't it true that we have repeatedly asked them to play us, but they've always refused? 
There is much confusion, both inside and outside Notre Dame on this so we took the issue directly to Athletic Director Edward "Moose" Krause. The last time we played the Buckeyes was 1935 in our celebrated, come-from-behind, 18-13 win. According to Krause, Notre Dame has, from that ti~1e, tried without success to re-schedule OSU. Krause has contmued the efforts of Frank Leahy and Elmer Layden, :his predecessors as Athletic Director. They have all failed and the future outlook is also bleak. 
Krause blames the delay on Ohio State. In his words, "Twenty-five years ago, Woody Hayes sajd he would n~ver plar, Notre Dame as long as he was the football coach at Ohio State. According to Krause, the Ohio State exc~se i~ a desire to con­centrate on winning the Big Ten chtampwnsh1p. . 
Interestingly enough, the two schools had reached a te~tatlve 
agreement to play Sept. 17, 1977, and Sept. 19, 1978, pendmg (at 
the time) Ohio State's acceptance of an eleventh game. Wh~n 
Buckeyes did agree to the eleventh game, though, OSU Athletic 
Director Ed Weaver informed the Irish that his squad would 
instead play Oregon State on those dates. So much for a dream 
game. 
What is the cheapest way to make a long-distance phone call? 
The best times, of course, are on weekends or nights. For a station-to-station call on a weekend, the maximum charge is .70 for three minutes. Between 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. the maximum charge is .35 for one minute. Every other night between 5:00p.m. and ll:OO p.m. the maximum rate is .85 for three minutes. For more detailed information, call the Operator. 
Hairstyling...with style 
+Award Winning Stylists +Unique Atmosphere 
+ Roffler Styling and Products 

First Floor, 100 center Mishawaka, Indiana 
..______A_p_po•i-nt_m_e_n..ts_P.re•f-er..,e_d_,_25_5_-6_5_oo____.: 
her committee's financial backing by the FMC Corp., of Chicago, the Bloomington InPirg questioned whether this is truly a consumer effort of merely lobbying by the FMC Corp., which is a major manufacturer of both phosphates and the chemicals used to remove phosphates in the sewage treat­ment process. 
Further, in opposing the repeal of the phosphate ban, lnPIRG presented a report by Robert Sweeney, a well-known biologist and expert on phosphates, who pointed out that a similar ban in ·Erie County, New York has 
resulted in a 30 per cent drop in over all phosphate concentration in the water. 
The pamphlets now being mailed by Mrs. Shunk's group were prepared by the FMC and are "grossly misleading" according to Mr. Sweeney. 
InPIRG director, Fritz Wiecking, summarized the con­clusions of the group: "The so­called Citizen's Committee for Clean Water and Clean Laundry appears to be nothing more than a front for the FMC Corporation, which will simply disappear into the woodwork the moment the legislative battle is over on the phosphate control bill. They will simply ·evaporate, and leave Indiana with its. phosphate laden 
streams, and its citizens struggling 
..._ 50595 U.S. 31 lorth, South lend, lnfi;~na 
to 
rid the lakes of growing masses ,....11111•••••••••••••••••••••..
of choking algae. It would be more 
appropriate to can them the Businessman's and Industries Committee to Regain Lost 
Phosphate Profits." Notre Dame's InPIRG, in the process of reorganization after two 
years of nonexistence, will be actively seeking workers this 
semester. 
SHOE SALE 
Imported Men's Shoes and Boots 
Brown Suede Boots Reg. $12.00 Now $5.50 
Six Styles of all leather Men's Shoes. Reg. $22.00 Now $10 -$12 
TONY'S 
Shoe Shop 
Now in Badin Hall 
~ 
the observer 
Night Editor: J. R. Baker Ass't Night Editors: Tim O'Reiley, Bill Murphy Layout: Mike Strickroth, Clyde Iverson, Mark Frazel, Gary Allietta, Tom O'Neil, Marlene Zlosa, Dean Janke, Andy Praschak, Jim Stevens, Ginny Faust Copy Editor: Marlene Zloza Day Editors: Gary Allieta, Jim R osini Typists: Barb Non;:ross, Mary Romer, C. Arrieh, Jeff McPherson, Tom Modglin Compugraphic: Joe Abell Night Controller: John Flannigan Sorts: Greg Corgan, Peggy Heidkamp, Peggy Lawlor Pictures: Jerome Phillips 
SE·RVICE SPECIAL 
:··· !. 
:
:---_ WITH CCK,FON -~1!1!!!!!~---··WITM : COUPON
WITH
--·:
1 : COU...ON : 
: ..... -n.... : : IUIE IEUIII& 
MOST .......;: :. :~~=~!~; ~~~c
-il==a1 l-~ '28"l. 
: • . FOR£ IGH CAft5
:·~~~H. : . . . .
. . . .
. . :=$..~ ~-;.;L~S.: l ·,, '29'1 
i ••.• l • AUt C()fC). ~S Sz ll*)ltlt,: : ' 
: INCLUDI:S ,.LUGS, POINTS •• I INCLUDES FULL IN­: ~A'"S IE'XTnA : 
. . 
: CONOt:NSt;... CHI:CK : : SP[CTIOH, FLUID 1 IF NE[U£(1 I : AND CL!:AN, WE ALSO 
. . i =:!ci[T~:,~!; : 
........................."'
~-. .................'! ••• .: 
L.-~~~!~'! .o.•~;.~~:-':!"..s_ ••• 
• • §-IHUI.!Ui¥4Ciii#•i41 ·• ... ·: ;.. ·-: 
2 5 • 000 MILE GUA"AHT[t: : 
' AIR MUFFLERS:,;:
1, SHOCKS BUY 3 ~ l
$10.95 
SHOCIS ·~: 
r plus : SET ~ l 
i
~ installation l 1 FREE l 
II l
i~.t~i~t1: 
REG. $7.77 EACH!
ii ~IR ->.D~L'ST,.I.SLE FOR MOST AMERICAt<i :, CARS INSTALLED 
i
························· 
Brand new 4-ply tires 
start at $12.95 
.650-13 plus Sl.8t tax 

Phone 212-1023 
CIEU I'IIIICT:I AT CIUr I'IIIC£$ IS 10 URUI.I DrU Ullf 'llll I. SAT. 'Til. 4 ~-,_.ICTS II 'lEU I'IICU IS I UUAII 
8 TRACK TAPES $2.75 
DISCOUNT TIRE SERVICE 
.-,_.;.;;~-A-N_E_V_E_N_I_N_G_W_I_T_H____ •
Rod 
Mcv.uen 
~~ 
LIVE, IN PERSON, WITH ORCHESTRA 

IN CONCERT· FRIDAY· FEBRUARY 22 •8PM! 
MORRIS AUDITORIUM· SOUTH BEND, IND. RESERVED SEATS $4.50-5.50-6.50 · 
Now on sale at Morris Auditorium Box Office, or by mail. Send payment with self-addressed, stamped envelope to: • McKuen, Morris Aud., 211 N. Michigan, South Bend, Ind. 
Special 1\lotre Dame-St. Mary's Discount! $1.00 off each ticket. Purchase discounted 
tickets at Morris Auditorium Box Office! 

'.~I ' o ' • '. • :, • 
· ·Tues.day;. February -5,·19'74 

Some inner-city o-hettos have special schools. For little boys who don't talh.. 
Not mute little boys. But children so withdrawn, so afraid of failure, they cannot make the slightest attempt to do any­thing at which they might fail. 
Some don't talk. Some don't listen. Most don't behave. And all of them don't learn. 
One day someone asked us to help. 
Through Kodak, cameras and film were distributed to teachers. The teachers gave the cameras to the kids and told them to take pictures. 
And then the miracle. Little boys who had never said any­thing, looked at the pictures and began to talk. They said "This is my house." "This is my dog." "This is where I like to hide." They began to explain, to describe, to communicate. And once the channels of communication had been opened, they began to learn. 

We're helping the children of the inner-city. And we're also helping the adults. We're involved in inner-city job pro­grams. To train unskilled people in useful jobs. 
· What does Kodak stand to gain from this? Well, we're showing how our products can help a teacher-and maybe ·creating a whole new market. And we're also cultivating young customers who will someday buy their own cameras and film. But more than that, we're cultivating alert, edu­cated citizens. Who will someday be responsible for our society. 
After all, our business depends on our society. So we care what happens to it. 
Kodak 
More than abusiness. 
---------:---­
~~--~-­
---------------------. 
Tuesday, Februarv. 5,_ 1974 .th~ obse~ver 
Campus briefs • • • 
Mary Jo Benko Barbara Ann Ch-st.Mary'S awardS. r.1ielowiec, Genevieve Bey Musick, 
and Debra Piatkowski, .Systems analyst Mishawaka;. Terry Lynn Forrest,21 SChOlarshipS Granger; Michele Ann Jaworski, set for SMC talk 
Osceola; Sue Ellen Kimbel, Karen 
Lynn Sills, and Cynthis Diane George J. Hach, senior systems Twenty-one students at Saint Steele, of Elkhart; Dianna Lynn analyst for the Honeywell In­
Mary's have been announced Pilarski, of Niles, Michigan. formation Systems, will conduct a recipients of the College's lecture tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Michiana Scholarships this year. Carroll Hall, St. Mary's. The 
"Initiated last year, these program is entitled "Is There a scholarships express the ap­Junior parents Computer in Your Future: How preciation and gratitude to the Can I Deal With That Big Brain?"
weekend slated
Michiana area for the friendly Sponsored by the Dept. of Business support it has extended to Saint Administration, the lecture is part Mary's College for the past 129 Plans for this month's Junior of the series, "Contemporary
Parents Weekend are now in their
years of our existence," stated Dr. Issues in Business and 
Edward L. Henry, president. final stages. Although the deadline Economics." The scholarships, awarded for for replies has passed, reser­
high academic achievement, are vations can still be made until this 
applied against tuition charges. Friday, Feb. 8 by calling Steve at Morrissey family Exceptional talent in such areas as 3650. r.>usic and art is also recognized Tickets for the scheduled events beginsSMCloans
for these scholarsips. will be r.lailed to the parents this This year's Michiana Scholars week. 
are: Judith Broecker, Michele Rectors and Assistant Deans will Dr. Edward L. Henry, president, Fenimore, Anna Frigeyesi, Julia be seated with the students and Saint Mary's College, announced Mary Hotop, Deborah Ruth Jones parents. Request for specific today that the College is the 
Monice Marie Kaczorowski, seating arrangements can be 1·ecipient of a $100,000 gift Rebecca Kapsa, Colette Marie placed by contacting Kathleen establishing the John A. Morrissey Morfoot, Cheryl Niemier, Judith Keyes at 1312. The committee asks Memorial Loan Fund. 
Ann Poklinkowski, and Melanie that all responses be made Dr. Henry stated, "This very 
Kay Veger, all of South Bend: promptly. ~enerous gift from the Morrissey family answers a genuine need that has exited on our campus for some time and we are most
Shriver will deliver 
12rateful to them." This fund provides for short term emergency loans to students,
civil rights lecture 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Sargent Shriver, Democratic informal meetings with students nominee for vice pr~ident in 1972, and faculty members during his 
Now extra
will be the principal speaker at the stay on the campus. third annual Civil Rights Lecture Shriver has been a frequent Series co-sponsored by the visitor to Notre Dame. Before University of Notre Dame's Law emerging on the national scene, he 
0-C survey
School and Center for Civil Rights served as a member of the March 21 and 22. This year's University's advisory council for lectures will be held in conjunction the College of Business Ad­
drop-offs
with a Center-sponsored Civil ministration in 1953. He was the. Rights Conference. commencement speaker and 
Participants in the Notre Dame recipient of an honorary doctorate Additional drop-off places of Off. programs will note the 20th an­in 1961, the recipient of the Campus survey:niversary of the landmark Patriotism Award in 1965, and, in Pay Cafeteria Supreme Court Brown decision 1968, received the Laetare Medal, Huddle prohibiting segregation in schools generally regarded as the most Assoc. Dean Raymond's office, 132 and preside at the dedication of the significant annual award given to Hayes-Healy newly established Civil Rights American Catholics. Dean of Arts and Letters office, 101 
Center and Reading Room in the Dr. Howard Glickstein, director O'Shag Law School. The sixth anniversary of Notre Dame's Civil Rights Campus Ministry, (slip under of the death of Martin Luther King Center and former staff director of door) will also be commemorated during the U.S. Commission on Civil the three-day seminar. Rights, is general chairman of the Additional copies available: 
The Civil Rights Lecture Series conference. Dr. Francil X. was inaugurated in 1972 to honor Bey tagh, professor of Law, will Off-Campus office, 315 Ad­Notre Dame's president, Rev. preside at the lectures. The ministration Bldg. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., a private files of Father Hesburgh Observer Office charter member and former during his tenure on the com­
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
chairman of the U.S. Civil Rights mission, as well as other major faculty and staff for needs that cannot be financed elsewhere. Itis in no way to be competitive with regular sources of credit but is to assist members of the Saint Mary's College community in time of unexpected need. The administration of the loan fund will emanate from the office of the vice president for fiscal affairs. 
There has been a long association between Saint Mary's College and the Morrissey family. John Morrissey's daughter, Suzanne M. Gaumond, attended Saint Mary's College. The rradition has passed down to her daughters. Sister Rose Ellen Morrissey, CSC, Barbara M. Kelly, Marilyn Monissey and Carol M. Showell are all graduates of Saint Mary's College. 
Foreign policy lecture planned 
A lecture, "Troubled Friend ship: American-Israeli Relation: After the Yom Kippur War," wil be presented at Saint Mary': Wednesday, February 6, 1974 a 
7:30 p.m. in Carroll Hall Madeleva. 
Speaker for the evening will b( Or. Howard Dooley, a factult~ r.1enber of the humanitie! departmental Western Michigar University, Lalamazoo, Michigan. He will examine the variour changes in Cnited States foreigr policy which have taken plact since the October war in thf Middle East. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
PI5RSONALS NOTICES 
Daniel, 
all Sophomore LiteraryI hope you've stopped telling 
Festival authors 20 per cent off people you're a prince who's a at PANDORA'S. N. St. Louis disguised frog. The only thing 
St. at SB ave. 233-2342. Open 1 one gets from kissing frogs is 
days.
warts. Love, We still have Youth Fares to Your good witch. · Europe I! Call Clark and save $$$$$$. 234-2098. Dear "Don't Ask Me" Big eyes and black hair is still 
Good tix still available for the 
after you. 
Friday and Saturday per· formances of Grease at Morris 
Dear Miss Chris: Happy Birth. 
Civic . Student Union ticket 
day I! ·,Awaiting more snow as 
office from 1-5 daily. 
your present. Troublemaker. 
Tune in WSND Contact tonight at 10 pm and hear B. Keefe Meyt-(Ceytl-Happy 21st B-day 
Montgomery discussing the 
from Jeckh! and Barry. 
Right to Life with Reverend Cairns. 
Kapu says: NO sex code: Morality: li>eace with Honor: 
MARCEL MARCEAU tlx are 
Peace. 
selling fast. Still available at Kapu of Honolulu. 
CAC office, 4th floor LeFor· tune. From 1·4pm. Hurryupll
A belated thanks to ail of you: John, Tom, Gabe, Boris, Zeus, FOR SALE PJ, Steve, Scoop, Pete "the 
mad saw", Colonel, Crusty, Wilson classic golf clubs, bag,
Boyd, Butch, Frick, Denny, balls, and tees. Less than yearJerry, Whus, Frank, Barb, old. Best Offer. 8428. Jane, Maureen, Jude. and the little clown: For a super job. Advent 201 cassette deck, 
Arkie. Pioneer SA 500A amp. Call 
1487. As expected the Hurricane struck with devestating effects. Petrie FT 2 35 mm FLR 
.. The house has been declared camera with 200 mm. Lentar a Federal disaster area. lens. Plus two filters. $130. Thanks to all and get well soon. Pete, Clark, and Phil. WANTED 
Mary from Watervliet, Need ride to Cleveland Exit 10 I sure do like your smile. this weekend. Tom 233-9068. Nikolai. LOST AND FOUND 
Lost gold ring with embossed dog's head. Call Mike 8782. 
boo~a~Mticl~ooci~ri~ts,r-------------------·---------------------~
Commission. Chief Justice Earl 
Warren delivered three major addresses on the historic role of the Supreme Court during the initi"al session. This was followed by Sen. Philip Hart last year in a discussion of legislative actions in the area of civil rights. 
Shriver, the nation's first director of the Office of Economic Opportunity (OEO), will focus on executive leadership in his two major talks, which will be open to the public. He is expected to discuss the strategies planned and executed by the office of the president in gaining passage of key civil rights legislation and im­plementing Civil Right policies. Presently engaged in the private practice of law in the Washington, 
D.C. area, Shriver will schedule 
Duke Law School 
Interviews 
Saturday, February 9, 9:00 am -12:00 noon 
All Invited 
For sign-ups see Pre-Law Society Bulletin Board outside Room 101 O'Shaughnessy 
are being processed for use by researchers in the Center, which is 
Student Union Invites You To located in the recently renovated and enlarged Law School Building. 
> ·_\...#­
ACAPULCO 
.SUMMER JOBS 
·,:: ... ~ . . 
MARCH 11-18 
Guys & Gals needed for summer employment at National Parks, Private Camps, Dude Ranches and Resorts throughout the nation. Over 50,000 students aided each year. For FREE information on student assistance program send self-addressed STAMPED enve­lope to Opportunity Research, Dept. SJO. 55 Flathead Drive Kalisp&ll, MT 59901. ' ....YOU MUST APPLY EARLY.... 
THIS STUDENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM HAS BEEN 
REVIEWED B't THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSIOI' 
$270 includes: 
*Round trip airfare via Braniff 727 
* 
8 days, 7 nites at beachfront La Playa Hotel 

* 
V2 day yacht cruise on Acapulco Bay, with open bar 

* 
Baggage handling ~~ transportation to & from 


Acapulco airport *All taxes and service charges for above 
Reservations now being 1~aken at SU Ticket Office Total payment of $270 due by February 14 (Valentine's Day) ... .Questions· .call Sween at 3669 
r­
' 
,,. ·' ,~ --.'"~:. .
! 8 
the observer Tuesday, February 5, 1974 
Spartans swallow the big ·Apple' 
Paterno's shot with 0:03 left sends kish to 91-89 triumph 
by Hal Munger 
A thriller! It went down to the wire, but with three seconds remaining, Whoosh! It was Billy "Apple" Paterno who dropped a 19 foot bomb to nip Michigan State 91· 89 last night in East Lansing. 
It was never easy for the Irish to record win number 16 as they trailed early by 10 points and never held more than a nine point ad­vantage. • 
When the final tallies were counted, the percentages indicated the game's torrid pace. Notre Dame made 39 of 62 shots from the floor for 62.9 per cent while MSU was not far behind canning 59.4 per cent of their attempts. From the charity stripe the Irish dropped in 65 per cent of their chances and the Spartans outshot ND at the line making 76.5 per cent of their free throws. 
Co-captains John Shumate and Gary Novak became the 16th and 17th men to join the Notre Dame 1000-point club in the heart­stopping game at Jenison Field House. The "Big Shu" pounded in his third shot at 14:25 in the first half to cut the Spartan lead to 16-12 to set his career total at 1001. He went on to top ND's scoring column with 27 points. 
"Goose" finished with ten points as each of the Irish starters hit double figures. The senior forward broke 1000 points with 12 minutes 
I remaining to bring ND within two. A minute later Gary Brokaw knotted the score at 22-22 on a fine fast-breaking pass from Dwight Clay. The 22-all tie was the first tie ND had been able to manage since the 2-2 deadlock in the opening minutes. Michigan State tapped the opening jump downcourt to Mike Robinson who gave State its opening lead. The 5'11" two-time Big Ten scoring leader lead all scorers going seven of seven from the foul line and wound up with a game high 31 points. Shu came down the floor scoring fit·st for the Irish from underneath. Then the Spartans reeled off 10 markers before Novak stole the 
A C(onvo) C(hristmas) 
Editor's note ,.. Frequently the literary talents of an athlete can be 
hopelessly stymied by their endless hours of endeavor upon the practice 
field, court, or rink. More frequently, however, there are no such talents. 
But when such special abilities openly present themselves they should be allowed to surface. For think what would be missing had we been denied the opportunity for intellectual stimulation provided the efforts of that poet lauriot of the boxing world, Muhammed Ali, or that Pulitzer prize-winning author and showman Lance Rentzel. 
It is not necessary, however, to probe the professional ranks for such standouts because the young ones are currently budding right here on the college level-even on an offensive line. 
So without further consideration, and with due respect to the late e.e. cummings and Dr. Seuss, we would here like to present the initial work of an aspiring young poet and offensive guard: 
"Christmas in the Convo" or "How Ara Stole Christmas" 
•.. 
by Alan R. Wujciak -OG, 6-2,230 
With the holidays coming and exams near done the students are joyous with fun yet to come. But there are 85 who will not see Santa's gifts underneath their Christmas tree. 
But with this New Year comes their biggest goal, a national championship and the Sugar Bowl. And with this task now clear in theirminds they start to practice in the Convo confines. 
So with these 85 practicing the best they know how we know Our Lady will not let them down. Now leaving for the place where this battle begins, the Irish will be looking for their llth win. 
But out of the South comes the Crimson Tide Trying to ruin the Irish pride. But Ara said, "I'll have none of this noise, Ihavefaithin allof myboys." 
The Irish jumped off to an early lead, and it appeared 'Bama's defense was easy to read. But when the Irish seemed to be riding the Tide, The momentum swung to 'Bama's side. 
When the enemy scored the fans sensed trouble, but along came Al Hunter to burst 'Bam a's bubble Throughout the game the lead switched hands Causing concern among our loyal fans. 
But as the fourth quarter slowly progressed, 
it seemed Alabama had put the Irish to rest. 
It looked like a win for our worthy foe 
'til they ran across Bob Thomas' toe. 
Just then a punt way down to our goal 
.. Made it look as if the Tidewouldstill surely roll. 
But a clutch pass by Clements was all she wrote 
The Irish had gotten 'Bama's goat. 
ball and tossed to Shumate, who again, scored. Novak then hit a hook and it was 41h minutes into the battle before State missed its first shot. 
Clay dropped a long one, Brokaw canned one close, and Dantley popped a 16 footer, his only points of the first half, to keep ND within striking distance after 8 minutes. 
Some peculiar calls hampered ND throughout the game but it was also their early turnovers which hurt. At one point the Irish turned the ball over five straight times. 
Paterno entered the contest and knotted the score at 34-34 on a 16 footer, then at 36 with two free throws. But the "Big Shu" gave ND the game's first lead 38-36. From there it went to a 43-39 Notre Dame halftime lead. 
Rough play went undetected under the basket in the first stanza but the turnovers evened up until MSU came out fired up in the second half. 
Two quick scores by 6'4" sophomore Terry Furlow again brought the tie. Michigan State built a 4 point lead but Dantley started muscling his way inside to squelch that lead. Dantley, together with Clay and Brokaw kept the extremely fast pace, causing the game to see-saw much of the second half. 
Broke drilled a 19 footer for the biggest ND margin at 76-67. But an MSU time out at 8:15 left slowed the ND charge. The hometown squad, spurred on by a capacity­plus crowd, fought back. 
Robinson, Furlow, and Bill Glover built a Spartanlead of four points at 2:45 left. Brokaw made both ends of a one-and-one with 
2:15 to go and Shumate tied it at 89 with 1:02 left. Michigan State called for time at 1:02. The Spartans stalled for the next 42 seconds, until coach Gus Ganakas called a time out. 
MSU inbounded the ball from sidecourt and waited until twelve seconds were left. At that point Furlow, who had been playing a heady game lost his cool. His long shot went short, out of bounds, and untouched. 
Notre Dame brought the ball inbounds and scurried it upcourt where the blond frosh was waiting . Paterno, finding no one open near the basket, let go just to the left of the top of the foul l"iri"IP 
"Our strategy at 22 seconds," said Phelps~!'was that if they miss ana wt: get the rebound, we call a time out. If they make it, we just throw it in and hope to get a shot at the basket with out !-formation offense. Actually, I don't think Paterno even saw the rim when he went for that last shot." 

1 
The Irish are four for four Wednesday. Four of the next five 
defeating Northwestern, Ohio ND games are on the road. 
State, Indiana, and now Michigan Because of this, Coach Digger 
State. None have been par-Phelps was prompted to say, "This 
ticularly easy, with the exception is one of the most critical times of 
of Northwestern, but the victories our season." 
have sent the Irish closer to an The Irish took a critical step in 
NCAA Mideast bid. the right direction last night, and 
Notre Dame is at the Palestra in iast year, when they recruited 
Philadelphia to play LaSalle Billy Paterno. ' 
BG, MSU outdistance Irish 
by Pete McHugh  
Outrun,  outhurdled,  out­ 
shotputted,  and  even  out­ 
triplejumped,  the  Notre  Dame  

track team was generally out­classed Friday at the ACC as it placed third behind winner Michigan and runner-up Bowling Green. Michigan, with ten first place finishes and 67 points, easily defeated the Falcons and the Irish who· scored 51 and 44 points respectively. 
For Notre Dame, the setback came as little surprise since the Wolverines, a powerful Big Ten contender, and Bowling Green, last year's MAC champions, both sported superior times going into the competition. The trouncin~ 
Sailors set future meets 
This weekend, members of the Notre Dame Sailing Team will be travelling to Iowa to schedule the Spring and Fall Regattas they wish to attend this yeat:. The first meeting of the weekend is the Friday Night Gripe Session, held to air ideas and criticisms, with hopes of improving the 42 school Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association. Saturday morning the bargaining involved in getting 
invited to the best regattas will begin. The policy of the Notre Dame 
team will be to schedule as many regattas as possible, using the better sailors in the top regattas, while giving the other members of the team a chance to compete intercollegiately and gain racing experience in the lesser regattas. Also, the team will attempt to be invited to as many intersectio~al regattas as possible, a maJor 
rankings. 
Notre Dame will be hosting its annual Icebreaker Regatta on March 2 and 3, and has plans for a Women's Regatta in April. Both regattas will have eight schools sailing in them. The Fall Regatta at Notre Dame, September 22 and 23, has been sanctioned as an in­
tersectional regatta, in order  to  
allow  non-district  schools  to  
compete.  

Sailing Club meetings are every Wednesday evening at 6:30 in room 204 of the Engineering Building. Topics for this week are the Mardi Gras Regatta at Tulane, the arrival of three new boats, and the start of on-the-water and classroom sailing lessons. Raffle tickets are being distributed, with a Texas Instruments SR 10 Calculator as prize. Money from the raffle is to be used for payment on the new boats. Interested gives the Irish a 1-2 slate for the season with both losses coming at the hands of Big Ten opponents (iast week to Northwestern). 
Overall, the Irish captured but two of the fifteen events as sophomore Mike Hogan in the pole vault competition and junior Mike Gahagan in the 1,000-yard run supplied the only heroics. Hogan, a product of Mishawaka Marian High School, took his event with a 14'6" vault after narrowly missing 
15'2" and a school record. Gahagan won his specialty with a 
2:13.0 clocking. 
In the other events, freshman Al Pulikowski (shot put) and junior Jack Gerwe (60-yard high hurdles) suffered their first defeats of the season. Also placing second for Notre Dame were sophomore Bob Schott in the 600-yard run and freshman Paul Martuscello in the 300-yard dash. The Irish mile relay team (Schott, Jim Clouse, Gahagan, John Long) took runner­up honors behind the Michigan quartet. 
Freshman Dan Knott, who played halfback for the Irish JV football team, finished second in the long jump and triple jump in his first competition this year. 
Other Irish scoring included Mike Housley (3rd place, mile), Jeff Seth (3rd place, pole vault), Clouse (4th place, 440-yard run), Tom Fredricks (4th place, shot pull, Jim Reinhart (4th place, 1,000-yard run), Joe Rauscher (4th place, 600-yard run), and Greg Marino (4th place, 880-yard run). 
This weekend Notre Dame again faces strong Big Ten represen­tatives. Friday, coach Don Faley's charges travel to Columbus for a triangular meet with Ohio State and East Carolina; and Saturday, the Irish bus it to East Lansing for 
factor in determining national -students are welcome to attend. the Michigan State Relays. 



