OD The IDslde 
Aaron ties record 
.•• page 4 
Letters 
..• page 10 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII, No. 6 
Tornadoes hit southeast today 
By United Press International 

More tornadoes raked parts of the southeast Thursday, bringing additional death and destruction to a nation already reeling from the impact of the worst twister disasters in 49 years. 
By nightfall, the death toll stood at 339 persons in 12 states and a Canadian border city. 
President Nixon declared Alabama, Kentucky, Ohio, Tennessee and Indiana major disaster areas. 
At least two more deaths were reported in the late hours of Thursday-one in Ohio and another in Virginia. . 
Kentucky was hardest hit with 89 deaths. Gov. Wendell Ford called it the blackest day in the state's modern history. 
But elsewhere, as National 
Guardsmen rushed to join 
rescue workers, the toll edged 
upwards. 
More tornado warnings went 
up in New York State, 
southeast Alabama, northwest 
Florida and southern and 
central Georgia. -New twisters touched down in Virginia and West Virginia, where a 3-year­old girl died when her mobile home collapsed. 

Local officials stopped count­ing the number of injured, but the figure was in the thousands. Damage estimates exceeded one billion dollars. 
The National Weather Service said 100 or more separate twisters virtually wiped out small communities from Ok­lahoma to Michigan in the north and Georgia in the south, 
Alabama reported 73 deaths, Tennessee 58, Indiana 42, Ohio 41, Georgia 15, North Carolina five, Michigan three, Illinois two, Virginia one, West Vir­ginia one and Oklahoma one. 
Eight more persons died in Windsor, Ont., just across the border from Detroit, when high winds collapsed a wall on a crowd at a curling arena. 
The "savage spring" was the worst tornado disaster since 689 persons died in 1925 in a series of twisters that devastated parts of Missouri, Indiana· and Illinois. 

42 dead in Indiana 
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. (UPI) -Gov. Otis Bowen viewed from a helicopter Thursday the devastation carved by tor­nadoes in areas of Indiana that killed 42 persons and injured hundreds more. 
The storms, worst in Indiana since the Palm Sunday twisters of April 11, 1965, left a trail of debris and damage estimated by state officials at $70 million or more. 
At least 15 counties counted deaths. Damage was wide­spread from Monticello, which was virtually wiped out, to the southeastern quarter of the state where three of the tornado lines were drawn. 
A compilation of deaths from Indiana State Police, Indiana Civil Defense, and a check of local authorities and news media representatives through­out the stricken area showed at least 42 fatalities and nearly 800 
injuries.  
More  than  750 guardsmen  
were  on  duty  around  the  state  
helping  with  manpower  and  

equipment. 
Before he left Indianapolis, the governor called the White House and asked presidential aides for a declaration of the stricken Indiana communities as disaster areas. 
A few hours later, word came back that President Nixon had· done so. 

Friday, April 5, 1974 

Concert poll conducted: AM stars most popular 
by Jack D'Aurora 
Staff Reporter In order to ascertain what performers the student body would prefer to see in concert and what pricestheywould be willing to pay, Kenneth Lee, a marketing major and director of the .ND jazz festival, conducted a poll, compiling the results at the end of last semester. 
The questionairre contained six classification of music-jazz, rock-jazz, country-rock, pop , rock, and minority, comprising 60 different groups-and asked the student if he would go to see each performer and at what price , It also a'sked the student to list the eight groups that he would most like to see and at what price. Finally the surve~ asked the student for his reasons for not attending the Chuck Berry and New Riders concerts if he had not 
:~oo students polled 
Lee polled 300 students at random and received a 60 per cent return, but had difficulty in accurately polling the minorities on campus. "When I wen to the computer to get the names of theh 300 students, I made sure 3 per cent of them were blacks to correspond to the number of blacks on campus. However, 3 per cent of the 300 students is negligible," explained Lee. 
In addition, many people did not state their ethnic background as the questionaire requested. The survey, according to Lee , is 95 percent accurate, which is as accurate as possible." 
"The poll reinforced what Rich Donovan, N.D. concert chairman, and I already knew," said Lee. According to the two, most students prefer to see the famous performers who have a lot of AM hits.: Moody Blues, Chicago, Elton John., Seals and Crofts, etc. 
"There were only a few surprising things in the poll," continued Lee. Duke Elington, who drew a poor crowd in Stepan two years ago was the eighteenth most popular performer in the poll. 50 percent of those polled said they would go see him. 
Financial problems 
The same percentage said they would also go to see the Grateful Dead, "a group much like the New Riders on whom we lost money," said Lee. 
One of the frequently given reasons for not attending the Chuck Berry and New Riders concerts was that the concerts were held at in­
convenient  times.  Lee  Questioned,  "What's  
more  convenient  than  Friday  or  Saturday  
night'?"  

According to Donovan the only way to afford most of the big name bands is to charge $6.00 per ticket and to sell out the , ACC. "Although other places charge $6.00 for every ticket, I don't think 


Father Wiskirchen and'&thers discuss the upcoming Collegiate Jazz Festival to be held this 
Jazz weekend in Stephan Center (StaH photo by Paul Joyce) 
Pop Soui-R&B 
we can do it here, for it's never been done here 
before." 
Donovan commented that he could get a lot of 
inexpensive bands that are goud and have cut an 
album, "But who would go to see an unknown?" 
he asked. 
Rubble gum wins out 
Donovan is pessimistic about the student body. 
"We brought in a progressive group like the New 
Riders, and a lot. of people were dissatisfied, 
because they didn't know what to expect," he 
explained. "A promoter told me that Joni Mit­
chell is one of the most popular acts in the nation, 
but she didn't do so well here either." 
Walk-out at Santana 
He cited a similar example in last year's 
Santana concert. '"'A lot of dissatisfied people 
walked out because they didn't realize how 
progressive Santana was.· They expected to bear 
stuff like Evil Ways, but the group only did one 
vacal. 
"People who knew what to expect had a good 
time." 
Another problem concerning the selection of 
concerts is the University policy forbidding 
concerts to coincide with athletic events. Two 
performances were lost because of hockey 
games. 
Athletics interfere 
The Loggins and Messina conccert was set for November 16, which Donovan had been told was open. "We were ready to sign the contracts when I got a call from Mr. Sassano, managing director of the ACC who told me that he had just received the hockey schedule and, because there was a game slated for November 16, we couldn't hold the concert." 
Seals and Croft had an opening in their tour for February 22, and could have performed here bad it not been for a hockey game scheduled for the same night, according to Donovan. 
"With the University policy and the other activites scheduled in the ACC, we have a finite number of weekends to choose from," explained Donovan. "Athletics hasn't been a problem up to now, but Digger is trying to get more Saturday afternoon games, and we can't have a concert after a game because there's not enough time to set up. That's why we lost the Bob Dylan con­cert," he pointed out. 
Donovan has been talking to Fr. David Schlaver, director of student activities, in the hope of changing the policy. Donovan says he understands the University's position, but with the current policy, "8,000 students can be deprived of a concert that may only come once." 

PER CENT WHO WOULD 
I. RANK BY POPULARLITY 

GO TO A CONCERT 
1 Crosby, Stills, Nash, & young 2 Moody Blues 3 Seals and Crofts 
4 Chicago 
5 Elton John 6 George Harrison 7 Allman Brothers 
8 Who 9 Led Zeppelin 10 Paul McCartney 
11  Jethro Tull  
12  Beach Boys  
13  Carly Simon  
14  America  
15  carole King  

II. MUSICAL TYPES 
Folk ROck 
Rock Jazz-Rock 
61.6 61.0 
59.4 
59.0 
58.8 57.8 56.02 
56.0 55.8 55.5 
55.5 
55.3 
54.9 
54.8 
54.8 
Percentage 
42.2 
23.7 
17.7 
7.0 
4.4 
5.6 

_j 
-~------...-----~----~--------~----------~­
warld briefs. 
LONDON UPI-Five more charges were filed Thursday against Ian Ball, 26, the man accused of trying to kidnap Princess Anne March 20, and the government said his trial could begin next week. 
The additional charges included attempting to kidnap the Princess and hold her by force and three more attempted murder charges. Ball had already been charged with attempted murder of the Princess' bodyguard. 
AMSTERDAM UPI-Four days before his intended departure for the United States, exiled Soviet dissident Pavel Litvinov appealed Thursday for worldwide protests next month against repression of civil liberties in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. 
Litvinov, grandson of Josef Stalin's foreign minister Maxim Litvinov, released an "Appealto World Public Opinion" also signed by dissident Soviet nuclear physicist Andred Sakharov. 

an campus taday 

12:15 pm, seminar, msgr. joseph gremilllon, "pontlflclal com­mission for justice and peace report and perspectives". spon by center for the study of man:, library lounge 
1:50 pm, electron-microscopies lecture, "possibilities of Image analysis" by dr. harold erickson, dept. of anatomy, duke u., galvin life sci. ·center 
2:45 pm, elec.-micro. conference, demonstration. rev. joseph cassldy, dr. robert rew, dr. george mathew, dr. ezequlel rivera, dr. robert truitt, dr. nicholas flore, dr. kenyon tweedell, dr. george kuczynskl, dr. william berry., 269 chem eng. bid 
3:30 pm, perspective series, "resuscitation of metaphysics" by anthony quinton, library faculty lounge 4 pm, elec-micro conference, "amplitude and phase contrast theory and some recent applications in tem." by dr. charles allen., galvin aud. 
4:15 pm, ward-phillips lecture, recapltualiatlon by dr. robert scholes, library aud. 
4:30 pm, lecture, nasa pictures and soviet paintings done on the space program by david braver, 204 o'shag 5 pm, mass and dinner, bulla shed 
7:30 pm, jazz fest., stepan center 7:30pm, travelogue, "wheels across europe" with julaan gromer, o'laughlin aud, $2 at door 8 pm, basketball, harlemglobetrotters, ace, $4.50, $3.50 & $2.50 8& 10, film, "two-lane black top" spon. by suac everyone yvelcome, eng. aud, $1 8 pm, duplicate bridge, everyone welcome, university club 
8:15 pm, concert, barrington high school concert choir spon. by 
music dept., little theater saturday, april 6, 1974 day long, jazz fest., o'laughlin aud. day long, symposium, "smc in t~e 70's: it's christian dimension", 
carroll hall day long, convention, tri-state regional convention of am. chem society., 105 sci. hall and madeleva mem. 
1:30 & 7:30 pm jazz fest., stepan center 8:30-5:30 pm, regatta, nd women, st. joe's lake 8& 10, film "two lane black top", eng. aud., $1 8:15pm concert, celestine romero, classical guitar, allen duncan, flute spon. by music dept., library aud., $2.50, students $1.50 
8:20 & 1 am, spring fling, party, music by MARK BLOOM BAND, SOUTH BEND ARMORY, $2.50, $3.00 AT DOOR 
2 PM. LECTURE, "eckanker-the ancient science of soul travel," eng. aud., $1 2 & 7 pm, drama, "adaptation" and "impromptu", presented by nd-smc laboratory theatre, lab theatre, upstiars wash hall, free, limited admission 8 and 10 pm, cinema 74, three hapanese films by kurosawa, ozu, rnizoguchi. spon. by cac, eng. aud. $1 

Pair to lecture on old science of soul travel 
by Terry Keeney 

Pat Henderson and Sally Johnstone, two advocates of ECKANKAR, the ancient science of soel travel, will lecture on the meaning of their lifestyle this Sunday, Aoril 7, at 2 p.m. in the Memorial Library auditorium. The lecture is open to the public and free of charge. 
ECKANKAR is not a religion, but a way to realize through travel of the soul, according to Mike Rouen, an ACKANKAR spokesman from Elkhart. 
"It has to do with the natural unfolding of individual con­sciousness," Rouen explained. "It is the culminating experience of an individual's spiritual growth." 
Rouen compared the ECKANKAR path to that ex­pounded in Richard Bach's novel Jonathan Livingston Seagull. 
"ECKANKAR involves the ability to project oneself out of the human state of consciousness via soul-bodyto experience the reality of higher vibratory objective planes," said Rouen. 
ECKANKAR differs from religion because it is a way of life compatible with any religion. "Religion sets down restrictive guidlines of do's and don't's," Rouen observed. "In ECKANKAR there is no one right or wrong answer. Everybody determines what's ri~ht and wrong." 
Th~ Observer Is publllhecl dally during the college semetter ellcept vacations by the lhlc:Jtntl of the University of Notre Dame •nd St. M11ry's Coll-ve. Subscriptions may be purchasec:J lor se per semester CS 14 per year) from The Observer Boll Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second clue post11ge paid. Notre O.me, Ind. 46556. 


THE ROMA 
welcomes our Notre Clime & St. Mary's friends 

your host, FRANK ANASTASIO j 
*PIZZA* ITALIA~_ FO.OD *LIQUORI 
Appearing this weekend for your dancing pleasure: "Pleasant Street Band."' Live music 4 nites a week. We're open until 4 a.m. on weekends ( {Qr late nite munchies).
For deliveries call ~-3258 219 N. Michigan Avenue
IDow.ntown..5Qu.tJLBencUnext.to .Morris. Clltlcl. . 

-~~------------~ 


DOME 1975 Wants You I 
We need • • • 
Editors: Sports Student Life Organizations Class of 1975 Production Mgr. Business Mgr:. Layout, copy, and photography people. 
Call 8048-to apply 


DOME 1975 

Yearbook of the Univ. of Notre Dame 

lHf \IR0H 81!fWfll~ (0MPI\trf OftROIT MICHIGAN 481?0 



Love tap. 
From one beer lover to another. 


the observer 

Dining hall workers face financial woes 
by Thomas O'Neil Staff Reporter 

When the North Dining Hall first opened in 1957, the line ladies were paid$.82 per hour. Ten years ago they were paid $1.05 an hour. Today they make $1.90. 
Their gross pay for full time work in a year, $3,952, is well below the established poverty level of $7,000. Their actual take-home pay for the year is $2,340, or $45 a week. 
Almost one dozen women line workers survive on these funds alone. One woman allots herself $15 a week for transportation, $30 a week for room, board, clothes and utilities. Others are more for­tunate, and are able to suplement these funds with outside sources of income. 
too many supervisors 

One lady commented, "We work hard for our money. And we have to, of course, because many of us can't find work anywhere else, and because most of us just never developed a particular skill we could use in another job." 
"But we are happy here, working for the boys and representing the Dining Hall as our supervisors tell us," she ad­ded. "So we just smile and do the best we can, as God Permits" 
Some of the women do have complaints, other than the fininacial ones. "they just have too many supervisors as it is, and it seems like we're always getting another one,"said another woman worker. "And in the mornings we just don't have enough help. That coffee, for instance, will sit there from five in the morning until after lunch, because we just don't have those few extra minutes to re­make it, "she added. 
Some are unhappy with fact that the studentworkers make either more or the same as the ladies. 
"Alot of those boys can just sit down whenever and whereever they please. ' 'We don't do that," one lady said. 
But the same woman em­phasized that she doesn't dislike the students. "They're our boys," she said. "They're the main reason we're working here." 
leftovers thrown out 
The women cannot earn over­
time pay, and are forbidden to take 
home whatever food is left over at 
the end of the day. his leftover food 
Officers elected at Saint Mary's 
by Susan Divita 
Staff Reporter 

Three of the four girls presentlv holding office on the St. Mary's Board of Governance were re­elected, without opposition yesterday. The only office for which two candidates ere running, Student Affairs Commissioner, was won by junior Chris Albosta. 
Ann Smith was re-elected Hall Life Commissioner, a position responsible for all hall functions above and beyond the duties of the hall president. 
Some of the projects the Hall Life Commission helped out with this year were bicycle storage and the re-evaluation of the resident advisor <RA> program. Plans for next year include revising the sign­out system and self-responsible hours and trying to the halls to adapt their own style. Smith said that "any and all suggestions are welcome" 
In the only contested position, Chris Albosta was elected Student Affairs Commissioner over Judy Mrdoian. This p_osition is responsible for all non-hall and non-academic affairs. In the past year this office has helped with the bike storage program and the new lighting on St. Mary's campus. 
Albosta promised, "I will keep in close contact with everyone. I am completely at the disposal of the student body." 
In the two other non-eontested positions, Joan Garrett was re­elected as Legislative Com­missioner, and Mary Celeste <Tess) Lehman was re-elected as Academic Affairs Commissioner. Yesterday's Observer incorrectly 
Harry lyer and Mike Meissner placed first and second in the recent ping-pong tournament. (Staff photo by Paul Joyce) 

NOW RENTING 
c one and two bedroom furnished apartments
A 
Featuring:M + SWIMMING POOL p + COMMUNITY BUILDING 
+ 2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM u APARTMENTS 
+ AIR CONDITIONING
s 
+ 
DISHWASHER 

+ 
RANGE 



v 
+ REFRIGERATOR 
+ 
GARBAGE DISPOSAL 

+ 
TENNIS COURT


+ 
LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM


I 
E 
CAMPUS! 


"APARTMENTS WITH
w 
THE STUDENT IN MIND " 
call 232-5853 for ren~al information or visit crestwood management comr:-any 3012 east edison road, south bend· 
stated that Garrett was running for social Commissioner. 
Blimp excursion 
set for April 6 
"Fat is In" is the theme for 
Saturday's Beaux Arts Ball, "The 
Derigible Excursion." 
The authentic blimp, pilotted by 
'Schlitz von Groszenofun' will 
depart the Architecture Building 
at 9 p.m., April 6. <Estimated 
Time of Arrival back at ND for the 
round-trip ride is 3 a.m. , April 7)_ 
In flight entertainment will be provided by "It-s a Free Ride--, a Detroit recording group, in the derigible lounge which has been cleverly designed to resemble the Architecture Building. gallery. 
The itinerary of the trip is secret but will follow a "star-studded' path. The ephemeral flight will also be videotaped for posterity by Arkie Productions, slyly making everyone a star. 
The derigible dock will also be the site of a free balloon skyfest Friday, a fitting welcome for von Groszenofun. 
Meet this famous flying ace, 
have a gas in his chubby vehicle 
Saturday evening. The cost of the 
round-trip excursion is $4.50 per 
couple. Tickets are available at 
the Blimpport. 


PITTSBURGH® PAINTS 
Student Discounts on Latex Wall Paints 
Home Decor Center College square 7'21 W. McKinley Mishawaka, Ind. 
Ph. 256-1511 Open Mon-Fri 8-6 Sat -8-4 
is ordinarily thrown away. Two years ago a woman was fired for taking food home after being · told do so. 
A common complaint among the women at the dining hall is the daily waste of food. According to these women the dining hall heirarchy is occasionally wasting funds for special meals, such as steak nights, which may be needed in other areas. 
"I think there's plenty of wasting going on everywhere," one lady commented. She used Steak Niaht as an Example. "I mean, how many kids would really complain if we cut out just one steak Night a year, and the students could un­derstand the reason why'. And how many students would really be dissappointed if we failed to celebrate the Year of the Tiger on the Chineses Calendar?" she asked. 
The Dining Hall administrator stated, "we're doing the best we can." "We have everything we need but money," a line lady an­swered. 




SMC COFFEEHOUSE 
HOUISs 
MON-TUES-ntua-ftl 
• AM s.• PM 
WID -SAT 9 M 12 NOON COMPtBE IPICI'ACLI 
SEIVICE AlL I!'I'E OI."S PIESCIIIPTIONS H0N01B 

RoGERS 
ealt


Optical 
189-7109

lOGO ATWELL • OWNH 
This Easter, wear a diamond cross. 
Here, just three from our extensive collection of crosses, of 14K gold and centered with a diamond. ~· 99.50 b. 65.00 c. 79.50 Use one of our own charge plans, or Master Charge/BankAmericard. 


Enrollment in languages decreases 
by Mark Weber 
Staff Reporter 

According to a recent article in Parade magazine, statistics from the Modem Language Association reveal a 9.2 decrease in student enrollment in foreign language courses in American colleges and universities over the past two years. The significant decrease has resulted in major concerns for American educators. 
Professor Robert D. Nuner, chairman and associate professor of the Modern and Classical Language Department, com­mented on the decreasing enrollment and also on the current situation here. "Although the current statistics are perfectly true, the enrollment here at Notre Dame has remained stable," according to Nuner. 
He accredited the stable Notre Dame language enrollment to the University's Sophomore Year Abroad Program and to the ad­mission of women. "Past records show that many more women than men are interested in the foreign language field," Nuner reflected. 
As a result of the decreasing enrollment in foreign language courses, many colleges and universities have altered or discontinued foreign language requirements. This includes ad­mission and graduation requirements. However, Nuner foresees no alterations in the foreign language requirements at Notre Dame. 
"The Dean and most members of 
the language department here favor a foreign language requirement for admission to the University," Nuner responded. He also felt that a language requirement is necessary for Arts and Letters majors. Nuner said, "Language to the Arts and Letters major. is like mathematics to the science major, and anybody who pretends to be humanely educated should have a background in foreign language and culture." 
Nuner also noted that although enrollment in foreign language courses has decreased significantly, enrollment in related areas of foreign culture courses has increased. Indiana University at Bloomington was one example cited bv NunP.r. 
"Also," Nuner added, 
"although general enrollment is 



Classical recital scheduled 
by Paul Waller Memorial Library auditorium. 
Classical guitarist Celestino Romero and Duncan, both Romero and flutist Allen Duncan former residents of Elkhart, Ind., will present a recital on Saturday, began playing together in the April 6, at 8:15 p.m. in the Elkhart Symphony, where Duncan 
Aaron slugs no. 714 
by Milton Richman UPI Sports Editor 

CINCINNATI <UPI) -Hank Aaron hammered his way into baseball history Tliursday equaling Babe Ruth's home ~ record of 714 on his first time up in the first 10 minutes of the 1974 season. 
Aaron stepped to the plate in the National League opener between Atlanta and Cincinnati and sent a 3-1 pitch by Reds righthander Jack Billingham over the left-field fence. 
The game was immediatelly halted as Aaron's fellow Atlanta city policeman on special detail working behind the fence retrieved the ball and it was give~ to Aaron. 
Ruth was also 40 years old the day he hit his 713th home run, on May 2, 1935, while playing for the Boston Braves, precursor of the team that Aaron now plays for. The Braves moved from Boston to Milwaukee and then to Atlanta. 
Aaron's homer came with teammates Ralph Garr and Mike Lum on base and gave Atlanta a quick 3-0 lead. But the Reds eventually won the game, 7-6. 
Braves streamed out of the dugout to congratulate the 40-year-old A • f f f 
Aaron as he crossed home plate. pp01n men S Se The historic homer was wit-
n~ssed by 52,154 fans, including for R.A. hopefuls 
Vtce President Gerald Ford, who, flanked by baseball commissioner Bowei Kuhn, walked onto the field in the pandemonium to congratulate Aaron. 
"Good luck for 715 and good many more. It's a great day for you and a great day for baseball. Congratulations," Frod said. . 
Kuhn presented Aaron a trophy and called him not only one of the "greatest professionals ever to play this game, but also one of the great gentlemen." 
"Thank you, very much," AAaron said. "I'm jusf glad it's almost over with. Thank you," 
ClarP.nce Williams, a Cincinnati 
WE NEED 
YDUR t::\ HELP! \Ill Find out what you cc..1dofor the poor in Southeast Asia 
Thomas A. Dooley Foundation South Bend Committee 
Organizational Meeting Wednesday, April 10 
7:30 PM 409 w. Jefferson, So. Bend 
or write:· 
P.0. Box 1195, So. Bend 
.''""'' 
9....................·-..---.-.-~. ··•lie....-........ . 

Fr. James Flanigan, associate vice-president for student affairs announced Thursday that ap: plicants for resident assistants who have not as yet been in­
.terviewed may call the office for appointments. Office hours are from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m. and 1 to 5 
. The is 8411. 
was prmcipal flutist for nine years. 
Duncan has also played with the Lansing, Michigan Symphony, the Columbia, South Carolina Sym­phony, the West Shore Symphony of Muskegon and the West Michigan Symphony of Winds. 
Fr. Patrick Maloney of the music department said that Celestino Romero studied guitar with the famed Aledonio Romero and also with Vincente Gomez. 
Aledonio Romero is the father of "The Romeros royal family of the guitar," and Gomez is a noted composer and teacher of guitar. 
The admission fee is $2.50 and 
$1.50 for students, and tickets will 
be sold at the door. 
Also as part of the Notre Dame concert series the Quincy College Wind Ensemble and Jazz En­semble presented a concert last night in Washington Hall. From 1968-1970 the Wind Ensemble was named the most outstanding Catholic college or university band in the country. Besides winning a number of other awards the group . has performed throughout the Midwest under conductor Charles Winking and associate conductor Louis Margaglione. 
Many members of the Wind Ensemble also make up the Jazz Ensemble. Conductor Hugh W. Soebbing has turned out many outstanding professional per­formers such as Jim Pankow, arranger and trombonist of the rock group "Chicago." 
Both of these concerts are part of the Notre Dame concert series, sponsored by the Office of Student Mfairs and under the management down, significant increases in the classical languages of Latin and Greek have erupted." Nuner pointed out that three years ago, Notre Dame offered no coursees in Greek and today courses in beginning, intermediate, and 

Looking for a place to get away on Lake Michigan. 
For rent Lodge and cabins during April and-or May. Only 30 min. from cam­pus: Gintaras resort 15860 Lake Shore Rd. Union Pier Mich. Te. 616-469­3298 or 312-737-4515 





SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION 

ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR: 
SOCIAL COMMISSIONER MOVIE CO-ORDINATOR SPECIAL EVENTS COORDINATOR HALL EVENTS COORDINATORS 
Applications only open till Friday. For interview, call 4430, 4824, 5307 

T<Jm McMahon General Agent 
Norm Wallace 

... =· 
I 
, 
T<lm Schirr 
Bill Pumphrey Terry Billger 
'learafter vear, semester Iaftersemcster, the (ollegeM aster· from Fidelity Union Life has lx-cn the most acceph..~ most popular plan on campuses all over America. 
Find out why. 


~all the Fidelity Union CollegeM aster· .Field Associate m your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 

Friday, April 5, 1974 
the observer 

Frosh welcome being planned 
by Mike Riz" The Campus Orientation Coordination Committee under its new chairman Drew Costarino has already begun planning for the 1974 freshman orientation programs. Costarino, who worked on the committee last year, was ap­pointed by newly elected Student Body President Pat McLaughlin to chair this year's group, which presently consists of only four other members. "Most of the work and planning will be done between now and the end of the semester,"stated Costarino. Last year the committee organized the orientation booklet, workshops for hall orientation members, and receptions for in· coming freshmen and their parents. It also sponsored mixers for freshmen and transfer students as well as the activities night and the outdoor carnival. 
The new committee intends to continue that effort and hopes to expand its scope to include a program for incoming minority &~nd foreign students. 
One of the new activities last year was the large dance in Stepan Center for the freshman as an alternative to individual hall dances. This year the committee hopes to find a more suitable format for the program. "We're still looking for an alternative to the freshman mixer," noted Costarino, "because somehow those events never seem to come off too well." 
A great deal of effort during the summer months enters into publishing the orientation booklet, which contains information about the South Bend area, campus facilities and activities, and academic life. Many portions of the book will be rewritten this year, and the committee plans to get the booklet published and distributed to entering students prior to their arrival on campus. 
The committee concentrates upon the basic mechanics of orientation. They provide lists of incoming freshmen to the in· dividual halls and procure meal tickets for orientation workers and transfer students. However, the group also sta~ed the outdoor carnival of the fall semester which featured a picnic and various games on the quads. 
The committee is not affiliated with the Freshman Year Office although it works closely with that staff in the organization of programs. Costarino's group serves toco-Qrdinateindividual hall orientation programs and to bring hall chairmen together to discuss options and consolidate efforts 
For the first time this year there was an orientation program for transfer students to the campus. 
Drew Costarino 

Fuller to speak Monday 
R. Buckminster Fuller, the in­ventor of the geodesic dome, will discuss "Humans in Universe" at 8 
p.m. Monday, AprilS in the Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. Fuller's talk is the final lecture in the College of Engineering's Centennial Lecture Series which commemorates 100 years of engineering education at Notre Dame. 
Currently, the 78 year-Qld ar­chitect-inventor is Distinguished University Professor at Southern Illinois University and World Fellow in Residence in the Con­sortium of the University of Pennsylvania, Haverford College, Swarthmore College, Bryn Mawr College, and the University City Science Center. 
Although best known for the geodesic dome, Fuller holds 24 
Senior women 



dinner tonight 

The Notre Dame senior women II will gather tonight for a dinner and alumni presentation. Represen­tatives from the Alumni Association explain what it is like to be a Notre Dame alumni. 
A cover charge of $1.00 will be 

collected at the door. Participants who eat the North and South 
Dining Halls are urged to bring be&UX artS,~~ball
their meal cards. "' 
For more information, contact --fJ ~" \~ Mary Beth Tammers 8020, Ann APt.H. e,Le><:t. Arbour 2141, or Kathy Kelly 6845. -'"U..J..Ulll-----------+ 

SEE harry shaffer AT GATES CAEVROLET FOR TRANSPORT ON SPECIALS 
patents for inventions ranging freY a floating breakwater and a needle-like "rowing device" to a paperboard frame and a three· wheeled automobile. 
His current interests include applying design science to maximize use of the world's resources and provide a higher standard of living for humanity without war. He has developed a World Game based on his in­ventory of world resources showing this would be possible to accomplish. 
Fuller haswritten widely on technology's effect on the future and a range of topics from the population explosion to ~eosocial 
plannin~ a"t'fkl~ eall Thr 234­\\Mdmg Photo~raplu 
234-51122 M1CHAB. LONER 
~~ 
..
~ 
~~ ~ 1l-\E. 
TELL HIM HOW MUC YOU CAN' 
SPEND·· 

333 Western Avenue South Bend, Ind. 46601 
AND 0 HE'LL DO C? THE REST! ! 
Thank you Harry Shaffer Student Representative 
288-1421 
.,•... : ~'"' ,,, · , . . 1 

revolution. He is editor-at-large for World Magazine for which he regularly writes a column. 
Among the boiks which Fulller has written are Operating Manual fornSpaceship Earth, The untitled Epic Poem on the History of In­disutrialization, and The Dymaxion World of Buckminster Fuller. 
The lecture is free and open to 
Next year the committee also plans to work with the Housing Office to provide information to off-campus students. Presently the group is seeking new members who may apply in the student governm~m.t office Friday, Ap~l5, or the following Monday and Tuesday. The work of the com­mittee is concentrated between now an the end of the year with a possible overlap of a few days during the summer for organization and booklet revision. 




TRY IT 
For the sixtemth straight year theCollegiate Jwa Festival will present sane of the best amateur and professmal jazz musicians in the country. And it aD happms this weekend at St~ Cmter. Come hear more than twEnty bows of jazz from more than twEnty tq> college jarz bands, and professiooal jazz musicians like Billy Hmper, Roy Haynes, Bill W aJtrous and Charlie HadEn. Come to the free Symposium Thursday night at the library 
auditormm and to the music ~ions Friday and Saturday. It'D be a weekend you woo't soon forget. 
.

sympOSIUm: thursday 7:30pm sess1ons: friday 7:30pm
. fl·OO
saturday 1:00pm 2.00 saturday 7:3qpm $4.00 all three sess1ons $7.00 

tickets on sale at the s.u. ticket office, Iafortune­the dining halls thursday & friday dinners­. pandoras -boogie records 

·azz festival
·.,._,.._....... ~ ..... _............... :&M 0 

School house Too 
In the Brewery 
100 Center Complex 
Mishawaka, Ind. 
Phone • 259-8181 
The midwest's most complete needlepoint shop 
10 percent discount upon presentation 

of student I D MONDAY-SATURDAY, 10am-9pm SUNDAY, 12 
m-6 m SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 


$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just 
mention this ad. Effective. any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
Thru June 15th, 1974 except May 18 and 19. 

HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 


6 

the observer Friday, April s, 1974 




In The Halls 
Under The Dome... 
During a time of Watergate, energy crisis, and gasoline shortage, it is·often a welcome relief to turn to the homefront of Du Lac. Hopefully, with time, the need for articles on "Coeducation" will subside, and we'll 'all turn our attention once again to the total Notre Dame experience. However, until that day arrives, I offer these insights from a Rector's point of view. 
Although still in its infancy, the entire coeducational experience has been for many a time of limitless challenge and unpredictable experiences. Since its inception back in September, 1972, coeducatio~ has continued to grow and is fostering that special kmd of love for this place in its new coeds, which has been for so long a part of its male population. 
However, with growth there is always pain-a talk with any of the former residents of Badin, Walsh, Farley, or Breen-Phillips is ample evidence. Especially for the guys who became "exiles" from Walsh, then Farley, and now Lyons-their contribution to making "coeducation" work has gone beyond 
measure. For the new coeds, I have found them to be for the most part excited, challenging and spirited. They are here for a countless number of reasons, but primarily to obtain a fine education. They, just like the Notre Dame men, are searching-searching for academic pursuits while seeking values, goats, and a fresh and more meaningful outlook on life. Again just like Notre Dame men they have much to contribute and give of themselves, and perhaps because of this common bond, the transition has generally gone well. Since I am most familiar with residence hall life, most of my insights are from that vantage point. Hall life, in my opinion, should compliment one's stay at the University-it must be a place of constant interaction. 1 have found the best way of trying to contribute to making this place a better one is to strive for greater interaction-between roommates, residences and staff, guys and gals, students and· faculty and ad­ministration. Only in this way can a "commmunity" grow and develop. Through interaction In a greater sense of sensitivity, awareness, and patience can be developed. For example, many of the commonly misplaced stereotypes would be eliminated if people 
The fact that I was asked to comment on the progress of coeducation at Notre Dame aises an interesting question In my mind: Do many In our community assume that the recruitment and admissions process of our ale applicants are the responsibility of only the female admissions officers? This Is not the case. Each admissions counselor is responsible for recruitment within a geographical region. In this way, each of us visits male, female, coeducational, Catholic and public high schools within our region, explaining admission requirements, ms of study, and campus life. In we are still "breaking the our being a co-educational It is interesting to note the of female applicants with In regions: Mid-west--29percent, --25 percent, New York and New 
, , I 

by Lisa Brooks 

Lisa Brooks is an Admissions Counselor for the University. 
Jersey--21 percent; New England and West Coast--19 percent, and South and Southwest --26 percent. 
Specifically to answer the question of how coeducation at Notre Dame Is giong, we are experiencing no difficulty in getting ap­plications from women. For the 197-4 Fresh­man Class we have received over 1300 ap­plications for the 375 available spaces for women. In our first year of coeducation, 1972, 125 Freshman women were accepted from an applicant pool of 1134. Many of these young ladles ranked in the top 10 percent of their graduating class. Our current Freshman class has 400 women who were accepted from a comparable applicant pool, and with the increase in female enrollment a wider range of high school class rank was possible. In fact, the range Is comparable to the upper 20 oercent class rank of the malestudentspresent. We do not 

by Kathy Cekanski 
Kathy Cekanski is rectress of Breen-Phillips Hall. 
took the time to relate to one another. Since an academic institution by its very nature is competitive, it is highly unlikely that the Notre Dame men and women will ever obtain meaningful friendships if their basic contact is in the academically competitive classroom. Thus the challenge for the community is to provide alternatives to the classroom and dining hall situations. Granted that many guys and gals are meeting and becoming friends, however, so much more can and must be done. The renovation of the La Fortune Student Center should help provide areas and places of greater interaction. Greater utilization of the Bulla Shed would also provide a place where people can go, with no strings attached, and just meet one another. 
The challenge, too, is put on each of the residence halls. The need for greater interaction between student-faculty-administration is most evident. 
Informal coffee hours in the halls could help provide a non-pressured atmosphere where people can learn more about each other just as people, and hopefully, greater understanding will follow. Revitalized hall fellows programs would also provide a means of greater interaction. Greater co-operation between the halls in jointly sponsored events whether it be building a booth for Mardi Gras or planning an event for Logan Center would also aid in this endeavor. Through greater interaction the new Notre Dame experience will become more natural and rewarding. Since this place is founded on a long tradition of excellence, has a strong and dedicated committment from its faculty and adminstratlon, and an enthusiastic student body, hopefully we will all benefit from this experience. However, In order to grow, we need room to grow, patience to think, values to pursue, and Ideas to challenge. Only if we revitalize our efforts and rededicate ourselves to channel our Notre Dame spirit into greater caring and understanding for each other, will this place continue to grow. For only through such efforts will the Notre Dame men and women make any difference in the world when they leave this place. Unless we all accept this challenge, not only the University and each of us will lose, but so too will the world around us. Peace ... 
have the academic profile of the Incoming freshmen yet, but all Indications are that the women and men will again have com­parable records. Perhaps the one noticeable difference in the women applicants Is in their choice of major. On the percentage, more women indicate a major in the College of Arts and Letters than men, and fewer women select-Engineering. The Colleges of Science and Business Administration show almost equal percents of male and female students. When one considers that this reflects the actual enrollment of the colleges themselves, it is not too surprising. 
In general, then, it can be said that Notre Dame has met with success In becoming coeducational, at least from the admissions point of view. The only disappointment our office experiences Is In not being able to 
accept more of ·the highly qualified women, prospective students. 
Par 
Co-Education a 
who submit applications for admission because we have so few spaces available to them; but this pool of more than 3 112 to 1 (that Is, for each available space we receive Jlf2 applications) we must tell many qualified men and women that we can not accomodate them at our university. 
It becomes apparent that the real questions begged by this type of statistical analysis are (1) how successful do our un­dergraduate women feel they have been In helping to change the history of Notre Dame and (2) how does the Notre Dame community feel coeducation is going? We in the Admissions Office would welcome responses to these questions. Such in­formation would certainly help us in 1m­parting the Notre Dame story as we con­tinue to visit high schools and talk with 
Friday, 


\, 






Ication ·t 1 
For Real 
• 
by Trish Moore 
Trish Moore is a Junior Government major from Attleboro, Massachusetts. 
With approximately 825 women attending Notre Dame, we are called a co-ed institution. But does co­education in fact exist here? Most people would say no. 
A quick survey of the situation leads one to im­mediately conclude that the small proportion of women to men at Notre Dame is cause for the lack of a true co­ed atmosphere. This is indeed a valid point. But I contend that mere numbers, although an integral part of the problem, is not the strongest force working against co-education. 
The question with which we must deal is one of at­titudes. The decision to admit women to Notre Dame was poorly researched and hastily reached. It was-felt that women were needed to fill an academic and social void. Thus, without further thought, a couple of dorms were "remodeled", some women admitted, and Notre Dame became a co-ed university. It is futile to say now, as some do, that the administrttion acted blindly, that perhaps Notre Dame should never have gone co­ed. The situation exists and it is irreversible. 
A look at the attitudes resulting from the decision will be helpful in determining where we should go from here. Men of the junior and senior classes still view Notre Dame as a male school with women merely residing on the campus; those of the other two classes, lured here with the promise of a co-educational ex­perience, have yet to find it. The adminstration, with a smile of satisfaction, turns back to the more important aspects of managing their "Christian community". With a few instances of preferential or discriminatory behavior, the faculty are likewise non-committal. In face of this unconcern and even outright hostility, the women themselves have adopted an attitude of general unconcern aboutthe problems of co-education. 
What is needed at Notre Dame Is a sincere comltt­ment to co-education-not in word but in action-by all members of the community. In this respect, the students can and must be the moving force. We all loudly proclaim the need for more informal gathering places to foster a social and cultural atmosphere which is non-existent on this campus. Yet few are willing to take the initiative. Innovations should begin within the individual halls a~ they are the core of student life on campus. Hall funds should be allocated and utilized towards the creation and funding cf informal co-ed activities, rather than for the traditional purposes of purchasing pool tables and color T.V.'s. 
A second suggestion is for the creation of student art shows and concerts to be held outside during the fall and spring. Not only would this aid the interac1on among men and women at Note Dame, but it would also help to fill the great cultural void on this campus by giving student artists and musicians an opportunity to display their talents. Student talent can also be employed in the proposed coffee house in LaFortune and in similar situations within the halls. 
In addition, students should insist upon participating in the decisions to admit more women and to create the necessary housing to accomodate them. 
Finally, the administration must be made to realize that co-education cannot be successful unless drastic changes are made in their attitude toward student life. 
This picture, I admit, is less than optimistic. It is somewhat encouraging to know that attitudes do change in time; that perhaps in 5 years or so, co­education will be a happy reality at Notre Dame. But for most of us, our concern is for the present. It is time to reject the attitude that we have to live with the situation as it exists. Each one of us must make a personal committment to see that co-education is an important and happy aspect of our lives at Notre 
Dame. 

When I was asked to write about my feelings on the evolution of co-education at the University of Notre Dame I im­mediately balked at the Idea, mainly because It seemed that the last person writing about co-education at Notre Dame should be a senior graduating from St. Mary's College. However, the four years I have spent at the University of Notre Dame­St. Mary's College community have been extremely formative as far as co-education Is concerned and perhaps I do have more to say than I originally thaought. 
Having served on the advisory com­mission for co-education at Notre Dame In my sophomore year, I guess I had a fair amount to. say about the Initiation of women into an all male community, particularly 
Naturally my first concern was the reaction of women to this all-male en­vironment, and ,of course, the opposite reaction. There was the problem of physical requirements and the age old problem with a new twlst:how were Notre Dame women and women at St. Mary's going to react to one another? At this point It would be foolish to beg In to make any judgement on a program that is only two years of age. Maybe after ten or fifteen years of hard work co-education in the true sense of the word might be accomplished. This Is not meant to take away credit from 90 percent of the Student Body at Notre Dame which Is trying to make co-education a working and viable system. This type of change needs to evolve over a lengthened period of time. 1 

... Across The Lake 
by Barbara McKiernan 
Barbara McKiernan is Student Body President at St. Mary's College. 
.___________.;.._;...___________________________ 

There Is one thing among many that I see, campuses. It Is quite easy for each group however, as a way to bring the situation to to sit on their side of the ring and ask, "Wh'f better ends. That Is keeping an open and should I bother with the girls from Notre honest communication going between the Dame and or St. Mary's College?" What women of Notre Dame and thewomenof St. will take more· time and patience Is par­Mary's College. There is a wealth of itlclpatlon on a council that might-help knowledge and experience to be learned by people's minds to other people, be they men both groups and to deny each other those or women. This is my most serious concern benefits Is not only wrong but wasteful. St. as the class of '74 graduates In May ... Mary's women really do experience dlf-girls who have strong ties between ferent educational pressures and social schools become fewer and fewer. pressures than Notre Dame women, and University of Notre SDame Is to become vice-versa. I am by no means trying to co-educational In the most fulfilling sense exclude men from the scene but It Is a rather the word, then the communication gross understatement to say that for the advice among the women cannot be broken. most part their role Is established at Notre In the long run we are aiL here Dame. education. To deny ourselves the 
perlence of other people Is the 
Recently there has been an attempt to 
violation education that
against
one as traditional as Notre Dt\IT,e. 
think we are all aware of this.. plan and start a council for women of both 
~·--···-­
Imagine . 
... ,-........... -. ' ~ .. ., to',. • .. ... _, ' 'I> ' •• "' ' • ' 
THE OBSERVER all smiles_____ 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER EDITORIALS: 283-8661 NEWS: 283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Tom Drape Editor-In-Chief AnnMcC.rry Marlene Zloza 
The Lady's Choice 
Editorial Editor Managing Editor 
LeeGentine Terry Keeney John Kloos News Editor Advertising Manager 
Business Manager 

--------j.amantea
Friday, April 5, 1974 
Dedicato a Dicky, Hamlet, Maria e Geraldo


0-C Security 
Scritto per tutte le donne specialment per Shea. 
An article about attempted rapes near 
campus, run in The Observer on1 
Wednesday, demonstrates one of the 
deficiencies . presently found in the 
University Security Department. The 
article related two successful rapes, two 
unsuccessful attempts, and the narrow 
escape of a student and his girlfriend who 
had been hitchhiking along Notre Dame 
Avenue. 
A captain from the South Bend police 
force stated, "Both case.. reported to us 
were due to hitchhiking, and we are 
trying to discourage this practice. These 
people are old enough to realize that they 
shouldn't be hitchhiking." 
Arthur Pears, director of Security at 
Notre Dame, commented "We have not 
had any rapes on our campus in a number 
of years." 
One gets the impression that the 
student who becomes victim to a crime 
off-campus has nowhere to turn. The 
local community officials care little for 
students, because they are temporary 
residents in the community. Notre Dame 
Security has restricted itself to handling 
crimes on campus, and offers no 
protection or aid to the student once he 
leaves this area. 
During the Student Body Presidential · campaigns, it was pointed out repeatedly 
that off-campus students have become 
sitting ducks for robbery and theft in 
their homes. Now, it appears that the 
student who leaves campus for a simple 
night out also is marked. Criminals 
operate with renewed ease and con­
fidence when the chances that they will 
be prosecuted are minimal. At 
present, chances are minimal. 
Since more and more students are 
moving off-campus next year, it seems 
necessary that -some agency be 
the observer 

Night Editor: Bill Brink 
Assistant Night Editor: Andy Praschak Layout: Jim Donathen, AI Rutherford Copy Editors: Greg Rowinski, Jim Eder Day Editors: Val Zurblls, George Velclch Editorials: Fred Graver, Ann McCarry, Tom Drape Features: J.R. Baker Pictures: Albert D'Antonio Graphics: Jim Rosini Sports: Greg Corgan Electrician: Joe Abell Typists: Joe Abell, Claire Kelly, Bill Menk, Mike Seidel .Compugraphic: Joe Abell Night Controller: Joe Abell 

the rains 
the wet dogs me, not just my heels but cuffs and coat and hair, I saw twogirlsstomp a puddle they like the wet of ralns­1 don't: the damp percipitates petty hours that sour worse than milk 
and lines that do not rhyme
.... 
-F'MF!._It 
established to help protect and insure the rights of students involved in off-campus crimes. This can be accomplished through the Ombudsman, the Legal Aid service, a special agency of Student Government, the Security Department, or any other existing or newly-formed organization that would be willing to work in conjunction with the South Bend Police Department. 
It is just one more step necessary to provide the off-campus and on-campus student with a safe and decent standard 
of living. -Fred Graver 
Post a Letter 
This week the Notre Dame Post Office, under order of the Sectional Postmaster of South Bend cut the delivery in half. First class mail is now delivered only in the morning.
Post Office officials claim that the added time necessary for the sorting of the afternoon mail produced the need for overtime pay for post office employees, a strain the budget could not accomodate. 
Officials have commented that the afternoon delivery could be reincarnated, however, with the help of student government and the pressure, interest and cooperation of the student body. 
Think about it. If you would be getting mail this afternoon you might find an unexpected check from Grandpa or Aunt Schnitzel to finance the weekend. Why not write a letter to the postmaster? The address is: 
Postmaster of South Bend 
424 S. Michigan St. 
South Bend, Indiana 46624 
-Ann McCarry 

... and still she lingers with us. 
Sitting on this bench beside the lake, we recall the falling, flying, 
strands of auburn hair; the brown eyes which would break and 
laugh at us, at our little games, and our magnolias put in water by 
the mirror; the tanned and deceptively fragile face, often smiling 
and twisting into expresssions of the lightest kind, though masking 
the depths of the most pained thoughts, expressions, unspokens 
which we can never know, can never posess. Recollecting, alone, 
every moment, every picture of our time with her-times 
awakened by the hushing wind through the trees on the island, or 
the steel, dying whine of the train horns (coming from where we 
cannot guess(-we see ourselves tracing every footstep walked or 
danced since first we met : 
a movie in an auditorium; a concert; if fortunate enough, a formal 
boutinniered evening; a midnight wine; a walk about the lake, the 
lapping waves punctuating a touching silence; and the hollow 
strokes of heels on the walk leading from her room. 
Then, we had invested, exposed, and betrayed our secret. We 
confided. We saw the smile wane a bit each day, every day; when 
we had to see her, whenever the thought of her would touch us as 
the soft pass of a ringed finger over our shoulders and around our 
necks. We came too close to violating a heart of hearts. We gave 
too much, we acted too quickly, we spoke too soon. 
And, can we blame her for being frightened? For being afraid of 
having a rose horizon trammelled and narrowed by a man who has 
no right to do so, and if he did, would be criminal? When our 
cutting glances betrayed a jealousy-but, even more dangerous, an 
obscene desire to know and share an intimacy with every face, 
facet, and fantasy of her yougn life-and she felt a warm and 
captive embrace, and she not every reason to fight and kick against 
the imminent capture by a man who, days before, was a stranger? 
A final "talk", the choked word, the fallen face and glance fixed 
on the ground, and freedom. So once again, we realize that we 
somewhere failed; this was not what we had meant at all. The 
fresh days which we had intended became stale and now we are let 
out to wander like so much bad air, carrying within us the broken 
words, by now cliche, and the voice in us screaming that this 
relation, this woman, this solemnity was a foolish, wasted use of 
time. These are our times in solitary, and so we become terrifying 
men. 
The interlude ended, we then faced the ugly introspection. We were consciously called before the inner mirror to rewrite the mistaken minutes; to strike the pocked complexions of the wrong nights, the impetuous words, and the blind actions; to add the resolutions coming too late; to be hastily thrust into the arms of a cold night. And all too often this reflection ended in a bitterness, in a silent vengeance which left us as poorly written characters on the other side of the galss saying nothing, and editing new back stabs and bitch epithets. Ever considerate of the lady. Even to the end. 
"Gentlemen," I heard this penitent man on the bench whisper before the waves of his audience, "because there are so few of them among us, and because it is so easy to break them, send them bursting in a hundred tears if we impose or burden with a con­fidence at the wrong time, we owe to these intruders, these ladies none but our best words, our most poetic lines, our finest hours. We are forced into a deeper sensitivity and consideration that sur­passes the old 'shut up and lie down' that we learned with the girls back home. Whether we are joined with them for a moment seen through the green glass bottom of a wine bottle or exchanging words from close lips in a dark room, we must present ourselves before them in our most lucid pictures. This is a challenge, I insist. Here, we separate the veterans and competents from the Triple­A's. Those of us with the most intelligent, scrupulous (or non­scrupuious), sharp and elaborately strategic abilities succeed. Not all of us are so endowed ...Either we have it or we do not. The decisions rests upon the smile of the Lady 
for whom my hopeless mire· of words is spoken." 

Letters Ta A Lanely Gad 

the second time i say goodbye 
r_•v•r•nd rabert rariffin 

The second time I said goodbye was like accepting a grief, as at the death of a friend, that I was helpless to refuse. It had been a nightmare summer when I loved alone in a rectory close to the sea. The phone was always ringing with the news of tragedy and the loss of beauty I loved best. In the beginning of the summer, sleep wouldn't come in the summer nights; at the end, sleep was the only escape I could find; but it was a sleep brought on by prescriptions, and dangerous enough so that I could have died. But even when I slept, without peace or dreams, God showed no mercy to my mother's house. By the first week in August, it was evident that my two years of caring for my mother, brother, and sister were not enough. There was neither health nor wealth left to that little family, and I was too heartbroken to know how to save them. 
August of '65 was the month when my crisis peaked. Without permission of the pastor (summering at a nearby lake) or my provinicial, I left the rectory in Maine, and changed my place of aloneness to a hotel room in Boston, where I wouldn't be bothered by crickets, and I spent two weeks there, trying to figure out where I should go and what I should do. I had spent two years in constant motion, teaching in one state and caring for the helplessness of my family in another. Tens of thousands of dollars had been spent on hospitals and nursing homes, doctors and therapists until finally, one bankrupt day, we had stripped the imported dishes and the crystal glassware off the china closet shelves to pay for the nursing care my mother needed. Mter this near impoverishment, there was only more sickness and more bills, and problems of hospitalization we had not begun to deal with. 
So for two weeks, I lived by myself in a 
Boston hotel and wondered what in God's 
"Well, they've been getting away with that it cannot be returned to normal activity murder, literally," he said leaning back at through therapeutic means or continued aid this desk. Stanley M. Hauerwas, an by such devices as artificial lungs, assistant professor in the theology depart-pacemakers or dialysis machines. ment, was talking about scientists and the Hauerwas says there is yet another facet moral probelms that confront them. As to the charged question of death and tr­hespokeof life and death matters, a child's ansplants. It is in the arguments that lively and colorful drawings pasted on the society or a recipient might have a he office wall gave contrast to the proprietary right to an organ. While society conversation. · . . needs heroic individuals willing to make 
Hauerwas, an ethicist, says that most sacrifices contends Hauerwas it would be scientis~ ha':e avoided ~or~l issues in-unjust to ~nforce such an ethi~ as a duty. volved .m the~ wor~. Scie~tists, he sa~s, "No one has a right to another's body." He have ~ed tohi~ebehmd a claun of neutrality sees a very basic conflict today between by saymg their proc~ ar:e neutral_ and science and human values. One assumption that. only th~ results raiSe eth1cal9uest1ons. is that you can limit certain peoples' rights 
BIO-medical developments m organ and protection for the good of mankind The 
transplants, genetic research and human experimentation are some of the areas where new technology intensifies questions of life, dying l!nd_death. 
The new ability to transplant human organs makes more urgent the moral and legal questions faced by doctors. . . the question of whether the person from whom they are taking a vital organ really is dead. While scientific and medical advances help them sustaining a patient until a donated organ arrives, doctors still are under pressure to remove the organ as quickly as possible. There's a limit to how long both the organ and the receiving patient can be kept alive. With these conflicts, notes Hauerwas, doctors now are saying we need to update the definition of the moment of death. Is it merely when a heart stops beating'? Or is it when a person stops breathing'? What about brain wave tests'? Perhaps it's a combination of these. 
When he speaks of death, Hauerwas says he simply means a transition from the state of being alive to the state of being dead. "But what dies is the organism as a whole, not various organs or cells." He says a necessary condition is that one of the major organs has ceased to function to the extent 
name I must do. Next door, just outside my window, was the Tremont Temple Baptist Church; during their services, I could hear those Baptists singing: "Oh, God, our help in ages past, our hope for years to come ... " I envied them their faith. I couldn't see where God was either Help or Hope; and to tell the truth, I thought I was at the end of my priesthood. I could have gone home to Maine, and found a job; but I didn't know how to give up being a priest. The priesthood was the greatest dream I ever had, and from the time I graduated from high school, it was my stongest ambition. I have seen men, who never made it to or­dination, ruined by their dream of the priesthood. They work around sacristies and rectories, serving Mass and Benedic­tion, and wearing cassocks, if they only dust the church. They read brevaries and other monkish books. They know all the gossip of the diocese: which curates are cheeky, and who are the pastors that drink. In every way they can, they live as priests, but they never made it to a seminary; and you know, s they know, they have been cheated of their dream. It is not easy to think of joining the 
ranks of those whom the Irish sometimes call "ruined priests." 
My choices, that summer, were clear: if I remained in the Community as priest I would have to accept the Provincial's decision, and move away from the stress and fret of family care to a distant place like Notre Dame, turning over my responsibilities as son and brother to relatives or the safe-keeping of institutions. Or, trying my hand at some secular em­ployment, I could continue to do what, for two years, I had so self-destructively done, and care for my family myself. The options offered by authority seemed so casual and detached, but they weren't. Authority was dealing with a shell-shocked priest, who had nearly ruined himself. The choice I made to 
questions of an ethicist 
_..r--·\ .,.. :. · 
,,,.. 1, )lui I '11<:. ' 
,·,. ~~·;l''..,..1.... ·.• •·;.1,"'l''•'•' .'",.t,•', 10 'J,~I ..·,.( ... :.f~C..• ........i>#f,,~ .• t, 0 t,,;( <' • • •.," ~ • •.,.,
4 4 
by harry kevorkian 



uncornmon 
glimps~s 
second assumption is that there are some things you don't do, even though they might be good for society, because they violate the rights of one person. 
The question of individual rights becomes a crucial matter in what Hauerwas describes as one of the crashing bio-medical issues-human experimentation. What are the safeguards'? Free consent is needed the lawyers say. But is it enough and is it proper'? Should it be allowed'? How does one go about it'? 
Hauerwas cties an example of some ex­perimentation by a group of doctors in geriatric wards in New York City. They told the patients they were experimenting with human cells. The doctors told the old people they wanted to put the cells in them to see what would happen. But why they didn't say was the cells were cancerous. There is an ethical question of how much should be explained to a patient. 
And Hauerwas says the same k,ind of questions arise in routine medical practice. A patient has to give free consent for such things as a gall bladder operation. But there's no way a patient can really know if he needs one. Hauerwas says some doctors resent the free consent idea. They think it may be needed to protect them legally. But they don't pay much attention to it morally, doctors knowing what's best for the patient. 
He says the coupled issue of free consent and individual rights is especially poignant when it comes to human experimentation with children. Take drugs for children. Because of their unique ~etabolism, go to Notre Dame must seem selfish; but I have never pretended it was unselfish to be ordained against the desires and wishes of a Protestant family. 
In the end, it was my mother who said the deciding word. It was she who broke the impasse unresolved by vigils in a Boston hotel room; it was she who recogninzed the love underlying a Provincial's directive. "Oh, really," she said, "You're nearly forty years old. It's a little late to be making changes like that. I pray that you will have the faith to believe that God will take care of us all." That is not all she said, but it's the practical part. Her words gave me the courage and grace to say goodbye to her for a second time, as though it were August again of '49, and I was going off to the novitiate that would commit me by vows to the religious life. So, like an exile, I returned to Indiana, where I had been a student; leaving, as I supposed the best and brightest part of myself in the East, and grieving as though I had lost paradise. 
Now it is nearly Easter, and next week, I shall go once more to the little house in Maine, where my mother lives close to the sea. I shall look into her eyes and see suf­fering; I shallook into her face and see pain. 
I shall look at her hands and see the cost of 
sacrifice. I shall hold her in my arms, and 
say I have missed her. Then we shall sit and 
talk, like the folks in Shakespeare who told 
sad stories of the death of kings. We shall 
drink tea and enjoy laughter, and I will tell 
her of moppets and urchins and Darby 
O'Gill. But she will know that even for me, 
life is not all cuteness, though I will never 
speak to her of suffering, treating all New 
York as though it were a breakfast at Tif­
fany's. With pride and love, she will ask 
about Ara and the students, and Hesburgh 
and the team, as though coaches and 
presidents were interchangeable; and 
anyway, if they aren't, what makes the 
difference'? These are the people,she will 
think, in the life of her son. They made him alive again, when he was nearly dead with grief. Prescriptions are not now needed for his sleep and hi~ dreaming. Notre Dame is what his priesthood gave hime in addition 
The story of the second time I said goodbye is a journey into sadness I did not care to make, but it is, perhpas a necessary preface to something I want to say. 
When I came back to Notre Dame after the travails of the summer of '65, there was a family waiting here to recieve me: the religious family of Holy Cross. It was their love that received me, their strength that supported me, their faith that healed me. Whatever beauty I celebrate in life...whether of urchins or students or my puppy sporting in the grass .. .it is a beauty given me through the family life of Holy Cross when it sheltered the priesthood of a life in ruins. Whatever is accomplished by the priests and brothers of Holy Cross on these acres of faith or anywhere else in the world--I have accomplished, whatever diminshes them, diminshes me. Likewise, when I ·fail Christian graciousess, it is a failure in the ministry of Holy Cross. If I honor God in my heart, it is part of the prayer of our community in Christ. 
The life of the community of Holy Cross is 
part of the family life of Notre Dame. 
Admisnistrators, lay faculty, dining hall 
cooks-they are my brothers and sisters. 
I must love them, and be open to them, just 
as I love students and try to be part of their 
lives, and hope they will be part of mine. 
None of us here is an· island. We diminish 
one another by our pettiness, just as we 
enrich each other by being gentle in all the 
ways of Christian graciousness. 
Sometimes the words we are capable of 
repudiate so much of what we believe and 
what we have written of Christian 
graciousness, that we must be more grieved 
than anyone else by the injury we have done 
ourselves. 
children are needed for tests of the practical effectiveness of the drugs. In some cases, there are immedite health needs of the children; the experimental drugs might help them. But thereare other cases where immediate health needs are not seen. 
In homes for the retarded, parents sign over consent to the institution and an ad­ministrator can give consent for a whole population. That's convenient for the ex­perimentors who can have control groups and give the drugs to some children and not to others. Hauerwas asks and answers his own question:' "Is it moral'? Clearly not." 
Hauerwas suggests scientists are slow in awareness of the ethical questions that grow with scientific advances. He says they ought to be more keen on understanding the m.orallogicthat they embody but don't know they embody. It especially applies to doctors as the idea of health expands. 
They must be forced to face such questions as: should every child be kept alive that you can keep alive with new technology. . .should doctors keep alive those whose quality of life is not what we normally expect. ..does a mongoloid count? 
The ethicist describes doctors as not very reflective. They don't like ambiguities. Doctors want things cut and dried. "Doc­tors are the closest thing you can get to the status of what the priest used to be in the church. That is a highly charged, moral profession. And doctors are not being prepared for it." 
But Hauerwas is not criticizing the doc­tors for assuming the role of priests of a new magic. We have thrust it on them. "Doctors are right that people don't want to know the kind of decisions they have to make. We want to keep it a great secret. We want to think of them as guys who will save us from the Four Horsemen. We don't want to know that every once and a while they have to let 
us die." ·....... ,·. 
.,• ' .... " ,; 


Attn: 
St. Mary's 
Dear Editor, 
Last year I was appointed Social Commissioner for St. Mary's College. Letters were sent to students and companies, events were planned, appointments made, etc... It all worked out-a little less than I had hoped, but it was functional. 
Now there'as a new sturcture being set up. The people on the commission have evaluated things and changes have been made. Next week sometime hopefully there will be some appointments made. . .a new social com­missioner, special events coor­dinator, movei coordinator, and four hall events coordinators. The question now is dow we need a commission to organize social events on campus? The only way we on the commission can answer that question is in terms of ap­plications. If no one applys who is reallyh interested in working then obviously the students must feel that the commission is a waste of time. 
Personally I would like to be able to go to some first rate movies on my own campus, or know that I could take an hour stuudy break to go to that swim party on Thursday night or bon fires, or dances, or trips to the Dunes, or an in­teresting speaker, or any number of things. Notre Dame is nice, and so is Nickle's or the Library.. .sometimes. But why couldn't I just stay on campus? 
It's up to the St. Mary's Students. 
Applications will be accepted for the above positions this week. Interviews will be held next week and appointments made. . .if there's reason to have them. Is there, or should we just quit? 
Denise Peterson 

Streaking reaction 
Dear Editor: 
In Tuesday's Observer, Fr. Terrance Lally cited a university crack down on streaking. Yale was mentioned as a university reacting strictly against steakers, and Ireland, Fr. Lally said, is placing streakers in jail. Well, many universities have favorable reactions to streakine:. The 
WANT TO WORK ON 



orientation 
applications accepted 
FRIDAY MONDAY TUESDAY IN THE 

student govf. office 
2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE 

for info call: 2668 
University of North Carolina in Lafayette College believe that streaking is admissable, as long as it is confinced to campus. And ·I can mention many countries in South American and Mrica to Fr. Lally where streaking has been tolerated for centuries. 
Any university policy against streaking just aids to put Notre Dame behind the times. While the University has no policy against panty raids, why should she be against streaking? An organized streak in our day and age probably has a greater social value than any panty raid can ever have. Not only does a mass streak promote unity and togetherenss of men (and women), but it is the most advance mechanism for tension release of the masses in society today. There is no place at any college for perversion, but the prohibition of good, clean fun and excitement of the masses is a disgrace to any university. Wtih nationwide coverage of streaking appearing in national news magazines, the student at du lac is forced to sit back and realize the he-she is missing a valuable contemporary part of college life. TheDean of Student Mfairs at the University of North Carolina called their streak to a national record of 924 bodies "a big display of campus spirit." Dean Macheca is surely proud of du lac's spirit, why can we not be allowed to show it? The campus streets were blocked off by security in Chapel Hill for UNC's streak to the title. Wouln't Arthur Pears be just the man to handle a parade route at du lac? 
The TIME magazine Issue of March 18, 1974 lists the University of Georgia as having the largest streak with 1,543 bodies and the University of Florida having the most spectators at a streak with some 6,000 people. It's about time du lac has the opportunity to bare the facts on this ridiculous 
streaking crackdown! The warm weather is here! 
Siocerely, Fielding Nelish Exchange Student from San Marcos. 
Disappointing 
Dear Editor: 
Fr. Toohey's tribute to Bob Dylan contained statements that ought not to pass without comment in a university community which values either factual accuracy or a 
University Chaplain we deserve better. Yours sincerely, Bernard Norling History Dept. 

Tribe alive 
Dear Editor: 
Re: Greg Corgan's -The Irish Eye in April 4 Issue 
As a native of Northern Ohio I am disappointed with your writer's opinion of the Cleveland Indians. Although they may not be headed towards the pennant this year, they will certainly be a com­petitive team. Last year they led the A.L. in homeruns and after 
.. The All-Star Break only Baltimore had a better winning percentage in A.L. East. Spring training may not count but the 

Tribe currently has the third best ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


SUNDAY MASSES 
MAIN CHURCH 
5:15 p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:30 a.m. Sun. Fr. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C. 
10:30 a.m. Sun. Fr. Carl Dehne, S.J. 
12: 15 p.m. Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
4:30 p.m. Sun. Evensong -Lady Chapel 
r 
m~r Qtulnnial
I 
I 

Jfancakr lfnusr 

"Enioy a snack or ~inner" 
:~::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::!::::::::::::::::::::!::::::& 
;:;: 35 Varieties of Pancakes ;::: ~~ffChicken -Steak -Sandwiches ~~~~~ ii!i Friday Nites: Perch Dinners ~~~~~ :~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~: 
U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North Your Host (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards, NO '50 
record in the American League. And finally, the tenacious slider 
<although it has been called other things) thrown by the old master, Gaylord Perry, will continue to baffle the AL hitters. Yes, the popular city of cleveland will have a winner this summer. 
Sincerely, 
Ted Ursu 
The Observer welcomes all comments and opinions submitted in the form of letters. 
All letters should be submitted to The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46656 or brought to The Observer offices in the south wing on the 2nd noor of LaFortune Student Center. They must be t~pewritten, double-spaced and sagned. Names will be withheld on request, however. 
The Observer reserves the right to edit letters when spatial limitations deem necessary. Length of letters are asked to be no more tan two pages. 
r--~-----~.,--~---~-------~­
... 
Bookstore hysteria infects again 
by Bill Delaney 
Henry Kissinger is interrupting his honeymoon to be there. Richard Nixon will be displaying his talents with the yo-yo during the half-time of the finals. Spiro Agnew will read excerpts from his new book at the consolation game. Four thousand actors will descend en masse in a recreation of Tolstoy's War and Peace before the finals. Announcing the game will be that old reliable team of Humble Howard, Dandy Don and Fearless Frank. And there will be so much hitting that Ara will be scouting for a middle linebacker. 
What is this event that draws so much attention in the Spring? It is the third ·annual Bookstore Basketball Tournament, with a record number of 136 teams en­tered in the race for the cham­pionship title. Vince Meconi, the Tournament Director of the Classic, has been hard at work organizing the teams, the referees and the courts, and he feels that this tournament will be the best ever. "We have had such a phenomenal response that we are working overtime to help everyone involved ," said Meconi, "and we promise that everybody will have a good time." 
This is the third year of the tournament, which was the idea of Fritz Hoefer, who ran the program in its initial year. "we only ex­pected twenty or so teams that first year, but 52 teams signed up, really pleasing us, ' quoted Meconi. The Family, composed of John Shumate, Gary Brokaw, Pete Crotty, Dwight and Cliff Brown, were the first champions of the tournament, and Shumate was selected MVP of the event. Last year, the 31 Club, led by Mike Bonefer, last year's MVP, and Tom Clements nipped The Badin Exiles in one of the most exciting games of the tournament's history. 
There are many favorites to take the title this year, with some teams consititing of members of the football and basketball teams. Some pre-tourney favorites in­clude: the Tiles, consisting of Billy 'Apple' Paterno, Bill Sahm, a freshman Football player, and 
Globetrotters here tonight 
The Harlem Globetrotters will be at the Athletic and Convocation Center tonight, April5, at 8:00p.m. The B-ball wizards carry a phenomenal 11,165-323 career record into this evening's per­formance and that includes a world tour record of 343-0. 
Ticket prices are $4.50 for lower arena and platform seats, $3.50 for end court seats and $2.50 for bleacher seats. 
IIROO·H.AR 
Jordan Ford 
609 East Jefferson Mishawaka 
Dave Kelly, member of the runner­up Pangborn Interhall Team, Terex. consisting of of Willie Townsend, Greg Hill and Cliff Brown, Firin' Myron and the Fat Asses, consisting of Dick Prell, Mike Bush, Bill 'Stump' Ervine, Myron Schuckman, and of course, Jay 'Fat Ass' Mayer, The Truckers. with Roger Anderson, and The Exorcists, with Tom Varga. "Dark-horses always give The Classic a flair," Meconi adds, "and with 136 teams, I expect a few to challenge the' favorites." 
The names of the various teams have always been colorful, and this year promises to be no exception. Every form of sexual perversion was used as a team name, along with such dandies as The Albuquerque Iggerood~s. The Howard Ons, OCLA and Pneumonoultramicroscopics ilicovolcanoconiosis. 
There are always human in­terest stories involved in the classic, and this year is no ex­ception. The Lolipop Guild, composed of no player over five­foot-five, will be coached by a six­foot-eight football player. The Stupendous Streakers have decided to vote on whether or not to play in the nude. The results of the vote weren't in as of this writing, but if the results are positive, then that contest should draw the most lookers. 
The rules of the tournament include games of 21 baskets, no weather restrictions, dunking a·nd offensive goal-tending very legal, the same five starting players must finish thegame. Thereis also a clause which limits varsity for each team, thus eliminating any over-abundance of power on any one team. Meconi has attempted, and for the most part succeeded, in getting only experienced re[erees for this year's tournament. "If the NBA can't find enough good refs, we certainly can't either," said Meconi. "we've got a good bunch of refs, and Rod Braye, our supervisor will make sure that our games will run smoothly." 
The bookstore tournament is the one chance where frustrated jocks can display their skills befor crowds that swell up to 300 strong for the finals. Tom Malone, coach of the Howard Ons, tried to explain the reasons why he and his fellow players decided to enter the tournament: "We're a bunch of second-semester seniors who've been playing together for the past three years. We decided to go out to have some fun for the the last time, and the clas~ic is the way we can do it." 
So, for the next week or two, 
Women form tennis team 
Last fall it was announced that a Women's Tennis Team would be formed if there was enough in­terest among Notre Dame women. A large number of women joined the initial club and came to bi­weekly practices during Sep· tember, October, and November. 
Now, a smaller . group of determined players is par­ticipating in spring practices and has set up a schedule of inter­collegiate match~s. The Athletic Department has been cooperative and plans to give the club University Team status and support next year if this season goes well. 
Dr. Carole Moore is the advisor to the new club along with the assistance of four student coaches. 
Matches for late April and early May are scheduled with Purdue, Chicago State, Aquinas, Lake Forest, and St. Mary's at home, and Bowling Green and Toledo away. 
Although there is much interest and enthusiasm for the club, the biggest problem facing the new group is finding the minimum funds needed for tennis balls, transportation, and minor organizational expenses. In ad­dition, the club is in need of a student manager. Any Notre Dame woman interested in devoting her time and talents to a serious team effort is welcome to try out for the team. Questions and suggestions may be referred to Jane Lammers 0335), Betsy Fallon (1277), or Carole Moore (7335). 
256-0111 
Cards Books 
Magazines Art Supplies 
approximately 800 players will be in the world, but the players and competing in the event which the spectators will be draws the largest number of guaranteed a good time 
participants on this campus. The during 1974's Bookstore Basketball games may not be the best played Tournament. 



Tomorrow Night 
Last Armory Party 
Tickets


APRIL 6 
$2.50 Dining Ha II $3.00 at door8: 30 -1 : 00 AM 
75 KEGS served to the first .1500 students music-Mark Bloom Band 
•••DROP IN ANY NIGHT THIS WEEKEND AND 
LISTEN TO THE SOUND 
OF CHRIS MANION 
•
2 MI. NORTH OF ND UP 31. 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Versitile cartoonist to work on Point Counterpoint page. Call Observer any night. 7471 
Ride needed to Texas April 5. $$ Call Gilbert 1217. 
Riders wanted: Louisiana area April 6. Call 287-9785. 
-~ --~-----­
Ride needed to Northcentral New Jersey for Spring Break. Leave anytime. Call Val 8159. 
Ride back from Buffalo after Break and back after An Tostal. Call Mike 3305. 
Need ride to New Jersey. Can leave Tuesday night. Call Mike 2187. 
Riders needed: West on I 80 to Iowa City. Leaving the lOth. Call 6416. 
Rdie wanted to Conneticut area Wednesday or Thursday. Call 232-2110. 
Need riders back from Jersey April 18. Call Ed. 8738. 
Need ride to Philadelphia or South Jersey. Leave anytime after Tuesday afternoon. Call Ken. 3546. 
Needed: 2 housemates for house off Eddy. Ca II 234-2344 or 8691. 
Housemates from June to August. Call Christy at 232­7415. 
Need ride on 80 East to Williamsport, Pa. Can leave Tuesday or Wednesday. Kathy 6849. 
PERSONALS 
Bring back Riehle. 
Happy Birthday to Mickey Mouse. Jungle Book. 
ATTENTION: MmmBuddies: Everymmbuddy show at Stepan, Noon Saturday for round 1 of Bookstore B-Ball. AnymmmBuddy must appear. Council of Royal Mm­mBuddies. 
Father Presley: Good luck on Orals today. The Boys. 
Roberta Stone exists . Have a great time here Bruce. 
FOR SALE 
Selling my personal stereo equipment. New Marantz 4­channel receiver and Metrotech Decoder and other 2 and 4 Channel items. Call 287­7818. 
Black and White T.V.: Sears 2 yrs. old, 19 inch, $60. Black and White T.V.: RCA Solid State 1' 2 yrs. old, 19 inch, $60, stand included. Desk: Solid Pine, large free wood bookcase, $25. Double Bed: 1' 2 yrs. old, Simmons extra-firm mattress Wood headboard (available 5­15), $75. Call 287-1178. HAND MADE INDIAN JEWELRY Turquoise bracelets, rings, watchbands, earrings and accessories. Bery reasonably priced; drop in to 10 lyons or call 7833 and see for yourself. 
Yamaha Folk Guitar (FG-130) and Vinyl case. $98.50 Ravinder 8829. 
NOTICES 
TICKETS FOR THIS SATURDAYS ARMORY PARTY ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LA FORTUNE, FROM 1-5 DAILY. TICKETS ARE $2.50 IN ADVANCE. 
JUNI Logan volanteers: Saturday Rec. 9-11:30 a.m. Very Im­portant meeting following. 
FINAL NOTICE: SMC Summer program in London, travel in England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Paris. May 20 to June 20. 9 credits. $795 plus tuition. $50 deposit must pay by April 10. Prof. A.R. Black 284­4948. 
LOST 
Lost: Seiko watch last week. Call 8639. 
Lost:  Brown  wallet  at  6:30  
show  of  Godfather  Monday  
night.  Reward offered.  Call  

Dave 8405. 
Lost: Black wallet. URGENT!! Lost Wednesday behind Bookstore. Call 1044. 

~--~-------~--------~ ­
... 
Shoults secondary IS r1mary 
by John Fineran present," Shoults says, "we do "At the present time, Bob is know we will have to replace Mike running number-one at free Last season, defensive backfield Townsend, a great safety and safety," Shoults continues. "And coach Paul Shoults received his leader, and Tim Rudnick, a fine we have moved Tim Simon from Christmas gift early -in the cornerman and great punt offense to defense to back him up. person of a sensational, grey-retuner." "Tim has good. speed, and he haired freshman, Luther Bradley. And though these graduations also can be used as a punt retur­
But as the saying goes, "The leave some questions to be an­ner. So far in drills, he has looked Lord giveth and the Lord taketh swered, Shoults seems to have encouraging." away," the Irish secondary, which them -Bob Zanot and Tom It was in the latter position that was solidified by Muncie, In-Lopienski -in addition to some the Pontiac, Mich. freshman diana's "Old Man," has again been other talented performers who speedster broke in with the '73 depleted by graduation. should be able to provide needed national champions --rather 
"Although it is early to say at back7up strength. spectacularly in fact, Just ask those 11 Cadets Simon left in his
Tom Hansen~============================================================================================================;=;= wake as he took a 73-yard-jaunt to the endzone at West Point. "Lopienskiplayed corner last year, quite a bit of it against Southern
Captain's Corner 
Cal," Shoults remembers. If a player was ever going to get nervous, no one would have faulted ====================;=;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=======Boyhood language the 6-1 Akron 1native,, especially 
when he was faceo with the
Roger Angell's The Summer Game, Roger Kahn's The Boys of Sum­
awesome task of guarding the
mer, and Philip Roth's The Great American Novel, have many things in 
Trojans' talented duo of receivers, 
common. The most striking commonality is the fact that each deals with 
J.K. McKay and Lynn Swann. And
what can · appropriately be termed, as Roth insists, "the language of 
although Swann made a sensational 
my boyhood" -baseball. 
touchdown grab--sensational
-Rightly so, there is a joy to the game which can be considered a because Lopienski had him_boyish elation. Thj! recollection of how many baseball cards one traded, 
covered so well -Tom more than
the summer days of black-tape balls and taped bats, and the "red-hots" 
made up for the six-pointer· by
your dad bought you at Yankee Stadium or Forbes Field or White Sox 
recovering Anthony Davis' fumble Luther Bradley (20), be returning season
Park while he just had a beer. In fact, to some, the cerebral game, the 
when the game wasa still in doubt. although free safety Michael Townsend (27) leaves a hole to be filled.
trivia arguments, and the recollection of an .All Stargamehome run by 
Shoults has no doubts about the perform during spring drills. Still, comer. He made the travelling
Tony Perez are the essence of the game. 
other two members of his secon­Shoults is quite satisfied, thank squad last season and .can also be
It has been said that baseball is the most intensely remembered game 
dary -namely the "B's", Mr. you, with the talent he has, par-a punt returner as he was in high
of all. It is intensely watched and intensely absorbed. Each pitch is a 
Bradley and Mr. Barnett. ticularly Randy Payne, Pat Sarb school.
potential home run, double, leaping catch or fantastic play. Tr!J)y 
"I always felt Reggie was a good and another freshman, Mike "Defense is reaction football
baseball has made arimpressionon a lot of people. The "Summer Game" 
football player," Shoults says. "He Banks, all of whom Shoults hopes while offense is assignment,"
is timeless in itsrelationto progress and because it si not played to beat the clock. It is less frantic and more conducive to essays of prose that ascend like a major league pop-up than are the winter sports. It has been celebrated more in literature than any of the other major sports. And, this points to that strength of the game which is certainly one of America's more engaging preoccupations if not its national pasttime ­memories. 
Even though fans get bored in the stands, Jim Boutons fall asleep in the bullpen, the games can run for hours with innings that seem like days; even though the game itself is extremely simple in a world of complexity, bat hitting ball still flourishes. Almost-everyone ":ould agree that the 1974 season will become a season to remember. The smgle event most responsible for this will be that time at bat when everyone across America knows that the immortal Babe Ruth's record has been surpassed by one Atlanta Brave. The most famous number in sports -714-will her increased. A record that stood for 40 years but seemed like forever will finally be broken. 
Although the only record that could probably be broken Friday, April 5, would be attendance, it is a marked Friday. In a few days there begins what will be a full month of baseball. The Notre Dame baseball team will open regular ~eason play this Friday against Miami of Ohio. There is a doubleheader on Saturday and a twinbill with Toledo on Sunday. The hot dogs will be there waiting for the mustard, however, you may have to bring your own beer. Hopefully you will find the time to come out and witness opening day at Cartier Field.. 
What can you ex~t? Perhaps something bizarre, for it is opening day and hopes run high. Opening days seem to bring out the best in the form of many a noteworthy performance. But most of all, that day will mark the beginning of another season of baseball where fans will be en, tertained, and perhaps relive part of a boyhood dream to play baseball. 
FOR: AUDI-BMW-CAPRI-DATSUN-FIAT-JAGUAR MERCEDES-MG-OPEL-PORSCHE-RENAULT SAAB-TOYOTA-TRIUMPH-VW-VOLVO WITH 
-AUTO PARTS FOR IMPORTS 
A DIVISION OF MAREMONT CORPORATION, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60601 
AN INVENTORY OFFERING YOU ..• 
e  GOOD PROFITABILITY  
e  EXCELLENT AVAILABILITY  
e  EVEN TOLL-FREE TELEPHONE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IF NEEDED  
e  IMMEDIATE ACCESS TO MULTI­MILLION DOLLAR FACTORY BASE INVENTORY  


The Worldparts line provides full coveragE! on WI, Dat_sun, Toyota! Volvo and Cap~i, plus comprehensive coverage for 11 other Imports ... m total, eng1_ne parts, fuel/01l, electrical, clutch/transmission, heating/cO?Iing, steering/suspension, brake/wheel, exhaust, plus standard parts and accessones. 
Raseland Autamative Supply Inc 
320 Dixieway N. (at the light) 
South Bend. Indiana 2n-6700 
has the excellent speed the position will provide backfield depth. Shoults .concludes. "You have to requires -he ran two 4.5 forties "Mike has good size (6-2, 194) have good speed, of course. Over this spring -and he has improved and adequate speed for the safety the years, it has been Ara's policyhis man-coverage, too. position behind Luther," he says, to shore up the defense and stop 
"On paper, we knew Luther "Right now, he's coming along our opponents."could do it, but he had to prove 
nicely·" , For the record, it appears thehimself on Saturdays. He did (six Las~ season, Ba~s, a for~er Irish secondary has the speed and swipes, three against the Trojans). 
offensive and defensive ~ckf1eld size to stop any opponent. The onlyLuther and Ross (defensive end ~tar fro~ Youngsto~n, Oh1o, wa~ thing lacking, perhaps, is ex­Browner) really helped our Idled w1th hamstrmg problems. perience. And while experiencedefense last year as freshmen. It most of the season. comes primarily on Saturdays, its is more a rare occasion than a "Randy (a 5-9, 178-pounder who learning aspects come during the common one to have freshmen would back-up Barnett) has im-spring and late-summer drills.
perform as they did." 
proved con.~ider~bly," Shoults Right now, it looks like Paul 
At the moment Shoults can't rely goes on. He IS an ~xcellent Shoults' Christmas gifts will come on freshmen because any new t~ckler, and we. hope to 1mprove even earlier than thei Augustrecruits the Irish have ticketed for h1s hands catchmg. arrival last season. 
the secondary, of course, can't "Pat (6-0, 188) is a potential 
Explore beneath the surface. You'll discover 
a whole shop of organic foods. The bounty 
of Mother Earth. Real honey. Grains. 
Unadulterated and healthy foods. Stored for you in this underground domain. 
Featuring Dannon Yogurt 
8 OZ. SIZE 
Plain 31 cents 
Vanilla 31 cents 
Fruit Flavors 33 cents 

I 


Shop: Monday-Saturday 10-9 Sunday 11-7 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka 
In the Old Kemm's Brewery 
LONDON. PARIS, ANTWERP. ROTIERDAM. SYDNEY. MELBOURNE, TORONTO. MONTREAL. 
VANCOUVER. NEW YORK. BOSTON. MIAMI, PHIUDELPHIA. CHICAGO, DETROIT. PITISBURGH, 
HOUSTON. DALLAS. PHOENIX. SAN FRANCISCO SFATTl F L(l~ -'IIIGI;Lf" 
• 








