
On The Inside 
Campaign news 
pages 2-3. 
Tuition raise 
...page 6 
Vol. VIII, No. 87 
----~ ­

serving the notre dome -sf. mary's community 
Tuesday, February 26, 1974 
Nixon holds rare news conference 
by Eugene V. Risher 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-President Nixon declared Monday night the Constitution permits the House to impeach a President only for criminal offenses and predicted he would not be impeached. 
Nixon took issue with a study by the legal staff of the House Judiciary Committee's impeachment inquiry, which concluded last week that a President can be put on trial in the Senate for offenses which are not specifically outlawed. 
"I do not expect to be impeached," the President said at a news conference televised from the White House -his first since his meeting with newspaper editors at Disneyworld in Orlando, Fla. last Nov. 17. 
From energy to politics 
Nixon, choosing his words with great care, appeared to speak slower than usual. He wore an American flag pin in his lapel. Answering questions for 40 minutes, he made these points: 
Energy: The crisis is no longer a crisis, only a "problem." He predicted that lines leading to gasoline stations would grow shorter this spring and summer, that rationing would prove unnecessary and that gasoline prices would remain high. 
llis taxes: For the first time, Nixon conceded what critics have charged -that the deed of his gift of vice presidential papers to the National Archives "apparently'" was not signed before the law per­mitting tax deductions for such gifts was changed. Nixon said he sent the papers to the Archives in March, before the July 25, 1969 change, but offered to pay back taxes if more are due. 
Watergate: Nixon disclosed that he had offered to meet with special Watergate prosecution Leon Jaworski and answer his questions but Jaworski refused to go along with such an arrangement. Nixon said he would not bow to Jaworski's request to testify before a grand jury investigating the Watergate scandals. 
The economy: Nixon said the economy is going through a slowdown but during the second half of 1974 it will be on "an upward curve." He said, "We will not stand by ... and allow a recession to occur." 
The Arab oil embargo: Nixon said the "urgent meeting" of Arab· leaders which he announced in his State of the Union address did not occur on Feb. 14 because Arab leaders "are not a united group." Nonetheless, he predicted, the embargo would be lifted. 
Politics: Nixon reiterated his determination to complete his second term in the presidency. He was asked if he would remain in office even if it became obvious that Republican disaster loomed in the 1974 congressional elections. "I want my party to succeed," he replied, "but more importantly I want the presidency to succeed." 
When the inevitable resignation question arose, Nixon recalled 1949, when Democratic prospects looked so bad that Sen. J. William Fulbright, the Arkansas Democrat, was calling for the resignation of President Harry S. Truman. Nixon said the Republicans made Truman "the issue and we took a very bad licking." Nine months before the 1974 elections, he said, none could predict what the issues would be. 
"I think it will be a good year for those candidates who stand for the administration," he said. 

On Impeachment 
On the impeachment question, Nixon disputed the House com­mittee's study, which said a President could be impeached for such offenses as dereliction of duty. 
"The Constitution is very precise on what is an impeachable of­fense," he said. "In this respect it is the opinion of White House counsel and other constitution lawyers, and it is my opinion, that criminal offense is the requirement for impeachment." 
The Constitution says only that a President, vice president or other civil officer can be impeached for bribery, treason and "other high crimes and misdemeanors." The House study said "high crimes" were crimes no ordinary citizen but only those with the high responsibility of high office could commit. 
Again Nixon hedged in offering to cooperate with the impeachment inquiry. He said he would do nothing to weaken the presidency, to compromise the rights of Watergate defendants or to impair the special prosecutor's case. He insisted that tapes and documents would be provided only if his Watergate lawyer, James D. St. Clair, is assured they will be kept confidential. 
Most of these were conditions he had not mentioned in the "personal note" that ended his State of the Union address in January. 

Nixon's tax payments 
Nixon's tax payments during 1969-72 were reduced by an estimated $235,000 through deductions taken for the gift of vice presidential papers. Sen. Russell B. Long, D-La., chairman of the House-Senate Committee on Internal Revenue studying the legality of the deduc­tions, has predicted the panel will ask Nixon to pay more taxes. 
Nixon appeared willing to concede that he might have to make an additional payment. "There is no question about my intent," in making the gift, he said, since the papers were delivered by March, 1969. 
But the paperwork was "apparently not concluded" in time to make the gift valid before the deduction was removed from the tax code, he said, and if the course he followed "was not the proper one, I will, of course, be glad to pay the tax." 
He said many others economist John Kenneth Galbraith, physicist Jerome Weisner, Sen. Hubert H. Hum!lbrey, D-Minn., and the late President Lyndon B. Johnson had taken similar deductions. 
(continued on page 1) 

Candidates hold forum 
Charges leveled against Capp 
by Fred Graver Early morning Editor 
In a special forum held last night in the Stanford-Keenan chapel, the tickets of Rahill­Wordal, McLaughlin-Flanagan, Winiarczyk-Famula, Capp-Ericksen, Oberhardt-Collins, and Gahagan-O'Connell presented their platforms and answered questions in com­parison and challenge of each perspective ticket's proposals. 
The main issues were the off-campus situation, the Capp-Ericksen Stepan Center Basketball proposal, and Student Government-Administration relations. 
In response to a student charge that Ray Capp did not adequately research the proposal for winter basketball courts in Stepan Center, the candidate replied tilat "we didn't research it as well as some of our opponents did. It has been given the approval of the Student Affairs Central Staff." In a forum held at Morrissey hall last night, can­didate Pat McLaughlin said that the University Committee on Environmental Control had been investigating just recently the possibility of closing down Stepan Center in the winter because of the excessive use of heat and electricity. 
Other challenges to the proposal came from candidate Ed Rahill. In his speec,h to the crowd at the chapel, he reminded students that many promises can be made in a cam­paign that may not be kept once the President has been elected. Rahill stated that he had spoken to the chairman of the Architecture Department, and the proposed cost for the Capp-Ericksen plan is $44,000. The biggest problem would be the replacement of the Stepan Center floor, which is now covered by a high-gloss surface unfit for basketball. 
A student commented to Capp in the course of the Stanford-Keenan forum that the approval of the Student Affairs Central staff means little more than a promise to further investigate and research the matt«::r. The same kind of approval was given to the LaFortune renovation plans. Capp said, "Well, we'll just have to wait and see what the Vice-President of Student Affairs has to say about that." 
The proposaluf a food co-op for off-campus students was given much discussion. Ed Rahill called the ideaunfeasable, citing the fact that costs for wholesalers, butchers, and other overheads, as well as the cost of complying with state and federal laws would diminish almost completely any type of discount that would be offered to the st'udents. 
Capp and Eric~sen co~tered the charge by supplyuing a detailed list of beef prices, and the prospective savmgs that had been quoted to them by a leading wholesaler in South Bend. 
Candidate Andy Winiarczyk proposed setting up a co-op with the help of the food services at Notre Dame. Ed Rahill commented that the same idea had been im­plemented at Cornell University, with no success. 
A site for a co-op, in a department store building near Corby's, was proposed by the Oberhardt-Collins ticket. They also cited the feasibility of working to make food stamps more available to off-campus students. 
Pat McLaughlin, in an attempt to keep from making definite commitments towards plans that could not be determined as of yet, proposed publicizing food prices every week as a start in battling the high food prices off campus. 
In the midst of the forum, candidate Mike Gahagan charged those running for the Presidency with "missing the relevant issues." Gahagan said, ''These minor concessions can only mire the processes by which we can change the things that need to be changed." 
The problems of student rights and relations between the Student Government and the Administration were given a great deal of discussion at the forum. The Oberhardt­Collins ticket cited the disappearance of student rights, especially those of privacy and speech, as evidence of the "sickness of the the University." 
Ed Rahill stated that, in the area of diplomatic relations between Student Government and the Administration, it is necessary to have "a new position of student power". McLaughlin and his vice-presidential candidate, Frank Flanagan, promised the necessary leadership to implement the changes and plans that would deal with the ad­ministration in a practical way. 
Presidential candidate Ray Capp stressed that his ticket represented "primarily a service platform," and stated that he was "not a student activist,'' but believed in diplomatic confrontation. He proposed to work through the office of the Dean of Students in bringing about changes in the area of student rights. 

Bob Hope during rehearsal for NO show. (Photo by John Olugolecki.) 
• 

I 
I 
I 
' 
I j 
~ 
arid briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPI>-Federal Trade Commission FTC lawyers, charging monopoly conditions in the U.S. oil industry have cut down competition, are recommending that eight big oil companies be forced to give up a large portion of their refining capacity. 
LONDON <UPI>-Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, con­
fident Syria is willing to begin talks with Israel, called on British 
leaders today before flying on to the Middle East for his fourth 
peace m.ission to the region. 
Kissinger was scheduled to meet this morning with British 
Foreign Secretary Sir Alec Douglas Home, energy chief Lord 
Carrington and former Prime Minister Harold Wilson, leader of 
the opposition Labor party. 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Herbert W. Kalmback gave Watergate 
prosecutors an accounting of about $6 million in 1970 and 1972 
campaign contributions which included secret cash gifts from 
two ambassadors and an airlines executive, the Washington 
Post reported in Tuesday editions. 
Kalmbach, President Nixon's former personal lawyer, pleaded guilty Monday in U.S. District Court to charges that he illegally raised $3.9 million for the 1970 congressional campaign and that he offered a European ambassadorship to J. Fife Symington Jr., of Lutherville, Md. in exchange for a $100,000 campaign contribution. He has promised to testify in Watergate-related court cases. 
an campus today 

12:00-5:00pm -art exhibit, indiana printmaker show held over until march 6, moreay gallery, smc 
12:00-9:00pm -art exhibit, paintings by harold zisla, hammes gallery 
2:45pm-film, civilization series, "the worship od nature," cce theater 
6: 30 pm -lecture, "fundamentals of insurance,'' dr. charles reddy, spon. by al advisory council, room 202, arch bldg 
7:00 
pm -discussion, great books discussion, room 105, madeleva memorial 

7:00 
and 9:00pm-movie, "women in love," by d.h. lawrence, free, engineering aud. 


7:30pm -lecture, "marketing picture in 1974," by james e. hall, carroll hall 
8:00pm-basketball, nd vs ball state, ace 

r 


Villarosa and Zimsky explain ca:mpaign at Farley
f 
r  
r  
r  by Mark Frazel Staff Reporter  
SBP hopeful Steve Villarosa and his running mate Bill Zimsky explained their campaign of united student action as an alternative to the present lethargic condition Monday night at an informal gathering in Farley Hall. "We students are this univer­sity!" said Villarosa. Through means such as petitions we have a viable way for insuring change on such issues as parietals." "Some have doubted our ex­perience," commented Villarosa,  

Rahill blasts opponents' plans 
by James E. Rosini Staff Reporter 
"We think it ought to beknown 
that  some  of  our  opponents  are  
making promises which  are  dif- 
Errata  

In Friday's Observer, Rob Tully, candidate for the District 6 seat on the SLC was quoted as saying that he wanted to see the SLC get in­volved in forcing students off­campus. Tully stated yesterday he meant that the SLC should get involved in the mechanics of moving students off-campus. 
Stan White, candidate from District 3, was inadvertently ommitted from the story. 
The headline on that article read that 17 students were campaigning for SLC seats. Actually, 15 students are in the election race. 
On Page 3 of Monday's Ob­server, it was reported that the Ed Rahill-Blake Wordall ticket received the endorcement of WSND along with "another presidential--vice-presidential ticket." The ticket receiving the · WSND endorsement with Rahill­Wordal was the Capp-Ericksen ticket. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester l$14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

"but since past governments' experience has been doing nothing, we're equal, at least, to them." 
Outlining the ideas of their platform, Villarosa, who lives off­campus, said, "Off-campus students have suffered some kind of stigma, it's some sort of hell or punishment to love off campus." 
They promised the creation of a food co-op, a student-run, non­profit serivce, that could appeal to various industries and offer them advertising in return for price discounts and other incentives. 
As for the social situation, Villarosa said, "Those that gripe the most do the least. We have to be social beings before any kind of social life begins, if people sit all night in their rooms, they have no right to complain." 
"I'd like to see social events originating in the halls, if people would take the initiative and do it. Maybe the University only offers an inch, but most of us only take a millimeter," he suggested. 
The Administration came in for criticism on several counts. "They don't consider the sensitivities of students," he said. "Hopefully, we're mature, responsible in­dividuals, and we should be treated as such." In particular, Villarosa refused to cower before any one figure, "Fr. Burtchaell feeds on fear, and the student body must not give that to him if they want things to be accomplished." 
Asked if he honestly believed students could change things, he replied, "Yes, obviously, why do you think we're trying to run? We have to be the spearhead for students, their spokesmen, if they want more athletic facilities, we'll pre:ss for that cause. We would inaugurate a weekly student government newsletter to ef­fectively communicate what's going on to the students." 


Admitting the role the alumni play as the power behind the ad­ministration, Villarosa concluded, "There is not one place in this university where the students are treated like adults; the ad­ministration are the parents, the students are children, and the alumni are the rich in-laws whose purse-strings control everything." 
ficult, if not impossible to keep," declared Ed Rahill in an interview last night. 
After speaking with the chair­man of the architecture depart­ment and other informed sources, Rahill explained that the floor of Stepan Center is unsuitable for running. "The floor is too slippery and the concrete surface is bad on feet and legs," Rahill explained. "A high gloss-low friction floor is highly unsuitable for athletic 1 events." 
One alternative is to remove 
the wax and apply acid to gain 1 
roughness but, "That us expensive· 
and creates great maintenance 
problems," according to Rahill. 
Rahill added that a resiliant tile 
will cost between $44,000 and $66,000 and a portable wooden floor would not suffice because it would ~;ender the floor unusable for other 
activities. " According to a high ministration official, the 
ministration was only considering spending no more than several hundred dollars," Rahill said convincingly. 
Another opposing ticket proposed an off-campus shuttle to besubsidizedby advertisements on the bus. Not stating any names Rahill said, "They have based their information on two large schools, The Universty of Texas and Iowa. Advertising will not work for such a small number of persons as the roughly 800 students at Notre Dame who would be using it." 
A food co-op has been proposed in the past and the reason that it hasn't worked to this date is because it's unfeasable, noted Rahill. "The overhead costs; license, rent, heat and students to run it is far too great. The taxes, property, utility, maintenance and insurance make the plan un,­

ad-feasable," he asserted. ad-Rahill then explained that the 
'continued on a e 5) 1 

OBSERVER ADVERTISING 
CALL 




283-7471 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF MARCH 4, 1974 
Sign-up period begins Mon., Feb. 25 

Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 207, Main Bldg. Interview times must. be signed for in person. Hours are 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday thru Friday. The Placement Manual gives additional information regarding interview procedures. 
MAR. 4 Annco Steel Corp--B,M in EE, ChE, Met, ME. 

MON. Boatmen's Natl. Bank--MBA. Chrysler Corp--B,M inEE, ME, AE. MBA with B or con­centration in Acct. Factory Mutual Engr. Assoc--B in ME, CE, ChE, EE, AE,Eg.Sci. Lilly Industrial Coatings--B,M in ChE, Chern. 
MAR. 5 Chubb & Son, Inc--B in AL, BA, CE, EE. 
TUES. Harris Trust and Savings Bank--MBA. Magnavox Co--B in EE, ME, Acct. MBA with B in EG. Motorola, Inc--B,M, D in EE. Saga Food Service--S in Econ. All BBA. Touche Ross & Co--B in Acct, Fin. MBA with Acct, Fin. background ~or concentration. 
I~ Pratt & Whitney--B,M in ChE,ME, AE, Met, Engr.Mech, 
7--!'IJN/ TUES/WED. 
!'fAR. 6 
!aD. 
MAR. 7 THURS. 
lofAR.7/8 THfFRI. 
lofAR. 8 FRI. 
EE, Appl.Math. 

Boy Scouts of America--s in Soc, Psych. All BBA. Eaton Corp--B in Econ. All BBA. B in ME, MEIO. Gould, Inc--B,M in Phys, EE, ME, Met. GI'E Data Services--8 in Math. All BBA. Indiana & Michigan Elec. Co--B in ME, EE, CE. Old Kent Bank & Trust Co--All BBA. Owens-Corning Fiberglas--S in Mkt, ChE, ME, EE. MBA with Mkt. background ,or concentration. Joint Atomi~c Energy Comm/Navy Dept--B,M,D in MEND, ChE, EE, ME, Met, Phys, ~Chern. Phillips, Getschow Co--B in ME, MEIO. 
Bankers Life of Iowa--B in AL, BA. 
Consumers Power Co--B in Acct, ChE, ME, CE, EE, Comp.Sci, 
B,M in Met. 
Continental Can Co, !nc--B in Acct, ME, MEIO, EE. GTE Sylvania--B in Acct. MBA with 12 hrs. Acct. Lincoln National Life--All BBA. B in Math, Comp.Sci. Naval Underwater S stems Center--B,M,D in ME, EE. Standard Oil of Calif Chevron Research--B,M,D in ChE. 
Coopers & Lybrand--B in Acct. MBA with Bin Acct. or Con. 

Cincinnati Electronics Corp--B in ME. B,M in EE. John Hancock Mutual Life Ins.Co--B in AL, BA, Math. Indiana State Hghy. CODID•·B,M in CE. Lawrence Livermore Lab--B,M,D in ME, EE, ChE. Ph.D in Phys. 
Norden Div.-United Aircraft--B,M in EE. B,M,D in ME. Ph.D. in Physics. 
Northern Illinois Gas Co--B in Acct, Fin, ChE, CE. 
Republic Steel Corp-·B in ChE, EE, ME, MEIO, Met. 

~--­- -- --­---­~-~ --­-------~­- 
Tuesday, February 26, 1974  the observer  3  

Capp-Ericksen campaign offers new ideas 
by David Kaminski and Ken Girouard Staff Reporters 

In campaign appearances Monday night, Ray Capp and Greg Ericksen elaborated on their plans for a meat co-op, and an off­campus shuttle. They also called for more effective promotion of the foreign studies program and SBP attendance at the weekly meetings of the Student Affairs Committee Central Staff. In Morrissey Hall, Capp responded to challenges to his Stepan Center winter sports proposal. 
At St. Ed's Hall, Capp said he contacted the Wyatt Locker Plant in South Bend which quoted a price of $33 for 25 pounds of assorted cuts of meat. This averages to $1.32 cents per pound. 
The 25 pounds would include two cuts each of Round, T-Bone and Sirloin steak, 1 Boneless roast and 7 pounds of ground beef. When comparing prices for the same cuts of meat at local super­markets, Capp concluded that the student could save from 20 to 30 cents per pound on the average. 
Capp said students could place beef orders on Mondays to be delivered on Fridays. Wyatt Locker Plant offered Student Government the use of a freezer to store meat that students did not pick up. 
For students who did not wish to buy 25 pounds of meat at once, Ericksen suggested that they could break up the bundles. By raising the price of the steaks above $1.32 per pound, they could sell the ground beef for less and still save the students money. 
Capp said he was looking into the purchase of used busses from military installations for the off­campus shuttle-service. He said that ownership and insurance of the busses would be under the jurisdiction of the University. 
Capp stressed the importance of starting the shuttle bus schedule at the beginning of the fall semester. He said, "Our aim is to approach the students before they find other means of transportation." 


Oberhardt stresses more student rights 
by Jack D'Aurora Staff Reporter 

"Our basic point is the return of student rights," said Bill Oberhardt before a group of Sorin Hall students last night. "During I 
the  past  couple  years  we've  
watched  student  rights disap­ 
pear."  

Oberhardt cited the clause in the housing contract stipulating the University's right to conduct searches, and feels that "students have no privacy." He brought up the possibility of legally defeating the clause as did the students at Boston University. 
In addition, "The judicial system has got to change," said Oberhardt. "The appeals court have never overturned a decision. Also, if a student is found innocent before the judicial board, the dean of students can appeal the case and try him again." 
Oberhardt then pointed to particular instances where he felt that students were denied their rights. He mentioned Fr. Burt­chaell's defending statement for the new calendar that 72 class days were necessary to remain ac­credited, which although found to be false, did not prohibit the calendar's passage. 
Oberhardt then referred to the Dillon Hall incident in which the student was told, according to Oberhardt, that the case would be handled with the "utmost candor," yet was all over campus. 
"Like H'man said, I'm tired of being treated like children in a sand box," said the presidential candidate. He offered the LaFortune renovation as an example, where student govern­ment worked on the plans only to have them negated by Fr. Burt­chaell. 
On the problems of off-campus life, the candidate stated, "The Student Affairs Office does nothing for the off-campus. The Office seems to feel that he's on his own." 
Oberhardtt~resented his plan for the off-campus student. Of primary importance is to convince the University to force standards on the landlords by means of sending out committees to evaluate houses. ­
These committees could pressure the landlords by threatening them with their own building violations, which could lead to their shut down. "The University owes such co-operation since it forces its students off­campus," said Oberhardt. 
He also plans a student run food co-op which would sell non­perishable goods at reduced prices. Oberhardt has a site in mind near Corby's, and feels that "the least the University can do is give us a loan." 
Last in his off-campus plan is an office where students could obtain information on food stamps, for which some students qualify, and on cheaper food prices. 
Capp and Ericksen urged more effective promotion of the foreign studies program. By increasing the number of sophomores going overseas, more room would be made on campus for students remaining at Notre Dame. 
Ericksen suggested that he and Capp might sit in on the weekly meeting of the 14 member Student Affairs Central Staff. 
"By sitting in on the meetings," Ericksen said, "we'd try to prevent the administration from passing anything without students knowing what's going on." 
In Morrissey Hall, Capp and Ericksen were joined by McLaughlin and Flanagan, Gahagan and O'Connelr, and Bill Oberhardt. Each candidate spoke on his platform and answered questions from the floor. 
SBP candidate Pat McLaughlin asked Capp about the University Energy Conservation Committee's plan to shut down Stepan Center during the winter months to save on heat and electricity. 
Capp assured the crowd, however, that the winter basketball plan for Stepan Center has been approved and the University has funds for the project.. 
Also at Morrissey, Ericksen said that the parietals issue should be under the control of the individual hall staffs. 
"Once something leaves the hall," Ericksen said, "the rector is saying that he has lost control of the hall." 
Capp and Ericksen, who share half of the WSND endorsement with Rahill and Wordal, continue campaigning Tuesday with stops at Zahm, Dillon, Grace and possibly Badin. 

Shankel-McErlean attack Capp 
by Mike Donovan dollars, Notre Dame could have a 
and Mike Kulczycki student owned and operated 
Staff Reporters cooperative of its own. · 
"The thing that runs the people

Steve Shankel and Bill the most money is the staple foods, McErlean, Student Body President such as bread, eggs, fruit and and Vice-Presidential candidates, paper products," he added. "We charged Monday night that many have and have had the sources or 
of the Capp-Erickson proposals outlets to get the food." were based on "bad information Shankel emphasized, "We stand that they received that has created on our facts." false images in the minds of the Shankel feels the equiping of 
people." Not that we're calling Stepan Center as an athletic center 
Cappa liar," they continued, "but is an economically impracticalsince he is a leading contender he idea. McErlean added, "What's should re-examine his platform, the need for more basketball and note the lack of feasibility in courts on campus." According to 
some of his proposals." Shankel, "Spending more money 
Shankel noted, "I can truthfully on the courts would draw even say that I don't think Ray Capp more money from the Student offers the on campus student Union Commissions." anything." Shankel and McErlean said from 
According to Shankel and what they could tell from the news McErlean, they spent part of stories, according to the Capp Monday researching some of the platform, most of the Student Capp-Erickson proposals. After Government money would be spent contacting every meat wholesaler on the off-campus students. in South Bend, Shankel reported McErlean argued, "The money he that the costs of the butchers' fee spends off-campus is useless." along with the cost of refrigeration Shankel further questioned how equipment would put the im­Capp would be able to finance any plementation of Capp's proposal social life on campus. He felt the out of the question. money could be better spent on 
Citing figures from Kent State such things as the "Irish Pub," and Boston College, Shankel said further development of the Om­that for under two thousand budsmen service and on the 
Fr. Hesburgh to receive Peter Canisius Medal 
Theodore M. Hesburgh, President of Notre Dame, has been awarded the Peter Canisius Medal from the Canisius College Alumni Association in Buffalo, N.Y. The presentation on Wednesday, Feb. 20, was made by Very Rev. James 
M. Demske in the Student Center Auditorium. 
Established by the alumni association, the Cansius Medal has been awarded since 1957 to "an outstanding individual who has made substantial contributions to the educational, spiritual, social, cultural, and intellectual ad­vancement of mankind and whose career and achievements con­stitute a challenge and an in­spiration to the youth of America." 
Former recipients of the Canisius Medal include Sen. Thomas Eagleton, Medico Founder Thomas Dooley, New York Supreme Court Justice Philip Halpern, HEW Secretary Anthony 
J. Celebrezze, and Sen. Eugene McCarthy. 
KNIGHTS OF 




COLUMBUS 
Check your local radio listingsfor time

STEAK 
and station. Tune in,


DINNER 
drink Bud®, have fun!

Sunday, March 3, 5:00 
ANHEUSER·BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS 
Sign-up in TV Room by Wednesday 
renovation of the Old Fieldhouse 
into a cultural center. 

Further addressing himself to 
the Capp platform, McErlean said 
he "doesn't direct his program to 
the student rights problem. If this 
is not an important issue, I think it 
should be." 

One issue to be explored, ac­
cording to McErlean, was students 
"signing their rights away when 
they sign their room lease." 

Shankel and McErlean wished to 
correct an error printed in their 
platform concerning the Student 
Union. They would like to abolish 
the Student Union Board of 
Directors, not the position of 
Student Union Director. In calling 
for its elimination, Shankel and 
McErlean said the Student Union 
Board of Directors was "one weak 
link in the whole chain." 

Discussing the needs of the 
campus, Shankel also said that "Cappleaves the on campus student with nothing more than a T.G.I.F. and a column in the newspaper." 
Shankel and McErlean made 
several attempts to get in contact 
with Capp to debate him in time for 
the news deadline and to release 
their research directly to him, but 
they were unable to reach Capp, 
Erickson, or their executive 
campain coordinator. 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Art Ferranti Executive Editor 
Lee Gentine Business Manager 
Jerry Lutkus Editor-in-Chief 
Dan· Barrett Executive Editor 
NEWS: 283-1715 
John Kloos 

EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Advertising ManagerBUSINESS: 283-7471 
The Next SLC 
There is one major difference between the candidates for SBP and the can­didates for SLC-experience. The SLC race has attracted a group of reasonable "green" candidates in search of a seat on the tri-partite board. 
The fact that all of the candidates lack prior SLC experience, few have any judicial or hall experience and most have failed to do "their homework" in an­ticipation of their running for this body says something about the SLC. 
That statement is intensified by the fact that none of the student members of the SLC are running for re-election. Can it be that the action in the SLC-or the actual inaction in many cases-is frustrating enough to limit students to one term on the board before they bail out? 
This is what many of these students running for the SLC must supply­continuity and stability to help fight the frustrations of the council. The can­didates are a young group. The inex­perience will wear off quickly as this year's members learned. Hopefully, they will dedicate themselves to a more viable and continuous student membership on the SLC. 
The candidates are rated as recom­mended, satisfactory or questionable. Then in bold print will be listed The Observer's choice for the SLC representative in each disctrict. 
District I 
Do\!g Stevenson • Satisfactory 
Martin O'Shea -Questionable 
Stevenson is recommended for the District I seat. 
District 2 
Darlene Palma • Satisfactory 
Phyllis Mosley--Satisfactory 
Palma is recommended for the District 2 seat. 
daanesbury varry trLt~au 
r-~----:-~
... ----~~rn~~~...., 
ONlY A5 A (IJNT!~~~ or(J}(IRSt/ I'M CWAIN lfi£ZL­~ NtEP IT, 8VTtr5 ~ 10 ~ PREPAR!il?. I'YE AIHAPY IIIRtr7lfN ~ OF TH/3 OPGNIN6 liNES .. liSTEN.. 


=~'iiiil!D.~Jt:D 
District 3 

Brian Heg_arty -Satisfactory Mike Gassman -Questionable Phil Mancini -Questionable Stanley White --Did not sign up for 
an interview 

Hegarty is recommended for the District 3 seat. 
District 4 

Joe Fiorella -Satisfactory Denis Sullivan · Satisfactory Chuck Wilson-Did not sign up for 
an interview 

Fiorella is recommended for the District 4 seat. 
District 5 

Tom Clark· Recommended John Farrell Jr. --Questionable 
Clark is recommended for the District 5 seat. 
District 6 
Art Derse · Satisfactory Rob Tully -Questionable 

Derse is recommended for the District 6 seat. 
The SLC can still be an effective and viable political force on campus. The ability of the SLC to affect change was demonstrated with the work on the student guidelines this year. That kind of ability to bring about change can also work for student-initiated proposals, but that requires hard work, homework and continuity. Hopefully, these factors will come with the new members. 
The Editorial Board 


Crasslakes 

Poster Polling 
Ja..ph abell 
Now that the Student Body President race has brought all the campus heavy-thinkers and righteous saviors of studentkind from out of the woodwork (where they do God knows what the rest of the year), perhaps it's time to say a few words about one of the more untalked­about aspects of the SBP-8BVP campaigns (got the alphabet soup right?) : the everpresent abundancy of posters. 
These wonderfulll" by 17" gaudy gems of propaganda that bom­bard one's eyes from the time he makes his morning toilet to the last nauseating Huddleburger just before bedtime oftentimes become a mainstay of campus .life (you can still see some Floyd Kezele-­remember him?-stickers in the basement of Morrissey). They do have their advantages, however: the john stalls would never otherwise be so brightly wallpapered. 
The first poster is that of Mr. McLaughlin. A fairly blah yello.v poster that highlights pictures (what else?) of Mr. McLaughlin and friend Flanagan, asks the eternal question, "Back to school?" Though possibly confusing to the reader who thinks perhaps that Mr. McLaughlin is asking if he should return to campus after the elections, the poster redeems itself by clearly identifying the candidates (assuming of course. that Campus Press hasn't mixed up the pic­tures). 
The next poster is a brilliant orange and sports a marvelous reproduction of a Doonesbury comic strip, no dobut lifted very com­petently froma Doonesbury paperback book, and proclaiming defiantly that "the trees don't go to Notre Dame." Urging the voter to support Mr. Shankel and Mr. McErlean, the poster seems to ignore the fact that though trees don't go to ND, there's still a lot of dead­wood around. One would also have to wonder if the copyright fees for using Doonesbury is included in the $50 limit set by the Election Committee. 
Next we have what is perhaps the best looking poster of the bunch: the Villarosa-Zimsky white-on-black. Ignoring for the moment that it's a ripoff of a ripoff (Alka-Seltzer via Volkswagen), whoever designed it is quite good; I sincerely applaud him. The only real problem is the text material, which reads like a law student's day-old homework. And how "united" can complaining get? Like I said, it looks nice. 
Number for on our list of goodies is a simple one: the Winiarczyk­
Famula quickie. Not bothering to waste time on fancy artwork (ar any artwork for that matter), this ticket relies on the old American tradition of a catchy slogan. Not a bad idea; while the brightness (or sickness) of the other candidates' posters slugs you, many might remember the "win" in Winiarczyk. They won't necessarily remember anything else, but they'll remember that. Which, come to think about it, might be just enough. 
Fifthly, we have a rather loud example of Campus Press artistry. Messrs. Rahill and Wordal don't seem to be satisfied with the large black letters of their names; hence, they heap dayglo red on top of it, 
with a picture of Darby O'Gill to boot.One wonders how Darby feels about his impromptu endorsement (also about his presentation as the exemplar of "Honesty, Integrity and Experience." But maybe we'd better ask the females who saw him on his recent birthday about that). 
The next "poster" is really a group of handout-like sheets proclaiming the virtues of Messrs. Capp and Ericksen. Some have pictures (one of just a lot of smoke around Mr. Capp-getting ready for those back room conferences already, maybe?), others don't. Though looking at some·of them seems to bring littleto mind but off-key strains of "Mrs. Robinson," <Cu-cu-ca-choo!) perhaps the best poster is the one that "defines what a "ray-cap" is. And maybe the most significant part is listed under "ray:" "A thing of small stature." As for Leonardo, isn't there somthing about not using "streakers" as promo gimmicks? 
Next we have the "Irish Liberation Front," whatever the hell that is (I wonder if it's like when Mike Hess and his buddy from Florida ran on the same ticket: would that be a "Palm Beach Front?"). But let's hope Gahagan doesn't get the run-around when he tries to explain what kind of disease "chronic tokenism" is, or sidetracked when discussing "student involvement." 
Finally, we have an Oberhardt and Collins. Enhancing a ripped-off Observer picture (it's easy to do; you start with a pair of scissors...) is the grim statement that the "University's function is to serve students... believe it or not!" Well, Ripley they ain't, but gosh, to be a naive underclassman again. 
There are other posters, much too numerous to go into, in additon to the attractive, and oftentimes funny, "platform" sheets (for instance: 
I never knew Oberhardt and Collins to be such close confidants of University administrators to know Farley's and BP's fate a full month in advance. It's a shame more of us can't share the University's trust, but then again, we can't all be campus personalities), but we must end our examination of campus litter ( Ooops, I mean literature). suppose I'll miss it all next year; after all, when I was an un­derclassman, the joke candidates usually admitted it. But then again, they won, didn't they? 
' o>?': 
"'~·
~ 
"I AM NOr A "' 
the observer
CRIMINAL.. I AM AN INNOC&NT PfJ8LIC StRVANT 

YOU CAN OIAN6G 
Night Editor: J R Baker 
TH~ IUORPIN6 A
8GIN6 HOUN!JtP FROM OFFIC/3 

Ass't Night Editor: Tim O'Reiley
urn.£ IF
8Y A PARTISAN PACK OF 

Layout: Clyde Iverson, Dean Janke, Mike
YOll UKG..
tWt.VGS OFf ON A WITCH Ht/f{T.N 

S1rickroth
\ 
\ 

Copy Editor: Gary Allietta Day Editors: Jim Rosini, Gary Gallietta Typists: Barb Norcross, Camille Arrieh, Tom Modglin, Howard Halle Compugraphic: Joe Abell Sports: Greg Corgan, "Crash" Pictures: Albert D'Antonio Night Controller: John Flannigan Fr1Js1rated Poobah: William Joseph Ward
:r!J 

~--~-­

Rundown on SLC candidates views listed 
Tuesday, February 26, 1974 the observer 
5 
by Gary Alietta and Greg Rowinski Staff Reporters 

Tomorrow along with the SBP elections, s~ SLC candidates will be chosen. Yesterday, the Ob­server polled each candidat~ in each district for some fmal remarks. Following is a capsule of what each candidate said. 
District 1 
Doug Stevenson, candidate in District 1, sees the main problem facing the SLC as an organizational one. To help meet this, he would begin imm~iately to set up an off-campus off1ce or center. 
Stevenson sees parietals as a 
touchy issue, which must be 
handled tactfully. He would "feel 
out" before beginning to prod it. 
He sees the need for a universal 
code of jurisdiction, which would 
strengthen hall boards and 
establish a set appeals procedure. 
Marty O'Shea, SLC candidate 
from Keenan, sees the Student 
Government's abdication of power 
in the last two years as the main 
issue in this campaign. 
"The trick is to start over again 
to build the power structure, he 
said. O'Shea feels that students 
can get recognition of their 
competency through the smooth 
operation of present services and 
through the establishment of some 
new ones. 
O'Shea hopes to help regain student power, and, at the same time, "stop the abuses of in­dividual liberties and dignity." 
District 2 
Darlene Palma, SLC candidate in District 2, pledges to work closely with the SBP and SBVP to get the LaFortune Renovation going. 
"I would like to represent the students in District 2 in a manner which the faculty and ad­ministration can't ignore," Palma said. She then pledged to "do my best" to represent the students' view when the calendar is again studied in December. 
Phyllis Mosley, SLC candidate from Breen-Phillips, would like the SLC to assume the role of problem­solver. 
"I think the SLC can be an ef­fective tool for the students to get their opinions across," she said. 
She finds satisfaction representative role. Last' year's SLC was effective, she said.  in not  that very  
District 3  

Mike Gassman, SLC candidate in District 3, would like to see pressure being taken off the ap­peals board by letting hall boards handle such cases. 
SLC has been losing power, according to Gassman. "By going around in the district, through hall meetings and monthly newsletters, I can keep the student interest in the SLC, ,-he said. 
He feels that, with student support, the SLC can get things done. 
Brian Hegarty, SLC candidate from Keenan, would publicize publicize SLC meetings and votes. 
Hegarty proposed that polls and newsletters be published periodically so that interested students could let their opinions be known and apply pressure on those voting against their interests. 
"I think that the Student Government should not hesitate to use confrontation when necessary," he said. 
Phil Mancini, SLC candidate from Holy Cross, said that he can only represent students when he knows what they want. 
"Monthly newsletters are not 
enough. Personal contact can not 
just be one-way," he said. "I will 
go around visiting sections to know 
how they feel to represent them 
fairly." 

One of the reasons he is running, 
he added, is that he had never met 
his SLC representative. 

Stan White, SLC candidate from 
Holy Cross, promises to work for 
the students' interest. 

"A vote for me is a vote for a 
person-for you--for the people's 
interest," White said. 

White's opening comments were 
inadvertently left out of Friday's 
campaign. 
District 4 

All three candidates in the district are from Grace Hall. Joe Fiorella, a freshman, felt the Judicial codes were outdated and 
Gahagan reasserts need for greater student representation on councils 
by Gary Allietta Staff Reporter 

During a four-ticket forum last night in the Morrissey lobby, Mike Gahagan stressed the need for a 50 per cent student representation on the two major campus councils. 
"Everyone is attempting to attain the same goals," Gahagan noted, "but the key to these goals is representation." 
All of the ideas brought out in the forum were good, Gahagan pointed out. Instead of going for a lot of little things, such as extended parietals or a modified LaFortune, students should go for the one big victory, equal representation, he said. 
"That way we won't have to fight the Administration as hard," 

Gahagan noted. Funds should lie
Gahagan noted. 

allotted to them for transportation. 
Someone raised a question about 
"Where the fund comes from
the LaFortune renovation bid, 
should be a decision for the new
saying that only one architect, 
Administration," Gahagan added.
Ellerbe, was contracted to work on 
In discussion later, Gahagan
campus. . 

pointed out that students seem to
Gahagan replied that if enough 
be missing the major issue, that of 
student response were elicited, the 
no say in their own government.
problem could be taken to the 
. "Students are looking at the little 
Board of Trustees for a change. 
things and missing the big pic­
Then other bidgs could be con­
ture," he said. Food co-ops,
sidered. 

Stepan, and parietals are im­
On the question of off-campus 
portant subjects, but the most
housing and transportation, 
important thing is being able to
Gahagan pointed out that "at other 
control the situation by a vote in
universities, off-campus students 
the future, noted Gahagan.
aren't considered 'exlies.'" 


"The only way we can insureHowever, because students are cheaper to go and shop at the A & P to appeal cases to itself--onlythat is by getting a 50 per centforced off, the University owes for they operate at a one per cent students can appeal cases."
representation now," he declared. 
those students something, profit margin, with which it would Other reforms of the code in­be difficult for us to compete," clude: 1) parietals and party noted Rahill. violations are to be a hall 
regulation; 2) the right to privacy;
McLaughlin appears in Morrisey forum po~:netsf~!~~~~i:o:~e~oi~~a0:d 
3) the free choice of counsel; 4) the 
b v 1 ie zurbl" 
Yst ~fe~ po t 18 
a e r er 

SBP candidate Pat McLaughlin and his vice-presidential running mate, Frank Flanagan, appeared in a forum in Morrissey's lobby last night. Candidates Capp, Oberhardt, and Gahagan were the other tickets rep~esented.. 
The main 1ssue m the McLaughlin-Flanagan platform dealt with the administration. To get proposals to the administration they must go throu~h the various committees usmg strong arguments, reason and tact. 
One important issue this ticket 

wants to change is the judicial 
code. Flanagan explained the 
system as it now stands. 
A student can go to the 
University Board and be found 
guilty for some offense and then go 
to the board of Appeals and be 
declared innocent. Macheca can 
take the case to Fr. Hesburgh who 
has the power to expel the student, 
though. , 

Besides0 changing this system, the candidates want to advise students oftheir rights on what to do if they get in a problem. Bad advice may cause a student to make a wrong decision and have his rights l~st in the process. . 
The candidates wan~ to take th1s through SLC. to get 1t changed.. They also pomted out the SLC IS currently working on the t:!robl~m. 
On the. off-<;ampus sttuatton, McLaughlin sa1d they had only student-oriented proposals. The ticket has to have stopgap measur~s _until _they ca~ deal with the adm1mstrat10n. Bastca~y ~ey want to work for a food pnce hst, publication of laws dealing with tenants, building, health ~nd safety codes, an~ altern~tlVe forms of transportabon"-possibly a computerized car pool system. 
A question as brought up about the proposed portable basketball courts being put in Stepan Center. McLaughlin stated that he and Flanagan had talked with Student Affairs earlier in the day and said nqthing.:definite was planned. He said the university's energy commission might shut down Stepan Center to conserve energy. Also, Mardi Gras is during the time the courts would be in use, and ROTC drills would present a conflict. No money was approved so far, they added. 
Greg Erickson, SBVP candidate with Ray Capp, argued that he' had also talked to student affairs and said they gave a unanimous ap­proval. The courts could be moved during Mardi Gras. 
McLaughlin commented that things "shouldn't seem definite when they are not." He added, "It is a good plan, a good proposal, but I'm sorry we made an issue out of it." 
Appearing later on at Keenan 
chapel, McLaughlin again stressed 
that the main plank of their 
platform was dealing with the 
administration. One question was ' 
asked about an off-campus student 
fund: a sum of money set aside for 
the use of o-c students proposed by 
Rahill. McLaughlin elaborated 
that the o-c wouldn't need a lot of 
money if things were run the right 
way. 

vague, and that outcomes were not defined. He also felt that the calendar issue created apathy among the students. 
Denis Sullivan, a sophomore, believes the University should change from catering to alumni and luring prospective students to helping current students. 
He does not advocate 24 hour parietals, however. "I'd like to see hall autonomy on some issues," he explained, "including parietals." 
Sophomore ChucJt Wilson plans to maintain close contact with the hall councils and the HPC. He also contends that the Administration should come together with students to get things done. 
"The hall is the center of student social life," Wilson stated. "Reform in the area of visitation is inevitable." 
District 5 
Tom Clark, a junior from 
Alumni, advocates the handling of 
student violators within the hall. 
He believes that Alumni Hall 
government, which uses this 
system, is effective. 
"I don't think we should have 24 
hour parietals, but there should be 
a modification of the present 
system," Clark added. 
John Farrell, a Dillon junior, 
said the most important job of an 
SLC  member  is  to  present  the  
students'  views  rather  than  his  
own.  

"A member should be respon­sible to the students against the Administration, with an eye to the Administration, too," Farrell said. 
He also feels that only the student body and faculty should have had a vote on the proposed calendar for next year. 
District 6 

Both candidates are from Morrissey. 
Rob Tully, a freshman, stated that SLC members must get firmer and not allow the Administration to pressure them into decisions. 
"The SLC is working on parietals right now," Tully said. "Macheca has been stepping out of bounds and infringing on students rights." He added that students have more power than they think. 
Art Derse, a sophomore, feels that more "open forums" are needed at SLC meetings to allow students a greater voice in government. 
Also, human sexuality laws should be more clearly written and violators should know of thei; rights to a J-board hearing. He also expressed a need for party and coffee houses within the dorms. 

Rahill attacks foes 
(continued from page 2) 
sanitary codes would further The SBP candidate felt also that complicate the proposed food co­there is a need to overcome the op. "The co-op must be inspected cultural and social paralysis at by the Board of Health and where Notre Dame by giving birth to meats are kept there must be a anew social awakening . "There sink with two or three basins with will be a united effort for the water at a temperature of 170 student government to form social degrees. These are only some of centers in each hall, open to the the required sanitary facilities entire community. Through the which would be difficult to comply HPC we can get low pressurewith," he explained. social centers," declared Rahill. 
Rahill then pointed out the in­"We would also like to bring out feasibility for buying food at cost campus talents in such activities from the dining halls and cited an as art fairs, student literary example at Cornell University. festivals and student music Cornell has tried this idea with festivals," said Rahill. "We must fraternities and sororities and they get away from internalism. This have always failed. "The will help us achieve true fraternities and sororities would coeducation." buy their food in bulk and still Another R a hi II-Wordal there never was enough patronage proposal is the rewriting of the to pay for operating cost," said Judicial Code. "We have rewritten the candidate. the code to meet the AAUP stan­
"The cost could not realistically dards on student right," explained be absorbed by the student Rahill "Chief among the changes is rgovernment and it would still be that the University is not allowed 
practicality of their platforms," he implimentationof a hearing board said. "We can no longer tolerate which takes the hearing out of the the disintergration of the com-Dean of Students office; 5 l munity, therefore, we need to students can not be forced by the promote those actions which university to change their address; preserve the community structure and 6) the university stand on sex here at Notre Dame." regulations will be takenoutof the­
To preserve that community coee as a university rule and structure and keep the off-campus transferred to a university students part of the community, philosophy. the Rahill Wordal Ticket proposed When asked how these changes an off-campus commission, with will be put into action, Rahill a monitaryallowance to be spent responded, "We have formulated a for the benefit of off-campus non-violent, non-strike action students only. which will be an effective means of 
"A creation of a new commission applying pressure to gain student in theStudent Union canimpliment rights." the following block parties, food-When questioned as to what price information bureau with a the plan was, Rahill answered, constant survey of food prices in "We'd rather not reveal the plan at the area, an off-campus housing this time because its revelation 
boardwith houses, roommates etc., might deem the plan ineffective." off-campus dining nights sub-In conclusion Rahill said, "Other sidized by the student government candidates are focusing their which would enable students to get platform toward one or two a discount on dinner, a washer and problems of student life. We have a dryer in the off-campus office provided the best solutions to the and an off-campus rider board," problems in all areas of student said Rahill. life." 
Tuesday, February 26, 1974
the observer 

At least $100 hike 
New rise in tuition coming 
by Ken Bradford 
Staff Reporter 

Notre Dame students should expect at least a one hundred dollar increase in next year's tuition, Vice-President for Business Affairs Fr. Jerome Wilson stated yesterday. 
Fat Tuesday slims wallets 
NEW ORLEANS (UPI) Carnival rolled Monday toward Mardi Gras-to the accompani­ment of clanging cash regis­ters, tinkling glasses and chattering teeth in French Quarter bars and nightspots. 
The affluent rented $50 a night hotel rooms. 
The bearded and long-haired slept in "crash pads," or rolled up in sleeping bags on the Mississippi River levees. 
They all were gathered to have what fun they could in the time left before midnight Tuesday, when the 40 days of Lent begin. . 
For the thousands of people who wear masks, body paint and costumes, some of them the briefest imaginable, the weatherman forecast a very chilly morning, but a sunny day warmed things up to about 60. 
"It's wall-to-wall crowd and much, much larger than last year," one policeman. said. "It seems like the number of drunks, disturbing the peace and loitering cases have in­creased." 
"It's really too early to tell exactly how much the increase will be, but tuition will have to go up more than a hundred dollars," Fr. Wilson said. 
"We're trying to keep all in­creases at the lowest figures possible and this is forcing us to spend a lot of time considering next year's budgets," Fr. Wilson explained. 
The Budget Committee will eventually recommend to Fr. Hesburgh the increase it feels is necessary. 
The tuition increase is expected to help offset increases in salary, supplies, and repair expenses, Fr. Wilson noted. 
"A five per cent increase in salaries alone requires about an extra hundred dollars per student, including graduate students," Fr. Wilson stated. 
He also noted that the rising cost of food has administrators con­cerned about the charge for student room and board. 
According to Fr. Wilson, reports from other universities such as Brown, Boston University, Stanford, and Yale show average tuition increases for next year of two hundred dollars. 
When asked if tuition prices will soon level off, Fr. Wilson said, "I'm in my twenty-second year on the job and there has been only one year when we didn't have to have a tuition increase." 
Extra fee proposed for over 17 credits 
by Andy Swanfeldt Staff Reporter 

A proposal for students to pay an additional fee for each course over the seventeen credit limit has once again been brought before the Academic Council. Presently, students must obtain the per­mission of their dean to be allowed to take more than seventeen credits per semester. 
The only exceptions to 17 hour rule are those who are majoring in Architecture or Engineering. It is quite hard for these students to take less than 17 credits to fulfill their requirements. 
Dean Thompson, associate dean for the College of Arts and Letters, said that he did not know when the proposal would come before the Academic Council. He explained that "The proposal has to be given to the council and then shown to all the deans for approval. At this time it is only a proposal." ­
It has also been mentioned that students who drop a course during one semester and then want to take it again the following semester will have to pay more the second time around. 
This proposal has bearing on all courses within the College of Arts and Letters , and could pose a problem for AL majors. 
Marketing lecture offered tonit 
James E. Hall, branch marketing manager, Honeywell Information Systems, Inc., will discuss "The Marketing Picture in 1974" Tuesday, February 26, at 
7:30 p.m. in Carroll Hall at SMC. 
SMC to host
• f

meet1ng 0 

crime councilr-------.------------, 
Saint Mary's College will host the first organizational meeting of 
the st. Joseph County Criminal
Justice Coordinating Council on Wednesday, February 27, 1974, at 
5:00 p.m. Local city ·and county officials and representatives of law enforcement agencies are forming this inter-county Council in an effort to consolidate resources effectively to combat crime. 
Judge Norman Kopec, Superior Court, will temporarily chair the Council in its organizational stages. The Criminal Justice Planning Bureau· has agreed to provide administrative and research help to the Council. 
Dr. Edward L. Henry, Saint Mary's president, stated, "I am happy that Saint Mary's College is able to host this first meeting. My experience as mayor of St. Cloud, Minnesota, and my past work with a criminal justice regional agency, have proven to me that this type of council can be successful and prove invaluable in developing county-wide cooperation and coordination of resources in an effort to control crime." 
Among those participating in the first meeting are Jerry J. Miller, mayor, South Bend; Margaret Prickett, mayor, Mishawaka and Dr. Les Foschio, Notre Dame School of Law. 
Hall joined General Electric in 1967 as part of the company's computer division marketing development program. At that time he worked as a systems analyst training customers and installing business applications on various G.E. computer equipment in the Detroit area. In 1969 he became a marketing represen­
tative. Hall. joined Honeywell In­formation Systems, Inc., when 
G.E. and Honeywell merged in 1970. In 1972 he was promoted to branch marketing manager in South Bend. 
Tuesday evening's lecture is part of the continuing series "Contemporary Issues in Business and Economics," sponsored by the department of business ad­ministration and economics at Saint Mary's. The public is invited to attend without charge. 
Final Meeting Utah Ski Trip 
pm Tuesday, Feb. 26 $25 depos"1t 
LaFortune 1-C 


220 W. Marion -Elkhart Serving Michiana's Music Community for 25 years 
Special Student Discount Bring your student ID 




Support Your 
Own Cause! 
~Sign the INPJRG Petition 
MORRIS 

CIVIC AUDITORIUM~. fRI. & SAT. MAR. 1 & 2 -8:30 p.m.

A Broadway Theater League Presentation 
lWo 

GENilfMEN 

OF~~~ 
~ BEST MUSICAL ~.. ~TONY AWARD WINNER;: 
BOX OFFICE NOW OPEN 
10 am 'til 5 pm (~on.-Sat.) 

TICKETS NOW ON SALE AT 
STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE OPEN l-5 DAILY· 
· 
t-----------------------4 






NOW RENTING C, BEgRNJo~~~':~SHED
A APARTMENTS 
M Featuring: p 
u 
* 
SWIMMING POOL *COMMUNITY BUILDING 

* 2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM APTS.

s 
* AIR CONDITIONING 

* 
DISHWASHER 

* 
RANGE 



v 
* 
REFRIGERATOR 

* 
GARBAGE DISPOSAL 

* 
TENNIS COURT 




E 
LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS! 
I * 

w CALL 232-5853 FOR RENTAL INFORMATION 

OR VISIT: CRESTWOOD MANAGEMENT COMPANY 30 12 EAST EDISON ROAD SOUTH BEND 

---~-­

Tuesday, February 26, 1974 the observer 
Nixon conducts press briefing: CLASSIFIED ADS 

covers Agnew-, Solzhenitsyn 
PERSONALS 
NOTic•s 

(continued from page 1) 
Nixon was asked whether he thought the conduct of former Vice President Spiro T. Agnew in denying wrongdoing during the weeks before his resignation Act. 10, 1973 had brought "dishonor on his office, this administration and the country." 
On a topic sensitive to domestic opinion and international relations, Nixon expressed ad­miration for the "great courag~" shown by the expelled Sovtet writer, Alexander I. Sol~enits~n, but he said confrontation wtth 
a suspended sentence. 
"It would be very easy for me to jump on the vice president when he by Chris O'Brien is down," Nixon said, but he said Staff Reporterhe would not. Agnew "gave dedicated service" and he and his Last night in LaFortune Student family went through a "difficult Center, the LaFortune Renovation time." committee held an informational 
Nixon said Agnew resigned-"as meeting. Dan Schipp, Ken Knevel, I think he should have" -to save Dave Caruso, and Steve Carter, the administration em­the committee's representatives barrassment. in a meeting with Dr. Philip 
Faccenda, called the meeting to 
InPIRG attempts to assess optional fees 
by Judy Peterson Starr Reporter 

InPIRG, the Public Interest Research Group, began its drive Monday to assess each student $3.00 beginning next fall. InPIRG is a nationwide organization which deals with consumer issues and grievances. It serves to amplify the ordinary citizen's voice, providing a balance between the consuming public and private enterprise. 
The $3.00 fee is strictly optional. Although it would automatically be 
charged  to  the  student's  bill,  a  
designated  ·~em  would  be  
established  to  refund  the  full  

amount to those students who do not wish to contribute. A total of 66 students will can­
vass the halls at Notre Dame this week circulating the petitions for the assessment. Booths are being set up in the library and the Huddle to reach off-campus students. The library booth will be open from 6 pm to 11 pm. There are no set hours for the Huddle booth, which will be in operation during the day. 
A meeting will be held Wed­nesday night at 10:00 in the lobby of LeMans Hall to set up the St. Marys' petition drive, which will begin Sunday afternoon. 
Ken Hughes, who is heading the drive, stressed the fact that more volunteers are needed at both schools. Students interested in helping may sign up Wednesday night or contact Hughes at InPIRG headquarters, which is located in the basement of LaFortune. 
The 16th Collegiate Jazz Festival will be presented by the University of Notre Dame on April 4-6. This festival will bring 20 college bands and combos from around the country to Notre Dame to compete before a group of eminent judges from the jazz world. 
Willis Conover will be the master of ceremonies this year. The judges will include Roy Haynes ­drums, Ahmad Jamal -piano, Charlie Haden -bass, Billy Harper, who plays for the Gil Evans band ­tenor sax, Bill Watrous-trombone, and Dan Morgenstern, former editor of Down Beat. 
The festival opens on Thursday, the fourth, with a Symposium in the Library Auditorium at 7:30 
p.m. This event is similar to the Blindfold Test, popularized by Down Beat. The judges will give opinions on recordings played for them and will also answer questions from the audience. 
On Friday, the fifth, the opening music session will be held in Stepan Center. At 7:30 p.m., six large bands and combos from various colleges will start the competition. 
The remaining bands and combos will compete on Saturday, the sixth, in two separate sessions, 
1:00 p.m. and 7:30p.m. At mid­night, on Saturday, the judges will close the festival by holding their own jam session. 
According to Kenneth Lee, chairman of the Jazz Festival, "This is the oldest Collegiate Jazz Festival in the country. The CJF 
·~ 
..,.< ..... -~·j-<; . 
• • -• ' ' ' • ' .-~ "!'I 
''.. '. 

Moscow over his treatment would benefit no one. 
Nixon was critical of congressional delay in passing emergency energy legislation and of the demand by many Democrats that the bill carry a rollback of petroleum prices. 
ND's sixteenth collegiate jazz festival 
will highlight twenty groups this April 
To the Italian connoiseur: Its just you n mefor always and always and ever and ever. 
H.L. !:mergency just blacked out, need mouth to mouth resuscitation. 
one breathless mole. 
Basket ball fans: will this be 
the week of the Geek? Or will
The question was the first Nixon Must be l"nexpensl"ve
had been asked about his former they balk at using the hawk? 
will Leo be able to show that
vice president since Agnew 
he's not so slow on the give and
pleaded no contest to a count of 
go? I dont know. 

income tax evasion and was given 

LaFortune cost cited 
Dear Bill and Helen, 

Thanks for the shorts and jock. They've improved my handball
brief the other members on the 
game 10 points. 
events of the past few months. 

John. 
"Basically," said Schipp, "the 
Pork,

main factor is expense, and we 
Nice girls dont do that. WEO
have to face the reality that these 
2 PO's + friend. 
renovations must be as inex­pensive as possible." 
Golden Boy,

Plans must be drawn up that will 
How much harder can 1yank?
be as beneficial as possible with 
Close Observer. 
the least cost, added Ken Knevel. 
Pam Jagovich,

The committee representatives 
Heard you were jumping out of
then emphasized that they must 
a cake. WEO. 

make use of as much that is 
Kathy F.,

presently in LaFortune as 
Sorry about the kiss ... I lost my
possible. 
head.

Schipp then stated that much of 
Love,
the flak between students and 
John. 
administration over the renovation had come from misinterpretation of ideas on both sides. 
FOR SALE

"For a while, it looked as though the student's ideas might be 
Handmade Indian jewelry shelved, but it became clear that it 
from the Southwest. Call Tom 8373.
was just a mix-up," commented Schipp. The way it now stands, he 
Top quality reel to reel tape
said, all plans for the renovation of 
decks. Unopened at low prices. 
CaII 8436 or 8782.

LaFortune will be presented to the 
Executive Board of Trustees on 
Canon FTB(QLJ 35 mm SLR
March 15th. 

f1.4. Also 135 mm telephoto as.
"Dr. Faccenda, who has been 
205 mm zoom telephoto, 28 m wide angle 3x teleconverter, all with filters and cases. Bruce,
working with us, will present out 
plan at the meeting," he added. 
289-4336.

Some of the student's ideas were to transform the basement into a 
FOR RENT

pub and to make room for WSND to move their station to LaFortune. 
1 BR apt,furnished. Heat and 
However, the pub or rathskellar 
water provided. On bus line. $85 mo. Assume lease Mar. Aug. Call287-1114 or 289-9014.
idea is still very indefinite because 
Indiana adheres to the legal drinking age at 21. 
stan and myself have worked of these sessions. They're still 


extremely hard to get everything cheaper than most other con­in order and to assemble a certs." distinguished panel of judges. Tickets for the Festival will be Throughout the country, there is a $3.oo for Friday night, $2.00 for resurgence in jazz interest, Saturday afternoon and $4.00 for especially on the college campus, Saturday night. Thursday's but at Notre D~me,. home of_ the Symposium is free. An all session greates~ collegiate ~az~ festival, ticket can also be purchased at 
we  recteve  the  maJority  of  our  $7.oo. a $2.00 savings.  T.,m McMahon  
audience  from  the  South  Bend  General Agent  
area.  Even  if  you  have  never  For further information, call283­ 
heard jazz before, try to attend one 3797.  

~::,,:

5 ACADEMY AWARD 
··:::~i;:·

NOMINATIONS INCLUDING: BEST PICTURE BEST DIRECTOR, & BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS 

N.,rm Wallace
307 ~ Michigan St. 288-/800 




(jt!OI!EATRI Now Showing 
OPEN 7:00 

T.·m Scllirr 



.Carl!on Higgenbotham 

r • f f • • •' •' 1 'I"' f o,! 1 f 1' I • r I f C; I I 
Morrissey Loan Fund : Loan up to $150 for 30 days , 1 per cent Interest service charge . One day walt. Basement of LaFortune. Hours 11:15-12:15. 
SMC Summer School In London , travel In Ireland Scotland, Wales England and Paris. May 20-Jun 20. College Credit available. $795 plus tuition. Professor Black 284-4948 office, 272-3726 home. 
Experienced typist will do typing. Themes, Manuscripts, call 233-5332. 
Spring Break in Acapulco, Bahamas, or Puerto Rico via Vagabond Tours. S199. Kel 233­4818. 
GOOD Tix now available fro 2 Gentlemen of Verona at Morris Civic Mar. 1 and 2. Student Union ticket office open 1-5 daily. 
OVERSEAS JOBS: Austrailia , Europe, S. America, Africa. Sudents all professions and occupations. $700-$3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing, free information. TRANS WORLD RESEARCH CO., Dept F3, 
P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, Ca. 94925. 
WANTED 
Newly opened night club in NO area needs cocktail waitresses. Ca II Dave 232-5653. 
Motor home leaving for Aspen 
Colo Mar. 8. share gas. 289-2463 befo Need Call AI re 5.  riders to Brasseur  
Urgent! Nee7. Will shapenses. Call  d rideto re drivinimme NJ Mar. g + ex­diately.  

Margaret 234-7596. 
Need 2 tix each night for Wisconsin hockey series . Call Pat after 5 272-4398. 
RIDES WANTED 
Need ride to Conn. Spring Break. Call Cary 8898. 
Need ride to DC Mar. 8. Call Jeanne 6728. 
Need ride to Boston Spring Break. CaiiJim 8549. 

''e~tr after ~·ear, "eme"terI after "emester, the ( 'ollege!Vl aster· from 
Fidelit\ Cnion I jfe ha" heen the most accepted, most popular plan on campuses all over America. 
Find out ''h'. 
Call the FidelitY L nion C•)llegeMaster· Field Associate m your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend , Ind. 

Phone 287-2327 
'~loo !:;o(_'~. 
.,:!'~ 
'•
:., 
r
•


COllegeMaster· 
--~-----­
8 the observer Tuesday, February 26, 1974 





ND cagers entertain BSU tonight 
r. 
Shafer Suggs. Suggs, who brokeby Hal Munger his wrist and was out for five 
Despite losing their last four games before returning to score 20 games, three of them on the road, points and collect 14 rebounds the Ball State Cardinals are en­agiainst Illinois State has 11.7 joying their best record in 10 years points per contest. (14-10), and they would like The Fighting! Irish hold a 7-0 edge nothing better than to unseat Notre in the series with the Mid­Dame, the nation's second place American C.onference crew from team tonight. Muncie. Dating back to 1833 and 
Two potential All-Americans will continuing on and off through the be featured in this evening's years, the Cardinals last met the contest. Irish strongman John Irish in 1965 when Notre Dame Shumate, hot off a 25 point per­handily downed Ball State 116-82. formance in the 108-80 pasting of Third year Irish mentor Digger West Virginia will be at the pivot Phelps faces second year Cardinal position. In the latest NCAA coach Jim Holstein. Holstein's figures <not including the West team has accomplished a mild Virginia game) the big Shu holds turnaround since last season record fifth position in field goal per­of 9-15, and has the first BSU centages: .633. He is 19th winning record in ten years. nationally in scoring at a rate of Digger's charges, eager for that 
23.0 points per game. NCAA bid hope to keep this year's 
Opposing Shu will be Ball State's perfect slate at the ACC in tact and 6' -2" senior guard Larry will be out to win their 20th straight Bullington who presently is the game at home. Only Villanova nations' number five scorer, with a remains this Saturday before the 
25.9 point average. He is also regular season finale at Dayton shooting at an .856 pace from the March 4. The Irish are shooting for foul line dropping in 143 of his 167 their most wins since 1957-58 when attempts good for seventh place in they went 24-5. the country. Bullington is Shumate, Goose Novak, Gary currently Ball State's all-time Brokaw, Dwight Clay, and Adrian leading scorer. Dantley will again be the starters 

Chris Collins helps provide the tonight with reserves Billy Paterno muscle under the boards for the and Ray Martin ready when need Cardinals. The 6'-7" senior from be. Dantley is hot off that torrid 41 
Muncie is the squad's top point performance last Saturday. rebounder and is averaging 14'7 He and his cohorts plan to pull off a points per game. He receives help Cardinal operation tonight starting from 6'-2" sophomore forward at 8. 
Irish trackmen drop pair 
double victory Saturday in the 880-against the Hawkeyes and wonby Pete McHugh 



OBSERVER

yard and 1000-yard runs. With a with a sparkling 4:12.7. 
Despite fine performances by 2: 11.0 clocking in the 1000-yard run Mike Gahagan, Jim Reinhart, and he broke the old Iowa Fieldhouse Against Western Michigan AI Pulikowski, the Notre Dame record and came within one-tenth Thursday night, Notre Dame could 
SPORTS

track team could not match the of a second of qualifying for the hold only an early lead behind overall depth of its opposition and NCAA Indoor Championships. He Gahagan and Pulikowski before lost 851!:!-451!:! to Western Michigan won the 880-yard run with a 1:57.8 the Broncos stampeded. and 80-51 to Iowa in weekend track timing. Sophomore Mike Hogan and Bob meets. Schott took the only other victories Freshmen Pulikowski and for the Irish in the pole vault Western Michigan dominated Reinhart also captured victories in competition and 440-yard dash 
Swimmers drop ISU as 

both meets. Pulikowski, who respectively.
the dash ami jump events to breeze placed first in the Centralto its 43rd .consecutive dual meet 

Collegiate Conference meet, took Notre Dame
victory Thursday night at the ACC. Hogan, who set a Stark gets lOOth win
shot put honors with a 53'-8" heave record at the CCC meet with a 15-6Iowa swept scoring honors in the against the Broncos and a 54-91!:! vault, tied that mark and narrowly 
400-yard dash, two mile run, and by Hal Munger the team's reaching his century
effort against the Hawkeyes. missed a 16·1 vault, the qualifying
high jump to win easily Saturday mark. 
m Iowa City. The setbacks standard for the NCAAs, in his last Any coach will tell you talent is Indeed it was a team effort as the attempt. Schott took the lone Irish
lowered Notre Dame's record to 2-Reinhart, one of the nation's necessary to win, but sometimes Irish handled the first relay of the 
6 this season. leading high school milers last victory in a dash event with a :50.4 an added incentive in addition to day taking the 400 Medley in 3:42.7. timing in the quarter mile.
year, won the two mile event that talent makes the difference Making up that squad were Bob For the Irish, Gahagan was most Thursday against Western between winning and losing. Thompson, Jim Fischer, Jim
In the 880-yard and 1000-yard

impressive in the losing cause. In Michigan in 9:11.1, Notre Dame's Saturday at Illinois State Meagher, and Kane. After Illinois 
runs, Notre Dame came just in­

addition to taking the mile against , second fastest time this season in University the Fighting Irish won the 1000 free, Joe O'Connor
ches away from victory. Junior 

Western Michigan, the junior from the grueling 20 lap event. He swi~mers had that extra push, swam to a 1:49.9 victory in the 200
Mike Housley, who led through

Madison, Wisconsin scored a returned to his mile specialty and It resulted in a one point, one yard free. Then Kane finished
most of the half-mile event, placed 
tenth of a second ND victory in the number one in the 50 yard freestyle 
second only a step and a tenth of a 
day's last event. with a :22.4 time. ISU took the 200
second behind Western Michigan's 
individual medley but sophomore
Steve Brown. In the 2000-yard
WhoS really No. 1? 
The final score was 57-56 on Jim Mark Foster won the 1 meter
competition, sophomore Joe Yates 
Kane's work in the 400-yard diving for ND. At this time the
finished just a half-second from the 
freestyle relay. Going into that Irish enjoyed their biggest lead of t Editor's note: The following was Lions. Since Penn State beat winner. 

last event Illinois State was the meet 29-23. ISU captured thefound in the Lafayette University Syracuse by 43, we are therefore holding a 56-50 edge and one point next two events before Bobstudent newspaper: 100 points better than Syracuse.

t Saturday in Iowa City, the Irish was all that was necessary for ISU Thompson set a new ND record in
Syracuse, then was defeated by 

took six firsts but could manage to wrap up the victory and end the the 200 yard back stroke. His
For the second consecutive year Miami of Florida by an 11 point the Lafayette Leopard football margin, so the Leopards are 89 only one win in a track event under Irish dual meet season one short of clocking at 2:04.498 erased the old
t 880 yards. Junior Jack Gerwe Coach Dennis Stark's lOOth career varsity mark.
squad should be ranked number points better than Miami. And, 

accounted for that victory with a 
I 
win. If ND lost that relay the In the 500 yard free lllinois tied
A because Miami lost to Oklahoma

one in the country. secret first place showing in the 70-yard season mark would have stayed at things up at 44 apiece then took the 
national rating service gives this by four, ·we are 85 points better 

high hurdles ( :08.7). Freshman 7 victories (tied with the old lead with a 200 yard breaststroke
sound reasoning based on actual than the Sooners. 

Dan Knott captured his first win of record) but instead Kane, Freshman Bob Ebel came
win.
scores: 

the season in the triple jump with a swimming the final leg overcame a through with some tough, clutch
The Sooners beat Nebraska by 
Since the Leopards beat Penn by 27, so therefore we are 112 points 46-5% effort. body length deficit to set a school dives to keep the Irish within ~ two points, we are two points better than the Cornhuskers. record and collect the 7 relay striking distance. At this time the
Yates and Houseley, combining

better than Penn. And, since Penn Then, since Nebraska beat UCLA, points. Jim won it in the final 25 Irish were down by 6 points. Drew
with Gahagan and Reinhart, gave
t defeated Princeton by 24, we are 26 by 27 points, we are therefore 139 yards to stop the clock at 3:16.457 Wallach, Meagher, and O'Connor points better than Princeton. points better than UCLA. And Notre Dame a strong showing in in what proved an exciting finale tried to make the lost distance
the distance events. Yates finished 
t Princeton, in turn, beat Colgate by because UCLA beat Stanford by 46, for the fine dual meet swimming but it was Kane, the junior two
second in both the half-mile and 
season.

16, so we are 42 points better than Lafayette is 185 points better than time Most Valuable Swimmer who
mile runs, while Housley took
~ the Red Raiders. And because Stanford. Eight and four is the way the provided the heroics and added the Colgate beat Rutgers by 42 points, runner-up honors in the 1000-yard ledger reads for 1973-74 with only picture-perfect finish. we . are 84 points better than Since Stanford was beaten by run. Freshman John Long also the Detroit Motor City Invitational l Coach Stark was very pleased
placed second in the 600-yard run. Relays left. That three day
Rutgers. U.S.C. by one point, we are 184 with his team's performance points better than U.S.C. And championship meet includes eight stressing it a team victory, this 
I 
Since Rutgers was overcome by finally, since U.S.C. was beaten by In their final home indoor ap­teams and is hosted by Wayne point being backed up hy the fact Air Force by 17, we are therefore number one ranked Notre Dame pearance of the year, the Irish State University. Last year the that 10 individual best marks of the 67 points better than Air Force. In by nine points, the Pards are 175 entertain Drake University Friday Irish took first place honors in the season were established Satur­turn, Air Force was beaten by points better than the fighting at 6:30 p.m. in the ACC. Ad­invitational. day. He is optimistic about this Penn State by 10 points, so we are Irish. There is no doubt who is mission is free for all students "Lots of desire and a great team weekend's competition, the final 
57 points better than the Nittany really number one. upon presentation of an ID. effort," were Stark's comments on action of the year for the tankers. 





