Ou The luslde 
Streaker crackdown ... page 3 
Food Stamps for students ... page 6 
~ --· -------­
--~-~---~· 


serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
Vol. VIII No. 103 Tuesday, April 2, 1974 
Exxon man calls
NewSB cabinet ­
set energycrisis real 
by Pat Flynn 
Staff Reporter 

Newly elected Student Body President Pat McLaughlin announced the completion of the long-awaited list of Student Government cabinet positions yesterday afternoon. Heading the list were seven Commissioner positions: Junior Management major Bob Howl as Off-Campus Commissioner; Bill McLean, Junior Economics major, reap­pointed for his second year as Ombudsman; Junior Government major Ray Capp, as Campus Life Commissioner; Junior American Studies major Brian McGinty, as Judicial Commissioner (with Junior can work well with those under them," stated McLaughlin. 
When asked about the large number of SBP and SBVP candidates placed on the cabinet staff, McLaughlin said, "Everyone before the election agr~ that all the candidates were good, all were talented and had a lot to offer. Just because we won doesn't mean that any of these other candidates should not be part of Student Government next year." 
McLaughlin indicated that each of the commissioners will have a staff under him which he would run pretty much by himself. In the cases of the Campus Life Commission and the Administrative Commission, these may be as large as 75 people each, he said. 

New SBP Pat Mclaughlin, hard at work after 
Management major Ed Rahill assisting as 
Legal Advisor); Junior Psychology major 
Melainne Marshall, as Human Affairs 
Commissioner; Junior Finance major Jim 
Ambrose as Academic Commissioner; and 
Junior Accounting major Mike Schnaus as 
Treasurer. 
McLaughlin commented after the an­nouncement of the Cabinet selections that the positions had been filled on the basis of who he thought could best do each job. "The com­missioners appointed are people I know well, and know I can depend on to get a job done. They all are hard workers, are not afraid to ask questions or make criticisms and they 
selecting his Cabinet. (photo by Chris Smith)­
"We hope to put a lot of people into such projects as party service, coffee house (available 3 days a week) and an off-campus shuttle bus system. This mostly will be light work, but by putting a lot of people into these kinds of projects we can keep them going all the time," McLaughlin continued. 
McLaughlin also stated that although each of the cabinet members will have his own specific position and job, all of the psoitions overlap and they all will have to work together. 
A general meeting of all persons working for Student Government will be held Wed­nesday, April 3 in the LaFortune Fiesta Lounge, McLaughlin said. 
by Ken Girouard ,. 
Staff Reporter 
Robert Longmire, Fuel Oil Coordinator for the Exxon Cor­poration, presented a lecture yesterday emphasizing the need for concern about the future· energy needs of the world. 
Speaking before the Energy Crisis Conference in the Center for Continuing Education, Longmire said that many people doubted that there really was an energy crisis. He affirmed the existence of the problems saying, "Its a geo­political-economic problem which causes a great amount of con­fusion." He added, "No sense can be made of the whole situation unless we look at the whole pic­ture." 
The fuel executive then presented the world-wide aspects of the energy crunch, stating that the immediate problems were caused mainly by the nations that own the oil. He insisted, though, that while what actually happens right now may be determined by a few Middle Eastern nations, the problem is more deeply rooted. 
Longmire said that the demand fo fuel oil and other hydrocarbons has become so large that the world is simply running out. "If we keep on the way we're going," he ex­plained, "by 1985 we will double use of oil from 100. million to 200 million barrels a day." 
Although the yearly new discovery rate of oil is ap­proximately 20 billion barrels, he continued, "we are using the reserves at a rate equal to and exceeding the rate of new discovery." 
After discussing the world-wide aspect of the problem, Longmire presented the situation in the United States. "It's a ·fragile condition," he said. "Not a crisis, but a very tight-supply -demand condition that can create distor-. tions in the actual conditions." 
Commenting on the ecological question which is inevitably a part of the development of new resources, Longmire said, "We do 
have to make a choice. If we want 
1200 students to participate 
to have a clean environment, we have to pay a price." He added that the oil companies were willing to pay the ~·price and many steps are being taken in order to protect the environment. 
Continuing his presentation, Longmire next touched upon the steps being taken for future energy considerations. He explained that research was being carried on with th.e non-oil energy producers such as coal, nuClear energy, and geothermal power. 
In his final comments, the oil executive stressed the importance of public conservation of energy. He said, "We believe that a much more judicious use of our energy is essential." 
Backing up this statement, Longmire noted that this year heavy oil use has dropped 25 per cent from what was expected. He cautioned the audience, however, by saying, "The real question is if this conservatism will stick. From an economic and industrial standpoint I think it will. On the individual ·level, I just don't know'." 
Longmire closed his lecture with the statement, "We have a problem that represents a serious challenge. It requires thought, sacrifice, and most importantly, 

Health Service surVey to be taken this week 
by Fred Graver Contributing Editor 
The University Health Services will distribute 1200 surveys among the student body this week in an effort to help the staff determine student attitudes toward the In­firmary and the extent of use of the services provided by the In­firmary. A copy of the survey was included in the Health Services Report, presented on March 27 to the Student Affairs Committee and the Board of Trustees by the staff of the Student's Infirmary of the University. 
The survey centers on student evaluations of the Infirmary, an estimate of the student's necessary medical attention, and the type of medical attention usually sought by the student. 
Also included in the report was a list of services being performed and developed in the Infirmary. These services are: a) treatment of persons with minor complaints or injuries, if they are eligible; b) providing referrals to other physicians, including specialists; 
c) consultation by the medical and­or nursing staff on healtb problems; d) education of studenu in proper health habits; e) study of incidences, prevalence and severity of certain types of illness; and f) development of an adequate preventive medical program. 
Eight improvements in the In-. firmary during the current school · year were cited in the report. Among them are the addition of a. part-time physician, Dr. Robert Tbompson, the establishment of regualr staff meetings, and a new policy of purchasing all food from the Notre Dame commissary, for reasons of economy. 
Plans for the near future cited in the report center around the relocation of the clinic rooms. This will be done, without an outlay of money, for two reasons: 1) the need for confidentiality, and 2) the proposed establishment of a special area for patients needing allergy shots. · 
A copy of the Health Information letter given to students and staff members was part of the report. This contained a short description of the Infirmary and its aiins, a summary of the process whict. each student encounters when visiting the Infirmary, a list of emergency procedures, and in­formation on charges and in­surance practices. 
A special portion of the report, dealing with current priorities and objectives of the Infirmary, was prepared by the Hospital A~­ministrator, Sister Miriam Dolores, CSC. This section of the report raises three questions about the future of the Infirmary: 
1) How important is the In­firmary (Student Health Center) in the many facets of University life? 
2) How ~ffective is the service on the, health of the student body? 
3) How does it relate to any other enterprises on the campus? 
In answering these questions, Sr. Miriam Dolores considered the attitudes toward the Infirmary by the administration, staff, and student body, the utilization of the services offered by the Infirmary, the cost of providing the services, and the end results. The summary of the speclil report quotes from the manual of the American College Health Association, in which Notre Dame previously held membership. The quote reads: 
"The academic community. 
presents a unique environment. The health needs of this com­munity can best be met by a comprehensive program in which health professionals from all of the major disciplines work together in a team setting." 
A letter from the mother of a student treated in the Infirmary last year was attached to the report. She extended her thanks to all of the staff at the Infirmary for their prompt and effective treatment of her son. In reference to this letter, the final paragraph of the report reads: 
"The Infirmary is a Student Health Service. Being of service to someone in need must be most pleasing to God as it is so Christian. The letter speaks for itself. If the staff of the Infmnary bas been able to save but_~ life, then all the tribulation is worth­while." 
11"""-----------------------------·---~----------~----­
the observer Tuesday, April 2, 1974
2 

Wednesd~y and Thursday 

warld 
briefs 
BUENOS AIRES, (UPI)--A kidnapped Argentine army colonel freed by leftist gu~rrillas after a 45-minute interrogation was questioned Monday by his commanding general and intelligence officers. 
The People's Revolutionary Army still holds two other army officers and American oil executive Victor E. Samuelson, 37, of Cleveland. 
ANNAPOLIS, Md. (UPI(--A court of ap­peals hears final arguments today on former Vice-President Agnew's future as a prac­ticing lawyer in Maryland. 
FLORIANAPOLIS, Brazil-One week after the port city of Tubarao was devastated by floods, rescue workers are still searching formoe and the final tool is expected to be several hundred. 
SAIGON, North VietNam--North Viet­namese snippers penetrated encircled Due Hue Ranger base but were forced out again in heavy fighting. 
an ca~pus taday 
1:00pm -meeting, ladles of notre dame, library aud. 1:00-4:00 pm -art exhibition, (drawings and paintings by sr. tanaguchl), isis gallery-old fieldhouse 
4:15 pm -lecture, "a genre who's time had come," dr. robert scholes, library aud. 
4:30pm -lecture, "ecological problems In nature: conservation around the world,'' george a. petrldes, dept. of fisheries and wildlife, mlch. st. u., spon. by blo. dept. coffee preceding, galvin aud. 
6:;30 & 10 pm-film, "the godfather", washington hall 
7:00pm-meet your major, government, 104 o'shag. 
7:30pm. lent series, "the paschal mystery: I am with you all 
days"', augusta hall 7:30pm-lecture, "respect for the unborn," keefe montgomery and therese bush, stapleton lounge-SMC 
7:30pm-lecture, "the avantl story,'' mr. leo newman, partner of avantl motor corp., spon. by management club, 120 hayes­healy 
8:00 pm -meet your major, anthropology, senior bar 8:00pm-meet your major, music, 104 o'shag 8:00pm -lecture, "the second gun", RFK lecture, library aud. 9:00pm-meet your mafor, education, 104o'shag 
THI Bill 



PIOPU 

Some people say Turin Bicycle has the largest selection of custom racing and touring bicycles and accessories in America. We don't know if that's ture, but we do know we carry an awful lot of brands. From Italy: Colnago, Galmozzi, Poglighi, DeRosa, and Cinelli. From England: Bob Jackson, Hetchins, Mercian, Raleigh, and Carlton. From France: Motobecane. From the USA: Eisentraut, ling, Bob Meyers, and Yellow Jersey. And more-from Japan·, Holland, Germany, and Argentina. What's more, our bike experts together have more than 100 years of experience behind them, so you can count on the best possible advice and help. 
Turin in Chicago [60614], at 1932 North Clark St.-[312] 944-3800. T~r,i~ tn, ~v~':'s.t~l"! !~Ot\l1J..at 10~7 Davi~ ~tr!Je~;-:-J~141. U~ .4:7.660. 
Wake ticket sale to beheld 
A second batch of Irish Wake NO or an SMC 1.0. at the time of the Wake, Gasior said, "We are ex­
tickets will go on sale Wednesday, purchase and there will be a limit pleased that the student's 
of one ticket per person. pectations are running high for the 
April 3 and Thursday , April 4 between 5: 00 and 6: 30 pm in the Wally Gasior, An Tostal Coor­Wake and we are working hard to 
dinator, announced that Kevin make it a success." Gasior thenNorth, South and SMC dining halls. 
O'Neill's oldies will be the second added, "We hope ~11 of the students The price for the function is set at 
$4. !let during the breaks between the will enjoy themselves." rock sounds of Windjammer. If the Wake's 450 tickets are sold
Wake officials announced that there will be a "special" for off· Gasior also apologized for the out on Wednesday, there will be no 
campus students only. On Wed­limited amount of tickets for the ssales on Thursday. Gasior also nesday, April 3 between ll: 30 am Wake and explained saying, "This emphasized that there will be no and 1:00 pm there will be a limited is the only way we could g'i:t the ticket sales at the door and only 
Wake approved." male-female couples will beamount of tickets available for off­
campus students. Commenting on the success of allowed to enter. Each student must present an 
Don Nixon to 

testify in case 
NEW YORK <UPI) -Presi­dent Nixon's brother F. Donald Nixon Sr. will testify in the Mitchell-Stans trial this week­the first time a member of the Nixon family has appeared under oath in connection with any of the allegations against Nixon administration officials. 
Donald Nixon was called as a prosecution witness and will appear before the government rests its conspiracy case against former cabinet mem­bers John N. Mitchell and Maurice H. Stans this week. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. Subscription~ may be purchased for S8 per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame Indiana, 46556. Second clas~ postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
;...{{:·:.. 

There's no easy way for Charlie Nelson to become Dr. Nelson. 
But there is a way to make it somewhat easier. Antonio. Or the National Naval Medical Center in Our way. The Armed Forces Health Professions Bethesda. Maryland, recognized worldwide tor its Scholarship Program. It won't soften the demands work in Medical Research. of your professors, or those you make upon yourself And if you've read this far, you may be interested -but it may free you from those financial problems in the detai Is. Just send in the coupon and we'll which, understandably, can put a crimp in your supply them. concentration. 
If you qualify, our scholarship program will cover 
,-----------------------,
a~~~ Forces Scholarships Z..CN-44 
the costs of your medical education. More, you'll 
Universal City, Texas 78148 
receive a good monthly allowance all through your 
I desire in!ormation for the following pro!Jram: Army 0schooling. Navy ,D A•r Force p Medical/ OsteopathiC 0 Dental 0 
But what happens after you graduate? Velermary"" 0 Pod1atry 0 Other (please specify) Then, as a health care officer in the military branch of your choice you enter a professional Name____---,(""pl"'ea:-;::seO:po:;rl:::'int")---­environment that is challenging, stimulating and Soc.Sec./1____________ satisfying. 
Address _____________
An environment which keeps you in contact with practically all medical specialties. Which gives you 
City·-------------­
the t1me to observe and learn before you decide on 
State________Zip____
your specialty. Which may present the opportunity 
to tram 1n that spec1alty. And to practice it. 
Enrolled at______(""sc'""hOO"""'I)_____
You may also find some of the most advanced medical achievements happening right where you 
To graduate i"-.<:=m:::on""th"l----,(y""e=ar,...)---;-:(d;-:-eg=re'"'e.,--)­
work. Like at the Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio, Texas, long noted for its Burn Treat­Date of birth---,(m=:o:::no.:th"l----,(d:o:a::>y)--(;::ye::-::a""'r)~ ment Center. Or the home of Flight Medicine the 
*Veterinary not available in Navy Program. 
famed Aerospace Medical Division, also in 'San 
-----------------------~ 
ARMED FORCES HEALTH CARE 
DEDICATED TO MEDICINE AND THE PEOPLE WHO PRACTICE IT 
·. ·. ·.... \. ··.......... \\. ";". "".·' ..\ ...\ .·';' ...\ ..........-..... · :\ .. 

Tuesday, April 2, 1974 the observer 
Lally predicts crackdown against streakers 
by Pat Flynn Staff Reporter 
"If the streaking craze continues much longer on campus, students will force myself and other ad­ministrators to take action.", ventured Father Terrence Lally this week in an interview with the 
Observer. 
Lally continued, "The students 
must see that some persons and 
communities take this type of thing 
quite seriously. Already we have 
had complaints from other 
students, who consider this type of 
behavior boorish and infantile, and 
who are offended by it. We have 
also had complaints from other 
persons connected with the 
University who are also offended 
by it." 
"Before semester break, one 
streaker apparently winded by his 
streak walked by a group visiting 
the university. The group was 
very badly offended by the ac­
tion," added Lally. 
Lally pointed out that Indiana law public indecency code lc35-l­83-3, includes indecent exposure in a public place or in any place where there are other persons offended or annoyed thereby. The Guidelines on University Life <Notre Dame regulations) states that any serious disturbance of the University community infringing on the rights and well being of others is strictly prohibited. "To 


New bard 
film class 

organized 
As a spin off of the successful 
Shakespeare film series last 
semester, English Prof. Paul A. 
Rathburn asked for and received 
permission to teach a special 
Shakespeare film course during 
the summer session. 
"The course is focused on the 
special problems faced by modern 
film-makers in adapting 
Shakespeare to the screen," said 
Rathburn. "The class will meet 
three times each week during the 
summer seession: once to discuss 
the play itself, once to view the 
film adaptation of the play, and 
finally to discuss the 'play-film"as 
new art form, and unique teaching 
aid." 
In correlation with the course, 
the English department will 
present a Summer Shakespeare 
Film Series. 
Rathburn has scheduled the 
following six films: Franco Zef­
firelli's Taming of the Shrew on 
June 26, Zefirelli's Romeo and 
Juliet on July 3, Tony Richardson's 
Hamlet on July 10, Laurence 
Olivier's Henry V on July 17, 
Roman Polanski's Macbeth on 
July 24 and Peter Brook's King 
Lear on July 31. 
All films will be presented at 7:00 and 10:00 pm in the Engineering Auditorium except King Lear which will be shown in Washington Hall. Rathburn hopes that faculty members and students in the South Bend area will take advantage of the free Summer Shakespeare Film Series. 
In addition to the film series, 
members of Rathburn's class have 
access to video-tapes of four other 
films. These are Joseph Papps 
controversial Much Ado About 
Nothing, James Earl Jones' King 
Lear, Lawrence Olivier's Mer­
chant of Venice, and John 
Barrymore's unsuccessful screen 
test for Hamlet. 
Rathburn's three credit course 
will meet on Tuesday and Thur­
sday from 1:00 to 2:30 pm in ad­
dition to the evening viewings 
s~ssion. 
leave streaking go on as if un­would blow . away as quickly as it noticed is to ask us (Student Af­begun. But now it seems to have fairs) to ignore both of these become more extensive," Lally laws." he argued. reflected. 
Lally also indicated that other "I think that as this phenomen& 
·institutions have reacted very of streaking continues, and strictly against streaking. At becomes more widespread at Yale, they have placed on colleges all over, we are forced as probation all streakkers caught or a community to take a look at it," identified. In Ireland, they have he continued from a more ethical dealt very toughly with streakers • standpoint. "Is it just a fun event placing them in jail. or is it a kind of 'monkey see 
"From the beginning all of us in monkey do' thing in which social this office have been un­pressure is exerted on certain comfortable about the whole thing. students to continue this type of 
We hoped that it would just be a behavior?" temporary college prank and Lally concluded the interview or 
Flanigan to succeed Fern as art. chairman 
a lighter note: "If the students If it does continue until then, 
want to continue this type of hope the guys move some weights 
'monkey see monkey do' behavior and the girls move some of the 
into September, I hope they have , weight around, because from what 
bods~oodenou tostandthetest._ .Xve seen so far they don't." 
-


The Playhouse
• . ' 
525 N. Hill · Q 
Live Entertainment Wed. thru Sat. ~ 
Tues. ~ite_-Keg. Nile -Drafts 20' 
·This Wed. & Thurs: ·''Jo Jo & the Outcasts" 
by Andy Swanfeldt Flanigan will inherit with his new position is that the department is 
University of Notre Dame
scattered among four separateRev. James T. Burtchaell, buildings.
Provost of the University, has "We hope to acquire the old field announced' that beginning Sep­

Glee Club
house," said Fr. Flanigan. "Thistember 1, Rev. James F. Flanigan, way we can have our facilities inassociate professor of art, will one location and then we 
in concert
serve as chairman of the art 
department. Father Flanigan will succeed Dr. Thomas S. Fern, who joined the art faculty as chairman in 1967. 
Father Flanigan received his baccalaureate and master's degrees from Notre Dame and his 
M.F.A. from George Washington University in Washington, D.C., in 1965. He also did advanced work at Corcoran School of Art in Washington. 

"This position should give me mol"e direct contact with the students," said Fr. Flanigan. 

Wednesday,
"Though I have had contact through my figure drawing classes and as assistant rector of Alumni Hall, the position of Associate Vice 
_ 
April3, 1974
President of Student Affairs does :Fr. James Flanigan-, the new art not allow one to be in close contact 1department chairman. (~tloto bywith the students." Chris Smith) · 
Fr. Flanigan has become can evaluate our processes from familiar with the Notre Dame Art there. At this time our physical Department, having taught a problem is our largest problem." figure drawing course for the last , Fr. Flanigan has been serving as eight years which he will contine to ' associate vice president of student do this fall. The new chairman / affairs since 1972, but he will plans to speak privately with all , relinquish these duties when he the faculty of the department and : assumes his chairmanship. see what they have to offer in the "To his work in Student Affairs," way of improvement. However, he commented Dr. Phillip J. Fac­does not foresee any major cenda, Vice president for student 'Changes in the department. affairs, "Fr. Flanigan brought not 
"Things are going well at the only his own experience in the moment and I hope to see them residence halls but also the respect continue," noted Fr. Flanigan. of his fellow rectors, enabling him The major problem that Fr. to make a distinctive contribution. 
I 
~ 

____,_,-..r,..&t...._""-."'· Y·•:» ......_~ ,._..,....· ..... ~ ···~.,>ll(lt.SI 
Washington Hall 
Admission: Free Time: 8:15 pm 
Early seating advised 
'learafter year, semester Iaftcrsemcstcr, the . CollegeMaster··from Fidelity Union Life has been tile most accepted, 
most popular plan on campu~ all overAmerica. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity Union CollegeMaster" .Field Associate myour area: 
1005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend, h1d. Phone 287~2327 
~--­




THE OBSERVER 
The I mages of
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 NEWS: 283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief 


Notre Dame
AnnMcCarry Marlene Zloza Editorial Editor Managing Editor 

Lee Gentine Terry Keeney John Kloos Business Manager News Editor Advertising Manager 
Tuesday, April 2, 1974 

Where do you go to school? Notre Dame. Oh yeah? Great place to be from! 
Ain't it the truth ... with Number One and Knute Rockne and Golden 

Bank Your Blood 
Dome and religion and the whtJe star studded thing! But in ap­
Success7ful blood drives have recently become a custom on the Notre Dame campus. This semester's version will premiere tomorrow and run through Friday. The students, faculty, and ad­ministration members who donate an hour or so of their time and a pint of their blood are the stars of the show. It's a benefit performance for all donors and volunteers, and the benefits are for all of us. 
This semester the three day drive has three different acts. On Wednesday, donors will have the chance to help two Chicago children who suffer from hemophilia. In addition, donors will receive Red Cross blood benefits for six months. 

C]JQQ_11esburr_ 


~--------------~
'JLA--' 

vv v<--c 
~ ~ ~(_c /MfO/lf I Tet/... 
THAT'S


@@@c
19 t3J I!Y YOV-SfJ!iAN, I 

, r-YOfl SAY RI6HT! HE i SO WHO I H&4/l.P JOHN 
, fl ,., "' JIJ5T 601TA S4Y, 

. JOHN WAYNE /)(J(J&E­
HAO A RfiN·IN PARKEIJ NOMIN&~ Rtllf/N IIIlTH TWt 
• ARG THG WAYNE HAO A 

1Vt1H THG t.AW HIS HORSE ~ 6UN? LAW 
10N16J./7:? I OV151PG! 
Ll-f 


vv vc. 
@@@f 
,......., ~-50 IUHO :J 6/VE /JFf ARG THG PIHO? HA! 
NOMINGs_ 
HAl HAl
GlEN? 
HAl
' 

On Thursday, the Fort Wayne Red Cross chapter will collect blood for Red Cross supplies and donors will receive blood benefits for one year. And on Friday, as on the other days, donors will be driven to the South Bend hospital blood bank, where they can contribute to the Notre Dame Fund, which provides blood for any member of the ND community who needs it. 
So the script is finished, and although the plot is familiar, it is still an excellent production. This blood drive deserves the strong support of the ND-SMC com­munity. Once again, let's make sure the reviews are favorable. 
Marlene Zloza 

UIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.II.IIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Night Editor: Tim O'Relley Assistant Night Editor: Tom O'Neil Layout: William Murphy, Camarry, JR Sports: John Fineran, Greg Corgan, Peggy Lawlor Copy Editors: Gary Allletta, Ken Bradford Day Editors: Jim Rosin!, Ken Girouard Typists: Barb Norcross, Camille Arrleh, Tom Modglin, Jeff McPherson Pictures: Albert D'Antonio Compugraphic: Gary "Fumbles" Allletta Night Controller: John Flannigan .II... II111111IIIMIIIIII'IIIUIII"111111I111IIfllllllllmlll"ll 
in memoriam-(a poem to certain friends at 2:30 a.m.) 
how i would say to you damn fools ye be. how can i though? you give me cigarettes and jokings and songs to carry me through the sucking of the world­the sucking called gravity. someday may the rains fall gently on you 
or your grave and the winds carry you to other places. 
proaching this glorious monster one is urged to caution ... the distinc­tive public image of Notre Dame generates a real problem. Image is something that makes its object accessible to the lusty public and in our case it does a great job (the subway alumni). Yet behind that image lies something else, call it the reality, the truth or whatever, that students must deal with. And therein lies the problem. The Notre Dame image is a compelling part of the equation here an added dimension that I believe results in the peculiar Notre Da'me discon­tent. 
I mention this in light of the recent Wall Street Journal article, which many here dismissed as another failed attempt to capture the "real" Notre Dame. Part of the burden of our infamous tradition, Knute, the Gipper, the Church and all that, is the public's interest in the "real" Notre Dame. The Wall Street Journal made its modest contribution. I went over the article carefully and though it was necessarily limited I didn't see anything inaccurate about it. In fact I think it was very accurate within its terms, which of course weren't exhaustive. Why then did some conclude that it was "amazingly in­sensitive to the conditions I havve felt during four years as a student." as one bearded senior did? I think it has to do with a special problem the Notre Dame student has in dealing with the Notre Dame image, what we might grandly call "The Image Gap." 
More than most pniversities Notre Dame calls a special picture to the public mind centered around three things (in this order) ­athletics, the Catholic Church, and academic excellence. How do these specific images directly affect the Notre Dame students? LESS THAN ONE WOULD THINK. The athletic teams create a nice diversion, but do they really affect Notre Dame life? Not in any deep sense. The more they do, the less it says for the quality of Notre Dame life. How fulfilling is the role of spectator? It's as if the quality of Chicago's professional athletic teams gives any indication of what it's like to live there. Similarly, Notre Dame's Catholicity exerts no real influence over the way life is lived here. Besides the Catholic background of most students and the rectors in each hall, what does it mean that Notre Dame is Catholic? Fr. Hesburgh in The Wall Street 
Journal article said, " A Catholic university emphasizes moral 
leadership, committment to justice, integrity and honor. If ever we 
nededed education that was sensitive to higher values, it's today." If 
that's what a Catholic university emphasizes, I fail to see its distinc­
tion from other universities. The Notre Dame that most of its students 
experience is as secular as any non-denominational university, so that 
another uniqueness lodged in the public image of Notre Dame is lost on 
the student. There's a priest back home who says we should get rid of 
the Catholic schools because they're not producing any Catholics. 
Finally, Notre Dame's academic excellence is fact as well as image, 
yet this fails to set it off from many other schools. 
So the student comes to this school called Notre Dame, with its glamorous public image, and he finds its not so special after all because the Notre Dame image is not based in student experience, in the life that is lived here. Then an article appears like the one in The Wall Street Journal that deals with Notre Dame within the boundaries of its image and students justifiably feel that something is left out. They are feeling the effects of the "Image Gap" -the distance between Notre Dame as seen and Notre Dame as lived. The tragedy is that practically everybody who comes here falls prey to the glorious image, which results in the natural demand to deliver the goods. "Here I am Golden Dome Lay it on me!" So we come here and expect Notre Dame to provide its glory and thus we sit back and wait and wait and wait. 
There is an amazing undercurrent of sadness and loneliness here, but people stay on resigned to waiting for what Notre Dame will give them later in tersm of a career. It is after all a great place to be from. Which is not to say that that's bad -that Notre Dame prepares its students well for significant careers is a nice thing, but it's not the only thing. While we sit back in the confusion of the image gap we sacrifice so much of tte present, the burnt ashes of Notre Dame lonelines and discontent. 
It can change. If the students who live here and know what it's really like get the message out to future Domers that Notre Dame doesn't give you anything, that you have to make it good for yourself, then it will begin to change. That special image the public harbors will leave you colder than the South Bend winters Anything you get will take effort. There's a tremendous opportunity to make this place Golden yet, but it hasn't been tried. Tell them that. 
Then maybe "The Image Gap" won't hav such a devastating effect. Then maybe Notre Dame won't be flooded by the misguided, the ·image seduced, the ones with great expectations, who later drown themselves in books, beer, loneliness or the fortunes of the athletic teams when the discover "The Image Gap." Then maybe Notre Dame students will begin to invest some of their own creative energy to redeem the present, to make Notre Dame not only a great place to be from, but a great place to be. As Joni Mitchell writes: "Things that you held high And told yourself were true-Lost or changing as the days come down to you-Itall comes down to you}' 
Tuesday, April 2, 1974 the observer 

the exuberant universe of elizabeth sewell· 

If you have been attending the Sewell seminar or have gone to any of her lectures you know the warm, humorous personality of Elizabeth Sewell. Her exuberance for and delight in literature deeply charac­terizes her lectures. 
Elizabeth Sewell explored "Magic as Poetic Mode" throughout her seminar. She commented, "The central powers are not the powers of logic but the powers of your imagination." Sewell believes people must free themselves from their own Twentieth century universe and start constructing another universe ... The Universe. She believes that with the imagination one can become more fully aware of his relation to and position in the universe. 
Elizabeth Sewell investigates the nature of the cosmos in her own poetry. She is like a scientist. Both the poet and the scientist make their discoveries through leaps and bounds. Sewell states, "The life of thinking isn't separate from the life of action." 
Sewell's poems take a look at the universe within and the universe without. They strive to see more of the whole of the universe. Her poem, "The Transformations of Love," shows us the unity of man and the universe and the harmony of that union. 
· "Till at your kiss only the cosmos hung 
And every atom moved out of his place 
Making such consort 
That the elements cry out in new align­
ment 
Resolved up vertical chords 
Rapt modulations 
by leanne jacques 
Radiance 
A dulcet thunder Light from beneath the sea We hec:ir it not, beloved: we are that 
music" 
In "Cosmos and Kingdom" we again find the relation of man and the universe and men's attempt to understand that relation. 
"Put it this way: there are men on a venture. After? one could say they are after cosmos and kingdom. Where? where el~e but the living rock­vaults of mind and body?" 
Elizabeth Sewell wa·s born in India, moved to England where she received her B.A., M.A., and Ph.D. degrees from Cambridge University, then moved to America in 1949. Since then she has spent a great deal of time commuting back and forth from here to England. She says, "When I was living in England I would miss America deeply but when I was in America I didn't become homesick for England. I'm really so English -I just carry it around with me." She became an American citizen this year. 
Elizabeth Sewell has published four critical works, three novels and two books of poetry. She is currently working on a third volume of poems to be published and plans to try her hand at plays. As far as more novels go, Sewell says, "I don't want to work on any more. I find my own life exciting enough." 


a conversation about sex and rules 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the 
second in a series of three con­
versations among members of the 
Campus Ministry staff. The 
subject was sexuality at Notre 
Dame and an edited portion of the 
tape-recorded session follows. 
Taking part in the discussion 
were: Fr. William Toohey, Robert 
Griffin, Thomas McNally, and 
Thomas Stella; Br. Joseph 
McTaggart and Sr. Jane Pitz. 
Griffin: When you start talking about human sexuality and Notre Dame it always sounds like you're talking about the rules which the University has in this whole area. You find yourself defending the rules, or expected to do so. But that isn't the point. If there is some reason for the rules, then we should be able to answer for them not just from some sort of official point of view but because we are people who are concerned with the life of the students who are in our care. 
Toohey: Griff, that reminds me of something you said the other day. It was to the effect that standards of conduct in the area of human sexuality are not given by God arbitrarily because he simply wants to give us commands. 
Griffin: Yes, we have a nifty stereotype that God came along and just handed down the Ten Commandments on plates. I suspect that the Commandments represent what man had learned through human experience. So, for example, people who are questioning the area of human sexuality will ask, "Is this a sin?" or "Is that a sin?" as though it would be all right to do it if it is not a sin. But you know damn well that these things are self-destructive. 
McTaggart: Some people need an enemy. Then they can play the game of setting up a straw-man and avoid the real issues. In this case the straw-man can be the Dean of Students or the rules. 
Griffin: First of all, the best the University can do is to make rules that affect the external order of things. In the deep dark places where moral decisions are made, the University can make no rules. At the same time there is a need for us t{) go on record as saying that there are certain things we believe in and certain things we don't belive in--not because of arbitrary moral standards of the Church but from our own human experience. We know that these things lead to deep suffering. 
Take, for example, the 18 or 19 year old couple who sleep together. There is a consequence for the things they do. One consequence, of course, if that the girl may get pregnant. And this leads to other decisions-whether the girl should have the baby; whether the couple should marry even though they ar not ready for it. So she decides to have an abortion and, again, the thing is not ended with the surgeon's knife. People live to have nightmares for years after this kind of thing. 
Stella: If it's true, as you say, that the commandments of life didn't just drop out of the sky but arose from human experience, then I think each person must search his own depths to understand areas like sexuality. I know I've listened to people who were talked into sexual experiences and convinced, at least on a superficial level, that it was okay becaused they loved one another. Afterwards they were kind of shattered by the whole thing. They began to doubt themselves and the kind of persons they were. I really think there was a need on their part to listen more to themselves and to what their deepest selves were saying. I tend to think that if we clear out some of the debris and get down to listen to our deepest selves we'll discover there the codes by which we should be living. 
McTaggart: I'd like to think that the sexual problem is not as great as the con­textual problem-the context of friendship and relationship surrounding the sexual acts themselves. To me, the loneliness that exists between students : is the issue on campus. So that the conversation in the dorms can well center around premarital intercourse and escape the fundamental issue which is much more delicate to talk about-a man's relationship with his male friends on campus and with girls, .or a woman's relatimiship with other women and with men. 
Toohey: I think students want relationships to be genuine and honest, not phoney. On the other hand, they don't want this because it hurts to be real to another persoh, to open up. I think that this is really the only principle that appeals to students­that what I'm doing from the most casual kind of contact to the deepest contact be consistent with the reality of my relation­ship with the other person. 
McTaggart: Yes, that's the issue. What you're talking about is the main thing that is going to exist when one leaves here, regardless of what oppressive or unop­pressive situation exits at the University. 
McNally: I react to the use of the word oppressive though I realize you were not saying that the rules in this area are necessarily oppressive. I guess I agree with what all of you have been saying. On the other hand, I don't think there is anything wrong with setting limits. And these limits need not be oppressive though the students may consider them such. Recently I saw a statement on human sexuality which was good in some ways but yet seemed so blurred that any kind of norms just went out the window. Anyone could justify prac­tically anything. 
Pitz: This sounds like we're setting up a theory, or philosophy or theology and then questioning ourselves whether this is enough for students or whether we have set up limits at the same time so that we're "covered" if they don't agree with our theory or philosophy or theology. That's what is happening right now. We're saying that it's a matter of considering 
how you relate to other people and how God fits into your life. And then we say, "All right, fine but that leaves such a wide field that it doesn't really say anything. So we set up norms." Which are important, and have 
·their place when as Griff said, we need them to affect the external order of things. 
Griffin: Insofar as this thing can be regulated by rules, it is only the externals that can be regulated. Hopefully, there is a moral clima~ that can be set up .\in the 
·dormitory. So if you have a sexual athlete 
and he's acting contrary to that moral 
climate, you can say to him: "I'd just as 
soon not have you living here if this is the 
way you choose to live. People who are 
living here are trying to grow up without 
getting themselves involved in destructive 
things. So it might be better if you went to a 
place where you would not be a concern to 
others around you because of the moral 
choices you're making." 
Toohey: I agree that we don't have to 
apologize for norms. But we have to talk 
about them in such a way that everone can 
appreciate the tremendous range of· 
variation. On one end of the spectrum in 
anonymous sex where the girl becomes a 
sex object. In this case sex is simply a form 
of recreation, 
cheaper than bowling if you get someone 
who is willing. On the other end of the 
spectrum is a couple whose relaoonship is 
growing, who may be quite close to 
marriage. By sleeping together they're 
saying "We're two in one flesh, we're 
united, we're one." But they're not and so 
what they are doing is not consistent with 
the reality of their relationship. But its's 
still much less culpable, theologically 
speaking, from the pick-up kind of thing 
where the relationship is non-existent. 
Stella: I heard a husband and father of seven children say once that he didn't know a lot about sex. I think I can say it's true for me, too. But one thing I do know is that what the Church has been communicating is that sex is a "dirty thing" outside of marriage. And that's where we have to be careful. Along with the rules we have at the University we have to communicate that they are being put there not because sex is a bad thing but because it is so beautiful that it can easily be abused. 
At 8:00 p.m., Wednesday, April 3, in the 
Library Auditorium, Campus Ministry will 
sponsor a talk on the topic of Sexuality. The 
speaker will be Fr. Edward (Monk) Malloy, 
C.S.C., whose special area of study has been 
ethics, including sexual morality. His talk 
and the question period following will :cary on the discussion printed here. 
JJ) !::JJI.IV...r •·•. 


the observer Tuesday, April 2, 1974 
'II 
Sponsored by InPirg 
Students eligible for Food Stamp Program 
may be considered a gain or payment. Thus the montly busy. A recent AM General strike said "You shake!"
by Dan Baker . benefit. Expenses include rent, payment can prevent waiting in aggravated the already crowded Many students at Notre Dame 

The Food Stamp Program · utilities, tuition, and medical bills. line again at the Food Stamp of-conditions in the office. are eligible for Food Stamps. It is enables low-income households to 1 The monthly coupon allotment fice. After the first month of Caseworkers have been physically merely up to them to learn the buy more food of greater variety to · and purchase requirement varies, getting stamps, a notarized threatened as well. One time, qualifications, get the required improve diets. Participants pay a · but a household of one would get up statement of financial contribution Rider recalled a man came into the papers together, and register small amount of money, an to $42 worth of food stamps. is required from the parents of office with a gun. Then asked what downtown to enjoy the benefits of amount based on household size The student must follow the students receiving stamps. o "n. a. <!itn.. tinn like that, he the food staJilp program.
There is no set amount of stamps -.-.:~~t--.~...,.o.;,;;,;~~.:::.:::.:;:.~....;;;::;...:.;;,:.:.,::=:,:.:!:,.:::.;;::,:::;._
and net monthly income, and same procedure as any other Food receive a larger value of food Stamp applicant. He should allotted for any particular com­stamps, which can be spent like . contact the local office in the munity; thus a student getting money at grocery stores. Even City-Country Building in South stamps would not be denying the 

THE OBSERVER
students can quality for this Bend to complete an application poorer people of South Bend from federal aid program. form and be interviewed. He acquiring the food subsidy To be eligible, a household, should have all the necessary benefits. 
Do the people who need food , 
NOW HIRING FOR THE POSITION
stamps know about the program? 
Actually there is no way of finding 
out. Caseworkers investigate the 
stamp recipients, but there is no
Observer lnsi,.ht agency to inform people about the 
consisting of persons living as one economic unit, must cook their own food at home and meet certain national standards for income and resources. These resources in­clude such liquid assets as cash on hand, in bank or other savings instftution accounts, U.S. Savings Bonds ,-stocks and bonds, and such nonliquid assets as buildings, land, and certain real or personal property. 
Each hom:~hold is allowed up to $1,500 in resources. The following resources are not considered for eligibility: home, car, life in­surance policies, and income producing real estate. Usually household members must either be working or seeking employment, but this requirement is waived for students. 
If a household meets these eligibility qualifications, the Food Stamp Agency, must determine the monthly allotment of food stamps. The general formula is income minus expenses. 
Income is any money received by all members of a household, including wages, support payments, scholarships, educational grants, fellowships, dividends,. interest, and all other payments from any source which 
Mini-course announced 
The second sequence of the mini­course program has been an­nounced for tonight. Entitled "Auto-Mechanics," the five-part 1 course will cover all aspects of! care and maintenance of an automobile. 
Sponsored by the Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council, the mini-course concept was originated last year. At that time it was felt that students desired more flexibility nand opportunity in acquiring practical knowledge. Thus the non-credit mini-course was formed. 
Guy Randles, President of the Student Advisory Council stated that "last year's response to the Auto-Mechanics course was good and I expect the same amount of support t?is year." 
STUDENT-FACULTY PLAN 
S150PER DAY@ 
CAR IN EUROPE 
• 
Summer new-car lease plan 

• 
Purchase-special savings 


• Hostels-camping-discount club For Free Folder write: CTE­
555 Fifth Ave.,N.Y.10017/697-5800 Name _________ 
Address________ _____Tel. ____ 
Departing on ___for_days 
0 Student 0 Teacher 0 Lease 0 Buy 
.f 1·.·1·.:"',\ ..... 1!1: .. ' ·.".' .• .. • .. 
t • .... • • , • • • • • • " 111 111 lll 111 t Ill 8 1!1 It I 5 'l 
program. 
Caseworker Randy Rider 
elaborated, "The people involved papers showing where he lives, in the system, the welfare how many are in the household; 1 recipients, they are pretty much how much income they have; and aware of it; in fact, they know how much they are paying in ex-about as much as we do as to what penses. Important papers include they can and can't do I imagine all bank statements, school bills, there are a lot of borderline people and lease contracts. The student that would be eligible and do not ID card is necessary to prove that know about it." the student has no meal validation The job as caseworker is not with the university dining hall. easy. Rider has been working at 
Food Stamps are received his job since last summer. South through the mail on a monthly 1 Bend has one of the worst unem­basis, provided the applicant ployment rates in the country, and maintains his requirement 1 so the Food Stamp office is always 
SPRING FLING ARMORY PARTY SATURDAY APRIL 6th 
Tickets now on sale at Student Union Ticket 
Office and at the dining halls. 

Jim 
'63 
Chuck 
'65 

1723 S. Bend Avenue 272-9800 
TONIGHT AT 9:00 AT THE A.C.C. THE INTERHALL HOCKEY ALL STAR I GAME NORTH QUAD vs SOUTH QUAD FREE ADMISSION! BEER SPECIAL: CASE LESS THAN $4.00 
ALSO SPECIAL ON PABST 12 PACKS 
EAST ON EDISON-LEFT AT LINEBACKER 200yds. on left 
10 percent DISCOUNT ON CALL A DAY AHEAD CASES OF LIQUOR AND WINE TO ORDER KEGS 






SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION 
POSITIONS OPEN FOR 197 4-75 
ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS THIS WEEK FOR: SOCIAL COMMISSIONER 
MOVIE CO-ORDINATOR SPECIAL EVENTS CO-ORDINATOR 4 HALL EVENTS CO-ORDINATORS 
FOR INTERVIEW CALL: .4430, 48~4, 530i 
'!I.''''' ' 

~. ,1_~, '·l. ;,,;,,_~"'\ll.lll,,,',,~.,','//;',',',f, 
1 " ll ll & t1 .. • " .. " • ,. t "' w a a 1o ' ., • • ,. ,. .... • • 0 • ~. '· "'• •. ~ # "' I 'ti ; 1 J,'·, 11~ '•, '·,I' • I"" I"~-,'·,' :,I . f _ 
11 11 

OF BUSINESS MANAGER 
* APPLICANTS MUST BE ACCOUNTANCY MAJORS * 
send resume to editor, box q, notre dame, before· april 3. 
THI 
Spain's Most Exciting Dancers, Singers & Instrumentalists IN PERSON -ON STAGE 
SATURDAY APRIL 13 -8:30 
MORRIS CIVIC. 

AUDITORIUM 
SO. BEND, IND. 

TICKETS ON SALE 
at Box-Office 11 to 5 
All Seats Reserved 
56.00 55.00 54.00 STUDENTS Vz PRICE 
... 
Tuesday, April 2, 1974 
7
the observer 

Prof. Bellis to lecture on archeological finds 
(specifically the Rouch Site) and to students. This year the cost will be able, at this site alone, to get a total today look at one spot of a modern by Judy Peterson register for this year's six week approximately . $500.00 per picture of pre-historic man's at-community and re-construct a Staff Reporter session. . student, unless Bellis can find titudes anymore than you could . total picture of its ~ife-style." 

The course is offered for six other sources to fund the project.The series entitled "The credit hours and instructs students University of Notre Dame Ar­in the following areas: excatation The Rouch Site, which was 
cheological Field School Ex­techniques, field record and note­primarily utilized by pre-historic 1 
cavations in Marshall County, taking, washing, cataloguing and man as a workshop· area for {ndiana," will be presented by basic sorting and analysis of ar­manufacturing tools and Professor James Bellis of the tifacts recovered, the use of survey weapons, was chosen because it Department of Sociology and and mapping instruments, and provides excellent insight into the Anthropology, Wednesday, 8:00 photographic techniques in the lives and habits of pre-historic 
pm in rm 110, O'Shaughnessy. The field, laboratory, and in the man. Bellis described the site as a slide-lecture presentation will give darkroom. "culture contact zone because in students an oportunity to view the In 1973 the course was funded by any given area you can see results of two years of field ex­the Lilly Endowment of Indiana, materials which indicate that the cavation in Northern Indiana providing scholarship for area was used continually from 5,000 years ago up to the time of European contact with the Indian cultures." 
Bellis stressed the fact that the dig is purely a study of pre-historic man, not a money-making scheme. 
He said, "ifyou define archeology as the study of pre-historic behavior and not as a search for goodies, then it is apparent . that here we have been able to re­construct a great deal of the ac­tivities of the pre-historic people's who inhabited the region." 
Bellis wants to continue the project in future years, expanding to other points in the vicinity of the Rouch Site, in hopes of gaining an overall view of pre-historic man in Northern Indiana and Michigan. 
He concluded, "We haven't been 

by Bob Quankenbush Friday, April 5, Meconi insists he hook-up for the title game," he Staff Reporter is planning far ahead for the finals declared, "but things are up in the April 19. air right now."
Only two days remain in which to "I've been dickering with Dick Last year, WSND carried ex­register for the upcoming Enberg and Hot Rod Hundley of clusive radio coverage of theBookstore Basketball Tour­TVS about a possible regional TV Pvent.
nament. Thus far, 88 teams have "accepted tourney bids" but Voince Meconi, tournament coordinator, says "By midnight 


Sign-up. books stolen from 
Tuesday we should have well over 100 quintets entered and raring to go after the championship." 

SMC in protest. of policy
All four of last year's semi­finalists (Cardiac Five, 
effect that they were "tired of St. Marksmen, Badin Exiles, and the Mary's students being treated as 
According to the student on desk 
duty, who asked to remain
defending champions, the 31 Club) automatons." The bag contained
anonymous, the three approached
plan to take to the courts again this the book Do It by Jerry Rubin.
the main desk at about 9:15, asked 
year, according to Meconi. to use the telehpone, and were Security was not contacted until "Both City Bounds and the about a half hour later. The other 
directed to the public phone in the 
Marksmen are entered for the lobby. The girl then return to halls were warned to keep an eye 
third year in a row-and that's as watching television until she heard on their sign-out books and remove 
long as the tournement has been them to inside the offices.
the sound of "books slamming"
around," reports Meconi. "But the 
and looked up in time to see the · thing to note," he continued, "is three take off in a car and the sign­Holy Cross Hall Director Mary 
that in both of the past two years out books missing. Fran Burt declined to comment on 
these two teams were defeated "I didn't see them take the books 
the theft "until I can piece some only by the eventual champions." because I ~ad my back turned to more facts together." She was in To register, call Meconi at 3476 the counter. Then I heard the noise her room adjoining the office when 
before midnight Tuesday. and chased them to the door, but the incident occured. 
Meconi reminds entrants that . they got away in a car. They left a Security likewise refused to representatives of each team must bag with a note on it saying 'This is release any information. pick up schedules and rules sheets not an April Fool's joke' and that it The identity of the students is not 
at his room, 144 Morrissey, on was a protest of the St. Mary's known but it is believed they were 
Wednesday and Thursday after 6 policy." Notre Dame students. · 
p.m. The note identified the trio as th "No schedules will be give out members of the "Order of the Orr" 
over the phone," he emphasized. and warned that it would not be the Although the this last of such incidents. It stated in 
CALL 288·8488 
······FOR TIMES ·AND DIRECT NS 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES FOR SALE

Tired of same old bands at every party? Fresh rock 
PIONEER SSX82S and Pioneersounds now playing for 

SA-500 a amp ph.1487.

reasonable prices. Call Pat 3274 
seniors! Great buys on

Political sci and History sale at graduation stereos,all brands.
Pandora's Books. March 31 to Great prices! Golden DomeApril 6. 50 per cnt off used records 804 Flanner ph. 1487bolks. Special 5 cent box. 
1971'h Totato Celica ST, 4­Every Friday the Greyhound speed tachometer, vinyl top,goes from the Circle to Chicago steel belted radiaIs, excellentat 4;40p.m. Call Tom 272-1807 condition, to 30 mpg $1995, call 232-3841.

Tickets for this Saturday's Armory party are now on sale 
Top of the line Sonys quadat the Student Union Ticket 

receiver JUC disc

office, 2nd floor Lafortune, demodulator, 4 speakers, playsfrom 1-5 daily. Tickets are discrete, regular Matrix and$2.50 in advance. 
SQ. Must sell! $550 or best offer. Call Ed 1506PERSONALS MME Sosostris 

... 
(occhi verdi): The Daze alone Fender strat '61 Sunburst. $200shall tell. Stetson Craig R-R tape deck and 15 Scotoch tapes $75 2884297Happy Birthday Dad! No fooling. GBR 
Larry, Thank you for your FOOL card. Let's get together WANTED 
and fool around somemore. you silly savage! Molly Need 2 housemated 74; located block from Linebacker. Havd 
Phyllis Q. you said you wanted to know Apr.1 Tom 233-2712 or a Personal -Well, here it is. A 
Steve 233-6706. 

Creep. Ride needed to Texas Apr. 5.$$ LOST Call Gilbert 1217. 
Lost: Seiko watch last week. Versitile cartoonist to work on Call 8639 Point Counterpoint page. Call 
Observer any night. 7471 Brown hant;tbag at the Library saturday. Keep Money, but Wanted: 2 housemates for please return handbag and house on St. Pet.er. Call 1058 or other contents to Obxerver. · 6863 Thank you. Marla 
INT•N\ACY AND SEXUALITY TALK AND DISCUSSION WITH EDWARD MALLOY, CSC 
• 
WEDNESDAY -APRil 3 
i' 

liBRARY AUD. 8 PM 
sponsored by campus ministry secona of a three part series 
I 
,I 
j 
l 

Tuesday, April 2, 1974
the observer 

Rick Slager~doing doubl duty on courts, gridiron 
by John Fineran 

Rick Slager proved no different than other athletes at Notre Dame with decisions to make. It could have been he would have had to decide between teimis-where he currently ranks as the number-one Irish player--or football-where he is one of many talented quar­terbacks seeking to backup Reisman Trophy candidate Tom. Clements. However, there was never any doubt in Slager's mind where his decision would lead him. 
The sophomore from Columbus, Ohio has decided to play both sports, but only to the degree that tennis doesn't interfere with his football chores. As he says, "I came here to play football and that's what I really want to do. 
'Football is my first love." 
"As soon as football starts, I feel obligated to play,'' he says. "You can't miss spring practice,
... 
especially if you are a quar­terback. Perhaps if I played another position, I-could. 
But both coaches have been cooperative. I am sure I mess up Coach Fallon's plans, but he has really been understanding. Coach Parseghian said he would allow me to play tennis here. In fact, he gave me permission to go to Wisconsin with the tennis team th dirst weekend of spring practice last year, but I decided not to go. As it turned out, it rained here that first weekend." 
You would think that combining two sports at Notre Dame would be difficult. But Slager doesn't have any problems. Even his pre­med studies don't interfere, and Slager carries a 3.1 academically. 
"It isn't too hard to mix football and tennis," he continues. "If there is a match before football, I c(\n make it. 
Fellows named 
All-American 
by Joe Wilkowski 

, 
Freshman epeeist Ed Fellows became the first Irish fencing All­
I 
American since 1971 when he was named to the All-American team at the Nationals held this weekend in Cleveland. His fifth-place finish in the championships helped the I Irish finish 11th in the nation. I 
Fellows, a native of Oakland,
r N.J., ended up with a 16-7 record in the round-robin tournament, good enough for a tie for fourth place, but on the basis of total points he ended up fifth. He had a poor start on the first day, closing with a 7-5 record against the bottom half of his pool, but he put it all together Saturday against the better fencers in the nation with a· 9-2 effort. 
The other freshman on the Irish national championship team, saberman Sam Difiglio, also fared very well in the title event. His 13­10 record was.good enough for a 7th place tie, but on the basis of points he was dropped to lOth. 
The other Irish entry, Tom Coye in foil, had a bad round Thursday and did not make it to the final round. 
The team title was won by defending champion NYU, closely
• followed by Wayne State. On his team's performance, coach Mike DeCicco pointed out, "I was somewhat disappointed that we didn't finish higher than we did, but the kids really did a great job. Although inexperienced, they really took the pressure of tour-· nament competition like veterans. This should really make us strong next year." 
"However, once spring practice starts, I don't get to practice tennis a·s much. Tennis is a thinking game and one of timing. These things come only in practice. tjis year, I will be able to only practice on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays. 
"Of course, I miss a lot of away 
matches and ones that start after 
practice. But last season, my 
tennis season ended quickly when I 
separated my shoulder." 
And it indeed was an unfortunate injury. Slager appeared to be making great strides last spring in his battle for a backup spot, and he was finding himseH again on the tennis courts. April 14th was a normal day for the two-time Ohio singles champ; there was a tennis match in the morning against Cincinnati and football practice in the afternoon. In the Iatter case, Rick had just engineered the first scoring drive of the spring against the number-one defense, and was moving the team again, starting at the one and getting to midfield. But the bubble burst, as they say, with only 10 minutes remaining in the afternoon scrimmage. 
"I got hit and Kevin Nosbusch fell on me," he remembers. "It was six weeks before I began to throw again, and I didn't play tennis to the end of June. 
"I wasn't fatigued from the tennis matchearlierin the day,'' he continues "On the contrary, tennis helps to loosen my arm." 
Either way, football and tennis momentarily came to an end for Rick Slager. And when he returned last fall to start football practice, although it didn't hinder him, the shoulder certainly did have an effect on Slager's play. 
"T usually play in a couple of tournaments during·the summer" Rick says. "But last summer 'I decided to stay at school, and I ~m glad, for one thing, I did. It helped me in school. 
"However, I couldn't find anyone to play with here, and this hurt my tennis. I came back too heavy in the fall-close to 200 pounds--and I normally play around 180." 
Slager, therefore, saw most of his football action with the junior varsity, and although his statistics weren't quite as impressive as those during his freshman season, the Irish JV's did better than the previous year, finishing 4-1. 
This tennis season, so far, as oeen a surprising one for Rick. Only two weeks before the Irish spring excursion to California, he didn't know if he was going to make the trip. However, by the time the squad had left; Slager was not only travelling-he was the number-one player. 
So far this season, Slager is H, but the squad is 7-4. The number­one position is the toughest one for any player, but Rick was com­petitive, if not superb and a little bit unlucky in California. 
"The only match I lost badly in California was against Southern California," he reflects. "But the UCLA match the previous day really drained me." 
Against the Bruins' top man, Slager went to two tie-breaking sets before finally succumbing 6-4, 6-7,6-7. Slager had his problems in tie-breaking sets losing five in the six matches he lost, but he did finally win one, and as a·result, the match. 
Still, Slager wants his great moments in Notre Dame athletics to be in football, and he is thankful Notre Dame has given him a chance to try and achieve them. 
"I really didn't think about Notre Dame until December of my senior year,'' he says. "What impressed me about the school was the spirit. When the band marches around the quads on Fridays before home games, it really gets to you. 
"And I like it that way. To me, Notre Dame is the ideal school­first academically and then athletically." 
There was a lot of pressure on Slager to go to hometown Ohio State. Some of the pressure was directed at Slager's father, an Ohio State grad who, like his son combined a pre-med major with both tennis and football. However, Rick felt no pressure at all from his father when itcameto finally making a decision. 
"My father was recruited by Leahy," he continues, "and he always regretted not coming here. Even though he is an Ohio State graduate, I really think he was happy that I wanted to come here. 



IH all-star'tilt tonight 
The Interhall Hockey All-8tar Game will be played tonight in the 
A.C.C. at 9 p.m. The game will feature the top players of both the North and South Quads in action against each other. 
NORTH QUAD: Glenn Synder (coach); Tom Kwiecien; Greg Collins; Bill Lewis; Jim Bracken; Bob Ryan; Gerry Hayden; Bruce Petrovic; Jack McKeon; Jack Rafter; Bob Dressel; Dave Lon­dergan; John Lonsberg; Pete Flach; Pete Kernan; Leo Schad; Pete Roberts; Joe Vandenburg; Paul Slaggert; Kevin Ford; Jim Flynn; Greg Szatko. 
SOUTH QUAD: Willie Hay (coac~); Gary Gallagher; Leo Cushmg; Larry Cima · Bob Richards; Cliff Maison; 'Frank Szymanski;. Steve Hornig; Art Moher; Bill Donovan; Brian Sweeney; Kim McLain; Lou Keppler; Rich Littlefield· Steve Kahir; Larry Makovich; jacques Lefevre; John Carrico; John Pyke; Ken Kaulbach; Pat Dillon· Gord Wilson ' 
Admission is free and the public is invited. 

220 W. Marion -Elkhart Serving Michiana's Music Community for 25 years Special Student Discount Bring your student ID 

Sophomore Rick Slager will compete this afternoon at number-on singles as the Irish netters host Illinois starting at 2 p.m. Then, it's off to the gridiron for the quarterback from Columbus, Ohio. 
"And I am happy I came. The takes and mort)~xpenence. The greatest moment for me here was only thing to hold us back this the Sugar Bowl locker room. I year is attitude, and I think Coach wish everyone could have been Parseghian can control that." there. I think every player felt that Rick Slager might not yet be a it was his effort that made the winner on the tennis court, and he difference in the game. Everyone might not be the first-string felt he contributed to that one quarterback. But with his winning point. There was something attitude, Notre Dame's two sports special about last year's team. can only benefit. It is just a matter .·:u can~~ the same thisyear,'he of time, and time in this case is f1mshes. We have everything it where Rick Slager finds it. 
Right to Life Symposium 
Slides and Presentation 
Tues. April 2, 7:30 pm 
SMC Stapleton Lounge 

Hairstyling ... with style 
+Award Winning Stylists +Unique Atmosphere 
+ Roffler Styling and Products 

KEN'S DEN 
First Floor, 100 Center Mishawaka, Indiana Appointments Prefered, 255-6500 




PLACEMENT BUREAU 
M.tn Building 
IlrrERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF APRIL 8, 1974 
Sign-up period begins Mon., April 1 
Intervieva are for aeniora and graduate atudenta. Sign-up achedulea are in Roo. 207, Main Bldg. Interview tt.ea .uat be signed for in peraon, Roura are 8:00 a,m, to 5:00 p,m., Monday thru Friday, Tbe Place.ent Manual gives additional inforaation regarding inter­
Yiev procedurea, 
Aft. 8 FireUone Tire & Rubber Co··S-r, BBA. Cllldidate , ~ J~miora only. 
Aft. 9 Rietb·Riley Conatruction Co··B,H in CE,
iiii:"" Southern Ohio Bank--All BBA. 
All. 10 Yodar Jrotbera, Inc--All BBA.
-=--­
...l.,.er Infor.atiOG. AltenatiYea. 'hec:ll... s-r. ActiOG/hece Corpe/Yillta. h ..ral Sari-. 




