-----------------~----~--­
OD The Inside 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Tuesday, April 30, 1974 
Vol. VIII No. 117 
New code looses controversy 
by Fred Graver and Terry Keeney 

University administrators and college deans responded to revisions in the Academic Code yester­day. Assistant Provost William Burke, Dean of the College of Science Bernard Waldman, and Assistant Dean of Arts and Letters Richard Thompson expressed mixed reaction to the new code and proposed student revisions. 
University Provost James Burtchaell refused to comment on the proposed Academic Code. Deans Joseph Hogan and Vincent Raymond were unavailable for comment. 
The Academic Code was revealed along with proposed student amendments by Academic Af~airs Commissioner Chris Nedeau last Thursday m a meeting with other student leaders. 
Charge for 17 credits 

The retionale behind the proposed charge for any student carrying more than 17 credit hours as ex­plained by Dr. Burke, Dean Waldman and Dean Thompson, is that is would cut down on students who sign up for extra courses and later decide to drop them. 
Burke observed, "Let's say a student is taking x course and this is his seventh or eighth, he will have taken the space that someone may need for his fourth or fifth course. This is infintely unfair." 
To raise the credit hour limit to 18 hours would still allow students to take extra courses. Yet with a 17 hour load students in all colleges can fulfill their requirements for graduation.j 
"Itwas set at 17 because this is the number of credits involved in many first-year· programs," Dean Waldman stated. 
Burke agreed: "The 17 hour limit was arrived at by taking into account the requirements in all the departments." 
Dean Thompson denied that the proposal was in­tended to keep students from graduating before four years. He pointed out that if a student in Arts and Letters takes five courses each semester, he will graduate. A student in Arts and Letters must take 40 courses of three credit hours each. Courses of one or two credit hours do not count towards graduation. 
"One graduates on the basis of courses, not credits," explained Thompson. If a student had to take over 18 credits for any reason, Burke expressed confidence that "These fees 
could be waived by the dean. He has the final control over the program," he. said. 
Vacations 

The proposed Academic Code would require student attendance on the day before and after vacations. Thompson defended the need for such a measure. 
"The University has an obligation to see that somebody's here," said Thompson. "Frequently before break you can shoot a cannon down the hall and nobody would get hit." 
Thompson disagreed with the charge that this regulation would interfere with the individual teacher's right to control his class. 
Dean's List 

The proposal to raise the grade point requirement for Dean's Honor List from 3.25 to 3.50 met with opposition from Dean Waldman. Admitting that the purpose of the measure is to reduce the number of high grades given students, he cited other ways to stop sueh grade inflation. 
"Obviously there is a better way to put pressure on instructors to be more realistic in grading," Waldman said. 
Burke argued that the large numbers on the Dean's List do not justify raising the standard. 
"It may be possible that there are too many people on the list, though numbers should not be the only criteria for judging," he said. 
Dean Thompson favors the raise in Dean's List average. "It's a pretty empty honor now to be on the Dean's List," said Thompson. 
"If we're going to live with inflated grades, then we're going to have to raise the criteria for judging outstanding students," Thompson reasoned. 
Spot-out program 

Under the proposed "Stop-out" program a student wouild be permitted a leave of absence from the university for reasons other than physical and mental health. Both Waldman and Thompson cited policies within their respective colleges to deal with students leaving the University. 
"We have a policy on drop outs," Thompson ex­plained, "But we have been extremely felxible in allowing students to return." 
Waldman cited the drop-Qut program used in other schools, notably Harvard. He argued that the most important elements of the Stop-out program were already incorporated into his college. 
"I've been willing to bring students back once they drop out," he noted. 
University curve 

Waldman is opposed to spelling out the University grade distribution curve in the Academic Code because it would infringe on the professor's freedom to grade. 
"I would say we would find a lot of opposition to that proposal," Waldman speculated. "I don't think you can legislate on that." 
"A good number of faculty will insist that a grade is an absolute quantity, not a relative quantity," he continues. 
Thompson pointed to the difficulty of applying a distribution curve for the entire university. He argued that such a curveshould not apply equally for restricted courses in one's major and for unrestricted classes. 
"Itseems unfair to me to apply the same bell-shaped· curve for all students in unrestricted classes as in restricted-classes," he contended. " Where you have a set of prerequisite courses, . a curve is not possible." 
Grade referral 

Questioned on whether he would support the for­mation of a board in each college to review grievances on grades, Dean Waldman defended the absolute right of the instructor to determine grades. 
"On grade grievance, that's a situation that is still absolute with the professors," said Waldman. "The one thing we won't touch is how a professor gives a grade." 
Waldman favors some kind of referral board in each college to handle grievances concerning cheating and plagiarism. He cited similar referral in the College of Science. 
Thompson favored a grievance committee system organized on a department level for grades, cheating, and plagiarism. 
Speaking of the Arts and Letters College, Thompson commented, "The departments are encouraged to have standing or ad hoc committees to handle grievances on grades, proceedings, and cheating." 
The Academic Code and the revisions proposed by Nedeau will be presented to the Academic Council meeting next Monday May 6. 
SLC continues sex discussions 
by James E. Rosini Staff Reporter 

The Student Life Council continued their discussion 
of rules  revisions,  related  to  parietals  and  sexual  
relations  between  students,  in  a  meeting  held  
yesterday.The revis ion ut rul es calle d fo r a  1c ar .f.1 I . Cation o  f th e  

sexual relations rule's intent and of its relationship to parietal rules. The parietal discussion centered around, "the ambiguity and varying practices as to whether it is a hall offense or a university one." 
The goal of yesterday's meeting was, U the elimination of the ambiguity in the policy statement about sexual intercourse on campus and 2.) the clarification about enforcement of parietal violations. 
After a two hour meeting, Fr. Carl Ebey moved that, "A committee be formed to discuss and formulate a group of proposals that can be voted on next week." The committee will consist of Dean John Macheca, Professor Thomas Werge, Father David Schlaver, Student Body Pre~ident Pat McLaughlin and Mike Giesinger. 
The meeting began as John Macheca, Dean of Students suggested that a better recommendation of the state~ent of the sexual relations rule be offered. The current rule states that a genuine commitment in marriage is needed for true expression of love between the sexes. Macheca proposed that it be changed to read, "Among the activities considered det~imental to the university community would be mcluded: ... behavior between the sexes that is scandalous or otherwise detrimental to the quality of community life in the residence hall and on the campus." 
Referring to the wording of the old rule, Dr. Phillip ­faccenda said that they were "exhortation," and they weren't written as a rule. Faccenda also pointed out that the new wording proposed by Macheca was, "the working language developed by the Theology Department.'' 
Fr. Carl Ebey then brought up the fact that the new wording devised by the Theology Department was even more vague than the previous wording. "It seems to me that it passes a very broad general area," said Ebey. "It would be hard for the administration or anyone else to pass judgement on such vague wor­ding." 
Professor John Roos narrowed the entire question down to three bold alternatives saying that either "1.) All sexual intercourse is forbidden and punitive action will be taken; 2.) The university does not condone sexual intercourse outside marriage, although it is not a punishable offense; or 3.) Sexual intercourse is forbidden although we will not go 'peeking through keyholes.'" Roos stated these bold alternatives, "So that there be a clear statementt of what the university thinks is right." 

Maureen Gleason then agreed with Roos saying, "Students are entitled to a clear definition of the rules if they are to be punished for them." 
Frank Flanagan, SLC Student Representative, said that he was "Against rules that could not be enforced." 
"If the rule was against sexual intercourse, then the accused must be caught in the actual act of copulation," Flanagan continued. 
It was then advised that the rule must be against co­habitation and not copulation. Macheca brough up the point that it would be advisable to determine exactly what aspects of student sexual behavior is against University policy; whether it be solely pre-marital intercourse or the entire parietal issue. That question remained unsolved throughout the meeting. 
It was then proposed that the rules section of the student manual be left unchanged. Fr. Schlaver, in turn, proposed that part B2 of the rules section be changed from, "the university believes that the sexual union should occur only in marriage," to "overt sexual activity occuring on campus, when it is flagrant or scandalous, can be a matter for disciplinary action." 
Both motions were defeated by strong opposition. 
After a short discussion, Fr. Ebey moved that his sub-committee take action before the next week and the meeting was adjourned. 
-

the observer Tuesday, April.30, 1974 
warld 

briefs 

MONTGOMERY, Ala., (UPHGeorge Wallace, Jr., son of Alabama's Gov. George C. Wallace, said Monday he did not get clearance from his father before he and a young black woman went apartment hunting. 
WASHINGTON, (UPI) -The House Monday passed .._a resolution providing another $733,773 to foot the cost of the House Judiciary Committee's impeachment inquiry from April 1 throu June 30. 
ALGIERS,•. <UPl) --U.S. Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, in a crucial step toward a Middle East peace settlement, ob­tained a promise of Soviet assistance in his efforts to promote a troop withdrawal agreement between Israel and Syria on the Golan Heights front. 
WASHINGTON <UPI) --Former White House Special Counseil Charles W. Colson testified Monday that prior to the 1971 Ellsberg break-in, President Nixon told him to stop national security leaks and "I don't give a damn how it is done." 
an campu• taday 
4:30p.m.--seminar, "hormone biosynthesis In teleast islets of 
langerhans," by dr. g. eric bauer, galvin aud. 

7:00, 7:00, 11:00 p.m.--movie, "valachi papers," sponsored by 
wsnd-fm, eng. aud. 

8:00 p.m. --freshman humanities festival, the horror, the horror, 2nd floor Iafortune 
Summer storage site found by SU 
declared. 

by Ken Bradford "We really had hoped to find a remark, Nixon then ticked off 
Staff Reporter place for · storage on campus," Burke stated, "but it's late in the The Student Union has found a year and this well be a real good 



Erratum 

site for summer storage but details facility for us." are yet to be "ironed out," ac­"This is the first year the The article in Monday's Ob­cording to Student Union Director Student Union has been working 
server concerning the InfirmaryPat Burke. with summer storage and this is Questionaire contained two errors,The proposed site for storage is also the first year that the informed Mrs. Clover Gowing.

the Marycrest complex, located on Fieldhouse has been unavailable," Faculty members and their wivesWestern Avenue. "Our major Burke said. 
are not presently eligible for porblem will be in working out a The Student Union still has lots services rendered by the In­plan for transporting all the stuff of work to do in developing the firmary. Thse services are across town," Project Chairman project, setting the minor reserved to those enrolled in theRick Golden noted. restrictions, etc., he noted. 

University and paying tuition.

Golden stated the location was "Our biggest concern is in Secondly, the Infirmaryobtained primarily through the keeping cost a a minimum," Questionaire does not require a 
Director Arthur Pears. "All we added. really have right now is the place," Golden noted that it might be Golden observed, "and we just got especially difficult to secure that today." volunteers for transporting ar­
Burke said most of the problems ticles during final exam week. surrounding the use of the Golden also announced that the Marycrest warehouse will be Student Union is planning to resolved in time for the last sponsor the Book Exchange printing of the Observer Wed­program again next August. nesday. "We'll have a definite Future plans for the project will be statement at that time," he released Tuesday night. 

Nixon releases transcripts 
WASHINGTON (UPI) 

the transcribed orders he gave the cover-up once he under­Pr-i~,~>ident Nixon said Monday in the period following April 15, stood it had occurred. night he would make public 1973, the day he ordered His previous three cit.ations of 
1,200 pages of transcripts of his Assistant Attorney General transcripts, in order, were Watergate conversations but he.. 
Henry E. Petersen to press a these: would defy a House impeach­full-scale Watergate investiga­-From a March 21, 1973, 
ment inquiry's subpoena for the tion: conversation with Dean, then tapes themselves. "Speaking to (H.R.) Halde­his counsel, when he said Dean Nixon told the nation in a man and (John D.) Ehrlich­first informed him there had television address that the man: '...It is ridiculous to talk been a coverup: "He said to transcripts would prove him about clemency. They all knew me -as the transcripts show: innocent of wrongdoing but that.' 'I can just tell from our would embarrass him and his "Speaking to Ehrlichman: conversation that these are 
associates and they would show 'We all have to do the right · things that you have no he "considered long and hard" thing ... We just cannot have knowledge of.'" meeting E. Howard Hunt's this kind of a business. -From a March 21 conversa­demand for blackmail pay­"Speaking to Haldeman and tion involving Dean and Hal­ments. Ehrlichman: 'The boil has to be deman, on the subject of 
Nixon said he would allow the pricked ...We have to prick the convicted Watergate burglarchairman and senior Republi­boil and take the heat. Now E.Howard Hunt's alleged de­
can member of the. House that's what we are doing here.' mand for hush money and Judiciary Committee -which is Speaking to Henry Petersen: Nixon's feeling that payment of weighing whether to recom­

'I want you to be sure you it would lead to demands for mend his impeachment to the understand, that you know we clemency as well: House this summer -to listen are going to get to the bottom "I said, 'it is wrong, thats for to the actual tapes to verify of this thing.' sure'. I pointed out: "But in the their accuracy. But independent "Speaking to John Dean: end, we are going to be bled to checks to see if they had been 'Tell the truth. That is the ting death. And in the end, it is all tampered with apparently I have told everybody around going to come out anyway.would be barred under the here.' '"And in effect', I added, proposal. "Speaking to Haldeman: 'And 'look live a cover-up. So that 
Rep. Peter W. Rodino Jr., D­you tell Magruder: now Jeb, we can't do.'" N.J., the chairman, said before this evidence is coming in, you -From an April 15 telephoneNixon spoke that "we will ought to go to the grand jury. conversation with Petersen, 
accept nothing less" than tme Purge youself if you've per­telling him to urge Watergate tapes themselves. jured and tell this whole burglary conspirator G. Gordon Rep. Edward Hutchinson of story."' Liddy to talk to investigators:Michigan, the ranking Repub­In these citations, Nixon "I...directed that he should 
lican, said he was satisfied with referred to his decision not to make clear not on]y to Mr. Nixon's offer -especially since, grant clemency as part of any Liddy but to everyone that, and in his view, the committee payoff to hush up the convicted I quote directly from the tape,
could not enforce it subpoena Watergate burglars, and to the -as far as the President is anyway. orders he gave to cooperate concerned everybody in this "Let me quote just a · few with grand juries investigating case is to talk and to tell the truth.'" 
Hairstyling ... with style 
+Award Winning Stylists +Unique Atmosphere 
+ Roffler Styling and Products 
KEN·s DEN 

First Floor, 100 Center Mishawaka, Indiana Appointments Prefered, 255-6500 
lines from the transcripts, so that you can hear for yourself the orders I was giving in this period," the President said in the last and longest of the tiny earfuls of citation he included in his televised address. 
Without mentioning the dates or circumstances of each 

suggestion of Campus Security Associate Director Ray Carey 
student to give his name. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester ($14 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 








a movie sponsored by WSND fm ... 
TONIGHT 7, 9, 11 PM Engineering Auditorium 


$1.00 
Admission 
3

Tuesday, April 30, 1974 the ob~erver 
In Library Auditorium 
Ruckelshaus gives Senior Fellow Address 
by Tom Kruczek row. All that will happen if we do 
Staff Reporter 

not get involved is that the 
corruption we see today in 
In his Senior Fellow Address government will continue," he yesterday before a sparse crowd in said. the Library Auditorium, William Ruckelshaus then moved on to Ruckelshaus stressed the im­the beneficial aspects of portance of becoming involved in Watergate. "I think that we have a the American political system. great deal to be optimistic about. 
Ruckelshaus also emphasized that If we are able to talk about the even during this time of possibility of impeachment of a 
Watergate-dominated news, there is still much to be optimistic about. 
Ruckelshaus began his statements by commenting on Watergate, because as he put it, "I am so intimately involved with it." 
Last October Ruckelshaus, as firs. assistant to former Attorney General Elliot Richardson, resigned rather than fire special prosecutor Archibald Cox. Joining Ruckelshaus in a one-day housecleaning of the White House staff was Richardson, who also resigned rather than submit to pressure to fire Cox, and Cox, who was eventually fired. 
"During the Watergate hearings under Senator Sam Ervin," Ruckelshaus related, "Gordon Strahan stated that 'my advice to anyone thinking of going into politics is to stay away.'Well, I would have to say that this is about 180 degrees wrong." 
"I feel that we have to become 
involved in political processes, as 
it's time to get into the boat and 


Sister Ann opens 

of the majority of good honest
by Ken Bradford 

people, not the world of headlines
Staff Reporter 

of crime and disaster or the 
The public is invited to view the twilight world of the bizarre." paintings of Sister Ann Carmel Her most characteristic works Segura, Louisiana Teaching are informal full-length portraits Carmelite, in the Fencing Hall of in which she strives "to capture the Old Fieldhouse, May 1 to 14 the quality of the whole character from 2 to 7 in the afternoons. while recording the immediate 
The formal opening of the exhibit vividness of each unique per­will take place on May 1 from 5 sonality." 
p.m. to 7 p.m. The entrace door to Sr. Segura commented, "I am an the new gallery is the north door of admirer of the great Spanish the Fieldhouse, opposite Breen­painters Velasquez, Zurbaran, and Phillips Hall. Goya and so, like them, I try im 
Sr. Segura, a native of New Iberia, Louisiana, has received several awards in drawing, painting, woodcarving, and sculpture, and her paintings have been shown in Michigan, Illinois, and Indiana. 
She was awarded a Master's Degree in art from Notre Dame in 1969 and is scheduled to receive the coveted professional degree in painting, the Master of Fine Arts, in August of this year. 
Besides teaching at a wide variety of high schools in her home state, Sr. Segura has travelled extensively, visiting art galleries in France, Italy and Mexico, as well as most of the major galleries in the United States. 
As an artist, Sr. Segura said, "I 

see the world for what it is, but it is my world and the ordinary world Sister Ann Carmel Segura. 
Attention Engineering Students 
Applications being taken for Student Representative to the Engineering College Council 
If interested, please bring name and 
brief statement of purpose to Joint 
Engineering Council mailbox (room 22 
Engineering Building) by 4:30 Wed., 
May --1_.. ..!J.·· •__,;· . 
I • ;.tr-w!• ~ ''': .-.......~ .. ·. ~~.. ·.·~···· ~\.. ;·.··'~ 
president for wrongs, then the 
political process is working. 
Every effort to frustrate the in­
vestigations into the Watergate 
incident have failed," he noted. 
Moving on to the Archibald Cox firing incident, Ruckelshaus commented that, in the affair, he was the "massacree". He con­tinued, "As a result of the firing of Cox from the Special Prosecutors office, I believe that the office has gotten even stronger." 
Ruckelshaus elaborated that Jaworski is now able to contest any presidential claims of immunity, and also that the President may not fire Jaworski on a mere whim. Now leaders of both Houses have to be consulted before Jaworski could be released from his duties. 
Ruckelshaus also pointed out that, because of the work of Cox, and the huge outcry of the American people on his firing, Jaworski is under a unique pressure to prosecute. "If Jaworski decides that because of insufficient evidence not to prosecute, then he could be in for a huge public lambasting," he said. 
The former head of the EPA also pointed out that the Cox incident reaffirmed his faith in the American people. "Over one million telegrams came into Washington over this issue, forcing the White House to appoint a new Special Prosecutor," Ruckelshaus 


art show 
some paintings to show mystery through predominant dark values." 

observed. of it, and as a secondary result of 
Ruckelshaus outlined what he the draught, a wheat shortage is felt would be good guidelines for a predicted, with estimates set for political candidate. "First, make over a million Africans to starve to certain resolves that there are death, he stated. certain things you will not do to get "The problem is that only 1 or 2 votes. Second, make sure that you per cent of the American people decide that there are certain lines know about the situatiohn there, let over which I will not step, and alone care about it. We have a remember that your highest-disparity between the haves, and 
obligation is to serve the best in­terests of the American people," he suggested. 
Ruckelshaus pointed out the certain negative effects of the Watergate incident.'' We are at a very crucial stage in our country, and currently we are not giving enough attention to what we should." 
He related that he had spent three weeks in Africa working on an environmental project with the African governments in wake of the huge draught with which the continent has been plagued. Over 80,000 people have died as a result the have-nots in America, and we have to act to have these priorities of our nation switched," the for­mer head of the FBI added. 
"In fact, in India, there is an estimate that the amount of fer­tilizer that their country needs to avoid starvation of its people is the amount America will use on its golf courses in the fall," he added, tos tress his point. 
Ruckelshaus concluded his speech by emphasizing again the need to become involved in the political system. Following the lecture, the Senior Fellow fielded questions from the floor. 
RESERVATIONS
:r: 
284-4176
I-





w ND 
Student • Faculty 
SMC 
ND·SMC Staff 
$200

THEATRE 
SEASON 1973-74 


John Gay's ribald musical romp Apr. 26, 27, May 2, 3, 4 at 8:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 

There's no easy way tor Charlie Nelson to become Dr. Nelson. 
But there is a way to make it somewhat easier. Our way. The Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. It won't soften the demands of your professors, or those you make upon yourself -but it may free you from those financial problems which, understandably, can put a crimp in your concentration. 
If you qualify, our scholarship program will cover the costs of your medical education. More, you'll receive a good monthly allowance all through your schooling. 
But what happens after you graduate? 
Then, as a health care officer in the military branch of your choice you enter a professional environment that is challenging, stimulating and satisfying. 
An environment which keeps you in contact with practically all medical specialties. Which gives you the time to observe and learn before you decide on your specialty. Which may present the opportunity to train in that specialty. And to practice it. 
You may also find some of the most advanced medical achievements happening right where you work. Like at the Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio, Texas, long noted for its Burn Treat­ment Center. Or the home of Flight Medicine, the famed Aerospace Medical Division, also in San Antonio. Or the National Naval Medical Center in 
Bethesda, Maryland, recognized worldwide for its 
work in Medical Research. 
And if you've read this far, you may be interested in the details. Just send in the coupon and we'll supply them. 
r-----------------------,
~~~~d Forces Scholarships Z..CN-44 
Universal City, Texas 78148 
I desire information for the following proJram: Army (J 
Navy 0 Air Force Q Medical/OsteopathiC 0 Dental C 
Veterinary• 0 POt..hatry 0 Other (please specify) 
Nam•-------;-:(p:-.:le::::as:::-e-=pr:T.:in"'t)_____ 
Soc. Sec.# ___________ 
Address _____________ 
City 

State Zip 
Enrolled at 

(SChOOl)  
To graduate in  (month)  (year)  (degree)  
Date of birth  
{month)  (day)  (year)  

•veterinary not available in Navy Program. 
-----------------------~ 
ARMED FORCES HEALTH CARE 
OEOICATEO TO MEOICINE ANO THE PEOPLE WHO PRACTICE IT 
...... '.'. ·... , .......... ·, .. '' ..-_..' 
L----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
J 
1 
1 
·­

__j 

' .. ' .. ,, '. ·,1,/.;:: ,,.~ 
the observer Tuesday, April 3o,.f974. 
4 

$800,000 donated at engineering banquet 
I 
' 
f 
r 
~ 
" I 
I 
r 
r 
f 
f 
by Pat Flynn Staff Reporter 
Last Friday at a banquet given in connection with the centennial celebration of the College of Engineering, Father Theodore 
Hesburgh  announced  the  
presentation  of  $800,000  to  the  
University  by  Thomas  D.  

McCloskey, to be used to endow the chair of the Dean of the College of Engineering. In the endowment transaction, the title of .;1e money is given to the Univt"sity, which will use the interest from it to permanently finance the salary of the Dean of Dngineering. 

James W. Frick, Vice President of Public Relations and Development said in response to the chair endowment that it g\ves himself and other university ad­ministrators great hope for the future." "Given doubts about the validity of private education, the quality of this institution depends upon our ability to financially undergird our faculty. "With this endowment we know that as far as we project into the future, we will always be able to finance an outstanding Dean of Engineering," he said. 
Frick described the present state of the university as like that of a man in a poker game,playingwith 



SMC celebrates 'Spring' 
by Mary Janca Staff Reporter 
Canoe rides, art exhibit, and an ice cream social are among ac­tivities planned for this Sunday between 2 and 5 p.m. as St. Mary's College hosts its second annual open house, "Spring on Campus." 
"The purpose of the open house is to 1share all facets of St. Mary's College. with the Michiana com­munity, SMC Public Information Director Robin Hague said. Thus, all members of the Notre Dame St. Mary's and Michiana community are invited, and all activities are free, she stated. 
Hague, who aso serves as co­ordinator of the event, noted, "The college's administration, faculty, staff and students are involved in the event.". 
Students will conduct campus tours, which will include the biology, chemistry physics and language laboratores, as well as unusual and rarely-visited areas of the campus, such as the college archives in Bertrand Hall, Reidinger House, which was for­merly used by home economics majors and now by the president 
for  entertainment,  and  the  
Learning  Center,  an  ungraded,  
experimental  school  for  about  

twenty junior and senior high school students," stated Hague. 
The SCM Admissions Staff will be on hand for consultation, and representatives of various academic departments also plan to explain their courses and ac­tivities, and to answer questions in the LeMans Hall foyer. 
St. Mary's Collegiate Choir will perform at 3:00 and 4:00 p.m. on the lawn in front. of O'Laughlin Auditorium while SMC's cham­pionship fencing team will demonstrate its techniques in front of LeMans main entrance. 
Canoe rides will be offered on Lake Marion, in front of SMC's library. 
In addition, "Art in Industry," an articitic salute to the 100th anniversary of Sibley's, a local business firm, opens Sunday in Moreau Gallery. A painting and lead repousse exhibit by local artist Marcia Kimmerly opens in the Little Theatre Gallery. 
Student art work will also go on sale in the afternoon in front of the Dining Hall. 
Wearv visitors will be able to treat themselves to 5 cent ice cream cones at the ice cream social, sponsored by Student Government, outside the Dining Hall. 


BOAC: 

We still have Youth Fares to Europe 
Can Clark 234-2098 and 
sa·ve money• 
.-I ~ • • ' ' '· J 

A continuous reception in the campus, and tours will begin Stapleton Lounge, Lemans will be from the LeMans Hall bus stop, hosted by SMC President Edward added Hague. 
L. Henry, administration, and 
faculty. She estimates that 500-1000 Programs and maps will be visitors will turn up for the open opponents with 50 times as many years later, he founded McCloskey chips as he. The net total of en-and Company, which he build into dowment funds of institutions one of the nations largest building such as Harvard and Yale are in and real estate development the neighborhood of a billion and a companies. half dollars. Duke, which is ap-Achievements of McCloskey and proximately the same size as Company include such operations Notre Dame has about 225 million as the construction fo the U.S. Mint dollars. Notre Dame has at building, Veterans stadium, City present about 80 to 85 million in the Convention Hall and a 130 million endowment fund, he said. dollar Penn Center urban renewal 
"Tuition covers only about 39 project in Philadelphia. In per cent of our operating cost. Washington, such projects as the There is no other way to go other Rayburn building, the U.S. Post than to try to support all our Office Department Building, the professorships through endowed Senate Office Building, and Robert chairs.. stated Frick. F. Kennedy Stadium were un-
The gift is in hOnor of Thomas dertaken by McCloskey. McCloskey's father, Mathew H. McCloskey is also a well-known McCloskey, Jr. a famous con-figure in the political arena. He struction engineer, industrialists, has been a highly successfu fund-politician and philanthropist who raiser for the Democratic Party died last year. He entered the since the 1930's, and was appointed construction business at 16 as an Ambassador to Ireland in 1962 by 
provided for all visitors PntPrirlD house:.:·___________:a~pp!:.:r:..:e::n::ti::ce:.......:a:.:t_$7:.:..._.:a.......::w.:::.ee::,::k:::·_·.:.,:N:,::in~e:__:P.:r.::::es~id~e:,:n~t_:J~o:=_:h:..:,n.:,F:..:·...:.v~-:::T~·::·:;!"-!.:...,· 
WE REALLYMOVE OURTAILANDYOURS TOLOSANGELES 



FOR$126. 
($l41ess than anybody's Coach fare) 

DENVER $ 72 SAVE $10 COLORADO SPRINGS $ 72 SAVE $10 EL PASO $ 93 SAVE $12 ONTARIO, CALIF. $126 SAVE $14 
The only non-stop Economy service to ALBUQUERQUE $ 86 SAVE$ 9 And the only Economy service to KANSAS CITY $ 39 SAVE$ 4 
Fares Include tax. 
We're the only airline to offer Economy fares throughout our route system. So depending where home is, it may cost you less to fly Continental. So call your travel agent, our partner in getting things done, or Continental at 686-6500. We can probably get you where you live-for less. 
We really move our tail for you. 

CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 
The Proud Bird with the Golden lail. 
I 
Tuesday, April 30, 1974 


Yale prof lectures on poetry 
byTomGora 

Rene Wellek, Sterling Professor Emeritus of Comparative Literature at Yale University, lectured Monday evening on "Poetics and Interpretation." Speaking before a large and receptive assembly in the Library Auditorium, Wellek discussed both the Poetic and Interpretive ap­proaches to a literary un­derstanding. 
The well-known author of A History of Modern Criticism and the Theory of Literature, ex­plained in historical form the developments and advancements of each theory. Poetics, the study of literature from a humanly sensible, emotive framework, could be seen as antithetical to the Interpretive or hermeneutic study of literature which relies on a secondary meaning, hidden behind the literal development. 
Wellek began the lecture by pointing out that some people view the history of literary criticism as a chaotic condition in which the critic only serves as an in­terruption. Departing from this definition, he attempted to show that literary criticism has served as a perveyor of continuity rather than as a disruptive force. Yet, he nevertheless decried the "new science of poetics" as in­terpretation which has come to base itself on universal concepts, converting it into a sort of social science, as well as the Interpretive system which usually lends itself to any available psychological system (Freudian, Jungian, existential, etc.). 
Wellek saw the problem basically as rationalism verses irrationalism; the blatant object verses the involved self; craft­smanship and technique verses consciousness and mind. 


Summer planned 
by Ken Bradford Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame Economics Department has announced its schedule for summer courses. The courses are offered on a micro­course basis in which each topic consists of eleven class hours and offers one hour of undergraduate or graduate credit. 
Students are allowed to take one to eight micro-courses during the three mini-sessions of the summer. 
The courses offered during the June 25-Luly 9 session include Historical Origins of Capitalist Ideology, Federal Tax Problems, Micro-economics: A Computer Assisted Review, and Labor and the Law. 
He gave a brief description first of the Poetic system, ranging through the 17th and 18th cen­turies, through genre theory, through lyrical song and poetry, to Italy and England of the 19th century, where he claimed literary history arose. 
Kant added a dialectic element to Poetics, the relationship bet­ween man and nature, and tried to find in literature a philosophy of history, an interpretation of genres, Wellek continued. Wellek spent a good deal of time describing the Russian Formalists of the 20th Century, who through their formal devises and linguistic tools, sought strictly to study fiction. Out of this school came Paul Valery, the French poet who occupied the poetry chair at the College de France between 1937 and 1945. As in later theories, time and special distance made up a good part of his language. 
Wellek spoke about the English critic I. A. Richards who brought along the first new idea in a long time with his neurological psychology. The critic studied the reader in relation to the work of art. His theory was almost devoid of authorial consideration. 
Northrop Frye, in his Anatomy of Criticism, introduced the idea of literature existing on its own, apart from the world which some claimed it emulates. The logical outgrowth of this idea was the French Fractionalists of Struc­turalists, who continue to gather support today. Mr. Wellek described the Fractionalists as having a narcisstic attitude in their criticism. Literature for them represented a neutralizer for the true and the false; it was merely irreality. 
In summation of his ideas on Poetics, Mr. Wellek concluded, "When you question the ap­


courses for Econ 
The July 10-July 24 session will feature The Marxian Critique of Capitalist Ideology, Capitalism: 
Structural Violence, Crisis in State 
and Local Finance, Collective Bargaining, and Energy and Economics. 
Offered during the July 25­
August 8 session will be Modern plicability of the model of the linguistic system to the totality of literature, I am not quite con­vinced that it would be adequate. I doubt that such an enterprise could establish a universal system of literature." 

"Literature is not a single system of internal relations, but it is an enormous, changing, manifold system, spreading over huge branches of time. Literature is not only language. Motives, being, images, symbols, com­positional schemes, genre pat­terns, character and hero types as well as qualities, such as the tragic and comic, can be discussed with only a minimum of regard, if any at all, to their linguistic for­mulation," he continued. 
Wellek then proceeded to outline the less-well defined interpretive system of criticism, using the Biblical and Judicial background that probably gave rise to the hermeneutic tradition. 
Through the Protestant pietism, 
the German Geistesgeschikte and 
Wirkensgeschikte (history of in­
tellect and of the reader's response 
activity), Wellek explained how 
the hermeneutic evaluation of 
literature eventually led, through 
the French George Poulet and 
other more modern critics, to a 
complete disregard for the 
meaning of a work. "The critic 
eventually doesn't care for the 
novel or the character, but only the 
consciousness behind the work." 
On the contemporary level, 
Wellek cited J. Wilson Knight 
(Wheel of Fire)D. W. Robertsor 
with his study of Chaucer, andc the. 
English critic F. R. Levis as being proponents to the modern bran­ches of this system of criticism. 
From Frye again, Wellek quoted that the "only thing that counts is the theory, or in his vocabulary, the criticism, as all the rest is subject to the fancy of the public." 
Finally, in a brief explanation of what he believes to be the true purposes and embodiment of literary criticism, Wellek ex­plained, "Still, there is a possibility to mediate the conflict. Gerard Genet, I think the best critic among the recent French Structuralists, formulates the possibility of a synthesis very well." 
"The work of art can be valued for different reasons by different people because it is not some neutral physical fact out there, charged with value, inseparable from its author. What we need then, is a system or science of values, an axiology. In short, I 
220 W. Marion 
think we need critics, but judicial critics," he commented. 
"We need the kind of critics in which I think the English literary tradition has found itself par­ticularly rich with its array of poet­critics. Dryden, Pope, Johnson, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Arnold, and T.S. Eliot are all molders of taste and creators of value," Wellek stated. 
Professor Wellek is currently in residence at Indiana University in Bloomington as the visiting Patten Lecturer for Spring Semester 1974. Besides his many other in­numerable honors, he is also the recipient of ten universities, in­cluding Oxford, Harvard, Rome, Columbia, Louvain and Michigan. He is an active member of many professional societies in this country and abroad, and a Founding Editor of the leading journal Compaparative Literature." 
-Elkhart 


Serving Michiana's Music Community for 25 years Special Student Discount ·Bring your student ID 
Developments in Economic ; Thought, Economics of Ar-'I 
bitration, Current Problems in ' 0 I International Economics, and East 1 B0 0 KSTORE I
Africa: An Economic Survey. I Two courses will be offered for 
,I I the June 26-August 8 long session. II They are Principles: Micro-, I 
1
~~~~~:ts and Statistical In-11 LAST TWO DAYS Of CLASSES I 
All courses are open to students I I at both the undergraduate and I 
I 

I  HIGHEST  
I i  C AS H  I i  
II1  PAID FOR BOOKS  II1  
BRl N G T H EM TO .•  I I1  
I  N  E DAM E T R  1 I  

r-----------~--------------·
I 
graduate level. 


r-----8-A_G_G-AG_E_TR_U_C_K_T_O---. I M0 N.-TUES. MAy 6-7 I 
THE WASHINGTON D.C. 


AREA 
LOWEST PRICES AVAILABLE $ 1 I C U . FT. CALL MARK AT 7122 OR 
DICK AT 3166 
DEPOSITS ARE NOW BEING TAKEN AT 215 ST. ED'S ORi' 303 HOLY CROSS 

II II 
BRING ALL BOOKS WHETHER 
I USED ON THIS CAMPUS OR NOT 1
1 1 
I 1 
I NEBRASKA BOOK COMPANY I
I I 
1 WORLD's LARGEST COLLEGE JOBBER I I1 I
.! 

.....-----· ·----· -----···-. --------· ··--· ----------. ------------------------. -·-----L-,··-~-~~---------·--J
...... -·· . ·-· 





the day the kkk came to town 
-

Tuesday, April 30, 1974 
by mary ellen mcandrews 
It was not Knute Rockne and the Notre Dame football team that made the national wire service that day. Events began Friday evening, May 16, 1924. Chet Grant who had just come in from Chicago was passing the South Shore Railroad Station when he saw groups of people, disembarking, carrying bundles. The visitors were being met by groups of young men who quickly engaged the visitors in skirmishes in an attempt to wrest their bundles from them. Mr. Grant, who was 32 years old at the time, got curious and it was not long before he was involved. 
That the Ku Klux Klan should have come to South Bend that spring weekend was not unusual. The Klansmen believed that a big parade and picnic would bring out its members and sympathizers in St. Joseph County and show their power in an area that was considered to be a Catholic stronghold in Indiana. 
Authorities at the University of Notre Dame were worried when they learned that the Klan was coming to town. Long a target of the Klan's anti-Catholic agitation, Fr. Matthew Walsh, the president, and others were afraid what might ensue if the students were given a chance to express their feelings about the Klan. 
Accordingly, Friday afternoon, May 16th, Fr. Holderith, the Director of Off­Campus students, met with South Bend Chief of Police, Larry Lane, and talked about the parade that the Klan had scheduled for the next day. Fr. J. H. O'Donnell, Prefect of Discipline, also present at the meeting reported to Fr. Walsh that Lane had explicitly promised that there would be no parade. O'Donnell had explained the problem to Lane: 
"You can appreciate my position, Mr. 
Lane, in trying to keep two thousand red­
blooded young men on the campus at Notre 
Dame when an occasion like this presents 
itself." 
O'Donnell went on the emphasize that it 
was an orderly student body and sup­
posedly Lane agreed, not anticipating any 
trouble the next day. 
Still worried, Fr. Walsh issued a bulletin 
early Saturday morning. It said in part: 
' ... Notre Dame is interested in the 
proposed meeting of the Klan but not to the 
extent of wishing to interfere with 
whatever plans may have been made for a. 
demonstration. Similar attempts of the 
Klan to flaunt its strength have resulted in 
riotous situations, sometimes in the loss 
of life ... There is only one duty that 
presents itself to Notre Dame men, under 
the circumstances and that is to ignore 
whatever demonstration may take place 
today. This suggestion should be taken in 
all seriousness....Let South Bend 
authorities take care of the situation. The 
place for Notre Dame men, this afternoon 
and tonight is on the Notre Dame cam­
pus ... " 
Yet, as day students arrived at the 
campus for their Saturday morning 
classes they began telling their friends of 
the numbers of Klansmen that were 
pouring into town and of the "fiery" red 
cross that was being burned on the side of 
the Klan headquarters at Michigan and 
Wayne Streets. Heedless of Fr. Walsh's 
warning, groups of young men began 
walking or riding the trolley downtown 
that overcast morning. 
At about 9:00 a.m. Klansmen, fully 
robed, began appearing on the street 
corners of the business district, especially 
in the area of the WWashington Ave. and 
Jefferson Blvd. intersections with 
Michigan Street and at the intersection of 
Lincoln Way with Jefferson Blvd. They 
were directing the incoming visitors from 
neighboring towns and states to the picnic 
grounds at Island Park (now Veterans· 
Memorial Park on the North Shore Drive 
at the Twychenham Bridge.) 
Soon after this activity commenced, 
groups of Notre Dame students began 
arriving. By the time an hour had passed 
half a dozen Klansmen had had their robes 
torn from them. A Tribune writer reported 
that "groups ·of Notre Dame students 
jumped on Klan sentries, ripped off their 
regalia and gave them a roughing up." 
As the morning progressed the clashes 
continued. Mayor Seebirt, sensing 
possible trouble had a week earlier refused 
the Klan a parade permit. Yet at this time, 
the Klan leaders were still planning to hold it. Before noon Deputy Sheriff John Culley thought he should call out the 152nd in­fantry of the National Guard. However, the Governor's permission was needed and when telephoned in Indianapolis, he did not think that the situation warranted iit. Instead thirty special deputies were called up. 

According to an article in the Fellowship Forum on May 31, a paper sympathetic to the Klan, the students had taken "forcible possession of the town" in the morning. The article, entitled "Roman Students of Notre Dame Trample Flag," asserted that the students were largely at fault and that they roamed the town with little in­terference from the law: 
"To all appearances the attack by the students was carefully planned. This belief is strengthened by the fact that the students have long bragged that the Klan could not 'put on anything in South Bend.''' 
The accounts of who was to blame and whether or not the law officials had done all they could to control the situation varied with the biases of the reporter. Klan publicity including their official paper, The Fiery Cross condemned the students and other anti-Kluxers while the South Bend Tribune and South Bend News Times tended not to blame either side 

The students agreed they would respond "two thousand strong" if the police asked for help. 
parade would be held even though the Mayor had said no. 
About 2:30, Rev. Horton and D.C. Stephenson jointly announced that the parade would be called off to prevent any further bloodshed. The permit had been withdrawn they noted, and they did not wish to violate the law. An editorial in the Fiery Cross later in the week remarked that the hate expressed by the Notre Dame students was "almost beyond the belief of an American citizen." The editorial blamed the city authorities for not preventing trouble, noting that since Chief of Police, Lane and sixty percent of his force were Catholic, the Klansmen had been left to defend themselves. 
Once the parade was definitely off, the Klan decided to leave town. Chief of Police Lane went to the park and conferred with Klan leaders. It was agreed that the parade would be rescheduled sometime in the future. The 1,500 to 2,000 people that had gathered to picnic slowly began to leave. 
That afternoon, before Lane had gone 'to Island Park, Father O'Donnell, Prefect of Discipline, had again met with him. Reportedly Lane was not worried and felt that he could handle the situation. He asked Father O'Donnell to circulate the 
directly or else to blame the Klan. 
Noontimebro1.1ghta lull in the violence. Members of the Klan group retired to their headquarters to have lunch and make plans for the afternoon. At this time, the city again announced that the parade permit was denied. With the Klan gathered inside, a large crowd composed of well over two hundred students and other anti-Klan sympaththizers gathered in the street and on the sidewalks outside. Members of the crowd began throwing potatoes at the side of the building. They broke a window on the second floor and two on the third floor. Bulbs, from the electric red cross which was hanging on the side of the building were shattered and the cross was soon removed. 
All of a sudden about one hundred students and a few others entered the building and rushed up the stairs. They were met at the top by Klan spokesman, Rev. J. H. Horton of the Calvary Baptist Church on Blaine and California Avenues) who greeted them with a pointed revolver. He held them at bay explaining that he was only protecting women inside who were eating their lunch. 
About 2:00 p.m. Horton allowed four Notre Dame students to enter the room. The two sides conferred for about a half an hour. The Klan agreed not to. wear their hoods in public and in return the students agreed not to attack the participants in the parade. Evidently many still believed the ·news that there would be no parade which the latter agreed to do. . 
The anti-Kluxers either did not yet know of the Klan's decision or were just plan­ning for eventualities. At about 3:30 some students and others gathered in a poolroom on Washington Avenue where one young man asked the group to stay orderly, if the parade should occur. Yet the mood was one still anticipatory of trouble as they agreed that they would respond "two thousand strong" if the police asked for help. Most of them left at about 5:00 p,m. having arranged to meet once again on the Jefferson St. Bridge at 6:30p.m. 
About 6:00 p.m. it started to rain. It 

would continue well until midnight. By 
6:30 there was a group of anti-Kluxers assembled on the Jefferson St. Bridge. Some Klansmen had already left town; others, including those on a special train from Chicago and four special bus loads from Michigan City, were just arriving. The crowd was restless and there were a few small clashes. An anti-Kluxer pulled down a trolley car and was arrested. The streets were filled with people all evening despite the fact that it was raining and no parade was to be had. At one point, state highway patrolman, Gordon Otstot, reputedly active in Klan affairs talked to several of the young men assembled and warned them that there were 5,000 members of the 'hooded organization' from various states gathered not far outside South Bend. Luckily no major incidents occured that night. The rain was a great help in dampening people's enthusiasms for battle. 
Eight actual arrest had been made that day. Six were said to be anti-Klan sym­pathizers: it was not mentioned specifically whether they were Notre Dame students. Thee were arrested for assault and battery, two for using profane language and one for interfering with a street car. One Klnasmen was arrested for carrying a weapon; another for intent to assault, allegedly with a baseball bat. 
The school day Monday was normal. The students talked of the weekend con­frontation with the Klan but there was also much talk about the track team's victory over the Michigan Aggies at Lansing on Saturday. After beating the University of Illinois 7-0 Friday afternoon, the baseball team lost to St. Viator of Bourbannais, Illinois, 11-6 on Saturday. The New York Giants, coached by "Jawa" J. McGraw had come to town and had beaten the local team 12-3 Sunday afternoon at Springbrook Park. 
However by the time lights went out Monday night trouble had begun anew. Apparently students had heard that Klansmen were holding a meeting in town and they went there to see what was going on. About 500 began marching toward Klan headquarters but before they arrived they were met by some Klansmen. Bot­tles, stones and other objects began to fly between the two groups. 
The news got back to campus fast. Someone downtown, most likely a student telephoned the students' booth in Fresh­man Hall (a temporary hall erected in 1922 to relieve the housing shortage). The caller informed the person on the other end to hurry down, that a well known student was being beaten to death down by the courthouse. The alarm spread and a number of students began running toward town. They proceeded to get involved and shortly thereafter a detail of police led by Chief Corwin Hartwick arrived on the scene. Arrests were made. Accounts vary as to the seriousness of the injuries sustained. Some reported that a lot of heads had been bashed in. A Tribune report stated however that there were no real serious injuries; Sgt. Benjamin Roberts was struck in the jaw and might have broken it. Apart from that, the most serious injury was broken nose sustained by Bruce Monroe, of 214 Irvin Ave. 
As the police began carting the offenders away to jail, people began to go off in different directions. A number of students gathered in front of the courthouse and listened as Fr. Walsh mounted the cannon and began to speak. 
Walsh urged the students to return to campus whereupon the students formed ranks and in columns of four marched back to Notre Dame. 
On Tuesday morning Mayor Seebirt met with Klan officials and by the end of the day the town was begining fo get back to normal. Out at Notre Dame the incident was not soon forgotten. Sentries nervously patrolled the grounds every night for the next couple of weeks expecting a Klan attack. 
The students had other things to think about too. With less than one month left of school, the work was piling up and seniors were thinking of graduation and all that entailed. Senior Ball Week, a big social event was upcoming May 21-23. The Notre Dame Daily was a year old that May and it was being claimed that the yearbook The Dome was the best ever. 
Thus as the days got warmer and vacation grew nearer the incidents of the May 17 weekend were relegated to the past. The Juggler, the literary magazine commemorated the event in a piece en­titled "For a Better Notre Dame." In jest the line went: "Washington Hall--rent it as a Klan meeting place; they'll provide the entertainment.'' 
Thus the time was not forgotten and indeed in the next couple of years as the Klan remained strong, the organization's presence would continue to be felt. But for the time being at -least, it was over. 
I 
I I
live rhymin' --chronicle of a career I 
Tuesday, April ao, 1974 the observer 7 
--------------------------~----~ 
Live Rhymin' is the title of Paul Simon's latest release, a collection of some of his more popular songs (plus one by the Jessie Dixon Singers), recorded live either here at the ACC or Carnegie Hall in New York City. Despite a few uneven moments, this album is probably the most important achievement of Simon's to date. 
One of the major criticisms of Paul Simon has been the elaborate production techniques he's used recently. Bridge over Troubled Waters, while being a very, very good album from any point of view, often seemed to me to be just a little overdone <the batteries of strings and cannon that threaten to capsize both "The Boxer" and the title track, the horn section in "Keep The Customer Satisfied," and the voice overdubs on "The Only Living Boy in New York"). On his two solo albums, he's been less complicated in his approach, but still tending to create excellent music in the studio which would be difficult to repor­duce on stage. Simon himself said during the concert here that he couldn't play "Peace Like A River" because it required a special tuning, which he couldn't remember. 
However, on Live Rhymin' he performs by himself on four songs and is ac­companied only by the flutes and strings of Urubamba on another three. The overall effect is a very personal one. Simon's vocals are at times pleading, restrained, humorous, but always solidly delivered. 
"Me and Julio" begins side one in fine style. Simon comes across as a real artist, confident in himself and taking the per­formance quite seriously. His guitar playing, a slight re-arrangement from the version on Paul Simon, is letter perfect. 
Next comes "Homeward Bound," which caught me a bit by surprise at the concert. Almost everyone has heard it, being one of his more popular Simon and Garfunkel songs. Paul slows the song down a bit, changing his phrasing to make a set of familiar lyrics take on a renewed im­portance. 
"American Tune" is one of the high points of the album. Simon's delivery is frightening, it's so good. Just his voice and a guitar crying out at 10,000 college kids sitting in the dark, waiting to be en­tertained. It's much different song than 

a look into other cultures and more 
(Photos by Joseph 
Abell) 
abel/ 
I'm hardly what you'd call an 
"international student": my parents 
are both third and fourth generation 
English and Irish and I've never been 
beyond the waters of the Atlantic or 
the bats of Carlsbad Caverns. Hence, 
I went to the International Student 
Organization's International Festival 
1974 expecting little more than an 
"interesting" look into other cultures. 
I found that, of course. But to stop 
there would do the Festival com­
mittee a grave injustice, for.there was 
much more than a mere look at some 
of the traditions of international 
cultures : there was a spirit of unity 
and fun that is rarely accomplished in 
such a diverse group as the Notre 
Dame community. · The festivities ranged from jubilant 
Lithuanian wedding party-crashing 
dances to the intricacies of Indian 
a review by kevin walsh 
Live Rhymin' 
Paul Simon 
Columbia 
$5.98 

the one found on There Goes Rhymin' 
Simon. 
Simon introduces Urubamba, the four Peruvian musicians, before he begins a spirited "EI Condor Pasa." The lyrics seem secondary to the fine interplay between Simon's guitar playing and the music of Urubamba, even though he counts them among some of his best. 
With "Duncan," the album really begins to take off. I never really liked the album version (though almost everybody else did), but this performance is really ex­cellent. The flutes are perfect, Simon's guitar playing is right in the middle providing the rhythm, and the rest of Urubamba are right there with him. 
"The Boxer" is probably the best song on the album. I've always thought it was his best song, and the job he does here is simply beautiful. From a very simple musical lead-in, Simon just starts singing from the heart and won't quit. The new verse he has added is a pretty substantial one, which fits into the song like it had been there all along. Urubamba are un­believably good, heightening the emotion in each verse. And just when you think they're going to wrap the whole thing up, there's a little flute solo that is im­maculate. A very, very significant piece of music; the definitive performance of the best song by one of our best artists. j 
Side two brings on the Jessy Dixon I 
Group, a three-man combo with three 
female gospel singers, and "Mother and I 
Child Reunion." I prefer the original, but 
there is a lot to listen to here. A nice 
arran~ement, good vocals. All in all, a 
good JOb. 
I 
"The Sounds of Silence" and "Bridge I Over Troubled Waters" are both done I with a new gospel-influenced sound. While j both are very well done, Simon is more I prominent on "Bridge," and he reaches a I peak of emotion that almost rivals "The I Boxer," though the back-up vocals are a I little grating at times. J 
"Jesus Is The Answer," a solo number 1 by the Jessy Dixon Group, is well per­I formed, but I question its being here in the first place. I would have preferred one of I Urubamba 's haunting instrumentals that I I remember from the concert. But it's kind 
I 
of fun hearing one of the singers really 
I 
shout out her lines like she was at a revival 
I
meeting. 
I 
Two of Simon's encores are included, 
I
"Loves Me Like a Rock" and "America" 
I
The former really moves and the audience 
I
loves it, but I don't think it beats the 
I
original. But it's close. 
I
"America" is a different story. Simon is 
I
alone again, singing from his soul one more time. Once again he slows the tempo and tries to get it all across. And once again, he really does. 
Live Rhymin' is important for a number of reasons. As a reminder of a great concert, as a spectacular synthesis of other music styles into American music, but mostly as a chronicle in the per­forming career of a maturing artist. It's really that good. 
sitar music; from a demonstration of Kung Fu to Chinese opera. 
To enumerate the outstanding performances would be to list nearly all, but standout groups included the dancers of the Jaunimo Centro Lietuviu Studentu Ensameblis of Chicago, who with their rousing ac­cordian music and joyful whirling brought many cheers. George Hu, a Kung Fu instructor in Chicago, demonstrated both the "soft" and "hard" varieties of the martial art, portraying both as-even though he denied it-very beautiful dance. And a group of Latin American students at duLac performed popular Latin songs to the cheers and catcalls of a sizeable group in the balcony. 
For the finale (center and above photos), everyone, including the Festival committee, joined onstage for a seven-language rendition of "Up With People." Corny? Not when you know they're singing from their hearts. And even the missed cues and missed dance steps didn't make much difference; it was all part of the rare human feeling present there. ' 

Afterwards, the Latin group (}eft photol, with the help of mucho transient musicians, provided a jam for the festival crowd, playing for nearly 2% hours. 
Last Saturday night at Washington Hall proved at least one thing if nothing else: that other cultures 'are not necessarily best placed in an anthro class, or termed "interesting." Last Saturday's experience proved to be more than a "learning ex­perience;" it was an experience in humanity, and a downright fun one at that. 
the observer 

• ., •• f't .. II ,_ .,. .,. ~ • ,_ • , 
-IUUIIII-IIIIIIIIIUIIIIIUDIIIIIIIIIIriliiHI"'IIII"''I•II"NI'II~IMuU'IUID8·di·---HII­


farewell du lac 

How sweet it •IS 
................................,..,_....i!i!.!!!!:.~...;.:...~.!.!.!!!!.~..~....!.~:. 
"The time has come," the man has said "to speak of many things. Of sailing ships, and sealing wax, of cabbages and kings." Spring is here and thoughts just don't seem to stay with the books, especially if you -happen to share in the phenomenon of a graduating senior. On to the LINKS, THE COURTS, THE DUNES, HOME, and COTTAGES ON LAKE MICHIGAN, as those not as fortunate look with envy. 
May and freedom are within grasp. But then what? Marriage, graduate school, medical and law schools, all are possibilities. Jobs await some, but _apprehension awaits all. No more the carefree days, no more the protection afforded from the golden dome; very soon the time will come and this will be no more. 
No matter where travels may take this diverse group, some say that memorie~ of colleg~ will br~ng on nostalgia. Chicago Trans1t Authonty echomg across the quad, 1970 Cotton Bowl,_ two UCLA defeats, 1972 Orange Bowl, 1973 National Cham­pions, and the emergence of DIRT; those w~re some damn good times. Of course good memones are not exclusive to the clase of '74. Classes past and future have and will experience equal phenomenons. 

Aside from the good times a person has at Notre Dame there is always the classroom. It is often easy t~ forget that this may be one of the m~jor reasons for attending Notre Dame. The old chche "It's for your own benefit" may be true, but I doubt if many students would be c~nvinc~~ that this is the reason for their Saturday mght v1s1ts to the four­teen-story structure called the library. Since studying is the only game in town, a student accepts his occupation reluctantly. 
In my travels, I recentiy heard a remark which seem to ring true. It was said that Notre Dame needed no fraternities, for the school and its people are one big fraternity. Now this fraternity has opened its doors to women, but a fraternity like any organization must deal with change. Notre Dame is no different, despite the efforts of any monastic disciplinarians. 
Throughout my past four years here, I would have fought anyone who tried to link me with the tradition and spirit existing in this fraternal com­munity. Now, in May, I will have become fully initiated into this fraternity they call Notre Dame and I must admit-YOU GOT ME! 
-D Iiphant------------­

'WAMPUM? • • • lEADS? . . . JUNK JEWELRY? . 

daanesbury 
50 THAT'S 1M1Y f/tf I¥R£ 80YS-!HPfi4CHHENT.I I IUANT Y(J(JR 1161C15, 
YOUR 111JV6HT5 ON HOfU HY W16 SI{(X/l/) 60/ 
I 

trudeau 

_the observe~--­
-{JI(ATOIA ASKIN'tJ5 ~ ~ &P?-YlilllAIJUA't5 V01W ANYIIJ4Y YeWPAN6 ~8Qi:B/ ti!IV«.WG 
'rtJTEP FQ(. '!HATRJ()I, WAR. feR E/6HT ~lfi!TN­
OVTASkiN'! 
I~ 

the annual observer end of the year bash will be sunday, may s, 1974. each staff member amy bring one guest. watch for the ad In tomorrow's paper. 
innsbruck-bound night editor: tim o'reiley asst. night editor: thomas john o'neil copy editor: kenneth michael bradford 
special copy editors: robert longfellow tracy and jeanne marie murphy 
lay-out: john robert baker, ann louise mccarry, william alan brink 
day editors: giacomo eggbert rosini sports: eugene jonathen finer an 
typists: jeffrey david mc­pherson, thomas frederick modglin, barbara ann norcross, camille marian arrieh 
compugraphic: gary william allietta night controller: john henry flannigan pictures: albert clarence d'antonio 
and to all: auf Wiedersehen 



The ND student 
in the Third World 
ernie ribera 
Ernie Ribera, a third year pre-professional student from 
Pacifica, California, has spent the past year in Mexico City 
as a member of Notre Dame's foreign study program. 
Here in the Republic of Mexico, a country of some 53 million, one­half to three-fourths of the people are malnourished. Less than one percent of the economically active bring in more than BOO dollars per month, and Mexico leads major nations of the world in rate of yearly population growth--3.5 percent. Notre Dame's Foreign Study Program sends a goup of students to Mexico City each year for the "Sophomore Year Abroad." This city, one of the world's most beautiful, supports 9.5 million inhabitants. By 2001 that figure will be 20 million. Living conditions now are substandard for most, and 93 percent of the entering patients in the Capital's Gerneral Hospital are undernourished. These facts seem staggering, yet hold true for most countries of the world today-those of the Third World. 
Living and studying in a foreign land has many benefits. As the Notre Dame students in Europe and Japan, we are gaining a speaking knowledge of a new language, and at the same time progressing towards that skill which we may bring into society. 
Learning the Spanish lanuage is certainly of great importance in the world of today. In our country alone, there are more than 15 million Spanish-speaking. Disgracefully, Latinos in the United States have faced an uphill struggle due to language and cultural differences, but, it seems, the opportunities for the bilingual are growing, everyday. As all of our classes here in Mexico are taught in Spanish, we can't help but learn this tongue right along with the course content. 
An appreciation and understanding of a new culture is another advantage of the year abroad, and this varies not only from country to country, but_ from student to student to student. The culture and life-style of this country which has given America its Chicano people is a completely unique experience. "To witness a com­pletely different mentality and to gain a new perspective on our own country are both valuable to the Notre Dame student in Mexico.' says Walter M. Langford, current Director of the Mexico program. 
We all live with families of Mexico's growing middle-class and attend the prestigious Universidad Anahuac, but thisis not to say our eyes haven't been opened to the realities of an underdeveloped country. Universities in Mexico are attended by those of the upper­half, while Anahuac, a private, Catholic school of 1450 students, is strictly for the rich. Joe Corpora, of Easton, Pennsylvania, spent fifteen days of his Christmas break in the jungles of the Yucatan Peninsula with 43 other Anahuac students, working with native whose first language is actually Mayan. "The young and the rich are the ones who have the resources to change things in Mexico. Unfortunately, only a small percentage of the Anahuac students really care and are active, while many are completely indifferent to the plight of the poor," relates Joe. 
The student organization AUSA (Accion Social Universidad Anahuac), formed three years ago, sponsors the Yucatan trip twice each year, as well as other social-action programs in the Federal District. Dr Langford, who led the first group of Peace Corps volunteers into Chile in 1962, states that, ''The idea of social commitment is really something new to students, beginning only in the 1960s on campuses in the United States. I find it quite en­couraging to see a program such as ASUA at a school as young as Anahuac. The task now is to see the organization develop." 
One of the primary goals of ASUA is to make the student body aware of the real situation in Mexico today--and that things don't have to be this way. Speaking for the nineteen of the Notre Dame group, Corpora remarks that, "Although we aren't all as active in social projects as we could be, each of us has gained a real ap­preciation of the trmendous disparity in wealth between our country and Mexico." San Antonio Zomeyucan and Raquelito are both city barrios whose residents live in true misery. Through ASUA, students have the chance to teach anything from general hygiene to basketball. This was difficult during the rainy season as many of the cardboard homes in these areas didn't hold up. 
Under the direction of Mrs. Langford, the group produced fifty­four handmade gifts for our favorite orphanage, "Nuestros Pequenos Hermanos Y Hermanas," located just outside the city. In addition to a clothing drive, a few of us have spent some time at the closet branch, where 600 boys and girls and reared and taught from kindergarten to sixth grade. Basically, love and attention is all these polite young people want. At the orphanage, we eat plenty of rice, tortillas, and beans, because that is the extent of food served. 
The role of the Notre Dame student in Mexico, then, is certainly to learn Spanish. study in a new environment, appreciate the Mexican culture, and maybe even do some traveling. But I would hope we can do something more. For here Notre Dame students have the unlimited opportunity to exhibit their Christianity, that is, to serve their fellow man. And maybe we can bring back to "Gringolandia" the realization that we of the United States have too much of everything, while the rest of the world is hungry. 
• ~· ,.. ,· .-1"1,...._....~..rJ_...-~......-~·~· •• ...~~· .. • ..· ..• ...........·' 

.... J'~ \I ... •-:• ,~. ·~ ..t c-·:0 ~ 
I 
........... . ·. •. ~ ... . . .......""" .......................... 

::,'. ••. ,, • I, ;,·.-.·,,:},ues~~~· ,.A.I;If;l, ~.of J?~~. •I ;• ; • ' v If'n ,-·.y .J.h.tti .o,bs er..Y~I;' ·. '9
H 

Spring lever warms up duLac 

The impossible made probable •••• Engineering students from universities around the country raced last Saturday on St. Joe Lake in unusual craft: semingly unfloatable canoes made of concrete and metal. In the first photo, enthusiastic rowers paddle furiously to take an early lead in one of the races. In the second, though not a battle for the winner's circle (The University of Toronto took this race, along with the rest of the meet), entries from the University of Chicago and Penn State fight for second as Youngstown State engineers trail. Needless to say, there were no problems with hulls warping in the water. (Photo by Joseph Abell} 

Thursday, May 2 at 8:00 
Tickets are $6.00 and $4.00 NOW ON SALE at the 'ACC Box Office and Student Union Ticket Office. 
WITH THE GAP BAND 

Nearly the entire student body of Sr. Milrita's PrimAry Day School couldn't hide from the fun of a dulac picnic last Saturday afternoon. Nearly 60 of the elementary­school age children were treated to a clay of hot dogs, lemonade and Irish sunshine by Notre Dame.and St. Mary's student volunteers. This youngster, after a visit to the Dillon Hall Carnival, had more than a ball with the other kldgs on the An Tostal field and around St. Mary's Lake. (Photo by Joseph Abell) 

GO IRISH! 

Is there a bowl game in your future? Answer: Yes Where: Orange Bowl, perhaps 
If you decide to go there, consider reservations now, avoid later disap­pointment. Fly, drive or train to Miami, December 27, Board the SS FLAVIA for exciting 3-Day Cruise to Nassau. Return to Miami, 3 nights hotel, Orange Bowl Football Ticket includes. A Great Package. 
Write for brochure today! Limited space available. Robertson Travel Post Inc. 2732 CAHABA Road Mountain Brook, Alabama 35223 Our 11th year of Bowl Travels 
.. 
j 

Tuesday;• 'Aptil '31,1 1974 ••.•. '·' · 
Universal Notre Dame Night 
Alumni everywhere host ND speakers 
by Tom Russo Staff Reporter 

Universal Notre Dame Night, a program of the Alumni Office whi~h sends speakers from the University to Notre Dame Alumni Clubs around the world, is taking place at over 100 Alumni Clubs during these three weeks following Easter. The official date was set for April 22nd. 
Mike Jordan, Assistant Director of the Alumni Association, ex· plained that llniversal Notre Dame Night was established in 1924 by John H. Neeson (Class of 1903), then President of the Alumni Association. It was designed as an annual occasion on which Notre Dame Club could call to the at­tention of their communities the many phases of the University other than athletic. '1'h1s was the epoch during which the "Four Horseman" were making Notre Dame athletics so famous that Notre Dame's academic character was overshadowed. 
"Each year we send University Trustees, administrators from all offices, several faculty members, coaches and members of the Athletic Department, and nationally known alumni to each of our Alumni Clubs which wish to participate in the program", said Jordan. "Students are sent as co­speakers to nearby clubs in the Midwest." 
Jordan said that the requested speakers volunteer their time to deliver these speeches because they realize the important function it serves for the University. The students involved are members of the Student-Alumni Relations Group, composed of 18 students who assist the Alumni Office in various programs. 
"For example", said Jordan, "we have Coach Ara Parseghian as well as Dean Shaffer of the Law School delivering these talks to the Alumni Clubs." 
Jordan's job is to coordinate these activities and to lay out logical itineraries for the speakers. 

Each year a theme is suggested for these talks. The 1974 theme, "The Future of Notre Dame", concerns the Report by the Committee on University Priorities (COUP) completed earlier this year. The speakers are free to criticize and to emphasize their own areas of interest. 
Jordan explained that these meetings can create a "public impact" which will emphasize to the public the academic progress of the Univeristy. "Of course, a 
Next year's editor for Blue Mantle announced 
by Pattie Cooney St. Mary's Editor 
Patti Lurel, a St. Mary's junior from Islip, New York, has been appointed Editor-in -Chief of the Blue Mantle yearbook. Lurel succeeds senior Judy Moore in thio position. 
One of the new features planned is to have senior portraits in color. As a result, some senior pictures will be taken beginning Thursday, May 2. Among those whose pic­tures will be taken are . juniors who will be student teaching in the fall. education-majors, and those in med tech, Lurel explained. 

"We're taking bids from various publishing companies. As of now a contract has not been signed. We anticipate a large budget which will enable us to incorporate a lot of special effects in the book," commented Lurel. 
Lurel is assisted by Peggy Lawlor, Senior Editor, Ellen Gerrity and Patty Abell as lay-out editors, Katie Ryan, copy editor and business managers Ellie Quinn and Mary Alice Conway. 
Anyone interested in working on yearbook, may call 4802. 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's students helped raise $6800 in pledges for the "Ride a Bike for the Retarded" Bike-a-thon Sunday. Over 200 ND-SMC st11dents were directly involved as riders. The total amount pledged was estimated at nearly $40,000 with 3500 riders involved in all. 
Jay Niederman, chairman of the committee in charge of the Bike-a-thon, commented, "I would like to thank those responsible for our success: nameiy, the NROTC, Mr. Stark's Swim Team, the Volunteers for the Retarded at Logan's Center who served as Hall Representatives, and finally, the riders themselves." 
Riders are urged to collect the pledges in envelopes and submit them to either their Hall Representative, or Jay Niederman at 139 Lyons Haii.(Photo by Zenon Bidzlnskll _ Thomas O'Neil 




Today 
12 noon to ??? 
concrete measure of success is impossible to calculate", he remarked. 
Jordan also made some enlightening comments con­cerning the alumni in general. 
"I think Notre Dame athletics tends to unify the alumni", com­mented Jordan. "They don't forget the academic nature of the University, but it is less visible to them after they've graduated." 
"The alumni have been much better organized since 1967", said Jordan. "The Alumni Board has been established as well as an 
.. 
Alumni Senate. Neither of these bodies has any legislative power, but they do concern themselves with probelms current to the University and give advice to the Administration." 
"However, it seems that the role the alumni play in forming the policies of this University is sometimes overestimated by students. Although alumni con­tributions must be kept in mind as a realistic factor in planning, I think many alumni would laugh at the influence often attributed to them," Jordan noted. 

NOW RENTING c one·and two bedroom -A furnished apartments 
Featuring:M + SWIMMING POOL p + COMMUNITY BUILDING 
+ 2 BATHS IN THE 2 BEDROOM U' APARTMENTS 
+ AIR CONDITIONING
s 

+ 
DISHWASHER 

+ 
RANGE 



v 
+ REFRIGERATOR 
+ GARBAGE DISPOSAL I + TENNIS COURT 
+ LOCATION: 3 BLOCKS FROM
E 
CAMPUS! 

"APARTMENTS WITH
w 

THE STUDENT IN MIND " 
call 232-5853 for rental information or visit crestwood management company 3012 east edison road, south 
h . 

The Observer is now taking applications for· 
Assistant Advertising Manager 
This is a paid position 
5 days per week 
7 hours per day 
excellent position for spouse of student inform ation call 7 471 between 10 & 5 
Tuesday, 'April· 30, 1974, .. the observer 1 1 

MSU sweeps Irish baseballers 
by John Higgins Michigan State pitcher Steve VanderLaan had the rhythm Sunday afternoon, and it proved to be a funeral march for the Notre Dame baseball team when it travelled to East Lansing for a twinbill. VanderLaan, a 6'4" senior who plays the organ for the Spartans' home hockey games, proved he could intimidate the visitors on the diamond as well as on the ice as he spaced nine hits for a 5-2 win and a 
sweep of the doubleheader. Fresh­man Jim Kniivila rock-and-rolled his way to a 3-o far-hitter in the opener to outduel Irish hurler Kevin Fanning, enjoying one of his best days of the season on the mound as he yielded but six hits to the hard-hitting Spartans. 
Both Fanning and nightcap starter Mitch Stoltz pitched well enough to win on just about any other day, but the Irish bats were stifled in uncharacteristic fashion throughout the two-game set. Jake Kline's mound corps has been lacking in consistency, depth and badly overworked in a tiring 21­game schedule the past three weeks, but Fanning and Stoltz showed otherwise on Sunday only to be betrayed by the offense for lack-of-support. 

,Fanning's only bad inning provided Michigan State with all its runs in the first game. Cleanup hitter Amos Hewitt opened the second with a triple that bounced over Pete Clemens' head in right and he was immediately wild­pitched home for the game's first 
Women row to Midwest 
The Notre Dame women's lightweight eight powered its way to victory in the Midwest Cham­pionship Regatta Saturday onLake Wingra in Madison, Wisconsin. The race was dominated by the ND girls who had a one-length lead after only twenty strokes and widened their margin all the way down the 1000 meter course. 
Stroke Maggie Rietman took the girls off the starting line at 30 strokes per minute, then settled to a strong, low 32 as the lightweights quickly buried University of Minnesota and Minneapolis Boat Club. There was no need for coxswain Geri Lopez to call for the customary sprint at the end of the race, as Notre Dame (3:48.5) was 19.3 seconds ahead of second place Minneapolis (4:07.8) and 26 ahead of Minnesota (4:14.8). 
Mari Gumble and Beth Corbin were the bow pair in the cham­pionship crew, while Cindy Buescher, Cathy _Comerford, Mary Fitzsimmons, and Shotsi cain made up the Engine Room, 
and  Marilyn Crimmins rowed  
seven seat.  
. 

Stickmen w1n 
by George Eckes 

With Paul Rizzo and Rick Caron both scoring twice, the Notre . D arne Lacrosse Club demolished Detroit Saturday, 11-3. 
In addition to Rizzo's and caron's heroics, Joe Meares had a goal and assist. The stickmen dominated the game so much that sorne defensemen, who never had the opportunity previously this season, got their chance to shoot. p oopsie Bauchman and Bill Foley each made the most of his op­portunity by tallying one. 
Foley's was particularly im­
pressive. Bill took the faceoff, raced down the field. and slammed the balllefthanded past the Detroit goaltender. 
Two games remain for the Irish. Notre Dame travels to the Windy City to meet Chicago on Saturday before returning to bring down the curtain for this year against Bowling Green on May 5 at 2 p.m. 
Next year's squad will lose only six seniors, but unfortunately, two of them are the co-captains, George Carberry and Geoff Lyden, leaving Coach Rich O'Leary a big hole in the defensive allignment. 
Elections for next season's of­ficers will take place later week. 
ATTENTION OFF CAMPUS RENTERS 
House at 810 E. Napolean, 2 blocks from stoplight. 5 bedrooms, 1&1-2 baths. 
For fall. Call before May 
12, 287-7818. 
Also, 2 houses for sum­
mer 
' --11 "• 111 ren~·~1 11r "'1 , . ' -·;~.f I
"' ; • r "1 ,., . ...:.!· 

''• ~4 "•.. " .. ., '•, '·.. ", • •, ", ...........", "," ____ ... •, c...,~"'"}: 
tally. Howard Schryer followed with a single, AI Weston walked, and designated-hitter Dale Frietch did his duty with an RBI single. After Frietch was forced at second, ninth-place hitter Chris Gerard ended the scoring, chasing Weston home on a fielder's choice. 
Fanning settled down after that, allowing only three harmless singles in going the route, but the Irish failed to connect when it counted, stranding nine base runners. The most opportune moment came in the fifth when DH Mike O'Neill doubled, but he was nailed trying to take third on Jim Smith's grounder to-short. The Irish also threatened in the seventh on Smith's single and two walks to load the bases but could not crack the goose egg as Kniivila upped his season slate to 4-2. 
In the second game, Notre Dame could again manage no more than a hit an inning for the first six frames before ending the drought in the seventh with three hits for both runs off VanderLaan. Ken Schuster, Dick Nussbaum and Pete Schmidt leaded the bases with infield singles in the day's final stanza, and Tom Hansen's grounder and Pat Coleman's fly out produced the twin scores which were just too little, but way too late. 
Stoltz, who has yet to win this season, was bumped for three hits and tworuns in the Spartan second and was the victim of three unearned tallies in the fourth. 

Frietch, who caught the second 
game after going 2-for-3 in the 
opener, was again the batting star 
for the Spartans and played a key 
role in both fruitful innings. In the 
second, Frietch drove home 
Weston with a two-bagger after 
two were out and scored himself on 
Larry Romaine's single. And in 
the fourth, following two Jim 
Smith errors at shortstop, the big 
catcher hit the first of four con­
secutive singles which sent Notre 
Dame five runs in arrears. 
Irish captain Tom Hansen went 

three-for-eight in the twinbill to up 
his team-leading average to .365, 
and his RBI broke a tie with Smith 
for run-producing ~onors at 19. 
Pat Coleman is hitting at a .337 
pace despite being blanked Sun­
day, andMarkSchmitz is currently 
at an even .300. Pete Clemens and 
Mike O'Neill had one hit apiece in 
both contests and Ken Schuster 
went 2-for-3 after sitting out the 
first game. 
1 
Michigan State, winning six 

games over the weekend now has 
an 18-10 record while the Irish 
dipped to 11-2. Yesterday's game 
with Valparaiso was cancelled, 
and the Irish next play host to 
Bowling Green for a pair on 
Wednesday at 1 p.m. Schedule: 
May 3--a doubleheader at 

Western Michigan; May 4-Marian 
University at Cartier at 11:30 
a.m.; and hom~ doubleheaders, 
back-to-hack, against Detroit and 
Northwestern, May 5th and 6th, 
both starting at 1 p m 
In the heavyweight varsity race, Notre Dame's heavies finished last behind Wisconsin, Washington State, Purdue, Kansas State, Nebraska and Washburn. The heavies were beat at the start and never managed to get back in the 
race. · The Midwest Championship was the girl's last race of the season, having lost to Princeton, Boston U., and Barnard in one race and Nebraska in their only home race. A Notre Damefour, however,also defeated Holy Trinity in New York City. In men's competition, defending national champion Wisconsin dominated, winning every event they entered. Head Coach Gavin 

Viano's frosh looked good for the first 1000 meters placing third, but couldn't hold on, finishing sixth in a pack of seven. 
The ND lightweight men rowed well, beating rival Purdue, but still only came up with third place out of five in a very close race that saw the fifth place crew only 8.4 seconds behind winning Washington State. . 
The women's heavyweight eight didn't fare quite as weH as their lightweight counterparts, taking fifth, behind two Wisconsin crews, Minnesota and Nebraska. 
The men race this week at Marietta, and finish their season the following week in Philadelphia at the Dad Vail Regatta. 

12 the observer Tuesday, April 30, 1974 
~~--~~~~~~~------------­

Broke's choice -college or pro? 
by Greg Corgan Sports Editor 
This is indeed the season for rumors. And the story surrounding Gary 
Brokaw may be the first toblossom ,or at least the first to be told. 

Ever since John Shumate decided that he would pass up another year of eligibility in favor of playing pro ball, the attention has shifted to Brokaw, and speculation has been widespread. 
"Yes, I have applied for hardship," said the junior guard from New Brunswick, New Jersey, "but the primary reason I have is to open up an option. This is the only way I can bargain with both the NBA and ABA this year, by applying for hardship." 

''The other reason is that I'd like to help out my family. It's not like 
we're in a ghetto area or not eating everyday, but it's just that I'd like to 
provide my family with some degree of financial security." 

The fact that Brokaw applied for hardship pertains only to cir­
cumstances in the NBA. In order for an NBA team to draft an un­
derclassman, the player must file for hardship and have his case 
reviewed and accepted by the National Basketball Association. If that 
happens, the player is then eligible for the draft. 
After submitting his name, however, a player has until a week after the 

:'-!BA playoffs are over to withdraw his name from consideration. If he 
fails to do so, whether he is drafted or not, that player isineligiblefrom any 
further collegiate competition. 
The ABA however, doesn't even bother with a hardship clause as 
evidenced by the fact that Gary was drafted by the New York Nets. 
''I'd like to listen to the terms the Nets have to offer," explained Broke. 
"I'd like to play in the East, close to home, and Brian Taylor of the Nets is 
one of my best friends. Of course money is definitely one of the factors. 

I've wanted to play pro ball for as long as I can remember, but also this 
will put my family in a position where they are financially secure for the 
rest of their lives. 

· "But I'm just going to listen to what people have to say. I haven't made 
any big decisions yet. I just don't feel that I can look past certain op­
portunities. As of yet though, I haven't heard anything from the Nets." 
Gary's situationis quite dissimilar from that of Shumate. Brokaw, should he decide to turn pro, would leave Notre Dame without a degree. 
"I came to the university with two goals in mind-playing pro basketball 
and getting my degree. Right now, I have one of those goals within reach 
and I may not be able to pass it up. 

"I'd like to come back and get my degree and try to win that national 
championship that got away from us this year. Even though we lost Shu, 
I think we have a good chance at it. This is all a big decision for me." 
Itmay mean a lot for Digger Phelps too, as well as his team. 

"Digger's for an athlete getting that degree first and then going on to pro ball," continued Broke, "and when I told him what I had in mind it was quite a blow to him. But he respects my decision, and they've offered me legal services and anything I might need if I decide to go pro. 
"Most of my friends realize what my goals and ambitions have been 
since I came here, and I know they're going to back me all the way." 

Whatever the eventual result Gary already has the confidence that he 
can make it as a pro. 

"Ifeel that I'm ready for pro ball right now, especially mentally. The 
toughest thing about playing professional basketball is the mental aspect 
involved, and personally I think I'm ready." 

"But I have until the first week after the playoffs to pull my name, and I and when you read this, there will be 19. It seems that went much further. They spread into tennis andhaven't decided yet. It's something I've done a lot of thinking about and September 1, 1970 was only yesterday, but if it was, Buster Brown. They spread into track and urgedplan to do a lot more." 
why is it so difficult to remember and write about? home Mike Gahagan in the CCC's 1000-yard run.
Right now Brokaw is playing a clever little game, reminiscent of his There have been many memories crowded into They were there when Mike Fanning wrestled, for performance on the basketball court this past year. 
these four years -for myself and other graduating Jake's 500th win, for that exciting 14-13 controversialIf, for instance, the Nets offer him big money, Broke will have the seniors. These memories have included such events win over then undefeated Wayne State in fencing, forchance to bargain between the two leagues. If the Nets decide not to and persons as Watergate, Nixon, Vietnam and the the come-from behind heroics against Drake in trackoffer Brokaw a lucrative contract, Gary can simply wait until next year Middle East, but those which we are likely to and coach Dennis Stark's 100th carreer swimmingand bargain again. The key to the whole situation lies in the necessity remember happened on this campus just south of 1-win.
that Broke receive an offer-from the Nets before he must decide whether 80. And typically of me, these memories of Notre These are just a few of the athletic memories or not to withdraw his name from NBA hardship •consideration. 
Dame are athletic in nature. Jimmy and I were able to list, and while there areIf he gets the money he thinks he's worth from the Nets, then the NBA Jim Farrington, Tom Hansen and myself have been many others, Tom would probably concur.
should counter with a comparable package. 

employed at the University's Sports Information The people we've met frequently coincided, butIt might be an offer he can't refuse. 
Department for the past years, and as we are leaving each probably influenced us in a different way. 
together, we have shared many highlights. Therefore. this part of the column is strictly my own. 
Frequently, we were there when a big sports story Notre Dame is what it is because of the people she 
was breaking, and just as frequently, we were there employs. I've met many wonderful persons here, too 
Ruggers lose to Chicago 

when Notre Dame made the headlines, especially this many to list. But because of my athletic affiliations, year. those of the classroom and hall -professors, priests 
by Bob Kissel 

defeated the Lions 12-6. After the Jimmy and I sat in the office yesterday pondering and students alike -will have to go unmentioned. 
Saturday's rugby game against first half ended in a these highlights, and we did have much difficulty Still, they deserve a thankyou for their friendship and the Chicago Lions was the final scoreless tie, the Lions came back trying to remember some of them. Of course, it was guidance. home contest of the spring season quickly for six points early in the easy to list our top four, for obvious reasons -the And so do those at the Observer-Vic, Tom, Jerry, for the Irish. The game will be second :stanza. The Irish dug in Sugar Bowl, the two UCLA games and the destruction Greg, Peg and all the rest. Some of my happiest difficult to forget for the seniors, and began to fight back, of A.D. Davis. It took us some time however, to hours here were spent on the second floor of along with the rest of the Notre finally scgring the equalizer on a prepare the following list. LaFortune. 
Dame ruggers. The Notre Dame try by· :Dave "Woodstock" Ward In addition to Alabama and Southern Cal, there It is the same in the athletic department. The ''A" squad lost to the Chicago and the conversion kick by John were other games on the gridiron which we will coaches and administrators in addition to their Lions "A" 22-0. Mcintyre. Again the scoring duo remember (but in some cases try to forget). Who assistants and secretaries are just as down-to-earth 
The Irish had the wind to their of Ward and Mcintyre teamed for: will forget our first home game against Purdue in a as anyone you would hope to meet. They command backs in the first half, but were not the winning points to put ND out in driving rain? Or watching on television the first USC your respect, for sure, but being a part of Notre Dame able to use it to a scoring ad-front for good. game, played in a quagmire? And how about the as they are, they respect you. \'antage. Notre Dame was "We handled the set serums and Cotton Bowl victory and the Missouri defeat? All thesefriendshipswould have never occurred if I awarded four penalty kicks in the lineouts very well," explained new And besides the two UCLA encounters, how about had not been able to work in the Sports Information first half, but got no closer to three team captain Larry Casey. "Our the final Dayton basketball game as freshmen, Office. In addition to Jim and Tom, I had the points that an attempt bouncing off backs came up enough to throw off numerous Flyer shots failing at the buzzer? Or the pleasure to meet and work with Mike Hansen, Terry the crossbar. their defensive reaction, which 92-29 shellacking at Indiana? And what about the Madden, and this year, a pair of dynamos, Rick 
The Lions did not win by virtue of opened up many holes." making of a legend -the Iceman comething -Odioso and John Vincent. bad Irish play however. The The Irish "C" squad lost to the against Marquette and Pittsburgh? Or the disaster of The secretaries -Lois, Pat, Sherri and Norma -are Chicago club, stocked with ex­Chicago Lions team 24-10. two buzzer shots in the NIT final? four of lthegreatest gals I've ever met. Not only were perienced foreigners and The regular spring season is Hockeybroughtme, in particular, similar theatrics, they willing to type your term papers, but they also Americans, was able to control over for the Notre Dame ruggers, both high and low. How man'y of us have seen Mark showed a willingness to listen to you gripe everyday. both the set and loose serums. This but the Midwest Championships in Krohholm's four shutouts? Who can forget the Caring isn't just a word to them; it is a way of life. 
Green Bay still remain.

control gave the Lions the quick pasting of then number-one Michigan State back in Still, after all these friendships, there are two out pass to their backs, opening "We definitely have some scores 1973? The Wisconsin sweep that same season gave more, the most important ones I've had here. scoring chances. to settle," added captain Masenga. the Irish a chance for second place, and after they wouldn't trade anything in the world for the friend­
"We played a dumb game," "Despite our loss to the Lions, gained it, these same Badgers prevented Notre Dame ship and guidance I've received from Roger commented team captain Tom we'll be up for the two-day tour­by one goal from going to Boston and the NCAA's. Valdiserri and his assistant Bob Best. Not only have Masenga, "but that's not why we . ney." Certainly, the optimism of this season was killed by they allowed me the opportunity to learn a craft, but lost. The Lions just outplayed us So the Irish take to the road for the inconsistency of its play, but the final victory (to also given me a sense of my future, of what I want to and showed that they are a better playoff action, hoping for revenge-­gain a playoff spot) provided another thrill (and be. rugby club." expecially against the Lions and hangover). Regarding this last sentence, isn't this what Notre 
The Notre Dame "B" team fared Ohio State, their only losses this For many of us, the memories and accompanying Dame tries to do -to give you a sense of your future? better with Chicago as they spring. spirit stop there. But for this trio of seniors, they I guess I've been lucky. 





