
OD The Inside 
Halberstam's speech •.. pg 3 Future concerts .•.pg 2 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community

Vol. IX, No. 39 
Sets frosh schedule 

Acade:mic Council delays surcharge 
by Jim Donathen Staff Reporter 

The Academic Council voted yesterday to delay implementation of course overload surcharges until fall semester 1975. The sur­charges scheduled to take effect next semester, were delayed because of technical difficulties, said Jim Ambrose, student government academic commissioner. . 
In other action, the Council approved a ":lore flexible Freshmen Year of Studies program by a 36-13 margm. The proposal, sub­mitted by the University Committee for the Freshman ~ear of Studies reduces the number of required courses, allowmg the choice ~f three electives during the freshman y~ar. . 
The rationale behind the overload surcharge IS to discourage students who sign up for extra courses and later d~op them. Following much debate last April and May, the Council app:oved surcharges for arts and letters and science students e:cceedmg 17 hours and for business and engineering students exceedmg 18 hours per semester. . . . 
Yesterday's move to postpone implimentation WI11 g!ve University Provost James T. Burtchaell tii?e t~ study l;ll~ernative methods of controlling over-enrollment, said DICk Conklm, Notre Dame public information director. 
three electives for freshmen 

Next fall, freshmen will take four or five courses to~lling at le~st 15 credits and either physical education or R.O.T.C. With the option of freshman colloquim. . . 
The courses will include two courses in the ~umamties, t_wo courses in mathematics, two courses in natural science or fore~gn language, one course in social science ?r his~ory and_ three elective courses. The new program is compatible WI~ c~nculums ?f ~e four colleges and will not require modification of existing curruculums. 
The freshman committee proposal states: 
"It should enable the undecided or insecure freshman ,to sample 
areas of possible interest before bec?ming involved in a sharp!~ 
directed curriculum or making commitment to a long range goal. 
"Nevertheless, it should also permit those freshmen who a~e 
secure in their long range goals to embark upo!l an academic 
program which in their freshman year would provide a good start 
towards the realization of those goals." 
The 1975 freshman schedule will be: 
First Semester 
composition and literature or freshman seminar 
mathematics 
natural science or 
foreign language 
social science-history or elective 

elective Second Semester freshman seminar or composition and literature mathematics natural science or foreign language elective or social science-history elective "The major issue is who has authority over the Freshman Year Program, and they didn't answer the question," emphasized the student government academic commissioner. Ambrose said several colleges offered amendments which WOIIld have given them more control over freshman year curriculum. 
basic requirements the same 

Professor Frederick J. Crosson, dean of the College of Arts and Letters proposed that foreign language should remain a requirement for freshmen arts and letters intents. 
Under the new Freshman Program of Studies, students will be 
(continued on page 2) 


The University Academic Council, meeting in closed session yesterday, voted to make freshman schedules more flexible. Starting next fall, freshmen will be able to take electives they would otherwise not have until they became upperclassmen. 
Tuesday, October 22, 1974 


The panel composed of Liz Carpenter, Jill Ruckleshaus, 'John Brademas, Howard Glickstein and Robert DuComb, advocated the ratific~tion of the Equal Rights Ammendment by the Indiana Senate next January 13. 
"Tonight we write history in Indiana," stated Car­penter, former press secretary for Mrs..~yndon Johnson and moderator for the Indiana Coalition for the Equal Rights Ammendment. 
"The Indiana legislature and how it performs next year is going to determine whethe_r we can go into 1976 with the country to grant equality to all people, or whether the country moves forward without Indiana/' she said. 
She noted that previously the U.S. Congress over­whelmingly passed the ERA legislation, l~d by Indiana Senator Birch Bayh in the Senate "Smce then, 33 states have ratified the amendment," she said. "We need 5 more states to bring the amendment into law." 
Carpenter pointed out that the Indiana House passed the legislation once "and is all set to do it ag~in." She urged the audience to prompt the Indiana Senate to complete ratification of the amendment. 
In the absence of Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, the director of the Center for Civil Rights, Dr. Howard Glickstein, read the following prepared statement: 
"Ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment would demonstrate that we are a nation truly committed to equality. Ratification of the constitutiona~ amendm~nt would go far toward insuring that sex, bke other Im­mutable and irrelevant characteristics, plays no part in determining individual worth or opportunity. 
"Women should have to wait no longer for an end to sex discrimination. They must not be forced to rely on uncertain case by case litigation for the fulfillment of their rights. Nor should men be denied any longer benefits that the elimination of discrimination based on sex will bring to them. 
Constitutional Aspects of ERA Glickstein discussed the constitutional aspects of the ERA. "Many people who oppose the ERA suggest first that we can expand the perpetuation of equal protection under the 14th Amendment and by doing that, eliminate sex discrimination in our society." Glickstein contended the Supreme Court has been very restrictive in its interpretations of that amend­ment. He stated that he did not believe the 14th amendment could be expanded to cover all areas involving sex discrimination or that changing state statutes would compensate. "Some hope was felt in 1964 when the Civil Rights Act was passed and included sex, it bans employment discrimination. But of course that provision has been limited to more or lessons fact of life, employment, and also it doesn't completely cover that fact. By passing a constitutional amendment, we will accomplish in one sweeping effort the elimination of discriminatory practices from the very day that amendment becomes effective," he said. "The amendment provides that it will not go into effect for two years and this should offer ample time for state legislatures and the federal congress to make necessary adjustments," he said. 
Psychological Aspects Jill Ruckelshaus, former White House consultant on Women's Organizations, stressed recognition of a need for, and widespread support for, the ERA in Indiana. "The psychological impact of the ERA may be just as important as the legal implications," she said. The change in our laws will change behavior, and even­tually changing attitudes. These are psychological barriers to women which are just as vicious to our full development as individuals as legal liberties." (continued on page 6) 
Mitchell uses taped testimony to prove Nixon's guilt in court 
WASHINGTON (UPI) Richard M. Nixon told John N. Mitchell in the spring of last year "to stonewall it . . . coverup or anything else" to save his administration from the Water­gate scandal, according to taped testimony played in court Monday. 
The former president's voice came through clearly on the fifth White House tape played at the cover-up trial of Mitchell and four other Nixon aides accused of conspiracy in the plot. 
"I don't give a --what happens," Nixon told Mitchell toward the end of a March 22, 1973, meeting at his hideaway office in the Executive Office Building. 
"I want you all to stonewall 1t, let them plead the 5th Ammendment, cover up or anything else, if it'll save it ­save the plan, that's the whole point." · Defense lawyers objected to the Nixon-Mitchell discussion being introduced as evidence since former White House 

counsel John W. Dean IIi ---Qn the witness stand at the time ­was not present for that part of the meeting. But U.S. District Judge John Sirica overruled the objections and ordered the tape be played. 
"We're going to protect our people if we can," Nixon told Mitchell. 
The meeting was the last of a series of March 21-22 of last year as the Watergate cover-up began to unravel and the President and his men strove to stem the tide. 
Key White House aides John 
D. Ehrlichman and H.R. Haldeman -also on trial for the cover-up -were also present at the session with Nixon, Mitchell and Dean. They were leaning toward issuing a report absolving the White House of any complicity but Dean was advocating a fuller disclosure of the facts. 
"You think, you think we want to, want to go this route now?" Nixon asked. 
"And the -let it hang out, so 
to speak?" "Well, it's, it really isn't that," Dean . started to reply. "It's a limited hang out," Haldeman broke in. "It's a limited hang out," Dean agreed. "It's -a modified limited hang out," Ehrlichman said. 
"Well," said Nixon, "it's only the question of the thing hanging out publically or privately." 
"What it's doing, Mr. Presi­dent, is getting you up above and away from it," said Dean. "And that's the most important thing." 
Just before Dean left the 
meeting, Nixon spoke highly of 
him. 
Tomorrow's Observer will be the last before 
break ... 



...r --2-----------------------------------­
, 
t 
~ 
the observer Tuesday, October 22, 1974 
warld briefs 
LOS ANGELES <UPI)-Jack Benny's condition Monday was describved as "good" at Cedars of Lebanon Hospital where the domedian is undergoing tests for fatigue and dizziness. 
SAN JOSE, Calif. <UPH-Farm labor leader Cesar Chaves will have to give up his union activity and stay in the hospital for an indefinite period because of a back problem, his doctor said Monday. 
TUBAC, Ariz. <UPH-President Ford spent an exhilarating day with tumultuous welcomes south of the border, but in a "steaight talk" meeting with Mexican President Luis Echeverria Monday he got not assurance Mexcio would give the United States any preference on purchase of its new oil discovereies. 
TUCSON, Ariz. <UPI)-&lying a U.S.-8oviet emigration agreement was "widely misunderstood," President Ford denied Monday that Moscow had pledged to let a specific number of Jews and dissident citizens emigrate each year in return for better U.S. trade status. 
White House spokesman Ron Nessen, speaking for Ford, said 
reports that Soviet officials had agreed to a minimum 60,000 
emigrations per ear were wrong. He said the Soviet Union's 
promise to relax its emigration policies was phrased in general 
terms rather than specific numbers. 
DUBLIN <UPI>-Imprisoned English heiress Dr. Brigid Rose Dugdale, 32, Monday was ordered to stand trial on charges stemming from an abortive helicopter bombing raid on a Northern Ireland police station on Jan. 24. 
Miss Dugdale already is serving a nine-year sentence for her part in a multimilliondollar art theft from the County Wicklow home of diamond millionaire Sir Alred Beit April 26. 
Miss Bugdale remained silent during the five-minute hearing which set a trial date of Nov. 25. 
NEW YORK <UPI)--Cuban Premier Fidel Castro said in an in­terview taped with the CBS Television network that he was willing to negotiate resumption of diplomatic relations with the United States if the economic embargo was lifted. 
MOSCOW <UPI)-Police have been to a number of factores, of­fices and schools to warn women and children that a psychopathic killer is on the prowl in Moscow, Soviet sources said Monday. 
WASHINGTON <UPH-A federal judge Monday temporarily barred former President Richard M. Nixon from transferring his White House tapes and documents to California, but granted him sole access to them~xcept for subpoenaed material-while their future is determined. 
an c:ampus taday 
12-5 pm "eugene atget travelling show" moreau-main gallery 
12-9 pm "recent drawings," sr. cecelia ann kelly moreau-hammes 
gallery 
12-9 pm "watercolors!", gertrude harbart moreau-photo gallery 
5 pm evenson vespers log chapel 
8 & 10 pm cinema '75 "81h"eng. aud. 
8 pm meeting and film nd backpackers and climbers lc Iafortune 
8pm charismatic prayer meeting holy cross(nd) old cafeteria 
Business department plans studeflt-faculty picnic Sat. 
by Thomas O'Neil In case of rain, students and Staff Reporter faculty members are asked to 
assemble in the lobby of the Hayes-The Business Activities Council Healey Building . will be sponsorir,g a picnic for all .,..,·-··~ 
faculty and student members of the Business College this Saturday preceding the football game. The picnic will be held in front of the Hayes-Healey Building at 11 a.m. 
Abox lunch and beverage can be purchased at the picnic for one dollar, while a band, Tailsman, will be featured for entertainment. 
"Our goal is to provide a casual social atmosphere for business students and faculty members," Joseph Henry chairman of the Business Activities Council commented. "This is the first time the Business College has at­tempted such a get-together. We encourage all members of the College to participate." 
The Activities Council consists of five student members. The responsibility of the council is to promote various social and academic activities within the College. The Council has at­tempted to coordinate students needs with the faculty desires, including course modifications, changes in conflicting schedules, 
and student-faculty gatherings. 
~ 

TW"o .more rock concertsplanned 
by Norman Bower Staff Reporter 

Two more top rock groups have been added to this semester's already impressive concert line­up. It was announced yesterday that the Doobie Brothers and Black Oak Arkansas will wind up the season's music schedule which has thrus far included performances by Sha Na Na, Gordon Lightfoot, MacDavis and Van Morrison and which will soon feature the Jackson Five, Elton John and Yes. 
Saturday, November 23, is the date of the Doobie Brothers' ap-
New schedule 
planned for ND freshmen 
(continued from page 1) 

advised to elect courses required by the college they plan to enter in the sophomore year. The program does not alter course requirements established by the individual colleges. 
Several professors in the science department expressed fear that freshmen would misinterpret the 
new program and fail to elect 
science courses needed to enter a 
sophomore science major. For example, a freshmen arts 
and letters intent who chooses six hours of natural science does so with the understanding he must take six hours of foreign language 
later in his college career. Fresh-· : 
men planning to enter one of the science departments will choose the science of that department. 
One major change involves the choice of mathematics courses. The mathemati~s courses chosen 
by a freshman will depend not only upon the student's tentative plan
for the sophomore year but also upon the student's background. Although a freshman expecting to enter science of engineering is required to achieve a proficiency in mathematics equivalent to Math 125 and 126, alternative courses will be offered to students with potential who lack the necessary background. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the ~tudent~ of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary'~ College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S9 per semester IS16 per year) from ·The Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second cla~s postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
ATTENTION GIRLS 
(GUYS TOO) 10% OFF ON ALL WINTER CLOTHING WITH THIS COUPON ALSO SPECIAL SKI PACKAGES 


pearance. This concert, which will help highlight the Air Force weekend, will begin at 8:00p.m. in the ACC. 
Just in time for finals will be the coneert by Black Oak Arkansas on Tuesday, December 17. Detailed information and tickets will not be available until after the mid­semester break. 
Ticket prices for the Doobie Brothers are as follows: Floor seats and all chairs in front of the stage -$7. Front stage bleachers and rear stage chairs -$6.50. Rear 
bleachers -$6. 
Mail order tickets are now available via the ACC ticket office by sending a check to "Notre Dame Doobie Brothers Concert" along with a self-addressed stamped envelope. 
The ACC ticket window will have these tickets on sale on Monday, October 28, at 9:00 a.m. Also the Notre Dame Student Union will have a limited allotment of tickets available after the October Break. 
The Doobie Brothers became popular in the early 70's with their hit albums Toulouse Street, The Captain and Me and What Once Were Vices are Now Habits. 


r···························....................... 
•: 'IUITCH(GAN STREET :•
1YJ1 11
ADUL • 
:. T I'J'IUI:IK IJ"Drc! : 
~~~~ 

: X 2 f1L~ 
• 
1•_.., 

• X B()~ 
: ~I"'-4UU 
: • X • 


: 1316 SCXJrH MICHIGAN STREET : :e CALL 282 •• 
• ·120~ fnR INfnPAAAJ:'InN:
•••••••••••••••••••~'••~•••••.e~dw.ln ll'tl~.. 
GO IRISH! 
0 

Is there a bowl game in your future? Answer: LOOKING GOOD Where: Orange Bowl 
We need student or faculty organizers to promote the trip arrangements. Earn all or a portion of the travel costs. 
Fly, drive, or train to Miami, December 27, SS FLAVIA 3 ·day cruise to Nassau, Miami hotel 3 nights or Miami only for 3 . 4 nights. 
Writ~ ~r call for brochure today! 
L1m1tP.d space available. Robertson Travel Post Inc. 2732 CAHABA Road 
MOUNTAIN BROOK,ALABAMA T e I. ( 2 0 5) 8 7 9 -0 4 6 1 Our 12th year of Bowl Travels 
220 W. Marion -Elkhart Serving Michiana's Music Community for 25 years Special Student Discount Bring your student ID 

--~-------~-----------------~-----------'-:1
~-­
Tuesday, October 22, 1974 the observer 3
i I 
Halberstam calls for a working democracy 
by Bill Brink had secrecy, therefore we need have gone to war, we would have He summed up the effects of the created an electronic presidency. Senior Night Editor secrecy. We had to match their known the limits of the elastics of cold war by saying the office of the "TV is a great fascist in­Citing a buildup of awesomeness secrecy with our own. It became our society." presidency had used the spectre of strument. You put it out and no and power in the office of the an enormous weapon for the communism to keep its own one can argue back. You program
The President's Men

American presidency over the last president. created a mystique of domestic society in check. what you want," he said. This art twenty years, Pulitzer Prize­'the president knows'.'' He accused certain president's Halberstam then turned on to of projecting ourselves the way we winning journalist David This myth of the presidency men such as Nixon's Haldeman the role of modern technology in want to be seen has created a Halberstam called for American created in the cold war and the and Erlichman and Kennedy's the buildup of presidential power. "fradulent reality." "In no real democracy to work and balance secrecy that surrounded it was the Bundy and MacNamara of "In terms of television, technology way do you have to campaign," he out the power and sources con­beginning that led to Watergate, systematically lying to the people. has changed the whole balance of said. tributing to it. Halberstam contended. "Over a "Their only loyalty was to the politics," he said. "It has become Halberstam listed computers as 
· Halberstam addressing a crowd period of time, the kind of in­president, they had no other such a presidential vehicle." another technological weapon of of over 100 in the Library formation that should have been constituency or accountability," He said consequence of this has the presidency. "The presidentAuditorium last night, pointed to available to you and me has not he charged. been the dimunition of Congress controls a kind of pseudo­the effects of the Cold War and the been," he said. Singling out Secretary of State and the party systera which was an information which he built up in rapid growth of modern Halberstam cited pre-war Henry Kissinger as a member of essential factor in Watergate. computers, and anyone dissentingtechnology, especially television, military estimates of Vietnam as a the presidential circle who "There was no accountability to is dissenting against these great as the two main causes of the conflict that would span seven deceives the American people, their own party." "There was a~ masses of information," he said. construction of what he calls a years and involve 1 million men as Halberstam said he was not inner party of Haldemans ani:! He said a computer is no more "super presidency." the type of information that should deserving of the public trust he Erlichmans, whose only source of honest than the men who run them,
These two things "have worked have been available to the public. asked for. "Kissinger is uneasy legitimacy is the president and but it would be hard for a senator for the executive branch at the "If we had known that," he said telling the truth. He would prefer making him smile." to go against these marvelous expense of the legislative branch," 
of the estimates, "we wouldn't tolie to us." Pointing out that these men banks of information. A concerted said Halberstam "When you came out of the manipulative arts democratic effort is needed to become a super state, you have to (the J. Walter Thompson alumni balance the power of the create a super presidency.'' association) Halberstam said presidency, he said. 
television and advertising had · (continued on page 7) Began in the Cold War !LIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII: 
The 40 old :_~ CINEMA 7 5 PRESENTS I_=
year Harvard

graduate traces the beginning of _ _ 
this creation back to the 1940's and 
-­
the cold war. The threat of 
totalitarianism and communism, 
he said, caused the Congress, Federico Fellini's 
media and American people to 
abdicate their powers to the 
president, as if he alone could 
stand up to the threat. "This 1~
8 2
created a model presidency, and • = = invested in the president powers he " -= never had before." ~ A;E :: 
ha'~!~e~i~~eorr~~~:l~:; ~:~:~ ~~ . . ri_: i_= 
them," he continued. "The soviets David Halberstam warned against the "super presidency" last night. 
Speakers push for ramificationI I bF1:iplal Rights Amendment I Tuesday &Wednesday I 
by Sue Nelson Both Carpenter and Ruckleshaus servative state governments which 5 E felt that the amendment stands a
Staff Reporter feel the Federal Government 5 E
October 22 & 23 
good chance for ratification by should not infringe on the rights of 5 5"We are here for one reason -to both houses of Congress when a the state government to make its 5 Einsure that Indiana is the next new session meets on Jan 13. own decision s ' concerning its ~ ~ state to ratify the ERA." said Liz 
"The Equal Rights Amendment voters. 8 d 1Q
Carpenter, former press secretary :: a 
.s on the political agenda of "This argument just won't hold 5 0 n P . m . 5for Lady Bird Johnson and everyone today," Carpenter said. water," Mrs. Carpenter countered. 5 Emoderator for the Indiana She noted that many Women's She noted that the constitution 5 ECoalition for the Equal Rights Rights and public interest groups, itself is a limitation on the powers E 5Amendment. 
including NOW, League of Women ofthestates. Shefeltthat nogood 5 ENGINEERING AUD ECarpenter hosted a press con­Voters, and the AFL-CIO are argument against the E.R.A. E 5ference yesterday, together with lobbying in support of the amend­exists, adding, "It's 198 years E 5Jill Ruckleshaus of the Indiana ment. 
Ad $1 00
Coalition for the Equal Rights overdue, anyway." E 5 
"Our opponents must realize She called for the support of the E E
m • •

Amendment and wife of former that this is no longer an all-male, men and women of the Notre !liE Edeputy attorney Wm. Ruckleshaus all-white country, and these are Dame-St. Mary's campuses for the !liE 5in the Board Room of Lemans Hall, not all-male, all-white times,"
St. Mary's College. The con­Equal Rights Amendment and 5 5
*Patrons Free*
Mrs. Carpenter asserted. encouraged students to write their 5 5ference outlined the topics to be 
Ms. Ruckleshaus noted that the state senators in Indianapolis, HlllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllliUIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIHIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIiii
discussed at a dinner and forum major arguments against the demanding the speedy ratification rpomoting the Equal Rights amendment are those of con-of the Equal Rights Amendment .
Amendment, to be hosted by Mrs. 
Carpenter at Morris Inn last night. 
The amendment, which has 
passed the U.S. Congress, now 
needs ratification of two-thirds of 
th states to this amendment, only 
five are lacking, Mrs. Carpenter 
said. The Indiana State House of 
Representatives has already 
passed the bill, leaving only the 
state senate, which meets again on 
Jan. 1 to give a "yes" vote. 
Liz Carpenter, brought her famous Texan warmth and humor to the ERA conference being held here. 


LIVE FROM AFRICA ON BIG SCREEN CLOSED CIRCUIT TV 
WORLD HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPIONSHIP 

ALL SEATS $16.50 lt"fJ~rtJ~~SION 
TICKETS' ON SALE MAIL ORDERS TO: AT BOX-OFFICE MORRIS CIVIC AUD. 11 AM TO 5PM 211 N. MICHIGAN St 
DAILY. (EXCEPT SUN.) SO. BEND, IND. 46601 
ENCLOSE STAMPED _RETUR~ ENVELOPE 
.---'-----------------------~.....----------------------~-~ ·--·­
IIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
THE OBSERVER 
A"' INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER BUSINESS: 283-7471 

Never Again
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 NEWS: 283-1715 Tom Drape 
Marlene Zloza
Fred Graver Editor-in-Chief 
Managing Editor
Editorial Editor Terry Keeney Bob Zogas
Bob McManus News Editor Business Manager

Advertising Manaaer October 22, 1974 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 lr bill t a abey 
fram theeditar!ls desk: 
Fellow Students: 
The following proposal was made to th~~ Board of Trustees last Thursday and Friday. It was made by Pat McLaughlin, Frank Flanagan, Ann McCarry, Darlene Palma, Bob Howl, Pat Burke and myself in the interests of students now and in years to come. The proposal reads: 
We are proposing that a committee to study student life at Notre Dame be commissioned by the board of trustees. 
The purpose of this study will be to investigate and to evaluate the following areas of concern to students and their families: academics, coeducation, finances, residentiality, and student life. This study will include specific proposals for action programs conclusive to the findings. 
We propose that this committee on undergraduate priorities consist of a chairman drawn from the non-resident trustees on the student affairs committee of the Board of Trustees. Members of the committee will also be drawn from that same committee and the university in the following proportions: ten students selected by the student body president, five members of the administration chosen by the Vice President of Student Affairs, and five members of the faculty chosen by the Faculty Senate Chairman. All other members of the Student Affairs Committee will be ex officio members on the committee of un­dergraduate priorities. 
This committee will divide into five sub-committees each consisting of two studentss, one ad­ministrator, and one faculty member. The five sub­committees will then be assigned one of the above areas of concern by the chairman and report their findings to that chairman in writing. 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
We propose that all sub­committee reports be available for presentation by the chairman at a March meeting of the Student M­fairs Committee of the Board 
_of Trustees. 
A decision on implementing this Committee on Undergraduate Priorities will be given in two weeks. Presently, a clear understanding of this proposal is necessary on the part of everyone at this university. It is only with such an un­derstanding of intentions that any im­plementation of this suggestion be suc­cessful. 

As a result of the report and presen­tation to the Trustees last week, the beginning of a new approach to student life at this university may be on the horizon. The board was shown a realistic, though dim, picture of con­ditions as they now exist in the areas of coeducation, academics, finances, residentiality, and student life. 
The main thrust of the report, presentation, and proposal was to have all members of the Notre Dame com­munity--trustees, administrators, faculty and students--now confront these areas of concern. No longer need we allow the 
passage of time govern our solutions. And it is through the board of Trustees, whom the North Central Accreditation report complimented as being vitally concerned in the university that these problems be of student life will be met directly and swiftly. 
This appropach to confronting the dilemmas of student's lives has un­believable potential. Ideally, in-depth studies of each of these areas could yield affirmative programs of action to deal with each of them. At the very least, the studies could serve as a frame of reference for those problems im­mediatley plauging us. 
So far, it has been afrustrating year-a spiritless year. Any and every aspect of student life at Notre Dame is suffering. The avenues for change have been busy but not moving forward. Let tthis 

proposal serve to face everyone in one direction with the same goal of ac­complishment. 
Precisely implemented, such a study could well serve as a landmark in developing student life in years to come. The imperative nature of its adoption should · be painfully clear to all of us. 

tam drape 
TH/3 KEY 

Last summer I had a chance to visit the infamous Nazi prison 
camp at Dachau-a chilling and unforgettable experience. A 
monument there memorializes the victims of the Holocaust. 
Alongside, a series of exhibits depicts the Nazi methods of an­
nihilating the Jews-the wretched detention camps, the ex­
termination ovens, the mass graves. A huge sign proclaims in 
French, German, Russian and English: "Never Again." 
When we were leaving, one of m~ companions said to me: "We 
should transplant Dachau in the middle of America, so everyone 
there could be confronted with the lessons we've learned today." I 
remember answering him: "It's already been done; only we cail 
them Indian reservations." 
................................... 

I have to admit I was primed in a special way to recognize the 
similarities between Dachau and the treatment of the American 
Indian because I had just finished reading Dee Brown's classic 
work, Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee. Since then, however, 
I've realized how many other reminders we have of our inhumanity 
to man, reminders that we haven't really bought the policy of 
"Never Again"-Hiroshima, Kent State, Attica <are you listening, 
Rocky?), and, currently, the streets of racially-tense Boston. 
But monuments testifying to our violation of "Never Again" 
don't seem to touch us much unless they are closer tohome. And we 
!.ave them. Right on this campus we have plenty of people who give 
witness to the many ways we fail one another. They are not sc 
dramatic as those I've mentioned; but, in a way, almost as sad, 
because they are frequently so petty. The rom mate squabbles; th(. 
student who is forced to play the clown in order to be accepted; the 
one who suffers violent rejection because he is different (not 
allowed to grow, to be himself, he must conform); the woman who 
is never asked to join the group, which has become an intunred 
clique; the black student reprimanded by one of the brothers 
because she dared to say hello to a white guy who was passing by; 
the undergrad who found out the hard way that he really only had a 
date until something better came along; the women besieged with 
obscene phone calls; the football player who is ridiculed and··li 
ostracized for showing signs of tenderness and sensitivity, for not 
living up to the jock image. 
We used to have a saying in the Marines-"Semper Vi." Its polite translation was: "I'm aboard, pull up the ladder"; but what it really meant was more like: "I've got mine, to hell with everyone ·else." It's interesting that this expression comes from the Marines' motto, "Semper Fidelis," which means "always faithful." And that's precisely the problem: we are liable to be faithful to Number 
One, no matter how it hurts another. 
In the English movie, The Accident, a lovely young woman 
cli~bs out of ~he demolished car in which she was riding, and, in so 
domg, steps nght on the face of her dead boyfriend. This part of the 
accident is, we realize, no accident at all--on the contrary, it's a 
gesture that graphically reveals something about the woman's 
personality, and atttitude towards others. 
So many of us step on others all day long. Our failures in love will seldom, if ever, make the headlines. We use the subtle approach: a million little cuts and slashes--the snub, the vicious word, the smug attitude, the blank face, the cold shoulder. I realize how many monuments there have been to my own silly atrocities: the blah­people I avoid; the hard-nosed cynic I'd rather not greet, just because I fear he'll give me one of those "if looks could kill" stares. 
Burt Bacharach's "What the World Needs Now" is getting to be a tired old tune, I suppose. But it says some things we could afford to implement around this campus these days of falling leaves and wounded hearts. The campus' greatest and most crucial need is not going to be met through a LaFortune renovation or "creative alternatives." These are important, sure; but they do not heal our radical illness or fulfill our most basic longings. For that we need more than social programs; we need social people. The heart of the matter is a matter of the heart. Hearts broken open, not just broken. Like the breaking of bread and wine poured out. What a beautiful sound! 
-·-·-·--·-·--·-···-··-····-······-···-·········-··­
Night Editor -Tom O'Neil Ass't Night Editor -Mary Janca 
Layout -Bob Varettonl, Franz 
Lanzlnger Copy Reader -Jim Donathen, Mary Janca Day Editor -Tom O'Neil Editorials-Fred Graver Features -J.R. Baker Sports -Bill Delaney, Bill Brink, Greg Corgan Typists -Rick Huber, Tom Modglin, Jim Landis, Barb Nor­cross, Barb Haug Compugraphic operator -Phil Orscheln Picture Screener -Albert D'An­tonio Night Controller -Bill Brink Displaced Soul -Dan Sanchez 



-~-----~-~ 
---~-----~ 

Tuesday, October 22, 1974' the observer 
the year at innsbruck 
komm while the drinking's good 
buhndoggel and gumms again 
tim a!reiley 
Had Crown Prince Ludwig known what he was starting when he announced his engagement, he might have done it again, and again and again. The citizens and breweries of Munich threw such a great party for the couple that it has been repeated each fall for over 160 years. Now, when the mayor proclaims, "The barrel is tapped," he is inviting beer lovers from all over the world to join in the fun and foam of Oktoberfest. 
One does not need a calender to figure out that drinking time has arrived. From September 21 to October 6, reasonably priced beds, or reasonably priced anything are hard to come by. Crowds proliferate on the streets, in restaurants, or at the great attractions of Munich, most seeming to be visitors. Information officials seem a little irritable, probably shell-shocked from the barrage of tourists. 
While here, many take the time to look at the city itself. Munich boasts one of the outstanding art galleries of the world in the Old Pinakothek, displaying the works of numerous old world masters. The German National Opera, plus many other fine music and cultural activities find an appreciativehome here. For admirers of beautiful ar­chitecture, the Nymphenburg Palace and the Church of Our Lady are musts. History, whether in the times of Frederick Bar­barossa, as the bustling capital of Bavaria, or the spawning ground of Adolph Hitler and the Nazis, has always paid notice to Munich. 
But no realist can deny that these two 
weeks belong to the gargantuan beer bust. 
Theresianwiese, the park that is the site of 
Oktoberfest, looks every bit like . an 
American fair ground. An array of flashmg 
lights advertise the dozens of rides lining the 
sidewalks. Many popcorn, cotton candy, 
and try-your-luck stands fi~l in the _sp_a~es 
between the rides. Bavanan spec1ahbes, 
such as steckerlfisch <fried fish on a stick) 
and weisswurst (roast pig knuckles) are 
sold at still other booths. 
Unlike any amusement park, however, 
these are only the appetizers or desserts of 
Oktoberfest. The main course, all you can 
drink is served in the huge beer tents 
erect~d by the seven breweries of Munich 
<Hofbrau, Lowenbrau, etc.). These "tents" 
are built much like the Armory but are over 
twice as big and crowded. A sta11:e stands in 
ta the IJeaphysic:al saciety 
clytemeatra van der varaelweide 
We are most gratified to present to our readers, the eager followers of the con­tinuing Buhndoggel-Gumms debate, the following letter--a document at once erudite and in­formed by the most sublime impulses of academic charity and a manifestation thereof unsurpassed in the history of this insitituion-both for their intellectual and moral edification. We are further pleased to announce that a special meeting of the Royal Geophysical Society convened to deliberate over Professor Buhndoggel's last communication was so deeply moved by Miss Gumm 's warm humanity and elegant diction that not only was a motion to censure Professor Buhndoggel defeated but it was moved, seconded and unanimously carried that the Royal Geophysical Society offer Professor Buhndoggel the free and unrestricted use of all the tea which the treasurer in his galling obstinancy persists in buying in little bags. We again urge that Professor Buhndoggel visit the excavations at the boathouse and make the particulars of his own research known to the academic community at large. Only with an exchange of particulars will the modern and vituperous smog shrouding the mists of Notre Dame's antiquity dissolve themselves rather than desolving the fabric of fraternal feeling that has always characterized academics on this campus. 
the middle of the floor, where Bavarian bands keep the customers happy with hours of oompahpah music. Garlands, giant dolls, brewery nameplates, and a waft of other decorations embellish the tent wall and ceiling. 
All these trappings are easily missed when you first enter the tent. The entrance looks unassuming enough: the short walk to the doors is lined with stalls selling large, bread-like pretzels, and the facade appears somewhat small. But once inside, the mammoth dimensions of the place hit the senses with an explision. A hazy cloud of smoke hanging under the ceiling turn thelights into an eye-redening glare. Thousands of people with thousands of beers almost absorb you. The choice is not of moving into the crowd, since the crush of bodies eliminates any alternative. The only choice is direction, which can also be very limited. 
The best idea is to shove and bump along to one of the hundreds of picnic tables on the floor or balcony. The tables are sectioned off from the aisles, thus providing relief from the human pinball game in the walk­ways. Also, the tables have waitress ser­vice, which lets them worry about delivering beer and food safely. Their experience at coping with the hordes, plus amazingly strong hands that allow them to carry seven or eight one litre (1% quart) glasses at a time, provides a much wiser and cleaner course than do-it-yourself. 
After the food is finished, the time has arrived to enjoy the guts of Oktoberfest, beer. Fest drinking is a little expensive <about $1.30 per litre), but European beer is so potent (four times stronger than anything Schlitz cans), that a shrunken wallet is entirely painless. Ifthe thirst is not quite up to par, many vendors walk the floor selling salt and radishes, the big pretzels, or Salzstangen (salt .rolls) which make the beer look mighty inviting. 
Just as important as the liquid are the people. Everyone comes to have fun, and only a few avoid getting drunk. The legal, though loosely observed, age is sixteen, so the whole family, sometimes even grand­parents, come along. If someone has a mugless hand, it will not be empty for long. The Bavarians will offer drinks from their own glasses until they can buy another, and 
m reply to innumerable queries concerning entrance of Rutabaga Recipes: the en tires may be in any language living or dead that we are conversant in; points will be taken off for only the most blatant mistakes in spelling and punctuation. 
appendix a 
21 Oct., 1974 
My dear Miss von der Vogelwiede: 
I was unaware, when first I wrote to you objecting to the irresponsible assertions of Professor Wilberforce Buhndoggel, of the disadvantages under which my distinguished colleague was laboring. His comments in reply seem to show that he has entered upon a career of geographico-socio­historical research singularly ill-equipped for the rigours of so arduous a task. I can readily comprehend the disruptive effect of chronic dyspepsia upon the usually finely balanced reasoning of my scholarly op­ponent. Burned baked beans and spindle whorls are definitely incompatible, and lack of coherence in one's socks can easily produce similar gaps in one's archeological conclusions. Since it is unthinkable that the insights of so fine an investigator should be 

-~ 
_,/~"':!~ ·~ ·_,/.:.7!%~ 
if;iP' 
c, 
another, and another. The waitresses bouncers, and musicians must be supplied with beer, too. To let them go dry would blight the spirit of Oktoberfest. 
At this rate, the beer tents quickly become joyous and rowdy. When the band plays, most everyone joins in the chorus of the fist­pounding German drinking songs. Some tunes incite the people at whole lines of tables to swing back and forth with the rythym, not an easy feat after a couple of litres. 
Not much later, dancing breaks out in many spots. It is all improvisation; there is not enough room to do anything with a pattern. People in the aisles grab anybody 
permanently lost to the scholarly com­munity, I am sending Professor Buhndoggel a copy of the recipe for marshmallowed rutabaga which I intend to submit to your impending culinary competition. I hope that the subsequent and consequent pacification of the good professor's digestive juices will allow the clarification of his intellectual precesses, and that, bowing to the superior logic of my arguments and the incontrovertible nature of my proofs for the location of Kvakkan­dabakki, he will retract those unfortunately acerbic and wholly unfounded objections which initiated the present interchange. In 
-----------------------------, 
OBSERVER 
FEATURES 
addition, if Professor Buhndoggel will en­close in a parcel with his inadequately comprehensive footgear a large self­addressed, stamped envelope, I will be pleased to contribute a moment or two to the rehabiliatiation of one who, before his 
-descent into curmudgeonly controversy, was an ornament to our mutual profession. I remain, Miss von der Vogelwiede, in scholarly good feeling, 
Yours, Eusebia May Gumms, B.A., M.A., Dip. Engl. Stud. 
or anything with their free hand and start moving as the music moves them. Those at the tables have nowhere to go but up, so they lock arms and form a chorus line on the benches or tables. Sitting is "verboten" in the vicinity of such a table: the dancers do not stop prodding the spectators until all become dancers. The whole, wild scene continues until the beer stops at 10:30, and the heavy drinkers head to the brewery houses downtown. 
And so it goes through sixteen straight days, a couple hundred tons of meat, and well over a million gallons of beer. It is just a big party, where people drink their praises to the breweries of Munich. But it is ef­fective. 



-----~--­
Tuesday, October 22, 1974
the observer 

Kent State defendants stand trial 
CLEVELAND UPI -Two jurors were seated Monday, the opening of the trial of eight foremrer Ohio National Guards-men charged in the 1970 slaying of four Kent State University students and the wounding of nine others. 
Chief U.S. District Judge Frank 
J. Battisti dimissed four prospective jurors before turning questions over to government and defense lawyers.
Jurors Ralph Runsey and Mrs. Constance Rillson were seated before court adjurned late Monday afternoon. 
Forurn promotes ERA at CCE 
(continued from page 1) 
Ruckelshaus declared that in the 
US, equality for women has never 
been a legal reality. 
"We accepted for too many years an underevaluation of our own possibilities ... We will no longer live with second class laws. Psychologically, we will gain ourselves in this effort," Ruckelshaus said. 
Congrt>ssional Concern 

Congressman John Brademas noted "a rising concern .in Congress about the problems that affect the lives of women, children and the needs of the American family." 
---------·-··-··-···--~·'"'···········-································································..······························-········· 
It Sounds Incredible 
BUT EVELYN WOOD GRADUATES CAN READ 
THE EXORCIST IN 58 MINUTES 
At That Speed, The 403 Pages Come Across With More Impact Than The Movie. 
r--------SCHEDULE OF FREE MINI-LESSONS--------, 
You'll increase your reading speed 50 to 100% on the spot! LAST TWO DAYS 

FREE READING DYNM\ICS LESSOf\JS TODAY & T~ON at 4:00 pm and 8:00 pm 
at THE CENTER Frn CQ\ITINUING EDUCATION on The Notre Darre Campus 
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 

L------··----····----,-----------·----------···--·...--···-····-···-···-----····..........................._ 
Robert Murphy, chief of the criminal section of the civil rights division of the U.S. Justice Department, heads the govern­ment prosecuting team and questioned the prospective jurors. 
Acting for the defense were 0. D. Lambrose, who represents four defendants; Bernard Stuplinski, who represents three. adnd E. K. Wright, who represents one. 
The defendants are charged with assaulting and intimidating four KSU students who were killed and nine others who were wounded in a 
Brademas listed legislation reflecting this concern, including the Women's Education Equity Act, which increases the number of female educational ad­ministrators. 
He also detailed a new bill, the Child and Family Services Act, which would increase day care facilities. Presently, there are seven million working mothers with only 700,000 children in day care centers, the Indiana congressmam n said. 
Men and ERA 
State Representative Robert DuComb Jr. discussed men and the equal rights amendment. He 
You can do it, too. So far over 550,000 other people have done it. People who have different jobs, different lOs, different interests, different educations have completed the course. Our graduates are people from all walks of life. These people have all taken a course developed by Evelyn Wood, a prominent educator. Practically all of them at least tripled their reading speed with equ•l or better comprehension. Most have increased it even more. Think for a moment what that means. All of them-even the slowest-now read an average novel in less than two hours. They read an entire issue of Time or 
Newsweek in 35 minutes. They don't skip or skim. They read every word. They use no machines. Instead, they let the material they're reading determine how lost they read. And mark this well: they actually understand more, remember more, and enjoy more than when they read slowly. That's right! They understand more. They remember more. They enjoy more. You can do the same 
stated that "The fundamental role of the ERAis to make equal rights available equally to men and to women. Right now both are forced into stereotyped roles and both are discriminated against by Jaw." 
"As long as there are 2 classes of citizenship ... neither men nor women will be able to reach the levels of achievement that our society promises to all." 
DuComb listed examples of Jaws that discriminate against men, including exclusion of payment on death taxes for life insurance, and pro-female court bias concerning cases involving child custody, child support, and alimony. 
13-second burst of gunfire during campus antiwar demonstrations May 4, 1970. 
Five of the defendants: William 
E. Perkins, 28, Canton, Ohio; James E. Pierce, 29, Amelia Island, Fla. ; Ralph W. Zoller, 27, Mantua, Ohio; and James D. McGee, 27, and Lawrence A. Shafer, 29, both of Ravenna, Ohio-­face maximum sentences of life in prison if convicted because of the four deaths. 
Defendants Leon H. Smith, 27, Beach City, Ohio; Matthew J. 

thing-the place to learn more about it is at a free speed reading lesson. 
This is the same course President Kennedy had his Joint Chiefs of Staff take. The staff of President ,Nixon completed this course in June 1970. The same one Senators and Congressmen have taken. 
Come to a Mini·Lesson and find out. It is free to you and you will leave with a better understanding of why it works. One thing that might bother you about your reading speed is that someone might find out how slow it is. The instn1ctors at the Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Free Speed Reading lesson will let you keep your secret. It's true we practice the first step to improved reading at a Mini-Lesson and we will increase your reading speed on the spot, but the results will remain your secret. Plan to attend a free Mini-Lesson and learn that it is possible to read 3-4·5 times laster, with comparable comprehension. 

TRAVEL RESERVATIONS TICKETING 

GRUENINGER TRAVEL 291-4810 Mon-Fri 10 • 9 Sat. 10·6 Sun. 12 • 5:30 
U p p E R L E V E L S C 0 T T S D A L E M A L L 
· 

1. In the shower .or tub, do this simple examination for breast cancer. It can save your life. While your skin is still wet and slippery, begin where you see A. Keep your fingers flat and touch every part of each breast following the arrows. Feel gently for a lump or thickening. 

check lying down. Put one hand behind your head. With the other hand, fingers flat­tened, gently and lightly press your breast. Reverse and check the other breast. 

3. Now repeat the same sit­ting up with your hand still be­hind your head. Reverse and repeat for the other breast with the other hand. If you find a lump, see your doctor. But don't be afraid. 8 times out of 10 it's nothing. And just think-doing this examination once a month can be reassur­ing too. After all, it's what youidon't know that can hurt vou 
AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY This space contributed by The '' Observer as a student service. 

l
Tuesday, October 22, 1974 
the observer 7 

I 
Halberstam speaks out on issues 
(continued from page 3) 
Referring to the Watergate in­cident, Halberstam said that Congress and the press were weak, and we were lucky to have a president so paranoic as Nixon, so that we might discover it. 
Calling Ford's pardon of the former president an "ex­traordinarily stupid thing to do," he said he would like to see all questions asked and all answers given, "so that ten years from now people won't be calling it a con­spiracy of the media." 
Concluding his speech, Halberstam entertained questions from the audience. 
The "Santa Claus of all time" 
On Rockefeller, he called him the "Santa Claus of all time." He said Rockefeller had a corrupted sense of what money is for, and added "he so violates the essential democratic spirit. I think he's a disgraceful public servant." 
Drive against tix scalpers now begun 
by Paul Young Staff Reporter 

Bill McLean, director of Om­budsman Services declared war on intentional Elton John ticket scalpers at the commencement of ticket sales in LaFortune Monday monring. 
He stated that members of Ombudsmen and Student Union on "'¥mld-be on the lookout for and investigate thoroughly any evidence of scalping "in order to see that the students are not un­duly taken advantage of." 
McLean carefully defined "the scalper" as someone who resells his tickets at $15 a piece and up­wards. This leaves out "anyone who has changed his mind about going to the concert and wishes to make a few dollars profit to compensate for a long wait for tickets," he added. 
The penalty for uncovered scalpers was not made clear, by McLean, but the method of ap­proach will be direct confrontation and an offer to sell back the tickets to the Student Union. If this is not complied with, McLean continued, the "action will be sought through hall rectors and as a last resort, the Dean of Students." 
Nothing the semester break, McLean commented that this will probably increase rather than deter profiteering activities. This he attributed to a last minute desire for tickets, anticipating that many students will be return much in advance of the Nov. 3 concert 
date.  
McLean said scalping is vestigation,  one already hinting  report under that  of in­the  

warning to scalpers should not be taken lightly. 
HARa.D ME DOW 
USED CARS AND TRUCKS 
•

LaFayette at LaSalle Phone 233-2129· 
He explained his label of Lyndon Johnson as a "tragic" figure by citing Johnson's unwanted problem of the Vietnam war. "He intended to be one thing and ended up another," said ,Halberstam .. 
.Halberstam said he supported total amnesty, because he felt the Vietnam war was an illegal war, and because "we need an inner healing." 
On Ford, Halberstam admitted that the current president seems a more democratic and modest man than his predecessors. "But, there's a gravitational force of presidency to do things, to stand up there and push the buttons without consulting anyone." he em­phasized. He cited the Nixon pardon as an example of 'this, calling it "a very Nixonian, Johnsonian thing to do." 
He emphasized the need for 
Psych open house slated 
The University of Notre Dame's Department of Psychology will host an open house Thursday from 2 to 4 p.m. in Haggar Hall for all University faculty and students and interested members of the public. Psychology students and faculty will conduct tours of the newly remodeled building and give demonstrations of on-going research projects. 
Following the open house, Dr. James E. Birren will discuss "Psychology: An Optimistic Future?" Birren is professor of psychology and director of Ethel Percy Andrus Gerontology Center at the University of Southern California. The colloquium will be held in Haggar Hall room 117 at 4:15p.m. 
Formerly the Wenninger-Kirsch Biology Building, Haggar Hall was renovated for the psychology department through a $750,000 gift from the Haggar Foundation of Dallas, Texas. 
STOKELY CARMICHAEL 
Tue. Oct. 22 "RACIST CAPITALISM" 8:00 -9:30 p.m. 
ROOM 117 HAGGAR HALL FREE ADMISSION 
-·---· 
....._·-··....----··········-·-··························-· 
THE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE presents NEW YORK THEATRE SEMINAR Ill Jan. 2 to 10, 1975 
Cost: Approx. $200.00, plus meals and transportation (Includes show tickets, tours, seminars, hotel) For information call Speech and Drama Office-284-4141 
··-····-·······--·-·····-····-···········-··························-····································­
SENIORS! 

STOP • • • AND GET YOUR SENIOR CLUB CARD . . . THIS 
AFTERNOON AT 
THE LAFORTUNE 
MAIN LOBBY 

everyone to play their role in order to create an effective counter-force to the great presidential power. "If the media plays its role, and the Senate plays its role, then the pendulum will begin to change." 
Halberstam was a Vietnam correspondent for the New York Times in the early 60's, serving in Warsaw, then in New York later in the decade. He is the author of the bestseller, "The Best and the Brightest." 
Halberstam was sponsored by the Academic Commission and introduced by Mark Zellme;. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Need 4 GA Miami tickets. Call Tom, 288-7637. 
Help! I need 2 decent tickets to Elton John concert. No scalpers need call. Please call 6818. 
Irish Lampoon needs articles, cartoons, stories $. Call 272-8724 between 9 & 11:30 pm. 
Need 1 ticket for Pitt game. Call 1132. 
Need 1 Pitt GA ticket. Call Nick, 1553. 
Need 2 GA tix for Miami. Please call 4508. 
Need 2 GA tickets for Pitt. Tom, 288-2613. 
Ride needed to Phila-NJ area on Thurs., Oct. 24. Call 8736. 
Badly need a ride to St. Louis tor October break. Call Hogie at 1612. 
Need one Pitt ticket desperately. Call Lisa at 3351. 
Need 7-8 GA or student tix tor Pitt. Call Chuck, 1592. 
Need 2 or 4 GA tix tor Pitt. Call Frank at 287-7026. 
Need 2 GA tix for Pitt game. Will pay top dollar. Call Steve, 3123. 
Needed: camping equipment for october break: tents, mess kits, fishing poles, etc. Will rent or buy. Call Observer, 8661. 
Desperately need ride to Cleveland around break time. Will share expenses. Call Tom, 8634. 
I desperately need a ride to St. Louis tor October break. One-way only_ Please call Maggie, 232-4069. 
Need ride to New Orleans or anywhere near for Oct. break. Will share $ and driving. Call Marie, 8085. 
Need ride back to N D after Oct. break-from North Dakota or N.W. Minn. Call Tom, 3306. 
Wanted desperately: 4 tix to Elton John. Call Chris, 1723. 
Need 2 GA fix for Pitt. Call 1620. 
Need 2 Elton John tix. Call Ed, 8252. 
Need 2 tickets tor Elton John. Call 283-1971. 
Rides available to Harrisburgh, Pa. for break. Call Kevin, at 8867. 
Ride wanted to Chicago area this Thurs., 8075. 
Desperately need ride to Schenectady, NY or vicinity. Please help out. Call Bob, 1427. 
Need ride to Pitt to leave Sun. Call Joe, 3663. 
Need two Elton John tickets desperately. Call 1882. 
NOTICES 
Casteneda's Tales of Power, Secret Life of Plants, Rolling Stone Magazine, Dali, Dali, Dali, All the President's Men, Tolkein's World, Tassaiara Cooking, Rock & Roll Woman and more on special sale tor 1 week at Pandora's Books. 
All BA students and faculty are invited to a pre-game picnic -this Sat.• Oct 26, in front of Hayes­Healy. Box lunch and band. Students $1.00. 
'67 Dodge, 1!2-fon Stepvan, 37,000. Fine running condition. New brakes and elect. system. $1,000 232-8500. 
Half-pric'! sale on all used books plus reductior.s on pew books during Pandora's Books SALE WEEK. 
Car problems? Come to Hoffman Bros. Eddy at Madison. Wholesale prices to ND-SMC student, faculty and staff do-it-yourselfers. Repair service also available. Since 1929. 
234-0181. 
Portrait sketches make neat Christmas gifts. Satisfaction is guaranteed. Call Rosy Elias, 5274. Charge, $3. 
Legal problem, but no money? NO Legal Aid can help. Call 283-7795, M-F, 1-4 pm. 
Typing: electric typewriter. Carbon ribbon available. Call Michele, 232-9061. 
But You've Got to Have Friends Gay Students of Notre Dame P.O. Box 1702 South Bend, Ind. 46601 
Will do typing of any kind. Call 233­4484. 
24 hr. TV Repair service. 7 days a week, Sundays and holidays. Color TVs $60 and up. Stereo units $50 and up. Call Western Electronics, 
282-1955. 
HASH BROWN BLUES BAND: GOOD BOOGIE & DANCE MUSIC FOR YOUR NEXT PARTY OR DANCE. ALSO AVAILABLE BEFORE FOOTBALL GAMES. CALL 272-9895 FOR IN­FORMATION. 
NO Backpackers and Climbers meeting and film, Oct. 22, LaFortune Auditorium. 8 pm. New members welcome. 
Needed: camping equipment for October break. Tents, mess kits, fishing poles, etc. Will buy or rent. Call Observer, 8661. 
LOST AND FOUND 
$20 reward -gold wedding ring inscribed "TJH" "8-11-72." Leave ring and name with Law School secretary, first floor. 
FOR SALE 
Pioneer PL-51 turntable with Audio Technica AT-15S cartridge $290. With AT-12S $260. Call Ed, 1487. 
One Miami tix, $8.50. Call Dan after 5:00. 683-5362. 
FOR RENT 503 West Jefferson duplex. 3-room furnished apartments. First and second floors. Gas heat furnished. 
289-6307. 
PERSONALS To Tom: "When a child loves you ...· Then you are reaI." Happy birthday, Honey. 
Love, The Velveteen Rabbit 
Bill Borders says: Vote for Birch Bayh! 
TO THE GIRLS OF 414: MANY THANKS FOR YOUR HOSPITALITY TOWARDS THE WHALETTE. 
WHALES 
Cindy: 
Have a happy Halloween-Birthday in P itts•>Urqh. Do us a favor and take off your m~sk, ok? Best wishes from Apt. 1'· 
the observer Tuesday, October 22, 1974 

Defense key in IH games: Morrissey, Holy Cross win 
by John Higgins 

In an afternoon where defense was the key to victory, two field goals were the only scoring the South Quad offenses could muster in key interhall battles before midsemester break. 
Dillon's scoreless tie with Sorin represented the first time since 1971 that the Big Red failed to win a regular-seaon game. Dillon moved the ball well enough to rack up 170 yards in total offense and 11 first downs, getting down near the Sorin 25-yard line on three of its seven possessions ., but 68 costly yards in penalties, two pass interceptions, and a weak 2-10 passing attack combined to keep Dillon out of the end zone. Running through gaping holes opened by Rod Rodrique and Roy Kolstad, running backs Craig Tigh (84 yards on 18 carries) and Joe Riepenhoff <:t1 yards on 5 rushes) kept Dillon threatening throughout the game. 
The Sorin defense toughened when it counted most and set up a number of scoring threats of its own. On the second P.lay o~ th~ gam_e, Jack Gerwe picked off ~n errant !\'l•ke 0 Neill aenal, and an 18-yard ~etur;n coupled wtth a personal foul left the ball on Dtllon s 
Greg Corgan;:::::;:::;:::::~::::;:::~:::~;:;:;:~;:;:;;;:;:;:;:::;:~;;:mm:s:::::~o:::::::::::::::::::::~ captain Mike Kemp, aborted the Sorin threat, making two stops for losses and forcing a 3Q-yard field goal which was no good. Five Tigh blasts for 34 yards and a Riepenhoff dash for 14 yards ran out the quarter with Dillon on the 34. O'Neill gained 7 on ,a draw, but another damaging 
The Irish Eye 

:::::::::::~::::;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: John ShUllX1fe ~:l~.Y penalih:;~a~J:J~~~!~~so~a~~e~ro~~s~:s~~o~e 
and with time running out, punted to the 28.
The following appeared in the Ariszona Republic, the Phoenix daily 
Riepenhoff scrambled for 13, but a dead ball foul 
newspaper. The column, written by Dave Hicks, concerns John Shumate, 
saddled the defending champs with a lst-and-25.
the first round draft pick of the Phoenix Suns of the National Basketball 
O'Neill then completed his first passes of the game, a
Association. 
10 yarder to Tom Faiver and a 15-yarder to Bob
Shumate, after leaving Notre Dame last year, was highly regarded 
Mouch, but time expired with Dillon on Sorin's 30­
in the Suns organization. He had virtually been guaranteed a starting 
yard line. 

position when he once again suffered from blood clots, this time in his 
Sorin, which outplayed Morrissey earlier in the
lungs. Shumate is out of danger but will miss the entire 1974-75 NBA 
year, is now out of the title picture with a tie and a 
season. He is currently doing the color commentary on the Suns 
broadcasts. Many thanks to Thomas Stejskal of Zahm for the clipping. 
YOUR ERSTWHILE team­mates are in the South, tak­· first r t 
ing theJr cau IOUS 8 epsin an exhibition season. You're in New Jersey. 
Your steps are more cau­tious. 
· Somehow, I t 's horribly inequitable. No one 6-9, 235, is supposed to have blood clotll in the lung -particu­larly the fourth collegian drafted by the National Bas­ketball Association in 1974. 
So your private questions tend toward: "Why me , Lord?" 
Right? One-hundred-eighty degrees wrong! 
You merely explain to someone, cross-country: 
"Sometimes there is mis­fortune in a sense when a person comes into this world. And there is a type of misfortune when a person­leaves it. So why shouldn't misfortune be a part of life?" 
But. •• 
"When you accept misfor­tune, you can become what you wish even in an air of adversity. And what I wish to become is someone who won't let Jerry Colangelo, John MacLeod and my team­mates down..." 
But shouldn't your fore­most thoughts be devoted to your own health? 
"All you have to be is a man. Be versatile. Adapt and adjust. Excel in another phase of life if you have to. Just be the man God can help you be." 
But the rotten luck... 
"Well, some people say what has happened to me was bad luck. I don't look at it that way. I consider it was actually good luck that it happened while I was in Phoenix. 
"'fhe people there macP. me feel like a king. While I was in the hospital they'd
tell me, 'We've waited this long to see you play. We can wait another year.' Isn't that 
something?" 
But what of those gloomy reports that insist you might never be able to resume a basketball career now twice -interrupted by embolisms? 
"When I come back next year, people are going to have that much more re­spect for me. And I'll have even more respect for the people like Jerry Colangelo 
and John MacLeod, who did­n't go around crying over my loss but accepted it and continued doing their jobs." 
But isn't a single ·bout with clots -one which cost you a collegiate season at Notre Dame -enough misfortune for one short career? 
"The experience at Notre Dame merely helped me get ready for this one. The first one was more difficult, be­cause I didn't have the knowledge and matmity I now have." 
But not everyone can cope effectively with such adversi­ty. 
"Sure, you have to have sound peace of mind. You have to build from an indi­vidualistic point of view, and face reality no matter what that reality. 
"I'm learning to play some tennis, and I do a little bike 
1 riding. It's difficult trying to take it easy because friends keep dropping by. 
"But I can sit down alone with clear thoughts and ac­
1 
cept what's happened. It 
must be GOO's will that has 1 me traveling this road. Why . should I get frustrated or 
depressed? That won't change anything." 
1 
This, then, is your outlook. 
32. A Norb Shickle run set up a 4th and 1 but Kevin McLoughlin stopped the play for no gain'. 
After.moving 37 yards on 7 plays, a delay penalty and an mcomplete screen pass forced a Dillon punt. Sorin quarterback John Lonsberg then went to the air, hittin~ Rich Hohman for 31 yards, but two plays later, Kevm Donohoe sacked the QB, forcing a fumble wiich Pat Meehan recovered at midfield. A facemask penalty (Sorin's only infraction of the day), and the explosive running of Tigh carried the Red to the 20, only to have Tom Kweicien stop Dillon runners for 10 yards in losses on consecutive plays to end the drive. 
Sorin, which managed but 91 yards and 3 first downs on the day, amassed 37 of them on the opening play of the second half on a Lonsberg-to-Paul Chute floater, caught between five Dillon defenders. But Karl Weyand and Pete Reilly threw Lonsberg for back-to-hack losses. The hard-pressed Dillon "D" was ~a~k on the field just two plays later, when Chip Habtg mtercepted a misguided screen at the Dillon 
35. Lonsberg followed with his third long-gainer of the g~me, a 15-yard sweep for ~e deepe~t penetrat!on 


,. ..,. ,; .~ ~lil 
. -~~ ~ "'hi:;;w., 1>' ~. 

for etther team all day. But trrepresstble defensive Morrissey Hall remained unbeaten, slipping by Howard-3-0. 
loss. The deadlock sets up still another title game between 5-() Morrissey, who took it all in 1972 and 3-Q­1 Dillon, champions the other three times in' the past four years, this Wednesday night. 
Morrissey's offense had its problems as well on Sunday, edging Howard 3-Q on a 31-yard Brooks Humphreys field goal with 4 minutes left to play. The Marauders, who managed only five first downs and one sustained drive, got their big break when Jim Ignaut recovered a Howard fumble on the Howard 28. 
~ix plays gll:ined 15 yards before Humphreys booted hts ga~e-wmner with three minutes to play.Defe~stve ~nd Norb ~ross then saved the victory for M~rnssey m the closmg minutes,, Knocking down a swmg pass that seemed destined for long yardage and sacking Howard quarterback Carl Oberzut for a 24-yard loss on consecutive plays. 
Freshman Joe Nicholson outdistanced Morrissey's Brooks Humphreys in kicking Pangborn-Fisher to its first win of the year, 3-() over Alumni, hitting a 38­
· yarder in the first period. Alumni's defense played superbly, as it has done all year but the offense which .has yet to score this seaso~, was plagued by penalttes and had its problems against a P-F "D" Jed by Tom Steveens and Pangborn Hall President Digger Dziemianowicz. 
NORTH QUAD 

Aided by Keenan's upset of previously-unbeaten Stanford, Holy Cross clinched at least a tie for the division title on Sunday but must still play Stanford in its final game. The Hogs, who belie their nickname with lightni~g-quick speed to the outside, swept past Zah~ 12-o m a 200-p~us yards offensive explosion. Behmd a hardwrokmg line anchored by Steve McGregor and Kevin Downs, Paul Martuscello rushed for 100 yards, including a 63-yard TD romp in the fourth quarter, and backfield mate Larry McCrief 
Miami-ND game 
• 
2-1-1 Flanner 3-2-0

reg1onally televised ~~~~born 
1-2-1 Grace 2-2-1 

ABC-TV announced yesterday that this Saturday's Miami-Notre Dame football game would be regionally televised. However as the midwest regional game, Saturday's conte;t will be seen by 75 per cent of the nation. 
~h~ Miami-Notre Dame game will replace the ongianally scheduled Pittsburgh-Notre Dame telecast on November 16. The Pitt game was in­tended to be Notre Dame's regional appearance but apparently ABC officials feel that Notre D~me-Miami will be a more attractive drawing card. The Irish will enter the game with a 5-1 record while the Hurricanes travel to South Bend fresh off a 21-20 win over West Virginia and a 4-1 won-loss record. 
Notre Dame is scheduled for one more telecast on added 100 yards. Zahm 's secondary held HC's potent passing attack in check most of the game, but a 25­yard toss from Mark Anzelon to stellar receiver Bedford Bruno accounted for the Hogs' first score in the third quarter when a Zahm defender slopped on the wet turf. Mike Fitzgerald, Craig Moreland, and 
~~~;~;~~~:ht~~~~n~:~s~odf!:~~: ~~~d :fn~m in check 
The upset of the season came Wednesday night when Keenan toppled neighbor Stanford 6-0 on a second period pass play from John Feeney to Greg Wil~s ~overing 30 yards. Keenan, the preseaon chmce m the North, had been victimized in its first two con!ests by long bombs for winning touchdowns, 
but agamst Stanford, a hard-hitting total defensive 
~ffo~t in the words of Captain Chuck Kern, helped to mspire the team to down their long-time rival and severely dampen Stanford's title hopes. Keenan 
could not get. so motivated in its next game against ~)anne~, falhng 7~ on a first-period scoring bomb Immediately followmg a pass interception on 1st-and­10 at the Flanner 30. Keenan had earlier driven 65 yards to the Flanner 5 but also failed to score. Earli~r in th~ week, Flanner won its third game of the year m dealmg Cavanaugh its fifth loss. 
Slumping Grace managed a 6-6 tie with Zahm and cuaght St~nford on the rebound, losing s-o. Quar­terback Mtke McGarry to Luigi Pereira once again accounted for the scoring for Grace this time combin~ng on a .so-yard pass-run play on'the opening possessiOn agamst Zahm. In the fourth period, however, a center snap on a punt sailed into the Grace end zone and Mark Lukanich recovered for Zahm 'sTD. Zahm then rambled for 190 yards behind new quarterback Ken Sobolewski, including 110 by Casey Nolan. Defensive backs Ed Carey and Mike ~tenger. and li~ebacker Tom Clancy were the key ftgures m shuttmg off Grace after their first-period 
score· 
~~ace moved the ball well against Stanford, dnvmg 70 yards in the first half only to have a Don Kelly dive fall inches short on a 4th down from the 2. S~anford's winning points came on a 5-yard toss from Bill Blum to Ed "Offsides" McGah culminating a 65­yard drive opening the second half. Ends Charlie Murphy and Bill Horan were the leaders of the defensive charge as Stanford won its fourth game of !he season, and Stanford must now defeat Holy Cross m the regular-season finale and then in a playoff, if necessary, to reach the championship against the South Quad winner. 
On Wednesday evening, at Cartier Field Dillon takes on perennial rival Morrissey at 7 p.m. Pangborn-Fisher challenges Sorin at 8, with St. Joe vs. Alumni in the 9 o'clock nightcap. 
The current standings: 

South  North  
Morrissey Dillon  5-0-0 3-0-1  Holy Cross Stanford  5-Q-0 4+0  

Alumni Howard  1-3-0 1-3-1  Keenan Zahm  2-3..() 1-4-1  
St. Joe's  0-4..()  Cavanaugh  0-5..()  

Hockey tix still left 
Desp.ite an ~xciting 2-1 overtime win over defending cha~p1on Mmnesota last Friday night, and a new, excitt~g s~asonal ou~look, Notre Dame's hockey team may fmd ttself Jackmg one thing--student support. 
So far hockey season ticket sales have been slow and of the 1200 student allotment, only 600 have been purc~ased. The cost is minimal and the en­tertamment the best, so before the tickets are offered 
ABC this season. That. game will be be Notre Dame­to the general public, let's go fans! ! ! ! 
If you're made of the 
Southern California on Nov. 30.
same stuff as John Shumate. 


