-------~-~---------_.._.-----------------, 
~~-,....------------... 
) On The Inside 
Mardi Gras...p. 6 PNV program ... p. 3 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's communlt)'
Vol. VIII, No. 67 TueSday, January 29, 1974 
Dillon parietals violation 
Judicial Board ruling clarified 
by Patrick Hanifin 
Staff Reporter 

A 1·eexamination of the incidents surrounding the Dillon Hall parietal violation has clarified and corrected several major points made in an earlier Observer article. The original Judicial Board decision was not reversed by Dean of Students John Macheca nor did the students involved choose which semester he would be suspended. 
According to Greg Smith, student defender in the case, the Judicial Board was reversed by the Board of Appeals and sent back to the Judicial Board which decided that the suspension would be for the second semester. 

After the studtnl was apprehended by Fr. Burt­chaeH he dtcided to take his case to the Judi<'ial Board rather than to Macheca for action. The Board ruled to suspend him for the rest of the first semester, about three weeks, and allow hir:1 to t<~ke incompletes for his semester grade until he could r.1ake up his finals in January. 
The University appealed the decision to the Board of Appeals, consisting of one student, one ad­r.,inistrator, and one faculty member, when they discovered that the Judicial Board did not have the right to assign incompletes since that is an academic matter. Greg Smith, student defender, said, "The Judicial Board did make a mistake on their powers. The question was, what the Appeals Board should do a~out it." 
The University, represented by Macheca, wanted the Appeals Board to decide the disciplinary action itself. The student defenders argued that the Ap­peals Board should simply send the case back to the Judicial Board for new action. "That is what they did," Smith explained, "so we actually won that part of the case." 
The Judicial Board's new decision was to suspend the student for the entire second semester, rather than wipe out his work for the first. It was not the student who decided which semester he would lose as stated in the original report. 
Since the student had already returned home to Massachusetts before he had heard of the new action Macheca called to inform him of it. He returned to take his finals and is now attending college in Massachusetts so he can return to Notre Dame next fall as a senior. 

John Macheca: did not reverse original Judicial Board mistake, but represented University at the proceedings. 

!sraelis colnplete first stage of Mid-east withdravval 
by United Press International "I'm leaving. I'm leaving,"one Israel's southei·n-most ooint of as our friends, the Egyptians, on Secretary of Sate Henry A. Israeli soldier shouted, waving his occupation, from which three­the other side," said an officer Kissinger, all Israeli forces are to Israel iifted its siege of Suez arms. Others sang out, "This land abreast columns of captured who could be identified under be withdrawn from the canal's City and the Egyptian third army is Your Land, This Land is My Soviet-built T-55 tanks roard north­Israeli censorship rules only as Lt. West Bank by Feb. 21. By March 5, Monday, completing the first stage Land." ward. CoL David, commander of the Egyptian forces are to be in control of its withdrawal from the West The joy was also tempered by The new temporary Israeli Israeli truce line post at Kilometer of ?oth banks of the waterway,Bank of \he Suez Canal sadness. defense line runs about three miles 101. which has been closed since the 
Some 600 blue-helmeted U.N. "It's a shame, a terrible north of the Cairo-suez highway 1967 war. troops carrying automatic rifles shame," said a 29-year-old private and parallel to it. "Then we pulled the flag down, In return for the Israeli pullback temporarily moved into vacated from Bat Yam, sitting in a half folded it up and, with a last salute, into the Sinai 13 miles east of the
"We held a short parade for­
positions in preparation for han-track. "We're leaving a lot Of we said a nice goodbye and packed waterway, Egypt is to thin its
r.,ation in the presence of the
ding them over to Egypt soldiers behind here. I just hope up," he told the Israeli radio. forces along the canal's east bank
Swedish U.N. troops who were
The Israeli withdrawal .from they haven't died from nothing." Under the disengagement and pull all surface-to-air missiles
rather curious about, it, was well
about one-third of a 560-square-A senior officer said, "There had agreement engineered by U. S. out of the desert. mile bulge inside Egypt captured better be peace this time-we gave during the October war is to be them everything." followed immediately by a thin-The withdrawing Israelis looked ning out of Egyptian forces fron,' back at a smoke-streaked hori~on, the Sinai according to Israeli evidence of last-minute destruc­military sources. lion of documents arid militacy • 
The Israeli command said installations. Egyptian SAM 
COUP report exam1nes
Syrian gunners fired several missile sites had already been mortar shells at Israeli positions blown up earlier. Israeli Chief of in the Golan Heights Monday, but Staff Lt. Gen. David Elzar denied no casualties were reported. Monday that Israel had ever Israel and Syria, which have not agreed to leave captured Egyptian yet negotiated a troop military installations intact. disengagement agreement, also The Israelis surrendered their clashed Saturday and Sunday in control of a 18-mile stretch of the 
university. enrollment and 
the area. , Cairo-Suez highway from 
The newspaper, citing reliable Kilometer 101 eastward to Suez sources in Washington, said the Cit:y on t~e waterway, this lifting plotters against Sadat e~nployed thetr encirclement of the shell­"officers who oppose Sadat's pocked oil refining port. policy toward Israel." It did not They also opened the route to elaborate. unrestricted traffic from Cairo to 

recruitment policie~s
Halftracks, armored personnel the 3rd Army, trapped in the Sinai carriers, jeeps, trucks and buses since the Oct. 24 truce that ended all crowded with helmeted Israelis the 1973 war. jammed the Caro-8uez road in the The U... s. forces formally took first military withdrawal ca-rried control of the highway at midday out by the Jewish state since it following a dawn transfer of the surrendered the Sinai in 1957. Gulf of Suez port of Adabiya, 
..• ~~9.~-Y .. on p~ge 5 
'' . ' 

1. the observer Tuesday, January 29, 1974 
Miami (UPI) -More than a million Cubans chanting "Viva 
warld 

briefs 
Brezhnev, Viva Brezhnev" welcomed Leonid L. Brizhnev, General Secretary of the Soviet Communist Party, to Havana Monday afternoon, according to Cuban radio monitored here. En route to Cuba, flying just off the U.S. Atlantic Coast, Brezhnev wired greetings to the people of the United States and expressed confidence relations between the United States and the Soviet Union "will be developing further." 
Washington (UPll-President Nixon asked Congress Monday for $13.6 billion in veterans benefits during the next fiscal year, including increases in GI bill payments and higher pensions to offset the climbing cost of living. He asked for an 8 per cent increase in schooling benefits and for cost of living adjustments to VA pension payments which now go to l million veterans and 
1.3 Piilion survivors of veterans. 
\\'ashington <UPll -Herber L. "Bart" Porter, who told the Senate Wate1·gate Committee he had kept quiet for fear he would be accused of "Not being a team 'player" pleaded guilty Monday to one count of lying to the FBI about the scandal. 
U.S. District Judge William B. Bryant let Porter, the former scheduling director of the Committee for the Reelection of the President, go free without bond and postponed sentencing unitl the court gets a probation report. 
To improve service 



Microfilm center moved 
by Gregg Bangs 
Staff Reporter 
"I shou\d hope that the first ir.H~'ediate result of moving the Microfilm Room is a vastly im­proved degree of service." com­f.' en ted Dr. George Sereiko, Director of Public Services of the ND Library, on the recent tran­sferral of the Library's microfilm resources. 
During the Christmas break, all of the microfilm resources were shifted from a classroom -sized facility on the second tloor to an area formerly occupied by tables and seats that was set aside ·for studying. This area is also located on the second floor. 
"The old facility was always crowded." according to Sereiko, "but since this new room is three times the size of the old one, we hope that the overcrowding situation will be alleviated." 
To complement the new facilities, there have been two other additions to the Microfilm 
Center. The most important of 
these is implementing of Brother 
Francisco Drury C.S.C., who will 
become  the  first  full-time  
111icrofilm  attendant  in  the  
University's history.  Brother  

Drury's 111ain responsibility will be the actual running of the room. However, he will also be on hand to 
teach people how to operate the r.1icrofilm machines. 
"This," states Dr. Sereiko, "is not as trivial a task as It may seem, for there are many people on this campus who have never learned how to operate a microfilm r.,achine. And since the microfilm readers are always coming out in different styles, Brother Drury will probably end up teaching people who thought they knew how to use the readers, too." The center will now be open from 8:00am to 10:00 pm. Mondays through Fridays. 
The other addition to the Microfilm Resource Center is the acquisition of four new microfilm , readers. To go along with the new readers, the University is also ob-taining a huge collection of r.1icrofilm known as micorfiche. The r.1icorfiche deals with the culture of primitive people and will be used primarily by the Sociology Department. 


As well as adding the micm'fiche to the r.1 icrofilm collection, Dr. Sereiko would like to continue to buiid up the micro-text section up and add on to the sixty titles that the University already has in the Periodical Section. A"At the present r.,oment, we have a newspaper section that offers, in fuli, The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal andiTheTimes of London. We would also like to work on expanding that." 
Dr. Sereiko hopes that with the addition of the new microfilm collection, the new microfilm readers, and the full time at­tendant, both students and faculty 
will  use  the  newly  located  
Microfilm  Center  to  its fullest  
exlent.  

The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester t$14 per year) f1rom The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

an campus taday 

4:30 
pm -seminar, "target organ stimulation of parasym­

4:30 
pm · meeting, lacrosse team, ace aud. 7:00pm-film, "a raisin in the sun," sponsored by black studies 


pathetic  nerve  outgrowth  in  the  developing  mouse  sub­ 
mandibular  gland,"  rev.  michael  coughlin, sponsored  by  
biology dept., galvin aud.  

program, free, engineering aud. 7:00pm· discussion,great books, room lOS madeleva, smc. 8:00pm· basketball, nd vs. marquette, ace (sold out). 
A 
t~~\:~:l 
:~~ 




-~~~ 
T·'m McMahon General Agent 


'Tearafter year, ~oo,eme~oo,terI after ~eme~ter. the ( 'olle~eMa~oo,ter' from Fidelity LJnion I jfe has hcen the most accepted, 
most popular plan on campuses all m·er America. 
Find out why. 
('all the Fidelity Lnion ( 'olle~eMaster· .Field Associate m your area: 
1 005 E. LaSalle 
Sou·th Bend , Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 
.,1:i_

'•· 
..,.... 
,,.-
COIIegeMaste( 

GLOBAL AWARENESS WEEKEND 
Conducted by four Maryknoll Missioners 
SIMULATION GAMES DESIGNS AND FILMS WEEKEND SESSION TO SURFACE ISSSUES & PROBLEMS OF ASIA, AFRICA AND LATIN AMERICA 
(Sign up at Campus Ministry Office in Library; FE E--$5) 
--------~------------------..._.---------------., 
Tuesday, January 29, 1974 the observer 3 
l
PNV offers S.B. centers program 
by Tom Russo Staff Reporter 

Yesterday afternoon Dr. Basil O'Leary, administrator of the Program in Non-Violence <PNV), and several PNV students met with Cassel Lawson, director of Off-Campus Students Activities to discuss some practical aspect; of 
one of the Program's current projects. Plans call for interested PNV students to work in several of the five neighborhood centers situated in South Bend's "poverty pockets". 
"We want to provide op­portunities for practical ap­piica lions of concepts studied and discussed in the classroom," said Dr. O'Leary. To this end he and a nucleus of approximately eight students will meet Thursday with Dean Johnson, head of South Bend's ACTION, a federally funded, city-con trolled poverty program which operates the five neighborhoodcenters. 
"Be honest, real, genuine, open," advised Mr. Lawson, who is coordinating PNV with the city agency. "I would be skeptical of forcing your values upon the 

Hitch-hiking taking toll on passengers 
by Andy Swanfeldt Staff Reporter 

"Hitch-hiking," a common means of transportation for many Notre Dame students, "could prove to be dangerous," says ND Security Director, Arthur Pears. 
Last Saturday night, two separate incidents of armed robbery occurred between the Morris Inn and Angela Boulevard. One occurred as an ND student hitched a ride around 10:00 pm Saturday. He was robbed of $19.00 and forced out of the car before it reached the traffic light at Notre Dame Ave. and Angela. 
The second robbery occurred about ten minutes later. This time the student was robbed of $4.00 and again forced out of the car before reaching the intersection of Notre Dame and Angela. 
Both armed robberies were 
reportedly committed by the same 
persons, even though they oc­cUJTed separately. Two males drove a light bluish-green Mustang on both occasions. The first time they wore red ski masks and the second time they wore nothing to conceal their faces. 
Pears realizes that hitch-hiking is commonplace, but "asks that students be extremely careful when hitch-hiking." 
In other incidents on campus, two thermal windows were broken in the Memorial Library. This also occurred on Saturday evening. One was cracked by the high winds that caused other damage in the area and forced a wind warning to be issued. The other appears to have been struck by a golf cart. Though they were merely cracked, both windows will have to be replaced at considerable cost. 
A homemade luggage rack was 
reported missing from a car in the 
D-2 parking lot somewhere bet­
ween i pm on · Friday and 2 pm 
on Saturday. 
people in the community. They are up to date more than ever before nn community issues such as education, housing, even in­ternational affairs." 
Mr. Lawson, also Minority Student Advisor, knows from experience the plight of South Bend's poverty pockets as he has been active in community affairs for several y£:ars. 

"We expeo::t about 30 students to participate" commented Dr. O'Leary. Althnugh they have only nebulous ideas at the moment as to preciseiy how they intend to par!cipate (classes, movies, or perhaps "rap sessions") the volunteers have definite ideas as to 
... "The idea" stated Mr. Lawson, 
ts to. learn from each other. Notre 
Dame ~ants to participate in 
con~r-'umty affairs. We can do a 
iot JUSt by being there." 


GOP representatives push for April 30 impeachment deadline in committee 
WASHINGTON UPI Republicans on the House Judiciary Committee decided Monday to push for an April 30 cut­off date for impeachment proceedings against President Nixon. 
The GOP members plan to offer the date as an amendment Thursday when the committee takes up a resolution to get a mandate from the House to con­tinue with impeachment and subpoena power vested in the committee. 
Rep. Robert W. McClory, R-Ill., second-ranking Republican on the committee, said the amendment would direct the committee to report a recommendation on impeachment to the House no later than April 30. 
David  Dennis,  R-Ind.,  said  the  
Republicans  were  satisfied  by  
Jenner's  explanation  that  the  
quote was incomplete.  

But if the administration fails to cooperate with the committee or if special Watergate prosecutor Leon Jaworski refuses to turn over his evidence to the committee, an extension of the April 30 deadline will be sought., McClory said. 
Rep. Tom Railsback, R-Ill., said, "Many of us support tbat, but if there is any obetruct.ton by the White House, then we would vote to extend it" 
The two said they were only putting in writ.ing Chairman Peter 
MEN !··WOMEN! 
JOBS ON SHIPS! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect sum­mer job or career. Send $3.00 for information. SEAFAX, Dept. 6-F, 
P.O. Box 2049, Port Angeles, wa·shington 98362. 
W. Rodino's late April target date. Rodino has said he hopes to have a committee vote "in late April or thereabouts, but I won't be locked into that date." 
Albert E. Jenner, chief GOP counsel on the impeachment inquiry staff, sat in on the meeting and underwent questioning about his statement in a Chicago television interview earlier this month in which he said Nixon could be held responsible for the actions of his subordinates in certain areas. 
McClory, Railsback and Rep. 
They said Jenner told them he rneant Nixon would be responsible if he authorized illegal acts, even if he didn't know about them. Jenner used the example of Nixon's in­structions to Egil "Bud" Krogh to set up the "plumbers" unit to plug White House news leaks. 
Merely directing that the plumbers unit be formed, Jenner told the Republicans, would not make Nixon responsible for any illegal acts they committed. But if Nixon told Krogh to "wiretap, burglarize or whatever you have to do," he would be responsible even if he did not know those acts had been carried out, the Republicans quoted Jenner as saying. 
They said Jenner also satisfied them with an explanation that he contributed to a fundraiser for Sen. Adlai Stevenson, D-Ill., because he was a longtime friend of the family and not because he was a "closet" Democratic. 
Speaker Carl Albert, meanwhile, said there will be a vote in the House on whether to impeach Nixon regardless of what the Judiciary Committee reports. 




WALEVS 
guest cellist with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra 
Seymour Rubinstein-­Conductor 
Sat. Feb. 2, 1974 8:00pm Morris Civic Auditorium Tickets: $4.50, $2.50 available at box office on day of per­
formance only after .5 pm 

What goes on at these neigh­borhood centers? They encompass a wide variety of community services, including inoculations, Day Care centers, Welfare Department offices, employment agencies, educational classes, and iegal aid. One of these centers is located on Notre Dame Ave. at South Bend Ave. ("Louie's" corner), with the main office on So. Michigan. 
"Two years ago," recalled Mr. Lawson, "the Non-Violence Program tried to become involved by leaching classes at Washington School after a series of riots. 
However, the South Bend Superintendent of Schools initiated a program in which parents had a greater participation in the education of their children, and he thought the PNV classes were not needed at !hat time." 
The Program in Non-Violence is a trans-disciplinary specialty under the guidance of the Theology Department. Initiated in 1968, it 
presently encompasses a series of seven courses, some of wh ich can be taken for Theology or Philosophy credit. 

LUNCH 

Homburgers . Cheeseburgers Ham Sandwiches 
Roast Beef 
Sandwiches and Hoagies 
12-4pm 

Special today and tomorrow 
16 oz. beer 25~ 


Athletic and 
Convocation Center

NOTRE DAME 
Ticket Pr·ices: Tickets on sale: 

Bleachers _•.• _. _..•$3.50 NOTRE DAM[, A. C. C. Mon.. Sat. 9 to s Lower Arena--.• --. _$4.50 Robertson's South Bend & Concord Mall Main Fllor ••..•. --•.$5.50 St. Joseph Bank -and branches Loge -•. -••. ----••. $5.50 First Bank -Main office only Platform •••.•..•• __ $5.50 Elkhart Truth 
FOR MAIL ORDER: State number & price of tickets desired. Make check or money order payable to N.D. J. Geils Band. Send to J. Geils Band Show A.C.C. 
1icket office, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Enclose self­,. addressed stcJmped envelope. 

THE OBSERVER 
A"-' INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER Jerry Lutkus 
Dan Barrett

Art Ferranti Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor 
Executive Editor 

Lee Gentine Business Manager  NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 BUSINESS: 283-7471  John Kloos Advertising Manager  
---------------·---------­ 
Tuesday, January 29, 1974  

The Dillon Affair Epilogue 
The clarification of last semester's Dillon Hall Incident brings some questions to mind: 
Rehabilitative Discipline--Since John Macheca took over the Dean of Students office, he has dedicated himself to a program of "Rehabilitative Discipline." It seems questionable that a one semester suspension to the Dillon Hall student that allows him to leave the sobering influence of this university for the free spirits of a state school offers any true rehabilitation. 
Telling All--Throughout his short tenure, Macheca has stood stoicly for the integrity and confidentiality of his office, yet the Dillon Hall student told all to him, 
The Judicial Board--How 
he  turned  around  and  used  the  in­ 
formation  to  see  that  the  student  got  
punished.  

can a University discipline system operate when its Judicial Board does not know what it can and cannot decide upon. Their ignorance of their powers resulted in a true injustice being done to the student in question, (flying back and forth to Massachusetts). Also, the delay in the appointing of the Judicial Board until late into last semester is a mistake that the University should not allow ever to happen again. Their appointments 

should be prompt. 
Macheca has been painted by many as the bad guy in the case but some blame seems to fall on all the people involved. The complicated and antiquated judicial proceedings of the campus must bear the brunt of the blame though. They need to be changed. 
All the other incidents surrounding the case seem to be unfortunate, but predictable occurances. It's a tradition on this campus to operate on the simple motto that is you're dumb enough to get caught, you deserve what ever you get. The student really didn't use his head and resultingly, he paid for it. 
In the case of the Provost, he exercised a right of the University that is clearly outlined in our room contracts. Legally, the University as a private institution can enter rooms no matter how much the students complain. The Student Affairs office has been adamant that rooms will only be entered under extreme conditions and that, with the exception of the Dillon case, the rector will be present. Only one other room has been entered this year. 
The entire incident was unfortunate. Hopefully, it will spur some changes in the University judicial procedures and some answers to our questions. 
Jerry Lutkus 


Extend the Break 
The Spring Break for this semester ends with classes resuming on a Monday. With the gasoline shortage and the closing of all gas stationson Sunday, it will be im!)ossible for most students to return on Sunday prior to the opening of classes. 
Throughout the calendar crisis, the Provost insisted that the purpose of a break is to get students .away from the campus and if the gasoline shortage forced students to come back a day early, it would in effect thwart the Provost's intent. 

The University has yet to address this issue and it si clear that they have an obligation to. The perfect way to handle the situation is to move the opening of classes back to Tuesday. (A holiday in celebration of the passing of th~~ new calendar or even the long-awaited vacation for the national championship.) This would give students who have long distances to drive back to campus a chance to make it back without un­necessarily killing themselves. 
Jerry 1Lutkus 



The following is an excerpt from the homily given at the team Mass just prior to the Alabama game. I share it with you,not because it had anything at all to do with the outcome of that game, but because it touches on a couple of points I felt (and still feel) rather crucial as we rnove into 1974 together. 
All week long people have been making suggestions for the kind of pep talk I might give for the game tonight. I'm afraid I don't feel comfortable with pep talks; I can't see that as my business. You should hardly need one, anyway, for this game. Even if you did, living down he1·e these past four days, with all those Alabama fans shouting their "Roolll, Tide, roll." should provide more than enough incentive for you to want to win this game so much you can taste it. 
As we say farewell to an old year and welcome in the new, it seems rather important for us to see this present moment in a context that includes the game, of course, but which goes beyond it to other con­siderations. 
Seals and Cmft have a song that's quite popular these days -"We May Never Pass This Way Again." That says it pretty well for most of us, I suspect. When we refer it to 1973, we say, "Let's hope we never have to pass this way again!" For many of us here, the year began with the Orange Bowl... and that catastrophe set the tone. For much of the year we were mired in the swamp of Watergate. And the year ended with ... well, what happened a few days ago at Christmas? 
At ieast five times in the history of our country, following the cessation of a war, Presidents have selected Christmas as a most appropriate time to extend amnesty. But not after this war, not this Christmas, not from this President. Consequently, thousands of young r.•en your age will remain separated from family, friends and country because they refused to kill. Amnesty would have been "an act of )!race" for all Americans; and the presidential refusal has contributed an element of travesty to a time we call the "season of peace." 
This_iatest presidential betrayal caps off the year. In many ways, then, It's been an Orange-Bowl-Watergate-no-amnesty year; and we're well rid of it. Yet, there are important lessons to be learned from aU of this. 
Out of the adversity of the Orange Bowl came roots of dedication ­new determination and resolve that probably contributed in no small way to our being here playing for the National Championship today. Because of this, "We May Never Pass This Way Again" takes on a special Peaning. 
There are, of course, other most crucial lessons to be learned from this past year. How tragic if we miss them! If we didn't have darkness, how could we recognize the light? We can benefit from the experiences of 1973, if they fill us with a sense of urgency -a disire to personally matw·e and to enter into the task of creating a better world. Thank God for a new year, a chance for a fresh beginning! 
Here, too, the song suggests our theme. "We May Never Pass This Way Again." We may never be confronted so forcefully with the evidence of how much we need God's New Year's gift. Pope Paul has recomr.,ended that we declare this occasion World Peace Day. In the gospel we've just heard, Jesus speaks of his gift to each of us: the peace the world can never give. Because of all this past year has been, we should be more receptive to his peace than ever before. As we recognize the American myths of Manifest Destiny and My Country Right or Wrong, we can move to a healthy realism and a posture of openness. We realize our personal shallowness and mistakes, and the great r.1oral sickness afflicting our country. As a result, we may finally see a simple but crucial fact: we need his peace ... his spirit, his presence, his life within us. 
"We May Never Pass This Way Again." There's lots of meaning in that for us right now. Maybe we're ready. Maybe, just maybe, we are ready for a great beginning (in tonight's game) and a much better new year. We stand on the brink of a New Year ... face to face with the mystery of new beginnings. It is a beginning marked with an ever­fresh promise: "I give you peace; my peace is my gift to you." The spirit his gift of peace brings to us can stir us to a lifetime of wanting to fulfill our r:1ost unselfish and honest desires for peace, justice, and effol'ts at canng-in a world broken, and striving in 1974 to be healed and Pade whole again. 

Tuesday, January 29, 1974 the observer 
5 

Enrollment to stabilize at 6600 
I 

Encourage best students to apply I 

by AI Rutherford Staff Reporter 

This is the fourth in a series of articles by The Observer l'Xamining in depth each area considered by the Com­mittee on University Priorities. . . Today's article deals with the section on enrollment, with comments from Director of Admissions John T. Goldrick. 
The Task Force on Enrollment, when it met back in the fa Hof 1972, addressed itself to two sets of problems: those concerned with encouraging the best students to apply to Notre Dame, and to come if accepted; and those con­cerned with maintaining a well-satisfied student body which would be its own recruiting advertisement. 
The members of the task force researched and recommended in each of the following areas: Population, Recruitment, Admissions, Housing and Environment. Subcommittees were formed by the task force to treat each of the areas. 
Population 

Notre Dame now enrolls 6796 full-time students of which 816 or 12 per cent are women. The freshman class as of October, 1973, contained 1786 students. But ~uture classes have to be between 1625 and 1650 students If the student population of 6600, recommended by the Committee on University Priorities <COUP) is to be mained. 
But before any conclusions were reached, the sub­committee realized that certain assumptions had to be r.1ade, and these were used as guidelines. A few of the assumptions included that there will not be any recom­pendations for any new construction, that any changes in physical facilities in the academic area will. be for r.1odernization, and that without new construction, the upperlimit for "on-campus" students is 5100 un­dergraduate beds (or 5400 if two buildings are rem ode led). 
One of the goals set forth by the subcommittee was to 
reduce the cunent attrition rate of 19.5 per cent. Ac­
cording to Leo Cm·baci, Dean of Administration and a 
r.,ember of the task force, at least one-third of the attrition 
rate is due to financial costs. "Our biggest goal is to in­
crease financial aid to meet the rising costs of tuition and 
room and board," commented Corgaci. "As financial aid 
decreases, our attrition rate is increasing." 
Another of the goals was to stabilize the student 
population at 6600. "But to attain this goal," explained 
Cm·baci, "one also has to consider whether 6600 students 
are sufficient enough to cover the costs which are always 
increasing." 
Cm·baci continued, "Hopefully, in a year we will attain 
the goal of 6600. About 1700 students will be graduating 
this year with only about 80 returning for a fifth or sixth 
year. With a freshman class projected between 1625 and 
1650 and the normal attrition rate, the goal of 6600 is 
reachable." 
Below are the figures (As of October, 1973): 
Totals by class year Pen -women 
Freshmen 1369-417 (1786) 
Sophomore 1433-160 0593) 

Junior  1513-121 (1634)  
Senior  1589-116 0705)  
5th year·  64-2 (66  
6th year  12-0 (12)  
Fuil-time total  5980-816 (6796)  

Other recom!11endations bv the subcommittee included the n··aintainance of the quaiity of the student as a major goal, increase scholarship grants and that a program of cost reductions. and tuition increases be taken. 
Recruitment and Admissions 
This subcommittee set forth thirteen goa Is including the following: to offset a continued decline in applications by r.~m·e intensive l'ecruitment, to involve Notre Dame . alumni in recruiting of students, to conduct admis.sbns workshops for alumni volunteers and to develop a more extensive recruitment program for increasing numbers and quality of students representing ethnic groups. 
Already Notre Dame alumni clubs are taking an active role in recruitment. Recently, the Alumni Advisory Club went to ten cities to conduct Admission Workshops. In total, 48 clubs represented by 109 people attended these sessions. 
John Goldrick, director of admissions and a task force member, explained various ways in which the admissions office has changed. "The idea is to personalize the whole 

The ~ubcommittee recommended that the enrollment be stabilized at 6600 and that the quality of the student be maintained. 
process." He continued, "We personally contact students who receive national awards such as National Merit, Math of English or any other area which is excelled in." 
"We also send letters to students who have their SAT scores sent to us," Goldrick explained. "Our applications increased by 3,000 last year, and this year they are run­ning about 20 per cent higher (before the Sugar Bowl) . 
"One way to retain the quality of our school is to in­crease applicants," Goldrick stated. "We want out­standing students and not just in SAT's and class stan­dings. . . 
The subcommittee recommended that the AdmiSSions Office staff be increased to ten professional positions. One of the new coordinators would be in charge of minority groups. Minority enrollment now totals 334 students or 4.9 per cent of the total student body. The minority groups include Afro American, Spanish American, Oriental American and American Indians. The coordinator's job would be to increase minority ethnic enrollment at Notre Dame. 
Dan Saracino assistant director of admissions, com­mented "The admissions office needs more funds if it is to succ~ed in keeping pace with other universities. We have to be able to bring in a cicrocosm of students. Also, financial aid of going to have to be increassed to assure a variety of students." 
The subcommittet also reported their findings and recommendations on housing and environment, but these subjects are to be treated in othE'r in-d~pth studies. 
The Enrollment task force submitted all of their fin­dings to the COUP committee and their recom­r.,endations were as foJ:ows: 
That undergraduate enrollment be stabilized at 6600 
That the proportion of women and of members of 
disadvantaged ethnic groups enrolled at the 
University be increased. 
That advanced programs concentrate upon im­
provement through greater enrollment selectivity. 
That special efforts be made to maintain the 
enrollment in the Colleges of Engineering and Science 
at a level sufficient to insure a first-rate faculty and 
curriculum. 
That all other things being equal, special admissions 
consideration be continued for relatives of Notre 
Dame alumni and benefactors as well as for children 
of University faculty. 
That a substantial increase be made in the funds 
available to the Admissions Office. 
That solicitation of endowment funds for financial aid 
be continued. 
Fr. David Burrell, chairman of the theology department and chairman of the task force on enrollment, commented on the recommendations of the COUP committee. "The strength of the report is that it laid down the framework but its weakness is that it didn't .come right out and state anything. You have to ead between the lines." 
"I'm not disappointed in it," Burrell stated. "What we have to do now is to begin to solve the problems. We need positive proposals." 
Dan Saracino commented on the importance of the task force report. "Itwas important to get all of these things in print. The general opinion was that students were beating on the door to get into Notre Dame. This isn't so." 



Khmer Rouge tightens grip around Phnom Penh 
by Lynn C. Newland navy and air force, with a com-"Squeezing the arteries," the The insurgents also have in­Communist insurgent movement bined total of 240,000 men, have diplomat remarked, "never really creased their rocket attacks on the here would certainly be weakened 
Phnom Penh <UPil--Signs withstood the initial test of that worked, so they've given up on that capital in an apparent effort to both in war suppplies and scattered throughout this insurgent offensive--but not and are now trying more direct panic the city's refugee-swollen leadership without the support of sprawling capital city proclaim in without some losses-and only over assaults on the capital." population of two million people. the North Vietnamese. English and Khmer that rebel a short period of time. The strategy change has proved President Lon Nol has remained 111111111111111111111111111111111111II11111111111111111111111 forces should "Go Home" and The dry season in Cambodia successful, as insurgent forces are nearly aloof to the deteriorating the observer declare, "We Want Peace." continues until August, and as the closer to Phnom Penh today than situation, making only two 
Night Editor: J. R. Baker

But the insurgents have not gone diplomat remarked, "The fighting at any time in the past. The circle broadcasts to the nation since the away, and peace is more distant thing about this offensive is that around the capital becomes more offensive began in mid-December. 
Assn't Night Editors: Tim

now than it was when the first shot the Khmer Rouge have made so and more constricted. In one broadcast, he urged the 
O'Reiley and Bill Murphy

of the Cambodian was was fired many advances so quickly and so . On the northwest, insurgent· citizens to dig trenches and build nearly four years ago. early." forces are as close as four miles rocket shelters to protect against 
Layout: Clyde Iverson. Mike

In fact, the current military Captures documents and the from the capital and only two miles attacks on the capital by in­
Strickroth, Any Praschak, Dean

offensive launched by insurgent testimony of Khmer Rouge northwest of Pochentong, Cam­surgents. In a second address, the Janke, Mark Fraze!, Marleneforces may pose the most serious prisoners of war have supported bodia 's international airport. Only president said the current military Zlozathreat ever faced by Cambodian the seriousness and intensity of the Air France, Royal Air Cambodia campaign would be decisive in 
Copy Editor: Marlene Zloza

President Lon Nol's government. current offensive. and Air Vietnam have regularly determining the future of Cam­
Day Editor: Gary Allietta

As one Western diplomat The military goal is two fold: scheduled flights into and out of bodia. described the current offensive, The capture of ·the capital of Pochentong. 
The key to the situation could 
Typists: Mary Romer, C. Arrieh,

"The Khmer Rouge Cambodian Phnom Penh and the capitulation The the south, a large rebel force rest in Hanoi. 
Barb Norcross, Tom Modglin, Jeff

Communists have only total of Lon Nol's government. moved within two miles of The insurgent strength, 
McPherson

military victory in mind. They In past offensives, insurgent Chamcar Mon, the presidential estimated at between 30,000 and have maximal war aims, and they forces have tried to strangle the palace on the southern edges of the 40,000 troops, is made up in part of 
Compugraphic: Joe Abell

have an effective, organized arn1y capital by cutting the five major capital, before being pushed back North Vietnamese regulars ser­to carry out their aims. This is road arteries that link Phnom by government troops. ving as advisers, logistics coor­Night Controller: John Flannigancertainly time of military Penh with the'Countryside and by Onthe east side, insurgent forces dinators and, in some cases, field testing, theres no doubt about stopping ship -convoys on the have long maintained control of commanders. Sports: Greg Corgan, Peggythat." Mekong River bringing in supplies .large chunks of territory east of No one knows what Hanoi has in Heidkamp
Thus far, the Cambodian arn1y, from other nations. the Mekong River. 
mind for Cambodia, but the iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIQJUIIIIIIIIIIII 

~------------~­
6 

the observer Tuesday, January 29, 1974 
Third year of program 

Students to help S.B. poor complete taxes 
by Terry Keeney 
Staff Reporter 
For the third consecutive year a ~~··oup nf business and law students an• conducting a program to aid :nw-iPcorne pe1·sons in South Bend 
In  complete  their  income  tax  
fm·r.,s.  The  group,  led  by  ND  
r.,er.,bers  of  the  National  M­ 

f!iiation pf Concerned Business S!udenis, needs undergraduate \·olun(eers !t> staff their program beginning in a week and ending April 15. 

"What we're looking for is someone with a business backgmund," said Mike Carey, a graduate business student with the 
N.A.C.B.S. Yet Carey emphasized that a business background, though helpful, was not necessary. 
The purpose of the program is to save low income families money that they might unnecessarily have spent in taxes. Carey pointed out that many persons are unaware of deductions they can r.>ake. For example he cited that individuals who work in uniform r.>ay deduct the laundry costs for the uniform. 
Student volunteers under the guidance of Certified Public Ac­countants will advise individuals of possible ways to save money. Carey is hopeful that the program can save the average individual $10 to $15. 
"At least we can save him the cost of going down to somebody 

Mardi Gras promised best ever 
costume, but it is a costume party and we hope that as many people 
by Cl,\ de Iverson Staff Reporter 
H112ltlighted hy Black Jack, ;" rH·ifui costur.1es, and plenty of r-•u3ic. ail integra ted into a spirit of ! iving, this year's Mardi Gras pron> ises to be one of the best ever. 
It ail starts this January 31, Thursday night at 9 p.m., in the ba tlroon' of LaFortune Students Center wtth the Irish Mardi Gras' fi1·st costume ball. Tickets are $3.75 a couple and $2.00 for singles and are on sale in both dining halls. 
J .R. Tt,lkiens's "Master Of the Middle-Earth" will serve as the theme of this year's event. Although costumes reflecting this story of dragons and demons are not required, they are strongly suggested. Explained Jan Walt­r.>an, co-ordinator of the '74 Mardi Gras Committee, "We haven't required that students wear a 
Patti Kampsen, SMC election committee chair person , has announced that nominations are now open for the offices of president and vice president of Regina Hall. While presidential nominations can come from either North or South, only North residents are eligible for the vice­presidential post. 
In addition to these positions, nominations are also needed to fill as possible contribute to the spirit of the occasion." 

Although the costume ball will have its share of excitement the Pain event doesn't begin until the tenth, a carnival atmosphere in­cluding poker, black jack and clowns wiil envelop Stephan Center and hopefully the Notre Dame student body. 
Stephen Boy, general chairman of this yea1•'s Mardi Gras, sees the carnival as serving a two-fold purpose, "Traditionally this time of year has been known for its lack of excitement, with Mardi Gras we have hoped to change that, also, 
thesecharities here at Notre Dame, such as CILA , Manasa, Neigh­borhood Study Program, St. Maria's School and other have been in need of additional financial suppm·t, we hope to provide some of that support." 
Boys's goal is a contribution of 
three positions on Student Assembly. On representative each is needed from LeMans, Holy Cross and McCandless Halls. 
All nominations will be openfrom 8:00a.m. Jan. 28 through midnight February 6. Elections will take place on Thursday, Feb. 6. those interested may submit their names to Patti Kampsen, Box 910 Le Mans or call 5704. 

Senior Bar Victory Party 
after Marquette Tuesday & de Paul Thursday 
25~
Wine Coolers Schnapps 
$10,000 to the various campus charities. "If we can reach this f"Oal, I think the '74 Mardi Gras will be an overwhelming success," said Boy. 
But Boy added that reaching that goal wi li be difficult. "So [ar the sale of raffl'e tickets, one of our r.,ajor sources of income, has been disappointing. But we hope that will change this week. Also, it is hard to predict how much money we wili receive from the costume party and the gamblirng booths." 
But of course, how much money can be generated from the various activities depends directly on the enthusiasm of the Irish and if the number of students working on the construction of the booths is any indication of that enthlllsiasm the commission should come very close to realizing their goal. 
"The construction is going f"reat," observed Boy. "One look at the progress we have made would show how enthused and dedicated these people are." Boy clairned that he and his staff have been working 60 to 70 hours a week on the preparations. "Of course, we can always use additional help, and eve1·yone is welcome." 
"We'll be giving away a 1974 Chevrolet Impala, and all the r.1oney you can win at the tables", 
stressed Boy, " plus con­tributing to the campus charities. So come out, have a good time, and spend your money." 

iike H. and R. Block," Carey .ob­served. 
In conjunction with community agencies such as the Model Cities program, "action centers" will be established throughout the city to handle the tax returns. 
"We'll have a center program for the entire eleven weeks until April 15," said Carey, "with five strategically placed centers throughout the city." Extra centers will be added during peak periods. 
Volunteers will be asked to staff the centers for a given number of four hour time slots at their con­venience during the eleven-week program. 
Two years ago in its initial trial the program included 30 volun­teers who helped 200 individuals with their taxes. 
"We're hoping to double that figure of persons helped again," Carey explained. "The more people we get to come in, the more this will become a well-established activity." 
Professor Kenneth Milani of the accounting department will conduct a training session in tax iaw for all volunteers Wednesday night at 7:30p.m. in room 105 of the Law School. All students regar­dless of major are invited. 



Acareer in law­
WithOUt laW SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the six courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 500 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 40 cities. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant. we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 

THURSDAY,FEBRUARY14 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 Soulh 17th Street. Philadelphia. Pennsylvania 19103 
(215) 732-6600 
AG 0035 


Sales thru Sunday February 3

I 

Phone: 259-0880

Shop: Monday-Saturday 10-10, Sunday 10-8 
100 Center Complex Mishawaka 
In the Old Kamm's Brewery 

LONDON P~RIS ~NTWERP. ROTTERDAM SYDNEY MELBOURNE. TORONTO. MONTREAL. VANCOUVER. NEW YORK BOSTON MIAMI. PHILIOELPHIA CHICAGO DETROIT PITTSBURGH. HOlJST~to4; ~A.~~~$' f'~Of."Jl~ '$'A,M f~A,t11f~C9 _!;~AWE: l'OS .ANG~LES · · 



Tuesday, January 29, 1974 the observer 
7 

St. Marys art department JOlDS NASA 

The department of art of Saint Mary's College, has been elected to membership in the National Association of Schools of Art <NASA), becoming the first Catholic college or university and one of the few women's schools to be selected for membership. 
George Cullar, president of Philadelphia College of Art and current president of NASA has officially advised Dr. Edward L. Henry, president of Saint Mary's College of the membership ap­proval by the Board of Directors of NASA. 
Composed of leading nonprofit art schools, college and university art departments, and artists from all parts of the United States, NASA includes only 66 member schools, and is the only agency which accredits programs in art. 
The criteria for the award in­clude the educational objectives of the department, the methods l:\Y which these are pursued, and the· attendant success. An indication of this success is "the excellence of the creative work produced by students" which the organization deems "the best determinant of the adequacy of the studio and laboratory studies." 
The National Association also considered the number of students "who should evidence not only creative ability and educational skill, but also a committment to the world of art, and an awareness of the new forces working in the academic world at large." 132 students are currently majoring in art, and more than 600 of the College's 1500 students are enrolled in art courses. 
In addition to evaluating the students and their work, the National Association also con­sidered the qualifications of the faculty, their background, "ability to communicate knowledge and insights effectively, and the validity of a teacher's qualifications to teach a studio subject and the teacher's in­volvement as a practicing artist." 
Headed by Sister Rose EBen Morrissey, CSC, department chairoerson, the art faculty includ.es 6 full time professors and instructors, 5 part time faculty members, and an art gallery director. The College's Rome campus has 10 art majors and 2 faculty members. In addition, the institution's Tucson campus has 2 faculty n1ernbers. 
Recogni7ing that "all of the n1any areaa of art today" are "of equal conPen1 and importance" NA£A haE fi-te rlivisions. Saint Mary's is a men~ber of Division II, a group of schools which "offer the pra<:ti<:e of art as a substantial instructiOnal component in a liberal arts education." In ad­dition to their interest in the liberal arts, members of group II are interested in both the art major and nonmajor. 
In contrast, group I is composed of professional art schools which have less interest in academic courses. In both groups a majority of students are enrolled full time for four years in a degree program in an institution which gives evidence of permanence and stability. 
The National Association of 

For community needs 
SMC service center organized 
Realizing the need for a more service, noted, "This center will totally involved community, a serve several functions. In­group of St. Mary's students have formation will be available for organized a new Student Service a1·eas including photography,
and Information Center. c1·afts, car maintenance, 
Patti Kampsen, director of the budgeting and protection." Referral sources for academic, caree1·, medical and drug in-

N York Offers
9W · . 'Tormation wil be provided. 
h. 
"There will be an additional side urbQD f9 11. OWS · lp tothecenter."Kan1psenwentonto 
•
lD govemme·nt 
by Mary Pat Sullivan Staff Reporter 

Any senior or graduate student interested in city government has been invited by the New York City Urban Fellowship to apply for a position as Urban Fellow in the 1974-75 academic year. 
An Urban Fellow is essentially a student of the New York City government and spends the academic year, from ·September through June, working with a City agency four days a week and participating in a seminar on the fifth day. Seminars are conducted by speakers from all areas of the City government and also by in­terested persons living in the New York City area. 
The program is organized and financed by the City of New York which provides a stipend of $4000 for each Fellow as well as tran­sportation to and from the City. Various universities also par­ticipate by contributing an ad­ditional $500 to the stipend and granting academic credit. 
This information has been communicated to The Observer Office through a letter from The City of New York, Office of the Mayor. Any senior or graduate student wishing to apply is directed to obtain an application from the Financial Aid or Fellowship Office at his respective university or write to: 
Dr. Leonard Loft, Director New York City Urban Fellowship 250 Broadway New York, New York 10007 
The deadline for applying is February 15. 
The letter closes with the comment "The past years have shown that the Urban Fellows learned much from their ex­periences and have also con­tributed to the improvement of c'ity government." 
. explain "Through a questionnaire designed to assess the needs of the community, it was shown that care and concern by and for fellow students should be provided for problems significant to the in­dividual. These areas include relationships and social ad­justments." The staff of the center will be 
trained to handle problems in the a1·eas 1·equired. Training will be provided by the counseling department, the health services, the campus ministry and volun leers with a background in listening skills, and in personal and drug problems. 
The center will be a combination phone and walk in center. All calls will be handled solely by students from both campuses. These calls will be received in strict con fidence. 

The first training session will be held on Wednesday January 30, at 7:00pm, in the Regina Auditorium. 
Those interested in working for the center should attend the training session or contact Patti Kampsen at 5704. 



SERVICE SPECIAL 
:---~.....­

COUPON :
•· WITH WJTH COUPON :·· ft.W'eEWITH COUPON ···~ 
l IUIE RELIIIIC l

:~:.=~ 
MOST 
1 AMERICAN ~: 

lii;:! 1~~~==~;,.. ~~:s • 1 
. . 
CARS

1 : : 
: ·•. $2915 

: :~ ~.~~ ~-~~L~U~AS.:
sa.95 : ~
:~~~L~=·,.t"~;~~~~:: 
INCLUDES FULL IN­

: COND£NSIER, CHIECK :
PARTS EXTRA 

• CHOK£, TIM£ IENGIH£, 1 SPECTION, FLUID
:..,________________,___ _

If" NEEUEO : BALANCE CAR8UR£TOA : ..,..0 CLEAN. WE ALSO 
.......................... 
L...~~':~:~_o_•!i:.~:~;_:;__ .. 

: • • 
ftliif.l~i!WQ.IIIQ.l t; · • ·: r·· ....
. 
: Z 5 0 000 MILE GUARANTEE :

MUFFLERS:





·-·······--: ~ 
1 BUY 3 ~~ l 

$10.95 
i SHOCIS ~~ 
l GET ~ l

r plus ~ installation ~ 1 FREE ! . 
l 

'II 
:REG. $7.77 EACH: 

FOR MOST AMERICAN 
~ INSTALLED 
i

·········-················ ...•...••.:!:'!~•........! 
Brand new 4-ply tires start at $12.95 
650-13 plus $1.81 tax 

·= Phone 272-1023 CIIUI' PIIIICTS IT CllU P'IIIC£S IS II URUI.I arn u1u 'TILL 1. s.n. 'TIL 4 
U. .....Kts &1 ~WW PIIC£$ IS • IAIUII 
8 TRACK TAPES $2.75 

DISCOUNT TIRE SERVICE 
50595 U.S. 31 lorth, South lend, Indiana 
Schools of Art was founded in 1944 by Richard F. Bach, dean of education of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. In 1948 the title National Association of Schools. of Design was adopted, along with a system of visiting members apd candidates for membership by a team of professional artist­educators. 
Founding members included the 
Boston Museum of Fine Arts, the 
Art Institute of Chicago, and Pratt 
Institute. In 1960, to more ac­
curately reflect the broad interests 
of an expanding organization, the 
name was changed to National 
Association of Schools of Art. The 
present five divisions were created I in 1969. 

HELP! ! ! ! 

We need you to help build Mardi Gras booths! Tonight 7-12 at Stepan Center. "The road goes ever on ond on ... " Bilbo Baggins 

-


---·-----·----. -----~------~
----·--------~ 
the observer Tuesday, January 29, 1974
8 


Irish host fifth-ranked Warriors 
by Greg Corgan mere 57.6 points per game while potential to become one of college scol'ing a healthy 72.9 themselves. basketball's premiere players. The last time Marquette and 
"If Luke will pay the price, heThe Warriors •·ely on defense,Notre Dame got together, the Irish 

can be a super player," said the

something they had to do againstended an 81 game home winning 
Marquette head coach. "He has

Long Beach State when they only streak for the Waniors with the 
unreal talent, but he has to become 

shot 25 per cent ( 20 out of 80) fromfirst of the now famous last second 
more physicaL He's not as rough

the floor, when the going getsDwight Clay jump shots. Although tough, and tonight's contest underneath as he could be." 
the ND home win streak isn't quite promises just that. 

So far Lucas has been plentyas i111pressive, 13 in a row to be 
"rough." He leads the Warriors

exact, it can be certain coach Al "The Notre Dame game should McGu\re and his Marquette team be a white-knuckler ," offered ' 
in scoring, 16.7 ppg. and reboun­ding, 10.6 per game, and alongwill be ready to return the favor McGuire. "It should go down to 

with forwards Earl TatUim and Bo
tonight when the Warriors visit the the wire." 
Ellis gives MU an impressive front 
ACC. Game time is at 8 o'clock. 

While Marquette may be used to 
line. Ellis, a 6·9 freshman,
The Warriors bring with them an those "white-knuckle" situations, 

averages 11.9 ppg. and pulls down 
ir.1pressive 16-l record along with <MU had a 67-65 overtime victory 

8.3 rebounds per game, and the
the nun1be•· five ranking in the over Tennessee, an OT win over 

contest between him and Adrian
country. Their latest effort 

Wisconsin, 49-48, the 60-58 loss to 
Dantley will provide a meeting of
produced a victory against Loyola Carolina and the 54-52 win over two of the most highly-regardediast Saturday, and before that MU Long Beach State) the Irish have freshmen in the country. Againstknocked off national power Long had their share of close calls as 

Long Beach State, Ellis outscored, 
Beach State 54-52 in Milwaukee well. And the Irish have Dwight 

13-4, and outrebounded 8-7,
Arena. The only Marquette loss Clay. 
another top freshman, the 49ers
!his season came at the hands of 
Clifton Pondexter.

rhe South Carolina Gamecocks, 60-At McGuire is hoping it won't 
58 in Columbia. come down to that again this year, The Marquette starting lineup is 
With the exception of Long and with his strong, talented team, 
rounded out by backcourt ace 

Beach State, South Carolina, and he's going to try and make sure. 
senior and captain Marcus

NPtre Dame, however, the . , . . . . 
Washington, and sophomore Lloyd 

Warriors schedule can hardly be The Warnor s big gun 1s JUmor 
Walton. Both are capable of high

considered strenuous. Still, they center Maurice Lucas (6-8, 205) 
point productions, but should they

have allowed their opponents a who McGuire says has the 
faulter, coach McGuire has senior

1ohn Fineran:~='=~:~=~:~:~:~=~::::::::::::=:=:=:============:==='====:=='==='='='=·:=:':':'=·=:::::::::::=:===:=:=:=:=:= Ed Daniels at his disposal as well as forwards Rick Campbell and Jerry Homan. 
The Irish meanwhile hope to

Blarney Stone(d) 
rebound from last weekend's loss to top-rated UCLA and will go with the usual starting lineup of Dan­tley, Clay, John Shumate, Gary Brokaw,and'Goose" Novak. Un­doubtedly coach Digger PhelpsInterviewer: Sir, would you please identify yourself. 

wiil also give forward Billy
Interviewee: 'My name is Richard M. Nixon. 
Paterno and guard Ray Martin 
Interviewer: What is your present occupation? 
some playing time in tunight's
Interviewee: I am a telephone installer. 
contest, and hopefully, they won't 

Interviewer: Yes, but weren't you otherwise employed four months 
have to worry about a "white­
ago? 
knuckler." 

Interviewee: I was. Four months ago, I ruled the nation and the world 
as President of the United States. Interviewer: What happened to your last occupation? Interviewee: I was impeached. And I resigned. Interviewer: I see. Was it because of an implication in the Watergate 
conspiracy? 

N~, "~!.'f!Stl ~.!~..lfec:~, ~~';(' ~!~~t~,~
Interviewee: On the contrary. It was because of my discrimination Dave Boyer tied his opponent 3-3. were defeated 9-5 and 4-3. A pin by 
against certain people. Notre Dame's stellar wrestling Three ND successes followed to John Down brightened the picture Interviewer: And what class of persons was that? team lengthened its dual meet give the Irish a lead which they for t~e Irish but, it was shortlived Interviewee: Northerners, specifically citizens of the great State of victory chain nine straight before never relinquished. At 150, Fritz as R1ck Sheetz was downed 8-3. 
Indiana. 

dropping a close contest with St. Bruening triumphed 3.2, Rich Throughtout the meet, a number Interviewer: Who brought about this proceedings of impeachment? 
Francis this past weekend. Vic-Gilloon pinned the opposition in of questionable calls were made,Was it Peter Rodino, congressman from New Jersey? 
tol'ies over Wheaton College and 4:03, and John Dowd made it look and it was after Sheetz' contest Interviewee: No, it was John Brademas, a representative from Nor­
Duquesne preceded the 24-23 loss easy in the 167 division, that Coach Pechek took issue on ' hern Indiana. 
so the Irish slate in mentor Fred smothering his man 18.2. one particular call. As Pechek Interviewer: Can you reconstruct your impeachment? 
Pechek's first year now reads 10 Wheaton's Randy Ellison captured posed the question, the referee Interviewee: Well, it started on New Year's Eve. I placed a long­wins and two losses for dual meet the 177 weight on an 11_2 decision subtacted one point from the Irish 
distance call from my San Clemente estate to New Orleans, specifically 
action over Pete Meade. Irishman Rick totaL As it turned out, the point
Tulance Stadium. I was attempting to get in touch with Paul Bryant, the Against Wheaton the Irish won 7 She~tz gathered 13 points at 190 proved to be the margin of victory head coach of Alabama, to wish him and his team luck against Notre 
of the 10 classes en route to a 31-15 pounds while holding the op-with St. Francis coming out on topDame's football team, which resides in Congressman Brademas' district. 
conquest. Because of an injury position to but 2. Mike Fanning 24-23. 
Unfortunately, my phone call never got through to Bear. I wish it had. 
sustained in practice Monday, finished the action with a pin at the At Rocek won by forfeit for theInterviewer: Why is that? 
Notre Dame's 118 pound Skip 3:37 mark. second time in as many meets at Interviewee: Well, when I missed connections, Bear tried to return my Mondragon was forced to . By humiliating Duquesne 43-9, 190 point and Mike FanningcalL Unfortunately, he made connections with my former Vice­forfeit in the 126 class. Mike the 1973-74 grapplers set the new earned his fifth pin in as manypresident, Spiro Agnew. He told Bryant that I had suggested Alabama consecutive victory mark for the contests Fanning, the junioruse a quarterback-throwback play. The quarterback would hand the ball University of Notre Dame. The old football carry-over, holds the NDoff to the halfback and would head upfield for a pass from the halfback. Fencers stay record of six was broken two weeks •·ecord number of pins in oneInterviewer: Alabama used the play, sir. Then your impeachment ago against DePauw. Four of the season 04), matches without a loss eame about because Brademas believed you had consulted with this unbeaten eight matches won by the Irish (26) and fastest pin (19) seconds). 
undesirable. 

The Notre Dame fencing team were on pins. Undefeated Dave He seems on his way toward im­Interviewee: Actuall&', no. Spiro got the play from Frank Sinatra. I 
continued its torrid pace this past Boyer, did the job in 4:30. FJ:itz proving those records he set as a was going to warn Bear of a tackle-trap pass from the endzone that I weekend as it soundly defeated Blluening did it in 4:05 and R1ch freshman.
'hough! Ara Parseghian would use. 

Tri-State, Indiana, Purdue and Gilloon, at 158, trapped his op­
Interviewer: It is not quite clear, sir, to the readers of this interview, The grappling Irish are among
Miami of Ohio. The victories put ponent in 4 minutes, 15 seconds.
why you were impeached. 13 teams entered in the National
the Irish at 6-0. · Mike Fanning lost no time in
Interviewee: Well, as you remember, Notre Dame used the play late in Catholic Tournament at Cleveland
gaining his win. The big Junior"This week we face Wisconsin­
rhe game to save its victory. this weekend and return home
pinned his opponent in a mere 2:07.
Parkside, and they have excellent 

Interviewer: How did you know Parseghian would call that particular February 7 against Western 
play? foil personnel," says Coach Mike Notre Dame received two forfeits Michigan. DeCicco. Our foil team will be put.
Interviewee: Well, it's a long story. When I was young, I wanted to but lost one. Mondragon was not 
to its first real test agailnst them.

play football at Notre Dame. I was inspired by Ronald Reagan's por­yet ready at 118 but John Dowd got 
What we do this week will tell us a

lrayal of George Gipp in the movies. However, the school wouldn't give the free 6 points as did Al "Ace" 
I like to think epee, being our the
r.1e an athletic scholarship. Consequently, I went to Whittier College. lot. Rocek, former heavyweight 
Ali unaminous 

Interviewer: Would you please answer why you knew Parseghian ... number one weapon, will have at who has dropped weight and was to 
Interviewee: Well, I was disappointed. I vowed if I ever got to be least as good a performance as have his debut at 190. Mike Haws 
they had this last week. We have to and Rick Sheetz came up with the
President, I would make Notre Dame pay. So, therefore, I had the CIA 

over Frazier 
know who our best fencers are."

bug his office while they bugged Ted Hesburgh's office, too. two decisions by 17-7 and 12-5 Interviewer: So that's why you were impeached. margins, respectively. At 126,
This weekend Notre Dame In a classic rerun of their first
Interviewee: Well, part of the reason. Brademas also found out that I travels to Wisconsin to take on the Steve Moylan fell 9-6. fight, Muhammad Ali got his did not call Parseghian to congratulate him. Instead, I called Bo 
University of Illinois Circle Again, against St. Francis Notre revenge, winning a close but
Schembechler. 

Campus, Milwaukee Tech and Dame handed over 6 free points at unanimous decision over JoeInterviewer: Why Bo? His team didn't even go to a bowl game. 
Wisconsin Parkside in a four-team 118. Dan Heffernan was beaten 5-2 Frazier before an emotionallyInterviewee: Well, my Vice-President then, Gerald Ford, is an bout. The Irish defeated UICC last and Mike Haws was pinned after charged throng at Madison Squarealumnus of Michigan.
.· week 21-6, but they have not met 4: 14 so it was Dave Boyer who Garden Monday night. The
Interviewer: I see. Well, now we know of your impeachment. Thank 
the other two teams. Over the earned the first ND Points. The scoring saw Judge Tony Castellani you for your time.. 
years, Notre Dame owns a 7-0 sophomore from Lake Orion, call it 7-4-1; Judge Jack Gordon, 8­Interviewee: You're welcome. Can you tell me where the hockey and mark over Milwaukee Tech and a Michigan, pinned St. Francis' Dan 4; and Referee Tony Perez, 6-5-1­basketball offices are? I have to install some phones. 
5-0 record against Wisconsin. Knepp. In the next two classes, all for Ali. UPI had it 7-4-1. 







