OD The Inside 
World Series 
... page 5 
Letters 
... page 9 
Vol. IX, No. 37 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Friday, October 18, 1974 

------------------------------------...... ~~~~.--.~~~~---~~~~~~~~~....., 
To trustees 


Student leaders report on state of student life 
by Jim Eder and Pat Flynn Staff Reporters 
Seven student leaders headed by SBP Pat McLaughlin presented a 70­page report detailing the state of student life at Notre Dame to the Student Affaris Committee of the Board of Trustees yesterday. This report will be discussed by the complete Board of Trustees today. 
The report, which contains various statements, news articles and correspondence relating to student life, concluded with a proposal for a special committee on undergraduate priorities to be commissioned by the Board of Trustees to study five major areas of concern: academics, coeducation. finances, residentiality and student life. 
Students propose special committee 
The proposal calls for the formation of a 20-member committee, consisting of ten students, five administrators and five faculty members. The chairman of the committee would be one of the non-resident trustees sitting on the Student Affairs Committee. 
The student representatives would be selected by McLaughlin, the administrators by Vice President for Student Affairs Br. Just Paczesny, and the faculty members by Faculty Senate Chairman James Cushing. 
The proposed committee on undergraduate priorities would be divided into five sub­committees consisting of two students, one administrator and one faculty member. The chairman would then assign one of the five major areas of concern to each of the sub­committees. 
All subcommittee findings would be reported to the chairman in writing. These reports would then be available for presentation by the chairman at a March meeting of the Student Affairs Committee, according to the proposal. 
Decision in two weeks 
Dr. Thomas Carney, chairman of the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees, indicated that the committee had agreed to report back to McLaughlin within two weeks on what it intends to do about the student proposal. 
Carney, a pharmaceutical executive from Skokie, Ill., stated after yesterday's meeting that the committee is "in sympathy" with the student proposal. He pointed out, that he is not yet prepared to recommend the proposal to the Board of Trustees. 
"It is inapproporiate for us to make a recommendation to the Board without first hearing the Board's full recommendation concerning the COUP report," he explained. 
"Part of the COUP report concersn student affairs. We do not know yet what the Board of Trustees is going to recommend to our committee as a result of that report." Carney continued. "This will be one of the topics of tommorrow's meeting of the entire board," he said last night. 
Paul Hellmuth, another one of the trustees on the Student Affairs Committee, affirmed Carney's statement that the student proposal would not be recommended to the Board of Trustees today. 
"The timing of this proposal is awkward," Hellmuth noted. "The members of the Board of Trustees sitting on this committee have not time to formulate adequate response to the proposal before the Board meeting," he said. 
Possible changes 
As a slight ammendment to the original student proposal both Carney and Hellmuth suggested that each of the trustees on the Student Affairs Committee be included as members of the five sub-committees of the proposed committe on undergraduate priorities. "It is im­portant for the trustees as well as faculty and administrators to be educated about the state of student life." Carney said. 
Hellmuth stated his willingness to work and his desire for theroposal to be quickly enacted. "We are prepared to spend time looking deeply into these problem areas of student life," he stressed. 
Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant to the provost, stated that she agreed "Wholeheartedly with the content" of the student presentation. "Their concerns are my concerns," she said. Jones pointed out, however, that "the mechanics can be simplified by handling things through the already existing structures of the Board of Trustees." 
The assistant to the provost emphasized her desire to be involved in the study of student life, particularly in the area of coeducation. "I have lots to say and lots to learn," she said. 
Student presentation praised 
Br. Just Paczesny, vice president of student affairs and a trustee, said the "the presentation of the student leaders was very well thought out, practical and worthy of implementation. 
"The proposal of creating a committee on undergraduate priorities has great merit," Paczesny continued. "I will do everything I possibly can to assist in the development of that committee or one similar to it," he stated. 
Carney noted that yesterday's student presentation to the committee was the most extensive ever given by students. "The present group of students is less an adversary than earlier student groups," he said. 
"In the last few years there has been far more agreement between the reports of Student Government and the Office of Student Affairs," Carney Said. He pointed out that the students have always presented a report independent of that given by Student Affairs. 
Student affairs committee make-up 
The Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees meets biannually in October and May. These meetings are attended by eight members of the Board of Trustees, members of the Office of Student Affairs, the Student Body President and Vice President, the Observer ' Editor-in-Chief, am "flecially chosen student representatives. The trustee members report to the full body of the B,,.,wa &1 Trustees on the meeting. ~ 
This year the student presentation was given by McLaughlin, Student Body Vice President Frank Flanagan, Observe•· Editor-in-Chief Tom Drape, HPC Chairman Bob Howl, SLC 
Golden Anniversary of ND Four Horselllen 

"Outlined against a blue-gray October sky, the Four Horsemen rode again. In 
dramatic lore they are known as Famine, Pestilence, Destruction and Death. 
These are only aliases. Their real names are Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and 
Layden. They formed the crest of the South Bend cyclone before which another 
fighting Army football team was swept over the precipice at the Polo Grounds 
yestercfay afternoon as 55,000 spectators peered down on the besildering panorama 
spread below." 

Fifty years ago today, the most famous backfield in collegiate football history 
Jed Notre Dame to a 13-7 victory over the Army at the Polo Grounds and inspired a 
sportswriter named Grantland Rice to pound out the above words on his typewriter 
thus immortalizing one of Notre Dame's greatest football legends. ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--­
.... 

Ford denies he offered 'deal' to pardon Nixon 
WASHINGTON (UPJ) -In a historic appearance on a congressional committee wit­ness stand, President Ford Thursday flatly denied that he had made any "deal" to pardon Richard M. Nixon in return for his resignation. · 
In his testimony, which he said he hoped would not become a precedent for violat­ing the confidentiality of the Oval Office, Ford repeated his belief that acceptance of the pardon had amounted to an admission of guilty on Nixon's part. 
He also repeated his belief that for Nixon to have been the first President in history to resign in "shame and dis­grace," rather than face virtually certain impeachment removal from office, was punishment enough-for any man. 
Ford had volunteered to do what no other chief executive has done before -give formal testimony and submit · to the questioning of a congressional panel. 
His journey to the House judiciary subcommittee hearing room on Capitol Hill was a few minutes drive from the White House. But because it crossed the lines separating the bran­ches of government, it was a trip which no other President has ever taken. 
He said that a few days before Nixon resigned, he and former White House Chief of Staff Alexander M. Haig had promises. And under question­ing by Rep. Elizabeth Holt­zman, D-N.Y., he declared: 
"I want to assure you and members of this subcommittee, members of the Congress, and the American people, that there was no deal, period. Under no circumstance." 
And at another point, he declared: "I assure you that there never was at any time any agreement whatsoever concerning a pardon to Mr. Nixon if he were to resign and I wen~ to become President." Democrats on the House Judiciary subcommittee gener­ally agreed after testimony from President Ford Thursday they want to hear from other witnesses about the pardon of former President Richard M. Nixon. 
Republicans on the nine-member subcommittee disa­greed, especially with a propos­al for a face-to-face session with former White House aide Alexander M. Haig Jr. 
Ford said he discussed the pardon issue with Haig before absolving Nixon of any blame for Watergate. 
Subcommittee chairman Wil­liam L. Hungate. D-Mo., said Special Prosecutor Leon Jawor­ski would he called to testify after an upcoming congression­al recess but declined to say whether he would call Haig. 
No committee member sug­gested after the two-hour hearing that Ford had not told the truth about his decision­
l
I
, 
1 
Representative Darlene Palr:la, Student Union Director Patrick Burke and Observer Con-discussed a pardon as one of a making process in the Nixon t.ributing Editor Ann '.1cCarry. (continued on page 5) ; number of possibilities. 
(continued on page 3) 

-.-..-.~·-~... mw.......,.,-...~.1 
But he said there had been no 

Friday, October 18, 1974
the observer
2 
warld briefs 
TOLEDO Ohio <UPIJ--U.S. District Court Judge Don Young Thursday denied a request by former Gov. James A. Rhodes to keep secret a deposition on the Kent State University shootings until after the November election. 
WASHINGTON <UPI )--Eighty-three draft resisters due to re­enter prison Thursday have been granted a second 30-day furlough to take advantage of President Ford's amnesty program, the Bureau of Prisons announced. 

an campus taday 
friday, october 18, 1974 12-1 p.m.--ice skating, free, nd ice rink 
12:15 p.m.--lecture, "the Inter-university consortium on political research: a social science data archive" by prof. g. bishop, lib. lounge 
3:30 p.m.--seminar, "grantsmanship: first principles" by dr. g. e. brosseau, nat'l sci. foundation, galvin aud. 
s p.m.--vespers, evensong, log chapel s p.m.--mass and dinner, bulla shed 
6:30 p.m.--pep rally, stepan 
7 p.m.--meeting, "navigators," non-denominational christ­centered fellowship, flanner penthouse Bp.m.--travellogue, "hiking thru Italy" rudl thurau, o'laughlin aud. 9 -1 a.m.--coffeehouse, smc, sail, jim rutter, mel wesley, josh 
kellaher, basement of smc cafe 
saturday, october 19, 1974 11 a.m.--multi-media show, "notre dame In review" wash. hall 
1:30 p.m.--football, nd outflanks, outguns, and outmans army cadets, stadium 
7 & 9 p.m.--film, "godspeil," $1.25, o'laughlin aud. 1, 9, & 11 p.m.--film, "Three In the attic," eng. aud. 
8:30 p.m.--concert, mac davis, $6.50, $5.50, & $4, ace 
sunday, october 20, 1974 
4:30 p.m.--vespers, evensong, lady chapel 7, 9, & 11 p.m.--film, "the graduate," $1 eng. aud. 
7:30 p.m.--film, chinese student association, lib. aud. 8 p.m.--recital, harpsichord by dr. a. lawrence, stapleton lounge 
SMC council meets today 
by Dennis Kelly 
Staff Reporter 
Student recruitment and career planning and placement head the list of topics being discussed by the Executive Committee of the St. Mary's College Parent's Council today. The committee, made up of 30 couples, is meeting in LeMans Hall. 
Sr. Ellen Delores Lynch, St. Mary's vice-president for public relations and development, stated that the purpose of the meeting is "to give practical support to what the college is doing and to com­municate more effectively with all parents of students." 
The Parent's Council, which consists of all parents of current St. Mary's Students, was formed in 1966. Its executive committee also meets in the spring , and publishes a newsletter semi­annually. 
Sondej continues dining hall charity collection for needy 
by Ken Girouard Drought Relief program to help Staff Reporter combat the Sahel Drought, which is in its sixth year. Each year this Every day AI Sondej, a Notre drought has become progressively Dame graduate, stands in front of more critical, as more land the dining halls and asks for becomes useless for crop 
donations for the world's poor. production. While much livestock LaSt year during Lent, Sondej 
has been lost, the focus of the relief collected 2,000 dollars in a 40 day effort is centered around the period. So far this year, he has 
preservation of human life. collected 2,507.51 dollars in a As thousands ot families desen period of 32 days. their farmlands in search of food, The money which Sondej collects one noticeable problem is the lack is donated to three different relief of cooking and food-serving organizations: the Catholic Relief facilities. Through funds donated, Services, CARE and UNICEF. such as those from Notre Dame, More specifically, the donations by CARE is undertaking a project to Notre Dame students have gone to provide basic utensils to displaced the West African drought situation, families. primarily in Niger. Most of Notre Dame's donations, The students' money has been however, have gone to the funneled into CARE's Niger distribution of 553,460 pounds of 

New liturgy continues at St. Mary's this Sunday 
by John Villeneuve Staff Reporter 
The second of a new Sunday evening liturgy in Holy Cross Hall <SMCl will be celebrated at 7:30p.m. in the hall basement this weekend. The first mass was celebrated last Sunday by Father Tom Stella and this week's celebrant will be Father Gorski, rector ·of Howard Hall, and we are getting some help from Campus Ministry. Holy Cross residents will be baking bread for communion, preparing the liturgy, and organizing the music around a central theme. Also, we are making arrangements for dif­ferent priests at St. Mary's Notre Dame, and outside the community to say mass," said liturgy coordinator, Mary Beth Imler. 
The mass will be informal in that students will and gather around the altar to celebrate the Eucharist. After the mass,there will be a get-together and refresh­ments will be served. This will give the students a chance to form new friendships in a relaxed at­mosphere" Imler continued. The sucess of the mass depends on the participaton of both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students. This will allow the students not only the opportunity to celebrate mass together on Saint Mary's campus but it is an attempt to initiate different times adn places where 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame .nd St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor $9 per semester ($16 per year) from ·The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second clus postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
COME TO TI-E BULLA SHED AN> BRING A FRIEN> mass & dinner every friday 5 
people can come togetnr in an 
atmosphere of openness and 
communication." 
"The idea of the mass is to form within the community a time whereby students can come together. and share in the Spirit 
allowing them the chance to create their own expression of giving," she emphasized ­
"Holy Cross residents want to make this a beginning in opening their dorm to ND studnts so that they will also feel welcome on the Saint Mary's campus." 
ready-to-eat high protein food to the drought victims. This food comes from the United States in the form of large crackers sealed in metal containers. 
In addition to the food, ND students have aided in the distribution of medical supplies and drugs to overworked medical facilities in rural areas. For example, CARE has distributed 28,940 pounds of basic drugs, in­struments, bandages and other essential supplies to these medical stations. 
With the aid of money collected at Notre Dame this year, CARE will undertake a project to drill water wells for irrigation and drinking in an area of Niger where there is abundant sub-surface water. 
Sondej, who has been collecting since September 15th, is pleased with this year's student response. "It's doing a lot better this year than last year," he said, "we had $2000 in 40 days last year and that was very good. This year we've collected $2,507.51 in only 32 days." 
He added that he plans to collect throughout the year this time. 
"It's really impressive to see students care for someone they'll never see," Sondej said. He hopes to make students become more aware of the world situation, and he urges students to read an article in today's SCHOLASTIC per­taining to generalized conditions in the world and the efficiency of relief organizations such as CARE, UNICEF and the Catholic Relief Services. 

.............................................. 
: IVJICHIGAN STREET : : ADULT THEATRES i 
! X 2 F1LNB : 
. .
~ 

: X :so~.~~. : 
i .X LIVE FLCXE SHOW i 
: 1316 S<XJI"H MICHIGAN STREET : i.!?.!-.~.~!~:.1.~R~..f9.~.lf!Jf.P.KMAJJgnj· 
Friday, October 18, 1974 the observer 
Rockefeller elected to Trustees 

John D. Rockefeller IV, Chinese at Yale University. He economic development plan for the president of West Virginia entered government service in 1962 state. Following an unsuccessful Wesleyan College, and Dr. Percy as assistant director of the Peace bid for governor in 1972, 
A. Pierre, dean of the School of Corps and then served in the Far Rockefeller became president of Engineering at Howard University East Section of the State Depart­West Virginia Wesleyan in March, have been elected trustees of the ment. A resident of West Virginia 1973. He is a trustee of the University of Notre Dame. since 1964, he was elected to its Rockefeller Foundation and of the Rockefeller was graduated from House of Delegates in 1966 and University of Chicago. He and his Harvard with a bachelor's degree secretary of state two years later. wife, tne former Sharon Percy of in Far Eastern Languages and As secretary of state, he Wilmette, Ill., live with their three Oriental History and subsequently spearheaded legal and voting children in Buckhannon, W. Va. studied J in . and reforms and ,developed an Dr. Pierre received his B.S. and M.S. in electrical engineering from Notre Dame and his Ph.D. from The John Hopkins University. He was a staff member of the RAND Corporation from September, 1968, to April, 1971. During this period he also served on a leave of absence, as a 

White House Fellow in the Office 

Dr. O.C. Carmichael Jane P. Cahill
of the President. He has been dean of engineering at Howard 
C. Carmichael, Jr. ·south Bend year term on the Indiana Higher
University in Washington, D.C., 
Ind., chairman of the board of Education Commission. Long
since April. 1971. Since July, 1973, 
Associates Corporation of North activ~ in the Republican Party,
he has been giving half-time to the 
America. A graduate of Van­Carmichael is treasurer of its
Sloan Foundation, administering a 
derbilt University, Carmichael National Committee and was
major new program to increase 
received his M.A. and Ph. D. from recently appointed by President
minority participation in 
Columbia, with his doctoral degree Ford to serve as a member of theengineering. 
in law and government. From 1956 U.S. delegation to the 29th session
Reelected a Notre Dame trustee 
to his appointment as Associates of the ·u.N. General Assembly.
by the Fellows of the University
John D. Rockefeller Dr. Percy Pierre board chairman in 1960, he was
cduring their meeting was Dr. 0. Also elected a trustee was Jane
president of Converse College, P. Cahill, vice president forSpartanburg, N.C. He joined Notre communications for InternationalDame's Lay Board of Trustees in Business Machines whose1961 and continued on it when the
Authority change proposed in 
nomination for the board wasboard was reconstituted for lay announced previously. The new governance of the University in trustees bring membership on the1967. He resigned as a trustee





Freshinan Year curriculum 
board to 39, seven priests and 32when appointed in 1971 to a three-lay persons.

by Mark Jahne as follows:
organized First 
besides commissioner Ambrose
Staff Reporter 
Semester: 1l Composition and 
were: Wahoske, Arts and Letters; 
,----------------,
Literature or Freshman Seminar; Thomas Wilhelmy, Business A proposed change of authority 2) Mathematics; 3) Natural Administration; Susan Hicks, t ~ I over the Freshman Year of Studies Science or Foreign Language; 4) Engineering; and Mark Seal 
t ,f~~ I
Program is expected to be the Social Science or Elective; 5) Science. ' 
prime issue at the University Elective. 
Academic Council meeting on Second Semester: 1) Freshman Monday. If passed, the Freshman Seminar or Composition and 
: IEDJOtN litOHN iOUK I 
Year of Studies and not the College Literature; 2) Mathematics;; 3) Councils, would be in charge of Natural Science or Foreign 
t •
freshman curriculum. Language; 4) Elctive or Social 
At a meeting of student Science; 5) Elective. With this t trepresentatives to the council held new program, up to three elective last night, Student Commissioner courses may be taken. t t Jim Ambrose noted that, "The big Discussing their own strategy, problem is who has the authority the student representatives agreed t I 
over Freshman Year." If Fresh­not to vote necessarily as a unit man Year assumes control, the unless the issue involved has t I resolution will allow for more signigicant student support or 
variety in choosing freshman disapproval. As Mike Wahoske, courses. Some colleges are ex­Arts and Letter representative, pected to oppose the resolution on said, "We should not adopt any ' t t the grounds that their areas of unit rule." He emphasized the 
study require a full four year need to represent all the student program of studies. body, not just those in the t ' t As the resolution now stands, the majority. 
freshman program would be Other students at the meeting Student Commissioner Jim Ambrose f f 
Democrats dissatisfied t t t t t t unresolved," said Rep. Eli-justice question," said Ed-f f
(continued from page I) 
zabeth Holtzman, D-N.Y., who wards. He· said he felt Ford's f f 
asked the roughest questions of most damaging statement was pardon -or that he might have Ford. She said there wasn't an admission "he deceived the f A tried to mislead the committee. enough time allowed "to satisfy press" by stating his belief in In Concert ' 
But Democrats, some com­public suspicions." Nixon's innocence even after A A plaining about the five-minute "Ford didn't answer the Ford knew of the cover-up. ' r-lton John ' 
question period each member question I asked him about Republicans were generally t 1: f was allowed, were dissatisfied. whether he was willing to turn pleased with Ford's performan-with "The questions are reallv over the tapes" of Nixon ce, and Rep. Wiley Mayne, R-f D j h + D M f 
conversations with Ford while Iowa, said "it seemed to me he t OVey 0 n0LOne, ee U((QY, t he was the House Republi'can explained it very well." He sai·d N 1Ql (I C
0-C burglars leader, she said. he saw no reason to question , ige 000n and 1--<0Y ooper t Holtzman and Reps. Robert Haig. ' d 
W. Kastenmeier, D-Wis., and "I wouldn't expect Haig to f an fapprehended Don Edwards, D-Calif., said contradict him," added Rep. A 0pe.ciol Gue0t 6tor0 f 
they favored calling Haig and David Dennis, R-Ind. ' Two South !3end youths were anybody else involved in the Ranking GOP committee f TW~. klkl D~~ E)~ND t 
pardon. member Henry P. Smith III ofarrested Wednesday while 
allegedly attempting to enter the "I'm not satisfied with his New York said he saw no need f f house of seven Notre Dame '!"(_F_o_rd_'s_l_an_s_w_e_r_t...;,o_th_e_e.;,:,q~ua~l-to_c_o_nt~~~~~~?!~-f N 0 TRE DA M E A CoCo f
o 

students. 
Drunwood Lee Elliot, Jr., age 19, THE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE t Sunday, November 3, 8:00p.m. t of 1037 N. Twyckenham and an unidentified 15 year-old were presents TICKETS GO ON SALE MONDAY OCT. 21 f arrested in the rear of a home at t AT 9:00A.M. 2 LOCATIONS ONLY: 
NEW YORK THEATRE SEMINAR Ill824 South Bend Ave. They were 
' NOTRE DAME A.C.C. TICKET OFFICE ' 
charged with first degree burglary. The 15 year old was Jan. 2 to 10, 1975 t NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION I taken to Parkview Youth Home. 
The two youths were arrested 0:.: t NO EARLY ORDERS! NO MAIL ORDERS! ~~ after neighbors saw them at-oi Cost: Approx. $200.00, plus meals and transportation Limit 12 tickets per person
(Includes show tiakets, tours, seminars, hotel) 
All chair & bleacher seats in front of stage...$7.50
themptJh'ngt.h to benter tthe ph0I?e j For information call Speech and Drama Office-284-4141 
II 

t roug e asemen . o1Ice = i I . All chair & bleacher seats behind the stage.•.$6.50 f
.a.rriv.e.d. ,a.n.d app~.e)'l~pde_d., the, L·;·.,,; :~·,:~'·.''.''i''/'i'':'~'"''·'''·'·, ·,'·'~'
-Yout~ tln 'tbei)renn~es·. .., ·-~ -··-;. "_,_'!..:.:..; ~--·-. ~-~. ~-'\ ~ •.... ~. "· ·-~~::.::.:.....:.~..:. ••••~~~~~.:.· ~ · · ....... ' .• ' ' '1' It,.. > ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' • • ~ MCI\ R:CORDS ' : .. . t
.....•........_......___....; ~...-. ............~~~..-..~~~~~~~~..... 



.... ....
------------------------~--------------------~----­
[ 4 the observer Friday, October 11, 1974 
By Student Affairs, Security
f 
l r 
Rape prevention discussed at St. Mary's 
by Jane Cannon Staff Rt>porter
~ 
"Sometimes it takes the oc­~ currence of something like this attempted rape before the students 
realize that 1t can happen. Most 
girls figure that it won't happen to 
them, so they don't take the Three unidentified men ap­
precautions to prevent it." This proached a St. Mary's student in a 
observation by Stevie Wernig, car in the main parking lot on the 
Assistant to the Vice-President of campus. They asked her the 
Student Affairs, and others similar directions to McCandles Hall, and 
to it came in an aftermath of as she approached them to give the 
opinions by administrative of-directions two of the men forced 
ficials concerning the attempted her into the car 
rape which occurred at St. Mary's -The men dr~ve her through 
last . South Bend and attempted to rape 1 her. According to the girl she ; fought them off and was later freed ' in a parking lot across from the 
Notre Dame library. 
Wernig commented, "Students should know not to approach a strange car. I graduated from St. Mary's six years ago and the campus was safe, so safe that students didn't even lock the doors to their rooms. Now, the crime rate all over South Bend is in­creasing. It's not so much limited to the St. Mary's-Notre Dame community, it is increasing all 
~ over the country." 
"But the two campuses are very open. Security can't do much more than patrol the campus unless they 
Kissing booth featured 
Or. Mary Alice Cannon 



B-P holds Sadie Ha'Wkins dance 
bv: Bob Quakt>nbush · Staff Reporter 
Ever kiss a guy with a mustache? Ever kiss a girl with a mustache? lf not, you will have a chance to do either at tonight's Sadie Hawkins Dance in Stepan Center. Sponsored by Breen­Phillips Hall, the most unusual social event of the season reverses traditional male and females roles­-this time giving the girls the op­portunity to do the asking. 
"We want to prove that the girls' 
TRAVEL RESERVATIONS TICKETING 

GRUENINGER TRAVEL' 291-4810 Mon-Fri 10 -9 Sat. 10·6 Sun. 12 -5:30 
UPPER LEVEL 
SCOTTSDALE MALL 


RUSTY RHODES 
AGAIN 
.TONIGHT 
7:00P.M WASHINGTON HALL THIS IS IT! Anyone who Missed Tuesdays Lecture should attend Because This Is Your Last Chance. 
dorms can be more active in Notre Dame social life," says Kathy Grace, one of B-P's social com­missioners, "and if our Sadie Hawkins dance goes well, we'll have done so." 
"One thing I'd like to emphasize is that this event is open to the entire campus. All Notre Dame and St. Mary's students are welcome. In fact, in honor of Parents Weekend, we're even granting parents free admission," reports Grace. 
The feature affection or rather attraction of the dance is the kissing booth. One booth will be manned by !SBP Pat McLaughlin, Ombudsman Bill McLean and the Observer's Tom Drape) Notre Dame men, and the other will be "womanned" by ladies from Notre Dame and St. Mary's. A slight fee will be charged for their services. 
Another feature is the Hitchin' Post. Reverend Lee Galsex will perform the ceremonies and 
professional 'witnesses" Matt Rimony and Honey Moon will be available. "Marriage licenses" will be awarded free of charge. 
Entertainment will be provided by WIND, and cider and donuts will be available to add to the enjoyment of the festivities. 
But above all, the mo.st unique characteristic of the dance is the shift in responsibility from t)te men to the women to "lake the initiative." At this dance, the girls are authorized to ask men to dance, and the guys, for once, possess that all important power to either accept or reject. 
"We hope we can guarantee that everyone will have a good time, but I know I can promise it'll be an interesting experience for all those who attend," commented one worker. 
The dance begins at nine and continues till one. The posters around campus lay down the basic ground rules. "You can't bring a date and you can't leave without one!" How this will be enforced is as vet undetermined. 
The women in Breen-Phillips ha­ve spent a great deal of time and energy planning and promoting the dance and their reward will be student support and long lines at the kissing booths. 
So, they're telling everyone, "Come one, come all, but come alone." If you'd druther have a good time tonight, don't miss the Sadie Hawkins Dance. Admission is only one dollar. 
fenced in the entire area. In that respect Notre Dame isn't quite as accessable because it's hard to drive onto the campus," she added. 
Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, Vice­President of Student Affairs, agrees that the crime rate is in­creasing on a nationwide basis. She stated, "I don't think it's rising appreciably here. There have been reports of rape attempts and molestings and a lot comes from girls hitch-hiking." 
The fact remains, however, that the safety of the students is in danger, especially when walking on campus at night. What can be done about it? 
Wernig stated, "Security does the best job it can by patrolling. They do confront people who look out of place, but they can't do everything." 
The primary concern of Dr. Cannon is "that students only hear about these things. The ones that really learn are the ones ,that have had something happen to them." 

SMC Security Director Anthony 
Kovatch has announced that ad­
ditionallighting will be installed on 
campus, "as soon as the lights 
arrive." Lights will be placed on 
both sides of the library, aroung 
Lake Marion, on the walks bet­
ween Regina and LeMans, and on 
the walks between LeMans and 
Holy Cross, Regina and Madeleva. 
Wernig reported that "after 
break there will be students 
stationed at the east door of 
LeMans to let people walk through. 
It won't be much help to McCandless residents, but it will make things safer for LeMans, Holy Cross, Regina and Agusta residents." 
Kovatch suggests that students use the tunnels, especially wh~ there is a lot of traffic on campus, when the weather is bad, and when the night is exceptionally dark. 
Encouraging the use of the tunnels, Kovatch stated, "This campus is so vulnerable you can get on to it from the toll road, from ·lJS 31, from the river--all sides are ~en and people know it. So when there's a lot of people on campus, like when there is something going on at O'Laughlin, it's better to use the tunnels." 
"Unless a person knows the tunnels very well, they will have trouble finding eheir way around. A guy who comes on campus wants to get a girl or gets what he wants, then leaves as quickly as possible. In the tunnel he won't have that quick escape hatch that he needs," Kovatch noted. 
On the security of the tunnel Kovatch commented, "We do patrol the tunnels. We check them out about five times a night. 
*I TRIPLE E PRESENTS* 
TI-REE IN THE ATTIC 
ENGINEERING  SATURDAY  
AUD  7-9-ll  
$1.00  
R•.,.s  R  
SURVIVAL  
OF,.HE  
ERCES,..  
AND,.HE  
FUNNIES.,.  
Featured in September 30th  
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED  
Cast including N.F.L.GREATS:  
Joe Kapp-Sonny Sixkiller - 
Ray Nitschkll -Ernie Wheelright - 
Ray Ogden -Pervis Atkins  
From the producer of  
"The Godfather": AI Ruddy  
BURT REYNOLDS  
'~THE LONGEST YARD''  
EDDIE ALBERT  
CO-~IARRINC.  
ED LAUTER MIKE CONRAD  
PRODucED"' ALBERTS. RUDDY  
. ·. D•_RECT<DB• ROBERT ALDRICH  

Miami & Ireland Roads South Bend 
Air-Conditioned Comfort 
FREE PARKING 

NON SHOVVING 
at 2:00 -4:30 
7:00-9:30 
There's usually not much traffic in there. We try to encourage the girls to use the tunnels more because they are more safe than above ground." 
Warnings have been posted in all of the residence halls from the office of Student Affairs. Students are cautioned against walking around the campus after dark alone. While the expression "there is safety in numbers" is a cliche, it is, none the less, true, and a point that the administration is urging students to keep in mind. Students are also reminded of the dangers of hitch-hiking and walking or riding bikes on the main road into campus. 
Gail Ritchie, Assistant to the Director of Counseling, suggests that students attend seminars being conducted by the Sex Offense Staff. 
The Student Affairs office is currently sponsorin~ the SOS, a group of people from South Bend who conduct awareness seminars and man a "rape hot line." The seminars, accordcing to Ritchie, "tell wha: to do if you are raped. They help you out of a very frighte 1ing and lonely ex­perience." 
The resident advisors in every dorm went through an SOS training session during their workshop before the semester began. The SOS will present seminars in Holy Cross on October 24 and in Regina on November 4. 
Ritchie encourages all SMC women to come and hear the SOS speakers because she feels "the seminars will hopefully give the women some direction if she's in a circumstance where she has been raped." 



In ~ar Hall r========================================================================================;::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::=====================~=--==~==-x=======, 
j N.D. CHEERLEADERS ;llli
Psych dept. sponsors open house~lll Jl~ 
Friday, October 18, 1974 the observer 
by Mary Reher Starr Reporter 

Psychology students and faculty will sponsor an open house in the newly remodeled Haggar Hall Thurday, October 24 from 2 to 4 
p.m. Tours and refreshments> will be offered to all interested students and faculty. 
Following the open house at 4:15 
p.m. guest speaker Professor Birren of the University of Southern California will deliver a speech on "Psychology: An Op­tomistic Future?" in the HaggarAuditorium. 
The open house will allow students and faculty to view the building renovation begun last February. 
"Although the superficial 
renovation is finished, there is till 
some electrical work to be done. It 
isestimatP.dthat the project will be 
completed in early December," 
stated Dr. John Borkowski, 
chairman of the Psychology
Department. 
The remodeling was financed by a donation of $750,000 in 1972 by the Haggar Foundation of Dallas. 
.Texas, in honor of J. M. Haggar, Sr., founder and honorary chairman. of the board of the 
•

A's w1n. take world series· 
OAKLAND UPI-The Oakland A's In all, four of the five World outfielders, Bill Buckner and Jim defeated the Los Angeles Dodgers Series games ended in the score 3-Wynn, walked to thP mfield to seek 3-2 Thursday night to win their 2. . refuge from the falling litter, and 
third straight World Series title, The winning homer came after a Marshall and Manager Walt Alston four games to one. six-minute delay caused when fans joined them in a conference with Joe Rudi hit a lead off home run threw litter from the outfield seats the umpires.
off Dodgers pitcher Mike 
onto the field. After Rudi's ball Then play resumed. Marshall in the seventh inning, cleared the left field fence, another The Oakland JJitchers, in order, 
knocking the ball deep into the 
shower of debris rained frCim some were Vida Blue, John "Blue Moon" stands beyond left field and in the sellout crowd of 49,347. Odom and Rollie Fingers. Odom breaking a 2-2 tie. At one point two of the Dodgers was the winner and Fingers was 
credited with a save -his sixth in
• dthree World Series, a record. He
Student report lSSUe 
(continued from page l) 
The student report on the state of student life at Notre Dame covers such topics of C( ncern as the University positions on sexuality, alcohol rulings, social hfe limitations, off-campus robberies, food cc-ops, rising tuitiou, LaFortune renovativa, ticket price increase~, academic code changes and the ncademic calendar. 
Reactions to student report 
Carney gave his reactions to 
different areas of student life discussed at yesterday's meeting. "The problems caused by the laws 
of South Bend 52980 U-.5.31 North 272-5220, presents 
Wng~t aroa. overland Rage co. 
everything from down-home b l·u e g r a s s to c on f e m p o r a r y rock BEG INNING 0 CT 0 BE R.81 -3 SHOWS N lG H T L Y F R 0 M 9 :0 0-2:0 0 . SUNDAY FROM 8:30·12:00 
Haggar Company. 
This Saturday, October 19 a private dedication ceremony will be held in Hagger Hall for the Haggar's, their guests, the trustees, and their wives, and the Psychology Departent. 
"Although I would like to, I cannot extend an open invitation to this event because we expect a full house," noted Borkowski. 
Reverand Theodore M. Hesburgh, University President, will celebrate Mass in honor of the dedication Also, the Notre Dame Chapel, directed by Dr. David Isele and Ms. Sue Seid, will sing. At 10:00 a.m. Hesburgh will bless the hall. Tours of the building will be given from 10:15 to 11:30, followed by a private President's luncheon in the Center for Con­

prohibiting alcohol on campus stood out in importance at the meeting," he noted. "Its effect on fhe social life on campus seems to have been very great." 
Carney noted a connection between the alcohol prohibition on campus and problems with coeducation. 
Carney reported that for the third consecutive year the LaFortune renovation plans were discussed by the committee. "Apparently there are still decisions to be made b:y the ar­chitects," he stated. "The ap­
propriations are still there but no 
(continued on page 12) 

Newly-renovated Haggar Hall will be the scene of an Open House next Thursday from 2 to 4 p.m. 


~~ye~l.so named Most Valuable 
By winning the Series for the third year in a row, Oakland joined the New York Yankees-who won five between 1949 and 1953 and four from 1936 to 1939-as the only teams in history to win three or more titles in succession. 
"That's pretty good company," said Oakland's Reggie Jackson. "I said right along, we're a lot better team than we have been given credit for. Maybe, now people will take notice of us." 
FRAN SAYS LESSON IS: FOX ... TROT AT NOTRE DAME LAFORTUNE BALLROOM ON MON. EVE OCT. 21 7 P.M. SHARP 
A LESSON EVERY MONDAY $2 EACH LESSON 
ALWAYS A BEGINNER LESSON OVER 100 NOW IN CLASS 
COME ALONE, GROUP, DATE 
WATCH FOR US SOON ON WNDU-TV STUDENT PARTICIPATION SHOW 



THE OBSERVER 
Serving the NCrtU OA~ ST. MARY'S COMMUNITY Total Circulation J J ,OOC Regular 

DISPLAY ADVERTISING and PUBLICATION NOW AVAILABLE CALL 283-7471 or WRITE BOX Q 

"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
=*======~============:================================!!==========:===================x=:::w 
;:;: 35 Varieties of Pancakes ::::: 
::::chicken -Steak -Sandwiches ::::: 
JII~ Friday Nites: Perch Dinners jll 
:~:::;:::::::;:;:;:;::::::::::::i:::i:i:i::::::::!::::::::;:::::::::::::::::;:;:::::;:;:::;::# 


Friday, October 18, 1974
the observer 

First Oktoberfest social success 
b~· Mary£ran Hayes Staff Heporter 

St. Mary's Oktoberfest was a welcomt>d surprise to the "Social Syndrome" on the Notre Dame and St. MarY.'s campuses. The Oktoherfest activities began W<>dncsday at 4:30 with a German dinner and ended Thursday ('Vl'ning with the John Sebastian Concert. Other Oktoberfest ac­t ivitil's 1 angl:'d from a dance to a 'ndrlint-1, contest. 
SA(;;\ food sl:'n-ice and thE' third lloor of :\1("( 'and less Hall spon­sort>d tlw OklotwrfPst dinner which included ,;a Uf'rkra ut. sa uer­hraut<>n, pork ehop~. baked apples and stn1dd. Tlw dinnf'r was such a succf'c:.-. that thC'rt· wa:; a hal~·hour \\:.it. <'hif'k~>n h::J to he sup­pknwnll''! lor ilt(' original entries and tht~ dinrwr ~"''"a half hour over IimP Tlw rlintlt'•· wa" opened to all with ;1 slight chargt:> for persons other than faculty, administrators, :-.1\IC students, and ND students with eo-<>x tickets. 
A three hour bonfire behind 1\leCand\ess' tennis courts followed the dinner. At 8:30 the (;l'rman dining hall was converted into a dance hall with a "Beer Garden" in the basement. 
"We had no problem with the beer," commented Margie Fuchs, SMC Social Commissioner, "The lines were a little slow, however, because we only had two taps." 
Admission to the "Beer Garden" was $1.50 and students were car~ed at the entrance. Patrons of the ' Beer Garden" were exempted 
I 
,. .... lfll 
•... 

-
Hay therr, ... and everywhere, as the Oktoberfest Hayride gets under wa''· (Photo by Paul Joyce) 
from the 25 <'t>nl entrance fee for · tlw dance, featuring Talisman. 
An Arts and Crafts Show began Thursdav's events at 9 a.m. The show. hi.•ld in LeMans, featured items from Jennifer's downtown store. sand eandles and some leather goods designed by local artist Roy Phillips. 
The field outside of St. Mary's dining hall was the scene of Thursday's main activities. 
"A water balloon toss replaced the scheduled egg toss," explained Sue Rauen, director of Thursday's events, "since Campus Ministry is sponsoring the Hunger Drive, we felt that an egg toss would be a waste of food." However, the corn­on-the-eob eating contest did take place, resulting with Trish Quan as the winner. Rauen expressed a problem in obtaining the corn. ''We had to get the corn from the frozen food section because corn is out of season. I think the students en­joyed it better. though!" · 
Other contests involved apple dunking with Steve Pettit as its victor. "Long intricate minutes were involved in the Pumpkin carving contest," observed Fuchs. Colleen Ruthfuss and Patty Nemestil carved the prize winning 

orJumpkin, with an Oktoberfest smile. Rauen felt that the funniest event was the "Cupcake Walk." People walked around in a circle singing "Do-Re-Mi" and "Edelweiss"; after the completion of a circle, cupcakes were awar­ded. 
"There was a larger crowd today than I had expected, since everyone was tired from yester­day's activities;'' stated Rauen. "I can't wait to see it happen again. Everyone was so busy, yet they took time out to participate." 
The SMC Oktoberfest was born last spring in the halls of McCandless. The SMC social commissioner and her roommate Pat O'Loughlin, had just returned from An Tostal and wondered why St. Mary's couldn't have a similar event. They decided on an Oktoberfest. 
"I got the idea organized in my mind last spring and this summer and I presented it to my com­missioners; they approved and we started planning in September," explained Fuchs. Fuchs continued 1\llflrgie Fuchs credits bv stating that it is only the Social Oktoberfest's success to Stevie 

Commission'ssecondyearandifth-Wernig and her social com­zy didn't geL a firm hold this year, missioners: Mary Ellen Vonesh, they never would. associate-eommissioner; Diane 
Stevie Wernig, SMC vice-John, movie coordinator; Megan president of Student Affairs, felt Lee, Teery Schneider and Mary that there was a good crowd and Connelly. special events coor­that a "lot of guys were present. dinators; Pat O'Loughlin, off­Everything went over so well that campus coordinator; Jenny Lee, Oktoberfest should be continued." publicity; Ginny Gibbs, Sec.-
Wernig hopes to see more Tres.; Sue Rauen, McCandless activities at SMC. She said, "We representative; .Julie Gillis and have the facilities over here to do Rene Krahling, LeMans other events. We -can't compete representatives; Molly McKenna with the concerts ·at ND but with and Elaine Bareis, Holy Cross the two campuses acting together representatives; J<me Bollinski, we could get things going." Augusta rPpresentative: and 
SMC l'~reshman .. SuP Fahren-Denise :iaffc:ty, Regina bach wishes to see the event represe111·, ·: ··~· continued. ''I would like to see it on :-;;;;;;;;;;;;;-.;,;;,..;;,.;;.;;.;;;;;;;;;::;_::;;".::-::..-=-::;-;:-..-­'' weekend and !think it should be I ~AN IT HELP :;Sif · , ~~ publicized earlier so we have time i\ln , .-, ;.:,-j4~-. l, \ fo prepare lor the events.·· · · .. , ,!ii... 
"'I had a fantastic time!" ex-Rti,:__ :'1 ~:. -~ claimed Junior Mark Holland, "I'd like to see it again. but why wait for Oktoberfest or An Tostal? I think each campus should develope a theme once or twice a semester and schedule events around these themes." 

I.~' . 
:';: 

These two girls enjoy bobbing for apples which was just one of the activities at Oktoberfest. (Photo by Paul Joyce) 
IN CONCERT 


MAC DAVIS 
Also Appearing: Nay Travers 
SAT. OCT. 19th 8:30 P.M. 
NOTRE DAME 
ATHLETIC AND
Ticket Prices CONVOCATION CENTER
Bleachers _______ $4.00 Lower Arena _____ $5.50 · 
Tickets on sale: NOTRE DAME, A.C.C Mon. ·Sat 9 lo 5 
Robertson's Soulh Bend &Comord Mall St. Joseph Bank 
and bran<hes First Bank 

Wear them to a mountain or a pizza. 
In the rain, snow or mor­ning. Rough. Tough. Thick, stick leather with squishy ankle wrap. ln. credible. In maple. 
$30 $ 3o
size 13--32 
From 

... 0 N THE CAM PUS NOTRE DAME 

-~ -~------~-­
FT"iday, Oc.1ober 18, 1974 
the observer 

how the devil do i know? 

Sergei's aunt, in a voice as full of phoney Russian accents as a Danny Kaye reading.of the ·Cherry Orchard begged me by telephone to visit her nephew living in an apartment of the West Village. Bellevue wouldn't touch him, she said, not even as an out-patient, though it was obvious to all the world that Sergei was drinking himself to death. 
When, in the afternoon heat of July 4th this summer, I finally stood in the one-room walkup where the imperilled nephew lived, I was afraid that other contaminants might prove lethal more quickly than the vodka Sergei was living on. For three weeks, he had been sharing the room with a cat. Apparently Sergei left the place oc­casionally, at least to buy liquor; but there was no evidence that the animal had ever been outside; its odor was like that of sawdust stale with urine. It was one of those places where you have to learn to breathe without inhaling; otherwise, your stomach would be sick all over a floor on which vomit could only have been an improvement. (I'm sorry for the clinical details, but somehow, I thought you'd want to know; there are threats other than the black magic of witch doctors in the life of the Christian missionary.) 
Sergei was not especially happy to see me; on the other hand, he seemed to sen­se that the person wearing the clerical collar was someone he could talk to without compromising his attachment to alcohol. "Come in," he said grudgingly. There was not much furniture in the room except for some low tables and floor cushions. I used one of the tables as a bench; it was as close to the rug as I was willing to come. That was where I sat, on that improvised bench without back, as we spent the next three hours talking. 
Sergei had been, he said, one of the flower 
children, He was now twenty-six; but in the 
great days of the Republic, when its youth 
were politically active in the Peace 
Movement, he had dropped out of Columbia, 
lived in Haight-Ashbury, smoked pot, 
shouted slogans, attended demonstrations, 
smoked pot some more, and had his head 
broken in by the fascists pigs of Mayor 
Daley's Chicago. He had really suffered for 
peace, Sergei said, and now he had come to 
this. He waved a hand in ambiguous 
directions and sighed deeply, like a duchess 
down on her luck. 
He owed three hundred dollars in back 
clytemestra van der var:~etweid._ 
An Open Letter to the Notre Dame Com­munity. 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
In regards to Miss Gumms' letter which appeared in the column of the Royal Geophysical Society I must protest her high­handed and insulting manipulation of the facts. It is obvious that she seeks only to confuse the public and damage my own credibility. She has no interest either in the truth or in any scientific approximation thereof--no, none at all. I have stood all my adult life upon the Quakenborle hypothesis and supporting data and shall continue to stnd on it as the only reliable method of dating the aggragte effect of Ethiopian percipitation upon the climatico-geological conditions of Northern Indiana. Fur­thermore, accepting Miss Gumms' theory how are we to account for the internal evidence available from the Indian folktale collected by Father Clodivicus Handel in his monumental Indian Poetry of the Indiana Border? 
How long does Miss Gumms intend to perpetrate her pseudo-intellectual inanities upon this campus? And how longdoes the rent, he said. He didn't dale to leave his apartment for more than a few minutes at a time; otherwise, the landlord might come in and rip off his stereo. He might also throw. Sergei to hell out of the place, as a complaint against its disorder. 
How had he lived, I asked him, after his flower-childing had gone to seed? Who supported him? Where did his money come from? Had he ever worked? This was what his crisis was all about, he answered. His woman had left him. They had lived together for three years. She had worked for a while as a topless dancer, making good money. He had taken care of the apart­ment, and painted pictures. Three weeks ago, she had left him. She had gone back to her parents because she needed an operation. She didn't feel she could depend on him to take care of her while she was sick. 
"Itwas just a bitchy little minor operation on her organs;'' he said. "She didn't have to leave." 
But she had left, and every day since, he 
had knocked off a quart of vodka. I won­
dered if he really knew how much he had 
been drinking; with so much liquor, it could 
be hard to tell. "Was there drug use also?" 
I asked. Sergei's family thought he might 
be on drugs; his aunt wanted me to find out 
for sure. There were no drugs, he said; 
there hadn't been af!y drugs for a while, 
except maybe for a lttle pot now and then. 
Pot was good, he thought. "They should 
legalize that stuff," he said. I thought he 
was going to add: "It's the best friend the 
working man ever had," but he didn't. 
He showed me a letter from his departed 
roommate who had danced toplessly. It was a fervent little homily, touching and desperate, urging him to seek help for his drinking problem. She sounded as though she really cared about him, I thought. She promised him that after the gynecologist cured her, she would come back, if he would stop destorying himself. At the end, she said she would always love him. She really sounded like a girl capable of an enduring 
love. 
Had he sought therapy, I asked? 
Yesterday, he had gone to Bellevue with his 
mother, he said. The doctor--or the guy who 
had posed as a doctor; Sergei thought he 
was a fake--had said his family should find 
him help, instead of just trying to get rid of 
him. There was not possibly enough 
hospital rooms for all the City's alcoholics, 
ta the r:~eaphyaical saciety 
an open letter to notre dame 
Royal Geophysical Society intend to abet her? I can readily understand Professorin von der Vegelweide's hostility to me--l refer again to the Berkley snipe hunt--neither do I blame her for it, however truth should not be subject to the vagaries of human feelings. I appeal to her therefore in the name of scholarship, fairplay and Notre Dame. I do not intend to let nine years of work and.2,674 index cards be in vain. This university can neither ignore nor suppress an ar­cheological discovery of this importance. I appeal to all learned men and women on this campus. I appeal to the student body. I appeal to Coach Parseghian and the Notre Dame football team. My excavations are fragmentary due to the confining nature of the sub-basement. Only let me sink a trial trench across the forty yard line of the stadium and I shall be able to prove my assertions beyond a shadow of a doubt. 
Professorin von der Vogelweide, you should be my first ally in this endeavor­instead you block me at every turn siphoning off potential field workers to that, ... that boat house. I can write no more. I am overcome with rage, ill treatment and 
the ward-flunkey had said. Anyway, Sergei 
didn't want to go to a hospital. He had been 
to a hospital once: the guy next to him, 
dying with cancer, had hollered all night 
from the pain. When Sergei, trying to sleep, 
had complained about the hollering, the 
attendants came and beat him, he said. 
Sergei said that he needed niore than 
anything was a chick-someone to love him, 
and they could take care of each other. 
There had always been women, he said; 
with three of them, he had had major love 
affairs. Now, he said, what he needed to do 
was to get himself cleaned up, and go out 
and find himself another chick. 
I asked him, as a reflex action of the trade 
I'm in, if he were religious. He said he used 
to be Catholic, but he didn't bother with 
religion anymore. I asked him what he 
thought of Christ. 

He looked at me for a moment with a question in his eyes. "Jesus Christ?" he asked, with an inflection on the Jesus as though it were possible I was speaking of another Christ named Herman or Benjy. I answered that the only Christ I knew was 
Jesus. 

· He figured Jesus was kind of a flower 
child of his times. "Jesus had his women, 
too," he said, as though he figured that the 
Magdalene might have been a belly dancer 
earning groceries for the Lord. He added: 
"I don't believe any of that stuff about His 
rising from the dead." 
After that, I talked to Sergei for along 
time about himself, his drinking, .his 
women, his future, his relationship to God. 
Every now and then, he would pour himself 
another drink : of vodka and orange juice; 
but he did not seem drunk. His mind ap­
peared to be more orderly, his speech more 
coherent as the afternoon wore on. Several 
times he told me that I seemed to know 
exactly what he was thinking; it was un­
canny, he said, the powers I had to read his 
mind. I really thought I had Sergei taking 
the firsts step toward rehabilitation, idiot 
1
th~Iam. 

Toward the end of the afternoon, Sergei had another visitor: one of those village gurus whose title is doctor of souls, whose pretensions are transcendent, and whose shaving lotion Ot occurred to me to think later) could have been perfumed with fire and brimstone At first, I thought I had an ally in my efforts at reforming a life. But after a few minutes, I felt there was a mischief at work in the room, an air of 
grief. And my baked beans have burned again. I beg to remain very truly yours, Wilbuhrforce Buhndoggle 
In regards to Professor Buhndoggel's ac­cusations we shall pass over in silence both his misinformed appraisals of our feelings concerning the Berkeley Dark Ages Snipe Hunt and his part therein--after toasting 47 professors and 18 learned societies a man may well be expected to behave in a slightly giddy fashion--particularly if he can't hold his fruit punch. As for his appeal to the football team for permission to sink a 1trial trench across the forty yard line-1 do not believe the redoubtable St. Helen resorted to such drastic measures searching for the Holy Cross. I think it would suffice if the Athletic department allowed him to tunnel under it in the name of historical in­vestigation. As for the rest of 'Buhndoggle ''s diatribes we must point out that while Miss Gumms' has from the first sought public support and published her findings. Professor iBuhndoggle on the other hand has remained sequestered in the sub-basement with his index cards and as 
disorder beyond !anything represented by cat crap or undisciplined drinking. The man's conversation was friendly, his manners urbane; yet he seemed in charge of all the unpleasantness, moral and physical, in that apartment, as though jn some way he were going to profit from it. It was crazy, yet I had a sense of living through a scene in a Poe story, where the protagonist is presented with an incarnate horror. Yet. there was not so mucha'senseof evil, as the suggestion of evil; and its vibrations were too faint for an exorcist to have dealt with. An active imagination might describe it as seeming like a classic scene of spiritual warfare, where an agent of light battles with an agent of darkness for posession of a young !man's soul, except really there was no battle but the one I was fantasizing in my mind. 
It became plain to me that my usefulness to Sergei had ended for the afternoon, for from the time the visitor entered, he seemed to have lost all interest in anything we had said. When I said goodbye, I think he had forgotten I was still in the room. 
"I said: May I come back to see you?" 
"Oh, Christ, no," said Sergei. 'The last person I need to have bothering me is a Catholic priest." The ambiguous doctor gave me a smile that was full of amusement, and also it seemed to me, of mockery and triumph. 
"It's an ungracious reply, Sergei," I said. 
"Someone better bother you, because you're not helping yourself with that glass in your hand." I wish to hell it could have been a stronger exit speech, but my words would have been ineffective no matter what I had said. I don't think he even heard me. 
This has been the story of what has been happening to at least one of the flower children. What else it could be a story of, I am not sure. Perhaps the evil I sensed in that village guru was the projection of an inner sense of unworthiness within myself onto an innocent healer; by that sense, I felt incapable of helping Sergei bring his life into subjection to grace and wisdom. I might have been content with this theory because as a believer in demons, I tend to be · agnostic. But later on, I wondered when I afterwards read in the paper that my village guru and practitioner of souls had been arrested for descecrating an altar in a Catholic church of lower Manhattan. 
our readers will recall he was rapidly assuming the stature of a legend when we mentioned his works in this column. I urge any interested student _to offer their assistance to Professor Buhndoggle: and I am deeply greived that his baked beans burned, however, truth compels us to assert again that Miss Gumms' finds are definitely Viking and that Buhndoggel's geology is faulted. 
contest 

The Royal Geophysical Society announces the opening of competition for its annual Rootabega . Recipe Contest. All entries must be original and unpublished, typed or neatly illuminated and postmarked no later 
than November 15, 1974. All entries will become the property of the , Observer and the decision of the judges will be final. All entries should be addressed to Clytemnestra vonlder Vogelweide in care of The Observer. First prize will be a piece of chalk reputedly used by Theodore Momm­son. Second prize will be a recording of the Cincinnati Dancing Pig. 

wx 

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
• THE OBSERVER The Vice Meets Ed Sullivan 
AN INOEPENOEN'r STUOFNT NE'WSP"APER 
£DITORIALS: 213-1661 NEWS: 213-1715 BUSINESS: 2U-747l Tbnt Drape 
EciHor-ln-Cidef Freel" Graver Editorial Editor 
.Qob Zogas 
8eltMcMaRUS 
Busine~$;Man~ger 

Friday, October 18, 19741 
----------------~------~~~ ~~~------------~------~ 
Better Security Needed 
For the past few years, reports and rumors of molestings and sexual at­tacks of St. Mary's students have circulated through the campus with increasing frequency. Two years ago, a St. Mary's student was raped on campus. More recently, a girl was abducted from the campus parking lot and sexual advances were made towards her. In addition, an uniden­tified exhibitionist has been frequenting both the ND and SMC campuses this semester. 
The time has come to cry "enough!" and to begin to take positive, preventive steps against such in­cidents. This week, the SMC Student Affairs Office issued a memorandum to the hall staffs, warning girls against walking alone on campus at night, and urging them to use the tunnels whenever possible. 
Both these measures, however, seem unrealistic. First, students often study in classroom buildings and must return to their rooms by themselves. Second, traveling through the tunnels poses as much if not more, of a threat to a girl than walking outside. The five nightly patrols are far too infrequent to regulate use of the tunnels. 
The new lighting system along the walks, scheduled to be installed over October break, will not provide much protection, as several frequently -used paths with a considerable amount of foliage will remain unlit. Moreover, several incidents have already oc­curred during broad daylight. 
Perhaps what is more frightening than the increased incidence of assaults, is the attitude taken by St. 
Mary's security. When questioned earlier this week regarding his office's attempts to locate and apprehend the exhibitionist, Security Director An­thony Kovatch replied, "It's a matter of being at the right place at the right time." However, campus security cannot be left up to chance or haphazard coincidence. It involves becoming concerned, making a con­certed effort, and taking definite steps to make the campus safer for the students. 
What Student Affairs and Security both appear to be perpetuating through their "solutions," is an atmosphere of fear and anxiety among the students, and for all practical purposes, an admission of their inability to handle the situation. These measures, rather than preventing such incidents, could ultimately give a free reign to anyone who happens to stroll on campus, the students, for whom the campus exists, retreat to their dorms after dark. 
A system of regulating who enters the campus must be established. A guard station could be set up at the entrance of St. Mary's to screen in­coming cars. In addition, foot patrols could be instituted to cover the many parts of the campus not accessible to security cars. These measures are presently in use at Notre Dame and have proven to be rather successful. 
Positive, preventive measures on the part of Student Affairs and Security must be combined with responsible student initiative to confront this growing problem realistically. 
Mary Janca 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
the observer 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Night Editor -Bill Brink Ass't Night Editor -Val Zurblls, Mary Janca Layout -Bob Brink, Katie Kerwin, Rich Nugent, Karen Hoare, Martha Fanning Copy Readers Bob Quakenbush, Ken Bradford Day Editors -Ken Girouard, Val Zurblis Editorials -Ken Girouard Features -J.R. Baker, Nor­man Bower Sports -Greg Corgan, Bib Kissel Typists-Janet Carney, Artist Peeler, Barb Haug, Tom Modglin, Michelle, Rick Huber Compugraphic Operator -Bob Steinmetz Picture Screener -Albert D'Antonio Night Controller -Dave Rust Ad Layout -Bob Tracy Special Guest Star -Dan Sanchez Resident Zombie -T. Drape Usual drop in -the Peruvian Whale Welcome Peggy W.l Delighted Don Juan -P.J. 
IIIIIUIIIIIUIIIIHIIUUIIUIIIHUUIIIIIIIIIIIUII 


llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllftllllllllllll fred q rav e r 
Last year. after being "raised to the purple," as the medievalists would ha~·e it, and given the job of Contributing Editor, many pec>pie asked me: "What does a Contributing Editor do?" 
I could not answer that question. When I said "contribute," <which is about as far as my understanding of the task went), people would pass me off as being fresh and insolent, brash and irresponsible, or any other according duo of words. So I kept my mouth shut. 
Can anyone with a "title" ever properly justify their actual job with the euphemism connected to it? What does the title "President of the United States" actually have to do with what Gerry Ford is carrying on about in the White House? 
Someday, when you're feeling a bit spunky, walk up to your favorite administrator or high executive type and ask him what exactly he does. "Pardon me, Father," you may ask, "but what exactly are the duties of a 'Provost'?" Don't be surprised when the definition begins to drift vastly away from the actual chore at hand. 
Back to the original subject-the desire for a title with a little moredescriptionto it; I needed a job with a bit more "definition of purpose." So I took on the task of "Observer Spiritual Advisor." As such, I hoped to be able to comfort the troubled souls working on the paper, perhaps ease over some of the in-house squabbles we have, and, in general, dictate total moral and immoral policy for the land. 
In this capacity, I modeled myself after some of the great moral leaders of our time: Timothy Leary, Wolfman Jack, Bugs Bunny, Eddie Haskell <a strong early influence), and the kid-Guru Maharaj Ji! 
I had an open door policy at first, requesting that those seeking spiritual guidance approach me face-to-face. This didn't work because every time I tried to look philosophic, spiritual and paternal, the "advisee" would crack up. It seemed that another means of shepherding for my spiritual flock would be necessary. 
I began to accept letters. And what letters they have been .... --One letter described to me the entire cosmic awakening of a young man · --Another told of the adventures of an unknown "cigarette" pusher on campus 
--A third told the tragic tale of a woman who insisted on calling directory assistance for numbersshecould have easily found in the telephone book. 
Pretty dull, right? I changed my title to Vice Editor. The letters got better. The first letter was about a young boy who had spent his last nine 
years <he is thirteen) on the road with his family's traveling gerbil circus. He was in charge of keeping the gerbils m a depraved state of hunger and anxiety so that they would be more prone to training. 
The gerbils became famous, and were scheduled to appear on the Ed Sullivan show (God bless his soull. Months before the ap­pearance, the young boy began a dastardly plan that will forever enlist him in the journals of cads and bounders. He began to deprive them of all sexual activity. The gerbils got pretty frisky at times, but he kept on with his plan. He was a man driven by ''vision.'' 
He was obsessed with the idea of offending all of America. And he almost did. If he wouldn't have told his secret to a waitress at Lindy's, over a slice of their delectable cheesecake .... 
But he let it slip, and she went and told Ed that when the gerbils were released on television they would force millions of parents in America to do a little quick thinking, "on account of those kids are gonna wanna know, you know." 
But that isn't what I planned on writing about today. I came to tell you about somethpng which has come to my attention via a letter to the Vice Editor, that will, if left unchecked, cause misery and pain to students all over this campus. 

The little man pictured here is but one of an army of little men who are finding their way onto the scalps of millions of students. They descend from the shower heads, equipped with these giant snippers, and head straight for the hair roots. (This picture courtesy of the Galvin Life Science Center.) 
Anyway, the only way to rid your scalp of these little Oscars is to talk them out. Really. 
Go to your mirror, pull all of your hair back, and address them (in a firm but friendly tone). Tell them that, although you are honored to be visited upon by such unique and magical little people, you wish to remain with all of your locks intact, at least until natural baldness "rears its ugly head." 
The letter I received told me that these men are quite congenial and understanding, and will pack up and leave upon request. They are rather helpless, and don't wish to cause a scene. 
Letters to the Vice Editor-Spiritual Advisor are welcomed, read, laughed at and generally prone to the general derision of all who see them. Send them to: 
Vice 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, Ind. 
I'll try to keep a straight face when I read them. 




---------~--------.--~.---,-,,l-11~1,,-,,~;;-",-,,~u,-,1·-,,"~­
. . "'~-· ,, 1 u~•"1"~ i!t\1UUUIIIIJI~t-11 t
.••,,.u ;
~ !;liJIUUH~·' I. _J ••

autriderIIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHII-111111111111111 
Goodbye, f\Jelson Rockefeller 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll· taa r ry wiIIs 
Nelson Rockefeller cannot remind us often enough, or with enough sanctimon~, that his fa~ily's m~ney. has ~on~ into m~ny philanthropic proJects. There 1s an historical JUStice to this-­charities covering up everything elso the Rockefeller money does, just as in John D. Senior's day. 
Now we know about one project in which Rockefeller money w.as used--$60,000 of it--in a way that reflected no honor on any one m­volved. The project was small-time stuff; but when y~m have a ~Jut of millions anyway, a measly $60,000 can be thrown mto margmal operations. 
The money was paid out for the writing, printing, and distribution of a hatchet job on Nelson Rockefeller's opponent for gov.ernor of New York. Victor Lasky, who threw the book together m a few weeks is an old Noxon hanger~n and right-wing hack writer-he was al~o on the CREEP payroll while still posing as an independent journalist. It is typical of this whole operation that he only got $10,000 of the $60,000. 
The Rockefeller money came from Nelson's brother, Laurence, but the deal was set up by John Wells, who was running much of Nelson's campaign. Why was Nelson's own money not used in his own cause? Presumably for the same reason that his brother's money was laundered through a specially set-up Delaware front organization. 
One of the more interesting aspects of this case is that the publisher approached by Mr. Wells was Arlington Press. This is a hard line right-wing organization whose editor-in-chief, Neil McCaffrey, has very close ties with New York's Conservative Party. That party was wet up largely to counteract Nelson Rockefeller's hold on New York's Republicans. Mr. McCaffrey regularly refers to Rockefeller as "Nelly," and I have heard him 
talk about the governor as if he were the devil himself. Yet here is McCaffrey taking $60,000 (only doling out !10,000 to Lasky) from a man he knew was working in the Rockefeller campaign. Money makes strange political fellows. It is ironic that the man so feared and hated by right-wing Republicans is damaged most for his foolishly getting involved with them. 
It is hard in this case of characters, to come out looking worse than anyon~ else. Wells had to know Arlington's record, ~swell as Lasky's: the latter's two best-known endeavors were.anb-Kenn~dy books that clipped everv gossip column rumor and ptled them m a rickety fashion one upon another. 
But a judicious survey will, I think, find Nelson Rocke!eller coming off worst in even this bad col'I!pany. He, after .all, tned ~o whitewash the affair with a recent press release claimmg that his brother indulged in the Delaware operation as a good business venture--this despite the fact that the only book involved never went on the commercial market, was released only c. sa paperback, was set up and distributed murkily and not well. Furthermore, Rockefeller's brother did not report the unreturned $52,000 doled out in this operation as a bu~iness loss. 
No wonder. 1t wasn,l a business loss, but a campaign con­tribution of the shadiest sort. For Nelson Rockefeller to pretend otherwise at the late date of his press release, was to play dumb and to play us for being even dumber. When it bacame cl~ar ~at the story would not work, he tried another dodge-the. N1xoman acceptance of "responsibility" that would not spell O';lt h1s own full role in the affair. Prisident Ford better start lookmg for a new nominee as vice president-Edward Brooke, for instance, or Lowell Weicker. There must be some Republicans around without the taint of financial scandal to trip them up. 


P.O. 

' No' Concert 
To the Editor : 
After soliciting a concet. that merits the attention of the erttre Notre Dame community, you regressed back to the self­motivated, beaurocratic wheelings and dealings, reminiscant of last year's student union ticket scandals. 
Uponhearing of the Yes concert, we proceeded to your office asking for ticket information. The person to whom we spoke, upon our inquiry about mail orders, stressed the fact that we would probably get poor seats, and advised us to be "first in line." at the ACC or S.U. ticket office. We weren't first, but second in line should have been sufficient for half-way decent tickets. However our friend in line could manage but 19th row seats. We hardly think spending the night in the rain was worth it for poor Jim Boyle (good try, Jim). 
Where have the tickets gone? 
At Saturday's football game we overheard a spectator mention that she already had her tickets for the Yes concert, bragging she got them through a friend. 
"Well you know, she's no high 
climber, then you find your only 
friend." --Steely Dan. 
We later found out whilst social 
climbing at a Dillon Hall party, 
that mail order tickets weren't so 
bad afterall. People who were 
fortunate, by lucky guess or 
through discretive knowledge, 
were blessed with very good seats. 
I'll be the roundabout.. .but yours is 
the disgrace. Now, student union, 
clean it up. 
Leo C. Hansen, Gregg B. Bangs "P.S. At the concert-"Turn around, look at me." 

Girls--It's Your Move 

Dear Editor, After reading the article "Games People Play" in the 

'NOW, liTE ON THIIULLIT-THAT'LL STOP YOU WAITING ALL YOUI MONIY ON fOODI' 
October 16 edition of The Observer I must admit that I totally agree with the authors. I honestly feel that the males and females here really do not know how to talk to each other. Everyone seems to be afraid of saying the wrong thing so nothing gets said at all. Without any communication one party does not know how the other party feels. 
This and this only has led to our now famous "Battle of the Sexes" Most of the men feel that the women do not think that they are alive and the women think that the men are after one and only one thing. 
On Friday night Breen-Philips is hosting a Sadie-Hawkins dance in Stepan Center. Now it is time for the females on campus to ·practice what they preach and not be afraid to start talking, also, it is a chance for the guys to accept the invitation of a lady-any lady, no matter what her "vitals" are. This could be a major turning point in the social life pattern here at duLac. And for once, our women become the focal point. It is now their turn to make the move and to <pardon the pun) get the ball rolling. The success of this dance depends solely on our women. Let'sjust see if everything goes as easy for them as they think. All of the men I have talked to said they were not going unless asked. Also, they said if they were asked they would not mind paying for both of them. Now that the tables are turned let's see if the "Domerettes" will take positive action to end the "sexeration gao" 
Signed, Available 

Clarification 
To the Editor: 
The article in the Oct. 14th Ob­server on ND Social Atmosphere served to focus more clearly on one problem on campus: how the men and women of the ND-SMC com­munity perceive their interaction in non-academic areas. I wish to correct two statements which were attributed to me incorrectly. The first is a minor correction. From the perspective of a rector, as a factor to be overcome creatively if a residence hall sees the promotion of social interaction between men and women as one of its goals. Thus, for myself, it is a con­tradictory statement for students, on the one hand, to call a residence hall a home for nine months of the year and yet, on the other hand, to conduct all of their social activities outside of the hall. 
The second point concerns the "risk factor" in relationships. It is something of a truism to advert to the possibility of rejection as a typically male factor which raises a barrier to the self-disclosure which occurs in human relation­ships. Another factor which receives much less attention is 
operative  when  women  (who  
usually  are  not  thought  of  as  
having  to  "risk"  in  such  

relationships) are compared and stereotyped as a member of a 
group (either as a SMC woman or as a ND woman) rather than being met and accorded respect as an individual. Thus, one of the problems for the women of the ND­SMC community is the establish­ment of their personal, individual identity over and above often ill­informed and uniust stereotypes. 
I hope the Observer continues to investigate the whofe spectrum of men-women attitudes and relationships. This particular group of issues is too important to 

remain longer.  in  the  background  any  
Sincerely, Helen Gallagher  

Wlere Are You? 

Dear Sir: 
While I realize that yet another letter or piece on the mediocrity of Notre Dame is probably an exercise in futility, nevertheless please permit me a curmudgeonly "splutter.'' My "splutter" con­cerns the presence on campus last night of a great Catholic American I.ady--Abigail McCarthy. My questioh is, why was there no of­ficer of the University at her talk­and so far as I could see from a quick survey, no male C.S.C.? 
Now of course one might argue that the officers and priests cannot attend everything and greet everyone; but given the rhetoric (awful word) of our Catholic University, why was a wise Christian lady ignored, whilst the President can introduce, very reverently, the likes of David Rockefeller? (A very un­distinguished gentleman having nothing whatsoever to do with our role as a Christian University­unless of course we are still ren­dering to Caesar what is God's). And our Provost did (so I am told) introduce that very famous but rather unoriginal dispenser of secular wisdom -Ann Landers -to the campus. In citing these in­stances I am by no means suggesting that when attending lectures University officers automatically effect the in­troductions. No-what I want to see is the presence of such people at lectures as members of the lear­ning community. 
So they missed a sane, small gem of a lecture--quiet, amazingly unegotistical, a very wise stateemnt. The contrast with the vulgar Catholic truimphalism which parades as intelligent ar­ticulation of our goals as a Christian place of learning--as in the Notre Dame Report--was striking. A very dismaying per­formance on your part gentlemen. 
Yours sincerely, 
AnnWalshe 



..--~----~----.---------·-----------------------------~------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------· ­
10 the observer Friday, October 18. 1974 
toronto dance theatre --good beginnings 
a review by mary margaret sheeran 
Six years ago, a small modern dance 
dividual work of the TOT which creates a troupe performed a few pieces at the unique ensemble -actually an ensemble in Toronto Workshop Theatre. Under the well­the true sense of the word · with flexible schooled direction of Peter Randazzo, approaches to the art of dance and to the Patricia Beatty, and David Earle, the entourage as a whole. A glance at the Toronto Dance Theatre has evolved into the program shows dancers working as impressive entourage witnessed by the St. directors and costumers. This approach is :\1ary's-Notre Dame community last night reflected in the varied styles of Beatty, at O'Laughlin Auditorium. Earle, and Randazzo, and the company is 
1\lodern dance is not as strictly"defined as able to not adopt a certain style. is classical ballet, therefore any modern Hampering the efforts of the co-directors, dance troupe is freer to explore a number of though, is the company's technical skill. l'reative paths which may sometimes mix Control is not exact, and individual with other mediums. members appear to be at varying stages of 
Earle, Randazzo, and Beatty each studied development. Still, a desire for ensemble is with Martha Graham, and the resulting felt if not actually realized. This group basis of bodily tensions and opposites was needs more time to develop further. Pvident in last night's performance. Also reflecting the diversity of the group 
Randazzo's Ambt'r Garden startled us as was the music serving as background. an opening. The piece unfolded a quiet, Barnes, the Baroque composers, the moonlit mood interrupted by the tension of electronic music of resident composer Ann interweaving personalities. A few touches Southam, and Ray Charles. Arrangements of humor were left undeveloped. Susan used complemented the forms superbly. As Macpherson, the central figure, was cool for the lighting, the Amber Garden grace. Remaining alone onstage at the end, seemed always to be with us, as she had been in the beginning, her but the offence did not take away from the desolation echoed. Costumes gracefully quality of the performance. reflected the style of the work, the women Limitations granted, the attempts and swirling in classical gowns of warm colors. designs are exciting in themselves. Given 
Perhaps more acceptable to our audience, time and greater experience, it is almost unsure as to the nature of modern dance, inevitable that the TOT, with their concern was David Earle's Baroque Suite. Here, to for the dance, coupled with their ex­the rich textures of Bach, Vivaldi, and perimentation, will prove to be a definitive Corelli, the company smoothly exhibited voice. The potential and imagination is exquisite, delicate movements. In one there, and only a greater technique to ex­section, Mirrors. the dancers reflected, yet press and execute the creative ideas of the differed from, each other's movemenbi. leading artists is needed. The performance was smooth, but not as control was not as perfect. With the sym­Randazzo seems more interested in ex­Last night, during an intermission, precise as it should have been, the marriage bolism of suicidal intents the work is ternals and technique rather than the un­someone nearby desparately flung out, of music and dance not thoroughly worked chilling in its aftermath. derlying themes of the choreographic "Will someone explain to me what is going out. Still, a shimmering beauty permeated A good closing for this audience was the pattern. He works on the boundaries of on?" the piece. pure fun of the Ray Charles Suite, also classical and modern, stressing the need for Like we said, it's going to take time -for 
Stunning visually and dramatically was designed by Earle. Within a delightful freedom andd a "non-definition" of modern the audience as well as for the company. In Patricia Beatty's Against Sleep, a tug of catch--all of fifties' humor, the company dance. Earle's concern for already existing the meantime, last night's performance was savage opposites with the music providing executed well-done phrases of dance and dance traditions is a firm basis for his in­evidence of some good beginnings for both. an eerie, nightmarish effect. The electricity mime. ternal searching for subtle, sensual, and hetween soloists Earle and Beatty, who On the whole, Randazzo's work is the humorous touches, of saying the "same, old prove themselves the virtuosos of the TOT, more detached and logical, Beatty's thing" in a different way. Beatty's work is ballet tickets was caught by the audience. Earle, as the language is lyrical and smooth, and Earle's honest, focusing on the heart of the design 
Tickets for Monday night's performance

·'dark guest whose intent is seduction", as designs are both primitive and universal. itself rather than physical forms. Her work by the Cincinnati Ballet Company are onhis part is described, was precise in his All three directors are concerned with the is also the most lyrical. 
sale in the Student Union. Admission is $3.50 

movements whereas Patricia Beatty's exploration of the forms of the dance. These three are artists, but it is the in-for adults and $2.50 for studnets. 


it's like tryin' to tell a stranger 
a review by fred graver 
And it's magic, if the music is groovy 
"Don't bother to choose, if it's jugband enjoyable, most fulfilled promises of the 
And makes you feel happy like an old time music or rhythm and blues, Sixties rock scene. And the band he's movie." 
Anll it's magic if it starts with a smile ... " playing with are a big part of that coming out. Start with the two excellent lead 
.John Sebastian is unquestionably, without First, the warm-up group was damn good. guitarists. reserve, the ace-number-<>ne good time There are a lot of folkies hanging around "Out of Detroit we have Lonnie Koss." I guitar player around. So I spent my time here, but these guys were a high cut above knew this guy was going to be good when I bopping and stomping and smiling at last the rest. Their names were Beggart, saw the kind of guitar he was going to be night's concert. Blanford, Blanford and Steinman. Blanford playing--Fender Stratocaster--"The Guitar 
We used to go to dances in high school, and and Blanford are brothers: one plays really of Garcia." (For some reason the Dead when we'd had the best time and music was fine banjo, the other plays harmonica and keep rising in this review. ) good and we danced ourselves senseless, guitar, and sings like it's the gospel truth. "From Nashville Tennessee, Jerrywell, if you missed it, baby, you missed. Blanford plays guitar just like he looks, tall McKuen." This cat really laid in some 
Last night--if you missed it, well, you and lanky and a bit self-conscious, but with tasty, tasty licks. I especially remember his 
111 isst'd it. a sound that's might comfortable, work on "She's a Lady," which gave the nonetheless. The real wizard is this cat song a dreamy, reflective quality. Steinman. Mandolin and guitar, and some "Kenny Altman on bass." This dude was expert vocal works--he carries the other just a joy to behold. I've never seen a bass excellent musicians with real strength. player who enjoyed his work as much as this 

one did. At times he reminded me of Rick 
They really worked well last night, Danko of the Band, but most of the time he fighting off nervousness and poor acoustics just knocked me out. Really good bass at first. But the audience and their own work, and dancing, playful stage presence feeling for each other carried them through. that was utterly crazy. 
Especially memorable was their "Me and "On drums, Kelly Shannon." The best My Uncle," a Grateful Dead classic (and thing you can say about this guy is he really what song the Dead does isn't?) played did his job without overdoing it. Quite a admirably. talent for a drummer. He weaved in and 
Now, when was the last time you went to a out, working with the bass player, and was 
concert and the star just went and bounded totally controlled and easy. up onto the stage with the biggest damn All in all, this was one of the finest bands smile and just hollered "Hello Notre to play Notre Dame in a long, long time. (Photo by Paul Joyce)Dame!" And when was the last time you And this was one of the finest audiences for 
As he reached the end, Sebastian whipped 

saw a group that looked like they popped out a concert, too. They were wonderfully 
up old memories, playing "Did You Ever

of the womb together, they were so tight. receptive, both of Sebastian and of the 
Have to Make Up Your Mind," "Summer inWell, if you missed it last night, you warm-up group. 

the City," "Lashes LaRue," "What a Day

probably won't see it for a long time. From "If you believe in magic, come along 
for a Daydream," and of course, "Do You"Sittin' Here Lovin' You" to the closing with me... " Believe in Magic," my all time favorite

"Darlin' Be Home Soon," this pand cooked. Sebastian played a good mixture of old 
Sebastian song.

and nevfmaterial. The new came from his "Do you believe, like I believe ... " 
"The Music and the Magic that can set recent album "Tarzana Kid," and included 
So, like I said, if you missed it, you missed 

you free" the rocker "Black Satin Kid," and quiet but 
it. And if you didn't, well, we'll know who

Sebastian has really gone out of himself, piercing "Sittin' Here in Lumbo," and the 
we are by the tunes we'll be humming as we 

(Photo by Paul Joyce) out of the old folkie and into one of the most absolutely exquisite "Face of Appalachia."
... walk down the quad . 

~~ --~-..------~---~--~------~-­
Friday, October 1&, 1974 • the observer '• l r 
Volunteers needed 
SUNDAY MASSEs· 
(MAIN CHURCH) 
Senior Club opening delayed 
5:15 p.m. Sat. FR. BOB GRIFFIN CSC
by Matt Yokum relaxed atmosphere where you can be allowed. The legal thing is that 
9:30 a.m. Sun. FR. LEN BANAS CSC
bring a date," said Spann. He seniors are considered local
Staff Reporter 
10:45 a.m. Sun. FR. RICHARD CONNERS CSC
continued "there will be a stage for alumni and the club is for alumni." 
Senior Club Business Manager entertainment, such as folk music Shanahan reported the 
12:15 p.m. Sun. FR. BILL TOOHEY CSC 
Jin1 Shanahan announced or any type of performer." management of the club will also 
yesterday that the opening of the be we11 organized. He said
Premium beers, wine and cheese 
Senior Club will be delayed until "general manager Ruth Smith,
and sandwiches can be brought
Nov. 6th. Shanahan cited lack of Jim Sweedyk, Bob Spann and
from the upper south bar room to 
THE ROMA
volunteer help from seniors in myself will be reporting general
the entertainment room, Spann
renovating the building as the goings-on, recent specials and
said. The upper bar room has also 
PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD
main cause of the setback. financial statements each Monday 
been carpeted and will contain 
to the operating committee." 
Your Host Frank Anastasio
Bob Span, senior class vie tables . Spann hopes that people 
Shanahan indicated the operating
president, said"up until two weeks would be willing to contribute or 
'A PIZZA YOUCANNOT REFUSE'
committee is composed of the club 
ago only four or five people were display any photos or artwork to 
managers and Dr. Robert
helping. Nowronly have about ten complement the club-like at­
LI.V E B A N D S 0 N W E E K E N D S 
Ackerman, Director of Student
steady volunteer workers.'' mosphere of the upper two rooms. 
Affairs, Fr. Terrance Lally, vice­
Call 23.4·3258 For Delivery
Shanahan said another reason The rna in bar room will be op the 
president of Student Affairs, and
for the delay was that ·•we want newly paneled first-floor, 
Dean of Students John Macheca." 
219 N; Mic.h. Ave. Downtown
Pverything complete, the total :,hanahan said. He also indicated 
Shanahan said ''The manager will
atmosphere of a club created. the adjacent Monogram Room 
control the day-to-day policy while 
At North End Of River Bend Plaza
brl'oJ·•· the club is opened. We are will he for dancing and contain 
the operating committee will set
trying to get everything set for this gam" machines and a jukebox. 
up general policy and guidelines."
vear with an eve to the future so Shanahan added that various types 
''The management of the club 
WEEKEND JOB
ihat future classes will not en­of beers will be served from five 
will emphasize the club-like at­
counter on~amzm~t and taps at the main bar. . Top-line 
mosphere" Shanahan continued. 
Indiana's Largest Lake Developer
renovation problems." 
liquor will also be served. 
"There will be nightly en­
Both Shanahan and Spann 
Needs Several Ambitious Seniors
Assistant Manager Jim Sweedyk tertainment, no cover, and dancing. 
l'mphasized that one of the pur­added "the restrooms have also downstairs."
poses of renovation is to create a 
Or Grad Students To Work Weekends
been renovated and everything Spann concluded, "the club willmore club-like atmosphere. Spann will be kept very clean." be run with the seniors in mind and 
Thru October Near Lake Wawasee.
pointed out the second floor of the Sweedyk also said that the bar much of the profit willl go back into club will be more quiet and sub­will be open Wednesday through the club to run specials." Spanndued. 
Gas PaicJ. Free Housing.
Saturday. Reemphasized the club felt the club "Is going to be a"The upper north room has been will be for seniors and "only bargain because of many specials 
Minimum $50

carpeted and will contain small seniors who present their mem­and rhe drinks will be the cheapest tables and pillows for a quiet, bership cards with their J.D. will around."· 
CALL C. STONE {219)636-7189 St. Mary's law society to hold meeting, 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's 
Theater announces 
all students interested in lawinvited 
TRYOUTS 
within the legal profession 
FELLOWS
by Jane Cannon students. Marikaye Flyke, a 
Students who are interested in
Staff Reporter senior history major, is the 
law but do not plan to pursue a
The St. Mary's Law Society will president and Dr. Deanna by Christopher Ceraso (Premiere Production)
career in that field are also
Sokolowski, professor of english, is 
meet this Sunday, October 20, in Sun., Oct. 20 and Mon., Oct. 21 7:00P.M.
welcome to work with the Society
the faculty advisor.
the LeMans Board Room at 7:30 
to expand their interests. Washington Hall (Use rear stairway entrance) 
The Society sponsors speakersp.m. A panel of women law 
For additional information
students will discuss the study and and events aimed at informing Cast Needs Two Men Only
contact Marikaye Flyke at 4493 or
individuals of their legal rights and 
practice of law. Women students No Preparation Necessary 
Dr. Deanna Sokolowski at 4917.
enabling them to exercise and
with an interest in law are invited to attend the discussion and protect these right. Past speakers a••••••••••••0 •••••••••••• •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
have included Professor Schmall, 0
meeting. 0 The Saint Mary's Law Society is 
St. Mary's Business Law teacher, • 







BOOKTI-WFT •
an organization geared towards 
~~~r~~~~e:!fr L~~n~i \~~ch~~t~~ : :
women in the community who are Dame Law School. • •interested in law and its effects on Students who hope to pursue a ! •
daily life as well as the study and practice of law as a career. career in law are offered an op-• 
FOR BOOKlD)VERS
portunity to meet with others with : similar goals and to use the •
The Saint Mary's Law Society is 
an organization geared towards facilities and resources of the Law •
women in the community who are interested in law and its effects on Society. : Come join us at our extraordinary daily life as well as the study and 
Those students unsure of their • practice of law as a career. In its future plans are invited to learn : 50°/o OFF 
more about law as a career and •
second year. the Society has a 
giant paperback book sale. 
membership of approximately 25 about the various specialities : 
• Outstanding current and back list
•

• 
titles from many leading publishers . 

• 
This is a sale Booklovers can't afford to miss . 

• 
HAIVU\AES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE


•
•

• 2nd Floor Book Dept. Sale starts 10/18/74 

• 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

• • 


----~--------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------~----~----~-~-------­
Friday, October 18, 1974
12 the observer 

Rocky's wile has tumor; cancerous breast removed 
Hv AI. ROSSITER JR. 
iTPI Science Editor 
WASHINGTON <UPil -The breast cancer of first lady Betty Ford prompted Mrs. Happy Rockefeller and thou­sands of other women across the nation to check their breasts for signs of the disease. 
"There is some good in all difficulties," President Ford said Thursday after his vice presidential nominee Nelson Hockefeller disclosed in New York that his wife had a breast removed Thursday after three small lumps proved to be cancerous. 
Spokesmen for the National Cancer Institute and the Ameri­l·an Cancer Society <ACS> said their jointly-funded 27 breast cancer detection centers have been swamped with calls from anxious women since Mrs. Ford's right breast was removed Sept. 28. 
"There has been a very great increase in requests for ap­pointments," a cancer society spokesman said in New York where the society is holding its annual meeting. He said the requests to enter the breast cancer screening projects have increased from four to 10 times since Mrs. Ford's illness. Waiting lists are as long as six months at some centers. 
"In addition, literally thou­sands of women have requested the breast check pamphlet put out by the American Cancer Society," the spokesman said. The pamphlet outlines the methods a woman can check her breasts monthly for abnor­malities. 
Rockefeller said his wife discovered three small lumps in her left breast last Friday and immediately went to her gynecologist for examination. She entered the hospital Wednesday and underwent surgery Thursday, knowing that if small specimens of the tumor turned out to be malignant her entire breast would be remo­ved. 
Mrs. Ford's tumor was discovered by her physician during a routine examination. She too underwent surgery knowing that if the biopsy revealed the presence of cancer her breast would be amputated. 
Ford told a group of Spanish­American leaders that Mrs. Hockefeller discovered her tu­mors as a rest.lt of Mrs. Ford's surgery. 
Trustees react 

to student report 
(continued from page 5) 
new decisions have been made." 
Carney was also struck by a particular fact cClntained in a student report on coeducation, given by Palma, at :.he meeting. "Out of the 1,100 significant faculty and administr.ative positions dealing with students, only 110 are held by women," he said quoting Palma. 
Hellmuth said that the oroblena of residentiality is financial . "The question is what can we do tto make the halls more livable with the limited available funds," he ~aid. Remaining on the topic of finances, Hellmuth raised another question: "Are the students paying for more of the operating expenses of the university than they are recieving the benefits for?" 
Hellmuth, an attorney from Boston, concluded that "the problem of finances actually un­derlies all the other four areas of concerneds mentioned in the student report." 


Just three years out of college, laser technol­In time, the lasers proved unsuccessful in ogist Jim Carroll didn't make senior research treating cancer, but we'd do it again if we had to. physicist at Eastman Kodak Company by acting Because while we're in business to make a profit, timid. So when he had the courage to pit science we care what happens to society. It's the same against a dread disease, we backed him. Win or society our business depends on. lose. 
The medical community enlisted Kodak's 

~Kodak.
help in training lasers on the war oncancer. We responded with a pair of 500 million watt laser ~ More than a business. systems. And left the rest up to Jim. 
Oller possible solutions 


Professors talk on hunger 
by Bill Gonzenbach Staff Reporter 
Overpopulation, natural disasters, and in some cases urban attitudes have heightened the problem of worl!t hunger in the '70's. 
Last evening, three Notre Dame professors addressed an attentive audience in the Library lounge on the topic of world hunger. 
Dr. Karamjit Rai, professor of Biology, discussed India's hunger problems. Dr. Peter Walshe, professor of Government and Dr. Oscar Brookins, professor of Economccs, analyzed the problems in Africa. 
Som·cf's of Trouble 
Dr. Rai revealed that population increase is one of the major sources of India's problems. "The Indian population is increasing faster than it ought to be. There is an increase of 2.7 percent an­nually," stated Rai. 
Dr. Brookins stated that the cause of the hunger problems in Africa was that the development of states in Africa created boundaries which prohibited migration in times of hunger. "Before, the people could migrate to new areas for needed food; now this is im­possible," said the professor.
, 
Dr. Walshe pointed out that a lack of national unity in Africa caused the hunger problem. "The hunger problem is not simply a climate problem, it is a social and political problem," said the professor. 
Dr. Rai stated three other problems in India. 
First he said the India govern­ment's' priorities were "mixed­up." 
"For every dollar spent for agriculture, three and one half dollars are spent on industry said Rai. He then commented that India needs a better agricultural plan than the present one. 
Secondly, he stated, "The world's economic inflation and recession has cut back mone~to India." He believes this added to India's hunger problem. 
Thirdly, he observed that heavy rains and the deforestation of northern India have resulted in flooding and erosion which has 
hurt India's food crop. with other nations," said the Dr. Brookins disclosed that other professor.sources of problems in Africa were 
Dr. Brookins called for theincreased population and the development of an agriculturalcreation of an urban elite who plan that would arrest the controls ignored agriculture. 
of the urban elite who are "out of touch with the agriculturalSolutions region." 
Dr. Rai stated India needs long Dr. Rai gave other possible and short range solutions to the solutions to India's hungerhunger problem The native In­problem. "India needs to decrease dian said, "India needs to beg, its population; a goal of zero steal or borrow 7 million metric population growth is needed," said tons of grain.'' the professor. 
Rai disclosed that from 1951 to The professor cited that India 1971 India had increased its grain has had birth control program s crop from 50 million to 109 million since 1951. He added that though metric tons. He stated that recent there are 6000 free clinics, many 
floods and population growths farmers continue to have children have caused yet a greater need. to give them additional farm 
workers.
"In a long range plan India needs to modernize its agricultural Dr. Walshe said other possible system," said Rai. The professor solutions were the development of felt positive that it could be ac­free food assistance programs, complished in the near future. subsidized technical projects and 
the coordination of the world grain Dr. Walshe stated one possible reserve.
solution to Africa's hunger problem would be a change in the The lecture was the second of 
Western ideology of aid. "We have three lectures presented on world 
to resort from our individual, hunger by the Program on Non­competitive profit system to a 
Violence. An audience of Ap­belief in sharing our resources proximately 50 persons attended. 
SMC Coffeehouse· offers 
a relaxing amosphere 
by Mary Pat Egan 
Staff Reporter The present SMC coffeehouse has been in operation for three
St. Mary's has a coffeehouse in 
years, the last two under
the recently renovated snack shop Carrigan's direction. Previouslyunderneath the SMC dining hall there had been a coffeehouse in the every Friday night from 9 pm to 1 Moreau basement during the years am. "The purpose," says its 
1967-1971.
director Kathy Carrigan, "Is to Student opinion of the cof­provide an enjoyable atmosphere feehouse isgenerallyfavorable. "Ifor students to relax." 
enjoy going there after a date or"There is a variety of musical just with some friends to unwind,"talent available on campus and in said one student.
the South Bend area" said Some students feel that theCarrigan. "We've had every kind coffeehouse should operateof music from electric rock to jug Saturday evenings as well. This is 
bands to piano instrumentals," she explained. 
not presen8y possible as it would involve finding someone toCarrigan feels that the cof­organize it.
feehouse's atmosphere has im­This week's performers includeproved this year a-s a result of the Sail, a group of seminarians whoinstallation of new switches on the perform folk music from 9 pm to 10lights, and its own Peavey sound 
system. pm; Jim Rutter from 10 to 11, Mel Wesley from 11 to 12; and Jack
SMC's Student Government and Kellaher from 12 to 1.
Sage, the college's food service, Tonight's Saga food special ishave financially supported the $0.10 jumbo chocolate chip cookies. 
coffeehouse somewhat in the past. 
Anyone interested in performingSaga presently covers advertismg may contact Carrigan at 4386.
costs. 


TONIGHT!. 

LADIES NIGHT WINE COOLERS 25 <t UNCLE WILLIE'S 
FATAL GLASS OF BEER 
-~--------~----~.._..------·--------, 
Friday, October 18, 1974 
the observer 13 

ATTENTION STUDENT PHOTOGRAPHERS 
The Admissions Office Needs SLIDES Depicting Life At Notre Dame (social, sports, religious). $1.00 will be Paid for each slide that they decide to use. THEY ARE NEEDED RIGHT NOW! CALL Dan Saracino at 7505 (Admissions Office) 
HALLOWEEN BENEFIT 
FRIDAY OCT. 18 
9:00 -1:00 REGINA HALL NORTH MUSIC BY 
'LISTEN' 
75 cent ADMISSION ALL PROCEEDS TO CARE 
OIL PAINTING CLASSES 
6 \!\lEEKS I $30 530N MICHIGAN 
CAll 
287-25.83 

PA RTIME JOB 
Responsible Reliable Student to supervise Christmas Decoration Installation. 
If interested Please call 291-7300 Between 8:30 & 5:30pm 
GODSPELL 
SAT. OCT. 19, 7:00 & 9:30P.M:
lO'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM S.M.C. 


Call the Fidelity Union Collegel\'1aster' Field Associate in your area: 
1005 E. LaSalle South Bend, Ind. Phone 287-2327 

®

COl 
• ~ 
! 
~ 
t 


_:_1--'4------=the _()bserve-:..::r_______Friday, october 18, 1974 
Irish hope to avoid errors against stubborn Cadets 
(continued from page 16) 
As for t~e Irish defense, which stopped R1ce for only 45 seconds­half total yards last Saturday, and has allowt>d only 198 yards per game, this fine consistency will again be their goal. 
"I think the boys have all im­proved ~onsiderably since August, to the pomt where there is no single defensive 1 star each game." commented defensive line coach .Joe Yonto. ''Each game has shown the consistency we've strive for, but at the same time, we can never afford to. regard any of our op­ponents lightly, for we may be in for a rude awakening." 
Thl· immediate concern to Yonto and his staff is in Army's offensive line. "Whatever yo do, don't un­dersell Army," pleaded Yonto. "They're li-4 <splint end Howard Williams>, 6-3 <left tackle Art Liepold >, 6-5 <right tackle Neil Begley> and 6-4 (tight end Jeff Jancek > along their offensive line. Their line averages 220 pounds which is just about the sam~ average as the other teams we play. ~o. we definitely are running up agamst a tough, sticky team in Army." 

To battle this 'sticky team; will be the front four of Steve Niehaus Kevin Nosbusch, Mike r,a~ning and Jim Stock. Nosbusch, perhaps the most unheralded player on the team, has been improving with each game. "Kevin's done a fine job for us, and we're extremely proud of him," noted Yonto. He and Mike <Fanning) have definitely asserted themselves to be fine football players this year." 
DPfensive Backfield Coach Paul ~hoult~ feels that his group may be m the1r best shape this season. "The Rice game was the first occurrence where we played a sound ball game for four quarters .. 
Our young players like Randy and 


IH deadline 

The Office of Interhall Athletics announces today, October 18th as the deadline for tournament; in four sports. The four sports are: grad school doubles handballl r~cquetball singles, handbali s~ngles, and women's racquetball smgles. Anyone interested in signing up for any of these tour­neys sh?uld either call-6100 or stop at the mterhall office, C-4 of the ACC. . 
Halloween Bash proceeds to go to drought victi~m 

by Cathy Busto 
Staff RPporter 
The proceeds of tonight's "Halloween Benefit Bash" will be donated to charity, Jennifer Namtze, day student at St. Mary's explained yesterday. 
"All of the proceeds will go to CARE to help the West African drought victims," Namtze said. 
She explained that the Student: Government allotted some money to the day students for their ac­tivities during the year and the students wanted to contribute the mo~ey to charity. Peggy O'Brien, adv1sor for off-campus students compiled a list of worthwhil~ projects from which the day students selected CARE. 
"We picked CARE because it is the lowest-overhead-run organization. so we know that most of the moeny will go to the people, not to advertising," Namtze ob­served. 
"We wanted to do something worthwhile with the money " Namtze continued. "We are ~o we_ll-of_f her~ while people art' dymg m Afr1ca," she affirmed. 
The "RPnefit Ra_!ih" will be in the Regina North Lounge from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Th donations is $0.75; costumes are optional. 

"Listen" will provide the music and refreshments will be served A kissing booth, palm reader and apple bobbing will be featur~d. 

Quickie schedule 
The "_Quickie" shottle bus system Will again be in service this weekend the Ombudsman an­nounced today· Discount tickets to the Scottsdale, Town and Country and State Theaters will also be on sal~ at the student Union ticket of~Ice. for only $1.50. (so take your chl~kl~ to the flickie on the 
QUICkie) 

Respect for life 
T~e month of October has been designated Respect for Life Month for the year 1974. To observe this 
a  mass  will  be  offered  for  th~  
fundamental  right  to  life  at  the  
Grotto  at  5  p.m.  Saturday  af­ 
ternoon.  

THE 



W:INERY 
2426 LINCOLNWAY." WEST--MISHAWAKA, INDIANA TELEPHONE ~~ 
All the Finest European Cheeses Gift Boxes of Cheeses & Fancy Foods Oriental Cooking Ingredients
... 
10 °/o Cheese & Fancy Food Discount to Faculty & Students French Bread & Croissants New York Cheesecake Greek Olives 
John (Harrison and Dubenetsky) are coming of age, and Randy Payne, who's had no previous experience starting, has played well. If we can continue our play into the Army game and beyond, we should be in good shape." 
Ara Parseghian is hoping that will go for the entire team. 
Rally at 6:30 

Tonight the legend of the im­mortal Knute Rockne comes alive at the Notre Dame football rally. The "Rock" comes alive in the fiftieth anniversary of death famine, pestilence, and war--th~ four horseman. It was October 18 1924, that the horseman and thei; teammates rode over all their opponents that season, including an undefeated Stanford team in the Rose Bowl. 
. During Friday's rally, beginn­nmg at 6:30 to allow fans to get to the hockey game, all the surviving members of this team will be honored. As a special tribute to Rockne, an actual-film of ND's winningest coach will be shown. ~eatured speakers for the evening mclude Drew Mahalic, Frank Alloco, offensive backfield coach Tom Pagna, and four horseman Don Miller. See it all tonight at Stepan Center beginning at 6:30. 
HARQ.D MEOOW USED CARS AND TRUCKS 
~ 

LaFayette 

at LaSalle Phone 233-2129 

Kevin Nosbusch, Jim Stock and company will try to keep Cadet quar­terback Scott Gillogly as busy tomorrow as they kept Rice's Claude Reed last week. 
FOOTBALL TICKET EXCHANGE 


HELP A KID SEE A FOOTBALL GAME 
TURN IN YOUR TICKETS 




TODAY 
AT TICKET WINDOW 2nd FLOOR ACC 
ANY QUESTIONS CALL DAVE AT 

~i.
,­

Friday, October u., 1974 the observer 15 

Irish icers open with Minnesota 
by Bob Kissel 

Tonight at 7:30p.m. Charles 'Lefty' Smith officially unleashes the 1974­
1975 edition of Fighting Irish hocky in an exhibition game against the 
Minnes(lta Golden Gophers. 
The Irish are a young, aggressive team who have no credentials 
coming into this season. Their credentials will be established in each 
game against the tough opponents of the WCHA. 
"We're going to be a full team operation this season," remarked for­
w·~r blueliner Smith. "Our squad will be a skating team, emphasizing a 
~o-gomovement on the whole shift. With our good physical size, the game 
plan will be to control the flow of play by aggressive forechecking and 
backchecking." 
The players are extremely anxious to play Minnesota. The team has 
been practicing all-out since September 9 with conditioning, ice drills, 
and a few scrimmages, but all against each other. 
Offensively for the Irish, Coach Smith has Pat Conroy at center bet­
ween Jim Augustine and Tim Byers, Clark Hamilton pivotting between 
Pat Novitski and Kevin Nugent, Jeff Collier handling the faceoff duties 
for Alex Pirus and Mark Olive, and Bill Giusti centering for David Howe 
and AI Karsnia. 
Lefty Smith will dress seven defensemen, pairing Jack Brownschidle 
and Paul Clarke, LesLarson and Roger Bourque, Bob Jackson and Lew 
Curry with Dan Byers .the seventh skater. In goal Smith will start fresh­
man Len Moher, who has had the best preseason of the goalies. Fresh­
man John Peterson and soph Dave Caron will see action in the contest. 
Last week the team elected soph blueliner Paul Clarke as team captain, with Pat Conroy and Les Larson as the alternates. "This is the first time in my coaching experience that a sophomore has been elected as team captain," commented Smith. "It is indicative of a strong sense of maturity in this young man to come up with this achievement." 
Almost seven months to the date, Minnesota made history in the world of collegiate hockey--the Golden Gophers won the NCAA hockey title without playing a single Canadian. To be more precise, every player came from one state--Minnesota. 
Minnesota is not the same team that won it all last March 16th in 
Boston. They have graduated key senior players like Brad Shelstad, the 
most valuable player in the NCAA playoffs, Cal Cossalter, and John Perpich. "Minnesota is an experienced club who know and can handle WCHA pressure," noted Smith. "With players like Mike Polich, Bill Schneider, Les Auge, and their recruiting in Minnesota's junior league, I expect them to be like last year--a quick, skating club with good size." "We are definitely out to win against Minnesota, exhibition game or not," remarked Coach Smith. "I will be looking at our goaltending .and how well the guys play two-way positional hockey. This game is ideal for us from the standpoints of assessing our prospects against top-notch
competition." The Irish are physically healthy, with the exception of soph center Brian Walsh who has not skated this week because of a severe 'charley horse' sustained last Friday. Freshman Jeff Collier will replace Walsh at his center position. 
WSND-AM will cover the game live beginning at 7:15 with Mark Ar­minio handling the play-by-play action. WSND-AM will carry all home games, with the FM side airing a tape delay broadcast of the contest later 
at night. The Notre Dame hockey team has finished an excellent training camp. They have exceeded all the goals which Coach Smith sees as necessary for acompetitiveunit. Every player has worked hard and is eager to play. Tonight the Irish will show their credentials, by what they do on the ice. 



CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Desperately need 2 GA tix for Miami call Bob-7471 or 1152 
NEEDED: CAMPING EQUIP­MENT FOR OCTOBER BREAK-­TENTS, MESS KITS, ETC & FISHING POLES--WILL RENT OR BUY. CALL OBSERVER 8661 
Want ride to Ithaca or other pt. in NY for break. Emily 289-5162 
Need ride to New Orleans or anywhere near Oct. break. Share$ and driving. Marie 8085 
Riders wanted to Kansas City tor Oct. Break. Steve 8198 
Wanted 2 GA tix for Miami. Please call 4508 
NEED RIDE BACK TO NO AF­TER OCT. BREAK--FROM NORTH DAKOTA OR N.W. MINN. Call Tom 3306 
Need 2 GA tix for Pitt game. Will pay top dollar. Call Steve 3123. 
Need 2 or 4 GA tix for Pitt. Call Frank at 287-7026 
WANTED: VETERAN­STUDENT FOR WORK-STUDY POSITION UNDER V.A. PROGRAM. $250.00 FOR 100 HOURS. APPLY THROUGH ND PERSONNES OFFICE OR CALL 237-4415 
WANTED: ONE OR TWO RIDERS TO BOSTON SUNDAY MORNING, OCT 27, ALSO RETURNING TO SOUTH BEND FROM PHILADELPHIA AT 4:00 SATURDAY NOV 2. CALL 272-9895 BBETWEEN 7:00 and 9:00 
Need ride to Wash. DC for break. Ca II 8385 after 11 
Need 7-~ r..A or student tix for Pitt. Cal Chuck 1 1592 
NEED 4 GA PITT TIX. CALL 3665 
Need one Pitt ticket desperately. Call Lisa at 3351 
Badly need a ride to St. Louis for October break. Call Hogie at 1612 
Need ride to St. Louis for break­can leave any time. Will share expenses. Call Nellie 4396 
Ride needed to Phila-NJ area on Thurs. Oct 24. Call 8736 
Need 2 GA tickets for Pitt. Tom­288-2613 
Need ride to Oklahoma Oct. Break. CaII Cyndi, 5776 or 5428 
Need ride to St. Louis or Kansas City Oct break. Call Cyndi 5776 or 5428 
Desperately need ride to L.l. or 
N.J. tor Oct. break. Will share expenses. Call Debbie 5198 
Need ricie to Boston for Oct. break. Call Jane 7995 
Need 4 GA tix for Pitt. Call Beth, 5144 
NEED RIDE TO GETTYBURG, PA. AREA FOR OCTOBER BREAK. CALL VAL-8143 
Wanted-Riders, Points South San Antonio, Tex Oct. 26, Gil 1060 
NEED 2 GA TICKETS FOR MIAMI GAME. CALL JIM 3805 
WANTED: RIDE TO NYC, AROUND OCT 10. CALL MICHELE 5745 
Need 2 GA tix for Pitt. Call Larry, 288-7375 
NOTICES 

Secret Life of Plants now in paper backs at Pandoras Books 602 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
Will do typing of any kind. Call 233­4484 
But You've Got To Have Friends Gay Students of Notre Dame P.O. Box 1702 South Bend, Ind. 46601 
Typing-Electric typewriter; Carbon ribbon available. Call Michele 232-9061 
Ski Aspen Jan. 4-11; Lodging and Lifts only $130. Last day for $50 Deposit Fri. Oct 18--Call 6856 or rm. 314 Farley 
ND-SMC Council for Retarded­extra volunteers needed for N D­Army game, This Sat. 11 AM, at Logan Center. More information, call Kevin 289-3408 
Legal Problem but no money? ND Legal Aid can help. Call 283-7795 M-F, 1-4 pm 
WINO! MOST DISTINCTIVE SOUND ON CAMPUS! MAKE YOUR NEXT PARTY OR DANCE SPECIAL CALL MITCH 272-9321 
TICKETS FOR THE OCTOBER 20 AEROSMITH & MAHOGANY RUSH CONCERT AT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE 
24 hr. TV repair service. 7 days a week; Sundays & Holidays. Color TV's $60 and up. Stereo units $50 and up. Call Western Electronics­
282-1955 
Castenada's new book "Tales of Power" now in s_tock!! Pandora's Books 
STEVIE WINWOOD & TRAFFIC IN CONCERT TONIGHT AT 8:30 AT INDIANA UNIVERSITY ASSEMBLY HALL, BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA. GOOD TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR TONIGHT. A BAM­BOO PRODUCTION. 
FOR SALE 

For sale-4 Army tix. call Tim at 288-4217 or Bill at 7471 
Akai Gx-400 DSS open Reel w­advent 101 Dolby. Must sell-Mike 1487 
For Sale-5 GA Army tix $8.50 each. Call Dave 3073 
4 Army Tickets regular price. Call Bill 1207 
FOR SALE-4 ARMY TICKETS CHEAP. CALL JEFF 3316 
'67 Dodge '12 ton 37,000 miles. excellent running cond. New breaks and battery. $1,000. 232-8500 
4 Army GA tickets. Call Dan 1772 
2 GA Army tix. Call John 8936 
FOR SALE 6 ARMY TICKETS. CHEAP. CALL 288-7946 
FOR SALE: TWO GA ARMY TIX. CALL JOHN 1774 
FOR SALE: 2 OR 3 GA TICKETS TO ARMYGAME AT COST. CALL 7471 OR SEE MARCY AT THE OBSERVER OFFICE. 
FOR SALE: '72 KAWASAKI 175 
t<UAU & TRAIL BIKE $500 277­0127 
10 speed 26' Schwinn Continental.· excellent cond. call 8849 
FOR SALE: 4 ARMY TIX. CALL KRIS, AFTER 8, 233-2924 
'70 Opel. Needs work, body and engine. New starter, carb, tires, 20+ MPG. Call 232-8500 Best offer 
·Pioneer PL-51 turntable with Audio Technica AT-15S cartridge. $290 with AT-12S $260. Call Ed 1487 
FOR SALE: 2 ARMY TIX--CALL ANDY AT 1612 
Sherwood 58900-A Dynaquad FM Receiver. 60 Watts RMS 9 mos. old. $300 call before 2:30 232-8854 
LOST & FOUND Found a gold lady's wristwatc Found; gold lady's San Marino 
wristwatch last week. call 8132 
PERSONALS 
MJB meet me on the 50, I've tot the ring_ 
M. Dog 
Mary D. in 104; happy sweetest. "Magic" 
SandY-en rencontrant ta mere, une chose a souvenir-courage! -Yours 
Doris ­I feel a phone call coming tomorrow night. 
s 
Dear Melissa Even though I'm not going to be here, try to have a happy birthday. Love, Coothe 
Flopsy-The magic has left and so have I, the kid is not yours--how could he be? My real lover has always been 
Uncle Tom C. Kathy 
To Boo on the 3rd floor Farley 1 have admired you from afar and 1 think we could go far. Towards reaching that elevated star How about · a date? Please call Da11e B 199• 

C.M.­
You have subsumed and tran­scended the Waste Land. Fie on the critics! the Yankee Clipper never read Swift, Eliot, or Pound and he will outlive them all. Rem~mber: Rock 'n Roll is here to stay. CT 
To 2 SMC Freshmen: We are a pair of disillusioned Morrissey Hall Freshmen who are presently suffering from the monastic Life. It similar symp­toms prevail please call 3573 ask lor Friar Dan or Brother Jim 
Dr. Greengrass invites all to Ms. Kimi's B-Day Party Sat. at Cor­by,s. Free beer! 
Sensuous Smith, you Massachusetts Mamma, We love your crazy accent and your tunny Boston grammah. 
-.• appy Birthday! The Kattes 
Dear Twiz and Oz, Thanks! But I :;till think more Love, Plip-Piop and Mare 
Fond Father Berltam, How would you like your order? Rare or well done? Our service is 
nun-equalled. Sr. Caroline, Elizabeth & Mary Meg 
To the alAI! Night Order: The following is a prerecorded message: Did you like our recording of "Band on the Run"? Perverted Playhouse Players. PS Sr. Mary has MORE than a sexy voice 
So I said to the girl with the wooden leg, "Peg" 1 said Love, Woody 
ORANGE 
Happy b-day Seen, from your neegbois in 333 Phineas Schweitzer, Mader 
Girls lin honor or Pauls 19th b-day you should all eat an Orange. 
Dear Mary Carol Jockey Happy 21st & keep posting from the Riders 

j 

I 
l 
J 

-. 
... Friday, October 18, 1974
16 the observer 
ND out to improve against Army 
by Hill Dt>laney confront Parseghian .vith a much score this season, a 100-yarder improved team over last year. against Duke. Quarterback Scott "Notre Dame is Notre Dame" Coach Tom Cahill is gone; Homer Gillogly, a converted defensive said a disappointed Army Coach, Smith, who coordinated Pepper halfback has taken over the Tom Cahill after the Irish Rodgers' Wishbone offense for passing duties from Kinglsey Fink, massacred his cadets last year, 62-UCLA, was hired to turn the and has completed 20 of 46 passes 
3. Jim Barclay's field goal early in Cadets record around. In his first this season with only two in­the first quarter gave Army a 3-0 five games as Army's head coach, terceptions. lead. but in the next 45 minutes, the he's managed a 1-4 record against "Army is a sticky football team, Irish amassed 62 points against a teams that have a combined much improved over last year." team too feeblf' to fight back. record of 19-4 thus far. "No one noted Parseghian. "They 
A year has come and gone since has overwhelmed Army this year, executed the wishbone rather well, the last encounter with the Cadets. and their only shortcoming seems in this, their first season with it. This year's game has an added to be a lack of dt>pth at some key They've scored in every game and neaning for the Irish, who are 4-1 areas," said Irish scout John carried Penn State to a point where t.1is st>ason after their narrow Murphy. they may have held on to win, had v' ·tory over the Rice Owls last One of the areas leaving they had more depth." Wl 'k. something to be desired in the "What we have had to do this 
" \II season long, we've been passing game, and as Smith points week is to not let the fact that ma~ .ng the mf.'ntal errors that out, "Our passing game has everyone expects us to demolish have given our opposition the definitely been ineffective this our opponent interfere with our chanc. · to surprise us." said Head year. I'd have to compare our game plan." noted Parseghian. Coach .\ra Parseghian earlier this passing to the whole Watergate "We are always picked to win, and Wl'ek. •·Purdue capitalized on lour mt•ss; Wl' tried to cover it up, but sometimes our players will read mistakes, and they won. I had like Watergate, it's really shown those press clippings and decide hoped we would have improved up that we cannot pass, so we'll that we've already won the game. last wPek against Hice, but we run." That is an attitude that we're helpt>d thl•m with our errors. Sure, Army's wishbone backfield trying to fight."
... we managed a few good drives features three husky runners in Of critical concern to the Irish agains them. but we didn't put senior fullback Willie Thigpen (6-1, coaching staff is whether the of­many points on the board, and 191 l, junior Brad Dodrill (6-1, 193), fense can come up with the big scoring is what it's all about. If we and freshman Markus Hardy (6-1, play in critical conditions, expect to he a good football team at 188). For the season, Thigpen and something the 1974 Irish haven't the t'nd of the season, then we must Dodrill are averaging 4.5 and 4.8 always accomplished. Though the improve on a week-to-week basis." yards per carry respectively, and Irish have a more than two-to-one 
The Black Knights of the Hudson Hardy has returned a kickoff for a advantage in total offense (2124 to 

The Irish Eye 
:=:!:!:!:!::===============:=:=:=:::::::=:=:=:=:=:::=====:=::========::::::======:=:=:=:::===:=:=:::::::=========::::::::::=:=:=:=:::=:=:::=========================================================== Footl:x:ill picks 
Saturday's college football schedule is dotted with got sloppy and lost to Baylor. Texas and Arkansas some characteristically tough and important con­have both been up and down so far this season. tests. Somebody must b mixing up the pills before game 
But, if for a minute you just consider nicknames, time. Whoever has the right jar ought to win nobody'd ever know it. tomorrow. It should be Texas. 
First of all a meeting between a bunch of Buckeyes Arizona at Tt'xas Tech: Arizona is undefeated and a group of Hoosiers doesn't seem like a big deal. although not convincingly so. The Red Raiders After all Buckeyes are just small nuts and what suffered a severe setback losing to Texas A&M last t•xactly is Hoosier? A bigger nut maybe? week. This should be a close one and since it's in 
A match between strong, well-trained Trojans and Lubbock Tech has the edge. Texas Tech by 8. 
Oregon Ducks might be worth watching just to see Oklahoma at Colorado: The Buffaloes haven't done what they'd do. But what about Mountaineers much stampeding this season and they probably and Hurricanes? won't start with the Sooners. Barry Switzer escaped 
A bigger match would undoubtedly be between with his wagon last week in Dallas, but it's still some hard-nosed Army Cadets and a gathering of powerful enough to leave some deep ruts in Boulder. Fighting (and probably drunk) Irishmen. But then Oklahoma by 14. again what would a Cornhusker do against a Michigan State at Illinois The Illini get their fir~t 
.. Jayhawk, a Volunteer (for what nobody seems to Big Ten test tomorrow against the Spartans. MSU knowl against a Crimson Tide, Tar Heels versus a has dropped their last two ball games to Notre Dame Wolfpack, Lobos <chicano wolves) against Cowboys, and Michigan, teams slightly better than Illinois. On Bulldogs against a Green Wave (of what), or Yellow to pof that the Spartans have looked cautious, but not Jackets against Tigers. bad. Illinois will tomorrow. MSU by 7. 
However, Longhorns and Razorbacks, Sooners and Indiana at Ohio State: Indiana's remarkable one­Buffaloes, Gators and Seminoles, Badgers and game winning streak will come to an abrupt halt Wolverines or Cowboys and Tigers might be tomorrow afternoon about eight minutes after the reasonable. In reality most of them won't be. opening kickoff. The Hoosiers will be smart to save 
This week's picks: themselves for Northwestern on Nov. 9. They ought 
Army at Notre Dame: The Irish hopefully will to forfeit their next three ball games beginning with finally put things together and outflank (Pete tomorrow's. Ohio State by 47. Demmerle), outgun (Tom Clements) and outman Nt'braska at Kansas: If Nebraska had beaten <Mike Fanning, Kevin Nosbusch, Jim Stock, Steve Missouri last Saturday Kansas would have beaten the Niehaus) the Cadets. With Wayne Bullock they might Cornhuskers this week. Fortunately or un­do a little outmaneuvering too. ND by 28. fortunately, depending upon who you like, Nebraska 
Navv at Air Force: The Falcons are used to the won't lose two in a row. It will be close however. high altitude at Colorado Springs while the Mid­Nebraska by 6. shipment would rather stay at or below sea level. Miami at West Virginia: Why the Hurricanes are They should be lower than that after this ball game. not ranked in the AP top twenty·is a point to ponder. AF by 7. Their Qnly loss was 3-0 to fourth-ranked Auburn. The 
Florida :1t Florida State: The Seminoles have lost Mountaineers lost to Pittsburgh last Saturday and sixteen games in a row although their last losing can't afford another. West Virginia still has super­effort was 8-7 against Alabama. On the other hand flanker Danny Buggs, but he can't throw the ball too. Florida was upset by Vanderbilt last week. Intra­Miami by 7. state rivalries are always the fiercest, but even Missouri at Oklahoma State: It's Mizzou's turn to though they a rebway from home look for the Gators be bad nnd OSU's turn to be bad. The question is who by 17. will be worse. Due to tremendous inconsistencies 
-. 
.\lahama at Tennessee: The Volunteers are with both teams the outcome is a tossup. Oklahoma myst~>riously bad. Nonetheless they will Battle the State by 4.. Rear Alabama has been lackluster at best, but they Oregon at Southern California: The Ducks ought to hav(' :~ 1!. lost a game. This could have been the upset change their name. It's ridiculous. Their only hope is of thr week especially since the game is in Knoxville, that it rains at SC and everybody knows that it never but the feeling here is 'Barna, by 7. rains in Southern California until Notre Dame gets 
(it·urgia Trch at Auburn: Auburn's defense has there. SC by 28. alia\•: d only 23 points in five games and no doubt the l 1pset of the week: Wisconsin over :vtichigan: The Tiger~ have a Nov. 30 showdown with Alabama on Badgers have been good for upsets this season. At their minds. If they look past the Yellow Jackets the Madison tomorrow they should be again. spotlight will be dimmed. Pepper Rodgers' team can Michiganwas unimpressive against Michigan State be almost anything from unbelievea,bly inept to last Saturday and are probably out to clean up. 
surpr1singly strong. Saturday they'll probably be Wisconsin got their clocks cleaned against Ohio State
.. 
inept again. Auburn by 14. a week ago and shouldn't let it happen again. ,\rk:wsas at Texas: The Longhorns lost a heart­l.ast wf'ek: 9 of 15, 60 percent. Season: 51 of 75, 68 breaker to Oklahoma last Saturday while the Porkers percent. 
·--·-·-,..·/.
;r-• .A~:,·:··:•• 
. ' 
,~1· • 
'~ 

Co-captains Greg Collins (50) and Tom Clements (2) contemplate second half action against Rice. 
990), they have only put a total of starting nods, but Art Best is back 129 points on the board. Tom at full strength, and Tom Parise, Clements will bring his offensive who is a more than adequate team in Saturday against an Army fullback, will see some time this team which has allowed 22 points weekend." per game this season. The of­Pete Demmerle, NO's premier fensive line, will miss the services split end, enters the Army en­of right tackle Steve Neece and counter with 422 yards this season tight end Robin Weber. in 28 receptions. His total now 
The Irish backfield, notorious for exceeds his entire 1973 output, injuries all year, faces similar when he totaled 404 yards on 26 problems against the Cadets. "AI catches. His mate on the receiving Samuel has bruised ribs, Jim corps, Weber, is nursing a sore Weiler is nursing a charley horse, ankle he suffered in the Michigan and Wayne Bullock still has a sore State game, and his condition is shoulder, so we definitely may be questionable. Freshman Ken in for some problems." noted of­MacAfee has been running in fensive backfield coach Tom Weber's position this week, and Pagna. "Weiler, Bullock and will be ready if he is needed. Samuel will probably get the (continued on page 14) 

The same old story 
Army weekend has become an annual occasion for everyone to sit back and watch Notre Dame trample a poor football team. In line with that trend, the Irish should welcome the opportunity to play Army as a chance to relax. This year, the Cadets boast nothing offensively, as usual, and their defense is extremely predictable. 
From all indications, there should be no contest right? Guess again. Notre Dame's schedule doesn't list a single opponent who will roll over and play dead for the big fellows, incluamg Army. Penn State discovered that the West Pointers come to play, no matter what the odds say. The Cadets nearly accomplished a second military coup against Joe Paterno's squad which like Notre Dame , was expected to demolish everyone in a quest for national honors. But desire and emotion have a way of subverting the odds, and no team or group of experts (including Greg Corgan) can safely predict victory on the basis of talent. 
No doubt Notre Dame possesses overwhelming advantages this I week in terms of everything necessary to comprise a great football team. The fact remains that they have yet to fully utilize thse advantages. The defense showed signs last week that they had gelled, particularly in the second half when they prevented a fired up Rice team fromturningNotre Dame stadium into a vale of tears for the second straight homestand. The offense, though they proved Impotent in their attempts to get the ball across the goal line, did turn m an impressive statistical per­formance. Though statistics don't win ball games, they do indicate that with a few breaks, better mental attention, and a bit more dispatch in executing plays. the offense might soon come into its own. 
Few deny that ·this1 had better happen soon. Understandably Notre Dame may get away with more mistakes against service academy teams, but this is no prepartion for the reality that must eventually set in when the Irish face more competnet opponents like Pittsburgh and Southern CaL Waiting for some promised ship to sail into port cost the offense a victory against Purdue. It could just as easily have occUPed againstMichiganState or Rice. Hopefully the players will realize along with th e fans, that no team is going to be intimidated by statistics or odds, or the probability that Notre Dame could catch fire at any time and play the kind of football they are capable of playing. 
Against Army. don't be surprised if the Irish walk into a real contest, Once again the:,. face a traditional rival with nothing to lose and a great deal to gain. The Cadets have proven they can square-off with the most formidable opponents. Notre Dame cannot afford to let overconfiendence in theiradvantagewarp execution of sound fundamental football. Army despite their ueficiencies, '";' : '~intention of playing down to the level of incompetence that everyo•~· · xpects. After all. if both teams were to accept beforehand the sup~:Jseo::. :·1evitable outcome of te game, there would be no point in even bothering to play. 






