On The Inside 
SU shakeup ... page 3 Letters.• page 10 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 54 Friday, November 22, 1974 
Senior death march dies for good 

Last year's traditional senior death march provided the usual fun, but this year's seniors don't even get a funeral. · 
IUSB students run tests 
for drug identification 
A large brown pill arrives in an envelope at the office of Dr. George V. Nazaroff, professor of Chemistry at Indiana University of South Bend. ENclosed with the pill are only two other iden­
Observer

tifying items, a scribbled note saying "believed to be THC" and a serial number from a dollar 
bill. 

I . h 

Nazaroff takes the pill up to the chemistry 
DSlQ t 

laboratory directly above his office. The serial number from the dollar bill is typed on a bulleTin "'::---"7'"--~-----------""1 board outside of the Chemistry department the number on the board outside the chemistry office. One week later, after a com.Piete office. It is Phencyclidine, a livestock chemical analysis has been completed by IUSB tranquilizer fatal for humans when taken with students, the name of the drug is written next to alcohol. 
by Pat Flynn Staff Reporter 

The above is a typical case in the IUSB drug related. "We looked into the legal aspects and identification program. Through this student-obtained a government license to run the drug run program, a complete analysis of any identification program." unknown drug or uncertain drug can be obtained Nazaroff added that this year IUSB received a in one week, free and confidentially. Users of the $5000 grant from the federal government to help service simply send a sample of the drug to the finance their program. . IUSB Chemistry department, indicating what The program is almost exclusively student they think the drug is, and giving an arbitrary work. Nazaroff claimed that faculty members number by which they can identify the depart-only provide supervision and help raise funds," ments analysis. he noted. Third and fourth year chemistry 
Seventy percent of the samples tested through students do the actual testing." the IUSB program last year did not contain the For the routine testing work we pay the drug they were thought to be. According to students involved a small salary from the $5000 Nazaroff, none of the samples thought to be THC government grant, Narzoff continued. "If or Mescaline were found to contain these drugs. students are interested in doing special 
"Very often phencycladine is passed off for research connected with the project, we put that these drugs," he reported. "It can be made to under independent study and give co~e appear very similar in color and texture to the credit." THC or Mescaline. It is hard to discern the "The program serves many functions for us at difference without a full chemical analysis." IUSB." Narzoff asserted. "Besides providing a 
Nazaroff also claimed that drugs believed to community service, it gives the students ex­be amphetamines (uppers) were frequently perience in delicate and interesting lab work." found to be only concentrated capsules of caf-The tests are sufficientlydifficult to require a feine. high degree of interpretation of the theoretical 
"Heroine as yet has not turned up in any of the chemistry learned in the classroom. According samples we have tested," Nazaroff affirmed. to Nararoff, "one student working at IUSB "So far, we have been taking samples from developed a new test for barbituates ." Apart college students and parents of high school from its application, the chemistry involved is in kids." itself very interesting," he maintained. 
The type of person using heroine would Nazaroff also observed that the program probably not come near IUSB, he noted. exposes the students to areas of chemistry of 
Nazaroff emphasized that the service could be interst for further study or career work. used without fear of tracing or reprisal by the "Forensic chemistry, toxiology and phar­police. macology Cthe study of poisons, drugs and the 
"The only numbers we keep are the serial relationship between drugs and the law) are big numbers and the results of the lab analysis," areas of practical chemistry students might stated Nazaroff. "There is no way I can see that never experience if it were not for a program like a law enforcement a,gency could trace a user." this." 
The program has been in operation for about a The tests run on the drug samples fall year. It was originally initiated by chemistry into three stages. There is first a battery of tests students at IUSB interested in providing some to locate the general family of the drug; opiate, type of drug-testing service for the student barbituate, etc. Once this general classification community. has been established, a second group of more 
"Our students had heard of programs like the (continued on page 14) one we now have at other institutions," Nazaroff 
by Norman F. Bower Staff Reporter 

The senior death march, which was killed and then partially resurrected, is again listed among the obituaries. Last night, the decision to stop the event was made by Rick Kanser, owner of Uncle Willie's Fatal Glass of Beer where the "senior funeral" was to have taken place at noon today. 
Kanser, a '73 Notre Dame graduate, based his decision on three matters: the destructiveness of the marches, the fact that the Senior Club also would not be open until later, and , "most importantly, unofficial pressure from the Northeast Neighborhood Council." 
The NNC according to Kanser, "might remonstrate against the renewal of his license if something like a disorderly march originated from his establishment." 
The head of the Northeast Neigh­borhood Council is Dr. Arthur J. Quigley, an associate professor of electrical engineering at Notre Dame. 
Quigly stated that he did not know exactly what a death march is. He further explained that he did not know of any statement to bar owners by his organization regarding this weekend's activities. 
Quigly said the relationship bet­ween students and neighborhood residents is "getting better". He used the bars' change from plastic cups to glasses as an example of im­provement, because litter has been significantly decreased. 
Last Monday, Kanser and the owners 
of the Corby's and Nickie's met and decided not to host the death march because of the cost of damages last year and because of the Senior Club was not able to cooperate with the effort for a successful march. 
Two days later, at a meeting bet­
ween the senior class officers and 
Kanser, a "senior funeral" atUncle 
Willies's was devised so that the calss 
members would havesome activity 
for Friday. An ad appeared in 
Thursday's Observer describing these 
plans. 
Yesterday, a Nickie's bartender 
reported that Nickie's would be open 
at 11 a.m. on Friday for the death 
marchers. Later that report was 
refuted by the owner who said he 
made no such arrangements. 
Last night Kanser decided not to 
open Uncle Willie's opening until 5 


Rick Kanser 

p.m., the time at which all area bars 
have decided to open. 
Commenting on this most recent outcome, Senior Class President Greg Eriksen said he was "shocked and upset," when he found out about the situation -at 10 p.m. last night. "I am disappointed because all efforts to· keep the senior death march alive have failed," he said. 
Realizing the finality of the arrangement, Eriksen explained "Because outside forces stopped it, it was out of my hands." 
. The Senior Club's 4:30p.m. opening time was not finally stet untH Thur­sday afternoon. Earlier in the week the student affairs staff met with club management to discuss regular operating hours. At that meeting no definite time was established for this Friday due to concern about the death march. 
According to Dr. Robert 
Ackerman of Student Affairs the decision for a late opening 'was unrelated to the attitude of the othre local bars against the death march. 
Ackerman explained that the group felt the club "should not be allowed to be the focal point of the march because the efforts of the volunteer renovators might be lost through carelessness and vandalism." Ac~~rm.an reff~red to the 4:30 opening as an mterestmg test of whether or not. -. the students will help mamtam the club or destroy it." 
William "Butch" Smith, the club manager said, "the bar will not open until 4:30p.m., but at that time all seniors with club .cards will be ad­mitted." 
Fr. Hesburgh was the guest of honor at a reception yesterday sponsored by Yale University Press. The reception honored Hesburgh and his new book The Human Imperative. 
the observer , Friday, November 22, 1974 


warld briefs 
DETROIT UPI -General Motors Corp. said Thursday it will idle 30,000 workers at nine afssembly plants in December, pushing auto industry joblessness in the weeks before Christmas to more than 150,000 workers. 
PHOENIX. Ariz. UPI -Negotiators expressed cautious op­timism Thursday about progress in talks aimed at ending a four­day, nationwide strike of Greyhound bus employees. 
LONDON UPI-Acting President Glafkos Clerides of Cyprus said Thursday Archbishop Makarios intends to return home during the first week of DEecember to re-assume the presidency of the !\1editerranean island. 
ALEXANDRIA BAY, N.Y. UPI-A Canadian ore carriPr sank in the St. Lawrence Seaway Thursday after running aground east of Lake Ontario. A "small amount" of oil began leaking from the wreckage. 
WASHINGTON UPI -The House Thursday gave final congressional approval to a $11.8 billion mass transit aid bill which President Ford endorsed. 
The six-year aid bill, passed by the Senate Tuesday, now goes to Ford. who said in a telegram to House leaders that he would sign it. 

an campus l:aday 
friday, november 22, 1974 . 12-1 pm . skating, staff, faculty and students, ice rink. 
12:15 pm -lecture,"new urban gaming simulation" by I.e. coppard, 
faculty lounge.4 pm . seminar, "brazilian economic boom since 1968" by w. baer, 
u. 
of Ill., 120 hayes-healy. 4:30pm. reilly lecture series, "a model for the mechanism of in­sect pheromone perception" by dr. o. I. chapman, 123 nsh. 5 pm . vespers, evensong, log chapel. 5 pm . mass and dinner, bulla shed. 7, 9 & 11 am. coffeehouse,9-d. james; 10-m jehle; 11-g coleman; 12­

a. 
coffin, j. gresser, t. stella, suguar cookies, smc. 9 pm. dance, roaring 20's, guys-$1, gals-$0.50, couples-$1.25,stepan. 10 pm . jazz, at he nazz, basement of Iafortune. 


saturday, november 23, 1974 11 am . multimedia show, "notre dame in review", eng. aud. 1; :30 Sm-football, notre dame v. air force, stadium. 8:30pm . concert, dooble bros., $7, $6,50, $6, ace. 9-1 am -junior class formal, flight, 4 flags motor inn, niles. 
sunday, november 24, 1974 4:30pm -vespers, evensong, lady chapel. 6, 8:15, 10:30 pm -·movie, scrooQe, $1, caroll hall 7:30pm -film, 'ma nult chez maud' (my night at maudes), archie aud. 
7:30 pm b-ball exhibition, nd intersquad charity game $0.50 & $0.25, ace. 8:15pm. concert, university chorus, sacred heart church. 
7: 30 pm --meeting, mecha, basement of Iafortune 
daily 10-4:45 pm. art exhibits, bill kremer, one man show of ceramics, gallery 1; minor white, caputures american spirit, gallery 2; masterpeices from kress study coli. gallery 3, 20th cent. art, west gallery. 1-4 pm -art, edvins strautmanis exhibit ofpaintings, isis gallery. 12-5 pm-art, indiana fire ceramics sow, moreau galery. 12-9 pm art, don crouch etchings from "the american west series", hammes gallery. 12-9 pm -art, todd hoover, screen and silver prints, little theater gallery. 




THE WINERY 
2426 LINCOLNWAY WEST-MISHAWAKA, INDIANA TELEPHONE 259·9046 
All the Finest European Cheeses Gift Boxes of Cheeses & Fancy Foods Oriental Cooking Ingredients 
10 1% Cheese & Fancy Food Discount to Faculty & Studer.ts French Bread & Croissants New York Cheesecake Greek Olives Teas 

Ilea and rice dinner planned for ND and South Bend COllllllunity 
by Kevin Dickerson Staff Reporter 
"It's not so much the money as making us all aware of people's situation all over the world around us as compared to ours here," said Cecilia Prinster, a member of the World Coalition of Hunger at Notre Dame. 
Under the direction of Fr. Don 
McNeill, the Notre Dame Coalition 
will be sponsoring a Tea and Rice 
Dinner to take the place of regular 
cafeteria service on Tuesday, 
November 26. During supper that 
day, the Notre Dame community-­
students, faculty, administration 
and friends from South Bend--plan 
to share a meal. 
This is the first of a year's ac­tivities to allow the Notre Dame community a small taste of what 
SMC to publish 
student gov't newsletter Tues. 
by Mike Hellinghausen Staff Reporter 
The Student Government Newsletter will appear on St. Mary's campus, Tuesday, Nov. 26. To be published every other month until summer, the newsletter will keep St. Mary's students informed about their own student govern­ment. according to newsletter editor Judy Peterson. 
Peterson. who is staffing the newsletter by herself for the present. stated, "it will let the students know what is going on in their government." It will' include class and hall news and minutes from student government meetings. 
Also included will be write-ups ('oncerning government written by the St. Marv's commissioners. The newsletter will also contain opinions and comments of in­dividual students. The main goal. according to Peterson, is for the newsletter to be a forum for St. 1\larv's students. 
nie Student Government ~pwsletter is to be formal enough to stimulate attention and interest. It will be printed by Osthimer Printing. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college seml!!lter except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor S9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box· Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paia, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 


NOW SHOWING 
EIIANUEL L1IUU' ~ AMICHAEL KLINGEl -o1 
APETER HUNT Film 

ROGER SUSANNAH 
MOORE YORK GOLD 
TECHNICGUII0 An&LUDAIITlm -­
~ 

Phone 288-8488 for times & directions CLOSE FREE PARKING 
millions feel daily and possibly to 
save some oney that can be sent to 
the suffering. 

Students have been invited to 
give up their regular meal in the 
dining halls for a bowl of rice and a 
cup of tea. To carry out this plan, 
students were asked to pledge to 
forego the regular meal served 
that evening and to give their 
support by signing a pledge slip 
that was distributed in the dining 
halls, the campus ministry office 
and in the Observe •. 

Mike Davis, Community Ser­vices Commissioner, noted that the anticipated goal was ap­proximately 3000 students to respond to the rice and tea meal option. To date, 2150 slips have been received by the food services department. Ed Price, Food Services Director, stated that for each person who ate the rice and tea meal instead of the regular menu, 75 cents would be added to the funds that will be 
distributed to the Third World Communities in need of funds for food. Price commented he was "glad to see students concerned and taking such a creative effort in alleviating a world-wide problem." 
He criticized, however, the method of using leftover money 1rom those not eating in the 
regular cafeteria lines. He mentioned that "room and board fees have been kept low because of the savings made by the food services department." 
Price commented that if this money is sent to some other source, then there is a chance that these same low, economical prices cannot be offered again. 
Price stated that the rice and tea would be served in a symbolic way. 
"There will only be one serving of rice allowed, and tea will be served without sugar," he said. 
Price noted that approximately 200 South Bend friends will attend the meal to be held in the North Dining Hall. He also said that those students wishing to eat the regular menu must eat in the South Dining Hall. All other students who have registered for the rice and tea meal must eat in the North Diniflg Hall. 
Community Services Com­missioner Mike Davis said that some similar program will be held next semester also. 

T0111 f\'( l\'.1hnn f"•i'llt 1.11 .·•• , •• ,,. 
-.. 




,~:-J. 
11~· •• 
"i:t--';J>.. 
'1!1' 
Jim Tucker Agent 
J I'll y fldiQ!'I 1\(lt'llf 
Phd Tr•,lh 
AUf'llt 
,\j ~.1//.lfl(l 
1\qo•llf 
'Tearafter ,·car~ Iscmcstcr·after semester~ the College :\'laster from Fidelity 
llnion Lift' has hccn the most accepted. most 
popular Jllan on campuses all mci"Amcrka. 
Find out wh~. 
Call the Fidelity Union College Master .Field Associate 
m your area: 
1 005 E. LaSalle South Bend. Ind. Phone 287-2327 
.~:t 
·~ 
( ( )llc'2_cMl1sLcr
... 


-~-----------------------~----------------------------------~ 
Friday, November 22, 1974 the observer 
3 

Schickel replaces Guiltinan 
...




New social commissioner named 
didn't contact people who signed Burke, in announcing Schickel's • by Matt Yokom up on activities night for the social appointment indicated Schickel, Staff Reporter commission." Guiltinan, however, who is vice-president of Sorin Hall, 
disagreed; "We contacted about was recommended by Director of 
Student Union Director, Pat 80 percent of the people who Student Activities, Fr. David Burke yesterday announced that signed," he said. Schlaver. Burke also stated Norbert Schickel will be the new "Schickel has run a few successful 
Both Burke and Guiltinan agreed 
head of the Student Union Social things on his own."
tha situation came to a headCommission. This appointment because the Social Commissionfollows the dismissal of Richard Positive valuewas not able to locate a hall inGuiltinan as Social Commission Michigan for an 'armory type'
chairman last Tuesday. Schickel stated he would like to
party. Both agreed that cross
Burke stated, "I felt a change of see the Social Commission in­
words were exchanged during
leadership was needed." He cited volved in activities such as the
which Guiltinan was fired.
"the inability of the social com­square dance he has organized for 
Guiltinan indicated he felt the
mission to come up with concrete Sorin Hall. The dance will take
main problem was "a definite lack 
programs" as the main reason for place in Stepan Center on Dec. 6.
of communication." "I accepted
Guiltinan 's dismissal. Schickel said he will approach
too many problems but I didn't get 
Burke also pointed to the "poor the job with the point of view that
too much constructive criticism," 
organization of social commission "the activities that we have should 
Guiltinan stated.
events. "For example, even have a positive value, something
Guiltinan admitted to "some
though Homecoming was a success besides the drinking aspect.
. failure" but claimed "Most of the 
it wasn't very well organized. We Mainly, fun."
planning was good; the only ex­
had twelve buses but only nine of "Although we have the alcohol
ception being the homecoming."
them worked. No one checked rule and while we should try to
Guiltinan said "We were trying to areas," Schickel said.
them." he explained. change it, we shouldn't sit on our effectively, we will contact the
get things on campus and it's Schickel is considering an ice­
duffs and not do anything~" hall."
Lack of communication pretty tough to get something that skating party on St. Mary's Lake
Schickel noted. "We should have more ac­
will have a wide appeal." 
with bonfires as an activity "where tivities" Schickel observed. ,TheBurke also stated the Social The former Social Commission Schickel also indicated he everyone could get together." "Iexcuse that two things on the sameCommission "didn't use all head stated, "It's a real "would like to involve St. Mary's in would like to have a large variety night conflict is not valid. Weavailable resources." Burke frustrating job. Whoever he gets, I more of the activities." He also of people and ideas to work with,"should provide a wider variety of
pointed out that "the commission hope can do better." stated, "If we have an idea which he concluded.
things to do on week-ends in many 
Report urges major changes 
Council advises revisionof pass-fail system 
Student Union Director Pat Burke 
the Social Commissioncan't put on 
by Theresa Stewart Staff Reporter  Pass-No-Credit basis. Secondly, the council asserted that appropriate courses in fine  above. Almost three-fourths of the Engineering students (72 per cent l received grades of B-or  
The Arts and Letters  Student  arts, architecture and other areas,  above, while a full 75 per cent of  
Advisory Council, in a recent survey of the Pass-Fail grading option at ND and other univer­sities, recommended a liberalizing of the Pass-Fail system at ND. Commenting on this report. which will be presented at an upcoming council meeting, Asst. Dean Hobert J. Waddick said, "To ex­tend the Pass-Fail option would be to soften the grading system in these days of grade inflation." Heported in the Nov. 19 issue of the Observer. "the national  difficult to evaluate, be made obligatory Pass-No-Credit cour­ses. The third recommendation stated that Course Performance Reports be made available to students for use in appropriate courses designated by the professor. Lastly, the report suggested that course 'drops' be allowed until the last class day without penalty and without record. In the roport, the Council sup- Science students fell into this category. The report adds, "The G.P.A. distribution of students choosing to take courses on a Pass-Fail basis bulges around the 3.000-3.399 range. Therefore, the fact that many grades in Pass-Fail courses are in the B range is not surprising­-students seem to be earning grades only slightly below the average grade in their G.P.A." The report pointed out that this difference becomes even less  
problem of undergraduate grade inflation has become evident at ND  ported these four recom­mendations in the light of ND's  significant when one considers that most students would tend to use the  
where the median grade point average has risen almost one half point in the last ten years."  experience with the Pass-Fail option. Citing the Registrar's "Statistical Summary of Pass-Fail Option Selection," the Student  option with courses in which they expect to receive a grade below their present gradepoint average." When asked about theArts and  
Timt• magazine <Nov.  11 ,  1974 )  Advisory  Council  suggested  that  Letters College Council's response  
recently  conducted  a  survey  in  the much-feared wholesale breach  to  these proposed changes, Wad­ 
which  they  noted  that  the  in- of standards failed to materialize.  dick answered, "I really can't tell  
creasing use of the  Pass-Fail  what they'll do, although I think it  
option has reduced the percentage  The  Registrar's  "Statistical  is most unlikely that the proposal  
of lower grades and raised average grade points.  Summary" showed that the difference between the average  to allow courses to be dropped up until the last day will clear the  
The Student Advisory Report, charging that "there is no con­· bl fce1va e argument or per­petuatl.ng the 'pressure cooker' atmosphere that traditional  Pass-Fail grade of all students taking all courses was 2.598 while the University over-all average G.P.A. is 3.1. Breaking this down, the Summary states that 8 per cent  Council." "I believe the faculty will defeat the idea of Course Performance Reports, because of the extra burden of work this evaluative  
grading procedures have tended to  of Arts and Letters students would  supplement  a  student's  
provide," prescribed four changes in ND's Pass-Fail program.The present system allows  have recieved the grade of A in their Pass-Fail course and and · Impressive 66 per cent would have  grades would entail," he con­tinued.Waddick added that he felt "the  
juniors and elective  seniors  to  take  one  received a B-or better. In Business Administration,  5  Pass-Fail program at Notre Dame is a bomb, due to improper han­ 
semester on a Pass-Fail basis. The  per cent of the students received  dling. If it is going to be continued,  
Arts and Letters  College  Student  the grade of A in their Pass-Fail  the  format should stay the same.  

Advisory Council suggested first ,.cou 11r.,cletnltIB!!-~o•r•I11f 11 oo.s re
r•s•e•spi!la~n~d•64pp11e 1 11e11n11uliplllia11nyiimitlo111,11t11h1etiiN1o1t,re
w11e11111
1111

that all courses be made available to students to substitute no-credit for a grade of F on the option of 

I RESERVATIONS: 284-4176 (Business Hours)
1--­
283-7054 (Show Nights)

Students collect 
Student-Faculty

for Heart Fund 
ND"'8MC Staff $1.50 Jim Meehan, Campus Heart 
SMC 


THEATRE
Fund Chairman, announced yesterday that student volunteers 
1974-75 

will again be collecting for the 
Our Ninth Season Heart Fund Saturday before the Notre Dame-Air Force football game. 

HUES CORPORATION 
NOVEMBER 22-24 
Fri. and Sun. at 7:30 & 10:00: $5.50. Sat. at 7:30 &10:00: $7.50. TICKETS AT THE BOX OFFICE OR BY MAIL ORDER For reservations, information or group rates, call (219) 462-0563 


@~!~:~..!H.~~!,RE 
THE ROMA 
PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD 
Your Host Frank Anastasio 
'A PIZZA YOUCANNOT REFUSE' 
LIVE BAN OS 0 N WEE KEN OS 
Call 234-3258 For Delivery 
219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtown 
At North End Of River Bend Plaza 
************************************
* • 
~ HOPS 'N' SPIRITS~
* ~
* •! 812 E. Lasalle St. ~ i
* 
~phone 287-2581 ,:::; \ t ~ 

~ r-:1 ~ 
Dame transcripts won't mean a thing," he noted. 
Michael Murphy, president of the Arts and Letters Student Ad­visory Council, suggested that "we ought to remember that grades merely reflect the student's academic progress and do not constitute the goals for which we strive through education." 
Murphy argued, "the grade game has become a race in which the student competes for honors which may be bestowed. Perhaps the most disconcerting feature of the grade inflation is that it reflects the ever-increasing number of people who have caught onto the nature of the game and adjusted accordingly." 


A premiere production of this comedy-intrigue in the 
1

"We really need student sup­
absurd manner bY NO graduate Christopher Ceraso. 
i Beer Wne ~sorted Liquors . ·~ .. i
port," Meehan stated, noting that the fund drive is entirely student-Dec. 6, 7, 12, 13, 14 at 8:00P.M. run. "Heart disease is the number Washington Hall (Notre Dame) 
oqe cause of death in this country." ••••••••••••••••••••••••••.. 
a*i~n.~~~*i;>;.~~'!;~y~.r;~~lt·!)*j·: 
Friday, November 22, 1974

the observer 
Irish Studies programs detailed 
The School is comprised of U.S. Our students normally take a are 5 cents per ride. spent touring France or Spain. college students, ranging in workload of 4-5 courses." All Scott noted that students are 
by \ irginia McGowan 
Staff Reporter Students are also provided with
number from a minimum of 29 to a credits are transferrable to Notre allowed to live in apartments if
Meeting with St. Mary's faculty 
opportunities to visit Dublin's
maximum of 40. Spring semester Dame and St. Mary's. they wish. There are no dress
and students yesterday in 
Abbey T~eater, poetry readingswill begin January 29 and end May Spring semster courses are: regulations.
Stapleton Lounge, Dean Michael and .evemng of traditional Irish'l3. James Joyce and Irish Fiction;
Scott detailed the programs of­Included in the school fees is mUSIC.
"Classes are held from Monday Irish Fiction after Joyce; The Irish 
fered by the School of Irish Studies, $100, used for recreational ac­
through Thursday only," Scott Dramatic Movement; English 351:
located 2 miles south of Dublin, tivities, such as one week-long trip Fees per semester include $1425 Ireland. stated. Classes are 90 minutes, Readings and Research; In­each semester, and a short field for tuition and $500 for room and 
each session divided into a 45 termediate Irish; 1Celtic and Early
Open to Notre Dame and St. trip up the valley around Dublin. board. The application deadline 
minute lecture followed by a break Christian Ireland; Ireland 1099­
1\lary's upperclassmen, general for the 1975 spring semester is 
"We deliberately encourage
rPquiremPnts for admission in­and a 45 minute discussion group. 1970; History 351: Readings and December 1, 1974. Students will be 
Each course requires 2 papers Research; and Comparative students to see the country on 
notified. with 2-4 weeks.
dude a B average of above, and 
each semester, a midterm. and a Government and Plitics. weekends." Scott staed, "Ireland
dt>pa rtmPntal approval. English final exam. All classes are held in the School is one of the few countries where Interested Notre Dame studentsmajors are preferred, although "There are 15 to 20 students in of Irish Studies. hitchhiking is safe, even for the are asked to contact Donaldhistory and political science Sniegowski, Director of Un­each elass on the average." Scott Scott stressed the cultural and girls."
majors are also accepted. 
said. "Every semester we have a social aspects of the year abroad. dergraduate Studies in English for ·"The school is geared entirely to number of current Irish writers "Students live with private If not touring the Irish coun­further information. St. Mary's
I ht> Anwrican student," Scott 
come in and read their works, or families as a member of the tryside, Scott noted that most students are advised to refer tostrcsst>d. "Because we limit our young Irish social life is "centered
people from the North will come in family. The school pays the family Gail Mandell, Assistant to thenuml){'rS. Wl' have the very best of in the pubs." Longer vacations, Vice-President for Academicand talk about their situatior:·." to provide bed, breakfast, and an
an :\nwrican student cross­
"We are restricted entirely to evening meal. Each home must be such as Christmas, are commonly Affairs.
,;pction. Our entire faculty derives 
------------------------~
Irish studies," he continued. "The on certain bus routes which pass!rom the llniversity College Dublin 
(U("J))." 

AFTER THE GANE. VISIT INDIANA'S LARGEST RESTALRANT
Pres. Ford arrives in South Korea 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT
and pledges Alnerican support 
TI-E TUES,\1\ft:D,FRI,SAT SUN 
SEOUL UPI -President Ford ancient imperial capital. "Nothing binds nations closer arrived in the South Korean capital "Sayonara. President Ford," than to have fought side-by-side for said a large banner at the Osaka the same cause. Two times we 


WOODEN KEG
of Seoul Friday in an emphatic Airport. Ford waved both hands at have stood together, here and ingesture of continuing United States 
1609 South Main 289-4824
the crowd as he trotted up the Vietnam. to preserve the peace
support for an ally whose soldiers battled side-by-side with American 
ramp to his aircraft. and stability of Asia and the world. fighting men in two wars. 
Huge pictures of Ford and the We can never forget this. Korea1t president were mounted at "Though we have been together 
SHE WILL

About 1.400 persons, headed by Korean President Park Chung 
Seoul's . Kimpo International with you in war, America's deepest 
TEACHERS 
TEACH YOU
Airport. and downtown streets of hope is for a world of peace. Let us the city were bridged with arches now join to preserve peace and llee, were on hand to welcome 
FOR ALL
Ford when he arrived on the 
carrying signs of welcome. prevent the recurrence of
presidential jetliner Air Force One 
ARTHUR THE
from Osaka for a 23-hour visit here Elongated 50-foot American and hostilities. That is our continuing 
Korean flags hung from many of commitment, which I todayafter a five-day stay in Japan. 
MURRAY NEW The President was in high spirits 
the city's tall buildings. reaffirm." 
'HICAGO TRAINED
"I am here to reaffirm ourafter a send-off from Osaka by 
"TOUCH 

some 2,000 flag-waving well­friendship and give it new meaning Watergate tapes 
12 YEARS
and life," Ford said in a statement 
DANCES

wishers following a day of sight­seeing nearby in Kyoto, Japan's give new info
prepared for his arrival. 
Fran DeMarko says
WASl!INGTON UP! -President Hichard 1\1. Nixon agreed he could be impeached if the failing 
Grace gives gilt of $200 
DANCE LESSONS FOR STLOENTS 
Watergate coverup were not 
HAVE BECOME SO POPULAR
handled "adroitly." according to a tape played Thursday at the 
on its fifth anniversary 
WE HAVE NOW BEEN INVITED
by Lonnie Luna Watergate conspiracy trial.
basement will be highlighted by a 
TO TEACH
Staff Reporter Prosecutors played the last four
cake topped with a six-foot replica 
of 28 presidential tapes presented
Grace Hall will commemorate of the hall. The basement will be 


FACULTY
at the trial of five former Nixon
its fifth anniversary today with a decorated in appropriate gaiety. 
aides. None of the four had ever
contribution to the Hunger Relief Grace is offering prizes for the 

TOO!
been made public before.
Program and birthday festivities. "weirdest" gift presented to the 
"I think it's entirely conceivable 
Grace is presenting a gift of $200 hall. There will also be dancing, 
that if former presidential
to AI Sondej in front of the North music and refreshments. Cakt' 
so
onm ­
Dinging Hall at 11:15 a.m. The cutting time is scheduled for 11 (continued on page 14) 100 

STUDENT LESSON
gift is to aid Sondej's collection for p.m. 
inthe Hunger Relief Program and 
CLASS 
IS


will be presented by Grace Hall 

\ 
President Tom Porter. 

RHUMBA 
"We're hoping that many people in the community will help us to 

MON EVE.. NOV 25 
celebratE! this memorable occasion, and we also hope that the gift to the 
$2 

-1 IJ 
!Iunger Helief Program will 
EA LESSON 
NC>TRE DAME 
highlight this occasion," Porter said. LA F 0 RTUNE BALL R 0 0 M "I~' honor of the anniversary, 
Walk In Alone. Group. Date
<;race thought it would be ap­propriate to offer something to the 
BE(:JNNEHS 7-K I!';TEH-ADVANCED K-!1 
community and wedecideca gift to CIL\M;E PAHTNEHS ALL EVENINGS AI Sondej would best express our concern," said Steve Goett, AND 
community services commissioner 


FACULTV LESSON 
for <I race. Grace Hall achieved completion is also late in the fall semester of 1969 

RHUMBA
when the first residents moved in. The birthday to begin at 9 p.m. in 
TUES EVE NOV 26 
the Grace basement 

I.AFOH'flTNE RAI.LROOM
The birthday celebration to 
' WALK IN ALONE..GROllP..COUPLE
begin at 9 p.m. in the Grace 
LESSON I BEGINNERS 7::10 ·•K:30•.THRU !1:30 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

FOR FUN •
Erratum HOB BY 
EXERCISE • RELAXATION 
The deadline for submitting 
CULTURAL DEVELOPMENT 
names of candidates for honorary degrees is December 4 and not December 14, as reported in TAKE ADVANTAGE yesterday's Observer. Actually, OF 
THIS WONDERFULCHANCE 
nothing at all happens on Dec. 14. 
~

... . -. . . ... . . . . .. . . . .. .. -...... . TO REALLY L.E A R N T 0 DANCE I 

-----------~--------------------------------------------------~ 
Co1n1nittee ~ne~nbers selected to nominate Arts & Letters dean 
by Andy Praschak Staff Reporter 

Members of a committee formed to nominate a dean for the College of Arts and Letters have been selected by the College Council, announced Dean Isabel Charles, Assistant Dean of the College and chairman of the newly formed committee. 
Six members were chosen from names nominated at the last College Council meeting on November sixth. The council is comprised of the deans of the different colleges, chairmen of all departments and an equal number of elected faculty members. 
The committee has met once thus far and has not yet established the procedure by which the new dean will be selected. "We do know that we will be looking outside the university as well as within for the best qualified can­didates, "explained Charles. 
The initial meetings will decide mostly procedural matters, ac­
cording to Charles. The next meeting is scheduled for November 26 and meetings will then be held as often as need be, she continued. "We will probably require a number of meetings in the beginning," said Charles. 
"I'm sure every member of the committee has his own idea of what qualifications the candidates should meet," said Charles. However, she pointed out the need for the committee to act as a unit. 
"We will have several meetings to discuss the qualifications for candidates and then a concensus will decide the prerequisites the candidates must have," she stated. 
Besides Charles, members in­clude Professor David Burrell of the Theology department, Professor l<'itzsimons of the History department, Professor Ronald Weber, Director of the American Studies Program and Professor Thomas Werge, Associate Professor of English. 
The one student representative on the committee is Mike Wahoske, a senior enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Charles commented that she does not expect the committee to work under a strict deadline for naming the candidate. "However, I feel that we should have a name by March," she said. 
Dean Isabel Charles 
Sen. Mondale out of running for '76 presidential no1nination 
Bv Mike Einsilber WASIIINGTON UPI 
Sen. Walter F. Mondale, D­
Minn., has decided not to run for 
the 1976 Democratic presidential 
nomination, congressional sources 
said Thursday. 
Mondale's decision made him 
the second Democrat in recent 
months to drop out of the running. 
At least three other Democrats 
were expected to announce their 
intentions in the next six to eight 
weeks. 
Mondale, 45, was expected to make his formal announcement at a hastily-called news conference. He had been considered widely as a possible candidate and had even appointed a committee to study his chances and raise funds. 
Mondale said only several weeks ago that he was 99 per cent sure of making the race. 
A source close to Mondale said the senator had said that trying for the nomination was was "too much of a hassle" and he wanted to concentrate on his Senate duties. 
It also was understood that Mondale was plagued by dif­ficulties in raising campaign finances and had failed to move up in presidential recognition polls. 
Mondale had been expected to get his strongest support from liberal Democrats, possibly in­cluding many of the "New Politics" faction that supported Sen. GeorgeS. McGovern, D-S.D., in his 1972 presidential campaign. 
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D­Mass., who was regarded as the strongest contender for the Democratic nomination in 1976, withdrew more than a month ago. 
Mondale's departure left no nationally known Democrat as the likely favorite of party liberals. However, Rep. Morris Udall, D­Aroz., and possibly some of the Democratic governors may inherit that backing. 
The natural champion of the party's "old liberals" would be Sen. Henry F. Jackson, D-Wash., who has had a presidential cam­paign "planning committee" for some time. 
Jackson increased his activity Thursday by announcing the ap­pointment of Robert Keefe, executive director of the Democractic National Committee, as his political director. 
Jackson was expected to an­nounce formally before mid­January. Others expected to announce soon were Georgia's retiring Gov. Jimmy Carter and Udall. Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama and Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, phrey's seat at the end of 1964, D-Tex., may also make formal when Humphrey became vice declarations early in 1975. president, and won full terms in 
Mondale is Minnesota's senior 1966 and 1972. senator and a former Minnesota Mondale, born in Ceylon, Minn., attorney general. He was ap­and now a resident of Minneapolis, pointed to fill Hubert H. Hum-is married and has three children. 

ENTERTAINMENT NIGHTLY 
(Except Tuesday) 
10f\\g'f\" 

"THE FAITH" 




Tht Wkit~ Htu,.u 

"The House of Rock" \1\A:DS.--DRINK & DR0\1\N TH URS --PITCHER BEER NITE 
Just 8 mi. north of the state line. Take U.S. 31 north to Niles, then north on highway 51 
Friday, November 22, 1974 the observer 
5 

Califor1tia 
Originals 
The Original Gold Rush: Carole Gold went skinny dipping in 1848. A prospector spotted her, and hollered out "Gold. There's Gold in the river." Carole thought he was telling her that it was cold in the river. She jumped to shore, and threw some yellow rocks at him. The prospector had them as· sayed, and ...you guessed it, they were "idiot's gold" (which is worth even less than "fool 5 gold"). The prospector died penniless, while Carole went on to the commercial below. 
Burgie Beer: Burgie is original California Beer. Golden. Light. Easy. Brewed with a true Western taste for over IOOyears. And, as itsays on our label, "12 fluid ounces:· (Sure, other beers may say that, but do they really mean it?) Try some Burgie beer. No other product can make that statement. 
Burgie 
Original California Beer 
· ·A light golden beer · · .. ·.. brewed with a true Western taste. Tbe great, light California beer~ 
....
~""'-·'· .. ·.· 
•· .. 'j.M,:;~::< 12 Fluid Ounces, .~ .' :lillRf•IE h~\~;Nii CO.. BRE\VIo"IJ AT SAN FAAJiu:JSCo 



~........................~----~--~----------------------------------------~---------------------------------~ ---~~~ 
6 the observer Friday, November 22, 1974 
-~ ~ --·-=-------~--_____;--'--------'---­
Letters Ta A Lanely Ciad 
words for a ritual of inadequacy 
rev•rend rabert rjriffin 
.Jim just stopped by to tell me the tragic the menaces that go bump in the night. There is a grace by which we share in the from that we were kidded about by our news: two days ago, the doctors discovered Often we are more than a little afraid of the life of God. There is another kind of grace friends. Then, one day, we heard the words: that his father is suffering, at the age of authority figure, stern with the threat of by which we share, from their examples and there would be no more homecomings, and fortv-five. from an advanced form of can­punishment, whose decisions seem to be the the effects of their love, in the lives of our we wept to have our childhood back, as a cer.-The disease is already in a terminal chief law of the home. But his arms are parents, they taught us what it means to monk might weep who has lost his faith. stage. affecting the sick man's brain and more protective than the mountains trust, and to be dependent on graciousness, Oh, Jim, your father is a dying man, and I nwmory, Death is not very far off. Jim is defending a city, and his words of love are and to rely on the fulfillment of promises. am incoherent with remembering, because on his way home to be his mother's strength, like the settling of doves into the places at Infants begin life in utter dependency in a of your words today, the loss of a father who and to make the goodbyes appropriate to his peace. climate of caring that is relentless in its died nearly thrity years ago; and I am falhE:'r's condition. I hugged him, gave him I have never grown old enough to attention. Weare such stuff as faiths are trying to say what I feel about the death of H priest's blessing. and wept at the sight of disbelieve in my father as a godlike man, made of, and our little life is rounded with a fathers. Fathers become immortal in the his !E:'ars. The words and gestures seemed though he did not win all the battles, and love that is our first experience of the sons and daughters who love them, as your !'o limited. There are no rituals adequate may mdeed have lost a great many im­concern of heaven. father is immortal in you, and you will be for l'omforting those who have had sad news portant ones, or he would still be alive immortal in your children. I know this, colh'erning the death of fathers. today. If he had lived long enough, he In the death of our parents, there can be a because part of it, I have lived. Our creeds 
lkcentlv. I heard what an old nun had to might, in the frailty of age, have become crisis of faith as though we were mourning tell us of an eternal father, eternally .;a~· about-death. "Really," she said, "It's childlike in his dependency on me, as an­the death of gods. There is a loneliness we begetting. I can understand a little of the ·ust the pause that refreshes." I love the cient parents do become dependent on their never felt before, a sense of sadness, loss mystery of this, because there is a growth of 1\'isdom of aging nuns, but sometimes it children. My father died young, so I was and helplessness in having to fend for awareness in me, like a second birth, of all vannot be appropriately shared with spared the poignancy of protecting him ourselves in a world whose winds are not the things my father ever believed, or said, 
. hildren whose fathers are dying young; not or did. I am more like him now that I was .1t lE:'ast until their mortal suffering is ended, when we lived, sometimes as strangers, in 11 hE:'n it is finally understood that it is the same house. disease. not death, that is the enemy. I began the afternoon, today, with a visit
if we could only
!\lost of us in our lifetimes are called to the from Jim, bringing his sad news. The af­('Xperiences of our father's loss. In talking ternoon ended with a call from the wife of to .Jim. I thought to myself: he is feeling an another friend named Jim, and she told me ancient kind of grief familiar to all of a baby, to be born in February. "Jim said

look beyond
mankind, yet no one can feelhispain exactly it's going to be a son," she said. "He never as he feels it. His tears are personal, though fathers anything but male children." they express a sorrow that all of us have Sons are born; fathers are taken away. 
known. or will know, and the sense though Day after day, the news comes in of births­

the dying
they express a sorrow that all of us have to-be and deaths-to-come, and there is known. or will know, and the sense of loss of rejoicing and mourning in many cities. a kind that we will someday pass on to our from the ways in which old folks become as tempered to the shora lamb. "Really," said the old nun, speaking of children. if we have any. helpless as children. So godlike was my As urchins, we awaited our parents' death. "It's just the pause that refreshes." 
Of all the strength from all the relation­father to me that it is more important to me homecoming. Dad would put up a swing, or It is this kind of confidence that makes all of ships we know on earth, the strength of our now to be his son than it ever was in infancy. buy ice cream, or give us a ride to the zoo. us children trusting the Father, whose fathers is most godlike. Mothers have their I need to see him sometimes, to speak with After a while, we thought we had outgrown urchins we are, to be God-like in his talents 
own glory and excellence; from their love, him lovingly in that very special relation­the need of treats and surprises, though we for mending brokenness. He is immortal in we can understand the ways that heaven ship existing between a son and his father. might still need to borrow money, or ask for us. even more than our fathers are im­may be gnetle in its dealings. But our first Sometimes I feel his life within me as an the use of the family car. Later, if we were mortal in us, if we could only look beyond taste of omnipotence is in knowing our energy sinewing the loins, and the ex­lucky. we didn't need to borrow anything, the dying. father's genius for making childhood secure perience is as physical as lust. All that I am but by then. we wanted to be with Dad for The problem is, to look beyond the dying. 
against terror, and his talents for mending becoming seems to depend upon him. All his companionship and conversation. That is why, until you can do so, there are no the various kinds of brokenness. Our the decencies I dream of practicing seem to People began to say we looked like Dad, and rituals adequate for comforting young ~' fathers are our first judges, as they praise be communicated through my fidelity to his we regarded him with pride and humor as named Jim who have sad news concerning or correct us, <wu uur earliest saviours from kind of honesty. we recognized where the idea were coming the death of fathers. 
meqnwhile, back on the reservation 
a review by bill wylie 
We last left Billy Jack Chalf-Indian, Viet­\am war hero, karate expert, and mystic 
•.uperhero to America's disillusioned youth) as he was being carted away to stand trial for his morally righteous assaults on that hypocrisy-riddled, dehumanizing, op­pressive. glory of the buck Establishment. With the emergence of the sequel "The Trial of Hilly .Jack," Taylor-Laughlin Distribution company picks up where they left off, this t1me focusing on ... well, just about L'ver:vthing that has emerged as a social sickness since the production of the original tl!m "The Trial of Billy Jack" attempts to !'Xam ine so many social ills, tries to do so many things during the course of its over­hraring three hour duration, that the viewer must wonder who exactly is the one on trial, the audience or Billy Jack. 
The movie begins with some breathtaking at·rial photography of Arizona's majestic \lonument Valley. Simultaneously, the names of various academic institutions flash on the screen. The sites of student killings at Kent State, Jackson State and Southern University are seen along with a l'OUnt of the dead and wounded. Then, ··Freedom School" appears; at once we know that Jean Roberts' <Delores Taylor> mstitution of love and higher education has met a similar fate. Soon we are taken to a hospital room where the injured Ms. Hoberts begins an unflinching recapitulation of the events leading up to the massacre at the Freedom School. Specifically, these events include, the courtroom drama and subsequent man­slaughter conviction of Billy Jack (Tom Laughlin), the emergence of the Freedom School as a leader in progressive education, Billy's mysteriously contrive j parole, his mystic search to find his "center." harassment by super-powerful government and industrial magnates cincluding. the 
bugging of the school by both the FBI and the CIA>, and the Freedom School's un­compromising devotion to Truth as manifested through their, ho-hum, newspaper and radio-television stations which make the Tht• New York Timt>s The Washin~ton Post Jack Anderson, and 
I.F. Stone look like socialite sheets and cub reporters, respectively. And that is merely scratching the surface. 
Before forty minutes of the film are gone, the film explores outright, or caustically alludes to rape, the My-Lai atrocity, Nixon's duplicity, prison reform, child abuse, juvenile court, police shakedowns, Hapkido (another of the seemingly endless profusion of the martial arts), secret campaign funds, the white man's hypocrisy in his dealings with the Indians; all this, and too much more. Inevitably, the villainous perpetrator of these social chancres are the nebulous "They-Them", here represented by big business, the military-industrial complex, the morally berefit American Legion, the moronic State Police and National Guard, and the indifference of the comfortably conformist townspeople. On the culture calculator, it all adds up to the Establishment, with a capital E. that rhymes with T. that stands for Trite. 
Out of this mass of social uglies, we expect to find an attempted direction. There are many possibilities, but too many of them are working at one time. Thus, none of these avenues are taken, the result of which is a confusing maze of unrealized potentials. The film is an extremely violent one, but violence is mere drawing card for audiences in the "The Trial of Billy Jack." It is not examined with artistic integrity of purpose, as it is in Sam Peckinpah's "The Wild Bunch" or "Straw Dogs!' This film includes one man's search to find his elusive, peaceful "center" through Casteneda-like Indian ritual and mysticism. 
Similarly, this possible direction is lost. Also evident is the constant struggle for power. but once again, this possibility is but an episode, it is never developed. What 
rlot>s happen is that these themes are lost in the shuffle of cinematic saturation; they become mere vignettes that flit back and forth throughout thecourse:>f the film, super­charged with emotion yet lacking any ability to sustain themselves. And so we are subjected to an extraordinary amount of whimpering, tearful displays of feeling, as if the filmmaker's mtention was to load the movie with these emotive vignettes and hope that at least one of the multitude will touch the heartstrings and excavate our supposedly submerged passion for Truth into conscious awareness. It is a confusing, disoriented, crazy-quilt of action, tears, and righteousness, and hopefully, the viewer will react to something--anything. 
Artistically, "The Trial of Billy Jack" also leaves much to be desired. Cinematic technique is eschewed for an inordinate amount of dialogue that attempts to carry the brunt of the film's message. Thus, we can never become involved in any sort of vicarious experience, and all the talking becomes meaningless mouthing from stereotypic puppets. Aside from the aforementioned aerial photography that sweeps magnificently over the breathtaking cliffs and canyons of Monument Valley, and the climactic, brutal massacre scene, the camera seems to wait around for something else to happen. These two good efforts merely become the oasis in what is generally a dearth of imaginative cinematography, Nor does editing salvage the film. Rather it magnifies the discon­tinuity by randomly connecting the isolated sequences that lack ability to speak for 

"The Trial of Billy Jack" 
themselves. Subsequently, techniqu' becomes mere gimmickry, such as the use of soft focus lenses and slow motion during some of the Hapkido scenes, all to no ap­parent purpose. 
Certainly, "The Trial of Billy Jack" is concerned with many valid criticisms of American society. There is a certain ring of 
· truth when Billy states that " fhe American conscience is dead." Political corruption, carnpus killings, and the despicable handling of Indian affairs are festering wounds on our social landscape. The problem with this film, is that it depends too much upon emotional exhor­tations, and not enough upon the expressive possiblities of the cinematic medium. Ultimately, the film is victimized by its own inability to discover what i,t pretends to be. 
Friday, November 22, 1974 the observer 





Renovatiorls at Saint Mary I s 

Among the renovations planned at St. Mary's is a new recreation facility to replace the gym in Angela Hall. Upper left: Artist's conception of the proposed building. Below: the present gym in Angela.(Photos by Paul Joyce) 

Angelo Hall: Outdated, outmoded 
New two-story complex estimated at $600,000 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 
Hidden behind Holy Cross Hall, somewhat removed from the main part of St. Mary's campus near the St. Joseph River, lies Angela Hall. Originally built in 1892 "to accomodate the audience that assembles at Saint Mary's Commencement Exercise," according to that year's edition of the college's Annual Catalogue, the building has since been used to house dramatic productions of the school. Now, eighty years after its construction, it serves as the only gym on the SMC campus. 
Poor lighting, cobwebs Students who play basketball in Angela complain of the poor lighting, slanted floor, and cobwebs, in addition to having to play on half of a court, since the facility is not large enough for a full-court game. Within the past year, St. Mary's administration has declared the building "outdated, outmoded, and outgrown," based on the needs of the College. After discovering that the cost of renovating Angela Hall would be greater than erecting a new building, said Acting President Dr. William Hickey, plans for a new recreation facility replacing Angela were drawn up. The proposed facility is slated to be built across from McCandless Hall in what is now an empty field. Building completion is expected within a year and a half, or as soon as the College can raise the necessary funds, said Hickey. · 
$600,000 needed 

According to the Acting President, "the College must have the money at hand when building, especially in these inflationary times." 
In order to obtain the estimated $600,000 needed to build the new facility, a fund-raising committee, with representatives from the Board of Regents, Parents' Council, faculty, alumnae, staff, and "friends" of St. Mary's, was created in October, Hickey continued. 
Stating he was optimistic about raising the money, he commented, "I would be most surprised if the fund-raising drive were not success~ul within a .year." 
Architect's plans call for a two-story complex. On the ftrst floor will be a 
full-sized basketball court, two indoor tennis courts, and two "mini-gyms," 
which, according to Clyde Remmo, ~irector of foundation~ and ~overnme~t, 
can be used for fencing and gymnastics. Also, the sauna m Regma Hall wtll 
be moved into the first floor of the new facility. Showers and locker rooms for 
both men and women, as well as storage areas complete the first floor. 
Gym-training room 

The building's second floor will contain a gym-training room, as well as an 
open area, which looks down on the tennis and basketball courts below. In the 
future, said Remmo, stands may be installed in this area. 
"!he .original pla~s called ~or an indoor, Olympic-si~ed swim~ingpool," 
satd Hickey, "but smce the Ststers of the Holy Cross built a pool m Regina , 
the Board of Regents felt it was far better to increase the kinds of activities 
available by putting in such facilities as indoor tennis courts." 
Construction of the recreation facility, explained Hickey, was one of two major renovation proposals drawn up by the Planning Process earlier in the year. The second proposal involved an addition to the library facility. 
"There was a strong feeling at that time, however, that Angela Hall, which was built in 1892 and in extremely poor condition, required more immediate attention," said Hickey. 
Library under study 
Presently, the library conditions are under study, and based on results obtained from the study, stated Hickey, a proposal concerning library renovation is expected to be made at the January Board of Regents meeting. 
Among the reasons cited for the new building, said Hickey, is "the fact that more and more students are coming to the college expecting modern recreation facilities to be available to them. St. Mary's cannot expect to continue to grow if we cannot answer the valid requests of propective students, such as 'What physical education programs do you have?; What competetive teams have been organized?; How varied are your intramural sports?; and What facilities and equipment are available for recreation and leisure time?" 
Intercollegiate sports 
In addition, he noted that education involves more than an academic curriculum. "It includes developing physically as well as mentally and learning to use leisure time well." 
With the new recreation facility, Hickey hopes that interest will be generated in the intramural and intercollegiate sports teams which are beginning this year at SMC. 
Plans to incorporate a physical education program into the curriculum and the development of intramural and intercollegiate teams, coincide with the development of the recreation facility, he continued. The student affairs, academic affairs, and faculty affairs offices are presently engaged in discussing these plans. 
Phys. Ed. programs 
Ifthe facility is constructed, and physical education programs are included 
in the academic program, said Hickey, a "fully-qualified, full-time staff will 
be required." 
Along with the new recreation facility, a new parking lot will be installed 
adjacent to the building. This will serve as a student parking lot and will 
provide additional parking space which is definitely needed when the college 
sponsors cultural events and other_ act~vities, Hickey said. 
Scale model display 
other areas which could be considered for a parking lot would either be too 
far from the main campus area or is not recommended, such as building near 
the St. Joseph River. 
Ascale model of the new facility is currently on display in the development 
office, in the first floor library wing of LeMans Hall. 
...---------------------~--------~-----~-------~-~-~---~---­!L_~ __tb_e observer Friday_!_f!ovember 22, 1974 

Psychology: A changing department 
by Jean Villeneuve Staff Reporter 
The Psychology Department at SMC has undergone many ('hanges during the past year. These new changes have resulted in a well-diversified and representative department. 
There have been majof changes in the psychology curriculum during the past year at SMC. It has been revised to include the major contemporary and content areas of psychology. Dr. Miller stated, "The Psychology Department in the past was largely oriented toward humanistic psychology, but it is now being broadened to include the major approaches to behavior including humanisitc psychology. 
For instance, the Department's focus has now been broadened to include behavioral and physiological approaches in understanding behavior as well as a psychological and humanistic approach. Thus, the curriculum reflects the varied interests of the faculty. 
"There is a need in a small department to have faculty that have a general knowledge of the field, but who also have specialized interests to have a well balanced faculty and curriculum," said Psychology Department Chairman Dr. Joseph Miller. 
"The department offers to the student a represen­tative and balanced exposure to the theories, methods, findings, and :__ u-., ;n the major contemporary eon tent areas of psychology. It also gives the students the opportunity to receive research and practicum experience in selected areas of psychology. The psychology curriculum reflects the liberal arts tradition of Saint Mary's College, while at the same time providing a sound basis for graduate study in psychology," states the current psychology brochure. 
Another major change in the Psychology -Depart­ment is theadditionof new facilities. The department has established a moderate sized animal room, an eight station General Psychology Lab, and Learning and Physiological Labs in Madeleva Hall. The animal lab is largely for rats and has a capacity for over 100 animals. 
The General Psychology Lab provides an in­
troduction to the basic principles and methods of 
operant conditioning through experimentation. The 
lab is offered twice per semester for a six week period. 
Several experiments are performed where the 
students work at their own pace allowing them the 
freedom to work independently. 
The Learning Lab has four stations and is at an 
advanced level using automated apparatus. The lab 
emphasizes theories and anlysis of behavior to a 
greater extent than does the General Psychology Lab. 
A Physiological Lab has also been added to the department's facilities giving the student exposure to u<•urophysiological and neuranatomical concepts .. lbcussed in physiological psychology. Such ex­···riements as biofeedback in humans, feeding :..·havior in rats, mating behavior in rats, small animal .,,rgery, and neuroanatomy involving dissection and ··xamination of a preserved sheep brain are conducted. 
In addition students are encouraged to undertake other related research experiments under the supervision of the instructor. 
The laboratory facilities have helped much in the growth of the department_ Dr. Miller added, "We are very pleased with the growth of the department, and also the personal and monetary support received from the administration both in terms of the enlargement of our faculty and the addition of laboratory facilities." 
The department is currently considering adding other courses to the curriculum to further broaden its base. Humanistic Psychology may be offered for the rirst semster of alternate years. 
In addition, beginning in the 1975-76 academic year, courses that were only offered on a one semester basis will be offered both semesters to increase the number of course options. For example, developmental, personality, and abnormal psych, statics and in­troduction to psychological research. 
A Physiological Lab has been added to give the student ex­posure to neurophipiological and neuranatomical concepts discussed physiological psychology. Such experiments as feeding behavior in rats, s·mall animal surgery, and dissections are conducted. (Photo by Paul Joyce} 
"The department offers the students various ex­
periential opportunities and research options in a 
number of naturalistic settings," Miller stated. Some 
of these placements include Early Childhood 
Education Center, S.H.A.R.E., and various other 
community agencies such as Northern Indiana 
Children's Hospital, Youth Services Bureau, YWCA, 
St. Joseph Community Mental Health Center, Oaklawn 
Psychiatric Center, Hotline, and Parent-Delinquent 
Education Program. 
The department is seeking to further increase the 
number of placements available in the community. 
"The department has the capacity to sponsor student 
research focused on animals and humans in both the 
laboratory and naturalistic setting," noted Miller. 
The most notable change is the hiring of two full-time 
professors. 
The first full-time addition is Dr. Walter A. Keller, 
who specializes in the area of clinical and community 
psychology. Keller received his Ph. D. from the 
University of Rochester, and his main research in­
terests lie in the area of paraprofessional training, and 
the development and provision of community mental 
health services. 
Keller has had extensive clinical and community 
experience with adolescents, drug problems, and youth 
on probation. 
The second full-time addition is Dr. Lanna L. Ruddy 
who joined the Psychology staff in the areas of ex­
periemental and physiological psychology. Ruddy 
received her Ph. D. from the University of Missouri at 
Kansas City. Her research interests lie primarily in 
animal behavior. especially chemical communication 
in animals. 
Dr. Phyllis Jameson, who specializes in the area of 
experimental development psychology and the 
psychology of women, is ona leave of absence for the 
1974-75 school year, and will be returning in a full-time 
eapacity next year. 
Solutions discussed 


Renovation ahead for SMC library 
by Pattie Cooney Contributing Editor 

Renovation for St. Mary's library has been under consideration for quite sometime. Various committees have conducted studies on the library's facilities and resources since the early sixties. 
"The inadequacy of the present physical facilities of our library has been recognized for some time, with the major problem being lack of space," commented Dr. William Hickey, Acting President of St. Mary's College. 
"The studies previously conducted were never worked on thoroughly enough so that we could say 'here's what we have, what we need, what it will cost and a way of funding the operation," he continued. Funds for the renovation of the library would have to come from an outside source. 
Several solutions have been discussed including the construction of a new building, the renovation of the present facilities, or the construction of a new building, the renovation of the present facilities, or the con-
There have been major changes in psychology curriculum during the past year. It has been revised to include the major con­temporary and content areas of psychology. (Photo by Paul Joyce} 

Dr. Jameson is being temporarily replaced by Dr. Patricia Wanschura, who received her Ph. D. from the University of Notre Dame. Wanschura's research interests lie primarily in the area of developmental psychology, especially cognitive development and mental retardation. 
In a part-time position, Dr. Willis D. Nutting offers two sections of Selected Topics in the History of Psychology. Dr. Nutting specializes in the grea of history and systems of psychology. 
ur. Joseph Miller has reCently been named Psychology Department Chairman. He received his Ph. D. from the University of Tennessee and his research interests include behavior modification, learning, exceptional children and research methods. 
As a result of the additions to the psychology faculty, the department has increased depth with each faculty member specializing in the different areas of psychology. Miller specializes in the behavioristic approach; Dr. Keller, clinical and community psychology; Dr. Ruddy, physiological psychology; Dr. Wanschura, developmental psychology CDr. Jameson for the 1975-76 academic year); and Dr. Nutting, history and systems of psychology. Next year a fifth full time faculty member will be hired in the area of clinical-community or clinical-developmental to fill the position created by the departure of Dr. Larry Scrivner. 
Miller and other members of the faculty are radily available to the students. Dr. Miller concluded, "Any individual that would like additional information about psychology at SMC, its courses, laboratories, etc. is invited to talk with any member of the depart­ment. Also, any interested students are welcomed anytime to discuss their ideas, classs, career plans, or just to shoot the breeze." 
struction of an addition to the main library. "The 
general consensus indicates that we definitely must 
consider building an addition to the present structure. 
We hope to present to the Board of Regents in January, 
preliminary plans formulated the staff," explained 
Hickey. 

Presently library holdings are stored in various 
locations including the Nursing Libary in Madeleva, 
the library in the science hall, the Rare Book Room in 
Regina. In addition there are 20,000 books including 
preiodicals in storage, located in the basement of 
Regina. 

"The library staff has been working during the year 
on library needs, on what is lacking, and what we 
should provide in the library, but have no space for," 
said Hickey. It is hoped that by the January Board of 
Regents meeting that two aspects of renovation will be 
formulated: 

1 l the overall needs of the library, as viewed by the 
college 

2l proposed plan of approach for renovation, in­
cluding: A--how to take all information and convert it 
into concrete specific plans, B--recommendations now 
working with library consultants to put together 
building plans; C--hope with the use of consultants and 
staff to present a proposal for library renovation: 
costs, and approach to take to raise money for library, 
as well as physical plans. 
"The library staff is beginning seriously to plan for 
the Board Meeting in January. The Staff agreed there 
should be an addition, rather than a new building," 
explained Sr. Rita Claire Lyons, Head Librarian. 
"There is no area in the library that is not over­
crowded. We need to enlarge all areas including the 
offices, reading area, stacks, study carols and 
especially work space," she added. 
Presently the library seats 228 people, but student 
enrollment at SMC is approximately 1700. 
In conducting their study, the library staff and members of the development office planto visit other college libraries in the area, such as Rosary College in Illinois, Manchester and Indiana State University in Terre Haute. No d.efinite plans for the library will be 
•developed . until september. 
--------~--------~-----,~ 
...
Friday, November 22, 1974 the observer 
9 ~ 
Open to iuniors 

Nursing major offers a balanced education 
majors, who will graduate in the class of 1977. Ap­
by Jane Cannon Starr Reporter 
"The Department of Nursing at St. Mary's offers a curriculum that includes a balance of liberal and professional education," according to Dr. M..E. Martucci, chairperson of the department. The Nursmg program is open to junios who have completed the Nursing Orientation program and have fulfilled the pre-requisite courses designated by the department. 
Additional acceptance requirements include at­taining a 2.5 or above grade point average in the pre­requisite courses, maintaining a 2.0 or above grade point average in all other college courses and ac­ceptance of the student by the nursing faculty. 
Martucci explained the necessity for the rigid 
requirements as because "more and more people are 
becoming interested in Nursing and the allied health 
field. Nursing is one of the highest employment 
disciplines; you can count on getting some sort o: job." 
"That isn't the best motivation and I don't like to hear it expressed in that way," Martucci said. "There is an over-abundance of interest in this area." 
The first part of the program, on the freshman level, is the Orientation to Nursing. Martucci said, "This is to help the students find a goal, to help them make their choice of a major." The students, on a volunteer basis, go out to other agencies such as the Cardinal Nursing Home and the Northern Indiana Children's Hospital, to work with the patients and see nursing in its natural setting. They are also required to take a Red Cross training course. 
Otercro\Mling cited 
The attrition rate in nursing is low at St. IV.brYs losing no DUe tbm five students at the mlSt. 
Martucci stated, "In the freshman and sophomore year, the nursing courses are not too heavy. The girls don't declare a nursing major until after sophomore year." 
The "pure nursing" courses, integrated in the junior and senior years, are broken down into five levels. In team-taught seminars, the nursing students are educated in the fields of Medical Surgical Nursing, Pediatrics Nursing of Children, Maternity Obstetrical Nursing, Psychiatric Mental Health Nursing, Com­munity Health Public Health Nursing. During the senior year students attend Leadership and Management, Ecology and Issues, and Research Seminars. 
Martucci added "Students may choose 12-18 hours of electives, preferably in psychology or sociology. But we would like to see more of the girls go into teaching. Nursing teachers are very much needed." 
A great many, though, are going into the sciences­biology, chemistry and physics. Some do decide to go on to medical school; it can be done, but many girls decide that it's too tough," she said. 
There are approximately 69 declared nursing 

Science departments improved 

by Annette Buzinski Staff Reporter 
The St. Mary's Science Department is in the process of making some long-awaited changes in the Science Building. These renovations were necessitated by the increased enrollment in the College and especially by the initiation of the nursing department, according to Biology department Chairman Dr. Clarence Dinee. 
Since the nursing department began at St. Mary's slightly more than a year ago, there has not been a decrease in the number of biology, medical technology, ehem istry or physics majors, said Dr. Dorothy Feigl of the chemistry department. In addition to these science majors, 75 students are enrolled in nursing. 
Because of the growing number of students using the science facilities, Feigl believes that the renovations are essential. 
"We (the chemistry department) have had our own problems with overcrowding, but the introduction of the nursing department has made our problems more acute." said Chemistry Department Chairman Dr. Francis Benton. 
Last spring, two phases of renovation were planned. The first phase, which called for the conversion of­classrooms into laboratory space, was completed during the summer. This increased the capactiy of the building, and modernized the equipment and facilities. 
According to Dineen, the biology department, on the second floor of the building, underwent three major changes for this school year. First, a research lab, an audio-visual room and a dark room were made from a classroom. A preparatory room was enlarged by knocking out a wall for easier preparation of ex­perimental materials. Also, the existing labs were renovated, and are now "complete" with new tables, cabinets, and more modern equipment. 
In the chemistry department, on the first floor, renovation also consisted of creating additional lab space. 
First, an apartment and a classroom were converted into separate labs. The former apartment is now an advanced lab. Also during the summer, a stock room was converted into an instrument room and the physics lab was transferred from the second floor to the first, and complertely renovated, while the main stockroom was revamped. 

-
The biology department underwent three major changes, one of which was a new research lab (Photo by Paul Joyce) 
According to SMC Acting President Dr. William Hickey, the first phase of the renovation, which was completed this summer was the most crucial. 
"If the nursing and science programs continue to develop, we must take a closer look at the building," he commented, referring to the fact that space in the building is still at premium. 
Phase II has not been given the same kind of priority as Phase I. If enough funds are raised for it. though, he said that the renovation will be continued. 
Funding for Phase I came directly from the College, whil Phase II is to be financed by outside sources, Hickey said. 
Hecommendations for Phase II of the first floor renovation include changing the present science library into a general chemistry lab, the balance room into £mall research labs, and another classoom into a seminar room and three offices, said Benton. Preparation and balance rooms will also be added. 
"We need new library space, added Dinnee. "We have most of the books and materials here, but there are many useful books which St. Mary's students can obtain only at Notre Dame." 
lrrprovernents ctound 
proximately 85 freshmen intend to declare a major in Nursing. Martucci stated that the attrition rate is low at St. Mary's and expects to lose no more than "five students at the most." 
The Nursing department faculty consists of three full-time teachers and one part-time staff member. The full-time teachers include: Eileen White, Mary Ann Anderson, and Gayle Batchelor. Carolyn Garber teaches Nutrition as a part-time instructor and is also a registered dietician. 
In addition to numerous community facilities used in the teaching process, Martucci added, "We were fortunate to receive an excellent nursing library." 
The Salt Lake City Hospital (which is owned by the Sisters of the Holy Cross) has phased out its nursing program and has donated its library to St. Mary's. 
"In addition, we hope to soon have an audio-visual tutorial laboratory which will contain material on science and nursing, she noted. "It will be made available to students in other departments." 
The Nursing department has been receiving financial assistance from the federal government for the past two years and Martucci hopes they "will continue to receive monies from the government and various foundations." 
Aside from their studies, the nursing students are involved in the National Student Nurses Organization. They have started a St. Mary's chapter of the Student Nurses Organization, and are working in conjunction with the established chapter at Goshen College, to become a charter member of the national organization. The group also sponsors projects in conjunction with tne National Registered Nurses Association. projects in which the student organization have been involved include making favors for the residents of the Cardinal Nursing Home, putting on a Halloween skit and having a picnic with the Notre Dame pre-med students. 
The Nursing department accepted its first students in 1973. St. Mary's had had a nursing program privr to 1958 when it was phased out prmarily for financial reasons. In 1972, Martucci research a feasibility probe and presented it to the Board of Regents. The Board, in February 1973, voted to re-institute the Nursing program at St. Mary's. 
The St. Mary's Nursing program meets the requirements of the Indiana State Board of Nurses' Registration and Nursing Education, and the recommendations set by the National League for Nursing. Upon completion of the Nursing program, the student is prepared to take the state examination for licensure as a registered professional nurse. 
Martucci concluded, "It <the nursing department) is exciting and a challenge as far a building something new. The students well it with their enthusiasm and commitment. The students are keeping the doors of communication open with their interest in public service." 
Red carpet treatment given to LeMons 
by Pattie Cooney Contributing Editor 

Guess what Santa Claus is bringing to LeMans Hall residents? Yes, there really is going to be carpeting in 
all the corridors of LeMans. In addition carpeting will be placed on the first floor of Holy Cross, the only area which is not carpeted presently. 
The installation of the carpets will probably take place over the Christmas break. "The carpeting will cut down on the noise, especially in LeMans; this is something the students have wanted for a long time," commented Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, Vice President for Student Affairs at St. Mary's. 
Santa Claus is also making another stop to the Dining Hall. Carpeting will probably be placed in the seating area only and not in close proximaty to the serving area. Again the main reason for installing the rugs is to cut down on the noise in the dining hall. 
Many of the future improvements in the resident halls and past improvements have originated with the Hall Life Committee. Over the summer study facilities were improved in all the halls. Twelve study carols were added to the lounge in Regina, eight in LeMans, study carol lamps in McCandless, chairs and card tables, etc. The LeMans Hall study lounge was car­peted and an accoustical wall for those who wanted to type was also installed. 
Recreation facilities were improved also. New 
televisions were installed in Regina, McCandless and 
Holy Cross. Pool tables, air hockey games and ping 
pong tables were also installed in the various halls. 
The old post office in Holy Cross was converted into a 
kitchen-iiining area for the students' use. Stapleton 
Lounge in LeMans was also refurnished over the 
summer. The Space Allocation Committee has been 
re-activated under the direction of Sr. Francesca, Vice 
President for Academic Affairs. The committee is now 
in the process of requesting recommendations from the 
department for classroom space needs. 
"When renovating the Science Building this summer 
<Phase I) the college spent approximately $100,000 of 
its uwn money. Phase I was absolutely necessary due 
to the expansion of the nursing program," said Clyde 
Remmo, director of development and government 
realtions. 

"Now, however, the Board of Regents wants funds 
raised to do the rest of the proposed renovations. 
We're not going to spend the money untilwe have it to 
spend. Any expansion will be done step by step; we are 
not in debt and are in no danger of going innthe red," 
commented Remmo. 

Effective next fall the campus grammar school will 
be used by te college in some capacity. It is possible 
that the Nursing program could be moved there. The 
building is owned by the Congregation of the Holy 
Cross. 

"St. Mary's is a very dynamic institution and we · should be proud of what has been accomplished here. 
The administration wants to expand to upgrade the 
facilities, and provide the services students want," 
asserted Remmo . 

...................¥; 
Supplement Staff 
Supplement Editors: Al Rutherford, Mary Janca Asst. Editor: Pattie Cooney Staff: Dan Sanchez, Jane Cannon, Annette Buzinski, Jean Villeneuve Photography: Paul Joyce 

either false or based on ad­produce with existing technology letter was written solely by myself Basketball tix ministrative policy. One should The Arabs and to import technology for and reflects my own thoughts. 
The recent Kubiak's ad com­
know that it's the people who make developing their own countries. 
mending the Junior Class wasthe place, not the bureaucratic
and attitudes If you do a comparative study of certainly greatly appreciated but
rules and structures. (we both 
have drinking laws and parietal and hunger energy consumption per capita or at the same time has caused manyHt>ar Editor. 
restrictions) lln«<erstanding is the food-calorie intake per capita, you problems. The Happy Hours have 
I was going to write a real heated name of the game--petti rules won't find an Arab country become a successful event through 
the efforts of the Junior Classletter in response to the letter should not determine at­Dear Editor. heading the list. 
officers at Notre Dame and St.
written Wednesday, November titudes. 
Yours truly, Mary's. Unfortunately, the ad,Jth entitled, "SMC TIX". You Have a good look at the cartoon Sandra Richard neglected to mention the excellent know ... rant and rave and get of your pro-Zionist cartoonist of the 
REACTIONS: <back to the work done by the girls.
nothing really accomplished but a original issue> Ht'nver Post in today's Observer. 
Justifiably, the girls were upsetheadache. But I decided to chtdt. ThLn check your statistics con­over the advertisement. The whole some things out on my own and cerning the proportion of land in
Well, one last note. I can't Naval ROTC situationcame at a very awkward
have decided to just write out some complain that this year's hike in B­the Arab World that can be time. After the misunderstanding
cultivated. Next, count the tons of 
truths. opinions, and reactions. 
Ball prices were unfair to the SMC about the basketball tickets, and
fertilizer produced there. You'll 
TIH'TII: students. Facts show everything class registration, the girls are
note that the Arabs can send 

gives reply
weren't up in proporti\ln. The again faced with a growing
neither food nor fertilizer to Mrica
I. l Prices last year were 13 dollars arguement now rests in the basic separation between themselves 
or to the Subcontinent. Dear Editor.
for Notre Dame Students B-Ball _premice that SMC tickets are and co~ducational Notre Dame. tickets and $19.50 for St. Mary's and have been higher than the The relationship that we have
The prices of imported food, fuel, I was personally offended by a
Students. Prices this year for had with St. Mary's Junior Class
Notre Dame prices. I think that and fertilizer do have adverse letter appearing in the Obs("rver
basketball tickets wwere $22 or $18 has been one of the few healthy
even though we are separate effects on the balance of payments Tuesday. It was entitled "War 
results of struggling coeducational for Notre Dame Students and $28 schools the reality of the SMC-ND problems in hungry nations. But Games." The writer of this letter plans. The class officers here atfor St. Mary's students. So really, community warrants equality many other factors are involved, stated that he encountered a Notre Dame have always ap­everyone was pinched. in price for all sports ticket prices. such as greed and self-interest on student wearing a letter jacket 
preciated and respected the
2. > SMC students last year were If there's no change, there's the part of decision makers and hearing the words, "Notre Dame assistance we have received fromtheoretically in their own section nothing can be done. I wonder pressure groups in famine areas. Navy." To begin with, I would .Joan McDermott, Kathyjust as is the case this year. though, how profitable it is to the As those variables are more dif­suggest he see an eye doctor for it McGuiness, Haque! Paez, and3. l All of 150 SMC student have ND Athletic Dept. to hike SMC's ficult to measure, perhaps most read. in addition Rifle team, Pistol Michelle McGowan, the St. Mary'sbought basketball tickets for this prices ... 150 total season tix were analysts prefer to omit them from team or both. Letter jackets are officers. Through the cooperation year's season. sold here. the model. given for merely being in the of the two classes, the Happy4.) Mr. Praschak <author of Nov. Navy. This is in direct opposition Hours have successfully providedInstead they13th ed. l stated that, "I think a I have lived in countries where •o your statement.
Dt>nise P("terson a medium for both schools, both 
great deal of the blame should go hunger exists, such as in Ethiopia are given for achievement in the sexes, to meet in an informal at-and in Pakistan. And, I've also fields of riflery and pistol com­
to the SMC Student Government .... mosphere. Even though I would
lived in the Arab World. The Arabs petition, which is hardly the same
for once again assuming Notre like to take the credit for an idea

CIA activity 
aren't the villains in the famine thing. You may not be aware of it,
Dame would do it for them." like the Happy Hours, it was ac­
problem. Those who are biased but a great many university's give 
FALSE. JoAnne Garrett, tually a suggestion of the girls
against Arabs are quick to point a letter jackets for achievements in

disputed
Legislative Commissioner for SMC and they worked equally as hard to
fingPr of blame in their direction this field. The words, "Notre 
sat with Pat McLaughlin and Dear Editor. insure its success.
and use oil prices as an excuse. Dame Navy" are merely a means 
Father Joyce in a meeting over I hope that I am not making a big
For the information of the of making those members of the 
this very issue. <Editorial writers Concerned Students of Notre Dame navy team distinct from those of deal over a small incident, but I 
think that it is important that weshould check out the facts before (Letters to the Editor, Observer, the university. Agreat deal of skill become sensitive to a potentiallythey spurt out misconceptions.) Monday, November 18, 1974) Mr. Have you examined the reasons and effort is required to win the 
Peter Grace has never held a fearfully development that is
5. l Mr. Praschak also stated in his why Arab oil producers increased right to one of those patches. They 
letter that. "St. Mary's refuses position, president or otherwise, are not merely given away. I am occurring at the two schools--a
prices? The basic reason is
with the United Fruit Company. development that is equally awk­
even to offer coex meal tickets on political: to remind the world that both a naval student and a rifle 
He is the Chairman and Chiet ward for the guys as it is for the
their steak night." Notre Dame Palestine continues to be occupied team member although I cannot girls. Once again the word com­Executive Officer of the W. R.
also has special nights that restrict by Zionists who drove Palestinian elaim to be good enough towearthe 
Grace and Company of New York. munication has been, sadly,
SMC students. <What does food farmers and businessmen and jacket of the same. It requires om­
The inference that he has mitted as it usually is at du Lac.
have to do with basketball?) women and children from their superior performance. 
''friendly relations" with the CIA We are anxious to continue to
homes using force. Before the
is unwarranted, unsubstantiated work with the members of our
OPINION: October (19731 War and the oil The second point concerns your
and untrue in its implications. class and the girls at St. Mary's in
boycott, King Faisal of Saudi impression of Rotc. I did not join our effort to create a normal social Mr. Praschak also suggested If only 2 percent of the Notre Arabia informed U.S. represen­to rape, kill. pilage and burn as you life here at school.
SMC should have no more Dame student body comes from tatives that he wanted to pray in might think. I joined as a means of 
priveleges than any othercollegeor families of "working class origin", Jerusalem before he died-and he getting an education and I am glad With High Aspirations,
university in the South Bend are in why is it that 53.9 percent of the implied that he would use oil as a I did. I also joined to get a chance Augusto Grace regards to Notre Dame. I student body is receiving financial wpapon if necessary. Another to use what I learn before I enter Junior Class President disagree for these reasons: (these aid? The primary criterion for reason for high oil prices is public life. NROTC gave over . 
are the rational ones l financial aid is financial need. economic: oil is in demand, and $1000 to Logan center through the 
l.l SMC-ND have 3000 hours of the oil-producing countries need efforts of navy students, andwhich 
The Observer
the money produced by the oil to I am proud to say, I helped in.
exchanged class time, not to Sincerely. 
import food which their land can't They also gave blood to the redmt•ntion that two of our depart­.Jam("s W. Frick 
ments are merged. 

Night Editor --Bill Brink 
2. l The foodservices have tried to 
Ass't Night Editors .. Valerie 
work out an operative system of 
Zurblis, Mary Janca 
co~xchange for meals. 

Layout .. Karen Hoare, Katie 
:l.) There is a sizable amount of 
Kerwin, Bob Brink

activity organized by and for both 
Copy Readers --Jim Eder, Ken
schools. In fact, the St. Mary's 
Bradford

Social Commission has even 
Day Editors .. Valerie Zurblis,
cooperated with the Notre Dame 
Mary Egan

Student Union by paying them 
Editorials .. Fred Graver, Dan
$4000 upon request to cover ac­
Sanchez

tivities St. Mary's students take 
Features .. Robert Baker 
advantage of at ND. 

Sports .. Greg Corgan, Peggy 
... you get the idea .. 
Lawlor, Bill Delaney Typists--Anne Peeler, Barb Haug,
Mr. Praschak put the blame for 
Tom Modglin, Michele Arrieh,
the weakening link between the 
Dennis McNellis, Janet Carney,
two schools on apathy of the 
Rick Huber

SMC students in protesting (even 
Compugraphic Operator .. Bob
though only there are 150 tickets 
Steinmetz

sold which is a protest more potent 
Picture Screener .. Albert D'An­
than talk around here), on the SMC 
tonio

student government (which 
Ad Layout (dubious) --Whales 
was false), on the SMC 
Night Controller ·-Dave Rust
foodservice, SMC security, and 
finally the SMCadministration. 
Have a Happy Birthday, Patty-­
All of these accusations are 
even if you are over the hill. 

aut:rider 



The Art of Dithering 
r:~a rry wilis 
In 1942, Harold Ickes, the Secretary of the Interior, went to call on President Roosevelt. As he neared the executive of­fices, he saw a rubber floor mat at the door. He stopped, grabbed it, rolled it up, gave it to his accompanying chauffeur, and ordered that it be taken forthwith to the nearest scrap rubber depot. The White House did not dare to stop him. Off went the chauf­feur, wasing "live" rubber on the Secretary's limousine in order to drop dead rubber onto a useless dump. 
For it turned out that such doormats were made from rubber already recycled, and could not be used for anything except, <an inferior) doormat. 
What is worse, all those old tires, inner tubes, and garden hoses collected in the scrap rubber drive could not be used in the war efforts, where fresh or synthetic rubber was needed. The most it could be used for was to retread old tires--and there was no lack of rubber for that purpose--evenbefore 
the drive began. 
Why, then, did we have a scrap rubber drive at all? Presidential timidity is the answer. Some even went so far as to call it presidential cowardice. Much of our natural rubber supply had been cut off by Japan. Synthetic production went entirely for war goods. Franklin Roosevelt was told that there would be no rubber for new car tires during the war, and tried to pass this news on to the people in a press conference. 
He also told Americans--what his experts 
had assured him--that the only way to keep 
tire use down was to ration gasoline. When 
that news hit the wires, various 
congressmen tried to cultivate their con­
stituencies by trumpeting that these con­
stituents would never submit to gas 
rationing even in war time. 
So the President quickly backed off. In his very next press conference he said he was not really in favor of gas rationing after all. He asked for any alternative plan, any old plan; and got the silly scrap rubber idea. 
The whole thing was a bust, so Roosevelt had to return to gas rationing-later, than he should have, and after a lot of waste motion, energy, and silly propaganda. He called on Bernard Baruch to do a new study, which told him what the first study had told him, that only gas rationing would save the tires already. in service for the duration of the 
ar. 
As presidents go, Roosevelt was no ditherer. So if even he vacillated and feared to ask for austerity, even during a war, it is no wonder that President Ford keeps ducking the obvious. 
Secretary Kissinger spelled out some of these obvious things in his Chicago speech. If we mean to stand up to the oil countries, we cannot do it alone; we need Western Europe and Japan on our side. But no one will take us seriously unless we show a willingness to cut back on oil consumption, and to do it drastically, as France and England have already done. That would make us less dependent on the Arab countries' good will, and would earn some respect from our potential allies. 
That means there is an urgent need for several or most of these steps (and preferably for all) : a tough oil import quota, a stiff gas tax, a crash development of alternate energy sources, mileage requirements for new cars, expanded programs of public transit, energy­conservation requirements for new public and commerical buildings. 

"Gov. Rockefeller, there's a man outside and he says he has a book he'd like you to publish." 
"I can't see anyone right now." 
"He's been here three days and says he won't leave." 
"All right, send him in." 
"Mr. Rockefeller, my name's Lasky, and I'd like to do a biography of Harold Stassen. I thought you might publish it." "I'm not in publishing any more. I lost a bundle on the Arthur Goldberg book." 
"But Mr. Rockefeller, this is better than a Goldberg biography. Harold Stassen is one of the greatest men in the country. Everyone wants to read about him. You could sell a hundred thousand copies with your eyes closed." 
"That's what they told me about the Goldberg book. They promised me that the Book-of-the-Month Club would tak, anything about a former justice of the Supreme Court So I called up my brother, Laurance, and told him we were onto a good thing and asked him to go in on it with me. Now Laurance is sore as hell. He hates to lose money in a business deal." 
"But, Mr. Rockefeller, you can't just quit 
publishing because you had one flop. My 
hook could put your company in the black." 
"I don't know. It's not easy for a Rockefeller to have an investment that goes sour. We thought we had a sure thing with Goldberg. After all, he was a labor lawyer, a_Supreme Court justice and an ambassador 
art: buchwald 
to the United Nations. You would have thought people would break down the bookstore doors to buy the book. We were even hoping to sell it to movies with Robert Redford playing Goldberg. But after the lousy sales, Redford didn't want to touch it. I don't know how we could have been so wrong as to what the reading public would go for." 
"But my book has more excitement than Goldberg's. Harold Stassen is a lengend in America. He was governor of Minnesota, president of a university and a presidential candidate four times. Redford would give his eyeteeth to play him in a movie." 
"Okay, Mr. Lasky, you can go ahead with the project. How much of an advance do you want?" 
"Ten thousand dollars." 
"All right, now this is what I want you to do. Go to a telephone booth on Third Avenue and 59th Street at three o'clock tomorrow afternoon. A man will pick you up and take you to Grand Central Station and give you a key to a locker. In the locker you will find the name of a lawyer in Los Angeles. You're to fly out to L.A.. and this lawyer will give you a check on a bank in St. Louis,Missouri. You can fly to St. Louis and cash the check." 
"Why can't you just give me a check now?" "What? And have the public know the Rockefellers are back in the publishing 
business?" · · · · · -· · · · · · · · . . . . 'evaluators, we olightto applaud them rot ~~in~q~vpted' educ~tors. 
No sense studying. Once teachers find out about grade inflation, 
nothing will be able to help the student depression. 
apinia n !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
•
Grade Inflation • 
Evil or Blessing ? 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiii-jim eder 
Inflation seems to be the most prominent word in the news lately. Not only are we faced with the challenge of confronting economic inflation but, according to TIME magazine and many college ad­ministrators, we are threatened by academic inflation as well. 
Statistics have been handed out, revealing that the median grade 
point average at Notre Dame has risen nearly half point in the last ten 
years and that the "problem" of grade inflation elsewhere is even 
"worse." 
In their efforts to get at the root of the "evil", journalists and ad­
ministrators alike have come up with a myriad of reasons for rising 
academic averages, blaming everything from the stiff requirements 
of graduate schools to the threat of military induction. 
Perhaps the most significant reason for the increased number of 
high grades, however, has been ignored by the disturbed proponents of 
a stiff grading system. Those seeking -to eliminate the existing in­
flationary elements in the academic world have apparently 
overlooked the fact that a good number of professorssimply do not 
believe in distin~uishing the performance of their students. 
Indeed, many teachers who properly see themselves as educators rather than evaluators are repelled by the thought of playing GOD for academic judgement days. Consequently, they grade their students in such a manner as to diminish the importance of grades. By alloting a large number of above average grades they are not succumbing to their own sympathetic hearts or to student pressure; rather, they are standing up against the system in the only way they can. 
A strict grading system may very well hinder rather than promote 
the educationprocess. How can students pursue their studies con­
scientiously, when their minds are preoccupied with grades? The 
competition created by a strict grading system can be overwhelming­
a competition that can hurt the top students as well as the slow ones. 
Faced with the dilemma of attaining grades that will be accepted by 
overcrowded graduate schools and very selective employers, even the 
best students often find themselves designing methods that will 
superficially demonstrate their ability. In order to maximize per­
formance only tested material is studied with diligence. To avoid 
carrying an overburdensome schedule, less challenging courses are 
sought, even though they may have no relation to one's field of study. 
Fierce competition rages among students in preregistration as well as 
examinations. 
One must seriously consider whether these obvious detriments are 
outweighed by the purported benefits of a strict grading system (in­
centive, due credit, etc.). Some professors have concluded that this is 
not the case-that the drawbacks far outnumber the advantages. 
Others, most notably the majority of college administrators, have not 
drawn this conclusion and believe that the grading system is essential 
to education. Indeed, the possibility of grades being completly 
abolished is highly remote. 
The argument most often used to support the grading system is that 
graduate schools and employeers need some guidelines to follow in 
accepting applicants. This may very well be true. But it raises a very 
serious question: Do students attend college for four years to simply 
demonstrate their abilities or to honestly learn and expand their 
minds? 
If higher education has become a mere testing ground or technical 
preparationfor the competitive business world, then a strict grading 
system is in order. If, however, education is also an end in itself, then 
it may very well be threatened by a strong emphasis on grades. 
Those professors who believe in the latter may not be able to 
eliminate the grading system entirely, but they have been able to 
lessen its detrimental effects to some extent. By using a less harsh 
and more informal method of grading in their classes, some 
professorshavelifted the pressures of competition from the shoulders 
of their students, and thus opened the way toward the true purpose of 
higher education. No doubt some students have and will continue to 
misuse this opportunity, but those who have properly taken ad­
vantageof'thishave benefited greatly. 
Rather than reprimanding those professors for. qeing poor_ 
• • ' I # I • .t " I ,f .F ~ I I., I I I 6 _. ' • o '., e 6 • • •• oO ' It • • • • • 6 • ' • I I • .. I • . 

-----~---~~ 
----~-~-­

12 the observer _ Friday, November 22, .197~ 
Aerosol cans lllay threaten earth's ozone radiation shield 
Wt\~HIM;TON l 1PI-The fear is that gases used as propellants in hair sprays,
A National Academy of Sciences deodorants, insecticides and the 
pan£'! believes gases from aerosol like are building up in the upper 
cans pose a serious threat to atmosphere where they can Parth 's vital ozone radiation destroy the ozone that protects life shield, and the academy has or­from dangerous ultraviolet solar derl'd a full-scale investigation. radiation. 

What places of interest will the "Quickie" be hitting this Friday and at whal timE' will it bE>gin its route? 
This Friday the "Quickie " begins its rounds at 8:30p.m. with the rinal bus leaving the circle at 1:30 a.m. Places of interest that the "Quickie" will stop at include: Holy Cross Hall at SMC, Por­taphino's, Heidlber~. Shula's, Kubiak's and others. Th_e price will be the same as last time, $0.50 each way or $0.75 for all mght. 
Since this Saturday's game against Air Force is the last home game of the season is there something special planned forth~ pep r·a lly? 
t 
The last football pep rally for this year will begin at 7:00p.m. in Stepan Center and the guest speakers include, along wi~h an i~­
troduction of the seniors on the team, the two co-captams, Encl Penick, Ara, and special guest speaker Paul Hornung. The only thing that will be able to top this rally will be the game itself. 
I I just got some Mardi Gras rarfiE' tickets from my section leader, what am I supposed to do with them? 
! 
The Mardi Gras Committee is giving $5.00 for each book sold to the halls that have met their quota for sales. So if your hall has 230 people and it meets its quota your h~ll stands to make oy~r $~000.00 So if you want a new pool table, k1tchen, or other fac1hty m your 
i 
hall you'd better go out and sell them. 
Is there a drivE>-away company in the area that I can get a car for 
the Thanksgiving break? 
Jim Scott is the campus representative for the Wilson's Driveaway company. You can reach him by calling 1694 or stopping by 6~1 Grace. To take a drive-away you need to be 18 and own a vahrl driver's license. You have to put down a deposit ranging from 50 to 150 dollars and be willing to pay for gas and oil. The drive-a ways can be driven to any part of the country. 
NOTE: The Ombudsman Service is ready and able to solve all your problems just call us week days from 9:30 to 5:00 Monday through Thursday nights 10:00 to midnight at 7638. 
Taiwan diplomat 
to visit ND-SMC 
hy (;regg Bangs Staff ReportE>r 

.James Sehn, ambassador to the United States for the Republic of China(Taiwan) will visit the St. :\1ary's-Notre Dame community Sattjrday, November 23. 
A reception for the ambassador will be held at 10 a.m., Saturday, in the Moreau Art Gallery at St. \lary's. All members of the l'ollege faculty, administration and studt>nt hody are welcome to at­tend. 
The ambassador will then attend the Notre Dame-Air Force football gaml'. Following the game he will \·isit friends. 
"The ambassador has many friends in this area," S. Rose Ellen l\1orrissey, head of the St. Mary's art department said. 
"The Chinese community here is quite different from the one he works at in Washington D. C. There are many Chinese in­tellectuals and scholars here in the SMC-ND area, and he would like to renew acquaintances," she con­tim!ed. 
Sehn received his bachelor of arts degree from Yenching University of Peiping, China. He continued his education at the University of Missouri, Columbia, where he earned his master's degree. 
The ambassador was appointed to his present post in 1971. Before that, he served in various govern­mental agencies, including such posts as director of information, ambassador to Australia and vice­minister of foreign affairs. 
Dr. Donald M. Hunten, chairman of the five-member committee that recommended action, said the accumulation of the fluorocarbon gases most commonly known commercially as Freon seems to be "a thoroughly immediate threat." 
Hunten's group met Oct. 26 and decided unanimously that the matter warranted a full in­vestigation. The academy's governing board agreed at a meeting last Saturday, and directed a subcommittee of the Climatic Impact Committee of the 
National  Research  Council  to  
study  the  situation  and  issue  
recommendations.  

The academy declined to release the text of the preliminary panel's report. but a spokesman said Wednesday: "They agreed it is a serious problem and needs im­mediate attention. They asked for action within a year." 
Bunten, reached by telephone at his of~ice at the Kilt Peak National Observatory, Tucson, Ariz., said he could not reveal the text of the panel's report. But he said: 
"My personal feelings are that it really is serious, and drastic action is going to be necessary within a year or two to protect the ozone layer unless there is some com­pletely new factor about the chemistry or the stratosphere that nobody has thought of yef. That is a remote possibility." 
Ozone is a form of oxygen that gathers in the upper atmosphere and screens out nearly all high intensity ultraviolet radiation. Most scientists agree that life did not develop on Earth's land masses until the ozone layer for­med. 
The academy said in a 1973 report that a 5 per cent reduction in ozone would increase radiation to the extent that 8,000 additional cases of skin cancer might develop in the United States. Later estimates were even higher. 
The fluorocarbons themselves are harmless. But research has determined they accumulate in the upper atmosphere where sunlight releases chlorine atoms which destroy ozone molecules. 
W~t Qlnlnnial lfanrakr lfnu.sr 

"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
=*::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
:i:i 35 Varieties of Pancakes :::: ::::chicken -Steak -Sandwiches :::: ii!! Friday Nites: Perch Dinners~~~~: :~::::::::::::::::::::;;;:;;;;;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::~: 
Your Host
U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards, NO '50 
Pat Ga.5rett 
anu Billy the Kid 
BOB DYLAN KRIS KRISTOFFERSON 
James Coburn .Jason Robards 
Rita Coolidge Slim Pickens 
Tonight 7, 9, and 11 pm Engineering Aud. 

NOTRE DAME 71·UCLA 70 
Play It Again, Digger 
He has. 
A COACH'S WORLD recalls every exciting moment of the 1974 basketball season. This candid, outspoken diary takes you be­hind the scenes as the Irish pursue-and achieve-national prominence. All of the drama and excitement, exhilaration and disappointment of an unforgettable season is relived. Intimately. Absorbingly. And only as it could have happened under the Golden Dome. 
SPECIAL PRE-PUBLICATION 
AUTOGRAPHING SESSION: 
Digger will autograph copies 
in the Notre Dame Bookstore 
before the Air Force game 
on November 23. 


Friday, November 22, 1974 the observer 13 ... 
Half of $4.3 IDillion recovered from country's largest robbery 
CHICAGO UPI -Some $2.2 million of the $4.3 million in cash taken in the Armored Express vault burglary was found Thurs­sday night under a five-inch layer of concrete in the basement of a home owned by the grandmother of one of the suspects. 
U.S. Attorney James R. Thompson said the money, taken in the biggest cash heist in American history, was recovered by agents of the FBI, the Illinois Bureau of Investigation and local police. 
The cash, in an assortmentof $10, $20, $50, and $100 bills, filled five army duffel bags. 
It was found in a seven-foot deep hole in the basement of a home owned by Dorothy Marrera, the grandmother of Ralph Marrera, an Armored Express security guard accused of being the inside man in the Oct. 20 heist. 
The grandmother was not suspected of complicity in the crime, Thompson said. Thompson. said the hole was covered by a laypre{\ concrete reinforced with c.\\\c-v:..,a wire. 
He said agents, armed with a warrant from a U.S. magistrate, went to the unoccupied house Thursday night and tore up the floor in search of the missinl'( cash. 
Thompson refused to say
what  .  led  the  police  to  the  
money.  
The  recovery,  Thompson  

said, was "fa r beyond what I 
thought  we  would  be  able  to  
recover.;;  
Thompson  noted  that  the  

recovery was "one of the largest cash recoveries in the history of the United States." 
Six men have been arrested and charged in the burglary of the security company's vault, where about $25 million had been stored for th e weekend. 
Only about $39,000 of the money had been recovered before Thursday night, about $29,000 of it coming from two suspects, Pasquale Charles Marzano and Luigi DiFonzo--the alleged mastermind of the heist--when the two were arrested by British authorities on Grand Cayman Island in the West Indies Oct. 30. 

IRA bombs British taverns 
BIRMINGHAM. England <UPH­
-A series of explosions rocked two crowded center-city bars Thur­sday night, a police official said. 
Assistant Chief Constable Maurice Buck said he feared 12 or 13 persons were killed. Many others were reported injured. The Pxplosions hit the Mulberry Bush and the Tavern in the Town pubs in the city's Bull Ring district. 
"There are eight dead in the Mulberry and four or five in the Tavern," Buck said. 
Buck said poice counted at least 50 injured in the Mulberry Bush and "scores" in the Tavern--both packed with a mainly youthful crowd. 
He said the Tavern, a cellar pub, was practically destroyed. Scores of taxis helped ambulances ferry the injured to hopitals. 
If confirmed, the fatality toll would be the highest in more than 20 months of bomb attacks against civilian and military targets in Britain. Most of the bombings were claimed by the militant Provisional wing of the Irish Republican Army as part of the IRA campaign to end British rule over Northern Ireland. 
Volunteers needed in MANASA program 
by Bill Gonzenbach Starr RPporter 
Director of MANASA Dick Williams. announced yesterday that volunteers are needed for the annual gift collection program at the Logansport State Mental In­stitution in Logansport, Indiana, on Saturday, Dec. 7. 
Williams said the purpose of the program is to collect gifts and take them to the hospital so patients in the institution can give the gifts as Christmas presents to their friends and families. "The people in the institution are unable to buy gifts. So we want to take the gifts to them so that they will have something to give on Christmas," the director said. 
''Transportation will be provided for all volunteers by MANASA. We will leave early on Dec. 7 and be back that evening," Williams said. The director added that free meals will be provided for all volunteers. 
Williarlits also said the directors of the institution have asked MANASA to present a talent show on Dec. 8. "We are asking anyone who has any talent, such as playing a guitar or singing, to volunteer to help in the show. It would involve staying overnight at the hospital 
WAITRESSES NEEDED AT FAT WALLY'S 
2046 So. Bend Ave. 
277-0570 APPLY IN PERSON 
1 

• ~....·~. '\, ~ '\.~ ~ .. 0 •,.t"'r; 'f, "·~"..·" ·•,•' ~~.·· 'IJ..... /."·-+ '.)ll~. 
because the show is on Dec. 8," Williams said. 
The director explained the work the volunteers wil do. "Volunteers will help the patients to the gift center and help them wrap the gifts they choose.There is also a lot of personal contact with the patients. There's great satisfaction in knowing you've helped a mother give her child a Christmas present," Williams said. 
Anyone interested in volun­teering should contact Dick Williams at 289-37!14. 
The previous highest toll came early this year when a bomb biased a military bus. killing 12 -blasted including women and o..:mldren dependents. 
Before the bombings Thursday, a total of 26 persons were killed in bomb blasts in Britain since the current campaign began. 
Buck said the bombs went off at around 8:30 p.m. after a day of tension in the city over plans by IRA sympathizers to give a "hero's funeral" to an IRA man killed while carrying a bomb a week ago. 
Earlier this month, a bomb lobbed through a pub window near a British army barracks at 
Wollwich in southeast London
killed two persons and injured a dozen. 
Bombs planted in two pubs used by the Military in the Guildford area, 28 miles south of London, killed five and injured 40. A bomb planted in the capital's most popular tourist haunt, the Tower of London, killed a briton and injured more than 30 persons, mostfy foreigners, on July 17. 
Birmingham, a major industrial center of 1.1 million population 110 miles north f London, has a large Irish community. It has been hit by bombs at least eight times this year, causing several fatalities this year. 

}**********************************j
i  IVJICHIGAN STREet  :  
a  ADULT THFATRES  ~  
* :  X  2 F1LM3  * :  
* :  X  BOCESI'CEE  *!  
* ~  X  LIVEFLcx::RSHOW  * ~  
~  1316 SOUfH MICtiGAN STREEl'  ~  
*CALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION: 


t*********************************** 
"THE NAZZ" 
Presents 
JAZZ NIGHT 
with 
ND JAZZ BAND & COMB 
Friday at 10:00 P.M. Saturday -3 sets of music 
Starting At 10:00 P.M. 
PLACE-BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE 
STUDENT GOVT. SPONSORED Admission Free 
~================~~~~~~~~:;!!
I 
SHARE THE RIDE WITH US THIS THANKSGIVING AND GET ON TO AGOOD THING. 
Us means Greyhound, and a lot of your fellow students who are already on to a good thing. You leave when you like. Travel comfortably. Arrive refreshed and on time You'll save money, too. over the increased air fares. Share the ride with us on weekends. Holidays. Anytime. Go Greyhound. 
GREYHOUND SERVICE 
ONE­ ROUND­ YOU CAN  YOU  
TO  WAY  TRIP  LEAVE  ARRIVE  
Chicago  5.50  10.45  9:25A.M.  11:20 A.M.  
Cleveland  14.85  28.25  8:55A.M.  4:15P.M.  
Pittsburgh  22.20  42.20  2:30 P.M.  1:40 A.M.  
Detroit  11.55  21.95  10:35 A.M.  4:45 P.M.  
Milwaukee  9.20  17.50  2:00P.M.  6:15P.M.  

Ask your agent about additional departures and return trips. 
GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL 210 W. Monroe St. 287-6541 
GO GREYHOUND 
-.-,._and.leave the.drivinu.to.us.~ . 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
l 4 the__gbs~_rver Friday, November 22, 1974 
Concerning fortune 
Rocky asks for direct inquiries 
Washington l'PI Vice 
presidential nominee Nelson A. 
l{ockefeller asked Congress 
Thursday to relieve his family of 
any more embarassment by 
asking him directly all future 
questions about the Rockefeller 
fortunt•. 
Acknowledging that the family money wasa legitimate topic for inquiry. Rockefeller insisted in testimony before the House .Judiciary Committee there would he "no conflict of interests" bet­Wl'('n the job x vice president and 
estimated in excess of $1 billion. that he felt Congress had enough"We don't operate like a cor­information about his familyporation." he told the first day of 
financial operations.. 

House committee hearings on his "If you feel you need additional
nomination. "Each ofus follows information," he said, "ask me. 
hi~ own coure." 
All my brothers and sister have It was the first time during the been very tolerant but I en't say 
two-month congressional in­they're enthusiastic about the vestigation into his public and inquiry. private affairs that Rockefeller "I would like to minimize the has described the inquiry as "A impact on the rest of the family." 
source of embarrassment" to Chairman Peter Rodino, family member"'. D+N.J., whose eommittee expects to hold two weeks of hearings, said
"I would like to avoid involving 
Rockefeller stillmust undergothem in my thing," he said, adding ''thorough'' scrutiny on the issue of 

conflict o interest. But he 
promised his committee would not
Hunt brought in to court 
(continued from page 4) 
counsPI .John Dean is totally out of 
control and if matters are not 
handiPd adroitly that you could get 
a rt>solution of impeachment," 
defl.'ndl.'nt .fohn D. Erlichman 
• I rl.'marked on April 25. ''That's right," Nixon replied. 
IUSB students analyze drugs 
(continued from page 1) 
more specitic tests are run to determine the specific characteristics of the drug. Finally, the sample is put through a battery of tests to confirm the results of the first two tests. The following drugs are looked for in the russ test: 
t\1\JPIIETAMINE (bt>nniesl 
ATHOPINE (':\FFEINE 
('()('AINE 
CODEINE 
DI\JT 
IIEHOIN 
LSD 
l\IES('ALINE 
METHADONE METHAMPHETAMINE (spt>t>dl l\IETII:\Ql'ALO:'I:E (sopt>rs, quaaludt>l 
l\IOHPIIINE 
PIIEI\i('\'('LIDI:'I:E (PCP> 
I'IIENOBAHBIT:\1. OllJNINE S('Ol'OLAMINE STP (dom) STHY<'IININE 
Lyons sophomore assaulted last Saturday night 
A Notre Dame sophomore was assaulted early last Saturday morning as she returned to her residence hall. 
The Lyons Hall resident reported that she noticed a group of five ~·oung men carousing under the lloward Hall archway as she was returning from the "Nazz" at I :30 a.m. 
The woman told Campus S('curity that she heard one of the mt•n call her name before they approached and encircled her. The m<>n then began punching and kieking her, and one of the at­tackers grabbed for her breasts. 
According to the Security report the woman began screaming and kicked one of the men in the groin. She then ran to Lyons hall. 
The security report stated that nothing was stolen from thE­woman but that she was badly bruised. The victim described the attack as "more violent than sexual." 
The woman told security officers 
cover the same ground as earlier Judge John J. Sirica also accepted Senate hearings." as evidence a 1972 memo by E. The Senate Rules Committee Howard Hunt Jr. demanding the was expected to approve the administration meet its !'om­Rockefeller nomination Friday, 
mitments of money, pardons and but Chairman Howard W. Cannon, "rehabilitation" for the original D-Nev., said there was "no Watergate defendants. chance"' the Senate could act on 
Hunt was called to identify a the nomination before copy of the memo, written a week Thanksgiving. after Nixon's 1972 election victory. 
Through this student-run program, a complete analysis of any unknown drug or uncertain drug can be obtained in one week free and confidentially 
Finally, Nazaroff praised the program for the unique role it plays within the South Bend community and its connection with 
a college campus. "The South Rend Police about three years ago tried to set up a program similar to the one we now have at IUSB," he said. 
"They tried to establish drop boxes throughout police precincts where people could being samples. On the box would be a number to call in order to find out the results of the analysis" Nazaroff reported. 
"The program did not succeed because it was handled by a law mforcement agency which people did not trust," Nazaroff stated. A University is more competent to handle a service such as this one." he said. 
"One of our jobs is to diseminate information," Nazaroff concluded. "This is one way of doing it." 
QlliCKIE SHllTTLE SYSTEM: 
Main circle at ND••••• ••••••• ••••••••••••••••••• 8:30 
Holy Cross-SM C ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• R: 34 
Light before Boar's Head••••••••••••••••••••••••• !\:38 
Light at Denny's-Village lnn ••••••••••••••••••••••!\:40 
.Jay's Lounge on '31 ••••••••••• a •••••••••••••••••• 8:45 
Portaphino's on '31••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 8:~1 
IJPidelbe-rg on ·31 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••" R:~5 
Shula'son '31 ••••••••••• •••••••••••••••••••••••• 9:00 Kubiak's on ':11 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 9:04 Light at Denny's·Villagr:> Inn•••••••••••••••••••••• !1:08 1.ight aftf~r Boar's Head •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 9:10 
llollv Cross Haii-SMC' •••••••••••••• ••••••••••••·•• 9:15 
1\lai~ Circle at Nl) ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 9:20 
Thrre will also be runs following this same schedule leaving the main circle at 9, 9:30, 10, 11, 12, 12:30, 1, 1:30. All buses go to Michigan. The cost will be $.50 one way or$.75 for all night. If you have any questions please call the Ombudsman at 7638. 
FAT 
WALLY'S 
that she thinks she recognized one of the men but, because she is not 
WILL OPEN MONDAY! positive, did not want to accuse him. 
The attack was reported to Campus Security on Nov. 19, three 2046 SOUTH BEND A VENUE days after the incident. 
• '• 0 f I It I 0 IJ Iff 0 f 1 I I. '1' too I 0 1 I .. f t .. e 1 o1 ,· ~ • • • • • 0 .' •' _l -' ! 
' 

SUNDAY MASSES 
(MAIN CHURCH) 
5:15p.m. Sat.  FH. ROB GHIFFIN C.S.C.  
9:30 a.m. Sun.  FR. LEN BANAS C.S.C.  
10:45 a.m. Sun.  FR. THEODORE HESBURGH C.S.C.  
12:15 p.m. Sun.  FR. RILL TOOHEY C.S.C.  

FREE! J PAIR OF SLACKS CLEANED AND PRESSED. 
bring this ad to: 
ROBERT'S NORGE VILLAGE 
1628 N. IRONWOOD DR. 
drop off your LALJN)RY and DRY CLEANING take advantage of our excellent service and low prices. 
Featured in September 30th 
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED 
Cast inclu(t!ng N.F.L.GREATS: 
Joe Kapp. Sonny Sixkiller ­Ray Nitschkl! -Ernie Wheelright . 
Ray Ogden -Pervis Atkins 
From the producer of "The Godfather": AI Ruddy 
BURTREYNOLDS '~.THE LONGEST YARD'' 
EDDIEALBERT 
U·~fMI~•Nto 

ED LAUTER MIKE CONRAD 
''"'""'EO"' ALBERTs. RUDDY o••• ., o B• ROBERT ALDRICH 
Miami & Ireland Roads South Bend 
Air·Conditioned Comfort 
FREE PARKING 

NONSHO\MNG 
at 2:00-4:30 7:00-9:30 


Cagers in action Sunday for Neighborhood Progrcun 
by Bill Delaney 
Coach Digger Phelps will bring his Irish cagers into the ACC for their final warmup before their season opener at Valpo with an intersquad scrimmage for the benefit of the Neighborhood Study Help Program Sunday night at 7:30 in the ACC. 
The Neighborhood Program is a group of Notre Dame students who volunteer their services in tutoring South Bend area school children. 
"Last year, the entire neigh­borhood program was funded by the federal government, but this year. they are totally out of funds," explained coordinator Denny Brennan. "We decided that we weren't going to abandon the program. so with the proceeds from this game, we can continue our services to the South Bend community." 
There is a special halftime festivity planned by Brennan, with a special 'game' between members of the Notre Dame's faculty and administrators. Athletic Director Ed 'Moose' Krause, Father Edmund P. Joyce, and Father Terry Lally, Dean of Students John Macheca and Ticket Manager Don Bouffard have already indicated that they will play in the 13-minute exhibition. "We'll make up teams at halftime by picking names out of a hat," said Brennan.. "The 'game' hopefully will provide some good times for all involved." 
Admission for the scrimmage is 50 cents for adults and Notre Dame students, and 25 cents for children under 12. "We're all here to have agood time and to help the com­munity," said Coach Digger Phelps. "We only hope that there is a good turnout to help support this worthy cause." 
Rally tonight 
Friday night's pep rally for the 
Air f<'orce game will be a tribute to 
the graduating seniors on the 1974 
Football squad. The rally, which 
will begin at 7 p.m. in Stepan 
Center. will feature Co-Captains 
Tom Clements and Greg Collins, 
introducing the senior members of 
their respective offensive and 
defensive units. Senior halfback 
Eric Penick will also give his 
observations on tomorrow's 
contest with the Falcons. 
Special guest speaker for the 
rally will be Paul Hornung, noted 
halfback, quarterback, safety and 
kick returner on the 1954, '55 and'56 
Notre Dame squads. In 1956, 
Hornung led Notre Dame in 
scoring, rushing, passing and kick 
returns, a feat which culminated in 
his selection as the Heisman 
Trophy winner for that year. 
Head Coach Ara Parseghian, 
who will be closing his eleventh 
home stand at Notre Dame against 
the Air Force Academy, will be the 
closing speaker. 
leers face ND 
(continued from page 16) 
to Jet down. Anytime a hockey 
team takes to the road, they have 
to adjust to a change of en­
vironment, hostile fans, different 
ice, and different boards. This 
makes an away sweep a difficult 
goal to achieve. 
Lefty Smith brings his players to 
the wilds of North Dakota and their 
new Winter Spods Complex, 
complete with 3000 fluourescent 
lights, 20 inch wide seats, 78 exit 
doors, 5 public phones, and seating 
for 5630. The Irish icers can take a 
pair from the Sioux, if they play 
the calibre of hockey they are 
capable of, seen in practice every 
day. 
ntley and his teammates scrimmage on behalf of the Neighborhood Study Help Program Sunday night at 7:30 in tbe ACC. 
The Irish Eye 
(continued from page 16) 
Mississippi State at Mississippi: This game's at Jackson on a "neutral" site so both teams have hometown support. The Bulldogs have been more than a little bit better compared with the Rebels, and Ole Miss has had a woeful season. Miss. St. by 14. Lawlor: State by 20. 
Arkansas at Texas Tech: Frank Broylesis under fire at Arkansas and his job could be on the line. Texas Tech is winding up a fairly successful season (7-2-1) while the Porkers are5+1. Tomorrow look for Tech, by 14. 
Lawlor: Arkansas by 12. 
Upset or the week: Nebraska over Oklahoma: This would be es­pecially nice for Alabama, Notre Dame and the Orange Bowl. The Cornhuskers have improved week to week, but admittedly the Sooners have been devastating. The game is at Lincoln so that may be a small plus. Hopefully, Nebraska by 7. Lawlor: Unfortunately, Oklahoma by 
20. I 
Last week: 10 of 15, 67 per cent. Lawlor: 11 of 15, 73 per cent. Season: 107 of 150, 71 per cent. 
1 Dumber luck 


Friday, November 22, 1974 the observer 15 
l
f CLASSIFIED RDS 
NOTICES 

Available Room, Fri. and Sat. nitesattheAbbey Inn. Call Sherm Smith 1528 
Good opportunity for enterprising students Establisl"ed" carry -out pizza business plus living quarters and apartment. Age and illness force sale. Owner will carry contract with goOd terms. Call Sharon Deering 289~ 1394. First Realty 282-2337 
Do you need a ride over Thanksgiving break? Wilson Driveaway has cars going to all part.s of the nation. For info, call Jim at 1694 after llp.m. 
Someone took the wrong blueParka Friday night at the Heidleberg; Mine is smaller, I have the XL. Call 1372. 
The early childhood Development Center at St. Mary's would I ike a singer with guitar to entertain at Christmas Party 5:30-6:30 Dec. 15, 1974. Fee open. Songs appropriate for season and young children. Call Mrs. Pat Garreffa 284~4150 
CILA Christmas cards on sale this week Cafeterias, Huddle and Library. $1.75 for 12 Masterpieces. 
Attention! All NO& SMC Women. 
The Manor invites all of you to the Heideb u rg Inn this Fri at 9 :0 0 for "The Hall Party" Beer Music and Fun. Just hop on the Quickie. 
Saint Mary's College Sum mer Program in London May 20-June 
20. Travel in England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales," France. Co liege Credit Available. $865 plus t ui lion. call <84-4951. 
DARBYO'GILL T-SHIRTS on sale nowtobenefit UNICEF Call Bob at 3383, Greg at 3370, Steve or Dan at 3377 too rder yours TODAY! 
LOST AND FOUND Lost: quart thermus in the Library. Please call Norm 277­0130 
Found: Brc:mn puppy with black lace, ears; white paws. Tues. night near circle. Call 4680 
FOUND: One Football Ticket at Kubiak's. Call Chris 7258, Friday after 6:30, and Identify 
Help!! Lost one qold I. D. Brae elet, Initialed CAD. Please cia I 8093, Reward! Help! 
Lost: BrOIM1, tweed jacket. Call John 61116. 
Lost: Umbrella during . registrat bn at SIEipan Center. Call 8255. 
PERSONALS 

Congratulations Steve Dewey Weber on your new ac­complishment! Denny, how's your internal problem? 
D.B., Happy birthday.. You'll be cut­off at mi:l night Sat. Apenny. Sil.ier Vixin 
Sally, It's m Brush-off. But it is very wierd. Bill 
Tim in Pargborn, Why don't you two-time more 
often? N urn ber 2 
Mary Helen, 
There's nothing more that I can say butondays like today I'd pass the time away and I'd love to walk a quiet mile with you. 
Love, 
Robert Plant 

Sound finacial advice? Call AI Rutherford. Western Electric 
TO JUNGLE JAP: 
There  CJ1ce  was  a  "rooom ie"  
named  Bob.  
Being  an alkie's his job.  

His birthday'S on Monday But he'll pass out on Sunday. 
The guy'S an incredible slob. 
"ROOOM" 

Please return the mistakenly taken class ring from Cam pus View Apts. Reward. Call 277-0026 
Happy Birthday Grace Ha 11:­Celebratewith us Fri. Nov. 22, 9-_1 .. 
Scoop. 
As you embark on your last fling in life in the pursuit of happiness remember that today is no dif­ferent from any other day. 
Happy 22nd. Love , Ma Bell & Henless 
WANTED 

Need ride to Chicago. Wed. 11-27, will share expenses. Call Mike 3380 
Need ride to Detroit Tues. 26th will pay. Call 1132 
Need ride to Chicago Sunday Mornirg. Call Mary 4543. 
Need ride BAD Rochester, Min­neapolis or anywhere in South Central Minn. for Thanksgiving. Will pay. Jim 277-0107 
Need ride to Pittsburqh area for Thanksgiving. Will share driving and expenses. Call Mark 8732 
Need ride to Washin<]ton, D C. for Thanksg ivinq break Call t./1 i!rk 3462 
Need ride to NYC.(Thanksqiving) 
Will share cost. John 7289 
Need  4  qood  Doobie  Bros.  tix.  
George 277~0021.  
Need  two  people  for  five.pe rson  

house for nest semester. Ci!ll 2118­0144. 
Desperately need "4 GA Air Force tix CALL 6752 Becky 
Desperately 11eed ride to Mankato or Southern Minnesota area for two. Can leave Tuesday altern oon. 
Call Joe 234-8952 or Tom 1152. 
4 Good tickets to Doobie Bros. Concert will $$. Call 277-0785 anytime 
Two people need ride to Pitt for Tl\anksgivinq. Call Kit 6972. 
Looking for riders to New Jersey 
tor Thanksgiving break.  Leaving  
Tues., Nov. 26,  at 1p.m.  Call  Joe  
3302.  

Need ride to Chicago for Thanksgiving break on Tues. or Wed. W itf share expenses. Call Jim, 3312 
Ride needed to Boston Thanksgiving. Leave anytime Steve 1797 
Need 'ride to Pur clle Fri. Nov. 2? Call 4407 
FOR SALE 2 GA Air Force fix's. 50 yard I ine. Bob 3337 
4 GA tix 's to Air Force. Call 6829. 
2 GA Tickets for Air Force Call Joe 288-7946 
2 GA Air Force tixs for sale Call 8661 
Senior Southern Cal. Trip Ticket For Sale . Bill Principle 272-8879 
Fischer ski is, Geze bindings, poles, Raichle boots, used 3x 2J3. 8814 
69 Cufl ass, 58 thousand miles, 1 speed. Call 232~7268 before 5:0. After 5:00, ask for Diane at Roc co's 
Senior Southern Cal trip Pi!Cki!Qe for Sale. Call Rob C. 283-1779 
FOR RENT 

Very safe, convienent, 2 bedroocYI apartment to share with one girl for spring semester. $60 includ.!s utilities. 287-5587 or 282-1367. 
Furnished apts. 503 W. Jefferson Duplex 3 rooms each firs! and second floors. Gas heat, fur,lis hed. 
289-6307,234-0596 
Mi!rried Students: Nice, clean, furnished apartment. 3 ro)()rns and 
bath.  10  ·min  from  Cam pus  
available Dec.  12  $95 a  month.  
Call 234-1946  

Room.$40 month. Near Rides; Privacy. Kitchen. 233-1329 
1 B R Apartment in Crestwood. Appliances furnished. Noise, no problem, sublet through sum mer. 234-5320 
t 
• 
.• 
.. 
t 
• 
16 the observer Friday, November 22, 1974 
Irish leery of Air Force potential 
by Grl'g Corgan Rut the Falcons are not to be Sports Editor taken lightly. "Air Force uses almost every 
Four close ball games in a conceivable formation or align. season may cause Ara Parseghian menton both offense and defense," to contend with a few more ·gray explained Parseghian. "That's hairs, but an 8-1 record at least why it has been a tough mental helps keep them on top of his head. process getting ready. They play BPn Martin probably hasn't much like Navy and Rice on needed a haircut all year. defense and they throw the ball a 
Martin is Air Force's head lot (22.5 times per game). football coach. a post he has held That's because the Falcons have for the past 17 years. And without a double· barrelled, two-sided a doubt. this year has been the passing machine. Quarterbacks longest. Martin's Falcons are Mike Wordena and Rob Shaw have currently 2-8, hut add four touch-shared the signal-calling duties, downs and the Air Force is an and neither is afraid to put the ball Impressive 7-3. in the air. Worden, a lefthander, 
Tht' Falcons have lost seven ball has completed 51 of 100 passes for gamPs by a combined margin of 22 fi95 yards and two touchdowns, points including a 28-27 loss to while Shaw has connected on 37 of l'olorado. t2-!0to Brigham Young, 73 attempts for 430 yards and one 17-lti to Arm v. and last week a 27-24 touchdown. All in all the Falcons loss to Arizona on a touchdown have averaged 134 yards per game pass with II seconds left to play. If through the air. 1\1 art in isn't losing his hair The favorite targets have been naturally. h(•'s pulling it out. split end Rob Farr and tight end 
1f thP Irish have their way, the .John Covington. Farr has 28 situation won't improve any receptions for 429 yards and tomorrow afternoon when Notre Covington 15 for 195 yards. Damt' hosts the Air Force in the "They're willing to throw the ball, Falcons' final game of the '74 and they're capable o( throwing it N D's number one defensive unit gangs up here to stop Pitt's Tony Dorsett at the goal line. The Irish "D" season. The Irish hold a 4-0 record successfully," said Ara. ganged up all day long allowing the Panthers only 198 total yards, only 17 above their leading 181 average . 
in the short history of this in-Perhaps. the Air Force greatest 
linebacker, set a new record last The Irish offense is just as 10 receptions to move into thirdtPrsectional rivalry including a 48-weapon. however, is placekicker weekend when he added his 19th talented at gaining yardage as the place on the all-time Notre Dame15 win on Thanksgiving Day a year Dave Lawson. The junior kicker, field goal of the season in 30 at­defense is at preventing it. The list. 
ago. who doubles as a starting tempts. It was his 38th of his trouble seems to be scoring points. 
Greg Corgan::::::::=:::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:==========· career. and his 177 points will That problem may be further On the ground, Mark McLane undoubtedly help make him the compounded this weekend since and AI Samuel will join Clements Academy's most prolific scorer. fullback Wayne Bullock has along with fullback Tom Parise if This year he has hit on attempts of practiced sparingly all week and is Bullock is unable to see action. 
60 and 56 yards. listed as a doubtful starter. !<:ric Penick, Ron Goodman, Russ The Irish defense, number one in "Wayne is still bothered by an Kornman and a penitent Art Best
The Irish Eye 
the nation in yardage given up, ankle injury which just won't seem may also see considerable playing may have to yield even less to shut to heal." said Parseghian. "He time. out the Falcons. something that hasn't practiced, but Wayne The Falcon defense has only hasn't been done in 72 straight doesn't need the eonditioning and yielded an average of 293 total games. But the Notre Dame "D" he knows his assignments, so we'll yards although Air Force op­has come a long way since being just have to see what the doctors ponents have scored close to 18 With a few changes, tomorrow would have been one of the most redesigned in the Fall. ~ay tomorrow." 
point a game. Senior Rick McGraw grandiose Saturdays in college football history. 
"The coaching staff has done Bullock needs only 113 yards to and junior Ray Wild have been the 
As il is, the games this weekend constitute a veritable sports spec­an excellent job wtth the defensive becom(' Notre Dame's all-time mainstays. McGraw, a senior tacular. After all, Michigan-Ohio State, Oklahoma-Nebraska, UCLA­
unit." said Parseghian. We've had leading rusher for a single season, defensive end, had 13 tackles last USC, Pitt-Penn State, Harvard-Yale, Kansas-Missouri, and Indiana­players moved to new positions, and only 185 to become the first wt>ek against Arizona while rover Purdue do generate a little excitement. If the Auburn-Alabama, Notre Steve Niehaus is a classical hack in Notre Dame history to gain Wild had nine. The Falcons em­!>arne-Southern Cal, and Texas A&M-Texas games had been moved ('Xample, and the experience they 1000 yards in a season. ploy a 5-2, much like the Irish,ahead a week, there might be more people watching college football this have gained has helped im­"Wayne is one of the finest although Wild as a roverback,
Saturday afternoon than eating Turkey dinners on Thanksgiving. mensely. I'm pleased with the job running backs to ever represent doubles as a linebacker and At any rate, this weeks picks: 
our secondary has done, the front the University of Notre Dame," defensive back. 
:\ir Forcl' at Notre Dame: With or without Wayne Bullock the Irish are four has done, and of course with added Ara. "I can't say enough The Orange Bowl-bound Irish too much for Ben Martin's Falcons. With 28 more points the Air Force the linebackers. Greg Collins has about him." have only one remaining regular could be 7-3, but 2-9 will be more like it tomorrow. Notre Dame by 20. been a great leader for us. If If the Falcon defense is fortunate season game, that being against Peggy Lawlor: Notre Dame by 14. someone had told me at the Pnough not to have to cope with Southern Cal on November 30. 
Michigan at Ohio State: The Bucks aren't about to lose two this season. beginning of the season that we'd Bullock, they'll still have their The Irish hope to go into that The Wolverines have seemed stronger of late, but they have trouble on be leading the nation in defense, hands full. Quarterback Tom game with a 9-1 record and the road, and the Miami Dolphins would have trouble in Columbus. Ohio I'd be somewhat surprised, but the Clements is completing passes at a whether he can afford them or not, State by 10. Lawlor: Ohio State by 17. fact that we are is a tribute to our 57 per cent clip and his favorite Ara doesn't way any more gray 
l 1S(' at ttCLA: It doesn't really matter who's home team in this one. defensive team." target, Pete Demmerle needs only hairs. The game is in LA's Coliseum and the hometown fans shouldn't be disappointed, unless there's a tie. SC fans should be happier tomorrow, though, since a win will send them to the Rose Bowl. Trojans by 12. 
Irish icers journey North 
Lawlor: SC by 7. . . Yale at Harvard: The Eli's have a chance to achieve that ultimate goal, an undefeated season. But when Yale and Harvard get together, previous records go out the window. In this dogfight, from here, it's Yale 
to battle Fighting Sioux 
by 3. Lawlor: Harvard by 3. 
by Bob Kissel Irish take the ice against Michigan Bourque and Jack Brownschidlel'l'nn State at Pittsburgh: With Bill Daniels at the helm, the Panthers State <awayl, Michigan <home), are paired, while Dave Bossy andwould have more than an even chance. But Daniels is out and Bob Lefty Smith is thankful this Michigan Tech <home), Boston either Dick Howe or Dan ByersMedwid will be his replacement. Medwid did a good job last week against weekend's away series with North College <awayl, and Harvard will form the third defensive unit. 
the Irish. but he may not be enough against Penn State. Sentiments lie Dakota is in November. Last <awayl, in addition to North Smith hopes the realignments willwith the Panthers and a win would be nice for the home fans. Besides, it season the Irish played the Dakota this Friday and Saturday. give him a good balance onwould show the Liberty Bowl people where to go. But, Penn State by 6. 
Fighting Sioux in February and the "Though all games are big defense, both in the physical game Lawlor: Pitt by 7. 
'warm spelt' at high noon was 31 games for us, the season is very and the defensive rush. 
Indiana at Purdue: This battle for the Old Oaken Bucket is typically degrees below zero. long," explained Smith. "My Len Moher will start in goal
brutal and frequently bloody. This year both teams are typically bad, Notre Dame brings a 2-4 WCHA objectives for the season are to Friday night, hoping to improve on especially the Hoosiers. At Purdue, the Boilermakers by 7. Lawlor: record to Grand Forks, having make the playoffs and to have our his 2.5 goals against average. John Indiana by one. split with Wisconsin <away) and game all together at playoff time." Peterson probably will be in the 
Kansas at Missouri: This annual Tiger-Jayhawk battle is always fun to Denver <home), while being swept Despite the disastrous 7-4loss to nets Saturday night, also looking to watch although it never means too much, unless you're from Kansas or at home by Colorado College. NO's Denver last Sunday, when lower his 4.0 goals against record. Missouri. Missouri by 3. Lawlor: Kansas by 11. record puts them in seventh place, everything seemed to go wrong, "North Dakota is a very quick 
Northwestern at Illinois: The Illini want a winning season and a vic­just six points behind league­Lefty Smith has not made any skating team whose forwards like tory here will assure it. Northwestern is never much competition for leading Michigan State and drastic changes. He has the to buzz a lot," commented Smith. anyone and should loose handily. Illinois by 14. Lawlor: Illinois by 7. Colorado College. balance he wants, but those silly "They tend to dump the puck into 
"I believe we have outplayed mistakes have made the difference 
Tl'nnessee at Kentucky: The Vols have Condredge Holloway back and the offensive zone and run after it, 
every one of our four opponents," between win or lose. trying to beat the defense to thethe Wildcats are minus Sonny Collins. The winner here goes to the remarked Coach Smith, "but our Up front Smith will keep Pat corners."
Liberty Bowl to face Maryland on Dec. 16. Kentucky clobbered Florida losses have not been from lack of Conroy's line together with wings "With a good skating club likelast week and that's no small chore so the Wildcats could do it tomorrow. 
enthusiasm or effort. Those few Kevin Nugent and Don Jackson; the Sioux, we must react veryKentucky by 6. Lawlor: Tennessee by 10. 
silly mistakes have hurt us." Brian Walsh will center for Alex quickly," noted former bluelinerIowa at Michigan State: The Spartans are aiming at 7-3-1 with this one "Before the season started Pirus and Clark Hamilton; Mark Lefty Smith. "North Dakota hasand theyss shouldn't blow it. MSU by 10. Lawlor: MSU by 20. 
everyone connected with the team Olive pivots between scooters traditionally not been a defensive,Tulanl' at LSU: This Bayou battle is between two disappointing teams. 
wondered how good we would be," Allen Karsnia and Tim Byers; physical team. If we can clear the The Green Wave is 5-4 while LSU is suffering the worst season in its added Smith. "From what I see in Geoff Collier comes off the injured zone quickly and turn the play on
recent history at 3-5-1. Tomorrow's game is a tossup, the Bengals look a practice, but so far not completely list to handle the faceoff duties for up, we're going to be right in thebit stronger. LSU by 10. Lawlor: fulane by 1. in games, this is a club that can Pat Novitski and Dave Howe. games."Minnesota at Wisconsin: The Golden Gophers and the Badgers in this skate with anyone in the league." Lefty has made a couple of 
Though the Fighting Sioux have 
Big Ten finale don't have much at stake, except a little respectability The next five weekend series for changes at the blueline to better a 1-5 WCHA record (9th in the perhaps. Wisconsin should win by 17. Lawlor: Wisconsin by 20. Notre Dame will feature some of balance his offense minded standings l, the Irish cannot afford the best competition in the coun­defensemen. Paul Clarke will now
(continued on page 15) 
(continued on page 15)
try. In successive weekends the skate with Les Larson, Roger 





