------~·----------------· ---~--------~----------------------------------------------~ 
OD The Inside 
Coal-miners .• page 3 Food CommiHee ... page 4 




serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 47 Wednesday, November 13, 1974 
On SLC's sex rule 

Reactions vary 
by Matt Yokom 
Staff Reporter 
"The Student Life Council's new sexuality rule didn't do a great deal to resolve the 
problem" Dr. Robert Ackerman, director of staff development, said yesterday in reaction 
to the new university sex rule. 
"I don't think we fulfillled Fr. Hesburgh's pomt that he made in the letter," said Acker­man referring to a letter which accompanied the University President's last veto of a SLC sexual nlle. Ackerman, an administration representative on the SLC, asserted, "Fr. Hesburgh wanted it specific." 
Ackerman's objections were typical of reaction to the SLC's new sexuality rule passed last Monday. Also typical,despite the appare,nt dissatisfaction, was the conclusion that the new rule was an improvement over earlier proposals. 
"The thing I think the rule does is that it speaks with some compassion," Ackerman concluded. 
The new code rule 6 states "Any sexual misconduct that is flagrant, perverse, or repeated after p~evious :.Varning or any sexual abuse of another person through coercion and-or violence, may result in suspension or expulsion." 
Ackerman who voted in favor of the proposal interpreted 'perverse' as something that ''gets into abnormal sexuality such as prostitution, exhibitionism, etc." Ackerman also stated "Some mistakes are intolerable while others can be handled." 
Ref~rring to part three of the proposed revision, Ackerman said, "I would like to say to the rectors that if the rule is accepted, they don't have to refer all cases to the Dean of Students, but they should keep in touch. . 
Management Professor, William Sexton, also a SLC member agreed wtth Ackerman, stating "We have formally stated or concern with com_Passion." He observed the_rule w~uld decentralize the handling of misconduct. "Every mstance need not be the rmmedtate concern of the Dean of Students; rather it could be handled by the rector of the hall," Sexton said. 
The proposal would provide for cooose~ling as ~e basic approa.ch, Sexton noted; "'~he rule also distinguished between the relative seventy of sexual misconduct. I don t thmk cohabitation is on the same level as violence or coercion," Sexton said. 
Citing the qualification of "flagrant" in rule 6, Sexton sug~est~~ it implied "con­spicuousness and the potential impact on the climate of a hall, makmg It tmposstble for self-development within a Christian Comn;mnity ." . . . . . . 
"If conspicuousness changes the attitudes of a hall, the h.all ts. JUStified m gomg to ~he 
Dean of Students," concurred fellow SLC member, MicrobiOlogy Professor Juhan 
Leasnats. He stated, "If the staffis not going to get the students thrown out of school, the 
students will be more willing to deal with the hall." 

Ackerman: I don't think we fulfilled Fr. Hesburgh's point that he made in the leHer. Fr. Hesburgh wanted it specific. The thing I think the rule does is that it speaks with some compassion. 
Pleasants stated, however, a better definition of "misconduct" was needed. 
Fr. Thomas McNally, Rector of Grace Hall, said "I don't know if the new rule will ever go 
nto effect. If it does, it will make more important the role of the rector and the hall staff in 
~ases where sexual misconduct is discovered." McNally asserted "This would be an im­
provement, because the rector and hall staff are often in the best position to determine the 
gravity of an offence." 
McNally said his only fear is that students will regard the rector and staff simply as 
"cops" and not seek them out for counselling when counselling is clearly needed." 
"As to the wording of rule 6, I agree with members of the SLC that the wording is 
something less than crystal clear," the rector continued. "'Flagrant' and 'perverse' are 
words which may mean one thing to you, another thing to me, and a third thing to the Dean 
of Students," McNally said. "I would like to see them clarified." 
"As SLC members can testify," McNally stated, "writing rules on sexualtiy is risky 
business. In worrying about definitions, once can overloolfwhatis actually more important; 
the statement which calls on members of the University community to develp attitudes 
toward human sexualtiy that are authentically Christian, and avoid relationships which are 
shallow and exploitative." 
McNally, who also serves as associate director of Campus Ministry, concluded, "such 
attitudes are much more important and challenging thant simply avoiding what could be 
'flagrant' and 'perverse'." 
Wendy Duffy, Walsh Hall President, stating the rule is too vague, wondered "what is 
'perverse and how many times is repeated." 
Although Duffy discounted the possibility of operating under no rules at all, "because this 
is a Catholic University," she called the new rules impractical. "If a rule is too vague, 
there is too much personal opinion and if it is too specific, it's a farce," Duffy stated. 
"It will accomplish nothing" Duffy said. 
Dillon Hall President Elton Johnson accepted the position of the University on ·premarital 
sex as a basic stand of the university but said, "it is impossible to enforce." 
"People caught would look like unfortunate victims," Johnson said. Johnson also called 
rule six too vague stating "perverse can be widely interpreted." Despite his objections, 
Johnson said the proposal "Is better, but not exaclty what we want." 
Although Student Body President Pat McLaughlin "could not vote in conscience for it, because it was too vague." He said the changes were an "improvement." Ivan Brown, Holy Cross Hall President said the rule was not "real change." "I thought there'd be something a little more liberal," Brown stated. 
Misunderstanding 
plagues SMC tix; 
prices remain $28 
by Thomas O'Neil Staff Reporter 
Commenting on the present student reaction to the price of SMC basketball tickets, Fr. Edmund Joyce, University Executive Vice­President, referred to his compromise talks with SBP Pat McLaughlin over the basketball ticket issue, and said, "I had assumed we were only discussing the price of basketball tickets for Notre Dame students." 
McLaughlin, however, made a different assumption during this discussion of possible compromises: "I assumed when we were talking about the compromise with everyone in the bleachers for the season price of $21, and were including the St. Mary's students," McLaughlin said. "I assumed they were included in the other compromises as well." 
This misunderstanding led to the disclosure which surprised many St. Mary's students. Many who expected to purchase the season ticket with $18 found themselves paying $28. Fr. Joyce commneted; "There has always been a pricing difference between the schools. Now this comes as a complete shcok to me, that the St. Mary's students are so upset." 
"It is really an unfortunate situation," McLaughlin commented. "But now it is out of my hands. It has become the responsibility of St. Mary's student governemnt and Student Affairs, and they must try to work with Notre Dame and to come to a mutual understanding with our ad­ministration." 
"We will be available to help them any way we can," he added. 
Ticket Plans Compared 
Joyce explained that last year St. Mary's students paid $19.50 to see thirteen games from the bleacher seats. The price of a bleacher seat for one game was $2, so the St. Mary's students who purchased the season tickets paid $1.50 a game and were paying 25 per cent less than the usual price of a bleacher ticket. 
This year, however, the price of an individual bleacher seat was raised to $3. There will be 14 basketball games this year, instead oflastyear's 13 games, and the price of a season tikcet for a St. Mary's student has been raised from last year's $19.50 to $28. 
In view of this increase in price for a bleacher seat, Joyce asserted that St. Mary's students will still only be paying two-thirds of the price of a regular bleacher seat. 
Tickets Selling Slowly 
Fr. Joyce observed the slow pace at which the tickets are being pur­chased by both ND and SMC students. It is really premature to attempt to say anything about this," he commented. 
"I imagine thestudentsreturned from the break with less money than before," Joyce said. The tickets have been on sale since November 4 and will continue to be sold until they are sold out or until Don Bouffard, ACC ticket manager sets a definite deadlineforbuying them. 
The basketball ticket controversy began the week of October 6 when the ACC announced a 100 per cent increase in the price of season basketball tickets for Notre Dame and St. Mary'sstudents. 
Bouffard explained the price increase when interviewed, saying, "This is the seventh basketball season in the ACC. During these years costs have risen steadily, yet until now ticket prices have never been raised. In order to meet our rising costs, we must have somefinancial support from the students." 
The students reacted hostily to the increase and proposed to boycott buying the tickets. Before the boycott actualized, SBP McLaughlin met with Joyce to draft an acceptable compromise. 
Joyce proposed four compromises to McLaughlin in October. They were published in The Observer the following afternoon and McLaughlin organized a referendum to be conducted in the Dining Halls at dinner to solicit student opinion. A compromise was reached soon afterwards. 
The issue was prolonged and complicated by the recent disclosure that SMC students must pay more for their season tickets. Joyce, however, explained that this has the customary procedure, and that they are getting a deduction from the usual cost, and by an increased percentage over last year. 

Joyce: I had assumed we were only discussing the price of basketball tickets for Notre Dame students. There has always been a pricing difference between the schools. 

..---------------------~-------~-----------­
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -President Ford Tuesday removed the administration's highest rating black woman, Barbara Watson, who has headed the State Department's Bureau of Security and Consular Affairs since 1968. . 
The action against Miss Watson, effective Dec. 31, was certam to sour relations between Ford and civil rights leaders, including the congressional Black Caucus. A target of repeated ouster efforts during the Nixon adminiatration, she had become a cause celebre among black political leaders. 
llNITED NATIONS <UPI> -South Africa was ousted ~rom the current session of the U.N. General Assembly Tuesday mght by a 91-22 vote of the Assembly despite a vigorous protest by the United States. 
IIOllSTON <UPll -Ronald Clark O'Bryan Tuesday pleaded in­nocent to a charge he murdered his 8-year-old son, Timothy, by mixing cyanide in his Halloween candy. 
EUlORADO SPRINGS, MO. <UPI> -Dr. R. Bernard Finch, ":'ho 
with his pretty receptionist Carole Trego££ was convicted of slaymg 
his estranged wife in a celebrated 1959 Calif~rnia ~urder case, was 
granted a medical license Tuesday by the M1ssoun Su~reme _Cou~t. 
Finch, once-wealthy surgeon who serv~d 12 years m Cabforma 
prisons, won his final I~gal battl~ agams~ the st~te B~ard of 
Registration for the Healmg Arts with the high cour~ s rulm~ that 
he had been unfairly denied a license to renew his practice of 
medicine. 

CIIAHLESTON, w. VA. <UPI> -Buses were shot at, a school was 
closed by pickets and children were kept home by frightened 
parents Tuesday in spreading unrest spawned by a ban-the-books 
crusade led by fundamentalist ministers. 
Thirty Kanawha County school bus drivers refused to operate 
their buses, saying they were "scared to death." 

an campus t:aday 
. 11:30 am-1pm .. phone directory for off-campus students Iafortune 
lobby Informal discussion with two policemen protection from oc 
burglaries Iafortune 

12:15 pm --seminar, "polynucleotldes, polymerases, and poland" by dr. robt. j. erickson, molecular blo dept. at miles laboratory room 102 lobund lab, galvin life center coffee and sandwiches room 109, 11 :45 am. 
3:25pm .. Lecture, "more oil from known fields" by t.m. geffen, room 269, chem engineering dept. 
3:30pm--seminar, "heat stress: an engineering-osha concern" by dr. thomas culllnane, room 303, eng. bldg. 
3:30pm--college council, college of eng. college council, room 206, cce. 
4:30 pm --colloquium, "electric field echoesz and storage In plezeolectrlc semiconductors" by dr. r.m. melcher, room 118, nleuwland coffee at 4:15. 
5pm --evening song vespers, log chapel 
6:30pm--sailing club meeting eng. bldg. room 204 
Bpm --lecture, prof. hans morganthau, lib. audit. 
8pm --lecture, "the concept of morally right" by richard brandt, galvin life science audt. 
8 pm --discussion, pres. ford's economic policy, room 231 ar­chitecture bldg. 
8:15pm--recital, organ recital, scott wilson, sacred heart church. 
10 pm --prollfe meeting for all Interested, stanford-keenan lobby 
llpm --south quad liturgy, holy cross chapel. 
FIRST BANK & TRUST TRAVEL 
"ON CAMPUS" -BADIN HALL 
*SPEGAL XMAS GROUP RATE TO LOS ANGELES AVAILABLE t*CJW -CALL GREG ERICKSON 3687 -AIRLINE RESERVATIONS -COMPLETE DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN SERVICES -REPRESENTATIVE FOR ALL AIRUNES -NO ADDinONAL COSI' 
• PHONE: 283-7080 
New hs't. Dean 



McCabe addresses HPC 
by Bob Radziewicz Staff Reporter 

Explaining her role as new Assistant Dean of Students, Mary McCabe addressed the Hall Presidents' Meeting last night and outlined her approach to the education syndrome. 
McCabe told the HPC that her office is attempting to provide the Notre Dame student community with the perspectives of self­awareness, self-discipline and self­initiative. 
"I am trying to coordinate a hall­based educational program of self­developemrit," the assistant dean explained. "Our contact point with the student is outside the classroom," McCabe added. 
The channels and resources, whatever they may be, to assist the student in deciding the best way to profit from the four years at Notre Dame are readily available through her office at Student Af­fairs, she noted. 
McCabe, who has been a grad student here for seven years, regularly drops by Darby's Place on week nights. 
Plans for a "battle of the par­ties" was announced by Kevin Saddler from the Student Union Social Commission before the council last night. The event, tentatively scheduled for the first weekend in December, would be a contest between the North and South quads, to see which could run a better party. 
Saddler explained that the halls would be divided between the quads, each getting Stepan Center for one night. Judges would award monetary prizes to those halls who collectively threw the best party. 
Bob Howl, HPC chairman, cited this type of activity as being conducive to "improving the social 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame •nd St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame. 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

secne among -the halls and providing a cooperative, yet competitive situation for the Notre Dame student community." Howl urged all presidents to discuss plans for hall participation among their fellow residents. 
A mass to be offered for the world's hungry on Tuesday, Nov. 26, was announced by Cel Prinster, Badin Hall president. The religious service, to be celebrated by Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, is part
o: an observance program by a Coalition Against Hunger, made up of Notre Dame and :south Bend community service groups. 
A special "rice and tea" is also being considered, with the money saved from a regular dining hall meal to be donated for the hunger coalition. 
The final announcement of the night was by Bill McLean, student ombudsman, who said the "Quickie" bus service will be in operation this weekend. The single route will provide transportation as far noth as Portofino Restaurant in Niles, Michigan. 
Library hours extended during break 
Alterations were recently completed in the Memorial Library which enabled it to extend hours during the mid-semester break. Because of budgetary limitations, the library in the past had closed on evenings and Sundays during periods when classes were not in session. 
To meet needs expressed by the Advanced Student Affairs Com­mittee, doors which could be locked were installed at the en­trances to the Reference and Bibliography Department on the first floor and the College Library on the second floor. This change made possible the closing of the 
* 
"Amahl & the Night Visitors" is a Jt colorfully staged and costumed mu­! sical classic with an appeal to all ;: people, young and old alike. This is

* 
the first professional production ever

* 
to be performed in the area. There

* 
will be two performances only and

* 
tickets are limited. we suggest you! purchase your tickets early. 


..­

* 
Performances:


* 
Morris Civic Auditorium Jt Friday, December 6 (8 p.m.)'!!:: Saturday (matinee) Dec. 7 (3:30p.m.) 


...­

first and second floors and per­mitted access to floors four through thirteen. 
Full service including lending was available from 8:00 a.m. to 
5:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday during the break period. The new limited service was available 5:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. Sunday. These extended hours will be in effect during all future recess periods of th~ Univer~_it_v_.---. 
THINK ... CQ.LEGE LIFE 

INSURANCE CO. OF AMERICA 
ARE YOU A DOMER IN DISTRESS WITHOOT WHEELS? When In Need Of A Quick Getaway, 
Call Lois At 

JORDAN FORD 
259-1981 
STUDENT RATES: Rent A PINTO For Just 
$ 6/Day & 6 ~!Mile (MIN. AGE 21) 
609 E. JeHerson, Mishawaka 
JORDAN 




FORD 


*****************************************************~ 
: : 
: Experience the spirit of Christmas 1 1 as newr before. : * * 
i * * amahl * ~ * 
: &the :
* * 
: night : : "~ visitors 1
*• *
* •
* * 
: * A special presentation of the South Bend Symphony Orchestra *: 
Tickets: Friday Saturday * Reserved : seats $5.50 &4.00 $4.50 &3.00 * General * Admission $3.00 $2.00 * For reservations and ticket informa-* 
tion, phone the Morris Civic Audito-** rium box office at 232-6954. Tickets ! may be ordered by mail by sending ..­a check or money order and a self-* addressed, stamped envelope to: : Morris Civic Auditorium, South Jt Bend, IN 46601. ! ..­
L--------------------------------------•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••..•••••••••.....•..••* 



Wednesday, November 13, 1974 
Thrif-T -IVbrt least expensive 
InPIRG grocery survey release 
by Paul Young most frequented by off-campus $40.45 at Kroger <Ireland Rd.) for Staff Reporter students. The survey cites a 2.4 items that might be purchased at per cent difference in prices Thrif-T-Mart <U.S. 31 
An InPIRG grocery pricing between the two stores. $39.11. The remaining surveyed survey of the week Oct. 21 to Oct. ·Operating on a computer set stores were Thrif-T-Mart <Ireland 27 revealed Thrif-T-Mart on U.S. 31 purchase of foodstuffs which would Rd.), at $39.51, Wilt's and Kroger of Ireland Rd. as on the average of the seven stores Rd.) at $39.97 Martin's at $40.13, respectively the least and most amount to $40, the survey in­Kroger <State rd. 23) at $40.37 and expensive of the 7 grocery stores dicated the consumer must pay A&P which was not listed due to 
insufficinet comparison items but fell somewhere in the middle of the price ranking. 
A categorical breakdown of food items among the stores revealed it cheaper to buy items separatley than all in one store. categories surveyed meats, cereals, and bakery, fruits and vegetables and a category of other foods <including coffee, tea, sugar, salt, chocolate syrup, eggs and other items.) 
On the purchase of amounts of food designed simulate a normal $40 expenditure for a fmily of 3 to 4, Thrif-T-Mart 
(31) proved the best buy on meat and Martin's the worst with $1.14 difference between them. closest competitor was Mart <Ireland Rd.) which was 36 cents higher in price for the same amount of meat. 
For cereals and bakery items, Thrif-T-Mart <Ireland Rd.) proved the most economical place to shop while Kroger's Oreland Rd.) 
How often have you walked by this fragment of iron fencing? 
Remember where it is? Any idea what was the past use of the land 
proved the least economical. A 19 

11 for a clue. (Photo by Jim Newkirk)
cent difference in price separated 
the two. Under dairy products Thrif-T­

RA applications available
Mart (31) again offered the lowest 
prices while Kroger (Ireland Rd.) offered the highest of the 7 by Mike Hellinghousen responsibility. markets. A savings of 64 cents Staff Reporter The completed application must existed between the two. contain three recommendations. 
Martin's was revealed as the Applications for Resident The applicant must obtain one place to shop for fruits and Assistants for the 1975-76 academic recommendation from a faculty vegetables by the survey and year opened Nov. 4. All interested member, one from his or her Wilt's as the place to avoid, a 70 and eligible persons should pick up rector, and one from a classmate cent difference marking the two. applications in the Office of or R.A. The nearest competitor to Martin's Student Affairs by Dec. 15. The Personal interviews with ap­in price was Kroger's <St. Rd. 23) deadline for the· return of the plicants will begin Jan. 15, 1975. at nine cents more on the compl~ted applications is Dec. 20, Students should call the Student average. 1974. Affairs Office at that time for an 
Under Other Foods, Wilt's An applicant for nomination as appointment for an interview. All <Ironwood) was on top by 46 cents Resident Assistant must be a interviews will be completed by over least economical Thrif-T-senior or graduate student during March, 1975. M~r! <I~eland). The nearest. ~o the 1975-76 academic year, have at Final selections of Resident Wilt s pnce proved to be Martm s least a 3.0 cumulative grade Assistants will be made by May 1, at a cost of 29 cents more. average and have no additional job 1975. 
Project coordinator of the InPIRG ************************************ 
grocery pricing survey, Blaise * * 
Mercadante, announced upon the * survey's release that it will be T0 N I GH T I * 
continued on a bi-weekly basis. He • * also stated that 5 new stores· will ~ be added to the subsequent sur-* veys. The next surveys will in-* elude K-Mart <Lincoln Way West), * Van Buren's, Thrif-T-Mart * <Hickory), National Foodstore and ~ Cira's. * The next survey, concluded * Mercadante,will be intwo weeks * and the results will be published * the following week. * 
The six InPIRG members in-* volved in the . survey work were Frank Piccione, Leon Locasto, Tim Connell, John Aydrinian, Mercadante and John Wilmes, who devised the computer program which analyzed the survey results. 

~.. ., ...i1inliniiiiiiiiiiiiii1iiiiiiiiiiniiriliiiiiilr.---------.. 
I LIFE & TIMES OF I I JUDGE ROY BEAN I
I I


I Wednesday Nov. 13th I 1, 9, & 11 p.m.
I 
1 Engineering Aud. I 
~------~JU~li~~JJ~2Q______J 
Co-ex program discussed 
Food Service Advisory Committe meets 
by Norman Bower The meeting, held in a South statistics from Edmund Price, The rotation of the exchange deserves the same supper at 5:01 Staff Reporter Dining Hall office, was the fourth director of the Notre Dame food tickets is such that a dorm receives and at 6:29, but does not receive it. such student-food staff get­service, North Quad residents, them once every three days. Price observed that although the Dining hall co-exchange, menu together of the year. with 55 tickets available, have, at Tickets are available from cafeteria lines run out of food from adjustments and a critical Ob­The group has implemented a most, used 28 in one noon hour. students on the advisory com­time to time, often it is only a server essay were among the two-week trial basis for alunch­Similarly, of the 44 tickets mittee. matter.of waiting while the food is 
issues discussed at last Friday's time co-exchange progi'am available to people on the South prepared. He said that the staff
The committee is also working
meeting of the Food Service Ad­between the North and South Quad, the largest number utilized "isn't perfect" at its job of 
on the form for a survey to be
Dining Halls.. According to was 18. determining the necessary number 
visory Committee. 

I wt"nt to tht" Nazz for the first time this week end and I was realy im11n•sst"d by it. The reason that this was my first time was that I usually have a lot planned for the weekend. I was just thinking that it would bt" just grt"at if the Nazz could be open during the week. Do you know who I could talk to about my idea and the chances of its 
SIU'l't"SS'! 

Your idea is great and its chances for success are 100 percent. The only flaw is that you weren't the first one with the idea. The Nazz will be open tonight from 10 to midnight. 
llow long has the "Quickie" been in operation and who provides the funds for it? 
So far the "Quickie" has been in operation three times, on Sep­tember 27, October 18, and November 8, and it is scheduled to be in operation this Friday also. Ideally the "Quickie" is to be self­supporting, but on the first two attempts it took losses, however on the third time around it broke even. With nights like that of November 8 continuation of the "Quickie" is almost certain. 
I 

My roommate has this exam schedule and it has the exam for one of my classes listed for a time that is not the time that my teacher said that it would be. He claims that I heard my prof. incorrectly and I say that he has last year's exam schedule. Could you tell us which one of us is correct? 
If your roommate picked up his exam schedule up at the Registrar's Office just recently you both are most likely wrong to an extent. Those schedules in the Registrar's Office were printed last spring, but they were meant for this semester. However, over the course of the semester there have been some changes in the exam schedule and your professor was giving you the revised time. A schedule with all the revised times is on the bulletin board of the Registrar's Office for reference if you have nay further problems with your exam schedule and if it fails to sove your problem you can ask the informaton desk to clarify thing for you, or call7043. 
NTE: The Ombudsman Service is willing and able to solve the problems of the Notre Dame community. Just call us weekdays 9::10 to 5:00 and Monday through Thursday evenings 10:00 to midnight; just call 7638. 
Sets goal of 5,000 
conducted soon in both dining halls 
of portions and that both un­
to determine entree preferences 
derestimation and overestimation
Phelps speaks at among students. During an Ob­create problems.server interview Monday, Price said that the findings of the study Students on the committee
Zahm about ND pointed out the recurring problem 
would be used to alter menus 
of food temperature not beingby Jay Russell and John Hennessy accordingly. 
maintained. Price explained thatStaff Reporter 
In referring to Friday's Ob­there are staff members carrying server column which cited in­thermometers who are supposed to stances of the food service's make sure of the correct tem­neglect of students, Price said that peratures. "The word has gone out there was "exaggeration" and to managers," he said, "that this even some incorrect information. duty is to be performed with The essay alleged that no regularity." provisions were made for students Price mentioned that all signed requiring special diets, but Price criticisms of the food system are noted that the infirmary works answered. He expressed a with the food service to provide willingness to meet with all such students with necessary diets, students, as he has done in the at no extra cost. dorms and in the dining halls. He 
Another point dealt with was a called the advisory council's complaint about the cafeteria student representatives "an ac­running out of main courses before curate sounding board for the closing time. It was stated that whole student body, not just a few theoretically each student select students." 
Study Helpsponsors raffle 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program hopes to reach a goal of $5000 in the sale of raffle tickets for a color TV and pocket calculator by the end of this week. Tim Meinken, chairman of the raffle, expressed dismay with present sales which amount to $2000. 
The proceeds of the raffle, which ends Saturday, will be used to defray the cost of bussing tutors to the various schools and to main­tain custodial fees, according to Meinken. 
Federal funds under Title I were cut back from the city of South Bend this year. As a result, 'the Neighborhood Study H~lp Program lost financial suppol't Free Beveragesfrom the city, Meinken said. 
The program, sponsoring SUO tutors, has organized other ac­tivities to cover expenses besid~ 10:00 Green Mountain Flyersthe raffle. A movie is scheduled to run next semester. Student government has also contributed funds to the program. 11:00 Dave Shaheen 
Tickets will be sold in front of the South Dining Hall Tuesday during lucnll and in front of the North Dining Hall Wednesday during dinner. Members of the program will also be selling tickets on Saturday on the quad before the game. 
Each raffle ticket is $1.00. The winner will be announced next Monday. 
Wednesday, November 13, 1974 ---=-t~hc..::e::..__:o:c:b=-=s--=e:...:r:...:v"----=e..:..r_____.:S:::.... 
Registration to begin Thursday 
---· by Mary Reher Staff Reporter 
--
Registration will begin Thurs­sday, November 14, as seniors and graduate students receive pre­punched computer class cards from their departments. Juniors may register Friday, November 
15. Instructions on registering and form 50's are being mailed to juniors, seniors and graduate students this week. 
Sophomores will register Monday through Thursday next week, following alphabetic name divisions. Students with names beginning with L-R are assigned to November 18, those with E-K register November 19, those with A-D register November 20, and those with S-Z register November 21. 
Richard J. Thompson, Assistant Dean of Arts and Letters, said yesterday afternoon that form 50's for sophomores won't be mailed out until this Friday. 
Assistant Deans of Arts and representative instructing them on Letters Thompson and Robert registration procedures. Waddick held a group counseling 
A survey of course selection session for sophomores yesterday booklets for the fall and springat 4:20 p.m. in Room 204 semesters revealed that most O'Shaughnessy to answer departments have increased the registration questions. Another number of courses offered. For meeting in the same room will be example, the number of different held this afternoon at the same courses offered in the Art time for other interested Department increased from 33 to sophomores in the College of Arts 36, in the English Departmentand Letters. 
from 52 to 63, in the PsychologyThis week freshmen will receive Department from 45 to 52, in the a newsletter from a hall Accounting Department from 9 to 
13, in the Biology Department from 38 to 44 and in the Math Depart­
''Quickie''continues operations 
ment from 44 to 51. 
Other departments increasing course variety are the History
for the fourth weekend Friday 
Department, the Management 
by Fred Herbst Staff Reporter 

The Quickie Shuttle Service enters its fourth weekend of operation this Friday with Om­budsman Special projects and Service Officer Charlie Moran "optimistic" about the future of the "Quickie." 
Leaving the Circle on Friday night at 8:30, 9:00, 9:30, 10:00, 11:00, 12:00, 12:30 1:00, and 1:30, the "Quickie" stops at the Boar's Head, Denny's, Village Inn, Jay's Lounge, Portofino's, Heidelberg Inn, Shula's and Kubiak's. 
Moran noted that as a service to the Saint Mary's community, the "Quickie" will stop at Holy Cross Hall on the Saint Mary's campus on each run. 
For unlimited use of the 
"Quickie", the cost is 75 cents. The 
fare for a one-way trip is 50 cents. 
Elaborating on the cost of a ride on the bus, Moran stated "The Quickie Shuttle Service is not out to make monev. The fares are 
by Mary Janca Staff Reporter 

In order to extend the present male visitation hours at St. Mary's, a survey will be sent to a random sample of students, ad­ministration, faculty, staff and alumni, said Hall Life Com­missioner Martie Kabbes . 
This survey, discussed at last night's Hall Life Commission meeting, is designed to determine the feasibility of extending the visitation hours from 10 p.m. until midnight on Friday and Saturday 
ni~hts. 
Kabbes said questions on the survey are multiple choice and include the individual's relationship to the college and attitudes on dorm life. 
R.A. 's will distribute and collect the surveys to insure that a majority of them will be com­
'"~MtJ.Il ~T
JO! S MI(H

~•• 288·780(". 
STARTS 
FRIDAY! 

tXXYYX'TXTXX'XXYXIX' 
Th~?riaJ. 

BillY Jack 
stamno DELORES TAYLOR 
IPGj 
'""TOM LAUGHLIN 

tXXXXXXXXXXiXXXXXXXJ EVERY EVE. AT 8:00 
designed to be just enough to cover the cost of running the buses and no more." 
"We hope to provide an economical means for students to fulfill their desire to have a good time without the fear of breaking the law and the danger of automobile accidents" said Moran. 
In the previous three weekends of service, the operation of the "Quickie" has gone smoothly without any reports of ·disturbances or excessive rowdiness by students. 
Moran asked for the help of students saying "stewards are on the bus to give change, but we would ask students to cooperate by having the correct change or as near to it as possible." 
Student acceptance of the Ser­vice was desc::ibed by Moran, saying, "The people who have taken advantage of the 'Quickie' seem very pleased with the ser­Department, the Business Ad­vice provided". ministration Department, and the 
Anthropology Department. 
Moran also stated, "We at the There is a slight decrease in the Ombudsman Service would like to number of different courses of­thank the Notre Dame and Saint fered in the Philosophy Depart­Mary's Social Commissions for ment, the Music Department, The their financial and personnel Theology Department, the Finance assistance." Department, and the Marketing 
Department. 
Commenting on the Quickie In answer to the few decreases in 
course variety, Dean Vincent 
Raymond of the College of 
Business Administration said 
"The fact that we must offe; 
requirements of the Accreditation 
Association means that we must 
put our emphasis on required 
courses. The increased population 
within the College of Business 
<which is at its highest peak in the 
history of its career) and the 
emphasis on required courses 
precludes us from offering as 
many electives as we would like to. 
Raymond added, "It is a general policy within our college that electives will be offered at least every other semester. On oc­casion, however, they may be offered every third semester." 
"The College of Business will not offer anything less than what it has been offering," he noted. 
Regarding student interest in varied courses, Raymond ob­served, "Students now have multiple interests, which is wonderful. The students of today want to dabble in many different areas." 

SMC visitation surveydistributed 
THE WINERY 
2426 LINCOLNWAV WEST-MISHAWAKA, INDIANA TELEPHONE ~ 
All the Finest European Cheeses Gift Boxes of Cheeses & Fancy Foods Oriental Cooking Ingredients 10 % Cheese & Fancy Food ... Discount to Faculty & Students French Bread & Croissants New York Cheesecake Greek Olives 

pleted, Kabbes said. 
Last year, she noted that less that 5o per cent returned a survey on extending visitation hours to include Friday and Saturday nights. As a result, the Board of Regents did not consider it a valid representation of opinion and passage of the proposal was hin­dered. 
Survey results are expected to be tallied by January in order that a proposal concerning the possible extension of parietals may be presented to the Board of Regents that month, she said. 
Kabbes also announced that residents of Holy Cross, Regina Shuttle Service Deputy Director of Ombudsman Jim Zorn said, "As 
Foreign Car Parts Co.
far as we're concerned, we feel that the 'Quickie' provides an 

~:Parts & accessories for imported car
excellent opportunity for the students to get away from it all and 
R••ion•• for all makes at lowest prices.
thus help to create a better at­
Distributor
mosphere." 
l~*****••••••••****•••••For ND Students, Faculty & Staff 10 * 
"Personally I feel that students 
* percent discount with I D & pur-t
should use the 'Quickie' because it is more economical and safer than 
~chase of $10 or more. * 
driving," Zorn added. 
*******•****************~
215 Dixie Way N Roseland· So. Bend
Any student having a question concerning the Quickie Shuttle Service should call the Om­budsman Service at 7638. 
and LeMans may store their bicycles for the winter in the Regina basement, room 12, on Thursday, Noveber 21, and Friday, November 22 between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. There will be no charge for the storage. 
Augusta and McCandless residents may store their bikes in the basements of their own halls, she said. 
Those who wish to store their bicycles in Regina should bring them into the building through the southwest door of Regina and then in the elevator to the basement. 
Two days will be announced for bike pick-ups, one in February and one in March. 


Dpinian ...................................111....................................1
THE OBSERVER 
A~1 INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
.. 
EDITORIALS:  213-1661  NEWS:  283-1715  BUSINESS:  283-7471  
Fred Gr.ver Editorial Editor  Tom Drape Editor-In-Chief  MarleneZiou Manag.... Editor  
Bob McManus Advertising Manaaer  Terry Keeney News Editor  Bob lops Business Manager  

November 13, 1974 

An Act of Vision 
The Student Life Council has finally passed its revised ruling on sexuality, after four long meetings and in­numberable hours of conference and debate. Difficulties have arisen and been resolved concerning everything from the meanings of words to delicate phrasing of passages to the general formation of policy. 
The primary responsibility of dealing with instances of sexual misconduct, aside from certain behavior that is "flagrant, perverse or repeated after previous warning... or coercive," has been left to the rectors and hall staffs. And rightly so , for these peolfie are most in tune with tht! sensitive aspects which prevail in these instances. They can provide the compassion, understanding, and trust to make these disciplinary policies work. 
There is a paradox about the nature of these revised rulings, though. The wording, by admission of many members of the SLC, is vague and open to differing interpretations. This allows the hall staffs the freedom to work within a loose framework, but also provides an over-all sense of ambiguity in regards to exactly which crimes will be punished and what the penalties will be. 
The revision is now ready to be sent to Fr. Hesburgh for final passage. The questions which resides in the minds of SI:C members is "Will Hesburgh veto th1s new proposal?" They realize that, by means of compromise and debate, many . · . he passages are vague; Fr. Hesburgh ·J ~ked them to state the penalties more pecifically. Theyrealizethat the stand on ·xtramarital sex is left open to in­terpretation in matters of discipline; Fr. Hc;burgh asked that extramarital sex an•l activities which allow the legitimate 
presumption of extramarital sex by strictly prohibited. But they have put long, hard hours into the development of this proposal, and their work should not go unheeded and unrewarded. 
Father Hesburgh should pass the proposal, but now without careful con­sideration and perhaps revision of his own. To veto it owould be absurd, putting the ,SLC back where they began over three months ago. They have left many problems unattended over this period of time, and there are many more awaiting them. 
Fr. Hesburgh has already begun his active involvemnt in this ruling by his veto of the first proposal He should not overlook the completion of a project which he has begun. As a result of his actions, the SLC debate was carried out carefully and painstakingly. All the while, his power to cooperate or veto was in their minds. As an act of faith and trust in the working of the SLC, and the University, Hesburgh is obligated to finish his work and take part in the development of the proposal. 
In his role of President of the University, Fr. Hesburgh is being called on to provide an act of vision towards the developmentof a vital part of its future. He should take the responsibility to in­sure that this act is one which is clearly understood by all members of the community. 
We have spoken before of the lack of communication existant in the Univer­sity, both between administrators and students and among the adminstrators themselves. Now there is a chance to commence the opening of these channels. 
Now there is a chance to make them work. 
The choice is Fr. Hesburgh's. 
The Editorial Board 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
W!U, IT WAC£5 71/C 6li!fJMHOF A Ya!N6 PH!t.a51PHYSTUPBffti/HO 
50 WHAT'S THIS 
~TS /NVOL.VE/J IN 7HE 9ERK£tEY N§tv BlOCKBUSTE~ 
fi?E§ SPff!CH /tfOVtlt!IENT, THEN OF YOU~5 ABOUT; 
MOYES ON 70 A 81//JIJHIST 
REV? 
COMMf/NE IN MICHIGAN.. 

l 
I 

t.AT£1?, HE IS AI<R657W FaR. CONSPIRACY IN CHICA60, BUT eSCAPES 70 8E{(J4fE II f/6/J/C AT 
IT's st1ff I«XXJSSl)(K. RNAUY, Ffl£AK£/J OUT 
OFAIJO()T 0~ THli IIJIIR., AN/J111/R£/J ON SIX 
7H& S/XT/65. 'IE~ MAN,

qHERE I IN SPITE OF SLEIT, RAIN, 
TABS OF AC//J, HE IJRIVC5 HIS V.W. 
I8EEN
I

DARK OF NIGIT AND 7WJ O!lrA96HT 
CAMP!!< dV£1? II atfF 
7HME.. JO/f'.IfS Of KILLER WE.ED, IS YOUR 
AT I"TR.~IIIIIl 

I MAIL! 
MEDIA SEFMCES·BOX 

An Inmate at NO 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiM david saneraa 
Irresponsibility, inconsideration and greed c~n and do permeate what is acclaimed by some to be the foremost c1tad~l of Christianity in the western hemisphere. Alone, or even in occa~1?nal t.andem, mamy of the policies and actions both of the adm1mstratton and of certain select members of the faculty would be tolerable, but cumulatively create an atmosphere so socially and financially stifling as to be unbearable. When anyone on teh "outside" asks me where I go to college I almost feel compelled to say that I'm an inmate at Notre Dam~. 
As I see it, it is our privilege to be stripped first of our money, then of our sel~-respect. Several weeks ago, I tried to cash a check at the Dome Without my I.D. card. Having established who I was th~ cashier still needEd proof of my residency on campus this year.' Th1s seemed to me to be moderately understandable. I showed him my '74-'75 student billing card from the t4elephone company. The fundamental logic o~ the argument seemed to be rather persuasive, and as I loo~ed at h1m I could see the wheels turning in his head. B~t alas, 1t was too much for our automaton to cope ~1th , and I was forced to wask away penniless and a httle amazed at the failure of my sinister pleeecott to cash a check for twenty-five dollars. 
Another case in point. My roommate recently attempted to clear up some inconsistencies regarding the status fo his automobile in the parking lot. Although the story is a little lengthy to relate here suffice it to say that his car was towed away and that he simply wanted a temporary permit to park it in the lot over the weekend during which time he could arrange to replace it with a car already sta~ped with the University seal of approval. (Even the gas stat1on attendant, upon payment for towing charges, was heard to remark, "Man, they won't give you students a break to save their souls, will they?" How fitting. 
. At.what ot~er university could one h-ope to see such a phenomenal :1s~ m ~he prtce of basketball tickets? The boycott was at last son;e md1catwn that a majority of the students do care about something other than grades and-or beer, but the compromise is still a travesty of the students' real interests and a half-hearted effort at appeasement. This couldn't be said with such conviction were it not for the k~own existence of Endowment Fund C, one of the few skeletons wh1ch we we have seen out of the administrative closet. 
Because the extent to which the students can be raked over the 
financial coals is somewhat limited, there is a definite need to cater 
to the alumni. But when I first heard about what some students 
ha~e to ?o wi~h their cars before home football games, I couldn't 
beheve 1t. I ve never experienced such bvlatant disregard for 
stu?ents' interests. I don't know if there's another case like it in the 
natwn, but I wouldn't be surprised if N.D. is undisputably number 1 
in this respect. 
The last gem in the administrative crown of thorns is a real cli~cher. It might even be amusing if it ditin't carry so much top1cal relevance to the previous inconsistencies fo the ad­min.istration. Remember last year (sorry freshmen) how rie?1cated Fath~r Burtchaell was to giving us our present, umversally desp1sed student calendar, complete with two mini­absolutely-useless-vacations? Well, any break is a welcome one except when a departmental examination is scheduled for the first day back. It wouldn't be quite so annoying if it weren't for the fact that a year ago, these breaks were endorsed so as to give the stu~ent a much-~eeded rest. I rather think that an impressive savmgs was ach1eved by the current situation, because it looks much better to close the dining halls for a short period of time, whereas at least on would have to be kept open during a single, longer break. 
As an inter~~ting footnote to this development, one of my frients had th.e unm1t~gated gall to ask Professor Danehy if the second Orgamc Chem1stry test might be changed as it was scheduled for the worst .possible night of the year. Th~ professor repleied for several mmutes that the break was nothing more than a chance to catch-up on our studies, and then launched into a tirade against those students who are more concerned with their social activities than with their schoolwork. These "moronic asses" as he called them, were soon to find themselves in big trouble. The problem was, a lot of asses <who, like myself, did fordeit the vacation, and st~dy over break) proved to be just as moronic as the social chmbers; many agree the test was meant to be an intellectual comeuppance for the first test, where scores were slightly higher than average. The mean score was fifty percent. 
All of this, of course, was attributed to our lack of study and the professor was duly disappointed. He can just join the cr~wd, but somehow, the range and depth of our disappointment seems to c~tch and overshadow his. If the policy-makers were really so smcere, they could have saved a lot of students from this kind of unerhandedncss. It seems to me there is some kind of gentlemen's agreement between faculty and students as to when tests of this !ll~gnitude should or should not be taken. Unfortunately, that is all 1t IS, and we are left with an obvious conclusion when this unwritten contract fails . 
I hope the r~ader will. excuse the parenthetical sidestep, but my purp~~e wa~ s1mply to d1splay the wide chasm of fact between what admm1strattve reasoning is, and what in the end their intentions ~re. I ho~ I ha~e done a service by relating some of these trials, httle and bJg,.whlc~ the student must overcome on his way to social and academ1c stardom at N.D.; I realize at the same time however, that the best I can hope for is a little uncomfortabl~ apathy, and almost certainly an unsurprisingly colossal quantity of em~athy: We're all in pretty much the same boat, yet too preoc­cupied w1th ourselves to demand a change in its course. 
Wednesday, November 13, 1974 the observer 
7 

aut:rider iseriausly,falks 
I 
4
Southie's Anguish i• Liebchen Is Tired r:~a rry wiIlsi art: buc:hwaId ••• 
• 
To be for or against bussing-as-such has been. Only bussing across the whole : As one watches Henry Kissinger wing "I don't want to visit any caves and I don't 
•
become ridiculous. There's bussing and metropolitan area might have worked. • around from one country to another want to climb a mountain by the Dead Sea." c bussing. And I do not mean the distinction ~oes this. mean bussing is wr~mg or has : youcan't help but have a spot of sympathy "Well, you can't visit the religious places 
•
that is made by politicians, between bussing failed? Qmte the reyerse..This step ~as: for Nancy Kissinger. She looks like such a in Jerusalem. You did that two weeks ago. 
•
to improve education and bussing to ad-revea~ed ~he smoldermg racism that _exists • good soldier, but obviously the strain of Maybe I could swing it for you to run over to vance integration. Both goals are sought, in eyen m hberal New England, eve!"~ m the traveling with Henry must be a great one. I the Sea of Galilee. I hear they have some varying degrees, simultaneiouly. No, I city and the state known for an enhghtened would like to take you into their hotel suite in great Roman ruins there." ~ mean that each plan has to be judged by its civility. The bad handling of the problem Cairo. "Why couldn't you tell Sadat I have an wisdom and feasibility in the particular revealed the immensity of the problem, the upset stomach?" • circumstances. hatreds that exist in our society, the bridges "My God, Henry, I'm exhausted." •
"After he gave us a banquet last night? 
•
Anyone who thinks that resistance to that must be built. "I know, dear. It must be a wearing trip I'll tell you what. Take a ride down the Nile bussing grows out of simple-old-fashioned To be for or against bussing in itself is, for you. Why don't you go visit the for just half a day and everybody will be • love for the neighborhood school should therefore, simpleminded. Bussing is only a Pyramids today?" happy." • come to Boston just now. The trouble is tool, one that can be badly used or well used. "I've already seen the Pyramids, Henry." "Henry, I would like to say something. • blatantly racist, and no one can pretend No one object~d to it befo~e the ex~h~nge of • "Well, why don't you go to Aswan and see When we got married you never mentioned • otherwise. Bunches of bananas are waved blacks and whites was raised. If It IS to bee the dam? You could be back for dinner.' anything about the fact that your job would • at black children cowering in their escorted well used, it must take into account more: "I don't want to see a dam. I saw three in involve travel." • school busses. There is hatred and violence volatile things than mileage charts ande India." "It slipped my mind, Liebchen. But youin the air, cries of "Go back to Africa, next-nearest school linkups. It must put• "How about going up to Alexandria? I must be the envy of every wife in America. boneheads!" some purer middle class neighborhoods on: hear it's a great sightseeing town." Who else could go to Iran in the morning,
Some excuses can be made for the the line, along with or ahead of lower middle• "Why can't I just stay in my hotel room Syria in the afternoon and Saudi Arabia in 
l
residents of Southie, as South Boston is class enclaves like Southie. It must knit: and sleep?" the evening? I can't wait to read your diarycalled. Robert Coles, the eminent cities to suburbs, not just bus poor people• "Because, Nancy, the people expect you when we get back." •
4
psychiatrist, just made the number of these from one poor school to another. : to visit all their monuments. How would it "Henry, my feet are swollen." excuses in a long interivew in the "Boston There is no reason to condone the racism • look to Sadat if you didn't want to see the "You could go to Luxor for the baths. I'm 
~ 
Globe." He points out that Southie is a of Southie, or let terrorism make and un-: Sphinx?" sure they'd let you soak your feet for a 4ghetto, too--an Irish ghetto of ingrained make laws. The "Boston Globe's" plant has • "Henry, can't you understand--my feet while." resentments and frustration. The slum air been shot at, and the paper's trucks van-: hurt. I've walked from Pakistan to "Where are we going after Israel, t of nothing to lose makes white kids them-dalized. The paper has put steel shields • Yugoslavia, smiling all the way. My cheeks Henry?"selves scoff at the idea of anybody coming to across its w~ndows. But neither is there a_ny: are sore." "Greece. You'll love it. I'll bet you'veSouth Boston High for quality education. reason to Pit those least able to cope With • "Look, we've only got 12 more countires to always dreamed of going to Mount Olym­These people were segregated into their own chang~ ~gainst each other, i~nora~ce: visit. Then we'll go home and you can show pus. The government has fixed it so you can ghetto in the first place, and it makes little matchmg Ignorance, and hatred paired Withe your color slides to the Rockefellers. We'll visit 12 islands in one day. I wish I could go sense to "integrate" two ghettos with each hate. Pity, compassion, determination,• have a nice, quiet evening." with you."other rather than with the society from tact, skill--all of that is needed, along with: "Henry, I just want to stay in the room which both were excluded. the busses and the policel!len. . . : one day. Is that asking too much?" 
In a city just over 15 per cent black, the We condemn South Af~Ica f~r hvmg ase "Nancy, my little Liebchen, you know it Phone rings. Henry picks it up. first step was taken, as usual, among the Sout~ Boston d?es. The 1ss~e Is not really: makes no difference to me if you stay here "Oh yes, Mr. Minister. Yes, she's here. least protected, the most vulnerable and quahty edu~atlon; except I? the la~geste or not. But it does to the Egyptians. How Of course. She'd be thrilled. She was just therefore the most resentful. There were sense. The Issue IS the quahty of society; • can I explain it when you visit the Dead Sea commenting she had nothing to do this Plans to go on and do much more extensive the issue is apartheid. The rest of our: Scrolls caves in Israel that you refused to go morning. Right. She'll be ready in 15 bussing; but the bungling of this first step society hadbetter heIP b1gote. d South"1e out • out to the Pyramids?" minutes." has placed those plans in jeopardy now. while opening it up.' It is a jungle to be: "What Dead Sea Scrolls caves?" "Who was th~t •. Henry'?" . Here's a case where an insistence on civilized, and the civilizing proc~s invol_ves: "Oh didn't I tell you? The Israelis have '_'It was _the mtmster of to.urism. Th~~-re bussing for minimum distances was more tools more complex than outnght pumsh-• a~ranged for you to visit the caves after you gomg to give you, a camel ride to Is~~Iha. dislocative than going farther would have ment. ! chmb to the too of Masada." You see, you wont have to walk at all. 
···················································································································~ 
P.O. 
two colleges? I think a great deal start. I recall that many of the of the blame should go to the SMC faculty, and perhaps even some student government for once again administrators who un­assuming Notre Dame would do it derstandably chose to remain 
"I'M WITH YOU ... THE LORD WILL PROVIDE!'
for them. The greatest blame for silent, were against a week long
SMC Tix 
weakening the link lies with the mid-semester break. 
SMC administration who enforce •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
age-old visitation rules and hireDear Editor, mace-happy security guards.
I'm sure everyone is aware of I was part of that vocal, yet to protest, and 1 am sure the ad­
Mary Janca, SMC Editor for the
the underhandedness of Don ineffective, majority. I thought the ministrators sympathize with you the observer
Observer, and Fred Graver,
Bouffard and the Notre Dame pre-Labor Day start, asinine; the and are unable to easily dismiss
Editorial Editor, have called for an
Athletic Department. It's an 9-day October break, unnecessary. you justifiable negative response
end defensive
undisputed fact that they live in to the post-non­However, having just concluded a to Fr. Burtchaell's experimental
merger stance by giving them a
their own little world of footballs, very enjoyable and relaxing calendar. Night Editor: AI Rutherford . 
$10 discount on tickets to our
basketballs, athletic supporters vacation, I see a different side of Asst. Night Editor: Ginny Faust 
basketball games. At the same
and dollar signs, with little or no the coin. There IH'e indeed ad­Layout: Karilee Clark, Marti 
time, St. Mary's refuses to Perhaps my feelings are colored
even

regard for the students and their Hogan, Rosalee 
offer co-ex meal tickets on their vantages to such a mid-semester by the tremendous enjoyment and
attitudes. steak night. Let's putthe blame break. The nine days allowed first-rate good time that I had on
However, I can't agree with the 
travel time for a trip I never would vacation last week, but I do like the
where it really belongs. Day Editor: George Velcich
attack that is being carried out have attempted over a long idea of a lengthy mid-semester 
Copy Reader: Ken Bradford

against them concerning SMC weekend, and it gave me a chance break. Being a hedonist, as I am
Andy Praschak Editorials: Fred Graver
basketball tickets. 
to leave my studies here on often called, given a choice, I 
Features: Norm Bower

Of course, it would be a nice 
campus with a minimal amount of would prefer a week to travel and 
gesture to offer St. Mary's discount concern. 
play in October, than anothertickets for the basketball season. 
October seven day pay check in late August Sports: Greg Corgan, Bob KisselIt would also be nice to offer the after a long summer of labor--us Typists: Neil Viii, Jim Landis,same deal to Holy Cross Jr. 
hedonists are like that. Karen Hlnks, Camille Arrleh, Don
College, Bethel College, IUSB, and Break Granted, many students Holy Cross Nursing School. remained on campus for the week Roos 
Where were the St. Mary's and may feel the idea of such a students when all the deliberations long break is a waste of valuable For the first time in my three 
Compugraphic: M. J. Foley

and protests were carried out, I recall last year when Fr. and costly educational time. You years at Notre Dame, Fr. Burt­
Night Controller: Howard Halle

trying to get the prices lowered? Burtchaell proposed his new devinitely have a legitimate chaell may have done something 
Ad Layout: Bob Tracey

Were they in there fighting or did academic calendar for the school argument against our semester which I approve of and agree with. 
Photos: Harry Bush

they just assume that Notre Dame year 1974-1975. I recall the schedule. Others may complain in I hope he also had himself a good would do it for them? .5tudents' overwhelming disap­December when their wallets are vacation. Is it really fair to blame the proval and the Observer poll which thin and their pockets empty Athletic Department for 5howed that over 90 per cent of us because they lost a week of work J. Patrick Boyle weakening the link between the were opposed to the pre-Labor Day last August. You, too, have a right 

8 the observer Wednesday~ovember 13, 1974 
~----~~~~~--------------­
everybody's art gallery 
how to laugh at imperialism 

Things have changed at the Notre Dame Art Gallery. Once a small grouping of mediocre paintings in an obscure room of what is now the Architecture Building, the art gallery and collection of Notre Dame have grown to a place of prominence among those of other American universities. Today the Notre Dame Art Gallery and its holdings are recognized as among the best in American academia. Among the artists to be found represented on its walls are Renoir, Picasso and Cezanne. The cream of the world's cultural manifestations--its art­is here represented. 
The road to excellence for the Art Gallery was begun under the leadership of Father Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., who from 1962 untill974 built on the solid foundations of his predecess~rs; expanding the collection, acquiring new objects, pointing new directions. The changes made were numerous and important. Photography was recognized as a viable art form, con­temporary artists were exhibited in a gallery traditionally committed to 1 "recognized" art and moves were made to bring art to the would-be audience-­
·.students, faculty, administrators. Today Father Lauck is honored as Director Emeritus of the gallery and his work is still being felt. 
Working with Father Lauck during eight 
I 
•a of his twelve years as Director was another man, Dean Porter, who shared Father Lauck's desire for an active gallery. Upon the Director's retirement this summer,· Porter assumed the job and today seeks a larger audience with hopes to educate,
p ­

This coming weekend MECHA in cooperation with the Notre Dame Student Union will host the TEATRO TRIANGULAR from Caracas, Venezuela. This should prove to be a very unique ex­perience for the Notre Dame and South Bend community; for the TEATRO TRIANGULAR is an outstanding Latin American Guerrilla Theatre group, being the first of its kind ever to go on tour here in the United States. The group comes here to Notre Dame with a list of impressive ac­complishments, awards and recognition from major newspapers, theatre critics and academics in Latin America. They are a highly skilled professional group formed in radio and television which represents the people of Latin America, using their theatre .J show the realities of Latin America. 
In their production of "Buffalo Bill in Gullibleland," they show in a didactic manner the consequences of Latin American dependency on the United States. Their strength lies in the humor with which they present their material: they are truly entertaining as well as educating in their presentation. 
''Buffalo Bill in Gullibleland" is an ex­cellent opportunity for one to get a feel for the people, the problems and contradictions moving in Latin America today. The play is not your usual direct, dogmatic political message, but rather it is a dialectic development, a scenic synthesis of the history of underdeveloped countries put into art form. The TEATRO TRIANGULAR via enthrall and instill them with appreciation. The job is by no means a small one. Un­derstaffed and housed in an inadequate space in O'Shaughnessy Hall, the Notre Dame Art Gallery under Porter's guidance must meet the needs of the University as well as the demands of the public at large. It is the desire to discover these demands more clearly and to fulfill them that has led Porter and his staff to a new set of im­
peratives. 

Today, with so many activities competing for the attention of an interested audience, passive presentation of one's services or wares is no longer appropriate. No matter how beneficial or, in the case of the Art Gallery, gratuitious one's services may be, audiences who are not encouraged will not come forth. People will turn to those things that actively strive for their attention or they will, by mere inertia, remain unin­volved. 
It is against this unpursued or apathetic audience that Dean Porter, his Curator, Reverend Richard Conyers, C.S.C, and the staff of the Art Gallery have this year directed their attentions. The reasoning is that no matter how great a work of art may be, it is essentially worthless until ap­preciated. People who do not know of great things do not generally seek them blindly. Therefore it is now the task of these people to open eyes that have heretofore been clamped shut. 
The Gallery is now working under Dr. Porter's concept of "Renaissance at Notre Dame." This is simply a title used to characterize a series of programs designed to bring art and its appreciation to an audience that is by-and-large uninformed. The Renaissance concept is based on the principles that a university art gallery has an obligation, an imperative, to pursue its audience, educate them and bring them to understand the finer points of a vast and exciting world. The implication is that art need not be a cultural sphere limited to the wealthy, the intellectual or the snobbish. 
With a view toward implementing the 
above principles, the Art Gallery has begun 
an outreach policy geared to making itself a 
more integral part of the University. In­
volved in this is an increased amount of 
public information and overtures toward 
viewers, particularly the Notre Dame 
community. Along with increased 
newspaper and radio coverage, the Art 
Gallery, in cooperation with the Music and 
Speech and Drama Departments, has this 
year published a calendar which lists all 
campus cultural events. (Incidentally, the 
calendars are free for the asking in the Art 
Gallery). 

Beyond the media, the Gallery has 
initiated a program called "Masterwork of 
the Week," where any member of the 
University faculty may "nominate" a work 
from the permanent collection for a week­
long display period. The idea here being 
that art touches every facet of the 
University and can easily be integrated into 
any course. Ultimately, any member of the 
by steven alan bennett 
a preview by marcos ronquillos 
the theatrical media attempts to create a concrete picture of reality which reaches not only the sentiments but the intellect of the audience. 
Professor M. K. Vaughn, director of Latin American Studies at the University of Illinois after viewing a performance in Mexico City, reacted, "It is an analysis of imperialism which says more in 45 minutes 
.. ,·. ~ 
~~£~:{'~· ~ 
'11 
University will be able to nominate an ob­ject for the week-long encounter and plans to reach the students in this endeavor are forthcoming. 
Other than programs aimed at directly at Juring an audience, there have been sub­stantial improvements in the physical plant of the Gallery itself. Newly instituted this year is a permanent gallery devoted to the finest objects in the Notre Dame collections . 
"The Masterpiece Gallery," as this room is called, features the works of Picasso, Chagall, Mestrovic and a series of classic objects that date through the ages. 
In addition to this new display, which is located in a room that has been carpeted and refinished, the main or West Gallery has recently been refurbished and the floor re-surfaced. Further changes have. also been made which facilitate movement in the galleries and viewing of the pieces. 
This year also sees an increase in the quality and number of exhibitions, with a series of shows that go all the way from contemporary photography to Byzantine sculpture and paintings. The exhibition schedule has also been accelerated so that the greatest number of objects may be viewed by the largest number of people without becoming boring. Beyond the greater number of shows, this year's exhibition schedule is one of the broadest ever. Upcoming shows will feature American art, works of members of the faculty of the Art Department, German graphics and a one man show of the Ab­stract Expressionist, Vaclav Vytlacil. 
Also planned for December is a four day conference entitled, "Art for the Sake of Love or Money," which is designed to familiarize students with the various aspects of collecting as both a financial and personal activity. Discussions will be directed toward educating interested students in the selection of works of art and the advantages and pitfalls of buying for oneself, whether for investment of personal pleasure. 
Subjects to be discussed will also include than I can say in one year of teaching Latin American history.'' 
One cannot emphasize or put into words the importance and relevance of catching their performance. It is highly recom­mended to those interested in Latin America or in the universal problems of the Third World <developing nations), for this Latin American theatre group artfully expresses the dilemnas shared by all of us. Furthermore, all this is "done in such a manner that the audience receives the tragic and painful truth with laughter, without diminishing the impact of the message which allows for the development of a NEW CONSCIOUSNESS OF REALITY." <Juan Miquel de Mora, EI Heraldo, Mexico City) 
Think About It. There will be only one performance starting at 7 o'clock Saturday evening, November 16 at Washington Hall. Admission is FREE (as we want to share this experience and opportunity with as many people as possible). However, donations will be accepted at the door for Mrs. Ninos "El Campito" Day Care Center, which operates solely on this form of con­tribution. Again, think about it. 
art appraisal, the marketing of art objects, the detection of fakes and the ways in which art works may be differentiated as good or bad. All students who are considering the purchase of art objects either now or at some time in the future are invited to at­tend. 
Perhaps the most important exhibition of the school year, and the one which embodies most clearly the new imperatives of the Gallery, is scheduled for March and is en­titled, "For Laymen Only." This show, which will be exhibited in the East Gallery, features a practical approach to an un. derstanding of methods, idioms and techniques employed by artists through the ages. This display seeks to answer, in a direct and easily understood way, questions pertaining to all facets of art. The questions to be dealt with will be the types of questions that the outsider or the uninitiated might ask, hence the name of the show. 
Hopefully, through this exhibition a number of people who had previously been uninvolved or ignorant of the beauties and intricacies of the art world may be brought to a greater awareness. Hopefully too, all members of the University community will come to look upon the Gallery as a place to learn, relax and enjoy. 
With all of the plans, there is still much more to be done and more needs to be met. There is need for more space. There is the demand to continually seek out and display works of new and important artists. There is the duty to serve the community. 
Above all, however, is the demand to nurture and encourage an active and in­terested audience. Without use by all members of the University community, all of the already effected changes, as well as the planned ones, are without purpose. Whether one is a student of business, science or the humanities, there is something that art can say to him. There is a whole dimension of understanding and enlightenment available through art and the Notre Dame Gallery is working to see that no one is denied the opportunity to explore it. 
Woodrow Wilson Senior Fellow 
Ms. Phillips speaks on 
by Judy Peterson Staff Reporter 

The staff director of the House Republican Policy Committee, Ms. Martha Phillips, visited Saint Mary's November 4-8 as a Woodrow Wilson Senior Fellow. During her visit, Phillips met with students and faculty and discussed topics ranging from sexism to the 1974 elections. 
Sexism in Congress 

Phillips said that a slight degree of sexism exists in Congress. She stated "that it is equally difficult for freshman Congressmen to establish themselves, regardless of whether they are men or women. If a woman is good, however, it will be recognized. Yet if she is in­competent, it will be blamed on her sex." 
Phillips said hiring practices differ on Capitol Hill. "Some Congressmen hire women to type and men for advice, whereas others hire strictly women because they have been psychologically prepared, by their former role in society, to assist men," she said. 
Watergate hurt 

Commenting on the November 5 elections, Phillips said: "Watergate definitely hurt us. But the Republicans thought they would have time to start a clean slate and hoped that it wouldn't affect the grass roots elections. Despite Watergate, the elections were determined by the economy more than anything else." 
''The Republican Congressmen didn't consider Haldeman and Elerlichman to be real representatives of the party as they were too involved with the means instead of the ends." 
Phillips raised the possibility of a third party in 1976. "A con­servative break with both the Republican and Democratic parties would bring about a third party, such as George Wallace's in 1972," she stressed. 
Price controls ineffective 
In clarifying the Republican position on price controls, Phillips said that they are only a short term tool and too costly to administer. "The controls led to a dislocation in the economy. Beef prices were caught low and grain prices high­thus it now costs more to feed a cow than to sell it." 
"One trick used to get around the controls was to export a product, such as copper, have it declared a foreign product, then import it and re-sell it at a higher price." 
"There was no way out. We couldn't continue the controls. So in order to balance our fiscal budget, it was necessary to propose the 5 per cent surcharge." 
She felt the surcharge, if enacted, will result in increased unemployment. These people would then be placed in public works projects. 
If the surcharge is not passed, Phillips proposes that Congress either raise taxes or do away with some federal programs. She said "they will probably do both and end up making no one happy." 
Russian wheat deal 

According to Phillips, the recent controversey over the Russian wheat deal is being solved by Congress. In order to avoid further problems of this nature, Congress has introduced bills which will 
Cuban sanctions upheld by OAS; e:mbargo retained by tW'o votes 
QUITO, Ecuador <UPI) ­The political and diplomatic embargo imposed on Cuba 10 years ago survived its first test Tuesday when the hemisphere's foreign ministers failed to revoke the sanctions· that have deeply divided the inter­American system. 
Twelve nations voted in favor of lifting the ban, six-including the United States-abstained and three voted against the resolution which also called on members of the Organization of American States to "faithfully observe" the principle of non­intervention. 
The line-up of the vote was Argentina, Costa Rica, Colom­bia, Dominican Republic, Ecua­dor, El Salvador, Honduras, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Trini­dad and Tobago, Venezuela in favor of lifting the embargo; Chile, Paraguay, Uruguay against and abstentions by Boli­via, Brazil, Guatemala, Haiti, Nicaragua and the United States. 
The OAS has 23 members and 12 is the simple majority, but 14 votes -or two thirds -were needed to lift the sanctions. Only 21 voted because Bar­bados and Jamaica are not signatories of the Rio Treaty of Mutual Assistance, under which the sanctions were imposed in 1964. 
The U.S. vote was cast by Deputy Secretary of State Robert S. Ingersoll. His absent superior, Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, came under fire during the session. 
Colombia's foreign minister, Indalecio Lievano Aguire, one of the architects of efforts to bring Cuba from isolation, said that while Kissinger's absence here was "a grave matter, what is even more troubling is that the United States does not 
SMC RELIGIOUS STUDIES 
Courses for Spring, 1975 
101 Biblical Theology 9TT11 & 10TT12 -Werner 191 Theology & Life Colloquium (one credit for freshmen) 111 The Religious Attitude 9 & 10 MWF-Malits 141 Dimensions of Religion 9TT11 & 1TT3 -Mallts 151 The Catholic Experience 12 & 1MWF-Heaney 301 Gospel of John 9 MWF -Weiss 341 Understanding Theology 10TT12 & 1TT3 -Heaney 431 Christian Scriptures 11 & 12 MWF 
For SMC students, 100-200 level courses fulfill core requirement; 300-400 are electives. 
For NO students, l00-200 RISt courses count toward Theo requirement as first courses; 300-400 qualify as Theo second courses. 
For SMC students, registration Nov. 14-2\, 8:30-4:00 in Religious Studies alcove, ground floor, North wing, Madeleva. 
ND students wishing an RISt course must register at NO according to the Theology Department's direc­tions. 
have  a  policy  to  deal with  the  
new  realities  of  Latin  Ameri­ 
ca."  

Ingersoll said after the vote "Our abstention should not be taken as a sign of anything other than the fact that the United States has voted in accordance with its own per­ception of this question at this time." 
He said the meeting "has at least aired in a constructive way the fact that there is no easy solution to the problem of a country which deals with some on the basis of hostility and with others on the basis of a more normal relationship." 
Wednesday, November 13, 1974 the observer 9 
varying topics 

force companies to report sales to also selling the grain to other them, enabling the U.S. to control countries. Hopefully, the new laws foreign sales. will stop this activity." 
i
Phillips explained how the 4 wheat deal took place: "The Future plans Russians came in and secretly sent representatives to all the com­Philllips, who received a panies, who in turn brought huge bachelor's degree in English from amounts of grain, leaving us in a the University of Maryland and a bind." Master's degree in government
"As it)ooks now, the Russians and education from Columbia will try to return and do the same University, accepted her current thing. Their crop is sufficient to position in January 1974. She plans support their population, but they to continue in this capacity and has are supplying for the future and ruled out running for public office. 

The Nolle DMie Sfu.llf Union 
Cultural AIts Canlmlulon,......,. 

Thumlay, November 14th &OOpm at OLaughlin Auditorium St Mary's College 
tickets  $2.00 Students 13.00 Adults  
on sale at  Student Union Ticket Office Iafortune student center and at the door  

information: J83.3197 

10 the observer Wednesday, November 13, 1974 
For all students 
SMC to sponsor workshop 
by Annette Buzinski Starr Reporter 

The St. Mary's Campus Ministry Department will sponsor a workshop open to all St. Mary's and Notre Dame students the weekend of November 15. 
This workshop will center around the knowledge and ex­periences of Ken Feit, a professional clown. Feit believes that with the increasing violence, a change is needed in the fields of communicaion, myths, symbols and rituals. He feels this change is a necessity before we can com­prehend the meaning of our daily routines a::d all aspeds of our existence. 
The 33-year old Feit was born in Chicago and educated at Loyola University in Chicago. He received further education from the University of California and Xavier University. He entered the Jesuit order to prepare for the Priesthood in 1964 but later abandoned it. Feit then traveled to St. Louis and worked with black juveniles which resulted in his forming of "sound poetry", a unique combination of onomatopoeia, music, poetry and story. 
When Feit moved to Milwaukee in 1969, he extended his knowledge of communication and, with his background in Jesuit training, he became involved in liturgical ritual, private mediation and Western mysticism. Feit went on to acauaint himself with fairy tales and children's stories 
For one year, he taught in a Montessori school and aided the University of Wisconsin Early Child Development Center. In the fall of 1970, Feit studied at Ringling Brothers Clown College in Florida and also attended a session at thE National Theatre of the Deaf in Connecticut. 
By 1971, Feit's profession could be called the "itinerant fool", that is, one who tells stories, celebrates life and death, proclaims the truth,. heals, and serves the poor. 
As a professional clown, Feit has visited various colleges, schools, churches, parks, libraries, and museums guiding retreats and workshops. He has also worked on television and radio. Feit has taught a course in myth and ritual, too. While in Milwaukee, he performs in the theatre and has been named as Wisconsin's "state fool". 
Feit's presentation at St. Mary's will work toward a different manner of communication and awareness. The program will begin Friday, November 15 at 7:30 
p.m. with a presentation by Feit on mime allegory, clowning, storytelling, music, sound poetry, puppetry and folk tales. 
Saturday's schedule, beginning at 9:30a.m., includes displays on instruction for the deaf, lunch, puppetry and its analysis, movement exercises formed to interpret one's self, an open discussion, dinner and afterwards, a presentation on storytelling and story -listening. 
Sunday's program consists of Sound Poetry, lunch, Bamboo Rituals and White -face, a com­ment on the clown and an ex­ploration of the inner face. 
The workshop will end with the group going out into the com­munity and coming back to share their experiences 
The work of Feit is of special interest to students in drama, anthropology, psychology and religious education. Anyone in­terested in attending the workshop is asked to contact Sr. Pat Koehler in the Campus Ministry Office in Regina Hall. The fee for the entire weekend is $10. 

Student Relations Board 
Judicial board laces changes 

by Mike Edwards serious effort is being made to 
Staff Reporter relax its punitive aspects and 
emphasize a counseling and 
Until recently, whenever a rehabilitation role. serious rules violation occurred at Mary Anthoine, head of this St. Mary's, it was likely that the year's board, which is composed of offender would have to face the ten upper classmen, said that "the Student Judicial Board which purpose of the board has always would assess the case and possibly been to strengthen community issue a penalty. Today, the living. It has always been that but judicial board is known as the we are trying to make it more so Student Relations Board, and a now'' 
Campus View available 
by Val Zurblis Starr Reporter 

The Campus View Apartments will be available for second semester on a five month lease, Joe Kleiser, manager of the complex, announced yesterday. 
Kleiser said 30 units will be available. The $275 monthly rent includes furnishing and ap­pliances, but students must pay their own utilities. 
Kleiser stressed that there have been no security problems at Campus View. "We're located in a residential area and have our own l!.ghted roads and security people. 
Nazz coffeehouse will open tonight 
by Mary Egan Staff Reporter 

The Nazz coffeehouse will open experimentally tonight in the basement of LaFortune from 10 
p.m. to 12 midnight. 
"If this first experimental Wednesday goes well," said Ralph Pennino, ND campus life com­missioner, "the Nazz will be open . every Wednesday." A Wednesday Jazz night for the next semester is a possibility, he added. 
The Green Mountain Fliers will perform from 10 p.m. to 11 p.m. Dave Sheehan will play from 11 
p.m. to midnight. Free beverages will be served. The Nazz hosts Teawood, an 
accoustical music group from 
Buffalo, New York, this Saturday
-
in a free concert. Jake Scheider, A Teawood member, attends Notre Dame. 
And on student breaks we double up on security to watch student belongings," he added. An on-site manager is available if any problems arise. 
Students who want to move in can store their belongings in the apartment over Christmas for no extra charge. "We want to save the students the trouble of taking their things home then bringing them back again," Kleiser stated. 
Campus View isn't fully com­pleted. Seventy two units out of 96 are finished and Kleiser expects the other 24 to be completed in a week to 10 days. The community building and a swimming pool are also expected to be done. 
"I want Campus View to be comprised of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students," commented Kleiser. "We have a waiting list for non-students but I hope we'll fill up with students first," he added. 
Anthoine explained that the revisions are being made to "make the board less ominous and more of an aid to promote community living, with no cut-and-dried penalties and more flexibility. We want to try to handle cases in­dividually and reasonably, and steer away from the policeman image." 
One innovation this year is intra 
hall judicialry boards. Each hall has a board composed of six members, two from the Student Relations Board, three at-large members from the hall, and the hall vice president. 
If an infraction of the rules oc­curs, the individual is first referred to the Resident Assistant. If further violations occur, or if the violation is of a more serious nature, the hall board is called in and an attempt is made to settle the matter informally, Anthoine continued. 
If this proves ineffective, the issue is brought before the Student Relations Board, where a number of sanctions can then be imposed, including sign-in hours, con­finement to campus, and ultimately expulsion, she said. 
Anthoine also announced that there were two openings on the board for freshman and that anyone interested should notify her at box 1795 McCandless Hall, call 5764, or attend a board meeting which will be held this Wednesday at 8pm in the LeMans Hall Con­ference Room. 

SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just 
mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. except home football game weekends. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 
NOTRE DAME 

FRESHMAN PHEREGISTHATION FOH ARMY HOTC 
Preregistration for the Freshman Army ROTC Spring Session will be held Nov. 14-21, 1974. 
No military obligation is incurred during Freshman and Sophomore years, and by enrolling, you become eligible to compete for a two-year Army ROTC scholarship during your Sophomore year. It pays full tuition, for books and academic fees, as well as $100 per month subsistence allowance. Even without a scholarship, you receive $100 monthly in your Junior and Senior years. 
Army ROTC can offer you a commission as a Second Lieutenant in the US Army Reserve concurrent with your graduation from college with a starting salary of $10,000.00 a year in addition to other liberal fringe benefits. 
If you then decide to leave the Army, you'll find that employers realize that a young graduate who possesses the attributes of leadership essential for Army officers is an excellent addition to their firm. 
The Army ROTC course consists of two class hours per week and is open to all Freshmen at Notre Dame or other nearby cross-enrolled colleges. Course hours can be arranged by telephoning Major Jim Musselman at 283-6264 or by contacting him at the Notre Dame ROTC building. 
------·--------­


The iron railing pictured on page 3 runs east-west behind Washington Hall. This 1892 view shows that the railing once delineated (lover foreground) the southern boundary of St. Edward's Park, an elaborate 400ft. Victorian garden, complete with water fountain, statue of St. Edward (the current one but located atop a slight rise facing west), and In the summer months an extensive floaoral display. From 1882 until 1929 when it wass converted to a college dormitory, St. Edward's Hall served as a self-contained communityy for about 150 students in the University's grade school known as the Mimin Department. (Photo repreduction by Jim Newkirk, History by T. J. Schlereth) 
JDL vows to kill Arafat 
Palestinians arrive at UN 
UNITED NATIONS (UPI) ­Representative of the Palestine Liberation Organization made their first foray into the United Nations protected by a massive security operation Tuesday to pave the way for the arrival of their leader Yasser Arafat. 
Arafat was scheduled to arrive in this country Wednes­day to demand before the U.N. General Assembly a homeland for Palestinian refugees. Mem­bers of the militant Jewish Defense League have vowed he will not leave New York alive. 
As the 20-member PLO delegation made its first moves in the United Nations, hundreds of police and special agents ringed the skyscraper U.N. headquarters building. Marks­men were stationed on rooftops and in nearby buildings. 
Other officers with guard dogs patrolled streets and the city's bomb squad was on alert after telephoned threats. 
The United Nations was closed to all but official visitors, losing an estimated $4,000 a day from its guided tours. 
Arafat left Cairo early Tuesday en route to New York but Arab sources professed not to know his arrival time. They would say only that he must arrive by 9 a.m. EST Wednes­day. He was scheduled as the first speaker in the General Assembly's historic Palestine debate at 10:30 a.m. 
One security official revealed that the route Arafat would take into Manhattan would not be chosen until five minutes before the motorcade gets under way. 
At a news conference Monday night, members of the Jewish Defense League, displaying a pistol on the table in front of them, vowed publicly to assas­sinate Arafat during his visit to the United Nations. 
"We are ready to assassinate 
WAJTRESSES NEEDED 
AT FAT WALLY'S 
2046 

So. Bend Ave. 
277-0570 APPLY IN PERSON 
Arafat, JDL Russell
spokesman trained men who will make 
Kelner said. "This has been 
sure Arafat does not leave New 
carefully planned. We have 
York alive." 
LAW AND DISORDER 
Phone 288·8488 for times & directions 

Wednesda November 13, 1974 . the observer 1 1 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 

1974 Scuba Pro diving tank and boot. Call 8253. 
2 YES tickets (15th row). Call8369. Cheap! 
Clean component sound. Dynaco . Pat-4 Preamp & stereo 120 AMP I $225 AR-manual turntable with i Shure M91 ED $75. 8456. 
Hanimex 90-230 mm zoom. Thread or Canon mount. Call Jc:ie, 6720 after ll pm. 
WANTED Wanted: 4 GA Air Force tickets. Call Chip, 6931. 
Need 2 Pitt tix.Call Ann or Val, 8143. 
Please. I gotta have 4 Pitt GA tix by today. Call 287-0076 now. Thanks. 
Wanted: 4 GA Pitt tickets. 6232. 
For sale: 1 student ticket for. 
Pitt Game. Call Marty at 289­
3751. 
Neea ride west on 1-80 (Moline area), Nov. 15. Call Jane, 7995. 
Wanted: hotel room Sat. night of Pitt weekend. Call John, 282-1568. 
Really need 2 GA Pitt fix. Call Monica, 4489. 
Need desperately 2 Pitt tickets. Call Tom, 283-1461. 
Please, I need 4 GA fix for Pitt. Call Camille, 5154. 
Wanted: used upright piano for reasonable price. Call Mike, 1248. 
Ride wanted to Hartford, Con­necticut, for Thanksgiving. Will share expenses. Call Paul, 8923. 
Need 2 GA Pitt fix. Call 289-9148. 
Need ride to Columbus, Ohio, Fri. or Sat., Nov. 16 or 17. Call Barb, 4008. 
Need 4 GA Pitt tix. Will pay good money. 277-0014 after 7 pm. 
Need 1 or 2 GA Pitt tix. Call Nick, 1553. 
Need 2 GA Pitt tix. Call Michelle, 3665. 
Help! 1 need at least 8 GA tix for Pitt game. 1 will top the best offer for any ticket for that game. Call 3274 after 11 pm. 
Need ride to Long Island, N.Y. over Thanksgiving. Will drive and share expenses. 1861 Mike. 
Need many p;tt tix. Call Zen, 233­2352. 
FOR RENT 

Room -$40 week. Near rides, privacy. kitchen. 233-1329. 
503 West Jefferson duplex, 3-room furnished apartments. First and second floors. Gas heat, furnished. 289-6307. 
Irish Lampoon needs articles and cartoons. Call 272-8724 between 9 & 
11:30 pm. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost at Blues Festival: red book bag. contents: 2 books, purse, checkbook, CILA Christmas card order forms and 8-page midterm (crucial, due tomorrow). Reward, no questions. Kate, 289-3945. 
Lost: Friday evening, a set of two keys on a gold key chain with a red heart. Please help. Reward. Call 5791. 
Man's watch found by Nickle's at 
1:22 a.m. Monday Nov. 4. Call Kate, 289-3945. 
Lost: brown wallet, possibly at St. Mary's dance Friday. Call John, 3737. 
Found-calculator in Science Hall. Call 8941. 
NOTICES 

Fr. Hesburgh will be celebrating a community THANKSGIVING MASS on Nov. 26th. HELP IS NEEDED in areas of audio­visuals, constructing screen, composing prayers. If interested call 6536, 8832, or leave name at campus ministry office, 103 Lib. 
For sale: 2 Dooble Brothers tickets. Call Maryann, 4238. 
Desperately need 2 or 3 Pitt tickets. Call 5464. 
Need 4 GA tix for Pitt. Call Joe at 289-3751. 
lnterhall Hockey Students interested in playing on the off-campus hockey team ­there will be a meeting in the Flanner Hall pit at 7:30 p.m. Thursday, November 14. For any information call Cliff Maison at 272-9895. 
Beatles Illustrated Lyrics No. II now at Pandora's Books, 602 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
Want something unique? Try Jennifer's Designer's originals. Import clothing, jewelry, 119 W. Colfax. 
Tune-ups by experienced mechanics, ND students. $10 plus parts. Call John, 1604, Pete, 272­1279. 
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN 
BUYING A NEW CAR? FORD, 
LINCOLN-MERCURY, PON­
TIAC, OR AMC AVAILABLE. 
CALL 232-4736 EVENINGS 
BETWEEN 7:00 AND 9:00 AND 
ASK FOR SLICK SAM'S SALES. 
SERIOUSLY, GOOD PRICES ON 
ALL MAKES. CALL NOW TO 
BEAT THE THANKSGIVING •RUSH. 
Car problems? Come to Hoffman Bros. Eddy at Madison. Wholesale prices to N D-SMC students, faculty, and staff do-it-yourselfers. Repair service also available. Since 1929. 234-0181. 
Take the Greyhound to Chicago from NO every Friday at 5:40. Call Tom Boyer, 272-1807. 
World Book used much, stimulating, essential,· revised, inexpensive ... Larry, 289-5407. 
PERSONALS 
Laureen and Robert: The flight leaves Saturday mor­ning for the penitent pilgramage. Bring sackcloths and ashes, coarse linen and salt. 
The Would-Be Ascendant 
Coach: Three long years ago -yet yesterday. You were the best! What memories! Cuddles, 5D, changing my mind. Calculus, hayride, sweet notes, catching the bus, Sunday afternoons, I.U., teaching, learning, smiles, and tears ... "So you're the one" ... 
Moira: Get rid of your sheep and chickens. They're officially perverse. 1 guess you can keep the dog. 
Happy B-day Dr. Redford, your guidance has given health and holiness. 
Love, The Nun and the Nut 
Deb Darling: Happy Birthday. Couldn't make it in from Utah. 
All my love, Bob 
Missing! one Kimberly Ann Bonk, last seen on 31 disguised as a Free and Wild Spirit. Abducted sometime after lealiing Kubiak's Friday. Reward. 
Kimberly Ann does not exist. Kimberly Ann will not be missed. 
Cincinelli: Two nights in a row WEO! 
Margaret, Scoring with all the Goodyear employees! Have you totaled up the points yet? WEO! 
Do we wish you a Happy Birthday? 
Y .B.Y.S.A.W.D.! 
CO-ED "BU" -4 EW Stanford challenges any girls "bu" squad to a "bu" battle. Call 8720 or 8727. 
CM­RSVP Someone 
Beethoven lives11 
GOD HELP DOUBLE "D." 
Need 4 GA Pitt fix. Call George, 287-0067. 
Ask Stan -he has all the answers. 

-
-

ND cagers in action Friday night 

by Bill Delaney 

The road back to a possible post­season tournament for Digger Phelps and his Irish Basketball Team begins this Friday night at 
8:30 with an exhibition against 'Athletes in Action' in the ACC. 
"Our goal has been in each of my four years here at Notre Dame to go to a post-season tournament, and this year is no exception," commented Head Coach Digger Phelps. "We're a young, inex­perienced team and we're going to make mistakes, but these weeks of traininggivesus the opportunity to get things straight before our season opener (at Valparaiso, Nov. 30)." 
The past four weeks of practice has been a period of transition for the Irish. "Overall, we've got a total of ten freshmen and sophmores this year, and our preparation thus far has . con­centrated primarily on introducing a new system to them," explained Phelps. "This transition takes 
... time, but without it, we'd have a lot of problems." The area where Phelps is most 
tion this Friday night at the ACC.
pleased with is in the depth he has 
center, but Digger is hoping that the r~~oun?s we ne~d."
at the backcourt spots. Co­
captain Dwight "the Ice Man" co-captain Pete Crotty can take Wa1tmg m the wmgs B:t center charge. "Pete has the experience, are sophomore Toby Kmght. and
Clay, along with sophomore Ray 
and knows how to play defense," freshmen Dave Batton. Kmght,Martin are joined this year by 
commented Phelps. "We've who substituted for Sh'-!mate la~tfreshmen Jeff Carpenter and Don returned him to ct::nter in the hope season, has been commg on m"Duck" Williams. 
that his aggn~ssiveness can give us practice as of late. "There has
"We're going with a new of­fense this season that demands quickness every second, and with the guards we've got, speed will be 
Buggers drubbed 34-0 
no problem." The loss of All-American John By Bob Kissel 
"We played near our goal line Shumate has left a gaping hole at 

most of the game, but the defense The Notre Dame rugby team held," commented Tom Hessert. concluded their fall season on very "The 'B' team is undefeated again 
Sailors upset top 
much a sour note. The Irish for the second straight year and we ruggers lost to the Midwest feel as if we can play with 
champs Chicago Lions 34-0 last anybody." 
Saturday.
Michigan squads 
The Irish 'C' team also came up

Notre Dame sailing team 
"We weren't psyched for the on the short side, losing 8-0 to thedefeated highly rated Michigan 
game after our week layoff," noted Lions' 'C' unit. Again, the Irishand nationally ranked Michigan team captain Larry Casey. "once ruggers were forced to playState to win the area 'A' elims on again we were slow starting into defense the whole game.
the Detroit River, this past 
the early part of the game, but we
weekend. The elims are a The Irish 'A' finished the season 
never got back in this time."
qualification for the Timme with a respectable 4-2 record, Angsten regatta held in Chicago "The Lions were a good physical losing only to powerhouses Palmer over Thanksgiving. The Angsten team with all the experience in College and the Lions. Next spring regatta is the equivalent of a fall the world," noted Casey. "But we the Notre Dame version of rugby National Championship' couldn't win at three of the fun­will surface once again. Team 
There was a fine performance damentals of rugby, the lineouts, captain Casey sees that changes by the Notre Dame Sailing Team the loose serums, and the set must be made in the way the Irish with Buzz Reynolds skippering 'A' serums. We played defense the approach the game. division with crew Meme Hanson whole game, which did not afford 
Included in tentative plans for the 

and Mike Wullaert, and Dave many scoring chances." 
spring are a trip to sunnyConstants skippering 'B' division The Irish 'B' team salvaged the California for the annual tour. Thewith crew Bruce Marek. Buzz took 

day for ND, by squeaking past the club also plans to enter the Mid­low point 'A' with 3 first out of 5 Lions' 'B' club, 3-Q. Mark Keown west championships in early Mayraces. The final standings were converted a bad angle penalty kick and possibly travel to theNotre Dame with 24 points, five minutes into the opening half Nationals in Colorado. The teamMicljjgan 25, Michigan State '1:1, for the only score of the game. has the bitter taste of two badKent State 29, and Wooster 36. 
From then on, Notre Dame was on defeats, something they won'tThis weekend the sailing team the defensive run, fending off forget when the snow begins to wraps up their regular fall season numerous Chicago threats. thaw in South Bend.
with the Big Ten Championships at Purdue. The final regatta of the semester will be the Timme Angsten with such schools as defending champion Yale, Har­vard. number 1 ranked Tulane, Stevens, Southern California, University of Hawai;, plus 12 other schools including the nine best in the Midwest. 
ND-Alaba1m clash" in O'ange Bow 1 finally official 
The University of Notre Dame announced yesterday that it had officially accepted a bid to play the University of Alabama in Miami's Orange Bowl on New Year's night. 
The official statement came shortly after Alabama's an­nouncement and as a result of a team vote and a Faculty Board approval to go to the Orange ~owl. Everything was all but certam last week when the "unofficial" bids were received and the match-ups 
The Irish rugby team play a physical game which earned them a 4-2 
-were announced. 
record this fall. 
promises Digger. "Most of the teams on our schedule this season will be playing a physical-type style of ball, so we're going to have to run and press and play a solid defensive game in order to com­pete with them. We'll be starting the season with an offense that has to bring the ball across center court in four seconds at maximum, so we'll be exciting and quick." 
Student participation, always a dominant factor in Notre Dame's success on the court, will again be needed for the upcoming season. "We play four of the top ten teams this year <Kansas, UCLA, Marquette and Indiana), so you can definitely say that we have a tough schedule," said Phelps. "We'll always show up to play, and we hope that the students will come and support us, because it is tough to play all our games as if we're on the road. Our victories over UCLA and Marquette last year were greatly helped by student participation, and we hope they don't let us down this year." 
Firday night's exhibition against the Athletes provides Digger the opportunity of evaluating his youthful squad. "The team we been a tremendous difference in play Friday night is 6'10" , 6'8", Toby's play from last year," said 6'7" in the front court, giving our Digger. "If he can stay out of foul front line some experience in trouble, he'll definitely contribute playing a tall team," noted Phelps. 
to our program." "We're playing a team that lost to Batton, at 6'9" is the tallest Irish Maryland by only ten points, with player and has unlimited potential, Maryland at full strength, so 
according to Phelps. "Dave is we'll have our hands full." coming along as well as we have Tickets for the exhibition are one expected, and we don't want to dollar for adults and 50 cents for rush him. He has the desire to be a children as well as all Notre Dame 
fine player, and we think he will be students. They may be purchased a good one." at the ACC box office between 9 Notre Dame promises to take on and 5 all this week, and also on a different look this season Friday night before the game. 
Irish fourth CDld fifth 
As expected, Ohio State's upset loss to Michigan State resulted in a change in the college football polls. The Buckeyes have been on top of the polls since September. 
The United Press International's board of 35 football coaches placed the Crimson Tide of Alabama on top, followed by Michigan, Ohio State, and Notre Dame. The AP poll had the same order of teams with one exception, the sportswriters voted Oklahoma into the top berth. 
Other Saturday upsets juggled the standings in the Top 20. Both Florida and Texas A&M lost over the weekend dropping to 8th and 9th in the UPI vote and 9th and lOth in the AP tally. 
Penn State lostagainand skidded to lOth and 11th, while the Spartans from Michigan State came from nowhere after their upset to claim the 13th in the UPI and 15th in the AP. 
Southern California with a 6-1-1 record now holds the 7th and 8th spots in the football polls. ND's next foe, the Pitt Panthers are ranked 16th and 17th on the basis of their 7-2 record. 
AP Poll  UPI Poll  
I. Oklahoma (411) 2. Alabam~ (10) 3. Michigan (4) . 4. Ohio Slate .  R-0-0 1.1911 ~~-~0 1.10'1 9-1).0 1.014 !1-1-0 ~7i  1. Alabama (23) t-O 2. Michigan (II) 11-0 3. Ohio State 8-1 4. Notre Dame R-1  329 312 263 207  
5. Notre Dame  7-1-0  661!  5. Auburn 8-1  166  
6. Nebraska  7-2-0  57i  6. Nebraska 7-2  .16.'i  
7. Auburn  .1!-1-0  522  7. Southern Cali!orn1a fl. I-I  162  
8. S. Cali!ornta  fl.l-1  41!7  R. Flonda 7-2 .  49  
9. Florida  . 7-2-0  31H  ·g_ Texas A & M 7-2  45  
10. Texas A & M  . i-2-0  306  10. PPnn Stale 7-2  35  
II. Penn State  . i-2-0  245  11. N Carolina State R-2  .... 31  
12. Miami. 0 13. Maryland 14. Houston  1!-1).) 11-3-0 6-2-0  160 139 117  12. Miami 0. 8-1).1 13. Michigan State :1-3-1 14. Houston 7-2  2R Ti 25  
15. Michigan St. . 16. N. Carolina St 17. Pitt 18. Oklahoma St  ~3-1 1!-2-0 7-2·0 :1-3-0  110 10:1 6,'j 62  15 Maryland fl.3 16. Pittsburgh 7-2 17. Okla Stall•. 5-3 18. Texas Tech 11-2-1  16 6  
19. Cali!ornia 20. Texas Tt>rh  6-2-1 . 6-2-1  5.'i 411  19. (Tie) Baylor 5·3 19. (Tie) Tulsa fl.3  

Art Best suspended 
Tempermental halfback Art Ron Goodman and Mark Best has been suspended in­McLane are alternating at the definitely by coach Ara Par­position vacated by Best along seghian for a "team violation." with reconverted fullback Russ 
Best missed Sunday evening Korman. team meeting and didn't show up until Monday afternoon for 
Purdue-UM on TV
practice whereupon Parseghian informed him that he would be off NEW YORK (AP) -ABC-TV the team "for at least a week." announced Monday it will televise 
"You can't have one set of rules four college football games for him and another for the rest of Saturday, with most of the countyr the squad," said Ara. receiving the Purdue-Michigan 
Best, who had already been in contest. the doghouse for a couple of weeks, The other games to be aired claimed that car trouble had regionally are Florida at Ken­prevented him from making it tucky, Brown at Harvard and back to South Bend in time. Colorado at Oklahoma State. 






