


server 
university of notre dome -st. mary's college 
Friday, April 18, 1975 

Apodaca stresses role of states 
In light J.'Or equal education 
by Christie ll('rlihy Staff Heporter 

An Tostal highlights Friday and Saturday 
The honorable Jerry Apodaca, governor of New Mexico. emphasized the role of state governments in pressing for equal opportunity in quality education when addressing a banquet of the Civil Rights Con­ference last night. 
The first Chicano governor since 1918, Apodaca stressed. "I am sure that With all of us working in our state governmPnts with public interest groups we can do more· than federal government has done in the last 20 vears." 
Apodaca. warmly welcomed in Spanish by Fr. Theodore Heshurgh and applauded by the law school faculty and conference participants, alluded to the approaching bicentennial as a time in which America reflects on its years of accomplishments but also of failings. "It is a time to reinstitute the beliefs of our forefathers," Apodaca said, referring to the needs of the minorities for quality education. . 
"Our hearts were open to the orphans of South Vietnam. an unprecedented act of compassion by the American people," Apodaca said glowingly, "but it is up to us to channel that goodwill within the boundaries of the United States." 
Terming the United States' attempts at world peace 
"dim." Apodaca stressed that the federal.government 
was frustrated, "indecisive and confused in trying to 

Guess what. .. today is Frivolous Friday and the An Tostal Committee is fired up and ready to go with its second day of fast-paced activity for the fun-loving residents of the land of DuLac. Today is the day to be frivolous and nirtatious, and above all, friendly. 
So start your morning with a song, because you may prefer to hear something voiced in tune before the An Tostal Chorus makes its debut in the dining halls with a dash <or is that dot'?) of humor in the form of Singing Telegrams. The music may not satisfy your munchies, but that's what Food Services is here for anyway taren't they'?). 
And as if Notre Dame students didn't have their hands full of wild goose chases just trying to register for courses, the An Tostalers have prepared a scavenger hunt of sorts which will lead all interested super sleuths on a search for hidden pleasures. The hunt begins at 11:30 at all three dining halls. Tally-ho! 
E!{g toss 
A soft touch is a prerequisite in the egg 

toss which commences on the South Quad 
promptly at 1:30. Leading egg-perts say 
most entrants in the egg toss should have 
their heads eggs-amined, but everyone is 
nonetheless encouraged to scramble on over 
and join the competition. 
Frivolous Fridayers took time mto their 

The Gentle Thursday ... 
.. 
It, ~...:,.·-....·...;.-.........:....bi,v ­
-~ 
.... 
own hands and delayed high noon two full hours, so the much anticipated Water Balloon Duel will take place on the South Quad at two o'clock. 
Simultaneously, just a short walk away campus bigmouths will be presented the opportunity to live up to their names in the Jello Toss. But it is very much doubted whether the jello toss competitors will be able to stuff as much jello into their mouths as An Tostal automobile researchers plan to stuff people into an Oldsmobile 88 parked nearby. 
Jim E. Brogan himself has flown in from New York (and admits his arms are a little weary l to emcee the perennially popular Impersonations Contest. The whole South Quad is the stage for the 2:30 contest. 
B-ball l'bampionship 
The final championship game of the Bookstore Basketball Tournament has been pushed back until 6:15 this evening, but the delay is not expected to lessen the expected capacity crowd at the Bookstore Arena as Commissioner Vince Meconi announces his last <well, then again that's what we said last year and it is rumored that a red shirt has been discovered in his laundry) bookstore basketball bonanza. 
The Amateur Hour in Stepan Center at 
7: 00 will showcase both outstanding and less than outstanding talent fresh from the daughters of Notre Dame rolls out at eight o'clock. Bring as many passengers as you 
but for safety's sake--only one driver per automobile. 
The North Quad is the site of this year's An Tostal Picnic, featuring a special added attraction from McDonald's Hamburgers. 1250 numbered pink badges will be distributed along with 1250 numbered blue badges. If you find your opposite number, 

On the inside: ·In the spirit of Frivolous Friday The Observer presents The Absurder 

fulfill its precious dreams." 
Emphasizing that "destiny cannot be waited for but shaped." the recently-€lected governor said that he recognizes the challenge to undertake the fight for , equal opportunity in education. 
"I believe as I hope you believe the government can 
freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors that pledge allegiance to the University of Notre Dame. 
At 8:30 those who know the ACCis used for more than basketball games can make the trek under the stars to listen to the sound of Santana. However, Farrell's ice cream fans are encouraged to remain behind when the bell is rung to announce Recess 101, billed as a return to childhood featuring all kinds of kiddie games, cookies and koolaid. 
A special prize will be awarded to the wearer of the best costume of a cartoon character, so those who woke up last Saturday morning to watch their favorites have a decided advantage. Admission is free and hilarity guaranteed-so don't miss it. 
Sunny Saturday 
Father Griffin and Darby O'Gill thought sunny-side-ups would be a perfect way to welcome the arrival of Sunny Saturday, and so they have invited all early risers to a special breakfast in Darby's Place at 5 a.m. Hopefully, food and guests will be abundant, and Griff's company as heartwarming as ever. 
1 
At six o'clock, the event designed to determine Notre Dame's finest all-around athlete gets under way. Ernie Myers has once again organized a demanding decathlon, and the event looks to be the most successful ever. 
'Tl)e An Tostal Road Rally, sons and be a creative instrument to help people improve their lives and realize their goals," Apodaca added. The potential for such change, he stated, lies in the state level. "Not only because of the general disen­chantment with the government in Washington but because of tlie potentials of the state capitals across the nation." 

Only since the 1950's has the federal government been successful in instigating change through the courts and legislature, Apodaca argued. The great reforms before 1932 came from the state, including the Abolirionist movement and the labor movement. The great progressive governors like Teddy Roosevelt also focused attention on the states' leadership role. 
"I see the same prescription for the future; the states have not yet taken the back seat," Apodaca continued, adding that quality education for all citizens has historically been a main concern of the states. 
He commented that while local economy fluctuates, the needs of students do not. Apodaca added that (•ducation must be the key issue of civil rights in America because deprived individuals are excluded 
·from participating in society. Minority groups remain 
suppressed in the lower end of the economic scale for 
they are not skilled enough for high-paying jobs. 
"It is the duty of this conference and the states to be 
a model to identify with the needs of the minorities so 
that private industry will do the same," Apodaca 
concluded. 

then the two of you can travel to McDonald's Roseland store for McDonald's cheeseburgers on the house. 
At twelve-fifteen, the Imperial Parade of the Chariots sets out from the porch of Dillon Hall for its distant goal of the Ali-New An Tostal Field <Located just to the north and east of Stepan Center). All charioteers are requested to join in the pomp and cir­cumstance. 
The race for the laurel leafs has a planned post-time of 1 p.m. and is expected to once again to be the supreme highlight of Sunny Saturday festivities. 
You may find the next event particularly hard to digest, especially if you are a con­testant. Notwithstanding, the Pie Eating 
1 

Contest begins at 1:30 complete with blueberry pies and eventually blue faces. 
The varsity basketball team faces the varsity football team in a race aginst time and a world's record at 1:45. The ol:>ject is simple: if either side can put an upright piano through a nine-inch diameter hole in less than two minutes and 26 seconds, they '11 be the holders of a world's record. 
The men's and women's touch football championships have an estimated game time of two in the afternoon. The halftime show features the Ye Olde An Tostal Bike Race from B-P to the An Tostal field. 
The greatest thing about Sunny Saturday is that it gets dirtier and dirtier. Mud Volleyball championships, a brand new event named Robin Hood Meets Little John, and the tug-of-war should delight every one who ever made a mud pie. 
Finally, the Irish Wake and a beautiful fireworks display will bring the An Tostal festival to a close. The Wake features great refreshments and a great band, Pez, from Chicago that has toured with the band Chicago. The dance party opens at nine o'clock; admission will be a dollar per person, payable at the door. 
the observer 

warld 
bri•l•, 
WASHINGTON (UPI) 
-A federal jury Thursday acquitted former Treasury Secretary John B. Connally of charges he accepted milk lobby bribes, taking his word over : that of his accuser In the 1971 affair. 
SAIGON (UPI) -Communist raiders attacked a com­munication center on the edge of Saigon containing South Vietnam's main flelphone link with the outside world Thur­sday night. It was the closest assault tothe capital since last January. 
an campus 

today 
Friday, April 18 -An Tostal 
by Chris Meehan Staff Reporter 
Students have recently ex­pressed confusion regarding the University's regulations on the assessment of fees for overload courses. These are courses above the maximum amount established in each of the Colleges: 17 for Arts and Letters and Freshman Year, and 18 for Engineering and Business Administra.tion. This does not include ROTC courses. 
The University's policy as published in the Academic <::ode states that "additional tuition charges shall take effect in the spring 1975 semester." This decision was made in last year's spring semester. 
According to Richard Sullivan, University -Registrar, the students with an overload will be notified by their deans of the money due except in the few cases where a waiver can be issued at the discretion of the dean. If the student does not wish to pay the fee, he will be given a chance to drop the class in the falL 
If the recommendation is ap­proved, no financial charges will be made. 
Sullivan stressed that each student must receive his dean's permission to take an extra course whether the recommendation is passed or not. He and the deans will notify students with overloaded schedules if they are approved or not in the next few months. Students with unapproved schedules will be able to modify them in the fall 
-----· ­
8:30-10:00 a.m.--Session, "europe In the age of Ideological division", rm. 348 madeleva, smc; "some shakespearean symbolisms", rm. 352 madeleva, smc; "byzantulm and eastern europe In renaissance art," carroll hall, madeleva, smc.; "renaissance perspectives on practical problems at home and abroad,", rm. 243 madeleva, smc; "some problematic themes In shakespeares plays, rm 353 madeleva, smc. 9 am-~civil rights lecture, "economic distress & minority groups: the right to meaningful employment" by r. freeman, w. lucy, m. raskln, & I. thurow, cce audt. 11:15-12:30 a.m.--session, some Images In john mllten re­examined, rm 352 madeleva, smc; travel and literature In 
the  rena lssance,  rm  348 ·  
madeleva,  smc;  uses  of  pre­ 
christian  philopphy  in  the  
reformation, 243 madeleva, smc. 


1:30 pm--civil rights, "welfare reform & the redistribution of wealth; the right to an adequate Income", cce audt. 
4:30 pm--colloquium, by r. range, 226 computing center 5 pm--mass & dinner, bulla shed. 5 pm--vespers, log chapel. 8 pm--concert, santana, $5.50, : $4.50, $3, ace. 8 pm--play, "the star-spangled girl", free, little theatre, moreau smc. 
Saturday, April 19 -An Tostal I 
8 am--symposium, "human rights & social justice" con­ference, cce. 11 am--crew, nd men vs. mercy hurst & culvert, mishawaka rides from circle at 10:30 5 pm--vespers, log chapel. 7,9,11 pm--film, "the great gatsby", eng. audt. 8 pm--international festival, wash. hall. 
Sunday April 2 
1 pm--tennis, nd women vs u. of\ toledo. outdoor courts 2 pm--recital', ladles of nd music group, lib. audt. 3 pm--recital, guitar, little theatre, moreau. 
4:30 pm--vespers, lady chapel. 8 pm--film, "hour of the fur­naces", free, eng. audt. 


BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY 
I 
Good Potential Income No Age Barrier Full or Part Time ·. 
Contact D. A. Doxie 503 N. Blaine Ave. South Bend, IN 
(219) 234-4469 
Academic Council voted this past 
fall to postpone the assessment of 
fees until the fall 1975 semester 
because of a scarcity of data on the 
subject. 
Students attempting to take an 
extra subject next year have been 
told that they will probably not be 
informed if they will have to pay 
for these classes until this sum­
mer. 
Recently, however, the Ad­
ministration recommended the 
abolition of the fees. The 
recommendation will probably be 
discussed at one of the semester's 
three remaining Academic Council 
Council meetings and the results 
made known soon after. 
If the measure is not approved 
Dick Gregory to speak . at. Stepan Center 
· Freelance humanitarian Dick Gregory will be a guest of the University of Notre Dame's Hunger Coalition at a public talk at 8 p.m. Saturday, April 26, at Stepan Center. The talk is open to the public and a nominal ad­mission charge will be added to the University's contribution of funds to purchase food for hungry nations. 


STUDENT UNION PRESENTS: 

THE GREAT GATSBY 
' 

ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM MIA FARROW 6:30, 9:00, 11:30 
$1 

• ATTENTION • 
COLLEGE STUDENTS 
ABOUT TO GRADUATE? 
Today's Army has programs iust for you. 
STRIPES FOR EDUCATION rewards you for the education you have 
PROJECT AHEAD helps finance your continued education 
STRIPES FOR SKILLS offers a job where you don't start a1 the bottom. 
TALK TO THE ARMY REPRESENTATIVES WHEN THEY. VISIT SAINT MARY'S CAMPUS APRIL 22 
FOR MORE INFO CALL 284-4431 


Five year Cambodian war wreaks havoc on country 
SAIGON <UPI> -The <~peace While. wars ra~~d up to led to American help in the Cambodian war lasted just over , and som<>tm~es . over Its b!Jr-planning of the coup that saw five years from first shot to ders, Cambodu;~ fmally fell I!lto Lon Nol take over from last, killed an estimated 250,000 the maelstro~ . of Indochma Sihanouk on March 18, 1970. persons and brought to power warfare ~or political rea~~ns. But there is no proof of direct one of the world's most The ~mor league ~obtics of U.S. involvement in the over-shadowy governments. Ind_o~hma and the big league throw of the charismatic 
It left one of the most poht_Ics of supeq~owers Cambodian leader. beautiful nations in Southeast particularly the Umte~ States Sihanouk's departure brought Asia in ruins. It also virtually -p~ob~bly_ made war m Cam-a pro-American administration ruined a keystone of American bodia mevitable. . to power in Phnom Penh, and foreign policy, the so-called _One man, Prmce Norodom while the new government Nixon Doctrine. Sihanouk, kep~ the war away publicly espoused neutralism, it 
By the time rebel forces took from most of his peop~e. But he supported only Western poli­control of Phnom Penh and m~de mo!e e!lemies _than cies. announced they were hunting fnen?s wit~ his seemmgly The Vietnamese Communists 
These contacts, some allege, a. Khmer Rouge· s1ege: ' 
SUNDAY MASSES 
MAIN CHURCH 
5:15 p.m.  Sat.  Fr. Bob Griffin, C.S.C.  
9:30a.m.  Sun.  Fr. Dick Conyers, C.S.C.  
10:45 a.m.  Sun.  Fr. Ernan McMullin  
12:15 p.m.  Sun.  Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C.  


GREAT GRACE PRIZE DROP 
AN TOSTAL SATURDAY 
CATCH THE PAPER PLATES 
$30 MOST PLATES COLLECTED $20 SECOND MOST $10 THIRD MOST 
100 Free Irish Woke Tickets Redeemable at Groce Hall 
:***********************************~
down the last government erratic behavior. . took no chances. As South holdouts, the war had turned For years, he. allowed VIe~-Vietnamese forces entered from an issue to a tragedy. nal!lese Commumsts to use h~s Cambodia with U.S. advisers, 
i BROTHER
The rebels won a clear-cut nation as_ a sanctuary ~or the_Ir the Communists pushed their military victory, using a war ag~mst the Amencans m border sanctuaries into the * • publicly announced plan against South Vle~nal!l as long as they center of Cambodia. 
i FREEDOM !
a government force with more kept the. fightmg away from the They quickly overran three soldiers, more arms and total Cambodian people.. northeastern provinces, which * • control of the sea. _But by 1968• S!hanouk 'Yas they used as a huge base area 
! APPEARING AT :
Insurgent forces used superi-disturbed that the !'lorth V_Iet-to store supplies for their own or organization, ruthless terror n~mese were_ plottmg ag~I!lst war in Vietnam and train the ** ••and superior battle tactics to hlm by. armmg and trammg nucleus of what was to become defeat the larger army of the Cambodian malcontents. When the formidable insurgent army. 
i THE REGAL LOUNGE!
Phnom Penh regime. he found ~e could not _cross a North Vietnamese and Viet 
As all wars do, the conflict in North . VIetll:ames_e lm~ . on Cong soldiers fought most of * • Cambodia began long before Cambodian soil d~rmg a VISit to the battles for the Khmer : 1121 W. 8th St. : the first shot was fired. northeastern ~rovmces, he was Rouge <Red Khmers) during 
! MISHAWAKA :
Balanced on the knife edge of r~ady t~ swmg back to the the first half of the Cambodian right a b1t. . . war. The Khmer Rouge fought * • . Th~ough A';!st~ahan and Brit-what in retrospect were obvi­
'Fleet' essential 
!Sh mte~mediane~, he m~de a ously training battles against i FRIDAY & SATURDAY t 
d~al WI~h President Ric~ard weak government positions in

to An Tostal N1xon. S1hanouk allowed Nixon the provinces. * • 
The An Tostal "fleet," an in­to send. B52s to ~und ~he But by the time the Paris i APRIL 18 & 19 t tegral part of the An Tostal C_am?odian sanctuanes begm-peace agreements on Vietnam activities, does everything from mng m early 196~. The deal was were signed Jan. '1:7, 1973, the ! 9:00P.M. to 1:30 A.M. ·: transporting equipment, booklets, to keep the raids secret -a Cambodian war was pitting 
* •
and balloons to picking up per­deal that. ~as perfect~y kept. Khmer against Khmer on * •sonnel and blueberry pies. In a?~Ition, American CIA almost all battlefronts. The 
: NO COVER CHARGE! :
and mil~tary .agents kept the Khmer Rouge had taken overCommanded by An Tostal 

Cambodi~n high comman~ -the Angkor Wat temples from *************************************.
Generals Don Opal and Ted Ursu, 
a~d particularly old American the North Vietnamese whothe fleet consists of two pickup fnen~ Ge~. Lon Nol .-we!l garrisoned the ancient complex. f~~~-------------­
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 
trucks, one van, and three supplied With the latest mte!h-And the siege of Phnom Penh f t 
automobiles. Each of these PROUDLY PRESENTS
gence reports on . C~mmumst that was under way when the

vehicles will be very much in t
trO?P movements InSide Cam-United States halted all bomb-&evidence throughout the weekend. 

bodia. ing raids on Aug. 15 1973 was f ·t 
"Opal and Ursu have really worked their tails off this week to insure the festival's success," stated Vinnie Moschella, Sunny Saturday chairman, "and deserve tons of praise for their efforts." 
Assistant Chairman Bob Quakenbush agreed, "they have done one helluva job. They've not only built the largest, most ef­ficient An Tostal Teamsters Union ever, but they've also master­minded the construction of the sturdiest, most escape-proof jail 
t
f THE t 
ALICE COOPER :f 
•
SHOW 

"WELCOME TO MY NIGHTMARE" 
the North Quad has;_;e~v~e:;_r_:s:ee;n~.'~'-.::=======================~ 
r--tii~tt~ii:~iPt------------------~ 
·----------------­
I AM  A9  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I I  II  
At the An Tostal Picnic, the first 1,250 guys and girls will get a stick-on badge with a number on it.  1 1 1  t t  
I I II I I  There's one set of numbers for men. And a corresponding set for women. The trick is to find the member of the opposite sex who has the num­ber that's the same as yours. Then, when both of you get hungry, come to McDonald's®and we'll pop for a free regular cheeseburger for two. After that, you're on your own. . Offer only good: April 21, 1975 thru May 21, 1975  II 1 1 1 1 1 I II1 1 1  I WITH: JOZEF CHIROWSKIt SPECIAL GUEST STAR:WHITEY CLAN STEVE HUNTERt PRAKASH JOHN DICK WAGNERt SUZI QUATRO : TUESDAY APRIL 29 8:00p.m. tt NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC & f CONVOCATION CENTER  I tf f  
I I I II 1  52665 u.s. 31 N. Just North of the Toll Road.  I I I II I I  t f TICKETS GO ON SALE MONDAY APRIL 21 AT 9:00 f'A.M. AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE AND A.C.C. ONLY. LIMIT 8 TICKETS PER PER-f SON. ABSOLUTELYNOMAILORDERS. PRICES: $7.00, $6.00, and $5.00  t ff •t  

'

·----------------------------------------1 

4 
the observer Friday, April 11, 1t7s 


Acadeznic Council will review 

IMPERIAL MUSIC
Preprofessional curriculuzn 

STORE CLOSING
by Shawn Scannell department at Notre Dame is due 1 committee in February of 1972 to 


Staff Reporter 
The Academic Council will consider a proposal to abolish the curriculum as designed by the Preprofessional Studies Depart­ment at its next meeting on Tuesday, April 22. This action would reduce the Department's function to one of simply advising 1 students with intents of attending medical school, as opposed to their to the fairly close contact between · the chairman and the students and between the chairman and the medical schools." 
According to sources at the departmental office, the depart­ment has indeed been successful. Each year, between 70 and 80 percent of undergraduate ap­plicants art-accepted at a medical school, where the national average is close to 30 percent. 
investigate the Preprofessional Studies Department. 
The committee's report was covered in "Notre Dame Reports" no. 11 of '72-'73. This report basically found some fault with the department based on the need for it to have academic status. 
The quality of this report has been questioned by several sources. Fr. Walter commented that it "has some good points, but 

1~17 U..C0. WIJ WH1. So. ltnd Store Only
Save .;: 50% 
ENTIRE STOCK 
in general it is not a good report." necessary curriculum for such to the uniqueness of the current In a letter to science professors, students. · function of the department. from the organizations circulating Several students became aware "Notre Dame is alone in this 
present capacity as planners of the Walters attributed this success 
the petition, there is a reference to of the proposal just last Wed-regard, and I feel our success is "many insufficiencies in the nesday and the reaction to it has due to our uniqueness. The success proposed alternatives." These been quite unfavorable. Efforts by brings students to Notre Dame and groups stated that another study 
the Preprofessional Student Ad-this department has been very should be made before voting on a visory Council, Alpha Epsilon successful in turning out fine matter "concerning such radical Delta, and the Pre-Medical Society physicians over the years," he changes," as this one does. have resulted in a currently cir-stated. The letter to the professors urges culating petition. The petition 1 Walter, also noted that at the that they read to their classes a urges that the Council defer action moment, the preprofessional letter from these groups dealing on the proposal until a better 1 studies department affects nearly with the situation which would assessment ol preprofessienal 1000 Notre Dame students in­urge those students to sign the slltdmlts' sentiments can be made. terested in medicine. petition to postpone the voting, 
Fr. Joseph Walter, chairman of As to the upcoming vote on the scheduled for Tuesday, April 22. 
the Preprofessional Studies proposal, Walter noted, "I do not According to William Burke, Department, stated that the know why the change is being assistant provost and member of proposal would make the depart-sought, but I will leave the decision the Academic Council, information ment "less effective". to the learned members of the 
to themembers on the matter was 
His greatest fear in regard to the council. It's just one of those released Thursday. Fr. Ferdinand 
proposal is that "human nature things." Brown, associate provost, handled 
being what it is, if the advisor did Walter commented that this the eompilation of the information 
not have academic status, a situation has been in the air for in this release, but would not 
student is more likely not to show about four years. "Notre Dame comment on the source of this 
up for advice, or keep in touch with 1 Reports" no. 11 of '71-'72 reported 
information. medical schools until right before on the first event of the situation. 
Since Fr. Burtch a ell could not be he applies. The success of the Fr. James Burtchaell appointed a reached, it is unknown at this time 
what the criteria of the Council will 
• I k be in deciding this matter if theMU Icah y:h OUSlng OUt 00 peuu.on does not succeed in 
delaymg the vote. A student spokesman for the
'75-'76 school yearPrepr?fessional St~dent Advisory
good for Council, Alpha Epsilon Delta, and 
the Pre-Medical Society, John 
Students who handed in their normal three-man suite in orde~ to Sellick, urged all students, housing cards in order to secure accomodat~ four people •. " he.said. especially those directly involved on-campus housing next fall can By convertmg these smtes m the in pre-med, to sign the petition 
apparently rest assured, stated Fr. older halls, 100 freshmen could be before Tuesday. The petition sheet 
John Mulcahy, director of housing. I crowded if necessary," he added. will be in 239 Nieuwland Science 
Mulcahy said there will be "no In previous years the University Hall for those interested. problem" in obtaining on-campus has also had this over-crowding p f • • f • • 
residence next year. Although the problem. Last year the lottery ar lClpa lOn ln count of students requesting helped to allievate the situation. bike a thon urged
housing in dorms is not complete, -­
the outlook is.good. In1972theschooldiscoveredthat by Coach Devl"ne 
Mulcahy said that there are 74 it had 350 more freshmen than more students requesting on-beds. That year it handled the 
Coach Dan Devine joins children 
campus residence then expected, siuation by having students live in from Logan Center in urging Notre but that was in effect "hitting it hall lounges, basements, and st.udy Dame students and faculty to right on the nose." He explained rooms. Upperclassmen were participate in the RIDE-A-BIKE that of those 74, 30 to 50 would be questioned as to whether they 
for the mentally retarded. Coach 
· k d • would prefer to live off-campus or 
Devine is honary chairman of the
p1c e as R.A. s. t h f h · h h
0
He also mentioned that there is a ave res men room wit t em. ride which will be held on Sunday, "natural attrition" of students The number of students over the April 27 at 1:00 p.m. each summer who decide to more expected amount in 1973 was 175. Proceeds from the event off-campus. Plans made for In that year only 45 of an an­sponsored by the local chapter of housing, however, assume that no ticipated 100 persons reversed the Indiana State Teacher's one will do so. their decision to attend Notre Association, will be awarded to the Mulcahy went on to say that Dame during the summer or their Council for the Retarded of St. "last year we had more than 100 plans to live on campus. The Joseph County to maintain their extra students and it posed no university solved the problem by program for Pre-school han­serious problems." overcrowding and asking up-dicapped youngsters. The Housing Director said that perclassmen to room with fresh­Riders may begin the 25 mile next year's freshmen would feel men on a voluntary basis. ride at Logan Center, 1235 North the consequences involved if an Approximately 1650 freshmen Eddy Street. After the ride unexpected glut of students oc-are expected for the 1975-76 school refreshments will be served. For curred. year. Of this number, there will be more information call Kevin "We would add an extra bed to a about 400 women and 1250 men. Connolly 289-3408. 
student union presents 
the an. tostal concert 

Jfanrakr ilfnusr 
"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
-======~=====::::::::::::::::!===========~:::======::.==========!=================:=:!:::=:w 
;:;: 35 Varieties of Pancakes :::: ::;:chicken -Steak -Sandwiches :;:: iii~ Friday Nite.s: ·Pe-rch Dinners :r 
:i:::::::::::::::::::::::;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:;::::::::::::::::::# 
Your Host
U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North (~cross from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards, NO 'SQ 
·-!I 
Looking For An Tostal Festivities? 
FRIVOLOUS FRIDAY: afternoon: 
South Quad evening: Stepan Center 
SUNNY SATURDAY: 
picnic lunch:  North Quad  
afternoon:  The All New An Tostal Field  
Just east of Juniper -­ 
Just north of Stepan Center  
evening:  Irish Wake in Stepan Center  

One dollar at the door HAPPY AN TOS!AL! 
NOTICE 

NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
Now is the time to start making your change of address on aII first class m a iI , 
magazines, newspapers, etc. 
Please contact post office for change of address forms. 

with~ 
MUDDY WATERS\ 
I 
April 18th, 8 p.m. 
TICKETS ON SALE AT THE DOOR TONIGHT 
(tickets $5.50, 4.50, 3.00 ACC and Student Union box oHice 

Cut out the dollar, br1ng
HERE'S ADOLLAR · 
it with you when you 
come in lor your hoir 
styl1ng, and we'll toke
FOR YOUR HEAD. 
$1 off your bill. Not only do you saw a buck, but the g1rl1 ore going to make you look great and you get to practice 
CHR 
Master Stylists 

your cuf·outs. What a 
.1..11. Ten &Country 255·8&01l deal. 
,-,,.-, CHR master
._.L.JI stylists zss·•••• 
HAIR CARE FOR liEN 
TOWN &·COUNTRY MINI-MALL I MISHAWAKA, IND. 46544 
r 
r 
r 

-~!111181IMI.utml 

t.,+ "'-THE ABSURDER 
9 . · . University of Notre Dame -St. Mary's College 

********************************************************************************************** 
Hesburgh agrees!! 

Ford invites Hesburgh to campus 
by Fred Graver Then, President-Doctor Ford will bring of black patent leather shoes, black pants, a employees grom the Morris Inn, who will 
Hesburgh to meet with executives of twenty­silver sequin cape with the words "Right serve them a special dinner of tea and rice. 
The South Bend White House today an­five leading liberal organizations,including On" inscribed in the back, and an army After this sparse appetizer, they will go to nounced that President Ford has in­the United Farm Workers, National helmet. 
the fourteenth floor of the library, where vited Father Theodor, M. Hesburgh, Organization of Women, National He will then appear on the roof of the they· will be served chicken cordon bleu,PresidenT of the University of Notre Dame, Organization for the Reform -of Marijuana Morris Inn, in front of a cheering throng of shrimp salad, black-eyed peas, and a dose of 
to visit the Notre Dame campus. Laws, and the Notre Dame Campus well-wishers, to deliver his semi-annual strychnine which would kill the average
The invitation begins the final link in a Ministry. "greatest student body in the world" human. chain of events concerning Ford and Rumors that this meeting will be picketed message. The crowd will be supplied byHesburgh, which began when Hesburgh by members of the South Bend Klu Klux "Cheering Throng of Well-Wishers, Inc. of Neither man will die, though some of theinvited Ford to Notre Dame for St. Patrick's Klan, American Nazt Party and National Cassopolis, Michigan," and will replace the 
governors attending the dinner will sufferDay, March 17, 1975. During that visit, Ford Amphetamine Addicts Alliance have been Mishawaka High School Band, which was greatly. was presented with a Doctorate of Law quashed by the University Information originally scheduled. 
Doctor-President Ford and President­Degree. Services Director, Richard 'Embargo"' If, at this time, the President-Father­General; Gtrthet--Hesburgh will then retire
On March 27, the beginning of Passover, Conklin. General sees his shadow, there will be six for the night to the Morris Inn. Ford willHesburgh visited Ford at the Pentagon, After meeting with the liberals and 
more pardons of unindicted high govern­read Father Hesburgh a beddie-bye story, where Hesburgh was made a four-star whoever else shows up, President-General ­ment officials by President-Doctor Ford, as but only after he takes his bath, gets in hisgeneral and Sublime Commander of the Father Hesburgh and President-Doctor well as several hundred more amnesties Dr. Denton's, and says his prayers. ThenArmed Forces. Ford will take a long nap. 
granted, if the weather is warm. everybody will live happily ever after.
In gratitude, Hesburgh traded places with At 6 P.M. Father Hesburgh will dress in Following the apparition, both living A pleasant time is guaranteed for all. AndFord, though they did not trade offices. his royal garments. These garments COI)Sist legends will beet with a chosen group of of course, Henry the horse dances the waltz. 
Over the Mid-Semester break, Ford moved 
into the Administration building on the 
Notre Dame campus,and Hesburgh moved 
to the White House in Washington, D.C. 
Hesburgh has made visits to Palm Springs 
Official Ford Letter 
and Vail, Colorado, as well. Ford will present Hesburgh with the 
Dear Ted: years of service, especially in light
complete CIA file on his life, and the lives of 1 On behalf of the Trustees, the of the many difficulties you have 
all of his relatives, friends and close Administration, the Faculty, Staff had dealing with students. associates. The file also includes a set of and Students of Notre Dame, I 
I have been notified that it is 
fourteen pictures of Hesburgh making would like to extend to you an your custom, on these brief forays english muffins for himself for breakfast. invitation to visit your campus. to the University, to make yourself 
Hesburgh will present Ford with a Purple Realizing that it is difficult for available to any member of the Heart for his service on the Student Life you to tear yourself away from University community who mayCouncil at Notre Dame. 
your pressing engagements in have some business to conduct 
There are rumors that Ford and Hesburgh Washington and the other jet-set with you. I have arranged for the 
will also make a joint appointment of Father capitals you visit, we have not set proper facilities to be put at your 
James Burtchaell as director of a new any specific date for the visit. disposal. The basement of 
program for South Vietnamese Refugees. Anytime you can make it, Ted, is LaFortune will be cleared ex­
The specifecs of the program have not been alright with us. pressly for this purpose. 
announced, but there are indications that Perhaps you could arrange to 
the men will be put to work as baggage visit on a day when the University Sincerely Yours in Christ, 
clerks for an air line. is in all its glory, in full session, Jerry 
After the convocation, President-General­making the best of its express role 

Father Hesburgh will meet ' with a in the Universe. If you can't make P .S. Do you think it would be too 
representative body of students, chosen it on a football weekend, any class tacky to present you with a football 
from people found in Niewuland Science day would be okay. . helmet while you are here? The 
Center between the hours of three and five While here, I would like to award students might "dig on it", as they 
A.M. you the Purple Heart for your say. 
Busty ~~!}:?..~~~~ •«a~hH~~ ~!,!.~~i.!':~rune, §.flli~tlliat
meeting's end. dere's a reporta copeen down what tired of only being able to hunt at Grubbe's doctors had taken from h~· Patrick llanifin Purebred was aw,akened by the da words I say. I no can tell what night. Security guards are so him all sharp objects including his sounds arising from under the dose squeegles mean." chewy and rapists so hard. But I letter opener. The Student Commission for 
table where Dr. Lucretia :Uorgia-The motion, if it was a motion, certainly would not want anything The Comision had intended to Loquacity failed for the fifth time 
Slud of the extraterrestrial biology died for lack of a second since most to contribute to the delinquency of make a formal reply to the veto or in as many meetings to resolve the 
department and Dr. Ahab S. of the SCL members were wat-squirrels." at least tell the president what they constitutional crisis caused by a 
Tudley, visiting lecturer on the ching a dogfight between paper Unpronounceable simply stated, thought of him but a point of order, motion to recall the motion to 
mind-body problem among the airplenes launched by Prof. "I'm glad dat da president has six burgers and a finger were challenge a ruling from the chair Trobiand Islanderswereinvolved in Camilia Magnolia of the fried seen da Way, da Trute an' da Light raised and the SCL voted ad­' on a point of order concerning a 
a meeting of the Special Sub-chicken department and her fiance an' come 'round to my poseetion on journment with its feet. point of personal privilege raised Committee to Discover a Homily Grits Professor Stokely da matter. Ya geeve dese stoonts The next meeting will be held the in regard to tabling a motion to 
Definition of "Flagrant, Perverse Cleavage. The dogfight was won one leetle goldfeesh an' dey gone next alternate Tuesday with a full ammend the ammendment to a 
or Repeated After Previous by Dean of Inquisition John take one deeg goreela." moon after the second Monday of a motion to cut off debate on an 
Warning" of the Ad Hoc Com-"Blackjack" Batlax with a The letter was date Apr. 1, 1967, month ending in "R" tailing appeal from the ruling of the chair 
mittee to Reform the Missi6nary brilliant display of precision receipt being delayed by the fact between the spring equinox and the on a point of order raised against a 
Position. spitball shooting. that it had been sent to the midsummer solstice or whenever 
motion to adjourn superseding During a discussion on a motion During the meeting SCL chairman on a dogsled by way of the Comition can get a quorum. without vote a motion to call the to convert the Holy Cross pizza chairman Franco "Gonzo" Grubbe IWIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIWUIIIUIIUIIIIIII..-rS IIIIII.IIIUIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIII roll to see if a quorum was present. ovens into laundromats so the read a letter from Fr. Theodosius 
0 h • d 
Debate was complicated by the campus squirrels can "clean up M(eyer) Goldberg, University 

n t e outs1 e· 
fact that also for the fifth time in a their act" (as student represen-president and World Savior e row a quorum was not present. tative Joe "Scratch" LeBoole vetoing a recent SCL proposal The meeting was held over spring suggested) Prof. R.V. "Rip Van" which would ha-ve legalized 
break in the back room of Busty 
Wankel asked the question, keeping pets on campus as long as Barbara's Beach Barbeque "Why'?" they were not "flagrant perverse 
In the spirit of 
Fr. Phrederico Macadangdang's or repetitive." Lauderdale. "If the Board of 
Barbecue Bikini Burgers at Ft. 
immediate reply, "Why not?" led Rejecting the proposal the Trustees can have meetings in 
to a debate on attaining true president said that it violates the Florida why can't we?" said one 
knowledge while confined to the standards of a Catholic University 

Frivolous Friday
flesh and on the possibility of (as clearly stated by the Lateran finding a non-greasy pizza in South Council of 1256). "If we let them on member who wished to preserve 

his anonymity. 
Bend. campus who knows what they may 

The lack of a quorum did not prevent the SCL from debating for 
Bro Jay -Unpronounceable took do at high noon on the main quad?" 

The Absurder 
this opportunity to deliver his Reaction to the letter was mixed. issue. "We can't allow 
two and a-halfhours on the crucial 
regular tirade on the press. "Dese "My reaction to the letter is technicalities like quorums to 
meetings, dey should be closed," mixed," said one member as she 

presents
he said. "We no want no one to stroked her boa constrictor. She the members of this great 
stand in the way of our vital duty to 
hear any of da kine top-secret did not want to be identified University Community, " Prof. 
\stuffs we gone talk 'bout. Tink wat because she still has relatives Quincy Purebred of the Anglo­
da squirrels might do if dey heard going to the University. Saxon Studies Program yawned 1dey goin' get laundered. 'Sides I no "McTavish here is very 
The Observer j 
Friday, April 18, 1975
the absurder
6 

letters to
sur 
er 


Editor: Thomas O'Neil Editorial Board: 
l'at llannifan, LEI Editor: 
(;rt'!(!( Bangs, .Jack-of-all-trades: 
1\hlllrt't'll Sajbel. Late-Night Coffee Editor: 
Chris Smith, Cutllne Editor 
Head Wizard: Fred Graver 

the Editor 
Dear Editor, I usually leave you people pretty 1\htun•en Flynn, Fashion Editor: 
1\lartha Fanning, Popcorn Editor: 

much to yourselves, but when you Katie'Kerwin, Non-Contributing 
start rappin' about Loneliness, Editor: 
man that's my scene. The old Silver Fox, man, he knows where 
liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.:lit's at if you w anna get into acne 
THE WAY IT IS 
It is sad, but tr,ue. The fact remains, and there is nothing that we can do about it. 
These recent actions give us no alternative, though the one recourse left open to us by the Administration is far from an adequate solution to the problem at hand. 
The situation is complex, and yet there is an inherent simplicity to it. It is broad in scope, though at its base it has a singluar intent. It is everything, and yet it is nothing. 
As it has been pointed out, time and time again, the University is going to have to change its orientation in this area, we are going to have to search for new ways of expanding our meager understandings of the complex problems at hand. 
But why does this sort of thing spring up in the first place? And how can the Board of Trustees be informed in time, before they make the important decisions that wi II undoubtedly be made, before they can ever be unmade. 
And then, it will be too late, and the job wi11. be left to Student Government. 
They have the willpower, but do they have the means? I am not sure. None of us can be, as it is impossible to predict the future. 
The Observer has tried to do its best in this area, but the student body, the faculty, and the administration, not to mention the countless members of the University staff, the ground crews and the countless number of people on the payroll, no--they won't listen. "Sure," they say, and no wonder, for "sure" is as 
"sure" does. That is a common sense piece of knowledge and wisdom, but in these times of unrest and widespread alienation of the students from anything else, it is a stance that cannot easily be swept away in the corner like confetti from last night's basketball game. 
The only recourse is to hand over the power where it will do the most good. And that is obvious, because we never say anything that isn't obvious. 
Do it today. Acquaint yourself with the issues, and be prepared to take firm and strong action. One ·never knows when, but always how. 
The Editorial Board 

and smelly shirts and all that. But 
you wanna see some real 
Loneliness? --then people you're 
lookin' at Him<Her? I'm not even 
sure.) in the ... well, no, I guess not 
in the flesh exactly ... Hell, anyway, 
let me iay a real Loneliness trip on 
ya. 

Some of you never had ~rothers 
or sisters--well you've got nothin' 
to kick about compared to Me. I 
never had an ol' man or ol' lady 
neither. All that TIME man and 
nothin' to do with it but dig bein' 
infinite and all-powerful. Man I 
•wanted to USE that power. And I did. I CREATED .... you. Just what I needed--a failure complex. I almost hit the bottle right there (or at least after I'd invented grapes and rye) --but Spirits and spirits, well we don't mix too well. 
You down there, you can be lonely in Times Square or the Notre Dame stadium, or the most crowded cocktail party. But Me, I can be Lonely in Times Square AND Notre Dame stadium AND the most crowded cocktail AND in any of an unlimited number of places ALL AT THE SAME TIME. Man, that's Loneliness. That even beats Bill's pimples and sour shirts. 
There's only one of you who really digs my case, people, and he has to write to me in the pages of a sleazy publication so full of typoxs I'm lucky they spell my name right. But the dog's cool. 
Well, I've let off my steam--just don't go hangin' another Loneliness gig on Me. Anyway, Ara and I never said we didn't love you. 
The Lonely God 
absurder features presents 
OUR MAN IN IRAN 
Unaware of an Administration decision of last Fall which combined the Foreign Study Program and the Off-Campus Lottery System, I discovered in April, '74 not only that I would be spending my junior year off-campus, but that I would be spending it in Iran. Unshocked at first by this hierarchy decision to remove me to a foreign climate <being the instigator of two dining hall food fights and guilty of not stitching my name 


/ 
Dear Editor, 

I am writing in response to the 
article run yesterday entitled 
"Dillon Hall to be re-named." The 
article claimed that the reason the 
Hall is to be re-named is because 
the Hall has been given a notorious 
reputation due to a subconscious 
connection which may imply that it 
has something to do with John 
I)illinger. 

But please.... why must it now 
be called Birch Hall? 
Our University Provost believes, 
as quoted in the article "that to 
negate the undisciplined con­
notation of John Dillinger we have 
chosen. instead, the disciplined 
connotation of John Birch." 
But I contend, being a liberal, 
that John Birch is just as notorious 
as Dillinger himself. I suggest 
another re-naming. A simple 
r.t>spelling of Birch is certainly 
unacceptable. <ah-hum). 
Sincerely, 
Fr. Ollie Williams 
?!* othfd 
Dejr 

Editor, . 
On re5p?nseE tu ferduwlsrop, ghekvob, it is not ture poetroe theesrson. 0 am completely disguestedd, by the lack of disgrtvcsion on the part of pqreutn, if you know what I mean. realy, how cen U ekspet metichtkle; 6784kgytjksllwith such a libelporihghs kk stuch von scheibbe? 
Sincjerty X.CURBE 
P .S. pleajemak zure therj no Typong errors . I ben dijtusged at het lac of scrotuny by :r,oru tsaff mumbesr. 
into my socks for the laundry service) my consternation was reserved for discovering that Iran was both without means of outside communication and Collegiate football (I will be able to deliver this letter into foreign hands only after relinquishing a can of Stroh's beer-you've seen the commercial?-­and my last two Doobie Bros. :-albums, , all being obvious delicacies in a barren wasteland). 
Understanding that the Administration was concerned with my atheism, I promptly expected the outcome of my "visit". I am being kept in the company of run-away <being an Arab world) Old Testament prophets (with the gift of Methusalah). Fasting is a necessary and forced preoc­cupation. I survive on air and the flesh of rodents. Contrary to all rumored im­plications there are no fleshpots in the nation of Iran. 

Included with this article should be candid pictures I have taken of my "stay" here in the land of unending excitement. But ex­
tomorrow! 

planation is unnecessary. Grossness of Attention! Tomorrow's -Absurder will 
culture is self-explanatory (although my feature the first in a NEW series of articles . 1-p_ic_t_u_re_w_ii_I_b_e_Ia_b_e_le_d_>_.-----·--­
obituary/
the year 

Obituary: It is with grief and sadness that the Absurder reports the death of Clytemestra von der Vogelweide who died of 
1n za1re 

!crucifixion by her family members when 
•--------------•she lost a spelling contest. 


\ Friday, April 18, 1975 the absurder 
world briefs 
TALLAHASSEE (UPI) -Two 5-year-old twin girls were poisoned, strangled, knifed and~ bludgeoned to death as they sat watching "Captain Kangaroo" yesterday morning. 
Investigators said the girls deserved everything they got. 
LOS ANGELES (UPI) ­Sharon Tate rose from the dead yesterday and promptly ap­pointed Charles Manson. the "new Messiah." Fr. James T. Burtchaell provost of the University of Notre Dame, was unavailable for comment on his earlier claims to the position. 
WATSEKA, Ill. (UPil -Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, president of the University of Notre Dame, spoke on world hunger in this midwest grain-producing village yesterday. 
Hesburgh, addressing a 
group of about 3,000 sunflowers, 
urged them to produce more 
seeds for ths starving peoples of 
southern Siberia and East 
Tibet. 
an campus 
today 

6 am--lecture, "significance of one plus one equals two in current administrative policies", by prof. Iuigi fibonacci, 4th floor restroom, third stall, stanford hall. 
1:30 pm--sports. bullfighting, grace hall chapel, $2.50 or two · large chickens. 
4:39 pm--colloquium, "ther­monuclelcdynoproteinaceousalk deousherblcides and social injustice", 226 comp. center. 6 pm--movie, the devil in sr. jones, moreau seminary, $1. 8 pm--panel discussion, "how to get a parking ticket In 5 minutes or less," by art pears, tony kovatch, and the ghost of j. edgar hoover, carroll hall, smc. 
8:30 pm--sports, underwater basketweaving, st. mary's lake. 11 pm--meeting, sic, under the dripping eaves of holy cross hall. 
11:30 pm--rap and heavy dialogue session, campus ministry, bulla shed. same time--parietals violation, same place as always. (see you 
there, terry! l 
Read This 

Raymond Pilch, University Sorin's original plans were to in­Director of Paint and Colored clude a purple Dome, but con­
Pencils, announced that the struction was stopped during the University is planning to paint the 1879 Lavender Embargo." Pilch 
Dome purple to match the added, "The pigeons will be LaFortune Ballroom ceiling. allowed to retain their present "This has not been a hasty color. If only we could do 
d£>cision" Pilch said. "Recent something about that white stuff.. research has indicated that Fr. " 
just a womens sports article 

The Women's basketball team defeated Kalamazoo 84-39 in a smashing win combining skill, talent and courage. Team captain Lois Lay-up completed an amazing 67 scores and even made two baskets. She was competently aided by the slick tricks of Donna Dribble and dirty tactics of Flora 
Make the dome your home 
by Katie Kerwin Staff Reporter 
Fr. John Mulcahy, director of University Housing, today an­nounced the ultimate solution to Notre Dame's housing problems. 
The proposal is a plan to convert either Grace or Flanner Tower into a female graduate residence. Since there are fewer women grad students presently living on campus than capacity number for one of the Towers, the plan would place incoming frsshman males in alternating sections and un­dergraduate women on alternating floors. 
The undergraduate women would be drawn from Breen­Phillips and Lyons Halls. The remainder of the students from these two halls would be con­solidated in Howard Hall. Residents of Howard would be shifted into the first and third floors of Lewis Hall, except for juniors, who would be distributed by sixes to each of the other dorms on campus. 
The remaining BP and Lyons women who do not fit into Howard would move into Morrisey triples. To compensate, all Morrissey singles would become triples and all doubles would be converted into singles. The eighteen Morrisey men left over would be given rooms in Corby Hall, the rest of 
·which would be used to house men 
displaced from their dorms by the 
Howard juniors. 
Graduate women evicted from 
Lewis would be given rooms in 
Pangborn Hall. All singles there 
would be made into doubles to 
accomodate the excess number, 
but those Pangborn residents still 
without rooms would be put on the 
second floor of Lewis. The original 
Lewis residents would retain 
kitchen privileges, walking across· 
campus to prepare meals and 
snacks. 
Former Corby residents would 
inha~it Breen-Phillips, along with 
former Tower residents whose 
names begin with the letters A -M 
and whose birthdays fall on 
Foul, each making 14 points. The Coach Jeanne Late explains that major point total however came they used new tactics. Everytime from the team mascot, Charlie the the ball went out of bounds, the Seal, who has an affinity for coach substituted a successively Basketballs and can make a basket smaller ball. Finally the teams <He took Higer for basket-· had to crawl around to find the weaving). minute object. "It may have not 
The story of their success lies in been legal, but we won and we're the however. Rah-rah keeping Notre Dame number one!" exclaimed Late. 
It was a close game, with Notre Dame gaining the lead only in the last period when the first basket was scored. Bessie BluenoSE\ a 205 lb. Kalamazoo guard, stole the ball from Charlie, but the combined effort of the Irishettes tackeled her. Unfortunately the referee called clipping and penalized them ten feet. Then Amazin' Amy Anderson dribbled up mid-court, jumped on Lay-Up's shoulders and dunked one. "It may not have been legal, but we won andwe're keeping Notre Dame number one!" exclaimed Lafe. 
This win puts the Women's team in the national finals for mid­
...:: Western Female Discriminated Colleges. They are slated to play St. Mary's College. "It may not be legal, but we'llwin and keep Notre Dame number one!" exclaimed Late. 
Monday, Wednesday, or Friday room for all the people moved out this year. The remaining Tower of Holy Cross to provide rooms for men would be given rooms in all the other people left over. Dillon Hall. All students still lacking rooms 
· Alumm rooms would wlll be issued pup tents andhouse students pushed out of allotted a space in Green Field, all Fisher to make room for students with no raise in room and boardpushed out of Badin to make room rates.
for students pushed out of 
After one year, the UniversityCavanaugh to make room for proposes to have completed a new students pushed out of Keenan in residence structure. No plans,ord~r to provide Darby O'Gill with site, or financial arrangementshis own private suite of rooms, · have been made yet. When it is including sa una and billiard ready for occupancy, everyone will facilities. 
switch again and Keenan will be Stanford residents, not to be left converted into a female dorm, 
out, would be doubled up to make Zahm will be re-converted to a 

853 SMiCs fight to replace dog 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 
An unprecedented 853 St. Mary's students swarmed the Student Government office yesterday in their bid to file nomination petitions for the post of vice president of miscellaneous affairs, a position left vacant when the former vice president, Earl the Watchdog, was declared unfit for office. 
According to Election Com­missioner Kretchel Krombelbach, students will have until midnight tonight to enter the race. She would not comment on the number of nominees expected to apply today. 
"We just don't know what to do with all these nominees; just trying to write up a ballot for the primary is going to take all night," she stated. 
The Commissioner noted that, up until this election, a position was rarely contested, and that the number of nominees received "was entirely unexpected." 
Former student government head, Jane Garnett, outspoken for 

In a meeting held the other night sometime SLC' voted to decrease its membership to one in order that a decision ~Could be made before the end of the semester. The spokesperson for the group Mr. Og Wash stated that the decision has not been reached yet as to who will remain as the lone member of the group. 
In a strictly advisory capacity 422 individuals will be appointed as ex~fficio members. "We hope to get some kind of a representative group to gather sometime so that her comments against student apathy and responsible for the restructuring of student govern­ment to wipe out apathy from within its ranks, could give "no comment," when questioned regarding the situation. 
One student government leader commented that apathy was the original cause of the situation now facing the organization. 
According to this source, who wished to remain anonymous, a poster seeking nominees for miscellaneous affairs office, was placed near the exit of the SMC dining hall and left unsigned until it fell off the wall. Earl the Watchdog, Security's mascot, then came in from a walk through the mud and accidentally placed his 
pawprint on the first line of the voster. 
Student government officials, she contended, accepted Earl's print as a valid signature, and awarded him the position following an election in which he received 5 votes in favor of, and none opposed to his service in student govern­ment. 
However, certain members of 
the party budget can be used up," 
Wash stated. 
·a:>-eld a11-e1 u-eJ · l!unaaw -e qJns aJaq& pue uaq& appap 01 AlJJOl{lne aq1 seq oq& 
aJns s~ auo ou 1a.\ JO se 1nq dn 1as 

Academic Council
S! 8unaaw Jaq10ue se uoos se sue1d J!aq1 azneuu II!M aamwwo:> aq~ 
As usual this organization has not done enough to run a long article on them so this short filler paragraph made up of one or two sentences is necessary. Have a nice day. 
..Erratum 
In an Absurder article sometime last year, freshman mid­dlelinebacker Ambrose "Crusher" Leech was incorrectly identified as the Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. In addition A & L Dean Frederick Croston was mistakenly labelled Director of Dining Hall Services and misquoted as saying that Leech faced possible suspension if his study habits continued to be erotic. Croston actually used the word "erratic." 
...Erratum .. 
In the Absurder erratum run today sophomore place-kicker 
Ambrose  "Crasher"  Leech  was  
incorrectly identified  as  a  fresh­ 
man defensive end.  

...Erratum .. 
In the other Absurder erratum today, it was incorrectly stated that Sophomore place-kicker Ambrose "Crusher" Leech was mistakenly identified as a fresh man defensive end. Leech wall actually falsely labelled as a fresh man middle-linebacker. However it has since been discovered tha Leech is a student at IUSB and not Notre Dame. · male dorm, and Farley will Qe re­re-convverted to a female'dorm ...they think. 

All present parietals will be maintained during the next year, regardless of the situation:"' 
"We believe this new plan will be beneficial to everyone concerned," Mulcahy stated. 
"The b£>auty of the situtation is that we add 500 new students without adding new housing or forcing anyone off-campus," Fr. Joyce concurred. "Although a student may not receive a room, no one will make him leave the campus." 
the administration allegedly voiced complaints upon learning that the position had gone to a male. 
"If he had been female, no one would have noticed, or even cared," Garnett commented. 
At a closed-door hearing on the subject later last week, the Board of Regents, together with representatives from ad­ministration, faculty, students, academic affairs, student affairs, human affairs, community affairs, public affairs, intellectual affairs, and canine affairs, declared Earl as unfit for office, ordered jhis immediate removal from office, and demanded that a new vice president for miscellaneous affairs be elected. 
Campus observers claim that many students, outraged at the past two week's proceedings, are filing nomination petitions in protest. 
"I'm just sick of all the noise and commotion on campus, and just want to be able to go back to the way it (campus life) was before this. Actually, if I had known that all these others <students) felt the same way I did, I'd never even have bothered to come down here," said one student waiting in line to file her petition. 
The primary for the election is slated for next Tuesday, and the run~ff is on Wednesday, according to Krombelbach. 
passes calendar 
by Oscar Award-Winnt'r 
In an overwhelming vote y£>c;terday, the Academic Council vott>d to adopt the Hesburgh r£>vised version of the Gregorian calendar. The newly accepted bill will start school April 13 so as to takt> advantage of the Emil T. holiday. 
Th£> Absurdt>r reporter went roving about to find out what effect the new calendar will have on the students. Farquar Schwartz, from Nimrod, PA. was t>lated over the r£>sults. "Under the new calendar. which is 600 days a year, I'll be ablt> to graduate when I'm a sophomore." 
Ed Burned, dubious elected official of the students. was invited to mt>et with the Academic Council to discuss the Gregory calendar with an t>xpert from Washington. Burned surprised the council when ht> appeared at the mt>eting to prest>nt the t>xpert with a· new .sports auto. a gift from the Sports Car Club of which he is a member. Wh£>n questioned about his sur­prising move, Burned replied, "I nPver said I wouldn't go." 
Hadical leftists. unhappy about lhl' nt'w calendar. showed their disapproval by dropping their bubblegum in the sidewalks at t•xactly noon of every day. Security described the scene as being calm but "a very sticky situation." 
The Far-mid south accrediation was certain to approve the move as all the "big eleven schools" are almost sure to add it. 

~~~~ver 

P. 0. Box Q
--·-----·--------------­--­
attitudesof present 

Founded November 3, 1966 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief 
lob ZOiaJ Business ManajCer 
Bob McManus Advertisin1 Manacer 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
AI Rutherford. Managing Editor; Fred Graver. Executive Editor; Jim Eder, Ed,itorial Editor Kl'n Girouard. News Editor; Pat t-ianilin. Campu9 Editor; Mary Janca, St. Marys Edotor K<'n Bradford. Copy Editor; Bill Brink. Sports Editor; TomoO'Neil. Features Editor lhris Smith. Photo Editor 
Bu•in•n: 281-7~71
Editori~lo: 2111~1 
Friday,' April 18, 1975 

Hard Head 
Ht>ar Editor: 

The truth can now be revealed: l<'ord did not, as Lyndon Johnson hypothesized, play too much football without a helmet. New studies have shown conclusively . that his deficiency is, in point of fact. due to his mother's Oxford Book· of English Vt>rst> (hard­hound l falling on his head when he was a junior in high school. 
By his own profession, he has read no books since. Some have suggt>sted that it was a Norton Anthology that beaned our hapless I 'resident. but respect for the elder Mrs. Ford demands that we assum(' only the best. Why bong vour son with a Norton when the (lxford would do as well? 
the observer
Curriculum 
Night Editor: Rick Blower
Referendum Assistant Night Editor: Gregg Bangs Layout Staff: Slats
Dear Editor: Day Editor: Mary Egan, Maureen FlynnIt has this day been brought to Copy Reader: Kathy Mills our attention that on Tuesday, Editorials: John AmanteaApril 22, the Academic Council will Features: Tom O'Neil vote on a proposal which will Sports: Bill Brinkeliminate the Preprofessional Typists: Jim Landis, Camillecurriculum, as such. There ap­Arrieh, Rick Huber, Don Roos, pears to be many inadequacies in Anne Peelerthis proposal, especially regarding Compugraphic: John Kuhnthe accurate surveying of the Night Controller: AI Rutherford Late Typist: David Rust 

'There is only one
IYou don't 

real community,live in a w rid the community of
Towards One Earth
all alone.' 
andy winiarczyk 
"\'ou don't live in a world all alone.  World languish in povt>rty'? Should  them to deny another people the  
Your brotht>rs are here too."  we cultivate our,own gardens not  resources that they so desperately  
daring to peer beyond the limits of  need to survive.  
With these words Albert Sch­ our own finite shores? Or should  And to those regions of the world  
weitzer, the noted humanitarian,  we wring our hands and say simply  that lack some remarkable  
accepted the Nobel Peace Prize in  that the world is such a bad placr  resource or a marvelous metal we  
1952. With these words we should  and we are really quite sorry that  have just as great an obligation to  
come to the realization that we as  this state of suffering exists?  consider them part of our larger  
individuals,we as members of the  In my estimation we would be  family. The gains that will be ac­ 
Notre Dame community we as  making a grievous error to  crued by helping others will now  
members of the Western World are  seriously pursue the thought of  show up in profit margins. But in  
not alone. We often forget that  looking inward and attempting to  the long run these gains may be far  
outside! of our personal world  devoid ourselves of interest in the  more significant than the mere  
there are billions of other human  shrinking world that surrounds us.  acquisiton of money. Our in­ 
beings. Boeing 747's, television, and  Both our sense of morality and our sense of self-interest in the  dependence could not have been secured from Britain were it not  
Intercontinental Ballistic . Missiles  shrinking world that surrounds us.  for the aid of '.Jreign powers  
with nuclear warheads have  Both our sense of morality and our  coming to rescue a very un­ 
shortened the distances of the  sense of self-interest should dictate  derdeveloped country in the New  
globe but have failed to truly bring  to us that we would be very wrong  World. Twice during the course of  
us closer. Our generation was fed  in ignoring all those who belong to  the twentieth century we came to  
the gratuitious slaughter that was  the developing nations. Each  the aid of those t.hM had helped us  
Vietnam for dinner by Chet  passing year makes the world  two centuries before. Who can say  
Huntley and David Brinkely. Yet  increasingly interdependent. As  with surety that Amefica at some  
scenes of senseless starvation in  national concerns extend beyond  point in the future will not be  
West Africa and the Asian sub­ borders we become more aware  saved from imminent collapse by  
continent do not even begin to  that if one country sneezes another  those who require much from us  
bring the edge of sadness to many  is sure to catch an economic cold.  now.  
of our hearts. The most poignant  If we learned anything from the  
of photographs can still leave  recent Arab oil embargo it should  Epidemic starvation is not the  
people numb. For the dimensions  have been more than the simple  sole problem that affects our less  
of the crisis are so vast it becomes  knowledge that the newest  fortunate brothers and sisters  
rasy to throw up our hands and say  capitalists had learned only too  throughout this, the one earth. It is  
that the problem is too immense to  well from Western business  the focal point of the whole painful  
even try to cope with. We exorcise  practices. It should prove how  state that billions are now  
the sorrow and the pity of the world  very much we need each other;  presently existing in.  
in our midst by trying to believe  how very much we need to  
that it is taking place in another  cooperate with each other. Though  To turn our backs on the  
country. it cannot affect us, and  it may be possible to become  anguish that is part of the  
besides ·it cannot happen here.  completely self-sufficient in  universal human conditions is not  
After all we live in "Fortress  energy in years to come that oil  only selfish but foolish as well.  
America" protected by our cor­ can and must be used for the  Those less privileged than our­ 
porations, our factories, and our  benefit of mankind. At least for the  selves do not need hollow words  
farms from the daily disaster that  present we need their oil, they need  from hollow men, empty promises  
envelops 80 per,cebt of' this planet.  our technical expertise; and all of  from empty hearts. We should not  
Though this is not the best of all  us need Columbian bauxite and  look down upon the inhabitants of  
possible worlds few of us on this  South African diamonds-to name  the Third World as global welfare  
campus have ever faced real  but two of our earth's vital  recipients. We should not partake  
hardship. We have never lacked  resources. By the time that this  of rice and tea once a semester  
for the essentials. No nation has  millenium passes into eternity  and then feel that we have done all  
been so blessed in achieving af·  fourteen of the basic metal  that is in our power to save a large  
fluence to the degree we have.  resources that we need to sustain  portion of the human race from  
How should we react to the  our modern society will be con­ physical death and emotional  
knowledge that we live in the  trolled by the developing nations.  despair. We should commit our­ 
comparitive lap of luxury while the  We simply cannot afford pettiness  selves to the global community as  
overwhelming number of our sisters and brothers in the Third_  on the part of nations---either large or small-when it comes to allowing  .a part of the natural order of things.  


preprofessional students. The executive members of the un­dersigned organizations feel that a deeper consideration of student opinion should be solicited. 
With this in mind, a petition directed to the members of the Academic Council has been drawn up. This petition requests that the Council defer action on the proposal until a broader base of student opinion can be obtained. 
By writing this letter, we are asking that all Preprofessional students sign the petition in the Preprofessional Studies office, Rm. 239 Niewland Science Hall today. Signing the petition does not in any way commit a student, but merely requests the defer­ment of action by the Council. Considering the seriousness and implications of the proposal, we indeed hope that the response will be strong. Thank you. 
Prt>professional Student Advisory Council Alpha Epsilon Delta 
Pre-Med Society 
mankind.' 
carlas paz de arauja 
lmagint> tht>re is one earth. A spaceship, or a garden where not just flow(•rs grow. Then it would not be too difficult to enter the world of others. It would be as if you were moving around in a spact>ship--cht>cking every compartment, looking out the windows, or as if you wt>re walking through an abandoned garden. A walk you cannot afford to take alone. The important thing to rerrlt>mber is that no matter how wide the variety of things that you see around ~·ou, tht>re is only one spaceship. 
This oneness is not a limitation, and it was never intended to be. In fact. it is analogous to the trend of creation itself: to Pxpand towards oneness. Man cannot be separated from this process, unless ht> wants to be separated from his humanity. The truth about tht> existence of only one earth and only one God, ferments the thought that there should be only one people. There is only one real community, the community of mankind. 
But the fact that then• is only one garden and only one human race to receive the fruits from it, does not mean that everyone is able to pick the flowers. Some pick all and leave the weeds for others. Perhaps this is because everyone first learns how to add, lht>n to divide. Divisions are made only between those who added the most and those who are still struggling with fractions. 
In the day to day demands we tend to fabricate a world of our own. With walls of isolation to secure our meager existence. With somt> "idiology of loneliness" to make us comfortable with our solitude. This pattern of individualism is what fragments our community and crumbles our oneness. It is a fabricated world bt>cause it is apart from history. It is apart from the ongoing humanization of man. It denies the sharing that is so essential to life. In short. it traps us to become unaware of the historicity of man arrd the necessity of a community toqualify it. 
If wt> art> Christians we should be able to feel the necessity of a community of mankind to a greater extent. Knowing that there is only ont> Father demands the feeling that allmen are brothers. Tht> question is: How can we afford to let the other members of the crew go on without food when the security of all the spaceship depends on the wrlfare of all? The 1answt>r'~s: Fight hunger. But do not say "Fight hunger", instead say "Fight hungerrrrrrr" and grit your teeth, so that others would know that your claim is also political and not boldly humanitarian. You feel the hunger pains of those who suffer and you want to change the structures that make tht>m suffer. You do not bother with egotistical eha.rity. You want true charity. the one that does not betray justice. 
To move on toward one earth is not hard to imagine. To move on toward one community is hard. It takes action. At this point in history. the earth can no longer stand as an abandoned garden. There is no more room for weeds and the season of flowers is just around the corner. The step is to move on together and not to take the walk alone. The thought to keep in mind is: "If one earth, who not one people?" 
Friday, April 18, 1975 

-
Letters to a Lonely 
the wounds of the unicorn 

reverend robert 
griffin 
I have a ceramic unicorn that sits on a table beside my desk; he watches me, as I write, out of the corner of his eye. Once in a while, he seems to turn his head. Catching a glint of light on his horn, I imagine he has moved, yet I never see him stirring. He sits there very primly on his haunches, still and erect, with his head pulled in and down, like a marine who has been called to stand to attention. He is a very handsome unicorn, · and he known I admire him. I don't know whether he admires me, or not. 
I am very fond of my ceramic unicorn; he, of all the unicorns I have collected, is the most worthy to be the symbol of Christ. In the mediaeval bestiaries, the unicorn was understood to be the symbol of Christ, Christ being the spiritual Unicorn, it was thought, mentioned in the Benedictus: "God has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of His servant, David." My ceramic unicorn is very Christ-like, I think, except, unlike the glass figures of my collection, he does not reflect the light. But he is chaste and gentle and full of beauty. He is also very formal. I would never think of going barefoot in his presence, and I never let him see when I am wearing a dirty T-shirt. 
Formality is a handicap in a unicorn, I think, if that unicorn is looked up to as a symbol of Christ. 
Unicorns, seen in their formality as mediaeval symbols of Christ, are very remote from our age. But, as a con­temporary symbol, how about a figure seen in a gay bar? Before being annoyed with me, reflect on some words dimly remem­bered from Prince Myshkin, Dostoyevsky's Idiot, about the followers of Christ who took Him down from the Cross: "It must have been very difficult for them to see the image of God," said Myshkin, "in the broken figure of an executed criminal." <These were not Myshkin's words, perhaps, but that, when I try to remember them, is what 
they sound like to me.) 
Last evening, about nine o'clock, I got a phone call from the Ombudsman's office: a chap had called, the Ombudsperson said, asking to be put in touch with the campus chapter of the Gay Alliance. Did I have the name or Uie number of some contact in the Gay Alliance whom the caller could speak to? The Ombudspeople have always been close friends, helpful to me; I am always happy when I can be useful to them. They envisioned the caller, I think, as a soul in trouble, reaching out for help to a group who could offer sympathy and advice. Anyway, I got on the phone; after many phone calls to people who didn't answer or whose lines were busy, I reached a student who was willing to handle the S.O.S. Then there wf'rf' more phone calls, establishing com­munication between the gay student and the distressed soul. Finally ,sometime after ten 
o'clock, I got a report on what the call was about. 
"It was not very important," the gay student said. "Some guy who's a stranger in town was looking for the address of the local gay bar. I really felt let down," he said. "I was prepared to offer him some in-depth counselling." 
I felt somewhat ill-used myself. However I define my role as the University Chaplain, it is not as a referral agency to the gay bars in town. I have never heard anyone speak well of the gay bars. The very phrase seems a synonym for a sad place to be, frequented by demi-mondaines whose sexual options seem to leave them with only sad lives to live. I would never knowingly furnish anyone with the address of a gay bar, any more than I would recommend the hookers' havens I have heard tell of on 42nd street. But when people call, asking for information, you have no other choice than to trust them. 
I am sorry to seem snobbish or moralistic 

ONVER5ATICN 
an 

Tlw idt>a o£ printing exct>rpts from long t·nn\·t>rsations. almost verbatim, struck me as sonwthing worth doing. Sooner or later, tht• things that a pt>rson rt>ally wants to say lt>nd to t'IIIPrgp in a conversation, perhaps bt•t•ausl' thl'rt' is not the worry or having to rnuud orr and polish a thought, that it can n•main valid in its rough form. 
This couvrrsation was held on April 15, l!lni. bt>twt>l'n nusty Hoach, a sophomore ,\rts aud Lt>ttt>rs major. John Amantea, a junio•· English Major, and myself. Also attt>nding was my roommate, who didn't say an~'lhing and prt'£prs to remain anonymous. 1\lusic was by tht' Grateful Dead. 
1£ rPactio.; is good, this will continue Wt'l'kly. varying the personnel to fit in any nnmbt>r of interpsting people within the sPriPs. Spontanaeity is tht' key. I guess. 
J: It's the worst thing that you can call somebody--an artist. Tossing that word around. You take someone like the kid from the Eastman School of Music at the Jazz festival--the composer. Okay, you can call him an artist. 
If you take all the artists that you can think of in your head, and put them in one realm, you're putting in Leonardo Da Vinci, Michaelangelo and then ... Suzi Quatro? It doesn't jive. The word gets tossed around too much. 
D: But you know, that's a problem with words. Every word we speak of is just so concept-laden, it's unbelievable. You know, two thousand years from now it's really gonna be incredible. Anybody will be an artist. 
F: It's like Andy Warhol says: "An artist is anybody who does art; art is anything that an artist does." This is art. We're artists now. <Laughs) 
J: But we can't believe that we are. Because if we believe that we are, we start talking like ARTISTS and not like we do. That's what happened to Brian Wilson. 
D: Do you mean that the artist has to be unconscious of what he's doing? 
J: When you write something, or if you're going to compose something, the person is composing. Not "the person The Artist-­The Artist the person" composes. You don't 
experiment in discourse 
lose yourself, you don't divorce. It's you and your guitar, not you assuming the ARTIST and then assuming the guitar. 
D: Take somebody like Fitzgerald, somebody who got into drinking a lot, any of the great artists who got involved in drinking or dope or anything like that. I bet that they started to think of themselves then as ARTISTS. And then--that's when they cease to function. 
J: That's what happened to guys like Ray Charles, Brian Wilson, Ray Charles, great records. 1958 Newport Jazz Festival with Jack Teagarden, and Brian Wilson with the early Beach Boys albums. Brian Wilson sitting on a beach and just humming "east coast girls are hip ... " Nothing to it. And it just hits. Then someone tells him, "Brian Wilson, you're a genius." What comf's out? Carl and the Passions. 
F: I see it like the Peter Principle. What society does with artists is to raise them to their level on incompetence. In­stitutionalize them. Read Ben Shahn's "Shape of Content," there's a lecture tht>re on being an artist within an academic setting. 
He says it's very hard to do. The University wants to fund you, the University wants to pay for this and that. But then they'll say, "Oh, but that painting's a little ... well, we wouldn't want to say anything ... " And it starts to have an effect. What we do to our artists in to move them up. 
Nobody can be what society considers an artist. It's just impossible. You become an enigma. But you aren't functional. 
Dylan moves sideways. People say "play some more rock and roll, more stuff like Highway 61," and what does he do-­Nashville Skyline. 
J: The Dylan thing, you know, he's more than an entertainer. I don't know if I'd call him an artist. I'm not sure I can convince myself yet if he is. One man that I do think is an artist, a man who plays a guitar, Garcia. Like that whole fourth side of the Skull and Roses live album. "Going Down the Road and Not Fade Away." There it is. That's the unnameable emotion that art bestows. You can feel it in the way he plays, 
about gay bars; but as a priest concerned about healing the gaping wounds of sexuality, I've never heard that gay bars help. Gay people tell you that the bars don't help. To tell the truth, I don't know what does help, except maybe people helping people. All of us, at times--boys and girls, men and women, old crones and grand­fathers--fell the thorn in the flesh. Our sexuality teases and torments us; the tension between the flesh and the spirit grows unbearable, and we fear that lust will cost us the loss of our decency. Prayer and fasting don't cast the demons out; and even with the sacraments, we still fell promiscuous; but we are not much tempted to try either cold water showers or ice water enemas. So our consciences are uneasy with guilt until we have found ways of making a separate peace with a con­cupiscence that is inseparable from the 
human condition. 
In honesty, we want to be, and need to be, sexual creatures. My sexuality is one of the glorious ways in which I'm alive. Even when my sexual energies seem most treacherous, I thank God for the life of the flesh by which a touch or a glance between lovers can be a language as full of meaning as a book of sonnets. But of course I am not writing here of lovers, but of all the lonely people who suffer a fear of the beast that is neither tamed nor gentled. 
Sexuality, then, is a hangup that all of us 
have. We frequently feel it as a wound when 
it is merely an undisciplined energy of the 
flesh that the heart and the mind have not 
yet dealt with. It is not being sexual that 
wounds us. It is the misuse of our sexuality 
that wounds us, but that is a whole other 
Letter. 
Every time I begin writing about 
sexuality, I am embarrassed, because I 
don't begin to know the ways I sound naive. 
But sometimes I do write about sexuality because I am moved by the needs students bring to me; especially, lately, I have been moved by the problems that gay students bring. It is never easy to bear the burden of being different. For them, as for me and for all of us, their sexuality is a special mystery. I guess it is naive to refuse to be silent in the face of mysteries, but if a word of encouragement from me can help a friend, I can't refuse to help him. I am sure that the final word has not been spoken by us Christian about our human sexuality. I am certain that the final words have not begun to be spoken about homosexuality. 

Even in the revelation made to apostles and fishermen, even after two thousand years of the Christian tradition, there were mysteries of sexuality that awaited the coming of Freud and Jung. There are still mysteries of sexuality waiting for this old Church of ours to deal with. In the mean­time, the suffering goes on, and there is guilt and fear and shame, and there is a tragic misuse of a sexuality that is meant to lift us into the love of God. 
We see images of the redeeming Lord in crucifixes and unicorns, whether of ceramic or made of glass. We see Him in the sick, the old, the dying, and the little children. But is He not there in the place where we least expect to find Him, in the gay bars of the 1 own. as a stranger looking for a friend? 
Think of the words of Prince Myshkin, and remember that it is not always easy to see God's image. 
Does the stranger know whose Cross he 
follows? 

"He follows nobody's cross," you say, 
"unless, like the old people and the children, 
he is innocent." 
But if we can't recognize God because of 
moral guilt, as the disciples couldn't see 
Him through the wounds, how can we really 
be sure He isn't there? 
I don't know if it's in his Telecaster or what, ' started to write SomPthing Happened. but every note or every riff on Garcia hangs .. Everybody had their eyes focused on Mike 
It's memorable, for one thing. And it's arranged so perfectly. It rings. 
I don't want to set a criterion here. Not that an artifact has to ring. You'll see guys with bells on. Artists. But what if they believe that shit? 
n: There's millions of people who do. 
J: The whole point: are they artists or are they vermin? It's just like a freshman comp and lit teacher. Say a grad student. He reads a good paper, you see, and he says to the kid, "You should keep writing, you should do this and that, you could be better than Steinbeck, better than Hemingway." Somebody once told me this. What would have happened if I would have believed him? Well, I could have gone around believing that, but what about the final divorce. I get out of here and find out that I can't do shit. Really. A teacher has to be very, very careful with his encouragement. 
It's hard not to believe it. If you do, it's harmful. 
D: Emily Dickinson didn't have anything published until after she was dead. Her letters were metaphors, about her poetry. She couldn't divorce herself from it. 
She stayed a great poet, a great artist. Her last stuff is her greatest stuff. 
J: She didn't divorce herself from her poetry. She divorced herself from Emily Dickinson, you see. What I'm saying is she didn't worry herself about how Emily Dickinson would look on the street. There was no Emily Dickinson image. No set pose or profile. It was Emily Dickinson's work. 
D: Look at Joseph Heller. What was it, sixteen years between novels? Ten years? I'll bet he didn't start to write a novel right away after ('atch-22. just so people would forget Joseph Heller. So that he could create a new book all by himself. So that it would be the same guy writing the book. Not the artist, not the writer of ('atch-22. 
F: After ('atch-22, people were clamoring for Heller to do more. Do short pieces, short works of non-fiction. Heller was smart enough to turn these things down. I have a feeling that once he got rid of the movie rights, dumped those off, was when he 
fred graver 

Nichols. 
D: Okay, we have Heller. But I think that his thing is contrived, that he knows that he has to hold back. But look at someone like Faulkner. Wrote so many great things in such a short time, and kept them coming. There are some people who can do it, who are above the artist label. Hemingway. It took eighteen years between for For Whom the Bell Tolls and The Old Man and the Sea. These people were above being submerged in the labels. 
J: In Heller's time, though, there's a movie, there's everybody and his brother clamoring for him to write something. Appearances on television shows. Faulkner never had to worry about talk shows. 
F: 
Ginsberg has said that he can make his living from television appearances. Bill himself as "America's Best Loved Poet." But he stays away because of the effect of television, the fact that he may end up saying things that he doesn't believe. 

F: 
What about Ferlenghetti's reading here? 


People said that it was cliched. But, hell, he's the person who invented that certain cliche. And there is still something to be derived from that cliche. Is someone going to complain because somebody reads from the Odyssey, just because it's been done before. Ferlenghetti is bringing to us what he knows, and what is still vital to him. And he'd look like a fool if he tried to imitate the poets working now. 
D: All I can remember is Ferlenghetti's own statement, "Poets become engrained in the society. Just become ingested. Their ideas become swallowed up after a while." 
F: You talk about Dylan, Tom Hayden or Dave Dellinger, Marcuse. A radical's ideas are good for about three years, and that time is decreasing. That's our society. We have an incredible tendency to ac­celerate the artist. 
J: A guy like Hayden, let's say, it's tragic. Gets involved with Hoffman and Rubin, who don't take the whole thing seriously, whose tradition is out of the Marx Brothers. Hayden is sincere, but how is he gonna go up against those two guys. It falls apart. The tragic thing is that students get killed. Students who believe get killed. 

':t.
!t:

-10 the observer Friday, AprlllB, 1975 .Part of housing plans 
Rooms 
by Kathy Skiba Starr Reporter 
Nan Blais, SMC Housing Coordinator, announced yesterday that 70 rooms were frozen as part of the room selection procedure for the '75-'76 school year. 
Students were given the option of keeping the same room for the upcoming year, provided that all occupants wished to do so, on Monday, Aprill4. Due to an article in the Observer which incorrectly listed that date for room freezing, Blais extended the room freezing period to office hours on Tuesday and Wednesday. 
The 70 rooms frozen include 42 singles-24 in Regina, 10 in LeMans and 4 in both Holy Cross and McCandless Halls. Fifteen doubles were frozen--7 in Holy Cross and 4 in LeMans and McCandless. Two 
frozen 
triples, located in LeMans and McCandless, were frozen, as well as the Tower Room of LeMans. 
A total of 84 beds was reserved. 
Lotteries were held by class to determine the order in which students will select rooms on Wednesday, April 16. 
Commenting on the lotteries, Blais mentioned that "all went in an orderly manner. There was a general enthusiasm prevailing, but it was orderly excitement, not mass chaos." 
Blais noted that although very many high numbers were picked, several low numbers were not. Therefore, a student with number 498 will not necessarily be the 498th to choose a room in her class. 
atSMC 
In addition, groups of rooms will not be blocked off for incoming freshmen as was done last year, but all rooms not frozen will be open for selection. 
"People really don't have to worry about getting into a room they don't want," said Blais. 
Room selection is slated to run from Monday, April 21 through Thursday, April 24. At 6:30 each evening rooms will be selected according to class in the student affairs area of Le Mans. 
Upcoming seniors will choose rooms on Monday and upcoming juniors on Tuesday, upcoming sophomores with numbers through 150 will choose on Wednesday and the remainder of sophomores on Thursday. 
McGuiness and Callahan win 
•
sen1or, junior presidencies 
Paez, vice-presid ·nt; PatriceKathy McGuiness and Cindy Rooney, secretary; and LindaCallahan were elected senior and Seymour, treasurer. The
junior class presidents in SMC run­off elections yesterday. McGuiness ticket defeated Kathy 
Bealieu, Ann McEleny, Anne 
Elected with McGuiness on the Samuelson, and Suzanne Fitz­senior class ticket were Racquel myer. 
O:mbuds:man Award open to no:mination 
the norm and whose ability to work 
The Ombudsman Advisory with others is beyond question. In 
Board is soliciting nominations for short, the individual must be 
!hi:' first annual Ombudsman concerned about the development 
Award. Forms and further details 'of a better community which 
arl:' available in the Ombudsman Office on the second floor of LaFortunl:'. All nominations are dul:' back by Monday, April 21 by 5 
p.m. at thl:' Ombudsman Office. The Ombudsman Award is intended to recognize an individual 
whose efforts and contributions in non-academic endeavors exceed 
St. Mary's, ND 
host· this year's CRC meeting 
Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame will host the annual meeting of the Central Renaissance Conference <CRC> April 17-19. 
Dr. Cyriac K. Pullapilly, associate professor of history at Saint Mary's, and the Reverend James F. Flanigan, CSC, associate professor of art at Notre Dame, are serving as co-chairmen of the three-{jay event. This year's theme is "East and West in the Renaissance." 
More than 200 scholars from all over !hi:' United States will attend the conference. 
realizes and deals with the needs of 
all of its members. 
The nominations will be 
reviewed by a screening com­
mittee made up of three OAB 
members whose final recom­
mendations will be voted on by the 
entire membership of the Om­
budsman Advisory Board. The 
committee consists of Dr. Lillien 
Stanton, Dr. Peter Grande and Dr. 
Robert Ackerman. 
The ombudsman Advisory 
Board, hoping to find the best candidate, is opening upnominations to the entire campus community in addition to over one hundred requested recom­mendations from various ad­ministrative, staff, and student sources. It is the feeling of the OAB that with the participation and cooperation of the Notre Dame community that the Ombudsman Award will achieve its stated aim of recognizing an outstanding graduating senior for his or her overall contribution to ND. 
The winner of the award will be announced on April 30 in the Ob­server and will receive a letter of commendation and small remembrance from the OAB. 
Also elected with Callahan were Shannon Hanrahan, vice-president; Colette Morfoot secretary; and Janie Schiltz' trasurer. The Callahan ticket defeated Sally Obringer, Karen Callaghan, Maureen Coath and Tara Carey. 
Katie Kearney, election com­misioner, pointed out that 206 juniors, about 50 percent of the class, voted yesterday. She stated that 187 sophomores, about 40 percent of the class, also voted. 
"Interest has probably waned since this is a run-off," Kearney noted. About 65 percent of the eligible student body voted Tuesday in the primary election. 
There was no run-off for sophomore class elections since the ticket of Terease Chin, Karen Chiames, Mary Esther Hall, and Pam Waldner was elected Tt•esday. 
Kearney also stated that hall elections would be held after the room picks operation has been completed. 
STEWART MCGUIRE SHOES 
With the Spring Step cushion 
l 
DAD&FAMILY 503 N. Blaine Ave. So. Bend 234-4469 
-,. . . 

Positions Available 
University Judicial Boord University Appeals Boord 
Call 7668 for Interview 

OM 
SYSTEM 

FRONTIER DRIVE-IN 

ON STATE ROAD 23 BETWEEN KROGER'S AND THE DISTILLERY 
NOW OPEN! 
THIS WEEKEND FEATURING
* 994 TENDERLOIN BASKETS 
WE SERVE ONLY FRESH GROUND BEEF IN OUR HAMBURGERS 
----------------·· 
''THE PAN'' DEEP DISH PIZZA 
Appointment 

OLYMPUS Niles store: OM-I MD 

fl.8 lens 
Chrome Body 
WARM ATMOSPHERE GOOD PEOPLE QUIET LITURGY SUFFICIENT SUPPER' TONIGHT & EVERY FRIDAY 5 PM BULLA SHED 
! 
I 
I 
I ~ ­

Friday, April 18, 1975 
the observer 
11 

Sailing season underway 
After five regattas, the Notre Dame Sailing Team is nearing the mid-point of this semester's schedule. 
The first regatta of the semester was the Notre Dame Icebreaker Regatta held on St. Joseph's Lake March 15 and 16. After eighteen closely contested races, the University of Wisconsin at Madison was first of the nine colleges attending. Western Michigan University finished second, with Ohio Wesleyan. in third. Notre Dame was fifth after sailing twenty people in the two days of competition. 
On Easter weekend, the team travelled to St. Petersburg, Florida for the annual St. Peter­sburg Sprin~ Intersectional Regatta. Buzz Reynolds, the 
club's Race Team Captain, highlighted the Notre Dame effort by winning his division. The final standine:s were Ohio Wesleyan, 
ND Soccer club wins opener 
This past weekend the Irish Soccer team opened its spring season with two solid victories over DePaul University on Saturday and Northwestern on Sunday. 
In Saturday's afternoon the Irish opened the scoring when junior Tommy Bernardin converted a long cross beating the goalie with a low shot to the far post. A mix up in defense on a wind blown corner kick allowed De Paul to tie the game at 1-l. The Irish then took charge and Terry Finnegan, the team's "MVP" and leading scorer in the regular season, dribbled by the defense and broke away to beat the goalied from short range. Finnegan instantly replayed the goal after Tom Mulvey stole the ball at midfield and led Finnegan perfectly through the slot. The Irish controlled the second half. 
Guy Higgins scored on a 

loing shot that the goalie 
misplayed in the wind to close the 
Irish scoring. With little time left, 
DePaul scored on a shot that 
deflected off the crossbar and an 
Irish defenseman to make the final 
score 5-2. 
On Sunday, the Irish controlled 
the midfield area but were not able 
to cross the Northwestern back 
line in the first half. In the second 
half the Irishmounted pressure 
and 'had several near opportunities 
but failed to move until Tom 
Pollihan picked a Pat Flood pass 
THE NEW YORK METROPOLITAN CLUB WILL AGAIN BE PROVIDING BAGGAGE SERVICE TO THE LONG ISLAND-N.Y.C. AREA AT THE END OF THIS SEMESTER. LOADING TIMES AND PLACES WILL BE ANNOUNCED SOON, (DEPENDING ON EXAMS) A $5.00 DEPOSIT WILL SECURE YOUR PLACE. SEND CASH OR CHECK PAYABLE TO 
N.Y. MET CLUB TO DOUG SCHUMACHER -310 FISHER, N.D. QUESTIONS-CALL DOUG-no. 3007 OR MIKE -no, 1986 
DRAKE MOTEL AAA 60971 u.s. 31 SOUTH BEND,IND.466'14 
(219) 291-3100 
FOUR MILES SOUTH OF DOWNTOW'N 
available April 18-27 
an lp recording of 
SCOTT JOPLIN RAGS 
performed by William Cerny chairman NO Music Dept. 
proceeds to The Music 
Scholarship Fund 
on sale at the Huddle 
in residence halls 
CAMPUS 
VIEW ONE AND TWO BEDROOM FURNISHED APARTMENTS 
ic iC  2 TENNIS COURTS TO COMPLETED THIS SUMMCOMMJ]_NITY BUILDING  BE ER  
iC  INDOOR SWIMMING POOL  


CLASSIFIED ADS 
first: -University of Florida, second; and University of South Florida, third. Notre Dame. finished sixth of the eight schools sailing. 
This past weekend, the club showed its depth by sending teams to three regattas. At Western Michigan University, Carole Froling paced the team by winning "B" division against stiff com­petition and shifty winds. The final results placed University of Wisconsin at Oshkosh in first, Western Michigan University in second, and Notre Dame in third. 
Notre Dame also attended the regatta hosted by Kenyon College of Ohio. This regatta was won by Ohio Wesleyan University, with Wooster College second, and Bowling Green State University third. Notre Dame was fourth, six points out of second and one point out of third. 
The third regatta attended by· Notre Dame this past weekend was hosted by Purdue. The Notre Dame effort was lead l>Y a fresh­man, John Goodill in "A" division and Bruce Oarek, the club's commodore in "B" division. 
WANTED 
Help wanted: students for light office work and telephone sales, salary and commission. Apply 224 
W. Jefferson, corner of Lafayette St., room 313. 
Help wanted: students for light delivery. Excellent pay. A.A.A. Advertising. Apply 224 W. Jefferson, corner of Lafayette St., room 313. 
2 America tix, floor or cushion. Bob, 3407. 
Backpacker wanted: experienced and'or knowledgeable only need apply (in person). Sierra Sports, 2216 Miami. 
Nien and Women: earn $150 per week or more selling Valeer Home Care Products in the South Bend area. Can continue part-time next fall. Training provided in the Hostess Party end Solicitation sales programs. Call afternoons, except Mondays, or call Saturday mor­nings. Thomas Distributing, 256­0547. 
Need ride to Detroit, May 2. Call 1132. 
FOR SALE 
Olds Cutlass ·67, small engine, good mileage, S-track tape: $500. New Remington 12-gauge pump magnum: $120. Call 284-4008 or 234­8679. 
2 AR-6 8" 2-way speakers. 115-best offer. Call 6801. 
Texas lnst. SR-11, 1 year old, $35. Call Bob, 8720. 
Bar refrigerator, excellent con­dition, wood grain exterior. Phone 255-8027. $60. 
'wilson T-200 tennis racket. 4%" grip. 1 yr. old. Barely used. 7827. 
Garrard SLX-3 turntable with Shure cartridge, $75. Steve, 8683. 
NOTICES 
All Florida residents interested in shipping your luggage home for summer: send in your slips or contact Barney, 3610, immediately! 
RICH HUNTER FOR UMOC! 
Polar Bear Club of N D sponsors midnight swim, night of April 18, St. Joe Lake beach. All invited, bring own heater and six. 
Will do typing, experienced themes, etc. Call 233-8512. 
ROBIN TROWER & JOHN MAYALL IN CONCERT AT WINGS STADIUM IN KALAMAZOO, TUESDAY, APRIL 22, AT 8:00 PM. TICKETS NOW AT STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE AND BOOGIE RECORDS. A BAMBOO PRODUCTION. 
Typing Done: 35 cents per page, carbon copy 5 cents per page extra. Call 272-5549 and ask tor Dan. 
BEAUX-ARTS BALL. APRIL 19, 9:30 PM "OPENING NIGHT" ARCH.ITECTURE GALLERY MUSIC: "FAT CHANCE" TICKETS: $2.50 PER PERSON ARCH. LIBRARY (APPROPRIATE ATTIRE) 
The Frontier Drive-In is now open. 
Located on State Rd. 23 between 
Kroger's and the Distillery. Good . food at reasonable prices. 
Handmade turquoise jewelry from Santa Fe just above wholesale prices . no middleman. Call 287-0076 after 7. 
Now renting: Campus View Apartments. Still some choice 1 and 2 bedroom apartments available. Call 272-1441 for information or stop over and see the model apartment at 54585 Irish Way. 
NY Met. Club baggage truck to L.l.· NYC: call 3007 or 1986 tor in­formation. 
RIDE-A-BIKE 'FOR THE RETARDED on Sunday, April 27th. 
Typing: experienced in Senior Essays, dissertations, etc. Reasonable, accurate. 232-5715. 
Men and women with two years of college left! Want to invest six weeks this. summer and assure yourself a second career as an Army officer upon graduation? Earn approximately $500 this summer and gain self-confidence! No obligation. For information ~ontact CPT Weimer at 283-6265 about Army ROTC Basic Camp. 
Need help with term papers, reports, etc? Write Michiana Reference Service for rates and details. P.O. Box 6247, South Bend, IN 46615. 
All Morrissey Laons must be paid by Monday, April 21. 11:15-12:15 dally. 
Always the best In gas sales and mechanical work now at Tom's · University Standard, corner of 1ronwood and State Rd. 23. 10 per­cent discount to N D & SMC students on all purchases except gas . 
Students, vote OREST DEY, 
U.M.O.C. The man for the lob., 
Come and support N D crew this Sat. at 11 a.m. as they race Mercyhurst College on St. Joe River at Mishawaka Marina Park, Good time for all who come. 
Orest Dey for U.M.O.C. To convince you of his competence, call 1418 or stop by 213 Cavanaugh. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: pair of Adidas sneakers (white with black stripes). Saturday at 4th floor Keenan party. George, 3365. 
Lost: McGregor baseball glove lost in D-line in the North Dining Hall. Call Pat at 6494 . reward offered. 
Found: brown rimmed glasses behind Nieuwland. Call Charlie, 1722. 
Found: one watch, Tuesday, April 
15. Call and identify.. 8847. 
Found: 2 baby pictures in the Huddle. Call 8~61. 
FOR RENT 
Summer Rental: furnished apart ment. Air conditioning, carpeting, dishwasher. 10 min. walk to ND. Call Chris, 277-0953. 
All private 3 rooms up for married graduate student. All utilities. Near .. Memorial Hospital. No rent in return for aiding parents to help lift Iightweight son and daughter to and from wheelchairs, etc. No nursing.232-9128. 
Summer or Winter students: 4 bedroom house fully furnished. Washer and drYer. Equipped with burglar alarm system. Free trash removal. Call Charles Moore, 232­7180 after 4:30pm. 
2 rooms private. $50. Kitchen, rides, 233-1329. 

6 bedroom house for rent near 'campus, furnished. 9 mo. lease. $325 mth. Call 233-2613. 
2 houses for fall. 3 and 4 bedrooms. Close to campus · 5 minutes. Call 234-7332. 
Furnished apt., 503 W. Jefferson duplex. 3 rooms, second floor. Gas ht!at furnished. 289-6307, 234-0596. 
House for rent for summer: 4 bedroom, excellent location. 287­7981. 
Summer storage, dry, clean, safe, reasonable rates, pick up and deliver at dorm. Call Mrs. Cooper, 272-3004. 
Thr.ee bedroom house close to NO, May 15 to Aug 15. Carpeted and paneled living room complete kitchen washer and dryer. all utiIities included, $150 per month. Call Mrs. Cooper, 272-3004. 
PERSONALS 
Joan F (Chelmsfor, Me.) I've had my eye on you for awhile and would like you to come to my b· day party Saturday nite, 303 Alumni 
Howard 
Happy Birthday to the nerts and euchre player. Mr. and Mrs. Lowenkrau 
R. Redford, Today is your birthday no. 23. How's about sharing a long secret with me? 1 like it.. l like it a lot! 
Fancy Nancy 
MJB, Frivolous Friday equals 10 Fan. tabulous weeks. 
Hugraciously, "the kid" 
Alumni'!!-second floor alley congratulates Uncle Ken on his grad school acceptances. Good luck, Kenny! 
Caroline: Happy 19th from Steve, Daffy, and Wally. 
Victory Keg Party for Orest Day for 
U.M.O.C. Details will be announced alter election. 
Terry, Happy Birthday! How old you want to be this time? Have a good day! 
Your friend, Big John 
To Don Opal and Ted Ursu: The greatest An Tostal Teamsters Union ever! Sorry tor forgetting your names in the booklet. You've done one helluva job!!! 
Bob Quakenbush 
Way to go, Bob. Don and Ted 
There once was a girl named Marianne, Who sure liked to show off her tan The tan came from the sun, But the "moon" was for fun, She gets tan where no one else can! ! 
There once was a SMC Chick named 
1Murph, By friends she was often call "surf," As she turns 21, We hope she has tun, And gets "surfed" on the day of her birth!! 
Students: Vote OREST DEY U.M.O.C. The man for the job. 
Vote tor Digger of Pangborn tor U.M.O.C. One look at his references and you'll know you picked a winner. 


campus view 

A N~W APARTMENT COM­iC, HAS.KETBALL COURT MUNITY DEVELOPED ;FOR 
iC ,SHAG CARPET' THE STUDENTS, OF NOTRE 
D-AME & SAINI': MARY'S. CAMPUS' Z BATHS IN Z BEDROOM APT 
VIEW IS SET IN A_ ~OODED ALL APPLIANCES COLOR 
SURROUNDING 'YET IS ONLY COORDINATED. SECURITY
3 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME.· 
I.OCATEil'JUST ~.BLOCK 
SOUND CONDITIONED_

NORTH.OF-STATJ 1\D. 23 OFF OF WILLIS"RD. · i' .PRIVACY . . NOW RENTING FOR FALL ~1=MESTER. . ( '75 -'76 SCHOOL YeAR ) 
FoR RENr/ll INFORMATION PHONE 272-~441 
1 
I 
I 

• j 


Rick ~lager-'!!~~.ill~n'?re fun now· 
• by Erme TorrJero his new environment. "It'll take time to feel comfortable," admits .
Hick Slager knows how Frank Allocco feels. Like Frank, Slager 
Slager. "It is totally different
separated his shoulder in the spring of "73. Rick was battling Allocco 
feeling to have time to read your
then for the back-up spot behind Tom Clements. He had registered a 
plays. I'm playing with a better
brilliant performance, that day, completing seven of 11 passes for 66 
offensive line now. An added plus 
yards and guiding the second team offense 45 yards for the first touch­
is that I don't have to go against
down that spring against the number-Qne offense. 
the number one defense.
Later in the day, the dejected Salger was to utter the words which 
Everything seems to mesh
would make him a prophet. "I want to help this team in any way I 
together much better out there
ean." Hick said. "I have got to make the traveling squad in the fall. 
now. Playing sure is a Jot more
Tht•n somt• day I 'II get my chance to play." 
fun that it ever was."
SlagPr did indeed make the traveling squad that fall. Now he is 
The new offensive format does
gPtting thP opportunity to show off his wares. Before Allocco was 
not seem to bother the junior
injun•d last Saturday, Frank and Rick were sharing the joys of run­
quarterback. "We are basically
ning lht• first string offense. Now the job. at least for the time being, is 
running the same type of plays,"
all Hiek·s. 
explains Slager. "The signals
"Bl'ing the numb<•r one quarterback at Notre Dame is something 
have changed. But the pivoting is 
1hat I\·p bt•Pn molding for three years," bubbles the sandy haired 
the same. If the season were to
Junior !rom ('olumbus . Ohio. "Allocco and I ha\>e been in competition 
open today, the fans could not
all lht· llmt• that I have been her!'. I don't feel as if I got the job just 
pick up any change in our of­
hl'eaust· ·Frank got hurt. We match up pretty evenly." 
fense.
SlagPr has y<'t to feel the pressurl' of holding down the most enviable 
But there is one difference that 
t·ollq~P football position in the nation. "It hasn't really hit me yet," 
Rick is pretty excited about.
laughs Hick. "There are no gamt•s to look forward to now, so really 
Coach Devine has said that he is 
1ht• pressurt• is the same in any other spring.·' 
going to let the quarterback call
Yl'l. tht• affabiP Slager does feel some added responsibility in his 
his own plays. In the Parseghian 
lll'W roh· as offensive general. "Being the alternate quarterback, you 
regime Ara controlled the offense 
.Just don't gPt the respect that you do when you're a starter," Rick 
from the sidelines. But Slager
nmtPnds. "I feel that I owe it to myself as well as my teammates to do 
warns, "It just might end up
a good job out there. I have to assert my leadership on the field." 

.. -.. -where Coach Devine is going to have to call the plays himself. It all depends on how things go." 

Rick has aspirations of en­tering the medical profession upon the completion of his RICK SLAGER FINDS himself alone at the.helm for the Irish now. (Photo by Greg Young)
schooling. "I hope to go to medical or dental school," he SlagPr is not afraid that a young upstart quarterback will snatch says. "Pre-med is really tough away his dream just as it is unfolding. "If there is someone better and this year has been the har­than mP. than they should start." Rick admits. "There are five people dest of them all. I hope to take capable of starting here at Notre Dam<>. But the coaches only pick some summer courses at Ohio nnP. ThP rl'st are frustrated. I truly hope that Allocco comes back in State this summer. That will lhP fall. I want to start hen• b!.'cause I am number one." make things easier." Though hP will b!.' a senior next year. Slager, like Allocco. has an For the past two and one half t•xtra ~·par of Pligibility l!.'ft if h!.' wishes to make use of it. Of that 
years. Rick has been a mainstay dPcision Bick assert!.'dly says, "If I start next year. I will almost on the tennis team and often he t'Prta inly lw back for another campaign." has held the number one seeding. Bich now. Hick Slag!.'r is the man to beat. But when the season opens
But he has given up the game to in SPplt•mht>r. one thing is assured. Hick will begin the picture concentrate on football. "I som<'plac(•. started to play tennis this term," Slager l'Xplains. "But there was 
Irish tennis team defeats
just now way that I could handle 
Rick is the first to agree that a 

it." Northwestern, Kalamazoo
man of his size, 5-11, 185 pounds, can indeed be a standout in a by John Vincent

game of giants.; "I'm more of a 

Ron Inchauste. Notre Dame's 
roll out quarterback," he says. 

number four man, moved hisIt might have taken a long time, 
"Besides when you are trying to 

record to9-3 as he defeated Rickbut it was worth it. That's the
pass, you don't look over the line. Moore of Kalamazoo 6-3, 6-3 and
feeling the Notre Dame tennis
There are very few quarterbacks 

Northwestern's Steve Kahn 7-6, 7­
team had yesterday as they
that can do that. Rather you try

E R DOES NOT feel game pressure now, but is confident he can 6. Inchauste is now tied with Kane
defeated a stubborn Northwestern
to find holes to look through."

handle it. (Photo by Greg Young) for the third best winning per­
squad 7-2 in a four-hour plus match centage on the squad.
at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
The man with the second best is The victory placed the Irish's
Average White Team, 31 Club Ill 

his brother Juan who, with his 6-3,season mark at 10-2. The Irish 7-6 victory over Ken Weisbacker of eased by Kalamazoo on Tuesday Northerwestern, raised his recordby a score of 6-3.
reach Bookstore Basketball finals 

to 7-1 while playing in the sixthIn number one singles action position. The brothers began the
Notre Dame's captain John 
The Average White Team and 31 Billy Drew, and worked well off the O'Brien sunk a bank shot and a foul Carrico made it look easy as he season as the number three Club 111 advanced into the finals of defensive boards to limit A4H's shot, and Bill Drew sunk another defeated Dave Emig of Kalamazoo doubles team, but after a rocky the bookstore basketball tour­second chances. free throw, and the Asses were 6-4, 6-2 and Northwestern's Bob start, they gave way to Irish fresh­nament yesterday afternoon. AWT The score s~-sawed during the within 1. But 31 Club regrouped , Kaspers 6-1, 6-2. With the two men Brian Hainline and Tony downed Hack Incorporated 21-13, first half, with A4H gaining the hit a couple jumpers, and applied a victories he improved his record, Bruno. The latter tandem has a 4-3 
and 31 Club 111 followed with a 21-early lead on jumpers by Mike tight defense to pull to a 20-17 which had been hovering around record after their loss to NU's Jim Bosse and Jim Love.
16 victory over Ass and the Four Stevens, and 31 Club taking it away margin. Norb Schickel won it with the .500 mark for the past couple of The Irish take to the road this
Holes. I on three straight baskets by John a free throw. weeks to 7-5. 

Led by the hot shooting of Kevin Dubenetzky. A4H regained a 9-8 31 Club Ill Harrison-6, Randy Stehlik, a sophomore weekend as they face Eastern and Doherty and good inside moves by lead, but 31 Club scored the next Dubenetzky-6, Clements-5, from Peru, Indiana kept Central Michigan on Sunday and Mike Banks, the Average White three to capture an 11-9 halftime Schickel-3, Bonifer-1; Ass and the steam rolling along as he clobbered Monday. They enter their toughest 
Team ripped off a quick 6-1 lead, margin. Four Holes Niehaus-5, Stevens-4, days of action next week when they 
Kalamazoo's Alex Dalrymple 6-2,
Drew-4, O'Brien-;3. batt! Michigan, Iowa, Michigan
and Hack Incorporated was never Clements and Dubenetzky 6-3 and Bob Rosebraugh of Nor­State, and Wisconsin. All of thein the game after that. AWT led combined to start 31 Club off in the The finals will be held today, thwestern 6-4, 7-6 to place his matches are at home on the11-2 at halftime, and cruised to the second half,and they ~oved to a 17-with the consolation game starting season slate at 12-Q. He has now Courtney Tennis Courts. Ad­final 8 point margin. 13 margin. Then A4H's Matt at 5:30 and the main event at 6:15 won 21 matches in a row. At Peru mission if free.
Solid rebounding by Bill Paterno 
High School the architecture and Pat Pohlen allowed AWT to major swept 68 matches in sue-· completely dominate the boards, cesssion as he led his team to five Womens ·Golf
and their tough defense kept The conference caampionships and the Hacks on theperimeter throughout Indiana State Cahmpionship in the game. No one on the Hacks 1970-71. 
Club competing 
could get the hot hand from the Stehlik hasn't lost in doubles 
outside. Tom Ritter led them with either as he has teamed with junior The Women's Golf Club held the six points, mostly on tip-ins or Mike O'Donnell to sweep 11 Notre Dame Women's Open last follow-ups. Kevin Doherty led straight matches. In a match that Thursday, April 10. The medalist AWT with six, mostly on long­was settled on a Stehlik tie-breaker was Liz Adamson, who came in range outside jumpers. they slipped by Northwestern's with a score of 93. Barb Breesmen 
Average White Team Doherty-6 "Bob Kaspers and Howard Winitsky was second with a 94. Banks-5, Paterno-4, Horton-4, 7-5, 7-6. Teams from Michigan St., Pohlen-2. Hack Incorporated Notre Dame Senior Chris Kane Central Michigan, St. Mary'sRitter-6, Kuzmicz-3, Start-2, · upped his season mark to 9-3 with College and Notre Dame competed Manyak-2. his victory over Jim Bosse of in the Notre Dame Women's In­
• In the late game, Ass and the Northwestern. He dropped a close vitational last Saturday on the Four Holes battled 31 Club close all decision to Kalamazoo's Chris Burke Memorial Course. the way until the end, but could not Bussert 3-6, 7-6, 6-3 on Tuesday. Michigan St. took the team trophy overcome their balanced at­Kane, who is rebounding from arm with a 5-women total of 491 · tack,and 'aggressive defense. 31 troubles that have hampered him Central Michigan placed secon;l, Club scored from all over the the past couple of seasons, is off to Notre Dame third and St. Mary's court, on inside follow-ups his be!;t start ever. He began the last. Representing ND were Barb by Randy Harrison and John season in the fifth singles slot, but Breesman, Ellen Hughes, Barb Dubenetsky, and outsidebombs by took over the third singles positon Frey, Joan Porter and Ann Eisele. Clements. Mike Bonifer, though he from freshman Brian Hainline at The women's golf club travels to had a horrendous shooting day, !OM CLEMENTS drives in for a breakaway layup in Club 31's victory the Indiana match and has been Illinois St. University next played tenacious defense on A4H's •n the Bookstore tournament yesterday. (Photo by Chris Smith) there ever since. weekend for an invitational there, 
• 




