

OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS VOTING IN THE HUDDLE YESTERDAY. Due to a rule violation, 

un1versdy of notre dame 
Vol. X, No. 16 
Run-off necessary 
for SLC election 
by Lonnie Luna Staff Reporter 
In the on-campus Student Life Council <SLC) election, no can­didate received a majority, thereby forcing a run-off on Thursday. 
John Salveson and Mike Richter will face each other in the South Quad vote while Jim Spurling and Ed Van Tassel are finalists in the north quad. 
The off-campus SLC elections were invalidated yesterday due to imprt;~per voting procedures at Campus View. Candidates John Lynch and Phil Mancini agreed to hold the election again on Thurs­
day. 
"We had a ballot box at Campus View and the volunteer working the box left the balloting area to push for OC votes, leaving the box unguarded," explained SLC Election Chairman Pete Gott­sacker. There were 120 valid votes but because of the number of in­valid votes present, the OC election was invalidated, Gottsacker ad­ded. 
On Thursday, the OC ballot boxes will be in the library and Huddle, continued Gottsacker. In order that more OC students may vote, the voting times have been lengthened from 6:00p.m. to 10:45 p.m., he added. 
"This misfortune was due to the fact that there were not enough volunteers to help work the balloting areas," concluded Gottsacker. 
Student Body President Ed

st mary's college 
Byrne said he was very disap­

Wednesday, September 24, 1975 
pointed intheOC turnout. "What the OC students don't understand is that the SLC can greatly jlffect their life style for better or worse," commented Byrne. To prevent further election problems, the OC election is being held on campus, he added. 
"The campaigning coverage on the North and South Quads was good but the turnouts at the forums were quite disappointing," Byrne commented. 
Action on the North Quad saw Spurling accumulating 508 votes for 49 per cent, compared to Van Tassel's 280 votes for 27 per cent. Spurling missed winning the electon outright by eleven votes. Spurling easily carried Zahm as well as winning in Grace, Farley, and Breen-Phillips. Van Tassel displayed strength in Keenan where he accumulated 90 votes. 
The overall voting in the North Quad was good with 1036 votes tallied. 
On the South Quad, Salveson's claimed seven halls with 38 per cent of the vote, compared to Richter's 33 per cent. Salveson carried Alumni by a landslide of 114 to 20. He also won in Cavanaugh, Dillon, Fisher, Morrissey, and Pangborn. Richter's best showing was in Sorin with 71 votes, but he also carried St. Ed's, Lyons, Lewis, Howard and Holy Cross. Walsh was divided between the two candidates with 38 votes tabulated for each.· · 
A total of 1325 votes were tallied in the South Quad, bringing the campus voting total to 2361 tallied votes. 
(continued on page 7) 


Mardi Gras Chairman, Harry Spellman, outlined his committee's plans at the Hall President Council meeting last night. 
(Photo by Chris Smith) 
Patty Hearst to undergo psychiatric examination 
SAN FRANCISCO the circumstances of Miss Her expression blank, Miss Hearst's captivity were a 
learst shook her head from vicious and deliberate effort to side to side today when Judge reduce her to a resident of the Carter asked her, "Miss "fantasy world" in which her Hearst, do you have any com-attorneys maintain she still ment to make?" dwells. 
As she remained silent, the In the statement, Miss Hearst judge added: "I'm not trying to said she was constantly threat­tantalize you ... you are not re-ened with death, held for more qui red to speak." than a month in a closet and 
After she shook her head forced at gunpoint to partici­more, one of Miss pate in an April 1974, robbery attorneys, Terence of a Hibernia Bank branch in 
Hallinan, rose and asked the San Francisco. on behalf of Miss "Under these pressures, her Hearst's mother Catherine if mind became more and more 
could be examined by a distorted ... She was unable to psychiatrist specializing in distinguish between what was brainwashing. real and what was imaginary. 
"Someone who has ex-She finally came to the realiza­perience evaluating Vietnam tion that she was becoming in­prisoners of war," Hallinan sane and fought to ward off this 
condition," the affidavit said. might be very helpful The affidavit continued: these circumstances," "During all this time, she the judge. was in a constant case of fear 
outlined in the affidavit, (continued on page 7) 

HPC elects SLC representative 
by Martha Fanning examined. Welsh said he had 
Staff Reporter made inquiries into the matter and 
The Hall Presidents Council a possible policy existed. 
elected their representative to the The firm he consulted was 
Student Life Council in a meeting looking into such a policy but had 
last night in Lewis Hall. not contacted him before the 
After ,some preliminary meeting. A suggestion was made 
discussion, Howard Hall President for a committee to be formed to 
Mike Welsh, was chosen as SLC look into such policies for 
representative. Prior to the residence halls. 
voting, the possibility of post-Several speakers appeared at 
poning the election to the next the meeting. Harry Spellman, 
meeting was introduced. Another Mardi Gras Chairman, informed 
alternative suggested Elton the council that the booth chair­
Johnson, HPC 'Chairperson , in-man for each hall should be 
terview candidates and submit one selected by the end of next week. 
name for approval. The theme for this year's Mardi 
Johnson stated he would rather Gras is the Bi-Centennial," 
the council decide who the Spellman announced. "We would 
representative would be. This like all designs in by the third week 
Sunday's SLC Budget Hearings in October." 
were a key factor in the decision to "Pamphlets and hand-Quts on 
select the representative last how to plan the booths will be 
night. issued," stated Spellman. 
Welsh was one of three council Concerning the raffle, the 
members that submitted their chairman explained each hall 
names to Johnson during the past would be assigned a quota of books 
two weeks. The voting took place to be sold based on the number o 
by secret ballot and each council students in the dorm. "If the hall 
member wrote their name on the sells their quota, they will receive 
ballot to insure a valid election. five dollars per book. Two dollars 
A proposal by Bob Quakenbush, per book will be given if the quota Executive Coordinator, to rotate is not met." meetings to different halls each No central busing program to week was accepted. bring women to campus will be 
Quakenbush cited that this would initiated by the Mardi Gras enable the HPC to "become a more Committee. Spellman noted that if visible body." We could open halls want to bus women in, they meetings to hall residents so that could do so on their own. they. could see how the council Mardi Gras is scheduled 'to be works." held in Stepan Center January 30th 
Johnson discussed hall alcohol thru February 8th. guidelines and the role of the hall Dan Sheahen, Homecoming presidents council. "The only Chairman, emphasized the need thing we can do," he said, "is to let for hall involvement in the halls make up their ,own Homecomil!_gWeekend, Oct. 24-25. guidelines. These guidelines could A contest is planned. on the best be submitted to Roemer, or the decorated hall. "The theme is SLC. They may be passed by the 'World of Fantasy' or the hall can SLC and vetoed or possible tabled decorate for the game itself," by the council but it's the only Sheahen explained. thing the HPC can do," he ex-First prize will be one hundred plained. fifty dollars, second prize is 
The guidelines would provide seventy five dollars. The halls will written explanations of what in-be judged by members of the dividual halls would do if the Homecoming committee. alcohol policy could be handled by "We would like something more dorms. than just sheet banners," Sheahen 
Insurance to cover the hall's commented. "We're trying to get liability for dorm parties was also the halls interested in homecoming," he added. 
John Lonsberg, Judicial Coor­dinator, and Mary Ellen Keenan, Assistant ,Judicial Coordinator, cited problems with the current Hall Judicial Board system and possible solutions. 
The basis of judicial board election was one problem 
mentioned. "Students on some hall judicial boards are inex­perienced so there is a reluctance on the part of the rector to bring cases to the board," Lonsberg stated. 
An interview process was on solution offered. The students interviewed would be selected and 1meetwith the hall president, hall staff members and two judicial board members. A standard term, such as the length of a residents stay in the hall, was also recom­mended. 
Another problem cited was the role of the board. "Punishment and disciplinary action is the primary duty of the board. It should try to become more of a consultative body meeting regularly." Lonsberg said. 
Such a change would allow students to bring minor grievances to the board before a serious situation and allow board mem­bers to become familar with each other. 
"There is a need for campus wide revision of the hall• judicial boards," Lonsberg observed. "The board must prove to everyone that it is competant." 
One of the aims of the coor­dinator is to try and build con­fidence in the hall judicial boards. 
"Ifa rector has confidence in the board then h~ won't as quickly make a decision by himself," commented Keenan. 
Lonsberg concluded with a request that each . hall submit a general summary of their board, its role and the selection process for membtrs. 
Charles Moran spoke on the Social Commission. Mter an­nouncing the Quickie will run this weekend, he requested that if halls 
(continued on page 7) 


r 
Wednesday, September 24, 1975
2 
the observer 
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON (AP) -U.S. Intelligence agencies ignored a presidential order revoking a plan authorizing Illegal domestic spying, Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman rank Church said on Tuesday. 
"The decision of the President seemed to matter very little," said Church, D-ldaho. He noted that the CIA had Illegally oepned mall before the so-called Huston plan was approved t!"<!n by President Richard Nixon. The Huston plan authorized wha~ C .vo'-h said were illegal wiretaps, mall openings and burglaries. 
FORT WALTON BEACH, Fla. (AP) -Hu~-•.-·"ne Eloise, spawning tornadoes to accompany Its torrential rains and roaring winds, plowed a wide path of destruction Inland Tuesday after smacking the Florida panhandle's coast with Its best punch. 
The hurricane's 130-mile-an-hour winds carried slashing rains and frenzied surf as it struck a 40-mlie stretch between Fort Walton Beach and Panama City before dawn. Eloise then weakened as Its center moved into southeastern Alabama. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Justice Dpeartment has launched a criminal investigation into the destruction of a threatening letter that Lee Harvey Oswald delivered to the Dallas FBI office shortly before the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. 
A knowledgeable department source said Tuesday the matter has been turned over to the department's criminal division. The FBI, under orders from Director Clarence M. Kelley, is conducting its own probe of the case. 
an c:ampus taday 
12:15 p.m. 
3:25p.m. 
3:30 p.m. 
-· seminar, "participation of lipid carriers in glycoprotein synthesis,'' by dr. roger k. bretthauer room 278 glavin life sci. aud. 
---lecture "design techniques and the mechanics of mass transfer for packed beds when used In distillation, absorption, and stripping operations" by john s. eskert, consultant and general engineer, chemical process prod. dlv., norton co. room 269 chem. 
engineering bldg.  
--­computer course plications to data computing ctr.  "list base  processing in pl-1 management"  r with oom  ap­115  

6:30p.m. ---meeting, sailing club, room 212 engineering bldg. 
8:00 p.m. . _ . d . 
10:00 p.m. --mov1e, stagecoach, engmeer1ng au ., t1ckets $1. 
8:00p.m."---dance performance by emily frankel, part of "1975 internatonal women's year" performing arts minl­sertes, o'laughlin aud. 
8:15 p.m. ---concert, helen kay aberle, soprano and vincent skowronski, violin library auditorium. 


Assassin planned to 
''Test the 
San Francisco <AP) Police here warned the Secret Service last Saturday that the woman who fired a shot at President Ford was a potential assassin who threatened to "test the system" at a presidential appearance the day before the shooting. 
Chief of Inspectors Charles Barca quoted Secret Service officials as saying that Sara Jane Moore 
1: could be: released from jail on a I minor weapons charge Sunday 
because the federal authorities would handlE: her.
~ !I 
"This gal could be another Squeaky Fromme," Police In­spector Jack O'Shea said he told the Secret Service ~n Saturday, after a call from the 45-year-old Mrs. Moore. "She said she might go down to Stanford and test the system," O'Shea said. "She never clarified or explained it." 
Miss Fromme, a follower of imprisoned mass_-murderer Charles Manson, is charged with poin_ting a loaded postol at Ford on Sept. 5 in Sacramento, 90 miles east of San Francisco. 
The Secret Service had no im­mediate comment on the report. 
Mrs. Moore, 45, was scheduled to appear in federal court lTE Tuesday for a hearing on a 
prosecution request for a psychiatric exa111ination of her. 
The graying mother is being held on $500,000 bail on federal charges of tryin~ to· assassinate the President after she fired a .38 caliber pistol at Ford Monday as he emerged from a downtown San Francisco hotel. An ex-Marine d'flected her gun, and the President was unhurt. 
ae report of the failure of the ~ret Service to follow Mrs. Moore more closely sparked a controversy ·in Washington. Treasury SeCretary William Simon and various U.S. senators and congressmen called for a new look 

system'' 
at presidential protection. 
Congressional leaders also immediately suggested that all 1976 presidential candidates be given protection, instead of waiting until Jan. 1, 1976. 
When Ford spoke at Stanford University on Sunday, the Santa Clara County Sheriff's department was told to look for Mrs. Moore. 
But she had been arrested by San Francisco police on a misdemeanor charge of carrying a gun. A .44-caliber weapon was seized. 
Mrs. Moore was then released about 4 p'm. Sunday, about the time Ford was speaking in Stan­lord, 35 miles south. 
"Police Lt. Raymond Wjite called the Secret Service and mentioned did they want her held... They said it won't be necessary, we'll go talk to her," Barca said. 
The Observer tS publtshed Mondaythrough F rtday and weekly durtng the summer sess,on. except dur.ng 
exams and vacation periods The Observer IS publiShed by the students of the Untv of Notre 
Dame and St Mary's College Subscrtpt,ons may be purchased tor 10 dollars per semester 118 dollars per yearl from The Ob 
server. Box Q. Notre Dame. In dtana. 46556 Second Class postage pa,d. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
At St. Mary's 




Career workshops slated 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 
The first in a series of five career 
planning workshops for seniors 
and juniors begins tomorrow night 
in room 147 Madeleva, St. Marv's 
at 7:30p.m., announcied th-Career 
Development Center's Dir-ector 
Karen O'Neil 
"Self-assessment; skill iden­

tification" is the topic of this . Thursday's workshop. The remaining four workshops are as scheduled: ''Careerexploration; opportunities for women," Oc­tober2; "Formulating your per­sonal life-work career decision­making plan," Oct. 9; "Writing your resume," Oct. 16; "In­
terviewing skills," Oct. 23. 
'0'Neil stressed l that these 
Thursaay workshops are open to 
all juniors and seniors, to help 
them "make the best decision 
possible after graduation, whether 
it is to go to graduate school, law 
school, to travel, work, marry, or 
live away from home." 
Further, each of these e 
workshops, she said, builds upon 
one another.Thus, she encouraged 
students to attend all of the 
sessions. 
Last year, these workshops were 
presented on a small scale. But, 
this year, O'Neill believes that 
many seniors do not know what 
they want to do after graduation, 
and has set up these workshops in 
an effort to orient them towards 
the future 
"Students need to be much 
better prepared for interviews, 
and these workshops will take 
them through the steps to prepare 
for them. They !students) also 
need to know more about them­
selves, _a!l~ what their real skills
and abilities ~re," she stressed 

Individual themes and goalshave r--.-~---:-----------,
been set for each of the five Apphcahons be1ng taken Sept. 24 -26 workshop sessions. f • · f 
1n sesswnone, one main theme ffor a College of Sc1ence representative persists, said O'Neil, and that is h A d · C "1 f 
"that yes, liberal <trts majors have • to t e Ca emiC OUnCI • • something to offer oo employer, ' S · S · ' 
but often, they <recenfgrads) don't f Any intrested Clence or Clence -intent • 
know what they possess." should submit his name and brief ' 
The goal of tbis 'first session, she f f continued, is to provide a means of • statement of purpose to the f self-assessment, and to give some4 ' • C '1 · · C · 
self-confidence and moral support. f Sc1ence ounc1 N om1nat1ng ommittee, f 
Next Thursday's workshop is expected to "broaden students' 
Lecture series to commence 
Dr. John Julian Ryan, professor of English at St. Anselm's College, Manchester, N.H., and a former University of Notre Dame faculty member, will open the 'Design of Humanistic Work' lecture series with a talk at 3:30 p.m. Thursday !Sept. 25) l in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Ryan's talk, 'The Design of Humanistic Work: Philosophical­Cultural Considerations,' is sponsored by Notre Dame's College of Business Administration with financial assistance from the Sperry and Hutchinson Company. It is open to the public without charge.
R h h H d 
yan as taug t at arvar , Holy Cross and Catholic Univer­sity, and has authored a number of books, including 'The Idea of a 
Catholic College,' 'BeyondHumanism,' and 'The Humanization of Man.' He is also the author of numerous articles in
h 
SUC publications as Crosscurrents, Commonweal and 

-~~:;;;;;=;::::::::::::~~o~th:e~r~s·-------------------. Almost Everything You've Always Wanted To Know 
A GAY GUIDE TO NOTRE DAME-SOUTH BEND 
PREPARED BY the Gay Students of Notre Dame Available at Pandora's or wnte 
GSND, P.O. Box 206, Notre Dame $1.00 mall orders confidential 
awareness of careers available by eliminating sex-stereotyping of jobs for women," and then to narrow the range of prospective j':'h t-.,r.p_<; to those which match the i Interests and abilities of the graduate. 
At session three on Oct. 9, seniors will t>e asked to set in­dividuallloals as well as deadlines for obtaining these goals, while the fourth session will be a work session, involving the formulation of job proposals, resumes, and job objectives. 
The fifth and final workshop of the series, according to O'Neil, will be "an intensive session" in which students will learn interviewing techniques through role-playing. 
Other CareerDevelopment Plans 
The -Career Development director noted that these workshops are only a part of the Center's plans for the year. 
Supplemental to the workshop's is a manual for career planning, which will be distributed at the second session. 
Recruitment and interviews begin at the opening of October. For those students attending in.t.erviews during the first three 
weeks in of that month, sessions on interviewing techniques, similar to tnat beinll offered at the last ' workshop will be held on Friday, Octooer 3, 10,and 17. 
O'Neil also plans to conduct talk sessions with groups of seniors and juniors regarding careers. graduate school, and other post­graduate activities, twice weekly in the dining halhnd in her office. 
STOP FUMBLING THOSE1
BOOKS 'GROCERIES. IOOCENTER 

Mishawaka, IN 465'll,. Phone :2Jq/.1S''l-S213 


:•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.: 
e ,fS~\C'iPn fl{f1t
.-9~~~~~,..c· _,; 
li Geft&fa1 Store 

-'Materbeds ­




St. Mary's Student Affairs rejects proposal 
by Mary Janca  denied  after  discussion,  for  a  someone  aro und  to  see  what's  
St. Mary's Editor  number of reasons.  going on; oth erwis e,  it facilitates  
A proposal  which  would  have  However, Durlacher noted in her proposal, which the SMC Student  rather than hthe proposal continues.  inder s t he criminal,"  

allowed SMC students to park their Assembly unanimously approved Cannon, howyver, countf!red,
cars in the lot between LeMans and two weeks ago, that the primary listing as one cause for the denialRegina Halls, rather than in the reason for the change is that of of the proposal that lights havenewly-constructed lot across from safety. been installed in the parking lot.
McCandless on the outskirts of the "The McCandless lot, which More lights have been added to the campus, was rejected yesterda_y forms the boundary for the north north side of McCandless.
by the St. Mary's Student Affatrs side of the campus, is far more She also said that St. Mary'sstaff. 
secluded and removed than the security patrols the north parking 
Students now park in the newly­more centrally-located LeMans lot lot "at least every 15 minutes at constructed lot across from and provides an inviting area for night," and will drive students McCandless on the outskirts of criminal acts," the proposal back to their residence hall. campus. states. She further urged any St. Mary's 
In a letter addressed to student "It is far more unlikely that a student coming back to campus government Vice-President for crime will occur where there are early in the morning or late at Academic Affairs Joanie other people visibly present or night to stop in the Security office. Durlacher, author of the proposal, within hearing distance." it notes. This action will enable the Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, vice "The lighting that is provided as, dispatcher to notify a security president for student affairs, a safety measure can only be patrol to meet her in the parking stated that the proposal was being considered as such when there is lot, if the car is not ;>]ready there. 
McDer:mott na:med to regents 
Mary Alice Cannon, vice-president these postions," explained Cannon. 
by Kathy Hyrne 
for student affairs. "Joanie will be McDermottviews her role on theStarr Reporter serving a one-year term, I'm Board as one of "representing 
Joan McDermott har been ap­sure she'll do a really good job," ·students and explaining how pointed by the St. Me ,,Y's College Cannon added. "As Student Body students feel on any certain issue." Board of Regents tj be student President. ... she has had the king of She went on, "I think it's really representative for a one year term exposure to college interests that important to have a student on the on the Board. The Board is the the Board looks for." Board for student communication, highest governing body in the St. Mary's has had a student as well as representation." school. member on the Board of Regents The Board's first meeting will be 
since 1971. Three have been this Friday and Saturday begin­
Sr. Catherin Francis Ford, 
student body presidents and two ning with a Student Government chairman of the Board off Regents have been senior class presidents. luncheon at noon. The actual notified McDermott of her ap­meeting will convene at 3 p.m.
pointment on Sept. 13. 
"However there is no set criteria Friday and adjourn at noon "I'm really excited, this was that the Board must choose from Saturday.
something special to me. It's the type of thing I've always wanted, but I never knew if I'd be ap­
Would-be Ford assassin ponted," said McDermott who is also student body president. 
had a normal childhood
The process in selecting the student member of the Board is no CHARLESTON, W.Va. <AP) She was raised with three different than choosing any other 
-The woman accused of brothers and a sister in an en­member, except that she is shooting at President Ford is vironment that was neither 
nominated by the student govern­remembered by old friends as wealthy nor sophisticated. ment. This year there were seven a shy, high-strung girl who was Friends say she was a com­nominees. a loner during her early years plex person, given to long peri­An executive sub-committee in West Virginia. 
ods of silence and introspection.
reviews the curriculum detail and Now a middle-aged divorcee "She was kind of strange," resumes of each nominee, which 
with a 9-year-{)ld son, Sara said Bob Turkelson, a childhood include letters of recommendation Jane Moore was arrested in friend whose family has contin­
from administration omctats. San Francisco on Monday, sec­ued close ties with others in the 
The sub-committee then makes onds after a shot was fired in Kahn family.
its recommendation to the entire the direction of the President. "She was a high-strung per­Board and an electiOn is held. 
son, kind of fidgety, who used
She was born Sara Jane
Joan's father is also a member of perfect English and sort of
Kahn on Feb. 15, 1930, in a two­
the Board of Regents. Both will looked down her nose at some
story, log house in a wooded
have equal voting and discussion of the rest of us. Everythinghollow near Charleston.
powers. 
had to be her way. She dressed Last year Mr. McDermott was Officials at Charleston's just so-so and was prissy.
chairman of the Student Life Stonewall Jackson High School 
''She was different from ev­
Committee to the Board of ttegents said police have taken poses­erybody else. She just stood of which Joan was a member. As sion of Sara Jane Kahn's school apart from everybody."
Student Body President she records and a yearbook with 
Betty Jean Rardon, who said remains on that committee as well her senior picture in it. A grad­she was a classmate at Grand­as on the Committee on Education. uafe of the same class was vie,•· Elementary School, re­As a member of the Board of named Sara Jane Moore, and 
mtuJbers Sara Jane Kahn as 
Regents Joan joins the Committee she still lives in Charleston. 
"a clean. neat little girl" who on Alumni Affairs. All are sub­Sara Jane Kahn grew up in sat :. as the bus took stu­committees of the main Board. 
far different circumstances der'r.: across the wooded ridges"St. Mary's is one of the few from the blue-blood heritage at the edge of town. 
colleges in the nation which allows 
she claimed in recent inter­"She v·:-~" quiet and pretty 
a student to be a £full member of 
views with West Coast news­much a loner," Mrs. Rardon 
the Board of Regents," noted Dr. papers. 
said. 

On the issue of SMC's security residency and employment, escorts, Durlacher's proposal respectively, utilize the parking states, "This (the escorts) is facilities to a greater extent than 
hardly feasible when there is such visitors and co-ex students. a disproportion between the "Under our present parking number of security men available situation, the LeMans lot is vir­and the number of students tually vacated by 5 p.m., while the returning at late hours." student parking lot is well­
In researching her proposal, the populated. Therefore, the most student government vice president convenient parking area is not discovered that there are 290 being utilized to its fullest capacity parking spaces available in each of and hindering the promotion of the the LeMans and McCandless greatest good for the greatest lots,and that there were 174 number of people," states the students registered to park in the proposal. lot two weeks ago. According to Additionally, Durlacher noted Cannon's letter, the number of that students, faculty, and staff registered students has risen to must pay a $25 parking permit, to 190, and is expected to reach 280 by park their cars on campus, and December. therefore, should have priority 
"A provision for faculty and over non-paying visitors and co-ex staff parking has been provided for students who use the parking
in two rows of the LeMans lot, facilities during the day.totaling 51 spaces," the proposal "If this is not the case, what is to points out. 
prevent a student from declaring

The remainder of the LeMans lot herself a full-time visitor and from has been reserved for visitors of parking in the LeMans lot? This the College and co-ex students. would save them $25.00 and would 
Thus, Durlacher concludes in provide them with a space in the her proposal, the students, faculty more convenient LeMans lot," and staff, by virtue of their concludes the proposal. 
r------------------------------------------------~
I MAC'S RECORD RPCK $1 Off Any Pink Floyd Album Wishing You Were Here) $4.49 
A full service record 
288. 1178 
Next to River Park Theater MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND 
RIN IN THE L TV AT JORDAN FORD 


I 
~ 


w NO 
SMC 

THEATRE 
1975-1976 Our 10th Joint SeMon 

Indicate 1st Fri., !Sf Sat., Thurs., 2d Sat. 2d Fri. date choice and mall check for amount due with stamped· addressed envelope for return of tickets to: ND­SMC Theater, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
SWE S fAKES PRIZES 
1. 2 tickets to NO Georgia Tech 
game  
2. Dinner restaur'.rrl limii)  of  for your  two  ch at oice  the ($25  

3. $10 gift certificate at local store of your choice. 
BUY YOUR SEASON TICKET TODAY!!! 
Tebelak and Schwartz's 

GODSPELL 
April 23, 24,29,30, May 1 at 8 PM Stepan Center 

------------~---~~ 
Wednesday, September 24, 1975 
the observer 
Must park behind McCandless 





The Observer 
oo independent student newspaper 
Founded November 3, 1966 

Terry Keeney  Editor-in-chief  
Tom Modglin  Business Manager  
Tom Whelan  Advertisin!l Manager  

EDrrORIAL BOARD AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; Ken Girouard, News Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil, Features Editor; Chris Smith, Photo Editor 
lr---------------E_d_i•o_r_i~_••_:U__l~---~------~N~~~·~··~2~8)~1~7~1S~------~8~us~in~~~n~·=28~1~7~~7~1---------------4 
Wednesday, September 24, 1975 

seriausly, falks 
After the NFL Strike 
art buchwald 
"You're not sore, are you?" don't know if the NFL football 
WASHINGTON--As I write this-I 
"Nobody likes to be tackled," the Redskin says. "After all, we're all strike will continue. My concern is in the same union."

not with the issues of such a strike but the ramifications once it is 
The referee urges the men to line up and start playing.

settled. Football, as everyone knows, is a hard-hitting game; and 
The Patriot defensive line faces when two Goliath teams face each 
the Redskin offensive line. A other on grass of Astroturf, they're 
Patriot tackle says, "On behalf of out to kill. That's what keeps all of 
the team I'd like to take this op­portunity to thank all of youus glued to our television sets and forces us to pay $8 to $18 to go to the 

Redskins for what you did for us stadium. 
when we walked out. It's this kind But now because of all the 
of support that shows how united sympathy strikes the attitude of we are against the unfair labor players may change. 
practices of management. And I This is what could happen if play 
speak for all the Patriots when 1­resumes in the NFL. 
say if there is anything· we can do Let us, for argument's sake, say 
to reciprocate just ask us." that the New England Patriots are 
The Redskin center says, "Will playing the Washington Redskins. you let Billy Kilmer complete a The Patriots kick off, and the 
pass to Charley Taylor? It would really help the morale of our teamrunning back of the Redskins at this time."

catches the ball on his five-yard line. He starts running up the field 
"Sure," the Patriot tackle when he is hit by four members of 
replies. "It's the least we can do for you."

the suicide squade. The back picks himself up and 
The ball is snapped, and Billy says bitterly, "That's no way to Kilmer fades back to throw. No 
one on the Patriot line moves.

treat a brother." "What are you talking about?" 
Charley Taylor runs straight down 

one of the tacklers says. the sideline, and Kilmer throws a "Look, man, when you guys wobbly pass high in the air. The 
were locked up, we voted to go out Patriot defensive backs all fall in sympathy. Is this the kind of down, and Taylor catches the ball gratitude you show by knocking and runs for a touchdown. Kilmer me down to the ground?" personally shakes the hand of "Gee, we're sorry. We forgot," every Patriot linesman who did not 
only way we can sock it to the owners is to stick together." 
When the Patriots get possession of the ball, they tell the Redskins they're going to send their running back through right guard on a keeper play. "We'd like to score early," the Patriot tight end tells the Redskin linebacker, "just to show the owners that in spite of the strike we haven't lost our zip." 
"it makes sense," the Redskin linbacker says. "But tell your running back not to cut too hard after he plows through the line as the grass there is very slippery." 
"Thanks a million. We'll be careful. Is it okay if I throw a block at you on this play?" 
"Sure," the Redskin linebacker says, "but be careful of my knee. IfI get injured they may put me on waivers and then you know what management will do to me under the Rozelle rule." 
"I'll be careful," the tight end assures him. 
Well, the final score is 237 to 234 On spite of no rush on the Patriot place kicker, he failed to get the ball through the goa: posts), and both teams march off the field arm in arm. 
"Brothers, we're sorry we beat you," Kilmer tells the Patriots in their locker room. 
"Heck," says the Patriots' Randy Vataha. "We're sorry we 
one of the suicide squad men says. rush him. "This proves that the didn't give you a better game." 


P.O. Box Q 
Not 

denying 
God 
Dear Editor: 

Enough of this distortion of the 
issue of coed housing by Pat 
Kearns! Or too much. · 
The choice to live in a coed dorm is not a denial of God. The idea of men and women living in relatively close proximity need not raise the immediate connection to the Skinner box or to the Harrad experiment. And the men and women of Notre Dame should not be viewed with· the disrespect that Pat apparently has for them as thinking individuals. 
in the words ot one or tne sources that Pat mocked, "Coed housing would not be attractive for everyone, however, ... \the op­portunity should be there for those students who are interested." This is all I would say as well. 
The University should recognize and respond to the varying needs of its students in areas where that is practicable given the pres&nt legal limitations and, more im­portantly, the moral framework under which the school operates. And I see no threat to the collective morality from coed housing. 
I, for one, would have welcomed the opportunity to live in a coed dorm in the time I spent here because I think that coeducational living would have been of value to me in confronting that "oh-so­interestin~ area of sexuality" as 
r 
t 
Pat calls it. 
I don't mean anything lecherous 
by the remark; I merely think that 
I would be better able to keep the 
question of sexuality in per­
spective if it were allowed to rise in 
a more normal <Yes, a more 
"real," Pat!) environment than 
that in which I have lived in my 
time here. 
Of course, this is one side of the 
question. I have heard personal 
opinions for not wanting to live in 
coed dorms which were just as 
good, and who am I to disagree 
with them? I don't want to con­
vince anyone of the compelling 
moral obligation to have coed 
housing, and I don't want to argue 
that Pat is wrong in his personal 
desire to avoid such housing, 
whatever his reasons. 
All I do want to say is that to try, 
as Pat has, to clothe one's own 
feelings in the garb of moral 
dictates of the Church is to do a disservice\to both the University and the students as they attempt to resolve in their own minds the question of coed living. 
Mike Sarahan 

Nausea Waves 
Dear Editor 
I am attempting to hold back the waves of nausea as I respond to the letter written by Paul Kruse regarding Saint Mary's president, John M. Duggan. I cannot recall reading such drivel since the days of Spiderman comic books. Ob­viously Mr. Kruse is unable to deal with facts and reach an accurate conclusion. To be more precise, Mr. Kruse seems unable to separate fact from fiction. 

The 'infamous Vassar yearbook scandal' has nothing to do with Saint Mary's; furthermore, I fail to see how this 'scandal' and the quotations attributed to Dr. Duggan lead Mr. Kruse to the conclusion that Dr. Duggan is prone to lip service and poor leadership. <Perhaps Mr. Kruse's logic professor has failed him?) 
I have had occasion to work with Dr. Duggan since he arrived in South Bend, and find him a very perceptive man, as well as a man of action \ Under his leadership, Saint Mary's will progress academically and continue to provide a total environment for women. But, of course, it may take him longer than three or four weeks to accomplish his goals. 
Armand J. Rigaux 
the observer 
Night Editor: Marti Hogan Assistant Night Editor: Chris 'Smith Layout Staff: Marth Fanning' John O'Donnell, Karllee Clark, Jlm Stevens, Bob Mader Day Editor: Marianne Schulte Copy Reader: Gregg Bangs Editorials: Val Zurblis Sports: Bill Brink Typists: Laura Dodge, Mary Setlock, Nell VIII, Mel Celeste, M. Keefe 
Compugraphic: Tom O'Neil, W.S. Nichols Night Controller: Bob Steinmetz Ad La ­
Ian9shats !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 


Age of Unreason tany prascia 
. It never looked strange before -an agency for Intelligence just hke the one for Interstate Highways or Wildlife. On the contrary, it seemed only natural to guarantee an oasis of intelligence in the midst of Washington's political sandbox. 
No less than Wildlife, government brains have become an en­
dangered species worthy of institutional preservation. Better that 
tha~ to suffer the prospect of the National Intellect completely 
foldmg under (lately an imminent danger). 
Yet, as often happens, "intelligence" proved only a euphemism 
fo~ ~specially unintelligent behavior. The CIA has apparently been 
ghdmg along for years now gracefully escaping the burden of real 
intelligence and cultivating instead a glamorous but slipshod kind 
of_ snooping. The word itself, in fact, has become synonomous not 
with the comprehension but with collected information however 
incomplete <thus, "sporadic intelligence" or "p~rtial in­
telligence" l. ' 
But when reports last week revealed that administration bigwigs 
found out about the Yom Kippur War only hours before we did the 
word "intelligence" seemed oddly inappropriate. ' 
Supersnoops 
Until then, the principle objection to trenchcoat politics was that it had become too good .-that government supersnoops were threat_ening to monopolize information and trespass the public's bo~d01rs. ~ut ~o more. Congressional badgering has managed to shift attention mstead to the colossal incompetence of the men with 
the information and the helplessness of nearly everyone else. 
If intelligence-in the ordinary sense-is supposed to consist of both data and good sense, the Federal Government is emerging as the least intelligent segment of the populaton. 
According to ex-CIA officer Sam Adams, the agency's "mania for. s_ecr~cy" led to, the misinfo~m~ton of key State Department officials m both the 67 Tet offenstve m VietNam and the '73 Middle East _War. In_oth~r words, it is not merely the public that is being kept m drooling Ignorance -perhaps a diplomatic necessity -but decision-makers as well. 
Finally, in a masterful stroke, President Ford crowned the pitiful parade of misinformation by forbidding Administration witnesses to offer any clarification. Henceforward unless other witnesses can be found, even the nature of secrecy ~ill be secret. . T~~ re~elations ev_idently caught many by surprise. Experienced m ndicuhng corruption, commentators didn't know what to do with plain incompetence, especially under the unlikely guise of security. When Mr. Ford began treating CIA records like Mr. Nixon had treated Watergate tapes, pundits were relieved to see familiar 
patterns. 

Uniformed power 
Still, there's a difference. The President may be innocently em­barrassed by the uninformed power and impotent intelligence apparently packing the Executive Branch. Understandable enough. But his attempt to keep the matter under cover is certain to fail: there are too many former spies who will be happy to testify. If the administration plans to waive rebuttal, so be it; but it will come no closer to wiping the egg off its face until someone is given a towel. 
Furthermore, it is only myopic to use more secrecy as a salve for ills caused by secrecy in the first place. Not unlike curing a ~angover with gin, the Executive silence will only prolong the Illness. A man so accustomed to lamenting elephantitis in other agenci~s s~ould find it easy to admit the wrongs of this one, too. 
That ts, If someone will tell him what they are. 
DOONESBURY  by Garry Trudeau  
HEAR FOR. YOUR.SeUJ MAN .... OKAY, Jl""' l-eT'S (J)CK. INrO IT THIS f TIM6!  ... TII/0.. 7HREE.­~ "I'M 1H& FIRSTMAT& OF TH& MAYAGlJ&Z... A RUSTY, WSTY TlJB FROM THE 11OAAYS...  


Wednesday, September 24, 1975 
the observer

Sixty percent of ND faculty 
Tenure means a career commitment 
by Shawn Scannell Staff Reporter 

A professor who has tenure has a secure job. Basically1 that's the idea behind the granting of tenure. Having tenure assures the professor of academic freedom so that his perosnal views and pur­suits will not endanger his position as a faculty member. 
Dean Charles of the College of Arts and Letters explained that in each department, about 60 per cent 
-of the faculty have tenure. This figure holds generally for all colleges at Notre Dame but that is is not a strict cut off point. She said, "We don't want to block up a department too much to prevent new people from coming in." Those who are tenured remamso unless the University undergoes serious financial problems rr if a given department is going to be closed down. In such cases, the 
policy is to make an effort to relocate those affected, especially those with tenure. 
The process to grant tenure begins in the particular depart­ment of the nominee. The Com­mittee of Appointments and Promotions <CAP) initiates the review of the candidate and his credentials. Usually, an individual comes up for tenure consideration at the same time as the con­sideration for his promotion to associate professor from assistant professor. The recommendation of the CAP is considered by the chairman of the department. If approved, the nominationmust be approved by the dean ol that college and then finally by the Provost's office. 
At Notre Dame, according to the faculty handbook, associate professors will not be held at that position, without tenure for more than four years total service at 
InPIRG holds first 
h • f ! ACfL~~~~~~~1~0~~ER !
1 •

announces t 1s years proJec s , IN MISHAWAKA , 
by Jill Truitt Staff Reporter 

A turnout of only twenty-five people attended the Indiana Public Interest Group <InPIRG) organizational meeting last night at LaFortune's Rathskeller. 
lnPIRG, a nation-wide, non­partisan I student-funded and directed research and action group I works for constructive social change within the established legal and political structure. 
lnPIRG's Notre Dame chapter has money to start projects but needs student volunteers, ac­cording to Lisa Molidor, spokesperson at the meeting. "We have the money to get things done with a $3,000-$4,000 budget. What we need is student input," Molidor said. 
Projects organized at the meeting of the Ralph Nader inspired group include environmental af­fairs, utilities, and studies of day care centers and mental patients' rights. 
InPIRG will also construct a Consumer Guide Handbook which will spot trends showing where to find the chapest places to buy, Molidor stated. "The Consumer Guide will be a good way to inform people of South Bend about dif­ferent products and stores so they won't get ripped-off," said Ed Zagorski, a new member of InPIRG. 
A recycling campaign is planned by InPIRG. "We want to get the school to use recycled paper as well 
Cheerleaders to sponsor dorm banner contest 
The Notre Dame Cheerleaders are sponsoring a banner contest this Friday in preparation for the home football opener against Northwestern. 
The winning entry will receive $30 and a prominent place of display at Saturday's game. 
Students wishing to enter the contest must fill out an entry form appearing in this Thursday's Observer and bring it to the Student Activities Office by noon, Friday. 
There are no restrictions on the size of the banner or the number of people working on each. 
The banners themselves must be hung outside the entrant's dor­mitory by noon, Friday. The banners will be judged Friday afternoon on the basis of originality and theme. The win­ners must be present at Friday's pep rally to receive their prize when they are announced. 
The purpose of the contest, according to student Government and the Student Affairs Office, is to raise the spirit for the first home football game and to display the artistic ability of Notre Dame's students. 
It is hoped that the contest will be enough of a success to continue the contest at all home games, as well as expand the number of entries and increase the prize money. 
Any further questions can be directed to Mary Ann Grabavoy 17819) or Andy Praschak 0770). 
S
IERRA PORTS ALE (ENDS SEPT 30th) 
ALL GERRY 
SLEEPING BAG 
-20% OFF 
l ALL CAMP 7 SLEEPING BAG -20% OFF MANY OTHER SALE ITEMS­
V% DISCOUNT OlVNUN-SALE ITE PURCHASE OF $25°0 OR MORE 
hTT'IrTT>H 
ND OR SMC J.D. OURS : MON-THURS 12-_6 FRI-12-7 ~ T-10-S 
2216 MIAMI :so. BEND 

233 -838 
Notre Dame. Assistant professors students and his standing among will not be held at that rank collea~~:ues. without tenure for more than seven Necessary are "notable years total service. achievementes in scholarship by significant publication or meaningful contribution to public 
service." Tenure is sometimes granted to 

......... observer 
assistant professors. Members of this rank must "demonstrate
Insight 

Evaluation for tenure is generally guided by the same criteria for promotion to the rank of associate professor. This doesn't mean the promotion will be granted, but usually the two are considered together and therefore 
often coincide. A hopeful for the associate professorship position, according 
to the handbook, must "demon­strate outstanding teachingability 
as evidence by the growth in teach!ng ability, promise as a scholar, interest in students and a genuine spirit necessary to keep courses continually revised and to assure his growth in knowledge and 1maturity," says the faculty handbook. 
Dean Charles added it was unusual for a tenured professor to leave a university, and therefore unusual for a professor with that standing rank to apply at Notre Dame. However, in such cases, the individual is evaluated and tenure is granted at the time of the formal 
appointment here. She said, "Tenure usually means a career commitment to a particular university. Such a commitment isn't readily changed." 
Granting of tenure doesn't in itself provide an increase in salary, but seeing that it usually coincides with the promotion, there is a pay increase involved due to the promotion. 
knowledge and maturity, his _ salutory influence upon his ' 
meeting, I -~~~b\f!T~TYING sTYLING & I 
r----e~a'S~r-----.a 
' l'  1\.Ll~ 1.JL11HAIR STYLING  _  ' l'  
l'  _ AWARD WINNING STYLISTS  l'  
a  UNIQUE ATMOSPHERE  f  

as make it," Julie Engelhart, t Phone 255 -. 6500 ! environmental affairs project 1 APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED ' 
leader, said. New members offered an 
al~ernative means of ~ecycling:
usmg bottles and can~ mstead of pap~r. "u. lot of peop. ~ li~e them 
up m the1r rooms an ' 1f some means of collecting then. could be devised, the project rould be 
overwhelmingly successful," Greg skraznas said. 
A means of transportation would be the key to this project, Russ Angelo believes. "A truck for 
transport to recycling plants is all 
lower the fee. InPIRG won a victory last February when the Public service
Commission closed a case con­cerning the efforts of Indiana Telephone companies to charge customers for dirctory assistance 
calls.

Anyone interested in joining InPIRGorhavinganysuggestions
concerning projects is urged to call Molidor at 287-2176. 
-----~~~--~~-~..,.-~
t•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••..••••••••••••••s 
• REMEMBER THE FOOD YOU USED. • 
: 
: • : 
• 
: 
: 
: 
• 
that is needed because students: would be willing to d~nate bottles 
and cans," Angelo sa1d. : The util~ties project, led by Dave •
Carlyle. 1s presently concerned:• with on-campus telephone fees. "The rate for local calls is $26 pers : 
tudent. In a four-man suite this: 
charge comes to $104 for the sch<>?l : year and only one phone IS • provided for four people," Carlyle 
said. He and his committee will : begin working immediately to 
: : :• 
i : 
:
• : • 
• TO GET AT FRANKIE'S??? :• : 
THAT'S THE SAME FOOD • 
: 

YOU GET HERE. : ( h h .• 
• 
Dorot y, t e cuisine artist with : 1 9 years of g t k. • 

O U r m e C 0 0 In9 : at Frankie's is now at Vale~ie's • 

• 
cooking the same delicious food) : 


• 

ITALIAN SPECIALTIES • : 
: 

SflAG HETTI • MOSTACIOLLI 10% discount : LAS A G N A . •
with N.D. /.D. : 

• RAVIOLI • 
: • PAST A FAGlOLl (Italian bean soup). • 
: (Dinners inc. Italian bread & salad) : 
OPEN BREAKFAST SERVED·.· 5 am to 9 pm ANYTIME : 
• 

VALERIE'S RESTAURANT : 
801 S. MICHIGAN. SO. BEND :
• 

(NEXT TO GILBERTS) 289-0681 : 
• 



ATTENTION SMC 
FRESHMEN CLASS OF '79 SOPHOMORE CLASS OF '18 
JUNIOR CLASS OF '71 
SENIOR CLASS OF '76 
LET YOUR CLASS BE THE ONE TO GIVE 
ST. MARY'S A TEAM NAME & MA~COT 
ONLY FOUR DAYS REMAINING So-
SUBMIT YOUR ENTRIES (SLOGAN AND/OR EMBLEM) TO: CATHY COYNE1 STUDENT DEVELOPMENT COMM. 
469 LEMANS BOX 1034 
any questions call 284-4958 
WINNER RECEIVES $25.00 FOR THEIR ENTRY AND 1-.HE HONOR OF HAVING YOUR ENTRY REPRESENT SMC. 
LINE FOR ENTRIES -MIDNIGHT SEPTEMBER.28~· 1~/5 



Wednesday, September 24, 1975
the observer 

Volunteers are needed 
St. Mary's InPIRG group plans first year 

by Jean Powley 
Staff Reporter 

In an organizational meeting held in the Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall last night, the maiden St. Mary's College chapter of the Indiana Public Interest Research Group (INPIRG) welcomed prospective members and discussed plans for the year. 
Since this is the first year for INPIRG at St. Mary's, the group is anxious to prove its worth to the student body. 
"We want to be able to go the students at Christmastime and say, 'This is what we did with the three dollars vou paid in your tuition'," chairman Debbie Hale explained. 
To achieve this end, the organization hopes to complete two 
F evver halls to have ~noni tors 
by Kevin Walsh Staff Reporter 

Unlike last year, not all dor­mitories on the Notre Dame campus have the services of a late night hall monitor. According to Bro. Just Paczesny, Vice President for Student Affairs, there is not enough money in the buaget for all dormitories to have monitors. 
The halls with monitors are Breen-Phillips, Farley, Badin, Walsh, Lyons, Holy Cross, Sorin, Saint-Edward's Cavanaugh and Zahm Paczesny felt the women's 
ND bicentennial festival 
to be held this March 
by Thomas J. Conaty Staff Reporter 

The nation's bicentennial celebration will receive major emphasis at the University of Notre Dame this year. A bicen­tennial festival will be held from March 7 to 11. 
A four-member committee, appointed last year by universityProvost Fr. James Burtchaell is planning the activities The members include Richard Conklin, Information Services Director, Thomas Bergin, dean for the Center for Continuing Education, Ronald Weber, director of the American Studies program and Jack Detzler of the St. Mary's College Development Committee. 
Conklin explained that the two main features of this festival will · be an academic conference and cultural activities. "An academic conference under the working theme of 'An Almost Chosen People: The Moral Aspirations of Americans,' will be presented in the center for Continuing I<:ducation," said Conklin. 
Coupled with the conference will be several cultural events, in­cluding a play, art gallery exhibits, concerts and poetry readings. There will be a worship service keyed at 18th century liturgical 
practices in Sacred Heart Church. 
Dr. William Cerny, _c~airman of the department of music, will be in charge of the cultural events portion of the festival 
Weber said that a number of well-known academic and national leaders in the areas of literature, theology, history, politics, science, 'msiness and the social sciences will address the conference in relation to its theme. No definite names were given. 
The festivities will not be limited to th•: Notre Dame-St. Mary's commt•nity. All events will be open to the South Bend com­munity. "We do expect to invite community participation," ex-projects this semester. 
Tentative plans call for the publication of a pamphlet con­cerning off-campus living. This pamphlet will explain how to handle a landlord, where to live and what to watch for in choosing accomodations. INPIRG also hopes to analyze food sold in campus vending machines. The group plans to publish a car ser­vice checklist which would evaluate the various service stations in the area. 
A survey of what health and community service facilities are needed in South Bend, may be conducted . Plans for the establishment of a recycling center are also under con­sideration. 
On the state level, St. Mary's INPIRG will survey the quality of 
dormitories would benefit most by having the monitors because many dormitories have twenty-four hour visitation lounges, thus placing the need for more protection. 
Cavanaugh-Zahm has a monitor at the request of rector Father Miceli while the other three dor­mitories are quite vulnerable to fires. 

Monitors are generally adults hired from the South Bend area to act as security guards inside the halls. They are suposed to serve as protection from theft and trespassers and provide early 
piained Conklin. "because we feel it is an important ingredient." 
"The main idea of the cun­

ference," noted Weber .. "is to promote some serious thought about the role of moral aspiration in American Culture both in the Revolutionary past and in the Watergate-Vietnam present. " 
University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh will celebrate a bicentennial mass with a special 


BOX OFFICE OPENS WEEKDAYS 6:JO -P.M. . 
.......,;.......!WM6j;l,j~.,:,;,:;~~­
drinking water. 

A day-care center investigation, involving St. Mary's, Notre Dame and Indiana University, South Bend campus, groups, is also in the planning stages. 
"We have plenty of money to work with and we want the students to get their money's worth," Hale explained. 
The idea behind the public in­terest group is concerned students to get together to research a subject, and take their findings to the media, whether the results are favorable or un­favorable. 
The group then turns the project over to professionals such as lawyers and consumer advocates, who can carry it further. 
These people are paid with money from student contributions. 
warning at outset of fires. They work from ll:OOp.m. to 5:45a.m.-­-the hours when most rectors and residents are asleep. 
Bro. Just was suprised, however, when informed that rectors from several of the men's dorms would also like to have hall monitors. He states he will speak to rectors and try to alleviate any fears they may have. 
In past years eighty percent of all residence halls P.ad hall monitors. This year, however, an ex­periment is beingconducted to determine if security can still be strong with a reduced hall monitor staff. 
"However, " Paczesny said, "if it is brought to my attention that there is a definite need for monitors in all halls once again, then we will take a second look at the hall monitors appointments and consider reestablishing their appointment." 
In order to have enough funds, money would have to be cut from other budgets under the direction of Student Affaris, but Paczesnyr declined comment as to which one or ones would be cut. 
I 8-pack 16 oz. 7Up or Pepsi, just $1 I 



I 277-1221 or 277-1222 II for I 
I Free Delivery i 
Ll anywhere on campus 1 
... 

. ·------------------------­
Each campus group has a board of directors to oversee the organization's progress. The St. Mary's chapter has, at present, a skeleton board consisting of Debbie Hale, chairman; Kathy Nolan, treasurer; Linda Hoppe, state representative; and Maribeth Marley, board member. 
Campus-wide elections will be held during the next few weeks to choose new officers. 
No weekly meetings will be held, but projects will be publicized periodically so that any interested person can become involved. 
Encouraging student in­volvement, Hale added, "You are here for four years and it's nice to know you're drinking good water, but also many of the surveys that are done affect the rest of the country too. The utilities survey done last year is being used as an example all over the country now." 
"Working for the group should change you too. It will make you feel that you can do something to make changes," Hale concluded. 

The only I authentic Italian I 
Deep Dish Pizza. I 
I 
II 

WATCH OUR ADS ALL THIS WEEK FOR AN EVENT THAT I 
YOU WON'T BELIEVE 1 (Save our valuable coupons.) I 
----~ 
Wednesd•v, Septemb_er_24_,_1_97_s___t:...:h...:....::::e'------"'o:...:b=-=-s-=e:...:r_v:::._e~r______!__7 1 
~ I President needs more security ! 
I 
!



Secret Service revises protective system 

WASHINGTON (APl -While to an overhaul of its protective custody. hearings next Tuesday or ton, Ill., on Tuesday. 
President Ford insisted Tues­system. He said it was that request Wednesday. Press Secretary Ron Nessen day he will not become a hos­Congressional leaders sug­that prompted the Secret Serv­Although official Treasury said Monday's incident, in front tage of his office, an in­gested immediate Secret Serv­ice to interview her Sunday spokesmen declined to expand of the St. Francis Hotel in San vestigating senator said the ice protection for the 1976 presi­night, the day before the shot on Simon's statement, other Francisco, has not changed the 
woman accused of trying to as­dential candidates, rather than aimed at the President. The Se­sources said the departmental President's belief that he sassinate him had pleaded to waiting until Jan. 1. cret Service said it found "she evaluation is focusing on the should continue travel. be arrested so she wouldn't As Sara Jane Moore, charged was not of sufficient protective Secret Service system for de­
The alternative, Nessen said,start "testing the system." with attempting to kill Ford interest to warrant surveillance termining in advance who would be "putting the PresidentThat disclosure promised con­Monday in San Francisco, during the President's visit." might be a threat to the Presi­in the Oval Office and kPepinggressional controversy about awaited a hearing for a pos­"The fact is that they did not dent or other officials. 

him hostage there for fourthe protection of the President, sible psychiatric examination, follow up," said Montoya, head The evaluation, which will be years."
and Secretary of the Treasury Sen. Joseph M. Montoya, D­of the committee that handles conducted by consultants from William E. Simon said the Se­N.M. told of her request Sun­Secret Service funds. He an­outside the federal government, If the President needed to cret Service already is looking day to be placed in protective . nounced his panel will begin will go into how the Secret take refuge in the White House 
Service collects information on and other prominent govern­potential threats and what cri­ment figures followed that lead,teria it uses to weed out people Nessen said, "it would mean 
who don't seem like serious that all public officials would

Hearst needs counseling 
threats. 
hide in a bunker." Ford is tentatively scheduled 
The attempted assassination 
events which intervened be­plete sanity and to the life that to speak in Chicago and Evans-was the second in 17 days. 
tween the bank episode and her she led before the terrible ex­and terror and expected to be present situation, but the very perience which she underwent murdered at any time. This prospect of going back over so at the hands of this criminal 
(continued from page 1) 
Social calendar discussed
feeling was reinforced by the painful and terrible a path has gang brought her to the condi­continuing threats of her cap­prevented her from ever at­tion in which she now is." (continued from page 1) explained. tors that they did intend to tempting to do so." Judge Carter said a panel of are planning any evc:1t to let the Shaefer O'Neill revealed plans
murder her, that she had been The affidavit said Miss three psychiatrists would find Social Commission know about it. for this year's Hall Marc program • abandoned by everyone, that no Hearst "needs help and coun­whether she can be cross-exam­
"We have a calendar," he ex­were each hall will appoint a one cared whether she lived or seling to restore herself to com-ined about the affidavit. 
plained, "and can let you know if student in charge of the dorm's died, and that if she did not do anything else is happening on that system. A period of time will be 
as she was told, she would not 
date." alloted to each hall in whichlive another hour." 
The upcoming Armory Dance marking pens will be available.
Students urged to. vote
After Miss Hearst's arrest, was also touched upon. "We are Valuables can be marked with the 
the affidavit said, she began to being given a chance to prove to social security number of athink more clearly, but she is (continued from page 1 member to go the students per-
the University that we can have student, an inventory form filled still unable to remember many "l'd like to thank all those that. sonally and inform them," Richter beer at a function without it out and a sticker given to ~ach of the events of the last 19 
voted yesterday and I strongly said. The students have to know getting out of hand," Moran student to warn others that months because they are "so urge everybody that didn't vote to who the person is that is related. valuables within the room are painful." · VotE!Jtomorrow," Spurling said. He representing them, he udded. He emphasized no one would be traceable. 
"The first full realization that strongly urged all students to Richter noted the member should allowed into the dance unless they The amount of money from hall she had been living in a fantasy 
attend the debate to be held make himself availabl~ for came by one of the buses. This was allotr last year was made world whose terrors could be tomorrow night in the Grace pit at comment, criticisms and due to the fact that SBP Ed Byrne avail the presidents. This resolved merely by returning to nine. suggestions. will be liable for _students mor 'e spent by Oct. 1 or 
"I view it as an opportunity to "I think that the voter turnout will L -~• to the respective dorm-
her family or even consulting actions after the dance with the law officers, occurred 
get the students' opinion on the comparison between the North and Insurance claims resulting from s: Badin, $355; Farley $69.48;
when her mother, her father 
main issues so that the newly-South quads shows that students misplaced Summer Storage How~ 'i, $123.72; Keenan, $415;and her sisters hugged and elected SLC member can begin to will get involved if somecne takes articles was also clarified. Lyoi·..,, ...•'1.79; Morrissey, $379.91;kissed her. work on these issues," Spurling the time to let them know what is "Anyone who wants to fill out a Pangborn, $100; St. Ed's, $37.20;
"Since then, she has at-concluded. happening and that their ideas are claim form can do so in the Om­St. Joe, $133.65; Sorin, $110.98;tempted to reconstruct the "Ithmk it's the job ot_ the SLC important, Richter concluded. budsman office," Moran Stanford, $21.92. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE .. WANTED Desperately need tickets to any
-----·------Need 3 NW and 2 MSU tickets. Call ,NOTICk:S
home game. Don 3755. 

Alice 5494. 
For sale: Macrame jewelry 
Need 3 tickets for Michigan State 
Need So. Cal tix(student or GA) and

bracelets and necklaces, plant game.. Call Mike after 6 PM 288-NDSMC Council for the Retarded 
2 GA tlx for Northwestern. Call

llangers. Also crocheted scarves. 0088. Dance Wed. nlte 7:30 10:00 PM.
Need two Northwestern and or two
Charlie 289-8948. 

Questions call Tom 287-1>673 or Kathy
Call Barb. 233-3876. So. Cal. tix. Call Murph 287-0742.9
Need 4 Northwestern tix.. Call 288-4315.Wanted: 6 tickets to Chicago con-
Mike. 287--3897 STEREO EQUIPMENT-major Typing..35 per page. Call Dan 272­
cert. Call 284-3226 (Fran) weekdays, 

brands at substantial savings; all 288-9890 after 5 weekends. 5549. factory sealed under manufac-Need 4 GA lix for Northwestern; 14 
Needed: 4 tickets to• Pittsburgh lurer's warranty.. ELLIOTT EN· GA tix for Southern Cal. Name your 3 students looking for 4th roomate at game. Call 4300. quick loans; Morrissey Loan Fund. TERPRISES 233-3769 after 3:30 price. Mary 272--4733. Campus View. 271-2701. Up to S150. 30 days, 1 percent In­
-· 
terest. Basement of LaFortune. M F
PM.. 
Wanted: Two tickets to Mich. State Need 2 GA tix to Michigan. Call 11:15-12:15. For sale: Guitar, in good condition. Wanted: Part-lime position game. Call Tom at 288-8417. 5361. 
available at the Distillery Liquor Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho
Call Kim 4677 .. 
232-0746. Must be 21 or over and presentable. Need 2 tix for Pitt game. Call Ralph tickets for Michigan State. Call 
Store.. Will require weekend work. Desperately need 3 GA or student Free-darling kittens to a good home.
Ap!Jii in person.. 1123 South Bend 8326. Mary Kay 6804ACS 6 weeks old. Call 233-8579 after 5
lab aprons on sale In 126 labs Ave.

NIEUWLAND and freshman PM.
Need GA Navy tix and GA Pitt tix. 

Need 2 tix for any home game. Maryonlv S3.. 
Call 1652.

Need 2 or 3 GA tickets fo MSU .. Call Louise 7308. Men's Shirts. women's clothing, Mark 1475.. liquid silver, turquoise, plants, For sale: Compact stereo. leather goods-· Jennifers 119 w. 
SMC COFFEEHOUSE needs all Colfax. 11:00 · 5:30 Mon.. Sat. Desperately need ride to Cincinnati, Help! 2 MSU tix; 2 USC llx. John types of talent. If you can perform.
speakers, headphones. $50.. Call 
7875.9 
Ohio this weekend. Please call 1586. be a sound technician or like to Hunger Concarn Week: Show your Debbie 212--8782.. hostess, please call Jeanie 4386 or concern by signing fasting pledge atFor sale: 1 senior season ticket. 
Tom 8736. dinner on Thursday.Call 3149. Wanted: 1 Mich.. State ticket and 3 
PERSONALS

Southern Cal tickets.. Call Dan 1219. Need one NU and 2 MSU tho.. Call Bio Club T-Shlrts arriving within the Mary 1285. week. Orders now being taken. 107
For sale: lwo racquetball racquets, Interested in becoming a Catholic"f 
Galvin Mon.. Thurs. 2:00. 4:30 until
$5 each; Sony 5" TV, $100; HP-45 Discussion group being formed. Call
Desperately need one Northwestern Oct. 2. Only $2.80.
Campus Ministry 6536 or drop In the
calculator, does standard deviation, ticket. Call 400. 8. 
office 103 Library. 
great for psych, statistics, physics 1 1 will die unless 1 get 2 Mlch State Whoever stole Quickie driver's hat
tix. Please call me now at 287-0076. Need 4 GA tix for Georgia Tech please return badge. Sentimental
courses, $225 or offer. Write 203 
Desperate.

Fisher. Phone 1945 
game.. Call 5740. value. Return to Student Gov't.
Happy Birthday DFG Remember to office.
think young and hang In there. Nedd two tix to NW and Mich. State.. 
Love, Daddy's Little Girl.
For sale: 1971 Triumph TR 6.. Steel 
Hunger Concern Week: Show yours
Will pay.. Call 291-3075 before noon DESPERATELY NEED: usc

belted radial tires. Call 272-2844 by fasting on Wednesday. Mass at 6
or after 6 PM' tickets.' Will pay well. Call 7937

after 5 PM. PM Sacred Heart.
please. 

For salt: Student season ticket.. Ravioli, 
LOST AND FOUND 289-8197. I'll always want you! Wanted: 2 General Ad. SC tickets.9 
Congratulations on winning our bet. Lost: Gold Bulova-Caravelle watchCall 6885. Needed: 1 student or GA ticket to 
The Mickey Mouse Club. with football Inscribed on the face, In 
the USC game. Please call Ellen at 

the South Dining Hall. If found call
277-0794. 

John 1169. Olivette and Staff,FOR RENT 
Need 7 GA tickets for Northwestern. Call Bill 8686. Needed: as many GA MSU tlx as 

RSVP from the red and greenpossible. $$$ 289-9164.
Room for rent: $50 a month.. Share suspension system. 5:4Sish over Lost: Man's gold Parker fountain kitchen and bath with one other soup. pen In vicinity of Nortll Dining HaH student. Call 2329311 or 289--9533 Sunday. Reward. Call 6885.
Need 2 GA Navy tlx. Call Kevin 8720. Need 2 tlx to Southern Calif. or 

AS & the Ramblln Man. Georgia Tech. Call Ron 3374. 
For rent: Clean, comfortable Found: One little white kitten. bedroom, study room, and bath $30 Please hurry and claim becausjt 
~ month. Mrs. Spencer 233-· Sex Is nice, but 1desperately need 1 Need 2 GA Northwestern tickets. Happy birthday, peach. You are · housemate hates lt. Chester 288­
•
;,.,.. MSU ticket even mor..e. Danny 8102. Call Paul 3018. law. Love, Doll· 4217 
-~--­

the observer Wednesday, September 24, 1975 



ND cross-country outlook good 
By Mike Towle championships. In addition, he is a spirited team man. After he won Joe Piane, head Notre Dame the Purdue race, Jim expressed cross-country coach, not only disappointment that we split our hopes, but knows that his squad of two matches instead of winning runners will present formidable both. (Notre Damelost to Purdue, competition to opposing teams this but defeated Illinois State). His hll. putting team performance ahead 
''I am the coach of what I feel is of his own is a quality that prevails or. ·of the top cross country teams throughout the team." in lCAA District Four." Joe Yates, a Warwick, Rhode 
G. ~nted, Piane is in his first ~ Ilsland resident now in his senior year as head coach after having year, returns as another topnotch been an assistant for two years to performer. Last season, he predecessor. 1Don Faley. But a alternated with Hurt as the quick review of his roster confirms number-one runner and should find his statement as being more than himself in a similar positon for just one of optimism. 1975. Yates also earned the right to 
"I'm optimistic that we may run in the NCAA's last year thanks have an All-American this year in to a strong 15th place finish in the either Jim Hurt or Joe Yates", District Four championship. Does adds Piane. Joe, who has run an 8:54 two-mile, 

Joe Piane

Captain of the 1975 edition of have confidence in his ability to Notre Dame cross-country is improve on last year? Reinhart occupied the number­senior Jim Hurt, a native of "I think my experience will be three spot for the Irish last year Westchester, Illinois. advantageous to my future and missed qualifying for the 
In Notre Dame's first meet at success," he says. "Teamwise, NCAA's by a mere four seconds. Purdue Sptember 13, Hurt took we're looking exceptionally good. Reinhart~ hails from Sioux Falls, individual honors over the five-There is a great battle going on for South Dakota and will probably be 
• mile course with a time of 24:53 top spots on the squad and it should the 'pivotman' of the team ac­beating out runners from Illinois provide incentive for every man to cording to Piane. State and the host Boilermakers. perform his best throughout the "Jim is vital to the success of our Hurt's victory in the double-dual fall schedule." team this season. If he performs meet came as no great surprise to Challenging Hurt and Yates for well, then the whole team will. He Piane, however. the top spots are junior Jim is the key to our being a great team "Jim is an excellent distance Reinhart and the freshman· duo of in 1975", adds Piane. runner who has run a 4:09 mile and Steve Welsh and Dennis Van­In his first race as a Notre Dame late year, qualified for the NCAA derkraats. runner, freshman Welsh finished 
an impressive third at Purdue, finishing only eight seconds behind 
N. Illinois takes first in 
teammate Jim Hurt. A resident of Hannibal, Missouri, Welsh brings exceptional credentials to Notre Dame. While a junior in high 

ND open:lrish place third 
The second annual Notre Dme team total eclipsed the mark-of school, he captured first place in 
Fall Golf Invitational was held 384, set in last year's inaugural the Missouri state cross countrytoday on the Burke Memorial Golf event by Indiana State University. 
championships before a minorCourse and the Huskies of Nor­Northern Illinois was lead by the injury kept him from pervorming
thern Illinois were the victors with one-two punch of Mick Soli and at his best in his se11ior year. a score of 379. The 24-over par Scott Webster. Soli registered six 
Another freshman who ran
birdies enroute to taking medalist 

admirably at Purdue is Van­
honors with a 72, while teammate

Irish 7th 

derkraats. He hails from Michael
Webster fireed four birdies to 

Power High School in Toronto,
finish one shot behind. Purdue had 

Ontario. The Canadian has run
all six men finish under 80 on the

in AP poll 

four miles in an impressive ti1"1e of
par71, 6500 yard layout, but it was 
20:22.

Here are the Top Twenty not enough to overcome the One of the more consistentteams in The Associated Press 
Huskies as the Boilermakers 

runners is Marc Boiva, acollege football poll, with first­
finished second, four shots behind. 

sophomore from Belleville,place votes in parentheses, sea­
The host Irish wer third, at 385, 
Illinois. Coach Piane adds:son records and total points. 

lead by senior Paul Koprowski's 

"Marc was our fifth man all last Points based on 20-18-16-14-12-74. Koprowski went out in 40, but year. He is a good solid runner and
10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1: 
rallied with a pair of birdies to fire 

had a good summer of training. He!.Oklahoma (56) 2-0-0 1,192 
a one-under 34 on the backside, 

should have another steady year "2.0hio St. (3) 2-0-0 1,031 
coupling with freshman Tim 

The darkhorse of the team couid3.S. Calif. (1) 2-0-0 954 
Saurs' 75 bettering the Irish's 

be Jay Miranda, a former Ohio4.Nebraska 2-0-0 
700 score of387 in the Invitational last 
state half-mile char.1pion. Miranda 5.Missouri 2-0-0 697 year. 
enters his freshman year at Notre6.Texas 2-0-0 530 
Notre Dame's golf' team will .be 

Dame and is a resident of7.Notre Dame 2-0-0 500 
out of action until October 13, when 
CIP.veland.

8.Texas A&M 2-0-0 472 
the wind up the fall season at the 

9.Michigan 1-0-1 457 "This year's schedule is very
inital Indiana Intercollegiate Golf 

10. 
UCLA 2-0-0 441 competitive. We host Michigan

Championship, a 36-hole event to 


11. 
Alabama 1-1-0 284 State this Friday and then host the 


be contested downstate at the Golf 

12.Penn St. 2-1-0 278 Notre Dame Invitational October
Club of Indiana. 

13.Arizona St. 2-0-0 115 10. This race is the largest annual 14.West Virginia 2-0-0 99 invitational held in the country.
team scoring:

15.Arizona 1-0-0 79 Later we will participate in the
1. Northern Illinois 379 

16.Tennessee 1-1-0 60 Indiana Intercollegiate meet that
2. Purdue 383 

17 .Oklahoma St. 2-0-0 41 will also feature Purdue, Inadiana, 
3. Notre Dame (Gold) 385 

18.Stanford 0-1-1 24 Indiana State and Ball State. These 
4. Wisconsin State-Milw. 395 

19.Florida 1-1-0 19 schools are always the powers in
5. Indiana State 403 

~O.Maryland 2-1-0 18 the midwest. On November 1, we 

Luther Bradley was named UPI back of the week for his play against Purdue Saturday. 
·.~ 

j 



Jim Hurt Joe Yates 
*Observer 





Sports 

travel to Penn State for the Central independents. Of course, the Collegiate Conference Meet which biggest meet on our schedule is the will include teams from the Big NCAA District Four qualifier Ten, Big Eight and the Mid­where we hope to make the NCAA American Conferenc, and major championship."
ND 
women1s tennis team places second, then first 

makein~ her the Number 1 player opened its season this year by at the tournament. placing second at the Ball State Notre Dame defeated Purdue, Invitational Saturday and Calumet campus, here on Monday. defeating Purdue, Calumet The tournament consisted of five ~ campus, here on Mond~y .. singles and two doubles matches, At the Ball State Invitational, a and Notre Dame won every one. quint match, Notre Dame finished Betsy Fallon again took first in second as a team defea~ing the tournament in singles. The DePauw, Ball State, and Indiana second doubles team, Ellen State. Callahan and Anne Kelly, played Co-captain Betsy Fallon fared very well, winning their matches 6­the b~st at ~he match overall. As 0, 6-2. Carol Simmons came back the first smgles player f?~ the strong after an illness over the ~otre . Dame team, she fim.s~ed weekend to win her matches 6-3,6­first m top seed competition 3. 
The Women's Tennis Team 
ARE YOU TIRED OF THE INCONVENIENCE OF A DOWN­

TOWN FAST PRINTER OR ARE YOU TIRED OF BEING HARASSED AND TURNED DOWN ON CAMPUS FOR 
THOSE RUSH JOBS? THEN COME TO THE 


Campu1 
PICII 
ONE DAY SERVICE 
ON ALL CAMERA READY 8 1/2 x 11,
s•;2 x 14, & 11 x 17 POSTERs BROUGHT TO.CAMPUS PRESS BY 2:00PM 
HOURS-1 TO 5 MONDAY THRU FRIDAY IN THE BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE 
WE PRINT ANYTHING ­POSTERS, TICKETS. BOOKLETS, CARDS. RESUMES, ETC. WE 
ALSO MAKE DITTO & MIMEO COPIES. CHECK OUT OUR PRICES FIRST. 





