
-------------------------~-~--------~--~--~-------~--~---~---------~------~-­
.:fr!f~ ..~-',, . \ . :·~-:· !'·;,.~ 
~--Hesburgb. ans calendar dominates discussion 
by Phil Cackley l.ate Reporter 
l<'r. Theodore Hesburgh, University president, 
spoke last night to a crowd of 250 disenchanted 
students in Grace Hall, responding to questions posed 
by members of the audience largely on the topic of 
next year's calendar. 
llesburgh 's talk was originally to be on the topic of "Notre Dame: Past, Present and Future " It was scheduled several weeks ago by the Grace Hall Cultural Commission. 
The affair turned into what Jack Kasel, cultural 
commissioner for Grace, termed a "monopoly by the 
members of the HPC <Hall Presidents' Council) . " 
He said the "atmosphere was perpetrated and en­
couraged by the HPC." 
l<~arlier in the evening, posters were hung by the II PC at both the dining halls urging students to attend the meeting at Grace to "talk to Fr. Hesburgh about his calendar." . . 
Kasel said the event was planned two and a half months ago and was to be a discussion with members of the hall on topics not related to the calendar. He 

by Mary Pat Tarpey Starr Heporter 
Students at the Universfty of Notre Dame will conduct a "laugh in" Friday against a school decision to eliminate the Friday after Thanksgiving as a school holiday, Student Body President Ed Byrne said. It will be held at 1 
p.m. on the steps of the ad­ministration building. 
Byrne explained, "We couldn't think of a better way to explain what happened at the Academic Council that caused them to choose this calendar. By having this laugh-in with the students and the faculty we hope to publically ~how the discontent of the Notre Dame community." 
The event is being called a "laugh-in" because Byrne sees thE situation as being absurd. "It's ridiculous. We think the rationale bPhind the decision is funny." 
TheAcademic Council voted 31-14 in favor of a calendar which limits the break at Thanksgiving to Thursday only with classes held on Friday. The calendar was not included in the student govern­ment survey. 
What Byrne hopes to accomplish aside form indicating discontent 
Today's OBSERVER is the last of this semester. Publication resumes on /anuary 14. 
is to "first encourage parents to send an irate letter" to the Academic Council in opposition of the proposition. 
Byrne described the loose format as beginning with an ex­planation of what apparently happened and hopefully that will spur questions. Byrne also said that University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh and Fr. James Burtchaell, University Provost, are aware of the "laugh-in" but whether or not they will come is uncertain. 
Secondly, he feels the only way to expect any change and or reconsideration is if the faculty members pressure the faculty representatives since it was the faculty members vote which weighed heavily in the vote for Friday classes. 
Byrne commented on the entire situation by saying "I agree with the editorial which said we 'reached a new height of absurdity' with this calendar. Telling faculty and students to attend classes on that Friday is like trying to stop the wind." 
Byrne hopes that all members of the community who wonder how the council made its decision will come today. 
said he dld not see many people who were from the hall at the talk. Joe Bury, a Grace resident, said he saw "very few people from Grace and the ones who were from Grace were disgusted." He stated that "the HPC used Grace Hall as vehicle for a rap sessior on thecalendar." 
Hesburgh began his presentation by immediately laying aside his prepared ·top1c and opening the floor to questions from the audience because he felt the students were ''more interested in the future than the 
past: or the present." The first questioner asked how much letters from parents influenced the decision on the calendar. Yesterday's Observer said a major reason for the move was that Hesburgh had received "quite a few" letters from parents upset at · bearing the expense of two trips during the semester. Hesburgh resl?onded to this saying that it was "a small potato in a pile of big potatoes," that it was not an influence. A much greater influence, he said, was the issue of having two extended breaks late in the semester, 
Fr. Hesburgh facing a calendar-conscious crowd last night at Grace Hall. 
near each other and near finals. This, in the opinion 
(Photo by Tom Lose)
(Continued on pa e i8 
e server 
university of notre dome st. mary's college 
Frida , December S, 1975 

Others unavailable 
Faculty, students respond 

by Marianne Schulte Staff Reporter 

Faculty and administrators were conspicuously unavailable for comment yesterday in regard to the announcement of the 1976-77 academic calendar by the Academic Council of the University, while student response vehemently expressed itself in a variety of public and private reaction. 
Dr. James T. Cushing, member of the Academic Council and one of the few faculty members willing to offer comment, identified himself as approving of the calendar, which allows a nine.Uay October break but limits the Thanksgiving holiday to one day. 
"At this point, I really do not have much feeling about it," Cushing admitted. "It seems that the students can't make up their minds exactly what they want. 4.fter voting last year in favor of a post-labor day start with no Oc­tober break, 92 per cent of the students now opt again for the pre­Labor day start with long October break and short Thanksgiving 
vacation , although it is very clear that a certain number of class days are essential in the university academic calendar." 
Cushing, whose class attendance policy is not to take attendance, feels that it is up to the individual 

Byrne: a call for a 'laugh-In' and a petition for reconsideration. 
student to determine his own 
academic progress. 
"Although I have never taken attendance, I have never cancelled a class either, and next year will be no exception. I will hold class as usual, and it will be up to the in­dividual student to brief himself on the missed lecture," Cushing asserted. "I will not, however, choose to be monarchal and issue a test on that day in order to insure full class attendance." 
Family holiday 

Professor Madonna Kolben­schlag, Associate Professor of American Studies, identified with the students' viewpoint that a one­day break at Thanksgiving is too short, although she feels that a nine.Uay October break slows the learning process in breaking the pace of study. 
"I don't think it follows the human rhythms established by our culture to deprive the community of the opportunity to spend the national holiday at home with their families," Kolbenschlag said. "After all, who really wants to spend Thanksgiving in South Bend?" 
Father Thomas Tallarida, 'the rector of Zahm Hall, reflected the feelings of the hall staffs, who will now have to remain on campus over break, although this year rectors and hall staffs were not obliged to. 
"Although the new calendar allows for an extended October break, Thanksgiving has always been an important time with the family," Tallarida affirmed. "The quality of the two breaks is different. Over October break many of the other family members are scattered in different areas. But at Thanksgiving, all family members come home to spend the holiday together." 
Students stunned 

Junior Class President Rob Tully expressed concern over the shortened October Break and the confusion it creates with the senior class trip to Southern California planned for next year. 
"It's preposterous," Tully argued. "The senior class trip was tentatively being planned to extend 
Burtchaell: stand in favor of a Friday of classes. 
from that Wednesday a'fternoon to Monday, providing University Provost Father James Burtchaell would grant the seniors the extra 
day off. The new calendar puts a clamp on that possibility now -how can we ask for two and a half days off? 
Petition distributed 
A student government sponsored petition is now being organized and distributed by Tom Soma and will be circulated this weekend through the Hall President's Council. The petition states, "We, the un­dersigned students, believe that the Fall semester of the 1976-77 academic calendar should not include the Friday immediately following Thanksgiving as a regular class day." 
Student government is hoping for complete student support Cat least 5000 signatures) of this petition, which will be presented to the Chariman of the Academic Council. Students are urged to make their feelin~s felt. 
The student representatives to the Academic Council felt that their feelings had been disregarded in the decision of the new calendar. Expressing their feelings in a letter to the Observer, they urged all students to write letters and encourage their parents to write letters favoring a Thanksgiving break. 

the observer Friday, December 5, 1975
2 
an campus taday 
friday, december 5, 1975 
9:30am -sale "ladles of notre dame UNICEF sale" library aud. 
-seminar "the teacher's commitment to heed the voice of the dead" by thomas werge, n.d. library liunge 
12:15 
pm 

12:15 
pm -travelogue "tantalizing thailand" by mike sinsko, rm. 278 galvin aud. 


5:15pm -evensong "vespers" log chapel 
5:15pm -mass and dinner, bulla shed 
6:30pm -dinner "madrigal christmas dinners" regina hall, sold out 7 pm -swim meet 7, 9, 11 pm -film "the longest yard" engineering aud. $1 
7:30pm -lecture "eckankar" library lounge 
7:30pm -hockey "n.d. vs. wisconsin" ace fieldhouse 
7:30pm -dinner-dance "christmas at tippecanoe place" 
, [ 
sponsored by ladies of notre dame, reservations: mrs. cornelius brown, 233-5767
' 8 pm -stage presentation "fasion" by nd-smc theater,
r 
o'laughlin aud., tickets: $2 general; $1.50 students, faculty, staff. · 
10 pm -smc coffeehouse "tim miller, 10; pat russel, 11; mary fran & sheila llebscher, 12" snack shop 
saturday, december 6, 1975 
1pm -basketball "notre dame vs. texas tech" ace arena 
6:30pm -dinner "madrigal christmas dinners" regina hall, sold out 
7, 9, 11 pm -film "the longest yard" engineering aud. $1 
7:30pm -hockey "notre dame vs. wisconsin" ace fieldhouse 
8 pm -stage presentation "fashion" by nd-smc theater, o'laughlin aud., tickets: $2 gener-al; $1.50 students, faculty, staft. 
sunday, december 7, 1975 
4, 8:15pm -concert "christmas choral concert" sacred heart church 
6:30pm -dinner "madrigal christmas dinners" regina hall, sold out 
6:30 pm -reception "international students reception" library aud. 
monday, december 8, 1975 
-holy day mass "feast of ~mmaculate conception"5 pm sacred heart church 
7:00 pm -chess club meeting room 227 math and computer center 


Bangs, Tom O'Neil, W.S. : OPEN 1 BREAKFAST SERVED: ~:~l Bill Brink, Fred ! PRO SHOP ~ ! 5 am to 9 pm ANYTIME i 
~::is~~lest;,a~~~il 1 ~y~:~:~: : 321 SOUTH NOTRE DAME ; !. ~~L~~~~~H~C:!~~s~~~~To ~ 
Tessie Clemens, Bill Brink * so·u·TH BEND .233-8712 ** : ~~~~~graphic: Morey ~******************************** : (NEX,T T9 ~~L~ERTS).. _28,9 ~ 0681 : 
~· ,';' ............... :.--, ', ...·:.:; ..' ;;. . . ·····--···-···············...·•·.............._....
,~. ' .. ' it"• .~ . ;. "" t ( ( ~ ~ ~ t ~ i ~ i (' ' G .. \. f) .. "' \. "" .. "' ' ' ' \ \ , ' • \ ' •• ' ~ \ ·' •• ' ·' I
(,•to .• ,._._ I • ll ' ' t , f f : ·.;. J ., I .... ., . '. .~-' .• ·•\: :01~ .. ' ·-·~ ·,: .4~&~,~,~~~-."'J.,.~~~""'_,..,.,~,-~1~··~· ~.;
::'),'),•>~ ~-~ ~,'~ :i :j1.1._t}1; ~-t-1'1.~ ~~ ~-!f.t J,•,.~ ·:~0 \;IJ:I >~.'.~f.•~~·~--~··' j '/,'-1.-:.f; l:l'. ·'.;..,...,:• ·~-'!Jnf;\'~ •.:·,,t,~:,,i\ ),-Y-f.~ 4.'.f,J'_4 n: •:J' ,' •,I 
Friday, December 5, 1975 
the observer 
3 

Corrugated town's plans altered j 
by Mark Murphy Staff Reporfer 
Plans to construct a corrugated fiberboard village on the Notre Dame campus have been modified in recent weeks, according to the originators fo the proposal. 
Chuch Canavan, AI Sondej and Hank Miller, directors of the project known as Habitation Conservation <HABICON>, had the proposal submitted to the University Board of Officers on Nov. 20. 
While the board thought HABICON was a sound idea and agreed with the basic concepts, it did not see the feasibility of erecting an entire village and have it inhabitied by Notre Dame students. 
Th~ o~ficers did, however, give permiSSion for the construction of several test structures on University property next semestrer and also all facilities that would be necessary for further 
research. 
The board believed that a working model community belongs at a place which is in need of that 
type of housing. 
"It's not really a disappointment for us," noted Canavan "because it simply means we'll intensify our work in other areas of the 
proposal." 
Miller and Canavan will continue to refine desighn methods of the fiverboard structures which are used for disaster relief housing and for permanent poverty areas. 
The two architecture majors are also further researching aspects of portable methane digester, wind and solar energy. 
But willing to go along with it 
IH<:IRUT, Lebanon <AP) ­Bands of gunmen took over Beirut streets Thursday in a wave of kidnapings that touch­l'd off renewed clashes between Christian and Moslem militias. 
Army commandos killed two armed men in an exchange of fire at Beirut International Air­port. The gunfire spread panic among hundreds of passengers awaiting flights out of the jitte­ry Lebanese capital. 
The renewed violence emp­tied offices and shops. Most Beirut residents fled home, fearing the 10-day-<>ld cease-fire in Lebanon's civil war was heading for collapse. By late afternoon the city was desert­ed. 
Premier Rashid Karami called an emergency meeting of his cease-fire commission consisting of heads of Moslem and Christian private armies, national security chiefs and Palestinian guerrilla leaders. 
A police source said there was increasing evidence militia leaders and guerrilla captains were unable to control their own gunmen, leaving local cease-fire committees pow­erless to halt the abductions. 
More than 17 persons were captured by roaming gangs be­fore nightfall, police reported, adding to the 120 captured overnight. The victims often are held only a short time but sometimes are tortured or killed if their captors believe they have Jinks with opposing forces. 
David Dodge, a long-time American resident of Beirut, 
MERRY CHRISTMAS 
& 
Good luck on your finals 
FROM YOUR FANS AT 
Milano's 
OPEN AT 4:00 PM 
412 N. HILL ST. PHON.E 287-2891 
"This is where the University community will play a major part," explained Miller. We're going to need school personnel and facilities for our testing. Having the technical advice and the use of laboratories will aid us tremen­dously." 
The computer is going to play a major role in HABICAN's research along with Andy Joseph, a fifth year architecture student, heading that phase of the opration. 
"The collection of data in the technical, social and physical aspects will be fed into the com­puters to find correlations and get exact test results," Canavan said. 
Once completed, the final design and test results will be made into a presentation to be delivered at the United Nations Habitat Conference in Vancouver, British Columbia 


SMC opposed to calendar 
by Margie lrr St. Mary's Assistant Editor 
Dr. William A. Hickey, St. Mary's vice-president of Academic Affairs stated that St. Mary's administrators are "absolutely opposed'' to the new calendar guidelines approved by Notre Dame Academic Council. 
A proposal given to Fr. James T. Burtchaell, Notre Dame Provost, by Dr. John M. Duggan, St. Mary's president. was "obviously given no consideration," said Hickey. 
The SMC proposal included a post-Labor Day start, a weeklong mid-semester break, a Thanksgiving break. The proposal provided for 68 class days. 
"I attended the Academic Cm~ncil meeting," said Hickey. "I was really surprised that no one presented the proposal or even mentioned St. Mary's position on the new guidelines." 
"St. Mary's will reluctantly go along," said Hickey, though we are very opposed." 
Hickey noted that the question of continued cooperation between St. Mary's and Notre Dame is decided by the calendar. 
Two years ago the fall semester calendars for the two schools were in conflict. St Mary's October break began and ended one day later than that of Notre Damt;. St. Mary's Thanksgivingvacation was two class days longer than Notre Dame's. 
Administrators who approved the 1973-74 calendar were confident that problems with the coexchange program could be easily resolved. Hickey noted, however, that there actually were "multiple problems" in schedules con­cerning exams and rides to and from school. 
''Two calendars would be 

unreasonable," said Hickey. 
The 1973-74 experiment clearly indicated that coexchange and the cooperative departments, such as Education, Speech and Drama and Religious Studies, could not con­tinue under such a calendar, he noted. 
''In the final analysis, this action shows that St. Mary's is more concerned with the cooperative programs and what they are worth, as well as with the students," Hickey commented. 
Hickey said that he understood that transportation for two breaks could get expensive. But more people feel strongly about being at home, with their families at Thaksgi ving. 
"We've debated and we've talked," Hickey said. "The decision has been made. It is an unfortunate decision. One that I am sure that both schools will regret having made." 
Beirut street violence again increases as roving bands of gunmen prevail 
was picked up by gunmen Wednesday evening and robbed of his car and about $50 before being released unharmed. 
Acquaintances said the kid­napers accused Dodge, an oil pipeline executive, of helping smuggle arms to the right-wing Christian Phalange party mi­litia. 
The kidnapers allegedly iden­tified themselves as members of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, but a spokesman for the front denied any connection with the in­cident. 
next May. 
The presentation will hopefully convince disaster relief agencies and even certain countries to use the cellulose fiberboard housing units which are biodegradable, rapidly and inexpensively produced, lightweight and 
durable. 
"If things go as planned, then w'll go directly to fiberboard manufacturers around the world," explained Miller. 
"We'll have exact design and technical information and the companies will simply manufacture the boards to the right specifications." 
AI Sondej of the World Hunger Hunger Coalition sees HAJ!ICON as an educational model for ihe Notre Dame and South Bend communities. 
"The housing units designed should prove to be an incenteve and illustration of how to conserve 
SUNDAY 
STUDENT NIGHT SUNDAY 
NOV 9th NO COVER CHARGE & "lUR FIRST DRINK 1/2 PRICE . WITH THIS AD & YOUR 
NO OR SMC ID HE WHITE HOUSE 
8 MI. N. OF STAT!!; TAKE 31 TO NILES THEN NORTH ON 51 3 MILES. 683~9842 

• GAS TANK REPAffiiNG Welding · Heater• 
SAME DAY SERVICE 
1136 MISHAWAKA 

OBSERVER * CHRISTMAS* PARTY!!!!!!!!! 
*

es folks it is that time of year again. 
You can once more sing, dance, eat and drink.!! 
Saturday Dec. 6, 8:30--?? Campus View Community Center Observer van leaves library circle 8:30, 9, 9:30, and also goes to St. Mary's. Anyone who has worked on the Observer may come and blow off all your frustrations in one (1) evening! 
and 1share our finite natural resources," he said. 
"A liveable/ fiberboard house for a family could be bought for under $100,"Sondej noted, "and a man 

l
earning a $10,000 salary could contribute that much more ro agencies throughout the world which help the poor. I f we are to equally respect the right to life of all people, then we must conserve and share our resources with the poor." 
He said that the board's decision was understandable and noted that, without nay recruitment, twenty people had volunteered to live in the proposed fiberboard village. 
Canavan said that student in­volvement in HABICON would hopefully be very heavy semester. "We've got a lot to do in many different areas and we're going to need as much help as possible in the months ahead," he concluded. 

l 

~----------~--­
the observer Friday, December 5, 1975
4 
Extremists wage terror actions in Holland 

AMSTERDAM, The Nether­lands <AP> -South Moluccan extremists waged twin terror actions in Holland on Thursday in their struggle for an East In­dies homeland. 
They seized the Indonesian consulate in Amsterdam with 21 children and at least 15 other hostages. Ninety miles to the north, comrades holding a hi­jacked train since Tuesday led 
one of their 38 hostages to the door and shot him. 
The extremists are from among 40,000 natives of the South Molucca Islands of In­donesia who fled or were ex­pelled to the Netherlands since an abortive uprising against Ja­karta rule in 1950, the year after the Dutch granted inde­pendence to Indonesia. 
In a typed message from the Beilen gunmen relayed by a mediator. the Moluccans said, "'We are doing this because the people in the train and the Dutch people did not approach the Dutch government 25 years ago when great injustice was done to our people." The state-
Senate limits 
debate on rail 
reorganization 
WASHINGTON <APl -The Senate limited debate Thursday on a multibillion-dollar bill up­grading the nation's railroads and reorganizing seven bank­rupt carriers in the Northeast. 
In a 61 to 27 vote, one more than necessary, the Senate in­
voked cloture and moved the 
r rail bill ahead of legislation aiding New York City. 
r 
The sponsors of the legisation also announced that an attempt
f 
would be made to work out a compromise with the Ford ad­ministration before the legisla­tion was submitted to a vote. 
The administration has threatened to veto the legisla­tion and to call Congress back in a special Christmas session unless substantial changes are made in the proposal.
None of the amendments sub­mitted during the early stages of the Senate debate addressed the administration's objections. 
The President objects to the cost of the measure and op­poses a legal change which the administration says would open the doors of the Treasury for creditors of the seven railroads to be reorganized. 
The rail legislation authorizes $8.5 billion to reorganize the seven railroads and to provide new funding for other railroads to rebuild their track and equipment. It would also pro­vide $1 billion in federal loan guarantees for needy railroads. 
Nedyear you could be on 
scholarship. I 
I I
~ An Air Force ROTC 2-year 
1 
scholarship. Which not only 1 
i pays your tuition, but also gives you $100 a month al-· : lowance. And picks up the tab I for your books and lab fees, : as well. ' And after college, you'll re­
ceive a commission in the Air· Force ... go on to further, spe­cialized training ... and get started as an Air Force officer. There'll be travel, responsibil­ity, and a lot of other benefits. 
But it all starts right here ...in college ...in the Air Force ROTC. Things will look up ••• so look us up. No obligation, 
of course. 
Call Capt. M. L. Stockdale Asst. Prof. of Aerospace Studies. Phone 283-6635. 
Put it al together in Air Force ROTC 
.·.:. '~~~1!';~~~~~.._~..-:'!':~..................... ............,......~..........,.,......~~ 
ment was signed: "Free South all Royal Marines and state po­Moluccan Youth." lice across Holland on full 
The Netherlands cannot grant alert. them a homeland now and Authorities gave these ac-there was no realistic ex-counts of the two sieges: pectation that Indonesia would. In Amsterdam, six South Mo-
Dutch Premier Joop den Uyl luccans armed with a carbine, said the consulate occupation in pistol and knives stormed the Amsterdam and the train hi-Indonesian consulate building jacking in Beilen 90 miles to at midday. the north were connected. He The building also houses an called it a "horrible situation" Indonesian school and a travel and the propects "very som-agency, and the gunmen herded ber." 21 children and the patrons of 
Officials said a large group of the agency to an upper floor. South Moluccans was observed In all, the gunmen were be­moving toward Beilen from As-lieved to hold between 50 and sen, a town 10 miles to the 60 hostages in the consulate north where many South Moluc-building. cans live. Authorities said the Four consulate staffers es­purpose of the move was not caped by climbing down a rope.known. All were hospitalized; one was 
The Defense Ministry placed wounded by rebel gunfire and 
rr~;ki;;To-;thcrt-;;-p;ci:t-;;'kiilT.;i~-hand
I crafted item with a casual elegant look?
II 

Shop at Les Fraises! 
1 All hand crafted Christmas ornaments 
I 

I & Christmas decor wood carvings,
I 
I 

marble sculture, metal sculpture,
I 

lmacrami, pottery, jewelry, toys & dolls,
•I 

batiks, weaving, paintings & etchings,
I 
I 

baskets hand knit, crocheted
I 
I 

I & hand sewed articles ect. 
I 
I 

LES FRAISES
I 
I 

open tues -sat 10-Spm
I 

I fri 10 -9pmI sun 2-5pm 
I 301 e. chicago rd. sturgis. mich. 
l.-~-----.!l~2.~~.!2.l ______..Ji.'i.jr.i'.lr.I.iW.i.1;.I."ii.&.lil~~............llll............... 
r~.......--.....--....__........................-...................................--................,..1 
I 


II I
I 
I
I 
II 

Go home on Allegheny. And save yourself some money. We offer a wide variety of discount travel plans with big savings for groups and individuals. 
The Liberty Fare. You can go home and a lot of other places besides, with unlimited travel at one low price. You get a choice of 3 plans, too-7 days for $129, 14 days for $149 and 21 days for$179. Good everywhere we fly, except Canada. 
Group 10. Save up to 331/J% roundtrip (up to 20% O!J.e way). Groups of 10 or more save when they purchase tickets 48 hours in advance and take off together. And you can each return separately, if you like. Good everywhere we fly. 
Group 4-9. Save up to 20% roundtrip. Groups of 4 to 9 save when you make reservations 48 hours in advance and fly together to and from selected cities. Stay at least 3 but no more than 30 days. 
the three others were injured in the escape. Three other staffers inside the consulate were be­lieved wounded in the initial burst of gunfire. 
The rebels hoisted the red, white and green flag of their "Republic of the Moluccas" over the consulate as police and armed vehicles quickly cordoned the building off. 

Police delivered food, in­cluding two large crates of milk to the occupied consulate in early evening. Officers said that the gunman asked for the Rev. S. Metiary to serve as mediator. The South Moluccan clergyman had mediated in Beilen the previous day. 
~"' 
~ 
I 
I ~ 
I 

Leave before noon on weekdays­anytime on weekends. 
Weekend. Save up to 25% on your roundtrip ticket when you go and return on a Saturday or Sunday. 
For complete information on all of our money-saving discount traw.I plans and flight reservations. see your Travel Agent or call your local Allegheny Airlines reserva­tions number. And get ready to go home or anywhere else. 

Friday, December 5, 1975 the observer 5 
----~--------~------------~~· ~~~------~ 




HPC accomplishments discussed 
by Pat Cuneo 
Staff Reporter 
Chairman of the Hall Presidents' Council Elton Johnson said Thursday night that his goal at the beginning of this year "was to make students feel that the HPC is their body and they can go to it at any time. As for the Ad­ministration and faculty --to show them that we really represent the students." 
As of this time, evidence is pointing in Johnson's favor. 
"The HPC is designed so that any student can come to us for help but in practical terms we try to eoordinate the 21 dorms the best way we can," cited Johnson. 
One of his first obstacles was the 
redesigning of a completely out­
dated HPC constitution. 
"The only things the old con­
stitution contained were election 
proceedings for the chairman with 
no outlined HPC procedures or 
functions nor defined purpose for 
the body," related Johnson. 
1'\t•w constitution drawn up 
The HPC drew up a new con­stitution and also encouraged the separate halls to do so and most of them eomplied. Presently, the council has a file of all the in­dividual constitutions and are completing a master plan for an ideal constitution according to .Johnson. 
In an attempt to solve problems that individual halls could not eonquer on their own, the HPC has appealed to the Student Union to permit them to sponsor movies on camus. 
The Student Union Policy for the last several years has been to disallow halls the opportunity to sponsor films as a money making social function. To help those halls in bleak financialstatus, the HP­C has intervened in an attempt to get the movies and are currently awaiting a decision. 
Rockne trophy established 

On a brighter side, the HPC has established the Rockne Trophy, a traveling trophy presented each month to the hall that has spon­sored the most activities outside or within the hall for that month. The winner for September was Lewis Hall. The October and November winners have bot yeat been named. A panel of three judges, consisting of Dean Roemer, Assistant Provost Dr. Burke and Fr. Robert Griffin collaborate on the decision. 
The HPC has aslo developed the idea of the "HPC Roundtable" which is a set of meetings between hall presidents, vice-presidents, selective section leaders and commissionsers. 
With a purpose of providing a better input among dorm students, the first meeting will be held in January. 
An insurance seminar to inform 
students on "all aspects of life 
insurance and other policies" is in 
operation now. 
Prudential representative Andy Huff will be at Breen-Philips Hall this Sunday and at a south quad hall next week to discuss in­surance. Next semester they plan to cover every dorm according to Johnson. 
Alcohol guidelines 

Alcohol guidelines were also extablished by the group as well as every individual hall. The plans have not yet been officially published but the package coin­cides with the University policies .. 
Johnson said,"We're considering the best way of 
WE'RE HAVING A SALE!!! 
THIS FRIDAY. SATURDAY 
AND SUNDAY SO COP YOUR RECORDS BEFORE YOU GO HOME 
AND SAVE YOURSELF SOME $$BUCKS$$! 
•~10% OFF LEATHER, JEWELRY, CLOTHING 
.s.so OFF 3.99 & 4.99 LP'S 
.s.so OFF TAPES & CASSETTES 
WE'RE NOW OPEN : Mon-Fri 10 -9 
Sat 10­Sun12 RECORDS  8 6  
255-0266 9198 COLLEGE SQUARE  

(Across from Town and Country) 
presenting it to the students but it is already completely developed. 
The selection of Interhall All­Star Teams and scheduled games during An Tostal weekend wwas an additional accomplishment of the HPC. 
"We just want to recognize the football program and arouse en­thusiasm in it," stated Johnson. "Similar plans for interhall hockey are being considered," offered the chairman. 
A series of match-up meetings are being arranged between various student leaders and (their administrative counterparts. These meetings involve as examples, the Judicial Board Charimen with Dean Roemer; social commissioners with student activities department; and sports commissioners with the interhall office. 
Yet the HPC is not designed to be a social organization. As Johnson puts it, "We encourage the halls to initiate their own activities. If they fail in the task, we will be forced to step in but so far it hasn't hap­pened and hopefully it never will." 

Senator ]avits to speak Monday 
by Gregg Bangs Senior Starr Reporter 

Jacob K. Javits, senior U.S. Senator from New York will give a lecture in the Hayes-Healy Center, Monday Dec. 8, at 1 p.m. 
Javits, who was Invited to speak by the Business School, is in his fourth senate term and twenty­eighth conse~utive year in elec~ed office. He 1s currently the semor Republican on the Committee on Labor and Public Welfare, the Joint Economic Committee and the Select Committee on Small Business. He also serves on the Senate Foreign Relations Com­mittee and the Committee on 
Government Operations. 
In recent years, Javits has 
become an outspoken critic on U.S. 
defense policies. He was the first 
member of Congress to propose legislation which would return to the Congress control of the com­mitment of U.S. armed forces to hostilities in the absence of a formal declaration of war. In an effort to assert responsibility equal to that of the President in regards to policy on war, he authored the War Powers Act. This was passed into law in 1973 as the War Powers Resolution over Presidential veto. 
In addition, Javits is known for legislative accomplishments in fields as diverse as health, civil rights, small business, labor, fiscal policy, the arts and humanities, and foreign economic policy. 
He started his career as an elected political official in 1946 when he became the first Republican since 1923 to be elected to the House of Representatives from the traditionally Democratic 21st District of New York City. In 1954, he became Attorney General of New York~ State a position he would hold for two years before running successfully for the Senate against then New York City mayor, Robert Wagner. Since then, he has turned back the challenges of James Donovan, Paul O'Dwyer and Ramsey Clark. His largest margin of victory was 1,119,077 votes over O'Dwyer in 1968. 
Javits has acquired a reputation for not only being an active sen a tor, but being one of the best vote-getters ever in New York State. Part of the reasons for his success is Javits' political make­up. He is a Republican, which caters to the upper New York State vote, as well as big business. However, he is also a Jewish Liberal which makes him im­mensely popular in New York City. 


6 the observer Friday, December 5, 1975 
Halls still handle cases 
University ]-Board system reorganized 
by Thomas J. Conaty the University. be presented to illustrate how auu understanding in Judicial board goat 1s to keep incidents from even Staff Reporter "The need for strong and why situations will be handled. matters, and is very agreeable to reaching the aUniversity Judicial The University Judicial Board organized hall judicial boards is Chairmans will be appointed. the way the J-board is set up at the board. Ideas have been re-shaped has been reorganized recently but essential for most rule infractions Dean Roemer will be present at present," says Lonsberg. and re-structured to allow the most disciplinary problems will be can be settled within the halls," both meetings. The University Judicial Board University Judicial Board to be handled in the hall, according to stated Lonsberg. When a case cannot be settled will constantly aid hall judicial concerned solely with the students 
John Lonsberg, Judicial coor­dinator. 
Last spring the need for im­oroved University and hall judicial boards was recognized. The SLC and the rules committee has recently appointed new members to the judicial board including six students, six mem­bers of the administration and six members of the faculty. 
Lonsberg says that the University Judicial Board has set rules and guidelines that hopefully will be accepted by the halls and 
Judicial board members will meet Monday,Dec. 8th. This will enable members to become better acquainted and to discuss in detail the objectives and obligations of the board. Questions and answers will be welcomed. 
A similar meeting for hall judicial board members is scheduled for Wednesday, Dec. 10. This meeting will also enable members to learn the purposes of the board. 
At both meetings a trial case will 

ND-SMC Women's Caucus 
within the hall, the University Judicial Board selects three representatives from the students, 
administration members and the faculty members that were ap­pointed. These representatives are in charge of the case and decideitsoutcome. Iftheyappeal, 
a University Appeals Committee, consisting of three members, will 
"Dean Roemer has been very 
review  the  appeal.  University  
regulations  are  effective  in  all  
cases.  

organizing 

stand for Mock Democratic Convention 
by Shawn Scannell Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Women's Caucus is beginning work to organize their stand for the Mock Democratic Convention slated for next March at Notre Dame. In the works is a series of mini-seminars designed to inform the caucus members about areas of concern important for con­sideration by the Convention's platform committee. 
The first of these meetings will be held next Wednesday, Dec. 10, in the Board Room 016) in LeMans Hall. Paula Auburn, president of the South Bend National Organization of Women r lNOWl, will speak on ideas con­r cerning the purpose, function and 
r 
~ 
r 
nature of the National Women's Political Caucus (NWPCl. 
Ellen Minter, a senior at St. Mary's, outlined the purpose of the caucus. What we're trying to do is set forth a list of issues and con­cerns which the SMC women's caucus feels should be paid proper attention at the Mock Convention. We hope these issues will become part of the political platform that will be constructed there," she said. 
The caucus is inviting delegates from Notre Dame and St. Mary's both male and female, to attend the meetings and to participate in the caucus. "The topics of the meetings relate to the concerns of the NWPC," Minter added. "We plan to cover the issues of abortion, family planning, specific equal 


Senior Trip plans revealed 

treatment, housing, and 

. education." Mark Frieden, the Mock Con­vention Press Secretary said the sessions will continue through the monthofJanuary. "At that time," he said, "the SMC WPC will present a list of recommended issues based on the results of the meetings." 
Minter added that once these people have been contacted the caucus will make vigorous effort to insure possible adoption of the views in the platform at the Convention. 
Anyone interested in getting involved with the WPC can call either Minter at 5196 or Grace Restido at 4148. 

boards in all matters. The overall best interests. I e e e e • • e • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
: TIMM PARTY STORE •: 
• OPEN : MON -SAT 9am -11 pm • 
• SUNDAy 12noon -11 pm •. 
e ­
• COLD BEER WINE LIQUOR • 
• ' ' ' • 
• GORMET FOODS • : 3114 S. 11 St. NILES, MICHIGAN : 
: "BIGGEST LITTLE : 
•••~~qll R ft!J~lll~AN~'···· 
SUNDAY MASSES Main Church · 5:15 p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:30a.m. Sun. Fr. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. ;10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. David T. Tyson, C.S.C. :12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. Bill Todley, C.S.C. 
There will be Evensong and a Christman Concert at 
4:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. 
·******************************* 
Special Holy Day Mass for the Feast of the lm­
maculat Conception on Onday, December 8th at 5:00 
p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. Fr. HOMAS McNally, C.S.C., celebrant. Music provided by the Chapel Choir 

When someone drinks too much and then drives, it's the silence that kills. Your silence. 
It kills your friends, your 


relatives, and people you don't even know. But they're all people you could save. 
If you knew what to say. maybe you'd be less quiet. Maybe fewer people would die. 
What you should say is, ''I'll drive you home." Or, "Let me call a cab." Or, "Sleep on my couch tonight." 

Don't hesitate because vour friend may have been drinking only beer. Beer and wine can be just as intoxicating as mixed drinks. 
And don't think that black coffee will make him sober. Hlack coffee never made anyone sober. Maybe it would keep him awake long enough to have an accident. But that's about all. 
The best way to prevent a drunk from becoming a dead drunk is to stop him from driving. 
Speak up. Don't let silence 
~Jii.uN"K oR',vi·n:IJEI~ ~----~ ~ 
I BOX 2:3~5 . I l HOCK\ ILLI· .. I.IAHYI.AND 201152 l 
I I don't want In n•main sill'nl. I 1 Tell me what dsr I can do. 1 
I I 
I ~I\' naml' is_ --1 I :\ddn•ss-I I l'it\' · Stall'_ /.•p-I 
L~---------------~ 
FRIENDS DON'T LO FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK. 
B 
' I 
-~i 
'o~ 
CS UfoJI'.o.KDIFNrOF lliAN!tl'llfllAIM••Mil<NW llll.lttW...~ IR»~k.'WUYoi.IJNifflSTl!AtlON 

S.G. DISCOUNT FLIGHTS 
REG. PRICE OUR PRICE DATE 
BALTIMORE 136 94.73 12-20 
BUFFALO 126 95.73 12-21 
HARTFORD 144 116.10 12~20 
LOS ANGELES 312 203.73 12-21 
NEWARK 138 108.73 12-20,21 
NEW YORK 138 108.73 12-20,21 
PITTSBURGH 88 75.73 12-20 
D.C. 120 97.73 12-20,21 


Friday, December 5, 1975 
the observer

Other projects discussed 
InPIRG publishes new consumer handbook 
by Pat Cuneo 
Staff Reporter 
The Indiana Public Interest 
Research Group at Notre Dame 
and St. Mary's <INPIRG) has 
published a consumer handbook 
and an up-to-date newsletter which 
will be distributed to the campuses 
next week. 
INPIRG met recently to finalize the distribution and report several of their state and local research projects. 
Representative Dave Carlyle said thetopics covered in the consumer survey include off-campus housing 
(apartments l. grocery stores, record stores, utility companies, bank checking services, etc. 
Approximately 3,000 copies of the survey have been published as an aid to the students, according to Carlyle. 
A state-wide finance center 
study is also being covered by 
INPIRG. Several finance 
companies in the state have 
charged up to 20 per cent interest 
rates on loans to low-income 
groups and INPIRG hopes to 
uncover the offenders through 
court li tiga lion. 
lnPIRG member Tom Martiny said that a sample loan will bet taken out by the research group so they can experience the com­panies· procedures. 
Along the same line, members are investigating the Educational Testing Service <ETS> which compiles the answers for SAT, LSAT and similar testing programs. 
Martiny pointed out that 30 to 60 point acceptt>d · esling margin will h<• Pxamined to ascertain its validity. This means to say that a stud('nt achieving a score of 510 on a sec·tion of th<• test will not be re­c•valuat<>d th<· following year if he achieves a score of 480 or 540 on sanw test. 
Martiny explained, "to benefit coll<•ge, graduate and high school students, we want to find out how the testing programs can claim a specified margin of performance when the students' academic future is at stake." 
Factory-owner 
surrounded by life work: donuts 
CHICAGO <AP> Ray Adams says he wasn't born with a silver spoon in his mouth, it was a donut. 
"My whole life has been do­nuts," says the 300-pound pro­duction manager of a factory that turns out 4 million clunkers a week. 
"When I was eight years old I was washing and greasing pans in my grandfather's small bakery in Jacksonville <Fla.)," he recalls. "By the time I was 16 I had learned the business and was turning out 200 dozen handmade donuts a day. 
"It was beyond my wildest dreams that when I was 42 I would have a job like I've got now <with Buttermaid>, sur­rounded by a mile of conveyor belts carrying cooling donuts for packaging. One machine alone pumps out 190 donuts per minute. 
Sauer Broten Served ... (This weekend -no cover
Hans Haus 
charge with sludenll.D.) 
2803 South Michigan Street-Phone 291-552 HAPPY HOUR Mon.-Fri. 4:00-7:00 LADIES' NIGHT Tues. 8:00-10·00
German Foqd Our Specialty 
Created with Old World Atmosphere. Specializing MEN'S NIGHT Thurs. 8:00.:10:.00 in German and American Foods. 
EVERY MONDAY·REDUCED PRICES ON BEER AND BAR DRINKS 
In order to raise funds for the Schmeel's work will be con­Bloomington chapter of lnPIRG, centrated on the current projects the body is sponsoring a concert by at Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Harry Chapin sometime in I.U.S.B. campuses. February. Two environmental projects are 
"The Bloomington organization also presently underway. <Indiana University) is presently A newspaper recycling project in financial crisis," cited Martiny. li:!S bt:en devised and im­He added that next week a meeting plementation is scheduled for will be held at I.U. to dtdetermine second semester. whether or not the organization The other wider scope project is will remain in existence. an environmental education 
At the Notre Dame campus, seminar for grade school teachers InPIRG recently hired a full-time in South Bend . research coordinator as a With the assistance of Jack professional staff person for South Schnell, a former state superin­Bend, Steve Schmeel. tendent of Indiana and executive 
Mardi Gras raffle tickets now being sent to halls 
by Ken Bradford Copy Editor 

Raffle tickets are now being distributed in Notre Dame residence halls in preparation for the 1976 Mardi Gras. 
Tickets will be distributed in dormitories at St. Mary's sometime before the Christmas break, according to ticket chair­man Peggy Foran. Off-campus students, staff members and ad­ministrators may pick up ticket books from Foran or Mardi Gras chairman Harry Spellman. 
Mardi Gras will open Jan. 30 in Stepan Center and will last until the raffle on Feb. 8. The grand prize for the drawing will be a 1976 Nova purchased by the committee from Gates Chevrolet in South Benrl. Persons who sell a book of raffle tickets will be eligible in a :-;tudent drawing to win a color t l'ievision. 
I<:ach Mardi Gras raffle book contain:-; ten tickets, which sell for one dollar each. Students will receive two dollars back for each hook of I ickets they sell. 
Each residence hall is also assigned a quota of ninety books for every hundred residents. Halls which meet their quotas will receive five dollars back from each book sold. The money returned to the halls may be used for any hall activity, Spellman said. 
The sale of one book also entitles the seller to a free Mardi Gras button which admits the person to Mardi Gras all week without an admission fee. 
Proceeds from Mardi Gras are donated to the Notre Dame Charities, which include the Hunger Coalition, Sr. Maritia's Day School, Boys' Town and other 
One-eyed player fights barring from competition 
ATHENS, Ohio <AP)-An 18­

eyes-that would be a dream­
year-old University of Ohio 
but I know I can compete with
freshman has decided to go to 
anyone," said the honor student 
court to win his battle aganst 
from Fairborn, Ohio.
university officials who say he cannot play basketball because "I was shocked. The team 
he has only one eye. physician told me he would 
Mike Borden says he's given have a guilty conscience if I his approval to begin legal pro­blinded. I told them I ceedings which could eventual­
a waiver." ly put him back on the school's junior varsity team where he had found a spot until his dis­ability was discovered. "I'm going to fight this thing. I'm not handicapped, I don't now appearing in the know what it is like to have two 
FREESTYLE 
charity organizations. 
Mardi Gras will have a bicen­tennial theme this year. Booth designers may choose any period of American history as a basis for their decorations, according to Foran. "They can work with the theme as loosely and creatively as they like," she said. 
Residence halls and campus clubs may erect booths and operate various card games, roulette wheels and other games of chance. Betting is done with Mardi Gras play money which can be exchanged for cash. 
Organizations wishing to operate Mardi Gras games must submit booth designs and floor plans to the Mardi Gras committee before Christmas, Spellman said. The committee supplies wood and building materials, but each organization must build its own booth. Also, a 100 dollar deposit, a portionof which will be refunded, must be placed by each organization, he added. 
A meeting for all persons working on Mardi Gras booths will be held in Stepan Center on Jan. 16. Actual work will begin Jan. 17. 
Spellman said he is expecting bigger crowds this year due to an improvement in the national economy. He added that he hopes more South Bend residents will visit Mardi Gras this year. He cited Mardi Gras as an opportunity for improved interaction between the South Bend community and Notre Dame. 
"It's a real big social event," Spellman said, "and everyone is going to have a good time." 
"It's more than just a social director of the National Alliance youth and providing teachers with for Environmental Education, a resource material, according to day of lectures and discussions has InPIRG representatives. been planned. The goal is to The meeting is tentatively determine the importance of in-planned for the last Saturday in 
activity,  though,"  Foran  said.  
"Mardi cause."  Gras  is  also  a  worthy  

stilling environmental values into February. 
----~~~~--------------, 
aJ~r Qinlnnial 

lfancukt fJiuu.at 
:_h 

"Enjoy n snack or dinner" 
~:.-·.~:;:::::·:::::·:·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ... 
:;:: · JS V<Jrieties of Pancakes ::: }nllc kr'n Steak Sandwichec; ::: (Friday Nites: Perch Dinners ( 
:~:;:;:;::::=:·:·:::::.:·:·:·:·:~·:·::::.::=::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;.;.;.;:::is! 
Yo1n lio·.t

U.S. 31 (Oix1ew<tyl North (Across from Hohday Inn) Bob Edwa'rds, ND '50. 

CHICAGO 715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE • ZIP: 60611 • TEL: (312) 944-7506 
Please add sales tax where applicable American Express • BankAmer/card Copyright© T. & Co. 
P rleans 
George Graves
Mail Pouch Hoom 
PIZZAS, SNACKS SERVED ANYTIME 

• So11th Bend's Finest S.nquet Rooms 
The Alpine & S.verien Rooms Ope{l 10:3~ •.m.:t.o Jo;ao.JJ.m.. ,.....~l.osed,Sundavs and Holidays 

---~­
...... 
-----'­


The semester has been long, but with Christmas in the offing, wasn't L.!_t worth it? (Photo by Tom Lose) 
Ford leaves Peking 
E-78 14 $32.07 
8 

F-78 $33.53
Chinese release MIA names 1 14 ~_;8 
PEKING (AP) -China, in an apparent good will gesture aimed at filling an information gap. gave President Ford word Thursday that seven U.S. serv­icemen listed as missing in ac­tion during or before the Viet­nam war were dead. 
The news, which will end a long wait for seven American families, came as Ford's four­day China summit talks wound up and he prepared to leave for Indonesia. 
No other major announce­
r 
ments or specific agreements
r were made. 
r Secretary of State Henry A. 
~ Kissinger said that Vice Pre­
r mier Teng Hsiao-ping had in· 
r formed Ford that the Chinese 
~ have the bodies of two of the Americans and were able to supply information about what happened to the five others. 

If you're good enough, you can be a Navy Nuclear Officer. 
The Navy needs some very special college graduates who aren't afraid to find out how good they really are. Who w111 consider our extensive and demanding training pro­gram, the most exciting chal­lenge of their lives. A challenge that leads to an exciting future as a Naval Ofticer aboard a nuclear-powered surface ship or submarine. 
Find out more from your local recruiter, or call toll-free 
800-841-8000. 
Be Someone Special 
in the Navy. 
Lt. E. M. Schaefer Military Science Building 
283-6442 
In toasting his Chinese hosts at a final state banquet, Ford said the two nations were in agreement in "fundamental op­position to the efforts of others to impose hegemony in any part of the world." 
Concern about Soviet military might and intentions is recog­






a 1elhaek 
Dineen elected academy leader 
Clarence M. Dineen, chairman of the Department of Biology at St. Mary's has been named president­elect of the Indiana Academy of Science for 1976. Dineen currently serves as director of public relations for the 88 year old in­stitution. Headquartered in In­dianapolis, the academy is com­posed of scientists from colleges and universities throughout the state. 
Dineen, an aquatic ecologist, has long been interested in the problems of water conservation in the Michiana area. In recent years he has conducted research on the St. Joseph River for the academy, and has been involved in an en­vironmental study of the river for Michiana Watershed. 
A member of the St. Mary's faculty since 1956, Dineen recieved his M.S. and Ph.D. in zoology from the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis. 

nized as the glue that keeps the Chinese-American relationship
together. In responding to Ford's toast,

Teng was remarkably bland, failing even to bring up again Chinese fears about Ford's 
questviet for detente with the So-
Union. 

REALISTIC® HAS A DEAL FOR YOU! 
SAVE 
S4675 
Components Sold Separately ... 245.75 

·sPt(:tA:l WHKEND-ROOM RATES FOR 
NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS $695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just 
mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
except home football game weekends. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 
1 DICK'S ~·. 
I 
I 
I 
G-78 

A-78 13 $28.44 
I I J-60 C-78 13 $29.92 F -78 C-78 14 $30.61
I 
G-78 
I 
G-78 14 $34-97 
1 
L-78 
PLUS FEDERAL TAX 
I 
MOUNTING FREE AND FREE RE­MOUNTING IN SPRING 
I FREE 3 MONTH TOWING THRU 
• STANDARD OIL COMPANY ----------------­
Don't miss this great starter stereo system' You get our STA-15 AM-FM stereo receiver. Nova-1 0 headphones. Realistic LAB 12-C changer with base and $12.95 value magnetic cartridge and two Solo-1 walnut veneer bookshelf speaker systems. What a deal for $199' There's only one place you 
can find it Radio Shack. 

I 
I 
I 
I 
14 $37.91 
I 
15 $30.09 
I 
15 $33.53 15 $35.10 
1 4 
~ ::::
5 
15 $40.82 


by Julie Hartley Starr Ht>porter 
Mark Arminio is one of those fighting 'optimists' of Notr£Dame. 
As station manager of WSND radio, he has been working to eliminate the misconceptions people in the Notre Dame com­munity have about the station. On · the air with WSND since his freshman year, Arminio has already given momentum to station activities since assuming his new responsibilities as station manager last April. 
Asked to estimate the size of the WSND listening audience, Arminio responds, "Your guess is as good as mine. We have heard that our audience is only five per cent of the Notre Dame community. Other sources say about 45 per cent. The station is not getting the proper feedback from the community which it serves." 
The new station manager identifies and explains the par­ticular dirriculty WSND faces. "There are so many different audiences at Notre Dame that it is extremely difficult to satisfy all tastes with one radio station," he states. "Still, we've been trying to incorporate as many types of music as possible into our present format and it's not working. At present it all depends on the in­dividual D .J. This is why the whole station sound varies from hour to hour as different programmers come on and go off the air." 
He would like to see certain 
programmers grouped together 
during certain time slots to avoid 
this problem. He proposes that, 
"the 'mellow sounds' go on in the 
morning from 7 a.m. untilll a.m., 
the top-forty and other request 
music from noon until 6:30 p.m., 
and the 'progressive rock' from 7 
p.m. until midnight." The dif­ficulty in establishing this type of rigid format is that the people who work at WSND also go to school," Arminio says. "Certain persons will inevitably be unable to be at the station at certain times and since programmers are not always available to pre-program the music, the present format is almost necessary to continue diversified programming." 
Arminio cites another station difficulty as what he terms "good radio vs. good music." Given discrepencies in individual tastes, the question of who to satisfy is a tough policy decision. He gives examples of the situation saying, "Suppose a member of the listening audience wants to hear cuts from albums that cater specifically to the die-hard Led Zeppelin fan. Such cuts are usually long and often obscure to the general audience who would prefer to hear, let's say, 'Stairway to Heaven'. Programming to appeal to the largest audience is requisite in good radio," he ob­
served. 

Another aspect WSND must deal with is competition with area radio stations. Arminio criticizes the programming of local stations. 
"The biggest rock station in this area is lousy compared to what other stations in other areas have to offer. But if that is what people want to hear we'll put it on," he confesses. 
Arminio encourages all listeners to let the station know what type of music they want to hear. He wxplains, "Every request which is phoned into the station is recorded as to the name of the record, the artist, time of day requested, and whether or not the station had the time or the record available to get it on the air. Every two weeks the results are compiled and then the process is repeated and will continue to be repeated until a pattern is discovered on which to base a new format." The manager states the station's position saying, "We won't change for the sake of change. We want to do this right." 
In a final statement on con­ditions which complicate matters for WSND, Arminio levels sharp criticism at the University itself. "The station suffers because we don't have a ready acceptance from the University and the University knows it." 
(Continued on Page 18) 
Always Unlimited Free Parkin~ 
1t•',Iv.4t! ~~~ a,1~1 t~! 11 1 Mile North of NOTRE DAME on U.S. 31 North Just South of NORTH VILLAGE MALL • (219) 277-1522 
I
NOW! 
Forlbur Pleasure..• 

t-r~aay, uecem-r ), 1975 the observer 
--------------~~~~~~~--~ 
Halls locked on 22nd 
Security increased for break 
by Chris Hopkins the walks. Fr. Tom Tallarida, Director of 
Staff Reporter Pears stated, "Last year's Off Campus Housing, suggests that 
Campus security will be tigh­security worked well with the off campus residents should tened over Christmas vacation, strict enforcement. The security contact the student Government according to Director of Security will be no better than the for informaton concerning storing Arthur Pears. All 22 resident halls cooperation we will recieve from their valuables with some of t .. ­will be securely locked with chains the students." professors. on all double doors on Monday, Dec. 22. 
No students will be permitted in the dorms over the break. Only resident rectors and assistant rectors will be allowed to stay in the dorms. 
Pears urges rectors to make no exceptions to the rule of no students in the halls. As Pears explains, "Even if there is just one student in the hall permitted to stay, this will jeopardize the security of the entire hall with his going in and out." 
Security officers will be in each dorm 24 hours a day. These of­ficers will check and secure all doors at least once every eight 


THE NAZZ PRESENTS
hours. 
Workers will be in the hall over break to make general repairs. These workers will be requested to lock themselves in the hall to 

CARO AND RICHIE 
prevent any possible burglars from sneaking into the halls. Pears offered some suggestions for hall residents, "The students 

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 
should take home any items that are easily packed, such things as calculators and radios." 
Students are urged not to return to campus before the dorms are unlocked. The date for the dorms to be unlocked is not final as of now. Final details will l:>e explained in a bulletin to be issued by Dean Roemer shortly. 
All students, on or off campus, 

DEC 6 AND 7 FROM lOpm to lam. ADMISSION 50cents 
NOW SHOWING BACK BY POPULAR HEQUEST 

NOT SINCE lOVE ~Tl~Y.M 
PG 'THE 

OTHER SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN' 
TRUE STORY! FRIDAY AT 6:45-9:00P.M. 

COMING FRI.-"THE OTHER SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN~' 
•tarring joan boez • joe cocker .,..,J'iil arlo guthrie • richie havens • jimi hendrix "-'UW~ 
-AND GIGANTIC ROCK CAST! ­

AT EXACTLY MIDNITE REDUCED PRICE! 

t" HOUSE SPECIALTY
hl.tle PRIME RIB 
______!h=u~b~~~~~~~. I top WED. ' THUR., SPEClll 


ANTHROPOLOGY • BUSINESS & ECONOMICS e CLASSICAL STUDIES • ENGLISH & ITALIAN LIT. e FINE ARTS e HISTORY • ITALIAN e PHILOSOPHY • POLITICAL SCIENCE e PSYCHOLOGY e THEATRE • THEOLOGY 
who will be leaving cars over the break are urged to park their cars in the D-1 parking lot directly east of the east gate guard house. The only exception being that these cars must have decals that the car is registered with security_ 
This parking lot will be locked, according to Pears. The lot will be patrolled by an officer on foot at least once each hour for 24 hours a day. 
Another area of security in­volves students who own bicycles. Students shoud use the Security's winter storage policy to insure the safety of their bikes. Bikes will be stored in the stadium for the winter period. This policy involves no charge · the bike is registered and a $1.00 fee if it is not. The policy covers all four years and the bikes are completely insured. Bike storage begins today and again on Dec. 11, 12, and 15 at Gate 14 of the Stadium. The hours of storing are from 1-4:30 p.m. 
Students with bicycles are urged not to lock them to cables along the campus sidewalks. This is not only for security reasons. It is also to prevent the repeat of last year's incidents involving bikes being damaged by snow plows clearing 


• 13th Year -275 Students 
• Campus villa overlooks Rome 
MANY STATE SCHOLARSHIPS TRANSFER 
APPLICATIONS ACCEPTED NOW FOR '76 SPRING SEMESTER & 1976-77 ACADEMIC YEAR 
---------------~--­
FOR INFORMATION MAIL TO: LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO ROME CENTER OFFICE, 8525 N. SHERIDAN RD., CHICAGO, ILL. 60626 
Name School 
Address 

City State Zip 


DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
In the spirit of Christmas, the Observer presents the following gifts to some of its friends and acquaintances: 
To Gerald Ford: A gag for Betty and a Chastity belt for Susan. To Ronald Reagan: A new supply of Grecian Formula 16. 
To Fr. Hesburgh: The prq>erties of a glorified body so he can be in two places at once. Maybe one of them will oc­casionally be Notre Dame. 
To Fr. Burtchaell: What he has always wanted; first crack at the next vacancy in the Godhead. 
To Bro. Just: Platform shoes and Fr. Burtchaell's polite way of telling reporters where to J(o. 
To Dean Roemer: A life-time supply of "rubberized" bedsheets and an art gallery showing of his candid photos of the stripper, the panty-raiders, and Dillon Hall's decorations. 
To Dr. Duggan: A try-out with the Dancing Irish 
To Fr. Tallarlda: Better luck next year in the Turkey contest. 
To Bro. Gorcb (manager of LaFor­tune): Renovation of LaFortune into a Gothic Cathedral. 
To Ed Byrne: One of those blank books from the Bookstore. It records his ac­complishments. 
To Joan McDermott, St. Mary's SBP: A podium to take a stand on. 
To Tom Fitzgerald: Two thousand students willing to kick in $25 a head for a non-existent co-op. 
To the SLC: Half of Ed Byrne's 
present. 

To St. Mary's Student Affairs staff and Security: An electronic eye to be in­stalled in each dorm room to guaranteethat parietals are not "abused." 
To the Academic Councll: Individual copies of "100 of the World's Best Practical Jokes" for each member-so their next meeting will be as fun-filled as their last. 
To Laurence Aronson: Two thousand dollars worth of ham and a set of new meat-cleavers. 
To the Scholastic: A reason for their existence. 
To Jerome Heavens: A handle for the football. 
To the Juggler: An English tran­slation. To WSND: Who? 
To ourselves: Something to write about and someone to write it. 
To the students: The day after Thanksgiving. 
To the University: The Julian Calendar. 
It puts Christmas in the middle of January so we can have two week-long breaks and 75 class days between Labor Day and Christmas. It is also 400 years out of date which makes it perfect for this 
place. 

Also to the University: The ultimate wisdom about NotreDame: "This whole damn place is run like it's somebody'soobby." 
soaAE SOUP, OR aSE!" lRY SAYING," I PIDMISE lb NO LONGER BEHAVE -INDULGENT SLOB-P!.EASE fM{ I HAVE s:>ME ~P, SIR?"!' 
u..........-.........,.;,jg~ 



Christmas Every Day 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijoe corpora 
Thanksgiving is over. It's December. The campus is taking on a Christmas atmosphere -lights in campus windows, a Christmas tree here and there. Besdies finals, people are also talking about Christmas. 
Christmas is a time which brings out the best in people. All over the world the best comes out. It is a time of peace and JOY and love. Christmas is a time of community more so than during any other time of the year. _ 
Here at Notre Dame and St. Mary's we have Christmas every day. The people here are whwhat really make Notre Dame the unique and special place that it is. I think that you can go the world over and you won't find as many good people concentrated in one area such as you find at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
What makes Notre Dame so much different from all the rest? I think that it is a strange combination of the administrators, faculty, staff and us --the student body. I have not had the chance to visit tons of other colleges and universities, but I have visited some and know people who go to many more. At the ones I visited I could not detect any real soirit. any real sense of christian community, 
There may be other schools which are better academically and intellectually than we are; there may even be some with better sports. But I don't think there are any schools with a better spirit, a better community than exists here. 
Two weekends ago Notre Dame hosted the National Conference on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. I was involved with it and also put up seven of the participants in Holy Cross Hall. Most were either the Student Body President or Vice President of their schools. In talking with them I realized ever more how great this place is. They were all from large, impersonnal, secular cam­puses. All their student governments are presently involved in or have been involved in taking the president of their respective to court for something. 1t seems to be such a cold, heartless at­mosphere. I couldn't detect the sightest hint of warmth or com­passion in these schools. 
When I was at the University of Pittsburgh for the game., I wanted to try an experiment. I was in the Cathedral of Learning <the Dome Building of Pitt) and I asked seven people where the Chancellor's office was. No ONE KNEW. They said they'd never seen him. Here at Notre Dame Father Hesburgh, C.S.C. although he travels alot is extremely accessible when he is here. If you are walking by the Administration Building in the middle of the night and see a light flickering on the third fooor, that's him. Many times I have called or dropped by at 3:00a.m. to see Father Hesburgh about something. 
Our halls are unique. The students make them great. Almost nowhere else are the residents of a dorm so proud of the dorm they live in as here. Friendships begin here in the dorms that last forever. When I was at Purdue for the game, I remember being in a room where people did not even know who lived next door to them.lt is like living in an apartment building. Everyone keeps their door locked. It is a real cold atmosphere. It is my experience that this is not at all true here. Sections are closely united, as are floors, making the darm at times one big family. 
~~f~, 
I could go on and on. But I say that 'Christmas occurs everyday at Notre Dame, because it is really a special place. The best in people is brought out daily. It is a place of peace and joy and love and Christian communityjdaily. We don't have to wait til December for this. Ithappens all the time. 
My thanks to all of you who make Norre Dame what it is. Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. 
~&q.~~~klc~klc~~-...~-...· 
*~d.QI2~~ver
Founded November 3, 1966 

The Observer is published by the students of the University  EDITORIAL BOARD  
of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College.  It does not necessarily  Terry Keeney  Ed itor·in-chief  
reflect the policies of either institution.  The news is reported  AI Rutherford  Managing Editor  
as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials retpresent  Jim Eder  Executive Editor  
the  opinion  of  a  majority of the  Editorilll  Board.  Com·  Pat Hanifin  Ed itorial Editor  
mentaries  are  the  views of  individulll editors.  Opinions,  Ken Girouard  News Editor  
cartoons  and  regular  columns  express  the  views of their  Bob Mader  Campus Editor  
authors.  Column space is available to all members of the  Mary Janca  St. Mary's Editor  
community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free  Ken Bradford  Copy Editor  
expression of varying opinions on campus.  Val Zurblis  Wire Editor  
Tom O'Neil  Features Editor  
Editorials: 283-1715  News: 283-8661  Business: 283-7471  Bill Brink  Sports Editor  
Business Manager Advertising Manager  Tom Modglin Tom Whelan  Chris Smith Dan Sanchez  Photo Editor Senior Night Editor  

Friday, December 5, 1975 




You Shouldn't Have 
P.O. Box Q 
Reps Reply 
Dt'ar Editor: 
We, the undersigned student representatives to the Academic Council and members of the Academic Commission, feel we owe the student body an account of the proceedings during Wed­nesday's Academic Council meeting regarding next year's calendar. 
After two months of research and preparation, after drawing up a calendar acceptable to a majority of the students, we, as well as many fellow students, 
feel our feelings have been disregarded. 
Our proposals for new guidelines were enhanced by strong student support. Ninety-two percent of those students surveyed favored the midsemester break, which we obtained, but we ourselves, and most of the student body, never expected a shortened Thanksgiving break. The thought of classes on that Friday is so outrageous that it never occurred to us; neither did it appear on any of the sample choices, but ap­parently the thought appealed to the faculty and administrators on the Council. 
The council devoted only minor attention to Proposal C, the decisive choice of the 300 students surveyed. Since the calendar met all the requirements delineated by the University guidelines, and since it was the obvious choice of nearly 50 per cent of those un­dergraduates surveyed, then why wasn't it given more serious consideration? 
We would therefore like to take this opportunity to say that we, as your student representatives, are aware of these shortcomings and are prepared to do everything in our power to effect a change. We urge you to inform your parents of this flagrant disregard of student representation, and to encourage their writing of J?ro-Thanksgiving break letters, addressed to 
AdmiJ'llstrauon 
Furthermore, we urge you to attend this afternoon's student gathering for strong students support is our best chance for invoking any change in next year's proposed calendar. 
Michael Gassman 
John Brosious 
William Bula 
Leo Garonski 
Michael Orlando 

leaving 
l>t'ar Editor: 
Regarding the new improved calendar for the 1976-1977 academic year, all I have to say is that I am glad to be a member of the Class of '76. 
Mary Egan 

Congrats 
Ut'ar Editor: 
I would like to congratulate the 
Academic Council for coming up 
with the joke of the year. 
Seriously, a one-day break for 
Thanksgiving? I rolled on the floor 
with laughter until I found out that 
it actually is the planned calendar 
for next year. 
Almost everyone agrees that a 
mid-semester break is vital, but I 
do not believe that the students 
should have to give up 
Thanksgiving with their families to 
get a break in October. <Wouldn't 
it be better to have a long week~nd 
for the mid-semester break 
coupled with the usual 
Thanksgiving break?> 
Fr. Hesburgh reported that he 
received quite a few letters from 
parents who were upset that they had to pay the expense of two trips. This is absurd. It is not man­datory for the students to go home on every break. If there were two breaks, the students could choose to stay on campus for the mid­semester break and go home for the Thanksgiving break. Now, however, the Academic Council has prohibited students from going home on Thanksgiving, regardless nf whether or not they can afford it. 
It also is rumored that the Friday after Thanksgiving will be a mandatory test day in order to discourage students from cutting classes that day. If everyone had a test on Friday, the students will spend all day Thursday studying for them. Mandatory tests will simply turn Thanksgiving, a supposedly free day, into a study day. I don't think anyone wants that to happen. 
Finally, I call upon the Student Government to take another survey, containing one question: "Are you in favor of the proposed calendar for next year?" 
On behalf of all of my fellow students, I urge the Academic Council to reconsider the calendar topic. 
Jeffrye A. Withum Class of '79 


Childish Games 

Dear Editor; 
Being only a Freshman, I came to this University with the idea that it was an excellent school with high academic standards and a proud tradition behind it. Realizing these facts, I took for granted that it would be run by intelligent people. But un­fortunately I have had to change my opinion of the administration after observing a number of their actions over the first three months of my Notre Dame career. In particular the recent action in the formation of next year's calendar. Now I don't claim that I'm as scholarly as Fr. Burtch a ell or as world-renowned as Fr. Hesburgh, but there is one asset that I do have that these two obviously do not, that is, common sense. 
As I see it, the Administration is 
playing the same kind of childish 
games that hii,h school ad­
ministrators love to play. They 
pretend to let the students have a 
voice in the decision-making on 
school oolicies but in actualitv thev 
ignore whatever opinions the students voice. As evidence to this point I present the fact that the calendar chosen for the next school year was not even one of the six choices presented to and voted on by the student body! 
Ac­tually, I am quite surprised at Fr. ­esburgh 's stand because of a statement he made whil saying mass in Zahm Hall. He said that the greatest thing be could do with the students at N.D. was to celebrate mass with them. With this in mind, he should realize that the greatest thing we could do on Thanksgiving is to celebrate a mass with those whom we love and who deserve the most thanks, that is, our families. This will be ex­tremely hard to do if they're home and we're here at N.D. 
John Hutchens 


Machiavelli 
Returns 

Dear Editor: 
Thif school is finally putting its cards on the table and showing for whom it is established. Traditionally, a university has been for the education growth and development of its students. But Notre Dame, being in the forefront of education, has fulfilled this role by bringing about a revolution in education! No longer will the University be shackled to the needs of students! Students are now here for the needs of the UniversitY! 
Expecting students to come the 
Friday after Turkeyday really 
shows where the faculty and ad­
ministration heads are at. One day 
is fine for them, they live in town. 
they can go home and enjoy 
Thanksgiving. Students don't have 
that luxury. In effect, the faculty 
and administration gets a 
Thanksgiving break but not the 
students<But under our new 
philosophy of education, that fits 
right in). 
When the University proclaims 
its responsibility as being "In Loco 
Parentis", they are really serious 
about that concept. Even to the 
extent of kindly taking the 
responsibility out of the parents 
hands for saying "No, we can't 
afford to fly you home." Catholic 
educators have long insisted they 
cannot take parental 
responsibility. Itsheartening to 
see the University expose that as a 
cop-out, and seize the respon­sibility of the parents in their own Ed Byrne was absolutely righthands. when he said there is no other 
Last year, when our "extended" university that rationally expect~ Thanksgiving vacation turned into their students to attend class tht> two days and people accused Friday after Thanksgiving. I'm Burtchaell of being devious, I ashamed to tell my friends we dn disdained to think so. But it seems The student calendar plannedI am learning. This last move around outside group's activities,smacks of what is now Burt­the University taking parents'chaellian <formerly responsibility, and faculty and Machiavellian) maneuvering. 1do administration "happening" to get not wisn to infer Fr. Hesburgh is a better breaks than students-all front man for Fr. Burtchaell, but are truly educationally revolting I did check the name twice to see if <oops, revolutionary) in today's the article was not context of education. tyypographically errant. The next Sudents, hang on to your football move I would expect would be for tickets, they may be all you have Fr. Hesburgh or Burtchaell to left. persuade departments to give tests that Friday. John Hannon 
irish buII !!!!!!!!!!!!I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 

The Homecoming 
.-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ pauI starkey 
<Dedicated to the "simple" majority of the Academic Council who overlooked the will of the real majority -the members of the Notre Dame community.) 
Chorus: Take our play and please enjoy, And then your plan you may destroy. Scene 1: A humble house in Circle City, Indiana. 5 p.m., Thanksgiving Eve, 1976. FATHER, MOTHER, and LITI'LE GEORGE sit at the supper table. Mother: I feel so sad. Our son away for this special Thanksgiving Day. Father: Tis sad, it's true. Two hundred years our country marks. Such cause for cheers; and yet our son's away. Its sad. .L. George: Comes home my brother not, dear Dad? Father: No, little George, he'll here not be, but stays at the University. Mother: The cause for which he cannot come, to make a class, to me, seems dumb! 
Scenell: The University Dining Hall, C-D line, 6 p.m. that same eve. Enter students Jim and Paul. 
Jim: 0 sick! Another mealto try. Ifit be fish, I swear I'll die! Paul: Like you not the fish they fix? Jim: One fish a week is fair, but six?! Paul: Be fish or fowl, or even meat, it looks and tastes the same to eat. And for that. cause, I feel most sore: tomorrow's turk' will be pi's poor. Jim: But won't you take a break at home? Paul: I'm chained by tests. I cannot roam. 
Scene Ill: The University Club, 7 p.m. that same eve. Enter two OFFICIALS. 
Off. I: Ha! Ha! Two breaks and still we see the Calendar makes seventy! Off. 2: A number good and seems most fair, but do I not sense some despair? Off. I: From me, why no! I have no pain-­Off. 2: I mean not you, but they complain!!! Off. I: They? You mean the student dolts? We need to rein those frisky colts! Off. 2: But has there been no anxious wail? Off. 1: Parents? I haven't checked the mail. 
Scene IV: Near the Grotto on the University campus, later that same eve. Enter Paul <solo). 
Paul: How dark the clouds of night grow o'er; and dark my soul seems even more. That I might wish away this fate and take the test a later date: But rules are rules and rules do rule. A common sense does lack this School! <At this moment, the sky lightens. The dark clouds come together and form a giant turkey drumstick that points south toward Circle City.> 
But hey and hold! What follows now! 
A turkey leg! A sign? 0 wow!! Thunder rolls Voice: GO HOME KID! JUST BLOW IT OFF AND SEE YOUR FOLKS. I'LL SEE THE PROF. 
SceneV: A too-small double in a University dormitory, even later that same eve, about 11 p.m. Jim, stretched out on the bed, is reading a book and watching the cockroaches climb the wall, but not actually studying. Enter Paul, breathless. 
Paul: I'm taking off! Jim: Youheardthenews? Paul: No, What gives? Jim: You never lose!!! Your prof, I heard, just disappered; and cancelled is that test you feared. Paul: Well, I'll be--No! I guess I won't! 
EPILOGUE: Thanksgiving Day, the humble house in Circle City. The little family is seated at a festive table. A knock-knock comes at the door. 
Father: I think the door was knock-knocked on't. Now who would come to share our feast? He opens the door and is happily surprised to find Paul.. ..Mother, I THINK YOU'LL LIKE THIS BEAST! Mother and Uttle George shout for joy and run to the door. Mother: How be you here? 
Paul: God's in our ranks! Father: Let us sit and give our thanks! , .Curtain 
commentary!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
How the Grinchaell Stole Thanksgiving 
~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiio 'n e iI ~ 9irouard 
It occured once in Domeland To the populace there That a Provost named Grinchaeli Was mean as a bear. 
He hated Thanksgiving The feasting and all With a heart that was surely Three sizes too small. 
On a gold-tipped mountain In the center of town, The Grinchaell would perch With a distained frown As the Domers would party And dance with glee, He'd say, "I hate Thanksgiving And roasted turkey!" 
"I wonder what means of Deception to take I fouled them last year with an extended break; 
"But that wasn't good enough, What can I do now? To get them at last! Let me think how." 
So he sat and he thought 
And then it occured! 
"I'll steal Thanksgiving And rip off the bird!" 
"I'll sneak into town In tht' dead of the night And steal the turkey When its out of their sight." 
"U I steal the turkey 
They won't have their feast! And there won't be Thanksgiving! Oh, aren't I a beast?!" 
So the night before Turkey-day The Grinchaell slank into town And took the turkey and dressing When no one was around. 
He went back to the Dillon And started to smirk. Hut was he successful With his treacherous work? 
But the story's not ended We must wait and see If they'll steal back Thanksgiving And get the turkey! ! ! ! ! 


12 the observer Friday, December 5, 1975 
Letters to a Lonely G 
louer of urchins and all that 
Even a dear old priest like me, lover of urchins and all that, can recognize that the gleam in the eyes of a child at Christmas is sometimes neither holy nor beautiful, being nothing more or less than the twinkle of greed. The Santa Claus myth does a rotten thing to kids, turning some of them into grasping little gnomes who are the masterpieces of selfishness. The kids don't corrupt themselves, of course; it is the parents who corrupt the kids, using credit cards, charge accounts, Christmas bonuses, family savings, bank loans, home mortgages. grandfather's inssurance, and a house wife's virtue to keep alive the notion that there is a stout gentleman from the North Pole who gives stuff away free. 
I had a friend who once decided he would teach his little brood of moppets that Christmas. was a game of giving gifts, not receiving them. On Christmas morning, he explained to them , there would be a pile of gifts under the tree for each child. These gifts could be unwrapped in the traditional way; but they were not to be kept or taken off to the nursery. Instead, 
would drive the children to the poor 
neighborhoods where they could give away the toys and treasures to the street arabs they would meet there. Later, when the family returned home, each child would receive a gingerbread man as her own Christmas keepsake. 
The moppets were good-natured about the arrangement, although the littlest girl had difficulty in understanding why she could not keep the doll that Santa had left with her name on it. Fortunately, the doll was too big for her to be comfortable with, 
so it had not yet become a favorite. At 
noonday on the Nativity feast, the family 
rode in a station wagon stuffed with gifts to 
an unprosperous neighborhood, where 
they quickly found a long line of raggedy­
muffin slum kids (so it seemed> waiting to 
get into a theatre to see 101 Dalmations. 
As soon as the moppets started handing 
out dolls and drums to those sedate pat·­
rons of the cinema, those slum kids, having 
survived their moment or two of initial 
skepticism, were turned into a pushing, 
shoving mob. 
This was no gentle sharing of the blessings of wealth. Children were giving away a Christmas that they wanted to keep to other children who were passionatley eager to accept gifts; and in their excitement, the benificiaries became insistent enough to frighten the gift­bearers. The poorer children were not of the beggar class; they had a pride, a dignity, a decency and honor that should spare them from being looked down upon. 
1) Something Happened <Joseph Heller> 
2l Ragtime <E.L. Doctorow) 
3) The Ebony Tower (John Fowles) 
4l Humboldt's Gift <Saul Bellow) 
5) Dog Soldiers <Robert Stone) 
6)\\'ar Between The Tates (Alison Lurie) 
7l The Killer Angels <Michael Shaara 
B l :\ 1\lonth of Sundays (John Updike) 
9l Winter in the Blood <James Welch) 
10) My Petition For More Space (John Hersey> 
Ironically, some of the best works of fiction to appear this year surfaced on the New York Times' Best-Seller List. Perhaps the intellectuals are buying books these days or the ignorant plebians are making honest efforts to educate. themselves. Either way the change is refreshing. 
For Heller, Bellow, Fowles, Updike and Hersey, their appearance on lists of the year's best fiction is not new, but for the remaining five writers, their emrgence from literary obscurity has placed them in comfortable positions to do battle with our established literary institutions (such as Nabokov, whose Look at the Harlequins! was also a best-seller and a celebrated work of the year). But the most out-
reverend robert griffin 
Their parents had certainly seen to it that Christmas village. thoughtfulness of parents toward the those kids were provided with the The trouble with Santa Claus as a friends who grieved with them at the death traditional loot of Yuletide; but they symbol of the gift-giver is that he has no of their child. I think of Mark, Jim Ward, became charged up over the prospect of a depth to him. He's a right jolly old elf, full Bob Rieman, Beth Storey uf Bob Depuy 
free handout, and fearful they would be the of kindness and cheer and chuckles. He and Edward Easeby-Smith who died of unfortunates who got cheated out of booty. rewards the beatific urchins with oranges, cancer in the same month...! think of Pete In the end, of course, they looked like a and snubs the mean-tempered ones with Lardy, and of Jim Gallagher, who died in a bunch of tough, young rough necks rip­lumps of coal; he bears a commercialized, tragic accident a year ago on December 7. ping off the rich kids without gratitude or department store likeness to the In all these deaths, one senses that the couth . After a toy or two had been Calvinistic God of the Protestant ethic. He parents accepted the sacrifice that was snatched away, the moppets began to cry does not stir the heart, partly, I think, required of them, and gave it back to the 
at the sight of the grabbing little fists and because he represents a generosity that people of this campus as a gift and a the insistent chant: "Hey, kid, give me has no overtones of sacrifice. He gives beauty we cannot lose sight of. There is a something," or, "How about a present for without effort or sweat, and the only things mystery in death ...and a particularmy crippled brother?" Still, their father, he requires of me are acquisitiveness and mystery for us in the death of these young anxious to instill the precept of its being a history of not having talked back. Such a people ... whereby we· find the grace to be more blessed to give than to receive, kept creature could be hung in effigy as a born again, as though it were only when a 
shoving packages into their hands. parody of the giving God. (If you don't flower is plucked that we know how sweet Finally a neighborhood mother hailed mind, of course, we will wait until after it is to be a flower. 
him. "Hey, mister," she said, "Get the Christmas to hang him ... after I have "God so loved the world," St. John hell out of here. We don't need your received my new skates and red sled, and writes, "that He gave his only-begotten
charity, and you're driving the kids crazy. shining new bicycle for next summer.) Son" ... and this is the message that was Get the hell out of here before I call a cop." But I want to look heyond the tree, the sung by angels. There is almost nothing I So my friend drove off with his family, Birth, the cradle, and the star, to the other can know of God, but there is a great deal and I don't think even then he understood side of Christmas: to the caring Father that I know of the love that is required for 
that in trying to deliver his own children Who carried Christmas in His heart from the giving of sons, because I have seen from the demons of greed, he had set loose all eternity. I want to imagine something those parents whose children have been the demons of selfishness on a city street of the love that was in heaven pre-existing summoned into light; their giving brings
among urchins who needed only to see the Messiah's birthday; something of the God the generosity of God's giving a little Disney Dalmatians. The next day he who gave His only-begotten Son as a gift; closer to earth. 
sent the remaining gifts to be handed out and the only images I have to draw on are 
In every neighborhood, there is alwaysat an orphans' picnic. the human analogues of the beauty of one smart-aleck kid who will say: "It's I remember two years ago, in a Bowery parents I have known on earth. really not Santa, you know. It's really just mission, when I tried to give Christmas Six or seven years ago, a student named your mother, and your father dressed up in 
money to people I judged to be the Mark Schirnieyer was killed in an auto 
a red suit with a pillow in his tum." You deserving poor. I gave--privately and accident on Notre Dame Avenue. The could kill that kid because you really
discriminatingly, I thought --a couple of car was driven by a student who never didn't want to know. But think how bad it dollars here, a couple of dollars there, to stopped because he was too drunk to know would be if some contemporary smart­be spent on treats; and I gave twenty that an accident had happened in the aleck could truthfully say: "It's really not 
dollars to a poor student to buy books with. darkness. He ran the gate at the circle; your parents, you know. It's really that fat The next morning, the backbiters were and it was only later, when they found him 
fairy of a gentleman from Up North. He 

waiting for me: "What to hell did you give in his room. that he learned of Mark's loves kids and spoils them, and he's money to him for, Father; he'll only drink death from his rector. sponsored by Macy's and Gimbel's, byit away." Or, "What to hell did you give The funeral was held in Fort Wayne, and Tiffany's and F.A.O. Schwartz's." money to her for? She's got bankbooks, a lot of Notre Dame people were there, 
Given my choice, I would prefer myFather; she's the richest old bag on the including the student who had driven the parents; even when they are role playingBowery." Then, after the cut-down, there death car. Some of us will never forget the with Donner and Blitzen, they teach me was always the personal solicitation: scene at the cemetery after the final the lessons of heaven touching earth,

"Could you spare me something, Father? prayers had been said. Mark's parents which no faith
without Christmas isCould you make it five dollars? And if you came over to where the grievinJ{, guilt­possible. If they are kind enough to be 

could make it ten, you could keep an stricken student stood. They had never met Santa Claus, I will know them as servants honest woman from parting with her good the boy, but he must have been pointed out of the Child because I can see the scars name to the landlord." I quickly learned to them. Mark's mother kissed the boy; 
they bear in their hands. Some of their 

that my good intentions in giving alms was Mark's father put his arms around him best kindnesses, I will be too young to destructive of dignity and decency, and of and hugged him. In their graciousness, receive until I have earned some scars of the chance of an honest relationship they felt more sorry for him than they felt my own. between me and the derelicts my small for themselves. In that moment, I think Merry Christmas. If you are in New wealth could corrupt. I thought to myself: they were pretty closely identified with the York, look me up in the Village: St. Santa Claus may be a principal figure in a God who gave His only-begotten son that Joseph's Church ... 371 Avenue of the feast of good will, but even for Santa Claus, others might have life. Americas ... 212--741-1274 (that is a phone mere generosity is not enough. A merely In all the deaths of Notre Dame students number, not a Zip code.) Remember: generous Santa Claus can cause more I have known about in the years that Darby O'Gill and I never said we didn't problems than the Grinch who stole the followed, there has been that same kind of love you. 

the best books of 1975 
thomas o'neil 

standing honors <from this reviewer) do Tales of Power, and Helter Skelter. All of our history in The Glory and the Dream
not go to the rookies. Ragtime and Dog these caused either a crossfire of was probably the best of the lot, even 
Soldiers were exelltnt works, but were discussion or a reaction of awe, and were though the plebians turned more quicklysurpassed by the calculated literary genius worthy of their best-selling status. and more often to the others in the of Heller's Something Happened. William Manchester's panoramic view of bookstores. 
Besides the works of notable fiction, 1975 was also an exellent year for the publication of formerly unrevealed letters by such various writers as Steinbeck, Wollf, James and Wharton. These letters added much to our personal understanding of each of the authors, but the reason for their oversight in the past has much to do with their current publication: they describe, for the most part, the sexual lives of our literary giants. 
One of the most publicized occurances this season in the realm of contemporary fiction was Agatha Christie's retirement of Poirot in Curtain. After 80-some books and 80-some years of life she has apparently likewise retired her accomplished plume to catch a last few ·breaths of life before expiring. But who knows? We may yet be in store for some future invention of mysterious skullduggery. 
The literary season overall, then was a substantial success artistically and financially. A majority of our most celebrated writers were back in print, even Mailer with The Fight and Vidal with Myron. It was also, howowever, a season in which new talents emergred and thereby a healthy one of considerable balance. 
On the non-fiction front, the best of the year honors go to The Glory and The 
The Observer feature staff wishes all a Merry Christmas
Dream, Against Our Will, Here at the New Yorker, Breach of Faith. Before the Fall, 



fred graver 
The top ten films of the year and how I 
came to pick them ..... 
.-\marcord-Federico Fellini made film magic with this. The story of a young man's coming of age i~ an Italian villa~e: told in hilarious, touchmg scenes. Felhm reaches a sort of miniscus in this film, just about ready to overflow in emotion, but not quite. Beautiful photography, superb production. . . ,
A Brit'( Vacation-One of the f1Ims I d1dn t see. But reliable sources told me that it was a fine, fine movie. In a year w~en I'm having a hard time coming up w1th ten films to pick as tops, I can't pass by a good one just because I didn't get around to seeing it. Tht' llav o( The Locust-John Schlesinger, Director of Midnight Cowboy, told with an emphasis on the lives that were twisted the­re. Donald Sutherland plays man left dull and witless by the personal horror around 
him. It takes the show away from the 
"star," Karen Black, who has done better 
jobs.  A stunning finish, in which people  
t am  le each other at a world premier~,  
lisa moore  

You know how to recognize a true and incurable movie fan? Sit him down in front of a screen. Tell him he's never heard of. If he agrees, no questions asked, he's a prime specimen of that species of huff that purelv enjoys movies for . their own sake. Your most devoted servant places herself in that category and offers a smattering of films seen recently that would appeall to this genus of movie-goer. 
The CAC should be commended for pfforts n•sulting in a first-rate semester. Anyone who enjoys enveloping mysteries must see Jack Nicholson's performance m "Chinatown" and Gene Hackman in Coppola's "The Converstation" Both are Pxcelll'ntthrillers, great escapes and well-
trying to get a look at a big movie idoL Death Race 2000-Most people don't even know that this movie exists, but I contend that it will become a "cult classic," like Night or the Living Dead, andTexas Chainsaw Massacre. The Death Race i a cross-country speed trip run by the government to keep the people happy. Drivers get points by injuring, maiming, and killing people along the way with their death machines. The feebler the victim and the more creative the death, the more points. One guy gets points forbackingup over his pit crew, another by running over the "high priest" of the race. The kind of movie you'll wait up for till four in the morinng for once you've seen it. Love and neath-One of these days I'm going to get around to writing a letter to Woody Allen and letting him know that Diane Keaton just doesn't cut the mustard. 
Aside from her wooden presence, this is Woody Allen's most sustained and witty movie yet, and a definite sign of better things to come yet. Perhaps next time he might take on two more serious topics. 
Nashville-On second thoughts, I bet a lot of critics will take back some of the outrageously good things they said about 
produced films. The Bergman Festival was highly successful and a move tht I hope will set a precedent for future semesters--"Scenes from a Marriage" is one of the most poignant and meaningful films I've ever seen. Bergman at his finest which is the finest. 
"Farewell, My Lovely' is not a great film, but is is technically one of the best I've ever seen. Mitchum at his best. 
"The Homecoming", written by Harold Pinter, was a bizarre but very interesting soap-opera inversion, one shot laughter, one shot horror, in the best absurdist tradition. Excellent acting in this classic about a family seeking a mother-figure. 
PBS's "Cassie Theatre" featured Ib­sen's "Hedda Gbbler" last month, a stark and passionate drama about a woman starving for power and self-assertion in a society which denies her both. Janet Suzman plays a powerful leading role and 
this film. 

injustice by building it up as they did. Even Citizen Kane got a chance to prove its own merits. Anyway, this is a great movie and the best one even made and Robert Altman is God, and these are the best actors in the world and the Bible isn't as complex as this script. I liked it a lot; it gave Lily Tomlin a chance to act and gave Ronee Blakely a chance to meet Dylan. 
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest-I've only seen a few scenes from this, some in previews and some on talk shows, but it looks to be a fiercely captured rendition of Ken Kesey's great novel. Jack Nicholson treads the fine line between reality and illusion in his portrait of Randall McMurphy, and a lot of the people making the film thought towards the end that he was going crazy. 
Portrait or an Actor·-Winner of the Grand Prix for student films at the Chicago International Film Festival. A documentary about an actor named Jack Wallace,living in Chicago and trying hard to live by the truth he feels in his craft, though the breaks just aren't coming. A real-life heartbreaker, made with an in-
is backed by a good supporting cast. 
I saw an old film this summer, "The 
Odessa File", that was a masterfully done 
mystery and statement. It is the story of 
one man's personal war against an ex­
commander in the Nazi regiment. Very 
moving. Very surprising. 
Allow me the pleasure of recording that 
"Jaws" and "Rollerball", the two big 
summer attractions, were two of the worst 
films I've ever laid eyes and ears on. 
Shallow, trite and and insult to any in­
telligent person's taste. Some people 
really take the American public for 
doorknobs. Thank you. I feel much 
relieved. 

I am admittedly a hopeless but 
struggling romantic caught in an age 
where romantiCism is saterized, "not 
cool," and associated with trash like 
"Love Story." I plead for any sensitive 
person to pitch the reviews and see Red-rarely seen of felt in documentaries. A Woman Under the lnriuence-This movie was released in 1974, and by rights shouldn't be on this list, but I'm putting it here because 1) it was a bad year for movies and 2) no one started paying at­tention to it until this year. John Cassavetes has a unique style of direction. based entirely on the actors finding their way to the audience. In this film. everything came together for him. \'oung Frankenstein-Mel Brooks is a genius. Here we have a comic tribute to the old horror films which. in perfect tribute, is funnier after you've see it than when you're watching it-just like the old time horror films. Peter Brook plays Frankenstein with a real feeling for the monster that Boris Karloff created. Gene Wilder is remarkably restrained and disCiplined as the Young Dr .Frankenstein. 
Everybody has a good lime. 
Honorable mention goes to the animated credits at the beginning of "Return of the Pink Panther." 
At the top of my gross-out list is "Tommy." That's all for now. Like the ads in the 
•'Enjoy life! Go Out To a 
.
•

ford and Mia Farrow in "The Great G­tsby." I fell in love with it at first sight, but, doubting my own taste beside that of reputable New York reviewers, saw it twice more. But no go, Time magazine. It's a moving and beautiful film in my eyes, certainly no shame to F.Scott. It will 
be on television again--don't believe everything you read <we're college students and we,of all people.should know that l. While on the subject of schmaltzy movies ... I was pleased to see "Dr. Zhivago" on television. It, too, is a gorgeous drama and a tribute to the literary work. If "Splendor in the Grass" l Natalie Wood and Warren Beatty--his first major film) is ever on late-night movies when you're still awake, test the romantic in yourself. It's one of my all­time favorites. Are there any of us <the incurables> left anymore? Personally, I detest realism. 


What makes an album a "Best of the Year" choice':''Is it one that is popular; or one that is different? Since music itself is incredibly diversified, the taste in music can only bethesame, so a list will never satisfy everyone, or anyone for that matter. The following list probably excludes some very fine recordings, but the selections present all show some degree of diversification, competence, innovation and of course, fine music. 
gregg bangs 
Billy Cobham--Spectrum 
The ex-John McLaughlin drummer is making innovative strides in modern jazz with every album he turns out. 
Chick Corea--Return To Forever 
Corea, like Cobham, Herbie Hancock and Chuck Mangione ,is making modernistic jazz very popular these days. Corea presents his product a little better than most. 
Crosby & Nash--Wind On The Water 
This is the best effort to come out of the remnants of the supergroup, CSNY. As usual. thevocals are excellent, but there is some fine writing and back-up musicians to go along with it. Very pleasant listening.
Dan l<'ogelberg--('apturt'd Angel 
A personal favorite. Fogelberg is a versatile writer-singer-musician. He sometimes gets marred in sentimental lyrics, but his vocals and ove~all "listenability" make this an attractive album. Watch for Fogelberg in the future. 
John Fogerty--John Fogerty 
J .F. was Creedence Clearwater Revival. After a long lay off, he has come back with an album in which he did 
everything officiall) He shows off talent on both guitar and saxophone. Good solid rock in' --good to have him back. Bruce Springsteen-Born To Run 
Regardless of all the hoopla both pro and con, this is still a fine album. Springsteen and the E Street Band offer a listener a totally different style of music then proceed to pound it out over your head. Stay with it. Steely Dan-Katy Lied 
The Dan has never turned out a bad album, which is more than most current groups can boast. Walter Becker and 
Donald Fagen collaborate to turn out the strangest lyrics this side of Guadalajara. 
In Gary Katz and Roger Nichols, they have the best production team in the music industry. 
James Taylor--Gorilla 

Unlike past albums, this has an op­timistic air about it. All songs are written and performed well, especially "Mexico." 
"Best or" Albums 
It seems as if everybody, whether they deserve it or not, has a "best of" album out now. The ideal "best of" album would be one which is able to present an accurate account of a group's work without falling into a "most popular 45's" rut. For this reason, the best of the "best of's" .are The Very Best or Poco and The Best OF Carly Simon. Poco's two disc set is a good representation of a fine, but unfortunatley unknown, country-rock group. 
Best Group--Eagles Best Single--"Miracles" Best Female Vocalist--Linda Ronstadt 
with Bonnie Raitt on her tail. Best Male Vocalist--Dan Fogelberg Mediocre Award--Elton John Comeback Award--Marty Balin, Pure 
Prairie LeagueHowdy Time Concert Award--Eagles in .ll•rsey City, Springsteen in N.Y. & Chicago 
Speaking of ''best of's", best of luck on finals and have a good year. 

patrick small 
Fleetwood Mac emerged from personnel changes, management hassles, and stale recordings to release one of the finest lp's of the year, Fleetwood Mac. The group was bolstered by the addition of a couple of new members, throaty vocalist Stephanie Nicks and singer-guitarist Lindsey Buckingham, who contributed a half of the material for the new album. However, it was Christine MeVie's development as a singer and songwriter that lifted the album from the ranks of the rest, especially with "Say You Love Me" and "Over My Head" which is finally realizing some deserved AM airplay. Sparkling has been the consensus on their live performances and I hear they still play "The Green Manilishi.'' 
Jefferson Starship has emerged from the veritable dregs to perform and also produce a noteworthy album, Red Oc­topus. While the term "Balin is back" is a cliche by now, the man Marty, if not rescuing the group from oblivion certainly put them in the spotlight with "Miracles" the first bona-fide hit single since, well, "White Rabbit." 
Perhaps my favorite album of the current year was "Old and in the Way." The only release of what was basically a touring band, the album offers bluegrass with a touch of the modern, featuring veteran country fiddler Vassar Clemens, Dead guru Jerry Garcia on banjo, Peter <Panama Red) Rowan on guitar, David Grisman on mandolin, and John Kahn on string bass. The instrumentation is marvelous and the vocals, while sometimes a little ragged make up for it in slickness and style. 
w.s. nichols 
"Nightrillt'rs" 
If you want to find some really good, gil­down Southern boogie, look no further than Charlie Daniels and his magic fingers. If the CDB can't get you rockin' into a frantic sweat, then somebody should unplug your respirator! 
' "Nothin' Fancy" 
Heartwood was a little-known Southern band that put out the best country-rock album of early 1975. Clean, fresh vocals coupled with some well-written songs and Joe McGiohan's pedal steel and sax made it a real winner. Unfortunately, the life on the road was too much for them and the band broke-up in late summer. The album is on the GRC label-good luck in finding it. I'm taking real good care of mine. 
"Walking Shoes" Randall Bramblett is the premier saxophonist in Macon Ga., and some of his friends and he decided to show the rest of the world just why his is number one. They did a good job of showing us in 
"Walking Shoes". Watch for this man, he's coming up the ladder real fast. 
"Riding High" 

If you like cowboy hats, Lone Star Beer, pickup trucks and wide open spaces, then Jerry Jeff Walker is the man for you. Even if you've never been further south than Indianapolis, JJ Walker will make you feel like you're in good ole 'Awstin Texas, sippin' a brew. He's an unadulterated , plain-singing Country and Western singer with one desire -to have a good time. That's what you'll have too. 
"Hiow by Blow" 

Far and away, the best album to cross the Atlantic this year, Jeff Beck can be proud of his achievements in this album. This is the kind of rock n' roll that can roll on all night long. One things for sure, Beck is one hell of a guitarist. 
BEST SONG: "High Falls" -Allman Bros. Band 
ACT Nov. 1 

It was almost a tossup between this and Marshall Tucker. But I've never left a concert in such astate asI did Nov. I. The whole show was Ian Anderson. Never before have I seen such a total performer. His mastery of the flute is incredible! And his showmanship! A humorist, satirist, and acrobat all rolled up in one. The other members added to the dynamic energy of the performance greatly. Seemingly 
flawless performance of extraordinary compositions provided for a totally superb show. With all that electricity on stage at one time, one more infinitessimal in­tegration into the show would have wasted my musical mind for good. To be honest, all around me, myself included, were stunned by the musical display of that night. 

------~ -------~-----­
------------~-----~~~-­
~ the observer •-•· -s. '"' 
! 


SMC student enters urban affairs program 

by Linda Barkley Staff Reporter 
St. Mary's Washington Semester program will add a new dimension this spring by sponsorint the first St. Mary's student to enter the urban affairs division of the program at the American University Washington, D.C. 
The Washington semester program allows students from over 150 colleges across the nation who are interested in government to become directly involved in current political affairs. 
The program, which began five years ago on a National govern­ment level, has expanded to In­dude an International develop­ment study. a foreign affairs study 
Report finds 'no direct evidence'of 
U.S. involvement in fall of Allende 
WASHINGTON <AP> -The Senate Intelligence Committee said Thursday the United States spent millions of dollars in a ten-year undercover effort lo influence the course of do­mestic politics in Chile. 
A 62-page study described 
U.S. attempts to manipulate the Chilean press, influence elec­tions and forment a military coup. However, the report said the committee could find no evidence of direct American in­\'olvement in the military coup which topped Marxist President Savatore Allende in 1973. 
At a news briefing, Gregg Treverton of the committee staff said, "It is fair to say that the U.S. cannot escape some responsibility for <Allende's) downfall.'' 
<>!her parts of the report de­scribed secret U.S. efforts to prevent Allende's election and after they failed to block him from taking office. 
The covert actions began in 1964, with financial support for Allende's chief oppojent, Eduardo Frei, the committee 
report said. Frei was elected in 
SHARE THE RIDE WITH US THIS CHRISTMAS AND GET ON TO AGOOD THING. 
Us means Greyhound. and a lot of your fellow students who are already on to a good thing. You leave when you l1ke. Travel comfortably. Arrive refreshed and on time. You'll save money, too. over the increased air fares. Share the ride with us on weekends. Holidays. Anytime. Go Greyhound. 
GREYHOUND SERVICE 
ONE­ ROUND­ YOU CAN  YOU  
TO  WAY  TRIP  LEAVE  ARRIVE  
Clevdand  13.45  26.90  4:00 pm  10:05 pm  
Chicago  4.70  9.40  1:35pm  3:05 pm  
Pittsburgh  25.85  51.70  4:00 pm  1:40am  
Buffalo  22.95  45.90  4:00pm  5:15am  
Cincinnati  18.50  37.50  2:30pm  10:00 pm  

Ask your agent about additional departures and return trips. 
Greyhound Bus Terminal 
ADDRESS 287-6541 




GO GREYHOUND 
...and leave the driving to us® 
• ' • • • • .. • 
......
··,..···~-,...·~...· -···...-~.,...· ..-·..·..;~~··-····,.,····~·...·.,..··,;;··...,·.,..·~(....;.~~~;.;a,;;..&.fi..._..;..;.~~..;,J,J· ·:-.:~•·•ie,e ~···• •..._•. ~·· ~· •··~~ i-:.-~-.:16 ~·.·~ ~---~ ~-:~ .~·~.,~--~ ~ ~'.~~ 0 
and just recently an urban affairs 
study. 
Students involved in the program receive 16 credit hours. They do not attend classes but work on an internship basis. 
The internship provision requires participants to attend seminars in which high-ranking government officials lecture and converse ,with the students. Later, interpretive sessions are held to delve further into issues discusses in the seminars. 
Positions in the governmental work force are guaranteed to all students in the Washington Semesterprogram. Students can be placed in any agency of the government, including the White 
1964. After Allende was elected president of Chile in 1970, the report added, the U.S began "advocating and encuraging the overthrow of a democrati­cally elected government." 
The covert operations, car­
ried  out  by  the  CIA,  were  
aimed  at  encouraging  the  over­ 
throw  of  Allende  and  were  ap­ 

proved by the 40 Committee headed by Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, according to the report. Kissinger has stated publicly that all covert actions he approved against Chile also were known to then­President Nixon. 
The report noted that "the United States was seen, by its covert actions, to have con­tradicted not only its official declarations but its treaty com­mitments and principles of long standing." The charters of both the United Nations and the Or­ganization of American States prohibit member nations from interfering in the affairs of oth­er countries, except in self de­fense. 
In comparing covert actions in Chile to those in other coun-House. 

"Last year, one St. Mary's student assigned to the Library of Congress, was asked to return to Washington, D.C. the following summer as a paid employee of the government," said Dr. Louis Tondreau Chairmen of St. Mary's Government Department. 
To qualify for the Washington Semester program one has to be at least a second semester sophomore and a government major," Tondreau said. One must also have a grade point average of 
2.5 or above and be a student of St. Mary's College. 
Students are selected largely on the topic submitted for their research paper which is to be 
tries, the staff report said "the scale of CIA involvement in Chile was unusual but by no means unprecedented." Staff members said they issued the report because the White House had forbidden administration officials to testify. 

•-············································ .• 
: Presenting Colorado Sage : : men's cologne by Jess Bell : 
e A totally new fragrance formulated with sage plants that grow wild in e • the beautiful high country of Colorado. Now you can enjoy the refreshing experience • : of Colorado Sage-pungent, fresh and pure-wherever you go. Yours in this unique : • men's collection designed by Jess Bell-Cologne, After Shave, Liquid Talc, Rubdown, • 
e Dry Skin Conditioner, Soap, Western Bronzer, and Deodorant.
•

• Available at 

: NOTRE DAME B.OOKSTORE 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

researched and written in Tondreau. "After all we can onlyWashington, D.C. The paper is a do so much in a classroom and we requirement of the program and cannot bring the national govern­
also fulfills the government ment to South Bend." requirement of a senior essay. As one St. Mary's sophomore"This program is an ex­states, "I can learn more in one 
ceptional opportunity to see the semester in Washington D.C. than government in action, " stated in four years at Saint " 

starring

Michael Sarrazin Jennifer 0'Neill 
ALSO: a shocker ,SISTERS, 
6:0 
• 
: 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
~ ·• ~-•• ...; 


-~~-~ --~--------­
15

Friday, Decembers, 1975 the observer 
Federal offices hit 

Bombs explode ·in Miami 

MIAMI (AP) -Bombs ex­ploded here Thursday at two government offices, including the Police Department, as se­curity was tightened after four explosions Wednesday in other government offices. 
Bombs exploded at four fed­eral buildings and a bank Wednesday night. Blasts set off Thursday afternoon damaged a police locker room and a coun­ty justice building men's room near a state prosecutor's office. 
The blasts caused only one minor injury and minor dam­ages. They were the latest in a string of explosions in the past 18 months in Miami, where large numbers of Cuban exiles are interested in Cuban-U.S. re­lations. 
While investigators refused to speculate about motives in the 
Madrigal Dinner deemed successful as introduction to the Christmas season 
by Denise Persinger and Margaret Juntwait Starr Reporters  Mary's Music Department. "The Night Bell" by Gaetano Donizetti is a comedy about the Italian law on the legality of marriage only after consumation. The comedy  whole evening was very nice," she added. The dinners will continue through Sunday night, Dec. 7, with a special Monday night  
was translated and adapted by Stevens. "They all did a splendid job," said Stevens. "The  performance for President M. Duggan, and his guests. All performances are  John  

latest explosion, two · Communist prime minister.
groups claimed responsibility for the blasts and a leader in the Cu­ban community said that poli­tics was involved. 
Juan Jose Peruyero, former president of the Bay of Pigs Veterans Association, blamed the bombings on the appear­ance here Thursday of Asst. Secretary of State William Ro­gers, whom he described as "public enemy No. 1 of the freedom of Cuba." 
"Things are too hot in Miami now for this type of provoca­tion," Peruyero said. He called Rogers "one of the main advo­cates of renewal of relations with <Fidel) Castro," Cuba's 
Rogers spoke to Florida busi­ness and government leaders while 100 persons picketed out­side the downtown hotel. He said his position -favoring re­laxation of relations with Cuba -was similar to that of Presi­dent Ford and Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger. 
Police said there were con­flicting claims of responsibility for the bombings -one from a group calling itself New Black Hevolutionary Front and the other from the Cuban Youth Group, linked to a bomb found at the University of Miami last Sunda 

An Evening With 


STEVE 
GOODMAN 
8:00P.M. STEPAN CENTER 
FRIDAY DECEMBER I2. I97S general admission tickets: 50 cents cheap go on sale Thursday Dec. II. I2 noon at SU ticket office 
Friday, December 5, 1975

16 the observer
r 
~ 
t 
Calendar vote surprises grad rep
t Donald Roy, graduate student It is a faculty matter to get students." Grounds cited the at present the University could GSG members also expressed government representative to the students to come to class." proximity of the social center to probably acquire the builidng for concern over the lack of Academic Council, was "com­Roy identified the faculty the new graduate women's dor-less than $5,000. cooperation on the part of the pletely surprised" by the Council's representatives as the swing vote mitory to be opened in the fall of "In view of the C.O.U.P. Observer in reporting graduate vote to reduce the Thanksgiving in the calendar resolution, 1976. Report's recommendation that the affairs, citing the failure to an­break. stressing that "In no way do I University concentrate on nounce the distribution of graduateconsider this the decision of the ·The Business Office had made renovation of existing buildings student directories and the In a report to the Graduate Administration alone. It was a the decision to have Aquinas rather than the building of new establishment of the GSU bail bond 
Student Government at that organization's weekly meeting on Dec. 4, Roy noted that "There was no indication on the part of the 31 people who voted for the proposal that they would do so prior to the actual vote." The effect, Roy observed, limited debate. on the question. The student represen­tatives presumed the Thanksgiving break would remain what it has been in the past. 
Questioning the logic behind the vote, Roy noted that the decision to have class on Friday of Thanksgiving week was not likely to produce another class day for the academic calendar if students simply refused to show up. Regarding the burden on parents of financing two fall trips home, Roy feels this was a matter to be worked out between students and parents. 
Commenting on the supposed danger of the "erosion" of Thanksgiving week, Roy remarked that "The erosion of the family is of greater c~m.cern than the erosion of Thanksg1vmg week. 
vote of the Administration and the faculty members." 
The GSG also heard a report from President Margaret Grounds on the Union's negotiations in acquiring the Aquinas Book Store and the adjoining warehouse as a grad-student social center for the fall semester of 1976. 
Grounds reported that the bookstore proper has ap­proximately 2,500 sq. ft. of space, but noted that this area is presently divided into small rooms and would require a good deal of renovation for use as a social center. The warehouse would provide an additional2,400 sq. ft. of space which is already open. 
"It would be ideal," Grounds noted, "for movies, dinners, dances, departmental parties and any other gatherings involving a significantportionof the more than 1,200 graduate students here at Notre Dame. Furthermore, we would like to plan for a rathskellar which, because of its location, would attract off-campus grad 

Ex-representative visits with ex-president Nixon 
VALPARAISO, Ind. (AP) ­Former Rep. Earl F. Land­grebe, "busting at the seams" to report on his Nov. 26 meet­ing with former President Rich­ard M. Nixon, will do just that at a news conference Friday. 
The Indiana Republican was one of Nixon's strongest sup­porters during the Watergate upheaval. 
Landgrebe said Wednesday he and his wife, Helen, visited the former President at his San Clemente, Calif., home for an hour and 15 minutes. 
The discussion touched on In­diana politics and Nixon's views of President Ford and former California Gov. Ronald Reagan, who is challenging Ford for the 1976 Republican nomination. 
At the time, however, Land-grebe refused to give specifics on what was said. 
He did say Nixon, who car­ried Indiana in all three of his presidential campaigns, was "vitally interested" in next year's Republican primary battle between Indianapolis Mayor Richard G. Lugar, for­mer Gov. Edgar D. Whitcomb and former GOP State Chair­man Charles O.Hendricks for the U.S. Senate nomination. 
Lugar, who is stepped down after eight years as In­dianapolis mayor, once was known as Nixon's favorite may­or, and was an adviser to Nix­on on urban affairs. 
"I never heard him say 'damn it' and there was no pro­fanity and obviously there was no bitterness," Landgrebe said. "He didn't seem to be car­rying a chip on his shoulder about anything." 
The visit was "a very warm, exciting hour and much more than I expected," Landgrebe added. 
He saia Nixon "looks about the same ... but maybe not quite as crisp and starchy. I never saw him as President when his 
clothes had a wrinkle." 
LandgreJ:>e refused to say whether Nixon advised him to get back into politics or seek the 2nd District Republican no~ination for Congress next sprmg. 

~*******************************1
! SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION I : PRESENTS # : 2nd ANNUAL # 
isT. NICHOLAS BAZAARj
* * 
* * 
~ MON. DEC. 8 : * * 
~ AND I 
* ~ TUES.DEC.9 *I 
* * 
~ 10:00-5:00 I 
* * 
~ LEMANS LOBBY I
* * 
* ~ Come and Buy your *I * * 
: Christtms treats... t ** . db ** 
:. or JUSt come a11 .... T?~~.,,.. : ~*~~·~·~•********'*****'*****'****'· 
remove the warehouse for esthetic reasons and because the bookstore's asking price for the ·building was prohibitive. Grounds reported that the bookstore is now willing to consider a much reduced price. She expressed a belief that 

Stanford, Keenan dedicate chapel 
Keenan and Stanford will hold a special mass this Monday, the feast day of the Immacculate 
Conception, to rededicate their 
chapel. The remodeled chapel has a new altar and pulpit of Red Oak, 100 new chairs, a wooden sculptured crucifix by Ivan Mestrovic and two paintings by New York im­pressionist Vaclar Vytlacil. 
Former rectors and assistant rectors will concelebrate the mass along with members of the University administration. 
Refreshments will be served after the mass. 

ones," Grounds explained, "it is unlikely that this structure will be replaced once it is removed." 
The GSG also completed plans for its Placement Night to be held in Room 317 of the Administration Building at 7 p.m. on January 27. The evening's objective is to in­troduce graduate students to the Placement Bureau's services. 
The evening will feature_ speakers representing business and industry as well as govern­ment employers. Refreshments will be served. 

service as examples of the paper's "benign neglect." 
ISO room open 
The International Room in the basement of LaFortune which has alway been open for ISO members during the day will have a new allure starting Monday. As last semester, coffee, and when possible, snacks will be served during the noon lunch hours. 

once again be ~ponsoring a STUDENT BOOK 
~ .... 

EXCHANGE. Sellers may drop off Jr"""k'S" on the following days only. llf!J""1ANUARY 13 AND 14. Watch for time and place. 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 
DECEMBER 5 & 6 
PARAIOUIT PICTURES PRESEITS AI ALBERTS. RUDDY PRDDUCTIOI 
STARRING

BURTREYNOLOS 7, 9, 11 P.M. IN"THE 
LONGEST YARD'' ADMISSION $1 
ENGINEERING AUD. 



The second generation is here. Hewlett-PackardS newestcalculators make uncompromising Christmas gifts. 
Especially when you're on the receiving end. 
One of our second generation calculators can save you countless hours and errors en route to your diplcma and on the job thereafter. Each offers problem-solving tech­nology you proha hly won't tlnd on com pet it ive ca kula tors 
for years to come, if ever. 

Newlowprice.
HP-21 Scientific, 
$100.00:·.. 
The I IP-21 makes short work of the techniLal cakub­tions e\'en so-called "non-technical" courses requin: toda~·. It performs all arithmetic, log and trig calculations auto­matically. It's also the only cakulator at its price that otter~ full display formatting: you can choose between !ixed deci­mal and scientific notation. 
If you need a calculator that does more than simple arithmetic, this is it-especially at its new, just-in-time-for Christmas price. 



New. 
HP-22 Business Management, 
$165.00*. 
The IIP-22 takes the st;Jrch out of the c;Jkulations \'OU face in business courses tod;Jy, in managenwnt tomor'!'~1w. You can solve most time-value-of-money problems in ~ec­onds. You can breeze through business math calculations (logs, roots, %s, etc.). And; most important, you can usc the liP-22's statistical functions to build existing data into more reliable forecasts. No other calculator at· any price offers you a comparable combination of llnancial, math and stat capabilities. 



New. 
HP-25 Scientific Programmable, 
$195.00!'. 
Our f-IP-25 does everything our IIP-2 1 can do-and much, much more. It's programmable, which means it can solve automatically the countless repetitive problems every science and engineering student faces. With an 111'-25, you enter the keystrokes necessary to solve a repetitive problem only once. Thereafter, you just enter the variables and press the Run/Stop key for an almost instant answer accurate to 10 digits. You gain time, precision, flexibility. 
All three offer you HP's efficient RPN logic system that cuts keystrokes and scratch pads. All three are easy to use (e.g., the I-IP-25 requires no prior programming experience). 
And all three are almost certainly on display at your bookstore.** Test them. Choose yours. Then drop a subtle hint to someone who doesn't know what to get you for Christmas. Such as mailing them a brochure. 
HEWLETT'PACKARD 
Sales and service from 172 offices in 65 countries. Dept. 6580, 19310 Pruneridge Avenue, Cupertino, CA 950H 
•Sugg.e'itcd reta.il price, excluding applica.bte 'i.t&te and local taxc"i-Contincntal U.S, A\.uka & llawaii. UJ( not, caiiSOO-HS-7922 (in Ulif. 800-602-9862) for the name of a dr011k•r ne1r you. bl4if16 
-
~ 
l I 
I 
1 
l 
l 
.. 
-~­

Doesn't have an opinion 
YE BIKES AND BIKES AND BIKES! WHY AREN'T THEY REGISTERED AND STORED FOR WINTER? You can still register and store your bike at Gate 10 of the Stadium. Daates and times: Today 1 to 4:30, next Thurs. 2:30 to 4:30 and next Fri. 1:00 to 
4:30. IF YOU HAVE REGISTERED ALREADY (REMEMBER IT COST $1) STORAGE IS FREE. BUT CAN REGISTER STILL ($1}, AND GET STORAGE FREE. 
· S · M
According to tahon anager 


Tele-co.mmunications lacking 
(Continued from page 9)He points out that the University provides no major in Tele-communications and 
that persons who desires even communications work instruction must enter American Studies to receive major credit. 
A finance major, Arminio attests to the frustration encountered by students like himself who have a great interest in radio broad­casting. "My chief complaint is that with the exception of two or three courses, a student interested in radio can do nothing to better himself on the air except to work at the radio station," he says. "The few courses that are offered are not even geared around the mechanics or writing tech1.iques of radio. The Voice and Diction course offered at St. Mary's would 
Hesburgh discusses calendar 
(Continued from page I) of 
the members of the Academic Council he said, would erode the academic year. 
It would break up the latter part of the semester too much, ac­cording to Hesburgh. He said a reason for not making a four-day Thanksgiving vacation was that the Council thought that this would lead to students taking an extended break of their own. 
Hesburgh said this year's
erosion of the Thanksving break 
was the worst he could remem­
ber. Some students responded that 
this was because they had been 
promised an "extended" break for 
Thanksgiving. Hesburgh coun­
tered by saying the exact working 
was that the break would be as 
long as would be "possible" with a 
post-Labor Day start. 
It was very interesting to 
Hesburgh that what the students are demanding this year is a
"complete reversal from what was wanted last year." He stated "90 percent of the students last year
said phooey on the October break"' the very things they were saying no to last year, they're saying 
yeas to this year.'' 

been forced to pat ourselves on the 
back long enough. It's about time that someone else around here pat our back for us," he states. 
Arminio directs his initial comments to those who have ex­pressed their dissatisfaction with the results of contests run by the station. 
However, contests sponsored by the station are usually true to their commitments. According to Arminio the Beach Boy Albums to be awarded were never received 
from the suppliers. 1he company · involved maintains that it sb1pped the albums as ordered but the merchandise has not appeared. 
Well versed in the station, ~ hi~ory' Arminio reminds the University t~at such persons ac Paul Udell m New York, Dm. 
Criqui who broadcasts the Ntre 
Dame football games worldwide on the Mutual network, Tim Ryan at NBC, and Jack Hines of WBZ 
Boston are all WSND alumni. 
"The University has a right to be 
proud of these persons," 'Arminio 
says, "and they should show that 
they want to turn out more people
like them.'' 
In concluding his statements, he expresses his personal viewpoint. "Being a natural optimist, I hope things will change. My being here four years at Notre Dame has not squelched my optimism as much as tempered it. I'm hopeful that the necessary changes will come even if I am not here to see it. Most importantly, I hope that budding broadcasters who wish to use WSND as an educational means will be afforded the OJ!portunity to 
do so" he summariied 

be ideal. However, this course is a ' 
graduation pre-requisit~ for an Drama workshop planned
speech and drama maJors at St. Mary's and it's quite obvious who 
~~~~~:.~~ prefer~nce for th~s to assist theatre groups 
Arminio focuses on another Three members of the 
aspect of the problem with equal Cooperative Department of Speech 
intensity. "This aloofness in the and Drama of Saint Mary's Notre 
college of Arts and Letters extends Dame will conduct an evening 
itself to the rest of the University workshop in theatre for those 
as well," he charges. "Many of the working in school, recreation and 
University higher-ups know next to community theatre programs. 
nothing about the station. We have The workshop will be held from 7 
even been confused with WNDU, a to 10 p.m. Tuesday, Dec. 9, in 
commercial station, by persons O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint 
who should demonstrate that they Mary's. 
are better informed. We've been Reginald Bain, chairman of the 
labeled incompetent by persons speech and drama department, 
who have never been up to the will serve as coordinator of the 
station to observe our work. Not evening and will discuss 
everybody may feel that way about production organization, sources 
us, but my point is that no one and resources for theatre in the 
should feel that way about us," he school, recreation program and 
explains. community theatre. Charles 
Arminio will not allow the Ballinger, assistant professor, will 
Present situation to remain as it is. explore acting techniques through 
mime, improvisation, and
"My job is to open up new . h d th 
avenues so that people in a position tradihona1 c aracter stu y me ­
to change things can hear us. 1 ods. Richard Bergman, designer­
have formed a publicity depart-technical director of the Notre 
ment to let every media source on Da~e-Saint. ~ary's Theatre, ~ill 
th · a " know about us. We've adv1se parhc1pants on techmcal 
IS c mpu. methods and procedures when . to dl.Splay facilities and funds are limited.SenlOE Individual sessions will be 
geared to the needs and interests of 
1 ·n "orms workshop members and to openporce Ql J 1 discussion of problem areas. The workshop is sponsored by
Debbie Griesmer, a senior at 
the Saint Joseph County
Saint Mary's, will open an exhibit 
Recreation Council and ,the
entitled "Porcelain Container 
Government Department of Saint
Forms" as her senior com­
Mary's College in coo ration with 
prehensive. The exhibit will be in the Indiana Commission of Highu Education. 
Anyone working with theatre for youngsters or adults is invited to attend. The program is open with­out charge. 
Zahm quilt sale to help missions 
Three Zahm residents are selling quilts at reduced prices for the benefit of the Holy Cross missions. The sale lasts until Dec. 14 and features various sizes and designs of quilts at prices ranging from $5 to $20. For more information, contact Kweku, Jerry or Jim at 8895, 147 Zahm. 
Choral concert 
Choral groups from Saint Mary's will present their annual Christ­mas Concert at 8 p.m., Thursday, Dec. 11 in the Charch of the Loretto. 
Featuring international Christmas music, the concert will include traditional renditions as well as modern versions of older carols. 
The Christmas Concert is open to the public witho~t charge. 

the Moreau Gallery from Dec. 11 to Dec. 18. 
STORE YOUR BIKES THIS
Debbie, from Tarrytow 1, New York, has had one woman s.1ows in 
WINTER FOR ONLY $7.50
the Hammes Gallery at Notre Dame in April 1974 and May 1975. Her works have also been accepted in the 3rd Biennial Lake Superior 
CORBY International Craft Exhibit in March 1975, Pottery V in San Luis 
LAUNDROMAT
Obispo, California, in April 1975, and in MCCN '75 (Marietta College Crafts National) in Marietta, Ohio, 
1015 E. CORBY 233-0896 
in Nov. 1975. Moreau Gallery hours are noon 
(JUST WEST OF BRIDGET'S) 
to 9 p.m. daily. 
The Academic  Council,  the  
highest academic University, has  body in changed  the thf  

calendar three times in the last three years, Hesburgh com-men ted. He stressed, however, that he was not a voting member of the Council, and that the calendar was not his. "I don't want to defend a calendar I didn't make," he said. 
Bob Quakenbush, HPC executive co-<>rdinator, said he realized that all the discussion wo~rl not change anything. He "s-v.ev~ Hesburgh what the best a~proach would be for appealing the Council's decision. 
Hesburgh said that anyone can appeal a decision at any time to the Council, which described as an "open body." He added "I don't see an awful lot a hope to get it chan~ed." 
When asked what h1s personal opion on the calendar was· Hesburgh said "I don't have an opinion. The calendar is a no-win game." To this several members in the audience shouted "Cop-out." 
After an hour ot speaking on the calendar, Hesburgh was questioned on other topics including the tenure system, the overcrowding in the Business School and the state of students' mental health today. He spokeuntil 9:30 p.m. 
Quakenbush said that the HPC had a representative from each hall at the talk. Some of us have already changed our minds on a method of approach," he said, referring to a possible appeal to the Academic Council. The decision on that would come this weekend at a special meeting being called by the HPC, he stated. 

'Danc1·ng Ir1·sh' formed· 1 tryouts held thl·s week 
by Patti Roucco Staff Reporter 

Capping last year's organizational work for beginning a drill team at Notre Dame are the tryouts for the "Dancing Irish" taking place this week. 
The tryouts are the culmination of an idea proposed by N.D. student Linda Slaughter. Working last year in conjunction with Bonita Bradshaw, Debbie Mciver, MaryAnne Shilala, Becky Thorn­ton, and a group os approximately 30 girls Slaughter has since dropped out. Bonita Bradshaw chairs the group this year who works very closely with faculty adviser Astrid Hotvedt, Notre Dame Sports Co-ordinator for women. 
As for the tryouts themselves, interested Notre Dame women can go to the second Floor of LaFor­tune from 10 to 11:30 p.m. to learn the new drill routine. Final tryouts are tentatively set for Monday night. A committee to head the drill team and form new routines will also be chosen, though cap­tains for the squad will not be picked until January 6. Tryouts results will be announced Tu.resday. 
Some of the priliminary work for the team already finalized con­tains a couple of scheduled ap­pearances at basketball games this February and the team's uniform which includes: an N.D. plaid skirt, yellow top, sash, tam and boots. One organizer Becky Thornton stated she believedthe team to be a "a good outlet for girls who want to get involved in a Notre Dame activity." Thornton added she felt this year's prospects should form "a real nice squad." 
Chairwoman Bonita Bradshaw could not be reached for comment, therefore the judges for the squad tryouts are not known. 

••••••••• ROCCO'S ••••••••• 
BARBERS & HAIRSTYLISTS 
A CHRISTMAS PRESENT; FOR ALL OUR FAITHFUL CUSTOMERS WE.RE OFFERING $1.00 OFF ON STYLE CUTS. 531 N MICHIGAN 233-4957 
FOR YOUR LACK PACKING 
NEEDS 

"AN IMPRESSIVE 
CHRISTMAS PRESENT 
FOR ONLY $1" 

Tix available at programming office-St. Mary's 284-4176 
Centur) Center Presents: 

'OONQUIXmE' 
llJIIDU ~RJUYW~-"DON QUIXOTE·-RUDOLF NUREYEV ROBERT HELPMANN LUCETfE ALDOUS-~ :fur 
E;RFO~MANCES FEB. 1st ..O'LAUGHLIN AUD. 

------~--~-------------------~~--~------------------------­
Frld•y, December 5, 1975 the observer 19 
----~~~~--------------------~~~~~~--~--------~ 
ND hockey team hosts Wisconsin .. 
by Chip Scanlon 
!<'or theNotreDame hockey team the last few weeks have been rough, but hopefully things will looking up for them in the next three weeks. This weekend the leers are looking to break a three game losing streak as they take on mad city's finest, the Wisconsin Badgers. 
Wisconsin has been struggling this year, the victim of what Irish coach Lefty Smith calls "crucialmistakes in the early going," but is starting to come around in recent games. This seems to be the way things are going for this year's Irish, running into teams just when they seem to be on a hot streak. 
The Badgers are a young but talented team. They return 16 monogram winners and among these are five of the league's top scorers and one of the league's top goalies. Mike Dibble returns in the goal with a current goals against average of 5.06 in the WCHA, quite a bit higher than his last year mark of 3.58. 
This will be an important series for Irish confidence and morale. During final examination week practice will be optional and this will throw the timing of the team off. So this Wisconsin series looms 
The action promises to be physical in theN D hockey team's games with Wisconsin this weekend. 


--.., 
~~ ~·--~ 

• 

Brian Walsh will be trying to continue his lines potent performance tonight against the Badgers. 
even more important. hockey powers, Harvard and 
The Irish will have to go about Boston College. This should prove their task without the services of interesting because the Irish will be Kevin Nugent and Geoff Collier. coming off a fifteen day lay-off due Nugent was injured over the to finals. But according to Alex weekend in Houghton, Michigan Pirus, "this series will be for and Collier iss till out from a freak pride." dorm accident. Also missing is Dave · Head coach Lefty Smith has Bossy who is recovering from a deemed these two games very knee injury. important to him because he feels 
After this series the leers can the series is like "the best in the look forward to two perennial West versus the best in the East." 


Harvard has been in the NCAA finals for the last two years and Boston College, despite currently experiencing a character rebuilding year, is always tough. For Notre Dame it will be a prestige game accordingtoSmith,a game they can use to recapture some of the prestige they lost in last year's 8-2 loss to Harvard's Crimson. 
After a brief respite the icers return from their Cristmas vacation to play three teams in ni­ne days for a total of five games.North Dakota is the first opponent in 1976 for the Irish and right now they don't look too for­midable. This last weekend they were swept by Michigan Stateand are tiedfor last place. The Fighting Sioux have been hurt by graduation and have been unable to put it together yet. 
Bowling Green is next for ND in an exhibition game at Bowling Green. Although BG is not in the WCHA, the NCAA is looking closely at all games this year. Last year the Falcons ended up with a 23-10-2 record that was the best in the school's history. 
Last. but certainly not least in the talent department, is Min­nesota's Golden Gophers. This is a team that came within one game of capturing its second straight national championship. Minnesota is currently in second place in the WCHA with an 8-3 record., and it is showing no effects _of losing 10 
lettermen to graduatwn. 
Among the returning Gophers 
are captain Pat Phippen, a senior 
who scored 22 goals combined with 
29 assists for a total of 51 points. 
Returning on defense is sophomore 
Heed Larsen, an NCAA All­
tournament selection as a fresh­
man. 
!<'or the immediate future the 
Irish will be trying to cut down on their goals against average, a problem area so far this year. Notn• Damehas been giving up about five goals a game and to hear Lefty Smith talk, "that is at least two too many." Smith remarked that "to he successful, you can only gi\'e up 
three goals a game." 
Another thing that the team will be concentrating on is l't'aeting to defensive sitLJations more quickly. "We've outshot everyone so far this year," saysSmith,"but we've either run up against good goaltending or we're getting off poorshots." 
So from now on the icers will be 
trying to "show some defensive 
improvement." A key to defensive 
play is backchecking, turning up 

...
the ice as soon as the other team gains possession of the puck. Then the opposing players find it more difficult to break out of their zone and aren't able to skate into the offensive zone unaccosted. And this is the area where Smith wants to get improvement fast. 
"We'll be trying to pick-up the wings a little quicker and quicken our overall reaction defensivP!y," Smith remarked. "You have to be strong on the fundamentals and when things aren't going well it's always good to start concentrating on them." 
Currently the Irish are posting a 4-6 record in the WCHA and although they are in seventh position in the league this isn't really cause for alarm. A sweep this weekend will put them right back into contention. 
If injuries will ease up on the Irish long enoughfor them to straighten out their lines, Smith's icers will be able to start playing the winning hockey they are capable of and vault them­selves into the top of the league standings. 
Hopefully, 1976 will be a better year for Notre Damehockey. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 

WANTED 
Wanted, used slide projector (3Smml good condition. Call 78.4­2518 
Need one roommate at crestwood apt. Now or next semester call John 289-9193 or R lch 283-6820 
NEED EXTRA CHRISTMAS CASH???? Will but one season BB ticket. Please call Lynda 7668 (10­Sl or 277-1089 after 6pm. 
St. Mary students needed as Campus sales representatives tor fashionable products. Earn ex­cellent money fast. Call Shawn 3318 
I need ride to Owosso, Mich. for x-mas break on either Wed evening, Dec 17 or Thurs am. Will share expenses call Terri 7051 
Need riders going to San Antonio, Texas for Christman break. Call Ron 1219 
Need ride to Sunny Southern California. Leave on the lOth. Call 8526, best after mldnlte. 
FOR SALE 
Electro-Voice EUS 163 speakers, 12", 3 way. S160 pr. Paull00-4 
For Sale: 1968 Dodge rt, 2 door sedan, 6 cyl., std. transmission, 68,000 miles, ssoo. Call Mike, 232­0761 
For Sale: 2 hockey goalie sticks. S3.SO each. Tom 33-41 
Turntable tor sale: BSR professional series model 2520 with wood base. Only S months old S70 dollars. Call 8230 
For sale: Volvo l«S, 1968 Call 277­0147 

Books make great gifts. Ne• ~
LOST AND FOUND 
books and box sets idea I tor Rent my upstairs. SSO month. 233­Lost: one small black dog who 
everyone. At Pandora's Books. 1329 answers to the name Corby. 
937 South Bend Ave. Owners have half a bag of Kroger 
Two female housemates wanted to special dog food they don't want to 
Used Boods and Paperbacks. share 3 bedroom house tor next go to waste. If found please call Large stock of general reading semester. 21/2 blocks from Angela­
material and o.p. books. Bring this ND. intersection. Call 289-.4303
288-0088 
ad and receive one free paperback between Spm and lOpm. Lost: Commodore-Kingspolnt 
with any $1.00 purchase. The Calculator in Nlewland Science at 
Bookstack 112 112 W. Lexington PERSONALS Elkhart, in 46514
beginning of year. If found please call 1609 
Handsome, 
Accurate, fast typing. Call Mrs. Her name is Kathy, is it? Is she Found: Olde Frothlngslosh 1-shlrt Donoho. 232-07.46 on your draft list? In front of Walsh Hall. Call 8126 
Lust or love, BOOK SHOP. 30,000 books and Cohort Found: Watch in Cavanaugh Hall. prints. Ralph A. Casperson Books. · Call 7837 to Identify and pay for 1303 Niles-Buchanan Road, Niles. Wild parties In Whip. N.J. over this ad. 
Hours Wed. Sat. Sun 9 to 7 or Christman break. Coors of Course. chance. Don't worry Bonita, I'll be thrul LOST: One pocket knife, between Let's Give! BP and North dining hall on Morrissey Loan Fund. $20 -150 . J. Tuesday. Great personal value. One day waiting period. One 
Please call 1333 . Reward. percent intersst. Due In 30 days. Dear Roomies, LaFortune basement. M-F 11:15-1 F you feel like It, the post-final NOTICES 
12:15. G.L. party (complet with Christman music) begins at 12:30 
Flanner Records has In stock the Typing 3SCents a page. Call Dan Thursday, or whenever you feel Best of John Lennon, Seals and 272-5549 like quitting. Crotts, Barry White, America, 
Chicago, plus the new Aerosmith, Need a ride at Christman? Wilson Dear Shannon, Crosby-Nash, Fleetwood Mac, drlveaway has cars to many Thankso tor the pot. Things of Elton Honn, Paul Simon and many destinations across the U.S. and all that nature relieve frustration and 
more. Call 1487 or come to 807 you pay tor Is gas. For Info. Call keep me happy at my desk. Flanner. Jim at 1745 -S. Hucklby 
The Notre Dame Cook Book Is a FOR RENT Margaret, perfect Christman gift for Please don't leave. We love you. 
someone special. Limited quanity Off-Campus Housing. Private 12 -292 priced at 3.50 available at Aquinas man student residence. All ac­and N.D. Boodstores. comodatlons, Including meals, TRS, 
laundry, single bedrooms. Ex­Have a great break coz Grand Oenlng 1 Dec. 3 -Dec. 6 cellent sturdy atmosphere 10 Phoenix Is walling. Just Jennifer's Upper level Scottsdale. minute walk from circle. Places remember so am II -Mouse 
Big Savings. available second semester. Call Pat 232-0550 B.B For the latest in FASHION, Call 
Get filed at the Observer party. 284-4176 Student wanted to share three Merry Christman, In .African. bedroom newley carpeted and T.C. 
Greyhound Bus to Chicago tor next remodeled house on S acre horse two Fridays. Leaves Main Circle ranch with two other students, 1 MOM: at S:4S. Call Tom at 8338 for Info. mile N. of campus. Available In 
Ti!ke care of yourself. We January call 277-08.46 mlssyou. And have a Merry Nancy babe, 
Happy Sweet 16th B. Day (as we say) from all the Cool Collegiate Co-eds! When you visit next semester, we'll celebrate! 
Love, 
Sis, Sis and the roomies 
Come cheer on the N.D. "dynamic dolphin" swin team at the Rock. Fri. 7pm, Sat. 2 pm. Go T Team GoI 
Say goodbye to the Graduate . Janie Meagh&rl She's off to Europe for tun, frolic and... 
X-mas gifts: Bob ~ a lip guard Ray . S round trip tickets to Louisville Steve . a pre-med art major Kevin . an amplifier and shower curtain J.H. -a rhlnocerous 
A.F. -food 
S.D.. Straight desigh courses 
B.A.B.. a fly to, fly back, skiing, 
skating holiday. Graciously yours In giving,
..... ? 
Lynda, Thanko tor the best year of my llfel Happy anniversary. Love, Pat 
Special Pre Christman sale. DAY BY DAY, the N.D. prayerbook for students available for Sl.oo (regular price 12.451 In dining halls next Mon. -Wed. at noon and evening meals. Ideal praoerbook. Ideal Christman gifts. 
For Rent: Off-campus tor 2nd semester? Furnished .4-bedroom house, large rooms, near Notre 
.. 

Will do typing, experienced term Christmas. Dame. Call 234-2626 For Sale; 1965 Pontiac LeMans -papers, manuscripts, ets. Call 233-Furnished apt near campus The Observer Staff good running condition. S22S. 289-8512 available 12-21-75. Utilities. 3 
adults. 272-617.4 Puka shell and Hlshe bead Attention: The Quickie is running916.4, 825 N.D. Ave. 
necklaced from the Philippines. this weekend I Buses leave circle
Piano tuning and repair. 
Escellent quality and low prices. at8:30, 9, 9:30, 10, 12, 12:30. CheckHawaiian shell necklaces-Pukas, Professionally trained without Furnished apartment. 503 W. 
posters for stops and fares.

Heishls, Paper shell etc. Call 1298 strobes. Duane Christianson. 287-Jefferson . Duplex 3 rooms. First Great for Christmas gifts. Brian or 251 B.P. 8890 __ ,{, Floor. Gas Heat.l Furnished. 289-519 Flanner 1078 .6307' 234-0596 
, ',. 

-.... , ..... ' ..................1 ........... Ill ... '" ...... io I. .... . 
r. 









Texas Tech first big test for Irish 
hv El'nif' Torriero 
When Notre Dame first an­nounced that TexasTechwould face the Irish in basketball this season, ~orne people increduously queried, 
"What? They scheduled a football 
~chool." 
Well if you don't believe Texas Tech plays basketball, just ask the pt>ople from Kansas State. In the opener for both teams the Red l{aiders stunned KSU, then in the top ten. 66-58. For those of us with ~hort memories, Kansas State is the team that finished second in the Big Eight last season while streaking to the NCAA Eastern Hegional Finals, where they were finally upended in overtime by Syracuse. As a further tune-up for the Irish. Tech rolled over Nor­thwestern Oklahoma by a 40 point margin.
"Texas Tech is a great te1'1m," warns Irish coach Digger Phelps. "They could make it to the NCAA tournament. The fans will cer­tainly see a good game Saturday." 
The main cog in the Red Raider 
... 
attack occurs in the person of 6-9 senior center Rick Bullock. The 230 pound Bullock was voted the most valuable player in the Southwest Conference last season and led the league in scoring (22.0) average and rebounding (11.0). Before being hurt in a New Year's Eve snowball fight, Bullock had played in 60 stragiht games. Further, the San Antonio native has hit over 57 per cent of his shots in his career. 
"Rick'sstrong point ," explains Tech coach Gerald Myers, "is that he has a good shooting touch for a big man. He has spurts when he rebounds well and he has improved defensively every year." 
Bullock resembles another good shooting center who used to frequent the ACC. "Bullock has the potential to be as good as John Shumate," emphasized Notre Dame assistant coach Frank McLaughlin. While Phelps ad­ded,"He has got to be one of the premier players in the country." 
In addition to Bullock, who scored 32 points versus Kansas State, a pair of 6-6 seniors occupy the forward positions. Grady Newton, the team's number two scorer and an excellent rebounder is at one wing slot. Rudy Liggins, a quick shooter compliments Newton on the other side. 
Junior Steve Dunn is the Raider quarterback. The 6-2 175 pound Dallas native started 21 games at guard last year. His backcourt teammate, junior Keith Kitchens is noted for his passing ability. 
For the first time this year the Irish will face the test of a man-to­man defense. So far Notre Dame has only seen teams with zone defenses. Yet as Valpo coach Bill Purden noted Tuesday, "We thought the way we could best stop Notre Dame was with a zone. Ironically, when we went to a man-
on-man strategy late in the first period,. we outscored them." 
With Bullock in the post and Tech playing a man-to-man defense, Tech will try to force the Irish into mistakes. But Phelps warns, "We played a lot of men against Valpo. We like to play a lot 

Bill Brink 


The Irish Eye 
.;::::::::====================:::::::===========================::...~=======:::::=:::=:=:=:=:::::=:::=:=:::=:=:::=:::::::::===========:::=:::::=:::::=:::::::::=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::=:::=Bowl picks 
Things are not quite as they should be in the bowl picture this year. Some perennial bowl regulars are missing, and some old faces have joined the lineup in new bowls, for them anyways. 
For example, there's a Big Ten team in the Orange Bowl. a Pacifie-S team in the Liberty Bowl and Notre Dame in no bowl. But the overall bowl picture is greatly improved over previous years, because top­ranked teams which have always been limited in their bowl options can now go elsewhere, and have. Also. the minor bowls have secured such highly­touted teams as Texas, USC, Arizona State. Nebraska and Florida, Instead of holding meaningless contests between unexciting teams, the minor bowls now offer major teams of much-more-than-passing interest. Several have even been picked up by national 
television. The major bowl picture, however, offers top teams 
but the match-ups are not all they could be. Woody Hayes' Buckeyes of Ohio State are sitting pretty right now. A victory over UCLA in the Rose Bowl would practically assure a national championship. Texas A&M also has a chance to come out of a major bowl undefeated, but they would probably not beat the Buckeyes in the polls. If A&M tops Arkansas tomorrow, they will face Georgia in the Cotton Bowl but a victory over the bulldogs, though they are a fin~ team. could not be overly-impressive. For that matter. a Buckeye victory over UCLA won't be either because OSU has already beaten the Bruins this year. 
If Texas A&M and Ohio State emerge from New Year's day undefeated, the argument for a college football playoff will be stronger than ever, because no one will ever know for sure. 
Elsewhere, Michigan receives small consolation for their bowl misfortunes in the past few years. Though they were legitimately deprived of the Rose Bowl bid this year by Ohio State, they will be allowed to compete in the Orange Bowl against Oklahoma. 
.Finally, there's the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans, with Penn State slated to meet Alabama. Bear Bryant is fooling no one. He wants a bowl victory so bad <he's 0-7-1 in the last eight years) that he didn't care how he got it. Declining to face a Big Eight team. he hand-picked Penn State, and he still may not get his victory. He won't impress anyone anyway. 
Here are the Irish Eye's Bowl Picks: 
Tangerinl' Bowl: (Dec. 20th> Miami of Ohio vs. South 
Carolina Miami has been impressive in the Mid­
American Conference. But Jim Carlen has done an 
excellent rebuilding job for SC, and performed well 
against tougher opponents. It will be close but look 
furM~mi~3. ' 
Libl'rty Bowl: mec. 22ndl Southern Cal vs either 
:\rkansas or Texas A&M It's just hard to believe 
John McKay will go out with five straight losses. A 
man with the class and ability of McKay deserves 
better. If Arkansas is his opponent (assume they will 
be> then he should go out with his final victory in a
• bowl, where he has won so many great games. Ricky, Bell, Vince Evans and Randy Simmrin will have to regain their scoring touch, and the defense will have to tighten up, but they can do it. Trojans by 7. Sun Bowl: (Dec. 26th> Pittsburgh vs. Kansas Pitt has to be inspired to be great, but they can really be great. Tony Dorsett is the best runner the Jayhawks will have faced all year, and Pitt's defense can be very tough. But going bysoundness,Kansas has the edge They emerged with a fine 7-4 record in the toughest conference in the country. Nolan Cromwell is superb at leading their veer offense, so look for the Jayhawks by 7. Fiesta Bowl (Dec 26th) Arizona State vs. Nebraska This may prove to be the finest bowl of the bunch. Frank Kush 'sSun Devils hold an 11-0 record and are ranked eighth in the nation. "Fast Freddie" Williams leads the way on the offense and Mike Haynes, an outstanding defensive back, anchors the defense. Nebraska is a heavyweight. though, something the Sun Devil schedule omitted this season. State will find out that WAC and Big Eight don't rhyme. Huskers by 13. Bluebonnet Bowl <Dec. 27th> Colorado vs. Texas Texas had a "good but not quite" team this year, and Colorado had a "sometimes good and never quite" squad. Earl Campbell leads a powerful Longhorn wishbone that Colorado probably won't be able to stop. The Buffaloes will make a game of it, but Texas should capture the victory. Longhorns by 10. Gator Bowl <Dec 29th) Florida vs. Maryland The Gators 9-2 record may have been worthy of a major bowl, but they like it in their home state. With Jimmy DuBose running the ball, their offense should 
should perform as it has all year , explosively. Maryland was surprising in the ACC this year, and will put up a good fight. But home state advantage slants it towards Florida. Gators bv 7. 
Peach Bowl (Dec. 31st) North Carolina State vs. West Virginia The Mountaineers played over thier heads all year, and dropped their final game to Syracuse. When it comes down to the big one, don't count on them. State's defense can be super, and if they avoid mistakes, they'll take it. Wolfpack by 7. Sugar Bowl (Dec. 31st) Alabama vs. Penn State It 
w~mld.serve ~ea~ rig~t to drop this bowl game after he did everythmg m his power ot assure a win. Joe Pate~no. is not likel.Y to be caught off guard, and he has a sohd linebacker m Greg Buttle. This year however, as opposed to the last two years, the Bear may have the better team. Richard Todd has the offense in a groove, and back Willie Shelby leads the way. Tide by 7. 
Cotton Bowl <Jan 1st> Texas A&M or Arkansas vs. 
Georgia Let's assume that the Aggies make it to 
Dallas, and then assume again that they'll emerge 
undefeated. Their defense, as evidenced in the Texas game, is fantastic, number one in the country. 
Linebacker Ed Simmonini and Cornerback Pat Thomas are All-Americans and Georgia will find out why. The Bulldogs are good, but A&M is too tough.Aggies by 10. 
Rose Bowl (Jan 1st) Ohio State vs. UCLA Though we've already seen this game once this year (in which the Buckeyes won, 41-20) it should be a little different. John Sciarra has the Bruin veer working to 
perfection, but they have to hold on to the ball. They did everything they could to give the USC game to the Trojans, and they surely can't afford to do it against the Buckeyes. Archie Griffin and Cornelius Greene won't be stopped as easily. It will be closer than before, but the result will be the same. OSU by 14. Orange Bowl (Jan. 1st> Michigan vs. Oklahoma This may turn out to be the best of the major bowls. The Wolverines will want to prove that they belong in a bowl, and Gorden Bell, Bob Lytle and receiver Jim Smith won't hurt. The Sooners are coming off their fine victory over Nebraska, and if they play like they did in that game, it should be a great battle. Make it Oklahoma by 7. 

of people. We'll do the same and still win by twenty. against Texas Tech. When we play KENTUCKY <Dec. 30 at nine or ten people a game, it wears Louisville) : This annual affair the other team down." always held in Freedom Hall at 
The Irish enter Saturday's almost the same exact date e..Jery contest i~ excellent, physi.cal y~r, ~eatures a K~ntucky squad shape. Adnan Dantley s 39 pomts which IS young and mexperienced. ve~sus Valpo gives him a 32.0 The Wildcats suffered an opening pomts-per-game average. Duck season loss to Northwestern and Williams is second to Dantley with they must face the likes of Indiana a 12.5 mark. Toby Kight paces all and North Carolina before the Irish rebounders with 18 on the year. come to Blue Grass country. 
The Irish now enter the tough UCLA (January 3 at Los part of the amazingly rigid Angeles): Rich Washington schedule. Here, then is the Marques Johnson and Andr~ scouting report of the games over McCarter return to give the Bruins semester break: another go at the national title. 
KANSAS <Dec. 8 at Though their opening season loss Lawrence l: Kansas is in sad was disheartening to new coach shape, as coach Ted Owens was Gene Bartow and his Bruins the besieged by graduation losses. The UCLA is loaded with easy pickings Jayhawks return only three until they face the test of the Irish. juniors and four sophomores. The teams will bump again, three Further, lanky forward Donnie weeks later in South Bend. Von Moore is in the. hospital with 1\lt\NIIATTAN (January 10 at pneumonia. But playing in Kansas the ACCl: The Jaspers are also is always toug~ and t.he Jayhawks suffering from the graduation day have revenge m their eyes after blues, as coach Jack Powers must being eliminated by ND in the fill a void left by six lettermen. NCAAs last year. The Jaspers will find the going 
IND.IANA <De~. 11 at to.ug~ in New York City and they Bloommgton l: If D1gger's crew will fmd more of the same in South thought Kansas was bad, wait til Bend. they see the Hoosiers. IU is riding PITTSBURGH <January 12 at a tidal wave to the NCAAtourney Pittsburgh>: The Irish are still and Notre Dame will have to play a smarting from an overtime loss in flawless defense to stay with them. the civic arena last January. Pitt Kent Benson dominates the middle lost lop scorer Kirk Bruce through and hjs play in the UCLA game graduation and the fourth leading was outstanding. scorer, Mel Bennett, left for the Scott May, a consensus All-ABA.But the Panthers are ex­American, performed magical pected to have a competitive team. feats against the Bruins. Indiana The answer to the obviious has not played since their con-question --No. Tony Dorsett does vincing triumph over UCLA. No not play basketball. doubt they will be itching to take to Tomorrow's game can be viewed the floorboards. on Channel 16 with Chic Hearn 
ST. FRANCIS <Dec. 13 at the doing the play-by-play on the ACCl: The Irish could play this Spoelstra-Notre Dame basketball team in a snowstorm, at 4:00a.m., network. The game may also be without Adrian Dantley,and with heard on WSBT, WNDU and their hands tied behind their back, is at 1:00 p.m. 

Freshman Bruce Flowers will have to help stop Tech's Rich Bullock. 



