
un1versity of noire dame sf. mary's college 
Thursday, July 10, 1975 

Ever since MiJry and Joseph made their late-night trek to Nazareth,the problem of where to go for a meal after midnight has plagued mankind. To help those trapped in South Bend, several ())server staffers sacrifeced their cast-iron stomachs to search for the great 24-hour wonder. Find out where the best place in South Bend is located. Story on page three. 

"Catholics owe a lot to this country. It has been very good to them." Father Hesburgh has proposed that Catholics manage a fund-raising drive during the Bicentennial, in an effort to educate those who are presently in the same situation that many poor, immigrant Catholics were in when the parochial school was at its peak. Speaking to the Pastoral Ministry Program, Father Hesburgh outlined the main areas of President Ford's effort to fight World Hunger. Story on page four. 

The Fieldhouse is going to pots! (sorry, couldn't resist the pun.) A Ceramics Workshop, featuring four of the country's most ac­complished artists working in clay, has moved Into the Old Fieldhouse for a two-week stay. Forty potters are throwing and baking clay to their tearts content. Story oo page five. 

r--------------------­
2 the observer Thursday, July 10, 1975 

SPECIALS ON CABINETS_ AND PANELING KITS WITH THIS COUPON~ J5% DISCOUNT ON
~GJUU V8TI(f 
PANELING KITS 288-0664 M·F 9 to 7 Sat. 9 to 5 
5 J J E. Colfax Ave. So. Bend 


STEAK N' EGGS 
OPEN 24 HOURS 
. 
TO SATISFY YOUR MUNCHIES ALL DAY & ALL NIGHT 
Steak & Eggs Hash Browns Only $2.49 Toast 

Choice of Juice 
(STUDENTS! PART TIME HELP NEEDED) 
614 N. Michigan So. Bend 233-0866 
MEN-WOMEN 
Don't grab the first job that comes along. 
Be choosy. Look around for a job that's as good as you are. And if you look in the right place you won't have to look long. 
We have over 300 good jobs. Electronics, Construction, Data Processing, Law Enforce­ment, Food Preparation, Welding, Photog­raphy, Missile Maintenance, Communications, Heavy Equipment, Radio Repair, Radar Oper­ation, and many others. 
You don't need experience. If you qualify, we'll guarantee you training in the job you choose. And we'll pay you while you learn. 
Call Army Opportunities 
232-1616 
Join the people who've joined the Army. 
An Equal Opportuni!y Employer 

Lunches: 
Monday thru Friday 11 :30-2:15 
Dinner:· 
Monday thru Thursday 5:00-11 :00 Friday and Saturday 5:00-12:00 Sunday 4:00-10:00 
WE HONOR CHARGE CARDS 55285 U.S. 31 NORTH 272-5478 


Insights ...... . 
In Benton County, Washington. a sheriff's and other national crises have made ex­assistant was assigned to spruce up the position of a (Communist) conspiracy a lot grounds around the sheriff's office. easier." 
Kelly O'Brien tilled the soil and planted flower seeds. When the green shoots finally appeared, 18 marijuana plants were found * 
among the flowers. A spokesman said a prankster apparently planted the pot. 
The Treasury department may rein­troduce the $2 bill by the end of this year, according to Treasury Sec. William E. * Simon. Simon said in a letter to Rep. Benjamin Rosenthal <D-N.Y.) that the Bureau of
Advisors to President Ford have ap­Printing and Engraving is preparing aparently convinced him to avoid meeting preliminary design for a $2 bill usingwith Russian author Aleksandr Solzhenit­Bicentennial themes. 
syn, who is currently visiting the United It has been rumored in Washington thatStates.Mr. Ford refused invitations from the $3 bill may soon follow, with Presidentlabor leaders and from two consecutive Nixon on the face of the bill.
Republican senators to meet with Mr. Solzhenitsyn. Though the White House had 
Canada now has *its own superhero!

o(ficially refused to state that the President Captain Canuck has hit the newstands inwill not meet with the Russian author, White Canada this week.
House staffers are saying privately that The first story-set in the 1980's-portraysforiegn policy advisors told the President Canada as the most powerful nation in thethat a meeting with Mr. Solzhenitsyn would world, the United States clearly as second­be inconsistant with the policy of detente. 
rate. Even in the 1980's though, the chief threat to world peace remains the nasty communists and their bid for world domination. Luckily, Captain Canuck (CC for short) and his Canadian International
* 

Security Organization <CISO> are preparedRobert Welch, founder and president of to fight the threat. the John Birch Society, said Americans no Dressed in a red and white superoutfitlonger consider his organization far out. "In speckled with maple leaves, Captain
the past," he said' "when we tried to tell the Canuck is the epitome of North American public we were scared to death (of com­"Good", all for free enterprise and the munism), the public admonished us with Canadian way. The chief bad guy looks 
assurance that the CIA and the Constitution remarkably like Lenin, and his minions woullook after us but Watergate. Vietnam would 
*** 


Campus Briefs .... 
as Indiana Democratic officials,
Mock ROTC
have been invited to address students during the week-longconvention campaign preview in Notre 
Commander
Dame's Stepan Center. The quadrennial political exercise wasto be held originated in 1940 by Dr. Paul retires after Bartholomew, professor emeritus of government and international
at N.D. thirty years
studies, and he will be serving his tenth term as faculty advisor of the conclave that has often gained Two announced candidates for attention of the national news 
Col. Joseph the Democratic presidential media. L. Falvey, chairman and professor nomination in 1976 have indicated A junior in the College of Arts of aerospace studies and U.S. Air 
preliminary intentions to par­and L,etters, Mark R. Frieden, Force ROTC Detachment Com­
ticipate in a Bicentennial mock North Manchester, Ind., is mander at the University of Notre convention of the political party on serving as press secretary and Dame since 1972, has retired from the University of Notre Dame head of a planning committee for the Air Force after more than 30 campus next February. the campus convention. Rules and years of commissioned service. Assurances have been received credentials committees will be from Georgia Governor Jimmy activated, a party platform Carter and Senator Henry "Scoop" adopted, and candidates for the In retirement ceremonies 
Jackson of Washington. presidential and vice presidential conducted at the University June 
Other national leaders, as well positions nominated. 30, Col. Falvey was presented the Air Force Meritorious Service Medal by Maj. Gen. Eugene L. 
Hudson, USAF director of logistics
A Delightful Evening Of Entertainment 
plans and programs.

TUESDAY THRU SUNDAY DINE AT 
Col. Falvey is a master

THE GOLDEN DOOR 
navigator and received his B.S. from Rensselaer Polytechnic
Dinners from $3.50 
Institute and M.S. from the Air Force Institute of Technology, both 
in electrical engineerine:.

See And Hear The Musical ... 
"LinLE MARY SUNSHINE" 
His previous assignments in­(Jeanette MacDonald -Nelson Eddy Spoof) 
clude deputy chief of staff, civil engineering, in Vietnam; chief of
STARRING DICK POWELL JR. 
the Infrasonics Evaluation
With A Professional Cast of 24 
Division at the Air Force Technical Applications Center; chief of the
AT THE TIN TREE 
engineering and analysis branch of
Michigans Newest Equity TheatQr 
the 4000th Aerospace Applications 
natb fr• SUS After Show Retum To 
Group; systems analyst at 8th Air 

"Door" For Dancing 
Force Strategic Air Command, and electronic engineer at the Air
RESERVATION CALL 616-469-4613 DOES IT ALL 
Development Center, Wright­Patterson AFB, Ohio. Col. Falvey
194 & U.S. 12 NEW BUFFALO-MICHIGAN 
also performed many navigation
OPENIN.G JULY 8th MERCEDES McCAMBRIDGE 
duties throughout the United
IN THE MARX BROTHERS MUSICAL 
States, Canada, Greenland, the


MINNIE'S BOY'S 
Arctic, the Atlantic Ocean and Europe. 
-:If ?f-• -'t)('­


~------------------------------------~----~~---------------------------------------------------------------­
....~, 
. r· •

4 ... ' 
Thursday, July 10, 1975
• 
the observer 






aradise:a good 24-hour restaurant 
~

But is there one in South Send • 
jukeboxes, between the country and western freaks and the rock and roll kids. It's pretty interesting to watch the place after you put on "You Know My Name (Look up my number)" by the Beatles. 
McDonald's doesn't hold a candle to this place. Or an arch, for that matter. 
They have some sort of legal suit going against Coca-eola now, and there is a little notice on the bottom of the menu that says 
"I won't say anything against coke, but it does remind me of another four-letter word." 
Just great. Denny's .......... The food here is always good; though somewhat overpriced. The
by Frt'd (iraver those places that God has forgotten about. waitresses are friendly, (if they aren't, your Editor-in-Chief 

It's pretty tacky, as well. coffee is free. Nice compensation, eh?) and The help can be friendly or despicable, the atmosphere is something like an ex­
"WI' Nl'vt'r ('lost'." 

depending on their mood. It's a good idea to pensive dentist's waiting room. Muzak fills Think about it. 
ask them how they feel before you sit down. the air.
Sort of puts you on the fringe of reality Compared with McDonald's: The arches here, don't it? Well, that's what you get for are looking better all the time. 

I always feel like I've sinned after eating up till three or four in the morning. 
Tht> J & .J Grill ......... A visit here is 

at Denny's, precisely because this place
I've been a night person for most of my like a visit to the Outer Limits. I haven't 

seems to be in such a culture of non-sin. It's
As such, I've eaten in my share, if not been here once in the last two months when 

just too clean and pure. Too much of the
of all-night restaurants. I feel the place hasn't been occupied by one loud 

corporate image of what a restaurant
drunk, two very seedy looking old men, a 

should be.
South Bend, perhaps out of the strange robot-like waitress and three or four freaksof power I get from walking about outside, asking for money or dope.
others are sleeping. 

The food here is good. It's the atmosphere Compared to McDonald's: Well, ZIare over ten all-night restaurants in : here that will turn your stomach. (Just the conceive of McDonald's as being Ray Kroc's Bend. They range from the dismal to 
Some of them are an ad­opposite from the Steak and Egg.) personal vision, and I like the place for that I used to like this place, because I thought reason. Denny's is the idea of some group of 
lure inot the nether-world. Others lack it had a healthy dose of reality. Now I pe~ple, probably Madison Avenue types, and stain of adventure, but make up for it in realize that was like saying something had a IS JUSt too sterile. Though it may seem in-Still others provide healthy dose of cancer. This place is the . credible, McDonald's has more Reality than atmosphere nor quality. 

seventh circle of hell. Denny's. In presenting this guide, I realized that Compared with the Golden Arches: Well, some sort of standard would have to be set, put it this way. I know people who get sick The College Education .......... The best 
thing I can tell you about this place is that
something upon which to base the when they watch the typical family scene at 

discussion. For lack of something more McDonald's and they'd really enjoy you should go here before you leave South
the Bend.

common to us, let's use McDonald's. J&J. On the other hand .... Make sure you're It just opened up, and it is the finest I like McDonald's, leaving aside its ready for this before you go in. 
all-night restaurant in South Bend, if not within a fifty-mile radius. (I'm playing it
terrifyingly pervasive advertising cam­The Golden Chef ........ A favorite of South paign and the glassy-eyed stare of its help. Bend's Senior Citizens, the Golden Chef safe with that fifty-mile bit. What's there? 
Gary, maybe?) 
It is dependable, clean, speedy and efficient. comes to life about six o'clock in the mor­McDonald's is also boring, after two or ning, when the old folks come in for break­

The food here is excellent. They serve the
three consecutive visits. The decor, which fast. They all gather around the same 

best cheeseburgers in South Bend (not
has been designed to be just a step above tables, eat the same things, talk about the 

machine-made patties, but hand made, with 
sterile, becomes monotonous. The music day's news and, in general, pass the time. 

all sorts of stuff in the "•everything," andJ
becomes highly irritating. You have the The food here is good. The prices are 

melt the cheese on the pattie.) The chili is 
irrepressible urge to throw your two all-beef reasonable, and every once in a while they 

very good, and the entire breakfast menu is
patties, special sauce, lettuce, cheese, have a special. 

highly commendable.
pickles, onions and sesame seed bun The building used to house one of South through the window. Bend's oldest houses of Prostitution. As far The waitresses here are the most in-But it's okay for a visit every once and a as I have been able to surmise, this business telligent in South Bend. We had one the while. has been discontinued in the building. other night who had been to Europe. That's 
So, with McDonald's as the standard for Compared to McDonald's: For breakfast, something you won't find anywhere else. judgement <not good, not bad, just this place is good. If it's just a hamburger The jukebox rivals Shirley's classic medium>, let us set ourselves to the task of or some other food, it's not so hot. . selection. investigating South Bend's all-night The Koffee Kup ......... this place ad­restaurants. vertises "Eggs any time." The eggs are 
The atmosphere is clean and bright, but
<The listing is from worst ot best.) good, no matter what you try. The decor is 

not sterile.
Cafe dt' Ia Nuit ..........Upon visiting this fairly plain, mostly counter and stools. The 

I'd even go here during the day, if I'm up
establishment, I ordered a cup of tea and coffee is good. 
then.
was warned by a friend not to try anything Compared to McDonalds: Much better. so exotic. The waiter brought my tea, after nunkin' Donuts .......... What's there to an overly long period of time, and the water say? Everybody has been to one of these was on the likewarm-eold side. I sent it sometime in their life. Pink and brown back. The waiter brought me a warm cup of decor, counter and stools. Flourescent water. I told him how water had to be hot, to lights. Donuts and coffee. expand the tea leaves and all that, and he headed for the sink. I told him to skip it. 


The only interesting thing I know about
The food there is, to be kind, very poor. 
these places is that they don't always make It's the little touches that count, like cooking the~r donuts fresh every four hours, and the the hamburgers all the way or frying the cla1m that the donuts are made by the finest hash browns. The Cafe misses these little donut.chefs can be disproven by watching intouches. 
the wmdow when one of those high schoolThe atmosphere is non-existant. There kids is working.
are booths and tables and stools at the This place is the all-night equivalent tocounter, a jukebox in the rear and pinball McDonald's.
machines at the front. .The walls are two
covered with boring posters. They play the Tht' White House ......... There are 
White Houses in the South Bend area one inradio all the time. The lighting makes you Mishawaka and one in Roseland :'up onfeel like you're sitting in a garage. 
31," as they say. They both have the sameCompared to McDonalds: Nolo con-menu, and the food is pretty much of thetendre. The Golden Armpits win again. 
same quality <good).
Tht> Steak and Egg Kit· chen ......... Formerly known as "The Toddle House," this restaurant, located in the Personally, I like the White House more Travelodge on 31, may very well have commonly known as Shirley's. The at­changed its name to escape some of the mosphere there is tremendous. The infamy connected with it. restaurant is on a corner lot and it is mostly 
The food is on a level with the Cafe de Ia counter and stools, with a f~w booths on the Nuit. The decor is somewhat better, but one side.They have a great jukebox. I think that can't escape the feeling that this is one of there's some sort of war going on with these 
1 


the observer Thursday, July 10, 1975 
I Lawrence and Lee's 

Hesburgh calls for parochial
I INHERIT 
1--THE WIND 



w ND 

education revival in U.S.
SMC 
~~:::;.~a~:~h0~i~~day 

were not allowed to try on clothes the "forseeable future, tne next
I 

by Fred Graver before they bought them, for fear five or ten years," said Hesburgh. 11, 12 $2.75
·I 
July 4, 5, at 8:00 P.M. 

Editor-in-Chief that they would be contaminating President Ford has agreed to the them," Fr. Hesburgh said fact that the world needs at .least
UTILE THEATRE 
I 

Speaking to the Pastoral "Opening public facilities was a ten million tons of food per year
THEATRE
I St. Mary's College Phone: 284-4176 
I
AIR CONDITIONED.
I 
I 
Sauer Braten Served 

Hans Haus 
2803 South Michigan Street-Phone 291-5522 
German FOQd Our Specialty 
~reated with Old World Atmosphere. Specializing m German and American Foods. 
• ~th Bend's Finat Banquet Rooms 
• The Alpine & Bavarian Rooms Open 10:30 ll.m. to 10:30 p.m.-Closed Sundays and Holld_ays 
1~--------------------------This Weeks Special... I
INSTANT cREDIT 
I DICK'S e F~ont end I
I J 1~"" "' alignment I 
I . ~ ~~~~~~ only $8.95 I 7 e!J.coRsv oi~~'b'o' ON All American cars I 
~ WRECKER & -I 
~ ROAD SERVICE 10 PERCENT DISCOUNT 'I
11 
z TO N.D. AND I.U. I 
MOTOR TUNE-UP ~ s T u D E N T s A N D I BRA~;::~ICE ..... DIAL FACULTY. I ALIGNMENT :\10~.-SAT. 7am-llpm I 
Dick Kruk • Owner 234_0707 1102 So. Dend Ave. SUN. !I am-9pm I 
South Bend, Ind. 46617 (Discounts not applicable to I specials.) I 



L--------------------­

--1 
THROWING A PARTY?? HELPING YOU IS OUR BUSINESS 
S OF THE HA·NDIEST SPOTS IN TOWN 
1. HANDY SPOT PARTY SHOPPE 3. ROSELAND PARTY SHOPPE 
1A26 Mishawaka Ave. 113 DixieWoy N. 
1.. N. IRONWOOD PARTY SHOPPE 4. GOLDEN FLASK PARTY SHOPPE 
-413 Hickory Rd. at McKinley172.5 N. Ironwood 
5. PARTY SHOPPE SOUTH 
• WINES • GOURMET FOODS .C.COI S. Michigan of Ireland 
• 
LIQUORS • PARTY SUPPLIES 

• 
COLD BEER 


"II it's available, we will get it for you." 

FREE DELIVERY 

287-7744 
OF SOUTH BEND 

Ministry program on Tuesday big move, but opening the vote was just for "crisis food." Crisis food is night, Father Theodore Hesburgh, the most fundamental thing that used to aid countries which are University President, proposed a was done in the sixties." suffering ; such as drought, cro program by which the Catholic After the brief review of the ailure or other conditions. Of these people of the United States would progress of the sixties, Father ten million tons of food, Ford has "give back something that we owe Hesburgh gave an analysis of the agreed to the proposal that half of this country." present. He stated that there are this food should come from the 
In a question and answer session three difficult hurdles to get across United States. in the library lounge, Hesburgh at present; housing, education and The second area is concerned said that he felt that the American employment. "I call these the with the world food reserve. "At Catholic people could collect over irradicable trio. We have to break present," Hesburgh noted, "we a billion dollars for the education the circle somewhere. If you live have enough food in cans, on the of people within the nation's cities in a bad neighborhood, you're not shelves, in storage, to feed the and poverty areas. going to get a good education. And world for twenty-three days, if all 
"For years, the Catholic school if you don't ha-ve a good education, other fllod was wiped out. Ten system has run superb schools you can't get a good job. If you years ago we could have supported where leading educators said you don't have a good job, you can't the world for three or four mon­can't even run decent schools, " live in a good house." Hesburgh ths." Hesburgh commented. Under the continued the examples, F·r. Hesburgh reported that specula~ive plan, Catholics would· illustrating the fact that the circle President Ford has agreed to a be asked to contribute money could begin at any step. proposal that would place one­towards the education of "those He commented on the loss of hundred million tons of food grains who need it the most." civil rights leaders in the seven-in the world food reserve. If there 
"It's not asking people to love ties. "They either got too radical, is a good crop all over the world the blacks or the Chicanos or the left the country or got shot at. this year, "then we will be on our Indians, even though God asks us We've been abandoned by many way to getting a better reserve." to." Hesburgh said, "It's just liberal leaders, and there isn't The third and most far-reaching paying back Jsoine of thel · much of the rationale on the fact area of concern is the mobilization things that Catholics have that the civil rights problem has of the global ability to grow food, received from this country. And "moved notrh." He used Boston as expecially through small farmers. we have gotten much from here." an example of when the upper Speaking of this re-evaluation of Hesburgh mentioned the use of class liberal, who "found it easy to the global agricultural concerns, volunteer help within the neigh· expose problems in the south," not Hesburgh spoke of a proposal by borhoods where the schools would dump · the problem on the middle which American experts on be located, moving into already class Agriculture would approach the existant buildings and working Looking towards the future, third-world and fourth-world without the help of the federal Father Hesburgh noted that "it's nations, extending their knowlege government. "The only thing we going to be uphill --more so in the and assistance in helping the small would ask the federal government next years. We have to push farmers of those nations to to do is to keep out of out way. harder on political participation become more productive. "We "It would be a good way to do and education." will work with the poorest of the something for the bicentennial." World Food Situation Assessed poor. They're the on~s that need the help. We aren't gomg to worry In other remarks, Hesburgh about the millionaires, about the
Civil Rights Progress Reviewed ~ddressed himself to the present people who won thousands of 
Hesburgh began by addressing world food situation. "It is a acres." himself to a question about the different situation today than it Hesburgh concluded his session current state of the civil rights was even a year ago.' Fr. by reminding the audience that movement. • Hesburgh outlined three main "America is a microcosm of the 
Assessing the advances of the areas which he has discussed with whole world. If we can do it here, it sixties, Hesburgh commented that President Ford as means of would be a marvelous example for the civil rights gains in that decade alleviating the food crisis. the whole world." were "a step forward, greater than The first area is concerned with 
any other civilized nation has ever taken, towards giving people a greater chance, a greater op­portunity, to gain their freedom and dignity.'' Looking over tha achievements of the past, and the rapid rate at which they had come about, Hesburgh told the group that, "when you talk to young black students about ten or fifteen years ago, they think you're talking about the Garden of Eden." 
"It seems so long ago that blacks could not go into hotels, could not use the same water fountain that whites used, that black women 

I I
~--------------------------------------. 





II Cavalier II 
304 E. Vistala St.. BristoL Pia. 141-4542

iI Camera II
I 
:··--··.................w:~ ·~:t<""~~·· ..········
I Scottsdale Mall : ~~;;r·············· 
I I 
Y~UR

! next to 1 
Bishop's Buffet 
BACK
1 1 
I 0 pen Till I PACKING 
I I
i 9 pm Eveningsl lt NEEDS
.L

1 5 pm Sunday 1 
I I 233-8383
I Camera I: SIERRA SPORTS 
.
2216 MIAMI ..
I and Darkroom Supplies I~ ..
SOUTH BEND, IN .• 
.............................................:
··--------------------------------------~ :........ 
T~h~u~r~sd~a~v·~J~_v~l_o_,l_t7_s.. _____________t~h~e~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r______ 5 
Ceramics workshop offers artists 
.''fabulous experience~~ 
Andy Praschak Associate Editor 
The Old Fieldhouse on the Notre Dame campus is going to pot -­ceramics pots, that is. It is the site for the Ceramics Workshop, headed by Bill Kremer of the University Art Department. Visiting artists as well as teachers, students and professional potters from all over the country are at­tending the workshop which runs from July 7-18. 
The main goal of the workshop is to offer experienced participants an opportunity to work with visiting artist for two weeks of intensive involvement in ceramics, according' to Kremer. He said that visiting artists and participants will work together to develop a working ceramic environment within the large space of the Fieldhouse, with all facilities and rna terals being provided by the Notre Dame Art Department. 
"This is the first time a workshop of this type has ever been offered in ceramics," Kremer said. Warren Mackenzie, one of the four visiting artists noted that it is the first time he has ever heard of a workshop where so many artists and instructors have been assembled to work together for this period of time. 
One of the students joked that the only difference between the in­structors and students was that one was getting payed for it and the other was paying for it. 


"This workshop is a fabulous experience; the first time one of these has ever been done," said Mackenzie, an art teach~r in Minnesota. "When I can't get away from teaching, I'm at the U of Minnesota," he said. He noted that this workshop was different from most 'others where "some hot shot comes in, lectures and nothing much ever gets done." 
Kathy Williams, a Jr. High School teacher from Massachusetts pointed out that she heard about the workshop at the National Conference on Education for Ceramic Arts held earlier this 
year in Philadelphia. Her main purpose in coming to Notre Dame was to get away from the pressures of family life for two weeks and spend it working solely on the ceramic arts. "I've had it up to here with academia; it takes up all your creativity just trying to teach," she said . 
A senior at Bennington College, Elana Herzog noted that she also heard about the workshop at the Conference in Philadelphia "My main reason in coming here was to leave the college environment and work with people from all diffenent oarts of the country," she said. 
To supplement the working 
experience, a program of seminars 
slide lectures and an exliibition by 
the artist in residence is scheduled. 
Don Reitz was shirtless, dressed 
in clay covered blue jeans and 
working on the potters wheel. "If I 
don't like this part here at the top, I 
can cut it off," he told a group of 
eight students who had assembled 

MOTORCYCLE OWNERS 
CHECK THESE RATES! 
12&-200cc  SJ& 'P~r Year Full Cov..,rage  
201-360cc  Pe< Year · sg5 Full Cov.>roge  
361-500cc  SJJJ  Per Year Full Cover6ge  
501-750cc  SJ4S Pe~ Full Year Coverage  


Abov.-rate1 ore based on new b1kes., loner 1 rates for bikes over I 8 mo old 
Complete protection by
PETE CLARK 
INSURANCE AGENCY 
to watch an expert at work. "All the visiting artists are known nationwide," said Kremer. Reitz shaped the pot into at least eight different designs before he arrived at a shape that suited him. 
Steve Kemenyffy, another visiting artist, explained that he did not work on the wheel but preferred to work with larger objects, as he proudly pointed to a five foot ceramic structure he had created that day. "The space factor plus the cost are the reasons a workshop like this has never 
been done before," he added.  He  
noted  that  the  Fieldhouse  is  an  
ideal facility  for  it.  "When  we  

work in a smaller space, each artist tends to be influenced too much by the other, " he said. Kemenyffy teaches at Edin­borough College during the uear. "The people here come from all over the United States yet they are all united by a common bond ---we all like to work in clay," he said. 
Kremer pointed out that the entire workshop was being held on a very free schedule and yet he hoped that alot would be ac­complished by the end of the two weeks. "Every day the Fieldhouse will bteome more filled with in­teresting works." he said. 
The workshop which costs around $150 for the two weeks, is enrolled in by forty students. "There's always somebody working in the Fieldhouse because of the relatively short period it lasts," he noted. "I can't stress enough the convenience of the Fieldhouse for purposes such as this. I really hope the University doesn't continue the discussion of tearing it down," he said. At the end of the two week period there will be a critique of all the works by the visiting artists. 


N NiOW APPEARI~G I = IAN i 
f''''''CHECK'OUT''''''l 
i HOPS N' SPIRITS! 
D I I QUAIL I,5 u
I THI~. "V'iEKS SPECIAL I 
~IIIIIIII'IIII'IIIIIIIDIIIIIIIUIII-IIIIIIIIUIIIII..i
16 PACK OF COKE IN CANS 99¢ I 
~ I 
THE WHITE HOUSE
! FOUR POPULAR BEERS I 
WITH DAILY SPECIALS­
I I
AT FOUR .JPECIAL PRIC.tS 

I, WE SELL KEGS AT THE CHEAPEST~ 
~u~~~=YWE~.~~~~~~: ~~~~~.:VN" 
~ PRICE'IN TOWN ~ 
~ ~ THURSDAY "PITCHER BEER NIGHT'! 812 E. LASALLE AVE. I SUNDAY "LADIES NIGHT" 
1104 Mishawaka AwL 

~ ,I 
.._br_rann_m_M_t_tP_h._2_a9--7-21_.3 .~._..,...,.~!!f!.l_•..._,.~ ---·l:iiil-iii2iii8iill3•9..aiiNiiii.1115•t•h-S•t•.;;;;;;;N~IL;;E;:S::=d 
-----­ -­ ~­ --~-­ 
the observer  Thursday, July 10, 1975  
u  rider  


Destiny's twins •• Kissinger and Schlesinger 


The issue of tactile nuclear warfare has returned to prominence in an ironic way. Back in the 1960's, many would have ex­pected this debate to seize the nation if Henry Kissinger ever reached a position of power. Kissinger made his name with the 
praise of tactile nuclear weaponry in a doctrine of limited war. He spent years living down the "Doctor Strangelove" reputation he earned by such teachings. 
So here he is, presiding over all our foreign policy, and the old spectre rises again, according to expectation. Yet, strange to say, the tactical nuke theme has not been spreading from Kissinger's own centers of power, the White House and the State Department. It comes from the arguments, memos, and press statements of 
the Pentagon __ the secretary of defense, a colleague-rival who seems to haunt the Kissinger career. 
James Schlesinger and Henry Kissinger 
seem to have been whimsically twinned by 
destiny. Taking parallel yet different 

The similarities in their careers are striking. Both graduated summa cum laude from Harvard in the same year (1950), and went on to Harvard Ph.D.'s (Kissinger in 1954, Schlesinger in 1956). 
Both came from Jewish backgrounds, but were heavily influenced by the militant Christianity of the cold war period. An article in the new issue of "Moment" magazine shows the influence of postwar religiosity on all of Kissinger's work at Harvard. Schlesinger actually converted to the Lutheran faith. 
Both were professors with an Ivy League background but a Republican bias, men whose academic activities gained them political influence -in hawkish circles. Each rose by service in the foundation world of advisers--Schlesinger by way of RAND and Kissinger by way of the Rockefel!er Com­mission. . . . 
Both ~eached pos1tlo~s ..of ~1gh P,o:wer und_er NI~on as acade~mc outsiders m a 
routes, they have reached rival eminences Iregtme distrustful of mtell_ectuals. where they need each other, yet need to ' Of c_ourse,_ ther~ _are differences, to~. resist each other. Schlesmger IS retJrmg, a devoted family 
art b u c:hwa I d ~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! All the news that fits, almost seriausly! falks 
The main test of news is whether or not it is out of the ordinary. Unfortunately most of the stories being printed these days are no longer surprising to anyone. In the dog days of summer, people wonder why the papers spend so much time on multinational company corruption, CIA wrongdoing, government wiretapping and congressional foot-dragging, since none of these events is news any more. _ 
These are the stories that would be news if they ever happened. 
WASHINGTON--Secretary of Defense James Schlesinger said today that the Soviets were dismantling missiles and there was no longer any reason for the United States to build new weapons man during Kissinger's.days as· a histronic 1 "swinger." Schlesinger has specialized in just that area Kissinger finds most resistant to him --economics. Moreover, while Kissinger was trying to live down his hawkish reputation and to boast of detente, Schlesinger has been more consistent in his hard-line policies. 

The similarities and the differences both seem to push these men toward an unwilled struggle. Kissinger, as the nominal master, is silently rebuked by the consistency of Schlesinger's rigidities. The first major clash between them came during the Yom Kippur war in the Mideast. 
But other conflicts have been shaping themselves for some time now --over new weapons, arms limits, anddetentes. And now Schlesinger has raised the most em­harassing issue out o{ Kissinger's past --the idea of tactical nuclear warfare. 
During the Middle Eastern war, Kissinger seemed to use Schlesinger as a scapegoat, saying the obstacles to rearming Israel had all come from the Pentagon. This was a dangerous ploy. It looked as if Kissinger meant to shift some of the IsraPli 
systems. "The Pentagon has enough money for everything it needs and we are asking Congress to withhold any supplimental funds as 
•PEAR. RUNNING POG,
it would only be a waste of money." 
SINCE I lAST ti/ROJ0 
LOS ANGELES, Calif.--Northrop Aviation announced a new 
I HIIVC IJCEN 7l?AN5­
contract with Saudi Arabia for the delivery of 100 F-5 fighter 
~W7H&PR6
planes. Company officials said the Saudi Arabian military chose 
MINISTRY OF CP/ICAT!ON. H 
Northrop because it was the only company who did not try to bribe 
them with under-the-table "commissions." A Saudi Arabian 
minister said, "Accepting bribes is against the Koran, and no self­
respecting Arab minister would ask for a gratuity in exchange for a 
military hardware contract." 
HOUSTON, Tex.--The American Petroleum Institute turned 
down an offer by the U.S. government to deregulate petroleum and 
gas. A spokesman said, "Most of our members are making 
tremendous profits as it is, and it would be unfair to the American 
people to take advantage of the energy crisis at this time. We 
believe the economic health of the country comes first and, while 
we appreciate the government's concern that oil prices are too low, 
we'd rather see that there is enough fuel for everybody at prices the 
average person can afford." 
aJMKAPES/
MOBILE, Ala.--Gov. George Wallace told a group of foreign 
7!JOAY tv& /(//1.-L
newspapermen that in his opinion the United States did the right 
aJNSI/JtR 71£
thing when they fought the Germans and Japanese in World War II. 
HI5~CAL.
"We had no choice," the governor said, "and I would hate to think 
PIAlECTIC/
what the world, would be like today if Hitler and Tojo had won. Of 

/ CAN! 
course, we· couldn't have done it alone. Thank God, the Russians 

G07l:J 
were on our side." 

7H£ 
8ATH­
WASHINGTON--Sen. Teddy Kennedy said today that he, is a 

~CXJM?
candidate for President in 1976. "All this talk about me not run­ning is pure foolishness. The Democratic Party has a lot of good men. but I can't see myself supporting any of them. I'm the best 

"" 
man for the job, and I wish the press would stop saying I'm not interested in the Presidency as it's hurting my fund-raising campaign." 
NEW YORK CITY--Mayor Abe Beame called a press conference today to announce that New York City has a surplus of $2 billion. "I intend to use the money to beef up the police force and fire department as well as add extra days for garbage collection. I als.o intend to pay off the city's debt. I want New York to become the model for the rest of the country. Thanks to understanding municipal unions, this city has a balanced budget." 
CAMBODIA--Cambodian naval units seized an American freighter in international waters last night. When informed of this at four in the morning, President Ford said, "So what? We have plenty of other ships and don't really need it. Don't wake me up again!» 
WASHINGTON--Henry Kissinger told a press conference today that most of the mistakes made ·in foreign policy over the past six years were his fault. After detailing where he had gone wrong, he said, "I guess I'm not a very good secretary of state after all." 

pressure on him as a Jew over to another American in the foreign policy area who had ..Jewish antecedents. The dispute sizzled through long issues of "Commentary," where one noted correspondent accused Schlesinger of " hiding while Israel was in peril." The dispute still poisons the at­mosphere between the State and Defense Department, between America and Israel, and between Schlesinger and Kissinger. 
Whether Schlesinger intended it or not, the debate he has begun on the use of tac­tical nukes heightens the pressures inherited from the Middle Eastern conflict. Itputs Kissinger in a very difficult situation. 
Is he to repudiate his administration's own secretary of defense? Or must he take up again the burden of all those old Doctor Strangelove jokes? If he does, how will he square that with his program of detente? Kissinger, while pretending to be a dove on Vietnam, was actually a secret hawk. Must he scream like a hawk in public not, in order to work as a secret dove? 








DOOIBSBUBY 
fJ# Gt3'!4«~­
"me WORK 15 VERY /Nm!?£5TIN6. 
I HJIV~ Jl/ST STARTEf) 7CAOI­
/N6 A R£-Ea/CATION S&MINAR. 
7lJ A CLASS Or RJR/1&1< 
P&TTY BOUKG&OIS/£. '1 
ANYMOR& tv.lfm< Fl6HTS, A-VPHMIJS AREa?NNA 
I ROl-L-! 
Thursday, July 10, 1975 the observer 7  
James Reston on Women's Liberation willsJournalists are often told th11t they should qarr'tbe "responsible. That usu~llr means vice president admitted to the senators politics. That is the way he breaks virgin type of the new liberation being talked they should be silly, like James Reston of involved that he had been wrong. So much territory. The only man who is not an ex-about. Both were formedlinearlier molds the New York Times. It means they should for the charts. courtier in the list is Edward Bennett and were accepted as links with th~ take politicians seriously. Even take them, But when Reston went to interview Williams , who made ;1is name in the founding generation--of decolonizers of God save the mark, at their own measure. Rockefeller during the oil shortage, he was ~cCarthy days and was last s~en proving. India, of pioneers in Israel. Their ages and One's face must be granite to be kept bowled over by a modern-art triangle on the his ~oncern for th,e .)emocratJc part~ by past connections were more important. than straight in such circumstances. And the nearest easel, meant to prove that the oil gettJ~g the world s youngest Republican their sex. They were survivors of a male line Reston visage is pure granite several inches problem had three--count them, Nelson, candidate , John Connally, out of the legal of giants,and they were even more macho in. three--sides to it. "Responsibility" can go soup. The New York Times has somehow than their forebearers. It is no accident that My comlaint is not that Reston serves as no further than summoning up awe before managed to get the worst of both worlds--the the two women represent the future of Secretary Kissinger's messenger boy. the Rockefellerintellecl. silly establishment left o_f the Nixo~ era in female liberation just has not been listening Somebody must do that, after all. Now that Any week Reston can be relied on to be Mr. Reston, and the Silly establishment or looking. Or reading. I wonder if Mr Joseph Alsop is in semi-retirement, it is comic with responsibility. Just recently, he right of the Nixon era in William Safire. Reston can read anything , now, exceptbetter to have Reston doing the job than to tried to break out of the old politics and look Comes now Reston to pontificate on In-Kissinger handouts. waste a person of talent on it. for some new Democratic faces. He con­dira Gandhi. He concludes from her recent No, it is Reston's availability to every sulted "young thoughtful Democrats like action that she has "probably put back the other charlatan that embarrasses. Even Joe Califano, Harry McPherson, Ted women's liberation movement by almost a Nelson PRockefekker can convince Reston Sorenson, Arthur Schlesinger, Edward generation." The born establishmentarian that he is a latter-day Plato come to think up Bennett Williams, Bill Moyers ... " That list never notices a woman until she is ruling a a government or two. Rockefeller , who speaks volumes about the Reston vantage country. The only thing Mrs. Gandhi proves needs intellectual prompting, loves large point. It is hard to know which lapse is more is that not even Richard Nixon could be simple charts. The funniest passage in John revealing, that he thinks Arthur Schlesinger wrong all the time. She was on his enemies' Hershey's diary of a week with President young or that he thinks Ted Sorensen list with good cause. Ford told how Rockefeller, suing his charts, thoughtful. It is true that the women's movement has explains to the Cabinet that he had been Even more indicative is the fact that he on occasion pointed to Prime Minister right in his rulings on the filibuster. Shortly turned to courtiers of the two dead Gandhi and Meir to show that countries can after this White House demonstration. the Democratic presidents to find his new be ruled by women. But neither was ever a lanr:~ shat:s Founded November 3, 1966 Declare war on Fred Graver Editor-in-Chief Andy Praschak Associate Edilor Ed Pawlowski Advertising Manager the cities Judy Smith I USB Editor Bob Tracy Ad Layout Candy Frankovelgia Production Manager liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii& 1:any prasci Sue Zwick Production Manager Chris Smith Photo Editor With urban ledgers sounding more and more like the Book of News: 283-1715 Lamentations, last week's U.S. Conference of Mayors couldn't be Editorials: 283-8661 expected to do much more than pray for cash. And so they did. Business: 283-7411 Following a familiar political liturgy, the faithful at Boston's Thursday, July 10, 1975 Wailing Wall for Mayors were complaining that the Lord Congress has forsaken its children. Tired of the State Militant, the mayors claimed Federal dollars are being squandered on defense while cities go abandoned. But if urban bigwigs are expecting a piece of the $107 billion FINAU't IT AU defense pie, they're better off waiting for manna. Cl/CKW. THe"COMMli­NIST 1111NIF&5TON ti/AS Prodigal Sons IJORNl MARX Rt!SH£/J HOM~ 70 R£AO THe However odious arms spending may have become since the 60's, F/N/511£0 !XX­il'II have to go a long way to rival cities for unpopularity. As muchVMCNT 70 HIS as they'd like to look like Suffering Servants, the wailing mayorsWI~ JeNNY. are more likely to be portrayed as Prodigal Sons and most of them know it. There is, however, a simple solution to the financial bickering, once Congress getlj tired of it. The easiest way to maintain defense allotments and solve the mayors' problems in one step is to put the money to good use and declare war on cities. All of them. Not only would this policy dispose once and for all of the various urban crises; it would give us something to do with all those arms we've been buying. While some might shudder at first to think of Pittsburgh being blown off the map (no small contribution, really) it would at least lay some boring Administration rhetoric to restCXCfJ5GMC, YG5? 51R, 81/T I and give HUD Secretary Carla Hills a long vacation. The benefits fXNT THINK I are piling up already. 8GLON6 IN THIS It's an old idea, really. Democcrats have been waging War on CLASS. I At­Poverty, Chastity and Obedience ever since the New Deal, though READY KNOW not always with much success. Economic civil war has proven tooMOST OF THIS metaphorical to stir suburban hearts, and that, after all, is whereSf{/ff. .......__ th money is . Besides, all those other Administrations have had foreign{'" enemies to use their arsenal on. If raining expensive hardwan• on Buffalo seems wasteful <does it?) it's at least better than leaving it to rust. Agrarian Ideal Unlike the VietNam hassle, the anti-city Crusade shouldn't pose  

7HAT:S
~~ -ru'O'?
. rl/NNY-YOV
·.···.·~·-·..·.·.··: ·."...·.·.~_···._.·.··.·_._:··· tdtl7HO. JR?
·-· ·.. . Y{)(J fUEiE AS-lti&R&M&ANT \ • SIGNEIJ 70 70 8& SIKJT NO,
··.·• ·• . CLASS? 
I THAIS OAO­
~SR. 
-.........__ 
many recruitment problems. Most of the growing suburban con· slituency would gladly battle for the extinction of Cincinnati and her kind. And if all that weaponry is as good as the Texas salesmen say, the whole thing could be over in a week. 
There is, nonetheless, a flaw in all this. The fact is that, agrarian ideal notwithstanding, defense industries like most American mainstays are almost completely dependent on cities. To wage holy war on Downtown America would require at least the economic and cultural uprooting of the rest of the country. 
But no matter. Such details of give-and-lake strategy can be left, like the mayors' pleas, with Congress. Rarely unable to unite behind a fat defense appropriation, legislators can wrap it in the garment of urban policy and make of it the one spotless offering acceptable to the White House. 
Most of those places would have voted Democratic anyway. 


~-~-----~-------------------­
" 
Thursday, July 10, 1975
the observer 


IUSB 
Psych experiments conducted with students 
by Judy Smith IUSB Editor 
Human experiments and human subjects Gottwald set up the experiment to find out 
are basic fundamentals for the IUSB how humans hear sounds and in 
Psychology Department in the summer. sequence. He, also, wants to find out how 
Some of the major ~experiments and people pay attention to one tone and not 
research progress this summer are Richard another. According to Gottwald, the faster 
L. Gottwald's, professor of psychology, the speed of the tone, tl:"l easier it is to pay Beep Bop perception machine, memory attention to one or thL other tones. Ac­experiment headed by Barb Wilson, Notre cording to Banicki, Gottwald's a pioneer is Dame Psychology graduate, Ann Lewis's , his field. also a Notre Dame graduate, experiment, Wilson's mempry experiment entails a and Buzz Banicki's, a IUSB student, series of slides, plus asking the subjects to research on autokinetics . recall what they have seen. Wilson did the 
experiment with older people and people
The sessions are set up for one student per between _ ages of 18-25. She found that session, and the students who perform the people have special memory devices. She experiments are from the psychology pool. plans to continue her experiments through 
Thepoolis made up of students in Pl03, In-· the second summer session at IUSB. troductiory Psychology, who sign up to do One of the reasons Wilson is doing her experiments for extra points towards their experiment at IUSB this summer is the 
grades. ~ availability of subjects from the psychology pool. 
According to Banicki, any research done Banicki's research in aut okinetics deals -..111•111111 by a student must have a faculty advisor with a pin point of light in a dark room. Theand their research approved by the light moves to different places on the wall screening committee at IUSB. Students and while music is playing. He wants to find themust abide by the American reaction of people to the stimulus-music and Psychology Association set of ethics. 
what their response will be. He also wantsAccording to Banicki, IUSB's Psychology to find out what makes music enjoyable. HeDepartment is geared toward experimental uses all types of music arrangements in hispsychology instead of dinical or behavioral 
research.
modification. 

Gottwald's Beep Bop machine , which The rat experiments are not done during was designed by him takes after Wendall the summer. • According . to Banicki, theGardner's theory. The machine proves how animals are put to sleep after the springpeople form different concepts. The session. Any student or professor whomachine has different tones with high and wants to do research with rats during the
low pitches. Gottwald can vary the frequencies and vary the speed to study the summer may find a few of them would be 
kept alive for this purpose if approved byorganization and auditory senses of the screening committee. Research andhumans. The tones can be put into a experiments on rats will resume in the fall sequence making a tune or a set of patterns according to Banicki. ' that can be dsitinguished by a subject. 




Softball league flourishes this summer 
Athletic Commission to forfeit six Over the last few years, the games won with ineligible players . intramural sports programs The commission also, for reasons IUSB have run. their courses unclear and much to the disap­smoothly and without any serious pointment of the teams still in obstacles. This summer's softball contention for the regular program, however, has not season title, voted to disallow the followed earlier examples turning awarding of trophies to the into a pitiful flop. seasonal champions team as has Numerous forfeits due to a lack been customary in the past. ~ ()nly 
~!r~~~~~s r~~~~d;e~o~ge:~c~!~~g drinking something cold as op-a general pain in the neck for the' posed to sweating in the hot sun for 
a little pre-tournament "prac:­

players interested enough to tice." consistently show up. fBarrett, one Exactly why the IUSB
1975


"Joe Egg" presented at IUSB 
of the more talented teams, found softball program has faltered can 
a solution to the man 
power shortage temporarily by not be pin-poimted. The fact Nichols' prim~ry the~e seems Egg" is the analysis of a recruiting non-IUSB students onto simply remains that it just has.
Peter Nichols comes from 
to .be constant m alLh1s plays. relationship the dissection of their ranks. Fortunately, for the Hopefully,, the upcoming tour-
Bristol, England, from the very 
As~de from "Jo_e Egg" he has human feeling, the laying bare of sake of the 1eague, this unfair_ nament will be a different story.
middle --the unsmart, striving, wntten The NatiOnal Health and people. The double-elimi-nation tour­
oractice was revealed, and they 
intellectually limited but morally Forget Me Not Lane, along with 
·were forced by nament with the trophies and a lot
firm middle -of the English the screen play for Georgy Girl. 
A July 3, decision of the IUSB of pride at stake beginning July 27
awarded trophies. tators alike since a bitter rivalry
With the remaining two weeks of has developed between the two
social terms, and the use of the attempt by the characters to cope play about love and marriage. No, 
kind of popular culture familiar to with it in any way they can. its not funny --it has wit, a bitter Bennett.
its audience. The new drama There is a combination of excoriating wit. No, its not tragic ­
comes primarily out of England emotions in "Joe Egg" from -it is ironic, as ironic as the un­
spent the next two Sundays at the 27 with nothing to do, stop over at
from Osborn, Pinter, Orton, and of pathetic humor and suffering to called for domestic accident, the 
beach ot laughing in the shade Memorial field or Potaswatomi 
course, Nichols. heartlessness and caring. "Joe unexpected death in incongruity." 
-r-------P~,.rk and enjoy a game ot,. two. 
Thursday, July 10,1975 the observer 


Faculty dean 
search targum crossword 
continues 

A five-member faculty advisory committee has been named to assi 
w 
Participatory Plays 
for the Young

st Chancellor Lester M. Wolfson in 
I
filling the vacant dean-of-faculties 
TALES FROM 

office at Indiana University at 1-­
NO 
South Bend. MOTHER GOOSE 
A limited search is under way for candidates for the position, 
(Weds. & Sats.l at 2:00 P.M.

SMC
Wolfson said. The search is being 
ALL SEATS .75 conducted within the Indiana University statewide system of THEATRE liiTLE THEATRE 
eight campuses. Phone: 284-4176 St. Mary·~ College 
1 
AIR CONDITIONED.

FOR YOUNG PEOPLE Wolfson said hw hopes to be able to fill the dean's office by the beginning of the 1975-76 academic year in mid-August. 
You expect more from Standard :
d . • 
an you get 1t. r.. • Members of the advisory 
•

:•t FLOYD'S STANDARD SERVIC~f~:
screening committee are Dr. 
Charles R. DuVall, associate 
2830 Uncolnway -West STANDARD • 
professor of education; Dr. 
Mishawaka, Ind. 1~ :
Michael J. Esselstrom, associate 
professor of music; Dr. Lawrence 
Phone 255-0552 vw Servlc:e end Used VW Puts • 
L. Garber, associate professor of 
Inspection on Forel&n end Amerlc:en Cers • 

chemistry; Dr. Karen M. 
• V W for SALE -Complrte r•r Re,.lr -: 
Rasmussen, allSistant professor of 
...•••.................
history and chairperson-elect of ~········ 
the IUSB Academic Senate; and Dr. John R. Swanda, Jr., associate professor of business ad· 
50 Florida resort 13 Recognized
ACROSS
ministration. 

city incorrectly
1 Lower back 52 Play on words 14 Common suffix 11 Highest point 53 Fuel 21 Bu 11 fighterDr. Joseph L. Peyser is 15 Fear of Heights 54 1965 baseball MVP 25 Born 16 Discomfort 57 Famous ship 27 Eastern group of
resigning as dean of faculties, 
17 Circus performer 58 -----Japanese War colleges (abbr.)
effective June 30. He relinquished 
(pl.) 59 Fiendish 28 "Such -for the
the office for reasons of health. He 18 Mass. -of Tech. 61 Oklahoman city course" will remain on the IUSB faculty as 19 Part of wedding 62 Expect 29 Leaves out 
ceremony (pl.) 63 Moslem potentates 32 Argentine plains
professor of education and French. 
20 German city 64 Abstainer 34 Spahn's teammate 22 ----Scu11 y 36 Part of an 23 Never: Ger. 
DOWN intersection
24 Type of soup 38 Go to ­26 Sweetsop l Aids to digestion 39 Going away28 Man's name 2 Sourness 40 Region of Asia 
30 John or Jane 3 Crosby, e.g. Minor31 Medicinal 4 Swoboda and Hunt 41 Try to equal or substances 5 Make a choice s'urpass 

33 One named after 6 If -a hammer 43 Soundanother 7 Arthur Miller 44 Come forth 35 Rests family 45 Secondhand dealer 
37 Italian coin 8 Spanish or 48 12~ cents38 Hugh Hefner bunny Portuguese 51 Urges42 Hard worker 9 U. S. Military 55 Malay law
46 Poetic term decoration 56 Brazilian heron 
47 Advertisements 10 Peggy-57 Palm drink (slang) 11 Relating to bees 58 Body of water49 Alaskan city 12 G. B. Shaw play 60 Ignited 
KEN'S D:.:f~ 
Hairstylir•.'} 
-Award winning stylis lJniqut atmosphere -~ Roffler Styling and Products Across from 100 Center (Lincolnway West) in Mishawaka 
PHONE 255-6500 Appointments preferred 
~--THELOWiSTLP-;~-TAPEPRiCES--l 
t ARE AT I 
...-------------.: BOOGIE RECORDS I 

THIS WEEKEND 
AT 

N I cK I E Is 
Dance •o 'QUARTET' 
1 
1. 

Every WED., FRI., & SAT. From 10:00 p.m. to 2:00a.m. 
-NO COVER­-NO INCREASE IN PRICE­FREE PARKING -A&P LOT 
928 N. EDDY, S.B. 
(Just a Few Blocks South of NO) 
:STOP IN AND CHECK OUT OUR STOCK...·: t SELECTED TOP NEW RELEASES....... $449 f
1 (List 6.98) f t REGULAR $6.98 LIST LPs....... $499 t f NEW RELEASES...AND MANY MORE NOT! LISTED fI * NEIL YOUNG * FRANK ZAPPA * CAT STEVENS I' * JEFFERSON STARSHIP * POCO * STEPHEN STILLS I 
' soul • Rock • Jazz • Blues • counrrr -weslern t 
I t Special orders filled promptly! I 
1 909-B College Square t
' ~ t
I RECORDS Mishawaka, Indiana I t Phone 255-0266 (across from Town & Country) t 
I "Your Seven-Day-A-Week Music Store" A 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... -~~~~~.--J 
------~­
I >:~_.•
1. 1 -·/~. 

Thursday, July 10, 1975
10 the observer 

FOR A SPECIAL OCCASION 
{ OR FOR NO REASON AT ALL ) 
SAY IT WITH FLOWERS or GIFTS from WYGANT FLORAL CO. INC. 317 LWW SOUTH BEND 232-3354 
.......................................................................... 
~ ~ AN ICE CREAM SPECIAL ~
iBUY ONE HOT FUDGE SUNDAy I ~ AND GET ONE FREE 
I 
~ AT (with this coupon) ~ 
I FARRELL'S ICE CREAM PARLOR I I SCOTTSDALE MALL 291-3800 I 
~..................................................................................~ 
TONY'S SHOE Rt:PAIR 
HAND MADE SANDALS fO YOUR SPECIFICATIONS. SELL WORLD'S lEATHER SHOES.PICK YOUR STYLE 
NOW LOCATED BEH.ND BADIN H.All oPEN : 8 a.m. -.4: 3 0 p .11i •v', r 8 a.m. -1 p.m. SAT. 283-114.. QUICK SERVICE & REASONABLE PRICES 

SERGEANT PEPPER 
PRESENTS 
SUNDOWN 
MON. Thru SAT. OPENING JULY 7th 
Also.... 

Watch For The 
BIKINI BAR 
UN ESCORTED LADIES ... 
COOL OFF AT 
DRINKS 50' 

POOLSIDE OVER· 
EVERY NITE 
LOOKING THE 
S.B. SKYLINE 

REDISCOVER WITH CINDI 
THE YOUR 'BIKINI' HOSTESS SHERAT\lh 
Sheraton Motor Inn 
SHERATON HOTELS & MOTOR INNS. WORLOWIDE 423 NORTH MICHIGAN STREET, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 219-232-2041 
Pentecostalism seen in 
the Revivalist tradition 
The current popularity of was noticeably absent from the who developed this spirit of Pentecostalism among American American scene, Dolan asserts, Catholic evangelicalism were Catholics has precedents in yet half century later, it was a suffering from a cultural nineteenth century Catholic widespread and accepted feature schizophrenia. As liberals they revivalism, according to a of American Catholicism. He desired to bridge the gap between University of Notre Dame suggests that certain conditions in the Church and American society; specialist in American Catholic the United States helped foster the as conservatives, they preached a and urban history. growth of Catholic revivalism, religion that encouraged 
Dr. Jay P. Dolan, an assistant namely, the increased im-separation from a world they professor of history at Notre migration of male religious orders judged to be corrupted by sin. The Dame, researched Catholic who brought with them the Notre Dame historian maintains popular religion while he was at tradition of preaching parish that they were more successful as Princeton University on a missions, the widespread neglect conservatives, noting that "this fellowship last year. In a paper of religion among Catholic im-helps to explain why the plain folk resulting from that work, Dolan migrants, the scarcity of priests clung to their conservative, old­notes the upsurge of Pen­and parishes in the United States time religion and never took up the tecostaliam in America society and the renewed success that cause of Americanizing the during the 1970's. "To the surprise missions were enjoying in Europe. Church." The mission ultimately of many," he writes, "Catholics According to Dolan, Catholic helped to build up the Catholic have been in the foreground of this revivalism best describes the parish as an island community traditionally Protestant phenomenon of the parish mission surrounded by t!l~ evil haunts of a 
"Like the ethnic parish it served, revivalism strengthened 
the sense of group consciousness among CatholiCs ... " 
phenomenon. Looking back to the that flourished in the United States wicked world, he says. nineteenth century one can find a in the second half of the nineteenth While revivalism frequently has similar situation in the resurgence century. With its emphasis on been linked to reform movements of revival religion, to ignore the individual conversion, emotion­in the United States, Dolan notes, participation of Catholics in this stirring preaching and evangelical the revivalists' emphasis on in­religious awakening would only morality, the parish mission dividual perfection necessarily continue to distort the history of movement from the viewpoint of limited the scope of their desired American realism." revival religion, he claims, one social reconstrustion. The 
Dolan charges that in better onderstand the religious revivalists "withdrew to the overlooking the Catholic aspect of experience of immigrant security of the old order and revivalism in the United Slatesi, Catholics. eventually put most of their efforts historians have underestimated Calling revivalism a two-edged at social reforms into the tem­the popularity it enjoyed in sword, Dolan writes that it helped perance, and later Prohibitionist , American society. "ReHgious Catholics adapt to a new en­cause." enthusiasm was an in-vironment and order their Revival religion attracted a terdenominational experience," he religious world, but at the same middle class people among says, "and Methodists were not the time it encouraged a more secular Protestants, but the appeal to only ones who enjoyed soul­and more American version of Catholics was much broader. searching, body-warming traditional Tridentine Catholicism. "Catholic revivals clearly at­preaching." "As a social movement it helped tracted a broad spectrum of 
Revival religion was a major to organize and unite a minority people--lower class as well as motivatin~ force in the develop-group in a society that was visibly upperclass, church members and 
"Revivalism -the spearhead of a widespread religious awakening among American Catholics...'' 
ment and consolidation of American Catholicism in the second half of the nineteenth century, the Notre Dame historian says. He calls revivalism the "spearhead of a widespread religious awakening among American Catholics, an awakening whose strength was manifested in the success it achieved in building up a strong island community in the midst of a changing American society." 
In the 1830's Catholic revivalism hostile to their presence,"he says. non-church members, Protestants "Like the ethnic parish it served, and Catholics," Dolan writes. revivalism strengthened the sense "Like a parish fair, it seemed to of group consciousness among offer something to everyone-­Catholics and aided in their ad­justment to the new world. The revival also fostered certain renewed committment for the values that were in harmony with zealot, momentary consolation for American society. From the the negligent and a new religious perspective of the man in the pew, adventure for the seeker." 

revivalism helped to explain how immigrant newcomers coped with their new social environment." 
Dolan says that the individuals 
VEGETARIAN ?? 
WE OFFER A FULL LINE OF VEGETARIAN FOODS, ALSO A LARGE VARIETY OF HEALTH FOODS INCLUDING NON-MEAT PROTEINS. VISIT THE: 
HOUSE OF SOMETHING 
BETTER 
10% DISCOUNT ON AIL VITAMINS AND FOOD SUPPLEMENTS THIS WEEK WITH UNNERSITY ID. 287-5310 
1602 S. MICHIGAN ST. S.B. 
"By the 1860's the mission had become an accepted feature of American Catholicism and later years only stabilized and organized what had gone before. 
Like its counterpart the Protestant revival, it had been integrated into the institutional structure of the Church." 
THE RESUME PLACE 
25 RAG BOND Only $2.55 
insly·prints ~· 
203 N. MAIN AJ 
SO.BEND, INo_,.e;, 
289-6977 


• 

------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
·'StUdent presents a view 
from th~ press box 
by Bob Kissel 

Television. Press credentials. The stands. All ways of witnessing an event in man's modern fantasy world, the wonderful world of sports. 
Television, the modern cyclops, really is a truly wonderful in­vention. It allows the armchair quarterback or the Saturday rvening jump shot expert to view rverything from NHL hockey to the wrist-wrestling championships in Petlauma, California. All in the comfort of home, only three quick feet from the refrefrigerated beer and box of pretzels. 
Our sportsy society has become so addicted to the miracles of the tube, that many new stadiums are installing giant TV screens to sa I isfy the cravings of the analytically-minded for instant 
It's funny, most of the golfers don't 

seem to notice where or for whom Iyou write. The press is the 
press ...choose your words 
carefully. 
The major disadvantage of 
covering a sports event with press 
credentials is that the media 
people are sequestered into their 
own enclave of isolation, far from 
the crowds ... all the action is not on the field of battle. Sit in Wrigley Field's bleachers 
any sunny aflernoon and the pulse of humanity is inspiring. The old folks are there, recounting famous 
players long gone by, players who 
make baseball. The kids are there, watching their favorite heroes, Jose Car­dena) or Bill Madlock, waiting intently for the next swing of the bat which could bring 'em to their feel. 

montage of human life. The girl watchers are out in force, as well as the girls in their halters and hot 
pants. The old ladies with their flowery hats are there, fingering their rosary beads for the sake of the golfing legend, Arnie. 
And yes of course Arnie's Army is in full force, following the man up and down, cheering every shot, good or bad. When Palmer strides 
to the green, visions of Mt. 
Olympus crowd one's con­sciousness. For soon the Thor of golf will start his charge. But even 
if he doesn't... If my sentiments are not too clear, the only place to embrace the whole of man's being, his diversity and conformity, is at a sporting event, in the stands or in the gallery, but among the people. 

n•plays. -motion analysis, and isolated looks into the hearts of those gladiators down there. 
But then again how many have the opportunity (not to speak of the money) to fly over to Germany and watch his tor her) favorite Olympian in the last Games in Munich. Even next summer's two wPrks of athletics, beginning July 17 in Montreal, are inaccessible for most. 
And t>ven worse, spectators at giant conglomerate events like the Olympic Games would have to make decisions about which of a zillion events to watch. Tht• choicr in track and field alone is staggering. 
So lrt Ht•nry Longhurst or Chris Sht•nkel or t>ven Curt Gowdy tell tht• whys and wherefores of athletic competition. The gross problem with watching sports on 
TV  is  that  you're putting  your  
minds.  feelings,  and impressions  
m  the  hands  of  someone  else.  

HPgrPtably, that face on the screen usually parrots the owners' sen­timrnts to the hilt. 
With that verbal mediocrity of sportscast ing the thinking man must not forget the terrible loss of pPrsp{'ctive the camera imparts. A TV cam('ra may be a complex piPce of machinery, but it is a mPre toy compared to the human t>ye. Unfortunately TV loses all sense of perspective, the incredible way a Jack Nicklaus hils golf ball or the pure artistry of Bobby Orr on skates. So what we have is total t>xposure to sports figures, whose talents are somehow lost in the (')ectronic translation from putting green to living room. 
Sports credentials, just a piece of paper, but that one paper card opens doors, and free food, and free drinks and free ... 
Unfortunately a gathering as large and significant as the U.S. Open yields the same type of snobbery seen on the social page, writers fron national publications think of themselves as the big cheese, not to be confused with one lonely student writer,(the mouse). 
Then there are the bettors. At Cubs' park, probably only in the bleachers, you can find just or­dinary folk willing to bet on anything. Bets on score, on hits in one inning, Pven a wager on what 
tht>  next  pitch  will  be  are  com­ 
mnnplar".  
Jr '·  ot  the  money  which  is  

in ,, • the dickering for tht· odds, llw thrill of the dare, and thP sc. ,Jt uf a clean take. 
Wandering around in the massive galleries at Medinah No. 3, recpnt site of the Open, is a 

House Painting. 
DOES YOUR HOME 
NEED PAINTING? 
EXPERIENCED 
PAINTERS (TWO N.D. 
GRADUATES) WILL 
PAINT INTERIOR­
EXTERIOR 
VERY REASONABLE!! CALL 234-1889 For Free 
Estimate 
LITURGICAL SCHEDULE 
SACRED HEART MAIN CHURCH 
June 23 through August 3 MONDAY THRU SATURDAY. 

8:00 a.m.  MORNING PRAISE IN  
11:15 a.m.  THE LADY CHAPEl CONFESSION  I  
11:30 a.m.  MASS  
5:00p.m.  CONFESSION  
5:15p.m.  MASS  
7:00p.m.  CONFESSION  
7:15 p.m.  EVENSONG IN THE  
LADY CHAPEl  

(EVENSONG ON FRIDAY WILL BE CElEBRATED IN THE GROTTO) 
SUNDAY. 

9:00 a.m. MORNING PRAISE IN 
THE LADY CHAPEl 9:30a.m. MASS 
10:45 a.m. MASS 
12:15 p.m. MASS 

7:15 EVENSONG IN THE LADY CHAPEl 
• ~_ursday, July 10, 1975 
the observer 1 1 

····•···················•··························•·········•··· 
24 H 

~~ ou .. 
~ 
0 ~ J & J GRILL V' 
\

I 
p

M 
327 N. MICHIGAN 
I 

u 
N
11am-11pm

s B 
I Daily Dinner Specials A L
c only $1.49 
""'-> D '{ s /L 
A 

••••·····•••••·•·••··••·••••··•·········•··················•···· 
MEN-WOMEN 
70,000 Job 
Openings. 

Good salary. Your choice of training in over 300 good jobs. Work near home or abroad. Educational opportunities. Free medical and dental care. Free housing, meals, and 30 days paid vacation. Special bonuses. Physical training. Adventure. 
If you qualify, we'll guarantee you job training. And pay you while you learn. You'll start at $344.10 a month (before deductions). With a raise toS383.40in just four months. 
Call Army Opportunities 
232-1616 

Join the people w~o've joined the Army. 
An Equal Opportumty Employer 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR RENT 
2 ROOMS. $40-mo. Girts. Air cond. 7579 
HOUSES AVAILABLE. Summer or fall ncar campus, good condition. 
234-6519 
WANTED 
MARRIED COUPLE needed for live in houseparents tor foster horne. Salary. Wrile:P.E.P. Inc., 3012 S. Twyckenham, So. Bend, Ind. 46614 
HANDYMAN. Reduced sum­mer rent for single room near campus. 
234-6519 
SMALL (GE-Panasonic type) stereo. Preterabl · used, preferably cheap. •.d!o .'~3 1:-t: 
(6 CHEVELLE. Great engine; good transportation. $100. Call 
Dennis at 1094 
NOTICES 
INTERESTED IN no-trills tow cost jet travel to Europe, Africa, Middle East, Far East at minimum cost, maximum flexibility and minimum hassle? For information call EDUCATIONAL FLIGHTS toll­free (800) 223-5569 
OBSERVER 
Classified Ads Get Results 
FOR SALE 
LIGHT BLUE, watt to wall carpeting, about 11' x 13'. Call Candy. 1254 
PERSONALS 
grace. 
tong lime, no hea•! not even 1 teller for your tong-lost friend. i miss you schmuck It don't you read your newspaper? 
love, 
the Lindy bulldog 
p.s. 
you are stilt alive, aren't you? 
to mary "i", 
do you stilt live across the halt from me? if not, please se"d forwarding address... 
132 B-P. 
to: the crazy mick and the dirty old man, 
miss you much! school's great, summer's beautiful, but I crave L. I. beaches. haven't seen a guIt in years! 
surf a few waves for me, o.k? be good-write!!! 
love' 
muffet 
p.s. tell billy... 
To All tnterested 
Frankovetgias: tn order to simplify your shopping, the Observer would like to suggest a nice stereo for your daughters upcoming twentieth birthday. 
.. 

-
.. 
... 



questioned. all now." echo through the tour •~:.:..-:.-:.:!~a:"~a.-..~a.'lll...,...,.._,.............................n.._-..... Ivan Mestrovic's sculpture of the The life of a tour guide is not 
Pieta is one of the high points of the without its frantic moments either. booth, but each new day holds MAC'S RECORD RACK ~ 
another surprise. Art Linkletter ! tour of Sacred Heart Church. And Fear swept Mary's face when coined the phrase "Kids say the 11!. 
after explaining the fame of eight busloads of Tamburitzans (A darndest things." I beg to differ, 
$ 1 0 F F ~j@

Mestrovic and his great desire to · Croation folk-dancer group) Art, "Tourists say the darndest design this exhibit, an inquisitive arrived simultaneously for a tour things." 
~ 
Thurs. thru Sat. ~ ALL ~ ELTON JOHNI 
Next Mon. thr_u ~ Wednesday ~ 
Certain I Country Albums J 

I 288-1178. I
I A FULL SERVICE RECORD STORE~ 
~ NEXT TO RIVER I ~2923 MISH. AVE. PARK THEATRE ~ 
........................................................................................................................ 
-

12 the observer Thursday, July 10, 1975 
Campus tours afford riotous anecdotes 
by Andy Praschak Associate Editor 
tourist asked Mary if the statue of the campus. Upon departure While the secretaries in the was made out of plaster of Paris. one of the buses noticed that a 

mer and not think of a story , grotto and pulled what they ob­passed on by a visitor to Notre viously thought was the heist of the More than eighty tours were 
century, some melted wax from
Dame. Some even have the given in June with over 1,000 audacity to question the presence the candle racks. Of course, for 
people enjoying them. If historyof Our Lady on top of the famous the grade school field trips that repeats itself, July will prove even Golden Dome. "But the shoulders visit the campus, the two real 
a busier month for visitors to the are so big, are you sure it's not highlights of Notre Dame are the campus. Each day the booth Knute Rockne?" one visitor bathrooms and the snack bar at the 
closes and the words "I've seen it Huddle. 
RACING EVERY TUESDAY NIGHT 
SOUTH BEND MOTOR SPEEDWAY Time trial at 7:00 p.m. Race at 8:30 p.m. 
Track located 3 miles west of So. Bend on Western Ave. 
"************************* 
: For all Students, Faculty & Staff, a 10 :
*pl'I'CPnt discount with ID and purchase of * 
*'$10 or morP * 
t***********************. 

215 Dixie Way N Roseland' So. Bend 





