Oa The Inside 

Point-counterpoint 
... page 4 
Flu epidemic 
... page 6 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 69 Wednesday, January 29, 1975 
Gives more power 

Radical SLC changes proposed 
by Mary Reher Staff Reporter 

Frustration due to SLC powerlessness sparked SBP Pat McLaughlin to propose radical changes in the SLC structure. 
The proposals unveiled at the SLC meeting last night involve giving the SLC power to override vetoes by the University President or the reduction of the mem· bership of the SLC to six. 
"Students have had no interest in the SLC for the past year and a half," stated McLaughling. "Also anything that is ever passed through the university can be passed without the SLC. Either we must make it worthwhile with the power to override a veto or cut it down in membership." 
Dr. Walter Nicgorski stated, "The veto proposal was not, I believe, a serious proposal and doesn't warrant a serious evaluation, because a number of those voting for it said they were doing so out of frustration. It is understandable because of a long period of time with no response on the sex ruling discussed last semester." 
Dr. Robert Ackerman said that if the purpose of the veto proposal was to show student frustration because they're not listened to or responded to, he feels there is a better vehicle to communicate this than using shock treatment. "The days of confrontation are over and that kind of confrontation is not practical," he said. 
"There is not a college that I am familiar with 

where the council has the power to override the 
president's veto," Ackerman said. 
Dr. Paul Conway said, "They were asking for something impossible to give. Even Fr. Hesburgh could not consent to that because his veto is subject to the veto of the Board of Trustees." 
"You cannot ask the SLC to give itself more power," Conway noted. "The best way would have been to petition someone else, such as the Board of Trustees or Fr. Hesburgh." 
Student Body Vice President Frank Flanagan ob· 

served, "The veto proposal, which probably would 
never have had a chance of passing, would change the 
purpose of the SLC to a legislative body while the 
proposal to reduce the number of members would 
retain it as an advisory body. 

Dr. Robert Ackerman: "There is not a college that I am familiar with where the council has the power to override the president's veto." 
"By presenting these proposals, the students showed that the SLC is not working and tried to bring up two possible changes," he said. "The first proposal was important for impact's sake." 
Ackerman noted, "The discussion Monday was helpful; no one could go away from that discussion and forget about it. Hopefully itwillhelp people get in touch with their frustrations after investing a great deal of time and effort without response." 
He also noted that the SLC does not organize itself as well as it could and that the people are not as dedicated as they might be. 
Fr. David Schlaver, director of student affairs, said "Everything we have done over the seven years of the SLC had been approved and we are not talking about constant confrontation. Even though this particular issue may be vetoes, it does not mean the President does not recognize the body's importance and the role we can play. 
"I would hope that the SLC can retain its identity and become the strong advisory board it used to be," Schlaver added. 
Regarding the reduction of the number of SLC members, Conway said, "I think perhaps it would be a good thing but I think a group of six is a little small and puts alot of power into the hands of a few people. It does not give the perspective of a large group of people. Maybe there should be six members from each group; students, faculty, and adminstration." 
Conway also noted that as the council stands now it is large enough to provide members of committees itself. With a reduction of SLC members, however, the committees would have to be staffed by people not involved in the SLC. 
"I am not opposed to a member reduction right now," stated Fr. Terry Lally, "if it would solve the problems, but I don't think it would." 
The biggest problem is non-interest and non­involvement, Lally said, and he doesn't think you can get involvement using a small number of people. 

Nicgorski said, "I do not think the size of the council has been shown to be the cause of any of its apparent shortcomings. Rather, I think the frustrations are due to a number of other factors such as lack of willingness to work on committees, lack of student interest. and those on the council no longer feel they are leading concerned students." 
"Perhaps we couldtry a small council on a tem­porary basis," stated Schlaver, "Maybe until the end of the semester to see how it would work. My hope is that we are a little more reflective and we may be open to evaluating it. It would be up to the Trustees to change the SLC because they wer e responsible for setting it up." 
Flanagan said, "If we had not spent so much time on the first proposal we probably could have put the second proposal through yesterday. As committee chairman, I was trying to avoid setting up committees to investigate the SLC future because it seems as though we have been putting things into committees and getting delayed." 
Brian Hegarty noted that the second proposal would be decided on soon but, if approved, it probably will not take effect until the end of the semester. 

Both Nicgorski and Conway feel the chances for a member reduction are good, considering the favorable straw vote on Monday. 
McLaughlin noted that the students are trying to make the SLC better and more effective and are open to any ideas to make it work better. 

Indiana alcohol laws affect other schoo·ls 
Glunt has been in constant touch 
by John Feeney highest penalty administered." Senator Mike Gary, and he too
with state representative Stanley
Staff Reporter seems less than optimistic.
Glunt said that the student Jones, who will introduce the"
The University of Notre Dame is not the only university afflicted "However, Gary feels that Dr. 
government has been supporting drinking bill in the Indiana House
with problems related to Indiana's alcohol laws. Both private and Faccenda's new bill to remove the
vigorously the efforts of the In­next week. Jones, a former
public schools must contend with the strict interpretation of the University's liability for its
diana Student Association <ISA> Purdue student body president,
state Supreme Court. students has a good chance to pass,
with the full cooperation of the does not feel too confident that the 
St. Joseph College, Rennselear, adopted the policy used here at which may clear the who\e
University Administration. "We bill will pass unaltered, according 
Notre Dame and it has proven quite successful thus far. "We just problem up," Glunt noted.
will continue to fund ISA, but we to Glunt. "He had to ask for the
responded to the state laws," stated Edward Hughes, a member of Grier seemed to be completely
just can't put the Student maximum change, but a com­
the office of Student Mfairs. "It came to our attention in April and behind the students. "We are 
Government name on anything promise seems in order, with the
after contacting state lawyers, we discm.sed the problem with interested in their welfare, just
else, mainly because we are possibility of changing the legal
Dean Macheca and opted for his system. It was something we like any other school. The fact that 
subject to criticism for the use of age to 19 or limiting those under 21
didn't want to do, but it was evident we had no choice." we are a state school has noeffect 
our funds for political reasons. to 3.2 beer."
Dan Mangen, St. Joseph student body president, has instigated a whatsoever on our effort to attain
We're very eager to see the new Glunt has also been in touch with 
letter campaign throughout the state in an effort to gain support for what's in the students' best in·
bill go through." another Purdue graduate, Satate
the upcoming bill proposing lowering the drinking age to 18. terests." "Nobody is very happy with the situation right now," offered Mange. "The University has set up places for those over 21, restricing some areas, and enforcing the rules whenever possible." 
"We haven't encountered any problems yet," said Hughes, "but then we haven't really been tested. Our first tes tis coming up this 
HPC finalizes party plans
weekend with Mardi Gras." 
Mangen said that Governor Otis Bowen is coming to St. Joseph College on February 13th, when a forum will be set up to discuss with the governor his views on the subject of alcohol. "We're looking forward to that," stated Mangen.

Being a state school, Purdue University's reaction was sharply defined. "Basically, we had to adhere to the state laws of Indiana," stated Dr. William Grier, assistant Dean of Students. "Our basic policy is no alcohol in any undergraduate dormitory or campus building, but exceptions have been made in the case of married, or graduate dorms and the Union Hotel, which is the campus student center. Once again, only those of legal age can have the alcohol." 
Student Body President John Glunt concurred, saying that "there has been no effort to change anything." "The University seems to be sitting bac\{, waiting to see what happens." 
When asked if there had been any problems, Dr. Grier replied, "Oh, hell yes! Our students are just like anywhere else, but the rules have to be strictly en­forced. Student offenders have been consistently warned and some put on probation. So far, that is the 
by Lonnie Luna Staff Reporter 
The HPC finalized plans for the North Quad Mardi Gras party at a meeting last night in the basement of Keenan Hall. A discussion of plans for this semester also highlighted the meeting. 
"The HPC has spent a lot of time with Dan Sullivan, Mardi Gras Chairman, to investigate and correct future Mardi Gras problems," HPC Chairman Bob Howl said. 
The North Quad will be sponsoring a party Saturday night, Feb. 1, in the North Dining Hall to kick off the Mardi Gras celebration. All residents of the North Quad, excluding St. Ed's and Cavanaugh Halls, will be admitted free with their meal cards. Guests will pay one dollar to attend the festival. 
The HPC has engaged Eaton Rock, a band from Chicago, to provide music for the party. "Compared to previous years, it is the best band we have ever ·had," Grace Hall President Tom Porter noted. 
Bob Howl explained the HPC priorities for this semester. 

"We are planning our strategy on the school calendar issue and on the housing problem," Howl added. 
Several members of the HPC also commented on the proposed change in the role of the Student Life Council. 
"The SLC cannot decide on major issues. They have too many committees," Cavanaugh President Tom Hogan stated. 
"The SLC is made up of faculty members, ad­ministrators and students and is there to represent the Notre Dame community. For this reason, I agree with Pat McLaughlin that the SLC should have more power," Hogan noted. 
Dillon Hall President Elton Johnson noted that the HPCis currently the "most influential body that is organizing to get more done," He agreed that the SLC should be given more power. 
Fisher Hall President Rich Morton commented on the widely-publicized Flanner expulsions. "It is indeed 
a. da~gerous precedent when a rector can arbitrarily dism1ss or force a student off-campus due to certain circumstances and then offer no explanations except "no comment"," he said. 
----------------------------------------------~~~---­

warld briefs 
EAST LANSING, Mich. (UPI) -Former energy czar John C. Sawhill said Tuesday that President Ford's energy proposals would cause "massive economic disruption" without solving the nation's fuel rpoblems. 
Sawhill told students at Michigan State University that Ford's proposal to Increase the tariff on imported oil and impose an exci~e tax on domestic crude oil "could well aggravate our economic difficulties." 
ANKARA <UPI> -Turkey announced Tuesday it is withdrawing 1,000 troops from the force that is holding one-third of Cyprus captured in last summer's war. 
SAN LUIS POTOSI, Mexico <UPI> -Government authorities Tuesday blamed "small groups of extremists" trying to weaken the country for a wave of bombing attacks in three Mexican cities which left five dead and nearly 30 injured. 
an campus taday 
wednesday, january 29, 1975 

4:15 p.m.--seminar, "research and sponsored program activities within the college," by dr. frank kobayashi, board rm., hayes­healy. 
4:30 p.m.--lecture, "protein conformation on the regulation of enzyme activity," by prof. koshland, rm. 123, nieuwland 
5 p.m.--vespers, evensong, log chapel 
6:30 p.m.--meeting, scholastic writers, scholastic office 
7:30 p.m.--american scene, "the concept of sin in american life," by fr. tad guzie, carroll hall, madeleva bldg. 
7:30, 9:30, 11:30 p.m.--film, woody allen film festival, $1, eng. aud. 
8 p.m.--lecture, "politics and progress: a new approach in the 70's" by barbara mikulski, lib. aud. 
8 p.m.--panel discussion, "epic starvation series, energy end of an era," lib lounge 
8:15 p.m.--concert, sue henderson seid, organist, sacred heart church. 
At anniversary meeting 
Carpeting ends controversy at SMC dining hall 
The controversy over the issue of carpet installation in the SMC Dining Hall has apparently ended. Work on installing the carpet was due to be completed today. 
Opposition to carpeting the dining hall surfaced in October when Patrice Rooney sponsored a petition questioning the prac­ticality and advisability of the carpet. Rooney suggested that funds allocated for the carpet would be better spent on expanding the school's sports program and improvoing educational facilities. 
The petition arrived at the Student Affairs Office too late, however. as the carpet for the dining hall, as well as new car­peting for the residence halls, had already been ordered. 
Stevie Wernig, Assistant to the V -P for S.A., said that the car­peting was suggested by a student and was discussed by the Ad. Hoc. Committee on Student Lifestyles of the Board of Regents. A student member of the committee, however, stated she did not recall the subject of dining hall carpeting specifically being discussed. 
Legislative Commissioner Joanne Garrett stated, "At first, I viewed the carpeting with prejudice, thinking spaghetti sauce would be ground into it at every turn. Now I can only hope it'll work out since it is installed." 
Saga Manager Charles Flaim stated that carpeting has been an asset in every school cafeteria in which he has worked. He listed saving on the cost of cleaning and noise reduction as the carpet's primary virtues. 
SMC Law Society elects new officers 
by Teresa Kerley Staff Reporter 

January 26th marked the first anniversary of the St. Mary's Law Society. The first set of officers retired having seen the society grow from just a handful of students to its present membership of forty-eight. 
Looking back on its initial year, outgoing President Marikaye Flyke, ('75) noted that with the help of faculty advisor Dr. Deanna Sokolowski, the foundation of the society had been set and is now well organized. Flyke pointed out that the program has expanded to include guest speakers, representing many phases of the law: an excellent series of LSAT prep sessions run by Dr. Donald Miller of the SMC Math depart­mPnt and Dr. Myron Sokolowski, a South Bend patent attorney; and an extremely successful Law Day panel discussion which included several lawyers and state officials. 
Flyke emphasized that part of the reason for the society's rapid growth was that it did not curry just to those immediately in­terested in law careers, but also welcomed those simply seeking to explore whether or not their majors might lead to this field in the future. 
The new President Mozelle De Long. ('76 l is a sociology major working on an internship with the F:lkhart Probation and Parole Adult Team. 
DeLong sees her role as that of continuing the existing programs and introducing new areas in an pffort to give everyone a more well-rounded exposure to the rlifferent aspects of law. 
MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES 
*  2 FILMS  
*  BOOKSTORE  
*  LIVE FLOOR SHOW  

1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
~ ~ 
:~~~r ALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION:I1~\ 
These plans include bringing in nationally known speakers, par­ticipating in short term intern projects in the South Bend area, involvement in community ac­tivities and a solid Law Day presentation this spring. It was decided that to defray the expenses this will entail, a fifty-cent dues would be charged per semester. 
The other new officers are: Jan Schlitz '77, vice-president; Teresa Kerley '76 secretary-treasurer; and Marsha Blythe '77, publicity chairwoman. 
Even with the great response the society has enjoyed, new mem­bers, in any major are always wt•lcomed, Kerley noted. 
So in this second year, with the support of all involved, the society is confident that it can continue to provide a much needed service for St. Mary's students she added. 

Student Gov't Productions 
presents 
Jazz at the 


Nazz 
with Erg's Finger Circus Time: 10 pm Basement of LaFortune 
JUNIORS Save yourself $10. Get your senior pictures taken this spring. Appointments can be made by calling 7524 
between 7-9 pm Wed. (Jan. 29) or Thurs (Jan 30). 

STEAK HOUSE 


TUESDAY & THURSDAY SPECIAL 
RIBEYE or CHOPPED SIRLOIN DINNER 
$1.39 (regular $1.79) 
DINNER MENU: SIRLOIN STEAK DINNER 2.29 RIBEYE STEAK DINNER 1.79 CHOPPED SIRLOIN STEAK DINNER 1.79 CHOPPED SIRLOIN SAND­
WICH  1.59  
T-BONE STEAK DINNER  3.79  
HAM STEAK DINNER  1.99  

HAM STEAK SANDWICH 1.69 FISH DINNER 1.69 FISH SANDWICH 1.59 CHICKEN DINNER (4 Pieces) 2.69 SHRIMP DINNER (21 Pieces) 2.59 HAMBURGER PLATTER, 
FRIES .99 

ALL ABOVE DINNERS INCLUDE BAKED POTATO OR FRENCH FRIES, SALAD, & TOAST. SANDWICHES INCLUDE POTATOES OR SALAD. 
.m. 7 DAYS A WEEK

OPEN 11:00 a.m.· 9:00
...._._.;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~------------&.....----~;..,;,...;;,.,;;....;;..,;,;;;.,;;,;,;;.,;;,_~ 

Wednesday, January 29, 1975 
the observer 

At SMC this week 
Conference to inform alumnae 
by Marjorie Irr Staff Reporter 

Informing alumnae represen­tatives about St. Mary's today and helping representatives with the clubs in their towns were the two main purposes outlined by Diane Davis, alumnae director, for this week's Alumnae Representatives Conference at SMC. 
Davis explained the importance 

Mardi Gras bussing continues 
by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter 

Saturday, February 1, will witness the opening of the Mardi Gras activities for 1975. The raffle, the booths, the gambling--all the traditional trappings of past festivals will once more be in evidence. 
And, as in past years, women from various Midwest colleges have been invited to attend the celebration. On Saturday morning the buses will again arrive and their passengers will disembark, to board the buses again on Sunday and return to their respective schools. 
The attendance of Midwest college women at last year's Mardi Gras festivities was followed by the famous "cattle-drive" con­troversy. The resentment of some Notre Dame women to the "shipping in" of "outsiders", and the decision of Student Affairs to terminate that practice left serious doubts as to whether or not any of the women's colllges would be invited this year. 
Nevertheless approximately 350 women from Xavier, Madonna, St. John's, Rosary, Mt. Mary, St. Mary-of-the-Woods, Alverno, Mundelein, and Mercy colleges will be present this weekend at invitation of Zahm, Grace, Keenan and Stanford residence halls. 
All those involved in the matter, 
however, are anxious that the 
women's presence not be in­
terpreted as a slight to the women 

On Feb. 2 
SHARE reopens student center 
Realizing the need for a more totally involved community, a group of St. Mary's and Notre Dame students have organized a new student counselling service and information center called 
S.H.A.R.E. <Student Help and Hesource Endeavor).
SHARE is totally directed and operated by students; confidential peer counselling is provided by trained student volunteers. A listening center and an outreach program are the two distinct facets. 
The walk-in listening center is for students who want to discuss a problem or who want to talk about just anything. "Listeners" who have completed the SHARE training sessions are there to listen and to suggest alternative courses of action. 
All information is kept in the strictest of confidence. Those who don't wish to talk face-to-face can call the hotline at 4311. 
The center is located in room 15, in the basement of Holy Cross Hall at St. Mary's. Beginning February 2, SHARE will reopen for second semester, from 8:00 to 12:00 from Sunday through Thursday, and from 8:00 to 2:00 on Friday and Saturday nights. Both Notre Dame and St. Mary's students are en­couraged to take advantage of this service. 
SHARE volunteers have com­pleted training in such areas as 

sensitivity, munication  listening skills,  and com­crisis in­ 
tervention,  human  sexuality,  

drugs, alcohol, academic and social adjustments, and referrals. 
Training is provided byprofessional counsellors, health service personnel, and volunteers 

of keeping alumnae represen­tatives well informed and up to date about the college. "It's a lot different than it was ten and twenty years ago," said Davis. Also of major concern will be problems encountered by clubs regarding memberships and communications. 
Meetings will be held through the week with the administration, student government officials and representatives from the ad-
of Notre Dame. 
"If the situation were reversed," said Keenan Hall president Biff King, "and a bunch of other men were being shipped in, I'd probably feel slighted, like we were inferior or something. I believe, though, that this thing will phase out in a few years." 
King pointed out that no specific activities or direct plans have been made for the visitors, as in years past. 
"The other girls are sidelight to the Notre Dame girls," remarked Dave Yates, who helped the women's colleges with hotel reservations and schedules. "There's no need for competition. The other colleges have always come at Mardi Gras, but this is the last official year of it. It's being gradually phased out." 
Yates noted that whereas over 900 women had customarily been invited before co-education at Notre Dame, last year's guests numbered less than 600 and this year's less than 350. 
"We refused some colleges' requests to attend this year," said Yates. "Those that are coming are the traditional schools that have always come in the past." 
Commenting on attitudes similar to those which surfaced during last year's controversy, Farley Hall president Donna Crowley stated, "It creates a bad atmosphere and puts a damper on Mardi Gras. It subdues things . We want to avoid that this year." 

from the South Bend area with a established. These materials ca•• 
background in listening skills, and be borrowed. 
in personal and drug problems. Outreach is the second facet of A meeting for all present 
the SHARE program. Instituted SHARE volunteers is scheduled for just this year, plans for presen­Thursday, January 30, at 6:30p.m. tations for second semester are in room 15, Holy Cross Hall, St. now being formulated. Mary's. Anyone interested in A research library with learning more about SHARE or in materials on current problems and joining the staff is welcome to topics such as drugs, relationships, attend. If unable to attend, call women's rights, etc., is also 
being Kathy at 4560, or Mary Lu at 4436. 
EUROPE BOUND 
IN '75? 

wouldn't you rather come with us? 
Last year over 200,000 studPnts summered in Europe. And the travelwise flew on charters because it costs about HALF! This year a J -6 week ticket to London is $512.; ~ -J weeker $597. And its $?67. for over six weeks from New York. (That's what the airlines say now. Last year there were two unforr.a~t increases:) 
~~~e o;!~rd~h~~~e f~t ~;~:s uto::, h~~ f 6, b7~ ~~u 9~ 8 ~0j~:;k a~~~: ation 1iuring the numl"''of!r. And all you have to do tQ qualify is r~Herve your :Jeat now hy sending $100. clepo~it, plu.; $10. regi!;trat.ion fee. IInder recently new tr. S. Government ree­ulation.' we mH:.t m.bmit all fli~ht participants narne~ anrl full payment. s.ixt.y day!: he fore each flight. If you takt'-! the June ..n-Augu!.:t ]') fl1ght to London for exall'ple, depot>it r·,~­serve::: your sear and April 1; you send the $199. balance. ,Just one price for a1l flight::; whether you pick a WP.ekend departure ($1S. ext.r·H on the reeular rare airline:...) or p~ak season r.urcharjle date. 
So _;end for our· complete :~r.hedule, or to be ~;ure c:f your re­:;er-•:<H.iou 11ow, ~~~-,J 1 •;r ur· d~po~lt for· one of our· 1 to ~· Wf!ekly dP,parttu·e: from .lwl.t: t.JJT'~'ur:h :ieptember. .Ju:;l ~;pecit'y thf' Wf!ek ynu wnnt td trav,·l 'itld for· how to11 1 ~. You will r-r:cniv'~ yo,Jr­exact. 1iate conJ'irruat.i,)nanrlrec~dpt l1y return mail. AJJ o\u· f 1i1•ht ::are via 1'11 lly ,·clrtificat (~\1, <i. ;;. ;~nvernu11!11t. :.t.ar:d.;, rd jt>t ."'nd .1.11 rir-.. t. cl.-t:-:. ,;ervlct:. ~rr1m I.ondou thf:rf: ~r·e rnA1.y studP.nt fli~hl:. 1.1 l:I)J J·ar·t..; .,f lhf' r.f,ntiner.t, freqUJ,r,l lif:­partur·e:; and many at , 1 ofr the re;ruJar farr:. 
REPUBI tC AIR SYSTEMS INTE~N.A.TION.A.I 
aoo -223 -5389 
(TOLL FREE) 
Charter flying is 
the biggest bargain 
in air travel today 
missions and publications offices. 
Representatives attending the conference include alumnae of­ficials working here at the college in addition to 20 presidents and club officials from various cities throughout the country. During the week, the alumnae will stay in the dormitories with students. 
Concerning the changes they have found, most of the alumnae commented on the abolishment of rules regarding smoking, curfews 
Saturday night the nine residence halls on the North Quad will sponsor a dance in the North Dining Hall. All students who live on the North Quad will be admitted free. Anyone else who attends, including the visiting women will have to pay $1 admission. 
Yates explained that each of the nine halls paid a percentage of the cost of the dance. Those four halls that invited the visiting women paid extra for their guests. 
"The purpose in the party is to include everyone on the North Quad," explained Flanner Hall president Frank McGuire. "We want to accommodate everyone and alleviate the bad feelings from last year." 
the observer 
Night Editor: Rick Blower 
Ass't Nite Editor: Mary Janca Layout: Maureen Sajbel, Maggie Waltman, Martha Fanning Copy Reader: Ken Bradford Day Editor: Ken Girouard 
Editorial: Dan Sanchez, Features: Norm Bower 
Typists: 0. Roos, Tom Modglin, Jim Landis, M. Corr Picture Screener: Albert D'An­
tonio  
Compugraphic:  Phil Orscheln  
Nite Controller:  M.J. Foley  

' 
Sports: Greg Corgan, Bill Delaney 

and dress codes. "Today, there's order without the strict discipline we had," said a representative from the class of '60. 
Upon learning that students are 
· now permitted to smoke in their dormitories, one alumnae quipped, "I'm amazed to see that LeMans hasn't burned down l" 
General approval was voiced on the casual dress of students today in contrast to uniforms and the practice of dressing up for dinner, which were required until the mid­sixties. "The only place you ever wore jeans was to phys. ed. class on Saturday mornings. And even on the hottest day in May you couldn't go outside wearing jeans without a coat," said a member of the class of '57. 
"The students today, though, arent' as sloppy as they were a few years ago," she observed. 
Another area of marked change was said to be that of com­munication between ad­ministration and student body. "The president of t!le college was like the President of the United States to us," observed an 
N 0 W 

COCONUT 
AND 

SOUTH SHORE 

~St,~(la ~ 

. NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS 
on US. 31 bttween llies, So. B•d-Free Partin&-6&1-ilSO. 
COMING FEB 12: SUGAR LOAF 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond.1 _Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 

alumna.' Freshmen now complain of limiting curfew hours during first semester. In the late fifties all girls had to be in the dorm by ten and lights had to be out by mid­night. 
Opinions about the parietal system were offered by alumnae. Some were in favor of more liberal hours and controls. "If they're going to have parietals, they should be more open. I don't think it's really necessary to have all dorm entrances locked either," advanced one alumna. 
The problem of uninvited out­siders wandering into the dorms was cited. "The girls should be made aware and campus security should. be on the watch for that," said one alumna. 
In spite of all the changes though, it was generally agreed that the spirit is still here, and that 
is what means the most. As one sentimental alumna observed, "I can walk down the same halls that I did fifteen years ago and feel the same spirit as when I was a student. It's changed a lot, but it's still St. Mary's." 
Crisis Looming •1n South Africa 
by Tim Currier 
movement faced severe state repression and Apartheid\ by definition Is the South the Afrikaner or Boer (farmer) descen­staggered on until 1960. In that year aAfrican Government's segregationist policy dents, and In 1835 they began a migration peaceful demonstration at Sharpvllle, nearwhich In theory supports separate racial into the Interior to escape British rule. This Johannesburg, was fired on by pollee -­development. According to this theory, the Great trek, or wandering, Involved there were sixty-nine deaths, and oneseventeen million black South Africans conflict with the tribes and produced two hundred and seventy-eight Injuries. Theshould be satisfied with their eight separate Boer republics In the Interior --the Orange apartheid followed
tribal "homelands" or Bantustans;whlch Free State and the Transvaal. Both had government up this 
incident by banning the nationalist
make up 13 percent of the country's racist constitutions declaring 'no equality In organizations, namely the African Nationalgeographical area. In practice the great church and state', Congress and a splinter group called themajority of black South Africans have been The uneasy balance between these Boer Pan-Africanlst Congress. SInce that timeeconomically Integrated. drawn out of their ~epublics and the British colonial power on the African nationalist movement has been reserves Into the white-controlled modern the coast was upset by the discovery of gold forced underground and Into exile. Theeconomy. It Is claimed that this modern in the Transvaal In 1886. This plus the Southern Africa.


resu It is escalating guerilla warfare In
economy, comprising 87 percent of the scramble for , produced the South country, belongs to the four million whites African 1or Boer War of 1899-1902. Although 

Southern Africa, ~nderstandlng between blacks and whites, This escalating civil war has now brought rncluding the liberation movements,who Jre In fact totally dependent on black the British won this bitter conflict they about a sharp clash between church and conscientious objection seems the onlylabor. As a result of South Africa's .In­J·ost the peace. In an effort to heal the state. In 1926 Archbishop Denis Hurley of possibleC 1rlstlan stand " 
dustrial revolution the vast majority of wounds of Inter-white conflict a Union of individuals In the "white" areas are black. South Africa was formed under a rasclst Durban, South Africa, received and South -t frica stands t~day a~ a challenge Honorary Doctorate from Notre Dame_ for
These black Sol th Africans, efficiently constitution giving power to an all-white to the American people because of the exploited In themodern economy, are denied parliament. It Is from within this his stand against his country's policy of basic contradictions that exist In our apartheid. and
civil liberties where they live and work. parliament that the majority of whites-the After the recent sudden relationship with that country. Our Under apartheid they must vote for a tribal 60 percent making up the Afrikaner nation -collapse of Portugese rule ir. nelghbourlnh economic entanglements and our belief in government in some remote Bantustan, a have come to power. ~ozambique, he focused on conscientious universal human rights are strange bed­"homeland"whlch is In fact an area of acute objection, In essence his argument was that felloWS!. Moreover, the apartheid policies of population congestion and decaying It was under Dr. Malan and his suc­to join the South African armed forces was South Africa pose a special challenge to us 
agriculture. An all white,parliame'lt stand~ cessors, for example the present Prime to enter a war in defence of injustice. He here at Notre Dame, a challenge to support at the apex of this structure dominating the Minister, Vaster, that the Afrikaner concluded: "Unless we can claim that a the Christian conscience in Its confrontation Nationalist Party moved to establish strenuous effort has been made to reach with the South African regime.
lives of all South Africans. It was in modern systems in the' years after Worldreaction to this system of efficient racial War II. The leglistion lnvolvedincluded the exploitation that the United Nations sought Suppression Act of 1950. Under this Act,to expel South Africa. As we know it was anyone who encouraged civil dlsobedlance,only the triple veto of France, Great Brittan 



A Commentary
or a passive resister. could be deemed aand the U.S.A. which prevented it. 
Communist and banned. In short, Although apartheid has become an In­the Act was a1med at any movement that by Peter Walshecreasingly precise· Instrument of racial night threaten apartheid. More specifically Americans are not unfamiliar with the conflict, with p~ople of the same -countrydiscrimination, the roots of this segrgatlon it was designed to check the African moral issues of conscientious fighting each other'. Hurley's views can bego back centuries. The white man first National Congress which had been objection. The South African summed up as follows:arrived on South Africa In 1652 when the 

'founded in 1912 and had slowly developed In military build-up in defence of apartheid
Dutch East India Company established i. If South Africa gets Involved in a
opposition to the strengthening patterns of now raises these issues In a particularly
Itself at the Cape of Good Hope. The pur­border war, this war will have been
segregation. Further legislative exam­blunt form for South Africans. But this Is
pose was to maintain a supply station for provoked by the policy of apartheid.
ples involve the Group Areas Act, which not simply a remote African issue. Over
the eastern trade. Slowly Dutch numbers forced separate areas of residence, and the hundred American ii. To defend white South African society

Increased, German Immigrants arrived and three major cor­
Immorality Act, which prohibited marriage porations are deeply involved In the South by force of arms is to defend the policy of a party of French Hugenots. From these 
across color lines. African economy, including Chase apartheid'
settlers the white Afrikaner nation was to Manhatten, Ford and Polaroid. The result iii. To defend apartheid is to defend anevolve on confrontation with the black tribes Matters came to a head in the 1950swhen is increasing Industrial might, for example unjust cause.

and British Imperialism. the African National Congress and the South in vehicle production and electronics, iv. It is not permissable for Christians toDuring the Napoleonic wars, the British African Indian Congress joined for res in a directly related to the South African fight an unjust war. 

saw the advantages of securing the Cape passive resistance campaign, for example, military build-up. The conscientious objectors of Southregion and so took over the colony In 1806. volunteer resisters entered the 'whites only' As Archbishop Denis Hurley of Durban has Africa will need our moral support In theBritish law, the freeing of slaves and entrances . to public buildings. At its height now pointed out to defend apartheid Is to inevitable clash with their racist regime.

English settlers followed. This new in 1952 under the leadership of Nobel Peace defend injustice In what he sees as a 'civil There should also be some serious pressure stringent control proved to be too much for Prize recipient Albert Luthull, the 

on South Africa from the U.S. government and corporations. Fr. Hesburgh has spoken with compassion and insight on third world issues · for example at the Thanksgiving Mass. On that occasslon he reminded us how important it Is to examine critically the social structures around us. As a Christian, a priest and a director of Chase Manhattan, Fr. Hesburgh must use his moral authority to see that the Bank challenges the racist structures of South Africa · or withdraws from the apartheid context. 

Feeding the South Bend Poor 
Notre Dame has recently become a center people are unable to use the food stamp or receives a free lunch. for the same size by Pat F/yn n for intellectual discussion concerning the welfare programs because they are unable family with an income of $7900 (about 150 Finally, Quinlivan pointed out that church world food crisis. to get downtown to the agency offices. dollars a v.:-eek). there is a 15 cent charge. agenci.es such as St. Vincent DePaul, the 
Since last semester the Non-Violence The Meals on Wheels program, located at For a family of eight, the free and 15 cent Salvation Army, and some of the parishes of Department has held' a series of panel the YMCA center on Lafayette Street In gradations are $8810 and $12,240," she noted. South .Ben.d fil.l i.n the gap left by the welfare discussions on the hunger crisis. Mean-South Bend, is attempting to aid these . C?uinlivan also explained that people agencies '" a1dmg the poor. "All of these while, Fr. Hesburgh has given sermons to people. Mrs. Jane Marce, founder of the hvmg at a bare level of subsistence have no agencies do good work and are well-loved by overflow crowds in Sacred Heart Church on program, explained, "Our program is financial security for extraordinary ex-th~ people they serve," he said. the moral aspects of the issue. In addition, designed to try and bring people stranded in penses. "If there is death in the family, or Of_ten: however, when these members of the Campus Ministry Staff have ther homes because of sickness or lack of the windows are broken, there is no extra ?rganlzatl~ns do help out, welfare workers written columns concerning the problem. transportation at least one good nutritious ~oney for it. Usually the family must go mterpret It simply as a way of letting And the Dining Hall has provided students meal each day. We have the meals mto debt, or just let the thing go." themselves off the hook. There is with one special meal of rice and tea, in-prepared at Memorial Hospital and then Quinlivan explained more of the details of tremendou~ pressure ~n these agencies to eluding Anti-Hunger Day activities this take them by car to homebound people the welfare system of South Bend. "Very be tough With the poor m order to keep the Sunday. within a five mile radius of the hospital." few people realize that most of the people welfare budget down." 
With these type of global concerns, Marce added that elderly people unable to on welfare are children. The largest chunk He added that, "There is an American however, has Notre Dame's urban neighbor cook because of sickness are also served by of the welfare budget derives from Aid to ~yth that P?Verty and disease are self in­been overlooked? Is there hunger and the Meals on Wheels service. Dependent Children (ADC) which covers fhcted. Soc1ety creates the poor and then destitution in South Bend as well as in School children from poor families are families with no husband living at home. ha.~es them." Bangladesh? also subject of hunger and poor nutrition. The second largest group is the elderly." The problems of the poor, however, do 
I posed this question to Frank Quinlivan, a One fairly successful governmental aid "~ lderly people on fixed incomes Holy Cross priest, who is heading the social program has been the school lunch plan. r~celving social security and a small pen-ministry work at the Justice and Peace Mrs. Gennle Trigg, head of the South Bend Slon also have a hard time making ends 
Center of South Bend. Quinlivan replied, school food distribution service explained meet, especially with inflation and high "Of course the problem Is not anything like the basic workings of the plan. unemployment. It is a seller's market. that of the famine areas In Asia or Africa, "The lunch program is based on a Unemployment is down and food prices are but every week In my work I encounter graduated scale of lunch prices for children way up. The economy does not In any way 
people who have not eaten for days. It Is a from different economic backgrounds. The favor the poor," Quinlivan said. symptom, I guess, of what you might call maximum price per day for all lunches Persons on ADC get $150 a month, plus $50· the agency cycle." served at the school is 40 cents In the for 7~ery dependent child. One way poor 
Quinlivan explained that 80 percent of the elementary schools, 45 cents In the junior fa'!ul1es often stretch their food budget is to people on welfare in South Bend are what he high school and cents In the high ex1t for weeks on coffee and popcorn.
50 

termed "deficit budgeted." "Each month schools," Trigg said. Popcorn is very filling and cheap and so Is they draw less money from their welfare Trigg explained that for children from coffee. Out of this must come rent, utilities checks than it costs them to live. The poor families these prices are reduced on a and food stamps. These alone usually ab-
welfare agencies believe that they are d sorb 90 percent of the welfare check.
1

·v·lng their people enough money to exist on graduate scale re ative to the family In-Two years. a.go peo.ple were talking about
gl come and size. Children from families $500 1

the subsistence level." But according to as a .m .mmum 1.ncome for a fa~ily of Quinlivan it Is almost always not enough. receiving less than a certain income receive four. Qumllvan believed that this figure, Home b' d ld I I I lunch free. "For a family of four with an adjusted for the inflation of those two years, 
frequent! o~n net er Yd hpeop e aMre a~~ annual income of under $5640 (about 100 would be more representative of the true Y es 1 u e an ungry. any o dollars a week). every child in the family subsistence level. 


the glorious oblivion 
by tim o'reiley 
Venice is a one and only city, which the residents know better than anyone else. When the city's political power was broken in the sixteenth century, they gradually developed tourism, which exploited the uniqueness of Venice, and compensated for the trade lost with the power. 
After spending so much time in Germanic countries, just being in Italy is notably different. It is the difference between beer and wine. Northern Italians are impeccably tailored, enjoy a long cup of cappucino in the bars, and seek what bits of Ia vita dolce that they can find. Even the language seems smoother and more expressive<especially since Italians talk a lot with their hands.) 
Venice carries this one step further. The main part of Venice stands on what seems like two islands, but is really many islands bridged together. The twisted maze of canals and streets that developed is so bizarre. that even maps do little good. To tnake things harder, the Grand Canal snakes between the two islands and is spanned by only three bridges, so finding a way to cross the canal by foot is no certain thing. 
Despite these hazards, the city is a pedestrian pardise. The narrowness and irrationality of the streets, coupled with the canals, puts the car off limits here. It is _ to stroll around and see what it was like centuries ago. In fact, cars seem rude and out-of-place when leaving the dreamlike foot and boat world of Venice. 
The dream is being threatened, however, since the whole city is sinking at an alarming rate. The weight of the buildings and the onslaught of the Adriatic have been at work for many years, yet remedies for the sinking have yet to pass the paper stage. In the meantime, bell towers tilt, floors warp and water laps over door steps that used to be dry. 


In this criSIS, the Venetians hold the fate of the city whose beauty they love to extoll. Restoration projects of numerousbuildings are underway, but these have only a cosmetic effect. If the necessary, radical surgery is not per­formed, Venice will slide into oblivion, while admiring itself with a gold-framed mirror. 
Picture: docked gondolas 
The dream that stirs every Venetian, two gondolas at every dock. A lot of these still cruise the green, and sometimes stinking canals, but only the taxis are still propelled by pole. The rest have motors, and are used for business,since the canals are the real streets of Venice. 
Picture: narrow street 
These are the "other streets" of Venice, obviously too narrow to handle anything but foot traffic. Fortunately, the apart­ments here on Calle de la Madonna, like all the other residences, have inner courtyards. 
Here the residents hang out their clothes, shout across to their neighbors, and put their trash on the front doorstep for the garbage wagon in the morning. For the 20th century, power lines were added on the wall. 
Picture: Piazza San Marco 
Flooded by people. pigeons, and water, the Basilisca and Piazza San Marco remain the center of Venice. When the high tide comes bubbling through the bricks, the people head for the elevated planks, and the pigeons for higher perches. When the tide is out, both people and pigeons come down to entertain each other. The Basilica, in the background, is so covered with Byzantine mosaics and bric-brac, that it is the sort of thing loved or hated with a passion. Though this is the largest, church squares provide the only open space in Venice. 
Picture: buildings along Grand Canal Along the eastern end of the Grand Canal, these are some of the buildings where Venice's great trade was conducted. The architecture poses a mixture of the far eastern influence with the Renaissance. Also, this is the scene of the annual gondola race, one of the most festive events on the Venitian calender. 


medieval themes in a rock s~tting 
by kathy skiba and bill murray 
At 8:15 on November 14 over the ACC public address system it was announced, "Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Gryphon." Less than three hours later, the group that had preceded Yes was backstage amidst the remains of a pre~oncert chicken and wine feast, the second stop on a 30 concert tour completed. 
Bass guitarist Malcolm Bennett and equipment manager David Williams, known as "Willie" to the bandmembers, were discussing the effort that goes behind Gryphon's first concert tour outside England. 
Bennett talked about the concept of a warm-up group. "Often, we come out to the audience cold. They have no idea we're going to appear," he cited. "An audience generally expects a lesser rock group for the warmup, but we give them something different. Straight away, we have the ad­vantage." This advantage was quite evident earlier that evening as Gryphon played four compositions, each accentuated by the unique sound of their medieval themes, which seemed to catch the audience by surprise. Instead of boring them with second-rate renditions of-rock songs, Gryphon captured their attention with a new and different sound. 
Gryphon's music is a combination of classical and medieval themes in a modern rock setting. This unique blend is the result of the musical endeavors of five musicians from London: David Oberle (percussion), (}raeme Taylor <guitar), Richard Harvey <keyboards, wind instruments), Brian Gulland <bassoon, crumhornl, and Bennett. 
Each has some background in classical music. This influence was cultivated when they worked as classical musicians in London. The medieval flavor may be credited to Richard Harvey who previously was a member of Musica Resserata, a professional medieval music company. 
Gryphon's relationship with Yes began after several professional contacts, ac­cording to Bennett. Resultantly, Yes heard Gryphon perform, liked what they heard and signed them to perform on their 1974 Winter Tour. Both groups now work under the same manager, Brian Lane. "All their people have been very helpful to us," Willie commented. Grypho~. however, is well aware that the "big-brother" image can be dangerous after a point, and Gryphon is definitely setting out on their own. They have already cut two albums in England, each of which is heavily flavored with their medieval sound. Their third album, "Red Queen to Gryphon Three" was recently released on both sides of the Atlantic. 

Bennett told how the group is going about increasing their commercial success in Britain. "Melody Maker (an English music weekly) likes us and gave us good reviews on our last album,'' he said. Now Gryphon is hoping that good reviews of their American tour will get back to England and step up record sales. Eventually they hope to be as popular in America as they are becoming in England. 
Comparing their Notre Dame appearance to the previous night's show in Madison, 
Wisconsin,  Bennett  was  "very  pleased"  
with the performance.  
"Last  night  we  could  tell  that  a  few  

<technical) things had gone wrong. The spirit was there last night, but tonight it was better. It takes about five days on _a tour to get the equipment, that is, the lighting and sound system, working well." 
The style of music which Gryphon plays requires a great deal of equipment and a high degree of efficiency. 
"We work with a lot of equipment that goes in front of Yes," commented Williams. Again, he made mention of the fact that the Yl.'s crew gave them assistance. "We work with a relatively low budget, and all of the Yes crew has been willing to lend a hand." 
When asked about the rigors of a tour that has 30 shows in 34 days, Bennett maintained that it is "just a matter of surviving." Being their first trip outside of Britain, the ex­perience seemed to make them a bit more apprehensive. "It's really freaky to imagine what it's going to be like," Bennett remarked. "We'll return to England around Christmas time and then take a little time to relax." 
Today Gryphon is back in England, their pace a bit slower than that of the recently 
completed  American tour,  they  are  con­ 
templating  their  next  venture  of  their  
musical development.  

Infirmary swamped 



:--N~~-~~;~~E~~~~~~ I 
t \ t
Flu epidemic hits ND-SM t$200-$500 CASH REBATESt 
patients was reached. The total nurses up to 10:30 p.m. and the 

t ' t
by Shawn Scannell declined over the weekend, but is Infirmary opens at 7 a.m. Staff Reporter * MUSTANG II'S t
reported up again. The level is A spokesman for the Depart­t unusual and is a direct result of the ment of Health in South Bnend 
t t
wide spread effect of the "flu," noted that absenteeism at several has hit Notre Dame, according to Hartrich noted. industries in the area is up to 10 
A large-scale attack of influenza 

t * MAVERICKS t 
Student Infirmary Administrator Students are asked to realize percent from a normal 5 percent. Sr. Miriam Dolores Hartrich. that there is a backlog to be treated As well, the number absent from So many have been coming in and to have patience if they must area high schools is twice normal 

I * PINTOS I
that there has been a need for wait to see a doctor, Hartrich said. and in elementary schools at­"slight restriction" of 
She noted that students tend to tendance is lower than usual due to students getting doctors' attention arrive in waves at the end of class the health conditions. All in all, the 

: For a better deal on any new :
periods with complaints of feeling flu's .effect has made the ab­She said the doctors have been poorly. Everyone is working as senteeism level "significantly to the seriously ill, Hartrich noted. 

t or used Ford. call Joe, our t 
doing their best to see as many efficiently as possible to care for higher" than last year at this time, students as possible, but there has those ill and some wait may be she said. t campus representative, f been a great enough load to inevitable, she added. The St. Mary's Student In-necessitate the restriction. Calling ahead is a good idea to firmary could give "no comment" t at 232-4736 t 
An ill student reporting with see if a possible long walk to the on the influenza as it relates to the eomplaints of the "flu" is first Infirmary might be in vain if the SMC campus. t t t>xamined by a nurse, who decides 
back-up is too great, Hartrich said. As means to curb this if the eondition merits seeing one She advised anyone coming after "epidemic," Hartrich suggested 

t JOE HAYDEN FORD & :
3:30 that they may be unable to see "reasonable care" of one's health 
Following the nurse's a doctor if there isa line, because and to try to avoid "undue ex­t•xamination or one made by a the doctors must leave for other posure," in the winter season of the doctors. 

I LINCOLN/MERCURY t 
doctor. medication is prescribed business on time. A call ahead at especially. The illness is not un­for the student. Seriously ill 7497 in the afternoon would serve to heatable and maintenance of one's 

f On U.S. 31 in Niles 683-3920 
students may be asked to remain be sure of seeing a doctor health is not impossible with good f (3 miles past state line)overnight as inpatients. there is a serious need, she noted. rest and general good sense, she 
~~~~~~~---~~~~~------~._.
Last week a peak total of 25 Students will be accepted by ~o_b_se_r_v_e_d_.----------------------=----------------! 
SMC toparticipatein ND tea and rice 1neal 
by Mary Janca 
students who fast, Dongarra ex­St. Mary's Editor plained. 
The tea and rice meal sponsored St. Mary's students who wish to by the Hunger Coalition on Sunday participate in the rice and tea meal is also open to St. Mary's students, at Notre Dame must obtain a ticket acccording to Debbie Dunlap, from Dongarra, Dunlap, or member of the Hunger Coalition. another member of the Hunger 
SMC students who decide to Coalition, for 75 cents. participate in the meal, said "The fee," Dongarra noted, Michael Dongarra of St. Mary's "will pay for the rice, tea, and Campus Ministry, will eat at Notre overhead. Dame following the Mass and "Thus far, there has been a big lecture. response on both the Notre Dame 
"The option to give up a SAGA and St. Mary's campuses to a fast, meal is the same as before," but there has not been a big 


way to excel
Dongarra noted, referring to the response to the tea and rice meal," fast for hunger held at St. Mary's he observed. 

• t Jf) 
demonstrated ways to take meaningful notes -plus proven
in December. Dongarra originally estimated 

(DOt jUS pass-exce . tips on listening, as weu as passing both subjective and
SAGA will pay 50 cents for each that there would be a 60 per cent 

objective type examinations.
student who gives up her Sunday turn-out, but now believes that up 

I used to be a student. I still am for that matter even If all this sounds too good to be true, I don't blame you.
night meal at the SMC dining Hall. to BO percent might agree to fast. 

though I'm no longer enrolled in an academic institution. Because there has never been a program like this before -a
However. because of the low However, he would not comment attendance for the Sunday night on the number that would turn out 

More importantly,I used to study hard-the midnight cram system that shows you how to raise your G.P.A. by simply mt•al. "SAGA feels as if they're for the tea and rice meal. 
sessions-the 7-day weeks. using the natural talents you possess right now. being ripped-off," he continued. Hall representatives are now 
But I didn't start making good grades until I learned It doesn't require "intelligence". I'm considered by most The food service estimates that accepting signatures in the dorms 
some amazing secrets about studying and about myself­to be average. only 30 percent of the students for the fast. SMC students may 
secrets that I have never shared with anyone else until now. Nor does it require "luck". You see, I sincerely believe come to supper Sunday night. also sign-up for the Sunday night 
This information could be worth more to you than all that we make our own good fortune. BPcause of the generally poor fast by placing their names and 
the money in the world. What's more, I feel so confident And it certainly doesn't require "effort" in the sense attt>ndance. SAGA wants a SAGA meal numbers on posters on 
about that claim that I'm going to request that you send that effort is hard work. Work is only hard if we dislike the guarantee that "the girls are not the cafeteria doors. 
me 10 dollars for something that will cost me less than I task at hand. going off-campus for the weekend The deadline for sign-ups is 
dollar to produce. And I'll even make the offer sound so Rather, it simply requires "belief". Enough belief to put 
or out for the weekend with their Thursday noon, he added. 

astonishing that you'll be sorry if you don't accept it. the simple concepts in.to action. Enough belief to absorb the
boyfriends, claiming that they are Dongarra urged that all students 

How can I make such a statement? Because I'm in the material. If you do that, I guarantee (remember, I said,
going to fast or to the rice and tea who sign up "go to the cafeteria 

business of selling educational information for a profit­guarante~C) the results will be astonishing.
meal at Notre Dame," stated and. confirm their commitment 

just like a professional daily newspaper or a lawyer. Samuel You don't have to interfere with' your present studies.
Dongarra. with SAGA. 

johrpon once said, "No man but a blockhead ever wrote In fact, you can review the material in less than one hour.
Therefore, students who sign up 

except for money." Besides, if I didn't make a good profit, You don't even have to "believe" me until after you
to abstain from Sunday night's 

you'd assume my education was wasted and whatever I have examine it.
THINK­
m<'al must make a follow-up 

to offer you is therefore worthless. Just try it. That's aU I ask. lf I've boasted too much,
commitment Sunday afternoon Yet I can unconditionally guarantee its results! In fact, I simply return the package for a refund. All you have to lose
betwt•en 2 and 4 p.m. 
CQ.LEGE LIFE 

will make you the most unusual guarantee in the world. is a couple of seconds and a postage stamp to see if I'm Sunday after initially signing up, 
If a student fails to appear 

And that is: I won't even cash. your check or money order right. INSURANCE CO.OF AMERICA 
for 20 days after I've sent you my material. But what if I'm telling you the truth? SAGA in their final tally of 
that student will not be counted by 

You'll have plenty of time to look it over and try it out. After all, while there are no certain shortcuts to success, If you don't agree that it's worth a hundred times what you there's no sense in taking the long way around, either. paid, simply send it back and I'll return every penny of your investment -even if you've marked in it. 
AFFIDAVIT: The material I'm going to send you will explain in detail 
what took me 12 years to perfect and put down on paper. 
"As a former professor of Mr. my professional experience at the Dave Mortenson, I certify th•t University of Colorado, I attest to
And it's going to be the biggest bargain you ever bought­
this advertisement is correct. On the fact that the statements r• How to pass school the lazy man's way. I call it "The Lazy 
the basis of my personal acqualn· garding his personal arw:l educ• tanca with him for 12 yean and tional background are true:#
Man's Way" because the wisest man I ever met once said, 
(Professor's name available upon request)
"Anything is easy once it's fully understood." Now, I don't mind bragging just a little to prove my point. Because unless I do, you won't be motivated enough 
Mr. Dave Mortenson 10990 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 118
to try my guaranteed method. You see, I went from a 2.1 Los Angeles, California 90024

GPA (4.o=A system) to a term average of over 3.5, while taking similar courses yet more units, merely by using the I haven't got anything to lose. Please rush me the "Lazy methods spelled out in my material. What's more, I have Student's Way to Excel". I understand that my check or copies of my official transcripts to prove it! 
money order will not be deposited for 20 days after it's been sent.
And I'll show you exactly how I accomplished this 
Should I return the material within that time (for any
while at the same time holding your money in 'escrow' until 
reason) even if I've marked it up, my check or money order
you're completely satisfied that reviewing my material is the 
will be returned. My ten dollars is enclosed with that smartest thing you ever did. 
understanding. All in all, I give you more than 150 pages filled with 
Name _____________________________________ 
proven methods on how to study, how to take exams, how to budget your time for greater efficiency, how to overcome anxiety, plus numerous other ways of getting better results Address--------------------------­with less work and more fun -real, practical ideas you can 
City _______ State _____ Zip ___
put to work at once. The concepts include: 4 steps to goal achievement; 6 steps to better reading; key factors in memory retention; 



Wednesday, January 29, 1975 
the observer 

7 
by Tom O'Neil Staff Reporter 

Speakers for the 1975 Sophomore Literary Festival will include novelists James T. Farrell, James Purdy, and Tillie Olsen and poets Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Robert Bly, John Logan, Joseph Brodsky and Michael Ryan. 
Contrary to earlier reports, Anthony Burgess will not be in attendance. The festival will last from March 2 to March 8. 
Festival Chairman Chris Mahon said the festival will be more encompassing this year, adapting itself to larger crowds while hoping to involve not only the "literary enthusiasts" but those less serious about literary pursuits. 
The theme forthefestival will be "Reflections" and its goal is "to increase the awareness that literature is more than just print," Mahon noted. 
"The festival offers the chance for the individual student to per­sonally experience and confront if he wishes that basic heart of literature--the writer; and although it may not lend itself 
InPIRG supports "Bill of Rights" for consumers 
by Fred Herbst Starr Reporter 

The Indiana Public Interest Research Group<InPIRG> at Notre Dame began to circulate petitions Monday in support of its utility Consumer "Bill of Rights". The 
proposed "Bill of Rights" would provide basic legal protection for utility consumers in Indiana. 
The petitions which urge the Public Service Commission and the Governor to adopt lnPIRG's proposed rules and regulations, will be presented to the Public Service Commission during a public hearing, February 4. 
InPIRGspokesman Joe Shickich noted," Anyone who has ever moved to a new town and tried to get a telephone installed or elec­tricity turned on or water turned on already knows why a 'Bill of Hights'is needed for utility con­sumers. The utility will un­doubtedly ask the consumer for a deposit -and if he or she is a student. or new in town or lives in a 'bad' neighborhood, the chances are great that the consumer will be asked for an exorbitant deposit, plus the first month's bill in ad­vance." 
The most important points the InPIRG proposal asks for are: no deposits for most consumers, 7 percent interest on the deposits which are collected, 30 days in which to pay bills, 10 days notice to any disconnects and a basic appeal right in case the consumer disagrees with what the utility says he or she owes. 
Shickich said, "The Public Service Commission is currently reviewing their rules. I think we have a pretty good chance at getting our proposals adopted." 
Similar petitions are being circulated at Indiana University, Purdue University at Indianapolis, Indiana University at Bloomington, at Valparaiso University and at Earlham College at Richnond. 
Statewide, Shickich hopes to obtain between 5000 and 10,000 signatures. He hopes to obtain 2000 signatures in this area. 
Erratum 

Most of the financing for the Big Brother Program comes from the United Way, not from the sale of Rose Bowl programs as reported in a feature article appearing in The Obser on January 16. 
Also the number of students participating in the program is approximately 25, a figure which has remained about the same since the program's inception. The total number of big brothers in the South Bend area is 230. 
Speakers for Festival announced 
specifically to social interaction  Among the poets included in the  Around the Body" for which "'itE;  
between student and the writers  festival is Lawrence Ferlinghetti,  received the National Book Award  
involved, it hopes to create a social  one of the oldest members of the  in Poetry in 1968.  
atmosphere campus-wide among  "Beat Generation." His poetry  John Logan, poet, taught at  
students and faculty members  has been seen as an exhorting,  Notre Dame between 1951 and 1965.  
and the writers themselves ,;  protesting adaption of the methods  Much of his poetry includes an  
Mahone stated. '  of French left-wing surrealism and  intense religious symbolism. His  
James T. Farrell is one of the  American radical populism. He  works include "Cycle for Mother  
festival's most celebrated writers.  was educated at Columbia and at  Cabrini" and "Ghosts of the  
He was born and raised in the  the Sorbonne in Paris.  Heart." He is presently editor of  
slums of Chicago's South Side and  the poetry and photography  
is the author of the famous "Studs  Joseph Brodsky is a native of  maga.zine "Choice."  

Michael Ryan is a Notre Dame graduate and still in his early twenties. Last year he won the Yale Serie of Younger Poets prestigious award and was con­sequently awarded the publication of his "Threats Instead of Trees." 
The schedule for the writers will generally have the novelists ap­pear in the beginning of the festival week, and the poets will dominate the latter half, Mahon stated. 
Lonigan" trilogy. Leningrad in the Soviet_ Union. He was ,jailed three times as an Another novelist featured by the "idler" and a "parasite," and festival will be James Purdy, a after a controversial trial that 
native of Ohio, whose major theme caused pressure from the Western 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
in prose has been the alienation of Countries, he was "invited" to the individual from his inhuman leave Russia. After brief staysculture. His works include "I am in .Austria and Israel, he traveled Elijah Thrush" and "Dream t.o America and became the poet­Palace." in-residence at the University of Michigan. He is now a teacher at 
Tillie Olsen, the festival's only Smith College in Massachusetts. featured female, is primarily an obscure prosist. She was, Robert Bly, a Harvard graduate, however, awarded the O'Henry and a veteran of WWII was the Award for the Year's best short founder-editor of The Fifties now story in 1961 for a story contained The Seventies magazine. His in her collection "Tell Me a Rid-works of poetry include "Silence in dle." h
r-------------=t:..:e-=n=o~w:.:!y_:F:..:i:.:elds"s and "The Li[!:ht 
TONIGHT 7 & 7's 40ct 
from 8:00 11 :00 
Responsible students desire to rent motorhome tor 10 days (March 21­
30) tor trip ~o Florida. Will pay well. Call Trace at 234-1889. 
Hash Brown Blues Band now available tor your dance, formal, or party. Call 272-9895 (evenings) for information. 
Car problems? Come to Hoffman Bros., Eddy at Madison. Wholesale prices to ND-SMC students, faculty, staff do-it-yourselters. Repair service also available. Since 1929. 234-0191. 
Will teach beginning guitar in my home. 288-5506 after 1 pm. 
Anyone interested in flying to Los Angeles over Easter break for around $150 please call 289-2757. 
Join our North East Day Care parent cooperative. $15 a month plus 4 hours parent participation per week. 9-5, 233-2233. 
"Kathy Reilly" is coming. 
MEN-WOMEN: Jobs on Ships! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $3.00 tor information. SEAFAX, Dept. G-13, P.O. Box 2049, Port Angeles, Wash, 98362. 
Jocks beware! A new supplier of sporting goods of all makes in the area. Lower cost that the sports shops. Adidas, Converse, Puma, Wilson, etc. Will also print uniforms. All first quality. For information call Dan at 8773 or stop by 439 Stanford Hall. 
Casting for new Smash Musical. "Kathy Reilly," call Ron, 232-7766. 
FOR RENT 
Furn. apt., 804 ND Ave. $80 mo., incl. util. 287-8282 after 9. 
Attention Off Campus Renters: 3 
BR  house,  new  carpet,  
redecoration.  Can  take  3  or  4.  
Available  for  balance  of  this  
semester  and  summer.  287-7818.  

3 room apt for rent, $95 month. Call 288-9533 or 232-8392. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: Navy pea coat at Campus View party Sat. Call 8947. 
Lost: one sterling silver and turquoise earring. If found, call 1328. 
Lost: key ring Sat. in SMC tunnel or Regina basement. Reward. Call Mary, 4537. 
Found: on north Quad. Woman's black fur-lined glove. Call 6791. 
PERSONALS 
Dare to be happy, Always my courageous Canuel<.; and may whatever your heart is set on bring you that happiness. Buon Compleasnno, hon. 
To the girls in 125: you can't hide everything in a bathing suit. But we won't tell. Gator, Orange, Phineas 
Gotchie: 
Free oil check 
My number is in the book. The Phantom Cheeseburger 
The Select Committee on V-Ciub Violations is sorry to announce the unfortunate bu necessary im­peachment of its president and founding father. 
The whole world waits and w~t­ches: will Kathy's baby pull through or will Vinnie and Wanda get measles together_ 
WANTED 

Actors and actresses to appear in brilliant new musical play, "Kathy Reilly." Call 282-1731, ask for Bill. 
Married couple or male graduate students to act as houseparents for teenage boys in Mishawaka childrens institution. Housing and meals provided. Good salary and fringe benefits. 259-5666 Monday through Friday, 9-5. 
TF's GRADS PROFS EARN $2000 or more & FREE 5-8 WEEKS IN EUROPE, AFRICA, ASIA. Nationwide educational organization needs qualified leaders for H.S. and College groups. Send name, address, phone, school, resume, leadership experience to: Center for Foreign Study, P.O. Box 606, Ann Arbor, Ml 48107. 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: 1965 Ford Custom four­door automatic, good running condition, with good tires and 2 snow tires. Very little rust. $400 cash. 288-2667. 

1974 Porsche 1.8 titer, 15000 mites, excellent condition. For further info call 288-7068 after 5 pm. 
Pair Dynaco 825 speakers. 1'12 yrs old -$120. 233-3495." 
4 pc. Drum set. Must sell quick. Call Joe, 8678. 
N ikon Equipment: N ikon F photomic body; 35 mm, 50 mm, 135 mm Nikon lenses; 200 mm vivitar lens; and 300 mm Sol igor lens. Call 8003 before Friday if interested in part or all. 
'71 Dodge Charger. Power steering, radio. Call 283-761>6 after 1 pm. 
NOTICES 
Woody Allen's book, Getting Even, at Pandora's Books, 602 N. St. Louis Blvd at South Bend Ave. 
North Quad Party, Sat. night, Feb. 1, 9:00-2:00 at the North Dining Hall. Music by Eden Rock. North Quad -free -all others, $1. 
Sign up now tor a retreat weekend at Camp Eberhart, Mich. ­Campus Ministry Office, 103 Library, Jan. :il, Feb. 1-2, cost $10. 
Ruggers: meeting Tuesday, January 28, in ACC next to club sports office at 4:15. Important!!! 
Be There! New t-r,embers welcome. 
Take the Greyhound o Chicago from N D every Friday at 5:40. Two buses return Sundays. Call Tom Boyer, 272-1807. 
Overseas Jobs: Australia, Europe, 
S. America, Africa. Students, all professions and occupations. $700 to $3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing. Free in­formation: TRANSWORLD RESEARCH CO., Dept. F3, P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA 94925. 
Sewing -mending -coat shor­tening, etc. Experienced, reasonable. 255-5236 after 6 pm. 
Sign-ups for Spring Break trip to Montego Bay, daily at the Student Union Ti.cket Office. Sponsored by St. Joe Bank Travel Agency. 
Money? Morissey Loan will lend up to $150 for 30 days, 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune, daily, 11:15 to 12:15. 
Tickets for the Jan 31 and Feb 1 performances of OH COWARD! starring Patricia Morrison at Morris Civic Auditorium are now on sale at the Student Union Ticket Office. 

..... 
... 
-'\_ 
Dantley's free throws difference 

A.D•• Irish squeak byWMU 73-71 
Western finally tied the game on
by Greg Corgan Western tied it up five minutes 
Harvey's shot with only 17 seconds
Sports Editor later 59-59, when Dantley fouled 
left. The Irish didn't use the time
and Dale DeBruin made both free 
to their advantage though as they
KALAMAZOO-"! knew they throws. The game was knotted 
couldn't find the hoop at their end. 
were going to be trouble as soon as five more times until the Irish took 

"They were very good," allowed 
we put them on the schedule," said a seemingly safe 71-67 with 1:30 to 

Peter Crotty, "I didn't think they'd
a relieved Digger Phelps last night play ·and possesion of the 
give us that much trouble
after his Irish basketball team basketball. However, Ray Martin 
especially after the way they were
slipped by Western Michigan 73-71. 
was called for an offensive foul 
playing during the first half."
"We have trouble with them at and Tom Kurzen canned his thirdl 
Crotty was somewhat misled.
home, much less on the road." 
jumper in the last four minutes. 
Western Michigan kept within five
"On the road" Tuesday night With the score 71-69, Digger of the Irish until the 3:21 marlJ inmeant Read Fieldhouse in called a timeout. It didn't do much the first half. But a jumper byKalamazoo, Mich., where 9,300 good as the Broncos got the ball Dantley and two baskets byfans almost witnessed the upset and Jimmie Harvey tied the score "Duck" Williams gave Notrethey had been hoping, and 

Dame a nine point 37-28 lead.
screaming for. Save two last on a ten foot jumper The Irish 

Western came back with six points 
second free throws by Adrian inbounded and worked the ball to 

but a layup by Dave Batton, two
Dantley and they may very well Dantley who made a few "Walt 

free throws by Dantley and a layup
have had their wish. 1-'razier " moves at the top of the 

by Bill Paterno gave the Irish their 
Dantley scored his 26th and 27th key and was fouled by Griffin as he 
ten point lead at half.
points of the game after being went up for the shot. 

Perhaps the most significant
fouled by the nroncos Paul Griffin "I don't think we were a little let 

happening during the first twenty
with two seconds to play. At that down after Saturday," said 

minutes of play came at the 9:39
point the score was tied, 71-71, and Digger. "We realized we would 

mark when referee Bob Wortman
A. D. converted on both ends of the have to win today to get into the 

tore a calf muscle in his left leg and 
one-and~ne. NCAA's tournament; otherwise it 

had to leave the ball game. After
The Irish had frittered away a would've been all over. I think the 

that the Irish were victimized by
ten point 44-34 halftime lead to help win against UCLA helped us get 

the poor positioning neccessitated
dramatize the final seconds of our confidence back enough not to 

by the presence of only one official. 
play. Notre Dame went on top 51-lose control in the final minutes of 

Nonetheless, Digger declined to
40 before the Broncos reeled off a close ball game. What saved us 
use a substitute JV ref.
seven straight points. Dantley was the zone defense we used that 

"It's tough on one official," said
then made a free throw with 13:29 the end." 

Digger. "But I didn't think it was
to play but WMU's high-scorer, Against the zone the Broncos had 

fair to bring in a referee who isn't
Tom Cutter, dropped in a four foot trouble getting an open shot and hook shot to make the margin 52-actually wasted more than a used to the pressures involved in Pete Crotty and the rest of his Irish teammates helped their 
49. minutewhenthey11ere behind 71-67. officiating a college game." NCAA chances by winning a close one over Western Michigan. "He gave us trouble ," ex­
~~arne really helped pick us up. leading scorer for the Irish with 14 
plained Crotty. "He would position 
We'~e playing with more poise and points. Jeff Tyson had 16 and 
himself under the basket at their 
confidence now, not like Pitt-Cutter 19 for WMU.
Busy weekend planned 

end of the court and at the hash 
sb~rgh, when we blew that game." The Broncos are now 10-7 while 
mark at our end. But I guess it 
Were not losing or heads," the Irish are 10-7 and look to 
doesn't really matter. The UCLA 
added Paterno, who was second Xavier at home this Saturday.
for unbeaten swimmers 


by Ernie Torriero Last Wednesday, the Notre Notre Dame's swimmers, off to Dame swim team defeated 


Fencers victorious in East
the best start in many years, hope Oakland University of Rochester, to continue their winning ways this Mi., 63-50, at the Rockne Pool. The weekend in two dual meets at the seen," the Irish came from behind Princeton was the final meet for
meet was close until the final by Bill Delaney Rockne Memorial Pool against event, the 400-yard freestyle relay. to win, behind the standout per­the Irish, and DiCicco felt that his 
Wayne State and Marshall It was here that Notre Dame Amidst the joys and jubilations· formance by John Strauss, who team was ready for the third­University. The Irish, 5-G, host captain Jim Kane, with a sen­of defeating the Bruins of UCLA won the deciding bout in epee. ranked Tigers.Wayne State Friday in a dual meet sational swimming performance, Saturday afternoon, another team A practice meet victory over the "Princeton tied it all together.
slated to start at 4:00p.m. This sealed the victory as the Irish set a besides Digger Phelps' crew had Midshipmen from Navy led up to We were relaxed, and fenced theRockne Pool record with a time of reason for celebrating their per­
meet marks Wayne State's second the encounter with Maryland, who way I thought they could do all
3:16.1. In all, five Rockne pool formances. The Irish Fencers had
visit to South Bend this season. loomed to be one of the tougher season."
records were broken, four of which just returned home from their
Wayne State recorded a fifth place foes on the trip. In defeating them Defeating Princeton by identical 
finish in the Notre Dame In­were by the Irish. week-long Eastern trip, and their 17-10, Strauss and sabreman Sim scores (18-9) in morning and af­vitational on December 6. The Saturday, freshman Ed Fitz­5-2 record with some of the finest DiFiglio were instrumental for the ternoon matches, DiCicco's teamsimons won the 50 and 100-yard teams in the country made their
Domers have never lost to Wayne Irish cause. took charge and ran the Tigers off 
State in dual meet competition; freestyle races as the Notre Dame week's delay from classes well the strips for their victories. Tim
swimming team defeated Bradley, worth the wait. The fencers first loss of the
they hold a 12-0 edge. Saturday Glass and Strauss in epee, DiFiglio 
68-45. Jim Meagher, Bob Wardell, season was suffered against Army. 
Marshall University of Hun­"It was just a matter of playing in sabre and Pat Gerard in foil 
tington, W. Va., invades Notre Joe Caverly, Bob Thompson, Bill After a night-long drive to West
the best, and unless you do that were keys to the Irish attack.
Scott and Bob Ebel were other Point, the fencers were in no shape
Dame for a dual meet scheduled to you're never going to know hoV.:
Irish winners. Admission for this for the Cadets, as they lost 17-10. Overall, the trip was a general
begin at 2:00p.m. Last year Notre good your team really is, explained 
Dame lost to Marshall, 61-52 at weekend's meets are free and open Rebounding against Baruch 21-6, success, according to DiCicco.
Coach Mike DiCicco about the trip. 
to the public. the scene was set for the bout with "The victories really give us the
Huntingyon. "We had many boys in a position New York University. momentum to go ahead in our
where the experience that could be 
NYU, considered the best fen­season, and with the bouts coming
P,ained would greatly help them in 
cing school in the country, up, we're going to need all the help 
the future, and the trip did just 
defeated Notre Dame 16-11, in a we can."
that."

Wrestlers up for meet 

very close and disputed match. The Fencers resume their
Driving cross-country eight 
"We knew that we had to do schedule this Saturday morning,
hundred miles for their tourneys, 
something special with NYU, and I when they play host to Wisconsin­
by Rich Odioso Penn State was the first stop for felt that we were just rounding Parkside, Tri-State, Bowling
Last week the Irish suftered four \he fencers. Defeating the Nittany
Coach Fred Pechek's Notre into shape," explained DiCicco. Green and Minnesota in the
defeats to bring their record to 4-5.

Dame wrestling team will be Lions 14-13 in what assistant "Unfortunately, many of the bouts Fencing Gym at the ACC. The
Notre Dame lost a home match to

gunning for its first title this coach Tim Taylor observed as went very close, and in the end, bouts start at 11, and admission is
Montclair State 19-11 and then fell

weekend as the Irish journey to St. "one of the greatest bouts I've ever they won." free.
to Temple 23-11, Penn 26-18, and.John's College in Minnesota for the 
Kentucky 28-9 in Philadelphia
National Catholic Tournament. 
Saturdav.
Prior to that Notre Dame will host Valparaiso, Evansville and St. Francis in a quadrangular meet at 4 p.m. Wednesday afternoon. 
IU still on top:
The Irish plac~d second to John Carroll in last year's tournament 





OBSERVER
and most of the ND wrestlers return plus newcomers such as 142­

ND climbs in polls
pounder Pat McKillen (6-4-1 overall) and heavyweight Ken 

SPORTS 
')ike ( 4-2). Chief rival figures to be 
AP Poll UPJPoll 
. !)hn Carroll, which stood at 3-1 
The UnitPd Press lnt<•rnational

prior to last weekend, with only a The Top Twrnly teams in lhP Asso­
Board or Coaches college basketball loss to powerful Lehigh. The Blue "1th ltn;t-place voles in parpnfheses ratings, with number or firsl-place Streaks have six All-Americans season records and total points. Ptlints 
ctat!'d Pri'Ss college basketball poll. 
voles and rt>cords m parenthrst•s (oW or labulal!•d on basts o( 20-18-16-14­
42 coaches voting): 
including 134-pounder Mark 

12· 1~11-11-7-6-H:!-2-I Points Hewald Cale who is 6-0 this season. I Indiana 1441 IA-0 RliO I. Indiana (40) (18-0) 400 Pro draft begins: live Irish chosen_
2. N. t' State. 12·2 723 2. N.C. St. (12-2) .. .293
Other powerful JCU wrestlyers 
3. LOUISVltle 13-I 6.'i7 3. Louisville (13-l) . .281

include 126-pounder AI 4. UCLA (14-2) . .270
4. l'CLA 14-2 5R2 The National Football League Mahalic, was chosen on the third

Evangelista and 300-pound 5 Kentucky 13-2 4115 5. Southern Cal (13-2) . lAO 
6. l'SC 13-2 4A7 6. Alabama (13-2) .. 1116 has completed the first seven round by the Denver Broncos.
heavyweight Joe Bartelome, who 7 LaSalle 16-1 4:ill 7. KPntucky (13-2) . 14.'i rounds of their annual draft, and Two Irish stars were picked in

lost only to ND 's Mike Fanning last R Maryland 13-3 3A3 R. Maryland (13-3) . 118 
five members of the Orange Bowl the fifth round Tuesdy afternoon: 

season. 9. Alabama 13-2 370 9. Arizona st. (16-2) . 88 10 North Carolina 10-4 256 10. LaSalle (11\-1) ....... ' 81 Champion Fighting Irish have fullback Wayne "the Train"
The Irish prepare for the tour­

II Ort>gon 12-2 217 11. North Carolina (10-4) . " 82 
already been selected by the pros. Bullock, and defensive tacklenament with Wednesday's home 12. Arizona State . 16-2 154 12. Oregon (12·2) ...·. . . 37 

... 13. Arizona (1!).3) . . . . . . ' 18 Mike Fanning, the 6'6, 250 pound Kevin Nosbusch. Bullock, a
quadrangular against Valparaiso, 13 Marquette . 11-3 87 14. Auburn 11-3 70 14. (Tie) So. Car. (11-4) . . ' ' 10 defensive tackle was the first to go, rugged two-year starter for theEvansville and St. Francis. The 
15. Anzona 15-3 116 14. (Tie) Creighton (13-4) . 10 
on the first ·round to the L. A. Irish, was chosen by San Fran­Irish beat Valparaiso 30-8 last year 16. Notre Dame 11-6 55 16. UN Las Vegas (13-3) . . 9 

17. Stanford 9-6 4R 17. (Tie) Marquette ( 11-3) . · 7 Rams. Co-captain Greg Collins cisco, and Nosbusch, who playedand shutout Evansville 50-0. St. 
lA. Tenne.;.o;ee 11-3 33 17. (Tie) Stanford (9-8) .... 7 was next, by the San Francisco with torn knee cartilage in the
Francis edged Notre Dame 24-23 in 19. South Carolina .1H 19 17. (Tie) Oregon St. (12-&) 7 
Forty-Niners. His teammate at Orange Bowl, was tabbed by San
20. Notre Dame (11-6) . . 4 the other linebacking spot, Drew Diego.

a controversial match at Loretto. 20 ~ ~ansas . . . 10-5 18 


