

uni_versity of notre dame -st. mary's college Monday, September 22, 1975
Vol. X, No. 14 
SLC election report 
Candidates tell views 
Students are spending more time with books this year, according to the Observer survey. 
Observer survey 
Study time rises over last year 

thoi·s study to Washington, and presented it to President Ford and the Amnesty Board. (Photo by Chris Smith.) 
program last spring. Fr. Hesburgh took 
Hesburgh wants amnesty study done at ND center 
by Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, University president, Friday called for a year-long study of American policy toward amnesty for war resisters and suggested the study be conducted at the Notre Dame Center for Civil Rights. Hesburgh, a member of President Ford's Clemency Board, defended the work of the Board against charges by four other members in a minority report released Friday that the board was stacked by anti-
B-P forms alcohol guide 
by Phil Cac~ley Staff Reporter 
The Breen-Phillips Hall staff has developed their own way of dealing with the alcohol situation in the dorms. 
Faced with the problem of enforcing University ~egulati~ns uniformly t~ro~ghout the hall. the staff drafted a policy on alcohol at the beginmng of this year. The policy Is1used as a guide when dealing with matters involving alcohol. 
"We had no real problems, just a need for consistency," said Kathy Grace, hall president. Last year, different resident assistants applied the University rules on drinking to varying degrees, according to Grace. In an effort to remedy the in­consistencies, the staff met at the beginning of this year and held a workship. 
At the workshop, the rectress Ms. Jeanne Thomas, the assistant rectress, the r.a.'s and the hall president engaged in role playing and discussion of the matter. 
"Afterwards, we all sat down and wrote our own pol'icies. The incredible thing was that we all wrote the same thing," related Thomas. "What's fantastic about our policy is that it came from the staff, and not the Dean's Office." 
Grace said the policy is working well. She also stated that it was the only policy written by an individual dorm that she knew of on campus. 
The policy states briefly that it is illegal to drink when under the age of 21 in Indiana. It further states that public drinking or openly displaying alcohol will not be allowed. One section of the policy reads "Although the hall staff will de-emphasize the necessity of alcohol at parties, it will not act in a parental role and tell the students how to live with the law ... ". The policy also asserted that it is "each individual's responsibility to respect and protect the pe and order of the dorm community)' 
The most recent directive on alcohol 
issued by the Dean's Office bears a strong 
resemblance to the Breen-Phillips policy. 
The dlrective issued by Dean of Students war liberals who violated the mandate of the Board. 
In advocating a study of amnesty, Hesburgh explained that the experience of the Clemency Board leaves unanswered national policy questions on amnesty, selective service, and methods of discharge from the service. The Civil Rights Center, which now has over 120,000 pages of the Clemency Board reports and Fr. Hesburgh 's personal notes, would in­vestigate these areas. 
(continued on page 6) 
ND drinking rules 
The rules and regulations of the University do not allow any consumption of alcoholic beverages In any rooms other than residence rooms. This means th~t students may not drink alcoholic beverages in corridors, study rooms, or other -non­residence rooms in the residence halls. 
If students drink in their own rooms In violation of the alcoholic beverage laws of the State of Indiana, such students face the consequences of such state violations if the state law enforcement agencies become aware of and concerned with such violations. 
Kegs and ponies are not consistent with the above pol icy. The Security personnel at the gates have been instructed not to permit entrance of vehicles which contain either kegs or ponies. 
James A. Roemer Dean of Students 
James Roemer on September 15 states in particular "The rules and regulations of the University ... allow the consumption of alcoholic beverages in .. . t.tllilidence rooms... If students drink in their own rooms in violation of the alcoholic beverage laws of the state of Indiana such studentf face the consequences of such state violations ... " 
Thomas said the Breen-Phillips policy was shown to Roemer earlier this month. "He said he liked it," she remarked. 
Preliminary elections for the Student Life Council representatives will be held tomorrow in the residence halls from 11:30 
a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 p.m. to 6:30p.m. Voting places for off-campus students will be set up in the Huddle, in the library con­course, and at the Notre Dame apartments and Campus View. 
A forum for the four North Quad can­didates is scheduled tonight in the Keenan­Stanford chapel, stariting at 8 p.m. 
The finalists from both North and South Quads will meet in a forum Wednesday night in Grace Hall. Time and place will be announced later. The run-off elections will be next Thursday. 
One of the major issues of this year's campaign is that of the Student Life Council itself-is it an effective body? Is it worth it? 
The Obst>rver asked each of the ten student candidates to answer the following~ questions: "How effective can-will the SLC be? How can it be made more ef­fective?" 
The candidates' answers follow. The order in which the candidates are men­tioned was determined by lottery. 
Mike Richter <South Quad): I feel the SLC can have a great effect in university policy. Hesburgh can veto its proposals, but the SLC can then take them to the Board of Trustees. The Board probably won't override Hesburgh 's veto, but the SLC is the only direct link the students have ·to the Board. It's the only official meeting place for the students, faculty, and administrators to come together to communicate and present their views of the issues. 
The student representatives will have a definite say in how effective the SLC will be. The students must elect representatives who will demand the respect of both faculty and administrators. 
I think the roll-call of SLC meetings should be published, to help make sure people are there and to apply pressure to the representatives to do a better job. Stacy Weaver <North Quad>: The SLC can 
by Dave Beno and Maureen O'Brien Staff Reporters 

Notre Dame students are apparently studying more this year than last year. 
In a poll conducted by the Observer, 60 percent of the students, randomly in­terviewed by telephone, stated that they are spending more time studying this year than last year. Thiry-six percent said they were studying less and three percent said they were studying the same amount of time. 
Of those noting an increase in study time, most said they wanted to do better academically this year, while some said their courses are more difficult than before. For many, the increase in study time was a considerable one. 
One student commented, "I'm studying more so I can pass." Another student lamented, "I know better now-that's why I'm studying more." 
Arthur G. Weigand, administrative assistant in charge of library security, 
only be as effective as its members make it. 
I'm sure we all feel the same way about the 
future of the SLC: more concrete action is 
needed and less empty words. 
But this has all been said before and a lot 
of action is inevitably stopped by the ad­
ministration. What we really need is more 
workable ideas that ca~1 become a reality at 
N.D. 
The members of the SLC must be 
dedicated to working out solutions to 
campus issues and realizing the needs of the 
student population. 
I do feel there is not enough interest in the 
SLC-an effective council needs student 
support. I am more concerned with working 
for the students-making a concerted effort 
to bring their ideas to light. 
The SLC will be a much more effective 
organization if a greater effort is made to 
find out the real student opinion on campus 
issues. 
Phil Mancini <Off-campus>: I think the SLC 
can be very effective if the representatives 
a void arguments over semantics and get 
down to talking about the real issues. 
It has to stop stalling over matters of little 
importance that are really just on the 
periphery. The smaller membership will 
allow the council to get more said and done. 
I have a great deal of respect for Ed Byrne. He's familiar with the faculty and administrators on the council and he knows the issues well. I think that will make things easier for us. 
The issues the SLC hf.s dealt with have 
remained pretty much the same these past 
three years. I hope this year we can get 
them resolved or at least on the path instead 

of having them floating in some kind of 
limbo. 

Tom Hogan <South Quad): The SLC can be as effective as the people on it want it to be and as effective as Hesburgh, with his veto power, will let it be. A great deal depends on how the administration views the SLC and reacts to its proposals.
(continued on page 2) 
commented that he did not notice more students studying at the library and that the number of students studying there fluc­tuates daily. 
Most of the students studying less men­tioned that they just haven't started studying seriously or haven't had much work yet. Increased dating and partying were also cited as reasons for decreased study time. "I want to have a good time while I can; I know how hard it's going to get,"said one student. 
Several students said the increase in study time did not interfere with extra­curricular activities due to more efficient use'of time. However, most students did note such interference. A junior English major stated, "If I had more time, I'd love to engage in many activities, but study~ takes up a large portion of my time, and the remainder goes toward my social life." 
Total weekly study time averages be­tween fifteen and thirty hours. 


-~-~--------------------------~-------------.-,-,----------­
Monday, September 22, 1975
2 
the observer 
,.. 
i 
\ 
I ' 
warld briefs 
BRISBANE, Australia <AP) -Workers sealed the entrance to the Kianga coal mine Monday, entombing the bodies of 13 men killed Saturday when an explosion collapsed a mile of the un­derground shaft. 
The decision to seal the mine was made after air samples showed a deadly poisonous level of carbon monoxide. 
MIAMI <AP)-Tropical Storm Eloise regained some of the fury it had as a killer hurricane and began moving its gales and heavy rains Sunday toward the U.S. Gulf Coast, forecasters said. 
"Eloise could become a hurricane within 24 hours, and if it does 
strengthen much we might have a problem," said Neil Frank, 
director of the National Hurricane Center. 
Eloise killed at least 42 persons when it hit Puerto Rico and the 
Dominican Republic as a hurricane but lost its deadly punch before 
it crossed Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula on Sunday. 
BOSTON <AP)-Boston teachers voted overwhelmingly Sunday to defy a court injunction and go on strike against public schools Monday. 
an campus taday 
3:30 
p.m.--computer course, "list processing in pl-1 with ap­plications to data base management" with guest speaker dr. ellen 

b. 
ryan, psychology dept., nd, rm 115, computing center, also sept. 


24. 
7:00p.m. --MECHA meeting, basement Iafortune under huddle. 
Five students arrested after fight at Heidelberg 
by Bob Mader abusive language when asked by Campus Editor police to dispose of the beer and leave the grounds. 
Four Notre Dame students and "We could have arrested 50 one St. Mary's student were people if we had wanted to," Cole arrested early Saturday morning stated. "Some just had more sense on charges of public intoxication than others and left when we asked on the premises of the Heidelberg them to." Inn, Niles Police Sergeant Max Schmidt estimated the crowd Cole said yesterday. numbered 60 to 70 people. Cole 
The five were held overnight at estimated the crowd to number the Niles Police Station and around 200 people _ released yesterday after posting Cole said the police had no in­
$100 bond each. tention of h·arassing patrons of the Heidelberg. "If we wanted to 
Cole also reported that the harass people we could raid the Heidelberg Inn has been cited for place," he said. violation of state liquor laws. Cole stated that he requested an 
Police arrived at the Heidelberg investigation by the Niles fire chief shortly after 1 a.m. to answer a and the liquor control commission complaint of a fistfight in the as to whether the room in which parking lot Cole said. When they the party was held was filled arrived a party sponsored by beyond capacity F'isher Hall was ending and there was a large crowd in the parking 
The Ob!>erver is. published Monday through Friday and weekly during the s.ummer s.es.s.ion, except durtng 
lot, some of whom were carrying 
beer in open containers. 
exams and vacation periods.. The
According to Michigan State 
Observer 1S. pubI is.hed by the
Police officials carrying open 
students. of the Univ. of Notre 
containers of alcoholic beverages 
o"ame and St Mary's. College Subs.criptions. mcly be purchcl!>ed for 10 dollar!> per !>emes.ter ! 18 
out of a restaurant or tavern is a 
misdemeanor punishable by up to 
dOllars. per year> from The Ob
90 days in jail or $100 fine. 
server, Box Q, Notre Dame. In 
According to Heidelberg owner 
d1ana. 46556. Second Class postage 
paid, Notre Dame. IN 46556.
Paul Schmidt the five who were 
arrested were intoxicated and used 


TONIGHT! 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING FOR ALL THOSE INTERESTED IN PARTICIPATING IN THE 
1976 

MOCK POLITICAL CONVENTION 
at NOTRE DAME 6:30p.m. 127 Nieuwland Hall 
{For information, call 8407) 


TONIGHT! 
Effectiveness of SLCviewed by this yearS election candidates 
(continued from page 1) If the students are not to lose will take a lot o~ ~?rk. 
In the past a lot of reforms that respect for the SLC, it must do The SLC can 1mhate proposals have been passed by the SLC have so~ething positive right away. and pass legislation, which not been acted on quickly enough Action should be taken on the Hesburgh can then approve or by the president. When his recommendatio!ls contained in the veto. The SLC can take the decision was finally given, COUL report to Implement some of proposal to the Board of Tr~stees, students had lost interest. the proposals. though, and they ~an overn~e. t_he 
If issues are acted on more Student input is always im-veto. So there IS a possibility 
quickly and reasons are given for portant. A constant_ flow of input there. . . the decisions 1 think the students from the students will help to get The mam problem IS that will be able to see that the SLC is things done more quickly and students don't know much about not just sitting around and will look effectively. the _SLC a!ld. don't have much on it more favorably. The Chairman of the HPC can be confidence m It. . Ed Van Tassel (North Quad): 1 a means of 1 collecting student A lot of work, a lot of tim~, and a think the SLC can be more ef-reactions to campus issues. lot ~f research are reqmred to fective, but it is already a wor-Peri_odic polls could ~lso be taken conv~nce people to support the SLC thwhile means of getting things to fmd out student Ideas and to and ~ts. proposa~s. done. discover problems. Th1s IS a very Important year for 
Just by the fact that it brings __ United student opinio~ ~ill h~lp the SLC becau~e s~udents ~r~ just students, administrators, and put pressure on the adm1mstrabon about fe~ up ~1th 1t. B~t 1t IS ~he faculty together in one body, the at lea~t to compromise on issues. only legislative body m wh1ch SLC is able to effect change more John Salveson (Sout~ Quad>: The stud~nts have equal represen­
deeply and quickly. SLC can be more effective, but it (contznued on page 7) 
ATTENTION SMC CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
LET IT BE KNOWN THAT YOUR GROUP'S ENTRY IN THE SMC SLOGAN CONTEST WAS CHOSEN AS THE WINNER. 
TiJne is running out • . . So-
SUBMIT YOUR ENTRIES (SLOGAN AND/OR EMBLEM} TO: CATHY COYNE STUDENT DEVELOPMENT COMM. 
469 LEMANS BOX 1034 
any questions call 284-4958 
WINNER RECEIVES $25.00 FOR THEIR ENTRY AND THE HONOR OF HAVING YOUR ENTRY REPRESENT SMC. 
DEADLINE FOR ENTRIES -MIDNIGHT SEPTEMBER 28. 1975 

: ( 
\ 

Monday. September 22. 1f75 the observer 
3 

ND Hunger Coalition ca~npaigns 



byJohn Shaughnessy Staff Reporter 
Coinciding with National Week of Concern, Sept. 21-28, the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition will officially open its 1975-76 campaign next Wednesday by sponsoring a fast and a mass. 
Coalition President Chris Brinegar stated, "We're taking this opportunity to shed light on certain facts about the hunger problem." Starvation accounts for an estimated 2300 deaths every hour, he explained. "The events will also give people a chance to show their concern with social inequality in a visible fashion." 
Fr. Frank Quinlaven, from the Holy Cross Justice of Peace Center, will celebrate the mass at 6 
p.m. Wednesday in Sacred Heart 
Church. The coalition also urges students 
Murphy appointed to White Chair 
Dr. Edward J. Murphy, a acting dean of the NotreDameLaw member of the law faculty of Notre School from January to July of 1971 Dame since 1957, has been ap­and is co-author of Studies in pointed to the Thomas J. White Contract Law, a casebook used by Chair in Law, announced Fr. several of the nation's major law Theodore M. Hesburgh, president schools. of the University. A native of Springfield, Ill., 
Murphy, a contract and com­Murphy · received his un­mercial laws specialist, served as dergraduate and legal training at 
Minority enrollment reaches new high 
Freshman enrollment of minority students at Notre Dame has reached 105 this year. 
This is almost triple the 37 enrolled in 1969-70, the last year before the University earmarked financail aid for minority group members. There are 1,636 fresh­men enrolled for the academic year. 
These first-year students, two of which are transfer students, in­clude 53 blacks, 40 Spanish­Americans, 13 Oriental Americans and one American Indian. A total of 509 stude)lts from minority ethnic groups applied for ad­mission; 217 were accepted and 105 enrolled. All but seven applicants 
COUL discusses campus issues 
by Patrick Cole Staff Reporter 
The Committee on Un­dergraduate Life (COUL) met last night to discuss committee recommendations made last year. 
Although no issues were discussed, the meeting em­phasized presenting campus issues to administrative officials by COUL members. 
At this stage of the follow-up reports, each member delivers his recommendations to the depart­ment of the University concerned. Once the department gives a response, the recommendation returns to the COUL for evaluation and then goes to the Board of Trustees. 
THE 
RESUME PLACE 
25 RAG BOND 

Only $2.55 
insly·prints 

203 N. MAIN SO.BEND, IND 
289-6977 
to skip that day's evening meal. "Both actions will help lead the pledge for dining hall fasting throughout the semester," said Ceyl Prinster of the coaliton's communications committee. 
On Thursday during dinner coalition members will hand out pledge forms for those who wish to fast from meals every Wednesday night. Students who sign the form will have their meal ticket marked off from the dining hall list that evening. A 50 to 75 cent con­tribution is donated to the coalition for each person who fasts . The exact amount contributed depends upon the number of pledges . The more people involved, the more money the coalition will receive per meal. 
"Many people ask why the dining halls only contribute 50 or 75 cents per meal." Prinster said. 
finished in the top 20 per cent of their class and more than half finished in the top five per cent. 
The survey conducted by 
Daniel J. Saracino, associate director of admissions, shows 42 per cent of the new students were active in high school athletics, 45 per cent in student government, 52 per cent in National Honor Society activities, 28 per cent in debate or drama groups, and 25 per cent in choir or band. They come from 31 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Spain. 
Of the 105 enrollees, '1:l were designated as Notre Dame Scholars and will receive scholarship funds to assist in tuition payments. Another 11 received National Achievement scholarships, five received ROTC scholarships, eight received athletic grants-in-aid, and one student has become a seminarian in the Holy Cross order. 
45 of the students are in Arts and Letters, 28 in science and 16 each in the Colleges of Engineering and Business Administration. 
a FUll OAUIHT IITHB ACT 



"LIVB" 
tWO-IICOBD II! 
IIIJ.UDII

roouflJiifli·a--usm.... 
CLOIBI!OBOD 

RBiifBBBIDB WI'IIII&IIIBICII BOD r&ILOC0-110!105 SOBIIIDorWIIDIBI'DL 
S..q 
. ~..... 


NOW... at Notre Dame Book Store 
"They think the program is getting ripped off. Actually they've been giving us the best deal possible considering their overhead. Although some students fast," she continued, " the dining halls still have electrical, service and per­sonnel expenses. We've been very pleased with their cooperation." Prinster said. 
Last year the coalition received approximately $1100 when the fasting program began in the final six school weeks. The money of giyen to UNICEF, CARE, CORR, OXFAMI and several other agencies. Research determines which organizations use the the donations most effectively. 
Money isn 'tthe only value of the program, explained Brinegar. Student involvement is equally important. He is seeking an im­provement upon last year's 400 
the University of Illinois between graduate, and his wife. Following 1944 and 1951, and served for one his graduation from St. Louis year in the U.S. Army. He was in University's Law School in 1940, private practice with the White practiced law and headed a Springfield firm of Graham and plastics manufacturing firm. In Graham from 1951 to 1954 and then 1946 h · d d I t
e orgamze a eve opmen

spent three years as clerk to company which has built 
Justice Harry Hershey of the numerous shopping centers, in-Illinois Supreme Court. Murphy dustrial parks and office buildings then joined the Notre Dame Law in the St. Louis area. 
School faculty and was the first White has been active in Catholic president of the Notre Dame charitable causes in the St. Louis Faculty Senate. area and has received the Papal The White chair was endowed by honor of Knight of the Holy 
Thomas J. White, 1937 Notre Dame Sepulchre.
r ------------. I I $ll,SOO,OOO 1 UNCLAIMED SCHOLARSHIPS 
I 
Over $33,500,000 unclaimed scholarships, grants, aids, and fellowships ranging from $50 to $10,000. Current list of these sources researched and campi led as of September 5, 1975.
I UNCLAIMED SCHOLARSHIPS 369 Allen Avenue, Portland, Maine 04103
I 0 I am enclosing $12.95 plus $1.00 for postage and handling. (Check or money order -no cash, please.)
I 
If you WISh to use your charge card, please fill out appropnate bous below: 
I D rt._~_a-.__...:..1D PLEASE RUSH YOUR 
~ CURRENT LIST OF Expir~tlon Date! UNCLAIMED SCHOLARSHIPS
I 
Mont~/Y ..• . 
Mast•r Cl'arge SOURCES TO: 
Credi:nlerbenk No.I Cerli No. '---------~ 
Name ··· ··········· ··· ............................................................... .................I Address . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . .. .. . ... ..... . ... .. .... ... ...... ................... ... ..... 
I City• ···M~i~~ ~iden~·Pj~~ !~~% ~j~~ b~.·· Zip············ 
.... -----------......... .-_.,rc;.....ft 
........ V$C•t... ~ 
fasters per week average. 
"Even though we could raise more money with greater par­ticipation, the actual fund-raising isn't the sole concern," Brinegar commented. "We just want people to feel in a small way what two­thirds of the world is feeling in a large way every day." 
Both Brinegar and Prinster cited an increase in the business of McDonald's, the Huddle and the halls' food sales on nights when the fast was in effect. Prinster stated, "We hope the people will really fast, not just go somewhere else to eat. Experiencing hunger is an important part of the plan," she said. 
The coalition plans three major programs involving South Bend community residents. The initial project, to be implemented during the first semester . will attempt to educate the · local area in the concepts needed to confront social inequality worldwide. 

Heading second smeester plans is the proposal of a congressional bill calling for an increase in non­military foreign assistance. A third program iintends to help any local businesses begin a payroll deduction plan. These funds will support the international development movement. All three projects will be conducted through the community's religious services and mass media. 
"Our goal is to try to educate people to the problems that exist in the world and provide some possible solutions:• Brinegar said. 
The hunger coalition will have a meeting for anyone interested in helping the program on Monday night at 7 p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom. 
~···········~··
0

r_.·-!'Jere IS a •. 
: (liffereiiCe!!! \
•

:~,.liE fOil: • 
• Om l5 ,,.,, •
MCAT 

• A I oft~~»erttfiCt : 
• OAJ ~Mceu • 
: INII:...IH 
:. L~ AT • .: : 
tJftl wotu"'"*'' holllt

• stuclr "'•teri•l•
GRE 

• • :. : A~SB coursn ""' •re • • II g cOIISt•nttr "'*'"' • 
• I f'AT • • 
• t.ftl r.,, t~elhtlu for : 
e rtvltWI of CIIU e 
• cnaT 
ltUOftS lnd for USI. : rill ohuptlle!MIIIII'Y • 
• ""1''~ 1' :
flEX

! lblle ups for • 
:ECFMG "'I'"" ''"Oft' : 


I iII~LTMEDBosi 
I 
: • ~Oit·~~~;·,!'r~:! !.k: • i 

I 
: s :;;uc!,~:· a~~;=~~ : 


5

• • • :··~ c:m~•· • • • • 
• 
TEST DATES • 

J : 9 75
• MCAT -NMB'S 6-76 :
1• OAT 10-75 ECFMG 1-76 
LSAT 10-75 FLEX 12-75 : e GRE 10-75 OCAT 11-75 e
• ATGSB 11·75 CPAT 9-75 • • SAT 1 1 · 75 VAT 12· 75 •

I . . . . . . . . . . . 
• INDIANAPOLIS • 
: 6620 GrHnlture Dr~ve :
I : lndi~;~~~~~~~~26~62:?0 : 
e • • • • • • • • • e
I : CH~~i;~~.;~1~TER : 
• 
• ~ tJ • 
1=: 11. :=
I : EDUCATIONAL cENTE,. : 
~ ~~~:,E:=-~~:. : I ~... ~~~:;'w.-:"·•• ,;::•~ 
f" . '
~ 

t 

an independent student newspaper Founded November 3, 1966 



1he ObServer 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Manager 
fDrTORIAL BOARD AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor Ken Girouard, News Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil, Features Editor; Chris Smith, Photo Editor 
Monday, September 22, 1975 
DOONESBURY 

CHAMP, A5 rM CHef?. ANP 6RJ366 RCAJ)Y I 811/UA/ CHieF; I'M TO S6R.'/6, 
i ~Nf)JN6 YaJ ON lJNCU /)(}1(&! : A TOP Pli!IORITY 

by Garry Trude,au 

TtJHJRROIU THAT SOf/N()S MOf<NING, 611£66 61<£/tTl-81JT AUMAN STA/1J5 HOW (f)Mc I IAkJRK ON HIS N~ 6ET TO 60 IN­Al8VM IN t..A.! I 5TEAP a=}()()? 
t The Only One We've Got 
Lyndon Johnson, in the days when his semester debating whether 15 cooks policies were under attack from all sides, would make a better broth than 24. was fond of remarking that, "I am the
t only President you've got." His op­
{ One is tempted to say that cynicism is 
ponents hoped to change that at the next
( occasionally a healthy attitude toward 
election but, for the moment, it was Notre Dame politicking. But the fact is
t r undeniably true. The only man who could that the SLC is the only institution af­exercise the powers and perform the 
fecting student life where students have duties of the presidency was Lyndon equal influence with administrators and Johnson, for he was the President.
r 
facully, the only institution able to deal 
l, directly with the Board of Trustees. 
Tomorrow the student body elects new In its early years, as recently as theI members to the Student Life Council late Sixties and early Seventies, it c:ansider this~~~~ ( after a campaign noted for general played a useful role, publicly debating
l 
apathy, if noted for anything at all. current questions and legislating partial 

The 'Ice Cream
Perhaps this apathy is due to cynicism solutions. True, it~has fallen far since 
concerning the endless words about then, but it may still have a little life in it. "action not words." So put aside some cynicism tomorrow 

Social ' Crisis 
and vole. Perhaps it is due to cynicism about the But don't suppose that whoever gets 
pat kearns 
SLC itself: a body which spent four elected is going to be able to read your '"Coed housing would not be attractive for everyone, however, I meetings last year arguing about what mind. Don't expect them to produce a think that it would create a more relaxed atmosphere on campus,' stated Moore, 'and the opportunity should be there for those
constitutes a "flagrant or perverse" Golden Age. Figure that the SLC is about 
students who are interested."'(The Observer, Sept. 11,1975)sexual act only to have their solution all we've got and that five students there "'The students should be evaluated before, during, and after the experiment. Of cause, they must be serious about it,' he com­
vetoed by Fr. Hesburgh (who had can't do much either --unless you tell 
mented.

already vetoed a previous sex rule); a them what you want and back them when 
'Coed living can create a better social climate for male and
1 
body which spent much of the second 
they go for it. female students in a positive ahd healthy way,' he contended. McNally said he felt encouraged by the COUL report recom­
p.o. mendation."<Thf' Obst'rver, Sept. 10, 1975) "The Report is important for students in two major respects.
I 
box q voice to those who are opposed to in issues like these, the question First it includes many excellent proposals on undergraduate life capital punishment. To favor that should be asked is, "What ranging from streamlining registration to establishing coed dorm­capital punishment, rationally, right does anyone have to take the s." <Editorial "Lest We Forget," The Observer ,Sept. 18' 1975 
because it acts as a deterrent to life of another person?" I believe 
( Anti­Apparently, we are unanimously agreed that coed living is a good
further killing is to ignore the that the answer is none, what­Notre Dame must have and we will fight with all our strength tillfacts. Britain has outlawed capital soever. To say someone has a right we get it. Well, forget it! As long as there are men and women here

\ Capital 
punishment for years and there over another person's life would 
who prefer reality to rhetorical fiction, the attainment of a unified
( has not been a gain in homicides. start an avalanche of dire con­cry for coed dorms is as likely as Custer cheering for the Indians. 
Obviously capital punishment did sequences. War, euthanasia, and

Punishment
I 
not act as a deterrent before this abortion might all be justified. There are times when a stand must be taken and now -not after law was implemented or there No, I will not support capital more "experiments" -is such a time. We need not march in time would have been a gain in the punishment-mainly because of its with the latest suggestions from the confused liberals who claim Dear Editor: number of homicides after the moral implications. Killing a some infallible understanding fo human nature, particularly in the law's implementation. person because they killed oh-so-interesting area of sexuality. Other than the Magisterium of In response to the letter to the This argument is from a rational someone else is like fighting fire the Catholic Church, there is no such infallibility given to men, or editor appearing in the September perspective. From a moral per­with fire. Everyone knows the way women <or persons, if you like.> So let us clearly, and not so
1 18th issue I would like to add my spective, which must be examined to fight fire is with water. 
} 
( 
~ 
( 
( 
( 
r 
~ 
( r 
{ 
~ 
( 
' 
' ( 
( 
~ 
' I r 
~
, 
Tim Mess 


/JCCAIJS£, NEPHEJU, l'VE H~/!.1) AllMAN's1/.fRK. 1115 trrrte BANP [J()ES NOT Pli!fX)()CE MJSJC. Mnl~ ff EM!T5 A RW OF INTEIISEL-Y 
IJNPI.£A5.4NT V!i1RAT!ON5 7HATCAN STele/LIZ£ ~AT 200 YAR/JS.I I 
[ == J ~l 
r RGUR£P YOU'!J&AT 
IT (}P. 
\ 
= J I_'=G8~~ 

meekly, dismiss the more or less subtle suggestions that any 'normal' student would find his real psychological and sociological fulfillment in a mixed community of persons. (This jargon is habit forming.> To move around in this world without hanging one's head with some kind of phony inferiority complex about one's sex or religion or social background or legitimate opinions is not ab­normal. and not Pride Personified. On the contrary, pride is assuming some sort of inspired knowledge of the real which no one up till now has had an inkling of. Oh sure, people like St. Thomas Aquinas, Josef Pieper, etc. did their best, but now ... 
Well, let us strive to get beyond, or rather back down to, things of more substance than the absolutely ridiculous discussions about 'redefining' our roles as men and women, not men-women or mothers-fathers or uni-uni, and give some time and energy to things that really do need time and energy. Couldn't it be that the current crises in the areas of abortion and contraception are of greater urgency than the present social (as in 'ice cream social') "crisis" here at Notre Dame'? Or couldn't we of somewhat more importance to spend our energies learning to develop personal virtues rather than clamoring for the imaginary Skinnerian box <or dormitory) panacea'? Or making the effort to live the Gospel rather than rewriting it'? 
In other words, now is the time to get our heads out of the self-centered clouds we have so placidly and sheepishly allowed to engulf us. Now is the time to consider things of greater depth than all this useless self-analysis. Now is the time to dedicate ourselves to the challenge of solving the real problems that are begging for our generosity. 
the observer 
Night Editor: Tim O'Relley Typists: Terri Harlan, KarenAssistant Night Editor: Martha Chiames, Marie McMcCarthyFanning 

Compugraphlc: AI. Paclno Day Editor: Brian Clancy 
Night Controller: Howard Halle Copy Reader: Jack D'Aurora 
Late Typist: Howard Halle Features: Gregg Bangs 
Ad Layout: Tom Whelan, and Joe Sports: Bill Brink Gralf (helped a little) 

country rock: 
outlaws, ppl and fogelberg record retJiew by gregg bangs 
Nowadays, a prospective record buyer guitarist by name of Hughie Thomasson would certainly have a hard time escaping who is not only responsible for some very 
clean, original solos, but wrote the best
the "country rock" sound. Although the inspiration of this music has been popular songs on the album. for years in the form of bluegrass, western "Green Grass & High Tides," the ten "cowboy" music, and even the "Nashville" minute finale on The Outlaws is by far the sound, its selling power has certainly grown best song on the album. Starting with a few in size with the emergence of such groups as reflective chords, Thomasson Buildsthe song the Buffalo Springfield, the Byrds, Crosby, into a constantly driving swirl of energy. Stills, Nash and Young, the Grateful Dead Throughout the song, Thomasson is in­and, to an extent, thP. Lovin' Spoonful. terweaving solos with fellow lead player Bill 
However, it is !becoming, increasingly Jones. This song comes off even better in hard to label the entirety of this type of concert where one can see the two ex­music as country. As in any genre of music, changing riffs while buidling the song to a there are varying styles and influences. In climax. the classification of what was once country Rythmn player Henry Paul gives an in­rock, one can hear sounds that vary from tersting vocal in his country oriented lead guitar-dominated southern bands such "Knoxville Girl," which also features some as the Allman Brothers, Lynyrd Skynyrd fine leadsby Thomasson and Jones. and Marshall Tucker to the vocal-harmony­Although the rest of the songs are pleasant oriented California bands of the Eagles and enough, they ae without faces and tend to be Poco to the country-bluegrass sounds of the forgettable. However, for a debut album, Nitty Gritty Dirt Band and the old Flying this fares well even if it just for the 'con­Burrito Brothers. tributions of Thomasson. To coin a phrase, 
Of course, no band stays strictly within the Outlaws need a "sense of dierection." the limits of any classification as they try to They would be wise to follow Hughie establish a style of their own. The Eagles Thomasson's for he is the best part of this transcended the softness of the Poco ap­album. proach by relying on a louder, more electric Dan -f0gel•berg's first album was a fine sound. Quite often though, this search for a collection of ballads and moderately paced unique sound gets caught in mid-stream and country rock son~s. The album went there seems to be no direction. nowhere His second album, Souvenirs, is a 
The Outlaws seem to be such a band. fine collection of ballads and moderatelySigned by ex-columbia Records head Clive paced country rock songs. For it, Dan Davis, they are introduced on their liner Fogleberg was named best new rock artist notes as "the first full tilt rock n' roll band of the recently held Don Kirshner Rock signed by Arista Records," Davis' present Awards (not the Grammy Awards) and the company. At first glance, this band appears album has received mostly favorable to be in the Allman Brothrs mold by having reviews. The difference in reception of these 
two lead players--in fact, they give credit to albums can be found when skimming the Lynyrd Skynyrd for their style. The credits. Fogleberg's contributingproblem appears to be that the Outlaws musicians on the first album were all have not decided what their style is yet. competent--but unknown. His second album They make a pleasant attempt at an Eagle's reads like a who's who of the current parody with "There Goes Another Love California country rock sound. FoglebergSong," but their vocals are just not good has Graham Nash as well as Eagles Glenn enough. On the next song, they sound Frey, Don Henely and Randy Meisner on somewhat like Skynyrd in "Song For You." vocals and competent Sessionmen like Paul However, they have two things going for Harris and AI Perkins on other instruments. them that Skynyrd cannot match. Although Fogelberg was also helped by having Joe their vocals cannot match those of the Walsh on hand to play on every track. Eagles, or even Poco, they are a lot better Walsh, of James Gang fame, is an ac­than any other southern 'tilt boogie band. complished guitarist and his prescence let But more importantly, they have a young ·Fogelberg, concentrate on other in­

Monday, September 22, 1975 

the observer 
5 
\ 

rnc~ 
.-~'*,. ' 
ow'<· 

struments. Walsh also produced this album. 
Although the group is capable of playing His familiartiy with all the musicians some flat out rock, the Cincinnati basedmust've helped him, for this album sounds group is at their best when combiningvery tight. One could swear this is a group bluegrass, rock and country foot stompin'that's been together for years rather than a music.
group of sessionmen. 
Sessionmen aside, this still would've been With Fuller,there was an emphasis on 
a fine recording simply because of ballads which he dominated, especially on 
Fogelberg To put it straight, he simply the Bustin' Out album. As bass player Mike 
writes very attractive songs. He is able to Reilly said, "We're more of a diversified 
hit a number of moods in this album and one group. Craig is quite talentedbut now we all 
feels as if they've lived through every make contributions." 
emotion after playing the recording. The 
sentimental title track, "Souveneirs" has a This can be seen on the very first track. 
very quieting effect as does the almost "Two Lane Highway" is a hard driving song 
mvstical "Song From Half Mountain." which features Goshorn's lead but also has 
Listeners might feel as if Fogleberg has solos by John DavidCall onsteel guitarand 
had quite a lew affairs in his lifetime, for a Michael Connor on piano. Connor shows 
number of his songs dwell on apparent imagination on key boards throughout the 
lover's quarrels. "Morning Sky," album and Call is a steadying force. 
"Someone's been Telling You Stories" and Goshorn contributes most of the faster 
"Better Change" are of varying intensities material while old stand-by George Powell 
and could easily apply to any listener's life. writes pleasant slower songs such as 
<Lyrics only mean what an individual "Runner," and "Give us a Rise." 
listener makes of them.) His "Part of the The group also does their rendition of a 
Plan" is perhaps the catchiest song on the spoof on Merle Haggard--"1'11 FixYour Flat 
album. It is a very bouncy, lively song with Tire, Merle." If for nothing else, this song is 
pleasant lyrics that Fogelberg and Graham worth listening to for the line "Merle, if 
Nash sing quite well. As a matter of fact, you're going to call the world your home you 
that is somethiJY Fogleberg does very well. know you're going to have to get stoned and 
He is able to hit both ends of the scale and it's better to do it with a joint than a drink-1 
he has an attractive, clear voice-a think." 
refreshing change from some "singers." "Pickin' to Meet the Devil" is perhaps the Fogelberg· is a pleadant arrival on any part song that epitomizes PPL best. This song of the country rock scene. features Powell's high-pitched, yet suitable 
Pure Prairie League (PPL) turned out vocals, Connors bouncy piano and John 
two albums in the early seventies, neither of David Call's lively foot stompin' work on 
which sold well. In fact, the group steel and banjo. The song itself is a simple, 
seemingly broke up when lead singer­butthe vitality with which it is played mak• 
writer-guitarist Craig Fuller quih the group lt •a pleasure to listen to. 
to evade the draft board. However, the Three different albums, three different 
group had a mild hit in 1975 with "Arnie," off approaches. Perhaps it is the diversity of 
the Bustin Out album. The group pulled country rock that keeps it going. It is what 
itself back together with Larry Goshorn allows new arrivals like PPL and The 
taking Fuller's place and turned out their Outlaws to form a niche of their own and 
best album to date, Two Lane Highway. there's nothing wrong with that. 


fr. griffin S urchin mass 
photos by greg young 
r 


" .... . ' ,• ·, Monday, September 22, 1975
the observer
6 
Hesburgh asks review of amnesty program 
(continued from page 1) "I am concerned now to do an in­depth study for one year in which we would look at this mass of data from the -Clemency Board and determine the public policy that should emerge," Hesburgh said. "I think it could be done in a University context," he continued. "If we can take up this kind of study, it would be at the Center for Civil Rights." Hesburgh could not comment on
'i 
the feasibility or funding of such a study.
) 
Hesburgh dismissed charges made in the minority report issued last Friday by fellow bG.ard members retired Marine Corps Gen. Lewis Walt; Ralph Adams, president of Troy State University; James Dougovito, instructor at Michigan Technical University; and retired Army Col. Harry Riggs. 
The four charged that the Board was stacked with anti-war liberals who may have "misinterpreted, circumvented and violated at least the spirit" of President Ford's order to establish the Board. 
Hesburgh, an advocate of total, unconditional amnesty for war resisters, said, "My only response 
r 
to General Walt would be, 'The war is over'." 
Hesburgh called the Ford am­nesty program ''the most generous since President Washington, with the exception of the Civil War." 
He explained that of the 15,500 cases reviewed by the Board, 95 per cent received some kind of clemency, and over half of the applicants were granted un­conditional amnesty. The cases the Board reviewed were in­dividuals convicted in Federal or military court of crimes related to the Vietnam war. 
The second part, conducted by 
the U.S. Attorney General, dealt 
with the over 200,000 draft evaders, 
who had not been brought to trial. 
According to Hesburgh, less than 
ten per cent of those individuals 
were indicted and only 8600 were 
tried. 
Hesburgh pointed out that many 
draft evaders may be able to 
return to the U.S. since the At­
torney has declared only 4,000 of 
the 200,000 evaders as indictable. 
The third part of the amnesty 
program, dealing with military 
personnel who deserted, was 
conducted by the military. Nearly 
half of the deserters from Vietnam turned themselves in, according to Hesburgh. 
Military courts granted half the deserters a clemency discharge from the service on the condition that they perform alternate ser­vice. 
Hesburgh pointed out that the Clemency Board left some un­finished work to be completed by the Attorney General. 
"We have several hundred cases remaining where we did not have enough information," Hesburgh said. 
From the completed cases, Hesburgh could generalize about the average applicant for amnesty. 
"Your picture of the college kid going to Canada is a small part of the total number --two or three per cent I would say," Hesburgh said. 
He characterized many of the civilian applicants as "civilians 


INPIRG 

ifhere will be a general information meeting and afterwards a discussion (and sign-up) for planned projects for 1975-?fi 
Come_ and find out what your $3.00 is paying for 
Roo·rn 1-C La For tune 7:00 
with a conscience problem" concerning the war and military amnesty applicants as "11Jilitary with family problems". 
Although an advocate of un­conditional amnesty, Hesburgh was pleased with the outcome of the pro~am.
r------, 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t t t 
t 
t 
t t t t t 

: so 
t 
t USE THIS FOOT. . • . • . TO GET YOU IN FOR FIRST LESSON ONLY (CLIP AD ANDf PRESENT 
TO CASHIER AT TOPf OF STAIRS.. .. . .. .. . 
t 
t 
f CLASSES BEGINf TUES SEPT. 23, 
t IN THE AFTERNOON. 
3 to SPMf ALSO EVERY WED 
AFT.f BEGINNING SEPT 24 
f CHANGE PARTNERSf EVERY MINUTE! 
$2 FOR LESSONf WITHOUT THIS AD 
f f'UN 
t ART HOBBY
f EXERCISE 
t RELAXATION 
POPULARITY t NEW FRIENDS 
CULTURAL 
t DEVELOPMENT AND
f ROMANCE 
: Fran says: 
A LEARN THE . • . • • . . • . ' "FOREVER" BIG
f FIVE
f FORMAL DANCES. . . • 
t FOR YOUR........... FORMAL COCKTAIL f DANCE PARTIES! ! ! ! 
f LEARN THE........ • • f "CURRENT" FAD 
DANCESf SUCH AS: 
A BUMPS•••• HUSTLE. • J FOR RIP SNORTIN' 
t 
f PUB CRAWLIN'! ! ! ! ALSO: 
FACULTY••• STAFFf ONLY A CLASSES BEGIN: 
J TUESDAY EVENINGf SEPT. 23 t 7:30..•1'0... 9:30P.M. 
t 
$2 EACH CLASS ATTEND AS MANY AS 
YOUf WISH. 
f BEGINNERf STUDENT. • • • 
FACULTY•••• STAFFf ONLY 
t MAY JOIN ANY CLASS 
DURING SEMESTER 
~--------4111lt 

t 
t 
t 
t 
t t 
t 
t 
t 
t t t t t 
:
f 
A 
f ' 
f t t f
f
f f f f
f f 
t 
A ' 
f
t 
A J 
A , '
f 
: 
A 
' 

f
f 
A f ' 
f 
f 
f 
A 
f ' 
f 
t'A 
f 
f 
f 
f 
f
f 
f
f 




I As a part of the cultural exchange program between the halls, Walsh ( presented Sorin with this copy of a Roman stature, borrowed from the Architecture Building. Sorin has not yet reciprocated. (Photo by Chris 
~ Smith) 
~..............................................................., ........,,..,( ( ~ NEIGHBORHOOD ~ ( I STUDY HELP PROGRAM ~ 
(' 



( 1 TUTORING I 
r 
( ( ~ Off-campus students ~ ( 
, ( I " I interested in tutoring ~ 
. 
( ' 
( ~ this semester. ~ 
( 

I call • • • • ~ 
~ ' ~ 
~ I TOM----283-8738 ~ 

I MARY----284-5298 I 
r ~ I EILEEN----284-5148 I 
~ 
~ ,. 


< IL D.C.----283-1640 I 
( ) ................... • ...w ~ 
r 
r 
only 1 2 mile Southeast of 
campus 
(across from Kentucky 
Fried Chicken and the 
Linebacker) FOR 


MICHAE~S MEN 
.. For Appt. 27~-7222 
Now, full scholarship assistance for your junior and senior years, plus chance to become a leader in the nuclear energy field. 

Tuit1on. books and educational fees are all included in this new NROTC Nuclear Propulsion Candidate program. Along with $100 a month to help you with your living expenses. And on top of that you have an opportunity to build a rewarding career for yourself in the fast-growing nuclear energy field. 
To qualify, you must have completed one semester each of calculus and physics. or two semesters of calculus and have a B-average or better 
Depending upon your performance. you will be inter­viewed during yoursenioryearforthe Navy's Nuclear Program and for training as a Navy Nuclear Officer 
It you can quality for the demanding yet rewarding 
nuclear field you can anticipate five years of employ­
ment as a regular Navy officer 

For full details on this newNROTC Nuclear Propulsion Candidate program. phone or see your local Navy recruiter. 
Be someone special in the Navy. 

Lt. E. M. Schaefer Military Science Building 
283-6442 


Monday, September 22, 1975 the observer 
7 

Increased influence for SLC emphasized 

(continued from page 2) 
tation. 
The SLC will have to work closely with Student Government and Student Affairs. If they back us up we will be more convincing by making a united effort. 
John Lynch <Off-campus>: The reduction of the SLC membership to 15 from 24 should improve its effectiveness. It will be easier to determine the direction of the 
council and achieve a consensus of opinion. 
It will also reduce the anonymity of the members and should induce better attendan·ce and per­formance. 
Student confidence in the council must have hit a record low 
when Fr. Hesburgh vetoed the sex resolution the council put so much 
time into. What disappointed me especially 
was that Hesburgh took so long to 
render his decision due to !'other 
commitments." I think Fr. Hesburgh will have to take the council more seriously before 
students will. 
Faculty input is essential. Last year the faculty representatives
had the worst attendance record. 
The wisdom and weight the faculty can contribute to the council is necessary for the SLC to be ef­
fective. St'an McLinden <North Quad>: One problem with the SLC is that 
the faculty and administration regard the selection of their 
members as a real chore. They
have no real stake in the SLC and their representative may or may not be interested. 
The attendance from last year indicates that the faculty and 
administration didn't take the SLC seriously. If they don't take the council seriously, you can't expect the President of the University and the Board of Trustees to take it 
· u 1 eas1er for them to let their
Se 
doing the whole place Hawaiian 
_________________,
no s Y· t t· k h th
Anothtr [JrobJem has been that represen a 1ves now ow ey 
on Tuest'1y. Aloha. 
I PEACH TREE I 
BOAR'S HE -~D® RESTAURA .... ':"S
I •DINING ROOM • I 
52885 U.S. 31 Nortf
I RANDALL' I 
in South Bend
I UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT I I TUESDAy NIGHT SPECIAL I I SPAGHETTI AND MEATBALLS I 
I &SALAD 
WITH THIS COUPON $.05 FOR FIRST BEER ( WITH 
I ALL YOU CAN EAT $1.95 
DINNER) 
...........-........~.............. --------------------------------------------------------~ 
WANTED 
Desperately need tickets to any home game. Don 3755. 
Need So. tix (students or GAl and 2 GA tix tor Northwestern. Call Charlie 289-8948. 
Wanted: 6 tix to Chicago concert. Call 284-3226 weekdays; 288-9890 after 5 weekends. 
Need 1-4 student or GA tix for any home game. Will pay good price. Help! Call Jane 5135 
Desperately need 2 GA USC tix tor wife and kid.Call Chip 1026. 
3 students looking for fourth roommate at Campus View. 271­2701 
Wanted: two tickets to Mich.State game. Call Tom at 288-8417. 
Need 2tix tor Pitt game.Call Ralph 8326. 
Need 4 GA tix for Northwestern. Call Pat 277-1609. 
Will trade my MSU tix or cash for 1 Northwestern ticket.Mark 8732. 
Riders wanted to Mexico City or on the way. 233-3902. 
Need GA Navy tix and GA Pitt tix. Call 1652. 
Help! 2MSU tix, 2 USC tix. John 1586. 
Desperately need two GA tix to So. Cal. game. Will pay $ Call Marc 1789. 
I will die unless I get 2 Mich. State tix. Please call me now at 287-0076. Desperate. 
Wanted: 2 GA Southern Cal. tix Call Mary 6680. 
Part-time help wanted Evenings, Fisherman's Whart,Eagle Lake (12 miles). Call (616) 699-7402. 
Wanted:  Two  GA  tickets  for  
Northwestern  game.  Call  Chris  
283-1788.  

Wanted: 2 used Art Traditions by Spencer & Powell. Call Judy 6865. 
Wanted: 2 GA tix tor Northwestern game. Call Chris 283-1788. 
Desperately need USC tickets, will pay well. Call 7937,please. 
Needed: 1 student or GA ticket to usc game. Please cail Ellen at 277-0794. , 
Need 2 tix to Southern Cal. or Georgia Tech. Call Ron 3374. 
Need one N.U. and 2 MSU tix. Call Mary 1285. 
Nt>ed two GA MSU tix and one GA Northwestern ticket. Call Bob 1068. 
Sleep-in night clerk, part-time Capitol Motel. 272-6262. 
the SLC was limited these last 2 feel on the various issues. years or so to only 2or 3 big issues. Andy Simshauser (South Quad): There's nothing wrong with these The power of the SLC lies in its issues, but you can get narrow­ability to pass issues by the Board minded. and take a typical, un­of Trustees. If it is merely an compromising stand. advisory council. its function is 
vague and nebulous.
The student representatives to If it has legislative power it canthe SLC must be open-minded and achieve goals-goals set for the
willing to put off immediate 

student body.

satisfaction for long-range benefits. 
Something should be done to prevent the complete turn-over every year, too. There must be 
some continuity from year to year or else each time a new group ends up starting off with the same issues 
all over again. Jim Spurling <North Quad>: I 
think the SLC was more effective 
in the past when its goals were somewhat different. Recently it has become too concerned with 
specific topics which are really not 
f 

of great concern to the majority o the students. I think the SLC has to reorganize itself by re-defining its goals to concentrate on things the students are most concerned with. 
The SLC candidates (I. to r.l; top row: Mike Richter, Stacy Weaver, Phil Mancini, Tom Hogan, EdThe students have to make sure Van Tassel; bottom row: John Lynch, Sean Mclinden, Jim Spurling, Andy Simshauser, Johnthat there are interested people on 
Salveson the SLC. The council will only be 
as good as the people on it. 
If the council members aren't 
HAWAIIAN NIGHT TUESDAY $3.45
interested, if they allow them­selves to be snowed, then nothing good will come from the SLC. 
Boar's Head brings the 
I think the SLC has a good
chance this year. There is the 
Islands to you. At less than Island 
COUL report to work from. The 
prices! Delicious Hawaiian 
SLC should take the questions and 
chicken dinner is only $3.45 per
the recommendations in the report and work to see how feasible they 
person plus tax. Includes Tropical 
are and how they might be im­
fruit salad, wild rice, a~d sweet 
plemented. 
and sour sauce. Jl.fso: Boar's 
I would like to make the SLC more visible by publishing a 
Head Salad Bar, ho br~ad, Ice 
monthly newsletter. That would 
cream or sherbet, an· :o''fee, tea,
let the students know just what the SL<; is doing and would make ~t 
or milk. All for only ~..~AS We're 
The SLC student representatives must perceive and then act upon issues which directly affect "tudent life. 
The issues as I see them, with no arbitrary importance given to any one are: parietals, alcohol and 
drug  guidelines,  co-ed  dorms,  
women's  sports,  
restructurin  boards  


and  obtaining  and  guarding  the  
students'  rights  to  freedom  and  
priVacy.  

A lot of my friends have advised me not to run for SLC because it will be frustrating trying to buck the administration-but the larger the challenge, the more I respond to it -and it's going to be one hell of a challenge. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Needed: as many GA MSU tix as possible. $$$ 289-9164. 
Need 2 GA Northwestern tickets. Call Paul 3018. 
Need 3 NU and 2 MSU tickets. Call Alice 5494. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: Stereo console (con­temporary model) AM-FM radio. In good condition. $135 or best otter. Call 272-5645 after 3 P.M. 
STEREO EQUIPMENT:major brands at substantial savings;all factory sealed under manufac­turer's warranty. ELLIOTT ENTERPRISES (616) 233-3769 (after 3:30 P..M.) 
For Sale: Compact stereo speakers, headphones. $50 Call 7875. 
For Sale: guitar in good condition. Call Kim 4677. 
ACS lab aprons on sale in 126 Nieuwland and treshmnan labs only $3. 
For Sale: 1971 Triumph TR6.Steel belted radial tires. Call 272-2844 after 5 P.M. 
Portable refrigerator 2 cu.ft. like new includes stand S75. Black & white console TV S25.J. Powell (8­SP.M.) 7784;(6-10)291-2972. 
For Sale: Student season ticket 289-8197. 
FOR RENT 
Furnished apartment. 503 W. Jefferson,duplex 3 rooms.floor gas heat,turnished. 289-6307 ;234-0596. 
Room for rent. $50 per mon­th,share kitchen and bath with one other student. Call 232-9311or 289­9533. 
For rent: Clean comfortable bedroom.study room,and bath. $30 per month.Mrs Spencer 233-4670. 
Needed: someone to share 3­bedroom apeartment. Approx. $95 a month,close to school,a very scenic location. Call AI 288-3095. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: Gold-Bulova-Caravelle watch with football inscribed on the face, in the south dining hall. If found call John 1169. 
Lost: Blue windbreaker with set of keys in pocket. Call Kevin 234-8083. 
PERSONALS 
Are you a turtle? Elect John Salveson SLC Representative. 
DONNA BERNDT tor President of LeMans Closet Club. 
Interested in becoming a Catholic? 
Discussion group being formed. Call Campus Ministry (6536) or drop in the office (103 Lib.) 
NOTICES 

Typing-$.35 per page. Call Dan. 272-5549. 
Will do typing, experienced; manuscripts, themes, term papers.9 Call 233-8512. 
Free  darling  kittens  to  a  good  
home. 6 weeks old.  Call  233-8579  
after 5 P.M.  

Men's shirts, women's clothing, Iiqu id silver,turquoise,plants, s,leather goods at Jennifer's; 119 W. Colfax;11-5:30 Mon-Sat. 
Sunflower Music Shop, vintage stringed instruments. Expert repair, books records,and ac­cessories. 632 Portage Ave. 
Quick loans Morrissey Loan Fund. Up to $150, 30 days, i per cent in­terest. Basement of LaFortune M­F, 11:15-12:15. 
Accurate typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232­0746. 
Fran DeMarko says: Here we go again! Here we go again with social dance instruction. Learn the big five formal dances, namely: Fox Trot, Waltz 
Rock,Rhumba,Cha­Cha,Polka.Aiso the current fad dances,namely: Bump,Hustle, 
Young Frankenstein. Beginning Tuesday or Wednesday afternoon, Sept.23-24 from 3-S P.M. I'll be happy to see you all again! Fran DeMarko. 
.. , 


8 

the observer Monday, September 22, 1975 
Bradley sets record, saves Irish 
by Bill Brink Sports Editor 
It was a classic example of the 
'big play', the 'game-breaker', the 
'turnaround'. 

Whatever you want to call it, Luther Bradley's fourth quarter interception and subsequent 99 ,·ard return for a touchdown was he play of the day in the lrishs' 17­
o victory over Purdue Saturday afternoon in Ross-Ade Stadium. 
It may turn out to be the play of the season, for it certainly saved the game for ND. Going into the fourth quarter the Irish held a slim 3-0 lead, and the Boilermakers had advanced to the ND 4 yard line. Quarterback Craig Nagel, who replaced starter Mark Vitali early in the first quarter, moved the Boilers from their own 30 on three long passes, the last one a fantastic 31 yard completion to wing Paul Beery. It was first and goal at the 4, and a Purdue s.core seemed immanent. 
But the Irish defense, which had come through so often in the game, did the job again. After halfback Scott Dierking carried the ball twir.e for no gain, Purdue coach Al~x Agase reached into his bag of tricks in an effort to capture the lead and a second straight upset over the Irish. 
On third down and goal to go from the four, Nagel handed off to Dierking again. But this time Dierking pulled up and lofted a pass to the left side of the end zone, intended for none other than Nagel, who had raced out of the backfield. Bradley, howeveo;aw the play coming. He ran in front of
1 

Nagel and picked off the wobbly
I pass at the 1, and with nothing ahea·d of him but daylight, he darted 99 yards down the sideline for the touchdown, giving the Irish 
point made it 17-0 with 7:59 left in the game. Bradley nearly had another 
interception a minute later, but fellow cornerback Tom Lopienski raced in front of him to pick off a third Nagel pass at the ND 45. Joe Montana came in at quarterback 
~~~ ~~r~~!~ ~~~J~!!~~~ ~?:;a!~ 
to Doug Buth was intercepted in the end zone with 15 seconds left in the game. 
As in last weeks game against Boston College, it was again a case Of the Irl. sh defense rna king up for 

the lack of offensive execution. Hampered by youth and inex­perience, the Irish '0' suffered from little mistakes which stalled their drives in the first half. Quarterback Rick Slager had two good passes dropped in the first quarter, and one time the offense stood still after a snap thinking that the play was dead. They lost nine yards. 
·"You think about things like that," said Slager. "You think 'what if. . -~·. But if you let it bother you you get tight. The dropped passes didn't bother me because I knew I could depend on those guys next time. But I do 
think we got a little more con­servative after that." 

The Irish did manage to drive down to the Purude 12 yard line in the first quarter on the running of Browner and AI Hunter and a 24 
yard completion to Hunter· But they could not get in the end zone and settled for a 29 yard Dave Reeve field goal with 7:37 gone in the game.
·Luckily the offense didn't have to 

be explosive because the defense was spectacular. Ross Browner led the Irish, notching up 11 tackles, sometimes 10 or 15 yards downfield. Steve Niehaus and 
Bradley had eight. They gave a little but held when they had to, and came up with the breaks that bailed the offense out. "Thanks to our defense we were
able to make some mistakes on offense," said halfback AI Hunter· 
"They can cover up for us." That just about told the story of the game.
Slager was 4of 12 for the day for 53 yards. Jim Browner was the 
73

game's leading rusher with yards. Hunter added 57, while
Mark McLane and Jerome 
Heavens had 42 each. Nagel was 12 of 20 for Purdue, gaining 130 yards in the air. But the Boilermakers ground game totaled only 66 yards in 35 carries. 
"The boys certainly played their hearts out," said Purdue caoch Alex Agase, "but Notre Dame deserved the win. They had it all today, a powerful offense and 
defense. 

The Irish suffered only one in­jury, a sprained ankle by Randy Harrison in the first quarter. Tim 
Simon replaced him at free safety, full week to prepare. but Harrison is expected to be "This has been a tough week," ready next Saturday when ND Devine said. "I'm so anxious to hosts Northwestern. get home I can taste it." After playing two games in six After winning his first two days, Devine and his brui~ed games as Notre Dame coach on the players are glad to be headmg road, the taste will be a little bit home, and even ilappier to have a sweeter. 
Tom Kruczek ========~==========~=~=~=====================================================================================~ 
Extra Points 
···················o:·········=·=-;o=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·;o=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=F1••st hall b 1 ues
~-~-~~-~-~-~-~-~-~-=-~·~-~·~·-..·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-._._·-·~-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-. .& j 
For the second week in a row, the Irish offense failed to get on track in the first half. Last week against Boston College the score was 3-3 at the end of the first 30 minutes of play, and Saturday it was 3-o in favor of Notre Dame. Both weeks, the defensive performance allowed for the offense to make mistakes and get away with them. 
Against Boston College a week ago, the Irish ground attack led by Jim Browner, picked up 131 yards in the first half. But against the Boiler­makers, the offense could muster just 112 yards, 35 coming in the air. With statistics like that, the likely culprit to look to could be the quar­terback, Rick Slager. But that isn't the case this week. Slager completed 2 of 7 attempts; however, two good passes were dropped by usually steady receivers, Dan Kelleher and Ted Burgmeier. 
After the game, in the spacious confines of the visiting team locker room at Ross-Ade Stadiu, various people offered different explanations of the first half blues. Irish coach Dan Devine pointed out that there is a lot of improvement to be made, "but now it is merely a matter of discipline and playing hard until we do well together." 
Mistakes, this week and last seem to be plaguing the offense. Against Boston College in the first half Mark McLane's 41 yard run set up a fine scoring opportunity of first and goal on the Eagle nine. But Slager was thrown for a six-yard loss trying to pass, and a delay of game penalty put the Irish at the 16 with goal to go after a three yard screen pass. At this point, the offense had to settle for a field goal. 
At Purdue, the first half mistakes featured dropped passes and a line screw up which netted Slager a 9-yard loss. Slager explained the play as a "mixup on the count. It was supposed to go on two, but the ball came back early, and half of the line didn't realize the ball was snapped. I was waiting for a whistle on the play, and one didn't come, and I learned a 
lesson on that play to just fall down and cover up the ball if something like 
that happens." The personable quarterback then expounded on the team's first half problems. "I think our slow start in the half was due to the youth of the team, plus some bad breaks. We were just inches away, I know it, just inches away from breaking the game open. Now we are going to start 
coming together." He also gave credit to the defense who stopped Boston College for 130 yards in the first half last week and gave Purdue just 111 yards. "The defense and the super job they have been doing gives us a chance to grow up. It takes some time for an offense to come around, but I can feel it 
. now_, AI Hunter echoed those sentiments. "Our first half problems seem to come from our inexperience. We're young and making too many mental mistakes, but it's still early." The offense seemed to close itself up, throwing its two completed passes early in the half, and then relying almost exclusively on the ground game. Hunter explained that "the height on the defensive line made it difficult to pass over, so we tried to establish our running game. But again, we were making too many mistakes and that's what cost us." 
The season, however, is just two games old and the team is young. Next week against Northwestern will be a good chance to evaluate the offense. It will have a full week to prepare for the Wildcats, and as Slager noted "some of the people were still stiff from the Boston College game and now we will have a week to get ready." 
After Northwestern, the season does get tougher, with Michigan State and Southern Cal coming to Notre Dame in the month of October. But for the moment, Dan Devine's squad will concern itself with Northwestern. Asked about the Wildcats, Sl~ger's mouth turned into a big grin, "that's right, no~ we get a chance to play at home, in front of our crowd." 
The first half blues -I think we've seen the last of them. The team has gone through two tough games in five days, both coming on the road. :Now it's time to join the mania of the Notre Dame crowd and watch the offense start to e:ell. 
*Observer 



) 
) 
a 10-o lead. 
The play set a Notre Dame record for an interception return for a touchdown, surpassing Jack Elder's 96 yarder in 1929. And it quite obviously turned the game around. 
"We needed a big play," said Notre Dame coach Dan Devine. "We hadn't had one, and I'd have to say it was a good time to get one." 
"I was thinking he was going all 
the way," he continued, "and of 
course the first thing I looked for 
were flags. After being in the 
business this long it's the first 
thing I look for." 
"One play, just one play," said Purdue coach Alex Agase. "That did us in." 
Bradley himself admitted he didn't expect the play _but that he saw it develop. 

"I saw the halfback turn and I knew what it was going to be,'' he explained. "I was supposed to guard the tight end, but he must have blocked. I was really sur­prised by the play, but it was a badly thrown pass and once I got it I was just thinking goal line." 
Ironically, it was Bradley who was beaten fairly consistently during the first three quarters, usually on short sideline patterns, which Luther admits he is still learning to cover. But his dramatic runback proved to be just the beginning of what was to be a spectacular fourth quarter. 

When the Boilermakers regained possession after Bradley's return, the sophomore cornerback in­tercepted another Nagel pass at the Purdue 23 on the first play from scrimmage. This time he returned it only two yards, but the Irish offense took it the rest of the way. Staying on the ground, ND used 7 plays with AI Hunter taking it in from the two. Dave Reeve's extra 

The jubilant Irish players empty the bench and crowd around Luther Bradley after his 99 yard in­terception return in Saturday's 17-0 victory over Purdue. 







