

server 
university of notre dame -st. mary's college
Vol. X, No. 55 Tuesday, November 18, 1975 
Bowen announces start of re-election campaign

BREMEN, Ind. <AP> -Gov. Aide hsaid after the speech Otis R. Bowen launched In-that Bowen would accept only a diana's first gubernatorial re-el-straight delay with no strings ection campaign since pre-civil attached. Last spring, the idea war days Monday with a prom-died when Democrats tied the ise to work first and politik sec-delay to sweeping changes in ond. Bowen's tax pro~ram. 
The Republican governor, 
elected by a record 303,000 Eligibility amendment votes in 1972 after 15 years in the state legislature, told a Bowen is eligCble for re-elec­
hometown high school con· 
1972

vocation he wanted a second tion under a constitutional
1851
term "to preserve and nourish amendment lifting the ban the accomplishments of the against a governor succeeding
himself.
first four years. No Hoosier has ever headed 
the state for eight consecutive Ht>asst>ssmt>nt delay years, although before 1851 sev­eral were elected to two three-
Later at a news conference, year terms. Bowen called for the legislature He said the campaign "will to delay the scheduled election be open, forthright and vigor­year property reassessment ous." But added: "It will not that could mar the property tax detract from my duties as gov­relief he considers the keystone ernor because I must continue of his adminstration. to discharge those responsi-
The legislature gathers Tues-bilities." day for its annual one-day or-. He said he would continue ganizatinal session. Majority ·working 12-16 hours a day, and House Democrats already plan said that his appearances at Bi­to ram through bills delaying centennial celebrations would the reassessment, increasing be apolitical. personal income tax ex-At a noon meeting with GOP emptions and unemployment county chairmen, Bowen cam­benefits. paign manager J .B. King said 
Bowen said the last two ef-party workers would have to forts should be handled routine-accept the fact that the gover­ly in the regular legislative ses-nor's duties would keep him sion beginning Jan. 5. But he from attending many political said the reassessment delay functions. "It's going to be a "must occur as early as pos-little frustrating," he said. sible, possibly even tomorrow." The Bowen campaign ap­The reassessment, which could peared to be little different result in a property tax in-than the one than spoiled a po­crease, is scheduled to start litical comeback attempt by Jan. l. It would be reflected in former Democratic Gov. Mat­1979 property tax bills payable thew Welsh in 1972. King, an in 1980. Indianapolis attorney, managed 
ND-SMC administrations uncertain about calendar 
by Marti Hogan Starr Reporter 
Although the St. Mary's and Notre Dame administrations have not yet reached a decision on the 1975-1976 academic calendar, St. Mary's would like to keep a post-labor day start and still have an October break, according to Sr. M. Francesca Kennedy, assistant to John M. Duggan, St. Mary's president. 
"There are a lot of reputable colleges who dothat" Kennedy said. "We offer reputable classes with good content and an October break would not hurt them." 
"Seventy-two is no magic number," Kennedy pointed out, referring to the recent statement Notre Dame Provost Fr. James 
T. Burtchaell that Notre Dame's claendar must consist of a specificnumber of school days. 
Kennedy, who is a member ofthe Academic Council, again stated that St. Mary's courses do not depend on a specific number of days. 
Although the administrations have not yet decided, "I don't think there is a possibilty of the two schoolshavingseparate calendars," Kennedy said. "there would be too many hassels." 
She then cited the difficulties students would have finding rides home if the schools had two different "holidays" and the conflicts that would result with the co-exchange courses. 
Kennedy noted considerable concern on the part of the students on both compuses and she hopes for a compromise. 
St. Mary's students, in conjunction with Mike Gassman, Notre Dame cademic commissioner, conducted a survey last Thursday in the St. Mary's din in~ hall concerning six calendar rroposals. 
According to the ftrst proposal, the semester wil runfrom Aug. 25 to Dec. 21 and will include a one-week October break and a four and one-half-day Thanksgiving break. 
The second proposal suggests the semester will run from Sept.l to Dec. 21 with no October break, but it will include a one-week Thanksgiving break. 
The third proposal again states the semester will run from Sept. 1 to Dec. 21. However, it will include a four-day October break and a four and one-half-day Thanksgiving break. 
The only difference between the third and fourth proposals is an extra day during the October break for the fourth proposal. 
A post-Labor Day start is suggested for the fifth proposal with the semester plannedto run from Sept. 8 to Dec. 21. It includes no October break, a four and one-half-day Thanksgiving break, and one day of Saturday classes. 
The last proposal also suggests the semester will run from Sept. 8 to Dec. 21. However, this proposal includes a four-day October break and a five-day Thanksgiving break. 
Joanie Durlacher, vice-preseident of St. Mary's student affairs, and Joan McDermott, St. Mary's student body president, presented the COIJlPleted survey to Duggan last Thursday night. 
"Dr. Duggan suggested the idea of the survey," said McDermott, "He wanted to know what the students wanted." "We'll see him on Friday, and will discuss them then," McDermott added. 
Bowen's campaign that year and the 1976 headquarters will I be at the same location as four • years ago. 
1 
Bowen told newsmen hr would be "happy to run again~' with GOP Lt. Gov. Robert I . Orr, although he "wouldJ· stand in the way" if Orr OPI.• l. for something else. 
Bowen sai he was "reason­
1
ably pleased -one should nev-· 
er feel totally pleased" -with ~ his administration's accom­
P. lishments. "We ha.ve fresh Ideas . . . about new Issues and 
about unresolved problems," he
said. 
Tax program 
He said the top achievement of his first term was the tax restructuring program that he pushed through a reluctant 1973 legislature. 1 
The program cut property taxes a minimum 20 per cent while doubling the state sales I tax to four per cent and author­izing a 1 per cent county tax on individual income. 
The tax program was the fo­cal point of Bowen's 1972 cam­paign, and it's passage cli­

maxed the fight he carried Dr. Otis Bowen began his re-election campaign yesterday In an effort through a record tenure of four to become the first Indiana governor to succeed himself since 1851. 
sessions as House speaker. It becoming governor.also likely will be the major is­sue next year, with Democrats Chances in primary contending that individuals pay most of the higher taxes while 
Bowen said his somewhatbusiness reaps most of the re­early announcement was tolief. 
compensate for the unusual cir­Other accomplishments, Bow­cumstances of running in a 
en said, are the accelerated In­statewide primary and to leaveterstate highway construction no doubt of his intentions be­program, port development, fore the legislature startedprogress in finding a solution to work, he said.
the deteriorating rail situation He noted that he announcedand the 1974 medical malprac­his 1972 candidacy in Novembertice insurance law. 
of 1971.
He also noted that the state's doctor shortage has been eased The May primary will be the with number of physicians now first in four decades to nomi­expanding faster than the popu­nate candidates for governor, lation. Bowen is a family physi­lieutenant governor and U.S. cian, but hasn't practiced since senator, who were removed 

Students to lobby for lower drinking age 
by John Shaughnessy Staff Reporter 

The Indiana Student Association <ISA) held its first annual fall legislative conference in In­dianapolis last weekend to discuss its common concerns. Changing the state drinking age to 18 is the ISA 's first priority. 
The ISA is a student lobby organization designed to represent and advocate the interests of students attending both public and private colleges in the state. 
Only 19 of the 47 charter mem­bers of the ISA sent representat­ives. Tom Black, student lobby coordinator, represented Notre Dame. 

Joan Me Dermott, student body president, and Mary Lou Bilek, student body vice-president of student affairs, composed the St. Mary's delegation. 
Commenting on the drinking age priority, Steve Kruse, one of In· diana University's representatives to the ISA, said, "When the lobby steering committee met, we more or less decidedt that the 18 year old drinking age would be our number one concern." 
"It's the one issue that seems to affect almost every college in the state," he added. 
Bodine advises students 

Kruse's stateement followed State Representative Richard Bodine's advice that the ISA establish two or three main priorities from its list of concerns. 
Bodine also recommended the one workshop at the ISA's con­student lobbyists contact their ference was directly established to representatives to find their 1 discuss the issue. 
position on lowering the drinking age and other issues. 
"If they don't agree with you," Bodine said, "there's a very simple policy to follow -beat three or four representatives in the next election. Then they'll get the message." 
Both Bodine and Kruse specifically cited the Notre Dame student lobby for its efforts in attempting to change the legal age to 18. 
Black and Jerry Klingenberger are the major officers in the Notre Dame lobby. Black is also con· sidered a central figure in the ISA concerning this issue, according to several ISA members. 
In attempting to achieve a lowered drinking age, according to Kruse, the ISA will use its Student Legislative Involvement Project <SLIP>. 
SLIP is a grassroots lobbying network that was established to generate a more informed and politically activated student electorate, Kruse said. 
The network involves contacting other participants in the project, communicating with legislators and exercising the rightto vote. 
Despite the fact that a lowered drinking age is the top priority, not 
Kruse stated, "Most of the work and research has been formulated. All that remains is a commitment on the part of all the pelllle in­
volved  to  put the  plans into  ac­ 
tion."  
Other concerns  

The basic concern of the ISA 's conference involved educational areas including appropriation of funds by the state General Assembly to maintain excellence of higher education, prevention of tuition and fee increases at state universities and a greater dispersion of state scholarship funds. 
Most of these areas deal solely with public colleges. 
Noticing this factor, Randy Berta, ISA vice-president for private schools, stated the private schools must gain a stronger in­fluence in the organization's af­fairs. 
"Since we represent ap­proximately half the colleges in the ISA, we should be able to become a more viable force in the direction it should be led," Berta commented. 
Contrary to the public colleges' wishes, Berta would like to see the state scholarship funds be in· creased for individuals presently receiving funds rather than dispersed among more students. 
The present scholarship maximum is $1400. The public ~continued on page 3) 

from the policitcal convention system of nomination in 1975. 
Bowen is expected to have little or no primary opposition, but he still must gather peti­tions with 500 signatures from each of the state's 11 congres­sional districts to qualify for the ballot. 
King told the county chair­men that Bowen plans to file for re-election on Feb. 19, the first day it can be done, with petitions from all 92 counties. 
The morning convocation ad· 
dress, delivered to a standing 
room only crowd in the Bremen 
high school gymnasium, was 
devoted mainly to a national 
frustration with mounting prob­
lems. 




Third meeting in series 

Conference to discuss ZOning ISSUe
TRENTON, N.J. -Karen Anne Quinlan's parents appealed the court decision yesterdayuf Superior Court Judge Robert Muir Jr., to keep Miss Quinlan plugged into the respirator that is keeping her alive. They would like the legal authority to let their daughter, who is in "chronic vegetative state" and a coma, die. 
MINEOLA, N.Y.-The Nassau County medical examiner ruled Monday that the death of 16-year-old Maryjane Dahl, who was terminally ill, was a homicide commited by someone who pulled the plug on her life-sustaining respirator. 
Dr. Leslie Lukash's report made no attempt to single out a suspect in the apparent mercy death Nov. 2 of Maryjane, who was suffering from meningitis and Hodgkin's disease with kidney failure. She went into a coma after entering Nassau Hospital Oct. 
25. 
an campus taday 
9 am-4 pm --book sale, great hall of O'shaughnessy. 
--mini-course, "data management options," rm. 5.9 
library. 
12 'lOOn 
12:15 pm --reading, original poetry, by sonia gernes, rm. 361, o'shag. 3:30pm --computer course, "spss-a statistics package for the social sciences," rm. 115, comp. cent. 
4:30pm --seminar, "the role of dihydrotestosterone in the regulation of reporductive processes in the rat," by dr. 
v. gay, rm. 278, galvin aud. 7 pm --lecture, "aircraft weight turbulance--the invisible hazard," by dr. robert nelson, rm. 12, aerospace lab. 7 pm --discussion, "contraception, pregnancy and abor­tion," by prof. donald barrett, basement, lewis hall. 
7,9 & 11 pm --film, "lenny", eng. aud., $1. --presentation, "chemistry behind film and paper
7:15pm 
development," 206 o'shag. 7:30pm --discussion, collective bargaining, lead by george horton, university club. 7:30pm --meeting, charismatic prayer, rathskellar, Iafortune. 

St. Mary's
.

encouraging 
by Kathy Byrne Starr Reporter 
The Academic Affairs Council at St. Mary's College has an­nounced the institution of an op­tional minor program for next semester. 
Student interest was the main 
reason fori the .decision, according 
to Gail Mandell, assistant to the 
vice president for academic af­
fairs. 
"Many of the departments are 
still in committees to determine 
curriculum requirements," 
Mandell explained.
"There's nothing definite yet, 
although about 10 departments 
have turned their requirements 
and guidelines in to the curriculum 
council," she added. 
After the departments deter­
mine their minor requirements, 
the curriculum council reviews th­
em and turns themover to the 
Academic Affairs Council. 
The council is the final decision 
making body in all academic 
The Ob~erver i~ published Monday through Friday and weekly during the ~ummer ~e~sion, except during exam~ and vacation period~. The Ob~erver ~~ published by the ~tudent~ of the Un1v of Notre D'ame and St Mary·~ College 
Sub~cnpt1on~ may be purchased for 10 dollar~ per ~eme~ter (18 dollar~ per year) from The Ob ~erver, Box Q, Notre Dame, In d1ana, 46556 Second Clas~ postage pa1d, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Those Famous College Paintings 
...a list of 1500 to 
NOTRE DAME & SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE MIRROR NOW ON DISPLAY AT 

j 
:1 
I, 
The county-wide zoning or­dinance proposed by the St. Joseph County Plan Commission will be one of the topics on the agenda of a five session conference on Zoning and Constitutional Rights. The conference, planned by the Center for Civil Rights of the University of Notre Dame and the South Bend League of Women Voters will run from Wed., Nov._l9 through March 10 in the Center for Continuing Education. 
"Zoning and the Right to Privacy" is the subject for the 7:30 
p.m. Wed. meeting in Seminar Room 150. 
Speakers will focus on zoning ordinances designed to promote family and youth values, to restrict certain areas to single-family dwellings and limit the definition of a family, or to preserve or create neighborhoods where one life-style and value system is predominant or to create mixed communities. 
Topics for future meetings will be "Zoning and the Rights to P­roper~y" on bee. 10, "Zoning and the Right to Equal Protection" on. 

Jan. 21, "Zoning and the Right to Association" on Feb. 25, and "Zoning and the Right to the Pursuit of Happiness" on March 10. 
In addition to the five public meetings there will be five t­elevision presentations on the same topics \at a time and date to be announced. 
The conference has a general Bicentennial theme of "Zoning and 
Sanchez named Sr. Night Editor 
Dan Sanchez has been named to the Observer Editorial Board as Senior Night Editor. 
Sanchez, a junior Government and Economics major from San Antonio, Texas, has been on the Observer production staff fro three years. This year he served as Thursday night editor. 
Sanchez's appointment is ef­fective immediately. 
~ir 1Richnrd's 
BARBER STYLING 

the Constitution: Private Rights and the Public Interest." 
It is made possible through a matching grant from the Indiana Committee for the Humanities in Cooperation with the National Endowment for the Humanities. 
( *the observer _l 
Night Editor: Bob Brink Assistant Night Editor: Maureen Flynn 
Day Editor: Don Reimer, Bob Made, Ken Girouard Copy Reader: Kathy Mills Editorials: Ken Girouard Features: Tom Paullus Sports: Bill Brink Typists: Mary Tobin, Neil Viii, Camille Arrieh, Karen Hinks Compugraphic: Morey Blinder Night Controller: Dave Rust Ad Layout: Joe Graif 
A GIFT OF DISTINCTION FOR CHRISTMAS OR FOR ANY OTHER 
SPECIAL OCCASION .... FAMILY, 
ALUMNI, OR SWEETHEARTS. 
By now, these handsome college scences-skillfully 
hand-painted in oils on the reverse side of glass-have be­
come an American tradition. Each and every painting is 
destined to become a unique and cherished heirloom. 
With over 1500 scenes to choose from, it is more than

FromI 

likely that your school is included in our growing list. Visit our store or give us a call; we cannot think of a better gift for your favorite graduates-or their dads-at this time of year. Allow ten days for delivery. 


QJOJ ~'.
mbe Wnicorn ~ 
FTS OF DISTINCTION 
~ 
PHONE 2!5!5-1341 GARY JEWEL~ 100 CENTER OWNER MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 4(5544 
Tuesday, November 18, 1975 
the observer 
3 

Senior trip features spring break in Bahamas 
by Jim Commyn 
Starr Reporter The senior class ·officers an· nounced last Thursday this year's class trip will be to the Bahamas. The trip is scheduled for spring break, March 13·20. 
"We chose the area," treasurer, 
Pat  Dore  said,  "because  the  
Bahamas  offers  something  for  
everyone to do."  

"This year we do not have the opportunity to go to California for the USC game," he added. 
The timing was poor for the other two games that were any great distance away, he said. "The Air Force game in October was too early and the Miami game this weekend is too close to Thanksgiving," he noted. 
"We wanted something dif· ferent," he explained, "something more than a weekend and a foot· ball game." 
Currently the price of the t~ip ~s $285. Dore pointed out the pnce IS not fixed and may go down. 
"I don't see the price going up at all " he said. 
'If the price is lowered, the officers will decide what will be done with the extra funds. 
The possibilities of rebates or offering more parties during the 
week's  stay  have  already  been  
discussed,  
"Although  the  $285  may  seem  

high now we are offering a better deal than last year's class," Dore 
said. 
The length of the trip is eight days and seven nights rather than an extended weekend. All costs except meals are included in the price. 
Vice-President Sue Caranci called 
the trip "the best around." 
Some of the week's festivities include a rum swizzle party upon arrival, several happy hours and a large St. Patrick's Day party. 
Dore pointed out the class has been together for St. Patrick's Day only once and that spending it together in Freeport would be something different. 
Other events ·include time to scuba dive, golf, shop, or take in the sun on the beaches. Hotels 

Students to lobby for lower drinking age 
(continu(ftf from page 1) 
colleges would like the ceiling reduced to $700 while Berta recommends an increase to $1800. 
Other areas, according to Berta, to which private schools, such as Notre Dame and St. Mary's, should 
offer their greatest support are 
legislation  which  would  give  
students  greater  control  over  
assessing  student  activity  and  

service fees, support of the removal of the sales tax on text books and a passage of landlord­tenant legislation. 
Black recognized the need for landlord-tenant legislation for the off-campus situation at Notre Dame. Too many problems exist in the present set-up, he said. 
State Representative John Day is sponsoring legislation in the next legislative session which would define the responsibilities and protect the rights of both Ian-
SMC overcharge can be applied to account t suMMER inPROGR~M t t LONDON -ROME f
St. Mary's students who askea to be handed over to the Development t college credits avail. tor further have the four dollar overcharge on Office hopefully by Feb. 1, she into dr. a. r. black 4-4948 
f 

the Student Government fee stated. HOME: 272-7326 

refunded will have the money 
form of cash or checks. 
credited to their accounts.  
No  money  will  be  given  out  
pt·rsonally  to  the students in  the  

"The rebate will be applied to t•ither lab fees or next semester's
tuition." according to Les Hit­chcock of the business office. Student Body President Joan 
McDermott said that $3060 has been collected for the athletic fund
from students who did not request the rebate be applied to their bill. 
The money will be added to the funds collected in class, hall and social commission collections, McDermott said. The money will dlords and student-tenants. 
Since St. Mary's is having some 
difficulties collecting student 
activity fees, both Me Dermott and 
Bilek said the private schools' 
discussion of different collection 
methods proved worthwhile. 
"It gave us a good idea of other 
methods we might use," Me 
Dermott stated. 
ISA successes 
The ISA was formed in August, 1974, by several state-supported universities that wanted to coor­dinate their student governments' lobbying efforts. 
At that time, its legislative priorities were also established. 
They included opposing tuition increases at state universities, securing student representation on state university boards of trustees and lowering the drinking age. 
• 
Lowering the drinking age IS the only one of these priorities which has not been achieved. 
Last year, the ISA lobbied successfully for a bill which added a voting member to each of the Indiana, Ball State, Indiana State and Purdue Universities' boards of trustees. 
The ISA has also received a commitment from the legislature that the tuition for state schools' will not be increased. 
In April, 1975, the ISA established a General Assembly under the direction of Kurt Flock, ISA president. The Assembly consists of two representatives from each member campus. 
In this same month, the ISA constitution was amended to provide for two vice-presidents instead of one, making a separate vice-president individually responsible to both public and private schools. 
SMC



,-.-------, 

UNDA STUDENT NIGHT SUNDAY NOV 9th NO COVER CHARGE & 
YOUR FIRST DRINK 1/2 PRICE WITH THIS AD & YOUR
NO OR SMC 10 HE WHITE HOUSE IN 
8 MI. N. OF STATE TAKE 31 TO NILES THEN NOR'l'H ON 51 3 MILES. 683-9842 

3 REAS N TO 
GO GREYHOUND 
TO CHICAGO 
1) New reduced fare $4.70 one-way $9.40 round-trip 
2)  Leaves from Main Circle every Friday at 5:45 Tickets sold at circle--call before every Friday to assure yourself a seat.  
3)  Thanksgiving bus--leaves Tuesday Nov. 25 at 5:45 from Main Circle--stops at 95th & Dan Ryan and Downtown only--call Sunday Nov. 23 to make reservations--assure yourself a seat.  


FOR FURTHER INFORMATION 

have selected that are close to the ~ far, the trip is only open to 
hub of Freeport's night life as well · 

"Currently 293 plane seats are available" Dore explained, "but 
more can be added easily should 
they be needed." 

A non-refundable deposit of $50 is 
due before Dec. 12, the Friday before final exams. Final payments must be paid by Jan. 30, 
1976. 

Deposits can be paid on the first floor-of LaFortune between noon and 3 p.m. daily until Thanksgiving break. 
semors at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. The package will be of· fered to underclassmen if all the seats are not taken. 
Caranci urged seniors to sign up 

quickly. "That's the only way the 
trip can be a success," she ex­
plained. Both Caranci and Dore em­phasized the fact that the trip will be the last big class activity prior to the graduation festivities. The trip would provide a real unifying force to close the year on a good note, they said. 


-·----------------------------------' 
*~d.Q~,~ver
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is published by the students of the University EDITORIAL BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported AI Rutherford Managing Editor as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent Jim Eder Executive Editor the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, Ken Girouard News Editor cartoons and regular columns express the views of their Bob Mader Campus Editor authors. Column space is available to all members of the Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Ken Bradford Copy Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Val Zurblis Wire Editor 
Tom O'Neil Features Editor Editorials: 283-1715 News: 283-1661 Business: 213-7471 Bill Brink Sports Editor Chris Smith Photo Editor
Business Manager Tom Modglin Dan Sanchez Senior Night EditorAdvertising Manager Tom Whelan 
Tuesday, November 18, 1975 

P.O. Box Q 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trude~
I 

"7Hli5AIPC/i'.4fT5MAN /)(/fiJN6 liE-1 I SAIP 7EI?M SHAU 8Y 7HE NST HEANS ~ M5THOI? 7HAT He CAN 7£4CH OR CAUSe THE 5AIPIIPPKEN­
7/C£ 8E 711U6HT THE.4KTOFA 5/tVERSMITH. 

Neuer Again 
Dear Editor: 
In keeping with the principles of humanism, liberalism, and un­derstanding upon which this University justifies its existence, I urge The Observer, the student government, and the students th­emselves to join in the nearly unanimous condemnation of the vote of the United Nations which wrongly associates and equates Zionism with racism. 
While we at Notre Dame may feel that this is an external problem, divorced from the University in general and from us as individuals in particular, I suggest that it is exactly that kind of complacency and non-eoncern which makes it possible for such attacks by individual stl,ltes and world organizations to recur and persist. I call upon the students by editorial, by proclamation, 'by letter, or by any other ap­propriate means to join the many other individuals and organizations, including the World Council o(Churches in condemning this attempt to give Hitler and his 
followers a second chance. 
Michael J. Grossman 
Band Defended 
Dear Editor: 
In defense of the Notre Dame 
band and the cheerleading squad, I 
find Mr. Grady's statements 
vicious and unfounded. First of all, 
our cheerleaders are not 
inadequate, they are probably the 
most photogenic group on campus. 
Moreover, our marching band has 
over 100 years of experience-and 
you question their adequacy. It seems that your letter is more of an attack on N.D. as an institution than on the "side-show" provided. 
It should be stressed that Notre Dame is tradition and to break this tradition is to destroy the essence of Notre Dame. Obviously our cheerleaders cannot change their cheers. To bring about change would undoubtedly lead to the lewd . display of sexually oriented cheers. If all you want is the arousal of your sex drive you can transfer to U.S.C. You have ob­viously forgotten that the alumni in · the .stands came to see cheers of yesteryear 
Moreover, what more joy could an alumni of the band have than to hear the same three songs he played decades ago'? To abandon the high school routine would lead to a schizophrenic student body. How could we cope with the in­consistancies of a creative and stimulating cheerleading squad and band with a structured and regimented school? To arouse a fervor would be inconsistent with the boredom that is an integral part of N.D. and South Bend. After all, this is not a liberated state school-but more of a "finishing school". To give the alumni the idea that it is otherwise would undoubtedly end with the down­ward spiral of financial con­tributions to this fine institution. 
Stan Walker 


Medic's Ethics 
Dear Editor: 
For years all I've wanted was to become a good, Catholic doctor. I came to N.D.seeking an education that would prepare me both scientifically and morally for that goal. Because of recent articles about unethical tactics on the part of some premeds, I have become discouraged from medicing and disappointed in N.D. 
I seem to have two alternatives: 
1. take what grades I can honestly earn (while others cheat and get higher grades) then take my chances with medical school ad­missions, or 2. cheat myself (I would probably get away with it) and thus insure my admission to medical school. What a choice! 
I had hoped (in vain?) that of . all colleges ND would offer me a better choice. What happened to our nationally famous Catholic education? Am I to assume we leave our Catholic ethics in Sacred Heart church and lock them out of our classrooms and laboratories'! 
N.D. is a nationally recognized premed school. We definitely have a good program scientifically, but dowe produce good future doctors? 
It's time to take a stand and put more emphasis on ethics than grades. Maybe the other schools will follow our example, maybe not. So what? Being Catholic has almost always meant being dif­ferent from the crowd, why should it be different now? 
Joseph G. Viviano Class of '79 · 


Crime Waue 
Dear Editor: John Bennett Shaw's recent talk on Sherlock Holmes may have struck some people as amusing. To my mind it was singularly out of place at a time when the high level of crime deserves much fuller coverage and discussion. Let it be understood that not all of us share the current widespread en­thusiasm for Holmes. 
Prof. James Moriarty 


:~~~;:< ' 
,•,'•'' ./· 

Food Co-op Apologia 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii tom fitz 9 eraId 
The success of any student service venture is determined by the extent to which the students support the service offered. The failure of Student Government to start a food coop is a result of a number of factors, one of them being a lack of student interest. Certainly, there were other factors; timing problems, poor organization and a lackof publicity helped foster the lack of student interest. 
The problems started when Steve Shankel proposed his original plan. Steve had hoped for 2000 memberships, unfortunately, even at this early point, student response was weak and only 500 students signed up. 
This initial problem was compounded when Steve could not stay to work on his plan over the summer because of a committment to the Air Force which had to be honored. At this point, I talked to Ed Byrne and told him that I would try to pick up the pieces that Steve left behind. Stan Cardenas and I proceeded to acquire as much information as we could concerning coops. The first problem we discovered was that the coop that Steve planned would result in insufficient capital. To the average person this sounds in­consequential, but to anyone who has a knowledge of coops, adequate capital is absolutely necessary for a successful coop. Steve's plan of "five dollars in the spring or ten dollars in the fall" would not have supplied the capital needed for his coop. Also, this marketing approach, should not be used to start a coop. The first members of a coop should not be offered a better deal than sub­sequent members. 
Stan, Ed and myself decided not to run a registration drive that was doomed to failure from the start. We started work on a realistic plan that would be successful if students really wanted a COOP. 
Our first problem was to decide on a membership fee that was both adequate and equitable. We then needed to find the correct type of coop for the Notre Dame Community. We decided on a per household fee of $25 which we felt would insure the needed capital while remaining equitable. 
One point that I don't believe The Observer gave adequate at­tention to was that the membership fee was redeemable as the student graduated -this was a major factor that led to apathy on the part of students. Some people thought that $25 was too much, evenThe Observereditorial said we failed to present an inexpensive coop. Steve Shankel's Coop would have cost a 4 member household $20.00 at the reduced rate. A regular membership fee of $10.00 should have resulted in a $40.00 fee per household but many students attempted to circumvent this cost last spring by pur­chasing one membership per household. 
Another question put to me several times was, "How about a price list for your coop?" The correct way to run a coop is to ask the membership what products they desire and then use their collective buying power to make bulk purchases of these goods at reduced rates. The member should understand that in the long run, the coop will save him (her) money. 
We believe that the direct charge coop would be the best coop for the Notre Dame Community, it would sell items at cost and meet its expenses through a weekly service charge. This type of coop would insure the successful operation of the coop and also offer the lowest prices possible for the food. 
The Coop will be resurrected when students, faculty and ad­ministrators get together long enough to organize one. The Coop need not be large; a small coop (sometimes referred to as a "'buying club") can begin operations with as few as fifty families. Arlene Marzowsky has started four such coops and believes the plan feasible for Notre Dame. Unfortunat~, l)ow~ver, nobody knows about Arlene's expertise because •the Ob&erver never mentioned it. Ifyou are interested in having such a coop, please let us know. We think we've learned from our mistakes, and we'd like to try again. .· . ,...... , _. . ' ' · 



fridays blues 
There is probably nothing I care or dare 
to say about the Midwest Blues Festival 
IV that could do it justice. Any attempt to 
evaluate the goings on of Friday and 
Saturday nights' performances is marred 
by: my lack of familiarity with most of the 
performers; my refusal to take coherent 
notes; my total out-of-control condition by 
the mid-point of each evening; and by just 
being buried alive, basking in the beauty 
that is the blues. However, rather than 
leave a gaping white hole in the features 
page ... 
The festival in a word was..fantastic? 
Excellent? Mind and body blowing? (dl 
all of the above. Yes. Entertaining, 
versatile, oh, yea 1 Not only your standard 
12-bar bluesmen, but superstars such as 
Albert King, an old-time boogie-woogie 
piano player, and the last of the great 
black string bands. And all for a paltry 
sum of five dollars. 
Blind John Davis opened Friday's 
festivities. He played boogie-woogie 
piano. sang a little bit, and was surely the 
finest commentator to be found Curing the 
whole affair. He possesses the meanest, 
most low-down, and most engaging laugh 
I've ever heard. 
He performed about ten tunes and 
punctuated each with a devious cackle: 
"I'm gonna tell you a little story, heh, heh, 
yea!" and "wish I could shimmy, ha, ha, 
like my sister Kate." His attitude toward 
potential critics was magnificent: "If you 
like this, tell me; if you don't, forget it, 
huh'?" 
His music was mostly basic piano boogie 
but he also played a bit of the 12-bar blues 
and a few standards such as "Sum­
mertime," which featured alternately 
subdued piano with a few trilled fills. 
Although John played the blues it was 
never a downer, due to the optimistic ring 
of his voice and his piano. In short, he was 
superb. 
Fenton Robinson was next, making a 
successful return engagement from his 
appearance here last year. Stumbling into 
Stepan after intermission, I could not help 
but behold how his guitar riffs rippled 
through the entire auditorium, bathing the 
building in his blues splendor. He stuck to 
the basic blues music, such as "Somebody 
Loan Me a Dime" and one of the many 
variations of "Every Day I Have the 
Blues." Perhaps the most striking thing I 
remember about Fenton was a comment 
made by one of the festival's coordinators, 
trying to name the best performer of the 
night: "Otis Rush was great, but Fenton's 
voice!" 
More. old-time music was provided by 
the Big Walter Horton Band. His show was 
basically Walter wailing away on his harp 
complemented by Big Guitar Ray, m.c. 
and electric six-string extraordinaire. 
Again, standard blues was the motif: 
"Blueberry Hill," "You Know I Love 
You," "Don't Get Around Much 
Anymore." Perhaps the most important 
thing about this band, and this applies to 
Fenton Robinson to some extent, is that 20 
years ago, they were probably playing the 
same songs, same licks, same style. It is 
these men who are the real bearers of the 
blues tradition. 
Otis Rush wrapped up Friday night's festivities. The great guitarist added a lit­tle of the contemporary to the evening. He and his band played with a little more structure and deliberation than the other groups without sacrificing one iota of feeling. Otis, ever the showman,even dabbled in some back-of-the-neck gutar needling without missing a note. Even as the clock moved toward one,the band had people dancing in the wings, as worn as everyone was. He closed his set and the evening with Muddy Water's "Got My Mojo Working" and that he did. 


Tuesday, November 11, 1975 the observer 
Buried Aliue in the Blues 

pat small 




saturdays blues 
Saturday night's show, even following 
the Friday performances, was climac­
tical. 

The evening opened with Martin, Bogan, 
and the Armstrongs, the self-proclaimed 
"last of the great string bands, thank 
goodness," but perhaps the highlight of 
this year's festival. 
The songs were mostly standard folk 
tunes, ideally suited for their bluegrass­
influenced lineup of electric rhythm 
guitar, madelin, fiddle, and upright bass. 
Tunes from their repertoire included "The 
Story of Love," "John Henry," "Sweet 
Georgia Brown," and ''The Girl of My
Dreams." 
The most incredible thing about these aging gentlemen was their ability as in­strumentalists. At one point the band was chugging away when, without warning, the fiddle player leaped to his feet and ripped off some unbelievable violin licks,at­tacking his instrument with such precise dexterity, and bringing the crowd to a spontaneous ovation. 
The only bummer of the evening was the band's exit from stage after only one encore with the audience begging formore. 
Son Seals was a solid band, who brought out the best in blues-based music today. Blessed with a fine sax player and guitarist, the band rocked and shuffled through their set. Basicallyeverything you'd want in a band, and extremely impressive considering they have not been together for a long time. 
Albert King closed the night and the festival. My recollections are fond but few with golden reflections of the fretboard of Lucille, Albert's guitar and the gleam in his eyes, foremost in my mind. AJso vaguely reminiscent was his fine band, replete with a four piece horn section and his rendition of a song that has become synonymous with his name, "Born Under a Bad Sign." 
Crawling out of Stepan Center Saturday evening, it felt like a dream. Even were I able to get a handwriting specialist to sort out my notes,it could not even make a dent in expressing the experience of the Blues Festival. You just had to be there. 
photos by Tom 
Paulius 



J _· •. 

the observer 





oulda 
Two~earScholarship 



orth Up to $10,000 Interest You? 

An Opportunity for 450 Highly Qualified Sophomores 
If you're the kind of person we're looking for, you've already started to think about what you'd like to do after gTaduation. 
If a scholarship leading to a career as an Officer in the U.S. Navy appeals to you, you'll find this message well worth reading. 
Two-Year Full Scholarships 
women. 
For both progTams, you'll need to pass Navy qualification tests. And, quite frankly, it will help if your major is math, physical science, or 
. .
engineering. 

The Curriculum 
After you're accepted, you begin \vith six weeks of training next summer at the Naval Science Institute at Newport, R.I. During your final two years of college, you take several required courses in math, physics, and Naval Science. You also go on a summer cruise prior to your Senior year. (Of course, you're paid for all your summer duty.) 

AChallenging Job 

NAME (Print),_~:-----------:--------­
tirst last 
STREET_________________ CITY_________STAT....________ ZIP______DATE OF BIRTH,________ PHONE(_)_______________ 
[f) COLLEG...._________(t] GRAD. DAT,________ 
[0] ACADEMIC AVERAG~E__[D.] MAJO ~-----­
D I don't want to wait. Call me at the number above. (¢K) 
Tuesday, November 18, 1975 
the observer 7 

Dorm papers give new perspective on hall life 
I 
j 
I 
1 
I 
by Tim Heilmann and George (iedney Staff Reporters 
Many residence halls have begun or continued to produce their own newspapers this semester. These publications attempt to give a serious and sometimes humorous look at what is going on around the dorm. 
Walsh Hall 'sSolicitor bears the motto "We aim to please," and editor Valerie Zurblis feels that it does just that. .Under her direction, the one-page Solicitor comments on hall life and activities as well as women's caucus groups. 
The paper is the first ever published by Walsh Hall, and the staff plans to double its size. It is distributed biweekly to each hall resident. 
The University of Notre Dame has received title to the house and 
"The Solicitor helps to bring the dorm together; it helps you get to know other people in the hall," Zurblis noted. 
"The Keenan Rag rivals any paper on campus according to Greg Youn$, editor. Using a Xerox ollset copymg process, The Rag is the only hall paper that prints photographs. 
The biweekly publication regularly includes the column "From the Rector's Desk," section news and reports from various hall committees. 
Its size ranges from three to five pages. According to Young, it has improved steadily since its beginning two semesters ago. Currently one copy is distributed to each room in Keenan. 
·'The response has been mostly 
favorable," said Young, "but our 
adjoining property formerly owned by Mr. and Mrs. Judd 
:::::::::::::.=:::::::::::::::::::~:=:=:~:=:~:~:~:::::::::~:~:=:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:·:·:·:~=~=~=~=~=~::::::::::::::.:·:·:·:·:· 
Extra Points 
(continued from page 8) 
Sunday afternoon the players voted the bid down, a thing that has not happened since the 1971 Notre Dame football team snuffed a Gator Bowl bid. 
Many of the coaches thought it was bad ediquette on the players' part. The coaching staff felt it would be an honor for Notre Dame to go to the Cotton Bowl. It would also mark a chance for the Irish to redeem them­selves from the Pitt loss. The feeling is that Texas A&M, a team with a wishbone offense, would be a perfect match for Notre Dame, the deacons of stopping such a defense. If Texas A&M does not go to the Cotton Bowl, Texas in all probability will and they run the same type of offense. 
Yet thre were enough players to vote down the bid. Many felt that the season had been a long one and that Notre Dame had nothing to gain bygoing to Dallas. 
In these times when many schools are starving for funds to conduct the essential programs of the world of academia, Notre Dame turned away an estimaiPd $850,000. 
If it is indeed true that the bowl receipts are used for a useful purpose, then it can be inferred the Notre Dame football team made a sad mistake in rejecting the bid. Yet pride and emotion are moving forces. Maybe if the vote was taken today instead of Sunday the outcome would have been different. 
The only thing wrong with Notre Dame going to the Cotton Bowl is that they are not a bowl team. Three losses and two miracle second half comebacks do not bode well for the Irish candidacy. 
For the first time in recent memory, the Irish have failed to dent the lines of the NCAA statistics. Notre Dame's 212 total poikts is the lowest scoring output since 1963. Notre Dame has not had three regular season losses since that time. l<~urther, the three teams the Irish have bowed to have ten losses combined on the season. North Carolina and Air Force, teams Notre Dame barely squeaked by, are in the midst of dismal seasons. 
The Notre Dame players are to be applauded for a decision of courage. It was a difficult choice to make. Whether they regret it or not remains to be seen. 



CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Babysitter.Housekeeper wanted. 8·5 Mon .. Frl. Transporting children to school req. May bring own child. Call 289·8933 after 5. 
Need ride to Youngstown. Ohio or vicinity for Thanksgiving holiday. Jim 8941. 
Need ride to N.Y. (Long Island) or vicinity, share expenses & driving. Can leave 11-25. Call Bill 6827. 
Need riders to Mpls. or Minnesota for Thanksgiving break. Leaving Fri. Nov. 21st. Caii"Ber:n"'' 289­9174. 
Going to Mich.? Need ride to Grayling or along 1-27 for T­Giving Will share driving and ~expenses Call Carl 6863. 
Need ride to Youngstwn area Mon. Nov. 24. Share driving and ex­penses. Jack 3597. 
Need ride to Syracuse, N.Y. area Friday Nov. 21. Call 6804. 
Need  ride  to  D.C.  or  Delaware  
area  Friday  Nov.  21.  Call  Tom  
1380.  

Girl needed for role in independent student production of Neil Simon's "Star·Spangled Girl." For more information, call Jeff 1852 or Lou 2187. 
Flyer fans, need ride to Philly elth· er Fri. night Nov. 21 or Sat. morning, Nov. 22. Call 1474. 
FOR SALE 
Guitar for sale. Excellent con­dition . moving, must sell. $200 or best offer. Call Peg, 287-8733. 
FOR RENT 
For rent: Two female housemates wanted to share 3·bedroom house immediately and.or next semester. 2112 blocks from Angela. N D intersection. Call 289·4303 between 5 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
Rent my upstairs. Near SSO mo. 233·1329. Keep trying. 
NOTICES 
Student Govt. T-Shirt Agency -for top quality plus low prices on T­shirts.· Ideal for clubs or dor­mitories. Phone Dave Bossy, 233­3647. 
Need a tune.up? You buy the parts, I will install plugs, points. con. denser. and. adjustyour timing for $8. Very experienced. Call Bob 8610. 
Morrissey Loan Fund $20-SlSO, 1· day waiting period, 1 percent in­
1 
terest. Due in 30 days. La Fortune 'basement, M-F, 11:15-12:15. 
Book Shop. 30,000 Books and Prints. Ralph A. Casperson Books. 1303 Niles.Buchanan Road. Niles. Hours Wed. Sat. Stun. 9 to 7 or chance. 
Accurate fast typing. Call Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. 
Used Books and Paperbacks. Large stock of general reading material and o.p. books. Bring this ad and receive one free paperback with any Sl.OO purchase. The Bookstack, 112 W. 1 lexington, Elkhart, ln. 46514. 
Will do typing, experienced. Term papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233­8512. 
Will do typing In my home. .c:MI 1616! 699·5704. Ask for Deb. 
A course of action...Air Force ROTC. If you've got two academic years remarnrng in school (graduate or undergraduate) look into our AF ROTC programs. It's one way of planning for a good future. Get all the details today. 
Contact Capt. M.L. Stockdale, 283· 6635. 
Interested In photography? The 
N.D. Photo Club will have its third meeting Tuesday night at 7:15 in Room 205 O'Shag. If you are in· terested, you are welcome to att­end. 
Books make great gifts. New books and box sets ideal for everyone. At Pandora's Books, 937 S. B. Ave. 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: 1 silver ring, shaped like a love knot. Reward. Kelly, 6416. 
Lost: Navy Blue sky jacket. Possibly contains SMC school ring. Really need coat for winter. Call Cathy, 4958. 
Found: Gloves; identify them · when and where. Call Mike 1624. 
Lost: A sliver watch, Timex Electric. day.date. Black band. Reward. Tim, 8164. 
PERSONALS 
Maria Mirto wants to be Ms. Turkey and she needs your votes I 
Hey Bets: Like the Man on the elevator said, "Le's Gol" 


the observer Tuesday, November 18, 1975 
Bear, Big Eight feud over bowl games ••• 
By HERSCHEL NISSENSON still must vote on it. favor of 11th-ranked Penn 
AP Sports Writer -Astro-Bluebonnet Bowl, State, 8-2. All have one game 
State Dec. 27: Colorado vs. Texas left.
The Alabama-Penn Sug­ar Bowl match-up, reported by A&M or Texas. "We have no apologies to 
The Assot:iated Press Sunday -Liberty Bowl, Dec. 22: make to anyone," Bryant said. night, was confirmed Monday Southern California vs. Texas "They are all fine people out with Alabama Coach Bear A&M or Arkansas there <the Big Eight), but it Bryant admitting he hand­-Sun Bowl, Dec. 26: Pitt vs. would take those young guys 15 picked Penn State over the Big Kansas-Missouri winner. or 20 years before they can Eight runner-up and bowl offi­-Tangerine Bowl, Dec. 20, wear their spurs regular. When 
Miami of Ohio vs. opponent to I was a young coach I popped
cials denying it. And without mentioning them 
be selected. off, too. Let them go where by name, Bryant leveled a -Peach Bowl, Dec. 31: North they want to and to hell with Carolina State vs. West Vir­'em.
blast at Nebraska Coach Tom 
Osborne and Oklahoma Coach ginia. "All I can say about the Big Barry Switzer, who had criti­
The bowl lineup was high­Eight is that if they wanted us, cized him for bypassing their 
lighted by a verbal exchange why did they sign with the Or­teams, both ranked above Penn between Bryant and spokesmen ange Bowl? If they wanted us, 
State. from the Big Eight Conference why didn't they invite us to the 
after the veteran coach said he Orange Bowl?"
With the Alabama-Penn State pairing set for New Orleans' 
recommended the Alabama­The Big Eight champion be­new Superdome and West Vir­Penn State pairing. gins a four-year tieup with the ginia accepting a bid to play "I recommended it and I Orange Bowl this season. 
want those young coaches out
North Carolina State in the "When the Orange Bowl 
Peach Bowl, only one berth re­there to know it," Bryant re­asked us who we wanted to 
mained open in the 11 major plied to charges that fifth-rank­play we told\ them we hoped to 
postseason college football post­ed Alabama, 9-1, ducked sec­play the best team available," 
season games. The Tangerine ond-ranked Nebraska, 10-o, and said Big Eight Commissioner sixth-ranked Oklahoma, 9-1. in
Bowl needs an opponent for Charles M. Neinas. 16th-ranked Miami of Ohio. The bowl lineup looks like this: 
...meanwhile, Irish reject bid 
Tony Dorsett's record performance did preclude an Irish invitation to
-Rose Bowl, Jan. 1: Big Ten champion (Ohio State or Mich­the Cotton Bowl. But Notre Dame players rejected the bid in a igan) vs. Pacifie-s champion for Cotton Bowl appearance vote Sunday afternoon. 
<UCLA, California or Stanford). 
-Orange Bowl, Jan. 1: Ne­The Notre Dame football team voted Sunday to turn down a Cottonbraska-Oklahoma winner vs. 
Bowl bid according to school officials.
Ohio State-Michigan loser. 
"We had a Cotton Bowl bid before the Pittsburgh game," said Athletic -Cotton Bowl, Jan. 1: South­Director Edward "Moose" Krause. "If we had won, we would havewest Conference champion gone." The Irish bowed to the Panthers 34-20 Saturday afternoon, their t­
*Observer
<Texas A&M, Texas or Ar­hird loss of the season.
kansas) vs. Georgia. 
In a Sunday afternoon tally, the vote was split exactly even on whether-Sugar Bowl, Dec. 31: Ala­to go or not. The decision was then placed in the hands of the regulars whobama vs. Penn State. 
would be making the trip, and they determined by a vote of 27-26 to turn-Gator Bowl, Dec. 29: Flori­down the invitation.
da vs. Maryland. 
"Our philosophy is that if we have a representative team we will go," -Fiesta Bowl, Dec. 26: West­
Sports
said Krause. "Since we lost the game, we felt we were not representat­ern Athletic Conference cham­ive."
pion <Arizona State or Arizona) Georgia was subsequently offered the Cotton Bowl bid, which theyvs. Nebraska-Oklahoma loser, accepted. They will meet either Texas A&M, Texas or Arkansas on Newalthough the Nebraska. team Year's Day.
Ernie Torriero r=:~=:===========:===:=====:===:=:=:===:===:==:=====:=:=:=:=:=:==========================:===================~= N D basketball team :• •• • .................. 

Extra Pmnts to scrimmage Sunday: BO~K BARN : ===================:=:=:=:=:==========================~":===============================================: No bowl defense 1975 Irish : 15 the :
The Fighting 

For those of us who forgot what it was, it is known as defense. Ac-Bas~etball Team wil~ compete in • BOOK S H Q P • cording to Noah Webster, the word defense means "the act of defensing, an mtra-squad scnmmage for • • upholding or maintaining; anything that opposes attack." For the Irish charity on Sunday • November 23 at • for •
7 30

Saturday, defense was nothing more than a word in Webster's : p.m. in the Athletic and • •
Convocation Center. e e vocabulary. The admission to the charity • 'BOOK LOVERS Turn North 2 blocks east of thee 
Wherever the Notre Dame defense was, it certainly was not in Pitt-game will be 50 cents, and the • _ . light at Cleveland and Juniper • 
sburgh Saturday. The Record shows Tony Dorsett put on a one-man proceeds will go to the Neigh-• era and new books (Emmons Rd.) Phone 272-5520 • 
performance, the likes of which people thought could never happen borhood Stud.Y Help Tu~oring • o;n Mon-Fri untll D:OO Sundays noon untll 6:00 • 
against the pride of the Irish. Dorsett rumbled for 303 yards and that's Program. This progr~m .Is the ~ ~ ·• • •• • ...... !.• •!..• • • • .-. • • • •!• • • • • ~ 
almost as many yards as Georgia Tech and Navy gained in two games largest volunte~r service m the ~ ·-·-..
··111M·······~ 
versus the Irish. Notre Dame-Samt Mary's com-.-_ D·'S ' t 
It is totally inconceivable that a team which was shutout by Navy on the munity. The program offers t-•. ~~ J1 11'./ • same field three weeks earlier, can rack up 34 points against the likes of utorial help to elementary school 6;.\.• ·~ Niehaus, Browner, etc. The bookends, Fry and Browner, managed an stud~nts in the South Bend Com-• ~ '0 • 
anemic total of nine tackles the entire afternoon. Dorsett continually got mumty · • 
MOVIE TICKETS
outside. The game will give everyone a • 
The fact that Dorsett swept the sidelines with ballet-like ease is preview of the 1975-76 Fighting • • 
especially disturbing. All season long, Pitt coach Johnny Majors had been Irish, offer a chance to make a 
criticized for running Dorsett up the middle. In the opinion of the humble meaningful contribution to a • STUDENT UNION • 
Pitt writers, Majors should have run more plays to the outside. There was worthwhile charity,and also give t-• • 
no doubt the Irish could contain Dorsett up the middle, and with Niehaus he Notre Dame and Saint Mary's TlCKET 0 fflCE 
and Weston in the middle there was no cause for debate. When Dorsett students, as well as all Irish fans, a • •
chance to demonstrate their 

flowed to the outside, the Notre Dame pursuit was always there. The only su t f th' ' b k tb n t SCOTTSDALE STATE & • 
;if:~~~~~~~r~nf.f;~E~i~.e=:~~:~ ff~ie;· e;~;~~g~ •• ~ 
beo~~~n:~ryears, Notre Dame has been the hallmark of great defense. being sponsored 11 INDIAN JEWELRY ~.t.i! 
Yet in less than one year, the Irish have suffered two of the worst em-.§ .•.•. 
harassments Our Lady has seen in the186 seasons of gridiron competition. Since a large number of Notre :x :::: 
People are still trying to figure our how Southern Cal scored eight con-Dame-Saint Mary's students are ::~z.~:::· •B:racelets *Earrt·ngs ::·:::~_·=·.=_:r_::.=.
secutive times last year. This year, Pitt was Notre Dame's Alamo. leaving the <;am pus for the ~ ~ 1 
Notre Dame has had a bad habit of making great running backs look Thanksgiving vacation, the Neigh-
sensational. Examplis unicus: one does not have to dig deep into the borhood Study Help Tutoring ~;~ ;~; 
record books to bring back the painful memory of the Johnny Rodgers Program, with the support of head ;.:.~:=:. •RingS * Ch01'efS 
show in the 1973 Orange Bowl. Leroy Keyes, Anthony Davis, Ricky Bell coach Digger Phelps and ticket ;; ..l\! and Dorsett twice all have bathed in the billboard success that comes manager Michael Busick, will :.~:. 
· N t D Th th · ht beh' d sponsor a ticket exchange for the ~ 
from beatmg o re arne. ere are o ers ng m . h N b ·.::.!..:~. 
The Pitt game was more than just a loss. As in previous games against orne opener • ovem er 29th, .~.
against Kent State. .. 

•Necklaces
North Carolina, Air Force, Southern Cal and Michigan State, Notre Dame The tickets will be distributed to :~~ 
failed to make the proper second-half adjustments necessary to halt the students from the schools and ~::~.: 
opponents' onslaught. The same team that happy shut-off the leading  centers in the South  Bend Com­ •.  
rushing team in the nation a week earlier <Georgia Tech) could not ef­ munity involved in the volunteer  ~!  
fectively cool off the flaming Dorsett. The incongruity appears per- tutoring effort, as well as others  ~~  
plexing.  invited  in  Notre  Dame-Saint  ::c;  

Anyway you look at it, November 15, 1976 belongs on the same black Mary's volunteer services. ;;:; page in the record book along with November 30, 1974, January 1, 1973 and If you would like to donate your ~i At Wholesale PricesDecember 2, 1972. For November 15 will always be remembered as the ticket, you can do so when you pick ~~ day a diminutive 5-9, 180 pound running back defeated Notre Dame, a up your season ticket Wednesday-¢!•' team with one foot in the land of cotton. Thursday-or Friday, from 9:00-"· 
By Appointment
4:00 (including the noon hour) at t­

Contrary to what most believed, Notre Dame was not out of the Cotton he ACC. A tablefor the ticket Bowl picture after Sattirday's loss. Indeed, Field Scoval and his exchange will be set up outside te representatives from the Eli Whitney Classic saw fit to invite the Irish. box office at the second floor of the 
234-8613 
~continu~d on page 1) ACC. 





