
WASHINGTON <AP) name to enter mto your con--At the Pentagon, White House President l<'ord named a team of ideration for the upcoming vice­chief of staff Donald Rumsfeld for "my guys" Monday night to presidential . . nominee," Secretary of Defense James R. manage national security affairs, Ho~kefeller sa1d m a letter Schlesinger. and said he has a promise of 1976 delivered personally to Ford. -At the CIA, George Bush, now campaign support from Nelson A. Overall, Ford pronounced U.S. emissary to Peking, to suc­Hockefeller, the vice president himself happy and optimistic ceed William E. Colby. who won't be running with him about the outlook for the ad--At the National Security next year. ministration, for U.S. foreign Council, Lt. Gen. Brent Scowcroft 
Vice-President Nelson A. policy and national security, for to take over the directorship that Hoekefeller said Monday he does the campaign, and for his election has been held by Secretary of State not wish run on President E<'ord's t-to a full term in the White House. Henry A. Kissinger. Ford said 1cket next year. In a nationally broadcast and Kissinger "will have the dominant 
"After much thought, I have televised White House news role in the formulation of and the 
decided ...that l conference, Ford said repeatedly carrying out of foreign policy" that his shakeup at the top of the despite relinquishing the dual job. Pentagon, the Central Intelligence -At Commerce, Richardson, the Agency and the National Security former attorney general, to Council was designed to install his t·eplace Secretary Rogers C.B. own people, "the individuals that I Morton. Ford said Morton had told want to work with very, very in­him he wanted to resign to return timately," and not to satisfy to private life after the first of the anybody else. year. 
On a day of overhaul for the -To succeed Rumsfeld, his administration. Ford announced current White House deputy, that Elliot L. Richardson, now U.S. Richard Cheney. ambassador to Great Britain, will "These are my guys and the ones become his secretary of Com-that I wanted and I hope and trust President Ford yesterday officially confirmed reports of a re-shuttltng m merce. that their confirmation will be his administration. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
quick in the U.S. Senate," Ford possible vice-presidential choice bankruptcy in New York City. ('hanges Listed said. for 1976 now that Rockefeller has Ford said he didn't pressure He said he does not know when stepped aside. The vice-president Hockefeller to withdraw, but didn't 
These were the lineup changes: he will name successors to the did so in a letter to Ford made try to talk him out of it, either. The diplomatic posts now held by Bush public earlier in the day, and he did President said it was Rockefeller's and Richardson. so without explanation. decision, and "I accepted it." 
Pentagon sources said But Ford insisted that the letter He said Rockefeller has done a
Wealthy nations urged 
Schlesinger was offered the speaks for itself, and would not superb job and will continue to do London am bassaaorship, and discuss Rockefeller's reaons, so in the months ahead. "Vice declined. except to say that the vice-President Rockefeller has assured 
to share business assets 
president's move was not promp-me categorically that he will
VP Choices Not Discussed 
ted by their differences over support me in 1976," Ford said. 
by Jill Truitt 
Nor would he speculate on a federal guarantees to stave off (continued on page 3)Staff Reporter 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University president and Rev. Robert 
Lavv School professors Rice, 
Marshall, president of the Lutheran Church in American, last night urged affluent nations to share their industrial advantages with un­derdeveloped nations. 
The addresses at a dinner at the Morris Inn highlighted the con­
Wise debate busing issue 
ft'r<•nce on Technology Transfer in the Furtherance of Distributive 
by Cathy Cannon
.Justice. The speakers addressed 55 developmental officials of the 
Staff Hporter
llnited Nations and foreign nations, as well as I industrial t'XN'Utives and educators from this country. 
Charles Rice, professor in the
llesburgh stated that multi-national corporations are the in­
Notre Dame Law School, sharply
struments of change in underdeveloped nations. "The multi-nationals 
attacked the practice of busing
are wdl maintained and directed. Tl1ey have the capital, market, 
students, and Michael Wise, also a
rnanagt•mt•nt and full capability of doing it," Hesburgh said. 
Law School professor, upheld
World organizations such as the United Nations, World Bank and the 
busing as a means to end
ln1Prnational Atomic E<~nergy Agency are also sources of aid for un­
segregation, last night in the
dl'rdevl'loped nations. he said. 
Library Auditorium.
"ThPre is a need for a new kind of global compact that speaks to 
The two spoke to an audience of
justiet•," llt•sburgh added. 
approximately 50 people at a
lit• l'ompared world problems with space technology. "I see the 
hearing held by the 1976 Mock N­
wot"ld in the way astronauts see it as they come around the world. The 
ational Convention Executive
world is a spacecraft with limited resources," Hesburgh said. 
Committee. The meeting was the first of a('hristian role t'Xamint>d 
series to measure the opinion of the student body on issues facing the
Marshall said the economy's complexity renders inadequate the National Party.
simple Church responses to the needs of underdeveloped nations. 
Rice criticized busing policy,
Ill' stressed the need for social action. "An increase in action and 
saying, "The problem with busing
public demonstration will come if the frustration level gets high 
is whether we are going to accept · Pnough," Marshall added. 
the concept of color consciousness 'Law Professor Charles Rice responded last night to colleague MichaelE<:ven in its economic complexity, life occurs in just one world under or color blindness." Wise's pro-busing arguments. (Photo by Paul Clevenger)God, Marshall said. "Humanity is one family under God. Coherence Busing is a matter of attend neighborhood schools had where the·student picks the schoolthen is its purpose," he added. 
classifying people by race and their claims rejected. he wishes to attend. This system"A proper goal is to have the needed goods provided to all. These making them do a certain thing He quoted a decision in one such would facilitate the primarygoals shall be distributed so all people share," Marshall stated. 
because of that race, he said. "A case, "Children cannot cluster responsibility of the parent andMarshall stated that self-help community projects will lead to long­good end does not jusify the means. around their schools like they can would get away from racism.
range solutions. "The project in Ethiopia involved 25,000 farmer Hace discrimination is wrong and their parish church." explained Rice.
cooperatives becoming self-determinant," he said. 
a benevolent motive does not make Hice disagreed saying the neigh-Busing can be abolished withoutThis project last year improved irrigation and produced a surplus of it right," he stated. borhood school is a legitimate a constitutional amendment,food, Marshall added. 
~ise ~isagrees. "Wh_ile. colo_r concept. He said the school is a uccording to Rice. bhn_dess IS an exc_el~ent ~rmc1ple, 1t base of the neighborhood. "Article :l, section 2 of the('onsumt>r a<'tion nt>t>ded 
demes w.ho gets tt m th1s country. He criticized busing as causing Constitution gives Congress the "The Supreme Court tr.ied for 10 heighteP.ed racial consciousness power to take away the jurisdiction 
Marshall stressed that legitimate or disruptive demonstrations are 
years after the Brown vs. Hoard or which results in more tensions. of the court in certain areas," hedifficult for the Church to handle. The consumer must take the social Education decision to get the local Wise is currently serving as the noted. "The court should retainaetion, he added, by challenging corporations to play fair in dealings school board to implement school assistant director of the Center for jurisdiction in the area of thewith underdeveloped countries. 
deseg_regation, but it didn't work," Civil Rights. He was formerly an compulsory segregation since
"Pt•rsonal integrity is strengthened by the awareness of a tran­
he sa1d. Attorney-Advisor for the U.S. dearly that is a violation of thescendent Uod and refined by an awareness of social integrity," he 
He added, "It is impossible to Commission on Civil Rights. Fourtheenth Amendment," heconcluded. 
eliminate situations where blacks Wise is editing Beyond Civil pointed out.
Dr. Marshall headed a delegation of 20 U.S. representatives to the and whites have been separated Hights: The Hight to Economic Wise urged the committee not toSoviet Union last fall and was chairman of a reception by the National 
by simply taking away the law." St><'Urity. reject the remedies designed byCouncil of Churches earlier this year for 19 Russian church leaders Wise focused specifically on the Rice is an author of four books on the court to end segregation.
visitng the U.S. 
situation in Boston by criticizing constitutional law and is He said busing is needed to endHe is presently preparing for the World Council of Churches meeting neighborhood schools. recognized as the leading authority the remnants of slavery left in thein Nairobi, Kenya next year. He is one of the two Protestant church 
He said, "There is no such thing on the subject. country.
leaders serving as vice-chairmen of the committee planning the 41st as a right to attend neighborhood He is a graduate of Holy Cross "Reject the politics of racismHoman Catholic Eucharistic Congress in 1976. 
schools. In racial contexts it is College, Boston College and New and the leadership of certainDr. Donald L. Guertin, senior planning advisor of Exxon Corp.; Dr. 
ironic that 100 years ago blacks York University. political leaders who are exploiting
(continued on page 5) 
trying to assert their rights to Rice said the ideal system is one racial issues," he stated. 



Tuesday,November 4, 1975·
the observer 
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON <APl -In a case which could affect the price motorists pay for gasoline, the Supreme Court agreed Monday to review President Ford's power to curb oil imports by imposing license fees. 
The court said it will hear arguments in the spring on the government's appeal of a decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington that the license feels are illegal. 
BERIUT, Lebanon <APl -Premier Rashid Karami promised his battle-weary countrymen thast Beirut's street war was over Monday, but sniper fire marred his fragile cease-fire. 
Police sources reported eight persons killed by the shining bullets. 
an campus taday 
8:30am--conference, technology transfer, "type of technology and its influence on the host country", by h.e. robinson, cce. 
12 pm--lecture, "a speculative interpretation of coloridge on imagination," by gene bernstien, rm 361, o'shag. 12 pm--mini-course, "data management option in spas", rm 509, library. 
1:45 pm--conference, technology transfer, "transfer of agricultural technology," by dr. j. benton rhoades, cce. 4:30pm--seminar, "biological status of the st. joseph river 
drainage", by dr. clarence dineen, galvin aud. 7:30pm--meeting, charismatic prayer, Iafortune rathskeller. 
7:30 pm--conference, technology transfer, address by rev. 
laurence murphy, cce. 7:30pm-­
lecture, "on the declining credibility of economics and economists", by john e. peck, carroll hall. 8 & 10 pm--film, "the servent," eng. aud., $1. 8 pm-­
film and talk, "assertiveness and training", bulla shed. 
8:15pm--. 
concert, philidor trio in bach, handel and purcell, lib. aud., $1. 
Students teach retarded: use Logan Center gym 
The St. Mary's basketball team which practices in various places in South Bend, has secured the use of the Logan Center gymnasium for one night a week. 
In the form of payment, the team has agreed to spend about 1 112 hours a week teaching the center's residents. retarded children, the fundamentals of basketball. 
Athletic Director Stevie Wernig explained the trade'.' WE NEEDED A GYM. They didn't want to charge us, so we came up with this solution." she said. 
All of us really thought it was a great idea--we'd much rather help some kids than just pay the center for the use of the gym," Wernig added. 
Logan Center Director Bill Locke commented, "It's a challenge for the girls and it's a great help to us. It gives us the opportunity to give more in­dividual attention to the children." 
He continued, "And to have someone actually involved in the sport teaching adds beauty to the children's appreciation for the sport. I think this helps the volunteers to build some con­fidence, too." 
St. Mary's lost their gymnasium earlier this y.ear when Angela Hall, built in 1892 to house com­mencement exercises, was knocked down. 
The college is presently raising 
Sexuality series to meet tonight in Lewis Hall 
Prof. Sheridan P. McCabe, 
director of the Counseling Center, 
and Mary Clare McCabe, assistant 
dean of students, will discuss 
psychological issues surrounding 
human sexuality tonight at 7 p.m., 
in the basement of Lewis Hall. 
All students are invited to attend 
and participate in this fourth 
presentation of the Human 
Sexuality series. 
The session will last until ap­
proximately 8:30p.m. 
Motel filled 
Farley Motel Manager Sue Swiatek announced yesterday that, the motel is filled for this coming weekend and no more reservations will be taken. 
For reservations for other weekends and for weekdays, call Swiatek at 7130. 
money to build a sports and "The grandmother refuses to The Collegiate Choir includes 60 Subscr.ptions may be purchased recreation facility. learn English," Jenkins said. "She male and female voices. The choir tor 10 dollars per semester t ,8 In the meantime, however, most usually sits in her room or sits in on has toured Europe twice and last dollars per year I trom The Ob varsity and intramural teams are the lesson but won't participate." year made a tour of the server, Box Q. Notre Dame, In 
46556
forced to play in the Regina Hall "It's frustrating, but you feel so southeastern United States. diana. · Second Class postage
paid. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Student L_o_u_ng_e_.________________g_o_o_d_,'_'_sa_i_d__Je_n_k_i_n_s.__'_'L_a_s_t_w_e_e_k_____T_h_e_~_~_o_m_e_n_'s_·_c_H_o_ru_s__is_a__~_r_o_up-~~~~~~::::::::::::::~ 
"WhenIwenttoAT&f~ 
ItookAnnyROICwithme~~ 
By the time Gerald Lucas got his might not have got otherwise. college degree, he had two good jobs waiting Of course, AT&T had to wait a bit to for him. Ajob at AT&T. And, since he was get Jerry. But what they got for the wait 
graduating with a commission through Army was a seasoned manager, who is now a Super­vising Engineer with his eye on the next 
ROTC, a job as an Army officer. 
He took them both. One at a time, of step up. course. First he took his tour in the Army, Was the wait worth it to Jerry? "Well, then he took the skills he acquired there to to be honest;' he says, "it had its pluses 
AT&T. and minuses. But the pluses won. And if I had 
Because, through Army ROTC, Jerry it to do over again, I'd do it the same way:' got some very practical experience in leading Army ROTC. Learn what it people and managing enterprises which he takes to lead. 
@) 
AnnyROfC 
Notre Dame. IN 
Tell me more about 46556 Army ROTC. 
Ms. 
Mr. --------------------1 
City ________ County ----------1 State__~--Zip__Phone ________! 
College Attending_.___________ 
Graduation !Jdte ______________________ 
Teach English 
Students tutor refugees 
by Marti Hogan when we left, they told us "Thank Catholic churches in the area. Staff Reporter you for coming." "These churches pay the rent "They really appreciate it," and supply money and tran­
St. Mary's Campus Ministry and she noted. sportation for the families'" said the South Bend Catholic Social Tempel commented, "It's a Jenkins. Services are directing a tutoring great personal experience." The Catholic Social Services, program for 25 Vietnamese She also emphasized, "The which is in charge of placing families who have lived in the family really appreciates you." families, also locates jobs for the South Bend area since August. The families are sponsored by families. 
St. Mary's student volunteers were assigned to a specific family 
Opening night nearing
to tutor once a week. Some of the adults take English classes at the South Bend campus 
for SMC choral groups
of Indiana University. The tutors help them "to pronounce words The Collegiate Choir and the of 40 women from Saint Mary's. and understand them at the same Women's Chorus of St. Mary's Both groups perform several time," said Annette Jenkins, a St. College will give their first public concerts annually at civic and Mary's tutor. performance of the 1975-76 social functions throughout In­
The tutors also help the children, academic year Thurs., Nov. 6, at 8 diana. who are enrolled in area Catholic pm in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The Fall Choral Concert is open schools, with their homework. The annual Fall Choral Concert to the public free of charge. 
"The kids are doing suprisingly will consist of music from the 18th well for being thrown into a new to the 20th centuries and will in­the observer school where they have to learn a elude a variety of choral music, new language," said Linda ranging from a Bach Motet to Night Editor: Bob Brink Tempel, another St. Mary's tutor. Negro spirituals. Asst. Night Editor: Maureen 
Some of the families have a The singers will perform works Flynn broader background in the by Henry Lau, Orlando di Lasso, Layout Staff: Ken Bradford, AI language than others. J .S. Bach. Mechoir Franck, Felix Rutherford 
"Only one member of the family Mendelssohn, Aaron Copland, and Day Editor: Don Reimer I tutor speaks any English," said Leonard Bernstein. Copy Reader: Kathy Mills Jenkins, "and he has to translate Rick Sibley, instructor in music, Editorials: Val Zurblis to the rest of the family." will conduct both choral groups. Sports: Bill Brink, Ernie Torriero 
However, Tempel said, "The He earned his Master of Science Typists: Mary Tobin, Cmille mother and father of the family I degree in music education from Arrieh, Howard Halle tutor speak pretty good English." the University of Illinois in 1972. Compugraphic: Chip Spina 
"The kids haven't answered in a Before joining the Saint Mary's Night Controller; Dave Rust complete sentence yet, but some of College faculty this fall, he taught them have only been speaking for three years in the Illinois public 
English for three months," she school system. The Observer is published Monday added. He is a member of Phi Delta through Friday and weekly during
the summer session, except during
A few members of the family Kappa, Music Educator's National exams and vacation periOds The however, are unwilling to learn the Conference, and the American Observer •s published by the language. Choral Directors' Association. students of the Univ ot Notre 
D'ame and St Mary's College 
Tuesday,November 4, 1975 the observer 
----------·----------------~ 
Municipal elections today 
Nemeth favored in South Bend mayor race 
by Kathy Mills St•nior Starr Ht-porter 
Heavily-favored Democrat Peter .J. Nemeth will face John Paul Slafkosky, a Republican, and 
Independent  Ronald  R.  
Kronewitter  in  the  South  Bend  
mayoral elections today.  

Nine Common Council positions and the office of city clerk are also included in the municipal election. 
. Slafkosky is seeking his first l'lec,~·a office in South Bend. 
Nemeth has been a city coun­cilman since 1971. He defeated Mayor Jerry J. Miller in the April Dt•moeratic mayoral primary. 
Kronewitter ran unsuccessfully in the Dt>mocratic primary. 
lssut• is crime 
The primary issue in the l'ampaign has been crime. Slafkosky has proposed the l'reation of neighborhood citizen patrols to rPduce crime. 
Both Nt•meth and Kronewitter havt• favored expansion and improvt•mt>nt of the police force to rPducP the crime rate. Nemeth has attacked Slafkosky 's proposal of l'itizt•n patrols as a "political gimmick." and vigilantism. 
All three candidates have agreed that improvement of the downtown area is necessary. They have said the attraction of new businesses to tlw an•a will help upgrade the area. Nemeth has also proposed fn•t• parking downtown. 
Nt>meth refused to attend any forums with his opponents in the final days of the campaign. He daimt•d he had already attained rPcognition with the public and that ht• is not required to give publicity to his opponents. 
NPmPth. a graduate of Columbia Law School. served as Deputy 
h,y Lonnit-Luna Starr Ht-porter 
Savings, high quality food and a n•sellabh.' membership fee for students are the main advantages of the formation of a food co-op, said Tom Fitzgerald, student body vice-president. 
l<'itzgerald made these remar.ks at a meeting last night in Washington Hall to an audience of ten people. The meeting was held to t•xplain the food co-op to potential members and to sign up members. ! 
Approximately seven households joined the co-op at the meeting. Byrne attributed the low response to lack of knowledge on the part of off-campus students about the meeting. 
Arlene Margowsky, who is helping to organize the co-op, also spoke at the meeting. 
There are two types of co-ops: a closed co-op where the members buy on order, a 'buying club'; the other is an open co-op which resembles a store," she explained. 
There will be a $25 membership fee plus a $2 per week service charge if the co-op is an open one. 
If the co-op does not get a large number of members, it will follow the closed type. The membership fee will still be $25 but the service charge will be included with the price of the food. 
The service charge covers operational and overhead costs. 
''The good thing about the 
membership fee is that it is a 
temporary investment for students 
because it is resellable from one 
student to another," explained 
l<'itzgerald. 
Margowsky organized an open 
co-op in Chicago which worked 
because "it eliminated the in­
ventory, which isn't good to have in 
a co-op." 
Members were able to save as 
much as 40 per cent on cheeses 
plus additional savings on other Prosecuting Attorney for St. Joseph County for four years. 
He is a former member of the South Bend Common Council and Committee on Economic develooment. 
Slafkosky' . served as city Hepubhcan chairman and as a precinct committeeman for the past three years. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1963.1le is eurrently a salesman. 
Kronewitter is an art teacher at Clay Middle School. He graduated from Indiana University and spent four years in the Air Force. 
Othl'r ract-s 
Irene Gammon, a Democrat, will run against Republican Terese Hinkle in the contest for city clerk. 
In the contest for councilman from the first district, incumbent Joseph T. Serge will go against Republican W. Charles Brinley a11d American party candidate Hugh Aughinbaugh. 
In the second district, Leonora Davis, a Republican, will face the incumbent Walter M. Szymkowiak, a Democrat. 
Democrat Dorothy Scheer will run against incumbent Republican Terry S. Miller in the third district. 
Roger 0. Parent, the incumbent Democrat, will face Republican !<'rank Nemeth, Jr., and Mary Jan Brayfield, the American Party candidate, in the fourth district. This is the district in which many Notre Dame students live. 
In the contest for fifth district councilman, John L. Bilancio, a 
Democrat,  will  go  against  in­ 
cumbent  Republ ican  Robert  G.  
Taylor.  

Incumbent Walter T. Kopc­zynski. the Democratic candidate. 
Ford declines to speculate about possible running mate in 1976 
(continued from page 1) 
Ford declined to discuss vice­
presidential choices in general, 
and to say in particular whether he 
might choose former California 
Gov. Honald Reagan or John B. 
Connally, the former Texas 
governor and secretary of the 
tn•asury, for his 1976 ticket. 
While he was shunning speculation about a vice-presidential choice next year, Ford did say that the new jobs given Bush and Humsfeld didn't l'liminate them as prospects. They rank high on the quickly assembled, and purely speculative, list of politician's propspects. Richardson does, too. 
Ford said he isn't worried about a challenge from Reagan, who is 
Meeting poorly attended 
pOised to announce his rival 
Food co-op benefits explained~~~~~~~~~ 

foodstuffs, she added. you want to stop impulse buying; 
There are many distributors who it's time when you want to save are anxiously willing to do money," said Margowsky. business with co-ops, Margowsky For those who were unable to 
noted. attend the meeting last night, 
"It's time to form a co-op when membership sign-ups will be in the super markets sell low quality main lobby of LaFortune today food; it's time when the prices are and tomorrow between 11 a.m. and rising every day; it's time when 3 p.m. 
WINTER SPECIALS DISC 0 DRUM 

$599
RELINE Premi:~~~~~Eb~:ke 

linings ( 4 wheels), turn drums, rebuild wheel cylinders. arc lining for 
. perfect drum contact, full I inspection. American car~ only. 
~j Complete Guarantee 
lrN='ii:i:o;N:i;i::=:=:i'ii'iii=:=:=:s:i:'ivic'E·:=:IN:c=ll 
~;~; Industrial & automotive drum and disc specialists ;~;~ 
~~Bnlce .•..
~=::B~,•,• 23134 Lincolnwoy West ~ 
\\\\ ._.. SeM:e Phone 232-8221 I 
0
I 
o . • : 1 block west of 01rport entrance, South Bend i!!! 
~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::~:;;:::::::::::::;;::::J;; 
CALL NOW FOR 
FREE INSPECTION 

presidential candidacy in little , more than two weeks. 
"I'm not worried about any competitor, Democrat • or Rt>publican," the President said. "I'm happy and I'm optimistic about the nomination and the election because I am convinced the American people feel that we've been effective in foreign policy ... I'm convinced we're on the road to a good economic situation in 1976. So when you combine peace and prosperity any in­l'Umhent president ought to be very happy." 
The President said he was happy and he seemed so as he answered 44 questions, most of them on 
(continued on page 5) 
will face the Republican Michael 
R. Wells in the fifth district race. 
For councilman-at-large, Democrats Mary Christine Adams, Richard C. Dombrowski and Frank Horvath will run against H. Chris Overgaard, James R. Rice and Frank Slaby, .Jr., the Republican candidates, 
and American Party candidate Leonard Copeland. The polls will be open today from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Voters who do not know their polling place may find out by calling the South Bend TribUJl(' at 233-6161 until 6 p.m., or the county clerk's office at 284-9635. 
SIR RICHARD'S 
NO
SMC women -HAIR STYLING-men 
129 DIXIEWAY SOUTH 
(U.S. 31 NORTH) SUITE B 
(Across from Randall's Inn) 
Closed 
Mondays RICH CODDENS UNISEX 277-0734 
BOOK BARN 
is the 
BOOK SHOP 
for 
BOOK LOVERS 

Turn North 2 blocks east of th 
light at Cleveland and Jun 
(Emmons Rd.) Phone 272-5520 
Sundays noon untll 
Pitcher Beer Night WITH· 
BRUCE CARR 
The White House Inn 
SHARE THE RIDE WITH US THIS THANKSGIVING AND GET ON TO AGOOD THING. 
Us means Greyhound, and a ldt of students who are already on to a good thing. Y.ou·leave when you like. Travel comfortably. Arrive rE;Jfreshed and on time. You'll save money, too. But you already know that. So share the ride with us on weekends. Holidays. Anytime. Go Greyhound. 
Greyhound announces TheAll-American Ameri~* 

You're due for a big holiday break. and you've got 1t. 7 days unlimited travel in America and Canada, for $76! Now you can go home for the holidays and enjoy a great travel adven­ture too. before or after. The All-American Ameripass gives you special discounts on hotels. meals. sightseeing. Only Greyhound serves 48 states. Ask about it now. *Good thru December 15. 1975. 
Greyhound Bus Terminal 210 W. Monroe St. 287-6541 
Greyhound. 
More than ever, we're in touch with America. 

~-----~---~----~ 
·-~~-----~------~----~----------------~-------~­
opinion!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~
The Observer 
Springboard
on independent student newspaper 
Foundt'd Novl'1TIIH-r 3, 1%6 
Terry Keeney Edotor-on-choel Tom Modglin Busoness Manager Tom Whelan Advertosong Manager 
for Discussion 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
•\I 1-iullwrlord MannQtnQ Editor. Jim Eder. Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor, 
k•·n G•ro,.ard. Nows Ed•tor; Bob Mader. Campus Editor. Mary Janca, St Mary's Editor; KPn llrndlord. Copy Editor. Bill Brink, Sports Eoitor; Tom O'Nf'tl, FPatures Editor. 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ janet robert 
Chris Smith, Pilot l Ed•tor 
Nrwo 2~1 1711 8u\mru 28J 1471 
That the Collegiate Seminar has been a great disappointment to
------------------11 
many teachers and students was well articulated in Bob Mader's
Tuesday,November 4, 1975 
commentary in the October 21 issue of the Observer. But the General Program of Liberal Studies centers its education around the seminar which is considered the most popular and effective means of education. GP students take one seminar every semester for six semesters, and ths first two seminars have similar book lists as the Collegiate Seminar. The difference is in the common un­derstanding between teachers and students of the purpose and 
organizationof a seminar. 
The purpose of the seminar is to provide the students with an opportunity to read and discuss the Great Books. Reading expands one's knowledge. Speaking sharpens this knowledge by challenging the reader to explicate and defend his views. Plato, Aristotle, Homer -not Uncle Wiggly -and all the classic writers offer an alternative and deeper understanding of our beliefs. They provide a springboard for discussion. ·· 
But a seminar will not work even if the students read all the authors and understand their views. Students must reflect on their reaction to the author's views and be willing to share their ob­servations and values. Even if one may fear criticism because the class appears either too ignorant or too intelligent, one must participate. The sharing of incomplete ideas is the beginning of communication and education. The student must also be willing to listen, which furthers the process. But most important, someone must respond and this completes the first of many endless cycles of communication. This exchange of ideas is probably the most dif­ficult and yet the most basic means of education. 
The teacher must be aware that more is demanded of him than taking attendance and lecturing when the discussion lags. A seminar requires more talent of the teacher than any other form of teaching. He must ask key questions to elicit ths main themes of the reading that are of universal value. He must keep the discussion from wandering from the topic. He must direct the class to consider the problem in depth and to avoid the trivial topics of mealtime chatter. This kind of skill demands a thorough understanding of the book. But such skill will come only with time. And the teacher must
abortion'l medical judgements as to the The point I make is that the discontinuance of morally ex­
Broadened 
take the time and have the patience to read and re-read the basic, notion of the aggressive man­few Great Books. Admittedly, these books are few; fortunately, the 
traordinary measures in a 
passive woman is invalid in many great problems are few. The idea that only a history professor can
hopeless case where the patient
Views 
cases. and one must realize the understand Herodotus, a philosophy professor Aristotle, or an
herself is incapable of giving
l>t•at· Erlitor: sexual inclinations of the human English professor, Shakespeare, is too narrow .Any educated person 
consent. In Thursday's Observer, ~Joe organism are not unilaterally male -and we hope our Ph.D.'s are educated -should be able to read
Cosmic issues such as the consti­
Corpora wrote an article entitled in origin. One's sexuality is not beyond their narrow bounds.And if they cannot, they cannot even
tutional right to die, freedom of
''Abortion and Women's Lib", to diminished by choosing one of understand what is within their narrow bounds.
religion, etc., are not necessary to
which 1 would like to respond. In several methods to protect one's If the University of Notre Dame sincerely believes the Collegiate 
the decision of the case. The
view ofthe recent publicity given to partner I male or female) if that is Seminar is of value in its purpose, it must make the seminars ef­
danger is that the case will be 
many students' injudicious the decision both have agreed fective. The General Program Seminar has been in existence for 
decided at the trial or appellate
statements about Corpora's upon. over twenty-five years, it has inspired the establishment of the
level on broad grounds, involving
philosophy, 1 feel I must preface My position on abortion is still as Collegiate Seminar, and it remains very effective. If the University 
the "right to die". Any broadly
my letter. What I would like to do unresolved as ever. But I feel it is does care about the intellectual value of reading great books, it could
written opinion in the case would
is comment on what was said, not incorrect to think that men are institute a seminar for teaching seminars, and the teachers in turn
be certain to be seized upon by
on who said it. In any discussion, proposing legalizing abortion in could pass on to the students this understanding. Nor would the
those who favor the legalization of 
much more progress towards the order to facilitate their sexual University allow as many as twenty-five students in one seminar. It
active euthanasia or who favor
solution of a problem is made if the excapades and promote their is difficult enough for fifteen students to each have an opportunityparticipants of the discussion t•motional immaturity. Nor do I passive euthanasia thru the with­to express themselves in the General Program Seminar.
attempt to limit their attention to feel it is valid to presume that men holding of ·ordinary as opposed 
In addition, neither the one-credit value seminar nor thethe various aspects of the problem, are freeing themselves of to extraordinary means. They Collegiate Seminar should be expected to provide a completenot to the personalities of the in-responsibility for their partners by would be aided by the media which 
dividuals involved. allowing the woment to practice have presented a distorted and system of "values". Such is the wisdom that can be placed in a 
nutshell -where it belongs. The course of studies, over the fourTherefore, I would suggest that contraception. Tim Johnson sensationalized picture of the case. 
years, should provide values. Nevertheless, the Collegiate Seminar 
the various aspects of the abortion-T~e best thing that could happen at
E d,
M 
should play an integral part in this formulation of values. 
women's lib issue pointed out in th1s stage would be for the judge to 
xtraor lnaru 
Corpora's article could be :1 decide against the Quinlans and for 
broadened. and consequently make eans no appeal to be taken. for a more emcompassing Dear Editor: Incidentally, the Quinlans' at­discussion of the problem. 
torneys, Paul Armstrong and DOONESBURY
The essential ideas in the article In the October 30th article on the by Garry Trudeau 
James Crowley, are 1972
were that abortion exploits Quinlan case, I was quoted as 
graduates of the Notre Dame:. Law
women: that by submitting to noting that the means used to 
r 
IJ/& HAV& A NICE UF5, R£A/..LY.
School. They are highly com­
abortion, and using the pill and the sustain Karen Quinlan's life have 
I SIJR& MISS HOM&, 
W& l/Vf3 IN A UTTl& C&IJAR.
pe~ent, ethical attorneys. They are
IUD. women "have liberated man, been determined by the Quinlans' 
A-fRAMI3 IN L.AU~/... CAN'ION.IJ/13
Mil<£. I M&AN, IT's
domg a commendable job under
freeing him from any respon-pastor and the bishop of their 
NICE HE!<£ AT~ 
80TH JrX!J Rl!6l/LARt.Y, PRACTice ~
very difficult circumstances.
sibility for his actions"; and that diocese to be "extraordinary 
8UT CALIFORNIA IS 
/JRfNK 80TTtcPIJIATEiR, ANPMe 
women who agree to such treat-means" within the meaning of the 
V&RY $1?/0US A!JO(JT NlJT5 ANO
o SPeCIAL. 7lJ Mt•• ANP
ment from their men are denying Church teaching that ex­
I 
their own sexuality by encouraging traordinary means do not have to Professor of Law the continuation of male-Qriented, be used to sustain life. The article m a Ie-do m in a ted sex u a I then quoted me as saying, "In that 
Fox~
relationships. case I would be in favor of turning What I find immediately off the machine." This is disturbing about these ideas is that misleading, because I apparently 
Cheerleaders
they neglect to include a large did not make myself sufficienty 
faction of the population, and clear in the oral interview with the 
consequently fail to agree with the Dear Editor: facts. The faction of which I speak reporter. Wh
The means· used to support Y was it only the USC
is composed of those adults, men are ext-cheerleade that 1 ked foxy.?
Karen Quinlan's life rs oo so
and women, who have made the Wh I
raordinary. I_t is permissible but-en was a student we voted
mature and intelligent decision to T 11
avoid an unwanted conception, all not mandatory to discontinue spec! ICa Y not to have girl consideration of morals and the them. Viewing the case at a dist-cheerleaders, but that was before quality of the relations aside. ance, I do not believe I would girls were invented or maybe that 
As stated in the article, "Women discontinue them if she were my was the year they were all recalled are responsible, adult, human daughter. However, the decision is for factory defects. Whatever the beings''. Consider, then the optional and the decision of the case may have been, it's high time woman who has made the decision parents is morally justified my alma mater got as much to engage in sexual intercourse, because the means are truly ex-television coverage of foxy women not to satisfy the "lust" of her traordinary. as USC or anywhere else. If man, but in order to satisfy her The legal issue arises because necessary I will be willing to own undeniable sexual urges the doctors will not permit the contribute a sum of money towards (again, neglecting to analyze the support measures to be withdrawn the development of a scholarship 
context of this decision). Is it not in the absence of court permission °brmg f ·
fund t · 
oxy women to Notre 
the mark of a mature adult, who is Dame t d "th th b d
to do so and they have even in-. o ance WI e an at indeed taking responsibility for his dicated that they would disregard halftime .and bet.ween plays. 
or her own actions, to prevent an I 1 I h
unwanted conception by the most a court order to discontinue the n c osmg WIS to extend my effective means (to date) of· support. The case is a very narrow regards to Ted,next time he passes contraception, short of a later one, involving the capacity of a through.courtto interfere with familial and , • . P.atrick Henry Buckley. '70, '71 



------------,
t/A, 
Tuesday,November 4, 1975 the observer 
5 
~ -~--~~ 
Internal feud shakes Bangladesh 
TOWN & COUNTRY CENTER 
-COUPON­

CARDS
AT THE 

BOOKS
THIS COUPON WORT 
NEW DELHI, India <AP> ­The military-backed Bangla­desh government was shaken by an internal army feud Mon­day, but Khondakar Mushtaque Ahmed remained as president although many of the officers who brought him to power Aug. 
Ford appoints 'team' to posts 
(continued from page 3) 
politics and the administration 
overhaul. 
The questioning turned 
repeatt>dly to what he found wrong 
with the people he replaced. And, 
while there were variations, the 
unswer always came down to the 
same thing: a president has a right 
to choose his own team, and Ford 
did so. 
"The foreign policy of this country is in good hands," he said. "But I wanted a team that was my team." 
And he said he was convinced he eould install it now without rup­turing the eonfidence of U.S. allies in the stability of American policy. 
15 were believed arrested, dip­developments revolved around lomatic sources in New Delhi a single mission of senior army said. officers reasserting their in­
They discounted an Indian fluence over junior officers who news report that Mushtaque overthrew and killed President Ahmed had been replaced by Mujibur Rahman three months Brig. Khalid Musharaf, the No. ago. 2 man in the army, and said it The reports, which said there was possible that Musharaf was no bloodshed and no shots would play an important role fired throughout the day, in­as one of the main powers be­dicated that seven majors and hind the government. one colonel who led the Aug. 15 
According to diplomatic re­coup were believed to have ports from Dacca, the day-long been taken into custody after 
'Justice' conference continues with other scheduled speakers 
(continued from page 1) associate for planning and Dr. Juan E. Fleming, first strategy of the United Church of secretary of the Argentine Mission Christ, and Ms. Chris Cowap, staff to the United Nations, and Dr. associate for Action-Education of Honald E. ~Henning, national the National Council of Churches of 
director of CROP, will speak at a Christ in the U.S. 
luncheon today. Dr. i''rederick W. Dow of Notre 
i''r. Laurence Murphy, Dame and Richard J. Niebanck, 
representing the Center for secretary for social concerns of the llumanistics Studies at Seton Hall Lutheran group, are conference University, will speak at a dinner co-chairmen. 
tonight. Dow invites students and faculty Speakers Wednesday will be Dr. members to attend any of the Paul H. Sherry, executive conference sessions. 
lengthy negotiations between radio mentioned no names of the feuding factions. government leaders in its first 
Also reported arrested was four hours of resumed trans­the army chief of staff, Lt. mission. Gen. Ziaur Rahman, who had 
resisted earlier demands from It broadcast Bengali nation­senior officers that the majors alist songs, and in its initial be brought before a court mar-newscas_t made. ~o reference to tial for having killed Sheik Mu-domestic poltttcal develop­jib and members of his family. ments. 
The key junior officers in-Benders to direct 
volved in the coup had lived in the presidential palace since f h . 
Mushtaque took over as head of Dan ort sesslon 
government. 
Monday's developments be­gan, according to diplomatic sources, before dawn when units loyal to the senior officers took up positions around strate­gic points in Daca, including the presidential palace. 
At the same lime, the state radio went off the air, Dacca airport was closed and inter­national communications were severed. 
Hadio Bangladesh resumed its broadcasts in the evening, more than 12 hours after its normal opening time, but gave no immediate indication of who controlled the government. The 
A husband-wife team from Notre Dame will direct a session of the 1975 national conference for Final Year Fellus of the Danforth Foundation November 6-9 at Illinois Beach Lodge, Zion, Ill. 
Participating in a discussion ol "Values, Myths and Assumptions: Science and the Humanities" will be Dr. Harvey Bmder, professor of biology, and his wife, Eileen, a Notre Dame doctoral student in English and a teaching assistant at Indiana University at South Bt•nd. The conference will be attended by noted authorities in education, industry and business. 
$5.00 OFF ON ANY 
SWEATER 
TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER STORE 
I 
I( 
OFFER EXPIRES 
., NOV. 9 
ccn s 
men's shop, inc. 
BOXED 

regular price 
MAGAZINES
CORNER OF 
ART SUPPLIES 
MACRAME BEADS JUTE-WAXED LINEN 
McKINLEY 
NOVELTIES
AND 
2340 miracle lane mishawaka, indiana 46544
HICKORY 
219/256-0111 
GRAND OPENING 
BULOVA ACCUTRON 
FREE 
WATCH DRAWING 
-SIGN UP NOW ­
-20% OFF on all Turquoise Jewelry -20<yo OFF on all Diamond and Opal Jewelry -15% OFF on all clocks -FREE Accuracy test of your watch 
Join our earring &ring club (Buy 5 and get one free) ASK FOR DETAILS 
HIRTH'S HOUSE OF TIME 
919 McKinley Hwy. College Square
NOW AT 
(Across from Town & Country)
College Square 811 W. McKinley , Mishawaka MISHAWAKA Phone 255-3817 
Says AP survey 
Some pre-meds use 'cut-throat' techniques 
by Pat Cuneo Staff Reporter 
For many students, being ac­cepted to medical school becomes a rat race that produces anxiety, tension and sometimes ulcers, , an obsession with grades rather than learning, according to Alton Blakeslee, Associated Press science writer. 
Blakeslee recently conducted a survey of pre-med programs in major universities. 
"Some turn into grinds with the single goal of getting into med school and little interest in the broader world around them," he noted. 
"Some cheat on exams. And some sabotage fellow students to win a higher relative grade," Blakeslee said. 
He described competition for medical school as fierce since nooo men and women applied for only 14,763 places in the 114 United States medical schools last year. 
Of the 180 pre-professional students from Notre Dame who applied to med school last year, 13::. were accepted. 
Blakeslee did not touch on the reasons for the limited number of spaces in medical schools, but several doctors have accused the American Medical Association <Al\tA) of keeping the medical profession highly select. 
Various physicians elaborated by saying the AMA does this in order to maintain a high demand of physicians and therefore insure top financial benefits. 
Low percentage accepted 
Whatever the reasons may be, at present only one out of every three pre-med majors will enter medical school compared to the one of two ratio of five years ago. 
The Associated Press survey 
turned up a number of reported 
instances of student cheating and 
sabotaging of fellow students' lab 
experiments and notebooks to 
eliminate those students from the 
competitive field. 
Medical school admissions committees and other doctors say they deplore such unethical con­duct and cynicism, but the guilty are rarely caught. 
Dr. Albert Gellhorn, director of the Center for Biomedical Education at City College of New York, told of attending a con­ference on undergraduate education at the University of Pennsylvania in 1970. 
At this conference, pre-med students from several universities told him, "We cheat. We try to give wrong information to our colleagues. We take books from the medical libraries and destroy parts of them." 
They added, "We don't share information. We sabotage others' chemistry experiments." 
'Cut-throat' competition 
Medicine, University of Chicago. 
Describing current conditions, he said, "There is tremendous anxiety, and this is reflected in their <pre-med students') behavior. Sometimes they do things they would not think of otherwise. 
"I repeatedly tell them, you don't have to have straight A's to get into medical school," he added. 
Blakeslee's opinion poll also noted, "Students who were not premeds, but going to become chemists, were not tampered with. It was all done with the attitude YOU might be the one who keeps ME out of med school." 
Problems at ND 
med to biology said, "Just last week I sat down in the library auditorium and spotted a 'cheat sheet' for one of the upper level pre-med courses." 
He added, "I'm sure cheating occurs in other courses as well but pre-meds certainly have a lot of incentive--they either do well and make it or forget it." 
Several students stated the problem lies with the limited number of students accepted into med school when more doctors are needed and evidently more people are interested in the medical field. 
One student declared, "What's the use in dealing with the effects of a problem when you can't even get near the source--the AMA." 
''I sold my Leisure Suit through the Observer classifieds!'' 
SELL IT IN THE CLASSIFIEDS THEY GET RESULTS )0,000 people in the N.D WJcommunity reached daily 
.. . a List of 1500 to oose Froml 
~--~-------------------------~----~------------------------------------------------, 
Tuesday, November 4, 1975 
the observer 7
'----­
Isabel Peron rushed to hospital 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina ing an investigation of alleged sidents' idea is to convince Mrs. Peron returned Sunday wine industry workers union,( AP l -President Isabel Peron mishandling of funds in her ad­Mrs. Peron to voluntarily re­from her second weekend by was considered oart of a fac­was rushed to the hospital Mon· ministration. Some accusations sign in order to assure an or· the sea since resuming office tion that supports Mrs. Peron,day amid mounting pressures are against her directly. derly constitutional succession Oct. 16 after a month's health but there was immediate
no to give up leadership of a When it became apparent the without the agony of impeach­leave. She looked tanned and evidence to show that his mur·
na· lion torn by violence, inflation president's office would try to ment proceedings. But Mrs. rested and waved at the scat­der was connected with theand allegations of government block a congressional investiga­Peron said Saturday: "I won't tered crowds at the airport. leadership crisis.financial scandal. 
tion into the allegations, offi­let up one bit." 
An official bulletin said Mrs. cials of several opposition par­Private medical said The slain congressman was
sources Hojas' death, and that of a
Peron had a gall bladder prob· Hamon Pablo Rojas, who was
ties said they would push for it was too early to tell how :ll-year-old metalworkers union
h.>m and that it was not serious, impeachment. serious the president's nervous found early Monday in his leader found dead in Hosario,hut private doctors close to the Other politicians are specula­condition was. They said it home city of San Juan, 800 brought to at least 615 the ease said she had suffered a !ing openly about a possible could pass in a few days or miles west of here, with bullet known victims since Jan. 1 of nervous attack. military coup d'etat, and top­continue for more than a wounds in his head. San Juan the open political warfare in
A l'eronist congressman was level officers, while admitting month. Other medical sources newspapers said the left-wing Argentina.
assassinated, meanwhile, and nothing, have let it be known said she has been under treat· Peronist guerrillas, the Monto­More than 1,000 per­
lt•nsions rose higher in Argen· they want Mrs. Peron replaced ment for severe intestinal dis· neros, called to claim credit. sons have been killed since tina than at any time since the 
by a more dynamic leader. orders for some time and has Mrs. Peron took power .July I,
military restored civilian rule 
Political insiders say the dis-difficulty eating. Hojas, leader of the San Juan 1974. 
to the late Juan D. Peron's movement in May 1973. Mrs. Peron became president on the After ten years death of her husband in 1974. 
The 44-year-old Mrs. Peron's political condition was consid­<·red serious, whatever the 
$2 bill back, but only worth $1.22 
nwdical prognosis. SIH• has been under heavy WASHINGTON (AP l -The that the new bill is not just for Since 1966, the value of a dol· Dt>partment. That ml'ans that fire by dissident Peronists and two-dollar bill is coming back the Bicentennial, but will be­
lar has slipped to about 61 nl'w $2 bill will be worth onlyopposi tior. voliticians demand· next year after a 10-year lay· eome a fixed part of the Ameri· 
cents, according to the Labor about $1.22 
off, but don't expect it to buy ean currency, if it is accepted. whaI it used to buy. The back of the bill will por-
Huisking Chair 
Ikcause of inflation, the new tray the signing of the Declara· Franco's condition termed critical: $2 bill will be worth only about lion of Independence, as pic­donor, recipient $1.22, compared with the value lured in a painting by John 
internal bleeding causes concern
of the twos that were taken out Trumbull after the Hevolution­
of circulation in Treasury Secretary William Although there has been a $2 MADRID, SPAIN (AP( Gen. lie reported the 82-year--old 
The holder and the donor of the I<:. Simon announced Monday bill during much of the nation's Francisco Franco, in critical generalissimo came through the Charles L. Huisking Chair m that the new bill will be placed history, beginning in 1776, it condition from new internal operation and anasthesia well. Chemistry at the University of into circulation by the nation's was withdrawan from circula­bleeding, underwent surgery The news agency Europa Press Notre Dame will be honored at a hanks next April 13, the birth-tion in 1966 because Americans Monday to remove an ulcer and said the 24 doctors attending dinner l<'ri., Nov. 7, in the Center date of Thomas Jefferson. wt>ren't using it. Simon said he repair an abdominal artery, an Franco hesitated before approving 
to be recognized 1966. ary War. 
authorized government source the operation because of his weakfor Continuing Education. .Jl'fferson 's portrait will be on thinks the time is right to issue 
Dr. Anthony M. Trozzolo, who the front of the bill, which is it again. said. condition. holds the Huisking Professorship, being issued in connection with "I think Americans are going joins the Notre Dame faculty from the nation's Bicentennial obser· to see this as a convenience 
the technical staff of Bell vance ..Jefferson, the nation's and indeed use it," he said at a Laboratories. He has been in· third president, also was on the ne, s conference. If Americans volved there in developing prac-old bill. ust the twos, he said, they will I ical application of organic However. Simon also stressed need to carry fewer total bills. 1lh o 1 och l' m istry . JIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDDIIIIIROIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIJr 
liP has his doctorate from the -­1'nivl'rsity of Chicago and has ~ THE POSTER PLACE ~ 
received ft•llowships from the j § Atomic Energy Commission and -­tht• National Science l<'oundation. ! 100 11 x17 POSTERS only $10.00 ~=­
The lluisking Chair, announced = in 1971, was naml'd for the founder !-§­of <'has. L. lluisking & Co., Inc., == insly•prl•nts =5 
the parent company of Glyco <'lwmicals, Inc. 5 5 
It is one of two endowed 5 203 N. MAIN ST. 5 professorships given to Notre ~ I DamP by the Huisking Foundation, ~ SOUTH BEND 289-6977 i which also has supported a 5 5 sc h ola rsh i p fund at the University 5iiOOIUIIIIIUIIIJIIIJUJIIIIIIIJUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIJIIIIilllihMIIIIIIIIIIII..IJHIIIfi 
since 1947. • • • • • • • • • • t.t.• •)I••e • • • • e e e e e e • Charles Huisking served 17 • t"tA\..H TREE • years on the Science and • • • • ~~ngineering Advisory Council at •· DINING ROOM • Notre Dame, and his son, William, : R NO 1 • is a member of the University's • 
scienceAd~i~rycounci~. : WEDNESDAY NIGHT SP·ECIAL•
The HUiskmg fam1ly and • memb_ers _of the Science Adviso_ry • 
fRIED CHICKEN • 
Council Will be guests at the dm-: : ner. e M i\SII ED POTATOES-SALAD-HOT IUSCUITS e
Fa• rI'1er r r1·da y, at 2 p.m . . • 
Trozzolo will deliver a public • WITH THIS COUPON: • lecture entitled "The Image of e ALL YOU CAN EAT . 5 CENTS FOR FIRST e Chemistry" in the Center for: ~ 27Q ·BEER (WITH DINNER) • tContinuing I<:ducation auditorium. • • • • e • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •.• • • • • • • ~~ • t ~ 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
..... .... " 
WANTE.D 
Lost: Blue NO jack<'!. found BluE' sese jack<'! at Nickie's Friday p.m. Call 1159.
CLASSIFIED ADS
NI'E'd 2 G.A. tickets for G<'orgia 
--. -
TPCh. PIE'aS<' call Mike 1503. 
NPed 4 Georgia Tech General Quality stereo equipment • 30-60 FOR RENT Call 4-off. direct PERSONALS
DPsperaiPiy nPed 4 G.A. tickets for Admission tickets. Peggy percent Factory GPorgia TE'ch. Will pay! Call John 
4198. guaranteed to beat any price in 3039. ---· -· town! Golden Dome Records & For rPnl: somPone to sublet NPPd 2 Tech tickets. Call Bud 289-Music Co., 809 Flanner, ph. 1488. apartment at Crestwood from Jan. Wanted: Afl<'rnoon part-lim<' help. 
Erratum: Correct numbPr for info
9756. to May. Call 232-3516. 
BOOK SHOP. 30,000 Books and on sex discrim inalion at NO Dl'nnis. T & C Theatre. Wanted: 3 or 4 No.Pitt tickets. Prints. Ralph A. Casperson Books. Barrie Ill, at 287-0742. Charlie 233-3769. 1303 Niles Buchanan Road, Niles. LOST & FOUND Wed. Sun. to or Girls: KPep those cards & letters 
Call 259 9090 after 1:00, ask for 
Hours Sat. 9 7 chancE'. coming. Roger D., Box 723, NotreNl'Pded male to share IWO· 
bPdroom house. Mishawaka. Call Lost: K<'ystone Everflash Camera 259 9173. NOTICES with SE'ntimental film inside. Lost 
Dame. ln. at Stepan fiE'Ids near Juniper on 
FOR SALE Marge: L<'t's gel together and
NPed 2 or 4 G.A. Georgia Tech Morrissey Loan Fund $20-$150. 1-Oct. 24. Please call 3434. 
talk. Contact mE'.
tickets. Will pay $$. Help, call day waiting period, 1 percent int-
For Sale: Stereo equipment. plus Roger
Mary; 5135. erest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune Lost: a black watch face and
ten-speed bike. Call 1378 or 7837. ­
basement, M-F 11:15-12:15. works for a Dynasty watch. 3212. 
HE'y Oakley!
Wanted: 2 GA Georgia Tech lix. 
For Sale: 65 VW, new motor, good . .. You got me. If ya don't know
Call 259·0631 after 5 pm. "Gay Guide to Notre Dame-South Found: 2 small identical keys on
transportation. $325. 232-8784. the words, hum. Glucose does lots
Bend." One dollar. Available wire keychain. At SMC by
at at 212dE'grees centigrade, but who
DesperalE' I y need 5 GA tix to Pandora's or write PO Box, Notre LeMans. Call 1795. 
Guitar for sale excellent con-car<'s what...
Georgia Teoch. Call 4430. Dame, ln. 46556. 
dition, $200. Call Peg 287-8733. Lost: Oct. 10, man's watch; behind We don't need shoes to dance. 
Yes, YE'S, No, YE'S, Yeos.
I nE'E'd 5 G<'orgia Tech tickets, Preognant and didn't meoan to be? CCE on football fields. Brown 
For sale: furniture, chairs, s-leather strap, cracked crystal. ... 4112student or GA. Call Tom 1136. Call Birthright 288-7640. 
heolves, eoverything. Call 232-3516. RE'ward. Call Tom 1694. VE'ry reasonable. Seniors: Don't forget to get tix forWanted 2 GA lix to Georgia Tech. Budapest night -1989 Prairie Ave. 
the Last Hurrah Armory Party S-Call Sal 6984. Only Hungarian restaurant in 
Lost: OnE' turquoise ring at Senior 
For sale: Macrame jewE'Iry and Bar, LeoMans, or vicinity. Of turday night 1 Michiana area. Open 5:00-10:00 plant hangE'rs. Call Barb 233-3876. sentimental value. Reward. Call
Need 1 9 GA Georgia Tech !IX. lues thru Sat. Serving American Will you donate your student ticket
5773.
Chris 4441. dinners but specializes in 
For sale: 30 gat. aquarium com· so that a retarded child can see a -Hungarian <'ntrees. Serving beer plete. Fish included. Great deal. Notre DamE' football game?
Lost: Gold ring, round black stone
NPE'dGAIIix for GPO. Tech. Call 277-and imported wines. For reser-Also, free darling kittens. Call 233· beiW<'E'n Lyons and Stepan. Qu<'slions: Tom Harbin, 287· 1832. vations call 234-2332. 2782 after S p.m. 6673, Kathy McGlynn, 288-4315.
RE'ward. Call JoAnn, 7936. 
~ 



Regular IH season ends;playoffs on Wednesday 
by Lou Severino 
The interhall football regular season ended yesterday with a 4 game slate. Alumni edged Sorin 7­6, Flanner blanked Holy Cross 6-0, .Stanford! beat Cavanaugh 13-6 and Keenan won by forfeit from Zahm. 
I l The South Quad championship will be decided Wednesday night at 9 when Pangborn (4-1-ll meets Dillon (4-1-1) at Cartier Field. The winner of that game will meet Keenan (6-0l for the championship Sunday aftertnoon. · 
Alumni 7 Sorin 6 
Sorin got on the scoreboard first as defensive back Rich Hohman picked off a pass and ran 51 yards for a touchdown. However, Sorin missed the extra-point. 
Alumni's score came in the third quarter. and was set up by Squeak 
ND harriers place seventh 
by Mike Towle 
I 
Although Penn State was able to 
l ~ 
place runners in the top two positions. they were only able to finish second as a team in the Central Collegiate Cross Country Championship on Saturday. The 
B-ball tickets still available 
Students may still purchase season basketball tickets today through Wednesday at the ticket office at Gate 10 of the ACC. T­ickets may be purchased between the hours of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. Only $21 bleacher seats are still available. 
Logan's interception. Four plays later Fullback Frank Driscoll powered in from 2 yards out for the score. The extra point attempt was blocked, but Sorin was offside on the play giving Alumni a second chance. Kicker Kevin Bollyard split the uprights with the extra point which provided the margin of victory. George Gulyas played a standout game defensively for the losers. 
Flanner 6 Holy Cross 0 
Early in the second quarter a low snap from center gave Flanner the ball on the Holy Cross 13. On 4th down and goal from the 3, quar­terback Mark Coons rolled to his right and hit Mike Schuff in the right corner of the end zone for the score. 
The Holy Cross offense led by the running of Larry Mcreif moved the 
University of Michigan edged out 
the Nittany Lions 45-50 in the 
meet which was held at University 
Park, Pennsylvania. 
Penn State's Paul Stemmer 
covered the 5.2 mile course in 25:02 
to finish first. Teammate George 
Malley placed second. Notre 
Dame's top performer was Steve 
Welch in 21st place as the Irish 
came in seventh among the thirt­
enn teams thattook part. Welch 
was followed by Jim Reinhart, 
31st; Jim Hurt, 37th; Dennis 
Vanderkraats, 47th; and Joe 
Yates, 50th; for Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame now looks forward 
to preparing for the NCAA District 
4 meet which is scheduled for 
November 15 in Bloomington, Indiana. 
ball at times but could not sustain a drive against the hard-hitting Flanner defense. Holy Cross outgained Flanner 97­88 in total yardage. 
Stanford 1:1 Cavanaugh 6 
Tim Pollock opened the scoring by running 40 yards for a touch­down in the 1st quarter. Stanford's other points came on a 10 yard pass from Richie Pullano to John Thornton. The Stanford defense was led by Bill Blum and Dave Wenke!. Bob Kelly played both ways for Stanford and turned in a great effort before being injured. 
Here are the final standings: 
North  
Won  Lost  
Keenan Stanford Flanner Holy Cross Grace Zahm Cavanaugh  6 5 5 :l 1 1 0  () I 1 3 5 5 6  
South  
\\'on  Lost  
Pangborn Dillon Alumni Off-Campus Sorin Morrissey  .f .f :l 3 2 2  1 1 2 2 4 4  

Howard-St. Ed's 5 
nday's games marked the final regular season int.erhall contests. Playoffs begin Wednesday. 
*Observer 
Sports 

The Irish Eye 
;;;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:::;::::·::::===============================================================:====================::==================================Something to 
play lor 
There are ramifications of last Saturday's Notre Dame-Navy game which extend beyond the final31­10 score by which the Irish upped their record to 6-2. It was much more than just another Notre Dame­Service Academy contest, not only because Navy had a very respectable team, but because it may have been a very important point in Notre Dame football. 
The game definitely held more import than just another win or loss. Why would major newspapers such as the New York Daily News the Washington 
Post and others cover a Notre Dame-service academy game, where an Irish victory is usually given? 
The answer is that if Notre Dame lost, it was a story. a big story. Losing to a service academy, their third home loss in a row, the first time a Notre Dame team has lost three regular-season games since 1963. It would have been ripe bait for national coverage. The decline of a national football power; sacrilege to the tradition and legend that have enh­anced ant;! mystified Irish football for decades. A loss would have been taken as the exterior representation of internal deterioration, a con­firmation of all the rumors that have circulated about Notre Dame football for the last month, and any others that anyone might want to create. 
That story never came off, but there is a story in 
the Irish' victory, one that will never get national 
exposure. It stems from the very real possibility 
that the Irish might have lost that game to Navy. 
Navy was a problem not just because they had a team physically capable of beating ND, but also because there was a chance that the Irish players might lack motivation. Where do you go after you spend one half of the season building up to one game, play your hearts out, and lose? What do you play for when your two biggest games are behind you,and there's no more 55-24 humiliations to avenge? 
"A 9-2 season, a bowl game," shot back Co­captain Ed Bauer in the locker room, after the Navy contest. No hesitation, no compromise in his voice. There is motivation, even for a senior, whose season had to peak in the USC game. Bauer's season, Notre Dame's season didn't end October 25th. 
"It could have happened," said Bauer. "The last time we lost (against Michigan State) we were kind of flat the next week against North Carolina. It's important that Navy had a real good team, everyone respected them. None of the players gave up. We've got three of our toughest games of the season coming up, and we can still have a good season and shoot for a bowl bid." 
To understand Bauer's optimism you have to understand his standards. It means thinking of a good season as not necessarily an undefeated one. It means thinking of a bowl game as not necessarily being for the national championship It may not offer everything you would like, but it's something, and it's something respectable. This doesn't mean that Bauer's or the rest of the teams' sta~dards are any lower than anyone elses, but their the only standards they have unless they want to pass the season off as a flop. 
~his wou.ldn'.t have been hard to do considering the 
umque cntenon by which Notre Dame football seasons are judged. Excellent anywhere else becomeE. mediocre here, a .500 season is a disaster. 
After the USC game the thinking was not that four 
more victories would complete a fine season, but t­
hat one more defeat would certainly mean a poor 
one. By Notre Dame standards that is. 
The campus reflectea tneir adherence to these 
standards. After the loss to Southern Cal 1t lost 
some confidence in the team, and some of the spirit 
that accompanies it. The lrishwere confronted 
Saturday by a tough team,and a student body whose 
allegiance had either slipped a little or shifted to 
basketball. 
'_'After ou~ performance last week against USC," said Bauer mcreduously, not believing that anyone could fail to appreciate the desire and deter­mination the Irish put into that game. He was on the field and knows the supreme effort of the Irsh against the Trojans, but they didn't light it up on the scoreboard, and it wasn't taken into account by many. So th?ugh the Irish had nothing to prove to t~e students m th~ Navy game, by winning it, they did prove somethmg. 
What they proved was that they were winners. 
Even after a heartbreaking defeat even with only 
six first. downs and just I.9 yards 'per carry, they 
were wmners. The fact that they haven't been 
dynam~c all season simply means they aren't a 
dynamic team. You have to go with what you have 
and hope it's good enough to win. If it isn't, then you 
have to accept it and go out and try again. Notre 
Dame did that Saturday afternoon. 
They won the Navy game with defense but if th­
at's their strong point, then who can blam~ them for 
relying on it. 'Td rather be second guessed for not 
opening up but win the game," says Dan Devine. 
Not that the Irish offense can afford to lie dormant 
for the rest of the season,but it is a credit to,the team 
that should t.hat happen, as in the Navy game, they 
can absorb It and still win the game. 
"This week will be easier to get up for because it's 
the last home game," said Bauer, who will be 
playing his last game ever in Notre Dame Stadium. 
"I know it means a lot to me personally." 
1975 has been a rough year for Notre Dame 
footbalhnmany ways, but it still can be a successful 
season. The Irish aren't just "Playing out" the rest 
of the season. They're playing it up. 
