
------~-----~------,....-----~--------~----------~ 



by Jim Winters Staff Rt>porter 
Could stricter gun control laws help bring the soaring crime rate under control~ Or would more legislation only violate the liberties of law abiding citizens~ Two area residents with law enforcement experience debated the gun control issue Thursday night in the Library auditorium. 
The debate was sponsored by the platform committee of the 1976 Mock Democratic National Con­vention. which will be held at Notre Dame next March. Edward Chapleau, head trial lawyer of the St. Joseph County prosecutor's office, spoke in favor of stricter gun control laws before an audience of about 100. He was opposed by Howard Williams, a Notre Dame law student, former Indiana University policeman, and an avid pistol target shooter. 
"We are in an arms race within this country," Chapleau began. ·'We are in a society where han­dguns are very commonplace, ordinary things." The prosecutor cited the ease with which two potential assassins of President ~·ord obtained their weapons as an example of the danger of readily available firearms. Easy access to guns encourages criminal activity, Chapleau continued, and probably contributed to a near-record 17 per cent increase in crime last year. 
"Fifty-three per cent of the 19,500 murders in the U.S. in 1974 were committed with handguns," said Chapleau, citing FBI stat­istics. "One-fourth of the aggravated assaults and one-third of the robberies also involved guns. 
Gun control legislation wouldn't cure everything, but it would be restrictive." 
More rigid laws would also lessen the incidence of accidental shootings and murders committed in passion, Chapleau predicted. And they would probably afford greater, not less, protection for homeowners. Only two per cent of gun owners who are confronted by robbers in their homes actually shoot the invader, said Chapleau, and ''a lot of times its the robber who comes out alive and the homeowner who comes out dead." 
To combat the "arms race," Chapleau recommended requiring the registration of every gun with both the federal and state governments. In addition, all guns should be licensed by local authorities, said Chapleau, and firearms sales strictly regulated. The prosecutor maintained his provisions would restrict the easy circulation of handguns, make them easier to trace, and not seriously impair the rights of sportsmen and other honest cit­izens. 
Sportsman Williams disagreed, declaring "law abiding firearms owners are sick of being blamed for crime." Pistol shooting is an old sport in this country, he cont­inued, and "is engaged in by 20,000 people who do nothing more violent than poke holes in a piece of paper­-they are not the criminal element.'' 
Sen. Birch Bayh's <0-Ind.) anti­gun proposal, said Williams, would have outlawed Wyatt Earp's gun (gun> with its 12-inch barrel." And tighter firearms restrictions would be "an invitation to civil disobedience among the population.'. 
Williams, who has written five 
articles for American Rifleman, 
the National Rifle Association 
magazine, said that organization 
has "only recently" begun lob­
bying in Congress against stronger 
Director of Maintenance calls 
complaints of odor unfounded 
j
by Chris Hopkins one part of the lake, into an eyesore.
Staff Reporter Lyon maintains that, "This is the worst I have 
Complaints of a disturbing odor coming from the ever seen the lake. It was cleaned up just before the 
northeast corner of St. Mary's Lake are totally Southern Cal weekend and all this has accumulated 
unfounded, according to a report by Edward Lyon, over the past three weeks." He added, "It is the 
director of maintenance. Maintenance Dept's responsibility to insure the 
The stench reported by the Holy Cross residents upkeep of the lake. However our job would be made 
in a letter to the Observer, was apparently due to much easier if the few litterbugs would stop their 
the combination of the decaying leaves and the contributions to the problem. We take pride in this 
warm temperatures. campus and this debris will be cleaned up." 
Lyon's examination revealed an excessive According to Fr. Michael Murphy, Chairman of 
amount of decaying leaves which have found their the .Earth Science Department, the problem can be 
way into the lake. Along with this, there was the attributed to the every unseasonably dry, warm 
crossbar of police road barricade, a park bench, weather of the past month. Normally by this time of 
and numerous beer cans and bottles. There were year the water has cooled enough to allow the leaves 
also many peices of paper and paper cups floating to settle to the bottom of the lake. The warm tem­
on the lake's surface with the ducks. The com­peratures have prevented the lake from going 
bination af all these elements has turned, at least through it's normal "turning over" period. 
gun laws. Strong local laws have not succeeded in slowing the homicide rates of New York, Chicago, Detroit or Washington, D.C., he added. And besides, said Williams, "the danger of being shot is less than that of drowning in your bathtub." 
Williams further maintained that most gun control proposals would violate the second amend­ment to the Constitution, which says, "A well-regulated militia being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed.'' 
Chapleau had cited the case of 
ll.S. v. Miller, in which the Supreme Court ruled that the amendment did not guarantee the right to own guns outside of "well regulated militias." Williams said he disagreed with both Chapleau's and the court's interpretation. 
The Chapleau-Williams debate was the second of a series held in preparation of the writing of the convention platform, which will be sent to Michiana legislators for their consideration. Next Thur­sday night, two speakers will discuss legalizing marijuana 
Main goals of ROTC students orientated to'Ward education 
by Bob Mader another Naval Academy and its remarkea. Consequently the 
Campus Editor graduates are expected to serve Army offers a number of options immediately as officers of the line. for leadership training during theThe three Reserve Officer The other two services, however, second semester.
Training Corps programs at Notre send their graduates to school The Air Force ROTC unit isDame reflect the backgrounds of after graduation to learn their already through drilling for thetheir commanders and the intent of 
the programs. Most of the ROTC students contacted said they entered the programs to get an education by means of a scholarship. In return, they will enter therservice for four years or longer. The primary concern of most students is their education. ROTC comes second on their list of priorities. However, in Navy ROTC this does not seem to be the case. The fact that ROTC is more demanding than the other services is not a fault. Captain King W. Pfieffer is a graduate of Annapolis. He has taught at the Federal German Naval Academy and has served on the Joint Staff of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in Washington, D.C. Pfieffer's background is traditional military and one of distinguished service. Secondly, Navy ROTC is the only service which commissions its graduates as regular Navy of­ficers. The other two service give  specialty field. For example, the Army would send its ROTC of­ficers to infantry school or armor school. The Air Force trains its new officers as pilots, navigators, personnel managers, or missile specialists. The programs are not designed to be demanding. Also, the commanders of Army ROTC, Col. Alvin J. Gendron and Air Force ROTC, Col. Norman E. Muller, are ROTC graduates themselves. Consequently, they are not sticklers for rules. One point of contention with Navy students was the "chit" disciplinary system. Some students said that the officers were liberal in their distribution of chits for such infractions as hair cut and uniform regulations. Others said the cadet otficers were likewise liberal in giving chits. Navy ROTC is the only unit which drills for a full year. To many of the freshmen and sophomores drill is "walking around in circles in the parking lot." Gendron said the Army unit drill  semester. The unit will engage in classroom leadership training. When the unit is drilling, the sophomores are given more responsibility than Army and Navy sophomores. A number of complaints were received about the Navy in­structors. No major complaints were received about the Army and Air Force instructors. Some Air Force engineering students complained of being overworked. The Army is the only service which allows its new officers to go to graduate school. The Air Force allows its ROTC officers to go to medical school. Gendron sums up the Army's philosophy as "looking for a well­educated student with a degree." Each program has a different emphasisand different advantages and disadvantages. Each of the programs is run by highly com­petent men. Both Gendron and  
mainly  reserve  status  com­ only for a semester because drill is  Muller  have  extensive  
missions. The Navy runs its ROTC  too tedious.  "These kids are  too  backgrounds in education and hold  
programs  in  lieu  of  building  damn  bright  today.''  G;endron  advanced degrees.  

Edward Chapleau and Howard Williams debated the merits of gun control, before an interested audience of about 100. (Photos by Tony Chifari) 
r--------------­
the observer Friday, November 14, !,975
2 
an~ campus taday 
friday, november 14, 1975 
all day -exhibit "photographs" by wlll.ton dye, architecture bldg lobby 
12:15 pm -travelogue series "wales!" by bob mcintosh, room 278, galvin aud. 
3:30pm -design of humanistic work series "psychological and mental health considerations In the design of humanistic work" by stanlslav v. kasl, yale university, hayes-healy center 
5:15pm -mass and supper, bulla shed 
7, 9, 11 pm -film "a touch of class" engineering aud. $1 
7:30 -festival "blues festival" stepan center, tickets: $3, both sessions: SS 7:30pm -hockey "michigan at notre dame" field house, ace ; 10-1 am -coffeehouse "terry mchale and the traveling lum­berjack review, 11; tom taught, 12" smc snackshop 
-nazz closed this weekend due to blues festival saturday, november 15, 1975 
8:30 am, -debate tournament "prellmlnarv rounds" 3rd floor1:30pm 
o'shaq 1:30pm -football "irish cage panthers" pitt stadium 6:30pm -film, sponsored by chinese association, library aud. 7, 9, 11 pm -film "a touch of class" engineering aud. $1 7:30pm -festival "blues festival" stepan center, tickets: $4 7:30pm -hockey "michigan at notre dame" field house, ace sunday, november 16, 1975 1:00pm -debate tournament "elimination round" Jrd floor o'shag 
6:45 -meeting "celtic society meeting" lewis hall, parlor b 8 pm -lecture rep. paul mcclosk4y (r-callf.) library aud.
. 
8:15pm -recital "scott wilson, grad. student, organ recital" sacred heart church 
St. Mary's c~o-exchange courses set according to same guidelines 
by Patti Ruecco 
Staff Reporter Academic co-exchange courses for the coming year will follow the same guidelines used during the previous year, according to Sr. Francesca Kennedy, registrar at St. Mary's. 
Much of the course allotment depends on the student's year. As the guidelines stand now, fresh­men may not take any coex courses without permission from 
( * The Observer l 
Night  Editor:  Daniel  
"Boone" Sanchez  
Assistant  Night  Editor:  
AI  Rutherford  

Layout StaH: Mrs. Wilfred Owen, Mary "Sophie" Pinard Day Editor: Mo Flynn, Marglann lrr Copy Reader: Mary Egan, 
Fred Herbst 
Features: Jim Stevens Sports: O.J. Simpson (32) 
Typists: Tessie Clemens, Bill 
Heylan, Mel Celeste, Howard 
Halle 
Night Controller: Martha Fanning 
the Academic Affairs Office. 
With the exception of seniors, any other student is permitted one co-ex course per semester. 
Senior status allows a student t­wo co-ex courses per semester. Other students are permitted one co-ex course per semester, if the course is not in their major. 
Any exceptions mut be taken care of through Gail Mandell, assistant to ~the vice-president for academic affairs. 
One advantage to co-exchange courses is that certain of them fulfill core requirements for graduation. Kennedy mentioned Religious Studies and Speech and Drama courses as examples. 
The system between St. Mary's of bringing about a closeness 
and Notre Dame was adopted to safeguard the 3000 credits per semester limit set up by the two schools, Kennedy explained. 
"It can allow for as many as 1,000 co7exchange courses a semester, with one-credit.courses such as band allowing for even more," the registrar explained. 
Kennedy added, "We think it's going very well. Both registrars have worked very closetohelp any student." 
Mandell was unavailable for 
comment. 
:~ 

One, two credit courses at SMC 
by Liz Merrell 
Starr Reporter 
Pre-registration for students at SMC is underway. Any student who is 1 or 2 credits short should consider one of the following courses, new to the SMC curriculum. 
The Humanities Department is offering a course entitled, "Love in the Western World." It is a historical view of the changing Western aspects of love, sex and marriage, as well as the changing attitudes towards women and their role in society. 
Dr. Bruno Schlesinger, in­structor of the course and head of the Department, plans to integrate the art, literature and music of the various periods along with in­cluding new insights into the history of family life. 
The class will meet Monday and Wednesday at 3:25 p.m. and 2 credits will be given. 
A one-credit course entitled "Film: Images of America" has been added to the curriculum in the English Department. 
According to the instructor, Max Westler, "We will be considering film as the expression of a mythology, peculiarly American." 
He plans to spend part of the bicentennial celebrations discussing and evaluating the fugures and themes that haunt the national cinema. 
Fifteen films will be shown throughout the semester, in­cluding: "Mr. Smith Goes To Washington", "My Darling Clementine", "Duck Soup" <Marx Brothers), "It's a Gift" (W.C . Fields), "Citizen Kane", "Rebel Without a Cause", and films by Alfred Hitchcock, Howard Hawks and Buster Keaton. 
The films will be supplemented by four readings: Huckleberry Finn, Whitman's Song of Myself, The Great Gatsby, and a collection of short stories by Ernest Hemingway. 
Westler said there will be no 
examinations or papers, but that 
attendance will be required. The 
lecture course is open to all 
students and will meet on Monday 
and Wednesday at 3:00. There will 
be a registration fee of $7.50. 
A new course, initiated by two 
members of the SMC Art Depart­
ment entitled "Frontiers", is 
concerned with exposing students 
to various aspects of art in ways 
that they would not experience 
through a traditional program. 
The objectives of the course are 
to develop a non-classroom 
oriented environment in the hopes 
between the students and faculty in a manner more related to the art lifestyle and actual mode of creating. 
Seminars will be based on such things as the relationship of time to Art, and an experimental video piece done in South Bend. 
The class is open to Art majors for two credit hours who wish to develop an openess and awareness of oneself and the real world. 
now appearing in the 
UNDAY 

STUDENT NIGHT SUNDAY 
NOV 9th NO COVER CHARGE & YOUR FIRST DRINK 1/2 PRICE WITH THIS AD & YOUR 
ND OR SMC ID HE WHITE HOUSE I 
8 MI. N. OF STATE LINE. TAKE 31 TO NILES THEN Nq~'{'H ON 51 3 S. 683-9842 

(Main Church)  
5:15p.m. Sat.  Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.  
9:30 a.m ..  Sun.  Fr. David Tyson, C.S.C.  
10:45 p.m. Sun.  Fr. Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C.  
12:15 p.m. Sun.  Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C  

Evensong will be celebrated at 4:30p.m. in the Lady Chapel. Father Robert Kerby will be the homilist. 
FOR YOUR BACK PACKING 
NEEDS 
NEW RELEASES 
-tc WIND ON THE WATER GRAHAM NASH 
ilFEELS SO GOOD GROVER WASHINGTON 
*HOUSE PARTY TEMPTATIONS 
SEALS & CROFTS -«GREATEST HITS 
AMERICA'S -«GREATEST HITS 
LP'S $4.99 I 8 TRACKS $6.29 
WE'RE NOW OPEN · Mon -Fri 10 -9 Sat 10-8 
RECORDS 
919 COLLEGE SQUARE 
the p 
George Graves 
Mail Pouch Hoom 
THE NEW BONNEVILLE SHOWBANll 
(This weekend -no cover 
charge with student I.D.) HAPPY HOUR Mon.-Fri. 4:00-7:30 LADIES' NIGHT Tues. 8:00-10:00 MEN'S NIGHT Thurs. 8:00-10:00 
PIZZAS, SNACKS
EVERY MONDAY-REDUCED PRICES 
& SANDWICHES
ON BEER AND BAR DRINKS 
SERVED ANYTIME 7 ft. TV screen for Monday night football. ~~!'~~'''AArn:erica's Finest Shaw and Dance Sand• Six Nights A. Wee¥. 
THE HEADQUARTERS
PARKMOR PLAZA,.IIISTOL ST. (IYPASS 11'2) ELKHART 
~~~~~~~---­
~-­
----------~~~~~~~------~ 
CHC to poll about co-ed living 
by Phil Cackley Coeducational living was an ment to write the poll. It will use a wants to get as many people with "Notre Dame is a unique school." 
Starr Reporter issue dealt with by the COUL random sampling of the student expertise or interest on the matter Anyone wishing to serve as a report submitted to the Board of body and will be conducted on a involved as possible. He said a t­member on the committee, or with Trustees at this fall's October hall-to-hall basis. horough job looking at all the comments on the issue can call Ed 
The Co-ed Housing Committee meeting. The Board subsequently problems and angles of the VanTassel at 3313or John Salveson 
The latest date for the dist­
<CHC> will conduct a poll early referred the report to the SLC. 
next semester determine ribution of the poll is very early in 
to st­John DiPietro, chairperson of 
the semester, according to
udent's attitudes on co-educational the Planning and Policy Com­Van Tassel.
living at Notre Dame. This is the mittee, appointed Ed VanTassel,
first step in a series of actions North Quad representative, to the "The important thing is to get investigating the feasibility of co­
SLC as chairperson of the CHC. them back," VanTassel em­
ed dorms on campus. DiPietro said the committee was phasized, in speaking of the poll. The CHC is a subcommittee of looking at the matter "from He said he hoped that all the people the Planning and Policy Com­viewpoints either way, pro or con. picked at random would respond
mittee, which is a standing com­We want to do a thorough job." He and r~turn the poll.
mittee of the Student Life Council stressed that the CHC!was an ad­
John Salveson, South Quad
<SLCl. 
hoc committee, composed of 
representative to the SLC, is 
resource people from all sectors of directing the second area of ac­the University. 
tion: contacting other institutions 
There are four specific areas in 
which have coeducation housing.,
which the CHC will work in in­
vestigating coed housing. They Salveson said he and the people are: 1) an attitude poll of the working with him were sending students; 2) contacting other out letters to a number of these 
colleges which have coed housing; Sauer Braten Served
institutions, many of them major
:ll the formation of a student­
colleges and universities. Some of
faculty-administration committee 
these schools include Harvard, 
Hans Haus
to evaluate the information gat­
Yale, and Stone Hill, a S.C.S.C.
hered; and 4) the formulation of school in the East.
plans for implementation by 
Some of the poll's specific quest­
another tri-partite committee of 
ions include what kinds of coed
students, faculty, and administrat­
housing these institutions have, 
2803 South Michigan Street-Phone 291-552ion 
what options are open to students VanTassel directs the attitude and how well coed housing works. German FoQd Our Specialty poll. He said the CHC is working The tri-partite committee of Created with Old World Atmosphere. Specializing in Garman and American Foods.
John DiPietro with the Social Services Depart-students, faculty and administrat, ion evaluating the information will Ford encouraged over look for the most valuable aspects 
of other universities' programs and the application of these to * So11th Bend's Finest Banquet Rooms
latest NYC default plans 
Notre Dame. The Alpine & Bavarian Rooms "We're trying to find the best, 
Open 10:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m.-Closed Sundays and Holidays
WASHINGTON <APl -Pres­ment officials and told them ident Ford was described that the state might also have 
most economical way to im­Thursday as encouraged by the to cut back on aid to municipal­plement coed housing," Salveson 
stated.
latest plan to rescue New York ites across the state. There were indications that a wage The committee for formulatingCity from default, and his press 
secretary hinted broadly that freeze in other municipalities plans for use will choose specific fo'ord soon may endorse stopgap could also be part of the plan. proposals based on the facilities NOW OPEN The governor declined to dis­available. The committee will * 
financial aid for the city. 
It seemed apparent that Ford cuss other aspects of the plan, consider the results of lthe poll and WE CATER FQR • the findings of the evaluation •
was reviewing his longstanding which was to be considered in opposition to New York aid. an emergency legislative ses­committee. • Press Secretary Ron Nessen sion. VanTassel said additional ~ VICTORY PARTIES : 
Nessen said the President has research is being done to locate •
said the situation is being moni­tored closely and continuously. no *
altered in way his opposition articles and studies on this housing ~ Nessen also stated that "the to federal help but noted that issue. "This is going to be a ;: situation that we are talking under the rescue plan, the city significant piece of research on KEG BEE R Jt. would "need short-term money coed housing, " VanTassel stated. Jt Jt.
about has changed." This is in­
terpreted as a further clue that for seasonal reasons." He explained that there were * (IN S T Q ( K) If-might his It is not yet clear that this already 10 or 12 resource people on : If-
the President alter 
money would have to come the CHC but that more persons •CATERING_ * position to meet the changed 
circumstances. from the federal government. werewelcomeonthecommittee. 1ft SPECIALLY -AWAY GAMES-* "The more interest there is shown • * 
Moreover, Nessen sought to 
picture his boss as hero Rep. Me Closkey incoeducationalhousing,themore t TNOD·TSHMEC WE CATER FOR :
the if 
the latest rescue plan works, favorable are our chances . for BUS T R JpS * 
saying: to speak Sunday serious consideration of the ~ COMMUNITY * matter," he commented. .. PHO * 
"The President feels that this 
action, or apparent action, Rep. Paul N. McCloskey, Jr. DiPetrio also stressed this point. .. N E : 259·0 2 6 1 H 0 U R S : * 
<R-Cal > will current
largely is the result of his own discuss "We're interested in obtaining 1~ FREE : 
legislation in the U.S. Congress at 8
position against a federal bail­input from any sector of the + M 0 N -SAT * 
p.m. Sunday, Nov. 16, in the
out of New York City." University. We don't want to 1 Jt
+ DEL/VERy
Meanwhile, New York Gov. Memorial Library Auditoruim. preclude any sentiments," he ~ 9:30 -MIDNIGHT: 
The program, sponsored by the
Hugh Carey hinted that a wage stressed. i h $15 00 minim urn h P.) ...
Student Union Academic Com­
freeze or ceiling for state em­He emphasized that the CHC · •••••••••...••i.JIJ"~~:l1F... ...._...._...
mission, is open to the publicployes might be part of his plan without charge.
to stabilize the state's finances. 
r-~.w=-a~;;;t~~y ...-;::;;-;o-::.;..~:d7thc~;-l
A member of the Committee onCarey met with local govern-
Government Operations,Turkey voting McCloskey was the first Republican member of Congress to It t costs pennies oppose the United States in­volvement in VietNam. Later, he 
tl. A TOUCH OF CLASS t
Students are able to vote for the was the first member of the House biggest male and female turkeys to propose impeachment of t
George Segal and Glenda Jackson 
on campus at the dining halls President Nixon for obstruction of 
t
during the dinner hours tonight justice. on the way to an affair. throu~h Tuesday ni~ht, Nov. 18. McCloskey's subcommittee on t 
Votes cost a penny a piece. government information reported Candidates include all students, two major acts last year. The first faculty anc:l 'idministrators. The was the "Freedom of Information Nov. 14-15 
•t
two winners will receive a dinner Act" amendments, making it more date together at the Morris Inn on difficult for executive agencies to 7, 9, 11 pm t Sunday, Nov. 23. withhold information from the 
All proceeds from the contest, public. The second was the Eng. Aud. t which is sponsored by Breen­"Privacy Act." He also helped Phillips, will be donated to the Clay draft the Federal Energy Ad­Adm $1 t Com Center in South Bend. ministration Act. 
MIDNIGHT MADNESS 
100 CENTER OFF LINCOLN WAY IIIII 
••••••••••••••••IN MISHAWAKA ••.....•••••••..•• 
SALE PRICES FROM ••••••••• ...... _...••• 9:00 P.M.to MIDNIGHT 





~ ------~---~--------­
the observer Friday, ~ovember 14, 1975 
Work still in progress 
SBP office is low on accomplishments 
Central Time. A
Suppo::te:~r:s~:a:re:4~~~~~fi~~~t~~~~~~i~~~i-~~
••••••• • i I 'I 1 
-.....Jfft------.J' 
by Mary Reher Senior Staff Report~o. 
Student Government has completed no major action since the beginning of the semester since all the work has been "in process" up till now, according to Ed Byrne, student body president. 
Items such as a calendar change and a new food co-op are still in the planning stage, he noted. He cited the Armory Dance and Student Government's report to the Board of Trustees as his completed ac­tion. 
Byrne structured his election platform on promoting 1) reorganization, 2) communication and 3) representation. 
Reorganization 
Under reorganization, he proposed the SLC, HPC and Student Union form a cabinet of 

Ed Byrne 
Darby to host turkey party 
Darby O'Gill, noted campus with and proprietor of Darby's Place, has announced a Thanksgiving party for students who will be staying on campus during break. The announcement was made through O'Gill's spokesman, Fr. Robert Griffin, University chaplain, who has been delegated the job of raising funds for the project. 
The party is scheduled for Thanksgiving night and will be patterned after last year's highly successful social event. It will feature buffet snacks and most likely a movie for lonely-and hungry-darners. 
Fr. Giffin will be asking for cont­ributions to this worthy project at his masses. He would be glad to have the help of any volunteers to set up the project. The Om­budsman also may be assisting. 
Swim meet 
A triangular meet against Valparaiso university and DePauw University will start off the St. Mary's swim team schedule this year. The meet begins at 11 a.m. 
:  COME wATCH  
•.  NOTRE DAME BEAT PITT  
ti  on THE LIBRARY  
it  BIG SCREENGAME STARTS AT 1:00 P.M. PRE-GAME WARM;_UP: 11-1 BLOODY MARY'S &  
•  SCREWDRIVERS  2 FOR THE PRICE OF 1!! 

....................... 
Student Government which would eliminate duplicate commission's efforts on the same project. 
"I have met with HPC Chairman Elton Johnson and Student Union President Tom Bursic," Byrne stated. "However, we never got to the point of weekly meetings like I wanted last year. When we did, it turned into 'show and tell' since the work had been carried on by each of us alone as routine business. We were just keeping each other up to date since no major policy decision had come up," he said. 
Byrne cited the importance of keeping in close contact with the SLC, HPC and the Student Union. SBVP Tom Fitzgerald intended to attend every HPC meeting, but has not gone to recent meetings because he had mono, Byrne ob­served. As a result, no one from Student Government has attended the last few meetings. Byrne at­tended only the last one because he realized "no one had gone to the meetings since Fitzgerald has been sick." 
Communications 
In last year's platform, Byrne proposed to improve com­munications between Student Government and the students by issuing a newsletter and by meeting regularly with hall representatives to coordinate inter-hall and inter-quad action. 
"We probably will not publish a 
newsletter this year after all," 
Byrne said. "Last year wethought 
it would be a good idea because we 
could not get our message across 
without having misleading articles 
appear in the Observer," he cited. 
"So far this year it has not been a 
problem." 
Discussing hall inter-action, he 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

commented~ "I have not satisfied myself with what we have done in this area," adding later that "I probably should not be so negative about it, though." 
The Social Commission spon­sored the Armory Party and some of the halls have organized smokers, parties and tutoring programs, he noted. 
Representation 
The final section of Byrne's campaign platform, represen­tation, included putting a student on the Board of Trustees. 
"We tried to get a student on the Board, but it was not received well," Byrne said. "I talked to five of the eight Academic Committee members at last spring's meeting and this fall's meeting, but they were opposed to it." 
"They felt a student member would represent just his con­stituents and may not act in the University's best interests. I do not agree," he said. 
"If a student were to get a place on the Board, one vote out of 40 would have little power in decision­making, Byrne observed. But he feels that if the Trustees were to 
agree  to  it,  it  would  be  a  
recognition  of  the  students  as  
competent people.  

"It would be a gesture of good will on the part of the Trustees to add a student member," he said. 
Food co-op 
The original food co-op failed this year, drawing a response of only five to 10 members, he noted. He attributed this to an inability to make the points clear to the students. He has written a letter scheduled to appear in Monday's 
: : GENUINE EAS~ COAST THICK 
• t CRUST STYLE PIZZA (NEVER A
.,
t 1 TASTE OF BISCUIT DOUGH)
i! 
GUARANTEED! 
•• t HOT TO YOUR DOOR EVERY TIME
·t f 
I CALL us AT ·232-7919 : 
-----~~----.....,------· 
Observer outlining plans for an alternative program consisting of fewer members. This new co-op, called a buying club, would need only 40 people and could operate in 
someone's  basement,  Byrne  
stated.  
Calendar  

As to the calendar, Byrne said, "I have not given up hope to change it." No action has yet been taken, but he intends to in the near future. 
Mike Gassman and four other student representatives will compose five different acceptable 
DIR·E<T DiAMOND IMPORTERS ~ 
f-1\V'c-JEWELERS -~ VA . ... SINCE.1917:.
•. 0 
. 
Downtown South Bend •· Town & C~,untry Shopping CE>nter . -~ Concord Mall, Elkhart ·slackmonds, Nilf!s ., · 
··1 fOJ'S fOJ"I fOJ·t fOJ("I fOJ("I fOl I fOl I fOJ:t fOl"l •o• I 
SPECIAL 10% DISCOUNT ON AL MERCHANDISE TO NOTRE DAM & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 
r--------­
1 RADIATOR I 
I n I 
I 1'-.epairing I 
I I
li 
uWE CAN HANDLE THE TOUGH ONES" •• 
SINCE 1922
1 289-s8so I 
• I 
I .II 
I 
I I 
I I 
I I 
I • CLEANING • RECORING I .GAS TANK REPAffiiNG I
I 
"TOUGH GUY" I
I Welding ·Heaters 
I II
SAME DAY SERVICE 
1136 MISHAWAKA
I 
I"IF YOU HAVE A ROUGH TRIP AHEAD I I OF YOU, CHECK OUT THE I I 'TOUGH GUYS'.".
L.----------------------J.
;--­
--JOii0'S---,
' CARRY-OUT!' 
I 
a t 
' 
' 
1..:::: WE DELIVER! t 
calendar schedules to be distributed among students, faculty and administrators as a survey. Tentatively, they will be distributed next Tuesday and collected next Thursday, he said. The top three will then be sub­mitted to the Academic Council if ten of the Council members agree to add it to the agenda. 
Byrne considers a calendar change hopeful since he noted Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell and University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh said the calendar has not yet been "carved in granite". 

Letters to a Lonely 
from his bare tree 
reverend robert griffin 
besides gatsby, weekend uiewing abominable 
There used to be a student at Notre Dame who always seemed to have visited my room just before I got there, or who showed up in my room just seconds after I had left it. I knew he had visited me because of the notes he left; they were always unsigned, and poignant with chiding: "Where were you this evening when I might have talked to you?", he would write; "Life has become unbearable." Or, "I need you tonight. If matters got on like this, I may never face tomorrow. Why don't you let me talk to you?" He never left a name of phone number or a place where he might be reached. But he left me with plenty of guilt, as though I had deliberatly failed him: as though I had purposely walked off to the Huddle or the Grotto, knowing he would come to see me, not giving a damn for his suffering. 
I knew it was not a game or a deceit t•arried on by trickers. I knew those notes were written by a human being full of pain and despair and self-loathing. I even knew that his problem was sexual because several times, at the beginning, he had told meabout himself in letters that were both anonymous and self-revealing; I com­forted him as best I could with words written in this column. Eventually all his correspondence was reduced to terse, little notes, written on scratch paper, tucked under a door or propped up on a chair; and I wondered if he were being deliberately delusive, like a shadow you can't catch up with; never coming when he knew I would be there, because he didn't want to meet me face to face. 
Yet there were hints, subtle and fleeting, as though he were trying to make a detective out of me, or as though he were testing me to see if I really cared enough about him to put all the hints together and eome up with an identity. Once, for example, he gave me his first name and last initial, and I spent half <tn hour reading through the students' dierectory, trying to come up with a match. Either he wasn't listed in that directory, or he withheld information that would have made a difference, because I couldn't recognize his name form the clue he had given. Once he left me what seemed to be an address. I wrote an ambiguous paragraph to that address, asking him .to see me; and mailed it in an envelope m­scribed with the given name and last initial he had furnished. Within a couple of days, the post office returned the letter as non-{ieliverable. 
1-:ventually, over a couple of years, he had furnished me with enough clues for me 
:tv preview: 
The movies on Friday and Saturday nights are abominable. They are: Hustling, a look at the world's oldest profession and starring Lee Remick at 
9:00 on 28; and Sarah T...Portrait of a Tt'f•nag«> Alcoholic in which Linda Blair finds herself fighting a different devil, a show to precede the Miss Teenage America Pageant. Sarah will be on at 8:00 on Saturday, channel 16. 
Two other films, however, to be aired are redemptive, exceptional and worth your viewing time: That's Entertainment and Tht-Great Gatsby can be seen this week. The Great Gatsby will be shown Sunday night at 9 on ch. 28. This 1974, $6 million adaptation of the Fitzgerald classic is a movie spectacular, one probably less faithful to the original text in terms of character and theme than it should be <the point on which the critics argued, you remember), but a film of such sensitive and dynamic proportions that it shouldn't be missed. We can wonder at whether the director and the producer even read the book, but we cannot help but be impressed by a film whose all star cast, overwhelming sets and musical score are in the true Old-Hollywood, (Knock-Them Out of Their Seats) tradition. It stars Robert Redford, Mia Farrow, Karen Black, Sam Waterson and Bruce Dern. 
That's Entertainment can be seen Tuesday at 8 p.m. on Ch. 22, that 1974 salute to the movie musical-magic of Hollywood's yesteryears. And it IS entert­ainment, and a professional conglomeration of tremendous bits 'n pieces <those splendid, shining, show­stopping moments) such as Gene Kelly spouti Sin ' In the Rain or Judy 
to be certain of his status as a student, the department he worked in, and the place he was from. Then one evening, after a Mass at the Grotto, a friend told me of a chap he had met on the fringe of the crowd. The chap had asked, me friend said, whether I was Father Griffin; and from the remarks that he made, I knew that my note-writer had been staking me out. It was weird thinking of him standing there in the Grotto, hearing me, watching me, weighing my words; knowing I could never recognize him as the stranger that was stalking me for healing. One word could have old me who he was, but he never spoke that word. Yet I am con­vinced that he wanted me to know that he 
had been attending that mass. 
In the end, of course, I learned his name. It simply became a matter of putting information together, and then making quiet inquiries. But by then, I felt I must respect his reticence in speaking. There is a sensitivity a priest should not offend. It prevents him from rushing up to a stranger and saying: "Aren't you the fellow who's been hanging notes on my door?" What would the priest answer if the fellow were to reply: "I don't know Father. What did those notes say?"? 
Here, then, was my dilemma: a student gives signs that he wants to talk with me; but he never tells me who he is; he never meets me face to face. He could have called me up; he could have written for an appointment; he could have introduced himself after Mass; he could have waited until he found me home. Instead, he just tea sf's my min<J with hints of his identity. I don't know what he looks like, or whether I sometimes pass him on the quad, or if there are social occasions or casual places where, all unknowing, I catch glimpses of him. And if I should be formally in­troduced to this person whose name, rank, and serial number I am only halfway certain of-how can I be positive that he is the stranger whose trail I have been pursuing? What if I have misread the evidence? 
On the other hand, how could I handle the guilt if I learned of a suicide some morning, and I became convinced that the suicide victim had been crying out to me for help? 
Ultimately, I never confronted the student, but I never heard of his suicide, either. But up to the end, there were still notes--angry, heart-breaking, and full of abuse: "Where were you last evening? I 

Entertainment Is In store for television viewing this week, as That's En­tertainment and The Great Gatsby will be shown. 
e at three in the morning, and you were asleep. I thought you were the chaplain who kept the night watch. I could have talked to you, but you were sleeping. Maybe you •weren't sleeping; maybe you JUst wouldn't answer the door. It doesn't matter. I'm not worth your time. Maybe it will beoversoon for me. Save yourself for the kids who are worth bothering with." 
It may have been careless, but I never did try to confront the guy. I had to be sure he wanted to talk to me. He was playing a game of pretending that he never found me in. I didn't know why, but I tried clumsily 
QOCQQCCOCOCCCQQCaGOCCCCOCCOOOCOOOOOODOODDDOOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOCOOO 
...a student wants to talk to me, neuer tells me who he is, neuer meets me face to face ... 
to guess. Sometimes when we pray and our prayers go unanswered, I thought to myself, we are afraid thereis nobody in the heavens listening no Presence in the tabernacle that c~res about us; and our mood is full of fear. The student who left me notes knew that I was real enough. It wasn't my existence he questioned, but my availability to him, and it gave him someone definite to be angry with, someone specific to blame. Since Ahab couldn' harpoon God, a critic has said, he tried to kill the Great, White Whale. Since my student couldn't attack God directly as the source of his suffering, he could attack me for his suffering as one, divinely delegated, who could have helped him, but didn't try. If he had applied to me for therapy, and I, doing my best, had failed him, hewouldstill have his problem, but he would have lost his right to be angry. He would have no one left to rage against. I'm not sure how he would have handled the difficulty of losing such a God-symbol as the chaplain, whom he could hold locally unaccountable and immediately responsible for the seeming delinquincies fo God. 
I never contacted the student. Maybe it was shabby logic masking cowardice that prevented me; maybe it was the instinct of the faith worker who comes up lucky. But one.September, there were no more notes on the door, and I knew that my angry young man had taken his degree. 
I wish I could offer you an end to this 
Garland doing Over the Rainbow and Get 
Happy. Esther Williams performs her swimming pool acrobatics; Jimmy Stewart and Clark Gable are shown in their only singing roles ever; and the whole thing is tied together with discussions by Astaire, Mennelli, Taylor and Kelly. On the whole, it is no done as well as it probably could have been <In­deed it seems an impossible task in the first place), but Jack Haley Jr. (Liza's hubby and the son of the brainless scarecrow) has done an admirable job. Recommended viewing. 
Other films this week include Guilty or Innocent: The Sam Sheppard Murder Case with George Peppard starring as the Cleveland Osteopath convicted of killing his wife, on Monday night at 8:00on Ch. 16. Raquel Welch portrays a woman seeking revenge for the murder of her husband by three bank robbers in Hannie Caulder Thursday at 9 on 22. 
The Classic Theatre presentation this week is Henrik Ibsen's Hedda Gabler at 9 
p.m. Thursday on 34. This 1890 portrait of a Lady seekinll to rid herself of the monotony of her life stars Janet Suzman. 
The Masterpiece Theatre begins a new series of ·show on this week, this one of­fering the life of George Sane and starring story; but some stories, I guess, are still being lived. If I had talked to this student, I'm not sure I could have helped him. God has no explanation except his own truth, and the truth of God's being is a mystery beyond out thought and language. At the heart of the mystery, there is a love we must describe in metaphors. It is a love that searches for us, as a shepherd goes in search of a lamb that is lost. It is a love that prepares a place for us, as in a mansion awaiting the return of the prodigal son. It is a love that comforts us, as when a father gathers children who have strayed or as when a mother hen 
tom o'neil 
Rosemary Harris in Notorious Woman 
<Sunday, 9 p.m. on 34). 
This is the first of a seven part series by the BBC scoping the life of that 19th Cent­ury romantic novelist and mistress of Chopin. Her real name, of course, was Aurore Dupin. 
Specials 
Whales will be the subject of an hour­long documentary to be seen tonight on 22 at 8:00. Orson Wells will narrate this studv of the deep-sea, "magnificent monster," his mating habits and other methods of existence. a MUST for Cousteau-adicts and aspiring oceanographers. The anonymously produced cave paintings of Baja Califronia will be the subject of "Mystery Murals at 9 Sunday on 34. Lastly, Mac Davis will emcee the Miss T­eenage America Contest on Ch. 16 
...
Saturday at 10. Sports 
The NFL line-up for Sunday is as follows: The Packers against the tions at 1p.m. on 22; the Chiefs vs. the Steelers at 1 
p.m. 
on 16; and the Bears meet tht>49ers at 4 

p.m. 
on 22. Monday Night Football will feature the Bills against the Bengals (Ch. 28, at 9 p.m.). 


gathers chicks under her wings. It is a love. that suffers for us, as when c~m­pa~s10nate hands ~ccept the mark of ,naJls. It 1s a love that d1es for us, as God s Son has already died, and the reality of the Cross beggars the need of using other images. 
I wish I could have been in my room at the times when my note-wroter called. But the mystery is not he chaplain's elusiveness, but in the Lord's elusiveness. That a God who loves us so much, should seem so often in hiding is a mystery that should make all of us want to leave notes of complaint on the Deity's door ... unless, of course, it is we who are playing gamesof hide and seek that will keep us from ever 
beingat peace with ourselves. 
I got a Christmas card from my student friend last year. It was unsigned, of course, but I recognized the writng that scratched out the printed versesforangelic messages and scrawled in stanzas of Ferlinghetti 's poem : "Christ climbed down-from His baretree-this year-and ran away to where-no fat handshaking stranger-... went around passing himself off-as some sort of North Pole sain­t ... bearing sacks of Humble Gifts-from Saks Fifth Avenue-for everybody's imagined Christ child ... " 
The words fat, handshaking stranger were underlined in red ink. I think there is a message there intended for me. I've gotten this chap's messages before. 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••a 
~6~--~t~h~e~~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r________~F~ri=day, November 14, 1975 
: TIMM PARTY STORE : 
•OPEN : MON-SAT 9am-11pm •
Reactions vary regarding • •
: SUNDAY 12noon -1 1 pm • COLD BEER,WINE, LIQUOR,
UN Resolution on Zionism • • •• 
by Kathy Mills General Assembly for approving t­He state the Senate resolution to : GORMET FOODS • Senior Staff Reporter he Zionism resolution. reassess the United States' further Secretary of State Henry A. participation in the U.N. is the :3114S.11 St. NILES, MICHIGAN: 
Notre Dame's president and faculty members have reacted differently to the recent!)'! passed United Resolutions resolution equating Zionism with racism. 
"It's silly. It's the kind of thing that can destroy the U.N. by politicizing it," stated Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, University president. 
Hesburgh added the resolution puts up a "dichotomy between the Third and Fourt Worlds." 
·'They should stop picking on the Jews." he said. 
Hesburgh said he thinks the l'nited States will take action demonstrating opposition to the resolution. 
"We'll probably stop some of the programs in the United Nations," he noted. "It's too bad, because they're good programs." 
He added he does not think the United States will withdraw from the United Nations. 
Isolation and Exile 
Rabbi Elliot D. Rosenstock, assistant professor of theology, remarked he is "sad" about the resolution. 
"It's the same story all over again -international exile," he stated. Rosen stock also termed the resolution a "threat to world peace." 
"I hope the U.S. and Israel don't pull out of the U.N.," he continued. "That's what the Arab states want, so they can do what they want." 
Referring to the Jewish people 
he knows, Rosenstock commented, 
''Everyone is upset. There is a 
sense of isolation." 
He added the people are grateful 
for the support the western 
European countries and America 
have shown. 
He noted the resolution has had 
some positive effects "It has 
united the world Jewish com­
munity," he pointed out, "and I am 
happy there has been no dissent on 
theAmerican stand." 
U.S. Leaders React 
Kissinger said the vote "has cert­ainly added to tensions and to the rift and distrust" in the Middle East. 
Prof. Donald P. Kommers of the Department of Government and International Studies stated, "To equate Zionism with racism is mockery and reduces the concepts of racism to meaninglessness." 
Kommers called the resolution a symbol. 
He said it will not amount to much in the long run, if it is ignored by the United States. He added he thinks the U.S. will ignore the resolution. 
Peri E. Arnold, assistant professor of government, said the resolution is wrong. "It reflects the existing ideological majority of the United Nations," he pointed out. "You can't say the majority vote means they all agree," he went on. "There is a highly politicized, fairly ideological coalition of worlds." 
Arnold said he would be sur­
prised if the United States reacts 
with financial cutbacks. "There 
will be some," he added, "but they 
will be small, symbolic ones." 
He stated the Unitee States 
should use words instead of 
financial power to indicate op­
position to the resolution. "But we 
should make it clear that this 
country opposes it," he noted. 
Impact on Domestic Policy 
713 E. LaSalle Tues., Wed., Fri. & Sat. 
beginning of the process of 
: ..BIGGEST LITTLE :
developing the richness of ethnic 
and cultural variety in the U.S. • .LIOUOR SIORE IN MTr.HTC:.AN.. •
•·.•:•• • • • • • • .....a•.,•••~ i • • • ••• 
"The surfacing of the question will surface domestic understanding of racism." 
m~r Qtnlnnial 
The Senate passed this resolution Tuesday by voice vote 
'ancukr ~nu.ar 
~tgwithout dissent. The bipartisan resolution, introduced by Republican Leader Hugh Scott, 
"Enjoy a snack or dinner"
directs the Senate Foreign Relat­
~:::::~:::::::·:::;:::::::::::::;:::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::w
ions and House International R­
:;:; 35 Vi!rieties of Pancakes :::
lations committees to begin im­
}Ch1ck0n Steak Sandwiches )
mediate hearings "to reassess further participation in the United 
\Friday Nites: Perch Dinners ? 
Nations General Assembly." 
:~:;:;:;:;:;::;;.;:;:;:;.;-:-:·:-!•:·:·:;:·:::;:::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:::;:;:;:;.;:;.;:::iii 
Your Hoc,l
U.S. 31 (OixiewCly) North
A similar resolution was in­
troduced in the House. However, 
(Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards, NO '5(). 
Rep. Robert Kastenmier, D-Wis., 
blocked immediate consideration by asking for clarification as to 
SPECIAl WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR 
whether it suggested. the U.S. wit­
NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS
hdraw from the U.N. as a whole. 
$695 $895
The measure was later 
Single occupancy Double occupancy
reintroduced without a call for hearings on U.S. participation assembly participation. This 
No Notre Dame identification required, just 
mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. except home football game weekends. 
resolution was adopted 384 to 0. 
The United Ntions General Assembly passed the Zionism 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
resolution Monday night by a vote 
50520 U.S. 31 North
of 72 to 35 with 32 abstentions and 
South Bend, Indiana 46637
three nations absent. 
(219) 272-7555
Zionism is the movement for a national Jewish homeland in 
3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Palestine. Under the religious nat­
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones.
ion of "ingathering of tribes," .Jews automatically become cit­
Send this ad to your parents
izens upon arrival in Israel. 
FIRST SHOP OF ITS KIND IN INDIANA 
• SALES PROMOTIONAL PRODUCTS • CLYDESDALE BUSCH® MICHELOB® A&Eagle 
THOUSANDS OF ITEMS TO CHOOSE FROM: 
WALL PLAQUES PUB MIRRORS "BUD" TELEPHONES FURNITURE BEACH TOWELS COOLERS SHEETS & PILLOW CASES SKI CAPS ·SCARVES • T-SHIRTS TIFFANY LAMPS • ASH TRAYS 
PLAYING CARDS· TOTE BAGS SKI SWEATERS • HATS
l 
SALT & PEPPER SHAKERS BEAN BAG CHAIRS
earu :~ _, 
HASSOCKS • LAMPS ~· CJ WOMEN'S SLACKS 
MEN'S SLACKS SHIRTS ·JACKETS CHAIRS • MUGS ICE CHESTS GLASSWARES 
FOOTBALLS FLASHLIGHTS COASTERS POOL CUES KEY RINGS BANKS • STEINS LIGHTERS PILLOWS • RUGS ® CARD TABLES SERVING TRAYS WALL CLOCKS CAN HOLDERS NAPKINS· • • PEWTER MUGS AND MANY SWEAT SHIRTS MORE ITEMS
~oriU~
BOTTLE OPENERS FROM WHICH 
BELTS • • • TO CHOOSE
ltd. 
100 CENTER COMPLEX MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46544 259·0886 
10:00 to 9:00 DAILY SUNDAYS 12:00 to 6:00 

..
To gather calendar opinions 
Academic Commission formulates survey 
by Cathy Nolan 
Staff Reporter 
The Academic Commission is continuing efforts to formulate an alternate calendar for the 1976-77 school year. 
The commission aims to present a proposal to the Academic Council whic reflects the views of the students, faculty and ad­ministration. 
A St. Mary's student took an independent survey at dinner last night on possible academic calendars, according to a St. Mary's senior. Results of this survey are not in yet. 
Dissatisfaction with this year's calendaraswellas the tentative '76­'77 calendar has been expressed by students, faculty and ad­ministration. 
Under the tentative schedule, 
classes will begin Sept. 8. There 
will be one break during the 
Thanksgiving holiday. 
Also included in this calendar 
are a Saturday night class and 
final exams past Dec. 20. No 
provision has been made for a presented to the Academic Council. 
"We feel that if this proposal is 
1 Mile North of NOTRE 
Just South of NORTH VILLAGE 
MIDNITE SPECIAL! Fri. -Sat. 
,., ~ESUS CHRIST 
SUPERSTAR'' 
r.;"1 ~Giant Rock Cast! 
~ ~And at REDUCED PRICES! 
Mike Gassman 
o~:;;~r~~~~kf*M***A**K**E**r**H**I-*s**************l 
CLEVELAND AP-A Navy plane t · * found what may be the wreckage * CHRlSTMAS A * 
of the ore~carrier Edmund. Fit-* : ~f:;~·:·::;~~ss~~kL~~~d~~~r\~~: ttTENNIS XMAS'' t w1th 29 crew-men aboard, U.S * * Coast Guard officials said Thur-cGIVE THAT SOMEONE SPECIAL * sd~h~ crew of the Navy plane* A ''SPORTING''GIFT THAT WILL * sp tted debris and a slight oil slick * Th~rsday some 1.8 miles from the "SERVE LOVE" ALL YEAR 'ROUND: 
last reported position of the Fit­zgerald ~bout .13 miles west of 
spENI ' s :
Coppermme Pomt. A Coast Guard spokesman in * Cleveland said confirmation would * 
1 
be attempted Fr~day through the PRO SHOP ** 
use of sonar eqmpment. ~ The spokesman said the vessal * * may lie i.n about 370 feet of water. * 321 SOUTH NOTRE DAME ** 
The Fitzgerald was last heard * from Monday night when it was~· ~~TIJ ~~till 233 8712 : 
about 20 m~les north of Michipa'l ~ t Ml •• J a J t 14ulnfiiJiiJ1ul••l•.,..
Up r Pemnsula. e ~ 
WANTED 
Need ride to Syracuse NY area, Friday Nov. 21. Call 6804. 
1 need a ride to Clnn. or Dayton area Tuesday 25. Ann 8803. 
Call 291·1887 about driving new Granada to Manchester, Missouri around Dec. 20th; couple needs driver. All expenses . references. 
Need ride to Cincinnati Nov. 14. Will share driving and expenses; 4 53-47. 
Need ride to Louisville for Thanksgiving break, Nov. 24 or Nov. 25. Call Carol 6834. 
Need ride to Toledo this Friday. Call Peggy 6661. 
Need riders to Pittsburgh for Thanksgiving; leaving Nov. ll. 
Bill 1653. 
Must have 6 main floor tlx for Aerosmlth. Will pay extra. Call sue 4888. 
Need ride to DC or Delaware area Friday Nov. 21. Call Tom 1380. 
NOTICES 
Need a tune-up? You buy the parts, 1 will Install plugs, points, con­denser and adlust your timing for SB. Very Experienced. Call Bob 11610. 
study day either, according to Mike Gassman, academic com­missioner. 
The Academic Commission has worked in conjunction with the Sociology Department to draw up a simple, but scientific survey as a means of gathering the opinions of the students. 
The commission has also sent a letter to ofer 200 universities and colleges, inquiring about calendar schedules. The commission will use this information as a basis of comparison to help develop a feasible calendar for Notre Dame. 
The survey will be conducted throught the halls. "The survey will be distributed at the HPC meeting on Tuesday, Nov. 18. We are asking the hall presidents to then distribute the surveys to dorm residents," stated Gassman. "We want to have a total student response, not just a representative view." 
On the basis of this survey, the commission will work out a proposal for the 76-77 academic calendar, which will then be 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
The Ultimate in Comfort Jasper pants only $10 at Jennifer's .. now at Scottsdale, upper level, across from Scotch Mist. 
JEWELRY-33 PERCENT OFF 
turquoise,  sterling,  coral  and  
diamond  engagement  sets.  234­ 
7063.  

MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20 ­S150 1 day waiting period; 1 per­cent interest Due in 30 days LaFortune basement M-F 11:15­12:15 
Budapest Night 1989 Pralrle Ave. Only Hungarian restaurant In Michiana area. Open 5:00 •· ­
10:00 Tues. thru Sat. Serving American dinners but specializing In Hungarian entrees. Serving beer and imported wines. For reservations call 234·2332. 
BOOK SHOP. 30,000 Books and Prints. Ralph A. Casperson Books. 1303 Niles-Buchanan Road, Niles. Hours Wed. DSat. Sun. 9 to 7 or chance. 
Typing S.35 a page. Call Dan 272­5549. 
Accurate, ~,fast typing. Call Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. 
USED BOOKS AND PAPER­
BACKS Large stock of general reading material and o.p. books. Bring this ad and receive on free paperback wtth any $1.00 purchase. The 
Bookstack 112 W. Lexington liilkhart, I A. 
ARCHITECTURE STUDENTS present BEAUX ARTS BALL saturday november 15 MUSIC BY STRATUS 10pm to Jam TICKETS AVAILABLE IN AR­CHITECTURE LIBRARY single 
2.50 couple 5.00 REFRESH· MENTS AVAILABLE 
Pregnant and didn't mean to be? Call Birthright. 288-7640. 
A course of action .. Air Force ROTC. If you,ve got two academic years remaining in school (graduate or undergraduate) look Into our AFROTC programs. It's one way of planning for a good future. Get all the details today. Contact Capt. M.L. Stockdale 283· 6635. 
Will do typing, experienced. Term papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233· 8512. 
Will do typing In my home. Call 
(616) 699-5704 Ask for Deb. 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: one Volt football South Dining ,-tiall last THURSDAY. Call 1600. Reward. 
Found: set of keys In red leather case outside Library Nov. 5; Call 
Butch 1628 to claim. 
FOR RENT 
Rent my upstairs. Near sso mo. 233-1329. Keep tryl_l)g. 
presented to the council with the strong, united backing of the students and faculty, there is a greater chance for its acceptance by the council,",said Gassman. 
The commission also wishes to establish a set of guidelines for making a calendar to suffice for an extended period of time, rather than just one year. 
"Nobody worried last year about the date of Labor Day in 1976. They did not seem to realize that Labor Day was going to be much later," stated Gassman. "We (the Academic Commission ) have looked to the future, not just next year." 
When asked if any plans had been made to reschedule the National Men's Shepherd's Con­ference, Aug 24-28, 1976, Gassman 
' said that this option was being considered. 
The conference should not be given priority over the calendar, stated Gassman. "There is no need for the council to concern itself with the scheduling of the conference." 
"I think we are doing the best we can. We have done our homework. We have investigated and our efforts are at a maximum," said happen. Once we have submitted Gassman. "We have been working our proposal, it is thedecision:ofthe on the calendar proposal all Academic Council as to whether or semester. We cannot be overly not any schedule changes will be optimistic or pessimistic. It is made," the commissioner con­difficult to speculate what will eluded. 
---------~-------,
1~'~"~1 $
II I I I IJ  South A-78 C-78 C-78 E-78  Bend lnd 46617 SNOW TIRES G-78 13 $28.44 J-60 13 $29.92 F-78 14 $30.61 G·78 14 $32.07 G-78  14 15 15 15 15  $3791 $30.09 $33.53 $35.10 $38.24  III II  
,.  F-78  14  $33.53  J_78  15  539.65  
I  G-78  14  $34-97  L 78  15  $40.82  
I  PLUS FEDERAL TAX  

I 
MOUN riNG FREE AND FREE RE­
MOUNTING IN SPRING 
I 
I FREE 3 MONTH TOWING THRU STANDARD OIL COMPANY 
fin lnvitatiort 
To Watcft 
fi Special Merv Griffirt Show 

with Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, the founder of the world wide Transcendental Meditation program, and t;pecial guests Clint Eastwood, Mary 1j;ler Moore, Congressman Richard Nolan and Dr. Bernard Glueck 
Merv and his guests will explore with Maharishi the experience of living a l!Jlppy, productive, fulfilled _life. 
TONIGHT 
WFLD CHICAGO CHANNEL 32 OR CABLE CHANNEL 7 FRI., NOV. 14, 9 PM Introductory Lecture on the TM program 
N.D. -L!BRARYAUDITORIUM TUES., NOV. 18, 7:3~ PM 
2nd semester student house. Very close to campus. 2 Bedroom, paneled. All new kitchen ap. pllances & washer. Rent negotiable. Call Marty at 287-5113. 
Two female housemates wanted to share 3-bedroom house Im­mediately and-or next semester. 2'12 blocks from Angela.ND In­tersection. Call 289-4303 between Sp.m. and 10p.m. 
One bedroom apartment m modern complex to sublet. Call 283111 283-7446 or 233-6561. 
PERSONALS 
Debbie K., A chance Isn't much to ask. I take very IItie room. Love, Addict. 
KATHOID WOMAN, OF THE THIRD KATHOLITHIC PERIOD·­HERE'S 22 PLASTIC FORKS FOR YOUR BIRTHDAY. 
BETHEDRINE (it's not my lob ­
(IT'S NOT MY JOB-WARDOIDJ 
AHention all you Domers going to 
the PiH gamel Gary J. Caruso, Class of '73 Is throwing a party at 9:30 pm Sat. 
after the game on the 9th floor of Tower B for only Sl. Good things to drink & plenty girls & guys dying to meet a real Domer. All are welcome! 
Watch for the Get-Down Hoe . Down! 
41!2, Please get her In before 6 this weekend! Pippi 
Vote for your roommate as the biggest turkey on campus. 
Hi(gh) Lorraine? Happy B·D ··See you tonight Bongo & "My Brother Leo" 
I once knew a girl •. named 
Lorraine 
Who will never be quite the same 
In my room tonight 
She'll give up her fight 
And NO will know of her fame 
Happy 19th 
Guess Who 
.Joe Gralf lu·st loves to roll the word "WOODY" off his tongue. Ask him, and he'll do It for you. Do It 
today I 
B.B.-­
What Is an Outburst doing In an Observer? Please explain In an Indigenous manner. 
Ben F. 
The Classifieds Get Results 
.. 
+ 
... 
----------~ ---­
~s~__~t~h~e~~o~b~s~e~r_v~e~r________~F~r=id~a~y,~November~1975 
" 
Ir~E~~. going after Pitt, bo~~~:~:.~~!~~~~ 

Rick Slager will try to duplicate last week's offensive performance while the Irish defense will have few days and.,. the feeling is that a
anything away from them. But I 
its hands full with Pitt's Tony Dorsett tomorrow in Pitt Stadium. win tomorrow will insure a Cotton
truly believe this team is one of 
college history to rush for three Walker is a perfect complement Bowl bid for the Irish.
game Tom Clements scored onaimmense pride and character. I 
consecutive 1000 plus seasons. In to Dorsett. In nine games, the 5-9, "I don't even want to think about know we have the capbilities to three-yard run to make the score 1973, Dorsett hulled his way for 209 180 pound fullback has gained an a bowl," Devine countered. "My14-10. Pitt fought back and thecome back." 
game ended wit a Pitt pass floati­yards versus the Irish, the most impressive 639 yards, more than job is to prepare for Pitt and the "Pitt is coming off a tough loss," ng dead at the goalline. ever by a running back against any Notre Dame rusher. bowl decision is up to the athletic Notre Dame Coach Dan Devine 
Notre Dame. Like Devine, Majors has been department officials." 
said. "Our people tell me the Pitt­One name has dominated Pitt­
"When you talk about Pitt," alternating his quarterbacks, Tomorrow's game will be 
West Virginia game was one of the sburgh football for the last two and Devine continued, "the first thing choosing between junior Robert telecast back to South Bend live on most physical games they have a half years and his initials are that enters your mindis Dorsett, Haygood and sophomore Matt WNDU television, Channel16. Theaptly "TD". l<,or Tony Dorsett,seen. Last year Pitt came close to but don't let anyone tell you Elliot Cavanaugh. Haywood directed game will once again be broadcast beating us. We actually scored the though only a juni'lr, is already a Walker doesn't know how to run Pitt's first seven games of­on the Mutal Network to pointswinning touchdown with less than legend in the Pittsburgh circles. 
the ball either." fensively before suffering a hip around the nation. 
three minutes left. They have the So far this seaosn, Dorsett has same key personel back from that netted 1,116 yards and 10 touch­team." downs, while averaging 124 yards In the 11 year reign by the Irish, per contest. As a freshman, the 
leers lace Michigan at home
only the 1964 game provided a amazing speedster gained 1586 closer margin of victory for Notre yards and last year, even though Dame than last year's squeaker. he missed a contest, Dorsett 
by Tom Kruczek one team in the country, the Wolves series. The first two lines
The score was tied 7-7 at the half totaled 1004 yards. He is only the The Irish hockey team will en­Michigan Wolverines in a pair of were unaffected with the Walshand with 2:49 remaining in the sixth runner in NCAA major tertain this weekend the number games Friday and Saturday night. line number one and Don Fairholm The Irish are coming off a suc­centering between Allen Karsnia cessful series at Colorado College, and Kevin Nugent on the second winning twice 9-7 and 7-5 to even up line. their season mark at 2-2, while the 
The third line will be centered byWolves also won over the weekend, Mark Olive, with Dave Howe on his
The Irish Eye 
downing North Dakota 11-1 and 5-4 left and Ray Johnson on his right. in overtime, in their first game of 
Freshman Steve Schneider, who
===========================================:=:=:=:========================:================================================================================================================· 
Football picks 
the regular season. 
had several good turns on the icP.
Last week was a week of upsets which really going to win tomorrow, but you can't always trust The Irish are looking to tnis last week, will start at centerupset very few. At least not around Notre Dame. him. His team lost six turnovers in the second half weekend with optimism, especially between Tim Byers and JimAny Irish fan was glad to see Oklahoma get last week, and has had trouble with mistakes all in light of the offensive production Augustine.
crushed by Kansas, finally getting on-the-field season. But if they want Nebraska bad enough, last weekend. "I'm very pleased Michigan will bring here to little
punishment for their off-the-field tactics. The they'll know theyhave to win this one. Sooners by with the teams performance at Ireland an awesome scoring
Sooners will have to beat Nebraska (who remained 14. at­
Colorado College, and I'm doubly tack. Smith was wary of this andundefeated) to recapture their level of supremacy. Tennessee at Mississippi: Ole Miss tied Auburn last 
pleased with the wins coming on the team ahs been working
USC's last-second loss to Stanford was no heart-week, but that doesn't mean much now. The on 
the road," Coach Charles (Lefty) defense all week. "Their scoring is break to ND fans. At least it proves John McKays' Volunteers seem to have recovered from their loss Smith pointed out. "Also con­a lot of concern for us, and we neednot infallible against everyone. Penn State has even to North Texas State (that's right) and tailback sidering the altitude there, I'm
less of a following o so their 15-14 loss to North Stanley Morgan should power them by the Rebels. to play better defense than last 
very pleased to see that the team week or we'll be in trouble."
Carolina State was taken in good grace. Florida Tennessee by 10. 
was in good enough shape to take Smith also showed concern frowas knocked off their clud and out of the Top Ten by Texas A&M at Rice: Flaky Owl coach Al Conover is 
it." 
the Wolves general team balance.
losing 10-7 to Georgia. in way over his head now. The Aggies are bowl-Smith was also happy with the 
In the four games they haveBut the two big teams, Michigan and Ohio State hungry and don't have time for Conover's antics. 
super production line of Clark 
played, including a split with thehad not trouble notching victories and await only With the number one defense in the country, A&M 
Hamilton, Brain Walsh and Alex U.S. Olympic team, winger Pat
next weekend. will stop Rice cold. Aggies by 20. 
Pirus and their nine goal perfor­
Here are the Irish Eye's picks for this week: · Texas Christian at Texas: If you believed last Hughes is the leading scorer with 
mance over the weeeknd. "It's
year's score, 81-16, then you'll beleive anything this five goals and three assists. Doug
Notre Dame at Pitt: The Panthers will quickly find hard to say why they did so much
year. And it may happen. Longhorns by 35. Lindskog, has 4 goals and three 
out that you can't keep running at a healthy Irish better at C.C.," Smith said. "They
Northwestern at Michigan State: State has had t­assists, while Angie Moretto, who 
defense, even if you do have the spectacular Tony probably were facing a better goal
heir troubles lately, even with Indiana last week. sometimes likes to score, 
Dorsett carrying the ball. Pitt will be up a creek if tender at Michigan State the
They had six turnovers against the Hoosiers and sometimes like to hit and does a lot 
they can't get a passing game going, and if the weekend before <Dave Versical>,
Charlie Baggett didn't finishe the game. North­of standing around, has two goals
revitalized Irish offense can keep their momentum, yet sometimes you do it and
western showed great vulnerability to the pass last and five assists and 16 minutes in 
ND should have itself a bowl bid Saturday evening. sometimes you don't. They were
Saturday against Minnesota, but the Spartans can't penalties. 
Irish by 10. shooting better at Colorado, but the
pass. They should win a close one on their defense. Goal tending again for Michigan 
California at Air Force: The Bears are shooting for State by 7. line overall played better the week will be Robbie Moore. Smith the Rose Bowl, and aren't going to let Air Force be before at State, so it's just hard to
Indiana at Wisconsin: Now here's a classic for declares him completley fit and 
the ones to stp them. If they aren't looking ahead to say."
you. All IU has to look forward to is basketball ready for the season, following a 
next week's game with Stanford, then Joe Roth and Smith was handed some bad
season. The Badgers meanwhile, were humiliated disappointing year, coming off a 
Chuck Muncie should have no problem racking up news early Friday afternoon,
by Iowa last week. It's the kind of game that makes knee injury which kept him out of 
points. California by 17. Wayne Duke cringe. Badgers by 6. which will cause a general shakeup half of the season. He has tended Kentucky at Florida: Last year the Wildcats killed on the lines. Geoff Collier, while
Michigan at Illinois: It was only 14-6last year, and the cage in both games against
Florida, but the Gator attack, when it's at full blast, trying to close window in his
Illinois can be surprising. But mostly they're going North Dakeota, allowing 5 goals,
is explosive. Georgia proved you can tame Florida, Pangborn room, shattered the
to be looking at Gordon Bell flying by them all af­while rejecting 60 shots. Moore 
but Kentucky won't. Gators by 13. ternoon the get for window, severing his little finger,. was All-American
as Wolverines ready the an his 
North Carolina State at Duke: State only has to Smith said that the doctors
Buckeyes next week. Michigan by 17. sophomore year.
travel 40 minutes to this one, so they won't be in­probably will be able to save the The Irish will surely have their
.. Minnesota at Ohio State: If the Gophers can keep
timidated by a partisan Blue Devil crowd. Or by the finger if they don't · run into
the ball away from Archie Griffin and the Buckeye work cut out for them this weekend. 
Blue Devils. TheWolfpackts high after knocking off problems with the severed nerves. They will be facing their toughest
offense for awhile, then Tony Dungy, the Big Ten's
Penn State last week, so they should win by 10. If all goes well with the surgery,
leading passer, might surprise Woody Hayes with opposition of the season so far, and 
Georgia Tech at Navy: It's offense vs. defense in t­Collier is expected to have a cast the big question has to be defense. 
tht new innovation, the forward pass. Dungy might
his one with Tech's wishbone going against the on his hand for at least six weeks Michigan scored 16 times last
keep the Gopher's close, but he won't have the ball
Middies' tough "D". The Yellow Jackets were enough to win. Buckeyes by 10. and should . be back playing weekend, and the Irish let in 12 weak on defnese however, and Navy has a respect­sometime around the first of the
Upset of the Week: Washington over USC: The scores, so the rlefense will have to 
able offense. Navy became the first Irish opponent year.
Huskies are 4-5, but their pre-Pac-8 schedule in­play much better. The offense 
to win the week after they played ND, and they The other Irish injury is to Terry
cluded Arizona St. Alabama and Texas. They've showed signs of coming to life 
should stop Tech from becoming the second. Fairholm. The doctors as of yet
looked good lately, and the game is in Seattle. again last week, so if the defense 
Middies by 6. are unsure of what the problem is, can effectivley stop the Wolves
Southern Cal is a broken team right now, and needs 
Colorado at Kansas: The Jayhawks can hardly help and he will be out for a minimum of offense, look for two Irish wins.
time to get it together again. Washington may not 
but suffer a letdown after toppling Oklahoma last give it to them. Huskies by 6. one mor.. week and could be out Game times for both nights is 7:30 
.... week, and they're inconsistent enough to drop this longer. to p.m. at the ACC with tickets on one to the Buffaloes. Colorado by 7. Last week, 10-5 for .666 per cent. Season 99-32 for Due yo the injuries, Smith sale for $1.50 for .students with Oklahoma at Missouri: Barry ~witzer says he's .755 per cent. juggled the lines a bit for the ID's and $3 for adults. 

