

However she would walk in a group job. You can'tcxpect them to be
SLC to concentrate efforts 
When traveling at night between if there was no other alternatives. t•verywhcre at once." Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, 
Slw added that once an escortWilson said "through a personal
SMC students are inclined to use 
drove out to Scottsdale Mall to pickt•xperience which dealt with a

on COUL report during '75 
lhe shuttle or escort service over 
up her roommate.
potential rape, I found that the St. 
walking, according to a random

Stu• <·an•)· dt>alt in tht• past with such issues as Mary's security force was totally LaCava said the security force
poll of Saint Mary's students.­

Starr Ht•purh·r dl'!Prmining library hours during incompetent." Wilson added that shoud concentrate less on trivial
The poll also showed that SMC 

AI thl' first nwPting of the Student l'xam:-;, l'Stablishing student she would use the escort service things and more on how to protect
students were not likely to

Life ('ouncil this year, Chairperson loungt•s, and regulating traffic on "if I thought I'd get a response. the campus and the college. "They
hitch hike at night either.

Ed Hvrrw said the organization campus. ··campus Life deals with They take so long to get there." worry more about the parking
According to a St. Mary's

will b;;se most of its discussion this Ihe pleasant things of this campus-Marv Ann Domaszek, a junior, spaces than weird guys walking
security spokesman, the number of 

~ t•ar on tht• report prepared by the to make them more pleasant," has used the escort service twice around the campus," LaCava said. 
requests for escorts has increased

('ommittt•e on Undergraduate Life noted Brother Just Paczesny, Vice­and said it was not bad waiting, Wilson echoed these ob­
since stories about alleged rapes

( ( '()lJLl. l'n•sident for Student Affairs. although it took about twenty-five servations. She said ther should be 
have been published. The guard­

"Wt• are concerned right now The Off Campus and Community minutes. a "shift in focus of priorities. The
house gets an average of four

with :-;tructuring committees to Ht>lations group is concerned St. Mary's security is thoroughly
calls a night, usually from girls Domaszek said it was not

dPal with current issues on cam­withstudying the pros and cons of obsessed with traffic tickets."
who have missed the last shuttle necessarily due to the allegedpus,.. Byrne told the meeting. 

off-campus living and the bus fromNotre'Jame to St. Mary's. rapes that she would not walk by Wilson said they should be more 
"Wt•'vt• got a lot of issues that need l'l'sponsibilities of off-campus "There's no way I would walk -concerned with the security of the
herself. "I would never walk alone 

to hl' actt•d on right away." students in the community. students.
no way." said Kathy Groskoph, a at night at home either," she said.
The< 'OlJL report, which was The Hules and Regulations' sophomore at St. Mary's. Although Junior Meg McManus said she Lawlor disagreed, saying the ~ubmittl'd to the University Board Committee sets up guidelines for she has never used the escort ser­has walked alone once this year. security force and the escortof Trustees last May, dealt with thl' .Judicial and Appeals Boards, vice, she has friends who have She wasn't walking from Notre service are good. She added,sl'veral aspects of student life and will review the hall J-board called an escort after the shuttle Dame, but said she would have though, that she thought therewhich coml' under the jurisdiction systl'm. Topics such as alchohol had stopped. called an escort if she'd been on might be door-to-door service since of the SLC. "The COUI. report will regulations come under study in Sophomore Marmi Lawlor sa1d campus. many students must still walk to Pventually filter down into our this committee. she walked several times last McManus is "really ap-the Notre Dame circle and from the t·ommittees," SLC member Prof. 

vear. Lawlor said the stories about 

Planning and Policy deals with('arole Moore nott>d. 
long-tt'rm university concerns, as i·ape "wouldn't deter me, if I was ~The~ worr~ more aboutThe standing committees which 
with a group of girls. But I would 

well as campus-wide studies of
tlw SLC voted to retain from past never walk alone."
current interest. Campus lighting, 
the parking spaces than weird guys

years are: Campus Life, Off She said that after the rape
eoed housing, and parietal regula ­
Campus and Community stories, her friends at St. Mary's
tionsare some of the issues to fall 
walking around the campus.'

lklations, Planning and Policy, were "really terrified, especially
into this'· eategory. 

Hules and Hegulations, and those who have walked back and Steering, which determines the The SLC's membership has been forth alone." prehensive about walking since the S.Mnry's parking lots to their council's agenda for discussion. cut to 15 this year in order to in­Theresa LaCava, a senior at St. alleged rapes. I try not to walk but dorms. 
Each of the committees will crease efficiency. The council is Mary's, said she would not walk by will if there's no other way." Une treshman did not even know have at leastthreemembers drawn made up of five administrators, herself but would try to find c;;he added it was a shame that that the escort service existed. from the SLC itself, in addition to rive faculty members, and five stu someone to walk with. students have to worry about Lawlor agreed that the service is 
o!hl'r persons recruited for expert­dents, including the Student Body According to LaCava, the something like walking between not really well publicized, and ise or interest from the rest of the l'n'sident and a representative of security guards "are never in the the two campuses. "Sometimes, if suggested the details be better campus. Subcommittees will be the Hall Presidents' Council. Tne right place at the right time." She the weather is nice, you just want advertised. fomwd to deal with specific issues SLC will meet the second and said she wouldn't want to take the to walk," she mentioned. Students who would like an within thP general area of concern. fourth Tuesday of each month chance of something happening if Most students do not blame the escort should call the security 
Tht' Campus Life Committee has throughout the. semester. she were walking alone after dark. security force for the unsafe office at 4313. 
Senior faculty members refused full-time work 
by Maureen Flynn 
Sl'nior Staff Reporter 

The Faculty Senate has refused to recommend to the . Ad­ministration that all capable faculty members be allowed to contmue full-time employment past age 65. 
In approving the report of its Special Committee on the Retired, the S£>nate last night voted to ddete the following recommendation: 
That the Administration "extend to each faculty member who has reached his sixty-fifth birthday the opportunity to contin~e in full-time t•mployment. if he wishes to do so, provided that he. IS capable of discharging his duties, subject to annual review. Additionally, provision should be made for part-time teaching, for those who wish it." 
The St•rwh• substituted for the deleted passage a recommendation that the Administration "afford to each retired faculty member the maximum possible opportunity for part-time teaching." 
The approved recommendation was proposed by law professor Hohert K Rodes after debate concerning the University's current retirement policy. At present, a faculty member is automatically retired at age65, unless an exception is purposely made. The Senate noted that no definite statement of policy for exceptions exists. 
Objections to Mandatory retirement 
Several faculty members argued that mandatory retirement in­sures a healthy rate of turn-over within departments and provides openings for young educators in a tight job market. 
Professor John Lyon, chairman of the general program of liberal studies, told the Senate that several older faculty members of his acquaintance have expressed a preference for an absolute mandatory 
rPtirement age. (continued on page 6) 

. . 
~ 

\ .~.'
_,
~-·-. 
. If~ 
·ct. 
~~r. " 
·,:.~· 

Following an inconclusive discussion of the present mandatory 
retirement policie!., the Faculty Senate approved a recom­
mendation that would maximize part-time teaching op­
portunities for retired faculty members. 
(Photo by Paul Clevenger) 

According to Kovatch 
Security system adequate
ttJ · hy Eilt'en O'Grady starr Heporter Even with the recent reports of alleged rapes and break-ins, St. 1\lary's Security Directer Anthony Kovatch insists his present st•curity system is equipped to handle any situation. "\\\• have continual patrol; 24 hours a day. There is always sonwone on patrol. We have both foot and car patrol. The routes are nevl'r assigned. If we did assign routes. then everyone would know which way you're going and when. !{ather than set a pattern we deviatl'. "The main road from U.S.31 going wt•st. is patrolled con­Iinuously. especially during the dark hours." Kovatch said. 
UNDERGROUND AT SMC --Saint Mary's extensive steam tunnel
St. 1\lary 's also offers an escort 
!.ystem is frequented by the students going from building to building. The
st'rvice to its students. Security 
convenience of this system is most apparent during the winter. However,
officers l'scort them back to St. 
many student!. are afraid to walk in the tunnels at night because of the
1\lary's from Notre Dame after the 
gloomy atmosphere.
shuttle bus stops running. The servicl' is set up especially for one 
(Photo by Paul Clevenger) or two girls who have no way of closed during visitation hours to "I'm always scared in them at getting home and are afraid to discourage young men from en­night. Somehow by the end of the walk alone. tering the dorms without leaving tunnel. I'm always running. Part 
Tlw Pscort service has been in their !.D.'s. of the reason is the strange sounds . use for three years. According to Hobin Haher, a St. Mary's They echo. So if I hear anyKovatch. "There are a few girls transfer student, explained why strange sounds, like the hot water 
who use it. They don't abuse it most of the girls are afraid in the pipt>s, I always think they 
are 
though. It's always one or two tunnels. They all seem to footsteps. Everyone's alwaysgirls who call instead of a whole rem em her a Jeanne Dixon 
afraid in them at night, but you 
~roup. I'd rather send a car than pn,diction made a few years back, 
lll'Ver hear of anything hap­
take the chance of one of them when entering the tunnels alone. pening." she said. gl'tting hurt." he said. "She predicted that in some 
Kovatch says ttw tunnels are 
Another possibly dangerous;m•a Midwestern private women's 
constantly patrolled. "When 
is the tunnel system at St. Mary's. college, a girl would be hatcheted 
they're open, they're checked. 
The tunnels connect LeMans, Holy late at night in the school's tunnel 
There are emergency phones in the 
<'ross. Moreau and Regina halls. svstem." Haher said. 
Iunnels directly connected to the 
They are open all day and locked ·Another St. Mary's student 
seeurity office. The tunnels are 
at night after the pool clears out, claims she uses the tunnels all the usually about ll:OOP.M. They are timl'. but at night she is afraid. (continued on page 2) 
Rape reports cause increased usage of transport methods 
h~· l\laggit' Waltman Another senior, Leslie Wilson, conditions. One sophomore said starr Ht'portt'r said she would not walk alone. th£> force "spems to be doing a good 

Wednesday, October 8, 1975
2 
the observer 





Poll indicates Judicial Boards
warld briefs 
not active in lllajority of halls
MANILA, THE PHILIPPINES (AP)-An armed Filipino hijacked 

a jetliner as it approached Manila airport Tuesday and held it captive on the ground for nearly eight hours until authorities 
by Cathy Cannon and Jill Truitt the rector goes into a room and promised to help find the 4-year-old daughter he claimed had been 
Staff Reporters sees a girl in bed with a guy, then I kidnaped. 
think Roemer would hear about The hijacker, identified as Camilo Morales, about 25, was coaxed 
According to a poll taken of hall :it," he explained. 
into surrendering in negotiations under the belly of the Philippine presidents, Notre Dame Hall Airlines BAC-1-11 after officials had complied with his earlier Judicial Boards are generallydemand to ready the plane for a flight to Libya. 
unused.

Maj. Gen. Fidel V. Ramos, commander of the Philippines con­Only Sorin, Keenan, Stanford,stabulary, said the abduction of the child had made Morales and Morrissey report successful "mentally unstable." 
programs in their halls. WASHINGTON <AP)-The Senate Foreign Relations Committee 
Tom Grimm, Sorin hall approved a resolution late Tuesday to send 200 American 
president, revealed the Notre technicians to surveillance posts in the Sinai to help monitor the 
Dame Judicial Board was modeled interim agreement between Israel and Egypt. 
after Sorin's board. "We have a The 10 to 2vote clears the way for probable final authorization by 
good workable organization. Last Congress by the end of the week. This, in turnc would lead to im­
year our J-Board handled quite a plementation of the accord negotiated in August by Secretary of 
few cases," he said. State Henry A. Kissinger. 
Bill Fallon, Keenan hall The resolution paseed by the committee contains a disclaimer 
president, said their J-Board stipulating that Congress is not bound by any of the collateral 
handles all disciplinary actions understandings Kissinger reached with the two states during his 
including parietal and liquorshuttle diplomacy. The House version, carrying the same 
violations. 

provision, is due for a floor vote on Wednesday. 
''Each hall should determine individual rules on parietals and 
alcohol violations instead of the


an campus taday 
12:15 pm -­
3-5 pm -­
4:00 pm -­
4:30 pm -­
5:15 pm -­7, 9,11 pm -­

' 
7:30pm --. 

' 
7:30 pm -· 10-12 pm -­
violations depend on the blatency


SMC tunnels patrolled 
of the offense. 
University," he added. "They can only accomplish this if the rector

seminar, "regulation of the microflora of leukemia­
has confidence in the J-Board." 

prone akr mice" by kunwar k. srivastava & morris. wagner, n.d. microbiology dept., rm. 278 galvin life 
Morrissey hall's J-Board has 
been given additional respon­

science ctr. aud., coffee & sandwiches In rm 109 lobund 
sibility concerning disciplinary decisions, according to Dan 
lab at 11:45 am. 

formal and fad dance instruction with fran de marko, 
Buckley, Morrissey's president.

Iafortune ballroom, faculty, staff, students, $2 per 
1

class. "The J-Board will h-andle all 
problems in the hall except those

lecture "implosive therapy: an illustration of a union 
dealing with drugs," he explained.

between the methods of applied-clinical and ex­
perimental-clinical psychology" by thomas stampfl, 
Stanford's J-Board Chairman,

univ. of wisconsin-milwaukee, rm 119 haggar hall. 
Ed Dropcho, attributes his J­

reilly lecture, "some cycllzatlon reactions that Involve Board 's effectiveness to hall 
free-radical intermediates" by dr. herbert o. house, rm members' awareness of their 
123 nieuwland science hall. rights concerning disciplinary act­
ions.

vespers, evensong, log chapel. 
"We have given lists of rights on disciplinary actions to all hall 

film, "the stepford wives", engineering aud. 
american scene, "american literature and the 
members. Even if the rector

imagination of otherness" by giles gunn, prof. at univ. 
doesn't inform them what they can

of north carolina, carroll hall. 
do. they'll have some idea of their

discussion on law school, by rich badger, asst. dean 
options," Dropcho revealed.

law univ. of chicago, rm. 117 haggar hall. 
Jack Hanzel, Zahm's president, stressed responsibilities given the J-Board concerning University 

nazz coffeehouse, basement of Iafortune studdnt ctr. 
(continued from page J') 
checked several times nightly," he said. 
The most recent disturbance was a report made by two fourth floor residents of St. Mary's Holy Cross hall last Wednesday night. About 3:00A.M., both called St. Mary's security to report a young man had 
1 entered their room. When they .· screamed, he ran off. No one was hurt in the incident.
I 
Kovatch thinks someone tried to play a prank on the girls. "Someone was trying to play Halloween tricks before 
" 

: SIIAGHETTI 
: MOSTACIOLLI I LASAGNA : RAVIOLI
j
· : PASTA FAG10L1 
• 
·'If a guy is caught walking out of 

Kovatch is sure the young man the dorm at 3 a.m. with a girl, was a student or one of the girl's nothing much will be done. But if boyfriend. "He knew the dorm and 
exactly where he was going. If he wanted to be indiscriminate, he 
Ten hall J-Boards were used less than three times last year, ac­cording to their hall presidents. They revealed various reasons for the limited use of the Boards. 
Mark Kaiser, President of Flanner, said Father John Mulcahy does not include the J­Board in disciplinary procedure. "Mulcahy doesn't use the J-Board because he doesn't agree with its policies," he said. 
Walsh President, Pat Sheehan, said many students do not know t­hat they have the option of requesting a hearing before the J­Board rather than letting the rect­or decide on the case. 
"The people in the hall do not have a good image of the J. Board," said Jay Nowak, Alumni president. He feels if this changes the J-Board will be used more frequently. 
James Roemer, dean of s!u. 
dents, has given hall J-Boards 
more responsibility. Hall 
presidents feel this responsibility 
will increase the need of J-Boards. 
Howard Hall has not had a J­Board for the past two years, according to Mike Welsh, Howard president. 
"We've never had any problems with disciplinary procedures. The hall staff handled rules violation," he added. "We are looking into the possibility of starting one because it would be important for the hall to 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session. except during exams and vacation periods The Observer tS published by the students of the Univ. of Notre 
D'ame and St Mary's College Subscripttons may be purchased for 10 dollars per semester ( 18 dollars per year) from The Ob server, Box Q, Notre Dame. In dtana, 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

have one if the new SLC liquor guidelines are passed." 
John Sequiera, Cavanaugh president, said, "Cavanaugh has never had a board before and I really don't think one will be helpful now. If more power is handed over to the halls, it could be an important body." 
Farley, Breen-Phillips, Grace and Holy Cross are presently organizing their Judicial Boards. 
Sequiera said he would like to 
see a situation where the J-Boards decide if a case should be kept within a hall or sent to the Dean of Students. 

lftl lOlL THIU FIL 1:31 P.l. 
wouldn't have gone up to the fourth floor," he said. 

ROCK PRODUCTIONS 
Security officers found the fire escape door on the fourth floor open. Kovatch assumes this is the 
Presents

way he entered. "The girls have a bad habit of opening the fire escape doors when it gets warm. They cannot be opened from the 


A NIGHT WITH LEROY HUTSON
outside. But from now on, they will be secured with fire locks," he 
Halloween he said. said.
l............................................., :REMEMBER THE FOOD YOU USED: i TO GET AT FRANKIE'S??? i 
: THAT'S THE SAME FOOD : : YOU GET HERE : : (Dorothy, the cuisine artist with : 

Plus

• at Frankie's is now at Valerie's •i cooking the same delicious food) i 
GARY TOMS EMPIRE ~ ITALlAN SPECIALTIES : i 
"7-6-5-4-3-2-1" 
: 

"BLOW YOUR WHISTLE" 
10% discount : with N.D. J.D. : 


Friday October 10, 1975 8 p.m.
; 
(Italian bean soup) i 

South Bend MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM
•
•

: (Dinners Inc. Italian bread & salad) •
• 

Tickets: $4.50 in advance $5.50 Day of the Show
: OPEN t BREAKFAST SERVED: 
5 0 9

• am pm ANYTIME •
. : 
Jan & Ken's Record Shop on Western Ave.
i VALERIE'S RESTAURANT : 
Box Office at Morris Civic Auditorium
: 801 S. MICHIGAN. SO. BEND i 
Sounds Unlimited on River Bend Plaza
: (NEXT TO GILBERTS) 289 -0681 i 
.............................................. 
._____~------­


Wednesday, Octob~e~r~s::!.'-.!1.!.:97~s~___:_:th~e~o:'...'b~s~e~r~v~e~r___~3



Budget increased 
HPC considers hall allotments 
by Martha Fanning they were not going to use all of submit this pian along with the hall 
Staff Hl'portf'r tht•ir alloment, perhaps the extra guidelines to the SLC." 
ThP Hall President's Council could be reallocated." . The committee to decide on the 
discussed this year's hall allot­Last year several halls didn't use council's guidelines includes: Bob 
nwnt procedure at a meeting held all of their allotment. Stanford Hall Hyan; Patty Sheehan; Dan 
in Bn•en-Phillips last night. president Bob Hyan suggested Buckley; Mike Casey, Pangborn 
Mike WPish, SLC representative, t•ach hall submit last year's budget president; Pat Tack, Badin explained the IIPC budget change. allolnH•nt as well as a report on president: Kathy Grace, Breen­"Last Wednesday the Budget how much the hall spent. Phillips president; John Sequiera, Committee nwt to reevaluate and Six council nwmbers will serve Cavanaugh president, and Tom finalize budgets. At that time the on the IIPC Budgetcommittee: Bob Grimon, Sorin president. Ill'<' budget was increased from Quakenbush: Jay Nowak, Alumni Matt Cockrell, director of the $12.000 to $13,000. A bill of $600 President: Patty Sheehan, Walsh Ombudsman, explained the im­from a loan taken out last year. president: Dan Buckley, proved Campus Mail Service. was immPdiately paid to the Morrissey President: Donna "The ombudsman reorganized StmiPnt Government so the total Crowley, l<'arley president; and tlw Campus Mail Service for anwunt for the council this year is Dennis Sullivan, Grace president. St udl'nt Union this year. Students $12.400. Wl'lsh also introduced the issue can drop off their mail anytime 
Discussion ct•ntl•red on how the of Alcohol Guidelines for the halls. before !l: :30 p.m. A person wil pick hall allotments would he handled. "If tlwre is to be any hope to up thl' mail around 10:00 p.m. and Elton .Johnson, IIPC chairman, l'hangt• the present university bring ·it to a box located at the l'Xplained lw'd prPfer to initiate a rulPs, tlw halls will have to form entrancl' of Alumni Hall. Every prol'l'dun• that will be carried on guidl'lines on how they would aftPrnoon mail from the ad­from \'Par to vear. handle the problem if the present ministration building will also be 
For. this ~·par, the council rule was changed." he Pxplained. picked up and brought to Alumni. del'idt•d that l'ach president will Welsh rpquestl'd that each hall In tht• morning, hall mail clerks ~nbmit a budget for their hall with submit a set of guidelines to the will pick up the mail from Alumni l'xplanations on how the money Ill'<' within two WI'Pks. and deliver it to the hall. The would bt• used. "I have records A proposal to have th£• IIPC back st'r\'il'l' is free of charge. lrom t!l71 on hall budgets which OIH' spt of guidelines was mPn­1\lailboxl's are locatt•d at the North willlw sl'nt out to lwlp halls decide tioned by Hvan. "If wP're to be a and South Dining Halls. in from! of on tlwir hudgi•t." .Johnson statl'd. body tl;at ;m•ans anything, we tlw Knights of Columbus, and in 
lloh t~uakl•nhush. Executive Co­havp to start taking a unified front of LaFortune," hi' explained. ordinator. addt•d "I havP last stand." Hyan comnrt•nted. Tht~ Ill'<' decided upon some ~I' a rs lnrdgPt proposa Is from Pach "Each hall should give to the prot·Nlural changes dealing with 
hall in tlw Ill'(' office if anvone Ill'(· tlwir guidl'line. one of which announcements and speakers. nl'eds a point of rd't•rl'nCl'." · 11·ill Ill' picked and backed by the Spl'ak1•rs wishing to appear at a 
Tlw proposals will he givPn to a rouncil." he added. nH•l'ling must gl't in touch with t'ornnriltl'l' to lw discussed and cut Anotlwr proposal was to have tlw l·:lton .Johnson, Bob Quakenbush or if III'CI'ssarv. Wlwn a committee Ill'<' form their own general .loamH' o· 'Hourke by the l<'riday rnt•mlH•r's ·hall budgPt is !wing guidl'lim· from the ones submitted. l)(•fon• t hl' nH.•eting. l'onsidPrPd th<rt indi\'idual will not After sonH' discussion Johnson "This will serve to get them on tak1• part in the dl'rision. surnrnarizl'd the plan dPcided tht• agt'IH!a and they will receive a 
.Johnson comnH•n!Pd "a standing upon. "t•:ach hall will submit their spt of guidelines for speaking at a l'onrrnrttl'l' could make sun• the guidelirw from which the HPC will nwPt ing." .Johnson explained. ha II was spt•nding tlwir money, if form a gt•rwral plan. The HPC will ,\ n n o u n e l' m e n t s f r o m 



SMC athletic role grows 
h.\· 1\lar)' Hukavina "Wt• do not have to worry about program which will allow more 
Stafl' Bt•por·ter division of funds for male girls to participate in physical 
Thl' St. Mary's athletic program athletics," said Wernig, "therefore activity. is Vl'ry much a part of the overall Wl' are able to fund each team Scholarships for athletics are not college as evidenced by its growth complPtely with the money that is in the planning , according to in the last few years, according to available through the college." Wernig, because the funds "just 
StPvie Wl'mig, assistant to the St. Mary's fields intercollegiate aren't available." Wernig stated \'ice-president for student affairs. varsity teams in ten sports in-that St. Mary's will remain W1•rnig stated that she believes 
primarily an academic institution, many factors have contributed to 
with athletics playing just one part
*
Observer 
in the total college program.
tlw success and growth of the 
Insight 
SMC student athletes feel that the athletic program is a healthypres£•nt program. 
Administrative support is the first eluding tennis, volleyball, one and of high caliber.
l'SSl'lltial factor to the program, basketball and skiing. Tl'nnis team member Lynnilccording to Wernig. "One of the Wt•rnig voiced amazement at the Griffin said, "The caliber offirst things I did when I came to St. 
ability of SMC to produce large athletes can be attributed to girls1\lary's last year was to request numbers of women to participate who come from backgroundsthat athletics be handled through in varsity sports. "We are a liberal which exposed them to differentan administrative office," Wernig 
arts college, primarily interested sports."
said. 
in academics," she pointed out. Griffin feels the tennis team is a "The student athletes need to "WI' don't even have a physical good example of her statement. 
know that when they go out education major."
to "Many of the girls have played at n•present the school they have In the past St. Mary's teams home competitively," she said, "or somt• administrative support," have practiced in less than have taught at clubs which givesWPrnig stated. "They should adequate areas, Wernig stated. As them the experience on which to 
know someone high up cares about an she that build a team."
example noted the 
tht•m." 
basketball team last year played Barb Timm, another tennis team 
Another important factor ac­on a slanted court. member added, "Many girls on cording to Wernig, is publicity. A new recreational facility for any of the varsity teams are good "Publicity of the program is St. Mary's is in the planning enough to compete and find a spot l'SSential. You have to let students stages, however, and this new on a team of a larger university." 
know what is available for them facility will alleviate some of the Both Griffin and Timm believe 
and hope interest is generated," problems and enhance the growing that more intense competition 
she said. program, according to Wernig. would enhance St. Mary's 
A final factor in the success of The increased athletic interest at athletics, and would like to see a 
the SMC athletic program is St. Mary's has also lead to the revised schedule which includes 
funding. formation of an 11intramural larger schools. 

WEEKEND SALE 

Featuring Braun flash , Ricoh cameras, 
Nizo movie cameras and Paterson darkroom equipment 
Product demonstrations 


by factory specialist, BRUCE WISEMAN 
SAT, OCT. 11 8:30 -5:30 SUN,OCT12 12-4 10% to 25% off our regular prices 





'Tearafter vcar~
I semester·after 
semester~ the 
CollegeMaster 
from Fidelity 
Union Life lias 
been the most 
accepted. most 
popular plan on 
campuses all 
overAmerica. 
Find out wh~·. 
Call the 
Fidelity Union 
Collt.\gcMaster 
~,'ield Associate 
m your area: 
1 005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend, Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 
,r<~-· 
. l 
( ( )llc~cMllslcr 
.... 


DOONESBURY 
~~The Observer 
~ ~ on independent student newspaper Founded November 3, 1966 
Terry Keeney Editor·in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Manager 
EDITORIAL BOARD AI Rutht>rford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; Kl'n Gir0uard, News Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil. Features Editor; Chris Smith, Photo Editor 
Wedne!>day, October 8, 197~ 

by Garry Trudeau 
IUEU••, 60V&RNOR, 7HCR£'5 BeeN AN /N!Cf<EST!N6 PEvet.OP­M£NT! 7HE MINISTER OF WJ/..06Y 
/J#IS OUT rAKIN6 COR& SAMPLES FRI)M 7HE OCEAN FUJOR 7lJPAY 11/HGN HE RUPTl/R£P IUHIIT Hfi IJCL.IEYfS IS A L.AR6& {)&POSIT 



Notre Dame Needs Affirmative Action 
Notre Dame needs Affirmative Action. 
Fr. Burtchaell, in his testimony before the Labor Department last week, failed to articulate the particular problems of hiring women and minority progessors at Notre Dame. Burtchaell's argument that there are simply not enough qualified women and minorities to go around is a debatable point. But one thing is not debatable --that Notre Dame suffers from a lack of commitment to Af­firmative Action. 
Statistics seem to illustrate a lack of concern for women and minority hiring at Notre Dame. 
--Less than three percent of the faculty 

are women. There professors and only granted tenure.  are no two  women have b full een  
--The number  of  women  faculty  ac­ 

tually decreased from 1973-74 to 1974-75. The Committee on Undergraduate Life in its report on coeducation did not blame this decrease on the lack of available women. The report stated that Notre Dame has not treated 1its women well once they were hired. The aura of this once all-male institution and the lack of adequate numbers of women on the faculty partly accounts for a high tur· 
nover rate. 
--The University hns 48 ethnic minority faculty, including 15 blacks. 
--Listings of women and minority faculty are deceptive. Of the 64 women faculty listed this year, 19 are library employees and seven are classified at "others." These often have no voice in the academic programs of college departments, the faculty senate, etc. 
The problem this University has en­countered with women and minority faculty is a vicious circle: the Universtiy loses these faculty because there are not enough of them to make a difference. Losing these minority faculty then decreases their number in absolute terms. 
What commitment means 

Increasing women and minority faculty cannot be achieved by lip service paid to Affirmative Action. A~ decision to hire more representative faculty is going to mean a serious financial obligation by the University. 
Fr. Burtchaell has said that there are no significant numbers of women and minority me'llbers unsuccessfully seeking jobs in· universities. What about Ph.D's entering other sectors of the ecnnomy? To attract these individuals may require higher faculty salaries across the board. It may require a permanent search committee for Af­firmative Action hiring, as Howard Glickstein has proposed. 
A greater commitment to Affirmative Action merely begins with hiring greater numbers of women and minorities. It means encouraging upward mobility within university ranks from instructors to deans. It means that each department must make Af­firmative Action hiring a prime con­cern. 
Is commitment worthwhile? 
Ultimately, the university must decide whether increased hiring of women and minorities is worth the financial expense, as well as the alleged cost in terms of quality education. Fr. Burtchaell has argued that there is a lack of qualified women and minorities, and that universities may be forced by the Federal government to hire unqualified faculty simply because they happen to be women or black or chicano. This alleged "loss in educational quality" would have to be of major proprotions to outweigh· the gain in value development. At a university that prides itself of forming values of students and has even instituted a "value seminar" for its students, a lack of commitment to Affirmative Action is incongrous. 
What makes this lack of commitment even more incongruous is th-at Fr. Hesburgh spent some 15 years on the Civ1l Rights Commission, a group that is currently very critical of weak Af­firmative Action enforcement in colleges and universities. 
Fr. Burtchaell's statements seem to conflict with his inaugural sermon Sept. 
14. In his sermon, Burtchaell stressed the revolution in husband and wife roles resulting from the wife leaving home to work.a It is· important that Notre Dame women in these initial years of coeducation be provided effective "role models" of women who have chosen a career over the traditional housewife role. Without adequate female faculty representation, Notre Dame men might fail to realize that women are just as capable as men in the career working world. 
In the same way having more black or chicano or Indian professors is a broadening experience for students, in addition to providing career fulfillment for these minorities. 
Fr.'Burtchaell's remarks indicate a University policy that seems to con­tradict many of the ideals and values that Notre Dame has historically stood for: civil rights, value formation, equal op­portunity employment. If his statement does indeed signal a slowdown in hiring of women and minorities , we can only ex­press great disappointment in the Un­viersity. 
Sin9 a Ion9 Junk ~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
The Best Sermon 

_.._iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii Joe GiII 
There are nights when weariness of mend and body clouds a vision of the future, when distortions caused by mental and emotional pains are like sores that just won.t heal. 
It is during these nights that the candles in the Grotto shimmer in in silent comfort, and while standing there, the mid cannot help but turn to God and religion. 
Many years attending Catholic schools, going to church on Sunday, receiving sacraments. Many years of knowing priests and vaguely knowing nuns. Many years of praying before tests, hearing sermons and reading gospels. For may years, I was raised, and I lived, in a Catholic atmosphere. 
Now and then, I think back and realize that these sermons and gospels and prayers did leave lasting impressions ..... But sometines, something very simple is learned, and for some reason is never forgotten. 
When I was in the primary grades, comic books were selling for five cents a copy. Of them, I was a connoisseur. Superman, Bat­man, Spiderman, and Wonder Woman were extremely familiar names to an avid reader, all of ten years old. 
One story at the end of a "Superman" comic book, and replete with picture and dialogue, has been held in memory. It went something like this: 
A few years ago, there was a man living an a large mansion outside of town. He was a very good and kind man, a philanthropist who freely gave money and aid to those in need. He had great musical talent; as he played the piano, he and the music become one and filled the room with serenity. He loved animals, and they reciprocated with wagging tales and joyful barks whenever he appeared. This gentle man, though, was shunned by people. 
You see he was very ugly. His face was misshapen, and people would look away from him in repulsion. Because of this un­comeliness, his tremendous love for people went unrequited. 
One day, the government advertised a project in which someone would bore to the center of the earth in a rocket. The ad­vertisement stated that the person who volunteered would never return. 
And so, this kind-hearted man volunteered, feeling that he had little to live for. He was strapped to the seat, had no good-byes, and no regrets .... 
The rocket bored for what seemed to him an eternity, but finally it stopped. He opened the hatch and viewed with astonishment a magnificent city underneath the earth. 
"Welcome, beautiful one," a voice said. He turned and faced a 
young woman. Other men and women slowly appeared. "But I am very ugly" said he. "No," she responded. "Long ago, our people were blinded b) a 
blast. We have learned to see with our feeling and our hearts. We can see your kindness, you love for others. Come, sit and play the piano for us." 
He smiled, sat, and played. The story was ended, and on the last panel, in black letters upon a yellow background appeared these words: For only when men learn to see with their hearts, as well as with their eyes and ears, will then• indeed be Heaven on Earth. 
the observer 

Night Editor: Marti Hogan :>ports: Bill Brink, Chip Scanlon, Fred Herbst As!>istant Night Editor: Bob Brink Typi!>t!>: Mary Setlock, Joan 
Martel, Camille Arrieh, Neil Viii Layout Staff: Karilee Clark, Bob Compugraphic: Hank Van Dyke Mader, Jim Stevens Night Controller: Bobby Stein­Day Editor: Marianne Schulte metz 
Copy Reader: Gregg Bangs Picture Screener: Jack the Ripper Editorials: Val "the greatest" Ad Layout: Pat Russell, Steve Zurblis Slater 

BovvI game money serves as important revenue contributor 
by Patrick ('olt' 
Starr Bt>portt>r 

How much is a bowl of oranges, 
a howl of sugar, or a bowl of cotton 
worth? A few cents a pound? 
Not at all. Money is at stake 
when the Notre Dame football 
team takes the field on a New 
't'l'ar's Day. Bowl games have 
twconw a major source of revenue 
for the University. 
In 191>9, the University broke a 45-year han on postseason football appearances. This was done with the understanding net receipts would go to minority student aid. 
As a result, the 1970 Cotton Bowl ganw helpl•d the minority student 11pplicants with $160,000 in aid. forty-one minority group fresh­man received Cotton Bowl-funded awar~ds totaling $40,600 that year. 
During tht> past five years, the bowl ganw revenue has continued to provide funds for the University. 
According to Edward W. Krause, din•ctor of athletics of the llniversity, Notre Dame has l"l'<'eived ;lpproximately $375,000 
Pesticide bans not to blame 
lor encephalitis 
<'IIAHLESTON. W.Va. !API 
Bans on pesticides such as IJIJT are not to blame for this summt>r's outbreak of mos­quito-carried encephalitis, En­vironn)('ntal Protection Agency llin•ctor Hussell Train said Tuesday. 
lie said EPA has tried to set thl' record straight on that point. but "it has not deterred sclllll' members of Congress from making the same baseless charge on the floor of the House." 
Nor has EPA's explanation kPpt Sc•crl'tary of Agriculture Earl Butz from "spreading the samc• story on repeated occa­sions." hl' said. 
Train said DDT was largely ahando1wd for mosquito control ht>fo1·c· the 1972 han because the insects had twcomc resistant to it. 
Ttw ('Pnler for Disease Con­trol in Atlanta said in a Sept. 26 rPport that then• were :~88 con­firml'd c·ascs and 427 suspected easc•s of encephalitis in 18 slates. 
from both the 1970 and 1971 Cotton Bowls. approximately 450,000 from lht• 197:l Orange Bowl and the 1973 Sugar Bowl, and approximately 
$550,000  from  the  1975  Orange  
Bowl.  
However,  after  bowl  related  
expenses,  the  net  profit  is  con­ 

siderably less than the gross in­come. "The net profit," said F. I<:dmund P Joyce, Executive Vice­President of the University, 
*
Observer 

Insight 
"ranged from approximately $200,000 to $325,000." 
The income gained from a bowl ganw does not only go to minority scholarships as in the past. "The bowl games help the University get morwy." said Krause. The money 
gol'S  to  the  general  fund  of  the  
llniversity  and  is  not  used  for  
alhl<'lic purposes."  

"Why not for athletic pur­posl•s? lkcause Notre Dame is a privatl' school. Therefore, we get l'Xtra revenue." Krause explained. 
Fr..Joyce emphasiwd that the llniversity obtains revenue from nationally televisl'd games. "The nalional1wtworks like ABC set up plans lo tl'!evise teams. Since we an• NolrP Danw. the network gives us the maximum number of times a team can he televisPd--three tim<'s in a two year period." 
l<'r. Joyce said that the llnivPrsity receives about $200,000 for being nationally televised and $1tiO,OOO for being regionally televised. When Notre Dame rl'ceives a "wild card" national television invitation, this does not count toward the three game limit over two vears. 
The players on the football team have the primary responsibility of choosingthebowl game. "The team decides, "Joyce continued, "but we try lo play Ihe best team." 
Krausl' l'Xplained how choices Wl'l'l' made in the past. "Take the ~·(•ar 1971. W(• had an invitation to go lo the Gator Bowl, but the players didn't want to go. In 1969, wp chose to play Texas in the Cot­ton Bowl because they were rankl'd number one. We had a shot al tlw national championship," he statPd. 
"In 197:l, we chose Alabama because they were ranked number onl'. and as a result. we won the national championship. At any 
rate, the coaches are anxious to get 
up the rankings." 
After the players vote and the 

t•oaches consider their choice 
Joyce is involved in the finai 
decision. ''Also,theBoard of Trust­
l'es and maybe Fr. Hesburgh has 
some say in the final decision," 
Joyce commented. 
A bowl game involves costly 

preparations. "We have to gather 
information the team 
and individual players tor a oowl 
game," said Roger 0. Valdiserri, 
sports information director. "In 
addition to this, we have to prepare 
television slides, feature stories on 
first team players, and supply 
player and team information to 
television networks like ABC and 
CBS." 
\'aldiserri further stated that 

two press l'onferences are con­
ductt•d prior to the howl game with 
the players and coaches. "It's hard 
lo l'slimate the cost of providing 
this information. However, Notre 
llanw spends less than most 
schools." Valdiserri added. 
lneluded in thl' cost of a bowl 

game is player and coaching staff 
transportation. "For a bowl ganw," stated Robert M. Cahill, husinessmanagerofathtetics,"we
must chartPr a plane. This year for the 01·ange Bowl in Miami, I hadtocharteraplane,aDC-S,for
:.!23 people. These people include the players, the coaching starr,
lhPir wives and children and the administration."
ThP University must also pay for airlirw tickets to transport the player to his hometown after the bowl game according to Cahill. 
Dt>spite the expenses of a bowl game. the football program reaps a profit. "Football carries allthe school expenses. In the end, the University nets a few hundred 
~~~~tsand dollars in profit." Joyce 
jwie·d·n·es·d·a~y,~o~c·t·ob~e~r~a~,~l~97.Siilijjl~t~h~e~___o~_:~~~~~~rv~e~r----~~-~ 
All Seats n (STD-FAC $1.50)

~ND 
Season Ticket Still Available 
Four Plays $7.50 ($5.50 Std-Fac)

SMC 
• I • !•'

THEATRE 
Arthur of the treatment
Kopit's theatr~~~!r!~a~on 

of our native Americans. 
Oct. 10,11, 16,17.''18at 8:00P.M. Stepan Center (Notre Dame) 

MAC'S RECORD RPCK 
5 1 off any 
OD STEWART ALBUM (incl. ATLANTIC CROSSING s4.49) 
A full service record store 288. 1178 

r----------------, 
, WHY PAY SOc ON CAMPUS? ' 
' • ' 
f ALL CIGARETTES 38¢ PACK+ TAX f 
f CARTONS 85mm $3.33+ TAX f ' a CARTONS lOOmm s3.44 +TAX ' A 
'A WE ALSO CARRY THE FOLLOWING f 
f HARD TO FIND SMOKES t f Gauloises Caporal $ .60 pack t Kojaks $1.09 packf La Corona Whiffs $1.09 pack t ' Balkan Sobraine $ .95 tin l Black Hussians $1.60pack f t MAR MAIN PHAIIV\ACY t 
26 N MICHIGAN

I 4 · fl (Next to McDonald's) 234 -3184 J 
*********************~*~********************1r**********
* * 
* *
,..
! TEACHING JOBS OPEN i 
* *
*,.. * 
,.. * 
* * 
~ With 107 nuclear powered shifs now operating and 40 more on the way, ~ lt-the U. S. Navy is the larges operator of nuclear power plants in the * * world. As the foremost expert in nuclear power, the Navy needs talented * * instructors at our Nuclear Power Schools. * 
* ,.. * ,..
* * 
~ Instructors in basic science*and nuclear technology are needed. The ~ ~ program is open to both men and women, and applicants must have a BS ! ,._ degree, although postgraduate degrees are preferred. ;:: 
* *,..
~ New instructors receive a direct appointment as a Navy Ensign and five : lt-weeks of training and briefing -no boot camp. Starting salary is ap-* ~ proximately $10,000 (or more) plus all military benefits, includmg free !
* 
dental and medical care, 30 days paid vacation, and unlimited paid sick ;::

* 
leave_ ,._

* 
,..


* *
* Instructors receive approximately $17,000 a year after their fourth year * 
~ of teaching duty. : 
* * 
* *
* Instructo~s .teach officers and enlisted men goir:'g through the nuclear * lt-power tratntng program at Mare Island, California or Orlando, Florida-*
* No sea duty. ~ * *
* *,..
~ All qualified applicants are personally interviewed by Admiral H. G. ~
* * 

·i Requirements *
,..* Education: Degree in!_ M a t h , P h y s i c s, ....-Engineering or other ~ technical or scientific 
* field_ ,._ : Age: 19 to 27112 
Rickover, Director, Naval Reactors_ 
* *Math, Physics, Chemistry, Engineering 
If you're contact LT Officer Building 41, 
* 
:
* 
,..
interested, ~ Bill Hughes, ,._ Programs, lt-NAS Glen-* 

! Openings available for those qualified! ******************************************************* 
view, It.: 60026, or call (312) * 657-2170, collect. * 
i: 

the observer Wednesday, October 8, 1975 
Senior faculty denied full-time employment 
(continued from page 1) 
"Despite other considerations," Lyon said, they feel that "to retire one man, while retaining another· is tantamount to a public ·ac­cusation of senility." Requiring all faculty members, regardless of any other consideration, to retire at the smae age removes such "an invidious distinction," according to Lyon's sources. 
The personal rejection implied in forcing one professor to retire and not another can leat to bitterness and alienation from the Unviersity community, it was observed. 
Part-time opportunities approved 

Rodes then proposed an alter­native to the disputed apssage, and the Senate voted to acceppt his substitution, which recommends that the University allow retiring faculty members the opportunity to assume part-time teaching duties. The approved passage thus allows veteran faculty to continue working without hindeting the advancement of younger faculty. 
Heport based on survey 

The report's original recom­mendation was based on the results of a survey of retired faculty members last spring. 
That survey, conducted by the Senate's Special Committee on tte Retired, revealed that 43 percent of those responding would have liked to continued teaching. 
"It is not so mucn oecaust: Lhetr retired status is unfulfilling, " the report noted, a "as that they found work more fulfilling and would have liked to have prolonged it." 
"Despite this generally suc­cessful adaptation of ND retirees," the report stated, " ... the desire by 40-50 percent to carry on teaching or related activities after age 65 must be dealt with." 
The report noted that a program of gradual retirement, was favored by respondents for both psychological reasons and economic causes. The process would be permitted "by the recent approval of part-time ap­pointments for a few years following retirement." 
The survey was dustributed to 81 retired faculty members, of which number 63 replied to questions concerning their morale, income and economic well-being, professional activities, non­professional activities, and un­fulfilled aspirations. 
The report not noted that some respondents complained of a lack of communication from Notre Dame and contact with ND and other retirees. "Others suggested activities to to improve social contact," the report said. 
Almost all of the responding retired members said that they were still very much interested in and loyal to Notre Dame, the report noted. "But only 43 percent of the 58 persons who replied to the question .... believe that Notre Dame is equally interested in them." 
"Several persons expressed specific dissatisfaction with the impersonal, 'mechanical' way in which the retirement ceremony at the annual dinner disposed of 25-45 years of service to Notre Dame," the report stated. 
"The summary removal from University mailing lists upon retirement is another irritant," it continued. 
Lifestyle of retirees 
Asked to characterize the life­
style allowed by their retirement 
incomes, 34 of the 61 retirees 
responding said they were 
"comfortable." Thirteen claimed 
that increased costs have forced 
them to cut back on many items, 
while seven said they had been 
forced to eliminate many items 
altogether. 

Seven retired faculty members 
said their income "no longer 
covers basic expenses" and they 
''must use savings to supplement 
income." 

"Specific comments concerning: 
the retirement situation," the 
report stated, "elicited a number 
of dignified, restrained plaints. 
One would like to live out his 
remaining span 'without the 
contsant stress of worrying how to 
-C-IA-ll-~-~~-~=-~ coM THE PAN ! 
TODAY 9:00 A.M. to 3:00 P.M. 
11AND" PIZZA PARLORI 
make ends meet,"' the report mendations to the Administratioon 
113 w. monroe st. 

said.! "Another would like to focus on improvmg Notre Dame's 
'envision enough income to repait r-------------------------­
La Fortune Student Center If you've got it, prove it. If you want it, work for it. If you think you're a leader, show us. That's what we ask and expect of every college man who enters our Platoon Leaders Class commissioning program. PLC ... with ground, air and law options, summer training, and the chance for up to $2,700 in financial assistance. But to make our team ... you have to meet our challenge. 
THE MARINES 
ARE LOOKING FOR A 
FEW GOOD MEN. 


his old house, take an occasional short vacation, and not worry a bout hospital expenses for himself and his ailing wife,'"it continued. 
"There are so few of these persons, less than a dozen ,''lthe report notes. '"It would take so little money to solve this problem of a real part of the University community." 
Activities of retirees 
In the area of professional and 
non-professional activities, the 
survey indicated that 
"overall...the focus of activities 
has shifted with retirement, but 
activity level per se remains high. 
There is an indication," the report 
noted, "that another shift would 
occur if University-sponsored 
programs were extant, both for 
professioanl activities and travel." 
The report recorded the per­
centage of retired faculty mem­
bers involved in professioanal 
writing and research, travel 
abroad and within the U.S., hob­
bies, community affairs, church 
activities, and politics. 
The unfulfilled needs and 
aspirations mentioned by retired 
faculty members closely parallel 
their attitudes toward their 
retirement, economic situation, 
and state of relations with Notre 
Dame and other retirees. 
On the basis of the survey 
results, the Special Committee 
listed in its report a number of 
recommendations to the retirees, 
the raculty and the administration. 
"Organize. Circulate a 
newsletter. Have social get­
togethers," the report advised the 
retirees. "Almost three-quarters 
of you ... live in South Bend, 
Mishawaka, or Notre Dame." 
The report urged faculty 
members approaching retirement 
to utilize the counselling service 
provided by the Personnel Office. 
The report also recommends the 
inclusion of two emeritus members 
of the faculty in the Facaulty 
Senate and additional voluntary contributions by faculty members to the University persion fund. The most report's recom­
IGETIT··
! 
1 
I I I I
1 The pizza the 

relations with its retired faculty opportunity for part-time members in the following ways: teaching." --"Assist the retired in --Guarantee an annual income organizing and operating a club." "not less than $7000, including 
--Give all emerti the opportunity social sceurity" to each retiree to receive the Notre Dame Report, who has served 20 years ormore, Notre Dame Magazine, ND weekly "and a proportionate amount for t­calendar, ND Faculty Manual, and hose with fewer years of service." applications for football tickets. Publish in the November issue of 
--"Grant permission to each the Notre Dame Report the retired person and spouse to audit number of faculty who retired the any course offered ay Notre previous May, their average Dame." number of years of service and 
"Afford to each retired faculty their average University member the maximum possii>le retirement income. 
RING IN THE LIBERTY AT JORDAN FORD 


RENT A NEW PINTO $6 A DAY~­
.06 A MILE 

. RENT-A·CAR MINIMUM AGE 21 
JORDAN FORD 609 E. JEFFERSON _
259 1981

MISHAWAKA IND. 
lrp;·
I·
' I 
• 
11L...._o.
~--· -­


Pipes Papers Etc. 
newstand and general store 

I world awaited! WEEK FOR AN EVENT THAT I 
I YOU WON'T BELIEVE I 
1 (Save our valuable coupons.) I
I 8-pack 16 oz. 7Up or Pepsi, just $1 1 
I 277-1221 or 277-1222 I 
1 
for I 

I I Free Delivery I I 
I anywhere on campus I 
·-------------------------~ 
The only I authentic Italian I Deep Dish Pizza. I 
I I 

I WATCH OUR ADS ALL THIS I
1 



both halls will devote one mght a night a week. 
community service project to work 
week to this project. The volun­Both Conley and Temmerman 
THE TIME IS COMING 
on. usually in conjunction with
teers have been broken up into five Wl're pleased with th increased another hall.
groups (one each week night from number of volunteers which Sunday to Thursday), ~ith a jumped from ten to forty since last Hose Lee Tindall, assistant 
SO MARK YOUR CALENDAR. 
coordinator for each mght to spring. Both attribute much of this activities director of Healthwin, arrange transportation. vcar's success to the current commented, "I think this is really l'ommunity Services Director, ~real for young people to do."
Last night's activity was a sing­along in which both students and patients participated. "In the course of talking, singing and even 
OKTOBERFEST ·75 
dancing with some of the patient­s." Conley commented, "vol~n­lePrs wpr·e able to break the rce and begin to get to know the patients." 
"In lhe future. most volunteers 
Wed. Oct. 15 

will be visiting with the patients on a one-to-one basis," said Tem­mPrman. Don Schlunt, Activities Director for Healthwin, will be 
Thurs. Oct. 16

matching up volunteers and patients aecording to interests and will offer suggestions on what to do. 

"Some patients just need Watch sonwone lo listen lo them or just to bt' then>, while others like to play ganws or be read to," Conley For Pxplairwd. 
llt>althwin Hospital provides 
More

lhrw' types of care for its ap­proximatt'IY 100 patients: 1 l l'l'gular hospital care for the l'ldl•rly or handicapped ~nable_ to Details ... sPP lo lhPir own needs, 2l mtensrve ean· for lhl' more seriously ill, and 
WANTED Found: 1 locket at stadium after Northweslt'rn gam!'. Sue 7973.

CLASSIFIED ADS 
D••SpPraiPIY nPed ridP IO NPPnah, Lost: Man's gold ring with black Wi. Oct. 17. Call Ron 3374. Rich alumnus will pay more for 4 onyx setting-;ost bPtwePn 0-1 and
Help! Nl'ed 2 GA tix to Gl'orgia Typing 35 cents per page. Call Dan 
usc tix. Call Jim at 8904 for info. North Dining Hall. RPward. Call
Tech_ Call Jim 1188. 272-5549.
NPPd 1 BPach Boys tix. Call John 3334. 
1800. Students t>arn while you learn part­
NPI'd tour GA lix for G!'orgia Tech 

Will do typing, experienced. TE'rm
limt> contact work afford Pxtra in­Lost: '77 class ring Friday in
CJamt>. ·Call 4-5740. 

papprs, manuscripts, E'lc. Call 233­
Surprise! I don't need tickets. com!'. For appointment 184-4396. O'Shag. Rl'ward. Call 1079.
8512.

DPSpt>rately need a moiE'I room in South Bmd arPa Oct. 14 and 25. Call Wanted: 2 GA tix for Pitt game. 
FOR RENT 

Sport Parachuting Lessons. LParn
BPih 5141. Call Lisa 8089. PERSONALS the safl' way. 6-8 hrs. instruction. 
Jump the samP day. Contact JohnNPed ridE' to ClevPiand Oct. 10. Call Wanted: OnE' lickPI to any home 
Exceptional room, no smokers, 

Bronson (616) 782-3500 or LarryRobin 5488. 
game. Call John 1620. Wish Carol Guckl'rt a Happy Birt­
breakfast privileges, near bus. Call 

Erypart (219) 533-8219. 
hday tomorrow, Oct. 9.
232-8838. 

Two girls dPspPraiPIY nPPd ride to DPsperately nePd two SouthPrn Cal Quick Loans: Morrissey Loan Fund.
Chicago !his Friday or Saturday. tix. Call Bob 3665. 
Tim & Mike-Thanks for walking us
Rent my upstairs, 2 rooms, $50. 233­

Up to $150. 30 days, 1 percent in­
Call Mary at 4430 or 4537. homl'. MargiP and Jennifer.
1329. Kl'ep trying. 

terest. Basl'ml'nt of LaFortunl'. M­Wanted: 4 genPral admission tix to 
F 11:15-12:15.
Nt'Pdt>d: Two GA SouthPrn Cal tix. any home game. Bob D. 232-0550. 
Students or faculty, 5 rms furnished, 
In appreciation of Dick T. Dummy's

PIPaSP call John at 3467. 
private utilities furnished. Sl'curity 

Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho safe return, his capturers arp
Ne«>d ridP to Chapel Hill N. C. for 
dl'posit, nPar campus. 1002 Cam­

232-0746. CORDIALLY invitt"d to dinner nextNl'ed 4 GA USC tickpls. Call GPOrge N D UN C game. Call Ed 1642. 
peau St. Call 234-7925. 
Wt>dnesday at 6:30pm. RSVP. Dot,

3657. Now Open For Business: F lanner Mac, Kat, Sam. DPspPratPiy nePd ridP to Pittsburgh 
Large loom in student's house near Records 807 Flanner. PhonP 1488.
Nt>ed lots of Navy GA tix. Don 3755. 
on October 17th. Will share ex­Corby's: 618 St. PPier St. $60 a Records in stock and on ordl'r. All Tom WPite says Campus Vil'wpt>nses. Please call MichelE' at 277­month, all charges included. new $6.98 LP's tor $4.55. Nl'w­
"Nirvana". The Turkeys.

Would likP BE'ach Boy tickets in first 1567. AIIman Bros., Edgar WintPr,
fPw rows. Will pay ... Call Tim or Marshall Tuckl'r, Crosby, Nash, 
9C: Double D is alive and WI'IIChris at 272 1400. 

Dt>sperately nel'd 1 USC ticket. Will 


FOR SALE Jt>fferson Slarship, Jethro Tull. CamdPn. pay wt>ll. Call Mark 1474. NPed usPd hockey E'quipment. Call Addr!'SS PnVPIOpE'S at home. $800 per Happy Birthday, Lill. LOVP, Lee.
Tom 234 8858. 
Want«>d: 2 So. Cal tix. Call Ruth 
Quality sterPo componPnts at 20-40 

month, possible. Offer-details, sPnd
6173. 
p!'rcPnl savings. RMS Audio 321 S. 

$.50 (rpfundabll') to: Triple "S",
NPPd despt>raiPIY: ride to Chicago 1 2 the ex. Badin Bab!'S Sorry to SPt·Main. 288 1681 12-7 PM. 699-c36 Highway 138, Pinion Hills,Fri. Can IPaVP at 2. Call Mary 4438, NPed two GA SC tix. Will pay you moved so far North. Hope to SPI'
Ca. 92372.4537, or 1715. unlimi!Pd Coors and-or$. Joe 6701 or you and the ducks soml'time.
For sal£>: 10-spi'E'd bike, $50. Call • 6795. 
~----------­
Paul or Larry 3207. 

DPspPratE'Iy nPE'd ridE' to Cincinnati LOST AND FOUND 
on Oct. 10. Will sharE' driving and NPPd ride MWF from Portage & S. J. S. (or is it Kathl!'en??) I'm now
For sale: NO jacket, blul' with t'XpPnses. Call Betsy 284 5347. Angela to ND. Can leave 9 am or taking suggestions tor nPw lines.
gold sleeves. Bryan 287-5218. 

Lost: gold bracelet in vicinity of
earlier. Call 289-8015 any evening. Anything would bP bPttPr than thi!' Library, Nickil's, Corby's. Call 7871.
Nt>E'd 3 usc tickets. Call Mike after -presPnt ones!! What can I tell you? 6 PM 288 0088. N«>ed riders Past to Philly. Ll'avl' 
NOTICES 

Found: '77 class ring in Carroll 
Thurs. Oct. 9. Call Craig 287-3865. lnl!'restPd in the finer things of life?
Hall. Call 5103. 
DPspE'raiE'Iy nPPd rid£> to Dayton, Join thP BUSAI club. Contact Ohio WE'E'kend of Oct. 17. Lisa 4634. DPsperately need USC tix. Will pay PhrPdd, DuslyF. Ski, or E.O.Nadl.
Greyhound bus to Chicago--Leavl' Lost: 1 tan cardigan lost bPtween well. 7937, Please. 
main circiP 4:45 Friday--Call Tom 

football stadium and
Nt•Pd ride to St. Louis weekend of Happy Birthday EiiPen and Nancy.
8338 tor info before midnight 

O'Shaughnessl'y Hall. Please call
Oct. 11 12. Call Cathy 4436. Dl'sperately nl'l'd 2 or 4 USC GA t­Your Walsh friends.
Thursday. 

Debby 8152. 
ickets. Call 4438. 

Wan!Pd: NPPd ridP to Milwaukee Paul-Gel off my case. Squirrel.Junior League Thrift Shop. Over 
Lost: Glasses. pink frames with
(or Chi.) on Oct. 10 or 17. Will share Nl'ed ridP to Akron Oct. 10. Call 30,000 itl'ms. Nl'w & used clothing, pink ll'nses. Reward. Phone 7607.
t>xpPnsPs. Call Cindy 5486. 4007. 
Dl'ar Maureen: What happenl'd in
furniturE', housewarl's, l'tc. 4-H Fair 
the Captain's sink Friday night?

Grounds Sal. Oct. 11, 9 am-5 pm. Found: Silver bracelet with name
NPed travPI companion to tour 1 still need S. Cal. tix. Pleasl' call Uncle TPd. P.S. How were theFree parking and admission. "Vicki". Call Bryan 287-5218.
EuropP nl'xl sl'ml'sler. Call 1425. Mary at 4-4093. carrots? 
...------~----~-----~-~ --­
Lewis-Cavanaugh project 
Volunteer program begins 
by Mary Mungovan :ll "skilled" care for patients Don Longano. Starr Reporter suffering from long-term or "This year, thanks to Don, malignant disease. Community Services is really
Nine Lewis and Cavanaugh 
The Community Service Director moving," Temmerman stated.
volunteers visited the elderly, the 
s at Cavanaugh and Lewis chose 
"He really is a good organfzer,"

handicapped ad the recuperating 
11Palthwin for "Its convenient 
Conley agreed, "He believes that if
at Uealthwin Hospital last night, 
location \20531 Daren Rd., South 
you go to people with a project
launching the first night of ~he 
Bend l and their enthusiastic 
that's already set up, they'll be
Lewis-Cavanaugh Commumty 
response to last year's volun­
more responsive."
Service Project. 
teers," Conley stated. Last year 
Cornmunity Services is in its

Under the direction of Judy five volunteers from Cavanaugh 
second year as a campus-wide
Temmerman of Lewis Hall, and and five from Badin (who moved to 
7 Stylists Full Time Manicurilt Whatever the fashion Full Service Salon 
Edtson & St. Rd. 23 only '·• mile Southl'ast of campus 1 (across from Kentucky Fried Chicken and thl' 
FOR MEN 
~~~---~ 
8 

the observer Wednesday, October 8, 1975 
Bradley: every week his act gets tougher to follow 
by ('hip Scanlon 
When you're a starting member of a National Championship team as a freshman, lead your team in interceptions and wind up as a freshman All-American choice, some people might think there aren't too many thrills left. But don't bother telling that to Luther Bradley beacause he doesn't have the time to listen. 
Everytime Luther steps onto the field he is making his act just a litt­le tougher to follow. It's no wonder 11 hen asked a bout his biggest thrill 111 his young career he has to ponder before coming up with the answer. 
Bradley was thrust into national prominence when he wreaked havoc on Pat Hayden and the 1973 1·ersion of the USC Trojans. That regionally televised game will always be remembered by Irish fans. It was then he make two of his nine career interceptions, a total which he seems to add upon with each game. 

t Luther also managed to bat four 
I passes away from Hayden receivers, force one USC fumble and recover another. His in­
' 
terception total (6) and his passes­broken-up statistic (11) led the .1973 ·Irish squad. These totals are

t impressive for a freshman, but Luther continues to rewrite the record book in yet his second Irish campaign. Add three interceptions to his career total, including one that broke the back of an upset-minded Purdue team, along with 21 tackles and several assists and one can see the lightning pace that Luther is t­ravelling along at. With the Boilermakers pressing early in the fourth quarter on the Irish four yard line, Bradley plucked a ailback pass away from waiting Purdue quarterback Craig Nagel and raced 99 yards for an Irish score. 
Not only did it give Notre Dame a quick six and the spark to ignite ;m offensive surge, it gave Bradley 
the record for a pass interception run and earned him UPI Back of the Week honors. 

His interception against Michigan State and his touchdown saving tackle kept Irish victory hopes alive, unfortunately for only a short duration. The play which saw Luther take a deep angle of pursuit on MSU's Tyrone Wilson, fight off a blocker at the four yard line and then force Wilson out of bounds with a bone crunching hit was characteristic of the way Bradley performs everytime he st­eps onto the field. 
With all these highlights to choose from. it's no wonder Luther has to think twice before an­swering what was his greatest t­hrill. ''Winning the National Championship was the greatest t­hrill of my athletic career," ob­served Bradley. "It's not somethi­ng you do every year." 
Experience along with what Luther referred to as "a little bit of luck" is the difference between this year's team and the 1973 championship team. "This year, despite having a lot of talent, there is still a lot of inexperience," said Bradley. "But with each game we're gaining more experience. We'll have it all together for USC." 
Luther admits he is not yet confident at his new cornerback position. The transition brings with it different assignments and more responsibility. It is a credit to Bradley's athletic ability that Coach Devine switched him to cornerback "to get Luther in­volved in defensing the run as weu as the pass. Bradley's 21 tackles show he is getting more involved, much to the consternation of Irish opponents. 
But this performance still doesn't leave Luther content or confident. "With each game I'm gaining more confidence, but I still worry about getting burnt for the big play," he confided. "At cor­nerback r can't play as tight as I did at free safety, but in a couple of games I'll have more confidence," he predicted. 
At present Notre Dame is without the services of eight players who have seen regular duty at one time or another this year. But Luther feels that the Irish can come back this week despite their depleted corp. "Every team has its up and down weeks and obviously last week was ours," Luther explained. "The important thing was that we've learned from the MSU game and 
we rebound this Saturday."
One of the main reasons Luther chose Notre Dame was so he could compete against the best teams in the nation. "Notre Dame has the prestige, they compete against the best teams in the country and have 
a  shot  at  the  National  Cham­ 
pionship  every  year,"  observed  
Luther.  

This year, despite the upset and costly injuries, things will be no different. Especially if number 20, Luther Bradley, has anything to say about it. 

*Observer 
Sports 
Reds, Boston win playoffs 
By Tht> Associated Press 
The Boston Red Sox in the American League and the Na­tional League Cincinnati Reds won by identical 5-3 scores Tuesday night to sweep their playoff series and move into the World Series. 
Boston relief pitcher Dick Drago killed the Oakland A's last hope for a victory with one pitch and Carl Yastrzemski contributed two hits and a brilliant fielding play as the Red Sox completed their sweep over the world champion A's in the best-of-five-game series. 
Cincinnati pinch-hitter Ed Ar­mbrister's sacrifice fly drove in the go-ahead run in the lOth in­
ning  as  the  Reds  triumphed  
over  the  Pittsburgh  Pirates  to  
win  the  National  League  pen­ 
nant.  
Drago  replaced  Red  Sox  

starter Rick Wise with one out in the eighth inning after the A's had scored two runs to close within 5-3. His first pitch to Joe Rudi was turned into a double play and the A's three­year reign as world champions of baseball was virtually dead. 
Boston took a 5-l lead in the top of the eighth thanks to Tovar's error at second base. With one out and Fisk on second, Petrocelli lined to third base but Tovar dropped the throw to second which 
Swim tryouts 
Anyone interested in becoming a candiaate for the 1975-76 Notre Aame Swim Team should contact Coach Dennis Stark at his Rockne Memorial office or call 6222 within thf' next few days. 

would have doubled up Fisk. Dwight Evans was intentionally walked and Cecil Cooper singled to score Fisk. 
Wise got the victory in his first post-season appearance, while Holtzman took the loss, his second in the three-game series. Wise worked 71-3 innings, allowed six hits, walked three and struck out t­wo. 
Holtzman was charged with four mns, three of them earned, in his 4 2-3 innings. He allowed seven hits. 
The victory gave Boston its first league championship since 1967 and sent the Red Sox home to Fenway Park where they will open the World Series on Saturday against Cincinnati. 
The Sox pelted A's starter 
Ken Holtzman, who was pitch­ing with just two days rest, and 
· two  relievers  for  11  base  hits  
and  played  flawless  defense  be­ 
fore  suffering  a  slight  fielding  

breakdown in the eighth. 
It was a team victory for Cin­cinnati in a game that finished a duel of home runs and a record-equaling strikeout per­formance by Pittsburgh rookie John Candelaria and a last-of­the ninth Pirates' rally that sent the game into extra in­nings. 
The Reds gained their sev­enth National League pennant in the 99-year history of the franchise with a pair of runs off 35-year-old Pittsburgh re­liever Ramon Hernandez in the top of the lOth. 

Slager to start Sat. 
Rick Slager has been designated the number 1 quarterback for this 
Saturday'scontest with North Carolina in Chapel Hill, N.C. Slager started the first three games for the Irish and replaced last week's starter Joe Montana in the second half against Michigan State. 

Luther Bradley leads the Irish in interceptions this year (Photo by Chris Smith) 
,-------------------------­
The long injury list has forced a number of changes in the Irish's' Notre Dame's Wo~en's Tennis team 6-3 on St. Mary's courts. In what 
starting lineup for the game against the Tar Heels. Sophomore Terry Eurick will replace sophomore AI Hunter at halfback; freshman Jerome Heavens will start in place offreshmanJim Browner at fullback; fresh­man Chris Haines will replace sophomore Ted Burgmeier at split end. Burmeier will prepare for both offensive and defensive duty; junior Tony Zappala will start instead of sophomore Ross Browner at defensive end; freshman Bob Golic will replace junior Tom Eastman at middle guard; freshman Steve Heimkreiter will replace sophomore Doug Becker at outside linebacker and sophomore Tim Simon will start at free safety in place of Randy Harrison. 
Harrison, Ross Browner, and Becker have ankle injuries, Hunter a back injury, and Jim Browner has· an injured knee. 
Club Sports Summary 
Notre Dame's Rugby Team took two from Kent State last Saturday morning at Stepan Field. In the first game, the Irish "B" team outclassed Kent 34-0. In the second game, the lrish "A" team took command in the second half and won 18-3. 
The first half of the ''A" game was very competitive with Notre Dame leading at the half by a score of 4-3. Mike Holamn made the try for the four Irish points while Kent State's three points came on a penalty kick by Jim Tersek. both teams had ample chances but they were turned back at the last monwnt. 
The second half was a different story however, as Notre Dame dominated play. Tries by Kevin Deegan, Sean McDonald and Mike Dacey .coupled with a conversion by Chet Zwalick, added 14 points to the Notre Danw total while KPnt State was held scoreless.Notre Dame's final margin of victory was 18-3. 
The "B" game was not much of a contest as the Irish squad had their own way throughout. George Spiegel, Mark Jencko, Bill McHugh, Pinky Faherty. Pat Keough, and Tony Maridiola all made tries for ~otre Dame. Spiegel, in fact. scored twice. Eric Snider made three conversions and the Irish won going away. 34-0. 
*************** 

The Notre Dame Lacrosse Club opened their fall season last Saturday with an 8-6 victory over the N.D.Alumni at Cartier Field. 
Tlw Alumni jumped out to an early two goal lead but the club came 
hack ~·it.h four straight goals on scores by Bob Thibodeau, Thad Naquin, 
:lay.\\ !I hams and J.P. Marchand. However Bob Morin, the leading scorer 
111 Nil h1story. lied the score at four by scoring the next two goals. 
The third period was all club as Rick Kresock and Thibodeau gave 
( 'oach Hich O'Leary's current team a two goal lead going into the final 
pPriOd. 
Ttw Alumni c~me back again with two more goals but at the halfway 
mark of the penod, Mark Flanagan scored the winner for tht' club. Mark 
( 'onrwlly added an insurance goal to wrap it up for the Irish. 
*************** 

The Notr~ I?ame so~cer club came out of a grueling stretch yesterday 
when. they frmshed their fourth game in five days. The club earned a split, 
wmnmg two over the weekend, then dropping contests Monday and 
Tuesday. 
Friday night. the Irish defeated Purdue, 2-1, in Lafayette. Jim 
Donovan scored an unassisted goal and Kevin Buckley scored the game­
wrnner on a breakaway after receiveing a pass from Pat Fleed. 
Notre Dame played an excellent defensive game on Saturday, 
defeatmg DePaul 1-0. The lone goal was scored by Tom Dernadin with 
Pat Flood notching another assist. . 
Monday ND dropped a 2-1 decision to St. Francis. They dominated the 
second half, but could not get a score until a minute and a half left in te 
game when Bill Hagerty tallied. 
Yesterday the Irish were just outclassed as Goshen college shut them 
out. 6-0. *************** · 
This past weekend the Notre Dame Sailing Team journeyed to the University of Michigan for the Cary Price Regatta. The competition was fierce with Eastern powerhouses Navy and Tufts and strong Midwest teams from Ohio Wesleyan and host Michigan present. Notre Dame finished in 6th place. 1st through 6th places were very close with only 7 points separating those positions. 
The final results showed Tufts in first with 69 points, Ohio Wesleyan in 
second with 70 points, and University of Michigan in third with 72 points. 
Also. the women's team was at Ohio Wesleyan sailing in the MacDonald's 
Cup Women's Regatta. The final results showed the Notre Dame women 
in 6th while Denison University won the event. 
The next meeting of the club will be this Wednesday at 6:30 in room 204 
of the Engineering Building. 
**************** 

As an estimated crowd of 100 looked on, St. Mary's Tennis team defeated 
both coaches desc~Ib~d as a "bad day for everyone," St. Mary's team, rece~tly ranked thi.r~ m the state, took five of their six wins instraightsets 
In smgles c~mpeti.twn,. there were two close matches. Freshman Kam Amato, pl~ymg third smgles for Notre Dame, won 6-2,0-6,6-2 over St. Mary's third player. ~usan Tvroll. . 
In doubles comp~titiOn, N?tre Dame's first doubles team, Mary Shukis and Mary Jo Cushmg won m a close match over St. Mary's first team Jean Barton and K~Ke Brogger. They took the match in three sets; 3-6,6­4· 7-6 an~ wo~ the tie breaker 5-3. In the other close match, Anne Houser 
: and Sheila Fmneran, St. Mary's second doubles team, won their match over Anne Kelly and Sue Flanigan, Notre Dame's second team, by a score C)[ 3-6, 6-1, 6-3. 


