
South Vietnam surrenders 
IJnitetl States gave up Tuestlau 
SAIGON WPil -South Vietnam surrendered Wednesday to the Communists: The collapse came 2h hours after the United States pulled down the Stars and Stripes in the country it had spent 14 years trying to keep out of Communist hands. 
President Duong Van Minh announced the surrender in a 60-second address to his people at precisely 10:20 a.m-., 10:20 p.m. EDT Tuesday. He told his soldiers to ~t~p fig~ting and s~i?_he was ready to meet Viet Cong leaders "to discuss the turnover of the admtmstration, both ctvthan and military." 
Minutes later, Communist tanks--one flying the Viet Cong flag--rolled into downtown Saigon. Witnesses said the tanks were firing, but there was no return fire from government troops. 
In Paris. the VietCong said it would accept the surrender only after fulfillment of one remaining condition: that U.S. ships leave Vietnamese waters. That was expected shortly. The su~render end_ed 35 years of fighting in Vietnam, starting with the Japanese takeover in 1940. The Umted States m­
vested 14 years. $150 billion and mre than 50,000 lives in its efforts to block the Communists. 

unrversrty of notre dame st mary·s college Vol. IX, No. 125 Wednesday, April 30,1975 
Academic Council for experimental 
by Kathy Mills 
The Academic Council passed a proposal to set up pilot senior Sf'minars on values in each college ror the 1975-76 academic year. This proposal was approved by a vote of 
2:J to 16 in yesterday's meeting. 
ThPse \"alue seminars will be structured as one-semester. one­aedit undergraduate courses graded on a satisfactory un­satisfactory 1S,U) basis. The courses will be reviewed by the rE'spective CollPge Councils before being made a University n•quiremt•nt. 
Th{' dean of each college will be responsible for course organization and logistics. He will appoint a college co-ordinators to "'supervise intramural planning and mPet with coordinators from the other colleges for University­wide planning." 
Dean Frederick Crosson of Arts and Letters said he thought next year's ; pilot seminars would use volunteer faculty and randomly­selected seniors, although these seniors would not need the course for graduation. 
Crosson envisoned the volunteer faculty as taking "different ap­proaches to the themes of the courses." After the value seminars are implemented as a llniversity requirement.all faculty will teach the course on a rotating basis. 
A proposed amendment to have the seminars incorporated into the curriculum as a "trial elective" was defeated 19 to 20, as Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Council chairman. cast one of this rare tie-breaking votes. 
The Academic Council sub­sequently approved in a voice vote a new grouping of University requirements for graduation which would make the senior value spminar required for the Class of 1978, the present freshman class. 

This action also serves to for-i"the responsibility of the in; malize de facto University dividual to various committees." requirements which arose from Susan Hicks, representative courses required by all colleges. from the College of Engineering, Every baccalaureate student , stated she favored the idea of the beginning with the current fresh-value seminars. but she "was not men. is now required to sure it will be implemented exactly satisfactorily complete one as written." semPsler of English composition, .:1 think it could be implemented on£> of Freshman Seminar, two a little differently." she continued semPsters of mathematics. two of "'A lot of people thought so. The physical education, two semesters progaram needs exprience," Hicks of natural science, one semester of concluded. 
, 
~··~ 
Dean Frederick Crosson 
social science or history, two semesters of philosophy, two of theology. and one semester of a senior seminar on value. 
The move alllows more requirements to be fulfilled after the freshman year; natural science, and at least one semester of philosophy and theology now must be completed by the end of the sophomore year. 
Crosson t•von semlun 
Crosson. who presented the recommendation on the senior \·alue seminars from a report by the Committee on the Course of Study, declared that he favored the idea of the seminars. He con­tended that students need to think 

about the responsibilities and moral criteria in which they will be directing their lives. 
As possible class themes, Crosson offered professional codes for the initial seminars in the collf'ges of Business Ad­ministration and Engineering. He admitted that experimentation will take place in the College of Arts and Letters suggesting that some classes may oe a!med at the professional fields such as law. 
Crosson added that some seminars would be geared toward 

passes proposal 
•

sentor• sem1nar 
Hicks suggested that the Sf'minar could be taken before the 
sf.'cond Sf'meslf'r of the senior year, 
. ld bh
or t at somf.' semmars cou e • eentf'rf'd ar?unct 
st~dent rather Not publtcaiiB re ease 
than professiOnal ethics. 
Thomas Wilhemy of theCollege of Business Administration maintained that senior year is not the time for a value seminar. He offf'rf'd the sophomorf' yPar as the lwst tim<' for the course. 
"Seniors are morf.' distraclf'd by gradual<' schools and jobs, and tht•y arf' fixf'd in their sensf' of values. "hp explainf'd. 
Wilhemy anticipatf'd seniors being apathetic toward the value ~f'minars. 
Thf' Council also approved by 
voicf' vote a mini-course option for 
departments and programs 
allowing a basic one-half semester 
lurricular unit carrying 1.5 credits. 
The first mini-course could be 
given in the spring semester, 1976. 
The effectiveness of the mini­
murse in adding flexibility to the 
t:-·' rgraduate curriculum will be 
evaluated by the Academic 
Council or another appropriate 
body after a two-year period. 
(continued on page 19) 
Today is the last 
regular issue of 
0 d.~e~tfl-e~t 
America gave up Tt!esday. President Ford okayed "Option 4"--a massive and swift helicopter evacuation--and scores of helicopters swept into Saigon to pick up all Americans who wanted to leave, about 
900. and transported them to ships and carriers waiting in the South China Sea. 
U.S. Ambassador Graham Martin, weary and drawn, stepped from a helicopter and onto the deck of the communications ship USS Blue Hidge--himself the symbol of Ute pullout that saw the Americans leave with Vietnamese screams of "Please take me! Please take me!" still echoing in their ears. 
As gunshots resounded in the streets, flames licked at the aban­doned U.S. embassy that Vietnamese set afire and mortar rounds pounded the city's outskirts, Minh made his brief, sad announcement. 
"All soldiers, be calm and remain where you are now. I also call on soldiers not to open fire so that together we can discuss ways to hand over the reins of government without bloodshed. 
"In the interest of peace, national conciliation and concorn of the people, to save the lives of the people, I believe. deeply in in con­ciliation among the Vietnamese people. 
"Therefore I call on all the soldiers of the Republic of Vietnam to stay where you are. 
"Wf' also call on the soldiers of the Provisional Revolutionary Government VietCong not to open fire because we are waiting to meet with the government of the PRG to discuss the turnover of the ad­ministration, both civilian and military, without causing senseless bloodshf'd to the people." 
It was 150 minutes after the last U.S. evacuation helicopter left. It was 13 days after nieghboring Cambodia fell to the pro-Communist Khmf'r Rouge. 
Even as Minh spoke, Communist forces founght toward the center of thf' city, and by mid-morning Saigon was in panic. Vietnames went on a rampage, looting homes the Americans left a few hours earlier and l'arting off tables, desks, chairs and anything else they could carry from the U.S. embassy before putting it to the torch. 
Looters broke into deserted service stations and carried away helmets filled with gasoline. French businessmen who remained watched the Vietnamese with studied casualness. A soft drizzle of rain underscored the dreariness of the hour. 
Police fired time and again over the heads of crowds to try to control them. Instead it created more panic. On rooftops, Vietnamese waited for rides on the helicopters that would not return. The embassy's compound held more of them. there with the same forlorn hope. Hours 
earlif'r, a young woman plPaded in vain, "Please take my children." A well-dressed man offered $200,000 if someone would lake him from \'if'lnam. 
1 d 




COUL to report 
by Mar_y RPher Starr R£>porter 
The Committee on Un­dergraduate Life is scheduled to present its report to the Board of Trustees at their meeting on campus May 8, 1975. 
The committee's findings will not be released to the public before the meeting, Dr. Robert Acker­man, member of the residentiality subcommittee said. "It will be up to the trustees to decide how they will release the contents of the report," he stated. 
The report belongs to the Trustees since they originated the committee in the first place, Ackerman noted, so it would be appropriate for them to see the results first. The committee members were not elected by the students; instead they were ap­pointed by the Board, so they are responsible to them, he said. 
Mary Ellen Keenan, also a member of the residentiality 't 
be fair for the Board not to see the report first-hand. I hope it will be made available to the students after the meeting." 
"The Board will review the report and hopefully implement the items in the report that they feel are sound," Keenan observed. 
"In October, 1974, student leaders had made a presentation to the Board of Trustees asking them to form a committee to look at the various aspects of student life," Ackerman recounted. "The Committee on Undergraduate Life was formed, consisting of five subcommittees: finance, student life, academics, residentiality, and coeducation." 
Student life subcommittee member Tom Drape observed, "The committee has really only begun to examine the area of student life. It is an area this committee was not able really to go into depth due to the time 
limits and work load of the 
·.~ 
·.'f 


the observer Wednesday, April 30, 1975
2 
I 
I 
r 
warld briefs 

COLUMBUS OHIO UPI -Sen. George McGovern, D-6. D., said Tuesday he is opposed to large numbers of Vietnamese, including orphans and children, being brought to the United States.. 
"I'm opposed to large numbers of Vietnamese coming," McGovern told a news conference. "Not only because I think it is not in our interests. I don't think it is in their interest. I think the Vietnamese are better off in Vietnam, including orphans and the 
babies." 

WASHINGTON UPI -California attorney David Leavitt said Tuesday that black market baby trade has mushroomed in the states that -do not allow "healthy competition" between in­dependent placement and private adoption agencies. Leavitt, of Beverly Hills, who has privately arranged 800 adoptions In the past 16 years, said it is important that the racketHn and babysellers be "put out of business." . 
But he told a Denate subcommlttH lnvutlptlng black market 
baby sales that legislation giving adoption agenclu a "monopoly" 
in child placement is not the answer. · 
"AThe baby buyers are all In states that do not permit a h.ealthy 
competition between agencies and Independent system,'' Leavitt 
said. 
WASHINGTON UPI -President Ford met with Jordan's King 
Hussein Tuesday to review peace efforts In the Middle East. 
In a statement released at the end of the meeting, the White 
House said Ford and Hussein "reviewed the current stte of peace 
efforts in the' Middle East." 
Ford "assured His Majesty that the United States remains 
committed to working for a just and lasting peace in the Middle 
Easf," it said. 

an campus taday 

Wednesday, April 30 4 pm--lacrosse. ND vs Purdue. Stepan Field, free 4 pin--lecture, "cryptate complexes in chemistry", by prof. jean­marl lehn, 123 nieuw. sci hall. 5 pm--vespers,evensong, log chapel. 7:30pm--lecture. "introduction to transcendental meditation", by rovert carsello, rm 249, madeleva. 8pm--lecture, "the palistinian factor and the prospects_ for peace in the middle east", by dr. fayez sayegh, washington hall. 
8:15 pm--concert, chamber music, lib. aud. 
Thursday, May 1 3 pm--lecture,"the roots of the ukiyo-e: japanese woodcuts of the floating world", by ron penkoff,moreau gallery. 4 pm--lecture, "the avant-garde critique", by frederick crews,lib. 
aud. 
4:30 pm--awards ceremony, army rotc caders, stepan center S pm--vespers, evensong,log chapel. s pm--mass, may day mass, fr. griffin, grotto. 7:30pm--address, senior class fellow address, by ara parseghian, eng. aud. 8 pm--drama,"man of Ia mancha" $2,00 stud admission, o'laughlin. aud. 
8:30 pm--lecture,"preserving the dunes," by charlotte read, haggar~hall lounge. 
Friday, May 2 
noon-S pm--adoration of blessed sacrament, benediction at 5 pm, lady chapel of sacred heart. 5 pm--vespers,evensong,log chapel. 8 pm-.drama, "man of Ia mancha", o'laughlin aud. 

Saturday, May 3 11 am--lacrosse.nd "b" team vs. miami of ohio, free, stepan foeld 1:30pm--football. blue and gold game; $2.SO.for adults, so cents for 
children under 15 yrs old, stadium. 
3:30 pm--lacrosse, nd "a" team vs chicago lacrosse club, tree, all invited, stadium. 8 pm--drama,"man of Ia mancha", o'laughlin aud. 8 pm--observer party,"guarenteed blast for all ob­serverites", Heidleberg. 
Sunday, May 3 
2 pm--open house, smc campus 
8:15 pm--concert, nd orchestra, washington hall. 
May 1-11 billy graham crusade, ace. 
Friday, May 16 
6:30 pm--concert, university band, lnd, memorial library mall. 
8 pm--drama,"man of Ia mancha", o'laughlin aud. 
Saturday, May 17 
10 am--rotc commissioning,acc 
11 am--phi beta kappa installation, lib aud. 2 pm--kniversity reception, oy the officers of the university, families of graduates inveted,cen. for con. ed. ":30. pm--graduates assemble for academic procession,acc 
4:45 pm--Academic procession begins,acc 5:pm--baccalaureate mass, ace. 
6:30 pm--cocktail party and buffet, tickets for each must be pur­chased in advance, ace 
8:30 pm--drama"man of Ia mancha" o'laughlin aud. Sunday, May 18 

11:30 amlm--box lunch, north and south dining h;~lls 1 pm--d1ploma distribution, ace. 
1:35 pm--academic procession begins, ace 2 _,m..commencement and conferring of degree:;, ace. 
•' 
THt N K ...

Chemistry professar·awarded 
Cl1lEGE LIFE 


Air Force Merit Certificate 
INSURANCE CO.OF AMERICA Dr. G. Frank D'Aielio, research now is a research chemist with the ,_____,...~!"""_._____,.. professor of chemistry at the Air Force Materials Laboratory. 
University of Notre Dame, An expert in the fields of received the Air Force Certificate polymerization, rubber, plastics, of Merit Friday <April 25) for his and fibers, D' Alelio holds more research contributions to the than 400 patents' and is noted for development of resins for light­the discovery of resins which weight, high-strength airplane permitted the cheap production of structures. penicillin and other antibiotics. He 


D 'Alelio was honored par­joined Notre Dame in 1955 as ticularly for his discovery of new chairman of the Department of 


!ATTENTION 

polymers capable of withstanding Ctlemistry and after five years was high temperatures yet readily named research professor. processable at reasonable tem­D'Aielio was graduated from 
ALL 

peratures and pressures. He Boston College and Johns Hopkins received a decade· of support for University. He has been affiliated· his polymer research from the Air with Koppers Company, Inc., 

RADUATIN 

Force Materials Laboratory, Pittsburgh, as vice president and· Wright-Patterson Air Force Base research manager, Industrial· \Ohio). Rayon Corp., Cleveland, as 

STUDENTS 

The certificate, a plaque and manager of high polymer letter of appreciation were research, and Prophy lacitic Brush presented to D'Aielio by a former Co., Noorthampton, !\lass .. as vice 
Measurements 

student, Dr. Robert C. Evers, who president and directorof r~~~arch . 
will be taken 

K of C announces new officers 
for 

The Notre Dame Knights o~ include: Joseph Antonelli, Grand Columbus ended the curren_ Knight; Steven Lucero, Deputy academic year lst evening with the Grand Knight; Ted Plis, Chan­announcement of newly elected cellor; Dan Mellett, Warden;Terryl officers, the presentation of a O'Laughlin, Inside Guard; uoug 


CAPS 

Knight of the Year award, and the Meyers, Outside Guard; Dave announcement that the ND post Medley, Recorder; Jay Scanlon, was in top contention for the Treasurer; Chris DiDiana, Ad­
and

membership award among K of C vocate. The Ladies of Columbus college councils. The Knights of also held an election in which Ann Columbus increased its mem­Bennett and Mary McCGrmick bership this year by 133, an in­were elected co-coordinators of the crease over last year of 33 percent, Ladies of Columbus . 
GOWNS 
•mder the direction of Chancellor ~ nd Membership Chairman 
The Observer is publiShed dally 

EVERY DAY
fa trick Keating. 
during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame Mid St. 
For this direction, Keating was 
Between
designated with the Knight of the 
Mary's College. Subscriptions
Year Award by Grand Knight 
may be purchased for S9 per
Thomas Dechant. 
semester (S16 per year) from The 
NOW 
Observer Box· Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class
They newly elected officers 
promised to maintain the good 
and
po!.lage paid, Notre Dame. Ind.
leadership exhibited by this year's 
46SS6. 
officers. Newly elected officers 

MAY2 

Marantz -Sony 
This is the Harmon/Kardon-Pioneer-Crown 
Defir!te at 
Deadline 
9:00-4:00



THE STEREO SCENE 
Wholesale Prices on HiFi at the Equipment & Accessories 

NOTRE

Fast Dependable Service! ! 
lt•xtt'JII fail' trade items) 
DAME

287-1400 
ASK ABOUT MAXELL 


BOOKSTORE

::::n:! :\IISIIt\. AVK, •1 1\IILE PAST HIVER PARK THEATER 

WIN A 10 SPEED 
BICYCLE 
AND CRUISE THE QUAD IN STYLE THIS SPRING! 
The Purchase of Any PRO TOOTHBRUSH at Notre Dame Bookstore 
Will Give You a Chance to Win This Bicycle ENTER TODAY·· 

t 


I 

Graduate proposal d.iscussed 
by Maureen Flynn "There is a diminishing interest in the kinds of programs The propOsed merger could strengthen aspects of the 
Staff Reporter we've had in the past"'Mc Cabe stated. "Quite a few graduate program or it could weaken them, Bartlett said, 
faculty members have left in the last few years and there but urged,"All our options must be addressed, studied, 
A proposal to phase out the Department of Graduate has been a corresponding drop in applications for and evaluated. What's the best route for us to take? I Studies in Education was discussed at an April 11th enrollment in department." hope we use this time before the proposal comes before meeting among education department faculty, Vice­
the Academic Council to explore the basic options, to president for Advanced Studies Dr. Robert Gorden, and Possible merger with psychology dt'partment make recommendations, and to endorse recom­Dt•an of Arts and Letters Frederick Crosson. 
mendations." Bartlett concluded. As far as the Couns~ling Psychology program is con­"Mergers do not take place successfully without con­The proposal. which must be approved by the Academic cerned. McCabe noted that the possibility of a merger siderable background thought," Professor JohnCouncil. calls for the termination of the graduate studies with the Psychology Department was suggested almost Borkowski. chairman of the Psychology Departmentprogram in Religious Dimensions of Education and the two years ago. Last year a committee, made up of agreed. and expressed the opinion that a great deal oftransfer of the Counseling Psychology program from the membe·rs of both bodies and headed by William Liu, consideration has been given to the proposaLGraduate Education Department to the Psychology 
Associate Dean of the College of Arts and Letters and
Dt•partment of the College of Arts and Letters. 
t_lndt>rgraduate vs. graduate educzation
director of the Center for the Study of Man in Con­
All students currently enrolled in the Religious 
temporary Society, was appointed to study the feasibility 
Dimensions program, however, will be allowed to com­Borkowski acknowledged that there are differences 
of such a project. The committee submitted its report last
plete their degrees. "The date for complete phase-out," between the two programs and attributed many of them 
!\lay.

t>xplained Gordon, "is August 1977." He also noted that no to the basic contrast between undergraduate and 
"I suspect there are reservations on both sides," stated
students were admitted to the program this year and that graduate education. Minimizing the disparities between 
none have been accepted for 1975-76. Dr. Willis Bartlett, associate professor of graduate laboratory-based research and field research, the studies in education and former chairman of the depart­
'department chairmen noted that "it is impossible· to 
nates back to department change ment. "We need to look at out options and evaluate the separate the two because most laboratory research has The rational!:' behind the proposed move dates back to a pros and cons. What are our priorities, and what applied implications." 
arrangements will meet those priorities best?"
change in the education department two years ago. At Borkowski stated that the incorporation of the Coun­that timt> programs in administration, history of t>du­seling Psychology program into the Department of
Bartlett was personally concerned that the merger "might do away with the· professional orientation and
cation instruction, and religious education were combined Psychology would most likely result in a "slightly under the heading ''Heligious Dimensions in Education," autonomy"of the present program. At the same time he stronger research emphasis," but stressed that the and a moratorium was placed on admissions to that questioned the "feasibility of remaining a small depart­graduate program would still retain "its basic features, 
ment on a large university." 
program by the vice-president for advanced studies. Last goals. and purposes." fall. however, the education department faculty voted to Emphasizing his neutrality on the issue, Bartlett noted, In addition, Borkowski predicted that a merger would suspend programs in history of education, instruction, "We haven't discussed our differences to see if they can result in widening of perspective for the undergraduate and general administration in favor of a new degree in he resolved or if we can reach a com promise.'' One major program by providing a "more humanistic flavor and Ht>ligious Dimensions. difference Bartlett pointed out is the orientation of the t•nriched course offerings." 
According to Gordon, the faculty proposal would have graduate program toward practical fieldwork as opposed Counseling, Borkowski pointed out, is a part of cost 33 percent more than the existing program. He cited to the undergraduate emphasis on research and ex­psychology. The Psychology Department, he feels, could t>conomic stress as a factor in the administration's perimt•ntation. provide the graduate program with "a home. It could decision to reject the suggested move. Gordon attributed "My main concern," Bartlett explained,"is that we give it a basis from which to work." The psychology the subsequent counter-proposal to phase out that mamtain the high calibre of our current program." He chairman cautioned, however, that it is difficult to ven­segment of the department completely to a Jack of faculty observed that the Notre Dame graduate program in ture a real opinion of such a proposal without knowing the interest in continuing the programs and to an unusual Counseling Psychology is one of only twenty accreditied details. number of faculty members leaving the department. by !hi:' American Psychological Association. New , The proposal will probably come before the Academic 
Sheridan P. McCabe, Director of the Counseling Center programs are usually given a provisional accreditation Council when it meets next fall, or perhaps the following !which is affiliated with the Counseling Psychology when first accpted, Bartlett said, but the ALPA "was so January. If the project is approved, the merger will most program l, explained the phase-out in similar terms. impressed they gave us the full five year accreditation." likely go into effect the followin& academ~c year. 



Mag commencement announced 
d{'rs and check on them to make lending a hand with the great "Man of La Mancha" at SMC, and b~· .John :\. Kenward been closely associated with 
~ta H Ht>portt>r CommPncemt>nt plans and had sun• they are followed through. amount of diploma preparation. on the timt•s for diploma distribution 
Wt•'vt> bet>n doing this for some tht>ir free limP. and the start of the Com­lwgun them t•arly in January. 
At that time the compiling of the years now and it is becoming fairly As of now. a general program mt•ncemt•nt ceremony. ThePlans for the !30th Annual routine--though in ways it is still has ht>t>n announced that includes a gent>ral program schedule appearsCommt·ncement excerises, to take list of those graduating or ~ind of interesting," she said.. l'onct>rl in the Memorial Library in Cin ('ampus Today of this issue.
place Sunday, May 18th. and ac­rt'Cl'iveng Masters or Ph.D 
dl'grt•es ht>gan. Taking into ac­Waechter added that many others 1\lall. Phi Bt>ta Lappa installations, \ Major items yet •mfinished arecompanyin&t•vents of the weekend case in tht> Ht>gistrar's Officed not a University reception, Bac-the details of the speakers' plat-are being finalized. the Hegistrar's count adds, as in the of 
directly connected to the makinll of calaun•ate Mass in the ACC, a . . _Office reported Tuesday. .Juniors qualified to graduate at the the plans have been very helpful in cocktail party. performances of t( onunued on page~ l
Handling of Commencement has Pnd of the semrster. and also drops bet>n done by the Registrar's Office from the list. orders for the in­
for many years. The reason for dividual diplomas were sent to the ----------------------------------------~ 
this is the desire for maximum company who produces them on 
I THE LIBRARY !
Ft•bruarv 15.

t'f f i c i en c y . Assistant 
Registrar Beverly Waechter On April 7 they arriver to be I I saw. checked. placed in blue <:dses, and "The Hegistrar's Office is mveloped in white be!ore packing 
IAnnounces EXAM Week Specials !
probably th~ only office on campus in open boxes according to college 
qualified for this work," Waechter of graduation and alphabetical 
I I 
stated. "We know about grade order. 
ehanges and keep up on honors. In Though planning for Com­
I Mon. -May 5th I
this office we know who is in and mencement involves much work, 
who is not in school." she added. Waechter expressed the opinion I I 
Hose Patterson. serving as, "Wt> can handle it. Our main Commencemmt Clerk for the first 1 
duties in Commencement 

I -all the chicken you can eat -$2 ! 
time this year. and Waechter have organizing have been to give or­

(ut out the dollar. brmg tf w,th you whtn 'fO'J

HERE'S ADOL~R 
FOR YOUR HEAD. 
SI off your b.tl. llot only do you sow o bud:, but ·. the gorls ore going to 

-----------------.... rr.oke you look great 
r FOR APPOINTMENT CALL ~~~~~~:sto::t': 
255·8600 
:deal 

CRB master 
stylists rn 

HAIR CARE FOR MEN 


I I 
II Tues. May 6th $2.00 large pizzasiI I -so~ au mixed drinks i 
I I 
I I 
II Wed. May 7th II II -complete rib • $1.95 II 
I I 
II Thurs. -May 8 Hurricanes -$1 II I complete lasagna dinner-$1.75 I 
I I
IRemember -Library Corry-out for all your party needs.l 
I We hope everyone does well on exams. I 
I I.1 .. ·-, ,, ·< ......-~ See you in Sept. I 
TOWN & COUNTRY. MINI-MALL I MISHAWAKA, IND. 46544 I. · ..1 
1.~~~~~~~~~,_~~----~-------...~......~it . ~............................................................................ 


-



---·~------~------------~----------------------------------------. 4 the observer Wednesda'y," April 30,197s' 
'Routinely admitted' 

Intruder robs Badin· residents 
(iallagher decided to wait until theby .Jt>anne Murphy to report incident,
(iut>st Heporter next day the 

"until someone in Security knew what to do." She refused to com­
An intruder identified as a young mPnt on the thefts.
black male reportedly entered two Both victims and the residentunlockPd rooms on the third floor who admitted the intruder !ap­

of Badin last Thursday around 8:45 parently the friend who called the p.m. and stole a watch from one girl sleeping) perused throughroom and a calculator from the mug shots at Security of both maleolht'r. 

studPnts and men from town fitting Tht• man. approximately twenty the description of the thief. Theto twt•nty-two years of age, was 
woman who watched the man··routint>ly admitted' into the dorm t•nter and leave the other roomhy a rPsidt>nt who heard him picked not a student whom sheknocking at the card-lock door, identified as the visitor.
according to a University Bulletin issuPd by I>Pan of Students John 1\lachPca. :\I al'ht'ca's Bulletin 

Tht> allegt>d thief proceeded to ilw third floor and was spotted ·Every attempt will be made to t•ntl'ring a room by a nParby neigh­apprehend the individual, but this bor. who consequPntly was one of will only be possible with the ilw \·ictims. 
cooperation of students," Machecal'pon lt-aving hPr room slightly PxplainPd in the directive which ajar for tht> bathroom. she watched was posted in the women's dorms. 
tlw man lt•an• tht> room but turn 

"Student cooperation is also 
\1 hl'n lw saw her as if hP had left nt>t>ded with regard to their soml'thing lwhind. ''He had the \ igilance and responsibility for look likP hl' forgot somPthing," shP ~ecurity in their residence nalls." 

daiml'd. Whm shl' returnt>d to her room. 

"If the student had not been 
shl' notict>d that ht>r watch was gin•n unquestioned access to the m1ssing. ShP thPn saw thP man dormitory. if the one girl had coming out of lhP othPr room. locked her door while shP was 
Appan•ntly ht> Jpft the dorm aslt>ep. and if the other girl had shortly thPreafter, "but I think he lockt>d ht-r door even when she was would hav<' stayPd, if I hadn't seen only going out for a few minutes, him." sht> statPd. 
then neither of these losses would No otht>r room was reported havt> occurrPd," it continued. hrokPn into· 
"There is no way that the 
Tht> rPsidt>nt who saw the man Jnivt>rsity can provide security rPturm·d from a prior commitmPnt .vht>n tht> basic means of security la!Pr that Pvt>ning and inquired re not utilized by the students," wht>lh(•r th<' man was a friend of •1acheca concluded. tht> girls whosP room he had en­tt•rt>d. Tht> woman was unaware that anyon<' had come into her room bPcause she was asleep, "What else can you do? It is too although thP room was not locked. bad you have to lock your doors all 
Tht>woman. who also wished to tht> limP even to go across the rPmain anonymous, awoke when a hall." one resident commented in rri(•nd callt>d ht>r on the phone at response to the bulletin. approximatPiy 8:40 p.m. and Another Badinite agreed with v.;antPd to SPP hPr in the basemPnt l\1acheca 's call for more respon­of thP dorm. . sibility on the part of the students. 
Upon rPlurning to her room "'The only way to solve the security 1round 9:15 p.m. sh<' discoverPd problem is to Pnforce the call hat ht>r calculator was missing systt>m in the basPment when a bt>causP the casP was Pmply, but guy comt's to visit thP girls. But WP thought anothPr resident came in can't bP t>XpPCIPd to keep our whilt> shP was sleeping and doors locked whPn we cross the borrowt>d it. "I did not even realize hall to lhP bathroom." that a guy was in thP room at all," sht> commPnlt>d. 
Tht> two victims informPd the rector. Ms. Ht>len Gallagher. about the tht>fts. who in turn called St>curity. According to the women, 

f: COME RAIN OR SHINE 

Suspended players 



TO TOWN &COUNTRY
·to return to NO 
Last .July 25. a University press 


FOR YOUR FAVORITE
rell•ast' citl'd thP dismissal oi six l'<otrl' l>aml' frt>shman football playt•rs "for a pt>riod of no less than um• aeadPmic year" because of a sl'rious violation of University rull's whieh was ·•not a criminal 





WINES-LIQUORS
maltl'r. .. .-\t this point. it is not known 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM
whPthl•r thl' studt>nts will be reinstatPd. but several sources Canadian LTD 410 Jose Cuervo 
hdiPn' at lt•asP five of the six BLEND -______ 625
5th 
st udt•nts han• applied for read­TEQUILA 5th mission to thl' University. Usher's Green Stripe 
American 5 Star 
Huy I h·nry is the only suspended SCOTCH _____ _ 575 .488 
playPr who has not yet reapplied, 5th BRANDY 5th according to a rt>liable sourcP close 
Early Times Ron Querida
to tht> tt•am. 539 
Thl' six studPnt-athletes, Henry, BOURBON ___ _ RUM ______ .. __
5th 395 548
Hoss BrownPr. Luther Bradley, AI 
Canada On
lluntPr. Willie Fry and Dan Knott, Galliano Italian wt'n' rt>portedly dismissed for an 
VODKA. ____ .. _ 5th LIQUEUR __ . 12-oz.
inl'idt>nt involving an 18 year-old high school girl. No one was BostonGIN .. House Arak Ruouk 
l'onviclPd, indicted or even for­_______ .. _ 407 
~ 
mally complained against, ac­5th LIQUEUR ••• 20-0Z. 752 ~ 
cording to the St. Joseph County PolicP Record. FREE ( Tht• Notre DamP Admissions 
DELIVERY
f Office refused to divulge any in­
) formation rPgarding the students, pPnding the notification of read­mission to the students involved. 
The Athletic Office also refused to comment. Edward <Moose) KrausP stated, however, "We'll havp to see whay happens in the admission process and naturally wt>'d.like to see the boys return, but 1)\is :;ituation has never occurred ~on· -so we don't know:" · 
( 

-~~---------------------------------~------~---------------------­

I 1 
j 
Mclean 
by Bob Radziewicz Graduating Staff Reporter 
Since its foundation in the fall of 1967, the Om­
budsman has t'Stablished itself as a reputable source of 
mformation and service to the entire Notre Dame 
community. While the Notre Dame version of the 
famous Scandanavian organization struggled through 
lht' latt' 1960's unsettled in its purpose or organizational 
structure, the Ombudsman service today has jelled 
into an t'ffective and reliable arm of student govern­
mt'nt, an accomplishment attributed by many to the 
dt'votion and energies of Bill McLean, the "Wizard of 
Om'' himself. 
McLean, a senior economics major from Chicago, Illinois, has been service director for the past three years, originally appointed to the office in September of 1972 by Student Body President R. C. "King" Kersten. 
"They gave me the job because I was a sophomore and they figured I couldn't do much harm. Student governmt'nt was a joke anyways under Kt'rsten," McLean reflec­ted. "But I was serious about this, and I decided to make something )f the Ombudsman," he added. 
McLean's interest in helping Jthers and working in student govt'rnment began in his freshman yt'ar. HI:' put together a short documt'ntary on the many facets of Notre Dame for a Freshman St'minar project. McLean felt this was a particularly good ex­perience, because it put him in i touch with the whole community at 
largt'--lhe administration, the faculty, and the studt'nls. Tht'se associations would later benefit him and tht' Ombudsman service in opening channels. of information and communication among the various st'clors of Notre Dam!:'. 
"(' an•taker" operation 
In lht' second semt'ster of his first year here, McLean 
spPnl much of his free time working around the 
student government offices. He was able to get an 
unusual amount of exposure to the dealings of student 
govt'rnmt'nt because, "by February, most of the 
people \\We off campaigning for the upcoming student 
body prpseident elections. So I looked at my being up 
tht>rP as a caretaker type of operation," the Om­
budsman .director explained. This "caretaker" 
opt•ration continued after the elections too, because in 
lhP final six WPeks of school. with Kt>rstPn as the new 
st udenl body president. "Pveryone was sort of 
disgusted with thE' wholE' situation and didn't feel like 
working for nothing." 
Om• incidPnt which McLean recalled as a turning 
pomt or rathPr a beginning for his service to the Notre 
DamP community was when he had gone over to get 
lhe signature of John Barkett, Kersten's predecessor 
in office. on some checks. 
"Tht•re sat Barkett, sick not only with the flu but also with the realization that tht' students had just elected a JOkP, and ht' kind of mumblt'd, 'where did the time go'''." McLPan rt'lated. "And I think that's what motiyatt>d m(• to go after the job to begin with. I figured thai I~ I was gomg to go and try to do something, and I wasn I yet sur!:' what I was going to do, I at least rPalizt'd th~t it was going to take lim!:'; it was going to lakt' PX(}('rii:'nce. which only time could give mt'," he said. 
After ht' look over the Ombudsman post in the fall of 
1972, McLean looked to his friends for help in im­
plt'mt'nting the service. "Things started rolling with 
lht' help of my rommate then, John McLaughlin, now a 
law studt>nt at Catholic University in Washington, 
D.C., and Brian McGinty and Barry Cleary, both who 
art' now Notre Dam!:' seniors," McLean cited. "With 
lht'se lhrt'e guys as a nucleus--today you'd call them 
officers--wt' t'nlisted twt'nty-two students to man the 
Ready to Commence Your Search for Quality Employment? In today's employment market, how well are you prepared to learn of, and then to obtain, the position best for your career development? "The Searc~ for Quality Employment" shares with you the knowledge, gained through years of experience, of a successful employment recruiter. Learn, step by step, how you can initiate, conduct, and successfully complete your own search for quality employment. You can prove to yourself that employers do not hire the best qualified applicant --they hire the "siz!l.~"', not the steak! Discover how to develop your own "sizzle" in the pages of '~The Search for Quality Employment". For your copy, send $10.00 {~9.25, plus $.75 postage and handling) cash, checka money order to: 
Career Research Associates, 200 S. Hanley, Suite 212, Clayton, Missouri 63105. If not satisfied, return within 10 days for r~~ur.d o_f purchase pr,ice.... -. . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .•.· ... , ... 
.. 4 ••• " 
..' 
'.
. • • • •••· ,, .. , ·• '• r.-•: ·.' •. l-i £ • 'I f t t t ~ ~ ; 1 ! t t ' ' • l t t ' t ' i I. ' '" • • " ,· •l -• • • ~ 
Wednesday, April 30, 1975 the observer 5 

-the Ombu.dsman 
phones and we were off and running," he added. calls had been handled, and the 
The structure of the Ombudsman service then was service continued to expand its set up into three groups; the operations division, which staff size to one hundred and fifty t'ncompasses the phone service which students, faculty students. Some of the major en­or administration could call for help in solving a deavors which the Ombudsman variety of problems; the personnel division, which was involved in this year include incorporated the concept of recruiting a staff and supplying manpower to work at getting people involved; and the information division, Darby's Place and Junior Parents which included the Ombudsman Resource Manual with Weekend, organization and im­its listings of the administration, student government plementation of the "Quickie" bus officers, University committees and other University service to Michigan, an ac­
services. complishment recognized by "These three divisions are the backbone of the President Ford in his address to Ombudsman service today," McLean explained. "If the University in March, and 
supplying manpower at the last minute to· insure bus tran­sportation to and from the Homecoming Dance in St. Joe, 
Michigan. and working m student body elections which came off "without a hitch" 
"Ready refert>nce service" 
Mrs. Mary McCabe, assistant dean of students, described the Ombudsman a "ready reference service" and called the organization "a tribute to McLean. He really stands for the Om­budsman service--organized, 
. energetfc and resourceful," McCabe added. She also finds the activities calendar and resource 
lnPIRG Presents Charlotte Read and Herbert Read 
Ombudsman Bill Mclean wP don't havt' somt'ont' on that phone providmg some lypt' of answPrs or rt'ferences to the questions or disst'minating information or have the people to match lht• problems, then wt''re not fulfilling our purpose. And wht'ther WI:' run "Quickie" buses, the best in town, or hP!p out at Darby's Place, WI:' won't be doing our job. Our job. first and foremost, is that phone service, providing information and communication to those 
who want it," McLean said. "By the end of that first yt'ar." ht' reflectt'd, "WI:' had handled close to 
two r:========================::!
thousand calls and had a working staff of over forty • 
pt'oplt•. That was an increase of a hundred percent over lht' prt>vious year." 
In 1973, when McLean again was re-appointed by Sludt'nt Body Prt'sident Dt'nnis "H-Man" Etienne, the Ombudsman servict' look another step in organization through lhP t>slablishmt'nt of an Executive Board, which Pxpandt>d opt'rations by developing three di\·isions gean•d lo anticipatt' future trouble areas and utilize availablt' manpower "in dt'aling more directly with lh<' community's <'Vt'r-changing needs." 
During his second year in command. McLean also instituted. in cooperation with the Observl'r, an "Action I<:xpress" column to convey general in­formation on topics of interest to the student body. Also altha! limP. final foundations were being laid in terms 
Ombudsman sPrvict' "to fully rt'alize its objectives that wt•n• inht•rent in each division's stated purpose." 
(;uidt•lint•s described 
1\kLPan dt>scribes the guidelines under which the servicP operates as bt'ing: responsiveness and n•sponsibility to the net'ds of ND; facilitation of communication within the community; anticipation of present and future needs; development of manpower that is "ready, willing and able to respond at any time lo any situation"; and finally continuity that promotes a good n'putation of dependability which in turn gPnerates "credit". 
In 1974, w1th McLean again being re-appointed as director of the Ombudsman, the service continued to maintain and open new channels of communication for the student body. By the year's end, an estimated five thon"l\nd phon!:' 
THE POSTER PLACE 
100 11 x17 POSTERS ONLY $9.10 
INSTY PRINTS 
203 N. MAIN ST. SOUTH BEND 289-6977 

discussing Saving the Dunes by stopping the Bailly Nuclear Plant citizen action against 
NIPSCO-AEC Thursday May 1, 
8:30 pm Haggar Hall Lounge Free 

manual, both of which are put out by McLean's group, "invaluable." The assistant dean of students considered the support Om­budsman gives to Darby's Place another important achievement. 
"The Ombudsman service has taken on his personality," Fr. Dave Schlaver, director of Student Activities, commented. "However, this can be bad because it obliterates the past and makes the future uncertain because it has taken on the person of Bill McLean so much. I think that he might possibly spend too much time working as Ombudsman, but that is his own style," Schlaver pointed out. The Student Activities director did cite the phone service as a major asset to campus life. 
In closing out his three years of service to the ND community, McLean singled out one group of women who were particularly invaluable to his success. 'The secretaries in the administrative offices at Notre Dame are more like administrative aides than secretaries. And without their help and cooperation, the Ombudsman service would not be where it is today," McLean noted. 





CIA bombings still 
Bv .1:\MES LAWRENCE Mrs. Sommerville said her there immediately follows a ties in cities on~ both the East .DENVER <UPI> -A pipe day, shattering windows and husband was in Texas and said, rash of others," he said. "What and West coasts," a depart­bomb explosion outside a shredding portions of the roof "I know people are connecting with all the publicity in the ment spokesman said. "We Central Intelligence Agency on the one-story brick house in this with his job but there's no papers about the CIA, it could don't know if this was the work official's suburban home may south Denver. Windows in a real .oroof. I real!v can't say have been a radical group. Who of a terrorist group or whether have been caused by radicals house next door were broken. what happened. I was asleep at can say?" it might have been just some 

1 J Bricks were blown from the the time. The explosion woke bank hours earlier, or may front wall and the explosion me up." have been the work of a 
inspired the bombing of a 
damaged a sprinkler system Bomb squad Detective Fred ''crackpot", police said Tues­inside the house but neither Stevenson said the blast did not Sommerville's wife, Allane, nor appear related to the explosion
day. 
The bomb exploded in front their 14-year-old son, asleep at of a dynamite satchel charge at of the home of CIA regional the time of the blast, were the American National Bank in injured. Denver 12 hours earlier in
director James Sommerville 30 
which six employes received minor injuries. He said the pipe bomb was
COUL to release reports 
pushed against the foundation of the Sommerville home and <~:ontinut>d rrom pagt> 1) offering comments and revisions," said it may have been planted Eder stated. by radical~ who got the idea
members of the committee," he 
Some of the topics discussed hv from the bank explosion.
said. 
the topics discussed by the com­"You get one bombing and
"April I had been set as the 
mittee included registration and
original target date· for the com­
availibilty of courses, alternate
mittee's report last October," 
forms of courses such as work­
Ackerman noted, "but that date 
study attitudes to coeducation,
was adjusted along the way." 
womrn on the facutlty, women's
Academics subcommittee 
sports programs. possible im­
chairman Jim Eder said the 
provrments in halls, the funding of 
deadline for their findings was 
club sports. ticket pricing, rising
reset for April 11. The reports 
tuition costs, the role of hall staffs, 
came in through Wednesday, April 
coed housing. off-campus living,
16. Former SBP Pat McLaughlin, 
the effectiveness ofthe SLC, the
Drape, and Ackerman then 
office of student affairs, and rules
compiled them into a single report 
and rrgulations as they affect
adding an introduction and con­
studentws, according to
clusion. The first draft was then 
McLaughlin.
finished by April 21 and the 
The final report numbered ap­
following day the committee 
porximately 112 pages, according
members were invited to come up 
to Drape.
to the Student Government office 
Student Body President Ed
and look over their final reoort. 
Byrne hopes to continue the work begun by COUL by forming other
Graduation 
committees or possiblity working 
set May 17 
Salnt Mary's College will hold its !28th annual commencement Saturday. May 17, at 3 p.m. . AimPe Sue Bt>ckmann. daughter of 1\lr. and Mrs. John J. Beck­mann. Ankeny, Iowa, will give the vaiPdictory address before the 355 graduates, their parents, faculty, adm inisl rat ion. and honored guPsls during Commencement 
;. l'!'remoniPS. 
In addition to Dr. !<:Iisabeth Sl'wdl. enmnwncemmt speaker, honorary dPgn•es will be presented to Dr. Elisabeth Kubler-Hoss. mtPrnational consultant in the care of dying patients and their familiPs; Carol Fox, general manag<'r of lhP Lyric Opera of ('hil'ago; and Eli J. Shaheen. prt•sid<'nl of Sutton Tool Company,
I Sturgis. 1\lichigan. and friend of I he Collt•gt•.
{ Finals Fling 
II 
Tht> Notre DamP Social Com­mission will offer its final activity this war. a dance Friday night in Step~m Cmter from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Tlw Finals Fling will feature
'( 
1\uslt•r. a band from Chicago.~{ Admission will be $1 and refresh­l nwnts will be free. 
~· 
/( 


R·iv£R. 'f>pj~i<
........,.......... . 
I 
llliiMAWAICA AYI. AJ aont. 
~ 
STARTS FRIDAY
J 
I 
INGMAR BERGMAN'S 
1 
{t 
~ 
1/
1/ 
!{ 
1( 
!) 
1 
If 


SCENES FROM
( ( 
A MARRIAGE 
i( 
~-o 

LIV ULLMAN 

to 




Up 
o/o
Closeouts, Overstocks, Reductions. 
'­
I 
•
The tor store. 
100 CENTER COMPLEX.• Mishawaka, Indiana Phone .259-0880 
-"We're talking with authori· 
erackpot." 
TIMM PARTY STORE 
OPEN Mon-Sat 9:00 A.M.-11 :00 P.M. Sun 12:00-11:00 P.M. PACKAGE LIQUOR AVAILABLE 
COLD BEER, WINE, GOURMET FOODS 

3114 S. 11th St. Niles, Mi. 
683-9875 



many selections. 

.---------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------........ 
w__"-~--~-~y,_A~p~r_ii_H~·~'~'7~s________~t~h~e~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r____ 7 


Pifer to speak at commencement 
Alan J. Pifer. president of the administering the Fulbright Education, the most extensive special counsel to the minority of the Hand Corporation, Santa Carnegie Corporation of New York Program in the United Kingdom 
study ever made of higher the House of Representatives Monica, Calif., doctor of and the Carnegie Foundation for between 1948 and 1953. He joined Pducation. Committee on the Judiciary in the Pngineering. the Advancement of Teaching, will the Carnegie Corporation in 1953 as Pifer will receive a doctor of impeachment inquiry respecting Aut~or and publisher Frank 
he th'e speaker at the University of an executive aSsistant and became Jaws degree. Others to be honored President !\ixon doctor of Jaws. Sh!'('d, .Jersey City, N.J., doctor of Notre Dame's 130th com­vice president of the corporation by thl:' University are: Congresswoman Barbara laws. nwncemt>nt exercises May 18 in and vice president of the Carnegie Arthur J. DPcio, chairman of the .Jordan of the 18th District in Alice Tully, New York, N.Y., a 
the Athletic and Convocation Foundation for the Advancement hoard of the Skylinl:' Corporation, TPxas, doctor of Jaws. noted music patron and formPr C<>nter. of TPaching in 1963, acting Elkhart, Ind., doctor of laws. ChancPllor William D. McElroy sing<'r. doctor of fine arts. prPsident of both in 1965 and Dr. Peter F. Druckl:'r, Clarke of the llnlversity of California at ThP 1975 Laetare Ml'dal, givl:'n
Pifer will be among ten persons 
prt>sidl:'nt of both in 1967. Professor of Social St'rvice at San Diego. who is president-elect annually hy the l Tniversity to anr<>ceiving honorary doctorates 
Clarl:'mont I C'alif.) Graduate of the American Association for outstanding American Catholic.
Dame graduation
from Notre at 111• has held numProus positions School and a noted management thP Advancl'ment of Science, will he awarded during com­
l't•n•monies in which a total of 2,062 on state national
local. and 
thl:'orist. doctor of Jaws. doctor of laws. nwncl:'m<>nt exl:'rcises to Sist<>r Ann
dPgrees are expected to be con­
organizalions. principally in the Nancy Hanks, chairman of the llr. Donald B. Hice, a Notrl:' ·Ida Gannon, B.V.l\1., president offprred. 
areas of foreign affairs. Pducation National I<:ndowmmt for the Arts, !>amP alumnus who is president of 1\lundPlin College. Chicago, Ill. 
Educated at Harvard College, and urban problems. He also Washington, D.C., doctor of fin!:' l'ift>r did a year of graduate study originated, supported and par­arts. on a fellowship to Cambridge ticipated in the Carnegie Com­Albl:'rt K Jl:'nner, Jr., a Chicago 
THE MINNESOTA CLUB 
llniversitv in England before mission on the Future of Higher attorney who served as chief 
BAGGAGE TRUCK 
loading up -May 12th l :30-4:30
World Hunger Coalition raises funds 
Behind the bookstore 
A total of close to $1126 has been OXF:\1\1. COHH and the South hopP for the upcoming year in rais1•d by the Notre DamP World BPnd .Just ice and P<>ace CPnter. regard to the Hunger Coalition's 
Pick up -May l 5th 4:30-9:30 
I 
llungl'r Coalition as a result of four Tlw differPnce will be allocated act1vrtres. "On b('half of the 
1 
hundrPd and seventy studPnts shorly. according to Brinegar. Coalit ion and oth('rs. I'd like to 
1931 GOODRICH ST.PAUL 
, ~ 
fasting from supper the past five OthPr fund raising pfforts of the sinePrdy thank the students who 
~ 
WPdnPsdays. Notn• DamP community include: supportPd our dforts throughout 
N.D. BOXES $2.50 COUCHES $8.00
t l AI SondPj's collection of over the year and urge thl'm to continue"Hopt'fully. others will rPalize $J:l.li00 from eontributions thPir int1•n•st and support until 
LARGE BOXES $3.50 CHAIRS $5.00
that if less than fiv(' hundred l'OIJPctPd in front of both dining thPrt' is no mort> hungPr probl('m to 
BIKES $4.00 FOOTLOCKERS $5.00
stud1•nts can raise over one 
halls from SPpt. 15 to May 7. all1•viatt'," hP eoncluded. 
Ihousand dollars by sacrificing :! lTlw saving of over $2500 from theonly fiw nwals !'Very five Wl'Pks, 
Any questions Tom at 8414
cut I ing of thP quality of food 
South Bend mayor.
thPn much. mueh more. can be 
l'onsum1•d hy th(' Holy Cross
rais1•d with more participation over 
l'ri1•sts and hroth1•rs.
th1• span of a whole school war. So 
:n Faculty and Staff payroll to discuss issues 
much can lw accomplish('d with deductions amounting to ov('ron)~· a lit tiP sacrifice." Chris $1:!.000. South Bend Mayor Jerry Miller 
Bt·im•gar. l'rPsident of thl:' World . .
Tlw llung1•r Coalition's plans for will make a campaign appearance 9 HOLE • PAll 3 GOLF COURSE
llung!•r Coalition statl:'d. 
rwxt yt>ar include: the continuation Thursday on the Notrl:' Dame Driving Range 18 Hole Miniature 
In addition to thP dining hall of dining hall fasts in soml' form campus. discussing issues with
rdntti'S. thP Coalition has collected LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWOOD
twith rPbat!•), an attempt at in-nwmb('rs of the University
approximatdy $6230 from the two stituting a payroll deduction community from 4:30p.m. to 5:30 
1Pa and rieP dinnPrs. mass of­
program in South BPnd p.m. in thl:' l'nin·rsitv Club. Call I 288-0033
fpratorii'S, and gifts from Campus 
business and industry and the Th(' question-and-answl:'r rf No Ans call 282-2366
:\linistr~·. 1\lardi t;ras C(JmmittPP formulat1·0 n and ·ntegratr·on of session is sponsored by a group of
1 1715 LINCOLN WAY EAST SO. BEND l'iasses pertianing to hunger, faculty and staff nwmbers who ___.,..-'"""'--~r:---------j
1$IOOO l'ach ), IniPrnational 
Studmts Club t$400l and manv 
ecology, etc. support !\Iiller's reelection. ______,;;.__..._--"'·,_____,-._ _....,__,;;___,__,_..,...=-""'*"'
indi\'HluaIs. ­. <>I this mom•y. $5ti45 has bePn 
llrinPgar was satisfil'd with tlit· .---------------------------~
allocatPd to rdit>f ageneiPs such as 
""'"" "flh;, '''"' ""d pmfes~·d I ST/L L HUN TJ NG F0 R AN I 
Daily Rosary scheduled IAPARTMENT FOR NEXT YEAR ?I 
Starting tomorrow. !\lay I and compassion 
I 1 
continuing daily all through May. Thl'<;bon:·;t~oiPsart'lak!•nfrom 1 CAMPUS VIEW ONE AND TWO 7
:~~,H:;~a~~·~;~~o~t:r('citPd at :oo ;~~:;~./~~;~('\~s"\~~"c;:~~~~·~o;~ 1 i~o 1 BEDROOM FURNISHED APARTMENTS II 
"That Grotto is the rock to which ll!•sburgh. C.S.C. ThP Grotto of I my lift· is anchor('d... But just which Doolry talks is our own 1 now ...and just so manv tim('s,how grotto hl'rt' at Notrt• Dam!', a 1 LOOK WHAT WE 
I long for t.ht• Grotto...if I could go l'l'nll'r of d1•vot ion to Mary. I to lhP <;rotto now then I think I :\II an• invit1•d to join in. praying I could sing insid(', !could b(' full of th1• Hosary and honoring that I faith and pm•try and Jovelin('SS and p1•rson to whom our llniversity is 1 HAVE TO 0 FFER •. I 
know mon• lwautv. lt>ndPrness and dPdieatl'd. Our Lady. 
Sendthe FTD 1 I ~ I Sweet Surprise I * 2 TENNIS couRTS I this Mother's Day... I * INDO.ORISWI.MMYNG PooL 1 

~~' I * C?c~~~;~~.~:ta~e~!~~!n~l~ach;nel I 
Usually available for less than 
I * DEAD-BOLT LOCKS I

$1500' 
I * EXCELLENT SECURITY I
•As an independent businessman. each 
I * BASKETBALL COURT * SHAG CARPETING I
FTD Member Florist sets his own prices. 
I * 2 BATHS IN THE 2 -BEDROOM * DISHWASHERS II ,.. :::~·D CONDITIONED ,.. PRIVACY I 
I * REGULAR SOCIAL ACTIVITIES * LAUNDRY FACILITIES I 
.•. a little extra credit I for being at the top of her class. 
I NOW RENTING FOR SUMMER AND FAll SEMESTER I TheSweetSurprise,'"abouquetofcolorful I ('75 _'76 SCHOOl YEAR) I
flowers. Or Sweet Surprisell, green plants w;th flocal acce"ts-Each ;" "" Imported. 
ceramickeepsake.vourFTDFiorist .~ I FOR RENTAL INFORMATION CALL 272-1441 1 
will send almost anywhere, and most • 1 
.___ ........ ....i:_7_:_·~-0-r.:.~_:_:_-a_......_·c :a:·............ _
:_c:._e_p_t_m _ _.. ..... ·..,.=,_..
_a~-·~-~-cr_ed ..I-~~P~SJfiEW APARTA!ENTSJ 

--------:-------~---...... 
8 the observer w~'!esday, April Jo, 1975 
Take $250,000 
Vietnamese officials abscond tNith embassy check 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -The blank check signed by embassy presenting it to a grand jury as Hieu, said he told the FBI of detente, into believing that all FBI said Tuesday it is seeking superiors, filled it out for quickly as possible.~· the incident April 22 after the competition has disappeared. two South Vietnamese embassy $250,000 and cashed it on April The embassy financial offi-bank notified the embassy its "Between these two extremes officials who disappeared after 18 at the Madison National cials with signature powers account was overdrawn, the we must navigate, seek to reduce allegedly stealing and cashing a Bank in Washington, taking the signed the blank check in Post reported. tensions on the basis of reciprocity quarter-million dollar check. money in $20 bills. advance because one of them The official Soviet news and seek to promote a stable 
The Washington Post said the The officials, according to the was to be out of town and the agency Tass reported from world. two unnamed officials took a FBI, worked in the embassy's other thought the check was to Washington that "officials of Kissinger's remarks were made procurement office which is in be made for about $140 to the Saigon regime, now in its in the context of a question that 
the same building as the bank. purchase newspaper subscrip-death agonies. are hurrying to involved blaming the Chinexe and An FBI spokesman said tions, the Post reported. ensure their own 'security' ... Soviets forbreaking the spirit of Tuesday, "We are investigating One of the officials with the 'diplomats' evidently decid-Paris Accords, encouraging a 
Fordham priest 
speaks or steel 
with the ultimate aim of signing authority, Nguyen Dinh Pd to embezzle the money Communist putsch in Portugal and · .. · before this is done hv someone asking why the United States 
.1-r · \\ •lha.m T. Hogan. S.J.,
dirt•ctor of fordham University's! • 1 Industrial Economics Research lnternatiOBU progrtlm se 
lnslituiP. will discuss "Steel In­dustry ProblPms in the latt> 1970's" at a ml'eting of the South Bt>nd 
Mrs. Florence Yeandel, 325 Dame, are assigned a host tamily('hapiPr of the National North Shore Drive, South Bend, if they indicate a preference toAssncialion of Purchasing 
has been named chairman of the participate in the program. They1\"lanagt•mt·nt on May 14. The Michiana International Hospitality are met by the host family on their 
dinn<·r m(•t-ling in the C.C.E. will Program sponsored by the Office arrival and are treated to several lw aliPndt>d by Iwo area mt>mbers. 
of International Student Services days of typical American familySouth Bmd mPmbers represent at the University of Notre Dame. life to ease their adjustment in a 1\1 ichiana an• a firms with 1974 Organized in 1969, the program foreign nation. sales of $4.26-billions and annual involves more than 150 Persons wishing to participate in
area 
purchast•s in ~'X<:ess of $1.34-billion. families in a program of the program are asked to contact Darwin H. PPIPrson of Miles hospitality for foreign students in Rev. Daniel O'Neil, CSC, director Laboratorit-s. Inc., Elkhart. is the area. of the Office of International pn·sidt>nt of !h(• group and AI Loh­Students at Notre Dame. Mrs. mann of Koontz-Wagner Electric International students, presently Yeandel succeeds Mrs. Richard Company. South BPnd. is directing representing more than 60 coun­Rt>mbold who has served since lht• annual dinner. tries at the University of Notre 1969. Hogan has been Pngaged in . . Pconomic studies of the iron and siPel industry as well as other • basic heavv industries for the past : 
' 

.
25 ~·ears. huring this time he has • publishPd a number of books. in-• eluding ''Productivity in the Blast : Furnace and Open -HPatrth : 
IIget you to
St•gmmts of the Steel Industry." ! lhP first detailPd study of its type. : His book. "Dt-preciation Policies : and HPsultant ProblPms," was : 
published in 1967. and "An • Economic History of I he History of : lh(• Iron and Steel Industrv in the 







Europe tliis year
llni!t:O States ·• in 1971. Hogan has IPstified on numerous occasions in Washmgton on the 
pt•prPciation phase of tax legislation. Ht• has served as a mPmbPr of the Task Force on 

oneway
Business Taxation and as a con­sultant to thE' Council of Economic Advisors to the President and U.S. DPpartm('l}t of Commerce. 

oranotlier.
Lit.~ winners 
11nnouncetl 
If you. thought higher air fares were in Europe. all you have to do is make your The winners of the English going to cheat you out of your summer in reservations and pay for your ticket at DPpartment Literary Contest were 
announced yesterday by Donald Europe. we've got gocx.l news. least 2 months before your scheduled Sniegowski, director of un­You don't have to have a lot of departure date. (You can make reservations 
dergraduate studies in the English 
money to get to Europe on Pan Am. even earlier and since seats are limited 
DPpartment. Gary Zebrun won the Samuel Not if you take advantage of our it·s a good idea.) Hazo Poetry Award with honorable Yout}:t Fares. 
If you have to cancel or change 
mPntion honors going to Robert • Miklifsch. Zebrun will receive $50 : And to take advantage of our Budget reservations before you start your trip in addition to theawaited 
Fares you need even less money. (after a trip has begun. no change in 
John Sears won the $50 Notre • DamP Fiction Award. Honorable : reservations is permitted). the most you can m(•ntion was awarded to Justo : ~uthFares 
lose is 10% or $50. whichever is higher.
Nun~z and Jam~s Swartz. : 
If you're between the ages of 12 and
The Mt>ehan Medal for Literary 1 : In limited circumstances, you'll get all your 1\lt•rit was awarded to James 1 : 21, and you want to roam around Europe 
money back. 
Braun. Braun will receive a medal : 
for a few days or a few months (but not
1
for his winning essay. Nunez : We have Budget Fares to cities all rPcPived honorable mention. : more than a year). pick your departure 
over Europe. Here are a few examples. 
I<:. Jane Robinett won the $100 ! 
date and give us your name. 
From Chicago round trip to:
~~~z~~my 1~a~:Fe~ric~:no~:b:! ~ Your seat may only be reserved 5 
. Rome. $591; Frankfurt, $527; Warsaw . 
mt•ntion WPrP Miklitsch, Zebrun : 
days or less before the departure date. 
and Nicholas Talarico. : $572. 
We have Youth Fares to cities all over
JudgPs for the contest were • These Budget Fares apply to flights 
faculty members from the 
. Europe. Here are a few examples. 
leaving between June 1 and August 31.
English. Philosophy, and Speech .
.
and Drama departments. .• From Chicago round trip to: After that. the fares are even lower . ..• Rome, $525: Frankfurt. $520; Warsaw, If you leave on a Friday or Saturday, 
No mollefl~. . $630. 
or return on a Saturday or Sund;1y, add $15 Fares are slightly lower in May.
no degree· ~ each way to the fare. 
These fares are valid for travel June, July, •
The Office of Students' Account! : For fares to other European cities . reminds all May graduates that : and August. or from other U.S. cities, contact your . 
University degrees cannot be : 
travel agent. 
awarded to those who ~ave unpaid ·: .
,.
accounts. : Budget Fares .• 
No degree or transeript of credit : .•
No matter what your age, if you're ..
will be issued to anyone whose : ~~~~ .. 
account is n()t settled by i: planning to spend between 22 and 45 days The Spirit of '7 5. · •
•..
graduation. AI graduates who are ': coocemed about the status of their ; .
.
acceunts sllould stop by tbe Ofriet : 
.•
of Stidents' Accounts Monday : through Friday frem 9 a.m. to : 
.. .. 
11:30 a.m. and from 1:30 p.m. to 4 ! ... . 
p.m. -""r .... ,._,.._ • ._...............--.: -• ., ~-----......................... 4,. ••••• -. (' .. ........... , ..... ~,&..:. ~ :... ,r·)i,o .... . •'-' : 
l ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.••••••••••~ ~ ••••••••••••.•••••• ~ ~· ••••• '~!' ••• -~ •••••~:;; .-:::;·.~-~-~..=.:=~-~ .;-.·.:•••~...::;:.••·~ .-. ~-~ •••~-•••:••~ ••••• 


Wednesday, April 30, 1975 the observer 


Ethnic talent highlights festival 
The International Student Organization of the ND-SMC community recently held their annual festival in Washington Hall. 
This event was the culmination of the International Week which included the One Earth Market­place held in the Rathskellar of LaFortune Student Center. 
Before the festival began a special plaque was presented to Father Dan O'Neil, C.S.C. the International Student Advisor, to acknowledge his 25 years of priesthood. Another presentation went to Julio Baez, a senior from Puerto Rico , who has suc­cessfully chaired the committee organizing the Festival for the past three years. 
The Festival then began with a lively note when Ron Taylor a professional dancer from In­dianapolis, performed the Lion 
Hunters Dance as part of the 
African act. 
From France came songs by members of the ND singers program and French students which included a fascinating example of how the French drink wine. 
Always a treat, Lithuanian dancers from the Chicago com­munity, representing the Baltic countries performed the first of their two act series,called the presentation was a colorful Baltic Sokiai. The fun and Chinese Folk Dance by the Chinese frivolity of dancing was brought Student Association. out with the added quick paced Finally the first half of the music of the accordian. Festival ended with an illustration 
Quite in contrast to the lively of Egyptian belly-dance by Rosy music was the slow rythmic Elias. melody of the Chinese Fiddle Duet. The secQJJd half began with folk 
The art of playing the Chinese songs from India played by Mrs. fiddle with its intricate notes was Vijaya Shah on a remarkable displayed splendidly by this instrument, the dambur. combination. To end the Chinese The conclusion of the colorful 
Lithuanian number was next with the Lt>etu\'ii Sohiai. Again the fast 
paced music and dancing was one of the liveliest acts of the nights.
Seniors to celebrate with final fling 
Six days of varied activities, highlighting food, drink, music and assorted antics, will comprise Senior Week '75. which is scheduled to begin Saturday. May 10 and run through Thursday, May 15. 
As a final celebration before graduation, the Notre Dame Class Officers have announced a package deal for all six of the events. This $12 ticket will provide "all the beer you can drink and admission to all the event!:," ac­cording to Class President Greg Ericksen. The package ticket will 
.resemble the football ticket procedure, with a hole punched in the pass at the entrance to each event. 
Those seniors purchasing the package ticket will also be entitled to all the free beer they can drink during Senior Week at the Senior Club, upon presentation of their "Senior Week pass." 
"For the average beer drinker, 

Ara to address seniors Thursday 
Ara Parseghian, this year's Senior Class Fellow, will address the Class of '75 Thursday, May 1, at 
8:00 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Parseghian will be introduced and receive his award from Nick Grosch, the senior who placed his name in nomination for the honor. 
Seniors are encouraged to be prompt for the event to allow the evening to begin promptly. 
Immediately following Par­seghian's address, the Senior Club will be opened and Parseghian will proceed there to initiate Ara Parseghian Night. He will then be available to meet and talk in­formally with seniors at the club. 
the approximate cost of this week's activities per event would be $22," stressed Class Treasurer Cflris Fenn. "For the exceptional beer drinker the cost could be as high as $40 without the package deal." 
Package tickets will be on sale next Wednesday through Friday, May 7-9, at four locations. The Senior Club will sell tickets during rl;'gular business hours on these days ·and tickets will also be available in LaFortune (main lobby> from 12:00 noon to 1:00 p.m. all three days. Dining hall sales <North and South> will be held during lunch from 12-1 and during dinner from 5-6. St. Mary's dining hall sall;'s will be at dinner from 5­6. 
Sl;'niors who purchase the $12 packag{' will also receive maps to. all locations and a detailed itinerary of {'Vents. locations, and times. 
The call;'ndar of {'Vents includes: 
Saturday, May 10-Senior Wake; Stepan Center from 9:00 to 1:00 p.m.; unlimited beer, food available,live entertainml;'nt. $2.00 this ewnt only. 
Sunday, May 11 -Dunes Day; privati;' bl;'ach party all day Sunday through until Monday; sleeping bags suggl;'stl;'d; unlimited beer. $2.00 this evl;'nt only. 
Monday, May 12-Senior kov•l; Beacon Bowl has been rented out from 7:00p.m. to 1:30 a.m.; price includes unlimited beer and all frl;'e games. $3.00 this event only. 
Tul;'sday. May 13 -Kegs ,\way Da~: St•nior Club from 2 p.m. until 
7:00 p.m.; outdoor events in­cluding canoe races, unlimited beer for package ticket holders, pay-by-thl;'-bl;'er for other seniors. 
Wt>dnesday, May 14 -The Last Hurrah: Senior picnic, possibly in th{' football stadium from 1 to 4 p.m.; unlimited bl;'er. hot dogs and other food available: live en­tertainment; games and contests. $2.00 this event only. 

SMC program discontinue 
The Parent's Delinquent Education Program will not continue next year due to lack of funds, stated its project director Dr. Eugene Campanale, chairman of the Education department at St. 
Mary's.  
South  Bend's Indiana  Criminal  
Justice  Agency  has  funded  the  
project  "in decreasing _amounts  

l;'ach year," Program Director Nancy Ziker said. 
One of the reasons it is ·difficult to procure program funds is because "it is hard to show tangible results," explained Ziker. 
Campanale said that the students themselves, in addition to the program organizers, have written many letters to various agencies, including HEW in Washington, as well as Sen. Bayh, Cong. Brademus, Juvenile Judge Kopinski, and the city council with unsuccessful results. 
This year PDEP received $30,000 from the Indiana Criminal Justice Agency. Ziker said it would cost fifty thousand dollars to keep the program going if St. Mary's did not provide free facilities. 
The program began three years ago when Sr. Maria Concepta McDermott, an associate from the Wm. Glasser Institute of Reality Therapy, received a grant from the Criminal Justice Agency to conduct an extensive experiment. 
The e~periinental high school program has upgraded classes with individualized instruction where "every kid works at his own pace," explained Aiker. Classes are held in St. Mary's Holy Cross Hall. 
"We stress cooperation," Ziker added. "Our kids are in this school mainly because they haven't been able to succeed in the regular school system," she added. 
PDEP is a "school without .failure based on the William 
GIasser  reality  therapy,"  she  
added.  
The  program  presently  has  

fifteen students from the twelve to fifteen year age bracket. A total of forty five students have been in the program during its three years. Assistant Director Luanne Dob­bins, six student teachers, and two student interns work in the program. in addition to Cam­panale and Ziker. 
"The students are very unhappy about the program ending, Campanale stated. "They're very much concerned. There's a lot of love and individual attention in the school that they don't get in a public school," he added. 
In looking for funds, Ziker stated that PDEP would "keep trying and follow up what we've started. The program director felt it tis unlikely that the program will exist next semester, because when funds are donated it takes a long time to actually get the money on account of the red tape involved. 

ATTENTION ALL SOPHOMORES 
Place your ring orders before you leave for the summer. Your ring will then be ready 
when you return in the fall. 
Hours: 9:00am· to 4:30 pm Mon.-Fri. in office.on second floor of HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
One of the newer additions to the 
festival came from the group of 
Islands in the South Pacific called 
Thursday. May 15 -Senior Death Polynisia. This act consisted of the 
!\larch: the first Class of '75 Knife-dance from Samoa. the 
reunion will begin at noon at the Hawaiin hula. a Maori dance and 
Senior Club and proceed to a with the help of some of the 
variety of specially selected audience the Tahitian Tamure. 
private watering holes: a hearse, Somehow it didn't seem natural to 
complete with refreshments, will amny to see dancing girls and 
lead the procession. $2.00 this palm trees in ND. 
{'Vent only. The numbers that were natural 
These events are open to all ND-to South Bend were the ones 
SMC seniors. and one guest per performed by the Irish Dance 
st>nior· will be admitted to each group which came from Detroit for 
Pvent at individual prices. Seniors the performance. 
may also pay for each event in-In conclusion was the Latin 
dividually. American song group which put 
Anyone with questions con-together a fabulous collections of 
eerning the Sl;'nior Wl;'ek activities songs. played with the ac­
can call Greg Ericksen l!t 3687 or companiment of bongos and the 
Chris Fenn at 1572. piano. 
aummlllllllUIUUIIUIIIHIIIUUIIIHIIIIIIUIIIIIlliiiiiiiHIH.IIUIIIIHIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
I ~ 
~ 
E= 
~ 
E 
:= 
§ § 
i ~ 
§
§ § 
I ~ 
~ 
SAlE! SALE! SALE! i 
GOING OUT OF SCHOOL i 30 SHIRTS (25~ each)(great condition)~ 
HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCES ii= ($1. 25 each) !! 
=
E 
(any price will do) §
I BUY NOW OR MAKE ME i AN OFFER (I'm real reasonable~ LOTS OF CLOTHES (sweaters, etc., 
· (any price) NOTHING WILL BE SAVED : HIGHEST BID GETS ALL. ~ 
PARK JEFFERSON APTS. No. 410 I CALL 287-0669 ASK FOR "CHAD" 
I 
.1,111Jift'l1'fi11'JIII'ftll11mlliiiiiiiiiiiiii'IUIIIIIIIIIIIHHIIIIIIIIII-.,. 
i i 
• 
: : • • • : • • :
•
• 
• 
• 
: 
•
• 
•
• • 
• 
• : •
: 
• 
STUDENT UNION'S ! 
SUMMER STORAGE ! 
()ate llall 
Wednesday, Morrissey 
Dillon Grace Flanner 
Thursday· Lyons Alumni May 8 Farley Breen·P Firday• Keenan Fisher
May 9 
Sorin Badin Mondf'IY · Stanford May 12 Pangborn Walsh 
How· ard
Tuesday 
Zahm 
•
Location of Vao 'lime •
•
•
Behind Morrissey • Morris Inn Aux. Parking Lot 9:00a.m.-: WNDU lot 4:30p.m.: WNDU lot • Behind Morrissey • Morris Inn Aux. Parking Lot 8:00a.m • WNDU lot 4:30p.m.: WNDU lot • 
Infirmary <west lot< • 
Behind Fisher 8:00 a m : 
•
Behind Bookstore 4:30p.m • 
Behind Bookstore • 
Infirmary <west lotl • 
Behind Fisher 8:00 a.m.! Behind Bookstore 4:30p.m. •. 
Behind Bookstore •
Behind Zahm • 
May 13 Cavanaugh Huuddle lot a·ooa.m · • St. Ed's Behind St. Ed'!; .4:30p.m.: Holy Cross Ad.iacent to Holy Cross •
•
•
THURS MAY 8 STUDENTS MOVING : 
., OFF-CAMPUS • 
:BEHIND THE BOOKSTORE 8:00 a.m. 4:30 Pnl 
• 
: ALL STUDENTS WILL RECEIVE• : CONTRACTS SOON•: ,REMEMBER: ALL STORED ITEMS MUST  :• :•:  
:  BE  LOADED ON THE PROPER DAY TO  :  
: AVOID PROBLEMS IN THE FALL! PICK-UP DAYS= SEPT. 3, 4, 5  AT THE  !:  
:  SAME LOCATtON WHERE THEY  :  
:  WERE PICKED UP.  :  
:  QUESTIONS: CALL CASEY AT 8952  :  





~ ~1t~J2Q~~rver 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Manager 
EDITORIAL BOARD AI Rutherford, Managing Editor. Fred Graver, Executive Editor; Jim Eder, Ed,itorial Editor K..n Gorouard. News Editor; Pat ;~anifin. Campus Edolor; Mary Janca, St. Marys£ dolor 



'; i 

Ko·n Bradford. Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; TomO'Neil. Features Editor lhris 51llolh. Photo Editor 
1 
Wednesday, April 30,1975 
New Year's Resolution 
The year is over . _ . Before the events --The process of coeducation has barely of the last several months become lost in begun. With the total female enrollment the rush of exams or the shuffle of expected at 1500 next fall, the University graduation plans, it would be valuable to now has no plan for future enrollment of put the year in some kind of perspective. women students. 
It has been a good year . Many good --Students have had a minimal impact things have happened to the students on policy decison here. Only on the largely because of their own efforts. basketball ticket controversy were Many bad things nave occured that students actually able to have their should spur some New Year's resolutions viewpoint effectively heard. The for next semester. calendar fight and the Harter Heights Some of the events of the year on ordinance are examples of the inef­
balance would look like this; fectiveness of student input. 
Good The balancing of good and bad could go 
--The Committee on \ Undergraduate' on. What is important is that students , Life has been a channel of student Ideas in reviewing the year, make resolutions to effect needed changes In all areas of for the next year. 
student life. Although the recom­The major resolution must be to prove mendations the Committee have made what students can do when they act must be approved by the Board of together. The COUL Report is a result of Trustees, the mechanism for effective seven students getting together to make a change has been established for a long realistic report on student life to time to come. the Board of Trustees. Darby's, the 
--The social life of this University has Nazz, and "the Quickie" are all examples 
improved through innovative, yet simple, of students working through student 
ideas like the Nazz, Darby's Place and organizations.. The Hunger Coaltion gets 
"the Quickie". its energy from a dedicated core of 
--The student body has shown great students working closely with faculty_ 
interest in something beyond the campus The high points of the year are those 
and the ND community. The meals of tea activities which were proven good by 
and rice and the projects of the Hunger students. When students were given the 
Coalition have brought a global confidence to perform, they responded 
awareness of human problems to this well. 
camous. What makes or breaks this school year 
Bad _ is the extent of student leadership. It has 
--The SLC has proven ineffective m been a good year, but also a good year for 
making legislative decisions. The New Year's resolutions. 
reductions in its membership serves only 
to complicate the problem. Terry Keeney 
22 picas · 


Why is the Observer? 
fred r:~raver 
The question which has been But, those exact journalistic about as much to do with jour­bothering me for some time now: standards can become too nalistic standards as warts have Why is the Observer the way it is?" rigorous, too demanding and to do with beauty marks. )I've been \Notice the lack of verb in that limiting and exacting. Reporting looking through back issues of the sentence, my own essential sense the facts is just that, getting them Obst>rvt>r for some time now, at­of inaction onthe matter.) right and putting them down .. The tempting to chart the evolution of person who does so is not this paper. I've noticed that in the I believe that a good newspaper necessarily telling the truth, but last three years, with the coming of 
directly reflects, mirrors if you they are not necessarily professionalism and journalisticwill, the place that it is reporting sidestepping the issue, either. standards, there has also been a 
on. If the place is a center of I've been told that the recent marked decline in personalities.cultural and creative activity, a "Absurder" had more truth in its Up until three years ago, the home for artistic growth and three pages than the Obst>rver puts names of the people working on the production, then the reporting of in a year's worth of pages. I've Obst>rvrr were well-known. Even that will carry a sense of creative said that myself, because I feel if they were regarded .by many as growth and production. that the truth is not found in getting mountebanks, iconoclasts and the facts down right, but in con­buffoons, at least there was a sense veying the feel, the meaning of of knowing and understanding
It the place is Notre Dame, then what is happening. between the readers and the people you are going to get the Observer. 
There.. have been many times putting out the paper.People knew This paper is an exceptionally that I have been writing an article who the columnists were, who theclarified mirror of Notre Dame, or an editorial and have wanted to members of the editorial boardperhaps too clear, to the point of abandon the limitations of jour­were, and they were able to takeblatancy. Obst>rvt'r "serving the nalism. Sometimes I knew that the this into account when they readNotre Dame-St. Mary's com­only way that I could tell the truth the •columns., editorials and ar­munity," will be the same Ob­was with some crazy allusion to a ticles that were printed.
st'rHr no matter who is putting it 
past event, even to a fable or fairy Now the corporate image hasout. tale. But I couldn't, and I often subsumed the personalities of think that I missed conveying those working on the newspaper,
This paper, in the last three the truth about an issue because of transformed their energies into years of its development, has the demands of my profession. nameless, faceless, efforts of assumed a corporate identity. At the same time that I realize journalism. That gets to be < "Corporate" in the sense that the limitations, the crippling ef­dangerous, for two reasons. the product obliterates the names fects of journalism's framework, I This paper changes hands and the faces of the people who put also profess that they are the best almost every year. I think that to it together.) The last year has seen means of getting across those assume a corporate identity is the Observer turn into a first-rate things that don't warr.pnt com­disastrous because of this rate of journalistic effort. It gets the facts ment or criticism or whatever .I'm changeover.right more often than not, reports interested in seeing the jour­What scares me the most, them in a clear and readable nalistic standards of the Observer though., is that in gaining this fashion, transmits the information evolve further. <Just as much as I llasso profondovoice of journalisticin a useful manner. In short it am interested in seeing someone, maturity, the Observer isgoing to 
fulfills most of the requirements perhaps myself, beginning a lose the high notes, those that for a newspaper. journal of public opinion. that has indicate even the slightest 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

Dpinian


Exam Man 
pat kearns 
Hight now, most of us are feeling that exaltation of spirits which 
coml's with the thought of taking final examinations. You know, 
the same sort of exaltation one feels when one sees those two 
revolving red lights in the rear-view mirror. 
While such a disposition seems natural enough to all of us, maybe 
it isn't all that natural . In fact there appear to be a few ex­
l'Pptions to the rule that, "Man Must Dread Finals and Act Ac­
l'ordingly". For lack of a better term, this exceptional 
phenomenon may be called the "exam". He is the one who studies 
dilig<•ntly all semester then quietly burns through his exam with 
the l'asy confidence of a Lou Brock with an eighty-five foot lead off 
first base. Of course. W<' mere humans usually suffer through the 
,,.PPk ft>Piing like the catcher with a popgun arm. 
So. it seems, finals might be a lot more enjoyable if we all had a 
little of the l'xam man's touch. Let us study him a little bit and see if 
\H' cannot learn some things from him. That is, of course, if we can 
find him in his library retreat where he is already reviewing for his 
first final <'Xam. 
Assunw WP do locate him I which is possible because he really 
does <·xis! l and we convince himof the valuable service he will be 
doing us by taking a few minutes to give us some insights into his 
systt-m No doubt we will hear him describe his well-planned 
scht>dule. orderly desk and-or carrel, and terrific powers of con­
n•ntration. Rut. without even mentioning it, the exam.man's real 
l'fficacv will become clear. 
Ill' h~s the attitude of a man who sees his studies as his current 
professional work. Therefore, the exam man has the motivation of 
soml'one with valuable work to be done, He realizes the value 
ofknowlt>dge, both for its humanizing effects and as the basis for 
one's professional competence after graduation. Knowing that a 
real grasp of the material before him will genuinely help him 
develop as a person and as a professional, the exam man throws 
himself into. his studies. Not because he has to, but because he 
wants to. There is no need for him to be continuallyurging himself 
onward by counting the days until summer. He honestly enjoys 
what he is doing. The present is spent in the pursuit of very worth 
while and rewarding goals. Why yearn for tomorrow, when so 
much can be done today? 
Well. obviously the exam man has some definite goals he is 
working towards, i.e. human and professional development, but 
aren't these goals a little selfish? Too often the answer is yes, but 
the Pxam man with a heart can see beyond his ownlittle world. He 
knows he has the obligation to use his talents and abilities for the 
good of others. However, unlike the shallow well-wisher, he 
rt>alizes one cannot give what one does not have. Consequently, the 
Christian exam man is further motivated by the awareness of his 
own shortcomings and the need to overcome them. 
No doubt we all find ourselves falling short ofthefew exam men 
here at Notre Dame. Yet, wouldn't it be great to launch into finals 
with at least a spark of such noble aspirations. It surely beats 
counting on the dining halls to provide the only pleasant moments 
for the next week! 
wavering or lack of confidence. the truth. They don't try to tell the That's dangerous because we truth in journalism, and they don't aren't professionals, and we are try to tell the truth here. fools if we pretend to be. What is ironic is that the per­
As Kurt Vonnegut relates in centage of people seriously
"Mother Night," the workers of planning to go into a journalisticChicago's stock yards boast that career here is less than half. they can use every part of the pig So it's not their career that is on but the squeal. But it's the squeal the line here. And I don't think that 
that is the speaking part, that is any of them lack the personaltelling the pig's part of the story, integrity or the ability, put forth and the Observer is beginning to do such an effort. 
away with the personal point of I think that it all comes down to 
view. 
the limitations of the journalisticI wouldn't have to involve very profession, as they begin to come many of my fingers to count the forth both in the Obst>rver and in 
numbers of people of the Obst>rver its people.staff at present who have the And the truth, then, is to be f0unC.: 
willingness and determination to somewhere else. The best we can put their names to an extremely do is to get it right. It's up to you to 
individual effort, and say that is figure it out. 

Wednesday, April 30,1975 
the observer 11 
1however. as it is quite secure in its difference between life and death dividual differences and opinions, puppetry of both student govern­for a patient, perhaps one has an if we firm our own values and ment and SLC. t•thkal duty to at least test out the hopes and commitments for fhe 
The "Opinion" can be respected claims that TM can help one be a future, then it's a worthwhile as advice from an intelligent and better learner and therefore a venture for all of us.
P. 0. Box Q 
experienced man, but its better, more responsible and ef­It has been a great joy to me to 
I 
usefulness ends there. The early­ficient physician. have worked with and come to know so many people in three short
liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.:.lto-bed v i c toria n ism w h i c h he 
t 
supports is an inconsequential Walt Mills years. I know our paths will cross 
1
(examples are far too numerous to thing, actually; its principle effect again in the future. Thanks for enumeratel and I agree that there on modern life has been the your friendship and support.

Using The I
is no academic justification for population explosion of the 1960's. No More 
I
remaining in the program here. I 
1
differ from Mssrs. Flaherty and i\likt> Shaffer Father nave Schlaver, I".S.I". Makielski in that, not only did I Notre Dollars llirt>ctor of Student Activities wish to remain in Japan to travel,
Alumni' but I did realize my obligation to l>t>ar Editor: 

'Subway 
Dt>ar Editor: N.D. to stay. TMAnd Freshman Within the past Wf.'ek, students Our parents and we did sign It seems the recent transition in have received in their mail a form statements obligating us to remain the Office of Ticket Management 
Law
to befilled with names and ad­in the program its entire duration. The Pre-Med has failed to bring an end .to inane dresses of people they think would As such. an obligation does exist. and repressive policies concerning welcome a rhance to become However, as I wrote in a letter lll'ar Editor: student tickets for athletic events. 

Seminars 
members of the "Notre Dame signed by all nine of us here, a copy Last ·year, a successful student Subway Alumni Association." of which was sent to Fr. Broestl, Everyone has seen the posters protest managed to keep in­Dl'al· Editor: This association's aim is "to give Dean Crosson, and The Observer. around campus explaining that flationary pricing of basketball formal recognition to the my anger stems from the fact that Transcendental Mt>ditation is a tickets to a minimum. This year, This serroester I was fortunate thousands of NO fans who have I feel that Notre Dame similarly simple natural technique that is once again. an inordinate price t'nough to get a law seminar for my 
never seen the campus but still has obligations to us to see that we practiced twice a day. It lends to increase has been abruptly Freshman Seminar requirement. love the school and its spirit." are receiving what we ought, but more effective and harmonious presented to the would-be but it appears as if freshmen in th e 
After paying a membership fee without some sort of contractual activity. I believe that TM may basketball fan. years to follow will not have the (of coursel. these lucky people will obligation from N.D., as it has help the pre-med get into medical The $28 demanded for a lower opportunity to be this fortunate. receive "an official car decal, a from us. we are without anything school and become a more com­arena seat reflects a 27 per cent This injustice to future freshmPn 'Subway Alumnus' certificate and on which to base our arguments. petent physician. price hike and is an arrogant blow at Notre Dame and to Notre Dame a subscription to a quarterly Often the l'n•-l\!Pd gets the to all students of modest means. law students can be credited to the 
newsletter. Preference for football When Notre Dame told us and feeling that the amount of material \When ·will the powers on high man in charge of graduate studies. tickets at away games is also a what Sophia gave us were two to be mastered and the amount of realize that not all of us have possibility." Whsen1•r 4-10-75) different things, but we were time alloted for learning it makes Mommies and Daddies who can I<:ach semester, six Notre Dame 
To put it bluntly, this impressed without recourse in our the task insurmountable. afford to pick up the tab? l law students teach law seminars, me as but another one of the argumt>nts. If Notre Dame is going Moreover, with tht• exponential This year tickets are being for which they are paid the same University's "let's use some more to bind us contractually, than we, growth in medical knowledge in distributed much l'arliPrthan usual as other graduate students are people" games. too. should have some sort of recent years, the task of learning in what only can be interpreted as paid for teaching a course: tuition 
I am firmly against duping contract to similarly bind both to be a truly competent physician an audacious attempt to "use" and a stipend. However the 
J people into financially supporting Notre DamP and Sophia. Even if I seems to be becoming even more Super Soph Adrian Dantley's in­director of graduate st udiPs said and taking "official" pride in a feel that we did not rt'l't'iVt' what impossible. As pre-med students decision to turn pro as a means of ht> was not going to pay any university which they know WI' should have, according to our the demand placed on us is to find maximizing ticket sales. It is stipends to law students teaching nothing about. The regular Notre written materials from Notre some way to increase our ability unfortunate in this great athlete's seminars this year. In an unusual Dame Alumni Association is valid Dame. I do feel obligated to to deal with the rising level of hour of deli hera tion that the display of equity. though, Father because the men and women remain in the program. I will mPdical knowledge. University has chosen to set this Burtchaell stepped in and said the graduates Who become members fulfill my obligation even though I If we experience any futility in sad t>xample of "getting all you stipends had to be paid. Now the do so with their eyes wide open. feel Notre Dame has not fulfilled trying to make it through tht> pre­can get." graduate studies director has said They have personnally witnessed its obligation to at least inform us med grind. what will medical A.D., I refuse to play the Ticket that nt•xt year he will pay neither much more than a few football of t•xactly what we will get. school and post-medical school Dictators' game plan. I wish you tuition nor stipends to law students games each year. They have at­Bdng told that we will receive years be like? While we may leave the best and want you to know that teaching seminars. So far, Father tended dasst>s. met teachers, two electives first semester and the pressures of pre-med behind I will continue to follow next fall Burtchaell has not intervened. made friends and become a part of two electives second semester, and upon graduation, the pressures wherever you may be (N.B.A., thl' university. then being allowed one first and responsibilites of• being a A.B.A.,orN.D. + NotreDollarsl... A dislike for law stuaents does But. in addition to this, they have semPster and none second knowledgeable doctor will cer­only this time I'll be watching you not justify the termination of the realized that Notre Dame's "of­semester, angers me. I had more tainly be no less. Ask any doctor on the tube. most popular type of Freshman ficial" image is largely a freedom in high school and without about the pressures of trying Seminar._ Unless something hypocrisy·. They have been treated a doubt my high school was far tokeep up with the cons! ant tgrowt h is done, beginning next semester, like childrt>n. they have seen bettt•r academically than Sophia, of medical knowledge: endless Tnm .\ansltH>s six law students and countless frit>nds punished and suspended although I realize it is hard for journals, updates in procedures, freshmt•n will be victims of without mercy, they havl' seen N.D. to guarantee quality from diagnosis, drugs, etc. another Notre Dame screw. coeducation handled miserably, year to year. l But Sophia is far. far Now, you ask. what relevence and they have seen the faculty below Notre Dame quality>. can TM -have to this dilemma? If Thanks :\anw \\ ithlwid upon requt>st ignored as inferiors by the ad­I personally feel academically the potential physician is faced ministration... all in the name of chl'a!Pd this year. although with the problem of having more Amt>rica's "Thristian com­culturally . without a doubt, I have material to learn than he has the lh•a•· Editm·: munity." So. if the students who gained much. Culturally speaking. capacity to master he seems to As. m~· stay in this community And Lest graduate from Notre Dame wish to lht>re is definitely rl'ason for have two options. Either he can draws to a close for the time being, become mPmbers of the alumni , offering a year abroad program in lt>arn less and be satisfied with allow me to writenl\ first letter to 

You Forget ... 
association. they know fully well .Japan. But Notre Dame should incompet!'nce or he can in­the Obst·•·nr. I want to thank the that typP of institution they are guarantee contractually what it ereasehis capacity to learn. many people who have given such supporting publicly and finan­ll'lls the student going abroad he­Psychologists say that we use great cooperation and enthusiasm I It•a r Editor: riallv. sht> will receive. not only in this only 5-10 per cent of our hrain"s to the outside-the-classroom ac­As WI' conw to the end of the 
ot)viously. this cannot be said program. but in the others as well. potential. H!•search indicates that tivities of this campus. acadl'mic year. I want to take a about the Subway Alumni. The Because it was known that I . too the practice of TM enables in­momt>nt to commmd ~u for the majority of them will be sup­was angry about the academic dividuals to use more of their I'm convinet•d we can't create a job you han• done in prPparing and porting a football team -nothing nonsense here and had had con­mental potential. Objective ''Christian Community" on paper distributing the rol11·gt· more; and maybe if the title ot the flicts with the director of the studit>s have said that meditators' or in theory. WI' can only build on community nt>wspapt>r. Association could be changed to program here. it was assumed that IQ go up. !\lore specifically. one lht> individual human potential Although the proulrt•<Hlmg and illustrate this idea more clearly, I would automatically wish my study showed that "meditators around us and try to link it together typPsetting art> not always so good 
the formation of such a group nam!' to be signed to that last perform better on recall tests and in friendship. sharing. and give­as W!' would l:kP . the paper shows would be valid. The letter. However. without having learn more quickly than non­and-take, with a healthy regard for a dt•cidt>d general 1111pru\ t•mt·nt futuremembers are not and n•ad the letter. I would like to meditators. Meditators also tradition and a hope for a future in this yt'ar. Coveragt> is good l there will not be informed as fo the retract my name from it. show!'d significantly better results which WI' will continue to be could be more material from the rest of what "Notre Dame" stands on more difficult material." bonded together wherever we are. Saint l\lary's side) and your using for. One glance at 1\otre Dame If it is true that one can increase matt•rial from all constituencies
Kristin Thorson
l\lagazint> shows that not even our learning ability then it appPars If this comt•s about at Notre !students. faculty. administrators. true alumni get a realistic picture that Tl\1 could aid the pre-med in Dam!'-and I'm convincPd it does­alumni 1 is t•xtra-good. Pn­of what goes on at this campus. solving his problem. Moreover. if then Christ is in our midst whether eouraging a wider readership Therefore. I believe this one is contemplating a career in recognize him or
Misguided WI' not. If our 
Sislt•r :\lal"ia .\ssunta \\ 1'1"111'1".
association to be a needless vic­mPdicine where one's memory and world expands whilt• wt> are here, 
("S("
timization of innocent, ignorant, learning capacity could be the if wt• develop a tolerance for in-

Arguments 
llt·parlml·nt tot" H1•ligiuu~ Studit''
goodht•art t>dpeople; and I refuse to 
take part in it. 
I)t•ar Editor. 
. lt'anim• l\1. Sterling 'i6 
In the midst of the parietals debate. it is important that the rt>cent "Opinion" of Dr. Julian Pleasants be contested as a par­ticularly misguided argument Dt•ar Editor, against a parietals extension. In his support of the current bedtime, 
Having just found out that my Dr. Pleasants misses the entire signature was used without my point of student input : a man who knowledge in aletter referred to by works mtes. and is drafted is Tlw Obsern•r in an article ap­certainly of the age where ht> can pearing April 25, and not knowing make a choice of hours which best exactly what was written, I feel I fit his academic and social should articulate my feelings on schedule. being "trapped" in Japan. Dr. Pleasants· argument bears 
a distinct taint of unwillingness to 
While I know of the rough copy of confront the more relevant the letter and approved of such a sexuality aspect; mtPnl ionalor not. letter being written. I felt its tone it illustrates the absence of a to be somewhat indiscn•et . tenable position regarding although I support its basic sen-sexuality and the restriction of 
timents. We have been hours. The administration ap­
academically insulted here parently feels no concern with this, 
Obi igations 

J 
12 the observer Wednesday, April JO, 1975 

outrider~~~~~~ 
WarrenCommission r:~arry wills 
It is time to say a word for the Warren Commission. Even those who believe that Oswald was the sole assassin of President Ken­nedy are beginning to grant that the Warren Commission did a bad job. Tht•y say we should "reopen the case," if for no other reason, just to resolve doubts caused by sloppy detective work. But most doubts are caused by two classes of men--those who have not n•ally n·ad what tht> Warren Commission .said; and those whose doubts would not bt> n·solved by the Second Coming <which they would tn•at as a CIA ploU. 
Tht> attacks on the Warren Commission come from three main din•ctions: 
1l Somt• think the commission was part of the plot itself. These pt>oplt> an• at least consistent. If one could mobilize all the n•sourct>s most conspiratorial theories demand, then controlling lht> commission should have been no problem at all. But this, like most such theorit>s, proves too much. If one can "control" a chief justict>. a futun• president, a bunch of prominent lawyers on the makt•. an attorney general who happens to be the assassinated man's brotht>r, thE'n one controls everything, and there is no longer any m•t>d to hide--i.E'., to be a conspiracy. 
Tht• litt•ratun• of thE' John Birch Society offers the only parallel. Tlwy think tht> BilderbE>rgers are bE>hind every major event in history. But if so, who are they still underground'? They could run gowrnmPnts with much less timE' and E>fforl by taking over openly lht> things thPy control. As it is <according to the theory>, they have to control thrt't' things SE'cretly to control one thing indirectly. It is a t remt>ndous waste of energy. They should cut out all the thousands of littlE' men. 
2l Otht>rs think the CIA and-or the f'BI bamboozled the com­m ission--whirh is a rather touching exercise in credulity. Even if thost> agE>ncies were t>fficient, lhE'y would have to tread carefully wht>rt' so many other factions and rival interests were at play--and wht>rt> tht> rt>sults were going to be published in 26 volumes. But, of courst>, tht> rt>cord of both the FBI and the CIA is enough to make any criticism of thE' commission look like praise. If the conspiracy dt>pendt>d on tht> FBI and the CIA, then Howard Hunt's whole carPer tt>lls us what would have happened to it. 
I. :11 OthE>rs, by far the most numerous, think the commission just fumbled thE' job out of haste. imcompetence, or unconscious prE>judicE>s. Most of the E'Vidence for this is the citing of "leads" that thE' commission did not track down. In fact, many of these wt>rE' tracked down. or WE're patently false leads from the start. The commission supplied its critics-with all their ammunition. With admirablE' self-confidence and courage, it published the entire testimony taken in the investigation--those formidable 26 volumes that conspiratorialists try to mE'morize. The commission did not publish conclusions on most of the testimony, though a fair reading usually E>xplains what judgmE>nts the commission made of the evidencE'. A fair rt>ading is not what thE' volumE's normally get. As police officials know. invE>stigation of a famous crimE' of its decade, and it attractt>d the dippiest t}ossible assortmE>nt of characters. The conspira torialists oftE'n take this wild unrt>liable testimony, quote it st'lt>ctively. and thE'n ask why the Warren Commission did not follow it up--often without knowing that the commission did follow it up a stt>p or two. which is where most of it broke down. A fair t-xample is Mark Lane's use of testimony by Nancy Perrin Hich. Ht• devoted a whole chapter of this book to this woman's bizarre tale. Ht• nt>glectE'd to tell the readers that the same woman appeared two other timE', in two different places, to volunteer l'\'idence to thE' commission. The investigators listened politely, though she told three totally different stories. At one of these ap­pParances, delibE>rately omitted from Lane's chapter, she took 1 and flunked l a polygraph test. ( h·id Demaris and L back in the sixties, took Lane's advice and followPd up this woman's testimony. We found that she was an unstablt> woman. had been in and out of psychiatric care and police stations. that shE' lovE>d to "testify" about all her famous friends in mob trials and other ceiE>brated crimE's. We also found that Lane knl'w all this. that he told the woman's husband he would not be able to make anything of her testimony. But he made an entire tt•ndt•ntious chaplE'r out of one-third of that testimony. 
IIPn· is a simplE' rule of thumb for dealing with con­spiratorialists: If they question the integrity of the Warren Com­mission yet quote Mark Lane with approval, they are intellectually \Pry ill-equippPd or intellectually dishonest. 

************************************ 
This issue is dedicated to 
Tom Drap~, 

editor-in-chief 1974-75 
************************************ 
the observer 
Night Editor: Val Zurblis Assistant Night Editor: Katie Kerwin Layout Staff: AI Rutherford, Jim Stevens, Bob Brink, Maureen Flynn, Maggie Waltman, Chip Spina, Janet Carney, Terry Keeney, Boone Sanchez, Martha Fanning 
Day Editor: Don Reimer Copy Reader: Gregg "J.B." Bangs, Bob Mader, Ken Bradford Editorials: Jim Eder. John Amantea Features: Tom O'Neil, Maureen O'Neil Sajbel Sports: Bill "Socks" Brink Typists: Miirtha Fanning, Don "Fingers" Roos, Maryann Carr, Janet Carney, and a supporting cast of thousands Compugraphic: Phil Orschein Night Controller: AI Rutherford, Tom O'Neil late Typist: Stamina Roos, Tom O'Neil Picture Screener: Albert Ad Layout: Bob Tracey, Don Roos, Maureen Tracey Sajbel 
The Notre Dame spirit 
In four years of college I have written an infinite number of articles, press releases, cutlines, headlines and even features. But I have only written one editorial column before this. So you must realize that I take this very seriously. The only other topic I 
have  ever  graced  this  page  with  was  
Hoosier  Basketball.  Now  you  know  how  
serious I am.  

It is of course impossible to condense four years of life at any college, let alone this trauma heaven, into three pages of copy. I will therefore be carefully selective. This column is written for the general public, but not necessarily about every member of this community, or even every senior. 
There is one question that seems to loom menacingly in front of every freshman and every graduate in Domedom. "Why did you come to Notre Dame?" I guess that query is appropriate to those people going through a transition period. I truly b~lieve that almost everyone at Notre Dame has given this question a lot of thought. You can't cop out by saying the place _!las a good academic record. so do dozens of other places. And Domeland sure isn't a financial bargain either. Social life is all what you make it, so that can't enter the picture until you have already ~ettled in with the cockroaches and the roommates. Sports is a definite drawing card for some, but to let out a classified secret NO doesn't have a monopoly on national championships and miracle vic­tories. 
That leaves us with that corny, over­worked, and tritest of trite phrases--the Notre Dame spirit. Also known as tradition, community, pride and enthusiasm, this simple explanation generates a frenzy of cheering, smiling, !-shirts, and best of all, contribution (which supposedly help pay for more spirit seeds to keep the crop in­creasing). 
As a freshman you might be able to say "Notre Dame spirit" with a straight face, but after four years, anyone who can manage that has either freaked out once too often, or has really missed the complete college experience. But reciting those words has nothing to dow tih thinking about them. 
There were some incredibly hellish times around here when you fantasized telling your favorite University administrator what he could do with his spirit, but there were also the times you thought you were living in a real working community that was in this thing all together. Notre Dame spirit may mean a section of friends and drinking buddies, it may mean a small circle of women trying to find their identity, or it may mean a group of club members en­joying the same weekend activities. A few precious times it might mean most of this incredible place banded together to beat USC, or to lower the price of basketball tickets. It might take the form of over 1.000 students sweating through a mock con­vention that really means something to them, or of twice tthat number of people acting like lunatics during a weekend of An Tosta I festivities. 
Whatever it means to each of us as in­dividuals,. the Notre Dame spirit is a fact. This University has an incredible number of students involved in at least one ex­tracurricular activity sponsored by the institution in some way. As somebody famous recently said, we even started the Quickie. 
Granted, by the time they are graduates, some Domers have decided that it all wasn't worth the effort, and some may wish they could do it all over again, somewhere else. To these people I can only express my sorrow and hope their futures are more fulfilling. But for what I consider the vast majority of the Class of '75 or those that will soon follow them in caps and gowns, I feel confident that they will do a lot of thinking about that corny spirit idea, and decide that there really is something to it. 
I choose to think that my proof of this, illusory though it is, is more than just superficial thoughts of someone who does think she made the right choice in not transferring away from the Dome a while back. I also have a secondary reason for pondering the meaning of Notre Dame spirit. H~ name is Cary and he has wanted lor along time to attend this particular University. Like someone else I once knew, 
by M~ 
he grew up weari spending Satur Fighting Irish. 1­time defending tl enemies. And Iii spent years gettl tieing jump shot1 addition to Dome person, take my spends his four · many miles awal someday realizes a thing. He is a Dame spirit and what goes on her, to be a registered make a differenct group is living e' 
Living up to n even explain all can't ever rem1 couldn't express wanted to. Which 
Thanks Mom a wouldn't even kn1 
Loa 

The everyday crazy thing 
How do you cram four years of living into 
one column without getting wordy, mushy 
or relevant? It is probably fitting that the 
last thing I write for this paper will be the 
most difficult to do. 
I've been racking my brain trying to think of the significant highlights of the last four years. I've had some of the best times of my life because of people here and I've had a few of the most awful experiences here. In looking back the things standing out the most are not the big campus events like the un-merger debacle (which I would rather forget) or the election of Kersten as king instead· of SBP, or the various An Tostals, Mardi Gras, Armory Parties, etc. Instead I find myself thinking of the everyday crazy things that happened. 
I still have a vivid memory of my arrival at St. Mary's. My first reaction upon en­tering room 394 LeMans was despair. I had never seen a room like It; the room conjured up pictures of a hospital ward or an or­phanage, but not a place to call home. This particular room had been a classroom converted into a quint that had been reconverted into a triple. On the left wall was a covered-over blackboard, complete with chalk ledger. Along the wall were three wrought-iron infirmary beds with bars at the head and footboard. The windows gave a scenic view of the parking lot. The right side of the room was dominated by two mon­strous box-like structures that had two colliding, sliding doors, presumably closets. 
I wasn't there long before Melissa arrived with the largest number of relatives and the largest trunk I ever saw. Naturally it was pouring out while we tried to transport all our belongings to the room. Both of our fathers kept saying, "I think we have all of It now. What did you put in this footlocker anyway -bricks?" 
The circumstances under which I met my second roommate were somewhat em­barrassing; Melissa and I had decided that she wasn't arriving until the next day. As I started to creep down the hall toward the shower, Kathy, her father, mother, and sister burst into the room, and there I was in my shower cap and bathrobe. It was to be the only time in four years that Kathy's parents would address me by my name. 
I'm not sure of the exact date or who started it, but somewhere around the third day of school they all started calling me Cootie. Their parents call me Cootie; some of them even call my parents Mr. And Mrs. Cootie. 
Colleen delights In explaining to people why they call me Cootie. "You see it's because she's so tiny and cute like a little bug." Personally I never found bugs very cute, and these are the same cowards who scream bloody murder if any type of bug is sighted in their presence. 
Sophomore year was historic in that I started working at the SMC library and as staff reporter for the Observer. My prize stories that year were "Mr. Dirt" being nominated for Senior Class Fellow and the frog jumping contest being held by the mfr,istry of propaganda, a of student gov~rnment. My friends and I also spent almost every Sunday night In Kubiak's that year. 
Junior year we lived in luxury, a two­room triple, complete with a full bath. There was never a dull moment in that room, from the morning when "Brownie" came in to "borrow" my toothpast and Col's cigarettes, to the evening when she ap­peared to borrow Pat's coats and my fran. 
One night Brown's borrowing led to catastrophe. Since she had my iron, 1 took Pat's to do my once-a-semester ironing. After going through three shirts, the fourth 
by Pat1 
one Imy favorite) < iraQ. Soon afterw; knocked my Soverei! the window, on to a below. later we h men discussing the ditioner that was hi 
Pat and Colleen Y two hours after I bee "Don't those Obse~ Didn't they just cal think I'm going tote that you eloped and they lamented. "If it someone from the formation office, or t around with. Maybe swering service, Co 
Whoever said se year was jock must who came up with S\J to have loved and lc loved at all; Better heals all wounds, etc on fourth floor LeM tale of woe: "I've t never graduate, 1'111 lock myself up and ! want to ..." We whether we're gain~ our work, but in the go out. My motto is you can safely put c 
What will 1think a things like a friend 1 w~s sick, someone birthday party for rr the pouring rain fro SMC library one last bringing me ace bar walk, someone flyl driving in from 1\ bombing out on the l out, but still having i the company. 



Wednesday, April 30,1975 the observer 13 
Jrlene Zloza 
1g Notre Dame t-shirts and clays cheering for the e has also put in a lot of 1is insane place to outside e others I know, he has 1g straight A's and prac­so as to be a worthwhile and. This Is a very special vord for it. And even if he ·ears of higher education from the Dome, I hope he that he didn't really miss lready part of the Notre 
he has already affected ever after. You don't have student at Notre Dame to ·. The new subway alumni idence of that. 
y reputation, maybe 1.11 Jf this to Cary myself. I -mber anyone saying I 
myself when I really ·eminds me ... 
1d Dad. Without you, I 
w what spirit is. 
·king BOck 
• 
s 
~;e Cooney 
ttached itself to Pat's rd Pat, accidentally !n Liquor Store mug out 1 office air conditioner ~ard the maintenance repair of an air con­
by a flying mug. ere ready to evict me ~me St. Mary's Editor. er people ever sleep? I five minutes ago? I II them you're dead, or 
went to Hong Kong," isn't the Observer, it's ibrary, the public in­lose weirdoes you hang you should get an an­ltie." :ond semester senior be the same imbecile :h gems as: It's better st than never to have late than never; Time 
In every seniors' room 
~ns there is the same 
ot so much to do, I'll 
1ever finish. I've got to 
et to work, but I don't 
always debate as to 
out or not, listing all 
end we almost always 
Don't do today what 
tf until timorrow. 
most often? Probably 
naking me tea when I 
throwing ·a surprise 
e, someone walking in· 
n Stanford hall to the 
time to visit, someone 
dages when I couldn't 
ng in from Arizona, 
ew Jersey, and me 
ki slopes the first time 
1 good time because of 
How to 



thank them? 
by AI Sondej 
I was asked by the Observer staff to write an editorial on my reflections of this past year at Notre Dame ... Thirty hours have gone by and I haven't written a word. It's not because I don't know how to put it into words. I rarely get into a situation where I feel a little helpless, but when I do, I do something that perhaps I should do more often, and that's talk to God. 
Dear God, how do I thank all the people here for accepting me for what I am. I stand outside the dining hails of Notre Dame pestering the students everyday for money and instead of rejecting me, they allow me to collect and how do I thank them for their contributions that will enable others whom they will never see to eat. drink, learn, and work so that they can lead menaingful lives? 
How do I thank the people of security, accounting, cashiers, and vending depart­ments for 'storing and sending this mone·y to the agencies? How do I thank all my fellow workers for putting up and subbing for me when I had to leave work early? How do I thank the World Hunger Coalition, Campus Ministry, faculty, staff. and administration for their intellectual support? 
How do I thank the people of the Observer for letting me use their room as an office and write those textbook editorials? And how do I thank my mom, dad, brother (All. sis. relatives, and friends for being there whenever I need them? 
I guess wtiat I'm really asking of You, Lord, is to love them all, they've beer more than too good to me 
Watching the changes 
Perusing 
through the senior section of the Dome yesterday, I was overwhelmed at the amount of change which took place in people just over the span of one short (too short) year. Even though the portraits were, on the whole, extremely poor resemblances of many seniors, the change which took place 
was quite apparent. 
In some people, the change was funny and amusing; in others it was sad. Receding hairlines last year (when the pictures were taken) to near baldness now; half a dozen gray hairs last year but Grecian Formula 44 this year; dark brown to blonde or vice versa in a year's time; hair down to the waist then, now over the ears (both sexes included); fu man chus once upon a time, Rip Van Winkle beards late!y; Roman nose one year. pug nose the next ... 
Physical differences are always noticed and always predictable. How many seniors will look even close to what they look like now at reunion time in 1980? Not many. 
Change. But there is more to change than just wh'lt meets the eye in a yearbook portrait. . . A very visible change takes place within a person's personality, within his spirit, within his psyche. Over the four­year peiod a person spends in college, he is expected to experience a change of at­titude; he is supposed to become more mature, accept responsibility and all the other characteristics that go along with becoming mature adults, to use the proverbial explanation. 
Even though this topic of growth and maturity and change has been overused, I am still interested in the effects of this change and the realization of its actuality. 
I can laugh now as I look back upon my four years of higher education. To evaluate the "way I was" as a freshman in al all-girls school in White Plains, N.Y., versus my behavior and attitudes throughout the three years I spent at Notre Dame amuses me now. 
And to think that I, at one time in my career, executed the same shenanigans that freshmen are still doing today, and will probably do for years to come. Of course, when we are freshmen, we believe that our behavior is like everyone else's on campus; there is no difference between a freshman and a senior. How untrue that assumption is is apparent to me now. The change in at­titude, aire, will determination ... is like night and day. Unfortunately, it takes four years to realize this impending difference. 
Change. How often do students change their majors during four years time? How often do they change their majors with only one year left to go? How often are they forced to change majors against their own will or by constant threat of expulsion? Just what does this change mean? 
Freshmen enter these hallowed hails with an intent to major in premed. After taking Emil T, and Thorsen their first years and missing a passing grade on each test by only one point, they are asked to leave the preprofessional program in search for another major, even though they sti II want to become doctors. So they transfer into business, but after realizing that they will have to take 22 credits each semester before they graduate to make up credits, they decide they want to transfer into the College of Arts and Letters. After all these moves and changes, where do they go from here? Imagine the amount of goal-tending they must do befoore they graduate. 
Indeed, the manifestations are obvious in my present attitude and personality. I have shed most of my hang-ups and quirks within the past four years (only to return home to pick up new ones). And like others, I have acquired new fetishes. It is only natural. 
I suppose what I really want to say here, is that I have witnessed the process of change taking place on many different levels of being at N 0: personal. individual, academic, physical. You name it; it changes. But one of the most significant changes that I have witnessed, and I am sure that others share my thoughts, con­cerns the change in tone of NO, the change in spirit of the students, the change in at­titude of the administration, the change in academics. Some of these are legitimate. others are not. 
The class of '75 is one of the last to ex­perience and reap the effects or the struggles and efforts of the more militant and liberal students of the late sixties and early seventies. When we go, who will un­derstand and know what having no parietals was like? Who will know what a real hail party was like with wapatulaand kegs in the hallways? Who will remember what the Senior Death March was? 
All these events and others represented a good lime for students (good in the sense of being happy). Now they have become ex­tinct. The philosophies underlying their eradication have changed the tone of student life, and the students in years to come will never know that it was possible to have keg parties, that it was possible to have girls in rooms after midnight. that there really and truly was a drink called wapatula. 
How much more permanent is this change is student life compared to the physical 
by Jeanne Murphy 
changes manifested in yearbook portraits? 
How definite is the change in s tudent life compared to the short-lived plans of flunky pre-med majors? How long-lasting is this new attitude in student life compared to the changing attitudes of a freshman and a senior? 
As a senior I am in the position to evaluate and question the changes which I have witnessed the past four years. I can look back and see which ones were good, and which ones were not so good. 
To laugh at the inevitable physical changes in yearbook portraits. To cry over unattainable ideals and goals. To hope that happy things and events will be remem­bered ~-nd experienced. A'l these changes and more are real, and hopefully will become ·a recognizable part of each in­dividual's col,lege experience. 
It's 
the people 
by Bill McLean 
What can you .say about Notre Dame that hasn't already been said? With the cast of characters you have around here, it would seem safe to say almost nothing. However, being a bold young fool who isn't getting any wiser, I have been persuaded to make an ass of myself. This may not seem unusual to those that know me, but I might point out that there is a difference between beinq foolish and stupid. The former is what I usually seem to be while the later is what I am about to become. 
Notre Dame to me is people. People like Fr. Wilson, Fr. Griffin, Fr. Joyce and Fr. Mulcahy who each have their own approach and yet who all are trying to make Notre Dame a little better. Notre Dame to me is a cast of characters that encompasses ever type of personality known to exist and· then some. Characters like Fr. Lally, Fr. Riehle., Fr. McDonagh, and Fr. Hager who each have their own unique way of dealing with life. Notre Dame to me is a collection of individuals that are unforgetable. In­dividuals like Jim Hunt, H-Man, Pat Mclaughlin, and George Pompe. No two of whom are alike. 
The list is endless or at least seemingly so with such names as Brian McGinty, Bob Bode, and John Barkett coming to mind. 
Indeed, there are those who seem tohaveno last name and yet are friends such as Helen, Pat, Rosemary, Irene. Billie. June. and Marge. Without a doubt, Notre Dame is people which I suppose explains why things here seem so confusing and hard to keep up with and what can one say about being part of Notre Dame without thinking of a thousand faces and the times spent with the individuals who owned those faces. 
1wish 1 had something more spectacular to say, yet somehow I know that what I have said is what is most important to me. I may not be all that smart despite what I say to the contrary at times and yet somehow I feel that live has been good to me and that the main reason for such fullness is due to others who always seem to be there to share themselves in this adventure we call life. 
At this point, I probabl.v sound like Fr. Toohey which makes me wonder why I agreed to this arrangement. Nevertheless, I thank the Observer crew for this chance and thank all of those who have touched my life; particularly those who have done so in such a way as to enrich it. It has been my pleasure and privilege to be a part of this community for the last four years and I will always be grateful to the two people who m"ade it all possible Ma and Pa Mclean. 
' 
Wednesday, April 30, 1975
1 4 the observer -----­


--~---­
Editor's Note: This article completes the fifth year that the Rev. Robert Griffin has written for the Observer. 
'i 
For me, it is the celebration of the
) 
I<:ucharist that brings all of it together: the friendship, the caring, the sharing of life; whether it is among children or students; the religious Community of Holy Cross or the larger community of campus friends, or the families 1 have belonged to for a little while. The Eucharist ... the bread and wine of sacrifice, touched by the love of Christ, blessed by the Cross of Christ, gracing us together into aliveness in the Lamb. 
In the twenty-one years since I was or­dained. I have offered many hundreds and thousands of Masses; in every one of them I have prayed for my family: my mother, my sister. my brother. and my father, who has been dead now for thirty years. In all that lime. no member of my family--neither my mother. my sister. nor my brother--has ever attended a Mass I have said. There are no shabby reasons for this absenteeism. No neglect nor abuse of the ordained son and brother was intended. My sister and brother are simply not Catholics, that is all. When my mother finally decided to become a member of the Catholic parish back in Maine. it was a matter of quiet sacramental arrangements made between her and the local pastor; I wasn't informed until af­terwards. As a freshly recovered sheep, my mother did not feel ready to take her place among the handmaidens of the Pope who came with veils and rosaries to attend the eight o'clock Mass every morning. I think she feared the Galway blather of some daughter of Erin who would say, "Oh, Mary dear, isn't it grand that you're one of us now." and my mother would feel the ground shaking beneath her feet as my father rolled over in his grave. Or she dreaded the em­barrassment of comments in ambivalent praise of her son, the celebrant: "Oh, it's your little man, Mary; it's Father Robert. Doesn't he read the Latin well, with only just the slightest trace of a stammer; though to tell the truth, Mary, they were saying Sunday that his sermons are a little long." 
She thought to herself: she didn't go to Mass before I was ordained; she didn't intend to haunt the pews just because I had been ordained. It was tasteless to go, showing off like a Fulton J. Sheen convert; it was contrary to Yankee reticence. The Protestant relatives would consider her a fool if. at the age of sixty, she began running back and forth to the Catholic church. Even if the relatives didn't know about it, she 
Tuesday night the Alice Cooper Show visited Notn• DamP. lt'aving the audience with a quPstion of whatever happened to the rock and roll concert? Alice's new show has left the rt>alm of Gilbt'rt and Sullivan's musicals or I'.T. Barnum's circus's. The show opent>d with a lavishly choreographed ren­dition of "Wt'lcome to My Nightmare", also the I ille of thet•nlire production. The first of lht> many and varied characters to appear on stagt> was a two-faced giant, one of whose fact's was that of a m.>diPval devil and the otht>r a grotesque parody of a human face. Four danct'rs then leaped across the stage m ballet-lake form. heralding the arrival of Iht' drramt>r. Alice.

'l~l Through th(• course of the show. Alice was bitten. poisoned. encoiled. trampled and 
'·, thrown. in addition to doing some cutting 
j 
' ! and hamnwring himself. The stage was a ; \ mastt>rpiece of demonic design in itself. ~ t'omplett' with a bedpost of sticks crowned ! by what appeart>d to be human heads surrounding a moveable bed centerstage, a giant toy box into which Alice was deposited. and two giant pylons supporting a girder from which two of the major props wt>re suspended. The first of these was a twenty foot square spider web which was the backdrop for the most frightening part of Alice's nightmare. Three of the dancers. costumed as Black Widow spiders eame on stage, two of them climbing the webbing as the audience heard a horrifying dissertation on the deadlines of the Black Widow. Alice, in his nightmare, saw himself taunting the spiders to attack him, and so th{'y did as he fought back with a primitive 
Letters to a Lonely God 
a family feast 
reverend robert griffin 
would consider herself a fool for acting like 
some "ould Mother Machree." Religion was 
a private affair, she would forgive the son 
who got her into the Catholic version of it; 
but she didn't intend to become a 
cheerleader for his faith. Religiously, she 
would do what she had to do; but she didn't 
half to have every Delia and Deirdre and 
Bridget in Chistendom watching her do it. 
She never said all this, of course, but I 
guessed how she felt; but God knows, she 
didn't have to make the First Fridays for my 
sake. I knew too that privately she didn't 
think God would consider it a great sin if she 
sent a little money for the Congregational 
church's flowers every week. More darkly 
still, she didn't think He minded if she 
flavored the fish of the Friday abstinence 
with a few pork scraps, after ·the New 
England way of cooking. But she kept these 
little aberrations to herself, as though she 
feared, if I found out, I would think I had 
made a hypocrite out of my own dearest 
parent. As a Catholic, my mother isn't 
perfect; but as a human being, she has more 
truth in her than the Bishop. 
In June. my mother will be eighty years old; and in twenty-one years, we've never been in church together at the same time. I can picture myself saying, "Mother, is there some way we can get this relationship between us out of the closet?" I mean, it's not that she's a crypto-Catholic. It's just that if I am not in collar, she still introduces me to her friends as Mister. She doesn't at all mind my being a priest; from her sup­portiveness in essential ways, she may even be a little pleased with the fact. But she doesn't want to play a role as the reverend's mother, not if it means she has to watch me working at the rituals of redemption by which the parish worship is accomplished. When I have offered to say Mass for her at home, she will say, "Well, now, dearn, that seems a little silly. The pastor isn't feeling at all well; he brought me Communion just this morning. Why don't you just run along and serve Mass for him?" It doesn't matter that Masses are served by altar boys; she will still talk of my serving Mass. 
I used to think it was the Protestant ghosts in the walls of our house that she was afraid of offending. There were many ghosts at home. all of them Protestant; not only my father's, but my grandparents' ghosts as well. My grandparents lived in that house once. My brother and my sister still lived there. Outnumbered· as we Catholics were, my mother may have thought it impolite to get pushy with the pieties of a prayerbook 
approvated by prelates. 
I hope that some day soon my mother will let me put my life all together by saying a Mass for her: the work of the campus 
entering alice's 
dub. The drama continued as a nine foot 
tall cyclops first killed the spiders and then 
attacked Cooper as he mocked it. Again 
Alice WPnt down,to all appearances dead. 
But his dreams would allow him no respite. 
In a perfectly timed and executed sequence, 
a scrt>en arose onto which was projected a 
rathPr amateurish film of Alice in a 
graveyard. This scene. however, was 
turnPd into a spectacular success by a 
guitar dialogue. the only time the exellent 
hand was allowPd to exhibit their abilities, 
and by the perfect timing witil which Alice 
and tht' dancers burst through and back into 
lhf' projected images. 
ThP music was, to most listeners, secondary to thf' show. Cooper did play three of his hits t•arly in the program. driving the crowd insane as hf' sang "I'm t!:ighteen" while drt>ssed in a high s<;hool varsity sweater with the numb!"r eighteen in place of the school letter. His appeal to what was in larg(' part a high school audience came out at this pointand in his next to the last song, "School's Out." Thl" remainder of the music was from his new album and was primarily a \'l"hicle for the stage action. 
The show as a whole had some degree of eoherence in that it was a continuous drama 
presl"nting the horrors or one man's nightmar!"s. Alice smoothly worked in his hits, keeping them consistent with the overall theme of the production. Each individual scene nevertheless could stand on its own as a devastating combination of music. Yolumt', action, and visual effects. Lyrically, Cooper is not too poetic, neither is he musically rl"markable,_ but as. a per·. 
minister, the street priesting in New York, 
the life of the chaplain who travels, my days 
as parish priest, or teacher. But the days of 
my growing up in Maine belong to a whole 
other tradition; I am not yet at peace with 
my religious past; it always seems adrift 
from the rest of my life. One event jostles 
another in a lifetime until existence can 
become chaos, if there are not touching 
stones of faith for our experience. For me, 
the Mass has become such a touching stone. 
At each day's altar, I can, with the help of 
grace. separate the light from the darkness. 
That is why I need to say a Mass that can put 
it all together. 
I would. then, love to say Mass for my mother; but strangely enough, I won't mind too much if she continues to say no. There is a great danger in me, you may have noticed of taking myself and my vocation t~ Sl"riously. If you tend to be too serious about your ordained self, it helps keep you humble if someone like your mother resists you. My family is in little danger of spoiling me as a priest. At home among the relatives, my priesthood is treated as something quite dl"tached from the family experience. It is like a horse I can't bring into the living room. or a car that is left parked in the driveway. It is just as well that my family treats me that way: it keeps me from being ruined more than I am as a preacher-type. 
On Thursday afternoon, May 1st at five o'clock, if weather permits, I am going to celebrate Mass at the Grotto, and I hope you will com!". For me, as for you, standing at year's end almost on the brink of summer this Mass can bring a lot of things together: Obviously, it will be a Mass in honour of a Jewish mother. She must have refused at times to take her Son too seriously when He brooded; it probably helped to keep Him human. "Queen-rose of the rosebud garden of girls," Tennyson might have called her. Whatevl"r belongs to gentleness, thought­fulness. and beauty belongs to Mary. At Mass, I shall be thinking also of the thoughtfulness, gentleness, and beauty of my own mother. She is blue-eyed and Irish, and her name is Mary, too. She will be eighty years old in June; whatever I know of mothers, even God's mother, I know because of a loveliness first seen in my own Irish rose. 
I<:ven if I praise God for mothers--yours, mine. His, ours--our May Mass will not be a liturgical indulgence of sentimentality. Ther!" are, this yl"ar, too great a number of the dead to be remembered; too many mourners to be comforted; too many suf­ferers needing to be cheered with the promise of hope. 
''I am the Vine; ye are the branches," said the Lord. At the Eucharist, we 
nightmare 

celebrate our togetherness in grace and 
love. Ahead of us, at this time of year, lies a 
summer of separation; and for the seniors a 
permanent departure. Nearly behind us are 
the times of good fellowship recently lived 
through: the afternoons and evenings on the 
quads; the meals, the games, the trips, the 
drinks, the entertainments, the love, the 
tenderness, the tears. 
At the Eucharist is the promise that in 
belonging to the vineyard, we belong also to 
each other, and our roots are planted 
eternal. The Mass I celebrate in Manhattan 
the Mass you will attend in Detroit, the Mas~ 
in the Grotto on Thursday: all of them are 
the bread and wine of a family feast. Here is 
a homecoming that gives us to each other 
despite separation, and afterwards ~ 
laughter we will share in heaven. 
On May Ist, then, there is a Mass for Our 
Lady at five o'clock ... and soon after that 
the summer! ' 
On June 5th, the twenty-first anniversary 
of my ordination, I hope to be saying Mass 
at another Notre Dame: at the cathedral 
church in Paris. If mystic communings are 
true, you will be there with me in th~ way I 
remember you. 
I have been imagining a scenario of that 
anniversary occasion: me, standing at the 
high altar of the cathedral, with incense 
drifting in clouds around me, and the Glee 
Club humming Latin in the background. On 
the movie version, the role could be played 
by Barry Fitzgerald opposite Maria 
Ouspenskaya, as at the conclusion of Going 
MJ Way). 
Suddenly, out of the pews, a veiled figure 
will rise and move toward the Communion 
rail. 
"It's Mrs. DeGaulle," a Parisian will 
shout. 
"It's Jackie Onassis," another will cry. 
"It's a Kennedy woman," the choir will 
scream. I alone will know who the lady is. It will be no surprise to me when she throws back her veil. There, from Maine, five thousand miles from the parish church whose Catholic ladies she once snubbed, will stand the widow of the Yankee Fisherman acknowledging the Mass "server" as he; flesh and blood; and a mother and her son will be at home together in a church of their 
shared Catholic faith. 
To tell the truth, I don't_need cathedrals· it would be joy enough if she were just well. i think. for her, it is too late for Paris. But just once--at least.once---I wish we could break bread together on our knees. 
Please come to the May Day Mass. Bring sandwiches, if you like, for a lakeside supper. Darby O'Gill asked me to add: Griff_ and I never said we didn't love you. 
by greg young 
former he has taken the rock musical to a new height. 
The opening act was a lively performance by Suzi Quatro. queen of raunch and roll. llt•r backup band was, unfortunately, only .moderately talented <~nd in general unin­lerestmg. although the lead guitarist did .oroducP M lf'ast one imaginitive solo. The 
·cooper band was the same as had ap­peared with Lou Reed for his legendary concerts in !'Jew York. They were dressed in black capes and looked something like nineteenth century pallbearers. They deserve more recognition than they receive, for the solo guitar work of Steve Hunter was sppctacular and worthy of the best show in the rock and roll circus. 
Wednesday, April 30,197S the observer 
Top ten stories of 1974-75 

Ara's retirement 
:!. Ara Parst>ghian's rt>tirt>mt>nt: At the close of the 1974 season. leaving with a 94-16-4 record, Ara Parseghian an­nounces his retirement. In his final Orange Bowl showing, the team pulls it out for the coach, 13-11. He takes a position for tht' next year, working on "University Development." Coach Dan Dt'vine, formerly of the Green Bay Packers, replact's Parseghian. 

Lewis Hall 
:;. Lt•wis II all: Lewis Hall, originally built to house the women religious studying here, and which has housed as guest graduate women, is switched to the status of undergraduate womt'n's dorm. The graduate women are sent to Badin Hall. Tht' University also alludes to plans for graduate housing to be built in tht' next year, though they state that, at this time, 
' thert' are no funds for such a project. 
Duggan appointment 
1. Duggan ,\,lpointt'd to Sl\1(" Prt'sidency: After a year-long search. Dr. John M. Duggan is appointed by the Saint Mary's Board of Rt'gents to the position of College President. Dr. Duggan characterizes his expectations of his term as having "a st'nse of excitemt'nt and humor." 
SLC's sexuality rule 
Ill. Tht• SL(" St>xuality Hulings: Working on the vetoed ver­sion of the sexuality guidelines, the. SLC spends the greater part of the year on a revision. which is again vetoed by Fr. Hesburgh. Tht' discussions cripple the SLC for the best part .-.r thp vear. and they are largely inactive in other areas. 
Ford's visit 
1. Pt·esident Fm·d's Visit: Amidst a flurry of confusion as to his exact intention, a smattering or protest at a "political" appearance in an "academic" context, and the over-all reeling generated by the office of the Presidency, Gerald R. Ford accepts a Doctorate of Law degree in an ACC ct'rt'mony. Also included in the day's activities are a national mt'dia conference. a meeting with leading University presidents, and a national press conference. President Ford leaves a happy man. calling this "one of the best days in my life." In the aftermath, there is a debate over the ef­ft'ctiveness of the student walk-out. 

Calendar 
I. Tht• l!lit-i5 AcadPmic Calt>ndar: The Academic Council passt'S a Calendar which begins after Labor Day, to the chPers of students, faculty, and staff. But the illusion oLin put wears thin. and the actual calendar shows a minimal Thanksgiving break in the first semester. which enrages many. Once again, "You can't make a calendar that t>v('ryone can be happy with," says University Provost Fr. Jamt•s. T. Burtchaell. 


Football suspensiorlS 
:1. Fi1otball Suspt>nsions: Six football players are suspended for a parietals violation over the summer. Controversy surrounds the decision, which stems from an allege ·pe in Stanford Hall. The final decision to suspend is rle by Father Hesburgh. who states that the lives of th· .yers wt•re on the line with his judgment. 

B-ball ticket 
•
comprormse 
li. 
Baskt•tball Tick PI Compromist>: After the announ ·t>nt of a $28 charge for all student basketball tickets. 1ts becomt• t•nraged at the proposed dent in their '"'·'· Protest abounds, with a boycott proposed. Instead. a nw of proposals are arranged by Student Body Presidt•nt l\ll'Laughlin. and these are voted on by the students. The proposals are brought to Fr. Edmund Joyce, and a final proposal, charging $22 for padded seats and $18 for bl• · · iH·r s<'ats. is settlt'd upon. with a stipulation that the charr •e raised to $21 for tht' bleacht'rs this year. 

C.O.U.L. form: 

X. 
( ·ommitlt•t• 1111 l'ndt•t·graduatt> Lift> FormPd: Aft• to the Board of Trustees by seven student leadt'r:-. Studt•nt Body Prt'sident Pat McLaughlin and Editor Tom Drapt'. the Committee on l 1ndt'rgradu forml'd. Tht' Committee will study five art'as: il• studt•nt lift'. financt's. residentiality, and co-educat: final rt>port will bt• made to the Board of Trustees n 


Alcohol regulati< 1S 
!1 ..\kohol Ht•gulations: The year began with the SL ·nsion of all alcohol regulations on campus, because of th• .... : State Law which held the University responsibl• •r the conduct of those students who drank on its premt~ The an· also numt•rous raids on bars in the campus ar Indiana Alcoholic Bt'verage Commission. Universi• Dr. Philip Faccenda drafts a bill to relieve the L'n' lt>gal liability whilt' Student Government IeaderL student lobby to lower the drinking age to 18. At t·t•ssful voter registration drive, representative:>;., forthts yearwho art' sympathetic to the student It:; .Jy: The· Facct'nda Bill passt>s early m April. 

16 the observer ______:W:.:.e=-cdnesday, April 30, 1075 
Americans leave South Vietnam 
buildings around Saigon, unable It appeared that what tipped added two more demands-destroyed by the crowd at the States pulled out of Vietnam 
SAIGON CUPil -The United 
to get transportation because of the scales and forced the issue withdrawal of U.S. naval forces U.S. Embassy. Tuesday. The last American 
the city's 24-hour curfew. was an ultimatum from Presi-from Vietnamese waters and At least one of the U.S. Some Vietnamese went with dent Minh to U.S. Ambassador disarming of Saigon's army and telephone circuits was out ofofficials fled the country and 
the Americans. Others, by the Graham Martin. In effect, Minh police. order.
left it up to the Vietnamese to 
hundreds, gathered outside the told Martin he had 24 hours to There was an unconfirmed The automatic FM radiofind peace. 
The Americans were ordered U.S. Embassy pleading to be leave the countrv. report from a political source' station run by Americans in out by new President Duong taken along. Marines were Saigon surrounded late Tuesday that the govern-Saigon continued its Muzak-like Van Minh to meet one of the flown in by helicopter to guard . ment would agree if necessary broadcasting long after it was 
Communists' major conditions the compound-and the depart-At that point, -the Communists to disarm most of its forces. abandoned. But by midnight, for peace talks-an end to the ing Americans. had Saigon hemmed in with Within hours, signs of the the tapes had run out and the 
U.S. presence. Political sources Yet other Vietnamese found 150,000 troops, had just taken American presence already station had ceased broadcsting.
their own way out. A Pentagon the 23rd of South Vietnam's 44 were disappearing. Most of the government's
said the Communists and the Saigon government had agreed spokesman said in Washington provinces-Bien Hoa-and had A youthful mob looted the generals were gone, including
about 10 Vietnamese helicopters the capital itself within range Brink Hotel, a U.S. landmark in the Saigon city defense com­in principle to call a cease-fire 
Wt•dnesday. ditched near the amphibious of its Soviet-made 130mm guns. downtown Saigon. The hotel mander, Lt. Gen. Nguyen Van ship Blueridge, but that all But as the Americans left, had housed American officers Minh. He went out on one of the
!too .-\mt•ricans leave 
crt>wmen were rescued. the shooting died out. And for for more than 10 years and was U.S. Marine helicopters.
Some 900 Americans quietly Some Vietnamese. mostly the first time since 1965, Saigon twice bombed by the Viet Cong. President Minh called a hut quickly climbed aboard military officers and families, issued no daily war com­Abandoned American hom.es meeting of all his Saigonhelicopters for the final flight made it to the Philippines, munique. were looted and property command generals.
nut. Th<'y would remember for Taiwan and Singapore, and at There was no immediate stolen. The UPI bureau car was Only one showed up.\Pars the Vietnamese cries of least 70 planeloads landed in confirrr:ation of the reported ·.. Pleast• ht>lp me! Please help Thailand. Some of the planes, cease-fire agreement between 
.. mp'" that cut even through the according to reports reaching Saigon and the Viet Cong. Vice t -SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR noist• of tht> whirring propellers. Washington. apparently were President Nguyen Van Huyen 
NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS
\'ietnamt•se crowded by the stolen. denied it. 
hundn•ds in front of the U.S. Two marines killed But knowledgeable political,. Embassy. plt>ading for a ride sources said Huyen had been in 

$695 $895
out. "l'lt>ast> take my children." The deaths of Marine Cpl. contact with the Viet Cong 
t-riPd ont> young woman clutch­Charles McMahon Jr. of Wo-delegation at Saigon's Tan Son 
Single occupancy Double occupancy Ing an American. A well­burn. Mass., and Lance Cpl. Nhut airbase and had reached drt•Sst>d young man told ano­Darwin L. Judge of Marshall-a tentative agreement. 
No Notre Dame identification required, justtht>r. "If you will help me get town. Iowa. apparently helped llut·~·n 
mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
out of Vietnam. I will give you prompt the American evacua­
' 
'{ ' $200,000 ... tion. They died in a barrage of Huyen himself appeared on ~ '; But there was nothing more Communist rocket and 130mm official Saigon Radio and 
HICKORY INN MOTEl 
the AmPricans could do. artillery fire that pounded television to say his govern-' 
50520 U.S. 31 North
Saigon's Tan Son Nhut air base ment had decided to meet the Era of high costs in the predawn hours of last two demands of the Viet 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 
Tuesday. C'ong for the opening of peace 
(219) 272-7555
The departure ended an era 
Within hours, President Ford talks-an end to American 
3 miles North of the Tollroad
that cost the United States 14 
decided to go with "Option 4" intervention in Vietnamese af­years. $150 billion and more 
Cable T.V., Air Cond.. Phones.
-a final helicopter evacuation fairs and abolition of the Saigonthan 50,000 lives-the last of similar to that carried out April "war machine." 
Send this ad to your parents
which were two U.S. Marines 
12 in Phnom Penh. But in Paris, the Viet Congkilled in a Communist attack on 
;~::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::;:;:;:;:;::::~:~;!:~:~:~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::~:::~::;;;;;:;:;:;:;:::::;:::::::;:;:::::;:;:;:::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;::::::::
Saigon's airport early Tuesday 
that spurred the pullout. 
The evacuation came 2.7 days lli AND NOW FOR SOMETHING COMPLETELY DIFFERENT. ~1~1 after the United States aban­doned Cambodia and closed out 
U.S. involvement in Indochina. 
ith fleet to leave 
Marine CH53 helicopters pro­tected by Navy F4 Phantom jets and Marine helicopter gunships ferried the Americans to carriers waiting in the South C'h ina sea. The 7th Fleet vessels were expected to leave quickly. thus meeting another Communist demand -that American ships quit Viet­namese waters. 

The pullout went fairly smoothly. The Communists had said they would not interf~ with the American departure 
and apparently lived up to their 
word. 
At 1 a.m. Wednesday, the t>vacuation was still under way. Unconfirmed reports said some Americans were still stalled in 




the accountancy departments of 
DePaul University 
and 
University of Illinois 
at Chicago Circle 
offer a joint intensified 
CPA REVIEW 
for the November Exam 
Days at Circle Campus Evenings at DePaul University 
Classes conducted by distinguished faculty from both institutions and master practitioners 
REGISTER NOW 
Review starts June 23 
and ends November 1 
Phone or Write CPA REVIEW DePaul University 
25 E. Jackson Boulevard Chicago, IL 60604 Phone: (312) 321-7820 



Wednesday, April 30, 1975 the observer 17 '· 
700 arrive in California 
Vietnamese air lift continues 

Bv LAWHENCE OLSEN 
CAMP PENDLETON, Calif. (UPI > -The vanguard of a massive airlift of Vietnam{'se 
"" refugees moved into a quonset hut-tent city Tuesday on this marine base which was in the midst of a mock war. About 700 men. women and children were bought in through the day on flights from Guam to begin a new life in a strange land with some California 
V officials voicing hopes that they · would not be saddled with their , care. Th{' biggest contingent of 356 arrived on a chart{'red blue and silver DC10 emblazoned with the words "Holidayliner Free­~ dom." For the most part, they :-were unsmiling as they came down the ramp and walked across the apron at the El Toro Marine Air Station. A few children broke into smiles. One litte boy in a white shirt turned wide eyes on photographers and then burst 
Plea results 
A daughter's plea to University of Not rt> Dame officials has rt>sulted in a reunion with her parents in Miami after a flight from Cuba that was sidetracked through Spain. Now blind and in failing health. the father. Juan l't•rez. n•ceived a civil engineering dt•gree from Notre Dame in 1907. 
lml'!da PerPz di Castaneda's lett{'r of March 17 to "Body of Professors at Notre Dame" was delivered to the dean of ad­ministration. Lro. M. Corbaci. Written in Spanish because she admittedly was weak in the English expression of sentiments, the Miami woman said she was appealing to her father's school for all possible assistance in removing the legal barriers to his return to tht> United States. 
Waiting in Miami this month to gr{'{'t Pt>rez and his wife of 64 years WPrt' four sons. three daughters. 25 grandchildr{'n and three great-grandchildren. Mrs. Castaneda's lett{'r was translated by Kathy Odbt>rg{'r, a senior from South BPnd who has been active in summ{'r volunteer work in Spanish-sp{'aking countries. At the 
r------------· ------------~
I MA RECORD RACK I
i $1 OFF I I ALBUM I 
OF YOUR I 
CHOICE
1 I 
(with this coupon) 
I 

·A F~~!:!}a~!; sroa•:l 
NEXT TO RIVER I 2923 MISH. AVE. PARK THEATRE _J 
.. . ..... . -. :
:
"----·-----------------­
into an ear-to~ar grin. An 
{'lderly woman, stylishly 
dressed opened a white parasol­
to shade herself from the 
brilliant sunshine. 
After being cleared by customs and immigration, they W{'re bused to the huge Pendleton base where a "city" had popped up overnight on the northern part of the reservaion about five miles from former President Nixon's home. 
Field maneuvers had been schedul{'d for this period long ago by the Marines but a spokesman said the refugees probably would see little of them although jet airplanes would be frequently overhead. 
The first group was said to be among the higher echelon of Vietnamese society, many of them wives and children of Americans or civilians who had worked for the United States government in Vietnam. 
One girl in a brilliant, chic pink dress held the hand of her husband who was dressed in a 
tn reunzon 
saml' timP. the office ol Congn•ssman John Brademas was contacted by a field rt>presen­tative. Frank Sullivan, Jr., and the 
li.S. State Department was asked to intt>rvene. 
!\!iss Osberger subsequently was informttd by Mrs. Castaneda that ht>r part>nts had received per­mission from the Castro govern­mmt to fly to Spain on April 2 and ht>nct> to Amt>rica. Th{'y had rPmained in Cuba, it was ex­plained. because they wished to stay with another daughter. With th{' death of this daughter last year. the parents began {'fforts to rejoin their oth{'r children in 1\liami. 
The combined efforts of all parties resulted in a new letter rect>ived this week at the University: With much respect I salute you. W{' are very grateful . for your g{'stur{'S that favored our parents. In spite of their age, they have sane minds and they rPmt>mbt>r with affection and pride Notr{' Dame. My father tells his grandchildr{'n that in his tim{' it is lik{' now with the famous football t{'am." Castaneda wrote. 
blue sports shirt. including pediatrcians. 
The group Tuesday was taken Expressing concern about to Camp Talega which had their arrival was Calfornia readied 50 quonset huts holding Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. 20 persons apiece and 90 tents who said the state "cannot for 16 persons each. Two mess afford to have any more halls were ready to serve hot un{'mployed people iving here." m{'als and there were 30 J:o:stimates of the number m{'dical corpsm{'n on hand and coming into Pendleton have also a nmber of doctors numb{'red up to 20,000 which is 
Commencement plans 
Continued from page 3 form during Commt>ncem{'nt which will include a gu{'st speaker from outsid{' the Univ{'rsity yet to lw announct>d. and packing of th{' last of !h{' diplomas for distribution. Tht> northeast corn{'r of the Ht•gistrar's Offic{' now in dominatt>d by th{' whit{' boxes containing th{' diplomas, which wht•n full. will hold approximately 2,080 of th{'m. Each t>nvelop{' containing a diploma is gold sealed and blu{' tagged, and will be given to tht> p{'rson wl:!ose nam{' app{'ars in the corn{'r b{'ginning at l :00 pm on th{' Sundav of Commencem{'nt in th{' north{'~n dome of the ACC. llpon arriving through Gate 3, 
Miller outstanding 
St>nior Joan{'ll Milier has been 
selt>Ct{'d by (;(a mom· Magazine as 
on{' of the t{'n outstanding college 
stud{'nts for 1975. 
l\1iss 1\till{'r, who will b{' featured 
in tht• August iSSU{' of (;(amour, 
will rt>crivt• a free trip to New York 
and $500. 
:\ n•cipi{'nt of the Borden 
scholarship for her junior year, 
l\1 iss 1\1 ill('r is majoring in English 
writing. English literature, and 
govPrnnwnt. She was {'mployed by 
tht• South Rt•nd l{{'development 
Commission last year and 
dPvt>lOp{'d "Th{' Hiver B{'nd 
(;azPtte." an adv{'rtising insert 
which won recognition by the 
Indiana Advt>rtising Council. 
ShP will t'nter Northwestern 
l'nivt•rsity Law School in the fall. 
END OF SCHOOL YEAR 
SALE! 
THIS THURSDAY, FRIDAY & SATURDAY BEFORE LEAVING THE GOLDEN DOVE IN YOUR REAR-VIEW MIRROR, BOOGIE DOWN TO 
YJrR~ 
50 ¢ Off ALL $3.99 AND $4.99 ALBUMS $ J.OO OFF ALL $5. 99, $6. 99, AND $3.99 ALBUMS 
PLUS NEW RELEASES BY: 
PLUS 'P. PE"=> 'PArFR'":l 
TAp.£."> C,o,.\i ~ 
919-1 COLLEGI SQUARE MISHAW~KA, INDIANA ·255·0266 (across from Town &· Country) 
thosl' to r{'c{'ivt> Baccalaur{'ate or 1\las!Prs dt>gr{'{'S will find tabl{'S arranged in two S{'mi'Circles--on{' along thP Past wall for th{' Coll{'g{' nf Arts and Lt>tters. and the oth{'r along th{' wpst wall forth{' Coll{'ges nf Busint>ss Administration. Sl'iPnt'{', and Engin{'ering. At thPS{' tabl{'S dt>partmPnt chairm{'n will pass out diplomas. After th{'y havP hP{'n picked up, the receivers are askt>d to ass{'mbl{' along the outt>r pPrimPter of th{' ar{'a set up nPar th{' hockey rink for the proc{'ssion soon aft{'r which will start th{' proc{'ssion. 
Boar's Head 
LUNCHES MONDAY thru FRIDAY 11:30 -2:15 DINNER MONDAY thru SATURDAY FROM 5:00­
SUNDAY FROM 4:00 WE HONOR CHARGE CARDS 
55285 U.S. 31 NORTH 
272-5478 
*ERIC CLAPTON 
*LEON RUSSELL 
*CARL Y SIMON *BOB SEGER 
*BAD COMPANY 
a larger populaion than that of the nearest town, San Clemen­te. Its mayor, Tony DiGiovanni said he was worried abut the state of health of the refugees. 
"I just have to assume they would be restricted to the camp at least for a quarantine period," DiGiovanni said. dupli­cate to b wire points 
announced ~ ' 
; 
Doctor of Philosophy d{'grf'{' n•cipients will r{'C{'ive tht>ir diplomas p{'rsonally from Fath{'r llt•sburgh during the Com­mt•ncPmt>nt '-'{'rPmony ._ 
f"athPr llesburgh will tht>n conf{'r th{'ir degr{'es bv l'itation. Th{' ord{'r of conferrings wall b{' as follows: tht> Law 
School's Juris Doctorat{'S, 1\lasters oth{'r than M.B.A.'s. and Masters of Busin{'SS Administration. followPd by Baccalaur{'at{' degrees fprm th{' Coll{'g{'s of Arts and Lt>tt{'rs. Sci{'nC{', Engine{'ring and Business Administration. 

18 

(t. 
\\ lu·n lim·~ tht• 11:\IBl'J)S:\),\!\ st•nict" dOSt" UJ) this St"lllt"Stt>r? 

A. 
Ttwsday. !\lay ti. will hl' thP last day of operation. 


11 I am ;1 st'ninr a nil h<1' t•n ·i ~ t•t l'l'('('ivt•ll m~· graduation an-r lltlliiJI'l'llH'IIIS. \\ lw shnuhl I l'nntal'l'! 
\ • :mtat'l no om·; th<'y an· waiting for you in thP HPgistrar's office a~ ''· •·II :ts anything t'IS<' c·omwct<'d with graduation you might need. 
1;. \\hat 11ill Ill' tht•lwur·~ uf tht• 0:\JIIl'DS:\L\:'1: st'rvict•nl'xt fall'! 
.\ ·1 ill' orgarm.at ion which daims "If wP can't help you, we know , -.dw l'an'". will lw answPring phone l·alls \l::lO am to 5:00 pm1 \londav through Friday and 10:00 pm to 12:00 pm Monday through 
Tllur~day. 
q_ \\hat ''a~ tht• M'lTt•t l'hant rt'l'itl'd b~· tbt• (;rl't'n Lantt-rn as ht" 
ro·t·hargt·tl hi~ IW\\1'1' ring'? .\ Till'< ;r!'\'0 Lantern's chant goes as follows: "Through brightest da~. through darkest night, Jet no evil escape my sight. Let those "'"'"""~hip , vii's might, bewart' my power. Green Lantern's 
lights." 

for a pleasant change of scenery. (photos by Paul Joyce). 
'Guns1noke'cancelled
J 
after 20-year TV run 
gambler and his show girl wife;
NE\\' YORK UP! -The CBS "Phyllis." a spin-{)ff from theTell'vision Network cancelled Mary Tyler Moore Show starring"(;unsmoke." the second longest­Cloris Lt-achman as Phyllis; andrunning prime time show in TV "Joe and Sons" starring Richardhistory, after 20 consecutive years Costellano as a widowed .blue
of broadcasting. 
collar worker trying to raise hisThe announcement was part of two sons.
C'BS' new fall lineup that included the cancellation of five other shows and the addition of nine new 

• 
Circle K designated .'Club of Year' 
Tht• first project of the school fook part in the "Shamrocks for.
l'irdP K is an intt•rnational 
~·par was a dean-up around the Dystrophy" ('ampaign in March.
social st>rvice organization 
lakPswhich netted twelve bag of The last· project of tnt' falleomposPd of collegt> students in all 
trash. e<ins. papt•r. Pte. The next sPmPster was a Cl)ristmas partyfiflv statPs and Canada. It is af­WP!'kl'nd dub mPmbPrs h<'lped for th1• pt.'oplt' at the CardinalfiliatPd with Kiwanis ln­
with thl' annual South Bt•nd :\ursing llomt•.
l~rnational. The Notr!' DamP dub . Kiwanis nPwspapt•r sah·. ~'irclt' K Tlw n't)'ding projt'ct which· was''as chartPrPd last !\lay 4. 
nwmll!'rs helpPd raist·· $:l50 for to twgin st•cond st•mt•stt•r activities Sim·p that limP the dub has local eharit it•s. fPII through. but in Ft•bruary ·a. ht•eomP active in campus and 
:\!om•;· for· thP dub's own ac­
community activitiPs. and at this projPct was twgun at Logan In­
. tivitit•s ·was raist•d 'at hot dog dustri!'s which Parnect the dub a
· ,·l'ars's Indiana District Con­
~·pnfinn was awardPd the "Club of stands on two homt• football sPcond placP district award in the '· !hl' Year" award. Al:-o. two 
Saturdays. ThP hot dogs "s!Pamt•d an•a of nmct•rn for dt'pt·ndt•nt and 
in h!'Pr." brought in $70 for dub rwgl<'~l ed pt•rsons. . Logan In­nwmlll'rs wt•rt• dPcted district projPt'IS. Excess hot dogs Wl'n' dustries is a non-profitofficpr·s for the coming year. Tom donat!'d to lklos lloust', a local organization .which PmploysSchn!'llenlwrgPr was Plt>cted 
(;owrnor and .JackiP Simmons drug n·habilitation group. rPtarded adults to do simple tasks 1'1•rhaps thP higgt•st undertaking for Yarious husinessPs.
was dt•ct <'d St•crt't ary-Treasurer. llirl'cling tht> dub the past year of the first semPster was-the lrilf'rspPrSPd in the working day 
hav!' ht>en officrs Tom hosting of the Fall Issues Con­an· dasst's that attPmpt to teach 
SchnPIIPnbergPr. pn•sidt>nt ; Kevin ft•n•m·t•. Ovt•r forty Circle K hasit· concepts of physical exer­
Ford. dct'-presidt>nt ;Jackie nwmtwrs from clubs throughout dsP. grooming. arts and crafts. Indiana joinc·d the Notre Dame timt•. mom•y.Ptc. Circle K
Simmons. st>cretary; and Ann 
<;ardm•r. I rPasun•r. 
dub for a WPI'kmd of projpcts. nwmht•rs havt• voluntPer~d limP in nH'Piings and partying. lht• afiPrnoons to teach somt• of Tht• mnft>n•nct' bt•gan Friday thPse dassPs. Ol'lobn 4 · with a party for A projt'CI which is going on at 
ehildn•n at the Family and this limP is lhl' marathon <'hildn•n Cm!Pr in Mishawaka. haskptball gamt• co-sponsored byf • On Saturday morning a district l 'in·lt• K and thP Social Com­hoard mPI:'t ing was ht'ld and the mission. Donations are being a fl ernoon 's program included taken for tht• Muscular Dystrophyspt•akt•rs on Cirde K's major Association. Pmphasis an·as: PnvironmPntal On 1\pril 26, the club held its 
;;D;;;i:;;~ t'Onl'!'l'ns. prison concerns. yPar-md banquet and installed m·glPctPd and dPpt'ndent persons officPrs for lhl' coming year.t·om·t•rns. ht•alth concerns and Thos!' nfficPrs art•: Janet 
sf udt•nt concerns. Spillman. pn•sidl'nt; C'Piestt' Volz, 
In Novt>mber dub mPmbers ,·icP-prt•sidPnt; Linda Tt'mpel,eanntsst'd an•as of South BPnd to secrPtary: .loan Wiegand.collt'l't mnm·v for the Muscular I n·asun•r; and Ann' GardnPr, Dystrophy Association. Tht>y also hoard m!'mlwr. 
_u r 
STUDENTS TAKE ADVANTAGE of the rare South Bend weather as classes move outside 
BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY 
Good Potential Income No Age Barrier Full or Part Time Contact D. A. Doxie 503 N. Blaine Ave. South Bend, IN (219) 234-4469 
OLYMPUS 
OM 
SYSTEM 



Cavalier Camera 
SCOTTSDALE MALL SOUTH BEND 
and 
. U.S. 31, NILES, MICH. 
OLYMPUS 
Niles store: OM-I MD 

£1.8 lens Chrome Body 
Observer 
Coverage Of: 
Graduation Cheerleader's Convention Alumni Reunion Letters to a Lonely God Administration Antics 
Lear to 
William P. Lear, best known for the developmen,t and manufac­turing· of the Lear Jet, will deliver the lecture at the College of Engineering's Honor Awards ceremony Friday. The program, which is open to the public, will begin a 3:30p.m. in tbe Centr for CDntinuing Education auditorium. 
Everyone in the University community is invited to attend the ceremonies. Beginning at 3 p.m. Friday, all classes taught by. the College of Engineering will be cancelled to allow all engineering students to attend the event. · Five individuals, three Notre Dame alumni, will receive the 1975 Engineering Honor Awards. They include William .J. W Halligan, 
MD dance 
sucessful 
Darryl Chock and Pete Kinsella of Notre Dame won the Social Commission's Dance Marathon for Muscular Dystrophy. The winner was determined by the amount of money the contestants had raised for Muscualr Dystrophy slnce all five couples that entered the contest completed the thirty-six hours of dancing. 
Chock and Kinsella won the first prize of three hundred dollars worth of travel expenses for raising five hundred and four dollars. They were sponsored by Grace Hall, Farley Hall, and Farrell's. Trophies were awarded to both the second and third place finishers. Barbara Halley and Dan Mellett, sponsored by the Kinghts of Columbus, came in second and Jane O'Donnell and Roy Deda came in third. 
... 
Fitzsimons 
•
recetves Award 
:\ n•teran University of Notre DamP professor of history. Dr. :\Jatthew :\: Fitzsimons. has bet'n ~Pl(•cted hy fellow faculty mem­h(•rs and students to rPceive the Father Charles E. Shet'dv Award of 1!175 for ('XCt'llPnce in it'aching. 
At·companied hy a $1,000 gift from an anonymous donor. tht' award id presentt>d each yt'ar during th(• fall mt>t'ting of the ( 'nlh•gP of Arts and Letters ad­\'isorv council. 
A t~ach(•r at Notrt' Dame for :38 yPars. Fitzsimons is a specialist in Brit ish history. Amt>rica 's fort'ign policy and international relations. II(• is tht> author or co-author of se\'l'ral hooks and articles in p(•riodicals. and has sPrved as (•ditor of "Tht' HPviPw f Politics." a Notrt' DamP quarterly 1rt>at ing philosophical. and historical appoacnt>s to political rPalitiPS. 
A rPct'nt !'Valuation of the profpssor in a studt'nt handbook statt>d that "Fitzsimons is a uni\'l'rsal man and unt>quivocally qualifit>d to tt'ach history and historians. Tht' opportunity to know him and work with him should not be passed up by any s(•rious studt>nt. whether this is his major arpa of study or not." 
Born in NPW York City, Fitz­simons rt>ceivt'd dt'grees from Columbia llnivt'rsity. Oxford University and tht' University of Chicago. A membt'r of tht' AmPrican and Catholic Historical Associations and the Indiana AcadPmv of Scit'nce. ht' has been l'itPd by -national organizations for his scholarly achievements. 
The Shet'dy Award is namt'd for the former dean of the College of Arts and Letters who is currently serving on the theology faculty at Notre Dame. Previous recipients 
1 of the award have included the late Francis J. O'Malley. Joseph E\·ans. William Storey Robert YS~cca and 1\1 ichael J .' Loux. 
deliver 
retired chairman of the board of Hallicrafters Company; Charles 
W. Mueller <B.S., E.E.'34), fellow of RCA Laboratories; John A. <B.S.,E.E.'48l, vice president and general manager, AiResearch Manufacturing Company of California; Francis L. VerSnyder<B.s.; Met.'50l, manager of materials engineerin~ and research, Pratt & Whitney Air­craft, and Harry F. Vickers, retired president of Sperry Rand Corporation. 

MOVIN' AND GROOVIN' their way to victory, Darryl and Pete demonstrate the style that made them champions. 
Kissinger doesn't blame Soviets 
WASHINGTON UPI -Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger said Tuesday he did not blame the Soviet Union for the rise of Com­munist power in Portugal. He warned against "ascribing every reverse we have to our Communist opponent because that makes them appear 10 feet tall." 
"I think it would be a great mistake to blame the Soviet Union for what happended in Portugal," he said in answer to a news con­fert•nce question. 
"It may have taken advantage of the situation in Portugal. But the fact that the Communist Party in Portugal has emerged despite the fact in recent elections it had only 12 per cent of the vote cannot be ascribed to Soviet machinations but due to causes that are much more complicated and also due to evolutions in Europe that have roots quite different from Soviet pressure. 
lecture 
bearing the University's seal. is 
bestowed annually on individuals 
or organizations for Significant 
contributions to the advancement 
of engineering or architecture, or 
for meritorious achievement in 
their fields by an engineer or 
architect. 
I 
Internationally recognized as a 1 designer and inventgr·, Lear currently is involved in research and development of low-pollution power systems to replace the in­ternal combustion engine. In the past three and a half years, he has established Titanium West Cor­poration. William Lear En­terprises, Lear Motors Cor­poration and LearAvia. The subject of his lecture will be "Infinite Energy."' 
College of Engineering students also will be recognized at the award ceremonies for special honors received during the 
, 
Academic Council 
(continued from page 1) 
Courses suggestd as sample mini-eourses included a class in Plato's He1mblic. a course in mortgage banking, or a class on tht> :\mt>rican Hevolution. 
Crosson stated that the mini­courst>s would "offer a greater. \·ariety of ehoices for elective courses. would give greater access to teacht>rs difficult to get courses with. and. most of all, would allow for courses to ve clustered in related st'quences more t'asily." 
lk predicted that. after a suf­t'i_cient period of time, students will have a choice of twice as many dectivt's as they do now. 
Wilhemy rt'marked th film­courses will present the op­portunity for students to see what d(•partmPnts other than their own or teachers not in their respective d(•partmPnts art' like. 
"I think it will be popular with the :students," commented Hicks. 
In its final action. thf.' Council \'OtPd to recpive the Committee on. the Course Study's report section on l'ducational technology and rpfpr it to the coordinator of 
•.•dueational mt>dia who will join tht' t 1niversity's staff next year. 
Coupons redeemed 
Unused Laundry-Dry Cleaning 
coupons issued during the period 
from August 27, 1974 to May 2, 1975, 
may be redeemed for cash during 
the week of May 5 to May 9 at the 
Laundry Building (north of the 
Grottol at the followingt1mes: 
9:00a.m.tol1:00a.m. 
1:00p.m.to 3:00p.m. 
Only coupons issued during the 
school year, 1974-75, will be 
redeemed. No refunds will be 
made after May 9, 1975. 

.-----------------------,
I THIS SUNDAY NIGHT (MAY 4 )\lSI 
N.D. & S.M.C. NIGHT AT SHULA'S'
I
1NO COVER CHARGE WITH THISAlA 
I · I 
I NOW APPEARING 
I 
I 
II NEON CAT I I 
1 I 
~ AND I 
~ I II LIsTEN I
I~St,ufcl: n'!e .C/,lb i 
NO COVER CHARGE TUES WED THURS I 
•l o~ U S 31 Mtwet" Milts So Bend-FrM l'1rk1n& 68~350 1 
_________________________JI..
l 


IMPERIAL MUSIC 
STORE CLOSIN~G 
1~17 Unoolll WQ Wnl. So. Bend Store Only Up 50% 
ENTIR£ STOCK
SaVe .To 
MUSIC &INSTRUMENTS 
UI~t Cltolonial lJfaucttkt -nu.st 
"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
•===:::!'!========:======================:m::::::=!=:::::::::::::::::::::=:========-==~===w 
;:;: 35 Varieties of Pancakes :;:;: ;:;:chicken -Steak -Sandwiches :;:;: !ii3 Friday Nites:-Perch Dinners ~~~~: :~:::::::::::::;:;::::::::~:::~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
Your Host
U.S. 31 ( Dixieway) North (Across ·from Hoi iday Inn) ·Bob Edwards, NO 'SCt] 
THE BIKE RACK 
TUNE-UP NOW FOR SPRING PARTS & SERVICE ON ALL AMERICAN AND 
FOREIGN-MADE BIKES LOCATED ONE BLOCK EAST OF THE DISTILLERY ON RD. 23 ·IN GREENWOOD SHOPPING, CTR OPEN 9:30-6:30 DAILY MONDAY-SATURDAY 277-1391 

YES 
There wiII be Mass and supper the next two Fridays.: 
Come, and bring a 
friend • • • 5 p.m. 
---~--:-::-------..,..----------------------­

20 the observer Wednesday, April 30, 1975 
Couple to discuss dune ecology 
Tht> topic. "Saving the Dunes by EnPrgy ·Commission <AEC>. filing datP thP citizens have been Stopping thP Bailly Nuclear ThP Ht•ad's active participation. fighting to block construction l'lant," will be discussed by is due mainly to a series of in­arguing that thP plant would en­('harlottP and HPrbert Read, IPractions betwPen thP Council, dangPr lhP survival of CowlPs Bog mt•mbers of thP Save the Dunes and PvironmPntal group in the and othPr DunPs land. Earlier in Council. on Thursday May 1, at llunPs a rPa, and the two lhP month lhPy succePded when a 
ll::lo in lhP Haggar Hall Lounge. organizations which began in 1971 fPdPral court in Chicago ordered Tht> disscussion, which is whPn NIPSCO filed for a permit to NIPSCO lo halt construction and \ sponsort>d by lnPIHG. will center build a nuciPar plant next to In­also lo havP lhP site filled in. on l'itizt•n action against the diana DunPs National Lake shore ThP struggle was mainly with Northt>rn Indiana Public Service Past of Gary. 
lhP WAEC and in 1972 the council 
l'o. <NIPCOl and the Atomic ThP thrt>e year period since the 

filed a suit against them because of lht>ir rpfusal to aid the group in thPir objPctions. The hearings
Food co-operative membership fee 
l'onlinuPd with Ht>rbert RPad, an archiiPcl and naturp Pxpert, and Ed Osann. an attornPy leading the can be charged to student billing way for PnvironmPntalists. The outcomt• was a ruling in favor of Students who sign up for a which is tentatively scheduled to thP plant and IhP citizens group
\ 
be located on East LaSalle Street, appt>akd. rt>sulting in thP federal
mPmbership in the off-campus 
will be completed over the summer l'ourl hParings.
food co-Qp may now charge the five by Shankel and several otherdollars fee to their student billing students. He stated that anyoneaccounts. According to Steve who will be in the South Bene:! areaShank ell, co-Qrganizer of the co­over the summer and would beop, the charge will be placed on 
willing to help renovate the
the student's first billing card of building should contact him.
next year. He also emphasized that students will not Shelves, a security system and automatically be charged the fee if refrigeration units will be installed they do not sign up personally. over the summer and the co-Qp 
hopes to be in operation by theThis procedure was approved second week in eptember, ac­yesterday by Fr. Carl Ebey, cording to Shankel.
director of student accounts, and Bro. KiPran Ryan. Both were Shankel will serve as the instrumental in getting the plan manager of the co-Qp and will be accepted.. assisted by Jim Wershing. The 
policies of the co-op will be set by aShankel hoped this method of board of directors composed of the 
paymPnt would encourage 
SBP, the general manager of the
students to purchase mem­
co-op, a representative from theberships. 
N.D. credit union, a representative 
Shankel reemphasized that from SMC. and others to be named mPmberships were open to St. later. Mary's students as well as An advisory council will also be 
members of the faculties and staffs Pstablished to lend professionalof both schools. He also reiterated help to the co-Qp. The council will that.he was still in need of persons consist of professors form the to work on the membership drive University who would be willing to 
and the coop organization. Anyone lend assistance. Shankel noted interesteds should call Shankel at that he was now looking for . 288-3176. _professors willing to serve on the 
Work on the site of the co-Qp, council. 
House Painting 
DOES YOUR HOME 
NEED PAINTING? 
EXPERIENCED 
PAINTERS (TWO N.D. 
GRADUATES) WILL 
PAINT INTERIOR­
EXTERIOR 
VERY REASONABLE!! 
CALL 234-1889 For Free 
Estimate 
STEWART MCGUIRE SHOES 
With the Sp~ing Step cushion 
DAD & FAMILY 
503 N. Blaine Ave. So. Bend 234-4469 
Connecticut Baggage Truck 
for Information 
call Mike -8766 or George-8772 
~ NDT1i~l:yot sMc~rr~ 
at8:00P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
THE AT RE 
All Seats $2.00 Reserva lions 
Students-Faculty-Staff
284-4176 
fTO-Ni~-uNivERsirY·;;;;;~~~--,
I I 
17993 STATE ROAD 23 272-0083 
I 
I CONVENIENTLY LOCATED I 
AT THE CORNER OF
I 
IRONWOOD AND STATE
I
I ROAD 23 
I ACROSS FROM THRIF-T-MART 

I 10 PERU:.NT DISCOUNT TON.D. & S.M.C. STUDENTS 
I 
COMPLETE CAR CARE
I 
I I 
I ALWAYS THE BEST 
I I 
I IN GAS SERVICE 
I I 
I AND MECHANICAL 
I WORK 1 
L-------------------------­

;------------------------------ij=~-~--jFi~~---------------i 
II DEE~ DISH PIZZA THAT HAS CHANGED THE 1I iI EATING HABITS OF THE ND-SMC COMMUNITY I I 
I 
I 
I OPENING SOON! ! ! 
I I 
I I I I 
I The Pan Pizza Parlor 
I OUR I Your best friend RESTAURANT WILL SPECIALIZE IN 
i now and thru " DELICIOUS PIZZA &FIN~ WINES AND BEERS
1 finals is The Pan I 1! just call I The atmosphere will be unlike I i 277-1221 or 277-1222 I any other in the area. I II for II 
i fREE DELIVERY This summer and next i 

I fall we will be having 1
! Try our friendly, quick ~ fabulous offers. I 
I k i I
1 pic -up service. i 1 
I = I
I 
) 

) iI 107 DIXIEWAY NORTH ...... ~c;:~oss FROM RANDALL'S INN I J L-----~~..-._...;_;..;_.~;..~;...;..;.;.~...:.;.;.~...;.·.~._ __:.;.;..~~~~.;;_---------------------~----1
• • .' ,I ,o • ~ .I .,.. o o j & 0 t I ~ t I t o • 11;.,._. ,•._-..,. J" ~­
' .· _._· ,.. ' ..-... -.....·~ ·~ ... . . . 
.. 4 '·''' ',-, ......, .... _.......... ...
J 
} 

Wednesday, April J0,197s the observer 2 1 
------~--~--------------~~ 
Irish drop pair to Spartans 

by Rich Odioso 
Don Wolfe turned in his third straight strong pitching per­formance, holding Big Ten leading Michigan State hitless into the sixth inning, but it wasn't enough as the Spartans rallied to down the Irish 2-1 with a pair of runs in the final inning. MSU had an easy time winning the opener 9-0. 
Wolfe, who pitched a no-hitter his first time out against Butler, held State without a hit until two were out in the sixth, running his three-game hitless string to 15 and one-third innings. Joe Palamara then hit a looping fly ball that fell less than a foot fair in right field for a cheap single. Terry Hop then got the Spartans second hit with a hit-and-run dribbler through the right side of the infield. Wolfe got out of this jam when .400 hitting Mike Fricke flied to right. 
The Irish broke the scoreless tie in their half of the sixth, scoring their only run of the doubleheader. Jim Smith legged out an infield hit to deep short and stole second. Mark Schmitz then punched a single into right and Smith scored to make it 1-0. 
The Spartans roared back to win it in the top of the seventh as Rick Seid bounced a single up the 
Extra Points 
<l'ontinut'<l fnnn pagt> 2-t) l'asualties as they had last. year. They just do not have the depth of last vear's team. · Ever since thefresjman have been allowed to play varsity football. Notre Dame has come up with a few freshmn to fill voids in key positions. 
_'l-
For the Irish to be successful this has to happen again. Coach Devine and his staff have signed 28 out of 30 players to whom they offered scholar­ships. Tht> recruiting process is always an important part of the Notre llamt>'s football success. Th Next year cannot be an exception to that rule. 
The 1975 Notre Dame Football Chedule is one of the toughest that hte Irish have had in many years. The schedule is complicated by the fact that ABC Sports ispushing to change the dates of the Boston College and Pittsburgh gamt>s. The Boston College contest would be moved to Sep­tt>mber 15. two days later than originally planned, and would be aired nationally on that Monday night. This would give the Irish less than five 
*'--­
days to prepare for intra-state rival Purdue. The Pittsburgh battle would lw moved up 12 days to Thanksgiving Day, November 27. But Notre !lamP PPLAYS Miami o Saturday night. November22, thus giving the Irish little time to prepare for the Panthers. Southern Cal, Georgia Tech. l\lichigan Stale and North Carolina all will be tough foes for Notre Dame rwxt season. 
At this point in time. Notre Damt>'s football program is burdened with a lot uncertainties. Anything can happen between now and the opener at Boston College. There is no doubt taht the nucleus of a good football team is present here. Coach Devine and his staff will hve to work hard to holster the postilions where te Irish are weak . If the Irish continue to
,_ 
~how the weaknesses that have veen haunting them a! spring, then next fall ('oasch DPvine and the Notre Dame football aans could be in for many middle and was sacrificed to second. Randy Pruitt doubled to tie the game and AI Weston followed with a single to left scoring Pruitt with the winning run. Stan Bobowski started the Irish seventh with an opposite field hit but George Mahan finished off his third win of the Spartan season. retiring the next three hitters. 
Pruitt and Weston were also the batting stars of the opening game win, teaming for four extra base hits good for five rbi"s The Irish started the Spartans off on the right note in the top of the first, making two errors to help account for three unearned MSU runs. Tainted single runs in the second and third made it 5-0 when the Spartan bats lashed out four extra base hits in the fifth. The two doubles and two triples off loser Bob Stratta accounted for four runs and completed the MSU scoring. 
Meanwhile the Irish were being held in check by righthander Duane Bickel, who scattered four hits in upping his record to 5-l. Bickel got stronger as the game went on, fanning the last three batters he faced to run his total to ten. Only three ND runners made it as far as second including Smith who doubled with two out in the first. 
The Irish are now 14-11 with si.x games remaining. Saturday they go to Ferris State for a doubleheader, then return home for 1 p.m. twin bills with Xavier on Sunday and Detroit on Monday. 
IIUSII ITEMS -Seven seniors will be seeing their last Irish action this week. They are infielders Smith and Pat Coleman, catchl'rs Tony Iarocci and Dave Doemel and outfielder Mike O'Neil . . . Spartan back-up quarterback Tyron Willingham played left-field in the opener and was 1-for-3 ... Jim Smith recovered from two t>rrors in the first game to play a fine game in the field in the nightcap. His leaping stab of Pruitt's line drive in the fifth preserved Wolfe's hitless string ... MSU Coach Danny LetweiJler did not bring along his $1200 battery­
. operated radar gun which clocks pitchers just as the State Polic clock speeders · · · Bob Stratta saw his first action in the field in the second gamt-. playing third ... fhe 
Spartans are now 19-11 with a 5-0 Big Tt-n Mark. 

1637 Lincoln Way West-phone 232-6622 
Uhe WinOjammer 
Hair Care Center for the Sexes 
CONGRATULATIONS! ANOTHER YEAR IS ALMOST OVER. THE PROFESSIONAL STYLISTS AT THE WINDJAMMER WILL BE GLAD TO HELP YOU LOOK YOUR BEST FOR GRADUATION OR SUMMER WORK. WHY NOT CAll TODAY FOR JUST THE LOOK YOU WANT. All SERVICES BY APPOINTMENT SO THERE'S NEVER ANY WAITING 


a long Saturday afternoon. 
ENROLL NOW FOR SEPTEMBER LEWIS UNIVERSITY'S COLLEGE OF LAW 
• 
Applicants are individually reviewed with a 4-week Pre-Law 500 learning/test LSAT alternatives. 

• 
Inter-disciplinary curriculum-challengtng "track" programs-begin the first year_ 

• 
The Lewis approach to legal education guides you to your future as a competent, humanistic attorney_ 

• 
Our 128-acre suburban campus offers a unique learning environment, close-by a major metropolitan area_ 


INTERVIEWS AVAILABLE MAY 1 AT S.M.U. WITH DEAN A. CHURCH. CONTACT PROF. ANN THOMAS. 
Lewis University College of Law 
Rt. 53& 

Roosevelt Rd. Glen Ellyn, Ill. 60137 (312) 858-7200 
CALL THEATRE FOR TIMES! 
FLIX 1 
~,IIARRY tTONIO_~ 
FLIX 2 

Twin Theatres/tOO Center 
,..-------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~-~-~--~-~-~~~~~= 
NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 
NOW RENTING FOR '75-'76 SCHOOL YEAR 

TIJESE AI'AHTJ\11-::\TS AHE LOCATED .JUST SOUTH OF TilE <"AI\JI'l'S 01\ :\OTHE I>AI\IE A\'EM'E. EACH APAHTI\11'::\T IS Ili·:SI<i :\Ell F< ll\ L!!lJ!.<lH FI\"1-: STllllEl\TS AND IS ('01\1 PI.ETEI.Y 

\lOJ>EH:\ 1!\ 1-:\'EHY I>ETAIL 
\1 MONTH LEASE AVAILABLE ­e t·.s~·<; NI<:W LEASf: APPROVED BY I>IH OF <WF-CAI\lPlJS HOUSING. 
ONI<: BUILDING BEING RESERVED e FOR GHAI>lJATE STUDENTS-9 1\10. OH 12 1\10. LEASE. 
S ll l\1 1\I E H A P A H T M E N T S 
• AVAILABLE NOW. 
APARTMENT LAYOUT 
• 

SOME OUTSTANDING FEATURES 
Pr•vate Patios and Balconies A•r Conditioning Kitchen w•th Rang •, Relngerator and Garbage D•sposals 
Cook.ng Utensils. D>shes. Silverware, Glasses. etc. Wall to Wall Carpeting Party Bar Soundproof and F ireproot Constructio Prew.red tor Cable TV and Telephone lighted Paved Parking Area Completely Furnished (X Long Beds) Trunk Storage 
Over 1.000 sq. II apartment Excellent Security 
FOR RENTAL INFORMATION CALL·272·7656 or 234-6647· ·
.-.. 


the observer Wednesday, April 3~_1!~ 
•
Irish go'llers third ID tourneg 
an NCAA aL-large invitation to the The coaches from each district
winner Ohio State. Jeff Burda led 
holes with 6-foot birdies on 3 and 6.
h~· Tom Kruczt>k national championship tour­select the five teams that will go to
the way for Notre Dame with a 36­
He then bogt>yt>d '7 and 9 to finish 
nament June 17-21. the tournament. This year
hole total of 152. Right behind
Bt>hind Paul Koprowski's 71 and the front nine with an even par 36. 
According to Coach Noel however, since Ohio State will be
Burda was Paul Koprowski with
Jeff Burda's 73, the Notre Dame On the back side, Koprowski 
O'Sullivan, the Irish are still very hosting the event, they will receive 
155.
golfers finished out the regular wound up with eight pars and one 
much in the running for the bid. "I an automatic bid. In effect 6 teams 
The Irish ran into the same
season with a third place finish in birdie. 
believe that because of our per­from Notre Dame's district will go
problems at Purdue that they did
the Mid-American Invitational Following Koprowski and Burda 
formances at the Kepler (8th place to the NCAAs.
Monday out of 20 teams. for the Irish was Rich Knee 75, at the Indianapolis Intercollegiate, 
of 24 teams) and the Mid-O"Sullivan pointed out that
earlier in the spring. At both
Koprowski's one-under par effort Mike Kistner 78, and Jim 
American, we deserve not just a usually the Big Ten champion and 
tournt>ys..the golfers did well for
was the best in the tournament, Culveyhouse 80. As a team Notre 
look, but a strong consideration for runner up go, along with the Mid­
'\ held at Miami of Ohio, earning him I>amdinished with a 377 total, three the first 27 holes, but ran into 
an NCAA bid. Based on our American conference champion
difficulties on the last nine that
I' his first m!'dalist · title of the strokes behind the invitational 
beating of Ball State twice, and and runner-up, with the other spot
pushed them out of contention for 
season. Closest to the junior was a champion Bowling Green. 
because we have proved that we going to the top independent. This
the championship.
pack of eight golfers, including On Saturday, the Irish competed 
can play with anyone in our year however, with the additional
Burda. at two strokes back. in the Purdue Intercollegiate, With the conclusion of the 
district, I feel that we stand a very bid coming to the district, the Irish 
Koprowski,started the event where theu finished in sixth place regular season, the Irish now can 
good chance of the invitation." rhanct>s are that much better
wt>ll, moving two-under after six with a 776 total, 28 strokes behind only speculate on the possibility of 

WANTED 
Burial plot of area mynah bird. Call gordie bird, 1943. 
Need one housemate tor next year. Call Frank or Mary, 234-6535. 
Ride needed desperately to NYC or Long Island area. Kathy, 4367 . May 13 or after. 
Ride needed to Syracuse­Binghamton area, graduation night. Call 6843. 
One housemate tor two-bedroom house beside N D Apts. Call 289-8083 or 1184. 
Desperately need ride to Detroit, Friday. Call 1132. 
Need ride to Youngstown, Ohio. Can leave any time. Call Tom, 288-3234. 
Need 1 filing cabinet or anything close. Call Bill, 6710. 
Car to North Texas or Dallas-Ft. Worth area to lake personal belongings home. Call Kathy, 1391. 
Need ride to Boston !Framingham) after exams. Call Jim, 8504. 
Riders wanted: leaving May 12 for Bethesda, MD. Returning to NO campus on 16th for graduation. Call late, 283-6309. 
Riders wanted: leaving May 19th iafter graduation> for California. 283-6309. 
Need ride to Dayton. Call 1200. 
Students for light office work and telephone sales. Salary and com­mission. Apply 224 W. Jefferson, corner of Lafayette St., room 313. 
Students tor light delivery. Ex­cellent pay. A.A.A. Advertising. Apply 224 W. Jefferson, corner of Lafayette, room 313. 
Me and my trunk need a ride to Washington, DC, or northern Va., May 8 or 9. Call 4055. 
FOR SALE 
Sherwood S7100-A; 22 RMS-CH, PE (Dual) Table; Base-cover; stanton cart., 2 KLH32 Speakers. $295 total. Mike, 234-6535. 
OLDS Cutlass '67, small engine, good mileage, 8-track tape: $500. New Remington 12-gauge pump magnum : S120. Call 284-4008 or 234· 8679. 
Must sell now 2 speakers, turntable, 80-watt receiver, all Pioneer equipment, 9 mos. old, perfect condition price negotiable. Call Denny, 1052. 
Stereo . Panasonic portable . ex­cellent condition . inexpensive · best offer. Call Mary, 7953. 
2 Lafayette 3-way speakers, $70. Ca II John, 288-7637. 
Green, yellow, orange and white­flowered bedspreads C2l. wardrobe drapes, window curtains. Also 2-tone green shag rugs (3x5, 2x3). Call 7960. 
1972 Pinto, new camshaft. 19,000 miles. Phone 8854." 
NOTICES  
Always the mechanical University  best in gas work now Standard,  sales and at Tom's corner of  

Ironwood and State Rd. 23. 10 per·­cent discount to N D & SMC students on all purchases eKcept gas. 
Found: Old beagle, Tues. night Howard Hall. Call 8183 
Atf.ic antique and yard sale May 2 and 3, 9 a.m. to Sp.m. 721 Napoleon. Modern and Antique furniture and dishes. Many miscellaneous items. Heirlooms and collector items. 
The new Bob Seger album now at BoOgie Records, College Square Mishawaka. 
For women who like jewelry: enhance your collection with a Puka shell or Paper shell necklace from Hawaii. Call Chris, 287-7026. 
CLASSIFIED 
Tickets tor the May 9 Frank Zappa Summer Cottage tor rent! Private and May 17 Lou Reed concerts at location! Less than a stone's throw Morris Civic Auditorium are now on from A&P. laundromat, car wash, sale at Morris Civic Auditorium and Corby's, Library, Nickle's, and Boogie Records. From Sunshine Louie's (it you got a good arm). 4 Promotions. bedrooms, furnished, nice yard, a 
. ------------------mere $150 per month (plus cost of Take the Greyhound from Notre this ad). Call 287-7981 today! Dame to Chicago every Friday at 
4:40. Two buses return Sunday. Call House for rent, 1 mile from campus, 
Tom, 272-1807. ready tor immediate occupancy. 
233-6438. THE CHEAP TRUCK IS BACK !Offering the lowest prices tor Furnished apt, 503 W. Jefferson baggage to Long Island. Our prices duplex, 3 rooms, second floor, gas are: trunks-S6, suitcases-S4, boxes­heat furnished. 289-6307, 234-0596. $3, bicycles $6, golf clubs-$3.50. For information call Leo at 1152. $2 FOR SUMMER RENTAL: large 4­
deposit required. bedroom furnished house near Jeff. Eddy. Big lawn. 2 baths, washer, 
Block party Saturday May 3, 4:00 dryer, utilities. $175. 234-1972. pm 1:00 a.m. at Campus View Apartments. Music by.Talisman and 2 bedroom furnished apt at Campus Fat Chance. All NO & SMC students View tor summer. Rent negotiable. invited. After the Blue-Gold Game, Call· 277-0003. come on over. Just 3 blocks east of 
Cartier Field. Three bedroom house close to NO, 
May 15 to Aug 15. Carpeted and Typing, editing, dissertation paneled living room, complete specialists, IBM, special symbols. kitchen, washer and dryer, all 
linda's Letters, 289-5193. utilities included. S150 per month. Call Mrs. Cooper, 272-3004. STUDENTS: Don't throw away all 
those things that you don't want or 2 rooms, private. $50. Kitchen, rides. refuse to carry home. Charitable 233-1329. Organization wants your discards. Free pick-up. Call272-8333 after 5:30 Student home, furnished, four 
and we will arrange to take those bedrooms, near ND. Available 23rd items off your hands. of May or August. Phone 1-553-9665. 
NY Met. Club baggage truck to L.t.. By owner: 3-bedroom, bi-level, A-1 NYC: call 3007 or 1986 for in­condition. Large finished rec room, formation. central air, fenced backyard. Under S300. 2325 E. Fair Oaks, Niles, Mich. 
Summer storage, dry, clean, safe, 684-0621. reasonable rates, pick up and deliver at dorm. Call Mrs. Cooper, Apt. to rent tor summer. ApproK. 1 272-3004. mile from campus. 2 bedrooms. 288­
5083, 5 pm 7 pm. Accurate, fast typing. 50 cents per page. Close to NO. 232-0746, Mrs. Summer rental: 3 bedroom house, Donoho. furnished, corner of NO Ave and Wayne St. Rent negotiable. Call 288· Management Trainee 2825. To$14,000 
Ready tor a new career? we are Need a place tor summer? Fur­interviewing for a management nished full hvuses or single rooms at training program that will allow you a discount rate. Walk to campus. 
to earn 525,000 or more in 5 years Call 233-2613. 
while representing our top team of financial specialists in Equities, House tor rent tor neKI school year. Insurance, Mortgages and Tax Fully furnished, 2 complete baths, Shelters. Send your resume' to close to campus, 5 bedrooms. $280 
Charles M. Newbanks per mo. 233-2613. 120 W. LaSalle, Suite 906 
South Bend. IN 46601. Summer storage tor dependable service, call us! South Bend Storage. Free pick-up at room and free
St. Louis Club Truck. Leave the delivery to dorm. Boxes, $5, trunks,hassle to us. Our prices are: bikes­footlockers, or bikes, $6. Call 233·$7, trunks-56. tootlockers-$5, suit­
2613.
cases-$4, boxes and other items-Sl per cubic toot. For information and 
CABINS ON LAKE MICHIGANreservations call Pat at 8640 or 8652. 
FOR RENT: only 30 min. from campus. GINTARAS RESORT,
Typing done: $.35 per page, $.05 per 15860 Lake Shore Rd., Union Pier,page extra tor carbon. Call 272-5549 Mich. 616-469-3298.
and ask tor Dan. 
LOST AND FOUND
HOUSE PAINTING: two eK· perienced painters (NO graduates) 
Lost: critical notes in brown binder,will paint interior-exterior. Very 
Call 8179.
reasonable. Call 234-1889 tor free estimate. 
Lost: jacket, navy blue, with words "CYO Camp, Christina, Stall." 7854,Pittsburgh Club Luggage Truck reward.
loading May 12-13. Details posted soon. Info, 6871, 8414. 
Lost: wire-frame glasses in a black leather case. Between Morrissey
All private 3 rooms up for married 
and Sorin. Call 8705.
graduate student. All utilities, near Memorial Hospital. No rent in 
Lost: brown wire-rim glasses,
return for aiding parents to help lilt between D-1 and Cavanaugh. Pleaselightweight son and daughter to and call 1503.
from wheelchairs, etc. No nursing. 232-9128. 
Lost: one pair bronze-rimmed glasses in brown case. Please call
OVERSEAS JOBS: Australia, 
277-1698.
Europe, s. America; Africa. Students, all professions and oc­cupations, S700 to S3000 monthly. PERSONALS EKpenses paid, overtime, sight­seeing. Free information. TRAN­What's happenin' Moe, Joe, Train SWORLD RESEARCH, Dept. F3, Snake, Erving Lefty, Mother F. Box 603, Corte Madera, Calif. 94925. Casino-Royal-like 
Four best bumps on campus: Kathy, Carol, Sue, and Margo. 
FOR RENT Join now-save later. Join NO's first Foo~-Ciothing-Record Co-op.
Now renting Campus View Apart­Startmg Wed., enjoy 50 percent off 
ments. Still some choice 1 and 2 charter membership tees. Call the bedroom apartments available. Call Ombudsman-7638, or Student Govt­272-1441 for information or stop over 7668 tor more details. and see the model apartment at 54585 Irish Way. Karen, 
Still thinking of you, loving you. But Summer sublet !time negotiable). 5 why don't you write to Muffy rooms, furnished. S60 plus care of someday? She loves you, too. cats. 234-4824. Tom 
Furnished: house and apartments Ken Girouard this·
and small house near NO. summer • os your very own only', U2..174. · · · • • • • • • • • • • • • ~r~npl--flt last. 
___________.:.·_·..:'-'::..:.'..:·...·:..·. • \ · -Love,· M.. K; 
ADS 
For all those who know(and even those that don't): Nothing is better tor thee than me... See you in two years or whenever we meet again. 
The WILD Bunch II 
Leary Boy, You're my friend. You say how and I'll say when. Or, as Stevie Wonder would say, "Don't you worry 'bout a thing." 
Real Man. 
To Sue, Janet, and John-· Congratulations! Don't drink too much Irish coffee. 
Art Best: Please return the safety pins. K.B. 
T.K. M.B. 
Orange you sad to see us go. J.J.K.T. 
It's the Oinly Moore Twins Bir­thday. Maria, 1346, Diane, 1349. 
TIME RUNS SHORT: I still have a limited selection of turquoise jewelry. The prices are super . so is the quality. but hurry. 287-0076 after 
7. 
"Then who is the best hump on campus?" P.C. asked. 
"Sugar" Tate, let's get it on. L.C. 
Carol Jean. have a Happy Birthday. See you soon. Richard 
To the Knife Knocker: Quit knocking and open the door to your identity. 
S.M. 
Papa Bear, Dirty Dragon, and Sweaty-Bare: Thanks tor the year and much, much more. You put up with a lot from me. It's been "real." Love you all and gonna miss you lots. Be good (well, try). 
Au revoir a bientot, Baby Bear (Ia Petite Oursel 
"K.K." This is it! I'm nearing the end of my rope. Send comfort soon. 
Mulfy 
Need your stuff shipped to Boston area? Call Milt, 1986,or Bob, 1972, tor mtormation. 
Mary Blue, 
Will I see you in September? Boone 
Fish, Have a terrific 21st birthday on May 9, Let's celebrate together. 
I love you, Button. 
"K.K." If the South is rising disregard other message. 
To the Pontiff of Rome: Thursday night is victory night. All artists laugh! 
Feldhaus AntiChristals 
Joe Trita: Best wishes for a long hot summer. 
Au revoir, Observer! Thanks tor everything. Love you one and all and will miss you next year. A bientot, Katie 
To Cammy, Thanks for everything that a Corby girl can give to some desperadoes. 
From the Boys at the View: Mark, George, Paul. and Mike. 
Individual interested in working on the food-co-op call Student Govt, 7668. before Tuesday, April 29. 
To Edward Davis, Naked Hawaiian: Let's shower together again. Sue. 
Els: This year's been great! Thinking of you always. Can you feel it? 
Love, John, Jim, Ted, Paul, and Uncle Jerry 
Sam, 
See you soon. Rainbow 
Today is not your birthday, but May 7th is · so your birthday cookie is waiting. 
Love, Kath 
This ispersonal. My favorite dirtball bike tor sale. Antiquated but func­tional. Call Steve at 287-7360. 
Thought tor the DAY: Does a cookie a Day keep the doctor away? Hope not. 
Love, Hedge 
DAY in ... Day out ...How was it Murph (Hedge)? 
T & T are dynamite, But are they explosive? From one who knows . Murph, one who wishes she did. MD, and on~ who's not telling. 
Congratulations to the Divine Faye Malone. 
Jim, Like graham crackers? How about a boK? 
Diane 
Tony, Kumonjwanaleia. Maria 
To Terry, Ken, Gregg, Dad, Chip Danny Bob, Bill, Pat, John, Freddy, Tom, AI, Jim, Martha, Maureen, Val. Katy, Marty, Maggie, Julie, Mary and the rest of the staff: love you all. Ariverderci, Maureen. 
Maureen: Couldn't you just have told them in person? 
Afternoon Typist (formerly Benevolent Afternoon Typist> 
M. Douglas Me. C. Have prepared accomodations for you for th~ second week of August in zip code zone. 43204. Am looking forward to your arrival. Trust..rou'll be there. ~ 
C. D. Salads 
Dear Kellen, It's going to be a long lonely sum­mer. Try to stay out of the blinding sun. If Bob wonders why You're chasing rabbits, tell him to go ask Alice. 
The Future Odd Quadians 
To the CAN-CAN Gl RLS of 249 LeMans: Dear Skeels and Rags: They way you walk and talk really really sets them off--But when things really get HOT you can always use the FIRE ESCAPE! 
See you next year. 
Dear Kathy and "Old Lady 0," To the Quei!n of the Kleptos: Don't lose your touch over the summer. See you both next year, al long as your bathroom buckets are still here. 
From the CANstruction Crew of 222 
To the Best and the Brightest: We've lost one battle but we'll win the war . · they can't stop your sincerity, honesty, humor, good looks--and all your other humble skills. Have a few B's on us this summer and we'll start fresh next year. 
The Irish Malia 
P. Chou: 
Bonne Sante, Bonnes Vacances, Tout Mon Amour. 
G. Chou 
Dear Mom, Tha~ks tor helping us out, and puttong up with us the entire year We'll keep the coffee table neat to~ you this summer. Keep making us 
tat · we love it . and you. All of us 
To all OBSERVER reporter:s: Thanks to everyone for tile tremendous job youv'e done in the past weeks. Have a good summer and see ya neKt year. 
Ken 
Betho: get your head together. Good luck! 
Snip, The past three years have been the best of my life! Thanks tor being here. Love you very much. Snot 
Ginny, Better luck neKt year. 1 hope your'e not as busy. Love, Chet 
I don't believe how many ads there were today. B.A.T. 

.. 
-

m a 
Greg Collins --Wayne Bullock 





Fighting Irish Class Of 1975 
.. 
• I 
-
~~­
'/:;.· 
1':' 
·L"' ... 

Les Larson ~f" nn"' ,
Mark Schmitz 
.:..-....,· 
'if 


J -'·••.• , 
Jeff Burda ....... 



2 4 the observer Wednesday, April 30,1975 
Irish aiming towards a~nual .Blue-G~Id 
by B11l Brmk 
Sports Editor 
Aftt>r taking a rest Monday afternoon, t~e Irish .football squad r~sumed 
drills yt>stt>rday on Cartier Fit>ld. They w1ll practice the rest of th1s week 
in preparation for Saturday's Blue-Gold game. , . 
..You nt>ver get everything done that you want to get done, sa1d head 
coach Dan Dt>vine of his initial coaching stint here at Notre Dame. "B~t 
undt>r tht> circumstances I think the squad worked hard and d1d the1r 
best. .. 
For I >t•vine it was an opening month of ups and downs. If he was new as 
a t·oach. ht> had a lot of company in the great number of new players.he 
\\:1s dt>aling with. graduation having robbed 9 offensive and S def.ensl.ve 
startt>rs In addition, the squad was further depleted by cr1pphng m­
jurit>s. Throw in a new system wh1ch took time for the players to get used 
·to and vou st>em to have the cards stacked against you. 
Hut at Notre Dame you always have one thing going for ~ou, and that's 
sh('Pr talE>nt. In the twenty practice sessions allowed durmg the sprmg, 
Jlt•vint> and his staff have tried to get a good look at all the talent, evaluate 
it. and devt>lop it. Drills have been held 3 or 4 times a week, and four 
scrimmagE's have been run. 
c>fft>nsivt>ly. the staff's major concern is finding a quarterback. Fra~k 
Allocco startt>d · the spring in the number 1 spot, but sepa~ated ~1s 
shouldt>r in the second scrimmage and sat out the rest of the dnlls. R1ck 
Slagt>r took over the starting QB position, and despite bruised ribs suf­
fE>rt>d in last Saturday's scrimmage, seems to still have a hold on the spot. 
Ikhind him are Joe Montana, Gary Forystek, and a host of other young 
prospPc!s, all with as good a chance as anyone. . . . 
Tht> rushing gamp is perhaps the most prom1smg area, w1th s~rong 
startt>rs and real depth at the position. Fullback Tom Parise m1ssed 
practices with a torn hamstring, but .A.rt Best, Mark McLane, ~uss 
Kornman. Steve Schmitz, and Steve Orsm1 have all had excellent sprmgs. 
ThP lint> has suffered some costly injuries, losing center Vince Klees, 
guard Elton Moore. and slowing dow~ tac~le Steye Quehl. Ken Andler, 
Ernit> Hught>s, and Mike Carney have filled m adm1rably. 
BiII 8rin k8~=~=~=========~=~=~=======~=================================================================;=;=;===;=====;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;= The Irish Eye =;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;;;;;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;;;=;===~=~====: The year in review 
ThPre were no national championships, a few surprises and a lot of 
disappointments, but overall it was another outstanding year for athletics 
at Notre Dame. 
!<'or the football team, it was themost tragic tale of all. Before last summt>r it consisted of a national championship squad that could only get better with age. But freak injuries and suspensions duri~g th~ s~mf!ler opened some unexpected holes in the lineup. and the seemmgly mvmc1ble Irish looked more human. 
Ill"' the third game of the season Purdue proved that they were, streaking to a 24-01 lead and handing ND a shockin~ 31-2~ defeat. The Irish proceeded shakily from there and suffered the1r ultimate. traged.Y whP' liSC's second-half onslaught humiliated them 55-24, endmg th.elr 'hn1.. for repealing as national champs. It was a ~.e~se, fr~stratmg ~,··a: n and it forced the person they called "The Man m~o re~1rement. \ ''· .. 11 st>asons. 94 career wins and two national champwnsh1ps, head ,..•.. , \ra Parseghian announced that he would retire after the Orange ·JI·. ,me on New Year·~ night. The Irish were scheduled for a rematch Jmber-one Alabama, and only a win could salvage for Ara what 
had ,•n an t>motionally-upsetting season. • 
Hut .1·hen faced with dramatics, Notre Dame is never one to get stage 
fnght. Tom Clements Jed a pre~ise, con~erv~tive attack and th~defense 
playt>d brilliantly against the Cnmson T1~e Wishbone, and the Insh had a 
13-11 victory to send Ara out on. Dan Deyme, who stepped down from the 
Gret>n Bay Packers, would replace h1m. . · 
Basketball was the surprise, and a pleasant one. D1gger Phelps had 
lost All-Americans John Shumate and Gary Brokaw, and the cagers were 
given little chance to repeat last year's he!oics. . 
But Phelps took his young ballclub and d1d ~he unexpected. Playmg the 
toughest schedule in college bait. he engmeered ano~her upset over 
UCLA at the ACC with an 84-78 victory. From there the Ir1sh won 11 out of 
their last 13 games and moved the NCAA into tournament. 
A victory over Kansas in the first round put the Irish as far this year as they had been the previous one, and Digger Phelps m~de oelievers of everyone. ND was ousted by a tough Mar~land .team ~n the nex~ g~me and dropped the consolation game toCmcmnah. Th1s put the1r fl.nal record at 19-10. The Irish's big name, sophomore forward Adrtan Dantley finished second in the nation in scoring with a 30.4 average. 
The hockey team, despite some outstanding indiyidual. talent had a disappointing season, finishing with a 13-22-2 record, mcludmg two losses to Michigan Tech in the WCHA playoffs. . 
The line of Brian Walsh , Alex Pirus and Clarck Ham1lton was very potent and Jack Brownschilde, Les Larson and Paul Clarke were solid defenders. but the Irish did not have the depth to challenge the stronger l'OnfE>rmce opponents. . 
Ironically. it was the fencing team that came the closest to capturmg a national championship. Coach Mike DiCicco's team had an exellent 20-2 season. including an 18 meet winning streak, and placed third in the !';CAA rournament in Fullerton, California. 
Tlw swimming team produced one ot the campus' finest athletes in .Jim Kant'. and streaked to a 10-0 record, finishing 11-1 overall. Kane swept all three frt'estyle events in the Motor City Invitational and coach Dennis Stark ·s tankmen finished second. The wrestling team had a 14-11 record bui managed to send one competitor, fre~hman Pat McKillen to t~e NC'AA finals.The track team finished 4-2 m winter and has turned m soml' impressive performances in the spring relay competition. 
The spring sports teams are impressive also, with the baseball team, golf team and tennis team all in the running for NCAA bids. Coac~ Ja~e Kline's baseball squad currently has a 14-11 record, and fme m­dividual performers in BobStratta ,Jim Smith and Mark Schraitz. Noel 
o'Sullivan's golfers have also done well, especially with their eighth place finish in the Kepler Invitational last week. The team and captam Jeff Burda. are awaiting an NCAA bid. For Tennis coach Tom Fallon it has been asatisfyingseason, sweeping the spring trip matches and moving to a current 15-3 record. Randy Stehlik, John Carrico and Chris Kane lead the netmen. 
Club sports have become increasingly popular over .t~e years, with more people taking an interesst in LaCrosse, rugby, sallmg, crew, and soccer. And added dimension to Notre Dame sports has been the rise of women's teams to a more respected status. The Women's Athletic A~BiatiQD formed to help shape the development of women's sports here. is woi·king hard to get the ND women's club sports to varsity status, and although they were turned down, will continue to work in that area. 
Overall, the vear in sports was as it always been at Noter DAme; up, down. but always first class. 
, . , . . . . . . . 
· · .. 
.<C 
... 
.. . ,,,;-.z;:~~<l;'··.~''itiii::lilti!U· 
This week's drills and Saturday's Blue-Gold game mark the end of spring practice and Dan Devine's 
first stint as new head coach. 
The receiving corps is sound and healthy. Ted Burgmeier, after a brief try at quarterback, occupies the number 1 wide receiver spot, with Kevin Doherty and Dan Kelleher right behind. Ken MacAfee is excellent at tight end, as is his back-up Doug Buth. 
Defensively, the Irish have a little more experience. Co-captain Jim Stock practiced two weeks before injuring his wrist ligaments, and he combined with reconverted tackle Steve Niehaus to make for a devastating left side line. Jeff Weston and Tony Zappola have· been solid on the right. The linebacking corps is inexperienced and Marvin Russell missed the spring drills with torn knee ligaments. Tom Eastman retained his middle linebacker (and often middle guard) spot, and Doug Bt>cker, Pete Johnson, and Tony Novakov have been working at the outside spots. The starting defensive backfield is the one area that has remained intact all spring. Randy Harrison is at free safety, along with John Dubenetzky, and Tom Lopienski and Randy Payne at the cor­ners. Mike Banks has performed well at this position for the second team and Bob Zanot and Tim Simon, though they missed drills because of injuries, will also be competing for a secondary spot. 
Devine has brought in four new coaches to help him with the job of training these young players. Hank Kuhlman has taken over as of­fensive backs coach, Merv Johnson is the new offensive coordinator, former-pro John Roland coaches the wide receivers, and Ed Chlebek handles the specialty teams. They join veteran assistant coaches Joe Yonto, defensive line coach, George Kelly, linebacker coach, Paul Shoults, secondary coach, Brian Boulac, offensive line coach, and Greg Blache, junior varsity coach. 
Devine's response to his return to college coaching at Notre Dame is one of satisfaction, but his 
, 
team that I don't have time to dwell on the emotional aspects," ,jhe says.' "But it's been a smoother 
I
transition <from the pros back to college) than I thought. This summer we'll make an evaluation of the squad as a result of the spring practices in preparation for the fall." 
Right now there's a lot of work to be done, but a lot of talent to work with. 
The Blue-Gold game is scheduled for Saturday at 1:30 in the stadium. Students will be admitted free. and one adult ticket C$2.50) will gain free admission for two accompanying children. All proceeds from the game go to the academic scholarship fund of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley. 
feelings are not over-emotional. "I'm so involved in coaching the 
Iowa's Dick Kuchen named new assistant basketball coach at NO 
Dick Kuchen, assistant basketball coach at the University of Iowa for five years, has ac­cepted a similar position under Notre Dame coach Richard "Digger" Phelps. 
Kuchen, who replaces new hE>ad Stanford coach Dick DiBiaso, joined the Iowa staff in 1970 as a freshman coach under Dick 
Schultz  and  became  his  top  
assistant  for  the  1971  season.  
Kuchen  was  retained  by  Lute  

~lso.n when he took over the head JOb m ~974. "I enJoyed my stay. at ~owa and I 
hope I made a contnbubon," saysKuchen. "But I look forward to this new experience immensely .. I feel it will give me an opportumty to grow as a coach. The Notre Dame basketball program is on~ of the most respected in the nation and it's an honor to be able to join this staff." 
Kuchen went to Iowa from Washington <Mo.) University where he was assistant basketball coach. Before entering the coaching profession he worked in !>ales·promotion for the National Lead Co. He was the head coach at Art Institute Junior College in Pittsburgh, Pa., for the 1968-9 season. His team compiled a 20-2 record and placed second in the National Little College tour­nament. 
Like Phelps, Kuchen is a graduate of Rider <N.J.~ Col~ege: He scored over 1,000 pomts m h1s four-year (1962-66) career and set a school rebounding record. !le was Tri-State all-league selectiOn his last two seasons. He was drafted by the St. ~uis.Hawks and played amateur ball m Western Europe for the Gulf Oil Cor­poration in 1966. 
Kuchen, who will be 31 June 22, received his bachelor's degree from ~ider .in 1966 in business administratiOn and has done graduate work at the University of 
Pittsburgh and Monmouth <N-.J.) "Ht> has gained a fine reputation as College. He is a bachelor. a basketball coach at a young age "We're pleased to be able to add and I know he'll work into our 
Dick to our st<>ff." says Phelps. program very well." 

Extra Points 
The long, hard road 
The 1975 Notre Dame Spring Football Season can hardly be termed a rousing success. The spring practices have revealed glaring weaknesses in many key starting positions. The deficiencies,if not corrected, could lead the Irish ot their worst season since 1963. 
New Coach Devine's major problem will be to find a quarterback. He will have 11 men to choose from. There is no doubt that any one quar­terback on the squad can start here at Notre Dame. Devine must search to find the right man that can run the offense consistently. So far, there has not been a quarterback that has shown that consistency. 
This makes the fall workouts crucial and the battle for the starting berth will be highly competitive. Dt>vine must find a concrete starter. He cannot afford to shufflequarterbacks in and out-of every game.Ara tried that in 1965 and 1971. It hurt the offense terribly in those years. Alabama • might have been National Champions last year if they had a solid man in the quarterback spot. If the Irish are to challenge for supremacy in the collegiate football world, then Dt>vine must have a solid performer at quarterack slot. 
One of the keys to Notre Dame's football success next fall will be how W<'ll Ross Browner, Willie Fry AI Hunter and Luther Bradley perform in fall practice. As of yet, the University has not confirmed that these four suspended players will be back at Notre Dame. But it is almost certain that they will b1: readmitted. If they can return to play as well as they did in 1973, then the Irish will be helped greatly. Browner and Fry could make the defensive line one of Notre Dame's best ever. Bradley could add the speed and toughness needed to solidify the defensive backfield. Hunter's amazing speed will be an added plus to the offensive backfield. 
The offensive backs cannot go far if they do not have the blockers to open up the needed holes. The offensive line lost three of its fourstarters through graduation, with guard AI Wujciak being the only returnee. Due to many injuries this spring, the line has been changed around a lot. Once again the fall practices will tell a lot about who is going to challenge for those positions. 
The Irish have lost many players due to injuries this spring. But all the walking wounded should be healed by August. But all the walking wounded should be healed by August. The only question mark is how well Frank Allocco's shoulder heals. Yet it is important that Notre Dame remains healthy next season. The Irish cannot afford as many crippling 
<conlinul'd on pagl' 21 l 






