On The Inside 
Blood drive 
••. page 2 IRA ends truce 
..• page 4 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. iX, No. 59 Friday, January 17, 1975 
6 items amended anti passed 
Facuity Senate holds first '75 meeting 
by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter 
At the first meeting of the new year last evening, the Faculty Senate of the University of Notre Dame considered a number of proposals for inclusion in a possible faculty referendum on University govern­ment. ' 
The proposals are included in a draft of a proposed referendum drawn up by the Senate's executive committee. The executive committee acted at the request of the full senate after reports were submitted by the Faculty Senate's Ad Hoc Subcommittees: , 
Six items were amended and passed at last mght s meeting. The first item was the Faculty Senate's statement on faculty salaries. The second item raised the question, "Is Fr. Hesburgh's $600 cost of living supplement sufficient response to faculty requests for salary increases?" 
Item three proposed the establishment of ~ Faculty 
Senate Budget Review Committee. These first three 
items had been passed at previous meetings, but were 
worded in final form by last night's vote. 
The fourth item passed requested figures from the 
administration on faculty salaries broken down by 
college, rank, and quartile~ <th~ average .salarr of 
each of four income groups m a gJVen rank m a given 
college). 
Fifth , the Faculty Senate proposed to conduct a 
faculty evaluation of administrators who serve or have 
jurisdiction over the entire univers.ity. The reesult!;i of 
these evaluations would be submitted to the Review 
Committee appointed by the Academic Council !n 
accordance with the five-year review policy outlined m 
the Academic Manual. 
The sixth item voices Faculty Senate opposition to 
the propo5ed Faculty Service Report. In essence, this 
report would provide that each !~cult,Y me~ber 
critique himself in addition to the cntlques submitted by bt.i students and other faculty members. The Senate termed the proposed measure "unnecessary." 

The seventy item dealing with the American Association of University Professors' Statement on College Government was deferred until the next meeting to give Faculty Senate members an op­portunity to read through the statement. 
A consensus of opinion was reached on an eightth item, but the measure was referred back to committee for rewording and emphasis. Generally, the items urge the Committees on Appointments and Promotions to follow meticulously the procedures outlined inthe Academic Manual. 
The Faculty Senate, which usually meets once a 
month, will be meeting weekly to consider further 
proposals for a possible referendum. The question of 
whether or not the proposals will actually take that 
form has not yet been taken up by the Senate, but 
Chairman James Cushing stated that "they will 
rrobably be in the form of a referendum." 
· If the Faculty Senate decides on a refer.endlJ!D, Cushing hopes to have it ready for the full university faculty by the middle or end of Feb~uary. . . 
Other business covered at last mghts meetmg m­cuded the chairman's report, in which Cushing outlined University Provost James Burtchaell's report to the Academic Council. 
According to Cushing, Burtchaell announced. as a goal of the university the eventual ~ransformat10n of all professorships into endowed c~airs.. The p~ovost also addressed himself to the umvers1ty s pohcy of actively recruiting Catholic candidates for faculty positions. 
Cushing stated that the Faculty Senate would be dealing with this "Catholics Only" policy in a later section of the executive committee's rough draft. 
The Senate will also consider the issue of collective 
bargaining for faculty members. 

THE FACULTY Senate met last night in first '75 session, amending and passing six items (Photo by Paul Joyce). 
Concerning maiors 
AL college offers new options 
by Paul Young Starr Reporter 

The College of Arts and Letters will institute two new options to the traditional university major system. 
The options were approved at ~e 

December meeting of the Academic Council. The first option would allow students to begin their major in the 
sophomore year and finish as a junior. 
. b f f

The semor year would then e ~ee or evalutation of the student's own maJor and 
the study of interdisctplinary courses related to the major. The second option would provide an 
alternative to a major by substitutingcombinations of present majors. This program of Collegiate Sequences would not only offer the student a more liberal background, but could also serve those 
whose interests lie in a certain field such as public affairs <possibly a government, history, economics combination). 
To be implemented this fa 11 

The first option. called the 1-2-1 system, :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;.;. and Letters, sugge~ted these options allow 
. . 
will be implemented next fall for p1 esent freshman who opt for it, stated Arts and Letters Dean Frederick Crosson. The Collegiate Sequence may not be effec-tive that quickly as major combinations must 
be suggested and proven valuable as well as workable to the involved departments and the College and Academic councils, Crosson said. 
Crosson stressed the new options as purely voluntary and assumed that most 
t d t uld t' · th 
s u en s wo con mue m e con­
ventional major structure. Robert Waddick assistant dean of Arts the departments a stronger sense of their relation to the college. "The departments are not autonomous entities but divisions of the college of Art and Letters, part of a common enterprise," Crosson said. 
Waddick suggested many combinations as viable collegiate sequences of value to students. A public health administrator might find a good background in the correlation of science and governemnt, he explained. An environmental sequence might include economics, sociology and science. He also foresaw possible Music­Art and Theatre-American Studies combinations. 
Pre-law students 
Waddick believes that those seeking a eareer in law should not choose such a program. Pre-law students should stick to the established major pattern as law schools tend to recommend a con­centration in a specific area with a variety of other liberal arts courses as electives. 
The high school teaching career would also be hampered by a collegiate sequence background as accreditation requirements rule out such a broad area of study, he stated. 
Dean Crosson did not see any problems 
for those in law pursuing the collegiate 
sequence. "If you graduate from a good 
school, most law schools will assume yhou 
received a coherent education, " he said. 
"Virtually none of the majors in the 
liberal arts college have immediate 
utilitarian value as we are not preparing 
for a particular profession but general 
understanding and knowledge," he con­
tinued. 
Dean Waddick noted, "The college 
shouldn't stand still but strive to offer 
innovative ideas for we are supposed to be 
a liberal arts college," he said. "We are 
not bound by the licensing of, for example, 
the engineering, chemistry and accounting 
majors and should therefore offer more 
opportunity," he concluded. 


interested students "to do their thing" and proposed the Collegiate Sequence as "good for those students undecided on which way to go" as opposed to the student fixed on a certain career through a definite major. He said that admissions to the program "might have to be limited at first until the collegiate sequences could be built up. We must see what student reaction will be first." 
Crosson, who originally championed both options, adopted a wait and see ap­proach to student enthusiasm over the 1-2­1system: "We have no idea of how many students will be motivated by this op­tion ... but if numbers are too large we will limit the program," he said. 
The 1-2-1 system, Crosson indicated, emerged from an evaluation of the un­dergraduate program financed by a federal agency grant of a humanities endowment three years ago. A realization that many students begin their major unofficially during their sophomore year by taking major courses seemed to lend feasability to such a program, Crosson stated. 
"The two options will challenge the present department majors he offered by "providing alternative majors to what we have now, thus adding competition, and also challenging the departments to establish interdisciplinary programs," Crosson said. 
College unity 
The The Collegiate Sequence will give 
TYPICAL EARLY-SEMESTER hassles at the bookstore are displayed in this crowd and waiting line (Photo by Paul Joyce). 

the observer Friday, January 17, 1975 



Blood drive starts Tuesday
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -The National Transportation Safety Board reporred Thursday that 467 persons wer killed in airline accidents last year--the highest total since 1~-and said the fatal accident rate increased for the third straight year. 
CLEVELAND, Ohio <UPI)-John H. Burt, bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Ohio, Thursday ordered the convening of an ec­clesiastical court to try the Rev. L. Peter Beebe on charges of breaking canon law by allowing two women priests to celebrate communion in his church. 
SAIGON <UPI> -South Vietnamese warplanes Thursday knocked out half of a North Vietnamese convoy of 150 trucks and armored vehicles in a drive to block a threatening Communist buildup in the Ct•ntral Highlands, field officers said. 
WASHINGTON <UPI> --A union official said Thursday the nation's 200,000 mail carriers will strike, even though it is illegal, if the Postal Service adopts a new computerized method of realigning delivery routes 
BUDAPEST <UP!>-A Malev Hungarian Airlines jetliner exploded into small pieces while landing at Budapest airport Wednesday killing all nine crew members, the Hungarian News Agency MTI said Thursday. It said the plane carried no passengers. 

an campus taday 
FRIDAY 

1-5 p.m.---student union book exchange, 2nd floor Iafortune 8 and 10:00 p.m.---film, "glgl" starring maurice chevalier, leslie caron and louis jourdxan, eng. aud, $1. 
SATURDAY 

2-4 p.m.---student union book exchange, 2nd floor Iafortune 8 and 10 p.m.---film "pretty maids all In a row," starring rock hudson, angle dickinson and teliy savalas, eng. aud., $1. 
SUNDAY 

2-5 p.m.---student union book exchange, 2nd floor Iafortune. 8 and 10 p.m.---film, "pretty maids all In a row", starring rock hudson, angle dickinson, telly savalas, engineering aud., $1. 
Hi gher cutoff dec reases number on Dean's list 
An increase in the Dean's List cutoff point from a GPA of 3.25 to 
3.4 has resulted in a substantial loss among qualifying students in all four colleges, according to University Registrar Richard Sullivan. 
Sullivan yesterday reported that the average GPA also declined the past fall semester. Until the spring semester of '74, the cut-off point for the Dean's List was 3.25. The Academic Council passed the resolution to raise the GPA to 3.4 because it felt that grades were easily obtained. The increase inflicted a 7 per cent average loss among Dean's Lists students. 
For the spring semester of 1974, 2,457 students made the Deans' Lists in the four Colleges while for the 1974 Fall Semester only 1,894 students made the Lists. The spring semester GPA was 2.955 total for the four colleges. This fall semester marked a decline with the average GPA being 2.921 in the four colleges. 
Academic Council student representative Susan Hicks, ex­
************************************ 
* ~ *
* ;'"'t,t~ * 
: r~\ :
* * 

: * ** 
* ~ 
* *
* *
* *
* *
* * 
* * 
* *
* * 
* *
* *
* * 
: THE MARSHALL TUCKER BAND : 
: WILL PERFORM A CONCERT AT THE : 
: MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM THIS !:
* SUNDAY NIGHT AT 7:30. * *~TICKETS WILL BE AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR .!* 
r ....................._......,..............._...........: 
plained that the council felt the 
Dean's  List  was  becoming  
meaningless.  
"Having  a  low GPA  allows  

more students to make the Dean's List and there isn't any distinc­tion," Hicks said. 
Hicks, a sophomore engineering student, added the Council also felt that graduating with honors was less honorable because the low GPA allowed more students to graduate with honors. 
James Ambrose, student Government academic com­missioner, felt the raise by the council was due to grade inflation in the college of Arts and Letters. 
"The Colleges of Arts & Letters and Science made up the highest percentage of students making the Deans' Lists, which is why the College of Arts & Letters proposed to raise the GPA to 3.4" 
"I am opposed to the higher GPA because the Colleges of Engineering and Business are hard to keep a 3.25 average, much less a 3.4. In these colleges, a 3.25 is a very respectable GPA and deserves commendation," Am­brose I'Vlid. 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 

The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Blood Drive Program gets un­derway this semester as Lyons Hall residents donate blood to the Central Blood Bank in downtown South Bend on January 21. 
Notre Dame's Holy Cross Hall is scheduled to donate blood two days later, while Grace and Fisher Halls are assigned the following Tuesday and Thursday, espec­tively. 
This system, whereby the blood drive is conducted on a rotating hall basis through out the semester, was first put into effect last semester. It replacees the former campus-wide blood drives which were held once every semester. 
Under the new system, each hall has been assigned one Tuesday or Thursday during the semester in which it has been asked to send 20­25 student donors to the blood bank. 
Transportation is provided to and from the blood bank. Cars leave the Circle on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 9 a.m., 10:30 a.m., 12 noon, and 1:30 and 3:00 in the af­ternoon. 
The campus blood council is joined to the larger and recently­created St. Joseph County blood program. Since the county program is still too young to afford sponsorring mobile blood units on · campus, as the Red Cross previously had done, the campus council developed its system of taking students to the Central Blood Bank. 
The blood bank is a member of 
the American Association of Blood 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college seml!!lter except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Only Continental gets you a flight, a chalet, a car, and lifts for $264. 
Our exclusive new Rocky Mountain 
ski packages feature luxury furnished chalet 
studio condominiums a short walk from the 
lifts. lt"s the Ultimate Lift Ticket! 
Chicago-Breckenridge package covers: 
• 
Round-trip jet Coach airfare with tax, and meeting service at Denver Airport 

• 
7 nights lodging, 7 days skierized rental, 3 days lift tickets 

• 
Lowest possible prices, immediate package confirmation 

• 
Larger chalets available with one to three bedrooms for two to six people 


We have similar packages available at Vail, Snowmass/Aspen, Keystone, and Steamboat. All prices per person double occupancy, with state and local room and car taxes additional. Rental-car gas and mileage extra; driver must be 21 or over. 
We really move our tail for you~ 
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 
The Proud Bird with the Golden lail. 
•-~·•




Cinema 
PRESENTS 

Maurice Chevalier 
• 


Leslie Caron Louis Jourdan 
•1n 



GiGi 
Thursday and Friday Night Engineering Auditorium Admission one dollar 
For more information, contact 
your travel agent or Continental 
at 686-6500, or send in the coupon. 
1-CO~T~ENT~ ;:;-RLINES----UND--­
I  P.O. Box 4187, North Hollywood, Calif. 91607  
1  I want to get in on the ground floor of that ski  
1  chalet package program. Tell me more!  
II  Name___________________________  
I  Address__________________  
I  City  State  Zip_____  
1  Phone ___My travel agent is_____  

Banks, which announced that it would receive only volunteer donors by 1975. This, according to Council Chairmen Colleen O'Rourke and John Famula, in­creased the need for volunteers. 
Based on last semester's results, the new system has been suc­cessful, according to O'Rourke. "We kept close to our quota of 20 pints of blood per week," she stated. 
Not all students car. donate, though, they continued. No one who has had infectious hepatitus, diabetes, chronic kidney disease, or infectious mononucleosis within the past year may donate. 
Volunteers who at the time of donation have a cold or flu, are asked to postpone their donation until the symptoms have subsided. 
Consumption of diet pills, aspirin, contraceptives, or an­tihistamines will not disqualify a donor. 
Friday, January 17, 1975 
Faculty reacts to Ford's program 
by Don Reimer "welcome and late", pointed out consumption. "The revenue from be justified, Durbin viewed a ten need wage and price guidelines of 
Staff Reporter the three fold problem covered by this tax could be used to develop cent price jump as "counter some sort." 
Ford's plan. "Ford has three, not mass transportation and new productive." "The person who The lowering of tax rates was 
A survey of a half dozen Notre very well-patched together con­energy sources," added Swartz. A drives a big car and does most of generally viewed favorably by Dame faculty members yesterday cerns," said Arnold. "He is trying system of tax credits for low in­the unnecessary social driving can those professors consulted, though concerning President Gerald to fight a recession, stop inflation, come groups would also be in­easily afford to pay the higher some doubts were voiced. Ford's economic proposals drew and solve our energy problems all stitutued in this case. price," he explained. "However, Government and International varied reactions. in one program." Assistant Economics Professor 1 the poor man who drives only to Studies Professor John Roos, in 
Ford's program, outlined Clarence Durbin expressed serious work cannot afford such an in­what he termed only an "initial" Wednesday in his State of the Gas tax criticized doubts about the distribution of the crease," he continued. reaction, expressed concern about Union address to Congress, con­import tax on oil. "The idea of "Any rebate gained on taxes by a the equity of distribution of the sists basically of reduction in both Much concern was voiced over distribution of this one-to-three poor person will likely be simply initial tax cuts. "They might prove corporate and personal tax rates the ultimate effect of the energy dollar import duty over everyone taken back through this increased to be regressive," he said, combined with an increase in oil program. Professor Thomas that uses petroleum was very tax," Durbin remarked. "because of higher petroleum taxes. The President also asked Swartz, an associate professor of simplistic," Durbin stated. "It prices which affect the poor more for a moratorium on social Economics, called the energy assumes great elasticity of Tax cut inevitable than the upper classes." "I do spending by the federal govern­measures "absolutely terrible." demand for natural gas, jet fuel agree that some type of cuts are 
ment and standby authority to "The gas tax is only going to and other petroleum products," he The possibility of greatly in­needed," he added. ration gasoline. drive up gas prices domestically, explained. creased inflation due to the All of the professors questioned 
The new tax plans would add and the oil companies will gain "I am doubtful as to the equity of projected 15 billion dollar rise in agreed .that some type of tax cut approximately 30 billion dollars to windfall profits," Swartz said. He distribution of the tax," com­the federal budget deficit was would be passed. the price of fuel, while reducing expressed doubt that the "extra mented Durbin. "On the surface it explained by Economics Professor "Unemployment is going up at a overall taxes by nearly 22 billion profits tax" on the oil companies appears that the impact of the Stephen Worland. Worland, who disastrous rate, so Congress will 
dollars. would be sufficient to substanitally import tax will fall on those who said that the new program was "a have to pass some kind of tax 
Government Professor Peri reduce their extra profits. can't afford it-the poor." classic way of dealing with a cutting measure," observed Arnold, commenting that the Swartz suggested a "severe While admitting that a three depression", cited the cost-push Professor Swartz. administration's action were excise tax" on gasoline to reduce cents to four cents increase might type of inflation as being the main Professor Roos pointed out that 
inflationary force. the form of distribution of tax 
He explained that cost-push benefits would be subject to some inflation is not caused by increased debate. Roos emphasized that the demand, but rather by a cycle of issues of oil taxes and relaxation of wage and price rises. Therefore, environmental controls would
Student life to be studied 
the increased demand caused by probably be strongly contested. the federal budget deficit will not Professor Arnold agreed that automatically cause inflation if "recession measures," such as taxministrators also serve on the John Houck, Lynn Larkin, Tom properly handled. cuts, would certainly be passed.
committee. Drape and Darlene Palma; ser­
by Mary Reher "It will take skillful He felt, however, that Congress
ving the Academic subcommittee 

Staff Reporter ,statesmanship, however, to make would fight the energy program
Committees start research are Fr. Terry Lally, Dean Emil sure that increased demand is not and spending cuts. "Congress is
Hofman, Jim Eder and Pat Burke; 

frittered away on prices rather not going to fail to vote programsThe Committee on Un-The Committee on Un-the Finance subcommittee con-than production," cautioned such as national health care,"dergraduate Life will soon begin to dergraduate Life held its first sists of Fr. Daivd Schlaver, Frank Worland, "and we'll definitely Arnold stressed.
study student life in depth and meeting December 12, 1974. The Flanagan, Tom Fitzgerald and recommend any desirable changes members were asked to consider Diane Merten. to the Student Affairs Committee the· area of student life to which Working on the Residentiality 

SUNDAY MASSES
on the Board of Trustees, Student they were assigned over the subcommittee are Robert Body President Pat McLaughlin vacation. Ackerman, Prof. John Roos, Bob 
1\AAIN G-fURCH
announced yesterday. McLaughlin said, "We're sen-Howl, Ed Byrne, and Mary Ellen 1 Seven students had presented a ding out letters to all sub-Keenan; members of the report to the Student Affairs committee members on the 16th or Coeducation subcommittee are Sr. 
SAT 5:15PM FR. BOB GRIFFIN, CSC
Committee October 17, 1974, 17th instructing them to hold their John Miriam, Mrs. Carole Moore, proposing the formation of the own meetings in the next two or Fr. Robert Griffin, Ann McCarry, , SUN 9:30AM FR. LEN BANAS, CSC above committee, divided into five three weeks and begin their in-Ellen Syburg, and Greg Banggs. 
SUN 10:45 AM FR. JAMES SHILTS, CSC 
subcommittees to study the areas vestigations. At the end of this The committees are not 
SUN 12:15 PM FR. BILL TOOHEY, CSC
of Academics, Coeducation, time Just and McLaughlin will restricted to researching the Finances, Residentiality , and meet with the committees in-suggested areas they received at Student Affairs. The following dividually and discuss their the first meeting and are en-day, the report was submitted and progress. couraged to investigate any area 
~:;t~~;~ at the Board of Trustees' wi~~A~e~~f~e ti:':n~~eofcosr:;;:!~!J ~~~dfe~~~:rtinent to student live, r--;;;;PiOMOrroNs;uSE_Nls--­
It was decided that the com-resource people who work on the Brother Just deferred com-1 1 mittee would consist of students, campus and have particular menting on the committee and 1 an evening of Southern Boogie with I administrators, and faculty knowledge of a problem," stated stated that, "Since it is a student 

<:h I 
members familiar with one of the McLaughlin. "The committee organization, I'd rather the I /f~ 
five areas listed ahove. members will go to these people statement came from a student." I II; 1 By December 6, all the student for information after they deter-''I feel that the committee's members had been selected by mine how to approach their area of report will have great influence on ~ v«a.n~~rn/1 UuJ'kr 1 
Brother Just Pace1.sny, vice concentration." the Board of Trustees, because the president of student affairs, and After the committees have committees consist of 
1 

McLaughlin who will act as completed their research they will professionals and experts in their ~ ~tJhwi ~ 
moderators. submit a report containing areas of research," stated 
McLaughlin said he had invited recommendations for their McLaughlin. some students to be members (If respective areas to the Student "I am very optimistic about the the committee and others Affairs Committee. The target committee," said Banggs. "If we 1 \ I
1

themselves had requested to join date for the report has been set at live up to the expectations of the \ \ 1 th~.~~~eTei~~:~ students then listed ~~;!~d~· on ~h~~ve;i1 ~~: c~%~ r~~~~ltn1is~ea:e :~r:;e r::~wa~~ 1 ji 1 
approximately twenty faculty mittees conclude their in-seriously." 1 members who, they felt, had vestigations, noted McLaughlin. The Student Affairs Committee.. I previously displayed great interest has shown an interest in this by I in student life, and asked them to Success looks hopeful asking us to form this committee. 1 join the subcommittees. Although If we have sound ideas we will be I /1 1 a few professors were unable to do Members of the subcommittee of listened to because we have the so, the majority agreed to help, Student Affairs are Mrs. Mary people and the resources," stated I I 
McLaughlin noted. Five ad-Clare McCabe, Sr. Jane Pitz. Prof. Keenan. 
--~--------------------~~-------­
* ATTENTION 
* 

HALL PRESIDENTS 
PLEASE HAVE YOUR RAFFLE GiAIRMEN RETURN All RAFFLE BOOKS AND MONEY TO PEGGY FORAN ;;:if§Jo!JJ/fl\0
217 LYONS lW ~JG 


BY F:~o~~EJ!:~~ 24~ 
A complete list of people who . ~~~-q ~ .. . ~.­sold books must also be turned 1n, '~V in order to issue admission buttons 
I I
I I 
I I 
I I 
I I I AND I 
I MICHAEL I 
I MURPHY I I I I 7:30 P.M. SUNDAY JAN. 19 I
I MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM I 
I lESERVED SEATS $5.50 ADVANCE $6.00 DAY OF SHOW I 
I GOOD TICKETS NOW AVAILABLE AT I 
.THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFic!:, II MORRIS CIVIC, AND BOOGIE RECORDS II TICKETSWILLALSO BE AVAILABLE AT 
THE MORRIS CIVIC BOX OFFICE I
I 

SUNDAY NIGHT UNTIL INTERMISSION. I
I 

the observer Friday, January 17, 1975 
•

Helm's testimony defends CIA act1ons 
the advocacy of violent change
"I was and remain proud of order to preserve what was uncompromiSing JUSUllcation
WASHINGTON <UPil -For­in our system of government. mer CIA Director Richard my work there, culminating in described as a need for for the activities Colby had He said this dissent, by itself, 
Helms said Thursday his agents my 61.!z half years as director," intelligence secrecy. disclosed. was of no interest to the CIA. 
had to spy upon American Helms said in a four-page Of necessity, intelligence In normal times, he said, few "It became so only in the radicals because some of them statement presented to the must be protected by secrecy Americans would ever "come degree that the trouble was had links with foreign subver­Senate Armed Services Com­which, in turn, necessitates within the purview of our inspired by, or coordinated 
sives, and he defended the mittee. public confidence and trust," foreign intelligence operations. with, or funded by, anti­CIA's record "without regrets, "I beleved in the importance Sen. John C. Stennis, the "Until the recent past, such Amreican subversion mech­without qualms, without apolo­to the nation of the function committee chairman, said. involvements were rare oc­anisms abroad. 
gy." that the agency served. I still Committee sources said Colby curences. Then in the late 1950s "As the workload grew, a 
Helms lashed back at the do: without regrets, without merely re-read the report on and early 1960s came the very small group within the CIA's critics in prepared qualms, without apology." CIA domestic activities he had sudden and quite dramatic already small counterintelli­testimony at a special Senate Helms and Colby appeared made public Wednesday. It upsurge of extreme radicalism gence staff was formed to hearing, describing himself as before an expanded panel of the included admissions the agency in this country and abroad, an analyze the information deve­"indignant at the irresponsible Armed Services intelligence kept files on some 10,000 uprush of violence against loped here and to give guidance
attacks" against the agency subcommittee, which began American dissidents, infiltrated authority and institution, and to our facilities abroad." 
and warning they could serious­"in-depth" hearings into allega­the anti-war movement in the ly damage U.S. interests "if tions the CIA violated its 1960s, staged three break-ins to suffered to pass unchallenged." charter by spying upon Ameri­safeguard CIA secrets, tapped 
Helms, now ambassador to can anti-war dissidents and the phones of 21 U.S. citizens to Iran, was CIA director from other domestic radical groups check security leaks and 1966 to 1973 and deputy director in the 1960s and early 70s. opened mail sent to two before that, when most of the Unlike Colby's testimony unidentified Communist coun­domPstic intelligence activities Wednesday before a Senate tries by U.S. citizens. outlined Wednesday by the appropriations subcommittee, Helms, making his first 
current director, William E. Thursday's hearings were con­extensive public statement on Colby, took place. ducted behind closed doors in the issue, in effect delivered an 
IRA calls off 25-day cease-fire 
CONGRATULATIONS ND & ARA IN THE ORANGE BOWL. WELCOME BACK, STUDENTS! from 

THE ROMA 
your host FRANK ANASTASIO 
this weekend live music by 
PLEASANT STREET BAND 
PIZZA SANDWICHES LIQUOR DANCING FOR DELIVERY, CALL 234·3258 219 N. Michigan Ave. (next to Morris Civic) 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
By DONAL O'HIGGINS The council had been meeting freed, quickly denounced the A f DUBLIN <UPI> -The Irish in what IRA sources called 
~h~~~.. as "dangerous brinkman-t Start the Semester with t
Ht•publican Army announced "heated and protracted" dis­Thursday it was calling off its cussions since Tuesday, when Thursday's statement called 25-day-old cease-fire in North­Northern Ireland Secretary the number freed "an insult to f f ern Ireland and Britain because Merlyn Rees addressed the 
of a "Jack of response" from House of Commons about ~~~~~· member of the Irish t the Junior Class t lht> British government. moves toward peace in Ulster. It also listed seven other A While declaring it would not reasons for its decision to call J f t>xtend the truce beyond mid­Rees had said he would off the cease-fire, including a f f night Thursday the IRA said it gradually release IRA and 
charge the British Army at Kub.·ak's Happ H
had 

was still willing to negotiate "to British loyalist prisoners and not observed the truce except A Y Q U r t secure peace and justice in our withdraw British troops to their during the Christmas period. J land." barracks as a prelude to 
The statement did not say withdrawal from the province if "In view of the above facts f Fr·da J 1 7 f
when the IRA would resume its a permanent cease-fire was but principally due to a totai t I yI an . I t bomb and bullet campaign, but guaranteed. lack of response to peace f
our sources close to the group's proposals by the British govern-f seven-man Army Council said He followed that Wednesday ment, the Army Council cannot f f 
they did not expect new by announcing the release from 
in conscience renew the order 


3 • 3 0 6 • 30 
week­20 prisoners. The IRA,
hostilities until after the prison of suspending o fRfeAnssiav ~d. military A • -• A
end. infuriated by the low number action ... " the 11 J J 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
******************************************************************************************** 
~ * 
~ * 
~ r'\\ //\\;'. in)Jp Q j

t v /1.~~\;;Vw:/j~~ A'\ ~ 
~ Q:' Q'\;;,1 (/{) -r : 
~ II * 
; ~ c( ~:~~ _fr;/ )> ~ * 
I ~ ~~~ ~ I 
~ * 
~ * 
t * 

i ANYONE WISHING TO WORK ON THE ~ : ~ MARDI GRAS COMMITTEE PLEASE * a i~ MEET AT STEPAN CENTER 8 PM TON ITE! $ * 
t ~ 
~ * 
i CARPENTERS i : ARTISTS ~ f CARD SHARKS i : PHILOSOPHERS ~ : ~ GENERAL EXPERTS~ * 
i: All WELCOME ! ! $ * 
...........................................................................................* 
Letters Ta R Lanely Gad 
•

brown IS not a color of the rainbow 
rev•rend rabert ':lriffin 

Once upon a time, in my first year as an undergraduate student at Notre Dame, a classmate of mine, from the same hometown of Prtland, Maine, died suddenly of a lung cloy at St. Joe Hospital. The death was as sad affair for everybody; but in honesty, it was as terrifying to me as it was tragic. South Bend. Indiana, seeqted like such an alien place to die; Notre Dame seemed so cheerless, for I felt always and constantly homesick, that first year. What a horror it was to realize that death had ripped off the life of one student. Death could make another rip-{)ff, and next time it might be me. I didn't have any desire to die, none at all, ever. Most of all, I didn't want to die in a place as loveless (it seemed) as the St. Joe Hospital, away from family and myclosest friends. But I was terrified I might die as my classmate had died, and for a very long time, I lived with that fear. 
A little while ago, I was talking with a freshman student who stopped by to say hello, and he talked about the difficulties of his first semester at Notre Dame. At times, he said, he hadn't even felt as though he were alive. "It's going to be different this semester," he said, "if only I can learn to cope." For a moment, I thought I saw a glimpse of myself as I might have looked or sounded thirty years ago, though the boy was not a neurotic who feared death as I had been. He liked the place very much, he said, except there was never enough room for the essential pleasures and beauty, and he hadn't had enough time to breathe. 
Since those first, uncertain un­
dergraduate days, I have learned to love 
this place, its people, its traditions, its 
disciplines, its achievements. I have ad­
mired, and profited from, the scholarship of 
the faculty, the standards of excellence in 
the classroom, the loyalty of the men and 
women who serve the place, the living faith 
that consecrates these acres to God. 
Without reservation, I can say that Notre 
Dame is my home, my substitute for wife 
and children for all the ye,ars that I am bert;. 
ln death, I hope to belong to the place, as m 
love and memory, the place will always belong to me. 
But with all these attachments, I can still understand the distress of a boy speaking of his first semester at Notre Dame, when, he says, at times he hadn't even felt as thoughhe were alive. To tell the truth, there have been days in my own life when Notre Dame seemed nothing more than a verdant prison. 
There are ways in which a job, a school, a new . situation or relationship can legitimately make tremendous demands of us; it is part of the discipline requiring self­adjustment. Sometimes our obligationsnearly crush us before we learn to live with them in dignity, but there is always a grace given to us to help us face our duties. What_I dread in life is not the duties, but the bullsh1t that people impose in the name of duty--the bullshit for which there are no discernible graces available. You known what I mean by bullshit: the petty, sometimes cruel demands that people heap on each other to satisfy their. personal egos, pride, in­security, or bad judgement. Each of us is capable of spreading the manure heaps in the other's way, pretending, or even believing, we are justified in forcing folks to make us bricks without straw; but no matter what principles we invoke to justify our sincerity, the name of the game at times is still Ia merde. Computers or other systems of the university that break down can also contribute to the unpleasantness of the bullshit jungle, causing us as much heartache, worry, or confusion as any petty tyrant.
My advice to the person who is over­whelmed by it all: stand clear of the 
· bullshit! Or, if you must submit to it, recognize it for what it is, and surrender nothing that is essential: neither your sense of humor, nor your peace of mind, nor your hierarchy of values, nor your human sensitivity, nor the integrity of your soul. On the morning you wake up and find you have forgotten how to smile, or smell a rose, or admire a butterfly, or pray with comfort, or love a friend, or console the suffering; on the day that you find that a job, an education, a friendship, or a marria_ge is turning you into a liar, a cheat, a thief, a bully, or a neurotic: then exa~ine the earth where you are standing and fmd out whose manure heap you've been building dreams upon. Ask yourself, "Is it worth it?" Don't be too quick to answer in negatives. You could, for example, quit school and join the army; then discover that you have merely exchanged the ivy-covered dungheap for the 
G.I. bull. Bullshit, like the poor, we have always with us. 
Young people, I suspect, are the special victims of the ordure pros because when they've been forced to wear a hatfull of the stuff, they can't always distinguish it from brown, curly hair. But young people have a talent of their own for stirring up bullshit, as any parent or teacher can tell you. Just because you are displeased or in­convenienced by life doesn't mean you are standing in someone's barnyard. It doesn't really pay to be self-pitying about the ob­noxious odors you think you smell, because other people have to breathe the same polluted airs, and they are too busy with their own disenchantment to nurse youthrough your little crisis. Anyway ,your dad has been putting up with crap from his clients or customers, his boss or the shopforemen, for all his working life; otherwise, he couldn't pay for your education. The only thing you can do with crap is to build an umbrella so that it doesn't suffocate you; and don't make waves in your own life that leave stinks or stains upon the souls of others. 
I am not especially fond of the scatalogical imagery frankly, I would prefer to use a more romantic idiom.. But loving this campus and its people as I do, I can't bear to see some of the needless suf­fering that goes on at times. Notre Dame can be a tough place to live; it has to be a tough place, because pain and dying are as much a part of life as the consummation of a marriage; everything that is human belongs to the life of the university student. You didn't come to college, thinking it was Valhalla, and you don't need the University Chaplain whining on your behalf. As the phrase goes: if you don't like the heat, stay out of the kitchen. 
But after all this has been said, I'm going to be churlish enough to suggest that even in an academic~lly-demanding institution, like Notre Dame, founded on Christian traditions and moving forward with its vision of a service to mankind, people could be kind enough to each other to distinguishbetween bullshit and the disciplines that are needed for growth. I swear there are students on this campus who are shrinking instead of growing. Somehow we must take better care of them than that. 
I am not clever enough to judge the legitimacy of the demands that any other person, at any level of the university, makes on his students, his teachers, his rector, his assistants, his employees, his department, his hall, his community, his administrators, his administratees, his patrons, his ad­mirers, his friends, his ene"l!ies, his em­ployer, or his God. But I fear there is a destructiveness at work on this campus, turning irritations into crises, and crises into tragedies, or events that look like tragedies, because someone, supposed to be wise, didn't know how to be sensitive to the ways in in which another perosn, or a groupof persons, was hurting. 
Once upon a time, when I was an un­dergraduate, I worried about dying in a place as alienating as the Notre Dame campus. I know today that if death comes looking for me here, death will find me at home among friends I care about deeply. But nght now, there are concerns more troublesome than the place where I will die. There are freshman students who are complaining that they don't have enough time to breathe. There are seniors who have lived like that for four breathless years. Should this be allowed to happen in a place with so much goodness and beauty? 




OBSERVER FEATURES 
yugoslavia: land in transition 
With a cultture very definitely its own and a populace swelled by tourists, Yugoslavia seems surprised at its own transformation. this eastern European country feels the regime of Moscow but also the spell of capitalistic enterprise and, to the visitor, the dichotomy is intriguing. To an American student living in Austria for the year, a two-week adventure through an eastern bloc country was an exciting proposition. So, three of us left Schloss Klessheim, our Salzburg home, for the unknown of Yugoslavia. 
We decided to head south through the eastern part of the country to see Zagreb and Belgrade and ultimately Dubrovnik and Split along the Dalmatian Coast. Our itinerary was extremely flexible since we could not obtain train or bus schedules for eastern Europe. The attractiveness of the individual cities would determine the length of our stay. 
Training from Vienna to Zagreb was more unusual than had been anticipated. We had been adivsed that visas were unnecessary for Yugoslavia, the only exception among the Communist states. Unfortunately, that advice conflicted with the military's practice. During the night we were awakened a number of times for a review of our passports. The inspectors' lengthy conferences concerned us, but our passports were eventually returned along with ac­companying visas without cost. 
The train arrived in Zagreb at 10 a.m. but it was and had been raining so steadily, that we decided to abandon this Croatian city and continue to Belgrade. Four hours later, we reached the capital of Yugoslavia. The sedate residential greeneries, of which Tito's unobtrusive estate is part, contrast mightily with the gathering masses of the downtown area, Belgrade's habit of en­joying lively, active evenings surprised us "Austrians", accustomed to cities (even 'Vienna) appearing ghost-like after 10 p.m. 
Due to Tito's immediate presence, Belgrade is infused with military, and so reflects an atmosphere more uneasy that other Yugoslavian cities. 
Another night train found us soaking wet, rumbling across the breadth cf the country towards Dubrovnik. The western landscape consisted of soft, rolling terrain, its far­mlands covered that day with a swirling mist-another, eerie, surprise in this land of the unexpected. We were brought back to reality by the almost non-existent town of Ploce, a transfer point for Dubrovnik. Ploce should be avoided at any cost, if at all possible. 
We were met in Dubrovnik's train station with room offers (commonplace throughout Yugoslavia) and, after a few parries in the duel of price-haggling, we were shown a fine room for thirty-five dinars (about $2.10). For the economy minded traveller, this bargaining process offers the best chance of obtaining a private room at modest cost. 
Dubrovnik consists of the ancient, for­tressed inner city and an area of subsequent growth around it. The Alstadt is very touristed, but justifiably so. A walk on the fortress' high walls affords dazzling scans of the calm Adriatic and the placid red-tiled roofs of the worn houses make it difficult to imagine the centuries of attack upon them. Much time was spent simply absorbing the sun's offerings. It is fortunate to have the time and sea at one's disposal to wonder and contemplate, and Dubrovnik's western edge provides just such unrivalled opportunity. 
This road trip northward from Dubrovnik to Split is extremely impressive. The mountain road winds along the crystal sea, the sharp curves yielding surprising spectacles of beauty. Along the same road, however, were an amazing number of embryonic towns, springing up wherever there chanced a pleasant seascape, evidencing Yugoslavia's intent to "Capitalize" on its tourist potential. 
Split <there should be a more complicated pronunciation, but your American instinct is correct) is larger, though less travelled, than Dubrovnik. It was gratifying to find many German-speakers here. Earlier, in Austria, we were overjoyed to hear snatches of English, but in Yugoslavia, our altered standards had us longing for some German, some French--any tongue even somewhat familiar was a much-needed relief from the exasperating Yugoslav dialects. Many Germans made Split a stopping point in their travels, and a knowledge of that language becomes ever more useful nor­thward along the coast. 
In ancien try, Diocletian had a palace erected and it serves today as an open area for market places, providing twisting streets of multi-colored cobblestone. As we abandoned the city and strolled along Split's portion of the Adriatic, the explosive fiery sunsets framed the many nearby islands; another day of our journey found us boating to visit one of those islands. 
Hvar was billed as a resort whose weather is so good that its hotels will pay half the price of a room if it rains, and the full price if it should ever snow. Rumor has it that the hostelries have never iost money on the offer. In October the water temperature was in the seventies and the brilliant sun made the sea utterly transparent. Ex­pecting the three-ring-circus atmosphere of an all-year tourist resort, we were amazed to find quiete streets, an underabundance of hotels, and the loveliest swimming areas anywhere in Yugoslavia. The beaches of Split and Dubrovnik are hailed as gorgeous and unparalled, but actually are less attractive than those on Hvar. The large island is sprinkled with ruins, some prehistoric, of castles and churches. 
From Hvar we sailed on a small ship to Rejika, a large port further north. An in­teresting surprise was watching Casablanca on the ship's television. Imagine the 
by bill carey 
haunting strains of "As Time Goes By" in 
Yugoslavian. Rejika is uninviting and, like 
Ploce, should be regarded only as a con­
nection point. 
Yugoslavia is a land with two definite and divergent lifestyles. Tito's Communist rule conflicts directly with the capitalistic inclinations of the Adriatic paradises. Yugoslavia is an interesting study because of its stage of development. A country in embryonic transition, unsure of it limits and latitudes, it is growing quickly and visibly. Other countries have firmly established attractive-to-the-tourist-trade areas. In contrast, Yugoslavia, only recently recognizing its potential for expansion, has not yet officially designated such areas although the consecutive number of fabricated, "antique" towns under con­struction along the coast is convincing evidence of Yugoslavia's headlong rush into capitalism. A climax may be reached following Tito's death since Moscow is under joyed with Yugoslavia's growth tendencies and may therefore prompt large­scale revamping. Yugoslavia's attractions, especially the coastal areas, are becoming accustomed to aggressive enterprise and will only reluctantly surrender their newly­acquired pleasures. 
Yugoslavia should be visited soon before the ideology of capitalism becomes all­encompassing. Transportation, food and lodging are among Europe's best buys. Its islands on the Adriatic are beautifully green and mysterious, their treasures waiting discovery. If the traveller lets the unex­pected become the pattern and absorbs the provocative culture without any Americanized pre-conceptions, he will be fascinated to find that Yugoslavia remains a country whose surprises still are unfolding, whose near Eastern mystique is still to be savored; a land to be both enjoyed and explored. 
Frifiay, January 17, 1975
the observer
6 


Prospective St. MaryS RAS to meet ]an. 24 
by Jane Cannon Staff Reporter 
An introductory meeting for aU St. Mary's juniors or sophomores interested in becoming Resident Advisors will be held Friday, January 24, in Carroll Hall, at 5:31 
p.m. and again at 6:30 p.m. Specific expectations of the RA 

position will be explained and a director of counseling. question and answer period will In addition, three recom­follow. mendation forms are required. 
St. Mary's Student Affairs Office They must be completed by: (A) is currently seeking to fill 56 one SMC administrator or faculty Resident Advisor positions for the member, (B) a current Resident 1975-76 school year. Juniors and Advisor <the applicant has the sophomores are eligible for these option of selecting an RA outside of salaried positions, according to her floor, although the RA on her Gail Ritchie, assistant to the floor will eventually be asked to 
NO student dies of heart attack 
I 
James S. Ward, a twenty-one year old senior Science maJor at the University of Notre Dame died of a heart arrest in Florida on Saturday, January 11. Ward was on tour through the South with the St. Mary's Collegiate Choir, at the time of his death. 
I 
A resident of Beaver, Penn­sylvania, Ward suddenly collapsed on the beach at approximately 9:30 
a.m. The police arrived in a 
matter of minutes and ad­ministered oxygen to Ward. He regained consciousness as he was being placed into an ambulance. 
Ward was taken to the North Beach Medical Center, three blocks away where he reportedly regained consciousness three times. He died at 10:30 a.m. 
An autopsy performed later that 
afternoon showed that the cause of death a congenital coronary artery defect which in turn triggered a heart arrest. 
Ward had recently been ac­
cepted into the School of Medicine at the University of Pittsburgh for the fall term in 1975. He achieved the Dean's list at Notre Dame 
SMC freshman elections are null and void 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 

Although Friday the Thirteenth is traditionally considered the day for bad luck, it appears that Thursday the Twelfth is equally capable of providing misfortune, as evidenced by the announcement that the freshmen class elections at St. Mary's ht>ld on Thursday, December 12, are null and void. 
The announcement came following the discovery that the 
ballot boxes in two of the four re~dence halls on campus were not manned. 
According to Election Com­missioner Katie Kearney, a work schedule, designating the hours which certain students were to man the polls, was drawn up in 
each of the dorms prior to the t>lection. However, two of the halls failed to comply with the schedule. Kearney wished that the identity of these halls remain unknown. 
The election has been rescheduled for next Thursday, January 23. No new candidates will be allowed to run, but those who were on the ballot last month 

will also be listed on this one, she stated. 
Candidates will be allowed to re­open their campaigns this Saturday. All campaigning must end, though, on midnight, Wed­nesday the 22nd. 
Freshman class presidential hopefuls include Joan Carroza, Charlotte Degentesh and Cathy Haberkorn. Among those running for freshman vice-president are: Mary Garrett, Barbara Halley, Joan Miller, and Laura Ann Prestine. Kellee Nash and Laurie McAllister are seeking the position of freshman class secretary, while Karen Van Gernert and Mary Klassen are running f<~r class treasurer. 
Two representatives to the student assembly must also be selected at this election. Among those running are Vivian Elon­tigui, Karen Field, and Cindy Raccuglia. 
The polls will open Thursday at 10 a.m., and will remain open until 6 p.m. that night. • every semester since he was a freshman. 
He was president of the student body his senior year at Beaver Area High School and received a National Merit Scholarship Letter of Commendation. 
Twenty three members of the choir accompanied by Brother Lawrence Stewart, professor of biology at St. Mary's and member of the group, sang at the funeral Mass and graveside services held on Wednesday, January 15th in Ward's home town. The Mass was concelebrated by Fr. Thomas Tallarida, Fr. Charles Bober and Mgsr. Raymond T. Schultz. 
Ward's family, consisting of his mother , Mrs. Dolores Ward, his two brothers Patrick and Michael and his sister Barbara had requested that no flowers be sent nor masses said, but rather, donations be made to Cila. 
All the members of the choir who went to thE! funeral were housed by neighbors and friends of the family. "It was the greatest outflow of generosity I have ever seen," Stewart noted. "Jim was so unassuming I never realized how popular and well loved he was," he continued. 
"Jim was the first in the choir to welcome the freshmen and he became even more outgoing during the tour," added Nano Wright, a member of the choir. 
Dr. Arman Kitto, chairman of the St. Mary's Music Department stated, "The day before all this happened, Jim came up to me, shook my hand and told me that he thought the tour had been a wonderful experience." 

comment), and <C> one St. Mary's or Notre Dame undergraduate student who knows the applicant well. 
After receipt of a class schedule and application form, all can­didates will be assigned two personal interview dates, between Frbruary 10 and March 13. One interview will be with a Hall Director and the other will be with two members of the Student Af­fairs Staff. 
Between February 10 and February 28, each candidate will be assigned an apprenticeship group consisting of five applicants and two current RA's, acting as group leaders. The informal format of these groups will include questions relevant to the RA position as well as exercises in human relationships. 
By 3:00 p.m. on Thursday, March 13, all appointments will be posted outside the Counseling Center office. 
Currently the position pays $275, which is decucted from the student's room tuition, although the salary for next year has not yet been decided by the Finance Committee of the college. 
Current junior RA's who wish to retain their positions must com­plete an application form and answer essay questions concerning her working philosophy as a 
· Resident Adivsor, what she has accomplished this year and how 
ATTENTION • MARDI GRAS I
BOOTH CHAIRMEN 
• MEET AT THE ARCH. BUILDING AT 
1:00 PM TODAY TO RECEIVE YOUR BOOTH DESIGNS 
*ALSO* 

BE AT STEPAN TONIGHT FOR INSTRUCTIONS ON CARNIVAl PROCEDURES 
ANY HAllS WISHING TO HAVE A BOOTH MUST HAVE A REP. AT BOTH THESE MEETINGSII 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~111 Ill 
she thinks the RA program could be improved. 
She must also have the residents on her floor complete an Evaluation Form for Resident Advisors and meet with her Hall Director and Gail Ritchie by February 3. Appointments will be made by February 9. 
Ritchie has expressed encouragement to girls who wish to apply, stating that she hopes "students will enjoy the selection process as the small groups will be informal so they an relax, and the process is very fair." 
She commented that the ex­perience of being an RA is "im­portant because the girls gain in­service training and are receiving information and knowledge about how to be a para-professional in student relationships." 
"I feel that the position develops leadership skills on the part of the student and she helps hall life development by stimulating dorm programs. To me, the resident advisor is an extension of the Student Affairs office," Ritchie continued. 
DEPRESSION ART "FOUND" 
Public Offered 1937 U.S. Gov't Art Prints 
A series of rare coincidences has led to the historic discovery of several thousand sets of full color antique art prints that were "lost• since 1937." They are now being offered to the American public. 
Eleanor Roosevelt Back in 1937, immediately following the depression years, Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt and a select group of a dozen nationally prominent people formed a voluntary national committee for art appreciation to create an art pro8ram that would give the public a well­needed moral lift. It was the committee's decision to select the world's most famous pain­tings from the 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th and 20th centuries • the best paintings of Matisse, Van Gogh. Gainsborough, Picasso, Gauguin, Titian, etc., and to reproduce them in full color as perfectly as humanly possible and make them available to the public at a price within the reach of nearly everyone. Abandoned In 1937 For some unknown reason, after a quantity of these beautiful reproductions were made, the entire project was abandoned and this collection of perfect reproductions was stored in a Brooklyn warehouse, where they remam­ed undisturbed since 1937. The lost collection was "rediscovered" and leading lithographers and art critics agree that the subJect matter and quality of detail and color reproduction is incredibly ac­curate. Over $500,000.00 had been spent to make finely engraved glass printin~ plates. These authentic origmal 1937 prints are literally collectors' Items and have been appraised by the American Appraisers Assoc. at $7.00 each print. Once they have been sold, there will be no more available. A truly excellent art "investment" that makes a fabulous gift. Available to Public Now, after 38 years these full color H:'x14" (ave. size) prints are finally available to the public at $19.95 for a collection of 18 prints. Send cash, check or money order to: U.S. Surplus, Dept. #Xl7, P. 0. Box 605. Tarzana, Cali£.91356. Fully GUARANTEED. Certificate of authenticity given with each set. Mastercharge and BankAmericard OK (give card number). 

campus view 

A NEW APARTMENT COM­
MUNITY DEVELOPED FOR THE STUDENTS OF NOTRE DAME & SAINI' MARY'S. CAMPUS VIEW IS SET IN A WOODED SURROUNDING YET IS ONLY 
3 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME. LOCATED JUST ONE BLOCK NORTH OF STATE RD. 23 OFF OF WILLIS RD. 




VleiJ 
GJE and.TV\0 BIDROOM RJRNISHED APARTMENTS 
ic COMMUNITY BUILDING ic INDOOR SWIMMING POOL 
TO  BE  COMPLETED  IN  FEB  
ic  BASKETBALL COURT  
ic  SHAG CARP.ET  

ic 2 BATHS IN 2 BEDROOM APT ic ALL APPLIANCES COLOR 
COORDINATED ic SECURITY ic SOUND CONDITIONED ic PRIVACY 
"tON RENTING FOR SECON> SEMESTER" FOR RENT/4.1NFORMATION PHONE 272-1441 

IN CONCERT 
HELEN REDDY 
with SpeciaiGuest PETER ALLEN SUN. FEB. 9th 8:00 P.M. 
'LeMans Hall residents given ne\¥ reel carpet treatment 
by Mary Egan added. "Regina is not a college stallation and labor charges is Staff Reporter building," she explained. The approximately $57,000, said Sr. Sisters of the Holy Cross own the Marie Pierre Canty, director of Le Mans Hall residents received hall and lease it to the college. fiscal affairs. The low cost of the red carpet treatment during Temporary carpeting was laid rugs was possible through the Christmas break as new red and down on the North · first floor benefactions of a Board of Regents 
black carpeting was installed on section to reduce the noise caused member, she explained. the upper floors of the dorm. by the traffic there. Rumors that the money for the Carpeting in Holy Cross on the first It is not practical to carpet the carpeting came from unused floor resident area and the chapel first floor of LeMans," stated Dr. science lab fees are not true. will be completed shortly. Cannon. LeMans is a multi­
"This was done at the direction purpose hall," she explained. It is llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll of the Board of Regents," ex­used as a route by people going plained Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, from one end of the campus to the Night Editor: Bill Brink vice president of student affiars. other. "We'd be better off car­Asst. Night Editor: Val Zurblis 
"The students have been asking peting the tunnels, Cannon said. Layout: Martha Fanning, Katie for it for years," she added. The The dining hall will receive gold Kerwin, Bob Brink Hall Life Committee recom­carpeting. probably very soon, Copy Reader: Jeanne Murphy,mended the carpeting to the Board added Cannon. Many students Jim Eder, Ken Bradford of Regents at their October think this idea is very impractical. Day Editor: Terry Keeney, Ken meeting. According to Dr. Cannon, Saga Girouard 
The carpeting helps reduce the Director Crawford Caswell felt it Features: Dan Sanchez noise level in the halls and keeps would be easier to keep clean. Sports: Greg Corgan them warmer. The area around the food lines Typists: Anne Peeler, Don Roos,
Student reaction to the carpeting will not be carpeted because this is Tom Modglin, Jim Landis, Rick is generally favorable. "1 like the where most spillage occurs. Huber, Howard Halle carpeting, but the red color doesn't "This is the kind of carpeting Compugraphic Operator: John go perfectly with the green walls that will clean easily," said Dr. 
Kuhn on the third and fourth floors, Cannon. The carpeting will reduce Picture Screener: Albert stated one student. the noise level, which has been a Night Controller: M. J. FoleyThere are no present plans for student complaint in the past. similar carpeting in Regina or the The price of the 9009 square 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

first floor of LeMans. Dr. Cannon yards of carpeting, including in-
Chorale gives concert in Chicago 
by Kathy Mills Starr Reporter well," added Dr. Isele. pointed out that most of the Chorale member Tawny Ryan members had not sung for about a 
Under the direction of Dr. David declared that she was "very month before this latest per­Clark Isele, the Chorale gave a pleased" with {he concert and formance. concert at the Beverly Arts Center in Chicago, January 14. The reason for this performance 
NEIGHBORHOOD STlDY HELP 
was to open up the Center's concert series. 

PRESENTS 

According to Dr. Isele, the group's selections were "a pot­pourri of everything," ranging from "post-Epiphany" songs to 
PRETTY MAIDS 
Applachian folk tunes. Included in the repertoire were "the Devil's Question," "Dodgin", "Tiranti My 
ALL IN A ROW(R)
Love," Randoll Thompson's "Alleluia," and Vittoria's "Ave Maria." 
STARRING: Angie Dickinson 
Dr. Isele stated that he felt that 
Rock Hudson Telly Savalas
the performance went well, although the Chorale had only a short time to rehearse. The 
ENG. AUD. 

group's 25 members shortened their vacation two days to return to 
SAT.and SUN. Jan 18, 19 
Notre Dame in order to prepare for the concert. 
8 and 10 PM $1.00 
"The audience received us 
PLUS W.C. Fl H RT 
Bus trip planned by Right to Life 

The St. Joseph County Right to Life Committee is sponsoring a bus 
HOUSE

trip to Washington, D.C. on January 22 to join in the nation­wide March for Life. The March is 
drop in 

intended to protest the Supreme Court decision on abortion of the 
for some 

second anniversary of that decision. 
music 'n 

The bus will leave the local Right to Life office on January 21 and 
munchies 

return the morning of January 23. Cost of the round trip is $42. Persons interested in the trip 
see y a ton i g h t! 

should contact Joe Corpora at 3161. 
WELCOME BACK ! 
BULLA SHED-TONIGHT AND EVERY FRIDAY AT 5 PM. 
MASS FOLLOWED BY SUPPER • NEW FRIENDS • AND OLD.



Ticket Prices 
Bleachers _______ $4.50 Lower Arena _____ $5.50 Floor, Loge •_____ $6.50 and Platforms ____ $6.50 
Concert Tickets Now on Sale 
NOTRE DAME, A.C.C. Mon. -Sat. 9 to 5 
Robertson's 
South Bend & Concord Mall 
St. Joseph Bank 
and branches 
First Bank 
Main office only 
Elkhart Truth 
WANTED 
4 UCLA tickets needed, please. Call Dave, 234.5523. 
One or two housemates. Private bedrooms. Close to campus. Good neighborhood. Call 233-5925. 
Need 2 UCLA tickets. Please call Mark, 287·7981. 
NOTICES 
Money? Morrissey Loan will lend up to $150 for 30 days. One.day waiting period. Bas ment of LaFortune. Daily, 11: 15·12: 15. 
Used and new books for these classes: Am. Studies: 470, 474, 482. Col. Seminar: 180, 322, 421. English: 109, 180, 186, 303, 313, 322, 326, 328, 331. 362, 382, 384, 385, 386, 392B, 421 B, 482, 486, 490, 496, 505B, 505C, 579, 588, 664B, 674B, 675B. General Program: 180, 282, 342, 346, 382, 442, 444, 482. Govt: 180, 340, 342. Hist: 112, 114, 180, 322, 414. Hist. of Mex. Mod. Lang: 452, 459, 462, Phil: 101, 180, 201, 245, 275, 351, 426, 441. Thea: 122, 126, 222, 210, 302, 330, 346, 356, 402, 446. Pandora's Books, 602 N. St. Louis. 
Hash Brown Blues Band available lor your dance or party. Call 272­9895 (evenings) lor information. 
Overseas jobs-Australia, Europe, 
s. America, Africa. Students, all professions and occupations. $700 to $3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing. Free in­formation. TRANSWORLD RESEARCH CO., Dept F3, P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera; CA, 94925. 
SMC & ND: Pizza delivery, call The Roma, 234-3258. Monday through Saturday. 4:30 pm . 1:30 am. 
Tony's Shoe Repair is conveniently located on the first floor of Badin Hall. See Tony for all your shoe' repair needs. 
ND-SMC Council tor the Retarded: Saturday Rec. this Sat., Logan Center, 9:00-11:30 AM. 
Sunshine Promotions presents The Marshall Tucker Band and Michael Murphy in concert at the Morris Civic Auditorium this Sunday nights. Tickets now on sale at the Student Union Ticket Office. Tickets will also be available at the door Sunday night. 
The Bengal Boxing Club is open from 3:30 to 6:00 Monday through Friday in the ACC Boxing Room. All interested students are welcome. 
FOR RENT 
5 bedroom house for rent. Close to campus. Call 233-2613. 
For rent: top floor, $40 mo. Rides. Air cond., fireplace. Kitchen. 233· 1329. Days: 283-7579, Patty. 
503 West Jefferson duplex 3-room furnished apartment. First floor. Gas heat furnished. 289-6307, 234· 0596. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: one cufflink, green with white face. Reward. Call 3783. 
Lost: black billfold. Possibly near stadium. Keep money, return cards and papers. Call Joe, 234­8952. 
NOTRE DAME 
ATHLETIC AND CONVOCATION CENTER 
,-----------------,
I  CAFE de Ia Nuit  I  
t  t  
t  after the bars...  t  
t t :  got the munchies? TRY THE CAFE'S  t tI  
I  LATE NIGHT CUISINE  I  
tt  featuring:  Steak & Eggs  tt  
f  Omelettes  t  
f ~  for your late night dining pleasure Open 11 :00 p.m.  tI  

1_~::-~~~~~~..:r~~~:b!:.l 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Friday, January 17, 1975
the observer
8 

Notre Dame, Marquette, Digger,AI clash 
by Pete McHugh Notre Dame coming off a 84-77 overtime defeat Monday night. Digger Phelps and AI McGuire Marquette should also have the have a lot in common: they both 
momentum in the regionallydress flamboyantly, they both yell televised game with a seven game 
a lot, and they both handshake win streak and a 69-60 Tuesdayrelevantly. As if this was not 
night victory over South Carolina. 
enough, they both are basketball Most importantly, the Warriors coaches. Tomorrow in Milwaukee will have the home court ad­

they will try to forget such vantage in the Milwaukee Arena poignant similarities, however, as where they have won 108 of their they try to outsmart each other in last 111 games.

what has turned out to be an unholy For the Irish, the chief edge will war for the Catholic Midwest. 

be Adrian Dantley, the leading 
Notre Dame has been playing scorer in the nation with a 33.5 Marquette for the last 55years in a average. Dantley, a 6-5 sophomore rivalry that used to carry no more from Washington D.C., also tops than the usual Holy Cross-Jesuit his team in rebounds 01.8) and animosity. The last five years, field goal percentage (.519). though, have become more than McGuire indicated earlier this friendly tussles. In 1970, week that he would use various Marquette made its first ap­"gimmick defenses" (box-and­pearance in the new ACC one, double teaming> to stop somewhat momentous by forcing Dantley. Austin Carr and his Irish into two 
Heading the Marquette con­
overtimes before falling 96-95. In 1972, Phelps and Dwight Clay 

tingent will be another sophomore forward, Bo Ellis. 6-9 Ellis, who
made their debuts in Milwaukee Arena by breaking Marquette's 81 designed the new Warrior 
game home win streak on the now uniforms, carries a 17.3 scoring and 10.3 reboundin~ average. Digger Phelps will have to get a boost from soph forward Bill Paterno tomorrow if the Irish cagers 
patented "Iceman" corner jump­

shot. Against the Gamecocks Tuesday, are to upset 12th ranked MarqueHe. he sparked the win with 21 pointsLast year it was more of the and 12 rebounds. McGuire, near at country last spring. 
same as a powerhouse Marquette Notre Dame will use Clay (13.0)
a loss for words, called Dantley and Ellis the two best forwards in
team, their well-lubricated fans, and sophomore Ray Martin at the and the fiery McGuire invaded college basketball. guards with freshman ''Duck" South Bend. In a technical-riddled Williams in rt>serve. Senior Peter battle, Shumate, Brokaw, and Co. Crotty < 6.2), freshman Dave
Senior center Jerry Homan (6-7,
staved off a Warrior comeback Batton, and sophomore Toby 
OBSERVER
9.2) and junior forward Earleffort for a 69-63 victory. 
Knight <recovering from an ankle

Tatum (6-4,12.6) round out the 
injury> should all see action in the

Going into Saturday's contest, Warri?r front court. Tatum, who 
front court. Sophomore forward

Marquette is a slight favorite McGmre calls "the most talented ranked 12th in the nation with a 10-player I've ever coached," can Bill Paterno (14.0) willl start 
SPORTS 
2 record. The Irish, playing their also swing to guard duty. Junior across from Dantlt>y. eighth consecutive road game, Lloyd Walton (6-Q,15.0) and fresh­The game will be televised by bring a 7-5 mark. Pittsburgh has man Butch Lee (8.6) will start in WNDU (16) with the tipoff slated been the only common opponent, the backcourt. Lee, out of the for 1:00 p.m. EST. however, with the Warriors losing Bron~, was considered by many 65-58 earlier in the season and the fmest guard prospect in the •
Irish sw-1mmers face Canadians 
Notre Dame's swimmers, after Meanwhile, the Irish register a2-Notre Dame's swimmers return more than a month layoff, travel to 0 series mark against the home next Wednesday to face Ontario, Canada this weekend to University of Waterloo. The latest Oakland University in a dual meet face Western Ontario University meet in the series was held at at the Rockne Memorial Pool. The 
Fencers look to 
improve; start strong 
and the University of Waterloo. NotreDame on Dec. 1, 1973 with meet is slated to begin at 7:30p.m. sophomores Ed Fellows and Tim The Irish, 1-0 in dual meets, last Notre Dame coming out on top, 63-Admission is free and open to theIt may be difficult to improve on 
Glass. Fellows, who finished with competed on Dec. 10 against 43. public.
a 22-1 season mark, but the Notre 

a 36-10 record for a .783 percentage Northern Illinois University. InDame fencing team got off to a 
good start. Wednesday, in their last season, was named to the 1974 that meet at DeKalk, Ill., Notre 1 I
r----------------­
NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE
All-America team. Gl::~ss finished Dame's tankers posted an 84-54season opener, they downed In­
.... last year with a 33-10 mark as well victory. This victory combined
diana 23-4 and Johns Hopkins 20-7. 

as qualifying for the U.S. Olympic with a second place finish in the 
I AlDITICH 
I

Epee team. Notre Dame Invitational Relays,
For Irish coach Mike de Cicco the bout marked the beginning of In sabre, the Irish will depend gives the Irish one of their 1 for I 
stron~est starts ever.

his 14th season in the top spot. In heavily on junior Sam Difiglio, who I IVEIEA I 
the previous years his terns have finished 43-7 last year, and senior The Irish hold a 14-o career mark 
against Western Ontario. The two 1 Robinson Jeffers' adaptation I
Mike Progar (13-8). "Sam will be losses for an .880 mark while our only experienced man coming 1 Jan. 15 and Jan. 16 at 7:00p.m. 
amassed 219 victories against 30 

teams last met on Dec. 8, 1973 at producing eight All-Americans. back in sabre competition this Notre Dame, a 69-44 Irish triumph. 
<Callbacks--Jan. 17 at 7:00 p.m.) I
year," says DeCicco. "He finished Although the Irish sport IS a second in the Great Lakes Tour­leers at CC I O'Laughlin Auditorium I fairly balanced team their big nament in 1974 and we look for him I OPEN TO ALL ND AND SMC STUDENTS I
Coach Lefty Smith and his Notre

strength is foil. Anchoring this to have an even better season this 
Dame hockey team is in ski

weapon will be senior captain Tom year." 
country this weekend, but they'll

Coy <40-10 last year) and Terry to'ollowing their match Wed­
be doing their sliding on ice. The

McConville <39-12). They will be nesday, Notre Dame travels to ~----------------· 
Irish close an eight-game, month

hacked up by three freshmen who Penn State to face the Littany 
long road tripp with a pair of

have previous fencing experience Lions on the 17th. The following 
WCHA games against Colorado

including Mike McCahey, Bill Kica • day they play Navy while on College. Both games start at 8:00 1
r:~~~~~:~ ~~;~~;
and Pat Gerard. January 20th they fence Maryland 
p.m. <MSTl and will be broadcast

Pacing the epee squad will be at College park. 

.. 
PARAMOUIT PICTURES PRESIITS 
AN ALBERTS. RUDDY PRODUCTION 
'Af..llfll'll(o 
BURT REYNilDS '~.THE LONGEST YARD" 
COLOR Bv TECHNICOLOR • A PARAMOUNT PICTURE 
PHONE 288-8488 FOR TIMES & DIRECTIONS 
on WNDU radio 
~~~ 

ADULT THEATRES 2 FILMS
* 
·.· 

•••• * 
BOOKSTORE 
[ .·.· ~1;6s~~: :~~~:N5s~~: ·•• ~ 
!ll!cAL.L 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION!!! 
~;~;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::-:::~:~:·:~:·:·:~:~:~:~:·:~:~:~:~:;:~:~:::~:~:~:~::;.;:;.;::~~~: 
.... 





