
by Bob Mader Senior Staff Reporter 
Dr. James Roemer, the University's new dean of students, expressed his views on sexuality and alcohol regulations, campus security and his relationship with the students in an mterview yesterday. 
Hoerner called his position "the most challenging, yet the most satisfying" one he has held. 
''Very few people appreciate this job," he com­mented. "I've been in tough situations before as a lawyer, but there are greater human demands in this job." 
Hoerner said the human sexuality issue is "the most complex of the behavioral situations I've run into. 
He said the student manual affirms the belief that St'X outside marriage is not consistent with the traditions of the school. He pointed out that as a lawyer he feels the issue would be simplified if the regulation was more specific in its language. 
"That way the student would know what is ex­pected from him and what disciplinary action might result." he said. 
St•t•ks guidance on issues 
Sexuality is a complex part of the human struggle, Hoerner continued, and a way in which people come to understand themselves and others. He said he will ask for more detailed guidance on the matter from other University officials. 
Hoerner has not dealt with any specific cases, but when they arise he will treat them with sensitivity, he added. 
lie noted that he has five children, four of whom are in college, and that he's gained wisdom from his relationship with them. He and his wife, Mary Ann, have also been involved in pre-marriage counseling of {'ngaged couples on campus. 
Hegarding alcohol regulations, Roemer said he 
would rather have his own children drinking in their 
home than traveling to Michigan. Because of the 
drinking laws in Indiana, however, the University's 
policy concerning underage drinking on campus 
must be more restrictive than he would personally 
prefer. 
Hoerner explained that the current policy permits 
students to consume alcoholic beverages in their 
rooms, as long as they are not disorderly and do not 
disturb others. 
lie is asking hall rectors for feedback on a 
proposal which would give the dorms responsibility 
for monitoring the use of alcohol. A detailed report 
of his proposal was rinted in esterda 's Observer. 
Roemer said he has been approached by a lacrosse club member who wanted to have a fund­raising "keg party" in Stepan Center, and also by Student Body President Ed Byrne and his cabinet concerning a 21 bar in Stepan Center for the homecoming dance. He expressed reservations about the legality of both proposals and has not approved either of them. 
The dean has approved a request by the graduate students to hold a keg party behind Carroll Hall. He said every graduate student is over 21 and the students presented him with a detailed plan on how they would keep the party under control. 
Roemer said the Security Office reports directly to himand that the two offices plan to work closely together. He said he has not handled any rape cases this year but that there are "continuing things we can do about the situation.". 
The new dean said he has !dealt. with several cases of attempted shoplifting at the bookstore, and pointed out that shoplifting is treated as a misdemeanor off-campus. 
"If you got caught shoplifting in a K-Mart, you'd have to go to court," Roemer said. "We won't treat this as a minor violation." 
Roemer called the campus "one of the most unsafe places there is for a bike." He said he has not had time to formulate an official plan for improving security but recommended that bikes be left locked in well-traveled areas of the campus. 
Works with wife 
Roemer's wife, Mary Ann, was present throughout the interview. She has v orked ex­tensively in CILA and the World Hunge1 Coalition, as well as doing premarriage counseling with her husband. Roemer said he wants himself and his wife to be visible on campus as a married couple. "Most of the people with whom the students come into contact with are clergy or seen as individuals," he explained. 
The dean said most of the problems of his job are encountered during the day, with about ten percent of his time devoted to serious disciplinary matters. His evenings and weekends are spent informally talking with students and hall staffs, the aspect of his job which he enjoys most. 
Roemer said former dean of students John Macheca has discussed with him two or three disciplinary cases which are still pending from the previous school year. Macheca is handling these cases. Roemer reported. 

Darby's Place opened for business In the basement of LaFortune at midnight last night. Darby's, named after Fr. Griffin's cockerspaniel Darby O'Gill, provides a place where students can meet socially after midnight. 
Tom Daley, manager of Darby's, stressed this point: "We want to create an atmosphere that will allow people to socialize, but still be able to study." Darby's Place will be open from 12 to 4 a.m. Sunday through Thursday, and coffee and donuts will be available. 
Volunteers are needed to work at Darby's during the week. Anyone interested in helping should call Tom Daley at 8736. (Photo by Tom Lose) 
Coed housing reviewed 
Committee reviews housing problems 
Editor's Note: In October of 1974 
University maintain a Student relationships with students should a hall atmosphere.eight student leaders headed by Affairs staff among whom be encouraged to join the Student then-SBP Pat McLaughlin Catholics predominated, that Affairs staff. Coed Housingpresented a proposal for an in­preference be given to competent Implementation of these vestigation of undergraduate members of the Congregation of recommendations was based upon "A recent development in 
priorities to the Board of Trustees. Holy Cross, and that consideration the fact that rectors serve as life student housing that has found The Board accepted the proposal be given to ways of enhancing the models for many resideets of a favor at diverse campuses across and commissioned the tripartite intellectual role of the rectors. hall, but that most belong to the country is coeduca tiona! Committee on Undergraduate Life These recommendations played religious orders. In view of the residential halls. The reasons that to look Into academics, reslden· a major role in the COUL com­fact that many students do not brought this phenomenon into tiallty, coeducation, finances and Notre Dame. These topic areas mittees' own recommendations. choose religious life, the com­being are not readily apparentstudent affairs. were: Hall Staff, Academic The COUL committee cited that mittee felt that married persons although for each campus it 
In today's article, the second of a Programs Within the Hall, Coed the role of rector was so complex should be included in Notre usually entailed some combination five-part series. News Editor Ken Housing, Off-Campus Life, and demanding that the success of Dame's on-campus residential of the economic necessity of Girouard discusses the report of Students in the Off-Campus Notre Dame's tradition of population. Husband-and-wife making on-campus living more tht> Committee on Resldentlallty. Community, University Village, residentiality depended upon how teams could serve as life models attractive and a related factor of 
Off-Campus Ministry and well rectors fulfilled their and should be encouraged to join introducing change in an effort to 
The residentiality committee, Disciplinary Logic. positions. the Student Affairs program. improve the educational quality of like the other four-member Each topic area begins with The committee's recom· hall life." committees, COUL was divided general background on the area mendations stated, "Rectors, Academic Programs Within the With this statement, the com­
into, faced the problem of covering that was studied, followed by the therefore, as well as all other Hall mittee on residentiality began its a great deal of important ground in committee's recommendations members of the hall staffs, and report on coed housing. Before a small amount of time with and concluded with the im­Student Affairs program, need to The subcommittee reviewed presenting its recommendations, members who had many other plementation of the recom­be selected according to carefully three hall academic programs. the report provided a generalresponsibilities. mendations. defined criteria which detail as Within the halls studied, the overview of the topic. Citing
"We could have gone in depth Following are summaries of accurately as possible the ex­courses taught (Freshman statistics from studies of other more on each subject," Mary Ellen each topic area, the recom­pectations held of them." Seminars, Humanities and colleges which have made the Keenan, one of the student mendations and their im­'The report stressed that selec­Theology) were supported by decision to adopt mixed housing,members said, "but I think we did plementation. tion of Student Affairs personnel rectors and residents. As a result the report presented arguments 
a fairly extensive amount of "should be as rigorous as that of the subcommittee recommended which favored such a move. research and a pretty fair job. We Hall Staff the academic faculty." that the Administration should After these arguments, the had a list in the beginning of The report also noted that the encourage the growth of these in­committee responded to op­possible topics and narrowed it The residentiality committee performance of personnel should hall class styles. position to coed housing. In par­down, cutting out what was being began its report on hall staffs by be regularly evaluated through a The committee felt that the ticular, the report answered ob­considered by other committees." citing three recommendations process that included student intellectual role of the rector could jections that this type of housing 
The subcommittee broke down which the Committee on input. be expanded by the presentation of increased sexual promiscuity. It the main subject into nine basic University Priorities (COUP) had The final recommendaton said student interest courses, such as 
(continued on page 6)
topic areas of residential life at offered. These were that the educators who enjoyed special Yoga and Charismatic Renewal, in 
--------------------------~-------' 
r-----f~--~-­
I 
Tuesday, Sept~mber 9, 1975
2 the observer 
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON AP-Republicans ratified Kansas City, Mo.,l_ for tbeir 1976 nominating convention Monday and heard their national chairman proclaim that GOP prospects are on the upswing due to President Ford's "outstanding leadership." 
Chairman Mary Louise Smith also told the Republican National Committee that she hopes to raise more than $20 million to support GOP candidates in 1976 under provisions of the new campaign law that permits multi-candidate committees to supplement funds of individual office-seekers. 
CLEVELAND, Ohio AP-Ferro Corp. and the United Steel Workers announced ratification Monday night of a new contract agreement ending a week-long strike against two Ferro plants in Cleveland and Chicago.
Steel Workers District 28 Director Joseph Kender and Ferro Production Manager Ben Seifter said employees should start returning to their jobs at 8 a.m. Tuesday. 
BEIRUT, Lebanon AP-A private army of 3,000 leftist and Moslem' militiamen fought to encircle a Christian village Monday as savage sectarian fighting spread into the northern Lebanese hills. 
Street battles and mortar bombardments also raged through the day in Tripoli, 50 miles north of Beirut, cutting telephone com-· munications for part of the day, interrupting water supplies and causing dozens more casualties, police said. At least 19 persons 
were killed Sunday. 
·'lEW YORKAP-New York City teachers voted Monday night to strike the nation's largest school system as strikes in a dozen states kept more than three-quarters of a million students out of classes. About 1.1 million pupils in New York City's 980 schools would be idled by a strike of the 65,000 public school teachers. The strik~ was scheduled to begin Tuesday, the second day of the fall term, m the financially troubled city. 
·an campus t:aday 
4:30pm-seminar, "fate of the standard oil re-entry into the water column from a contaminated beach: five years after the arrow disaster", by dr. john h. vandermeulen, galvin life science center auditorium. 7:30pm--meeting, charismatic prayer meeting, Iafortune student center. 7:30pm--meeting, faculty senate, rm. 202, cce. 8pm--fiha. "casablanca", o-laughlin aud., $1. 
ABC proposes ban on liquor price ads 
INDiANAPOhiS (AP) Publication of price advertise­ments in liquor stores or other outlets would be prohibited un­der a regulation proposed bythe Indiana Alcoholic Beverage Commission. 
The commission also aims to restrict the total sales of alco­holic beverages by drugstores and grocery stores, as well as police gambling and prostitu­tion on permit premises. Under proposed regulations, to~less dancers would be perm1tted, while topless waitresses would be prohibited. 
ABC Chairman James D. Sims called these proposals, "just a reflection of the think­ing of the commission," adding the official procedure necessary to make them effective has not been initiated. 
Current proposals would change 21 of the commission'~ 39 regulations. . 
The proposed advertisement regulation would ban price pub­lication such that the consumer would think he could obtain re­duced prices, bargains, dis­counts, cut rates, per cent re­duction, or any other language with that meaning, Sims said. 
"We believe the law calls for 
temperance and we do not want 
anybody to be enticed through 
insinuations of bargain prices 
to ourchase alcoholic bever­ages~" said Sims. 
The ABC currently bans price advertisement in the media, but allows signs in liquor stores announcing special sales and discounts. 
Grocery and drugstore alco­holic beverage sales would be restricted to 15 per cent of their gross sales under the proposed regulations. 
"If they are going to be a drug or a grocery store then let them be that and not a liquor store," the ABC head main­tained. 
I 
In addition, drugstores would not be permitted to display al­coholic beverages in a space larger than the prescription counter. Sims said the area would have to be walled and a special, licensed clerk or phar­macist would be the only per­son allowed to make sales. 
I 
In grocery stores the liquor display area could be no more than that used for soft drinks. 
Sims maintained the ABC has the power to restrict liquor sales in non-liquor stores, al­though that power is not specif­ically authorized by law. 
The proposed rules would "equalize" the competition be­tween the drugstore and gro­cery stores and taverns and li­quor stores, Sims sai~. 
• 1111wo &z•• 
IIIDIAII JEWELRY 
•CUSTOM 
SILVERWORI 
• SILYEIIUDS 
• HE$HI • OPALS 
• F•E AGATES "Mill Y111 Own loa" 
Earthquake hits Turkey 
LICE, Turkey <AP) -Res­cue teams worked their way into remote villages of eastern Turkey on Sunday in search of survivors of an earthquake that officials said killed at least 1,­500 persons. It was feared the toll could be higher. 
Premier Suleyman Demirel flew to the provincial capital of Diyarbakir and pledged, "No 
one  will  be  left  starving  or  
homeless."  
Officials  said  continuing  

tremors, though comparatively 
small, were keeping survivors in a state of panic and ham­pering efforts to find the in­jured and to unearth bodies. 
The earthquake, which meas­ured 6.8 on the Richter scale, was felt at noon Saturday along the quake-prone Anatolian Fault in eastern and south-
Annual Senior picnic scheduled for this Friday 
The annual Senior Class Picnic will be held Friday, September 12, from 4 to 8 p.m. at the Saint Mary's Clubhouse located near Holy Cross Hall on the Saint Mary's campus. 
Beer, hot cfogs and desserts will be sold at the picnic. Senior identification cards will be required to attend the affair. 
The afternoon's activities will include softball, volleyball, races, and jello and egg toss com­petitions. Prizes will be awarded 
· to the winners of these games. 
Music will be provided late in the 
afternoon by "Smith and Com­
pany."
Those who drive to the picnic should use the main parking areas. 
The Observer Is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 10 dollars per semester (18 1 dollars per year) from The Ob­server. Box Q, Notre Dame, In­diana, 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
eastern Turkey, and some Black Sea provinces. It toppled · buildings and set off fires and llftershocks. 
The Richter Scale is a meas­ure of ground motion as record­ed on seismographs. A reading of 6 indicates a severe quake and a 7 means a quake capable of causing widespread, heavy damage.
The semiofficial Anatolia News Agency quoted provincial officials as saying more than 500 persons lost their lives in Lice, a town of 8,000 in Di­yarbakir province, the quake's epicenter. The agency said more than 1,000 other people were believed dead in sur­rounding villages. 
The Red Crescent Society, Turkey's Red Cross, said 17 tons of relief material -blood, food and antibiotics -had been rushed to Lice in military planes. It said two mobile hos­pitals had been set up in the town to care for those too badly hurt to be moved to the state hospital in Diyarbakir. 
Reports Saturday put the number of dead at 1,000, but of­ficials predicted Sunday it would go beyond the 1,500 mark as civilian and military rescue teams cleared paths into dis­tant villages where the extent of casualties was not known. Red Crescent officials said they might have to seek help from 
the International Red Cross. 
In mourning for the victims, Turkish state radio canceled its scheduled programs and playedonly classical music. 
The Anatolian Fault runs crescent-shaped from Turkey's Aegean seacoast northeast along the Black Sea coast, then south into the rugged eastern mountains. 
A 1939 earthquake killed 30,­000 people in the eastern prov­ince of Erzincan. A 1966 quake at Varto, not far from Lice, took 2,964 lives. 
CAPRI LIQUOR STORE 
At the corner of ~ronwood and Edison (Rear of 
Co 
TD 
...,.~OUTPOST~lit ce1ltt."­
AT100CENTER-NUSHA~A 
·OPEN TILL 9:00 DAILY 
WELCOME BACK NOTRE DAME STUDENTS STOP BY INDIANA'S FINEST OUTFITTING STORE 
SPECIALIZING IN Backpacking 
Kayaking
Canoeing.CnlSS-cbUfttry skiin& Downhill skiing 

--~------------~---------~ 
Tuesday, September 9, 1975 the observer 
------------~~~~~~-------=­
New dean interviewed 
Changes •
lD Business College discussed 
by Christie lll'rlihy Starr Reporter 
The College of Business Ad­
ministration ·will focus on 
discovering new teaching methods 
to effectively cope with increased 
enrollment, said the college's new 
Dean, Brother Leo V. Ryan. 
Faced with 1,529 business 
majors fiercely competing at 
registration for seats in already 
overcrowded classrooms, the 
college is bent on handling this 
year's 7'~ percent student in­
crease. 
"We have increased the sections 
of the courses offered and are 
using all classrooms to capacity," 
Hyan :affirmed. "We need to 
examine. new methods, technology, 
and approaches which will help us 
cope with increased class sizes." 
Appointed last April to succeed 
acting dean Dr. Yusaku 
l<'uruhashi, Ryan was a former 
national president of the Catholic 
Business Education Association, 
and a member of the board of 
directors of the Alpha Kappa Psi 
foundation for research in business 
and business leadership. 
He outlined his plans for ex­
pansion. 
Although presently occupying the Hurty and Hayes-Healy buildings, Ryan forsees that the · business college will "be moving outside these buildings for more space." Seven new faculty members joined the staff this year and three left. Asked if the college planned to expand the staff fur­ther. Hyan emphasized the need 
for teaching quality. 
"In our given set of cir­
cumstances there is an obvious 
need for additional faculty but numbers are not the answer," the new Dean said. "We must examine the curriculum and analyze whether we are effectively using what we already have." 
Impressed with the faculty, Ryan remarked about the ac­cessibility of the faculty to their students which he termed "the hallmark of this college and of this university." "But such ac­cessibility," he continued, "has been paid at the price of the faculty's own professional growth and development." 
He emphasized that the strength of any college is in its faculty. Asked whether he foresaw a decline in such close contact between student and professor because of increased enrollment, Hyan siad it will just mean more work for some of those already overloaded. 
No change in proceedings have been instituted this fall as classes were drawn up in the spring and Ryan only recently appointed. During the course of this year, however, Ryan hopes to be able to explore some new ideas. 
He mentioned that the faculty held a mid-year seminar to discuss the use of the case analysis method, similar to that used in law schools, in business classes. "The question is whether this method is still feasible and effective in the 
effectiveness of g1vmg students 
increased access to computers." 
Ryan hopes to combine 
"technology with the good 
teaching that goes on here." 
A standing faculty committee 
recently formed last year is now 
responsible for researching these 
teaching methods. Not only will 
the committee schedule faculty 
seminars which will introduce 
university professors to experts 
visiting the campus, but it will also 
examine opportunities for more 
faculty research. 
Ryan also plans to reorganize 
the college's committees, to in­
termingle the faculty of various 
departments when assigning 
issues rather than dealing with 
individual departments. This he 
hopes will bring a well-rounded 
perception to the problem at hand. 
Ryan, former dorector of the 
Peace Corps in Western 
Nigeria,sees his new job as dean as 
"facilitating a climate where we · are preparing our students for a career rather than for a first job." He emphasized the need to teach the art of learning rather than technical information which will 
be out of date in a few years. 
"More and more students are 
leaning towards the practical 
arts," Ryan continued, "to better 
prepare themselves for a job, and 
business education provides that 
large classroom situation where a I security." He warned that 
lecture format seems necessary," Hyan said. 
Ryan, the former assistant dean of the business college of Marquette University, will also investigate the increased use of audio-visual materials. "We will be examining visual equipment to supplement instruction, and the 
N.D. Faculty Senate to hold first :meeting 
by Maureen Flynn synopses of two sample contracts 
Senior Starr Reporter from other colleges," Conway 
The Faculty Senate will hold its noted. He said the report may first meeting of the academic year result in a motion for informed at 7:30 tonight in the Center for speakers on the subject. Continuing Education. The committees on grade in-
According to Senate Chairman flation and faculty evaluations will 
Paul Conway, this evening's present regular progress reports agenda will include reports from tonight, the chairman stated. senate committees on retired A special committee's report on 
faculty, collective bargaining, the Committee for Appointments
grade inflation, and faculty and Promotions (CAP), passed by evaluations. the senate last spring, will come up
The reports on retired faculty for considert:tion by the Academic 
and collective bargaining will be Council when it meets this fall, final reports, Conway stated, and Conway noted. willbesubmittedtothefullfaculty "The report is quite detailed,"
if approved by the senate. Conway said. "It recommends 
"An extensive questionnaire was changes in the procedures for sent to retired faculty members appointments and promotions this summer,".Conway explained, outlined in the Academic Manual." 
"to obtain information on their Conway said the special com-finances, their adjustment to mittee's report on CAP was drawn retired life, their needs, and their up in response to opinion expressed 
relationship with Notre Dame." in the faculty referendum last "From these questionnaires, tt\e spring.
committee has compiled a The results of a faculty statistical report to present to the evaluation of the office of provost senate for approval," Conway also conducted at that time have continued. "The report includes been compiled by two sP..nior 
recommendations to the univer-faculty members, Conway ststoo.
sity." They will be presented to a cc•n­"The report on collective mittee still to be appointed by 
bargaining does not include any University President Fr. Theodore 1 recommendations," Conway Hesburgh. I stated. He said the report is a The senate will use the faculty 
response to the faculty referendum referendum as a guideline for Iconducted last spring, in which finishing last year's business, II fifty per cent of the faculty Conway said. The senate will also I students tend to put undue focus on 
S.U. plans 
(continued from page 5) 
under the direction of Dennis Pijor, will "focus on the area of the Bicentennial and the 1976 political arena," stated Birsic. The com­mission has also introduced the idea of an energy festival to be modeled on the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
The Student Union has not yet compiled a schedule of concerts for the fall semester. 
"Concert scheduling is such a highly uncertain business that you have to let the ink fully dry on a contract before any an­nouncements are made," ex­plained Birsic. "If things go as we expect, we could present one of the best concert schecdules in the past 
few years. A coimplete schedule will be released later this week or 
early next week." The Student Union has also taken 
tighter control of the clubs allowed to show movies. Last year, the Student Union decided that the number of clubs on campus was 
too many· To alleviate this, it evaluated each club in its nature and purpose of the club, alter­
native opportunities for fund 

and Acting Dean Dr. Furuhashi the pressure of providing an 
their first job. ''The college feels 
held the job until Ryan's ap­education bent on technical im­
pointment a year later. Ryan is mediacy and long range career 
looking forward to attending possibilities." various seminars this year, one Administrative leadership has 
being a nationwide gathering of new business deans which willbeen difficult in the recent past because of lack of continuity. 
reflect onthe enrollment pressures Dean Murphy resigned in May 1974 
affecting other business schools.
. 
ND-SMC THEATER TRYOUTS FOR 
INDIANS 
BY ARTHUR KOPIT 
MON. SEPT. 8th & TUES. SEPT. 9th 7-10 pm CAllBACKS WED. SEPT. 1Oth 7 pm 
WASHINGTON HALL LAB THEATER <u11e iron stairs in back) OPEN TO ALL ND & SMC STUDENTS 
TONIGHT 
JUGGLER MEETING 
MEETING FOR ANYONE INTERESTED IN WORKING ON THE EDITORIAl OR PRODUCTION STAFF OF THE JUGGLER AT 7.·30 IN THE JUGGLER 
OFFICE lOCATED ON THE 3rrl
FlOOR OF lAFORTU N E HAll. 
raisin!!: and orevious film dates.............;;&iiiil!;ll:iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimi::;;";;';;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;!'i
....
I --------------.
------------= 
I
1
I
I I
I 
1 
I
ATTE N T I 0 N 
1
1 
I
F R E sH M E N I 
I
I 
1
1 
S I G N -Up M E E T I N G FQ R I I 
II 
~~~~~~i~~~ req~~sted c~l~~~ti~~ '::i~~!ne o~he J~re~!r~~u~t~ 9:~~ F.RESHMAN COLL0 Q UIUMI
bargammg. <COUL) to determme what areas "The report does include might call for. action. I 
************************************ I 
£ Kathy and the Gang at !1 TUESDAY 7:30 P.M. RM. 104 O'SHAG! iSEAFOOD SHAK!i I 
• of ~· IF YOU MISSED US AT I ~ Randolph,s~w Jersey !I REGISTRATION -IT'S STILL ! 
l..~~..~~!~.!~..:~!~.J L---------~~~-~~~!-~-~!.!._______ 
AI  ~~~~~ver Founded November 3, 1966 Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Manager EDrrORIAL BOARD Rutherford. Managing Editor; Fred Graver. Executive Editor'; Jim Eder. Editorial Editor Km Girouard. News Editor; Pat ;;anifin, Campus Editor; Mary Janca. St. Mary's E dilor K•·n Hradford. Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; TomO'Neil, Features Editor lhr~s Smith, Photo Editor Editori•ls: lBl-3661 N~woc 2~83~·1.!.71:.!5-~-~B::,u•::,:in;;,••::."~l::.Bl:...·l;_:4.:..;71~-------l Tuesday, September 9, 1975  

Welcome, Enthusiasm 
When Dr. John M. Duggan arrived on the SL. Mary's campus to assume the duties of College President this fall, he brought with him something that is in­dispensable for the growth and main­tenance of any institution, yet something that St. Mary's College has not ex­perienced for the past few years. That something is enthusiasm, and it was clearly in evidence Sunday during his inaugural ceremoney. 
In his address Duggan channelled that enthusiasm into an idealistic . appraisal 
of  SL.  Mary's  as  a  small,  Catholic,  
women's  liberal  arts  college.  This  
assessment  is  vital,  and  deserves  

repeating; the St. Mary's community must first see where it is in order to look toward where it is going. 
St. Mary's is a small college, intending to remain so, and according to Duggan, "it should be better able than a large university to know in intimate detail what it does, to monitor itself, to adjust as necessary, to preserve the substance and to enhance the joy of exploration of mind and spirit." 
Because of its Catholicity, St. Mary's has "a special mission" to develop in its students Christian values and ideals, as well as "Catholic educational and cultural traditions." 
As a women's college, St. Mary's provides "the opportunity to study without shame, to seek knowledge without apology." 
Finally, in defense of St. Mary's as a liberal arts college, Duggan stated that it "must teach its students to use their minds creatively, clearly, consistently, and cogently," as it offers "an op­portunity for wisdom, for education rather than training." 
As his hopeful address indicates, Duggan symbolizes a new input of ideas and a fresh, bright perspective on the issues facing the College. He is in the position to offer some much-needed stability to a school which has seen three permanent and two interim presidents within the past five years. 
The future of SL. Mary's seems to rest on Duggan, but not entirely so. As president he serves as a catalyst, ac­celerating the initiation of new policies and programs of the College. Yet without the necessary regents of reciprocal input and support from the students, faculty, administration and Board of Regents, his energies will be useless. 
Duggan noted in his address that the commendable qualities of "civility, openness and unpretentiousness" which prevail at St. Mary's need not"encourage a certain passivity, a lack of serious questionning of the status quo, a with­drawal from the introspective and often painful processes which characterized intellectual growth." 
Dr. Duggan has assumed his duties as president in the midst of a year of growth for SL. Mary's...The College is currently being introduced to the largest freshman class in its history, and is seeking the remaining funds necessary to construct a new athletics complex. Meanwhile, the Nursing Department, itself only two years old, has moved to larger facilities in the Campus School. Along with this expansion, will come growing pains, which the College community must overcome together. 
In this, his freshman year and in his successive years at St. Mary's, let all of the SMC community offer cooperation to its new president. Welcome, Dr. Duggan, and welcome to your enthusiasm. 
sinr:~alanr:~ junk 
Groups And Things 
jae r:Jill 
Sometimes, a small, seemingly unimportant event can change your outlook on life. 
I've met many different people in my life, and in the same vein, encountered many different situations. Many of these are in­congruous, unrelated, common only to my life, my position. Others though, have a certain applicability to each of us; we may all remember or share in these common experiences. 
Adolescence is one of them. Unless you're Peter Pan or Ronnie (Happy Days) Howard, you will grow up. 
Adolescence brought with it special problems and also special benefits. It was a time when Mary (the girl three doors down) became a little more than a good-fielding, hard-hitting shortstop. It was a time when the last line of "America the Beautiful" was just a little bit harder to sing, and when the smallest fragment of hair below the nose was termed "a mustache!". It was a time of masculine snickers and feminine giggles, of after-shave and perfume <both in overdose), of jockstraps and brassieres, of laughter and (naturally) of tears ... 
It was also difficult and confusing. 
The direction that our lives took was frequently an unconscious one. We sensed, rather than evaluated, who our friends would be. We strived, in a sense, for security, for people to listen to us and to laugh at our jokes. We searched for our niche, our place in this disoriented society. 
We still do. Many of us found this "place", found these friends, found our "clique". When we did, life was suddenly great. We sat together at lunch, went to the same classes, met before and after school. We were, to ourselves, the group, the only group. 
There were others, though, who never found (or maybe never wanted to find) their group. They sat alone in study, ate alone at lunch, walked quietly, inconspicuously, alone ... 
We scorned these people. To us, they were nothing more than fair game for our biting bullets of sarcasm and mockery. Hunting them was always "in season". 
Days with our group were always great. We all used to sit around at a table and talk. Johnny Carson, the local sports scene, last night's homework, girls ... anything and everything were discussed and debated. We also enjoyed a game which I'll call a "cut-down contest". It consisted of taking those who weren't part of our group and verbally assassinating them. We harassed, mocked, and generally ragged on all these creatures. It was great fun ... 
One day still stands out in my mind. We were, as usual, sitting around conversing when "he" walked in. "He" was Pat. His voice hadn't changed, his skin was milky-white and smooth, and he had dimples. He was also brilliant, and we hated him. He quietly walked in, set his books down, and sat at out table. 
Immediately, the "cut-down contest" began. We mocked out his clothes, his voice, his entire mannerism, Invariably, the jabs at his relatives came <your mother wears army booots was extremely kind! l. Anyway, I was especially enjoying myself, and I chimed in with a rather severe crack about his father's masculinity. As I finished saying it, a strange, eerie silence (which to this day I can't explain) came over the room. He raised his head and looked at me and said (perhaps a bit too quietly), "My father is dead." 
From then on, I ragged no one. 
All letters to the editor should be sent to The Observer, Editorial Editor, Post Offfice Box Q or brought to the office of The Observer located on the top floor of the LAFortune Student 
Center. 
Only letters with names and addresses will be considered for print. Signatures will be withhelld upon request, but signed letters will be given priority. 
All letters are subject to editing for length and taste, and should be concise as· possible. 
the observer 
Night Editor --Maggie Waltman Assistant Night Editor --Gregg B. Bangs Layout Staff .. Jim Winters, Martha Fanning, AI Rutherford Day Editor ·-Don Reimer Copy Readers --Kathy Mills, Ken Bradford Editorials .. Jim Eder, John Amantea Sports -· Bill Brink Typists --Nell VIII, Mary Tobin, Camille Arrleh, Terl Harlan Compugraphic .. Maurice Blinder 
Ad Layout --Tom (no scruples) Whelan Night Controller -· David Rust 
OOONESBURY 
ITHINKH& ANT!OPATfJ) YOU SIR.. YOU'VE /JaN 
IUHAT?!
l!ST£3{) IN TH& 
0811 COL./JMN. 
I
I 
II4Ck tf..RITfl<,
PR£Sl/ME/l CAt/.. TH& WAf AT45..." 
Allm: 
~~~~~~;:rJ l! 
by Garry Trudeau 
Y&S,S/R.. 
YOUR. Ft16HT 
UAVESAT 8=30. 
\ 
0 
o· 
0 
0 
• 
:• 
.• 
10
.. 
lo 
;0 
-----------------~~---­

~ 
Tue11day, September 9, 1975 
the observer 
5 
Directed by Birsic 
I ----------­
S.U. reveals'75-'76 plans 1 STILL COMING! 
by Lonnie Luna Staff Reporter 
The restructured Student Uriion will attempt to make use of its new system this year as it announces its plans for the 1975-1976 school year under the direction of Tom Birsic, Student Union director. 
"Last year the Student Union ran into problems with the separate commissions functioning too autonomously. This year we hope to provide more direction and coordination from the top," stated Birsic. 
As a result of last year's financial deficit, the Student Union underwent vast financial resturcturing beginning last May and extending through the sum­mer, explained Birsic. 
"Under the new system, we will be able to record all that is spent", said Birsic. 
The Student Union officers are also trying to establish lines of communication and responsibility within the Student Union structure. This type of organization facilitates clear and efficient channels of action. added Birsic. 
"We are determined to keep Student Union open to every student who has a desire to get involved. In fact, we badly need personnel. One of our biggest problems right now is that of being understaffed. We encourage people to stop by on Activities Night," stated Assistant Director Jamie Cain. 
The Student Union has also announced tentative plans for this semester. The Cultural Arts Commission, under the direction of Chris Mahon, has arranged the followin~ schedule of movies. 
Sept.  19-20  Chinatown  
Sept. Oct.  23-24 9-10  Stagecoach The Conversation  
Oct.  14-15  M  
Oct.  19-23  Ingmar Bergman Film Festival  
Oct.  28-29  King of Hearts  
Nov.  4-5  The Servant  
Nov.  11-12  All Quiet on the Western Front  
Nov.  21-22  The Parallax View  
Dec.  2-3  Lost Horizon  

The Student Union will again sell patron cards for $5. The purchase of a patron card entitles the bearer to see all the above films with no further charge. The season pass schedule begins with Chinatown. 
Other plans include the Midwest Blues Festival, scheduled for Nov. 14 and 15. 
The Social Commission, headed by Kathy Smouse and Charlie Moran, are preparing for Homecoming, the weekend of the USC football game, Oct. 24 and 25. Homecoming Chairman Dave Shaheen and the commissioners have begun to search for a location for the Homecoming Dance slated for Friday. Oct. 24 
The Social Commission will again offer a ticket package consisting of a combination of football, concert and dance tickets. Also, due to popular demand, the Social Commission will again sponsor the Quickie Shuttle to the Michigan bars. 
Services Commission, under Casey Nolan, has been renting and distributing refrigerators, com­piling the Freshman Register, selling unpainted furniture and operating Student Union Book Exchange in LaFortune. 
"The Services Commission has the majority of its work during the first two weeks of school, which makes things quite hectic," ex­plained Birsic. 
The Services Commission will 
again sell theater packages soon. 1 1
The Academic Commission, 
1
(continued on page 3) I 1 
I ---------------·
HAWAIIAN IIIGHT IIMSOAY $3.45 
Boar's Head brings the Islands to you. At less than Island prices! Delicious Hawaiian chicken dinner Is only $3.45 per person plus tax. Includes Tropical fruit salad, wild rice, and sweet and sour sauce. Also: Boar's Head Salad Bar, hot bread, Ice cream or sherbet, and coffee, tea, or milk. All for only $3.45 We're doing the whole place Hawaiian on Tuesday. Aloha. 
BOAR'S HEAD® 
RESTAURANTS 
52885 U.S. 31 North in South Bend 
JN MIND 

I CENTIMETERS OF PIZZA I T H E BAcK Doo R 
• 
-~---------­
I I 
Coed.off-carnpus housing reviewed by C.O.U.L. 
I 
the observer Tuesday, September 9, 1975
6 
I (continued /rom page I) 
because Keenan and Stanford are should become more involved in befieved that there were many other students in their area.
I 
I stressed that however logicallthis separate and complete halls the Northeast neighborhood. positive aspects. Also proposed was an off­
fear may seem on the surface, it connected by common areas, the "We feel that the University does "Off-campus living is a campus ombudsman service.I has not been substantiated in fact. coversion to a coed residence have a responsibility to the neigh­challenge, one we all have to face
I "The available data on this center could be accomplished with borhood, both to regular residents after graduation, and it can beI subject led to the conclusion that no physical changes. and student residents. The Nor­extrememly rewarding and Other Topic Areas
I sexual activity in coeducational theast neighborhood is an older, ·educative when shared with 
I residences may well have Off-Campus Life integrated neighborhood which is others,;' the report stated. There were other topic areas I decreased when compared to that strugggling for stability. Student It pointed out, however, that the which the COUL subcommittee I which occurs in sex-segregated Concerning off-campus life, the pressure on housing drives rent up, impetus for sharing was not being studied. One topic area involved a I halls," the report noted. committee recognized the fact that as well as causing conversion of generated by the students or their detailed listing of physical im­The recommendation of the a significant minority of students family housing. Students can be a neighbors. provements to the University
I 
committee on this topic area was will have to live off campus in the of great value to the neighborhood, As \1 result, the committee Village facility for married
I 
as follows: "That the Office of future. As a result, the committee but they need University support. recommended that the students students. The report called for
I 
Student Affairs be instructed to stressed that the University had a We f£:el that a joint student-trustee and South Bend residents should be more attention to be focused on the
I 
begin the necessary planning responsibility to the neighborhood committee on Neighborhood working together to solve common facility by the University. Im­
I 
starting with the 1975-76 academic near the campus. development would be of great problems such as crime, zoning provements ranged from struc­
l 
year so as to implement a The recommendations which the advantage." · and community relations. tural (storage spaces, repair of
I 
coeducational student living report presented urged that the The report went on to say that As a meansof implementing this heating), to environmental (lack ofI program." University fulfill as quickly as such a committee of trustees could cooperation, the report stated that shade trees on property l, toI In regard to the implementation possible the graduate student handle many problems, including the heads of neighborhood groups community group insurances rates I of this program, the committee housing commitment it made when the driving up of rents, police such as Harter Heights and the and athletic facilities. I recommended that the Keenan­Lewis Hall was converted to an protection, zoning, and private Northeast Neighborhood could be l Stanford complex be designed as undergraduate residence. The apartment construction. sent a mailing list of students Off-campus ministry was in­I coeducational halls. resulting increase in beds on· living in their area so they can vestigated. The report proposed I The committee noted that campus would lessen the problem Stude~ts Off-Campus notify the students of meetings in that resident chaplains be placed I Keenan and Stanford house ap­of students being forced off the neighborhood. in the Notre Dame apartments and I proximately the same number of campus, as well as decrease the The committee also recom­campus View. It also called for the I students (Stanford 285, Keenan demand for housing in the Nor-The residentiality committee mended that a separate increased involvement of Campus 
301) and would provide equal size theast neighborhood., pointed out that while many people alphabetical listing by street name Ministry with local parishes and
I 
in male and female populations. Another recommendation in this think of life off campus as being could be drawn up for off-campus neighborhood centers to reach the
I 
I 
I 
! I I 
~ ~ 
! 
Also ointed twas the fact that area was that the Universit , un leasant the committee students to enable them t of-campus student o ulation. 
For expert calculations, count on these Texas Instruments 
Scientific calculators especially for you engineering stu­dents . anyone! ... with the need of a machine with the ex­pertise to solve the most complex problems. All lightweight portables. All with AC adapter/charger. 
The New SR51A 149.95 
It's programmed for engineering conversions! The full-function scientific calculator you've been waiting for­
• Performs all th.e classical slide-rule functions plus linear re­gression, mean, variance and standard deviation 
Q 
Features algebraic keyboard with dual function keys that in­crease the power without increasing the size 
• 
Has bright 14-character display-display provides overflow, underflow, error indications 

• 
Three user accessible memories permit storage, recall, sum, product operation 

• 
Plus many, many more features which are new and unique to this machine SR51A 


(Not Shown) The SR50A, 99.95 A pride of Texas Instruments provides all the classical slide rule functions-simple arithmetic, reciprocals, factorials, expotentiation, roots, trigonometrics and logarithmic functions, all in free floating decimal point or scien­tific notation. 14-Character display 
The SR16 69.95 
A multi-function scientific slide-rule calculator­
• 
Solves simple arithmetic as well as complex technical problems 

• 
Includes keys for expanded calculating capabilities 

• 
Displays numbers in full floating decimal point or scientific notation 

• 
And much, much morel For so economical a price' 


Business Machines, Mall Level 
SR16 

.----------------------.-------------------------------------------------------------------------~----~~-----~-----­
,• 
i 
Tuesday, September 9, 1975 the observer 7 
GallenassumesMurphy Center directorship 
Rev. John J. Gallen, S.J ., former associate professor of pastoral theology at Woodstock College in New York, has assumed direc­torship of the Murphy Center for Liturgical Research at the University of Notre Dame. 
Father Gallen, the first president of the newly formed North American Academy of Liturgy, succeeds Rev. James D. Shaughnessy, a Peoria, Ill., diocesan priest and former head of the Federation of Diocesan Liturgical Commissions. Father Shaughnessy, who has headed the Center since its establishment in 1971 by a gift of Mr. and Mrs. George J. Murphy of Wilmette, Ill., will continue as director of the board of the Center. He has returned to parish work in the Peoria diocese. 
Father Gallen did his un­dergraduate work at Fordham' University in New York City and was ordained in the Society of Jesus in 1963, a year before receiving his licentiate in sacred theology from Woodstock College, 
Roemer speaks 
Dean of Students James A. Roemer and his wife will be present at an open discussion in the Howard Hall chapel tomorrow night at 6:30p.m. All students are invited to attend this session. 
S.U. Commission planning events 
Social Commissioners Kathy Smouse and Charlie Moran revealed to hall representatives plans to avoid conflicts in Notre Dame social life at last night's meeting of the Student Union Social Commission. 
"We are going to try and give a new outlook on social life," stated Moran. "Instead of having five events on Friday Night, we will spread them out for your benefit." 
The commission is planning to work on the premises that the campus cannot finance two big events, and that the halls must work together in planning and coordinating their events. The fact that each hall must call in to the commission to inform them of their events will help prevent conflicts. In this way the com­mission can decide whether or not it is feasible to plan this activity for this night. 
As Kathy Smouse said, "We can 
advise you whether or not it has a 
chance to work, but we can't stop 
you from planning it anyway. It all 
depends upon how smoothly you 
would like campus social life to 
run." 
The commission will work 
through the Ombudsman by in­
forming that organization of all 
information regarding upcoming 
social events. The Ombudsman 
can then inform students of cost, 
time and place of all social ac­
tivities. There will also be posters 
and bulletin boards around 
campus and in LaFortune. 
Moran concluded, "Hopefully, 
people will stop saying there's 
never anything to do." 
THE 
RESUME PLACE 
25 8 1/2 X 11 
RAG BOND 
Only $2.55 insly·prints! 
203 N. MAIN SO.BEND, IND 
289-6977 
Woodstock, Md. He did graduate designated by the Amencan 
work at Trier University in Ger­bishops to do liturgical research, many, receiving his doctorate in and Father Gallen said its current sacred theology in the field of task is the cultural adaptation of liturgy in 1967. In addition to the newly revised books of Roman Woodstock, he taught at Weston lit.urgy. "Essential to the cultural College as well as Saint John's 
adaptation project," FatherGallen <Collegeville) and Princeton. 
noted, " is the pastoral task ofUniversities. He has edited two providing explanation and un­books, "Scripture Services" in 1963 derstanding of everything con­and"eucharistic Liturgies" in 1969. 
tained in the recently revisedNotre Dame's Murphy Center is books of Roman liturgy. We need one of four centers officially 
to master, ~n b~th 
theory(theology) and practice·, the contents and spirit' ot these revisions. To do so is an ,essential and non-dispensable element in any hope to provide for cultural adaptation." 
In his four years as Center director, Father Shaughnessy developed it as a point of contact and exchange between diocesan directors of liturgy and scholars in the field, principally through an annual symposium as well as 
NOTICES 
P1ullus of MBA vs Nickle of Nickle's. Four Nlckle-Burgers (2 lbs.) In One Hour. Thursdly, 9-11-75. (Be There-8:30 
pml. 
Free Puppies. Call after 3 p.m. 272· 2520. 
The Ombudsman Service Is now open for your questions, com. plaints, or problems. Call 7638. 
"But you've got to have friends" 1ntormatlon write Gay Students of Notre Dame, P.O. Box 206, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Anyone wishing to loin 11 com. mlttee to make the campus ac. cesslble to physlcelly disabled students please call Jill 289·~12 or Mary 283·8019. 
FOR RENT Nice room for 1 N.D. greduate student. 278·1997. 
2 bedroom apartmment or In· dlvlduel rooms for rent. Close to cempus. Furnished. $135 and $65. Ufllltles Included 233·2613. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Room for girl. Close to N.D. Kitchen privileges. Swimming pool. $15 week. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. 
Furnished apartment. 503 W. Jefferson. Duplex 3 rooms floor. Gas Heat. Furnished. 289·6307, 234· 
059(>. 
Near N.D. furnished small house and kitchenette apt. (Couple). 272· 6174. 
Whole upstairs fl. $50 mo. Girls only. 283·7579, 233·1329. 
LOST & FOUND 
Whoever found black ring on LaFortune plano: PLEASE retorn to Sharon Garvey, 224 Walsh . no questions asked . No monetary value, but be• longed to my mother. 
Found: Girl's watch found Saturday night on sidewalk near Towers. Call 88«. 
WANTED 
Need one used bicycle. Call 7471 or 288·4217. 
Wanted: 2 Boston College tickets. Call John 8433 . 
Need B.C. tickets. Mike 1905 after 11 p.m. 
Need 2 Purdue Tlx's. Call Mike 8106. 
Need riders to St. Louis Sept. 12·U. Call Chris 1243. 
Need couch and.or carpet. Call Brent or Mike, 39 Pangborn 8318. 
Need extra cash? Full or partlme help wanted. Call 287·6613 tor Info. 
Need one housemete. Excellent condition, newly remOdeled. $75 per month Incl. utilities. Phone 287· 3463. 
Need 2 general admission So. Cal. tlx. Mary 6680. 
Anyone who cen board my St. Bernerd tor the school year, protector for your house . dog Is 1 year old. Wlll pay $20 11 month. Phone 272-8073 after 8 pm. 
WANTED: 1 used pleno In playable condition. Call Vel, 6661. 
workshops and conferences con­ducted off campus. The Center also produced audiovisual 
materials on the Church's traditions of llturgicaf practfces, including two films, "The Eucharistic Prayer of Hippolytus" and "A First Century Lord's Supper". Liturgical implicatlon'o( ritual behavior was one of the research interests of the Center which published "The Roots oi Ritual" in 1973. 
USED BOOKS 
Avalleble. tor these and many other 
clesses from Pendore•s Books: 
AM. St., 352,357,381, ...2; Phil., 101, 201, 2~1. 245, 255, 272, 275, 303, 306, 351, ~1; Art 151; Cot. Sem. 321; Psych. 180; Soc. 225,227; Speech 1l.>, 390; Theo., 102, 121, 123, 1~1. 1~1. U3, 180, 235, 236, 251, 331, 367, ~11. ~3. 593; Eng., 109, 113 180, 185, 307, 322, 376, 385, 386, m ... 395, 399, ~3A, o40<4A, 433, ~5. 505,528,583,591, 67~8; Gen. Program 2~. 281, 345, 381, ~1. ~. ~1; MOd. Lang. 180, 361, 393. ~21, 521,430, ~1; Govt. 180, 467, 545. Hlsto. 180, 215, 305, ~11. ~7. 439, 453. m. 509. 
MAN'S 1Q.speed bike. 26", good shape. Call after noon. 272·7857 
For sale: Couches, chairs, misc. Free delivery to campus Mrs. Cooper 272·3004. 
Wed. Sept. 10, Thurs. Sept. 11, Fri., 
Sept. 12. Picnic tables, electric 
skillet, blanket, shaver, bumper 
lack, battery 11arger, trash can, 
burner, cha stools, bench, 
dishes, kltcher ihtn.s, humidifier, 
antique Ice bo>':, miscellaneous. 
234·7362. 
Beautiful red >hag rug. Appro~. 1 9'x12'. Call . 1I. 
'65 Galaxle 1-'urd. Good engine Ilk• 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~======~~~q;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;=::::=n~ew~.~~~tl~re~s~.$·~~5:.1:34:·:~=:·~==~~ 
CLIMB THE  
TO SUCCESS.  
An Air Force way to give more value to your  
college life and college diploma.  
• Scholarships  *  
• $100 a month tax-free allowance  
• Flying instruction  
• An Air Force commission  
• A responsible job in a challeng­ 
ingfield,navigation ... missiles  
... sciences ... engineering  
• Graduate degree programs  
• Good pay ... regular promotions  
... many tangible benefits  *  
• Travel  
CONTACT  .. ·  CAPT. M.L. STOCKDALE  
ASST PROF OF AEROSPACE STUDIES  
UNIV. of N.D.  Ph  283 6634  

' I ,·I ~ I r I ~ ( ~ I -I •, • I' ~ ~ • , I c-• • • • • ., \ ,. • • 

the observer Tuesday, September 9, 1975_ 
Slager nUmber one QB; Browner starting fullback 
Senior Rick Slager got the nod as the Irish's number one quarterback yesterday after having run neck and neck with sophomore Joe Montana throughout ~e falL . . 
Slager was designated first team in yest~rday's practice and IS expected to st~rt when ~e Insh open their season next Monday night agamst Boston College. Coach Dan Devme had said after Saturday's scrimmage that whoever is number one will probably start and play most of the way against the Eagles. 
Right behind Slager is Montana, a fine passer whose strong showing this fall h~d made him the number two contender for the starting position. Frank Allocco had made a fme attempt after seperating his shoulder last spring, but has not recuperated ~no~gh yet. ~pho~ore Gary Forystek was also in contention. Neither Allocco nor Forystek saw action m Saturdays scnmmage. 
J~Il_1 Brown.er. b~came the only freshman to crack the starting lineup by nailing down the fullback position. He JS )omed by halfbacks Mark McClane and Russ Kornman. AI Hunter Steve Orsini Dan. Knott, Jerome Heavens, Terry Eurick, Jim Weiler and Steve Schmitz are the back:ups. ' 
There is no surJ.>rise at the receiving spots. As expected, TedBurgmeierwill start at split end and Ken MacAfee at tight end. Dan Kellaher and Kevin Doherty are behind Burgmeier while Doug Buth 
is second team tight end. 
The first team offensive line will be what it'has been all fall with Ed Bauer and Pat Pohlen at tackles and AI Wujciak and Ernie Hughes at guards. Steve Quehl will start at center. Defensively, the only major change has Mike Banks, after a tremendous fall, taking over at strong safety. He replaces John Dubenetzky, although Dubenetzky is still very much in the race. 
The rest of the defense remains as it has been, with Randy Harrison, Tom Lopienski and Luther Bradley joining Banks in the secondary. Jim Stock, Doug Becker and Tom Eastman are the linebackers and Willie Fry, Jeff Weston, Steve Niehaus and Ross Browner make up the starting
defensive line. . 
Freshmen not starting, but not disappointing 

by Rich Odioso Browner apparently been able to do it? Coach Johnson offers 
The coaching staff is very several reasons in addition to pleased with this year's Notre Jim's natural talent. "Having a Dame freshman football crop but brother who's played majordon't expect the Irish to reap a college football, he probably isn't bumper harvest yet. Only one as much in awe of it as some of the frosh, fullback Jim Browner, others, he came from a very goodfigures to start against BC Monday high school football program, he night although several more has great desire and probablyshould see action. Although fullback is one of the easier Browner appears to be the only 
positions to pick-up the patterns.
candidate to join his brother Ross, It's certainly easier than, say,Steve Niehaus, Randy Harrison halfback." and Luther Bradley as Irish 
Jim, the second of six football­players who have started the first playing Browner brothers, gained game of their freshman season, 1,229 yards for Western Reserve 
offensive co-ordinator Mervin High in Warren, Ohio. Brother Johnson sees the freshmen as Willard Browner, now a senior,anything but a disappointment. 
also gained over a thousand yards "They're, a 1 source of pleasure for the 1974 Raiders. Jim stands 6-3 
to the coaching staff both in­and weighs 205 and has what Coach dividuall~ and collectively," he Johnny Roland terms "sprinter's says. "Ordinarily one, two or speed", somehwere in the vicinity maybe more players just don't pan 
of 4.6 in the 40. In his time off from out. But so far they've all done football Jim has attained a black 
well." 
belt in karate. Another freshman 
The increased competition and 
who figures to see action in the pressure of college football, Irish backfield is Jerome Heavens especially at a place like Notre (6.0, 200), a thick-legged slashing Dame, makes it very difficult for a runner who also can fly. At freshman to step right into a Assumption High in East St. ~uis, starting lineup. Why then has Ill. , Heavens was a two-time All­
state selection and a consensus All­America as a senior. Along with Browner and Steve Orsini he figures to see considerable action at fullback. In comparing the two freshman fullbacks Coach Johnson assesses Browner as being faster and the more consistent blocker while Heavens is quicker off the ball and changes direction better. 

Freshmen figure to contribute at positions other than the offensive backfield. Linebacker Coach George Kelly is especially pleased with the play of middle linebacker Tom Golic and outside 'backer Steve Heimkrieter. Both have moved into second-team positions. Golic (6-3, 240) is from St. Joseph's High in Cleveland where he was the Ohio heavyweight wrestling champion. Not surprisingly Coach Kelly sees Golic's greatest asset as his strength. "He can play down asBrowner 
Hockey meeting set for tonight 
There will be a meeting for all candidates for the Notre Dame hockey team tonight at 7:00p.m. in the auditorium in the ACC (near the football offices). 
Wrestling meeting 
There will be a meeting for anyone interested in joining the westling team on Wednesday at 6:30p.m. in tte ACC auditorium (near the football offices). Anyone in­terested in helping the team is invited to attend also. 
BOOK EXCHANGE PICK-UP SCHEDULE 
TUES SEPT. 9 7-1 Opm WED. SEPT. 1 0 7-1 Opm THURS. SEPT. 11 1-2pm 
ENTER THRU SOUTH STAIRWELL 
Books not picked up by 2:00 p.m. Thursday, Sept. 11 will become property of the Student Union. 
moved into a strong back-up position at defensive end. "He needs a little time," says Yonto, "But he's a hard worker with great quickness, especially in his ability to recover." Mike Calhoun, Jay Case and John Hager are tackle prospects but with Steve Niehaus 
! and Jeff Weston set at that position they must bide their time. "In some years these freshmen may have been able to step into a starting role," comments Yonto, "But this is not one of them." 
Elsewhere, Receiver Coach Johnny Roland is impressed with """· . Kris Haines, a 173-pound speedster 
1 

lit , .. ·~ .... · from Sidney, Ohio, and quar­
~...' ..· terbacks Jay Palazola (6-1, 175, c /r·: 1 Glouchester, Mass.) and Russ"*;;;· .1lfr1 Lisch (6-4, 203, B~lleville, _Illinois) 
. ''·· . . ';,\.' .· Heavens 
a middle guard, we know that, now he's got to learn to play up as a linebacker. He has good speed for his size and should be able to ad­just." Heimkrieter (6-2, 215, Cincinnati), has also moved up quickly, thanks to "his ball in­stinct" as Kelly puts it. "He is very strong against the run, an ex­cellent tackler who enjoys con­tact." 
One freshman who appears assured of regular duty is Howard Meyer (6-3, 220 San Jose, Calif), who will be the Irish snapper-in kick situations. Offensive Line Coach Brian Boulac considers Meyer one of the most versatile players on the line. "He's not very big for an interior lineman but he has excellent quickness off the ball," says Boulac. Dave Huffman (6-5, 228) a highly-regarded linebacker at Thomas Jefferson High School in Dallas is making the adjustment to the offensive line and could move into considerably playing time by the season's end. 
Defensive Line Coach Joe Yonto, blessed this season with a veteran line, is especially pleased with four of his freshmen. Ron Crews (6-4, 225, Columbia, Missouri) has 
have done well m practice, but . don't figure to see much action this 
year. 
Although freshmen will help in 
spots, the Irish coaches apparently 
are not counting on them for any 
immediate large-scale con-
NO women's rowing club wins '75 Championship 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club's stayed at Notre Dame after the ena first undefeated team, a light-?f the. schoo~ year for te~ ~ays of weighl:'"women's crew ended their mtens1ve twice-a-day trammg for season on May 31 by' winning the , their Mid-Atlantic finale. They 
Mid-Atlantic  Regional  Cham­ '  rowed a very smooth and powerful  
pionships of the National Women's  1000.  meter  ra.ce  continually  
Rowing  Association.  That  opem~g  up  their  lead_  over  .a  
championship combined with their  c~mbmed ~rew  from Phlladelphia  
earlier  Midwest  Sprint  victory  Girls  .Rowmg  Clu~  an?  George  
gave  them  domain  over  all  the  Washmgton  Umversity  and  
country save the West Coast and  finished with a healthy two boat­ 
New  England,  and  made  them  length lead.  
Notre  Dame's  first  undefeated  With only two people lost  
women's  team  and  only  un­ to  graduation  and  transfer,  the  
defeated team in 1975. Their vic­ women  expect  to  be  even  faster  
tims  along  the  way  included  this year and are looking forward  
Princeton, Nebraska, Minnesota,  to  the  Head-of-the-Charles  on  
and  George Washington  Univer- October  26  in  Boston  and  the  
sity,  while  their  proteges,  the  Eastern Sprints in May where they  
freshman  team,  beat  Nebraska,  will  race  Boston  University  and  
Minnesota,  Purdue,  Marietta,  Radcliffe,  the  top  powers  in  
Mercyhurst,  Grand  Valley,  and  women's  lightweight  rowing.  
Kansas State.  Anyone  interested  call  Mary  
The  varsity  lightweilzhts  has  Fitzsimmons at 7954.  

We're No. 1 
4ll'in Notre Dame 
Sp~rts. 
Read the imdl) trnd mribunt Everyday! 
Call 233-616 1 NOW I DORM DOOR DELIVERY 
tributions. This may be good news, for as Coach Johnson puts it, "When a freshman steps right into a starting spot it usually means a void in the varsity." 

7 

Go lie 
