


server 
university of notre dome-sf.. IIIIJJOirY"s ~ Monday, October 13, 197S
Vol. X, No. 29 
Letter criticizes 
ND law school 
by Phil ('ackley Staff Heporter 

Law students and faculty members <•xpressed their reactions to an open letter written by Howard Glickstein to the law students of Notre Dame criticizing the "'d<•ficiencies" of the Notre Dame Law School. 
The letter. dated October 6, was written 
by Glickstein, who served as director of 
th<' CPnter for Civil Rights and professor in 
the law school from 1973 to 1975. He left 
Notre Dame for a full-time teaching 
position at Howard Law School. 
<ilickstein's letter begins by asserting that "Notre Dame Law School's unique student body. combined with the moral prpcepts that undergrad the school. provid<' the ingredients for potential J..(rcatrwss and accornplishment...Notre l>arrw slwuld produce a special type of lawy<•r. Unfortunately, I believe there is a J..(rPat distance to go before the Law School potl'ntial is realized." 
II!' states that law students do receive a 
"good tPehnical grounding" and wor­
thwhilP " 'problem solving' experiences" 
at Notrt• !>arne. lie also praises the foreign 
study program. 
Most of the letter. however, deals with 
what Gliekstein considers the deficiencies 
of the law school. These fall into three 
broad eategories, the first of which is that 
the law school "generally is hostile to 
public law." 

Glickstein states that he feels that 
greater emphasis is needed on public law 
because "lawyers can't seem to avoid 
public functions" which, according to the 
latter. includes politics, in all levels of 
government, and other public offices such 
as zoning boards and school boards. 
lie critizies the law school for instead 
providing a curriculum "geared to the 
rnarket·place ... a curriculum that. .. deals 
with the concerns of businessmen." 

(;lickstein further states that "the 
(continued on page 6) 
SMC receives -warning 
by Jean Powley Starr Bt>Jlortt>r 
St. Mary's students received a letter from Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, vice president for student affairs last week, reminding them of their responsibilities in regard to parietals and warning them against abuse of the privilege.
"Th<' original intention of parietals was to __,...._________.-----­
provide an opportunity ror socialization o~ our t·ampus whtch would afford semi-privacy:" she said. "They were not PS­tablished to provide opportunities for large pllrties." R<•cent violations of the party prohibition prompted the recent letter. Cannon stressed, however, that she was not ac­cusing the whole student body; only a few had violated the rules. "Visitation can't be controlled solely by the hall staff and the resident advisors. It is the responsibility of every student. The conditions of the extension of parietals, as granted by the Board of Regents, were based on student assurance of respon­sibility. This is impossible with a large group," .she added. Parietals regulations require that a visitor leave his ID at the front desk for security reasons. otherwise, anyone could just walk in and go upstairs. For the same reason, the dorm resident must go to the desk and escort her visitor upstairs and then back down again when he is ready to leave. No limit is put on the number of visitors per resident. In compliance with Indian state law, alcohol is not permitted on campus, except for students over 21 with special permission. Student reaction to the letter varied. "I don't particularly go along with no drinking. I think that we should be able to have parties if we want to because it's not fair for the guys to have to have the parties all the time," one student remarked. Another student expressed a similar opinion. "I think we should be able to drink in our rooms if we want to. By the time we reach college, we should be able to make our own decisions about what is right and 
Vagueness and bad ligures cited 

Laborpolicy problems explained 
by Christie llerlihy Starr Heporter 
Vague enforcement procedures and the use of inadequate national figures as employment guidelines are the causes of faculty disagreement regarding the success of the recently approved Notre Dame af­firmative action program. 
Department Of Labor Revised Order No. 4 requires any institution receiving over $1 million in federal grant money to have an approved affirmative action program for the hiring of women and minorities. 
The program must analyze the current composition of the institution's staff and set goals and timeta·bles for the recruitment, hiring and promotion of women and minorities. 
The plan which Notre Dame submitted to the Department of Health, Educ.ation and Wl'lfare last April was needed in order to acquire a federal research grant of $1.3 million for the University's radiation laboratory. When HEW delayed action on the plan past the June 30 fiscal year deadline, it became possible that the money would not be granted. 
In order to process review of the plans, 
III<:W asked Notre Dame and 15 other 
schools to sign automatic model program 
forms. Notre Dame refused, believing such 
action to be governmental extortion. A 
delay to Sept. 30 was granted for HEW 
processing, and last week the University's 
plan was approved as submitted. 
''The delay was due to a back log of 
work," said Charles E. Duffy, chief of 
higher education branch in the Chicago 
regional office of HEW. "The delay was 
ours and the grants were given extra time." 
In 1973 Fr. Theodore Hesburgh created a 
committee of experts responsible for 
developing the required hiring program. 
The committee asked the academic 
departments to construct a history of whom 
they have employed in the past and how 
they plan to diversify their staff in the next 
five years. Once the department submitted 
their projections,· the committee began 

Parietals letter 
Dt•ar studt>nts: 
This letter is a reminder of our shared I"<'SJlonsibility to encourage and maintain mature and responsible behavior during wl'ekl'ml visitation hours. 1 have had reports of illegal drinking parties on several wt•l'kends and of more planned for· future 
Wl'<'k~ds. Thue~re.Iam~~~H&y 
studl'nt to consider the negative effect this will havl' on visitation and the risk you run of losing it altogether if this type of behavior l'ontinues. It would be most unfortunate if I havl' to revoke the privilege for all students because of the irresponsibility Of a few, especially after the work and time that went into securing the recent extension of hours: 
Visitation hours were originally established on a basis of respect for and confidence in the integrity of students, and with their assurance that they would be responsible for their actions. Those of us who supported visitation as an important part of students' life neither like to see it abused nor want to eliminate it. 
Sincerely, 
Mary Alice Cannon 
what is wrong." 
A McCandless Hall resident advisor said 
that she expected the letter to be written, 
but thought it would be much more severe. 
"I'm glad she (Cannon J brought out the fact 
that it was just a few people ruining it for 
the rest. Dr. Cannon and Stevie Wernig are 
really behind the students and want us to 
have these parietals. It would be a shame to 
ruin it." 

negotiating hiring goals. 
"We jacked up some departments whose employment expectations we felt were low," said Sr. John Miriam Jones, com­mittee member. "There was a lot of ill feeling and compromising to establish our goals." 
"The important thing to emphasize is the difference between quota and goal," Sr. Jones stressed. "In a quota the government will not grant money unless the university hires x number of people. By setting a projected goal the University agrees to make every possible effort to achieve a eertain national percentage." 
When the Carnegie Commission results W<'re first Jnade public, women faculty criticized the report, believing that it was as much as saying that the University would not even try to remedy the situation over the percentage reported. 
The results of the Commission's com­puterized multi-variate analysis depended upon thirty-two variables regarding school hiring situations, such as degree of mobility, 
•

Values semlnar studied 
by Val Ztirblis St•nior Staff Beporter 
This year Notre Dame is experimenting with a senior values seminar that will become a University requirement for the class of 1979. Four sessions of 15 volunteer students and one teacher meet and discuss their values and morals and attempt to decide a format for future courses. 
Philip Gleason, a professor in history, and coordinator of the program, explained that the seminar's purpose is to present an oc­casion where students and faculty can address themselves to values concerning the student, families, education, career choices and value issues in law, business, journalism, medicine and so forrth. 
"It will be a senior year reflective ex­perience," stated Leason. "It will be a course that all students at Notre Dame will have in common." 
On October 11, 1974, the\Course of Studies Committee presented its proposals for the senior seminar. It stated that only through the reflection of our values can we become truly responsible persons, critically aware of what guides our choices. 
The report continued to point out that by requiring this course, at least "no student would graduate from Notre Dame without formally addressing the issues of being a responsible person." 
The committee proposed that the course would be a required one-credit pass-fail seminar, organized along college lines with pilot courses being tried during the 1974-1975 year. 
However, these proposals were revised on April 29, 1975, to strike the requirement" clause, but this was defeated by a vote of 20 
.to 19. The decideing vote cast by Fr. 
-----~--------------------------~~~ 
I 

child bearing years, amount of salary, turnover in given discipline, and projected openings. 
Given the size of Notre Dame and the number of women present in 1973, the commission predicted that by the year 2000 that the percentage of women in the faculty would rise to only 20 per cent. 
"It was a very discouraging projection," agreed Jones. "It seems just like a drop in the bucket, the nummbers are so small. But Notre Dame started poorly, 2 women in 1965. And any increase seems small." 
In contrast with this study, Notre Dame's 11ffirmative action goal aims for an increase to 12 per cent women over the next five years which means 96 more female positions. 
"The goals are realistic," Carol Moore believes. "Of course I'd like to see more women. but 96 is certainly much better than what we have right now." The amount of female faculty has declined since 1973-74 from 72 members to the current 61 mem­
(continued on page 3) 

Theodore Hesburgh, University president. Hesburgh was out of town and unavailable for comment. 
Why Senior Yt>ar? 
According to Gleason, the values seminar is offered in the senior year because the student is leaving the University and going to grad school or getting a job and settling down. 
"The student is moving into a new phase of life," commented Gleason, "and it is important to reflect on what has been learned, and how the experience of learning at the University for four years has any bearing on the choices made after graduat­ion." 
In view of the need to reduce the ideal goals of the course to reality, Gleason said it was desirable for the college of Arts and Letters to get started immediately, hence the experimental volunteer courses this semt•ster. 
"Student participtaion is what is going to be most useful in deciding the format of the seminar," stressed Gleason. 
Studl•nt Ht>actions 
The teachers of the course agree tht the student input is important to the fate of the course. 
Prof. Dolores Miller, an assistant professor in psychology, said that she in­tends to get student feedback on what they would like the course to be. 
"I've got a good group and we talk about things from all angles," stated Miller. "The students are really participating." 
(continued on page 7) 



the observer Monday, October 13, 1975
2

r 

warld briefs 
WASHINGTON <AP>-Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger 
said on Sunday that Congress gave "overwhelming support" to the 
Sinai peace agreements he helped to conclude between Isr~el and 
Egypt. The only problem remaining with Congress, he said, was 
about the "form of oublication" of the documents. 
LISBON <AP> -President Francisco da Costa Gom~s may 
surrender his post as armed forces chief of staff so Premi~r Jose 
Pinheiro de Azevedo can replace hi!fi ~ith a m~~ more.hkely to 
crack down on leftist activists withm the military, mformed 
sources said Sunday. . . . 
EUREKA, Calif. <AP> -Two masked people armed _wit~ nfles 
strapped a bomb to the back of a banker, threatrned to kill him a~d 
his wife and forced him to empty his bank vault of a substantial 
amount of money, the FBI said Sunday. 
an campus taday 
7:00pm·· chess club meeting, rm 227 math & computer center bldg. 
10:00 am to interviews, for lewis and clarke law school, placement 
1:45 pm--­3:30pm--­
4:30 pm--­
4:30pm--­
5:15pm--­
7:00 pm--­
7:00pm--­
7:30pm--­
7:30pm--­7:00pm--­

office in administration building. sign ups for in­terviews in 101 & o'shaughnessy. 
lecture, cardinal o'hara series, "work motivation today" by dr. frederick i. herzberg, ~istinguish~d professor of management, univ. of utah, library audit­orium, sponsored by business administration. 
celebration, navy two hundredth birthday celebration in Washington hall, followed by reception on the second floor of Ia fortune. 
lecture, nieuwland series, "big game and little circles: trypanosomiasis in africa" by dr. william trager, professor of parasitoloty, the rockefeller university_& member of the american academy of science, galvm life science center auditorium, sponsored by college of science, also october 14 & 15. 
evensong,"vespers", log chapel. 
meeting, physics club meeting in rm. 118 nieuwland science hall, first neeting of year. 
lecture, representative martha griffiths of michigan, o'laughlin auditorium, sponsored by student govern­ment in observng international women's year. 
faculty s.eminar, "work motivation today", by dr. herzberg 121 hayes-healy center. 
meeting, FCA, pop farley lounge. 
meeting, m.e.c.h.a., basement Ia fortune under huddle. 
Sings 'Whiffenpoof Song' 
ORONO, Maine <AP> -Croo­ner Rudy Vallee, whose mega­phone singing won the heart of Betty Coed, spent a nostalgia-filled weekend at the campus where he began his college days. 
Returning to the University of Maine for the first time in four decades, the 74-year~ld Vallee was honored for his role in popularizing "The Maine Stein Song," the school's offi­cia! song. 
The rousing drinking song was virtually unknown outside Maine before Vallee recorded it in 1930, making it an instant hit. He sang it on his national which Maine lost 24-15, pro­claimed the day Rudy Vallee Day. Long said the crooner's promotion of "The Maine Stein Song" has "reinforced the loy­alty of Maine men and women everywhere." I 

At a pregame ceremony Sat­urday and at the close of an evening concert featuring Vai­lee in a one-man show, students and alumni joined Vallee in I singing: "Fill the steins to dear · old Maine, shout 'til the rafters ring...." 
"This is one of the proudest days of my career," Vallee told the crowd in the football stands after being presented with a 
radio program and at concerts, \ pewter stein and a silver-em­often using a megaphone, his bossed baton to lead the march-personal trademark. ing band. 
Appearing at Maine's lOOth His concert, before a sellout Homecoming on Saturday, Val-crowd of 2,800, included such lee was cited for the inter-Vallee favorites as "My Time national recognition he brought is Your Time" and Yale's the school by making the song "Whiffenpoof Song." famous. , A native of Island Pond, Vt., 
Gov. James B. Longley, who who was reared in Westbrook 

Hanged for treason 




Pope canonizes Irishman 
VATICAN CITY <APl ­Pope Paul VI canonized Oliv~r Plunkett an Irish Catholic hanged by Protestant England, as a martyr saint of the Roman Catholic church Sunday and ap­pealed for "peace and reconci-Jiation" in Ireland. 
He told more than 100,000 persons at the canonization mass in St. Peter's Square: "Let this then be an occasion on which the message of peace and reconciliation in truth and justice and above all a mes­
' 

Lectures slated 

SMC holds T~Toman s Wee
F'F' I 
1 having "faith so strong that 
"Women's Week" opened last night on the St. Mary's campus with an address by Betty Buddy Davis, mayor of South Haven, Mich. . 
Davis, who has served as mayor of South Haven since 1973, presented a talk on "The Hallmarks of a Liberally Educated Woman," in Carroll Hall. 
She is a member of the Michigan Municipal Conference of Mayors, a member of the Board of Directors of Women's Resources in Grand Rapids, and a past vice-president of the South Haven School Board. 
Davis' speech culminated the annual Founder's Day celebration at the 131-vear-old institution. 
The "Women's Week" activities will continue tonight and tomorrow night with featured speakers Mart­ha Griffiths, congresswoman from Michigan, and poet Nikki Giovanni. 
Griffiths, who will speak at 7 
p.m. tonight in O'Laughlin Auditorium, has represented the 17th congressional district of the state of Michigan in Congress since 1955. She sponsored the Equal Rights Amendment and suc­cessfully guided its passage through the House in the 91st Congress. 

Vallee wows 'em in Main 
freshman  in  1921  before  trans­ 
ferring  to  Yale.  
Reminiscing  at  a  news  con­ 
ference,  he  said  he  changed  
schools  partially  because  his  

love for a local girl was unre­quited. 
"I met her while registering 
for college and fell deeply in love with her," Vallee recalled. "We had quite a few dates, but in the spring she jilted me for a baseball player, some guy named Jack who had a raccoon coat and an automobile, and I had neither." 
The Observer is published Monday 
through Friday and weekly during 
the summer session. except during 
exams and vacation periods. The 
Observer is pubIished by the 
students of the Univ. of Notre 
o'ame and St Mary's College 
Subscriptions may be purchased 
dollars per year> from The Ob 
server. Box Q, Notre Dame, In 
diana. 46556. Second Class postage 

also attended the New Hamp-jand Rumford, Maine, Vallee at­L..-p·a-id_.-N-ot-re_o_am_e._I_N_4_6.55_6_._ shire-Maine football game, ,tended the state university as a 

*.FOR THE LA TEST HITS & YOUR PERSONAL
*******~***********************-** 
* RECORD CLUB CARD TO SAVE YOU $$$ * 
*
* 
: -ST. MARY'S STUDENT 
: DS @ 

: LIMITED
* REcoRo cLus
*
i 
MEMBER'S NAME 

** . 
St d t I D f! 

_,.l 
* 
ph : * 
0 
net 
2 
: 
3 *
2 
• * 
2*8!
2
'* 


8 ~* 

sage of love for one's n~ighbor, wi_ll be emblazoned m the mmds and hearts of all the be­loved Irish _people." . 
The pontiff made no direct reference to Northern Ireland's sectarian violence but said of Plunkett, a 17th century arch­bishop of Armagh and primate of Ireland: "Oh, what a model of reconciliation -a sure guide for our day." 
Plunkett was _hanged, drawn and quartered m 1681 at Ty-burn, now Hyde Park Corner in him 55 years. ago. This was a step below samthood. 
London,  on  charges  of  high  
treason  agains_t  King  Cha_r~es  
II.  Pope  Benedict  XV  beatified  

"We have a new saint to­day," the Pope proclaimed and added: "the successor of St. Patrick, St. Oliver Plunkett ... his exhortation had been one of pardon and peace. With men of violence he was indeed the ad­vocate of justice and the friend of the oppressed, but he would not compromise with truth or condone violence." 
Griffiths received her B.A. 

degree from the University of 
Missouri and her J.D. degree from 
the University of Michigan. She 
was admitted to practice before 
the U.S..Supreme Court in 1955. 
She served in the Michigan State 
Legislature from 1949 to 1952, was 
judge and recorder of the Detroit 
Recorder's Court in 1953 <the first -woman to hold that postl. 
Giovanni, called the "Princess of 

Black Peotry," will read her works 
at 7 p.m. Tuesday in O'Laughlin. 
Giovanni, who graduated from 

Fisk University in 1967, has 
published many books, including 
The Women and the Men, Ego 
Tripping and Other Poems for 
Young Readers, Spin A Soft Black 
Song and Black Feeling Black 
Talk. Her numerous awards and 
honors include honorary degrees 
from Wilberforce University, 
University of Maryland, Ripon 
r..,JlP.ge and Smith College. 
"Women's Week" is a joint 
presentation of the St. Mary's 
Student Government and St. 
Mary's College. 
~ND 
SMC 
• 
The Pope praised Plunkett

k for 
Arthur of the treatment


Kopit's theatr~c~~!r!e~a~on 
of our native Americans. 

Oct.10, 11, 16, 17, 18at8:00P.M. Stepan Center (Notre Dame) 
lfr.oiiioiiiiiio-....oiiii 
it filled him with the fortitude 
and courage necessary to face martyrdom with serenity, with joy and forgiveness." 
Plunkett. whose innocence was established within days after his death, had gone to the gallows saying he would "rath­cr die ten thousand deaths than wrongfully to take away one farthing of any man's goods, one day of his liberty or one minute of his life." He had been accused of fomenting re­volt against Protestants. 
His native land was still racked by sectarian conflict up to the day of Plunkett's canoni­zation. On Saturday British sol­diers sealed off roads in south­ern Armagh in a crackdown on Irish Republican Army guer­rillas. 
In the Irish Republic, police and soldiers searched for Tiede 1-Ierrema, a Dutch businessman kidnaped and held against the release from prison of IRA guerrillas. 
The Irish Republic announced it would release 84 prisoners ­none classified as political -in recognition of Plunkett's eleva­tion to sainthood-
All Seats $2 (STD-FAC $1.50) Season Ticket Still Available Four Plays $7.50 {$5.50 Std-Fac) 
• I • :•' 
I 




FAT WAIIIIIY II S 
HAPPY HOUR DAILY 4 -7 
Free cheese and crackers 
for 10 dollars per semester ( 18 

Monday  -Football Night  
GIANT 7' SCREEN  
Tuesday  -Free Movies 9:00  

Wednesday -Ladies' Night (complete disco format) SATURDAY FOOTBALL SPECI 
open at 9:00 a.m. Large Sausage Pizza $2.88 Carry OUt 277-0570 2046 Sduth se·ntJ Ave.
********************.***********" """"-------------------·--­

Monday, Oct~ber 13, 1975 the observer 
3 

Architecture majors speak out 
Students seek courses in other disciplines 
b Paul Wall r
Y e
Starr ·neporter 

Many Architecture students at Notre Dame express a strong desire for the opportunity to work in problem solving situations with other disciplines, according to the National Architecture Ac­crediting Board. 
That is one of the problems noted in the Architecture Accrediting Hl•port which appears in the first issue of the '75-'76 edition of Notre na nw Ht•JIOrt. 
Pointing out ''an 'in­terdisciplinary yearning' on the part of the students," the board recom nll'nds that outside faculty mem hers from engineering, Pconomics. anthropology and other disciplines be incorporated into the 
g m in p oblem olvi g
P.ro r.a .. r . s n 
situations to contribute to the 
form and vitality of man-built 
. t ,,
env1ronmen s. . 
The p~oblems revealed m the report mclude a~ unfavorable student-faculty ratio and. the fact that the freshma~ year 1~ mostly 
general education wh1le the 
sophomore year is intensely technical. The report suggests that these 
twoyearsbemoreevenlybalan~ed 
~etween. general and techmcal mstructlon. 
Another major poin~ raised is the presence of a "feehng that the department is overwhelmed by 
l'ngineering.·: Itadvisesthatmore autonomy should be given to the 

Hiring goals explained 
(continued from page 1) 
Joseph O'Brien, director of personnel, gave an example of how the university sets affirmative aetion goals, a procedure also to be used when hiring professors. Nationally £i4 per cent of those seeking employment in the library industry are women, 10.6 per cent minority. Notre Dame, however, currently l'mploys only 45.7 per cent women and 5.7 per cent minority. 
The library anticipates 12 tur­
novers in the next four years based 
upon past employment procedures 
and projected growth rate. In 
order to come close to the national 
percentage by 1979 the personnel 
department plans to hire one 
woman and one minority 
representative this year, one 
woman next year, one woman and 
one minority in 1977-78. 
Goal setting depends upon the 
availibility of potential employees. 
According to HEW's affirmative 
action requirements, there is no 
uniform set of figures and con­
sequently the goals of college 
programs vary across the nation 
depl•nding upon which source was 
used in making hiring projections. 
"This is exactly the big problem 
which we are addressing ourselves 
to right now," said Duffy. 
"Availability figures are generally 
based on the locality from which 
faculty or staff are recruited. Since 
faculty are drawn from a 
nationwide market, the figures 
which schools use are based on the 
number of Ph.D's granted in the 
last three years." 
A and L holds 
The Arts and Letter Advisory Council is sponsoring an informal reception with Isabel Charles, dl'<lll of the Arts and Letters <'ollege, tonight in the Library Lounge from 7-8 pm. 
This is an effort by the new dean and the Council to bring the students and the Arts and Letter administration closer together. 
"These figures are arranged according to race, area of com­petency, and desired specialty area. In some disciplines it is almost impossible to give a figure­available female professors trained in teaching ancient Greek for example," he said. 
Duffy mentioned some of the sources which colleges use to determine hiring goals: HEW office of education, and professional associations such as the Modern Language Association and the Historical Society. 
Non-faculty hiring goals, however, depend upon the uniform figures which the Bureau of Employment Services of the State of Indiana makes available. Recruitment for personnel positions is generally local and consequently hiring goals reflect St. Joseph county figures 
HEW has been discussing for several years drawing up uniform figures for schools. "This job was contracted out to a commission but I am not aware of its present status," Duffy said. "It's a difficult job. Figures change." 
Without uniform national 
figures, controversy arises 
regarding the success of af­
firmative action's purpose. 
At the Labor Department 
hearings two weeks ago, 
University Provost Fr. James T. 
Burtchahaell cited the Carnegie 
Council study that "there is no 
significant supply of qualified 
women or ethnic minorities un­
successfully seeking appointments 
The Advisory Council is a student organization devoted to fostering this communication as well as act­ing as a service organization for the students in the college. 
Any student in Arts and Letters, with problems or suggestions, or interested in applying for a position on the Council, should attend the reception tonight. 
department. h we're being accredited it implies
A b R h d . out t at the department was • 
m rose 1c ar son, chairman simply being reaccredited that we weren't 1accredited before,
of the Architecture Department, .. . · which we were " 
said that he thinks the feeling is not I thmk that when people read that . 
. . r.-.~~~~~.-. .... ~~~~ ....~~~~, 
as strong as 1mphed: "I think they' -t 
overemphasized that aspect in CINEMA 7 6 presen S 
their report." f f 
As to the "interdisciplinary f f yearning", he replied, "I think that's being solved." He also noted f ''STAGECOACH'' f 
thatmost ofthe problems referred to were economic ones such as the 

f f 
student-faculty ratio. 

Apparently, however, some' Tues and Wed Oct. 14 & 15 t



r-------------------------­
1coM THE PAN ! 
students agree with the report. One junior stated, "I'd like to be 
more separate from Engine~rin.g. If we were, I think I'd enJOY 1t more and learn more too." 
Richardson also wanted to point 

reception IJ~ ,PIZZA PARLORI 
. The only I authentic Italian I Deep Dish Pizza. I 
I I 

I WATCH OUR ADS ALL THIS I 


IGET IT!. 
! 
• 
I I 
I I The pizza the 

* * * * NOTICE TO OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS DID YOU END UP WITH LEFT-OVER OFF CAMPUS HOUSING? -ARE YOU IN A HIGH CRIME AREA? -DOES THAT CERTAIN COED DESIRE YOU TO BE NEARER THE CAMPUS? IF YOU ANSWERED YES TO ANY OF THE ABOVE QUESTIOJ'· -MOVE TO THE NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS WE HAVE A FEW VACANCIES THAT WE WILL RENT FOR $75 PER MONTH PER STUDENT (MINIMUM TWO STUDENTS) COMPLETELY FURNISHED TWO BEDROOM APARTMENTS * * * * NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS  

'I I  world awaited!  WEEK FOR AN EVENT THAT I YOU WON'T BELIEVE I  
1 I  (Save our valuable coupons.) 8-pack 16 oz. 7Up or Pepsi, just $1  I1  
I  277-1221 or 277-1222  I  
1 I II  for Free Deliveryanywhere on campus  II I I  

·-------------------------~ 

~---------­


~ ~~d.Q9..~~rver 
Founded November 3, 1966 

Terry Keeney  Editor-in-chief  
Tom Modglin  Business Manager  
Tom Whelan  Advertising Manager  

EDITORIAL BOARD AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; KPn Girouard, NPws Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil. Features Editor; Chris Smith, Photo Editor 
Monday, October 13, 1975 


Food Waste 
"Mismanagement"or "miscalculation" It is true that the management of the is not the issue. The issue is food waste. 
North Dining Hall may not be directly 
responsible for the loss of the meat last 

The disclosure last week that nine week. But they are responsible for the 
cases of ham were thrown into-the gar­excessive weekly waste of good food. 
bage bins of· the North Dining Hall is 
disturbing enough. Even more distur­This food can, and should be, put to 
bing is the conservative estimate by one better use. It could be donated to local 
dining hall official that over $600 of food is soup kitchens or other charitable in­
thrown out each week by the Food Ser­stitutions that feed the hungry of South 
vice. Bend. There is no excuse for allowing 
perfectly good food to decay in the dining Notre Dame Food Service should hall trash can while people in our ownpractice what it has been preaching to community need food.

students for two years. Posters on the 
walls of the dining halls remind students Fr. Hesburgh has written of "Theto save food. Students are encouraged to Humane Imperative." All men andput on their plates only what they will eat. 
women have a responsibility to feed the 

Food waste by the Food Service is so multitudes of despairing hungry who are out of place at Notre Dame, where Al in immediate need of what we leave in the Sondej is a constant reminder of the garbage can. Notre Dame, through its starving majority in the world and where Food Service, must meet this obligation 
hundreds of students have given up a of the Humane Imperative by putting its regular meal for the Hunger Coalition. waste to good use. 



DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

He'/, ..1/NtJ NEtU f!N/3-&VGI<Y­t.ONOON AN{) JUST WY! 
aNile!< ANP f!N8l t.CXJI< ATtiWTA ANP.. I (IJHO'S 
\ / f3ACK! 

critical chaice~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
t 


TeMpO 

baran 
Floating soggy leaves burp 

onto the sandy beach .......... Summer green fades Golden glows mellow 
stark brilliantly blue skies 

as i jog around the lake i feel i am with nature, a part of it's magnificent omniscience. 
To be with nature; to jog or not to jog. To be one with the TeMpO of creation, living in appreciation with and externalizing the fullness of inner vitality; or to choose to ignore the prize of beautiful living which we've been awarded for being born. 
Last night's dream was unique. Recalling it vividly (for i scribbled notes as i semi-consciously dozed), i saw Mr. Magoo running, wildly, freely, pursuing a charming orange and black monarch butterfly. Like the six million dollar man, Magoo leaps fallen trees and gentle rainbows, sprees through silent fields of golden wheat. As he looses himself in his pursuit: he fell exhausted since he never took time to rest or to appreciate the sweet scents of the openness, to hear nature's harmony. 
You've done it again Magoo ...... you've let one silly conviction harm your existence. You didn't realize that you're part of the same nature and creation as the butterfly ..... so why try to catch something you can never hold? 
Why dream of such an absurd cartoon character..... performing miraculous tasks of another unnatural super hero -the six million dollar man? Perhaps these exaggerated characterizations illustrated how fakely and myopic-mindedly we loose ourselves in so many distracting and elusive pursuits? Like the comical Magoo, we try to catch something, whether it be a religous experience, an admission into law or med school, or a job with an excellent company. But in our pursuit to attain these ends, which are absurd when they are given ultimate priority in our lives, we kill our inner TeMpO. Too blindly we run around trying to find frreedom, total fulfillment, academic excellence, etc., and don't take the time to realize that each of us exists to be alive with nature, as a living and growing element of creation. 
Being a part of nature, we need to incorporate our pursuits as creative and growing parts of our self.. ... and not lose our self in the pursuit of the goal. To lose the self kills the TeMpO which we · possess; thus we lose so much of the inner strength we have when coping with crucial challenges and hardships. 
Think of all the inner vitality we possess but don't even know about.. ... since we never take time to provide for ourselves the opportunity to grasp onto and maintain a lifestyle appreciating our TeMpOs, projecting our fullest innate vitality. To jog or not to jog? The rewards of finding our own TeMpOs, living as mind, body, and soul need to, enormously exceed the efforts required to achieve such a lifestyle. We only get one opportunity to live, one chance to create ourselves, and one life on earth walking with God.......so why don't we fit into creation like the butterfly rather that Mr. Magoo? Why not enjoy the freedom of living in the position nature assigns us t.o? Why stifle the self-creating process by ignoring God and nature? 
Goethe writes: "Energy will do anything that can be done in the world; and no talents, no circumstances, no opportunities will make a two-legged animal a man without it." It's up to us to in­vigorate our own gleeful spontaneity, to find our own positions in the fullness of creation, to establish ourselves as full sources of energy. To live our TeMpO is why we were made: why do we waste so much effort fighting with ourselves and suppressing our . naturalness? 
So.... .let's jog! 


P.O. Box Q 
looking for he or she can find it at both schools. Sure there are N.D. guys who think the only reason girls go to either SMC or ND is to find a Notre Dame man, so they 
ND & SMC 

Stereotypes 

are vain. On the other hand there are SMC near Editor: women who view all N.D. men as 
I am writing in response to a lett­"Unique Woman" does: as ob­er that appeared Sept. 19, titled noxious jerks who don't know what "Unique Female", written by a St. they are talking about and who are Mary's sophomore. making their lives miserable. 
If her intention was to attack all Notre Dame men for having a false The point is whoever lumps all view of St. Mary's women, then she Notre Dame men into one group is is making the same mistake they as bad as someone who lumps all are by generalizing. Maybe I was St. Mary's women into one group. just lucky in the people I met at After four years one meets all N.D., but it seems to me that not all kinds: the SMC girls who dangle Notre Dame men view St. Mary's two or three guys on a string; the women as inferior and as SMC girl who is buried in her books manhunters. and sees every N.D.guy as totally 
Yes, there are N.D. guys who useless; the N.D. guy who has had think that all SMC courses are one bad ·experience with a SMC-jock, but anyone ' who has taken N.D. girl and has decided they are more than one course at St. Mary's all ... ; the N.D. guy who uses girls; knows better. There are jock and the N.D. guy who won't get courses on both sides of the road involved, to name a few. and if that is what someone is There are lent of good people 


REPUBLICANS AGAINST REAGAN. 
~' 
.,.. 
·,;.­

"The campaign contribution from General Cinemas? They gave 10,000 free showings of 'Knute Rockne, All­
on both sides of the road, people who are fun to be with, people who care, as well as the jerks. Is "Unique Woman" unhappy because of the jerks or because she would really rather be at Notre Dame? If she was simply being sarcastic in saying it is a handicap being a SMC student and will keep trying to transfer, then it seems to me she would not be blaming "thesejerks" for her unhappiness. 
Pattie Cooney SMC '75 
Infirmary 


Efficiency 
near Editor: 
I was a patient in the N.D. Student's Infirmary this past week and I'm writing this letter to say how impressed I was by the ef­ficiency and courtesy of the staff. 
They were all very responsive to any of my needs. Many times a nurse would come into my room just to see if everything was alright. Thank-you staff, you're great! ! 
John Claude 
****************** 
~ the observer : 
****************** 
Night Editor --Tim O'Reiley Assistant Night Editor --Martha Fanning Layout Staff --Karen Bacigalupo, Jim Stevens Day Editor --Brian Clancy Copv Reader --Jack D'Aurora Editorials--Jim Eder Features --G. B. Bangs Sports --Bill Brink Typists --Marie McCarthy, Karen Chiames, Terri Harlan, Candy Frankovelgia Compugraphic Robert J. Steinmetz Ad Layout --Pat Russell, Mike Miller 
"-··-n ..-..L 

Monday, October 13, 1975 the observer 
5 



!theatre I 



~let's pia~ indians' 
a reuiew by lisa moore 


With the greeting, "Let's play Indians," the cast of Arthur Kopit's play launches their audience into the physical world of the Wild West and the intellectual realm of satire. And with Friday night's opening, the ND-SMC Theatre Department laun­ched into a new genre of production: tht•atrP-in-the-round, produced in the 
vastness  of  Stepan  Center  <a  fitting  
rl'presentation  of  the  infinite  American  
Wl'stern plains? l.  

Tlw opt•ning play of the Bicentennial sl'ason. "Indians" centers around the advt•ntun•s of the legendary Buffalo Bill ( 'ody and succeds in provoking gt>nium• t•ontt>mplation of the disasters which befell tlw Amc•ril'an Indian, Kupit's example of tht> victim of Atperican imperialism <I c·mphasizl' genuine, for commercial ex­ploitation of the Indian tragedy and culturt• has been extensively resumed in n•cpnt years and this play does not fall into that category.) 
I must qualify any criticism of the new mode of production with the admission th­at I have nt>ver seen a play performed in­the-round that I did not feel could have lwen handlt>d more effectively on a traditional proscenium stage. By its very natun•. theatre-in-the-round insures that no one in thP house will be exposed to every action and Pvery line. In an art in which c•conomy and specificity are to play such substantial roles. Pach audience member ts very simply bound to miss some wor­thwhile. if not important. gestures and dialogue. This may seem a, superficial niticism, but the theatre is an art of 'hem ing and lt•lling.. and the quality of both is hindered by this form of por­dul'tion. "Indians" only confirmed my doubts about the effectiveness of theatre­tn-tlw-round. The very practical and basic dt•fil'iencies far outweigh its advantages ( n•alism. increased rapport with the audiPnce. more opportunity for variety in blocking and staging). I don't think I am l'Xhibiting a narrow-minded theatrical tastt• when I express thorough disap­pointnwnt !i.e. I've been cheated!) at st•eing expression only in the shrug of shouldPrs or the curvature of a per­fornwr 's back. More realistic~ Theatre is nut meant to be real, I would answer. 
Due to the unavailability of Washington Hall ! for reasons that hopefully embarass this wealthy institution), the ND-SMC Theatre has chosen to produce two shows in Stepan Center this season. Stepan Center is no place for a theatrical per· formance. Acoustically, it couldn't be much worse, although I do commend the technicians on a good set-up, enabling, I believe, the best possible sound transfer. The infinity of space does a great job on the "Voice" which commands from the highest speaker, but lines bounce and dissipate rapidly, creating an echoing pffect which often becomes annoying. These physical factors may be handled more successfully ill time, but I, for one, hate to see the quality of the performance itself. which is the main concern, suffer because of the physical setting. 
The performance -the crux -was ex­cellent in most respects. The leads were professionals-the play's most outstanding feature by far. 
llan Dailey can chalk up his portrayal of Wlliam F. Cody as another success in his ND-SMC career. Anyone who has seen Dailey perform in several shows would agree that one begins to trust him as an actor -trust him to fully characterize a role. master its believability and combine superb showmanship and professional finesse. The hat-slapping, boisterous, sensitive Buffalo Bill wins the audience, not as the hero he aspires to be, hut as a genuine human being, ambiguous and struggling, the embodiment of both defeat and success. With a booming voice, 
sentient acting and excellent audience­appeal. Dailey's performance works and makes the show work as well. 
Bill McGlinn, another veteran of ND­SMC Theatre, renders the character of Sitting Bull with unmatched artistry. His, the most difficult and subtle of the leading roles. demands acting from the inside out, and only a performerwith experience and ability can succeed in m~ing Sitting Bull real. not just a symbolic force. By the play's t>nd. an apprehensive hush blankets tht> erowd at Sitting bull 's appearance on the stage. Capturing the intensity, sin­cerity and greatness of the Indian leader, McGlinn performs the most powerful and complete role on the stage. Not enough praise. He, singularly, can control lines like. when speaking of the return of the buffalo, "It seems no less likely than Christ's return, and great deal more useful. " keeping the idea close and real, not allowing such lines to soar to in­tellectual heights which detract from the action at hand. 

Among the supporting roles, there are some excellent performances which lend a depth to the play as a whole. Michael Feord, who plays the educated Indian, John Grass, is sensitive, thorough, and does some fine things with his speech to the Senators. John Colligan, the Grand Duke Alexis, pulls the only loud laughs from the audience with his mastery of the Russian language. Matt Regan's por­trayal of one of three senators on a presidential committee to investigate the Indian problem far outdoes those of the the other two -he appears to be a nineteenth century senator, not a twenty year-old Notre Dame student posing as one. Big difference. and an apparent one. 
Kopit's script, which he admits is really a statement about American action in Vietnam. is too heavy-handed for my tastP The play is highly symbolic and satirical, and the abundance of "heavy" lines should have been played down rather 'than isolated and hammered on as they were. The action begins to get oppressive during the course of the show (certainly, bleachers don't help by way of comfort). The pace is slow-I looked at my watch as soon as the action ended, thinking it was much later than it actually was -and the comic aspects could have been played a lot more. The tragic and serious implication are there -unmistakabley -but their success lies in a subtle expression. The audience. especially a college audience, won'tm iss the point; Mr. Kopit has seen to that. 
Two scenes include Indian ritual dances and both are very well done. The first is symbolic of dying buffalo and the imagery, music and lighting combine to capture the imagination.The sun dance portrayal is much more elaborate and, again, I· l'chniques succeed in making it the single most expressive and appealing group action in the show. 
Congratulations to the technical direct­or. Richard Bergman; the lighting effects creatPd the mystery and intrigue of Indian culture and the music added much to the rendering of a mood. You know the play is working when you finally detatch yourself from the reality of Stepan Center and find yourself trapped by and focused on the imitated ritual and magnetic, non-verbal symbols. 
"Indians" is interesting, appealing to the intellect and powers of association, and, at a few points, actually intriguing. It could have been made much more entertaining and much less "lofty" by means of a switch in emphasis. Aside from a difficult physical setting and a poor script, its faults are few, and its strength lies in tis provocative appeal. "Let's play Indians," mPans a great deal more at the play's conclusion that at its first suggestion. The Pnding is perhaps the most effective I have t>ver seen; the climax is the end, the very end. One does leave Stepan thinking. 
1 

what is columbus doing at du lac? 
Its origin is French and its tradition is unmistakably Irish. But the walls lining the main corridor of Notre Dame's ad­ministration building are covered with famous murals depicting the career of none other than Christopher Columbus. 
The unusual story of the murals begins with an Italian painter, Luigi Gregori, who had a single-minded determination to memorialize one of his fellow countrymen when he came to this country from Italy in 1874. A noted portraitist in residence at Vatican City, Gregori was loaned for two years by Pope Pius IX to Notre Dame where he was to paint stations of the cross and otht>r adomments for the newly completed Sacred Heart Church on the campus. Completing these major art works, he took his paint brushes and personally mixed mineral oils to the ceiling of the Gothic­archt>d church where he recreated scenes from scripture. The two years passed quickly and Gregori, caught up by the l'ducational promise of the young university on the Indiana prairie, decided to extend his career in America. 
A disastrous fire leveled the school's administration building on April 23, 1879, and from the ashes rose a new structure with the ~olden dome that now dominates the campus. Wide expanses of open walls in its main corridor fascinated Gregori, who sought and received permission to execute the life story of <:olumbus on the newly dried 
plaster. For a model of Columbus he used The murals gained quick acceptance from Father Thomas E. Walsh, C.S.C., Notre the nation's historians, many of them being Dame's seventh president, and for other 
reproduced in textbooks or stored in 
principals in the murals, he coaxed friends newspaper archives where they were to stand in as fellow sailors, mutineers, resurrected each year on the anniversary of Indian warriors or members of Queen America's discovery. The largest of the 12 Isabella's court. murals, measuring 19 feet in width and i · ' 

feet in height, was chosen by the U.S. Post Office as the design for a commemorative stamp in 1892. 
Gregon completed many of the murals in the gas-illuminated hallways late at night when student traffic was at a minimum. Veteran members of the faculty later recalleu the exactness of the painter, noting that he waited three months for Franciscan clerical habits to arrive from the west so that he could clothe his models in the !:arne robes Spanish priests wore when Columbus was preparing for his journey. Another t•xample of the perfection sought by Gregori came after he completed the allegorical figures of the arts and sciences on thecurved inside walls of the dome and was distressed to discover, after the scaffolding had been removed, that the eyebrows on one of the figures were not completed. A perfectionist to the end, Gregori attached his paint brush to a long pole and finished thepainting by standing on a ballustrade high above the main floor of the building. 
After 17 years at Notre Dame, Gregori returned to his native Italy where he died within a few months. His legacy is hundreds of oils owned by galleries around the world and in his "labor of love," the story of Columbus which is seen by thousands of Notre Dame tourists each year. 

-
6 the observer Monday, October 13, 1975 
SMC initiates capping ceremony for nurses 
by Karilee Clark Marti Hogan Staff Reporters 
The St. Mary's College nursing class of 1977 began a tradition last Friday night by initiating its first rapping ceremony, held in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto. 
The St. Mary's Collegiate Choir opened the ceremony and was followed by addresses from Colleen Mooney, president of the Student Nurses Association, and Dr. Mary Martucci, chairperson of the department of Nursing: 
Mooney thanked the faculty and parents saying the ceremony was a special tribute to them. 
'\lartucci explained the significance of the capping ceremony. "No one really knows the origin of the cap," she said. ··The rap has lost the profound meaning it had in the past but it should inspire respect and retain distinction." 
Martucci said the students 

"accepted the challenge in deciding on the cap." The cap was designed by the students them­selves, and it is representative of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. She also added the capping ceremony "marks the transition of probationary to novice nursing." Fr. James Zatko then blessed the 
caps saying, "You will be <:__arrying 
out the second most important part 
of Christ's teaching -he healed the 
sick." Zatko stressed the religious 
aspect of the nursing profession, 
comparing nurses to missionaries. 
Following the blessing, Martucci capped the 53 nursing students at the altar. Each girl then lit a candle symbolic of the Florence Nightengale lamp, and concluding the c·eremony, recited the Florence Nightingale Pledge in unison. The pledge, which is the moral code of nursing "is a vow to fulfill," said Martucci. 
The class of 1977 was the first to enter the nursing program at St. Mary's. 
"It's tough starting a 

Letter criticizes Notre Dame law school 
(continued from page 1) 
general atmosphere is that the business of the Law School is business. Students are here to learn how they can make money · and how they can assist others to make money.. .little attention is paid to how the system much be changed to achieve greater equity in society." 
He also says "in my time at Notre Dame, I have seen students turn from expected careers of public service to more materialistic pursuits. Their consciences have been deadened by the Law School." 
The' second major point of the letter is that the law school does not give a high enough priority to creative thinking, but instead places emphasis on transmitting "a fixed body of knowledge." 
Glickstein feels "the emphasis must be on what the law should be. Students should come to class knowing what the law was and is, and should spend their time discussing what it should be." 
The Jetter's third area of 
criticism deals with Glickstein's 
claim that "there is little sub­
stance to the Law School's claim 
that it is unique because it is 
Catholic and humanistic." 
''I had expected to find ... a law school where there was a constant struggle to harmonize the 'legal' with the ethical and the moral. I find that there is not much dif­ference in what goes on at Notre Dame Law School than what oc­curs. for example, at Brooklyn Law School," Glickstein asserted. 
''A Catholic Law School would 
place great stress on analyzing our 
present system of laws to see 
whether it comports with basic 
Catholic principles of morality and 
justice. A humanistic law school 
would focus on the have nots rather 
than the haves. This certainly is 
not the focus at Notre Dame," he 
said. 
Glickstein concluded the letter 
by saying "I do not think Notre 
Dame· comes near to meeting its 
potential," and challenged the 
students to make the law school 
FCA discussion set for tonight 

live up to that potential, to reform the legal system, and to resolve the social and economic injustices in America and the world. 
Glickstein's letter has been the subject of much discussion at the law school for the past week. Reactions from students are generally in agreement, although specific points of the letter have drawn fire. 
Jerry Brown, a third year law student, said Glickstein presented some good ideas, but applied them too generally. Referring to the second point of the letter, Brown said, "As for knowing what the law is and was, it's not that easy. That's why we have courses and profs who do know and can teach us. 
Brown· also said that not everyone wanted to be concerned with public laws and changing the status quo, and that those people had the right to study towards that end. "I think his proposal goes too much the other way," Brown concluded. 
Marty Hagan, a third year student and administrative editor of the Notrt> Dame Lawyer,. 
professional program," Martucci said. She added that the program went through "a lot of red tape" before the National League of Nursing approved it. "But we did it, and we'll continue to go. It's a quality program truly," Martucci said. 

John Duggan, president of St. Mary's, said, "It's the fastest growing major in the College." Duggan has hopes that . "those capped tonight will be back to teach some day." 
Duggan also added that the 


The St. Mary's nursing college ceremony. begins a tradition of the capping (Photo by Tom Lose) 
offered were of sufficient quality. 
In the past, Hagan said, the Law School's lack of resources ham­pered it in this respect. "He's a little too harsh on the students and the Law School," Hagan stated. 
Hagan also felt that Glickstein was not justified in charing that students are only learning to make money. "There's a lot of discussion on improving public law among the students," he explained. 
Third year student Tom Yan­nucci, editor of the Notre Dame Lawyt>r, said "It <the letter) raises some pretty serious questions, which the school should address itself to, but probably won't." 
He said the most valid point of the letter is the one dealing with the deficiency in public law. However, Yannucci stressed that Notre Dame is very well equipped for persons wishing to engage in private practice. 
Vannucci feels that the Law School can not meet the same standards of excellence in public law as private law because of a lack of resources. He compared Notre Dame's law school with 

Yale's. Both have approximately com men ted, "Overall I agree with. +++++++++ his basic contention, which is that • the Law School has a potential and. A representative of the. 
that there are stated intentions. VANDERBILT w~!ch,it d_oes not meet." UNIVERSITY • He s nght when he say~ law. GRADUATE SCHOOL: school should be ~ore than JUSt a. OF MANAGEMENT 
place for turmng out legal . technicians." Hagan added. • Will be On campus • The problem with Glickstein's Tuesday, October 21 
contention, according to Hagan, is. to interview intrested. ~ith i~s practical application, not. students. Contact the • Its philosophy. _ Hagan ..Placement Office 
feels that students would take _. courses on public law if the courses ++++++++• 
NOTICE! 

FOR ALL GIRLS INTERESTED IN BECOMING TIMERS AT SWIM MEETS FOR THE . N.D. SWIM TEAM THERE WILL BE A MEETING TONIGHT(OCT 13) AT 7:00 ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL BUILDING· FOR INFO CALL JANE MEAGHER 4253 
-----------------~
I PEACH TREE I 
The Notre Dame chapter of the·· • 
DINING ROOM I Fellowship of Christian Athl<:!tes I ( FCA) will meet on the even.~·~ of 1 I Monday, October 13. The session , will begin at 7:30 in the lounge of 1 UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT I 
Farley Hall. 
TUESDAY NIGHT SPECIAL I
Jim Early, FCA captain, will 
SPAGHETTI AND MEATBALLS & SALAD
lead a discussion which will focus 
I 
on "Christ's Role in a Student's 

Transition from High School to ALL YOU C_AN EAT ......W-IT_H_T-HI-S-CO_U_P_ON-$-.0-5. College." All students interested 
$1 . 9 5 FOR FIRST BEER ( WITHin joining FCA or getting more DINNER)information about FCA mem­

be~ship are invited to attend. ..............~..u................. 
nursing students "working out in the community not onlY. helps them, but it is a service· to the community." 
Trish Muench and Karen Midock, two of the students capped Friday night, said, "It was a 
feeling of great accomplishment. All that hard studying really paid off." 
They added they were indebted to Martucci "for having instilled such a program in nursing at St. Mary's. If it wasn't for her, it couldn't have taken place." 
~fi,;;·j§·;;-.1 
: difference!!! ~ 
• 

: I'MIIIARE FOR: e
• MCAT Overl5rt~n :
• II ol tlpetotnet • 
: OAT ::,:::::, : 



:. LSAT • :
II Volumonou' homt 


: GRE 
lludy :''""'' : 


: ATGSB 
Courn1 lhlllft •

• II con111nllr upcllltd • 
• OCAT 
T1pt IKohton lor : 

• ftvttWI ol CIIU e
• cn••:r 
ln10n1 lnd lor Ult • e rft ol IUPPitllltftllry e 

: FLEX "'''":'· : 
• lbkt·UPI lor :

: ECFMG 
montd ltuo"' • 


! SAT ! 
! NAT'L MED BDS ! 
• Most classes start 8 weeks • e prior to Ex<Jm • • Spring & Fall compact~ • 
: Courses in Boulder & Denver : 
: TEST OATES : e MCAT 5-76 NMB'S 6-76 e e OAT 1-76 ECFMG 1-76 e e LSAT 12-75 FLEX 12-75 e • GRE 12-75 ocat 1·76 • e ATGSB 1-76 CPAT 12·75 : : SAT 12-75 VAT 12-75 e 
• INDIANAPOLIS e 
• 6620 GrHnlhore Drove • 
: lndianapolos, Ind. 462:?0 : e 13171 842-121P e 
• CHICAGO CENTER • 
=~-H.51 : 
i fUIPUIN i 
: EDUCATIONAL CENTER e 

TEST PfUP.t.fiiiAliON • 
• 11111••---..... ,tUft ;j
•• IZIZI~-•• 
• err-er-a ·n ~..t·l'"' 

the same number of students, but Yale has about 60 profs, while Notre Dame has 19. 
He disagreed with Glickstein on the point that the law school is teaching students to make money by assisting others to make money. "Notre Dame goes out of its way to provide the basics of ethics in law." Vannucci said. "The reason a more extensive program is not offered in this area is, again, lack of resources." 
Vannucci emphasized that "to try innovations requires time and money and support from both alumni and students." He said he 
doubted  if  the  students  wanted  
these innovations enough  to sup­ 
port them, however.  

Vannucci also observed that the letter has had its most profound affect on first year students, rather than third or second year students. "This is because the first year students are still making career decisions and have their minds open, while the third year students are already set in their ways," he said. 
Faculty reaction to the letter was sparse. 
OODOII:IOCIOOOOCIOCI:IOCIOCOOOOCIOC:ICCMXIOODOii:IOC:ICCIIICQogOCIOICIOCXIC;I 
( HARl ES D I (KENS LIVES! ! 

Emlyn Williams brings his world-famous performance of Charles Dickens to South Bend. In the flickering light he becomes Tiny Tim, Nicholas Nickleby, Fagin, Mr. Podsnap, and a host of other favorites. 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM Monday, October 13 at 7:30 p. m. Tickets $4.00, Front Orch.; $3.00 Rear 
Orch.; $2.00 Balconies 
Available at Morris Civjc Aud., South Bend. 

Monday, October 13, 1975 the observer 


Affirmative Action. could cause inequalities 
(continued from page 3) t>xceed the possible supply of women and minorities who will eve have the credentials--not to mention the intellectual ex­l'<'llence--to enter the profession of teaching and research in the various fields." Hurtchaell accused the govern­ment of succeeding in "making it necessary for colleges and universities to have to pay up to $5,000 more for a black professor than a white one, and perhaps $2,000 more for a woman than a man. provided she be free to choose her location." The af­firmative action approach, ac­t·ording to Burtchaell fails to stimulate supply of qualified minorities and women but in­tt•nsifies demand. Professor James B. Stewart, 
they are women or of minorities," Stewart continued. 
He pointed out several ap­plications which the department had refused: Donald L. Lee, a black poet and writer in residence at Cornell who was denied a job in the English department; Robert Chrisman, former editor of Black Scholar magazine denied a position in speech and theater. 
Stewart gave evidence of the university's failure to make a definite commitment towards retaining a black faculty member, Chris Asakwe, a black specialist in Soviet Law was hired by Notre Dame under a tentative contract which the University delayed in specifying. Unsure of employment for the next year Asakwe applied to other law schools for a position."With his background in seeking employment are too specific, according to Jones and therefore creates the availability problem expressed by Burtchaell. 
''Goals are not based on how many women or minorities have receivedPh.D'son a national scale but on how many women or minorities have received their 
Ph.D's in specific disciplines. How many women have received Ph.D's in cellular biology?" she questioned. 
"The university, however, must try to reflect that percentage in the 111ake-up of its staff. Earth Sciences finds it difficult to locate women with Ph.D's in that field," Jones continued. "We are just beginning to get graduate women in engineering but can we meet the ratios in civil, mechanical, and aeronatuical?" 

Agreeing with Stewart, Carol Moore, chairperson of a faculty committee on women's affairs said, "If the university truly commits itself to affirmative action, it will find women par­ticularly in Arts and Letters. There aren't so many women in science right now," she admitted. 
She believes that the lack of uniform national figures gives colleges the opportunity to shop for low hiring goals. 
"The real question is," she said, " 'is the commitment sincere?' Will the university turn over every possibility to find these qualified women and minorities? One of the problems is that national statistics vary drastically depending on where you get them." 
Moore suggested that a better indicator of availability would be the enrollment of women in graduate programs, not the number currently teaching. 
The second problem regarding the success of the affirmative action program regards charges that HEW's enforcement procedures are vague and ~!most nonexistent. 'I expected the plan to be approved," said Moore. "It had to be. It is a decent plan. My skepticism concerns whether it is going to be enforced." 
Duffy said that the schools are Pxpected to carry out the plans they have drafted through a committee which they specified in the program. "HEW will then review the results of the plan. If the results are poor, we check out why they are noor ." 
Part 2 of this article will be printed tomorrow. 
director of the Black Studies Soviet law and the current em­Program violently disagreed. phasis on detente and the oil "There is no availability crisis," Stewart said, "it would problem." he asserted. "Hiring have been a boon for the law school information does exist. to have had him on their faculty. 
"When positions become The university realized it too late; available departm<'nt chairmen Asakwt• was already accepted by are able to check the chronicles of another law school." 
higher Pducation for graduates in The figures on the availability of sppeific disciplines and whether qualified women and minorities 

Senior seminar topics are varied 
conclus1on. "Teachers really want to teach
Professor Andrew Weigert 
the course now," she said. "If it'sagrees that students reaction will mandatory, you're going to runhelp structure the course. 
into people who don't really want"Their input, mine and my to teach it and this can becollegues input will all determine detrimental."
1he outcome," Weigert adds. 
Another participant, Ken Bradford. agrees and commented,
('ourst• Varit"s 

"The course will be only as .ef­fective as the student make itSince this course is in the ex­themselves, and it will hurt thepPrinwntal stages, each section is 
seminar once it becomes a
!wing taught somewhat dif­required subject."
fpn•ntly. l<~nglish Prof. James Walton said that the class is very 
Bradford sees the optimistic side unstructured. 
of the course improving student­"Wp'n• preparing a proposal for teacher relations and as a soun­
a future values seminar right now. 
ding board for values students talk We talk about anything. The 
about.
students and teacher are one," 
"Whl:'n students talk about 
t•xplairwd Walton. 
abortion or politics, in the dorms,"A literature course has its own they are really expressing their nwthods and distorts morals," values," he said, "and this course continued the professor. "Students brings them out in the open."
have let their own moral and Darin explained that their class ethical concerns spill into my works on a couple of questions such literature courses, and this type of as "I'd rather be dead than..." or 
course allows exploration of these "I'd be good if. .." to figure out morals in a way separate from what the students really value the academic study," stated Walton. 
most. 
"The students are performing a "We know we have a chance to 
service and you are consulting affect a change in the structure of them in a way you wouldn't in an the course. We want to come upacademic course," Walton said. 
with a universal format for the 
The English professor also 
course and a way to psych people remarked that the total enrollment up for it," concluded Darin. 
of the class has dropped from 15 to about six students, most of them dropping before they came to the 
Free university 
course. Miller tries to get the students to focus on the University influence. 

being sponsored 
She covers the topics of the 
University and the moral self, the Sorin and Walsh Halls will job and the family. sponsor a "free university," Fr. "Within these topics I pose a Tom Stella. rector of Sorin Hall, 
question and we think about it announced Friday. People from together," Miller explained. both halls with specific interests, t­Prof. Stanley Hauerwas of the alents or hobbies will offer them to theology department has guest others in once-a-week classes. 
lectures in every week at the The "free university" course list request of the students. So far, 
at present includes: Intermediate University Provost Fr. James Imagining ldrawingl , taught by
Burtchaell. Dean of Students 
Sr. Jane Pitz; Photography, Pat .James Hoerner and professors Casey; Yoga, Fr. Stella; from the law school have made 
Catholicism revisited, Fr. Stella; appearances. Bridge, Kathy Gallogle; Beginning 
Weigert meets in double sessions Guitar. Terry Donahue; and the so the class will terminate early in Philosophy of Cycling, Tom the semester before the pressure of Mordic. final exams and papers. 
"Although these free courses are"I felt that the course should be a initially intended for Walsh and very open and cooperative kind of Sorin residents," Fr. Stella stated, t>ffort," said Weigert. 
"they will be opened up to others who are interested. "Anyone in­
Mandatory Change Crucial 

terested in taking a course must contact the teacher to find outWeigert continued, "We're all in time, day and place.
there because we want to be there. If the class becomes mandatory "We hope this will make the hall the motivation of the group can more than just a place to study and change." sleep, bu~ also a place to learn new 
Susan Darin, a student in one of and interesting things," Stella the sections, foresees the same commented. 

CLASSIFIED RDS 
WANTED Need 2 Beach Boys tix. Call 287· 
FOR RENT 0742 Need 3 Pitt tickets. Call 3334 or 3332. 
Need 9 GA tickets to Navy, not Two furnished rooms. ApartmE'nt necessarily together. Call Chip tor femalE'. Utilities paid. $65. 289 N<>ed 3 usc tickets. Call Mike 
1636. 8727. after 6 P.M. 288·0088 
Good money paid for any home tix. I'm looking for four good seats to 
Call John 1816. the Beach Boys Concert. Call Mike after 6P.M. 288·0088. 
To Rent: Large room in student's DPsperately need 1 USC and Navy houst" near Corby's: 618 ST. Peter Ticket. Call Pam 4·4161. street. $60 per month. All charges 
Need lots of Navy GA tix. Don 

included. 3755. 
NPed ride to Streator, Ill. on Oct. 17 or 24. Will share expenses Call R<>nt my upstairs, 2 rooms $50. 233 Need ride to Neenah, WI. Call Ron 
Marybeth 4444. 1329, keep trying. 3374. 
·---~ 

Need ride from Columbus or Cincti 3 bedroom house, near N.D. Ave. Want!'d: Desperately need ride to 
Ohio Sun. Oct. 19. Will share ex. apartment completely furnished, Dayton, Ohio Weekend of Oct. 17. 
penses and driving. Colleen 5202 or suitable for 3, 4, or 5 students. Call Lisa 4634. 
JPrri 4041. 272 7 656 or 272-6358. 
FOR SALE

Need two tickets for Georgia Tech.
WantPd: N!'Pd ride to Milwaukee Cor Chi) on Oct. 17th Will share 

Call 1038. 
PxpPnsBs. Calli Cindy 5486. Quality Stereo components at 20·30
NPed 2 or 4 GA USC tix. Call Jean 
percent savings. RMS Audio, 321
7034. 

S. Main, 288 1681. 12·7 PM. Want!'d: one ticket to any home qamP. Call John 1620. LOST AND FOUND Sansui Model 4000 stereo receiver. 45 w. per chanel. Perfect con DPsperately need 1 USC ticket. dition. 234·4824. Evenings.Will pay W!'ll. Call Mark 1474. Found: 1 Cinema' 75 ticket. 9·27. Call 8118. For sale: 1959 Volvo, good con NP!'d two Beach Boy tickets. Call dition. 683 2853. John 1800. Lost 1 watch with black band by reflecting pool. Fri. night. Call Mary. 2145. PERSONALS NPeded: 2 GA tix for Ga. Tech gam!'. Call I isa, 8089. Found on North Quad, half.grown To A.C. at B.G. Good luck with the white cat with grey smudge on exams! Much love, M.G.M. I still need S. Cal tix. Please call head. Call 1314 or 1618. ----·-·--··--­Mary at 4·4093. HI, KEN ! Lost: blue jacket says Salesianum Need 4 GA tix for Ga. Tech gamP. State Swimming Champs Please Call 4·5740. call Kathy 4.5335. Clark Kent, have a Happy Bir· thday ? Mad Man Across the 
Water. Would you like to be held Found in Lib. basement small gold responsible for my loss of parental airplane charm. Dave. 287·7783. 
financial assistance? PLEASE Tumbleturd Wittenberg, Happy 
sell me your USC ticket! Lisa 1297. Birthday, Super·Nurd. NUSS, Lost: 1 set of keys on ring In front CaroL Moffat, Becky, Byron, of Galvin. VERY VALUABLE. Smitty, SuMadre. Schmaltzy. and 
Need help of engineering student Please return to Biology office in Dino. or prof. in development of simple Galvin. invention. Call Mario Rivera, 7735 or 7736, leave message. Tim and Mike: Rape is indeed an NOTICES unfortunate experience. For security call 1279 or 1275. 
-----·------­
Needt>d: two GA Southern Cal tix. Please call John at 3467. 

PROTESTANT AND JEWISH 
There's this chick Robin E .P. Hep
STUDENTS. We have listings of 
middle initial stands for easy.
religious services in the vicinity.
Need 5 GA Navy tix. Call 5168. LOVt" K C Don T.
If interested, stop by. Office of Campus Ministry, 103 Lib. 
Wanted: N!'ed 5 or 6 GA USC tix. Dear Ma and Pa Huckleby, Call Mary Beth 1285. I been workin' day and night
Typing $.35 per page. Call Dan 
to earn my fare back down south.
272.5549. 
Please say yes. 1 miss those home NPE'd 4 GA USC tickets Call cooked hams! Love, your Gporge 3651. daughter, Chitella Huckleby
Juniors: Fantasia is coming. Watch for details. 
B.B. Do thPY have deep dish at the 
Needed GA Southern Cal tix. Call 

-
6896. -~---------Wantt>d: garage in vicinity or vatican?
~­

Corby's Call Dave 287.6493. T.C. Help! Desperately need ride to NYC area weekend of Oct. 17. Will share expenses and driving. Call Typing, Former executivE' 
Terri and Claire, Have a cosmicJen 7248. secretary, experienced in senior day, babes. The Third Floor Simps
!'SSays, dissertations. 232·5715. 
& Co. 

Desperately need 2 GA Navy tix. Monpy no object. Call Jhn 1462. Quick Loans Morrissey Loan Fund up to $150. 30 days, 1 per cent in· 
S.J.S. terest. Basement LaFortune. M·F 
MKT. MAJORS ARE ALLOWED TO READ PERSONALS TOO.
Help! Need 2 GA tix for Gt"'rgia 11:15·12:15. 
TRY IT!! PUZZLE THERAPY
Tech. Call Mike G. 1624. 

ANYONE? Accurate typing. Mrs. Donoho. Femalp housemate wanted, two 232·0746. blocks from Angela . Call after 5 
P.M. 289·4303. John Murphy's number tenth 
Sunflower Music Shop. Vintage ranked city in the U.S. is In· Need two USC tickets for our stringed instruments. Expert dianapol is. Cast your vote for ~isters (Student or GAl. Call repair, books, records, and ac. number ninf;' (here next wef;'k) at Coops or Pat 1654 ct>ssories. 632 Portage. 3285. 

Monday, October 13, 1975
the observer 






Fourth quarter rally saves Irish 
Montana's 80 yard pass to Burgmeier with 1:03 remaining gives ND 21-14 victory 
Freshman fullback Jerome Heavens breaks through the middle against North Carolina. gained 109 yards in the game, tops for the Irish. (Photo by Chris Smith) 


by Bill Brink CHAPEL HILL, N.C. --Sports Editor Dan Devine: We were just trying to pick up the first down. Joe Montana: I never thought he'd go all the way. Ted Burgmeier: I was just trying to get what I could. Luckily for the Irish, Ted Burgmeier is greedy. On a play designed to pick up seven yards, the speedy split end raced for eighty and gave Notre Dame a 21-14 victory over North Carolina Saturday afternoon in Chapel Hill, N.C. It was the finale to the dramatic turnaround the Irish had made from their lackluster performance of the first three quarters. ND scored three touchdowns in the last twelve minutes, Burgmeier's clincher coming with but 1:03 remaining. Not even the most optimistic supporters had ex­pected it. "They played extremely tough and hard-nosed football," said Devine. ''It was an unusually hard-hitting game. Bill Dooley and his team played an exceptional game." They were so exceptional in fact that they took a 14-0 lead into the fourth quarter with them. Both teams failed to move consistently in the first half, and punters Tony Brantley (for the Irish) and Johnny Elam were the busiest people on the field. Elam made it especially hard for ND with booming punts that kept the Irish pinned deep in their own territory. In the second quarter he rattled off consecutive punts of 50, 57 and 57 vards. · "We worked hard on our kicking all week," said Tar Heel coach Bill Dooley. "We wanted Notre Dame to have 75 or 80 yards to go, because we could see that they were not consistent on long drives." He was right. The Irish came close to scoring only once in the first half when they had first and goal to go on the Carolina 9. But quarterback Rick Slager dropped the snap, and Bunn Rhames recovered for the Tar Heels. UNC then threatened to score twice in the second quarter but placekicker Tom Biddle missed field goals of 3() and 41 yards, and the half ended with no points on the scoreboard. "We made all the mistakes we decided we wouldn't make," said Devine. "A lot of things went wrong." They continued to get worse in the third quarter. On Brantley's first punt of the second half he bobbled the snap. After gaining possession, he scrambled around for a few seconds then lateraled to Jim Weiler, who was swarmed by Carolina defenders and brought down at the ND 12 yard line. On the Tar Heels first play, tailback Mike Voight burst through the middle for the touchdown and Carolina led 7-0 with 10:33left in the third quarter. It was the Tar Heels' first score against Notre Dame since 1962. On their next possession, Carolina used Voight to move from their own 10 to the Irish 39 yard line. Then, on second and 14, Tar Heel wingback Mel Collins got behind the Irish secondary, and quarterback Billy Paschal hit him with a perfect strike for the touchdown. UNC took a 14-0 lead with 1:34 left in the third quarter. 
Bill 



The Irish Eye 
:;:;:;:-;.;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;~:::::::::::::-;;:;:;~;-;.::w.~.:~..:::;:-;.:Winning and losing 
"Itwasmybestvictoryever,"saidNotreDamecoachDanDevine. 
"It was the most disappointing loss I've had in my life," said Bill 
Dooley, coach of the Tar Heels. That makes it unanimous. It was that type of game. What was it that made Saturday's contest between Notre Dame and 
North Carolina, won by the Irish 21-14, so important? In the first half, the pace of the game moved from slow to stagnant; there were numerous errors; and some of the best players from both squads were missing. Why then the extreme emotion felt by each coach? 
For Devine the above things may have been just the reason. No doubt he was relieved after narrowly escaping from his second defeat in a row, but he was also immensely pleased·at his player's ability to bounce back in the face of adversity, to fight wh1'n there seemed like no chance of 
winning. 

The coach listed the things that th -team had to overcome. "We were behind, we were playing with kids w.10 could hardly stand, and the heat was terrific. Things went wrong all day. We made all the mistakes we said we wouldn't make. That has to be demoralizing for a team. But we kept our poise and came back." 
For Dooley, the loss hurt so baldy because the Tar Heels had, as they say, come so close. They had a victory over one of the perrenial powers in football wrapped up, no small feat for an ACC football team. If he had gotten blown out of the stadium it might have been different, but he knew his team had put forth an effort deserving of better. 
"It would be a hard loss for anybody to take," said Dooley. "We had it won and let it slip away. You couldn't ask for a better effort from these kids." 
The truth is that few people really thought the Irish could pull it out. T­he ND players uttered unconvincingly 'we always had a chance', but it was slim and they knew it. It was to their credit that they took advantage of that chance, but afterwards no one claimed that credit. They'd had a scare thrown into them, and their recovery left them in stunned silence, much the same as the silence that gripped the demoralized Tar Heel players. They knew that the North Carolina team deserved as much praise for putting the Irish in their predicament as the Irish deserved for getting themselves out of it. 
Ultimately, it was one of those games where the glory went not only to the winner. Both teams deserved to feel equally proud of their efforts. For Devine and the Irish it was a little easier. 
• 
"It's a very difficult game to talk about," said Devine, " because I know how badly Bill Dooley and his team must feel. I think that when they get over their initial disappointment, they have a right to feel very proud."· 
It is doubtful however that the Tar Heels will ever fully realize the satisfaction they deserve from their performance. Pride in defeat never equals pride in victory. 
Both teams put a tremendous amount of blood, sweat, and maximum effort in the game. That is why the emotions ran in extremes, 'best" and "most disappointing". But they are opposite extremes, and theychannel thequalities',of determination an.d desire into the categories of victory and defeat. And the losers never feel fully rewarded for their determination and desire, though it may have been immense. 
"I think that their disappointment can only be surpassed by our elation," said Devine. At the end of a game, effort always gets expressed on the scoreboard, -•• t th:~t's what determines emotion, either good, or bad. 
With their backs up against the wall, the Irish had to move, and they did. Slager mixed passes and rushes to take ND to the Carolina 4, the big play a 13 yard pass to Ken MacAfee from the 17. Slager gained two, then handed off to AI Hunter who slanted for the score. The Irish went for the two point conversion, but Slager's pass to MacAfee was incomplete in the end zone, and the score was 14-6 with 11:27 remaining in the game. 
The Irish defense held, but the offense could not muster a drive, so when the defense forced the Tar Heels to punt again Devine sent in sophomore Joe Montana at quarterback, with 6:04 left. 
"I didn't think I'd be playing,"
said Montana. "Then the coach said 'get ready, you're going in.' I was a little nervous." 
He didn't show it as he came in to lead the offense 73 yards to the Tar Heel end zone. After a pass to Burgmeier to the Carolina 41 yard line, he dropped back and hit end Dan Kellaher with a 39 yard pass to the 2. Hunter took it in, and Montana's pass to Buth for the two points was good. The score was knotted at 14-14 with 5: 18left to go. 
The Tar Heels drove right back to the Irishs' 24, but Biddle's 41 
yard field goal attempt was wide, and the Irish took over on the twenty at 1:19. After an incomplete pass, Montana hit Burgmeier on a sideline pattern designed to pick 
up a first down and get out of bounds to stop the clock. But Burgmeier turned upfield and darted down the sideline, evading what looked like a sure tackle at about m_idfield and then racing alone to the end zone. 
"I sent in a draw play," said Devine. "But I told him (Montana) to take 91 <the sideline pass) if it was there. Teddy did a great job. This is what we thought he could do when we made him an offensive end." 
"The coach told me to look for 

the audible," said.Montana. "and I 
saw that the cornerback had 
dropped way off, so I called it. But 
we weren't going for the touch­
down.'' 

Burgmeier explained his 73 yard 
gallop down the left sideline that 
saved the game for the Irish. 

"It was a seven yard out play," 
he commented. "I was just sup­
posed to get what I could then get 
out of bounds. But the cornerback 
overran the ball, and then I gave 
him (safety Bobbv Trott who had 
B-ball tryouts 

•There will be varsity basketball tryouts on Wednesday, October 15th at 4p.m. Please bring all practice gear. 
come up and seemed to have a 
good angle on Burgmeier) a fake 
towards the field that kind of 
neutralized him. Then I just went 
around him." 
Though less than a minute remained, the Tar Heels weren't through. They drove down to the Irisl'> 21 with 20 seconds left. But a great play by Irish linebacker Jim Stock, a pass broken up by safety Mike Banks and a final pass that was incomplete in the end zone sent the Tar Heels to the locker room stunned losers. 
The game was played in stifling humidity that had all exhausted at the game's end. The Irish were missing a numberof starters while 
North Carolina was missing its 
star tailback James Betterson. Voight made up for the loss h?wever by rushing for 169 yards, h1gh for the game. Jerome Heavens had 109 for the Irish, which put him ahead of Jim Browner, who did not make the trip, in the ND rushing category. 
Slager hit on 11 of 21 passes for 106 yards, while Montana com­pleted 3 of 4 for 129 yards. Paschall was 11 of 22 for 161 yards for the Tar Heels. 
----4 
-~ 
-~ 
Heavens 

Defensively, Rod Broadway was a thorn in the Irish's neck all af­ternoon. The 6-3, 250 lb. junior tackle was tremendous against the run. For the Irish, Steve Niehaus was again superb and Tom Lopienski and Mike Banks were also outstanding, Lopienski not­ching 13 tackles. 
The 49,500 people that jammed Kenan Stadium was a record crowd, the third one in three games that Notre Dame has played before on the road this season. Next week the Irish travel to Colorado Springs to face Air Force. 
Bauer Column 

Tlw column entitled 'Reaching ExJtectations' which was printed in Friday's Observer was written by Ed Baut'r, offensive tackle and co­eaptain of this year's football ll'am. llis name had been placed at tlw top of the column but was ael'idt>ntly rubbed off by the night staff. Tht• Obspt·ver apologizes to Ed and thanks him for his time and 
l'ffort. 









