
l 
server l 

university of notre dome -st. mary's college
Vol. X, No. 39 Monday, October 27, 1975 
What next for Spain? 
1 ' 
Franco nears death \\ 
MADHID, Spain <AP> -Gen. controlledSpain since 1939, a priest f<'rancisco I<'ranco was near urged prayers for Franco "and for death early Monday as doctors, the government in this moment of 
-"J. -., preparing surgery, instead trial." massaged his failing heart and I<'ranco asked for the last rite of • gave him an emergency blood 1he Catholic church Saturday after transfusion. sources close to his suffering heart seizures, lung mt>dical !Pam said. complications and stomach 
Prince .Juan Carlos de Bor­swdling. bon. Franco's heir as head of The general's 13 doctors said state, and all top government Franco had a restful night officials rushed to the general­Saturday and that "acute _symp­issimo's l'ordo Palace 10 miles toms of cardiac insufficiency ­north of Madrid. 
heart failure-have not returned." A nH'dical bulletin late Sun­But they added: "the gravity day reported he was sleeping persists.'' but his heart was experiencing A small crowd, mostly jour­"important rhythmic upsets 
nalists, waited outside Franco's with marked accentuation of 
Pardo Palace just north of Madrid Ihe congestive cardiac in­
where the general lay ill. I<:lsewhere the nation marked
sufficiency" of the past two days. 
Sunday with its usual traffic jams, picnics and soccer matches.
A Madrid newspaper said openly 
Franco's doctors said the Not everyone went home unhappy from now hope for another Rose Bowl ap­
what the nation and its leaders 
p;eneral had "total lucidity" a Saturday's game. These SC fans cherish pearance and national championship. Full
suspected and what Franco's 
condition not mentioned in some the Trojan's victory as their team won its story on page B (Photo by Chris Smith).
doctors so far have refrained from 
previous medical bulletins. second straight from the Irish. They can
saying. "Franco is dying," At the general's bedside as he
rl'ported the Nuevo Diario, adding 

heard mass were his wife, Denies break-in at Dillon
that the general also was suffering daughter, seven grandchildren,kidney complications. 
Premier Carlos Arias Navarro and R Private nwdical sources said the the president of the parliament, 

oemer 
general's eventual death was more Alejandro Rodriquez de Valcarcel. 

replies to charges
likely to come from uremia -Franco's chosen successor, poisoning of the blood stream by Prince Juan Carlos de Borbon did by Pat Hanifin and the maid and knocked on middle room to investigate and 
diseased kidneys -than heart not attend. The 37 year-old pr'ince Editorial Editor Evans' door. There was no answer saw Roemer. He asked me to take failure. They gave him very little will become new chief of state and so I had the maid unlock the door the sign down and said that he time to live. king of Spain on Franco's death. Dean of Students James Roemer and enter the room. As she entered would if I didn't." 
has flatly denied charges that he she asked if anyone was there.
The nation prayed and played Newspapers speculated that It was this either-<lr demand, 
as Franco's family gathered again Arias, with three years to serve as broke into rooms last Thursday to Evans answered from and ad­Evans maintained, which caused at his side to hear the palace premier, might offer his remove banners with "sexual joining room." him to take the sign down himself. chaplain celebrate mass at the resignation to the new head of connotations" refering to the USC Roemer said he then entered the "I asked Roemer to help me and he general's request. state, although not required to do Trojans. Roemer said that he had room to cross to speak to Evans. refused so I did it by myself," At the Church of San Francisco so by either law or protocol. They merely requested students to "I asked him to removed the Evans explained. the Great. expected to be the site of suggested, however, the prince remove the signs themselves and banner but he claimed that it was When asked why his originalaccused junior Tom Evans of lying O.K. so
a state funeral for the 5-foot 3-inch would turn it down in the interests 1suggested that he look at it story was different from his 
p;eneral whose· dictorial rule has of trying to maintain continuity. about the circumstances in the context of the other signs present one, Evans said, "I was surrounding removal of Evans' nearby," Roemer said. really P ·o . 'ed when I wrote the sign in Alumni Hall. According to Roemer, Evans letter and spoke on the phone. The
SMC Com.ml•tteestart·~ Signs in five halls, Grace, claimedthathehadneverheardof way I was treated was disgusting." 
~ Flanner, Dillon, Alumni and Sorin any other connotation of Trojans 
Dillon Students removed signswere removed after Roemer besides that of the USC football talked to members of the hall staff team. 

Before his visit to Alumni,or students in the halls. The signs Then, according to Roemer, Roemer went to Dillon where he

executives program 
used four-lette~ words or double Evans went over to the window, was also unable to find the rector~~nten.dr~~ .referrmg to the fact that pulled out the screens, threw them or assistant rectors. He went to the
by Mary Janca students. but in the activities of the TroJan 1~ also a br~nd name for , on the bed, and pulled in the room of the hall president, EltonSt. Mary's Editor College,a and also so there might prophylactics. One sign each was banner. Roemer did not assist in Johnson, who was also gone. "Ibe more parent imput and in­removed from Flanner, Grace, this except to stack the screens out 
The St. Mary's College Parent's volvement in the school," con­Alumni and Sorin. or five talked to I<::lton's roomate Don
F?ur of Evans' way even though Evans Doheny and asked him to have the
<'ouncil decided Saturday to tinued Lynch. were removed from Dillon. twice asked him to help. 
signs removed by the students,initiate an "executives-in-Cannon reported the consensus Roemer removed the signs part-•'Evans threw the banner over which he did," said Roemer. "I

residence" program next of the parents at the meeting was ly at the requ.est o~ Fr. Th~odore my right shoulder into the corner did all
seml•ster. Corporation that a "liberal arts background is Hesburgh, UmversitY. president; and continued to argue. At that not ask that signs be 
representatives will visit the the best training anyone could removed, just those refering to
Edmund Stephan, chairman of the point I left the room," Roemer prophylactics."
l'ampus for a day to attend classes have. as they have the ability to Board of Trustees, and other concluded. and informally discuss in­write and to think creatively." University officials. Roemer specifically denies In case there was any dispute 
about nature

terviewing techniques , their The vice president for Student touching the banner at any point or the of the signs 
Roemer said that he took picturesprofessions and the prospective affairs said the council is in­Claimed Roemer took sign cutting anything. "I never got wit­of them before they came down.

professions of students, stated Sr. terested in "identifying companies hin five or six steps of his window,'' 
Johnson confirmed Roemer's

Ellen Dolores Lynch, vice and corporations interested in the The sign in Alumni hung outside said Roemer. 
story and dismissedthe complaints

presid~nl for public relations and hiring of not only St. Mary's the window of Junior Tom Evans of the students who had put out thedevelopment. graduates, but of all liberal arts and read "Cream the Trojans." Hoerner's account supported signs. He said that Roemer talked
This Board of Directors meeting, students. According to Evans' letter to Doheny and Doheny told the
the largest in recent years with 20 Futhermore, the council plans to published in The Observer Friday Roemer's story was sub­students to remove the signs.
t•ouples in attendance, demonst­write to "key corporation people" he returned from the library at 2 stantially supported by Evans' "They would have come down inrated "a great deal of enthusiasm, to make businesses and cor­p.m. Thursday and found Roemer next-door neighbor, the student any case that afternoon," saidsupport andrccognitionthat career­porations more aware of the work in the room cutting down the sign. whom Roemer had asked to watch Johnson, "since they would haveorientation of students is very potential and "breadth of ability" He accused Roemer of "breaking what happened. "Roemer asked interfered with the decoration ofimportant," commented Dr. Mary of liberal arts-educated students, into my room" removing the me to watch in case proof was the entire hall." The students didAlice Cannon, Vice President for said Lynch. This, she said, may screens and taking down the sign needed that nothing was taken not give Doheny any trouble aboutStudent Affairs. result in more recruitment by the himself. Evans repeated his story from Evans' room. He first removing the signs since he wasAlthough the exact number of large corporations on campus. in a phone conversation Thursday knocked on Evans' door and when 
acting on the Deans orders,

l'om pa ny representatives to be In other action at the meeting, afternoon. no one answered the maid opened Johnson said.
sent and the dates of their visits council members discussed ways "Evans letter is a lie," Roemer the door and went into the room. I 
Roemer had earlier called the

are still not clear, Lynch said the of increasing the number of said last night. "It contained believe that Evans' was in the rector of Grace Hall, Fr. Robertcouncil members hope to organize foundations for academic and serious distortions of the facts." adjoining room and came out to Huneke, and asked him to have athis "executives in residence" other types of programs of the A.ccording to Roemer it was E.vans talk to Roemer and the maid." 
sign on Grace removed. The sign

program "very soon." college. Building needs, and ?.Imself w~o remov~d the sig~., Evans' neighbor left early and made a four-letter reference to theIn addition to bringing increased gifts from corporations When I first went mto Alumm, · did not see who actually removed perverse sexual habits of Trojans.
representatives from their own and unrestricted giving of grants Roemer said, :·r looked for the the sign. 
A similar sign was removed

businesses or from companies and were also discussed. rector and assi~tant rectors but Evans changed his story last from the side of Flanner aftercorporations interested in hiring In noting the large turnout for there were not m the hall. , So I night after listening to Roemer's Roemer spoke to Flanner Rectorliberal arts students, the council the meeting, Lunch said the board went up to t~e second floor. account. He no longer claims that Fr. John Mulcahy. Mulcahy saidalso decided to aid the Career of directors of the Parent's Council Roemer ft~st knocked on the he returned from the library to find he had already planned to have itDevelopment Office by having must have a minimum of 12 door of the smte next to Evans and Roemer in his room removing the removed but that Roemer's requestparents act as hostesses for St. couples and a maximum of 30. asked the. student t~er~ if the sign sign. 
speeded up the !process.

Mary's students who come to Twenty-seven currently serve on was hangmg from his wmdow. The He now claims that he was in the another city for a job interview. the board. neighbor told him the sign was third room of the suite and did not After returning from Dillon and 
The Council also plans to set up hanging from Evans' window. hear or answer the knock on the Alumni Roemer said he found his area representatives of parents Lynch commented that the Roemer asked the neighbor to door orthemaid's call. "Roemer phone "ringing off the hook" and throughout the country so they can number of couples on the board act as a witness to what Roemer did enter the room without per­many people trying to find out take a "more active role, not only does not reflect the number of was going to do. l'hen, said mission. When I heard someone in what his policy was. He called up in the career development of the Roemer, "I went with the student the other room I came through the (continued on page 7)
students attending St. Mary's. 
r 
Monday, October 27, 1975
2 
the observer 

warld briefs 
UNITED NATIONS, N.Y. AP -U.S. Ambassador Daniel P. Moynihan said Sunday a resolution declaring Zionism a form of racial discrimination will probably pass the U.N. General Assembly and this could prompt the United States to "put some buffer between the U.N. and us." 
NEW YORK AP-A former head of the FBI's Domestic Intelligence Division says that J. Edgar Hoover ordered FBI officials to conceal from theWarrenCommission information regarding a threatening note from Lee Harvey Oswald, Time magazine reported Sunday. 
EL AAIUN, SPANISH SAHARA AP -An estimated 6,000 Saharans carrying flags of the Polisario liberation front demonstrated Sunday against Morocco and Mauritania, which claim sovereignty over this desputed territory. 
"Down with Morocco and Mauritania," and "We reject any sort of annexationism," shouted the demonstrators, including scores of women and children. No disorders were reported. 
BEIRUT. Lebanon AP -Moslem-Christian street battles sent 
bullets. rockets and grenades tearing through the European 
quarter of Beirut Sunday, leaving at least 30 persons dead. 
Foreign embassies stepped up plans to move their nationals out of thewar torn capital. 

an campus taday 
7:00p.m.-meeting, mecha, Iafortune basement. 
7:00p.m.­

meeting, smc reporters, rm. 160, regina. 
7:00p.m. -exhibition, chess by sam shipiro, rm. 227 math bldg 
7:30p.m.-meeting, fca, pop farley lounge. 
8 p.m.-movie, dutchman, eng. aud. free 


Kisses lor Kissinger are Sadat's greeting 
WILLIAMSBURG, Va. (AP) -Egyptian ?resident Anwar Sadat began his 11-day visit to the United States Sunday bare­headed in a driving rainstorm and with a kiss on both cheeks from Secretary of State Henry 
A. Kissinger. 
The 56-year-old president, the first Egyptian head of state to come here, was beaming as he stepped from an Egypt Air Lines Boeing 707 jetliner at Patrick Henry Airport outside Newport News, Va. 
The plane was 35 minutes late and a heavy rain fell as Sadat stepped down the ramp in a dark blue raincoat. 
At the foot stood Kissinger, his wife Nancy, Undersecretary of State Joseph J. Sisco, Her­mann F. Eilts, the U.S. am­bassador to Cairo, and a num­ber of other officials. 
The party then came by mo­torcade to this colonial restora­tion site. 
Sadat will seek more U.S. military and economic aid dur­ing his visit. He also wants a promise that Israel will be pressured into giving up more land to the Arabs and, accord­ing to sources, wishes to en­courage Congress to deny Is­rael ultramodern arms such as the Pershing missile. 
Sadat and his wife were to be guests at a dinner here tonight. 

The schedule for Sadat, the first Egyptian head of state to visit this country, called for an afternoon of rest after his arrival here Sunday. 
He lift Cairo Saturday and spent the night in Paris. President Ford will welcome Sadat on Monday at a a formal
t ceremony at the White House folowing the Egyptian leader's overnight stay at Williamsburg. Before leaving Cairo, Sadat said in a taped television :interview that he wishes to buy arms to replace weapons lost in the last Middle East war and to try and convince t­he Ford administration to scale down its military commitment to Israel. "Mainly, I want you to help me 
on the economic side, to have long­term loans because the difficulty in my economy is that we have short­term loans," Sadat said in the interview for ABC's "Issues and Answer." 
On the arms issue, Sadat said he would go to other countries if the United States does not sell him arems. 
Sadat also is expected to see a commitment of up to $5 billion in military aid. Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger said recently that he did not think "we will be prepared at this moment to make any specific commitments of military aid." However, he said: "We will be prepared to discuss the problem with him in general terms." 
After the formal welcoming ceremonies at the White House on Monday at 11 a.m. EST, Sadat will meet with Ford, and in the af­ternoon he has an appointment with Vice President Nelson A. Rockefeller. 
He will be guest of honor at a White House dinner Monday night. 
Sadat has another meeting with Ford Tuesday morning and then a luncheon given by Kissinger at the State Department. 

Economists fret --------••••-•• I 
over tax cuts, I PEACH TREE 1· spending curbs I •DINING RooM 1 
WASHINGTON <APl -De-l 
I 

spite encouraging economic re-. UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT ports in the last two weeks, a · ~ S AY NI.GHT SPECIAL I 
number of Ford administration I TU E 0 I economists worry that the eco-SPAGHETTI AND MEATBALLS & SALAD 
nomic recovery will falter with-I • out continuation of 1975 tax re-1ALL YOU CAN EAT .----------------1•• ductions next year. WITH THIS COUPON $.05 i Some of them privately pre-L $1 . 9 5 FOR FIRST BEER ( WITH I 
diet President Ford will com­promise, if necessary, on his
announced intention to veto any tax reduction that is not accom­panied by a $395 billion spend­
1977

ing ceiling for fiscal .
White House Press Secretary Ron Nessen repeated Ford's veto threat Friday, after the
House Ways and Means Com­mittee approved a 1976 tax re­duction of $12.7 billion, but without a spending ceiling. 
Ford has called for $28 billion in tax cuts, with offsetting spending reductions of the same amount for 1977. 
"I still think in the final analysis there will Ire a tax cut," said a key administration economist who did not want to be named. "I think everyone wants a tax cut -the Presi­dent wants one; the Congress wants one. The only question is what size and will there be a spending ceiling associated with it." 
Another key economist, As­sistant Treasury Secretary Sid­ney L. Jones, said extending the 1975 tax cuts "would make the recovery more certain and more sustainable." 
"Personal consumption that's what go us here (the re­covery); that's why tax actions are important to sustain it, so business spending can come in and reinforce the recovery," he said. 
If there is no extension of the 1975 cuts, however, it would re­sult in higher taxes on Jan. 1, leaving workers with less mon­ey to spend, and that could set back consumer buying, Jones said. 
James L. Pate, assistant commerce secretary of eco­nomic affairs, said in an inter­view he shares the concern that failure to extend the tax cuts would hurt the economy. 
"I don't feel the economy has sufficient momentum to let the tax cuts expire," he said. 
Private economic forecasts make the same point. A new forecast for the National City Bank of Minneapolis by econo­mists Walter W. Heller and George L. Perry said consumer spending should increase next year and provide the "major thrust" to the economic recov­
ery.... 
The Observer is published Monday 
through Friday and weekly during 
the summer session. except during 
exams and vacation periods The 
Observer •s published by the 
s~udents of the Univ. of Notre 
Dame and St Mary's College. 
Subscript,ons may be purchased 
tor 10 dollars per semester ( 18 
dollars per year) trom The Ob 
server, Box Q. Notre Dame. In 
d•ana, 46556. Second Class postage 
paid. Notre Dame, 1 N 46556 
********************************•
i MAKE THIS ! ! CHRISTMAS A I ! HTENNIS XMAS" i 
: GIVE THAT SOMEONE SPECIAL #1 *A "SPORTING'-' GIFT THAT WILL_ #i I"SERVE LOVE" ALL YEAR 'ROUND!'' 



! * SPENI'S ! * 
* *·
! PRO SHOP !
! 321 SOUTH NOTRE DAME ! 
~~*lJI,U*~~li~.****~i~~J· 
· 1 
DINNER) ji 

· =-­
ARMANDO, FORMERLY OF 
'ROCCO'S BARBER SHOP, IS NOW 
LOCATED NEAR CAMPUS TO GIVE YOU THE CUT OR STYLE 
THAT YOU WAN-T 

OPEN SIX DAYS A WEEK 

MONDAY THRU FRIDAY 8 TO 5,30 ­SATURDAY 8 TO 4 
PERSONALIZED SERVICE 
ARMANDO FEMIA 1437 N. IRONWOOD DR. PHONE 277·06t5 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 
$*********************************** 
+: CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSION ~
11 
~ 
~ 
+: 
+: 
! ~ ~ 
~ 
: 
~ 
t
t 
~
i 
~ 
~ 
~ 
+: 
+: 
+: 
. 
+:+: 
~ 
+: 

in conjunction with SMC and IUSB ~ presents ~ 
*
* 

BALLET i REPERTORY i COMPANY i 
* 



-A DANCE RESIDENCY ~ 
* 
* 

10/28 -lecture/Demo 7:30 pm FREE ~ 
* 

10/30 -Performance 8 pm $ General Admission $3.50 * 
* 
Student-Faculty $2.00 ~ 
*
*
*
* 

O'laughlin Auditorium * 
~ Tickets available at the Student Union ~ 
f·························••+•••••••
fAT 






WAIIIIY II S 
HAPPY HOUR DAILY 4 -7 Free chees.e and crackers 
Monday  · Football Night  
GIANT 7' SCREEN  
Tuesday  ·  Free Movies 9:00  

Wednesday -Ladies' Night 
1 

(complete disco format) SATURDAY FOOTBALL SPECIA 
I 
open at 9:00 a.m. 

Large Sausage Pizza $2.88 carry out 277-0570 2046 South Bend Avenue 
Monday, October 27, 1975 the observer 
SMC Assembly to hear course book plan 

cooperation on the part of the St. Mary's,pointing out the second
by Shawn Scannell at St. Mary's. about their own courses. 
"We've arranged with the professors was excellent. She advantage of St. Mary's students
Staff Reporter 

Scholastic to have 36 evaluations added thatbecause of the relatively would have access to the Notre Arrangements for the publicat­from nine departments printed small campus, it isn't difficult for She said she'd like to see the Dame evaluations, as well as their St. Mary's students to find out booklets printed and distributed at own.
ion of St. Mary's course evaluation with the Notre Dame evaluations. hooklet will be made final at The real question for the assembly 
Thursday's Student Assembly meeting. 
Cathy Carrigan, who has been working on the evaluations, ex­plained she would propose $126 be allocated for printing 1000 copies of the Scholastic course evaluation booklet for distribution is whether they want to use the Notre Dame evaluatons over here, or have the St. Mary's students find out about them from other sources," she said. 
Carrigan said the evaluations of St. Mary's courses were "very clear and good" and that the 

Ballet company due 
The St. Mary's Department of contemporary works representing Speech an Drama, the Cultural both established and developing Arts Commission of Notre choreographers. I>ame,and the Department of The Michiana appearances of Theatre of Indiana University at the BHC are supported in part by South Bend are joining forces to grants from the National En­bring ballet to Michiana. The sc­dowment for the Arts and the hools are tri-sponsors of a three­Indiana Arts Commision. day residency, which will include For ticket information, call the two performances and a lecture­Saint Mary's Programming Office demonstration, by the Ballet at 2114-4176. 
. .HeJ_>ertory Company of New 
\ ork <BHCl. . 
Luce Program offers : vALERIE's RESTAURANT :
The 17 member balleUroupe will 
• 801 S. MICHIGAN. SO. BEND •
present a lecture-demonstration at 
7::10 p m. Tuesday in 
()'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint yearS study in Asia: (NEXT To GILBERTs) 289-0681 : 
Mary's. They will perform at IUSB alii p.m., Wednesday and By Ken Bradford return to Saint Mary's on Thur-Copy Editor sday for an 8 p.m. performance· in O'Laughlin Notre Dame has been invited to 1\udttorium. nominate two members of the 
BHC was formed in 1972 and academic community to compete 
appears under the auspices of the in the Luce Scholars Program. Ballet Theatre Foundation. The Fifteen scholarship winners will dance company tours the United receive $9,000 or more to spend one States performing classic and year working and informallv 
SMC offers summer 
•


courses lD Europe 
by Liz Merrill Staff Reporter 

St. Mary's History Department tour program for any interested students who wish to travel while Parning up to six credit hours.A Black. associate professor of history and program coordinator, announced that two programs will be available this summer, one in London (May 18-June 18) and one in Home (June 17 -.July 16). 
The London program will cost $915 and include travel in: England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales and France. Students may register for one or all of the following eourses offered through this program at a cost of $52 a credit hour: Art 355 -British Art, J<:nglish. 452 · Shakespeare and History 280. 
The Home program will consist of Pxtensive travel through Italy and France, in addition to Germany for $1,125. Classes will nwet in the St. Mary's Rome campus building or in the field at Horne's monuments and galleries. 
The following 3 courses will also be offered at a cost of $52 per credit 
Chess buffs challenged 
History professor Sam Shapiro, 
South Bend city chess champion, 
will play simultaneous matches 
against all comers 7 p.m. tonight 
room 227 of the Math and Com­
puting Center. 
Winners will receive illustrated 
1976 chess calendars. Players who 
draw their matches will receive 
chess bumper stickers. 
Hegistration for the exhibition 
will cost one dollar. Proceeds will hour: Lectures and Tours, Italian Art and Architecture, and Con­temporary Italian Affairs. 
These courses may be taken for two or theree credits. Details of this may be worked out between the student and teachers involved. 
Black commented on the success of the program in the past, "We had 26 students last summer from colleges all over the country. The program is available to any student. It is an exciting opport­unity and we've been able to get excellent rates. I would encourage anyone interested to check into it." 
For further information, contact Professor Black on campus at 4948 or at home, 272-3726. 
CIA: no Soviet arms cutbacks 
WASHINGTON tAP> -The Central Intelligence Agency es­timates that Soviet defense spending has exceeded that of the United States every year since 1971 and that a cutback is unlikely. 
"The sourse of Soviet defense spending during the next few years is well defined by pro­grams already under way," CIA director William E. Colby told the congressional Joint Economic Committee in June. 
Even if current talks on strategic arms limitation and mutual force reduction should achieve agreements, Colby said ongoing Soviet military pro­gram curtailment is unlikely. 
An arms limitation agree-
studying in Asia. :OPEN BREAKFAST SERVED • Nominees must be American M h S ANYTIME • 
citizens who will be less than 27 • on t ru at • 
years old on Sept. 1, 1976. Eligible : 5 am tO 9 pm : are Notre Dame seniors, law students, graduate students, • II am to 7 pm Sunday • 
recent graduates and junior • • faculty members. ·.~T ALlAN SPECIALTIES • ,.
Qualifications include a record • I~ of high academic achievement, a :sPAGHETTI 
:1 strong career interest in a specific • sauce 1.65 Meat Sauce 1.80 Meat Balls 1.90 e field which is not Asian affairs or •MOSTACIOLLI 
international relations and an • outstanding capacity for leader-• Sauce 1.65 Meat Sauce 1.80 Meat Balls 1.90 • ship. No Asian language ability is • • expected and persons with !LASAGNA 2.35 RAVIOLI 1.75 • previous extensive experience in ~ •
Asia are ineligible. • <Dinners inc. Italian bread & salad and soup) • 
Acc?rding to_ Donald _Costello, :PASTA fAGIOLlhitalian bean soup> .45 ~ .65 • 
select10n commtttee chariman. the • Luce Scholarship is designed to •ITALIAN SAUSAGE SANDWICH 1.1~ provide Asian experience t~ future~MEAT BALL SANDWICH 1 OO 
leaders who would otherwise be • • • 
unable to live and I~arn in A~ia. USE OUR LIGHTED PARKING LOT
The foundatiOn fmds ,e • p~of~ssional posi_tio~s in in-i:l .DOORS NORTH ON MICHIGAN ST! stitUtlOns or ~gencies m Ea_s~ or le CARRY OUT ORDERS WELCOME
Southeast Asia. Some positions 1e inciudeteachingorresearchbutno
scholarship recipient is formally 1• :~~~l!~ici~r:di~~~v:~~~de~~d no ~:. • 
Also serving on the selection 
committee are Dr. Le Thanh Minh Chau, Conrad Kellenberg, Edward Goerner, Klaus Lanzinger, John ·Malone, Charles Allen and )'John 
Kozak. 


ROCCO'S 
Barbers & .Hairstvlists 
Full Service Unisex Shop
Make an Appointment or 
Just Drop By ! 
Roffler Products 531 N. Michigan 233-4957 


r----------------,
' TONY'S I 
lSHOE SHOP& REPAIR! 
IJUNGSCHUE BOOTS I 
I  FULL LEATHER LINED  I  
t  VIBRAM CLIMBING SOLE  t  
t  NOW ONLY $45.00  t  

ment, he said, could reduce provement of their strategic 
pressure for new defense pro­weapons which should cause grams, but "we expect the So­viets to embark on a program 
the costs to turn up again by

of extensive qualitative im-the end of this decade." 


NEEDED 
Scoutmaster for well-equipped local troop. 
If interested, contact 
RON MAJEWSKI 272-7863 
• 

A QUALITY RESTAURANT OPERATED BY ,. 
. . • 
• j :.~~~~ ~~~JJ. ~E~}i~i .s~~Tj~~ e~~. • •: 

JIM HAMMES 
PLUG & POINT SPECIAL 
GET ACQUAINTED WITH OUR 
MODERN-FRIENDLY SERVICE 
DEPARTMENT 
Regular Price $36.28 
Now __$23.95 Plu!> Tax 
lmtall ~~ew Spark Plugs, Po1nts and Condc·mer, Ret1rne [ngme, Restrobe Drstributor. Pnce rncludes Parts and Labor on 8 Cyl. Cars. 
* 
Price Based on Oldsmobile Models 

* 
Price May Vary on Other Makes 


OFFER GOOD THRU OCT. 31, 1975 
Service By Appointment 
CALL John Hein or Dave Nelson 
. . . 
• ''·. ..... ·· ·: .' ,WttERE THE 'ACTION IS" :. .: '-.-..~· 
go to 1he Notre Dame Chess ' Club. The chess club is planning a 
~ OPEN : JIM. ·H~MMES ·oLD.SMOBILE-·DATSUN
match against the Elkhart Chess Club on Nov. 10. Persons in­
t MON.-FRI. 9-5, SAT. 10-12 1
terested in playing in the match may contact John Newcomer or 


235-9644 
Jim Stevens at tonight's match. I CALL 283-1144 I 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~..-.~~~~ .... 

-~~ ~--­
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 



~ ~1~dQQ,~~rver 
Foundt"d Novembt>r 3, 1966 

Terry Keeney  Editor-in-chief  
To~ Modglin  Business Manager  
To~  Whelan  Advertising Manager  

EDITORIAL BOARD AI RuthPrford. Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; K<'n Giropard, NPws Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Ken -B~adiord, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil, Features Editor; Chris Smith, Photo Editor 
N~w~ 2~8l~I~7~15~------~B~u~Sin~~~u~28~l-7_47_1______________~ 
Mond~y, October 27,_ 1975 


P.O. Box Q 
democracy to 100 voting members. chances by trying out for theDillon's What happens to the individual's marching band and making it rights then? Until the Right to Life official! group demonstrates a clear Then they can not only be on TV, 
majority in Bayh's districts would but they can come to school four have voted differently than he did, days early, can rehearse 2 hours a they have no personal beef against day five days a week during the 
Dear Editor: the man. He presumably voted season, and can take on the other responsibly, which is more than responsibilities band members We should all use our you can say for many senators and shoulder in order to perform 
imagination--that 'imagination representatives. during halftime of a Notre Dame that is funny, that makes a cloudy Secondly, a letter recently ap­game. Sounds pretty fair to me. day sunny'--NOT the infantile and But getting back to Saturday's 
Imagination 
peared in The Observer in which 
poverty-stricken imagination that the group criticized Student game: the students on the field seriously, folks Dillon Hall has displayed in some Government for not allocating really weren't hurting anyone, of its posters and 'streamers' for money to their cause. I feel that were they? Well, maybe not, but Homecoming weekend. Is this a the reasons they were denied one of the band members who had 
money are quite sound. Until the
token of that much-heralded Dillon to stop playing to restrain the 

Gun Stamps
Hall tradition? Right toLifecan show a majority of crowd earns his living by playing the student body wish to support 
trombone-how do you apologize to 
Josl'ph W. Evans their viewpoint, there isno excuse him if you split his lip? for student money to be given Attempts to psych the team are 
for the Poor 
them. By this same reasoning, one always welcome, but I thought I point of their letter was definitely had to go to an away game to he
Rule of valid: How many students would attacked for being in the Band of approve of their money being used the Fighting Irish. 
---------------art b uc h waId
to support the Society of Ujaama?
Majority 
For that matter, what percent of Doug Daley WASHINGTON--Jonathan Spear and Michael Petit have brought the student body benefits from any 
to my attention a statement from Harlon B. Carter of the National lll'ar Editor: money given to this organization? Rifle Assn. in defense of the "Saturday night special" handgun. 
Notre Dame's long history of One last question--How many of Carter told a House judiciary subcommittee on crime, "It makes participation in the cause of the students here even know what Shameful no sense to me why possession of a finely made $200 handgun owned Religious and Constitutional their student government fee is by a decent law-abiding man of means should be legal, but equality and freedom is something being used to support? In fact, do ownership of a $40 handgun (Saturday night special) by an equally
Spirit 

we should all be proud of. Few we actually have any vote in the law-abiding resident of the inner city, who can't afford anything universities can boast such a large matter? l>l'ar Editor: better to protect his family and home, should be a felony." percent oftheir students being Name withheld by request Coach Dan Devine and his team It is a very interesting point and Spear and Petit have a solution actively involved in minority deserve all our praise for a great to the problem. causes. However, recently I have fight against Southern Cal last The federal government should institute immediately a gun been surprised at some of the Saturday. Since my arrival stamp program for the poor. The program would work as follows:
Half-time

irrational and inconsistent actions at Notre Dame last fall I have a family of four making less than $6000 a year would apply for gun of such group, the ND Right to been impressed and even inspired stamps at the local post office. 

Performance
Life. by the healthy pride and high All the head of the family would have to produce is his income tax 
Firstly, the group has recently morale of Notre Dame students. return, and if he qualifies as a "needy case", he would be given the demonstrated against Sen. Bayh l>l'aJ· Editor: I've written to my friends, equivalent of $200 in gun stamps which he could spend at any gun because he voted against an Catholics, Protestants, agnostics, store for weapons and ammunition. The gun store would be amendment that would bave been I'd just like to take this op­bragging about the fine group of reimbursed by the government for the stamps at 100 cents on the favorable to their cause. Yet portunity to thank that small young people here who care about dollar. wasn't the reason he voted against minority of my fellow students who their school and its endeavors in an Some people might argue that the poor would take advantage of it because he believed that the decided to take the field with the age when apathy is in style. the program and use the stamps to buy cheap guns and pocket the majority of his constituents would band during halftime of last I still believe that is a true rest of the money. But while there may be some abuses of the gun also vote that way? If every Saturday's game. It seems to me, description for the great majority stamp program it would still be the best and cheapest way of seeing senator was asked to vote ac­though, that if they have such an of Notre Dame students, but as I that no American citizen , no matter what his financial status, cording to his own moral con­uncontrollable urge to be on nat­watched the game over national would be deprived of the right to bear arms. science that would reduce this ional TV, they might increase their television, I became increasingly It is hard to believe that in a country as rich as ours there are 
proud of the team and ashamed of perhaps as many as 50 million people who go to bed every night the spectators. Where was the without a gun under their pillows. Many of the poor are to blame legendary Notre Dame sport­for this condition. They would rather buy food with their money smanship I read about in Knute than guns. But a majority are not responsible for their plight. Rockne comic books when I was a Many are jobless, elderly, and children. They have tried to acquire kid? guns, but the cost, even for a Saturday night special, has been 
Why all the booing of the ex­beyoind their means. cellent Trojan band and of the In the past, the middle class has ignored them in the belief that Trojan team itself? Since when anyone who really wants a gun should pull himself up by his have "boos" ever been used except bootstraps and earn one. But in an urban society during a period of by empty-headed cowards who cruel inflation, it's not as easy to acquire a decent gun as it used to can't show respect to anyone else be. We can no longer stand idly by and say to these people, "You because they don't have respect can't have a gun unless you buy it yourself, the way we did." for themselves? And why the Gun stamps are the obvious solution to helping people who can't disruption around the goal post help themselves. At first it would be considered demeaning to during the Notre Dame Band's some to accept gun handouts from the government. But as time half-time show? went on I beleive that poor people would accept gun stamps in the 
Sister Mary Conrad 

same way they accept food stamps--as a temporary way of providing their families with the basic necessities of life. They
* The 0 bserver would no longer feel themselves inferior to the decent law-abiding man of means who can afford a $200 weapon. 'They\will have the 
Night Editor: Tim O'Reiley 
opportunity, that they have been deprived of so long, of using their 
Asst. Night Editor: Martha 
guns to settle family arguments without resorting to knives and 
Fanning 
hammers. 

Layout Staff: Marla 
Gub stamps will bring dignity and joy to their lives. 
Gallagher 
The next question is cost. Can the United States afford a gun
Day Editor: Pat Cuneo 
stamp program? the answer is yes. For one thing\it will be a big
Copy Reader: Ken Bradford 
boost to the handgun industry in this country, providing hundreds 
Editorials: Jim Eder 
of thousands of jobs for people. It will also encourage new am­
Features: Gregg Bangs 
munition factories to be built in depressed areas. A subsidized gun 
Sports: Bill Brink 
program in this country will give manufacturers an incentive to 
Typists: Karen Chlames, 
speed up production, and will guarantee them a profit in lean years
Marie McCarthy, Terri 
when weapon sales are down. 
Harlan, Candy Frankovelgla 
So not only the poor but everybody will benefit from gun stamps. 
Compugraphic: Bob Stein­
No country can boast it has done all for its people until it arms metz every man, woman and chile with a weapon. So if you really care
Night Controller: Howard 
for the plight of the poor, as Harlon B. Carter of the NRA does,
Halle 
write to your congressman today.
Ad Layout: Joe Graff, M.D. 


NO /JIG PEAl -IT5 A V£R.Y FAMILIAR. SCENARIO. 711£Y(}(JAf?REl. /JA/J YEU~. 
MOM ROARS OUTOf 71-1£  MY GO!),  
ORIVfJVAYINA SPRAY  11/0U[.{JN'r  
Of 6/?AV&l. ANO 7JIEN  YOU?!  
/?A{) (j()£5 wPIECES!  I  
r&-1  
~6,;/i~ 
...:~  

HECK, NO­
ITS JtJSTMOM's WAY Of 6£mN6 OUT OF 7H5lfO(JSC ONCE AN/JIWH!/..&1 
l 


~-~---~----­
Monday, October 27, 1975 the observer 


concerts 
fun, fun, fun, reuisited 
a reuiew by patrick small 
The concert started inauspiciously enough--late as usual. I had made it a point to he on time for a change but people were still filing into their seats when Ambrosia, the warm-up group, began their per­formance. Scanning the floor of the basketball court, I could not help but notice the hlue apparelled officers stationed near exists and the aisles. Surely they were not here to harass well-behaved BPach Boy fans. Surely not. 
Around 8:30, the lights were dimmed to a hazy blueness around the stage. As Am­brosia plugged in, the sound system played a montage of music which included some Scottish bagpipe bursts, the sitar intro to tlw Beatles' "Within You, Without You," 
charlie daniels on a winning streak 
for?" he queried aloud. No, officer. Jesus, officer. Someone just passed this to us, officer. Boy do we feel stupid, officer. It was ridiculous, at the moment to argue the merits of marijuana use, especially since we could have gotten caught holding the bag, as they say. And in Indiana, that might mean life imprisonment. Besides, I was on assignment with the Observer and, by God, I couldn't let them down. 
At any rate, he let us go after sifting our burned out but not quite fully consumed joint <a roach, I believe it's called) and flipping it disdainfully on the ground. 
After attending the J Geils concert I really thought things had changed around old N.D. However, the authorities at the 

.John Philip Sousa's "Stars and Stripes Forever," and "Somewhere Over the Hainbow," taken from the Wizard of Oz along with a little dialogue to boot. 
As Ambrosia began to play, a friend and I w<>re enjoying the enhancement of our sensibilities through the wicked weed in th<> form of a joint, and sharing it with som<> of our neighbors. Suddenly, I felt sonwone leaning hard on my back grasping for what was being passed. A marijuana junkie perhaps? No! It was none other than Mr. L. Kerr Jr., a sergeant, I believe, from the South Bend Police and boy, was he angry and inquisitive. 
My friend and myself were subsequently and unceremoniously hustled from our seats. "Is this worth getting thrown out 
records 
Only six and a half years ago, two brot­hers named Allman got together in .Jacksonville, Fla. and formed a rock band. 
A n<>w brand of rock was born -Southern Hock. Originally blues based, it soon branched out into the country and western field and has since gone on to begin ex­ploring the jazz realm. A multitude of bands followed the rise of Southern Rock, all following the formula of using mulitple lead guitars and driving dual solos. One of these bands that has followed the course set out by the Brothers Allman is the Charlie Daniels Band. 
"Nightrider is the third album for the hand itself but it is the fifth album for Charlie Daniels. For years, Charlie Daniels was known commercially as a redneck version of Jim Stafford and his brand of joke songs. Until last year, Charlie's big song was "Uneasy Rider", a semi-funny song about a freak being stuck in the bad part of Alabama <which, even today, is not a very funny situation). This song got all sorts of AM play and graced juke boxes in truck stops from Dallas to Charlestown. Its even on the juke box in t­he Huddle! Meanwhile, Charlie kept his self-respect alive by being one of the best studio musicians in the South, desired for his great guitar and fiddlin' ability. Finally, in early 1974 he finished getting t­ogether a group of excellent musicians, and under the tutilage and wizardry of Paul Hornsby, they came out with "Fire On the Mountain", the bands second album and one of the finest releases of that year. Now, in 1975, with a growing group of fans and a successful series of tours, the question was: could Charlie Daniels, with a track record of 1 and 4, come up with a second big album and keep success coming? 
Side One opens up with "Texas" a tribute to the Lone Star state and their ACC. due to all the vulgar dope smoking and God knows what else went on at that concert, have apparently decided to resume their Gestapo tactics. I'm finally beginning to realize how far and distant is decriminalization, just from the disdain in the officer's eyes. 
But let us return to Ambrosia. After my traumatic experience, it was hard to pay attention to the band, especially since I l1ad never heard them before. They're rather versatile--a bunch of keyboard, some electric 12-string, a drummer who doubled on flute. They were kind enough to call Notre Dame "ihe best school in the east and west and everything in between." "It's really good to be here in South Bend, Indiana", one of them said. 
They played for a while and finished 
current traveling companion, Jerry Jeff Walker. Its a jumping, country swing tune, common for that area of the country, with an emphasis on Charlie's fiddle playing. "Willie Jones" is a similar song, telling of a convict dreaming of his native Alabama with the refrain "Alabama could be Heaven if only the Lord was there". Here again, Charlie's fiddle is the dominant instrument but Joel DiGregorio's piano in the backgr-ound is the true star of the song. "Franklin Limestone" is the only song in the album that Daniels did not write. That honor goes to the other guitarist, Tom Crain, as well as most of the plaudits for the inspired guitar playing. The song starts out as a mellow love song a and ends in a Allmanesque lead guitar trade off. The 
next song, "Evil" starts off with th~ n~w bassist Charlie Hayward and p1amst DiGregorio enganed in a funky 1rythmn t­hat can only be discribed as "Cajun Rock." The lyrics speak of backwater swamp hexes amid the midnightmarsh~s while the music features the supurb slide guitar of the veri tile Mr. Daniels. The side closes with the extremely laid-back "Evertthing is Kinda All Right", with the message: "Can't get to California with an empty pack of Zig-Zags and out of tune, old guitar.... but evertthing is kinda all right". Its a nice, mellow, stoned out song that has a lot of commercial AM appeal, much 
like its predecessor: "Long Haired Country Boy". 
The other side opens with the over­worked "Funky Junky", which was the dubious second side to "Uneasy Rider" on their "Popular" 45. In this overhauled rendition, the 1 COB comes up with a sound something akin to the Texas boogie of ZZTop, complete with driving rythmn guitar and speaker-busting low bass lines. It all mellows out into a nice Allman type with what I would guess is a top-40 tune, "Holding on to Yesterday." It was received with some recognition and Ambrosia exited without an encore. After all, the crowd had come to see the Beach Boys and it was senseless to prolong their appearance. 
The Beach Boys received a scorching reception from the Irish audience. It would seem logical to assume that this was the first time that many of the crowd had seen the band, due to the totally overwhelming response. Either that or the audience might have been seeking some groovy background music as an alternative to the victory party that never took place, although most everybody was getting into the concert, as they say, dancing around the upper arena, etc. 
The Beach Boys' performance contained no surprises. Their live act has evolved into Oldies Night, which isn't surprising since they haven't recorded an album of 
new songs in almost three years. There were no new songs and none of the brilliant but seldom heard pleasures from the past that used'to crop up in past performances, songs like "Wonderful," "Long Promised Road," "Caroline No," and "God Only Knows." All that was heard was the tried but true verses that stimulate nostalgic excitement. 
But even in the context of a strict Oldies Night, there were problems. The concert began with a ragged version of Sloop John B in which the Boys managed to forget their lines, omit verses, and bungle some of the harmony. "Marcella," the best cut from So Touch <Carl and the Passions), exhibited Carl Wilson's low-pitched vocial weariness. Mike Love sang the beginning of "Do it Again" in a nasal parody of himself. "The Trader," another Carl Wilson song, showed Carl requesting more volume from his mike as his vocal wound up fighting the background instruments. 
Furthermore, the band as in­strumentalists left much to be desired. It is amazing that in at least fifteen years of playing guitar, Carl still hasn't noticeably improved. The bass and drums boomed all night, nothing subtle to be shown. The keyboards, which are turning out to be the band's basic instrument, were a blur, with no impressing soloing on moog or anything else. 
So what have we left? A bunch of old songs, heavy on sentiment, performed adequately, but received rejoicingly. The 
a reuiew by w. s. nichols 
jam afterwards but the song really isn't anything to write home to Tennessee about. The next song is by far the best song on the album and is the second best song to come out of any Southern band in a while <the Allman's "High Falls" off their new album, is by far the best). "Bir­mingham Blues" is actually a jazz in­fluenced song, .with a lot of the Southern formula mixed in. Everybody gets a chance to show off their abilities within the four minutes and thirty-seven seconds. The most notable is the drum section of Freddie Edwards and Don Murray in a painfully short drum solo and the electric piano of Joel DeGregorio. The guitars also 
make a showing for themselves, alter­nating between searing solos and ab­solutely flawless dual leads between Daniels and Crain. Personally, I am thrilled by dual leads, basically by my awe in that two guitarists can play exactly the same riff in exactly the same way at exactly the same speed. It sounds awful if you mess up but great if you do it right. The Charlie Daniels Band does it right. The next song is another country song in the same vein as "Everything is Kinda All Right, Long Haired Country Boy". There is some excellent pedal steel guitar by Toy Caldwell of Marchall Tucker fame but all in all, "Damn Good Cowboy" is a damn poor song. The album closes with the swinging "Tomorrow's Gonna Be another 
Day", led by fiddlin' Charlie Daniels. The whole song sounds reminiscent of that previous CDB epic of Southern Rock chauvinism: "The South's Gonna Do It Again", the song that every FM "progressive" station in the country ran into the ground this summer. I thinkand hope and pray that "Tomorrow's Gonna Be Another Day" will escape that fate. 
All in all, the album is an interesting collection of some of the dichotomy that is band did have its technical moments, though. The harmony on the softer songs, was at times magnificent, particularly "In My Room," and the end of "Heroes and Villains" with the exquisite "ah's" backing AI Jardine's vocal. 


For the record, the Beach Boys played about every song that made them famous. To wit: "Surfer Girl." "Little Deuce Coupe," "Catch a Wave," "California Girls," "Wouldn't It Be Nice," "Help Me Rhonda," "I Get Around," and "Good Vibrations" as well as an encore which featured "Barbara Ann," and "Fun, I<'un, Fun." " Every one of these songs was received with howls of delight and savored all the way through. The whole concert was very reminiscent of the Beach Boys' first live album, replete with the screams. 
So what of the concert? Everyone in the house loved it except one licked critic who was trying to find fault with the group in the first place and was more interested in antagonizing the South Bend Police than having a nice clean time. There is one in every bunch, I suppose. 
But let's not mince words. I love the Beach Boys and everything they've done. They're my ultimate favorite and I'm sad to see them at a standstill, both in per­forming and recording. I've seen them seven times and, I guess, the thrill is gone. 
Nevertheless, just the sheer presence of the band performing their past is enough to carry them as long as they want to go on. Let it be. 
!-i :"· -; -·~. 
prevalant in Southern Rock today. Some ofthe stuffeminds you of "Redneck Rock" of Jerry Jeff Walker, Willie Nesson, and the rest of the Austin gang. Some of the stuff is reminiscent of ZZTop and Creedence Clearwater Revival; gut-and­speaker-busting boogie rock. The rest is that new and curious combination of jazz and blues-based Southern Rock. The latter is by far the most exciting, the most demanding, and is the material that separates the true professionals from the not-so-great. It is also the latter style of music that the COB often plays in their live dates, which is probably the reason behind their growing appeal. Ifyou have a chance to see the Charlie Daniels Band in concert ­go! You will be amazed and moved probably so much that you will be per­spiring immensei:y·. The Charlie Daniels Band is a hot band and their third (or fifth, if you please) album is a winner. It's not as good as "Fire On the Mountain" and certainly not totally indicative of the band's total abilities <there are no live cut­s l, but it is a good collection in that it displays a wide range of their abilities. These people have been standing in the wings of the stage of rock stardom too long and not they are finally ready to break out. 
I think that Charlie Daniels is going to have a long winning streak going. 
Albums compliments of Mac's Record Rack 

----~-------------­
Monday, October 27, 1975
the observer 

Campus briefs • • • 
h 
the past, tickets have beenTroupe 0 f Frene available to each dormitory every four days. D dactors to perform ~arti.cipation in the program, ow name a 
tvhlle mcreased from last year, ·has averaged 55 students per director of Berkel
at Saint Mary's night. Eighty St.Mary's students 
On Nov. 2, at 2 p.m. Le Treteau de Paris will present their production of Racine's Phedre in O'Laughlin auditorium, Saint l\1ary's College. The performance, in French. is co-sponsored by the Departments of Modern 
Languages of Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's. 
Le Treteau de Paris is a troupe of seasoned French actors that Pach vear criss-crosses the United States and Canada presenting the best in French drama from the classic to the contemporary. This fall's production marks the Company's 18th year and 22nd American Tour. 
The company's tour serves a dual purpose, according to its directors. It first acquaints non­French speaking Americans with the world of French drama, through the immediacy of live production. It also provides a chance for the young actors to discover and explore America and its inhabitants. 
Tickets for the production are 

available from the ticket office of 
Saint Mary's. General Admission 
is $3.00. Student tickets are $2.00. 
For more information call 284­
4176. 
Dinner tickets lor St. Mary's at LaFortune 
Notre Dame students wishing to 

eat dinner at St. Mary's may now 
obtain tickets from the Student 
Government office on the second 
floor of LaFortune. 
Joe Corpora, Notre Dame co-ex 

commissioner, said he is aban­
doning the system of alloting 
tickets to dormitories on a rotating 
basis with the hope of increasing 
participation in the program. In 
~···········~ 
r_.· !IJere !§a,,··~,
: difference!!! ~ 
• ~MRE FOif: e 
: • McA'J Own lS '""
• ft ol taptrotnct •: 
:. D•·:r ..."'!ct" :.
ft SmlII cl1nn 
: LSAT Volum~nous IMimt :


: GRE :
study;'''"'I' 
• AJGSB 
COUI\U thlt llf •
! const1nlly updltrd • 
• DCA'J T•P• 'K'"''"lor :
• ft rnttwt ot c~u •
• cn••:r lessons lnd lor Ult e
• rft ol supplell!fnllry • 
: FLEX m1trr~ls : e Mike-ups lor

: ECFMG 
mossed lmons : 


! SAT : 
i NAT'L MED BDS i
.. . . .... .... 
• Most classes start 8 weeks • e prior to Exam • • Spring & Fall compacH • 
Courses on Boulder & Denver • 
: TEST OATES : e MCAT 5-76 NMB'S 6·76 e e OAT 1-76 ECFMG 1·76 e e LSAT 12·75 FLEX 12-75 e • GRE 12-75 ocat 1-76 • e ATGSB 1-76 CPAT 12·75 : : SAT 12-75 VAT 12·75 e 
e INDIANAPOLIS e • 6620 Gr..nahore Drove • 
: lnd•onopolra, Ind. 46220 : 
• 13171 842-1267 • • CHICAGO CENTER • 

.... 
=~~51 

: 

iMPIAN i 
• EDUCATIONAl CENTER e 
I(SI ....fPA~AIK)N 
~0' 

have taken advantage of the program per night, Corpora said. 
Tickets are for evening meals only and must be picked up before 5 p.m. Seventy-five tickets are controlled by the Student Government secretary and Cor­pora, who can be reached at 3111, has 25 tickets. 
Dinner at St. Mary's is served between 4:30 and 6:15p.m. 
Concert bus full; leaves tonight 
The bus for the Jefferson Starship concert trip has been filled, according to Student Union officials. 
The bus will leave the Notre Dame circle tonight at 5 p.m. Full payment for the tickets must be made at the Student Union ticket office between 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. today. 

Dr. Frederick W. Dow, professor of marketing at Notre Dame, has been named a director of Berkel Inc,. Laorte, one of the world's largest manufacturers of slicing machines and weighing equipment used by the food-retailing and food­serving industries. 
Dow held various positions in the Dow Chemical Company before joining the Umversity faculty in 1967. He is presently vice president and treasurer of Rambend Inc., a firm owning and operating a motel and convention center in South Bend. 
He is also a managing partner in Kritzeck, Carberry and Dow, management consultants, and chairman of the executive com­mittee fo Minority Ventures, Inc., a corporation wholly owned by Notre Dame and established to assist minority entrepreneurs in the South Bend area. 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31st 
HALLOWEEN SPECIAL 


''$.01 BEER'' 
FROM 7 P.M. TO 9 P.M. FROM 9-11 P.M. $.10 DRAFT FROM 11-1 A.M. $.20 DRAFT (WE WILL NOT MAKE CHANGE SO BRING PLENTY OF PENNIES) ENTERTAINMENT NIGHTLY 
RIVERBEND PUB 
441 E. LA SALLE AT NILES AVE. 

Acareer in law­
WithOUt law SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the seven courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 950 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 80 cities. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assis­tant, we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street, Philadelphia, P~nnsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 


Monday, October 27, 1975 
Roemer denies charges 
against any of the students who put 
"There are a lot of people
(continued from page 1) out the signs although he will be
who have worked hard to make 
asking Evans into his office to as many of the rectors or assistant Notre Dame a special place and I discuss his letter. No action wasrectors of the male dorms as he do not want to see their work taken nor will be taken about signs could reac, including an assistant damaged by some offensive 
signs." displayed at the game. "Thererector in Sorin who said he would would be no point to that now,"remove an offensive sign of which Roemer said that there would be Hoerner said.
no disciplinary action taken Hoerner reached five or six members of hall staffs in various hall'> and explained his policy. 
Hoerner was unaware. 
Cinemall!l
"What I objected to were signs using four-letter words or refering to prophylactics when the signs were on public display," Roemer 
''KING OF HEARTS'' 
('Xplained. "If students put such signs inside their rooms or inside 
STARRING: ALAN BATES
their halls I would not be con­cerned. I was concerned only with 
& GENEVIEVE BUJOLD
signs which offended non-student bypassers." 
Somp of the non-students who Wl're offended were Fr. Theodore TUESDAY WEDNES~AY· llt•sburgh, president of the University; I:<:dmund Stephan, 
OCT. 28 & 29
chairman of the Board of Trust­P('S; fo'r ..James Burtchaell, provost 8 p.m. 10 p.m.of the University; Fr. Edmund Joyce, ('Xecutive vice president of 
thP Bro. l'aczeny, vice-president of student 
University; and Just ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM 
::},~:~~(·;~~i~.~hh~~e~~~~~~~phw~=~ 1SMc-REPORfERs!T! 
he complained to Hoerner about ' ' the signs. Stephan, Paczeny and l ( ld d ) l 
. Joyce also compalined at the same : 0 an new : 
time on Thursday afternoon. Pa-' ' czeny told Hoerner to leave a nwt•ting of the Board of Trustee's t COlle tO a t Student Affairs Committee and A A 
take care of the signs Quickly. ' ' 
Quinlan case : MEETING : may establish t • t 

MORRISTOWN, N.J. <AP> ­Legal authorities say the deci­
Regilla ';::; 
I
sion in the Karen Anne Quinlan case may establish a legal t precedent fo any similar life-or­death cases. 
Testimony is scheduled to re­
t

sum(' here Monday in the suit brought by Miss Quinlan's par­
*discussion ofnews style, etc. t
ents to let their comatose daughter "die with dignity." t Aecording to The Research Group, Inc., the nation's largest t
*yearbook pix will also be
legal research service, the 
t

t~uinlan case "is a legally open question." t "No such cases have ever 
taken for the Blue Mantle 
been the subject of a written _________________Jt 
opinion," says Walter W. Mor­rison, president of the group. 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OP l«lVEMBER 3 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students Sign-up schedules are in Room 213, Main Building, Inter~iew times must be signed for in person. Law School sign-ups are at the Pre­Law Society Bulletin Boards, O'Shaughnessy Hall. The sign-up period at the Placement Bureau will be from 8:00 am. to 
5:00pm,, Monday through Thursday, 
room 160 t 

NOV. 3 Mo-;;:­ Celanese Corporation. BM in Ch.E, ME, Chem,  
Dayton's.  
B in AL and BA. MBA.  
Duke University, Grad. School of Business.  
B in all disciplines,  
Halcon Internat'l, Inc. and Scientific Design co.  
BM in CH,E,  
Syracuse University. School of Management-Grad. Prog.  
B IN ALL DISCIPLINES.  
U.S. Energy Research and Development Adm.  
BM in A. E., M.E., Ch.E., E,E,, M.E.N,O., Met,  
Univ. of Southern California. Grad. School of Arts  
and Sciences,  
All fields of letter, arts & sciences, with special  
emphasis on social sciences.  
Washington National Insurance Company,  
B in all disciplines,  
NOV, 4  Penn Central Transportation Co.  
~  Bin ALand BA. Bin Math., CE, EE, MEIO, ME. MBA, Procter &Gamble. Sales Management.  
BM in AL and BA. for immed, sales responsibilities  
leading to sales management.  
University of Rochester. Grad. School of Mgt.  
B in all disciplines.  
Tulane Univ, Grad, School of Bus. Adm.  
B in all disciplines.  
NOV. 4/5  Procter &Gamble co. Plant Management.  
Tues/Wed.  BM in ChE, ME, EE, CE. MBA with tech. undergrad, deg •  
The Trane Company.  
B in ME, CE. for Engr. Sales, Mfg. BM in ME for  
Dev. MBA with BS in Engr. for Prod. Mgt.  
NOV.4/5/6 Tu/Wed/Thur  Exxon Corporation and USA Affiliates. BMD in Ch.E. BM in ME and Met.  
American Grad. School of Internal Mgt.  
B in all disciplines.  
Associates Corporation.  
B in Acct. MBA.  
Christian Brothers. Education.  
BM in all disciplines.  
Federal Highway Administration.  
BM in CE.  
Georgetown Univ. School of Law.  
All interested students.  
Lever Brothers Company.  
B in AL and BA. MBA,  
Manufacturers National Bank.  
All BBA. MBA with Fin. background or cone.  
NOV. 6  Stauffer Chemical Company,  
Thurs.  BM in Ch.E.  
NOV.6/7  Coopers &Lybrand.  
Thurs/Fri.  B in Acct. MBA with Acct. background or cone,  
NOV. 7  Mellon Bank.  
~  Cancelled.  
Dean Witter &Co. Inc.  
MBA. BBA if candidate has some previous military  
or business experience.  

Employer Information, Alternatives, Teaching. Summer, Action/Peace Corps/Vista. Federal Service. Room 213, Administration Bldg. 10/23/75 
WANTED 

Would apprt>ciatt' (and ht>lp pay lor ridn ) to Chicago Oct. 31. Call Sht>vawn, 4 4812. 
Nt>Pd 2 or 4 GA Gt>orgia Tt>ch tiCkt'tS. Will pay $$. Ht>lp, call Mary 5135. 
Nl't>dt>d: two or four GA Ga. Tech tix. Call Steve at 287-2051. 
DPsperately net>d 2 GA tlckt>ts for Ga. TPch. Call Ron 3374. 
NEED3PITTTIX. CALL33320R 3334. 
NI'Pd GA Navy and Ga. TPch and Pitt tix. 1652. 
Wantt•d: 2 GA tix for Navy gamP. Call 4694. 
Nt•t>d 1 studPnt Navy ND ticket. Call Bt>th at 5294. 
OnP Ga. Tt>ch GA ticket needed Call Tom 1001. 
NPPd ride to Evansville on Oct. 31 and back Nov. 2. Pay part ex­penst>s. Mike 3133. 
Wanted-4 GA Navy tickets. Call Pat at 7128. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
For Sale:. Jewelry: finished
I still need 1-4 GA tix any home pieces, coral, turquoise, sterling
game. 1327. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. diamonds, engagement sets. Low Donoho 232-0746. prices. 234-7063. 
Nt>ed Navy and Ga. Tech football tix. Call 287-0742. 
Female Housemate(s) wanted 
Top quality stereo components 
now and next semt>ster. 5 minutes 
factory sealed, full warranty at 
to Angela ND Ave. Call between 5
NE'ed 4 Jethro Tull tix-good seats. super student discounts. Call Dan 1495. Elliott Enterprist>s at 233-3769
P.M. and 10 P.M. 289-4303. after 6 P.M. 
Free ride to Mass. for
NPed 1 GA ticket for Navy. Call Shotsi 289-8800. For Sale: Sanyo Doby cassette
Thanksgiving to any senior over 21 willing to sign for a rented van. 
player, new. 287-2088.

Other rides to pay all expenses. Call 1022 after 5 P.M. Ask for Jim. 
NOTICES LOST AND FOUND 

Off-Campus hockey. Any one 
Interested in playing off-campus "Gay Guide to Notre Dame-South hockey should see Bob Stackowiak Lost: Ladies gold watch. chain Bt>nd" Ont> dollar. Availablt> at and sign the rostt>r sheet. He will brokPn, North Quad. Call 255-7173. Pandora'!!. or write P.O. Box 206, be in the main lobby of LaFortune 
RPward. Notre Dame, IN 46556. from 7-7:30 P.M. tonight. If you can't make it phone 287-8753, this Friday between 3-5 P.M. 
NAVHAO INDIAN GIRL PRINT. 10" x 12", in green and brownWill do typing, experienced. Term 
frame. Stolen last wt>ek from papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233­
Lt>gal Aid Office in Law School.
8512. 

FOR SALE Sentimental value to owner. Please return to Law School or call 7015 if you have st>en it.
Typing, $.35 per page. Call Dan 
Quality stereo components at 20-40 
272-5549. 
percent savings. RMS Audio; 321 
S. Main ; 288·1681. (12-7 P.M.) 
Lost : Silver bracelet with white beads and cross at Chicago con­Jpfferson Starship Bus Trip Oct. 
For Sale: 1971 Triumph TR6 Steel cert. Sentimental value. Call 6808.
27. $10.50 Student Union Ticket 
belted radial tires, price reduced.
Office. 

Call 272-2844 after 5 P.M. 
Lost: coppt>r frame glasses; ACC vicinity or D 1 parking lot. 1264.
learn Sport Parachuting the safe 
S.tudent Government T-shirt
way at Oxbow Air Sports Center 2 
agency; Call Dave Bossy for top
week special-$35 jump course plus quality-low prices on custom FOR RENT$15 for first jump. Contact Dale made T·shirts. 233-3647.
683-8980 or John 1-782-3500. 
Room for rent. $50 a month. Share For Sate: Texas lnst. SR-10 Ex­kitchen and bath with one otht>rRight now, at this very moment, cellent condition. Will take best studt>nl. Call 232-9311 or 289-9533. 
someone, somewhere, is talking 
offer. Call 4960. Before 10 A.M. or after 5 P.M.
about Mary Tobin. 
Low RPnt. No restrictions, single students only, amplt' parking, malt' or female. Call after 6 P.M. only. 289 5237. 
PERSONALS 
Girls wanted to improve MBA's social lifE'. Inquire to: Roger D. 
P.0. Box 723, Notre Damt', In­diana. 
Joyce, Happy 2nd anniversary! It seems so long ago. Love & kisses, Pat. 
Kathy, Mitch. Debbie & Emil, lovt> roses. Klaybor. 
Stanford & Farley's pumpkin carving contest begins tonight­Pumpkins availablt> at North Dining Hall during dinner! 
Dear Herman Munster, Take me to the HALLOWEEN DANCE at Stepan on Friday, 9-1. 
For all your love, your caring and 
, most of all your friendship, I love you and thank you! Gratefully, Michelle. 
"Danny-Boy", What can I say after 3 yt>ars? Just hope It won't be anotht>r 3 years wait until you come to visit again. C.W. 
Happy Birthday, J.J. love,warmth, and bowling balls, leigi, Guam, Ring MY, Teddy, Emmie, Scarlt>t, and Flanner. 
It's Doris Mae's birthday. Call and wish ht>r a happy one. 5325. 



the observer Monday, October 27, 1975 
.~~~--------------~-----------­
Second half Bell tolls for Irish 
by Bill Brink Sports Editor The Irish might liken Ricky Bell to a contagious disease; you can only contain it so long, Eventually it breaks out all over. 
For the first half of their celebrated clash with Southern California the Irish effectively quarantined Bell, the Trojans' highly-touted tailback and the nation's leadilng rusher. But Bell broke loose in the second half and really made the Irish sick. The 6-2, 215 lb. junior from Los Angeles ran for 100 yards andl one touchdown after intermission, leading the Trojans to a 24-17 victory over the Irish in front of a national television audience and the sellout crowd that jammed Notre Dame Stadium Saturday afternoon. 
"Bell is a superstar," said Dan Devine. "Films don't do him justice, he's better in the flesh. We had defenses called to away the outside, and he still got outside." 
But not until the second half. In the first half Notre Dame's defense forced Bell inside and into the arms of Steve Niehaus, and the tailback gained only 65 yards in 25 carries. 
The Irish offense, meanwhile, got off to an explosive start. On their second play from scrimmage, starting quarterback Joe Montana handed off to AI Hunter, who raced around the right side for a 52 yard touchdown. Dave Reeve's conversion attempt was deflected, however, and ND led 6-0 with only 2:30 seconds gone in the game. 
That was to be it for the Irish offense, however. Except for a drive for a field goal early in the fourth quarter, the offense watched most of the game from the bench. Turnovers and stalled drives reduced the total number of offensive plays for the Irish to but 47 <compared to 75 for USC) and only 36 rushing plays. The Trojans controlled the ball for 17 minutes more than ND. 
After Hunter's score the two squads traded mistakes. Hunter fumbled on ND's next possession, Trojan quarterback Vince Evans halted his own SC tailback Ricky Bell runs into steve Niehaus as the Trojans downed the Irish 24_17 Saturday.drive by throwing an interception to John Dubenetzky on the Irish 2, then later fumbling into the hands of Willie Fry. Jerome Heavens lost a fumble 30 minutes in the-half on the field. at fullback, cracked through the greatest rivalries. after that. SC, after recovering Heavens' fumble, was forced to punt, but It was to hurt ND in the second half Trojan line and Montana hit ,;Our team played a courageous a holding penalty on ND game them the ball back and they drove as the tired defe!lse could no longer MacAfee on a pass to give the Irish ballgame," he continued. "They downfield to score on an Evans to Shelton Diggs pass from 10 yards out. get to the outside fast enough to a first and ten on SC's 15 yard line. played their hearts out. A close Genl Walker hit the extra point and the Trojans led 7-6 with 40 seconds stop Bell from turning the corner. But the coaches seemed content to game like this hinges on mistakes gone in the second quarter. Coupled with Mosi Taptupu's settle for the field goal as ND ran and their (USC's) mistakes maybe The Trojans drove again only to see Walker miss a 40 yard field goal drives through the middle, Bell's the ball into the line three times. weren't as glaring as ours. But our and when they got the ball back later, it led to the most controversial and ru.ns became more effective each Dave Reeve kicked a three-pointer kids are growing up fast. You exciting play of the ballgame. With fourth and 21 to go on their own 26 mmute. . . . from 27 yards out to put the Irish never like it when you lose, but I yard line, SC's Walker dropped back to punt. A Trojan lineman moved The lnsh took the kickoff m the up 17-14 with 11 :38left in the game. don't think this team's going to lose and the Irish stormed in. Luther Bradley blocked the punt and Tom second half ?ut ran onl~ four plays Few believfii!, however, that it many more games." Lopienski grabbed it and raced into the end zone. But the referee as Montana s pass was mtercepted would be the final score and it For the Trojans, Bell amassed mistakenly called the penalty on Notre Dame and SChad the chance to by Doug Hogan, who returned it to wasn't. ' 165 yards, tops in the game. Tatupu punt again. The call helped the Irish more than it hurt them. ND's 37. Tatupu and Bell took it Notre Dame's defense began to added 79. Evans completed 3 of 11 After an enraged Devine and an outraged Irish crowd had settled down, down to the two, where Bell feel the effects of all their playing passes for 42 yards, and had two USC attempted a second punt. But when Walker looked up after punting ~lun~ed forth~ touc~down. Walk~r time. They could not stop Tatupu passes intercepted. AI Hunter led he saw four fired-up Irish in the air in front of him and Mike Banks' hands tied It ~t 14 apiece with 10:04left m bursting through the middle or Bell the Irish rushers with 82 yards in on the ball. Lopienski again picked it up and took it in for the score. AI the third qu~rter. . racing around the end, and they twelve carries. Montana was also 3 Hunter threw a halfback option to Chris Haines for the two-point con-After tradmg punts, the lnsh had increasing difficulty tackling for 11 with two interceptions. 
vPr~ion and ND led 14-7 with 1:59 left in the half. offense began to get on track. either. USC used nine running Defensively, Steve Niehaus The Irish detense had had a tough workout, spending 21 of the 30 Steve Orsini. playing for Heavens plays to drive 71 yards for the proved again that he is the finestErnie T orriero ·=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:::!:!:::::::::::::!:!:!~~=~=~=~=~=~:::~:~:~:::::!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: score. Evans took the keeper in tackle in the country. The big from the one, and the Trojans led senior was the brick wall that the 21-17 with 7:28 to go. Trojans ran into for the first half, Montana, trying to lead the Irish and he was in on 17 tackles for the 
back in the final minutes, as he had game. 
the two previous weeks against "They have a very good 
North Carolina and Air Force, defensive team and are very
big Winner found that the Trojans did not strong," said John McKay about 
It seems to be a yearly occurence. just dropped the ball. Once we got our assignments crumble quite so easily. Danny the Irish. "They are even stronger 
The leaves change their hue, the days get together, we started moving offensively." Reece intercepted his pass on the than last year. We just played good 
Extra Points 

Irish 35 and six plays later Walker in the second half, we're a secondprogressively colder, the Notre Dame football season McKay is rapidly becoming a legend because he added a 35 yard field goal to give half team."
moves onward, winter signals its impending arrival continually has the ability to take a good team and SC a 24-17 lead with 4: 11 left in the All the Irish did agreeand Notre Dame loses to Southern California. As the mold it into a great one. He has uncanny football game. that Bell was outstanding, andyears go by there will be one more thing to add to that sense, always making the proper· secono half ad­Hunter took Walker's kickoff 44 much better than Anthony Davis,list. For USC coach .John McKay is rapidly proving justments, the type of fine tuning which makes good yards but Irish
that he is, unequivicoally, the best coach ever to football teams great. to NO's 45, the the SC tailback who had gained so 
could gain only two yards in three much publicity for his play againststalk the collegiate gridir,on. 
"Coach kept stressing to us before the game and at plays, and faced a fourth and eight ND the past three years. DevineSo what does a man say after he has just beaten halftime, that we're going to remember this game for situation with a little over three compared Bell to O.J. Simpson, the Notre Dame, a name that is synonomous with the rest of our lives," explained quarterback Vince minutes As the of Trojans'
supremacy in the collegiate game, for the sixth time Evans. left. tired as finest the fine 
defense was, and with the way USC tailbacks.
in nine years? Well, just ask McKay, a man who if he McKay realized just how strong the enigma of had been running, it seemed like "He's as strong as O.J.," he said. 
nevers wins again will go down in immortality Notre Dame was. So instead of holding a practice the best bet was to go for it. But "He maybe doesn't have thebecause the seemingly magical feats he perform when his team got to South Bend, McKay let his Devine elected to punt and the moves O.J. had, but he's sure asversus the Irish. Since a 51-0 Irish drubbing in 1966, players stroll around campus. It paid off. 
the affable McKay is 6-1-2 against Notre Dame, _Irish never saw the ball again. strong. I'd have to back up John
"We were walking around campus," explained the sixth-time in the last nine vears McKay and endorce him for thethree of those wins coming within the supposedly tackle Melvin Jackson, "and we came to the church. 
John McKay had befuddled the Heisman award."
immortal shadows of the Golden Dome. 
There were some tombstones of our starting offensive Irish and continued his uncanny Bell certainly gained a few votesMcKay greeted his Trojan Warriors by leaping players there (actually they were mock cardboard domination in one of football's in Saturday's game.
onto a table and shouting, "We're still alive in '75. 
epitaphs.) They read something like 'Here lies USC's "·~ You will always remember this. We never lost to offense--October 25, 1975--R.I.P. (Rest in Peace)'. ..~, '' Notre Dame in 1975. We came back. We will always 
Jackson smiled and one could tell that the best part :~ome back. And we'll come back again." 
of the story was yet to come. "We took them back to 
He looked across the room where he spotted the the hotel," Jackson continued. "We're gonna keepnumber 42 he was searching for. Quickly, McKay 'em," he laughed, "and someday show 'em to our shuffled the ball diagonally across the room. "And grandchildren.'' the Game Ball,.. he yelled over his players' roar, "to 
It is unfortunate for Trojan fans that McKay's love Mr. Ricky Bell." 
story with Notre Dame must end. It is believed byMcKa_y jumped down from his table and ambled 
most on the West Coast that he is headed for 
over to his locker where a bevy of reporters swamped Tampa of the NFL. 
him. The silver haired Trojan mentor saw the throng 
McKay's greatest triumphs have been against the 
coming as he did a little Irish jig and sidestepped Irish. A 25-0 win in Los Angeles led to his first national onto a stool. McKay reached into his locker for a championship and a 24-7 victory in 1967 in South cigar and pulled one out which was a little longer and 
Bend, one which ended a 28-year USC losing streak at thinner than the one Ara used to smoke. 
Notre Dame, led to another crown. Then there was "Well, gentlemen, what can I say?" McKay smiled. 
the Anthony Davis touchdown show, a 45-23 victory"It was a great game. We're happy to win. We just and another national championship. Last year'splayed well in the second half. We're a second half Trojan national title was anticlimactic to the most 
team. That's really aU I have to say." 
remarkable comeback in collegiate football history,Maybe that was all McKay had to say. But there the game in which USC trailed 24-6 at the half and was indeed more to be said. .What about the halftime 
won 55-24. adjustment made in the Troian speciality units? 
It seems absurd that one man can have such 
"We did change our personell at halftime on the devastating control over an opponent of equal kick teams," McKay explained. "We put many of our strength. It's even more absurd when that opponent is more experienced people in1key blocking spots. We Notre Dame. If McKay is a legend, then it is Notre switched !Mike Cordell back to center and got Gary Dame that made him so. Jeter in there. There wasn't really much to say at The handwriting is on the wall. Most likely, McKay 
halftime." will trounce UCLA Wtn the Pac-Etje:ht title and go on to 
If there wasn't much to say at halftime, then how a Rose Bowl victory over the Big Ten representative. can one explain the dominating 1second half per­Then he will once again occupy the throne of formance by the Trojans? supremacy in the collegiate football world. 
"There's no magic," McKay emphasized. 'It was If he does retire, turn to a NFL post or whatever, nothing fancy. We just started blocking. We just beat McKay will depart a big winner. That's the only way 
Tom Lopienski races into the end zone for N0 after a blocked punt in 
them up. In the first half we had men open. But we to go. the second quarter. 












