
~-~--~~------------~--------------­

server 
-st. mary's college
Vol. X, No. 35 Tuesday, October 21, 1975 
At faculty address 
Hesburgh cites universities' role 
hy \'alt>ric Zurblis and businessmen who will do "The University still needs great St·nior Starr Hcportcr anything for a profit. people and it will continue to grow. "I predict the future University The new vision needs resources, 
In the annual faculty address won't be permitted to remain finances and people, more than is llniversity President Fr. Theodor~ morally neutral. There are now available. A sense of values llesburgh said that universities problems that cannot be solved by differs between moral and in­are obligated to prepare people so scientific technology," Hesburgh tellectual problems." Ihat I hey can face today 's t•mphasized. Hesburgh then pointed out that t­problems. "My deep conviction, because of here will be a compulsory senior 
"Universities have been the the scarcity of persons needed, is values seminar implemented by 
center of the growth of knowledge, that we need to develop such his deciding vote. culture, and civilization. Moral persons ourselves, and that Notre judgt•ment and spiritual respon­Dame shouldn't be alone to look for Arrirmativt' Action sibility are needed," stated them," stated Hesburgh. llt•sburgh to the crowd of over 200 llesburgh called for the need of Hesburgh explained that Notre in Washington Hall. endowment in certain areas of the Dame does have an Affirmative 
IIPsburgh pointed out that university. Student financial aide, Action plan and it was one of the human rights, liberation and peace especially minority and graduate fe·,v that is approved. As of last canw about without the aid of the students, financial resources, .June, only 30 schools had approved 
univl'rsities. He said that those especially in the science area and plans. prl'pared by the universities must great teaching are "definite cont­"We're totally committed to this IP<HI thP way, intellectually and ours to every great university." plan," said University President. 
morally. llesburgh made two predictions "Many people make the 
"In the present and future, the for Ihe future. The first was that deFisions to find and appoint univt•rsitit•s can no longer attend to many changes are to come. "You qllalified people for the faculty. It thl' mind alone." The traditional can no more visualize the changes ha.•; to be something we're all transm i tll·rs of morality, such as now than you could visualize today committPd to." lhl' family and the Church, will in the vear 1925," commented In the past year, the number of llt'Pd lhP univt•rsities because IIPsburgh. The second was that faculty women has increased from prolilt•ms are no longer eentral to tlwsc changes would confront ~I to til. The undergraduate tlw individual. "Thl' problems of 111ankind with moral challenges. women have grown from 365 four lllt'll and women are not to mert>ly In light of these. Hesburgh made Yl'ars ago to 1350 today. survivP. but all Sl'rious problems two more predictions. namely that "It's obvious to all that our art' global." IIPshurgh said. universities will he at the heart of progress in bringing women 
llt·sburgh gavt> somt> examples gt•nerally preparing people for t­professors to the university Jags of intl'lligent people using unsound lwse changes and that a special behind bringing women to the JUdgPnwnt. such as lawyers giving university is needed to direct university,'' commented unfair trials. scientists creating change so that humans don't llt>sburgh. \\'Papons that can kill off mankind, destroy themselves. (continued on page 3) 
'Rules violated' 
SMC election invalidated 
h~ .lt•an l'owlt•y 

pn•ssing ft>ar that the class would "Everyone had access to the 
Staff Bt•porlt•r 

lw disillusioned and would not vote rules and anyone who violatedAs a rPsult ol atiPgea campa1gn again. t hl'lll should have been disciplined. 
'iolations. St. Mary's freshmen This new election is more of a slapwill vote in a second primary onHult•s Not (')par the wrist than discipline," she t>ll'cl ion for l'lass officers Wt>d­!'Xplained.flt•sdav Election commissioner Carrigan\'iot"ations involvt•d campaigning llt•bbil' Spangler. anotner l'Xpressed a similar view. 
on Pl('ct ion day. I uming in one pn•sidential hoppful. said that she "I posted the campaign rules at pl;lt form after I he deadline, knt>w that no one deliberately various places around campus; t­posting signs in Madeleva Hall and ,·iola!Pd the rules. 
lwy wt>re available in my room;posting too many signs Ill LeMans Spangler l'Xplained the and I Pxplained them to each llall. and tht> removal of each rPgulat ions hadn't been made candidate over the phone," she ot ht•r 's campaign posters by op­l'lt•ar in the beginning. 
said. 
pollt'llts. Another candidate, Jerri Plumb, Tlw first primary was held last felt that the new election was fair 
FrPslmwn Bead \\t•dnt•sday. with the run-off and just ht•cause it seemed that 

sdwdull'd for Friday, Oct. 17. Pvery ticket had a violation. Freshman reaction has varied. Slw also felt that the rules had
llow('ver. St. Mary's Studt>nl "I cared about it (the election) at 
Body !'resident .Joan McDermoltt 1101 been explained well enough. 
one point. but now, forget it," was call(•d for a lll'W election when she Hilaire Thomas, winner in the one opinion. lt•<mwd of the alleged campaign primary, explained that the reason Another student felt that the 
\'iolations. for the mix up was the "stupidity of should been
rult>s have made 
the election commissioner. She
1\lrl>ermott l'Xplained that dearer from the beginning. Yet nullifying previous election results didn't make the rules clear." another student felt that the 
;rnd calling for a new election are The remaining candidate, Paula dt>elion "wasn't organized and the Within lwr jurisdietion since, as st­Canol!, disagreed. rules weren 'I made clear." wll'nl body president, she has the 
final dl•cision on any policy. 
Kathy Carrigan, election l'omrnissioner at the time of the l'l('l'lion. said that she knew of the campaign violations but didn't think that they were serious Pnough to warrant drastic action. Sht• had planned, however, to t•nforee tlw rules more strictly in tlw final dection. 
('arrigan Ht•signs 

Slw has since resigned her posit­ion b('eause she felt her authority had been superceded when 1\ki>('rmott called for the new dt•elion. 
1\lary Lou Billek. vice-president for student affairs. is now acting l'lt>elions eom1nissioner. 
Tlw five presidential candidates almost unanimously agreed that t­hP campaign rules had not been 
rnadP dear to them. 
One candidate, Terry Touhy, said that she was glad that if there was soml'thing wrong with the pn•vious dection that it was going to lw corrected. ._ 
IlnwPver, she commented she was unsure of how to go about campaigning a second time, ex-
Joan McDermott, SMC's Student Body President, has called for new freshmen elections because of alleged campaign violations. (Photo by Tom Lose). 
r 
I. I ­
FR. HESBURGH predicted that changes will come and confront 
mankind with moral challenges in his annual faculty address. 
(Photo by Tony Chifaril 
Five-yeargrain deal set by U.S., Russia 
WASHINGTON (APl -The President (ieorge Meany said White House announced Mon­thP International Longshore­day a five-year grain deal with llll'n's Association dropped its the Soviet Union providing for t>mbargo on loading grain for Ihe purchase of at least six mil­Soviet ports. "This is good lion n1etric tons of wheat and news for Amt>rican consumers corn annually at prevailing and farmers," Meany said of market prices. the deal. 
Officials estimated the deal's The terms provide for the fol­worth at about $1 billion a wwing:year. It was hailed by Presi­I. The Soviet Union will buydent Ford as "a positive step" a minimum of six million met­in relations between the two su­ric tons of wheat and corn each perpowers and one that would y'ear with an option to buy an
benefit American farmers, additional two million tons
workers and consumers. 
without government-to-govern­In a parallel move, the Soviet nwnt consultation.

Union agreed to offer for sale 
2. The U.S. government re­

200.000 barrels of crude oil and 
~erved the right to reduce the

other petroleum products a day quantity to be sold in any one over the five-year period. Nego­crop year if the estimated totaltiations on final terms are to be ll.S. grain stockpile is less thancompleted later this month. 
225 miIIion tons.

There was no immediate in­:l. The deal begins Oct. I,dication on whether the oil 
1976, and runs to Sept. 30, 1981. 

would be sold below the cartel 4. The Soviets promise to tryprice fixed by the 13-nation Or­to space their purchases andganization of Petroleum Ex­shipnwnts as evenly as possibleporting Countries (OPEC>. But over t•ach year and that anyF:·nnk Zarb, head of the Feder­
additional sales undertaken

al Energy Administration, hint­from the current crop will noted at a discount. saying "we he of such a volume to disruptneed to have beneficial terms." 
tlw ll.S. market. 

Even though the Russian oil Secretary of Agriculture Earl
repr·esents a fraction of daily 
Butz estimated additional grainU.S. imports of some 5.8 mil­sales this year would amount tolion barrels, the administration no more than seven millionsought a cut-rate price as a ml'tric tons since the Hussianssign to OPEC that it cannot 

have been buying from other

wholly dominate prices on the 
sources during the American

world market. 
moratorium. He said the over­

With the announcement, 
all impact on bread pricesPresident Ford lifted the mora­would be "negligible," amount­torium he imposed last summer ing to about one penny on a 45­on grain sales after a poor Rus­cent loaf.

sian harvest led to the pur­chase of 9.8 million metric tons The current U.S. feed grain from ·American exporters. Ac­crop, which does not include cording to some economists, corn and wheat, is 183.6 million this probably will result in a metric tons. Corn production is jump of consumer prices here at a record 145.7 million metric over the next few months. tons with wheat also at a 
Sfmultaneously, AFL-CIO record 58.2 million tons. 



2 

r 
warld briefs 
NEW YORK NEW YORK (APl -Gov. Hugh L. Carey, meeting Monday with the state boar:d. that controls _N~w Y'?r~ ~ity'sfinances, said the panel is stnvmg to cut the c1ty s def~c~t-ndden budget while firing the fewest possible number of mumc1pal em­
ployees. " . ,
Carey said members had reached substantial agreement on how to get thousands of persons off the payroll as painlessly as possible. 
UNITED NATIONS, N.Y. (APl -Spain asked the Security Council on Monday to call urgently upon King Hassan II of Morocco to hold up a proposed march of 350,000 unarmed civilians into mineral-rich disputed Spanish Sahara. 
Costa Rca offered a resolution supporting the Spanish request, but Moroccan Ambassador Driss Slaoui urged the council to post­pone debate indefinitely to await negotiations among the parties to settle the problem. 
WASHING TON lAP) -President Ford is suffering from a sinus cold and slight fever that kept him fro!ll the Oval Office Monday for the first time since he became president. 
Press Secretary Ron Nessen, who announced Ford's illne~s, said the President "generally feels good except for na_sal congestu~n and coughing," and gave assurances there was nothmg more senously wrong .. 
an campus l:aday 
12 noon . 
3:30 pm-­5:15pm-­
7:30 pm-· 7:30pm-­8, 10 pm -­
8 pm-· 8 pm-­

Collective bargaining to be dllll scussed Thursday 
bv Joe Gill Stafr Heporter 

Fred Hueppe, a professor at St. John's University, will address members of the faculty on the pros and cons ot collective bargaining Thursday evening at the University Club. 
James Cushing, chairman of the Faculty Senate committee on eollective bargaining, said "Professor Hueppe was in on the beginning processes of collective bargaining at St. John's and is very active in it." 
"Professor Hueppe will be given the opportunity to present what processes are involved, and what is good or bad about them," he stated. 
The meeting is sponsored by the American Association of University Professors <AAUP> as a result of a bill passed at a 
S-T-R-E-T-C-H 
IYour budge1~ & shop at any a 
I GOODWILL 
I STORE
INEW AND USED FURNITURE TOYS 
I CLOTHING FOR EVERYONE 

I BOOKS JEANS GLASSWARE
IMISC. HARD WARE, ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES 
I I I I I I I I I 

lecture, "words in space: the roman landscapes of fellini and antonioni" by prof. james daugherty, rm. 361, o'shag. 
computer course, "CSMP -IBM's continuous simulation modeling prog., rm. 115, computer cent. 
vespers, evensong vespers, log chapel. 
meeting, charismatic prayer, Iafortune rathskeller. 
movie, "up the sandbox,'' streisand festival, o'laugh. aud., smc soc. comm., $1.25. 
movie, "wild strawberries," bergman festival, eng. aud., cac, $1. 
discussion, "lhe chilean experience: a round table discussion," room 1201, library. 
discus&ion, energy conference, lib. aud., s.u. academic comm. 
Faculty Senate meeting last month. 
The bill provided that two speakers from campuses which participate in collective bargaining and one speaker from the National chapter of the AAUP would address the Faculty Senate. 
Hueppe is the first of these speakers. 

The meeting will begin at 7:30, and the format includes Hueppe's speech, ar panel discussion and a general question period. Cushing. said that the panel is "prepared to ask questions that are both pro and eon collective bargaining." 
John Bouch, one of the members of the panel, pointed out, "The purpose of the meeting is in­formational. and each faculty member will later have to decide for himself about what choice is best for this university, as opposed to St. John's." 

________________________j  N. MAIN  255-0246  
I  ONE TWtf OFFER  
I  'NEW' MODERN STYLE LOUNGE CHAIR  
II  ONLY $8950 WHILE THEY LAST  

I L,_ 

ISHOP YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD GOODWILL STORES AND BENEFIT FROM OUR LOW PRICES ON CHOICE CLOTHING ITEMS AND 110'S OF OTHER 
~ 

......................1..·-··········-u.~....l.......TEMSTOHELPYOUSTRETCH YOUR BUDGET 
-COUPON­
25% OFF ON ALL WINTER COATS 
(EXPIRES OCT. 27th) 
SUPER STORE 1805 WESTERN 282-1030 
SOUTH BEND 702 S. MICH. 282-1215 
NILES 2 20 N. FRONT 683-8322 
MISHAWAKA 315 

United Way auction held to be 


tonight in 
by Kathy Hyrnl' Staff Reportt>r 
St. Mary's College will hold its third annual auction money for the tlnited Way Fund tonight during dinner in the Dining Hall. 
"I can't say enough about the lllt'rits of the cause" said Cathy Coyne. student chairperson of the l'Vent. 
Some of the items to be auc­tioned off are steak dinners for two at The Library, Ponderosa, The !\lark and Albert Pick; an antique beer keg from the 100 Center; gift cl'rtificates from Pier One, Dainty !\laid, J('nifer's and McDonald's. 
Dr. Mark Bambenek, chemistry professor will serve as auctioneer. 
There will be many other items auctioned including several cases of beer. Only administration and faculty members are eligible to bid on thl' beer. 
"The prospect of faculty fighting over the beer will hopefully initiate some excitement." Coyne com­tlll'lltl'd. 
A goal of $5,000 has been set by St. l\lary's this year. Although the auction is the major part of the drivl'. administration and faculty members have signed pledge cards for the drive. 
"Instead of asking the student body to eontribute a dollar each, we havl' the auction," Coyne ex­plained. 
A short movie explaining various llnited Way projects will be shown 
at ten-minute intervals during the auction. l\lany of the United Way projects 
The Observer is published dally 
duringtheconegesemesterexcept
vacations by the students of the 
~=i~ve·~'l£i£l::~~:~r1~~~~ 
semester ($16 per vear> trom The 
?nb:~:~:r 4~;~_a. s~~~~~d o:r::~ 
postage _paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 


SMC dining hall 
in the South Bend area are used as llrban League. field and educational research Coyne pointed out, "They're centers by St. Mary's students. getting educational experiences at 
These include the Alchoholism all these places. St. Mary's 
Council, Red Cross, the Catholic students really do benefit from the Social Service Center and the drive." 
SIR RICHARD'S
SMC NO 
women -HAIR STYLING-men 129 DIXIEWAY SOUTH 
(U.S. 31 NORTH) SUITE B 
(Across from Randall's Inn) 
Closed 
Mondays RICH CODDENS UNISEX 277-0734 

TUES. OCT. 21 
8:00PM 
LIBRARY AUDIT. 
WED. OCT. 22 8:00pm 

WASHINGTON HALL 
THURS. OCT. 23 8:00pm 
LIBRARY AUDIT. 
Mr. C. Hollis Mr. J. O'Connor Dr. T. Cashman 
Dr. H. Degraff 
Dr. J. Albert 
Mr. C. Hullwolfe 
Mr. D. Morris 
"Introduction and Economic Energy" 
"Solar Energy" 
"Wind Energy" 
"Human Energy" 
"Reclaimed Resources" 
"Free Enterprise Approach to Public Policy" 
"Systematic Approach to Public Policy" 

1~46~5~56~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~ 




ENERGY CONFERENCE 
l 
~~..............................~~------~~----------------------------il i 
. 
' .... l' 

J 
In the courtroom 1
, 
1
Murder suspect shot by victim's daughter 
--------------------------------------------------------~ 
1 Tue!:.day, October 21, 1975 the observer 3 1 
INDIANAPOLIS A man chaq.(ed with the murder of his fatlwr-in-law was shot to death in a nowded courtroom Mon­day by the dead man's despon­dent daughter in what police said was a "family feud." 
The victim. Nathaniel Sand­l'I'S. :14, Indianapolis, was shot once in the lower back as he and a brother stood with rela­tives and witnesses awaiting arraignmt•nt on first degree IIIUI'dl't' t'harges. lie died about an hour later in a hospital t•nH•rgt'nt'y room. 
!'olin• charged Sanders' sis-tl'r-in-law. Harriette Hoberta .Jont'S. :10. Indianapolis, with first degree murder in con­nection with the courtroom in­l'idt>nt. She was booked in the Marion County Jail. 
Sgt. Hobert Stout, a detective with the Marion County Sher­iff's office, said the shooting apparently climaxed a "family feud" that began 10 days ago wht•n Mrs. Jones' father, Harry Thomas, 59, Indianapolis, was lwaten to death in his home. Sanders and his brother, Rob­l'rt. :Ia, were charged with first dt>gree murder in connection with the beating. 
Stout said the two brothers, 1\lrs..Jones and a group of rela-
ID New Jersey case 

Doctor opposes euthanasia 
1\IOIUUSTOWN. N.J. IAPl ­1\an•n Ann (~uinlan's doctor tt•stifil'd 1\londay that the com­atost• young woman ''reacts to lighl. sound and pain." and he would rt'fUSl' to disconnect a 
n•spirator  that  has  kept  her  
hn·athing  for  the  past  six  
111011ths.  
llr.  Holwrt  .J.  1\lorse  was  the  

lirsl w1tness in a trial to decide wlwtht•r I\I iss t~uinlan 's parents t'an n'movP the respirator and ;!Ilow llwi r 21-yl'a r-old daughter to "du• with dignity." The (~uin­lans havl' said there is no hope lor rt'CO\'l'I'V. 
In his ~>pening statement, 1\lorst>s attorney, Halph Porzio, likl'nt'd llw t~uinlan suit to the Nazi atrocities and gas cham­hPJ'S of World War II. 
Ill' said the eout'l was being askt>d to "predicate a death spntt>ncl' on the quality of life" and askNI: "Where do you draw llw line?" in deciding if a pt'rson's Pxistence is so futile 
that lifl' should be ended. Tlw trial in this northern NPw .krsey city is expected to 
last  about  two  Wl'eks.  Superior  
Court  .Judge  Hobert  Muir  is  
prl'siding.  

l\1orsl' testified: "I would not discontinul' her from the res­pirator. Slw is not dead by any llll'dical t'l'itt•ria." 
1\lorsl'. who has been Miss l~uinlan's doctor for all but the first three days of her coma, charactt•rized her as a person "in a vt>getative state who has no inkling of what is happening around ht>r. 
"Wiwn you go to a zoo and show the animals food, it eonH'S over by instinct -Ka­rt'n doesn't move. I have never set•n lwr n'cognize me. Except for an act of God. she can't live a functional life." 
However, Morse said that by curt·ent nwdical definitions of dt•ath. Miss (~uinlan is alive and that there are times when 
Hesburgh: coeducation elevates student quality 
(continued from page 1) Concerning ethnic students, llt•sburgh said that this year there art• over tOO minority students attt•nding Notre Dame. Twenty­fivl' pPrcent are wonwn and 75 pt'rl't•nt are in the top ten of their graduating classes. llt•shurgh alsp gave some statistics on the incoming fresh­llll'n t'lass. Nineteen point three pt'rcent of the men were ranked fifth or above in their graduating rlasses as werP 44.4 percent of the woiiH'n. giving a total of 500 studt•nts. "Wt' also have the largPst pool of students ever to apply. despite decreases across tlw nation." stated !lPshnrPh 
lll'sburgh added that 82.4 per­Cl'nt woml'll and 91.9 percent men are in the top 20 percent. 
( 'o-Education 

"I think that will demonstrate to all that with co-education we have not lowPred but elevated the quality of the students," remarked llesburgh. 
Hesburgh recounted that Notre 

t ives and witnesses had ap­ments. had been beaten by Nathaniel'' Police said Mrs. Sanders and 1 The NPws quoted a witness to
proached the bench for the ar­
her three children were in her the courtroom shooting, who
raignnwnt Monday when Mrs. 
father's home when he was asked not to be identified, as
.Jones pulled a revolver from 
killed. Stout said he questioned saying Mrs.•Jones "was ex­
her purse and fired at Sanders 
Mrs. Sanders after the shooting trenwly nervous" before the ar­
before a court bailiff wrestled 
l\londay. "She had a large raignnwnt began. "She kept
the gun from her hand. 
number of bruises and con-saying, 'People should do some­Mrs.•Jones' husband, Willie tusions and a couple of black thing about these people getting J0 nes . had remained at home 'rtioi'...e..,s..:.·...s..to.,u,.t...,sa-.i,.d....•••S;.;h.;.;e;..,;s.;;;a;.;id-..s;;.;h.;,e_o_u.;.t.t;.;.JJ;..l..,b;.;o.;.;n.;;;d~.'-"...;.;th;;.;e;...;w,;,;i~ll:.:.;le:;;s;::s~sa::.i::::d:.;.. 
Monday with the couple's three­wt>ek-old child. He told the In­dianapolis News his wife spent the night talking with her sis­ter. Carolyn Sanders, Nath­aniel's wife. Jones said thl' two womt'll wt>re despondent over the dt>ath of their father and a delay in his funeral arrange­
shp  can  breathe  without  the  
n•spirator  fastened  to  her  
throat.  
"No  research  I've done  has  

shown any reason to stop treat­llll'nt." Morse said. 
l\1r. and Mrs. Joseph T. Quin­lan. thl' girl's adoptive parents, Wl'l'l' in eourt accompanied by t h rl'e Hom an Catholic priests. Till' t~uinlans have described tht'nHwlves as devout Catholics. 
1\liss (~uinlan has been in a coma in St. Clare's Hospital since April. when she apparent-, ly ingPsted by accident a com­bination of alcohol and tranquil­izers. All sides in the case agree that 1\aren is alive, and for this reason the case skirts the issue of the definition of "death." Doctors say she is alive by all mPdieal standards, including brain activity as shown by elec­tronic monitoring. lkcause Miss Quinlan is com­atose and therefore mentally incompetent. the court is being asked to let her adoptive father make a decision for her to re­move the respirator based on his knowledge of her wishes. 
St. Mary's student uninjured when 
I>ame had a relatively smooth' car overturns 
passage into the co-educational status. Now with women present and growing in the student body, faculty and administration, llt•sburgh wonders why it didn't happen sooner. "It's more civilized now," joked Hesburgh. 
"Notre Dame, which is named aftl'r a woman, will graduate a wpll-t•ducatPd woman that will l'nrich our whole society more than they have in the past," stated lksburgh. 
lll•sburgh wants to raise Notre Dame to a higher performance in the future. In the future, enormous financial ehallenges and spiritual problems are to be faced. "I pray that all of us may meet this ehallenge and fulfill the promise of this place," stated Hesburgh. 
A St. Mary's student was ap­parently uninjured last night after hPr car overturned at a curve on Douglas Hoad. 
Sgt. Krill from Notre Dame Security said the girl failed to make the turn properly and the car rolled into the front yard of a residence. 
ThP accident occurre.O directly behind Stepan Center at ap­proximately 11 p.m. 
According to Krill, the girl was alone and apparently unhurt. He said the St. Joseph County Sheriff's Office is investigating the ac­cident. 
Krill added he did not know if any summonses would be issued to the driver, but he said there may be one for excessive speed. 

LIBRARY 
ANNOUNCES 
PRE-SO. CAL WARM-UP 
TUESDAY NIGHT 
MIXED DRINKS $.50 ALL PIZZAS $2.00 
ALSO: 100 SHORT SLEEVE JERSEYS TO BE GIVEN AWAY 
Compliments of The General Store. Where fashion is keynote. 



CHIMES 

NOW ACCEPTING Fiction, Non-Fiction, Poetry, Photography and Art for Spring Publication. 
DEADLINE is December 1st. 
SUBMIT TO: Chimes c/o Max Westler 311 Madaleva SMC. All Work Will Be Returned. 

ER~IDH 

ilhffi iEStl\7Hh 
OCT. 19-24 
TUES. "Wild Strawberries" · 8 & 10 WED. "The Silence" · 8 & 10 FRI. "Cries &Whispers· 7 &10 
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM 
ADMISSION $1 
CINEMA 76 


Acareer in taw­

WilhOUIIBW SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the seven courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 950 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 80 cities. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assis­tant, we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER12 

The Institute for 
Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 

~-----~------~­






The Observer 
on independentsrudentnewspo~ 
Foundt>d November 3, 1966 

Terry Keeney  Editor-in-chief  
Tom Modglin  Business Manager  
Tom Whelan  Advertising Manager  

EDITORIAL BOARD AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin. Editorial Editor; KPn Girruard. Nt>ws Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil, Features Editor; Chris Smith, PhOto Editor 
N~w• 2~9J~I~7~1S~-----~B~u~""~~~n~28~J~7~47~1--------------~ 
Tuesday', October 21, 1975 


L.I.F.E. 
Denied 

On October I, 1975, the Notre Ilame-St. Mary's Students for 
L.I.F.E. applied for student ~overnmmt funds for this year. Wl• are committed to educating the ND-SMC community to the horrifying reality of abortion. To do this we need funds --to bring in well-known speakers, to advertise alternatives to abortion, etc. In short. we need money just as any other organization committed to serving others. 
The Student Government 
decided for the third year in a row 
11ot to fund us. John Hargrave, the 
Student Government Treasurer, 
told us that the Student Govern­
nwnt could not give us any money 
because they would be committing 
themselves to our group. Only 
immoral or amoral governments 
are worried about commitment. 
But even if one can say that it is not the role of Student Government to commit themselves, then we must say that the Student 
Government has committe·d tht•mselves to every other organization they gave money to. Tl'lling us they cannot commit themselves to our group is either faulty reasoning or a lie. 
We then spoke with Ed Byrne, Student Body President. He told us that we were refused moneyon several accounts. We are an issue­oriented group and issue-oriented groups should raise their own money. We will not deny that we are an issue-oriented group--yes!, our issue is people. Raise our own money? We are trying. We have operated a concession stand 
already and plan to do so again 
before the home football games. 
The Student Body President also 
said that many of the organizations 
who were given money, received it 
because they have already tried to 
raise money. We cannot 
remember when the Society of 
lljaama tried to raise money. Did 
they receive money because they 
are a minority? And so there 
would be no flack? The injustice 
being committed is awful. 
Ed Bvrne also told us that the Board foilowed the decisions of past administrations. i.e. the past two years we were refused money. What an innovative govern­
ment-.! 
Finally we must say th~t we have been discriminated against. Bt>cause abortion is not the "popular" issue these days, govemments such as the Student Government of the University of Notre Dame would rather play Pontius Pilate and wash their hands of the whole matter. 
Wt• call upon the Student Government not only to fund us, hut also to examine its role and to live up to its potential moral leadership and to speak out for l'Very human being's right to live. 
.Joseph \'ito Corpora Paul Lanl'OS .John ·o·Lear .lot• Tatmun 1\l:u·~· Wiegand .John Denver ,\nn C. Schmidt Alison Drumm Patrick Cole Elizabeth B. Bungarduer (;n•gory Giebler Karen E. Lippert Paul Taylor .lmtn F. \\'iegand 1\lary Bak Anne Molnar \'incent J. Barbera 

commentary 
Ring Around the Classroom 
bob mader 
Collegiate Seminar, that galloping scn,1tiny of the great books, is about as popular as mononucleosis. Students who like the course term it "useless" while others are Jess charitable. 
At least my professor is realistic. One of his first statements was "I assume most of you are here against your will." That indeed seems to be the case. 
The mo~t often heard complaint is that the books are boring, the professor 1s boring, and the discussions are boring, which is quite a large allotment of boredom for a single class. The discussions are handy for writing letters, planning the weekend and having fan­tasies about those of the opposite sex. According to some of my classmates, the latter is one of the more popular pastimes. 
Other students question whether a professor with a background in history. for example, can adequately direct a class dealing with Plato or Aristotle. Is there more faking than directing~ 
Not only that. but the professor brings with him a bias toward the book according to his particular field. One professor with a bent for psychology analyzed Homer's Odyssey in Freudian terms. Did you know Clytemnestra was phallic aggressive? In my yGunger days I was a classics freak, so I know just enough about Homer and Greek culture to realize that's the biggest crock of crap I've ever heard. It jus ain't possible, Jack. 
Another problem is that many of the students don't know what they are talking about, won't get adequate instruction in the course of the seminar. and the discussions end up piddling around the subject without getting to the point. 
A single class may touch upon the American eagle with beak l'xtended. homosexuality, foul leprosy, life, liberty , the pursuit of happiness, tubrous begonias, funny hats, grain sales to Hussia and the Boston Naval Shipyards. During this time the deceased author has rolled several times in his grave, covered his ears and is contemplating haunting the class. 
You probably think I'm ridiculing Collegiate Seminar, right? Well. yes and no. Now after that totally ambiguous and confusing statement I'll attempt to explain myself. 
Although a great number of Arts and Letters students like to delude themselves that they're well-read, they haven't read all the books in the seminar, and some of the authors are just meaningless names. Have you ever read Apuleius? Not in the last ten minutes, 
huh'1 
Supporters, (or apologists, if you prefer) of the seminar maintain that the purpose of the class is not an in-depth study of the philosophy. literature, quirks, or whatever of the timeless author of 
the week, but simply an introduction to his work. 
I know that right now everyone who has taken and hated Collegiate Seminar is telling the person across the lunchroom table from him that I'm an ignorant buffoon, an abandoned reprobate and an object more worthyof contempt than ridicule. But before you turn to the sports page and read about how wonderful Dan Devine is today, read on, because you might find something that's never occurred to you before. 
Since I must give credit where it's due, the person behind this idea is Professor Adolph Soens, and it goes something like this. 
Someone once defined a lecture as "the process by which the notes of the teacher become the notes of the student without passing through the minds of either." A certain amount of mental laziness tends to set in because of the educational process we've gone through. 
Seminar. on the other hand, is what Soens calls "a Socratic course in a Germanic university system." Good God, mom and dad pay five grand a year and this guy isn't teaching us anything. We have to teach ourselves which is a blasted imposition. Original thought is a burden because so few of us have ever done it. I think Soens' statement bears some consideration, because he may be very correct. 
All this is just dandy, but we have to get down to the basic reality of whether the whole thing works or not. 
Personnally, I think Collegiate Seminar, no matter how lofty its goals, or how good it is in theory, is a flop. I've talked to people who have been so totally alienate d from the great books by Collegiate Seminar that the mere mention of Dante can make them Jose their lunch. 
Dean Isabel Charles' appointment of a committee to reevaluate the seminar is a smart move. If Collegiate Seminar is dropped as a college requirement I don't think many future Arts and Letters students will be heartbroken. 



Tuesday, October 21, 1975 
the observer 

--------------------------~~~~~~~~------­
"Professional" is a fitting description for the Chicago concert last night at the 
A.C.C. f<'rorn a strictly-adhered-to-format to a good natured rapport with a very t•nthusiastic audience, the well seasoned group put on a slick performance. 
Playing two sets of roughly one hour each, Chicago mixed new and old material with practically all of their well known hits. After opening with a rwwer piece, the group proceeded into "Does Anybody Know What Time It Is?" which seemingly caught and kept the audience's attention. This was followed by a new composition of lead guitarist Terry Kath which was trailed by another familiar song. This format was adherred to throughout the show and proved to lw successful. Not only did it mix old with new, but it kept the audience in touch throughout the performance. 
Anotht•r aspect of the show that kept the audience in touch was the stage presccnce of the group. Collectively and individually, {'hicago was a very int­t•rcsting group to both watch and listen. When performing their better known songs, the attention generally shifted to the lead vocalists who were either guitarists Kath, bass player Peter Cetera or keyboard man Robert Lamm. 
Lamnr, who along with Kath writes most of Chicago's material, handles the middle range of Chicago's vocal harmonies as well as singing leads in such songs as "Docs Anybody Know . ."In addition to his singing, Lamm was competent on several keyboard instruments he played throughout the night. The addition of a synthesizer to his repetoire added a different, but interesting approach to ('hkago's usual jazzy brass sound. 
If Lamm supplied the middle range vocals, then Kath was the lower end of the scale. llis leading vocals was the ever familiar "Colour My World", and he delivered u strong lead guitar solo in the show closing "25 or 6 to 4." Cetera is is the high strain of the trio and sang to the lead vocal in most of their newer hits which included, among others, "Old Days" and "Feelin' Stonger Every Day." ( '<'tera playPd a steady bass throughout and romped around every corner of the stage to seemingly make sure everybody in the audience got to see some part of tlw bund. 
The group also made sure they got to show off their instrumental talents, 
purticularly in the second half of the show. One of the first songs in this set was 
"Hepetoire" a song designed to let each member of the band take a solo. Walter 
Parazaider, who all too often is just known as the flutist in "Colour My World," 
gave a fine sax solo which gave way to the high strained trumpet of Lee 
Loughnane. 
Loughnane has some kind of endurance--he went the whole show at full blast 
playing generally high notes and did not falter once. 
However, the song was stolen by drummer Danny Seraphine who gave an 
incredibly fast, clean and interesting solo that never came close to lasping into 
horPdom like so many drum solos do. Seraphine later collaborated with per­
cussionist Laudir DeOliverira in a piece that combined and complimented the 
percussionists conga playing ability and Serphine's ample jazz-rock drumming 
talent . 
In the middle of all this was James Pankow, who not only played trombone 
(and quite well at that) but acted as emcee and crowd cheerleader. To say the 
least, ht• was successful in all three roles. 
Tht> show was not completely perfect. The wind instruments missed a few 
notes in the beginning and the sound mix was such that Pankow's trombone 
eame on a little too strongly at close quarters while Cetera's base was too loud 
over the large speakers. However, these small details did nothing to damper the 
performance which was strong throughout. 
Two other pulses going for the show were found in its stage and sound set-up. 
Tlw stage was set up so practically everybody sitting in front of or to the side of 
had a good view of the performance. This was, in part, achieved by the raising 
of the vast majority of column speakers. The raising of the speakers also 
seeJnt•d to project a much clearer sound (especially to the bleacher sections) th­
lhan the standard set-up. Chil'al-(o knew what the audience wanted to hear. They gave them that and a little more along with a touch of class which added up to fine evening at the ACC. 

wilsons, Jardine, foue---here come the beach bo~s 
"\\"lwn I grow to ht• a man \\"ill I dil{ tht• samt• things that turned mr 
1111 ll~ ll kid'~ 
\\ill I look hat'k and say that I wish I hadn't tlmu• "hat I tlid'~" --­
"When I Grow Up (To Be A Manl," was written and recorded by the Beach Boys ovpr len summers ago when Brian Wilson, I>Pnnis Wilson, Carl Wilson, Alan Jardine and Michael Love were in their late teens and full of the same youthful, good vibrations which they possess today. Wlwther or not the group still "dig the sanw things that turned them on as a kid?" isn't as important as the fact that their fans, the surf 'n sun generation of then and now do "dig the same things" The Bt•ach Boys game them and are in fact profoundly "turned on" by tunes like "Surfin' Safari," "Surfer Girl," "Be True to Your School," "1 get Around," "Don't Worry Baby," "Help Me Rhonda," "California Girls," among oceans of others. 
Those "California Girls," which The Beach Boys sung about circa early sixties are now California women. The Beach Boys themselves could be regarded as The BPach Men but their musical repertoire of hit records re-<:reates a timelessness, a sense of eternity, not just yesterday or today, but always. Beach ,Boys music suspends their own lyrical question about what will things be like "When I grow Up," high above a never never wave somewhere in that swelling surf where music was, is, and will always be "swell," and where perennial teenagers will always dig and eherish groovy times listening to Beach Boys grooves. 
Beginning with their earliest efforts that n•rtainly were responsible for the worldwide surfing phenomenon --they at one time made the Fender Telecaster a household word and every . group necessity --"Carl and the Passions" from Hawthorne, California have been true innovators. Their influence in promulgating "California Style" is ob­vious; their recording of "concept" albums set a precedent that has affected t'\"l'I'Y album recorded since by anyone. 
The Beach Boys were, in fact, the first successful contemporary "concept" group --a "surf band"--which evolved naturally inland to The Beach Boys, neither boys nor of the beach. 
Through all of this, the primary motivation for the group has been the music itself. Brian Wilson, Dennis Wilson, Carl Wilson, Alan Jardine and Michael Love --the +"original" Beach Boys and the nucleus around which The Beach Boys are structured today --are utilizing their energies to grow as musicians. As a musical endeavor, they are still evolving, ehanging, growing. These changes are noticeable in their onstage demeanor, their musicianship that has progressed with the technology of today, their willingness to experiment with form and content, and their expansion of the traveling band format that now includes such things as tympani, electronic in­struments and whatever else is needed to present their music totally, not a slim copy or packaged self-parody. As always, what The Beach Boys derivive in the studio, The Beach Boys play onstage --all over the world. 
Naturally, as individuals The Beach Boys have pursued their separate interests ranging from a dedication to the principles of Transcendental Meditation, to acting; and, typically, the energies invested in such endeavors as these are of the same intensity with which The Beach Boys approach their music. 
As irJ any evolving creative·effort, there have been changes; and the personnel is an 6Kample. But The Beach Boys of today are ti-re same Beach Boys that changed the sound ?nd shape of American music. Brian Wilson now concentrates his energy in the recording studio and on his writing, while Cart, Dennis, Alan and Michael, along with other carefully selected musicians, devote a large part of their time to playing music on the road. 
Capitol Records recently released another LP of Beach Boys timeless tune troves aptly called "Spirit of America," which ('Ould also be interpreted as the musical backbeat of America that in­scrutible power that takes the h~nds off of the clock and makes them clap to the beat of good vibrations, of good times. 
That last lyric line of "Will I Look back and say that I ~ish 1 hadn't done what I did," is answered with a rhetoric "No!" rrom both The Beach Boys and their brigade of faithful followers. This was particularly made evident last year when The Beach Boys experienced the biggest grossing concert year of their career. The 
H.G. Wells Time Machine or rather the Wilson-Jardine-Love machine is as magical, as rejuvenating, and as fresh and energetic as it ever was. 
6 

the observer Tuesday, October 21, 1975 
Crime issue highlights S.B. mayoral race 

. by Cathy Cannon Staff Ht>portt'r 

The three candidates· for mayor of South Bend discussed their programs to reduce crime and improve the downtown area in the city. 
Development of a citizen's crime patrol and campaign to attract new business to South Bend are the chief proposals of .John Slafkosk~·, Hepublican candidate for mayor of South Bend. 
"The chief problems in South Bt>nd are crime and economic iustability. I am the only candidat­" with specific proposals on these issues," Slatfi<osky stated Sat­urday. He proposed the formation of citizen patrol groups to be called the Neighborhood Assistance Bureau. 
"Wt• studied the communities who have had a decrease in crime, according to FBI reports, to see what they had done. We found in n1any of these cities citizen patrol 1-!,·oups had been formed," Slafkoskv said.
... 
''These are no vigilantes, nor are thev armed. They are a trained group of volunteers, screened by l'XJ.ll'rts. who will patrol certain an•as of the city." he explained. 
Slafkosky added the Neigh­borhood Assistance Bureau is the most reasonable, effective and l'conom ic way to reduce the crime rate. · 
If elected he will form an in­dustrial team to attract new business to the South Bend area, Slafkosky said. 
He explained, "Our unem­ployment rate of 8.2 percent is not real bad but it could be better. South Bend has many assets which will attract companies to the vicinity if they are publicized." 
Slafkosky also said he will work for an elected rather than an ap­pointed sci10ol board. 
He added, "With a budget of $35 million a year. the school board should be directly accountable to the voters since the money comes from their j.Jroperty taxes." 
Slafkosky criticized his Democratic opponent Peter Nemeth for wanting to eliminate the office of Public Safety Direct-school board, there is a legal process they can follow to get one. If this happens I would certainly 
not object," Nemeth noted. 
Nemeth, a graduate of Columbia Law School. served as Deputy Prosecuting Attorney for St. Joseph County for four years. 
He is a former member of the South Bend Common Council and Committee on Economic' Development. 
Eliminatt' Patronage 
The elimination of patronage politics and a reduction in the city's budget are the aims of Honald Krmwwitter, Independent candidate for mayor. 
The elimination of patronage appointments will make the city government more efficient, Kronewitter maintained. 
"More efficient government means a budget cut will be possible. I will take a 10 percent ntt in salary if elected to demonst­rate my good faith on this issue," he pointed out. 
Ht> added, "I want to continue efforts to implement the merit system in the fire and police dt>partnwnts." 
Kronewitter mentioned the election of fire and police chiefs by the respective departments as one possibility. 
Kronewitter said he will in­Yestigate the possibility of setting up police substations around the city as part of his crime preven­tion program. 
Jle also said he wants to increase the salaries of policemen. and firemen to attract more people to the force. 

Another plank in his program is the construction of a new Juvenile Iietention Center. 
Kronewitter opposed the for­mation of the Neighborhood Assistance Bureau, saying, "I've said before specialists should handle special jobs. The police should handle crime. "Kronewitter does not think the appointment of school board members is a problem. 
He said it's not whether tt.t nwmbers are elected or appointed that is important; it is who they are. 
"I would try to appoint people with recent teaching experience who know what is going on in the schools." he added. 
Kronewitter said he sees no 
the observer 

Night Editor: Bob Brink Ass't Night Editor: Maureen Flynn layout:Tim O'Reiley, Jim Tsalikis Day Editor: Pat Cuneo Copy Reader: Kathy Mills Features: Tom O'Neil, late night relief--G.B. Bangs Sports: Bill Brink Typists: Terri Harlan , Mary Tobin Joan Martel Compugraphic: Morey Blinder Night Controller: Tom O'Neil 

reason for doing away with the racting contractors to the area to office of Public Safety Director. build a commercial center or 
He added, "I think the cabinet apartments. form of government is an efficient He proposed starting an ar­way to run the city and also a way chitecture review board in the city. to reduce patronage." The board would decide if older 
buildings should be torn down or Impro\·e Downtown Art'a renovated. Kronewitter graduated from 

The improvement of the quality Indiana University. of life in the downtown area is lie spent four years in the Air imperative, according to. Force before assuming his present Kronewitter. He said the city position as an art teacher at Clay should assume the initiative in att· l\liddle School. 
1::::::::;:::?.!:!:!8!:!:~?.;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~~=~:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-:·:·:·:·:·:·:•::::::::~~ 

c 
BEER 
TUESDAY 7-9 
FAT WALLY'S 

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::: 
r----------------~ 
t TONY'S t lSHOE SHOP &REPAIR! 
lJUNGSCHUE BOOTS l 
t FULL LEATHER LINED / t t VIBRAM CLIMBING SOLE t t NOW ONLY $45.00 t 
: OPEN 
l t MON.-FRI. 9-5, SAT. 10-12 t t CALL 283-1144 t 
}~~~~~~~~~~----~~~~~~ ...... 
Go home on Allegheny. And save yourself some money. We offer a wide variety of discount travel plans with big savings for groups and individuals. 
The Liberty Fare. You can go home and a lot of other places besides, with unlimited travel at one low price. You get a choice of 3 plans, too-7 days for $129, 14 days for $149 and 21 days for$179. Good everywhere we fly, except Canada. 
Group 10. Save up to 33YJ% roundtrip (up to 20% one way). Groups of lO or more _save when they purchase tickets 48 hours in advance and take off together. And you can each return separately, if you like. Good everywhere we fly. 
Group 4-9. Save up to 20% roundtrip. Groups of 4 to 9 save when you make reservations 48 hours in advance and fly together to and from selected cities. Stay at least 3 but no more than 30 days. 
Leave before noon on weekdays­anytime on weekends. 
Weekend. Save up to 25% on your roundtrip ticket when you go and return on a Saturday or Sunday. 
For complete information on all of our money-saving discount travel plans and flight reservations. see your Travel Agent or call your local Allegheny Airlines reserva­tions number. And get ready to go home or anywhere else. 

--------------------------------------------------------------~---------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, October 21, 1975 the observer 7 
------------------------------~~~ ----·· ---
Bayh to declare '76 presidential candidacy 
WASHINGTON <AP> -Sen. 
Birch 1-:. Bayh, the youthful­
looking 47-year-old Indiana 
I>t-mocrat whose constitutional 
anwndnwnt put Gl'rald Ford in 
tht• White House, formally joins 
his party's presidential chase 
Tuesday as one of the favorites. 
The ninth Democrat to de­
clare his intentions, Bayh is 
barely visible in public opinion 
polls hut is generally believed 
by party officials to have broad 
pott•ntial for support in a num­
lwr of key areas. 
Ill' hopes to put together a l'oalition of hackers from or­ganizl'd labor, women's groups, blacks and liberals. based on his St•natt-record and a con­
Would-be 
\\"ASHIN<:ToN <APl -Two 
nwn wen• indil'tPd Monday on 
ft•dl'ral rhargt•s of plotting to 
<tssassinate l'rt•sident Ford in 
Satranwnto hy shooting him 
;nul bombing a sewt•r line. 
Tlw dt-fl'IHiants are Gary Ste­
n·n l>I'Sure. :12. whose last 
known addrt•ss was Warm 
Springs. Mont.. and Preston Mi­
rhael 1\lavo. 24, of Warren 
<'ountv. V;i. Both were listed as 
um•m illoyt•d. 
ThPy wt•rt• arraigned last 
111onth by a ll S Magistrate in 
Santa Biu·bara. Calif., and are 
being ht-ld tlwre on $100,000 bail 
l'ach 
TIH• indil'tnll'nl charged the 
two t·onspin•d to plant a bomb 
in a stn•et st•wer near the Cali­
lornia statt• Capitol during a 
pn•sidt•ntial \"isit there. DeSure 
"would detonate the explosives 
;llld stand as a lookout" and 
1\lavo "would fire a shot at the 
l'n:sidt-nt." the indictment 
~aid 
Ili'Sun· and Mayo got to in 
Cincinnati Aug. 17 and two 
davs later ;nTived at a motel in 
llixon. Tt'lln., where they 
"wrot<• dPtails pt•rtaining to the 
cquipnwnt and plans necessary 
lo art·omplish lht• assassination 
allt•mpt ... tlw indil'lnwnt said. 
On Aug. 20, they arrived at a 
IIIOtl'l ill 1\lidWl'St ('ity, Okla., 
a11d tlw nt•xt Clay arrived at a 
111otl'l in Amarillo. Tt•x.. the in­
dirtllll'nt said. 
On Aug. 2:1. thl' indictment 
rontinut-<1. l>l'Sure and Mayo 
rl'adwd lht• Hollywood Burbank 
Airport in California where 
tlwv abandmwd the 1974 Datsun 
tlw)· had bet•n driving. 
1\layo then rented a car from 
a F~ll"d dealer in Woodland 
llills. Calif., and they traveled 
from lht•re to a motel in Van lt•ntion that he is both liberal and electable. 
Bayh was headed for a 1972 presidential bid but dropped out when his wife, Marvella, had to undergo breast cancer surgery. 
She has since recovered. Even before Tuesday's an­nouncement, which will take 
place  in  the  Indiana  State  
House  in  Indianapolis  where  
Bayh  became  speaker  at  31,  

he has begun to demonstrate or­ganizational strength. 
In New Hampshire, scene of the Feb. 24 kickoff primary, Bayh 's eampaign manager is l•:ileen Gonthier, a top Demo­crat in the state. State Chair­man Laurence Radway says 
•
assassJns 

Tlw dt-fendants arrived at the l'epper Tree Motel in Santa Barbara on Aug. 24, the in­dil'lnwnt related. 
They were arrested and jailt>d · I wo days later on the thl'l't charges. 
On Aug. 27, according to the indictnll'nt. Pach defendant "'did willfully and knowingly makt• threats to take the life of and to inflict bodily harm upon lht• l'n•sidt•nt of the United Stall'S." 
l•:ach man was charged with Bayh has considerable strength among party leaders. 

In the March 2 Massachusetts primary, Bayh's campaign will be run by John McKean, who ran George McGovern's suc­eessful 1972 primary. 
In New York, Bayh has en­listed Bronx Borough President Hobert Abrams, also a 1972 McGovern chairman. 
However, his initial appear­ances at gatherings of party liberals, in Minneapolis, and in Springfield, Mass., have failed to stir support. In straw polls, IH' ran behind Rep. Morris K. lldall of Arizona. 
Bayh 's chief Senate achieve­nlt'nls have been floor-manag­
indicted 
thn•atl'ning the life of the Pres­ident as well as with the more serious eharge of conspiring to assassinate the President. 
TIH' conspiracy eharge car­riPs a maximum penalty of life in prison. The charge of threat­l'ning the President carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $1,000 fine. 
No details were immediately available about the defendants' possible motives for allegedly plot I ing the assassination. 
ing constitutional amendments, including the presidential suc­cession amendment that put Ford and Nelson Rockefeller into the natibn's lop two offices and the still-pending equal rights amendment for women. 
More recently, Bayh has pushed for strict handgun lim­its and, after extensive subcom­mittee hearings blocked propos­als to limit the Supreme Court 
ruling permitting abortions. 
An  Indiana  native,  Bayh  ma­ 
jored  in  agriculture  at  Purdue  
University  where  he  was  elect­ 

t•d senior class president. 
Elected to the state House at 26, he became minority leader after two years and then speak­t•r. In 1962, he unseated veteran Hepublican Sen. Homer Cape­hart. then won re-election in 1968 and 1974. 
RIVER BEND PUB 
441 E. LA SALLE AT NILES AVE. 

LIVE ENTERTAINMENT MONDAY THRU SATURDAY 
(ND STUDENTS PERFORMING.) 
FEATURING 24 OZ. DRAFT 
$.60 

-WATCH FOR OUR HALLOWEEN SPECIAL COMING SOON-

PRESENTS:
WSND 
THE GREAT FLICK-OFF! 
CELEBRATING BEACH BOYS 
WEEK '75 
* WSND T-SHIRTS 
* BEACH BOY ALBUMS *AND MORE! Details given twice every hour, so tune us in and check us out 640 on your dial WSND A.M. 
Notre Dame's best rock. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Help! Need 2 or 3 GA tix to Desperately need two So. Cal. LOST AND FOUND 
NOTICES GPorgia Tech or Navy. Call Jim tickets. Call Bob 3665. 
1188. Lost: Silver I D bracelet, name FOR SALE 
2·bedroom home; fireplace, five minutes from campus, $120 per 

Needed: One good ticket for Patricia. Call 6788. Jpflerson Slarship Bus Trip, Oct. month plus utilities. Call 232-7372. Beach Boys concert. Cali Maggie,
Need 3 U.S.C. tix. Cali Dan 1219. 271h, $10.50. Student Unuon Ticket 
277-0794. Lost: A silver necklace with 3 red Office stones on it. If found please return
For Sale: 2 snow tires 13" lor Sll. 

Will trade 1student USC ticket and 
Must be in Connecticut or vicinity it. II was a special gilt. Cali 2184232·4569. $$for 2 G.A. Navy tix. Chuck 1380. 
by Friday, Nov. 7. Please call Susan.
Notice: To lhe Etymology studPnt 
Ellen at 277·0794, if you canwho got a Ilea from my basset Quality Stereo components at 20-40 Crying for 2 Navy tickets . 6896.hound Mufly on Tuesday outside of pprcent savings. RMS Audio; 321 
provide a ride that weekend. Lost: 1 pair, gold, wire.rimmed Galvin, please call Terri at 287-S. Main; 288·1681; 12-7 P.M. 
glasses at St. Mary's between

NPed 2 USC tickets for our sisters.
6638. I still need 1·4 GA fix any home Lemans and the dining hall. Call
(Student or GA). Cali Coops or Pat 
game . 1327. 234·6352.
4 Navy tix for sale. I need 5 Tech 1654. Flanner Records has the new: tix. Trade, sell, buy. Bill 1486. 
Paul Simon, Dave Mason, Pink Need 6 USC GA tickets · 233·5373. Lost: Pair of glaSSPS, black case,
I'm looking for four good seats to 
Iight tan tramp by Brownson. TomFloyd, Bruce Springsteen, Herbie For Sale: 1 G.A. USC ticket. Best thP BPach Boy concert. Call Mike Wanted: GANavy, Georgia Tech, 1224.

Hancock and Linda Rondstadt. offer. 6986. aftPr 6 p.m. 288-0088. 
Pitt. Call 1652.
Also, any other album not in stock can be ordered. Call 1488 or come 
FOR RENT HELP! I NEED 8 USC FOOT­Need ride to Pittsburgh soon alter 
to 807. Found: One SMC class ring. Call
BALL TICKETS, GENERAL USC game. Call 272-3294. 
Putzie 287·3528.

For RPnt: 3 room suite in home of ADMISSION OR STUDENT. Typing $.35 per page. Call Dan 272-young couple for single student. WILL PAY$$$. CALL NOW! 289­Needed: only one USC ticket. Call Lost: Gold charm braj;elet with5549. Private bath, kitchen privileges. 9174. 7471. 
one gold "Happy Birthday"

Call 289·9500 alter 5 p.m.Farley Motel is filled for So. Cal. 
.charm. Call 7628.

NPed 3 USC tickets. Call Mike NPed 2 GA tickets for Navy. Callweekend. Low RPnt: no restrictions, single after 6 p.m. 288-0088. Bob at 288·3472. students only, ample parking, male or female, call alter 6 p.m. Wanted: GA. So. Cal. tickets. Any Need 2 tix tor Beach Boys. Call PERSONALS 
LParn sport parachuting the safe only. 289·5237. number of them. Gary, 3075. Jim 3338. 
way at uxoow Air Sports Center. 2­
W('ek special S35 jump course pius WANTED Need 3 GA Navy tickets. Call Jen.
N('ed four GA tix for Georgia Tech
SIS for first lump. Contact Dale at 7248.
gamP. Call 4-5740 Dear Bro: This little notels in lieu683 8980 or John at 1·782·3500. Needed: 1 GA or Student tix for 
of a card. Have a really super 21st. NPPded: Two G.A. Southern Cal. Be sure to get In touch with Mrs.
Navy game. Cali Maureen 6834 or Needed: 1 USC ticket. Cali Jean 4. 
lix. Please call John at 3467. Hallock. You're going to need the
Pick up or purchase Bio Club T. 1715. No Scalpers need call. 5486 or Mary Ann 4-4165. 
shirts Mon. Oct. 20 and Tues. Oct. 
money for Navy weekend. See you21; Galvin Stockroom. 2·4:30. Need only 1 USC ticket for Alum. DESPERATELY NEED 2 G.A.

Need 4 or 5 USC tix. Cali 4·5483. then. Love. Sis
sister. Call camille -4773. USC TIX. ANY PRICE. CALL HUSTLE UP FOR 15 GREAT Desperately need 1 USC and Navy 1942. 
HUSTLE STEPS TAUGHT IN Need 2 GA tix for Navy or Grorgla ticket. Cali Pam 4-4161. 
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM TPCh. Call Tom D, 287-0544. All I need is I GA USC ticket. 7937 To the Beautiful BG girls·. from 
EACH & EVERY TUES. & WED.· ---------------------Wanted: 4 G.A. tickets to Navy please. the mouth of the unreliable one:
Wanted: 2 GA Tix for U.S.C.. ask

3·5. ALSO TUES. EVE. 7:30·9:30. and USC Call Marty or Joe at 287· "Oh, Wow! I" Great time. Thanx,
for Ron, 9·5 only. Call collect 312·

WALK INTO ANY OF THESE 5113. Wanted: Need 2 USC tix. Will pay The Corby Gang minus one.
482 8820.

CLASSES ALONE . GROUP · OR $$. Call Pete 234-6352. 
COUPLE. FACULTY STAFF NPed only 1 Southern Cal ticket Happy Birthday Dillon Lance STUDENTS ALWAYS and or 2 Georgia Tech fix. Call Needed: GA Southern Cal tix. Call Romance, the Romano is finallyWanted: Will pay $15 apiece for 2 
student USC tix. Call Rick. 287·

WELCOME S2 EA. CLASS. Jack 1131. 6896. 19. The Tribe.
2219. 
' .. 
'I I' .. 4 

..·.·.' "' ., .......... .' , . '.
' ' 

" ~ • r • • • • r .-I' r • , r • ., • " • ~ • , ., • 
ill • -'I •• .l o' •. • 

,. "' .. • .... ,.... ) " ., • ' ' 411 ..... ' .....
1 1-I I 
8 

the observer Tuesday, october 21, 1975 
Keenan still undefeated as 1-H football continues 
by Mike Keogh and Tony Pace 

lnterhall football completed its fourth week last sunday, focusing on the big play to open up the games. Defense remained the strategy. with turnovers as their objective. The offenses continued to improve, especially off-campus and Dillon. The rainy day caused many turnovers and ended with some surprising results. 
llillon 6 Sorin 3 

Both defenses looked impressive throughout the game as Sorin shut out Dillon in the first half. Dillon held Sorin to a 30 yard field goal after a turnover inside the 30. In a second half rally Dillon showed they haven't given up hope in retaining last year's title. Bill Griffin connected three times to Tim Holroyd. the final pass for a TD. in a 40 yard drive midway into the third period for the winning points. 
Off-Campus 20 
Howard <St. Ed's) o 
Off-campus finally got their offense on track Sunday as they scored three TD's against a fairly tough Howard defense. Robert Zierk scored two touchdowns on sweeps of 8 and 12 yards, both coming from Howard turnovers. The final score was a 23 yard run by Craig Tigh on a lateral from Zierk as he was being tackled. 
Fisher 6 Morrissey 0 
Fisher's Gerald Miles scored the big play on a 50 yard off-tackle touchdown run midway in the second period. Fisher then went for two but the attempt failed. Morrissey tried to get on the board before halftime but time ran out. Roth teams showed tremendous defenses against fine offenses. 
Pangbom 0 Alumni 0 
Pangborn and Alumni played to a 0-0 tie Sunday as both teams were 



Keenan remained the only unbeaten interhall team by downing 
Cavanaugh 20-0 Sunday(photo by Mark Muenchs 
Bill Brinkt==:=:::=:=:::=:=:::=:======~===~:::==~===:=============================================~=======~=~===~===-==================== 
The Irish Eye 
::=========~=========================================:=========================================================·Falcon facts 
One can hardly blame the Cadets that packed Falcon Stadium Saturday for singing "Na-Na-Na-Na, Hey Hey, Goodbye" at the beginning of the fourth quarter Saturday, but future Irish opponents will know better. The Falcon supporters also came up with another first, chanting "here comes nepalm .here comes nepalm," but in the end it was the Falcons who got burnt. 
.... 
********** 
Air Force placekicker Dave Lawson, who broke the collegiate carreer field goal record Saturday by hitting his 43rd three-pointer (he added number 44 and 45later in the game), was understandably not-so-thrilled. "What matters is the team," said the senior from Shawnee Mission, Kansas, ''and that never should have happened today. We gave it away." 
**********
Falcon coach Ben Martin used anguished generalizations in his com­ments after the game, but did manage to pinpoint what he thought hurt t­he Cadets the most. "We fell victim to Montana's passing," he lamented. ''He was really humming the ball in there, more so than Slager. We were near the recievers, but he threw strikes." 
The Air Force coach concluded his comments by turning to the crowd of reporters that surrounded him, lifting his hands and asking "weren't any of you guys praying out there? We needed legions of crescendos rising from the Stadium ...". He just turned away after that, but turned back to say "Thank vou" 
**********' 
Saturday's loss extended the Falcon's winless streak to 11 games and made them 0-6 against the Irish. Their 30 points however is the most they've scored against ND, and their high for the season. 
********** 
In the Notre Dame locker room after the game someone suggested a solution for the Irish's nerve-shattering fourth quarter finishes. Why not send them out to a movie for three quarters? It sounds ridiculous, but it might work. It you took the offense to a movie and let the defense stand alone for three quarters, you might be 10, 15, maybe 20 points behind going into the final period, nothing new to the '75 Irish. Then just bring the offense back and tell them they have to score three touchdowns in the final quarter to win <they're used to it). Send in Joe "Miracle" Mon­tana and tell him to lead a dazzling comeback for a last-minute victory. 
Seriously, the Irish call ill-afford to wait threee quarters to get going t­his weekend against USC, and they know it. They must extend the drives that they generate into the end zone, for too often they move down the field yet fail to light the scoreboard. 
"We move the ball up and down the field," said guard AI Wujciak, "but we just can't get it in the end zone." 
Also, the Irish have been aided by the big play at just the right time. Against North Carolina they had Burgmeier's 80-yard touchdown on a simple sideline pattern, and against Air Force they came up with two fumble recoveries, a 66 yard pass and AI Hunter's crucial 43 yard run-­all in the fourth quarter. 
"When you get a big play," says sophomore quartrback Montana, "it psyches the guys up. It helps your mental attitude." 
Every team relies on the big play, but ND has had their share late in the game. Of the 120 points they've totaled this season, 90 have come in the second half, 73 of those in the fourth quarter L The Trojans figure to be le-;s beneficial towards the end of the game. 
hampered with penalties and turnovers. It was obviously a defensive game. The biggest threat came with four minutes left in the game. Pangborn on fourth down faked the punt which failed leaving Alumni in good field position inside the 30. Unable to generate an offense Alumni went for the field goal which was just inches wide. 
Sunday night's Interhall Foot­ball games were all defensive battles with Keenan, Flanner and ~loly Cross halls all winning by shutouts. All of these games were played at Cartier under the lights. 
Kt>enan 20 Cavanaugh 0 

Keenan's domination of this contest began early in the first quarter with a time consuming 60 vard drive. The culmination of this drive was a 26 yard pass from quarterback John Feeney to halfback Pinky Faherty. The extra point attempt failed and the score was ti-0. 
Midway through the second period Keenan's swarming defense blocked a Cavanaugh punt and recovered at midfield. Feeney passed :l7 yards to Greg Wilkes. On the next play Faherty ran 13 yards for his second touchdown. The two­point conversion was good and the score was 14-0. Keenan scored again before the half ended, but it mts called back because of a holding penalty. 
The second half of this game lwlonged entirely to the Keenan defense. especially their front line. Tom Welch. Bob Lindsey, Don Bishop. Bill Jacobitz, and captain AI Sondej sacked the Cavanaugh quarterback six times. Late in the fourth quarter they forced a fumble at the Cavanaugh 2 yard line. Fullback Joe Kearn blasted the final2 vards for the touchdown. The extra· point was missed, but Keenan had a 19-0 romp. 
Flantwr ti Zahm 0 

This game was scoreless until late in the fourth quarter when, after just stopping a Flanner drive, Zahm fumbled deen in their own 
Lyons, Lewis win W"omen I s interhall football contests 
h~· Eilt>Pil O'GradJ 

With an extended schedule, the Women's Interhall Football ateams resumed play last week. Lyons beat Walsh 32-0, and Lewis defeated Farley 19-7. 
·I a very physical game on Thursday, Lyons swept past Walsh :12-0. On the first play, Lyons' halfbach Terry Welsh scored a 50 vard touchdown on a hand-off from quarterback Patty Kulick. Halfback Susie Augustus made the one point conversion on a sweep run. 
Lyons scored their second touch­down on a driv.e set up after an interception by Augustus. Tight end Jill DeLucia caught a pass fromKulick and gained 40 yards. On the next play DeLucia ran 10 vards for the touchdown. Walsh was able to prevent the conversion. 
On another hand-of play, Welsh ran tiO vards for her second touch­down of the day. Again, Lyons was unable to concert for the extra point. 
In the second half, after a long drive, Kulick scored the fourth touchdown on a 2 yard run right down the middle. Cleste Volz made the conversion. 
After Lyons kicked off to Walsh, DeLucia made an interception for Lyons setting up their final touch­down. There was no conversion. 
Aso on Tuesday afternoon, Lewis beat Farley 19-7. In a primarily running game, Lewis gained over 200 yards total rushing. 
Lewis' Captain Anne Berges set up the first Lewis touchdown with an interception early in the first half. Halfback Sue Behnke ran 65 yards on the next play bringing the ball down to the 4 yard line. Quarterback Kitty Ryan again \l·ent with Behnke who ran it in for screen pass to Meg Hackett who the touchdown. On a quick slant ran 50 yards for the touchdown. pass to Berges, Lyons converted Farley converted for the extra for the extra point. point on a pitch out to Chris Dat­
Alson in the first half, halfback zman. Eunie Sullivan initiated the second Lewis conpleted the scoring with touchdown drive with a 55 yard a 20 yard touchdown by Margaret run. Three plays later she rn 6 Burke. They were unable to gain t­yards for the touchdown. Farley hP conversion. prevented the conversion. The present standings of 
Farley ascored their only touch­Women's lnterhall Football are: down early in the second half. Lyons 4-1. Lewis 4-1, Walsh 3-2, <~uarterback Maria Choca threw a 'Farlev 1-4. 


tenitory. Two plays later Flanner a :10 yard scramble by quarterback
quarterback Mark Coon flipped a 1\likey Landi. The extra point was short pass to split end Mike Shutt 110 good and the score was 6-0. f01 the game's only score. The final score stood at 6-0, Flanner. Both In the third period. after a 40 teams wPre handicapped by the ~ ard sustained halfback Lary rain. 1\krief swept around the left end 
lor se\'Pn yards and the score. The
llnly ('ross 1:1 Gra('t' 0 
Pxtra point was good and the final score was 13-0.
:\ftpr a scoreless first quarter 
"(;eorge" (;alae. Matt Hat­

Holy Cross marched 50 yards in 6 lesnJan and l'ete McCarthy played plays. The biggest play on the \l'l'll for (;race.
drive was also the touchdown plav. 
*Observer 
Sports 






