

President Gerald R. Ford will meet with several Midwest governors and about 45 collegiate officials in his visit here to Notre Dame Monday 
un1versity of notre dome st mary's college 
Vol. IX, No. 100 
Ford to meet governors, college officials Monday 
by Jim Eder Contributing Editor 

Indiana Governor Otis Bowen will join governors from four other Midwest and Middle Atlantic 
states in attending a working dinner with President Ford on the Notre Dame campus Monday 
·evening. Governors William G. Milliken <R-Mich.), Julian Carroll <D-Ky.), Mills E. Godwin, Jr. (R­
Va.) and Arch A. Moore, Jr. <R-W.Va.) will also meet with Ford. Governors Marvin Mandel (D-Md.) 
and James Rhodes<R-Ohiol were also invited by the White House but have not confirmed their at­
tendance. 

The University has invited about 45 university and college presidents from the Midwest to meet 
with Ford .. Invi~ations w_ere extended by telephone to all the Indiana colleges, the Big 'Ten schools 
and the Umvers1ty of Chicago, A complete list of confirmations will not be available until 
noon today, according to Assistant Provost William Burke. 
Academic convocation 

Th~ Presi~ent will address an open Academic Convocation scheduled for 11 a.m. in the ACC. There 
he w1ll rec~1ve an ho~orar_y doctor of laws degree from the University. St. Mary's faculty will march 
m academic procession w1th the Notre Dame faculty at the ceremonies. 
Students from both schools will be given preferential seating for the Academic Convocation. They 
may enter the AC Cnain arean through Gate 11 beginning at 9:30a.m. Students must present their ID 
cards to enter at that time. 
Media executives 

Afterwards Ford is hosting a luncheof\ for approximately 65 publishers, editors and broadcast executives from Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, Kentucky, Ohio and Michigan. Tfu~··luncheon will be followed by a 2p.m. briefing by key Administration spokesmen on economic and energy issues. 
This will be the President's fourth such meeting with regional media executives outside of Washington. "The purpose of this working session like other such meetings he has held with a wide ran~e of !ndividuals and organizations, is to.encourage two-way communication between his ad~ mm1strabon and the private sector," according to a release by Presidential Press Secretary Ron Nessen. 
Administration officials attending the luncheon will include Nessen· Robert Hartmann counsellor to the President; Richard Cl!eney, deplllyassistant to the President; 'Alan 1Greenspan,~hairmanof 

Federal Energy Administration; James M. Cannon, executive
director and assistant to the President for domestic affairs; Max L. Friedersdorf, assistant to the President for legislative affairs· Jack Hushen and Gerald Warren, deputy press secretaries 'to the President; and Robert Mead, tdevision advisor tothe President. 
At 6 p.m. the President will hold a press conference in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. 
Television coverage 
Ford's visit to the campus on St. Patrick's Day will be covered bv at least two of the national television networks. ABC and CBS confirmed plans to release film footage of the visit for nation wide news broad­casts. 
The ABC network will cover all events on the President's schedule including the address in the ACC and his meeting with governors.' 
Although none of the events will be broadcast live the film will be

Friday, March 14, 1975 
distributed for national news telecasts Monday night. 
CBS has not yet decided whether or not any portion of Ford's visit to the Notre Dame_ community will be· carried live. Film footage will, however, be avatlable for broadcast by CBS affiliates on the night time news reports.


Campus groups considering 
NBC in New York has not yet confirmed plans to cover the 
• • I 
e • President'_s appearance at Notre Dame, butwillreportedly will be 1 5 p ay0 p p 0 5 I t I O n~e~~ t~f~W~~e~~ for broadcast there and possible distribution to other
act1on to d 
B.v Pat llanifan 

Two campus groups are considering the possibility of taking some kind of action to make President Ford aware of their opposition to domestic and foreign policies while Ford is on campus Monday. Hules for any possible demnstrations outside theACC will be established today according to Secret Service source. 
Prof. Joseph Duffy of the English Department said he and a group of about five other people are discussing the possibility of a protest such as"perhaps handing out leaflets or suggesting that students and faculty not attend." He stressed that nothing would be decided until the weekend. 
Fr. Thomas Stella, director of volunteer services, said that if any action is taken it would "not be disruptive and would respect the rule about no demonstrations inside the Academic Con­vocationc."He explained that he had mentioned the possibility of action unofficially to some ad­ministrators but said nothing no member of the group has written to Fr. Hesburgh objecting to the in­vitation. 
"Fr. Hesburgh is handling the situation in the way he thinks uest, in order to perhaps effect a change in f'ord's lnlicies," Stella said, ''and we do not want to disrupt llesburgh's line of communication with the administration but we do at least want to state our positi011 on Ford's policies on matters like the war in 
South Vietnam and the treatment of the poor in 
America.'' 
Another group, organized by senior Timothy 
O'Brian and mcJUding leaders of the "Chicano 
Students Coalition." the "Black StudentsCoalition," 
and members of Cila and the International Students 
Association expressed their view at length on today's 
Observer editorial page. 
O'Brian said that he felt the purpose of the group 
should be "to send .Ford back to Washington with an 
awareness that students here and across l'1e country 
are concerned and aware about the dir~ction the 
country takes." 
Deeming"personnally unacceptable" any protest 
whit:h is "violent or irrational,"O'Brian saw his role 
as "performing a service by giving students a 
channel to express their views to Ford." Unlike 
Duffy and his associates who oppose Ford's visit 
O'Brian is "delighted he is coming so we can give him 
a message." 
O'Brian solicited suPPOrt for "giving Ford the message" from Student Body President Pat McLaughlin. Ed Byrne, president-elect and St. Mary's st~dent government leaders. All tleclined to endorse h1s position but O'Brian felt their support 
was "not really needed." 
Sr. Madonna Kolbenschlag, asistant professor of American Studies, who is not currently linked with either group, objected to the visit on the grounds that "this visit looks like it may turn out to be an ex­ploitation of the University by Ford for political purposes." 
She pointed especially to the limit on demon­strations but refused to comment on Hesbrugh's invitation since she 'does not know the background." 
A Secret Service source with the presidential ad­vance party said that a decision on procedures for possible demonstrations outside the arena would be decided today. At some other presidential ap­pearances the Secret Service has orovided a special 
(continued on page 3) 
hi. B
McLaug In, yrnedecltne tnvttattons 
by Ken Girouard News Editor Pat McLaughlin, student body president, and Ed Byrne, student body president-elect, declined invitations yesterday to meet informally with President Gerald Ford during his campus visit on Monday. In a letter to Fr. James 
Burtchaell, university provost, McLaughlin expressed personal dissatisfaction with the methods used to determine who would meet with the President. According to Richard Conklin, director of In-

Whil~ several ~roups ar~ pla~~ing protest, othe~ preparations are being made for 
1

Pres!dent Fords upcommg VISit to NO. These s1gns will be used in setting up the President's route 
formation Services, invitations to the meetmg were extended to a group of faculty and students which represent the academic aspect of Notre Dame. This group consists of the seven students and 32 elected faculty 1 members of the Academic Council, the twelve student members of the College Councils, McLaughlin and Byrne, and Joanne Garrett, legislative Commissioner at St. Mary's. 
Explaining his refusal to attend the meeting, McLaughlin stated that it was "a simple, personal refusal, not a political one." 
"I turned down the Invitation because of the make-up of the list of invitations. I was upset because of who wasn't invited," McLaughlin said . " I think they've separated academics from the rest of Notre Dame , and an awful lot of people were left out." 
Net>d wider representation 

McLaughlin expressed con­fusion over the criteria for selection of the invitation list, "I don't understand their priorities," he said. They said that the visit was an academic affair and so they invited academic people. I'm not slamming those who were in­vited , but I don't agree with the scope of their definition of •academic'." 
He indicated that no one should 

be cut out of the guest list, but that 
it should have been expanded to 
include a wider representation of 
Notre Dame. 
Student Body President-elect Ed 

Byrne stated that he also was 
(continued on page 3) 

Friday, March 14, 1975
the observer 
warld briefs 
HARRISBURG, Pa. (UPI) The bizarre Patricia Hearst case took a new turn Thursday when her fingerprints were reported to have been found In a northeastern Pennsylvania farmhouse. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Senate Finance Committee voted tentatively Thursday to forgive up to $2,000 in income taxes for those who buy homes and to weigh tax cuts more heavily in favor of families with children. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The 
U.S. Court of Appeals here ruled Thursday the Federal Power Commission Illegally exceeded its authority in exempting sales of natural gas from normal federal regulation for six months during the 1973­1974 winter energy crisis. 
WASHINGTON !UPI) -The Senate voted Thursday to set aside major energy legislation so that it can speed approval of a tax cut package. 
an campus taday 
Friday, March 14 
12 am--seminar, "germfree isolator technique In orthopedic surgery" by dr. m. pitcher, 102 galvin. 
12:15 pm--lecture,"ldeology of social action: old and new" by msgr. j. egan, lib. faculty lounge. 
3:25 pm--seminar, "effect of Ionizing radiation upon the catalytic properties of a silver supported catalysis during catalytic oxidation of ethylene" by r. vallejo, 269 chem. eng. bldg. 
3:30 
pm--discussion, rosemary haughton with john dunne, "the role of imagination in theology", lib. aud. 

3:30 
pm--colloquium, "characteristic activity & the good of living thing" by w. frerking & r. mclnery, faculty lounge. 


4:30 
pm--lecture, "molecular radiationless transitions" by j. jortner, 123 niewland. 

4:30 
pm-­colloquium,''endomorphlsm rings of infinetely gerenated projective modules" by b. mcdonald, 226 computer center. 5 pm--mass dinner, bulla shed. 5 pm--vespers, log chapel. 8 pm--lecture, "the recon­struction of american politics" by hunter thompson, wash hall. 8 pm--performing arts, "americana" by catherine dunham, o'laughlin aud. 8,10 pm--film, "the panic In needle park", Sl. eng. aud. 


8:15 pm--concert, clarinet & piano, roger brown, lib. aud. 

9 pm-1 a m--smc coffeehouse, b. hillstrom, j. dadmund, & c. cazzozza, 10-m.e. murray & j. ripley, 11-lone star, 12-j. hoyer & g. adello. 
Saturday, March 15 
9 am-5 pm--mexican american 
lecture series, lib. aud. 
5 pm--evensong vespers, log 
chapel. 
6:30, 9, 11 pm--film, "clockwork 
orange", Sl. eng. aud. 
Sunday, March 16 

4:30 pm--evensong vespers, iady chapel. 7,9,11 pm--film, "the music lovers", eng. aud. 8 pm--anthropology major's meeting, lib. aud. 
Hersh talks about CIA 
by Gregg Bangs Staff Reporter 
Speaking on issues ranging from 
the CIA to the Pentagon, New York 
Times Investigative Reporter 
Seymour Hersh presented his 
viewpoints on several domestic 
topics in a lecture and question and 
answer period last night at 
Washington Hall. 
Before an audience of ap­
proximately seventy-five people, 
Hersh gave a short non-structured 
talk on his latest assignment the 
Central Intelligence Agency, as 
well as Watergate. the Pentagon 
and reporting in general. 
Following this, he entertained 
questions on these topics for an 
hour and a half. 
Hersh began his talk by giving a 
brief background sketch. After 
a!tending the University of 
Chicago in the late 1950's, he 
worked for the Associated Press' 
Chicago city news bureau. He then 
was assigned to by A.P. to cover 
the Pentagon, where he started "to 
get disillusioned by Vietnam." 
After this he worked as Sen. 
Eugene McCarthy's press 
secretary during McCarthy's 
unsuccessful 1968 bid for the 
Presidency. In 1972, he was hired 
by the New York Times as an in­
vestigative reporter, an area he 
claims "they were weak in at the 
time." 
For the Times, Hersh has 
covered a number of stories, in­
cluding his Pulitzer Prize winning 
articles on the My Lai massacres. 
Since then he has done in­
vestigative articles on Watergate, 
unauthorized bombings of North 
Vietnam and CIA activities. 
The topic predominating both 
the lecture and ensuing question 
and answer period was the CIA. 
"Ever since the domestic spying 
story broke last December 22, I've 
come to the conclusion that the 
moral arrogance of the CIA is very 
frightening,' 'he said. 
"I feel sorry for any historian trying to write a history of western Europe without taking into account the ;actions of the CIA. It's im­possible, for the role the CIA has played in Europe since World War II is incredibly large And since no one from the CIA is goingto letout the whole truth, nobody will know the full extent of their activities for 
quite some time,"he explained. 
Hersh characterized most CIA 
men as "Constitutionalists." 
"Most CIA guys are awfully loyal 
and would not believe in violating 
the law of their own land," he 
stated. When questioned 'why CIA 
.nen would then partake in 
domestic spying if they follow the 
federal laws. Hersh answered 
"CIA men are also very loyal to 
their organization. If they are told the domestic spying they're partaking in will help the nation, then it's alright." 
The domestic spying Hersh mentioned was taking place as early 1967 when the CIA started to keep files on anti-war demon· stration leaders. When asked if the opium fields of communist guerrillas but would pass over those of our allies "so we (U.S. interests l could buy it and sell it at home." 
On Vietnam, Hersh said "Anybody who had anything to do with Vietnam is always preoc-

anyboay at Notre Dame might be on file, Hersh replied "If anybody tied a large demonstration here in the late sixties, they're likely to be on file." 
Hersh explained that even though domestic spying has been getting more commonplace in recent years. more than seventy­fi_y_e percent of the CIA's budget still goes into external affairs. One of the countries the CIA has been linked to recently was Chile. "It's pretty much accepted that we had a lot to do with the political unrest leading up the eventual overthrow of the Marxian government of Salvador Ayende," Hersh stated. 
Hersh said that besides Chile, the CIA had disposed of, or tried to, leaders of Chile, South Vietnam, Cuba and several African coun­tries. "The CIA once hired two Mafioso gunmen to kill Castro when he first took over in Cuba when Castro started taking over Mafia run interests in that coun­try," Hersh continued. 
Hersh also thought that the CIA and the Mafia did work together. "The CIA, Mafia and drugs all fit in." he said. Hersh related that when he was covering the illegal Laotian bombings, he found out that the United States would bomb 
The Observer is published dally during the college semet~ter except vacations by the stuoents of the University of Notre Dame Uld St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box· Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
STUDENT UNION PRESENTS 



A CLOCKWORK ORANGE 
SAT. MARCH IS 
6:30, 9, II: 30 PM 
ENGINEERING AUD. 
---------------··· -·-7= -·---...1 



act1v1t1es 
cupied with it." He explained he became disillusioned with Vietnam following a press conference on an early battle in '65. "After Bob McNamara had just gotten done praising 'our boys' for the great battle they had just won, I was informed by somebody who was there that we had over six hundred casualties which would be spread over afew week's casualty reports to make us look good. After that, I got increasingly bitter over Vietnam policy," he stated. 
Hersh saw "no great lesson in Watergate." "All the people who followed Nixon were selfless people who did what the boss wanted," he stated. 
He characterized Watergate "plumber'' G. Gordon Liddy as a man who "thinks its 1944 and he's 
in  the  O.S.S.  shot  down  behind  
enemy  lines."  
John  Dean  was  an  "absolute  

cold-blooded rat who manipulated the press all last April and May to get himself out of trouble--the only trouble was he didn't start early enough." 
HUNTER THOMPSON 
speaking on 
'ihe Reconstruction of American Politics" Tonight WASHINGTON HALL PUBLIC INVITED FREE 
1974-1975 

FOOTBALL 
& 

BASKETBALL POSTERS 
for sale by THE OBSERVER 
See th'e display in the Huddle & the Observer office 


NICKlE'S 
PRESENTS 


ST. PATRICK'S 
DAY PARTY 
OPEN 7 A.M. KEGS OF GREEN REFRESHMENTS 
AT A VERY LOW PRICE 
Friclay, ¥arch 14, 1~?5 


Doughnuts put hole •

1n Student Gov't 
by Don Reimer Staff Reporter 
Student Government has for­mally requested that the Office of Student Affairs send a directive to certain halls on the north quad informing them that the purchase of doughnuts from a source other than Student Union is in violation of University regulations. 
Brian McGinty, Student Government Judicial Com­missioner, said yesterday that he had been asked by the Services Commissioner to request this restriction. 
"Legally, the concession has been purchased by us <Student Government> and it shouldn't be taken away without our approval," McGinty stated. 
He cited the University regulation concernmg mer­chandising which requires per­mission of the Student Union Services Commission in opening a new concession. This passage reads: "Approval of the Student Union Services Commission and the Director of Student Activities is required for the sale of any itemon cam pus, including ...special concessions granted by the Student Union Services Commission, such as birthday cakes, doughnuts and corsages." 
McGinty explained that the Student Union Services Commission operates on a very low budget, making only ap­proximately $50 per year, in order to bring this service to the students as cheaply as possible. This new concession has apparently taken 

Invitations declined 

(continued from page 1) 
turning the invitation."! don't feel that the students selected are truly representative of the University, 
and that there was too narrow a criterion for their selection," Byrne stated."I'm joining Pat
Iin turning down the invitation in fairness to the people I'veIworked with over the years. I don't 1 want to be the only representative 
from student leadership." 
Byrne noted that he, too would have liked the list to be expanded, and felt that it ignored a large portion of the university. "If President Ford wanted to meet the student leaders, then they should have picked a cross-section of people to meet with him," he said. Byrne suggested that the number of students from the College Councils could have been cut to one or two from each college, thus allowing someone from the HPC, SLC or even 'from the athletic teams to attend 
the meeting. 
He added that he did not intend 
to disrupt the activities, saying,"I 
don't want to disturb Ford's visit, 
because that's the important thing. 
Its an internal affair and we'll 
settle it ourselves." 
.Joanne Garret, Legislative 
Commissioner at St. Mary's was 
the ottl1:1y representative from that 
school invited to the meeting. She 
said that she had not received her 
Mclaughlin 
invitation yet and did not wish to comment upon the selections. 
Dr. William Burke, assistant provost, was in charge of for­warding the invitations. He defended the selection of guests by saying that it was the decision of the White House that limited the number of guests. 
"What Ford likes to do is talk informally to a group of about 50 people. He likes to talk with each individual on a personal level, and if there were any more than 50 people, it wouldn't be informal. but 
more like a lecture," Burke added. 
It wasn't Hesburgh or Burtchaell who decided to keep this thing manageable. 'alt's the way the President likes to do it," he added, 
Burke explained the selection of guests, saying that "since its an academic convocation, the sim­plest way of selecting students was by taking students and faculty on the highest academic organizations.It's only logical that the Academic Council and the College Council be represented." He added that, "Making a list is like making a calendar. You're not going to be able to please · everybody. There were many deserving people, but that's the way Ford wanted it," Burke said. 
In reference to McLaughlin's refusal to attend and the sub­sequent letter to Burtchaell, Burke .said, "What Pat wants to do with his life ishis business." He added that Burtchaell would probably meet with McLaughlin and Byrne upon his return Sunday from the meeting of the Executive Com­mittee of the Board of Trustees in Key Biscayne, Florida. 
Conklin defended the selection of guests for the meeting. "It's im­possible to make up a list that's 
not going to offend anybody. The representative should reflect the chief enterprise of the university, which is an academic one. Therefore, we chose the members of the academic organizations of the university." 


Groups considering action 
(continued from page 1) 
area for demonstrators. 
The advance party source said the use of such a protection of the President when he is inside a building. "None of our security personnel will be in the ACC during Ford's appearance at the Con­vocation," Pears said, " so the enforcement of the ban on demonstrations inside will be handled by the Secret Service as they see fit." . 
Richard Conklin,director of Information Services, explained the ban on inside demonstrations as "simply consistent with the past policy of the University on Academic Convocations." He argued that the President's visit "is not a political rally, it is an academic affair and we have never allowed demonstrations at such formal convocations.". technique depends on several factors "such as the jurisdiction in which the President appears, for in­stance if he is on private property." The source refused to elaborate on how security for the trip will be arranged. 
Arthur Pears, director of campus security ex­plained that the main security measures will be handled by the Secret Service. "Campus Security will be working on such matters as traffic control, parking and pedestrian control," Pears explained. 
He noted that the South Bend police and St. Joseph 
County police would  be  working  on  the  carcade  
through  South  Bend  and  on  airport  security  
respectively.  

Pears stated that the Secret Service deals with the 

FRI. & SAT.

Wednesday -Pitcher Nlte • $1.50 
ENTERTAINMENT 

Thursday -Pinball Nlte -prizes $10 • $5 NITE 
9:00 -2:00

RIVER BEND PLAZA 
109 Woodward Court Behind Wymans a Rasmu-M 
the Services Commission's two 
largest buyers, causing them to be 
unable to break even on their 
operation. 
"The baker can supply only a few halls, but this loss of revenues means that the Services Com­mission will lose money," he said. "We have no objection to one hall buying from this source, however, it can't be offered to other halls," McGinty continued. 
Fr. Thomas Tallarida, rector of Zahm hall, who initiated the purchases from the other bakery reacted to the Student Govern­ment's action by citing the free enterprise system. "The halls should have the right to buy from the person who gives them the best price," he said. 
He questioned the right of the Student Union to have a monopoly when they are not seeking the 
·lowest prices. "The price charged by the Student Union was too high and we couldn't afford to get the doughnuts. If they could sell them for the lower price, we would certainly buy from them," Tallarida said. 
Tallarida explained that he was selling to other halls so that there would be enough volume to make it worthwhile for the seller. He also felt that Student Union could find a better place to purchase their doughnuts. 
In reference to the the Mer­
chandising regulation, Director of 
Student Activities Fr. David 
Schlaver commented, "if we 
followed that rule in all 
Doing anything this weekend? 
How about a trip to beautiful 
Michigan, the land of almost sky 
blue waters'! 
The Ombudsman service is 
running the Quickie Shuttle which 
will service this far-off port on 
Saturday evening and on St. 
Patrick's Day, Monday. Riders 
are reminded that the Junior Class 
is sponsoring a happy hour at 
Kubiak's on Monday night from 8-2 
a.m. 
On Saturday night the Quickie 
will leave the circle at 8:30, 9:00, 
9::lo. 1o:oo, n:oo, 12:oo, 12:30, 1:00 
and 1:30 a.m. 
The Monday night Quickie 
departure schedule is as follows: 
7:30,8:00, 8:30, 9:30, 10:30, 11:30, 
12:30,1:00,1:30 a.m. The buses 
will leave from the Circle. 

cases,many things would be shut down immediately." · 
"We are concerned with 
protecting the students from 
people who sell door to door," 
Schlaver noted. "The Student 
Union asked me to regulate these 
sales, but I have no reason to as 
long as it is not injuring students," 
he said. 
"I don't approve much that is sold in the individual food sales," Schlaver said. "The food sales have been pretty much an in­dependent thing, in which we do not get involved because the halls can usually handle the situation," he remarked. 
Rich Golden, Student Union Services Commissioner, said that he did not know the reason that the halls had not come to and requested permission as the regulation requires. 
"I don't know why they didn't come to me," he said, "I suspect that they might not have been aware of the rule." 
Reacting to this charge, 
Tallarida noted again that he felt 
that the halls should be allowed to 
purchase their own sapplies. He 
pointed out that no one tries to 
restrict the halls from purchasing 
many other goods from any source 
they choose. 
Golden stated that the purpose of this rule to prevent anyone from exploiting the students. "People have to get our pennission because we don't want anyone exploiting the students. The authority ·bas been delegated to us by Father Schlaver. 
·eMERY AI.·R FREIGHT 
Makes goilng home easy Ill 
1. 
Pick up at your dorm 

2. 
Deliver at your home -anywhere in the free world 


for details call: 
233-3127 
PHILOSOPHY· 
MEET YOUR MAJOR 
SUN., MARCH 16 
630PM 
FACULTY LOUNGE MEMORIAL LIBRARY 
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED 
..--------------------------------------------------~~ 


"Eventually, we hope to expand our services to in· 
elude all the working poor, including those in the 
South Bend area." 
Friday, March 14, 1975
the observer
4 
Six main divisions 
Legal Aid services outlined 
neediest clients. minimum wage
Note: This article, the second 
work, and

describing the operations of the "The program ab~~r Notre Dame Legal Aid and in Cass County is _.... ver criminal cases 
sponsored by the involving
Defender Association, covoers the 
local bar migrants.
services the Association renders to 
association," Bowersock
the nearby community. 
by Tom Russo Staff Reporter 
Besides University Referrals, which provides legal advice to ~~otre Dame students, Legal Aid has six other divisions which serve the community at large. 
Cass County 
Approximately 25 Notre Dame law students work as volunteer aids to lawyers in Cassopolis, Michigan, 20 miles east of the state line. 
The program is designed to help those who are impoverished obtain legal counseling and services. Jack Garbo, director of the Cass County Division, explained who is eligible. "We can serve only 'in­digent' clients, he said, "under the rules of the local bar association." 
Garbo screens each client. If he decides that a person can afford a lawyer, he sends the client to a referral agency. If the applicant is ''indigent", Garbo hands the case to the program's assignment director, who in turn decides who will handle the client's case. 
Students do, in effect, what lawyers do. They interview clients, conduct investigations and preliminary examinations, and represent clients in court. All papers, however, must be signed by a supervising lawyer. Only if the case is criminal in nature must the supervising lawyer be present in the courtroom with the student. Most the law students practice in state circuit, district, and probate courts. They cannot represent a client in Federal court. 
"We handle a wide variety of cases," explained Mike Quinn, a member of the program. "People often get the mistaken impression that we only handle divorce cases. This is not so. We're involved with landlord-tenant relations, custody hearings, adoption proceedings, and even exposure cases." 
Between 160 to 200 cases are active each week. The law students, aside from gaining in­valuable practical experience, help lighten the workload of the 16 lawyers who work in Cass County by providing free services to the 
"A masterful accomplishment! One of the most affecting pictures in years." 
-Arthur Knight, Saturday Review 

Garbo com-insir:~ht hopes to get in­
mented, "and w e ' v e h a d tremendous support from the community." "It is by far the best program of its kind in Michigan, and certainly one of the best in the county . " 
Although the students are volunteers, they receive one credit for four hours work per week over the course of a year, and two credits for eight hours. "In reality," said Garbo, "the students put in from fifteen to twenty hours per week." 
These are the same conditions 
required of all the students who 
work in Legal Aid. In addition to 
their clinical work, they must 
attend at least five seminars 
sponsored by Legal Aid ir. order to 
receive the credits. 
Both Quinn and Garbo em­
phasized the value of the program 
aside from a purely charitable 
viewpoint. "The courtroom ex­perience is a very real situation," Qumn reflected. "It's practical rather than theoretical learning." 
Labor Division 
Directed by Terry Bowersock, four law students are active as aide~ to two full time attorneys in Bern.en Springs, Michigan, about 15 m1les northwest of Niles. 
"Right now most of our work deal with the numerous migrant workers in the area," explained Bowersock. "Eventually, however, we hope to expand our services to include all the working poor, including those in the South Bend area." 
The students help migrant workers when they run into problems with their employers. ''Many of these people are from the south west part of the country and come up here to pick grapes and the many vegetables raised in this area," Bowersock stated. "We do field work, informing the workers of their rights and helping them when they ~re at odds with the farmers." There are approximately 200 labor campus in the Berrien Springs area. 
The program also deals with farmers refusing to pay bonuses after hire, safety standards, 
volved with civil rights cases also. "I talked recently with Prof. Howard Flickstein, Director of the Center for Civil Rights," Bowersock stated, "and we hope to work in connection with the Center in the future." 
Post-Conviction Remedies 
This division was the original work around which the Legal Aid and Defender Association grew since its inception in the fall of 1965. Seven students provide legal research and advice for those who are beyond the trial stage or whose case calls for an appeal. 
"Our work is mainly with prisoners in the Indiana State Prison at Michigan City," stated Tom McGill, director of the di~ision. "In addition, we make tr1ps to Pendleton Reformatory (just north of Indianapolis) and help the inmates at the Federal Prison at Terre Haute." 
"We get mail requests from prisoners all over the country," McG11l added, "and act as an in­formation clearinghouse in many respects." 
The students' work can be divided into four sectors: 
11) Handling mail requests. The division receives from t.ve to ten letters per day requesting legal advice and information. 
2) Prison interviews. Within 30 (now 60) days after a trial the decision may be repealed. Staffers interview the prisoners upon request and review their cases. 
3) Legal Research Seminar. Established last year, the seminars conducted by the staffers show inmates the fundamental elements of legal research. The 8­week program, held only at the Michigan City Prison, informs the prisoners of their basic rights and thus cuts down on unfounded requests. 
4) Requests from the St. Joseph County Jail. Although not much attention is given to this area, the divison does honor pre-trial requests and researched matters such as extradition statutes for the prisoners. 
"There is no overlap between our work and that of St. Joseph County Legal Aid," McGill noted, "because they can only handle civil cases due to the legislative restrictions imposed upon the organization at its inception. 
Last year the division initiated a book drive which provided 1000 legal texts to the library of Michigan City Prison's Rit Room, a program whereby prisoners assist other prisoners in legal matters. The books were donated by at­

torneys and law students. 
Prosecutor's Division 
Several students work downtown in the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's office as interns. Others work for St. Joseph County Legal Aid Society. 
Students at the Prosecutor's Office interview people who come to the office for legal assistance because they have nowhere else to turn. Much like the Cass County program, this division's work involves providing legal advice and research to those who can't afford legal fees. 
"We are not magicians," mentioned one of the staffers, "but we do what we can." 
Don Morose, Director of the Prosecutor's Division, spends much time on cases involving Notre Dame students. 
Litigation 
The Litigation Division, set up by Legal Aid's Exeuctive Director Libscomb tast year, is designed to prepare cases from any other 
U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North (Across from Holiday Inn) 

SHARE THE RIDE WITH US THIS VACATION AND GET ON TO AGOOD THING. 
Us means Greyhound, and a lot of your fellow students who are already on to a good thing. You leave when you like. Travel comfortably. Arrive refreshed and on time. You'll save money. too. over the increased a1r fares. Share the ride with us on weekends. Holidays. Anytime. Go Greyhound 
GREYHOUND SERVICE 
ONE­ ROUND­YOU CAN  YOU  
TO  WAY  TRIP  LEAVE  ARRIVE  
Chicago  5.85  11.15  4:30p.m.  7:00p.m.  
Detroit  12.30  23.40  10:35 a.m.  :l:45 p.m.  
Cleveland  15.75  29.95  8:55 a.m.  4:10p.m .  
.St. Louis  17.00  :!2.30  9:25 a.m.  fi:50 p.m.  
Toledo  9.60  18.25  9:15p.m.  1:25 a.m.  

Ask your agent about additional departures and return trips. 
(':/ lf~);jiJ 
lO, S OOI(M Sf 0 ~··UI·'I~O· • 
. -: KERMIT TONIGHT SCHAFER'S OPEN 6:IS 
Hit single "You Blew it" by Sam Coslow and sung by Danny Street 
Your Host Bob Edwards, ND '50 

GREYtiOUNo BUS TERMINAL 
210 W. Monroe St. 287-6541 
r 
r 
r 
t 

r " . ~ ­
1111 II II I T I I I ) I t o I i I ' t .. , o 
r 

I'm Nobody! Who are you? 
Are you--Nobody--too? 
Then there's a pair of us! 
Don't tell! they'd banish us--you know! 
How dreary--to be--Somebody! 
How public--like a Frog-­
To tell your name--the livelong June-­
To an admiring Bog! 
---Emily Dickinson 
At lunch today, we talked of how grand it would be to be listed among the campus figures solicited by invitation to have food and-or conversations with President Ford. It would give us a sense of importance to be invited, we said, as though the President's experience of Notre Dame would be incomplete if it didn't include us; depriving him just as surely as if the lakes had been shipped off campus for the day, or the Golden Dome had been sheeted with canvas. Sometimes, we said, being nobodies is no bed of roses. It is much more fun being somebodies who are needed, and sought after, and made to feel important. Monday will be a big day for the important people at Notre Dame. Alas, we said to ourselves; poor. white trash like us never have been. and never will be important. It adds a great deal of sobriety to a lunchtime sandwich to feel so sorry for one's self. 
Perhaps one should feel ashamed for wanting so much to be needed. If so, then perhaps God Himself should feel ashamed. If lie isn't constantly asking to be noticed. then I understand nothing of the demands of the Christian religion. It is pretty hard to ignore a figure nailed to a cross; if thwt figure is recognized by faith as being the Son of God, then forever afterwards I am haunted by the evidence of heaven's caring. A Creator has many ways of com­manding attention: Sunsets can do it; or lightnings, earthquakes, and famines. A sudden sickness can remind me that God is also the king of germ!>; Second Coming can fill the twilight with glory. Some years, it only takes an April; some mornings, it only needs a wood­thrush, and I am the witness of Theophanies saying: "Be still, and know that I am God." Of all the times when God tells me that He loves me, the gentlest way is His crucifixion, the sternest way is my own; but whether he lifts me to a cross, or on it, Christ is always seeking me to be His love. 
Those of us who are not God, are god-like in our need for love. I think of the restlessness of a summer night in the City. The sidewalks are filled with people on their way to, or on the look-<>ut for, excitement or entertainment, or anything else that will divert them from the isolation of being lonely. Always in the midst of the crowds, a figure will appear--a man or woman so completely outcast, so much of a leper-type; so mentally or physically destroyed; so wierd with tics and mutterings, so disturbing in appearance or performance--that only the very curious and the compassionate will even dare to look at him. You wonder to yourself: who cares for this poor soul? Who does he speak to? Who speaks to him? 
But between the pity and the nausea you feel, there comes a kind of half temptation to awareness; befriend this poor outcast, and you may be befriending the dear Christ Himself. Thus, say the legends, did the saints make their visits with God. 
"No," says the practical mind, "it is only a loathsome old derelict from the city streets." So, by being realistic, I miss adventuring with the angels. 
I grow old, I grow shabby; I fear 
the loneliness of being old, when 
age will wither the gifts in me that 
merit love. But I count neither age 
nor shabbiness nor ugliness as the 
wounds of time configuring me to 
the likeness of a slain Lamb. 
Lepers may be the masquerade of 
God. and the dying may bear His 
wounds, but age, if you are the one 
growing old, is not His disguise; 
age is merely dull. So I play the 
charades of being young: I take a 
course, I act a role, I hide the inner 
emptiness with ,a smile. I am 
Prufrock who will not hear the 
mermaids singing, and in growing 
old is a terror of never being loved 
forever. 
I am not ashamed for my need 
of being loved, though I am 
Pmbarrassed if it makes me act 
silly or appear shallow. All of us-­
all of us. including God and man­
are seeking love; no one of us is 
free of that special hunger of the 
heart. Even when we play at the 
MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES 
* 2 FILMS * BOOKSTORE 
* LIVE FLOOR SHOW 
·1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET CALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION 
arts and crafts of being selfish and ambitious, we are merely loving ourselves with a passion no one else seems capable of giving us. We· are building empires for ourselves, attempting to be secure in estates and titles that no man's neglect can take away from us. Only God says: "Thou fool,this night is thy soul required of thee." 
"Fame is no plant that grows on mortal soil, Not in the glistening foil Set off to th' world, nor in broad rumor lies, But lives and spreads aloft by those pure eyes, And perfect witness of all­judging Jove; As he pronounces lastly on each deed Of so much fame in heaven expect thy meed." ---Lycidas 
But even if I build my castles on the estates of human love; and heart linked to heart is joined to mine; and friendship is heaped upon friendship at my door; and I am cherished and regarded with affection like a saint whose shrine eternal vigil is kept; and there are companions for the night-watch, and children at breakfast, and a mate who cheers the daylight and goes with me into the darkness; even then, there would be restless stirrings of the soul that have always been left alone and un­visited. 
0, here 
Will I set up my everlasting rest, 
And shake the yoke of inauspicious stars 
From this world-weried flesh 
Thus said young Romeo, but the words were spoken in the grave. The heart needs to be at peace with its everlasting rest a little sooner than then. 
Golden girls and lads all must, As chimney sweepers, come to dust. 
As with golden girls and their lads who must, so it is with families and friends: they cannot protect us from loneliness forever. "Our hearts were made for Thee, 0 Lord; and they will be restless until they rest in Thee." 
In the end, of course, our answer is God, as you knew it would be when this essay began. But we did not think of God this noon-time as we talked, in the midst of sandwich munching, of Gerald Ford. We thought of important people, and how we needed to be among them, not for their sakes, bur our own; though if we had been asked, we would have said that Gerald Ford needed us, if he wanted to know our kind of Notre Dame. It was only afterwards, from grim meditations, that I realized in wanting to be with Gerald Ford, I wanted to be with God. That's undoubtedly the highest com­pliment any Democrat has paid 
* SMC COFFEEHOUSE* 
TONIGHT ! 
Lone Star Bill Hillstrom & Co. Judy Hoyer &
Mary Ellen 
George
Murray 
under the Y'ALL COME! dining hall 

Gerald Ford since he was elected president. 
It's almost enough of a reason for him to want to meet me. 
r:---------,
MAILTHIS :coUPON FOR : 1FOLDERSON 1 ILOWEST-COST I :FARES & TOURS: 
TO EUROPE 
I of any scheduled airline : 
ITO: ICELANDIC AIRLINES I 6305th Ave., N.Y.,N.Y.10002I 
Phone: (212) 757-8585 1I For Toll Free Number outside1 N.Y., dial Wats Information
I (800J 555"1212 I Name _________ 
I Street ________ I City _________ 
1State Zip __ 
1 Please send folders on: 
D LOWEST YOUTH FARES I Save money no matter when1 you leave, how long you stay! 
D CAMPING TOURS I Deluxe camping for18-30 age group. Big choice of 
I . tours including Eastern Europe. 
D SKI THE ALPS Thur mid-April. Low prices for 1 & 2 week tours. 
D CAR & RAIL TOURS Choiceof1, 2&3weektours. Gowhereyouwant. Campers, too! 
D ICELANDIC TOURS Expeditions for naturalists, geologists. Viking history tours. 
B'AFFINITY GROUP TOURS 
9:00 -1:00

..____________________________: L Your Best Buy In The Sky J 
if you want to be more than just a Nurse ... if you want to be a real Nursing Professional ... chances are you should be a CCOM nurse. 
Why? Because Chicago College of Osteopathic Medicine can offer you the experiences ... and the challenges ... to ensure that you keep on learning and growing in the medical field-even after you leave school. 
Chicago College Of Osteopathic Medicine is a vital, progressive Hospital and Medical Center involved in the full range of health care services ... including specialties like nuclear medicine, radiology, pulmonary and neonatal care, and as a college-owned and operated center, Chicago College Of Osteopathic Medicine offers not only a forward-thinking administration, but the excitement of a medical student and intern training ground. 
Think you're cut out to be a CCOM Nurse? Call today and ask for Personnel ... or mail out the coupon and see. 

Personnel Department 
CHICAGO COLLEGE of OSTEOPATHIC MEDICINE 5200 S. Ellis Avenue. Chicago, Ill. 6061.5 

: I'm interested!! Please send me more information: : NAM : 
I 

ADDRESS_______________ I 
I 

CITY_______STATE____ ZIP__ I 
I I I I 
I PHON 1 
: CURRENTLY ENROLLED AT___WILL GRADUATE 19-· I 
..,_ ____ -----~ ---------------L 
r-------­

Form your own school club group of at least 25 members traveling together. Save money. Have fun with friends. 
Icelandic offers daily scheduled jets from New York, and several jets weekly from Chicago, to Luxembourg in the heart of Europe. At lower fares than any other scheduled airline since 1952! 
SEEYOURTRAVELAGENT 
ICELANDIC 
AIRLINES 
------, 


Founded November 3, 1966 Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief Bob Zogas Business Manager Bob McManus Advertising Manager 
EDITORIAL BOARD Terrv Ke.,ney, New~ Editor: AI Rutherford, Managing Editor: . Jeanne Murphy, Copy Editor; t'red Gra·~er, Editorial Editor Greg Corgan, Sports Ed•tor Mary Janca. St Mary's Editor: Chris Smith, Photo Editor: Bill Brink, Senior Night Editor J 11 n Eder, Ann MeCarry, Pattie Cooney, Zenon Bidzinski. Marlene ZIClZa. Contributing Editors 
Busin.,ss: 283-7471

Editorials: 283-8661 N"ws: 283-1715 
Friday, March 14, "1975 
Ford's Reception 
On Monday a President of the United States will visit Notre Dame. He will be on campus at the invitation of Fr. Hesburgh for 10 hours of activities and events, both connected and apart from the University itself. 
Yet the appearance of Gerald R. Ford at the University of Notre Dame on St. Patrick's Day has a meaning that should not be lost amid the excitement and glamor of preparing for an event that has happened only twice before in this school's history. 
The focal point of the President's ac­tivities Monday will be the Special Academic Convocation in the ACC. This event has been billed by both the White House and the University as an academic event. The faculty of both St. Mary's and Notre Dame will dress in academic garb and Ford will be conferred an honorary degree in a ceremony meant to parallel graduation. 
It makes no sense to advertise as a strictly academic event what is blatantly a politically affair. The purpose of the President's visit of course, is political., thinly disguised under the academic trappings of the Special Convocation. 
The conference of governors scheduled in the Memorial Library is_ simply another in a series of meetings aimed at introducing the President to all the governors. Notre .Dame will be in the national limelight of the press. In ad­dition the presence of 65 media executives on campus provides an audience for a typical political practice. 
The President has thus been provided with the perfect stage and audience from which to make a political statement. Certainly there is nothing wrong with a political leader making a political statement. With the present state of the economy the President certainly must make every effort to see that his politics are pursued and understood by the public.
The President has every right to speak to his Notre Dame audience on the topic of his choice. But a similar right must be extended to those who will come to hear him speak. 
The University has turned what is by all indications a political event, the only appearance by Ford open to the student body and general public, into a "Special Academic Convocation." By labelling 
the Convocation as similar to commencement, the University has ruled that conduct of individuals must be 
appropriate to graduation exercises, not 
to the political event that it really is. 
In effect the University is denying the students a basic First Amendment right to freedom of speech and expression in the ACC Monday. Students will not be allowed to bring banners, signs or placards into the arena. Even those supporting the President are denied this simple right. 
It appears that the academic facade of 
Monday's visit is being overplayed. The 
invitation of only (hose "student leaders" 
on the Academic Council and the College 
Councils points out the misplaced value 
on the academic aspect and not on the 
aspect of student representation through 
various student government bodies and 
student activities. 
The reception given to President Ford on Monday will undoubtly have political significance throughout the country. What is important is that this reception truly reflects the attitudes and ideals of the entire community. Students, faculty, staff and the South Bend community must make an indigenous response to the President despite the attempts to downgrade his appearance as political. 
Fr. Hesburgh, in inviting the President for a St. Patrick's Day appearance and in calling off classes Monday morning, has shown his committment to both the President and the University community. To the President he has extended the opportunity to speak to the community as well as use the University and · its facilities for his functions with the governors and media executives. 
To the students he has made the commitment to see and hear the President of the United States. Yet it is only a partial commitment. Student rights to free speech and participation must be respected. Their true voice must be followed to be heard through thP. Academic Concovation and the informal meeting with the students and faculty. 
OtherwisP. it would be tragic to have the President of the United States and the country as a whole miss seeing the real Notre Dame. 
fhe Editorial Board 


Dpir:aian 
A Call to 
All Students 


This is an open letter to the Notre Dame Student Body. 
We here at Notre Dame will have a very important man on our 
campus Monday and the eyes of the nation will be upon us. 
What happens when most big people visit a college or university 
campus? Do the majority of the people on the campus, i.e. the 
students, get to come in close contact with him and have their 
opinions carry some weight? Generally, no. Ordinarily, the guest 
gives a lecture, meets with a number of "important" people, does a 
little P .R.ing with the masses, gets national coverage, and then is 
rushed off. In our case, we are now told that some of our students 
will have the privilege to meet with Mr. Ford Monday. However, 
these students will only be those who are members of the Academic 
Council and other college councils. 
This has bothered a number of students and has led them to 
consider the possibility of "transcending" the selected students 
organizaions in an attempt to get across a few things to Ford before 
he heads back to Washington, D.C. However, a temporary road­
block has just been thrown at us -yesterday's Observer tells us 
that "authorities" have ruled out any political demonstration or 
protest. It is the purpose of this letter to see if this roadblock can be 
overcome in order to get our message across. 
Our message is this: We students, across the country, are 
becoming very dissatisfied withthe present Ford administration. 
We are dissatisfied for a number of reasons. 
No. 1 The Economy Mr. Ford, we question your proposal to give 
a tax cut to the wealthy instead of the poor. You argue that this will 
stimulate investment and up the buying power of the poor and 
middle sectors of the economy. Congress disagrees with you on this 
problem and so do we. What poor person in these times is going to 
buy a new car? 

a l Our country is in a recession and is heading toward a depression. Unemployment is skyrocketing and by June it is predicted to reach 10 percent nationally. In some parts of the country, e.g. parts of Michigan <your home state) the unem­ployment rate is as high as 45 percent. Your administration wasn't concerned about unemployment until it reached 8 percent. Your main concern was "inflation." 
bl Also, on employment, we students across the country are finding it increasingly hard to find jobs the way the Pconomy is being run now. The unemployment of workers and students has led them both to become angry and frustrated which will be heightened this summer. Ask Mr. Rockefeller what happens in Latin America to political stability when unemployed workers find themselves shoulder-to-shoulder with angry University students. 
c l This unemployment of people has led to, logically, a skyrocketing crime rate. This coming summer is going to be hot. People will be angry. Key "trouble spots" <e.g. Watts, Harlem, Detroit, Oakland, Berkeley, South Chicago, etc.) are going to come alive again. Police forces will already have been preparedto deal with these arising conditions. Right now it is hard not to see the striking similarities here between 1975 and 1928. 
dl Your administartion has put pressure on the Immigration and Naturalization Service to deport and harass one of the most op­pressed sectors of our economy: i.e. the Mexican-American worker. We, as an American people, resent this behavior. These people are not "parasites" our economy. They are an oppressed people and they need our help. 
No. 2 Politics We see your secretary of state "not rule out the possibility" of going to war over oil in the Middle East. Do you actually think our generation-who does the fighting-will put up with another "vietnam" type war? No. 3 CIA 
a l We are appalled by your statements on CIA complicity in 
Chile--justifying the intervention, and that we will "do it again if 
necessary." In Chile, an elected president was overthrown and 
murdered. The military coup that you supported in Chile has 
resulted in Catholic schools being taken over, and priests fleeing 
for their lives. Some of these priests were from the Holy Cross 
Order, Mr. Ford. Notre Dame priests belong to this order, and 
some of the ones that fled are right here on "ur campus. 
b l We are not deceived by the members you appointed on your "blue ribbon" panel to investigate the CIA. Ronald Reagan, Nelson Rockefeller, and a military general are not our idea ofa serious and effective investigative committee. We wonder if they would have uncovered the fact that this agency has been involved in political assasinations and that they hired Mafia leaders to assassinate Fidel Castro. • 
c) We know that the CIA has in the past been recruited on our campus and that this agency uses people for their own means. But we are now proud to say that we graduated Philip Agee from our university. The possibility that other present CIA agents will follow this man's precedent of "blowing the whistle" on the agency would make us Notre Dame students very proud and optimistic. 
No.4. Finally, you, Mr. Ford, are president because you were selected as VP by Richard Nixon-a man whose political judgement was shown to be seriously deficient by events <to put it mildly). We the people did not elect you as our president. Nor did we have any say about Rockefeller -a man whose name is synonomous with economic imperialism in much of the world today. 
Mr. Ford, when you come here on Monday, please don't make the mistake of trying to back-talk or hold us back any longer. These issues we raise are important to us. We students are not unaware or ignorant. We see the way the economy is going and the way the wind is blowing. 
What we, the undersigned, would now like to do is to call on all Notre Dame students to deliver this entire message to President Ford in a direct manner. The time is now. We have a chance to voice our concerns and to set a precedent for students across the country to become involved. 
A meeting will be at 4 pm today in the Grace Pit to organize our protest. ' 
I have sought and received the endorsements of Wes Vargas and Gilbert Cardenes of the Chicano Student Coalition, Robert McCrady and Lon Philips of the Black Student Coalitoon, Fr. Martin Garate, a Chilean priest, and Mary Beckman of CILA and Paul Ramos of the International Student Association. 
PO Box 
moral civility, an abiding imaginative stand that Fegards the cultivation of human ideas of or­der, seeks their realization, and fosters, where possible, their application in the world among other men. I expect and do find that moral civility among my colleagues--students and teachers­-who variously dream of order in laboratories, art studios, and theology lecture rooms. In a just world (one no doubt dreamed into order l Gerald Ford would be on trial for his participation in crimes against the human race--a statement I make with conviction and with awareness of its folly. With what sense of moral civility, then, towards our dreams of order is Gerald Ford being honored here? Are no questions to be raised about the appropriateness of an elevating and approving gesture to this lustreless representative of a tradition of mere power-brokerage when at this moment those power brokers are still dark and sullen towards the legitimate aspirations of all the people of earth? 
I am sorry that this letter is so long, so demurring, and, in a way, simple. 
Yours very truly, Joseph Duffy Professor of English 
Dear Editor: 
As Notre Dame prepares its tribute to President Ford, there are those of us here who grow increasingly uncomfotable. Behind the president's congenial 
smile  is  a  record--a  continuing  
record  of  proud  support  of  
America's  involvement  in  

Southeast Asia, a record of op­position to meaningful progress for this country's poor and minorities, a record of insensitivity and inaction in response to world famine. Gerald Ford, in his public career. has shown little respect for the values and concerns which this christian community professes to hold sacred. 
On behalf of those whose moral sensitivity is offended by this in­congruous recognition, we dissent. 
Tom Vannucci Lisa Vannucci Kevin Gallagher Nick O'Connor Tom Stella 
Pledge Money 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing you in regards to a form that was handed to me Wednesday night <March 12) at dinner in the South Dining Hall. I find myself, along with a number of friends, bewildered by certain aspects of the two pledges that the hunger coalition requested from the students. 
First of all, the first pledge asks that students abstain from meat during the evening meal on fifteen 
days from March 18 to May 6.  The  
question that  occurs  to  me  is:  
where  is  the  money  that  the  

students paid to the University Food Service for meat going to be spent? Is this money going to be sent to the needy? Will it be refunded to the students? Or will it end up in somebody's shoebox?! 
Secondly, the other pledge on the form requests that students refrain from eating dinner on Wednesdays from March 19 to April 30. In return, the Food Service will graciously give 50 cents to the Hunger Coalition for each student fasting on each of these seven days. I would estimate that the cost to the University for one dinner would be at the very least $1.00 per student. (It is probably more since this same food service charges $2.50 per dinner in the public cafeteria.) What I would like to know is: where is the rest of the money that is saved going? Into someone's pocket? 

Friday, March 14, 1975 the observer 
DOONESBURY 
• 
~CN"'<~-+ 
NO, M?, I /A/ANT OH, YOIJ ACTION! SOM&­M&AN 
THING 7lJ GeT MY IIIII/) BOAR 
MINPCFF MY HUVT1N6,
IIDQ<-/(N()(AJ SIR!! UHAT I MEAN? \ 
" 
I am not against the Hunger Coalition. I think these people support a very noble cause. All I want is to see the students and the Coalition get a fair shake. 
Biran Schoenrock '78 Michael Treemarcki '78 
For A 
New Library 
Dear Editor: 
I amwriting this for the inmates Co-Qrdinating committee of the 
Southern  Ohio  Correctional  
facility.  We  are  asking  for  
donations  to  start  a  prison  

newspaper and adequate library supply of reading material for all inmates. The establishment flatly refuses to give a hand in this prisoners project. Therefore our only alternative left is to ask you in society to help1us in our time of need. Please remember no amount is too small, and please do notsend cash, but check or money only, to Inmates Co-Qrdinating 
Committee Director, 
James Royce P.O. Box 787 Lucasville, Ohio 45648 
Thank you, James Royce 
Forgotten 
Girls 
Dear Editor: 
Please forgive us for the distant removal of this letter from the source of its instigation. As have others, we have been beset with the perils of college life, the presence of papers and tests as therest of the campus has been. A lull in the academia has allowed the op­portunity to grasp at the respite and pen this needed statement. 
It seems that keeping with its reputation of oversights, errata and last but not least overtones of personal bias, yes that involves you Mr. Sports Editor, The Ob­server has once again put its proverbial foot in its proverbial mouth. If you will remember back to last Thursday's edition ('1:7 February 1975) and the sports page of that issue, we're sure that the hald page article on the cheerleaders will come to mind. 
Please do not misunderstand( this is not to say that the article wasn't a good one--it was. The main problem was that it left out the names and qualities of five of 

by Garry Trudeau 
Notre Dame's cheerleaders. Their names are-Bethann McGregor, Donna Brown, Mickey Brines, Beth Klein and JqAnne Daner. The members of the fanatics will probably, hopefully, recognize these names as will a few other people. The knowledge of the existence by The Observer of these women is very doubtful. 
We say doubtful because three of these five have been skating together as Hockey Cheerleaders since their inception three years ago and The Observer has never even acknowledged their existence. These girls work very hard at their jobs and not before this year have they even been given recognition at the games. 
The purpose of this letter is not to 
"put down" the Football and 
Basketball cheerleaders, they do a 
great job. The main driving force 
behind this is to blow the horn of 
the only skating cheerleader squad 
in the WCHA, perhaps in the 
country. In a reminiscent moment 
after the season finale, Captain 
Bethann McGregor said, "You 
know, in four years we've never 
had our picture in The Observer." 
That doesn't say much for our 
campus newspaper. 
It's too late now. The 4-6 hours of 
practice for each trip on the ice is 
over, for this year at least. If an 
article were to be done now it 
would only seem to be a correction 
of an oversight <let's hope that's all 
it was> in, order to save face. All 
that can be done now is to hope that 
the same unfortunate thing doesn't 
happen next year. 
Bo, Chuck & Harry 

All letters to the editor should be 
sent to The Observer, Post Office Box 
Q. 
Only letters with nilmes and ad· 
dresses will be considered for print. 
Signatures will be withheld upon 
request, but signed letters will be 
given priority. 
All letters are subject to editing tor 
length and content. 
the observer 
Night Editor-Va I Zurblls Ass't Night Editor-Katie Kerwin Layout-Ginny Faust, Gregg 
Bangs, Tom O'Neil Copy Readers-Bob Radziewicz, Ann McCarry 
DAY Editor-Maureen Flynn, Mary Egan Editorials-Amantea Features-Tom O'Neil Sports-Greg Corgan Typists-Anne Peeler, Rick Huber, Jim Landis, Don Roos, C. Arrleh Compugraphic .-John· Kuhn 
Picture Screener-AI Night Controller-M.J. Foley Headliner-Alface Ad Layout. Bob Tracy 

Enough •
' 
Dear Editor: Wake up N.D.!!!!! '('ause this is to tell you That WE no longer are silent. WE a•·e not militant or violent. Btft ENllFF is ENllFF!!!! And WE ain't takin' no mo' stu££!!!!! 
Again the Black student body of this campus has been given a tremendous slap in the face. Recently, an aritcle was published in the Observer, March 6th, by Jeff Pecore, staff reporter, which stated, "there has been frequent talk lately by students and ad­ministrators that the Black Cultural Arts Center .. .is not used t-nough by students to justify its existence." 
It must be seen that the Cultural Arts Center represents a culture, a race of people <the largest minority in the United States and one of the largest at Notre Dame) and not a program happening one week in a year. It is too bad for all concerned that after all this time Notre Dame is still the same, still ignoring the needs of Blacks, still having prejudiced committees and minority UN-concerned leaders. Notre Dame would appear to be a place of disillusions and closed t-ars. We are constantly segregated by the loose phrase ·•you people". Is it not said that 
Notre  Dame  represents  the  in­ 
terests of all students?  
With  no  Cultural  Arts  Center,  

there are few, if that many, ac­tivities left on this campus for the Black student to participate in that have any relevance or meaning to. him what-so-ever. 
Father Schlaver commented, "I really get frustrated when I walk by there and see the place empty all of the time. It seems that the Center is dying but I guess it is better to let it die than to kill it." Schlaver also stated that the Center is mainly a social center and that of late has fallen into disuse. Schlaver's statements appear quite inadequate and generalized. Do Schlaver's "daily walks ALL of the time" persist during lunch or class hours? Schlaver, just WHEN do you walk??? And so long as you are walking, why must you route your path past the Black Cultural Arts Center??? Granted, the Center's use is social, but the Center is also used for in­formational purposes, storing datr. symposiums, lecture series, Black community events, Ujamaa and Scholastic Frontier Society meetings. and receptions for speakers brought to the campus, not only by the Black Studies Program. but also by the Activities Commission: (i.e. Angela Davis, Stokely Carmichael and Harry Edwards l as well as informal gatherings of Black students. 
Schlaver's observation that the social use of the Center has fallen into disuse is entirely unjustified. Almost every Black student on this campus at one time or another has used the center. Some use it consistentlyfor data kept there. It seems as though Schlaver's statement would label those who use the Center irrelevant. Although we are labeled irrelevant. just think what N.D. would be like if these Blacks started a campaign to inform high schools throughout the United States on the way Balcks are treated on this campus. It is doubtful N.D. would ever again recruit another Black. 
What would the N.D. football and basketball teams be like if there weren't a Black athlete on them-­but we are irrelevant. Yes, we are irrelevant!!! That's exactly what the article is telling us as Black people. 
Schlaver was also cited as . saying, "when the Center was founded, the Black student at 

Notre Dame, or any other college, felt a pressure to be a separatist. The type of Black Student we are getting now is less concerned with the Black movement and a separatist philosophy." It should be noted that the concern among Blacks regarding the Liberation Movement was and still is going on. Yes, the fight for Liberation still continues but in "subtle" hardhitting ways. In essence, Blacks are continually turning the tide of oppression. · 
Notre Dame hascausedtoo many injustices to Black students already--the most recent public insult was presented in the Dome (yearbookl, the section on "Black Students". Black Students are not a separate entity here at Notre Dame. But we are unique (as all students here, be you white, yellow, or polka dot l in culture, customs,and backgrounds. No, we aren't here to fill the quota but because we have the intellectual ability to match and surpass any student enrolled here. No we all aren't on scholarships (many Blacks--myself included) our parents work hard to pay our full tuition and I like other students demand respect. One way or the other we are going to get that respect. 
To take the Black Cultural Arts Center would be to deny our existence--and that would be asinine--because we are as vivid as pepper in salt. 
People are alw~ys saying Black 
People are always complaining ... I wonder why? I repeat: WAKE liP N.D.!!!!! "('ause this is to tell you That we no longer are silent. We are not militant or violent. But ENUFF is ENUFF!!!! AND WE AIN'T TAKIN' NO MO' stuff!!!!! 
Ms. Andrea Renee Ransom 
Ford's 
Visit 
Dear Editor: 
I am reluctant to enter again an area of controversy on which I have spent much time and feeling over the past twelve years, so much of a life--that of the war in Southeast Asia. But it is necessary to speak about the presence of Gerald Ford on this campus and, in particular, about the conferring of an honorary doctorate of law on him by Notre Dame. 
The worthiness of Mr. Ford as a public figure might be questioned on the basis of his long mediocre career in Congress undistinguised over a quarter a century by the sponsorship of any significant legislation and marked in its last period by subservience to Richard Nixon. Equally questionable during this time and more recently in his presidential budget is his relentless support of military extravagance joined with in­difference to the poor of this country and to the world's suf­fering. Instead, I would focus on Mr. Ford's blue-eyed enthusiasm for America's murderous en­terprise in Vietnam, his manipulation in 1973 of a six week's extension of our bombing in Cambodia, and now. precisely, on his demands for more money for more killing in a country already made so wretched by the arsenal of the United States. 
At issue, thr>r..:{ore, is neither his unimportan:. ."er as party servant nor his c.:tugether inept six months in office as unelected President but rather the propriety of honoring1him inthe midst of his blood-soaked campaign <it comes to that despite the corrupt ob­scuring rhetoric of the Ad­ministration). During the late sixties there was often propper complaint about the loss of civility and consequent unruliness of discourse in1 the universities. 
I There is also such a matter as 
Friday, March 14, 1975
the observer 
Jesse Jackson to speak at Civil Rights lecture 
One of America's leading black spokesmen, Rev. Jesse L. Jackson, will join several noted authorities planning to attend the annual Civil Hights Lectures and Conference at the University of Notre Dame April 16-18. The annual series is sponsored by the Center for Civil Hights and the Law School and will he open to the public. 
State and national leaders at­tending the conference in the llnivt•rsity's Center for Continuing l<:ducation will focus on the theme "Bt•yond Civil Rights: The Right to l<:conom ic Security." Discussion topics will embrace health care and its distribution, urban education and the right to quality education, economic distress and minority groups, and 
welfare  reform  and  
redistribution.  The  latter  two  
cover  the  right  to  meaningful  

Pmployment and the right to an adequate income. 
.Jackson was a top aide to the late Hev. Martin Luther King who split three years ago from the Southern Christian Leadership Conference to form Operation PUSH--People United to Save Humanity. This is an outgrowth of Operation Breadbasket, the economic arm of SCLC. 
Jackson's acceptance of the invitation to speak at the 1975 Civil Hights Lectures and Conference has been hailed by Howard Glickstein, director of the Notre Dame Center. as assurance that the event will continue to bring the most knowledgeable spokesmen to the campus. Previous speakers have been the late Justice Earl Warren. who discussed the judicial chronology of civil rights movements; Sen. Philip Hart, the legislative perspective, and Sargent Shriver. participant in many of the executive decisions during the presidencies of John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson. 
"Jackson has been a participant in every major civil rights activity since the Selma march," Glickstein said. "He will be able to accurately define the immediate goals of the movement in the light of the current economic and moral problems facing the country." 
Rev.-Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame president and former chairman of the nation's Civil Rights Commission, has set the theme for the conference with a plea for recognition of the l'conomic and social rights of all citizens. rather than symbolic references to Constitutional 
legislation assuring equal and Welfare's Medical Service economics and management. privileges for all citizens. Administration. Later the same day, the topics of 
Joining them at the public talks A similar group, discussing "the welfare reform, redistribution of during the three-day session will right to quality education," will income and the right to an be several nationally prominent include Dr. James S. Coleman, adequate income will be discussed legislators, educators, medical University of Chicago sociologist; by James R. Dumpson, New York authorities and labor leaders who Jose A. Cardenas, San Antonio. City commissioner of Human will participate in discussions on director of Intercultural Resources Administration; health care, urban education, Development Research 
Nathan Glazer, Harvard professor Pconomic distress and welfare Association; Velma M. Hill, vice­reform. Governor Jerry Apodaca president of the American of New Mexico will be the speaker f<'ederation of Teachers, and at opening day banquet. Barbara A. Sizemore, superin­
Addressing the subject of "right tendent of public schools in the to health" for all will be former District of Columbia. rongresswoman Martha W. Focusing their remarks at an Griffiths of Michigan; Dr. John April 18 session on the right to 
L.S. Holloman, president of New meaningful employment will be York City Health and Hospital Richard Freeman. Harvard Corporation; Dr. E. Peter Isacson, t•conomlcs professor; William professor jind head of the depart­Lucy, international secretary­ment of preventive medicine at the treasurer of the American llniversity of Iowa, and Howard N. Federation of State, County and Newman. president of the Dart­Municipal Employees; Marcus G. 
mouth-Hitchcock Medical Center Haskin. director of the Institute for and former commissioner in the Policy Studies, and Lester C. Department of Health, Education Thurow. MIT professor ·of 
Legal Aid service outlined 
leaving the program." 
University Referrals in par­ticular has problems this semester with staffing. The four students who work for the division this semester are dedicated, but "we don't have enough to keep regular hours this semester", noted Director Joe Cassini. 
Another area which is unresolved concerns the extent to which law students can advise undergraduates involved in University judicial proceedings. A rule drawn up by the SLC two years ago stipulates that an un­dergraduate ahs a "free choice of undergraduate student counsel" (J)u Lac. "Student Rights and Disciplinary Proceedings", Rule No.7>. 
But Joe Cassini indicated that he would like to represent and advise undergraduates in their dealings with the University. "I talked with Dean Macheca about this", Cassini stated, "and he seemed to be in favor of the idea. w~ might start such a program next year." 
Brian McGinty, Student Government Judicial Co­Ordinator, explained that although Dean Macheca and the University J-Board could grant a student permission to be represented by a law student. the undergraduate has no right to other than un­dergraduate counsel. 
of education and social structure; Frances Fox Piven, Boston University professor of political science, and Alcie M. Rivlin, senior fellow of the Brooking In­stitution and former assistant secretary for planning and Pvaluation in the Department of Health. Education and Welfare.
. 


campus view 

(continued from page 4) 
division which have to be taken to 
"OUrt. 
"The idea modeled on the organization of a law firm," stated Maureen Power, the division's only present staff member. "Thus far this year there has been no litigation so I haven't had any work to do in this area." 
Powers worked with Fr. Thomas Tallarida and the Off-Campus Housing Office earlier this year in writing the off-campus booklet and drafting the model lease, which provides students with an idea of what their leases should cover. 
Problem'S 
In an organization as varied and complex as Legal Aid, problems are inevitable. The complaint voiced most often by the division directors was that of insufficient manpower. 
The heavy academic workload of the law school limits the amount of time a student can devote to Legal Aid. The recession has had an adverse affect as many students turn toward jobs for which they receive wages. 
"One of the problems with the cass County program", noted Director Jack Garbo, "was that many of our staffers were drop­ping the program in the middle of 
guarantees. Both he and the year or even of the semester. Glickstein. in appearances last We insist that if a student has a week before Congressional sub-commitment to a particular case committees, asked for progress m that he finish that case before 

CAMPUS 
VIEW 
GJE and T\t\0 BEDRCX>M 
FURNISHED APARTMENTS 
... 
COMMUNITY BUILDING ... IN~OOR SWIMMING POOL 
A N~W APARTMENT COM­.... -BASKETBALL COURT 
MUNITY DEVELOPED FOR 

... SHAG CARPET 
THE STUDENTS OF NOTRE DAME & SAINT MARY'S. CAMPUS ... 2 BATHS IN 2 BEDROOM APT VIEW IS SET IN A WOODED 
~ ALL APPLIANCES COLOR 
SURROUNDING YET IS ONLY COORDINATED 

... 
SECURITY•3 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME. 
LOCATED JUST ONE BLOCK 
... 

SOUND CONDITIONEDNORTH OF STATE RD. 23 OFF 
OF WILLIS'RD. il PRIVACY 
NOW RENTING FOR FALL SEMESTER ( '75 -'76 SCHOOL YEAR ) FOR RENTAL INFORMATION PHONE 272-1441 
Friday, March 14, 1975 

the observer 
9 

Ford visit stirs cur1os1ty 
by Pat Cuneo Filled with the traditional pomp him or not." 
Sta £f Reporter and circumstance, the ceremony Pageantry will highlight Mon­
was carried live over two national day's events. Ford will receive an 
Student interest yet puzzlement broadcasting networks, NBC and honorary Doctor of Laws degree at 1 currently exists over the exact CBS. a special convocation at 11:00 a.m. reason of President Ford's visit to The December 13, 1935 issue of President Ford's correspon­the Notre Dame campus on the Scholastic magazine reported, dence with University President Monday. "At his departure, the President 1 Fr. Theodore Hesburgh on the 
Ford's appearance marks only produced a pack of cigarettes. World Hunger issue will most 
the third time an American Immediately the keen eyed crowd likely be a key issue discussed. 
President has visited du Lac and of student admirers who Various interesting preparations 
for the first time the event has surrounded the party shouted have· unfolded. Both Flanner and 
been rushed so that not even the 'Camels'; thus indicating that the Grace Halls and the Memorial 
purpose for this meeting has been New Deal occasionally 'gets a Library will be sealed off by 
revealed. Both Franklin D. lift'." Security on Monday in order that 
Roosevelt's visit in 1935 and In his speech, Roosevelt stated no one will have access to the 
Dwight D. Eisenhower's stay in that, "this country regards outside roofs. This is one case of 
1960 were arranged well in ad-religious and educational freedom presidential security. 
vance. as supreme among the rights of Much has taken place since 
Nine thousand people jammed men." Elaborating, he said, "the President Ford's decision on 
into the Old Fieldhouse on spirit traditional of Notre Dame, Wednesday to visit Notre Dame. 
December 9, 1935 to listen to substantiates the principles of The campus community has 
l{oosevelt praise the Philippino's which I've spoken." readied itself and now awaits the 
as the Notre Dame community Similar to Roosevelt, President president's arrival with increasing 

celebrated Philippine's day, a Dwight Eisenhower was awarded anticipation. 
tribute to the new island republic. the Doctor of Laws degree prior to 
The program commemorated 400 delivering his commencement 
years of Catholicity in the address on June 5, 1960. The Collections for 
Philippines as well as the birth of President's appearance at Notre 
the infant republic. In fact, the Dame followed the explosive Paris 
celebration had actually been Summit Conference, and in his dystrophy slated postponed from November 15, in address, Eisenhower explained the 
In the spirit of St. Patrick, theorder that the President could problems lying ahead in the United Alpha Phi Omega Fraternity willattend. University President Rev. States foreign policy. 

be out in force this Saturday,.John !''. O'Hara awarded both With President Ford's visit only Sunday,and Monday at the NorthHoosevelt and Carlos Romalo, a three days away, many students and South dining halls collectingPhilippine publisher. the highest have expressed interest in the the ''green'' to share the luck of theacademic honor the University can sheer novelty of actually seeing a Irish wilh people afflicted bybestow--the degree of Doctor of United States' president, muscular dystrophy and relatedLaws. ·'regardless of whether you like 

diseases. Harry Bainbridge, co-chariman·

Henry Fonda to appear in of the "Shamrocks Against 
Dystrophy" drive on campus announcd that volunteers aiding 
the South Bend Chapter of the Musulcar Association will give a lucky "Shamrocks" button pic­turing MDA's Leprechaun, Paddy O'Brian, to everyone contributing to the campaign. 
The program is endorsed by Dan Devine, head football coach and National Vice-President of the MDA. 
Shamrocks, according to the Irish, are the symbol of hope and monies raised in this campign give exactly that--hope, through MDA's research programs, for a healthy tomorrow as well as help today through patient service programs. 

'Darrow' at Morris Civic 
LITTLE MEXICO

Henry Fonda as Clarence Darrow 
Henry Fonda, distinguished star Morris Civic and the Notre Dame 
TACOS 0 

of stage and screen, will be ap-Student Union Ticket Office. Mail ­
pearing in the stage production of orders are also available by 
Homemade '
CHILl -­

"Clarence Darrow" at the Morris sending payment in a self­
Delicious ,-· 

Civic Auditorium. April 3 through addressed envelope to the Morris 
CONEY DOGS\ 

April 5. The veteran actor will Civic. 
Mexican Style

play the lead role as the famous Prices for tickets will be $4.50, 
trial lawyer and champion of the $5.50, $6.50 and $7.50. There will be 
SPAGHETTI 0 underdog in the Scopes "monkey a student discount -$1 off the 
ICARRY-OUT 277-1030 I

trial" concerning the evolution of regular price -for the Thursday 
man. night performance. Curtain time 
.136 Dililw1j lerth, Rolll111d Mill 12-1. TtW·n 11·1130, lii·Sat,1J.12

Tickets are now on sale at the for all shows will be 8 p.m. 
The OBSERVER Is Looking For A Few Good Men Or Women To Fill The Following Positions In The Business Department 
-----------------------*----------------------­
DVERTISING DVERTISIN
BUSINESS 
MANAGER 
MANAGER 
SALESMEN 

*Compensation on a Commission Basis *Excellent Practical 
*A Salaried Position *A Salaried Position 
Excellent Opportunity 
*Work Your Own HoursExperience in Running 

for Anyone Interested in a Business 
*Your Earnings

Managing the Im­
Potential Is Limited 

portant. Function of Ad 
Only by Your Ability to

*Applicants Should Be 
Sales for The Observer 
Sell Have Some Accounting 
Accountancy Majors or 
*Great Practical Ex­

Experience 
*Some Sales Experience 
perience for anyIs Preferred Marketing Students or*No Newspaper Ex­Anyone Planning on

perience Is Necessary Going into Sales as a 
Career 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
SUBMIT YOUR RESUME TO . 
Bob logos 
Box Q, Notre Dame before March 17 
, I

' I . I ' ' 1' • ' . ' • t ' I ' • ~ 
' t • • t t • ,._ It If 'I' • I • $ " 
• ,. " ..... .,. ..... • • • • • or • T" ... • .. -• -. ,. • • • .,. '"' "' • • ' 
..·............. . 
ANTHROPOLOGY Meet-your-maior get-together Sun. March 16 8 pm Library Lounge 
GRADUATE PARTY 
at Lewis HaU 
UNLIMITED WINE AND CHEESE 
FRIDAY, MARCH 14 9:00 P.M. TICKETS: $1.00 IN ADVANCE (AT lEWIS HAll DESK) $1.50 AT DOOR 
SUNDAY MASSES 
MAIN CHURCH  
Sal.  5:15p.m.  Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.  
Sun.  9:30 a.m.  Fr. Richard Conyers, C.S.C.  
Sun.  10:45 a.m.  Fr. Tad Guzie, S.J.  
Sun.  12:15 p.m.  Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C.  

REGINA & ZAHM PRESENT 
HEIDLEBERG PARTY 
FRIDAY,MARCH 14 8:30 MUSIC BY WIND 
Transportation provided at Circle 
$3 GUYS ALL THE BEER 52 GIRLSyou CAN DRINK CALL 3191 FOR TICKETS NOW 
ST. PATRICK S DAY 
+GREEN BEER 
+LOW, LOW PRICE 
=FAT OLE WALLY#S 
2046 SOUTH BEND AVENUE 
SPECIAL HOURS FOR ST. PATS NOON· 2 A.M. 
1 l 
-
l 
' 

Friday, March 14, 1975
10 the observer 
Huge US nuclear arsenal called hazard 

from aircraft carriers; and a and nuclear cannons that can weapon in Europe. weapons in bombs, depth charges,
By I>ANIEL F. GILMORE WASHINGTON <UPil -A substantial increase in security deliver 7,000 U.S. tactical nuclear In Asia, it said the United States torpedoes and missles. At home, the report said the
research center said Thursday the precautions around domestic weapons. maintains on land 1,700 tactical 
llnited States has an weapon sites and storage depots. "These weapons carry a com­nuclear weapons located in South armed forces maintain an
arsenal of 
The report said the American bined explosive capability Korea and the Philippines and at estimated 14,800 nuclear weapons-
nearly 30,000 nuclear weapons 
nuclear arsenal included 22,000 equivalent to a!l estimated 460 U.S. installations on Guam and 10,800 tactical and 4,000 strategic
which invite an enemy first strike, 
tactical weapons and 8,000 million tous of TNT -roughly 35,000 Midway in the Pacific. weapons deployed at U.S.
are susceptible to premature firing 
strategic weapons -a number, it times greater than the nuclear At sea, it said, the United States Minuteman and Titan missile sites
and theft by terrorist. 
The Center Defense said, which will increase to 8,500 by weapon that destroyed Hiroshima has approximately 7,000 strategic and at Strategic Air Command
for In­
formation. a the middle of this year. in 1945," it said. and tactical nuclear weapons. bomber bases.
private organization headed by retired Rear Adm. Gene In Europe, it said, the United The center claimed there are two Some 284 U.S. Navy ships and "Thousands more are stockpiled 
States and its NATO allies have ll.S. tactical nuclear weapons submarines are capable of at U.S. storage facilities," the
H. La Rocque. said the force is too 
large and dangerous and should be 2,250 aircraft, missile launchers for each Soviet tactical nuclear delivering 12,000 tactical nuclear Center said. reduced. It said that nearly 15,000 nuclear wt•apons are stored in the United States with the rest scattered throughout Europe and Asia and 
Meet Your. Major set far this week 
on ships and submarines at sea. Asked to comment, the Pentagon said it maintained a policy of "not 
College, the program will consist
addressing itself to the number or The Student Advisory Council of "Meet Your Major" program. 16-20, Sunday through Thursday.
of individual presentations by the
location or nuclear weapons." the College of Arts and Letters, in Designed to aid students in their The format of each presentation
various departments scheduled
The report said the llnited States cooperation with th~ Dean's office investigation of the various major will be simple. Each department,
throughout the evenings of March
has bt>en producing strategic is again sponsoring the annual fields of study offered by the as a rule, will make a presentation nuclear wt•apons "at the rate of outlinning its particular charac­
UATE TIME LOCATION

three per day for the past four llEP,\HTMENT teristics: requirements, special
AmPrican Studies March 16 7:00pm 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall
\'Pars. programs, graduate school 
-
March16 8:00 pm Library Lounge
· It l'oncluded that the United Anthropology possibilities, etc. Faculty mem­States has too many nuclear Area Studies Program Ht ld in conjunction with the Government Department bers and student majors from each wt•apons, that there is no overall Art March 20 7:30pm ISIS Gallery <Old Fieldhouse) department .will be on hand to policy for their use, that they invite Black Studies March 18 7:00pm :!45 O'Shaugnessy Hall answer questions. Printed in­an enemy first strike, that they are Economics March 19 7::!0 pm 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall formation about major areas of susceptible to premature firing Education March 18 9:00pm 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall study will be available at the and vulnerable to theft and English March 20 7:00pm 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall mt•etings, in addition to brochures detonation by terrorists. General Program March 19 1\:30 pm Library Lounge describing departmental It called for a substantial cut in Govt. and International Studies March 17 8:30pm 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall programs which can be found in the number of ·u.s. nuclear History March 18 6:30pm 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall many of the departmental offices. weapons in Europe; abolition of Modern and Classical Languages March 18 7:00pm _105 O'Shaughnessy Hall Quick Reaction Alert Aircraft Music March 18 7:30 pm 247 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
..-·-··--------­
RIVER PARK

poised at airfields abroad fully Philosophy March 16 li::~o pm Library Lounge armed with nuclear weapons; Psychology March 19 " li:30 pm 109 Haggar Hall removal of forward deployed Speech and Drama March 19 7:30pm Washington Hall 
HELD OVER 

. atomic artillery and atomic Sociology March 18 8:00pm ID LaFortune mines; remeval of all nuclear Theology March 16 9:00 pm 104 O'Shaul!hnessy Hall weapons from Asian states and llrban Studies Held in conjunction with the Government Department . 
............................................... 
:THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION:Bulte, McGuire, :• • PROUDLY PRESENTS :• • 
Harbert McGarry i• SUNSHINE i• 
• i A TRIP TO FREEPORT i gatn Bengal's titles : IN THE BAHAMAS : rfHE 
(continued from page 12) 
the night's fir-st bout Terry 
~ 8 DAYS & 7 NIGHTS ISTEPFORD
other bleeder was muscular Rob 
Broderick placed his left jab at will 
MPtzler at 155, who absorbed a 
to gain the unanimous decision at 
: I WIVES
bloody mouth cut from Matt over cheerleader Dennis 
1\kGrath's insistent left jab. : F0 R 0 Nl Y I A"~t "";.INn suspn{w ""'l
Buchanan. . 
Pespite his scarlet face, Metzler e I from ltw.artt.IJI nf RtN."fll,Jry'sB.thy. 
125 $2490 0
Tht:· proprietor of the Bengals, 
: ' i '· [';,, UMBIA i'l~!tJH!' .w "AIIJMAR PICIURfS tNTE~NA11t1NAI
wa!.. still firing al fight's end but 
Dominick J. (Nappy) Napolitano e IJ;p••,:311n11. 'ur.'lla_~:~~a~.Pr_odu~-~~l
Af.J.~··· 

1\ldirath avoided his powerful 
was pleased with the Pvening, "No 
punches to gain the una'limous • • I
knockouts, I like that; just fine : INCLUDES: : TOMORROW AT 8 P.M. I
dt•eision. 
eompetition. We had great crowds 
: : SNEAK PREVIEW OF 1
.\t 140, Pat O'Brien held the lead 
this year. I was especially pleased
aftt•r two rounds as Mike Cramer : * ROUND TRIP AIR FARE VIA DC-9 : ACADEMY AWARD 1
with the student reaction. It was 
and cornerman Tony Montagnese 
like the days of my generation in 
: FROM SOUTH BEND : NOMINEE I
huddled. The result of the strategy 
the fieldhouse." 
session was alooping left hook that 
There was no heavyweight bout i * MEALS AND LIQUOR IN-FLIGHT i ELLENA!~RSTYN ~ 
consistently snuck outside 
due to Doug Becker's illness. In 
0 'Brien's defenses to connect with 
the two special chllmpionships 
: * ACCOMODATIONS AT THE : KRISKRISTOF· I
the side of the head. When O'Brien 
added to the final night's card, 
• • I
tried to counteract this, Cramer 
.John Albers scored a unanimous : CASTAWAYS • FERSON'S LATEST 
scored with his right to win a split 
win over Roger Varela at 145 while . FLICK!
:I I 
dt•cision. 
Dave Tezza was a unanimous 
: * CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST DAILY : lcoME AS LATE AS 8P.MI
Slashing I>an "Zorro" Betan­
victor over Ronquillo at 130. And court threw most of the punches at as usual, the special winner .vas : * FULL DINNER DAILY :lAND SEE BOTH FLIX I 
160 hut Kevin Poupore's com­the Holy Cross Missirm in • I
•I
binations were more effective as 
Bangladesh. : * U.S. DEPARTURE TAX :1 Another Special Event I
Poup t•arned a split decision. In 
: : I In The American I
r------------------------, : OPTIONS: :I Film Theatre Season 1
I THIS SUNDAy NIGHT MAR 16 lSI 
: SAILING, TENNIS, GOLF, SCUBA :I Of Special Events.
IN.D. & S.M.C. NIGHT AT SHULA'S' 1
• • I 1NO COVER CHARGE WITH THISAI:J : DIVING, DEEP-SEA FISHING, : IMONDAY & TUESDAi 
I I : SCOOTER RENTALS, SNORKELING : AT 2 PM & 8 PM I
I NOW APPEARING I 
• • I 
: : I
I SKIP VAN I 
: : I
I WRINKLE I • • I 
: $50 DEPOSIT REQUIRED : I
I AND I 
: : I
I I 
: SIGN UP NOW : 1
I LISTEN I 
• • I 
: : I
I I 
II ~ II :BROCHURES AND INFO AVAILABLE AT : 1 :STUDENT UNION TICKET. OFFICE (2nd : cin:::a~:;t~nc?,~!:::ent." I
I• ~ 'SfrJa ~ r/ile (/'J, ~ : 1
:Floor LaFortune) OR CALL 283-3031 -AfterDark 
I NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS I 
: : Tickets' $5.00 Evenings. I
I on uS. 31 Mtw"" Milts. So a.u,.. ,arkinc-61J...C350 I 
•. PLUS TAX AND GRATUITIES/PRICE ••. I $3.5o Matinees. ($2.50 for
SeniorCitizens/Students at 1

I I : IS PRO·RATA CHARTER PRICE : I Matinees.) Available after
I I e • 1 AFT Season T1cket holders I : OPEN TO NO COMMUNI y :I l are seated. . I
.•............................•.•....]........... .~.. __________. 
'.$
L-------------~-----------J 
Keenan captures I H title 
than a four point lead. Off-Campus 
by Fred Herbst led at the end of the first half 27-25. 
Off-Campus held their lead until 
Keenan I swept the first two Keenan moved ahead with five games of a three game series with minutes to play. Frank Allocco Off-Campus III to claim the In-then traded baskets with Keenan terhall Basketball Championship. until the final seconds. With While Keenan took the first two Keenan ahead by two points, games, Off-Campus remained in Bedford Bruno hit from the contention until the final buzzer. baseline to knot the score at 48 and 
Keenan won the first game of the force the overtime period. final series in a 54-52 overtime In the overtime, Off-Campus thriller. Throughout the game broke out on top by scoring on a neither squad could namage more fastbreak layup. Mike Banks then 
DiBiaso-MeLaughlin 
(continued from page 12) 
"I wasn't really sure about coming to Notre Dame at first," says McLaughlin. "But once I came out here there was no doubt in my mind thad that NO had super basketball ootential." 
'Living m Muth Bend was an adjustment at first," explains !<'rank. no understatement since he hails from the Bronx. "But I like it. there's enough to do." Reflecting on his status as a bachelor he says; ·'I'm not against marriage, but I guess my views on it are rather conservative. I've just seen too many guys have problems, I mean look at the national ·divorce rate." 
Married and the father of two children. DiBiaso also is happy in 'South Bend, but for more familial reasons. 
"Being a family man I find it a fine place to raise a family, the ND community and South Bend too," DiBiaso says. "The students don't see South Bend in the same way as a married adult. I love it." 
Di Biaso began playing basketball at Monessen High School in Pennsylvania, then going on to attend Mansfield, PA. State College where he captained his team his senior year. Upon graduating he began coaching at Beacon High School in Beacon, N.Y., the home of one Richard Phelps. He coached at Beacon for six years until he moved to Virginia in 1968. He served as an assistant there until an acquain­tance of his in Beacon, Digger Phelps, asked him to accompany him to Notre Dame. 
"I thought it was a great op­
portunity to be with one of the 
outstanding basketball minds in 
the country," says DiBiaso of his 
decision to move. "And of course 
the University of Notre Dame is 
one of the great schools. 
As assistant coaches DiBiaso 
and McLaughlin handle the 
scouting of Irish Opponents. 
recruiting of young talent, ad: ministrative duties and of course their work down on, the court in practice and during games. But the coaches see their role as more than just an instructor in the game of basketball. 
"It's like teaching," says McLaughlin, "being involved in the players lives and trying to help them out. Hopefully you'll be able to influence and help them mature and become responsible in­dividuals. It's great to be involved in a program that has had a Shumate or a Dantley but it's also important that others go on to be successful in say the business world." 
Both coaches have gained considerable respect now in basketball world, and there is often speculation as to just how long it can be before one or both of them accepts a head coaching job elsewhere. But neither DiBiaso nor McLaughlin actively seek any other position or feel dissatisfied with their situation here, though neither is totally closed to any possibilities. 
"I'm very happy coaching here," says McLaughlin. "I'm spoiled here at NO, they treat us good. But if a job comes up that I feel would be challenging and worthwhile. l'.d be interested."­
"Here you feel as if you're really contributing," says DiBiaso. "I know other assistants that aren't happy, but it is very enjoyable and rewarding to work under Dig!!er as an assistant coach at Notre Dame. Should the opportunity arise to be head coach. I would have to weigh it." 
With DiBiaso and McLaughlin around for a while under coach Phelps, the Irish basketball future indeed looks bright. "There are periods of coaching when there is no greater eleation," says DiBaiso, and as coaches here at Notre jDame they should know, since they've provided a good deal of those mowents themse,.l-'-v,es"-'----. 
ST. PAT•s DAY OPEN 10 A.M. FROM 10-4 
30( GREEN BEERS 
Also 
SANDWICHES ST. PAT'S PARTY HATS DON' r FORGET TUESDAY RECOVER FROM ST. PAT'S AT AMERICAN BANDSTAND NIGHT 
all mixed drinks:§()( pizzas: Sl.OO. 

asnwered for Keenan from the top of the key. As Off-Campus played for a final shot, Dan Wilks stole a pass and scored on a breakaway. Bedford Bruno answered for Off­Campus setting the stage for Doug Hiehle's20-foot jump shot with nine seconds to play. Allocco managed to get off a desperation shot at the buzzer, but it fell away giving 
Keenan the win. 
Despite seeing limited action because of foul trouble, Joe Montana againplayed a strong ga,me for Keenan. Greg Wilks and Mark Zettel also made significant contributions for the winners. 
Joe Montana led Keenan to a 59­49 win and the championship in the second game. Keenan broke out to an early lead and was up by seven at the half. In the second half, behind Frank Allocco, Bedford Bruno and Mike Bonfier, Off­Campus closed the gap to three points on several occasions. However each time, Montana would score to take Keenan out of danger. 
Allocco scored with a minute to play to again cut Keenan's lead to three points, but Keenan was able to re-build its lead as Off-Campus was forced to foul to get the ball. 
Montana led Keenan's attack with 17 points. Jim Donnelly added 14, Greg Wilks 12 and Mike Banks had 10 points for the victors. Frank Allocco paced Off-Campus with 21 points. Bedford Bruno and Mike Bonifer each hit for 11 points in the losing cause. 


RANDY MARTIN &THE MOONLIGHTER OASIS 
Startlna March 18 
Entertainment Tuesday • Sunday 
No Cover Charae 
~52890 U.S. 31 North
Vo ....... 

-'>ulh Bend, Indiana 46637 



CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Need ride to N.J. or NYC tor break. Call Greg, 1866. 
3 hitch hiking to Fla.• March 21. Need one more to travel in pairs. Tom. 8796. 
Need ride to Manhattan, KS, but Kansas City is good enough (break). Kevin, 1416. 
Ride Wanted: we gotta git outa dis place. Anybody going to or thru Fort Lauderdale and has room for 2 more sun bunnies call Candy, 6922, or Laura. 6927. 
HELP! Temporary (1 year) home sought tor 1 or 2 cats. We'll pay food and vet costs. We don't want to put them to sleep. Please call Steve, 232­9428. ­
Need ride for two at break to and from Ft. Lauderdale. Call John, 1067. 
Please! Need ride to DC tor spring break. Can leave any time. Share$. Call Mari, 234-6699. 
Need ride to Chicago (O'Hare), Wed. March 19" Call Maryann. 4867. 
I need a ride to Houston for spring break" Please call 1387. 
Need ride to Buffalo Friday, March 
21. Call Torn. 8489. 
Need ride to Shreveport, Louisiana or area Desperate! Call Tim, 8922. 
Need ride to Syracuse tor break. Call 84~4. 
Need ride to Shreveport. Louisiana; spring break. Call Gregory, 8866. 
Need 1 ide to Detroit spring break. Call 1132. 
Need ride to Miami tor break. Will pay. Call Frank, 234-6834. 
Ride needed to North Dakota or 
N.W. Minn" Leave 3-21, 3-22. Call . 3306. 
Need ride to New York City for spring break. Share driving and expenses. Call 289-3702. Jim. 
FOR SALE 
Corvus 411 slide rule calculator with memory. trig, and log tables. Call Jim, 289-6166. 
Dyn sonic eight-track stereo car tape player. Easily removable from car to prevent theft: Best offer. Call Dave, 234-6593. 
For sale cheap! Refrigerator, oven, storage cabinet, small tables, 2 living room chairs, small desk. All in excellent condition. Call Steve, 232­9428. 
Sale! 2 rectilinear xa jpeakers, orig. $400, now $225 for the pair. Call Tom Cordell at WNDU, 233-7111. 
1974 Camaro-auto, power, A-C, AM­FM, custom interior. 232-8600. 
1 Pioneer receiver and 2 Electro. Voice speakers. Call 1759 -270 NOTICES 
Open up the Senior Club and St. Pat's Day right with 5 cent beer at 1 
p.m. Monday. 
Married couple needed tor live-in housepJi!rents for foster home. Salary -write: P.E.P., Inc., 3012 S. Twickenham. South Bend, Ind., 46614. 
Can an insane whore get it on with a homosex .,1 composer? Find out by seeing "1 r. _Music Lovers" starring Richard Chamberlain and Glenda Jackson. Music by the London Symphonic Orchestra. Sunday, March 16, Engineering Auditorium, 7, 9, 11 pm. $1.00. 
Men and women with two years of college left! Want to invest six weeks this summer and assure yourself a second career as an Army Officer upon graduation? Earn approximately $500.00 this summer and gain self-confidence! No obligation. For information contact CPT Weimer at 283-6265 about Army ROTC Basic Camp. 
Can an insane Glenda Jackson find true love by squatting over an open grate? Find out Sunday, March 16, at 7, 9, and 11 pm at the Engineering Auditorium: "The Music Lovers" positively titilating. 
Senior Club is looking tor the best of its members to sample the best in Irish whiskey -$.50 all day Monday at Senior Club. 
Western Electronic 24 Hour TV Service. 1530 Western Ave.• 282-1955. 
Pie Face Unlimited. We will hit any student on campus. Guaranteed. Low rates. Send name and phone and victim's name and we will contact you. Joe Doe, 400 Pangborn. 
Typing experienced in term papers and dissertations. Reasonable, accurate. 232-5715. 
Accurate, Fast Typing. Northeast Section South Bend. Reasonable. Phone 232-0746. 
Furniture, clothes, antiques: GGarage Sale, 12 o'clock March 15 and 16, 815 Archer Ave., 2 blocks north of Sample on Lincoln Way East" 
Pittsburgh Club: last chance for sign-ups. Call TJ, 8414, or Mary, 4992. Buses leave 1 pm March 21. 
Taken by mistake from Heidelberg party Friday: a brown suede coat. Please return. Call Frank, 8231. 
Save money. Buy used books at Pandora's Books. New and used books. pipes, papers, magazines, and art prints. 
FOR RENT 
2 five-bedroom houses for rent for next school year. Excellent con­dition, furnished within 112 mile of campus. Call 233-2613. 
For rent: small. completely a~;>· pointed furnished apartment; a1r cond., shower, tub. Well suited for one graduate student. Has been so occupied for the last 10 years; $60.00 per month. utilities paid. Call 232· $337 o.r 234-8789 for appointment. 
Dil1on. _J.•• • : ... , ·, 'j;._ ,_·, ·.:•• , • . _., ·~ •. •)•) •Will be•'Va<:ant Apri'l 1;" ' • • 

Four student houses available Sept. '75. Groups of 3, 4, & 5. Call 287-7818. mornings before 9:30 or evenings. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: bag of acrylic paints and brushes. Please call 234-6699. 
Lost: blue coil N D notebook with psych notes and research paper inside. Needed desperately. Call277­0057. 
Lost: ladies' wristwatch with narrow silver band. Reward. 8135. 
Lost: silver cross at A.C. C. Monday night, Fisher-Holy Cross hockey game. Reward. 3010 evenings. 
Lost: 1 pr. glasses, silver frames, blue case, initials KLW, near Engineering Aud. Call 1255. 
PERSONALS 

The Nile Kite Flying society wishes to give Bill Oberhardt and his degree a hearty thanks for his courageous efforts in getting Rocket Man up in the sky. The Society otters Terry Cavanaugh just a plain thanks for allowing the Society to warm its tails. We also appreciate his half­hearted search for dope. Notice: the NKFS shall return. 3-21. 
Hoosier Hysteria is coming! For details, listen to WSND. 640 radio. 
Tom, Hector, Dave, Zach, Fuller, F itz, Scotty, Chapman Huevon, Horgan. Paul. Tony. Gresser, Senger: Thanks tor the lurks. wine, and memories. 
Love and kisses, Legs 
Annie & Steve: Happy 21st's. Welcome to the world of legality. 
All of us 
To Section 7A Flanner: Tomorrow is Creamer's birthday. So wish him a Happy Birthday while you throw him in the shower for me. 
His All-Night Typist 
P.S. Or how about Farrell's, John? 
Happy Hour at Kubiak's, Fri., March 14, 3:30-6:30pm. Sponsored by Grace Hall. 
To the Rowdy Boy in Biology: What's your problem? from the Rowdy Girls 
A lad in St. Ed's once pined, For an exciting new way to unwind. So he took up knitting, A scarf without quitting, But to unravel it now he's declined. 
Tee & Hee 
Mariar-Lisar, Myrna says. "You can't make love on March 14th, unless it's your birth­day." Happy 19th B-day. 
Love. Myrna's friends 
P.S. No babies!! 
Lisa, Thanks Beautiful! Had the best time ever. See you soon. 
Love, C.J. 
Diane, Ginger, B-P Three: Due to your style and originality you are the first winners of the G.H. award. 
For.mal. Night. Phoners," The Judges 
• 
• 
... 

--------------------------~~-~-~--~-­
12 the observer 
Irish cagers begin tourney try tomorrow 

DICK DIBIASO Cleft) and Frank Mclaughlin (right) will get a chance to show just what they have 
done when the Irish meet Kansas In first round NCAA action tomorrow. 
Di Biaso, Mclaughlin-vital parts in the total concept 
by Hill Brink the country. Digger Phelps, these two young
But Dick DiBiaso and Frank
They don'l. get interviewed on r men are secure in the knowledgenational TV very often, or speak at McLaugh m. the two assistant that their role as assistants is
basketball coaches at the 
many luncheons or write books. University of Notre Dame don't essential to the overall program. They don't even have flashy need those things to be a vital part "Digger has done a great job in war1robes or mcknames tha_t rn~g of the Irish basketball program. selling all the members of the team a bell m every basketball mmd m Despite the spotlight on head coach that they are a vital cog in the 
Greg Corgan~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;;;:;:::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:: ~~;ra:a-~e~a~so~~B~!~~:T~!: i: 
team effort. I feel l'm a part of the total team concept." "We look at the success of our

The Irish Eye 
program and we all know we had a part to play in it," adds McLaughlin. "We've been to three :========:===============================;=================================·=;=·=;=;=;=·T ournament picks post-season tournaments in a row and that speaks well of the whole NCAA basketball tournaments are as unpredictable as ACC basketball program. The limelight isn't 
tournaments. That either says something for the NCAA and the ACC or important, the resluts are." 
nothing for either. Since the trio of Phelps, DiBiaso Nonetheless, unpredictability usually translates into excitement. With and McLaughlin arrived in South 32 teams in the tourney this year even the characteristically dull first Bend in 1971 to take charge of round contests will be, at least, interesting. And matchups like Notre Dame basketball the results Marquette-Kentucky, Notre Dame-Kansas and Arizona State-Alabama have not been few or unnoticable. may be the most hair-raising of the entire tournament. After struggling through a 6-20 For the first round, the Irish Eye's predictions: opening season, they turned the team around for an 18-12 mark in
East at Penn 
1973-74, bringing them one second 

Syracuse over LaSalle: Could be tough for the Orangemen since they 
away from the NIT championship. 

will be playing at LaSalle's home court in Philadelphia, but Syracu~e 
Last year they chalked up a 26-3 

has been strangely decent all year. Brink: Syracuse 
record and a spot in the NCAA 

Kansas State Over Penn: A lot of people are picking Penn to make it to 
tournament, an they repeated this 

the final four, but outside the Southwest Conference and the Big Sky, Ivy 
year by earning an 18-8 season 

League basketball is the worst. Brink: Penn 
record. 

at Charlotte Despite this impressive list of Furman over H.C.: Furman is a legitimate contender while the accomplishments, both assistant Eagles snuck into the tourney. Brink: Furman. coaches deny that Digger and :\orth Carolina over New Mexico State: It can almost be said the worst themselves have created a new is behind the Tar Heels--they're done with the ACC tournament. Brink: basketball tradition here in the last NC several years. They point out a 1\lideast strong basketball prvgram in the 
at Alabama past and attribute its recent :\1artJUette ovt>r Kt>ntucky: The Warriors got a break wher. Alabama buildup to more television 
ex­lost and Kentucky came in to play at Tuscaloosa. AI McGuire will make posure. The competitiveness of the most of it. Brink: Marquette 
their schedule, they feel, gives 

( ;t•orgetown over Central Michigan: Maybe. Brink: Georgetown them more attention in that they are often involved in one of the big 
at KPntucky 
games in the country.

Indiana ovrr l'TEP: The Hoosiers are number one and can beat this 
Both DiBiaso and McLaughlin

Texas team without Scott May. IU's just lucky this is a basketball 
accepted invitations from Phelps

tournament and not a football playoff. Brink: Indiana 
to join him here at Notre Dame,

Or!'gon Statt> ovt>r Middle Tennessee: Oregon State is the second place 
DiBiaso leaving his assistant

Pac-8 team and most likely even the fifth place Pac-8 team could beat 
coaching position at the University 

Middle Tennessee. Brink: Middle Tennessee of Virginia and McLaughlin switching from assistant to 
at Oral Roberts 
Digger at Fordham to assistant to 

'otrl' I>ami' ovt>r Kansas: The Irish did it once and they're better now, Digger at ND. Brink: Notre Dame 
McLaughlin had been a For­

l.ouisvillr over Rutgers: When Denny Crum 's boys decide they want to 
dham man a good part of his life,

play, they're unbeatable. Brink: Louisville 
graduating from Fordham Prep in 

.. 
at Texas Tech 1965 while earning all-city honors' ~aryland ovrr Creighton: Nolo contendere. Brink: Maryland then moving on to Fordham ('incinnati over Texas A&M: SWC basketball is worse than Ivy University, where he played from League, enough so that even Cincinnati can win this one. Brink: Cin-1966 to 1969. He passed up an op­
portunity to play pro ball for the

cinnati 
New York Knicks because at that

Wt•st 
time he was in the national guard, 

at Arizona State 
and would have missed training

Arizona State over Alabama: The Crimson Tide blew it losing to 
camp and part of the season. He

Auburn. Lionel "Train" Hollins will be comfortable enough in his home 
played semi-pro ball for a while

arean at Tempe to score 50. Brink: Alabama 
but didn't like it and moved to Holy

1\t.>vada-Las Vegas ovrr San Diego: It looks that way. Brink: N-LV 
Cross as an assistant. In 1970 he 

at Washington State 
returned to Fordham as Digger'sl'CLA ovt>r Michigan: Should be a high-spirited affair, but the Bruins assistant before he followed his
.. 
are too talented for this midwest team. Brink: UCLA boss and close friend to Notre l'tah State over Montana: Utah State could be one of the surprise Dame. teams of the tournament. Brink: Utah State (continued on page 11) 
by Greg Corgan Sports Editor 
"Rematch", a more sporting term for "getting even," takes on added 
significance when this time the loser faces elimination from the NCAA 
tournament. And when Notre Dame and Kansas meet tomorrow at Oral 
Roberts in the first round of the National Collegiate Athletic Association 
tourney, the team on the short end of the scoreboard will experience just 
that--and a long trip home. 
So, for the KU Jayhawks, who lost to the Irish 75-59 at Notre Dame back 
on Dec. 9, "rematch" means "revenge". For the Irish it means proving 
themselves all over again, and for both teams it means "do or die." 
But Saturday's 9:10p.m. contest will match one revamped, one 
rejuvenated, and two much better ball clubs. "You can forget that 
gamein December," said Digger Phelps. "We're a much improved team 
sincethen, but so is Kansas." 
Not only that. The starting Irish lineup has since been redesigned. 
Tomorrow Phelps will start his "zone"team which means Dave Batton, 
Toby Knight and Jeff Carpenter along with Adrian Dantley and Bill 
Paterno will be the first five. That has been the lineup since the Fordham 
game three weeks ago. On top of that, Notre Dame finished the last half 
of its season 11-2. 

If the Irish claim improvement, so do the Jayhawks. "I'm encouraged 
by our overall play in the last two weeks," says Kansas Head Coach Ted 
Owens. "I think we have begun to play very well of late." 
"Of late" covers a long period of time. Since Dec. 23, when they lost to 
Kentucky, the Jayhawks have been 15-3 to finish their season 19-7 and win 
the Big Eight championship. Among its seven losses, Kansas dropped a 
74-70 overtime contest to number one ranked Indiana. 
"Kansas has improved from last time," adds ND assistant Frank 
McLaughlin. "The game here was much closer than people realized. We 
forced them out of their zone, we were able to run and control the board­
s." 

"We're looking forward to playing Notre Dame again," counters 
Owens. "I think we have made good progress in the areas where they 
hurt us the most the first game, primarily rebounding andhandling 
pressure defense." 

The Jayhawks will sport the same starting five as last time with the 
ex~eption of Roger Morningstar who will be replaced by freshman guard 
Clint Johnson. Donnie Von Moore and Norman Cook, a pair of 6-9 
sophomores will man the wings with 6-10 Rick Suttle, Kansas' leading 
scorer (14.5) at the pivot. Dale Greenlee, a 6-3 senior will join Johnson at 
guard. 

Danny Knight (8.3) and Morningstar (11.3) are quick off the bench, 
however, and give Owens the depth he feels essential. "The consistent 
trait of this team is that there always seems to be someone there to pick 
us up. If one is having a bad game we have almost always had another 
come off the bench to give us the needed spark." · 
The Irish are deep themselves-with seniors Peter Crotty and Dwight 
rJay on the bench. Ray Martin and Duck Williams should also see action 
especially if the Irish press. Martin is a sophomore and Williams a fresh­
man. Along with Dantley, Knight and Paterno, who are also sophomores, 
and Batton and Carpenter, two more freshmen, Phelps will rely on a 
young team. 

"If we hadn't played the difficult calibre schedule there would be no 
way we'd be able to start three sophomores and two freshmen," says 
Digger. "But these guys all know what pressure is. We've been in tight .situations all year fighting for a tournament berth." 
Still, the Irish, who finished 18-8 secured that berth, the 12th time Notre 
Dame has been in the NCAA tournament. Only Kentucky and UCLA have 
been to the tourney more. 

Should Notre Dame beat the Jayhawks in the first round tomorrow 
night in Tulsa, it will face the winner of the Maryland-Creighton game on 
March 20 in Las Cruces, New Mexico. 
Bengal's end in a flurry of fights 
by Rich Odioso over Dan Ruettiger. The shorter 

Two of the three former Hudy earned special praise from 
champions were among the win­McGuire after taking a hail of 
ners as the 44th Bengal Bouts punishing punches without being
crowned twelve titleholders last fazed. McGuire experienced
night before a record crowd. And conditioning problems last year 
most of that crowd thought the hut that was a thing of the past as 
third. C'het Zawalich, was a winner he fought three fast-paced rounds 
also. To the vocal displeasure of and yet "I didn't get tired. I was 
many fans, Senior Mike McGarry really psyched." 
was a unanimous choice of the The only knockdown of thejudges in the 180-pound bout evening was scored by Mattdespite giving up ring position Wuellner who decked .John Ricottathroughout. 
Pnroute to the 165 title. WuellnerBut among those who sided with used his powerful left hand muchthe judges was Zawalich, who more sparingly than in previousafte'rwards praised McGarry for 

fights preferring quality over

conducting ''a perfect fight. He did quantity. Although there were noexactly what he had to. I knew knockdowns or even blood in thewhat I had to do but I just didnt't match. the 175 shootout betweenhaveenoughleH." Zawalich threw Lou Bulte and Thad Naquin wasmost of the punches in the first the most frenzied of the evening.
two rounds but McGarry parried The fighters received a standingsuccessfully. McGarry then came ovation for their never-say-dieout to score with a fast third round efforts as Bulte gained aflurry before returning to his unanimous decision. Naquindefensive style. The winner was credited Bulte saying, "He kept
dated afterward, ''Chet's a 
coming right in." Bulte said hishelluva fighter. It's a thrill to win success was due to "keepingwhat I thought was the toughest control. I watched control.

class." 
watched his right, (which hadPhil Harbert at 150 and Mike scored two previous KO's l circledMcGuire at 190 managed to win to my right away from it and hadtheir second titles. Harbert gained good luck with my jab."'

a unanimous decision over Boxing Only two boxen: were badlyClub President Jim Clune in a bloodied, one ;; winner and one amatch so close that Phil said af­loser. St·wln· 1lfll'e Reyna foughtterward, "I wish they could have off a badly ':ireding nose to edgecalled it a tie." Clune appeared ILl Bill Kiskowski in a split decision atbe carrying the fight at the end but 135. Both fighters contested with as he put it, "I started my rally more gusto than skill, firingjust too late." 
roundhouses throughout. TheMcGuire looked impressive in 

(continued on page JO)

hammermg out a unanimous win 




