• ' • • • " -• • • • • ·' • • • • • ., .. .. ' .. ""r • • • • • • • • .,. .,. '.·•, •• .... ' • • • • • ~ .. • • • • ... .... " " .. ' ' ' • • ' ' 
....::, 


server 

university of notre dame -st. mary's college
Vol. IX, No. 121 Thursday, April 24, 1975 
To earlier letter and petition 
Byrne. students receive President's response 
the third paragraph of the letter was the was good. I'm glad he made note of it, McGinty, Richard Morton, Elton Johnson,by Ken Girouard most interesting. because its the sort of thing people in Michael Schnaus, Mary Beckman, TomNews Editor 
"I thought that the part of the third academia like to hear," he said. Birsic, Mark Nishan, Stan Cardenas, Wendy paragraph when he talked ab?ut the we~ding Other students who signed the Byrne Duffy, Sue Caranci, Tom Fitzgerald and 
Student Body President Ed Byrne . of academic ideals and practical expenence letter were Pat McLaughlin, Br:ian , Augie Grace. yesterdayannouncedthathehadreceiveda ~~~~~~~;;~~;;~~~;;~~==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~::~F====================================
letter from President Gerald Ford. The letter is in response to a letter which Byrne sent to the White House on April 1, con­cerning the President's visit to Notre Dame. 
According to Byrne, the purpose of his letter was to inform the President how some members of the Notre Dame community felt about certain governmental policies and activities. 
"I was extremely disappointed for the students because they didn't get the chance to say if they disagreed or eve!l agreed w~th him during his visit to campus," Byrne sa1d. 
As a result, he and a few other members of student government drafted a letter voicing some of the attitudes and opinions that surfaced during Ford's visits. 
"I read through the letters in the Obst>rvt>r and attempted to put together a letter that would· reflect the opinions that a majority of the students would stand behind," Byrne stated. 
He said that he did not intend the letter to 
be taken as a slap at the President, but 
rather as a means of expressing the con­
cerns of the Notre Dame community. 
Byrne said that the letter was drawn up with the advice of members of the Student Affairs Office and was then forwarded to Father James T. Burchaell, university provost.
"I took the letter to Father Burtchaell 
and, after reading it, he said he liked the 
tone. He said that he could help make sure 
that the letter got to the President's desk," 
Byrne said. 
According to Byrne, Burtchaell then sent the letter, along with a letter of his own, to Frank Ursomarso, a member of the White 
House Advance Office. 
Part of Burtchaell's letter read: "The 
President had, I thought, good opportunities 
to speak his mind to the campus and to the 
nation while here, and this is the attempt of 
our Student Body President and a few 
colleagues to create an exchange by 
returning their own remarks to the 
President. I hope that he will take them in 
good stead." 
Byrne said that he was pleased with the 
letter of response from Ford. He felt that 
T'L B 1 tt
~I.e yrne e er 

Dear Mr. President: On Monday, March 17, St. Patrick's Day, you were a guest of the community of Notre Dame. On that date a doctorate of laws was bestowed on you and you met briefly with student and faculty representatives of the University. Formal greetings were ex­changed but there was little or no op­portunity for a substantive discussion to take place. 
We would like to express our concerns in this letter, the only avenue of com­munication made available for comment. 
We appreciate your attempt to steer clear of major political issues in your talk but we believe that there is no such thing as a "non­political" presidential address. As we also feel that every man has a right to be heard we respectfully suggest that during your next visit to Academia your advance people take particular care to provide you with an opportunity to listen. 
In your address you praised Notre Dame 
as a campus of serious moral concern because of our rejection of the "new isolationism." We would like to clarifythese moral concerns as they seem to conflict with present government policies. As believers in an interdependent world we condemn: The sale of arms to both sides of the Arab-Israeli conflict, regardless of its stimulative effect on our economy; con­tinued disproportionate aid to Southeast Asia--specifically increased aid to Cam­bodia now and in the future; Central In­telligence Agency activities. As regards the CIA we are extremely concerned about their domestic surveillance and their alleged complicity in assasination attempts over­seas and quite possible in the United States as well. We also disapprove of the mem­bership on your select committee and your statement at the time of the revelations made concerning the intervention in Chile 

ND Philosophy professor dies 
Rev. Jerome M. Boyle, C.S.C., a professor of philosophy at the University of N~tre Dame, died in St. Joseph's Hosp1tal after suffering a heart attack two days prior. A 1935 graduate of the University, he served as a teacher and prefect at Notre Dame from 1945 to 1951, and from 1965 to the present day. 
Father Boyle was born September 12, 1911, in Gary, Ind., and entered the Holy Cross Community August 15, 1940. He made his final profession September 15, 1944, and was ordained at Notre Dame June 10, 1945. In addition to his undergraduate degree in 1935, he received a master's degree at Notre Dame in 1936 and a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Louvain in 1950. 
From 1951 to 1965, Father Boyle served as a professor at the University of Portland where he was chairman of the Philosophy Department and dean of Arts and Letters. 
Friends may call in the Lady Chapel of Sacred Heart Church after 3:30 p.m., Thursday, where a wakt service is scheduled for 7:30p.m. The funeral Mass will be at 3:30p.m. Friday in Sacred Heart Church anq burial will be in the CommunityCemetery. 

THOUGH tHE warm weather has prevented many students from studying, finals faithfully force others to the Library. (Photo by Bob Tracey) 
that we will "do it again if necessary." Additionally, if we cannot "rule out the possibility"of waging war in the Middle East for necessary oil, why can't India use the same "survival" logic to justify use of her atomic weaponry? 
We were pleased by the sentiments you expressed for problems in the Third and especially the Fourth World, but we withhold final congratulations .until these concerns are manifested in positive action. It is appreciated that you agreed to free more than the two million tons of grain recommended to you by "the experts" but, as of this date, only 20 percent has been freed for distributiou. 
our own economy is facing a serious criSis 
and may be approaching a turning point. 
For the Free Market System to allocate 
resources equitably, competition must 
exist. The Anti-Trust Division of the Justice 
Department must be staffed adequately so 
that the government prosecuters can match 
the legal counsel available to the Drivate 
and public corporations they hope to 
challenge. We also fearthat your present 
tax rebate plan <and Congress's plan for 
that matter) will do more for the wealthy 
than for those who need it most. 
This peition is intended to be our first trip 
back across the bridge you have built. Wei 
were encouraged bywhat you said here but 
we are very concerned that there be con-, 
crete results from your visit. 

Several morally concerned students tried 
to point this out to you on St. Patrick's Day
by walking out bft:ause they felt you should 
not be awarded an honorary degree solely 
on the basis of your good intentions. We 
hope that the conferral of the degree will 
Pncourage your efforts to bring the 
humanitarian goals outlined in your address 
to fruition. The ideals we develop in the 
dassroom when wedded to the practical 

The Ford· response 
Dear Mr. Byrne: 
I want to thank you for your thoughtful message to me on behalf of the Student Government of Notre Dame University. I was pleased to have had the opportunity to visit your fine campus and I found the day as productive as it was enjoyable. However, I agree that such a brief visit did not allow for the extended discussions I would have liked to have had with you and other 
students. 
I appreciate very much the spirit in which your letter was written and you may be sure I will continue to give your suggestions careful consideration. 
As you note, ideals developed in the academic community and temperedthrough daily, practical experience can indeed properly become goals toward which an individual, and a nation, directs its best efforts. This is, I bel~ve, themeaningof our American ethic, which in recognizing a person's imperfection and his inevitable failings, nevertheless holds forth the ideal and measures him by the depth of his commitment as well as the limits of his 
success. 
As a nation of free and imperfect people, America may never resolve all of its problems-not to mention the problems of the world. But it is essential that we preserve our ideals and our moral com­mitment that each generation do its small but vital part to improve life for our own citizens and to promote a world in which all can live in dignity and peace. 
I remain firm in my own determination to deal honestly and openly with the American people and to promote their well-being and 

Pxperience you possess should enable each . the cause of world peace. My effectiveness of us to do our jobs better. We believe that does, however, depend largely on the on­lht> first steps towards a continuing dialogue derstanding and cooperation I am able to should serve to clarify positions and we develop from citizens such as you. have tried to express ours here. I am most grateful for your own deep 
concern and for the goodwill reflected in your views. Please convey to the other Sincerely in Notre Dame, signatories my sincere appreciation as well. 
Edward R. Byrne Sincerely,Student Body President 
Gerald R. Ford 

Campuses face rape problems 
by Kathy Skiba Staff Reporter 

A survey of universities throughout the Midwest indicates that on most campuses the probem of physical safety is of real concern. and various measures are taken to t•ase that concern. 
1\larquPtte 

The subject of rape is presently an ac­tive topic at Marquette University, ac­cording to Peg Anthony, assistant dean of students. Anthony described the down­town Milwaukee. Wisconsin campus of II,000 students as, "an urban campus on the t>dge of a high crime district." 
She called Marquette's approach to the 
problem "proactive," and 
stated "We are concerned about 
b
the problem of physical safety a 
irrespective of numbers. That is, if· one person is raped, it's important." 
AI Marquette. the problem of physical safety has been expanded from rape to other physical assaults, sexual and non­sexual. 
A major effort instituted at Marquette this year is the Women's Physical Safety Task Force. A task force survey revealed that 7 out of 10 students had been assaulted to a verying degree while at Marquette. The survey questioned all assaults, ranging from verbal harassment to actual rape. 
"The task force will soon make 
recommendations to the university," 
noted Anthony. "Possible recom· 
mendations include improved lighting, a 
women's escort service, an emergency whereby women are given whistles to be sounded in the t>vent of danger." 
As a deterrant to physical assaults, 1\larquette presently educates students in ·the area of self-defense through clinics as 
well as litera lure 
Indiana l'niversity Virginia Rogers, associate dean of students at Indiana llniversitv in Bloomington. said physical safety is .:not a major problem of great proportion at Indiana University. though each case is givt>n serious concern." She described the campus of 30,000 young people as "an attractive target for sex assaulters." and noted "It is often the carPlessness and provocativeness of the students responsible for the problem." 
·· •lght


server ns 
Indiana University employs various m~>ans to prevent assaults on ca':"pus, including: a volunteer escort serv1ce, a ride st>rvice provided by the security force. and an emt>rgency phone system. 
Hogers called George Huntington, director of safety, "one of the state's top security experts in the area of sexual assaults." 
She also cited the roles of women's groups on campus, which lend support to dctims. and the student newspaper, The 
, Indiana llaily Student, which provides good coverage of physical assaults. 
Rogers stressed importance of t•ducating women not to walk alone or on an obscure art or campus and informing students of the dangers of hitchhiking," a 

phone system, and the 'shistle system,' . <continut"d on pagt> 1oi 
1 
.' 

2 
the observer 
world briefs 

.. MOSCOW (UPI) • Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko Wednesday reaffirmed a Soviet pledge to ensure the right of independent existence of all Middle Eastern states, In­cluding Israel, as a basis for ! peace talks In Geneva. . . Gromyko made the remark In a Kremlin dinner speeech honoring Syrian Foreign Minister Hallm Jhaddam, who arrived In the soviet capital earlier In the day. 
.. RIYADH, Saudi Arablai (UPI) -Their diplomatic rift patched up, Egypt and Syria agreed Wednesday to set up a high-level committee to unify their war and peace strategy ; against Israel. 
.. NEW DELHI (UPil. India's' parliament Wednesday took the· first official step toward abolishing the 344-year-old monarchy in Sikkim and In­corporating the tiny Himalayan kingdom as a full-fledged In­dian state. Only the Com­munists objected. 
.. NEW ORLEANS (UPI) • President Ford reads newspapers throughout his 18­hour workday, Press Secretary Ron Nessen said Wednesday. 
. .NAPLES, Italy (UPI) • The "drop your pants" bandits have struck again . . . Police said five masked men, armed with pistols and a sawed­off shotgun burst Into the F~trml social club Wednesday and told the 12 men present to "Drop , your pants. This is a robbery." 
. . LOS ANGELES (UPI) • 
Former President Richard M. 
Nixon, In a brief "interview" with the editor of a college newspaper, has said his doctors have told him he is 'about 75 to 80 per cent recovered" from surgery and complications growing out of his phlebitic condition. 
an campus today 

4:00 
p.m.--seminar, "non-linear conductants In liquid alkanes, by dr. k. paul funagashl, con­ference rm radiation lab. 

4:00 
p.m.--lecture, "signal processing time and age," by donald kline, rm. 119, haggar hall. 


4:30 p.m.--seminar, "recent developments In the chemistry of the lower boron hydldes," by prof. sheldon shore, rm. 123 nieuwland sci. 
5:00 p.m.--vespers, evensong, log chapel. 
7,9,& II p.m.--film, "casablanca", $1, eng. aud. 
7:30 p.m.--lecture, "william butler yeats", by Iinnea vacca, regina aud. 
8:00 
p.m.--concert, america, ace. 

8:00 
p.m.--recital, corinne blrskovltch, little theater, smc. 


LOOKING FOR ... 
• t • • -• • : "I' ~ \ 1 .. " ,. .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ' t • r • " • • • • t I\' •,. • \ I 

',
.' 
' . . ».) . • . ~ .. \ .. ·, 
Thunday-, 'AP,.II'24; 1975" 

Heart Club plans benefit semi-formal dance Friday 
The Notre Dame Heart Club and Breen-Phillips Hall are sponsoring a semi-formal Benefit Dance, Friday, April 25, in Stepan Center with music provided by Talisman . All donations of $5.00 per couple benefit the Heart Fund of St. Joseph County. To date the Notre Dame Heart Club has raised a total of $673.68. 
Heart disease is the nation's number one killer. It is respon­sible for more deaths than all other 
On Saturday 
causes combined. Last year there were 2,4Z7 deaths in St. Joseph County, 1,225 of which were due to Heart Disease. 
The theme is "Put a Little Love in Your Heart." Tickets will be sold in the dining halls and at the door. Refreshments will be provided. If there are any questions contact Jim Meehan <chairman) at 1081, rm 521 Flanner or Cathy Falkenberg at 1253, rm. 120 Breen-Phillips. 
Seniors plan picnic 
The St. Mary's College Senior Class will sponsor a senior picnic Saturday afternoon from 2 to 7 on lhe field in front of the cafeteria. 
All  seniors  from  the  ND-SMC  
community  are  invited  and  
proceeds  will  go  to  the SMC  
graduation fund.  

According to Senior Class President Carol Collins, seniors with ID's, showing them to be 21 years-old can have all the beer they can drink for $2.00. Hot dogs 
Senior dies May bicycle 
Aline Marie FitzGerald, 21, a senior math and philosophy major, died yesterday morning in St. Joseph County Hospital after being hospitalized since a bicycle ac­cident May 30, 1974 in Cleveland. 
wili be sold for 25 cents. 
Collins said she hopes the picnic will raise about $500 to be used in financing a cocktail party forSMC seniors, family and friends on May 16, the night before graduation.
"This picnic v:;" ·,e at lea.o:;t as good as the onf .1d last fall," Collins stated. 
In case ul rain, the picnic will be moved inside of Regina Hall. Music for the picnic will be provided by Talisman. 
as result of accident 
Miss FitzGerald lived in South Bend all her life. Her father, Dr. John J. FitzGerald is Assistant Vice President for Advanced Studies at Notre Dame. 
Services will be at 10 a.m. Friday at Sacred Heart Church . 
State Dept Urged Fr. Kevin Tripp, ~ cousin, of New 
• Bedford, Mass., w1ll say the Mass. Burial will be in Cedar Grove
Thieu resignation Cem~tery. 
CHICAGO !UPI) _ The State 
Department worked over the last two weeks to persuade former South Vietnamese President Nguyen Van Thieu to resign in order to ward off an imminent military coup, the Chicago Tribune said Wednesday. 
In a Saigon-datelined story, the newspaper quoted Rep. Nugyen Van Cu, a Vietnamese air force officer and personal assistant to former Premier Nguyen Cao Ky, as saying: 
"The American embassy knew there would have been a military coup if Thieu had not resigned, ~o it played the role as a mediator. 
Cu said U.S. Ambassador Graham Martin visited Ky's residence at Tan Son Nhut Air Base near Saigon two weeks ago and pleaded with Ky to help prevent a military coup, the Tribune said. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuoents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Elox' Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Ind. 
46556. 
HOBBY & CRAFT SUPPLIES? 
• 
ENGINEERING PROJECTS 

• 
ARKIE & ART ASSIGNMENTS *MODEL TRAINS, CARS & PLANES 


XACTO, DRE MEL, ROCKETS, LIONEL & N GAlJGE FULL UNE OF PLASTIC KITS & BALSA WOOD 
HOURS: MWF 9:30-7:30 T Th S 9:30 -5:30 

_343 LINCOLNWA Y WEST ~ 
SOUTH BEND 

BLOCKS WEST OF LASALLF.I 
PHONE 287..0180 

f 


Friends may call from 2 to 5 and 7 to 9 p.m. Thursday in the Hickey 

LAST NIGHT! SHOW I.D. AND GET IN FOR 1.00 

• • • • ~ r t o • f" • ' • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
THE BIKE RACK 
TUNE-UP NOW FOR SPRING PARTS & SERVICE ON ALL AM'!RICAN AND 
FOREIGN-MADE BIKES 

LOCATED ONE BLOCK EAST OF THE DISTILLERY ON RD. 23 IN GREENWOOD SHOPPING CTR 
OPEN 9:30-6:30 DAILY MONDAY-SATURDAY 277-1391 

N 0 W APPEARING 
SUPER CIRKUS 
AND SOUTH SHORE 





~/,u/a~
NO COVER CHARGE TUES·WED-THURS 

on U.S. 31 NhrMn lliles. So. B•d-Fr• l'artinc-683-4350. 

YJ~R~ 
$1.00 OFF ON ALL AMERICA ALBUMS THIS WEEK LISTEN TO... "HE ALICE COOPER WEEKEND COMI JG UP ON W.R.B.R. 
PLUS 'PipE<;, 'PAp FA.':> TApE::S 
Coni~ 

919-B COLLEGE SQUARE MISHAWAKA, INDIANA ·255-0266 
''THE PAN'' DEEP DISH PIZZA 
· Thursday; April 24, 1975 the obs~rver_ 
To comply with Ammendment I available April 18-21 
Academic records opened11 QIJ~~~~~d~r;;;~.N RAGs 
documents, and other materials compiled before complying with
by Ken Bradford directly related to a student which · the terms of the act. The final performed by William CernyCopy Editor are maintained by a school or one guidelines, which were supposed to 
of its agents." be released by March, have not chairman NO Music Dept.
Despite the absence of a formal The joint statement also gave an yet been forwarded to the schools,
written policy, Notre Dame explanation of the purpose of the according to Faccenda. 
students are being allowed access act: 'the purpose of the act is two-. Faccenda noted that the drafting proceeds to The Music to their "educational records," fold -to assure parents of students, of the official University policy will according to Dr. Philip Faccenda, and student themselves if they are be dependent oil the arrival of the Scholarship Fund 
University general counsel. over the age of 18 or attending an revised guidelines. "W've been Faccenda said Tuesday that the institution of post-secondary waiting for the guidelines since .the on sale at the Huddle
current procedure is that students education, access to their beginning of April," he observed. wishing to check information in education records and to protect "We thought we would have them in residence hallsUniversity files must apply such individuals' rights to privacy by now." through the Counsel's Office. He by limiting the transferability of Faccenda said he has hesitated in 248 O'Shag for $4noted that only three or four their records without their con­to draft official rules because the 
students have used the privilege so sent." far. The act allows for four ex­final when
guidelines, released, **************** *************"*'«
may be decidedlydifferentfrom the * «
The new procedure has been ceptions of records which need not instituted in order to comply with be made available to the school 
~~r~ea~~i~~i1~~.i~~:·fi~~ ~~~:lr~:! a BROTHER ~ 
the amendments to the Family personnel, law enforcement 1t Will save him from domg the * il
Educational Rights and Privacy records, student employment Act of 1974, which was scheduled to records and medical or psychiatric sameworktwice. il"It makes sense to wait, as long * FREEDOM il go into effect on January 1, 1975. records. 
as we are not depriving anybody of * ilEnforcement of the act was In addition, the private financial their rights," accenda stated. * ildelayed until the Department of records of the student's parents
Health , Education and Welfare and all private letters of recom­"until we draw up a final policy, * APPEARING AT • 
we will continue to handle in-* ilcould draw up final guidelines for mendation filed before January 1, dividual requests on a case-to-case ~ « 
universities and other schools to 1975, are also shielded from basis." ..,.. « use in implementing the policy. student access. All letters of 
All files which have customarily :
The act gives the student the recommendation filed after that been open to students, such as the * THE REGAL LOuNGE ;"?'
right inspect his educationrecords date will be available to students 
files of college transcripts, have * +:and challenge any information unless the student signs a "waiver remained open to students, Fac-* 11 21 W, 8th St. «
which is incorrect. The act also of access" form, which would cenda noted, while the Counsel has * +:forbids the schools from for­assure the person recommending also honored the lawful requests of : M /SHA WAKA +:
warding information about the student that the letter will not students for information normally * :
students to interested agencies or be made available to the student. denied them. institutions with the consent of the The department of Health, David Kil, assistant registrar,~ FRIDAY & SATURDAY :
student. Education and Welfare released noted that the registrar has * +:According to the joint statement guidelines for the implementation always made files available to * +:
in explanation of the "Buckley -Bell ofthe act on Jan. 6, 1975 but an· students or institutions with * APRIL 25 & 26 +:Ammendment," education records nounced that schools could wait for 
propoer authorization of th"e * +: are defined as "records, files, the final, revised guidelines to be student or with a court subpoena. * +: 
Tht,proce~urefoh~studf.e nts~ishtinhg ~ 9:00 P.M. to 1:30 A.M. : 
1 e +:
Ford lists nations goals to examme IS 1 m e * 
registrar's office is that the * +: student must present his iden-* NO COVER CHARGE I «
tification card to the registrar. * • +:
during.speech at Tulane 
Included in the registrar files are *************************************•
college transcripts, which contain
' 

NEW ORLEANS <UPI) their country, Ford listed items on only composite grade reports,President Ford told America the agenda for the third century of 
percentile ranking in the class, the Wednesday it can "regain the the nation: student's college average and the 
SMC Social Commission 
sense of pride that existed before --Jobs for all who want to work listing of honors , such as dean's Vietnam," and said now that the and economic opportunity for list standing. war is over the nation's third those who want to achieve. Faccenda stated that the act will 
presents
century must include such goals as --National "self sufficiency in encourage schools to keep only
full employment, a richer life, and energy" by 1985. necessary information on students. freedom from hunger and disease. --A world in which consuming He added that keeping un­and producing nations achieve a
"Today America can again necessary information causes a regain the sense of pride that drain on manpower, space and
working balance and in which all existed before Vietnam. But it time in University offices anyway.
humlans on earth are free from cannot be achieved by refighting a Notre Dame has been much
hunger and disease. 


Dr. Zhivago
·-Technology that enriches life while preserving our natural en­
war that is finished--as far as more reasonable in keeping only America is concerned," Ford said minimal information about in a speech for delivery to a Tulane students, Faccenda observed. He
vironment. University student assembly. also said the Buckley amendment
--Peaceful exploration of the 
Carroll Hall

"The time has come to look oceans and space. will not greatly affect the forward to an agenda for the distribution of information to
--A cure for cancer. future, to unity, to binding up the students at Notre Dame.
--To speed the administration of 
6 & 9:30pm
equal justice and make good
nation's wounds and restoring it to "The University has always 


Madeleva

citizens out of convicted criminals.
health and optimistic self­been open to its students within the 
--Composing the great American
confidence... ", Ford said. bounds of professional respec­"I ask tonight that we stop tability," Daccenda noted. "We
symphony and writing the great American novel
refighting the battles and will find out what the guidelines 
Fri. April 25
recriminations of the past. I ask Referring to Failure of Am­require us to do and we will do that 
that we strive to become, in the erican policy in Vietnam in the last much amd more." finest American tradition, decade, the President said: The act may also serve to help something more tomorrow than we "Some seem to feel that if we do organize the information files in a 

Tickets -$1.25 
are today." not succeed in everything, more efficient manner," Faccenda 
White House aides told everywhere, then we have suc­
stated. One of the guidelines in the l•=lliiilliiilllilllilliii;;jj;;jjlllillillll!!!li;;;;;;liililialiililiiii;;jjll!ill!i;;jj;;;&
reporters the President wants ceeded in nothing anywhere. I Jan. 6 report requires schools to Americans to put Vietnam in reject such polarized thinking. We j)Ublish and distribute lists of what perspective, in the past, and turn can and should help others to help information is avaiable, where the their attentions and energy to what themselves. But the fate of information is being stored and he called "an entirely new agenda­responsible men and women who normally has access to the -an aganda for America's third everywhere in the final decision files. St. Mary's College released century." rests in their own hands." such a list to students and their 
"We are saddened, indeed, by The Vietnam conflict and the parents over two weeks ago. the events in Indochina, but these feelings it stirred in Americans "This act could help us find out events, tragic as they are, potend tended to keep U.S. presidents exactly what records do exist here neither the end of the world or of away from college campuses and where we can go when we need 
America's leadership in the because of student agitation. Ford them," Faccenda said. He added world," he said. began moving on to the campuses that he does not believe there are 
as he tried to unify the country or "hidden" files after taking office last year. at Notre Dame. 


THROWING A PARTY??? 

THE OBSERVER IS 

WHETHER YOU'RE GRADUATING OR JUST CELEBRATING, LET US HELP YOU HAVE A. 
BLAST!!! . 
~~ ' 

LOOKING FOR AN.
5 OF THE HA~N1DIEST SPOTS IN TOWN 
1. HANDY SPOT PARTY SHOPPE 3. ROSELAND PARTY SHOPPE 

ASST. AD MANAGER. THIS
1426 Mishawaka Avo. 113 OixioWay N. 
1. N. IRONWOOD PARTY SHOPPE 4. GOLDEN FLASK PARTY SHOPPE 
1725 N. Ironwood 413 Hickory Rd. at McKinley 

IS A SALARIED POSITION,
5. PARTY SHOPPE SOUTH 
• WINES • GOURMET FOODS 4401 S. Michigan at Ireland 
• LIQUORS • PARTY SUPPLIES 


FOR A PRESENT SOPH
• COLD BEER 

"If it's available, we 

BUSINESS MAJOR.
will get it for you." 
IF INTERESTED ­

FREE DELIVERY 
CAll TOM WHELAN AT

287-7744 
7471 OR 1152. 

"~\fl··~· ...
,, •• ,. •• , tt ., ... ~·~-1'):, ;J ~~1:) J ... ·.,....
i))·. .. ' •, '011 \ :1 • t ' J t ~ t 1 I , 11 a • ' • 1 I t IJ " I I \ • <s • • "" .. ,. ' • ' ' ­.~··.·*'~ '• ~~ ·.".3~.~.• .a!·.·.~j,.~,.~·" ....' .. ~·ztwt...,•.· « .. ~, .. • .. • .. 1.~!,.~,_ .• _..... •.~~ •.• ,_ •-;''' ' ... • •-::' ~ •. t.F-"', • •,,., ._, .-"·' ~.', s' \'\~;A\' t t .. 

, 
4 the observer nunc~•v. April 24; lf1S· · · · · ·-· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 
~--~~~~~~~--------~==~~==~~ 
Composer Scott Joplin




resurrecting scott joplin 
For over fifty years the music of Scott Academy Award winning movie, Joplin has Joplin had been lost in the piles of back-shelf at last been placed in the ranks of popular material in Old American Music Shops. The American musicians. Recordings of his ragtime sounds he composed near the turn music are presently on most best-selling of the century, and performed in the . record charts in the nation. A year ago the "honky-tonk red-light districts" of the complete works of Scott Joplin were Mississippi were given the same non-serious I published, and it was this collection which attention as some frivolous and un-1 came to the attention of University Music disciplined compositions of his fellow I Chairman, William Cerny, and inspired the ragtime pianists. And although he crusaded recording of Joplin rags which is presently intensely against this, and the stifling effect ·1 being sold and distributed on campus. of his black appearance, he enjoyed only a The ragtime recordings presented on the brief commercial success. The end of his album, Scott .Joplin, Piano Rags are played life was to be spent in a hospital suffering by Cerny himself as they were recorded in from mental imbalance. ' his home in December. The intention of 
But today, via the exposure of an selling the recordings for four dollars and 
.'I 
. WE HAVE PARTS FOR 
MOST AMERICAN &1 FOREIGN.·CARS' AVAILABLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES 
HOFFMAN BROS. 1101 E. MADISON 234-0181 

making them available according to hall salesmen was to use the procedes to establish a music scholarship fund. If the album sells out completely <there are 1,500 copies on campus l the scholarship fund could begin with $3,000. 
The recordings are well-performed and meticulous. The usual key-pounding which accompanies ragtime is avoided. Cerny slows some of the music down (for instance "The Entertainer" is played slower than in the famous Hamlisch recording) and thus produces that weird and intoxicating effect intended by the composer. According to Joplin this effect is achieved by giving each note its proper time and scrupulously ob­serving the ties. Joplin insisted "never play~ ragtime fast at any time." 
The cover design of the album was designed and photographed by Bruce Harlan, University photographer. The picture, taken in Washington Hall, includes an up-right piano, a swivel stool, and a parlour lamp on an empty stage. There is no one at the piano. Cerny insists that rags, since they have been played and composed by both blacks and whites, cannot be related to a particular race of pianist. The mood of the jacket, as like that of the music within, suggests the bar-room atmosphere of the gay-ninety period. 
Cerny, a graduate of Yale University, taught at Eastman School of Music in Rochester, New York, prior to his chair­manship of the Music Department at Notre Dame. The idea of recording Joplin rags to aid in the establishment of a music scholarship program came to Cerny upon receiving the collected and published works of Scott Joplin as a gift from two of his students, Lydia Lebanauskas and Kendall Rafter. Cerny has devoted himself not only to this recording and his career at Notre Dame .but to his pursuit of musical per­fection. This album, reflective of his talents, is excellently performed and 
vaudeville! 
Yallllt·vilh• :\ll'morit's, a lively ex­travaganza of music and comedy routines, will Ill' presented this Sunday and Monday at lh<' Litllt• Tht•ater of Moreau Hall. St. ~lary's College. The Sunday Pt>rformance Will bt' a at 2 p.m .. and the 1\londay show will takt> plact• at !I in the Pvening. 
llirec!Pd. arranged. and choreographed h~· SpPI'Ch and Drama st>nior Sandy Sch­wartz. \'amlnillt' 1\lt'mm·it•s is part of "SI'rit's 484". Ihe group of productions used as partial fulfillmPnt of rPquirt•mt•nts towards the advanced directing class of tht• llrama deparlmmt. Past productions in this sPries wPre I llo! I llo! and Star­Spanglt•tl (;it·L 
With its <;Prshwin and Cohen numbers, its high-kicking ehorust•s. and its comPdy and spPciality acts. \'autlt·villt' 1\lt•moriPs will be a lw a rt'-erealion of an actual vaudeville production of by-gone days. 
Tht•n• will lw no admission 


"Theworst 
thingcancer 
didtome 
was make me 
soundlike 
a toughcop:' 
Police Captain Paul Scriffignano 
"21 years ago I got one of Cancer's Warning 
Signals, hoarseness. I 
went to the doctor fast. A short while later they 
removed my larynx. In 
seven months I was back 



Up 

many
on the beat. Three years later I got my Sergeant's stripes. And here I am 


to selections.
today, cured of cancer. 

0/oKnow Cancer's 7 Warning Signals and give to the American Cancer Society. We want to wipe out 
Closeouts, Overstocks, Reductions. 
cancer in your lifetime." 

I 


decorator · store.
American lj
CancerSociety t 

100 CENTER COMPLEX •Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 259-0880 
ThiS sPaCe contnbuted by the pub~sner 1 




• 5

Thi:n'silat,' Atlr'il 24, '1975 · the observer 
•




monet's 'captured moments'·· 1n chicago
·chris herlihy 


looking back on notre dame english 
When Charles Dalt.on announced in 1805 that his experiments supported an atomic theory. the reverberations of the new scientific age jolted the art world. Artists left their dark studios and their romantic painting of dancing nymphs and wandering shepherdesses . They set their easels outside and sketched natural subjects such as fishermen, washerwomen, the ever­changing seas and sky. Influenced by a Fn•nch chemist's recent discovery that the Pye tends to mix juxtaposed colors from a distance. the impressionists experimented with a new style. hoping to capture an in­stant of life and preserve it for eternity. No artist so devoted his life to that science than Claude Monet. 
II!' not only emerged the leader of the nwvPmPnt by his intrepid experimentation in hrushstrokes and color but, by his unyiPlding t>xamination of lighting on the samP subjects. he also perfected the IPchnique or rendering the transient effects of atmospheric light. Consequently. Monet suggests impressions of reality, the instant that image strikes the camera lens, not the dick of theshutterresulting in flat actuality. IIis landscapes Pcho sensual memories and 
catch them in the conscious mind of the 
dPW!'r. 
This is what makes Mo.net so instantly 
appPaling and why the crowds jam into the 
corridors of the Art lnstitue of Chicago 
until May lOth to view the special exhibit of 
1\lonet art gathered from collections all over 
lhP world. 
ThP art lovers press into the small 
~allPries to witness the development of 
1\lone\'s attempt to capture the light of life. 
\\ onwn in lht• (;arrlen ( 1860) dominates the 
forward wall of the first ,room and its em­
phasis on the articulation of the com­
posit ion places it in Monet's early period. 
ThP large flat shapes of the women's pastel 
drPss~ contrast with the dark stiff 
foliage of the trees. The gray shadows on 
a parasol and the sidewalk are sharply 
dPfinPd whilE' the women's facial features 
art• rPndPrPd in careful detaiL 
ThP gPnPsis of the Impressionist 
movPm••nt premPates the next gallery. The 
l.a (;rt•nnnillen· is a product of that fruitful vear of 1B69 in which Renoir and 1\lonPt (JaintPd together at that popular Fn•nch bathing spot. They discovered that 
shadows are not brown or black bvt that an 1 object's color is influenced by its surroundings, the reflections of other ob­jects, and the light in which it is viewed. ­This painting of a small pond with boats and small picnic island affirms Monet's in­creased use of pure unmixed colors Pspecially the primaries and their com­pliments. The water is a series of horizontal strokes of pure color--the embryo of the impressionist brushstroke--and the light seems to glint from the ripples of water. The picnicers are mere shapes of color and ' the background trees scribbles of yellow­green.
The Ponrl at Argt>nteuil (1873) further develops this impressionist freedom from defined shape. The three sailboat hauls are a blurr of white, one ameared with a bright orange stroke near the bow which contrats with the intense cobalt blut> of the pond. When viewed at close range the secret of this intensity is revealed. Monet employed a technique borrowed from Constable, an English painter. in which myriad shades of the same color are placed in close proximity I o Pach other and depend upon the eye to mix them. 
As the gallery visitors enter the next room they sigh with familiarity as they recognize the airiness and luminosity so charac­teristic of the well-proved Monet.The people huddle around Monet's (;arrlen at Argen­lt•uill IB73l is an instant favorite with its profusion of roses suggested by daubes of color. flowPring in front of a blue shuttered cottage.
:\ftpr the summPr of 1874 in the wPstern outskirts of Paris, a meeting which t'PmPnled the objects of the Impressionist movemPnt among its pioneers. Manet, (·a illPbot te. Henoir. 1\lonet's painting achieved a new confidence. In Still Life with Spanish i\lpiJon 1IB80l the green grapes scintillate with the light despite the thick application of paint. in contrast to the squarPs of gray which blend into shadow on thP draped table cloth. But in a rendition of lht• sam!' themt>. Still Life: Apples and ( ;rapt·s. the fruit stands out more boldly and brightly because of thick outlines of color which trace Pach of the shapes, a style latl'r dPvPloped by Van Gogh. The shading on the tablP cloth is a swirl of rosy pinks and cool blu('S. a color schPmt' which became 
1\tonet's favorite. ('anal in Zaanrlam (1871 l 
Towards the end of the series the hushed mospheric. _conditi~n. After building a crowds stream into the 1884-94 period which special studw lookmg out over his pond attests to Monet's pre-occupation with spanned by a Chinese bridge and stocked Pxamining the same subject in various wtlh the floatmg pla~ts, Mon~t devoted the lighting conditions. So concerned was last ten years of h1s hfe to ~mng a _series on 1\lonet in realistically portraying light that th1s them£>. H1s early pamtmgs which covre hl' refused to brush in the background until the walls of a sel?~rate gal~ery are cleany the reached the desjred time of day, and t:~ecut~d water hhes floati~g m th~ sky­then he worked feverishly to paint all parts aflectmg pond. Only_the bridge provides a of the picture in the same light. He painted sohd permanent object m th1s watery poplars and haystacks day by day, season world; water and sky are all vuln~rable to by season. in every possible light. Later he movemPnt and the scattermg of hght. became intriqued with the way light played The final showing is the ultimate Monet. upon the gothic spires and arched doorway Ills last water lily paintings splash the three of the Houen Cathedral which he rendered walls w1th pure abstract colors: turquoises, as a sugar crystalization of vague greens. blues, and deep purples. Life spills triangular and rectangular shapes. The out of the containers of shape and time and YiewPr f('lls that he has passed a day on the pools m an mstant before the <'yes. The steps of that church as he gazes at The gallery-crowds constantly swirl beneath the ('atlwtlral Hout>n Albany Tower, Early -hkndmg patches of pure color as though :\lorniug with its pink and blue pastels and thPy are a part of the moment which hardy detectable left spire shrouded in the \·anishes at the blink of the eye, the tick of a Yague mist and then glances at Houen watch. ! 'athNiral . tht• Facade in Sunlight which Frpezing fragil moments of life and rises sharply against the blue sky, a prPservmg them for eternity absorbed hluPness t•choed in the deeply recessed 1\lonet's Pntire life. Only among the windows and arched doorway. gallenes of Art Institute. among the jostling 
But it is in the water lilies that Monet erowds does one receive an impression of achiPvPd his greatest freedom. liberating the fragility. the temporarily of human tht> canvas to the pure instant of an at-t'XISIPnce. 
You are taking a playwriting course taught by Richard Sullivan. Ernest San­deen has you in class three times a week. I your sophomore year you took "The Philosphy of Literature" with Frank O'Malley. You could be a 1975 ND student who likes English--but you might just as well be studying in the English department in 1946. More than any other the English department has maintained a continuity over several decades, in faculty, in course offerings, in purposes. Despite many dif­ferences, the English department of the 1970's is the direct descendant of the department of the 1940's. 
Of course, life at ND was somewhat dif­ferent back in 1940. First of all there was no,O'Shaughnessy Hall to contend with. All the English classes were held in the Main Building, the Commerce Building, and the Science <now LaFortune) Building. Although having the distinct advantage of doors that opened into the classrooms, the poor acoustics and crowded conditions in many of the rooms left much to be desired. The head of the department, Fr. Leo L. Ward, had a tiny office on the fourth floor of the Main Building. In the early part of thee decade it had no phone and no secretary. There were no faculty offices; meetings with students would take place in empty classrooms or in the Caf--the pay cafeteria in the South Dining Hall. 
If you were an-ND student at that time, 
you bought your books in a corner of the 
bottom floor of Badin Hall--and the length of 
the wait was a campus joke. Letters to the 
Scholastic complained of the long lines that 
formed outside the building in Badin Bog, 
"queues that lasted all day long and into the 
evening ." 
11 your professors looked tired oc­
casionally, it was probably because they 
were carrying a heavy teaching load. In 
1940, John T. Frederick taught five different 
American literature courses, plus two 
writing courses. Richard Sullivan taught a 
total of 22 credit hours-six different cour­
ses. 
Twenty-seven undergraduate English 
courses were offered in 1940, mostly surveys 
of American and English literature, the 
different genres, and grammar and writing 
classes. Sullivan recalls that in the early 
years, "we were lucky to have 40 English 
majors in the entire University. "The 
departments's main aim was to provide a 
basic background in English skills and 

J. T. Frt>derick literature to all colleges of the University. If you were lucky, you were placed in Tom Madden's freshman English, College Rhetoric and Composition. Students who knew the department took Frank O'Malley's "Philosophy of Literature," a course he began teaching in 1937 and continued teaching for more than 35 years. Richard Sullivan's specialty was drama and creative writing. He taught Drama 107, Playwriting 108, and Writing Short Fiction 105 and 106. John T. Frederick nearly cornered the market on American and contemporary fiction, assisted by Frank O'Malley's "Modern Catholic Writers". Andrew Smithberger handled Romantic poetry and prose. Later on in the decade, when the ' department grew to 37 instructors to handle the influx of G.L students, John Frederick Nims's "Poetry of the Twentieth Century" attracted the students. And in 1946 a Mr. Ernest Sandeen began teaching with the inevitable freshman Comp. and Rhetoric. The many fine teachers on the English faculty contributed much to its reputation 
and its effectiveness. Every undergrad, no matter what College he was in, was required 
to take at least six English credit hours. The recommended program for Commerce students included 18 English credit hours. Faced with a roomful of Commerce students who perhaps thought they had better things to do, teaching in the cramped, anti~uated, and stuffy Main Hlifiding, the professor 
needed a great deal of skill and patience to put Chaucer across. Of course, not everyone became enchanted with grammar and syntax; Professor Sullivan, in Notre Dame' wrote of a professor whose job, as he saw it, was to "lead my students into the bushes and let them hack their way out." Presumably some never again saw the light of day after such an experience, but there is no question about the teaching expertise of, for example, Lou Hasley, who also wrote poetry and articles; Norbert Engels, who published verse and criticism; John Frederick; Fr. Ward; Sullivan, Smoth­
berger, anti Fr. Paul Beichner. 

Several members of the department were well-known for their fiction and poetry. Fr. Leo Ward, head of the department from 1937 until 1953, was a writer himself, and was particularly sympathetic to the problems of the teacher who writes and the writer who teaches. John Frederick Nims, a 1937 graduate of Notre Dame who joined the faculty in 1939, wrote poetry that was widely 
antholgized. In 1947 he published his first collection of poems, Iron Pastoral. The Chicago Sun compared Nims favorably to Sandburg as a poet "who sees the com­plexity of modern urban-industrial society . . . and expresses his vision in a more or­derly, eloquent manner <than does Sand­burg)." In addition to his work as a poet, Nims was an amusing, interesting lecturer, notwithstanding his own analysis of his classes: "Only 4.8 percent of my students fall asleep. The rest whose eyes are closed and shaded are sunk in a contemplation so profound it is frequently most impossible to distract them." 
If Nims was known 
. 
1 


· don roos 
walls as a poet, Richard Sullivan established his reputation as a writer of fiction. Between the years 1942, when he published his first novel, Summer after Summer' and 1953, when the English department moved into O'Shaughnessy, he published five novels, one ' non; fiction volume entitled Notre Dame and literally scores of short stories. Commonweal noted his '"brilliant craftmanship" and his "truly superb understanding of human beings," which made his work representative of the finest contemporary fiction. He has been the recipient of several prizes and awards for his short stories and plays, including the 
0. Henry Award for short fiction. A 1930 graduate of Notre Dame, Professor Sullivan joined the facutly after a year at the Chicago-based Goodman School of Drama. Nest semester, Professor Sullivan will teach "Playwriting", the course he began his teaching career with back in 1936. 
Another professor involved in literary activities outside the University was John T. Frederick. He originated a CBS radio show out of Chicago entitled "Of Men and Books," consisting of interviews with authors and critics. His interest in the contemporary author is demonstrated by "Midland," a small magazine be founded to give con­temporary Midwest authors the opportunity to publish. 
It was this group of writers, along with 
Louis Hasley, Assistant Dean of the College 
of Arts and Letters, that organized the Notre 
Dame Writers' Conference. The conference 
was the brainchild of John Nims, who 
wanted to assemble writers, agents, and 
critics well-established in their fields to 
discuss their work with aspiring writers 
from all over the country. The first week­
long conference was held in the summer of 
1949. Three 2-hour sessions were held each i day in the Rockne Memorial, to consider the writing and publishing of poetry, short ' fiction, and the novel. In spite of the temp­tations of the Notre Dame campus m summer, serious work was accomplished. The quality of the visiting faculty was high: Jessamyn West, Karl Shapiro, and J. F. Powers were three of the may lecturers that gave the Notre Dame Writers' Conference and the Notre Dame faculty a distinguished reputation among contemporary writers. 
. And it was this dedication to both teachinl and learning that made the Englisli department of the forties something worth remembering. 

~ ~~den~rver Founded November 3, 1966 Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief llob Zocu Business Mana1er llob McManus Advertlsinc Manacer EDITORIAL BOARD AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Fred Graver, Executive Editor; Jim Eder, Editorial Editor K<'n Girouard. News Editor; Pat Hanifin, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor KPn Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; TomD'Neil. Features Editor lhris Smith. Photo Editor I--------Ed_ir_o_ri-•h_:_lB_l_-861>_1_____;N..;.e=ws:. 281-1715 8usinen: 28)-7471 Thursday, April 24, 1975  



Pecheck Dismissal 
The firing of Physical Education Instructor and Wresling Coach Fred Pechek demands a public explanation. 
Fr. Burtchaell, University Provost, had stated that there is a "firm rule" in the administration not to comment on individual cases of faculty hiring, firing and promotion. This case, however, is no longer a private matter between Pechek and the administration. 
The fact that 1500 students felt strongly enough to petition the University to re­instate Pechek is the reason that this case is now a public matter. The mere fact that such a large number of students, largely freshmen and sophomores, have expressed their disapproval of the firing and their approval of Pechek as an in­structor is significant in itself. With the exception of the basketball ticket con­troversy, no single issue has so united the student body this year. 
Look at the facts as they have been presented so far: Pechek was confronted in May, 1974, by Thomas Fallon, chair­man of the Physical Education Department, and told that the 1974-1975 academic year would be a trial period for him. According to Pechek, the areas of disagreement with Fallon at that time were dress and attitude. An evaluation by the Committee on Appointments and Promotions in the Physical Education Department this year gave Pechek un­favorable comments in areas of class organization, appearance, and attitude. 
Pechek contends that 'he has never 
been given a definite explanation for his 
dismissal and questions motives as dress, . teaching, and class organization as possible reasons for his dismissal. 
Thus far Fallon, Burtchaell and Emil 
Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year, 
have refused to provide reasons for the 
firing. 

If the reasons are that Pechek violated 
a departmental dress code or that his 
classes were disorganized, these reasons 
are unsubstantiated. 
The best indicator of the falsity of these 
charges is that 1500 students, mostly 
former students of Pechek's, got excited 
enough to demand he be reinstated. 
These students demand some sort of 
explanation why a good teacher and 
coach will not be allowed to return to 
Notre Dame next year. 
It is possible that Fallon, the 
Promotions Committee, and Burtchaell 
have other reasons for the firing that 
should not be revealed publicly. If this is 
the case, Pechek at least deserves a 
private explanation simply as a 
courtesy. 

If these reasons do exist, they must be good enough to outweigh the petition of a significant part of the student body. 
If such private reasons are not serious, 
then the case must be re-opened in the 
face of an overwhelming student support 
for Pechek. Th Ed"t _ 1 B d
e 1 ona oar 



Dpil:aian 
A Position On Parietals julian pleasants 
When so many of the student body are against limiting visitation hours, those of us on the SLC planning-policy committee who voted to ket>p them as they are, owe the students a rationale for our stand. 
One of the advantages of the SLC is that it provides a wide range of viewpoints. The position on parietals as a biologist and en­vironmentalist is one that most people would never think of by lhemselves. but having heard it, they may find it worth thinking about. 
It starts from I he observation that the ending of visitation hours at midnight weekdays or 2 a.m. weekends has some influence in settling I he hall down for study or sleep. In so doing, it has to buck lhe lendency of studetns. and young people generally, to keep a more nocturnal life style, as pointed out by Ed Byrne in hiss letter lo SLC' members suggesting an extension of visiting hours. His positions is that the hours should accomodate this life style. My position is that the hours I at least on weekdays l should remain as a rPminder of I he ecological and educational wastefulness of such a lifP style. 
This recent trend of the young to turn themselves into nocturnal animals. or night people. is a waste of the energy needed to light ;md heat lhe WPe small hours of the night, a waste of eyesight, a waste of the daylight they sleep through and the natural beauty lhat can be seen by it. But these are rather minor compared to lhe waste of Pducational potential that occurs when the students' rhythm of intellectual activity has been shifted out of phase with lhe intellectual opportunities provided by the lecture and laboratory schedule of the University. It is a waste of the students' and thP faculty's time when students get little from the lecturers, l'ither from lack of sleep or lack of breakfast, or simply because their mPntal energy won't peak for another 8-10 hours. And if they miss getting material when it's easiest to understand, they have to spend Pxtra time at night studying it, setting up a vicious circle. The I rend toward increasingly nocturnal living is simply the youth \'Prsion of the philosophy of waste. The worst feature of !heir unexamined attitude toward parietals is that it ill prepares thPm for the kind of world thl'y are going into. 
The student movement of the 60's carried some of the seeds of its own dissolution. and this was tragic because their criticism of the PstablishmPnt was profoundly true. But they tried to combine a maximal concl'rn about the environment with a maximal demand for personal freedom. The Iwo are antithetical. An unlimited choice of life styles is a luxury affordable only by a country of unlimited resourcl:'s. We are all in the unhappy and temporarily discour1fging state of discovering limitations. You cannot maximizl' everything. In fact, you can't maximize anything withou.t tragic consl'quences. In a community with definite goals, the demand for maximum efficiency in reaching those goals can destroy personal freedom .But the demand for maximum choice of lifP styles can waste so much of people's time and effort that the goals are poorly attained. As biological evolution will tell you, life is made possible by compromises. 
Colleges in the 60's crumpled before the student demand for unlimited life styles because the college administrations were no hPIII'r prepared than the students to decide which rules belonged to 
paternal authorit_ . which you outgrow your need of, and which rull's belonged to community support, which you never outgrow ~·our need of. The mature person is not the person who no longer need~ community standards, hut the person who recognizes that he will alway!) nl'l'd community standards in some area, both to protect himself from exploitative individuals, and to reinforce his nwn good iniPntions. 
I havP pointed out in a recent scholastic article on world hunger, Ihat colll'ge t:ducation demands a tremendous investment of money and time which could be used to meet other more pressing world needs. That investmelft can he redeemed nevertheless by the greater capability of coping with world needs that ecucation provides us. But to pay for that l:'ducational opportunity and then waste it to double dpstruction, both of present and future lives. To do so nut of an arbitrary demand for a more nocturnal life style, apparl'ntly from an adolescent desire to assert one's independence nf the adult world and escape their surveillance, seems childish. 
Colleges in the old days went way too far in trying to maximize the pfficiency of the academic pmcess. seeming to ignore the need and !'Ven Pducational value of social interaction. See the objective of pariPiallimilation not as one of reducing social interactiom but of shifting thl' student's ml'ntal rhythm into phase with the Pducational resources offered by lectures, labs and invited lec­turers. 
We can honestly differ on where the line should be drawn to reach a balance hetwl'en common educational goals and personal freedom. But I feel that we would all have failed you as educators if WI' let you believe that you can maximize personal freedom and still save the environment and achieve community goals. 
You will havl' to learn to live with car pools, public tran­sportation. fewl'r disposables, less meat. more taxes, fewer unilateral decisions whether as individuals or as a nation. All of lhl'se will cramp your life style. The establishment didn't invent limitation. but it limited us for the wrong goals. You have to pick hl'tter goals. but you will not escape the need for limits. 
I Sl'l' no reason why a Catholic university has to follow all other university trends. I said in my Scholastic article that Catholic m<'ans universal. means concern for all men. It also means con­CI'rn for all values. You can't maintain that concern for all of them while trying to maximize one of them. 
the observer 

Night Editor -Dan Sanchez Typists -Janet Carney, Barb Ass't Night Editor -Mary Janca Norcross, Camille Arrleh, Jim 
Copy Rader -Bob Mader, Ken Landis Girouard Compugraphic Operator -Morey Day Editor -Ken Girouard Blinder Ass't Day Editor-Martha Fanning Picture Screener -Albert D'An­Editorials -J. Amantea tonio 
Features -Tom O'Neil, Franz Night Controller -Rick Huber Lanzlnger, Jim Stevens Sports -Bill Brink, Bob Brink 


----------~~ -~--~------------------_~.-.-.-.~.-.-.-.· · · ~.~.~--,.i.~~-;~-v.-.A-p-~i-i-24.-,-,7-s_____t_h_e___o_b_s_e_rv_e_r---7-------.~ 

-~-;--......----=­
right in front of my door, where I Department of Preprofessional I would like to address myself to • 
, was standing, and exposed his Studies. But I believe it should be student socialization, the ~social ~ genitals to me. Needless to say, I kept for the benefit of future pre-atmosphere, whatever we might was nauseated by the experience. med students at N.D. And I believe call it, especially among men and But I was sickened even more so Fr. Burtchaell will be furthering women. Last semester I witnessed 
P. 0. Box Q 
by what occurred to me later in the his already bad image as a callous, -via the Observer -a beautiful · night: I realized what kind of insensitive administrator if he array of egotistic insults between "men" Notre Dame was preparing succeeds in abolishing the men and women called "The to take the pressure off the student ' for the future, and what kind of department. Chemical Composition of Woman so that he can learn -as violently demented, depraved individuals and Man." I find it absurd andCourse opposed to memorize. populate this campus. , ""Steve Hudock · childish to point fingers at Dr. Che-Mponda is incredibly This reaction is prompted by ALPP '77 • someone else when the fault lies inEvaluation qualified and knowledgeable in his high-pitched emotions, I realize. eachof us, it lies inside our person.field. He is quite lucid in his lec­
But all the same, I'm sure that I With exception to few, most of us 
II 
tures, and he is always available am not alone in my sentiments. I let Fa 0 n find it easier to withdraw within to his students. In speaking of the
Cheap Shots was not the only girl revolted by ourselves than to extend ourselves · 
organization of classes, one must 
this display of twisted sexual by reaching out to help others. 
DE>ar Editor: consider the fact that Africa itself behavior. Certainly others will GO To·o Does it take that much to pick upis so radically disorganized 
support my feelings. the telephone or go over and see
I recently had the pleasure of politically that it defies any im­1 someone? Is it that hard to extendglancing through the Course position of structure. A simple 
Name withhe}d upon request yourself to another? Apparently
Evaluation booklet published by switch from one country to another Dear Editor: so. It's about time we get over ourthe scholastic each semester. In presents an entirely different egocentric attitudes and super­
my years here at Notre Dame, I've situation. In regards to the recent decision 
Mr. Evaluator, you are certainly jock, Miss Irresistable images. We
learned to cherish these pamphlets not to rehire Coach Pechek as aentitled to your opinion. But when can contribute so much to our­
as though they were so many Keep Physical Education instructor, I 
bibles. For the most part, the an opinion is as drastic as yours, selves and others if we learn that
feel I must speak out. As a fresh­
Pvaluations are excellent. They and when you know it is to be used it's gotto be ME that makes that
man, I have had the experience of 
serve the purpose of filling the as a standard, couldn't you The ALPP first step. It's not the other guy, it 
having both Coach Pechek and Dr. 
'great white expanse' of more possibly resist your megalomanic starts inside ourselves. As
Fallon, as instructors in handball 
courses than a student could impulses and consult with others in President Truman once said, "The
DE>ar Editor: and racketball respectively. I've
possibly discover if left-to his own order to see if your opinion has just . buck stops here."
Undergraduate medical found both men to be equally
rPsources. But I received a large cause to be published. Positions, 
education in the U.S. has many competent in teaching the fun­
shock in reading a "eview of one even such as an evaluator, carry Jim Holland 
problems. One of these is that damentals of their respective
course which I have already taken. with them such responsibility. You 
That course is Introduction to apparently chose to shirk yours. students are often required to take sports.Both men have been equally Gun African Politics taought by Dr. courses more germane to botany helpful, enthusiastic and available. Aleck Che-Mponda. Karl Kl'mph or pharmacy than to human I feel that both of these men are 
-

The opening line of the review medicine, in order to oomplete able instructors. If Coach Pechek Rationale? was "This course is poor." It went their majors. Another is that isn't rehired because it is felt that 
DE>ar Editor:

on to say that those registered students are often required to take he is an imcompetent instructor, wPre in for an easy grade, but even The Notre more science courses than they although 1500 others and 'myself 
When the "Christian Com­

this did not justify taking a course need, arid they waste time have signed a petitionstating so disorganized that it frequently otherwise, then I feel it is only 
munity" can somehow rationalizeDame Mach0 ~~h~~i~ng these courses in medical hosting a gun show (April 27-ACC)

degenerated into stories of the right that Dr. Fallon isn't rehired 
professor's personal experiences. Notre Dame's Department of for the same reason. at the hallowed grounds of Our directed I'd to the
My question, to the Preprofessional Studies remedies Lady, like hear 
reviewer, is: "What kind of Dear Editor: reasoning. There is one reason for
these proble!li.s. Instead of taking Paul White
misanthropic moron are you to the manufacture of guns, that is, to
a biology or chemistry major, and
revel in anonymous cheap shots at Once again, last Wednesday kill. There is one reason for the
thus taking courses extraneous to
the expense of both a professor and night, the "men" of Notre Dame medicine to those manufacture of hand guns, that is ,
fulfill majors,
students who look to you for demonstrated their matchless Make The tokill people. It seems inconsistent
students can structure their major 
.advice on what course they may virility and refined tastes. I refer, with the University's "Right to
more towards medicine. Also.
find desirable?" 
of course, to the moronic behavior Life" stance that it display these
the Arts and LettersThe instructor of this course, Dr. 
First Step
and sick sexual recreation that tools of death. The true university
Che-Mponda, is a sensitive, in­Preprofessional Program
passes for "harmless, good­colors are blatantly displayed this
telligent human being, with a especially allows students to take
natured fun." weekend : they are . dollar-green 
fierce self-pride that is really only the bare minimum of sciences
What happened at Farley Hall, Dear Editor:. and blood-red.
beautiful. The unfeeling boor who required for med school, while
where I live, was gross in nature Thus we find that high moral
wrote the review of his course letting them take courses in other
and perverted beyond belief. A During my freshman year I have standards dissolve when exposed
caused him pain and em­fields that may interest them,
sizeable crowd of male come to know more and more to the universal solvent, the dollar. 
harassment. The man deserves instead of making them squander
"streakers" entered our dorm and about the community of students in Having a gun show at Notre Dame 
neither. is courses are easy. But their undergraduate education on what the hell is wrong with easy proceeded to run wild, exposing science courses which they neither which I belong here at Notre on Sunday is like Fr. Toohey 
courses? Like most 'jock' courses themselves to the frightened girls Dame. Much of DuLac has im­dedicating an abortion clinic on
need nor enjoy.
at this university (and I sincerely who were seeing what was the pressed me, however parts of the Mother's Day. BANG! believe I've taken them alll, the confusion in the corridors. My major will probably be "whole" Notre Dame that I wanted point isn't the snap A. The point is One particular pervert stopped unaffected by the loss of thee to be a part of were nonexistent. Rill Oberhardt 


Dpinian Co-ed Living: Two Views 
p~~!!!~~!~~-;ti;o;~;a;l;l;~;i;n;g~~;x;p;e;r;~~ffi;t;';'~~;T;h;e~p;ro;p;o;s;a;l;b;y;F;r;.;M~c;N;a;ll;y;t;o~;d;a;y;,;I;r;a;r;cl;y;f;i;~~t;~;t~w;o;m;e;n~a;re~~R~.~J~~~ 
nul of 1hP Notre Dame lab book. Why? Because we do not need it. make Grace Hall a coed dorm the cause. Are any of the dorms as ND-SMC are not good. Proof lies in 
fJpspitP the fact that any dismissal of co-ed living brings represents a new development at they are right now vestibules of the numerous male-female letter protests against one as a hater of communication, of progress, of Notre Dame. I am a senior. The peace, quiet, and holy solitude'? wars the Observer has staged. One libPralion. and of "love". such a dismissal is exactly what this rumors throughout my four years source of the problem is this: ND-campus net'ds. For if indeed, this university is dedicated to the here have maintained that coed Women must indeed be an evil SMC students lie amidst a schism furthPrance of higher education. than we should not expect it to living would never come to pass at and rowdy bunch if they can make between reality and image. dally with proposals of such limited value. Notre Dame. C.S.C., it was said, the violation of privacy already MIPr all. there is no point in conducting an experiment when the stood for--besides other things--present at Notre Dame any worse. 
The image of the ND-SMC

results art' already known. C'an't Stand Coed-dorms. Never l Even if there is a problem of this student is John Wayne wearing aThe proponents of a coeducational dormitory base their plea on was there to be an 'Irish' com-sort, could it not be resolved football helmet. He -she is
lhP ncPd for communication. discussion, friendship, and "love" mune. simply by outlawing cheerleaders !supposedly l agressive, athletic,hetwpen the men and women living here. Unfortunately for these with megaphones from the new succesful. intelligent, organized, aproponPnts. and fortunately for mankind (and, of course, Much of the discussion so far coed dorms>'? 
past captain of the football team,womankind>. all of these essential interactions have been going on concerning McNally's proposal or girls' basketball, a high school sincE:' (;cnesis. chapter 1. Somehow generation after generation of has been conducted in terms ofthe student body president, and, ofour ancestors have managed to fall in love, get married, and be social sciences. I would simply course. hard working ... the reality,IMssPd with many children without the aid of coeducational dor-like to offer a measure of common however, is not as edifying.

mitories. sense. What possible reason could 'What possible Domers are usually shy, bookish,anyone give for insisting the sexes and nearly anti-social. The sons
live apart? I presume that most of the individuals at this university reason could and daughters of Notre Dame are
'We do not need it.' have ceased worrying about girl qr not so much "take charge" per­
sons as they are "take book in handboy cootees. m not, I suggest Jaw school hopefuls."

Now. let us review some of the less lofty arguments for coed they're not contagious>. anyone give for living. Basically they are two. First, sharing the same dormitories with the opposite sex would provide the perfect cure-all for one's The issue seems to me Amidst such a situation is there poor dating record. Secondly, such a situation would provide resolvable by very simple logic. It insisting the any wonder that relations between ample opportunities for premarital sex. has been my observation that the the sexes are jazzed up. Notre 

Each of these arguments must be answered with the sometimes human race is roughly divided into • ? 1 Dame and Saint Mary's women cruel facts of real life. The first jolt may be the realization that the 2 kinds, male and female. These sexes IIVe apart. 'are looking for Johnny Latner and long awaited cure-all for the "brown helmet" just does not exist. If two sub-types are distributed in a finding instead Bill Zlotch with a Wt' never measured up to our Don Juan fantasies before, maybe we homogeneous fashion over the face law shcool application in hand. just are not Don Juan. At least not without losing a 'few battles in · of the earth. What then is the point Notre Dame men have their hopes the arena. behind the great divide'? Why set on finding an earthy version of 
The second jolt should be less surprising than the first because should men split apart what But I guess the type of privacy Mother· Mary and find instead WP have really known the facts all along. That is, the perpetration Mother Nature has left intact? Are these persons are referring to is Lucy t from 'Peanuts') with of such promiscuity demeans the Christian understanding of sex. If segregated dorms preparing more the biological-visual sort. freckles and a spattering of nowhere else. at least here at Notre Dame there sould be an ap­students to live in a sexually de­Even on this ground, however, pimples. preciation for the teachings of the Catholic Church. segregated world'? <What God these arguments mystify me. 
This all implies that the change needed is riot to take place within hath joined together, let no man Assuming unlike Fr. Micheli that Coed dorms, thus, cannot make the walls of a dormitory , but rather, within each one of us. If co­tear asunder>. the McNally plan does not entail relations between the sexes here Pducational living is not the easy solution to one's shortcomings, coed rooms, it would seem that any worse, and might even help the then that means the best answer is a concerted effort by each one of Some C.S.C. priests have doors and walls are quite as good situation. Accidently colliding on us to acquire the virtues (e.g. cheerfulness, sincer-ity, daring, maintained that coed living would at concealing male and female their way to the laundry shoot, charity, Pic. l which really give us the means we need to grow in be a loss of privacy. This bodies from one another as future Grace Hall men and women friendship and understanding with both the men and women we 11rgument mystifies me. It is my buildings. may possibly get their ideality­know. Obviously none of us is the epitome of charm and virtue, but experience as a man that other rel!lily confusions straightenedthat is why we call ourselves students, i.e. we have things to learn. men frequently violate my per­There is further a positive out. Coed living is no panacea for That is the great challenge of being here. We have the opportunity sonal privacy. When I hear a reason why coed-dorms would be a social life at Notre Dame, but it to develop. and we can. stereo blaring at 2 p.m. on a week-good thing for this campus. might be a step toward sanity. 
--------~-~­
~a~_ _!_!th~e~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r_·__·_·_· _· _· .....:T~h=ur:..::~=~~"~·.:.:.A:!:Pr:...:t~t·2::..:~t'-'-;..:..:,''-=13 • • • • -• • • • • • • • • • • • • · • • · · 
ND summer storage scheduled for May 1-13 


so between May 7 and May 13. The  boxl. U.S. Van of Indiana, a  
by Jim Sullivan  Student Union Service Com- subsidiary of Bekins, Inc. has  
Staff Reporter  mission, aided by Fr. David  provided four large, 40 foot vans to  
Schlaver, has set up a schedule of  pick up all items for summer  
Students wishing to store items  pickups for the various halls on  storage.  
over ths summer will be able to do  campus durinll that week. (see  Students from Morrissey, Dillon,  

nate llall 

Wednesday, May Morrissey Dillon Grace Flanner 
Thursday, May 8 Lyons Alumni FarleyBreen-Phillips 
Firday, May 9 Keenan 

Fisher Sorin BadinMonday, May 12 Stanford 

Pangborn Walsh HowwardTuesday May 13 Zahm 
Cavanaugh 
St. Ed's 
Holy Cross 
Location of Van 
Behind Morrissey 
Morris Inn Aux. Parking Lot 
WNDU lot 
WNDU lot 

Behind MorrisseyMorris Inn Aux. Parking Lot WNDU lot WNDU lot Infirmary <west lot( Behind Fisher Behind Bookstore Behind Bookstore Infirmary <west lot) Behind Fisher Behind Bookstore Behind Bookstore 
Behind Zahm Huuddle lot Behind St. Ed'!> Adjacent to Holy Cross 
Time 
9:00a.m.­4:30p.m. 
8:00a.m.· 4:30p.m. 
8:00a.m.· 4:30p.m. 
8:00a.m.­4:30p.m. 
8:00a.m.­4:30p.m. 

United Far1n Workers director
-.. 
discusses hu1nan dignity fight 
by Bob Mader  
Staff Reporter  
Eliseo  Medina,  National  
Director  for  the  United  Farm  
Workers,  said  last  night  that  

migrant farm workers are fighting for human dignity and the right to select their own union in a lecture in the LaFortune Student Center auditorium. The lecture con­cerning the lettuce and grape boycotts was sponsored by MECHA. 
Medina's talk centered around government studies and statistics in order to emphasize the plight of the migrant worker, in terms of legal problems, substandard living conditions, and poverty level wages. 
There are three million migrant workers in the United States today, Medina stated, eight hundred thousand of whom are children under fourteen. These children work full time obtaining at most a sixth grade education. 
"It's not a question of getting an education," Medina continued, "but a question of survival." The average family o four makes $3000 a year, he explained, while a single person makes at most $1800. "It takes a lot more than $1800 a year to live in the United States today," Medina· said. 
The farm workers have been excluded from every major labor bill passed in the last 50 years, according to Medina. In the 1930's Congressional leaders were per­suaded to exclude farm labor in the National Labor Relations act, Medina said. "The growers simply don't have a legal obligation to negotiate," he explained. 
Medina went on to say that migrant workers have been left out of unemployment insurance. "A migrant farm worker when he's out of work has to pack up his entire family in his car or truck or a bus, and go looking for work, sometimes thousands of miles away," he stated. 
Medina praised Cesar Chavez for his work. "He went to 30 schools and got a sixth grade education," he said. "Here was somrbo.dy who didn't just talk about the problems but started to talk about solutions." 
According to Medina, Chavez warned the workers about the difficulties of a strike, but , workers were enthusiastic, and the first strike.began on September 16, 1965, Mexican Independence Day. 5,000 workers went on strike that day in California, and Medina's employer called him a Communist, aghast that Medina would do such a thing. After strikebreakers were brought in, and the strike failed, the boycott was started, Medina said. 
Since Medina has an eighth grade education he was sent to Chicago to organize the grape boycott. "I thought Chicago was the next town over," he said. 
Between 1967 and 1970 people stopped eating grapes, Medina related and the growers lost $30 million. The •growers were then willing to negotiate. 
Medina said one _of the most important parts of the contract specifies that workers will be assigned jobs from the union hall and must be employed until the crop is picked. Formerly, Medina said, laborers were selected capriciously by a labor contractor who acted as a middle man bet­ween growers and laborers. "In Florida in 1973," Medina said, "a contractor was found guilty of keeping 29 workers as slaves. He look their pay and kept them at gunpoint. In New Jersey in 1974 a contractor was found guilty of keeping nine worers as slaves." 
The United Farm Worker's contract bans discrimination for any reason, Medina said. Women are now employed as tractor drivers and all workers must be trained to use machinery. Blacks are now employed as grape pickers. "The growers used to say that their hands are too fat, and their too slow. Then, too, they used to say that us Mexicans were low to the ground and had fast hands," Medina stated. . 
Medina outlined ·several other discriminatory practices farm workers are subject to. Included in thses are limited Social Security, no minimum wage which makes workers wages around $1.60 an hour, and no proof of employment such as company paychecks or W-2 forms. Migrant workers are also not covered by disability in­surance. 
Farm workers are subject to substandard sanitary conditions, according to Medina. A U.S. Health Department survey states that the maternal and infant mortality rate is one hundred and twenty-five percent above the national average. Tuberculosis runs 260 percent higher than 

SUPER LOW $$$ BEER PRICES! 10% DISCOUNT ON A CASE OF LIQUOR-WINE 
h

p one 234-0088 

1357 N. IRONWOOD 
average ano influenza and pneumonia runs 200 percent above the national average according to the same survey. Average life expectancy is 49 years, the survey said. 
Medina said the most farm workers' homes may have elec­tricity but no heat or plumbing. l!olrs are dug in the ground for toilet facilities, and sewage ditches run along side the houses, he ex­plained. 
Farm workers cannot afford doctors care, Medina said, poin­ting out that an average office call costs $15 and hospital care averages $175 a day. According to Medina some hospitals in California demand $100 in advance from a migrant worker before treatment will be given. Medina said he has seen workers tie rocks around their stomachs to hold in hernias when they bend over to work. Pregnant women work almost to the day of delivery and midwives aid in deliveries in the labor camps. The infants are either left in the labor camps or put in boxes and taken to the fields, 
t (•nntinnell to Jlage 10) 


Medina 



LIQUOR SHOPPE 
Flanner and Grace must store their belingings on Wednesday, May 7. Lyons, Alumni, Farley and Breen-Phillips are scheduled for Thursday, May 8, and Keenan, Fisher, Sorin, and Badin for May 9. 
There will be no pick-ups over the weekend of the tenth and eleventh. The operation will resume on Monday. May 12 when is when Stanford, Pangborn, Walsh and Howard store their things. The final day, May 13, is slated for Zah­m, Cavanaugh, St. Ed's and Holy Cross. 
The vans will be parked in convenient places near each dorm to be loaded on the appropriate day. Students are warned to make sure they load their belongings on the proper day. Otherwise, there will be difficulty in locating the items next fall. 
All stored items will be returned on September 3,4 and 5 at the same location where they were picked up, except for belongings of the present residents of Badin. Their storage will be dropped off at Lewis Hall. 
Students who are moving off­campus next year and who wish to store their belongings must load them on May 13. The location for off-c.1mpus pick-ups has not yet been determined. 
All students will be receiving contracts from the Service Com­mission, outlining the storage plan. The contracts will contain in­
formation on insurance and limits of liability to students if their belongings are received damaged in the fall. The cost of storage will also be included in the contract. The rates are similar to those last year, and in some cases may even be lower. All payments must be given at the site of pick-up, and my be made by personal check or cash. 
Rented refrigerator pick-ups will be on May 2, 3, 4. Notices will be sent out containing the exact schedule of pick-ups. Trucks will be at each dorm during these days, and students will receive their deposits upon delivering the refrigerator in good condition. 
The Student Union emphasizes that any refrigerator received dirty or undefrosted will result in forfeiture of the deposit. .. All equipment such as ice-cube trays and shelves must be pres~nt, also. 
STEWART MCGUIRE SHOES 
With the Spring Step cushion 

DAD & FAMILY 503 N. Blaine Ave. So. Bend 234-4469 

NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION PROUDLY PRESENTS 
THE 

ALICE COOPER SHOW 
"WELCOME TO MY NIGHTMARE" 

WITH: JOZEF CHIROWSKI 
SPECIAL GUEST STAR:

WHITEY CLAN 
STEVE HUNTER PRAKASH JOHN DICK WAGNER 

SUZI QUATRO 

TUESDAY APRIL 29 8:00 p.m. NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC & • CONVOCATfON CENTER TICKETS NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT 
UNION TICKET OFFICE AND A.C.C. ONLY.
L------------------..11. PRICES: $7.00, $6.00, and $5.00 
L_ 
~~~~---~----..,1 
.. • • • • • • .. .. • • ....... " • ' .... ., c. • • , ~ • -1 .. s .. ~ 
To raise funds lor retarded 
I

Bike-a-Thon slated for Sunday 
The 25 mile scenic ride will begin ween the ages of birth to schoolby Barb Boylan at Logan Center, home of the age."
Staff Reporter 
Council for the Retarded of St. "-'\'> a community, we at Notre Joseph County, at 1:00 p.m. Dame have always held the
The Local Chapter of the Indiana Fr. Theodore Hesburgh gave his tradition of >ervice to ourState Teachers Association will support to the students stating, "It fellowman. Your participation insponsor the third annual Bike Ride 
to help the children at Logan is my pleasure to endorses the the 1975 Ride-A-Bike to be held on Center Sunday, April 27. This marvelous Ride-A-Bike foragain April 27 will again demonstrate our mentally retarded campaign agin concern for others who need our
event offers to bicycle enthusiasts this year. The proceeds from the
of all ages an opportunity to ride help," Hesburgh stated. 
ride will assist Logan Center intheir bikes for enjoyment as well "This wonderful project should as for the benefit of the,mentally providing a meaningful program do much to enhance the lives of thefor handicapped youngsters bet-retarded. 
mentally retraded children and their families, as well as for those
Security image to change who make the effort to help them. Needless to say, the project has 
my complete and enthusiastic
with new uniforms: Pears support and encouragement," he THE CIRCLE K CLUB and the Social Commission at Notre Dame added. are sponsoring a basketball marathon to raise money for Muscular 
by Jean McQuillan 
' Dystrophy. The marathon started Wednesday, April 23 and will
Dan Devine, football coach, has
Staff Reporter ad striped ties. continue until the supply of players is exhausted. (Bob Tracey)
also given his support to thisPears hopes to gradually cahnge unique project as a significantThe Notre Dame Security force all personnel uniforms, though this contribution to the communtiy and 
will attempt to change its image may bot be possible in situations Hall Life Commissioner 
to retarded children.
this summer by wearing new where a clear police image is uniforms. The change is part of an necessary, such as traffic control. For more information about 

applications are sought
experimental program that Arthur The present uniforms were in­riding or sponsoring a rider, Pears is instituting "in order to get troduced in 1966. Proposals for students may contact Will (8397), Mary Lu Bilek, vice president year's hall life commissioner fro~ away from the 'police image'." changing them have been in the Pat (8996), or Kevin 
for student affairs at St. Mary's, today until next Wednesday, Apnl The guards at the main and works for a couple of years, but Connally (289-3408). will accept applications for next 30.
north gates on the morning and have materialized in the past 9C afternoon shifts will be the first to days. Programs such as this have Hesburgh offers $5000 reward Duties of the post include: at­
tendance at hall president'sparticipate. Their uniforms will be been successful at Northwestern meetings, coordinating interhall navy blazers with light blue shirts and Utah. 


activities, attendance at the Boardfor March homocide information of Governance meetings in an 
advisory capacity, and serving on the Student Assembly in an ad­

The University of Notre Dame believed to. have been the first visory capacity. has offered a $5,000 cash reward homicide on its campus in history. 
Reasons for applying for the post 

for information directly resulting Information should be given to 
and qualifications should be listed

in the arrest and conviction of the the St. Joseph County Sheriff's 
on the application, according to 

person who murdered a cleaning office. In the event that more than 
Bilek. 

woman on campus March 22. one party provides such in· 
The vice president plans to make

Mrs. Helen H. Tobolski, a 62-formation, the total of the reward year old widow employed at Notre will be divided equally. 
a final selection for the position by Dame since 1962, was fatally shot Thursday, _April 30. by a person who had broken into 
This is the first year that the hall the Aerospace Building before she Escorts meeting life commissioner will be appointed 
arrived about 7 a.m. 
by the vice president for student

DR. CHARLES B. MAC DONALD entertained faculty and students 
The reward was announced by There will be an important affairs. In previous years, the post 
last night with a lecture on "Dissent in Wartime ~merica". Fro~ 
the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, meeting for all members of the was an elected office. With the
the U.S. Army Center of Military History in Washmgton D.C., he. IS 
C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, Student Escort Service tomight at restructuring of student govern-
responsible for writi the official history of the U.S. Army's In-

who said it reflected the concern of 8:30p.m. in the lobby of LaFortune . ment earlier this semester, thiswhat was Student Center. was made. 

server 
SUmmer 
! 

1 
leisure 









Ten Weekly 
Issues (Jun,12-Aug 14 ) 
friends 
II 


Delivered II YES! Enrich my summer! 
to your II Name_______ I
Home 
I Address 
·--------------------­



$2 ·'-·--··-~-~-····-·~--·~-,~·--~
..... 

----
ining ha Is
Or Sign up next week in the 



Education Center to come to ND 
The Center for Human Development, a group concerned with the spiritual renewal and continuing education of American Catholic priests, will establish its headquarters at the University of Notre Dame, effective June 1, Ht>v.Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, University president, announced on Sunday, April 20. 
Directed by Rev. Vincent Dwyer, C.S.C. , the Center trains priests to be spiritual directors and develops model programs for continuing education for priests. The Crnter was created in 1972 and presently is located at Saint Mary's College in Winona, Min­
"Father Dwyer was invited to Notre Dame," Father Hesburgh said, "Brcause we see in the association a way for the University to reach out and affect thl' life the Church in this country 
According to a Center spokesman, the group chose Notre Dame because it saw evidence here of commitment .to serve the Church by developing potential leadership through such a con­tinuing education program. Also, Notre Dame offers the possiblity of aFfiliation with a doctoral program, particularly in pastoral theology, and a research base in theology to support the Center's field work. The ~roup also hopes to sponsor aational seminars, symposia and simiar "think-tank" events at the University. 
Because Dwyer believes the current crisis of the Church is one of spirituality and is not caused by 'JUtmoded structures, poor plan­ning, inefFicient administration or obsolete theology, the first goal fo the enter for Human Development is the spiritual renewal of the American priesthood. 
The model program, currently 
uperating in nine dioceses and one religious order, begins with a retreat-like workshop led by Dwyer and his staff. So far participation has been no less that 50 per cent and as high as 94 per cent of the priests in each diocese. The workshops are accompanied by spiritual and psychological testing and foilwed by the for­mation of small support groups. ­The Center staff then makes recommendations for specific continuing education programs. At this point, the diocesan director of continuing education assumes coordination of the program, aided by amanagement plan from the Center for evaluating further education needs of priests and programs. 
Thr Center is supported by a $190,000 grant from Lilly En­dowment' Inc. $50,000 from the participating dioceses and $5,000 
Better health care demanded 
Workers' conditions cited 
t ('nntinnl'fl from pagl' Hl Medina said, where many die fromthe sun or pesticides. "When most people think of a farmer, they think of a guy in a straw hat who gets up at five to milk the cows and goes inside for a breakfast of flapjacks," Medina said. "But that's not what it's like." In California the growers are Standard Oil, Dow Chemical, and United Brands, in Florida they're Coca Cola and Pepsi Cola, and in the Midwest they're Van Camps and Hunts Ketchup, Medina pointed out. According to Medina, Tenneco Oil has land holdings the size of Rhode Island and Senator Eastland from Mississippi is a "gentleman farmer" who got a $276,000 subsidy last year from the gQvrrnmmt for not growing cotton on his land. "For the rich it's called subsidies, for the poor it's called welfare," Medina said, "and subsidy doesn't have the connotations that welfare has." Medina said that in 1958 work was stopped for two months in California due to torrential rains. He said his family was given food 
by the federal government which consisted of peanut butter, rotten meat, and cornmeal, all unlabeled. 
"I learned the value of a label that year." he said. 
A U.S. Department of Health survey showed that 800-1000 farm workers died each year from pesticides. These includr · chlorinated hydrocarbons such as DDT and organophosphates. "Those are nerve gasses," Medina explained. "They brought them over from Germany and discovered they kill bugs, too." 
Medina said these pesticides cause skin rashes, inflammation of the eyes, lung diseases, and make the fingernails crack and bleed. He also said that the pesticides have been absorbed into the soil and are absorbed by fruits and vegetables contaminating them. "The government hasn't the manpower to inspect all these things," Medina said. "Any why weren't they banned? Because they're made by Dow Chemical, Standard Oil, and Gulf Oil." 
Medina stated the the UFW contract bans 11 of the most dangerous pesticides, forces the employers to provide protective clothing, and a lag time after spraying before workers re-enter a field. A health and safety com­mission has been set up to enforce these contract clauses. 
The contract demands one toilet in the fields for every 30 workers. "Before you'd have to go behing a tree, or a rock, or a bush," Medina said. "This involves more than just a toilet but the dignity of the workers as human beings." 
A medical plan is called for in the UFW contract where the employer would pay out ten cents per worker per hour. Right now the United Farm Workers run five clinics in the U.S. where a migrant worker can have an office check­up, X-ray and lab tests, and medication for nine dollars. Ac­cording to Medina, the doctors working in these clinics receive five dollars a week, plus room and board. Children pay $4.50 for clinic services, and all additional visits after the first for all workers is free of charge. Tuberculosis tests are now conducted in the labor camps. 
Rape, assaults are a less~r problem at Purdue than at other Indiana campuses 
t c:ontinnffi pagt' I l primary way of insuring attack," said Rogers. Purduf and ISU Two other Indiana schools in­dicated that rape and other physical assaults were very minor problems. Assistant Dean of Student Af­fairs at Purdue University, Sheila Shearon, commented that "Purdue is lucky; there is probably a lesser problem here than on most campuses." She reported that very few in-
RIVER PARK

----------· 

TONITE AT 6·8·10 SAT. & SUN. AT 
2r.4·6·8·1 0 

MON-THURS. 7-9 
ACADEMY AWARD WINNER BEST ACTRESS 
ELLEN BURSTYN KRIS KRISTOFFERSON 
ALICE 
DOESNT UVEHERE 
ANYrv10RE 

cidents of actual rape occur at the LaFayette campus of 27,000 
1 students. "The Purdue Police work in conjunction with the Dean of Students office and residence hall personnel," said Shearon. Deterrants to assault include an emergency phone system and good campus lighting. In addition, students are shown a movie comcerning sensible procedures to use in the veent of an attack, and are encouraged to walk in pairs. 
A spokesman for Indiana State University recalled one or two incidents of rape on the Terre Haute campus last year, but none this year. 
Donald Mighell, Associate Dean of Student Life described "rape workshops" which are conducted through the Student Activities Office. 
"The workshops feature speakers dealing with physical protection from assaults and mental reactions to them," he stated. tl'ontlnut'd on pagt> 11 l 
NOTRE DAME LEGAL AID AND DEFENDER ASSOC. PRESENTS: 
R. EUGENE PINCHAM 
NOTED CHICAGO CRIMINAL ATT' Y 
4:00P.M. SUNDAYI APRIL 27 LAW SCHOOL LOUNGE PUBLIC INVITED FREE 
from Retreats InternatiOnal, an organization for retreat masters. 
In addition to rlirectinlo( the Center, Dwyer also has been assistant academic dean at St. Mary's College and chairman of the Division of Human Develop­ment. He has spend the last five years working and doing research in the area of spiritual formation and has given retreats and workshops to priests, religious and lay people across the country. After receiving S.T.L. and S.T.D. rlegrt>es in ascetical and mystical theology from Catholic Universityof American in Washington, D.C., 
Dwyer joined the University of North Carolina at Charlotte in 1969 as an assistant professor of education, con­centrating his teaching and research in the area of growth and development and moral judgment. He became a Trappist monk in 1955, and has been on medical leave from St. .Joseph's Abbey Spencer , Mass., since 1969. ' 
Other members of the Center staff include Brother Charles Burke, F .. S.C., administrative assistant, and Fathers Peter F. Mullen and Paul J. Henry, staff psychologists. 
TIMM PARTY STORE 
OPEN Mon-Sat 9:00 A.M.-11 :00 P.M. Sun 12:00-11:00 P.M. 
COLD BEER, WINE, GOURMET FOODS 
3114 S. 11th St. Niles, Mi. 683-9875 


THURSDAY 

PITCHER BEER NIT_E 

TONIGHT 
BRUCE CARR 


WHITE HOUSE I.NN 
NO COVER
2839 N. 5th 683-9842
Just 8 mi. north of the state line. 
Take U.S. 31 north to Niles, then north on highway 51 3 mi. 

DOME 1976 

"the yearbook of the university" 
is now accepting applications for: 
-student life editor -organizations editor -sports editor -seniors editor 
-photography editor -business manager 
For more information, or to apply, call Dana at 75.24 between the hours of 7 -9 pm today 
through Friday. A wtitten resume will be required. No applications accepted after midnight on Friday, 
April 25. 

. 
>. l ) • .... I •I • j 1o: j• ) • •• 1 1 ''-. t '! \ I~-1• f.•I f 'I' •' t ·,· t" t • l • • • ~ " , ' • ' 1 , ' r t• .. 
I • ., • • 'P' • 
I . • ... • • • • • rl Ji \ f' I \ I< o ~ I t I J "•' \"'"I , to 1 1 It It •
., , . ... .' . 0 
I • f 1 o1 •' a o • • • • 

' • • ' ,.. -..l!"'~.,v. ·.,. • • • "'··~-·... '• I, '• t, C. f .....f_ .•.:.f..f I Itt&..~& & & • 't' t tr I .a e ..-._·,.·..,•,•.• .. •..,•.. •,•.' "
I 

't,,"",. .... • • I • ~ 'a • • ,. • • ••• •• • • • • • • • • • • • i • • ' ' • • t I t t t e I I • • • ~. • • • • • • • •1'\t....,_" ·. 
··,~­

, ~ .... ~ ~ , .. ~ • , ... , , ,. , , , ., , • • , ~ • • •• '*' t r ,;,. • • ·! • #0 , • ~ • • • •
·• ,. • • •, • 

Thursday, April 24, 1975 the observer 1 1 
At MSU and Illinois 
Midwest campuses guard against assaults 
<continul'd from pagl' 10) 
The campus of 10,000 students also employs a good lighting system and an escort service provided by security. Students are instructed to walk in groups. 
Michigan State University at East Lansing, "hits the problem of physical assault hard at the beginning of the year," according to Kay White, assistant vice president for student affairs. Each September, educational programs on self protection and the avoidance of rape and other assault are conducted in residence halls. 
"I don't expect that we've had 
any increase in the number of 
rapes this year," White said. She 
was only able to guess, estimating 
that approximately 10 rapes take 
place per year on the campus of 
43,500 students. 
Reports of rape are publicized in 
the student newspaper, Michigan 
State News. It is the policy of the 
paper to include the names of 
victims in the reports, although the 
nractice is criticized by some. 
White added, "When some rapes are reported and publicized other victims are more willing to come forward." 
"Rapes seem to occur in spurts, 
though  the  attacker  is  not .  
necessarily  the  same  person,"  
White mentioned.  
She  noted,  however,  that  in  

neighboring East Lansing one man is currently awaiting trial for allegedly. committing forty-five different assaults in one year. 
Available to Michigan State students is a rape counseling service in East Lansing. The whistle system is presently being considered in student government. 
White also stated that the new state law concerning rape has been in effect since April 1. According to this statute, rape is defined in four degrees, and a victim's past sexual experiences cannot be released in court. 
At the Universit of Illinois in Champaign, where 29,000 students are enrolled, "if one incident of rape takes place, it's treated as a 

r-------------------------~
I MA RECORD RACK I
I $1 OFF ! 
I ANY AMERICA I 
I ALBUM I
I 
(SPECIAL STARTS I
I I
NEXT WEEK) I I 
I I 
I I I A FlJLL SERVICE RECORD STORE I 
substantial problem," said Jaclyn 
Kras, assistant dean of campus 
·programs and services. "A 
number have occured, though not 
necessarily in the campus per se," .she noted. 
BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY 
Good Potential Income No Age Barrier Full or Part Time Contact D. A. Doxie 503 N. Blaine Ave. South Bend, IN 
(219) 234-4469 
The campus programs office has women faculty and students. worked with the campus security The campus police at University to coordinate programs to prevent of Illinois provides a program of rapes and assaults. One of these is films and discussion concerning the "Women's Wheels Program," assaults to residence halls and which has volunteer women drive sororities, as well. 







~ NDTiii:yof SMC]§~
Apr. 25, 26, May 1, 2, 3 at 8:00P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium 

THE A T R E 
AU Seats $2.00 

Reservations Students-Faculty-staff
284-4176 
...;.~; .............•........................................•....................................... STUDENT UNION PRESENTS: 
HUMPHREY BOGART 
FILM FESTIVAL April 24 -28 

Engineering Auditorium 
Thurs. Casablanca 7, 9, ·11 p.m. Fri. The Big Sleep 7, 9, 11 p.m. Sat. The Maltese Falcon 7, 9, 11 p.m. 
un. The Caine Mutiny 6:30,9,11 :30 p.m. Mon. The Treasure of Sierra Madre 
6:30,9,11:30 p.m. 

All films shown in the 
NEXT TO RIVER I


I,__________________________. 
Admission: $1.00
12923 MISH. AVE. PARK THEATRE I 
.................................•••............................................................... 
WANTED 
One girl needs housemates to live off campus lor the next school year 284-4828 
Riders wanted: leaving May 12 for Bethesda Md. Returning to NO campus on 16th for graduation. 283-6309 Call late · 
Need ride to Dayton-Call 1200 end of semester 
Need ride to Detroit May 2-Call 1132 
Management Trainee To $14,000 Ready for a new career? We are interviewing for a management training program that will allow you to earn $25,000 or more in 5 years while representing our top team of financial specialists in 
Equities,  Insurance,  Mortgages  
and  Tax  Shelters.  Sent  your  
resume' to  

Charles M. Newbanks 120 W. LaSalle Suite 906 South Bend, IN 46601 
Need ride to Exit 12 Ohio Turnpike (Akron> this Friday. Call Bob· 1152 
Men & Women-earn $150 per week or more selling Valeer Home Care Products in the South Bend area. Can continue part-time next fall. Training provided in the Hostess Party and Solicitation sales programs. Call afternoons, except Mondays, or call Saturday mor­nings. Thomas Distributing 256­0547 
Student for light office work & telephone sales-salary & com­mission. Apply 224 W. Jefferson. Corner of Lafayette St. Room 313 
Student for light delivery. Ex­cellent pay. A.A.A. Advertising. Apply 224 W. Jefferson corner of Lafayette St. Room 313 
Need ride-To Chicago this weekend. Call Mary 4537 
Need ride to Pittsburgh area this weekend, April 25. Will share expenses. Call Lossetta 8007 
Need ride to N.Y.C. area (Long Island) first weekend in May. Will share expenses and driving. Call Gregg at 1612 
Part-time job . Freshman ·or Sophomore to become Greyhound campus representative. Call Tom 212'·1807 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE THE CHEAP TRUCK IS BACK OVERSEAS JOBS-Australia, 
offering the lowest prices for Europe, S. America, Africa. Hotel Accomodation lor Friday, baggage to Long Island. Our Students all professions and oc­May 16. Call 6980 Prices are: Trunks-$6, Suitcases­cupations $700 to $3000 monthly. 
$4, Boxes-$3, Bicycles-$6, Golf Expenses paid, overtime, sight­1972 Mercury Monterey 4 Dr. clubs-$3.50. For Information Call seeing. Free information. custom-power-air-gold with vinyl Leo at 1152 -$2 Deposit required. TRANSWORLD RESEARCH top Best offer. Phone 288-1608 Dept. F3, Box 603, Corte Madera, after 5 Calif. 94925
Will do typing-experienced. Call For Sale: Pioneer PL-51 turntable NOW RENTING CAMPUS VIEW
233-8512 with Audio Technica AT -12S APARTMENTS. STILL SOME
•ALWAYS THE BEST IN GAS
cartridge. $180.00 or best offer. CHOICE 1 AND 2 BEDROOM
SALES AND MECHANICAL
Call Ed 1289 or 1487 APARTMENTS AVAILABLE.
WORK NOW AT TOM'S STAN­
CALL 272-1441 FOR IN­
DARD, CORNER OF IRONWOOD
For Sale-1971 Yamaha street bike-FORMATION OR STOP OVER
AND STATE RD. 23. 10 PER
200cc-5 speed, electric start-1972 AND SEE THE MODEL APART­
CENT DISCOUNT TO NO & SMC
Ford Torino-2 drive hardtop -MENT AT 54585 IRISH WAY.
STUDENTS ON ALL PUR­
white vinyl top-Both in very good 
CHASES EXCEPT GAS.
condition 232-6488 ND-SMC Council for the Retarded­Picnic this Saturday, 11:00-3:00 at
Typing, editing, dissertation
Bar witn built in refrigerator, Holy Cross. Kathy-4712
specialists IBM, special symbols.
Beginners golf clubs with carrier, 
Linda's Letters 289-5193
Auto 8-track tape wtih 4-speakers FOR RENT & in-out mount. Needs minor 
Free room in exchange for child
repairs-to highest bidder. Gil 1060 House for Rent for Summer: 4
"" care. Details negotiable-Phone 
bdrm. Excellent location. 287-7981
232-6362

Stereo for Sale Desperately need the money. best Three Bedroom House close to N D. 
Sell your books before the rush.
offer takes all. Steve 1403 May 15 to Aug. 15-carpeted &
Paperbacks & texts. Buying hours 
paneled living room-complete
2:30-3:30 Pandoras Books
Olds' Cutlass '67 small engine, kitchen-washer & dryer-all good mileage, 8 track tape, $500 utilities included $150 per month­
Need help with term papers,
New Remington 12 gauge pump Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004
reports, etc? Write Michiana
magnum-$120 Call 284-4008 or 234­
Reference Seryice for rates and
8679 Furnished apt. 503 W. Jefferson.
details. P.O. Box 6247 South Bend, 
Duplex 3 rooms, second gloor. Gas
Ind. 46615

2 bedroom home 1 mile from NO­Heat. Furnished. 289-6307 or 234­Call 272-9990 0596
Need stuff shipped to Long Island? Call Tom 1728 or Greg 1751-Cheap
Piano for sale by off-campus 2 rooms-Private. $50. Kitchen,
rates

Senior-$100 or best offer. Call Ted rides. 233-1329 
289-1775 

RIDE-A BIKE FOR THE 
FOR RENT: Houses near campus
RETARDEDon Sunday, April 27th
1966 Pontiac Catalina: good for sum mer. Rent low and mileage, excellent parts: needs negotiable. Ideal for summer
Summer storage-Dry, Clean, Safe, 
some repairs $225. Call Jim at 3155 school students or anyone staying
Reasonable. Pick up & deliver at 
or 3157 for the summer. Phone Marty
dorm. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004 
Quirk at 289-3751 Must sell now 2 speakers, turn­
NY Met Club Baggage truck to
table, 80 watt receiver, all Pioneer 1974 12 by 60 Mobile Home located
L.I.-NYC: Call 3007 or 1986 for
equipment, 9 months old. Perfect in Village Green, Mishawaka. Two
information

condition. Price negotiable-Call bedroom furnished (or un­Denny 1052 furnished) $120 per month. Prefer
Last Happy Hour before finals 
12 mo. lease but will consider 9 mo.
Kubiaks Friday 3:30-6:30 Sl.50 per
Stereo-Panasonic Portable-ex­terms. Call eves 259-0051
pitcher. Sponsored by the class of
cellent condition-inexpensive­
77

best offer. Call Mary 7953 CABINS ON LAKE MICHIGAN FOR RENT Only 30 min. from
SHARE hotline-phone 4311 8-12 
campus. GINTARAS RESORT
nightly. completely confidential.
NOTICES 15860 Lake Shore Rd., Union Pier, Mich. 616-469-3298.
ALL YA GOT TO DO IS
II you have never seen a rugby 
WHISTLE! 

game before, don't miss the Need a place tor summer? Fur­
see Humphrey Bogart tonight in
Chicago Lions vs. Notre Dame. nished full houses or single rooms
Casablanca 7, 9, 11 pm Eng. Aud.
Saturday 1:00 Stepan Fields at a discount rate. Walk to cam­
pus. Call 233-2613 

Please, Please return stolen ID's, Take the Greyhound from Notre 
license found in red wallet Fri. Ap 
Dame to Chicago every Friday at House for rent tor next school 
18. You don't need them. I do, 4:40. Two buses return Sunday. year. Fully furnished, w complete Call Tom 272-1807
desperately. To Le Mans Desk or baths, close to campus, S no. 5449 bedrooms. $280 per month. 233-2613 
Summer Storage-For dependable ,service call us! South Bend 1Storage. Free pick up at toom and 
free delivery to dorm. Boxes ss. trunks, foot-locker or bikes $6. Call 233-2613 
LOST & FOUND 
!Found: Strake Jesuit College Prep ring. Call 3795 to identify 
Lost-set of car and room keys on a key ring-Please call 1181 
PERSONALS 
Colleen my love, you are so fine With those radiant eyes and golden locks of thine And those rosy lips of wine you're an angel divine. How I wish you were mine. Happy Birthday, Small Fry 
COLOR Sports and Campus Pictures at Reasonable Prices. Orders being taken Wed. and Thur., 6-8 p.m. 131 Breen-Phillips 
Huts, Happy 21st birthday Zuts 
Eddie, You're the bestest! Happy 21' Blossom 
To Jean Marie: Happy First Communion on the 27th. Love, Roland. 
Don and Ted, Super iob on An Tostal. You really did a number. Enjoyed working 
with you. Steve 
Need your stuff shipped to Boston area? Call Milt 1986 or Bob 1972 for information 
To the Roman Pontiff: Look around. The brand 666 touches all. It burns. Anti Christal Coalition 
Dinsdale-­Where are you? I'm looking for you. 
H. Hog 
OBSERVER 
CLASSIFIEDS 
GET RESULTS 
-----·-------------­

.. 
Bob Stratta; making the grade(s) 
by Rich Odloso always thought of myself as a pitcher first even though I've played third and the outfield when I'm not 
When you're a national television star at the age of pitching. I've hit for pretty good average but not 12 the rest of your life might be anti~limax but Bob much pow<'r until lately." Stralla has managed to avoid that problem. 
Stratta may be one of the main reasons the Irish
Stralla was the tragic hero in the 1967 Little League 
have gotten off to their best start in years with a.t4-7 
World &•ries when his Chicago Roseland North learn 
record but the 6-2 junior is quick to mention the rest
Iosito West Tokyo 4-1 in the finals ushering in an era 
of the team for his pitching success especially the
of Orit>ntal domination. Bob was the starting pitcher 
infield. "They're all seniors and theyreallyknowone
for Hoseland. "Some guy this high hit a homer off 
another and play together well. Shortstop is
mt•," he says now holding his hand at his knee. The 
Pspecially important and Jimmy Smith has just been 
SPri<'s was not a total failure for Slratta as he no-hit 
great. Wt•'ve gotten some left-handed pitching this
Bola. Spain in the opening round. 
~·ear," he adds, "Bob Hughes and Don Wolfe have 
''Going to Williamsport was no big thing then, we been big additions to our team." 
just worried about winning every game. But af­
80-year young Coach Jake Kline has been a big
tt•rward W<'ll some of the learn got pretty big heads 
factor also according to Stratta, "Some people who
about it." Prison and drugs entered into the later life 
don-I know him may say he's too old but he knows his
of somt• of these grade school Hall of Famers but 
baseball. I saw some of these so~alled smart, young
st·hoolwork and baseball continued to be paramount 
l'oaches in the CICL last summer and he does
for Bob. 

t•verything they do. He seems to be getting better
Ov<'r Ihe last two years at Notre Dame he's won ten with age too."
nf his last eleven decisions and hit nearly .400. Last summl'r with Peoria of the Central Illinois Collegiate 
"Another key to our success thus far is the at­IA•ague, which has produced many major leagures 
titude," says S!ratta. "It's just been great and including Mike Schmidt and Buzz Capra, Stratta led 
everyone is a part of it. There's no class distinctions, lht• l<'ague with a 1.96 E.R.A. Off the field he was 
the freshmen are just like seniors. If we can just stay ,·alediclorian of his class at Rich Central High School 
consistent and avoid any losing streaks we've got a good shot for a bid."
m suburban Chicago and has maintained a place on the l'>l'an's l.isl as a Notre Dame pre-med student. The Irish have their biggest ganies of the year 
llnlike many young pitchers Slratta doesn't worry coming up, games that will be crucial to their NCAA about his breaking pitches as much as his fastball. aspirations. "We've got Michigan up there Friday "I'm mainly a curve ball pitcher, curve and slider. and Michigan State here on Tuesday, they're two of I've gol lo worry mainly about my fastball-first the best in the Big Ten. I've never pitched against a gelling a good one consistently and then getting it Big Ten team andTm looking forward to it," saysover." Perhaps from throwing so many curves Bob Stratta. Batting against him is something no batter doesn't have roo much trouble hitting them. "I've will ever look forward to with pleasure. 
BOB STRATTA'S pitching has been a key factor in what has been one
Powerful Michigan squad 
of NO's finest start in years (Photo by Tom Lose) 
shuts out ND netmen 12-0 
by John Vincent winning streak and put his mark at season and was also a member of 14-1. the All-American team. 
*Observer
Yesterday was not a good day for In second singles, Notre Dame's Michigan's Jerry Karzen man­Notre Dame tennis. The Irish werP. captain John Carrico was over­handled Ron Inchauste in fourth shut out for the ftrst time all season powered by MU's Eric Friedler 6-singles, 6-1, 6-2. Inchauste, like by a powerful Michigan team s-o in 3, s-o. The loss snapped Carrico's Carrico had a four-game winning the Athletic and Convocation modest four-game winning streak skein going into the match. The Center. ND is now 12-3. and put his record at 9-6. Last loss left his record at 11-4. 
The afternoon began on a bad season, Friedler teamed with Notre Dame's Brian Hainline 



Sports
note when the Wolverines were Amaya to win the Big Ten doubles was close, but not close enough as over an hour late in arriving. After title and he personally was the Big he lost to Jeff Miller 6-3, 6-3, in a extensive warm-ups the match got Ten number three singles fifth singles match. Miller was the underway at about 3:30. champion. number five singles champion in 
In first singles, Notre Dame's In a hard fought contest, MU's the Big Ten last year. With the loss star left-bander Randy Stehlik ·Fred DeJesus defeated Chris Kane yesterday, Hainline's record now dropped a 6-4, 6-3 decision to in number three singles, 4-6, 6-1, 6-stands at 9-6. Michigan's Victor Amaya. o. It was only the fourth loss of the Notre Dame's Juan Inchauste Amaya, 6-7 junior raised his record season for Kane against 11 wins. found rough going in sixth singles to 5-3 with the victory, a victory DeJesus, a powerful right-hander as he lost to Buddy Gallagher 6-3, 
6-2. Inchauste who was 25-3 last
which sn;appedllfiii.ISit.ehill:iikl'sllil••·w~as :_::?ts~ qg~:!~r-f:li:t l;st
1 year now has a record of 8-3. 
by Tom Kruczek will meet lliinois State again at theThe tandem of Amaya and The Notre Dame golfer's case Mid-American tournament, and
DeJesus was too much for Carrico 
for an NCAA at large invitation the NCAA independent bid will be
and Kane as they lost 6-2, 6-4, in 
seems to be getting stronger each riding on that confrontation.
first doubles action. The loss left 
week. With just two major tour­Jeff Burda once again led the
the Irish pair's record at 9-6. 

ney's left on the schedule, the Irish scoring for the Irish. The seniorIn a very close match that went appear to be headed for the NCAA from Aptos, California finished in
to three sets, MU's Friedler and 
national tournament in June. 9th place out of 144 golfers with a
Karzen defeated Stehlik and Mike 
The golfers most recent success 233 total. Burda turned in rounds
O'Donnell 3-6, 6-3, 7-5. It was only 
was last weekend at the Kepler of 77-78-78 in the 54-hole event on
the second loss for Notre Dame's 
Invitational in Columbus, Ohio. the Scarlet Course at Ohio State.
combination, their first loss 
There Notre Dame finished in 8th Paul Koprowski and Rich Knee
coming at the hands of Eastern 
place out of a field of 24 that in­followed with 241s. John Delaney,
Michigan earlier in the week. 

cluded all of the Big Ten teams, in his first starting assignment of
They have 12 victories. 

and most of the major in­the year fmished with 245 thatIn third doubles, Hainline and dependents in the area. The 8th included a second round 79.
Tony Bruno lost to Brad Holland 
place finish was important, in that As a team, Notre Dame finished
and Jim Holman 6-2, 6-4. Holman 
..~.,~, it enabled the Irish to beat all of the the first day with a 402, five-man
teamed with Jerry Karzen to take 
·:..-. independents from District 4 ex­total. The second day was two
number three doubles in the Big 
cept Illinois State. Notre Dame strokes higher, but the Irish came
Ten last year. Bruno and Hainline 
storming back with a final round
are now 6-4. 

397 that pushed them into the 8thThe match yesterday was only NDSailing Club place finish, just five strokes
. 
the first in a four game home stand' behind Bowling Green and Miami
for the Irish. They face Iowa at 
of Ohio, both who were at theCHRIS KANE dropped a tough match to the Wolverine's Fred 2:00p.m. on the Courtney Tennis finishes fifth NCAA national event last season.
DeJesus as the Irish suffered a 12-0 defeat yesterday afternoon CPhoto courts on Friday. Admission is 
Next on the Irish slate is the
by Tom Lose) free. 
The Notre Dame sailors jour­Purdue Invitational on Friday.
neyed to Ohio State this past The Irish will have a chance toweekend for a delayed running of meet with 3 Big Ten teams, alongthe Stroh's Cup. This regatta is with Bowling Green, Miami of Ohioheld annually in Detroit on the
Buckeyes down LaCrosse tea1n 
and Ball State, who Notre DameDetroit River and sponsored by the upset at the Kepler.
Stroh's Brewery. 
After Purdue, the golfers willby Gregg Bangs 
quarter to tie the score as Ed game. Included in the eleven schools travel directly to the campus of
Swanson fired one past Irish goalie Fogerty tied it up, once again off present were nationally ranked Miami of Ohio and Houston Wood
-· It must've been sweet for the Jim Scarola. The second quarter a Meares feed, but Jim Windle put Ohio Wesleyan University and Golf Course to compete in the Mid­Ohio State Lacrosse team was all Irish, as ND outscored Ohio State back in front less than 30 Florida State University. Also American Invitational. This is ayesterday. Last year at Colombus, by a margin of 4-1 to take a 5-2 seconds later. The Buckeyes present was Penn State, another 36-hole event that ranks as thethey went into the last minute of halftime lead. Kevin Fogerty added one more quick one and the tough out-of district school. A most prestigious of the invitational
the game protecting a one goal started things off when he took a Irish found themselves two down. good effort was turned in by Jon tourneys. Last year Notre Damelead only to see Rich Caron of Joe Meares feed and quicksticked Joe Meares fed Bob Thibodeau to Dave Constants, and a 783
Makielski, finsihed in loth place with
Notre Dame score with 7 seconds it into the net. Tom McHugh cut the lead down to one and with 3 Buzz Reynolds resulting in a fifth total behind the co-champions Ohio
left to send the game into over­scored a minute later when his minutes left, Tarnow tied it up. place finish against the stiff State and Ball State. Low for thetime, where the Irish won it. outside blast deflected off a The first two overtimes were competition. The final standings Irish was Mike Kistner with a 78-76
This year, the script was pretty Buckeye defenseman. Rich Caron scoreless but Jim Windle put it were Ohio Wesleyan University, 154.much the same, but the ending then scored two goals within a away two minutes into the sudden first; Florida State University, With the golfers now reachingcame out differently as the minute to give the Irish their 3 death with a long blast from just second; and Purdue, third. their peak, and with last weeksBuckeyes defeated the Notre point halftime margin. inside the restraining line. This weekend the Notre Dame performance that Coach Noel
club sudden "B"
Dame lacrosse in If the Irish dominated the second Both the "A" and teams Sailing Club will host the Midwest O'Sullivan refers to as "the finest
death overtime, 1Q-9. quarter, the third quarter was all have action slated for this up­Women's Championship Regatta. 
performance in Notre Dame golfThe two teams traded goals in Buckeye. They scored 3 goals in cpming weekend. The "A" squad This regatta will be held on St. history" the team will participate
the first quarters. Steve Tarnow the period and held the Irish r.:~eets Hillsdale College on Sunday Joseph's Lake, Saturday and in the last two invitationals of the put the Irish on the4 board scoreless. State took the lead in and the "B" team plays Hope Sunday, April 26 and 27. The year, and hope that the NCAAwithin the ftrst minute. Ohio State the fourth quarter when Swanson College at home on Saturday at racing will start at 9 a.m. and selection committee is keeping anwaited until tbe last minute of the scored his second goal of the 1:00 on Stepan field.· 
continue throughout the d~y. eye open to their feats on the links. 




