

FOrd recommends tax reductions 
WASHINGTON AP President Ford proposed Monday $28 also agree to the $395 million spending ceiling. 
billion in permanent tax cuts to take effect in the 1976 election year -but only if Congress agrees to cut federal spending an equal amount. 
The pain drew fire from two powerful Democratic House committee chairman who said they are developing alter­native tax cut recommendations. 
Of the cuts in Ford's proposal, $20.7 billion for business. Reductions for individuals would be aobut $4 billion more than relief from the 1975 tax rebates and reductions. 
House Discusses Cuts 
The House Ways and Means Committee is to begin its discussions on tax cut proposals on Tuesday, and Chairman AI Ullman said Monday night that the committee drafts likely will bear little resemblence to Ford's. 
The Oregon Democrat said that dependin~ on which of the staff-drawn alternatives are adopted, tax reductions for next year could range from $8 billion to 12 billion -ex­tending the eight-month, $8 billion tax cut put into effect this year. 
TflePresident'saddress, delivered from the Oval Office, was televised live on ABC, but CBS and NBC declined, citing equal time regulations regarding presidential can­didates. 
Spending Ceiling 
In his speech, Ford insisted the tax reductions "be tied 
together in one package" with a federal spending ceiling of 
$395 billion for the 1977 fiscal year beginning next Oct. 1. 
"It could be dangerous and irresponsible to adopt one without the other" Ford said. He said the actions would be 
a "first step ... toward balancing the federal budget within 
three years." 
Hugh Scott, R-Pa., the Senate minority leader, said 
Congress "can earn this reduction for the taxpayers by 
accepting the fact that spending has got to be curtailed. 
Otherwise, a tax reduction bill is a candidate for veto." 
Possible Veto 
Treasury Secretary Willaim E. Simon told reporter Ford would veto a tax reduction bill for 1975 if Congress failed to 
In response to criticism 
S£'nior Starr Heporter "Inflation in publishing as been more rapid than in other university 
In response to criticism of the purchasing areas, while the Memorial Library over the past library has retained its relative two vears, the administration has position in the budget," Burtchaell incr~ased the endowment fund for explained. tlw library to approximately "To increase the library's share $1,01i0,000. of the budget," said Burtchaell, 
·'The endowment has been in­··we would have had to hold faculty ert•ased from $412,000 to over one­salaries back, and we just aren't million dollars, by funds made willing to do that." available by the administration last September," stated David Excf.'ssive Spf.'nding Sparks, director of University libraries. One area of spending singled out 
Sparks added that an additional in the COUP report as being $171,000 raised in the annual possibly excessive is that of alumni appeal, had been tran­periodicals and serials. sferred last week into the en­"We spend more for serials than 
dowment to bring the total to over for any other category of pur­$1.25 million. chase," stated the report. "They The Memorial Library was first now total 11,300 titles or 23.4 titles 
criticized in a report of the Com­mittee on University Priorities COUP in 1973. 
Library Hanked Low 

Noting that the library had expanded significantly since its opening in 1963, the report stated, "The library has had difficulty keeping abreast of its academic peers in the past years." 
Among the 84 libraries belonging to the Association of. Research Libraries our library's rank is so low that the possibility of losing ARL membership is real," the report said. 

According to David Sparks,The North Central Accreditation director of university libraries,Association <NCAA) reiterated the Memorial Library has reducedCOUP findings in a report stem­its periodical readings by 10ming from a 1974 study. 
percent as a money-savingThe NCAA report declared, "The measure.
Memorial Library ranks near the I astl in :;pending among research per faculty member." libraries in volumes held, new "Serials can be borrowed easily volumes added annually ... and in and quickly; we should be cautious total dollars spent for the library." about buying serials whcih are not 
University Provost Fr. James T. used very often," the report warns. Burtchaell said the primary cause According to Sparks the library of the library's deficiencies is the has significantly reduced its rapid inflation in the publishing purchases in the costly areas of 
Ford said that without reductions in federal spending the 1977 spending in fiscal year 1977 could easily total more than $420 billion without adding a single new federal program.
He said he will propose specific spending reductions to 

Congress in January. 
Chairman Brock Adams of the House Budget Committee said he thought Ford's pro;>osal was morP political than 
realistic." Cuts to Hurt Programs 
The Washington Democrat said there is not way of making on the scale proposed by Ford without cutting into such programs as Social Security, veteran's pensions, food stamps and education programs, along with the defense budget. 
"What he's saying sounds very good until you look at it in the cold light of day," Adams said. "You don't give away all your revenues before you start figuring your needs." 
He said his committee will begin drafting the final resolution on the new budget on Oct. 20 and suggested it might be tailored to include a $12 billion tax cut for calendar year 1976. 
Ford said his tax cut proposals would permanently reduce taces for a family of four with a $14,000 annual in­come by $412,or 27 per cent from 1974 rates. Compared with the reduced 1976 tax rate, the reduction would he less. 
The 1975 tax reductions would expire Dec. 31 unless action 
is taken to extend them. 
Ford called on Congress to raise the personal tax exemption for all taxpayers to $1,000 from $750, to lower personal income tax rates and to make the standard deduction for single taxpayers $1,800 for married couples, $2,500. 
The President's twenty-minute address followed a series 
of economic policy conferences during the weekend and 
early Monday. 
Before the speech, White House Press Secretary Ron Nessen told newsmen, "There's been some discussion with a few key members of Congress" about the contents of the President's speech. 
In Omaha last week, Ford said he was weighing a con­tinuation of the re<:ession-fighting tax reductions but in­dicated he would want to tie such a move to further assurances that Congress will keep federal spending under control. 
., """ .l!D ;!!~pies 
endowment funds 
He pointed out that the NCAA philosophy collection, though it is 
"The number of serials has been reduced in the past by about 10 per cent." he noted, "With an estimated savings of about $30,000." 
He added that the Memorial Library can obtatin journals through the center of Research Libraries in Chicago. 
Burtchaell explained that the purchasing of periodicals is now more con trolled because the money comes out of individual department allotments. Therefore, each department has an incentive to control ex­penditures in both periodicals and books," Burtchaell said. 
In the combined fund employed in past years, the one department was responsible for the proper use of the money. 
Solutions Gradual 

The ultimate improvement of the library will be a slow process, "which depends onour ability ro increase the indowment," Burt­chaell stated. 
He also noted the problem of underbudgeting cited by the COUP report is not one to which there is an easy remedy. 
"The administration has put financial undergrading under us," said Sparks," so we can do the job." 
"We don't intend to stop now, however," he said noting that the funds collected this year in the alumni appeal will again go to the library. 
Reacting to the comparison in the COUP report of the Memorial Library to others in its class, Sparks stated he does not believe that the relationship between libraries was of key importance. 
"What is important is not the library's size," explained Sparks, "but whether its collection is adequate to support the teaching and research undertaking in the University." 
report was concerned with the disparity between the teacing goals and the books on the shelf, not our relationship to other libraries." 
Burtchaell, agreed with Sparks' view, noting that Notre Dame offers Ph.D's in 30 fields as compared to possibly 70 fields at some other universities. Therefore, ND does not need to purchase books in certain areas. 
The fact can distort the overall figures on book collections, Burt­chaell explained. 
In addition Burtchaell said, "There are some purchases that 

aren't catalogued yet. We have hundreds of thousands of items that don't show on the records." 
Faculty Give Opinions 
Several faculty members felt that the library's collection in their particular area of study was adequate. 
Prof. John Oesterle, acting chairman of the Philosophy Department, felt that im­provements could be made in the adequate. 
"It's adequate, but it could stand some improvements in terms of more books that are needed ",he stated. 
In the area of economics the library's collection is "reasonably complete," according to Bill l)avisson. 
"The collection is adequate in view of the scope and nature of our graduate and undergraduate programs," said Davisson, who is in charge of book purchasing for the economics department. 
''I could obviously order more books each year, however, no 
matter how lar~e the budget became," he added. 

Sparks voiced optimism about the future improvement of the ­Memorial Library, calling the increased endowment "the most significant thing which has hap­pened to us." 
"We have made giant strides iJ1 t~e direction of improvement," Sparks concluded. 

Tuesday, October 7, 1975
the observer 



warld briefs 
NEWARK, N.J. (AP)-A man armed with two steak knives ~as arrested Saturday night in the Hotel Robert Treat after threatemng to kill President Ford!, who had left the hotel a half-hour earlier, police said Monday. 
James Speller 33 of East Orange, was charged l'lionday by federal authoriti~s with threatening to kill the President. ::~ will be arraigned before a U.S. Magistrate here Tuesday. 
NASSAU Bahamas <AP) -A Milwaukee man who admitted killing thr~e fellow tourists because they were ."th_e angels of Lucifer," was granted an indefinite delay Monday m his sche~~led hanging after an appeal was filed by the U.S. Embassy, offiCials said. 
The decision by Darrell Bolle, Bahamian minister of home af­fairs came 13 hours before Michiah Shobek, 22, was to be hanged. The ~xecution had been set for 8 a.m. Tuesday. 
WASHINGTON <APl -Secretary of State Henry A Kissinger 
will visit China later this month to review Washington-Peking 
relations and prepare for President Ford's visit next month, the St­
ate Department said Monday. 

an campus t:aday 
4:30 pm·­
5:15 pm·· 
6:30pm·­7 pm-­
7 pm-­7:30pm-­
, 
7:30pm-­
7:30pm-­8 pm-­
II pm-· seminar, "monosomy is zea mays: a new tool for genomic analysis," by david wever, ill. state univ., rm. 278, gal. life science center aud., sponsored by the biology dept. 

evensong, vespers, log chapel. 
meeting, ladies of notre dame, library aud. 
dinner, evening at st. mary's for friends of the college, dining haiL sponsored by public relations dept. 
film, "the stepford wives,"· eng. aud., admission $1, also 9 and 11 pm. 
lecture, "corporate social responsibility,'' by john me dermott, director of public relations, u.s. steel corp., carroll hall, sponsored by dept. of business administ­ration and economics. 
computer course, "ibm utilities by example," rm. 115, computing center, also oct. 9. 
meeting, charismatic prayer, Iafortune rathskeller. 
lecture, "national purpose and u.s. foreign policy," by steward hannon, vice-president of potomac and pacific group, wash., d.c., rm. 1201, memorial library, sponsored by institute for international studies. 
mass, celebrated by fr. griffin, grotto. 
midnight--birthday party, for one year of darby's place, Iafortune basement. 
Tests foil speculation 



'Single 

LOS ANGELES <AP) -Only one gun was used in the assas­sination of Sen. Robert F. Ken­nedy in 1968, a panel of fire­arms experts reported Monday. 
The seven ballistics experts said that working independently they had all arrived at the same conclusion after exam­ining the bullets taken from the assassination scene and firing 
new bullets from the .22-caliber Iver Johnson revolver of con­victed assassin Sirhan B. Sir-
University installs new WATS line 
by Jill Truitt Staff Reporter 

Notre Dame's use of SUVON, an intercity telephone network, became effective yesterday. 
SUVON functions as a WATS line providing the intercity trunking necessary to connect the univer­sity campus switchboard throughout Indiana. 
Notre Dame will have nine SUVON tie lines to handle in­coming and outgoing calls. These lines will be directly tied to the University's Centrex switchboard. 
Faculty and staff members may use SUVON for university related business only. 
"This system is for business and educational use only. All personal calls are prohibited on it," said Brother Kieran Ryan, assistant vice president of business affairs. 
He added, "No students have acess to it unless in an official University position." 
SUVON is the Voice Network of the Indiana Higher Education Telecommunications System (IHETSl. 
This multi-media, statewide system began in 1967 by a State Legislature act. IHETS would interconnect the main campuses and the regional campuses of the State Universities, according to this act. 
Notre Dame gained membership into the system through a recent amendment to the act. This amendment added 34 private and independent colleges and universities to IHETS. 
Funds for the SUVON calling service appropriated from the General Fund of the State of Indiana. The University pays only fixed monthly service charges for the nine SUVON tie lines. 
IHETS regulations require all student dormitory and public access phones be restricted from SUVON access. 
"If the legislature gets rumors that students are abusing the system. the funding will be cut off." Ryan emphasized. 

gun murdered RFK' 
Since the assassination some people have believed Sirhan did not act alone and some ballis­tics experts who studied photo­graphs have said a second gun was used. The Los Angeles Po­lice Department said only one gun was involved. 
"We find no substantive evi­dence to indicate more than one gun," the experts said in a report read by Superior Court· Judge Robert A. Wenke. 
Sirhan, a Palestinian, was 
convicted of the assassination 
,.................................................................,..
I N-.D. STUDENT UNION i 
I & PARTNERS RAINBOW ~ 
~ I
I Proudly Present ~ 



i JETHRO I 
~ Ii TULL I
I ~
I I
IN CONCERT
i SATURDAY, NOV. 1 i I 8:00 P.M. ACC I 
~ GOOD SEATS STILL AVAilABLE. ~ ~ TICKETS: 6.50, 6.00 ~ I NOW ON SALE ~ 
!..........................................................................................................t 
and is serving a life sentence at San Quentin Prison -his origi­nal death sentence having been voided by the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling against capital punishment. 
But critics questioned wheth­er adequate ballistics tests had been performed. 
The gun used by Sirhan was refired four times Sept. 26. The bullets were retrieved from a barrel of water and were used in the study by seven experts that led to the conclusion an­nounced Monday. 
SIR RICHARD'S 

SMC women-HAIR STYLING-No mer, 
129 DIXIEWAY SOUTH 
(Across from Randall's Inn) 
Closed 
Mondays RICH CODDENS UNISEX 277-0734 


I I • 
I 
I 
I 
'

needs people 




to write features to do page designing to write news 
Anybody interested in joining our staff is urged to come see us any day this week. 
Come to our office, fourth floor LaFortune, between 1 & 5 or 7 & 10 pm. 



Gunman seizes hostages in N.Y.C.; demands Hearst 
NEW YORK <AP)-A man armed with a shotgun and claiming to be a Symbionese Siberation Army member seized 10 hostages in a Manhattan bank Monday and demanded the release of newspaper heiress Patricia Hearst. 
Some two hours later, three of the hostages, two men and a woman, were released unharmed. Deputy police commissioner Frank McLoughlin said the gun­man told him their release was a "1-(ood faith gesture." 
A gunshot was fired inside the bank, but police said they did not know if anyone was hurt. 
However, a hostage inside the bank reached by telephone said the others being held were "all right, but a little upset. No one has been hurt." 
The ~unman. also reached in the bank, was rambling in his con­versation, and one of the released hosta~es, bank Pmployee John Moriarty, described him as "apparently unstable." 
Thl' gunman said it was too late ror him to turn back and t­IH·eatl'lll'd to kill the hostages. ·•t;iving up is totally ridiculous," lw said. 
liP identified himself to The Associatt>d Press as "Cat" and said hl' wanted the release of Miss lll•arst. SLA members William and l•:mily Harris and "the Japanese girl." apparently referring to WPIHiy. Yoshimura, arrested with 1\liss Hearst. 
The man also demanded $10 million in gold. "Where we're ~oing we can't 
Memorial Mass tonight at Grotto 
Today is the first anniversary of the death of Hobert Hieman, a Stanford junior who was killed in a traffic accident last year. 
The 5:10 p.m. mass in the KPenan-Stanford Chapel will be offered for him this evening. Prayers will also be offered for him at J<'r. Hobert Griffin's mass in tlw (;rotto tonight at 11:00 p.m. 
ND Ladies host law discussion 
"Women and the Law" will be tlw topic of a panel discussion sponsorPd by Ladies of Notre l>anH' this Tuesday at 7:~0 p.m. in the library auditorium. 
Dr. Marsha Kimmel will speak on "sexism in textbooks," Deane Planeaux will discuss "women and credit" and Mrs. Janet Allen will speak about "women in govern­ment service." 
Cor;Joral Loretta Stickley will discuss "women in law enfor­cement." The panel discussion is open to all. 

Time in a bottle 
HOSEDALE. Ind. <APl -A 
young woman who put her 
name and address in a bottle 
and tossed it into a creek 13 
years ago has received an an­
swer. 
Donnella Crane was 12 years old when she and her brother put messages in separate bot­tles, sealed them -and tossed them into a tributary of Big Haccoon Creek near their home here. 
Last Friday, she received a 
letter from Steve Bolby, who 
said he found her bottle along a 
bank of the Wabash River at 
Vincennes, 70 miles away. 
The Ob~erver i~ published Monday through Friday and weekly during the wmmer ~ession. except during exams and vacation periods The Observer IS published by the students of the Univ of Notre Dame and Sl Mary's College Subscrtplton~ may be purchased tor 10 dollars per semester 118 dol tar~ per year l from The Ob ~erver, Box Q. Notre Dame, In dtana. 46556 Second Class postage paid. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
spend paper money," he said. At first it was believed two gunmen were in the bank. Later, however, the hostages confirmed there was only one. 
McLoughlin said the lone in­truder tried to give the impression in telephone talks with police that he was accompanied by a second man. 
Originally taken as hostages when the seige began about 3 p.m. were six men and four women. The remaining hostages were four employees and three customers. 
At various times, the gunman demanded from anywhere from $1 million to $40 million in gold and a ~etaway plane to take him to some undisclosed destination. 
The bank, a Bankers Trust branch, is on Sixth Avenue and 18th 
Street in Greenwich Village. Hundreds of police swarmed through the area, traffic was det­oured and a police helicopter hovered overhead. Thousands of spt•ctators jammed the area. 
Police were trying to talk to the man over a bullhorn, and at one point. a policeman crawled to the bank's door and attached a rope to the handle. 
"Don't get nervous," a policeman advised over the bullhorn. "but we want to make sure you can hear us. Don't panic. We're just opening the door." 
With that, police tugged on the rope and the door flew open. There was no response from inside. 
Miss Hearst, Miss Yoshimura and the Harrises are in jail in California on various charges. 
In Hedwood City, Calif., where Miss Hearst is being held, San Mateo County Sheriff John McDonald said he had been notified of the gunman's dimands. 
He said no special security 
precautions were taken. 
"We've got a pretty secure jail, so there isn't much else we need to do," he said. 
Miss Yoshimura was to appear in court at 2 p.m. PDT in Oakland to enter a plea on a charge of illegal possession of explosives. However, she was not brought into court at the specified hour, and court officials offered no im­mediate explanation for the delay. 
In New York, a police spokesman at the scene said the man entered the bank at 2:55p.m. and told everyone to go to the rear of bank. "He never asked for money," said the spokesman. 
The spokesman said he didn't 
believe robbery was the motive but 
refused to speculate on a motive. 
In one of several interviews with 
the news media, the gunman said 
his "main demand" was the 
release of Miss Hearst. _ 
If the demands weren't met, he said "We're killing everybody. Why not? And myself too...I might not kill them all. I might just kill the males and let the females live. I don't like killing chicks." 
The gunman, who insisted he had a male accomplice, said: "We're over the bridge behind me and now there's no place left to go but forward, you know. I have to do my trip." 
The taking of the hostages follows by two days the release of a purported SLA communique claiming the terrorist group still exists and would prove its existence. The FBI had said after thedepartureof Miss Hearst and the Harrises that there were no other 
members of the SLA. 
Ifyou ignore it, maybe it'll go away... 

...and other famous cancerlegends. 
In an all-out effort to avoid the truth, people have cre­ated some pretty imaginative phrases. 
Like the ever-popular "What I don't know can't hurt me." And "Never sick a day in my life." You hear that a lot. Especially from people who are finally forced to see their doctors. When it's often too late. 
Logic doesn't work. Facts don't seem to sink in. We have no recourse but to fight fire with fire with some more meaningful phrases. 
Like "1 in 3 is being saved now. 1 in 2 could be saved if people went for checkups regularly." And "more than 200,000 were saved last year. Regu­lar checkups can help save thousands more." 
What are you waiting for? Don't you want to enjoy the peace of mind that comes from knowing you're doing the best thing for your health? 
If it's slogans you want, we can give them to you. We'll do anything to try to make cancer a legend in its own time. But we need your help. 
Help yourself with a checkup l 
It's what you don't know that can hurt you l 
American CancerSociety ~ 
Tuesday, October 7, 
the observer 
3 




THE POSTER PLACE 
100 11 x17 POSTERS o·nly $10.00 


Sit up





& take notice. 
Your newspaper needs you. 
0:: 
LLJ 
~ 


0:: 0 
Q.. 
~-=




All these 
vital people Lw-~R,--T-E--RS and more are needed by, The Observer. 
If you have the least bit 
of a desire to participate, 

come check us out. 
Everyday this week, you 

can come by the office, 
located on fourth floor 

LaFortune, between 1 & 5 
or 7 & 10 pm, and talk. 


, 
1 
I 
' 
r I 





The Observer 
on independentsrudentnewspoper 
Founded November 3, 1966 

Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Manager 
EDITORIAL BOARD AI Rutht>rford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; KPn Girouard, NPws Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil, Features Editor; Chris Smith, Photo Editor 
N~w• 29~J~I~7~1S~------~8~u•~·n~~~.,~·~18~J-7~47~1------------~-1 
Tuesday, October 7, 1975 

Cammenlary 
' Soap Box Q 
pat hanifin 
people to take credit for their own writmg. In­There is a place in London called Hyde Park cidently this standard is in line with many otherwhere anyone having something to say can set up a campus and non-campus papers.
soapbox and say it. Other people passing through 3. Letters must be interesting and or amusing tothe park can stop to listen to the speaker, perhaps at least some readers. The primary purpose of thepicking up some good ideas. If they find him letters column is an exchange of ideas about current amusing they can laugh (with him or at him). If topics. Secondly, but also validly, letters can servethey do not like what he is saying they can pass on to to amuse the readers between bites of an all -too­
another speaker, or leave the park, or stick around and heckle him a bit. Or they can get thier own often depressing lu~h­soapboxes and sound off themselves. 
4. Letters should at least avoid obscenity,
Recently, I as editorial editor have been catching viciousness and personal attacks. 
some flak about some of the letters we have run, 5. Letters should be as concise as possible. We notably one headlined "SMC Turkey?". Catching try to run as many letters as we can and giveflak is an occupational hazard of the job but this priority to those which are concise, well-written and 
seems a good time to explain The Observer's letter concerned with subject current general
some or 
policy in more detail than it usually gets. interest. 
I would like to see the letters column, and to a These are the minimal standards. Of course we certain extent the whole editorial page, as a sort of hope that all our letters will go beyond them and be printed Hyde Park-a place where everyone in the tightly reasoned, scintillating, witty, and insightful 
University community may sound off about what masterpieces.concerns or amuses them. There are however some But if you find a letter disagreeable to you, like standards: the Hyde Park bystander, have several options.
1. Letters must have signatures and addresses. You can laugh at it <not with it). You can dismiss it 
This allows us to verify, if need be, that the author as idiotic and read something else. You can write a 
really is a member of the community and it reply exposing it as fallacious and ignorant. If you
eliminates those letters which ·are so vicious that find a letter insulting, you can recall Eleanor the author does not dare have his name anywhere Roosevelt's remark that "no one can insult youaround it. without your permission" and ignore it. Or you can ~ 
2. Signatures will be withheld if !he writer write a scathing and witty reply. Just respect one­requests it. This is perhaps our most controversial rule of the park: don't try to pull the other fellow off 
policy .Some people forlwhatever reason do not w1sh his soapbox. We are not going to censor everythingtheir names to appear in public. While a fear of which might possibly offend someone somewhere. reprisals, whether from angry administrators or 
To be consistent with this talk of free expression I students, seems entirely unfounded in fact we will will end by inviting replies from my gentle readers. respect the writer's wishes because we want to Personally, when I get up on a soapbox, I wear a 
maximize free discussion. But we do encourage flak jacket. 


P.O. Box Q 
gothic novel would be but undertaken to shelter and protect a unknowns. Indeed, we are to be t­tiny minority of Gays, by allowing hanked for our inducements upon them to practice their own sexualAfter AIL man to advance ever forward the beliefs, while offering us the 
frontiers of his knowledge. choice of hiding in the closet or However, if your thanklessness being thrown off campus. is to persist, we may be forced to Heterosexuals, come out of 
your closets and into the open! Let
We? once again advance the culture of
What Are your feelings become known to the
• Western Civilization. 
University and to the Ad­Affectionately, ministration officials. Let themAttila the Hun know that you won't take thisl>rar Editor: Other Names withheld by Request standing up, but lying-l:lown,It is with the utmost insult to the together!
reputations of all fine citizens that Someday we hope to reach theyour journal was seen referring to point where we too will be accepted
barbarians as "insensitive, coarse as normal people in the Notre or unmannerly" in your last Equal Time! Dame community, rather that a Wednesday's edition. We have bunch of straights. Someday we 
been selected by a group of our hope to have an office in LaFor­peers to endeavor to, repair the tune, where we can offer coun­damage done to our reputations by seling to f~llow heterosexuals.
Drar Editor:

your vain defamatory attempts. Someday we won't have to sneak in
Who are the heterosexual
Some examples of the sensit­and out of dormitories in the wee
students of Notre Dame? For
ivity, sophistication and man­hours, skulking like criminal 
many years we have been
nerliness of those whom you would perverts, while our gay brethren
struggling to gain acceptance from 
!refer to in an insulting manner as violate parietals with the blessings 
the Notre Dame community and 
of the University.
barbarians are: 
the Administration. We have had
I. The· sacking of Rome with a hide heterosexuality,
to our Naml' )\'ithheld by Request
concomitant redistribution of because the stigmata of such 
wealth to the proletariat; brands us as perverts and contrary 
2. 
The introduction into Europe to the Christian spirit in the eyes of the observer of the bubonic plague in a University officials and many in Night Editor --Margaret Maryprimitive but gloriously laudable the community. Waltman attempt to .control population; What we believe in and Assistant Night Editor --Maureen 

3. 
The heralding into Europe of a practice is banned by University Flynn bright new age of darkness; policy and this ban is enforced by a Layout Staff --Jim Commyn, Jim 


4.The1discovery of the New World pathetic parietals system. Stevens, AI Rutherford by Leif Ericson. Parietals discriminate against us, Day Editor __ Don Reimer, Jim 
Thus, the historical sensitivity and favor the Gays on campus. Eder, Ken Girouard, Bob Mader and sophistication of the bar­This is totally unfair and in direct Copy Reader __ Kathy Mills 
violation of our civil rights.
barians is not to be demeaned. We Parietals are designed especially Editorials --Ken Girouardhave been instrumental in the to prohibit heterosexual activity Features --Tom O'Neilevolution of Western Civilization. 
during the "proscribed hours, but Spo':'s --Bill ~ri~k, Ernie Torriero For wherever we appear, a result­what about homosexual activity? Typists --Ne1l VIII, Mary Celeste, ing socio-cultural change spurs If the University had a policy Mary Tobin, Karen Hinks, Terri man on into new advances in banning such gay behavior, you IHarlan !>Cience and culture. Were it not can be sure that the Gays would I Compugraphic --Mel and Steinyfor the catalyzing influences of the 
scream about civil rights. But on Ad Layout --Tom Whelan barbarians, gothicism and the the contrary, the University has I Night Controller --Dave Rust 
seriausIys faI k s !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
It's a Free Country 

art buchwald 

WASHINGTON--I came home the other night from work, and I 
saw a man sitting on my stoop stemming open my mail. "Hey, what the heck are you doing?" I demanded. He took out his wallet and flashed a card. "I'm from the CIA. I'm 
just checking to see if you're getting any letters from the Iron Curtain countries." "You're not supposed to open people's mail," I said. "That's illegal." 
He looked at me and sad, "Sometimes in this business you have to do illegal things to save a legal democratic form of government. We have to know who is planning to overthrow our institutions. We don't like it. But the other side is playing hardball." 
"But what's that got to do with my mail? And why are you 
steaming open a letter from my mother-in-law?" "How do we know it's from your mother-in-law?" "It says so right on the envelope," I protested. "Aha, you say it's from your mother-in-law, but we know the 
other side always corresponds with its agents through a mother-in­
law." "But you're violating my consititutional rights," I protested. "If it weren't for us and our vigilance you wouldn't have any 
constitutional rights. Just how long would this country's form of government last if we didn't violate the law in the name of national security?" 
Just then a man walked up to the house carrying a ladder. "Who the hell are you? I said angrily. He took out his wallet and showed it to me. "FBI," he said. "What took you so long?" I asked him . "Listen, I want you to 
arrest this man for opening my mail." "I can't do that," he said, setting up his ladder so it would reach 
the second-story bedroom window. "Why not?" "I was sent here to break into your house and find out if you're 
trying to overthrow the government by force." "Do you have a search warrant?" I asked. "Nope, that's why I have to break into your house. Hand me that 
black bag with my burglar's tools in it, please." "Who gave you the legal right to break into my house?" "It's not exactly a legal right. You could call it a precedent. J. 
Edgar Hoover, may he rest in peace, decided the law was too soft on revolutionaries. So in order to preserve the justice system in this country, which the Commies and Fascists. would take away from us, he authorized us to break into people's homes." 
"But you're supposed to uphold the law, not break it." 
He replied as he started to climb the ladder with his black bag, "We can never have law and order in this country if federal en­forcement agencies have to obey all the laws. Now if you'll excuse me, I have work to do." 
I turned to the CIA man who was steaming open my junk mail. "That," I said, "I don't mind you doing." At that moment a U.S. Army staff car drove up, and a colonel 
with the insignia of the medical corps got out. 
"Hi, there," he said, sticking out his hand. "We.'re conducting a little experiment in the neighborhood, and we were wondering if you would mind helping your country." 
''What do you want me to do?" I asked. "Just eat one of these sugar cubes." "What's on it?" I asked suspiciously. "Oh, we can't tell you that. It would ruin the experiment. But I 
assure you, the knowledge we gain from you eating this sugar cube will help us defend this great nation of ours from all enemies, domestic and foreign." 
"If I eat your sugar cube, will you get the CIA to stop reading my mail and the FBI to stop breaking into my house?" The colonel smiled. "Possibly. But then again, after you eat the sugar cube, you might not really care." 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
HEY-MAN, I J/JSTR£,4£) Ya/.R PIECC ON CH~R! IT 
IUA5 Te/QUFICAUY SAVA6&! YOIJ IJSE /MJRJ)S UK£ 'THEY 
11/lil<t lltiJNTIN5116/M&N75! I UJveP ITI ""­
,~ 

7HANK5, 
57R4N6~I 
APPRECIATE 7HAT.. 
" 


,-----------~------~--~~-----------------.---------~-~----------------------------~ 



recorasJ 
marshall tucker's rainbow and the dirt band's dream 
"Can't You See," the last song on Mar­shall Tucker's newest album, SEARCHIN' H>R A RAINBOW, is recorded live in concert. At the conclusion of the song, one can hear the emcee shout "Mr. Toy Cald­WI'll!" in response to Caldwell's domination of this particular song. The response can apply to the entire album, where Caldwell shows he is the backbone of this southern based rock band. 
Marshall Tucker was once considered to nwrl.'ly be the sister band of the Allman Brothers Band. Reasons for this rumor are plentiful. For one, both record out of 1\lacon, Georgia on Capricorn Records, a company considered to be the Allman's p<'rsonal <'State. Tucker also frequently lours with lhe Allmans. Since both bands has<' most of their compositions on guitar int<'rplay, Marshall Tucker was often overlooked because most people came to see lhe Allmans. 
llowt•ver, through time both bands have t­
aken a few changes in direction. The 
All mans. through loss of key personnel have 
PXpanded their stage as have Marshall 
Tucker. although on a slightly different 
ll.'vel. . On one song, "Bound and Determined," 
-------food for thought-----­
recipeS for · 

the off-campus cauldron 
The following recipe is designed for government majors specializing in the orient, pre-meds interested in acupuncture, and owners of pop corn poppers. Hemember: Anything that can be prepared on the top of a stove in a skillet or saucepan can be prepared in a pop corn popper. 
CANTONESE CHOP SUEY 
Ingredients: 
I lb. ground beef 
I small onion, diced 
I large can pineapple chunks 
Syrup from said can of chunks 
I pkg Hice Oriental Hamburger Helper 
<you knew that was in here somewhere, 
didn't you?) 
7 oz. pkg frozen pea pods 
H oz. can water chestnuts 
I>IHECTONS: 
Brown hamburger and onion. <Throw t­
lwm in the skillet <or corn popper) and stir 
Ihem around so all the meat gets brown and 
none of it burns. l 
Add syrup and water to make 3-and-a­
lhird cups liquid. <That doesn't need to be 
Pxplained now, does it?l 
Add rice and sauce mix from Hamburger 
Ill'!per. 
Bring this conglomeration to a boil <a lot of big bubbles) and simmer (not quite ·boiling l for 20 to 25 minutes. STIR 
FIU<:QUENTLY. Three (3) minutes before serving, add pineapple chunks, pea pods, and water ·chestnuts. 
Chopsticks are preferred, but may be eat­
l'n with fork by uncultured barbarians or 
ant-communist fanatics. 
Serves 5. 
This next recipe is designed for government majors specializing in the Middle East, ant­hropology majors specializing in Jewish culture, New Yorkers, and anyone else who likes ... 
BAGELS 

Ingredients: 
I 4 1~ cups warm water 
I pkg dry yeast (or two-thirds oz. or 1cake 
compressed yeastl 
3 T. <tablespoons) sugar 
I T. salt 
41 ~ cups unsifted flour 
DIRECTIONS: 
Rinse large bowl under hot water to warm 
bowl. Pour in warm water and sprinkle or 
crumble yeast on top. 
Add sugar and stir until all is dissolved. 
Let stand for five minutes. 
Stir in salt and four. Mix to form a soft 
dough. 
Turn out <dumpl onto a lightly-floured board and knead <squash and pull with your ~n_gers l about ten minutes adding flour to 
gregg bangs 
there is a slight similarity to the Allman's driving style. There are the standard lead guitar and keyboard solos, played by Caldwell and Chuck Leavell, respectively <of the Allmans l but the twist in the song comes in a sax solo by reedman Jerry Eubanks which gives the tune a blues-like quality. 
Eubanks and Caldwell are also featured in another departure from Tucker's usual country style. ''Walkin' and Talkin" is a snappy. jazzy tune that employs Caldwell's guitar and Eubank's sax to keep the catchy, straightforward beat going. 
Through most of the album, Caldwell 
remains at the center of activity. He writes 
most of the material, all of which would fall 
under the label "easy, footstompin' music." 
His vocals have a raspy; but pleasant 
quality about them and his playing on lead 
and steel guitars is excellent. His steel work 
on both "Fire On the Mountain" and the title 
eut "Searchin' for a Rainbow" is the in­
strumental backbone of both those songs. 
From these centers, many other solos derive. This is where Caldwell and the Tucker band has evolved. In past albums, they would've been satisfied to just have a steel or lead solo. Now they interweave 

maureen ~ynn 
board as necessary to il:eep dougn from st­icking to it. After ten minutes, dough should resist kneading and should be smooth and elastic. 
Oil large bowl and place dough in it, t­urning dough until covered with oil. Cover bowl, let dough rise in warm, draft-free place <unlit oven) for fifteen minutes. 
Place dough on lightly-floured surface and punch down well <hit it a lotl. 
Divide into 12-18 (probably more like 10) balls of dough. Push finger through the l'enter of each to make a hole, then stretch lo form into familiar bagel shape. 
Cover, let rise in that same warm place for 20 minutes. 
Boil one gallon of water in very large saucepan and add 4-5 bagels. When bagel is puffy, turn it over with slotted spoon and continue cooking for 3 minutes. 
Bagels usually stick to the bottom of the pan, so loosen with a spoon if they do. They usually rise to the surface v hen they get puffy. 
Remove after three minutes, cool on a CLEAN towel. 
Place on ungreased cookie sheet and sprinkle with desired topping --garlic, sesame, salt, poppy seeds, onion, cinnamon candies, chocolate morsels ... 
Bake in pre-heated oven at 375 degrees for :lO to 35 minutes. Cool and eat or wrap and freeze. 
For some reason this creation, the bagel, is almost unknown in Indiana. For the uninitiated, it can be eaten with butter, peanut butter, cream cheese, as a sandwich roll, or with the following recipe as garnish. 
CHEESE RAREBIT 
Ingredients: Cheddar cheese--approximately 1 oz.. per person. The cheese must be hard, not a cheese spread. Tomato sauce--approximately one-third cup per person, 
that is per ounce of cheese. 
Desired seasoning--cayenne pepper, 
garlic, onion 

Directions: Melt cheese over medium flame. Do not burn cheese. 
Stir in tomato sauce and bring to boil. Seasoning can be added 1at this point if all comsumers agree on what and how much. 
Pour cheese rarebit over individual portions of toasted bagels (see recipe above or send to New York), English muffins <try grocery store or send to England), French bread <I won't say itl, or toast. 
Ifconsumers could not agree on seasoning before, add it at this point. 
The other neat thing about this recipe, and about the others, is that they are relatively cheap to prepare and help fulfill the minimum daily requirements of vitamins set by the U.S.F.D.A. and your mother. 
Tuesday, October 7, 1975 
the observer 
5 
"' 
.."' u 
1! 
0 
..u 
..
.. 


u E"' 
0 
,. 
~ 
u
.. ~ 0 
E 
.. ::> !!! 


Caldwell's solos not only with Eubank's woodwins, but with violins, pianos and mandolins. It not only enhances the country style, but gives a much fuller sound to the 
songs. 

George McCorkle's "Fire on the Mountain" is an excellent example. Caldwell's steel is the backboard off which solos by Eubanks on flute and Charlie Daniels on fiddle are launched This song also shows off one other interesting aspect of the band. Instead of relying on background vocals to compliment the lead singer like most groups, they sometime l'mploy instruments. In "Fire", Daniel's fiddle and McCorkle's acoustice guitar compliment the main vocal while in Tommy ralrlwell's "Keeps Me From All Wrong," producer Paul Hornsby's piano is the counter harm«;_my to bass player Tommy Caldwell's lead vocal. 
All in all, this album is another step for­ward for the Tucker band. Although they never have really been under the Allman Brother's shadow, this album should help add on to their growing reputation as a solid southern country rock group. 
The Nitty Gritty Dirt Band has always come out with pleasant, diversified and listenable albums. From UNCLE CHARLIE AND HIS DOG TEDDY to the 3­lp documentary on country and western 
. music, WILL THE CIRCLE BE UN­RROKEN, Dirt Band albums have always been a combination of good vocals, com­petent instrumental work and original touches. Their latest, SYMPHONION DREAM. is no exception. 
. The album is full of short instrumentals and very interesting sound effects. One that is particularly effective is the 

lmovies ) 

Jarewell, my louely':



mitchum is suP,er6 
Hobert Mitchum is one of those names I invariably forget when discussing "great actors", but I always come away from his performances with every intention of citing him should such an occasion arise again. His most recent contribution to the market, "Farewell, My Lovely," casts him as <you guessed itl an L.A. private detective during the war years. (Is there anything but police and detectives these days? l The lonely, rugged hero, spiced with compassion, tramps the streets of another town (i.e. screen l. The strength of this film lies in the artistry of one man -no one but Robert Mit­chum could have so skillfully filled the role of Phillip Marlowe, I repeat, no one. 
The story is of a search for "my Velma," the girlfriend of one Moose Malloy, whose size makes any Notre Dame lineman look like Tom Thumb. (No kidding -I don't know where they dug upthis guy, but Marlowe's says it all when he refers to "hands that I could sit in. "l Moose has been in the pen for seven years and hasn't heard from his ''babe" in six, thus hires Phillip Marlowe to take up the search. With enough violence and nearly enough sex to satisfy the appetite of the average American movie-goer, the film portrays the neon and smoke world of big-city 1940's. 
Like Fitzgerald's art, "Farewell, My Lovely" juxtaposes the worlds of the Rich and the Poor. The effectiveness of the scenery in most of the movie lies in the very lack of it. Color and lighting create dim, stark restroom kinds of scenes. The only lights in the dingy rooming houses are naked bulbs or piercing neons. The op­pression is felt -the audience squints in response. One early scene, however, occurs in a Gatsby-like millionaire's mansion, lavish and bright. The contrast is literally the difference between night and day. Praise to the lighting director. The stench of the slum couples with the dripping syrup of the wealthy, and only then is it fully portrayed. The link between these spheres? 
One private detective, alone in the midst of 
an injustice he can't contol. 
Are you flinching yet? Not that prot­
agonist-struggling -with-the-hurn ~n­
recording of a brisk moving stream through rapids that leads into Jim Ibbotson's beautiful "Ripplin Waters." Other effective touches are the recording of a "Santa Monica Peir" and "Solstice" and "Sym­ponion Montage" that finishes off the album. 
The rest of the album reflects the diversity that the Nitty Grittys have come to be known for. Their rendition of "The Battle of New Orleans" is done in a very eerie vein, eomplete with Scottish bagpipes. However, on the same side they manage to prance through Hank William's "Hey Good Lookin' ·• with Linda Honstadt helping bass player Jim Ibbotson on vocals. 
The instrumentals mainly show off the work of jack-of-all-trades John McEuen. McEuen can play guitar, banjo, fiddle, mandolin, dobro, lap steel guitar and probably any other stringed instrument in circulation and he shows off his talents on every cut. 
·Supporting McEuen are Ibbotson, drummer and harp player Jimmie Fadden and guitar player Jeff Hanna. All four write while Ibbotson and Hanna supply most of the vocals. Hanna's "Bayou Jubilee," followed by the Dirt Band's instrumental "Sally Was a Goodun" are the bounciest songs on the album. 
Excepting "Mr. Bojangles," the Dirt Band has never had very m~ny singles . However, it is obvious they place great emphasis on making solid well-rounded albums. As long as this trend continues, it is 
. doubtful the Dirt Band will ever put out a boring album. 
Both of the albums reviewed today were donated courtesy of MAC'S RECORD HACK, which is located at 2923 Mishawaka Avenue, SouthBend Indiana. 
lisa moore condition bit again. Sorry, but that's the case, right before you in gray and yellow. The theme song, "I've Heard That Song Before" is appropriate. Thematically, "Farewell, My Lovely" is heavy-handed. Several of Marlowe's profound lines are excessive; the film would work well without them. The rhetoric gives that over-fed feeling, like a forced dessert after a sat­isfying meal. 
But this flaw may be the fault of the script (although scripts can be cutl. Marlowe is a work of art and Robert Mitchum is the sculptor. He carves wit, virility, stub­bornness, honesty and compassion into the 
•character with professional realism. 
Comedy? You know it. Marlowe is sar­castic, subtle and equipped with those lines which are so good it's hard to beleive in their spontaneity. I must admit that my favorite was "She gave me a look I could feel in my hip pocket." 
"She" is a gorgeous, curving brunette, actress Charlotte Rampling, and even I was affected by those "looks." She plays the role of Helen Grail, a member of the Hich sphere, married to a multi-millionaire jade-dealer who is at least a hundred years old. The film doesn't call upon her to do much acting, aside from looking, just to be seductive and beautiful. A command performance. 
I wouldn't rank "Farewell, My Love!y" among the greats by any standard <it<> primary faults being a stale m~ssage, at essentially one-man show, and a heavy· handed theme l, but I would call it a pleasure. For lwo hours one can be capt­ivated by this world of Phillip Marlowe anf purely entertained. In other · ,,rd~· "Farewell, My Lovely" works. Hs l'.is•• level of concentration traps thP Pm " ·n o an attentive audience and poesr. \Jet unwn until the final scene. I was snared -.wo hours of escape -the movie is successft 1. It's playing nightly through Thursday at I te new Forum'Theatre I on US 31 N. 
"Farewell,· My Lovely" is a modern tragedy. The real hero dies at the hand of a dream. Good flick. 



----~ --------~----------------~-------~-----------~-----~--------­

Tuesday, October 7, 1975
the observer

6 
ACTION EXPRESS sponsored by the OMBUDSMAN SERVICE Monday thru Friday 9:30 am to 5:00 pm Monday thru Thursday 9:00pm to midnight Phone: 283-7638 
Q. When will midsemester deficiency reports be mailed? 
A. They will be sent to parents-guardians on October 16. 
Q. I've noticed that only one gate is open in the D-1 parking lot, making for more traffic jams than usual. Why isn't the second gate open? , 
A. Security reports that because of the repair work being done on Bulla Road the south gate can not be used at this time. Both gates will be opened shortly, when the paving is completed. 
(}. Who may use the Alumni-Senior Club? 
A. Only 21 year old seniors, alumni, grad students, and their guests may visit Senior Bar. Club membership cards may be purchased by seniors for $6.00 upon presenting their ND I.D. and a second valid 21 J.D. (i.e. drivers' license). A cover charge of $1.00 will be required for guests who must also be at least 21 years old. 
Q. St>eing as how next year is a presidential election year, are any 11lans being made for political conventions sponsored by students? 
A. A Mock Democratic Convention is scheduled for March 3-6, 1976. It will be structured upon the actual nominating convention however, only one-fourth the number of actual stae delegates will be used for the mock convention. Any ND, SMC, law, or grad student is eligible for one of the 760 state representative positions. Interested students may contact Nancy Brenner (1365) or Jim ''Buzz" Reynolds 0072). 
Q. What ever happened to the Student Government food co-op p1·ogram? 
A. A new membership drive will be starting within three weeks. Specific details will be mailed to all off-campus students, faculty, and staff as well as being published in the Observer . Those students who had already contributed to the initial program may have their contribution credited to the new co-op plan or their money will be refunded. 
U.S. Supreme Court upholds t pot ' laws 
WASHINGTON <APJ -The ~' preme Court Monday refused 1 hear arguments that people I ;e a "fundamental right" to 
~sess and smoke marijuana 
their own homes. 

!'he court let stand a decision 
U.S. District Judge James 
Comiskey of New Orleans ..1t such an argument was 
•lainly without merit." 

Com is key, in a decision up­lwld by the U.S. Circuit Court in New Orleans, refused to con­vene a three-judge court to hPar a challenge to state and ft·deral laws against private ~ossession ·and use of mari­juana. 
The Supreme Court has held in the past that any law in­fringing a "fundamental" privacy right has to be shown to be necessary to promote 
SLC to select 

subcommittees 
Student Life Council members 
will attempt to establish commit­
tees and appoint chairmen at 
tonight's meeting. 
Ed Byrne, student body president and SLC chairman, described this meeting, the second of the year, as 'an organizational one. 
At the first meeting, the mem­
bers held elections. Byrne was 
l'hosen president and Carole 
1\loore, assistant professor of 
his tory, was elected vice­
chairman. The-steering committee 
was also set up. 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, 
University president, told the SLC 
at this meeting that their main 
goal should be to rebuild its 
reputation by doing something 
positive instead of simply talking. 
SLC members also considered a 
COUL proposal to take part in an 
overnight retreat to get to know 
each other better. 
Some of the topics the SLC will 
deal with during the year include 
drinking regulations, parietals and 
coed housing. 
some compelling state interest. If the right is not fundamental it can be justified so long as there is a "rational basis" for it. 
The Louisiana Affiliate of the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws ar­gued that the privacy of the home in and of itself, as well as "the right to be let alone by government to develop one's personality as one sees fit," also are fundamental. 
11503 LWW


ANTONIO'S 
OSCEOLA 
674-9928 

ND-SMC SPECIAL $.20 BEER TUES. NIGHT 
SUPER PIZZA 

Evaluation to begin 



Students criticize 
by Kathy Byrne Starr Reporter 

"Like flogging a dead horse" ­that's one student's opinion of the Collegiate Seminar, which is un­dergoing a re-evaluation this year. 
Sr. Isabel Charles, acting dean of the College of Arts and Letters, has appointed a committee to evaluate the seminar. 
The program began in 1954 as an addition to the General Program of Liberal Studies. 
"We felt a lot of things from the arsenal of liberal education were missing. The students were not as well-educated as they could be," explained Dr. Richard Thompson, assistant dean of the college. 
The program is a required two­semester course for all liberal arts students except American Studies majors and members of the Committee on Academic Progress. Most American Studies students are exempt from at least one semester because they cover much of the same material in their ten­course major. 
The seminar offers general inst­ruction in philosophy, theology and literature. 
"The vast majority of Arts and Letters students take the 
seminar."  stated  Thompson.  
"Even  the  engineering  school  
required  it  for  a  while."  The  
engineering  school  dropped  the  

requirement because their professors were not prepared to teach the course, Thompson said. 
Opinions mixed 

Opinions of the seminar are divided. Most students agree that much of the value of the course depends on the instructor. 
"It was my favorite class last year," senior Tom Conaty said, "just because of the teacher. He made you want to read the books." 
ERRATUM 

The members of the Academic Council were incorrectly listed in yesterday's Observer. 1 
Joseph Fiorella is the representative from the College of Business Administration. John Brosious is the representative from the College of Arts and Letters. 
Another student claimed "the class is not at all dynamic. I view it as a necessary evil." 
"It needs this evaluation. Things could be done -the class is boring, the teacher is boring, the students 
are  not  redeeming  people,"  he  
continued.  
Prof.  Phillip  Chandler,  a  

seminar instructor, agreed that 
more training is needed for some .of the seminar leaders. 
"Many of the teachers have never run seminars before. My undergrad classes were almost all seminars. I try to let the students run the class and try to make everyone responsible," he said. 
"I like to make them feel that otherwise they are letting down the rest of the students," Chandler said. 
·Material a "rehash" 
Many liberal arts students 
~ND 
SMC 
' . 

Arthur of the treatmentKopit's theatr~c~~!r~e~~on 
of our native Americans. 
Oct.10,11, 16, 17,18at8:00P.M. Stepan Center (Notre Dame) 
PEACH TREE 
• DINING ROOM • RANDALL' 



WEDNESDAY NIGHT SPECIAL FRIED CHICKEN 
1\1 ASHE D POT ATOES-SALAD-HOT BISCUITS WITH THIS COUPON $.05
ALL YOU CAN EAT FOR FIRST BEER < WITH DINNER)
2.70 
. . -. ----­





TODAY and TOMORROW :9:00AM. to 3:00P.M. La Fortune Student Center 
•


sem1nar 
raised the question of why they are required to take the seminar when they have already studied much of the material. Business and science students, who have rarely covered much of the material, do not have the requirement. 
"I would agree with that criticism," said Chandler. "But I would hesitate to require it of t­hem. However, a surprising number of liberal arts students haven't had most of the material and I would say none have had all of it." 
"The work load, especially reading, was considered heavy by most students. "It's more than any of my other classes," senior George Gulyas admitted, "but I like it. It helps me think." 
"Quality-wise, the readings are good. The discussions, though, are horribly boring," said another st­udent. 
The first evaluation session is 
scheduled for tomorrow. 
All Seats $2 (STD-FAC $1,50) Season Ticket Still Available Four Plays $7.50 ($5.50 Std-Fac) 
• I • :•' 
I 


One out of every three Marine Corps officers is in aviation. And we're looking for more good men to join them. Men who will fly some of the world's most exciting aircraft, as members of the world's finest air-ground team. If you're in college now, look into our PLC-Aviation program. There's no better 
time-and no better way-to get started. 
THE MARINES ARE LOOKING 
FOR AFEW GOOD MEN. 
Tuesday, October 7, 1975 
the observer 







SMCto sponsor career workshops 

by Tim Heilmann 
Starr Ht-porter 

The SMC Career Development Center will sponsor three career workshops this week, Director Karen O'Neil announced yest­t>rday. 
The first, "Opportunities for Women in Business and Industry," will be held in the Student Act­ivities conference room in . Lt>Mans Hall at 8:30p.m. on Wed., 
Oet. 8. 
Chris Johnson, director of eoroprate employment at Cargill, will discuss entry level positions for graduates at this workshop. 
The st•cond workshop is one in a series of five "Life-Work Career 
Planning" workshops. Phyllis Van der Beck, superin­tendant of training and em­ployment opportunities at Bendix Corporation, will conduct this workshop. The workshop will be at 
7:30 p.m., Thurs., Oct. 9, in the Madeleva Balli study lounge, room 147. 
Van der Beck will talk about characteristics, skills and ex­perience which she looks for when screening potential employees. 
The workshop will then center on the formation of personal life­work career decision making plans. · 
The discussion will also touch on the subjects of conducting a job 
search, making graduate decisions, and formulating a timetable for meeting career goals. 
LSAT Prep Sessions 
On both these nights, the SMC 
Law Society, in conjunction with 
the Career Development Center 
and under the direction of Deanna 
Sololowski, will sponsor a three­
part LSAT prep session. 
The first session, "Math and 
Graphs," will be conducted by Don 
Miller of the Math Department on Wed., Oct. 8, from 7 to 9 p.m. The second will deal with legal problems. Richard Winchell, J.D., 
Sponsored by MBA School 
Corporate leader to speak 
Hobert Anderson, president and l'hief Pxecutive of the Rockwell In! ernation a\ Corporation of Pittsburgh, will speak on "The AnH'rican Corporation: Who Sits in .JudgPmt•nt ?" on Thurs., Oct.9, at :1:15pm in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Tlw lecture will be followed by a question and answer period. A limitt•d amount of Rockwell In­lt>rnational t>mployment op­portunity material will be available. 
The lecture is open to the public. 

Anderson is a member of the advisory council of the Graduate School of Business, Stanford llniversity. He is also a member of lht• board of governors of the At>rospace Industries Association of Anwrica. 
Ill' holds a B.A. degree in 

Hijackers commandeer 71-passenger jetliner 
MANILA. Philippines (APl -Manila, when it was hijacked, Hijackers commandeered a they said. Philippine jetliner carrying 71 They said the airport's mili­persons on a domestic flight tary commander was negotiat· TuPsday. had the pilot put ing with the hijackers, and that down at Manila airport, and de­they had offered to free a wom­mandl'd the plane be refueled an and her baby from among and flown to Libya, officials the (i6 passengers and five crew said. members. 
The plane was on a flight No other details were imme­from Davao. 600 miles south of diately available. 

automotive engineering from the Chrysler Institute of Engineering. 
Hockwell International is a nwmber of the Fo•·tune 500 largest corporations in the nation with sales for fiscal 1975 estimated at $4.8 billion. 
The company has five operational groups including consumer, automotive, aerospace, l'lectronics, and utility and in· dustrial. It is one of the world's largest employers of engineers. 
Some of its operations include Collins Radio, Admiral Radio, TV and Appliances, and North American Aircraft.' 
The firm was deeply involvedm the Appollo-Soyuz space ren­dezvous mission and is a prime cuntractor and developer of America's Space Shuttle. 
Hockwell International has 
manufacturing facilities in ap· 
proximately 30 states and 
operations or affiliates in18 foreign 
countries. 
Anderson's visit is part of the Executive Lecture Series spon· sored by the Graduate Division of lhe College of Business Ad­ministration. 
Past participants have included George E. Keck, president of United Airlines; Roy D. Chapin, Jr., chairman of the hoard, American Motors Corporation; Thomas C. MacAvoy, president, Corning Glass Works; and David Hockefeller, chairman of the board, Chase Manhattan Bank. 
will conduct the session on Thur., Oct. 9, from 7 to 8 p.m. 
Immediately following will be "Language Skills," under the direction of Anne Loux of the English Department. The session will run from 8 to 8:30 p.m. 
Each session will be open to any student who wishes to attend, and will be held in room 246, Madeleva Hall. There will be a $3.00 fee, payable to the SMC Law Society. 
Besides sponsoring· the career workshops, the Career Develop­ment Center offers a full program to meet the needs of women working for a liberal arts degree. 
O'Neil explained the center's main function is "to create an awareness of job opportunities for liberal arts graduates, and to help undergraduates correlate their classes and activities with their plans for the future." 
The Career Development Center is located in the Student Services wing. of LeMans Hall, and is open from 8:30a.m. to noon and 1 to 4 
p.m. daily. 

Students wishing to take ad­vantage of the Center's services can sign up at the office. 
Center's Program Outlined 

The first step in the program involves a personal interview in which the students' needs regarding career planning are assessed' 
The student then is referred to a discussion group. which meets once or twice a week. Freshman and sophomore groups usually focus on course planning and opt­ions. while juniors and seniors discuss job opportunitiews and placement. 
"We have about 60 students a month invoived in the discussion groups. and around 80 people at­tend one or more of the workshops." O'Neil said. "Many have been referred to us by a friend or roommate who has used our service, and most are en­thusiastic about the benefits of the center," she stated. ,. 

SEPTEMBER & OCTOBER SPECIAL 
now at the 

HOUSE OF TURQUOISE 

LHHliD SILVER & TURQUOISE CHOKERS NORMALLY $19.95 --NOW $10.00 <WITH TliiS COUPON) 
I\11CIIIANA'S LARGEST STOCK OF INDIAN .JEWELRY 
--CUSTOM SIL\'ERSMITHING --HEI)AIRS TO INDIAN JEWELRY --GIFT CERTIFICATES FOR THAT BIRTHDAY OH CIIHISTMAS GIFT ··L·\ \'AWAY 
··MASTER CHARGE + + BANK AMERICARD 


THE HOUSE OF TURQUOISE 
3l~SouthMoon Mi~howoko 259·0751 
Open 1 0 a.m. to 6 p.m. Clo5ed Sunday 
• 
WANTED 
Nt•t>d 3 U.S.C. tickE'tS. Call MikE' allt•r 6 p.m. 288 0088. 
Dt>spt>ratt>IY nt>t>d ridE' to Dayton, Ohio. Wt>ekend of Oct. 17. Lisa 4634. 
Nt>ed ride to St. Louis weE'kend of Oct. J1 12. Call Cathy 4436. 
NPed travel companion to tour EuropP next SIO'mestl:'r. Call 1425. 
Rich alumnus will pay more for 4 USC tix. Call Jim at 8904 for info. 
StudPnls Parn while you learn. Part limP contact work. Afford Pxtra incoml'. For appointment, 684 4396. 
wantt>d: 2 GA tix for Pitt game. c,111 l isa, 8089. 
Wanll'd: Just one tickt>t to any homP gam!'. Call John 1620. 
Desperately need two Southern Cal tix. Call Bob 3665. 
Wan!Pd: 4 GPneral Admission tix 
to any home game. Bob D. 232· 0550. 
NPPd ride to Chapel Hill , N.C. for ND UNC gamP. Call Ed 1642. 
Dt•sperately need ride to Pitt. .sburghcn October 17th. Will share PXpPns!'s. PIE'ase call Michele at 2771567. 
Dt>SpE'ratPIY n!'ed 1 U.S.C. ticket. Will pay wE'll. Call Mark 1474. 
Wanted: 2 So. Cal tix. Call Ruth 6173. 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
NPed two GA USC tix. Will pay FOR RENT AccuratE', fast typing. Mrs. unlimited Coors and.or $. Joe 6701 Donoho, 232-0746. or 6795. 
ExcE'ptional room, no smokE'rs, Help Wanted, Male or female NPPd ride MWF from Portage & breakfast privileges. Nl'ar bus. AddrE'ss envelopes at home. $800 Angela to NO. Can leave 9 a.m. or Call 232·8838. per month, possible. See ad under Parlier. Call 289-8015 any evE'ning. Business Opportunities s. Triple Rt>nt my upstairs 2 rooms $50. 233-"S". Nt>E'd ridE'rS E'ast to Phi\ly. LE'aVE' 1329. Kl•ep trying. Thurs. Oct. 9. Call Craig 287·3865. Business Opportunities: AddrE"ss Students or faculty, 5 rms., fur. 
Pnvelopes at home. $800 per Will tradE' 2 MSU tix for 2 USC. Call month, possiblE'. Olfer.details,
nish!'d, privatE'. Security deposit. 234·3277. NPar campus. 1002 Campeau St. send $.50 (refundable) to: Triple Call 234 7925. "S", 699.C36 Highway 138, Pinion RidE' needE'd on 1·80 WE'St to & from Hills, Cal. 92372. c!'ntral Illinois wPekend of Oct. 10 
For R!'nt: Large room in student's or 17. Will share E'Xpt>nses. Call 
house n!'ar Corby's. 618 St. Peter 6804. LOST & FOUND
St. $60 pl'r month. All charges 
included. Want!'d: 1 studE'nl or GA USC ticket. Call 6804. NOTICES 
Lost: gold braceiE'I in vicinity of Library, Nickles, Corby's. CallDPspl'rately nE'E'd USC tix. Will pay 7871.

WE'll. 7937, pll'ase. Will do typing, Pxperienced. TPrm pap!'rs. manuscripts, etc. 
Found: '77 class ring in Carroll

Desperately need 2 or 4 USC GA Call 233·8512. 
Hall. Call 5103.

tickets. Call 4438. Typing 35 c!'nts per page. Call Lost: 1 tan cardigan, lost betweE'nNPI'd ridE' to Akron Oct. 10. Call Dan 272·5549. 
football stadium & O'ShaughnE'ssy.
44007. 
PIE'aS!' Call Debby 8152.

Sport parachuting lessons. Learn Help! Need 2 G.A. tiK to Georgia the safE' way. 6-8 hrs. inst. Jump 
Lo!'t: Glasses pink frames with 

Tech. Call Jim 1188. thl' sam!' day. Contact John 
pink lenses. Reward. Phone 7607.

Bronson 616·782·3500 or Larry 1 still nE'E'd S. Cal. tix. PleasE' call EnyE>art. 219·533·8219. 
Found: Silver bracE'Iet with nameMary at 4.4093. 
"Vicki". Call Bryan, 287.5218.

Quick loans! Morrissey Loan Fund. Up to $150. 30 days, 1 percent 
Found: 1 lockE'! at stadium after N. 

FOR SALE interest. Basement of LaFortune. 
Wt>stern game. Sue 7973.

M-F 11:15-12:15. 
Lost: Man's gold ring with black

Now Open for Business: Flanner
Quality stE"reo componl'nts at 20-40 onyx setting lost betweE'n D·l and

RPcords. 807 Flanner. Phone 1488.
pl'rcent savings. RMS Audio, 321 S. 
North Dining Hall. Reward. Call

R<>cords in stock and on ordE'r. All
Main. 288·1681, 12-7 pm. 
3334.

nE'w $6.~8 L.P.'s for $4.55. New. Allman Bros., Edgar Winter, .
For Sale: 10·SPE'E'd bike $50. Call 
Lost: '77 class ring Friday in

Marshall TL•cker, Crosby Nash,
Paul or Larry 3207. 
O'Shag. RPward Call 1079.

JpffE"rson Starship, Jethro Tull. PERSONALS 
Tim & Mike Thanks for walking us home. Margie & JE'nnifer. 
In appreciation of Dick T. Dum. my's safe rPturn, his capturPrs are CORDIALLY invited to dinnE'r next WE'dnesday at 6:30 p.m. RSVP. 
Dot, Mac, Kat. Sam. 

Tom W!'lte says Campus View is 11 N irvana". ThP Turk!'ys. 
9C: Doubl!' D is alivE' and well in Camden. 
Happy birthday Lil, LOVE', LE'E'. 
lntl'rsted in the finPr things in lift>? Join thE' BUSAI club. Contact Phr!'dd, Dusty F. Ski, or E. o. Nadi. 
Coops WPicomP to the ovE'r the. hill gang!! Muck along ThE' RoomiPS. 
Happy Birthday, EileE'n and Nancy. Your Walsh friPnds. 
THE GREEN SPARROWS ARE TAKING OFF + THE GOLDEN LUMBRADOES ARE COMING. KEEP YOUR HEADS UP. 
Paul, Get off my case . Squirrel 
Dear Maureen: What happened In the Captain's Sink Friday night? UnclE' Ted 
P.S. How wPrE' the carrots? 
For sale: 1 NO jacket Blue, with gold sfeeves. 287-5218. Bryan. 




Tuesday, October 7, 1975
8 the observer 
Good defense highlights weekend interhall contests 
by Thomas Conaty 8-6 at halftime. Then in the fourth scoring as Pangborn defeated 
quarter, Tom Longoria won it for Sorin 6-0 on Cartier field. After Interhall football completed its Grace with a 14 yd. scoring jaunt. Sorin fumbled the ball away on its 
first possession and three playssecond sunday yesterday with Holy Cross 7 Zahm 6 later, Nicholson boomed a 52 yd.
most of the offenses coming alive Both defenses dominated the field goal that hit the crossbar and after a slow start last week. Some first half play by time after time bounced over. Nicholson was notof the defenses were just as sharp coming up with big plays. Holy finished. After another fumble,. specially off-campus with its Cross broke the ice by scoring in Pangborn's big foot kicked a 35 yd,a fense providing the winning the third quarter on a 37 yd. pass three-pointer that sailed throughpt ·nts. Flanner, Howard, Grace, play from Mickey Landi to Ted the crossbars with plenty to spare. 
Ho y Cross, Pangborn and 
Howard. The extra point was good Nicholson 6 SorinO.
Morrissey were also winners in 
and it proved to be most important. 
yesterday's action. Off-campus 2 Alumnijo
In the fourth quarter, Zahm
Flanner 20 Stanford 0 Neither team could generate any 
scored via a 3 yd. run by Kevin 
offense with the defense shining onFlanner opened up the scoring in Fallon but failed on the conversion both sides. Off-campus finallythe first quarter with Mike Schuff and Holy Cross hung on to win, 7-6. 
scored in the final period with twopicking up a fumble and running 40 
Morrissey LO Dillon 0 
minutes left when Jimmy Dwyervds. for the TD. In the fourth Morrissey's defense shut out blocked an Alumni punt and itquarter it was all Flanner as they Dillon in a hard hitting game with sailed out of the endzone for ascored twice against Stanford. 
safety. Off-campus coach, John
Morrissey scoring all it needed in
Mark Coons hauledin a 63 yd. pass Hargrave said he did not care
the first quarter. Tim Puntarelli
from Schuff and Jay Debroech which unit put the points on the
threw 23 yds. to a diving Jeff
picked•. off a Stanford pass and board as long as they scored.
Carpenter for the score and Brooks 
scored from 15 yds. out. 

Humphreys added the extra point Howard -St. Ed's 6 Fisher o Gracl' 12 Cavanaugb 8 to make the score 7-0, Morrissey. 
In yet another defensive game,Both teams scored in the first Morrissey iced the win with a 15 both offenses seldom generatedhalf with Grace scoring on a 4 yd. yd. field goal in the fourth quarter scoring threats with interceptionspass from Matt Ratterman in the b'y Humphreys. Dillon threatened being the big plays. Howardfirst quarter. Im the second twice but was unable to reach finally scored in the third quarter quarter, Larry Morris of paydirt against a tough Morrissey when Rick Zawelfki picked off an
Cavanaugh threw 22 yds, to John "D"' Caro.l and then the two 'point Pangborn 6 Sorin o erant Fisher pass and raced 30 
yds. for the game's only score. Theconversion to Mike Murphy to lead Sean Nicholson provided all the game ended on an exciting note
Ern.ie Torriero~=========~==========================*-==================================================~=============: 
when a Fisher pass was in­tercepted in the end zone by the

Extra Points ,,_
aslert Hdoward defhense. 
· tu ent OC.Key ~~~~~~=~:~=~:~=~~~;~;~;~;~;;;;;;;;;:~;;;:::;====::::::::::::=~== Spartan 1 ocker room on sale today
0

While most people on the Notre Dame campus were pretty unhappy 9 about the course of events Saturday, there were a few others who did not 
Student hockey tickets will go onshare that same feeling. 
sale today through ThursdayHappiness reigned supreme in the Michigan State LOCKER ROOM from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the ticketafter the Spartans pulled off one of the biggest upsets of the 1975 window on the second floor of the
collegiate football season. The players rushed into the crowded visitors' ACC. quarters and quickly Spartan coach Denny Stolz led his team in a chorus 
The tickets, which will be sold on 
of the MSU Fight Song. For the contest had ended, just as the song does, a first come, first served basis,in "victory for MSU." cover 14 home games. Each 
Stolz then beckoned his team to the blackboard. The noise that had student may present only his I.D. reached an ear-piercing tone only mements before, had suddenly died card. down. The Spartan mentor pointed to the blackboard. A broad grin Prices are: came to his face. Aroar rose out of the victorious Spartans and suddenly, Notre Dame students -$14.00 without warning, a wave of MSU players attacked the blackboard. Less 
St. Mary's students -$14.00 
Married ND students -$14.00
than thirty seconds later, the board was demolished. Itlay splintered and Spouse -$21.00
broken, much like the team that sat in stunned silence in the other locker Total -$35.00
room. 

No Season tickets will be sold"It's really great to beat a perennial national power," bellowed Stolz. 
after October 9th.
"Notre Dame is one of the top-ranked teams in the country. It really means a lot for us to beat them." B k tb 11 r 
Middle guard Tom Standel echoed his coach's sentiments. "This is a aS e a lX naturally tough rivalry," Standel explained. "I'm just so happy to beat 
• Notre Dame. It's such a good feeling." aVailable today "I'm not surprised we won," said a poised Levi Jackson. "We just kept taking it right to them. But to be on top you have to play that way." ''A lot of people picked Notre Dame to win today," beamed quar­Student basketball tickets will go terback and offensive ring leader Charlie Baggett. "But the Spartans on sale on today , October 7th for didn't pick Notre Dame to win. I guess that's what football is all about." all students who did not order a t­The key play in the game came after Notre Dame had just knotted the 
icket last spring or summer. The sale will last one day only. 
score at 3-3 with 4:08 remaining. Following the ensuing kickoff, reserve Tickets will be sold to allfullbackk Tyrone Wilson found a hole in the Irish line and raced 76 yards. 
married, Law, graduate and un­dergraduate students who wish to
Wilson was a starter as a sophomore two years ago. But since then he purchase them. Only $21 bleacher has spent most of his time as a back-up to Jim Earley. seats are still available. St. Mary's 
"I just kept on hanging in there," Wilson explained when asked ho it felt students may also order tickets on to be a back-up man for so long. "But this (the run) makes it all worth it. that date at a $25 price. It's the biggest thing that ever happened to me. The tickets will go on sale from 9 
"I saw the opening and that was it. I cut off (split end Dane) Fortney's a.m. to 5 p.m. at the ticket window block and headed downfield. I saw (Luther) Bradley coming over at on the second floor of the ACC. about the 10-yard line. When he tackled me, I thought I was in the end Each student may present only zone." four I.D.s. 
"Yes, 1 sent the play in," Stolz answered when asked who made the key F• Jd h k 
call. "One of our offensive tackles was convinced we could trap (Steve) Je OC eyteam Niehaus. We moved him out and the play worked to perfection." 
When the Spartans lost their season opener to Ohio State, many thought beaten by WMU that the MSU season was doomed to failure. Saturday's victory over Not­re Dame changed all that. by Eileen_ O'Grady 
"We play a very difficult schedule," Stolz offered. "Most of the teams The Women's Varsity Fieldwe play are going to bowl games. We were disappointed after that Ohio Hockey team lost 10-4 to WesternState game. But we surely have nothing to be ashamed of with our 3-1 Michigan Monday. Notre Damerecord." 
had played Western Michigan's"Ohio State was not our whole season," Baggett pointed out. "Our second team last year and tied 1-1.
difficult schedule gives us a chance to avenge that loss. It also gives us t­But their varsity team "was a lot 
he chance to prove we have a good ball club." 
better than we expected," com­
"Yeah, Ohio State was a big letdown," Jackson admitted. "But we just mented co-captain Maureen had to hang on in there and keep it coming together." Maloney. 
Saturday's contest was a typical Spartan-Irish class in the sense that Leading the offensive attack for the game was a very physical one. Many players suffered minor in­Notre Dame was left inner Bonita juries and a few players incurred serious damages. Bradshaw. Bradshaw scored three 
"It was a very, very physical game," Stolz said as he shook his head in unassisted goals for Notre Dame. disbelief. "When you have that type of hitting you are going to see the Right inner Becky Banasiak, 
scored the fourth goal, set up again ball on the ground a lot. We lost Mike Imhoff on the first play of the game. 
by Bradshaw. Bradshaw took theHe'll have knee surgery. I guess the tempo of the game was set from the ball all the way down field. Fromstart." 
the corner, she shot the ball acrossThe spartans draw a tough assignment next week as they go up against field. Banasiak tipped it in for herMichigan, a long time Big Ten foe. 
first goal of the season.
"This win was nice," Jackson said. "But we have Michigan next week Maloney thought Notre Dame on national television and I want them more than anything else." 
"was just outclassed. We playedIf the Spartans play with the enthusiasm exhibited at Notre Dame last hard and we made mistakes, both Saturday, then Levi Jackson's wish may become a reality. 
offensive and defensive." 
Tough defense characterized most of Sunday's interhall football games. 
*Observer 






Sports 
'75 Irish Hockey 
Believe it or not, it's hockey season again. For these detractors who think it's too early, that the football season is barely underway, be warned! It is hockey season. 
All one has to do to check out this rumor is to amble over to the North Dome of the A.C.C. For a while the Notre Dame football team was in Boston, the Irish icers were beginning their fall workouts. 
Notre Dame hockey has a great deal of similarity with its gridiron counterpart. It is a physical sport, an exciting sport, and a very rewarding one. 
Upperclassmen, particularly the seniors, can tell the newcomers to Notre Dame, a lot of stories about Irish hockey. The program has risen quickly, both on the ice and in the hearts of the fans here at Notre Dame. 
Three seasons ago, Notre Dame finished second in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association. They bumped off North Dakota in the semi-finals of the playoffs before bowing to the eventual national champions, Wisconsin, in the finals. They lost that series by one goal. Hockey fever was rampant that year throughout the Notre Dame cam­pus. 
Statistically, the 1974-75 season is one the Notre Dame hockey team would probably like to forget. The 13-22-3 finish was the worst since hockey was resurrected back in 1968-69. 
But in many ways the season was a bright one. Coach Lefty Smith's icers wound up seventh in the WCHA, one notch higher than the previous season. And while Notre Dame suffered its first shutout after 208 con­secutive games of scoring, the offensive play of several players, most notably those in the sophomore class, improved considerably. 
Then, too, the Irish defense, one beset by injuries and ineligibilitiea, yielded the most goals ever allowed in one season. Still, the youthful blueliners and goaltenders gained valuable experience. 
In short, 1974-75 was not as disappointing as the record indicated. In fact, of the 147 United States colleges that have varsity hockey teams. Notre Dame was tops in the number of players drafted by the National Hockey League this year with seven (Alex Pirus, Clark Hamilton, Kevin Nugent, Paul Clarke, Roger Bourque, Jack Brownschidle, Len Moher). 
With the return of all seven of those skaters there is reason for op­timism in the Notre Dame camp entering the 1975-76 season. 
"With good defensive play along with our offensive capabilities we should be extremely competitive in the league this season," Smith says. "Considering our academic and physical problems, the squad came together well near the end of the season and believed in themselves as we went into the playoffs against Michigan Techh." 
The Huskies went on to win the NCAA championship, but of the six postseason games Michigan Tech played, the Irish presented the stiffest competition. 
"The kids are really optimistic." Smith continues. "Of course, it will take a lot of hard work and sacrifice to get the job done. The WCHA will probably be very well balanced with Minnesota, Michigan Tech, Michigan and Colorado College the favorites." 
The 1975-76 season certainly should be a challenging one for the Irish, 
and with the experience the youthful skaters gained last season, Notre 
Dame hopes to offer its opponents a challenge in return. 
Student season tickets are on sale now through Thursday from 9 am to 4 
pm at the ticket window on the second floor of the A.C.C. The tickets will 
be sold on a first-come, first-served basis, covering all14 home games. 
For the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students the price is only $14.00. 


