
--~-------------------......, 
lnslghts. .. page 2 

IUSB Section. .. pages 8&9 

Columns...page 5 
Acting Dean Named 
untversify of notre dome sf mary's college Thursda_\', .hmt• :!li. J!17a \"ol. 10 No. :I 
_pagell 
Most students have two semesters to discover the South Bend area. Summer students have six weeks. To help with the accelerated course in South Bend­Mishawaka,-a guide to the area can be found on pages six and seven. Included are places to eat, places to drink and dance, parks and recreation areas, shop­ping centers, and a short history of the community. On page 11, you can find maps of South Bend and Mishawaka to help you find your way around. Welcome to "River City!" 

---------------------~ 

\IlL ~"MlNISTRf>-liON 1\llft./I.TL~ ll'JI)\lflf-Ji!f PI<._\C.E::. 
AND HIO£S (s£h'.ND ITS 

Every Picture Tells A Story, Don't It? Page 3. 
WHILE. 1~t V'J'JK t\UL>LU y.::l':..::,c~ll\l(l_ <,if\I.JE. lo E(~R 1\lt: 'BR.UNl :f CU'STOM(R. C.Ori'\PL.AINTS ... 

Two features tell you something about Notre Dame's past and present. On Page four, Tom Russo answers queries about what's behind the locked doors leading to the fifth floor of the main building. He says there's ghosts, but then again .... ­
On page ten, Andy Praschak reports on the strange case of J. Patrick Boyle, a student who had to pay the price of citizenship in South Bend -jury duty. Read about his "life in court." 

The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's College. 
Subscriptions may be purchased for 8 dollars per semester (16 dollard per year) from The Ob· server, Box Q Notre Dame Indiana 465:;6. Second Class postage paid, 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
TONY'S SHOE REPAIR 
HAND MADE SANDALS TO YOUR SPECIFICATIONS. SELL WORLD'S LEATHER SHOES.PICK YOUR STYLE 
NOW LOCATED B.EHIND BADIN HALL OPEN: 8 a.m.-4!30 p.m. _M-F 8 a.m.-1 p.m. SAT. 283-1144 QUICK SERVICE & REASONABLE PRICES 
MEN-WOMEN 
Some of the 
best college students 
are veterans. 
Let's face it. Not everyone wants to step right into college after high school. 
Maybe you'd rather wait a few years. To travel, to learn a skill, to find out what you can do, to mature. For you, today's Army can be a meaningful altet. 
native to college. 
We offer challenge. Physical and mental. We offer over 200 job-training courses to try out for. We offer a choice of location. Stateside or abroad. 
If you decide to start'college while you're in, we'll pay up to 75% of your tuition. 
Call 
Army Opportunities 
232-1616 
Join the people who've joined the Army. 
An Equal Opportumty Employer 

I 
~ 

w NO 
SMC 
THEATRE 
SUMMER 1975 SUMMER SERIES fe»r Adults & Young People 
LITTLE THEATRE 
(Moreau Hall, St. M1.1ry's College) 
AIR CONOITIONED 
Phone: 284-4li6 

SUBSCfHPi ION SERIES SPECIAL RATE: Four Ploys $9.50 Regular rc:;f·e $2.75 each 
1.1-----•.,x~------..,cz.--.--~----tl 
SLEUTH 

Area premiere of Shaffer's tense mystery June 20, 2'1, ?.1, 2G at 8:00P.M. 
~ 

.~ lawrence ond Lee's dramatic aceour>I of the trial of the 1 century in celcbrotio:~ of lne counl!y's !99th birthday July /i., 5, 11, 12 at G:OG P.N'!. Ar:!MS ~1\!Dl TH~ MAN 
Bernard Shaw's delightful romantic cor·,edyJ,.,.., 1tl 10 "JI; "J~ ,.....+ P,f'ld'\ f') t..• 
--., . -1 "4 I ...,....,, _ __. .. , • ....,. • ._.. ..,.. • ••••• 
TEN NIGHTS IN A 8Afl.ROOM 
A musical version of William Pratt's famed 19th century temperance melodrama July 31, Aug. 1, 2 at 8:00 P.M. 
TH~h nu: rO~ YOUNG PE(')PlE -• • Participatory Plays for the Young • • 
JACK AND iHt: BEANSTALK (Weds. & Sots.) June 25, 28, July 2, S, 9 at 2:00P.M. 
TALES FROM MOTHER GOOSE (Weds. & Sots.) 
July 12, 16, 19, 23, 26 at 2:00P.M. 
THEATRE FOR YOUtJG PEOPLE-ALL SEATS .75 SPECIAL GROUP RATE AVAILABLE 
FOR GROUPS OF 20 OR MORE
t 
· 



INSIGHTS··· 
The Stanford University Alumni magazine has charted the most productive life spans of men in certain fields. Painters do their best between the ages of 40 and 44. Sculp­tors,between 35 and 39. Short story writers, between 30 and 34. Novels and best-sellers are written between the ages of 40 and 44, whereas the "most influential" books are written between the ages of 35 and 39. Popes do best between the ages of 82 and 92. 
* 
Woody Allen has stated that, despite the rumors flying about after his date with Mrs. Betty Ford, he and the First Lady "are just good friends." Allen escorted Mrs. Ford at a benefit for the Martha Graham dance company in New York. He wore black tie and black and white sneakers. When questioned about the footwear, he replied that he thought the sneakers looked better than the customary black shoes. 
* 
As a punishment for the assassination of King Faisal, Prince Faisal bin Musaed bin Abdelaziz has been beheaded. The Prince, clad in white robes, was reportedly very calm as he was led to the execution spot in front of the palace. A sword with a golden hilt was used for the beheading, which is the traditional form of execution in Saudi Arabia. A crowd of 10,000 watched. 
* 
It has been suggested that Americans be prohibited from staying in small English. guest houses, because they bathe too frequently. Mr. Roy Hendy, a Cornwall lawyer, mape the suggestion after hearing that six Americans who had registered at an old cottage near the coastal town of Lizard wanted hot baths morning and night. They left when told that such frequent bathing was impossible because of water-disposal problems. "The trouble with these damned Americans is that they bathe too much," Mr. Hendy commented. 


Guru Maharaj Ji is an outlaw now. As if . mother's charges that the 17-year-Qld religious leader was too concerned with worldly materialism, now a magistrate in the Guru's home turf has issued a warrant for Maharaj Ji 's arrest. The Guru has been 
charged with jumping bail and leaving India when he was supposed to appear in court to answer charges that he tried to 
defame his oldest brother, who is at­tempting to unseat him as spiritual leader of the Divine Light mission. 
There has been no indication whether the 
court would seek extradition of Maharaj Ji, 
who has returned to his mansion in Malibu 
California. ' 
New Times magazine reports in its latest issue that it is possible, for $12,800 in cash and $300 a year in dues, to become a member of an exclusive doomsday survival retreat in the mountains of Sacramento, California. For your money, you get a membership card and-in the event of a global catastrophe-a wood burning stove, 20 
pounds of cooking fat and 712 acres of pine­covered mountainside. In return, each member buys and stores at the club a year's supply of dehydrated food.Prospective buyers are taken blindfolded to the club; it's exact location is kept a secret. There is no nonsense about its purpose. Part of the selling pitch is an explanation about how the road to the retreat could be cut off with dynamite during a crisis. Co-founder Max Hollis sets the club's ominous tont': "I've got gun racks in the back of my pickup Iruck." 
* 
*** 
Safety Tips for Summer Fun 
It's summertime, and the living is easy for those who will take to the great outdoors for an afternoon or a long family vacation. 
But leisure time can become a costly and even dangerous interlude if attention is not given to safety precautions and procedures, said Clay Williams, a doctoral student and instructor in health and safety at Indiana University. 
Williams said the biggest problems in outdoor recreation safety are that people are either unaware of safety rules or theu just ignore them. "I've seen some people do the craziest things," he said. "They just aren't using common sense." 
Whether the activity is swimming, back­packing, or boating, it's important to know~ what to do if an accident does occur, Williams said. "One of the best preparations a person can have for outdoor acitvities is a workable knowledge of first aid procedures." 
The University offers a Standard First Aid course <H160) through the School of Health, Physical Education and Recreation, and, in the evenings, through the Division of Contint.ling Education. First aid courses also are offered free of charge <except for materials) at most chapters of the American Red Cross. 
"First aid techniques have changed considerably in the last five or six years, so even those who have already completed a course should occasionally enroll in the refresher classes," Williams said. 
Williams offered the following safety advice for outdoor recreation this summer. 
--BOATING. The basic rules of boating are almost identical to driving a car --you pass a boat to his left and the overtaking boat must yield the right-Qf-way. In general, non-motored boats, such as sailboats and canoes, have the right-Qf-way except when passing a motored boat. Required safety equipment varies from area to area. Boaters should know the regulations in their area and follow them carefully. Common sense governs most other boating safety rules, such as not overloading with people or cargo and staying out of the water in stormy weather. 
(Williams recently conducted a 30­question survey of Indiana boaters' knowledge of laws and regulations gover­

ning waterways and discovered the average 
person scored only 10 correct.) 
--SWIMMING. Swimming safety is well­
publicized, and yet people of all ages drown 
in swimming accidents each year. The 
basic rules are to swim under the super­
vision and with a friend, and to know your 
own limitations and remain within them. 
--CAMPING AND BACKPACKING. One 
of the things that I'm really concerned about 
now is tent camping. Many tents on the 
market now are very flammable and people 
who take gasoline stoves or lanterns into a 
tent are running a very high risk of catching 
the tent on fire. I wouldn't even advise 
smoking in a tent. Another little known 
danger in let!~ camping is taking a heating 
device into the tent. They use up a con­
siderable amount of oxygen and many 
campers suffocate each year this way. 
Backpacking tequires additional safety 
rules, such as providing someone with a 
detailed map of the area in which you will be 
hiking. It's a good idea to have a list of 
check-in points, such as a country store or 
filling station, and an approximate time of 
arrival. You should always travel with 
another person, and have at least a standard 
background in first aid. 
--POISONOUS PLANTS AND SNAKES. 
Although the immediate danger of snake 
bite is somewhat overrated in movies and 
television, direct action should be taken. If 
medical aid is .available within 24 hours, 
the victim should be made comfortable 
while a doctor is notified. If medical help 
cannot be obtained within 24 hours, then 
proper first aid should be administered to 
the victim. 
The best precaution for poisonous plants is to recognize and avoid skin contact with them. 
· Williams stressed that people should not leave their common sense at home when they enjoy outdoor activities. A basic background in safety precautions and first aid can help make those leisurely summer days a truly relaxing and enjoyable ex­perience. 
r r 


ampus 

by Andy Praschak Associate Editor A University-wide price hike on prepared foods and 
has been implemented by Notre Dame Food Services, headed by Edmund T. Price, director. The increase will effect customers of the South Pay Cafeteria, the North Pay Cafeteria and the Huddle, campus snack. shop. 
Tom Grogan, manager of the Huddle, explained that the in­crease is a result of the yearly reevaluation of prices carried on by Food Services. "By reviewing the prices yearly, in the month of .June, we are able to keep the prices constant throughout the year," Grogan noted. He also pointed out that they are virtually successful in keeping the prices stable throughout the year, despite 
wholesale price changes. He did point out, however, that prices of items in the grocery section of the Huddle are subject to change according to the going prices on the market. 
The price increase was done on an item-by item basis and no 
---~---­
" • • ~. ,. • 
Thursday, :June 26.C 19'15' 1 


Food Prices Hiked 1n• June 
"across the board" increases were carried out, according to Grogan. " ... the result being that many prices were not changed," he said. 
The increase, which went into effect on June 16, effects most beverages, fountain items and all bakery products from the Notre Dame Bakery. 
The most confusing price in­crease occured with the goods from the NO Bakery. The price of a doughnut was raised from ten cents to twenty-five cents for approximately one hour. After this brief span of time, the price was then lowered to twenty cents. One Huddle employee PxplainPd that the increase-decrease of doughnuts can be attributed to office workers in the Ad­ministration Building who were furious and quite vocal about this particular increase. "Many of 
these same workers are still 
boycotting us because of the price 
changes," said Georgine Donal 
The most inconsistant price 
increase occured on bacon sand­
wiches. Whereas bacon sells for 
fifteen cents a strip, a sandwich 

made of three strips of bacon is a worse customer after the price the increase ~is that no au•o4 ua•q going for sixty-five cents. This increase." amount ofwarningwas given places the price of bread and labor Another NO student, Bill Car-customers of the Huddle," he for one bacon sandwich at twenty michael, employed on campus for Edmund T. Price, Director cents. the summer explained that the Notre Dame Food Services is 
specific price increases follow: ~~irnc,rieza;s~e~s;m~aiyZbieliuisih~·fiie~di. i~vaa~c!at~iaoinffia~n§d~u~niiaiviiaiil;a~bile~~
Were Are N to Beverages .15,.20 .20,.25 Sundaes .35;.40 .45,.50 BLT Sandwiches .65 .75 Ice Cream Cones.15,.20 Ice Cream Sodas .25, .40 Chili .50 Shakes .40 Doughnuts .10 
Grogan explained that as in increase, there will be m confusion but in a short while will return to normal. Many Huddle customers, however, are vocally pronouncing their displeasure at the price increase. One angry nun was claiming that the price of a bag of ice had fifty per cent since last and asked that the manager advised of her displeasure. 
Mary Kane, Campus Tour and NO student remarked, "I fee that they have taken away one Ihe few breaks that we, as gel. Speaking as one of their customers, I'm going to have to 

Death Education May Cause Greater Fear 
Instead of reducing excessive fear of death, death education may be causing greater fear. 
According to results of an ex­periment described in the current issue of the Notre Dame Journal of Education, eighth-graders ex­pressed greater anxiety after ('ompleting lessons in death education than did students who received no such lessons. However, the unexpected results may indicate that the treatment groups are in the process of coming to grips with 1 a fear of death previously repressed, says the author, Sr. Mary Louise Mueller, C.C.V.I., of the Depart­ml'nt of Religious Studies at In­carnate Word College, San An­tonio, Texas. 
"While a moderate fear of death is healthy," Mueller writes, "there is much that indicates the presence oi an excessive fear in most Americans. Since a high fear of death hinders a person's living a full life, it follows that orie im­portant goal of education should be to' lessen the fear." ~ 
The experiment proposed to test the hypothesis that one can Jearn to overcome the fear. A scale to measure fear of death was developed, "built on the tentative theory that, while the fear of death essentially stems from helplessness and impotence," there are eleven other fears and seven indicators directly related to the intensity of an individual's fear of death. The other fears include fear of possible death-causing 
events, ghosts, parental anger, punishment, failure, getting older, the unknown, separation and darkness, blindness and physical restraint. 
Seven categories which, when found in combination,' indicate a more than moderate fear of death include death-defying or death­denying attitudes; use of sonifications, similes euphemisms when speaking death or the dead; aggressive behavior; expression of the death wish for self or others; certain dream content; exaggerated need to feel a sense of completion and order, and general pessimism, discouragement and insecurity. 
Mueller received her Ph.D. in 
Education from the University of 
Notre Dame in May, 1975. 


Registration Near Completion 
The majority of registration for the Summer session was com pleted on June 23, according to Dave Kil, Assistant Registrar of the University of Notre Dame. Kil 
·noted that his projection of over two thousand students registering seems correct although the official figures will not be prepared until the end of the week. 
"Despite a few computer rnix­ups, the registration process ran smoothly," said Kil. He ex­plained, however, that each~ student is important as an in­dividual and those who had troubles were given as much assistance as possible. 
The process now taking place in the Registrar's Office is that of students dropping and adding courses. The deadline for this procedure is Friday, June 27, according to Kil. Students wishing to drop or add a course are in­structed by Kil to go first to the department or departments in­volved, then to Student Accounts, on the ground floor of the Ad­ministration Building. "Even if the charge to the student stays the same, it will avoid ,confusion by going to the Office of Student Accounts," said Kil. The final step is to go to the Registrar's Office where the courses will be properly 
processed, according to Kil. 
"Any student, who for one reason or another arrived late and has not yet registered should come 
Kil. 
The office is located in room 215 of the Administration Building. The student may then be sent to Student Accounts to finalize his bill and receive a receipt. 
· 
Any students who have problems concerning registration process should the Registrar's Office or call office at 283·7044. 


MISHAWAKA 
Across From Town and Country In College Square 

Phone 259-5288 

the observer 
BE


by Tom Russo ; 
Staff Reporter ' . . 
What lies beyond those blocked stairwells 1 above the fourth floor of the Notre Dame's , Administration building? Secret offices? Stores of treasure? Hidden compartments? 
Nothing. 
Or, almost nothing. 

The fifth floor is impressive if for nothing else than its vast dimensions:. From out­doors the fifth floor appears to be a series of attic gables. In reality it extends the entire width and breadth of the other four floors of I 
the main building. 

Large empty corridors. Still emptier . rooms of peeling paint and chipped plaster. Graffitti on the wall attests former students 
. curiosity. 

Father Wilson University Vice President for Business Affairs, kindly took time out of his schedule to conduct methroughthis long­forgotten floor. "All the doors were 'locked once," he said. "but students forced their way into the rooms. I guess they were hoping to find something," he mused. 
If those students found nothing, they missed the fifth floor's most intriguing possession--its rich past. 
The large room on the end of the east wing is abundantly illuminated by a skylight. The shallow platform immediately beneath the skylight is all thet remains of the cradle of art at Notre Dame. This was once a sculpture studio. The entire floor housed the Art Department until O'Shaughnessy Hall was completed in late 1953. • 
The main corridor is the place which most attracts the wandering eye. On each wall of the hallway hang empty glass cases. Today they exhibit only the names of ·child -happy students. But once they housed Notre Dame's muse urn: soldier relics, religious vestments and Indian lore. 
Spanish and Confederate flags, swords, and General Sherman's coat filled oneof the side cases. <General Sherman donated his military memorabilia and personal papers to Notre Dame.) 
On the opposite wall was encased a squaw dress, frontier suit, beaded jackets, peace pipes, tomahawks, arrowheads and 
wampum. 

In one corner hung the Mass vestments of early French missionaries, including a brocade chasuble of Father Marquette. 
Thesemuseumpeices were all removed in 1942 because of a "fire bug scare". They were never replaced. Rumor has it that Sherman's coat and other lore rest somewhere in the caverns of the Ar­chitecture building. · 
There are still more intriguing places. 
Above the glass museum cases on the west and east wings hang murals, pasted to the walls, depicting gory Civil War battles. They are large, ~rhaps as large as Gregori's Columbus panels two floors below. Covered with dust and darkened with time, these murals are most mysterious. 
No one knows who painted them. Even their origins remain shrouded in ignorance. Their story, according to Frederick Beckman, goes something this: 
In the nineteenth century, history shows were common in the States. Itinerant lectureres would their horse-drawn wagons with murals, mounted on rollers, depicting historical or geographic scene. The im­pressarios, in the style of Hawth9rne's Showman in the short story "Main Street", would turn these murals across the stage to give the audience a sense of motion. By charging admission, they earned their living traveling from town to town, lecturing onsuch learned topics as theMississippi River and yes, the Civil War. 
One day--no one is sure exactly when--a lecturer arrived in town just as he ran out of money. So he decided to donate his historical artifacts to Notre Dame. These included the civil war murals and the Indian relics. What alumni could top that contribution? 
The earliest mention of these items ap­peared in the September 30, 1938 edition of the Notre Dame'Scholastic which then was the University's newspaper and literary magazine. But no one recorded the lecturer's arrival. 
Fr. Flanigan, Chairman of the 
Department, judged from their style 
the murals were probably painted in 
1800's. The quality of the 
assessed, is"terrible!" 
Who can solve the 
traveling historian? 
A Long H 
The morning of April . building of Notre ·· fourteen years ground. Very .. president and ... ·• · selected 
· Professor Stace composed a graphic 
description of the Main Building for 
Donahoe's Magazine that same year: 
On this floor (today's 4th) and the next 
above are also numerous private rooms and 
dormatories, a distinguishing feature of the upper floor being the school of drawing; for the art of drawing makes a prominent figure in the curriculum of the scientific course. 
<T.E. Howard, A Brief History of the University of Notre Dame dulac, (Chicago: Werner, 1893 
Irregularities 
.-~"a'''":: the building was constructed by 

m~mtiOeJ·s of the community, architectural 
do occur. One curious room 
. .. . .. a gable is some two feet lower than .· ·• •• ·• .• of the floor. In this mysterious •• •. ·• •• •• • were once stored discarded pain­'• ·· ·. ·· ·• •• and sculptures.
) <.. fifth floor provided a stage for the 
· · · · · ·· Choral Union and Orchestra at 
•nY·~u.u• 15 and dedication of the interior on May 29, 1890. These were executed by , a Roman, who for twenty Dame's artist-in-residence. ......·. completed the interior of 
· ·. ·· ·.•.•..· and the nine panels of .· ·. ·. ·. floor of the Main 
ttrt1enltocc~upiedone of the top 
floor. The other half housed the Department 
of Fine Arts. 
Stability reigned until 1930 when the College of Law was completed. In the true fashion of Notre Dame's musical depart­ments game, Architecture moved to the old 


233-8383 
. •·•······••••••••········•·········
. FOR YOUR BACK PACKING ~r;_ NEEDS

.L 
.

. SIERRA SPORTS 2216 MIAMI SOUTH BEND, IN 
.
............................................. 

BARLO PLAYHOUSE 
" I Do I Do '· 
thru June 29 
"Fantastiks " July and August 
At TINKER'S DAM 
MICHIGANICITY~!IND. 
Reserv. (219) 879-7373 

Law building, Hoynes Hall. <Hoynes later housed the Psychology Department until 1974. It is presently unoccupied.) 
So the School of Fine Arts gained un­contested control over the entire floor. 
It remained there untill953 when it moved to its present headquarters in O'Shaughnessy . 
The Art Gallery, by the way, moved from its infancy atop the fifth floor to the old Library <now the Architecture building) in 1917. The Gallery , of course, moved to O'Shuaghnessy with the Art Department in 1953. 
Since that date the fifth floor has been unused and barricaded. 
The Blockade explained 
"Why is it blocked off?" I asked. 
"There's no demand for the space," reasoned Fr. Wilson. "The wing on the third floor above Mr. Frick's office would be 
used first anyway." 
"Plus there's heating problems," he continued. "It requires more energy to pump the heat up that far." 
Then there's always four flights of stairs. Even the fourth floor with its three flights is known to the building's mail carries as the cardiac route. Some professors would not be able to lecture there, not to mention exhausted students. 
An interesting view of this problem ap­peared in the same Scholastic art ici~· which appeared describing the new Main building: 
"It is well known that the old College was too high, the upper story being practically useless on account of the long line of stairways to be climbed before reaching it. In the new building then htere is not only much more actual room, but that room is nearer the first floor, and hence, much more unusable." 
Wilson warns of the dangers involved in breaking up. Although the fifth floor affords a magnificent view of the Dome, a fall down the Dome's corridor would cover three deep stories. 
Climbing the Dome A popular trick in former days was to climb to the Dome. One method is to climb the outside fire escapes. Another is to use the stirway whose door is found on the fifth floor. 
This is not your average door. It is pad­
locked and metal-sheeted. 
"Too many students were breaking in,'' 
Fr. Wilson simply explained. Actually the 
door leads to the high circular balcony first, 
then another staircase leads to the Dome. 
< Wilson related the esc~pades of one · ·. ·.· of za11y students who \\ere ap­before they wen• able to sca)e the unusual. Only these feilows ~'"-'"!'..~'"" and picks. 
Ghosts of Art 
group celebrated a football 
stealing up to the fifth floor and 
of the door sups ide down. To add 
to the Security force, these 
pranksters snuck back up that same night 
and turned the doors right side up. 
So the "mystery" of the fifth floor is partially dispelled. Gaping. Deteriorating. Picturesque. Nothing haunts the fifth floors but the ghosts of art . 

. \')' 
,.,.
.. ···: 

Thursday, .June 26, 1975 the observer 
Ford's Presidential Hopes 

r:~arry will;" autrider 
President Ford has everything goingtfol, p~ign., The basis of ~he lan~slide was ~imply campaign strategist, and the only one who I side. The normal thing to do in such him. He is an incumbent. He can give "the' NI.xon s 1968 plurahty ' With Wallace s 1968 said out loud that the Wallace people political clashes over a symbol is to let them economy those little shots that are now third party yote added to it. The Southern. belonged with Nixon. That got him sup­
kill each other off, and then put in a neutral 
customary just before election time. It is an strategy. paid off. B.v 1972, Nixon had ex-planted by Harry Dent, but it also took him 
third man. That constitutes a concession to advantage not to have been elected when the tended his ~wn mar~ms. and Wallace nad out of scandal's way. His record, for Ford's either side, and it picks up some support last two elections for our two top leaders added to hls own kmd of Agnewer-than purposes, was doubly good in the Pentagon-­. from the third man's well-wishers. gave us Agnew and Nixon. thou appeal. Put those . two . he godf~thered the volunteer army, which The Nixon pardon was perhaps the together: and you had a landshd~ to :V~lch pleases libertarians on the right; and he cut shrewdest move Ford made, and the one McGovern brought only a cert?m s.mcldal Leiutenant Calley's sentence, which pleases Reagan and Rockefeller are both very old 
that will reelect him. It did not get rid of flair. No Democrat could beat Nixon m 1972. the authoritarian right. to be given the task of taking over the Watergate , but it resolved his particular And no Democrat can beat Ford in 1976, That 1 a F d . t . 1 presidency, if need be, three or four years Watergate problem. It adml"tted the cr1·mes unless a national third party (not just the . e ves or JUS where the Nixon from now, when both men will be pushing 
. . . was m 1968 and 1972 Purists might f

in order to dismiss them. If that made him regwnal Wallace one of 1968) IS established R . : pre era 70.The choice of either man cuts off a ·'soft on Nixon," nothing could be nicer from on the right. Ford is wooing the Nixon ise~~an, :nd ~m~ur:~ts a Wallace--but Ford chance to groom leaders for the upcoming
0

his own point of view. cons~ituency , and he will win ~ll. but its favors.on w IS ere, and is doing the I ~ears.lt would ?e no l.oss to Ford if 
craz1er sorts. The proof that th1s 1s a con-I ideologues on e1ther s1de used up all their 
What should not be forgotten--what others scious matter of strategy with him is con-energies heading off the choice of either forget, but never Ford--is simply this: The firmed by the choice of Bo Callaway to be Rockefeller remains the major pretext for Reagan or Rockefeller for vice president, so Nixon constituency is still out there. That his campaign manager. The choice is dissatisfication on the right--and he can be that Ford could step in as the healer. It is an landslide election of 1972 was not a fluke, perfect. sacrificed if necessary. Not to be replaced act he is polishing all the time. He is a pro, caused by an ineffectual McGovern cam-Callaway was Nixon's first southern by Regan. That would just anger the other after all 

Founded November 3, 1966  
Fred Graver  Editor-in-Chief  
Andy Praschak  Associate Editor  
Ed Pawlowski  Advertising Manager  
Judy Smith  IUSB Editor  
Bob Tracy '  Ad Layout  
Candy Frankovelgia  Production Manager  News:  283-1715  
Sue Zwick  Production Manager  Business:  283-7471  
·chris Smith  Photo Editor  Editorials:  283-8661  

Thursday, June 26, 1975 







IUSB PLAYERS GUILD 
Shoestring Theatre Presents 
"A DAY IN THE DEATH OF JOE EGG" 

by Peter Nichols 
II'Oduced in cooperation with Sa11ual Frtnth Inc. 
OPENS Friday June 27 
Running Sat. June 28, Sun. June 29, Fri. July 4, Sal July 5, Sun. July 6 
performances start at 8:15 Little Theater 

entrance on greenlawn 
All Tickets S1.50 -Call 237·4396 For Reservations 

seriously! falks 


Franchising the 
CIA 
art buchwald 
WASHINGTON--You know the fellow in the TV commercials who 
sold his friend stock in a company making electric forks? Well, he 
came to see me the other day with a great idea. 
"I want to franchise the CIA," he said. 
"What do you mean?" I asked. 
"Well, with the 'Rockefeller Commission's report and all the 
hearings going on, the CIA is the biggest thing since fried chicken. 
Every government, from the left to the right, needs the CIA .and we 
can sell franchises all over the world." 
"Why would they need a CIA?" 
"From now on anyone running for office will have to claim his 
opponent is financed by the CIA. If someone dies of old age, his 
political party can say the CIA killed him. If a crop fails, the head 
of state can say the CIA poisoned the water.A train wreck, an 
t>arthquake, a plague--all can be blamed on the CIA. It gives every 
government a free rein to do what it wants in the name of fighting a 
CIA plot." . 
I couldn't disagree with him. 

"Let's say a general who is in charge of a junta wants to knock off 
Ihree of his colonels for .one reason or another. He arrests them for 
plotting with the CIA to overthrow him. Our franchise provides the 
evidence, and after the trial, it's off with their heads." 
"I understand how important it is for everyone to have a CIA to kick around, "I said. "What I don't understand is why these countries would want to deal with a franchise. Why can't they just accuse the CIA of all the dastardly deeds without paying for the 
privilege?" 

"Because they need a license. You can't open up a McDonald's 
or a Kentucky Fried Chicken in a foreign country without obtaining 
a franchise. The same thing will go for the CIA. Once we register it 
with the patent office, no one will be able to accuse the CIA of 
anything unless they go through a legitimately franchised CIA 
shop." 

"What will they get besides the right to accuse the CIA of plotting 
against them?" 

"We'll provide tape recorders, short-wave radios, poison darts, 
cigarette cameras, false heels, gun silencers, mail-opening 
facilities and LSD. The country who buys the franchise will get free 
advertising, and we will train its employees. But they'll have to 
keep the premises clean. No one likes a dirty CIA store." 
"Kentucky Fried Chicken has Colonel Sanders and McDonald's 
has Ronald McDonald to represent them. Do you have any 
charismatic figure whose ptcture you can put on each franchise 
wall?" I asked. 

"We thought we might sign up Dick Helms to be our Colonel 
Sanders, if he would agree to dye his hair white and grow a beard." 
"I don't imagine Castro would be interested?"! said. 
"No, he doesn't want to work for the company ,, 
but he has asked to purchase the first franchise. The CIA has done 
him a lot of good in Cuba." 

"Do you have anything like a McDonald's arch that would be 
easily recognized by someone driving by?" 
"We've been playing around with a few logoii.Someone suggested 
we fly a red wig and false nose from the building. Of course, if 
Helms look the job we could put his picture in lights. But it really 
isn't that important. The beauty of the CIA is that it's a household 
word in every country in the world." 
"I'll be honest with you,"I said. "When you first suggested in­
vesting in your plan, I was going to stash my money in a savings 
and loan. But now that you've explained it to me, I want part of the 
action. Besides investing moneyin the parent company, can I buy a 
franchise somewhere as well?" 

"Sure, we stiil have a few open. Where do you want one?" 
"Portugal'!" 

"I'm sorry. That one's been spoken for already." 
(I I I I 

the observer Thursday, June-26, 1975 


PHONE 232-7976 

COME ON IN­WE DELIVER HAPPINESS. 

~~1ST 
GIFTS 

111 WEST WAYNE ST. 
around the corner from Robertsons 

************************************ 
•··-.•
i If You Have A Thirst: 
·! * 
* * 
~ Visit the... ~ 
* * 
* * 



!* * RUSTY NAIL i* * 
* *
* ~
i 301 S. Michigan ·$ * *
* * 
: South Bend : * * 
•* * 
-.. 

THROWING A PARTY?? 
HELPING YOU IS OUR BUSINESS 
5 OF THE HA~NDIEST SPOTS IN TOWN 
1. HANDY SPOT PARTY SHOPPE 
1426 Mishawaka Ave. 
172.5 N. Ironwood 

• WINES • GOURMET FOODS 
• LIQUORS • PARTY SUPPLIES 
• COLD BEER 

"If it's available, we will get it for you." 
FREE DELIVERY 

287-7744 

3. ROSELAND PARTY SHOPPE 
113 DixieWay N. 
4. GOLDEN FLASK PARTY SHOPPE 
413 Hickory Rd. at McKinley 
5. PARTY SHOPPE SOUTH 
4401 S. Michigan at Ireland 
OF SOUTH BEND 

"TOTO, I DON'T . THINK WE 
a guide to south bend-mishawak 
A Short History 
When Rene Robert Cavalier de La Salle stepped foot in Indiana, there were already a tribe of Miami Indians planted in what is now South Bend. Pierre Navarre became its first white resident when, in 1802, he married a Pot.awatomi Squaw and, in what has become a long tradition, convinced her to stick around until something better turned up' It did . Twenty-one years later, when Alexis Coquillard, of the enormous gravestone on Notre Dame avenue, opened up a trading post on the banks of the St. Joseph River. 
Coquillard called the community "Big St. Joseph Station" and the name was shortened to "St. Joseph's". Then, when the area was infiltrated by anti-religious forces, the name became "South Hold," which was far inferior in the eyes of Mr. Coquillard to the former name. In 1830, after a long identity crisis, the town became known as South Bend. · 
Industry sprouted immediately along the banks of the St. Joseph river. Coquillard founded a flour mill and sawmill. Then, in 1852, the Studebaker Brothers arrived and set up their internationally famous motor company, bringing in thous1,1.nds of workers, many of whose descendants are still here. 
In the Parks 
The St. Joseph River, winding its way through the South Bend-Mishawaka area, has given the community a "veritable plethora" of parks and picnic spots. The South Bend city planners saw to it .that the citizen's need for pleasant parks and recreational areas was filled. The numerous city parks, zoos and playgrounds provide pleasant locations for Sunday af­ternoons in the sun or any afternoons or morning for that matter. 
South Bend-Mishawaka's parks are used by everyone and there are recreation ac­tivities for all, including volleyball, basketball, handicrafts, tennis, swimming and senior citizen's programs; great ego­builders for those under lhe age of thirty. 
Swimmers have their choice of medium or Olympic-sized pools, indoor or out, or the beach at Pinhook Park, which is located on a beautiful 15-acre natural l~.ke tract. 
For tennis buffs, there are the courts behind the A.C.C. on campus, or the nearby Leeper Park Tennis Center, with 15 lighted, all-weather courts. 
Golfers wishing to sharpen their game, and tiring of the Notre Dame links, can take their choice of one of the seven public or two private course in the area. 
ON THE TOWN 
South Bend is not without its night life. 
There are several bars in the area that 
feature entertainment, dancing, live bands, 
and all of the elements necessary to 
assimilate the nocturnal debauchery. 
The corner of Corby and Eddy streets has 
become a legendary watering hole for Notre 
Dame students. One can find here four 
favorite student bars. The newest of these is 
Bridget McGuire's, which features a 20's 
style decor, taped rock'n'roll, and an at­
mosphere totally conducive to friendly 
drinking. 
Across the street from Bridget's is 
Nickies, which is just making the change to 
entertainment on the weekends. Nickies 
offers a c@nce floor, pool tables, and some of 
the best llamburgers in town, just in case 
drinking gives'you the munchies. 
The black exterior of Corby's may scare 
the uninitiated away, and a look at the 
clientele after midnight may also do the 
same, but to those who call it home, Corby's 
offers the uttimate in the drinkin:, ex­
perience._ Take it as you can.. 

The Mishawaka community began more than 100 years ago. The town is named after the romantic figure of Princess Mishawaka, 
_ the daughter of Shawnee chief Elkhart, who had a village of his own named after him. She had a blazing romance with the white hunter "Dead Shot," and the story revolves around her abduction by Grey Wold, with a subsequent rescue by Dead Shot. James Fenimore Cooper notwithstanding, the town has grown to what it is today. 
The first white man to enter the present day site of Mishawka was lost. Searching for his portage, and separated from his companions, La Salle was forced to travel east along the edge of a swamp before he could regain the river in the vicinity of Baugo Creek. <These names are worth the reading of the history.) Spending a night in the Indian camp, where it is rumored he met Princess Mishawaka, he rejoined his friends the next morning, pronouncing the area "a beautiful site for a town." 
Today, the South Bend-Mishawaka area has a population of over 230,000 people. There are a good many parks, recreational facilities and places of interest, if one takes the time to seek them out. Ever growing and developing, the South Bend-Mishawka community offers its citizens the chance to say, proudly," It's home to me." 
Plant and flower lovers can view the horticultural marvels of the upper Indiana Conservatories at either the Ella L. Morris Conservatory or the Mussel-Ellison Tropical Gardens in Potowatomi Park. 
The community has two fine zoos. Children's Storyland Zoo is located in Rum Village Park. On view are deer, llama, black bears, chimpanzees, and numerous domestic animals, which are available for petting and other amusements. 
The Potowatomi Park Zoo contains the larger animals, bison, lions, and camels, as well as such favorites as the wallabies, dingoes and the "one and only" hairy ar­madillo. 
The heavily wooded countryside of Michiana has ample opportunity for hiking, bicycling and hunting. Just ten miles west of South Bend is Bendix Woods, where fishermen drop their lines and hikers enjoy a brisk walk around the premises, a favorite spot for a "day in the woods," including picnicking and general frivolity. 
Just 30 miles away from South Bend is Lake Michigan. The giant lake, with its sand dunes and many public beaches, is just a short drive away, and well worth the trip. The Warren Dunes and the Indiana Dunes have become student favorites over the years for the extreme change of pace and scenery from the university setting. 
Moving away/from the infamous corner, one can head up South Bend Avenue to Louies, whi~h becomes more of a bar than a restaurant as the night wears on, but still retains its jolly atmosphere. 
In South Bend, are two bars of note: Sweeney's and Fat Wally's. Sweeney's is everything you could imagine in a Notre Dame bar.. Fat Wally's is a bar-night club frequented by those slightly above student age; they have entertainment five nights a 
week. 

In Mishawaka, one can find Bill Nagy's Hideaway, which calls itself "Michiami's Top Rock Night Club"; they have dancing every weekend, and highlight the occasional 
concert. 

Up in Michigan, we find the "Rock of Michiana," Shula's. They feature Rock Night Club acts, which specialize in a type of hy-brid of the Night Club-Show a and the Dance Band. A large dance arec. and an expansive bar, both in tastes and in physical size, can be found here. 
Also in Michigan is the White House Inn only recently discovered by students. They have dancing and entertainment, and cater to a slightly less flamboyant crowd than Shula's. Some say it's not as much fun. 



---------~----­
EIN KANSAS ANYMOR 
SHOPPING: River Bend Plaza 
and others 
One hundred years ago, shopping in South Bend was extremely limited. Most of the women made their own clothes, as well as the clothing of their families. Food was wither bartered for at the local general store, or was entirely prepared at home. Today, the picture is entirely changed. Huge shopping centers dot the outskirts of the city and a complete pedestrian mall fills ~he center. 
The preparation in South Bend for the 
bicentennial goes beyond the painting of fire 
hydrants. A new comcenter, "Century 
Center," is scheduled to be completed and 
opened on July 4, 1976. It will house a 
convention center, an art center, recreation 
and education facilities, the Studebaker 
Museum <in this corner, the 1957 Rambler) 
and a theatre for community events. It has 
been architecturally designed to com­
plement its location on the banks of the St. 
Joe. 

Tht> Hiver Bend Plaza, along Michigan Street, is the core of the retail area in South Bend, and offers a relief for shoppers tired of the sterile shopping center atmosphere. The pedestrian mall, with canopy-covered walks, trees and planters, pools and sculpture, and many other· attractive conveniences, offers a unique shopping experience. Most of the stores welcome the casual browsing which the mall lends itself to. The plaza is also a center for civic and community activities, such as the welcoming of President Ford. 
Those looking for an enclosed shopping center can turn to Scottsdale Mall. More than 100 stores can be found here, layered on two levels. Scottsdale is typical of the large modern shopping complexes that have 
Wining and Dining 
South Bend-Mishawaka's restaurants run the gamut from classic greasy spoons to the finest in elegant dining At any rate, a restaurant can be found to offer even the slimmest pocketbook or wallet a pleasant reprieve from the Notre Dame Dining Hall or rushed home cooking. 
Starting at the lower-income brack~t and moving up, we find three McDonald's m the area, all of them on U.S. 31. If the golden arches seem like goldes armpits to you (and who doesn't get that feeling every once and a while, despite the way they've ingrained themselves into our beings), you can settle into an Azar's Big Boy, of which there are two in the area. Never lacking in fast food franchises, the area also offers a Burger 
King, several Kentucky Fried Chicken 
stands, and various independent fast-food 
havens. 

Now, if all of that is too much for your 
sensitive taste buds, there is some recourse 
in just a slightly higher price bra~ket. T~e 
first of these is the J&J Grill, wh1ch also IS 
one of the finer 24-hour spots in town. The 
service is good, the prices are reasonable 
and the food is adequate. The J&J also 
offers a juke box and pinball machine. Who 
could ask for more? 

Other 24-hour spots are Denny's. the 
White House in Mishawaka and the White 
House on the Michigan line (or somewhat 
near there.) 

Now -getting irllo. the heavier scenes, as 
they say on FM radio, we have the many 
fine pizza and snack places in the area. Just 
down Notre Dame Avenue is the colorful 
Louies. Louie himself is quite a character, 
and the atmosphere refl~ct_s his jolly spirits. 
sprung up on the outskirts of cities all over America. In the center of the large walk­ways are rest areas and fountains, giving a comfortable atmosphere to the expansive development. 
One of the most unusual shopping com­plexes to be found anywhere is the 100 Center, built in the main building of a for­mer brewery. Most of the stores cater to the less-than-practical tastes, many of them are what can be called gift shops. It's a good place just to browse around and spend an afternoon. The pace is quite a bit more relaxed than anywhere else in South Bend, though the prices here can cause the tension to rise a bit. 
At the 100 Center, you can wind your way upstairs and downstairs in the main building of the brewery, or step outside for a venture into one of the annexes. The 100 Center also features an excellent movie theatre, which shows films long after they have seen their premiere days, but at a much deflated rate. 
The unusual experiences of the 100 Center include a venture into the cheese world to a discovery in the art gallery, a meal in what once was the brewery's ice house, even a visit to the former stables which have been converted into an antique shop. 
Farmer's Market can offer you an ex­citing morning trip' Crowded aisles of jostling shoppers make their way through bins of fruits and fresh vegetables in this old-world atmosphere. Fresh flowers during this time of year add a touch of festivity as shoppers purchase fresh meat and fowl, and eggs that are practically still warm from the hen. The small restaurant serves excellent breakfasts at very reasonable rates. Remember, come early, you're on farmers' hours. 
Close to the Notre Dame campus is the Town and Country Shopping Center and the newly formed College Square complex. The Town and Country features more than 40 stores, restaurants and shops, as well as a mini-mall and movie theatre. The College Square features a tobacco shop, a jewelry store and a record shop. 
Down the street and down the hill is Milano's which features "East Coast Piz­za," whatever that is. In the River Bend Plaza, n.ext to the Morris Civic, is the Roma, home of concert goers and other assorted clientele. 
If you're looking for a meal that lends itself a bit more to the occasion, there are many fine restaurants that will stretch your budget enough to let you know you've been out on the town, but not enough to put you in the poor house. The Boar's Head, a short drive from campus, offers an exceptional beef and seafood menu in an old-world at­mosphere. The Capri, just down Angela Boulevard, offers fine Italian food in an 
<dndisputably Italian-American setting. The Hans Haus, on 31, just past the River Bend Plaza, offers distinctive German-American food. Large portions, pleasant atmosphere and great service make this a fine place for a meaLip Mishawaks, Holly's Landing, is on the banks of the scenic St. Joseph River and offers a fine salad bar and very good food at good prices. 
Finally, of you're looking to shoot the . works (and who not, you're .only in South B Bend once!) the area offers sonie very fine, and fairly expensive, dining,.r(loms. But, if you're into putting on the aog, then who's 
counting  the  pennies,  or  the  dollars,  or  
whatever?  
The Down Under,  near  near  Scottsdale·  

Mall, is one of the finer restaurants in the area. Excellent atmosphere, excellent food, excellent wines and drinks and an excellent room make this worth it in the bucks department. ·• 
The Wooden Keg has been a student favorite for years. They have very good food, very pleasant service, and an at­mosphere that is not overly oppressive. 
Finally, there's the Morris Inn .If you're a Trustee, an Administrator, or an officer of the University, or enjoy watchin one of the above eat, then this is the place for you. Otherwise, the prices are hot and the food is lukewarm. The view offers you the expanse of the Notre Dame Golf Course. 

-------·--~---------~ -------~
-Thursday, .Junt> 26, 1975 
House Painting 
DOES YOUR HOME NEED PAINTING? EXPERIENCED PAINTERS <TWO N.D. GRADUATES) WILL PAINT INTERIOR­EXTERIOR 
VERY REASONABLE!! 
CALL 234-1889 For Free 
Estimate 
HAND SELECTED PLANTS FOR YOUR DORMS, APART­MENTS AND OTHER 
HOMES.  
Also  other  items  that  
give  'a  touch'  of  
character.  

Give character to your 
domicile. 
'-~· .;:· 
....... 
AT 
I 
~ 
~ 

=2923 MISH. AVE. PARK THEATRE ' 
......................................................................................, 
THE PLAZA'S BEST PLACE TO COOLOFF 


PLAZA ICE CREAM PARLOR 
FEATURING 32 FLAVORS -SANDWICHES -SOFT DRINKS 106 W. Wayne 

288-1178 I 
A Fun SERVICE RE<:oRu STORE~ NEXT TO RIVER ~ 
the observer 
7 

,.---------~-,
I I I I I II 
I
I IT HAPPENED IN HOLLYWOOD I
I BUT IT COULD HAVE 
I
I HAPPENED IN HELL. 
I I I I I I I I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I THE DAY OF THE lOCUST I 
I ........DONALD SUTHERLANDI 
I KAREN BLACK 1 
I WILLIAM ATHERTON 1 
I BURGESS MEREDITH 1 
I --.IOittl HIUD"'"' I
I -GftALDINI PAGI Gl Big Slstef I 
............_.... MAntAUil Wl1fI .......... ..., WIIDO SAlf ........" ... ,...,...HIUMN I 




I ------Tii1 
___________..
L • 
ALL ELTON 
= 
JOHN'S 
ALBUMS = ALL = 
~ 
BEE GEE'S 
= 
THIS WEEK C' Nl Y ' 
j! 
l 
! 
1 
... 
.~ \'.• .. -... ·. '(' 

8 the observer Thursday, Junl' 26, 1975 , 
~----~~~~~~~~----------~~==· 




I USB 
addition, the student can take vocational tests through the University Division or the IUSB Counseling Center.

IUSB Presents New Plan for Dealing According to Love, at least fifty or sixty per cent of the students stay with the 
All across the country, students are taking courses which are required for graduation or to get into a graduate school. Most of these courses are unrelated to the student's majors. 
IUSB is no exception. Except at IUSB, students have a choice of what requirement courses they must take. 
According to Eugene Love, director of University Division at IUSB, the IU system has changed a great deal. IUSB is flexible in their requirements by letting the students choose courses. 
Love's officecounsels incoming freshmen on courses that can be taken at the fresh­man level for a required course. He also noted the variety of courses the students can take throughout his or her college career towards a degree program. 
Traditionally, colleges and universities have a certain curriculum of requirements which a student must take before he or she graduates. IUSB gives a student a choice of courses. However, the student must take a certain numberof courses in a particular school. In Arts and Sciences, for example, a student must take two sciences, two maths and four humanitites to get a degree-plus those subjects specified for their major. 
Requirements are becoming more flexible . The one requirement all students must take at IUSB is 131, English Com­position. But a writing class may substitute for this if designated in the Schedule .of Classes. 
Love said the University Division does not push students into deciding on a major for the first two years. Before 1970, a student had to declare a major. Sophomores in the University Division are counseled on the best career for the individual student. In 

Red Tape 

with Required Courses 


Engulfs IUSB 

Parking Lot Improvements 
If students want the chuckholes in the parking lot repaired, the time may come when they will have to do it themselves , if something is to be done. 
According to a reliable source, the money from IUSB's paid parking is tied up somewhere between IUSB, IU in Bloomington and the State Government. The state must approve the plans for renovating the parking lot. As yet, the state has not given a reply on the parking lot repairs. 
A source in the IUSB business office said all of the financial arrangements and specifications have been made, All that is needed is for contractors to bid on the job. The holdup, according to the busineess office , is the State Government. 
By paying for parking decals, students faculty and staff are putting money into a fund towards the supposed improvements of the parking lot. This is the only way the money can be spent. 
Violators of the parking rules (no decals, not registering a car , parking in a no parking zone) end up with a ticket and a fine. The fine money is put into a cholarship fund called the South Bend Campus Student Aid Fund. The fund is a general fund which students who have a certain GPA can draw from, according to Laarry McDaniel, financial aid officer. The fund is also used for students who make the honor list. They each receive $25 from this fund. 
Nester P. Stachowicz, safety and security 
officer, said a ticket would be given for the 
transfer of parking decals. A student must 
have one decal per car. 
"If a student already has a decal and 
needs a decal because of car trouble, the 
student can get a temporary decal for up to 
a week," said Stachowicz. 
IUSB is not the only university having to L.L. Waters, IU professor of tran­sportation, the university will not black-top two parking areas on the Bloomington campus. Thereason being the high price of black-top, which is made of oil. 

Bicycle paths in Bloomington were stopped even before they got started because of the tremendous jump in the price of the product. 
Some contractors now are literally afraid of bidding for jobs because almost anything can happen to prices -during the penod 
between design work and actual 
.. 

tr9ubleswith paving parking lots. AccoJ:diJIIglf-___.:._.__:.:.:_._____....:.:;:._..__.__:___.:.___.:.""-.; 
construction. Not only are concerned with the materials, but they must pay 15 per cent interest rates on money they must borrow to finance the jobs. 
If IUSB runs into this problem , there will be another delay in getting the parking lot paved. 
What about the chuckholes and the poor lighting in the parking lot'? If these things are going to be fixed soon, the best thing to do is to start a gravel collection and find electrician majors -just in case University Division through their sophomore year. 
Love had some explanations for the required curriculum. Traditionalists believe that a lot of courses would make a student a well rounded person. They also say colleges and universities who have a few requirements and with a wide range of choices are "missing the boat." Some professors complain about students who can not speak or write properly. Finally, a lot of graduate schools require certain courses in college for attendance 
A whole revamp of the U.S. educational system would have to be changed before the required courses could be eliminated, ac­cording to. Love. This would include the junior grades through high school. 
"Kids today are a lot brighter. We have some students who are high school students taking courses at IUSB ,"said Love. 
The high school students taking courses must have some orereauisites . The students must be a junior or senior and must have a high grade point average. In ad­dition, the student must have permission from his or her counselor and principal must take a college entrance exam. 
In years to come , according to Love, the four year concept at high schools will end. This will have some implication for colleges and universities to change. 
Freshmen orientation at IUSB gives the individual the option of counseling and advice on courses to take for the first two semesters. The University set up a five day program for atudents to come in and talk with some one about the required courses in the schools of Business, Education, Arts and Sciences, Music and Dental Hygene . The IUSB bulletin also has courses listed and explains which course is acceptable for a requirement to graduate in a certain school. 
Love said universities must meet the student's needs in the form of curricul urn. Changes in the education system are slow. 
It is a slow process. "It is a problem for students who think theirs should be a better solution for the required curriculum," said Love 


ND -!USB 
IUSB Registration to be Held 
Registration for Indiana University at South Bend's second summer-session willbe held on the campus Wednesday and Thursday, July 2 and 3. 
Classes for the six -week session will begin July 7 and run through Aug. 15. 
Schedules listing available classes can be picked up at the registrar's office in Northside Hall, or can be requested by mail from the university-relations of­fice. 
Prospective students can obtain registration cards in divisional offices June 25, 26 and 27. Student­data cards will be issued on the same days near the registrar's office. Both cards will also be available on registration day. 
Beulah P. Schwanke, IUSB registrar, urged enrolling students to bring an accurate Social Security number to the registration process. 

Times and priorities for the registration pracedure are in­..:-.JU' eluded in the Class schedules 
Thursd ay, June 26, 1975 the observer 



IUSB Receives Grant for Deve10pme_n_t 
Transportation 
FOR A SPECIAL OCCASION (OR FOR NO REASON AT ALL } 
SAY IT WITH FLOWERS or GIFTS 
from WYGANT FLORAL co. INC. 317 LWW SOUTH BEND 232-3354 
THIS WEEKEND 
AT 




N ICKIE'S 
Donee to ..QARTET" 
Every WED., FRI., & SAT. From 10:00 p.m. to 2:00a.m. Every Weekend This Month 
-NO COVER­-NO INCREASE IN PRICE­FREE PARKING -A&P LOT 
928 N. EDDY, S.B. (Just a Few Blocks South of NO} 
HAPPINESS IS 
Adding Not One But Two Experienced Hair Stylists to the Stall At VIVIAN'S HAIR DESIGN STUDIO 
PHIL KLINE EXPERT HAlRCUTTER SPECIALIZING IN BLO·CUTS 
one including all forms of tran­sportation from highways to rails on a track to airplane runways to the South Bend public bus system. 
IUSB will match the federal grant by other means than direct money described by William L. Ryan, S.P.E.A., as the in kind services. 
Some professors at IUSB will give their time to the land development or the planning of the program . Whatever is needed for the project, clerical help, use of the computer services and other 
supportive functions, will l)!e available at IUSB to the peop~ working on the project. 
Many innovative ideas for the project will be discussed in futw:1e meetings and seminars of the transportation planners. Otlls Romine, head of the Business office, suggested an idea of a unirail system like the one Japan has, to run from Roseland and points in between to downtown South Bend. 
The project encourages anyone interested in transportation to get involved with planning of the program, according to Ryan. 
DeCoster said a project coor­dinator is being sought to get the program under way early in July. 
The grant covers a one-year period. 

South BendSymphonicCho i to Begin Tenth Season 



The South Bend Symphonic Choir, soon to begin its lOth season, has become an ensemble-in­residence at Indiana University at SSouth Bend. An agreement providing for the residency arrangement recently was ap­proved by representatives of the choir and IUSB. 
Members of the choir have chosen as its new conductor Robert 
W. Demaree, Jr., chairman of the IUSB division of music and associate professor of music. 
Speaking of the residency agreement, Demaree said the new arangement is consistent with IUSB's policy of developing sup­portive relationships with 
important community arts or anizations. He pointed to the 

Youth Symphony and the South Bend Recorder Society as parallels to the Symphonic Choir relationship. 
The South Bend Symphonic Choir was formed in 1966 and has performed frequently during the years since its founding. One appearance each season has been with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra. The choir has a tradition of performing major choral works; its repertoire has included such works as the Men­delssohn "Elijah," Britten's "Rejoice In the Lamb" and "Saint Nicholas," the Kodaly "Te Deum," and the Brahms "Song of Destiny." 
The current choir officers, res onsible for drafting the agreement with lUSH · mclude Glenn 0. Hunt, president; Mary Slafkosky, chairman of the board of directors; Robert Barkus, vice­president and Rachel Lorber, secretary-treasurer. Executive Committee members include Eleanor Gray, Joan Jurek, Ruth Myers, Ralph Myers, and William Coy. 
Demaree will be returning to choral conducting after a four-year absence from area podiums. 
During the 1975-76 season, the Symphonic Choir will appear with the South Bend Symphony Or­chestra in a December per­formance and will present fall and spring concerts at IUSB. Auditions for new members will be held early 



,..·~·~...,...,.."'JIIo."•~t,~A-.Joflo~#•••~·~·......,_,,_,•..._v~'*"'"....,~,. ~,...,.,.. .., ~.................,...,~• ~··~·'\i·'r·"'.t~ ... -...r..w• • • • • • a. • •" •"" "-"' •' "''r'...# ·• • ' ·.(
•

JURY DUTY ONE MAN'S 


DAY IN COURT 

by Andy Praschak Associate E·rlitor In an effort to unify student support at 
otre Dame this year, the student govern­ent conducted a massive voter 
egistration drive across campus. The drive as proclaimed a success, registering over wo thousand Notre Dame students. 
Nonetheless, as with any privilege ~ erson enjoys, a certain amount of esponsibility inevitably follows. Besides the responsibility of selecting the most qualified candidates on election day, a person registering to vote in St. Joseph County, as in any part of the United States, must face the fact of placing his name on a 
am considering having my name taken off the registration list in ·Indiana," he said. 
"I first received a letter from the St. Joseph Superior Court at the beginning of February," he explained. According to Boyie, the letter explained that his name was randomly chosen for duty. Also in­cluded in the letter was the fact that he would recieve a salary of $7.50 for every full day he was required to spend in court and an allowance of eleven cents a mile for his trips to the courthouse, located in downtown South Bend. 
It was noted in the form letter that an attempt would be made to contact him at least forty-eight hours before he was 

ist of prospective jury members. re uired to appear in court, "although this 
"Jury service became such ani l inconvenience to me that I eventually stopped answering my phone... " 
~---------------------------------~~th~~~~yMd~di:~~re~rt 
In the state of Indiana, the only vehicle may not always be ~ssible." for anoth~r case on Thu!sday! he sai~. For used to determinte who will be called for Boyle was also requ~ted to fill out the Boyle, this would be QUite an mconven~ence~ jury duty is the voter registration book. enclosed questionnaire and return it to the He pointed out that not only was he m the 
. d' ed b h B h . d I . process of runni'ng for Notre Dam~ Student
This procedure IS 1ctat y t e urns court ouse 1mme iate y. The qu~tionnaired d · h Body Pres1'dent, but hi's parents wereth Ind.
Indiana Statutes, passed by e 1ana included stan ar questions sue as name, Coml·ng to South Ben·d for Jun1'or Parentslegislature. address, occupation and name of wife or 
According to Sue Schwart7;, Personal husband. Also on the questionnaire were Weekend. "I spoke to the bailiff, explaininK 
Secretary to Judge Douglas Seely, questions about any previous experience on the situation and being very understanding, 
prospective jurors for the St. Joseph County a jury and also any connections with any he excused me from this case," said Boyle. 
Court are selected by the two existing jucy previous law suits. The letter stated that if Between this incident and his official 
commissioners. "These commissioners are appointed by the presiding judge," said Sch­wartz. 
She explained that she was unable to describe the exact process used by the commissioners to select prospective jurors. "They simply go through the registration books and select the names at random," she said. Schwart7; was able, however, to state .hat no type of computer or other nechanical device was used to insure a 
completely random selection of names. 


become a grim reality. According to the 
Honorable Harlan F. Stone, former Chief 
Justice of the United States, "Jury service 
is one of the highest duties of citi7;enship, for 
by it the citi7;en participates in the ad­
ministration of justice between man and 
man and between government and the 
individual." 

According to Patrick Boyle;. a Notre Dame student who has been chosen for jury duty in St. Joseph County, "Jury service became such an inconvenience that I eventually stopped answering my :elephone." He summed up his period of jury duty as being "six weeks of constant 
ag~ravation" 

Boyle is a junior this year, enrolled in the \merican · Studies Program at the University of Notre Dame. This is the first year he chose to register in South Bend rather than his hometown of Berger City, New Jersey. And after his recent bout with jury duty, it may be his last. "Right now I 
the form was not returned within a period of sitting in on an entire case, Boyle ex-
ten days, he would be visited by a sheriff presenting a supboena requesting his ap­pearance in court. 
Boyle returned the completed question­
naire and was called Thursday, 
February 27 and told to report to the 
courthouse Monday morning. "My 
housemate took the message and explained 
to the lady on the phone that I may be unable 
to be there. because I was a student," 
recalled Boyle. According to him, the lady 

Schwartz explained that very few people noted that being a student made him no less are exempted from duty' once their name an American and he would be expected on has been chosen. "By law, the only people Monday. automatically excused from duty are police Despite the inconvenience it caused, officers, firemen, dentists and Boyle took off from school on Monday and veterinarians," she recited. She also ex-arrived in court. He said that his first' day plained that persons sixty-five years of age as a juror proved quite di!!couraging. "We or over are automatically excused, upon were informed of our responsibilities and request. then we spent the entire afternoon listening 
It was noted by Schwartz that haVing the to the opening statements of the plaintiff status of stu!ient in no way m~ts. the and the defendant," said Boyle. He con-qualifications for being exempted from tinued by saying tha~ they wer~ given a duty. "Unless, of course they are attending reces~ ~round three o cloc~ and mstru~ted school out of St. Joseph County," she added. to wait m the chambers until further notice. 
For at least one Notre Dame student the The judge returned shortly and told the responsibility of serving on a jury 'has· jurors that the lawyers had se!tled the 
matter out of court. "What th1s really meant was that the entire day had been in 

vain and we would be expected to return to hear another case at a later date," he said. 
For Boyle, this was only the beginning of the aggravation he would experience during his six week period of jury duty. The next 
.call came only a few days later and as the that he became very irritated with the system and started to refuse to answer his phone. 
The time finally came when he spent his full day in court as a juror. "The case took the entire day and I earned the $7.50 they 
original letter had warned, a forty-eight hour had promised," he said. If the rumors that 
notice was not possible.; Boy!~ wast~ report to court the next mornmg. I wasn t home and my housemate took the message," he said. He. went on to explain that because of exte~uatmg c1rcumst~nc~s, he had n~t received the message m hme to make h1s appearance in court. 
"I was awoken by a call from the cour­thouse around ten o'clock in the morning," 
· d "Th 1 d k d h 1hadn't
he exp lame . e a y as e w Y 

d · 't th t d " h t' d
appeare m cour a ay, e con mue .
'd th t h h d · d th
BoyIe sa1 a e a exp1ame e 
· t' b t th · th th d f th 
s1tua IOn u . e vmce on e 0 er en ° .e telep~one ~~1ll seemed to sound qUite skephc~l. I.f I remember c?~rectly.' she was bemg QUite snotty t~ me,. he said. 
Boyle noted that followmg this e~coun~er, he had. what seem to be ,?n of hiS better memones of the ordeal. . They called me 
"I am considering having my name taken off the registration list 'in Indiana." 
perienced what he termed to be the most aggravating of all the situations. "Many times they would call me two days before a case was scheduled and request my ap­pearance. Then, at the last minute, they would call back and say that the case had. been cancelled. 
Boyle noted that this situation . caused more inconvenience than it may at first seem. "Knowing that I was scheduled to appear in court on a certain day. I would postpone preparing for that day's classes," he said. He continued, "Obviously, when the case was ~stponed, I would be forced to show up for class totally unprepared, still waiting for my chance to do my duty as an American citizen." 
Boyle noted that it was around this time 
Boyle heard hold true, he can expect to 
receive a check for $7.50 in about eleven 
months. 

Looking back· on the entire situation, 
Boyle notes that if he had reported for duty 
all the days he was supposed to, his 
academic standing would be quite different 
right now. 
. . 

Many believe that selectmg people for 
. d t d t t f

Jury uty can ac as a e erren or 
. . I h' · 

reg1sterrmg to vote. n t IS parhcu1ar case, 
. b d h · ld b d

1t may e assume t at It cou e use as 
a·n instrument to discourage Notre Dame students from registerring in South Bend.­However, Boyle pointed out that he can only remember coming in contact with one other student that had been chosen. "She was a St. Mary's student who had been excused because her father was directly involved 
~th~~~~q~ed,"~~d."~& 
than her, I can't remember meeting anyone under the age of thirty," he recalled. He -
said that most of his fellow jurymen were
ld 1 1 d' d f 
e er Y a Jes an a ew men.

"I · h h 1 t f 
must pomt out t at t ere were a o o times when I was treated verycourteously ' he noted. He also noted that he wasn't treated any differently because he was a student. "I was only inconvenienced more than .most because I had my academic 
responsibilities while most of the others 
were housewives who enjoyed the work on 
the jury," he said. 

Boyle believes that the idea of using the voter registration list· is the most effective method of choosing jury members. "In this way, the most concerned citi7;ens, those who are willing to register to vote, are ·chosen," he said. However, as mentione«;l previously, he is considering taking his name off the list in order to avoid being called again. "I wouldn't be able to handle going through all this again," he explained. 
Boyle pointed out that he feels there needs to be a more controlled system than exists now. "I met one lady who had served during the summer and was called again this spring," he explaiqed. The law provides that a person may be excused of he has served within two years of the time he has again been called. However, Boyle ex­plained that a more suitable time for this to occur would be ten years. 
The law provides that a veterinarian may be automatically excused, but not a student. 
No one available seemed to be able to ex­.plain why a veterinarian is automatically excused. However, the reason a student must serve is because his status as a student· 
makes  him  no  less  an  American  than  
anybody else.  
The only possible  way  of changing this  

situation in the American system would be to vote for qualified officials who are willing to view the student as having as many responsibilities as the veterinarian. But then that would mean having to register to vote ... and that would mean ... Skip it! 




,l!fhur.sday, 'June· ~6:1119~5 
the"'ol?server 11 
--------'---" 


MEN-WOMEN 
If you're looking for an ordinary job, don't look here. 
l

Many jobs on this page require experience. Ours don't-just high standards and the desire to learn. (You'll be paid while you learn, too.) 
Many jobs pay a salary or wage. Our jobs include free medical and dental care food and hou_sing, a 30-day paid vacation e~ery year, besides a good salary. 
Many jobs offer you one kind of work. We offer you a .choice of training in over 300 good jobs. An~ •. 1f you Cj';Jalify, we'll guarantee your job trammg 1n wntmg, before you enlist. 
. And, finally, many jobs give you an opportu­mty to work for a company. Ours give you an opportunity to work for your Country. 
Call Army Opportunities 
232-1616 
Join the people who've joined the Army. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES 

Married couple needed for live-in to the Crazy Irishwoman and the house parents for foster home. "Dirty Old Man". Salary. Write: P.E.P. Inc. 3012 s. hi!! I love you, and i miss you, but 
Twyckenham, So. Benr It• J. 4cl\1.1 i'm up here getting famous. 
THANKS for the phone call-i'll send 

you one soon. INTERESTED IN NO FRILL LOW love always' your little peanut COST JET TRAVEL lo Europe, Africa, Middle East, Far East at minimum cost, maxin· Jm flexibility Coach· and minimum hass ~? For in· Boy, do I miss your face!! I thanx formation call EDUCATIONAL for the phone call, and i promise a FLIGHTS toll-free (8,;0) 223-5569 letter soon(promises, promises?> 
my love to you and your folks-I owe you one! 
WANTED love, zwicker

FEMALE HOUSEMAT E wanted for summer months.Ciose to N.D. Own room, $30 a month plus utiI. Call 234-patter, 1889 after 8p.m. Ask for Judy. thanx for the care package and the 
letters-you are too good to mel keep those cards and letters coming. youPERSONALS 

are helping me maintain my grace-sanity!!! a letter soon-love,
i'm in love-call me for details­suzann a 
mom has number-hurry! I need you­your h .s. buddy 
p.s. no letters you schmuck? I miss you up here..... 
• 0 ')' ,. r T0\ ~/I\ I
A , i\J V V I~ 
BEf~D 
en .... ,.....::::1 (_ 1 
CD 
' 
n 
A· 


w~ 
.....e 
' 

Charles Named ACtin 
~';'·_...;.,,.

A ~~~ Dean 
lsabPI Charles, O.P., assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters at the University of Notre 
DamP, has been named acting dean of the College by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president 
of lhP University. The appointment is effective September 1. 
A search committee for a permanent replacement for retiring Dean Frederick J. Crosson, which 
has been chaired by Dr. Charles, will continue its work, Father Hesburgh said. 
Dr. Charles did her undergraduate work at Manhattan College, Riverdale, N.Y., and received her 
M.A. and Ph.D. in English from Notre Dame. After a year of postdoctoral study in 1968 at the Center for lhe Study of Higher Education at the University of Michigan, she served as executive vice president and academic dean of Ohio Dominican College in Columbus, where she had previously taught for three years on the English faculty. When she came to the University in 1973 as assistant dean she was the first woman to hold that position at Notre Dame. Dr. Charles also holds a con­current appointment as associate professor of English. 
With about 2,000 students, Arts and Letters is Notre Dame's largest undergraduate College. 
BEAUTERIA BEAUTY SHOP 
To Accentuate Your Beauty 
River Bend Plaza 234-6213 
THE 

RESUME PLACE 
25 8 1/2 X 11 
RAG BOND 
Only $2.55 

insly·prints · 
203 N. MAIN SO.BEND, IND 
289-6977 
Time now stands still, and the beginning of your life is the Sunrise of tomorrow. 

V.~.ttfp,~~~ Co. 
/JiMmmuiJ '1lltklus::-Je"tlr1J 
CGnvenlenl Credit Te<mJ 
Certified Gemologists 
American Gem Society 
Phone 234-2919 


Thursda~·, .JuJu' 26. 1!17:i
12 the observer 






Kline Retires: .559 
leftfielder, was the team's most field. He might also want to d(l 
The first winning record since consistent hitter, rapping out a .318 something about teams from 1970 was the Notre Dame baseball average while underclassmen Stan Michigan <Detroit, Michigan team's going-away present to Bobowski (.247) and Jack Snyder State, Michigan, Ferris State) Coach Jake Kline who retired at (.262) shared the center-field slot. which handed the Irish seven the end of the season after 42 years Senior Mike O'Neill had a fine defeats in eight games. as head coach. The 17-14 mark season in right before a late season Tim McNeill, who served as brought the 80 year old coach's nosedive brought his average down assistant baseball and hockey final record to 552-436, a .559 to .222. coach this last year, has been percentage. The team broke to an A big reason for the Irish success named the new head baseball parly 14-7 record but a 3-7 finish was the all-underclass pitching coach. foilPd NO's NCAA tournament staff which combined for a 2.83 McNeill will devote his full at­hopes. ERA and limited opponents to less tention to the baseball program. 
The team was held together by than six hits a game. Junior Bob "I'm looking forward to this new its all-senior infield. Pat Coleman Stratta led the team in wins with challenge," says McNeill. ''I've hit over .300 for the third straight five <he also topped the team with always had a great interest in season. leading the club with a .329 22 RBI's as a designated hitter) baseball and I think I can make a mark. Shortstop Jim Smith (.294) ahd Mitch Stoltz was 3-1 with a 1.10 contribution to the program. Notre had a brilliant season in the field ERA. Freshman lefthander Don Dame baseball has a great while leading the team in runs Wolfe was NO's steadiest pitcher tradition thanks mainly to the scored with 21 and home runs with down the stretch finishing with a efforts of Jake Kline. I hope to be three. Captain Mark Schmitz at 2.70 ERA. On April 20 he No-hit able to continue this." first base had a somewhat Butler, the first hitless game by an McNeill gave up the head hockey disappointing senior campaign but Irish pitcher in 37 years. Strikeout job at St. Mary's College in still hit a steady .272 while Tommy artist Bob Hughes overcame some Winona, Minn., to come to Notre Miller (.207) contributed some control problems to win four Dame in 1968. During his three 1imPly hits and steady fielding, games while fellow sophomore Jim years at St. Mary's, the Redmen making just three errors all year. Sholl fanned a batter an inning were always contenders for league Seniors Tony Iarocci and Dave while posting a 2.78 ERA. honors, posting a 33-9 record in Doemel handled catching duties As the Kline Era ends, his league play. He also coached two along with freshman Dave successor will be greeted by a American Legion baseball state DeFacci. veteran pitching staff and con­champions during the summers. 
Mike Galloway, sophomore fronted by an inexoerienced in~ 
*Observer 


Sports 
Fallon Explains Tennis Success 
Notre Dame's tennis coach Tom number-oneslot. Carrico, a senior Fallon turned out to be a prophet. from Lake Forest, Ill., also se~~o~~rth singles, the Irish had 
At the beginning of the combined with teammate Chris help from senior Ron Inchauste. season he contended that the Kane to post a 10-10 record in first The right hander form Bolivia squad's greatest asset was doubles. Carrico had an excellent recorded a 12-5 slate in his first balance, and by the end of the year spring, taking three of four mat­season as a varsity regular. He he was convinced of it. "We were a ches while in Texas, but he began sawlimitedactiontheyearbefore pretty even team up and down the to play rather inconsistently after when he won five of six. line," he admits. "When the that, hovering around the .500 Fallon received a pleasant players at thetop'positionsdidn't do mark for several weeks. surprise in the performance of well, the guys at the lower spots Senior Chris Kane enjoyed his freshman Brian Hainline. A native 
picked up the slack and vice finest season as an Irish regular as of Detroit, Hainline took 13 of 2(} I'! f versa." he posted a 13-7 mark. Kane had matches while playing in the fifth ~ 287·2581 ~ The squad he speaks of gave the been bothered by a sore arm for spot. ...,,,..._,,..._,,..._..._..._..._..._..._..._'-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-' 18-year coach a 16-4 record, a bit the past couple of seasons which In sixth singles the Irish got a 
.···········•················•····································
off its 18-2 mark of the previous had seriously hampered his hand from junior Juan InchaustE . season. But the Irish had some progress. He started the season (10-5), JUmor Mike O'Donnell .. tough competion. "Three of the playing in the fifth singles (3-1) and freshman Tony Bruno(2· 
2).

four matches we lost were by position, but was soon playing the 24 H scores of 5-4," says Fallon. "All of number three spot. He stayed ~~ 0(/ our losses, <Michigan, Illinois, ~t~h~P..i:"=:f:i"!'=:t:h"':=r::e~m=a=in:d:E":r:::::of=th:e::===========~ 
Indiana and Ohio State) were to " --­
teams highly regarded in the Big \0." Only in the Michigan match were the Irish out of it all the way when they lost 9-0. 
The netters were led by sophomore Randy Stehlik. Stehlik., a southpaw from Peru, Ind., was enjoying a 14-o record 
and  a  23-game  winning  streak  
before  losing  to  Michigan's  
Victor  Amaya.  Randy finished  

the season at 17-3 in addition to being named Most Valuable Player in the Galveston Island Spectacular and second singles champion in the Irish Invitational. 
The season's effort gave him a career record of 40-10. 

,.. Notre Dame's captain John Carrico captured 12 matches in 20 outings while playing in the 
We turn 

1.199iT puJ 'pu"8 •onos 
'""V puau ·os ZOII ourselves LOLO-trl'7 -'fnJ)I 'f>!O
JaUMO 

rc.c.. J.N3WN~IW lVIO 133HM 
upside down 

3JlAli3S 3ll'lfll9 dn·3NnJ. liOJ.OW 
to please you 

3JIAH3S OVtJH~~ / 
~ H3>D3MM ~v /
qniJ L 

JOIOW 1!0 A!lliOJ '3 
ArDicK·s 
10 PERCENT DISCOUNT


i~Vs !#11 
TO N.D. AND I.U. STUDENTS AND FACULTY.


~ SJI)IO 
:'110:'1:.-SAT. 7am-ltpm J.I031J J.NVJ.SNI 
SUN. 9 am-9pm 

RACING EVERY TUESDAY NIGHT 
SOUTH BEND MOTOR SPEEDWAY Time trial at 7:00 p.m. Race at 8:30 p.m. 
Track located 3 miles west of So. Bend on Western Ave. 

J-.l. Foreign Car Parts Co. 
~)Parts & accessories for imported car for all makes at lowest prices.
"•lionol Di•tnbutor 

*************************
! For all Studt>nts. Faculty & Staff, a 10 :*Jlt'I'Ct'llt discount with In and purchast' of * *$111 ()J' Jlllll't' * 
\***********************. 
215 Dixie Way N Roseland· So. Bend 
I 
I 
I 

w Sleuth
I 
1--
Areo Premiere of

NO 
ShoHer' s tense mystefy
I 

I 
JUNE 201 21 I 27I 28 
at 8:00P.M.

SMC
I 
$2.75 
LITTLE THEATRE
I 

THEATRE 
St. Mary's College 

Phone: 284-4176
I 
AIR CONDITIONED.
I 

I I I I I I I I 
I 
,..'"'"'""''"'"'"'"'"''"'"'"'"'"''"'"''"''"'",
I -CHECK OUT -~ 

! HOPS N' SPIRITSi
i THIS WEEKS SPECIAL ~ 
16 PACK OF COKE IN CANS 994 I
I f 
J FOUR POPULAR BEERS ~ 
J f
J AT FOUR SPECIAL PRICES 4ft 
~ ~ 
WE S ~ 
ELL KEGS AT THE CHEAPEST~ 4ft PRICE IN TOWN ,;: ~ 
,;: f
! 812 E. LASALLE AVE. ~ 
~ 

0 U'
J & J GRILL ~ I \ pM 327 N. MICHIGAN 
I 
u 
N
11am-11pm

s B 
I Daily Dinner Specials A c only $1.49 L L 


"'> /
D A '{ S 

•••·•··•············•··•·······································•· 






