
----------~-----------~ -~--------------~-~-----­


university of nofre dame sf mary's college Vol. X, No. 38 
Friday, October 24, 1975 
Trustees hear Progress Report 
Committee recommends SLC 
conduct on-going evaluations 
by Maureen Flynn 

of May, 1975 outlines the recom­women's career counselling,
Senior Staff Reporter 
mendations set forth in that university funding of club sports 
The Committee on Un-original report, indicates the and the installation of a dergraduate Life (COUL) current status of each recom­gynecologist in the infirmary. yesterday recommended that the mendation and points out the "We do not feel and we never Student Life Council (SLC) assume n1aior areas of current concern. have felt that the COUL report is the responsibility for an on-going The May COUL report contained finished or ever could be finished,'' evaluation of undergraduate 37 specific recommendations the report states. "While we are student life. concerning the areas of satisfied with the report and its 
academics, coeducation, initial effects on the Notre Dame 
residentiality, student life and community, we are well aware finances. The COUL Progress that the report is not sufficient as it Report breaks down the status of sta11ds now." 
these recommendations ar "The follow-up investigations,"follows: Action Already Taken the report continues, "revealed <13), Action Being Taken (6), several problems which requireAction to Be Taken (6), and No serious and immediate attention." 
Alumni were not "OK" by the standards of James Roemer, dean of st­
Action (12). 

Areas of major concern outlined 
udents. Roemer removed signs with 'sexual conotations' displayed by
The report also names the 
in the COUL Progress Report 
these halls .. 

·person, office or organization 
include the need for "neutral 
Students from Dillon Hall displayed this banner and wondered if it
. whose responsibility evaluation of 
spaces to be used for informal 
would meet Roemer's standards. Roemer could not be reached for
the recommendation should be and 
interaction between men and 
comment. (Photo by Tony Chifari)
to whom it should be sent for 
women," lack of career coun­
further study and action. 

selling for all students, quantity
Areas in which action has 
and quality of off-campus housing, 
Plans for fiberboard
already been taken include the 
and the need to keep tuition costs
improvement of relation~ between students and the South Bend 
In addition to these needs, ex­
community, more active pressed in the original COUL 
low. village presented
recruitment of minority students 
report, the committee cites "a
and faculty members, color-coding 
growing anxiety over the safety of and tighter control of form 50's for women on campus ... an evaluation by Mark Murphy quantitatively and qualitatively
registration and improvement of 
of the relationship between Notre Staff Reporter conserve limited !resources ," he
John D. Rockefeller IV ioined 
the University Village complex. 
Dame and St. Mary's ... the Plans are currently being said.
other trustees in visiting La For­
According to the Progress problem of alcohol use and abuse presented to the University for the He said that the dwelling's small 
tune Student Center. (Photo by 
Report , action is being taken now on campus" and "an urgent need on-campus construction of a dimensions andthe communal
Tony Chifari) 
to complete the Graduate Dor­for action with regard to corrugated fiberboard village to be facilities would significantly
mitory project, increase the
In its Progress Report presented increasing the capacity of the inhabited by Notre Dame students reduce the amount of resources 
to the Student Affairs Sub­number of female faculty in full 
Placemept Bureau." in January. needed to house each person.
committee of the Board of time tenure track and ad­
"The preliminary follow-up nas The proposal, conceived by ''The materials used to construct Trustees, the committee recom­ministrative positions, and extend made it very clear that there are Chuck Canavan, a fifth year the village is made from cellulose Jmends · that "the evaluation the services of the Campus still many areas rewuiring at-architecture student working with .fiber," Sondej noted, "which is begun by our committee be con­Ministry to more off-campus tention," the report concludes. Anjomark Research Inc, and AI renewable and available on a tinued and expanded by the students: "Furthermore, it is evident that Sondej of the World Hunger global scale. It is biodegradableStudent Life Council, its sub­Future courses of action are the task of -an on-going Coalition, will serve as a prototype rapidly and inexpensively
committees and any ad hoc being determined for dealing with 
evaluation is too much for a for housing in the future produced, lightweight and committees it may see the need to the understaffing and over­committee such as the Committtee The idea for the village originat­durable." employ.'' crowding in the business college, on Undergraduate Life to handle ·-ed with the Coalition's desire to 
"Furthermore," the report the expansion of the women's alone." construct a house that would Instead of disposing waste into a states, "we recommend that the athletic program, and the The report recommends that the enable the rich to lower their sewer system it will be collected to 
SLC use its legislative and ad­establishment of student advisory prevent the pollution of wat­
Student Life Council assume standard of living and Anjomark's
visory powers to initiate and boards to the departments in the 
responsibility for following concern with providing disaster erwaysand be available for fer­facilitate action in regard to the Office for Student Affairs. through with its recommendations relief housing for the poor. tilizer and heat production.issues considered in the original Coed Housing and suggests that the respon-Jack DeLine,a 1961 1 ~ graduateCOUL report and to any new issues The COUL committee notes in its ~ibility to "oversee and encourage of Notre Dame and president of concerning undergraduate life." Progress Report that no action has the SLC's work" lies with "the Anjomark Research, has 
The committee's follow-up 
yet been taken on its recom­Vice President of Student Affairs developed a housing unit made of 
report on the original COUL report mendations regarding housing, 
(continued on page 10), corrugated fiberboard for use in disaster relief and permanent poverty areas. 
DeLine's non-profit organizaton will provide all · funds and materials for the project. 
The village will consist of 25-50 various structures encircling a communitycenter. The individual dwelling will have single and double occupancy with shapes ranging from tent-shaped to 'g1able roof structures. 
The community center will provide its inhabitantswith a dining area, cooking and food ~tor· age space and toilet facilities. Electricity will be used for light­ing, heating and cooking. 
"Solar energy and 1methane digesters could be ideally used to produce elect\1'\C power,'' Canavan added. 
Canavan exp-lained that theTo use Solar Energy village will serve as a protrotype and working model for AnjQ'mark Small solar stoves will be in-Research in_its developemnt of

stalled to cook food on sunny days and water will be provided by disaster /relief housing. 
"While the basic units have been 
rainfall and melted snow collected developed and tested, this will bein storage bins. 

Sondej explained the Hunger the first prolonged use of them in an actual village environment," he 
Coalition's interest in the village said.

Thomas Carney and Brother Just Paczesny heard t­Affairs subcommittee meeting. (Photo by Tony project. "W~~antto build and live he student report on COUL yesterday at the .S'u~ent Chifari) in a home that is designed to (continued on page 6) 




Friday, October 24, 1975

the observer 
warld briefs 

MORRISTOWN, N.J. <AP)-A neurologist who specializes in the 
treatment of coma victims said Thursday that Karen Anne 
Quinlan's physical condition was too grotesque to describe, but said 
no physician has the right to take steps that could end her life. 
The testimony was by Dr. Sidney Diamond, one of three 
neurologists presented by attorneys opposing a request by Miss 
Wuinlan's adoptive parents that doctors be ordered to disconnect a 
respirator to "let her die with dignity." 
MADRID, Spain (AP)-Gen. Francisco Franco is showing signs of 
heart failure, his doctors said Thursday night. 
"The chief of state has suffered a relapse and incipient heart 
failure has appeared," a statement from 11 attending doctors said. 
The medical bulletin, the first since the 82-year-old chief of state 
suffered a severe heart attack two days ago, opened the way under 
the Spanish constitution for Franco to be declared incapable of 
continuing as Spanish ruler. 
There were reports that his government was making efforts to 
transfer power to Prince Juan Carlos de Borbon. 
ANDERSON, INDIANA <AP) A human skeleton, thought to be 
that of an Indian and several hundred years old, has been found 
near here by three youths playing in a gravel pit. 
Mrs. Wayne Gillespie said her son, GRoger, and twoof his sixth­
grade friends were tossing rocks into a pond on his grandfather's 
farm when they discovered sometning sitcking out of the ground. 
The boys started digging and found the skeleton of a man in the 
seated position with his hands clasped behind his head. . . . 
A sim iliar skeleton was found near here in 1963 and scientists said 
it was between 150 and 400 years old. 
an campus taday 
friday, october 24, 1975 
12:15 pm 
3-6 pm 
5:15 
pm 

5:15 
p.m. 7 pm 7,10 pm Bpm 


9-1 am 
saturday, october 25, 1975 
10:50 am 
12:15 pm 8:00pm 
10-1 am 
sunday, october 26, 1975 -travelogue "lake rudolf, kenya, east africa", by ray russo, rm. 278, galvin life center aud. -happy hour, presented by the junior class, kubiak's -mass and dinner, bulla shed -vespers, "evensong" log chapel -pep rally between towers and library 
12  noon  -Iacross "nd A & B teams vs. chicago lacrosse club" stepan center field  
4,7 ,10 pm  -film"the gospel according to st. matthew" engineering aud. sponsored by collegiate seminar  
8:15 pm  -concert "larry h. smith organ concert" sacred heart church  

-film "cries and whispers" engineering aud. $1 -world trav.el series "pageantry of ireland" by nicol smith, sponsored by south bend lions club, o'laughlin aud. $2, single admission; $8, season tickets. 
-smc coffeehouse "terry donahue, 10; pat russel, 11; jerry rail, 12" snack shop 
-multi-media show "notre dame in review" washington hall 
-football "southern california at notre dame" 
-concert "beach boys" ace. $5 rear stage bleachers only 
-nazz coffeehouse "pete snake, 10; mark hopkins, 11; jack kelleher, bill boris, dexter jordin, 12" Iafortune basement 
Moreau Gallery 
opens exhibit 
this weekend 
The Moreau Galleries, Saint Mary's, opened three new exhibits Saturday, Oct. 18th. 
The shows will run until Nov. 9th and include: "Pots and Pain­tings", featuring local artists Jim Paradis and Ed Harding, in the main gallery; "Wild Fibre: Soft­Stuffed Sculpture" by Moira Marti Geoffrion in the Little Theatre Gallery; and "Photographs" by 
A.W. Sperber, in the Hammes Gallery. 
"Pots and Paintings" features ceramk sculpture and pots by Jim Paradis. associate professor of art at Saint Mary's, and watercolors by Ed Harding, professor of art and chairman of the graphics and media division, Indiana Vocational Technical College, South Bend. 
Moira Marti Geoffrion, whose 
works have been widely exhibited 
in the midwest. is a member of 
the art department of Notre Dame. 
Aneta W. Sperber, a self­proclaimed ''people photographer", is associated with the Audio-Visual Photolab at In­diana University, Bloomington. 
The Observer 1S published Monday through Friday and weekly during the ~ummer session. except durmg exams and vacation periods The Observer 1s published by the students of the Univ. of Notre 
Dame and St Mary's College Subscriptions may be purchased for 10 dollars per semester ( 18 dollars per year) from The Ob server. BoK Q, Notre Dame. In diana. 46556 Second Class postage pa1d. Notre Dame. IN 46556 






UndergraduateS& College Graduates 
Interested in an Advanced Business Degree 
(Full Time and Evening Program) 
ATTEND GRADUATE MANAGEMENT SCHOOLS' RECRUITING FAIR Conrad Hilton Hotel (Chicago) October 30-November 1, 1975 
Here's your opportunity to meet with the Directors of Admissions from some ~0 Graduate ~anagement Schools and learn specific information about full t!me a~d eve~mg programs on course availability, admission requirements, f1nanc1al ass1stance and career opportunities. 
The following are some of the schools that will be in.attendance: 
Carnegie Mellon Indiana Tulane 
Columbia Loyola UCLA Cornell MIT Unlv. of ChicagoDartmouth Michigan State Univ. of Illinois De Paul New York Univ. Univ. of Iowa Duke Northwestern Univ. of Michigan Emory Ohio State Unlv. of Notre Dame Georgia Tech Purdue Univ. of So. California Governors State Roosevelt Unlv. of Wisconsin Harvard Southern Illinois Washington University II T Stanford Wharton 
The Conference is sponsored by the Admission Council for Graduate 
Study in Management and there is no charge or fees to attendees. 
Plan to come in at anytime at the Conrad Hilton Hotel, 720 S. 
Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, on Thursday, Oc­
tober 30 (2 PM to 8:30PM), Friday, October 31 
(10:30 AM to 8:30PM), and Saturday, November 1 (10 AM to 3 PM). 
NOW OPEN GENERAL STORE 
FEATURING JEANS & TOPS FOR GUYS & GALS 
COME CHECK OUT OUR FADED GLORY JEANS AND JACKETS 
1621 So Bend Ave. (BEHIND LINEBACKER) Phone 233 -6867 YES, WE HAVE PAINTER'S PANTS 
NOW IN 
THE PAN I 

PIZZA PARLOR I 
I
The only 
I

authentic Italian 
I 

Deep Dish Pizza. I 
watch our ads all this I week for an event that I you won't believe I 
{Save our valuable coupons.) I 277-1221 or 
Friday, October 24, 1975 
the observer 
Spirit strong at Southern Cal. • • 
by Mary Reher 
Senior Staff Reporter 
"The Notre Dame-Southern California football game has become the fabled game of the year in Los Angeles," according to Kevin McKenna, editor of the 
Trojan Daily. 
"Students here are usually blase and take things for granted since we have a good team," he continued. "Even though this is definitely a big football school, there is not always a lot of spirit. But the Notre Dame game is an exception," he said. 
Cheerleader Jennifer Booty cit­eo such campus events for the game last year as a nightly pep rally the week preceding the game <some impromptu), posters hung all over campus and spontaneous parties, especially after the game. 
Although Southern Cal spirit was strong last year, McKenna noted that Trojan support in Los Angeles is not as overwhelming as the Notre Dame support South Bend. 
"When Notre Dame comes to California it already has a good deal of backing since about one-t­hird of the people in the area are Irish fans. It is completely dif­ferent when the Trojans plav in South Bend, though, because few Midwesterners support Southern Cal," he said. 

People still discuss the NDgame from last year, McKenna ob­served. 
The SouthernCalbookstore stills sells a clock whose face is a picture . of _the final score of last year's Trojan victory, he said. 
"The University-President framed the cover from the Sports Illustrated issue following the game," he stated. "It is a picture of Anthony Davis running down the field. In the lower right hand corner is a picture of the ND 
• • • while at Notre Dame 
by Tom Conaty Staff Reporter 

The gold and red leaves on 'the trees, clever signs hanging from the dorm windows, alumni and friends walking on the quads and the unexplainable atmosphere that lingers over campus characterize the most important week of the year--USC week. 
Although many students are still in the middle of mid-term exams, the fun, the excitement and the still very much alive around the duLac campus. 
One can feel it as one walks the decorated sidewalks. One hears it as the band practices the Trojan 
Observer Insight
*
"fight song" and one can see it as Nickies, Corb's and the Library are jammed on Monday and 


HAVE ATAILGATE PARTY BEFORE THE BIG GAME 
outstanding -a 
I 
a Barrel of lickin' good"® potatoes and hot rolls 


are not

OCT. 19-24 
the game, to FRI -'Cries & Whispers' 
Colonel ". 
7 & 10 
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM 
ADMISSiON $1 . 
Cinema ~ 78 ~ 
· 4207 S. MiehiJan • lMO South Bend Ave. ­· '2612 LWW Mishawaka 
,emotion~ fiel . f this ~~e~.... a,re .,.. Tuesday nliht. 
cheerleaders crying," he said. game. 
McKenna described the mood of In an effort to raise transporta the campus as "apprehensive" tionmoney to South Bend, the 300 and "less confident than last year" member band held a raffle last because of the team's poor per-week for a round trip to ND for two formance this year. with free game tickets, he said. 
"In ranking the teams this year, Commenting on the raffle, he Coach McKay rated ND ninth, but said, "Needless to say, it went over he did not even list SC in the top extremely well--everybody bought ten," he added. a ticket to have a chance at going Director of the SC Student News o the game." 
Bureau Kirk Stewart expects Most Trojan fans however, will 5,000 Trojan fans to attend this watch the game over national weekend's game. Some students television, he said. have already started the drive to "There is an Elton John outdwi" Indiana in order to reach ND in concert scheduled for Saturday time for the game, he said. during game time," he stated, 
After contacting local travel "but I am not going to miss this agencies, McKenna found that game. Most people feel the same 
1,700 fans had booked flights to the way." 


: TIMM PARTY STORE : 
:~OPEN : MON-SAT 9am -11 pm: 
:  SUNDAY  12noon  -11 pm  :  
:  COLD BEER,WINE, LIQUOR,  •  
••  GORMET FOODS •  :  

• 3114 S. 11 St. NILES, MICHIGAN : : "BIGGEST LITTLE : • LIQUOR. STORE IN MI~RTGAN" •
•......•...........~~~········ 







..

"· .... ·~-j!f~_~,·. ,-·.'_._', __ ~,·· .. -.. /_. ... ':~-/
.• 



Friday, October 24, 1975
the observer 

Government role in energy 
Speakers spark debate 
by Phil Cackley Staff Reporter 
Two speakers with diametrically opposed views on the economics of the energy crisis concluded the third and final session of the Energy Conference last night in the Library Auditorium. 
The speakers on last night's program were Charles1 Wolfe, president of the American Economic Foundation, on a "Free Enterprise Approach to Problem Solving", and David Morris, co­director of the Institute for Local Self-Reliance, on "Systematic Approach to Problem Solving." 
The presentation was the con­cluding session in a three day Energy Conference sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission. It was attented by an audience of about 50 people. 
Free enterprise works 
Wolfe began the program by giving a brief history of agriculture and food economy in 

America. He ~inted to the high , government intervention in the 
level of pr.oductton a!ld the fact t­hat the Umted States IS the number one food producer in the world 
today. , 
"I think this is the fruit of free enterprise at work," he said, asserting that America's position is not due solely to "a good piece of land." 
It would be logical, according to Wolfe, that other nations in the world would also use free ent­erprise, because it works so well. But this is not the case, he said. 
He outlined several examples of nations that have gone over to government controlled economies, particularly in agriculture. He specifically referred to Argentina and Russia, saying that in both countries agriculture has failed 
and those nations are now relying on imports from the rest of the
world, especially America. 

Wolfe claimed that just as free enterprise worked in an agricult­ural economy, it would work in . other types of economic systems, and in other types of problems-solving as well. 
He applied this claim to the energy crisis, stating that 
government "violations of free enterprisehast.adalottodowith
causing the energy crisis." "I believe we can solve this crisis if government will get out of the energy business," he stated. 
The government planted the seeds of the energy crisis in the
1930's, Wolfe stated, when price 

_c~e~on~tcro~l10 w10eareCICipu0t0o0 a1111lxg:acas:ac.xxyxexaxrxsxprMeeMMoiCif~e~usiGi10 cCionCicentrated
n~n ngiCICa
1111r1111
s 10 1111a1111tu
0 00000 
01 



~ '* 
HOMECOMING DANCE. 

* 

uWORLD OF FANTASY" THEME FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24 9P.M.-1A.M. STEPAN CENTER 
., 

*nSAHARA" from Chicag<?, will entertain *cheese, apples, french bread for everyone 
* 
semi-formal attire suggested 

* 
tickets on sale at the dining halls during 'danner 



$5.00 Per Couple, DON'T MISS THIS FESTIVE AFFAIR!! ­
' ,. ' 
~ 
This slowed down production, causing a domino effect with other forms of energy, particularly 
coal. He stressed that price controls do not work, saying this restriction 
and others, such as enviromental regulations, brought first a shortage of oil in this country, and then forced oil companies to develop oil resouces in foreign nations, including the Middle East. This in turn set up the conditions for the recent Arab oil embargo. 
Wolfe listed a number of pieces of federal legislation which he felt interferred and hindered the free market operation in the energy field. They included the Mine Health and Safety Air Act, the National Enviromental Policy Act <NEPA>, the Clean Air Act, and th­e Surface Mining Act. All of these laws either delayed energy projects like the Alaskan oil pipeline, or limited the efficiency of industry, such as in the coal industry, according to Wolfe. 
"Even the best intentioned 
free market is like throwing a monkey-wrench into the system " he stated. ' 
Wolfe called for a 'massive program of deregulation and decontrolling of the energy indust­ry" as the only method of solving the energy crisis. 
Mc,rris, who spoke next, said that although he disagreed with Wolfe's basic philosophy, he did agree with some of the statements made by Wolfe. 
Morris felt that government int­ervention was the cause of many of America's problems, both in the economy and the energy situation. But he felt that it was government intervention on the side of the big business that was doingh this. 
He stated that a market system of economy was good but that the 
United States has not oper&ted on one for the past several decades. This was due to the 
creation of big business by government actions. Morris felt t­hat it might be too late for the government to intervene "on the right side--because they don't 
know how to." 
Endofanera 
It is impossible to view the energy crisis piecemeal, according to Morris. Other matters such as 
the raw material crisis must also be considered.
"This nation has been on a 100 e~ergy s~urce ~hat.~s ~~mmng to g1ve out, he sa1d. Th1s IS the end of an era." 

Morris stated that in the relat­ively near future the United States was going to experience economic 
and governmental changes, an altered rate of consumption of products, and a change in the American way of life. 
Reasons for these changes were listed by Morris as being: 1) the limited supply of fossil fuels, on which our economy and way of life is based; 2Hhe fact that what remaining fuel reserves are dif­ficult to obtain; and 3) the en­viromental effects of continuing the current type of destructive technology being used. 
"No longer are we getting a free lunch. There are difficult decisions to be made on the trade­offs involved," he stated. He said he doesn't want those decisions being ·made by a few oil company executives, but would rather have an informed public acting as decision-maker. 
now appearing in the 




ROCX GARDIN 
(This weekend -no cover charge with student I.D.) 
HAPPY HOUR Mon.-Fri. 4:00-7:30 LADIES' NIGHT Tues. 8:00-10:00 MEN'S NIGHT Thurs. 8:00-10:00. 
EVERY MONDAY-REDUCED PRICES ON BEER AND BAR DRINKS 
Appropriate attire required for admittance 
ii~i.iif!i]~~~~r;Arn:erico's Finest Show and Dance Bands Six Nights A Week 
THE HEADQUARTERS 
~~4-J.~~....,_ _.PARKMOR PLAZA, BRISTOL ST. (BYPASS 11 '2) ELKHART 
********************************** ****************** 
: 
lt
* 
* 
* 
:* 
...
1
~* 

GRAND OPENING' ~ * 
• * 
* 
G I d :+
0 den Dome Recor ~* Must·c Company ~.. 
..,..
* * 

809 Flanner, Phone 1492 : 
* 
All STEREO EQUIPMENT AT LO\A/, LOW PRICES ** 
* 
CHOOSE FROM THESE POPUlAR BRANDS: 
*
* 
AKA! 

DOKORDER MARANTZ
ALTEC 

ESS TECHNICS
ADVENT 

EPI PIONEER
BIC 

GARRARD PHILLIPS
BOSE INFINITY PHASELINEAR
CERWIN VEGA JVC 
RECTILINEAR
CROWN. KENWOOD REVOX
DUAL KOSS SAE 
For Example, Try Out These Fantastic Bargins ; ..* 
Pioneer SX1010 List $699.9.5 <Our price $529.95 *
*:+
Pioneer SX939 
List $599.95 Our Price $449.95 
* 
Pioneer SX838 * 
List $499.95 Our Price $389.95 *
* 
*
*..
ALL EQUIPMENT IS FACTORY DIRECT .. 
* 
WITH FULL WARRANTY! ..* 
..* 
RECORDS AVAILABLE IN 807 FLANNER, PHONE 1488 • 
REGULARLY $6.98 WE'RE A STEAL AT $4.55 : 
*********************•···········~··················' 
• ""··.. .. •• .., /"f "' :-' t•
\-,...• • \••.• •• •• ,.. \. ~· •• "' •" ,· .... .: ,. • • t ~ J t f • " "· • • # 
(Main Church)  
5:15p.m. Sat.  Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.  
9:30 a.m.  Sun.  Fr. Richard Conyers, C.S.C.  
10:45 a.m.  Sun  Fr. Eugene F. Gorski, C.S.C.  
12:15 p.m. Sun.  Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C  

Evensong will be at 4:30p.m. in the Lady Chapel. Br. Just Paczesny, C.S.C. will be the homllist. 

histle : I top 
SOVTH SEND, 1/VC>IA""A 
TERRIFIC COCKTAIL 
11 A.M. to 2 A.M. b t PRIVATE MFJ:TINGr~·iTlo~s~er~;:;:::::J
ROOMS FRI. & SAr 15-75 PEOPLE ''ALL You ·SPECIAL 
fROG LE C~N f~ T" 
s.•..., Q$_ Frlftclt F~ ~6 9 5 
plush

George Graves 
Mail Poueh Hoom 
HOUSE SPECIALTY 
PRIME RIB 
______!h~u~b;~=~~~~u-l
WED. & TRUI., SPECIAL 
tURf &SURf 
• f\\et $ 695 
PIZZAS, SNACKS 
& SANDWICHES 
SERVED ANY-TIME I 
7 ft. TV screen for · Monday night 1footbalL 
* 
*
*
* 
SANSUI 
SHERWOOD * 
SONY *
* 
TEAC 
*' 
THORENS 
PLUS MANY MORE... *
*
*
*
*
* 
....................... . ... ,, ... f · _ _ . . . • . . . , 4 • f· . ,) .· 1J · • "' C, I, ;; ' -~ ~ \ t ' \ ~ -\.· ' \-• ' I ~ \ ~ 1111 " •-II ' ' It \ \ \ ' .' \ ,. ,' I t ~ ., ' ,' \' \t •.' ,t ,l-.,.,__ .,: >f .~~-~· , • e! • I# 1i.~ ., C' ~-~ • • • -. 7 · • i' -• t ••
l' 

..1¥~-·.--....... _....•, . -~ ·'!'T:r;JJ·:fi¥·.;-H~~J·w·';~,•.·.·.,·~ ...~•.-.·-.. .-~·.i····;·,·\~·····'''···············:······-·· .· ...
··.J 4 •• if.·--.~ Y i,,,w-C"' , ....." ~t' .. · ~--11_~.},' -~~:-:~~~-• '], ',)' .. -l "'.;~'!J-.·'IA•IA•Ilt'AI.-·X'Ittri!Ra r'• • ."'. -"' 
,,,,,.,_ ••• .i, •• ,.,_ ••• _,. ~~-................._ ....... ~~· 

G· 

Friday, October 24, 1975 the observer 
\
Alcohol regulations 
Campus reacts to rule 
by Maggie Waltman because of the university policy, he community rooms, the rector Staff Reporter said there are only two alter­would have to give permission.. natives, "The students in his hall The rector would not legally be
Dean of Students James Roemer 

either stage a mass exodus on the able to do this because the Indiana said Wednesday "there is no sad weekends or they do nothing," he law states that in the event an 
lack of drinking on this campus," said. institution or person provides ordespite the drinking regulations. 
Andy Swanfeldt, a Dillon Hall furnishes alcohol to minors, theyRoemer believes Notre Dame junior, said that the whole at­are civilly libel. By giving per­students are not denied the op­mosphere in Dillon has been mission to hold hall parties, a 
portunity to drink. "Most creative rector would be sanctioning un­
cramped because of the
students can find ample op­derage drinking. 
regulations. The rector certainly
portunity to consume alcohol," cannot be blamed because "he's If the drinking is confined to aRoemer said. "This seems to be just doing his job," according to student's room, he does not needthe case even though alcohol must Swanfeldt. "Dillon would like to the approval of the rector, Roemer be confined to private rooms." 
have bigger hall parties with less said.
Fr. William Presley, rector of St. 

strict regulations about drinking," He also said, "If we think you're Ed's, said there has been no he commented. tearing down the walls, torturingproblem in his hall. "The students, your roommate. and generallyat least in St. Ed's, seem to like raising distractions, it is still thesmaller parties better," he stated. Studt>nts mort' rt>sponsible hall staff's responsibility to takePresley said it is possible to have appropriate actions even if the
Roemer said he doesn't think it is

a reasonable-size party in the party is in a private room." 
room. He continued, "The necessary to walk around with a Roemer stated that having
drink in hand. By confining the
students in St. Ed's are in favor of parties with kegs is inconsistenthaving hall parties with alcohol. alcohol to private rooms, the with private room regulations.
But since there is a regulation student becomes responsible for "There is no longer a small private 
the action, according to Roemer.
against it, the rule hasn't affected atmosphere," he said.
the spirit of the hall." 
Roemer stated that this in an Roemer continued, "I haveThe president of one dorm, who accordance with the Indiana state observed and experienced the 'keg asked to remain unidentified, said law because technically "it is not atmosphere', and I see no greatthe situation in his hall has been done with our <the university's) need for that kind of social func­strained because of the drinking perm iss ion." tion. The need for social mixingregulation..He said, "It's a ~un~y If the drinking occurs outside of can be met without further ex­situation seeing people standmg m a private room, that is, is the hall's pansion of the alcohol rules."
doorways with beer cans, but not 
being able to walk out in the 
hallway with them." 
Kathy Grace, president of Breen-Phillips, said, "The whole social life at Notre Dame has been changed since the alcohol rule." Grace commented that the Breen­Phillips residents are disappointed that they cannot have community parties, but most students realize they must live with the regulation. 
Grace said, "I don't think the 

problem is as great in the girls' 
dorms as in the guys'." 
Cindy Weidner, a senior in Lewis 

Hall, stated that since the parties 
now tend to be small, "no major 
m~r aiolonial ­Jan~nkr i!inust 

~&I 
"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
!$=.:·:.:-:.:.:.;.:.:.:·:.:.:.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::' 
:;:; ...is.. ~ia~ieties of Pancakes :;:. }Ch•cken . Steak . Sandwiches { ) Friday Nites: Perch Dinners ~~~ :~:::1;:::::;::::::::~:::.:·:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
Your Ho.:,t
u.S. 31 (Oixieway) North ( Acr:oss from Hoi iday Inn) Bob Edwards, N D 'SQ. 

releases of tension occur at these parties." 
orr-campus parties best 

Weidner observed that there is not much happening in Lewis, "probably because mostly fresh­men live there." Weidner, like the unidentified hall president, said the best parties are the ones off­campus. "Although the drinking policy has had little affect in Lewis, I think that if the residents had the means, there would be weekend exodus from Lewis, too," Weidner remarked. 
He said that although the rector has been "pretty good" about t~e whole situation, the hall would still like to have some bigger floor parties. Since this is impossible 

Concert bus trip planned Oct. 21 
Student Union will sponsor a bus trip to the Jefferson Starship Concert in Kalamazoo, Michigan, Monday, Oct. 27. The bus will leave the ND Circle at 5 pm Monday. The cost of the bus trip and concert ticket is $10.50. Tickets may be purchased at the Student Union Ticket Office. 
-~~~~~-~­
tNext to G iuseppe'st t' Constant Dancing I f at the I t KICK OFF CLUBf 
~ 713 E. LaSalle : Tues., Wed., f
t 
Fri. & Sat. f f 8 -2 am IBeer, Wine & Food f 
'I Discoteque It 
f LARGEST DANCE I 

-
The Story Of College Football's Greatest Coach As told By The Men Who Played For Him by John D. McCallum and Paul Castner 
WE REMEMBER ROCKNE is far more than a book only for sports fans. It is for everyone who believes in per­fection and the struggle to reach that goal. Knute Rockne was many men; a fascinating mix of vigorous activity and talents. He was a no-nonsense man with the highest of standards; making every minute of every hour count. 
Rockne has been dead for nearly 45 years, and there have been many books in the past ... so why another book? To share his spirit, ideals, determination and unfor­gettable personality with younger generations not lucky enough to personally witness this legend. And to rekindle the neglec'ted feelings of pride and accomplishment en­joyed from ajob well done. 
No other book has been able to capture the intimacy of his spirit quite like WE REMEMBER ROCKNE. And none will ever again be able to relate the behind-the-scene stories and emotion as have the 11 Men of Rockne." 
This is THE book about the man, his philosophy, prin­ciples and the game he loved. And it's told by the men who knew him best. Get to know him well!!! And make sure your children and grandchildren get to know him; men like Rockne are hard to find! 296 pages, clothbound 
. .. $7.95 
NOW ON SALE 2nd FLOOR 
N.D. BOOKSTORE 




-------.... __
.,...--.................. 

~~' ,_ , ~ Send me copies of ,-" ~ WE REMEMBER ROCKNE, ," no. 882, clothbound ••• $7.95 :tf 
/ . ~ t
// Name_________________ ·,X,­' r
',Address_____________..._., //Author Paul Castner. 
', City ,/will autograph his book ',,State ," at N.D. Bookstore, ' ," Sat., Oct. 25
', Zip "' 
' .......... _, __.,~"" from 10 am to Noon. 
-
t,JJ.P~~~~lP.jYlif 
. :--..

[ 6 the observer Friday, October 24, 1975 
I 

To trustees 
f LaFortune changes reported
I 
> 
1 
l, ; by John Shaughnessy 
" Staff Reporter 
' 
I Emphasizing a belief in "const­ructivechange at Notre Dame", t­he Ombudsman Service presented its report on the La Fortune St­udent Center renovaton to the Board of Trustees yesterday. The report, prepared by Matt Cockrell and Bob Bode, outlined the improvements completed this year. It also commended the llniversity for its role in the renovation. 
) f 
Matt Cockrell and Bob Bode presented a report on the renovation of La Fortune to the Board of Trustees yesterday. (Photo by Ray Kamooch) 
In the report, Cockrell, the Ombudsman director, stated, "T­he Ombudsman Service strongly believes that constructive change is easily attainable at Notre Dame. 
Our experience <with the LaFortune renovation) indicates t­hat if presented with reasonable, well-thought-out plans, the University is very receptive to our requests." 
The renovation was completed this year at a cost of $203,000. This figure is below the $250,000 allocat­ed by the Executive Board of T­rustees in March, 1974 for the 
purpose. Includ~d in the improvements were the remodeling of thfirstfloor 
lobby, installing additional Nazz, a student coffeehouse stairwells, relocating student featuring live entertainment three governmentand publication of­days a week, and Darby's Place, a fices, and establishing a Black place where students can go to Cultural Arts Center. study or talk late at night. 
Cockrell feels the true indication In· the area of student ad­
of the center's success must come ministration, both the student 
from the students themselves. He government and student union 
stated, "Any well equiped building offices have been relocated on the 
willremain unused without the st­second floor. "The proximity of t­
rong support of the community. he two offices fosters better 
Until campus organizations and communicaton and increased 
individual students take advantage efficiency." Cockrell said. 

of LaFortune, its renovations 
cannot be termed a success." Still has problems 
According to the report, the Renovation, stated the report, st­
student center is beginning to ill hasn't solved two problems in 
achieve this success. connection with these offices--the 
heating system and the unused 
Better Utilized corridor space. The report makes 
no suggestions for improvements 
The report stated that the center is in these areas. 
now "better utilized" than ever The report concluded with a 
before, especially in the following proposal to form a new renovation 
areas: 1} planned social events, 2) committee to offer suggestions to 
student administration, 3) off­the Office of Business Affairs. This 
campus students and 4) a food committee would help decide how 
facility. the remaining $47,000 and any 
Socially. the two functions additional funds should be spent in 
singled out by the report were the the best interests of the students. 
ND chosen for project; 'temperate climate' cited 

(continued from page I) 
The results of the Notre Dame experiment will be-used as an example when DeLine demon­staraes his novel nousing unit to t­he United Nation's Habitat Con­ference in Vancouver, Bitish Columbia this May. 
Inhabited by Students 
The village will be inhabited 

mostly by University students. Canavan emphasized that the project is only in te planning stage until th£ University decides whether or not to allowtlu village to be built on or very near the 
campus. 
When asked why· Notre Dame was considered for the ex­perinH'ntal site, Canavan pointed out the temperate climate and a major university atmosphere. "We have students and scholars her-e in different fields who could be vital to the developemt of the 
program," he said. 

Working with Canavan and Sondej on the proposal are Frank Pokego handling the financial matters, Joe Braun serving as a liaison with the Engineering Department, and Hank Miller as 
publications manager. 

Sondej examined the three goals his Hunger Coalition is striving for in this village project. "The ex­perimental village would be an educational model for the Notre Dame community on ways to lower one's standard of living," he said. 
He sees the proposer{ communi also as a stimulant to the Notre Dame intellectual community , noting that there would be ample opportunity for researching man's basic problems through analysis 
and evaluation of te project. 

"Finally, it could provide an opportunity for members of the Notre Dame community to put intc practice their religious and humanitarian convictons," he concluded. 






IF E DAME WINS! 
That's right, if our Notre Dame FightinQ Irish beat USC this Saturday, October 25, 1975, JUSt present your ticket stub at McDonald's. • We'll give you an Arctic Orange shake free! 
Offer valid only at McDonald's of South Bend and Mishawaka. IN 

Offer expires: Sunday. Oct. 26, 1975 
STANFORD & FARLEY HALLS PRESENT 
PUMPKIN CARVING CONTEST PUMPKINS ON SALE MON & TUES AT NORTH DINING 
HALL --DINNER JUDGING & 4
-,
• • • .. ·­
FESTIVITIES -WED 
~
,.....,
WATCH FOR DETAILS! 
SPECIAL_ WEE END-ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$6~!1e occupancy sa~!ble occupancy 
No ~otre Dame identification required, just ment10n this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. except home football game weekends. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219) 272-7555 
3 miles North of the Tollroad Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. Send this ad to your parents 
RIVER BEND PUB 
441 E. LA SALLE AT NILES AVE. 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT MONDAY THRU SAT.URDAY 
(ND STUDENTS PERFORMING.) 
FEATURING 24 OZ. DRAFT 

$.60 
-WATCH FOR OUR HALLOWEEN SPECIAL COMING 800N­
SERVICE! Is Our Middle Name 
We've gone to longer hours and a bett_er style, all in order to serve you better! 
WE'RE NOW OPEN : Mon -Fri 10 -9 Sat 10-8 Sun 12-6 
Our new look puts everything in the 
store at your fingertips, including curl Pipes, Jewelry, Shirts, Belts and of 
course our Records and Tapes. We now have 
a new line of fine Posters. 
• 

RECORDS 
919 B College Square 
(Across from Town & Country Shopping Center) 
~ 
-J 
-=;..,. 

-----~ ----~~­
Friday, October 24, 1975 
the observer 
Collective bargaining discussed for faculty 
,.
I 


by Kathy Byrne Staff Reporter 
The first of a series of lectures on collective bargaining for the Notre Dame faculty was held Thursday night at the University Club. 
Frederick Hueppe, associate professor of modern languages at St. John's University, Jamaica, New York, explained how the program was organized there. 
He termed collective bargaining 
a "creative contract procedure to 
protect the academic and 
financial interests of the faculty." 
Hueppe has been a member of 
the American Association of 
University Professors, the national 
caucus on collective bargaining 
since 1969, when St. John's 
organized their charter. 
He noted that faculty-senates usually have no legal basis at the bargaining table, and are often totally ignored by administration members. 
Some of the faculty gains at St. John's since collective bargaining has gone into effect have been faculty selection of academic deans; clear cut grievance procedures and a ccess to personal files. 
According to Hueppe the program at St. John's has brought faculty and administration closer together. This statement drew laughs from the large audience, which included faculty and ad­ministration from Notre Dame, St. 


St. Mary's to host drama company 
The Royal Shakespeare Com­
pany will present "Pleasure and 
Repentance" as part of the St. 
Mary's Performing Arts Series at 8 
p.m., Wednesday, Nov. 5, in 
()'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The production, presented by five leading members of the Stratford -on-Avon cast, is direct­ed by Terry Hands. 
For ticket information, call the St. Mary's Programming Office at 284-4176. 


ERRATUM 
Yesterday's supplement on the Board of Trustees incorrectly reversed the captions on the photographs of Thomas P. Carney and Paul F. Hellmuth. 
Also, John A. Schneider was identified as a 1931 graduate of Notre Dame. Schneider graduated with the class of 1948. 
STEREO PUBLIC AUCTION 
Sun. Oct. 26 lpm 606 So. Ironwood So. Bend, Ind. 
Sony stereo tape recorder model TC-630, Sylvania quadraphonic component stereo, Zenith modular stereo with S-track tap£" player, 2 Sony casette recorders, another Zenith, Midland Multi-band radio and recorder, 2-Webcor hi-fi recorders, Dictograph recorder, Philco console stereo, Baldwin upright piano with bench, 1000's of classical records including Bach, Beethoven, Mozart, etc., some are importl'd collector's editions, Mot­orola 23" Quasar color TV, Zentth 23" B&W TV, Zenith portable B&W TV, other portable radios, record cabinets and complete household 
goods. John B. Kennedy-owner; National Bank & Trust Co. of South Bend­
guardian. (Terms Cash) 

MIDWEST AUCTION 

~--------------------­






1 N.D. 
I 
I VICTORY SPECIAL I I I 
I WIN OR LOSE I n::ICEF:a:~rede=-:rick-=-Hue~ppe~~ THERE .IS ALWAYS REASON TO I I I
,I CELEBRA.TE AT FAT WALLY'S I 
I

ILARGE SAUSAGE PIZZA $2.88 I 
I

il I
SAT. -10/25 WITH THIS COUPON 
I 
I 
I 


FAT WALLY'S I I 
------------------~ 
Come You Fightin' Irish 
TO TOWN & COUNTRY N ~FOR YOUR FAVQIIITE 
D . 



INES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
LIQUOR • WINE 
10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC 1.0. 
BEER· BEST PRICE IN TOWN VOLUME DISCOUNT FREE DELIVERY 
TWO FREE LOCATIONS DELIVERY 
the Bock. Ber 
Town & Ce1111trr Shopptng Center Phone 259-3262 

Charles Kellenberg, law professor, questioned faculty salary increases in view of world hunger and poverty. 
"We're not out for the jugular vein, it was a justified raise , backed up with ample statistics," Hueppe replied. He noted that the greatest increases went to librarians. 
·The audience did not seem overly favorable to the prospect of collective bargaining at Notre Dame. Many agreed that the faculty manual was a strong foundation for their complaints, and were wary of the time con­suming responsibiJities of faculty_ representatives to the AAUP. 
Most agreed that fufure discussions are needed before any decisions are ma 
FOR YOUR BACK PACKING NEEDS 


233-8383 
SIERRA SPORTS 2216 MIAMI SOUTH BEND, IN. 
Mary's and IUSB. 

The St. John's charter is based on two National Labor Relations Acts, which Hueppe termed "the cornerstones of our statement." 
Included in the charter are freedom of tenure; equal faculty voice in determining campus priorities, and prime responsibility in the area of student affairs..... 
The contract rules legally bind the board of trustees to consult with the faculty on any major policy changes. 
Financially, the faculty at St. John's has made definite progress. 
Salaries and benefits have in­creased by about 10 per cent each 
year since the programs im­plementation. Benefits include medical and life insurance, and complete tuition waivers for faculty children. 
Comparing Notre Dame to St. John's, Hueppe said that St. John's fiscal policy is more conservative than Notre Dame's. He noted that they refuse 31 2 million dolJars in state funds each year. This is done to stress the school's in­dependence. Federal grants are accepted, however. 
Several faculty members raised objections to collective bargaining at Notre Dame. They cited the faculty manual as taking the place of a labor contract. Many ex­pressed fears of legal interventions 
squelching faculty initiative. 
Hueppe replied that "The legal staff of the AAUP is brilliant," but conceded that St. John's ad­ministration is more passive than most, and tends to avoid con­troversy." 





Ihe ObServer 
an independent student newspaper Found~ November 3, 1966 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Manager 
EDITORIAL BOARD AI Rutht>rford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive tditor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; Kl'n Giro,uard, News Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; 
.... •JI' -' 
Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil, Features Editor; Chris Smith, Photo Editor 
~--------------E-do-to_.,_~,_~•_U_J_~__~ ________N_rw~~~28~J_I_7~1S________~Bu~l~on~r'~'~2~8]~-~74~7~1--------------~ 
Friday, October 24, 1975 
Fall of Troy 
Three years ago the Trojans devastated One year ago our hopes of keeping that 
Notre Dame as Anthony Davis knee­Cham pionship were crushed in 17 danced his way to six touchdowns. Notre minutes beneath 55 Trojan points. Notre Dame was humiliated. Dame has been humiliated. 
Now Notre Dame prepares to meet SC 
Two years ago Notre Dame prepared to again. But where is the "electricity?" meet SC once more. The campus mood Where are the massed thousands roaring was "absolutely electric." Thousands for revenge? We have heard enough of massed, roaring for revenge. The the team's problems. We have heard far campus was blanketed by signs vowing too many vicious rumors about the coach. vengeance Spontaneous rallies broke out Snickering defeatism has no place at 
in the library. Notre Dame entered as the Notre Dame. underdog but united. Troy fell. We went Again we must stand united. Again on to the National Championship., Troy Jl!~st fall. 

He was cutting down a sign I had we read as rather poor. Strangely painted the nigN before which enough, however, some of our simply said, "Cream the Trojans." class' most interesting discussions He stated his reason for breaking have flowed from books which I
Break-In 
into my room and stealing my sign initially viewed as meaningless. was that the sign had sexual Mader stated that "many of the connotations. students don't know what they are 
Dear Editor: Now I don't know what is wrong talking· about," thus causing with this place, but it seems to me discussions to fail. This seems a 
I would like to take the time to that the tactics of the Ad­rather demeaning view of the share an experience I had today ministration (ie. picture taking, thoughts of one's fellow students. when I returned from the library at etc.) are going just a little bit far. Can it be that one can only learn about 2 p.m. I went to unlock my This university is not a prison or a through a professor's spoon-fed room and to my surprise I found it reformatory. When the Dean oi lecture, and can learn nothing open, I walked in and found Dean Students breaks into rooms lhrough the sometimes indirect Roemer inside with the screens because of some vague notion of route · travelled by class pulled off my window. wholesomeness, its time to close discussion? 
N.D. down and bring in the Collegiate Seminar has af­straightjackets. forded me the opportunity to have
*The Observer 
a meaningful discussion on Tom E\·ans something other than the weekend's football scores. Who
Night Editor: AI Rutherford 
would have ever though I would

Asst. Night Editors: Marti 
enjoy a heated debate over
Favors

Hogan, Terry Keeney 
whether truth is an objective or

Layout Staff: TRS, Debbie 
. 
subjective entity before this semester? I think Collegiate

Dahrling 
Day Editor: Mary Reher 
Seminar 
Seminar for allowing it to happen.

Copy Reader: Mary Egan, Fred Herbst 
Dear Editor: Michale Pesce 

Editorials: Martha Fanning 
I'd like to take a little space to
Featuresl Val Zurblis 
respond to Bob M'lder's article
Sports: Tom Kruczek, Fred 
labeling Collegiate Seminar as a
Herbst, Bill Brink 
flop. I happen to be one of the
Typists: Tessie Clemens, Mel 
evidently few people on campus
Celeste, Tom Whelan, Hank 
who enjoys seminar and sees it as
Van Dyke, Howard Halle 
having some real value. In­
Compugraphic: Chip Spina 
cidentally, I think most of my
Night Controller: Tom O'Neil 
classmates would concur with me
Ad Layout: Mike Miller, Pat 
on that opinion.

Russell, Tom Whelan, Paul 
I am certainly not a classics
Tlmmons 
freak, and view some of the books 
All letters to the editor should be sent to The Observer, Edit­orial Editor, Post Office Box Q or brought to the office of The Observer located on the top floor of the LaFortune Student Center .. 
All letters are subject te1. editing for length and taste, and should be concise as possible. 
·-· 

aerioua~, falk 
Comeback Trail 
liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~--art buchw aId 
WASHINGTON--The New Nixon was sitting on the J)Orch of La Casa Pacifica at San Clemente slumped in his chair staring out at the sea. The Old Nixon carrying a golf bag came out jauntily whistling "Hail to the Chief." 
"Where are you going?" the New Nixon asked bitterly. "I'm going to play golf with the Teamsters at La Costa," the Old Nixon said. "What a day." "How can you play golf after what we've been through?" the New Nixon asked. 
"Cheer up, Dicky boy," the Old Nixon said. "We're on the comeback trail. Look at this. We're on the cover of Newsweek magazine. Did you ever dream we'd ever make the cover of 
Newsweek again," . The New Nixon shook his head. "I don't get it. You never give up, do you?" 
The Old Nixon said, "You're damn right I never give up. They had me counted out after the presidential election in 1960. They said I couldn't get elected dogcatcher after I lost for governor in 
1962. But I fooled them, Dicky, and I'm going to fool them again. They haven't heard the last of Richard Milhaus Nixon.'' ''I wouldn't believe it if I didn't see it with my own eyes," the New Nixon said.. 
"Wait until our book comes out," the Old Nixon said. "Just wait until they hear out side of the story. There will be more than Teamsters wanting to play golf with me then." 
"Richard," said the New Nixon, "do you really think we can make a comeback? Or are you just saying that to make me feel better?" 
"It's in the cards, Dicky. After my interviews with David Frost, the American people are going to see that all we were trying to do was protect the Presidency of the United States. Oh, there will be some who will say we lied and we cheated and we brought disgrace on the office. But we won't hate them for saying that." 
"We won't?" the New Nixon said. /'No," replied the Old Nixon, "but we'll keep their names on file .Cards and someday when we're back in power they're going to be (?orry they ever made an issue of Watergate." "What are we going to say about Watergate in our book?" 
"It was a mistake, and we should have taken more of an interest in what our staff was doing. They let us down. But we're not going· to blame them. We're taking full responsibility for their actions, no matter how contemptible they were and no matter how much we disapproved of the illegal manner in which they carried out our orders. As President it was our job to see that they did not violate the trust we had given them, in spite of all the other things we had on our mind during that momentous period in American History." 
"I think Peoria will buy it," the New Nixon said. 
"It will just be a matter of time. Dicky, before we're on top again," the Old Nixon said. "We'll take a trip to China, then to the Soviet Union and then to the Middle East. They love us over there, not like the creeps in this country who always had it in for 
us." The New Nixon was suddenly coming out of his lethargy. "You know, You might just possibly swing it," he said. "Six months ago I wouldn't have given 18 1h minutes of tape for our chances of making a comeback. But now with the book and the TV and the Teamsters I'm starting to feel like a new man." The Old Nixon slapped him on the back. "Atta boy, Dicky. Don't forget what they tried to do to Patton." "Richard," the New Nixon said, "do you think they'll invite us to the Republican National Convention?" "Invite us?" chuckled the Old Nixon. "Would you believe the keynote speaker?" 
DOONESBURY 
by Garry Trudeau 
=:t~rffc~sr~ 
OF~ 7l) JOIN THe l<ffAL li/(Jfll,/)/ MP IN THe~ /J/0~ 
THe 816 C/1r1PANI65 66T/N51Jatf} 
IF YOU /JON'T 1£T 7JOf5I/OW 
7116/e ~JATION/____..._ 
"'~~ 
MAC, I'M 6J.AP M/1.'/ai&, W& HAP THIS >WSAY?.. urrt-e avtr! 
\ 

Friday, October 24, 1975 the observer 
9 

Letters to a Lonely God 
the sunshine ministr~ 
reverend robert griffin 


One of the really embarrassing ad­vantages of being the University Chaplain, with lots of spare time on one's hands to be used for the development of a really creative ministry, is that one is free, on warm, autumn afternoons, to sit on the low. gray polished wall outside the en­trance to the Memorial Library, and greet all the busy people who hurry by. Sitting there in the sunshine on my tuffet of stone, I eye the harried administrators, teachers, graduate students, and un­dergraduate liberal arts majors; and they eye me, and each of us envies the other. I wish I could be as obviously important as they are; they wish they could be as in­dolent as I seem to be. Their lives are controlled by a schedule of events, classes, and meetings. Government grants and contracts to the University are contingent on their efficiency and industry. The economy and politics of Third World countries depend on the studies they are making, the papers and books they are writing. Emerging countries look to them for leadership; Southeast Asians by the millions will perish, if they neglect to be energetic, and Europe will fall to the Communists. Truth itself will fail; beauty will falter; and culture will be trivialized, if their scholarship grows slack. The dialogue of civilized men will become as insipid as the chatter of television talk shows presided over by Joey Bishop. 
We are dealing here, of course, with the fantasy of an insecure cleric turned into sun lizard by th October afternoon. lm­portant work is being done by the people of Notre Dame, but nobody is claiming to be Messiah. It is not the students' fault nor faculty's fault if, in a world of brief cases and attaches cases, where the merest freshman goes around with a computer st­rappedtohis hip, there is a chaplain who feels as classy as a brown paper bag emptied of lunch. If I sit on a gray stone wall with mv back to a building which 
• • e • • • j 
• 
houses the wisdom of a million books, 
neither the faculty nor the students tell me 
my time seems wasted; they may not even 
feel that my time is wasted. After all, I did 
read a book once; they must know that; 
and I've walked through the library. I 
must have walked through that buidling 
two or three times. It's not their fault that 
I'm not compelled to attend meeting af­
ter meeting, held back to back, hour after 
hour, as they are. I've attended meetings 
oefore; and I still do, once in a while. I 
even used to attend meetings in the Main 
Building. 

If you don't have to attend meetins, how do you know if you're important, or not? That's what I ask myself. Few meetings, to attend; no computer on my hip; no brief case, or attache case to carry; no im­portant papers to put in a brief case, if I had one. I do have appointments. I write those appointments down in a little book with covers fhat seem almost like leather. I write down appointments and oc­casionally I keep those appointments. If it's warm. I sit outsde the library, talking to people who sometimes make ap­pointments. That's my life; and if oc­casionally I weep for a hectic schedule and a brief case full of secrets, whose fault is it? Nobody's; that's who's. It is cert­ainly not the fault of the scholars who are constantly riding th backs of hurricanes. I must know that I'm better off than those hustling pundits, because it is they who say to me: "What do I have to do to get a job 
lik.e vours?. ,
" 

"Put on weight," I'm tempted to say. "Lose your hair. Have trouble with your teeth. Become a sentimentalist. Let them say of you that you don't suit the image. Become a sentimentalist. Walk around with rumpled clothes in the company of a disreputable little dog. Then maybe someone will imagine that you are a pastoral figure, and give you the chance to prove it." If these words seem whining, they are not intended to be. It's only that sometimes I get scared of being inadequate at a job whose basic duty is to tell busy and gifted people that they are loved. 
I do think that wall-watching can be defended as a pastoral appraoch. If all the ministries had to be excercised in clean, well-lighted places at thee o'clock\in 
the morning, then the apostolate would most literally be an errand done in the darkness. Out of all the lost sheep of the 
House of Israel, I can remember only Nicodemus as the Gospel figure who came to Jesus by night. Most of the rest of his ministry took place out of doors, exceptfor the places where .He dined. He never seemed to use an office. Mountaintops and lakesides satisfied Him with their gran­deur, or fields where the corn was ripening, or meadows where the lilies were more radiant that the robes of Solomon. What need is there to catalogue the ob­vious? I would enjoy a ministry to seafarers, I could walk on the waves to work; but the Lord seems to keep most of the lake-rescues for Himself. I mention these things because there is an opinion that desks are required before one can properly be busy. That is like saying that grottos are needed before prayers can be answered, or that marriage can be con­sumated only in bed. 
, It may be objected, shouldn't preacher-types be peripatetic rather than wall­flowers? Weren't Francis of Assisi and St. Dominic wandering friars who might have built a waH, or leapt over a wall, but who would scorn to be lazy creatures who sat on a wall like Humpty-Dumpty? And we all know what happened to him. Obviously, there is a ministry of walking; I've even done it myelf. People who practice the ministry of walking are seldom caught at being ministers, because nobody knows what they are up to. A priest in mufti who walks is indistinguishable from a minor 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • poet who walks, and both of them are in­
• distinguishable from a physicist walking 
• • on his way to a bomb-testing, unless one or • • the other of them pauses to gaze at the 
e e flowers. Unlike wall-watching, the. tu week preul'ew •ministry of walking is a covert operation, 
• • and the sidewalk minister is a kind of • • closet Christian whom the crowds can pass • • by as harmless. Wandering stars may
• 
bIJ fOm O'n e'/• never pass each other; they may be always 

• 
·' :!. I • moving away from the others. Those stars e • • • • • • • • • e • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• e • • • • ~ • • • stand a better chance of meeting if one of


The movies this week include Sounder and The French Connection. Sounder, starring Cicely Tyson and Paul Winfield, was an important film in 1972, critically praised and well-attended while touring the national theaters then. It focuses in­tensely on the trials of a black family during the Depression, a small circle of sharecroppers in Lousiana who endure separation, depression and the poverty of economic plight. It is an excellent drama and an admirable piece of direction on the 
~rt of Martin Ritl (Con~~), but the film's greatest difficulty is that it boarders on triteness and melodrama. Still, in comparison to the other black films Hollywood has given us, this is one of the contemporary classics, a black phoenix of 
cinema.  Tonight at 7 on 28.  
The  French  Connection,  that  over­ 
praised thriller of 1971 which  was  more  

like an excellent late-late show than the film of profound greatness which the Oscars had made it, will be televised Thursday at 7 on Channel 22. The strength of the movie is its truth-based script and an entertaining performance by Gene Hackman .<who was unfortunately awarded an Oscar for it). The film was voted the "Best" of its year by the Academicians <who must have been out to lunch for the voting), but regardless of that, it is at least exciting entertainment, and interesting because of its factual foundation. The plot is. based on New York's "Popeye" Doyle's investigation of heroine-smuggling attempt involving a multimillion dollar shipment of the inner­city drug. The most celebrated scene from the entire film is <typically, in the Bullitt tradition of money-making cinema ex­citement) the chase scene. Granted, it is a scene of gripping suspence, but must they <the Producers) also succeed in mutilating a beautiful bronze Pontiac? As a student, I have lost quite a bit of sleep over that scene and over that Pontiac. 
Some Ingmar B~rgman films wlll be telecast out of C~1c~go next w~k on ch~nne! 11. They_ Will mclude The Sllence, 
\\tid Stra~bernes, Through. a Glass Darkly, Smde~ of a S~mmer N1ght an~ so o_n .. The mov1e vers10ns of the all-ttme f1chonal best-sellers, Peyton Place and Valley of the ~oils can be •caught late shows th1s ~eekend. They ha~e been on a num~r of t~mes. befor~, b~t this w~k they m~r_It mention Simp)~ m v1ew of their competitiOn. My apologies to Bergman.
A BBCpre~n~tioo ofV~~~e~ Can­dide will be aired on PBS this week. The 18th-century classic about a young man's odyssey through the Inquisition, war and other oblique atrocities will be uniquely produced, using occasional animation and other special effects. To be shown Thursday opposite French Connection (at nine o'clock) on channel 34. Candide is portrayed by Ian Oglivy. The special of the week will be a re-run of the Missiles of October, a dynamic and edifying representation of the Cuban Missile Crisis of the New Frontier Ad­ministration. The three-hour dramatization is the work of Stanley Greenberg (of "Pueblo" success) and stars William Devane, Martin Sheen and Howard da Silva. It is strongly recom­mended. To follow French Connection. Bob Hope has a special on this week <again--it seems he always does). This one, however, is an anniversary show wrapping together, for nostalgia buffs, 25 years of vintage scenes from previously televised comedy shows. The show, un­derstandably, promises a marquis jam­med with Hollywood's most celebrated names: Cagney, Crosby, Benny, Sinatra, Wayne, Gleason, etc, etc. The NFL line-up for television on Sunday is: Redskins vs. Browns at 1 p.m. on 22; Steelers vs. Packers at 2 p.m. on 16; and the Dolphins meet the Bills at 4:30 on 16. Monday night football features the Vikings against the Bears (9 p.m. on 28). 
them becomes a fixed point; that way, eventually, one of them might dance into the other's sight. As with stars, so with shepherds. Shepherds, at times, need to become fixed points, too. For the sake of the sheep, they need to walk through the vaJJey of the shadow of death. That is the Jesson of the Psalms and the tent chapter of John. But if they would tame the fox 
that hc.rasses the chickens, there are 
assigned hours in the afternoon when they 
must remain almost perfectly still that is 
the lesson of Saint-Exupery. There are two places in the world where 
I have made my home: one is in New York, where the stoop-sitters are the best known and best entertained folks in the 
neighborhood. All street ministry in New York begins with stoop-sitting in places where you can see and be seen. The other place where I have lived is New England, in both Massachusetts and Maine, where I was born and raised. 
Up in Maine, we know the proper uses of a wall. I'm not sure if Henry David Thoreau would have known anything else to do with a wall but sit on it. Ifhe sat on it, that wall would become his instant Walden, where he could see the bees at work and the woodchucks at play, and he could become acquainted with a family of chickadees. At Notre Dame, we have no woodchucks that I know of, and only a very few bees, and the chikadees, if they come here, raise their families on the other side of the Jake. But there is a beauty of trees and grass and shrubs; they bear watching, until all our;-mood is reverence. And there are people here: girls who write poems and young men who tell stories. There are couples who whisper of babies to be born in their marriage, and there are children who wait for their fathers. There is the young theologian with a book to be read, and the middle-aged philosopher with a book to be written. There is the young man of twenty who says he will be married in the spring, and there are nuns and faculty widows. There are the com­mitteed Christians and the alienated Catholics. There are the saved, the lost, 
the despairing, the sweetly idiotic. There are the saints and the scholars, the humble ones and the great ones, there are the leaders and the followers. 
All of them come, sauntering or running, in weariness or rushed importance, by the 
walks leading to the library. They greet you with a nod, a wink, a grunt, a greeting, or a conversation; a few of them ignore you all together. 
For achaplain,~his is the world that has been given him instead of classrooms, libraries, computers, term papers, or research grants. They may not know they are his world; they may not Wi;lnt to be his world. They may resist allowing them­'selves to , be any part of his world. 
But' he comes there to that low, gray wall outside the Memorial Library. He comes to watch over those he might not otherwise see. For all his apparent indolence, he is really doing something, or at least he thinks he is. His work is not the student's work, nor the -teacher's work, nor the ad­ministrator's work, although it invovles elements'of all these kinds of dedication. Sometimes it just seems to be a kind of waiting. Sometimes waiting, or its ap­pearances, can be the most embarrassing work of all the chores that Universitv people are called to do. • 

~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

WOULDN'T IT BE NtCE ,....the Buch Boys after an Irish victory? TheywiUiae 1t -~~S.tvnll 




u a a
= 

10 the observer-Friday~October 24, 1975 -=-= 
Student report well-received by trustees 

'continued from page 1) 
<Br. Just Paczesny) " and the "Student Body President <Ed Byrne)." 
Report Well Received 
The student report was well­received by the members of the Trustees' Subcommittee on Student Affairs. 
"I was quite impressed," <.·ommented Richard W. Murphy, a partner in the law firm of Murphy, Lamere, and Murphy. "It was interesting to see how many dif­ferent people are working so hard to improve the quality of student life." 
~1urphy expressed concern that 
1.. 
the work of the COUL report be 
·r, 
I; 
the last. "Everyone's much more 
positive," he stated. "There is still

SMC auction raises $400 
by {'hris Hopkins Starr Reporter 

St. Mary's students bought $400 worth of goods in the continuance of the United Way auction Wed­nesday night in the cafeteria. 
Co-directorsCathyCoyne and Dr. Miller of the Psychology Depart­ment decided to continue T­uesday's auction because of its success and the remaining amount of donated goods. Tuesday's auction raised $400. 
"Faculty advisor Dr. Miller and Dr. Balka . of the Mathematics Department performed the auc­tioneering duties. They did a commendable job which showed in the students' generous response," said Coyne. 
Some of the more interesting items of Wednesday's auction included an authentic antique beeer keg from the 100 Center bought for $17, a personal dinner for six served by the Saga management for $17, a Kodak camera for $16, and Dr. Bam­banek's donation to paint a resident's room in her favorite color for $23. 
The St. Mary's community helped the United Way campaign by surpassing the $5,500 goal by at least $100, stated Coyne. The final ' J figures are not in yet, but the followed up. "Other students" he said, "will have to continue the 
momentum., not only now but in future years." 
"It was very good report," said Dr. Philip J. Faccenda, University counsel. ''This. is the first time in my memory that students have followed up a report with a follow­up report. That's the way to get things done in any field,'' he commented. 
"The study of student life is dynamic," Faccenda noted. "One of three things can happen to any given proposal; it can be satisfied immediately, it can be satisfied in long-range terms, or it can be dropped as student interests 
a lot to be done and many things

amount raised this year is about 
that have to be improved, but the

double of that raised last year, she 
students have confidence that they
added. 
know how to get things done."

This is the third year St. Mary's 
John A. Schneider, President of

has held a United Way auction. 
the CBS Broadcasting Group,

All 1.0.U. contributions should 
termed student participation in the

be given to Coyne at 469 LeMans by 
COUL report "most responsible."
Tuesday, Nov. 4. 
The report , Scneider said, was "of

According to Coyne, the overall 
the highest order, and that's

campaign was "really a big suc­
evidence of a first-rate effort."

cess." Coyne recieved much 
Scneider compared the COUL

positive feedback from students. 
report to a snapshot. "It's not all­

"The students had a very en­
inclusive or all-encompassing," he

joyable time and received the sat­
said. "It's a snapshot taken at a

isfaction that goes with giving to a ' 
certain time last year. The 

worthwhile cause," she added. 
'Do non-s1Dokers have more fun? 
HOLLYWOOD, Fla. <AP)-"We're people who enjoy having good times without having smoke blown in our faces," says the founder of what the American Lung Association and other anti-smoking groups call the nation's first singles club for non-smokers. 
"In three months, the response has been amazing," said Dave Citron about Fresh Air 
·Singles, the club he founded last July. "We have more than 200 members in the Miami and Fort Lauderdale area now, and have been asked about membership by many other people who after hearing about us have come to realize how much they dislike smoke." 
problems it revealed have been hoc committees break down. We'll addressed and recommendations be meeting next week," Byrne have been made. Other snapshots said, "to divide up individual will have to be taken at future recommendations." · dates," Scneider said. It .may take some time, Byrne 
Student Body President Ed cautiOned, to assemble a group of Byrne said that he hoped that people to work on the ad hoc "with allowance for a month or two committees. Some recom­of adjustment , the SLC will begin mendations may take longer thatn functioning as the Committee on others, he said. Undergraduate Life did." "We've only been back about a 
Byrne . who is also Chairman of month and a half," Byrne noted. the SLC, said implementation of "When you talk about time to the COUL recommendations change things and bring these "depends largely on how we the ad recommendations to fruition--we 
--------iust havPn't had rnurh "
1 ---------­
INSTANT CREDIT 
couPON I 

I DICK'S ~ FREE I 
~ J [4'J ;~;.e I
~LJ!. "Qil CHANGE"
Amerocan 
E. CORBY Oil Motor 
I

I I /1!1 R~f~C~~=~tCE WITH TUNE-UP I 
I MOTORTUNE~UP-(BRING co 
BRAKE SERVICE . "'==~. uPON IN) I
I 
WHEEL .o-DIAL ALIGNMENT 
I

I Dick Kruk. Own•r 234-0707 MON.-SAT. 7am-llpm
I ll02 So. fiend Ave. SUN. 9am-9pm I
I South Bend, lnd 46617 (DISCOUNTS NOT AP­
I PLICABLE TO SPECIALS) I

change." 
John J. Rockefeller IV, former president of West Virginia Wesleyan College, found it "in­teresting that there was not total agreement over the future cour­se." Some students favored the establishment of a permanent Committee on Undergraduate Life, Rockefeller said, while others preferred to transfer its respon­sibilities to the SLC. 
"I would be inclined to favor the latter viewpoint," Rockefeller stated, "and allow the SLC to handle the responsibility. Until it proves otherwise, we must assume that the SLC can do it." 
Rockefeller noted a difference in attitude between this meeting and 

three cheers-for the season! -for rabbit coats! -for Mr. Leonard's sale prices! 
rabbit iackets 
were to 199.do 
rabbit oantcoats 
were to 285.00 
rabbit coats 
were to 375.00 
Mr. Leonard's football season special ­·fine french rabbit coats at very special 
reductions. Many styles, just right for this season's activities, and prices dropped on €ach! 
cash charge layaway 

extended terms PARK FREE available 
in our lot


Don't Let 'Your 
/ 
Life Be Empty 
Life is empty for many-the starving, the diseased, the unwanted, the unloved all over the world. Help­ing them to a fuller life can keep yours from being empty. The Holy Cross Fathers are trying-as teach­ers, parish priests, missionaries, social and communi­cations workers and so on. You name it-we prob­ably do it. Write the Holy Cross Fathers: 
FATHER JOSEPH CAREY, C.S.C. 
BOX 541 
ST. JOSEPH HALL NOTRE DAME, IND. 46556 

--·-. . . . ... . .. . .. .. .. ......... ----...... -.......... -· ............. -..... "--': ~ .. ": ....... ~ ~ . -: .. .. .. .. ............... "' ... .. .. .
-·­

~ • • ..... .f. .. • ''--"., • W41_~.-" '· l!l'P ~··• t ....:.&.'4•A'•',._'il¥ ........ •., "a •.•. ',_\ •• .,l,.,._ I. It • I' • j • • • • • •,. • .. lJ • a •;,. '\ • .. • • ... • • • • _.................v.v_'t"_'9.
• • e t: -~ t e·c·c r·, -""'"'-6·~ 6'· '" ":•. · 1\l.li. ,_ ~~' •·,. ,. "' .. ~ · • •-· -~ ·· · · · · · -•-· 
Friday, October 24, 1975 
the observer 1 1 

Rejects Ford's proposal 
House panel votes $10.7 billion tax cut 
Ry CARL C. CRAFT Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON <AP) -The House Ways and Means Com­mittee on Thursday approved its chairman's $12.7-billion plan for extending 1975 personal tax cuts into 1976. But it rejected attempts by President Ford's backers to require budget cuts to accompany new tax reduc­
tions.  
The  committee,  by  a  21-16  
vote,  accepted  a  plan  which  
would  amount  to  an  additional  

$2.6-billion tax cut next year compared with the 1975 Tax Reduction Act. The plan would permanently keep some parts of that law, restructure and continue others just for 1976, and discard some features of that law when they die Dec. 31. 
But first it rejected some parliamentary efforts to link the continuation of tax reduc­tions to congressonal action set­ting a federal spending ceiling for the next fiscal year. 
President Ford has said re­
peatedly  he  will  veto  any  tax­ 
reduction bi ll  that does  not  con­ 
tain such  a  ceiling.  

The proposal, by chairman AI Ullman, 0-0re., was accepted as part of the wide-ranging tax bill which the committee is pre­paring for presentation to the full House next month. 
In addition to the $12.7 billion in individual income tax cuts, Ullman has suggested another $2.3-billion reduction in taxes paid by businesses. 
After approving Ullman's in­dividual tax proposal, the com­mittee discussed but did not vote on changes in business taxes. It is to resume work next week. 
All 12 Republicans and 4 Democrats joined in opposing Ullman's proposal. The four Democrats included the com­mittee's former chairman, Rep. Wilbur D. Mills, D-Ark. The other three were Reps. Omar Burleson, D-Tex.; Joe D. Wag­goner Jr., D-La.; and Andrew Jacobs Jr., D-Ind. 
The Ullman proposal would extend and make permanent the 1975 Tax Reduction Act's special $30 across-the-board tax credit for every taxpayer or de­pendent for whom a taxpayer claims the current $750 person­al exemptions. 
That $30 credit would be re-

Caroline escapes bomb attack 
LONDON <AP) -A "very shaken" Caroline Kennedy nar­rowly escaped injury and pos­sible death Thursday when a bomb believed set by Irish ter­rorists exploded outside the townhouse of a crusading anti­tenorist member of Parliament with whom she was staying. A ehance telephone call saved her. 
But the bomb, planted under the car of Conservative Hugh Fraser. a longtime friend of the 
_ Kl'tmedy family, killed a promi­nent Bt·i tish cancer specialist who Jived next door. He was walking his poodle in the quiet, tree-lined Campden Hill Square in the fashionable Kensington district. Seven other persons, in­cluding a Filipino woman who worked as cook and housemaid for the Fraser family, suffered slight injuries. Fraser, 57, was thrown out of a chair by the blast and his forehead was slightly cut by flying glass. He said the 17­year-old Miss Kennedy, daugh­ter of the late President John 
F. Kennedy and Jacqueline Onassis, was in her bedroom when the bomb went off at 8:53 
a.m. and hurled jagged chunks of his white Jaguar severaL hundred yards in all directions. 
rOWN & ('()l!NTRY 
THEATRE 
STAHTS TODAY 1:45 3:~5 5:45 7:45 »:45 
It's the some two dudes from "Uptown Saturday Night'.'.. but this time they·re back with kid dyn-o-mite! 
81111119 PIITIER 
BILLC8SB9 
with JIMMIE 'J.J.' WALKER 
He said Miss Kennedy had just finished breakfast and that he was going to drive her to Sotheby's, a London auctioneer of fine arts where she is en­rolled in an 11-month art course. 
He said a telephone call from a fellow parliamentarian de­layed their departure and kept them inside at the time of the blast, which shattered the win­dows of the four-story tow-of $30 apiece for the taxpayer and dependents in the family. Thus, in some cases, the $30 minimum would ovrride the general $240 maximum. 
For instance, rather than the $240 general maximum, $270 would be provided to a tax­paying family composed of hus­' I band, wife and seven children. 



---.....-­

Friday, October 24, 1975
12 the observer 
Hearst contends 'With prison life 
REDWOOD CITY, Calif. sale items such as cosmetics Johnson. who with F. Lee Bail-day in the corridor outside her eight-by-ten foot cell. 


<AP) -Patricia Hearst spent and cigarettes. 
ey is in charge of her defense. '~'~***************************** 
her 35th day in jail Thursday Lunch is at 11:30, dinner at 
~:;:\.~ays he spends hours !MAKE THIS ~ with no prospect of release ­4:30. Lunch might be soup andeither to her parents' home or 
sandwich, dinner might be 
to a mental hospital -for vegetable J. District on Judge Oli-:**
chicken, potatoes, verU.S. Carter Court Wednesday :* . CHRISTMAS A 
nearly two more weeks. salad, said. postponed Miss
and McDonald Hearst's com­"Boredom is the main thing 
Lights out technically is 9 petency hearing for the third t
prisoners have to learn to cope p.m., "but we usually let them 
It* tTENNIS XMAS''*
with," said San Mateo County time and set it for Nov. 4.
watch the news at 11 if they first had been scheduled for * * Sheriff John R. McDonald Jr. 
want," the sheriff said. "Some Oct. 7, but two members oi4 a * • * in an interview. "It's a very evenings the women get togeth­court-appointed psychiatric: GIVE THAT SOMEONE SPECIAL * boring life, inside the jail. Oth­er and make Kool-Aid or cof­
panel h~d ~ot submitted their* A "SPORTING" GIFT THAT WILL * 
erwise, you get to or they talk cook reports for second
can used it fee, the into m time the * very quickly." 
sending over some cookies." 
dea~line this week.. . #"SERVE LOVE" ALL YEAR 'ROUND*McDonald said Miss Hearst is Miss Hearst fills the long
··a perfectly normal prisoner" Miss Hearst, 21, 1s bemg held * :
l1ours watching television andwho talks with many of the 25 reading some of the 50 or so without bail on federal bank * * 
robbery charges. Her lawyers * sPENI's * 
or so inmates in the women's letters she gets a day. She 
asked trans-

section but has formed no have that be *
close she * 
.spends most of the time in her
friendships. to hospital * *
cell or in the maximum secur­ferred a ~ental the
At first, McDonald said, ity corridor. pending trial or released to the * pRO sHop * 
other prisoners were curious custody of her parents. * *
Women prisoners are sup­about the much-publicized 
plied with a choice of two out­As of last week, McDonald * * newspaper heiress. "Now she's fits that McDonald called
just another inmate, and every­~~li:~edM~sns h~u~a~~t re~~i~~ti~~ # 321 SOUTH NOTRE DAME #
"chic" -a wraparound dressbody just gets along fine." 
smock and slacks.
or a in a room with exercise equip-* SOUTH B~N ~ * 
Wakeup and nose count ·in the On visiting days her routine 
ment. Before, the only exercise.* ~*****.* 9~~-~71? * jail are 6 a.m., followed by is broken by time spent with 
she was a of hours ar** *** ** *******-.~~~~>.~­
breakfast at 6:30. Later in the her family or a few close morning a matron brings friends. Most days she also is around a cart and offers for visited by Boston lawyer Albert
r----------·--­
1 RADIATOR 
I I I 

! 
uWE CAN HANDLE THE TOUGH ONES" 
SINCE 1922 
289-5850
I I I I I I 
I I
I • CLEANING • RECORING 
II 
• GAS TANK REPAIRING 
I 
"TOUGH GUY" 

Welding · Heaters I I I 
SAME DAY SERVICE 
I I 

1136 MISHAWAKA I I 
I''IF YOU HAVE A ROUGH TRIP AHEAD 
I 

I OF YOU, CHECK OUT THE I I 'TOUGH GUYS'." I 
~-------------------J 
WANTED 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Would appreciate (and help pay Hey Cambell, Welcome to NO. for> ride to Chicago Oct. 31. Call While you're here I hope you don't Shevawn, 4-4812. have a heart attack or anything
FOR SALE

DESPERATELY NEED 2 G.A. NOTICES because of all the beer you'll drink 
NeE'd 1 GA tickt:>t for Navy; Call at Corby's. a OJ fan.
USC TIX • ANY PRICE. CALL
Shotsi, 289-8800. 
1942. 

Pure brt:>d Irish setter puppies. Dumpling, Hali a really good time
Pregnant and didn't mena to be? 

Call Peter 272-6930.
Net:>d six Navy tickE'tS. Will pay$$. on our last outmg. Goggles on tr.~
Need 2 Beach Boys tix . Call Jim call Birthright 288-7640.
Also, 1 student u,.s.c. ticket tor plant are a must.
272-9026.

sale. Call Rich 1683. 
For Sale: Pioneer SX838 Receiver. Don, the bars are ready and waif·Wanted . 4 GA Navy tickets. Call Buy bt:>autiful multi-colored and
Desperately nE>ed ride to area in Pat at at 7128. multi-designed genuine French 50 watts per channel. 2112 months ing. Happy 21st. M.J.M. 
central Ill. weekend of Oct. 24th, old. Sells for new $500. Bob 1400.
leather bt:>lts at one-third oft store 
Hey Don, We did some investigat­will share expenses. Call Nt:>E'd 5 GA USC tix. Call 288-1048. price. Wide selections. See D.

Marybeth 4444. ing and found out your secret.
Shawn 310 Keenan. Call 3318. 

Quality stereo components at 20-40 Happy 21st. Woodward BurnesteinNeed two good Bt:>ach Boy tix, call percent savings. RMS Audio; 321 and the Siblinghood of the Press.
Need 3 GA Navy tickets. Call Jen 1541.
7248. S. Main; 288-1681. 12-7 P.M. (Deep throat told us)
Learn Sport Parachuting the safe Need 2 Beach Boy tix; only good way at Oxbow Air Sports Center; 2 Zogs. So happy to see you, but I get
HELP!! I NEED 8 USC FOOT· 
locations . Call 277-0147. week special-535.00 Jump Course
BALL TICKETS. STUDENT OR Single component phono-AM-F fired of looking at the bottom of
plus $15.00 for first jump. Contact

GENERAL ADMISSION. WILL stereo and tape deck; 2 n~ your teet. Can't you cut the
Date. 683-8980 John 1-782-3500.

PAY$$. CALL NOW!! Needed · Navy and GAA Tech adeqyate speakers retails for S1& numbers? G.W. 
289-9174. Football fix. Call 287-0742. plus ..,Asking for S125. Call Matt. 
Doles the greatest, you're the

1023.
Femal Housemates wanted . ow greatest. The Greatest.er.
I still need 1-4 GA tix any home
Need 2 GA tix tor Navy or Georgia 
and nest semester. 5 min. wall t8
game .. 1327.

Tt:>ch. Call Tom D., 287-0544. 
Angela-N.D. Ave. Call between 5 J2. I wish you a happy, happy 20th
For Sale: four So. Cal tix. Friet:ds
PM and 10 PM 289-4303. ,-ear. I also hope you get your
NE'E'd·3 or 4 G. A. Navy tix together.
All I nt:>ed is 1 GA USC ticket. 7937 from Chicago decided not to drive 
second drink this year. Polly

please; Ed 8600. out. Reasonable. Mark 1196. 
Purebred.

Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. WantE'd: 2 G.A. tickets tor s. Donoho 232-0746.
Nt:>ed USC tickets. EWill pay. Hey, 3.58-3.62,
outht:>rn Cal. Will pay good price.
Please call Kathy, 7937. LOST AND FOUND What can say? My car is filthy
284-7320. after 6 P.M. class of '77! 
and I need inspiration. 0.00
Fulfill your fantasies at the Junior

Need 2 USC tix. Will pay $$. Call 
PE'tE' 234-6352. Help! Need 1 or 2 GA tix to Class Formal -FANTASIA! T· Navy
Lost: blue white stag ski D~nnis-the-Menace, Happy B-day.
Southern Cal, call Peggy 4-5416. ICKETS ON SALE AT Student parka. Call 7802. 
(p1ck any fuzzle-bugs lately?) tee
Union TICKET Office.

Will pay S15 apiece for 2 Student hee hee. Lil' Scruff.
Wanted: 2 GA tickets tor USC . AskUSC tix. Call Rick 287-2219. 
for Ron 9-5 only. Call collect 312· Lost: Silver bracelet with white 
Eddie Haskell, 1hear your parents482-8820.

Need 2 GA USC tix, Call Nancy .• beads and cross at Chicago con­are coming this weekend so how 1285. Student Government t-shirt cert. Sentimental value. Call 6808. about taking me out tor lobster?
Nt:>eded: one good ticket for Beach 
Agency--Call Dave Bossy for top yuk.yuk.yuk. D.M.'s P.S. Ease
'Boys concert. Call Maggie, 277· up.
Wanted: GA Navy, Georgia Tech, quality--low prices on custom 
Pitt. Call 1652. 0794. made t-shirts. 233-3647. Lost: Ladies gold watch, chain 
Must be in Connecticut or Vicinity broken, North Quad. Call 255-7173. Dear UGLIES,by Friday, Nov. 7. Please call Reward.
Need 6 USC GA tickets. 233-5373. YOU ARE SO UGLY. But you are
Ellen at 277-0794 if you can provide JEFFERSON STARSHIP BUS 
generous; Thanks for the new 

a ride that weekend. TRIP OCT. 27TH SlO.SO STUDENT
WANTED: 2 GA USC TICKETS. 'outfit' Love, Chih.•lla.
UNION ZICKET OFFIC.:E PERSONALSCALL 3075. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh Sun. after 
USC game; call 272-3294. Enclosed is $2.00 for mya
NE't'd 2 GA tickets for Navy. Call Tuesday night get together tor
•I Captain Kirke. Happy Birthday
Bob at 288-3472. "75" grads. For into call 4774
Nt:>ed 4 or 5 USC tix. Call 4-5483. two days early. Linda, Karla, ~~~ I TYPING 35 cents a page; call Dan Cris...
crying for 2 Navy Tickets6896. 
272-5549.

Need 4 Jethro lull tix-good seats. Dan 1495. BooBoo,
Needed GA Southern Cal tix. Call Will do typing, experienced. term To the immoratl Reimer-Rhymer 
We're engaged and 1 love it! 

~-papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233-of the OBSERVER, happy birf· Thanks forcoming toup visit.
8512 h~ay on the eve of the S. Cal
Desperately need 1 USC and Navy Hope it's all worthit. 1 love you!
V1ctory.
N~ 2 GA USC tix badlY~· VCall 
ticket. Call Pam 4-4161. YOGI
£lien . 3468. 


: i 
the observer 13

Notre Da:me-usc 
1975 
Tom Kruczek 

Notre Dameand Southern California may not be the oldest of college football's rivalries, but few can boast of the number of classic games that have evolved from that series. Names like Anthony Davis, O.J. Simpson and Pat Hayden from the Trojans spring to mind as stars from these games, while for the Irish Eric. Penick, Joe Theismann and John Huarte are just three of the many heroes from days gone by. 
In the overall series, the Irish hold a slight advantage over USC that has been cut noticeably in the last eight years. Notre Dame has won 26 while losing 16 with four ties. In the last eight years, the Trojans hold ilie edge, winning five times to just once for the Irish, with ties in 1968 and 1969. 
The first game of the series was in 1926 with Knute Rockne as head coach for Notre Dame. The Scholastic at the start of the season stated a fact that since then has been mentioned time and again; that the winner of the game would probably be the national champion. 
The Irish dream became sidetracked the week previous to the first USC encounter by virtue of a 19-Q loss to Carnegie, but that didn't diminish Notre Dame's first trip to the coast. Behind the passing of Arty Parisien, the Irish won 13-12 and ruined the Trojans bid for a national title. 
Skipping ahead to 1930, this contest has often been called Rockne's greatest personal triumph. It was also to be his last. Rockne died in a plane crash on March 31, 1931 with seven other persons over Kansas, but he left in his wake something that was never accomplished before in Notre Dame history. the winning of three national championships in the same decade. 
Notre Dame crushed the Trojans 27-0, outgained them 356 to 94 yards 
and Rockne, the master psychologist outcoached USC. AI Silverman in 
the book The Glor)' of Notre Dame recounts how the Rock did it. 
"The team was scheduled to stay overnight in Tuscon, Arizona and hold 
a practice session the next morning at 9:30. Rockne told his players he 
had left orders to have them called at 8 a.m. When the squad had . retired for the night, he slipped downstairs, and ordered the desk clerk to cancel all calls to Notre Dame players next morning. Silverman continues to explain how when the team finally began to trickle in to the field at 9:30a.m., only Rockne and Hunk Anderson, his assi~ant, were on the fieW. Rockne then t~d ilie ~am iliat he was
tllaking the trip against physicians orders, but he did that because he 
"wanted to make this trip and win this game in Los Angeles. From your 
attitude," he continued, "I'm the only man who really cares about k­
nocking those Trojans up into those nickle seats." With that Rockne left 
the practice. 
Rockne didn't leave Tuscon and head back to South Bend however. Onstead he found a high, isolated spot above the field and watched the most spirited workout of the season. Later the team pleaded with Rockne to stay for the game, which he did, leading them to Notre Dame's fourth win against one defeat in the series, and a second consecutive national 
championship.
The legend of Rockne may have been over, but in 1941• the second legend came to Notre Dame in the form of FrankLeahy· Leahy's record against USC was aremarkable7 wins, one loss and one tie. What was possibly his greatest contest against theTrojans came in 1948 when, with 35 seconds to play in the game Emil Sitko scored and Steve Oracko kicked· the point after to give the Irish a 14-14 tie and preserve a third straight undefeated season, with another unblemished record coming in 1949. That year NO went 10-o with a 32-0 bounding of USC for a national 
championship.The legend of Leahy ended in 1953 after a final 48-14 win over the boys from California· In 1964 on November 2, Sports Illustrated featured a cover stroy en­titled "Notre Dame Returns to Power"• with a new legend emerging--Ara Parseghian. Four weeks later, Notre Dame's dreams of a national title, 
the first since 1949, would be ended abruptly by Rod Serman. That sameweekly magazine would then title a story 'A catch-and Crash Goes Notre Dame' as the hex of SI continued. 
Wl.th fourth,down on the NotreDamel5 and 1:43 to play in the game, the 
USC quarterback Craig Fertig called a pass over the middle. Sherman 
was open and in front of 83,000 people, Notre Dame, who had been number 
one since the sixth game of the season, was dethroned 20-17· 
John McKay was in his fourth season at USC and exhibited then some 
of his now-famous wit. 
Before the game he issued two Mc_Kayism~_. Number one. "l'~e studi~ 
the Notre Dame-Stanford game <whi~h the Irish had won 28,-6> fllm for SI~ 
hours and l'v:. ~orne t~ the conc_lusiOn Notre Dame can t be beaten. 
Number two. I ve decided _that ~~ ~e play our ve_ry best a~? make .no 
mistakes whatsoever, we will defmitely make a first down. The Insh 


were fourteen point favorites, and lost al' undefeated season, but it triggered two Irish victories in a row the next two years. The following year the Irish won 28-7 in

Ernl·e Torrl·ero~~~~~-~~~~~-~~~~­
· .•.•.•....•.-....................~•-•;.o•••;<;.•......Q.•.·--·---·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·.-....•.·.·······-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·--<T.o..-...~"-·~-=···"'·"·"··~·~"'7~x"-~~-=·~·:· 
The Week That Was 
South Bend, but Parseghian was waiting 
for next year's trip back to the Los Angeles 
Coliseum to avenge the 1964 game. 
Coley O'Brien, replacing the injured T­erry Hanratty, threw three touchdown passes and the Irish demolished Southern Cal 51-0 in front of 88,520 stunned fans. McKay in a nearly silent locker room after the contest stated, "I guess I've never seen a better team than Notre Dame was today." 
He had good reason to say that. O'Brien, who was playing his first full game at quarterback, connected on 21 of 31 passes for 255 yards of the 461 ammassed. Jim Seymour pulled in 11 passes for 150 yards and two TD's. O'Brien was named back of the week by Sports 1llustrated for his performance but the magazine still felt that the Irish did not deserve to be called national champs. The reason was the celebrated 10-10 tie against Michigan State a week before the SC game. SI thought Nebraska should be number one, but the polls defied the Cornhuskers, the Crimson Tide and SI by naming the Irish as best. 
After 1966 the slate was less than im­pressive for Notre Dame. Ties in 1968 and 1969 were the highpoints until Eric Penick made his run in 1973, and Notre Dame finally triumphed 23-14. 
Last year shall be ignored. 
The Irish-Trojan series has featured great football and in one day another mark will be placed on the slate. It will surely not pale in comparison with the other 46 games. 


It was to be the week that was. Dusk was settling in on the wind swept Notre Dame 
campus. It was Tuesday,October 23, 1973 and the day had been a bitterly cold one. Ara Parseghian had spent the past tw hours overlooking the 84th edition of Notre Dame football, injecting comments, and witticisms here and there, and reflecting an image of fret that long had become a Parseghian hallmark. All were heading over to training table, the traditional chow-down in the North Dining Hall. 
"Say Ernie. Would you like a ride?" The voice was 
that of offensive backfield coach Tom Pagna. Pagna was never below picking up hungry hitchhikers for the short ride to supper. For the straggling few , it 
was a welcome relief that he'd even pick up famished sophomore student managers. 
Anyone who has ever seen Pagna coach must be impressed by the man's methodical teacher-like manner of coaching. He tutors his1backslike a drill 
1 h · · h h · f 
sergeant, constant Y emp asizmg t e tee mques o
good blocking and running. Pagna had played for 
Parseghian in the early 50's at Miami of Ohio,later joining him as a coach at Northwestern i 1959. Like Ara, Pagna had waited almost seven years for this 
week. "I just have to believe," Pagna contemplated as we waited for the '74 Ford to warm up, "that this year we. are ging to do it. Everything is in our favor. The films show we can run certain plays on them. If there ever was a year, iliis , has to be it. I pray it's a nice day." The upcoming Notre Dame-Southern California game preoccpied 'many a mind on that Tuesday and many Tuesdays prior. The Irish were still stinging from a 45-23 Trojan massacre suffered the previous December. In that debacle, USC running back An­thonyDavisdemonstrated to ilie entire world how easy it was to score six touchdowns versus Notre Dame. To make matters worse, th Irish had not beaten the Trojans since 1966, with ties in '69 and '70 marring an otherwise perfect Trojan slate. In 1973, both teams had galloped off to liJzhtning starts. The two were undefeated and ranked high by the pollsters with USC holding a slight edge in' 'Doth the AP and UPI ballots. 1For this classic grudge-match.one which many believe dates back to the days of Troy, there could be no finer build­up. All week the Notre Dame campus shook wiili ex­citement. The men of Sorin created a mock Anthony Davis and hung the Californian messiah in effigy for all to see. A banner draped the front of Dillon Hall stating, "I will never again lost to a Notre Dame football team -John McKay, November 26, 1966." Impromptu rallies were the vogue in1the dining halls. Friday, October 26 saw the Observer issue one of its greatest issues.On ilie backpage Davis was pictured scoring each of his six touchdowns in 1972. The Sorin lynching was front-page material. Reserve ~lit end Willie Townsend was to utter the famous words which would make the issue a collector's item. A Willie so aptly put it, "The time is now." Saturday, October Tl finally arrived. What Pagna had feared most earlier in the week had come to pass. The day was frightfully overcase. By kick-off time, a mist shoruded over Notre Dame Stadium. On Southern 
Cal's first possession, freshman Luther Bradley perfectly read a Pat Haden screen pass. The ball arrived at the same time as Bradley did. Bradley slammed into split-end Lynn Swann, unleasing the ball from his grasp and catapulting Swann's helmet five yards beyond the collision. The tempo of the game was set. 

After a Bob Thomas field goal, USC's Pt Haden directed a nine-play drive covering 65 yards with Davis dancing in for the one-yard score. Another field goal by Thomas and a Tom Clements walk-in touch­down made the score 13-7 in favor of the Irish at the half. 
Throughout the first half, Pagna and Parseghian carefully toyed with the offense. Line coach Bill Hickey was on the phones to coaches Mike Stock and Brian Boulac, both of whom were sitting ill the press box. Pagna and Ara would confer and Parseghian would signal the play out tl Clements. A patient conservative game plan was to pay off. 
The coaches had noticed a weakness in the Trojan defense. Quickly, the offense was huddled around Pagna as he diagrammed a play in ilie crowded locker room at halftime. 
When the Irish returned to the field the rain had intensified. A Southern Cal punt put the Irish on their own 15. Ara told Clements to run the play that was explained at the half. Quickly the X's and O's sprung to life. Clements took the snap, Art Best drove through the left side of the Trojan front, Gerry DiNardo made ilie block of hisJife, right side tight end Dave Casper swept to his left joining reserve tight end Robin Weber in wiping out the rest of the left side interference and Eric Penick took the Clements handoff. Penick, his hips churning like an Italian 

winemaker  stomping  grapes,  broke  two  tackles  
andraced 85  yards  forthe  score.  Perfection  
personified.  

USCcame right back to score as Pat Haden his Swann with a 27-yard touchdown pass. Swann made an unbelievable grab as Tom Lopienski was with him step for step. 
Parseghian, still seething from ilie fact that Reggie Barnett was ejected ,from the game without warning, was screened out on the play. He raced up the sidelines demanding, "What the hell happened? Did aQybody see what happened?" 
The1Irish hung on to win 23-14. Just before the end of the game, J .K. McKay, a junior split end and the coach's con, could be seen in tears on the SC bench. It was ilie agony of defeat encompassed by the thrill of victory. 
Pandemonium reigned in the Notre Dame locker room . Ara clutched the game ball as he busily chatted with reporters. Pagna was wild with jubilation as he exlaimed, "We are all part of this great victory. I want to congratualte the student mangers. They did just as much to earn this win as anyone else." 
The~following Tuesday, Sports Illustrated came out wiili Notre Dame on the cover. The headline read, "Irish Stack Up USC." In the article Penick explained why he did not do a dance when he scored on that 85­yard run. "Hell," Penick laughed, "I'm no hot dog. This is Notre Dame." 
Indeed, a perfect ending to the week that was. 

-.· .­

1 4 the observer Friday, October 24, 1975 
When they asked John McKay why his tailbacks carried the ball 25-30 times a game, he replied 'Why not? It isn-'t very heavy." 
The Tailback Tale 

He stands about six yards in back of the line of scrimmage directly behind the quarterback and fullback. He is hunched over, hands on knees, staring straight ahead at the defense. He wears dark red helmet and gold pants. His name is Mike Garrett, O.J. Simpson, Clarence Davis, Anthony Davis or now Ricky Bell. He is Southern California tailback and, next to Notre Dame quarterback, he ~lays the most glamourous position in'college football. 
Whatever his name, his acheivements over the past fourteen years defy belief. Eight times he has rushed for over 1000 yeards and ten times he has exceeded the Notre Dame school record total of 927. 
Coach John McKay talks about his great tailbacks in his book "McKay: A Coaches Story". The first was Mike Garrett, who won the Heisman Trophy in 1965. "Mike was only 5-9 and 185 pounds but at the time he was the greastest college player I had ever seen. He was a tremendously strong runner, so damn quick you couldn't believe it. He had much better speed than anyone ever thought he had. And when he was surrounded and going down, he could scramble along thegroundfor more yards faster than some people can run~5tanding up. Mike was a complete football player who did everything we asked of him -and we asked a lot." 
Southern Cal lacked a super tailback in 1966 <Good trivia question: who was the SC tailback between Garrett and O.J. Simpson? Answer: Don McCall) but a man nicknamed Orange Juice came along in 1967 and with McKay's help he stood the football world on it's ear. McKay comments: "O.J. Simpson stood 6·2, weighed 210 pounds and ran the 100 in 9.3. He was the perfect physical speciman for the position of tailback." 
One of McKay's great strengths is his ability to recognize talent and take advantage of it. Simpson averaged over 30 carries a game, including one time when he carried an incredible 47 times. We slipped 
O.J. the ball so often people said I was sadistic." 
Rich. Odioso 
Simpson set an NCAA career rushing record in only two seasons. His first wo years were spent at San Francisco City College where he was a defensive back and flanker but McKay saw the potential for a great running back. 
McKay again saw what no one else saw in Clarence Davis, who was a guard in high school. Davis gained 2,323 yards in two seasons 0969-70) as the TrojanTailback. 
Then it was another Davis, Anthony, for three years <1972-73-74) and a new Pac 8 record of 3.74 career yards. McKay describes Davis. 
''He's has very strong legs, fantastic body balance, long legs for a short man and a unique running style that reminds me of Gale Sayers. He has the ability to split himself like a . Russian dancer and keep run­ning." Davis was a quarterback in high school. 
And now there is Ricky Bell, the heaviest of the tailbacks at 215 pounds. In just six games since moving from fullback last year, Bell has already gained 1068 yards and scored nine touchdowns. McKay describes Bell, as "a super damn runner. He's fast, tough, big, and strong and has the acceleration a good back needs." 
The five tailbacks were all great runners and many have claimed that McKay was lucky to have such talent. McKay concedes their natural talent but also claims, "Great runners are not born. Great' runners are made. The talented young man must be taught how to run, where to run and how to challlenge the defense. And sometimes against his will he must be forced to become tougher than he wants to be." 
"USC backs run hard becuase we insist they run hard. We're always screaming "Run Hard!" We won't play anybody who doesn't." McKay also teaches his runners that, "There's one bad thing abut carrying the football-it attracts a crowd. No one takes a pounding like a top running back." USC backs are taught to absorb contact. They also are taught ac­celeration and concentration. 

Anthony Havis Then there is the naLure of the 1-formation which gets the best from a great tailback. It enables the back to run a large number of different plays. It provides him with optimum blocking and yet does not enable a defense to key .on the run exclusively. Passing has always been an tmportant part of the Trojan offense. This does not mean that Bell will run at will against Notre Dame tomorrow. Notre Dame has often been a~le to h?ld the tailback in check. Only one runner, Stmpson m 1967, has gained over one hundred yards against the Irish. McKay says "Whenever we've beaten Nore Dame its been with the pass." In 1975 things may be different. Vince Evans the Southern Cal quarterback is a great runner but has completed only 32 per cent of his passes and is bothered by a sore thumb. Bell has been averaging thirty carries per game an average only exceeded by . Simpson as a senior. Towmorrow more than ever the center of attention will be the USC tailback. 




Ricky Bell 
O.J. Simpson 



Mike Garrett (5-9, 185) !' 
I' ( 
O.J. Simpson (6-2.210) · 
Clarence Davis (5-11,195) 
Anthony Davis (5-9, 190) 
Ricky Bell <6-2, 215( 

Clarence Uavis 
.. f' I ' ' 
' . 

Carries  VS  ND.  
season  per Game  Yards  TO'S  Carries  yards  TDs  
1963 1964 1965  13 22 27  H33 948 1440  6 10 16  i 21 16  43 85 43  1 1 0  
1967 1968  29 35  1543 1880  13 23  38 21  150 58  3 1  
1969 1970  27 20  1351 972  9 11  30 17  75 72  0 2  
1972 1973 1974  19 25 27  1191 1112 1421  19 15 18  22 19 18  99 55 61  6 1 4  
1975  

Notre Dame. Records-927 Yards, Marchy Schwartz, 1930,18 carr1es a gamt-Wayne Bullock, 1974 

Friday, October 24, 1975 the observer 
15

Dan Devine 
Bill Brink 
His First Trojan War 
If you're a freshman, a that one year we got beaten very sophomore or Dan Devine, then badly by Nebraska. The following you've never experienced the year, we had a very mediocre Notre Dame-USC happening. The team and Nebraska had another 
new head coach of the Irish is great one. But there was no way looking forward to his first we were going to lose to Nebraska, meeting with the Trojans just as I knew that from the moment the eagerly as anyone else. first game was over. My family "I'm very excited and very says I didn't smile again until I anxious,'' he said. "If I had played walked in the door with the game them when I was coaching at ball after we had beaten them." another place then it would be no Although the coach has gone 
different. But SC is something over what has happened previously special because I'm here at Nore he emphasizes that this is 1975, a Dame. Even though I'm new here, new ballgame. 
I'm already caught up in it." "Wanting to prepare, I read the 
Devine concedes that his not file of clippings, letters etc. that having been involved in last year's came out after last year's game. I humiliating 55-24 defeat at USC has threw most of them, the stuff I affected the way he's prepared for dismiss . as garbage, in the 
the game. wastebasket. You know what I 
"It's not a different game for me mean, the reports of strife and to prepare for as head coach," he prejudice. This Saturday is an explaines, "but the way I prepare opportunity to vindicate all that." the team has to be different than if Devine is also eagerly an­I had stood on the sidelines last y­ticipating the campus activity that ar. For me to talk about it as if I is always associated with Irish­was involved would appear to be a Trojan battles. 
reflection on the players and "I think its' terrific that students coaches that were involved, so I are invovled so much," he said. "I can't approach it like that." know that when I was at Arizona "When something like last year State, the Arizona-Arizona State 
occurs, it lingers, and the only rivalry was always bitter, and the release you can have is to win next Missouri-Kansas games, in my don't think either had greatertime. I remember from my own early years at Missouri, were like student participation than Notrepersonal experience at Missouri recreations of the civil war. But I Dame-USC contests." 
Devine has fi great respect for the Trojans and knows it will takeI'm very excited a great performance to beat th­
en1."
and very anxious... "Talent-wise they're very good, I think Ricky Bell is the best since O.J., and defense is their strong
SC is something special because point. We'll have to play better 
defense and better offense to beat USC, but we're playing to win. I've
I'm here at Notre Dame. 
known John McKay for yars, in fact we coached in a Hula Bowl together. He's an excellent coach 
Even though I'm new here, 
and has put together a very sound program."
I'm already caught up in it. As the coach wound down the week towards Saturday's con-
John McKay: 119-36-8 
Fred Herbst 

John McKay, head football coach at the University of Southern California, is no stranger to Notre Dame. 
In fact, McKay has practically made a habit out of ruining the season for the Irish. The Trojans have beaten previously undefeated Notre Dame teams five times <1931, 1938, 1964, 1970, and 1970, three times under McKay. Each prevented the Irish from win­ning national champiosnships. 
Against the Irish, McKay has a record of 7-6-2, but in the last eight years he is 5-1-2. 
Overall, McKay has a record of 119-36-8: 
Since rebuilding the Trojan program, he is 111-25­7 in the last thirteen years. McKay currently ranks 
eighth among active coaches in total number of 
victories. Bear Bryant of Alabama is the leader. 
McKay not only stops the Irish from winning national championships, he wins them himself. USC's Rose Bowl win over Ohio State last season gave McKay his fourth national championsip and his second in the last three years. Bear Bryant of Alabama and Frank Leahy are of Notre Dame are the only only other coaches to capture four national titles. 
The Trojans under McKay's direction, have won national championships in 1962, 1967, 1972 and 1974. They have finished in the top ten of the polls ten times, have won none Pacifie-S championships and have gone undefeated three times. 
The 51 year-old coach has also dominated the prestigous Rose Bowl. McKay has led USC to Pasadena eight times, a Rose Bowl record, and seven times in the last nine years. He has a 5-3 record in the · 
Rose Bowl. USC. 
The USC mentor is also the only coach to go to the Born in Everettsville, West Virginia, July 5, 1923, Rose Bowl four consecutive years. The Trojans McKay was an All-State running back in football and played in the classic in 1967-1970 and could make it a _st~r ~uard in basketball at Shinnston High in West four in a row again on New Year's day of 1976. VIrgmia. After graduation from high school, he 
When USC beat Iowa earlier in the season, McKay worked for a year in a coal mine. He then enlisted in won the 122nd game of his career and became the the Air Force and served in World War II. winningest coach in Trojan history. In 1946• McKay entered Purdue, where as a fresh-
McKay has produced 37 All-Americans as well as man, he started at defensive back. He then tran­two Heisman Trophy winners (Mike Garrett in 1965 sferred to Oregon and was a two-way starter for the and O.J. Simpson in 19580. He was named Coach oft-Ducks in 194Band 1949. The 1948 Ducks, led by McKay he Year in 1962 and again in 1972. and Norm VanBrocklin, went 9-1 and were voted into 
He came to USC in 1959 and spent one season as an the Cotton Bowl, losing to S~U. assistant before becoming the school's 16th head McKay paced t~at team m scoring with eight coach in 1960. He had been an assistant coach for nine touc~downs, and shl~ holds two Oregon records-most Years at his alma mater Oregon before comina to rushmg touchdowns 111 a game(3) and highest caree 
• ' "' avera e er carr 6.4L 


frontation, he said, "I'm really getting excited now. I'm very appreciative of all the support I've received this past week." 
Ernie T o rri e r o :;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;=~=~=;:;:;:;:;:;=~=~=!=~=~=!:!:;=~=~=!=!=!~=~==~===============·=:========== 
lfs and Facts 

Not~e Dame and Southern California meet for the 47th time Saturday, the Insh holding a 26-16 edge. There have been four ties in the series, which dates back to a 13-12 Notre Dame victory in 1926 at Los Angeles. Notre Dame's 51-0 triumph at the Coliseum in 1966 is the largest margin of victory for either school. 
This game marks the second appearance for the Fighting Irish on national television this season. Notre Dame opened the 1975 season by downing Boston College 17-3 in a game viewed by millions through the facilities of the American Broadcasting Company Overall the Irish are 17-11-1 on national telecasts and 8-8-1 on regional telecasts. ' 
Saturday's clash with Southern California marks the first time Dan Devine has faced the Trojans. John McKay and Devine have never met .... on the gridiron. McKay is 7-6-2 versus the Irish since coming to Southern California in 1960. 
Over the past three years, the winner of the Notre Dame-Southern California game has gone on the win the National Championship. The Irish gained title in 1973 and the Trojans defeated Ohio State in the Rose Bowl to claim the crown last year. In the past 10 years, Notre Dame and Southern Cal are pereniallv ranked in the Top Ten in the nation. 
The trojans wifl be headquartered at the Holiday in South Bend located on U.S. 31 north. They will arrive in South Bend via United Airlines special charter at 2:40p.m. Friday. Southern Cal will depart for Los Angeles immediately following the game Saturday. 
After having out-scored their opponents 21-0 each of the last two weeks in the fourth quarter, the Irish have now scored 73 points in the final quarter to 7 for the opposition. The 73 fourth quarter points represents 61 per cent of Notre Dame's seasonal total of 120. 
. Joe Restic broke a 39-year-old record last week with his 51.6 average on f1ve punts. It was the highest average ever by an Irish kicker who att­empted at least five punts in one game, breaking the old mark of 48.7 set by Joe O'Neill vs. Pittsburgh in 1936. 
"IF" 

If Notre Dame wins today it will be the 569th Irish victory in 86 seasons of football. 051 losses, 38 ties.) If ND wins today it will be the first time Dan Devine has defeated Southern California. If Notre Dame wins today it will be its 53rd win in the last 61 contests. 
If the Irish win today Dan Devine will tie John McKay in number of career collegiate wins with 125 victories. If Notre Dame scores today it will mark the 103rd consecutive contest in which the Irish have put points on the board. If Southern Cal wins today it will be the 584th Trojan triumph in 88 seasons of football. 086 losses, 46 ties.) If Southern Cal wins today it will mark the third time John McKay has beaten the Irish within the shadows of the Golden Dome. IfSouthern Cal loses today it will be the Trojans first defeat in the last seventeen games. If Notre Dame loses today it will be the first time since 1963 that Notre Dame has lost two consecutive home games. IfNotre Dame wins today it will be only the second time since 1966 that the Irish have defeated the Trojans. If this game is a sellout it will be the 56th time in the last 57 contests that Nore Dame Stadium has been filled to capacity. 




r-:-~------~-~-~ 
16 the observer Friday, October 24, 1975 
Bli~np. Trojans herefor Irish clash 

( 
't 

l 
~)_ 

by Bill Brink Sports Editor 
The Goodyear blimp is here, the rallies have begun and the bookstore is low on sweatshirts. It can only mean one thing. 
It's the one week that puts South Bend in the paper even more than New York City, and it's all winding down to tomorrow at 12:50 E.S.T. when the University of Southern California meets the Fighting Irish 
of  Notre  Dame  at  Notre  Dame  
Stadium.  
The  Irish-Trojan  contest  has  

been called the greatest inter­section revalry in college football and lately the clashes have borne that statement out. For the last three years, the winner of the NO­USC games has gone on th win the national championship. 
"Obviously they are an out­standing football team," said ND coach Dan Devine of USC. "It's the same Southern Cal football team that we've always played, they come here undefeated. They play exceptional football and play exceptionally well against us. The scouts say they are just as strong, just as fast and just as mature as ever." 
Though Devine has never faced the Trojans, he need only to look at
the past record to see the task that 
awaits him. Notre Dame has beaten USC only once in the last eight years, and twice in that time the Trojans have cost the Irish the national championship. 
If there is any small consolation in Southern Cal's undefeated (6-0) record this fall it lies in their rather unimpressive per­formances against mediocre teams. John McKay's squad has faced Duke, Oregon St., Purdue, Iowa, Washington St. and Oregon
B iII Brink =-:.=====~'$======================================:=:-:t.:::!::::::::::::=:=:=======================================================~==============~====================================================i-:=:=:).=:=: 
The Irish Eye 
Ohio State and Michigan accounted for nearly half of the Big Ten's point total last weekend, shutting out tteir opponents 125-Q. The Buckeyes swanped Wisconsin 56-0 while Michigan routed Northwestern 69-o. Both teams will coast through the rest of their Big Ten segment until they collide in Ann Arbor November 22. 
The Big Eight juggled around a bit, with Colorado handing favored Missouri a 34-20 defeat. But Oklahoma, Kansas and Nebraska won, although the Cornhuskers had a little trouble with Oklahoma St., stifling a Cowboy rally to win 28-20. 
Texas edged Arkansas with it's strong ground attack, and Alabama rolled over a very respectable Tennessee team. Fifth ranked Texas A&M had more trouble though, notching only a 14-6 win over hapless Texas Christian. 
Tereshould be nothing surprising about this week's Big Ten results, and Colorado-Nebraska is the one to watch in the Big Eight. In the south, the Aggies meet Baylor and Georgia Tech travels to Tulane. 
The big match, of course, is right here in South Bend this week, where the Trojans of USC (6-0) clash with the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame (5-1). Southern Cal looked sluggish last Saturday in their. 17-3 win over Oreon, while the Irish pulled off another thrilling comeback to beat Air Force 31-30. 
Here are the Irish Eye's picks: 
Texas Christian at Alabama (Birmingham): The 
tide is moving so well that some say· Bear Bryant 
never ' tkes his team off the field, but just keeps them 
drivit··, back and forth all week until they meet each 
new o~:-:ment every Saturday. They won't even know 
the Horned Frogs are on the Field with them 
tomorrow. TCU has the nations longest losing streak 
in the nation at 16, and the Tide should have no 
trouble extending it. Alabama by 30. Georgia Tech at Tulane: The Green Wave overcame a 14-0 deficit last week to upset West Virginia, while Tech squandered their lead over Auburn. The Yellowjackets powerful ground game, still number on in the country, gives them the edge. Tech by 7. 
Baylor at Texas A&M: The Bears have tied Auburn and Michigan, and have lived on it all season. They were idle last weekend, but got killed by Arkansas two weeks age. Bubba Bean scored the Aggies two touchdowns in thier unimpressive victory over TCU but he leads a strong ground game that shouldgive the Aggies the edge. Texas A&M by 14. Oklahoma St. at Kansas: Both are good, but the Cowboys are better. OSU by 7. Iowa State at Oklahoma: The Sooners would have a 
• ' 
Last year Pat Hayden propelled the Trojans to a second half upset over the Irish, but Hayden's graduation has left a void at quarterback. 
and has been less than over-Heisman Trophy candidate," says powering against them. Last week McKay. "He's big, fast, tough and they downed Oregon 17-3. has tremendous power and ac-
The Trojans do~, however, come celeration. And he's operating riding into South Bend on the back wi.t,h a v_ery young team." of one their greatest horses ever, Bell IS undou~tedly one of the tailback Ricky Bell. The 6-2, 215lb. greatest ru·nn~~s m t~e country by junior from Los Angeles has , all standards, Devme concurs. gained 1,068 in six games, Thers's just no way teams have averaging 6.0 yards per carry. He been able to limit him when he has has three 200-yard games this the ball." season. Bell is the class of the backfield 
"Ricky is an outstanding but he doesn't put the othe; 
~oiliallpicb 

tougher time playing their own redshirts. They'll be looking ahead to contests with Oklahoma St., Kansas, Missouri and Nebraska, but stillhave enough to down the Cyclones. Oklahoma by 14. Rice at Texas: Owl couch AI Conover can pull any prank he wants, but he's still going to be watching Longhorn fullback Earl Campbell fly past him all day, unles~ he sec ides to shoot him. Longhorns by 20. Navy at Pittsburgh: Pitt has tuned up for this one with grueling contests against William & Mary, Duke, Temple and Army, but still the Middies will need a fleet to halt Tony Dorsett. Panthers by 7. Kansas State at Missouri: The Tigers turned the ball over twoce in a minute last week and Colorado took advantage of it. But quarterback Steve Pisarkiewiez runs a powerful Missouri attack that should control the Wildcats, who could not handle Oklahoma last w~ek. Ti~ers bv to 
California at UCLA: UCLA scores high, but the 
Bears scored higher last Saturday, chalking up 51 
points against Oregon St. If the Bruins show any 
defense at all, then John Sciarra will lead them by the 
Bears. UCLA by 7. 
Colorado at Nebraska: Nebraska has time and again 
staved off upsets, and that is what they will probably 
do tomorrow. The Buffaloes will gibe them a run for 
their money, but the Juskers will take home the pot. 
Nebraska by 10. 
Illinois at Michigan St.: The Illini handed Purdue its 
first victory last week, and that's a distinction: It's 
hard to follow an act like that, so they .ll probably just 
lose gracefully to the Spartans. MSU by 17. 
Indiana at Michigan: If Bo tries to tell us he's 
worried about this one then he's got more gall than 
even Woody Hayes suspected. His only concern is 
whether or not the Hoosiers dieced to show up. 
Wolverines by 45. 
Ohio St. at Purdue: After winning their first game 
last week, Alex Agase's Boilermakers will get 
knocked off thier cloud, shoved out of the stadium and 
deposited in the alley behind Ross-Ade Stadium. 
Buckeyes by 50. 
Northwestern at Wisconsin: These two great 
defensive teams gave up the 125 points that Ohio St. 
and Michigan totaled last week. But if the Badgers 
can regain their ego, and offense, they should win 
their last five games. Wisconsin by 7. 
Upset of the Week: Notre Dame over Southern Cal. 
In a contest like this anything can happen. So far the 
Irish have lived by that motto, and if they can score 
some of their famed fourth quqarter touchdowns a 
little earlier, they QJay be psyched enough to beat the 
Trojans. John McKay's team hasn't played anyone 
yet, and they don't like 'South Bend. ND by 3. 

members to shame. Fullback Mosi Tatupu has a 5.5 yards per game average, and quarterback Vince Evans is a strong runner also. Evans has completed only 32 per cent of his passes, but has 124 yards on the ground. 
"Evans is a great runner in his own right," says Devine. "There's no question that he's the most gifted running-quarterback I've ever seen. With Bell, Tatupu and (Dwight> Evans in the same back­field the defense cannot afford to make a mistake." 
The Trojan receiving corps is led by flanker Shelton Diggs, who caught the winning two-point conversion in last year's Rose Bow. Mike Howell is the tight end and Randy Simmrin is the split end. The offensive line returns All­American candidate Marvin Powell at tackle and Joe Davis at weak guard. 
Despite the much-publicized 

offense, it is the defense which is 
USC's strong suit this year. It has 
beld fast when the Trojan offense 
has sputtered. 
The big man for SC is 6-4, 240 lb. 

Gary Jeter, an All-American 
candidate at tackle. Jeter, the 
Trojan line's leading tackler last 
year, is very quick, running the 40 
in 4. 7. The rest of the defensive 
line is new this year, with Tim­
Rhames, Walt Underwood and 
Larry Nunnally joining Jeter. 
At linebacker, Kevin Bruce leads 

the way, with Dave Lewis and 
Dave Logie also excellent. Bruce 
led USC in tackles last year and 
hI 
~·~·;·;·;·-·;···;~~·~·;,·~·~·~·;·~·;.•;.·.··········~~···· .················· w~ ••• ······x···'

Steve u e ·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·=--·=--·-·-·-·-···········-·-·········-·-·-····=-=--·-···········-·=-·--···=-.ot:.·.······ ·•··
Q 
-
The feeling 


It never changes: the feeling that accompanies NotreDameSouthern Cal week has something to do with fever. It descends once each year, replete with all the symptoms of a life-or-death affliction that infects players and non-players alike. When it breaks, hearts-eit er Irish or 'Trojan-break with it. Indeed, no one in either camp can avoid it. 
It starts as a dull pain in the back of the neck. In August, when discussions of Notre Dame hopes for a national football title have reached their usual proportions, the "if" perennially attached to the prospect of defeating Southern California begins to trob. The pressure builds, the heat increases as the season gets underway. The most crucial vic tries against all other rival provide only temporary relief for the headaches, queasy stomachs, and nervous tension caused by the approaching "big one." Even those who would not relate these ailments to that imminent occurrence so admit when the time is finally upon them, and the tem­perature skyrockets, the fever that wracks them is the one they've waited for all along. 
That is where we are right now. Itis time to play USC. Preparing for battle with the archest of all our arch-rivals is like preparing for no other opponent on our schedule. Actually, Southern 'cal Makes it easy for us to get ready for this game. There isn't a player on the squad who wouldn't do anything to beat the Trojans. Year after year the remarkks, reactions and overall attitude conveyed by Southern California personnel prior to the game whip our anticipation of the meeting into frenzy. Likewise, losing to them proves more maddening each season. In the lst eight years, Notre Orne has defeated Southern Cal once. That is a shocking, embarassing realization. It is one that each edition of the football team feels honor-bound to avenge. The sting of every loss carries over from one season to the next. No doubt the memory of lash year's debacle in the L.A. Coliseum weighs heavily on the minds of every team member. Add to that th collection of losses to USC in the last decade, an one finds the key to a real hunger on the part of the Irish to turn the tide. The performances of both teams prior to the collision become im­material in light of a desire on the part of each to destroy the other. Won­lost records, national rankings, and bowl bids notwithstanding, neither team's season is complete until the challenge of aa contest between the two is undertaken. This year neither team has played overwhelmingly impressive foot­ball, though the Trojans have managed to maintain a number three ranking in the national polls. Both teams have endured costly errors in all of their games. We especially have consistently handcuffed ourselves with a tendency to commit mistakes at crucial points in the games. We have limited potentially impressive performances because of this, and in one instance, cost ourselves a victory. Up until now, our offense,which can move the ball at will, and our defense, which can stop any opponent hasn't sustained these charac­teristics long enough t cooperate with each other and play the kind of football we are capable of playing. All of this is behind us, however. Memories and mistakes fade equally fast when it comes down to playiing Southern California. We have worked hard this week to improve every aspect of our game. Every member of this year's team knows what lies in store this Saturday and what it will take to win. For us, exigency has a way of limiting carelessness. In our last two games, when the odds against us seemed hopeless, everything began to click, for us. Everything must click Saturday as well. For the time being, however, let ths Trojans consider us lightly. Hopefully they will anticipate a bumbling Irish team. If they expect to deal with a massive, immobile machine, like the ancient Trojans did whE7n they brought the great wooden horse within their walls, they will discover when they kknock on our wood this' Saturday we are a horse of a vastly differently color. 
Lewis leads this year. The Trojans have lost outside backer Mario Celotto though, due to a leg injury. Rod Martin replaces him. 
In the secondary, cornerback 
Ted Roberson is also out with a leg 
injury, but Danhy Reece, Clint 
Strozier, and Doug Hogan make up 
a solid defensive backfield. 
"Our defense has been very good," says McKay, "But it's much weaker now with the loss of Cellotto and Roberson. The out­side linebackers in particular are a key part of our defense, and any time you've got good spedd out there. it makes it hard for anybody I o get outside." 
The Irish meanwhile, are likely to have several starters that were doubtful at the beginning of the week. Fullback Jerome Heavens figures to be ready despite a knee injury, and Joe Montana, Steve Orsisi and Al Wujciak should be sufficiently recovered from hip pointers. 
Defensively, linebacker Doug Becker should start after missing the last two games with an ankle injury. Ross Browner, who did not start last week but saw extensive action, will also be in the starting lineup. Randy Harrison will be ready at free safety, with fresh­man Joe Restic backing him up. Restic is also slated to handle the punting duties, having set a Notre Dame single-game record last week with an average of 51.6 yards per punt. 
Toniorrow's game will be nationally televised by ABC. 




