
OD The Inside 
Presidential search 
I I I 
page 3 Response to hunger 
I I I 
page 6 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
yo!. IX, No. 88 Tuesday, Februar_r. 25, 1f75 

Announcement made resterday 
Duggan is appointed new SMC president 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 
Dr. John M. Duggan, vice-president for student affairs at Vassar College, will succeed Acting President Dr. William A. Hickey to become the next president of St. Mary's College. 
Sr. Kathleen Anne Nelligan, chairman of the Corporate Board of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, announced at the all-school convocation yesterday that the ap­pointment will become effective July 1, 1975. Hickey will return to his position as vice-president for academic affairs. 
''After a number of months of searching, we have found someone who we feel can lead St. Mary's on the path that it started over 125 years ago, and into a future that is even brighter," stated Nelligan. 
Duggan, who with his wife and two sons flew to St. Mary's to be present at the convocation, said to the near-capacity audience in O'Laughlin Auditorium, "As St. Mary's president, I intend to serve you all by providing those qualities essential to creative educational leaders: the ability to maintain a balance between innovation and stability, a balance between a desireable addition to programs and buildings and available funds, a balance among the equally legitimate, and sometimes competing, interests of various members of the community, and in ad­dition, acceptability and communication, all with. I hope, a sense of excitement and humor." 
Eager to Join 
He commented that as he went through 
the selection process, his interest and 
enthusiasm for St. Mary's continued to 
grow. and that he and his family were 
"eager to join you <St. Mary's) in the 
enterprise you represent." 
"I would be foolhardy, though, not to 
acknowledge that these are difficult times 
for colleges and universities, particularly 
private institutions. And yet, in assessing 
the strengths of St. Mary's against the 
problems of private higher education, I am 
very optimistic," Duggan said. 

''At a time when many other colleges are on the verge of closing, facing huge deficits. weakened by dissension, faced with an imbalance of tenured over non­tenured faculty, operating in obsolete facilities or crime-ridden surroundings, increasing drops in applications and un­filled spaces, St. Mary's enjoys a strong position," the new president observed. 
However, he noted, to maintain and improve that strong position SMC must rely on the continued goodwill and generosity of all its constituencies. 
Among these, Duggan said, are : "the considerable contribution of services of the Sisters of the Holy Cross; support, both in spirit and dollars, of alumnae; con­tinuing willingness of parents to pay the fuition required to sustain and improve the quality of education , and the willingness of students to strive for that quality; continued co-operation with the University of Notre Dame in those areas of mutual advantage; the various bridges and programs with the South Bend com­munity; and in particular and especially, the men and women teachers who work here." 
Clear Identity 
The new president contended that SMC's "clear identity" is a "tremendous asset", giving it an advantage over many other colleges. 
While other .schools are currently going through an identity crisis "about what they are or who they're for, St. Mary's, has declared itself a college with a strong Catholic heritage and firm commitment to that religious tradition, and that it has decided to remain a woman's college in a period when most other woman's colleges are undertaking at least an annual review of that status. 
Duggan continued, noting that St. Mary's "wishes to remain small enough to provide a warm, supportive, Christian community with easy access to any in­dividual. It has proclaimed itself to be a liberal arts college which stresses analytical and creative programs, and moral and aesthetic values, while responding to the needs ofr a necessary 

element of vocational preparation, but 
avoiding narrow specialism." 
"It is my intention to do everything I can 
for students, faculty, staff, and ad­. ministration to facilitate these goals and make a strong St. Mary's even stronger, 
he concluded. 
Historical review of search 
Prior to the announcement of Duggan's appointment, Nelligan detailed the work of the Search Committee, the Board of Regents, and the Corporate Board of the Sisters of the Holy Cross in the selection of the new president. 
The Search Committee, was founded in 
the spring of 1974 and was composed of 
members of the Board of Regents, ad­
ministration, faculty, alumnae and 
students. By the December meeting of the 
Board of Regents, this committee had 
selected five presidential candidates for 
presentation to the Board, the Corporate 
Board Chairman said. 
"After the Board of Regents interviewed 
these candidates and after having heard 
the evaluations of these men by the 
members of thee Search Committee, each 
Board member recommended those 
whom he felt were the most viable can­
didates. Those most highly recommended 
were then interviewed further by the 
Corporate members of St. Mary's 
College," she stated. These members, she 
continued, belong to the General Council of 
the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
Before interviewing each of those 
candidates, the Corporation Board 
members received all the information and 
evaluations which the Search Committee 
had collected. 
The Corporate Board then interviewed 
the three final candic':~tes in Boston. 
"After meeting these men, there was 
unanimous and instanteaneous agreement 
that we had found someone who could 
bring to St. Mary's what we wanted for 
our purposes at this time," said Nelligan. 
"We next interviewed some of the people 
with whom the candidate associated: 
those for whom he worked, those with whom he worked, and those who worked for him. He received notonly an 'A', but 'A+' on all scores. And so, we found that he <Duggan) was no longer a candidate, but a president elect," she stated. 
A Thanks to Dr. Hickey 
Nelligan also paid tribute to Acting President Dr. William Hickey. "He has given full measure and overflowing to St. Mary's since he came here. His gifts have been more overflowing during the time that he has been acting president, and these last two weeks have brought to him many. many things to be done in preparation for today and for the Board of Hegents meeting on Friday in an attempt to keep this announcement a secret sur­prise," she explained. 
In addition, the chairman thanked the members of the Search Committee, particularly those on campus, Dr. Eugene Campanale, Sr. Francesca Kennedy, Sr. Elena Malits, and Tess Lehman. 
Prt>ss C'onfet't'nce Comments 
At a press conference following the convocation, Duggan stated that he doesn't foresee any "major problems in the near future for St. Mary's." 
"As I said earlier, at a timewhenmany colleges are running at huge deficits, St. Mary's has a balancen budget. At 'I time 

whenmany collt>ges &re conc•!rened about the number of adl"lissions applications an unfilled beds, St. Mary's is in a very strong position,'' he said. 
The president noted that he would like to see a larger endowment, as this "gives the kind of flexibility to innovate," and an increased scholarship funds. 
"I also understand that a library and a gym are definite needs that have been recognized by all members of the com­munity. The buildings needs are in a sense problems; they are needs to be met," Duggan commented. 
He stated that "the faculty is an ex· cellent one, as I judge it. It has not yet had 

to  come  to  the point in the balance  o  
tenured  versus  non-tenured  facult~'  
(continued on page 21  

Endowed Professorship program begun 
by Martha Fanning . . . . . . 
Staff Reporter ~r.; The ~rank M . .t:'reimann Chair ·Hmskmg Chair m Theology; the 
In recent years, Notre Dame has m Electncal Engmeering, .Prof. Kenan Chair in Sociology and been able to instigate an Endowed a·b . I . hL James L. M.ass~y; The Michael P. Anthropology; The Howard J. Professorship program in various . ' .· .li.l!rver . n Sift..":.:.·..~. Gra~e Chair Ill the Medieval Kenna Chair in Mathematics; The 
departments of the university. ~ --Institute, Prof. Jeffre~ B.. Russel!; Jo~n Cardinal O'Hara Chair in 
Frederick Crosson, Dean of the and the ~harles L. Hmskmg Chatr ~h1los~phy; The C.R. Smith Chair College of Arts& Letters, described Burtchaell. judgment. If one views the per-1~ Chemistry, Prof. Anthony M. m Busmess Administration; The the program as ''another sign of Another advantage of the en-sonal acknowledgement and 1rozz?lo. . . Fred B. Snite. Jr. Chair in Oriental our advancing." dowed chairs was also pointed out financial support of one's Chairs not yet appomted m-Theology; The Andrew V. Tacke: 
Endowed professorships are by Burtchaell. "They relieve the comrades as a very high priority, dude: The Packey J. Dee Chair in Chair in History; The Thomas J formed through funds donated to operating budget of the escalating then one tends almost always to Government and Internaional White Chair in Law; and tl.e the university. These funds are set compensation burden of the most want to see those professorial Studtes· hhs The William White Chair in English aside and form a "chair" named highly paid faculty. This allows the appointments to go to insiders," after the individual who con-funds no longer needed for those Burtchaell noted. tributed the money. positions to be used to support the "If one views the opportunity to 
The creation of the chairs in positions at lower ranks at at rate strengthen the senior, scholarly different departments of Notre of higher annual increase than component of a department faculty Dame results in several ad-hitherto without' these en-for the benefit of the students as a vantages. Bernard Waldman, dowments. Thus there is a positive good thing and has this as a high Dean of the College of Science, effect at all ranks, senior and priority, then onewouldoften favor stated. "the chairs offer higher junior," he conclud¢d. using the position to attract a new salaries and enable the university One short-termed disadvantage outsider. If one thinks that both are to bring in people who are out-of the endowed professorships was high priorities, as I hope most of us standing in their own areas." mentioned by Cros~on. do, then one is' pulled in several 
Crosson noted, " The chairs "The appointment of someone at directions at once," he observed. provide financial resources to that level results in the locking up "In any case, it seems clear that bring in scholars at a senior level of tenure positions available. Since we shall not survive financially nor who can contribute to the depart-the number of tenured positions is academically without putting a ment." finite, it becomes more difficult for very considerable portion of our 
In a Notre Dame report a young untenured faculty." faculty appointments on the firm published in January, 1975, Fr. ''The usurping of the younger base of endowment," Burtchaell James T. Burtchaell, provost of faculty causes some sensitivity," said. the university, stated, "The he noted. Burtchaell also remarked that it existence of endowed chairs does Furuhashi commented, "Some is hoped that eventually all make it possible, more often than people wonder why we're spending' professorial positions will be before, to have the option of a so much money on one person supported by endowed funds. junior or senior asppointment." when other salaries aren't There are currently sixteen 
Previously if a vacancy oc-enough." chairs at the university either 
curred, the only option open was to In the report, Burtchaell stated already endowed or to be endowed 
appoint scholars who were at the that negative feelings of the at $800,000. Salaries of the 
beginning of their careers. "It was faculty, due to the appointment of professors are paid with the in­
difficult for a department to outsiders to chairs, could be terest off the principal chairs. 
summon up a salary that would be aroused. Among the endowed chairs 
competitive for a person who was "I think that these are un-already appointed are: The 
SETTING AN example for coeducation at Notre Dame, Army 
ROTC has coed drill units. One such unit was caught by the
already very well established at a derstandable feelings, yet perhaps George and Winifred Clark Chair 
camera's eye !Photo by John .).
very good institution," noted not reflecting enough of the fullest in Biology, Prof. George B. Craig, 

the observer Tu~sday, February 25, 1975 

warld briefs 
PENNS GROVE, N.J. <UPIJ · A Roman Catholic priest was killed and a teacher wounded Monday by a man with a shotgun who burst into a second-grade parochial school classroom here. 
The Rev. Thomas J. Quinlan, 38, principal of St. James J<:lementary School, was fatally shot in the head after he apparently went to investigate some noise in a class taught by Kathleen Flynn, 25, of Barrington, N.J. 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -Ralph Nader researchers said Monday proposed government rules allowing contaminants in peanut products and evaporated milk pose serious health hazards. 
The rules, announced last December by the Food and Drug Administration, govern the lead content of evaporated milk and the amount of a potentially cancer-causeing mold in peanut butter and other peanut products. 
ADJ)IS ABABA <UPil -The United States has indicated it will grant I<:thiopia 's request for an emergency supply of $25 million worth of ammunition to continue the war against Eritrean rebels, govenmPnt sources said Monday. 
I<:ritrei province itself was reported quiet during the day after 
spveral hours of artillery strikes and bombing raids near the 
provincial capital of Asmara Sunday. 

an campus l:aday 
3:30pm. computer course, "pl-1", 113 comp. cen. 
4:30pm. seminar, "facts and speculations about the biochemical mechanisms of ovarian development in mosquitoes," by dr. m. fuchs, gal. life aud. 
4:15pm . meeting, rugby club, football film rm. ace 
7:15pm . mass, charismatic mass, holy cross hall chapel 
7:30 pm . lecture, "lntro to transcendental meditation," 249 madeleva 
7:30-9:30 pm . dance, faculty Instruction with fran demarco, $2, Iafortune ballroom 
8& 10 pm. film, "the last hurrah," $1, eng. aud. 
8:10pm. basketball. nd vs. fordham u., ace 
10-12 pm . smc coffeehouse, barbara brewer slpple 

Junior Parents Weekend includes workshop series 
Junior Parents Weekend <Feb. Parents Weekend would not be like 
28 -March 2) will offer a series of the "traditional open houses" that collegiate workshops with have been held in the past.representatives from all un­
"With the present condition ofdergraduate colleges explaining the economy, we believe that the
their respective academic workshops will have a very
programs on Saturday morning practical purpose," Boyle cQm·(March 1>, according to Terry men ted. 
Bowen, organizer of the workshop series. All sessions are scheduled to 
"We hope to acquaint the begin at 10 a.m. on Saturday. parents with the major that their Coffee and donuts will also be son or daughter has been working served at each session. in," Bowen stated. "Then we hope Also included on the weekend to examine the various alter­agenda will be a special mass natives for Notre Dame grads, celebrated by University President either in post-graduate studies or Fr. Theodore Hesburgh Saturday in the job market," he added. at 6:30 p.m. in Sacred Heart 
Weekend Chairman Pat Boyle Cathedral. The Notre Dame Glee emphasized that this year's Junior Club will perform at the service. 


According to president 

No major problems foreseen 
(continued /rom page 1) 
where there are a lot of painful decisions that have to be made, and perhaps we can figure out ways of avoiding those kinds of problems." 
Duggan said that he is op · timistic to the point where he does not see major problems. "I'm here because St. Mary's is not riddled with problems. It's a good, strong place to come and make stronger," 
SLC hears three progress reports 
The Student Life Council met for less than fifteen minutes yesterday afternoon and heard progress reports from three SLC com­mittees. 
SBP Pat McLaughlin, chairman of the SLC Rules Committee, reported that his committee is working on recommendations for a disciplinary system which would prove less confusing to the students. McLaughlin stated that the recommendations would be completed by March 10, the next SLC meeting. 
Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant to the provost and member of the SLC Planning and Policy Com­mittee, announced that her committee will submit a report in May regarding University parietals policies. The report, which will be forwarded to the Board of Trustees, will be based on a student poll conducted last spring, interviews with hall rectors and written correspondence with SLC members who first settled the parietals issue. 
Denis Sullivan, of the Future of the SLC Committee, noted that his committee was not yet ready to report its findings. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from ·The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

International Harvester 
has unmatched opportunities 


lor people majoring in: 
Accounting Agricultural Engineering Business Administration Business Management Civil Engineering Computer Science Economics Electrical Engineering Engineering Technology Finance Industrial Engineering Marketing Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Metallurgy Metallurgical Engineering 
March 5 is your chance to take a look at them. 
Make an appointment at the Placement Office to see the International Harvester College Relations Representative. He'll be here to tell you what kind of people we're looking for, how we work and more about the opportunities we have to offer. In the meantime, stop by the Placement Office and 
• 
pick up a copy of our new Ill recruitment brochure. INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER 
he explained. 
Concerning his role as president of St. Mary's, Duggan noted that the president stands in the center of a number of conflicting forces, and the extent to which a single person can exert his influence on 
"a  complicated,  seamless  in·  
stitution  such  as  a  college  is  
questionable."  

Earlier. at the convocation, in discussing his position, the president referred to author John Coleman's comments in The Blue CollaI' J ournaI: 
"He <a college president> is by definition almost always wrong. If he spends much time meeting with students, he is neglecting the faculty; if he spends much time with the faculty, he is being dicated to by them. 
"If he is off-campus, he should be back minding the school; if he's 
Graduate Student Union General Meeting 12 -noon Feb. 27th Library Aud. 
NOW CASEY JONES & THE 
AND 
LISTEN 


~Sizu/a ~ 
. NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS 
on U.S. 31 bttween llies. So. Bend-frM Parkin&-68~350 

on campus, he should be out raising money. If he pushes his pet educational thoughts, he's trying to run the show; if he doesn't, he isn't interested enough in education. 
"If he changes his mind on an issue, he's wishy-washy; if he doesn't. he's pigheaded. If his name isn't in the paper, he's letting the school down; if it is, he's a publicity hound. 
"If he smiles a lot, he's naive of the problems of the school; if he frowns, he's given up too soon. He's all very interesting an not hard to take. once he gets over wanting to be right, and settles instead for doing the best he can," states Coleman. 
"I look forward to doing the best I can at this. the beginning of what I hope will be a long, and happy and productive association." 

... ·' 

Search for SMC president ends 
by Sherry Antonini 
Staff Reporter 

The selection of Dr. John Duggan as the next President of Saint Mary's College climaxed nearly a year of research and evaluations, by the Presidential Search Committee. 
Following the resignation of Dr. Edward Henry last March 8, the Faculty Assembly passed a resolution directing the Board of Regents to form a nine-member Search Committee. 
Four of the members, Sr. Leonella Moe, Dr. Glenn Olsen, Mary Rita Hellmuth, and Fr. John Whalen (appointed chairman), were also members of the Board of Regents while four other members were appointed from other voting bodies of the college. Both Sr. Elena Malits and Dr. Eugene Campanale were elected by the Faculty Assembly. Sr. Francesca Kennedy, Acting Vice-President for Academic Affairs, was chosen by the administration and Tess Lehman acted as Student Representative. The ninth member was Kay Boyle, Assistant Alumnae President. 
The search for presidential candidates was extensive and ran through many channels, Sr. Elena noted. A request for interested persons was placed in the <'h•-oniclt> of Higher Education. The President of CatholicColleges' was notified and asked for recommendations.other sources were faculty, alumnae, andfriends of the college. 
During the spring and early summer of last year, the Search Committee worked with a professional agency, Quaintance Associates, Inc., to aid them in locating candidates. However, this arrangement had terminated by the end of the summer. Although Quaintance representatives traveled to other campuses looking for prospective candidates, the committee felt it was more in­formed as to what type of president SMC was looking for and proceeded to do the work on its own. 
The Committee met several times throughout the following months. Since different members were situated in Utah, Washington, D.C., Pittsburgh, and Springfield, Ohio, they generally met at O'Hare International Tower, a place convenient to all, Sr. Elena reported. 
However, some of the members 
An Tostal plans near end 
by Jeff Arndt Staff Reporter Plans are being finalized for the 1975 An Tostal to be held April 17­
19. Most of the popular events from previous years, including the Irish Wake, will be repeated along with a few innovations. 
Chairman Tom Porter con­firmed that the Irish Wake will be held, but the location for the party is still undecided. "We have looked into sites both off-campus and in Michigan," Porter disclosed. 
"We anticipate no legal problems, as we will run the Wake according to whatever legal conditions are present at the time," he continued. 
Porter also hopes that the concert will be moved to Friday night instead of Saturday. "Then the Wake could be an all night party instead of just after the concert," he explained. 
One of the more popular events, the Bookstore basketball tour­nament will be headed again by Commissioner Vince Meconi. Mud Volleyball may be expanded into men's and women's leagues. Details for entering in both events will be released later. 
Assistant Chairman Bob Quakenbush stated that the An Tostal committee is searching for a suitable prize for the winner of the Jim E. Brogan award. The award, first awarded to Lyons Hall for entering an elephant in the tug­of-war, is presented to the hall or organization that makes the most outstanding contribution to the festivities. 
Last year's award went to Grace Hall for their fireworks display. "We hope to include fireworks again this year," Quakenbush observed. 
Among other possible in­novations is the return of Find­Your-Mate of the Group Grope. It is also rumored that Tom Porter will walk a tight-rope that spans between his beloved Grace Hall and the Memorial Library building at noon on Gentle Thursday, Quakenbush said. 
"We want to get something that would involve the hall rectors anc hall presidents," Quakenbush continued. The more aggressive or aggravated may vent their anger in the Piano Smash," he said. 
"Enthusiasm this year has been tremendous," observed Quakenbush, "and we are very pleased with the response from the students from St. Mary's." 
ND-SMC THEATRE 
Robinson Jeffers 

MEDEA 
Wed. & Thurs. February 26 & 27 
8:00 P.M. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium $1.50 Stud-Fac-Staff Phone: 284-4176 

Meetings for the planning Pat McLaughlin, Mary Siegel, committees of An Tostal have been Vinnie Moschella, and Herb held Wednesdays in the La Fortune Thiele. Ballroom. Day Chairmen for The Mobilization Committee Gentle Thursday are Debbie consists of Ted Ursu and Don Opal. Schoeberlin, Judy Kula, and Kevin Marney Cueroni, Betsy Kall, Mary Maguire. Ann Kennedy and Bob Quakenbush 
Mike Henke, Mary Kay Kelly will organize the Irish Wake. and Keefe Montgomery will be in Anyone with questions or ideas were situated on campus and they basically did the "office work." By . late summer sub-committees of the Search Committee were traveling to different parts of the country in search of more prospective candidates. 

In early autumn, Fr. Whalen, 
committee chairman, resigned as both chairman and member of the committee. He was succeedde by Dr. Glenn Olsen as chairman. 
Also in early autumn, two men were brought to the St. Mary's campus to meet with faculty, 
(continued on page 7) 

Date lor.public,hearing set on drinking age proposal 
Notre Dame SBP Pat McLaughlin noted, it has to be sent out of the 
announced yesterday that the committee. 
proposed bill which would lower The bill would amend the 
the legal drinking age in Indiana to alcoholic beverage laws by 
18 has cleared another hurdle in changing the definition of 
the General Assembly. "minor" to" a person less than 18 
The House Public Policy years of age." The bill, once 
Committee has granted the bill a passed into law, would call for the 
public hearing, tentatively act to take effect July 1, 1975. 
scheduled for Thursday, Feb. 27 at McLaughlin, who will be one of 
10 a.m. in the Indianapolis four student leaders to testify in 
Statehouse. favor of the bill at the hearing, 
McLaughlin stated that the attributed the bill's progress to 
committee chairman, Chester student support. "Before we 
Dobis from Lake County, finally · started writing letters, the bill 
consented to a hearing. For the bill wasn't even going to get a 
to remain alive, McLaughlin hearing," he said. 
------~--------------, 

THE NOTRE DAME: STUDENT UNION PROUDLY PRESENTS 


FREEPORT 
In The Bahamas 

For s249 

8 days I 7 nights March 21 -28 
Includes 
* 
Round Trip Air Transportation on a DC-9 Leaving from South Bend

* 
Accomodations

* 
In Flight Service

* 
U.S. Departure Tax 



Enjoy Swimming, Golf Tennis, or 
Anything You Want In the Bahamas 
$50 DEPOSIT WITH SIGN-UP 
Sign Up At S.U. Ticket Office 
OPEN TO ALL MEMBERS OF 
N.D. COMMUNITY 


ARE YOU SICK AND TIRED OF HAVING NOTRE DAME TREAT YOU LIKE A KID? DO YOU HAVE A COMPLAINT, CRITICISM, 



IDEA, COMPLIMENT, OR OPINION ABOUT THE WAY THINGS ARE DONE? 
BE AT LAFORTUNE BALLROOM WEDNESDAY NIGHT, 6:30 IF YOU DON'T SPEAK UP NOW, YOU MIGHT NOT GET THE CHANCE TO DO IT LATER! ! 

naturally, this is NOT the case. On . administration's one day off beside our eminent provost for a brilliant by many Orthodox and Non-
Sound-Off ·campus students pay . a high the actual holiday itself. Perhaps bit of strategy. / Chalcedonian Eastern Churches, $25 a year, (NO single semester next year we will beware if they We have only ourselves to blame our reversion to it would constitute rates) while off-campus students speak of cutting down on the for not realizing that Father a significant ecumenical gesture to are allowed to dish out $10 for lot "long" Christmas vacation: I agreed so gracefully to the our Oriental Christian siblings.
On Security 

assignments. Once this money has personally would appreciate more Academic Council's decision Restoration of the Julian ec­been "donated", students must than one day off between because Plan B was already in the clesiastical calendar cannot be llear Editor: keep their checkbooks on tap for semesters. works. In fact we now discover accomplished unilaterally by An open letter to Arthur Pears what has to be the biggest rip-off of If things stand as they are, many that he cleverly laid its foundations Notre Dame alone. May I suggest and Notre Dame Security: all. Of course, I am referring to students will go to school three and at that very meeting by proposing that all of the institutions and in­
Exactly what criteria do you the endless number of parking one-half months next fall without a one-day break in comparison to cividuals who represent and ar­require for a student to drive a car "felonies" from the familiar break, for with tuition going up which four days is undeniably ticulate campus government--the on campus? Isn't Security's "parking in the WRONG lot" to the $200-300 many will not be able to "extended." SLC, the HPC, the Faculty Senate, purpose to pt·otect the students? Is even more ridiculous "exceeding afford plane fare home. With a With any luck the student body, the Obst•t·vt'r's editorial staff, the it so unreasonable to want to drop the 15-minute on-campus time nine day break, those who live at after an entire semester with only campus cops, the ladies who two students off at their dorms, limit" <both decided no-no's). great distances could travel far two days off, will be too tired to prepare the Huddle's cuisine, both of whom are on crutches, one By writing this, I am NOT saying more cheaply by car and still not care what kind of calender it gets; Darby O'Gill's friends, and the 692 with a cast? Is it so unreasonable that we should abolish our have to turn around the day after and at the very least the Provost is candidates for the Student Body to want to drop off these aforesaid illustrious Security force, despite they get home and start the long assured that though he can't get Presidency, among others-all get students when it is triply its chronic shortcomings. It seems drive back to school. Even Father what he wants no one else will get together and draft a petition to the dangerous at night and when the that Security is needed to protect Burtchaell agrees that a student's what they want either. Trustees? The petition should sidewalks are icy? Of course, they on-campus students from theft and work suffers because of fatigue So take this little manuever with request the Trustees to direct the must be careful not to let just any similar forms of personal unless he has a week off during the a grin: it just may turn out that he Administration to address a letter car on campus. The two pairs of "assault" but somehow, a com­semester. Sixty-eight days of class has out-maneuvered himself this to the Pope, asking the Pope to crutches sticking up in the car promise MUST be reached. with a week off would result in time and in any case it isn't every convene an Ecumenical Council to could have been a trick to get a car Obviously, a completely practically the same amount of University that has so worthy a decide the calendar issue. <The on campus. Heaven forbid that a unregulated campus (with regards learning as seventy-one days with student of such diplomats as Church's authority to define such car might get on campus to drop to student vehicles) would lead to only an extended weekend of rest. Talleyrand (who pointed out that issues was established around 180 some students off that didn't have bumper-to-bumper traffic and Student action must start now. "language is given to men to ob-A. D., when Pope Victor I man­broken or sprained ankles! How mass chaos in general. But here, The administration will gladly scure their thoughts"), dated adoption of the Roman date secure are two students that could as always, moderation seems to be forget the ealendar unless con­Machiavelli and Richelieu. for Easter throughout the Church. have slipped on the ice and added the solution. tinual and intense pressure is The only question is whether There is, in other words, precedent to their already painful injuries? Although I am not an authority applied. The HPC, SLC, and such marvelous Machiavellism is for such an initiative.) 
We are not suggesting that on such matters by any stretch of various other organizations and entirely suitable in an ad­Such a decision would resolve all Security should let anyone on the imagination, I would suggest leaders <both student and faculty) ministrator of a "Christian our problems, and leave us with campus. But to not even check the an extension of time limits for on­must quickly and strongly state community." nothing important to argue about story, not even ask for a driver's campus driving especially at night their opposition to the ealendar and Cordially, license, to flatly refuse entrance, when most on-campus parking lots their regret that they were misled Patrick Hanifin Bob KerbyAND THEN, to blatantly watch as are frighteningly vacant. Also, the throughout the calendar con­two people hobbled from the circle policing of the student lots (with troversy. In order to retain any 
PS: If, in a fit of whimsy, youon crutches, seems to us to be the the intent to ticket) should be respect from the students, the decide to print this, may I request height of irresponsibility and total drastically reduced. Other similar advisory capacity of these councils Calendar that it be proofread carefullylack of concern for the students reductions could result in the must be equally respected by the before going to press? For once-­whom they are supposed to be saving of valuable time and money administration. If this fails, just once--I'd like to see a letterprotecting. in the operation(s) of the 86-man student action must carry the day. 

Solution printed without 
a single<and woman) force. One of the paramount lessons of typographical error.

Patty Culler In short, something MUST be the rice and tea dinners was the 
Terri Blaha done to make our Security force power of public demonstrative acts Dear Editor: 
Betsy Short more effective and less to affect the thinking and decisions My wife has come up with the 
harassment-oriented. · of others. Mass student action, in perfect solution to all our calendar Thanks 
some form initiated by our ap­woes. Furthermore, her solution 
Bradley Marcotte propriate leaders, could carry should please both those who wish
I certainly am not the type of Dear Editor:
such power again. Let's decide to reassert the Catholic character 
person who delights in writing I and all who were present at the
that the administration has acted of the University, and those who
caustic soliloquies for the Ob­Rise Up wish the University were more dinner table would like to express
in its covert and insensitive

st•t'\'t•r and newspapers in general. our warmest gratitude, and give
manner for the last time. The liberal in its ecumenical gestures
In fact, despite my second our loudest applause to Jim
gauntlet has been thrown down; to persons of other faiths.
semester Senior status, this will be Johnston, Craig Mortell, The Peter
this time, let's pick it up.

my first <and hopefully ONLY) What my wife proposes is the Crotty Defense League, Mike
John Meuleman

pffort ever. Dear Editor: revocation of the Gregorian ec­Hastings, and especially to A Pure 
The motivational factor which Students of Notre Dame: clesiastical calendar, and the Corbyette for making Monday's 
"inspired" this letter stems from reinstitution of the older and more P.O. Box Q. one of the most en­the deplorable treatment rendered I've been waiting two days now traditional Julian ecclesiastical tertaining collections of wisdom (to) students by the Notre Dame for the students to rise up in fury calendar. If the date of Christmas ever. One of these letters in a security force. Needless to say, over the deliberate deception that were computed according to the single issue would have made the my patience has worn exceedingly was practiced upon them in the Dear Editor: Julian ecclesiastical calendar, feature, but all of them together at thin. Unfortunately, I am not alone ealendar for next year. To my Christmas would fall on January one time was just too much. We all with respect to the overwhelming disappointment I see the same All right, we've been had--and 7th of the civil calendar, thus recited the letters with the proper sense of abomination that results pattern repeating itself that has had royally. But at least we've adding thirteen days to the period dramatic interpretation, and a from this unnecessary belit­been witnessed several times in been had by an expert. Whatever between Labor Day and Christ­good time was had by all. tlement. I have tolerated it for the past two years: outrage at a you may think of the calendar mas. These thirteen extra days Daniel J. Dailyalmost four years and I can assert decision, followed by a strong with confidence that almost every resolution to change the policy, Notre Dame student who owns followed by silence from the ad­ANY sort of motor vehicle ministration, concluding in student inevitably feels much the same acceptance of unwanted policy. It way 1 is time for this passive acceptance 
All of this leads me to ask: What of the dictation of our own futures is the role of "our security force? to stop. Is it a necessity? Just Pxactlywhat When the Academic Council arc we, the school "taxpayers" recommended a post-Labor Day,paying for? "long" Thanksgiving-break 
It seems that we have here at ealendar, it was hailed as a first: Notre Dame a force that protects students working through the us from ourselves?!?!?!? If channels, discussing issues you've ever tried to drive a vehicle rationally and thoroughly, and on campus for any reason achieving the enactment of their <legitimate or otherwise), you are wishes on an issue. Father Burt­aware of the interrogative process chaell said he was happy to go that I am referring to. They along with the students' wishes specialize in pettiness and enforce now that they had been thoroughly more insignificant and ludicrous researched and documented. I am rules and regulations than one frankly dumbfounded at the gall of 
could count. this man: he must have known 
The NO Security division handily when he made this statement that "branches off" into the Traffic the students' interpretation of a Violations Bureau, which seems to "long" Thanksgiving break as nine be a racket in itself. One would days off did not coincide with the think that $3500-plus a year would administration's meaning of this t>ntitle a student to some sort of term. Clearly, "long" to an out-
Real Expert 




Dpinian
Speak Out 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii__.__.._keil:h ramsey 
There comes a time for all people to speak, to be heard ... to stand up and be counted. To decide for themselves to deem what they believe to be right or wrong. 
This is the country of my birth, and my generation has been known as the silent generation. The time for silence is over. 
I have been watching the people of my country divide themselves, I have watched the young people drop'()ut from society because of what they have seen...l have seen divergent generations find different ways of escaping reality ... but escaping or ignoring does not alter truth. 
The truth is obvious ... we are in critical economic trouble ...whether it is a depression or a recession depends only on how it affects the individuaLllnemployment is at an all time high for recent times, and jobs are in jeopardy ... Crime is a by-product of the moral decline which seems to exist on all levels of our society. Inflation is rampant and runaway ... Our country is in trouble ... serious trouble. 
Our government has awarded a $77 million contract to a private corporation of "executive mercenaries" in Los Angeles to teach Saudi Arabians to become in­struments of war, whose obvious target is Israel. This in turn will create thousands of jobs ... jobs for Americans. 
Over $300 million in contracts to supply 
weapons and vehicles of war has been 
arranged between U.S. and Saudi Arabia. 
What is the truth?..... Does Israel 
have the oil that we need? No. Could it be 
that we are taking the path of least 
resistance to attain the precious product of 
the Earth? ... Saudi Arabia wants the land 
now held by Israel. ..And we want the 
oil...Could it be that we have sold out our 
former friends? ... Are we willing to teach 
others to kill our former allies? ... The men, 
women ... the little children of Israel, so we 
can maintain a higher standard of 
living?... 
If you say that there is nothing you can do about it, then you have decided to approve the actions by apathy, for no decision, is a decision in itself ... 
I cannot tell you what is right or wrong ... that is something that you must decide for yourself ... and live with your decisions. 
I can only ask you to search deep into your hearts and souls for what you believe to be right. 
Ask yourselves ... would whatever God you believe in approve of your silence if you felt that you were a part of something wrong? 
For some of you self-preservation is the strongest point in any decision you can make ... that is your choice .. .for you must be your own judge ... you and your values ... your convictions. 
But I am sure that most of you will wonder about what you are as individuals ... 
If you feel that it is our moral right to do as we are doing ... to even be involved ... If you feel that we are not responsible for what our government approves ... Then you have chosen your way ...it is not mine. 
Churchill called World War II England's darkest hours, and now America is facing her darkest hours. We as Americans must light up these darkest hours with honor ... with truth. It cannot be done with silence,...it must be an active shout,.. a shout heard to the highest offices .. .itmust be heard in the streets, ... but mostly ... mostly it must be heard in our hearts. 
If you believe in God then pray ... pray that your decision is right. Both for you and your country ... Pray that the God of your choice will bless America. A great nation must be a nation of integrity and honor ... and the peoples of a great nation must be the con­science of its Executive Orders. 
If YOUR conscience cries out, ... then let that cry be heard. Form groups ... write letters ... be heard. 

manl:ezuma!s reven'=le 


Angel 
•

ray ram1rez 
In those days an angel of the Lord visited Father Sorin and spoke unto him thus: "Awake Sorin. I've come to ease your worried mind and tell you of the future of Notre Dame du Lac." Sorin awoke quite startled, but regained his composure quickly when he saw that it was' only another angel. He said to the angel, "Look, I appreciate the help you guys gave us in setting up the buildings, screening ad­miSSion forms and all, but why is one of you always popping into my room with the latest stock report or the time and tem­perature?" "Sorin", said the angel tersely, "do you want to hear what's going to happen or not?" "Oh, very well. Let's hear it." "There will come a rtay". the angel declared, "when everyone on this campus, be they French, Mexican or Hindustani, shall be called "Irish", and they will proudly proclaim it in chants and lyric." "Give me a break", said Sorin casting his eyes heavenwards. The angel continued: "And I see a day when. the name of this institution shall be known and respected across the country and indeed around the world." "Marvelous", said Father Sorin. "This island of learning in the Indiana wilderness shall finally be recognized as a great academic institution." "Well", said the angel apologetically, "not quite. You see, Father, it shall be respected somewhat for its worth as a place of learning, but most of its fame shall arise from its prowess on the field of athletic competition, par­ticularly in football. I further see three men who will make Notre Dame a household word. One is a Swede, the second is Irish, and the third is Armenian. Because of these 
DOONESBURY 
three, your school, Father Sorin, shall become synonymous with college football." 
"That is all fine and well", said the good Father "but I have some questions. First of all, what is football?" The angel thought for a while then said, "To be perfectly honest Sorin, it would take too long to explain; it's sort of a sport, but more like a religion." "That is good", said Father Sorin. "We 
1 strive to instill a love for the religious here. 
· And I have another question, angel. What's an Armenian?" "Heaven only knows", said the angel, shamelessly. "But let me con­tinue. In basketball your school shall also excel. It will see its greatest moments under the leadership of the son of an undertaker." "I must admit", said Sorin, "it sounds a bit morbid, but I can appreciate a man who's down to earth. ' "Anyway", said the angel, "the most exciting moments for this man shall come as he defeats a school from the Western shores of this country. One year his team shall beat that school by a single point, and thP next year his team shall win by six points. Pandemonium will follow im­mediately in each case and all will be joyous." "I am glad you have brought me this news, angel. It eases my wearied soul. Such a bright future gives me hope in divine providence." The angel did a quick double­take and said to him, "Did you say Devine providence?" At that very moment the bells tolled midnight and the angel faded away. Father Sorin pulled the covers up closer again and blew out the candle. "Darn parietals" he mumbled as he fell into a very deep sleep. 
SUR&! 7H4TIUAY 
YOV f}()N7 HAVE TO Jl/ST 8& aJtflrf/T!lP 70 ANY fOR. PAI<TICUtAR CIJIJI?St!BVT AVOIT-YOUU.. G£;TII GliMPSe 
!N6? OFIIJIIIT'!W!?fiM/S51N6 
\ BY MJT 711K!NG ANY 
Tuesday, February 25, 1975 the observer 5 
Dpinian !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~~~~!!!!!!!!! 


Undergrads

dave hayes 

I'm one undergraduate who thinks the recent graduate student protests need tempering. My blood boils with indignation when an Obse1·vpr columnist states that "grad students make this school more than the football capital of the Midwest." It is one thing to complain about graduate housing, quite another to take irresponsible pot-shots at undergraduates. 
Frankly, I'm tired of the implicit condescension that has been exhibited towards undergraduates in recent grad student editorials. Complaints that grads are "second rate" citizens blossom into rationale for blaming the administration for un­dergraduate favoritism. Housing is apparently an example of such special treatment but, as I will shortly-suggest, there is no favoritism here. The charge of 1'second class" citizenship, however, seems to go beyond the housing question. No other "discriminatory" practices are cited, but the undefinable grad feeling of being "left in the lurch" prompts a defensiveness which is evident in recent columns. Readers receive catalogues of grad activities <T.A.'s, research assistants, dining hall help, etc.) and editorialists assert that the grads give Notre Dame its prestige. 
What these editorialists ignore is the undeniable fact that Notre Dame purposely places an emphasis on undergraduate education. With the exception of a few graduate programs <law, engineering, some sciences), the reputation Notre Dame has built in the last 10­15 years is largely attributable to the bolstering of the un­dergraduate program. Independent educational evaluators have unabashedly pointed to the excellence of the undergraduate education at Notre Dame--this is what makes Notre Dame more than just the "football capital of the Midwest." 
Notre Dame proudly presents its faculty as a "teaching" faculty­relatively few T.A.'s teach major courses, as opposed to the practice of most major universities. Professors are quick to admit that a major emphasis on undergraduate education does exist. 
These arguments are not meant to suggest that graduate students ar~ not competent, but only to point out that graduates are, generally speaking, studying at a university which has built its foundation on undergraduate education. Surely graduate students have added to Notre Dame's prestige with some notable work, and their very presence does make Notre Dame a "university" in the strict sense of the word, but theseaccomplishmentsjustify neither complaints about administration emphasis on undergraduate education, nor slurs about fue quality of the Notre Dame un­dergraduate. This university has limited resources at its disposal­it can't maintain super grad programs across the board without sacrificing undergraduate education excellence; it has decided to maintain that undergraduate excellence. 
But so much for grappling with generalities; the specifics of the most recent grad student beef makes me wonder if grads don't want the best of both worlds. They demand treatment as 'first class' citizens, but seem unwilling to make the sacrifices which would merit that title. 
Apparently the gripe which marks the grad housing controversy is the lack of grad student input in the decision-making process . This, supposedly, indicates that they are "second class." If that's the argument, then a little history should clear things up. Theselastfew years have witnessed many housing shufflings, and undergrads had little or no voice in these decisions Perhaps we're all "second class" in that sense, but, more probably, perhaps grads don't understand what undergraduates have begrudgingly ac­cepted--that sacrifices must be made for coeducation; the full­fledged Notre Dame "citizen" will not have a co-ed environment without giving up some convenience. Grads have no monopoly on housing sacrifices--the exiles of Badin, Walsh, Lyons, Farley and B-P will testify to that. · 
Moreover, it doesn't seem the grad sacrifice is very severe. A transfer of student quarters from Lewis to Badin is involved, but the same number of students will be accommodated, grads will still have single rooms (while undergrads will be doubled-up in Lewis), kitchenettes and recreation rooms will be added to Badin facilities. One letter to the editor complained that Badin's locale was unfitted for grads because of undergraduate dorm noise. That student might stroll down the south quad on some weeknight and be ready for an eye opener--undergrads study too! All things considered, this move surely isn't much of a sacrifice for coeducation. And certainly if graduate students are to be "first class" citizens, then they must acknowledge that they are a part of the co-ed ND com­munity, and willingly accept the responsibilities inherent in that role. 
So with the lack of justifiable complaints that grad students can make about the Lewis-Badin transfer itself, now the principle of grad student input in the housing decision enters the foreground. Grad student-proposed strong arm tactics for achieving such representation include the picketing of the Administration Building and writing to college placement bureaus. Supposedly these powerful suggestions are impressive, but I find them quite ill­befitting mature grad students. The only tangible complaint justifying these "radical" measures is the Lewis-Badin move. Protest based on this complaint would be transparently self­serving; grad students want the university to veto the decision, to jeopardize the administration's co-ed plans, and yet propose no logical alternative. In essence, the vocal grads are looking at the situation through their own selfish eyes, not through the univer­sity's, who must make a viable policy choice, or even through the eyes of affected undergrads. 
by Garry Trudeau 
11/&U ... At£-RJ6HT. N11AHI 
/)(}I HAV& ONlY 711& 70 11/fAR./WY-tKAM51/Ji!E THIN6 SPfOAl? 8/./ICK Tl&. 
\ 
the observer 
Night Editor: Dan Sanchez Asst. Night Editor: Mary Janca Layout staff: Maureen Sajbel, Bob Varettoni, Bob Brink Day Editor: Bob Radziewicz 
Copy Reader: Ken Bradford Editorials: John Amantea Sports: Bill Brink Typists: Janet Carney, Karen Hinks, C. Arrieh, A. Peeler, N. viii Compugraphic: Chip Spina Night Controllers: Tim Murphy, Howard Halle Picture Screener: AI Ad Layout: Tom Whelan 


6 
the observer Tuesday, February 25, 1975 
Initiated by Student Affairs 
Recent changes stress new philosophy 
by Annf'tte Buzinski Starr Reporter 

During the past several months, the Office of Student Affairs has iniciated. some changes which stress a whole new philosophy. 
Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, Vice­President for Student Affairs, stated that education is not necessarily limited to the classroom but could extend to outside programs. Many ideas are currently being presented to faculty, administration and students for their opinion. 
Program brochurt> 

This is being done in the form of a brochure which lists and briefly describes some workshops and seminars which can be available to students if they are interested in them. In this way, "students can take advantage of the expertise on 
campus" Cannon added. 
l'nrlf'•·graduate counseling 
Included in the suggested programs are sessions which would aid undergraduates in choosing majors,how to manage a budget, future job opportunities, and, generally how to cope with life after graduation. Cannon noted, "It's a whole new concept in career development which begins with undergraduates.'' 
by Mariannf' Morgan Starr Reporter 
Social activist and civil rights 

movement leader Rev. William 
Sloane Coffin, Jr. will lead "A 
Christian Response to the Hunger 
Crisis," the Lenten Prayer Ser­
vice, on Wednesday, February 26 
at 10:30 in Sacred Heart Church. 
Coffin, former University chaplain at Yale University and pastor of the Church of Christ, is currently involved in the world hunger crisis, particularly on the Yale campus. He is the director of the Yale Hunger Action Project This group organized a Fast day last Nov~;mber in which over 2500 people participated and netted almost $8,000 for distribution for the hungry in Bangladesh, in Africa, and in New Haven. 
John Barkett, former Notre Dame Student Body President <Class of 1972) is working closely in the group's efforts to organize similar actions on other campuses into a nationwide response to the hunger problem. 
Coffin became widely known for his participation in the anti­Vietnam movement. In 1972, as a member of the Committee of Liaison, he escorted three released prisoners of war back to the United States. 
He was among the first to accept draft cards from war protestors. Subsequently, he was arrested with Dr. Benjamin Spock for aiding and abetting draft-resisters. 
The charges were later dropped. 
Active in civil rights during the early '60's, Coffin broke the 'racial barriers' in Montgomery, Alabama along with 10 other "Freedom Leaders," by eating at a segregated lunch counter. He was arrested and subsequently appealed his case to the Supreme Court. The Higher Court voided the local segregation laws. 
Coffin has received the Dahlberg Peace Award by the North American Baptist Convention, the Americanism Award of the Con­necticut Valley Council of B'nai B'rith, and an honorary Doctor of Divinity degree from Wesleyan University. 
Before the Lenten Prayer Service Coffin will be available for informal discussions Wednesday at 3:30 in the ballroom, second 

Observer lns_ifihll 
The Placement Office has 
remained basically the same. As 
previoulsy, recruiters will con­
tinue to visit with the seniors 
and job applications will be han­
dled. 
Seminars and worshops will begin to counsel undergraduates and help them make wise decisions. These meetings will encourage the student to give critical thought to her future plans. 
Also entered in the Placement Department is a program con­structed to help liberal arts majors. Opportunities will be 

Response to hunger crisis 
Coffin leads prayer service 
· 
Fr. Frank Gartland, director of the Notre Dame's coalition Hunger Group, called Coffin's visit "an effort to raise the mind and con­sciousness of the Notre Dame community to the tragedy of people suffering in poverty pockets in the United States and overseas." 
Gartland said he hopes that with the pooled effort of various universities and groups like the one headed by Coffin the federal government will act under the provisions of law PL 480. This federal law authorizes the release of food to governments, voluntary agencies and the United Nations World Food Program. 

II Tonight 8, 10 pm I Eng Aud. I $1.00 
II 
MICHIGAN STREET 


ADULT THEATRES 
* 2 FILMS 

* 
BOOKSTORE 
LIVE FLOOR SHOW
* 

1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
CALL 282-1 206 FOR INFORMATION 
·-----------------­
1 
I I I I I I 
I LITERRR I DAPTRT,ONS I ESTIVAL 
pointed out to them for jobs in such fields as Government, Philosophy and History. 
Hall programs 
Gail Ritchie, Assistant to the Director of Counseling, has gathered a sort of steering group of students who will reflect programs needed for the halls. This group is designed to help the administration create programs for students who want to do something yet don't want to be too active. 
"These new residence hall programs are a facet of the whole idea of student development", claimed Cannon. 
"Every member in the Student Affairs office is working together to implement the total philosophy and to assist in making a sound choice for whatever the student may be doing," Cannon said. 
Co-f'xchange of services 
In addition, the Women's Council of St. Mary's and Notre Dame was formed to provide a co-exchange of services which would lead to a better understanding, friendship and learning. 
Cannon emphasized the im­portance of programs in halls but also assured that "they are not thrust upon students, but rather, made available to them." 
This makes it easier for students and faculty to become involved in programs thaththe students really want, !he. noted. 


This phenomenal group does everything from down-home bluegrass to contemporary pop 
**APPEARINGu 
8:30 p.m. -3 Shows Nightly 
Feb. 26th thru March 1st $2.00 Cover Charge 
ALSO FEATURING TANGLWOOD FOR YOUR DANCING PLEASURE 
52890 US. 31 North 
-South Bend. lndtana 46637 
I 


I I I I I 
II 
I 
III 




The Last Hurrah I 

Starring Spencer Tracy I 

Pat O'Brien I 
from the Novel by Edwin O'Connor 
I 

~----------------------------------­

Duggan's selection ends a yearlong search 
(continued from page 3) open discussion to express their set up by the sub-committees at man and consultant for various students, administration, and to be views on each of the candidates. O'Hare. Members who in­organizations and schools and has interviewed by the Board of They then comprised a report terviewed him were also im­also contributed articles to several 
Regents. Thus began the most which was given at the December pressed and wanted him brought to publications. intense phase of work -in-meeting by Dr. Olsen. Regents campus, Sr. Elena reported. Dr. Campanale commented that 
terviewing potential candidates. were asked to write letters to the Dr. Duggan earned his B.A. from he was "extremely happy" with 
The committee was eager to find Corporate Board Chairman ex-the College of the Holy Cross, the choice. qualified women for the job and a pressing their opinions of the Worchester, Massachusetts in number were interviewed, ac-candidates. 1950. He attended Yale where he cording to Sr. Elena. However, In early February, members of received his M.A. in 1955 and, in none finally had all of the the Corporate Board met in Boston 1957, a Ph.D. in Educational qualifications since some high-with several of the candidates Psychology. He held several level administrative experience recommended by the Regents and important positions in such schools was necessary and the number of the decision to appoint Dr. John as Canterbury Preparatory School women available with those Duggan as the new President of St. in New Midford, Connecticut; qualities is small. Mary's College was made. Univeristy of Bridgeport; and Yale 
In October and November, a Dr. Duggan was recommeded to University. large portion of individuals in-the Search Committee by an ad-In January, 1969, he became the terviewed were studied and the ministrator from another college, Vice-President for Student Affairs number of candidates was Sr. Elena said. The Committee and Professor of Psychology at narrowed down to five men, Dr. was impressed with his credentials Vassar College. He holds several Paul J. Reiss. Dr. Francis J. and invited him to the interviews other positions as trustee, chair-
Boyd Litzenger, John

Dr -~~~~~~~~6[iti~fi~~~B~i~~i(ii5~iaMertz,Robert Dr.Giroux, and Dr. 
Duggan. 
Prior to the December 14 Board 1 of Regents meeting, members of the Search Committee met in an 
advertisement 

Jobs For Summer Look Promising 
Informed sources report that summer job opportunities for college students "look good" this year. N a tiona! Parks, Dude Ranches, Guest Resorts, Private Camps, and other tourist areas throughout the nation are now seeking student applications. 
Summer job placement coordi­nators at Opportunity Research (SAP) report that despite national economics tourist areas are looking for a record season. Polls indicate that people may not go for the big purchases such as new cars, new homes, furniture or appliances, but most appear to be planning for a big vacation. 
A free booklet on student job assistance may be obtained by sending a self-addressed stamped envelope to Opportunity Research, Dept. SJO, 55 Flathead Dr., Kalispell, MT 59901. Student job seekers are urged to apply early! 


CLFISSIFIED ADS 
WANTED Need ride East (Toledo) weekend of Feb. 28 Call Ann 4264  For Sale: 2 Sansui AS-300 speakers 12" -3 way systems. List: $150 ea. Excellent sound at $200 or best offer tor the pair. Call Tim 6756, 8818  SKI TRIPS! THE NOTRE DAME SKI TEAM INVITES YOU THE IRISH BENDER. CRYSTAL MT. MICH. MARCH 15-16  RECREATION WORKERS, in group home for delinquent adolescent girls. Room and board offered for supervision of 3 recreation activities per week.  
Ride needed to Chicago Feb. 28 afternoon or evening. Mary 4543 Need ride to and from Ft. Lauderdale Spring Break. Share driving and expenses. Call around  NOTICES OBSERVER STAFF: THIS IS YOUR CONSCIENCE SPEAKING! "MOM"  SKI JACKSON HOLE! THE BIGGEST MT. IN THE USA MARCH 22-29 -MEETING FOR TRIPS MON. MAR. 3 Rm 1-C LAFORTUNE 7:00P.M. MORE INFO CALL 6811 or 6856  Full-time work or study outside the Home is permitted. Excellent experiense opportunity for soc, psych, social work, education, theology, etc. majors. Reply to Carol Wilken 233-9491  
midnight Jun 8685 Ride needed for 2 to Indianapolis Feb. 28, return March 2. Call 4408, 4549. Wanted: 2-man tent for spring break. Call 289-6760 Ride wanted for two to N.Y.C. area for Spring Break. Desperate! Call Donna at 6906  Western Electronics 24 hr. T.V. service. 1530 Western Ave. 282-1955 FLORIDA CLUB MEETING TODAY IN LAFORTUNE CROOM 2DJ AT 7:00 p.m. DON'T FORGET! Money? Morrissey Loan will lend up to $150 for 30 days 1 day waiting  Over Seas Jobs -Australia, Europe, S. America, Africa, Students all professions and oc­cupations $700 -$3000 monthly. E·.penses paid, overtime, sight­seeing. Free information. Tran­sworld Research Co. Dept. F3, P.0. Box 603, Corte Madera, Ca.94925  GOOD TICKETS FOR THE MARCH 12 JOE WALSH CON­CERT AT THE A.,C.C. ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE. FOR RENT A 6 mo. sublease of a $175.00 1 bedroom apt. for only $130. If in­terested call Bonnie 232-5853  
FOR SALE  period. Basement of LaFortune. Daily 11:15 to 12:15 S.H.A.R.E. Hotline phone 4311 rm  Tune specialist 2 barrel carburetor overhaul $24.95 parts included. 232­1796  Now renting 2 to 5 bedroom homes. Completely furnished for Sept. Ca II 234-9364  
Garrard zero-100 with walnut base & dust cover-$130. Call Larry 6864  15 Holy Cross S.M.C. completely confidential 8-12 nightly  MEDICAL PRODUCT GROUP DISCUSSION: Any person (student. faculty, or staff) in­ Five and six bedroom houses for rent. Leases run Sept thru May. Excellent condition within '12 mile  
Set of Wilson Blue-Ridge golf clubs. Right Hand. 4 woods, 8 irons. Good condition. For person 5'9" -5'11" asking $120. Call Mike Towle 3134  HASH BROWN BLUES BAND, NOW AVAILABLE FOR YOUR PARTY, DANCE OR FORMAL. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CALL 272-9895 •  terested in participating in a group discussion of the effectiveness and-or uses of cold & sinus remedies, (e.g. Contact, Dristan, Nyquil, Sinutab, Sine-Off, Sine­Aid, and SinarestJ please call Jim  of Campus 233-2613 House for rent, 1 campus, ready for occupancy. 233-6438  mile from immediate  
1974 Camaro­automatic, power, AM-FM, AC, Custom Interior. 232­8600  Disciplinary Action hanging over your head? CaII Student Govt. 7668. We may be able to help.  3155, D.C. 1739, or Myron-8687 "God help 9-C"  LOST & FOUND Found: Calculator. Call to identify  
289-3369  

Dr. Duggan has experience in the whole area of student affairs, but also is interested in curriculum and academic affairs, Sr. Elena noted. "It looks like he's the right man for St. Mary's at this time," she noted. 
Lost: Sterling silver cross, 3/• inch, no chain. Between D-1 parking lot and Keenan. Of great sentimental value. Reward offered. If found, call Pat 3303. 
PERSONALS 
To: our over the hill Lady-What's it like to be 20 + 1 day? M&M&M 
Dear Doc, Happy Birthday! And may tubas 
always play in your moonlight. You know... Love + Chipmunk Kisses, 
Skiduba Godiva 
SUMMER IN EUROPE Uni-Travel Charters at less than '12 reg. economy fare. 65 day advance payment required. U.S. Gov't approved. TWA . Pan Am . Transavia 707's. Call toll tree 1-800­
325-4867. 
Dummy, You brighten up our day, but more 
than that you liven up our nights. Happy Birthday Two Longing for another meal. 
Aaron, Chuck, Dave, 
We've been seeing way too much or you lately. You're three of a kind. 
Thanks to Steph and Anne, two gracious hostesses, for the great dinner and a most enjoyable evening. 


the observer Tuesday, February 25, 1975 




Irish make it or break it tonight 
Victory over Fordham is essential to keep NCAA tournament hopes alive 
by Greg ('organ don't even want to talk about what Fordham's top scorer andSports Editor would happen if we lose. That's rebounder is senior center Darryl 

"Wt.>'re playing these two just why tonight and Saturday we need Brown. Brown is averaging 21.6 like we played UCLA," said Irish this place fired up. The students points per ball game and grabbing basketball coach Digger Phelps have got to help us again this week. 13 rebounds. He is aided by 6-4 yesterday afternoon as he readied We need both these games." sophomore forward Kevin Fallon his team for tonight's game with Fordham is first, and the Rams 04.5 ppg and 6.1 reb.) and Jack thl' Fordham University Rams. are out to prove a thing or two after Troha <6.2 ppg). 'The backcourt "This is a must win situation." being drubbed by Marquette last tandem of Stan Frankowski and 
Thursday, 101-64. Of course that Kevin Brown rounds out For­
Besides this evening's contest with the 13·8 Rams, Phelps is also was after Fordham coach Hal dham's starting five. Nestor Cora, 
Wissel incurred the wrath of AI Kevin Carlesimo, and Kevinconsidering Notre Dame's final 
regular season game this Saturday McGuire by claiming the Warriors Collins are Wissel's top reserves. with Dayton. "We can't afford to played a "patsy" schedule. The Rams' biggest problem has split with these two teams. Without Wissel isn't about to give the been inconsistency. Fordham these two games we can say good­Irish that added incentive tonight. pulled off the first major upset of With a win this evening the Rams
bye to an NCAA tournament bid." the year in December during the Currently, the Irish are 16-8 and can clinch a berth in the ECAC ECAC holiday tournament when it 
tournament in Madison Square defeated favorite Southernteetering on the edge of missing 
Garden which will determine one
this year's tourney. The 75-70 loss California, 83-66. Since that time, 
of the at-large teams in the eastern however, Fordham has lost six ofto DePaul was damaging to Notre regional of the NCAA's. So far, the its last eleven games.
Dame's chances. However, should teams in that playoff are St. The Irish, on the other hand,the Irish win their two remaining 
home games, considering their John's, Rutgers, Seton Hall and have won nine of their last 11 either Manhattan or Fordham. although
difficult schedule, ND's TV appeal contests, the loss to and Adrian Dantley, an 18-8 mark 
Other than securing an ECAC DePaul has taken a little wind out should be enough to get them a spot, the Rams would, no doubt, of their sails. In an effort to getenjoy the pleasure of beating their things at full speed again, Phelps 
first-round invite. 
"Who knows?" said Digger, old coach Digger Phelps. They may have some surprising lineup "But we're thinking positively; we seem to have the tools to do it. changes in store tonight. Dantley 
and fellow forward Billy Paterno are expected to get the starting nod as usual, but the other three starters will be chosen from a group that includes Dave Batton, Toby Knight, Jeff Carpenter, Dwight Clay, Peter Crotty, Ray




OBSERVER 
Martin and Duck Williams. 
Phelps is hoping his juggling act will work. If it doesn't the Irish may find themselves back in the

SPORTS 
NIT, and although New York is home for many of the ballplayers, San Diego is much nicer in March. 
Tipoff time for tonight's game is 8:10p.m. 

Women cagers down SMC 
b)' Grt>gg Bangs game because the Ice Capades find their shooting touch, par­
were using the arena floor. But the 
ticulary from the outside. TheThe ACC "Pit" is usually switch did nothing to keep spec­team's best outside shooter, Judy

associated with being the home of tators away from what is sure to Shiely was not available for 
Notre Dame's wrestlers and become an intense rivalry as an and the Irish were
the gamefencers. However, the Notre overflow crowd showed up to soon forced to go inside.

Dame and St. Mary's women's watch an extremely fast paced C'lemency, Sheiely's partner atbasketball teams brought their ~arne. 
guard and ex-high school team­own form of Hoosier hysteria to the The pace might've been fast, but mate from Wauwatosa, Wise, borepit this past Saturday in an ex­the scoring certainly wasn't. 

the brunt of the scoring load for ND

citing game that saw the Irish nip Nearly three minutes had elapsed in the first half, adding a jumperthe SMC "Saints", 38-37. before center Karen Cra11e put and two free throws to her previous The game was billed as a SMC on the board with a five foot jump shot for six points. Centerrematch between the undefeated jump shot. Crane scored eight Mary Beth Mazanex scored fourSaints and the rapidly improving points in the 1st half and, more im­points on two inside jumps whileIrish. Saint Mary's went into the portantly, dominated both boards, Pat Coogan hit on one jump shot. 
game with a perfect 3-Q record, thereby holding the cold Irish The second half opened with the
including a win over Notre Dame shooters to one shot. Guard Maryearlier in the season. After losing Clemency scored ND's first points Irish using a full court press. It 
bore instant results as the Saints

their first four, Coach Jeanne of the day on a short jumper to 
Earley's team had come back to repeatedly turned the ball over,
bring them within two of the lead. 
resulting in baskets for the Irish by

win games over Kalamazoo and This was as close as the Irish came Lewis colleges. The stage was set in the first half as SMC pulled Coogan, Clemency, Mazanec and for a rather interesting rematch. away to a 19·14 halftime lead. Coogan again. ND Probably 
The Pit became the site for the would've put the game away at this
The Irish just couldn't seem to 
point if it hadn't been for the continued hot shooting of SMC's Mullaney. Mullaney scored ten more points in the second half to keep SMC within range. 
With a little over two minutes left, 
the Irish had a fairly safe five point 
lead. But then Mullaney canned a 
long jumper and Crane hit two free 
throws to close the gap to one, 
Barb Frey sank a ten footer to put
... 

-
the Irish up by three. Cathy Maddox then hit the first end of a one and one to close within two. Crane hit one more freethrow with fifty seconds left. With twelve seconds left, Beth Liebscher 
of SMC was fouled and went to the
~ 
line. She hit the shot but a lane violation was detected and the one point Irish ·lead held. 
Mullaney led all scorers 
with eighteen while Crane finished with 13 for SMC. Clemency topped the Irish with 14 while Mazanec finished with 10 and Coogan 8. 
Thus, the Irish team closed out their year with a three game winning streak, something both the team and Coach Jeanne Earley are quite satisfied with. "I'm really pleased with the way things came along," said Earley,"We started out against some tough teams, but things came along and and we got going at the end of the season." 

PAT COOGAN drives in for two more points, helping the NO women's team defeat St. Mary's 38-37. 
~ 
' 
Adrian Dantley will start tonight... so will Bill Paterno. But the rest of the starting lineup is up for grabs as the Irish take on the Fordham 
Rams in the ACC. 

by Ernie Torriero 
The University of Notre Dame swim team won its eleventh meet of the year, as they downed Illinois State, 63-50, Saturday afternoon at the Rockne Memorial Pool. This was the last home meet of the year for the Irish, who performed before a highly-partisan near capacity crowd. 
For the third straight year, Notre Dame and Illinois State went into the final event, the 400-yard freestyle relay, with the score at 56-50. Two years ago, the Redbirds hung on to win 63-50 and last year the Irish came on to win, 57-56. This year, Notre Dame was not to be denied. The quartet of Ed Fitzsimons, Jim Severyn, Jim Meagher and Jim Kane nabbed the heat, while setting a pool record with a time of 3:15.7, thus sealing the 63-50 victory. 
The highlight of the meet was the diving of Bob Ebel. Ebel broke his own varsity and pool record by amassing 302.65 points. This mark qualifies Ebel for the NCAA Tournament in Cleveland, Ohio, March 27 and 28. 
Bob Thompson swam well in the backstroke events. He was especially impressive in the 200· yard backstroke as he set a varsity record with a time of 2:03.2. 
The Redbird's Pat O'Neill broke a pool record that had held for one week, as he swam the 1000-yard freestyle in a mark of 10:21.5. 
This was the last home meet for seven Notre Dame swimmers; Ray Carey, Jim Kane, Dan Makielski, Jim Meagher, Chris Payne, Bob Thompson, Mike Wolz and the senior manager Bill Matarazzi. 
Next wee,)tend, Notre Dame travels to Detroit, Michigan to compete in the Motor City In­vitational. 






