

university of notre dome st. mary's college 
Vol. X, No. 23 Frida , October 3, 1975 
'Poor control' blamed 
S.U. debt listed at $34,000 
the exact price of the machine, I b~ i\lar~· Heher know that instead of making profit, St•nior Staff Heportt>r tlwv lost $7,000 so that we were $8ll00 off on the predicted budget,"
Poor control in Student Union he stated. 
commissions caused a $34,000 debt last vear. according to Student He cited the Cultural Arts Gove.rnment Treasurer John Commission as another factor in Hargrave. He said the Concert the loss. It spent $15,000 over its Commission accounted for the budgeted $18,000. major part of the loss. 
"There were charges to be paid 
"It is true that all the main over the summer, too. Roughly concerts in the ACC netted profits $2000 was spent to rent typewrit­t.>xcept for Alice Cooper. In fact we l'rs. phones, to pay for freshman were $4000 ahead until then. But orientaton and the dog book" he Alice Cooper was a poor concert said. and lost $15,000," Hargrave stated. 
Student FPe paid Debt Hargrave also cited two minor concerts not held in te ACC which The debt was paid off in full at lost money. The first, Herbie the start of te school year by the Hancock, incurred a loss of $3,800 increase in student fees, he noted. 


an the second, John Sebastian, John Hargrave
"Last May Vice-President for
drew a loss of $2,6000. 
Student Affairs Bro. Just Pac­

Hemainder of Loss zezny. SBP Ed Byrne, former mission and possibly $2,000 Treasurer Mike Schnaus and through Campus Press, but this The remaining $14,000 of the loss myself decided to raise student would not cover the $34,000 debt, he 
was spread out over other Student fees from $14 to $17 to cover the said. 
debt," Hargrave stated.
Union commissions, the treasurer 
"If we had not paid off the debt, 
said. 

There was no other way to raise we would have had $34,000 less to "For example, we expected $34,000, explained Hargrave, since work with this year and I did not Campus Press to make a profit of Student Government has no think it would be fair to the $1358, but they bought a new money-raising activities. Student students. · I want to be able to machine we had not anticipated in Union could possibly raise about provide the same amount of ser­the budget. Although I do not know $3000 through Services Com-vices as last year," Hargrave said. 
ND student government budget spending for year down $41,000 
by Pat Cole 

campus organizations will not League, said, "I don't know what 
_ Shiff R t>porter 

receive aid this year as the budget happened, but it angers me to see
The Student Government 

stands. Among these organizat­that we are not receiving any aid."
reduced the 1975-76 school year 
ions are TALOS, the Business Act­

budget from last year by $41,000. Cutback effects Clubs
ivities Council, the Notre Dame
Last year, the Student Govern­

Chapter of the National Society of Dexter Gourdin, a member oft­
ment expenses totaled $91,000. 

Black Engineers, and the Right to he Notre Dame Chapter of the Nat­
This year the budget is estimated 

Life League. ional Society of Black Engineers,
t9 be $50,000. 
remarked on the effects of no
Club President comments
$30,000 over Budget 
money to this organization. "We
"Some clubs did not .feel they

"After spending $91,000," started the club this year. We
would get aid," continued Byrne.

commented Ed Byrne, Notre intended to set up a test file for
"Since they weren't aided in past

Dame student body president, "we freshman and sophomore students 
years, fewer clubs applied for aid. 

discovered we went over the of the club. Also., we needed money 
Actually in the Student Govern­

budget by $35,000. Some of the to bring in speakers for the club
ment budget, we cut back funds by 

clubs didn't use all of the money. and for newsletters and pam­
$5,000."

This is why we cut back." phlets." Byrne said that the Student Members of organizations not Government budget went over due planning to receive aid expressed 
This year, student government
to Student Union expenses such as their feelings. Joe Corpora, 

has allotted $6,551 for distribution 
concerts. Consequently, some president of the Right to Life 

to 14 organizations. 
------r--------------------­
New ca111pus lighting is installed for protection 
b,Y Kathy Mills lights. Wilson said they will "most St>mor taff Reporter certainly consider the student suggestions regarding dark spots
Notre Dame's campus will be which need lights." He added he more brightly lit in the future in hopes to experiment with different the interest of safety, according to lights on campus.
Fr. Jerome Wilson, vice-president for business affairs, and Sr. John Wilson said there is a new type of Miriam Jones, assistant to the light outside Sacred Heart provost. Church 
··we are putting more lights next "We hope to do the whole to Stanford, "explained Wilson. campus like this," he stated, "but "This will make the path from a lot of electrical work is needed to LPwis to the North Dining Hall do it." better lighted." 
Jones said the University is also Wilson noted, "We have received investigating installing lights on a lot of complaints of the uglinessthe road which runs along the of the light poles in the past, ex­ACC and the tennis courts. 
pecially when new lights were"The lights will be put past the installed near Columba Hall."
tennis courts," Jones stated, "We can't light the whole
"because a lot of students who live campus like a parking lot," hein Campus View Apartments us remarked.
this path at night." She added Fr. Wilson has 
He advised students to "figurepromised the University "will do out where the dark spots are, andwhat it can." 
avoid them. There are ways to goWilson observed some other that are brighter than others."
areas on campus could use more Wilson also warned it islights. However, he noted more foolishness to walk alone" at night.
light poles are needed and must be ordered. 
\\ onwn•s Saft>ty Projt•ctNPw Lights Installed University Referals, adivision of Jones pointed out that, during the Notre Dame Legal Aid andthe summer, new lights were in­Defender Association, is starting astalled near Breen-Phillips and project for women's safety, ac­
Farley. between the Ad­cording to Pat Bergeson, a
ministration Building and Sacred divisional director of theHeart Church, south of Corby Hall, Association and member of near Lyons Hall and behind Lewis University Referrals.
Hall. 
"We have a proposal to augmentIn addition, new bulbs were in­the lighting all over campus,"stalled in the light posts between B('rgeson state. "Nothing is tooLewis Hall and the Administration expensive if you are protectingBuilding. 
people."
"These bulbs penetrate farther "Ligh-ting discourages rape at theand give off more light," Jones very start." the stated.

Pxplained. 
Bergeson alsc rnt•:ltioned she hasJones said she is "conscious" of had "bad experiences" withthe darkness of the road which security guards this yarruns past the ROTC Building, the Bergeson also mentione( ;he haslog chapel and the Grotto. 

had "bad experiences··· with
"Fr. Wilson is also conscious security guards this year."

of the need for light there," she­''The guard at the main gateadded. 
would not let me on campusto pick
Other places students have 
up a girl at 1 a.m. after he had let
mentioned as being too dark in­lilt' on

dude the area directly in froni of campus at 10 p.m.," she 
explained. "He said, "She'll have

O'Shaughenssy and the D-1 
to walk."
parking lot. 
She contmued, "I have had andOne student pointed out the heard of many cases where theareas around the Galvin Center 

are guards were extremely rude. Theyand the Computer Center won't offer the excort service, butvery dark. 

vou have to ask them, and then you Considt>r Student Suggestions must wait."
. -. 
Escort St>nict> Complaints 

Several students have said the areas behind O'Shaughnessy and Bergeson cited one case when the 
around Badin Hall need more 
(continued on page4) 


Roemer:no stripping 
by Shawn Scannell demonstrations of this nature will Staff Reporter involve those responsible meeting with me and that disciplinary 
James Roemer, dean of action of some serious nature will students. yesterday commented be taken. that "stripping at football games is S; ripping at games is not worth­ended." \\ hale and has no redeeming social 

''As a result of his performance ,·alue. If it happened elsewhere, Saturday, the student was sum­the individual would be arrested moned to my office where I for indecent .\!xposurP. It doesn't discussed the matter with him. As matter if its's at the football game. far as I'm concerned, the tradition I don't feel that makes it OK." of stripping at football games is "When the stripper is climbing ended. •· Roemer said. on that utility pole, my first con­
A letter from the stripper ap­cern is with safety. He poses a pears in today's Obst>rver. threat to himself and others. That 

"I think the student is a real pole is not meant to climb on and if quality guy who really regrets it fell. it could cause injury to those what he did, which is evidenced by around the area and to the person his letter. I think it took a lot of on it." guts to write that letter of his own "This also could disrupt the volition. It was totally his idea." communication lines which run Roemer added. through the pole. I urge thatno one 
Roemer continued, "I want climb on this for any reason, he students to know that future added. 
On the inside 
Dr. Francis resigns from SLC •••page 3 
Indiana Secretary of State Larry Conrad discusses 
our isolated government .••page 4 Government Profs vie•N the recent trend toward security for Presidential candidates ••••pages 
SBP Ed Byrne looks at the Armory party and Its possible Implications •••page 6 
And Griff Introduces "a champion overcome with wine." .•••page 7 


the observer Friday, October 3, 1975 


·natianal briefs 
INDIANAPOLIS <AP) At least eight eight John Marshall High School students and a police officer were injured today when two disturbances erupted outside the school following a morning pep rally. 
SAN FRANCISCO <AP) The U.S. Court of Appeals today turned down a request for bail reduction for Lynette "Squeaky" Fromme, the Charles Manson followerchargedwith pointing a loaded gun at president Ford. . 
Miss Fromme, 26, is being held in Sacramento on $350,000 ball, reduced from initial bail of $1 million. 

a:n campus laday 
3 pm -philosophy perspectives "lndlvidua~ un­derstanding: its nature & successes", by stephen toulmln, library 
4:30 pm -lecture _"explaining cognitive achievement In economics? a test or alternative procedures", by profs. swartz and bonello, room 110, law bldg. 
~ · , " nm evensong vespers, log chapel 
5:15 pm -mass and dinner, bulla sned 
1 9, 11 pm film, ··r~turn of the dragon" engineering aud., $1 El. 30 pm -armory dance. south bend armory, S3 must ride bus 10 · 1 am -!.me coffeehouse, dining hall basement 10-1 am nan coffeehouse "john salveson, sheila rafferty, 
steve paspek, Iafortune basement saturday. ocfvl)er 4, 1975 
10. 30 am rugby "notre dame vs kent state" stepan field 
10:30 pm -multi media show "notre dame In review" washington hall 
1:30 pm ·football "michigan state at notre dame" football stadium 
4:45 pm religious service "rosary at grotto" sponsored by fatima society 
5:00 pm -lacrosse "nd varsity vs. alumni earlier field amission free. 
7:30 om gospel rock concert "second cahpter of acts 'a band called david' '' "o'laughlin aud., $2 at door 
7 ;30 prn concert "rod stewart laces, j. geils band" ace, bleachers only 
~··••t•dV, "'~"!. 19!5 
I 30 pm tennis match "smc women vs nd women" smc tennis courts 

Navy doesn't 'go-go' lor 


subJnarine's deck dancer 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A submadne skipper who per­mitted a topless go-go dancer to perform on his ship's deck was severely admonished Thursday by the Navy's top ad­miral. 
Adm. James L. Holloway III ruled against Cmdr. Connelly Stevenson but softened . the pen-. alties recommended by subordi­nates. He found Stevenson guil­ty of failing to exercise judg­ment and violating regulations. 
The incident occurred July 10 when dancer Cat Futch per­formed her topless routine while the submarine Finback sailed from Port Canaveral, Fla. 
Holloway ordered that "a punitive letter of admonition" be given the 41-year-old Steven­son. 
However the admiral di-

ANTONIO CANTANZARITE INVITES NOTRE DAME STUDENTS AND FANS TO ANTONIO'S TO CELEBRATE ANOTHER IRISH VICTORY! 
rected that the record of his re­lief from command of the Fin­back be changed to drop the term "for cause" in light of Stevenson's over-all record. 
Relief for cause is considered one of the strongest adminis­trative measures that can be used against officers, the Navy noted. 
At the same time, Holloway 

cantelled  a  recommendation  by  
Stevenson's  superiors  that  he  
be  required  to  forfeit  a  half­ 

month's pay. • 
The announcement said that Holloway's actions "do not pre­clude consideration of Steven­son for future assignment to command." 
The letter of admonition is a black mark which is expected to make it difficult for Steven­son to win promotion to higher r nk. 

11503 Lincoln Way West in Osceola 674-9928 
ENTERTAINMENT FRI/SAT/SUN SUNDAY LIQUOR LICENSE 
FANS WITHOUT TICKETS 
WELCOME TO WATCH 
THE GAME IN THE BAR 
Slogan contest field narrows down to ten 
by Liz Merrell Staff Reporter 
A preliminary meeting to select the winner of the St. Mary's Mascot Contest was held yesterday in the office of Dr. William Hickey, vice-president of Academic Affairs for SMC. 
Serving as judges for the contest were Dr_ Hickey, Stevie Wernig, assistant to the vice-president for Student Affairs; Mike Reynolds, of the Public Information Office; Diane Davis, from the Alumni Office; Joan McDermott, student body president, and Denise Pet­erson, student representative. 
The judges disucssed exactly what type of mascot they were looking for to represent the school. Although the winner was not selected, the field was narrowed 
down  to  approximately  ten  
finalists.  
Cathy  Coyne,  student  

development commissioner, who served as coordinator for the event. said that she received 45 t'ntries and a number of prank slogans by the Sept. 28 deadline. 
Coyne said, "A great deal of en· l husiasm was displayed about the idea by the students as well as the faculty." She was quite pleased with the response. 
The judges plan on meeting again to make the final decision sometime next week. 

ERRATUM 
Yesterday's Obst•n·er in­correctly stated that buses for the Armory dance would pick up off­campus students at the Library Lounge and Campus View Apart­ments. 
The buses will pick up passengers only at the Notre Dame main circle and Holy Cross Hall at St. Mary's. 
Off-campus students will be dropped off at the Library Lounge and Campus View at the end of the evening, but they must board the bus at the Notre Dame and St. Mary's locations. 
Former ND prof 

dies in Calif. 
Alden E. Davis, former professor of business ad­ministration at Notre Dame, died Tuesday in Lomalinda Hospital in California. 
Davis, who served on the Notre Dame faculty from 1932 to 1950, had been ill for some time, ac­cording to close friends. 
Contributions to the American Cancer Society are requested in his behalf. Memorial services will be held tomorrow in California. 
SUNDAY MASSES (Main Church) 
5: lSp.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:30a.m. Sun. Fr. Chuck Faso, O.F.M. 
10:45a.m. Sun. Fr. John F. Lahey, C.S.C. 
12: 15p.m. Sun. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. (Evensong at 4:30p.m. in the 'Lady Chapel) 
rYW"•MYM11,.."111'"'M'MIMIIIIIMII""""""W•n"IMIIflll111111f 

LAST CHAt£E TO PUROiASE § STLI:ENT HEAI..lH INSURANCE ; 
i
Oct. 6 Deadline 
I
Call283-6114 
5 
1 2-1 M W F 1 -2 T-Th = 
= 
= 
-= 
>Room 1 02 Infirmary I 
·-IUHIIUUIIIIIUIIIII"UIIIICIIIHIHIIIIIHIIIIIIIIII.II·I·AI&I...II'IIIIIIIIIIIUIII. 

FAST TV SERVICE and SALES 
WESTERN ELECTRONICS 
1530 WESTERN AVE· 282-1955 


----------------~i
iND 
THIS SUNDAY SEPT. 28 

1 NO COVER 1 I CHARGE WITH I I THIS AD I I MUST BE 18 OR OVER I I now appearing I 
I RIDGE ROAD I 





I SBDLJrS .I
I I
Kl'l"l CLUB 

L-.iBiitiiiiili:L~iWa..J 

''It's hard to top the challenge and reward NUPOC offers.'' 
It's true. The opportunities you'll have as a Nuclear Prop~lsion Officer Candida~e are far from ordinary. Just ask Lieutenant Charles Colher, from Baltimore, Maryland. Chuck's a nuclear trained Naval Officer and his next as~ signment will be in a nuclear powered Polaris submarine. Destination: the world. 
If you think you have what it takes to become a NUPOC, we'd like to talk to you. 
The graduate level training you'll receive in our NUPO~ program will prepare you. for supervising the operatton of our nuclear propulston plants on either surface ships or submarines. NUPOC: it means Nuclear Propulsion Qfficer Candidate. But it spells opportunity. 
The opportunity is for real ... andsoarewe. NAVY. 

For more information, see: Write Lt. Bill Hughes Officer Programs Bldg. 41 NAS Glenview Ill. 60026 

Francis resigns froiD SLC post· 
by Phil Cackley Staff Reporter 

Prof. Michael J. Francis resigned from the Student Life Council <SLC> earlier this week effective immediately. 
Francis, one of five faculty members on the SLC, cited reasons of lack of time and disenchantment with the effectiveness of the SLC as the reasons for his resignation. 
"I had been made director of graduate studies in government this summer. This is a very time­consuming position. And as· the appointment carne in mid­summer, I was already carrying a 
regular teaching  load,"  Francis  
stated.  
The  combination  of  the  two  

would severely limit the time he had to devote to the SLC, he ex­
plained. 
Francis is associate prof. of Government and International · Studies. This would have been his second year of a two-year term. 
He also pointed to the SLC's ineffectiveness as a factor in his departure from the council. "I don't think it's structured to ac­complish very much," ·Francis said. "I really felt frustrated on the council last year." 
~·1 don't think it's worth a faculty member's time, at least under the conditions which existed in the SLC last year. Perhaps things may improve this year," he added. 
One problem which hampered Francis last year was a high rate of absenteeism."! probably missed one third of the meetings. People may have thought I wasn't in­terested in the SLC. but this wasn't 

Pre-LaborDaystart planned for next yearS academic calendar 
by Jim Cammyn "As soon as we're contacted, we'll amount of time on the calendar 
Starr Reporter back them up," Scheible said. each year." 
Student Body President Ed 1\lorelli added, "Last year we did Byrne also hopes to establih a Byrne predicts a pre-Labor Day the project on our own. We tried a. system that will allow the calendar telephone survey last year. The disucussion to run by itself in years
sta1't' for the academic calendar 
Administration likes something on to come.
next year. "I really see no way of avoiding paper." Byrne concluded that "if we wait 
Byrne also agreed with Gassman until it becomes an issue, its too
a pre-Labor Day start," Byrne said yesterday. He based his that "the Academic Council late to start doing our homework 
shouldn't spend an inordinate then."
prediction on the date of the holiday. Sept. 6. "The only way to resolve the 
Monday night intruder 
issue is for each side to give a litt­le." Byrne said. "The administration pushes very hard for a certain number of 


enters SMC dor1n r 
days," he continued. "The students think that number is 
An unidentified man broke intoarbitrary." 

the fourth floor of Holy Cross HallHoliday time is usually con­

at St. Mary's early Tuesday

sidered first and the number of morning, St. Mary's officials saiddays is secondary to most students last night.
Byrne thought. 
Byrne agrees with Academic 
Commissioner Mike Gassman's Although details of the incident 
plai1 to utilize the Hall Presidents are sketchy, one eyewitness 
Council to learn. students' ideas on reported that the man entered her 
the situation. "The HPC survey room and approached her bed 
appears to be the most efficient "with outstretched hands." 
nwthod for student input,)' Byrne St. Mary's Security is in­
said. vestigating the incident. 
Bill Scheible and Pete Morelli, 
who proposed an alternative to the The incident occurred between 3 
present academic calendar, have and 3:30 a.m. Jill Moore, Holy 
not been contacted by Byrne or Cross Hall director, reported that 
Gassman for the project this year. the man may hev entered the 
On White House lawn 

Ford, Hirohito meet, 
WASHINGTON <AP>-President Ford stood on a red-carpeted platform just a few feet from the Japanese Emperor whose forces he fought against 30 years ago, but. all the talk was of peace. 
Hailing the full restoration of Japanese-American friendship after the "tragic interlude" of World War II, Emperor Hirohito began a state visit Thursday amid elaborate ceremonial trappings. 
On an overcast day, with about 2,000 persons witnessing the welcoming ceremonies on the White House lawn the frail, 74 year old monarch said: 
"Our peoples withstood the challenges of one tragic interlude, when the Pacific Ocean, symbol of tranquality, was instead a rough and stormy sea, and have built today unchanging ties of friendship and good will. 
"I fell immeasurably gratified by this happy development and look forward with great an­ticipation to the future of our relationship." 
President Ford, who served in the U.S. Navy, made no reference to the war, dwelling instead on the current era of peace and friendship between the two countries. 
"At a time when the benefits of cooperation are mutually ac­claimed, your Majesty's visit symbolizes and strengthens the ties between our two peoples," Ford said. 
.
. 
·' 


~'•J'\t.-.-....... .-::-•.. ' 
Full military honors were 
rendered for the Emperor
h 'ed b h' ·r
w o,accompam y 1s w1 e, 
Empress Nagako, arrived here after a two day private rest stop in Williamsburg, Va. 
Hirohito is the first Japanese monarch to set foot on the American mainland. 
Ford met the Emperor last November when· he became the first incumbent President ever to visit Japan. 
After the 25-minute ceremony, the imperial couple and President and Mrs. Ford went to the White the case. On several occasions I was out of town when there was a meeting scheduled," Francis related. 


Dr. Michael Francis 

fourth floor through the fire door. The fire door was not locked. 
"Frankly the fire door was open and we think the girls should be more responsible about opening those doors," Moore said. 
Moore said that Holy Cross resiennts have been urged to leave fire doors locked and to lock room doors at night. 
Stevie Wernig, asistant to the vice president for Student Affairs, recommended, "They sould keep their doors locked. Unfortunately, it's not safe to leave the doors unlocked." 
This year's SLC may be able to schedule meetings more efficiently due to the smaller size of the council, he said. 
James P. Danehy, prof. of Chemistry, will replace Francis on the council, according to Paul Conway, chairman of the Faculty Senate. Danehy was the third faculty representative elected in April of this year. 
However, the reduction of 24 SLC 

i··riMM·p·JiRTY·s·f<5itE···!
!OPEN : MON -SAT 9am -11 pm! 
• SUNDAY 12noon -11 pm :
•
•
• COLD BEER,WINE, LIQUOR, !
•
•
•.. GORMETFOODS i i 3114 S. 11 St. NILES, MICHIGAN i 
:_ "BIGGEST LITTLE : 
~: •••~.19.1!.Qft.§].9.1Jh.I.tf.Ml~.111 SiAt\:••••; 
Six Concert Package 
SOUTH BEND SYMPHONY 
Student Prices $10, $8, $6 

NOW ON SALE 
Student Union Ticket Office 
TODAY -FRIDAY 



CTOBERFES 

IS COMING!! 
WATCH FOR DETAILS... 


r----------------,
I wINTERIZE I
INSTANT CREDIT 
~ SPECIAL!!!

I DI(Krs (,...., BACK FLUSH I 
I J I ~~· .P COOLING SYSTEMI I ~ ~~~~~~ PRESSURETEST SYSTEMI 
members to 15, made by the Board of Trustees last spring necessitat­ed the seating of only th first two representatives. 
This year's other faculty members are ex-officio member Robert Kerby, vice-chairman of the Faculty Senate; Michael J. Crowe, prof. of General Program; and Carole E. Moore, assistant prof. of History. Sexton is com­
(continued on page 4) 

_I Oi~~btor ALL HOSES I
E. CORBY

talk peace1 ~giwRECKER & 1 aTs ANTIFREEZE 1 
~I ROAD SERVICE 0 "y s 5 05 I 

House Red Room for tea and I Moro:TUNE-uP J--·--.~--~ Nl 1 · 
conversation. BATTERY SALE fRO I
In Washt'ngton, the Emperor and 1 BRAKE SERVICE--= ---· DIAL M1 Empress are staying at Blair _AL~~kNr --234-0707 5 1 to $5 0 FF House, the presidential guest I D•dc Krul. ·Ow"'"' MON.-SAT. 7am-llpm I 
house across the street from the 1102 So. Dend Ave. 
I 
SUN. 9am-9pm
White House. South Bend, Ind 4661'1 
They will visit five other major (DISCOUNTS American cities and several PLICABLE TO smaller ones during their two weeks visit. 
A minor note of discord surfaced during the welcoming ceremonies here when a red plane trailing a "Save the Whales," banner ap­peared in the air over the city. 
•SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just 
mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
except home football game weekends. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 
.•• ,. " v ....... ,.,........ ............ ...-.... "".. .., .... ,..,.'1..... -.•,_:-..... ,...
~ 

--. -" ---···:-"'--.
~ ~ ­



In lecture Wednesday 
Conrad condemns isolated government 

...! 
I' 
I 
by Jill Truitt Staff Reporter 

"The government doesn't need to sit isolated; the government needs to get out to find out what the difficulties and problems are of the people," said Larry Conrad, Indiana secretary of state, Wed­nesday afternoon in the Law School lounge. 
Conrad, "former aide to Sen. Birch Bayh, spoke informally to 25 people on "Lawyers and Public Policy." 
"Here's the kind of hard choices you're going to make in this country. You have fuller em­ployment lower taxation and a 
Senate committee reveals 
Tax levelled at extremists 
WASHINGTON <AP) -A controversial tax enforcement program officially aimed at po­litical extremists was expanded to include such figures as col­umnist Joseph Alsop, former New York City Mayor John V. Lindsay and actress Shirley McLaine, the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee said today. 
More than 11,000 individuals and organizations were carried on roles of the Special Services Staff of the Internal Revenue Service, said Sen. Frank Church, D-Idaho. 
Established in 1969. the Spe­cial Services Staff was intended as a "special compliance group .. . to receive and analyze all available information on organ­izations and individuals promot­ing extremist views and philo­sophies," according to an IRS memo cited by Church. 
IRS Commissioner Donald C. Alexander, who ordered the program abolished in Au ust 
.. VIEWS ON BEAUTY' 

On Conditioning 
Conditioning and hair care cannot be over emphasized! Good conditioning takes placeinside the hair shaft, (called the cortex). In terms of texture, appearance, and general health of the hair, the state of the cortex is reflected in the strength and structure of the hair. Too many "so called" conditioners merely coat the hair shaft, making It feel smooth. However, they do not treat the internal strucyure for long lastingresults. 
The products we use to condition hair correct the problem where It should be corrected, at the cortex. This type of conditioning, and the conditioner used, take professional knowledge and trr'nlng. 
AT VIVIAN'S, we have that knowledge and training, and recommend, REDKEN, FERMODYL AND COR­TOPLEX, all highly respected products In our profession. 
Sponsort>rl b~ 

203 N. MICHIGAN Ph. 232·2194 

clean environment and you're going to have a choice of two," 
Conrad. · 
Conrad set up 1n !!ldiana tax program in 1972 whi~h included the abolishment of the inventory tax. Indiana is the only ~t~te that still has a business inventory tax, according to Conrad. 
"They -didn't get rid of the in­ventory tax and everybody else has. They socked it to us with" another sales tax and some of us are of the opinion that it's the most regressive tax you can have," 
C d t ted
onra s a . Conrad became the youngest chief counsel in Senate history at 26, in 1963. He served on the con­
1973, told the committee that money order valued at more his staff withheld details of the than $1,000. p'rogram from him for nearly Under the other, the Central four months after he took office Intellgence Agency supplied the in May 1973. IRS with the names of all 
It also was disclosed that: American citizens traveling to 
-Two other IRS programs North Vietnam so their tax re­have been terminated as im­turns could be audited. proper. -During 1974 more than 8,200 
One, Project Mercury, in­taxpayers' returns were pro­volved a secret report to the vided to other government IRS on every Western Union agencies. 
Danehy possibly on SLC 
(continued from pagel) new to me," he commented. pleting the second year of his two­Ed Byrne, SLC acting chairman, year term. also commented on Francis' resignation. "I would have liked to
The SLC held a closed, informal see him stay, but I understand his meeting Wednesday night with Fr. 

feelings. He had wanted to resign

Theodore Hesburgh, university 
last year," Byrne stated .

president. 
, "He had lukewarm feelings 
Danehy said he was told of the toward the SLC. Now that he is resignation today. He assumed he director of graduate studies in will take over immediately as government, he's really strapped represen ta tive. for time, It was a trade-off bet­
Danehy stated that he served on ween the SLC and the graduate st­the SLC two years ago, as ex­udies. officio member, because he was "I'm sorry to see him go. I vice-chairman of the Facultv would have liked to work with Senate at the time. "It's nothing him," Byrne added. 
Escort service criticized; self-defense to be taught 
(continued from page 3) 
escort guard waited until " some girls were assembled at the gate before he would walk them across campus. 
"The escort service is totally inefficient," Bergeson remarked. 
She added she has met with James Roemer, dean of students, about women's safety. As a result~ Roemer "isgoing to talk to guards about the treatment of women," Bergeson said. 
Jones pointed out there was a safety meeting with the freshman women during Orientation. At that meeting, Arthur Pears, security chief, "gave a sincere promise of the excort service," Jones said. 
People must be patient because 


stitutional amendments sub­committee which drafted the 25th amendment, .to the Constitution. Under this amendment, the President moninates someone for . vice-president, Congress then takes the nominee thr~ugh hearing confirmation proceedings. It.then conducts an election and votes, 
Conr~d explained. . 
T~Is amend_ment was ess~n.hal durmg the NIXon-Ford transition, C~~rad revealed. 
. If the_re would ~ave been no vice president, and If there ~oul~ 
have bveen a vacancy, I thmk It 
ld h t h"
wou ave orn t IS country apart," Conrad said. Conrad lost the 1972 democratic gubernatorial race, but was 
of the limited number of patrols." she stated. 
Kathy Maher, executive director of the Legal Aid and Defender· Association, noted an escort service sponsored by a community group is often very beneficial. 
According to Pears, Notre Dame St>Curity has had a film about self­protection on order since the beginning of September. This film 

will  be  shown  in  the  dorms.  
"We  must  set  it  up  with  the  
rectors  and  hall  commissioners  

after the film arrives," Pears said. 
He mentioned the film is "very controversial" and "quite educational." Pears said Security Personnel will be on hand after the 

showings of the film for discussion. 
elected secretary of state in 1974 after serving as Bayh's campaign manager from 1962 to 1970. 
Bayh, an unannounced presidential candidate, will con­centrate his campaigning outside the state, Conrad revealed. "He will be making a declaration soon and will have to go to new market places," Conrad said 
iiJ~r alnlonial Jancakr ~oust 




:.10 
''Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
~:::::~::=:=:=·:===:===:=======::::::::::::::=:=:======::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::w 
:;:; 35 Vi1rieties of Pancokes ::: }Ch1ckr-n Steak Sandwiches :~:t Friday Nites: Perch Dinners/ 
:~:;:;:;:;:;::·:·:::::::.:·:·:·:-!·:·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
Your Ho..,t


SAYS: RENT OR BUY A NEW FORD AT 
JORDAN-FORD 609 E. JEFFERSON MISHAWAKA

• RENT-A·CAR I 
INDIANA 

SPECIAl DI~COUNTS WITH STUDENT OR FACUlTV 1.0 

Conrad predicted Vance Hartke will win re-election in the senatorial race. '"He knows where the people are and what they're interested in," Conrad said. "I think he'll win it." 
"People are not concerned with the big overriding issues, but what's happening right here," Conrad concluded.. 


-1 
Friday, October 3, 1975 the observer 5 
AdditionaI security measures ................................................ 
! RETURN-of the DRAGON :
could alter American politics • • 
: see Bruce Lee & Chuck Norris battle : 
Arnold also suggested that alt-
b)· Barbara Breitenstsein 
~~~~~o~~ ~ster girl, you think, 'I,i in the a rena of death! ! ihough a controlled, internal crowrl Staff Reporter situation might involve limiting This thr~at does not seem to : d b : 
A dramatic change in American the citizen's right of privacy, this deter presidential candidates,. sponsore y • 
strategy which the administration
politics as security measures on however. "The power and prestige : : politicians are increased could be has adopted now, seems to be the of the office is so great," Sterling. the Notre Dame Karate Club • 
best possible solution to the
the result of the recent assassinat­said, "that I don't think we'll ever : : 
problem.

ion attempts on President Ford, have a lack of aspirants." • SPECIAL -Demonstratio-n •
"It could have a major effect on
according to two Notre Dame Sterling suggested that as a : : 
·the right of privacy in a limited
professors of government. solution, Congress should pass a • Before Each Show • 
"The pressures of American way," Arnold stated, in that using resolution to authorize the Secret: : 
metal detectors on the crowd
politics push politicians into the Service to place more restraints on • • crowd," commented Associate during Ford's visit to Chicago T­the President, such that "the : Oct. 2nd & 3rd :
uesday, could by just a step to
Prof. Peri E. Arnold. "This is Secret Service could do whatever • •
,ward more limitations
ingrined into American politics." is necessary to protect the: : "Tightened security measures "If they were President" as long as he is • ENG AUD 7 9 & 11 •·
willing to submit that easily," he
such as those taken to protect Ford fulfilling his constitutional duties. : ••._•••_._.__.•••••••~••••••••;•_.•-'••~•••••_....._. •••:
continued, "the danger is there."
since the Attempts on his life, have "It makes more sense for the
resulted in reduced contact with "The Secret Service would give 
,

President not to unneedfully go int­
the people," Arnold stated. more restraints to the President if 
o crowds," offered Sterling, "than 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS i
"It may force the President not backed by an authoritative body,"
to require surveillence over every
to play the game of throwing Sterling concluded, that body
possible kook."
himself into crowds," Prof. being the Congress. "They should Carlton Sterling predicted. "That place restrictions on the President, 
fo~V'c-JEWELERS ~ 
The motivation behind the at­
campaign style could be cur­not on the people."
tempts is mere to attract public at­tailed." 
~~SINCE 1917:tention than to personally attack
"It could make politicians what Because Ford cannot stop from 
0

Ford, in the professors' view. "It
they are· not," Prof. Arnold cont­"the pressing of the flesh,"
just became the thing to do," S-
Downtown South Bend 1 
-~­

inued, "but they want to stay security will be ''.hard," Arnold 
Town & Country Shopping C~nt'er • hreat of assassination could force "We've got a real tolerance for Ford away from the crowds would 
alive." He suggested that the t­terling said. concluded, but, to "Keep a guy like 
Concord ~all, Elkhart ·srackmonds. Niif!s I(
politicians to resort to televison violence now," Arnold explained. take an important part away from 
. "' ­
y:·s fOJ'S fOI't fOI I fOI'I fOI., fOI I fOI I fOS.'I · fOil'S f()J S
campaigns. "It means if Patty Hearst can his campaign." 
SPECIAL 10% DISCOUNT ON ALL MERCHANDISE TO NOTRE DAME 
In Northern Ireland 
Ten killed in renewed lighting 
& ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland car exploded on a country road The violence began before dawn ( AP) -Ten persons were killed near Coleraine, 60 miles northwest when a bar was bm.1bed near the Thursday in Northern Ireland's of Belfast. Police said they staunchly Protestant town of 
bloodiest spasm of sectarian believed the men were carrying a Hallymena, 20 miles north of HOUSE SPECIALTY 
violence in months, police bomb that exploded prematurely. Belfast. 
reported. Another man was reported killed The killings raised the known PRIME RIB Five were killed, two of them and several were wounded in a death toll from more than six years Double Cu sisters shot down in cold blood, and bomb attack on a bar in Killylea, of sectarian warfare intheprovince 
WED. &THUR., SPEC\ll
more than 16 wounded by terrorist south of Belfast. to at least 1,329-180 of them this 
gunmen and bombers rampaging Police headquarters reported t­year.
hat at least eight bombs exploded 
TURf & SURf
through Belfast, police said. Most of the victims in Belfastacross the province during the day. Four men were killed when their were Roman Catholics, police said. • filet 
$695 
Security authorities blamed most
Spanish police calling for of the attacks on Protestant ex­• lobster 
tremists who had been expected to
Pre1nier Ariasl resignation retaliate against last week's FRI. & SAT 
devastating 24-hour blitz by the 
''All You . SPECIAL 
MADRID, SPAIN <AP) More than 4,000 police officers mainly Catholic Irish Republican 
FROG LE CAN EAT"
Enraged police officers attending jammed the central court of the Army. 


s.... o.s_

the funeral of three colleagues military academy to hear a Roman 
slain by terrorists jeered liberal­Catholic friar demand tough anti­New procedure 
Fr-.c~tF~ ~6 95 
leaning Premier · Carlos Arias terrorism action. 
Navarro on Thursday and told him "These things must not happen set for dialing 
to quit if he had "any honor left." again," Friar Jose Lopez Ortiz 
(Formerly lnins) Phone 232-2494
Shouts of "we want justice, not said in his funeral oration. for NDandSMC clemency" and "justice yes, ''Judicial sanctions to curb these 
The dialing procedure for phonepardon no" continually disrupted crimes must be used. It is hard calls between the Notre Dame and services for the three dead and punishing work, but it must be St. Mary's campuses will bepolicemen, who were gunned down done." 
changed effective Oct. 6, 1975.
Wednesday morning. After the mass, scores of armed Fred Freeman of the NotreTears rolled down the premier's police and civil guards struggled 
Dame Personnel Department 
FrATcheeks as officers shouted: "You with official pall bearers, 
II

explained that the "growth in thewanted to open Spain up demanding to carry the three telephone system" necessitatedpolitically, and this is the price we coffins on their own shoulders to a the change.
are paying. If you have any honor military cemetery 12 miles away. 
After Oct. 6, persons calling •left, resign." Whipped up by nationally from Notre Dame to St. Mary'sOthers shouted "go take a trip," televised coverage of weeping will have to dial "4" plus the 4-digit 

WA lillY S­
and "let's see what action you'll women and screaming relatives at number. Persons calling from St.
take against the Pope now," a the funeral, scores of Spaniards Mary's to Notre Dame will have to 
HAPPY HOUR DAILY 4 -7
reference to Pope Paul VI's con­mobbed the coffins as they were dial "2" plus the 4-digit number.
demnation of the execution carried throu~h Madrid. 
Free cheese and crackers 
SPECIAL RATE
Arthur Kopit's 
Anna Cora Mowatt's ALL FOUR PLAYS 
Monday -Football Night
FASHION
INDIANS 
Student-:. traculty 
GIANT 7' SCREEN 
Oct. 10, 11, 16, 17, 18 at 8:00P.M. 
ND-5MC Staff 

Dec. 5, 6, 11, 12, 13 at 8:00 P. M.
Stepan Center 
$5.50 

O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Tuesday -Free Movies 9:00 
NO 
SWEEPSTAKES PRIZES
STUDENT SEASON 
Wednesday -Ladies' Night
SUBSCRIPTION 
1. 2 tickets to NO-Georgia Tech game
SWEEPSTAKES 
2. Dinner for two at the 
(complete disco format)
All NO and SMC students 
restaurant of your choice ($25
pu~c~asing season sub­
limit)
scnpt•ons will be eligible 
SMC
for a drawing to be held 
3. $10 gift certificate at local store 


SATURDAY FOOT·BALL SPECIAL 
of your choice.
Oct. 1O, 1975 before 


THEATRE
opening of first show. 
open at 9:00 a.m.
1975-1976 

BUY YOUR SEASON TICKET 
Our 1Oth Joint Season 
TODAY!!! 

Large Sausage Pizza $2.88
lnaicate 1st Fri., 1st sae.,
Arthur Miller's 
Tebelak and· Schwartz's
Thurs., 2d Sat. 2d Fri. date choice and mail check for 
carry out 277-0570THE CRUCIBLE 
amount due with stamped· 

GODSPELL 
addressed envelope for
Feb. 27, 28, Mar. 4, 5, 6 at 8:00 
April 23, 24,29,30,
return of tickets to: No. 
May 1 at 8 PM
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
SMC Theater, Notre Dame, 
2046 South Bend Ave.
Stepan CenterIndiana 46556 




, , 


The Observer 
on independent student newspaper 
Foundrd Novf'Dlb.r 3, 1966 
Terry Keeney  Editor-in-chief  
Tom  Modglin  Bu5oine5os Manager  
Tom Whelan  Adverti!iing Manager  

EDITORIAL BOARD AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; KPn Girouard, News Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil, Features Editor; Chris Smith. Photo Editor 
Ediloro.als: 281-3661 
N~w' 29~J~I~7~1S~------~8~u~''"~~~n~·~28~J~-1~4~71~--------------1 
Friday, October 3, 1975 

As long as the lights are out they'll keep gnawing away. 
P. 0. Box Q 
op1n1onI!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
A Question of ResponsibiIity 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii ed byr n e 
According to Indiana State law and the terms of our contract with the National Guard Armory Student Government is going to be responsible for all alcohol related incidents from the time this first Armory Dance is on until all the Dance's participants wake up in the morning. We made arrangements to secure insurance coverage for our liability in such a case. 
Despite our requiring bus patronage, our em;Jloying of over 50 peopletoinsure that hin·~on't get out of hand the dance, and our limiting ticket sales ,~.;:,450 tickets rather than the customary 1100, the insurance company determined on Tuesday, that Notre Dame Students attending an "Armory" dance· were too great a risk for them to take. That .was a busine&.::. decision requiring elementary cost-benefit analysis, ours is a far more complicated choice. 
There are many benefits to be obtained with this Armory Dance: -for the first time since my freshman year, 950 students will want to assemble under one roof for a single social event. -The Dance will be the primary focus and alcohol will be served, there will be nothing harmful (in the short range) about alcohol. 
-Students will not have to travel long distances in fact, they won't have to drive totheArmory, drastically reducing the possibility of accidents after the dance. 
-We will get a chance to showthatwe are mature adults fully able 
to drink responsibly while having a great time. There are also many risks involved: -Alcohol is a drug capable of inducing various states of euphoria-­
unfortunately, while in certain states of euphoria some individuals think destruction is "funny". It is a tragic irony that this drug which can help things be very pleasant, also can cause a lot of pain and suffering. 
-If we blow this chance to show that we can conduct ourselves in a responsible and adult manner then our arguments favoring reduced legal age for consumption of alcohol in Indiana and asking for individual Halls' determination of their own party regulations will fall justifiably on deaf ears. 
-The civil liability of Student Government for alcohol-induced actions which damage persons or property is legally unavoidable­the actions of one irresponsible drunk because of our inability to obtain insurance coverage could jeopardize the fiscal ability of Student Government and the Student Union to provide any more programs and services during the remainder of the school year. 
There are your cost-benefits, but we are not a business concern; we are students like yourselves. We intend to sponsor the Armory Dance but without your help it 
was unbecoming for two reasons. holding females from SMC <ana could be the last such dance, in fact, it could be thelastactivity we
Open Letter The first is that in no way does this though merely implied, wherever sponsor this year. Here is what you can do: 
present my own self as a they may exist) up to ridicule, it -Take the free busses ;>rovided-you can't get in any other way so 
responsible person and as a wasn't called for and only shows this is a moot point. 
to ND-SMC member of the prestigious Notre your immature, backward attitude -Eat plenty of food for dinner before the dance and lots of pretzels 
Dame Community. Secondly, the about women. <they're free) during the dance. 
act, whether you realize it or not, is To you and to any of your -Know your limit for 12 oz. cups of beer and stick to it-remember 
a reflection on the entire Notre sympathizers, I implore you to get how you feel in the morning when you don't. 
Ht>ar Editor Dame Community. Sure, it was back to reality and restrain you -If your friend is getting blown away, take care of him or her, 
What does it feel like to disrobe very funny to some, but it was oth­fantasies--we don't need your kind they'll thank you in the mornin~ for it. one's self in front of sixty thousand erwise to others, not only trustees, hanging around anymore. -Remember that after the dance is over and the buses have taken people? What does the stripper administrators, faculty and John A. Kenward yop back to campus, if you then drive somewhere to eat or go to think of himself the following day? spectators but also to many another party, as providers of your"first drink", we're still civilly 
J<:ditor-in-Chieftain, Dillon Flash 
Whatever possessed him to do such 

students. liable for vour actions. 
a thing? These arejusta few of the You might now be asking, "Why Prrss What I'm trying to point out is that if you get drunk at the Armory 
many questions that I have asked did he write this letter, was he Dance this Friday night"you're just hurting yourself,"you'remyself in the past week and forced into writing it or what?" In endangering the lives and property of your friends, you'retruthfully I have not found the all sincerity the decision to write N.D. jeopardizing our chances of having other Armory Dances later in answers to all of them. was my own initiative and at my the year, you're undercutting attempts to alter state statutes and 
To set things straight this letter own suggestion. Many may not Leprechauns? 
university regulations and finally, you'll wake up feeling like youis not being written for the pur­believe this, but this is up to them. spent, the night inside of a cement mixer 
poses of glorying myself of the act In no way was I forced to write this which I performed at last Satur­by threat of disn1issal from the Bt'ar Editor: , of mind or small of body. in the October 1 issue entitled day's football game. This letter is University or any other severe I sometimes wonder how long Nevertheless the N.D. guy_fits . "SMC Turkey?" ' being written solely for the pur­action and this must be understood the Notre Dame Admissions both. The average height IS The article was HOPEFULLY pose of telling all the Notre Dame and accepted by all. • committee spends screening their somewhere around 5'7" or 5'8". written as a joke but I'm sure it Communitythat being the stripper Tradition lives ~ith N?t.reDame applicants every year. I didn't Remarkable how such a large ego can't be half as funny or as big of a is of no great significance and in a~d Notre Dame 1s tr~~lhon, but think it humanly possible but can be stacked so low. joke as its authors. The use of a fact, is very degrading. WI~hout the p~st, tr~d1tlon can~ot they've really done it. They have As for mis_chevious a~tio~s--turkey for St. Mary's mascot 
First of all, this act was not done ex1st. The stnpper IS now a thmg chosen the "elite" few in the U.S. remember seemg ther_n c~Imbmg would be completely inadequate. in a state of sobriety, it was of the past and I am saying that who directly resemble the Notre the walls of McCandhss JUSt for It really pains me to be critical of something that I know, had I been with that final leap the stripper is Dame Leprechauns. some underwear? the "sports enthusiasts from Notre in my right mind, would never dead, no longer to be r~~urrected. Let me clarify my thoughts on Anyway--this little elf upon Dame" because they are so have been performed I never once There are better _traditions to be exactly what a leprechaun is. capture will reveal the hidden SINCERELY interested in the thought of the subsequent events upheld and practiced and I hope The Greek translation for tr~asure. Tis says a lot for their "espirit de corps" of the S.M.C. 
that might occur, not only from the that all can see the truth in what I Leprechaun comes from two w_tll _power and courage of con-(not pronounced SMICK) com­administration but also from my say· words; "Lu" meaning small and VICtiOn. T~e moment the munity, but I feel I must get my 2 fellow students. Some people In conclusion I want to apologize "corp" meaning body. That's Leprechaun IS captured he cents worth to contribute so we might say "hogwash," what can to all those who were offended and about the way it sizes up isn't it? becomes so fearful of his safety must get it in whenever possible. students say? Well, when you to those people I may have that he squeals and reveals his You do understand, I hope.walk down the quads and people jeopardized by my actions. Random House says that a hidden treasure. For the most part If 1 may quote "SMC Turkey?"say. "Oh, you look better with your Name withheld upon request Leprechaun is a Pygmy, a goblin on. most of them the tre~sure is, if the statement "although not too clothes off," it makes you stop and or a sprite. For those that aren't ex1stant at all, so far h1dde~ t~at bright, is very aware of its place in think: is this the way I want to be clear on what a sprite is--it's a ~lost of the populace couldn t f1~d the pecking orders" is over­remembered, do I want this small fairy ... but that is a whole It even after they've been told of Its dramatizing the situation, just a 
identification to stick with me for Phallic Symbols other story in itself. whereabouts. trifle. Nice try, ya'11 but NO SOAP. 

the rest of my life? So go ahead guys--protect your
As for Webster·~ He believes it is 
Thert>sa Lewis
At this point some people are sweet surprises, we hear they're
a small mischievious elf who, upon 
saying, "Oh what a jerk, he is magically delicious ... but we're not
capture, will reveal the hidden
weak, he gave in to the ad­hungry. Night Editor: Daniel Sanchez
treasure.
ministraticn." This is not true at Dt"ar Editor: Finally the American Heritage Sonw Turkeys down the road' Assistant Night Editor:

all. You did not have to try to study Mary Janca
feels they are small cobblers. A ( Nanws withht-ld by request)and sleep the following day t­In response to the "volunteer cobbler being a clumsy worker or 
Day Editor:Margie lrr, Maureen
hinking all the time, "What did I do committee of sports enthusiasts factory reject. 

Flynn
that for, man I wish I could replay from Notre Dame," I object. After asking around the dorm I 

Features: Val Zurblis, Tom O'Neil 
thepast Saturday and take back 

A Turkey? Come off it 'names -found that most people feel that Two Cents Worth
what I d1d." Truthfully it was very Layout: Kathy Gallagher, Anne
withheld-upon-request', what are . famous Leprechaun is a small
hard to live with myself and to Reilly
you trying to prove with your all­unintelligent being who runsthink what I could ever do to patch too-obvious attack on SMC around the damp forest protecting • Sports: Bill Brink, Fred Herbst matters up. 
women? Your sexual fascism is his lucky charms. Exactly what Night Controller: Martha Fanning
I began to think after several showing, and it's high time people these charms are we may never I am an avid reader of P.O. Box 
people came up and congratulated like you got off of their inflated know. Q. The "letters to the editor" are Picture Screener: Chris S'ntlh 
me, "What is so great about what I usually very interesting and many Compugraphic: Chip Spina
phallic symbols and came to grips The attack---Funny how every 
did?" Then it dawned on me how of them quite humorous. I was
with their hangups. defination refers to small. None of Ad Layout: Pat Russell, Steveunbecoming an act it really was. lt Whatever your motive was in them say whether they mean small especially entertained by the letter Slater 

I 
Fr!!lay, October 3, 1975 
the observer 7 
Letters to a Lonely 
a champion overcome with wine 
reverend robert griffin 
One day recently, my mother, who, in the tapestry, ritual, stain glass, myth, 
later years of her life, has become a com­municant of Catholicisim, asked me a question that was bothering her. "Robert," she said, "has the Catholic Church fallen on rather shabby days?" 
'Not shabby days, Mother," I said, "only very confusing days." It startled me to think of the Church as being shabby. Shabbiness, for me, is a wino passed out on a sidewalk in New York City; he's physically shabby. morally shabby, though one does not like to judge. He's someone you don't want to get involved with; not at all like the church that you need to be involved with if you hope to be saved, so they say. In New York, if you see a body on the sidewalk, you can walk over it, or around it. You r.:an gaze at it curiously, or phone for an amoolance. You can pray for it, pity it. or be disgusted by it. You can draw sketches of it, or take it's picture. You can give orders for it to be removed, or you can try to charge rent. You can write histories of it, or predict its future. But one thing you never do with a body in New York City: you never, under any circumstances, get involved with it. Instead. you wait for the police to come and arrest it. They can take it to the cemetery; they can take it to the morgue; they can take it to a jail where it will be nourished and live to pass out for you on another day. But whatever you do, don't get involved. 
I don't think my mother, in asking if the Church is becoming shabbiy, is in danger of losing her Catholic faith: I don't think either one of us could. In fact, I don't think many people lose thier entire Christian faith. The problem with losing a faith that has been expressed for you in creed, hymn, painting, 
symbol. sacrament. sculpture, poem, novel chorus of "Jesus Loves Me", he will weep 
hunger and inequality 
During the course of this semester, I have been asked by many students, "What is the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition about?" Although the group has no official statement of purpose as of yet, it is safe to say that The Development of Human Equality in a Biosphere with Finite Resources is our goal. and the following progression represents a general consensus of its members. 1 l Man needs many resources from the biosphere to exist. 2l The supply of resources of the biosphere are finite, since the recharge rates and reserves of the renewable and non­renewable resources, respectively are limited. 
3) Consumptive economical and detrimental technological demands cause negative environmental impact by breaking-down and depleting renewable and non-renewable resources, respectively,· as well as by polluting the biosphere. This limits man's capacity to use resources to fulfill human needs in the present and future. 
4> Human consumption of resources is proportionately related to the per capita consumption and the population. 
5) On a per capita basis, a rich minority is doing most of the consuming; and on a per parental basis, a poor majority is doing most of the reproducing. The rich can depend upon resources for security to fulfill human needs; the poor cannot, they must depend upon their offspring. 
6) Nations are increasingly interdependent. due to the unequal distribution of the essential and limited resources. 
7) Presently, there is human inequality in the duration of time of each individual's existence. The life expectancy is much '-'er ,, and the infant and child mortality0 • rale is muc9 higher for the poor majonty than for the Aen minorit~. This is due to the inequality of resource distribution. 
8) If human equality is to develop in a finite biosphere in the present and the future, man must freely and universally create a world in which: A) reproduction approaches stable and stationary levels maintainable with existing technologies, with low birth and death rates such that the standard deviation from the increased average life mystery. of Gothic structure, is that the mind can never entirely empty itself of all the truth and beauty that can cause you to doubt the atheistic absolutes. If faith were expressed in theorems like Euclidean geometry. you could, without danger to the aesthetic self, dismiss the whole baggage of religion as completely irrelevant balder­dash. The mind is not haunted, if it is a 
"the materialist who denies heauen can be stirred.! by choir monks singing easter alleluias into immortal hopes of resurrected glory.~~ 
decent mind, by the theorems of Euclidean geometry; particular theorems do not keep popping up at special. seasons of the year to make you sentimental, or nostalgic for ehildhood, or reckless with credit cards in the purchase of gifts. But the atheist is constantly having to keep his head; a single bar of "Joy to the World", played on a Christmas midnight by a second trumpet for the Salvation Army, might be enough to reduce him to the religious condition of the most ragged shepherd approaching Bethlehem. The materialist who denies heaven can be stirred by chOir monks singing Easter Alleluias into immortal hopes of resurrected glory. A lapsed Baptist can be summoned to repentance by the sight of his mother's Bible; with a single 
b!l al sondej 
expectancies approaches zero; and B) consumption approaches essential and minimal negative environmental impact levels, throughout time. 9l The same resources that are used by the rich minority to perform abortions, carry on wars, and create non-essentials, could also be conserved and shared to develop human equality by assisting the poor majority to develop themselves. 
10) The rich minority can redistribute resources to the poor maj-Jrity by sup­porting efficient structures that promote 
integrated rural developmental programs •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••& 
that employ intermediate technology • 1 • through ~1Ultipur_J?OSe coope~atives. This • t week preuIew :
enables free, umversal, equitable and : U • ecological trade on an interdependent • : planet to develop.creatinghuman equality-: ' 


'J • 

11) This redistribution process can be done • b~ tom 0 nef : 
through A) the•public sector by politically : • supporting humanitarian governmental ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••..•• ...~••••••••••••••• 
bills, B) the private sector by economically supporting humanitarian private and multilateral organizations, and C) the public and the private sector .bY politically and economicaUy supportmg humanitarian trade. 
12) If all men are EQUALLY children of God; then perhaps,the priority of our time is the development of human equality in a biosphere with finite resources. 
After reading this conceptualization of man and the environment, one may question as to why we call our organization the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition and n?t. the Notre Dame Global Development Coaht10n. There are three fundamental reasons for doing so. 
First, starvation is one of . the most obvious manifestation of human inequality. Around 2,300 people die due to a lack of food every hour. 
Second, undernourishment and malnourishment adversely effect other 
hum~n conditions such as health, learning upon Reynolds' machismo in humping Dyan 
abilit~s, and the capacity to work. 
Third, it is basically around rural <agrarian) development that the strategy for creating human equality is centered. 
Hopefully it is through the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition that this un­derstanding of the world will evolve, be communicated to the community, and serve as a basis for community response. 
Except for this evening'S airing of Sleeper there is little to expect of this week's TV movies. Sunday ABC will be presenting Katherine, a close-up view of the fictional Katherine and her life story, from being an innocent daughter of wealthy parel)ts to a radical revolutionary of the 60's. This made for TV film, expectedly cliche and feminist in nature, is contemporary only because of the recent Patty Hearst publicity. It stars Sissy Spacek as Katherine, Art Carney as her father and Jane Wyatt as her mother on ABC Sunday. 
Next Thursday on CBS Pat Garrett and Hilly the Kid will be shown, Sam Pecken­pah's failing representation of that hist~ric and legendary confrontation. The movie depends heavily on sex and violence, and the cast includes Kris Kristofferson as Billy the Kid and and James as Pat Garrett. 
The other two movies to be shown are repeats: Burt Reynolds and Dyan Cannon in Shamus, a terrible film dependent mostly 
Cannon around a pool table; and The Train Hobbers starring · 1John Wayne and Ann­Margaret, who spend most of their time (and yours) looking for a buried gold treasure. The first can be seen Saturday on NBC; the second on Monday, also on NBC. 
Knute Rockne--All-American will be aired Tuesday at 7:00 on Channel nine, out of Chicago. 
his way home to the cross. Thus beneath all doubts, there are levels of the mind where childhood and innocence still live to betray us into prayer. 
For some of us contemporary Christians, it is not the atheist or agnostic who troubles our belief; our problem is with those who are friends of the faith. Last year, I read a book by a priest who wanted to demythologize the Lord, and re-interpret 
the Christ mythology into a religion with out magic. By the end of the book, we had forsaken the Virgin Birth, . reduced the healings of paralytics and blindmen to enlightenments and absolutions, accepted the resurrection of Christ as metaphor, and received as Savior a Lamb of God who redeems us by insights that can put a man in touch with himself as an authentic human being. Now these are indeed heady doc­trines, and I have passionate need to be authentic: but they are not the truths over which I would allow myself to be fed to the lions. The Lamb of God I need is one who takes away the sins of the world, not him who removes my alienation from self; which, for all I know, is what the sins of the worla 
lead to. 
Please understand: I am not attacking this priest or his scholarship, · his faith and sincerity, or the truths in his book that even I can recognize. For myself, I want to share the faith of Newman, Chesterton, Knox. as I have understood these men to write about fatith. I want to belong to the faith expressed in the Paradiso and in the stained glass windows of French cathedrals. 
I want the Eucharistic faith of the Corpus Christi hymn by St. Thomas, and the comfort of the Salve Regina when I lay dying. Above all, I want the Christ of the Gospels who trudged dry-footed on storm-tossed lakes; who, to please the faith of his mother, brought wine to the guests at the wedding, and who to rebuke the doubts of his friends, brought bread and fish to the crowds in the wilderness. I want the sun eclipsed in the heavens and an earth that shook with fear at the muted glory of the Son of God dying on the cross. I wanted the women comforted at the empty tomb, and Christ as a pedestrian on the road to Em-Specaals 
The first installment of a seven-part biography of Lady Randolf Churchill (Winston's American mother) will be one of 
I 
the dramatic highlights this week, a part of 
I 
the "Great Performances" series to be 
l
shown on Public television. Lee Remick 
j 
stars as this historic figure-head among 
~ 
women, the subject of several best-selling non-fiction works in the last few years. This jseries sounds like a promising and excellent departure from the cliche mediodramas jembraced by the television producers in the past. Recommended viewing. To be shown ~ 
l
Wednesday at 8:00 on 34. 

Also on 34 this week will be Shoulder to ; Shouldt'r, Part One, on the Masterpiece Theater Sunday at 8:00. This special is part 
of a six-part series dealing with the early struggle in England over women's suffrage. Excellent drama, documentary. 
Sports 

The TV NFL schedule this Sunday is: Broncos vs. Bills on 16, noon; B,..--· .s Vikings on 22, 1 p.m.; Redskins •·.... Eag' ·~· on 22 at 3:30. Monday Night F.x>tt-~ 11 ; feature the Cowboys vs. Lions on · . .) a1. 
The only college game to be shown wi •. .>e the Ohio State-UCLA match on 28 at 8:' {), On a final note, Sleeper,ca"' bee seen a tonight on Channel 28. 
maus. 

This, it seems to me, is the way the Holy 
Ghost has told us the story in liturgies and 
creeds, and doctrines and dogma, and the 
Gospel accounts more terse and wonderful 
that anything Shakespeare ever wrote; 
accounts too perfect for any man to have­
imagined, for no poem, no sculpture, no 
painting, no hymn, and no other book is ever 
the equal of the figure the Evangelist 
describe. As Chesterton wrote: "Every 
attempt to amplify that story has 
diminished it...The grinding power of the 
plain words of the Gospel story is like the 
power of mill-stones; and those who can 
read them plainly enough will feel as if 
rocks had been rolled upon them." 
Scholarship has its uses in adding lights 
and color to the ambiguities of the mystery 
of the Word made Flesh; and fool that I am, 
I am ultimately confused by the de­
mythologized Jesus. Then I have to go back 
to more familiar grounds; " ..in one Lord 
Jesus Christ, the only Son of God, eternally 
begotten of the Father, God from God, Light 
from Light, true God from true God, 
begotten, not made, one in Being with the 
Father." But if demythology is too poor for 
my taste, then Nicaea is too rich, and my 
faith cannot simply be a metaphysical feast. 
If only the demythologizers, or those who 
would give us a Christ without magic, could 
write as though they also believed in 
Nicaea, I could feel as at home with them as 
I am cheered at a reading of Chesterton and 
Knox. 

When my mother asked if the Church has fallen on shabby days, I said that these were not shabby days for the Church, merely confusing ones; and I thought of a drunken man sprawled on a sidewalk whom I didn't want to get involved with. I would not describe the Church as a drunken man, but the Psalmist is more bold in his similes than I am. "The Lord," he says, "awoke , as wakes from sleep a champion overcome with wine." 
Maybe that is what the confusion is all about: The confusion of a champion-or a church-awakening from sleep after being overcome with the wine of age and tradition. 
Maybe the confusion is all mine: not being a champion, I am trying, against the Lord's best advice, to put the new wine of doctrines into old skins. I have merely succeeded in bursting the seams. 
I wish I could know how Newman would have felt about this age, but maybe it wouldn't help. He belonged to a church that still prayed in Latin and forgot for over eight hundred years to invite her people t.'ven at the most solemn Masses, ever to drink the Christ-wine at all. 
r I>' 
,I 

\ 
'I ) 
~ 
\ 
l ( 
( 
'' 
( 
(' \ 
< 
{ 
' 
·' 
( 
) 
the observer
8 
By TERRY ANDERSON 
Associated Press Writer 

ALBANY, N.Y. <AP) -Au­thorities in northern New York were watching Wednesday for three persons, at least two of them women, who may be driv­ing from Montreal with the in­tention of assassinating Presi­dent Ford and visiting Japa­nese Emperor Hirohito. 
A Secret Service spokesman in Syracuse indicated the alert was prompted by a telephone l'all. But he said the supposed threat had not been substan­tiated any further. 
In Washington, a Justice De­partment spokesman said the FBI alerted its Albany office when the tip came in and agents there in turn alerted the New York State Police to watch for the blue station wagon. 
''All we're doing now is at­tempting to locate the car and l'stablish these identities. We don't know yet whether it's a \'alid threat," the department spokesman said. 
A U.S. Border Patrol spokes­Ill an in Champlain, near the Nt'W York-Canada border, said there was no evidence that the three persons had crossed the international boundary. 
He said the statewide law en­forcement alert advised officers 
Friday, October 3, 1975 

ROLLERBALL 
7:00. 9:30 F

1 
2:00, 4:30, 7~00. 9:30 5-S 6:45, 9:15 M-Th 

THREE SISTERS 
8:00 M-F 2:00, 5:00, 8:00 S-S 
_ 6:45, 9:15 M Th 

l?uile~ lluuse t=lix 
TWIN THEATRES-100 CENTER-MISHAWAKA-255-9575 
to watch for the automobile, bearing California license plates. It said two persons in the car were women. The sex of the third person apparently was not known. 
The alert said the three were l'onsidered armed and dan­gerous. 
Amtrak train 
Hearst lawyer: Patty not guilty of murder 
SAN FRANCISCO <AP) -A lawyer for Patricia Hearst said Thursday he's sure the once­rugitive heiress had nothing to do with any murder, although he said he won't be surprised if she is charged with one. 
Miss Hearst reportedly has been identified as the young woman who rented a garage for a getaway car used in a suburban Sacramento bank holdup in which a woman cus­tomer was shotgunned to death. Federal prosecutors say it's possible Miss Hearst and her revolutionary companions may charged with murder. 
"They're undoubtedly trying to pile up more charges against 

Good grief! 
her," attorney Terence Halli­
nan said in an interview. 
"I'm confident she was never 
involved in a murder and if 
they throw any murder charge 
at her, they'll never make it 
stick," he said. 
In Los Angeles, a county grand jury indicted Miss Hearst and Symbionese Liber­ation Army members William and Emily Harris in connection with a May 1974 crime spree in Los Angeles County. 
The indictments, charging three counts of armed robbery, six of assault with a deadly weapon and two of kidnaping, were expected to replace state felony charges previously filed 
It's Snoopy's 

twenty-fifth b-dqy today! 
from his first marriage. 
Schulz was an instructor at the Art Instruction School in his hometown of Minneapolis when he started the United Features Syndicate comic strip. It now appears in 1,655 papers. He still draws the strip with a fountain pen he obtained during his days as an art student. 
IF YOU WANT 
THE BEST : 
SPAGHETTI, PIZZA or SANDWICHES, THEN WHY NOT GET IT? 
YOU CAN AT : 
against the three. The Harrises have been held in Los Angeles since last week. 
Prosecution  of  the  state  
charges  against  Miss  Hearst  
would depend on  developments  

in the federal prosecution on a bank robbery charge here. 
The ties beween the SLA and crimes in Sacramento became stronger Thursday as the FBI confirmed that the Harrises lived in a rundown frame house near the state Capitol from February to sometime in June. 
Workshop slated for volunteers 
The office of Volunteer Services will sponsor a Leadership Workshop for all campus volunteer organization leaders on Sunday, October 5. The workshop will take place from 3:30 to 5:30 at the Old College and will conclude with dinner. 
"This workshop is geared at helping each of the leaders be more effective within their own groups and will also provide an opportunity for the various leaders to get to know each other," Fr. Tom Stella, director of Volunteer Services, said. 
Those dates coincide with the murder-holdup at a Crocker National Bank branch in subur­ban Carmichael, and the rob­bery in February of a Sacra­mento savings and loan office. 
And the FBI confirmed a San Francisco Chronicle report that federal law enforcement sources are positive Miss Hearst rented the garage used to house a stolen car employed in the Crocker robbery. The newsp\Iper quoted its sources as saying that was Miss Hearst's only known role in the holdup. 
But a number of other links have been reported between the SLA and the bank heist. In ad­dition to the fatal wounding of 42-year-old Myrna Opsahl, four 
other persons were stomped as 
they lay face down. 

Sources say the fingerprints 
of James Kilgore, an SLA sym­
pathizer, were found on one of 
the two getaway cars, and a 
green scarf similar to one wore 
by a female robber was found 
in the aJ>artment. 

An unsent communique from the New World Liberation Front claiming responsibility for the holdup reportedly was found in the San Francisco apartment used by the Har­rises. And reports have circu­lated that marked currency from the Carmichael bank was discovered in the Hearst-Yosh­imura apartment, although au­thorities have not confirmed that 

·ARMORY DANCE OCT . 3 8:30-1:00 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT 
Come You Fightin' Irish 
TO TOWN & COUNTRY H{FOR YOUR FAVORITE 








D WINES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
LIQUOR ·WINE 10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC 1.0. BEER· BEST PRICE IN TOWN 
VOLUME DISCOUNT -­FREE DELIVERY 
TWO  FREE  
LOCATIONS  DELIVERY  
Bock 

the_
GIUSEPPE'S 
5PARTA~5 Ber 

71 3 E. LASALLE SO. BEND 
Town &CountryShoppin_.c Center

PRIVATE PARTY ROOM 
Ph~ne 259-3262 

CARRY OUTS 233-C951 
1Q the observer Friday, October 3, 1975 
Beathard gets tryout with Bears 

CHICAGO <AP) -Veteran quarterback Pete Beathard will get a 24-hour tryout today at the Chicago Bears' Lake Forest training camp, according to General Manager Jim Finks. 
Head Coach Jack Pardee said Thursday's workout with the 33­vear-old Beathard was "in­
'nse." 8n L jOnbg6$le, the San Diego 
C. argers claimed quarterback Boi.:;'.)y Douglass from the waiv­er list Thursday, a day after the big lefthander was released by National Football League Bears. 
Douglass, 28, spent six con­

troversial seasons with the I " Bears and started his seventh ~ two weeks ago in a 35-7 loss to 1/ the Baltimore Colts. He was 
'' 
drafted by the Bears in the sec­

' 
ond round in 1969 after a stand­out collegiate career at Kansas.

·~ 
Douglass was replaced by

~ 


SMC tennis team

1 
is third in state

~ 
by Jasmine Malvezzi

l 
~} A strong St. Mary's team cap­~; tured third place in the State L Tennis Tournament in In­~· dianapolis, September 26 and 27. ~. Number four Sin_gles-LynnI Griffin '77, and number two 
Singles-Louise Purcell '78 both ~ moved to the semi-finals before \ suffering losses to Indiana ~ University. Number three ~ Singles-susan Tyrrell '79 also 
moved into the semi-finals, but 

~ 
was stopped by a loss to Purdue. Barbara Timm '78, Number One ~ \ Singles Player, advanced to the 
quarter finals but was beaten by

~ 
~· Indiana University. In doubles play, the team of Jean Barton '79, and Kelee Brogger '79,
~ 
moved to the quarter finals, while

~' 
Shelia Finneran '76 and Ann

~· 
} Houser '76 won in finals of con­
solation play. Led by Coach Mark Peterson, t­

)1 
~ 
he girls improved their fourth 

,. 
,, place record of the 1974 State T­» ournament. St. Mary's Tennis T­' eam took third place behind In­
) 
diana University, the second place team. Purdue won the Cham­~ pionship. 
l 
l 
,·. ,. 
t 
v 
~ ~ 
) ~ 
~ 
l' 
~ ~ 
r 
~\ ~ 
STARTS TON IT E

'' 
p 
v 
~· 
~ 
J 
l ( ) 
r' 
...: 
; 
,,
.. 
~ 
) 
i 
~ 
~ 
j; 
u ,.. MON FR I: 7:00.9:20P.M. 
third-year man Gary Huff in running back Walter Payton. last week's 15-13 win over the Pardee .said another _play­Philadelphia Eagles. erstepped on Payton's right 
Thursday's team workout, ankle after Payton fell while spent preparing for Sunday's throwing a block. trip to Minnesota to challenge Pardee said Payton's injury the unbeaten Vikings, was mar­was treated with cold com­red by a minor injury to rookie presses and he should be ready 


The Irish Eye 
(continued from page 12) 

for one point, Miami would be undefeated this season, so give them the edge, even at Lafayette. Redskins by 6. 
West Virginia at SMlJ: The Mountaineers are a surprise team, but the game is in Dallas, and they may not like the Southern hospitality. We'll find out this week if they are a good team for an Eastern school, or a good team. Mountaineers by 3. 
Missouri at Michigan: This would be a nice way for the Wolverines to rebound, and with some of the pressure gone, they may have an easier time doing it. Oddly enough, only Alabama has had a tough time scoring against the Tigers-, which is encouraging for Michigan's meager offense. If the Wolverines' defense can hold a potent Tiger attack, they can regain 
some prestige tomorrow. Michigan by 6. 
Upset of the Week: UCLA over Ohio St. The Bruins lost a few believers 
last week when they were tied by Air Force. But quarterback John 
Sciarra is real good, and UCLA beat a good Tennessee team out in LA two 
weeks ago. And Woody Hayes' Buckeyes have been known to have 
trouble in the Coliseum. 
Last week; 11-2 (3 ties), .846 per cent. Season: 31-10 (5 ties), .756 per cent. 

The Story Of College Football's Greatest Coach As told By The Men Who Played For Him by John D. McCallum and Paul Castner 
WE REMEMBER ROCKNE is far more than a book only for sports fans. It is for everyone who believes in per­fection and the struggle to reach that goal. Knute Rockne 
was many men; a fascinating mix of vigorous activity and talents. He was a no-nonsense man with the highest of standards; making every minute of every hour count. 
Rockne has been dead for nearly 45 years, and there have been many books in the past ... so why another book? To share his spirit, ideals, determination and unfor­gettable personality with younger generations not lucky enough to ;>ersonally witness this legend. And to rekindle the neglected feelings of pride and accomplishment en­joyed from a job well done. 
No other book has been able to capture the intimacy of his spirit quite like WE REMEMBER ROCKNE. And none will ever again be able to relate the behind-the-scene stories and emotion as have the "Men of Rockne." 
This is THE book about the man, his philosophy, prin­ciples and the game he loved. And it's told by the men who knew him best. Get to know him well! II And make sure your children and grandchildren get to know him; men like Rockne are hard to find! 296 pages, clothbound ... $7.95 
----........
~~­
-,_ 
, ~ Send me copies of /""" WE REMEMBER ROCKNE, / no. 882, clothbound ... $7.95 
/ 

// / Name-----------------------------------­
,
',Address_______________ ', City ~~.... ' ', Statei ________________ / 
' ,"
', ~p ,
' ~~ 
-, --~ 

for Sunday's game. 
Beathard, an 11-year pro, saw action with four different NFL teams after he was drafted in the first round in 1964 by the Kansas City Chiefs. He was an All-American at the University of Southern Califor­nia. 
Beathard spent three years with the Chiefs and appeared in the 1966 Super Bowl loss to Green Bay. He was traded to the Houston Oilers in 1967 and led the Oilers to an Eastern Di­vision championship with a 9-41 record. 
In 1970 Houston traded him to the St. Louis Cardinals, where he spent two years before being traded to the Los Angeles Rams. He was traded back to 
~----~~~-­
~0:~ !i~MfiCA T NO INCREASE IN t 
l 
' 
t t
t 
l ' 

the Chiefs last season, where he played out his option and signed for the current season with the now-defunct Chicago Winds of the World Football League. 
The addition of Douglass to San Diego leaves the Chargers with four quarterbacks. The three others are Dan Fouts, Jesse Freitas and veteran Vir­gil Carter, also a former Bear. 
But Fou(s, picked to start by Coach Tommy Prothro, has been injury-prone and now is recovering from an ankle sprain. 
A spokesman for the Charg­ers, 0-2, said Douglass was ex­pected to fly to San Diego im­mediately. 
PRICES! ! t t t t t t 
_! 
,' 
// 
NOW ON SALE
/ 
// 
2nd FLOOR 
N.D. BOOKSTORE 
?--. 
SAT SUN: 2.00·4:20-6:45· 9:05P.M 

< 
. J I ,I r .. 

~ .. { .... I f •. ,. I .'I .. • ., . '·'
. 1 I •,.•('" ... , '-' . . . . . !
i . . ;, . •. '

" .-. ' . 
.......-• J ­
~ ··#'¥1trt,. !:'." ..·~J~t..-............,.. ..... _
I, ... -~~ . ~--~ ; .·~· ....-... ~·-·;·,.······ -.......~ .. :..·:;..· .. · 
!'" , •• 
....... \ ..... '
~ ~········~···~~ .... 

~ 
Irish host Michigan State -----------------­
Eastman (bruised shoulder) and games of the series. Over the last -----------------­
(continued from page 12) 
Randy Harrison (ankle injury) are four years, the Irish have scored
the Notre Dame game," Devine 

-CHECK OUT­
all listed as ready to play in the only seven touchdowns agamst
remembers. "There was never 
game. the Spartan defense, winning 14-2 
any problem getting the players 
in 1971, 16-0 in '72, 14-10 in '73 and

IRISH ITEMS: The Irish lead t­



HOPS 'N SPIRITS
"up" for this game." 
he series with a 24-15 mark. The 19-14 last year. The game will be
Devine is faced with the pleasant 
-LIQUOR STORE-
one tie was the celebrated 10-10 telecast locally over Channel 16. 
problem of who to start at quar­
game in 1966. Devine is 11-1-1 Next week, Michigan travels to 
terback. Last week when senior 
against all Big Ten competition. East Lansing to face the Spartans 
BEER SPECIALS ON 
quarterback Rick Slager was 
Notre Dame has won the last six in a nationally televised contest. 
injured. sophomore Joe Montana 
SIX PACKS
stepped in and did a real good job. 

11 
"LIQUID 

"'It's not really that important," .EIGHT PACKS 
;~ r}REFRESHMENTS
Kelly naDled asst. coach
Devine said of the quarterback 
TWELVE PACKS 
.~.: --'.....-·!fTO ENJOY AT
situation. "In fact, it's possibly 
better for the team to prepare not SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) ­knowing who will start." 
Right tackle Pat Pohlen is a Ed Kelly, head track and cross doubtful participant in tomorrow's country coach at Niles Mich. High contest. Harry Woebkenberg will School, has been nemed assistant replace Pohlen, who is suffering track coach at the University of from injuries to both ankles. Ted Notre Dame. Burgmeier (bruised leg), Jim Kelly, a native of Philadelphia, Stock <bruised thigh), Tom Pa., and a Notre Dame graduate,
f'..........................................................................................'J!
I I  N.D. STUDENT UNION & PARTNERS RAINBOW  Ii  
I  Proudly Present  ~  
~  ~  
i  JETHRO  i  
iI ~ I  TULL IN CONCERT  ! ~ I ~  
~  SATURDAY, NOV. 1  ~  
~  8:00 P.M.  ACC  ~  
~I  TICKETS:  6.50, 6.00  I  
I  NOW ON SALE  I  

l ............................................................................................~ 
will concentrate on sprinters, hurdlers and long jumpers. 
Joe Piane, head track coach at Notre Dame, said of Kelly, "I think he'll really aid our program. He'll do a fine job with the sprinters and jumpers. He's an intense guy and he's got a fine record at the high school in Niles." 



& KEGS r. Y)) YOUR NO ( )-~VICTORY PARTY" 
812 E. LASALLE SOUTH BEND 289-0606 
HAVE ATAILGATE PARTY BEFORE THE BIG GAME 
For an outstanding Tailgate Party ­take along a Bucket or a Barrel of "finger lickin' good"~ 
.chicken, potatoes and gravy, salad, hot rolls and dessert. Even if you are not going to the game, it's a great day to "Visit the Colonel"_ 
r·~~'C---:;:--~ 
,. J, ...~ ~.......,,....,, \ I• -..,:-'.-~ 
~ ' ' 
I< ; \..'}.
I< 

Kutuek11 fried CkiektK® 
Western near Mayflower -52044 U.S. 31 N. near Brick Rd. 4207 S. Michigan -1640 South Bend Ave. 2612 LWW, Mishawaka 
Will do typing, experienced. Term WANTED papers, Manuscripts, etc. Ca II: 233-8512

CLASSIFIED ADS

Desperately need 2 GA Mich. Sate tickets. Call mike after 6 pm at Typing -35 cents per page. Call 288-0088 Dan 272-5549 
No trick; necessity. AMSU tickets, Sport parachuting lessons. Learn
Ot>Sperately need 2 GA Michigan Others speak of sex and death. All FOR RENT
consider trading USC tlx. Call State tickets. Call Mike or Ann the safe way, 6 -8 hrs. instruct ion.
I need are 2 Southern Cal. tickets.

Brian 1A61 after 6 pm at 272-5884 Jump the same day. Contact John
II 'm Mary at 6680_ Students or faculty, 5 rooms, Bronson 616·782-3500 or Larry
furnished. Security deposit, near
Need riders East to Philly leave T Need one GA Michigan State Enyeart 219-533-8219
Wanted: GA tix for Southern Cal. campus. 1002 Campeau St. Callhurs. Oct. 9 -Call Craig 287-3865 footba II ticket. Call Jean 548 6 
Call 6896 234-7925 

MEN! WOMEN! Jobs on Ships! Will trade 2 MSU tix for 2 USC call Need 5 USC tickets and 1 M SU American. Foreign. No ex-
Desperately need 2 GA MSU a nd 1 Rent my upstairs 2 rooms SSO. 233­
234-3277 Mary 1285 perience required. Escellent pry.
Southern Cal. ticket. Pat 158 3 1329 Keep trying 
Worldwide travel. Summer job or Need ride to Chapel Hill N.C. for career. Send $3.00 for information.
Neall travel companio~:~ to tour

NO -UNC game. Call Ed 1642 DEAFAX, Dept. E-1 Box 2049,
Europe next semester. Call 1425 FOR SALE 

Port Angeles, Washington 98362Students earn while you learn partNeed ride to Chicago Fri. Oct. 3 
time contact work, afford extra Need ride to St. Louis weekend of For sale: two tickets to Rod
and back before game. Call Tom BEST PRICES IN TOWN!!
income. For appointment 68-4-4396 Oct. 11 -12. Call Cathy 4436 Stewart. Regular price. Call 1600
1039 Jennifer's 119 W. Colfax 11: ro
or 1608 5:30 Mon -Sat.

Need 2 Michigan State GA tix. Call

Need 3 GA or Student MSU tix 
277-0088 after 6 pm STEREO EXUIPMENT-m ajarbadly. Call Ellen3468 Need 2 GA MSU tickets. Call Alice brands at substansial savings; all Quick Loans! Morrissey Loan 
5494 Fund. Up to S150. 30 days, 1
Need ride to Milwaukee Oct. 3 or 4. factory sealed under manu fac­
Wanted: 4 GA tix to any home percent interest. Basement of La
Help with gas. Nlark 1162 turer's warranty. Elliott En­
game. Bob D. 2 0:55 Need 3 MSU GA. Call 8772 Fortune. MM-F11:15-12:15
terprises. 233-3769 after 3:30 pm Need 14 Southern Cal. tix. N arne
3 GA tickets needed for Michigan "Gay Guide to Notre Dame-South
your price. Mary 272-4733 after 5 2 Rod Stewart tickets for sale.
St game. Call ::!18-3073 Bend," $1.00, at Pandora's or write
pm. Row 4 Section B. Call Dave, 287­
Needed: 2 GA USC tickets. Call GSND, Box 206, Notre Dame.
2219
Mike 6939

Need 4 Beach Boy tix. Kim 272­
Need two USC tix. Call Murph 287­

9566 PERSONALS
0742 Quality Stereo components at 2 0-40Wanted: 2 or 4 MSU GA tix. Call percent savings. RMS Audio 321 s.
Drew 3272

Michigan State Tix needed. 1 GA Wanted: Met Lemans pa rty.
Need 2 G A or student USC tickets. Main. 288-1681 12-7 pm
or Student. Charlie 8698 Connecticut blonde, blue e yt>S,
Call John 272-6930 

veteren arian. skier. mild
For sale: 2 GA MSU tickets. Call
Need 2 MSU tix. Call 288-10A8 Wanted: 2 GA tickets for Georgia pneumonia;
Mike 3251 

Tech. Will pay $$. Help! Call RSVP Need 4 GA MSU tickets. Call Jim Mary 5135 Tom 1877
For Sale: 10 speed bike $50. Call277-0067 
Paul or Larry 3207 
-----LOST A NO FOUND Students who wnat to learn the Need 6 MSU GA tix. Call Bill 8686 Alma Mater -let an Iceman teach
For Sale : Stereo, Sony HP 61 0 A.
Need two GA tickets to Southern 
you how. Watch for further
20 watts RMS dual turntable, 12"Cal. Ca II 7471
Will sell 2 MSU tix if I find ride to Found: '77 class ring in Carroll deatils.
2W speakers. S350. Paul 813 1Purdue Oct. A. Call Marti 4569 Hall. Call 5103
Need two GA tickets to Michigan 
9C: Double 0 is alive and we II in
For Sale: 1971 Gremlin-X Big -6,
State. Call 7471
Need 2 Beach Boy tix. Call Martha Lost: gold bracelet in vicinit y of Camden.
Stick, 20 MPG, Sharp. 283-30 93 
8130 or 1715 Library, N ickies, Corbys. Call Rich Alumnus will pay more for A 7871 Betsy: Where are the windows?
6th row, floor seats for Rod 
Need partime work? Car usc tix. Call Jim at 8904 for info. Love, Dan
Stewart. Call 272-5133 
preferable. Call 777-1221 Lost: a lighter with map of Ger­
---------Two Rod
Need 2 or 3 GA tickets to M SU. many near Library. Call Mark Happy Birthday, TBW (alias Ann).
Stewart tix. Lower Arena at cost.
Call Mark 1475
wanted: 1MSU and 3 USC tickets. 289-892A We'll put out the sign. Don't you
Call Bob 272-1400 
Call Dan 1219 forget the teddy bear. Need 2 GA tickets for MSU. Will Lost: Eyeglasses. Lost out side Your Roomates in the Gheto. Desperately need two Southern pay SS. Call 289-8352 or 288-0 952 stadium after Northwestern game. NOTICES 
cat. tix. Call Bob 3665 Call 6845 and ask for Ellie. Happy 21st. birthday Lynda s arb The "bookeeper and Marcy " 
Dt>Sperately need GA tix toM SU. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs.
Wanted: 2 GA tix for Pitt Game. Lost : 1 tan cardigan between
As many as 6. Call Steve at 8 624. 
Donoho 232-0746

Call Lisa, 8089 football stadium and To whom it may concern. Bob
Will pay ss 

O'Shaughnessy Hall. Please call Ward Is returning. Need 4 GA tickets for Mlch igan Debby 8152 6 CCJ'lcert Package; South Bend
Girl Needs ride to Lock Haven, Pa. Happy birthday, Lil, Love, Lee
State. Call Joe at 287-5113 Symphony. Student Prices: $10, $8,
going east on Pa 180 after football Lost: Glasses -pink frames with and $6. Now on sate at Student Wanted: 2 USC tickets. 7812 game this weekend. Share ex-pink lenses. Reward. Phone 7607 Union Ticket Of flee. Keep smiling Gib. Fltz ">es. Call 6886 

Friday, October 3, 1975
12 the observer 

Irish face MSU in crucial contest 
I~ 
1 
l. 
;. 
I 
' 
1 
~ 
~( 

I 
' 



'. 
; 
.'• 
: t 
by Ernie Torriero Jackson has netted 246 yards in 65 ccarries while scoring four
ln what has long been one of the touchdowns. 
most inspired defensive football Meanwhile Baggett is the spark­rivalries in the annals of the plug of the MSU offensive corps.

t'Oliegiate game, the Fighting Irish The 6-0, 187 pound artful dodgerof !\otre Dame and the Spartans of paces the club in total offense with ;\lichigan State come together l:l5 yards rushing in 39 carries and tomorrow for the 40th time to 181 passing on nine completions in renew an acquaintanceship that 18 attempts.

dates back to 1897. Kickoff is Anchoring the Spartan defenseslated for 1:30 p.m. EST tomorrow ~as been senior right tackle, Gregin Notre Dame's historic Stadium. 

Schaum. Schaum, a team co­
"My scouts and holdover 

captain, leads the squad in tacklescoaches are very impressed with with 26, including two-for-losses,l\1ichigan State," Notre Dame and two fumbles caused. At thecoach Dan Devine explained. 
other tackle slot, Larry Bethea has"They are a very physical ball club looked real good, with 24 tacklesand that's what concerns me most. 
five of which went for losses. ' Wl' have been able to win against 
Linebacker Paul Rudzinski
State in the last few years middle guard Tom Standal and

primarily because of great 

linebacker Kim Rowekamp aredefensive performances." 
some other standouts on theSpartan coach Denny Stolz, a Spartan defense. 
man who has never defeated Notre Although this is the first timeDame and whose team has not Devine has faced Michigan Statetasted victory within the shadows he is no stranger to East Lansing.'

of the Golden Dome in almost ten In 1950 Devine was named fresh­years, considers this battle with man coach at MSU, serving underthe Irish to be an especially im­the late Clarence (Biggie) Munn. 

portant one. 

Later he served as backfield coach"This game is very, very im­under Duffy Daugherty, where heportant to us," Stolz emphasized. Jerome Heavens will try to retain last week's The defense, meanwhile, will have it's hands full remained until taking the head job"It is a national prestige game. N-form when he led the game in rushing with 106 with a powerful Michigan State offense. 
at Arizona State in 1955. 

otre Dame will finish in the top ten yards. 
"I know the dedication of
in the country, perhaps win the week MSU Athletic Director Burt in Denver. downs in the first six-and-a-half l\1ichigan State players the week of 
national championship. It will go Smith was released by the Yet the Spartans will leave that minutes of play last week in the to a bowl game. Yes, this means a University. School officials claim all behind when they take the field Spartans 37-15 win over North 
(continuPd on page 11)
lot to us." Smith's departure has nothing to 
against the Irish tomorrow af­Carolina State. In three games,Michigan State enters this do with a pending NCAA probe of ternoon. MSU has won its last two contest amidst a wave of con-alleged football recruiting games, after suffering a 21-0 
Student hockey tickets
troversy surrounding its troubled violations at State. A hearing on shutout at the hands of the Ohio athletic department. Just this past that matter is slated for October 13 State Buckeyes, the number two­ranked team in the nation, in the
B iII Brink ~========:=:=:=:=:::===========::::::::::::::::::=:=~=~=========~===~===~=~===~=====~=~=~=:===:=~=~=:::::::::=================== on sale Tuesday-Thursday
season opener. Offensively. Michigan State is WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8 ­A total of 1,218 seats are

led by fullback-tailback Lavi 
9am -4pmavailable as student season tickets

The Irish Eye 
Jackson and quarterback 

for the 1975-76 hockey season. The THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9-9am­
Charles Baggett. Jackson, the 5­

season ticket covers admission to -tpm·:m:::=:=:::~:::~:~:~:~:=:=:!:!:~:~:~:~:~:~:=:=:!:::~:::::::::::::::::::~:::::~:~::::::::::::::::~. F0 0 tba11 picks II'~ ~1 ; ~btr~~ndf0 ~ pehei~ s t !~ n~~~~ the following 14 home games: Each student may present 
l\1ichigan <Nov. 14-15), Denver ONLY HIS OWN I.D. CARD. 
Last weekend's college football contests proved to be the clincher for touchdown romp against Ohio S­<Nov. 21-22l, Wisconsin <Den. 5-6), Students desiring adjacent seat~ some of the pre-season favorites, in what was an otherwise unsurprising tate last year, scored three touch­Colorado College <Jan. 30-31) must purchase their tickets at the slate of games. 
Michigan Tech <Feb. 13-14): same time. 
Both Mic.higan and Auburn~ ranked in the top ten at the beginning of the Basketball tix Michigan State <Feb. 20-21) and Prices are as follows: season, said farewell to national prominence. The Wolverines again 
Minnesota -Duluth <Feb. 27-28). NOTRE DAME STUDENTS foregoing their home neld advantage, could only manage a 
tie with on sale Tuesday 

These tickets will be on sale on a $14.00
Baylor. Coach Bo Schembechler is still trying to find the right offensive FIRST COME, FIRST SERVED ST. MARY'S STUDENTScombination. Auburn, on the other hand, proved that their winless record for One dayOn}Y BASIS at the Ticket $14.00 
was no fluk~, by keeping it winless. The Tigers had no easy task, facing Windows on the second floor of the MARRIED N.D. STUDENT­Tennessee m Knoxville, but it looks like departing coach Shug Jordan's ~tudent basketball tickets will go ACC according to the following S: STUDENT $14.00
farewell party is about over. on sale on Tuesday, October 7th for 
schedule: SPOUSE $21.00 
. O~laho":Ia l~arned t~at there is another team in the game with them, by all students who did not order a TOTAL $35.00
NOTRE DAME STUDENTSfmdmg Miami of Flonda only three points behind them at the end of their ticket last spring or summer. The AND ST. MARY'S STUDENTS: No season tickets will be soldcontest last Friday night. USC needed two good punt returns to stave off sale will last one day only. 
after October 9. Single game
a battling Purdue team, 19-6. Tickets will be sold to all TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7 -9am tickets are $1.50 for students.
Several lightweights gained more respect by retaining undefeated married, Law, graduate and un­records. Syracuse upended Tulane in New Orleans and West Virginia dergraduate students who wish to easily handled Boston Colle~e. ' purchase them. Only $21 bleacher 
FOR YOUR 
seats are still available. St.

Here are the Irish Eye's picks for this week: Mary's students may also order 
BACK PACKING 
Michigan St. at Notre Dame: The Spartans started off shakily, but have tickets on that date at a $25 price. gotten on tra~k, and Denny Stoltz says he will open up even more this The tickets will go on sale from 9 
NEEDS 

week. Th~ Iri~h always have trouble against MSU, but seem to somehow am to 5 pm at the ticket window on e~er~e v1ctonous. Tomorrow should be no different. Irish by 10. the second floor of the ACC. ~~1r Force-Navy (at Philadelphia): A traditional service academy Students purchasing a ticket then 
233-8383 

n~a~ry th~t h~s more tradition than import. Air Force looked good in will be issued a receipt which can ga_Im_ng_a ti_e With UCLA las_t w~k, so give them the edge. By 14. be exchanged for the ticket on a :\hssassappt at Alabama <Rarmmgham): The Tide has crept back into the date to be announced later. 
~.L SIERRA SPORTS 
top ten, after their opening loss and is ready to handle the Rebels, who are An extra home game has been ready to be handled. Alabama by 15. added on February 9th against St. 
.L 
2216 MIAMI 
Colorado at Oklahoma: Someone other than the NCAA finally gave the Bonaventure. This game is in­Sooners a tough time last week, and an undefeated Colorado team cluded in the price of the ticket at 
SOUTH BEND, IN. 
s~ouldn't prove any easier. Colorado won't be the only Buffaloes on the no extra charge. field Saturday, but they might get stampeded. Sooners by 10. 
0 0 

:\Ia ryland at Syracuse: Maryland is up and down and in-between <they tied 10-10 with Kentucky last week). The Orangeman were the Cin­
in the plush New Orleans Room 
darellas in basketball last year, and are on their way in football. They're 3-0 and probably playing above their heads, but they've got Penn St. 
George Graves 
B.C., P1~t and ~est Virgi!lia coming up to bring them back down, so they 
now appearing in the Mail Pouch Hoom 
better htt the heights agamst the Terrapins. Syracuse by 10. 'liami I Fla.) ~t Nebraska: The Hurricanes used up their upset chances last week agamst the Sooners, and Nebraska wins bigger all the time. Last week they ended T~xa~ Christian's national championship hopes, 





CAPER 
and they should handle Miami. Cornhuskers by 14. :\rmy at st.anford: This is the breather C!f the Cardinals tough schedule, 
(This weekend -no cover
so tt looks hke KP duty for the cadets. Stanford by 17. Florida at LS~: The Gator's offense ~ives them an edge, but playing in 
charge with student I.D.) Baton Rouge 1s always a plus for the Tigers. It should be a close one with Florida on top by 7. ' 
HAPPY HOUR Mon.-Fri. 4:00-7:30 
I>uke at Pittsburgh: The Panthers crushed William and Mary last 
LADI,ES' NIGHT Tues. 8:00-10:00
Saturday, but it didn't skyrocket them in the polls. The Blue Devils won't make it any easier. It promises to be close. Pitt by 6. 
MEN S NIGHT Thurs. 8:00-10:00 
Texas A&M fit Kansas St.: The Aggies have been reaping more than the 
PIZZAS, SNACKS soil, namely the profits of a finely~oached, powerful team. KSU is good 
EVERY MONDAY-REDUCED PRICES 
& SANDWICHES 

but Texas A&M is too tough. Aggies by 14. 
ON BEER AND BAR DRINKS 
SERVED ANYTIME J

Indiana at North Carolia St.: The Hoosiers inflated their ego last week by trouncing Utah (who'?), but their job gets even tougher tomorrow. 
Appropriate attire required for admittance 7 ft. TV screen for 
Despite the Wolfpack's poor showing in East Lansing Saturday, they 
Monday night football. should make IU look even poorer. N.C. State by 12. Miami (Ohio) at Purdue: The Boilers keep threatening to win, but then ~does George Wallace. Purude seems •capable. but just not able to put 
lfM.'~~~;ca'THE HEADQUARTERS A We• 
1 t together; they lost one they could have won against USC last week. But ~ .!.\-~-. . . · ..AIKMOit PLAZA, IRJSTOL ST. (ITPASS 111) ELKHART
" .
(continued on page 10) 




--~~---·---·­
-




