
OD The Inside 
Lewis Hall ... page 3 Hans Margenthau ... page 6 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 79 
Wednesday, February 12, 1975 
Post-Labor Day start 
Council votes on calendar 
At HPC meeting 
Faccenda discusses proposed drinking ·bill 
by Don Reimer Staff Reporter 

The Academic Council yesterday voted to return to an academic calendar beginning after Labor Day. The Council also passed several other guidelines for next year's calendar, including the placement of an extended break around Thanksgiving rather than at mid-semester. 
A proposal by University Provost, Fr. James T. Burtchaell to extend this year'~ basic calendar for three more years, was overwhelmingly rejected by the 
counctl. 

Burtchaell said that although he had favored a pre­Labor Day start. he was happy that the issue was finally resolved. "1\ly support for an early start was subordinate to my desire that we at the University have an academic calendar which is educationally supportive and commonly observed," he said. 
ThP tlniversitv Administration will formulate the dt•tails of the calendar in the next several weeks under 
the  guidelines  set  by  the  council  at  yesterday's  
mPt'ting.  
Opponents  of  the  pre-Labor  Day  start  cited  

widt•spread opposition on the part of various student and facult~· groups. including the Faculty Senate. In a poll conducted by the Student Government Academic Commission. 74 percent of the students responding and 75 pt•rcent of the faculty responding favored the post­Labor Dav start. 
:\ motioil that there be only one extended break per semt·stl'r was passed unanimously as was a second proposal stating that this break be placed around Thanksgiving. Among reasons cited by members of thl' I 'ouncil for rejection of the mid-semester break in favor of om• at Thanksgiving was the desire of many students to spt>nd this holiday with their families. 
Comnwnting on the Council's action, Student (;ovt•rnmPnt Academic Commissioner Jim Ambrose said. "l think debate on the floor was very encouraging and hl'lpful in getting the proposal through." 
"Tht• proposal was certainly not railroaded through and I think that the post-Labor Day start was what the students wanted," rf'marked Ambrose. 
Amhrost• also voiced his approval of the Thanksgiving break. "I personally am in favor of the lat<'r break because it is the more traditional one," said Ambrose. "Also. if we had a mid-semester break, I lwlit•ve it would come right at the Southern Cal Wl'l'kend." 
:\kl.aughlin approvt>s calt>ndar 

Studl'nt Body . President Pat McLaughlin also reacted favorably to the Council's decision. "I'm happy." said 1\leLaughlin.'"l think it was a good dt•cision. It was what the students wanted. as shown in the Student Covernment poll." 
l\lcLaughlin also pointed out the tremendous work on the part of many students. "The guys who conducted the calendar poll did a super job," said McLaughlin. "And the students on the Academic Council are really to hl' commended. especially Jim Ambrose." 
Student council member. Mark Seal, commented, ''I'm ,·ery happy about the post-Labor Day start as \WI! as the proposal of only one break during the semt•ster." 
1\lathematics Professor Timothy O'Meara, also a mPmher of the Council, also favored the early start and thl' Thanksgiving break. "I voted in favor of both issues." O'MPara said, "and I think my opinion is reflectt>d in mv vote." 
In rt>ference 'to the Thanksgiving break, O'Meara remarked. "I think that was the best decision, all things considt•red, to get the proper number of days in the semester." 
!\('W hom•sty code 
In a unanimous vote. the council adopted a new honesty code presented by Fr. Ernan McMullin. The proposal. formulated by a committee of the Academic Council. deals with both the conduct of examinations and violation procedures and applies to both graduate and undergraduate students. 
The docummt distinguishes three methods in which l'xams may bt> administered. The normal procedure is for a teacher to be sure his exams are adequately monitored; howt>ver. where a teacher can be assured othe integrity of work, in a small seminar for example, a monitor may be unnecessary. 
If a teacher has no such assurance, he must require from his students a more explicit form of adherence to honor principles. This assurance would be gained by distributing to each student at the beginning of the spm(•ster in which he ·pledges his honesty in I'Xaminations in the course. In order for this sytem to he l'mployed. all students must agree to sign the honestv declaration. 
( 'oncerning violation procedures, if a teacher discovers a student cheating, he must submit a written FR. JAMES Burtchaell, University Provost, and Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University President, discuss the academic calendar at yesterday's Academic Council meeting. (Photo by Paul Joyce). 
rt>port the honesty committee in his department. 
Thecommittees. which must be established in each 
departmt>nt. will hold a hearing on the case and make a 
ruling. 

If the decision goes against him. the student has the , right to appeal to his academic dean who will make the final ruling. 
!\lark Seal. a member of the committee which 
drafted the new code, commented on its features. "It 
gives the student the fairest possible consideration in 
disciplinary procedures." said Seal. "Also, the code is 
more positive now, in that it is directed more towards 
honesty than dishonesty," he noted. 
In another action. the council rejected a proposal 
offered by the Dean's Committee asking that the time 
limit for dropping courses be reduced from one week 
after mid-semester grade reports to five weeks after 
the beginning of the semester. 
Assistant Arts and Letters Dean Richard Thompson 
citt>d grade inflation one of the reasons for the 
proposed change. Waiting until after mid-semester 
grade reports allows the studentto see that he is getting 
a low grade in a course and he subsequently drops that 
eourse. Therefore he gets all higher grades, Thompson 
observed. 

One objection to the reduction pointed out was that 
the t>arly deadline would force students to possibly 
l'valuate their teachers poorly. Also many students 
panic after their first test when they still have a chance 
to do wPll in the course. It was cited that many fresh­
mm drop their courses too soon. 
The Council _granted a request, presented by Dean 
Bernard Waldman of the College of Science, for the 
Pstablishment of an undergraduate program in 
1\licrobiology. Proponents of the program cited the 
increased student interest in the life sciences as a 
n·ason for t>stablishmt>nt of the new major. 
b~· Lonnie Luna Starr Hepm·t.t'l· 

llniversity General Counsel Dr. Philip Faccenda last night discussed the limited liability drinking bill currently under eonsideration by the Indiana General Assembly. Speaking at the HPC meeting, i"accenda explained the new bill would Pxempt the l Jniversity from liability for underage drinking done without the knowlt>dge and consent of the University. 
l<'lanner President Frank McGuire asked l<'accenda if the University would be responsible "if it knew of a party where drinks were being served." 
Faccenda said the University "would be liable and would take action before anything happened." 
"The 'university' includes anybody who works for the University," Faccenda noted. lie noted that any RA who knows about a party would be required to take action. 
"If the HA is asleep and there is a party he is not aware of. however. then the University would not be liable," Faccenda stated. l<,accenda also observed that private parties held off university property would be exempt from University liability. 
The limited liability bill arul a proposal to lower the legal drinking age to nineteen are both being seriously considered in the Assembly. Faccenda noted. 
Also on the HPC agenda was a report by a committee assigned to re-examine the purpose and role of the HPC. The com­mittl'e was forml'd last week after Zahm IIall President Doug Cox cited HPC lack of din•ction and threatened to withdraw his hall from the HPC'. 
The committee report focused on the definition and purpose of the HPC. The report began with a quote from a former II PC constitution: 
The HPC. if it is to '" ... direct all of its dforts to the promotion of the wP!l-being of the Student Body of the University," must be responsive to the demands of thosl' that it represents. The voices of student concern divorced from political ambition must be heard. and it is only 
through  the  HPC  that these  voices  can  
pffectively be calculated.  
"A  llall  President  is  a  unique  

representative. No one single person is as dose to the feelings of a hall as the Hall President. A Hall President is not elected mt>rt>ly to serve as a social organizer for his hall: his job exceeds such periphery issues and demands that he be responsive to the needs of his hall community. And being responsive to such needs demands that he make them known. It is only through an expression of those needs by the Hall President that their real necessity be felt. 
''The expresssion of opinions by the HPC will not jeopardize the legislation of the St•nate <today extinct), but will only provide a strong voice on matters con­cerning llall Uft>....if the HPC is to stand as a powerful organizer of hall life than it must stand united in t>xpressing the views of those that it represents." 
The report continued with the definition and statement of purpose. To dispel any eonfusion in the conception of a service-oriented body. the committee drew up the following points in its report: 
''The Hall Presidents' Council is in­tPnded to be an open, service-oriented body. responsible to the needs and desires of the Notre Dame campus community. As such. it shall concern itself with the following challenges: 
I l To disseminate accurately any in­formation to the students on campus for any organization wishing to express itself to the Notre Dame community. 

2l  To  initiate  and-or  coordinate  ac­ 
tivities  between  and  among  halls  on  
eampus.  

:ll To assist any individual hall govern­ment in any way possible, whenever requested by a member of that hall. 
4) To invest in the Chairman the power to represent this body at any function where matters of hall life are concerned. 
5l To seek advice and-or information pertaining to any aspect of student life for any concerned party for which the HPC has the responsibility to recognize. 
(il To make specific recommendations pertaining to all aspects of student life, or any action thereof, to any group which the Council deems responsible for such ac-lion." 
The committee strongly advised the re­('Stablishment of the office of Secretary to alleviate communication problems in the Council itself and with other groups. The eommittee claimed the HPC should be represented on the SLC and that SLC is too large and should reduce its size. 
The report continued: 
"The committee also came up with certain recommendations concerning structure. First, we strongly advise re­t•stablishing the office of Secretary in order to alleviate obvious communication problems. both within the council and between the council and other groups. 
Secondly, we are aware that certain mt>mbers of the SLC feel that its mem­bership is too large to effectively handle concerns of the students. Subsequently, we suggest that · the HPC consider mdhods by which they can request representation on this body. Specifically, our idea is that SLC chop itself down m size to three from each group <Faculty, Ad­ministration, and Student Body). The three students might include the SBP, and one HPC representative from each Quad. 
At any rate, regardless of the future size of the SLC. we suggest that the HPC request ex-officio representation on the SLC. thereby granting us speaking privileges without a vote. This would obviously allow us to more quickly and easily communicate with Faculty anf' 
(continued on page ; , 
-

Wednesday, February 12, 1975
2 
the observer 


warld briefs 
NEW ORLANES (UPJ) -Police shot a man to death in the midst 
of Mardi Gras celebrations Tuesday and a 13-year-{)ld boy was 
fatally crushed under the wheels of a float. 
Laughing and drinking crowds had their fun, however, un­
dett•rred by the deaths or the deaburning of a seven-story landmark 
warehouse which plagued them with smoke and soot. 
LOS ANGELES <UPil -A $1,000 reward is being offered in 
television and newspaper advertising for information on the city's 
tt•rror killer known as "The Slasher." 
The newspaper classified ad was placed by Metromedia 
Tt'levision and a spokesman for KTTV said it has brought repsonse 
from hundreds of persons. 
N1<:w YORK -Martha Mitchell has asked for an early trial in her separation suit against former U.S. Attorney General John N. l\liteht•ll on grounds the drawn-{)ut dispute is creating psychological problems for their 14-year-old daughter, her attorney said Tuesday. 
BEI.i''AST -Police blamed Protestant extremists Tuesday for a wave of murders sweeping Northern Ireland and threatening to disrupt the fragile cease-fire of the outlawed Irish Republican Army. St>ven persons were killed in the past three days. 

an campus taday 
5 p.m.--vespers, evensong, log chapel 
6:30 p.m.--meeting, sailing club, rm. 204, eng. bldg. 
7 p.m.--concert, memorial concert for jim ward, spons by student govt., wash. hall. 
7:30 p.m.--lecture, "sister madeleva: president, poet, person," by sr. marla assunta werner, c.s.c., carrol hall, madeleva bldg. 
B: 15 p.m.--concert, david clark lsele, baritone; william cerny, plano, lib. aud. 
Sr. Madeleva subject of film to be shown today 
A special multi-media presen­tation, "Sister Madeleva: President, Poet, Person," will be shown at Saint Mary's College Wednesday, February 12 at 7:30 
p.m. in Carroll Hall. 
"More than a biography, this slide and sound show tries to capture something of Sister Madeleva 's personality, her love of poetry, nature, young people, study, friends, and of God," said Sister Maria Assunta Wener, CSC, narrator and creator of the program. 
"This tribute to Sister Madeleva ten years after her death will be of interest not only to those who knew Sister, but especially to those who did not know her during her 77 years. 27 of which were spent as president of Saint Mary's College," Assunta continued. 

"Sister Madeleva: President, Poet, Person" is presented as part of the continuing American Scene cultural series, and is open to the public without charge. 
Lenten Mass setlor today 
Ht•v. Hobert Griffin, C.S.C., will initiate the Lenten season with the eel!:'bration of Mass this afternoon at 12:30 p.m. in the LaFortune 
Ballroom.  Ashes  will  be  
distributed.  and  coffee  will  be  
served after the Mass.  

!\lass will be said every weekday throughout LE:'nt at the LaFortune Ballroom at 12:30 p.m. 
TRI-STATE COLLEGE STUDENT SENATE presents 




STYX 
IN CONCERT 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14 
7:30 P.M. 
Scripps-Howard business editor tovisit St. Mary's 
Robert W. Dietsch, business and economics editor of the Scripps­Howard Newspapers, Washington, D.C., will visit Saint Mary's College in April as a Woodrow Wilson Fellow. 
Conducted by the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation wi~b funds provided by the Lilly Endowment, the Fellows Program brings representatives of business, government, and the professions to a select group of private, liberal arts colleges in the United States. 
Dietsch will be on campus the weeks of April 7 and 14, meeting with students, faculty, and ad­ministration. The purpose of the Fellows Program is to "improve communications between educational institutions and other institutions which play a major role in American society." 
A native of Cleveland, Ohio, Dietsch was graduated from Western Reserve University in 1941. After serving in the Army, he owned. edited, and published two weekly newspapers in north­
eastern Ohio. He was employed as a reporter on the Billings, Montana, Gazette in 1947, and returned to the East in 1949 to work on the Buffalo, New York, Evening News. He served in various editorial capacities with the Cleveland, Ohio, Press from 1951 until assuming his present position in 1961. 
While his primary professional 
interests are in the fields of 
business and economics, Dietsch 
has done other reporting for the 
Scripps-Howard Newspapers. He 
covered the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, 
the election of Salvador Allende in 
Chile, and travelled to Communist 
Cuba in 1969. He also reported 
extensively on civil rights and 
desegregation in the South during 
1965-71. 
The Observer is published dally· during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box· Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

NOW APPEARING 
SUDS 
AND 
LISTEN 



~Sfrula~
. NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS 
on U.S. 31 MtwHw lliles. So. B•d-FrH P'•rtinc-613-U50. 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 

S Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effett.r..."' any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219) 272-7555 
3 miles North of the Tollroad Cable T.V., Air Cond.l Phones. Send this ad to your parents 

KENS DEN 

BARBER-HAIRSTYLING 
-Award winning stylists 

-Unique atmosphere Rottler styIing products 
703 LWW (ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER) 
Phme 255-6500 Appointments eferred 

SPRING VACATION GRAND CANARY ISLAND CAPER MARCH 29 TO APRIL 6 $359 
PACKAGE INCLUDES:
* 
Round-trip Transportation Via TAI Airlines 

* 
7 Nights at 4-star Luxury Hotel; Air Conditioned 

* 
Welcome Sant'gria Party 

* 
Continental Breakfast Dally 

* 
Nightly Cocktail Party with Free Hors d'Oeurves and Half Price Drinks 

* 
Transfers by Deluxe Motor Coach to and from Hotel 

* 
Sight Seeing Tour of Las Palmas 

* 
Free Tennis 

* 
All Baggage Handling 

* 
All Gratuities to Porters 


DEPOSIT OF $100 DUE FEBRUARY 15, 1975

HERSHEY HALL CALL COLLECT 312 • 341 • 0286 
TRI-STATE COLLEGE ANGOLA, INDIANA 
BEVERLEY GRAY TRAVEL AGENCY 

ADMISSION: $4.00 DAY OF SHOW 
200 South Michigan Ave. Chicago, Illinois 60604 
Lewis Hall residents sub~nit statement to Lewis Foundation 
by Marianne Morgan Staff Reporter 
In response to the announcement of the conversion of Lewis Hall to undergraduate housing, Lewis Hall residents have written a statement to the Lewis Foundation. Sr. Theresa Sandok, principal author of the statement, termed the letter more as an "expression of opinion" than "a petition for a reversal." 
The statement signed by 100 of 135 Lewis residents expresses their disappointment and shock at the change. Sandok stated that the graduates' side was not adequately represented before the Lewises. 
She believes that there still is hope in the hall for a reversal, and "this letter is one avenue outside of talking to Fr. Theodore Hesburgh." 
Several graduates have not signed the statement. One reason according to Sandok, is that the problem is "concerned with the Administration. who made the decision. not the Lewises. Forty Lewis residents intend to appeal the move by writing letters to the Lewis Foundation in additon to the statement. 
Doctor Gordon. vice-president for 
.

Advance Studies, reacted to the 1ssuance of the sta~em.~n~ of the 
by Jeff Arndt Staff Reporter 

Election Committee Chairman Herb Thiele will hold a mandatory meeting for all persons interested in running for Student Body President or Vice-President, Sunday. February 16, at 10:30 p.m. in the Student Government Offices at La Fortune. 
"We will explain all election procedural rules sothat there will be no misunderstanding," Thiele explained. 
Beginning next week, potential candidates will circulate petitions seeking the 200 required signatures with respective ID numbers. These petitions must then be returned to the Student Govern­ment Offices by 1 p.m. on Friday, February 21. 
The Constitution requires only that Student Body President and Vice-President be "elected by 
WED. !Mclkmakl's Night­(check at Mcllonakl's for ilfo.) THURS. 8:00 P.M. FRI. 8:00 P.M. SAT. 12:00·4:00-8:00 P.M. SUN. 2:00 and 6:00 P.M. 

"A TRIBUTE to the scholarship of American nuns": With the dedication of Lewis Hall a plaque with that inscription was placed in Lewis Hall. Shown here at the dedication on August 10, 1965 are Fr. Hesburgh, University president; the late Mrs. Frank J. Lewis, donor of the hall; and Sr. Mary Ann Ida Gannon, BVM then president of Mundelein College and speaker at the dedication 
ceremonies. 
ment of studies, he explained. 
He views the construction of the graduate complex as the solution to graduate housing for men and women. The administration is aiming for inexpensive modular housing. Gordon claimed that six other options are open to provide temporary housing if the complex is not completed by 1976. 
He also emphasized that kit­chens will be installed on each t1oor in Badin and all rooms will be 
converted into singles. According
to several graduates the present
kitchens in Lewis will either be removed or "locked up" and the 
grad stu~~nts and said, It s a free • dining area converted to another country. He feels, the the dorm room or a parlor. These gradua.te students are only graduates speculated that their PXammi!lg t~e short-term aspects present kitchen facilities in Lewis of the s1tua~IOn and not the long-will be transferred to Badin. range benefits. Karen Bush, a Lewis resident 
He stated that there are looked at the change as move to get presently more grad students graduates off campus. living on campus as compared to Helen Conrad expressed the fact the number four years ago. that if the new re-zoning proposals <~ordon claimed that residentiality in South Bend pass, there will be of the graduate students does not few good neighborhoods open to play as an important role in their students. One of the main selling lives as it does for the un-points of Notre Dame has been its dergraduates. The graduate on-campus housing, she com-student spends most of his or her mented. 
time in their particular depart-Conrad also noticed, that if all of 



ICl r~rAPADIS 
PRICES· TICKETS ON SALE:
I

PERFORMANCES $l 00 $4 OO-$S OO NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
' 
majority vote by and trom the entire undergraduate student body." Candidates must run on tickets; that is, there may be no independent candidate for either office. 
Election procedure has been slightly altered. A special body consisting of one co-ordinator from each of the 21 residence halls along with a four-person executive committee will be charged with enforcing the elction rules. The executive committee includes Chairman Theile, Pete Gottsacker, Bill Keffler, and Darlene Palma. 
"The hall representatives will be selected by the executive com­mittee. We'll have the Om­budsmen help us choose," said Thiele. 
Campaigns will begin February 26 and run through March 3 at 1 
p.m. A $50.00 limit on campaign expenses is set for all tickets. The primary election will be conducted 
• • • BOX OFFICE
All Seats Reserved MON.-SAT. 9 to 5 
1 ~ PI'ice tickets for Notre Dame • 
St. Mary's students on these 
l~t'I'fonnances: Thursday 8 pm, 
Satm·day 12 noon, Sunday 6 pm. 
the Lewis residents move into Badin, excluding women who plan to move off campus there will not be enough room for the incoming 40 women law students as well as other woman accepted for graduate work for on-campus housing. 
One graduate suggested the use of Moreau Seminary or Corby Hall as alternatives to housing. 
Gail Gerebenics said the greatest loss would probably be the lounge downstairs . which has been used in previous years for the sophomore literary festival and different graduate functions. 
Both Gordon and Sandok con­curredin theopinion that graduate students spend most of their time studying and do not become too involved in extra activities unless they personally affect them. 
Gordon "welcomes a strong graduate union to work with." He feels that the graduate student could benefit more from the proposed food co-op and an off­campus housing list. He also pointed out that despite financial situations the teacher assistant stipends were increased this year and will be increased again the next year. 
SBPelection rules released 
on March 3. 
Students will be able to vote during lunch and dinner in their residence halls. Off-campus students can cast their ballot at the Huddle from 11:00 to 5:00. 
If no ticket receives a majority, a run-off of the top two vote­getters is scheduled for March 5. 
"This election is for Student Body President and Vice­President," Theile emphasized. "The SLC elections have been postponed. Anyone with questions should call at the Student Government Offices during the week at 12:30." 
Herb Thiele may be reached at 6413. 
Wednesday, February 12, 1975 
the observer 
3 
NOTRE DAME SAILING CLUB PRESENTS 
2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY TUES., FEB. 11 & WED., FEB. 12 
7:30 and 10 p.m. 
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM $1.00 
Memorial Concerts for Jim Ward 
Wed. -10:00 pm Jazz Night with NDJB, Erg's Finger Circus. N.D. Jazz Combo· and guest iazz musician Curtis Johnson at Washington· Hall 
Sat. 9:00 pm Campus Talent at Washington Hall 
Sun. 8:00 pm St. Mary's Collegiate Choir at Little Theatre of Moreau HaII Donation $.50 All proceeds to charity Sponsored by N.D. Student Govt. 

******************************************************** 
iC It's a shocking drama. Itis a film that matters and ~ that will remain in your heart."
ir: -JUDITH CRIST, New York Magazine 
i SUMMER 
~ WISHES, ~WINTER 

i DREAMS 
~ ~ CINEMA 75 presents 
~ Summer Wishes, Winter Dreams ! Starring Martin Balsam and t Joanne Woodward 
~ ~ Thursday and Friday nights in the ~ Engineering Auditorium. Shows ~ are at 7,9, 11 p.m. each night ~ 
iC ADMISSION IS ONE DOLLAR 
*******************************************************~ 
... I : 

• * 
! * 
. < i 
i ~.. i 
"A film to be treas-: ured by everyone! : 

JoanneWoodward : is superb. Martin i Balsam in his best * 
role and perform-: anceofmanyyears'! : 

-FR~ANCES~A~;:N~n~tst~andPress i 
WOODWARD . * BEST ACTRESS! : 
NewYorkFi/mCriticsCircle · * 
J 
f he O bS e~r,_v~e~r____w_e_dn_e_s_da_v_,_F_e_b_ru_a_r_v_l2_,_1_97_5 
• for Advanced Studies, addressed
Lewis Hall • an Hall
assembly of Lewis residents. He reminded us, as so

Meant for many administrators before him have done, that Lewis Hall had been built for graduate women
Whom? religious, that thegraduate women An OJH'Il letter to the Notre Dame 
were "the guests of the sisters," and that as "guests" graduateCh•·istian community 

women really had no claim on the As recently as the spring of 1973, continued use of the Lewis Hall !<'ather Theodore M. Hesburgh told facilities. What he and the an assembly of on-campus 
university have been unable to explain is just why suddenly thegraduate women that Lewis Hall "always" would be used for the 

sisters have no claim either. sisters. With his guarantee in 
mind, I refrained from taking any direct action when rumors As a graduate woman religiousspread early last December that my only response to what appears
the Lewis Hall Trust was under to be an amoral-pragmaticlegal scrutiny. Instead I relied on a decision concerning Lewis Hall is: few influential friends to remind 
"While I never have mindedFather Hesburgh of his pledge 

having one hundred twenty

to the on-campus graduate women 'guests' or more, I verymuch mind religious. This was a mistake, for being evicted from my convent." 
they did nothing. When it became That such treatment of the sisters 
apparent that a decision on the should have occurred at Notre 
1975-1976 on-campus housing was 
Dame is incredible. If Lewis Hall imminent, I phoned Chicago for was not a convent, it never should the number of the Frank J. Lewis have been referred to officially as Foundation. Because I felt such, the Frank J. Lewis Foun­obligated to extend to the dation had no right to claim that it university the courtesy of letting had built one, incoming graduatethem know my intent of contacting lay women never should have been 
the foundation and explaining to it sent letters by the administration the vital and extensive role that informing them that they were the Lewis Hall plays in the academic "guests" of the women grad~ate and social life of the graduate religious, and Father Hesburghcommunity at Notre Dame, I went ought not to have stated that Lewis 
first to one of the eight university Hall "always" would be for the use administrators involved in the of the sisters. housing decision. Father Jerome 
J. Wilson, Vice President for Sister Mary Anne Lynch, BVM Business Affairs, told me on Lewis Hall January 30 that I was wise to February 8, 1975 contact him before making the call. But when I asked him what I could doto keepLewis Hall for the Badin's sisters and the graduate women, he informed me that a decision 

Lacking

already had been reached and that it would be announced on February Tht> Frank J. Lewis Foundation 
3. While he made it quite clear that c-o Mr. Edward D. Lewis he could not divulge its content, he Expcutive Director suggested that it would be better to wait for its announcement, that I Dear Sir: might not be disappointed in its I must confess a real sense of provisions, that the hall had been futility in writing to you now, after built for the sisters. and that Lewis the University has made its was of special interest to him decision to convert Lewis Hall into (Father Wilson celebrates the an undergraduate residence. Still, liturgy here dailyl. The am­I fell confident that you of the biguity ot his response was in­Lewis Foundation who responded
tensified by his remark that I could so generously to the needs of barricade myself in my room if I graduate women religious at the was unhappy with the decision. University of Notre Dame ten Because I believed Father Wilson years ago, will listen sym­had the interest of the Lewis Hall pathetically to one such woman residents at heart, I replied that I now. would trust him. Not until I read in the February 4 Observer that the 
last member of the Lewis family I am speaking as a Sister, but not had given his approval of the just for Sisters, since the lay "switch" only within an hour of the women living her are equally university's official statement on affected by the decision. Frankly, the previous day and later learned we have no place to go. The 
that he was none other than the proposal to house graduate women Executive Director of the Frank J. in Badin Hall for one year is a 
Lewis Foundation, Edward D. totally inadequate response to Lewis, did ! realize that my t~ust our plight. In addition to the un­had been m•splaced and a precious certamty of whether provisions 
will be made for graduate womenopportunity lost. 

On the evening of January 5 Dr. in 1976, Badin Hall is simply not Hobert E. Gordon, Voce President conducive to the type of serious 
DOONESBURY 
IU£U, ITFEELS Jl/ST 


GI?£A7; MN! tuli'R£REAUYI
VP fOR THIS ONEI SOME OF 7H&SE BOYS HAVEN'T BE&N ONAt£RTSINe£ 7HE CUBAN111551/.E 0?1515/ ANO 
IU5'R£ Rli/IPY FOR. IINY­7HING-PERSIAN (j(jtf; I boo~ 
YOU NAMIJ IT! = 
f 

I ~. r 
) ,__,:z. ·...
L ~c lr_.·,,-~­

expression to the undergraduate women negating the possibility of any future forced removal of women from the University of Notre Dame campus, I inquired about the credibility of such assertions in light of Fr. Hesburgh's statement that Lewis Hall would always be used for the sisters. 
The concept of whether Badin Hall is in actuality a half-way house for the permanent removal of graduate women .from the campus was introduced as the administration has no definitive plans nor allotted funds available to support the proposed graduate complex. 
Finally, the question printed with respect to the use of Federal funds was posed in a hypothetical manner. Fr. Burtchaelf's reply did 
scholarship our studies entail. not indicate any present con­

Musical

Undergraduate halls surround it sideration of Federal funding for on all sides, amplified rock music the complex.blares out of windows, and the Dorms Although it may be a trivial 
adjoining quad is the constant Dear Editor: matter to correct the Observer scene of student games and As a current resident of Lewis regarding new representation, I 
gatherings. Furthermoe, Badin Hall I am very much disturbed by feel strongly obligated to the lacks kitchen facilities, meeting the University's version of principles of freedomof speech and rooms, sufficient book and desk "musical dorms". There appears of the expression of thoughts in an space, etc. -things which are not to be a tendency for University unadulterated manner, par­merely conveniences for graduate officers to refuse to look to the ticularly within a university en­students, but necessities. On the future until it is all but too late, and vironment. other hand, the alternative of then with their backs to the wall, to 
Candacia A. Hebda
seeking off-campus housing poses pull solutionsout of hats. This is a severe financial problem for surely the case here. The , graduate women, most of whom University admits that it w_ill not Notre Dame s 
are self-supporting, and Sisters undertake long range residence 
have thus far not been successful plans because of the alleged p d t 
in finding convents within con­fickleness of undergraduate ro uc 
venient distance of. the campus. housing preferences. Yet it admits that the vast majority of un­dergraduate parents are most An Opt>n Letter to the Notre 
Perhaps if we had been given the reluctant to allow their children to l>ame Community 
· opportunity to express our views live off-campus! On the other The recent decision concerning earlier, the loss of Lewis Hall hand, graduate students are Lewis is not merely a decision might have been avoided. Even supposedly immune to robbery and concerning one or even a decision 
now, a word from you to the Ad­rape, yet we are only too willing to concerning priorities in on-campus 
ministrators of the University live on campus for financial housing, but rather, it is a clear could possibly have some effect. reasons. The problem I am most indication of a species of thinking concerned with is not that I don't that can onlv damage the Notre Finally, I would personally like like Badin Hall, but I don't believe Dame community. The purpose of 
the future plans the University has a university is to llrovide a centerto express my appreciation for the 
many good things that I have for us. It is admitted that no one for the pursuits >f the mind, an 
knows where the money for the environment suitable to the in­experienced as a result of the "graduate complex" is coming tellectual life. If this is accepted,opportunity to live and study in from, and at least one Ad­then everything can, and must beLewis Hall. It has not only been 
beneficial to meacademically, but ministration official doubts it could sacrificed to insure the excellency, the company of other Sisters here be built on time were the money the undiminished vigor of that has been of great spiritual value to now in hand. Yet current Badin milieu. Instead, Notre Dame is 
me as well. residents are led to believe that showing not simply in the Lewis they will be ableto move into Badin decision out inits whole handling of 
Sincprely. 
Sister Theresa Sandok, O.S.M. again in a year's time. Are student housing and the im­
graduate women being indirectly plementation of its co-educational forced off-campus'? goals, a growing tendency to forget It is obvious that advanced 
the humanistic traditions of its students are second class citizens founding principles, and to treat here. Now it appears that we are the members of its own academic
Relocation to become transients as well. This community as numbers, per­
example of lack of good faith and centages, bodies. honesty ought to be remarked by But if finances are to be the only all facets of the Notre Dame consideration, the final criteria, if To My Fellow Members of the 
community. Somewhere along the statistics that give only the illusion NotrP Dame Community line the officers of the University of progress are to be our stan­
The recent administrative 
should realize that the rest of Notre dards, then think. Every business 
calculation to "relocate" the Dame is made up of people and concern must produce a product or 
women of Lewis and Badin Halls 
service. If the concern is to sur­made an ironic anticlimax to a talk, broken promises and pie in vive, it must be a quality product. 
that all of us are tired of double­

week of RIGHT-To-LIFE and 
the sky deals. At the same time a concern must TEA-AND-RICE brotherly love. It be willing to invest money to make seems that the upper echelons of money for unless it is willing toBarbara A. Cullom 
our community wallow in sym­spend money to maintain and 
pathy for their unborn or hungry 
improve the quality of its productbrothers whom they do not see. it will be overtaken by a business

Misquotes

How pharisaical then, that they 
that does. Notre Dame by can so casually un-home the changing the status of Lewis Hall,
hundreds of women students Dear Editor, 
by hesitating inambiguities on whom they do see. graduate housing in the future is 
These female "residents" are This correspondence is directed seriously damaging not only the not interchangeable parts but toward an official recognition that graduate students' morale, but human beings who have been the Friday 2-7-75 Observer 
constricting the convertibility of 
stripped of their hall communities, ,mi~quoted the question-answer their academic potential into 
their homes. The women affected series between Fr. James Burt­
intellectual output. The en­
bythis ex cathedra pronouncement chaell and myself. It should also 
thusiasm for scholarship and 
have furthermore been locked into acknowledge that my presence at teaching that graduate students 
a totally powerless position. Since the Badin Hall meeting was noted havp brought to Notre Dame is 
the "secret committee" solicited and subsequently permitted by being choked off, and the quality of 
no information from our Helen Gallagher, Rector of the education (Notre Dame's product)
"building" during the decision-halL 
which is not merely the 
making phase, one would question In my opening remarks at the 
classroom, but the whold 
wheher the "respect for life at all Thursday night assembly, I con­academic experience, cannot helpphases" applies to the graduate veyed Dr. Robert E. Gordon's but be affected for the worst. 
women at Notre Dame. inference regarding Fr. Bur­tchaell's unwillingness for a \'ery truly yours,Ca1·ol Hudson meeting with the graduate women. 
llt>len Elizabeth ConradLt>wis Hall In response to Fr. Burtchaell's 
by Garry Trudeau the observer 
Night Editor: Rick Blower 

Ass't Night Editor: Maggie 
Waltman 

layout: Martha Fanning, Brian 
Clancy 
Copy Reader: Ken Bradford Day Editor: Ken Girouard Editorials: Fred Graver Features: Norman Bower 

Sports: Greg Corgan, Bob Kissel Picture Screener: Albert Albert 
Ad layout: Bob Tracey 

Typists: Don Roos, Tom Modglin, 
M. Corr, Jim Landis Compugraphic: Phil Orscheln Night Controller: M.J. Foley, Howard Halle 

Wednesday, February 12, 1975 
the observer 
5 


vetville: a city within a campus
by dan reagan 

"This art>a was the site of 
Vet ville 

Married Students Housing 
Thanks to the Holy Family 
For the many blessings to persevere" 
A plaque just north of the library is the only reminder of an unusual period in Notre Dame's history. It commemorates a unique situation that grew out of World War II. 
In 1946, Notre Dame like other colleges, was inundated by married GI's returning for a college education. When it became necessary to create a temporary housing complex, Notre Dame developed "Vet­ville," a city within the campus. Since there wasn't a library or Flanner or Grace halls or WNDU. that plot of ground could be used for the army barracks of Vetville. 
The GI college man brought a new at­titude with him. Instead of being a 19 year old sophomore he was a matured, battle weary, 24 year old. He was unique. Prof. Tom Shaffer, now the Dean of Notre Dame's Law School, experienced Vetville from 1958 to 1961. He commented that being a GI "made us more serious about studying, but we valued being here. We weren't here just to get a piece ofnpaper and get out. We were more involved." 
The Set-up 

Notre Dame finally secured Vet housing in Mav of 1946. The agreement came be­tween the University and Federal Public Housing Authority. In September of that same year 117 two-bedroom apartments were made available for the Vets and their families. The 39 barrack-type buildings were moved from a prisoner of war camp a: Weingarten, Missouri. This meant that th­entir:e complex had to be dismounted, moved and reconstructed. New water mains, sewers and roads had to be installed. The Federal Housing Authority bore the 
brunt of the cost but the University also 
added $40,000 for many of the new in­
stallations. 
The apartment, itself, could only be 
described as being basic. The dwelling units 
consisted of a living room, two bedrooms, 
kitchen and bath. It was also equipped with 
"basic" furniture. 
From its very conception Vetville resembled a tiny city. It even had its own government. There was an elected leader , the mayor, who presided over an elected town council. The council consisted of six representatives from the six wards in the village. Each councilman was the chair­man of a standing committee. Included in the government were appointed positions. Such vacancies as Chairman of the Equipment Committee, Chairman of the Entertainment Committee, Chairman of the Highway Patrol, Secretary-Treasurer and 
Chairman of Sanitation had to be filled. 
The organization of the village was well taken care of but many of the basic problems remained unsolved. In 1948 a Welfare Council was formed to "coordinate, enlarge and intensify all efforts toward the welfare of each veteran, his wife and his child." New committees were formed, aimed at relieving some of the anxiety which was resulting from Vetville life. Areas such as publicity and com­munications were now taken care of. Dance, bridge, recreation, and hospital visiting were of concern to the council. 
The basic problem though was money. 
The average Vet received approximately 
$236 a month through government, his wife's 
earnings and his own. There was an 
average of $215 in expenses. Couple that 
with the extra expense of $197 for bringing a 
child into the world and there arises a 
financial crisis. The Welfare council set out 
to raise money for such situations, giving 
money to an expectant family. A major 
force behind the creation of this Welfare 
Council was the chaplain of Vetville, a little 
known priest by the name of Father 
'Theodore Hesburgh. 
The Chaplain 
The task of tire Vetville chaplain was an 
enormous one. He was the spiritual leader 
for 117 families all of which were in the 
same situation. Those were trying times, 
times when good counseling was of the 
essence and the man to talk to was Father 
Ted Hesburgh. 
Father Hesburgh tackled many of the 
problems by communicating through the 
village newspaper the Vet Gazzette. "The 
Word," as his weekly letters were entitled, 
was a spiritual boost to the members of the 
Vetville community. He wrote on almost anything, from birth control to women's participation in intellectual events. 

The issue of birth control is not just a recent controversy as Hesburgh addressed the problem in one letter in 1947, "Two weeks ago we saw what the church teaches about artificial birth control. We noted that our stand in the moral matter isn't something that the church made up, but the position stemming from God's word in Holy Scripture and tradition." It is also notable that the man who would later be the President of the University when women were first admitted was motivating the wives of Vets to become more involved. "I think that interest stems from a desire to keep from going intellectually stagnant. It's especially easy for you wives to get into a rut soon after you are married, to let the hubby do all the thinking, to merely string along with the opinions he formulates. Its easy to get to the point of thinking only flimsy thoughts that are generated by women's magazines, illustrated weeklies and racy modern fictions." 
Vet Gazette 

The community was best represented by its own newspaper the Vet Gazette. It, like the village, was unique. A dittoed paper, it consisted of such weekly items as Around the Town, a harmless gossip column, Bridge Game Reports, Kitchen Korner for recipes, and other assorted news information pieces. It organized the village, kept people interested and announced social events. 
Humor evolved out ot the Gazette (as it was first known, later it would be The Villager, Vetville Herald and Villette) Take for example the Peeping Tom Patrol. The village had one. In a 1947 issue of the Gazette the following ad appeared: "The 'mayor has issued an emergency call for volunteers to form patrols in an attempt to bring to an end the window peeping that has become too frequent in Vetville. Turn your names into the council, fellows. Co­operation, no peeper ... Let's get him." 
Another entity was Babysitter In­corporated. It wasn't grab yourself a date and come to the party but rather grab yourself a babysitter. The babysitters were students from the campus who usually worked for the meager fees of freedom of the icebox. 
The Vet Gazette was also a great promoter of parties. "On the subject of parties, Vetville is again preparing to pack up and head for American Legion post 50 on West Wayne Street in South Bend. The plans for this next shindig are being formed. 
The date has been set for August 13, just following exams. We ought to be able to tear this place down all the way this time. Even without Hooley." 
New "inventions" were constantly being publicized. Such strange things as vacuum cleaners, "a unique creation, a master product embodying the cumulated knowledge of twenty~ight years of in­ventive genius, laboratory research, engineering skill and precision." and $167 Frigidaires were demonstrated for the Vetville families. 
The Vet Attitude 
Through all the trials and tribulations the Vet of Notre Dame had a fantastic attitude toward the situation. Dean Shaffer felt that two reasons made Vetville thrive. First, it was cheap, or cheaper than any other housing. It was $30 a month rent plus water expenses. "People still had to scrape pennies to pay that amount. So you could imagine what would happen with today's rates." A second reason was that there was a "fine sense of community." 
It is this sense of community upon which many ex-members of Vetville dwell. The morale kept the community together. It was a community of young families, usually poor families. Yet hardly a one regrets the experience. Prof. Shaffer said, "I'd do it again in a minute. It was a good life, not luxurious but a good life." 
The times were hard but the life was fun. The barracks were occasionally cold, the money was sometimes short and family arguments arose, but the comradery always carne through. Father Hesburgh stated this in his final letter to the Vets as chaplain of Vetville in 1948, before he moved on, "I'll never forget some wonderful moments of crisis when the village came through to help others in trouble. It's hard to say how many times I've been edified by the growing spirit of comradeship and community working together." 


transylvania sans dracula 

"Romania is a developing country, maybe 50 or 100 years behind the United States," a message my host was to repeat many times. 
''But it is so rich, you cannot believe it. Only now are we beginning to develop Romania for Romanian people." 
Quarrelling with these figures, while exaggerated, is not easy after seeing how the people live. In the countryside, or even in the proudest of Socialist consumer achievements, the bloc apartments, life is comparatively primitive. But after less than one hundred years of independence, two world wars, and the post WWII leaching of its resources by the Russians, "Romania for Romanian people" feels at least a little more comfortable than anything previous. 
Venturing into the countryside to visit the relatives in Transylvania was my chance to see the cultural gaps growing to chasms. What would be considered rural poverty in America constitutes the median standard of living in the villages. The people are adequately fed, clothed, and sheltered, but have very little to spare. 
Reaching such villages as Dumbraveni or Elnea requires a slow, rocking bus ride over narrow, mud-p~ed roads. The village itself is an improvement; two of three streets might be paved. Vintage pre-war houses still outnumber those the government has built. Electricity means a light bulb hanging from the ceiling; running water, a trip to the well. Appliances and pipes still belong to some distant future. 

The people live simply, making as many things as possible themselves, before making a trip to the nearest COOP. They keep hogs, chickens, and gardens on the small plot of land around the house. Wine is home grown and distilled along with suica, a gut-blasting Romanian plum liquor. Those who keep sheep shear them, spin and dye the wool, then weave rug and cloth on museum piece looms. 

Religion and family ties run strong in Romanians, to the point where they even frame Christmas cards and hang them on the wall. All of my relatives greeted me with a kiss on each cheek, then proceeded to show me dozens of family pictures that I had not looked at in years. Their great curiosity about the young, American relative with long hair was tempered only by the language barrier, though they tried hard to surmount it. My interest in Dracula amused the Transylvanians most, largely because he is a non-person there, a reminder of the bad, old days. 
As far as leaders go, things have changed little since the days Vlad Dracul <Dracula, before he went vampire) ruled Tran­sylvania. Fear, the basic instrument of maintaining order, has remained un­changed through the centuries. True, such 

r---------------------------~----------­
Valentine's Day Classified Ads 
Tell your Valentine and the world how you really feel 
Ads will be taken in the Observer office Today until 5, Tomorrow until 1 pm only 
Valentine Special: Up to 15 words for $1.00 
by t o'reiley 
things as violent crime and pornography occur Vt!ry rarely, but, oh, what a price. 
Living with my host for two weeksbrought the Orwellian aspects of this police state into horrifying focus. I refer to him only as "host," because I would feel as if I were betraying him by identifying further. Many times, after expressing pro-American opinions to me. he concluded with the warning:'Do not tell anyone, not evenyour comrades in Austria, what I said. Say nothing until you return to America. You do not want me in jail, do you?" 
While having improved Romanian life, the state has been nothing short of vicious in doing it without opposition. Though my host is materially well off, and often told me he lives a good life, he did not appear con­vinced. The government moved him from a city and job he loved, to the blocs where he does not want to raise his children, and to a disposition when he prefers the outdoors. Though "Romania for Romanian people" may reap its rewards, neither the government nor the citizens will advance far, when, as my host remarked, "everything belongs to the government, even the people." 
~-------------------------i
ILATE NIGHT SPECIALI
I J & JOINER i I ANY OMELETTE (INCL. WESTERN)II HASH BROWNS, TOAST, COFFEE I 
I I 
I MUSIC all for II PINBALL $ 1ONLY WITH THIS AD I I (REGULARLY $1.80)1
I ANY MON -THURS 1
In PM -11 AM 327 N. MICHIGAN



------------------------· 


the observer Wednesday, February 12, 1975 ,
6 


Dr.Morg_anthau discusses recent U.S. foreign policy
b~· Mar)' Rt>ht'r 
Starr Ht>portrr 
Addressing an overflow crowd in 
the Library Auditorium last night, 
Dr. llans Morgenthau, professor 
t•meritus of the University of 
( 'hicago and the City University of 
Nt•w York. discussed recent U. S. 
foreign policy. 

"From World War II to 1969, a 
uniform pattern of foreign policy 
had developed dominated by the 
Cold War. The character of this 
Ppoch lay in that the American 
policy operated on two levels: 
traditional power and ideological 
confrontation. We were faced with 
a political powt>r antagonistic to us 
and a way of life opposed to ours," 
said 1\lorgenthau. 

"It was obivous that diplomacy 
and negotiations and bargaining 
had no place; the Cold War was the 
opposition of two super power 
blocks which precluded com­
promisl' and the resolution of 
outstanding issues," he stated. 
1\lorgenthau observed that with 
the ascent of Hichard Nixon and 
llt•nry Kissinger. the shapt> of 
:\mt•rican foreign policy had taken 
on a nt•w aspect because of their 
initiative and the political world 
1\hich has drastically changed. 
"The first and most important 
contribution of Kissinger," he 
notPd. "was the beginning of 
normalization with China. The 
government was recognized 
politically and from that moment 
onwards world politics was 
transformed. !<'rom that point on, 
thl' ll.S., within narrow limits, 
eould play out China against the 
Soviet Union and could play out the 
Soviet llnion against China, 
1\lorgenthau observed. 

"I think the likelihood of war is 
diminishing every day because 
more Hussian cities could be 
destroyed by Chinese missiles. 
Nl'ither the Soviet Union nor China 
will provoke a war," he stated. "It 
is this antagonism between two 
Communist powers which the U.S. 
could now exploit." 

With regard to detente, 1\lorgenthau admitted that he did not understand the meaning of the word. "No one can define it or its absence. It is one of those concepts which the Soviet t Inion launches from timl' to timl' and no one can condl'mn it. For t'xample, in the !!!SO's their concept was peace. ThPn it was disarmament. 1\hrushcht>v advocated relaxation of tPnsions, and Brezhnev calls for security as opposed to insecurity." 
"BPhind these principles are \'Pry concrete political aspirations of their own. I am blaming us for heing taken in by concepts with possible moral aspirations without eonsidl'ring the eoncrl'te aspirations of the other power," he said. 
Ill' daimPd the Soviet Union dPveloped detente because it eould not reconcile itself to both thP !•:astern tensions of China and the Wl'Stern tensions of the U.S. and !\iATO. 
Om• of the Hussians' aims of detl'nte. he said. is the reduction if not l'limination of American in­fluence in Wl'Stern Europe, whose states eould then become dominated hy the Soviet Union. If this would come to pass, they would win the Cold War over the land mass. Morgenthau noted. 
"PPrhaps the most important objective of detente is the need to get an Pconomic and technological transfusion in order to compete on Pqual terms with other industrial nations." stated Morgenthau. "Khrushcht>v had predicted that by 1970 the Soviet Union would· outproduce the U.S. but this has' not happened yet and it is now past 1970. Hrezhnev must recognize this and see it as an un­derdeveloped nation which cannot rely on competition; instead it must depend on an injection of technology from the West." 
Am!'rican foreign policy has also ehanged in an unprecedented way, noted Morgen tha u, by the discovery of the political use of oil by the oil-producing countries. ''These nations have little of what goes into political power t>xcept for the control ot oil; tney are dellclent in most characteristics which go into the making of a power nation. It is intellecutally interesting and politically dangerous that this power is both negative and destructive. They can dictate a eountry's foreign policy by threat but if the county is destroyed they t·an do nothing with it; they cannot lTeate a new way of life out of ehaos." Morgenthau stated. 
"Even if the U.S. could come to terms with this problem we would still be faced with the overriding of nuclear power," stated thau. "We are of 
Dr. Hans Morgenthau 
.

·····································································································································~
.
. 



you'll at these 
.
.
.
. 
: 
• 

················································································································~····················· 
1\/VV\/VV 
Big Discounts! Save up to $3~00! 







Records 
• 
Top artist~! Major labels! 
Hundreds of records! Classics included! 

~Many, many selections in this special purchase. 
~HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

Sale going on now 

DON'T MISS THIS SALE!! 
Come early for best selection! 


ten thousand nuclear weapons or the equivalent of two tons of dynamite for every man and woman living on earth." 
1\lorgenthau said that the issue is not limited to power nations but has worldwide importance. It is a negative aspect that we can regulate the competition without limiting it. If it is not corrected in timl'. any number of nations will have nuciear weapons and possibly use them. he warned. 
"From old to new foreign policy to a still newer one, there are two major unfinished tasks; the t•omplete ideological decon­tamination of American foreign policy in all of its manifestations and, most importantly, to bring nuclear power under rational control." he summarized. 
In a question-and-answer period following the lecture, Morgenthau praised Kissinger's intellignce in handling foreign affairs and said 
he  was  one  of  the  six  best  
secretaries  of  state.  He  was  
particularly  impressed  by  

Kissinger's handling of the Middle East situation. 
THINK CQ.LEGE LIFE 
INSURANCE CO.OF AMERICA 
SPRING BREAK TRIP TO 


MONTEGO BAY 
JAMAICA 
ROUND TRIP VIA AIR JAMAICA FROM DETROIT 

DAYS, 7 NIGHTS AT,LUXURIOUS MONTEGO BAY HOLIDAYINN 
·MARCH 22-29 $332 per person 

$50 DEPOSITS DUE BY FRI. FEB 14! CALL 272-9895 O.R STOP BY S.U. TICKET OFFICE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. 
SPONSORED BY ST. JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY 
IN CONCERT 


SEALS & CROFTS 

SUN. MARCH 2 7:30 NOTRE DAME ~~~~~~IC AND CONVOCATION 
TICKET PHICES: .\1.1. ('IIAIH TYPE SEA $1i.4l0 Bl.EA<'IIEHS $5.00 
Tickets now on sale: NOTRE DAME, 
A.C.C. BOX OFFICE Mon.-Sat. 9 to 5 STUUOF:NT 
llNION TICKET OFFICE 
Robertson's 
South Bend & Concord Mall St. Joseph Bank and branches First Bank main office only 
Efkart Truth 



Wednesday, February 12, 1975 

Political science society 
Pi Sigina Alpha plans Mock Convention 
by Kathy Mills Staff Reporter 
Pi Sigma Alpha, the political science honor society, is planning Mock Convention 1976 under the direction of faculty adviser Professor Paul Bartholomew. 
The convention, a quadrennial affair, runs exactly like the national convention. Students, acting as delegates from the 50 states and possessions, nominate a presidential and vice-presidential candidate. According to Cathy Uhl, Pi Sigma Alpha vice­president, contenders for the national nomination often come and speak at the convention. 
A committee to organize the 
HPC re-examined 
:continued from page I) 
Administrative of­ficials. and hopefully return to our body thP respect which· some of­ficials havP denied us." 
:\ftpr a rt'ading of the report to thP Council. the HPC unanimously accPpted it and gave the report first priority future action. 
ThP Ill'<' also sent a letter to the administration t•xpressing its concern over the Lewis-Badin l'om·ersion and the financial gain the l'niversitv would receive. The let!l'r asks· the l!niversity to eonsidt>r the hardships the women would undPrgo. both financially and t't•sidmtiallv. 
First. tht• women did not choose to makP this move to the more PXpPnsiVl' hall: second. a majority of thl' womt'n would be financially unable to mPet the proposed rate inen•ase. ~ince it will be eoupled with l'nin•rsitv-wide increase in tuition and roo{n and board: third. th1• sizP of the rooms in Lewis Hall will llP com·erted from singles into ~mall doubles. thus reducing the quality of the rooms: fourth. the numhPr of lwds in Lewis llall will ))(' douhl"d and tht' number of beds a\'ailahlP in Badin Hall will not be ~ignifican!ly Pnough to offset this intTt'ase in n•venue. 
Tht• ll'tter states that the 
l'nivPrsity will he making. What 
tht' Ill'<· considers. an undue in­
lTt'ast' in profit from this hardship 
that the \\omm of both halls will 
hpar. ThP leltl'r also charges the 
l 'nivt•rsitv has made no statement 
rPgarding the rate of the room and 
hoard that the (;raduate Students 
from Lt•wis Hall will have to pay 
during the stay in Radin. 
Tht• Ill'(' also requests the 
l'nivPrsity to suspend the rate 
intTPase for the 1975-76 vear to see 
if th1• womm desire to' stay, thus 
making them subject to the rate 
increase. 
WANTED 

Need riders to Madison. Leaving Fri., Feb. 14, returning Sunday. Call Joe, 289-3923. 
Need riders for Akron leaving Friday. Call Karen, 287-2721. 
Need ride to St. Louis weekend of Feb. 21. Call Joanne at 6997. 
Singer tor rock band. Experience preferred, but not necessary. Call Mike, 8624. 
Married couple needed for live-in houseparents for toster home. Salary. Write P.E.P., Inc., 3012 S. Twickenhe~m, South Bend, 46614. 
FOR SALE 

NO Class ring . man's, size 10'12, CHEAP. 234-6375. 
Left-hand golf clubs. 3215 for details. 
Nikon equipment: Nikon F photomic body, 35, 50, 135mm Nikor lenses; 200mm -Vivitar; 300mm Soligor. Call Zenon at 8661 or 8003 by Wednesday if you want to see equipment or make bid. 
Beginner's Camera Outfit: Mamiya Sekor 500 TL, 50mm f2, 5000mm f8 telephoto and 2x, Soligor Teleconverter. All Cases included. $320. Phone 8709. 
convention is now being formed. Any interested student should either contact Brian Meginnes at 
289-3923 or Mike Singer at 8788, or sign up in the Government and 
International  Students  in  
O'Shaughnessy.  
Pi  Sigma Alpha  has  also  an­ 

nounced pre-registration plans
;.;;~~.....:.--..;;.---~-..;.------------------­
designed to help students choose government courses. Descriptions of courses in the government department will be made available to students in the government 
department will be made available to students in the government office durin~ pre-registration. 
in addition to course d~crip­
1 




It Sounds Incredible 


thing-the place to learn more about it is at a free speed reading lesson. 
This is the same course President Kennedy had his Joint Chiefs of Staff take. The staff of President Nixon completed this course in June 1970. The same one Senators and Congressmen have taken. 
Come to a Mini-Lesson and fincl out. It is free to you and you will leave with a better understanding of why it works. One thing that might bother you about your reading speed is that someone might find out how slow it is. The instr1.1ctors at the Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Free Speed Reading lesson will let you keep your secret. It's true we practice the first step to improved reading at a Mini-Lesson and we will increase your reading speed on the spot, but the results will remain your secret. Plan to attend a free Mini-Lesson and learn that it is possible to read 3·4·5 times faster, with comparable comprehension. 
BUT EVELYN WOOD GRADUATES CAN READ 
THE EXORCIST IN 58 MINUTES 
At That Speed, The 403 Pages Come Across W"lth More Impact Than The Mawie. 

You can do it, too. So far over 550,000 other people have done it. People who have different jobs, different lOs, different interests, different educations have completed the course. Our graduates are people from all walks of life. These people have all taken a course developed by Evelyn Wood, a prominent educator. Practically all of them at least tripled their reading speed with equel or better comprehension. Most have increased it even more. Think for a moment what that means. All of them-even the slowest-now read an average novel in less than two hours. They read an entire issue of Time or Newsweek in 35 minutes. They don't skip or skim. They read every word. They use no machines. Instead, they let the material they're reading determine how fast they read. And mark this well: they actually understand more, remember more, and enjoy more than when they read slowly. That's right! They understand more. They remember more. They enjoy more. You can do the same 
tions, members of the honor 'society will be in the office to 
answer questions about courses, 
professors and programs in the 
department. 
"The best thing to do when 'consideringtakingacourseistogo ask the professor what he is
-
the observer 
7 
REMEMBER YOUR V~LENTINE WITH FLOWERS 
Posy Pafch 
409 Dixie Way North 
_
272 6363 
Order early! 
Variety of bloomingplants, cut flowers. 
planning to do ____;~;::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;::;:;::::::;,::::::::l 
....-:.....-......-. ··­

,..------SCHEDULE OF FREE MINI-LESSONS---------. 
You'll increase your reading speed 50 to 100% on the spot! THIS WEEK ONLY FREE READING DYNAIV\ICS LESSOI\5 at 4:00 pm and 8:00 pm at THE CENTER F~ CCl\JTINUING EDUCATION on The Notre Darre Campus 
~------------------------------------------------------------------J
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 
·-··--·-···········-···-···-···-····.............................._,___
L-•••-••-•w ······-·-········-·-·-­
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Garrard turntable, Electrophonic receiver, Realistic 1000 speakers. $250.00. Phone 8709. 
SR-10 Calculator. $50. Call Rick Huber, 3156. 
NOTICES 

THIS SPRING BREAK (MARCH 22-29) REGGAE DOWN TO MONTEGO BAY, JAMAICA! ROUND TRIP BY AIR JAMAICA JET & DELUXE AC· COMODATIONS AT THE PLUSH MONTE<;O BAY HOLIDAY INN. TENNIS, GOLF, SWIMMING AND GREAT RAYS IN THE CARIBBEAN SUN. $50 DEPOSITS MUST BE IN BY FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14. FOR MORE INFORMATION AND 
SIGN-UPS,  STOP  BY  THE  
STUDENT  UNION  TICKET  
OFFICE  OR  CALL  272-9895  AF­ 

TER 7:00pm. ARRANGEMENTS BY THE ST. JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY. 
1966 Ford custom four-door automatic, good running condition, radial tires and 2 snow tires. Air conditioning. $500. 272-0859 after 6 pm. 
Renters: for renter's insurance, call Glen or Jess Neely, 272-6565, State Farm Insurance. 
Typing: papers, theses, disser­tations. Reasonable rates, reliable service. 272-0859 after 6 pm. 
Take the Greyhound from Notre Dame to Chicago every Friday at 
5: 40. Two buses return on Sunday. Call Tom, 272-1807. 
Responsible students desire to rent motorhome for 10 days (March 21­
30) for trip to Florida. Will pay $400. Call Trace, 234-1889. 
Party at Woody's, 1223 Woodward Ave., Fri., Feb. 14 at 9:00. Call 234· 5523 tor directions. 
Money?? Morrissey Loan will lend up to $150 for 30 days. 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune, daily, 11:15 to 12:15. 
AcciJrate, fast typing . Northeast section of South Bend. Reasonable. 232-0746. 
Rolling Stone, Village Voice, Berkeley Barb, Ann Arbor Sun, East West Journal and more newspapers at Pandora's Books, 602 N. St. Louis Blvd at South Bend Ave. 
HASH BROWN BLUES BAND NOW AVAILABLE FOR YOUR PARTY, DANCE OR FORMAL. FOR FURJHER INFORMATION, CALL 272-9895 
Western Electronics 24 hour TV service. 1530 Western Ave., 282­1955. 
Disciplinary action hanging over your head? Call Student Govt, 7668. We may be able to help. 
FOR RENT 
Houses ranging from two to seven bedrooms. Completely furnished. Available for May or Sept. 234­9364. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: long white and blue knitted scarf. Call 3694. Reward. 
Lost: 1 pair of ladies glasses in pink, green, and gray case. Lost Sat. nite between Grace and Cavanaugh. If found pleast call 1769 or 7827. 
Found: pair of glasses near Zahm in a cloth case. Call 8231. 
PERSONALS 
To the chump: Happy 21st. CCC & R 
Here it is in black and white, Slaughter. Happy 21st. 
Gay Students of Notre Dame: an organization of persons interested in sharing with others an im­portant aspect of their lives. P.O. Box 1702, South Bend, Ind. 46601. 
"Need ride to Tucson. Late July or early August. Desperate . getting married. Call Flan, 1026." 
Happy Twentieth Chutie, you really pull it! The Moose 
To Star, Belle, & Sue: It's most obvious to me You won't move O.C. And I'm just the brunt of a rooking. But it's tough all around, How does 80 bucks sound? The cleaning and half of the cooking. 
Prospective Roommate 
Radio Valentines. Call WSND at 6400 and broadcast your Valentine wishes to the world. Fri., Feb. 14, 7 
a.m. • 6:30 p.m. 
Boy still available for B-P formal. Come on girls, try me--you'll like me. Call Dan, 282-1791. 

• 
.. .. 

S f he O b~s~e~r_:oV~e~r=-==---=-W_e_d_n_es_d_a_y,_Fe_b_r_ua_r_y_l-::2_,_19-.,.-75_ 
Face Western Michigan tonight 
Meagher, Thompson pace :t unbeaten NDswim team 
by Ernie Torriero 
he has been one of the Irish's most scholarship team, we'd be great." 
Far from the clanging of helmets consistent swimmers. Thompson Most people on campus consider on the gridiron of Cartier Field, the opens every meet by legging the swimming a small-time endeavor. sounds of basketballs bouncing on first part of the 400-yard medley But for the Irish tankers this is the ACC hardwood, and the relay, an event that Notre Dame hardly true. "Swimming is an swishing of skates on ACC ice, the has won every time this year. important part of my life," states Notre Dame swim team practices Jim Meagher has participated in Jim. "The most important part is in relative seclusion on the other the 100,200 and 500-yard freestyle the coach and the team. I've en­
side of campus in the Rockne events in his four years of com­joyed swimming, the guys and, the Memorial Pool. petition at Notre Dame. He also coach." But their practices can never be holds the varsity record in the 100-Thompson echoes these feelings termed indolent, while their efforts yard butterfly. by saying, "I've been swimming 
in dual meet competition hardly Throughout his career, Meagher since I was eight. It's my sport. If ean be called lethargic. has been swimming in the shadow I'd have known what this team was 
l<'or the Irish swim team in 9-o, of captain Jim Kane, possibly the like before I came here, I'd have the only undefeated team on greatest Irish freestyler ever. But come anyway. Being a small-sport earn pus. Their nine wins represent it is Kane who is quick to pay gives us unity." the most ever by a Notre Dame tribute to Jim. Many feel that the Notre Dame acquatic crew. It is a proud squad, "Jim swam against Oakland's swimming schedule is an easy one. 
spirited and close-knit. They All-American Paul Karas," says But Thompson is the first to voice hl'lieve in the.nselves, each other Kane, "and he pretty much knew an objection. "The schedule is a and their coach, Denny Stark. that he was going to get beat. But killer," says Bob. He further Two men who are especially Jim tied the pool record and lost to relates, "We try to peak for every 
pleased with this year's ac­Karas who broke it. That's desire, meet. But we usually only have rom~~m~~ are ~~on ~m he never quit." three or four days to prepare. l\ll•agher and Bob Thompson. Both Thorn pson and Meagher react Sometimes we are lucky to win. 
have worked diligently and very positively to this year's swim The schools are tough and the trips ~;:, 
patiently for four years. Now they team excellence. "We've been are long." are rea ping the intrinsic working real hard," says Just how good the Notre Dame OFF THE mark in typical style is one member of the Notre Dame swim satisfaction that comes from a Meagher. He further adds, "For a tankers really are may be team. This time the event is a relay, but so far, the Irish have been strong 
winning season. non-scholarship team, this squa d debatable . Both Thompson and in everything. A perfect record has been the result. 
Bob Thompson, a 5-9, 150 pound has posted a good showing." Meagher readily agree that the backstroker from North Olmstead, Thompson reacts more en­Irish are not in the same class as swimming is not emphasized Thompson concurs stating, Ohio, holds the varsity record in thusiastically saying, "We can some of the big time schools like enough. The young swimmers "Swimming is an outlet for me. both the 100 and 200-yard beat any non-scholarship team in Indiana. Meagher further ex­need something to shoot for." Practice is no problem. I wouldn't backstroke events. Over the years the country. If we were a full-plains, "There are different Mixing academics and swim­study during this time any way." 
plateaus in college swimming. We ming is no problem for either Bob The Irish hope to continue their aren't on the highest one and I or Jim. Meagher relates, "I have winning ways tonight against
doubt if we can consider ourselves an obligation to myself and to the Western Michigan in a 7:00 p.m. on the second-highest plateau. We team. Sure it's sometimes hard on meet at the Rockne Memorial are better than most small-college me as a student. But I have tried to Pool. "We always get psyched for teams, though. I think that we are make those two <athletics and Western Michigan," says captain 
Tracksters host four 

this vveekend in ACC 
the cream of the non-scholarship academics) tie in together." Kane, "they are always tough."by Dan Reagan DePaul invade the Convo as the teams." 
Irish tracksters will be looking for Bob and Jim disagree on 
r--------------------------1
After three weeks of traveling their first team victory of the 1975 whether or not the swim team 1 T 0 M 'S U N IV E R S IT Y S T A N D A R D I the Notre Dame track team season. Some fieldhouse records should receive more money and I I returns home for its one and only will be in jeopardy, especially in publicity than it has been getting. I 17993 STATE ROAD 23 272-0083 1 meet in the Athletic and Con-the distance and middle distance "My attitude is to do the best that I I 1 vocation Center this winter. The events. Mike Housley will attempt can. It doesn't bother me that our I Irish thin-clads have had rough to break the record in the mile run program doesn't get what football I CONVENIENTLY LOCATED goings but hope to rebound on their set in 1969 by Steve Korinchak of and basketball gets. Swimming is I AT THE CORNER OF 1 home track this weekend. Miami of Ohio at 4:08.7. something very personal to me." 1 1 
Coach Don Faley's runners Themeetisscheduledtobeginat Thompsonobjectssaying, "It's a 1 IRONWOOD AND STATE I participated in the Michigan State 6:30 with the preliminaries and the shame that no swimming 1 ROAD 23 I Relays last Saturday and narrowly finals to follow at 7:00. Admission scholarships are given out. I 1 missed national qualifying time in is rree Swimming is a big sport. College I ACROSS FROM THRIF-T-MART I 
~~=:is~~n~l~eed)~~h~~:~: p~~~ z...• h 16th unranked l•n poll• I
10 PERCENT DISCOUNT TO N.D. & S.M. C. STUDENTS 

Matuscello, Mike Housley and Jim .& 1, 8I I COMPLETE CAR CARE I Reinhart were clocked at 9:57.9, UPI p II II I I just .9off the qualifying time. Ted 0 AP Po I SALE! WITH THIS AD I Burgmeir finished sixth in the pole ~!~n~:~o~t~oa~ ~~ec~a~~!~ The Top TwPnty, with litst-place I I vault with a jump of 14'6". No roUE-ge baskt>tball ratings, with numbE-r V!llt>s in part'nlheSPs, SPason records 1 I 
and total points. Points tabulated on It I t pia d rds h ugh
eamscoresorpacemt•ns were offirst-cevotPsan rero tro basisof~ll!-111-14-12·1().11-f!.i-11-ii-4-3-2·1: 1 DE-ICER 59tt­
kept at the MSU relays. Saturday, Feb. RIn parentheses 42 of 42 I. Indiana (43) . . .22-0 1!110 ~ I 
roaches voting Tenth week. I
Although the Irish have yet to T~•• Pelnts !. UCLA··· 17-2 r.'l!l I I win a meet there have been some L Indiana (42) 22-0 4-'!0 4. Kentucky . . .17-3 !i:JH
3. Maryland 17·2 6ol WASHER SOLVENT 69 ~ 1 
3 
312

exceptional individual per-~: ~~ryL1a~~ 217_ . · 5. N. Carolina st. 16·3 192 1 I formances. Strortg events for the 4. N.C. st. 1&-3 .~~ ~·. ~f:=~!e :l~~ ~} 1 SNOW BRUSH SO tt-1 
track men have come in the mile-5. Kentucky 17·2. · 221 R. Arizona State. 11-2 274 I ~ 
8 17

run high hurdles I 000 yd run and · ALolabavlllma }. ~~!!!;! 9. Marquettt> J;;.:i 2!il 1 I 
• ' ' • 7. uls e ,.,._ "" 10. Southern Cal 14-4 24H
the pole vault. R. Arizona St. 17-2 1:14 11. North carolina 14-' 193 1 I Both Jim Reinhart and Mike 9. soutllt>rn Cal13-~ llfi !2. l.aSaiiP JR.; LIMIT ONE ITEM PER CUSTOMER I
167 

10. North Carolina 14-!i 30 ~ Oft' L
1

Housley have been impressive in 11 . Oregon st. I3-R.. 211 ·· gon. I!H 1113 
the mile. Reinhart grabbed first 12. Marquette 15-3. . . 2fi l~: ~=~nAmt>rican l~~ ~ place in a triangular meet with 13· LaSalle tl!-3· 16 18. Notre Damt> 12-7 34 Michigan and Bowling Green J:: ~~ ~~g&s 17.3 · l: 17. Oregon State... t:I-R :JO
Ill. Ck>mson . . . Il-l! 'BUniversities with a 4:08 timing and 1&. Creighton lf>-4 . · · · · 13 lt. Arizona IH 211 also placed third in the Illinois l~: ~~~e;~:ln~t.,~!i ·l~ 21. Cl'\'ighton t!H 21 Invitational. Housley 'has been 19. Uuh St. 111-4. w close behind finishing third in 211. Texas-EI Paso I~ 9 the Michigan meet with a 4:09 ,---------------------------,
clocking. 

Freshman Chuck Wills gained his initial first place finish as an Irish runner, speeding to an 8.8 second high hurdle victory in Ann Arbor. Senior co-captain, Mike <;nhagan has shown his potential NCAA qualifying form in the 1,000 yd. run with his best effort at 2:14.9. 
The Irish will host four teams Friday night, all coming out of the Midwestern area. Valparaiso, Wayne State, Kentucky State, and 
WEDNESDAY NIGHT SPECIALS 
COMPLETE DINNERS
... 
(',\1\:,\Jll,\1\: WALLEYED 
I'IKE $:!.15 I'ITCHI<:RS OF BEI<::R $1.50 WIIILI<: VIEWING 5 x 7 TV 
.. 

What are you doing · the rest of your life? 
look at the future through 
life Planning Workshops. 
Notre Dame Counseling 
Center Workshops 
Feb. 14 & 16 CaII 283-1 71 7 
MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES 
*  2 FILMS  
*  BOOKSTORE  
*  LIVE FLOOR SHOW  

1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET CAll 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION 




