
OD The Inside 
Williams cancels 
.•. page 3 Grad school insight 
... page 6 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Friday, Febraury 28, 1975

Vol. IX, No. 90 
All SBP-SBVP tickets represented
.... 

Grace forum opens campaigns 
STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT_hopefuls discuss their platforms and plans for change at last night's forum at Grace Hall (Photo by Chris Smith). 
Liability bill goes to House 

Faccenda optimistic about drinking law 
by Ken Girouard and Don Riemer Starr Reporters 
The campaign for Student Body President and Vice-President went swinging into high gear yesterday as candidates made appearances at various halls on campus. 
The high point of yesterday's activity took place last night at a forum in Grace Hall. Each of the eight tickets was represented in the hour and a half program. 
The format of the forum allowed each candidate a five-minute presentation followed by questions from the audience. After the questioning period, each ticket was allowed a one-minute summary speech. 
The first candidate to speak was Tom Black, the vice-presidential candidate on the J. Pat Boyle ticket. Black emphasized the role of leadership, saying ''We need someone who is going to be an effective voice against the administration." 
He also stressed the potential role of the Alumni in aiding student causes. "We haven't used the Alumni pressure. They often side with us more than with the ad­
minstration," Black noted. 
The next presidential candidate to speak was Andy Bury. His speech focused on the need for constructive leadership. 
"We need leadership, forceful leadership. We're not out to massively reorganize student govern­ment. I think it's running fine as it is. We have a solid organization," he said. 
Following Bury was Ed Byrne, who pointed towards organization as the key to effective action. Byrne said that, "We want to show the student what he faces when he tries to change administrative policy. The administration has the upper hand because they know that the student won't risk ex­pulsion and lose all of the good things of Notre Dame." 
Student involvement was the main topic of Jack Culligan's speech. "We have to get you people involved," he said. "We have to show the ad­ministration that we mean business." 
Culligan proposed a survey system and an in­creased role by the HPC in order to improve communication and student involvement. 
Mike Gassman, the next candidate to appear, said that he wanted student government to become more effective and businesslike through the use of con­crete and viable ideas. 
by Pat Hanifin Staff Reporter 

The bill"limiting the liability of universities for activities of students who have been drinking has a "good chance" of becoming law, Dr. Philip Faccenda said yesterday. The bill, which passed the Senate last Tuesday now goes for approval before a House committee and then the full House. 
"If the bill can make it to the floor of the House it has an ex­cellent chance to pass, probably in the final week of the legislative session in mid-April," Faccenda commented. "I am not aware of any strong opposition to it. The main problem now is the logjam of bills that have to go through in the short time at the end of the session." 
Though it passed the Senate by a vote of 46-3, the bill has not yet been assigned a committee in the House. Due to political disputes, bills from each house have been held up in the other. However the delay is expected to end before the current session does. 
Faccenda said that it is "too early to predict what the proposal's exact effect on the campus alcohol situation will be. 
The bill was amended in the Senate and may be amended again in the House so we will have to wait until we see the final form," Faccenda said. 
However Faccenda did indicate that it would not entirely bring back the relatively liberal regulations and hall parties that the University had last year, before two court cases suggested the University might be legally liable for students' actions. 
Faccenda has previously stated that he feels that the best solution to the alcohol situation is the lowering of the drinking age. 
He commented on the relation between the two measures yesterday, saying, "It has been my hope from the start that this bill will draw legislative attention to the underlying problem, that In­diana is surrounded by states with reduced drinking ages." 
Stressing that he is "not primarily concerned with saving the University's money," Fac­cenda explained that his main interest is in the "student body and its educational situation." 
The University cannot legally lobby for the age bill and Faccenda thought the liability bill, which the University can support wokld have a better c·hance of passing since it would not face the strong op­position the age bill would run up against. 
Faccenda has made several trips to the state capital to explain the Univeristy's position to the legislators and he states that "other major universities in the state are supporting this bill too." 
Although there was no strong oppostiion to the bill in the Senate some Senators argued that it would allow less vigilance on the part of universities in enforcing the state law among their students. "Some of them felt that we should police students the way parents control their children," Faccenda stated. 
However he argued that this type of "in loco parentis" has no con­nection with the University's version. "A change in our policies here would have no effect on our legal responsibilities," Faccenda sight before you at lunchtime is bland food and a bland Observer said. "Fr. Burtchaell is talking" masthead."
about values and the University's -Jean-Paul Sartre, defining "No Exit"
parent-like concern for the" students' education. The senators .. Sartre, be miserable no more. The Observer undergoes a maj~rand courts are talking about facelift this Monday. Never again will you confuse the Observer physical control over illegal ac­·with "Chef's Surprise," placing your fork firmly in the "On T~tetion." 
Inside" box.

Faccenda stated that in his view The masthead and new logos are the work of Senior Mike Mroa:.
it is "physically impossible for the When asked for a comment on the toil and hardship of produci~gUniversity to exercise the same the "new look," Mroz stated, "Where's \he Money?" 
kind of control of the actions of 6000 
"We're proposing, not promising, ideas," he said, "with the hope that students will like them enough to become involved." 
In his presentation, Brian Hegarty stated that mass student activity, such as boycotts and demonstrations, might be necessary and ef­fective on major issues. He cautioned, however, that it was necessary to have organization and leadership for lesser goals. "We must have a balance between policy and service," he noted. 
Dennis Smith expressed concern over the ineffectiveness of student government. "Student Government is not running effectively. We must go to the residence halls and meet with the whole student body," he said. Smith added that if working through normal channels did not get results, then "mass demonstrations better do it." 
. The last candidate to speak was Joe Corpora. He focused his speech upon the need for an expanded student government. "We need to increase communication between the different sectors of student government. We need to involve more people and do away with the cliques," Corpora stated. 
Questions and answers 

The presentations by the candidates was followed by a question­and-answer session involving the audience. The questions which were raised pertained to individual points of the candidates' platforms. 
The most notable questions pertained to Brian Hegarty's proposal to remove visitation hours from the university to the hall level, and Mike Gassman's proposal concerning the restructuring of the StYdent Union. 
Hegarty's proposal was an experiment in which the determination of visitation hours would be placed in the hands of the individual halls. Groups of students within these halls would meet to reach a decision regarding their own hours. The practical size of each group would be decided by the hall staffs. 
A question concerning the feasibility of this plan arose. Hegarty · answered the charge by saying that "This was only proposed as an experiment. We're delegating authority and responsibility to the individual halls. It will be a responsibility to'the students, but one which will aid in their personal growth." 
The question on Gassman's proposal for the restructuriqg of the Student Unio~ was more difficult. One spectator stated that""a lot of people were attacking the Student Union," and wondered if the issue of restructuring the Student Union was "trumped up." 
This question led to an argument on the philosophy and purpose of this organization. The main point was whether the Student Union was a money-making organization or a service group. The argument was never resolved, and the issue was dropped when the moderator cut off discussion on the question. 
After the forum was over, some of the candidates expressed varied opinions on the direction and progress of the campaign so far. 
Ed Byrne felt that the campaign was "coming down to a personality contest;" while Andy Bur~ said that, "I'd like to stress what can·· didates have to offer rather than their personalities." 
Mike Gassman stated that it was "important to note how the can­didates have investigated the issues, and that an indication of how the candidate will work once in office is to look at how much work he has l done before the campaign." Hegarty, on the other hand, felt that voters should concentrate on the issues and the candidate's method of I approach to them. 
Tom Black, Boyle's vice-presidential candidate, expressed the opinion that "the issues are all the same," and that the election came down to the selection of an able leader. 
,, 
undergraduates which a parent 
served." 
can exercise over his children. 
No college or university in In­Regarding the current situation diana has been sued under the new on campus Faccenda said he was interpretation of the law, at leastnot aware of any major so far, Faccenda stated.
disciplinary cases arising from the "However we at this Universitycrackdown on liquor use.­
have had instances where we could"However my office spends a Jot have been liable had any injUrymore.time saying no than we would 
resulted."
like to," Faccenda said. We get 
various requests for the use of The cases last year which 
University buildings for parties. sparked the current difficulties 
We must refuse such uses if there never reached the Indiana 
is the possibility of underage Supreme Court and Faccenda 
drinking going on. Under Indiana declined to predict how the courts 
law a minor cannot even be in a would actually deal with a case 
building where liquor is being involving a university. 

'New look' for Observer 
"The existential reality becomes most evident when the only 
Friday, Februarv 28. 1975

the obseryer 
, I 
warld briefs 
NEW YORK UPI-A five alarm fire raged for more than 16 hours Thursday, causing "millions of dollars" in damage to a 12 story telephone switching center, disrupting service to 170,000 customers including the Police Department's communications system before it was brought under control. 
A l<'ire Department spokesman said the blaze officially was declared under control at 4:45p.m. Est 16 hours and 20 minutes 
1 
1 after it broke out in a sub-basement of a major telephone company switching center. 
1 
SAIGON llPI-The United States began a Berlin-style food airlift to besieged Phnom Penh shortly after dawn Thursday, sending three jet planeloads of rice to the Cambodian capital. 
The Trans International and World Airways commercial DC8 jets were the first of about 450 rice planes which will shuttle bet­wt>en Phnom Penh and Saigon for the next 30 days. 
I'IIILABELPIIIA llPI-The Philadelphia Catholic Archdiocese announced Thursday it is switching its support from 330 Girl Scout troops to the Camp Fire Girls because among other things, of a Girl Scout program involving discussion of pregnancy, birth control, and abortion. 

an campus t:aday 
friday, feb. 28 3:25pm. lecture, "the heterogenous phase equilibria of the system 
carbon dloxlde-n-butylbenzene-2-methylnapthene: experimental & correlational studies" by ht ward yang, 269 chem eng bldg. 3:30pm . colloquium, "conterfactuals" by prof. b. soboclnski, lib 
faculty lounge. 4:30pm -lecture, "p-dlsign with at most 3 intersection numbers 
226 computer center. 5 pm -mass dinner, bulla shed 5 pm -vespers, log chapel 7, 9, 11 pm-film, "serplco" $1, eng aud. 7:30pm -hockey, nd vs u of wisconsin, ace 8 pm -drama, "medea" $1.50, o'laughlin aud. 8 pm-recital, violin, by carol dalllnger, littletheatee 9pm-1am-smc coffeehouse, 9 d. feldman, lo snook & townsend, 11 
s. paspek 12 r. spengler 

9:30 pm -nazz coffeehouse, Iafortune 
saturday, march 1 4:10pm-basketball, nd vs u. of dayton, ace 5 pm -vespers, log chapel 6:30pm -liturgy, for jr. parents weekend, sacred heart church 7, 9, 11 pm-film, "serplco" $1, eng aud. 
7:45pm -dinner, junior parents weekend president's dinner inn. dining hall 8 pm -drama, "medea", $1.50, o'laughlin 8:15pm-basketball, high schoolsectlonal finals, ace arena, $1.75 8:15pm -concert, august ana college choir, sacred heart church 10 pm -nazz, Iafortune 
sunday , march 2 10 am-breakfast ends jr. parents weekend, n. dining hall 1 pm opera workshop, goldovsky, little theatre, smc 
4:30 pm -evenson vespers, lady chapel 
7: 30 pm -concert, seaIs & croft, $6, $5, ace 8pm-concert, jerome Iowenthai, pianist, o'laughlin aud. 8pm-soph lit festival, joseph brodsky, library aud. 
* SMC COFFEEHOUSE.* 
TONIGHT ! 
Dave Feldman Snook & Townsend 

.. ' .. • • • " • • "' ~ ' 
·''""'\"'"'~•••w'"•f'• 
,·•..u·nder the · ·
... 
, , , dining hall. . 
• r . t ' ' ' • • 

Co111111ittee review-s McNally's proposal for co-ed dorinitory 
by Bob Brink 
toward the proposal. He doubts Staff Reporter that the issue will be decided by then, or that the details of the plan 
Fr. Thomas McNally's proposal would be worked out. He sub­to convert Grace Hall into a mitted the proposal because he felt coeducational dorm next year on the issue of coeducational living an experimental basis has been deserved a hearing. reviewed by the Committee of Residentiality, a subcommittee of McNally mentioned that so far the Committee of Students student reaction to the proposal Priorities, according to Prof. John generally has been-favorable. He Roos, a committee member. has found reactions of ad­ministrative personnel to be what he expected. He said that their
The Residentiality Committee's function, however, is not to form 
reactions were not excessivelycritical.

an opinion on the proposal. In­stead, their concern is with long range affairs and priorities. "I knew some people in the 
administration would be un­Towards the end of March the favorable, and nothing that has Committee will submit a report 
happened yet has changed their minds," said McNally.

which will include their review of 
Father Thomas McNally

the proposal to the Committee of Questioned about the rejection tlf Student Priorities. This com­
Now a week after he suggested 
the proposal last fall and about the mittee will then submit their 

the plan, McNally still doubts that 
consideration it would receive thisreport to the Board of Trustees. 

it will be implemented by next 
time, McNally responded that heyear.

McNally's coeducation plan felt "if the Committee makes a proposed that one section on each positive proposal concerning it,
"Definitely I don't think it has a 
then the administration wouldof four floors of Grace be made 

chance of being accepted for next 
consider it."

available for the housing of 100 
year. I think it is at least a year

female students next year on an 
away, and that estimate might be 
Concerning specific details of theexperimental basis. If the ex­

optimistic," commented McNally. 
proposal, McNally stated, "'We'reperiment works, McNally leaving the proposal pretty muchproposed that the male-female McNally explained, however, as it is until there is some kind ofratio be equalized over a period of that he was not being pesliiinistic positive report concerning it."

years. 
Keeney elected 




I.-------------------------,THIS SUNDAY NIGHT MAR 

2 -ISJ

Observer editor 
Tl:'rry Keeney, a junior ~N.D. & S.M.C. NIGHT AT SHULA'S' 
Government major from Ken­
sington. Maryland, has been 1NO.COVER CHARGE WITH THISAIA Piected to succeed Tom Drape as I I Editor-in-Chief of the Observer, I N 0 W APPEARING I cffective April I. The election was held last night.with all members of ·1 Casey Jones & The J th!:' Editorial Board and the night Pditors voting_ ~~ Cannonball Express J 
KPeney has served as a staff reporter. day editor and is I AND ' I currently news editor_ He replaces I I Tom Drape, a senior American I LISTEN I Studies major from Kansas City, l\1 issouri·. who will step down as of March 19. 
The Observer is published dally during the college seml!!ller except 
i ~St,Ja ~ nile C/t,t i

vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame Md St. 
I NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS I 

Mary's College. Subscriptions 
I on US. 31 Mtween Nies. So. Bend-FrN Plrkin&-683-4350 I 

may be purchased for S9 per semester ($16 per year) from ·The 
I I

Observer BoX Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 
I I 

postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
I I
46556. 



·-------------------------~ 
SHAMROCK 





SHAKE 


TO ALL TICKET HOLQERS OF_THE NOTRE DAME VS DAYTON,MARCH 1,1975 GAME 
IF NOTRE DAME WINS! 
That's right, if our Notre Dame basketball team beats Dayton, March 1,1975, just present your ticket stub at McDonald's.® We'.ll give you a mint flavored Shamrock Shake free! Limit one per cust9mer, please. 
Offer valid only at: 
McDonald's ® just north of the Toll Rd. 52665 U.S. 31 N. _ South B~nd, IN 
Offer expires: Fr'iday, March 7, 197S 
'' . 
·­

.,-...-...................... . 


---------------~-----------------, 
Friday, February 28, 1975 
the observer 
3 

Williams cancels Festival date 
by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter 
Kenneth Moore, Assistant Professor of sociology and an­thropology, and Sophomo~e Literary Festival chairman Chns Mahon were notified yesterday morning that playwright Ten­nessee Williams will be unable to appear at the 1975 festival. 
Mahon received a telegram from Williams' agent, Bill Barnes, simply stating that Williams would be unable to appear Sunday, March 2 and expressed sympathy. 
The telegram delivered to 
Moore, who arranged for Williams 
to participate in this ye~r's Tennessee William~ coming." ! festival. was from the playwnght Pt·t•ssNI, you understand. Much "We may be able to arrange an :. himself and stated: mon• inv!;lved in situation than I appearance after Easter," Mahon · 
Cushing-Worland letters 
EDITOR'S NOTE : 
The following letters were received by the editor this week. Th~y concern the vital matter ot University governance and express differing views on the faculty role m that governnace. 
Worland letter 
Dear Professor Cushing: 
1 am returning my faculty referendum ballot under separate cover. However, I am writing you to indicate my opinion on several items included on the ballot and maki~;~g my views knows to the Editor of the Observer. 
l. Concerning faculty salaries: Treatment of this issue is not very professional. You ask if the faculty would like more money--why not poll them to see if they like Santa Claus? Furthermore, we are asked to express· an opinion about a highly technical matter of fact .. i.e. whether the Senate has truly "established that adequate funds are available." How is a rank-and-file faculty member expected to come to a reasonable judgment about such a matter-­he would have to know all sources of funds, all competing uses for funds, and have some kind of defensible set of priorities for relating means to ends. By your own admission, the Faculty do not now havd adequate input in the budget process. If so, how was it decided that "adequate funds are available? Also it is naively assumed--as though a self evident verity--that in justices faculty real incomes always go up, never down. Given the wholesale shifts in economic positions now going on in American society, how can you be certain that justice requires an across-lhe­board, non-merit increase in academic real incomes? One further objection, in Appendix I, second paragraph, the salary situation is said to be such that "Notre Dame fails to provide material incentives capable of attracting and sustaining a faculty of high morale." This unsupported assertion cer­tainly has been disconfirmed by recent recruiting experience in some departments. One suspects that, given the surplus of new Ph.D.'s available today's academic labor market. the assertion may be disconfirmed for a great many others. 
3. As for a University-wide budget priorities committee, how could faculty members of such a committee function ef­fectively and still have time to perform adequately as teacher-scholars? If they steep themselves in budget matters sufficiently to make wide decisions, they become part-time faculty, full-time administrators--not much different from those who now make such decisions. 
7. One of the strongest features of Notre Dame as a Unive'rsity derives from our distinctive administrative stricture. Since the Administration, largely controlled by members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, actually governs the University, faculty are let\to concentrate on teaching and reasearch. There is little to attract to Notre Dame the kind of academic politician 
Today last day for Formal tix 
Today is the last day to reserve a bid for the Senior Formal to be held on March 15. There are ap­proximately 20 dinner-dance bids , priced at $26. All $12 dance tickets are gone and a waiting list has been established. The formal will be held at the Elkhart Holiday Inn. Tickets will be on sale only Iff th'e LaFortumflobby~ (romhootUd. 5iOO pm. A $10 non-i'efundabl¢·, 
deposit is required. .. ' 
: ~-'1. {. 'r \.' 'U lip'\, 1.; 'I; y \f \; \i..\i-,'1.,\(.\.",\,','\.'.,_',?--'•~'•:'-' 
V 
could authorize Mr. Barnes mention. Deeply disappointed. Personal and private explanation latet·. Sincerely, Tennessee 
"We've been calling Williams all week to give him his plane reservations," said Moore, "and all we've been getting is a taped ansewer. I gather he's had to leave the country to go to Mexico." 
"I'm sure he didnt't make his decision lightly," Moore con­tinued, "and I'm sure he will 
make an appearance in the future." 
Mahon admitted. the news was 
"but not· 
1: devastating. Things like this happen. He was looking forward to : 
..-----SU_N_D_A_Y_M_A_SS_E_S_..____, 
MAIN CHURCH 
5:15p.m. Sat.  Fr. Bob Griffin, CSC  
9:30 a.m.  Sun.  Fr. Edward Malloy, CSC  
10:45 a.m. Sun.•i•:l • ·'1"l·i\S p.m. Sun.  Fr. William A. Toohey, CSC t't' '.,--c:::,t.'•; 'L' • ~ ' Fr. Bill Toohey, CSC ,  

,. .:~ .._""'~ "". 1 ' J • • •• ~••
· \'.' '.'. '·'



L-....;.------------------------...1 , ....llliiWI~!'!""!'!II!I 
~-~-Y ~-y V,\o.'.'\:.V.'It:.\.!,\.:,'\,.;,'\: .,._., .\..V~"-·-v.v ...-....). ..~•,. _._ J. ~·.; ·, ; \. '!-~\.'tV 'i •"' 
who, being more interested in the exercise of 
power and the manipulation of people than in 
scholarship, uses his academic appointment 
mainly as an entree into an administrative 
position. This fact works strongly to thead­
vantage of our students and is a 
blessing for the faculty. 
9. Concerning the CAP committees, it is a sad fact of life that the presumption (tt­
committees are the most qualified judges of the needs of their respective departments and of the professional com­petence of persons being considered") may not be valid in every case. If not, then what? Is the University merely to stand idly by while an inadequate CAP destroys a depart­ment? The suggestion that a Chairman "should explain and justify any recom­mendation that he may make not in accord with the committee recommendation" would reduce a Chairman to a secretary who, rather than making his own independent decision in a tenure case, simply passes on to the Ad­ministration the collective opinion of his colleagues. There may be departments where such a a reduced role for the chairman is appropriate; but such is certainly not the case for all departments. Lastly, it simply is a fact of life that not all differences of opinion among fair minded men can be eliminated by discussion. Ultimately, a final decision (that may not be understood by all concerned) has to be made. The proposal for binding ar­bitration does not eliminate the need for such a decision. It simply shifts the responsibility tor making it from the Ad­ministration of the University to an outside third party . Why do this? 
10. Concerning the vexing question of faculty recruitment and the Catholic character of Notre Dame, there seems to be little objection to minority-group preference in faculty recruiting. Why can't there be a similar preference based on religious affiliation.? 
In conclusion, there are great advantages in 
division of labor--with the administration respon­
sible for one set of considerations, the faculty 
responsible for another. Many of us are happy with 
the present arrangement. Why not leave it that 
way? 
Sincerely, 
Stephen T. Worland, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Economics 

Cushing letter 
Dear Professor Worland: 
Thank you for your letter of February 24, 1975 commenting on the Faculy Senate's referendum on University governance. Let me respond to each of your points in order. 
(continued on page 14) 

said, indicating that Barnes had mentioned such a possibility. 
"Maybe he'll come to next year's festival." 
"I have no doubt whatsoever," stated Moore, "that we'll be seeing Tennessee Williams on campus as soon as he can arrange it. This is a postponement. not a cancellation." 
Both Moore and Mahon stressed that Williams absence will not detract from the overall·excellence of the Sophomore Literary 1 from Sunday March 2 through Saturday March 8, will feature poets Joseph Brodsky, John Logan, Michael Ryan, Robert Bly, and Lawrence Ferlinghetti in addition to authors Tillie Olsen, James Purdy, and James T. Farrell. 

Brodsky, originally scheduled to open the festival at 3 p.m. Sunday will be appearing Sunday evening at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
SOUTH BEND'S IRISH PUB 

~ ~' 
~-t.t,... -s.O
•.Ira srrl'-~ NOW SERVING 
GYROS (A GREEK SPECIALTY) AND OTHER FINE FOOD 
ALSO YOUR FAVORITE BEER, WNE .AND COCKTAILS ACROSS FRQ\11 

GOOD OLD CORBY'. 
• 

f 4 
Friday, February 28, 1975
the observer 







Candidates begin campaigning 
Hegarty-Caldvvell .more representation 
by Mariannl' Morgan Starr Reportl'r 

Believing that students are not as apathetic as they seem to be, Brian Hegarty, Student Body President candidate and David Caldwell, his running mate, spoke in Fisher Hall last night. 
Two of their main goals are to improve student representation on thl:' Academic Council and removing visitation hours from the University to the hall level. 
"If the number of students on the Council was increased to perhaps 
10. the students would have more say in such decisions as the extra credit charge, pass-fail options, and the calendar." Hegarty said. 
Concerning the extra credit charge, Hegarty suggested that the student be limited to five courses at registration time. He could then pick up a sixth course after registration if the student so desires. This eliminates the need for the extra credit charge which prevented students from signing up for a course and later dropping it. 
On an experimental basis, 
Hegarty suggests that visitation hours should be decided on the hall level. 
"A group of students would meet together and decide maturely and responsibly what hours they would want," Hegarty stated. 
The size of the group would be 
regulated by the hall staff. The 
hall council would decide the 
method of enforcement, perhaps 
through a visitation committee. 
The total arrangement would be 
presented to the Vice-President of 
Student Affairs for approval. Any dorm that could not decide on a visitation policy would keep the present rules. As Caldwell put it, "Co-education means respon­sibility and this action is one step towards adopting co-ed dorms." 
Hegarty noted that he would like to see more money be given to the various halls since most of the social activity is generated by the individual dorms. He pointed to the North Quad Party as a good example. Hegarty felt that student government should give more financial support to the club 
sports, particularly the women's sports that are just starting. 

Stressing the importance of involvement of people in student 
government, Hegarty wants to include a St. Mary's represen­tative and a graduate student in student govern~ent since issues come up mvolvmg both. Also, he feels more women need to get involved in student government. 
Some other platform ideas of the Hegarty-Caldwell ticket are: to establish a small laundromat in the basement of LaFortune, to in­vestigate the security department, and to have a student serve as an ex-officio member of Student Affairs. 
Caldwell stressed the im­portance of the student being aware of how his money is being speHt. As Caldwell commented "Budget hearings should be mad~ public and the students should have some input." He thought it was ironic that in a past Observer on one page it said the University did not have enough money to increase faculty salaries while on another page it mentioned the athletic department had a surplus of money that it had not spent. 
Both candidates encourage the opening and operation of the food co-op program and the con­tinuation of cooperation with the Northeast Neighborhood Association for helping off-campus students. 
The Hegarty-Caldwell motto is "Apathy is contagious, but so is enthusiasm." 

Smith-Rand attack apathy 
b,y Kathy Mills Starr Ht•JH•rh•r 

Dennis Smith and Bruce Rand, candidates for student body president and vice president, respectively. were scheduled to speak and answer questions at !>ilion Hall last night . However. no one attended the meeting. 
"Apathy among students is a serious problem. I think Notre Dame may even have a reputation for its student apathy," declared Smith. 
Smith proposed that if he is l'lected student body president, he would have a rally, similar to that held Wednesday at LaFortune, for students to air their grievances and demands. 
"There were only 400 people at the rally last night. We need a lot more than that. I would want to have groups of kids going through the halls like in panty raids to grab more people to come to the rally. If we get most of the students out there. it would work. Now we're just not getting anything done," he stated. 
Hand added. "We need about two or three thousand people." If the group would stand in front of Corby Hall. Smith remarked, students could "let Hesburgh know we're not going to be pushed around." . He added that it would be "good 
•f we let the administration know our demands at the rally. Maybe we could make signs." 
Smith said that he hopes that new leaders can bring the students out of their apathy. 
"It's almost as if people have accepted the idea that they have no say in government," he remarkeed. 

.He also mentioned that. although h1s name did not appear in Thursday's observer story on W Pdnesday 's rally. he was present at the rally. 
Dillon Hall President Elton Johnson. commenting on the poor attendance at the meeting, stated, "I think the people in Dillon are politically aware. A lot of guys campaigning are not very well known. The candidates must go to the people instead of having mPetmgs. If they go door-to-door. the kids will know they really care." 
Johnson also observed that a scheduled meeting with Brian Hl:'garty in Dillon last night also produced a poor turnout. 
Uncle Willie's Fatal Glass of Beer daily specials: 

Mon-Thurs 12-6 pm 1 frosted mug 25¢ 
50¢ sandwiches: 
hamburgers cheeseburgers polish sausage kosher dogs 



TUESDAY & 

Pitcher Night SATURDAY pitcher $1.25 
Fri. &Sat. noon-6 pm 
hotdogs 10¢ 

The·s·e Soecia's Every Week
. . 





Bury• SondeJ· 
k • •th t
wor 1ng Wl sys e.m 
by John Kenward Starr Reporter 

Student body candidates Andrew Bury and Alfred Sondej cam­paigned door-to-door in Flanner Hall last night. 
"We're not here to hand you any big sales pitch," Bury stated. 
When asked about the major issues of the campaign, Bury responded that he and Sondej had no specific platform, citing that all too often the platform was used merely for campaigning purposes before bing forgotten by the candidates once in office. He then went on to explain their plans for action and change within Student Government. 
"While many are advocating a complete overhaul of Student Government, such as rearranging committees, my running mate and I cannot see how it would do any good," Bury said. 
"For one thing," Sondej added, "it would take months to overhaul the system. and that's too inef­ficient." 
"What we want to do," Bury continued, "is to work within the present system and revive the Hall President's Council. It is our belief that any gripes or complaints a student might have concerning the university could be quickly pushed up the ladder of power through the 
(continued on page 5) 


919-B COLLEGE SQUARE MISHAWAKA, INDIANA ·255-0266 

"Against today's background of lurking fear I would like to speak of hope. 
Rather than the scenario of global catastrophe in the days ahead, I should like to project a new world that is possible and even probable if we will dare to think new thoughts, to engage in programs worthy of our hopes, and to share our vision with ~ll who will work with us to achieve it."-Theodore M. Res­burgh, C.S.C. 


The Humaae Imperative 
A Challenge for the Year 2000 Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Preface by Kingman Brewster, Jr. 
A distinguished citize~~t offers an agenda of hope and maps·out the Meas in-belief and action mightunite.and bring about a better world. $5.95 
Yale University Press DE! 
New Hav~ Loodon , 1111 
AT THE HAMMES 


OTRE DAME BOOKSTOR
......... 

Bury-Sondej 
us. Everybody grumbles but no

(continued from page 4) 
mass voice is heard," the SBP HPC, so that something con­hopeful stated. structive could then be done," "We think that we can mend this Bury slated. lack of action by improving 
Bury cited the power that a present Student Government and strong HPC could have by , a strong HPC which will establish recalling that coeducation, the . open methods for quick student­extension of parietals and the ' administration communication." ending of the regulation that made "This year there was no students wear a suitcoat and tie to direction for complaints," Sondej dinner. were accomplished mainly observed, "but maybe next year through the work of the HPC. we could get things organized by 
The question of dealing with the focusing everything to the ad­Administration was then brought ministration during just a few well­up. In response, Sondej noted the planned times." feeling on campus that, while Talking specifically on the Student Government was the only calendar issue, Bury expressed his means open for student­discontent and looked forward to administra1ion interaction, having the student voice felt in dealing with the administration is magnitude when the issue is futile. brought up next year. 
"To be contrary to this attitude, I "But I'm afraid that the think that there are ways to get to calendar for the year 1975-76 is them, if they refuse to listen to pretty locked up," he add,ed. reason." Sondej said. ''There was not enough student 
One student brought up the idea voice and it was too late.'' of protests as a means to get The possibility of coed dorms through to the admini!:'tration. was brought up by one Flanner 
"Mass protests would rlf'finitely resident. and the two candidates hurt the administration,·· said readily replied. Sondej, "but we are far from "I don't think WI' '11 see it this advocating them at the drop of a vear." said Burv. "The freshmen hat." ioight see coed dorms bf'forf' they 
Bury echoed this response ad­graduate. however," he added. ding that "therf''s always a chance "In that case I'll come back to of gettmg something accomplished see it." quipped Sondej. with the administration. But the After the session at Flanner, problem is to rally student support Bury and Sondej said that they behind an issue. Now we face planned to first attend the meeting great apathy among the students-­in Grace before continuing their just look what happened when an personal appearances in other unwanted calendar is forced upon halls. 
Gassinan-McGuire stress restructuring 
by Bob Madl'r to consolidate the cultural and Sta(( Reporter social services of the university. A Service Commission would handle 
Mike Gassman and Frank on-campus movies, a Social McGuire, candidates for Commission would handle all 
Student Body President and Vice­eoncerts, thereby eliminating the President. outlined their eight duplication of effort of the point platform last night before a Academic and Cultural Arts 
small gathering in the Stanford Commission. A Joint Socialbasement. 
Committee would be formed to 

The candidates emphasized a eoordinate efforts with St. Mary's
restructuring and consolidation of on An Tostal, Mardi Gras,existing Student Government 
Oktoberfest, and other projects.

commissions and positions to An Off-Campus Commission provide a "more effective and would replace the one Off­business-like operation." They Campus advisor presently in also outlined a program to create Student Government. This 
lim's of communication between eommission would take care of the 
students. faculty,and ad­food co-op, and a newsletter. 
ministration. and a number of Gassman and McGuire's most 
student services. 
difficult endeavor will be their 

Stressing that the I:Iall proposal for the SBP and SBVP to Presidents Council. student sit as ex-officio members with 
representatives on the SLC, and speaking privileges on the Board of the various student government Trustees. The hopefuls stated that commissions presently are "un­thev have heard the Trustees are 
eoordinated in their efforts," interested in reli<1ble student 
Ciassman and McGuire proposed a representation at their meetings. 
Student Body Congress. 
They also presented two student The Congress would have service programs. They said that no legislative power, but would with a united effort with faculty
inform mf'mbers of student members. student governmentgovernment's general policy would be able to obtain foundation 
direction for the semester. It would grants for projects for projectsmeet twice during the year. once in 
such as the Sophomore Literary

the first two weeks of the year, and Festival, The Collegiate Jazz near the end of the first semester, Festival, and the Midwest Blues and in response to any crisis, such 
(continued on page 11) 

as this year's calendar and 
l
Friday, February 28, 1975 
the observer 5 
1 
Culligan-Macauley: 1 student-centered govern.ment l 
by Tony Proscio and "• decentralization in com-staff Hepm·ter munication channels" are still needed to make Student Govern-,
Jack Culligan says student ment more effective claimed. 

government needs to be more Culligan.

student -centered. 

"The only way you can get"Students have little to say about 
students interested in Student
what happens to them," he said in Government is to show that you're an interview yesterday. "We want interested in them" he added.

people to have some say in running ''The two complaint nights we'vetheir own lives." 

had have helped a lot. RegularCulligan and runmng-mate Bill sessions like those can let Student Macauley are seeking Student Government know how theBody President and Vice­students feel on certain issues."
President posts. 

The current administration, he"The only way to get anything continued, has begun to increasedone is to get students united student participation, and tobehind one candidate," he said. 
regain the "respect" of universityThat means we have to convince officials lost by previous govern­students we really mean this." 
ments. Communication and publicity 
''We need to get Fr. Burtchaell's are two of the ways they suggest to respect and to show him that weunite student support. Regular want to work with him. You have"complaint nights". closer contact to reason with the administrationwith the Hall President's Council or they won't reason with you." 


Corpora-Spur ling: n1ore student input 
basketball ticket controversies. A second proposal called for a 
IN CONCERT 

Business Coordinator to take over the duties of the Treasurer and the Comptroller. The Coordinator 

SEALS & CROFTS

would have to be a finance or ac­counting major and he would be 
SUN. MARCH 2 7:30P.M. 

responsible for a weekly audit of the books and a monthly report. 
NOTRE DAME ~~~~~~IC AND CONVOCATION 

Gassman and McGuire believe this move would prevent excess ad­Tl('KET PHI('ES: ministrative costs and allow closer 
.\1.1. ('IL\IH TYPE SEA 

control of funds. 
$fi.HH 

The candidates put forth a plan BLK\('JIEHS $:;.flU 
FOR THE BEST 
Tickets now on sale: 1'\0TRE DAME,

L SAT 
1\.C.C. BOX OFFICE
PREPARATION 
Mon.-Sat.

CLASSES NOW FORMING 
9 to 5
TO BE HELD IN 

LAYFAYETTE, INDIANA 
l'NION TICKET OFFICE

ON MAR. 16, 22. APR. 6, 13 LIMITED ENROLLMENT FOR INFORMATION WRITE OR 
Robertson's 
South Bend & Concord Mall 

CALL 3 1 2 ~ 78 2 ~ 2 1 8 5 
St. Joseph Bank and branches 
First Bank mail'l oHice onlyI E.lk<trt Truth 

L.S.A.T. PREPARATORY SEMINAR I 
7 SOUTH DEARBORN . 
' CHIC·"C.;-: II . t 16~ 
hy Maureen Flynn Starr Reporter 
Campaigning last night in the South lounge of Walsh Hall, SBP candidate Joe Corpora and his running mate Jim Spurling outlined their student government platform whose theme is "Im­proved communications ... More Student Input." 
ln an effort to improve com­munications at Notre Dame and develop a better rapport between students, between the student body and the administration, and bet­ween the student governments of Notre Dame and St. Mary's, Corpora and Spurling made the following proposals: 
1 l The opening up of student government meetings to students and to the interested public. 
2l The publishing of a monthly newsletter containing a report of the Student Government finances. 
3l The establishment of a Dial­an-Officer program. under which students would be able to contact a student government officer at certain hours of the day and ex­press their views on any aspect of student government. 
4 l The planning of more and better eombined activities between Notre Dame and St. Mary's
College. · "We want to make student government a more viable and a more visible organization," ex­plained Spurling. Corpora cited the issuing of a monthly financial statement as an example of plans to open up student government. "Every year each student pays a $14 Student Government fee," he noted. "We believe the students have right to know what is done with this money," Corpora addP.rl. 
In addition. Corpora and Spurling outlined a plan to in­crease student involvement in Student Government through increased representation. 

"We'd like to have an off-campus student representative to the Hall Presidents' Council," Corpora explained. "We would also have a representative to Student Government from each hall to re doe~ ~ot, however·. rul~ out 
ra11es an non-cooperatiOn. 
"The first resort is always 
publicity", he explained "Com­munications is necessary on both sides, but if the administration isn't going to respect the students, how can the students be expected to resoect the administration? 
"But a strike is a difficult thing to do" he said."A real strike--in the sense of not going to classes-isn't constructive. A night-time rally, something to show the students are really supporting a position, would be more effective." 
Organization and com­munication, Culligan added, take time and responsibility. "The candidate himself," he suggested, is the real issue. 
"The SBP's job is to oversee all the operations of Student Govern­ment. You have to get somebody responsible for that." 
.........
~~~~~~~ 



' Rocco·s ,
f 537 N. St. Louis Blvd. tf the finest in • & * PIZZA f f ITALIAJ'\ FOOD ~ ~ * YOUR FAVORITE •t BEVERAGES f ' FRIENDLY ATMOSPHERE t ~OPEN TUESDAY-SATURDAY~ A AT 5:00 DAILY .....A
....~~~~~~.-., 
participate in debate and discussion, and post the minutes of 
RJVEBPARK 
Student Government meetings in 
MISHAWA~A AVINUI AT 30TH
their halls." Corpora and Spurling also plan 
NOW SHOWING 

to appoint a committee of representatives to the various 
ART CARNEY, 

University offices, from the 
NOMINEE BEST ACTOR
Laundry Service to the Housing Office. 
ACADEMY AWARDS! 
"We're making it easier by establishing direct lines of com­munication," Spurling em­phasized. 
Other items of the candidates' platform included the establish­ment of committees to investigate and take action on issues such as parietals. the Dean's list, the drinking age, laundry facilities for male halls, improved art depart­mf'nt faciliites and the establish­ment of an accredited Community Service course. 
The last item would allow students working with such organizations as MECHA. CILA, Nf'ighborhood Study Help Program. and the Logan Center to receive one semester's credit for their involvement. 

~----------------------------------~ 
Get coUege and England and you together next faD. 
What an exciting way to add something unique to your college experience! Join the University of Evansville at our Harlaxton Study Centre in England next falL '!ou'1_1 ea':l a full year of colleQe credits for classes held in our beautiful V1ctonan manor. And you II have plenty of time to travel in London, Paris, Rome -t~~oug~­out Europe. The cost, including room, bo~rd a~d tuition, IS $3,400. Open to all qualified college students, mcludmg freshmen. Fully accredited. But enrollment is limited. so send the coupon today for complete details. No obligation. · 

r -------------------------------------------------------,
Yes! I want to know more about the University of Evansville Harlaxton Study Centre I in England. Please rush complete details. 1 
I

NAME---------------------------------------~ 
ADDRESS•----------­STATE,_____ZIP·_____ 
I will be a college FR SOPH JR SR \please arcle one l 
TO: Director of Admissions 
Dept: 43 
University of Evansvme 
P.O. Box 329 [vansvllle. Ind. 4 7702 

• 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Compared to others 
Grad school rated good 
by Fred Herbst Staff Reporter 

While the quality of Notre Dame education is generally associated with the undergraduate depart­ments, the graduate school of the University more than holds its own. 
Dr. Robert Gordon, vice president for advanced studies, said that the Notre Dame graduate school compares "fairly well" to other graduate schools throughout the nation. 
The accepted indicator of graduate school quality is the American Council on Education. In a 1964 study. the Council ranked six of the 17 departments at the University offering the doctorate degree in the nation's top 20. The most recent study (1970) of the ( 'ouncil ranked 13 of the 19 departments offering the doctorate degree in the nation's top 20. Of the six that were not ranked, two received honorable mention and one was a new department. The 1970 study also showed that all six 
of the departments ranked in 1964 
"The graduate student recognition. 
Also, of 360 schools in the nation, 
is principally a student, Notre Dame's business grad school is one of only 39 asked to join the Graduate Business Administration 
who's here to get 

Council. Malone said, "In terms ofan advanced degree" recognition of our peers, we're one of the best." 
moved up in ranking. 
The Notre Dame graduate school is also in the nation's top 50 in the number of PhD's produced. 
(iraduate housing 

Gordon discussed the graduate housing situation at the University, stating that the limited amount amount of graduate housing has a "very marked affect" in the at­tempt to attract students. 
Currently, 300 of the University's !BOO graduate students live on campus. Gordon indicated that this situation is "typical" of graduate schools around the nation. 
While there are no specific plans for increasing graduate housing, Gordon said. "The University is committed to graduate housing." Gordon noted that the problem with building is keeping cost low enough so that "the cost to the student is within his pocketbook." 
Gordon pointed out that the current graduate dorms "weren't designed for graduate students" and termed them "hand-me­downs. We've been trying since 
University gives s1 000 donation to Lit Festival 
The University has donated a gift of $1000 to the 1975 Sophomore 
I.itt>rary  l<'estival,  festival  
\'hairman  Chris  Mahon  revealed  
today.  

"Wl' didn't really expect it," 1\lahon said, "but we didn't have anything to lose, so we went over, and they were very nice about it. I'm very happy." 
E\'ery year the festival com m1ttee approaches the various l'Olleges in an effort to raise funds to support the annual event which is free and open to the public. 
This year the committee con­tacted University provost Fr. James Burtchaell. who consulted University President 1-'r. Theodore Hesburgh. The decision was made to contribute $1000 to the Sophomore Literary Festival, which operates on a budget of $11,000. 
"We were concerned with the budget this year," Mahon stated. ''We didn't want to go overboard. We're pretty much right on the line this year." 
The funds are· used to pay speakers' stipends, travel, and lodging expenses. · 

Observer lnsiraht 
1971 to gel a hall built for graduate excellent and are able to compete students", said Gordon. in all." 
John Malone, associate dean and Role of Grad Students director of the graduate division of business administration, views the Edward Jerger, associate dean role of the graduate student at that of engineering, views the role of of improving his job skills. Malone the graduate student as "studying said that his department attempts and doing research to become "to give equal· emphasis to both." proficient in an area of study that The reason for the majority of appeals to him." professors teaching both Favoring neither the graduate graduates and undergraduates in nor the undergraduate student, the business department iS\ ac­Jerger said that his department cording to Malone, the fact that maintains a "balanced program." there "is only one faculty and a 
In response to the fact that the good part of that faculty must teach majority of professors teach both both." graduate and undergraduate Malone said that the quality of students. Jerger said, "We like to his department's graduate school get our best professors to teach at "is not by any stretch of the both levels." imagination as good as the best in 
Jerger pointed out that there are the nation." However Malone not any problems in professor noted that business graduate scool preferences saying, "I like to has only been in existence since 
think that we hire professors 1967 and is accredited by the 
dedicated to teaching." American Association of College Schools of Business. Only one in four schools receive such 

NOW APPEARING CASEY JONES & THE CANNONBALL EXPRESS 
AND 
LISTEN 









~Shu!~~ nile r!!ut 
NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS 
on U.S. 31 Mtween lliH. So. B•d-FrN P•rkin&-613-4350 


Ir------•-------------------~,
BRING IN THIS AD FOR I ~ $1 OFF A LARGE PIZZA 
I 
I Offer Good Friday & Saturday. 
I 


I GU ISEPPE'S 
1 
Brings back the 50( Draft (during happy hour 9:30-10:30) 
DANCING TO THE 

? 1:1 E. LaSa liP 
BLUESKY BAND 
( 4 Blocks West 
EVERY FRI. AND SAT. 

ofEddySt.)
starting at 9:30p.m. 


---------------------~----~~ 
1 PITCHER OF BEER
·--------------------------­


I $1.25 

(WITH THIS COUPON)
I HAPPY HOUR DAILY 2 pm-6pm 
MOST MIXED DRINKS .SO GLASS OF BEER .25 PITCHER OF BEER 1.50 
VIEW 
NEAR OUR 
RIVER PARK 5x7 TV 
THEATRE 
m~t C!tnlnnial Janrnkr iJ.inusr 

"Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
~!:!:::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!!!:::::!:!!=:!:!:!:!::~:::::::::;:::::;:;::~:::::~ 
;:;: 35 Varieties of Pancakes ;:;: ::::chicken -Steak -Sandwiches ::~:~ ~!!!.Friday Nites: Perch Dinners :~~~: :~:::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:§?: 
Your Host

U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards, NO '50 


Cavalier Camera 
Scottsdale Mall 
next to 
Bishop's Buffet 
0 pen Till 9 p m Evenings 5 p m Sunday 

Complete Line of Camero and Darkroom Supplies 
NOTRE DAME 71·UCLA 70 
Play It Again,Digger 

He has. 

A COACH'S WORLD recalls every exciting moment of the 197 4 basketball season. This candid, outspoken diary takes you be­hind the scenes as the Irish pursue-and achieve-national prominence. All of the drama and excitement, exhilaration and disappointment of an unforgettable season is relived. Intimately. Absorbingly. And only as it could have happened under the Golden Dome. 
On Sale at the 
Hammes 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
Concerning the quality of his department's graduate scool, Jerger said, "All our programs are in the top 20." 
Bernard Waldman, dean of science, views the graduate student much the same as the undergraduate. "The graduate student is principally a student, who's here to get an advanced degree." Waldman commented. 
Noting that his department does not favor either the graduate or the undergraduate, Waldman said, "We try to obtain a balance." 
Commenting on the fact that the majority of professors in his department teach on both levels, Waldman stated that "science faculty are brought in to do two things, research and teach both graduate and undergraduate students." 
Waldman spoke of the quality of graduate study in his department saying that "in some areas we are 

(irad Student Reactions 
Bill Hinds-Smith, president of the Graduate Student Union, noted that "there are many graduate students" who feel that they are slighted by preference to un­dergraduates. 
Noting that it is important in attracting good professors, Hinds­Smith views Notre Dame as both a graduate and undergraduate school. 
Hinds-Smith cited the need for more and improved graduate housing saying that "many more !graduate students> would like to live on campus." · 
Hinds-Smith hopes to use the Graduate Student Union to im­prove conditions for graduate students by serving as a means of communications between the various departments, the students and the Administration. 






t 

of famine is not one to be treated in :such a paternalistic tone as "I admire you for seeing past home and the campus." 
Secondly and more seriously,. I see in the column an absence of logical cohesiveness which seems to transcend geographical boun­daries. To begin with, we hear of the N.D. "Moon Program," never further elaborated on. This is followed by two paragraphs of musings on the Observer. in which· we are told that its articles do not satisfy the author's "tremendous need for 'real' " (sic). Being in­trigued, J read on. In viewing American affluence, Mr. Korth suggests we not cut down on consumption, but rather "ap­
preciate" being "spoiled". This is followed by a suggestion that if in fact we want to take action, it should be done by individual effort alone. It is these two conflicting points which J would like to comment on. 
Firstly, it seems to me that the author confuses the separate problems of the inequality of comfort in the world with that of starving to death. The first problem is an endless ladder; I am more affluent than the hypothetical French student, who 

: is in turn more affluent than the man who lives off 
the rue Plantagenet, and yet we are all under the Rockefellers on the ladder of comfort. However, this is all quite extraneous to the problem of the starving man, and our collective "appreciation" is of no use to him. Secondly, I feel that Mr. Korth's call for individual effort, though reasonable, is but a small part of the solution to any world problem. I would suggest that the author is missing a significent insight for the American living abroad. To me, the lesson comes not in cataloging the cultural differences and coming away with an appreciation of America's great wealth, but rather in coming to realize the common humanity which binds all 
cultures. With this com­passion and "solidarity", the in­dividual effort is absorbed into a greater. unified effort which can only increase out of proportion to the value of that effort if it was unique. 
As for Mr. Korth's misun­derstanding ()f the financial aspects of the rice and tea meals, perhaps suitable explanation is to be found in his statement, "thoughtful writers I can easily desert halfway". I would suggest 
that he should read on until he has all of the facts. 
Respectfully, Damian Riehl Leader 
.. The Point-Counterpoint page scht'duled for today's issue has been postponed. It will appear on Wt'dnesday of next week. The postponement was due to the faihn·e of the Campus Mail system to deliver the questionnaires in timt> for the "Chosen People" to answer· them. 
All those chosen to receive a questionnaire are urged to reply as quickly as possible. If there are an~· questions or difficulties, please call Fred Graver at 1715. 

by Garry Trudeau 
Dirty Laundry 

Dear Editor: 
I am not one who is prone to writing to newspapers, my opinion being that those who say stupid things are probably not worthy of the time spent in rebuttal. There are times however, when singularly classic examples of the failure to consult the brain before speaking demand a reply, which in this case <considering the obvious examples it sights( will probably not be understood by those of the opposing viewpoint, but at least it helps me to retain my sanity. Such an example is contained in the comments of Br. Kieran Ryan concerning the proposal to install washers and dryers in the men's dorms. The following is a tran­script of a severely shunken T­shirt which 1 mailed to Br. Ryan 
today:  
Dear Br. Ryan:  
" ... The  laundry  wouldn't  have  
problems with a T -shirt..."  
The above quote is  from  the  

Obsrnt'r. Feb. 18, 1975. The T­shirt is from the Notre Dame Laundry. Sept. 1974. As you can plainly see, this T-shirt is suffering from severe shrinkage, a la N.D. Laundrv. I recall that it fit me when I-arrived at Notre !>amP. llowPver. after several washings (note the darkness of the name tagl it no longer fit very well, in fact. on me. it resembles something of a halter top. This disease appears to be a common malady with many of the un­fortunate clothes I have sentenced to the laundry service. I recall two m•w pairs of socks which I brought here in August. Mter one (1) washing, I had to send them home to my little brother. I quickly learned the fundamental rul~ of the laundry service: send only clothes which are made of in­destructable material and are at least two sizes too big. This did not solve the immediate problem however. to which several drawers of midget-sized clothing will testify. · • 
''By charging this package we feel it would be more economicaL.." Consider the dilemma of the hapless student who. in one week, changes his undershorts and socks daily (hurrah! l, and dirties 4 T-shirts, 2 flannel shirts, 1 towel and 1 pair of jeans. If he should be lucky enough to receive it in wearable condition, he has spent $3.53 and owes the laundry a 53 cent charge. <I have spent my entire "$10·dry cleaning option" in this way for 3 semesters. l The same wash could be done in commercial machines for less than $1.30! For this reason my friends and I take our dirty jeans to a laundromat where $4.50 
wear my better clothing (made of fabrics only a fool would trust to the laundry l. I am glad to see, however, that your opinion of student responsibility runs so high. 
1 can assure you that I have mutual feelings for an ad­ministration which makes such remarks. 
I would suggest that your service does perform 2 functions: 
1) In the face of current recession it helps to create jobs in the garment industry as well as encourage parents to invest in the sagging economy (especially in clothing stores). 
2l It prepares "girls" (your word, not mine) to do the laundry for their future husband support roles, while allowing the men to expect such services in the future. 
Furthermore I would like to see 
a program initiated whereby the 
maids are responsible for checking 
to see that all the men are 
changing clothes everyday and 
using the laundry service--in this 
way our mommies and dads will be 
further assured that we are being 
well cared for. 
Yours inShrunken Underwear, Thomas J. Thompson :nt05 


The Real Expert 
Dear Editor: 
The latest twist in the calendar 
fight only proves the point I made 
in my book. that "a prudent ad­
ministrator ought not to keep faith 
when by doing so it would be 
against his interest. .. those that 
have been best able to imitate the 
fox have succeeded best. ..and men 
are so simple and ready to obey 
present necessities that one who 
deceives will always find those 
who allow themselves to be 
deceived." 
Niccolo \lad•ian•lli 
Florence, Italy 


Kudos To Corgan 
Dear Editor: 1in particular l 
Dear Mr. Corgan: 
We would like to thank you for 
your enjoyable article on the 
Fordham-ND event of Feb. 25. We 
felt it accurately conveyed the 
sense of strangeness that prevaded 
the entire evening. First the lights 
went out, then the daring, fragile 
flying machine, then the lights on, 
then the strange eerie yellow glare 
that remained the rest of the 
second half, not to mention the 
"sneak fight" <Sonny Liston-

DOONESBURY 

Cassius Clay in Lewiston, Maine where are you?l made for a rather remarkable evening of hoops at the ACC. 
Most of all, we are thankful fer including the bit about the balsa wood plane. The person who brought this brilliant invention of man certainly ought to be 
congratulated for his foresight in seeing that some entertainment would be needed in lieu of the delay caused by the power failure. In this time of putting down unimaginative and apathetic students, he-she should be congratulated. A marvelous show. 
Incidentally, Mr. Corgan, the plane made several flights during the game. 
The flights themselves were beautiful. They caught the at­tention of the populus and· en­thralled all involved in the spec­tacle of flight. Not even Dwight Clay was higher. We are con­cerned with the way people react in space which is why we are particularly pleased to see air­planes and B-Ball players function in the same event. 
Anybody interested in seeing things our way should sinply take a nostalgia trip back to the early sixties and remember the words "lJp in the air Junior Birdman, flying high. high ·.high into the sky!" Once ND students get in the mood, they too will appreciate Mr. Corgan's stories. 
llpper in the Air 17ith .J unim· Birdman Society ( ND Chapter·) 


Money Matters 
Dear Editor: 

I guess I do not understand the 
entire situation. Why must Notre 
Dame continue to raise tuition, 
perhaps raised up to $4500, while at 
the same time spend our money on 
poor dining hall food and literary 
festivals where not a fair per­
centage of the student body attend 
either. 1 have nothing against 
literature but on the contrary, I 
enjoy a good book or poem or 
speaker ... but not to the tune of 
$11,0000. Yet our tuition continues 
to rise. Why? Well I guess it 
reallydoesn't really matter 'cause 
we all can afford another increase 
in tuition, we'll just drink less beer 
and date less and save our money 
to pay our tuition increase. Is not 
that right? 

Sincerl'ly yours at Notre Dame, Tim Hake 
P.S. Thanks for the four days off next semester, but two are Sat. and Sun. 

Too Much Privacy 
Dear Editor: 
What optimism is there for co­educational living on the Notre Dame campus when we are sub­ject to such negative opinions as Father James Kelly, professor in the sociology department here, who suggests that the benefits of a co-ed situation are "minimal." He was also quoted in the Observer as saying, "Weighted against the loss of privacy that results, you don't get much in return." Well at this point maybe Notre Dame students are tired and frustrated of all the privacy they receive. Walled up in their separate towers, many students feel they must have an excuse to visit friends secluded in another building, instead of being able to walk down the hall and drop in on friends. Some find they make friends easier with members of the opposite sex and it would be nicer to be living down the hall, or in the opposite section with your true friends, rather than in a building with members of your own sex with whom one is expected to get along with. 
As the administration may have 
noticed by now the dining halls and 
the library are often greater 
centers of social communication 
among the sexes than our sterile 
dorms. At times this suggests that 
only when males and femlae 
students are thrown together by 
force of habit, as a co-ed dorm 
suggests, does communication 
take place at Notre Dame. 
The increase in such com­
munication to be derived from co­
ed living are too great to be 
dismissed or minimized in the 
favor of some vague notion of 
privacy. The joint involvement in 
hall government and planning of 
social hall activities are only first 
outstanding Pxamples 
Judy Roberts 


Affluence And Flippancy 
Dear Editor: 
After reading Peter H. Korth's 
column in the Observer (25 
February 1975), I felt that some 
comment was necessary for two 
reasons. The first deals with the 
column's insultingly flippant tone. 
Although I have never been in­
volved in any of the anti-hunger 
organizations on cmapus, I 
nevertheless feel that the subject 


worth (10 pairs l can be washed and dried for less than $1.50. 
"I think the parents feel safe knowing their kids' clothes are being washing and pressed." Yes brother, I'm sure that every Monday night my parents kneel, facing the golden dome, and chant praises to the N.D. Laundry for caring for their little 20 year old son. who would probably revert to barbarianism were it not for the laundry's passionate concern for his dirty shorts. It seems that I mQre often hear other remarks from them as they replace 'over­shrunken, slightly worn clothing, oi'. 'their.· compll:lints.'that .1 never • 


-
10 the observer Friday, February 28, 1975 
seriously! falk• 





A $2500 Car 
..--........iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil art buc: h watd 

Is America racist? The Kerner Com­mission was heatedly attacked when it said that we are a racist society. That was not only treated as the wrong answer. The question itself should not have been raised, according to many of the Commission's critics. We heard that America has done well by comparison to some societies, that blacks in America are better off than whites in many countries around the world, that we have made great steps to improve race relations. You could grant all these things, and still not have reached an answer to the quite simple question: Is this a racist society? 
A few recent events have helped put that question forward once again. There was a kind of editorial panic when the unem­ployment rate--the average, that is--reached 8 percent, which was declared intolerable. But the black unemployment rate has been well over 8 percent for a very long time. Why was it not intolerable when only blacks were out of jobs? Now, with the economy hurting, almost half the blacks in their teens or twenties are out of work. We run an unemployment rate of 40 percent among these men to reach a general average of 8 percent. 
My son attends a high school where there is an active Black Student Union, where relations are placid on the surface, and where the administration takes a strongly anti-racist position. Yet when the Black Student Union ran a questionnaire, asking students whether blacks among them were inferior to whites in the school, 21 people answered "yes" to the 92 answering "no." And when the question was changed, rephrased to apply to blacks in general <as opposed to blacks in the school), the answer shifted drastically, 50 saying blacks were inferior to the 75 who denied this. The view of a large percentage was obviously that the schools blacks were all right--but that this made them exceptions to the rule. That is what passes for enlightenment or 
by Garry Trudeau 


Yes, r 7H/NI<.J'M GOOOI REAOY FOR. NOIU t.er5 7H~ fiA!W SYNOIRDVIZE 
STIIFFl /1/ATCH£5! 

li~ 
n~
GB'I 
The automobile companies, who have had a tough time selling cars this year, have blamed everybody for bad business hut 
thl'mselvPs. 
There has been an airlift of Detroit executives coming to Washington and testifying that the reason they've had such a bad year was because of antipollution devices. stronger bumpers and safety features that raised the price of the car to a point where Americans couldn't afford it. They have assured Washington that if they can just do away with all the safety equipment on their cars Americans would rush out to the showrooms and buy up everything they made. 
Horace Zinke!, who developed the Ac­cordion Hatchback (it looks like an ac­cordion when it hits another carl is one of the strongest advocates of easing up on government safety regulations. 
After testifying in front of Congress he 
granted me an interview . 
"Heaven knows, Accordion Motors is for 
safety," he said. "But we have to think of 
other things, too, like weight and mileage. 
We can give the American people the best 
car that money could buy for $2,500 if 
Washington would just get off our backs." 
"You could produce a car for $2,500?" I 
asked. 
"Right. Here's a sketch of it." 
I studied the sketch. "Why, there are no 
bumpers on it." 
"That's correct. You eliminate bumpers 
lrom a car and you save 150 pounds. The cnly time you need bumpers is when you hit something like another car or a· building. Our surveys show that only 10 per cent of all automobiles ever hit something else. There is no reason for everybody to pay extra money just because a few people are going to get in an accident." 
I looked at the sketch again. "Where are 
the windshield wipers?" 
DOONESBURY 
averseas 



The legend Of Campanale And Mortell 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.......iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii........iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii c a r a I -:1 h it:~l ie r i 
This is the legend of Crazy Campanale and Mischief Mortell, two "Not so ordinary" college girls who swore that it was possible to set> I:'Verything in Europe in one month. 
It all started out one warm November evening in the gorgeous Hotel Tiziane. The 
mapof Europe was spread out on the bed, Y.tth a lim• drawn from Rome to the :\relic <'tn·h•. including every city in-between. The date for the trip had been set; they were to leave on December nineteenth on the eleven p.m. train, with one weekend bag each, a loaf of bread, jug of wine, and plenty of vitamins. 
The day of departure arrived and Crazy and Mischief lived up to their names, along with a few more. Personally, I think "The incident Sisters" would have been a more suitable name, for international incidents are what they almost caused, more than one time 1 In Madrid, for example, while touring the Royal Palace there are to be absolutely no pictures taken-at least that is what a picture of' a camera with an X through it usually means. Mischief evidentally in­terpreted a different meaning and proceded to snap a picture of the grand ball 
·room. Six officials swiftly picked her up and ,carried her into a little room, put tl)e light uwn her, and demanded to !mow fter 
"We've eliminated them. Winshield wipers add $35 to the cost of the car, and they use up energy. In the early days we put them on the models as optional equipment because a few of our customers complained it was hard to drive when it was raining or snowing outside. Then the government insisted they had to be on all cars. Why should people who don't want windshield wipers have to pay for them?" 
"There don't seem to be any windows." 
"You don't need windows on a good car. Our engineers discovered they could save 100 pounds by doing away with windows. Actually, if you eliminate windows from a car you don't need doors, which allows you a bonus in '.\'l'ight reduction of 500 pounds. Translated into gasoline consumption, a doorless automobile will give you 1.5 more miles to the gallon." 
"You still have seats," I said happily. 
"Of course, we have seats. We're not going to sacrifice comfort. Our only concern is doing away with costly safety Ft•aturl:'s that have nothing to do with the performance of the car." 
"The gas tank looks kind ofl'unny." I commented. "It's made of Saranwrap. a specially treated ct>llophane that can hold twice the 
amount of fuel  as  a  metal gas tank.  By  
doing away with costly gas tanks  we  can  
save the consumer $75."  

"Where's the hood for the motor?" I asked. 
"It's optional. Some people like hoods; some people don't. ThPrl:' is no reason on earth why a hood should be made standard equipment." 
"It's a beautiful car," I had to admit. "Are you sure you l'an bring it in for $2,500?" "I'm certain of it," he said. "Unless the government still insists on its ridiculous regulation that every new automobile has to come with brakes." 
The next few days were basically boring, with the only excitement being: a stray dog who had latched on to the duet but the owner of their pensione, resulting in their immediate departure; they got lost in a Spanish artillery field and thought a war had broken out when they heard all the gun shots; they were proposed to by a few drunks; they ate chili for every meal and snack; and they Pnded up sleeping in the luggage racks on the trains--after all, they were kicked out of their pensione. This utter boredom did not bother Mischief nor Crazy, for they knew things would pick up soon. 
Switzerland was their next stop, to take lessons at Zermat, from the georgous in­structors. They were ski lessons of course, but neither of the girls much cared for the sport. Who wanted to learn to ski when the lessons were so much fun? Certainly not I these two. The weekend included snow ball fights, dancing, ice skating, lodge parties, many hot fudge sundaes, and an occasional try at the slopes--under close supervision of course. Why, it would have been dangerous to attempt anything without the instructors at their sides. 
Berlin, qermaf!y brought out the one ~e­hllltdredth_oher1oUsness in .the pair. Befort) 
reasons for what she had done. Four-hO!Jri..being allowed into tht> City, they were and the whole US Embassy later, Mischief warned, quizzed .lectured to, and warned was again on'her way to destroy--I mean-· again as to what the) were allowed to see. the. wot;:ld!! : . . . . .', · . · .'.&.'ana' whaf-·they were forbidden to· do: 

autri 


American Racism 9arry willa 
Personally I w~:~.s surprised they did not slip up and were not taken into captivity or sold into slavery. Much to the dismay of Paris, Holland, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Norway, Vienna, Naples and Rome--they made it out of Berlin 1 
Paris and the follies Bergere was ab­solutelly stellar. It was a \'l'fY high class type of burlesque, done in excellent taste. It was not something that permitted excessive whisperring and multiple questions and answers. Unfortunately, Europe on $5 and $10 forgot to mention this fact. That 
was not as bad though, as opening the Heinekin Brewery in Holland at ten a.m.; sneezing because the Walt Disney White Stallions gave her allergies, knocking over a lantern, which in turn knocked over a pail of water, which in turn stirred up one horse, which again in turn got them all excited, which resulted in their being t•scorted out of the stables; Having a coughing fit during the solo at a Vienna Boys Choir concert; seeing the Wide World of Sports Ski Jump, and seriously thinking of jumping it for a date with a pro; or, eating too much shrimp because it is just like the shrimp mom made at home and being 
.0 ca~ried ou_t of the restaurant by two waiters. 
• N.I·aybe this ~ils a new "How to Get a Date" strategy.· \tn'a~ft:'y~(..:'l{ ~:YOrke? 1~!~ , , , 
Home ·was fmatly the next destinatiOn. Unfortunately~ with Ct"az.y Campanale in chargl:' of "directions•·: they enaed up on uie progressive views these days. 
Wl' lost 50,000 Americans in Vietnam. The Israelis have lost 15,000 in all their wars. That is a large proportion gf Israel's comparatively tiny population--but the raw numbers are not the point. An Israeli of­ficial asked Harvard professors how many of those 50,000 dead Americans they had known personally. Most of them had known none. Few knew one. Harvard did not do the dying in Vietnam, though Harvard in large measure ran that war. Our Ivy League schools, our affluent whites did not bear the burden there. A disproportionate 
· amount of this was done by those from that 
11 percent of our population which is black. The Israeli official, educated and prominent, knew hundreds of the Israeli dead, who come disproportionately from the 
most favored sectors of that country's 
society. 
Over and over we find that there are two standards, two measures, two worlds. The answer to our first question must follow in the answers to other very simple ones. 
Who is last hired, and first fired? Blacks. Are there fewer economic opportunities for blacks? Yes. 
Do blacks live in ghettos--that is. in recognizable enclaves, substantially separated from the surrounding society, with a lower living standard, less education, less crime protection, less civic services? Yes. 
Are blacks underrepresented among police, state troopers, prison guards--those who process the troubled parts of our society? Yes. Does this lead to an us­against-them attitude precisely where legal 
nl:'utrality  is  supposed  to  be  most  
pronounced?  Of course.  
Do whitPs shun and fear  the centers of  

black life? Ask the starving inner~ity businesses. 
Is there a clear pattern, getting worse, in most large metropolitan areas? Yes. What is the pattern? A white suburban rim around a black hub. 
One can try to excuse these conditions, t>xplain them historically, minimize them in one way or another. But that will not change the facts. Put in that way. the an­swer to questions like these is inescapable. Of course ours is a society structured to favor whites. Who did we think we were fooling when we tried to deny this? What good does further denial do? How can we begin solving a problem if we attempt to deny its very existence? 
If anyone tells you that America is not racist. he is hurting his country by blinding himself. Real patriotism. real love of a country worth saving, wants to know just what it must be saved from. -America must be saved from deep and endemic racism. Dr. King began the task, but it was only a beginning. 
wrong train. Fourteen hours later they stepped off in Naples with little money. but tllPnty of Pnergy. A pensione was found, 
· with an original "Italian !\lama", dying to have her son marry a REAL American. They were in store for the royal treatment. Food, food and more food, wine, tours, souvenires, and all the loving they could ~are to handle were theirs--free of charge. Roberto (the son) l'ScortPd them to all the hot spots as if he were a tour guide. He was in all his glory--not knowing which one he would rather marry. Mischief and Crazy left Naples unexpectedly, without even saying goodbye. You see--Roberto was only 15 years old 1 
Home was finally just around the corner. They arrived on Saturday before classes were to begin. Exhaustion set in, but luckily enough they had returned all in one piece. That thanks goes to me! Why Me?? Because I am their Guardian Angel. With the population explosion, we're all required to take two humans nowadays. I do not know how I ever kept theru out of serious trouble. It was definitely a challenge. If I was not already in heaven--I would say I would go to Heaven for accomplishing what I did! 
Ther;e is a moral to .this legend somewh­
ere. Let me see if l-ean put it together~ Oh--1 ~ave it"-"Life and• gravelling is just one damned . thing after another' ' and wi.thouf my help on that trip, Crazy and Mischief would certainly be damned! ' 1 




---~-~------~----~-~---------------~---. 
Friday, February 28, 1975 the observer 11 
-
lectures, campus news and sports, all student government meetings, and recent movies. They said the project has the support of rs. Joyc~ and Schlaver, and WNDU 

Gass:man­Byrne-Fitzgerald encourage

McGuire 
manager Bazil O'Hagan. Jordan 

getting to kno-w candidates 
(continued from page 5) Enterprises, a cable TV consulting 
''I feel confident that the key to a more student participation," he 
he said. "We also tried to avoid r----------~---------------a 
successful student government is added. TOM'S UNIVERSITY STANDARD I
making idle promises,"he added. I . Istudent unity and student support. 
Concerning the new calendar 

Just talking about goals isn't The actual platform was 17993 STATE ROAD 23 272.0083 I
I
Boyle noted that in 1971 the 

Pnough. What is needed is door to students obtained a suitable described by Byrne's running door work to obtain pledges for a change and he is confident that it mate, Tom Fitzgerald. Fitzgerald I ~~ I 
referendum." Boyle said. The explained that their efforts cen­
can be done this year as well. I CONVENIENTLY LOCATED ~•ikm-> I 
students have rights which should, tered around three ideas; and for me, will be defended by the "The extra three days off for reorganization, communication II AT THE CORNER OF ~~~R~ II student government. What is Thanksgiving are not and representation. IRONWOOD AND STATE 
unreasonable and I'm confident ROAD23 ~needed is the unity and support of 
Student government
that the calendar change can bethe students," he added. 

rPm·ga nizalions I ~ I
gained with a combined effort and I ACROSS FROM THRIF-T-MART IBoyle feels that overall im­support of the students," Boyle 
I 10 PERCENT DISCOUNT TO N.D. & S.M. C. STUDENTS I
provement of relations with the said. In regards to reorganization, the Administration can be obtained by Byrne ticket proposes three 1 COMPLETE CAR CARE I
Boyle noted optimism that soon

backing the reasoning with action. measures: I I
legislation will be passed to allow 
1l bring the Student Union

"Reasoning alone isn't enough. 
underage drinking in private in­

director, HPC president, and SLC I SALE I WITH THIS AD IThe administration's policies will stitutions and favors its support. 
representative into the cabinet of

be affected only if the reasoning of Boyle views his experience as the Student Government. I I the student opinions are backed chairman of Junior Parents 2) combine the duplicated I DE-ICER 59¢ Iwith some solid action and the 
Weekend as "invaluable" in giving I I
services of commissions

student government should him a taste of responsibility and 
3l create a central file for

organize this action," Boyle 
organization. He greatly in­I WASHER SOLVENT 69¢ I
collection of all committee ad­

suggested. 
creased the number of people visory reports.

Boyle also recommended involved in the weekend because In the area of communication I SNOW BRUSH 50¢ I
publishing a student government he feels that the more involved the newsletter to the alumni so that better it is. If elected, he would I I
Communication 

alumni have an accurate idea of like to institute a program of short I tiMIT ONE ITEM PER CUSTOMER 
I 

what students are about here. weekly meetings in different In the area of communication,dorms to get to know first hand the 




L-------------------------­
three proposals have been made. 

Festival. firm, has offered to present their by Ken Girouard The candidates also said the 
case before the Administration if Staff Reporter University currently owns a third 
they are elected. of the cable television service "Some people have accused us of Ed Byrne, candidate for student 
extreme radicalism ," Gassman

running through campus, and body president, and his running 
within a year and a half a great said, "But we're not radical at all. mate, Tom l<'itzgerald, held a rangeof services can be provided by Everything we've proposed is very presentation last night at Breen­
concrete, except for the Board of

the system. After initiation of the Phillips Hall as part of their program, Gassman stated, basic Trustees proposal, which we've campaign efforts. The primary 
programming such as reception of still got to work out. Also, we're purpose of the meeting was to not \Tl'ating a huge bureaucracy
Chicago stations may be had in explain their platform and to
like some have said. There won't

five months. At the completion of . answer any questions that students the system, students will be able to be anymore people in Student might have. have access to library-taped 
Government than there are 
Before explaining his positions,presently," he explained.

reference material, on-campus 
Byrne stressed that students should not be fooled by not be fooled by candidates platforms, noting that "platforms are very easy to make." Instead, he urged that students "get to know the candidates," either by attending 

Boyle looking for 
.more student unity 
the various forums or by talking to by Shawn Scannell "Organizations like Students and friends. Staff Repl'rter Alumni Relations Group <SARGl 
Byrne then spoke of the
and the SLC can be improved by 
philosophy behind his platform.

Student Body President hopeful t>xpanding inadequate structure to "In setting up our platform, we
Pat Boyle called for student unity become more efficient in dealing tried to avoid catch words andto defend student rights with the with matters at Notre Dame," 
cliches, such as "Burtchaell,

administration. Boyle said. "What is needed is Macheca, calendar, and apathy," 
feeling of the students.

SMC committee They are: 
"The student government needs Il issue a student government

formed to judge feedback from the students and newsletter in ordt'rto keep students their involvement. I'd like to see aware of Student Government more publications coming out of activity.

eva!uation forms 
the student government to let the 
2) meet regularly with hall

An ad hoc committee has been students know what the govern­formt>d to evaluate the present mt>nt is doing.well on and what is council representatives to ac­
tt>acher evaluation forms at St. holding things up. Feedback to curately determine student opinion ·on to successful
Mary's. this information is essential for a issues, share 
A ·resolution presented to the programs of one hall with otht>rs
successful and productive student 

Faculty Assemblage by its government," Boyle said. and to help coordinate action Executive Council last week states between halls and quads.
Boyle feels his experience in

that "the Faculty Assemblage 3l send out questionnaires to 
getting people involved will

Pstablish an ad hoc committee that Alumni to determine their opinions 
will devise new ways in which greatly aid him if elected student on University issues and letters to 
body president.

students may significantly con­enlist their support.
"Through this position in the

tribute to faculty evaluation and 
student government, the students'

participate in the promotion and Hepresentation
rights will be defended, their needs

tenure decisions affecting faculty 
heard, and appropriate action

mt>mbers at St. Mary's College." Byrnes platform stressed 
taken in their interests," Boyle

Dr. Hi ta Cassidy, associate representation in groups which 
affirmt'd.

professor of history, and chairman affect the students the most and he 

of the Faculty Assemblage, said ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
the committee was formed "in 
•

response to comments of the • 
faculty over a period of time." ITALIAN NIGHT
•

According to the resolution, "the • regular evaluation of faculty •
•

mt>mbers has been inadequately THIS SATURDAY I conceived and is often poorly •
•

administered." • The seven-member committee 
•
• COMPLETE LASAGNA

was chosen on a volunteer basis, • 
with five members representing •
• DINNER $1.50

various departments and two • 
student representatives: Sister •
•

Jt>an Kiene-English, Dr. Harold • 
Weiss -Religious Studies, Ruth • REMEMBER MONDAYS -ALL
•

Hoffman-Modern Languages, Dr. • 
THE CHICKEN YOU CAN EAT

David Sever-Biology, James 
•

• Haymo -Art, Joan Durlacher ­
FOR $2.00

Student Assembly Representative 
•

for LeMans Hall and Kathy McGuinness-Vice President of the • Junior Class. 
• 

The committee will review teacher evaluation forms and 
• 

methods from other colleges as • well as St. Mary's v'iew of a better • form. The committee has not met • formally but is "expected to begin work soon. •
• ..............~.....5. 

r '1 f 1 '' 
Guys & Gals Smoker Sat. March 1 -8 pm till ??? American legion Post 50 1633 Bendix Drive Free Games Free Beer gambling Food Donation $1 .50 -232-0031 $2.00 at the Door 
-
-



frigl!l.oa.
G"ierland itage co. 

This phenomenal group does everything from down-home bluegrass to contemporary pop 
**APPEARING** Ja:30 p.m. -3 Shows Nightly Feb. 26th thru March 1st $2.00 Cover Charge 
ALSO FEATURING TANGLWOOD FOR YOUR DANCING PlEASUR 
~52890US.31NorthVo ~ South Be~, Indiana 46637 
1) request representation on the Board of Trustees. 
2) continue association with the Indiana Student Association presently lobbying for a lower drinking age. 
3) student representation in neighborhood groups in areas of off-campus student concentration. 
Byrne also pointed to several activities begun recently which he felt should -be continued: the Hunger Coalition, food co-op research. the Nazz and Darby's !'lace. the Free University and the North Quad 
Party. 
Byrne summed up his presen­tation by urging students to get to know the candidates. "Know more abou( the candidates than about the platform," Byrne said. 

THE ROMA
GSU discusses LeW'is petition: 
PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD Your .Host Frank Anastasio


appoints special co:m:mittees 
'A PIZZA YOUCANNOT REFUSE' 
by Mary Reher are interested in; they want to Fisher and Barb Bowler. 

LIVE BANDS ON WEEKENDS
Staff Reporter know how much we want to spend An Election and Credential and where we want it to be Committee was also establsihed at I Call 234-3258 For Delivery

A petition protesting the con­located," said Smith Hinds. the meeting, with its purpose being version of Lewis Hall was The administration has made a to elect representatives to the · 
219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtown 
discussed at the Graduate Student G .S.U. thos those departments
survey of graduate student interest 

Union At North End Of 1_River Bend Plaza


meeting yesterday ir. the Library Auditorium. 
Copies of the petition will be sent to every administrator, the Board of Trustees, the Lewis Foundation and the University at large. 
William Smith-Hinds, acting president of the Graduate Student llnion. noted, however, that sen­ding the petition to the Board may involve some difficulty. An at­tempt to contact the Board of Trustees earlier this semester proved troublesome due to a policy that students must first deal with a member of the admmistration and then with the President of the Board. who then decides whether or not to brm!! •th• matter before the Boarrl. 
At present. '1.27 graduate students have s1gned the petition. hut in order to mcrease the number of signatures, a mot10n was made to delay sendmJZ the petition for at least a WPek. so that there would be mon· time to collect signatures. 
( 'ontmnmg on w1th the business 
of the meetmg. ~mith-Hinds da1med that Ann Teresa Palmer, president of the G .S. U. last semester. had not officially notified the G.S.U. of her resignation from the position. 
"1 was told she sent me a resignation letter," Smith-Hinds said, "But I never received it." 
It was decided to send Palmer a registered letter demanding a written resignation. 
Financial Report Given 

Delivering the financial report, Treasurer Roger Powell described the condition of the the three ac­counts held by the G.S.U. 
Houghtly $2500 out of $2900 in the 
<i.S.U. account was spent on such things as entertainment and photocopying , yielding a balance of $324," Powell said. 
The bank account at St. Joseph Bank and Trust Company has a maximum balance of $200, determmed bv the Univer­sityadministration and the G.S.U. several years ago. "It has a current balance of $223." claimed Powell. 
"I do not thmk we should have a 
limit on the IJalance and I think we 
should be able torlo what we want 
with our moneY · saJd Powell. ''I 
think a ('hange is needed so that if 
we woulrl he mterested in gettmg 
interest on the monev we should be 
able to invest 1t as \.:e see fit." 
The purpose of this account is to supply grad students with cash for incidental fees not related to university activities. he observed. 
Smith-Hmds-later announced 
that f'r. Thomas Tallarida, 
director of off-cam pus housing, has 
prepared a list of off-campus 
housing for graduate students 
onlv. 
··"rhe administration has said they are comm1tted to putting up a grad housing complex and they need information on what we 
]r. class mass moved to 6:30 
The special Junior Parents' Weekend mass in Sacred Heart Cathedral. with University President Theodore Hesburgh as celebrant. was moved back from 5 
p.m. to 6:30 p.m., according to Junior ClasF President Augie Grace. 
Grace stressed that all 
juniors. regardless of whether or 
not their parents have come up for 
the weekend. are invited. 
The Junior Parents'Weekendwill 
also feature a series of 
collegiate workshops on Saturday 
mormng . in which the parents
will get the opportunity to learn more about the college their 
son or i,.ughtt>risenrolledin.and
what ··ir parucuiar maJor has to 

in 1972, noted Smith-Hinds, but without any at the present time. , there was a poor response. The committee would compile a ··~,!!"----------------"""!"'_------~--"'!!!!!!!!'!_!!'!""---·--·--·-111!-~__..,____...... 
A Housing Committee was also list of the names and addresses of f established to workon a graduate all the representatives and also t t survey of the housing complex and 
prepare for the G.S.U. officer 
CAFE d I N •t 
also help new students by sup­

plying them lists of off-campus :~~~~~~-n~;m~~~s ~~dth~f c:!~ t e 0 U I t housing. Members of the Housing mittee are Gail Herndon, Terry t f Committee are Don Roy, Craig Johnson and Guido Carrusi. t t 
after the bars... 
t got the munchies? f 
t tl TRY THE CAFE'S l 
l lATE NIGHT CUISINE l 
t t
t featuring: Steak & Eggs t 
f Omelettes t f for your late night dining fl pleasure Open 11 :00 p.m. l 
ONE OF the maoy ,;,., ""';d.,ed lo' gcad •tudeot ho.,;og ;, the 

L~~~~!:~~~_::;~~~~_:b_:': ff 
field north of Holy Cross. Hall. 


r a ruer un er an 1ng of the·man who left a lasting legacy of honor and glory to the game of football and the University of Notre Dame. 


Wells Twombly is a featured sports columnist for The San Francisco Examiner; winner of many awards for outstanding journalism; the author of Blanda, and Fireworks and Fury. 
366 pages, 25 photos, available in October $8.95 
"It was never necessary to identify which coach we were talking about. There was only one Coach, and you spelled it with a capital letter. No other man in his pro­fession could compete with him in any way ... He was The Coach-The Master Coach ... Frank Leahy was the greatest man I ever knew. His story should not be permitted to die." -Billy Sullivan, former president, New England Patriot• 
" ... He was damn close to being a saint." -Roger Valdleierrl, Sports Information Director, Univer.ity of Notre Dame 
<·



AT THE 

Reserve your copy of SHAKE DOWN THE THUNDER! now, at the campus bookstore. Or order from Chilton, enclosing check/money order for $8.95, 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME s·ooKS·TORE 
offer ~~----------------------------------------------~----~----------~~~~----~--~~--~~------~ 
-. 

Friday, February 28, 1975 
the observer 13 
Agree on Democratic program 
Task forces reject decrease in oil imports 
WASHINGTON <UPI) Responding to criticism from President Ford, House and Senate task forces agreed Thursday on an alternative Democratic energy Program. 
But they rejected Ford's call for a quick, sharp cut in oil imports. 
The Democratic program would increase gasoline taxes by five cents a gallon to finance reasearch, exploration and con­servation measures which in the long run would reduce America's dependence on imported oil. 
Privately, House Democrats conceded the compromise plan 

Molecular biologists com.e to agreem.ent 
PACIFIC GROVE, Calif., <UPil A few researchers present ex­
-An extraordinary meeting of the pressed dissatisfaction with world's molecular biologists portions of the statement and at reached a unique tentative one point Nobel Laureate Joshue agreement Thursday on research Lederberg complained that "very guides to keep man-made "bugs" complex issues are being from accidentally ravaging the railroaded." earth's population. 
was vulnerable to further attack from the administration on grounds it would do little to achieve a reduction in imports soon. 
But both the administration and the Democrats talked com­promise. 
Federal Energy Administrator Frank Zarb, in congressional testimony and later in a speech, said both sides should sit down quietly to negotiate before Congress votes on whether to override Ford's expected veto of a bill to suspend his oil import tariff increases. 
Now that a Democrat alternative 
plan exists, "We're hopeful the 
President will invite us to the 
White House to see if we can't get 
together," Sen. John 0. Pastore, 
D-R.I., told reporters. 
The agreement waf" hammered 

Biologists feared these organisms might escape the 




SMC salaryincrease

laboratory and infect humans and plants with no natural resistance to them. 
:meets faculty praise

At the urgent plea of U.S. and 
British groups last summer, scientists worldwide suspended certain experiments, pending the meeting at the Asilonar Con­ference Ground south of San Francisco. Scientists from 16 nations attended. 
In the last five years scientists have learned to use enzymes to cut and rejoin DNA molecules, the genetic material that determines life forms. Thus genes can be combined with bacteria common to every human stomach and rapidly reproduce. 
The ability to transplant genes offers the promise of a solution for human ailments, plus enlarged food production. But research was halted last summer because of two specific fears. One was the possible escape of bacteria in­fected with cancer genes and the other was possible escape of bacteria with transplanted genes resistant to known antibiotics. 
In four 13-hour days, 150 scientists -ctPtailed their work and agreed en a 2.500 word draft saying most research should now resume but under strict conditions. 
The statement. subject to revision. would ban any gene transplant involving certain fatal viruses until technology is im­proved. With other expermients, the draft specified numerous safety precautions. Such volun­tary restrictions have little precedent among scientists. 
Accounting group to provide link 
A group of junior accounting majors, in conjunction with faculty members Dr. Raymond M. Powell, 
C .P.A. and Prof. William E. Slowey, C.P.A., has formed an organization to provide a link between the accounting classroom and the business world. 
Membership in the Notre Dame Accounting Association <NDAAl is open to all Notre Dame accounting majors and Saint Mary's College business students. Registration of new members will take place on Thursday and Friday, March 6th and 7th in the lobby of the Hurley Building from 12:30-4:30p.m. 
Association president Jim Hummer said, "We've contacted all the major public accounting firms. Several of the firms have pledged their cooperation and feel that the association is a very worthwhile endeavor." 
The Association is currently planning two lectures and a field trip to a Chicago accounting firm. Future projects include a tutoring program, a research publication and various social activities. 
"The Association hopes to make the students more aware of what to expect from a career in ac­counting. The students who join the Association will benefit greatly from what thev learn and the contacts which. they make;'' HummPr ad~':! · 
b~· Anna Monardo Staff Reporter 
Faculty response to yesterday's announcement of St. Mary's Board of Regents approval for an in­crease in faculty salaries was positive. 
The Regents approved three recommendations concerning faculty salaries and exempt ad­ministrative pt>rsonnel. The first recommendation set the minimum starting salary for a full-time instructor at $9,000 and increased compensation for part-time faculty to $950 per three credit hours course taught. Secondly; most full-time faculty and ad­ministrative staff receive an in­tTease equal to six percent of their present salary. The third recommendation was for an allocation of an additional two percent of the present faculty and administrative staff budget on the basis of merit. 
Dr. Rita Cassidy, professor of 
history and chairman of St. Mary's 
~'acuity Senate, commented on the 
board's decision. "The HPgPnts 
have done an excellent job. The 
proposals passed were an excellent 
piPcP of work. We are all quite 
pleased, Cassidy said. 
Cassidy said that a number of 
things must be considered as to 
whether the increase is enough to 
meet the demands of inflation. 
"Individuals have inflation and colleges have inflation as well. We 
must be concerned with each other's inflation. We must be careful not to miss the forest for 
the tree~:;. This has to be a com­munity operation and we all have to sacrifice. The Board has seen a problem and reacted to it in a positive way," she said. 
The Committee on Professional Welfare submitted the report to the Board of Regents which included the salary increase recom­mendations. Dr. Donald Horning, professor of sociology and chairman of the committee, commented, "It is a complex ten­page report which includes an analysis of past salaries, an ex­planation of where the faculty stands with reference to inflation and an analysis of why we were presenting the recommendations," Horning said. 
Horning said that the Regents approved all the points in the report, which was quite unusual. 
"The faculty was very pleased with the Board after Dr. Hickey announced the decision, and they made no attempt to modify it. The recommendations are now in the process of being implemented." Horning stated. 
Prof. Linnea Vacca of the English Department and former chairman of the Faculty Senate commented that the increase was not really enough to deal with inflation, but given the cir­cumstances, the board's decision was quite approvable. 
"The faculty doesn't want an increase in tuition either. If there was more, I'd be delighted, but the present increase is acceptible," Vacca said. 
MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES 2 FILMS
* 
BOOKSTORE
* 


LIVE FLOOR SHOW
* 
1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
.k~t ~~2-~~~~ FOR INFORMATIO~ 

out in a closed meeting between a --Impose a graduated excise tax committee headed by Pastore and on new automobiles which get appointed by Senate Democratic worse mileage than the average Leader Mike Mansfield and a new car and grant a tax rebate on House task force appointed by new American cars with better Speaker Carl Albert and headed by than average mileage. Rep. James Wright, D-Tex. --Increase Social Security 
The White Housesay~Ford is now benefits by approximately 8.7 per confident of blocking a two-thirds cent retroactive to Jan. 1, 1975. vote in the Senate but Senate GOP The administration has proposed Whip Robert P. Griffin of Michigan keeping this year's cost of living told a reporter: "I don't know increase at 5 per cent, starting where he's getting his count; it's in July 1. doubt." --Reject Ford's proposal to 
The Democratic plan rejects remove price controls on oil most of the key elements in Ford's produced domestically and on energy program, which was natural gas which is shipped designed to curb consumption by across state borders. raising the price of fuel $30 billion a --Impose an excess profits tax on year. large oil companies. 
In addition to imposing a five­--Result in a fiscal 1976 budget cent gasoline tax to raise $5 billion deficit $10 billion more than the for research, the Democratic plan $53.7 billion deficit the ad would: ministration foresees. 
. Corby's 
THE ROMA 
welcomes our Notre Dame & St. Mary's friends 
your hOSt, FRANK ANASTASIO 
*PIZZA* ITALlAN FOOD *LIQUOR
Appearing this weekend for your dancmg pleasure: "Pleasant Street Band."' Live music 4 nites a week. We're open until 4 a.m. on weekends (~pr late nite munchies). 
For deliveries call 234-3258 
219 N. Michigan Avenue 
J)owntown South. Bend.lnext to .Morris. Civ.lc). 

WARM ATMOSPHERE GOOD PEOPlE QUIET liTURGY SUFFICIENT SUPPER TONIGHT 
& 

EVERY FRIDAY SPM BUllA SHED 






NICKlE'S 
PRESENTS 


60 HOURS 
OF THE LOWEST BEER 
PRICES IN THE COUNTRY! 
MON, TUES, WED: 
NOON  MIDNIGHT  
THURS, FRI, SAT:  
NOON  -8:00 P.M.  

PLUS THE BEST HALF-POUND CHARCOAL1 :GRitLED HAMBURGERS IN "TOWN 
j 
] l 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
j 
i 
-1 

1 
Friday, February 28, 1975

14 the observer 
Diamond lectures on abortion 
by Virginia McGowan year as compared to 14 deaths due to the uneven distribution of press," while in reality opposed by legislatures.Staff rt'porter from legal abortions in New York. world food supply and lack of 77 per cent of the American people. "Death with dignity bills have Diamond refuted abortion as a population growth. "Whenever and wherever this already been introduced in 5 of theCiting abortion as "the issue of birth measure Concerning the unwanted child happens, we all lose something," ad­
control because state legislatures," she saidthe twentieth century", Dr. "we are below zero population theory, Diamond observed that he concluded. ding that one such bill was p~ssed
Eugene Diamond began the last growth in this country," quoting there is a difference between an in the Florida House but failed in
presentation in the Pro-Life the average American family as unwanted pregnancy and an un­Mrs. Margie Montgomery, the Senate. 
Seminar sponsored by the ND-containing 3 people and 1.85 wanted child. executive director of the Kentucky Montgomery urged involvement
3MC L.I.F.E. in Washington Hall children. In the U.S., there have "The idea that a child could be Right to Life Association and a co­that would "attack the riotlast night before a crowd of 50 been 11 ~ million fewer births in unwanted by everybody is utter speaker at the Pro-Life Seminar, problem" in the form of politicalpeople. 1974 than in 1957. and complete nonsense," he said, viewed abortion as part of a activism and "education on everyDr. Diamond, a Chicago According to Diamond, the world noting from his professional ex­general trend toward the lt>veL" 
pediatrician and co-founder of food supply has increased perience that most women suffer derogation of the value of life in the 
She also advocated the

Birthright in Chicago, contended from negative emotions in the United States. She noted that
esponentially and far outdoes development of birth defect in­that although abortion has been population increase, even in India, early months of pregnancy. legislation that would legalize surance, low cost housing forlabeled "the woman's issue," in contrary to Malthusian theory. He Diamond asserted that abortion compulsory death at age 80, single head families, naturalreality it involves four parties: the commented that food scarcity was is "an elitist idea, advocated by the compulsory sterilization, and a bill means of family planning, and
mother. the father. the doctor and that would make having more than 
large demonstrations at least

the fetus. 2 children a crime have already twice a hear to keep the abortionElaborating on the medical been attempted in various state issue in the public eye,
aspt•cts of abortion. Diamond stated that by six to eight weeks a fetus ~as a functioning nervous system that can be recorded by feature times 'Lenny' 
an Electro Encephalogram
I SAt. SUN:3:45-5:45-7:45-9:45
(EEG l, which. by Harvard 
~ 
llnivcrsity criteria, is the standard M·T·W·T· 7:15 · 9:15 t ... for life. "To consider the fetus as not alive is biologically un­
I 
tenabiP," Diamond said.
I 
Diamond also pointed out that 
! 
t although by 10-12 weeks the fetus can feel pain, the usual D &C from of abortion used at this time does not anaesthetize the child in the 
womb. "You could not do this kind of operation on an animal," he 
,..............................................
said, "except for a human." Heferring to the recent abortion 
case in Diamond DR. DIAMOND closes Pro-Life seminar with abortion lecture (photo by
Boston, coun­

i SAVE 30% i
Chris Smith).

tered that hysterotomies, such as the one performed by Dr. Edelin, 1nvovlt> the late abortion of a baby 
Judge denies Ray's i On Pioneer i 
that "is ':!lways born alive... but • • does obligingly die." Diamond outlined four common 
bid lor neW" trial-i {1,1} PIONEER" i 
objections of members of the pro­
MEMPHIS. TENN. <UPJ) -McRae Jr. rejected Ray's : PL-1 0 : abortion movement: that legal arguments and accepted instead 
: STEREO TURNTABLE :
aborticn1 eliminates criminal James Earl Ray, convicted the state's contention that Ray abortion deaths; it operates as assassin of Dr. Martin Luther King made a "reasoned and reasonable :• Despite its simplified 2-control :• 
post conceptive birth control; legal Jr., lost a bid for a new trial decision to accept a 99-year sen­• operation, this versatile unit • abortion prevents overcrowding Thursday when a federal judge tence rather than risk the death : contains a high degree of so-: and food scarcity; and it ruled Ray's initial guilty plea in penalty" by going to trial. e phistication with advanced fea-• eliminates the dilemma of the the case was voluntary and "on the "Although the circumstances : tures l.ike: 4-poie, belt-driven : unwanted child. advice of competent counsel of his surrounding the guilty plea include e synchronous motor; static-bal-• ''You do not get rid of abortion no own choosing." conduct on the part of Ray's • anced S-shaped tonearm; ultra-• matter what you do to the law," he Hay claimed his famed defense retained attorneys that should : light tracking; oil damped cue-: asserted, quoting a Mayo Clinic attorney, Percy Foreman of have been performed differently," • ing; anti-skating control; 12-inch e study which recorded 15,000 deaths Houston, Tex., had compromised McRae said in a 36-page decision, : dynamically balanced die cast : • platter; walnut base, hinged •
due to criminal abortion as his rights and pressured him into "the total circumstances do not 
compared to 15,000 fatalities for all admitting the 1968 murder in order reflect a violation of the con­: dust cover; 331!3 -45 rpm : other causes combined, of women to preserve the commercial value stitutional rights applicable to one • speeds. • in the childbearing age. He noted of books written about the mur.der who voluntarily pleaded guilty on • • 
-• •that there were six deaths due to of the civil rights leader. the advice of competent counsel of • • criminal abortion in lllinois last But U.S. District Judge Robert his own choosing." j {1,1} PIONEERs! 
: R300 10" 2-WAY, : e 2-SPEAKER SYSTEM •
Cushing letter to Worland • • • • 
• This remarkable bookshelf unit • • is one of Pioneer's new breed • (continued from page 3) must have a voice in determining basic : of speaker systems that is des-: priorities, there is really no alternative. They • tined to become the universally • 
• preferred sound reproduction •l. As the Report of 1he Faculty Senate must be willing to put out the effort. A • system. Combining a newly de-:Committe on Recent University Budgets similar observation holds for those serving :· signed 10-inch woofer with an :(issued on September 17, 1974, to all faculty on the Executive Committee of the Senate, • improved horn tweeter, there's •members) showed, in each of the past several for instance. 
• exactly the right balance for • 
years, the University has had surplus on • smooth performance. The use •
7. The present referendum will establish how

discretionary funds available, amounting to : of exclusive FB cones provides
many of your colleagues share your view of : 
from 1.5 to 2.5 million dollars annually. • vigorous bass, mellow mid-•
university governance. 

• tones, clean-cut highs and •Essentially these funds consisted of 9. There is nothing in the Senate's proposed : minimum distortion. Drivers are :
unrestricted gifts and unrestricted 

CAP model that would allow a CAP to destroy • flush mounted up front for wid-eendowment income. Both Professor Richard a department, as you put it. Mutually • er dispersion. Decorative 2-•Lynch, Comptroller of the University, and : section removable grille in :
reciprocal accountability is not equivalent to

Father Jerome Wilson, C. S.C., Vice President • black and sunset orange with •
no accountability. Again, whether or not

for Business Affairs, were sent copies of that • acoustically padded walnut • 
most faculty members would prefer to have a

Senate report prior to Its distribution and : cabinet. 8 ohms; 40 watts peak. : 
final decision made by a third, more nearly

neither disputed tt>~ accuracy of the figures • •
neutral, party will also be established by the

presented. Please refer to your copy of that : Was $119.95 : 
present referendum.

report. Father Wilson did, however, • • vigorously disagree with the reordering of 10. The question ought not bewhetheror not : NOW $83.95 : priorities that would be implied if a sizeable there can be a preference based on religious • fraction of those funds were used for faculty affiliation, but whether there should be. For • • salary increases. views on this question, admittedly somewhat 
This brings us to the heart of the issue-­different from the ones you imply, see the !• STANTON 600EE cartridge i• priorities. It is in setting these general and recent (February 20) newsletter of the Notre 
: SAVE 50% : 
.,. 
long-range priorities that the faculty has Dame Chapter of the AAUP, summarizing virtually no input. It was for this reason that Professor William Van Alstyne's comments, • • 
: Was $55.00 :
the Senate proposed the establishment of a as well as the Report of the Faculty Senate Budget Priorities Committee. Committee the Implications of

on Legal : NOW $27.50
Since the funds do exist and since their use Religious Preference in Employment at 

• :•
is a matter of setting priorities, it does not Notre Dame (issued to the faculty on Sep­• • necessarily seem inappropriate for the tember 23, 1974.) • • faculty to urge some of these funds to be used for salary increases. It then becomes Lastly, let me point out that how many of us are incumbent upon the administration to justify happy with the present arrangement you describe 
• ~ Audio S~ecia\ists i• 
its own setting of priorities If they run in the last paragraph of your letter will be an. counter to a reasonable request. swered by the Senate's referendum. • • 
Ishall also share my views with the Editor of The i 415 North Michigan i3. You are correct that faculty participation 
Observer.

in a Budget Priorities Committee would Sincerely yours, 

: 234-5001 :
require much time and effort on the part of : . those (six or sol faculty members during . • ' • James T. Cushing • h. . .... _. ..,1. ~· .. :· 
' 
.
their three-year t.erms on that committee. 

• .. , · .. Chairman ..: .. \ ····..'····W •le supply lasts·..·... ··. •
However, if the facul'ty. feels strongly t~~t.it: • • • •"{·•.~ .~.~. -. ' . __ , .. ~ ·' ...
' .. ·..... ,. '. ' The Faculty s~·~ate 
A 'J \ . ' ' 

• ., . , .... ,. . #.,. ,. ., ~ ~ •· •·. ~ ~-1. r. ············. ....... ....... .
•......... c•••
•
-\A.' •• ,· 



········································,········· 
Friday, February 28, 1975 the observer 15 
May affect offspring 
Cancer risk unknown in birth control pills 
WASHINGTON <UPIJ -A top after DES, especially on college being dispensed on that campus government cancer researcher campuses. with "casualness and said Thursday no one really knows Rauscher said the FDA's carelessness." . 
whether women taking birth decision should be reversed if She said some coeds were able control pills may be exposing their there is evidence the DES pill to get the pills for friends or offspring to a cancer risk. cotinues to be used "for non­roommates and that 65 per cent of 
"We would expect the task to be t•mergency purposes." young women who had taken the small, but we don't know," said In approving DES for post-coital pills said they would not have done Dr. f<'rank J. Rauscher, director of contraception earlier this year, the so had they been fully informed of the Nactional Cancer Institute's FDA said its use should be the risks. National Cancer Program. restricted to rape, incest or other FDA Commissioner Dr. 
He testified at a Senate hearing emergency situations as deter­Alexander M. Schmidt told Sen. called to investigate the Food and mined between a doctor and Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., Drug Administration's recent patient. But Belita Cowan, a that the risk to women using DES decision to approve the hormonal teacher at the University of for morning-after purposes is drug DES as a "morning-after" 1\lichigan, said an FDA bulletin "very small but finite." He said birth control pill. Other witnesses issued nearly two years a go DES is remarkably effective as a said there is evidence of without some of the precautionary contraceptive. widespread misuse of morning-lanaguage had resulted in the pills "Were there a huge risk involved 

Makes $44,700 
GP signs with Air Force 
CHICAGO <UPI) -Last June, Dr. under the Air Force's "Fully to cover overhead expenses. Mario Del Beccaro received an Air Qualified Physician Recruitment "I'm going to lose some,~' Del Force enlistment brochure. On it, Program," designed to help fill600 Beccaro said, "but I will be the general practioner vacancies. The program also making more per hour. My work­scrawled "What have you got for a entitled him to a special incentive week has been running 60 to 80 43-year old GP'?" bonus of up to $13,500 annually. His hours." 
On Thursday, Del Beccaro, now income will be $44,700 including his Del Beccaro joined up for four 49, was sworn into the Air Force as bonuses and allowances--plus a years and was allowei::l to choose a colonel with a special $44,700 chance to shop in the base's cut­McChord Field near the salary and prospects of spending rate commissary. University of Washington, where more time at home with his family. The total is less than half of his his second oldest of his four 
"I'm all signed, sealed and current $100,000 gross, but his wife daughters, Barbara, 21, is 
delivered," the bearded, 6-foot-3 Grayce said about half of that goes enrolled. 
doctor from Morton Grove, Ill., 
said after the ,ceremony. 
He was ordered to report to 

COLLEGE GRADUATES!

Sheppard Air Force Base, Wichita 
Falls, Tex., for two weeks in­
Move ahead in a challenging new 
career in the field of Jaw.

doctrination, before moving his 
family • to McChord Air Force 
Be a 

Base in Tacoma, Wash. Del Beccaro, an Army rifleman in the Pacific during World War II 

LAWYERJS ASSISTANT 

and an intern doctor during the 
When you complete this intensive 12-week course for college grad­

Korean War, said he had thought 
uates, offered in cooperation with the National Center for Legal 
Training at ...

off and on about going back into the service. But he never expected anything to come of his scrawled comment on the Air Force 

ROOSEVELT 

brochure. 
. . . University in downtown Chicago, you are qualified to assume 
paralegal responsibilities as a skilled member of the legal team.

He said a receptionist mailed it 
SPECIALIZE in Corporations, Estates, Trusts and Wills, Litigation, 
Real Estate and Mortgages. 

to the Air Force. 
"I came back from vacation and 
SPRING SESSION: March 3-May 30, 1975

they were after me. I couldn't 
SUMMER SESSION: June 9-August 29, 1975

believe it," he said. 
FALL SESSION: September 22-December 22, 1975 

Del Beccaro has had an office in 
Recruiter on Campus Mar. 4 

suburban Niles for 13 years and 
has been on the staff of Lutheran 
Lawyer's Assistant Program 21 ~ 1
·------------------------,
I 
College of Continuing Education •

General Hospital in Park Ridge for 
I ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY .._· I

15 years. 
1 430 South Michigan Avenue ~ 1

He became elibible to enlist 
I Chicago, Illinois 60605, Phone: (312) 341-3882 I Please send me information on Roosevelt's Lawyer's Assistant Program. I

High quality of 
I I am interested in (check one) _Spring _summer _Fall session. 
I I
I Name 1

British lifeguards 
I Address I

takes a big dip 
I~ ~ ~ I 

LONDON <UPl) Fifty 
lifeguards hired by British i------------------------~ 
swimming pools in 1974 could not swim, 55 were found "morally 

BUZZ OUT

unsuitable" and 27 attacked people, got drunk or took drugs while on duty. 
AT THE

Those statistics were contained in a report published this week by the Institute of Bath Management to warn employers about the sort of people they take on at public 
"NAZZ"

swimming pools. "We get quite a lot of un­desirables," the report said. 
FRI. 9:30 Rich Walters, Bob Thomas; 
10:30 Bill Hillstrom, Joan Dedmon

Senior pictures 
Carl Casazza;

end next week 
11:30 Lynn Johnson 

Next week will be the last week 
for juniors to have their Senior 
12:30 Chris Walters 

Yearbook pictures taken. The 
pictures are in natural color and 
SAT. 10:00 Bill Martin 

there is no charge if you have them taken now. There will be a $10 charge if you have them taken in 
11 :00 Mark Hopkins 

the fall. There are still about 600 
12:00 Lisa O'Neill, Jim Wendel 

juniors who have not had them 
taken. 
Dennis Doughty 

You can make an appointment by calling 3557 between 9 and 5 
Place • Basement of LaFortune

today or any day next week. There are open times, but the sooner you 
Refreshments & Food Available
1

call, the more choice you will have on times and days. These pic,tur~ are not only for juniors, but also {br.' 
·.·.· ···-··student Govt. Sponsored

anyone who is graduating next 
_,.,.~ ~., ... ,, ... -.v+r•v,_\· .. · 1 :~~, 

y~ar: -• • • • • • • . • ' • ' " ' ' , 
with this, I would not have ap­proved it," Schmidt said. 
Rauscher said he was very concerened that DES is agin showing up in meat from cattle to which it is given as a growth hormone. He said it should be eliminated entirely from that use. 
Three women who were invovled with DES told the hearing the FDA's approval of it as a morning-after pill was a mistake. 
Two of the women said they took DES during pregnancy to prevent abortion, and that their daughters died of cancer in their teens. 
The third woman said her mother had taken the drug during pregnancy and she;-the daughter­underwent cancer surgery last summer, rendering her unahle to bear children. 
CLASSIFIED RDS 
WANTED Magazines, newspapers, un. dergrounds. Daily NY Times, Wanted: 2-man tent for spring Sunday Wash Post. Pandora's 
break. Call 289-6760. Books, 602 N. St. Louis Blvd at So. 
Bend Ave. Need ride 3-13 to New England, back by 3-17. J im,"-8927. 
Student Body elections this Monday. Get out and vote. 
Wanted: Senior Girls -if you would 
Bury & Sondejbe interested in a job at the Senior 
' Club, please call and set up an ap­
CELEBRITY LUNCH-IN AT 
pointment before Fri. Jim, 7521. 
BULLA: Try a change for lunch, converse, digress and digest with Need ride for 2 South -Ft. 
James T. Farrell, James Purdy, and 
Lauderdale. Call 8143. 
John Logan of the Sophomore Literary Festival. Tuesday, March 
Ride needed to Chicago Feb. 28 4, 11:15. 1:00. Ya'll come. 
afternoon or evening. Mary, 4543. 
Need 2-4 tickets for Dayton game. 
LOST AND FOUNDCall Dave, 1696, or Tom, 1814. 

Found: 1pr. gold wire-rim glasses in 
Roommate wanted, beautiful 
tan case.
apartment. $65 monthly. Call Fred, 1 pocket calculator in black case.
288-5646. 
1 silver Cross automatic pencil. Memorial Lib. Lost and Found
Need 2-4 Sat. night Medea tickets. 
CounterCall 1540 or 4768. 
Lost: black frame glasses between FOR SALE Grace and D-1. Call 1756. 
Set of Wilson blue-ridge golf clubs. Lost: expensive fountain pen, blue Right hand. 4 woods, 8 irons. Good body and silver cap. Between or in condition. For person 5'9" . 5'11". O'Shag, Admin. or Geology .. Bldg. Asking $120. Call Mike, 3134. Call 3693. 
Garrard Zero-100 with walnut base & Lost: 1 pair of silver wireframe dust cover. $130. Call Larry, 6864. 
glasses, vicinity between Nickle's 
and campus. If found call 283-7883. Bell & Howell receiver, small Ad· Reward offered. vent speakers, $180. John, 1192. 
Lost: sterling silver bracelet in Two Sansui As-300 speakers 12" -3 Stepan or parking lot on Thurs. of way systems. List: $150 ea. Ex­Mardi Gras. Sentimental. Reward.
cellent sound at $200 for the pair or 
Nancy, 5133.
best offer. Call Tim, 6256, 8818. 
1974 Camara . automatic, power, PERSONALSAM-FM, AC, custom interior. 232· 
8600. 
Well, tonight's the night, Mar! Hope· you had a happy 18th .. you're legalHexel Camps and Olin Mark IV's. 
now! 
Good condition. Reasonable. 8012. 
Carol. Rose, Mary 
Jeff, Mark, MoSeals-Crofts tix, at cost. Sec. 9, 
platform. 8917. 
Tom Hogan: Get off the table. FOR RENT 
Beth, Furnished apt, second floor. Gas You don't have to go to Hawaii for a heat furnished. 289-6307, 234-0596. lei. Happy Birthday. 
Love, 2nd Floor Apartments for summer sublease. Good condition, close to campus. K.C., Call 272-4156 or 277-0130. You've time for others, 
but excuses for me. Five and six bedroom houses for MY heart is heavy rent. Leases run Sept thru May. with despondency. Excellent condition within '12 mile of Paint me a clock 
campus. 233-2613. with some time for me, 
For the kid that smiles A 6 mo. sublease of a $175.00 1-Is a friend of thee. bedroom apt. for only $130. If in­Famous Lover terested call Bonnie, 232-5853. 
Observer Staff: For rent: furnished houses available Smile: God loves you and so do I. now for summer and fall rental. 
Have a happy and healthy weekend. Phone 289-2602 or 234-9364. "Mom" 
Dear,
NOTICES "Your favorite taxi service" got your valentines today. Who are you?

Disciplinary action hanging over 
Scotty
your head? Call Student Govt, 7668. 
We may be able to help. 
Summer in Europe: Uni-Travel charters at less than '12 regularMedical, dental, and law school economy fare. 65 day advanceapplicants: perhaps we can help you payment required. U.S. Govt' ap­get accepted. Box 16140, St. Louis, proved. TWA-PanAm-Transavia
MO, 63105. 
707s. Call toll free 1-800-325-4867. Tune-up specialist: 2 barrel car­
Uncool ones!
buretor overhaul, $24.95, parts in­
Rally to me!
cluded. 232-1796. 
Love, 143 Overseas Jobs -Australia, Europe, 
TW, how could you?
s. America, Africa. Students, all 
DPR
professions and occupations. $700­
$3000 monthly. Expenses paid, 
Happy Birthday to my foxy littleovertime, sightseeing. Free in. 
lady. You've made my life "seventh
formation. Transworld Research 
heaven." Wanna wrestle sometime?
Co., Dept. F3, P.O. Box 603, Corte 
Love ya always,
Madera, CA., 94925. 
Boo S.H.A.R.E., Hotline phone, 4311, rm. 
C. J. the secondth,
15, Holy Cross S.M.C. Completely You're definitely over the hill, butconfidential. 8-12 nightly. 
I'm catching up quick. I say 1don't give a&?+!. but I really do. HappyWestern Electronics 24 hr. TV 
22nd. 
..

service. 1530 Western Ave. 282-1955. 
Dave Money? Morrissey Loan will lend up 
There once was a girl named Joan,to $150 for 30 days, 1 day waiting Who was quite a campus unknown,period. Basement of LaFortune, Then she got her hair cut,daily, 11:15 to 12:15. 
Now she's out of her rut, And the boys can't leave her alone.
Accurate, fast typing. Northwest Happy Birthday.
section of South Bend. Reasonable. 
Phone 232-0746. 
Dear Kell. 
Happy Birthday.
Ski Trips! 
Love, Your Harem
The Notre Dame Ski Team invites you to: The Irish Bender, Crystal Mt., Mich. Eunice, March 15-16. Thanks for your condolences; it was Ski Jackson Hole! The biggest my first personal. 4 more and I'm mountain in the U.S.A. March 22·29. out of the game. Meeting for trips Monday, March 3, Morrissey Bruin 
• 

rm 1-C, LaFortune, 7:00p.m. More 
info, call 6811 or 6856. • , Secret Admirer, 
,, hereby reply to your Valentln,e.. Gay Students of Notre r;>am41. l.n~ r , _misse<;l yqur hit line, don't r:niss rt;ine rormanon: 6343. Fri. & sat., B-h · ·sun. night. · · 
p.m. Intrigued, K. K 
16 the observer Friday, February 28, 1975 
Irish host.Dayton in home finale 
by Pete McHugh Fisher will start at center. The 6­8 Fisher had his brightest per­formance last season in Dayton's 

Dayton ain't Indiana. Dayton triple overtime loss to UCLA with ain't UCLA. And this year, Dayton 15 points, hitting all six of his field ain't even Dayton. But whatever it goal attempts. ain't, Dayton is all that separates For the Irish, coach Digger' Notred Dame from an 18-8 season Phelps will start with the Fordham and a probable NCAA tournament five: Jeff Carpenter, Bill Paterno, bid. Adrian Dantley, Dave Batton, and 
Saturday afternoon in the ACC, Toby Knight. Dwight Clay, Peter coach Don· Donoher's Flyers will Crotty, "Duck" Williams, and Ray try to be just that difference in Martin should also see plenty of Notre Dame's final regular season action. game. The visitors will be unlikely I Dantley comes off Tuesday's 98­spoilers, however, currently with a 61 romp over the Rams with a 30.3 10-14 record, the worst mark for scoring average, third in the the school in 'Zl years. nation. A.D. scored a game high 28 
Leading the upset hopes for Ipoints and a controversial early Dayton will be 6-2 sophomore ejection in the win. Knight followed guard Johny Davis. Davis, a with 22 points and rebounds to up Detroit native, heads the Flyer's his season's averages (9.5 ppg, 7.2 scoring with a 22 point average. rpgl. His teammate in the backcourt will Paterno, a 6-6 sophomore from be 6-4 junior Leighton Moulton Spring Lake, New Jersey, will 
(10.3 ppg). start in the swing guard position 
In the front court, 6-8 Allen (13.3 ppg). Freshmen Batton and "Motown" Elijah tops the team in Carpenter get their second straight rebounding, averaging better than starting nod against Dayton. 10 caroms per game. Another Batton has been particularly product of the Detroit impressive from the outside, playgrounds, the senior co-captain hitting double figures the ·past four is second in scoring 03.7 ppg). games. 
His wingmate, 6-5 Jim Tester­Phelps isn't looking past the man, whose ambition is to play Flyers despite their mediocre 
Phelps will start his "zone" lineup Saturday against Dayton. Tipoff is 2:00p.m.
professional football, is still a season. "All I want to be is 18-8 doubtful starter, coming off a and then I'll worry about the NCAA of the six top teams in the country For Dayton, a win will salvage sprained ankle. Sophomore Rocky bid." and we're 11-2 the second half of Donoher's first lo'!iing season in Track team in Coleman will be his backup. He doesn't belittle his youthful the season. 11-2 is as _good as any eleven campaigns at the Ohio 
The other captain, senior Joe cagers though, "We've lost to five team, except Indiana." school. The Flyers lost to Irish Des Moines: dual common opponents South Carolina 
Drake University

and DePaul. Their rivalry with Notre Dame is short lived with the Notre
Playoff-bound icers face 
series tied 2-2. Dame's track team hits the road Dantley and ~ompany should again this weekend, traveling to have an added incentive in this Des Moines, Iowa to face Drake 
year's battle after Dayton's upset University in a dual meet Friday. victory last season before,a record The Irish will try to repeat last victories· this weekend, as it would necessary quickness, and more, so crowd in the Dayton Arena. They year's performance when they 
Badgers in closing series 
by Bob Kissel mean home ice in the first round vital to a blueliner, plus a scoring were only one of three teams to defeated Drake in a nipand tuck 

playoffs which begin Tuesday. touch. 7 goals and 23 assists, every defeat the Irish. Those other battle, 67-64, in the Athletic and 
Pat 'the Shuffle' Conroy may not "This series is very big, for coach hopes for. . teams were UCLA and Michigan. Convocation Center. This will be be the most quotable of Lefty both clubs," commented Irish Norwich is joined at the Gametime is slated for 2:00p.m. the last dual meet ofthe indoor coach Smith. "Wisconsin will blueline by John Taft, with the season with the JC4A and NCAA
Smith's hockey players, but he did COT. 
really be trying for that important other pair Brian Engblom and
manage to capture the spirit of any indoor championships remaining­
Notre Dame-Wisconsin home ice in the playoffs. We want Tom Machowski or Ian Perrin. In the next two consecutive matchup. "Take a Badger to seventl! place to get a shot at goal soph Mike Dibble has found Fencers end weekends. lunch" is the Conroy slogan. playing Colorado in the first round, consistency which -he lacked Last week's Central Collegiatethe opponent we'd most like to earlier in the season. Dibble has Conference meet was disap­
Add to the already intense play." regular slate 
been in the nets for 24 games, pointing for head track coach Donrivalry between these two WCHA The Badgers are led by 
two posting a 3.5 goals against stat. by Tom Kruczek Faley. The Irish thin clads couldhockey clubs, the imminence of 
freshmen, both legitimate rookie of "Sure there's a heated rivalry manage only 10 points and an nth
playoff time and the drama Saturday, the Notre Dame
the year candidates. Mike Eaves, between the two teams, but the place finish. The lone bright spot 
begins to peak. The final fencing team will wrap up its
a center out of Kanata, Ontario, Badgers are not a chippy-type .came in the two-mile run as Joe
ingredient of this hockey playoff regular season with a four-team
leads the club in scoring with. 10 club," noted Smith. "The series Yates finished third with an 8:54.9
the logjam tourney gym
recipe is at the top goals and 28 assists. should be good and fast, with lots of in the auxiliary clocking, his best of the year and
division of the WCHA. Depending starting at 10 a.m. The tourney
Wisconsin's attack has physical play. Both teams are only two seconds off the school 
on this final n:gular season's will feature Buffalo, Case Western, 
traditionally been a quick attack. here to skate." record.
results, Wisconsin, Michigan Tech, and the Miami of Ohio in a final
The forwards dump the puck in "One of the major parts of last Drake should be still competition 
tuneup before post-season action
Michigan State, or Colorado the zone every chance they get and weekend's success was the fact for the Notre Dame trackmen.
College could fmish anywhere begins.
then buzz in deep, putting ·good that we cut down on our penalties," Leading Drake will be Larry
from second to fifth place. Coach Mike DeCicco commented 
pressure on the forcheck. Wingers continued Smith. "Especially on Mendenhallin ., ·a 
on the tourney in that it will give
And the icing is that the Irish ar~ Steve Alley (16 goals, 19 assists) the Walsh line, they're half our versatile. half miler. The 60-yard
the Irish a chance to face top
fighting . for seventh place-and and center Dave Lundeen (15 attack. With them in the penalty dash is another strong event as two
caliber competition before
the right not to play the hottest goals, 20 assists) typify this box, we are hurting." sprinters, George Murphy and
beginning the Great Lakes
hockey team in the nation, Min­Wisconsin quickness and skating Offensively Brian 'Butterball' Larry Carr, have finished as low as
Tourney next week. 

nesota. <The Gophers have lost but ability. Walsh centers for sophs Al Pirus :06.1
"Buffalo will probably be the 
two games since Defensively the Big Red are and Clark Hamilton; Pat Conroy The date of the meet has been
best team that we will face this
Thanksgiving.) steadied by another frosh phenom, skates between Mark Olive and changed from Saturday fafternoon 
weekend," DeCicco explained.

Wisconsin is currently fifth in the Craig Norwich, from Edina East in Tim Byers; Geoff Collier pivots to Friday night due to scheduling
"They have very good people in
league's standings, only three Minnesota. If there's one with Kev Nugent and Al Karsnia; problems on Drake's part.
both the sabre and epee teams.

points out of second place. The Big Wisconsin player to make things and Donny Fiarholm handles the However I feel that if we have a
faceoff duties for his brother Terry 
strong showing in epee and if our Marek selected
and Bill Guisti. 

foil continues its excellent per­On February 7 the Notre Dame
On defense, probably the key to 
formance, then I think we will do 
any chance for Notre Dame suc­Sailing Team journeyed to
quite well." 

cess over the weekend, Lefty Bloomington, Indiana for the 
As for Case Western and the Midwest Collegiate Sailing
Smith has these sets in mind, Jack 
Miami of Ohio, DeCicco pointed
Brownschilde-Dick Howe, Dave Association mid-winter meeting.
out that both schools were hit hard 
Bossy-Dan Byers, and Mike Smith­At this meeting, Bruce Marek, the Les Larson. Len Moher will start by graduation and are currently present Commodore of the Sailing
involved in rebuilding programs.

in goal Friday night, while Club here on campus, was elected 
"Both schools have good teams,
Saturday's goalie is undecided. Commodore of the M.C.~.A. This
but I think that our experience will
"We have to take and develop job involves presiding over the 
show through and we shouldn't meetings of the M.C.S.A. and
some momentum going into Ute 
have any problem with them."

playoffs," commented Smith. "We providing assistance to the 
DeCicco's thoughts then turned member schools. Marek has
need the 'fans behind as well as the 
to the following weekend when the
band whose efforts we have really previously served the M.C.S.A. as 
Irish will play host to the Great
appreciated over the past weeks. Race Team Chairman, and as an
Lakes Championships, one of the
Theband members get excited and Officer at Large.
the top tournaments in the country. 
that really helps us." Also at this meeting, Buzz 
This year, 17 men and 18 women's
Both games, Friday and Reynolds, the club's Race Team 
teams will take part in the two
Saturday start at 7:30 in the ACC. Captain, scheduled this year's
days of competition. On Friday
The action will be broadcast live regattas. The highlights of this
March 7, the fencers will first
and in color by WSND, our own year's schedule include the up­
touch swords at 4 p.m. and will
student radio station. coming Notre Dame Icebreaker 
proceed through the preliminary Regatta on March 15 and 16 and the Despite any rumors to the rounds that should conclude near Midwest Women's Championship contrary, there still is a junior 10 p.m. The next day the finals of to be held at Notre Dame on Aprilthe championship will be held from 
varsity hockey program. The 26 and 'Zl. Both events will be held young Irish icers finish out their 8:30 a.m. until 4 p.m. when the on St. Joseph's Lake. Anyone season this Friday an Saturday champions in each weapon for men in more information
interested 

against Macomb C«>llege Both and women will be crowned. This about the Sailing Club should at­I games are at 2:00 p.m., with the tourney differs from others, in that tend one of the meetings, which are 
NEAR MISSES are OK for NO goalie John Peterson, as long as they Irish hoping to improve their only two fencers will compete at held at 6:3p.m. on Wednesdays in remain misses. The Irish are hoping Wisconsin's shots will. current 12-2 mark. each weapon for the schools. room 204, Engineering Building. 

Digger 









