
Student poll preference 
Students to suggestnewcalendar 
by Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief 

Student representatives to the Academic Council will recommend tomorrow to the Council new calendar-making guidelines to allow a pre-Labor Day start and a week-long mid-semester break. 
The proposed guidelines would be effective for fall, 1976 through 1978. They would permit a start of classes next fall as early as Aug. 
31. 

The guidelines follow the calendar choice of students ac­cording to a survey of 3000 Notre Dame students taken before Thanksgiving. In the survey the students were given a choice of six alternative calendars. A plurality of 37 percent favored Choice C which features: an Aug. 31 star­ting day of classes, a week-long October break, a regular (four and a half day) Thanksgiving break and a Dec. 21 end of classes. 
Choice C would be possible under the proposed new guidelines. 
Break more important 
In the survey 92 percent of the students believed a mid-semester break is more important than a post-Labor Day start. Sixty-five percent of those polled believed the mid-semester break should last a Government academic com­missioner, noted that the calendar Choice C was the first, second or third choice of 85 percent of those surveyed. 
week,  instead  of  an  extended  
weekend.  
Mike  Gassman,  Student  

Although <lloice C would provide only 69 class days, Gassman believes it to be a feasible calen­dar. 
"According to Leo Corbaci, all the calendars in the survey are feasible," Gassman said. 
Gassman will make a two-part proposal on the calendar at tomorrow's Academic Council meeting. Part I proposes that "The first class day of the fall semester be no earlier than the Tuesday preceding Labor Day." 
The second part includes provision for the mid-semester break. "The fall semester shall include a week-long mid-semester break in addition to the four-and­ahalf day Thanksgiving break. The guidelines as amended shall be used to prepare the calendar for the next three academic years." 
Dramatic opinion change 
The results of the student survey show a dramatic reversal of student opinion on the calendar issue from a similar poll taken just ten months ago. 
The Academic Council will tomorrow consider changes in the faculty appointments and promotions process in addition to voting proposed changes in the fall academic calendar. 
The Council, meeting for the first time this semester, will also name members of two committees and debate a revision in the policy of Appointment and faculty relationship provided in the Academic Manual. 
The proposed changes in the faculty appointment process, endorsed last April by the Faculty Senate, would make the Ad­ministration more resposible to the Committees oo Appointments and Promotions CCAP> in each department. 
Prof. Paul Conway, chairman of the Faculty Senate, ooted that the proposed changes would limit the power of department chairman to decide appointments and promotions. 
"Presently the CAP committee discusses the promotion and the chairman makes the decision," Conway said. Under the proposed changes, ''The chairman's weight 
Positive aspects of alcohol emphasized atconference 
by Lonnie Luna Staff Reporter 

The Alcohol Conference, held Nov. 21 through 23, emphasized the positive aspects of alcohol and removed the stigma placed upon it by society, according to Student Body President Ed Byrne. 
Alcohol can be used or abused and it can enhance or destroy a social gathering, explained Byrne. 
"What the conference did was remove the mystique placed on alcohol and place the blame on the individual," Byrne said. 
The problem with America is there is no tradition associated with drinking as in Germany or other European countries, he explained. 
As a result, when the drinking is done, it is done surreptitiously when the individual is not of drinking age, he continued. Con­sequently, drinking in this manner is done to the point of drunkenness, he said. 
Also, it is time college students reflected on their drinking habits because it is they who influence the drinking habits of America, he stated. Many high school students follow the drinking habits of college students, he added. 
"I think this conference will definitely help lower the drinking age because it shows the legislature that the students are doing something and that we can deal with alcohol responsibly," Byrne said. 
The conference was the first nationally-sponsored conference of its kind and it was fortunate for us to co-sponsor it, he added. 
"It can help us and it can't hurt us," said Byrne. 
Diana Merten, a member of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcobolism <NIAAA) 
editorial board, felt the conference was worthwhile because it "has affected my drinking habits." 
"The confereoce was not telling people not to drink but rather giving the individual the chance to decide on the use of alcohol," Merten said. 
The conference pointed out at many parties ooly alcobol is served, explained Merten. Rather, she suggested food, such as ham sandwiches and bors d'oeuvres be served, along with the drinks "because many people enjoy eating as well as drinking," sbe continued. ~ 

The Academic Council will meet tomorrow to vote on proposed calendar changes and to consider 
changes in the process of faculty appointment and promotion. 
In the Student Government poll  Choice A  21  percent  
taken last Feb.ruary! 74 percent of  
the students  mterv1ewed  and  75  
percent of the faculty post-Labor Day start.  favored Only  a 25  
percent  of  the  students  and  20  
percent of the faculty expressed approval of the calendar that is  Choice B  20 percent  
now  the  most  favored  in  the  
student poll.  

Academic Council to discuss 
Choice c 

37 percent
appointment,promotionprocess 
would not be heavier than the rest of the committee." Choice D 3.5 percent
The Faculty Senate, proposal, drafted in an ad hoc committee headed by Prof. Joseph Tihen of the biology department, would create a University Appeals Committee to settle disputes Choice E 7 percent between the CAP committees and the administration. 
The Council wil1 elect five members to the Executive Com­Choice F 2 percent mittee of the Academic Council as well as members to the Committee to Review the Provost. 

SBP Ed Byrne served as a Notre Dame representative to the recent Alcohol Conference. 
Also, non-alcoholic drinks should 
be served as there are people who 
do not drink at an, she added. 
The conference emphasized that drinking at a bar should be a social gathering to meet friends, not to get drunk, she said. 
Mrs. Mary Clare McCabe, director for Student Development Programs, felt the conference was important because it "was an opportunity for the representatives of the 63 universities to exchange information on alcohol education." 
The conference encouraged the use of the national clearinghouse as a resource, she added_.:·.· , . 
McDowell lecture stresses individual basis of peace 
by Lonnie Luna Staff Reporter 

Josh McDowell emphasized world peace must begin on an individual basis during his lecture on Christianity last night in the library auditorium. 
"Every problem we have to face is an individual problem," he told the audience of approximately 200. "These problems are racism, prejudice, envy and jealousy-but I don't call them problems; they're 
diseases." 

Individual problems gather collectively and then combine as a whole into society, explained McDowelL An individual is a product of his or her environment. 
Man is egocentric 

As such a product, he or she becomes an economic organism, he added. "Why is an individual an ­economic organism? Because he is ambitious," McDoweU said. 
"And he is ambitious because he is greedy; he is greedy because he is. self-centered," he said. 
. Anarchy bas become the basic entity in all people -everyone for tiimself, he stated. . . : 
' \ .. ' .. ' . . 
Start Aug. 25 
9 day Oct. break Regular Thanksgiving break End Dec. 18 
Start Aug. 25 s day Oct. break 9 day Thanksgiving break End Dec. 18 
Start Aug. 31 9 day Oct. break Regular Thanksgiving break End Dec. 21 
Start Sept. 1 No Oct. break 9 cfav Thanksgiving break End Dec. 21 
Start Sept. 2 5 day Oct. break Regular Thanksgiving break End Dec. 21 
Start $ept. 8 No Oct. break Regular Thanksgiving break End Dec. 22 

McDowell attended Wheaton Co11ege and Talbot Theological Seminary. He graduated magna cum laude from Talbot. 
He  is  the  author  of  Evidence  
That Man Is  a Verdict  and More  
Evidence.  

Technology misused 

McDowell also explained people's misuse of technology. 
"Technology has advanced mankind but has also instilled fear, tension and anxiety in humanity," McDowell stated. Through technology, we know more about killing people than helping them, he added. 
McDowell cited the common denominator in technology as being the individual and his or her misuse of it. We should use our technology for the good of mankind, not to create havoc and death and destruction. 
"Was it Einstein's atom bomb or the evil power invested in the heart which could use it that terrified many?" he said. 
McDowell cited humanism as part of the problem and not the solution. 
(continued on page 3) 

Tuesd!Y, December 2, 1975
the observer 

warld briefs 
MIAMI-Michael Lance Carvin, 20, who was charged with a toy­pistol confrontation with presidential aspirant Ronald Reagan was released on $100,000 bond yesterday and admitted to a private psychiatric hospital. . 
Carvin was charged with intimidating a political candidate and resisting and interfering with Secret Service agents as a result of a scuffle at a Reagan rally outside a Miami hotel. 
WASHINGTON-The Food and Drug Administration yesterday ordered an immediate halt to distribution of the drug Sominex-2 and the recall of all existing supplies from the market. 
The FDA said that diphenhydramine included in the product requires a prescription and medical supervision and poses a "significant health hazard" as currently market~. . 
The federal action does not affect another sleep-a1d Sommex also manufactured by J.B. Williams Co., Inc. of New York. 
WASHINGTON-Ralph Nader's Health Research Group petitioned the government yesterday to ban delousing sprays containing a chemical that has been linked to cancer. The aerosol sprays con­taining lindane have recently become popular as a result of lice outbreaks among school children in Washington, D.C. and elsewhere across the countrv. 
an campus taday 
tuesday, december 2, 1975 
9:30pm --sale, ladles of notre dame UNICEF sale, library aud 
4:30 pm --seminar, "neurobiology of parasitic helmlnthes: emphasis on s. manson! and hepatica" by dr. james bennett, mlch. state, rm. 278, galvin aud. 
7:30pm --irish concert, "Irish music", library aud. 
7:30pm --meeting, "faculty senate meeting", rm. 202, cce. 
7:30 pm --meeting, "charismatic prayer", rathskellar, Iafortune basement. 
8 pm --basketball, "valparaiso at notre dame", ace. 
8, 10 pm --film, "state of the union", engineering aud., $1. 

--meeting, "philosophy honor society", library aud. 
Business program assisted by grant 
The Small Business Ad­ministration <SBA> has awarded a $5,000 grant to the College of Business Administration for a continuation of the program of assistance to firms sponsored by the agency. 
The award, announced by Francis A. Yeandel, assistant dt-an, recognizes "innovative teaching techniques and pragmatic approaches." 
Yeandel described the 
( *the observer l 
Night Editor: Bob Brink Assistant Night Editor: Maureen Flynn Day Editor: Margie lrr Copy Reader: Kathy Mills Features: Tim O'Relley Sports: Bill Brink Typists: Camille Arrleh, Mary Tobin Terminal Halnics: Chip Spina; hereafter phased out due to Creeping Computerlsm Night Controller: Dave Rust) 
lAd Layout: Joe Gralf 
THE 
All too often, when the party ends, the trouble begins. 
People who shoulctn 't be doing anything more a'-·,ethan going to sleep are drivinb d car. Speeding and weaving their way to death. 
Before any of your friends drive home from your party, 
assistance program as management consultation by teams of Notre Dame seniors with owners of firms experiencing 
difficulties  in  some  an.a  of  
business operation.  
The  theoretical  know-how  of  
students  experienced  in  

management studies is combined with the practical knowledge of the business opera tor in the program tht has produced many successes, Yeandel said. 
Under the guidance of faculty members, the student teams are assigned to a firm that has requested assistance from the SBA. The teams may spend up to one academic year studying all phases of operation before com­pleting a full audit of their fin­dings. 
In some cases, Yeandel says, a recommendation may include new marketing techniques or a com­plete revision of product manufactured. 
The Notre Dame college has been a partner in several SBA programs since the cooperative program was initiated by Yeandel 
in 1973. 
And don't kid yourself 
because they may have had 
some black coffee. Black coffee 
can't sober them up well enough 
to drive. 
If someone gets too drunk 
to drive, drive trim yourself. Or 
call a cab. Or offer to let him 
sleep over. 
mak~ ~U:r~~fhey .~11'{ drunk•. , ~·. . MayJJ!: your: frieJld.won't • 
Don't be fooled because  · · · be feeling so good on the  
they drank only beer or wine.  morning after, but you're going  
Beer and wine can be just as  to feel terrific.  
·  ·  mixed drinks.  

Accredited foreign studies programs established by SMC for summer 1976 
Special foreign studies programs offered this summer by St. Mary's wilJ enable students to travel while they earn college credits. 
Three foreign studies tours are being sponsored by St. Mary's this summer. All three are open to any college or university student and can be taken with or without college credit. 
The third annual Summer Program in London tour is scheduled for May 18 to June 18. 
Included on the itinerary are visits to Ireland, Scotland and Wales and Paris. There is also time for independent travels by the student after the course work i~ completed. 
Students can apply for credit in English, art and history. 
The cost for this tour is $915 and includes all air, land and sea travel to and from New York,and within France, Britain and Ireland. All meals are included. 
Students may also earn credits in history thorugh the College's Summer East European and Soviet Seminary tour. The seminar group will visit Warsaw, Moscow, Leningrad, Kiev, Sofia, 
Provost speaks · 
tonigh·~ 
Faculty Senate 
Fr. James Burtchaell, University provost, will address the Faculty Senate at tonight's meeting. The meeting will start at 7:30p.m. in Room 202 of the Center for Continuing Education. The topic of Burtch a ell's speech is unknown but a question and an-Budapest and Bratislava in Czechoslovakia as well as Vienna, Austria. 
The seminar is designed to acquaint the student with the chief 
political and  cultural  centers  of  
Eastern  Europe  and  the  Soviet  
Union.  

The focal point of study will be the individuality of the culture of each nation. The total cost for this tour is $1,625. 
The St. Mary's Summer Rome Program will run from June 17 to July 16. 
The itinerary includes stops in Paris, Strasbourg, travels through southwestern Germany and the upper Rhine valley to Switzerland, Bermano, Brescia, Verona, Vin­cenza, Venice, Bologna, Padua. Florence and Pisa. 
The student is also free tc. arrange optional travel through Europe at the close of the Rome program. 
J:t'or students seeking degree credit, classes in Italian Art and Architecture, Comtemporary Italian Affairs and Lectures and Tours will be offered. 
The $1,625 cost for this trip covers all expenses, including air travel to and from New York, land travel in France, Germany, Switzerland and Italy, living accomodations and all meals. 
For additional information 011 the London or Rome summer tours, contact Dr. Anthony R. Black, associate professor 01 history at 284-4948, or write him at Office 345, Madeleva Hall, St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana. For more information on the Summer East European and Soviet Seminar Trip, contact Rev. James Zatko, lecturer in history at St. Mary's at 284-4925. 
The Observer is published Monday Through Friday and weekly during The !iummer session, except during exams and vacat1on periOds. The Observer as published by the students of the Univ. of NoirE' Dame and St Mary's College. Subscriptaon!> may be purchased tor 10 dollars per semester ( 18 dollars per year l from The Ob server. BoK Q, Notre Dame, In diana, 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame. IN 46556 



~ir Richard's 
BARBER STYLING 


UNISEX HAIR STYLING 
1Z9 DIXIEWAY SOUTH ROSEtANfl IN._PORTAGE WLn BUILDING 277.0734 
swer period will follow. ­Other topics on the agenda iq,; •.·BOOK BARN 
elude a brief report by the special 
CAP committee and the Com-• 
mittee on Collective Bargaining; a • is the 
proposal by the Committee on • 
Administration to amend the •.BOOK SHOP 
Academic Manual by setting 
stated terms of office for the • f 
principal Academic Officers and e 0 f 
the procedures for the reelection; ~ 
and a proposal regarding the •. BOOK LOVERS 'TI·aguhrnt 
North 2 blocks Past of the .• acceptance by the Board of at Cleveland and Juniper Trustees of the AAUP Statement • Old and new books <Emmons Rd.l Phone 272-5520 e 
on the Government of Colleges and eOpen Mon-Frl untO 9:00 Sundays noon untO 6:00 • 
' 


e • e e e • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
• • • • •,;
• 
• •
• 
•
• 
e • 

Universities. 
Lung association to hold meeting for volunteers 
The American Lung Association will hold an organizational meeting for students interested in participating in the "Life and Breath March" The meeting will 
beat10pmonWed.,Dec.3,inthe
LaFortune Ballroom. votunteers are needed frcm 
STORE YOUR BIKES THIS WINTER FOR ONLY $7.50 
CORBY LAUNDROMAT 
1015 E. CORBY 233-0896 
(JUST WEST OF BRIDGET'S) 

Mary's to deliver Christmas Seals
docmi~ri~atN~re~mea~&.t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=~~~~~~ 
.... • lo • ·.... •• 

SOUTH BEND 702 S. MICH. 282-1215 
NILES 2 20 N. FRONT 683-8322 
MISHAWAKA 315 N. MAIN 255-0246 
f 

Tuesday, December 2, 1975 the observer 
--~~------~~~~~~----~ 
Erlichman testifies 
Nixon moved files. feared FBI 'blackmail' 
WASHINGTON (AP) -For­mer President Richard M. Nix­on personally ordered secret files on wiretaps of newsmen and government officials moved from the Justice Depart­ment to the White House for fear that FBI Director J. Ed­gar Hoover would use them for "blackmail," John D. Ehrlich­man says. 
Ehrlichman, who was a top aide to the . resigned president, said Nixon had been urged to move the files to the White House by Robert C. Mardian, the assistant attorney general in charge of the records. 
In a deposition filed Monday in connection with a suit chal­lenging the legality of the wire­taps, Ehrlichman said Mardian was afraid of the late FBI di­rector and worried that he might send his agents to break into the office and remove the files. 
He said Mardian feared he might be harmed by Hoover or his agents. 
Ehrlichman testified that Hoover "was not above black­mailing the President" and that he might use the wiretap files "to secure whatever he wanted from the President," including a guarantee that his job would be protected. 
The wiretap files were re­moved from Mardian's office in 1971. They were found in 1973 in a White House safe. 
Ehrlichman 's deposition was filed in a suit by former White House aide Morton Halperin, whose telephone was tapped for 21 months in an attempt by the White House to halt information leaks to the press. The tele­phones of 17 newsmen also were tapped. 
The government contends the taps were legal and proper use of a president's authority to protect national security. 
Ehrlichman said Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger picked Halperin as one of those to be tapped because he saw Halperin as "singularly un­trustworthy" and noted "de­fects in his philosophy." 
Asked what was meant by "defects in philosophy," Eh­rlich man answered, "He was philosophically in disagreement with Dr. Kissinger and the President on matters of pol­icy." 
Ehrlichman recalled talks with Nixon in which it was de­cided that the wiretap data could be politically embar­rassing, "and Hoover wasn't above blackmailing the Presi­dent with this information." 
LaRasa focuses on plight of Mexican-Alnericans 
by Pat Cuneo Staff Reporter 

The Midwest Council of LaRasa, a non-profit organization, recently launched a fund-raising drive to aid migrant workers, United Farm Workers <UFW( ( AND Mexican-Americans. 
The goal of the council is to advance social change and human development in America, ac­cording to Ricardo Parra, executive director of the council. 
Currently, the Midwest Council of LaRaza needs money to qualify for the "two for one" plan a matching grant of $20,000 from the National Campaign for Human Development. In order to merit the grant, the organization must first raise $20,000 on its own. 
With several other money raising activities tentatively scheduled, the council will sponsor the film "Fighting for Our Lives" on Dec. 6 at Union Hall in South Bend. The movie will be preceeded by a receptionat the hall 
from 1 to 3 pm. 
The council operates a com­munication center for Mexican Americans in the Midwest. Theycurrently sponsor a day care center as well as Proyecto Nen­ceremos English as a second language program. 
'"The main purpose of the 
council is to focus attention on the present plight of Mexican Americans," explained Parra. The council strives to achieve justice and equal opportunity for 
Mexican-Americans, he said. 
In April, the Indiana Advisory Committee to the U.S. Constitution on Civil Rights issued a report
charging migratory farmworkers in Indiana have been systematically excluded from employment education and other 
opportunities routinely guaranteed to other Americans. 
Specifically, the report stated migrant families are excluded from the equal rights protection of state and federal laws and local, state and federal agencies have not protected their rights where the laws do exist. 
Parra, also a member of the Indiana Advisory Committee, said "The migrant's contribution to the state's agricultural economy is ignored even though each summer approximately 18,000 migrants come to Indiana to plant and harvest $26 million worth of a variety of the state's crops." 
He added, "They are among the lowest paid, least educated, worst housed and most medically im­poverished groups in Indiana." 
The advisory committee ob­served migrant children do not receive an adequate education during the u •••! they are in Indiana 3s "most of the children speak Spanishand their Mexican-American culture is alien to local 
education agencies." 
"Federalfundsareavailablebut many schools don't apply for the money through lack of knowledge and many of those schools that do apply for the aid end up misspending it," noted Parra. 
"In the area of welfare we discovered that Indiana food stamp officials have denied food stamps to eligible migrant farm­workers because of misin­terpretations of the law, the illegal use of residency requirements and failure to operate the program in a manner required by law," he said. Currently there are over a million Mexican-Americans in the 
Midwest. Parra hopes through financial aid and social change their goals may gradually be 
achieved. 
f***.******~•••*****•**********Jt
I WANT TQ GET AWA'Y? ~ 
He said Nixon ordered the office for several weeks. Final­files made "secure from the di­ly, Ehrlichman said, he got a rector of the FBI through their call asking him to meet Mar­destruction." dian at his home. 
But Ehrlichman said the "So after church I drove to tapes remained in Mardian's his house and he told me that 
Revenue-sharing program 
may not be 
MIAMI BEACH <AP) -The 
nation's city officials and the 
White House are increasingly 
worried that Congress may not 
renew the federal revenue-shar­
ing program which one mayor 
has called "the best thing since 
ice cream" for the cities. 
This new concern has been 
demonstrated at the National 
League of Cities' annual con­
vention that began here last 
weekend. 
James Falk, associate direc­tor of the White House Domes­tic Council and the adminis­tration's chief lobbyist at the convention, said in an inter­view, "I am not immediately optimistic and I am more con­cerned than I was five months ago about the ultimate fate of the program." 
The nearly 3,000 city officials at the convention heard the league president, Mayor Carlos Romero Barcelo of San Juan, P.R., warn: "We cannot possi­bly risk that any laxness or ir­resolution on our part may al­low the critics of this essential program to score a 'victory' by defeating general revenue shar­ing." 
And Rep. Norman Mineta, D­Calif., former mayor of San Jose, Calif., and now chairman of the freshmen Democrats in the House, told them there is a "very real possibility that with­out substantial efforts on your 

rene'Wed 
part, the general revenue-shar­ing program will not be contin­ued." 
The league's board of direc­tors sent a telegram Saturday to Rep. L. H. Fountain, D-N.C., chairman of the House inter-. 
governmental relations &ubcom­
mittee, which has held hearings. 
on a renewal of the measure, 
and urged prompt approval of 
President Ford's proposal to 
extend revenue sharing for 5% 
years at a cost of $39.8-billion. 
Fountain has said he cannot act 
on the bill before the end of 
this year. 
A group of Democratic may­ors also sent a prodding tele­gram over the weekend to Rep. Jack Brooks, D-Tex., chairman of the parent Government Op­erations Committee. Mineta said Brooks has expressed ''strongphilosophical opposition to the program." 
The current $30-billion, five­year program expires at the end of 1976. It has provided cites and states with the first federal aid they could spend any way they chose. 
Mayoi Moon Landrieu of New Orleans, president of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, the league's sister, told a news con­ference Monday that without renewal, "There's absolutely no way I could balance my city's budget without revenue-sharing money." 
•·* *vASTA FAGIOLihrtalian bean soup> .45 G .65 : INOW THRU JANUARY I, PAY ONLYI ITALIAN SAUSAGE SANDWICH l.lfC ~ SINGLE RATE ON ANY DOUBLE J ~EAT BALL SANDWICH 1.00 ~ 
McDowell: humanity is creature of war,not peace 
(continued from page 1) t J h a-d l't f l'f 
ou · esus a a goo qua 1 Yo 1 e 
Humanity is a creature ot war, -something that all of us need 
not peace, h said. When people are today, he added. 
killing people, it is seen as humane McDowell said he became a 
because it is our nature to be a Christian because he was lost, 
creature of war. confused and miserable. He asked 
"Jesus was a true radical. He· a Christian woman why she was so 
was not like all the student happy and peaceful of mind ano 
revolutions in the early '70s she told him it was because of 
seeking peace and changes on the Jesus. 
outside; he was concerned with Now McDowell claims his life 
changing people from the inside has changed. He emphasized, 
out," he said. though, that Christianity is not a 
What Jesus did 2000 years ago religion but a close, intimate 
can still be done today, he pointed· relationship with Jesus. 
• • • • • • • • • • e e • • • • • • • • • • e • • e e • • • • 
• VALERIE'S RESTAUR-ANT • 
·~ 8 0 1 S. M I C H I G.AN . S0 • B,E N 0 •. 
• 

• (NEXT TO GILBERTS) 289 -0681 • 
• OPEN BREAKFAST SERVED • 
~ ANYTIME •.· 
• Mon thru Sat 
••. 5 am to 9 P. m • ! II am to 7 pm Sunday •• 
..etiTALIAN SPECIALTIES. •· •• 
•' • • ·•sPAGHETTI • 
e Sauce 1.65 Meat Sauce 1.80 Meat Balls 1.00 • •MOSTACIOLLI • • Sauce 1.65 Meat Sauce 1.80 Meat Balls 1.90 • •· • 
:... <Dinnersinc.ltalianbread&saladandsoup) 
_
f OCCUPANCY ROOM WHEN YOU f ~ USE OUR liGHTED PARKING LOT : 
A MENTION THIS AD Ill' DOORS NORTH ON MICHiuAN ST 
. ~. . ! CARRY OUT ORDERS WELCQ~ 
NOWARD 
I

JoNnson·s 52939 u.s. 31 NORTH r-·-A QUALITY RESfAURA-NT bM:RAift51V 

*••• -••••••fAW.~~. •••• :.••-J~~J>mlf.s~~­
. -..-' . ... . . 
--' . 

~

1, :.4~·.·· .. 
' r . 

. ·-. ~ .. 


. I 1 -. '"' i 4' 
• .J • ~ l • ,. ' I \
. .... 
.... ,.,.... . .. 
. .. . ... ., .... , •• f ••• '~", •• ,~f),., ... 
he was very afraid of not only the integrity of these files, but also of his personal safety, that he felt he was being surveilled by Hoover through his agents, and it was only a matter of time before Hoover caused agents of the FBI to break into his files and recover the vari­ous records of this activi­ty .... " 
Ehrlichman said that some time after Nixon told him to take possession of the files, the Secret Service bought a safe and special alarm sensors to secure the files in the White House. 
Campus secure 
• 

over break 
by Shawn Scannell Staff Reporter 

Both Notre Dame and St. Mary's Security reported yesterday that no burglaries occurred on the campuses over the holiday break. This clean record parallels last year's safe Thanksgiving period. 
Arthur Pears, director of Notre Dame Security, said standard security measures were stepped up for the break. 
"Extra precautions were taken to ensure locked doors to keep the dorms safe. We issued keys to students in some d\lrms to prevent entry by anyone not permitted," he added. 
Pears noted that the number of students left on campus was greater this year than last, which "means the security measures were effective in preventing burglaries in view of this number." 
In a survey of rectors to find the number of students who remained 
o.n campus for Thanksgiving, a f1gure of about 12 per cent emerged. 
A further survey to determine Nhy students who stayed did pointed out two main reasons for not leaving. 
Either their homes were too 1istant to make a trip worthwhile economically, or the student felt 
the need to lighten their work load by doing a good deal of it and ~etting it out of the way. 
Often both factors had a ietermining effect on whether to stav or leave for the few days. 
Tbebed 

GTcarialU 



clall. 

Road & Track Magazine has named our new fuel in­jected Datsun 280-Z the best GT car in its class. Making it "one of the ten best cars for a changing world." 
Drop by and see if you 

agree.~~-~~ 



Now Available at 

•t t , ~., '*'''''"r!cfff• 
4 

the observer Tuesday, December 2, 1;75 
Reflects national trend 
Student writing ability declines at ND 
regardless of major, had to and "to let them know when they communicate effectively may 0~1 how to solve the problem.
by Jim Winters 

demonstrate a mastery of writing are not writing well." jeopardize a career. Dean Wad-Acting Arts and Letters Dean
Staff Reporter 

fundamentals in order to graduate. The problem is not simply for the dick, who advises pre-law Isabel Charles, for instance, said "It wasn't the worst idea in the English Department, Government students, said "law schools arejust that she believes it would beIs Notre Dame turning out world," Waddick added. Prof. George Brinkley agreed. screaming" about the "atrocious" ''psychologically poor to go for two"experts" who are also functional Edward Vasta, chairman of the "Education is the ability to writing of some applicants. And a semesters of freshman com­illiterates'? 
English Department, agreed with communicate," said Brinkley. University of Chicago Law School position as such." Charees said 
Not yet. But an inforr\ml survey Waddick that " there are a lot of "Even if a student knows official told Waddick that he is that it is her "personal opinion as 
indicates growing faculty concern very good students who are just not everything about the court of sometimes "stunned" by shoddy an English teacher" that writing
about an apparent decline in the good at writing." At the same Nicholas II, it won't do him much writing found on applications and must be taught within a context, 
writing skills of Notre Dame time, said Vasta, students are good unless he can coherently statements of purpose. and she believes the present fresh­
students. And a growing number expressing an "enormous in­communicate that knowledge." Why have writing skills man seminar arrangement serves 
of students appear unable to terest" in learning how to write And part of the problem, Brinkley declined? There are many that purpose. Other teachers cited 
master such basic skills as better. added, is simple ignorance of theories. Some professors blame economic factors as possibly
spelling, punctuation and gram "We can't offer enough sections writing basics. inadequate instruction in precluding an expanded writing 
mar. in writing at all levels," Vasta elementary and high schools. program. 
The problem is part of a said. "And there is a widespread Students want to improve Others believe that the influence of The faculty members appeared nationwide trend that is reflected feeling that our present attempt to television has de-emphasized the determined, however, to find some by test scores. Since 1966, average give freshmen one writing course need to write well. One cited the solution to the problem of college verbal scores on the Scholastic is inadequate." Vasta recom­Prof. Ronald Weber said he did lack of "great rhetoricians" ·· students who can't write. As one Aptitude Test have dropped 29 mended expanding the freshman not encounter mu~h technical among the national leadership, professor concluded "The 
composition and literature incompetence in the writing of hs and another blamed advertising University must avoid turning outpoints among Notre Dame fresh­requirement from one semester to American studies and graduate for the printed word's decline. technical giants who are literarymen and 32 points nationally. In two, and said "all classes at all Some disagreement also exists . pygmies."
the past year alone, the average communications students. That 
scores fell seven points here and 10 levels should be conducted in a writing, however, is often "not as 
points nationally, Average math way where the ability to write smooth nor as fluid as it should 



-----------------,I
be."

scores, in contrast.llave shown no counts." PEACH TREE I 
significant decline. "That's not to say. that the students are bad writers," Weber I •DINING ROOM • I
"I don't think the kids are get­Expand comp course? 
continued. "They're just not as
ting any dumber," said Robert J. 

good as they might be." . And I RANDALL' I II Waddick, assistant Arts and Vasta's suggestions were echoed growing class sizes, said Weber,
Letters dean. "But I think the by Prof. Donald Sniegowski, the I UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT
have contributed to th e problemschool systems have not em­directore of the undergraduate by forcing professors to cut back TUESDAY NIGHT SPECIAL I
phasized writing enough. Some English program. Sniegowski· on the amounts of writing they

kids can write, but I think the level said a majority of the }.;ngusn require. I SPAGHETTI AND MEATBALLS & SALAD 
I has gone down. And the thing has faculty would probably prefer a 
Many students agreed that their
reached such proportions that I 

two-semester freshman com­writing could stand improvement. I ALL YOU CAN EAT WITH THIS COUPON $.05 think we're going to have to position course. The emphasis of 
A senior in management said he $1.95 FOR FIRST BEER < WITH
consider greater requirements." the present single-semester course has registered for a writing course I.___ DINNER)
has been shifted this year away 
next semester in order to brush up.
from literature and toward 
senior major
Restore writing tests? A accounting --------................,.
composition, in order to remedy suggested that the College of 
~*****************•**~********\
what Sniegowski called a "slight" Business require a business Adding, or restoring basic decline in writing ability. 
communications course. Another 
i MAKE THIS i
writing courses at the university "We do get few students who 
accounting senior, however, said 
might be part of the solution, have remarkable trouble writing," 
rather proudly that he had not 
Waddick suggested. Some means Sniegowski said. But they're few. 
written a single paper since his 
! CHRISTMAS A !
might be found, he continued, for The more common and troubling freshman year.weeding out students with serious problem is the problem of com­writing handicaps in order to give posing -pulling thoughts together 

! HTENNIS XMAS" !
Careers jeopardized
them remedial help. The dean in a meaningful and memorable recalled that until the early 1960's, way." A logical solution, * GIVE THAT SOMEONE SPECIAL * an "English essentials test" was Sniegowski added, would be for That attitude did not appear to part of the University's professors in all disciplines to be widespread. Most students said :A "SPORTING"GIFT THAT WILL : cHrriculum. Every student, require that their students write, they realize that an inability to ~"SERVE LOVE" ALL YEAR 'ROUND: 
Butz proposes 'joint-ventures' 

! SPENI'S ! 
to aid Third World nations i PRO SHOP f 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Agri­ments and possibly funds from year agreement under which : 321 SOUTH NOTRE DAME ~ 
culture Secretary Earl L. Butz the Middle East oil nations. the United States will sell the * said Monday that he thinks it is Butz spent almost three Soviet Union six million to * SOUTH BEND 233-8712 * time to talk more seriously weeks seeing agricultural and 
eight million tons of wheat and ~****************************..,....,...,.
government in
about helping poor Third World leaders Iran, Is­~n a~~~ ~M fi~~~.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
countries through joint U.S. in­rael, Yugoslavia, Romania, with shipments to begin next vestment ventures, possibly in­Hungary and Poland. He re­Oct. 1. 
cluding partnership funds from turned Saturday following a 
Butz-said he had no plan to
the oil-rich Mideast. meeting in London. 
a~nounce at this time for step­
During his
Also. Butz told a news confer­tour, Butz signed pmg up U.S. business in­
documents in Poland in which 
ence, the idea of "joint ven­vestments abroad, particularly
"we stated our intention" to
tures" with private U.S. busi­in Third World and Eastern Eu­
supply that country with about
nesses seems to be attractive in ropean Socialist nations.
2.5 million metric tons of U.S.
several Eastern European So­grain annually over the next 

But he indicated that "I
cialist countries which he vis­

five years. A metric ton is 2,205 hope we can set up a mecha­ited last month. 
pounds. 
nism to begin to exploit the The ventures The Polish declaration com­possibility of this" in the near 
U.S. businesses, pares with a more formal five-future. 
plush

George Graves 
now appearing in the Mail Pouch Hoom 
FREESTYLE ., 
'• 
(This weekend -no cover charge with student l.D.) 
I''NiiiONAriiAKrS'EiV'iCrrN'Cl
HAPPY HOUR Mon.-Fri. 4:00-7:00 ~ ~ 
~ lndu! trial & automotive drum and disc specialists \~\~
LADIES' NIGHT Tues. 8:00-10:00 
,._ II.· 
-MEN'S NIGHT Thurs. 8:00-10:00 J I
r••. I 
PIZZAS, SNAeKS i . 23134 Lincolnway West [~\j
EVERY MONDAY-REDUCED PRICES 
SERVED ANYTIME
ON BEER AND BAR DRINKS 
'--~-Siiiii' t::c. Phone 232-8221 
.1.J.l.J 


7 fl. TV screen for block west of airport entrance, South Bend
Appropriate attire required for admittance 
Monday ·night football. \i:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~;:;;;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:J!i 
CALL NOW FOR FREE INSPECTION 
I 
\ 
\ 
. I ....e.: • +& ,.-.....6 ; .<"". u~ 9 ,{ -­
r 



Tuesday, December 2, 1975 
the observer 
5 


~uatican HVl ': ordination of women? 
This last weekend in Detroit, an event took place that has great import for the Church in the world. This event was a conference called "Women in Future Priesthood Now: A Call for Action." F­rom the few news headlines I had a chance to see women in priesthood was em­phasized more than the future of priesthood. This was an unfortunate oversight. . 
The conference, which I attended, was much more than trying to infiltrate the ranks of priesthood with women. It was a stepping back and looking at the Church, seeing where it was going and how close it was in following the guidelines it set out for itself in Vatican II and other pronounce· ments. If there was a slogan for the Conference, it was not "Women Priests Now," as much as "SOL--Stamp Out the Laity." What its objective seemed to be was not the handling a very particular and therefore limited problem, making women priests, but a transcendent problem, helping the laity fulfill the ministries they are called to by God and echoed in Vatican 
II. "We are a priestly people." 
Sister Kathleen Hughes of the Murphy Center for Liturgy at Notre Dame said it precisely in that, in that woman priesthood was "not a goal in itself but a means to an end." That end is the physical realization of Christ's call to each of us to minister to one another, a call formerly lost but newly found by Vatican II. 
The role of priesthood in the early Church was different than it is now. There were three official modes of priesthood <the leader of the Eucharist). These cons­isted of the Hierarchy <Bishops and Apostles), prophetic priesthood, and those who were appointed as leaders of the Eucharist in the absence of the abovementioned two. 
This ministry was not open only to men, which is a little known fact today. Our priesthood today is descendant from the Apostles. There was at least one female apostle explicitly mentioned by Paul. In Romans 16:7 Andromicus and Jumialare called apostles outrightly. 
According to Paul, an apostle was one who had eye witnessed the resurrection (1 Corinthians 9: 1-4). According to Luke, the apostle to replace Judas needed to have
r; 
f(rAt 
\ I



,, ­
fr. bill toohey
L;t./ \ 
You may have heard this story. It has been making the rounds lately. A mountain climber was high on a mountain and he fell. Fortunately, he grabbed a bush growing out of the mountainside and hung there with his feet dangling in space, hundreds of feet above the ground. He called to his friend below for help,. but the friend couldn't get to him. 
He then called out to anyone above for help: "Is there anyone up there?" A voice from above answered, "I am here." "Who are you?" said the climber. "I am God," came the answer. The man was overjoyed and asked for help. God said, "I will help you, but fir&t you will have to do what I tell you." "Anything, anything at all," replied the climber. Then God said, "Let go of the bush! " There was a long silence from the 
climber;  then  the  man  looked  up  and  
yelled  out,  "Is  there  anyone  else  up  
there?"  

That story says a lot about something all of us face. We find faith tough. By it God seems to demand the impossible: he keeps saying, "Let go of the bush." It couldn't be faith without some experience of God, yet we don't have the experience of sight. 
Faith is a delivering over of oneself in trust and surrender to God. We can't possibly do this unless he call to us and invite us; but still we don't see him. Faith is not sight. That's why there is no faith in heaven--where we see him "face to face." 
We can resonate with the words of the knight, in Bergman's film, Winter Light: "Faith is a torment, did you know that? It is like loving someone who is out there in the darkness but never appears, no matter how loudly you call." 
This was the cry of the Israelites: "How long, 0 Lord? I cry for help but yo~ donot listen." This is also the cry of the starving people of our world, the parents of the child born severely handicapped, those who have lost a loved one, and the student crushed in heart over rejection by a friend, or overwhelmed with loneliness. And it i~ the cry of Jesus himself. 
He had had an experience of the Father, and so had surrendered and delivered himself in the most complete way. But on the cross, he not only could not see the Father; he couldn't even sense his presence. It was like loving someone who is out there in the darkness but never appears, no matter how loudly you call, "My God, why have you forsaken me?" Still, he was willing to "let go of the bush"; that is, to let go of his spirit in trust: "Into your hands I commend my spirit." 
It would be a lot easier if it were just a matter of being hung up with that bush once. If we just had to let go in trust one time. But we know better. Faith demands we let go frequently; it means abandoning our own blueprint; it means living in the midst of ambiguity and doubt. 
Graham Greene's play, The Potting Shed, focuses on a family dominated by an agnostic father who has tried to stifle all doubt and ambiguity in the lives of his wife and children. The spiritual life of the family is moribund until doubt begins to intrude in the form of an alleged miracle that threatens their unquestioned agnostic certitudes. "You've spoiled all our cer_. tainties," is the way Mrs. Callifer responds to her son who has made the miraculous claim. But, as a matter of fact, she welcomes the challenge: 
It was all right to doubt the existence of God as your grandfather did in the time of Darwin. Doubt-that was human liberty. But my generation didn't doubt, we knew. I don't believe in this miracle-but I'm not sure any longer. We are none of us sure. 
accompanied Jesus in his Galilean minis­try and eyewitnessed his resurrection <Acts 1:21). 
The first ones to fulfill Luke's requirements <so possibly the first apostles) were the women who came to dress Jesus' body on Easter Sunday. 
Tradition is how the Church un­derstands itself and Christ, it is God's revelation over the course of time. In the Conference Sister Ann Carr explained this tradition. 
Aft.er Paul's death, people realized the end of the world had been postponed and probably would not come within their lifetime. The tri-partite priesthood was then reduced to two parts, overseer <Bishop) and presbyter (priest). In the sixth century celibacy was introduced and spread by the religious orders. In the eighth century Latin become the official language of the Church and the Breviary was introduced. Priesthood had grown from the possession of Charisms, powers given by the Spirit to individuals for the good of all, to only the offering of sacrifice and the forgiving of sins. The role of priest had changed from preaching, healing and ritual to only one of rituaL The Council of Trent officially instituted the trans­formation along with a visible priesthood, a priesthood that was indelible on the individual, that was centered on cultic aspects and was formal in character. 
Vatican II returned to the New Testament philosophy of priesthood, Priesthood was to be reunited with preaching and healing. ·Diversity was reborn in ministry with the reinstitution of deacons. In the year 500 the act of Con­secration at Mass was taken from the Bishops and shared with the J)riests. Changing tradition is a tradition in the Church; it should not be renounced now. 
From the above it should be seen that the issue is much more than women priests but a revitalization of the ministry of the Church, a return to Christ and His call to liberation. As Paul expressed it, we are no longer limited, no longer "slave nor free man, Gentile or Jew, male or female." If we are to limit priestly ministry to those who match the twelve apostles' physical characteristics, not only men but only Hebrew men should be priests. 
What the movement toward woman's ordination is trying to accomplish is tearing down the division that separates the oppressed and favored within the Church. 
It is not only for women to be involved in 


importance of doubt 
But when you aren't sure, at least you are living. 
How right she is! And for that reason, 
we know we are living: we exist in the real 
world, where we are most unsure. It's 
hard to imagine a time when women and 
men were faced with such uncertainty and 
doubt about their futures. Compounding 
the sense of insecurity is the realization 
that there is no extreme to which faith and 
the gospel may not take us. 
The personal renunciation implied may 
go far beyond the renunciation of family 
about which Jesus spoke when he said, 
"He who prefers family to me is unworthy 
of me." To have a new life of faith 
necessitates death to the old. The moment 
we say "Yes" we begin to die. It's the 
paradox of losing life to gain it. 
Think what it must have cost the twelve apostles, to leave their. security and follow the penniless Jesus. The same pattern is traced out by the politician who loses his life <elected office) because he says what the gospel teaches about racial justice. Or faculty, students and administrators in colleges who find it necessary to die to old customs and values for the sake of . newly­discovered demands of justice and peace. 
When we confront the pains of a life of doubt and the unknown, we may naively turn to religion for escape. But then we discover (if we're lucky) that the gospel is not a pill to help us avoid the pain of life, but a revelation that shows the way to transform suffering into the birth pangs of something new. Adversity introduces a man to himself; and if what he meets is a person of authentic faith, somehow he is led to grow through the experience. 
. If we possessed certainty, there would be no need for faith. Faith is a wild risk; and sad are those who try to destroy it, and 
john hannan 
priesthood, but also in the decision maKmg of the church, and the Magisterium. At present decisions are made for the whole Church by representatives of only one-half of the Church. Women should be represented on all decision bodies of the Church. This can only be seen as wrong if one believes that men and women have the same perspective on affairs that affect them, that women are the same as men <there is a difference between sameness and equality). Women should be able to bring their variety and insight into decisions, included because of their dif­ferences, not excluded because of them. Even the aforementioned study by the Bishops on Ordination recognized this "Women are called today to a greater leadership role in the Church~ their con­tributions are needed in the decision making process at the parochial, diocesan, 
national and universal level." The Roman Synod of Bishops said, " ... we also urge that women should have their own share of responsibility and participation in the community life of the Church" (Justice in the World, Part Ill). 
However, these words by our Natonal and Universal Church, when com­plemented by recent actions of the Church, seem ambivalent rather than full of conviction. With the creation of new lay offices of Lector, the directive from Rome was that these offices could only be filled by males. A position that had no tradition, since it had no prior history, was confined to only men. However, the U.S. Bishops were quick to modify the restriction to official installations only and the com­promise allowed women lectors. As Sr. Elizabeth Carroll stated at the Conference, "Is not skepticism warranted unless and until actions indicate seriousness about the structuring of women's participation in decision making bodies? Every Congregation in the Roman Curia is totally 
male.  Even  the  latest  norms  for  ec­ 
clesiastical  trials  of  marriage  cases  
formally  exclude  women  as  judges.  

Bishops Boards of Consultors remain male.. .if the women's movement is as Pope Paul declared <in hjs address on the International Women's Year), "A call of the Spirit," why have so few Bishops (and) so few theologians ... conceived it as a matter of conscience to address it seriously?" 
The other group that is oppressed within the Church is the laity. We are not op­pressed with the traditional clericism, but 
with a new form of clericism. Before Vatican II, the fact that every person did not seek out their ministry and live it could be considered as the ignorance of the in­dividual and the Church as a whole. But after the Council, when it realized and called the laity to fulfill its ministry, its role of priestly people, there arises responsibility. It is a joint responsibility, in one way, for the laities to search out their ministry. The other respon­sibility, and possibly a more serious one as it implies a selfishness for the power they hold, the failure of the Bishops and priests to fulfill their ministry of Magister, their teaching authority specifically given to them. 
This is a movement which will change the face of the Church. 'The Council changed the theoretical face, this movement will change the physical face. It strives to line up the Church's image with the Council's call and God's call. Father Richard McBrien, former President of the Catholic Theological Society stated that our unchanging· tradition of not ordaining women would be the most important consideration, if the world would end tomorrow. But if we see the Church in the light of eternity, today's Church may very well be seen as the infant Church in 20,000 years. 
The malady of creeping infallibility in to the ordinary Magisterium of the Church, where it does not belong, would be harm­ful. This Magisterium at one time con­demned democracy. Magisterium is not immutable. During the Council the Canon of the Mass was considered unchangeable. Then Pope John added St. Joseph to the Canon. Following Pope John's example., 
we  must  se~  what  is  unchangeable  
teaching  of  Christ  and  changeable,  
culturally  affected and tradition.  This  

tradition is Spirit guided, but to be guided something has to be going~ somewhere. 
Letters were sent to all 81 Bishops of the U.S., seeking to keep the dialogue open as called for by them. Of these 81 only 18 responded. At the beginning of the con­ference of the 81 invited none had come though five dioceses did send representatives). By the end of the Conference two auxilliaries from Detroit and one Bishop from Memphis were in attendance. 
eliminate its necessity, through their sick quest for signs and miracles, visions and apparitions. 
Faith needs doubt in order to develop. How can you be abeliever,without doubt? If you never doubted, If you never doubted, you wouldn't need faith, which is a hanging on in the midst of the insecurities and uncertainties of life. We know how often we resist walking with God into the unknown; we know how frequently he says, "Let go of the bush." And everytime we do relinquish control, we deepen· our commitment to him. He may ask that we let go in many ways-let ~o of our plans, directions, designs for the convenience and comfort of the "good life." He may ask that we let go of our favorite idols--our false notions of the meaning of gospel and what faith is all about. He may demand we let go of our bigotry and prejudice, our acts of pettiness and shallowness. 
The faith experience, that constant call to let go, will involve our willingness to leave the known and the familiar, for what is sometimes threatening and insecure. The doubts that will come along will cost us, but the transformation is worth the pain. Reflecting on the growth occasioned by doubt in his own life, Dostoevsky once exclaimed: "My hosannas were forged in the crucible of doubt." 
The only Christian answer to all our questions and doubts about this crazy world is that our God has fully celebrated and suffered all life has to offer in Jesus Christ. And through is victory, he calls out to us with hope. That, by the way, is the Advent message. Of all people, we are called to be rid of any misconceptions about this most fundamental fact: Faith plunges us into the unknown, yes; but that is the way to lull life. 

( 
( 
~ 

( 
( 
L i 
{ 
TheIsleyBI'Othel's TheHeat Is On 
Featuring: Fight The Power 
~ including. Foght The Po-/Hope Vou Feel Better Love
l, 
Senaualoty/MakeMe SayltAga~nGirl for The LOWI 01 Vou
1., 
.,' 
" 
PZ 33536 

$4.99 Records 
.. 
$6.29 

Tapes 

MINNIE RIPERTON ADVENTURES IN 
PARADISE 
includong: Feelin'That Your Feelin's Right When It Comes DownTo It/Love And lie Glory Inside My Love/Alone In Bre•..,te<r Bay 


JANIS IAN BETWEEN 
THEUNES 
oncludong: 
At Seventeen In The Wonter WhenThe PartysOver 
L19nt A Light 
BrtghtUghts AndPromrses 

oncluding: OrganiZe/So Good To Me Le Lo Li/Croasword Puule Green Eyed Monster Gorl/1 Get H19n OnYou 
t 
Theflying BurritoBros. 
FLYING AGAIN 
including: EalyToGet On/Building FI'"/Hot llurrito"3 Why a.byWhy/You LeftThew.te< Running 
Bill Withers Making Music 
oncluding. 

Paint 'flour Pretty Picture Make LoveTo 'flour Mond/Hello Loke Before Sometomes A Song/ll..t>oeVou Dawn 
KRIS KRISTOFFERSON 
InCluding: Eaay,Corne On 

The Year 2000 Monus 25/~(The Hunger) Stallion/Rocket To Stardom 
NEW RIDERS OF THE PURPLE SAGE OH, WHATAMIGHTY TIME 
tnclu<:hng. Moghly Tome/Up Agaonst TheWall. Redneck Take A Letter, Maroa Farewell Angehna/Lottle Old lady
t·: { 
FreddieHubbard UquidLove 
includong: 
Put II In The Pocket/Midnight AtThe Oasis Kuntu/Lost Dreams/Yesterday's Thoughts 
/~·: q' ~ ?f4' 
DAVID ESSEX 
11111/ut q_(J' 1/ut t/)<W~. 
oncluding: Rolling Stone/Hold Me Close/Coconut Ice Won't Get Burned Again/Watch Out (Cerolina) 
DAVE MASON SPLIT COCONUT 
includong: 
Two GUitar Lo-s She's A Froend/You Can Lose It Give Me A Reason Why/Long Lost Friend 
KANSAS 
~ 
including: It Takes A Woman's Love(To Make AMan) AI TheWorld/Two CentsWorth Child 01 lnnocence/Mya-a And Mayhem 
Barbra Streisand Lazy Afternoon 
including: My Father's Song Shako~ Me, WIIIM Me (When It'sOver) Vou And 1/Moanin' Law/A Child Is Bom 
RAMSEY LEWIS DON'TITFEEL GOOD 
oncluding 
Fosn Bite Wnafs The Name Of Thos Funk (Spi:let Man) Can't Functoon/Somelhing About You That'sThe Way Of The World 


ART GARFUNKEL PGML SU~uut. BREAKAWAY 
S/4JJCll4ff ~aiJlkJ. ~ 
including: 

induding: 1Only Have E yea For 'l'ou/99 Miles From LA. 
My Little Town 

My littleTown Look1119 ForThe Right One 
Gone At l.aat/.._ A GoodTme lllelie¥e (When I Fallin Love It Will Be Fore_I sa.r>tE-/IDoltforVourt.ow. 
GREATEST HITS 
lnc:ludinSI: 
Just 'l'ou ,.....,Cob.My World s.turcs.y InThe Pwtt/25 Or 810 4 (IW s-11 SNrchin'SoLong Wlahir!g'l'ou Were .... 

PC 33900 
herbie hancock man-child 
including: 

$4.99 
Haartbeat/The Tr.,.tor/Sun Touch Stepp~n' In It/Hang Up'~bur Hang Ups 

Records $6.29 Tapes 
The New Tony Williams Ufetime BelieveH 
Toys inthe Attic 
Including:
including: 
Snake Oii/Fred/Proto-~Aiert 

Walk ThlaW.y/No More No More Wildlife/Mr. Spack 
Toys Emotion 
BOB ,f;'tepheu.Sti/b;
DYLAN 
Stills

BLOOD ON tncludtng
THE TRACKS Myth Of Sosyphus My Fa>onte Changes 'Shuffle Just As Bad Turn BackThe Pages/ As ICome Of Age 
.ttl 
' 


including: llueE-c;rytngInThe­BencMre/Tme OfThe PrMci.­
€AmH,WINDbA~ 

-OnTheWhNI/RedHeadedSir-
Gratitude 
including: 
Sing ASong/Ceiebrete/Devotion Sun Godcleu/Shining St. 

WE'RE NOW OPEN : 
RECORDS  Mon  -Fri 10 -9  
255-0266  Sat 10-H  
9198 COLLEGF. SQUARE (Across from Town and Country)  Sun 12-6  


Tuesday, December 2, 1975
the observer
8 

Chinese warn Ford against Soviet detente 
PEKING <AP) -President Ford begins talks Tuesday with Chinese leaders who, at the start of his visit, warned him about what they see as the dan­gers of detente with the Soviet Union. 
The warning note was sounded by Vice Premier Teng Hsiao-ping in a toast at a lavish banquet at which Ford was honored just four hours after his arrival. 
·Teng, without mentioning the Soviet Union directly, referred to it as "the country which most zealously preaches peace · but is the most dangerous source of war." 
The vice premier, who is act­ing as premier during the ill­ness of Chou En-lai, added, 
"rhetoric about detente cannot significant that Ford's airport 5, 
welcome Monday afternoon was semester's activities. The formal
cover up the stark reality of will feature "Catch" fromthe growing danger of war." somewhat more elaborate than Chicago.
White House Press Secretary Nixon received when he made Ron Nessen said Ford consid-his trail-blazing trip nearly four During the dance, "Catch" will 
play a one-hour narrated history of 
I, rock and roll. In honor of the members of the senior class, the medley will begin with "Shaboom," the hit from the seniors' birthyear. 
Secretary destroyed 

FBI director·s files 
WASHINGTON (AP) J. Edgar Hoover's long-time sec­retary tod Congress on Monday that when the Federal Bureau of Investigation's director died in 1972, she systematically de­stroyed his personal files,.. "as Mr. Hoover indicated he want­ed." 
Helen W. Gandy told a House subcommittee that she and an­other secretary went through all the files in Hoover's inner offices, destroying every one that was marked "personal." 
"There were 30 or 32 file drawers. I did not keep a\ record of how many," she testi­fied. "I tore them up and put them in cartons. They were then taken to the Washington FBI field office to be either in­cinerated or shredded." 

Miss Gandy denied that the files she personally destroyed contained any official FBI busi­ness or information on the per­sonal lives of public officials. 
However, in contrasting com­ments, former FBI Asst. Direc­tor William C. Sullivan said Hoover's personal files were 

•; filled with political and person­al information on public fig­ures. 
Miss Gandy also said that she did not consider her actions to have violated an order by then acting-Atty. Gen. Richard G. Kleindienst that Hoover's of­fices be sealed. Kleindienst tes­tified to the subcommittee on government information that upon learning of Hoover's death 

'\ on May 2, 1972, he ordered that Hoover's suite of offices "be locked and sealed." 

"I didn't want to have any records of the FBI left in a po-
I 

ered Teng's remarks "frank years ago. but nonprovocative." Ford of­That the Chinese leadership fered no banquet toast of his attached great importance to own, but did give a speech. Ford's visit_ seemed under­
With American officials hav­scored by the appearance of ing indicated before Ford left Chairman Mao Tse-tung's wife, Washington that the President Chiang Ching, to pose with him and his hosts were unlikely to before the welcoming banquet 
agree about detente, Ford and held in the massive Great Hall Teng found common ground in of, the People. Chiang Ching pledging continued efforts to had not been seen in public for normalize relations between several months. 
their countries and to oppose big power hegemony, or the do­
Senior class officers announce
mination of neighbors through military force. 
Ten~ made direct mention of 
final first former President Richard M. Nixon's role in re-establishing The senior class officers have diplomatic contacts between released details for the final ac­
tivities of the first semester.
China and the United States. 
The Senior Christmas Formal at
Because of Chinese affection for Nixon, it was considered the Erskine Country Club on Fri., 
Dec. will be the last of this 
The medley will continue with sition where no one was respon­the big hit of each subsequent year. sible for them," Kleindienst It will feature 40 different artists said. Asked whether he thought and groups including Elvis Miss Gandy's action violated Presley, Fats Domino, Chubby his order, Kleindienst told com­Checker, "Chicago" and the mittee members: "I'll just Doobie Brothers. have to leave that up to you to Only a limited number of tickets draw your own conclusions." for the formal are available at the 
' 

Hawaiian officials assess destruction 
HILO, Hawaii <AP> -State Richter Scale. One man was and county officials reviewed killed when beach land sudden­damage estimates Monday to ly submerged, another was re­determine if the destruction ported missing and about two 
caused by weekend earth­dozen persons were hospitalized quakes and tidal waves war­over the weekend. ranted a disaster declaration. The Richter scale is a meas­
ure of ground motion as record-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
"Most areas seem to have es­ed on seismographs. Every in-
caped serious damage," said 
crease of one number, say fromHawaii County Mayor Herbert 
magnitude 5.s to magnitude 6.5,
Matayoshi. "I don't see how I means the ground motion is 10
can declare a general dis-times greater. Some expertsaster." 
say the actual amount of ener-
Matayoshi said a limited dis­gy released may be 30 times aster might be declared in the greater. Puna region, the southeast side The quake was the heaviest of the island where the quake on the island in a century and was centered and where dam­also marked the first time age was heaviest. since 1868 that earthquakes, tid­
Gov. George R. Ariyoshi dis­al waves and a volcano erup­
tion coincided.
patched a representative to the 
Damage the
island to assess the possibility was heavy inside 
Hawaii Volcanoes National
of state aid, and Matayoshi also was expecting some federal dis­Park, and most sections of the 
park were closed to visitors.
aster assistance . The damage total approached $2 million Monday, said Sunny Kim, county Civil Defense coor­dinator. The island was jarred Satur­day morning by two quakes, measuring 5.5 and 7.2 on the 

Perhaps more remarkable was the appearance at the pic­ture-taking session of Chu Teh, a leader of the Chinese army who, as chairman of the Stand­ing Committee of the National People's Congress, is regarded as-China's closest equivalent to a president. 
Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger told reporters that in all his visits to China he had 
semester projects 
Student Union Ticket Office. annual award. A run-off ballot of 
Deposits of $50 for the senior trip those interested in accepting the to the Bahamas will also be ac­award will be prepared for next cepted at the Student Union Ticket semester's voting. Office. A special meal plan for $42 Finally, the senior class officers 
for the complete week has been would like lo invite all January added as an option for the trip. graduates to return to participate The Senior Fellow Committee in the May commencement collected 42 nominations for the exercises. 
ONIGH 

NOT OPEN 
but tomorrow is DRINK 'N DROWN 
the Whitehouse Inn 
8 miles north of the State Line Take 31 to N-iles then north on 51, 3 miles 683 -9842 

never before met the 89-year­old Chu Teh. 
It was thought unlikely that Premier Chou's health would permit him to meet with Ford, but a session with Mao was ex­pected before Ford leaves China on Friday. Mrs. Chou was waiting at the President's borrowed residence in a VIP compound here to greet him on his arrival. 

THE POSTER PLACE 
100 11x17 POSTERS only $10.00 
insly·prints 
203 N. MAIN ST. SOUTH BEND 289-6977 

ARMANDO, FORMERLY OF ROCCO'S BARBER SHOP. IS NOW 
LOCATED NEAR CAMPUS TO GIVE YOU -THE CUT OR STYLE 
THAT YOU WANT 
c::/fvnanda'j_ !Ba"Lbt:.'l. & dfai"L c:Styft:. ~/;oj2 
OPEN SIX DAYS A WEEK 
MONDAY THRU FRIDAY 8 TO 5:30 -SATURDAY 8 TO 4 
PERSONALIZED SERVICE 
ARMANDO FEMIA 1437 N. IRONWOOD DR. 'PHONE 277·0615 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 







APARTMENT~ 
I 
_) 
,­
·, 

I NOW RENTING FOR SECOND SEMESTER!!I
, 
) 
1 

:~-FULLY FURNISHED ONE AND TWO BEDROOM APTS~
( 

\~~~:-SPECIAL 5 MONTH LEASES ARE AVAILABLE \~~; 
~~~-INDOOR POOL WILL BE COMPLETED BY FIRST ~~~~ 
~~~~ OF THE YEAR ~~~~~ 
* ~
f -NEW SECURITY LOCKS HAVE BEEN INSTALLED ~~;~~ 
~ * 
~ -NIGHTIME SECURITY GUARD ON DUTY ~~~3 ~-24 HR. MAINTENANCE -. \i ::::: ~~~L~~~~l4"1 FO~ ~~~RMAilQ.N
:::·:•••• :···:·····:•" ·.-.rr!"J • • .. ~ .. ~.. -.. .. -.. -.. • .. .. + ::::

:s w.ox-: ........ w....~ . ~ ~.Q'/. ~~..&: ... ~~-. _.'f>. -~~~..~u~~...,~~..r.~.:-e .._-~-·~..w~ ::::~·=·===·=·=-===-=~ ..-:-:·:-:?~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::.:;:; 
. .I \ 


Tuesday, December 2, 1975 
the observer 
9 

Coleman predicts veto 

'Ford will not accept tran:;portation bill' 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A way begins to meet the prob­Sen. Vance Hartke, D-lnd., al­organization that will run the and that the compensation torSenate bill that includes funds lems," Coleman told a news ready has been approved by reorganized railroads, $3 billion such "taking" was not equi­
to reorganize seven North­conference. 
the Senate Commerce Com­in government funds instead of table. Hartke's bill wold bypasseastern railroads is totally "If that bill is sent to him, he mittee. It is scheduled for ac­the $2.1 billion recommended the "taking" question and pro­unacceptable to the Ford ad­will veto it," Coleman said. He tion on the floor of the Senate by the administration. vide that the government wouldministration and will be vetoed added that President Ford, Tuesday. 
Coleman said the Hartke bill pay whatever the court ruledif passed by Congress, Secre­"because this is so important, Coleman said the adminis­also would allow ConRail to was the fair value of the prop­tary of Transpotation William will then call the Congress back tration basically was opposed convert the $3-billion funding to erty, Coleman said. Since theT. Coleman Jr. said Monday. into session over the Christmas to three sections of the Hartke grants, thus avoiding any pay­government has valued the rail­"The President is very dis­holidays (to work up a new bill: back to the government. In con­roads at $485 million and theturbed that the bill ... is com­bill.)'' -A section that would give trast, the administration's pro­railroads claim their assets arepletely unreasonable and in no The Senate bill, sponsored by ConRail, the quasi-government posed funding would require worth more than $7 billion, the 

ConRail to issue preferred government could be liable for 
stock to the government to se­a considerable sum.
Student Government completes 
cure the government in­-A section that would re­vestment. 
quire that the government-A section that would make rebuild track and equipment in

plans lor Christmas flights 
it easier for creditors of the the northeast corridor between 
Penn Central and the six other
Student Government is com­Washington and Boston to allow 
pm, Wednesday, Thursday and previous plane reservations just reorganized railroads to collect
pleting plans for group plane Amtrak to run 150 mile-per­
Friday at the Student Union Ticket because they sign up with us. The from the government if they
flights for Christmas vacation hour passenger trains. Coleman .
Office. A $30 non-refundable ultimate outcome depends on the decided the government's valu­I 
Flights will go to 10 cities, in­said this would cost about $6
deposit is required to make demand by the students." ation of their property was too billion. The administration hascluding Newark, New York, Pitt­reservations. "It will not be feasible for us to low.
sburgh, Philadelphia, Baltimore, proposed spending $1.2 billion
Deposits will be returned only if bus 10-20 people to Indianapolis
Washington, D.C., Rochester, Under existing law, the cred­on the corridor to restore that 
a flight is cancelled due to too few because of the cost of the buses. If
Buffalo, Hartford and Los Angeles. itors could sue the government track to its original condition
reservations. we don't get enough interested but could not collect unless a but has rejected the idea of up­Flights will leave Indianapolis Tom Fitzgerald, emphasized, students, then we will have to court ruled that the govern­grading it to allow !50-mile-per­
on Dec. 20 and 21. The return date "No one should cancel their cancel the plans," said Fitzgerald. ment had "taken" their assets hour train service.
is Sunday, Januaryll. Students will be transported to and from 
Indianapolis by bus. 
Students may sign up from 1-4 
The Notre Dame Chess Club surprised the South Bend Chess Team, Nov. 24, with an over­whelming eight to two victory. 
Jim Stevens, ·Chess club vice president, attributed the victory to the strength of the club's top boards as the first six secured victories. , 
Padraig O'Brian, a graduate student in mathematics, upset South Bend chess champion Sam Shapiro, a Notre Dame history professor. in a bitterJy contested match. Jay Polk and Bill Rreidenthal . won their games, each after four hours of play. 
Other winners for Notre Dame were Fred Kaouk, Jack Crothers, Franz Lanzinger, Stevens. and John Newcomer. 



·--------------------------· 
DID YOU RECEIVE OUR FREE 1976 CATALOG? I
I 
I 

I .. VALUE HOUSE
I If not, fill our catalog request form and bring it in on your next visit to our 
THt' HOl'S!' Of' ."'i.·l.tlt: BR. 1.\I)S

showroom and you will be added to our list of customers. Plus, you will II receive our New 400 Page Catalog. I CATALOG/SHOWROOMS
I 

, I SPICW.WU..O IIIOWIOOM HOtMS
I Monday thrv ~ 
I 9a30 ..... 'til ..30 p.­
I Name •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
PrWaya~·
I 
9130 ...... 'tfl 5&30 p.m.

I Street ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 1 
: CHy ··---····-···----·--················-················ I 
• SOUTH BEND -516 N. MICHIGAN ST. 

1 State••••••.•••••• _ •••••••••••••••••••• Zip••••••••_....... 1 
1 • MISHAWAKA-1428 W. 6th ST.

---------------------------· 
\ 
-_; 1 
-

.'~ 

:"i 
" 


i ' 
·J 
'I 
with



ristmas 




AMIFI Digital Clock Radio with Big Bright numerals 
Page digital read out with large lighted numerals. Wake­
to-Music or Wake-to-Alarm. Sleep switch shuts radio off. 
Sug. Ret. 42.95 

24-hour wake-up system. 4" 
VALUE HOUSE 

3· 197 

dynamic speaker. Walnut grain Catalog Price finish on polystyrene. 
AI/FM Digital Clock Radio with DIGITELs Time Display 

DIGITEL time display with 1" sharply defined lighted numer­als. Wake-to-Music or Wake­

(C4610)

to-Music and Alarm. Sleep switch adjustable to 3 hours. 
Sug. Ret. 72.95

lighted radio dial. Vernier tun­VALUE HOUSE
ing. Built-in AFC on FM. Ear­Catalog Pricephone/pillow speaker jack. 

Flair FM/AM Clock Radio with Snooz-Aiarm 
Wake-to-Music or Wake-to-Music and Alarm. Snooz-Aiarm® clock control. Lighted clock face for easy viewing in the dark. 4" top-fired dynamic speaker. Au­tomatic Volume Control. Walnut grain finish on polystyrene. Compact flair de­sign cabinet. Walnut grain finish on po­lystyrene. 
Sug. Ret. 31.95 
VALUE HOUSE 
2347 
Catalog Price 


8-Track Recorder 
Detachable 4.. dynamic speaker. Automatic or manual sequencing. Program indicator lights. Tone, balance, volume controls. Tone control for treble/boss. Uses batteries (not included), AC or auto/boot adopter (included). Recessed handle locks unit together for easy portability. Storage area for AC power and speaker cords. 
Sug. Ret. 72.95 VALUE HOUSE Catalog Price 



Slide controls for loudness, bal­ance, treble and bass. FM stereo indicator light. 8-track cartridge tape player with auto or manual programming. Large 21"x12" speaker enclosures with 8'' dy­namic bass woofer and 3" high frequency type cone tweeter. Jacks included for optional accessory recording and play back tape decks. 
Sug. Ret. 169.95 VALUE HOUSE Catalog Price 

~ 
TOY SHOWROOMS ARE NOW OPEN: 


HOME ENTERTAINMENT 
Compare • • • Then shop Value House and SAVE! 
FM/AM Portable Radio w/Public Senlce Band 
3 bands: FM, AM and PS (hi). Indicator shows band in use. Uses 4 "AA" batteries (not included) or AC. 3" dy­namic speaker. Slide rule vernier tuning. Squelch con­trol. 30" outboard whip an­tenna for FM/PS, ferrite rod for AM. High impact polys-S R. 

. ug. et. 32.95 tyrene case. VALUE HOUSE 
Catalog Price 

FM/AM Personal Size Radio -BaHeries or AC 

Switches from DC (battery) to AC when plugged into outlet. 3" dynamic speaker. Slide rule vernier tuning. Built-in AFC on FM. High-impact polystyrene case. Stitched carrying handle. Cord storage compartment. 

Operates on 4 "AA" batteries 
(not included). Sug. Ret. 25.95 VALUE HOUSE 

2Q37 
Catalog Price 
DC Cassette Recorder with Automatic 
Tape Shut Off  
Automatic end-of-tape shut­off. Slide-a-matic T-bar  
playjrecord, fast forward, rewind controls. Rotary vol­ume control. Accidental era­ 
sure prevention. Automatic level control. 3-way power capability. Remote control pencil-style dynamic micro­phone and stand. Hefty car­rying .handle.  Sug. Ret. 29.95 VALUE HOUSE  
Cataiog Price  



• : .. 1 • l 1 • . .; ; ' ~ 
•' , I ,. ' ~. (' \ •' t' • 
,
.. t ~· :-:, ., .

• ·:'\ ·_,, -'~· . I ..:. :, ~--• ,,." .' . .... . ' : . .-... -: • ' ! • ..(.1 ·' . ' ;4 ·{) . ~ . 
• :i .,l 'I • • ,"\ ..~· ~ _. .•-: '.(1 ~ ;_,· 
. , J ... • • -· . " 'Ill • .-. Jl:'• "' . I J . / • "{•. '· . \.I • 
t • ~ • 

4 .... ,., •••• _, • ..,..,., •• 1 ... J
·••• ..,, c•~··•· .• , 

• • • • • • •• "p # ,. • • • • ~ 
.·r­



Doctor slowdown causes Britishr~sd•Y· ---:::;;:...;.....,~-{t~h~!l"!;11ftje..,o······Lbserver 1 1 
hospitals to turn away patients 
LONDON <AP) British scheduled Wednesday. constitutes an emergency until hospitals turned away thou­The health department said the patient has been examined. The situation was com-
sands of patients Monday and no major hospitals had been 
some closed down emergency closed but most were treating plicated Monday by the entry wards as some specialists only emergencies as most of into the dispute of the special­
joined a nationwide work slow­Britain's 11,000 specialists were ists, who have a different griev­
ance against the National
down by hospital doctors. The reported "still .considering" 
crisis deepened in the socia­whether to stop filling in for the Health Service: the govern­lized hospital service. junior doctors and themselves ment's plan to phase out beds 
An ambulance official in Lon­stick to a 40-hour, five-day for private patients in NHS hos­pitals.
don, where more than one-third week. 
A spokesman at St. Bartholo­The hospital doc tors' disputeof 60 city hospitals had no casu­
is over a new contract that
alty services, said sooner or mew's Hospital in London, which has been treating would give them overtime paylater someone would die be­patients continuously for 850 after 44 hours a week instead ofcause of the confusion and re­years, said it would be open 80 as at present. Because of anstricted services. 
anti-inflation ceiling on wage
Health Services Minister Bar­Monday and Tuesday nights 
bara Castle told the House of with a skeleton staff for emer­increases, however, the pay­Commons the government gency patients, "but I can't go ments would have to be spread beyond that." so thin that the doctors say
could not give in to demands The British Medical Associ­some of them would actually
for more overtime pay from hospital doctors who are work­ation said its members would lose money. ing banker's hours and treating continue to treat emergencies A hospital doctor in the Na­
-including cancer, pregnancy tional Health Service starts atemergencies only. 
and childbirth and children's about $6,000 -less than the av­
More than half the country's 19,000 hospital doctors are esti­illnesses. However, nonpartici­erage industrial worker earns mated to be participating in the pating doctors said it is often -and works up to a little more 
slowdown. New talks were difficult to say whether a case than twice that. 
Power companies to utilize remote control to save energy 
MONTPELIER, Vt. <AP) -company, Central Vermont transmitters, on command Two Vermont power companies Public Service Corp., is testing from the company, sends an hope to be turning some of ripple control transmitters and impulse down the power line 
their customers' appliances on receivers to see if they with­that is detected by the receiv­
and off by remote control by stand Vermont's cold, stormy er, which in turn switches an the end of the year in an ex­winter weather. appliance on or off. periment to save money and Electricity-operated devices
Central Vermont hopes to

conserve energy. not on the system, such as
have the equipment in oper­

lights and clocks, are not af­
ation on a test basis by the end

The state's two largest elec­fected.
of the year, said John Romano,tric companies are gearing up energy systems analyst for thefor consumer tests of ripple Vermont Public Service Board.

control: sending a signal down a power line to control selected 
Thousands of Portuguese flee to Brazil
"As far as I can tell, theseappliances such as hot water two are the only experiments of

heaters, washing machines, RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil try with a population of 107 mil-from scratch," said Antonio
their kind in the country," he

clothes dryers and food freez­<AP> -Portuguese are coming lion. Pereira, 46, a native of Portu­
said. 

ers. by the thousands as refugees Usually this documentation gal who emigrated to Angola 30 and emigres to Brazil, a South process takes about two years ago.
While ripple control has been

The idea is to run the equip­American country that speaks months, but for the Portuguese "Angola was our life. Brazil
used extensively in Europe for

ment during periods when there their language. it takes only two weeks. has been good to us but it can
more than a decade and has

is little demand on power com­Portuguese-Brazilian societies Portugal settled Brazil in the never be the same," said Bel-
been discussed recently in this 

pany generators. Electricity is here say about 40,000 have 16th century and it became miro Xavier, 45, also a Portu­
country, Vermont is the first

less expensive to produce and come here so far this year not part of its empire. Although it.. guese emigrant to Angola.
state to actually put a working

the companies charge their cus­only from troubled Portugal it­proclaimed independence in Xavier arrived here Nov. 14
system into use, he said.

tomers less during such peri­self but also from Mozambique 1822, Brazil has always consid-with his wife and theee chil­ods. If all goes well, the two com­and Angola, two territories in ered Portugal as the mother dren. Since his arrival he has panies -which supply roughly Africa that recently gained in­country. been seeking work as a taxicab During periods of heavy use, three-quarters of Vermont's dependence from the Portu­The task of finding homes mechanic and looking for an the utility would send an im­electricity -could be using guese. and jobs ~or the new immi-apartment. His family is stay-pulse down the !ine to turn the ripple control on a wide-scale About 12,000 have fled to Bra­grants has been taken over by ing with one of several families appliances off. basis within two or three years, zil since September from Ango­the Federation of Portuguese in Rio's 200,000 member Portu­he said. la, which gained independence and the Luso-Brazilian Associ-guese community which has
Green Mountain Power Corp., 
last month in the midst of a ation, privately funded organ-embarked on a campaign tothe state's second largest utili­•
Under the system being test-civil war in which three native izations. provide the Angolan refugeesty, unveils its ripple control ed in Vermont, the utilities in­groups are struggling for pow­The small waiting rooms of with food, shelter and clothing.
system Tuesday. 

stall receivers on equipment er. these two groups are filled Victor de Almeida Saeiro, 21, Within the next few weeks, their customers want operated daily with Angolans these days. a bachelor who was a J>usiness­
The Brazilian government,

the <'ompany plans to install only when power demands are man in Angola's capital city of
happy with some of the skills 

Some of the refugees say Laanda, has found work as aequipment in the homes of 100 down and the companies are the refugees are bringing with 
South Burlington customers charging less for electricity. they lost everything they owned farmer in Brazil's southern
them, is speeding up the docu­

in their flight. Many have rela-state of Santa Catarina.
participating in a two-year Sendin8 !lnits are coupled to mentation process that will per­
lives or friends in Brazil to ,.------~--------, 



r 
r 
r 



r ' 
' 


----------------------------------------------------------------------· 
Physical Irish defeat Kent State 
Adrian Dantley's 25 points leads Irish to 90-61 viet Saturda ·lace Val o toni t 
by Bill Brink kept Kent State tired and in con­Sports Editor stant foul trouble. Dantley began Like a machine, a little rusty to penetrate inside for some from eight months of inactivity, dazzling layups \ and numerous 
the Notre Dame basketball team three-point opportunities. With wore down the Golden Flashes of Toby Knight, Williams and Dave Kent State to notch a 9<H>I victory Batton also adding to the score the in their season opener here Irish inched away from the now­Saturday afternoon. sluggish Flashes. They never 
It was, as head coach Richard streaked away from Kent, their 'Digger' Phelps called it, a longest string of points in a row "typical first game," as the Irish being nine, late in the second half 
were not quite on track both of­when the game was already won. fensively and defensively. But with Rather, they kept plugging away 
a steady, physical attack and until foul trouble and weariness aggressive play off the boards, overcame the Flashes. they tired out Rex Hughes' Flashes Four minutes into the second 
and dominated the second half half the Irish upped their five-point completely. halftime lead to ten, 45-35, on two "Our timing was off and our jumpers by Bill Paterno and a execution was off," said Phelps. Dantley free throw. Batton, Knight "They were playing a zone and and freshman Bruce Flowers until we broke it we couldn't get combined to increase Notre going. We just had to be physical Dame's margin, and Dantley gave and aggressive and wear them the Irish a fifteen point lead, 54-39, down." when he hit a corner jumper with 

--~~~--------------------------------------~-----------------------­
12 the observer Tuesday, December 2, 1975 
The key to the Irish dominance 11 :48left in the game. Meanwhile, 

Tough man-to-man defense In th second half eMbled the Irish to pull away from Kent State and was the fact that they never let up. Kent's starting forward Odell Ball, register a 90-61 victory Saturday afternoon. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
Unable to penetrate inside against had fouled out early in the half, and game and hit .606 per cent of their Ashby should be their top per­Kent's zone, and having difficulty Brown was playing with four fouls. rebounding team. Offensively, it free throws.

Ahead 72-53 with five minutes was a great team effort. Adrian's
hitting the outside jumpers in the former. Ashby averaged 11.~
Tonight the Irish square off

first half, they maintained their remaining in the game, the Irish sacrificing a lot for the team points per game last year. The rest 
against the Crusaders of

edge through constant pressure then ran off their 9-Q streak that because we're in a situation now of the lineup figures to be young,
Valparaiso. Coach Bill Purden's 

gave them an 81-53 lead a minute where the other guys are going to
and hustle. Nine point halves by w1th three freshmen expected to
club is coming off a 14-11 season

later. Brown then fouled out for score when they drop off on him."
forward Adrian Dantley and guard contribute greatly. Tipoff is at 8: 00
but has lost all five of its starters to

Don 'Duck' Williams spurred them Kent, and the NO substitutes came "I don't get the ball as much o.m. in the ACC.
graduation. 6-5 forward Darryl

on to finish the game. against a zone," explained Dan­to a 38-33 halftime lead. The 
Hey. "But the rest of the team has
Flashes stayed close through the Substitute was a frequent word 

proved they can score. We just
efforts of their two junior college in Phelp's dictionary that af­

transfer guards Jim Collins and ternoon though as he continually played aggressive·, got them in Corteze Brown, who had ten and went to his bench. All three fresh­foul trouble and wore them down." nine points respectively. men, Flowers, Bill Laimbeer and Knight was second to Dantley in 
scoring with 14 points, and was the
"I wasn't satisfied defensively in guard Bernard Rencher saw ac­the first half," said Phelps. "We tion, with !<"'lowers contributing 11 game's leading rebounder, pulling gave up too many layups and too points in his first collegiatre down thirteen caroms. Batton 
added twelve points for NO and
many fast breaks. We had to get outing. 

aggressive and play full-court "I wanted to play our freshmen a Williams had eleven. For State, basketball to wear them out." lot and give them the experience Corteze Brown notched nineteen The Irish did just that. Relen­now," Phelps explained. "They're points and Collins had sixteen. tlessly applying pressure, they going to make mistakes now, but Guard Ray Martin, the playmaker we're J!Oing to have to live with for the Irish, had nine assists. 
them.-They have to learn Notre Dame had a .467 shootingAP Cage Poll sometime.'' percentage from the floor for the Defensively, the Irish' tough
By The Associated Press man-to-man coverage began tol.lndiana (55) 1-0 1,116 take its toll on the Flashes in the 

Irish finish season with
2.Maryland 1-0 862 second half. NO took away the3.Marquette 0-0 777 easy layup and maintained their4.N.Carolina 1-0 696 dominance of the boards. Of­

32-9 victory over Miami
5.UCLA 0-1 575 

fensively, their well-rounded6.Louisville 1-0 430 lineup was able to connect when by Fred Herbst 
7.Kentucky 0-0 425 

Kent's zone tied up Dantley.8.Tennessee (1) 1-0 385 Williams and Batton were hitting The sometimes brilliant,9.Notre Dame 1-0 375 from the outside while Knight and sometimes dismal Notre Dame 10.Cincinnati 1-0 279 Flowers were aggressive un­football team ended their 1975 ll.Arizona 1-0 266 derneath the basket. Dantley season on a bright note last week 12.San Francisco 1-0 222 meanwhile, did manage to ~rack by defeating Miami 32-9 in the 
13.N .C.St. 1-0 191 the zone for sixteen second-half Orange Bowl. 
14.Alabama 0-0 166 points and a 25 point total, tops in While the statistics indicate that 

15. Providence 2-0 113 the game. the game was a closely contested 16.Michigan 0-0 93 "We were playing better, more battle, in actuality the Irish 
17 .Auburn 0-0 89 consistent defense in the second dominated play from the opening18.Kansas St. 0-1 39 

half," said Phelps. "That's been kickoff. The Notre Dame defense 19.Ariz. St. 0-0 23 our objective all year, to be a totally thwarted Miami's efforts to 
20. Washington 2-0 22 

better defensive team and a better generate an offense by scoring a safety and forcing five turnovers, four of which led to Irish scores. 
After receiving the opening kickoff Miami was forced to punt. Taking possession at their own 49, the Irish used the strong running of Jerome Heavens and Al Hunter to drive to the Miami 9. When the Hurricane defense stiffened, Dave Reeve was called on to boot a 26 yard field goal to give the Irish a 3­0 lead. 
Kary Baker replaced starting quarterback Frank Glover on Miami's next possession and immediately passed to Larry Cain Becker recovered another Miami The final score for Notre Dame 
for a 62 yard gain to the Notre fumble, this one at the Hurricane carne with less than a minute 1eft Dame 18. The play was the 13. Two plays later Rick Slager as Joe Restic passed ten yards to highlight of the game for the passed to Ken MacMee for a MacAfee. The touchdown was the Hurricanes, and accounted for touchdown and Notre Dame went result of a 83 yard drive, set up by
almost a quarter of their total into the locker room leading 19-3. an interception by Tim Simon, and offense. Late in ~he third quarter Miami's made the final score 32-9. 
The Irish defense refused to offense finally moved the ball, Jerome Heavens rushed for 74 yield any farther, and Miami was driving 52 yards for a score. The yards while AI Hunter added 65. forced to settle for a Chris Dennis touchdown came on a 38 yard pass and were
Heavens Hunter con­
field goal and a 3-3 tie at the end of from Baker to Cain. The try for a sistent performers in an otherwise the first quarter. 
two-point conversion failed, erratic Notre Dame offense. Tom 
Early in the second quarter Ross leaving the Irish ahead 19-9. Lopienski, Ross Browner, Jim Browner recovered a Hurricane 
When it looked like Miami was Stock and Steve Niehaus led the fumble at the Miami 12. From going to make a ballgame of it defense against Miami, a defense 
there Hunter ran for ten yards and early in the final quarter, Baker that was up and down all season. Heavens scored from two yards fumbled and Willie Fry recovered The win enabled the Irish to out to put the Irish ahead 1Q-3. On for the Irish at the Hurricane 41. 
close the season with an 8-3 record,Miami's next possssession, Mike From there Jim Browner ant! 
the first time Notre Dame has lost Archer faked a punt in his endzone Hunter carried the ball to the two, three regular season games since and was tackled by Browner for a where Hunter scored around right 
1963. The Irish are not ranked in 
safety and a 12-3 Irish lead. With end. Reeve's extra point attempt the top twenty either, for the first 
1:48 remianing in the half Doug was wide and the Irish led 25-9. time since 1963. 
*Observer 









