


server 
university of notre dome -st. mary's college
Vol. IX, No. 99 Wednesday, March 12, 1975 
Hesburgh to confer honorary degree 
Ford to visit Monday 

University Village residents cite need 
•

for improvements 1n apartment housing 
by Mary Reher but we need some place to put air named claimed there were in­apartment through the baseboard for being so efficient and willing to conditioners and seasonal sufficient playground facilities for on the first floor and of worms "fix anything." They also enjoyed 
Staff Reporter 

clothes." the number of children. For 109 t•ntering the ground-level windows. havihg the low rent of $85 a month families there are a total of 10 Most of the residents ap-and living with other students inUniversity Village residents, Payne said, "There have been swings' <including baby swings), Qr.•dated the maintenance man the Village.
although grateful for low rent, some complaints about the heat. 
yesterday expressed a need for The people living on the ground two sand pits and two sewer 
housing improvements, including floor lose a lot of heat to those conduits for the children to crawl 
Sommer speech
l'xtra storage room and better heat upstairs through the ceiling and through. distribution. walls. and there is a big dif­
She then continued, noting the

f'r. Joseph E. Payne, University ferential in the bills." 
need for new paint and 

Village chaplain, stated "The A family living on the ground 
wallpapering. "Some of the 

students are grateful for the low floor was away for two weeks and 
apartments have never had their 


~~~~'~ro~~~ ~~w !:2.~P.~
rent but are afraid to ask for had a heating bill for $40 while 
ceilings repainted and have the 

of the Securities and Exchange world, Sommer noted.
anything such as repainting the those living upstairs had a bill for original wallpapering, and the Commission in Washington, Sommer .also ~tated that post­walls or rewallpapering them $23, Payne cited as an example. 
buildings are 14 or 15 years old. We 

outlined the major trends in in-~ar Amer1can mdustry .has hadbecause they're scared their rent He assumed the first family had 
would like to get permission to 

vestment yesterday in an address little regard for the env1ronme~tmight be raised." turned down the heat for the 
repaint or wallpaper ourselves," 

in the Library Auditorium. and ~an no longer afford t~1s"The biggest thing on the list is duration of their absence. 
she said. 

Sommer's comments highlighted practice. He .added that co~recbvethe need for more storage room," The apartments are electrically "The walls of the apartment are the first day of the Finance Forum, proc~sses Will b~ expensive and 
not insulated for noise," she said, 

a convocation sponsored by the require mu~h capital.adding that it can become quite Notre Dame Finance Club which In asses~mg the future of stock noisy with little children. hosts prominent leaders in the mar~et mvestmen~, . So.~mer 
Payne stated, "There is a path business world. predicted a decrease 1!1 mdiVIdu~l from the University Village to the Sommer said the energy crisis is ~nv~st~ent . and . an mcrease m community center where, if you compelling American industry to mshtuhonalized mve~tmen.t. 
step off the driveway, quite often 

develop alternative sources of ~h~ reason for ~~.s SWI!lg, ~e especially in the fall and spring, energy which had been discarded sa1d,IS that the dechnmg pr1ces m you need a rowboat to get across." in the past as too expensive to the la~t few years have forced 
One resident said one morning finance. The oil embargo, small mvestors out of th~ market she saw a woman carrying two however, has demonstrated the a~d more ?f the smaller mvestors babies across to the community need for u.S. "energy self-Will remam out of the market center and fell in the mud. . sufficiency" within the next permanently. He n~ted that.small 
Payne observed, "A lot of these decade, Sommer stated. m~estors ~ho contmue to mvest people ride bikes to campus for To accomplish this goal,Sommer Will ?egm to se~k more class across a path from Douglas said, the u.s. will have to spend pro~ess~onal help from mvestment 
Road to the cemetary wherethereis b tw aoo b'll' d t ·n· msbtuboms.
RESIDENTS OF UNIVERSITY Village expressed a need for a rut across the field that does not e ee~ 1 Ion an one ri Ion Also speaking yesterday were housing improvements, specifically more storage room and better clear until May." dollars m the next ten ye~rs. Robert Dederick, senior vice-
heat distribution. C Photo by 'Paul Joyce). The need for more room in the Anothe~ developmen~ Cited by president and economist for the Sommer IS that the Umted States Northerri Trust Company, and
stated one of the residents, who heated with a heating element apartments was cited by Mrs. 
current~y lacks ..t~e mod~rn Earl Scheid, senior vice-presidentwished to remain anonymous. around the base board that is Joseph Cassarino. "The apart­produ~t10~ facilities which and director of research at theUniversity Village students have exposed, noted Payne. There have ments are in pretty good condition countnes hke West Germa~y and Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago.
children with bicycles and been cases of blankets catching for how old they are, but I suppose Japan now have. Acco~dmg to Today's speakers will includetricycles which need to be stored fire upon contact with the heating they could be a little bigger. I do 
. Somme~, modern plants l!l~rease Warren Lebeck, president of he
but there is no room, she said. "We elements and some children have not think there would be enough pr~ducbo~ and boost effici~ncy, Chicago Board of Trade andget in trouble for leaving things in been burned. He suggested a grill room for people with two wh1~h ultimately lead to h1gher Thomas Murphy, Notre 'Damethe hall," she continued. "We have or screen surrounding the hot ar~a children," she stated. 
profits. f f F' d B · 
very nice kitchen cabinets and would prevent such accidents. The nameless resident com­Only through bul'ldi'ng new pro essor o mance an usmess they have done what they could, The resident wishing to be un-plained of ants entering the . . . . Economics.
fac1ht1es can the U.S. remam the 
by Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief 

University President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh will present an honorary doctor of laws degree to President Gerald R. Ford next Monday, March 17. The presidential visit was confirmed by Hesburgh today in a special notice to the students of Notre Dame an­nouncing that the presentation will be made at a Special Academic Convocation in the ACC at 11 a.m. on Monday. · 
In his announcement, Hesburgh stated that Ford would deliver an address but did not specify the nature of the speech. A White House spokesman said yesterday the content of the address would not be released before Saturday. 
Hesburgh also said that all classes will be cancelled from 9:30a.m. to 1:10 p.m. and University offices will be closed from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. "in order that the entire University community may participate in this memorable event." 
Timetable 

A complete timetable of events has not yet been 
disclosed by the White House. The President is ex­
pected to remain on campus at least through dinner, 
Richard Conklin, director of Information Services said 
yesterday. 
Another informed source said that the Presidential 
party would arrive aboard Air Force One at the 
Michiana Regional Airport about 10 a.m. Monday. 
According to Conklin, presidential advance men are 
on campus preparing arrangements for the visit. He 
identified the Center for Continuing Education, the 
Morris Inn and 14th floor of the Memorial Library as 
other sites being prepared for possible Ford ap­
pearances in addition to the ceremony in the 12,500­
seat Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Text of Hesburgh statement 
To The Students of Notre Dame: 
On only two occasions, in 1935 and 1960, bave Notre Dame students had the opportunity to welcome the President of the United States to their campus. That rare opportunity will be yours when President Gerald 
R. Ford visits the University on Monday, March 11th. 
It gives me great pleasure to invite each of you to attend a Special Academic Convocation in the Athletic and Convocation Center on Monday at 11:00 a.m. An honorary Doctor of Laws degree will be conferred on President Ford and he will deliver an address. In order that the entire University community may participate in this memorable event, I have directed that classes be cancelled from 9:30a.m. to 1:10 p.m. and that t!niversity offices be closed from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
I know that you will join the University faculty and administration and me in welcoming President Ford and our other distinguished guests on Monday. 
Ever devotedly in Notre Dame, <Rev.) Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. President 
Possible Events 

Besides the Special Academic Convocation, no other planned events have been confirmed by Conklin or the White House. A story carried by United Press In­ternational yesterday had reported the scheduling of a dinner with Midwestern governors and a news con­ference. 
A check yesterday with the governors in the four-
state area, only confirmed the schedule appearance of Otis R. Bowen, governor of Indiana. Appointment secretaries for Gov. Daniel Walker, Illinois Democrat, Gov. Ray Milliken, Michigan Republican and Gov. James Rhodes, Ohio Republican denied knowledge of any planned appearances at Notre Dame next Monday by their governors. 
The President is expected to remain on the campus throughout the day. The possibility of meetings with student leaders, administrators and faculty also exist, according to an informed source. 
Hesburgh's Invitation 
A formal, written invitation to come to Notre Dame was made to Ford in a March 5letter from Hesburgh. In a release of excerpts from that letter, Hesburgh expressed his delight over the appearance of members of Ford administration on university campuses. 
"With so many problems besetting the country and the world, we in higher education welcome both your presence and your thoughts as we all seek for solutions," Hesburgh wrote. 
He went to request the President's presence saying it would be a "great honor and pleasure." 
The St. Patrick's day visit by Ford will make the third made to the Notre Dame campus by a United States president while in office. Honorary degrees were awarded to President Franklin Roosevelt in 1935 and President Dwight Eisenhower in 1960 during graduation. 
Fr. Hesburgh, former chairman of the Civil Rights Commission, has been president of Notre Dame since 1952. Presently, he is a member of Ford's Clemency Board which reviews cases of those convicted by military or civilian courts for refusing service in the armed forces during the Vietnam War. 
The 58-year old University president is scheduled to leave today for Key Biscayne, Florida to attend a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Board·of Trustees while preparations are made for Ford's visit. 
L____________________________________________ 

Wednesday, March 12,.1975
the observer 


warld briefs 
NEWARK, N.J. (UPil -A Newark man with a "longi record" of assualts on policemen; was shotto death Tuesday after he hacked and wounded atraffic officer with an ax before the eyes of hundreds of pedestrians at a busy intersection. 
SAGION (UPil -Communist forces Tuesday launched a nationwide offensive that forced South Vietnamese troops to fall back before coordinated tank and infantry assaults stretching from Saigon to northernmost Quand Tri province, the military command said. 
The Saigon command an­nounced the loss of three district capitals--the equivalent of U.S. country seats--and a reported street fighting in a besieged fourth. 
LISBON (UPil . Rebel war­planes bombed an antiaircraft barracks and paratroops seized Lisbon's civilian airport in a sudden rebellion Tuesday. 
an campus 
today 
11:15 a.m.--finance forum, "incentives--the answer to the world food crisis," by warren leback, 122 hayes-healy. 
2:15 p.m.--finance forum, "a look at the stock market today," by prof. thomas murphy, 122 hayes-healy. 
4:30 
p.m.--colloquium, "elec­tromagnetic form factors of unstable particles," by dr. paul shephard, unlv. of pittsburgh, 118 niewland sci. hall 

4:30 
p.m.--lecture, "electronic excitations in dense rare gases," by joshua jortner, 123 niewland sci. hall. 


5 p.m.--vespers, evensong, log 
chapel. 
6:30 p.m.--meeting, sailing club, 204 eng. bldg. 
7:00 p.m.--meeting, prospective irish studies students, 210 o'shag. 
7:30 
p.m.--lecture, "democracy in america," by mohn Iukacs, american scene series, carrot hall. 

7:30 
p.m.--talk, dean macheca, sorin lounge. 


8 p.m.--concert, joe walsh, ace, 
tl-:kets: $6, $5, $4 
8 p.m.--lecture, nicholas von 
hoffman, wash. hall. 
8:15 p.m.--concert, south bend chamber music society, lib. aud. 

··············································: 
EThis Week Wed., Fri., Sat.,i
•
•

• THIRD POWER i
• 
•

• SYMPHONY i
• 

•• 
No Cover Wed. •:
• • • 
•
• •
• • 

• .•.
•

• !I
• 
•

• 2046 South Bend Ave. •••
• This Friday & Saturday are ND & SMC Nights 
..•

: NO COVER WITH THIS AD 
!Monday Beer Nite 8 p.m. • 2 a.m.:• :..........................................•... 
HPC discusses lighting conditions 
by Lonnie Luna Staff Rt>porter 
Rich Morton, Fisher Hall president, informed the HPC of the poor lighting conditions in the University last night at the HPC meeting in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
''There have been several un­verified reports of assaults on the Notre Dame and St. Mary's women," stated Morton. "We recommend that the women, if they are to walk at night, stay away from the following areas: the areas around the Administration Building. Sacred Heart Church, between Nieuwland Science Building and the Fieldhouse, behind LaFortune, in front of Morrissey and the parking lots." 
Money saving 
tips offered for 
vacation travel 
by Ft'l'd llt>rbst Starr Ht>portt>r 
Despite the expense of travel today, it is still possible for students traveling during spring break to save money. 
When travelling by air, the most important thing for students to remember is to ask questions when making reservations, a United Airlines official stated. By askmg for thru-fare, connecting flights and direct flights the student can not only save money, but time as wdl. 
While many students believe that they can save money by driving to Chicago and flying from there, this is generally not ll case. For example, a flight from Chicago to the West Coast costs $146.37 while flying from South Bend to Chicago and then west costs $150.74. 
Also from time to time, airlines 
make different promotional offers 
that may save the student money. 
Astudent should always ask about 
these when making reservations, 
the official said. 
Students travelling by bus may
also be able to save money. Again, students should ask questions when buying tickets. When 
travelling by bus, students can save 5 per cent of their fare· by purchasing a round-trip ticket. 
The Pittsburgh Club bus is available to students living in the Pittsburgh area at a significant
savings. Round trip costs for members is $28 and $30 for non­members. This is approximately
$15 cheaper than traveling by commercial bus. 
Students living in the Cleveland 
area are able to save significantly 
by taking the Clevelend Club's bus. The cost of the club's bus is $20 for members and $22 for non­members. This is a savings of about ten dollars over commercial bus service. 
explained Morton. 

Women living in the South Quad, if at the library, should..,.,.alk to O'Shaughnessy and then straight across the lighted pathway; if they are going to walk by the Fieldhouse, they should walk between Breen-Phillips and the Fieldhouse, continued Morton. 
"We hope that students walking in the same direction will prevent any attempts," commented Morton. There is evidence that the assailants are from South Bend, added Morton. 
"We are currently drafting a proposal to have a Student Escort Service similar to the one at the University of Denver," explained Morton. 
"If a woman is stranded at the library. or any other place and desires to be escorted, all she would have to do is call the Service and an escort would be sent to take her home. The escorts will provide identification to assure the women and prevent coincidental false cscorts." continued Morton. 
This service will be strictly on volunteer basis and the escorts will have to work one or two hours a week. added Morton. 
"We are also asking the l'niversity to get more security guards to patrol the parking lots. The University will improve the current lighting system. con­centrating on the bad spots." concluded Morton. 
Kt>vin McGuire. An Tostal committee member. revealed to the HP(' an added attraction for the festival. 
"The attraction will be a 'Mr. <'ampus' contest. All male dorms and possibly the female dorms will l'ontribute one representative, chosen at their own discretion," cxplained McGuire. The contest will follow the format of the Miss 
The Observer is published dally during the college seml!!lter except 11acations by the students of the Uni11ersity of Notre Dame •nd St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S9 per semester (Sl6 per year) from The Observer Box· Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

~ aucdle ~~ICDCDfD 
STEREO TAPES S-track & cassettes • over 1000 rock & popular titles • only $1.99 each 
• free brochure 

write: AUDIO LOOP CO. DEPT.500 P.O. BOX 43355 CLEVELAND OHIO 44143 
At BURGER CHEF •••give your sandwich the "works" at 
NO EXTRA CHARGE 
Relish 

Fix your own burger the way youlocations like it at our new Works Bar. 1716 N Ironwood 'H~lp your~elf to let_tuce, tomatoes, 
hi 
• omons, rehsh and pwkles. If mustard and catsup are all you want, it's there
52920 U.S. 31 Nort foryoutoo.Haveasmuchoraslittleas --. you want at the Burger Chef Works Bar(at cIeveIand Rd.) ...and bu!Id your burger just the way 
you want It. 

Amenca pageant: swimsuit the HPC. The part of the HPC competition, evening wear, talent committee report considered was competition and personality the decreasing of the size of the competition, continued McGuire. SLC and that the HPC included in 
Fifteen judges will be selected at the SLC. random from the ND-SMC com­The SLC compromised the size munity. All students will be given decrease to fifteen (5 ad­a number and the numbers will be ministrators, 5 faculty members, called out half-an-hour before the and 5 students). The student body contest. segment of the SLC will consist of 
Frank Flanagan, SBVP, turned the SBP or SBVP, the HPC in the HPC committee report to the representative and three other committe in charge of the future of student representatives. 


GRADUATE PARTY 
at Lewis Hall 

UNLIMITED WINE AND CHEESE 
FRIDAY, MARCH 14 9:00 P.M. TICKETS: $1.00 IN ADVANCE (AT LEWIS HALL DESK) $1.50 AT DOOR 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 

$895 
Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
HICKORY INN MOTEl 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 
& F •d 

'"""'ALPACINQ..,KITIYWINN
Thursdav rl ay 
iliiL<Iolllv.Jll!kYSDillllllll\; 
Engineering Auditorium 8, 10 p.m. One Dollar Admission 
Cinema 75 Patrons Free 
·L-------------------------------------------------------------.. 
Wednesday, March 12, 1975 th~ observer 
'Ticket only' policy attacked 
SMC elections draw one ticket 
" . . . . the Faculty Evaluation Committee that most people in student
by Mar~ Jan~a proposes to apply ~Is expene~ce w1th the new SMC pre_s1dent, Dr. and the Open-House Committee. government already knowone St. Mary s Editor towards the for~at10n of a VItal John Duggan, accordmg to the Bilek, prospective vice president another." . go,~ernmg body. . . platform. . . for student affairs, currently She continued, noting that 
Joan McDermott, _candidate f~r W_e hope to accm;nplish_ this ?Y . The c~ndida~e.s th~n contmue? to serves as sophomore class candidat_es don't know, until after student body president, Joame workmg as a cohesive umt to m-list their qualifiCatiOns for office. president and a member of the the electiOn when they must work Durl_acher, candidate_ for v_ice crease the effi~iency of st~dent SBP hopeful McDer'?o~t stated, Board of Governance. Last year, : together, ~hether they actually pres1dent for academic. affairs, government. This can ~e a~h1eved "I am presently the ~umor cla~s she was a member of the Student · can do so." and Mar~ Lu Bilek, candidate _for through ~lose commumcation and pre~ident. I. am mvolved m Assembly and the Regina Hall This policy, the student said,also vice presi_dent for stude~t affairs, cooperati.on among. ~ursel~es as various comm1tte~s ~uch as the Council puts the student body at a disad­representmg the only, ticket run-well as ~1th the admimstrati~n and reviewmg accreditation f_or the vantage, since the entire ticket ning for St. Mary s student faculty, the platform contmues. College, and the Curnculum Charges against 'ticket only' must elected into office. government elections, submitted The three candidates noted that Committee, as well as the Board of rl.'quirement "If someone wanted to vote for their proposal yesterday morning as St. Mary's is in a period of Governance and Student Affairs one candidate on a ticket but not 
prior to the 8 a.m. deadline. transition, "it is important that Commission. A student, whosename is held the others she can't do ; " she 
Stating that each member of the student concerns are not lost in the Durlacher, candidate for v.p. for upon request, contacted the Ob-commented. 0 ' ticket had "extensive .~xperi_ence shuffle." With this _as the.ir g~al, academic affairs, presently serves sl.'rver, charging that the Garrett also noted that the policy in student government, the ticket they plan to work m conjunction as a member of Student Assembly, requirement for all candidate run of running on a ticket had always 
BUsl·ness students al·d l·n ~:ra :~~1 tb~t~tgi:.::a li~~f!n~fu~~~ ~~:~~~lloi~eds~~s:: y:~~~r~::~~~
stated that she had initially structure two years ago to a planned to run for SBP, but did not comrriissionf.;r system, this policy
t. I I ture pro s receive ample time to form a was not followed."
se1ec l 0 n 0 u f 
ticket. GaErarreltiterprtohpisosesdemaesrteert·u.rtnhotuogha,
According to present Legislative
by Marianne Morgan prospective candidates and can communicate, his sense of Commissioner Joanne Garret, this more traditional structure. This Staff Rl.'porter evaluate them to whether they humor, his attitudes towards his requirement "is inherent in the restructuring replaced the com­would be good teachers, Bella said. work, the type of exams he gives, president-vice president structure missioners with a modified 
In the College of Business Ad-As explained by Professor Bella, etc. The students submit their of government. In our national president-vice president system. ministration, students assist in the the procedure for hiring a teacher opinions to him. The group of elections, presidential and vice selection of future professors in is to select a half dozen people students were chosen by his presidential candidates must run Lack of interest their department, according to from the pool of applicants and Student Assistant Robert on a ticket. Why should St. Mary's 
Professor Salvatore Bella, invite them to the campus. Dressen. be any different?" Commenting that there is only chairman of the Management The applicant then meets with Prof Bella said the teachers Election Commissioner Katie one ticket running for office, the Department. the various deans and department should be sensitive to the student's Kearney stated that the reason legislative commissioner stated, For the past five years, the chairmen. Later, he balks to a needs and therefore the student candidates must run on a ticket is "I didn't expect any other tickets. department has had the policy of small group of students about five should have some input in the that "these three must be able to So very few people bothered to get allowing students to talk to who evaluate the person on how he decision. The Comittee on Ap-work together." involved during the rest of the pointments looks mainly at the "The candidates, to be student year, that I didn't expect themlan Sltuatlonqualifications of the candidates government officers, must know tocrawloutofthewoodworkatthis


CaDlb0d 
and the research abilities and thus one another, trust one another, and point, at the end of their junior
•b d • 
overlook whether the person would be able to count on each other to do year." meetthestudentsneeds. their own jobs," explained Garrettalsosaidthatshedidnot
descrl e as grlDl 
The committee has already Garrett. receive any other opposition to the provided, the government of interviewed three professorial However, the student stated that requirement that candidates runonlh NICHOLAS DANILOFF 
President Lon Nol perhaps candidates, Bella noted. "the College is small enough so a ticket. WASHINGTON <UPil -De­could survive through the start Similar procedures exist in the ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••..••..•••••••••••~• fense Secretary James Schles­of the rainy season, about mid-othDerr. dBeepranratrmdemlsb.ride, chairman •.• THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION:. 
inger said Tuesday the military June, and that there was "a 
situation in beleaguered Cam­reasonable hope" that the of the Finance Department, : PROUDLY PRESENTS : 
insurgents might choose to join stressed the requirement that the • •
bodia is grim. but hope still pxists and "the fall of Phnom in a ·negotiated settlement. candidate have his PhD before he : 


suNsH NE : 
Asked to assess the current is accepted by the University for • •Penh is not imminent." 
conditions, Schlesinger told employment. Otherwise, he will : :
Talking with reporters after 
1

reporters, "the situation contin-spend most of his tiine working on • • Schlesinger said the adminis­ues to be grim but not his dissertation and thus neglect : A TRIP TO FREEPORT :meeting with President Ford, hopeless." the dutues as a teacher. • •
tration still hopes Congress will approve $222 million in emer­Although presidential press Dr. Ray Powell, accounting : IN THE BAHAMAS : gency military aid for Cam­
secretary Ron Nessen had said chairman, also emphasized the • • bodia despite widespread earlier in the day that the need for the selection of a faculty : DAYS & NIGHTS :
latest cables from Cambodia member with his doctorate. The • • Schlesinger's remarks came opposition on Capitol Hill. 
suggested that the insurgent fact that students pay so much to : 8 7 : forces might be experiencing come here dictates their desire for • •shortly after he met with the 
SPnate Republican Policy Com­problems of manpower and the best qualified people, he : F0 R 0 N l Y : mittee. Sen. John Tower said supply, Schlesinger said the said. : $ 00 : he got the impression from that 
insurgents "are in far better Presently the College of • • shape now than they were a Business Administration consists : 249 :session the fall of Cambodian year ago." of almost 1500 undergraduates of • •government was "imminent" 
possibly within days. He said "their morale seems which almost half are majoring in : 1NCLUDES: : Tower said it was "a general 
to be higher" and their supply accounting, approximately 400 in • • sense of the members" that the situation is far better than it finance and the rest divided bet-: ROUND TRIP AIR FARE VIA DC-9 : Cambodian situation proba­
"is was a year ago." ween..marketing and management. • * • bly not salvageable," and he 
: FROM SOUTH BEND :
said "I personally don't see how they can hold out." 
: * MEALS AND LIQUOR IN-FliGHT :
Without the additional fun­ding. Schlesinger said, Cam­
:-* ACCOMODA TIONS AT THE : 
bodian forces would run out of 
• •ammunition and the capital of : CASTAWAYS : Phnom Penh probably would • •• fall into the hands of Commu­: * CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST DAILY : 
nist support insurgents "within 
a matter of weeks." : * FULL DINNER DAILY : But he said that if the aid is • •
; * U.S. DEPARTURE TAX : 

EMERY AIR 
i OPTIONS: :

FREIGHT 
i SAILING, TENNIS, GOLF, SCUBA i 
BEAT THE END OF 
: DIVING, DEEP-SEA FISHING, : 
THE SEMESTER RUSH 
: SCOOTER RENTALS, SNORKELING : 
•

1. Pick up at your 
• 

dorm 
: $50 DEPOSIT REQUIRED i 
2. Deliver at your 
i SIGN UP NOW i
•
home 
• 

:BROCHURES AND INFO AVAILABLE AT :
-anywhere in 
:STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE (2nd :
the free world 
iFioor LaFortune) OR CALL 283-3031 i 

FOR DETAILS 
: PLUS TAX AND GRATUITIES/PRICE :, : IS PRO-RATA CHARTER PRICE :

CALL: 233-3127 
: OPEN TO NO t'"QAAAAIINITV : 
-" -..
······························~~-~4·~········· 

Today and tomorrow, you will be asked by the Notre Dame Hunger Coalition to make a sacrifice during the rest of the semester that could possibly affect the lives of many people whom you'll never see. Specifically, you are asked to reduce your meat consumption so that others may eat someday. This request is based on A) ther­modynamic laws, B > ecological considerations, and C> basic economics. 
A l Thermodynamic laws demonstrate the importance of lowering meat consumption. The First Law of Thermodynamics states that energy can not be l'reatPd nor destroyed. The Second Law of Thermodynamics states that whenever energy is tran­sferred from one form to another in a system. there is always a loss of usable energy. Applying these laws to food production, it is found that usnble energy is lost as one ascends the trophic levels, thus the biomass of plants is necessarily greater than that of herbivores, which in turn is greater than that of carnivores. 
According to the St. Joe County Cooperative Extension Service, the unit conversion factors for grain needed to produce beef is 8 to 
1. pork is 4 to 1, and poultry is 21~ to 
1. Lester Brown stated "by 1974, at least one-third of the grains pr;lduced in the world-over 400 million tons-were fed to livestock," with over 78 per cent of all U.S. unexported grain ending up in animals stomachs <UNICEF>. As was mentioned on "60 Minutes", if all U.S. grain-fed livestock were taken off grain for just two weeks, enough grain would be freed to feed all the world's hungry people. 
It is important to note that although the nutrition value of one pound of grain is not equivalent to that of one pound of meat, the National Academy of Sciences stated that "a vegetarian can be well nourished if he eats a variety of plant foods and gives attention to. . .critical nutrients." Fur­thermore, the American Heart Association is now recommending that Americans reduce their meat consumption by one-third. 
Therefore, if man reduced his meat consumption, more grain would be made available for human consumption in a world where because of grain inputs for livestock "the average North American requires roughly five 
WORLD 



CAMPUS AFLOAT 

times the agriculture resources tilizer and livestock waste runoffs needed by an Indian, a Columbian, cause the eutrophication of fresh or a Nigerian. water that kills fish, thus this 
B l There are also ecological process is greatly intensified in reasons for lowering meat con-meat production. sumption. Applying the laws of Furthermore, the Institute of thermodynamics to the following Ecology stated in 1971 that "known geophysical considerations,' potential supplies of phosphorus.. namely, the earth's surface is . will be exhausted by the end of the fixed in area, and the rate at which 21st century <at current rates). solar energy (essential in Without phosphate fertilizer, the photosynthesis) strikes the earth's planet can support between one surface is constant; it is found that· and two billion people." there is an ultimate rate at which Lastly, increased food plant food can be produced production can involve the break­regardless of the technology down of eco-systems through employed. desertification and flooding due to 
Biogeochemical cycles are also deforestation and erosion; en­important in considering food vironmentally induced diseases production. Water <hydrological due to water systems; endanpered cycle l is an essential input and its species due to increased pesticide runoff rate is limited. In 1963, the use; and inadvertent climate Hesources in America's Future modification due to particulate study estimated for 1980 the U.S. matter discharged into the at­flow requirement to be 332 billion mosphere. Therefore, if man gallons of water daily with the reduced his meat consumption, median projection for depletion to there would be less demand on the by 178 bdg. According to Paul limited renewable rate and finite Erhlich, it takes 60 gallons of water reserves of resources, as well as, to produce a pound of dry wheat less environmental deterioration. compared to at least 2,500 gallons C There are also economic reasons for a pound of meat. for lowering meat consumption. 
Fossil fuels <carbon cycle) are As demonstrated above, meat an essential input in modern production requires far greater agriculture. As David Pimental amounts of scarce resource inputs states "If all the world were to than does grain production; adopt the protein-rich U.S. diet and therefore, meat decreases tht­food producing system, and if supply of grain for man. Fur­petroleum were the sole source of thermore, as explained above, the energy for agriculture, all known demand for grain increases in reserves of petroleum would be affluent societies if the individuals exhausted within a mere twenty-consume meat instead of grain nine years." Fertilizers <nitrogen directly. It is important to note and phosphorus cycles) are also that when the supply decreases or inputs. However, chemical fer-the demand increases, with all 
A.C.C. ICE RINK PRO-SHOP 
END OF THE SEASON CLEARANCE SALE 
-all hockey & figure skating equipment at discount prices 
-LIMITED STOCK! 
TAKE ADVANTA-GE NOW 
HRS: NOON-10 p.m. DAILY 8 a.m.-1 0 p.m. SAT. & Sun. 
other things being equal, the price will increase, and this is morally undesirable since the poor can not afford the food they need. 
In conclusion, it is granted that just because we lower our con­sumption of meat it does not necessarily mean that the poor will have more grain to eat. But it is important to note that grain cannot be distributed to the poor if it is not first made available. Please make some grain available by lowering your meat consumption. 

NOW APPEARING 
SKIP VAN WINKLE 
AND LISTEN 
~SLJ~~
NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS on U.S. 31 Mtween IIits. So. B1111d-Fr11 Parkin&-68~350 

MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES 
* 
2 FILMS 
BOOKSTORE 
* 
LIVE FLOOR SHOW 
131 6 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET CAll 282-1 206 FOR INFORMATION 
Sail either in September or February, with the ship 

PRE-CANA PROGRAM as your classroom and the world your campus ... com­
for engaged couples
bine accredited study with fascinating visits to the fa· bled ports of the Caribbean, 

April 6, 13, and 20th (Sun. Ev.)Africa, the Mediterranean, and the Americas. Over 10,· 
Limited to Notre Dame students 
000 undergraduates from 450 colleges have already 
and their partners
sailed with WCA -join them! Financial aid avail· 

Sign' up now in Campus Ministry Off.
able. Write today for free catalog. 

Deadline: March 19th
WCA, Chapman College Box F, Orange, CA 92666 

S onsored Cam us Minist 
--~---------­
Wednesday, March 12, 1975 the observer 
5 

"live as children of light... " 
a homily by joseph w. evans 
Editor's Note: The following is the text of a his intellect is a genuine faculty of the real; as the human will--has suffered the wounds more deeply into them', to be 'celebrating' homily given at evensong on Laetare it can and does see. The 'darkness' that St. of Original Sin. A new 'darkness' has them, to be 'hurrahing about them '(to be--if Sunday in Sacred Heart Church by Dr. Paul refers to in his words "There was a entered the picture for it and for man--a new you will allow me a preference in hurrahing­Joseph W. Evans. Dr. Evans has kindly time when you were darkness ... " is cer­infirmity, a new ignorance, a new daze and -'Gerard Manley Hopkins' hurrahing about consented to allow the Observer to print his tainly not to be understood as a total eclipse, stupor have wormed their way into the them), to be 'caring about' them and 'caring homily. or as a sheer and total night. St. Paul intellect and into man. for' them. We must first be living them on himself writes in Romans I, 19-20: But Christ has come, Christ has died, the level of the immanent acts of knowing .. "There was a time when you were " ... whatever can be known about God is Christ will come again. He did not come to and loving. Our own being, our own 'interior darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. clear to them; he himself made it so. Since activate and fulfill the human intellect's universe' must be qualitatively enriched Wf,ll, then, live as children of light. Light the creation of the world, invisible realities, elan to know the structures and secrets of and superelevated by them, must be lit and produces every kind of goodness and justice God's eternal power and divinity, have the natural real. No, he came to redeem lit up by them--must be on fire with them. and truth ... " <Ephes. V, 8-9) become visible, recognized through the man--the human person--to bring him the Now, I think that this first level of the things he has made." good news of salvation--to bring him to good meaning of St. Pau.'s exhortation also in­Christ is the Light of the world. Christ is But the 'natural light' of the human in­truths of eternal life and of a Beatific Vision cludes the point that if the Christian is thus the Way, the Truth, and the Life. Christ is tellect has a difficult time knowing the real and of a Beatific Communion. He in-living these Christian truths and Christian the Word Incarnate. Christians believe this, supra-real things, they spill over and Christians cling to this, Christians rejoice in quicken the natural energies of man (I am this. · thinking first of the natural energies of Man needs light <need I say that in saying man's intellect and will), they activate and 'man' I mean man and woman. As Hilaire stimulate them, 'help them to be and help Belloc once put it--and I am indebted to a them to act', help them to attain better their woman, Barbara Anthony, for this quote-­natural ends and natural fruitions. As ''Man embraces woman ... "), man needs Jacques Maritain has put it: "A superior light. man needs the word & truth, man agent is not confined or shut up within itself. needs the way & example. Man is, to be It radiates. It stimulates the inner forces 
sure, a many-splendored being--he has all and energies of other agents--even 
the grandeur that Pascal spoke of, and autonomous in their own peculiar spheres-­
·-<­
much more than Pascal spoke of. But he whose place is less high in the scale of being. also has all the misery that Pascal spoke of, Superiority implies a penetrating and ahd much more than Pascal spoke of. Man 
vivifying influence." is an indigent being--from his very first St, Paul's exhortation also means and breath to his very last breath. He is 
entails that we are to live as children of essentially viator, a wayfarer, a being in light, as children of the light of Christ, on the movement--he must become what he is, he in a formal and reflexive--firm, solid and troduced man to a whole new expanse of the level of our external actions. Light radiates, must become who he is. He must bloom, stable--manner . For one thing, the real-­supra-real--a whole new or<ler of that which being radiates. As St. Thomas Aquinas put 'epanouir', expand, win his being, win his any 'little bit of the real at all', and is, and a whole new order of that which is to it, agere sequitur esse--action follows being, freedom--his freedom of expansion and of therefore, all the more so, the whole ex­be done. action is an epiphany of being--as a being is, autonomy and of independence. He must panse of the real--is an 'intelligible St. Paul exhorts the Ephesians--he exhorts so it acts. As Romano Guardini once put it: become what he is and who he is as regards mystery', as Maritain has put it; it is in­us--to live as children of light,--to live as "You ought to be able to tell a Christian by 
his possibilities for temporal and terrestrial telligible--i.e., capable of beiing intellected, children of the light of Christ. What does the way he 1climbs up a tree." existence, and he must become what and capable of being known by the intellect; but this mean, what does it entail? It means, it St. Matthew <V,14-16) expresses the same who he is as regards his possibilities for it is an intelligible mystery--i.e., entails--! think-a lot of things. It means thought very simply and very beautifully: supratemporaal and supraterrestrial inexhaustible in its very intelligibility, first--it entails first--<and I would like to "You are the light of the world. A city set on 
existence. 
knowability, meaning, and content. For stress this--I would want lo stress it at any a hill cannot be hidden. Men do not light a 
Truth is at the very core of man's being another thing, the human intellect is a time, but I think it needs stressing in our lamp and then put it under a bushel basket. and of man's movement. Man is called first ml'nidcant intellect--it is an intellect that is times, and I am particularly happy to be They set it on a stand where it gives light to to see the truth of real things, and to tied to the senses and that is dependent on able to stress it here in Our Lady's Chapel all in the house. In the same way, your light 'delight' in and to 'celebrate' and to 'care the ministrations of the senses, and it is on Laetare Sunday)--it means and entails must shine before men so that they may see about' and to 'care for' the truth of real subject to the law of abstraction and to the' that we are called to be seeing and goodness in your acts and give praise to things; and then man is called to live the law of slow, progressive and constantly 'looking at' the truth of these supra-real your heavenly Father." 
truth {lf thesP real things. _ thwarted movement. things, to be pondering them and re­Let us rejoice in the light of Christ, let us Man has the 'natural light' of his intellect, Furthermore, the human intellect--as well pondering them, to be 'striving to enter ever act in the light of Christ. 
a woman for all seasons 
by elena malits 
Ten children and thirty books! Raising a probing inquiry into the processes of per­mirable book, an existential theology of love supported by a willingness to work." 
large family or writing so prolifically is sonal and communal growth. and encounter, a fundamental statement Here's an exceptionally gifted human remarkable. but to do both boggles the Hosemary Haughton will be discussing and witness to the salvation event in daily being: insightful, provocative, brave imaginatio11. Ours,. that is, not Rosemary these many things during her visit to Saint life and in areas where, to an exclusively resourceful. Though the comparison would Haughton's. Not only can she imagine such Mary's and Notre Dame, March 13-16. clerical theology, it was not previously embarrass her,like her compatriot and hero a life--she actually lives it. For the past Some sessions will take the form of casual visible. ...Some of the more interesting Thomas More, Rosemary Haughton might 
year. moreover, she and her family live dialogues with students and faculty; others theological insights today are coming from well be called "a <wo >man for all seasons." their busy, creative life in a remote spot in will be more structured presentations. Ms. women and mothers." Reading some of her Come meet her and find your own way to Scotland where they have established with Haughton is certainly at home in speaking, other books like The Mystery of Sexuality characterize the person. some other people a "sharing community" as she is in writing. She lectures frequently (1972) or The Theology of Marriage 0972), which offers its members new social, both in England and America, conducts certainly validates Merton's judgment.t>ducational. artistic alternatives. Out of workshops for many different groups, and Not the least fascinating aspect of prayerthis rich experience as wife, mother, author, often appears on the BBC. Most notably, Hosemary Haughton's life and work is her theologian. educator, explorer of social she has produced thirty books in fifteen involvement in "Lothlorien," the com­patterns, Ms. Haughton addresses persons years, mainly in the area of theology and munity farm which her family recently of a searching for meaning in their lives. She religious education, but also including started. <The name is from Tolkien's Lord shares what she herself has literature. psychology, and even politics. of the Rings, where it is used for the homosexual
C.:iscovered about the Christian message and Ms. Haughton's best known and most woodland kingdom of the elves.) She and how it may be understood and articulated highly acclaimed books are On Trying to Be her husband decided to make a complete Editor's Note: In seeking contributions forin contemporary terms. Having gleaned Human (1966), The Transformation of Man: break with a way of life which includes the revival of the Notre Dame Prayerbook, her insights from diverse sources, she a Study of Conversion and Community financial security and the comforts of a l'ditors Bill Storey and Tom McNallycommunicates them in various idioms: (1967), and The Theology of Experience consumer society. The Haughtons were received the following prayer. Obviously,stories, parables, fairy tales, fantasy (1972). A recent one, The Liberated Heart joined by their married children, four this prayer is controversial. As such it hasliterature, transactional analysis, cultural (1974), uses the tools of transactional grandchildren, and an assortment of not been accepted for publication. However 
commentary. Above all, she reflects analysis to examine religious development. The dream of a self-supporting,
on friends. thl' editors of the Notre Dame Prayerbook
human experience through sustanined. Her latest book, Tales from Eternity: the communal farm is just getting off the felt it to be of sufficient merit to be airred inWodd of Fairy tales and the Spiritual ground. 
a public forum such as the Observer,Sl'arch <1975 >, deals with a perennial un­The land is beautiful but rough; conditions l'specially in light of the Observer's recentderground gospel ethic that disrupts the are primitive; it takes much determiniation series on the plight of homosexuals at Notre
conscious principles which structure human and hard work to make a go of it. Why Responses this are
Dame. to prayersocieties. engage in such a difficult and demanding solicited and may be forwarded to the
Half English and half American, enterprise? "over the years, as a family," 
ObserverRosemary was born in 1927, the daughter of says Rosemary, "we became less and less 
novelist Sylvia Thompson. Her early happy with the educational system and the My Lord and Brother, schooling in England was varied and in­way children were being processed for I am going to accept my own personal terrupted with journeys to France, Italy, society without anyone asking the larger sexual orientation. and the USA. She left school at fifteen to questions like 'What kind of people are we This is the way I am--so be it! study art in Canada, and following further being turned into by this system?' and As a member of a despised monority studies in London and Paris, married 'What are we being educated for?' " The I am tempted to despise and deny myself. Algernon Haughton in 1948. Somehow in the Haughtons want to be able to raise and Help me to think as positively as possible midst of having ten babies, in the late 1950's answer such questions for themselves, and about myself she began writing and illustrating books for for the "extended family" which gathers And about my future as a sexual being. children and families. From the start of her around them to share a searching, ad­In a mainly heterosexual world I will often writipg career, Rosemary Haughton was venturesome,creatively joyful life. ·The be lonely and out of it. concerned to find ways of saying things that name may sound romantic, but the en­Don't let me accept isolation and defeat were not abstract, but linked to experience. deavor requires much more than romantic but teach me to look for friendship and 
-
Hesponding to requests to extend the scope enthusiasm. Rosemary Haughton knows support of her work, she moved into theology, in­what the project will cost--and thinks it is where and when I need it. terested to discover and display its worth it. "It means work to produce food Your love is unfailing; relationship to the range of human ex­and housing; it means a chance to live a be my Teacher and Guide as I search for perience. Rosemary Haughton's tough and exhilarating life, a chance to give love theological work has drawn praise from the children some experience of a kind of and for appropriate expressions of my own critics. education that is something more than a sexuality. 
Reviewing The Transformation of Man, processing for pre-cast modlsin a consumer You alone, Lord Jesus, Thomas Merton wrote: "This is an ad-society ... lt is a venture of faith,"'but of faith are the Way, the Truth and the Life. 
man is called first to see the truth of real things, and to 'delight in' 
' 
and to 'celebrate'and to 'care about' and to'care for' the truth of real things; and then man is called to live the truth of these real things 


• .l>· 
6 the observer Wednesdav. March 12, 1975 
LaFortune renovation will be contpleted during spring break 
by John Kt>enward Starr Heporter 
Henovations on the first floor 
lounge  of  LaFortune  will  be  
completed  during Easter break,  
fourth-year  architecture  student  

Hon Blitch reported today. 
Blitch, who has drawn up most of the plans for the renovation, stood in the now bare room with the stripped floor and described a colorful, futuristic setting for the lounge. 

THE RENOVATION of La Fortune will be completed during the Easter break. (Photo by Paul Joyce). 
unified than what it was before," Blitch stated. By this, Blitch stated, he means that there will not be the clutter of lamps and dif­ferent pieces of furniture that the former scheme included. 
"New carpeting will be put in, in color," he stated. "Then all around the main room and TV room there will be curving, S­shaped rows of purple and orange­


,-------Another Continental Discount Fare:-------. 
STAND BY TO SAVE 

TO LOS ANGELES 
You come out ahead because we really move our tail. 
Believe it or not, our L.A. Standby Discount Fare on selected flights is only $104. And we have Standby Discount service to Denver for $60, saving you $25 off Coach fare. 
Then there's Night Coach Discount to Los Angeles for $116. or $30 less than Coach. 
We're also the only airline with Economy Discount service 
throughout our route system-another way·to save, just for 
skipping a meal. Some sample fares: 
LOS ANGELES DENVER OR 
COLORADO SPRINGS ALBUQUERQUE KANSAS CITY SAN FRANCISCO, 
PORTLAND OR SEATTLE 
Remember too, atravel agent costs you nothing extra, so call one for the good word on all our Discount Fares. Or call us at 686-6500. At spring break or any time, we can probably get you where you live, for less. 
All fares are one WdY and include tax; airport security surchMge extra. 
We really move our tail for you. 

CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 
The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. 
red chairs of foam material for­ming conversation areas." 
Small low tables will be set up around the conversation areas with built-in ashtrays, Blitch said. "There will also be about fifteen potted trees, five to six feet tall situated in the lounge," he con­tinued. 
The lighting scheme of the room will remain unchanged except for the installation of deep banners on the ceiling lights which are in­tended to cut glare. 
Commenting about the TV room, Blitch stated, "It will become an extension of the main lounge. The TV set will be moved either out in the main room, where one would not need a key to get in and watch it, or inside the adjacent theatre." 
The blocked-up doorways in the 
Marantz -Sony 
Harmon/Kardon-Pioneer -Crown 
at 

THE STEREO SCENE 
Wholesale Prices on HiFi Equipment & Accessories Fast Dependable Service! ! 
<t'Ht'JII I'air trarlt• itt>ms) 
287-1400 ASK ABOUT MAXELL 
:::w~ :\IISIL\. ,\\'E., 1 1 1\JILE PAST HIVER PAHK TIIEATEH 
northeastern corner of the lounge and the new entrance to the Tom Dooley room were elaborated upon by Blitch. 
"The old hallway leading to the Huddle will be turned into storage space while a new entrance will be made through the wall of the Tom Dooley room where the trophy case now stands," Blitch noted 
Director of Student Activities, Fr. Dave Schlaver, regarding the trophies in the case added "We don't know just yet where to move them. We will have to find a place for them of some permanence." 
Schlaver also said that the in­formation desk that formerly sat in the middle of the lounge would be moved into the new passageway that would be formed out of the Tom Dooley room. 

$131  SAVE $15  
$ 75  SAVE $10  
$  ~~  SAVE ~IU  
$ 41  SAVE$ 4  
$131  SAVE $15  

TAX ASSISTANCE PROGRAM 
for free help with your 
TAX RETURNS, stop by the Student Government Offices (2nd floor La Fortune) MONDAYS 1:30-4:30 THURSDAYS 2:30-4:30 
'' JAZZ AT 
THE 
NAZZ II 
Tonight with 
Erg's Finger Circus 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT PRODUCTION 
-

Wednesday, March 12, 1975 the observer 
7 
To solicit dining hall pledges . 
Hunger Coalition begins drive 
by Shawn Scannell Starr Reporter 

The Notre Dame Hunger Coalition is starting a pledge drive today with hopes of eliciting pledges for fasting and meatless meals from the students. 
At both dining halls on Wed­nesday and Thursday evening at dinner, pledge sheets will be given out on arrival. The students are 
Washington Post 
columnist to give lecture tonight 
Nicholas von Hoffman, columnist for The Washington Post 
and author of several books will speak Wednesday, March 13 in Washington Hall at 8 p.m. 
Before working for The \\'ashington Post , von Hoffman was associate director of Industrial Areas Foundation in Chicago, and he was a member of the staff of the Chicago Daily ~l'ws. He is the author of the books 1\lississippi :'l:otebook, Multiver­sit~·. \\'e ,\n• The People Our Part>nts \\'antl'd t's Against, Left 
\t Tht> Post and Firesidl' \\att>rgate.. 
the observer 

Night Editor: Rick Blower 
Assistant Night Editor: Maggie Waltman Layout Staff: Michael Chanatry Day Editor: Don Reimer Copy Reader: Ken Bradford Features: Contemptus Ob­
serverurn Sports: Bob Kissel, Greg Corgan Typists: Tom Modglin, Barb 
Norcross, Jim Landis Compugraphic: Rick Huber Night Controller: M.J. Foley, 
Howard Halle 
Picture Screener: Albert D'An­tonio Ad Layout: Bob Tracey 
campus view 

asked to read the sheet, fill it out as to their intent, and hand it in on their way out. ~ 
The pledge will consist oftwo parts, either of which, or both, can be opted for. First, a pledge of meatless dinner on Tuesday and Fridays; and-or secondly, a pledge of fasting from dinner on Wed­nesdays. 
For each student pledging the second alternative, the dining hall will give 50 cents to the Hunger Coalition. Of the toal amount collected as a result of this pledge, three-fourths will go to CORR <Christian Organization for Relief and Rehabilitation) and one-fourth will go to the Justice and Pace Center in South Bend, run by Holy Cross Fathers, to aid some of the poor in the South Bend area. 
The pledges should be honored until the beginning of finals week in April. 
The Coalition's hope is to cut 
back on meat consumption which 
A NEW APARTMENT COM­

MUNITY DEVELOPED FOR THE STUDENTS OF NOTRE DAME & SAINI' MARY'S. CAMPUS VIEW IS SET IN A WOODED 
SURROUNDING YET IS ONLY 3 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME. LOCATED JUST ONE BLOCK NORTH OF STATE RD. 23 OFF OF WILLIS'RD. 
in turn will cut down on grain used to feed cattle, thus freeing the grain to help alleviate part of the world's hunger problem. More information on this aspect can be found in AI Sondej's column in today's Observer. 
Doug Allen, student organizer of the pledge drive, hopes pledgers will. be conscientious about it and not just run off to McDonald's on Wednesdays. "The gesture in­volvedwithpledgingismeanttobe a 'learning experience' as well, to give someone an idea of what hunger is like," Allen said. 
The Coalition wants it known that they have researched this drive very carefully and are sure .---------·------­
THINK CO.LEGE LIFE 
INSURANCE CO. OF AMERICA 

TUESDAY~ MARCH 18 
7:30 PM 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
,,:,=<,= 

CAMPUS 
VIEW 0\IE and TWO BB)ROOM RJRNISHED APARTMENTS 
ic  COMMUNITY BUILDING  
ic  INDOOR SWIMMING POOL  
ic  BASKETBALL COURT  
ic  ·SHAG CARPET  
ic  2 BATHS IN 2 BEDROOM APT  
ic  ALL APPLIANCES COLOR  
COORDINATED  
ic  SECURITY  
ic  SOUND CONDITIONED  
ic  PRIVACY  
~  

NOW RENTING FOR FALL SEMESTER ( '75 -'76 SCHOOL YEAR ) . 
FOR RENTAL INFORMATION PHONE 272-1441 
that the 50 cents per person is not a rip-off by the dining hall. As it is, the dining hall is losing money due to inflation, and operating costs remain high when even a good number of students don't attend the mals. St~dents also tend to eat more heavily at the meals preceding and following the meal which is skipped. 
It should be noted that the dining halls are giving the Coalition a fair deal in the matter. According to Bro. Kieran Ryan, vice-president for business affairs, "The dining halls can donate more thap 50 cents per student if a large number of students pledge." The greater the response, the greater the amount which can be donated above 50 cents." 
In a similar effort to alleviate the hunger problem in the world, faculty, administrators, and staff members have already con­tributed over $13,000 to the Notre Dame Third World Relief Fund through payroll deduction. The Coalition hopes the students' response will be as generous in this drive in terms of pledged fasting and meatless meals. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Ride Wanted: we gotta git outa dis place. Anybody going to or thru Fort Lauderdale and has room tor 2 more sun bunnies call Candy, 6922, or Laura. 6927. 
I need a ride to Waterbury, Conn. tor break. Call Ellen, 232-4069. 
I need a ride to (or through) Philadelphia tor spring break. Please call Maggie, 232-4069. 
Need ride to Madison, Wise., this Friday about noon. Call 3384. 
3 women need ride to Arizona for spring break. Call 1272 or 1260. 
Wanted: 3 people need ride to Cleveland on Friday, March 14. Call 3648 or 4626. 
Two of us in desperate need of ride to Phila.-Trenton area tor Easter break. Call Mel, 3457. 
Housemate wanted: 4 room house with basement, backyard, garage. Very nice rooms. Excellent neigh­borhood. Call Jeff at 283-7234 or 234­2931. 
Need ride home to Tulsa for N D b­ball game. Call John, 3471. (Do you need a place to stay?) 
Desperately need ride to DC area for Spring Break. Share expense. Please call 4872. 
Need ride tor two at break to and from Ft. Lauderdale. Call John, 1067. 
Please! Need ride to DC tor spring break. Can leave any time. Share $. Call MarL 234-6699. 
HELP! Temporary (1 year) home sought for 1or 2 cats. We'll pay food and vet costs. We don't want to put them to sleep. Please call Steve, 232­9428. 
Need riders to Pittsburgh this weekend. Leave Friday afternoon, return Sunday. Call Kevin, 8867. 
3 hitch-hiking to Florida March 21. Need one more to travel in pairs. Tom, 8796. 
FOR SALE 

For sale cheap! Refrigerator, oven, storage cabinet, small tables, 2 living room chairs, small desk. All in excellent condition. Call Steve, 232­9428. 
SR-10 Texas Instruments calculator, like new -$60. Call Steve, 8570. 
Olympic 8-track player recorder with AM-FM stereo. Includes 2 air­suspension speakers. Call 255-5848. 
Sale! 2 rectilinear xa speakers, orig. $400, now $225 for the pair. Call Tom Cordell at WNDU, 233-7111. 
1974 Camaro. auto, power, AC, AM­FM, custom interior. 232-8600. 
1 Miracord 750 with V-15 II. Pair Southwest Technical U.T. power amps, 75 watts each, (R.M.S.). Call 277-0085 after 7 pm. 
1 Pioneer receiver and 2 Electro Voice speakers. Call 1759 270 Dillon. 
NOTICES 

Western Electronic 24 hour TV service. 1530 Western Ave., 282-1955. 
Cleveland Club spring bus leaves March 21 at 1:00 pm. Into . 5714. 
Typing -experienced in term papers and dissertations. Reasonable, accurate. 232-5715. 
Married couple needed for live-in houseparents for foster home. Salary. Write: P.E.P., Inc., 3012 S. Twyckenham, South Bend, Ind. 46614. 
Juggler manuscripts may be picked up on Thurs. between 9 and 12 a.m. Art may be picked up 424 Cavanaugh anytime. 
NCAA 8-BALL PEP RALLY, THURS-STEPAN-6:45. LET'S DO IT TOGETHER! 
Pie Face Unlimited. We will hit ar;y student on campus. Guaranteeu. Low rates. Send name and phone and victims name and we will contact you. Joe Doe, 400 Pangborn. 
Friday is the last day for balance on Daytona trip. Still some places left. For info, call Rich at 277-0124 or 283­
8656. 
Men and women with two years of college left: want to invest six weeks this summer and assure yourself a second career as an Army Officer upon graduation? Earn ap­proximately $500.00 this summer and gain self-confidence! No obligation. For information contact CPT Weimer at 283-6265 about Army ROTC Basic Camp. 
Auditions Gilbert and Sullivan's Gondoliers production, May 4, Lake Marion, SMC, Moreau Hall 114. Wed., March 12, 5:30pm. Men and women's roles. 
Can an insane whore get it on with a homosexual composer? Find out by seeing "The Music Lovers" starring Richard Chamberlain and Glenda Jackson. Music by the London Sumphonic Orchestra. Sunday, March 16, Engineering Auditorium. 7, 9, 11 pm, $1.00. 
FOR RENT 
Four student houses available Sept. '75. Groups of 3, 4, and 5. Call 287­7818 mornings before 9:30 or evenings. 
2 five-bedroom houses tor rent tor next school year. Excellent con­dition, furnished within v, mile of campus. Call 233-2613. 
Furnished houses available now tor summer and fall rental. Phone 289­2602 or 234-9364. 
For rent: small completely ap­pointed furnished apartment; air cond., shower, tub. Well suited for one graduate student. Has been so occupied tor the last 10 years; $60.00 per month, utilities paid. Call 232­5337 or 234-8789 tor appointment. Will be vacant April 1. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: ladies' wristwatch with narrow silver band. Reward. 8135. 
Lost: blue coil ND notebook with psych notes and research paper inside. Needed desperately. Call 277­0057. 
Lost: silver cross at ACC Monday night, Fisher-Holy Cross hockey game. Reward. 3010 evenings. 
PERSONALS 
GREAT SCOTT' COME TO 
LOUIE'S JUMBO BEER SPECIAL MONDAY THRU THURSDAY, 5 
PM TO 9 PM! 
The 20th year starts today. Call and wish STECK a Happy Birthday. The Dillon Deviate .(also g. g. & j.) 
In BP there's a girl named Jan, Who works very hard in the band She plays the French horn, ' And beer she does scorn, Of wh tskey sours instead she's a 
fan! Happy 19th, Trish, Patty, and Bonnie 
There were two girls that smiled, They faced the world undefiled, Til one day at noon, They changed oh-so-soon, And are still laughing at their hilarious guile. 
Knit-Wit 
Happy 19th jailbird. nhoi 
... 
Sorin Whethermen Unite: Alarms, smoke, hoses, pillows, toothpaste, telephones. The Revolution will not be televised. 
Students tor Democratic Sorin The Underground 

-
,_ 
• 

Mike McCoy:tackling nowlor FCA ~~~rw~dy~~~:~~Yf~:~~?ked~1~~ 
Wednesday, March 12, 1975
8 the observer 

Bengal's boxers set for Thursday finals action 
C 
b~ Gr;gE;.rgan 
• por 5 ' •tor 
In boxing the heavyweig~ts usually get most of the att~n~10n and practically all of the pubhc•ty · But in last night's semifinal round of the Bengal. Bouts there was action and excitement all the way down the line. 
And true to form the 190 pound bouts between Mike McGuire and Hon Buttarazzi and R~dy Ru.et­tiger and Tom Bake. d1d prov1de the :\500 plus crowd wtth two hard-hitting heavyweight finales. McGuire, a senior, was the Bengal Ho11t's 190 pound division cha~­pion in 1973 and runnerup to Cecil Boot iast ytear. McGuire de.feated Buttarazzi on a unammous decision. 
"I didn't expect him to come storming out like that," said 1\leGuire after the fight. I've sparred with Ron before and he approached then rather 

-
t·autiously. The first 30 seconds of the fight was a slug fest." McGuire landed most of the 
punches. however. in wha~ became a more closely contested ftght tha~ originally expected. Buttarazz1 made a second round comeback 
by Ernie Torriero 
Someone once asked a famous 
football defensive star, .why he 
never came back to h1s al~a 
mater, Notre Dame. He rephed 
quite bluntly, "Notre Dame was 
simply a means to end. It got me 
where I wanted to be." 
Such was the case for Mike 
McCoy, the 6-4, 285 pound defen­
sive lineman for the Green BayPackers. But unlike others now playing in the NFL, Mike isnever 
hesitant about coming back to 
DuLac. During the off-season, he 
sometimes makes four or five 
appearances to h_is o.Id stomping 
grounds thus nvahng Father 
Hesburgh for prime campus time: 
"It's really exciting to come 
back to Notre Dame," says the 
former Irish A_li-America st~n­
dout. "It sent a tmgle up my spme to walk around her again. But you guys have it better than I did. 
There are girls here now," 
McCoy, in town to address the 
Fellowhip of Christian Athletes, is 
very active in the organization. 
Presently he is touring the country 
emphasizing "The campus and 
world-wide scope" of the Christian 
Athlete group. 
"When I left Notre Dame there was still a void in my life," begins McCoy in telling of how he became active in Christianity. "Then I came to Green Bay in 1969. There were these two guys, Bart Starr and Carroll Dale, who called themselves Christians. There was something uniquely different in both of them. Their quality. of life radiated. I suddenly saw some hope for me. I began attending the fellowship meetings. Then one day, I asked Christ to enter my life. 
Now I've dedicated my all to 
Christ." 
At first glance, the paradox of 
being a Christian and a participant 
m the "game of violence" seems 
uneven. It's like oil and water. 
The two just don't seem to blend. 
But McCoy is the first to refute 
that statement, pointing out, 
"Football is a game with rules and 
regulations. It you stay within that 
framework, you are not at all 
contradicting the Christian values. 
l'~veryone has a talent, whether he 
is a lawyer, doctor or anything 
else. Using that talent to its fulllest 
is part of glorifying God. Besides 
the off-season gives me a lot of 
time to spread the Gospel." 
But McCoy agrees that it is hard 
to be totally a self~onscious 
Christian on the playing field. "I 
sometimes swear," relates Mike. 
"But Christianity is not a per­
fection. The more that I grow in 
Christ, the more that I become 
:Jware of my actions." 
McCoy has had an up and down 
career at Green Bay, a town which 
possesses more critics than a and finished strong, but McGuire was in control all the way. He now moves into the finals where 

Thursday  night  he  will  face  
Ruettiger,  who  pretty  well  
clobbered Tom Bake.  

"I've sparred with all the 190 pounders and Rudy is the toughest," says McGuire. McGuire also appears to have a decisive reach advantage on the shorter Reuttiger. "Mike's going to be a challenge," offers Rudy. ''I'm going to have to compensate for his size advantage by slipping, bobbing, weaving and keeping my distance. I won't be able to mix 'em up like I did tonight." 
The 190 pound division actually turns out to be the heavyweight championship since Ken McAfee and Doug Becker, both freshman football players, were the only two 
entrants on the heavyweight card and Becker has since been sidelined with illness. 
In spite of the absence of heavyweight action, the 44th Annual Bengal Bouts will not be short of fist-flailing action by any means in the finals on Thursday night. 
In the 175 pound division, Lou Bulte will face Thad Naquin. Both 
theatre on opening night. Yet he difficult to make. "Many people credits Christ's influence in his life didn't understand the situation in for the good year that he had last Green Bay," Mike says of Devine. season. "I yielded my athletic life "It was tough on the pla_yers and to Christ last year," says Mike. "It coaches. But Dan ts mdeed a really made a difference. I was winner. He's a very, sincere, doing a better job." personable man. He has a 
Irish coach Dan Devine, tradition to follow and I wish him McCoy's former mentor at Green the best of luck." Bay, is quick to point out Mike's "Ara was a great blessing to my 
dedication on the athletic field. life," :elates McCoy of Par-r·.;,:ig;;h;,;;t.;o;,;;n;,;;e~t;,;;o~b;;;,e;..:;in;,;.;___________________, 
"There are different categories of seghian. "I'm very grateful to him Christianity," explains Devine. for the opportunity that he gave me "But some athletes, like Mike, at Notre Dame. But in comparing have those Judea-Christian him toDevine, everyone is an in­
principles which are excellent for dividual in his own way." 
training purposes." The g~ant defensive ~ineman is 
McCoy finds the comparisons not partial as to who IS the best between his two former coaches guard in the NFL. "Without a <Ara Parseghian and Dan Devine) doubt, it is Gale Gillingham,"
h 12 h 14 h • }}
1 .
flS t 1 AP 
Thf' Top TwPnty. with flrst-placP volfos ln parentheses. season records and total points. Points tabulatl'd on basil! or :ZO.IS.I&-14-1.2-III-II-!I-7~H-:J.2·1: 
1. Indiana (31) . . . :!&-0 740 2. UCLA. .. 23-3 803 !. Loulsvtllo! :14-2 573 4. Maryland .. 2'1~ 474 
5. MarquettP .. :!2·3 437 
e. Kentucky . . . . . 224 -124 
7. N Caronna ...21·1 282 
8. Artzolla St. . . . :!3-3 280 
i. N.C. Sl. . ..22-6 2541 10 Alabama ...22~ 2:!t 
11. Pfltn . . . :?:H 173 12. Notre Dame 11>-8 71. 
13. s. California . . ..18-7 72 
14. C~mson .......... ,...... 17·10 48 I5. Or?gon St . . . . .. . .. ..• . . 17·IO 39 rt. Rulgt'rs . . . . . . . . 22-8 33 
17. Te~as El· Puo . .. . . . 211-5 31 tie Cincinnati . .. . . . . 21-5 31 tie Cftltenaty .. . . ... 25-4 31 
28. Pan American .22·2 25 
UNIVERSITY OF PARIS-SORBONNE SUNY/New Paltz Philosophy Year Qualified undergraduates In philosophy and related majors can earn 32 credits; regular courses at Paris-Sorbonne. The SUNY Program Director will help students secure housing, arrange programs and assist them in studies throughout the year. September '15 to June 15. Estimated living expenses, transportation, tuition and fees: $3200 New York residents; $3700 out-of-state. DEADLINE: Aprill, 1975. For information, applications, write Professor Larry Holmes, Department of Philosophy, FT 1000, State University of New York, New Paltz, New York 12561. Tel. (914} 257-2692. 
t lD pO S UPI NEW i'ORK /UP!) -Till> tlnal Unit· fd Pmll lnlenl8tlonal Board or Coadl­u top 20 major coUege basketball teams ror 1174-~ wltb llrst place votes IIIII woo-lo6t records In parentheses: 
I. Indiana (35) ~ . . . . . . 350 !. UCLA ts-1 . . . 3011 1 LouJsviiJe 24-2 . . . . . 251 
4. 
Kentucky 22-4 . .. .. 205 

5. 
lfaryland 22-4 .. . . . 169 l Marquette 22·3... 1+1 


7. Arizona State 23-3 . . . . 133 
8. Alabama 22~ . . ...... 100 
I. Nortb Carolina State 22·6 . . . 78 
18. Nortb Carolina 21·7.... . 59 
u. Pt>rmsylvanla ~ . . . . . .. . . 38 1!. Soutlwnl Cal!S.7...... . 19 
13. Utab Stall' 21-5 . . . 12 14. Nevadi·Las Vegas 2H 8 
Notn Dame Is.% . . .. . 8 1l Crelgbton 2H . 7 I7. Arlmna 211-t . 6 
18. New llexleo State :!0-8 6 
II. Clemson 17·10 . . 4 21. Texas-EI Paso 20-3 3 
boxers were impressive last night in reaching the finals .brackett.. Bulte defeated John Thornton on a unanimous decision while Naquin scored a TKO on Bob Farrell, 20 seconds into the first round. Naquin came out swinging and landed two rights and a left to send' Farrell swaggering and conclude 
the shortest bout of the evening. 
The 180 pound slate saw Chet Zwalich down freshman Carl Penn by a unanimous decision and Mike McGarry eliminate Ed Coppola on a split decision. McGarry made a remarkable comeback after being knocked down in the first round, but the senior from Chicago evened things up in the second round and dominated in the third. The decision could have gone either way and the fight was the closest of the night's competition. 
In the 165 pound division John Hicotta beat John Garland on a split decision and Matt Wuellner downed Tom Kelly unanimously. Kevin Poupore defeated Joe Cooler and Dan Betancourt downed Steve Schuster in the 160 pound division. 
The lightweights previewed the upcoming heavy-hitting bouts with boxing styles characteristic of their divisions. The 127 pound 


1 
PHIL HARBERT (right) and Mike Shaw in last night's Bengal's action 
<Photo by Chris Smith). division winner was Dennis unanimous decision. Buchanan who defeated Marcos The 140 pound division saw Pat Honquillo in the first bout of the O'Brien win unanimously over Pat evening. Quickness and finesse Moran and Bob Kane take a played a more important role in standing eight count in dropping a the lighter divisions and Bill split decision to Mike Cramer in Kiskowski used every bit of his to one of the night's more interesting beat Mike Mullin easily in the 135 contests. pound division. The other division Phil Harbert and Jim Clune were wmner. Dave Reyna, knocked unanimous winners in the 150 down Dave Tezza enro_ute to his pound division over Mike Shaw and 
McGrath won a split decision over 
retorts McCoy quickly. "Gale is Pete Ahrens who also took a really tough to handle in practice. standing eight count. Ahrens I rarely beat him. But he teaches appeared to taunt McGrath in the me a lotin practice." opening seconds of the bout, a Ia 
McCoy will continue his crusade Muhammed Ali, and McGrath for Christ, touring the country until quickly became the crowd summer camp opens in July. He favorite. urges all to join his team. In the The Bengal Bouts conclude end, when the real game of life is Thursday night at 8:00p.m. with over, his lockerroom might be the the ten championship contests. 
.., 
KEN'S DEN 
BARBER-HAIRSTYLING 
-Award winning stylists 
-Unique atmosphere Rottler styling products 
703 LWW (ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER) 

25&6500 Appointments eferrEd 

Where Did The u Go? X=Fx+Gw 
A fundamental breakthrough -not really! It's just thCit we wrote a book using this notation (Applied Optimal Estimation, published by MIT Press, Spring '74). The title of the book tells a lot about TASC. Our interest is In apply­Ing the modem systems viewpoint that you have learned. 
Since TASC was founded in 1966, our staff of graduate engi­neers. scientists, data processing specialists and support personnel has grown to more than 140. In addition to having authored several technical books and numerous reports. papers, and articles, our staff members hold patents in bio­medical instrumentation, meteorological sensing, control sys­tem design, and inertial navigation technology. Our work in· volves analytical research related to mathematical modeling of physical processes, optimal state estimation and optimal con­trol, adaptive estimation and control, multisensor system syn­thesis, system identification, system optimization, system test and evaluation techniques, advanced simulation techniques and advanced systems concepts. 
We are a steadily growing applied research firm that enjoys professional expression by solving real systems problems in navigation, guidance and control in defense, space and public systems applications. 
Positions are available for innovative applications -oriented Masters and Doctorate level engineers who have a working knowledge of modern estimation and control theory. 
TASC is conveniently located 10 miles north of Boston. Our benefits include profit-sharing, tuition reimburse· ment. disability income Insurance, in-house technical seminars and paid relocation. U.S. Citizenship required. 
TASC Call Collect 617-944·6850 
Or write drectly to James K. O'Hanl 






