
Marchetti confir1ns CIA spotters 
Calls for stricter 
control on CIA 
by (irt>gg Bangs St•nior Starr Ht>porter 
Ex-CIA official Victor Marchetti called for tighter government controls on the CIA and warned of the growing power of the "imperial presidency" last night in Washington Hall. 
"I think we have to decide whether the CIA is going to func­tion as a regular agency of government or continue to be the spoiled brat of bureaucracy with no harnesses or checks to control it." Marchetti explained to the audience of five hundred. 
He was not just concerned with the CIA. but with the role it played in what he termed the "Imperial Presidency." 
"l<:ver since World War II, Ihere's been a constant drift to an overpowerful presidency with a huge bureaucracy," he stated. "This is supposed to be a con­stitutional democracy, where are the checks and balances that were built into our government?" l\larchetti questioned. 
He thought part of the fault must be put on the Congress who have been "lazy and lethargic" in their dealings with the executive branch. One reason for this is that "many congressmen keep their nit icism silent in return for legislation beneficial to their own district." 
l\larchetti spent 14 years in the CIA before he became disen­

Glickstein defends hiring policies 
AT EASE. After his lecture last night, Victor Marchetti spoke somewhat informally about what Marchetti accompanied some interested listeners to he describes as the CIA problem. the Senior Club ·for a nightcap. While there, (Photo by Chris Smith) 
chanted with the organization and lntt•lligt'lll't'. agents, spotters and secret con­
Marchetti gave a brief history of tacts and activities that are notquit. "I began to disagree with the 1he CIA and explained the reported to Congress.
ro\'ert actions in the third world t·ount ries. Instead of undermining bureaucratic set-up of the The Operation's Department has 
them I felt we should've worked organization. been the object of public attention with them. Vietnam was the worst recently for its clandestine 
of that." he explained. There are four major divisions: operations. These operations,Intelligence, Science an l\larchetti explained, entail three
AftPr quitting·. Marchetti wrote a Tt.•chnology, Management and general activities: 1) intelligence,novel, Tht• Hopt> nancer, which St•rvice. and Operations. These 21 counter-spying, and 3) covert attempted to show the differences organizations technically employ 
action. between what the public knows and 16,000 people and have a budget of The covert action is primarilywhat really happens in the CIA. 750 mill ion dollars but Marchetti 
concerned with intervention in 
He followed this with a current asserts both are considerablybest seller. Tlw ('IA and the Cult or larger because of the number of (continued on page 8) 
by Maureen Flynn Senior Staff Reporter 
Howard A. Glickstein, former director of the Notre Dame Center for Civil Rights, yesterday defended the application of Affirmative Action hiring policies in higher education and advocated stronger enforcement measures. 
Glickstein restated his testimony of Aug. 20, 1975 before the Department of Labor Fact-Finding Hearing on Contract Com­nliance by Institutions of Higher Education. 
Department of Labor Revised Order No.4 requires any institution receiving over $1 million in federal research grants to have an approved Affirmative Action Program for the hiring of women and minorities. 
ThP. program must analyze the current sexual and minority composition of the institution's staff and set goalsand timetables 

THE OTHER POINT OF VIEW. Notre Dame law professor Howard Glickstein reads a copy of Burtchaell's testimony of last August. Glickstein, who also testified at the Labor Department's hearings, defends Affirmative Action, pointing to the unfair hiring practices which are prevented. 
(Photo by Chris Smith) 

for  the  recruitment, hiring  and  promotion of women and  
minorities.  
Dismal hiring record  

In his August testimony, Glickstein told the committee, "The record of universities in affirmative action hiring has been dismal, and ... the government has ignored its law enforcement duties." 
"Without strong and persistent federal pressure to hire more women and minorities," Glickstein asserted, "there is no reason to believe that universities will do what they can to recruit and train more female and minority faculty members." 
Glickstein's testimony, and his recent comments, conflict with statements made yesterday by University Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell before the same committee. 
Burtchaell criticized affirmative action procedures as often unreasonable and challenged the use of federal contracts to enforce social policy. 
The supply of qualified women and minorities, said Burtchaell, is much too small to meet the goals demanded by the Affirmative 
A federal research contract In excess of $1 million has been awarded to Notre Dame's Radiation Laboratory by the Energy Research and Development Administration (ERDA). 
The University was notified last June that the contract might be witheld if its Affirmative Action Program were not approved by HEW's Office for Civil Rights. 
Charles Duffy, Chief of the Higher Education Branch of HEW's Office for Civil Rights In Chiqtgo, confirmed the approval of the contract yesterday. Duffy would not say whether or not the University's Affirmative Action Program has been completely approved, pending official notification to Fr. Hesburgh. 
Action regulations. 
Glickstein noted, "Goals, unlike quotas, are not rigid or precise and good faith failures to accomplish them will be tolerated." 
Universities take major role 
He stated that universities should take a major role in increasing ~he numbers of qualified women and minorities for the future. 
"Since university teachers are, of course, university trained," Glickstein said, "not a great deal of imagination is required to see that universities can deal with their own problems." He cited "underutilization" and inadequate pools of prospects as "precisely their problems." 
(continued on page 8) 

Conducted study 

on CIA contacts 
by Bob Mader Campus Editor 
Former Central Intelligence Agency official Victor Marchetti said last night that some Notre Dame faculty members acted as CIA contacts on campus as recently as 1967. 
Several faculty members and administrators have denied knowledge of CIA contacts on the faculty. 
"I know there were spotters here," Marchetti said. "I con­ducted a study on them." 
Marchetti conducted the survey of CIA contacts at universities in 1967 at the request of then CIA director Richard Helms. Mar­chetti was then executive assistant to the executive director, the number three man at the agency. 
"The study was done in 1967 after exposure of CIA involvement in the National Student Association," Marchetti ex­plained. "Helms wanted to know the extent of our involvement at the universities." 
Approximately 100 universities were involved in the study. Marchetti stated the degree of faculty involvement at universities revealed by the study ranged from routine contacts to legitimate research to spotters. 
A spotter is a faculty member who looks for students with potential to become "clandestine" agents," Marchetti said. 
Deny "spotters" 
Former Placement Bureau Director Fr. Louis Thornton said he can't recall the existence of spotters on the faculty. Thornton was director between 1956 and 1970. 
All employers have some contact with faculty members in order to get references, Thornton said. 
"When an employer is con­sidering a graduate for work he wants to know as much about the boy as possible," Thornton explained. "For example, representatives of U.S. Steel would 

know  professors  on  the  
engineering  faculty.  So  if  a  
representative  of  the  CIA  had  

talked to a faculty member, I would see nothing wrong with that." · 
Placement Bureau Director Richard Willemin said his office terminated their formal relationship with the CIA in 1969 following student demonstrations against the Agency. 
Any student interested in em­ployment with the CIA must now contact the agency first. The CIA would then hold an interview either in the placement bureau offices or in a local motel, Willemin said. 
"I don't know what avenues they use to replace lost manpower," Willemin said. "Most contacts, I suppose, are by word of mouth." 
Government professor Fr. Raymond Cour said he didn't know of any spotters on the faculty. Former CIA agent and and Notre Dame graduate Philip Agee claimed in August that the CIA had faculty spotters at Notre Dame. 
"I was surprised by Agee's allegations in the South Bend Tribune this summer," Cour said. 
Government Department chairman Edward Goerner said he had no knowledge of spotters. "I suppose some faculty members, 
(continued on page 8f 


2 
, 

warld briefs 
WASHINGTON <AP> -Saudi Arabia will pay for a major new six-year program to train about 1,300 of its technicians and pilots in the United States, the Air Force said Wednesday. 
The program, due to begin late this month at Lackland Air Force Base, Tex., will cost the Saudis between $90 and $100 million, the Air Force said. 
The new training program is one of the most extensive of its kind in a growing U.S. relationship with Arab and other Middle East arms customers. 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. <AP>-A former college professor accused of kidnaping a Purdue University coed for an experiment to brainwash her into falling in love with him pleaded guilty Wed­nesday to a bargained charge of conspiracy. 
Thomas R. Lippert, 25, a Notre Dame law school graduate and former professor at Southwest State College' in Marshall, Minn., also pleaded guilty to a second count of conspiracy in the attempted kidnaping of a Notre Dame coed who was his original subject. 
WASHINGTON <AP>-Youths experimenting with marijuana at an earlier age are contributing to an alarming upswing in the nation's drug abuse problem, the government reported Wed­nesday. 
Dr. Robert L. DuPont, director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, told reporters he was quite alarmed about the growing use of marijuana among young people. 

an campus tada,, 
4:00 p.m. · seminar, "thermodynamic properties of the sol'vlted electron In liquid ammonia", nd conference r~•• radiation lab. 
4:30 p.m. · colloquium, "operator theory problems related to control theory", rm. 226, computing center. 
5:15 p.m.. evensong vespers, log chapel. 
7,9&11 p.m. -·mm, "return of th dragon", eng. aud., Sl. 
7:30 
p.m. _computer course, "pl-1 . a aynthesls of fortran and cobol," rm. 115, computing center. 

7:30 
p.m. ·lecture, "zen and the art of motorcycle maintenance," lib. lounge. 


8:00 p.m.. concert, carole farley, part of "i975 internat'l women's year," o'laughlin aud. 
Cheerleaders hold game bannercontest 
The second weekly banner ticipate according to t·ontest,sponsored by the Notre cheerieader Jim Clouse. Dame cheerleaders, will be held 
Criteria for judging will beI his J<'riday, according to a 

neatness, originality and

spokesman for the group. 
relavance to this week's game Entrants must caii the Student against the Michigan State Actvities office no later than 4 p.m. Spartans. on Friday and submit their name, 
The winner of the contest willlocation of the banner, and its receive his or her prize at the peptheme. Banners should be hung rally on Friday night in Stepenoutside the dormitories and will b~ Center and the winning banner will judged on Friday afternoon. 

be displayed at the game on Sat­

A $50 cash prize is being offered urday. to the winner of this week's con­lest. The amount of the prize was Any questions should be directed raised this week in order to en­to either Andy Praschak at 1770 or courage more students to ar-Marianne Grabavoy at 7819. 

A Good Place ~Be! When? Tomorrow (and every Fri) 
A chance to be with good people for Mass and informal supper. Everyone welcome -Mass at 5:15 
TOMORROW! 
. 
--------------------------------------J 
Prisonersabduct hostages 
LAKEWOOD, Colo. (AP) -visitors. ried rifles and marksmen could Two federal prison inmates Spenard said Rollins was be seen posted atop a nearby armed with pistols held two serving a term for bank rob­water tower and at a golf 
guards and a number of vis· bery as a juvenile. The other eourse overlooking the center. itors inside a visitors' room at inmate was identifid as Henry The stone building where the a vouth correction center l\1 ichael Cassidy, 20, of Mis­hostages were being held is one Wednesday and demanded their soula. 1\lont., serving a term of several two-story structures 
freedom. for burglary on an Indian res­inside the chain-link fence Prvation. topped with barbed wire.
Authorities said the pistols • Ahout 100 law enforcement The facility houses 373 in­apparently were smuggled into 
officers surrounded the correc­mates. The other inmates werethe institution by a woman vis­tional facility about 15 miles locked up immediately afteritor. Authorities said the hos­
southwPst of Denver. Some car-the incident.
tages were four visitors and two guards, but a telecast from the room indicated the extra person may have been another 


CTOBERFES
inmate. No mJurtes were reported. Jefferson County Lt. Earl Spe­nard said three shots were 

IS COMING!! 
fired at the beginning of the in­cident. but he said he did not know who fired them. 
At the inmates' request, a 

WATCH 
television reporter, Frank Cur­rier of KBTV in Denver, was taken inside the prison com­

FOR DETAILS ... 
pound by FBI agents. In a live broadcast, Currier played a ..,....••.., 
•• • 
mostly inaudible tape recording ; NOW OPEN ;
of inmate Alfred Smith Rollins, ...-...­19, of Kansas City. Jt-.. * 
Rollins demanded the release *~ WE CATER ~a· •~ 
of the two inmates and asked ...-r V J ...­for sandwiches and coffee. He * * said he reared he would "be ~ VICTORY PARTIES ~ 
·murdered in the institution -...-...­murdered by the FBL" : : 
Spenard said the hostages ~ KEG BEER ~ 
were four visitors and two ; ; guards. Currier's conversation * * with Rollins indicated one of ...... (IN STQ(K) ......
:-; . ~ 
the visitors was an an inmate ~ CATERING. ~ 
related to three of the hostage ...--A ...­
r--------.t SPECIALLY -WAY GAMES : 
Tne Obo:.erver 1S published Monday 
• TO THE WE CATER FOR * 
through Fr1day and weekly durmg 
: ND-SMC :
the o:.ummer o:.ess10n. e)(cept dur1ng e•ams -'!l'ld vacat1on per1ods The 
* COMMUNITY BUS TRIPS * 
Obo;erver 15 publoshed by the '>ludents of the Unov of Notre 
~. PHONE: 259-0261 HOURS: : 
D'ame and 5t Mary·s College Sui>Scr1piiOn!> may be purchased 
! FREE :
* MON-SAT * 
dollaro; per year> from The Ob server. Bo• Q, Notre Dame. In 
: DELIVERY 9:30-MIDNIGHT:
d1ana. 46556 Second class postage pa1d, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
~ (with $15.00 minimum purchase) ~ 
~-----------------····································· 
George C.Scott andWilliantDevane in 

r· 

Xerox is proud to present a tnajor television special starring George C. Scott and Willian1 Devane. "Fear On Trial" is the gripping dratnatization ofthe true story of]ohn Henry Faulk, a CBS broadcaster \vho \Vas unable to fmd \vork because a group ofself-appointed arbiters questioned his beliefs and his patriotisn1. 
In the 1950's and early 1Q60's, the hysteria ofCon1n1unist witch-hunts, defatnation and blacklisting drove teachers fron1 their jobs, forced nunisters fron1 their churches and put perforn1ers and writers out of\Vork. 
"Fear On Trial" is the story ofone n1an who chose to fight back. 
Tonight on the CBS-TV Network. XERa~v 9:00 .Channel2 2 V\ 
----------------------------------------------~-------, 
Event not insured Thur\day~--ottob'er·i~t7'$,.T the obse\-ve-r·l' 3-­
Byrne carries armory dance responsibility 
by Kathy Byrne Staff Reporter 
All legal responsibility for the Armory Dance this Friday night is on Student Body President Ed 
Byrne  and  Social  Commission  
Chairman  Charlie  Moran.  The  
dance  will  carry  no  alcohol  
liability insurance.  
The  Hornbeck  Insurance  

Agency, an independent office which represents several major insurance companies, told Moran 1\tonday that they were unable to find an insurance company willing to cover alcohol liability at less than $1,500 for the one night affair. 
"They never said yes, but they led us to believe that there would be no problem," Moran explained. "In order to cover an economically unfeasible price like that and still stay within our budget we would have to raise the price of the tickets $1.50, and we do not want to have to do that." 
It would be possible to get non­alcoholic liability coverage for the dance which would cover any accidents not related to drinking, such as falling down when boar­ding the bus. The present budget is able to supprt the cost of this type of insurance, according to Moran. 
Moran stressed the importance of mature behavior at the armory. 
"It would take just one incident and the entire assets of Student Government could be liquidated," Moran said. "It wouldn't be just the case of one person sitting in jail, but a lawsuit from which all further activities of the year would be cancelled." 
He asked the students to remember that if damage is in­curred there would be no further armory dances. 
SLC membershlp• Comp e e 
hl 1\la•·k M. Murphy Staff Rf'porter 
The membership of the Student Life Council is now complete following the announcement of Plection results by the Ad­ministration and Faculty. 
Joining ex-officio member Bro. Just Paczesny, the Ad­ministration's representatives are John T. Goldrick, director of ad­missions; Sr. Jean Lenz, rectress of Farley Hall; James Roemer, dean of students; and John Reed, assistant director of student ac­tivities. 
The faculty representation l'onsists of ex-officio member Hobert Kerby, vice-chairman of the Faculty Senate; Michael J. l''rancis, associate prof. of Government; William P. Sexton, associate prof. of Management; Michael J. Cmwe, prof. of General Program; and Carole E. Moore, assistant prof. of History. 
These ten members join five student representatives who were elected last week. 
The Council has the respon­
sibility of establishing rules and 
regulations governing student life, 
subject to the · approval of 
llniversity President Rev. 
Theodore Hesburgh. 
The Student Affairs office 
l'onducted the election of 
t·epresentatives from the Ad­
ministration, submitting a pre­
selected slate of nominees to 
eligible voters for their approval. 
Also on the ballot was the option 
for write-in votes. 
Hev. Terrence Lally, assistant 
\'ice-president of Student Affairs, explained the election process insured that a well-informed and interested group would be on the · SLC. "The nominees are indeed representative of the entire Ad­ministration and are closely related to student interests," Lally 
said. 

When asked if the election might be considered unfair to some, Lally noted that he had received a few complaints "but they were grioes 
When signing the contract Moran and Byrne agreed that students would ride buses to the dance, and that all Notre Dame students would act like adults. In turn, they were promised that if no damages were incurred the owners would be more than willing to allow additional dances later in the year. 
The buses are an integral part o' the event, especially with the loss of liability insurance. 
Moran emphasized that students are asked not to drive after the buses have dropped them back to the campus because Student Government is liable for their actions until Saturday morning. 
In the case of off-campus students, the buses will stop at strategic locations such as the Library Lounge and Campus View Apartments. 
Buses will leave the Notre Dame 
I t 

The SLC met informally with Fr. Hesburgh in his chairpersons. 
· about the process, not the people. We wanted to get administrators who were interested in the SLC and who know about the affairs of the Council's actions." 
· Paul F. Conway, chairman of the 
, Faculty Senate, sent questionaire cards to the faculty and received some 53 replies from members indicating they were interested in serving on the SLC. 
"After a vote those names were reduced to six and from that number we elected the representatives to fill our two openings," Conway stated. Prof. lo~t·ancis and Prof. Sexton have l'ompleted only one year of their two-year terms and Prof. Kerby is a non-elected member. 
Ed Byrne, acting chairman of the SLC and student body president. called an informal meeting of the Council Wednesday night to meet with Fr. Hesburgh. "WP want to discuss the role of the SLC in the University," Byrne said, "so everyone will have a elear understanding of what the Council can and can't do." 
Student Body President Ed Byrne 
office.  Hesburgh began the session with  a brief  was  elected  chairperson,  and  faculty  member  
review of the history of the SLC, the reasons for its  !:arole Moore  was voted as sistant chairperson.  
existence, its ac:cemplishments.  The group then  (Photo by Chris Smith)  
went on to form goals for the coming year and elect  

Board allocates student funds 
by 1\laurf'f'n O'Brien Staff Rf'porter 
The Student Union will receive over half of the 88,000 dollars allocated to Notre Dame organizations from student ac­tivity fees. 
At their meeting Wednesday, the Board of Commissioners gave the Student Union $50,000 for 1975-76 operations. Student Government received $19,049 and the Halls President Council (HPC) got $12,400. 
Other student organizations which received money were: In­ternational Students Organization, $1,200; Society of Ujamma, $1,000; 1\lECIIA, $750; WSND AM-FM, $250; Circle K, $220; Rowing Club, $200; Sailing Club, $150, and the Fellowship of Christian Athletes, 
$75. . • . '< "\ '\._~·.,_ .• ·,.~ ....... "·" \1.--. '-· -. ~ 
.... :.r_.c;.· •·•• ~ .. 

Six new organizations applied for funds this year and received money from the board. The new groups are CILA, $750; Notre Dame Prisoners Teachers' Assn., $100; Photography Club, $100; Community Services, $55; Course Evaluation Booklet $950, and the Society for Creative Anachronism, $1. 
Right to Life, National Society of Black Engineers, Finance Club and the Business Activities Council applied for funds this year but were not allocated any. 
Commenting ontheallocationof funds, Student Body Treasurer, John Hargraves. explained the 
breakdown.  "Funds were  
distributed  to  the  various  
organizations  depending  on  the  

size of the organization and its $13,000, but they owed Student Government $600, so it comes to $12,400. HPC will break down its allocation into funds for Hall Life 
and An Tostal."
"MECHA did not receive as much as it did last year because it isn't 
as big as it used to be," he said. Hargraves added, "Student 
Government's budget is smaller this year. This is because InPIRG .is no longer part of Student ~~~e;;a~~~t and we bought a van 
The Board of Commissioners,
which consists of three SLC 
representatives, three Student .Government representatives and one HPC representativve will meet on Nov. 1 to review the budget. 
Any appeals by the organizations should be made by next Tuesday and submitted to the Student 
need for . f ~n ~~. We. ~~.~g.e! ~~ ~!?.~ . , ~~v.e!'12''!1!N o!f~<:e. .. . • • __"' .. .. .. • .~. 
~ ..........' 

circle at 8:30; 8:45; 9:00; and 9:30. of hot dogs and hamburgers is also They will depart from Holy Cross being considered. Hall at St. Mary's at 8:30; 9:00 and Tickets are being sold tonight9:30. 
and tomorrow at the Student Union 
There will be slightly less beer ticket office and in both diningthan in previous years, but more halls at a price of $3. At St. Mary'sthan enough for everyone, ac­tickets will be sold tonight in the cording to Moran. The possibility hall lobbies. 
Senate rejects an end of price controls on gas 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The St'nate refused Wednesday to end price controls on natural gas immediately amid indications a more gradual approach probably will be approved. 
Bv a 57-31 vote, the Senate killed an amendment bySenPaul Fannin, H-Ariz., that would have ended controls on all "new" natural gas, retroactive to July 1. 
'Wednesday's vote and ~ta~ements by ~arious senators md1cated there IS a good chance the Bentsen-Pearson proposal will be passed, meaning higher prices for home-heating gas and, spon­sors say, greater incentives for increased gas production. 
The Ford administration has urged repeal of controls on grounds they have held prices so low that industry's attempts to find new oil and gas are being thwarted 
by, a lack of money. 
Under a 1954 Supreme Court 
decision, the Federal Power 
C'omm ission regulates the price of 
natural gas that is sold outside the 
state where it is produced. The 
current FPC ceiling price is 52 
cents per 1,000 cubic feet mcf, 
although the nationwide average 
price of this interstate gas is about 
30 cents. 
The proposal rejected by the 
Senate on Wednesday would have 
removed price controls, 
retroactive to July 1, on "new" 
gas, which is gas, most of it still in 
the fields, that has never been sold 
to a pipeline.I But all "old" gas, that already i under contract, would have been 
freed of price controls as the 
current contracts expire. Most 
contracts are for 10 to 20 years. 
Six Concert Package 
SOUTH BEND SYMPHONY 
Student Prices $10, $8, $6 

N·OWON SALE 
Student Union Ticket Office 
TODAY -FRIDAY 

only '2 mile Southeast of 
campus l (across from Kentucky Fried Chicken and the Linebacker) FOR 





MICHAE~S MEN 
.. For Appt. 272-7222. 
ROLLERBALL 
7:00, 9:30 F
1 

2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 S-S 6:45, 9:15 M-Th 


THREE SISTERS 
8:00 M-F 

2:00, 5:00, 8:00 S-S 6:45, 9:15 M-Th 
Uuiler-lluu~e t=lix 
TWIN THEATRES-100 CENTER-MISHAW AKA-255-9575 
CHECK OUT 
HOPS 'N SPIRITS 
A -:! I~REFRESHMENTS 
BEER SPECIALS  -LIQUOR STORE­ ON  
SIX PACKS  ( ~ \'  "LIQUID  

EIGHT PACKS TWELVE PACKS lt~.:.~~~ ::::::w...~}TQ ENJOY AT & KEGS ~ /') ) YOUR NO,
)-1.... <.VICTORY PARTY" 
(-/ ~ 
812 E. LASALLE SOUTH BEND 289-0606 
l.!:::i;;;i;~~~~;;;;:;;~;;;~.;:.::i.=:-=:;.ci:.~;;;:;;:A:i;:;:;:;::;;;:;;:;;:;;:;:o:::;====~ 

• 

Tax cut proposed by De:mocrats 

Thursct.y. October l, lt75
thA nhse'rver·

2 
Thunday, October2, 1975

4 the observer 
WASHINGTON <AP> -A new tax cut of up to $10 billion and a $3 billion jobs program were proposed Wednesday by Democratic members of the Juint Economic Committee to help end "the terrible waste" 
in  the economy.  
The  proposals  would  help  
create one  million  to  1.5 million  

jobs next year, said the com­mittee chairman, Sen. Hubert 
H. Humphrey. D-Minn. 
The Republican minority on the committee said President Ford should extend the 1975 tax cuts into 1976, but warned that new reductions could bring on a return of double-digit inflation and endanger the recovery from recession. 
features 

women in a men s church 
(COntinued from pg. 5) 
ministry of the church and insist that their minist­ry is publicly acknowledged. Yet women are also aware of the pitfalls of the present clerical, eelibate and hierarchical form of the Catholic priesthood. When I ask the women in my classes if they would want to be ordained, most respond: "Yes, but not as relibate clergy" or "Yes, if I would want to belong to the church." The invitation to the ordination con­ference expresses the same awareness: "To speak of the or­dination of women is to speak of transformation in the very concept of priestly ministry. Equal or­dination is the test case, but the transformation of a celibate priesthood, a hierarchical church and a male-clerical theology is its unconditional prerequisite and consequence. 
Women have tolbe visible on all levels of the church, they have to become priests, bishops, carinals and popes, they have to be involved in formulatirg theology and celebrating ~e liturgy, if the church shoulc. truly become a community of equals before God and the world. Yet the ordination of women can not simply mean their addition and integration into the clergy. but implies a psychological, structural and theological revolution. Women no longer could be seen as unclean, carnal, subordinate beings, but as full autonomous, responsible actin g persons. The Christian com­munity no longer could be split into an actve leadership of male dominance and a passive mem­bership of female submission, but functions as a community of 
•' 
Meanwhile, a former member of the Federal Reserve Board, Andrew Brimmer, accused the board of pursuing policies that threaten to bring the nation's economic recov~rv to a halt. 
Brimmer told the Senate Budget Commith>e the board should encourage faster growth of the nation's money supply -· between 8 and 10 per cent a year and lower interest rates. 
"Otherwise expansion of the economy cannot be assured," said Brimmer, who left the board a year ago to join the faculty of Harvard University. The Fed's money growth target now is 5 per cent to 7.5 per cent. 
, 

' Brimmer also urged that Congress extend the 1975 tax reductions, and said somewhat greater reductions would be needed to keep tax withholding rates from rising in January. The Joint Economic Com­mittee released its recommen­dations in a mid-year economic report. "If our recommendations are followed unemployment should continue to fall steadily," the committee said in its report. "If our recommendations are ignored, it is our best judgment that unemployment will remain near its present levels or even begin rising again at the end of the next year ... " But Humphrey acknowledged 

ARMORY DANCE OCT . 3 8:30-1:00 
TICKETS AVAILABLE 
Reg. 89' AT 
2 FOR $149 
N.D. DINING HALLS (dinner) 
LIMIT 4 PER COUPON
S.U: TICKET OFFICE {8-5) S.M.C. DORMS {6:30-7:30) 


OCT. 1,2,3 
TICKETS 

Reg. 89'


PRICE $3.00 
LIMITED 

2 $149
FOR 

ALL MUST RIDE BUS FOR DANCE ADMITTANCE! 
.. 

that even if all the committee's of one per cent. proposals were adopted by the The administration's own Ford Administration the unem­forecast is for an unemploy­ployment rate might still be as ment rate of 7 per cent to 7.5 high as 7.3 per cent by the end per cent by the end of next of 1976. He said it would reduce year. Unemployment was 8.4 the inflation rate by six-tenths per cent in August. 
Den1ocratic calllpaigners receive free protection 
persons who are all called by God sexist traditions and norms would to active participation and be removed. Structural change leadership. Theology could no and the evolution of a feminist longer reflect the patriarchal theology, and non-sexist language, mindset of past and present imagery and myth have to go hand cultures, but would speak about­in hand. Yet we have not to wait for God, Christ or grace in non-sexist the approval of Rome. We can ea tegories. start right now by using inclusive 
Even though Christian tradition and non-sexist language,by par­and theology always maintained ticipating as full responsible that God transcends gender as well persons in the life of the church. as race, its masculinized God­The ordination conference in Det­language communicates to roit is not a call for new "studies" Christian women and men that and petitions, but a call to action. maleness but not femaleness is part of the divine reality. Whereas Homan Catholicism was fortunate to have a female religious symbol in the Virgin Mary, the symbol nevertheless implied the subor­dination of women and has often been used as an argument ageinst their ordination. Likewise the maleness of Christ is often cited against women's ordination. Yet if maleness and not humaness is the goal of incarnation, how could women be saved? 

Bible and tradition reflect the patriarchial cultures of their times. Biblical language, stories and commands maintain therefore the superiority of man over woman. At the same time we find in scripture and tradition another voice which transcends the patriarchial-sexist language and cultural injunctions of the time. In the history of the church and theology. this liberating biblical and theological tradition was often neglected and abandon~ to the cultural prejudice. The 
patriarchal sexist traditions were 
developed for the sake of male 
dominance within the church. 

If women would be admitted to 
the full membership in the church, 
the main reason for continuing 
WASHINGTON <AP> Democratic presidential cam­paigners are gaining .valuable political fringe benefits along with their new Secret Service protection although the agency says its men won't "participate in the politics of the candi-· dates." 
Campaign aides say the Se­tTe! Service can't avoid helping a candidate when it sets out to guard him. 
Agents are deploying to guard four candidates now or in the near future, with more to be eovered later. 
In the process, the govern­ment will help finance the can­didates' campaign travels and take over much of the advance work that is essential to a pres­idential candidate. 
The Secret Service has issued an eight-page, red, white and blue booklet describing what it will and won't do as it seeks "to insure a safe environment for your candidate." 
The Secret Service refuses to say how many agents are as­signed to a candidate on grounds that would breach se­l'urity. But a Democratic cam­paign aide said as many as 20 \\'('re assigned to each candi­date at the height of the 1972 presidential primary season. Another said he had been told that about 12 would be trav­l'ling with his candidate. 
Stringent campaign spending limits have curtailed the use of chartered airplanes by the can­didates this year, but with the Sl.'cret Service aboard, that may change. 
For example, Rep. Morris K. lldall may switch from small ' planes to a faster, more com­fortable, 20-seat turboprop when ·he uses chartered flights. 

3 LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU 
710 W. McKINLEY AVE.-MISHAWAKA (Town & Cou~try Shopping Center) 1702 S. MICHIGAN -SOUTH BEND 1807 LINCOLNWAY EAST -SOUTH BEN 
Reg. 89' 


2 $149
~ 
FOR 
~ 

~LIM IT 4 PER COUPON ,~ Coupon expires OCT~ 
Reg. 89' 


2 $149
FOR 

. . . . . . 

• e • · • I t t t

t ~ •-• ' • • .. • ; -~ "\. ... . • ' ' '\ . -, ' .. ~ 'I ' ,. .. • 'II • • 
Thur$day, October 2, 1975 
the observer 
5 

a perspectiue on crime and punishment 
edward a. malloy, c.s.c. 
A fear dominates the lives of many with much crime going unreported. In Americans, a fear so tangible that it has response to this danger, especially in our drastically affected some of the most basic major metropolitan areas, individuals and patterns of social interaction. At times it groups have resorted to various measures seems as if the foreboding, vivid expection for self-protection. Almost one-third of all of what might happen is more significant Americans claim to keep a firearm at home than the concrete experience of its reality. for protection. Many others resort to wat­The problem that generates this fear is chdogs or elaborate warning devices. crime; crime in its multifarious forms, but Because of the preoccupation with security most expecially the violent, impersonal in the business world, a new growth industry crime which so often preys upon the very has been created -private guard agencies. young and the very old, the feeble, the And all of this is not confined to the cities. defenseless, the weak. When people are Even suburban and rural America are frightened, they tend to search desperately beginning to recognize that, as the central for security and some vestige of a stable city becomes an armed, monitored camp social order. And this, of course, is the great with high concentrations of police, the danger that flows from the crime problem -outlying regions have become ever more the danger that demagoguery will take vulnerable. advantage of this predicament to destroy <2) The Effects of Crime -Perhaps the whatever vestige of equity in the con­most devastating effect of crime is the way stitutional process that we have been able to in which it breeds distrust and cynicism and achieve. I propose to summarize quickly the progressively destroys the fabric of human problem of crime and then to offer some community. The stranger becomes the general persp~ctives which might be useful enemy, the one to be feared. In many in­in attempts to solve it. stances, violent crime is associated with 
<1lThe Reality of Crime -Crime is a particular racial or ethnic groups or with major American social problem. For those adolescents and young adults and all the who have known it personally, this con­latent antagonisms and prejudices of our tention requires no proof. But even the society are reinforced and justified. Fur­objective data show the crime rate soaring, thermore crime affects the central in­
'11~
tfll 




impossible question 
'\ 
\ \! t/ I fr. bill toohey
~-
body counts of participants at weekend
repeating itself. Over liturgies. How much does this "evidence"and over again. As soon as people find out 
where you work and what you do, they want really tell you -about faith or a person's spiritnal life. for instance?
to know: "What is the Notre Dame student So, when someone asks you -"What is the
like these days?" 
typical N.D. student like?" -you might tell I used to think I was supposed to give them no one knows; tell them to come outsome simplified over-view, a neat cap­here and spend a year or so, and that, evensulation of the "average"student. Well, 
maybe I was; but I soon found out how then, they won't know. A friend told me 
recently that he has been asked to write astupid it is to think such a thing is possible. 
book "on youth." We were agreeingI've become thoroughly convinced that together about the futility of such a project.
one is crazy to let himself get caught in the How do you write a book about youth?
trap of generalizing. I find myself becoming Maybe about individual youths, maybeawfully uncomfortable with people who so about Jim, Mary, Beth, Bob, and real peoplecasually make such incredible claims -the you've known. At the very least, one shouldresearcher, for example, who professes to be extremely modest about what hehold the key to the secrets about "the youth con­
of today," or the administrator who talks to presumes he can accomplish when 
sidering a subject involving persons often students a month, and thinks he knows every possible temperament, personality,"the student mind." 
value system, and human characteristic.
In her controversial new book, Liberal And so one is rightly humbled whenParents, Radical Children, Midge Deeter speaking about the Notre Dame student;writes about the collegians of the '60's, forced to acknowledge, right off, that therecelebrated by Charles Reich and Paul is no such entity. We look around us and seeGoodman, liberated by Timothy Leary, variety that precludes facile classification;Baba Ram Dass, and the Pill, hymned by and realize hopefully that we can onlythe Beatles and the Stones. She examines reflect on the few other persons we've been their fears, their weaknesses, and their able to meet and come to know.
inordinate dependencies; she shows why We have to admit there are somethese children (now in their late twenties we've knownwho seem to fit the category of and early thirties) "are not in good shape." 
Dr. Herbert a either chauvinists or castrating witches;
Hendin, psychoanalyst but there are also those many others whofrom Columbia University, has just com­dare to love and care for others, which in­pleted a six-year study of the current volves them in the terrifying and excitinggeneration of college students. He says they risks of human intimacy.
are characterized by the pursuit of 
disengagement, detachment, fragmen­You hear a senior woman say, "If one tation, and emotion numbness. This means, more dumb underclassman comes up and 
Hendin claims, today's students are in tries to introduce himself, I'm going to "revolt against love"-they believe personal vomit!" And, in almost the next instant, involvement invites disaster; life is a trap, another who is telling of how rewarding it they feel, and attachments make the trap was for her to work on Freshmen Orien­
tighter. tation. One student tears an article out of a Sociologist Andrew Greeley seems to reserve book, thereby shafting all the others agree, going so far as to suggest that "the who are hoping to do the same assignment, 
best and brightest of our much praised while another gives away his football ticket younger generation tend to be something so a South Bend youngster can see the pretty much like sociopaths in their game. relationships with one another." Greeley So it goes. We look at ourselves and refers to certain caricatures of honest 
around us, and see some of the most 
sexuality and the struggle for women's generous, selfish; childish, mature; self­rights, and cites them as responsible for centered, outgoing; warm, cold; hopeful, untold harm. he speaks about the ideology cynical; considerate, impolite; gross, of "permissiveness," requiring young men sensitive; abusive, gentle people in the to act like chauvinists ("a ready-made whole world. excuse for young men to act out their Maybe that's the point. There is a world adolescent sexual fantasies and turn the here. A world of variety. And perhaps we Playboy philosophy loose on real women need to remind ourselves occasionally how 
rather than slick centerfolds"); and also the important it is to respect that. We are 
ideology of "liberated women," demanding conservatives and liberals; Democrats and 
that young females act like castrating Republicans; we belong to Y AF, KC, CILA, 
witches ("you are not only free to play fast MECHA; we take part in inter-hall sports, 
and loose with a young man's fragile male student government, band, glee club, chapel ego, demolishing him when he permits choir; we work at Logan Center, the dining himself to get ever-so-slightly involved, it hall, Children's Hospital; we are found at 
means that you have the solemn duty to Corby's, Darby's, Bulla Shed, the Senior punish all men because they are by Club, ACC, Huddle, Grotto, Memorial definition and on a priori grounds guilty of Library, and a Beach Boys ticket-line. We chauvinism"). are each unique. And this is in­
Anyway, that's a sample of some of the' distinguishable from our dignity as special things the "experts" are discussing these creations of God. days about youth. I won't deny that it's I feel more at home with this. It seems 
more real than fanciful exercises in an­import ant to keep up on the literature; yer, I swering impossible questions. It's muchcan't help wondering how truly insightful all better to respect our uniqueness, andthe sweeping generalizations are. I feel celebrate our individuality; and believe thatabout them somewhat te same as I do about it can lead to finding true communion in the 
some religious surveys ("How many 
one who is Father to us all.

students visit Sacred Heart Church?") or 
stitutions of the common life. Public Thesis I -The very definition of criminal 
transportation goes unused, recreational behavior has become problematic in 
areas are taken over by a limited segment modern society. Therefore, a high priority 
of the population, cultural and social events should be given to various attempts at value 
are restricted to daylight hours, empty clarification so that a workable public ethic 
churches cease to be places of quiet prayer. might emerge. In this context, it is better to 
Basically, crime forces people to forego expunge certain laws from the books (which 
those endeavors and opportunities for social project a high moral standard) rather than 
participation which give life richness and to breed corruption by their inconsistent or 
meaning and which are essential to the reluctant enforcement. 
vitality of a human community. Thesis II -The police function is not the 
(3) The Criminal -There is no one iden­key to solving the crime problem. The police tifiable class of Americans who commit our have an invaluable part to play, often under crimes. The revelations of Watergate, the impossible working conditions, but man­testimony about the activities of the CIA, power and financial increases, beyond a the periodic exposes of police and judicial certain point, create as many problems as corruption, the misuse of power by big they solve. business, all belie the theory espoused by Thesis III -The solutiun to the problem of 
some, that crime has specific socio­violent crime is very much connected with 
economic roots. We are troubled by white­the control of guns in our society. Gun 
collar crime, organized crime, street crime, control legislation cannot be totally ef­
revolutionary crime, and crimes of passion. fective, yet it may move us toward a 
Yet it must be acknowledged that the rethinking of our gun-slinger and vigilante
crimes of indiscriminate violence against heritage. 
person and property, that Americans seem Thesis IV-The American prison system is to fear the most, are commited by a an abysmal failure. We should stop kidding restricted segment of the criminal ourselves that we are rehabilitating
population. The villains romanticized in our prisoners. Instead, the discussion should tradition of the Western movie or the slick revolve around the percentage of criminals international agents opposing James Bond who need to be isolated for the common good 
or Interpol, seldom resemble the young and the most humane conditions under 
black, Puerto Rican, poor white, or chicano which this can be achieved. 
criminal that citizens would like to per­Thesis V -There is no immediate 
manently banish from our society. likelihood that the environmental, 
<4 l The Solution -Obviously, there is no psychological or moral factors which may 
one solution to the crime problem. Its social, predispose one to a life of violent crime will 
political and economic roots are extremely be significantly improved. We possess 
complex. And much depends on what we neither a theoretical nor a practical con­
think of the nature of man and how capable sensus around which to mobilize a reform 
the species is of moral improvement. effort. Consequently, the crime problem will 
Personally, I consider crime <in its most be with us for the foreseeable future. The 
malevolent forms) to be a manifestation of only way to avoid pessimism and a sense of 
human sinfulness. However, the same man doom is to concentrate on those facets of the 
who is sinner tor criminal) is also created in problem which we can personally and 
the image of God so that I cannot accept any collectively influence. To achieve this, we 
theory of punishment which depersonalizes need to be as informed as we can be about 
or strips the criminal of his basic human the problem and ready to support realistic 
dignity. Proposals for solving the crime strategies of improvement. 
problem must strive for some balance Perhaps, I could be allowed to end on an 
between protection of the common good ethical note. The fear of crime is based on a 
through institutionalized criminal justice real danger to civil life as we have pictured 
procedures and protection of the rights of it in•our national foundation documents. 
the criminal. Many have suffered and will continue to 
In this light I would like to offer several suffer victimization. However, we must not 
theses for your consideration. They are the allow fear to paralyze our moral sense. 
fruits of one man's attempt to think about Justice is a high ideal, difficult to realize in 
this key problem. I realize that in each case, times of crisis. But justice must always be 
as the professional literature indicates, tempered by love, the kind of love that can 
further argumentation would be required to forgive seventy times seven times. 
sustain my point. 
women in a men's church 
elisabeth fiorenza, phd. 
The Jesuit sociologist Joseph H. Fichter heology. It ranges from the demand for 
observed years ago: "Women attend church equal ordination rights for women to the 
more often than men, pray more often than reconceptualization of theology and faith in 
men. hold firmer beliefs than men, a feminist perspective. 
t·ooperate more in church programs than Today, the drive for sexual equality 
men. are expected to be more religious than within the churches is the ecumenical issue 
men, -yet organized religion is dominated par excellence. Many protestant churches 
by men." As the women's movement makes have ordained women for a long time, but 
more and more inroads into church com-have not given them lt.'qual opportunities in 
munities Christian women and men come ministry and theology. Only recently the 
to rea liz~ this overt male domination of ch-LutheranChurch removed barriers to ordain 
urch and theology. In a recent letter, a the first female mini~ters. Reform Ju~aism 
friend of mine expressed this experience has welcomed the first women rabbi, and 
very aptly: the ordination of Episcopal women to the 
priesthood in Philadelphia and Washington 
. . "I haH really felt much pain overthepast still provokes ecclesiastical trials and bans. 
few ~·ea1·s as my realization deepens of how The Church of England has declared in its 
badly treated we are in our own church. Our general synod thatthereare no fundamental 
parish liturgy is more than painful. I am theological objections against the ordination 
tired of bt'ing called 'brother' and told that of women, but because of ecumenical 
('hrist's blood was shed for all men. Last reasons they did not think it was wise to do 
~unda~· we had a stimulating day at the so. Vatican officials and the Pope have 
mothe•·house on "Women and Ministry". stressed several times that there is no 
There was one priest present, an even after prospect that te Roman Catholic Church will 
Jistening to us for several hours, he said ordain women. 
during the mass "pray brothers" in a room Despite these Roman warnings, 
fillt'd b)· sistt-rs. Rut the worst discrepancy American Catholics will gather Nov. 28-30 in 
is that after a day of praying, reflecting and Detroit for an ordination conference: 
sharing good idt.>as we have to call in a man "Women in the Future Priesthood Now -A 
who doesn't even know what we are all Call for Action." The response to the in­
about to say mass for us. Why am I getting vitation is overwhelming and even some 
~mgrJ all over again. when you know all bishops have pledged financial support ­
this'?" anonymously. Roman Catholic women seek 
ordination for the sake of justice and 
This militant new mood and experience of equality within the church, publicly 
anger among Christian women owes much rejecting their subsidiary roles in liturgy 
of its strength and insights to the wider and ministry. Those women, who as 
women's movement which began outside teachers, theologians, assistant pastors, 
religious educators, counselors or ad­
the churches. However, in the pas' few 
years it has gathered strength and gained ministratirs, actively participate in the ..!_ts own focus witin organized religion and t-<continued on pg. 4)...,. 

r ? 
: GRAND : : OPENING : : SPECIALS : 
:  AUDIO MAGNETICS  
e  C-120 Cassette  3-Pack  
•.  TDK C-60 Cassette  
3-Pack  Reg. $4.17  
e  CAPITOL 80-Min.  
•  8-Track Cartridge  
•  4-Pack  
:  Automotive Lock  
e  Mounl  Reg. $4.95  
e  KINGSWAY CR-15A  
e  Digilal Clock Radio  
e  Reg. $39.95  
e  RCA AC/DC AM/FM/  
e  PB-Hi/PB-Lo Radio  
•  Reg. $59.95  
:  Record Preener  
e  Cleaner  Reg. $2.98  
e e  Super Budget Stereo Headphones  
e  EMPIRE 66QE/X  
e  Stereo Phono  
$}288 • 


e Cartridge Was $59.95 : : SKANDA Deluxe Auto $988 e 
• Speakers e 
SJ40 •• • 
$ft07 e 
~ e e 

$300 e 
e 

$ft40•. ~ • 
$11§00 • 
~ • : 

$2488 e 
• SJ40 e 
e $111288 • 


~ e e 

•·. 
SAHSUI LM-110 6" 
2-Way 

Linear Motion( System 
Unique design en­ables this system to deliver performance which far surpasses other more expen­sive units! 
..,. $125.00 sea 
laYt$37 
.. 


EPII50 Ullra-Deluxe 8" 2-Way Syslem 
Thought by many to be EPI's flattest and most accurate model! Exclusive 1" in­verted dome air-spring tweeter for super­lative highs and dispersion. Special long­throw woofer puts out solid bass all the 
way ~own to 40Hz! .... $159•00Beautiful walnut 
veneer enclosure. 

$99 
Unbeatable for the price! 
AYt$11 

SANSOI 441 Deluxe Syslem-Under $250! 
Separately $410.70 save $161.70 
• 

Full-featured Sansui 441 Stereo FM/AM Receiver has advanced circuitry for sensa­tional performance, plus a precision tuning meter, tape monitor, switched output for two pairs of speakers and more! Complete BSR 2260 A/X Changer Package with base, dust cover and car­tridge. Two·wire range JF-6A 6" 2-Way Bookshelf Speaker Systems! 





NOW, WithOver60ATORES,We'rE 
PROJECTIone DR-II Semi-Aula Turntable Package 
Outstanding performance and 
features galore! Auto arm return! 
Belt-driven cast platter. Synchro­
nous motor. Low-capacitance 
cables! Anti-skating. Damped 
cueing. Detachable cartridge shell. 
Deluxe base, hinqed dust cover and stereo cartridge! 
Beg. $149.95 
SJ29 
DYHACO A-25 
10" 2-Way 
Best Buy! 
Was$92.50 
$§8 
save $34.50 
Extremely naturaL un­colored sound quality! Extraordinary transient response! Unusually deep bass capability! Ultra-small impedance variation! Unfatiguing! 

save $20.95 
DUAL 1226 Turntable 
Beg. $252.80 
save $93.92 

Performance and features similar to Dual's more expensive models but at a much lower price! Damped cueing and anti-skating compensation. Automatic or manual operation. Low-capacitance cables. Interchangeable'5pindles. Counterbal­anced, low-mass tubulnr tonearm. .Variable pitch for all speeds! !Includes base, dustcover, and Shure M91ED.I A supervafue! 


~­


Power-packed Pioneer SHARP s c
PIONEER SX-636 Super ~!:~~v~~er~?v!~~:c,~ lereo ompacl-Under $130! 
virtually every feature you'll ever need or
Syslem-Under $400! 

want! Two tuning meters, tape monitors,
Separately $591.65 

pairs of speaker out­puts! Front-panel mike and headphone jacks! Precision BSR 2260A/X


$399 
save $192.65 

Changer with base, dust 
cover and cartridge. 
Two extended-ranqe 
PROJECT/one JF-6A 6" 
2-Way Speaker System. 
Reg. $179.00 save $50 
SJ29 
Coll_lplete system! Includes stereo FM/AM 
rad1o, 8-track player. full-size BSR record 
c?anger with dust cover plus two air suspen­
Sion speaker systems! 

-j
! BringingYou Bigger-Than-EverValuesIn All Departments! 
BIGSTON AC/ DC Casselle Recorder 
Great for students. business and house persons! Built-in condenser mike. Auto shut-off. Auto level control. 3-digit counter. Push­button cassette ejection. Aux. input. 
Reg. $59.95 
save $20.07 
PIONEER CT-F2121 
Dolby Cassette


Reg. $200.00 
$179 

Deck 

Stereo Cas­sette Deck! Electronically-controlled DC motor. Permalloy head. Switchable bias 
save and EQ! Precision capstan. Extra-fast $21 tape advancing skip button. 
SALE ENDS SUNDAY, OCT. 5 
817 W. McKINLEY,  MISHAWAKA  (COLLEGE SQUARE)  
MON.-FRI. 10 to 9  SAT. 10to6  SUN. 12to5  
PHONE 256-1514  

FIRST COME, FIRST SERVE ~ QUANTil'IES LIMITED 
SKllNDll FM Converter. Tunes in your favorite FM broadcasts on your 
present_ AM $2488 
carrad1o! Installs easily. _ 
SKANDA 666 Cassette Player. Pre­cision sliding volume. balance and tone Reg. $49.95 controls. Eject and fast forward buttons._Auto­stop! A wmner!

$3988 
save $10.07 
SKANDA 555 8-Tr. Slide controls. Illuminated track in-Reg. $39.95 dicators. Ample clean power. Mounts simply

$2988

under the dash! save $10.07 
MEDALLION AMI FMI Cassette. A complete auto entertainment center. Reg. $129.95 Mounts in or under

$J0995

save $20 dash! 
• 

Secret files are kept on Hoosiers 
Thunct.y, October 2, lt75 Thunday, October 1., ,.,,~
the observer
8 


r 
INDIANAPOLIS <AP) -Se cret criminal intelligence files based on tips, police investiga­tions and reports from infor­

•' 
maots are maintained on many Hoosiers by city, county and state police, the Governor's 

... Privacy Commission learned Wednesday. Information contained in the files often is available to other police agencies, prosecutors and the courts. But the files are kept secret from the public and even from the subjects of the reports. By contrast. a new federal privacy act requires federal law en­forcement agencies such as the FBI and CIA to allow anyone on whom they have compiled a dossier to inspect his own in­telligence file, with a few ex­ceptions. Wednesday's testimony came at a public hearing on privacy in law enforcement. The intelligence files general­ly are compiled on persons who. although not subject to ar­rest, are considered likely to commit a crime. Information ranges from citizen tips to re­
• 

ports from u-nderworld infor­mants, Speedway Police Chief 
Robert  Copeland, president  of  
the  Indiana  Association  of  
Chiefs of Police,  said.  
He said  the  files  are  used  by  

police to find suspects during criminal investigations. 
According to Copeland, local police and county law enforce­ment agencies generally keep crimes" before such informa­tion is placed in a state police intelligence file, he said. "There has to be a suspiCion that they're going to be in­volved in criminal activity."
Copeland said virtually all the municipal police depart­ments in Indiana maintain in­
telligence files. Richard Her­ger. executive director of the Indiana Sheriff's Association, 
only information directly re-. said the large county depart­lated to criminal activity. How-ments and some of the smaller ever. local officials do collect ones also collect such informa­the names of persons within their jurisdictions who belong 
~ security group headed by
Gll•cksteln e en s 
·st'cretary of State Henry
Kissinger. Marchetti said that while Kissinger was denying all l Clesknowledge of ~lA activity ~n Chile,
empl0 Yment P0 1 
he was act1vely plannmg the 
(continued from page 1) 
Construction unions, Glickstein argued, are expected to increase the pool of qualified minority craftsmen through apprenticeship programs. 
"Similarly," he stated, "universities that desire to share in the billions of dollars of Federal contract awards should be ex­pected to bear responsibility for increasing the pool of qualified minority and female academics." 
RPquirem£"nt for contracts 
Burtchaell strongly criticized the inclusion of the affirmative action regulations as requirements for federal contractors. 
"As matters now stand," Burt­chaell stated, "in order to receive or administer federal or state funds, an individual or an organization can be required and sometimes is required to forfeit rights otherwise guaranteed to it." 
"Fr. Burtchaell's conception of the requirements of the law are inaccurate," Glickstein ~aid yesterday. "The universities are not asked for anything that is not already required under the Equal Employment Opportunity measures <Title 7) of 1964. 
"The government can't withold a contract arbitrarily or capriciously," he said. 
"In the many instances in which universities have failed to meet their goals, whether in good faith or bad, HEW has been tolerant to the point of indifference," Glickstein said. 
Glickstein criticized the governeent for "backing down, failing to enforce the law. It's like saying 'boo' to the Cowardly Lion in the Wizard of Oz," he said. 
In his testimony at the Labor Department hearing yesterday, Burtchaell noted that Notre Dame had been threatened with loss of a federal research contract because its Affirmative Action Program had not been evaluated by the June 30 deadline. 
ND plan submitted late 
Notre Dame didn't submit its plan until April," Glickstein said. "How did they think it would be reviewed in time?" 
"That plan was submitted to the adminstration by the revision committee in July 1974," Glickstein stated. "Why did they fool around so long? It took them almost a year to send it in. That gives some indication of the priority Affirmative Action is given here," he said. 

Glickstein served as a member of the committee that reviewed and revised the University's Af­firmative Action Program for 1975. 
The program was originally in­stituted in 1971. 
"It sounds nice," Glickstein said, "but it needs commitment. There have been a lot of com­plaints that the program has not been adequately carried out." 

"The recruiting efforts of the departments have been disap­pointing," Glickstein stated, "and it hasn't really been their fault. A successful Affirmative Action Program must be adequately financed. It costs money to make 
long di_stance phone calls and invite prospective candidates visit campus," he noted.  to to  
Full-time program  

"Notre Dame needs a full-time Affirmative Action Officer with assistants and an adequate budget," said Glickstein. He noted that the officials currently in charge of the program have many other duties to per­form. "Some one has to deal with this on a day-to-day basis," he stated. The burden is unreasonable for someone who must be busy with other things." 
A major problem with the achievement of Affirmative Action goals is the current job situation, Glickstein admitted. 
"We try to determine our goals on the basis of expected openings," Glickstein noted. The com­paratively low rate of turn-over will limit the number of openings available. 
"If there won't be any openings then the goal will have to be zero," Glickstein stated. 

Glickstein told the Labor Department Committee that "any changes that are to be made af­fecting university affirmative action programs ought to be in the 
direction of extending and strengthening enforcement measures." 
Glickstein served as General Counsel and Staff Director of the 
U.S. Commission of Civil Rights from 1965-71. He czme to Notre Dame in 1973 to serve as director of the Center for Civil Rights and adjunct professor in the law school. He will begin teaching at Howard Law 'SchMl" itr january. 

lion. we updated it with new infor­
Kenny said state police began mation," he said, and replaced collecting intelligence informa­it in the files. tion in 1968, during the height "We're going to come up with of the Vietnam antiwar protests a purge criteria where it <pur­and student demonstrations. ges l will be done routinely," he 
At that time, he said, all in­said. formation received was put on Kenny acknowledged secret file. "Back. in the beginning, intelligence files are a con­everything did go into the file," troversial area. "But we are he said. "But in January we aware of our responsibility to purged everything back to dtizens to protect their priva­1973." cy," he said. "We won't do 
"But if there was anything away with it. It is a vital com­that still had a current threat, l?onent to law enforcement." 
to private groups or radical or­ganizations such as the Ku 
Marchetti stresses need Klux Klan and forward them h~ the state police and federal au­thorities. he said. 
for stricter CIA controis 
State Police Capt. Stan Ken­ny, commander of the investi­(continued from page 1) gation division, said not all in­foreign affairs. Operations in formation provided is placed in Chile. Vietnam and Greece were intelligence files. He said the under the auspices of this reports are investigated for department. according to Mar­possible criminal links and dis­chetti. carded if none are found. 
Although the President is 

"There was to be a definite directly in charge of the hint that the person is strongly· options many clandestine suspected of being involved tn decisions are often made up by a
d d 

THURSDAY 

elandestine operations should 

ONLY

rl'main as the CIA but with strict overseeing," he recommended. 

ALL SEATS $1
However, Marchetti stressed this reform must happen quickly. 

LAST NIGHT 

"This air of secrecy the CIA 
with student I. D.
maintains is getting us into bad situations. Vietnam was a damn disgrace. It was a mess we never should've gotten into and the CIA played a major part in getting us involved there," he pointed out. 


the observer 

Ni~ht Editor .. Val Zurblis A~~istant Night Editor .. Bob Bri!'lk Layout Staff--Gail Delasno, Hop..~ Mayer, John Calcutt Jim Stevens Day Editor --Mary Reher Copy Reader .. Don Reimer Features .. Jennifer Ryder, Tom O'Neil Sports -· Tom Kruczek Typists .. Neil Viii, Karen Hinks, Terri Harlan, Bob Steinmetz, Mary McCarthy, Bill Heyelman Compugraphic -· Carolina (also Editor in Charge of the Restoration of the Confederacy) Night Controller --Dave Rust 

~~~.f-IoLyGJt;\IL 
~~  6:30  
;~~M CINEMA 5  9 : 3 0  
Pt.US  

\VHERE'S POPPA 
STARRING 
GEORGE SEGAL RUTH GORDO~ 
R 




Thursday, October 2, 1975 
the observer 9 
l


For campaign event : 
l 
Ford's hotel examined by secret service 
NEWARK, N.J. <AP> -Se­cret Service agents are roam­ing Hotel Robert Treat, a once­eiegant structure across from a park where drug addicts now meet and around the corner from where gangster Dutch Schultz was murdered. 
It's the hotel President Ford is scheduled to visit on Satur­what they're doing, now many there are, where they're going, what they're looking for nothing. I can't say a thing,"said Jerome S. Ster­nstein. vice president and gen­eral manager of the hotel, when asked about the agents. 

The White House announced Last week the President had cut groups to discuss the day's work. On Tuesday, a group of eight met in the lobby, checked a map of the city and left in groups of twos and threes. 
After being built in 1915, the 14-story hotel attracted celebri­ties from all walks of life, in­cluding gangsters such as Schultz. 
, Many of the hotel's room~ are : also has been the scene of pro­rented year-round to pensiOners 1 test rallies by radical groups. and disabled veterans. Employes were informed of 
Named after the city's found-the planned visit at a meeting er, the hotel is situated across three weeks ago. Since the at­the street from Military Park, tempts on Ford's life informa­an after-dark gathering place 1 tion ·around the Rob~rt Treat 

day for a $1,000-per-person cocktail hour and a $lOO-per­plate dinner sponsored by the State Hepublican Committee. 
But 20 Secret Service agents and communications experts chl'cked into the hotel over the wPekend and began examining the 440-room building, its per­sonnel and nearby rooftops. 
''I'm not going to tell you back his October schedule and said it no longer would an· nounce his travel plans until fi­nalized. Saturday's visit wasn't announced until Tuesday. The change came after two assassi­nation attempts on Ford's life. 

The federal officials have gathered each day in the ho­tel's coffee shop for breakfast. From there they broke into 
Schultz, a prohibition-era beer baron and numbers racket kingpin, was gunned down with three other hoodlums in the Palace Chop House, while a resident at the hotel in 1935. The Chop House building still stands but is now a cleaners. 
On weekends, the hotel's bar and restaurants are usually closed and the area is deserted. 

Previous!y ·confidential 
Ford releases secret papers 
WASHINGTON (AP) -~ Pres­ident Ford on Wednesday par­tially rescinded his ban prohib­iting federal agencies from giv­ing any classified information 
to  the  House  Intelligence  Com­ 
Illittee.  
Ford  kept  intact  some  re­ 

strictions blocking the com­mittee's access to highly sensi­tive material and reached a compromise with the panel on the public release of secret documents. 
Chairan Otis G. Pike, D-N.Y., said later that "the order with­holding the information has been rescinded and the infor­mation is flowing." Stacks of secret documents were deliv­ered in midafternoon. 
The White House said Ford instructed agencies to turn over documents to the committee under terms spelled out in a letter to the committee from Central Intelligence Director William E. Colby. 
"Not all classified material will be delivered," said assist­ant White House press secre­tary Bill Roberts. "Very sensi­tive material will not be deliv­ered." 
Colby spelled out the terms in a letter accompanying 711 pages of documents subpoenaed by the committee two weeks ago. The documents relate to the 1968 Vietnam Tet offensive. About 50 words were excised from the papers. Colby said the documents were being deliv­ered on the condition that the committee promise not to re­lease anything the President certified "would be detrimental to the na tiona! security if dis­The agreement appeared to closed." unless the panel first Pnd the committee's fight with 

Ford over access to secretobtained a court order. 
docunwnts. but it did not affectThe committee earlier de­a separate dispute with Secre­
cided to give the intelligence 
tary of State Henry A. Kissin­agencies 24. hours' notice before 
ger.

Yot ing on publicly releasing se­eret material. Kissinger has issued a policy order prohibiting lower-level of-
Setting a precedent tor other ficials from testifying before intelligence agencies, Colby re-the committee on recommenda­fused to turn over 10 phrases lions concerning maJ·or U.S. 
that "pinpoint the identity of in-policy decisions.
dividuals" and two that he said "would violate an under-In the House, meanwhile, an standing with a foreign govern-effort to publicly reveal CIA ment that its cooperation will funding was rejected by a vote not be disclosed." of 267 to 147. 
. •t b. th I
F d

Or V-151 S 
OMAHA, Neb. (AP) -Presi­dent Ford on Wednesday made the first trip of his presidency to the city of his birth, and walked along the edge of an en­thusiastic crowd for the first tinw since a shot was fired at him nine days earlier. 
At one point, the crowd pressed forward and several people fell through the restrain­ing rope. 
Secret Service agents quickly shielded the President from the erowd at Offutt Air Force Base. But there, was no security prob­lem and Ford said to several who had fal1en down: "Are you all right?" 
Ford's arrival from Chicago marked his first hand-shaking foray since a shot was fired at him outside a San Francisco hotel. However, the crowd was 
considered secure since all 
and localities. 

• I • ' • ' ' '-" " ' • •. ' • I . . . ,1 '
·. ~ \ '
.

' . -... . . ..... " . 'It --" • " ' , -"! ' .. • ·' .... ·' ~· .• \t ~' -' • 




REGAL 
LOUNGE & LANES 
BAND THIS WEEKEND 

''THIS END UP'' 
OPEN BOWLING THIS SAT. & SUN. AFTER 8:30 P.M. 
1121 WEST 8th ST. -MISHAWAKA 
2 t -SA-IN-T­
ff DEPT. OF MUSIC ,' 
PRESENTS fRIDAY-'6 
f OCTOBER 8:00 pm 6
4
f pARIS iEATRE '
LITTLE 


I ROBERT JAMES :
1r P aCe f 1900 PIANO MUSIC OF DEBUSSY 
W('re either military personnel, civilian employes or their fami­lies at the headquarters of the Strategic Air Command. 
Ford also spoke briefly to the erowd estimated by base offi­cials at about 2,000, praising the work of 1he base and de­daring it was good to be in Ne­braska "where I was born". He then headed downtown for a television interview and a speech. 
In downtown Omaha crowd was kept across ~~= street from the President. 
Earlier, Ford addressed 33 small-town and suburban may­ors in Skokie, Ill., a Chicago suburb. He called on them to lobby Congress for an extension of federal revenue sharing. He said it would be "catastrophic" to end a program that had pro­
vided $20 billion to 39,000 states 
I No udmission charge I 
SATURDAY OCTOBER 5-8:00pm f STAPLETON LOUNGE-LE MANS HAll f 
'




:ANO~V~fJ~gH MUSIC : 
tMUSIC FOR VOICES, PIANO, AND HARP ftFeaturing performers in costumes of the ffperiod and an intermission with French t1pastries tea and coffee! t 
1 · Admission: One dollar 1 t(For ticket reservations please call I 
~~~~~~~~~~~2~~~L-~ 





FrAT 

II 
W~ lillY S 
HAPPY HOUR DAILY 4 -7 
Free cheese and crackers 
Monday -Football Night GIANT 7' SCREEN 
Tuesday -Free Movies 9:00 
Wednesday -Ladies' Night 
{complete ·disco format) 
SATURDAY FOOTBALL SPECIAL 
open at 9:00 a.m. 
Large Sausage Pizza $2.88 
carry out 277-0570 
2046 South Bend Ave. 
., 


1

1Q the observer Thur~day,October2, 1975 
Additional Hearst charges to beconsidered 
.. STARTS FRI. FORUM II ..

iSee how Carl and Bob broke the Watergate story a i Find out how Jack Anderson gets his scoops 3
. ... .. ,.

! Learn the basics of news reporting i 
* * 
. * 7 8 * * 

! TONIGHT -p.m. ! 
* *
i At the Observer office 1
* • 
• "·•, ~£• c '"'t'""t.' ~·" ~''="""~""'IJ'·'-' 
BOX OFFICE OPEN
* * 
: l\lEW REPORTERS ARE URGED TO ATTEND! 
MON. thru FRI. 6:30 P.M. 
~fr**************** **********~-~~~-~.~~!!~~~.~.'!!.~~!':~~..~~M!". ~~~~!!!!.~ft~.~.ff.~!c.<lf*~'!t~·!. .-,.,,..,sA•T•...an""'d..s""u•N~.al"'!t""l,..:~......,...,.,....
~ .~ •. ,............,..,-•;•.·•·"·&·'·-' ~a·.,-.,-.,~·t~AI#4.1I•• .. • ..,.,._.,._.,. ~·
. -..4#-~ 
SAN FRANCISCO <AP) Top-level government prose­cutors huddled around a confer­ence table Wednesday to con­sider additional charges against Patricia Hearst and her Sym­
bionese Liberation Army  asso­ 
Ciates.  
"\LA  members  have  been  

\ir. ·ed to a number of violent en 1es in the Bay area, in­duo.ng two bank robberies and a number of terrorist bomb­ings. Prosecutors have said Ihey expect additional charges stemming from some of those incidents. 
The meeting was hosted by 
U.S. Atty. James L. Browning Jr. of San Francisco and in­eluded U.S. Atty. Dwayne Keyes of Sacramento, Califor­nia Atty. Gen. Evelle Younger and district attorneys from San Francisco. Los Angeles, Sacra-

For •75 convention 

Labor preparing strategy 
SAN FRANCISCO <AP) phy said Wednesday. Labor leaders are mapping Murphy, legislative director strategy this week for next of the Service Employes Inter­vear's Democratic National national Union and a key figure Convention in hopes of having a in COPE, the AFL-CIO's Com­
voice in the party's platform mittee on Political Education, and the selection of its presi­said this is in line "with dential candidate. Meany's mandate to put togeth­"I'm already telling my guys er slates of delegates." to get on the delegate slates, AFL-CIO President George and get going," Richard Mur-Meany has said the labor feder-
Bus boycott closes plant 

LOUISVILLE, Ky. <AP) ­An anti-busing boycott Wednes­day succeeded in closing one 
· · d t d tt' t
maJor m us ry an cu mg a ­tendance in half at Jefferson County high schools, but no one was sure who organized the 
protest. 
The Ford Motor Co. assembly plant closed because too few workers showed up to operate 

J the plant, officials said, but 
would give no figures. How-

J ever. other major industries re­
) ported normal absenteeism 
rates. School officials said spot checks showed an apparent av-

l 1 
erage of nearly 60 per cent ab­senteeism in county high schools. and not much better in l'lementary and middle schools. 
Dave Espin, a_ssistant super­intendent for personnel, said only 175 students showed up out of 2,124 registered at Fairdale High School. 
Espin said the absentee rate \\'as highest in the southern and 

..**********************************************************************• 




J Observer Reporters: i 
: COME to i i* The First Workshop of the Year i• 
* * 
menlo and Alameda counties. 
They discussed the massive evidence obtained through searches of the San Francisco houses where the newspaper heiress and her SLA compan­ions William and Emily Harris were arrested Sept. 18. 
Robert L. Stevenson of the lJ .S. attorney's office said the prosecutors met to "coordinate and exchange information on the Patricia Hearst case and on other cases of concern to them." He declined to specify 
which other cases he referred  
to.  
"Without  regard  to  who  

might be charged, I think it is probably inevitable that addi­tional charges will be filed in ,·arious jurisdictions, and that of course is what this meeting is about," said Younger, who left the meeting after 15 min-
southwestern parts of the coun­ty. where anti-busing sentiment is strongest, but he said there were also ·•a large number of kids absent" in the eastern por­tion of the county. 
"(Today's absenteeism) will <.'ost more than $100,000 in state aid... Espin said. "This loss will be reflected next year <in) the money available for books and supplies." 
~<:spin said 1,200 students were absent at Moore High School. out of 2,475 registered and 1,250 absent at Butler out of 2.:wo. 
Sonw 151 of the system's 558 bus drivers did not show up for work Wednesday. School Supt. r:rnest C. Grayson reported Tuesday that at least 50 drivers 
claimed  they  would  not  work  
because  they  had  been  threat- 
t•ned.  
School  officials  said  absences  

among tt>achers seemed to be light. 
utes because of prior com­mitments. 
Younger said prosecutors would discuss a Sacramento savings and loan robbery and a bank holdup in nearby Carmi­chael, in which a woman was killed. Sacramento authorities said earlier this week they were investigating the holdups for possible SLA links. 
The hideouts of Miss Hearst and the Harrises yielded 17 guns and thousands of rounds of ammunition, explosives, a ski mask similar to one used in the Carmichael robbery, phony identification and literature of the .New World Liberation Front. a group closely associ­ated with the SLA. 
Before the meeting began, Stevenson said the government 
a tion will take no official part in the delegate selection proc­ess. but he is encouraging un­ions to get involved individually so that labor could be a potent political force in the event the convention is deadlocked and forced to seek a compromise candidate. 
Interviews with several of la­bor's political strategists here for the federation's national convention, which opens Thurs­day. made it clear they are anxious to avoid a repeat of 1972, when labor split over the 
· candidacy of Sen. George McGovern. 
These officials sat·d that wht'le there is no consensus yet among union leaders on a par­ticular candidate, they beJieve the Democrats will be able to produce a nominee acceptable to all segments of the labor 
movement. 
Sen. Bennett Johnston of Louisiana. chairman of the Demcratic Senatorial .Cam­paign Committee, told COPE officials earlier this week that the party "learned how depend­ent we are on vou." 
The new campaign finance law for federal elections limits the amount of political contri­butions but leaves unions free to use treasury funds to inform their members, finance get-out­the-vote drives and pay salaries of union personnel doing politi­cal work, provided thev are un­der union control. 
had received intelligence re­also said U.S. marshals steppedports that Black Muslims ex-
up security after learning of pressed interest in the floor the Black Muslims' interest. plan of the Stanford University Miss Hearst has been under­
Medical Center, where Miss going the testing by court-ap-Hearst underwent medical and 
pointed doctors because her at­
psychiatric exams earlier this 
torneys say she is too fragile toweek. 
be cross-examined at a bail
"We have no knowledge of 
hearing about her affidavit
why the interest was ex­swearing the SLA tortured and
pressed," Stevenson said. He 
brainwashed her. 
Augusta receives party permission 
b~ Sut' Cart'y Staff Ht'porter 

Fifty-five St. Mary's seniors 
have received special permission 
from the SMC Office of Student A­
fairs to hold a party in Augusta 
Hall this weekend. 
According to Assistant to the 
Vice-President of Student Affairs 
Stevie Wernig, the authorizaton is 
necessary because of an ordinance 
at St. Mary's prohibiting alcohol on 
l'ampus without special per­
mission. 
The students living in Augusta 
had petitioned for the party on the 
grounds that all of the residents 
are seniors and 21 years of age. 
Ann Vandemotter, Augusta Hall 
resident and an organizer of the 
party. noted, "There was a 
problem with other parties on 
campus last weekend. Apparently 
there's some confusion as to the 
rules at Notre Dame applying to 
St. Mary's also--that's not the 
l'ase." 
Notre Dame Dean of Students 
James Roemer has stated that 
rules for alcohol and parties at 
Notre Dame arero be left up to the 
discretion of hall staffs. 
The St. Mary's Student Affairs 
guidelines. on the other hand, 
Students urged 
to join Manasa 
There will be a meeting for all members and prospective members of Manasa, the campus mental health association, at the Northern Indiana Children's Hospital at 8:00 tonight. 
The meeting will feature an brientation tour of NISH and sign­ups for volunteers. Any members who have attended a previous nweting at NISH this year need not attend. All students interested in working with mentally retarded children are invited to attend. For further information please call Ed Tan (1462) . 
apply uniformly to the whole campus. 
The Augusta residents will be required to submit a plan for the party to the Office of Student Af­fairs. They will be expected to detail methods for organizing and limiting the gathering. 
"We have to insure that everybody there is 21 and that the party will be controJled," Van­demotter said. "Since the other half of Augusta Hall is occupied by nuns, we will have to be especially l'Oncerned abut limiting the part-Y." · Augusta is an experimental hall which houses only seniors. There are no resident assistants or other hall staff. but Vandemotter acknowledged, "We have the same mles as the rest of the " 


THE POSTER PLACE 
100 11 x17 POSTERS only $10.00 
INSTY 

Thunday,October2, 1975 the observer 1 1 ~ 
1 
I 
I I

Terrorists continue to defy Franco's regime 
----------~~~~~~~-------------­
MADRID, Spain <AP> Arms outstretched in the Fas­l'ist salute, hundreds of thou­sands of Spaniards massed in tribute Wednesday to Gen. Francisco Franco. But terror­ists killed three more police­men in bloody defiance of his authoritarian regime. 
Franco. celebrating the 39th nnniversary of the start of the civil war that brought him to power. accused the rest of Eu­rope of mounting a "leftist ... urday executions. eonspiracy" against his govern­A 22-year-old policeman died ment in the wake of the firing instantly, two died in hospitalssquad executions of five men of their wounds, and a fourth eonvicted of killing police. was seriously wounded. The 

Hours before the crowd was 
new attacks raised to 22 the declaring that "a united Spain number of policemen killed in 
wi II never be vanquished," gun­political violence since January nwn struck in three areas of 1974. Fourteen civilians died in l\ladrid. The separate attacks the same period. 
eame within five minutes of 
Security forces launched a t>ach other. police said, four 
massive hunt for the killers, days to the ·hour after the Sat-
throwing madblocks around the 
3 more policemen killed 
State cops to increase patrols 
INDIANAPOLIS  <AP>  
State  police  patrols  will  be  
beefed  up  on  virtually  the  en­ 

tire Indiana interstate highway network to crack down on speeders and other traffic \'iolators. 
The 45-day experimental pro­~ram. starting Oct. 17, covers II strategic locations around the state, including all the in­terstates except 1-74. 
The program. financed with a $250,000 federal traffic safety ~rant. was announced by a spokesman for Gov. Otis R. Bowen on Wednesday. 
James T. Smith, Bowen's ex­l'cutive assistant, said state po­lice will be on special lookout for flagrant violators. 
Violations of the 55 mile per hour speed limit are getting 

"fairly bad" on interstates, al­state line and in the Richmond though they generally have not area, I-65 from Seymour to the been high-accident areas, Smith Kentucky state line, 1-65 near said. Indiana 46 and Columbus, U.S. :n near Indiana 14 and Roches­
The program will put an av­ter and U.S. 41 near the Gib­Prage of 50 addlitional troopers son-Vanderburgh County line. 
on the highways during day­
Interstate 465 around In­
light hours. Smith said the 
dianapolis is the other target
troopers will work overtime on 
area.

what would otherwise be a day 
In a statement released
off once a week and will be through his office, Bowen said
paid on a straight time basis­if the program proves success­an average of $51. 
ful. it will be reinstated during 
Highways to get special pa­the spring driving months. trols will involve mainly 25-"In the past two years, we mile stretches of Interstate 65 have had excellent results in re­in the Lake County area, 1-65 ducing traffic deaths," Bowen north of Marion County, Inter­said. "We want to cut the toll state 69 in northeastern In­even further and we intend to diana. I-69 near Indiana 18 and secure the fullest possible en­l\larion. Interstate 70 from forcenwnt of the speed limit in 
Crawfordsville to the Illinois the process of doing so." 
Professor acquires Portugese position 
Dr. Henry Hare Carter, 1956 until his retirement in 1970. National Library in Vienna. professor emeritus of modern and Earlier. he had served on the
A specialist in medieval Por­
l'lassical languages at the tuguese language and literature, faculty of several universities in l'niversity of Notre· Dame has Carter's Ia test publication is a this country and Brazil. He was a been ('lected corresponding paleographical edition of the Old commander in the U.S. Navy nH•mber of the Academy of Portuguese Book of Joseph of during World War II, assigned to Sl'iences in Lisbon. Portugal. Arimathea, an Arthurian-Grail the flag secretary and chief of staff 
lie was named corresponding codex of the 13th Century. For the of the lOth Naval District, with mt>mber of the Brazilian Academy last four vears he has been special responsibilities to the of philology in 1971. working o~ a paleographical Brazilian Navy. 
<'dition of the Old Portuguese Carter recently returned to his 
Carl('!' was a professor of 

codex of the Quest of the Holy residence on te Notre Dame 
Spanish.French. Italian and 
(;rail. t:Hh Century, located in the campus after an extended visit to Portuguese <at Notre Dame from . . f h A . Portugal.Spain and France
manuscnpt sectiOn o t e ustnan 
l'ity and checking all traffic. 
bor organization had issued or­
From the balcony of the Na­
ders for members to appear,tional Palace, Franco thanked 
and the mayor had also put out the crowd thronging the Plaza the word. Madrid has a popu­de Oriente for "serene and vir­lation :u million. ile demonstration of support," 
As Franco spoke, gangswhich he said made "amends 
roamed downtown Madrid
for the attacks abroad" on 
threatening foreigners.
Spa in and Spanish property. Two photographers workmg
Visibly moved by the show of for The Associated Press were
support. the 82-year-old gener­pistol-whipped by militants of
alissimo spoke for five minutes, 
the right-wing organization
hut his words were drowned in 
"Guerrillas of Christ the King."
the crowd singing the Falange One was told: "We lost fouranthem. "Face to the Sun." 
this morning." an apparent ref­
According to the official text, l'rence to the killing of the po­Franco told the crowd the in­lice. "and the foreign press isternational outcry over the exe­
to blame."
cutions "shows, once more, just what we can expect from cer­1-,ranco supporters chased tain corrupt countries now giv­two youths up a side street ing perfect proof of their con­after spotting a German flag on stant politicking against us." their backpack. An AP reporter His wife stood on his left and who saw the incident said the Prince Juan Carlos, the heir­Spaniards surrounded and beat designate, on the right. the two boys until police inter­
,·ened.

W~men in the plaza em­braced policemen, some of 
Shops in the area dropped
whom wept as the demonstra­their shutters. Armed policetion also became a show of sup­stood by in truckloads and pa­port for them. 
troled every street. Police heli­
The government claimed one l'opters flew overhead. Foreign million persons massed in the t•mbassies remained open, but plaza. but newsmen and pho­were heavily guarded by as­tographers estimated the crowd sault forces armed with tear at about 300,000. The Madrid la-gas and submachine guns. 
(;eorgia Tech professor to give che~nist·ry talks 
The 1975 winner of the American Speaking in room 123 of 
C'hemicaiSocietyAward of Creative Nieuwland Science Hall, House Hesearch in Synthetic Organic will discuss "Recent Studies ofthe Chemistry wi[ deliver three Peter Properties and Synthetic Uses of 
c. Heilly lectures in chemistry at Enolate Anions" at 4:30 p.m. th t lniversity of Notre Dame l\londay <Oct. 6), "Some Cyclizast-Odober 6. 8 and 10. on Heactions That Involve Free­
radical Intermediates" at 4:30 
_Dr. Ht>rbert 0. House, ~eydel-p.m. Wednesday <Oct. 8), and "A \\ oo}ley ~rofes~or of Chemistry at Study of Some Organic Reactions the<~eorgiainstitute of :rechn~logy, That Involve and Electron­IS widely ~nown for hts studies of transfer Step" at 4:00 p.m. Friday new ?r 1mp:oved methods for tOct. lOl. · 
orgamc chemistry· The Heilly lecture series honors A member of the board of direct-the memory of the late In­ors of Or~anic Ht'actions, he was dianapolis industrialist Peter C. on the faculty of the Massachusetts Heilly. and is sponsored by thE' Institute of Technology from 1953 Department of Chemistry and the to 1971 before moving to Georgia College of Science. The lectures n•ch. are free and open to the public. 
WANTED -----­Ne-ed 14 So. Cal. tix's. price. Mary, 272-4733, after 5  
p.m. NPed ride to Milwaukee Oct. 3 or 4. Help with gas. Mark 1162.  
Need 2 Michigan State GA tix. ?.77 -0088 after 6 pm. Need , ide to St. Louis weekend of  


Call 
Oct. 11-12. Call Cathy, 4436. 




CLASSIFIED ADS 
Nt'e-d two GA ticke-ts to Mich. State. Call 7471. 
Wanted: 2 GA tickets for Ga. Tch. Will pay$. Help! Call Mary, 5135. 
Wanted: 2 or 4 MSU GA tix. Call Drew, 3272. 
Nt'eded: 2 GA usc tickets. Call Mike. 6939. 
NPed 3 MSU GA tix's. Call 8772. 
Need 2 GAMSU tickets. Call Alice. 5494. 
Students earn while you learn part. time contact work afford extra in comf', For appointment, 684-4396 
--· 

Nf'ed 2 Mich. State tix's. Call 1630. 
-

Nt>E'd 5 USC tickets and 1 MSU. Mary 
1~85. 

-Nt>ed onE' GA Mich. State football t. icket. Call Jean, 5486. 
DPsperately neE'd 2 GA Mich. State tickE'ts. Call Mike or Ann after 6 pm at 272 5884. 
WantE'd: 2 usc tickets. 7812. 
Need: 4 GA tickets for Michigan State. Call Joe at 287-5113. 
NeE'd 2 GA tickets for MSU. Call Mike, after 6 pm, 288-0088. 
DesperatPly nel"d two Southern Cal. tix's. Call Bob 3665. 
WANTED: 1Mich. State ticket and 3 So. Cal tickets. Call Dan 1219. 
Need two So. Cal. tix,s. Call Murph 287-0742. 
Need 4 MSU fiX'S Call Maurice 3382. 
Nt'e-d two tix to Mich State-. Will pay. Call 291-3075 before noon or after 6 pm. 
Have 4USC tix's. Want to trade for 4 MSU fix's. Please call 5280. 
Nt'ed MSU ticket. Will pay$$$. Call Paul Privitera, 289~8113. 
Need part. time work? Call preferable, 277-1221. 
Nt'ed 2 Be-ach Boy tix's. Call Marth­
a, 8130 or 1715. 
Will sell 2 MSU fix's if I find ride to Purdue Oct. 4. Call Marti 4569. 
NPed 6 MSU GA tix's. Call ill. 8686 
NPed 4 GA MSU tickets. Call Jim, 277·0067. 
Need 2 MSU tix's. Call 288~ 1048. 
Mich. State Tix's NE'E'ded. 1 GA or Studl:?nt. CharliE' 8609. 
Need 4 Beach Boy tix's. Kim, 272· 9566. 
3 GA tickE'ts needed for Mich. StatE' game. Call 288-3073. 
Want€'(~: 4 General Admission tix's to any home gamE'. Bob D. 232~0550. 
"Gay Guide-to Notre-Dame-South For Sale: 6th row~floor seats for Rod Bend.'' $1.00, at Pandora's or write Stewart. Call 272-5133. GSND, Box 206, Notre Dame. 
For Sale: Two Rod Stewart Tix's. Lower Arena AT COST. Call Bob,MEN!!WOMEN!! JOBS ON 
272-1400.

SHIPS!! American. Foreign~ No Pxperience required. Excellent pay. 
LOST & FOUND
Worldwide travel. Summer job or career. Send $3.00 for information. 
-·-·--­

SEAFAX, Dept. E~1, Box 2049, Port LOST: A lighter with map of Ger.
Angeles, Washington 98362. 
many nPar Library. Call Mark, 289­8924.
Sunflower Music Shop. Vintagestringed instruments. Expert ­
Lost: Eyeglasses. Lost outsiderepair. Books, records, arid ac-stadium after Northwestern game.
cessorties. 632 Portage Ave. 
Call 6845, Ask for Ellie. 
-

Sport Parachuting Lessons. Learn Gray kitten found outsid ....e Man•the safe way. 6~8 hrs. Instruction. 
Friday night. If you O\ ·,r knov.
Jump the same day. Contact John who doPs, please call 6~
Bronson 616-782~3500 or Larry Enyeart. 219-533-8219. 
.ost: Glasses-pink tram· ith pin lenses. Rf'ward. Phone
FOR SALE 
-

'-ost: 1 tan cardigan. L Of'tWe!
For salE': 1971 Gremlin-X, Big-6, 1ootball stadium and Stick 20 mpg, Sharp. 
c.~ 

· · ShaughnessE'y Hall. ISe 
--·-·------­
··bby, 8152.
For Sale: 1971 Gremlin· X, Big-6,Stick, 20 mpg, Sharp. 283~3093 PERSONAL ~ -­
·~--~ 
~ty,

For Sale: Stereo, Sony HP610A. 20 antE'd: ME't LE'Mans • ~--Cc· 
watts rms dual turntable, 12" 2W 'Cticut blonde, blUE' E.'S, v• 
speakers. $350, Paul 8131. t renarian, skier, mild J::• ·umoni. 
~SVP. Tom, 18' For SalE': 10 speed bike, $50. Call Paul or Larry, 3207. .\~IKE: IN LIKE Flynn, huh? 
Congratulatons!! For Sale: 2 GA MSU tickets. Call Ma 
Mike 3251. .. 
Turkey,

Quality StE'reo components at 20-40
Need 3 GA or student Mich. State How's it feE'I to have your own: 
percent savings. RMS Audio. 321 S.
tix's badly. Call Ellen, 3468. personal?
Main. 288~1681, 12-7 pm. 
Ms. Wanted: 2 GA Mich. State tix's. 233-P.S. Now tell us the real story about 
For Sale: 2 Rod Stewart Tickets.
5373. your nicknC"rne.
Row 4, SPction B. Call Dave, 287­2219.
NOTICES Six concert package, South Be,cl
Quick Loans. Morrissey Loan Fund. FOR RENT Symphony, student prices $10. sa,Up to $150. 30 days, 1 percent in-and $6. Available at Student Unicr j
Students or faculty, 5 rms, furnished 
terPst. Basement of LaFortune. M. Ticket Office, Monday thru Friday I
private, utilitii"S furnished. SPcurity deposit, near campus. 1002 Campeau BEST PRICES IN TOWN!!! Jen. 
F, 11:15-12:15. 
St. Call 234-7925. . niter's, 119 w. Colfax. 11:00-5:30. Mon-Sat. 
•· 
~? ~he observer 




BaSeball playoffs begin Saturday 

hy Hkh Odioso 
Pulses are beginning to quicken for manv across the Notre Dame campus· as baseball's playoffs draw n('arer. Supporters of many teams.most notablv the Dodgers, 
. Cardinals. and of course those t.'ternal dreamers, the Yankees. have been silenced. But still with us are the buoyant yet somewhat bewildtered Boston boosters! rwrvously hopeful after thP Bosox ascendency in the AL East. 
Also prolific at Notre Dame are tht> proud Pirate fans who intimate somt> st>cret knowledge of success until money is mentioned. Least noticable are the Oakland sup­porters. but they do exist. They tend to-be cool andealcutatingwith a confidence brought on by three successive world titles. 
Lastly there is "homus cin­cinnatus", a species possessed of unflagging optimism despite past failures and an overwhelming enthusiasm. These attributes have combined to make the Reds one of the least-liked teams on campus. If the Red fail again many will not be grieved, if only to silence these overbearing boors from Southwest Ohio and environs. 
Before we begin analysis of the actual games themsleves, a comment on the television t·overage. NBC will have both games on Saturday afternoon.After that it will be all (and only) National League on WNDU until that series ends. The American LE.'ague Series will not be on in Chicago either. AL fans' only hope ( and its a slim one) might be to pull Kalamazoo on a eabie hook­up. 
0,\KL\ND \'S. BOSTON <first two at Boston, remaining games in Oakland) OFFENSE-The Red Sox averaged about half a run more a game on the season, not surprising when the Green Monster is taken into consideration. Boston hit .275 (20 points higher than the A's) 



by Hay O'Brien 
lnterhall football went under the lights last night with three games played. Stanford ran past Zahm 13­0; Keenan turned back Holy Cross 12-6 and Flanner defeated Grace 13-6 in the "battle of the twin 
towers." STANFORD t:l ZAHM 0 

Stanford scored its first touch­down on the last play of the first half. Quarterback Dom Garda threw a desperation pass, just over the outstretched hands of a Zahm defender, to Tom Thauss who took it in the rest of the way for a 58 J ,·ard score and a 6-0 lead for St­
. I ~mford.
, I ·,' 
Both teams' defenses again held tight until midway through the fourth quarter. Stanford faked a punt on their own 30 yard line and was thrown for a 5-yard loss. This gave Zahm its first scoring op­portunity of the night but the St­anford defense rose to the occasion behind the aggressive play of linebacker Jay Mayor and defensive back Ed McGah. 


The Stanford offense took over where the defense left off. A Garda toss from 8 yards out capped a 70 vard scoring drive wrapping up Stanford's second win of the season. 
Running back Kevin Fallon was 


...r the only bright spot for Zahm in a losing cause. Zahm 's record dropped to 1-1. 
KEENAN 12 HOLY CROSS 6 

Keenan's offense started moving on its first possession. A 5o-yard drive for a touchdown was called back on an illegal procedure penalty. Later in the first quarter another long drive was stalledJ because of the same infraction. Keenan's defense was just as
), 
impressive as the offense. The 
front line caused Holy Cross to cough up three fumbles, leaving the offense with good field position 
with Fred Lynn and Jim Hice both o\·er .:~oo. Part -timers (although aII saw regular action ~own the stret(·h) Carlton Fisk, Cecil Cooper and the amazing Denny Doyle also hit in the .300's. The Sox have no major power threat although every hitter· in the lineup has the ability to pop one over the l\lonster. and 
the lack of speed is apparent. 
' Oakland on the other hand does not appear to believe in base hits. Claudell 'Wahington is the only .300 hitter and no one else is even close. The A's utilize the homerun 1Heggie Jackson 36, Gene Tenace 29, Billy Williams 23) and the stolen base l Washington 40, plus Dagoberto Campaneiris and pinch runner Matt Al.exander) to score their runs. most of the time this is the kind. of attack most l'ffective in a short series. 
FIELIHN(;S -Both teams are fairly good 'in this department. Lvnn and Dwight Evans are· out­standing Bosox outfielders while Washington and Jackson of the A's both rate with the best. A lot of pressure will fall on young in­fielders in key positions -Rich Burleson. the Boston shortstop and Phil Garner. the Oakland second sacker. 
PITCHING -The A's have two proven starters in Ken Holtzman and Vida Blue. Both are lef­thanders though, and that is not what a pitcher wants in Fenway Park. Blue seems to be an ex­pecially bad risk against the Green Monster. After these two the A's starters decline sharply with Dick Bosman the best of a sorry lot. 
None of the Boston starters have anything approaching a good ERA but its hard to say how much is incompetance and how much is Fenway. Rick Wise, Luis Tiant and Bill Lee <not necessarily in that orderl are the three who figure to go for Boston leaving Hoger Moret with a 14-3 record out in the cold.· The reason is Moret's chronic wildness. 
Boston's bullpen suffers badly in 

Stanford, Keenan,Flanner win interhall contests 
most of the time. 
Keenan's offense finally 
capitalized on a fumble recovery 
at the Holy Cross 10 yard line. 
Running back George Faherty 
took it in for the score two plays 
later. 
Keenan's domination continued 
in the second half. The offense 
scored again as quarterback John 
Feeney bootlegged around the 
right side for the 12-yard score and 
a 12-0 lead which proved to be the 
dincher. 
Holy Cross finally scored in the closing minutes of the game with two passes from quarterb·ack l\1 ickey Landi to Steve Iandolo. Holy Cross suffered its second defeat. while Keenan upped its mark to 2-0. 
FLANNEH 1:1 GHAC'E 6 
A defensive stalemate highted the first half of the battle between the neighboring twin towers. A combination of lackluster offense and careless penalties kept both teams deep in their own territory. 
Flanner turned things around in the second half as they drove 65 yards for a score on their first possession. The drive was highlighted by the running of the entire Flanner backfield which remained explosive the rest of the game. Quarterback Mark Coons took it in for the score from 10­vards out. · Flanner recovered a fumble at its own 48 yard line to set up its second score. Once again, the power running of Mike Carini, Phil Volpeand Chris Nagle led the way. Volpe got credit for this score as he plunged in from the one-yard line. 
Quarterback Matt Ratterman of Grace threw on the mark to wide receiver Jerry Marks for the other tower's lone score. It was Grace's second loss in two tries while Flanner looked impressive in its first game of the season. 

comparison with the worl_d champions. The A's pen Rolhe Fingers, Jim Todd and Paul Lindbladl may not be as good as recent publicity claims but th~y still are among the best m baseball. Boston counters with Dick Drago, Reggie Cleveland, 
· Diego Segui and NL-reject Jim Willoughby. They're not as bad a~ they sound but they're still a clear step below Oakland. OTIIEH -It is ironic that both teams have outstanding right­handed hitting left fielders with the same initials who have hand in­juries. Boston's Jim Rice will definitely miss the playoffs, Joe Hudi's thumb leaves him questionable. The intangibles are hard to figure. The abscence of Catfish Hunter. a great clutch $itcher, should hurt the A's more in post­season action than during the regular campaign. But led by ·Reginald Martinez, Jackson. whose talents (his .250 average ntowithstanding) are only l'xceeded by his ego, the A's are positive they will beat anyone. Boston only thinks it can beat 
White also scored the second goal. Both were made before the first half. 
Defensively, freshman goalie Mary Hums made four key saves during the game but was unable to deflect Olivet's two goals, which came during the second half. Fullback Cheryl Baggin also aided te defense with two important saves. 
"The forward line was clicking, demonstrated by our two goals. The defense was again very strong but did tire a little which con­tributed to the two goals scored against us," added Coach Hotvedt. 
Out of a crowd of about 50, one of the spectators, athletic director Moose Krause, commented o~ !he game. "I think it's a very exciting game. It's like ice hockey, only on turf. I'm impressedby the con­Oakland.l This slight difference in attitude could be decisive. 
t'ON('LllSIONS-The two teams will split in Fenway. The Red Sox will beat Bosman in the third game and Boston hopes will soar: Holtzman and Blue will win games four and five, Oakland to go to the World Series and New England to sink into the sea. ('INCINNr\TI \'S. PITT­SBl11Uilllfirst two at Cincinnati, remaining games in Pittsburgh) 
OFFENSE -Both teams are synonymous with offensive baseball. The Pirates hit .264 as a team and led the league in homeruns. The Reds led the league in scoring by a hundred runs and hit .272. 
Pittsburgh has a pair of .300 hitters in Manny Sangulllen and Dave Parker <Willie Stargell may have sneaked across on the last day, he was hitting .297 on Saturdayl and had great closing sur·ges by Richie Zisk L290) and Hermie Stennett ( .287). Parker had a super year with .309, 25 homers and 100 RBIS. but Stargell's power numbers (22 and 91) were slightly down and AI Oliver hit only (for 
Paul Shoults, defensive secon­dary coach, along with offensive coordinator Mervin Johnson, cornerback Luther Bradley and halfback AI Hunter will be the featured speakers Friday night for the Michigan State pep rally. The even will begin at 7 p.m. with the band stepping o'f from Washington Hall at 6:40p.m. 
Women's soccer 
A meeting will be held within two weeks for Notre Dame women interested in forming a soccer club. 
Club organizer Kweku Laast said the club will probably b begin by playing St. Mary's teams or teams from other area schools. 
Women interested in joining the team may call Laast at 8895. 
him l .281. 
The Reds offense functioned like a \\'Pll-oiled machine this year avt>raging over five runs per game. Pete Rose (.317, 48 doubles l. Ken Griffey (.312, a world-record for infield hits) , and Jop Morgan (.327, over 100 walks) got on base. Then Johnny Bench (110 HBisl, Tony Perez 009 RBis) and George Foster <.302, 23 homers l, drove them in. Actually l\lorgan was a transitional figure driving in 94 runs in addition to scoring 107. Dave Concepcion finished ~trong to his .270 and is Pxpecially effective in the clutch and against lefties. 
FIELI>ING-A huge edge to the Heds in this department. Up the tniddle (Bench, Morgan, Con­l'epcion and Geronimo) are all Golden Glove caliber. the other defenders are all more than capable. The Pirates on the other hand have no outstanding fielders (possible exceptions Sanguillen and Parker l and several out-ant­out butchers. 
PITCIIIN<;-Herein lies the Bucs nwin hope. In Jerry Reuss, Jim Hooker and John Candalaria they feel they have a trio of left­handerswho can neutralize the Red attack which was mysteriously inneffective against lefthanders this vear. Heuss <17-11, 2.53) is the hesto of the bunch. 
The .. Heds' Don Gullett might have wont he Cy Young Award if he hadn't broken his thumb. As it was he finished with a 15-4 record and a 
2.24 ERA. His opening game battle with reuss should be a tight pit­l'her's dual. After Gullett, the lh•ds will probably call on Fredie Norman and Gary Nolan who like all Heds pitchers have impressive 
won-lost  totals  (12-4  and  15-9  
respectivelyl.  
The  bullpen  has  been  Cin­ 

rinnat i's most unheralded resource over the season as time aftt>r time rookies Rawly Eastwick and Will McEahney and veterans Clay Carroll and Pedro Borbon have done the job. All have pitched over 50 times this year and all have EHAs below :J.OO. The Pirate bullpen isn't bad either and !Dave Giusti. Hamon Hernandex and Kent Tekulve will be strenghtered by the addition of regular starters Bruce Kison and Larry Demery.. 
OTII EH -In every National League playoff since 1969 the team that opened at home has lost. This would figure to give the Pirates an edge but they must first gain a split in Cincinnati. This might not be as easy as it sounds since the Reds set an all-time record for home wins playing nearly .800 at borne. 
('ONCLllSION Historical precedent may favor the Pi_rates but I'll go with the cold reahth of 
108 wins. Cincinnati will take the first two games at home. By the time the Pirates get to Three rivers they'ss have the rookie Candalaria on the mound. If· he wins, the Reds will have Gullett ready again. Cincinnati in 
three or four games. 







