
New plan offered for OC food co-op 
by Fred Herbst Staff Reoprter 
An off-campus co-op membership will cost between $15 and $20, 
ac<.ording to a new plan released yesterday by Tom Fitzgerald, 
s ~udent body vice-president. 
Sudents who paid two dollars last spring toward this year's co-op can either have their money refunded or can have it deducted from the present membership fee. 
All records of students who had paid their two dollars were lost over the summer due to a foul-up by Student Government. 
The new membership fee is a substantial increase over the five­dollar fee in the original plan. Memberships can be sold upon with­drawal from the co-op at their initial cost. 
The membership fee must be paid by every member of a 
household before a household can participate in the co-op program. 
Fitzgerald commented on the increased membership fee saying, 
"You have to remember that it is sellable. And it's not fair for a 
house of six to use one membership while an individual has to pay 
c.he same rate." 
After obtaining a membership members will have to pay a weekly service charge. "This direct-charge system will depend entirely on the number of members we get," Fitzgerald said. The service charge will be based on a household rather than the number of individuals living in the house. "The service charge will affect you less the more you use the co­op," Fitzgerald said. "The service charge is a fixed rate." 
Goods available at the co-op will be determined by a survey to be 
conducted by the University's marketing department. This survey 
will be conducted after the co-op's membership drive. · 
"Staff and faculty are encouraged to participate," Fitzgerald 
said. "There just aren't enough off-campus students to make the 
('O-op worthwhile. We need members from the staff and faculty." 
In the case of staff and faculty, the membership fee will apply to 
t•ach individual16 yars old and older living at home. 
The co-op's membership drive will be held "hopefully" within a 
week according to Fitzgerald. 
Fitzgerald indicated that a poor turnout will mean the end of the 
food co-op. 
The foul-up occurred when Steve Shankel was forced to leave 
campus unexpectedly this summer. Student Body President Ed 
Byrne appointed Shankel to remain on campus over the summer to 
finalize plans for this year's co-op. 
Shankel was ordered into the Air Force and was unable to con­
tinue his work. Upon learning this, Fitzgerald drove to campus 
from his Joliet home to pick up all records and information. 
Fitzgerald was unable to find Shankel or therecords. When con­
tacted. Shankel said he had left the records on a sofa in the Student 
Government Offices. Despite a search of the offices, the records 
have not been found. 
According to Byrne, any student claiming that he paid the two­
dollar fee will be refunded. "It's our mistake and we'll have to take 
the loss." Byrne said. "I'm not really concerned, I don't believe too 
may people will try and take us for two dollars." 
"The loss of the record has made our task more difficult, but 
hopefully we can make amends," Byrne added. 
To improve relations 
ND'SMC plancouncil 
by Marjorie Irr Corpora said complaints about Staff Reporter the shuttle should be referred to Notre Dame and St. Mary's the Ombudsman. "We should try students discussed the formation channeling problems through of a council to improve relations existing agencies," said Corpora. between the two schools last night. This suggestion brought the 
Joe Corpora, Notre Dame co-ex whole proposal of a new council commissioner, said he "saw into question. relations between the two schools "If we are going to let the Om­
quickly deteriorating." budsman handle the shuttle, then 
He said something should be why not channel the other done to rebuild relations and a problems to him or to other special council may be the answer. agencies also?" asked senior 
"We don't know yet that a Marylu Bilek. special committee is really what "Will this group really have a we need. This meeting won't solve function?" she asked. the problems. We need people to The group generally agreed that work and get things moving," he something is needed to improve said. relations between the two schools. 
Citing results of "deteriorating The group also agreed that the relations," Corpora referred to the proposed council should not be fact that SMC students are no another social group, sponsoring longer permitted to swim at the dances and parties. Knute Rockne Memorial Pool, and The students indicated that they ND students have a "hard time" would rather see the formation of a trying to get onto the SMC tennis group, not for the purpose of courts. partying, but as one male student 
SMC sophomore Mary Broderick stated, "just to talk as friends." noted that shuttle service has Another area of conflict con­become even less dependable than cerns relations between women of last year. the two schools. 
"It's become the campus tour Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant bus," said Broderick. "See all the to the provost, discussed the si(lhts and sounds of Notre Dame waning relationship between the for one thin dime." (continued to page 4) 
No voters attend 

SLC candidate forum cancelled 
by Kevin Maher 
Staff Reporter 
The Grace Hall forum for the 
five SLC candidates was cancelled 
last night because no students 
attended. 
The forum, sponsored by Grace 
Hall, was designed to give the 
candidates a chance to express 
their views before an audience of 
student voters. 
The candidates are Mike Richter 
and John Salveson from the South 
quad and Jim Spurling and Ed Van 
Tassel from the North quad. 
Five minutes after the scheduled 
starting time of 9:00 p.m., Grace 
Hall president Denis Sullivan 
decided the meeting should be 
cancelled. 
"We tried to publicize it," 
Sullivan said, "but the word didn't 
get around." Sullivan stated, "The 
students don't know enough about 
the SLC," and he felt this possibly 

accounted for the lack of interest in An SLC candidate talks to his campaign manager while waiting for voters the forum. to appear at Grace Hall last night. Students vote today in the run-off The Grace president believed the election to fill three student seats on the Student Life Council. On campus scheduling of several depart-students may vote in the residence halls between 11 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. mental examinations last evening and between 5 p.m. and 4:30p.m. Ballot boxes have been set up between and tonight might have prevented 10:45 a.m. and 6 p.m. in The Huddle and the Library concourse for off many students from attending the campus students to vote. (Photo by Chris Smith)
forum. 

Mike Richter, a South quad John Salveson, the other South suggested "making the time more 
candidate, cited "poor planning, quad candidate, commented, "It convenient or having the forum in 
bad publicity, and bad location for wasn't publicized, so nobody the Library auditorium," in order 
South quad students" as reasons showed up." · to encourage greater attendance. 
for the lack of attendance. "No The other two candidates could Sullivan said he would "try in the 
student is going to break up his not be reached last night for future toget something together for 
studies to come to Grace Hall at comment. the new SLC members to meet the 
9:00p.m.," he added. In the future Mike Richter people in Grace Hall." 
ND awaiting hiring approval; $1 million aid not feared lost 
by Maureen Flynn their Affirmative Action programs In an article written for the Senior Staff Reporter before federal contracts were Notre Dame Magazine, Public awarded June 30. Information Services Director Notre Dame is awaiting The 16 institutions were given Richard Conklin noted, government approval of its Af­the option of standing by their "University officials said af­
firmative Action Program for the previously-submitted plans and firmative action plans had been in hiring of women and minorities. 
force at Notre Dame since 1970 and But the University is no longer that no complaint against the 
threatened with the loss of a University alleging discriminatory federal research contract in excess practice had ever been upheld by a of $1 million. government agency. Approval of an Affirmative "Notre Dame's latest report had risking rejection (thereby losing
Action Program is required of all been submitted to HEW in April,
their federal contracts) or insuring officials said."
institutions receiving $1 million or 

their contracts by signing a model The time problem arose when
more in federal research con­tracts, according to Revised proposal. several agencies, including the 
Executive Order No. 4 and Labor Notre Dame refused to sign the Energy Research and Develop­
Department regulations. model proposal according to a ment Administration CERDA), 
In letters dated June 11, 1975, 16 letter from University President failed to submit lists of their institutions--including Notre Fr. Hesburgh because it "extorts contractors to the Office for Civil Dame, Princeton, Yale and from the University admissions Rights <O.C.R.) in time for con­Harvard--were notified that there and undertakings that are tracting institutions to submit was not enough time to evaluate thoroughly unreasonable." (continued on page 3) 



Thursday, September 25, 1975
the observer 
Hostages freed 
warld briefs 
TORONTO <AP> -An official of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police said Wednesday Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau's guards were put on the alert after two men were heard to make what sounded like a threat to kill him. 
MIAMI <AP>-Residents of Florida's Panhandle joined volunteer rescue workers and National Guardsmen Wednesday in mopping up after Hurricane Eloise. One state official estimated damage to the area at $150 million. 
Florida's Gov. Reubin Askew, after touring a 40-mile-wide path 
of destruction from Fort Walton Beach to Panama City, said he 
would seek federal aid. 
One man died of a heart attack while waiting out the storm in a 
Fort Walton Beach shelter. Two Alabama residents were injured 
as the storm rushed inland. 
OCALA, Fla. <AP> -An unemployed service station attendant 
who was allowed to go free this week after telling FBI agents he 
planned to kill Pre~ident Ford was arrested Wednesday night, an 
FBI spokesman sa1d. 
The spokesman said John Clayton Massey, 32, was arrested at an 
Ocala truck stop on a charge of conspiracy to kill the President. 
U.S. Atty. Robert Yerkes said Massey walked into the FBI office in this north Florida city Tuesday or Wednesday and said he and others planned to kill Ford andSen.Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass. 


an campus taday 
3:30p.m. --lecture, "the design of humanistic work: philosophical­culture considerations," lib. aud. 4:00p.m.-· seminar, "dry electron scavenging in H20 and 020," radiation conference rm. 
4:00 p.m. --colloquium, "current concepts in behavioral self­control," rm. 119, haggar hall. 
5:15 p.m. --evensong vespers, log chapel. 
7:00 p.m. --chess club meeting, computer-math building, rm. 326 

Meany supports program 

to lovver une:mployment 
"I'm here to ask you toWASHINGTON <AP) -AFL­
~easure it in terms of people,CIO President George Meany mstead of dollars," Meany told

told Congress Wednesday it can the Senate Budget Committee.
reduce unemployment to be­
The budget committee is tak­

tween 4 and 5 per cent next year by enacting organized la­ing testimony prior to recom­bor's $21 billion job-creating mending a final 1976 budget to 
the Congress. Congress alreadyprogram. 

has enacted a preliminaryThe program includes public budget that limits the deficit toworks projects, expanded pub­

$68 billion, compared with thelic service employment, tax Ford administrati'ln 's deficit ofcuts, federal aid to both private $60 billion.

industries and cities and cloa· 
Meany, howver, expressed

ing of tax loopholes. 
disappointment with Congress'Sen. Pete V. Domenici, R· first attempt at budget-making,N.M., said it was the first time 

and accused it of being "hypno­

anyone had suggested unem­tized" by the White House.
ployment could be so dramati­cally reduced by such a spend­"The congressional budget 
ing program. represented little more than an endorsement of the adminis­
The nation's unemployment 
tration's priorities -five solidrate was 8.4 per cent in August. 

years of massiVl unemploy­

Reducing that to 4 to 5 per cent ment,.." he adrted.
means the creation of between Meany did not outline the 11­three and four million jobs. 
point pngram in detail, but
The Ford administration proj­
said it mcluded resto:ing the

ects a decline in the unemploy­
nation's railroad track andment rate to between 7 and 7.5 

track beds at a cost of about $2

per cent by the end of 1976. The billion. It also calls for extend­drop would result in~ the addition ing the 1975 individual tax cutsof about one million jobs. 
through 1976.
Meany said labor's program AIthough he previm.::sly hadwould increase the federal 

disc.losed the progra1n, Meany'sbudget deficit for fiscal 1976 to testimony Wedne!:day markedbetween $90 billion and $95 bil­the first timP. he 1Jrecast £uchlion, but added that the size of dramatic employment remits

the deficits should not be the Ly late 1976.
major concern in the bud~et. 


Prisoners' demands met 
-~---~~~---~--------­
I' Th~ Serving Beer on Sundays I 
t t 
:RATH§KIEILLE~ : It PIZZA SANDWICHES BEER It 
~ FOR CARRY OUT CALL ~ 
t 25~707 t 100 CENTER JlllSHA JfAkA, INDIANA t
-~ . ,. ...... ~ '
L---~ ---~4 
MICHIGAN CITY, Ind. (AP) 
Two knife-wielding inmates believed to be high on drugs held an Indiana State Prison doctor and two other employes hostage in the prison hospital Wednesday and issued a list of nine demands to Warden Leo Jenkins, officials said. 
William J. Watt, a spokes­man for Gov. Otis R. Bowen, said the hostages were appar­ently unharmed. 

Officials said Jenkins was prepared to negotiate with the inmates, whose demands in­cluded more lenient visiting regulations, recreation area im­provements, changes in the prisoner disciplinary board and upgraded educational pro­grams. 
The demands were relayed by another prisoner sent into the hospital at the two inmates' request as a messenger. The messenger reported that the in­mates said their takeover was an "action, not a riot" and de­manded a guarantee of no re­prisals. 

State Correction Commisioner Robert D. Heyne said inmates David Erikson, 33, and James Kelley, 28, broke into the hospi­tal's drug supply and were be­lieved to be taking dru~s. 
Heyne said the messenger re­ported that the pair "appeared to be under the influence of drugs," but the inmates told him they were "not high on drugs." 
Watt said the two inmates took over the two-story hospital about 2:30 p.m., apparently after taking a key from a se­curity guard. Eight prison em­ployes were taken hostage, but two were released within two hours and three others were re­leased two hours after that. 
Erikson is in the second year of a 1-to-10-year sentence for possession of dangerous drugs. Kelley is serving a 21-year sen­tence for voluntary manslaugh­ter in a Fayette County, Ky., slaying. He was transferred to the Indiana prison under the terms of a reciprocal agree­ment between the two states. 
The hostages were identified by Watt as Dr. Rodger Saylors; Ronald E. Warner, 25, a medi­cal technician, andTimothy F. Quigley , 25, a physician's as­sistant. 
The 114-year-old maximum security prison on the southern shore of Lake Michigan was the site of a Labor Day weekend disturbance two years ago when about 600 rebellious in­mates took control of three cell-
The Observer,., publt~hed Monday through Frtday and weekly dur•ng the summer sesston. except dur•ng e•amo; and vacatton pertod~ The Observer •S publtshed by the students of the Untv of Notre 
o'ame and St Mary's College Subscrtplton~ may be purchased tor 10 dollars per semester ( 18 dollars per year) from The Ob o;erver. Bo• Q. Notre Dame. In d•ana. 46556 Second Class postage patd. Notre Dame. IN 46556 

------. 
blocks and held three guards medical care. hostage for 35 hours. In the year immediately fol­
That uprising ended without lowing the 1973 disturbance, bloodshed when Bowen granted more than $2 million in state amnesty to the prisoners in­and federal funds was spent for volved and promised action on improvements in prison facil­their demands, including better ities, including the hospital. 
TAPE RECORDERS &

SONY 
'< PLAYERS e COMPONENT UNITS • CAR STEREO TV'S • QUAD EQUIPMENT 

~ Mii+j
TURNTABLES 
n.. s-.4 of E.qctt..ce
TEAC crown 


287-1400 
San.sui:. 
3302 MISHAWAKA AVENUE 


BANK AMERICARD 
MASTER CHARGE 


COMPETITIVE PRICES! ! 
ON ALL STEREO EQUIPMENT FOR YOUR CAR & HOME FM CONVERTERS, SCANNERS, CB RADIOS, CAR STEREOS, RECEIVERS, AMPS, TURNTABLES, SPEAKERS INSTALLATION -SERVICE 


MIDNIGHT MADNESS SALE 
THIS FRIDAY NIGHT SEPT. 26 (only) 
FROM 

MIDNIGHT to 4 AM. 
Will be the most Spectacular Sale of stereos and components imaginable! ! 
GIIARANTEED 10-oO% SAVINGS 
YOU CAN'T AFFORD TO MISS IT!! 



MIDNIGHT MADNESS SALE 


r. 

Thursday, September 25, 1975 the observer
$1 million not lost 
ND awaiting facuity hiring approval 
(continued from page I) 
Affirmative Action plans for ap­proval. 
Expt>cl plan to bt-approved 
The ERDA awards over $1 million to the University's Radiation Laboratory each year. 
HEW officials subsequently announced that contracts awarded under the ERDA would not take effect until Sept. 30 and extended the University's deadline three months. 
According to Dr. Francis Kobayashi, assistant vice­president for research and sponsored programs, "We expect that the plan will be fully approved and that the contract will come through shortly after." 
The Affirmative Action Program analyzed the current ethnic and sexual composition of the staff at Notre Dame and sets up goals and timetables for the recruitment, hiring and promotion of women and minorities. 
Notre Dame's Affirmative 
Action Program, formulated in 
1970 and revised in 1975, provides 
for the gradual expansion of 
female and minority faculty over 
the next four academic years. 
According to the report, the female faculty will be expanded from the current 64 members to at least 96 women in 1978-79, an in­crease of 33 per cent. 
Minority faculty will likewise be expanded from the 48 members currently employed to a minimum of 90 minority members in 1978-79, an increase of 64 per cent. 
Skills Inventory providt>d 
These numbers and statistics are 
further broken down by in­
tervening years and by the 
numbers of women and minorities 
members in each department. 
In addition, the program 
provides for "a Skills Inventory of 
currently employed minority 
persons and women. This in­
\·entory will be designed to locate 
the special academic and ex­

.........~

~,. _..........
" 
·, •. Some concert-goers, anxious for good tickets to the Beach Boys concert, camped out overnight in Darby's Place. 
(Photo by Chris Smith) 

Tix package goes on sale for Beach Boys weekend 
Tickets for the Oct. 2.5 Beach Boy's Concert will go on sale on Friday at !l a.m. 
Tickets will b~ sold individually, and in the Student Union package. Tom Birsic, Student Union director. explained how the ticket sales will be handled. 
"Friday at 9 a.m. the ticket package will go on sale at Stepan CPnter only. Packages include two l'Oncert tickets, two Southern California football tickets and one l'ouple's homecoming party ticket. Thep.rice for this will be $35," said Birsic.· 
"We went through an exhausting examination of the pros and cons of Pvery ticket package and found this to be the best." he noted. 
Package seats for the concert will be six-dollar tickets in sections 7 and 8. Tickets for the football game will be in the general ad­mission sections. 
"Regular tickets, those for the Beach Boys Concert only, will go on sale on Friday at 9a.m. only at the Student Union Ticket Office and the ACC. Prices will be $7, $6, and $5," Birsic added. 
"Packages will not be sold on Friday morning at the usual outlets. Only at Stepan," he em­phasized. 
"Also, Stepan will be open all night for students who want to be 
assured  of  getting  tickets,"  he  
added.  
Birsic  also  noted  that  Student  

Union is "working out some arrangement" to discourage scalpers and that action against them will definitely be taken. 
"I'd like to thank Mike Busick, the ACC ticket manager, for all the help he's given on the concert," Birsci concluded. Gabe Zarnoti, Student Union 
eoncert co-ordinator has been planning the Beach Boys concert sinct' last June. He explained some of the problems he en­
countered. 
"W{' found out only on Tuesday that they were coming for sure," said Zarnoti. ''I made the offer in .July. They accepted, but later 
·pushed the price up to their liking. 
Then  I just  told them  to  either  
aecept  my  original  offer  or  to  
forget the whole thing"  

"They just confirmed it yesterday that the concert was still on." he noted. "They're coming only because we're paying them what we are. But it will be great for the Southern Cal " 
perience skills not being fully utilized from among this group." 
"Using  this  inventory,"  the  
pr.ogram  claims,  "upward  ac­ 
celeration  into  better  jobs  can  

more easily be accomplished for them." 
:\lore points covt-rf"d 

Other important points covered in the Affirmative Action Program are as follows: 
--The University Budget Com­mittee will "review and assure the achievement of salary equity between male and female em­ployes having the same qualifications, responsibilities and 
duties within the same job e lassifica tion.'' 
--"All departments will be ex­pected to expend special..energies to locate qualified women and minority applicants to fill their vacancies." 
Senior Club 
--"There shall be no discrimination in any conditions of employment including work assignments, teaching load, research responsibilities, salary, 
fringe benefits, baticals."  leaves  and sab­ 
--"There discrimination  shall on the  be basis  no of  

marital or parental status." 
The program notes the ap­pointment of Thomas Broden, director of the Urban Studies Program, as the equal em­ployment opportunity <EEO) officer for academic personnel and departments. 
Annual rt>\'iew of program 
Bro. Kieran Ryan, assistant vice president for business affairs, has been appointed EEO officer for staff personnel and departments. 
An Affirmative Action Com­mittee, appointed by the university president, "shall be responsible for 

suffers from 
theft, repeated vandalisin 
by Ken Bradford 
Copy Editor 

A new stereo speaker has been sti>len from the Senior Club, manager Gil Johnson reported yesterday. 
The speaker was removed from the bar through an open window in the music room on Thursday, Sept. 18, during regular bar hours, Johnson said. He estimated the loss at $75. 
Senior Club personnel purchased a new stereo system earlier on the day of the theft and installed it at the club, Johnson sF.id. The stereo was not operating at the time of the theft. 
Johnson said there was no dancing that evening and club personnel assumed that no one was in the music room. He added that the windows were open because it was a hot evening. 
Johnson said he believes a member of the club clipped the cord to the speaker and passed it out the window to an accomplice. 
The Senior Club has also been hit by property damage this year. Johnson said shutters have been pulled off walls in the club and holes have been punched in walls. 
"It's really disappointing," Johnson said. "We've put a lot of time into the club. This damage is not accidental." 
The paneling in a bathroom was damaged two weeks ago after a fight in the club, Johnson said. The senior who damaged the walls was a participant in the fight and was locked in the bathroom by friends who wanted him to regain his temper. 
Johnson was emphatic in stating that only a handful of students are involved in " off the Senior Club." 
"The majority of the people are 
great," he said. "Everybody's 
having a great time but a couple of 
guys are trying to ruin it for the 
rest of us." 

Parts & accessories for imported car for all makes at lowest prices. 
"*************************
! For N D Students, Faculty & Staff 10 * 
* percent discount with I0 & pur-~ ! chase of $10 or more. ! ************************* 
THE POSTER PLACE 
100 llxl7 POSTERS only $10.00 


insty-prints 
203 N. MAIN ST. SOUTH BEND 289-6977 

A Good Place To Be! When? Tomorrow (and every Fri) A chance to be with good people for Mass and informal supper. Everyone welcome -Mass at 5:15 TOMORROW! 
the annual review of the Af­firmative Action Program," the program states. "It will revise the program as required to insure that demonstrable progress is made toward a University in which minorities and women in 
reasonable  numbers  are  
represented and rewarded  at all  
levels.''  


TOMORROW! 

;4~:HolfGlt;\IL 
':;~ 6:30 ;~~M CINEMA 5 9:30 
PLUS WHERE'S POPPA 
STARRING 
GEORGE SEGAL RUTH GORDON 
R 


0. 
.. . 
4.1~<1.4.• .J.~~' ,; • , •• ''-ot ...-. 
• ~ ....... , • ... I. • 1' I • I-I. t· ,., •• *" .~-~ , ~,_~Ill' .lf/l ,II,.• .• • •"' ••' • • ... •' ,._ • • • ..... •.-. ..._' •-•. 

Thursday, September 25, 1975
the observer
4 

HungerCoalition to sponsorfastingprogram 
by Mary Mungovan 
Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition sponsored a Mass and Day of Fasting Wednesday as part of its activities for National Hunger Concern Week, September 21-28. 
The Coalition will also sponsor a pledge drive Thursday for a once a week fasting program. 
Fr. Frank Quinlivan, executive director of the South Bend Justice and Peace Commission, celebrated the Mass at 6 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. Ap­proximately 50 to 60 persons at­tended the Mass. 
In his sermon, Quinlivan said, "It is a sin of society that the rich ignore the suffering poor out of ignorance of their need." Quinlivan called for "a growth of awareness" of the problem and ways to respond. 
"As we pray for our 'daily bread' , he added, "let us pray that it becomes a reality for people everywhere.'' 
The Coalition will be distributing pledge forms Thursday in the dining halls for students willing to fast once a week all semester. 
Each student who signs a pledge agrees to fast from dinner on Wednesdays from October 1 to December 17. The Notre Dame food service then crosses that student's meal card number off the list for those meals and the Hunger Coalition receives 75 cents per person per night at the end of the semester. This rate is a 25 cents increase over last year. 
A similar fasting program run last spring for six Wednesdays at 50 cents per person earned 1100 dollars. 
Three-fourths of the money received will go to overseas relief through organizations such as CARE, UNICEF, CORR, and Catholic Relief Service, while one­fourth of the funds will be given to the poor of South Bend through the Justice and Peace Commission. 
According to Tom Reid, assistant director of Volunteer Services and advisor to the Hunger Coalition, "There are many avenues of response to the problem of world hunger." 
This week's activities, Reid said, 
"are a chance for us to show our 
support and our solidarity with the 
suffering by feeling what they're 
STARTS FRIDAY' 
****

-N~ Y. Dally News~ 
"FAREWR£, 
MYUWII.Y" 
ROBERT MITCHUM 
I 
CHARLOTTE RA MPLING r JOHN IRELAND FRI. FORUM II 
,, 
**** 
i -N. Y. Daily New 

I i· ittorio 
1: Sica's 

.11 PARTY
ND,SMC p Ian counc1 1 AT 1 1 
program, the coalition plans to work on a congressional bill proposal, community education and canvassing, and research on relief organizations. Also included in the coalition's plans are special liturgies and rice and tea dinners. 
The coalition will send a representative to the National University conference on Hunger, 



FUNNY LADY 
F R I . 6 • 45 9: 30

1 
SAT. SUN. 1:1!:> 4:00 6:45 9•30 MON. THURS. 6 15 9 00 



LUTHER 
FRI. 7:009:15 SAT. SUN. 2:15 4 30 7 00 9:15 MON THURS. 7:00 9:15 

Uf·)iler-lluu~e r=lix 
TWIN THEATRES-100 CENTER-MISHAWAKA-255-9575 
------------------..
1 1 
I1 I  BRIDGET M GUIRE'SC  I1 I  
I1 BRIDGET PREDICTS A VICTORY  II  
I  SHE IS H A VI N G A  1  
I1  VICTORY PARTY  1I  
1 AT HER PUB AFTER THE GAMEI 1 ALL THE SHELLED PEANUTS 1 YOU CAN EAT  1 I II  
I  (FOOTBALL SAT  I  

• ­

I PITCAERJ:" 0 F BEER\ I



IJII-----------------· 
November 21 to 23. 

"The hunger situation is as bad now as it ever was. But the way people are thinking of how to solve it is getting better," Brinegar commented. "I see a definite improvement in the way the U.S. is responding -more long-range developmental programs are replacing short-term foreign aid." 
feeling, if only for a few moments. It's a time for each of us to question our individual response." 
The World Hunger Coalition was created in Nove.rrbP~ of last year under the of Fr. 
Theodore Hesburgh. Chris Brinegar, the current president, estimates there are now between 40 and 50 members who meet once a month. 
Fr. Frank Quinlivan at the NO World Hunger Coalition mass yesterday. 
The Coalition will be sponsoring a weekly program of fasting this semester. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
(continued from page 1) 

schools and what has been done to counter it. 
"I've been concerned about the lessening relationship between the two schools. As the number of women we have (at NO) increases, I see the schools growing farthE:'r apart and I think it's awful," said Jones. 
"In the second year of coeducation, Stevie Wernig, from St. Mary's, and I got some people together to discuss what could be done," she explained. 
The group formed and called themselves SMAND (St. Mary's and Notre Dame). 
Jones stated that the group discussed a lot, but did not ac­complish any major goals. Last year's orientation week gathering with Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
know each other.'' 
womenwasnot,Jonespomtedout, very successful. This year was 
much better, she observed.
Jones then discussed what the group saw as the basis for the proposed council. "What you want 
to do is get people together to get
rid of the stereotypes." "I know so many guys would like 
to meet girls just to talk. I know all 
sorts of people who would really ~~~~oan~et together," said John 
"A situation in which the guys
could see girls from both schools wgether and not put us into categories and label us,"
suggested Marti Hogan. Jones suggested meetings at the 
homes of faculty members. "Groups of eight or ten people
could get together to do just what you are suggesting--talk and get to 
f: COME RAIN OR SHINE TO TOWN &COUNTRY FOR YOUR FAVORITE 

WINES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
LIQUOR • WINE 10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC I.D. BEER · BEST PRICE IN TOWN VOLUME DISCOUNT FREE DELIVERY 
TWO FREE LOCATIONS DELIVERY 
.... ~ ~·· '"·-"'' 

-'.-: 

{ . .;. .... ~. .......... ;...,_\.., . 
• I • • ~ • •

" ' ... ' .-. . -. '., .-:·;·~·~·.·_ 
• ' • t -· • II ' 
-
----------------------------------------·-···--~~ 


------------------------.----_.---· ~ ; 
'{, ( ·. 
...' . .. ·' .• ..
• " I 'J 
5
Thursday, September 25, 1975 the observer 

Religionconference to probe social change 


Coalition building as an effective strategy for social change will be examined at the sixth annual conference of the Catholic Com­mittee on Urban Ministry <CCUM), to be held at Notre Dame's Athletic and Convocation Center Oct. 26-30. 
Msgr. John J. Egan, CCUM chairman and director of Notre Dame's Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry, said he expects the meeting to attract about 700 of 
$3 Inillion allocated lor Cushing Hall renovation 
by Pat Mikes Staff Reporter 
Renovations on the Cushing Hall of Engineering will begin next summer. 
The building was constructed in 1932, while the last addition, the mechanical engineering lab, was built in 1941. 
Dean of Engineering, Joseph Hogan, said every facility of his college needs renovation. "Only architecture is adequately housed at the present time," he said, "and even it has become crowded with increased enrollment. We've needed additional space for 
• many,many years." 
According to Hogan, the college is hampered by a small library, cramped laboratories, and classrooms without proper ven­tilation, acoustics, lighting and audio-visual facilities. 
Hogan stated that the only plans made thus far are for the ex­penditure of one million dollars for 
Would-be assassin infor~ned authorities about gun supplier before her atte1npt 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP> Twenty-four hours before Sara Moore fired a gun at President Ford, she acted as an infor­mant by telling authorities about the man who sold her the gun used in the assassination attempt, The Associated Press 
learned  Wednesday.  
Law  enforcement  sources  
here said  Mrs.  Moore  was  both  

hinting to police about her plans to kill the President and feeding them information about possible violations of federal firearms laws. 
A federal source said the one­
• time member of the Women's Army Corps gave police infor­mation about Mark Fernwood, a Danville, Calif., weapons col­lector who admits selling her the revolver used in the assas­themost significant Catholic and Protestant leaders in the United States and Canada representing every facet of social ministry in the Church today. 
Msgr. Egan 'Oted that the conference theme "gathers added meaning in the profound hap­penings related to the In­ternational 'Women's year," and also takes serious note of the ap­proaching Bicentennial of the nation. 
renovations and two million dollars for additional space. It is estimated that 200,000 square feet of additional space is needed for the building. 
The new building has been planned for several years. "Presumably we were going to get the building from year to year, but the money never materialized," Said Hogan. 
Funds were originally expected from the SUMMA campaign of 1967. Despite the fact that the ­campaign raised well over its goal of 52 million dollars, no money was allocated for the building. 
The current fund-raising campaign, begun last January, is very close to its goal of three million dollars. The College of 
Engineering expects an an­nouncement concerning the fund within a month. 
It will take much more than three million dollars to complete the renovations and additions, Hogan estimated. 
sination try and another gun two weeks earlier. 
The San Francisco Police De­partment referred Mrs. Moore to the federal Bureau of Alco­hol Tobacco and Firearms­ATF, where she repeated the information about Fernwood, according to the source. 
The source declined to elabo­rate on her information but said authorities were interested enough to start an investiga­tion. 
An ATF spokesman in Wash­ington declined to comment on the report, saying contact with Mrs. Moore was part of a cur­rent investigation. The ATF en­forces federal gun-control laws. 
The FBI says it is in­vestigating Mrs. Moore's pur­
. 

chase of the weapons in con­nection with the assassination attempt. 
Fernwood says he sold Mrs. 
Moore the guns -a .44-caliber 
HOURS: MQN-THURS 12-6
revolver two weeks ago and a 
FRI -12 -7 S.t\ T -1 0 -5

.38-caliber revolver Monday ­because she was a "friend of a 
2216 MIAMI :sO. BEND friend'' whom he declined to identify.

r--------------------------·

THE PAN !


, PIZZA PARLORI 
I 
I 
I 
I

I' fh_e pizza the I wc,:ld awaited!
I 1

I 8-pack 16 oz. 7Up or Pepsi, just $1 I 
I 277-1221 or 277-1222 I 
I for I 
Barbara Williams, executive .director of the Congressional 
Black Caucus, Washington, D.C., .will deliver the keynote address. Th general sessions, which for/the first time will be open to the public, will include addresses by: 
--Claire Randall, general 
secretary of the National Council 
of Churches, New York, N.Y., on 
coalition building as a strategy for 
women in church and society; 
--John Cardinal Dearden, Ar­
chbishop of Detroit and chaiman of 
theNationalConference of Catholic 
Bishops' committee for the 
Bicentennial, on the potential for 
coalition building in the Church's 
bicentennial program. Msgr. Egan 
said this will be the first of three 
major Bicentennial addresses 
Cardinal Dearden is scheduled to · give this year: 
--Rev. Andrew Greley, director 
of the Center for the Study of 
American Pluralism, National 
Opinion Research Center, Chicago, 
ILl., on the Church as coalition 
builder past and present, and 
--Rev. J. Bryan Hehir, associate 
secretary of the USCC Office of 
Internatonal Justice and Peace, 
Washington, D.C., on global issues 
and problems and the world's 
quest for coalitions. 
The five-day agenda for the 
working conference will include 
seminars and workshops to orient 
and update participants on six 
current social issues--criminal 
justice, education for peace and 
justice, housing, hunger,income 
secureity and women. 
New groups formed according to 
primary ministry--education, 
social service or 
community organization and 
political action--and workplace 
situation--parish, Ineighborhood, the workplace. community, diocese or state-will The CCUM conference will be examine tapproaches to sicla followed immediately by the semi­change and work with an ex­annual meeting Oct. 30 of the perienced coalition builder to National Convergence of Justice devise potential strategies within and Peace Centers. 
License forgers arrested 
INDIANAPOLIS CAP) -An 

estimated 500 to 2,000 fake driv­
ers' licenses may still be circu­
lating in the Bloomington area, 
but the chi"' of the State Ex­
cise Police warned the cardhol­
ders Wednesday not to use 
them. 
Chief Philip J. Sanders said the agency broke up a state­wide fake license ring Tuesday with the arrest of two Indiana University students. The licens­es were sold mainly to under­age IU students and other mi­nors as identification for buying beer and liquor, he said. 
However Sanders said all of the phony cards have not been confiscated. But merchants in the Bloomington area have been alerted to Y:atch for them. 
SL-EEPING BAGS -20% OFF 
MANY OTHER SALE ITEMS ­
0% DISCOUNT-aNNaN-SALE TEM5 N PURCHASE ~OF ~25°0 OR MORE~ ITH ND OR SMC J.D. 

The only I 
authentic Italian ·! Deep Dish Pizza. 1 
I 
I 
WATCH OUR ADS ALL THIS I 
WEEK FOR AN EVENT THAT II 
0 LIEVE
Y U WON'T BE I (Save our valuable coupons.) 1 

I ~ 
Sanders said the ring was un­covered when merchants be­came suspicious of youthful­
. looking beer buyers who could not produce more than one piece of identification. The store owners notified police who then began an investiga­tion. 
David P. Drury, Hammond, and Karen M. Cox, 20, Bloo­mington, have been charged with forgery and uttering a false document. A warrant is being sought for a third person who printed some more of the licenses, Sanders said. 
Drury, a student at IU North­west, reportedly admitted he made $600 from sale of the li­censes. Prices ranged from $4­$15 for each card, Sanders said. 
S
IERRA 
PORTS 
ALE (ENDS SEPT 30th) 
ALL GERRY SLEEPING BAGS 
-20% OFF L ALL CAMP 7 

Free· Delivery 1
1 
3 

~ I anywhere on campus I 
l!':ii~~~~~:U~::ui:~~~~~~...,.,s..~~~~~~i...::lll i ·---------------------------= 

,....-­
.. 
~ 
~ 
\ \ 

save $120.80
I Sensational Sony STR-7015 Stereo
~ 
FM/AM Receiver with outstanding features, perform­ance and versatil­..i ity! Switched output for both main and remote pairs of 
,.; ,.... speaker systems. Precision tuning meter. Tape monitor. ;"':•/" ,.. 
F:ront-panel headphone and mike jacks. Complete BSR ~ ::­
···-..:-.......·· ,-·-...
2260 Changer Package inchtding base, dust cover and *~ cartridge! Two wide-range PROJECT one AS-6 Two­Way Speaker Systems! 
,_ ;.;'' 
. _·,_~~~......,,
SANSUI221 Budget SystemValue 
""""''·~---­




$i99 ~ 
~:"' SHARP SC-114 Complete 3-Piece Compact 
Reg. $179.95 

$139 
save $40.95 
Center unit incorpo­r rates a sensitive AM/ ? FM/MPX section; full-size BSR Chang­Ultra-reliable Sansui 221 Stereo FM 'AM er with dust cover Receiver compares to much more expensive and cartridge; and a ·-units! Sophisticated tuner section delivers flawless built-in stereo 8-track
f 
..--_ even under difficult conditions. Amplifier seclion puts tape player. Plus a out ample clean power. 'J;ape monitor. Tuning meter. pair of large matched BSR 2260A XChanger with base, dust cover and air suspension speak­cartridge. Two deluxe JF-6A 6" 2-Way Speaker Systems. er systems! An un­
beatable value! 
~--•"'' 
';j 


SONY PS-5520 
,.......~ 
Auto/ Manual

. ~ \ ... .._J 
Turntable

I : '':.__'_.)_.)______....---.----..--.-.--.---. Package SHURE M44E 

Stereo Cartridge.
SANSUI 771 FM/ AM Receiver. One of the PIONEER CT-2121 Dolby Cassette Reg. $219_00 Great for most turn­most advanced and reliable re-Reg. $429.00 
Deck. Convenient front-Reg. $199.95 tables and Reg. $24.95
Belt drive. Statically-balanced

ceivers you'll find anywhere! 2 
$319 $179 SJO
loading design. Switch-precision tonearm. Base, dust changers!
tape monitors. 3 pairs of speak~r able bias and EQ! Super! Tracks 1314


SJBB
cover and Empire 66QE/X

outputs. Mike input. (Less cabinet.) 
save $110 Cartridge. save $31 to 4 gm. save $14.95 
save $20.95 






Q QC 

c 1975 Playback, Inc. 
tDe eecrronic poyground 
-.. , ''""--',%-.' . --4!Yj' ~ 
-· ~--~·-~--,.,_-.....-L···•"<~~-r-·­
.·, .

,-_~"'-·-. 
'"• ;::: -.' .·
---~ 4-~ "' C 0 "' 
L 
.-.,1'4-­
·Tfttwsday, September 25, 1975 

.... ,,~­
r·y 
I -;. 
( ~ f1*~ 
~-~') -;::­
J 
r·:~: 
~·-~,
hi 
I 
i
:t 56 HOURS 01' CONTINUOUS SELLING! 
I 
-~ , j 1
cl tJT HOURLY SPECIALS \f~;:. 
9-10 KINGSWAY CR-15A AM/FM Digital Clock 
Precision BSR 695 Changer Package With Table Model Radio. Reg. $39.95 Base, Dust Cover And Cartridge.
PM FRI ~~o 588 
Reg. $159.95 AUDIO-TECHNICA AT-707 Ad-HALF

10-11 PLAYBACK Deluxe 5-Band Frequency 11 
vanced-Design Stereo Headphones. PRICE!

Equalizer. Reg. $69.95
PM FRI ~~ Reg. $79.95 BLANK TAPE SPECIALS
11PM-FRI 11PM­
RCA 4-Band (AM/FM/Hi-PS/Lo-PS) AC/ c:120 Cassette 3-Pack12AM DC Portable Radio. Reg. $59.95 12AM SO-Minute 8-Track Cartridge 4-Pack 
12-1 Record Preener Cleaner Which Lifts Dust 99c SAT 12-1 BIGSTON KP-200 AC/DC Portable HALF $2988
AM And Cuts Static Reg. $2.95 AM Cassette Recorder. Reg. $59.95 PRICE!
FRI 
1-2 EPI Microtower I Omnidirectional Speaker 1-2 TEXAS INSTRUMENTS Tl-1250 9-Func­.~f1 System. Reg. $69.95 lion 8-Digit Calculator With Full Memory.
FRI $2988 SAT SJSBB 
:'4J 
AM AM 
~;:: 
~"l 2-3 SENHHEISER HD-414 Ultra-Lightweight 2-3 SHARP SR-113 AM/FM Stereo 3-Piece
~---
Open-Aire Stereo Headphones. Reg. $49.95 
Compact With Buill-In 8-Track.

AM
~-FRI AM 529 SAT 588
:::::~i.. 
'il':.'; Reg. $129.95 
~-:'' 
SANSUI QRX-3000 2/4-Channel

3-4 3-4
FM/ AM Full-Feature Receiver. HALF
~: PRICE! SKARDA 555 Compact Stereo 8-Track
Reg. $429.95
FRI AM 5214 SAT AM player Under-Dash. Reg. $49.95 529 4-5 4-5
SONY TA-3200F "Performance-Plus" 
DUAL 1225 Precision Automatic Turn·

FRI AM Power Amplifier. RJg. $400 $329 SAT AM 58~8
table. Reg. $139.95 

5-6 EMPIRE 999TE/ XHigh Compliance Stereo 5-6 
KOSS Pro 4AA Best Buy Wide-Range Magnetic Cartridge. Reg. $69.95

FRI AM SJ988 SAT AM 533
Stereo Headphones. Reg. $65.00 


6-7 6-7
ACOUSTIC RESEARCH AR-XB Deluxe 
• Manual Turntable With Damped Cueing. CRAIG 3515 Stereo Cassette Player Under-

AM AM
FRI 599 SAT 539
Dash.
Reg. $139.00 


7-8 7-8 
MEDALLION 65-496 AM/ FM Stereo Cas-QUALITRON 1421 26-Funclion 8-Digit Pro-
AM
FRI AM selle Player In-Dash. Reg. $109.95 579 SAT grammable Scientific Calculator. 599 8-9 8-9 
QUALITRON 1419 22-Funclion 10-Digil SKANDA Deluxe FM Converter.
FRI AM Scientific Calculator With Memory. 569 SAT AM Reg. $29.95 SJ98B 9-10 
SKARDA 666 Compact Stereo Cassette BEARCAT IV Public Service Band Auto·
FRI AM 539 SAT ~~o $139
Player Under-Dash. Reg. $49.95 malic Scanning Monilor. Reg. $179.95 
SALE ENDS SUNDAY, SEPT 28th 817 W. McKINLEY, MISHAWAKA (COLLEGE SQUARE) 


sl\'f111lD1\~ 
PHONE 256-1514 
-
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVE -QUANTITIES LIMITED NlGil'r 
' . 


~ ( 
l ' 

. " ...... 
. ' ' .. .., ' .......·"'·· 
., ..~ . ~ -.. .~ :·
; 


1he Observer 

an independent student newspaper 
Found~ November 3, 1966 
Terry Keeney  Editor-in-chief  
Tom Modglin  Business Manager  
Tom Whel•n  Advertising Manager  

EDrrORIAL BOARD AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; Ken Girouard, News Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil, Features Editor; Chris Smith, Photo Editor 
N~wo: 2!;111~-~I7.!.15!,_____:B:=_:u::;':.:,:in~~':.:."~l:::8~1·:..:.,1.::47..:,1_______---j 
Thursday, September 25,1975 
commentary 'While The Country Sleeps' 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.iiiiiiiiii~ pat ha n ifi n 
During the heyday of radicalism in the Sixties the Ford has properly committed himself to an open black revolutionary Stokley Carmichael proclaimed Presidency. It would be tragic indeed if he had to that "Violence is as 'American as apple pie." Car-spend it addressing crowds from behind bullet-proof michael may have been exaggerating but there is shields and line~ of Secret Service men. indeed a long American tradition of violence--a . tradition disturbingly recalled by two attempted There is probably little ~e can do about remo~mg a_ll ·1ssassinations of President Ford within three weeks. the nuts from our soctety but there certamly ts These attempts are also in another old American something we can do abo~t r~moving most o.f th~ir tradition--the tradition of the nut with a gun. guns. After each assassmatton and assassmahon 
attempt in the past 12 years--Kennedy, King, Kennedy, We may not be able to do much about the nuts but the Wallace and now Ford--there has been an outcry from tradition of the gun is one that we can and should drop. the public for stiffer gun-control laws. But after each assassination and attempt the outcry has died down 
Political violence in American history may be and the gun lobbies have resumed their quiet work of roughly split into two types. Ther~ is the c~refully pressuring Congress into killing or fatally wounding planned, usually large-group VIOlence dtrected every gun cor1 trol bill proposed. "The interests are towards an achievable end, the most notable examples alwa,·s awake." the great Prime Minister William being the Revolutionary and Civil Wars. The second Gladstone said a century ago, "while the country often kind of political violence is the variety carried out by slumbPrs and sleeps." small groups or individuals from the lunatic f~inges of . society. This violence is the last refuge of f~Ilures--<Jf !he arguments of the antt-control.lo?by have worn individuals who could not make it in society or of thm through repeated and unconvmcmg use. The splinter groups whose ideologies have failed to con-citizen who buys a gun, especially a hand gun, for vince the public. protection is much more likely to kill a member of his 
own family than a mugger. It seems more than a bit 
Squeaky Fromme was a follower of mass murderer anachronistic in the 1970's to leave the enforcement of Charles Manson, a particularly vicious remnant of the the law to the outcome of thousands of gunfights bet­Flower Generation. Sarah Moore was "on the fringes" ween amateur gun-<Jwners and professional criminals. of several fringe groups, such as the SLA, the debris of The cry of the hunter and sportsman would be more the failed "revolution" of the Sixties. Abraham Lin-convincing if the hunter killed fewer of his fellows by coin was assassinated by Confederate sympathizer misdirected gunfire and if there was more "sport" in John Wilkes Booth when the final futility of the Con-blowing out the brains of a defenseless deer. <Of federate cause became apparent. course, to be truly sporting the hunter should be willing 
to arrange things so that the beast has as fair a chance 
Goal-directed, large-group violence may be difficult of killing the hunter as the hunter has of killing the to fight due to its size but at least it is rational enough beast.) for its strategy to be predictable and hence preven­
table. But the lunatic fringe variety is by its nature Not all guns can be removed from private hands but 
irrational and springs from individuals or small groups enough can be eliminated to cut down the carnage. 
lost in a society of millions. So the Secret Service and The only members of a supposedly civilized society 
FBI are reduced to making composites of theoretically who have any business carrying guns are the law 
typical assassin types and keeping lists of tens of enforcement officers who are specially charged with 
thousands of suspicious characters. and trained for controlling the uncivilized lunatics and 
criminals on the fringes.

One answer to the nut with a gun is to keep his likely targets, primarily the President, in what would . , . . . amount to protective custody. But our society is a This country s slumb~r IS mcreasmgly costly. It ~a.s democracy and committed to an open political process. already cost us a President, A Senator, a great ctvtl 
rights leader and tens of thousands of ordinary 
citizens. It has nearly cost us another President, a 
We have just come through-the experience of Governor and thousands of other citizens. It may well Watergate which demonstrated what can happen when' cost us what is left of our open society. the President cuts himself off from the people. Jerry 

"I know it takes longer. but I like to feed the little darlings one at a time." 


outrider Ford And Truman garry wills 
It is mandatory for a modern president to choose a patron saint frrm his predecessors. A newly--elected president puts himself under \he astrological "sign" of an earlier holder of his office. The effect is of a royal succession--and often, of a restoration. 
Of course, earlier presidents gave credit to the giants of their party, and honored living ex-presidents. But the new trend goes beyond this. As 
with  so  many  aspects  of  the  imperial presidency,  John  Kennedy  
established the present  emphasis.  
He made a  theatrical effort to recreate the New Deal as  the New  

Frontier.. Court historian Arthur Schlesinger was hired to keep people reminded of any parallels between FOR and JFK.. But a hundred days became the thousand days, and the Brain 'Trust became the Best and the Brightest. FOR's place in history is secure; JFK's is unestablished yet. 
Lyndon Johnson lived in Kennedy's shadow, but plaintively suggested that he was the true son of the New Deal.. Kennedy was interested in foreign policy. The Great Society would bring the compassion of the New Deal gack to domestic affairs, lifting people from the ghettos as Franklin Roosevelt had lifted Johnson's generation in the poor rural areas. 
Nixon broke the party mold to make Woodrow Wilson his patron. William Safire collected Wilson quotes for the Nixon speeches, and a fake relic---"the Wilson desk"--was dug up and invoked for Nixon's own war to end wars, the bombings that would bring us a generation of peace. 
Ford, too, has crossed party lines. The icon of Truman was moved into his office .. Merle Miller's "Plain Speaking" was in plain view for the man from the New York "Times" to report on in the White House. The Republicans have chosen Kansas City for their convention and pilgrimage to the Truman Library will be made next summer by the Republicans---just as Democrats made the p9lgrimage last December at their Kansas City "mini-convention. " 
The use of patrons to signal one's own view of the presidency is ritualistic--politicians play follow-the-leader even more blindly than journalists do. Still, since it appears that a president must choose someone, his particular choice becomes an indication of personality.. Ford would not have chosen Truman, whom he used to castigate in partisan terms, but for the extraordinary growth of a Truman cult. Yet beyond that there are certain parallels. 
Truman is supposed to have been a dim emmber of Congress until elevated to the presidency by chance, where the office ennobled him. Congressman Ford became almost proverbially dumb, and Truman is the only president in this century who did not go to college. 
There are revealing similarities that Ford obviously did not intend when he chose Truman as his mode. Professor Gaddis Smith, in the official biographical series of the Secretaries of State, describes how Dean Acheson became the acting president for foreign affairs under Truman--and Ford has made Henry Kissinger the equivalent in his regime. 
Truman was blindly loyal to cronies, and had been the errand boy and "clean"' frontman for Boss Tom Pendergast, who launched Truman's career. Ford has been a party hack, serving Nixon, Mitchell and Agnew in the most distasteful roles, and he shows an odd reliance on shadowy figures like lawyer Benton Becker for the most delicate tasks. 
Ford presented himself, at his vice presidential confirmation hearings, as the innocent dupe of a lobbyist named Winterberger , going to visit a controversial New York psychiatrist just to please this delicate acquaintance. One senator asked how Ford planned to say no to world leaders of great stature when he seemed incapable of saying no to any lobbyist who wandered into his office. 
Good old Jerry Ford is not a good old Harry when it comes to giving men hell--but there are revealing similarities. That will comfort those engaged in late and selective praises of Truman. Others remember that Truman initiated all the major cold-war offensives that have come back to haunt us <as in the current CIA investigations). 
I agree with Mr. Ford that he resembles Harry Truman in some ways. But i do not find the points of comparison flattering. 
the observer 

Night Editor: Val Zurblis Sports: Bill Brink, Ernie (the 
Assistant Night Editor: Bob Brink Bull) Torriero, Tom Kruczek Layout Staff: Liz Donovan, Bob Typists: Howard Halle, Kathy Piller, Gail Delasho, John Calcutt, Hinks, Terri Harlan, N. Viii 
Mickey Klein, Jim Stevens Ace Cornu-engineer: Carolina 
Day Editor: Mary Reher Night Controller: D. Rust Copy Reader: Don Reimer Editorials: Eo Features: Tom O'Neil Ad Layout: Joe Graif, 

I 

Thursday, September 25, 1975 
the observer

[movies] 
~rollerball': sport of the future or fantasy of today? 
a rev1ew by missy heard 
The individual against society; how many logical reason why he should. Rollerball is 
puppets used by the directors. There is no 
entire stand of tall pine trees, laughing
times have we studied that theme in our more than a game to him, it is his life. The memory of life before the corporations, and 
hysterically all the time. Director Norman 
high school English classes? "Rollerball" corporation tries to force Jonathan into 
Jonathan, though he searches, can find 
Jewison has not shown us a Flash Gordon
examines it in an original fashion, by retirement by removing more rules with neither data or books. 
type of future,but a startling and believable 
showing through the medium of sports in the each new game, making the game even 
portrait of what may come.

future. Rollerball is an extremely violent more deadly than before. In these games, 
game. It's a combination of football, motorcycling and roller derby. Jonathan E. (James Caan>is the champion player of the Houston team and of the international competition. 
At this time in the future, the world has no wars, states, or nations. It is under the control of business corporations, headed by a board of directors. It is a world-wide monopoly. 
The directors tell Jonathan E. that he must retire at the peak of his career. He refuses on the grounds that he is given no 
,. ..... i~ ·~"t 
~ 
~~~~~·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~andis~nt ~asa~~rium ~Ita~~ no~ 
his teammates and others are killed and maimed but he continues to refuse retirement. In the rollerball finals, Houston plays New York and all rules are om­mitted. It is at this point, Jonathan realizes the reason why he is being forced into retirement. The directors are afraid of 
what he is becoming: a world-wide figure of individualism. And he also realizes, in this final game, he must either win or die. 
Throughout the· movie, the individual is deemphasized. Women are painted toys passed from man to man and men are 
, f_,.. ~


II tb II
'nt e r,a I0 0 a 
refuge for frustrated jocks 
With the turning of the leaves, the football spirit comes to the Notre Dame campus, not only in the form of the Fighting Irish, but also in the form of the Interhall Football Program. Though it lacks some of the thrill and excitement stimulated by the notorious Fighting Irish, Interhall football is by no means less competitive or contentious. 
According to Mr. D. Napolitano, Director of Intermural Sports, Interhall football has been in existance for all of the forty-eight years that he has been at Notre Dame and some years before that also. The program was instituted by the late Knute Rockne for the purpose of providing any student not of the caliber required by intercollegiate sports, with the opportunity to play organized, full-padded, tackle football during their college careers. Since then the program has achieved its goal by providing an estimated five hundred students with this opportunity annually. 
The program is sponsored by the Department of Non-varsity Sports. It functions to provide the financial backing for the program along with providing the officials for the games and the fields on which the games are played. . . The department also provides every player with a fully equiped uniform at no expense of the student. 
The league itself is divided into two separate divisions, which are basically designated according to quads. The teams competing in the North Quad Division are Keenan, Stanford, Cavanaugh, Zahm, Holy Cross, Grace·· and Flanner. Morrissey, Howard St. Edward's, ~rin, Pangborn, Fisher, Alumni, Dillion, and Off-Campus compose the eight teams in the South quad. During regular season play, each team confronts all of the other teams in its own division only once. No interdivision games are played during the regular schedule. However, at the end of the season the top two teams from both divisions meet in a play-off series for the championship. This 
ear the regular season begins on Sundav. 
... 

nick di giouine 
September 28 and will run through November second. The play-off games will be held on November fifth, ninth, and twelfth. All games will be played on either the astroturf at Cartier Field of at Stephen Center. 
Inorder to prevent injuries, certain rule changes were instituted. Because a majority of injuries acquired during a football game were done so during the kick­offs, a rule change was initiated that eliminated kick-offs. Instead, the team that would have normally received the kick-off simply would begin play on the twenty yard line. Another safety measure introduced was the idea of'rt.mning time'. This alteration eliminated time-outs and per­
mitted stopping.  the clock  to  run steadily  without  
The  students  who  participate  in  this  

program are what many people term as 'frustrated jocks'. ·They are largely former high school athletes, many of whom were quite good in their respective high schools and states. They have turned to Interhall football either because they have not had the opportunity to play foofball on an intercollegiate level or because they have no desire to play college football, but still wish to stay in shape. Because of the 
rivalries that have developed over the years, the players regard the games very seriously and with an extremely com­petitive attitude. 
Notre Dame's Inter hall Football Program separates it from other colleges and universities because of the program's sucessfulness and the enthusiasm with which it is received by the participating students. Only the intermural programs in the service schools and a few other select universities are comparable to Notre Dame's. 
The Interhall Football Program is only one 'Jf the fifteen or sixteen programs that tht Department of Non-v&rsity Sports sponsors for the benifit of the students of Notre Dame. 
The camera swings from the "beautiful life"--vast arenas, huge buildings, gleaming helicopters--to the life of the roller ball player--blood, burning motor­cycles and death. The costuming is significant, the dress of the masses is muted with dull colors--black, gray, lavender, while the dress of the rollerballers is bright orange, blue and green. One particularly symbolic scene, which shows the wastefulness fof the society and the in­dividual, takes place at 1 society party. A group of people from the party take flame­throwing gun and burn down, one by one, an 
1 movies l



a brief uacation: 
,

c1nema greatness-­de sica's last encore 
Vittorio De Sica had been, in his lifetime, refreshing, and a professionally rendered one of the most internationally celebrated portrait of a woman released from the directors in motion picture history. He died chains of her responsible love and coin­last November at the age of 72, and had left • ciding sacrifice. 
behind him a film which has just been released in the United States, A Brief Vacation, a movie that has been called "a monumental testament to his life and work." And indeed it is. 
The plot of the movie concerns Clara, a woman who has suffered extensively in the grip of social injustice. She is a wife and mother who is sincerely devoted to her family and leaves every morning to work at a factory to help sustain them. One day at work, however, she collapses from fatigue, 
thern mountains and, once there, ex­
ro~~e:u~~~~e~~"brief vacation the movie 

Florinda Bolkan 
Her brief vacation includes, of course, an equally brief romance with a youthful day­dreamer, the richness of music and the solitude of quiet hours of reading. Recovery from her affliction is inevitable, however, and she returns in the end to her dismal homelife with compassion, energy and insight. 
But the film, for the most part, escapes from being cliche and melodramatic. It is 
It is a violent movie. At the end of each rollerbc:ll game, we are sickened by the sight of men left bleeding, crushed and dead. But the violence is not only evident in the rollerball arena, it is on the outside, with its degradation and suffocation of the in­dividual. It is an obvious movie. You don't have to look for hidden meanings, it is there staring you in the face, as a motorcycle runs over a man in order to get a ball in the goal. It is a new approach tc the theme. At the end, we are left shocked, yet pleased at Jonathan's victory. The individual has triumphed over the corporation. 

Clara is portray£ l by Flori"''ia Bolkan in a performance of sensitivf' tJtlety and ex­pressive silences. For . ars Bolkan had been a famous and c. tically-praised ac­tress in Europe, but fini.lily s~.e has merited all the incense and acclaim she has received from her admirers. Her performance is splendid and dimensiona~. 
The only difficulty which accompanies a viewing of this film, however, is that it is not an American film and ultimately not in the style of American movie-making. Foreign films tend to work less abundantly with dialogue, and explore the field ·of visual dynamics to render the emotional qualities which the movie transmits. But this is not an impediment to those accustomed to foreign films, and for those unaccustomed, this movie is an excellent introduction. The film is dubbed in English, but due to the professionalism of its authors, it is less than bothersome. 
A Brief Vacation is quickly becoming a "long-run" movie at many theaters across 
-the U.S. In Chicago it showed for eleven weeks and now it has finally come to the South Bend area. It opens at the Forum Theater tomorrow night, and is restricted by its distributors to a one week engagement. For the real followers of the art of professional film-making, this is the movie of 1975. 
Thomas O'Neil 

Scene frOm A Brief Vacation 

'I 
' 
10 the observer Thursday, September 2S, 1975 
' 
,. 
CIA adinits openingprivateInail 

,, 
WASHINGTON <AP) -The Central Intelligence Agency regularly opened and read the mail of prominent Americans and once intercepted a letter addressed to Richard M. Nixon, as part of its 20-year mail sur­veillance program, the chair­
•nan of the Senate Intelligence 'ommittee said today. 
Chairman Frank Church, who St.. id at least one of his own let­ten; was opened by the CIA, said investigators for his com­mittee found names of individ­uals whose mail was inter­cepted while exammmg CIA files on its mail opening pro­gram. "It's a big file," Church said. ~· In addition to Nixon, Church said the mail of Sens. Edward 
M. Kennedy and Hubert H. Humphrey, D-Minn., Rep. Bella Abzug, D-N.Y., the late civil rights leader Martin Luther King and his wife, former West Virginia Secretary of State John D. Rockefeller IV, Feder­al Reserve Board Chairman Ar­thur Burns, the Ford Founda­tion, Harvard University and the Rockefeller Foundation also was opened. 
Church read a statement to the committee which said the mail of prominent Americans was "regularly opened and scrutinized by the CIA." 
Pressed by newsmen on the matter of Nixon's mail, Church said he knew of only one inter­
cepted letter. It was sent in June 1968 by Raymond Price 
from  the  Soviet  Union.  It  was  
addressed  to  Nixon's  New  York  
law  firm  and  commented  on  

Nixon's election prospects at the time when Nixon was a candidate for the Republican presidential nomination. Price later became a White House speechwriter. 
Asked whether the other Americans he cited were sub­jected to one mail intercept, Church replied, "In some cases they appear to be single letters and in some cases they appear to be a series of letters." 
Earlier, in elaborating to newsmen on Church's state­ment, a committee spokesman 
Conflictingcourt orders 
Bail set for Hearst allies 
REDWOOD CITY, Calif. ( AP l -Bail was set at $500,000 each for William and Emily Barris, traveling comrades of fatricia Hearst, at a confused cot1rt hearing Wednesday. 
Conflicting court orders tem­pvrarily disrupted plans to transfer the two Symbionese Liberation Army members to Los Angeles later Wednesday to face arraignment there on 18 state felony charges. 
But one of the conflicting or­ders was withdrawn and offi­cials said the transfer would take place as scheduled. 
The Harrises, arrested in San Francisco last week, are being held on a variety of charges growing out of a shooting at a Los Angeles sporting goods store May 16, 1974. 
The charges include kidnap­ing, robbery, car theft and as­sault with intent to commit mt~rder. Federal weapons charges against the two were dropped Tuesday, paving the way for early prosecution of the state case. 
The "'500,000 bail on the feder­al charges was replaced by the $500,000 bail on the state counts. 
The Harrises' attorney, Anne Flower Cuming, presented Mu­nicipal Court Judge Wilbur Johnson with an order from a San Francisco judge directing the two to appear in San Fran­cisco Thursday morning. 
"I  don't  have  the  slighest  
idea  what  the  order  is  for,"  
was  Judge  Johnson's  reaction  
during  the  five-minute  court  

session. 
Johnson did not rule on the order immediately, saying he wanted to study it. 
Contacted in San Francisco, Superior Court Judge Claude Pera so, who issued the order, said shortly after the hearing that he had canceled his order, because it was a mistake. 
"It would appear that the ac­"That order is moot. I wasn't tion by the San Francisco Supe­aware of the hearing in San rior Court judge clears up anyMateo County," he said. 
confusion in this situation," heSan Mateo County Dist. Atty. 
Keith Sorenson said Peraso's said. "The Los A11geles author­
canceling his order cleared up ities are free to pick up the Harrises at (lnj' time."
the confusion. 
Nixonasked to testily 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The in a number of areas, including Senate Intelligence Committee the background of the so-called agreed unanimously Wednesday Huston plan to give U.S. in­to ask former President Rich­telligence agencies broad do­ard M. Nixon to testify on a mestic power. ' broad range of subjects relat­Vice chairman John Tower, ing to its investigation of im­R-Texas, said the question of proper domestic activities by subpoenaing Nixon did not 
U.S. agencies. come up because the com­
Chairman Frank Church, D­mittee at this time does not Idaho, said the committee's wish to "escalate the rhetoric" chief counsel was instructed to and possibly provoke a drawn­open negotiations with Nixon's out court battle. lawyers to secure his appear­Church said he couldn't com­ance. ment" as to when or where or in 
Church said that after a what manner Nixon might be closed-door discussion com­asked to appear because he mittee members felt that Nixon said that would be a subject for himself was the "best witness" negotiations. 
Fan1ed pianiststo perform 
Frances and Richard Hadden, The Haddens in 1972 were invited 
duo-pianists, will present their by Premier Chou En-lai to visit the 
widely acclaimed Peking People's Republic of China and 
Premiere Concert during a Notre their show, "Bach to Rock and 
Dame appearance at 8:15 p.m. Back," was hailed by the world 
Wednesday Wct.1). press as the first performing artist 
Admission for the program in the presentation since 1949. 
Memorial Library Auditorium is $1 They were the guests of th 
and the concert is open to the premier at a dinner in the Great 
public. Hall andwere honored by a three­
The husband and wife team have hour interview with the wife of 
been featured performers on the Chairman Mao. 
"Today ' television show, and their Their Notre Dame performance 
Town Hall and college recitals of the "Peking Premiere" will 
have been attended by capacity contain 45 minutes of the concert 
audiences. They also provided performed for the Chinese 
the entertainment at a recent dignitaries. It is sponsored jointly 
White House reception honoring by the Notre Dame Music 
Prime Minister Bhutto of Department and the Office of 
Pakistan. Student Affairs. 
in the plush New Orleans Room now appearing in the Mail Pouch Hoom 
George Graves 
MARTIN & LINDSEY with NIGHTLIFE 
(This weekend -no cover charge with student I.D.) 
HAPPY HOUR Mon.-fri. 4:00-7:30 LADIES' NIGHT Tues. 8:00-10:00 MEN'S NIGHT Thurs. 8:00-10:00 
EVERY MONDAY-REDUCED PRICES ON BEER AND BAR DRINKS 
Appropriate attire required for admittance 

PIZZAS, SNACKS & SANDWICHES SERVED ANYTIME 
7 ft. TV screen for Monday night football. 
EIJIE~••ica'TH•E 5HEADQueoARTER$A w•• 
. ~· · · ;::-~ . . . · ..AlKMOR PLAZA, BRISTOl ST. (IYPASS 11 '2) ELXHART 
'/ 
. ­
~ •' t J 
· 
.. 


said Nixon's mail had been opened both before and while he was president. Later, how­ever, the spokesman said he was in error and that he knew of only one letter to Nixon 
which had  been  intercepted,  the  
June  1968  letter.  The  spokes­ 
man  also  retracted  his  state­ 
ment  that  mail  of  other  presi­ 

dents had, been opened as well. 
Church's statement that the mail of prominent Americans others was opened regularly was contained in a statement he read before the committee. 
In response to Church's state­ment, CIA spokesman Dennis Berend said, "The agency does 

not comment on things that are 
before the committee." 

The White House also had no 
immediate comment. 

Dan Steiner, legal counsel for Harvard Univerity, said that "If this has been going on, we would find the practice highly ob~ectionable and extreme in­terference with the university." Bel::~ Abzug said, "I never thout.ht that Richard Nixon and I would have anything in com­mon B11t ;t just goes to show that no Amedcan is safe from the CIA's ma'l snooping and other 
monstrous illegal actions. 
THURSDAY NIGHT IS 


only  1 2  mile  Southeast ·of  
campus  
(across  from  Kentucky  
Fried  Chicken  and  the  
linebacker)  FOR  
MICHAE~S  MEN  
..  For Appt. 27:!.-7222  






J.G'EILS 
SATURDAY OCT 'I 7:30PM 

NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
Reserved Seats $7 50. $6.50. $5.50. Available aJ Notre Dame ACC..N.D. ·Student Union: St. Joseph's Bank & Branches. First Bank (main office only) 
Robertson's (So. Bend & Elkhart) and Elkhart Truth. 
~ ~ ~ : 

• .... ,. • Ill' •.•, ., ........, ..,. 1y --... --...,
,_._1"'& -• • o••' -•~• '~·~··· ~ 

Thursday, September 2S, 1975 the observer 1 1 
Energy stamp proposal cut off 
Wiecking of the Citizen's Ener­heat, light and refrigeration. Those who use more that the
INDIANAPOLIS <AP) -A especially ones "dealing with the 
gy Coalition, said the stamps "Energy stamps will further lifeline amount would still bene­
Hgislative study committee has PSC.
would be a direct subsidy to distort the existing problems fit from the more progressive
!bart-circuited a proposal to The Legislative Council esti­
utilities. At Wednesday's hear­with utility rate structures and rate structure," he said.
i1and out energy stamps to mated the job would take three
ing, he presented an alternative will ultimately promote the Public Service Commission 
11eedy persons in a manner years and the services of an
plan that would set a low rate
5imilar to food stamps. consumption of more elec­Chairman Larry Wallace op­additional full-time attorney.
for a basic amount of elec­tricity, rather than providing posed Wiecking's idea. He s~id
"We just don't have strong Gardner said he took a dim
tricity. He called it a "lifeline any incentive for con­it would amount to a subsidy
enough support for the con­view of the council's time esti­
utility rate program. servation," he said. for the rich as well as the poor.
cept," Sen. James A. Gardner, mate.
"It means setting a per­He said that under existing Wallace said energy stamps
the committee chairman said "I just can't visualize the Wednesday. manent, low ceiling for an an rate structures, the more elec­were a better way to attack the council saying we'll have to 
amount of about 300-600 kilo­tricity used, the less it costs problem.
Gardner, a Fowler Republi­wait a couple of years. We're 
watt hours of elctricity per per kilowatt hour. He said that Gardner said a final decision
can, said he was concerned going to have people out there
month" and charging higher is backwards from what it on how best to provide power
about the cost of the program, who are going to be a little 
rates for power used in excess should be. for the poor would be made at
consumer group opposition and chilly this year and I don't ex­
of that amount, Wiecking said. "Those who use small the Oct. 15 meeting.
the lack of benefits to poor per­pect them to understand a two
He said that much electricity amounts of electricity would The committee voted to re-
sons under 65. or three year wait," he said.
would cover the basics, such as have their overall bills lowered. codify utility regulation' laws,
At an earlier hearing, Fritz 
rAPPii~tio~sb;i~ 7ake~Se;t:24:2sl
Ali, preparing for Frazier, :for a College of Science representative: f to the Academic Council. f
denies charges of gun-toting 
fAny intrested Science or Science -intent f 
mANILA <AP) Muham-..
''There are many pretty girls "It was silly for Frazier to
mad Ali took time out from his f should submit his name and brief f
in my camp. Women are al­get so upset. He's just scared
fight preparations Tuesday to 
ways around me. of me, that's all."
nail what he calls two deliber­t statement of purpose to the f 
"My wife knows about Vero­ate smears on his character. 
nica," he added. "They travel f Science Council Nominating Committee, f
He is not, he says, a wild, reckless gun-toter. And he is together.'' Oriole's Palmer 
He said he resented intrusion 
L--~~~~ of Science Office 
not, he says, a bigamist. 
upon his privacy.
"People want to mar me be­
"I don't know of any young defeats Tigerscause I am so clean," he said man, black or white, whoafter a two-hour workout for 
-
doesn't have a g1rl friend on BALTIMORE <AP) Balti­jhis Oct. 1 <Sept. 30 in United the side," he said. "If I got more's Jim Palmer notched his j

REGAL

States) heavyweight title de­
one, it is nobvdy's business. 22nd victory, beating the De­Ifense against Joe Frazier. 
troit Tigers 8-1 Wednesday"I'll tell you, I won't worry"First, they get on me for night and the Orioles movedabout who you sleep with if you
avoiding the draft, then my re­within 31 2 games of first-place LOUNGE & LANES 1 
won't worty about who sleepsligion, then my name. Nobody's Boston in the American Leaguewith me."
got a right to know what I do Ali, draped in a white robe, East.
behind closed doors." BAND THIS WEEKEND i 
The second game of the
sat on his rtd-upholsteredThe reference was to Ali's 
scheduled twi-night double­
"throne" and addressed him­link with a svelte California 
self freely to the delicate sub­header was postponed and will ''HIGH WATER''
model named Veronica be made up as part of a twi­ject of his private life and thePorsche, frequently seen in his nighter Thursday.
gun-snap,ing trick which
company here and at other Boston was rained out of itscreated rr.ild panic in the Fra­
fights. zier camp. scl1eduled twi-night double­OPEN BOWLING
At a reception given by Pres­header with the New York Yan­
ident Ferdinand Marcos last "It was r toy cap pistol," he THIS SAT. & SUN.
k<>es. and its magic number for
week for the fighters, Veronica said, explaming his gun-flash­title re­
clinching the division 
was introduced as Ali's wife. ing charat!e outside Frazier's mainPd at four. AFTER 8:30 P.M. Since then, Manila newspapers hotel earlier in he week, caus­
With the score tied 1-1 in the have photographed her often ing the cha!leng"'r considerable fifth. Baltimore scored fiveand referred to her as Mrs. Ali, concern. 
timt>s to chase loser Joe Cole­1121 WEST 8th ST.
with a Muslim name, Kahlila. "I bought it 1rom a small boy 
man. 10-18. Paul Blair and Lee "I have one wife, Belinda, for 50 pesos (about $7). I i\1av each contributed a two-run -MISHAWAKA­
the mother of my four chil­wouldn't shoot .\ real pistol. Ev­single to the rally.
dren," Ali said. "Kahlila is Be­eryone knows I 1m 1~ot a vio­Blair also drove home one of linda's Muslim name. What do lent man. I refuser! to ~o to the 
Baltimore's runs in the sixth 
2

I need with two wives? Vietnam war. 
off Lt'rrin LaGrow. 
Typing: Experienced in Senior Essays, dissertations, etc. 

WANTED 
Reasonable, accurate. 232-5715.

CLASSIFIED ADS 
Need two tickets to Northwestern. 
Ride Greyhound to Chicago everyCall 7471. 

Fri. 4:45. Main Circle. Call Tm 8338. Need 1 ticket for U~C dOd Navy. Needed: 1 student or GA ticket to Desperately need ONE Nor­For sale: two racquetball 
thwestern ticket. Call 4008. racquets. $5 each. Sony 5" TV $100.
Call Jeff, 1075. the USC game. Please calli Ellen Sunflower Music Shop. Vintage
HP-45 calculator, does standard
at 277-0794. 
stringed instruments. Expert

2 GA tix for MSU-wanted. Cash or Wanted: 1Mich. State ticket and 3 deviation, great for psych, repair. Books, records, and ac­trade student tix for other games. So. Cal. tickets. Call Dan, 1219. statistics, physics courses. $225 or
DESPERATELY NEED: USC 
cessories. 632 Portage Ave.

offer. Write 302 Fisher. Phone
289-4350. Tickets. Will pay well. Call 7937, please. Desperately need ride to Cin­1945. 
Bike repairs and new and used

Need 2 Navy GA tix's. Will pay, cinnati, Ohio this weedend. Please 
parts. Simplex Der .$5_ and Sun­

call Debbie, 272-8782. Fori sale 1 senior season ticket.
call Jim, 272-6792. Need on NU and 2 MSU fix's. Call tour Der. Allo11 for $7.50; EricCall 3149.
Mary, 1285. 
Tweedell, 3634.

Desperately need GA tix to Mich. Need 2 or 3 GA tickets to MSU. State. As many as 6. Call Steve at Need 2 tix's for Pitt game. Call Call Mark, 1475. For Sale: Macrame jewelry, 
Anyone experienced in in doing

8624. Will pay $$. Ralph, 8326. bracelets, and necklaces, plant work on outboard motors for pay
Need four tickets to USC game. hangers. Also crocheted scarves. 
contact John. 287-2603. 
.

Need four Chicago tickets. Call Wanted: Two tickets to Mich. State Call Vickie, 3567. Call Barb, 233-3876. 3537, ask for Matt. game. Call Tom at 288-8417. 
FOR RENT

Need '4 GA tix's for Northwestern, For Sale: Sturdy bar, 54" long with 
I 

Need 4 MSU and USC tickets. Call 3 students looking for 4th room­14 GA tix's for So. Cal. game. 3 bar stools, standard height, Grad student (Law) desires safe,3648. mate at Campus View. 211-2701. Na.me your price $60.00. 2 folding beds with 6'' quiet housing near campus with
Mary 272-4733. mattresses. $10.00 each. Wooden 
other(s). Call Doug, 6-8:00 pm. 234­

Need 4 USC and 5 Navy tickets. Need 2 tix's to any home game. frame for couch -needs foam 2284, References.
Will pay well. Please calli 5168. Mary Louise, phone 7308. Need 4 Northwestern tix's. Call cushions SS.OO.'Call 288-5793. Mike, 287-3897. 
For Rent: Students or fa~ulty, 53 GA tickets for Northwestern Desperately need 3 GA or student NOTICES 
rooms furnished private, Utilities 

needed. Call 288-3073. tickets for MSU. Call Mary Kay, Need 3 tickets for Michigan State furnished. Security depo!>it, Near 6804. game. Call Mike after 6 pm, 288-Free: Darling kittens to a good Capus. 1002 Campeau St. Cll 234·
Good money paid for any home 0088 home. 6 wks. old. Call 233-8570, 
7925.

after s pm.
tickets. Call John, 1816. Need 2 GA tix to Michigan, call 5361. SMC Coffeehouse needs all types of 
I
Room for rent. S50 a month. Share 

Wanted: three MSU tickets. Talent. If you can perform, be a Men's shirts, women's clothing, kitchen and bath with one other 
Please Call Mark, 256-1206. Sex is nice, but I desperately need sound technician or like to hostess, liquid silver, turquoise, plants, ., •
student. Call 232-9311 or 289-9533.

please call Jeanie . 4386 or Tom leather goods -Jennifer's, 119 w. •
1 MSU ticket even more. Danny, 
8736. Colfax, 11:00 -5:30, Mon.-Sat.
Needed: 4 tickets to Pittsburgh 8102. 
LOST & FOUND game_ Call 4300. Bio Club T-shirts arriving within
Need 2 GA Navy tix's. Call Kevin FOR SALE Lost: Gold Bulova-Caravelle
the w~ek. Orders now being taken.
Need 2 So. Cal. tix's. Call Murph, 8720. 
watch with football inscr~bed on

107 Galvin, Mon-Thurs. 2:00-4:30
287-0742. For Sale: 1971 Triumph TR 6. the face in the South Dining Hall. If
until Oct. 2. Only $2.80.
Need 7 GA tickets for Nor­Steel belted Radial tires. Call 272-found call John, 1169. Need 3 NW and 2 MSU tickets Call thwestern. Call Bill, 8686. 2844 after 5 pm. Hunger Concern Week: Show
Alice, 5494. 
Found: One little white kitten.

yourself by signing fasting pledge
Wanted: 2 General Ad. SC tickets. · ACS lab aprons on sale in 126 Please hurry and claim because ~ 
at dinner on Thursday.
Need 2 GA Northwestern tickets. Call6885. Nieuwland and freshman labs. 
housemate hates it. Chester 288-' 

Call Paul, 3018. Only $3. 
4217.

Accurate, fast typing, Mrs. I 
Need two tix's to NW and Mich. 
Donoho, 232-1746.
Need 2 the's to So. Cal. or Georgia State. Will pay. Call 291-3075 For Sale: Compact stereo PERSONALS Tech. Call Ron, 3374. before noon or after 6:00 pm. speaders,. headphones. $50. Call 
Quick Loans. Morrissey Lan Fund.
7875. B. B.
Up to $150. 30 days, 1 percent in­
Needed as many GA MSU tix's as Need 4 GA tix's for Georgia Tech. Ciao. How about some spagh~tti ~ 
possible. $$$. 289-9164. game. Call 5740. terest. Basement of LaFortune. Ragazza?M-F, 11:15-12:15. 
r.c: 


' 
'I
1 '\ ~ ~ '/<, 

12 the observer Thursday, September 25, 1975 
) 
Mark McLane: Mr. De......endabilty 
by Ernie Torriero 
It is midway through the second quarter on Monday night Sep­tember 15 and the Irish face a first and ten situation at the midfield mark. Rick Slager wheels around and gives the ball off to junior halfback Mark McLane who churns his way down to the Boston College nine yard line. On the next play, MeLane takes a Slager pitch 
,. out down to the four yard line. Four plays later, Dave Reeve kicks a field goal and the Irish have their first three points of the season. After the game, the members of
'· ' media congregate around quar­terback Slager. McLane is left to dress quietly, sometimes fielding a few queries from interested sportwriters. But such is the anonymity of Mark McLane; a fact of life that comes from playing between a speedster like Al Hunter and a sensational newcomer like Jim Browner. "That doesn't really bother me," says the 6-1, 200 pound McLane. "I'm not a speedy type of runner. I'm more of a power back. Maybe since I am that type of runner it leads to obscurity among the press. But I'm just glad to be starting." 
If you talk to McLane's backfield coach, Hank Kuhlmann, you'll find that McLane is a vital cog in the Notre Dame offensive schema. In fact, in certain situations Mark may be the main player counted on to make a play work. 

"What the public looks for in a 
back and what a coach wants fr<>m 
his player are two different 
things," explained Kuhlmann. "A 
back must do more than just run. 
We look for a back who is con-
sistent." 
McLane, a Wilmington, 
people op­
ponents staring down at me. It was 
then that I realized what it all 
·( 
meant. The full impact of what it's 
*Observer
1 


University of Alabama 
t 
J 
petitions 48 player limit 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) -A He blocked the NCAA rule from 
~ 
federal appeals court has been
l 
I 
asked to reconsider the ques­tion of whether traveling col­lege football teams must be
ABA's Nets, Nuggets 
limited to 48 players while the home team has 60. In a petition for a rehearing, 
the University of Alabama said
apply to join NBA 
NEW YORK <AP> -The New York Nets and Denver Nuggets of the American Basketball Association will announce
,'~ 
'Thursday morning that they have made application for admission to
( 
the rival National Basketball 
' Association, The Associated Press
' 
learned. 
Further, the AP learned that the NHA is inh'rested in having the two dubs join the league, an action that. if it happens, will set off a series of bitter court suits from other ABA owners. 
Sources described to the AP 
Pep rally slated 

for Friday night· 
Dan Devine will be the featured speaker along with Ed Bauer and Jim Stock at Friday night's pep rally at Stepan Center for the Northwestern game. The rally gets under way at 7:00 p.m. with the band stepping off at 6:40 from Washington Hall. 
The band asks that all bikes parked on the side of walkViays where the band will march be removed so that the Irish Guard isn't forced to remove them. 
Halfback Mark Mclane leads Irish rushes with 7.0 yards per carry. (Photo by Paul Joyce) 
like playing at Notre Dame hit 
n1e." 
Unlike many Notre Dame 
players, McLane came to DuLac 
from a small prep school located in 
one of the tiniest states in the 
union. At Salesanium High School 
in Wilmington, Mark led the Sallies 
to the state championship his 
senior year, while being named to 
various all-state and Ali:America 
teams. 
"I don't have a small-state 
complex," McLane countered. 
"We played a representative 
schedule. It was an all-male prep 
school and we did all right in 
football. We played a lot of teams 
in Pennsylvania and in the 
Baltimore area." · 
Mark seems to to like the Devine offensive system a little bit better than the one practiced by Ara. McLane went on the explain, "The audibles are easier to pick up. We use numbers instead of words to 
going into effect. 
As an alternative, the petition asks the appeals court to res­cind its action until after the 1975 football season, "to pre­serve the integrity of the rules of procedure regarding travel squad limits, which have been employed during the season to datP.. 
When the NCAA appealed, 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
' 

Baseball Standings 
By The Associated Press National League East 
W L Pet. GB xPitts 91 67 .576 Philphia 84 74 .532 7 N.York 80 78 .506 11 
St.L'is 
80 79 .503 1111.! Chicago 74 85 .465 l7lf.! Montreal 73 86 .459 l8lf.! 
West xCinci 105 54 .660 L.A. 85 73 .538 19% S.Fran 77 80 .490 27 S.Diego 70 87 .446 34 Atlanta 67 91 .424 37lf.! Houston 63 95 .399 4llf.! x-clinched division title 
Wednesday's Games Chicago 1, New York 0, 11 in­nings Atlanta 7, San Francisco 6, 1st, 11 innings San Francisco at Atlanta 2nd, 
canceled Philadelphia 8, Pittsburgh 1 Montreal 6, St. Louis 2 Cincinnati 6, Houston 4 Los Angeles at San Diego, 
(n) 

By The Associated Press American League East 
W L Pet. GB Boston 93 63 .596 Baltimore 89 66 .574 3lh N.York 80 76 .513 13 Cleveland 77 78 .497 15lf.! Milw'kee 65 94 .409 29lf.! Detroit 57 99 .365 36 
West Oakland 94 63 .599 Kan.City 90 68 .570 4lf.! Texas 77 82 .484 18 Minnesota 74 80 .481 18 Chicago 72 84 .462 2llf.! California 72 86 .456 22lf.! 
Wednesday's Games Baltimore 8, Detroit 1, 1st Detroit at Baltimore 2nd, 
ppd. rain Milwaukee 10, Cleveland 3 Boston at New York, 2, ppd. 
rain Kansas City 4, Minnesota 2 Chicago at Oakland, (n) Only game scheduled 
the New Orleans court over­
turned Pointer's decision until 
the matter could be fully ap­
pealed.  In  effect,  that  reim­ 
posed  the  48-player limit,  which  
the  NCAA  said  would  be  in  ef­ 

feet for this weekend's games. 
The Alabama petition said that because of a clerk's error, the full transcript of the hear­ing before Judge Pointer was not sent to the appeals court. 
describe plays. But basically it 
really is the same system." 
In the event that a game · situation dictates a change in quarterbacks, McLane offers some insight on the problems that a switch of that type may cause. 
"You are going to have some 
problems adjusting from quar­
terback to quarterback," McLane 
said. "Each man reflects his style 
of play. The voice and the timing 
are different'' 

Mark sees a different attitude in 
this year's team as opposed to last 
year's squad. "You have to realize 
that we were coming off a national 
championship,'' observed 
McLane. "We had the tough goal 
of shooting for another national 
title. But this year we have certain 
things to prove." 

McLane views the offense as a unit that is ready to get at any moment. He feels that the offense has the potential to score from anywhere in the field, a phase of the game that the Irish have lacked in past campaigns. 
"We depend on a lot of screens and draws," he explained. "I think that you are going to see more scores from 60-70 yards out than in past years." 
in McLane's mind, the role of the defense is paramount in how the offense performs. "The defense plays a dual role," commented McLane. "We will not get beat if they can hold the opposition to three points a game." 
McLane, who leads the Irish in average yards per carry <7.0), was married in May. "Maybe I'm a little heavier now," Mark joked. "But it hasn't really affected my playing. But living off campus certainly is different." 
When the Irish take the field against Northwestern on Saturday, "Mr. Dependable" Mark McLane will be out there doing his usual steady job of blocking and running, while playing the obscure role that turns a good team into a National Champion, and the players who play with him into superstars. 
Delaware native, seems to fit that image quite well. "Mark is a very consistent football player," Coach Kuhlmann emphasized. "He is a good blocker, a real smart player and a runner that you can count on when you need the essential vardage." · Rick Slager, the offensive field general of the Irish, echoes his coach's sentiments. "Mark is the kind of back that you look for in short yardage situations," Slager pointed out. "He is a very dependable back. One of the main reasons that our sweeps with AI Hunter are so successful is because we like to run that play over McLane's side. He's a real good blocker." 
Last season McLane saw limited action as a reserve alternating in 
the left halfback spot with Ron 
Goodman. In a little over 83 
ninutes of action, he picked up 207 
vards on 42 carries, scoring twice, 
;ncluding once in the big Orange 
Bowl victory. 
"I knew that I got a real shot in 
the chest and I really didn't realize 
thati had scored," said McLane of 
his touchdown against Alabama. 
"I do know that l had to be helped 
up off the ground. I only felt good 
a bout the touchdown when I was in 
the locker room reflecting on the 
game." 
For McLane, his first playing 
experience was a real thrill. "I 
remember that little scenario real well," Mark admitted. "We were on national television and I was back in the kick-off return spot. l was standing all alone with 60,000 
in the stands and 11 
and the NBA which are designed to bring Denver and New York into the older league at the start of the 1976 season as expansion fran­chises. 
The sources said the deal is far from complete but said both sides are serious. The NBA has taken no formal action on the applications, the sources said, but they said there has been serious discussions between the NBA, some of its clubs and ''the two ABA clubs over the fees they would pay to enter the 
Confirmation that the two clubs would make application to the NBA was obtair. '<l from sources high in the ABA nd with several ABA teams. 
Two NBA owenrs confirmea Wednesday night that some discussions had been held with the ~ets and Nuggets. 
Officials of the two clubs were not immediately available for comment. 
lnterhall soccer referees needed 
Anyone interested in refereeing interhall soccer is asked to contact the interhall office. 
the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled on the matter last Wednesday without consid­ering all the information. 
At issue is a new NCAA rule limiting the size of the trav­eling squad to 48 in an effort to cut expenses. U.S. District Judge Sam Pointer said on Sept. 3 the rule was unfair be­cause it allowed home teams to have bigger squads on the field. 
Irish ruggers 
sweep Purdue 
. The Irish football team was not 
the only victonous team in 
Lafayette, Ind. last Saturday af 
ternoon. All three ND rugby squads beat their rivals from P 
_rdue by a combined score of 62-0. 
The A team notched a 16-0 wi 
with Doug Moser scoreing twic 
and Sean McDonald adding on 
goal. Chet Zwalich hit on tw 
conversions. 
The ND B team romped to a 34 shutout. Kevin Deegan had tw scores, as did 'Pinky', and Eri Snyder accounted for 14 points. 
The C team chalked up a 12 victory. 
The ruggers next game is Oc tober 4th when they host Kent Stat before the Mchigan St. footbal game. 






