

by Pat Cuneo Staff Reporter 
Dr. John Duggan, New president of St. Mary's College was inaugurated at a con­celebrated Mass, Sunday in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Bishop Joseph Crowley, Auxilliary Bishop of the Fort Wayne-South Bend Diocese, served as princi~al celebrant. BishopCrowley was jomed by Notre Dame President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Fr. Walter Higgins, Fr. James Kelly, Fr. William Leweres and Fr. James Zatko. A procession of St. Mary's, several teachers, and other clergy also participated in the mass. 
In his homily Bishop Crowley stated, "This is a very religious year with the theme of renewal and reconciliation in the Church. It is also International Women's year." 
Bishop Crowley emphasized that wisdom must not be confused with knowledge as 
Dr. John Duggan, at inauguration ceremony with Sr. Catherine Ford. (Photo by Chris Smith.) 
Mass celebrates event 
wisdom can enable us to apply our ·knowledge and give genuine value to our goals and lives. . . 
Bishop Crowley compared the Holy SJ?Irit 
with a natural force. "We know very little 
about the wind, for example, --where it 
comes from or where it goes--but we wit­
ness its destructive powers in the form of a 
gale, and its beauty in a gentle breeze. In 
the same way, the Holy Spirit can't be seen 
but the effects of its presence are seen all 
around us." 
A blessing of the Presidential Medallion 
also took place during the Mass marking the 
beginning of the 13lst year of the college 
since its founding in 1844. 
The medallion consists of a golden circlet 
embracing a cross at the center of which is 
mounted a disc with the St. Mary's College 
seal emblazoned with gold, silver and blue 
enamel work. 
The Mass of the Holy Spirit, which 
traditionally begins each academic year, 
was followed by a luncheon and inaugural 
ceremonies on the campus lawn. 
Campus life examined again 
Dr. John M. Duggan was inaugurated as the eighth president of St. Mary's College in an hour long ceremony at O'LaughlinAuditorium yesterday.
Sister Catherine Ford, chairman of the Board of Regents, presented the medallion of office to the former vice preseident of 
student affairs fo Vassar College. rejoice," she said, "and ask for blessing."  "We God's  
Duggan's Address  

In his inaugural address, Duggan stressed 
S. Mary's "special kind of education." "St. Mary's is a small liberal arts Catholic college for women," Duggan said. "It is our interpretation of this description that sets St. Mary's apart from other colleges modified by the same set of objectives." 
St. Mary's will remain a small college,Duggan said, in order to "maintain the intimate kind of community" characteristic of the college. He explained his belief that a small college is better able than a large university to monitor itself and make ad­justments. 
"Civility, openness, and un­pretentiousness are not reserved to St. Mary's" he continued, "yet they are qualities which not only colleges but our entire society desperately need." 
Duggan said that he has been told that it is, however, these qualities which have encouraged passivity and a lack of serious qufstioning of the status quo. He stated that grit d manners should not "preclude the \Vi!lorous and sometimes unruly exchange of Ideas...that is, or should be one of the hallmarks of the college experience." 
In regard to St. Mary's Catholic aspect,Dggan said, "We have a special mission: to help develop in our students Catholic educational and cultural traditions, values, and ideas." Many colleges have foresaken their religious identity under secular and financial pressures, Duggan related, whereas St. Mary's has continued working to create "a living Christian community. 
In regard to St. Mary's Catholic aspect, Duggan said, "We have a special mission: to help develop in our students Catholic educational and cultural traditions, values, and ideas." Many colleges have foresaken their religious identity under secular and financial pressures, Duggan related, whereas St. Mary's has contineued working to create "a living Christian community." 
·"Many colleges, reeling from the ef­fects fo change are hoping for a renaissance of decency, civility, and morality," he continued. "Those relatively few colleges 
like St. Mary's that have retained their strong Catholic identity have never lost­these attributes." 
Duggan termed the present "a critical time" in the history of women and pointed out that thereare very few strong women's colleges remaining. "Women ... should not 
should come to St. Mary's for the op­
portunity to study without Shame, seek 
knowledge without apology." 
The new president strongly defended the 
concept of a liberal education. Particularly 
during times of economic recession, the 
liberal arts are "attacked as a pointless, 
frivolous luxury to be enjoyed only by 
those whose livelihoods are guaranteed," he 
said. Calling the dichotomy between the 
specialist and the liberally educated person 
a "straw man", he pointed outthat the 
Studebaker shutdown in South Bend had left 
many jobless. "Developing an educational 
program based squarely on who is em­
ploying what skills is myopic," he related, 
"for when those particular skills are no 
longer required it is the person who 
becomes obsolete." 
Duggan emphasized the need for the 
development of a set of values in each 
student. "An educated'',person must be 
aware of the human consequences of 
choosing from available alternatives." He 
also called for a S<Jial responsibility 
greater than what presently exists. 
"Christian humanism means much more," 
he explained, "It requires the development 
of a sense of social justice more palpable
and enduring than, say, a meaningful and 
relevant liturgy." 
Other Spealters 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Notre Dame 
president, in his invocation prayed that the 
new president would have wisdom to give 
him vision, courage to make difficult 
decisions, and humaneness in God's sight. 
Representatives of the faculty, students, 
alumnae, parents, clergy, the local com­
munity, and higher education in Indiana 
bore greetin:!S to the new president. 
Rita M. Cassidy, chairman of the Faculty 
Assembly, said the faculty would not play 
games of follow the leader and asked for 
dialogue and responsible leadership. She 
stated that the faculty hoped Duggan would 
continue to teach as he has in the past. She 
encouraged the new chief executive to make 
a commitment to the values and ideal of St. 
Mary's. Speaking informally she said, 
"Jack Duggan we like your style and what 
we've seen of you." 
(continued on page 3, col. 1) 

Alcohol legal 
•
lD rOOJDS 
by Shawn Scannell Staff Reporter 

Monday, September 8, 1975
2 
the observer 
warld briefs 
SACRAMENTO, Clllif. (AP)-Manson family member Lynette "Squeaky" Fromme probably 1will follow the pattern set by familyleader Charles Manson oy serving as her own lawyer on a charge of trying to murder President Ford, her best friend says. 
Miss Good 31 who shared an apartment with the 27-year-old Miss From~e. ~uggested that a com,bi!latio!l of frustrations, ~ri­cluding ecology problems and Manson s 1mpr1sonment, drove Mtss Fromme to her drastic action. 
LONDON <AP) -A terrorist bomb exploded in the tourist­packed lobby of London's Hilton Hotel ~t lunchtime F~iday, kill~ng two persons and wounding 49, includmg two Amencans, pohce said. One survivor said, "It was like the end of the world." 
MIDDLE EAST ROUNDUP (AP) -The newspaper of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLQ) denounced Sunday plans to station 200 U.S. surveillance technicians in the Sinai Desert as part of the latest Israeli-Egyptian agreement and urged Arabs to shoot them. 
In Lebanon, 15 persons were kill~d and 36 were w~mnd~d i!l outbursts of fighting between Christians and Moslems m Tnpoh, police reported. State-run television stations announced an emergency cabinet meeting Mondav to deal with the disorders. 
FOREST HILLS, N.Y. <AP) -Eighteen-year-old Martina Navratilova of Czechoslovakia said Sunday she had asked for political asylum in the United States because officials of her country thought she was becoming too Americanized and they were attempting to restrict her tennis career. 
an campus taday 
monday, sept. 8, 1975 
.-.:30 p.m. -reilly lecture series, "formation of molecules in In­terstellar space" by prof. william klemperer, dept. of chemistry, harvard unlv., rm. 123, nieuwl;~nd science hall. 5:30p.m.-circle k club meeting, facutly dining romm, so. dining
hall. 8:30p.m.-film, 'HOLIDAY", o'laughlin aud. 
Relocation of 1nusic depart1nent slated 
Renovation of the 85-year-old Hoynes Hall building, future home of the Notre Dame Music depart­ment will begin next week, an­nounced William Cerny, depart­ment chairman. 
"The contractors will begin taking down the existing walls next week, and we hope to move in before spring semester", Cerny added. Meanwhile the use of the O'Shaughnessy classrooms, presently occupied by the music department, remains under consideration. 
The welcomed renovation will provide three to four times more room to better accommodate the more than 500 students taking music classes. No longer will the choruses and orchestra cram into 242 O'Shaunessy, or beginning pianists need to soft pedal their exercises so as not to disturb neighboring classes next door. Hoynes will be air-conditioned and provide 20 practice rooms, 12 ~ching studios, several depart­mental offices, and a recital hall which will seat an audience of 150. 
An electronic piano system, a new addition, with six keyboards and accompanying headsets, will allow students to practice in the same room together undisturbed,
~ 
! yet allowing the instructor to practice in the same room together undisturbed, 
"The system will definitely aid 


Gus's Pub 
Welcomes All Notre Dame and St. Mary's Students 
Pitcher Night 
Every Tuesday and Thursday 
2447 Miracle Lane Town andCountry Shopping Center 
us in teaching elementary piano classes," Cerny emphasized."This piece of equipment was a true gift to the department." 
Hoynes Hall was built in 1890 to house the Law school. To update plans, the ivy covered building last used by the psychology depart­ment will not include a third floor addition as previously projected, but all walls and ceilings in the existing facility will be effectivelyinsulated. 
Although carpeting and interior decorating is not being talked of just yet, Cerny eagerly awaits the move. "In the future that I can see, this will adequately hold us for years to come." 
the observer 
Night Editor: Tim O'Relley 
Asst. Night Editor: Martha Fanning Layout Staff: Mark Hutton Day Editor: Mary Reher Copy Reader: Jack D'Aurora Features: Tom O'Neil Sports: Bill Brink Typists: Terry Harlan, H. Van Dyke, M. McCarthy, Karen Chlames, Howard Halle 
Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz Night Controller: Howard Halle Ad Layout: Tom Whelan, Joe Graff 

Duffy appointed rectress 
by Pat Mikes Staff Reporter 

Miss Sally Duffy, an Ohio Domincan College graduate assumes the position of rectress of Lewis Hall this year. Lewis Hall, formerly the residence of graduate students, now houses students from Badin Hall. 
Duffy says she has found things rather hectic, particularly lear­ningeverygody's name, and that she must acclimate herself to the idea of having no set hours as a rectress. 
Yet she says, "I don't think I could ask for a better atmosphere to work in. Everybody has been extremely friendly, courteous and helpful." 
Particularly helpful to Duffy has been Sr. Karen Ann Paul, assistant rectress. "Having had previous experience, Sr. Paul has. proven invaluable in acquainting me with registration prlcedures, campus government and my responsibilities as rectress," said Duffy. 
Commenting on her respon­sibilities, Duffy said, "The most important thing is to insure per­sonal and religious growth or the means to attain it for the students." She also noted her responsibility for the personal safety of everyone in the hall and the prevention of building damage. 
Duffy's plans to restructure the hall government, which began last week. She explained, "The hall government should be run by the firls." 
She and hall president Pat Tack have placed more responsibility for hall activity in the hands of the section leaders . In the past, section leaders were merely communication leaders, but this year they will be invovled in the planning of social, athletic, cultural. and commun 
Ms. Sally Duffy (photo by Chris Smith) 
The Observer is published Monday ' through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Unlv. of Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 10 dollars per semester (18 dollars per year) from The Ob­server, Box Q, Notre Dame, In­diana, 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre.Dame, IN 46556.



r-----­

1  ATTENTION  I  
II  FRESHMEN  II  
II  SIGN-UP M"EETING FOR  II  

IFRESHMAN COLLOQUIUMI
ITUESDAY 7:30P.M. RM. 104 b'SHAGI 
II IF YOU MISSED us AT II 
I I 

I REGISTRATION-IT'S STILL I iI NOT TOO LATE! . II 


L---------------------------~------------1 
tivities, she said. butlhopes the student will become 
Duffy says she expects to gain as strongly attached to Lewis the pleasure of meeting new and asthey were to Badin. interesting people, new friends and She added that there have been a the self-satisfaction from helping lot of hard feelings about the move other people through the job. from Badin Hall, but hopes the 
She added that there have been a students will become as strongly lot of hard feelings about attached to Lewis as they were to the move from Badin Hall, Badin. 
fND~CTHEATERTRYOUTS'FOR1 · 
,,. INDIANS ~ 
BY ARTHUR KOPIT 
I 

MON. SEPT. 8th & TUES. SEPT. 9th~ 7-10 pm ~ ALLBACKS WED. SEPT. 1Oth 7 pm~ 
WASHINGTON HALL LAB THEATER !use iron stairs in back) ~ OPEN TO ALL ND & SMC STUDENTS IIIII 
~,,,,,...................... ....................
~"" 

r···wEfcOME··a·A·ci<..sAiE····· 
.
..
.
.
. 

FOLIAGE PLANTS 20% OFF WITH N.D. or SMC I.D • MON -SAT 9:00-5:30 SUNDAY 12:00-5:00 
*HANGING PLANTS *CACTI * LARGE PLANTS *TERRARIUM PLANTS 


J/ie~~
409 DIXIEWAY NORTH 272-6363 
PLAYLANl' GOU: CENTER 
OPEN; dawn 'til 6:00 p.m. 9 ttOLE o PAR 3 GOlf.COOISc DrivinQ Range . ·, 8 H~le Miniature 
LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWOOD 

~------------------------------­
•···•·····················•·•··•···········•·•···••···············•
For grad women 
=·Anyone interested ~ 
.
.

ND to build townhouses· in ioining the ND . .. 
Monday, September a, 1975 the observer 
The University, of Notre Fides Publishers an<l Aquinas Dame will ·construct a new Book Shop, just west of the con-residence complex on cam~>Us for struction site, will become part of graduate women. The facility will tthe residence complex. This be completed by August, 1976., buidling will probably be used as a according to University sources. a commons building for Masses, 
The complex will be located on group meetings and social ac-Bulla Road east of Juniper and will tivities. Laundry facilities also accommodate 144 women. Thirty-may be included in the commons six identical townhouses with building. Fides and Aquina~ have exteriors of brick and white siding not yet made final plans for will be arranged in six buildings of relocation. varying size. Each all-electric Brother Kieran Ryan, C.S.C., apartment will have a common assistant vice president for Jiving room and small kitchen and business affairs, said the graduate dining areas on the first floor, and student housing project is still in four private bedrooms am;! a full the planning stage and no con-bath on the second level. tracts have yet been awarded. 
The building currently honsing However, two architects, National
• d 
' Duggan lnaugurate 

as SMC president 
(continued from page 1) search committee thoroughly 
Alan Simpson, president of investigated your IQ before they Vassar College, related that he had hired you, we welcome you as a been the commencement speaker courageous new member." 
1 at St. Mary's ten years ago. The Max P. Gabreski, chariman of topic of his address at that time the Parents Council, and Jeanne was "the qualities of an educated Murphy Westland, vice president man." "Today," he said, "I'm of the Alumnae Association Board, delivering him to you in person." both pledged the support of their Duggan has three beliefs, groups and their best wishes for 
1 
Simpson· explained. The first is Duggan's success in his new equality of the sexes, the second, position. 
1 unadulterated liberal education, Sister Kathleen Nelligan, and the last, a moral education superior general of the Sisters of based upon Catholic values. He the Holy Cross, said Duggan is a termed Duggan "in­creator of "now women who still discourageable" and "a Claire have old values." 
Du~gan," he concluded. The virtues of the Soth Bend­
1 S1ster Jeannne Knoerle, Mishawauka community were president of St. Mary-of--the­estolled by Jerry Hammes, Woods College, and past president president fo the South Bend­
of the Indiaa Conference of Higher Mishawauka Chamber of Com­Education, welcomedDuggan to merce. "The good life exists in the Conference, and assured him of Michiana," he said. "The people his peers'. "Becoming a college rtake pride in the community, and president today is either an act of free enterprise. Here you will find 
courage or stupidity," she said. the benefits of the fruits of labor "And since we're certain the and hospitality." Student Body President Joan McDermott said the students
Juggler to meet 
desire the pursuits of goals in a Christian atmosphere and the on Tuesday development of mutual in­terdependence. 
The Juggler will hold an organizational meeting Tuesday at 
7:30 p.m. in the publication's of­
CAPRI
fice, third floor of the La Fortune Student Center. Anyone interested in serving on 
LIQl.JOR
the editorial board at the 
production staff should attend the 
STORE
meeting, editor Gary Zebrun 
stated. 
At the corner of 
The Juggler is Notre Dame's magazine of the arts. It publishes 
~ronwood and 
poetry, fiction, photography, 
Edison (Rear of
reviews and critical essays by 
members of the University 
Co

community. 
IN CONCERT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM SAT. SEPT. 20 BPM ALL SEATS RESERVED $5 -$4 -$3 
tickets on sale now at morris auditorium box office 1 1-5 suspended chord -elkhart&goshen record joint -bell plaza niles 
location was chosen for its proximity to the library and laboratori~s. The plan was a 
compromise between more economical dormitory ac­commodations and the ideal, but financially precluded, individual apartments, Brother Kieran said. 
The complex , financed by the University at an estimated cost of $1 million, will fulfill last year's commitment to graduate women to replace Lewis Hall. The University announced last semester that Lewis Hall would be converted to an undergraduate women's dormitory and that graduate women would be housed temporarily in Badin Hall. In September 1976, Badin will revert to an undergraduate women's hall. 
Of 1988 advanced students at Notre Dame last year, 460 were women and 144 Jived on campus. 
Homes of Lafayette, Ind., and Ellerbe Architects of Bloomington, 

Debate Team: 
Minn., are involved. • . Bro. Ryan said he expects to 
There will be a meeting
have working drawings and bids for contractors out by the end of 
October. In the meantime, the Tonight at 7:30 University is extending storm 
sewers and sanitary lines and will in Room 1-C La Fortune 
grade the construction site. Design of the new facility was 
determined by the University after Come see what Debate 
a series of meetings with graduate students, whose criteria included 
is all about.
private rooms, kitchen facilities, and reasonable rental fees. The ••··············•··••••·••••··•••••••···•••••···•··•······•··•·••• 

MUSICIANS: 
(Groups and Singles) 
If you would like to be included on the 1976 Student Union list of performers, 
Please contact Dave Shaheen 8406 
SOME OF TODA'lS' MOST WANTED
VALUE HOUSEITEMS AT SHOWROOM SAVINGS 
VISIT OUR SHOWROOM
CATALOG!SHOWROOMS AND 
Distributors of Fine Jewelry and Gifts. 
COMPARE OUR PRICES 
Your Headquarters for nationally advertised brands 
• 
Calculators •Desk Lamps 

• Hot pots and plates

• 
Typewriters Other student requirements


Stereos & Television

• 
Columbia Bicycles 
all at famous low 
VALUE HOUSE 
catalog prices 

Panasonic THE POWELL RE-7680 FM/AM/FM Stereo Radio. IC. Tuning meter. 
Stereo-eye. Stereo Selector. AFC. FET tuner. Tuned RF-stage. Loudness control. Walnut wood. Twin 61!2" air-suspension speakers. Solid state engineered. 
Suggested Price $149.99 
VA~UE HOUSE SPECIAL 
$99.97 

WHILE QUANTITIES LAST 
2 CU. FOOT 
COMPACT REFRIGERATOR 
by Avanti 
Features temperature control 
Ice cube troy White baked enamel exterior Optional roll oboul stand ovoiloble 
VALUEHOUSE 
SPECIAl 
$99.99 
whlie supplies last

llbove model available In .walnut and coppertone finish...$109.97 
SHOWROOM HOURS MONDAY 9:30 -8:30 



VALUE HOUSE 
TUES thru SAT 
• SOUTH BEND· 516 N. MICHIGAN ST. 
9:30 • 5:30 • MISHAWAKA-1428 W. 6th ST. 
Monday, SepMinber a, 1975
the observer 
Campus Briefs • • • 
l<~r. Griffin opened Darby's last

• l apartments from 11:30 to 1:00
Labor commlttee a.m) . and in the Huddle and the year to provide the Notre Dme 
to ra11y Sept. 6 
The Farm Labor Aid Committee 
and other organizations in the 
Michiana area will sponsor a rally 
at noon on Saturday, September 6. 
An ecu~enical servic~, which will 
be held m St. Stephen s Church at 
1102 Thomas, will precede the 
~· The rally will feature singing
and music with guitarist Benito 
Salazar, as well as a number of 
speakers. Starting from St. 
Stephen's, the rally will proceed to 
a location to be announced at the 
service. 

The service and rally are to show 
solidarity with the United Farm 
Workers. 

SMC InPIRG 
to meet tonight 
Students who joined th' St. 
Mary's branch of InPIRG (Indiana 
Public Interests Research Group) 
last year will i:neet in Le Mans Hall 
Monday at 7 p.m. with Rick 
Warrick lnPIRG's northern 
coordinator, to ~iscuss plans and 
finances for this year, and to 
organize board elections and a 
drive for more volunteers. 

"Mainly, we want t!l check into 
consumer interests this year, such 
as grocery pricing and bank 
policies" said InPIRG member,
, M ,
Kathy Nolan. St. ary s 
cooperated with Notre Dame~s 
InPIRG last year in investigating
sundry items at local drugstores. 
Although the two chapters have 
separate Boards because of 
separate funding! St .. Mary:s pl~ns 
to continue workmg m conJunction 
with Notre Dame on most InPIRG 
projects. 

Presently, lnPIRG at St. Mary's 
is in it's planning stages and needs 
volunteers in different areas of 
public interest. It will depend on 
cooperation with Notre Dame, 
Indiana University-South Bend, 
' 

and possibly Valparaiso. "If we get enough students i';lterested and willing to put effort m, we should be able to check into a lot of con­sumer issues," said Nolan. 
SLC candidates to organize 
An organizational meeting for all SLC candidates will be held Sept. 11 at 7 p.m. to distribute petitions for candidacy, rules and in­formation. 
These petitions must be handed in with 100 by 11 p.m., Sept. 16. Campaigning starts the next day, with a first election on September23 and a second one on September 25. 
The North and South Quads and Off-Campus comprise the three voting districts. Off-campus balloting will take place at the Campus View and Notre Dame 
............

.. ········~-············· .
.
.
.

. .
. . 
~. ~ 
: t
. ..
. .. 
:1 Mile N of ND-SMC: ~ on US 31 ~ 
! MIDNIGHT SHOW: ~ FRI. & SAT. : ~BUY YOUR TICKETSE 
.•
. NOW!! 

REDUCED PRICES "ROLLERBALL" at Midnight "TOMMY"
.
. 

at 1 2:1 5 A.M. 
.

. MON.· THURS • 
•

............................... 
community with "a clean, well­library from noon till6 :00 p.m. On-lighted place to study." Darby's,campus students can vote in their named after Fr. Griffin'shalls between 1.1:30 and 1:00 a.m. 

cockerspaniel Darby O'Gill,

or from 5:00 bll 6:30 p.m. I.D. 
provides a place where male andcards will be stamped to insure female students can meet sociallyvalidity. 

after midnight.

Elections will be handled by a Tom Daley, manager of Darby's
committee comprised" of Peter Gottsacker, cnairman, Ed Byrne, 
stressed this point: "We want to 

Stan Cardeses and Tim Cauley. create an atmosphere that will allow' people to socialize after midnight, but still be able to
B00k eXChange study." 
Darby's Place will be open from 

• k h d 1 12 to 4 A.M. Sunday through
plC up sc e u e Thursday, and coffee and donuts will be available. 
Students can pick up unsold .. The Student Union Social books and money during the Commission is responsible for following hours: Darby's operation, this year, in­
stea~ of the Ombudsman.

Tuesday, Sept. 9: 7-10 p.m.Wednesday, Sept. 10: 7-10 p.m. Volunteers are needed lo work at Thursday, Sept. 11: 1-2 p.m. Darby's during the week, and 
anyone interested in helping Please enter the exchange should call Tom Daley, 8736. through the south stairwell of the 
LaFortune Student Center and Photo orders
proceed. to the second floor. Books not picked up by 2:00p.m. being taken 
on Thursday, Sept. 11 will become the property of the Student Union. St' Mary's seniors wishing to The exchange managers request have their senior picture in the that no outside books or notebooks 1975-76 blue mantle are to submit be brought into the Book Ex­the proof of their choice to room· change. 304 McCandless Hall by October 1. 
Those seniors who have not yetDarby's Place had their picture taken, or who want them re-taken are to sign up for an appointment with Mr. opens tonight Zehring, photographer, o n the 
south side of the Dinig Hall, facing Moreau Hall.

Darby's Place opens for business in the basement of La Fortune at A$10.00 sitting fee will be charged midnight tonight. to those seniors who have not yet 
CLIMB THE LE TO SUCCESS. 
had their pictures taken, and -an $8.00 re-take fee charged to those who are having them taken again. 
The dates scheduled for photographing are Sept. 9, 10, 1i, 12, and 15. September 14 and 16 have been reserved for rain dates. 

THE LAW BOARD REVIEW SEMINAR TAUGHT BY PRACTICING ATTORNEYS 

The Law Board Review Center announces a special, weekend Seminar in preparation for the October LSAT. The instructing attorney fully prepares the aspiring law student to maximize his/her score on the Test. The Seminar provides a thorough analysis of the LSAT, including extensive replication and review of all relevant sections of the Test. This intensive weekend review also includes special emphasis in those areas where scores are most likely to be improved, consideration of test­taking techniques, and materials for additional study. The complete fee is $85. 
IN NOTRE DAME at the Holiday Inn Sat. & Sun., Sept. 27th & 28th Sat.-9AM-3:30PM-Sun.-9AM-6:30PM 
Information and Reservations Call Toll-Free 800-458-2380 
LAW BOARD REVIEW CENTER 

32 Gramercy Park South 10770 Lawler Street New York, New Uork 10003 Lo& Angeles, Calif. 90034 
An Air Force way to give more value to your college life and college diploma. 
• 
Scholarships 

• 
$100 a month ta·x-free allowance 

• 
Flying instruction 

• 
An Air Force commission 

• 
A responsible job in a challeng­ing field, navigation ... missiles 


. . . 
... SC!ences ... engmeenng 
• 
Graduate degree programs 

• 
Good pay ... regular promotions . .. many tangible benefits 

• 
Travel 



CONTACT CAPT. M.L. STOCKDALE 
ASST PROF OF AEROSPACE STUDIES UNIV. of N.D. Ph 283 6634 
All photo orders are handled through the mail by Mr. Zehring onhis own order sheets. Only the number of the proof is required to make copies. Thus, turning the proof to the Blue Mantle staff will no affect a student's order. 


walls or bridges? 
fr. biII toohey 
We start again. The summer is over. Many wonder: "How did it pass so fast?" The summer of '75 -with those good or lousy jobs; Jimmy Hoffa's kidnapping; the surging Cincinnati Reds; the Joan Little trial; Nash ville and Jaws (I'll bet those who did not see Jaws constitute one of the smallest minorities on campus); the 30th anniversary of HirQshima; and the tragic conclusion of the Kent State trial. 
The first days of a new school year might 

be a good time to ask some honest, very 
basic questions. What's the purpose of it 
all? What's the point of this place? What's 
the point of coming here? The great danger, 
of course, is that education will be seen (and designed ) principally as a preparation
for making a living instead of a preparation 
for life. It can function for gain, not for 
growth.
In many universities, for instance, the 

Humanities don't humanize; they 
neutralize. Students are asked the wrong
question -"When you graduate, what are 
you going to do?" -whereas the real 
question is : "When you graduate, what are 
you going to be, what kind of person will you 
have become?" The temptation is to 
reward students for successfully acquiring 
information which will enable them to fit 
into our present system, with all its faults 
and superficiality -its consumer frenzy and 
materialistic self-serving. 
On the contrary, what is all our learning 

for, if it is not to render service to persons, 
whether that be understood in the most 
private and intimate relations, between 
friends, lovers, and family or in the ~ublic 
and institutional relations of respondmg to 
the needs for justice and peace? 
James Forest of the Fellowship of 

Reconciliation says it beautifully: "The 
university is to be a place for helpin~ young 
people mature into vulnerability. ' To 
"mature into vulnerability" means that the 
university becomes a place where truth as 
Joseph Heller enjoyed both tremendous commerical and critical success with his first novel, Catch-22. Perhaps the timing of its mid-1960's release helped make the novel an incredibly popular one, for the lunacy of Yossarian and h1s counterparts seemed the perfect parody of U.S. invovlement in In­doChina. The novel was also the inspiration for other anti-war parodies--most notably M-A-S-H. 
In the meantime, Heller taught at City College of New York. When questioned about how his second novel was coming, a common answer was "something's hap­pening." 


SomETHinG 

HAPPED~D 
Something did indeed happen. As Catch­22 was an attack on man.s mvolvement in war, Something Happened chronicles a man's dissatisfaction with the American way of life. Heller has his main character, successful middle-aged businessman Bob Slocum, describe all aspects of his life. These include sketches of his wife, two sons, daughter and office life. 
The book itself does not read well. Heller constantly strays away from the subject at hand to add more information. The result can be very frustrating reading, for more information is constatnly being added to prove a point. In the long run, however, Heller is successful for making the reader think about wanting to settle into a 9-5 existence--something much more frustrating than his complicated passages. If one wants to read a devastating attack on the American way of life, read Heller's book--itis totally engrossing and will inger on your mind for quite some time. 
Lady, by Thomas Tryon--More psychological and less gothic than the usual Tryon works. A small New England town's matriarch has her character and past life unfolded in a well-written and engrossing/ narrative. Mildly recommended. 

well as reality is sought. It is the experience of causing the eyes to see and the ears to hear -what is everywhere around us -the cries of the poor and the oppressed ... and to see and to hear in such a way that we become vulnerable to them and their needs. 
otherwise, an epigram of Bob Dylan can become frighteningly real. He said, "The only difference between schools and old agehomes is more people die in schools." The trouble with so many universities is that they indulge the nesting instinct by building 
very protected little communities inside the great walls. A truly educated person is one who has no walls between himself or herself and the suffering of the world. And that doesn't just mean the world "out there." 
inherited some very strong maxims: "Mind your own business"· "live and let live"· "whatever someo~e does, that's hi~ problem, don't meddle." A lot of us have followed these maxims and others like them so completely that we have developed a deep instinct against any form of fraternal correction. And such maxims do have their place. ~inding one's own business is frequently the right thing to do. Who wants to become a .nosy busybody? The image of the stool pigeon, the fink, the rat, hardly stands high in our American way.
And yet there is that drunk driver. There is that girl going off to the abortionist; the friend on drugs; the student cutting herself off from all others. 

"It-tokes a real brother, not a keeper, to respond to the needs we see around us for loving correction and core." 
Let's propose a few situations. You are at a party. Someone, obviously smashed, is about to drive a earful of friends home. Do we let him go without saying a word, without doing anything? There is a girl you know who lets it be known that she is having an abortion. Or it comes to your attention that a friend is on drugs. Or you become aware that a student on your floor is starting to isolate herself from all other people. 
We frequently find ourselves in situations like these, delicate and difficult ones. Do we have the obligation to speak up? To in­tervene? There is a much neglected (because very burdensome) duty Christians have. It is to become vulnerable to the needs of these persons, who are indeed oppressed. 
The tronble is in our culture we have 
Perhaps we are perplexed not so much by the plain call of duty as by the method we are to use to fulfill it. In the situations we mentioned, it seems the least we can do, and ought to do, is to approach the persons in question directly, to show them our very serious concern about the harm they are doing, or can do, to themselves and-or to others. 
I know a student who approached an acquaintance who had drifted into a situation that was beginning to harm him deeply. He said to him : "Tom, please believe me when I say that I'm doing this because I really care for you very much. I'm truly saddened by what I see happening to you. I'm not trying to chew you out or admonish you; I'm not angry or irritated or 

something's happening in paperbacks 
Watership Down, by Richard Adams (Avon, $2.25)--The international best-seller about the perilous travels of rabbits in search of a new home. It is a superbly-rendered narrative offering moments of masterful suspense and sentimental vignettes. Light when politicians used bales of words to say nothing or deceive the voters, strait-talking Harry Truman is a comforting reminder that things can be different. Plain Speaking, his oral biography, comes from,a series of interviews done with Merle Miller in 1962, in which he slaughered all sacred . cows. From characterizing Richard Nixon as "a shifty-eyed, goddam son-of-a-bitch," to revealing Gen. Eisenhower's affair with a secretary, Plain Speaking bluntly reveals 
"give 'em Hell" Harry's look at history. 
reading for those in search of great story---------------------------------­
telling. Highly recommended to readers of all ages. 
Fish Light, by Michael Waters (Ithaca House, $3.50)--An exceptional book of verse by an emerging poet of extreme talents, with poems dedicated to John Logan and Michael Ryan (both former Notre Dame associates and members of la:;t year's literary festival>. Mostly free verse for verse enthusiasts. Itcontains 30 poems in 5() pages. 
The Dogs of War, by Frederick Forsyte-­typical Forsyte, much like his former works in method and technique. This one concerns some mercenary soldiers aiding a mining company in a military coup in a small country. Full of espionage and killing. 
Eva and Adolf, by Glenn B. Infield (Ballantine, $1.95)-An interesting and in­sightful account of the affair of Adolf Hitler and "The First Lady fo the World?", Eva Braun. Although amateurishly wirtten in places, it is a well-documented account of the romance. and includes 32 pages of rare photographs 
The Woman He Loved, by Ralph G. Martin (Signet, $1.95)--Another romance probing the character and life of the female. This one concerns the Duke ,andl Duchess of Windsor and is an accurately substantiated account fo the romance and marriage. A commercial effort by the author, no doubt, but a sincerely honest and interesting one. Mildly recommended. 
The Portable Jefferson (Viking Portable Library). The book is a selection of Jef­ferson's writings including his only full­length book Notes on the State of Virginia, his revolutionary war pamphlet, 'A· Sum­marY. View of The Rights of British America, his state papers and ~everasl dozen of his letters (he left over 18,000 manuscript letters on a sweeping. array of topics>. This collection gives a fascinating view of one of the most wide"ranging minds America has produced--a statesman, diplomat, scientist, philosopher, author and Founding Father. 
Plain Speaking, by Merle Miller--In a time accusatory. (How could I? I do crazy things myself, and need others to care enough to point it out.> So I've come to try, the best I can, to say that I care for you; I want to help. Can't we talk about it?" · 
That's one of the most loving actions I've witnessed on this campus. That student naa truly matured into vulnerability: he opened 
l

himself to possible scorn, ridicule, rejection. He was willing to gamble with ~ vulnerability -to chance the pain that might I result. As a person who cared, he could not I do otherwise. 
I

Have you noticed how often we accept 
I

things unquestioningly? Take the famous 
I 

scene between God and Cain. He is asked, 
I

"Where is your brother Abel?" Cain 
I

sneeringly dismissed his relationship to. his brother: "Am I my brother's keeper?" I Without much thought, we figured perhaps I that Cain's problem was not recognizing I that, indeed, he was his brother's keeper. I I was jolted from my own uncritical ac­I ceptance of this by a remark William Sloane 
I

Coffin recently made: "Am I my brother's 
I

keeper? Hell, no. I'm my brother's 
I

brother!" 
It takes a real brother, not a keeper, to I respond toithe needs we see around us for I loving correction and care. Under the I rubric of minding oo.r own business, or even of never ratting on a friemd, we may not be guilty of killing our brother, as Cain did, but we may be held to account for allowing him to remain oppressed in his self-destructive behavior without so much as a ripple of protest from us. 
The response I've been describing is not different from the general command to love. 
But it is a most difficult and delicate ex­pression of it. And a very necessary one, if we would manifest that we have "matured 
into vulnerability." 
May this be a year we all join in the pursuit of truth as reality, become vulnerable to the cries around us, eliminate walls and ruild bridges to one another. 
a vacation in ireland by martha fanning 
Despite numerous tales from friends and relatives, I didn't know what to expect of Ireland. My feelings about this country now that I have had the opportunity to visit there can be summed up in three words: I loved it. 
Traveling with my aunt, cousin, and sister, I participated in a two week con­ducted bus tour. We traveled to the nor­thern sections of the republic, across to Dublin, then through the southern regions. 
My first impressions were of green fields, cattle, sheep, multi-colored flower gardens and donkies. These were all lthere as we traveled to Galaway. Here I was in­troducedto one of the more famous scenes in Ireland Galway Bay11t was in this city that I had one of my more memorable evenings. Relatives of a tour member excorted us to an Irish Singing pub. It wasn't a typical tourist spot so I was able to hear more traditional Irish Ballads rather than those performed for foreign visitors. 
From Galway we went to Bundorna, an Irish Seaside resort. Here one could go to a mini-amusement park, play slot machines, Bingo, or a variety of games of chance. It was a different view of Ireland, to say the least. 
Dublin was the next destination. I was amazed at the number of peoplejust milling around on the S~Pf'!t.... Nearly one third of the populations i~located in that area and it seemed they were all outside that day. In Dublin came the highlight of my trip. My relatives from County Roscommon drove to the city to see their American cousin. We all went to Howth for Afternoon tea and became better acquainted. The meeting ocurred on the day before we left the city and in itself made the trip worthwhile. 

By now a week ahd passed and the southern part of Ireland was still to be covered. We stayed in Blarney visiting Blarnel Castle which I thoroughly enjoyed. Most o the time I was in the ruin I explored the different chambers still intact. They were all very small with narrow winding stairways leading up to them. I came away from the castle without kissing the Blarney Stone and glad to live in the 20th century. 
We finished our southern swing via the Ring of Kerry and up to Limerick The Ring of Kerry dissappomted me. It was a beautiful section of the country, however I preferred the more rugged scenery of the North. 
Limerick was the final stop. The last night of oul"¢itay the group went to Knappoe Castle for a medieval banquet. The en­tertainment provided was a pageant of Irish History. Covering from the founding of the Castle to present day it was an appropriate finale to the trip. 
Some aspects of Ireland surprised me such as the Ien11th of the day, which lasted till 9:30 at night the palm trees scattered all over thbe country and the more moun­tainous regions. The trip on the whole was, a fantastic experience and I'm grateful fo~ the circumstances which allowed me to go. the members of the tour who helped mab 1 the trip so grand, and my aunt who finanr;et\' 
the vacation. Leaving Ireland I had two resolutions in mind, one to go back to Ireland within seven years and the other never to listen to "Danny Boy" again. 
6 the observer Monday, September a, 1975 ... 
Campus life examined 
(continued from page 1) Course Availability 

Regarding course availability, the second major topic, the committee noted that. many students have complained that there is little diversity both inside and outside their majors. "Students feel that there are some courses that should be offered within the ma)or but are not of­fered because of faculty limitation or inadequate student input within the department," the report stated. 
Eder pointed out that there is 
currently no regular system or 
getting student input on course 
creation. "Students can go in a 
group to the dean of a colle~ and 
submit a proposal for a new Class," 
Eder said, "but there are two 
problems with this informal 
procedure: 1) most students do not 
know about it, and 2) the 
organizational problems, such as 
finding a prof and getting official 
approval, are often insuperable." 
The committee recommended 
that the problem might be solved 
by conducting a survey every three 
years "in order to keep the 
departments updated on student 
course preferences," arguing that 
"if the departments had access to 
this information they could in­
troduce new courses on a sup­
ported basis rather than by the hit­
-or-miss method that is currently 
used." 

Particularly bad problems in 
this area were encountered by the 
business College according to the 
report. This is due t_o increas~d 
enrollment and no mcrease m 
faculty and facilities. "Un­
fortunately," the report says, 
"there appears to be a lack of 
administrative leadership and 
faculty consensus over how the problem should be handled." · 
-In regard to the whole 
registration course availability 
matter the committee concluded 
that "an equitable registration 
system, characterizedby in­
creased control and increased 
student input into the curriculum, 
would allow students a more 
popular course of elective study." 
The committee' report on 
variations from the standard 
departmental classroom courses 
was generally favorable. It 
praised the American Studies 
department's community service 
internships campus media in­
ternships and the government 
departmen't work-study seminar 
on urban projects. 

Hall courses were also noted as 
being successful on a limited trial 
basis. "The underlying philosphy 
of this project is to help effect a 
transfer of learning from the 
formal educational world to the 
informal life of the student. 
Located in the residence halls, these courses are the sam as traditional courses but charac­terized by a less formal management and atmosphere," the committee explained. 
The economics, theology and collegiate seminar departments have been active in developing these courses. Mrs. Mary McCabe, director of student development programs, noted that a non-credit program on male­female relations was run last year by Grace, Breen-Phillips and Farley with "very positive results" and that a similar program may be run this year. 
The committee felt that the departments should be encouraged to continue, revise and improve the courses, especially since many of them have been the result of "student interest." 
Tests and Grading 
"Measurement of student 
achievement is a terribly complex 
undertaking. That it is not always 
attended to in an effective manner 
is given testimony, sometimes by 
the professors charged with the 
responsbility for evaluation of 
student achievement, and often by 
the students who are evaluated," 
the report said. 
It noted that testing and grading 
weretwodistict but interconnected 
problems. Test questions should 
show whether a student has met 
the objectives of the course and 
these objectives, on which grades 
depend, should not be set by competition between students. 
The committee suggested that department chairmen and deans initiate "systematic reviews of the courses of instruction." Depart­mental seminars and mini-courses in test construction could be of­fered to the faculty. 
Future Investigations 
Eder stressed that the 
Academics report was only 
"preliminary--We did not have 
enough time to investigate several 
topics and some of the committee 
members were tied down by other 
duties." One such are of concern 
which the group had initially 
planned to look at was career and 
guidance conselling. 
However the committee 
members have plans to revive 
their investigation this year. "The 
committee is currently suspended 
but we hope to continue it this 
year," Eder commented. "There 
is still a lot of work that can be 
done and if we can get together we 
can fill the vacancies left by 
graduation." 
Another reason for keeping the committee functioning is to keep the points made in its preliminary 

report before the Board of Trustees. "We submitted the preliminary report to the Student Affairs committee of the Board during their May meeting. They con­sidered it then but gave us no firm committement, so we must keep this in front of the Boacd at their upcoming meeting, along with the rest of the COUL Report. Student government and theother cam­pusorganizations,, particularly the media, are important in this effort too," Eder concluded.  Don't forget t e meeting TONIGHT at 9:00 p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom for aII Ieaders of c,l u b s I and organizations interested in having their group participate in Activities Night  
HAWAIIAN NIGHT TUESDAY $3.45 Boar's Head brings the Islands to you. At less than Island prices! Delicious Hawaiian chicken dinner is only $3.45 per person plus tax. Includes Tropical fruit salad, wild rice, and sweet and sour sauce. Also: Boar's Head Salad Bar, hot bread, ice cream or sherbet, and coffee, tea, or milk. All for only $3.45 We're doing the whole place Hawaiian on Tuesday. Aloha. BOAR'S HEAD® RESTAURANTS 52885 U.S. 31 North in South Bend  
FREE while supplies last Notre Dame -Saint Mary's Canvas Book Backpacks when you open a First Bank checking account Exclusively at First Bank, you can get one of these handy canvas bags in either Notre Dame's or Saint Mary's school colors with the school emblem embossed on it. Constructed of strong canvas with double-stitched stress points, this bag can be carried or worn on your back while walking or biking. And its contents will be protected in any kind of weather. Just start a checking account at First Bank. Once the account is opened, your backpack will be mailed to you. As an added bonus, we'll send you our useful "New Friend at the First" student kit. This kit furnishes you with information about the Michiana area.. .including a city map, transportation schedules, motel-hotel lists and rates, and lists of local restaurants and used furniture stores. Sign up today ... supplies are limited. FirstBank. With you•••all the way.. Another service of FBT Bancorp, Inc.· Member F.D.I.C./Full-service bank © 1975, First Bank & Trust Company of South Bend Time & Temperature: Call 234-7121  

ROD STEWART & FACES 
with the J. Geils Band 
IN CONCERT SATURDAY OCTOBER 4th at 7:30pm at ACC 
TICKET PRICES $7.50 & $6.50 
Tickets Now on Sale 
at ACC & STUDENT UNION TICKET 0 FFICE 
By Student Union & 
Pacific Presentations 



NOTICES Typing. $.35 per page. Call Dan 272· 5549 Anyone wishing to join a committee to make the campus accessible physically disabled students please call Jill at 289-5412 or Mary at 283· 8019 The Ombudimen Service Is open for your questions, complaints or problems. Call 7638. Sunflower Music Shop' stringed Instruments. repa lr. Books, records, cessories. 632 Portage Ave. "But you've got to have friends" Informatlon write : Gay Students of Notre Dame, P.O. Box 206, Dame, Ind. 46556 WANTED Wanted: used plano In condition. Call Val, 6661.  

Alcohol now 

permitted 

(continued from page I) 
Roemer has sent out copies of this proposal to the rectors and RA's for discussion and feedback. 
"The proposal I'm suggesting would allow each hall's student government to ado~t its own rules for the hall pertaimng to drinking, and also act as enforcer of these rules. The students themselves would have the responsibility to supervise the operation. In cases of minor disturbences where alcohol is involved, the hall government would take action about it. But in cases where a student gets drunk out of his mind and seriously injures someone or damages property, the Office of Student Affairs will certainly get involved in !handling the situation." 
Roemer said that he'd favor rules that would allow for section parties. "I wouldn't want to tell my family members to go drink only in their rooms. Though this analogy isn't exact, I feel students should be given the chance to handle thmselves through hall government. If this proposal fails, well, I'll have to admit I was wrong. But I'm very confident it will work out. I feel this proposal is a positive step and that's what I'm interested in making." 
The proposal must go to the SLC first, and if passed there, must be signed by Fr. Hesburgh befre it becomes policy. Roemer added, "I hope to get feedback on this and see if it has support. I'll be inviting several rectors, faculty members, and student government personel to my home to discuss it. Maybe they'll say, 'You're all wrong. It won't work.' I'm hoping they won't. I have confidence in the students to have the maturity to be responsible and make it work." 
Ed Byrne, SBP, commented, "The proposal to allow student government in the halls to preside over drinking rules in the halls is designed to put the students' matters in the hands of the students. The parties have to be controlled and the proposal would give the students a chance to show they can handle things through hall government." 
Byrne added, "The main thrust of thestudentlobby now is to back the bill Rep. Bodine is behind which would lower the state drinking age. 
Obviously this would erase all problems we face now in in­terpreting the Faccenda bill. 
···········~··
There IS a •.
-.

: difference!!! : 
• 
: ~MitE FOit: e 
: MCAT ::.:,;.:: :
: 0•.,. -~CHI 
: 
• ftl loullcllnts e :. I ~AT • •. 







~· -·---....

: GRE :.

•hldr
:··;,·· .: ·~sa CourHIIhlllfl e

• 
ftiU c-lllllly ....IH e 

• 
OCAT ,.,. IICohloiiiOf : 



e II'IIIW\ ef CIHI e 
• I'DAT lflMII' ·~lor uH •
• llrftI Df "'"lr-lll"f • 
: FLEX ""'";:· : 
• ........, fOf :


: ECFMG 
nHisH ~nons • 
: SAT : 
! UT'L MED BDS : 
: Moot clo.., otert II -k• e e proor to hom e e Sprone & Foil ~~~ e 
• Somo couroot offorod on • 
• Mo1or Compu•• •. 
e TEST OATES : e MCAT 9-75 NMB'S 6·76 : OAT 10.75 ECFMG 1-76 : e LSAT 10.75 FLEX 12·75 e e GAE 10.75 OCAT 11·75 e e ATGSB 11·75 CPAT 9·75 e e SAT 11·75 VAT 12·75 e 
: INDIANAPOLIS : 
e 11820 GrMnllloro Drove e e lndt-polit, Ind. 48220 e 
: • • ~31~ ~2·1~7. • • : e CHICAGO CENTER e • 13121 l'M-!1151 •




:• .Jl!:•
• 
e IDUCATIOIUol CINTEIII e 
: ""-~-·-:
i :.~~~::.::1 
CLASSIFIED ADS 


llelcome Back! 
If you live in a residence hall, ask us 
about the STUDENT BILLING CARD. With 
this card you can make long distance calls from 
your room at direct dialed rates. It's a lot easier 
and more economical than a collect call or a 
coin phone call. Drop by the Indiana Bell Busi­
ness Office and get your STUDENT BILLING 
CARD today! 
If you live in an 
apartment and need 
telephones installed, 
call our Business 
Office. 


Indiana Bell 
' 
Whole upstairs floor, girls only. $50 per month. Call 283-7579 or 233-1329 
Furnished apartment, 503W. Jef. ferson. Duplex 3-rooms, floor gas heat, turnIshed. 289-6307, 234-05~ 
Near N.D., furnished small house and kitchenette apartment.l(couple) 272-6174 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: Dinette-large table for. mica wood grain top, two leaves, 4 chairs, beige upholstery , like new. $125 Brown Stratollnar chair $115. Two burner electric plate, new $14. Miscellaneous. 272-8304 
For Sale: Sansul Six AM-Fm stereo receiver. 35 watts RMS per channel. 
one year old, In excellent condition. Cost $390. Will sell for $230 or best offer. Call Stan 291-6026 
For Sale: couches, chaIrs. mlsc. Free ,delivery to campus. Mrs. Cooper 272-3004 For Sale: picnic tables, electric skillet, blanket, shaver, bumper lack, battery charger, trash can, burner, chairs, stools, bench , dishes, kitchen Items, humldlfer, antique Ice box, miscellaneous. 234· 7362. 
For Sale: Man's 10-speed bike. 26", good shape. Call after noon. 272-7857. 
USED BOOKS Available for these and many other classes from Pandora's Books: 
AM. St., 352, 357, 381, 482; PhiL, 101, 201, 241, 245, 255, 272, 275, 303, 306, 351, 441; Art 151; Col. Sem. 321; Psych. 180; Soc. 225, 227; Speech 135, 390; Theo., 102, 121, 123, 1~1, 141, 143, 180, 235, 236, 251, 331, 367, 411, 433. 593; Eng., 109, 113, 180, 185, 307, 322, 376, 385, 386, 390A, 395, 399, 403A, 404A, 433,445,505,528,583, 591, 674B; Gen. Program 243, 281, 345, 381, 441. 

443, 481; Mod. Lang. 180, 361, 393, 421,521,430, 441; Govt. 180, 467, 545, Hlsto. 180, 215, 305, 411, 437, 439, 453, 455, 509. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Whoever found "lack ring on LaFortune plano: PLEASE return to Sharon Garvey, 224 Walsh--no questions asked--no monetary value but belonged to my mother. 

·' 
I 
I 
to 
now 
VIntage Expert and ac­
Notre 
playable Need 2 General admission So' Cal tlx. Mary 6680 
Wanted: Anyone who can board my St. Bernard for the school year, protector for your house. Dog Is 1· year old, will pay $20 a month . Phone 272-8073 after 8 P.M. 
Need one housemate. Excellent condition, newly remodeled. $75 per month Incl. utilities. Phone 287-3463. 
Need extra cash? Full or parttlme help wanted. Call 287-6613 for Info. 
Need couch and or carpet. Call Brent or Mike, Pantlborn 8318. 
Need riders to St. Louis Sept. 12-14. Call Chris 1243 
Need 2 Purdue tlx. Call Mike 8106. 
FOR RENT 
Room for girL Close to N.D. Kitchen privileges, swimming pool. $15 per week. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. 
the observer Monday, September 1, 1975 
~=::===================================~===:==================================================================================================:=======:=:::=:=:=:::=:::::::::::::::::=========:::= The top twenty 
five suspended players and some great . freshmen The 1975 collegiate football season gets under way have shored up the Irish considerably. Defensively,this weekend and there are some new looks and some ND is simply great, with Steve Niehaus heading anew names in the picture. 
powerhouse front line. Offensively, ND is simplyFor example, there is another contender in the Big green, having only two starters returning. But tightTen, an epic rivalry in the SEC and some former end Ken MacAfee is .all-Americancaliber and newpushovers who no longer fall down so easily anymore. 
faces make the running game solid and deep. RickOn the other hand, don't look for too much of a Slager and Joe Montana are fighting for the staring contest in either the Big Eight or the Pac-8. 
quarterback spot, and will have to overcome inex­At any rate, here are the Irish Eye's top twenty for perience to get the job done. The Irish open with two
1975: 
tough games <BC and Purdue) in five days, on the 
1. 
Oklahoma: By hook or by crook, the Sooners have road, but if they get by them they face Michigan State ended up with another great team, and are ready to and USC at home. jump out of the dog house and into the national 7.0hio State:l\rchie is rapidly overtaking Woody as championship. Quarterback Steve Davis and half­the most talked-about Buckeye, although they are back Joe Washington head a talented, experienced both equally exciting on the field. But Heisman backfield and the Selmon brothers lead their big trophy winner Archie Griffin will really have to show defense. Coach Barry Switzer has some holes in the his worth this year because most of his blockers offensive line and at linebacker, but will probably graduated. He should get help from fellow back just replace last year's red shirts with red jerseys to Brian Baschnagel and QB Cornelius Greene, but they fill them. It only goes to show that if you're willing to better keep the ball a lot. The defense lost nine pay the price ... starters, and with a tough open against MSU plus 

2. 
Michigan: The wolverines have a dynamite clashes with Wisconsin, Penn State and of course defense and the best freshman crop in the land. If the Michigan, they'll have to stop teams to beat them. freshman can step right into the offense, then Bo's 8. Texas A&M: The Aggies just missed the Cotton woes may be over. He will at least find himself in a Bowl last year but have the edge for the bid this year. bowl game this year because of a new Big Ten rule. There are three other really potential candidates in But it should be the Rose Bowl. All Michigan has to the SWC, all of whom the Aggies have to play, but do is score. coach Emory Bellard returns 16 starters including 10 

3. 
USC: Southern Cal gains this ranking because of on offense. That's fortunate, because he traditionally their schedule, not the most imposing one in the has a(gooddefense, best in the conference last year. It world. Besides the traditional clashes with the Irish is headed by all-American candidate Pat Thomas at and UCLA, John McKay's Trojans should glide cornerback. The offense is strong at running and through their schedule and end up in the Rose Bowl­receiving, and the Aggies want Texas badly. again. Not to say that USC isn't capably-manned. 9. Michigan State: Unfortunately; the Spartan's They lost a lot, but have a lot left, especially quar­record at the end of the season may not show just how terback Vince Evans, running backs Ricky Bell and good they really are this year. After all, no matter Dave Farmer, flanker Shelton Diggs on offense. The how improved you are, and MSU is, you just don't defense has All-American·candidate Gary Jeter at chalk up victories against teams like Ohio State, tackle and some other fine players. And John McKay Michigan, Notre Dame and North Carolina State. has this habit of winning a lot. Denny Stolz and his players also need a victory 

4. 
Alabama: The Crimson Tide should have a fine '75 against the NCAA, which is investigating them for season. Of course, '76 may be a different story recruiting viola1tions, but if they win they could because the Tide has consistently started the new usurp the Big Ten crown. Quarterback Charlie year, for the last . eight years, with a really im­Baggett and back Levi Jackson lead an experienced pressive flop in bowl games. Coach Bear Bryant has offense, and eight defensive starters return. The won his court case and the right to take 60 players on Buckeyes return too, to open in Ea'lt Lansin~, and the road, and if it is not appealed he can take all of the that should provide a thunderous start to the Big Ten people he likes to play. They include returning back­season. field of QB Richard Todd and runners Willie Shelby -10. Texas: The longhorns have found the going and Calvin Culliver, and seven members of last pretty rough the last couple of seasons and need some year's defense. If they can beat an improved Auburn depth to change that around. So far, that depth is team on Nov. 29, they'll have another shot at Number questionable, so Darrell Royal will have to rely on his 


1. But they've got to make some kind of New Year's returners, some of whom are pretty good. For resolution. example, fullback Earl Campbell, Bill Hamilton at 
5. 
Auburn: It is head coach Shug Jordan's 25th and linebacker and quarterback Marty Akins. Some final season at Auburn, and the Tigers would love to freshmen look promising too, but Royal better not givehim a roaring sendoff. They can do it too with need help from the bench. quarterback Phil Gargis, fullback Sedrick Mcintyre After that, in order, are: and a good offensive line led by 260 lb. Chuck Flet­11. Nebraska cher. If a depleted defense can be rebuilt, the Tigers 12. Arizona could head into their annual Armaggeddon with 13. Florida Alabama undefeated, and that would make people 14. Penn State forget Grant, Lee, and that other war that once 15. North Carolina State gripped the South. 16. Wisconsin 

6. 
Notre Dame: Maybe the Irish just look good now 17. Houston because they looked so bad (or is the right word 18. Pittsburgh 'crippled') last spring. Be that as it may, new coach 19. Maryland Dan Devine is breathing a little easier. The return of 20. Arkansas 



only  ', mile  Southeast of  
campus  
(across  from  Kentucky  
Fried  Chicken  and  the  
Linebacker)  FOR  
MEN  

We're No. 1 in Notre Dame Sports. Read the 
i.out)] ltnd mribunt Everyday! Call 233-6161 NOW! DORM DOOR DELIVERY 
1 
STILL COMING! I
I 
I
I 
WITH THE STUDENT I
1 

I

IN MIND 

I I
LITERS OF BEER AND 
I 

CENTIMETERSOF PIZZA I 
...!~.!~.S~~~~.!J 




