server 
university of notre dame 
As crime rate soars 
0-C burglaries on rise 
hv .Jill Truitt s"tarr l{('porter 

Chances of burglary are three times greater for 
off-campus Notre Dame students than for South 
Bend residents, according to Father Thomas 
Tallarida, director of off-campus housing. 
Tallarida stated that the South Bend crime rate is 
high. "In September, 228 homes in South Bend were 
burglarized. Out of these burglaries, 14 were 
Student-rt>nted houses," Tallarida stated. "Six per 
l'Cnt of these robberies were made on off-campus 
student houses for a total property loss of roughly 
$7,700." 
South Bend Police Detective Chief Michael 
Borkowski said that students are easy targets for 
burglars. 
:I"A student's pattern can be pretty well deter­
mined due to classes. This pattern can be picked up 
easily and the burglar then knows when it is safe to 
go in," Borkowski explained. "We've asked the 
students to stagger the times they came and go 
whenever possible and to avoid making patterns." 
Tom Wilson, Tallarida's student assistant, also 
C'mphasized that students are "easy marks." 
"Because of the amount of traffic in student 
residences, it is hard for neighbors to check student 
houses. Many do not even know who lives there," 
Wilson said. "Also burglars are aware that 
students have marketable goods." 
Stt>r('OS Primt> Targ('t A juvenile allegedly stole two stereos and cash from 1119 Blaine Streeet between 7:30 and 11 p.m. Ot'l ober 4. Marty Hutt. a renter of the home, explained that IH guests were staying at his house the weekend of thl' burglary. ·'It seems like they did check the place out 
BROKEN WINDOWS are only a reminder ofthe hazards of off-campus living. 
because we had people coming in and out all day," 
Rutt added. "He had to know that we were all going 
to the J. Geils 11nd Rod "'tPwart Concert." 
The thief did not touch two other stereos, a 
television set and two calculators in the house, 
according to Rutt. 
Four students at 612 Cleveland Avenue lost over 
$3,000 in property October 3 in a house burglary, 
according to Tomm Goode, one renter of the house. 
Goode said that three stereos and a stereo tape 
deck were taken between 10a.m. and 11 p.m. "They 
took my ring, stereo, watch, money and check book. 
I leterally have nothing left," Goode added. 
The thief allegedly broke in through a basement 
window, according to Goode. "We now boarded up 
all our basement windows and we have locked and 
bolted all other windows. We now leave a porch 
light on and we got a watch dag," Goode stated. 
The residents at 914 Cedar Street were 
burglarized twice last year and again this Sep­
tember 20, according to Tom Whelan, a resident of 
the house. 
"Four stereo speakers, a receiver, turntable, 
color T.V. and a bicycle were taken and carried out 
through the backyard," Whelan explained. "The 
suspect was seen by a neighbor when it started to 
get dark," The suspect allegedly had been selling 
magazines in the area earlier in the week, Whelan 
added. 
Whelan stressed the importance of renter's in­
surance for off-campus students and that they 
should be aware of the Crome Prevention Program. 
Goode emphasized that the University should 
take a more active role in off-campus student 
problems. 
Off-Campus Co-op Program Plannt>d 
The Off-Campus Housing Office is sending an informative crime prevention letter to off-campus students, Tallarida said. The letter informs students of houses that hve been hit and it explains a program being set up by the 0-C Housing and Student Government Offcies, Tallarida revealed. 
He said that the 0-C Housing Office, organized last year, provided students with Project Mark, two handbooks, a University lease and the Crime Prevention Program. 
"We have all the information for off-campus students, but they just don't come up to get it," Tallarida said. "Because they haven't come to us, we are contacting them through the mail." 
Chief Borkowski emphasized that Project Mark is a good program in helping prevent burglaries and apprehending criminals. 
High Crime Districts 

A total of 65 house burglaries in September oc­curred in three South Bend census districts, ac­cording to Tallarida. 
These areas are district 10, immediately southeast of campus; district 19, between Laporte Street and Washington Avenue; and district 6, the area between Portage Avenue and Lincoln Way West to California Street. 
Student input is necessary for the success of the off-campus programs, Tallarida stated. 
An on-campus McDonalds? 
Campus food franchizes open 
type of food service students go 
h,y Mary Ht>ht>r for--namely fast foods such as 
St•nior Star~ Ht>po~ter . . hamburgers." At least two maJor umvers1tles As expected, some of the pay have installed "s~ccessful" food cafeterias that remained open are franchises on the1_r ca~puses. experiencing fewer sales, Ber-Ohio State U_ru~erst~y and nhard observed. This drop in University of Ct~cmnatl netted business is lbalancedby a staff cut­considerabl<' proftts from such back, he noted, resulting in fewer franchises as McDonalds and salaries to be paid. 
Burl.!er King. Instead of paying the University 
While other unive~sitie~, such as rent for the campus space, the 
Cornell are looktng lllto . the franchises pay the school on a 
possibilities of such franchtses, commission basis. McDonald's 
Notre Dame is opposed to such a pays the school 7 per cent of it~ 
move. sales, Pizza Hut pays 12 per cent 
Ohio State and Burger King pays t per cent, 
Food sales tripled at Ohio State he said. 
when Burger King , McDonald's "The rate of commission 
and Pizza llut moved on campus depends on the company's in-
last year, according to Director of vestment here on campus," 
Food Service for the University Bt>rnhard stated. "For example, 
Hobert Bernhard. Wl' consider the company's cost in 
The franchises replaced Student setting up the equipment, among 
Union pay cafeterias, which other factors, when we decide on 
previously lost money every year, the rate." 
Bt>rnhard said. "Installing the three fast-food 
''Since the Student Union pay services helped student activities 
cafeterias kept losing money, we come to life," he added. "In 
thought it prudent to ask outside previous years the Student Union 
management to take over was just a hangout .for ethnic 
business," he said. "At the same groups. Now, however, we have 
time, we wanted to bring in the been getting a good mix of people coming to the Student Union on a regular basis," Bernhard ob­served. 
Ohio State began to investigate franchises after seeing how sue­eessful they were at the University of Cincinnatti, he said. 
Cincinnl'ti . 

The University of Cincinnati was the first college to set up fran­chises on campus; three years ago they allowed McDonald's, Mr. Jim Steakhouse and Pasquale's Pizza to do business on caopus. 
The University of Cincinnati, 
like Ohio State, had been losing money on the pay cafeteria food service, according to Ray Smith, the assistant vic·.~-president for management and finance. 
"All three businesses have been well-accepted by both students and faculty," he said. "One reason for this may be that only 4,000 out of :35,000 students reside on campus and have mandatory semester meal passes. The other 31,000 are commuters who must bu their food while on campus." 
Located in the Student Union, the 
Businesses generate more activity 
in the hear of the University, 
(Continued on page 11) 
THE MINUTEMEN HAVE ARRIVED! While not old enough to be one of Paul Revere's colleagues, Jason Korellmadeeveryone think he was aut­hentic (Photo by Tony Chlfarl) 
Colonial Minutemens reenactment is discussed 
by Pat Cunt'o 
Starr Rt>Jlorter 
Jason Korell, editor of the Concord, N.H., Journal, ex­pounded on the rebirth of the Colonial Minutemen in bicen­tennial reenactments before a small audience at the Library Auditorium last night. 
Dressed in authentic colonial garb, the New England newspaperman offered several reasons why the colonial spirit has been re-kindled and cited the overall objectives of the movement. 
"In simple terms, we do this for fun; to re-live history and hopefully teach a lesson of unity to all Americans," said Korell. 
Korell began his misson in 1962 at a town council meeting. "I came up with an idea to outfit local citizens as minutemen and before I knew it I was elected as the major consultant for the bicentennial committee," he related. 
Earlier this year, Korell's dreams finally paid off after 15 years of planning when the citizens of Concordcelebrated the 200th anniversary of the first battle of the Revolutionary War. 
The Het>nactments The historical Old North Bridge and countryside around Concord was the scene where re-established militia troops and minutement met for their confrontaton with the British. ' Certainly the original events could never have produced as much glamour as the event'> in April 1975. Media from across the glove and dignitaries such as President Ford witnessed the revolutionary pageantry. Although several people describe revolutionary war enactments as idiotic, Korell in­sists the heightened spirits of in­dividual communities prove they are a cohesive factor in towns and cities whether their ancestors actually participated or not. "We have been reenacting historical events since Patriot's 
Day 1963 (the initial skirmish between the Colonists and the Crown l attd our work will continue indefinitely," the journalist said. 
Korell's ultimate goal is the formation of the Concord Forum for International Peace and Un­derstanding among all nations. His plan involves the annual meet­ing of th world's major leaders (not necessarily politicians) to solve world problems. He offered examples of peace in the Near East. breakthroughs in the arts or engineering, etc. as areas of concentration. 
Minut('man Drt>SS 
Korell's talk centered on the specific role of a minuteman and the dress of the period. 
The modern version of minutemen are living legends of 200 years ago says Korell and the purpose is to make the bicen­tennial come alive. 
The uniforms of 1975 minutemen consist of a three-cornered hat, knicker type pants with knee socks,fluffy sleeved shirts with vest and black-buckeled shoes. A concade on the side of the three­cornered hat indicates the man was a member of the volunteer army and ribbons across the left brim of the hat illustrated his rank. 
The price for the uniforms, which Korell provided for his troups, retailed from $85 to $200 but the persuasive writer conviced the women of Concord to buy the material and sew the uniforms at a cost of $18 each. Korell cites this as another unifying asset in the plan. 
Interestingly enough, pants in the colonial period did not have pockets so the minutemen also carried a type of purse at their side with a long leather strap over the shoulder. The Minutemen also kept their bullets and gun powder in the bags. 
Korell then described the in­tricacies of loading a musket. When finally loaded, the musket takes approximately six seconds to 
(Continued on page 9) 
._,,.

r 
' f f. ·r .1 ., t !, .\ ~ ·,, 
2 the observer Friday, October 17, 1975
I 

an campus taday 
friday, october· 17, 1975 
12:15 pm­
4 pm­
4:30­
4:30­
5:15­
7,' 11 pm­8 pm­
9-1 am­
9-1 am­10-1 am­

travelogue"UNDERC: notredame'snatural research area in wisconsin" by dr. robert gordon, rm. 278, galvin life center auditorium. seminar "CIDNP studies of photochemical electron transfer reactions of biological interest" by dr. angelo .... ;v..~ola, bell laboratories, radiation research bldg. colloquium "zeta-functions associated to automorphic forms" by prof. mark novodorsky, purdue univ., rm. 226, computing center. lecture "peru: structural change in a dependent economy" by prof. kenneth jameson, n.d., rm. 110, law bldg. mass iind dinner, bulla shed evensong "vespers" log chapel 
~ilm "bananas" engineering auditorium, $1 drama "indians" stepan center, $1.50 staff and students 
smc coffeehouse 'jeanne ripley, 9; mary fran lieb­scher & julie dues, 10; paul weddle, 11; john salveson,; 12 snack shop dance featuring "smith and co.", regina north lobby $1 nan "bill steele, contemporary singer and songwriter" Iafortune basement 
saturday, october 18, 1975 : 

2:30pm-football "notre dame at air force" on channel 16, WNDU-TV 6:30, 9:30, film "towering inferno" washington hall, $1.50 12:30­7 pm-meeting "society for creative anachronism", TALOS­
sclence fiction club, Iafortune ballroom  
8 pm­ dranlcl "indians", studtmts  stepan  center,  $1.50  staff  and·  
10-1 am-1  nan  "bill  steele,  contemporary  singer  and.  
songwriter" Iafortune basement  

sunday, october 19, 1975 

5:30 pm-seminar "business activities council senior job hunt seminar" library auditorium 7, 10 pm-film "scenes from a marriage" engineering auditorium, $1 
7:30, film "the owl and the pussycat" o'laughlin 9:30 pm-auditorium,$1. 
On November 8 

ND Junior class outlines plans 
by Mike Kenahan Staff Reporter 

Bob Tully, class president, yesterday outlined planned Junior class activities for the coming year. 
On Oct. 31, Halloween, the class will be sponsoring a hay ride and bonfire in Niles, Michigan. Hot dogs and beer will be available. 
The class formal, being held Nov. 7 at the Indiana Club in downtown South Bend, will highlight the fall's activities. The dance will last from 8 pm to 1 am featuring "Paragon." The fee is $6.00 per couple. Tully stressed that "there will be a 10 per cent discount on dinner reservations at the Down Under and the Ice House restaurants before the dance." 
The Junior Class is aiso planning a trip to Pittsburgh for the Pitt game. Buses will be leaving on Friday, Nov. 14 and returning Sunday, Mov. 16. A special reception will be held in the ballroom of the William Penn Hotel on Friday evening. Tully added that balances for those going on the trip are due on Oct. 26 ''at the latest." 
Highlighting the spring semester will be the Junior Parents Weekend. The weekend is scheduled for Feb. 27, 28, and 29. 
The clas& activities will hopefully allow juniors to "get to know each other better" according to Carol Simmons, class secretary. 
"We're trying to promote ac­tivities to get all juniors involved." 
Anyone seeking information on a junior class event should contact a class officer or a hall co-ordinator. 
Seniors plan ArDlory party 
The Senior Class will sponsor an Armory Party, Saturday night, Nov. 8. 
Tickets can be purchased inthe 
Dining  Hall,  the  LaFortune  
Student  Center  andl  at  the  St.  
Mary's  Dining  Han  by  seniors  
only.  

The theme of the party will be ­"Last Hurrah", since this is the last home football weekend for the class of '76. 
"We will be competing with a concert that night but we believe that the members of the Senior 
Radicals make prison break 
SAN FRANCISCO <APl Helping Timothy Leary break out of prison was a "wonderful experience" even though the LSD guru later turned govern­ment informer, a member of' the fugitive Weather Under­ground says in an unreleased documentary film. 
Bernardine Dohrn and four other radicals long sought by the FBI also say there may be more such prison breaks and disclose that the March 1971 bombing of the U.S. Capitol fol­lowed an abortive first effort, according to the three film 
mentary. An account of the filming and quotations from the 
soundtrack  appear  in  the  Nov.  
6 issue  of  Rolling  Stone  maga­ 
zine.  
Director  Emile  de  Antonio  

said in the interview that Miss Dohrn, Jeffrey Carl Jones, Kathie Boudin, William Charles Ayers and Cathlyn Platt Wil­kerson gathered in a Weather Underground "safe· house" for the film, scheduled for release Nov. 7. 
The radicals have eluded the FBI for years, and last spring the government subpoenaed de Antonio and fellow film makers Haskell Wexler and Mary Lam­pson. The subpoenas later were w\thdrawn, and the three have v •wed they will not cooperate wit~_~PY gov~~~.m~nt _inquiry.,.:~·,·~ 

class would like to be together and share an enjoyable evening after their last football game," Augie Grace, class predident, said. 
Senoiors members of the football team will be honored and admitted as guests. 
Only seniors and their guests will be allowed to attend, and twenty­one I.D. 's will be required at the door. _ Students will be permitted to drive to the Armory, but class officers encourage students to utilize the busses that will be running between the main circle 1 and the Armory all night. i 
The party will 
include dancing, I snacks and 
m~r Cllnlnnial 
1}anrnkr ~nusr 
are $3.00 for singles and $5 .00 for couples. 
Anyone interested in helping with the party should contact a Notre Dame or St. Mary's Senior Class Officer. 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during 
the summer session, except during exams and vacation periods The Observer •s published by the students of the Univ. of Notre o'ame and St Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor 10 dollars per semester ( 18 dollars per year) from The Ob server. Box Q, Notre Dame. In diana. 46556. Second Class postage paid. Notre Dame. IN 46556. 





:_f) 
''Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
~:::::~:::::;::::::::::::::::::>::::>::::::::::::::::::::::·-:::::::::::::::::::::·-:::::::' 
}Chlckr>n Steak Sandw1ches ::: 
(Friday Nites: Perch Dinners::: 
:;ii::::::::::::::-:::::-:-:-:::·:~·:-:::;:-:::::::;:::;:::::;:::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
Your Hoc.,!
U.S. 31 (Oixiewuy) North (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards, ND '50. 
makers who made the docu-r::::::::::::,;:;::~ii;;;;;:======~:;;;;:;;=:=~==­
rpf\IW~ I i. 
1C'dJWUJHW 

SHOW TIMES 
Friday 
7:30 ' 9:20 

OUVIA HUSSEY. KEIR DUUIA·MARGOT KIDCffi; ..:;JOHNSAXON~ .... ":"::BOOCLARK ,..~ GERI?iARBEID ....liUT' MOOO£ 
TECHNICOLQR® OliR1-...::.~1 
From Warner Bros aA Warner Commumcallons Compan~ 
i··riMM·p·ARrY·s·raifE:···i 

!OPEN: MON-SAT 9am-11pmi
•

: SUNDAY 12noon 11 pm : : COlD BEER,WINE, liQUOR, i i GORMET FOODS : i 3114 S. 11 St. NILES, MICHIGAN:• :. "BIGGEST LITTLE i 
~: •••_J..I.9.l!.9!!.§1.9.Vh.I!i.~!~.I1JSiAt\: •••J *******************************
* Notre Dame -Satin Mcfry's Theatre * : Tryouts for :* Anna Cora Mowatt's FASHION * # Oct. 20,21 at 7:30 in Moreau Little Theatre (St. ~
* Marys). (Call backs Oct. 22) Open to all ND-* * SMC students. ** Copies of play available in speech and drama * * offices in Moreau and Washington halls * 
#*****************************~

UNDAYMA 


(Main Church) 
5:15p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:30 a.m. Sun. Fr. Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun Fr. Oliver F. Williams, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. S_un. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C 
Evensong will be at 4:30p.m. in the Lady Chapel. Rev. James T. Burtchaell will be the homilist. 
~ND 
SMC 
All Seats $2 ( STD-FAC $1.50) Season Ticket Still Available Four Plays $7.50 ($5.50 Std-Fac) 



WE'VE CHANGED BUT WE'RE STILL THE SAME! 
WE REORGANIZED TO MAKE THINGS MORE ACCESSIBLE, BUT OUR PRICES ARE AS LOW AS EVER! 
AND FOR ALL THOSE SPECIAL ORDERS, 
WE'VE IMPROVED OUR SERVICE 
TO GET YOUR RECORDS TO YOU QUICKER THAN EVER,AGAIN 
AT OUR ALWAYS LOW PRICES! 
REGULAR PRICE:\UR PRICE LP's $6.98 $4.99 8 TRACKS $7.95 · $6.29 
FROM OUR NEW RELEASE RACK; 
STILL CRAZY AFTER THE WHO BY NUMBERS ALL THESE YEARS THE WHO PAUL SIMON BREAKAWAY OH WHAT A MIGHTY TIME 
NEW RIDERS OF THE ART GARFUNKEL PURPLE SAGE OPEN MON -SAT 1Oam -9pm SUN12-6 

RECORDS 

919 COLLEGE SQUARE 



ergy crisis slated to be onferenc·e topic on Tuesday 
by Phil ('ackley Starr Reporter 

The Student Union Academic Commission will sponsor the Conference "Positive, Practical Approaches to the Energy Crisis" featuring speakers on solar and wind energy, and energy crisis economics. 
The purpose of the conference, according to Joe Bury, associate commissioner of the Academic Com rn iss ion, is "To make the students acknowledge the fact that there is an energy crisis, and to offer several viable alternatives to the forms of energy presently relied on." 
Bury stressed that the con­ference would be more than just a collection of speakers. He said that student participaton in the program would be of utmost im­portance. This will be achieved th­rough question and open discussion periods at the end of each program. 
The program of speakers in­
eludes, for th first session on T­
uesday, October 21 at 8:00p.m. in 
the Library Auditorium, Cal 
Hollis, president of Economic 
f<:cology, Inc. He will open with a 
general introduction and talk on 
·'f<:conom ic Ecology.'' 
Hollis will be followed by J. 
Kt>vin O'Connor, manager of the 
Solar I Institute of Energy Con­
version, at the University of 
Dt>laware. O'Connor will speak 
Law school acceptance: work begins junior year 
by Shawn Scannrll 
Staff Hrporter 

Attending law school after an undergraduate career involves work beginning in the junior year. Assistant Dean and Pre-law Ad­visor Hobert Waddick explained the progressive steps that lead to the admission to a law school. 
A student with law school in mind is invited to a meeting in the spring of his junior year. At this nweting, details concerning' the important upcoming steps in the process are brought out. Waddick said. "During the summer bet­ween junior and senior year, the interested student should invest­igate law schools, even visiting some if possible. He should send for catalogues and bulletins, work on his resume and statement of purpose for law school. In general, he should get a good overview of the schools he is interested in." 
The next important step comes in the fall of senior year when those interested students take the Law School Test (LSATl. Waddick advised that the student take the October administration of the test. This is early enough for all law schools, and it provides a safety valve in case there is a need to take the test again in December. Waddick explained, 
After taking the test, the student should begin to narrow down the number of schools he's interested in. Waddick suggests that the st­udent choose one he is very certain 
I INSTANT cREDIT
I I DlCKrS t.
. 
STAN·D.IARD)

I JI /.:."' er 
~ SERVICE 


1 q>~ A':.~;~~~
E CORRY Oil Motor

I 7 ~· Club
I /1g WRECKER &
; ROAD SERVICE

l 
~~1~ER;~:V~~~p ~ I wHEEL ~ DIAL _ALIGNMENT 234_0707 
I 
DICk Kruk. OwnerI 
1102 So. Bend Ave. 

I 
South Bend. Ind 46617 
PLICABLE TO SPECIALS) E. Grand, Chicago 60611, 
~~~~~~-~~t~........~j!!l,!!l~~·~· .··-~lli~~~!:!:..---.......:.---' 
COUPON I 
I
I




FREE 
I 

"0I L CHANGE" II 
with rap sessions, two feature WITH TUNE-UP I films and other activities de-I signed to explore the question
of where we have been and (BRING COUPON IN) where we are going. Future shock is today. Nov. 1&2, allI day, Conrad Hilton, Chicago.
MON.-SAT. 7am-llpm SUN. 9am-9pm I ~~UDENT FEE: $35 with (DISCOUNTS NOT AP-I this coupon-Oasis Center, 12
I 

and show a slide presentation on solar energy. Solar I is a solar energy house which is the center of a research and development program focusing on solar thermal and electrical conversion and st­orage. 
The third speaker for the first evening will be Dr. Tyrone Cash­man, of the New Alchemy Institut­e, in Woods Hole, Mass. Cash­man's topic will be wind energy. 
His talk will include a slide presentation and focus on wind­power in general with specific relevance to small-scale self­sufficient food and energy syst­ems. The New Alchemy Institute is devoted to research and education which seeks en­vironmental solutons for in­
~ividuals or small groups. The conference's second session will be Wednesday, October 22, at 
8:00 p.m. in Washington Hall. Featured will be Dr. Herrell Degraff. former Babcock Professor of Food Economics at Cornell University, speaking on ''Human Energy." Dr. James Abert. director of the National l .·nter for Resource Recovery, Inc., will speak on "Reclaimed Hesources. '' 
Degraff will concentrate on how the energy crisi has affected food distribution in both Third World nations and in America. 
Abert's talk will deal in part with the ue of nuclear power as an alternative source of energy. 
t apply to and register with the 
Law School  Data  Assembly  Ser­ 
vice (LSDASl.  
This  service  compiles  in­ 

formation about the student and sends it to one school upon request when the student registers. Ad­ditional reports to other schools cost more that the original $8 registration fee. Therefore the first LSDAS report should be sent to a favored school in order to minimize costs. 
In finalizing the choice of ap­plications themselves, Waddick suggests a "layered" group of five. 
"The five should be spread out so that the student is shooting for one biggie, where he would like to go but where the odds are against his admission, for once where his chances are about 50-50, for two realistic choices where his chances are good of being accepted, and for one where his admission is almost certain." Waddick said. 
Once in law school, the first year exposure will lead a student to specialize in a particular type of law. Often, part of the criteria of choosing a law school is its par­ticular strong program in a certain area. Usually, the area of un­dergraduate study will influence the area of expertice explored in 
law school. 

The LSAT score is good for five years so that students who want to take time off before going into law school will still have a valid score to use within five years. Waddick I Continued on page IO) 
The closing sesson will be Thursday, October 23, at 8:00p.m. in the Library Auditorium. Charles Hull Wolfe, president of the American Economic Foun­dation will speak on a "Free en­terprise Appraoch to Problem Solving." 
In addition, David Morris, co-
director of the Institte of Local
Self-Reliance, will speak on a "Systematic Approach to Public Policy." 
The American Economic Foundation calls itself the ''Headquarters for Simplified Economics" and has been described as an "interest group" for free enterprise. 
The Institute of Local Self­Reliance is a research group which investigates the technical feasibility of ecological, product­ive urbasn communities. 
Each night, after the speakers gfive their presentations, there will be an informal question-and­answer, and discussion peri do. Student invovlement in the con­ference will be vital here. 
Listed as "co-discussion" for Tuesday night is James P. Kohn, prof. of Chemical Engineering. On Wdnesday nght, "co-discussants" will be AI Sondjei, of the World H­unger Coalition, and Dr. Daniel H. Winnicur, assistant prof. of Chemistry. At the closing session on Thursday niht, Dr. Kenneth P. Jameson, assistant prof. of 
Economics, will  act  as  the "co­ 
discussant."  
The  conference  is  

everyone and is free. 
SPECIAL!! 
FRI. AND SAT. 


MIDNIGHT SHOW 
"JANIS" 
JAN IS JOPLIN'S LIFE STORY! 
WOODSTOCK RELIVED!! 
FUTllHE & OllTER 
• Carl Sagan-"Exploration of Space" 
• Stanley  Krippner-"Do  
Changes  in  Consciousness  
Lead  to  Changes  in  Soci­ 
ety?"  
• Hobert  Theobald-"New  

Dialog for a New Future"
•
.J. i\llt'n llvnl'k-"The UFO Experience"

•
Richard Farson-"The 

Future of the Ame.rican Family"

•
Stephanit' Mills, Moderator <concerned with overpopu­




-Tiawti~~dlay 
panel discussion, 

frida.Y.!.._Qctober 11, 1975 the observer FOR YOUR BACK PACKING NEEDS 

.L 
233-8383 
~~L.. SIERRA SPORTS 
2216 MIAMI SOUTH BEND, IN. 

~=======================~ 
r 
FAST 



TV SERVICE 
AND SALES 
WESTERN ELECTRONICS 1530 WESTERN AVE. Phone 282 -1955 

SHOP TOWN & COUNTRY 
ARD BOOKS 
MAGAZINES ART SUPPLIES MACRAME BEADS 
JUTE-WAXED LINE NOVELTIES 
2340 miracle lane mishawaka, indiana 46544 
219 I 256-0111 

SPECIAL 10% DISCOUNT ON AL MERCHANDISE TO NOTRE DAM & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 
--COUPON-­

"THE LIVING BIBLE" 
REG. $10.95 $5.00 OFF WITH THIS COUPON 
A BEAUTIFUL BOOK BOUND IN GREEN PATTED SIMULATED LEATHER COLLEGE SQUARE • MISHAWAKA Across from Town & Country Shopping Center 
PHONE 259-5288 



Fun and good times abound at contests,bazaars and beer garden 
by Mary Rukavina Staff Reporter 
You couldn't have asked for a more perfect fall day to compliment St. Mary's s­econd annual Oktoberfest. Sunny skies, crisp 50 degree temperatures, and the changing colors of the St. Mary's landscape served as the backdrop for yesterday's carnival. 
The outside activities consisted of booths and games sponsored by the various classes and clubs, with prizes being awarded to wi­nners. 
"This is the second year, and we definitely think it's getting better," stated St. Mary's social social commissioner Molly McKenna. 
According to McKenna the aim of the ac­tivity is getting everyone at St. Mary's in­volved in having a good time. 
She added, "It's sort of like an An Tostal in the fall. not as large of course, but eventually we'd like it to be. With the enlargement however, the expense of running it would rise." 
Despite the fine weather and the optimism on the part of the sponsors, crowds ap­peared thin. Sophmore Ellen McSweeny asked, "Why was it scheduled right during the middle of mid-terms, how could they expect a large turnout with everyone con­cerned with tests?" 
McKenna was pleased with the turnout 
however. She states, "The carnival wa.s just 
one of the scheduled festival events with 
plet~ty of others to choose from" 
Photos b.y Tony Chilari Layout by Dan Sanchez 
r 
t 
r 
t. 
According to McKenna the events were scheduled so that there would be at least one a student could attend. She added,"The carruval crowds were good, everyone that came had a good time. We couldn't ahve the erowds too large because of scheduling contests and awarding prizes." 
McKenna added, "The way it was set up students could come and go in between classes." 
Rosanne Pecora, St. Mary's sophmore did just that. Sh said, "It was different, a change of pace. Instead of just going from one clas to another. I'd stop and participate in a few games." 
She sighted the ice cream eatingandapple­bobbing contests as the most enjoyable. However, the overall favorite was the pumpkin carving contest. For one thin quarter aspiring artists carved away. Kellee Nash and Mary Beth Leslie carved the winning face. 
A smile in the shape of the letters S.M. C. and eyes fiqgured like the numbers 75 won it for the two St. Mary's sophmores. 
At night fall, the two-day affair's finale 
was moved inside in a make-shift German beer garden in Regina basement. Crowds were considerably larger at the night's ­.activity. attracted by a live band and flowing beer served in an authentic beer 
garden atmosphere. ' Party-goers entering the hall were 
greeted by the German words, "Eins Zwei 
Gsura" translated, beer here, three words 
understood in any language. 
_j 
-
-


·~ . 

'15 



Friday, Octob~r 17, 1975 the observer 
Letters to a Lonely 
giving hostages to fortune 
tthey shoot hotses, don't they?' highlights tv week 
This morning, very early, my dog, Darby O'Gill, heard the rustle of the leaves falling from the trees, and the sound made him anxious to go outside and play. From six o'clock to eight o'clock, he waited by my bed; even in sleep, I could feel those sad. brown eyes watching me, wondering when I would get up and do the decent t­hing for him. J:<'inally, when he could stand the waiting no longer, he tapped me on the hPad with his paw. When I paid no at­lt•ntion. he jumped on the bed, walked anoss my stomach once or twice, and finally settled down on my chest like a crouching stone lion from the New York library. and breathed cocker spaniel odors in my face. Finally, when the doggy hrt>ath didn't do it, hl' began scratching his flpas. Hight there. poised on my stomach, lw scratchl•d and scratched. Whether the vPrmin he was scratching was imaginary or not. I don't know. because that dog is l'apabl<· of pret<•nding. But the thought of fl<•as did it. as he knew it would. · I can stand being suffocatPd by my dog; I can put up with his dancing on my sleeping navPI: hut I won't share my bed with his flpas. With a roar and a shout. I lashed at him with obscenitil's, and shoved him on Ihl' floor. liP waited there to see if I would try togo back toslet'pagain. If I had tried, Wl' would have played our charades again. with him head-thumping and bed walking anf nea-baiting. as he has done every 1norning since th fall began. It is always a qtwstion of which of us will wear the other down first: whether he will forget the (paves and go back to sleep, or whether I will get up and walk him so that he can ignot·p me for the sake of the trees. 
OnP thing I refuse to do this year is to let him go out by himself. Last spring, Darby discovered there was a St. Mary's College anoss the road. He finds that campus mon• inll'resting than the Huddle, more attractivP than the dining halls, more alluring than the ducks on St. Mary's lake. TinH' and again lately, when he's been out hy himsl'lf. he's had to be carried back bodily from that school, squirming and harking protests all the way home. I'm ~lad to see him enjoy the St. Mary's fl'llowship. lt·ongratulate him on his good las!('. I l'Vl'n Pnvy him a bit for finding new fri<•nds. I have considered trying to find a col'd lo rent out for Darby on the wPekends: some young lovely who will llarby-sit for an afternoon or evening until Ihal pooch remembers where his food dish and water bowl are, and decides to come back to lht• reservation. But one thought that turns nw prematurely gray is the possibility of his crossing the Dixie high­way by himself. Those trucks out there an• not apt to be kind to a dog, especially if lw d<•cides. as he has sometimes done, to 

tv week preview 
i"onda is even more devastating in this~ film tshe was an Oscar nominee) and is surrounded by Hollywood notables such as Susannah York. Red Buttons and Bruce DNn. All in all this movie is highly n•cornmPnded viewing, and if you missed 
~ 
reverend robert griffin 
make love to the turning wheels. 
Dog owners, you see, like other parents, have given hostages to fortune. I guess if you're going to give hostages, dogs are the most satisfactory hostages for a bachelor to give. Gerbils, turtles, and rabbits are hardly creatures to become emotional about, and cats were mostly created to be playthings for the canines of the world. Children, of course, are worthy infinitely more than all the gerbils, turtles, rabbits, 
cats and dogs lumped together, but I've never been trusted with children to take home and keep. A cocker spaniel is about as much of a hostage to fortune as I can decenly arrange for. I think I would have enjoyed having a child to worry about, 
Pven though I couldn't chain him up to a fl'nce when he got troublesome. 
cccccocccccccccacacaacaaaoacoaacacacacaoccaacccaooocaacoaaaaacaaaaacaaacaoaaaaaaaaacaooaocaaoc 
~ ~conuerts came into the church in large numbers; I know how special the church seemed to those outside" 
I have a friend whom I love like a brother; he has given eight hostages to fortune. He is so close to me that we share the same name; I adore his wife as the perfect type of Irish girl who makes all those ballads about l\1acushla and Mavourneen and the Rose of Tralee seem true. Bob and Ann and their eight children are the family that furnish lhe only other home that Darby and I have now outside of Notre Dame. I love them, and my dog loves their dog Alfie more tenderly than he has ever cared for any other mutt but the mother he hasn't seen since he was littered 
Bob is a graduate of Manhattan College; he never attended Notre Dame, but so far, he has sent two sons here, and another son to Hutgers, and another boy to Dartmouth. There is an only girl, Ann Marie, who may sonwday come here, if Notre Dame is lucky. and if the North Quad cleans up its language. When I think of giving hostages lo fortune, I think of Bob and Ann, not­simply becuase they are my friends, but because their life together represents the kind of family life I would have liked to have had. if lhadnot chosen to be ordained. They arP the kind of couple who are heroic without even knowing it; they are generous because they do not know any other decent way to live. They are loving, caring people. full of humor and laughter, hiding thPir tears because they are con­siderate ot the world. 
I suppose most people who are young 
have heard something of the Catholic 
church or twenty-five years ago through t­
he word and example of their parents. The 
priests WPre stricter then, the pope was 
it back in 1969, there is no excuse for Sunday evening. 
To start an hour before Horses on channel 22 will be A Home of Our Own, the Family Theatre presentation of an American priest who gives santuary and counselling to the homeless children of our southern neighbor, Mexico. The film stars Jason Miller who came to Notre Dame for the Sophomore Litereary Festival as a 
pulitzer-prize winning dramatist <author of 'That Champwnship Season") . Miller <also the young priest from "The Exor­cist") redeems a cliche plot and script witha sensative performance. Some · Notre Dame people in CILA worked with the people in th movie <the villagers-­backstage) prior to their recognition by Hollywood, and are still serving them today. Their work was strictly volunteer. 
Should be an interesting and sypamthic viewing experience. 
A week trom tonight Sounder will be on ABC but between then and now the other movies awill be: Tht> Deadly Tower. drama based on the killing of 13 people by a ll. of Texas student< to be played by Kurt Hussell of Walt Disney fame l; Babe. the more honored, and the Church seemed a 
more prestigious, more mystical in­stitution. Perhaps our present decades are a new age for the Paraclete; but in those days, there was a special strength and decency to being a catholic and there was a repsect for the myths and. traditions which made the Church seem unique among the structures of mankind. Con­verts came into the Church in large numbers; I know how special the Church seemed to those outside, because I was one of those converts myself. Today, the Church may be more human; but as an institution, it certainly seems less charismatic. 
J:<'or me, Bob and Ann represent one of the best traditions of being faithful Christ­a ins in a Church which, beginning with a 
story of America's greatest female athlete, Babe Didrikson Zaharias ; and Tht• liFO Occurance.. 
Specials this week include the first part of Tht> Sorrow and the Pity (Ch. 11), a 1971 documentary of tremendous stature dealing with the occupation of France by the Nazis during WWII (9 p.m. Saturday). t The second part will be shown next week) Also, "First Ladies' Diaries: Martha Washington" can be seen Thur­sday at 12:30 p.m. on ch. 16, the drama concerning America's very first, first 'lady. 
Oliver Goldsmith's She Stoops to Conquer will be on PBS Thursday at 9:00. It stars Juliet Mills, Tom Courtney, and Ralph Richardson. 
The NFL-TV line-up for Sunday is: Dolphins vs. Jets at noon on 16; Bears vs. Steelers also at noon, but on 22; Lions vs. Vikings at 3:00 on 22; and the Raiders against . Bengals at 3:00 on 16. Monday Night Football will feature theGiants vs. Broncos. The Pan-American games will be tt'lecast Satureay afternoon at 3:00 on 22. 
strict observance, has humanized its aust­l'rities and legalisms. I don't think it was pasy for them to accept all of those host­ages to fortune, but they greeted each child at its birth with love and delight. For · years. I would go to visit them on vacat­ion: and they would humorously ask: "!:<~ather Bob, when is the Church going to allow birth control?" 
''Just as soon as the Pope gets married," I would answer. "The next year, there would be a new. little urchin in the crib, and I understood their decision to have children was a decision of faith. Today, I do not hear them saying, "Look at what those priests are allowing now." Somet­imes I say thatwheni think of all the steaks I didn't eat on Fidays; but Bob and Ann never say it. I think they feels blessed by a traditon of marriage that commanded t­hem to increase and multiply until the children were like olive branches around their table. 
I. who complain over parental trials of kPPping one, little rlog in existence, do not think it can be easy to raise eight children. I go to their home on a holiday, and I am overwhelmed at the activity. One child is practising the drums; another switches between the paino and the ballet. A third is into cermaics; a fourth is going Ivy Lt•ague. A fifth is reading Kerouac and acting the beatnik; a sixth is Mordred in the senior class play. The other two are 
probably quarrelling about who will walk the dogs. All of these things are going on simultaneously, and Bob and Ann are 
supporting them with money and en­couragement. In the meantime, they are worrying about who needs to go to the dentist, and whether the kids off at College are attending Mass. They try so hard to. accept where their children are at, and t­
hey are heart-breakingly sensitive to all the problems the kids are trying to make up their own minds on, from the trivial to the terrifying: hair, dating, sex, God, church. drugs, drink , careers, acne, marriage Each ch:Idisaspecial, separate case for conceri1, and a special comfort also. Bob and Ann are wise enough to listen to their children, and sometimes to learn from them. The children know their parents' anger will never get in the way of love. 
Bob is a successful business man; he is an l'xecutivl' in his company, and makes 

thomas o'neil 

Below are some television trivia questions to amuse you. I.) What is Sgt. Vincent Carter's name in real life? 2.) What was Beaver Cleaver's father's name? In real life? On the Show? :tlWhere was the Munster's telephone located? 4.) What combo starred in the Mavt>rick 5.) Who was the original host of the Tonight show? 6.) What "Channel" did Napoleon Solo use to contact Mr. Waverly? ""Open chan­nel. .. ?" 7.) Who were the first comedians to appear on the Ed Sullivan show? 
8. lWhat was the family name of those on Falht>r Know~ Ht>st? 9.) Where did they live? 10.) Who was the original owner of shilo on the Virginian? 
qqo:) T <l<l1 .<0I !S!OU!I!I '(6 :suosJapuv '(9 :s!M<l1 AJJa(' pue U!lJRW ll.ll<lQ '(l. ~9{<lUUll4:) '(9 ~U<lll\f <M<llS '(£ :;uoow J<Jl'JO'U pue J<lUJt?!) SdWI?(' '(t :umo;, l4~!Jdn ue u1 ·<c :JaAear:::> pJeM 'luownaaa .lJBnH '(i: :uonns )fUeJ.!J. l'l good money: yet l don't thin~ here is ever l'tJOugh money to cover all the needs of that brood. Bob and Ann never talk about the ways they sacrifice for their children, but you know the sacrifices have to be there; sacrifice has to be part of the .practical Christainity of any home where there are eight chldren. There is the sacrifice of leisure as well as of personal comforts; there is the self-discipline that makes a parent endure weariness and sleeplessness, when the need of a child demands it. Then there is the every day dullness of events that repeat themselves over and over, year after year, like the endless graduations and recitals and sch­ool plays. Bob and Ann do all of these sacrificial things cheerfully and char­mingly, and their own best strength is their love and respect for the other. 
To see Bob and Ann, their eight children, and their dog, Alfie, at the dinner table is to understand what it means to give hostages to fortune, and you wonder how parents can allow children out of their sight lest any of them wander off in a direction as dangerous as the road to St. Mary's over the Dixie Highway. The answer is, of course. that they trust one another. The sight ofthis family, gathered on lhP great holidays, .is more refreshing than a retreat. On the great holidays, Bob and Ann make Darby's problems and my own a part of their family life. They take us in. feed us, and send us off with money in our pockets. Theirs is a home that extt'nds to the world. That home teaches nH' what it means to be sensitively and Christianly human. 
.. Tht•y Shoot Horses Don't They? will be shown Sunday Night at 8:00 on channel 28 one of the most powerful films in recent years, featuring Jane Fonda and Michael Sanazin. The plot of the movie concerns a dance hall marathon held during the height of the Depression era, and the dream-drunk, down-beats who participate in the grotesque nightmare of the dance with the hope of either winning the prize of $1 ,500 or of being discovered by llollywood. It's a movie guaranteed to horrify and haunt you. The participants scramble ingreedy desperation across the dance floor for nickels and dimes while a pregnant woman is pushed by her husband to endure the gathering fatigue and the whirlwind of dizziness and nausea etc, etc, etc. Gig Young is the emcee for all of this, and although he is, simply, a niniature Joel (;rey from ('ahart>t, he deserved the Best Supporting Acting Oscar he won for this part. 
Friday, October 17, 1975 



Ways and Means 
Sr. John Miriam Jones 
that many of us take. An educational
"Affirmative action" is a twentieth 

institution does not fit into a c-ash~ designed
century phrase. Over the last decade it 
for labor or business or industry It is not
has almost grown old by its frequency on 
wise then to judge the affirmative efforts
the printed page andl in conversations, 
at a given campus in m~asures or~gi~ally
both heated and friendly. Perhaps it has 
designed for nonprofessiOnals. Thts 1s no
grown old too soon. The concept which the 
argument against wearing the shoes of
phrase expresses is struggling in 
affirmative action, but it does argue that
adoiescence. 
we'd run better and faster in shoes that fit.
Why hasn't the concept of affirmative 

In view of getting that proper fit, in­
action become shopworn along with the 
creasing numbers of educators are asking
rhetoric? One obvious answer is that the 
that the Department of Labor make use of
concept'. is less used than the rhetoric. 
educators themselves in establishing
Our works do tend to get distorted in the 
procedures that govern univers~ties'
process of exchange. Such distortions can 
responsibilities for affirmative actiOn.
ultimately alter the original concept. So, 
Notice, these objections concer•
perhaps the concepts off affirmative ac­
procedures only. 
tion less worn becaus•e they are not fully 
Among us there is a realization of the
understood by all who discuss them. 
rightness of faculty diversification.
There is another human penchant to 

Teachers ought to reflect the universe to
confuse principle and procedure. This has 

those whom they educate. By their so
bearing on the fact that affirmative action 

...................................... 







POINT 
•••••• ~ 
co 
• 

Commentary 
Affirmative Action: 
Fr. Burtchaell in his statement at the the Constitution and public policy of the Labor Department hearings on af­l 1nited States for Federal Government to firmative action which sparked the grant financial assistance to institutions current controversy at Notre Dame was of higher education that practice racial highly critical of the way federal contracts discrmination. are used to enforce affirmative action. .. \\'e recommend that Federal agenciesdoing the faculty will assume a wholeness
is simultaneously blessed with many Under a series of executive orders ,only ad in aceordance with the fundamental
and a richness from which students can
advocates and saddled with too many corporations and universities im­Constitutional principle of equal proteuion
only benefit. I've yet to meet a real
antagonists. Criticism of the procedures plementing such programs are eligible for and I.'IJUal treatment, and that these
educator who isn't dedicated to that
of affirmative action is often mistaken for federal contracts and such contracts can agt•ncies be authorized and directed to
premise.
criticism of the principle of affirmative be revoked if a contractor is found to be withhold funds in any form to institutions action. acting in bad faith. of higher learning, both publicly-supported For university people involved in the The disagreement among us concerns Burtchaell. speaking for the University and pl'ivately-supported, which refuse, on 
actions called "affirmative", criticism of the ways and the timing best employed in and Fr. racial gmunds, to admit students other­procedure is inevitable. At least two coming closer to the ideal. Ironically, it is Hesburgh, criticized this on two grounds, wist• tJUalified for admission." reasons exist for that claim. One has to do such disagreements that both keep af­claiming government officials can cancel At that time the Commission was con­with the indirect fashion in which · firmative action in its adolescence and contracts arbitrarily without judicial cerned with blatant refusal to admit educational institutions came to be causes it to move closer to mature reality. process and that the contract power is minorities to colleges. But in the 1971 he covered under antidiscriminatory laws; Discussions growing out of these "being used, not simply to assure proper signed. a CCR report on "Federal Civil not by design but by exception and disagreements ought to keep us honest and delivery of service for federal funds, but Rights Enforcement Effort" which sup­adaptation. The other is simply a function stimulate our efforts to be wise. That also to enforce other social objectives." ported using the contract power to enforce of the demands involved when an outside wisdom calls upon us not to confound the But paradoxically one of the first people affirmative action. In fact the report was agency sets out to monitor an institution. phrase and concept, the procedures and to suggest using federal contracts to en­highly critical of the government officials 
Eleven years worth of getting the foot to the principle. It surely calls upon us to find force social objectives regarding in the Office of Federal Contract Com­
fit the shoe may well support a position a way to do that in which we believe. race was Fr. Hesburgh himself. As early pliance for not canceling contracts often as 1959 in a "Proposal to Require Equal ~>nough. Opportunity As A Condition of Federal Grants to 
The Commission's report recommended 

Higher Education" Hesburgh, witi' two that the OFCC push affirmative action
More Not Less 
other members of the U.S. Commission of 
more strongly and cancel the contracts of Civil Rights suggested: non-compliers with greater ex~cutive

Michael Wise 

"We believe that it is inconsistent with speed , ro osing:The current discussion of Federal af­service on the Commission as a member 
firmative action requirements in higher and then as Chairman, he called upon the education is too narrow in its focus. The Department of Labor and Department ot necessity for more stringent federal in­Health, Education, and Welfare to tervention in employment in our strenuously enforce compliance with the universities rather than weakened efforts affirmative action obligation of univer­

Burtchaell Replies
becomes clear in historic perspective. The sities and other employers contracting or enormity of the task of ridding our receiving grants from the Federal society of the legacy of slavery and racial government. Now, sadly, the Provost of 
discrimination becomes apparent from the University, representing the university 
' 

Bear Editor: The facts are plain that our graduate drastic but temporary remedial efforts agencies in opposition to the enforcement such a perspective. The necessity of and its President, testifies before Federal 
schools are not providing "enough such as those imposed by affirmative 
The subject of affirmative action for qualified women and minorities to go action requirements are apparent and I cannot ne1p out think that, if the 
of federal affirmative action obligation. 
around." outweigh other competing interests for the University committed itself to recruit, 
equal employment opportunity has 
received much attention in your pagesshort term that such remedies would be retain and develop qualified women and 
lately, and despite the fact that some of Your editorial goes on to state: "Butrequired if effectively employed. minority faculty and staff members with the statements published appear to be now thing is not debatable --that NotreFather Hesburgh has often asserted this the same zeal with which it now opposes intermperate or erroneius, the debate is Dame suffers from a lack of commitment very principle in the past. He has stated: the asserted bureaucratic inconveniences timely and of much importance to the to Affirmative Action". Once again, with of affirmative action obligations , it could University community. 
respect I must disagree, as does the Office "Then• may be great dangers in the easily attract faculty representative of of Civil Rights that approved our program.
May I comment upon one portion of your a bust' of affirmative action principles, America's diverse population. In so doing, Notre Dame's departments are makingsuch as those of goals and timetables, but the University would be better able to lead editorial which dealt with my strenuous efforts to augment the presence there is a much greater danger if we serve its students. 
testimony before the Department of and status of women and minorities on theshould fail in our efforts to eliminate Labor: "Burtchaell 's argument that thereI cannot believe that a University of faculty, at a time when we can expect no are simply not enough qualified womenquickly the inequalities in our society. 
Notre Dame's purported stature cannot faculty expansion, a diminished faculty.Just as the responsible physician will not and minorities to go around is a debatableattract and retain the highest quality turnover rate, and difficulty in competingsh~· from r adkal surgery that is required point." With all due respect, I would argue minority and women scholars. When the for candidates who are asking for higherto save his patient, so we as a nation must that it isnot at all debatable. As theUniversity refuses to appoint a full time salaries than their white male coun­Carnegie Council report published thisnot shrink from the effective and affirmative action officer against the terparts. Your suggestion that we should•·esponsible use of affirmative action to repeated recommendations of its af­week makes clear, the colleges and promote lass capable females andelimate the cancer of racial discrimination universitites of America are facing afirmative action committee, and when the minorities simply to increase numbers is"supply" program in female and minority 
in our lives." University fails to make any effort to unworthy of a great university. We haveappointments to their faculties. Currentlyrecruit for a position where qualified rejected that policy in student admissions, We must look to Fr. Hesburgh again for of all Ph. D.s awarded nationally, only 20minority and women applicants could and will not adopt it in faculty ap­such moral leadership on this issue. It is a per cent go to women 3 per cent to blacks,easily be identified, one can only question pointments.
sad irony that in 1959, while serving on the its basic commitment to the goals of af­and less than 1 per cent to Chicanos. AtU.S. Commission on Civil Rights, Fr. firmative action and to bringing an end, The difficulty in trying to speak sensibly Hesburgh was one of the first Americans this rate it is going to take four to fiveonce and for all, to racism in America. 

on this importmant yet intricate issue is to call for the Federal government to We must hope that Fr. Hesburgh will years to produce enough black Ph.D.s to the almost wilful determination i:lf criticscondition its grants to higher education supply each institution of higher education pause and give to Notre Dame the on either side to misconstrue. I did not goinstitutions upon compliance with the with only one more than they now have,leadership on thsi issue which he has so to· Washington to criticize . affirmativenewly emerged national policy of non­and nearly fifteen years to give eachgenerously and honorably given to the , action or the government's support fordiscrimination.Repeatedly during his United States and the World. 
college one more Chicano with a doctorate. 
equal employment opportunity. I went to argue that the Executive Order conflictsDOONESBURY bv Garrv Trudeau with the sense of the U.S. Constitution, and to plead that the enforcement procedures of the Department of Labor are incapable of accomplishing what they aim at. J'he
t.XCUSe M/3, 
University has better reasons than ·the
HMM.•. YOV MR.PRI3SI­
government for wanting more females and 
MeAN THe OeNT-M!S5 
minorities at Notre Dame, and probably
CAliFORNIA PAYTONA 500 
has better ways of attaining that goal than
/SHCR/3 7lJ
PRIMARY\ Rlr 
M&fi YOIJ. 
the ones imposed upon us. Thus, I cannot 
I 
agree with those who accuse their colleagues of bad faith in the matter; 

have seen much good faith. Nor can I agree that if one criticizes federal regulations, one is to be considered hostile to equal opportunity. 
.. 
<Rev.) James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C Provost 
•
•
•
• • •
•
•



NTERPOINT • • 
Hesburgh's Stance 

I. Pro111111 imposition of thl' sanctions of t·ontrad lt•rmination and dt'barment '' ht•rt• non-compliancl' is found and notn•nu•dit•d within a rt•asonable pl'riod of I imt·." 
"Tiw whole subject is very complex," llt>sburgh said in an interview about his apparent change of mind. He stressed the distinction between the action demanded by thP Civil Hights Laws and executive orders versus the demands placed on Universities by new H.E.W. department rPgulations. "They require a lot of paperwork that is irrelevant to real af­firmat ivt• action and insist that univer­sitil's play a numbers game -anyone can makP liP numbers." 
Jll'sburgh vgain stressed the ad­ministration's stand that the federal agencies are demanding goals that are unreachable because of a lack of qualified pt•ople. "We cannot have a good faith program to go for something that is im­possible." he said. 
lit• attempted to explain the difference over the use of the contract power. "I was going at the problem from the en­forcement angle whereas Fr. Burtchaell is going at it from the Constitutional angle. 
Patrick Hanifin 
It is true .tpat the Constitution clings to federal money and that people who defy the federal governments an­tidiscrimination laws should not get federal money. I agree that the depart­ments should still hvae the power to get action but their methods and demands have become self-defeating." 
The question of available and qualified people is indeed a complex one and is disputed elsewhere ori this page. But Fr. Burtchaellspeaking for Fr. Hesburgh and the University. did attack the use of the contract power itself to attain "social objectives" even though that power is at the heart of present civil rights en­forcement efforts. This still seems con­Irary to the position which Hesburgh took \\·hile he was on the Commtsswn and which, aside from disagreements about the particular rules to be enforced, he still says he takes. 
llesburgh's record on the Civil Rights Commission was extremely admirable and strong--strong enough to get him fired bv Nixon for doing his job too well. But it is always more difficult to hold to a theory when one's own organization is directly t•oncerned. Perhaps the discrepancies are only apparent but in a University that says it is \o'tallycommitted to equal opportunity they are disturbing. 


Action and Opportunity 
A Critical assumption underlying the doctrine of "Equal Opport­
unity" is that the detrimental effects of discrimination against 
women and members of particular racial-cultural groups operate 
most insidiously to perpetuate injustices in ways that are not really 
t•vident to observers who focus on statistics and legal mechanisms. 
Consequently, this doctrine embodies not only a concern for the 
t'limination of explicit discriminatory practices, but also for 
remedial elimination of subliminal effects. As a rt"sult, "Affirmat­
ivt· ,\l·tion" tn l'nd discrimation t"ntails much more than sim11l)· 
n·mnving t"Xisting l'xplicit discriminatory practices and-or posting 
signs indicating mf'mbership in the t"litt" club of "Equal Opport­
unity E IIIJiloyt•rs." 
lkyond the persistence of racism and sixism, I see two fun­
damental reasons for the particular strength of opposition to 
bringing the educational establishment under scrutiny. First, the 
ideaology associated with higher education creates, on my view, a 
fictional distinction between educational establishments and other 
organizations. Second, there is a widespread tendency to inap­
propriately associate certain aspects of enforcement with the 
l'limination of discriminatory practices when, in fact, much of the 
enforcement is explicitly directed toward latent phenomena. 
l<'ocusing on the first point testing, promotion and seniority 
arrangements in business enterprises are being revamped to 
separate out "skills assessment" from aspects which simply 
perpetuate exculsion of particular groups. This is not the case, 
however, for analogous mechanisms in higher education. Ex­
tension of this revamping to higher education would seem logical if 
a concern for "Academic Excellence" in fact exists in higher 
Pducation. In particular, the question of where "Acqdemic Ex­
n•II('Jll't"" t•nds and whl'rl' exclusion bt"gins is simply not being 
askt•d. If it were asked, it might be found that existing rules in all 
areas relating to hiring, promotions and job security maintain a 
sizable number of "unqualified" individuals in important positions. 
On the second point, the proponents of Affirmative Action are 
probably more cognizant than its opponents of the potential detrimental long run effects if reliance on numerical goals, quotas, ·etc. become the core of continuing attempts to bring about a hight­ened concern for social justice. The proponents of Affirmative Action view these regulatory procedures as necessary short run instuments rather than permanent fixtures. This conception can be clearly seen from recent court decisions, which incidentally, present a much different picture about the future of Affirmative Action litigation than that painted in a recent letter which referred, 
in a non-specific manner to the DeFunis vs. Odep;aard case. 
Probably the clearest statement comes from the Second Circuit 
Court of Appeals in Norwalk CORE vs. Norwalk Redt"Vt"lopment 
Agt•ncy which noted in part: 
"What we have said may require classificatimn by race. This is something which the Constitution usually forbids, not because it is inevitably an impermissible classification, but because it is one which usually, to our national shame, has been drawn for the purpose of maintaining racial inequality. Where it is drawn for the purpose of achieving equality, it will be allowed, and t_o the extent it 
-..... 

Ethics and Politics 
Affirmative action is of immediate concern to the faculty, particularly non­tenured members whose career ad­vancement or termination may be at take. Affirmative action commands respect because it offers political support for minority group members who are asserting their just claim to equal access to positions of social status and for women who are increasingly seeking careers outside the home. Implementation of affi­rmativt" action under some interprt"tations t·ould subordinatt" faculty appointments to unwantt•d political control. 
A clear evil prompted affirmative action programs. Organizations with monopolistic control of well paid jobs shut out racial minorities. Clearly discriminatory hiring practices provided legitimate demands for government redress particularly as trade unions and monopolistic enterprises are maintained under government auspices. Although not as tightly organized against a free labor market. universities have been less than saintly in their employment practices; and the practice of unequal pay would seem in­defensible for women or other individuals carrying equal responsibilities. 
To combat the more blatant dis­niminatory employment policies, af­firmative action regulations were applied by the government to those in some way contracted to the federal government. Quotas and time-tables for compliance were established to dismantle identifiable barriers to employment opportunities. 
Notre Dame after some controversy has just signed an affirmative action program committing itself to increased promotion of the careers of racial minorities and women. Hl'gardless of any legal l'l'tJUil't'lllt"nts OJ' thirst for public funds, an l'lhical llnivt'l'sity must affirm its com­mitnwnts to Jlroviding opportunitit"s for 

ic 
James Stewart 
is necessary to avoid unequal treatment by race, it will be required.'' 
If. on the other hand, predictions of the demise of Affirmative Action enforcement are correct, it will be significant that dissipation of the "Second Reconstructon" will occur ap­proximately 100 years after the end of the first Reconstruction. Such a development would , on my view, provide the ultimate expression of the irrelevance of the Bi-Centennial celebration to peoples of African descent. When injustices were obvious, (at least to many) as in the case of chattel slavery and ,Jim Crowism there was comparatively less opposition to employing broad-based int­ruments. As an example, on many interpretations, the Civil Rights Act of 1866 is the most powerful legislation existing in this area. Whl'n injustict"s art' not obvious, many find it more comfortablt" to modify values rather than to modify behavior. 
I am willing to stipulate that modifications are required in the application and enforcement of Affirmative Action guidelines in colleges and universities. In particular, one <I hope) unintended consequence of the current thrust is a hastening of the elimination of Black Studies arrangements. On my value judgments, the provision of a truly pluralistic education via Black Studies arrangements and their counterparts is of at least equal im­portance to dispersing individuals across departments, par­ticularly where supply problems do, in fact, exist. 
A short run compromis~ on Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action in higher educaton might entail the interpretation of per­sonnel gains in Black Studies and its analogs as evidence of sincere efforts to put the ideals of Equal Opportunity into effect." Cer­tainly, there should be less of a supply problem in staffing the remaining Black Studies Programs, as some estimates of the number of such programs which have been eliminated in the last five years run as high as 400 In the interim, some clear thinking could be undertaken to address the supply problem in other areas. I must again go on rt"corl as maintaining that Notre Damt"'s ex­JJerit"nCI' to datt" with thl' Afro-American Fellowship Pt·ognuu underscores tht" inadequacy 'of the solution proposed by the Provost. 
In either case, perverted concentration on statistics inhibits a frontal assault on the essence of the problem -a lack of insight and commitment at the highest levels of the Administration. A an example, even though Black Studies was intrumental in the est­ablishment of the Afro-American Fellowship Program, the Program is structured such that the recipients need not make the slightest co .... ibutlon ~o Black Studies. Fortunately, there are many individuals in lower level positions in the Administraton and individual faculty members who have been and continue to be, instumental in making positive contributions in the areas ad­dressed in this position paper. 
Money is not-enough: as should be readily evident from the failure of the ill-fated "War on Poverty" during the 1960's. In the t!l70's thert" is a more pernicious problem which must be ad­drt"ssed--moral bankruptcy which does not discriminate or reverse discriminatt" on tht" basis of race, creed, color, national origin, socio-economic status, or level of _educational attainment. 

Carleton Sterling 

;md Jll'oft"ssional attainmt"nts. 
Individual faculty who must bear ultimate responsibilities for academic ethics have a moral obligation to support student and colleague development regardless of race, sex, or creed. Such support is not readily susceptible to legal regulation and may even conflict with goals for academic advancement set by outside authorities. 
Commitment to fostering intellectual development within the academic com­munity can have radical consequences. It should lead us to prod female students to consider professional careers even though their upbringing may have set their sights primarily on motherhood and wifedom. Although Notre Dame parents generally have weaker career aspirations for their daughters than for their sons, we must respond to the changing roles of women t'vident in falling birth rates, increased out-of-home employment. and rising career aspirations. This obviously is a delicate matter because we have no right to malign more traditional life choices and students may find new • choices unsettling. 
The greatest benefit of the affirmative action issue may be to sensitize us .more to our obligations to students in a period of altering cultural values and expanding life choices. 
Affirmative action, however, is a political tool that can overrule personal views of right conduct. Father Burtchaell has also warned of the dangers of af­firmative action intervention in academic govemance. His citing of Carnegie In­stitute findings that despite a ti~<ht market for faculty positions, minorities and women were reasonably well pla~d. confirms the impression of those of us familiar with the academic job market. 
If barriers to employment opportunities are falling, then proponents of increased government regulation have an obligation to specify the concrete evils whose redress is sought. Nepotism rules and unequal pay are easy targets and they can be struck without threat to academic integrity. But wht•n affirmativt> action is not dirt>ctt"d at dt"arl~· n•t•ognizt"d rl'strictions on op­purtunitit"s, tlwn govt"rnmt>nt intt"rvt'ntion l"an arbitrarily infringt" on acadl'mic St"lf­gon•J'Illlll'nt and st"riously \'iolatl' tht" Sllirit of a frt"t" uniVI'I'Sity. 
Obviously people have different per­ceptions about the legitimate scope of affirmative action and lack of specificity about what affirmative action requires admits the possibility of new abuses in the name of remedying old abuses. Clearly affirmative action is aimed at social l'hange. Universities may be the in­situations most open to social change, but goals are demanded that will allow a redistribution of social positions based on the principle of proportional represen­tation of designated groups. Distributions reflecting cultural bias are suspect and their eradication is demanded. Bringing the distribution into conformance with such goals requires central administration to prevent academic departm('nts from marching to the tune of different drum­mers. 
It may seem strange that even the most progressive institutions are under in­dictment for lack of social conscience, but no institution can escape cultural biases affecting the proportions of minorities holding laculty positions. Certainly at Notre Dame there is still the lingering notion among some of the faculty that adult women's involvement should be largely limited to home, children, and church. While our functional role under coeducation must stimulate con­sideration of alternative life styles, the establishment of quotas for preferred groups and central supervision of academic advancement in the name of new value imperatives must produce injustices. 
Individuals cannot be treated justly if cultural imperatives are overridden by goals and timetables for achieving proportional distribution of social position to designated groups. We have obligations to the aspirations of all persons and en­couraging self-achievement could be denigrated by attempts to advance people according to their group identies. Thus whill' committl'd to affirmativl' action in an l'thical st"nsl'. Wt" may havt" to dl'ft"nd tht• intl'grity of our full obligations against Jlolitical intt"rft"rt'nCl' not aimt"d at clearly spt•cifit"d abusl's but offt"ring tht" un­rulfillablt' promist' that justict' for groups can bt' advancl'd by ignoring thl' claims of individuals. 


------------------~ -­
8 the observer Friday, October 17, 1975 
presents

In volunteer Renew program 


lngmar Bergman's
Stude.nts renovate homes SCENES FROM 
by Mary Mungovan volunteers. Renew, Inc. was founded in 1972 A MARRIAGE Staff Reporter "It's a chance to get away from by Fr. Ken Maley, pastor of Christ the books, do something useful, the King Parish. Since that time, SUNDAY OCT. 19 Ten to fifteen St. Edward's and and meet other people," one 40 homes have been renovated. In 
7 and 10 om

Lewis Hall volunteers will trade volunteer commented. Holy Cross Parish alone, under the their books for paintbrushes and Each Renew division is direction of Marcella Pynaert, four ENG. AUD. hammers Saturday · 'morning responsible for choosing the house of the 40 were restored, invovling ADMISSION $1 to help renovate South to be renovated and for screening 50 to 75 parishioners. Bend home on Walnut Street. the famiies who will move in, Dougherty discussed the The Notre Dame volunteers, di­subject to confirmation by Renew, possible consequences of Renew rected by Bill Seeger and Paul Inc. for the individual families and for Campagna, together with volun­"The family is usually just above the community. 

Randy

teers from Holy Cross Parish, the level of poverty in which they "The project not only advances 
Martin & Moon­

coorcdinated by James Dougherty, would qualify for welfare," the comfort and security of these associate professor of English, will Dougherty explained, "They have families, it is a dignifying thing. It 
l light Oasis. 
devote their unskilled labors to steady jobs, but would be unable to gives them a stake in the house and 
C \t~o Appearing now project "Renew". afford a house on the open its upkeep," he stated. 
' .411U'• thru Oct. 25th. 
Renew, Inc. is a non-profit market." "It can perhaps arrest a block or organization in South Bend which Renew acquires th substandard neighborhod decay," he continued, buys substandard houses to resell housing from the FHA or Model ''or prevent undesirable transients to low-income families, after Cities Program or buys run-down and •absentee landlords from 




SGJe PEPPEl'S
Yolunteers have restored them to homes valued at around $3,000 for acquiring the homes," he added. Fl'deral Housing Authority the renovation. 
Dougherty sees a trend toward 
standards. The organiztion has ei­"Since the houses are sold on community self-help in such ght branches, both Catholic paris­land contract, Renew is respons­projects as the Federal govern­hes and non-Catholic groups, of ible for them until the morgage is ment's Urban Homesteadingwhich Holy Cross Parish is one. paid. The usual monthly morgage program ind in the Park Avenue 

Renovation usually invovles payment of $90, however, is less neighborhood improvement plans ~ 423 N. Michigan • South Bend.~
basic carpentry, plumbing, wiring than most of these families are in South Bend. or miscellaneous clean-up and now paying in rent," Dougherty maintenance, according to Seeger. stated. Contributions and 
"'Approxiamtely 60 students from morgage payments pay for im­and professors participated in the ,.
Several Notre Dame students 
"''""'~~::::~!!!~=====~~!!~~~~~::Il·:O 
both halls have signed up, but provements, taxes and a con­Holy Cross projects on Harvey and students from any hall can partici­tingency fund for emergencies. Diamond Streets, last year, but it pate," he said. Renew has just this week been was not until this. year that it was 
"'We can be called on by any one designated by the American Cath­organized as a "campus-wide of the eight divisions, Campagna olic Bishops' "Campaign for Community Service project s­added, "but with 60 volunteers, we Human Development" for a erving all eight Renew divisions." won't have to call on the same $100,000 grant, Dougherty an­Seeger said. people every time." nounced. ·'This is in recognition of 
Materials and tools a1resupplied the fact that the neighborhood self­*1\HE-\.~ by Renew and transportation help impetus is the foundation of 
~~\)OS1' TRRDINt;~

depends on the combined efforts of any true urban renewal," he South Bend and Notre Dame stated. 
CAMP 7 DownPorko. Welfare payments rise; 
record high is disclosed 
WASHINGTON (APl -The Monthly AFDC payments av-nation 's welfare expenditures eraged $64.30 per recipient or shot up 20 per cent in the last $212.90 per family last year, fiscal year as the rolls of the compared with individual pay­biggest family assistance pro-ments averaging $57.25 in 1974 gram climbed to a record high, and $53.35 in 1973. the Department of Health, Edu-The report said the AFDC ca­cation and Welfare reported seload averaged 11,078,000 per­Thursday. sons per month, an increase of IOOCENTER 
HEW said the number of per-2.1 per cent or 232,000 persons Mishawaktl, IN 4~S414 sons receiving Aid to Families which wiped out the previous with Dependent Children year's decrease of 1.8 per cent Phone: 2lq/25't-52l3 <AFDC l dipped slightly last or i96,000 recipients. June for the second straight Almost 8 million of last month after being pushed year's recipients were depend­steadily upward by the reces-ent children, a 1.4 per cent gain I sion the previous nine months. which indicated that adults 
I




THE PAN
Total welfare spending in fis-were joining AFDC rolls dis­cal 1975 ending last June 30 proportiOnately more often than reached $22.6 billion, a boost of youngsters. 20 per cent or $3.8 billion over AFUC rolls last June, the !at­the previous year. est month for which figures are 
That included $9.5 billion in available, topped 11.3 million 
money payments. a 16.8 per persons and the cost of money cent increase, and nearly $13 payments, medical care and billion for medical care of the welfare social services set a 
I I 
poor, up 22.2 per cent. new high of $2.1 billion. 
I authentl• c Itall.an 
r------------~------------, I
I RA~~!!OR ji Deep Dish Pizza. 1 
1 1

I ~wE CAN HANDLE THE TOUGH ONES" 1 I 
I SINCE 1922 1
I 289-5850 II1 wATCH OUR ADS ALL THIS .II 
1 1 1 The pizza the 
I II world awaited! WEEK FOR AN EVENT THAT I 
I I YOU WON'T BELIEVE 1
I ·I I 
I I I (Save our valuable coupons.) I 
I I I

1 1 8-pack 16 oz. 7Up or Pepsi, J. ust $1
.CLEANING • RECORING 1 I • GAS TANK REPAffiiNG I 1 
1 11 
·-rouGHGUY" 

w.Jd'"·--·~ 1 277-1221 or 277-1222 I 'I .11 for 11
SAME DAY SERVICE 
1136 MISHAWAKA 
1 I 
1"IF YOU HAVE A ROUGH TRIP AHEAD !1 Free Delivery • : oF v.~~U~~E~~~s~!. THE 1•.. _ -anywh~re on_~CI:n:lP.~~... -··--···---I.
L.-------------------J 1••·.····--·--··---------..--H•••••••-----.....
. ---~ --------­

Friday, October 17, 1975 the observer 
'One complements other·' 
Biochemist's research aids his teaching 
by Jorgl.' Fl.'rrl.'iro cells (eucaryotic cells have a social and family life: "I wouldn't year he plans to take a leave of systems at the Unive1 stity of Staff Hl.'porter nucleus as opposed to procaryotic say my research inhibits my social absence to study mammalian cell Pittsburgh medical school. 
cells such as bacteria which lack a life but it does take a lot of time. Dr. Roger K. Bretthauer, nucleus.). Also being investigated ·It's a matter of who important 
director of the program in are the functional aspects of the research is to you. You just have biochemistry and biophysics at macromolecules. to spend a lot of time on it to be Notre Dame, devotes between 50 The macromolecules referred to successful-Your family becomes and 70 per cent of his time to may be sugar-protein or sugar-li­accustomed to it." He cited 
research. "To be a good teacher pid compounds. The living system satisfaction of curiosity and pers­
one has to be active in current which Bretthauer is using to onal recognition as being two of the research", says Bretthauer who is elucidate these pathways is yeast. major rewards of research. the Chemistry Department's He is particularly interested in th­When questioned as to what he longest serving active biochemist. ose macromolecules present on the viewed as being his primary 
Bretthauer is currently working surface of cells. Presently being function : to teach or to engage in studies is the manner in which a research, Bretthauer replied, "I 

Notre Dame -Saint Mary's Theatre needs 
CLOWNS 
for project Head Start Clown Program. 
Volunteer just an hour or two! Organizational meeting 6 pm Monday Oct. 20 in room 228 Moreau Hall, SMC. Call 277-1386 for information. 
on various aspects of the synthesis yeast cell synthesizes its cell wall. like to think a mixture of both. Oneand structure of certain complex 



, ---JoriO's---,
macromolecules in eucaryotic The associate professor in­complements the other. I have to honestly say that I enjoy research
dicated the relevance of his 
more, but I also enjoy teaching,

research stating, "A lot of this 
especially the contact with the

recently has become relevant with ~ 
CARRY -OUT !
students. Research is actually a

respect to contrql of cell division. 
type of teaching."

That is. if a cell has an altered cell surface then t might lose control of Currently the monetary support I t
for his research comes from the

division." He also noted the im­
National Science Foundation.

portance of molecules present on a 
b WE DELIVER! l
There is also a small amount from

eell 's surface in regards to cell-cell 
Miles laboratories. In the past,

interaction and immunology. 
support has also been obtained Possible practical application from the National Institute of of this research may lie in finding Health. At the moment all grants 

l~/'I' l 
inhibitors of certain reaction steps received total around $30,000 per in the synthesis of the cell wall, and annum. using such inhibitors as a fu­Bretthauer received his bach­~ GENUINE EAST COAST THICK : ngicide. Thus, a fungus treated elor's degree in Agricultural with the inhibiting agent would not Chemistry from the University of 
be able to form a cell wall, con­Illinois, and his Ph. D in t CRUST STYLE PIZZA (NEVER A I sequently dying. Penicillin in its biochemistry from Michigan State. 
t t
action against bacteria works in a He also did two years of post 
t TASTE OF BISCUIT DOUGH) t
somewhat similar manner. doctoral work at the University of The biochemist commented on Wisconsin before coming to Notre the effect his career has had on his Dame in 1964. In January of next t t

I GUARANTEED! : 
British Revolutionary plans cited 
t HOT TO YOUR DOOR EVERY TIME I 
!Continued from page 1) 
because when shot properly, they the hilt, the minutemen attend 
t t
fin• aft~r its trigger hammer is could cover a distance of 400 colonial church services ontheday pullPd. lie also pointed out that the yards. The musket efficiency of an event. The sounds of the fifes British seriously considered going ranged from 50 to 75 yards. and drums provide a festive at­
,_________________
I CALL us AT 232-7919 I
hack to the use of crossbows Carrying their reenactments to mosphere while the women anc 
children. also dressed up. 
The New England groups have

Steele to perform at Nazz 
rt>enacted the Boston Massacre, 

Singer-songwriter Bill Steele, sings contemporary songs by other tht> Tar and Feathering episode, best known as composer of the writers and a few traditional and the capturing of Paul Revere. song "Garbage!", will perform at songs, accompanying himself with They recently traveled to Quebec the Nazz from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. I<'ri. guitar and five-string banjo. to retrace Benedict Arnold's loss to and Sat.. Oct. 17 and 18. Admir<:inn will be $.50 the British early in the war. 
Although billed as a "folksinger", Steele has been described as a social com­na•ntator. His songs speak wryly-­and often hilariously--{)( politics, society and the human condition. His view of the world, which might he described as a little weird, is presented in songs with titles like "Dr. Jl.'kyll's Cola", "The Boy with the Loving Cup Ears" and "Ode to a Nt>arsighted Rabbit". 
His best-known song, "Gar­bage!", has been called "the ultimate ecology song". It has been performed by hundreds o·f a1·tists and recorded by Pete Seeger, Biff Rose and others. His own LP, titled "Garbage! and Other Garbage", is distributed by Bay Records. 
Along with his own songs, Steele 
NOW OPEN GENERAL STORE 
FEATURING JEANS & TOPS FOR GUYS & GALS 
COME CHECK OUT OUR FADED GLORY JEANS AND JACKETS 
1621 So Bend Ave. (BEHIND LINEBACKER) Phone 233 -6867 YES, WE HAVE PAINTER'S PANTS 

plush 

George Graves 

now appearing in the Mail Pouch Hoom 

a few good miracles along about now.
ROCX GARDIN 
Like a miracle of love. And a miracle of (This weekend -no cover dedication and concern for our fellow man. charge wilh student I.D.) This is the work of the Holy Cross Fathers. To serve our fellow man, and to make the
HAPPY HOUR Mon.-Fri. 4:00-7:30 
world a better place in which to live. What LADIES' NIGHT Tues. 8:00-10:00 about you? If a total commitment is what MEN'S NIGHT Thurs. 8:00-10:00 you're looking for, join us. Odds are you'll 
PIZZAS, SNAeKS never turn water into wine, but you will help
EVERY MONDAY-REDUCED PRICES 
_& SANDWICHES 

turn hatred into love. And that is the greatest 
ON BEER AND BAR DRINKS 
SERVED ANYTIME 

miracle of them all. 
7 ft. TV screen for
Appropriate atfire required for admilfonce 

Monday night football. For information write or visit: 
FATHER JOSEPH CAREY, C.S.C. HOLY CROSS FATHERS 
BOX 541 
ST. JOSEPH HALL 
NOTRE DAMF, IND. 46556 
10 the observer Friday, October 17, 1975 
Cancer·-virus links provide three with Nobel Prize lor Physiology, Medicine 
By DICK SODERLUND 
A~sociated Press Writer 

STOCKHOLM, Sweden <AP). -Three American scientist~ were named winners of the 197~ Nobel Prize for Physiology or 
Medicine  on  Thursday for  re­ 
search  into  possible  links  be­ 
tween  viruses and  cancer.  

Dr. Renato Dulbecco, 61, an Italian-born American, will share the $143,000 award with Howard Martin Temin, 40, of the University of Wisconsin and David Baltimore, 37, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology <MITl. Dulbecco did most of his research in Cal­ifornia but moved to London 10 years ago and now works at the Imperial Cancer Research Fund Laboratory. 
The prize-awarding faculty of Sweden's Caroline medical in­stitution cited the three micro­biologists for discoveries show­ing "the interaction between tu­mor viruses and the genetic material in the cell." 
Dulbecco said in London he was surprised that Temin and Baltimore were co-winners since, while all three were well acquainted, they had done their research independently. Dul­becco said he felt almost like a father to both of them. 
"I know them very, very well and see them frequently, but 1t 's only recently that we real­Ized our efforts were con­verging," he said. "We thought we had been doing quite differ­ent things." 
Temin was one of Dulbecco's students in the 1950s at the Cal­ifornia Institute of Technology occur from the genetic material while Baltimore was part of a DNA <deoxyribonucleic acid) to Dulbecco-led team at the Salk the alternate genetic material Institute at La Jolla, Calif. RNA <ribonucleic acid) and not 
Temin said in Madison, Wis., in the other direction. that he was "overwhelmed and 
Both Temin and Baltimore
honored" when he received the to in­
news from Baltimore, who tele­were able accumulate 
direct evidence showing the oc­
phoned from New York, where he is visiting professor at Rock­currence of a specific enzyme 
in RNA tumor virus particles
efeller University. 
Through parallel research, which could make a DNA copy from RNA, the Caroline In­
Temin and Baltimore achieved 
stitute said.

a major breakthrough in tumor virus mechanisms in 1970. 
Temin said his present re­
A central dogma in the field search is attempting to "under­of molecular biology at one stand the relationship of the time implied that information laboratory tumor versus natu­transfer in nature could only ral cancer." 
Clown volunteers sought for drama department 
by Kathy Byrne Staff Revorter 
Volunteers are needed to be clowns at 19 Head Start Centers in the South Bend area the week of October 27. 
The purpose of the program is to initiate the children to school. It is sponsored by the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Speech and Drama Department. 
"It's a lot of fun and the kids really love it," said Debbie Hale, Head Start Clowns spokesman. "No special talent is needed." 
An organizational meeting will be held in room 228, Moreau <SMC) 

ACTION EXPRESS sponsored by the OMBUDSMAN SERVICE Monday thru Friday 9:30am to 5:00 pm 
Monday thru Thursday 9:00pm to midnight phone 283-7638 

Q. Are there any activities planned by the Junior Class this year? 
A. Threre will be a formal dance on November 7 at the Indiana Club. John Donahue, 1765, is in charge of this event. In addition to this, the annual Junior Paerent's weekend will be held early next s­emester on Febuary 27, 28 and 29. Nancy Cueronl,8067, is respon­
sible dorthis. 

Q. Are David Crosby and Graham Nash really coming and if so,
when? 

A. They are coming to Notre Dme for an 8 pm show on j Saturday, Novenmer 8. Tickets go on sale Fri., Oct. 24, and will cost $5 and $6 
Q. How valuable is the Golden Dome in terms of gold alone? 
A. Considering that there are 3500 square feet of gold plate on the dome at a thickness of approximately 1-10,000 of an inch, one can understand the $800,000 estimated value. But hang on to your tui­tion, it's replaced only once every ten years and is paid for by Uncle 
Sam. 

Q. What is the minimum GPA for an undergraduate student? 
A. For one's first semester, it's 1.700, second semester 1.850, third semester 2.000 and the fourtl"andsubsequent semesters 2.000. 
Q. When do deficiency reports go out? 

A. Deficiency reports were turned in by instructiors yesterday. They will be mailed out on Oct. 23. 
at 6 p.m. Monday. Costumes and 
make-up will be exhibited and the 
group will plan songs and skits. 
· "Since some of the kids got 
scared last year when they saw all 
the clowns marching in, we'll have 
one person put on his costume and 
make-up right in front of them," 
Hale said. 

Most of the visits to the centers 
will be in the morning because few 
hold afternoon sessions. 

"Since we have such short notice and so many places to visit we really need a lot of volunteers," Hale said. "It will only take a few hours and costumes and make-up are all provided. It really does mea a lot to the little kids." 
Law schools 
(Continued from page 3) 

pointed out that the average age in 
first year Jaw schools has been 
rising in recent years, as more 
people delay their entry into law 
school. 

Following the student's GPA in importance, the LSAT score is significant as a measure of expect­ed law school performance. 
Waddick said that most law schools use a formula that weighs the GPA as two and the LSAT score as one. The resutling figure is a very accuarte index to estimate the first year per­formance in law school.
Waddick noted that the national 
average score on the LSAT was 500, ranging from a low average of 
4 

-woody Allen's 
BANANAS BANANAS BANANAS 
·Thurs. Oct. 16 & Fri. Oct. 17 7, 9,11 PM Eng. Aud. Adm. $1 
4Jb 
HOUSE SPECIALTY 


h1stle PRIME RIB 
Double Cut 

.I top ,-w-Eo-.,=1~";:uR~
.• -==sr=Ec~,A~L-, 

SOVTH SEND, II\IDIA"'A 
TURF &SURF 

TERRIFIC COCKTAILS • fi\et $ 695 
11 A.M. to 2 A.M. PRIVATE MEET1NG·L-fi•ril~ob~s~te~r;:;::;=:::J
ROOMS 1 FRI & ,l5-~~,l~EOPLE ''ALi. y~~r. SPECIAL \\ fROG LE CAN EAT'' 
,..~ ~ ~ •~ s..,._ GS~
J"o~\~'~ i t 't !:_ltlclt F,t, ~6 9 5 
~ • .. f ~ . J 
t ­
602 So. Walnut (formerly lrvins) Phone 232-2494 ­
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just 
mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. except home football game weekends. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 
00 to a high average of 600. Agove ;;.=============-==========~
600 is high; higher than 700 is very 

high. He added that • "As the 
quality of the school gets higher, 
the median LSAT score also shows 
an increase. Some schools which claim subjective selecting methods also tend to have students 
with LSAT scores of near 700. This
is because these schools draw the 
students withthe higher scores, and then can be very selective of whom 
~~~ri~ri~~~~~~~~~+,n::;:n~..:i;;'~~ they accept." 
4 ************ *************************** 
~ SUPER DEALS : 
*~ MON -Quater Drinks Mixed Drinks 25ct 8 -10 *~ * TUE -Di1me Beer Movie at 9:00 * 
*
*~ WED -Prices Slashed All Day ** Start the Weekend Early
* THURS -Dollar Off All Pizza 
** FRI -T. G. I. F. DRAFT 25¢ 4
*
* FREE CHEESE & CRACKERS : * • SAT -T. V. Sports DRAFT 35¢ 
:
* 
*
*: 
* 
* -7 ** 
* 
' * 
* 
1 -7 : 
* 
* 
i ~ FAT WALLY'S i: 
·~ * 
*~***************************************************** 
GOOD THING GOES ON! 
A very informal gathering of goo~ p~ople at the Campus Ministry Activities Center, the little green house · corner of Bulla Rd. and Juniper (across from Grace Tower). 
Everyone welcome -· Mass at 5:15 followed by supper ~-Today and every ~riday 
_. 


/ 

ND vs. other universities 
Cantpus policies discussed 
(Continued from page 1) Smith said. Fewer people left l'ampus to go to town, he noted. 
t 'ornl'll 

Cornell University is consi~ering the possibility of .purchasmg a Burger King franchise. lnst~a~ of merely collecting commiSSIOn from a l'Ompany. . 
Food Director Art Jager cited two reasons favoring purchasing such a franchise. 
"1-'irst. we want to employ our own people from the university and 
the observer 

Night Editor: Dan Sanchez Assistant Night Editor: Mary Janca Layout Staff: Katie Henderson, Anne Reilly Day Editor: Margie lrr, Mauree· Flynn Copy Readers: Fred Herbst, Mary Egan Editorials: Martha Fanning, Pat Hanafin Features: Tom O'Neil Sports: Tom Kruczek, Bob Piller 
Typists: Mel Cleste, Tessie Clemens, Howard Halle Compugraphic: Chip Spina Night Controller: Marth Fanning Ad Layout: Pat Russell, Mike Miller 
IF YOU WANT THE BEST : 
SPAGHETTI, PIZZA or SANDWICHES, 

THEN WHY NOT GET IT? 
--YOU CAN AT : 

GIUSEPPE'S 7 l 3 E. LASALLE so: BEND 
PRIVATE PARTY ROOM CARRY OUTS 233-0951 
WANTED 
Nt>Pd monl'y? Nl'l'd food? Nl'Pd a fril'nd? I'll bl' your fril'nd, bakp you cookil's, and pay you hand· soml'IY for 1·4 GA tix to any homl' qame. Joanil' 1327 
Nt>Pdl'd: only one USC ticket. Call 7471 
~~~­

Nt>Pd USC, Navy, and Pitt tickets. 
Call chris 2n1400 
Nt>Pd 2 GA tickl'tS for Gt>Orgia TPch. Call Stl'lll' 8851 
Wantl'd: 2 GA tickets for USC. Ask for Ron 9-5 only. Call colll'ct 312·482·8820 
HELP! I NEED 8 USC FOOT. BALL TICKETS. STUDENT OR GENERAL ADMISSION. WILL PAY $$. CALL NOW! 289·9174 ~------Help! Nl'l'd 2 or 3 GA tix to Gt>Orgia Tl'ch. or Navy. Call Jim 1188 
NPPd 3 USC tix. Call Dan 1219 
Help a mother !>t'l' thl' NO Navy gaml'. Will pah 
top s tor 2 3 GA tickets. Call 287­6607 4 7 pm anytiml' aftl'r 11 pm 
Willtradl' I student USC tlckl't and $$ for 2 GA Navy tix! Chuck 1380 
NPl'd 5 USC tiCkl'IS. Will trade I'XCl'lil'nt Jl'thro Tull liX plus monl'y. Call Bill 8311 
Crying for 2 Navy tickets 6896 
N!'Pd 2 GA USC tix badly. Call Elll'n 3468 
Dl'Spt>ratl'IY need 4 GA OR 1/• GA AND 11• STUDENT TIX FOR Navy. Will pay Wl'll. Call Aill'l'n 1341 
·-~~~-­
Nt>Pd rldl' to Champaign, Ill. Oct 17 lh Share l'Xpl'nSI'S. Call J lm 3593 or.3610 
~~~~ 

NPPd two USC tickets for our sistprs. (student or GAl Call Coops or Pat 1654 
Nt:>ed 3 USC tickets. Call Mike after 6 pm. 288·0088 
I'm looking for four good SPats to thl' BPach Boy concert. Call Mike aftpr 6 pm. 288-0088 
DPsperatPIY need ride to Dayton, Ohio. Wl'Pkend of Oct. 17 Lisa 44634 
supply them with JObs. Secondly, a considerable amount of money will be made and we prefer this money to remain in the school. The University can then use this profit to hold down food prices in the future on campus," he stated. 
Primarily a commuter school, Cornell has only 4,000 campus residents out of 16,500 students, Jager said. No semester meal passes are required, he not~d. All food plans are voluntary, smce so many students live off-campus. 
"To convert a campus building into a Burger King would cost roughly $100,000," he said. "The cost is quite reasonable, con­
sidering the pay-back period is
relatively short," Jager said. "I would say it would pay for itself in about ten years." 
The project is still under con­sideration and no contract has yet been signed, he maintained. The 
University Senate, composed of students, faculty and ~d­
ministrators, is expected to decide whether or not to purchase a 
franchise by the end of the this semester, he said. Notre Dame To set up franchises on the Notre 
D~me 't cam 1~us is da.gainstt
m.uversi Y. po ICY, acc~r mg o VIce-President for Busmess Af­
,._;;Fr;;;ld;;a~yL,~Oc:t;;ob:e:,r_:1,:;7,;;;;1;;'7;;;;s~~~;;;;;:;~t~h~e~o~b:;s:;e~r:v:e;._:r-:=::::;1_1
**** NOTICE TO OFF-CAMPUS 
STUDENTS 
-DID YOU END UP WITH LEFT-OVER OFF CAMPUS HOUSING? -ARE YOU IN A HIGH CRIME AREA? -DOES THAT CERTAIN COED DESIRE YOU TO BE NEARER THE CAMPUS? 
IF YOU ANSWERED YES TO ANY OF THE ABOVE QUESTIONS -MOVE TO 
THE NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 
WE HAVE A FEW VACANCIES THAT WE WILL RENT FOR $75 PER MONTH PER STUDENT (MINIMUM TWO STUDENTS ) 
COMPLETELY FURNISHED 
TWO 

BEDROOM APARTMENTS
**** NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 
.._______-"'~'-"~'~-~---------------~ lllfdl'):J:':rr:·z·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·::;·:·:·:·::::::;<:).:·:::::::-:w::-;·:::;::::;·-a-~~···::;·~ 
.... ·s··o"'c"lA.L. COMM...
,,---· ...,.. _____ __,Ms ~  .....c  ~.. ,_  r.=:-.~. •  
~ :..:~..  PRESENTS  ~: .:...  
.;: ;.;. ~~  8 AR A STREISANBR D  ·::• ~  
:;~ ~::; ::~ ....  FILM FESTIVAL  ~ ~3 ::C~·•  
i=·.·:=~·:.;::i::  l )•  OWL AND THE PUSSYCAT  :..:~:.:-~:~·::.:.·  
..  

t*** **************************I SUN, OCT. 19th 7:30 and 9:30 !
: Uhe :~ 2.) UP THE SAND BOX t: W'nJ, !I OCT. 21st 7:30 and 9:30~
TUES. 
: l 1ammeni 3.) i
FOR PETE'S SAKE : #j~j~ WED. OCT. 22nd 7:30 and 9:30 ~:~: 
* HAIR DESIGN :f.=.~.l.• :~
* ~ jll~ 4.) THE WAY WE WERE I.-.­: FOR THE SEXES *:::: THURS. OCT. 23 7:30 and 1o:ool: : : \ljl INCLUDES CARTOONS I
* *~ I
i 1637 LWW SO. BEND PH. 232-6622 :@ O'LAUGHLIN AUD. :~~ **!~;-:;~v~~;~*~\Hj-~N*T~;~J;** #t=~*::=:=:=:=:::=:=:::::=:::::=:~Rt1J~~J9~~~::-=···xm:=~·~===·-·=·-·=-~~~~ 
fairs f<'r. Jerome Wilson. 
"Our policy is to hire good men to manage the enterprises on campus with the hope of saving the University money and the students as well," he stated. 
"If there is a profit to be made, we think we should make it and thereby, keep the student tuition low. All profits from campus endeavors (including the Huddle> are used to offset a portion of the academic expenditures of the University," he said. 
Several firms have made some contact with the University about establishing franchises on campus, but up to this time the University 
has "not been interested," Wilson
said. "If the University employs top managers there is no reason for not giving satisfactory service to 
faculty, staff and students. At the same time, it would save profits the franchise would realize," he noted.
The size of the student body was another reason Wilson cited as a 
factor in considering the ad­vantages and disadvantages of a 
franchise. Schools with franchises 
on campus tend to be quite large
b th ants a good 
v~f~~~eof~~~~:S~~h:said. 
Notre
Dame, with about 7,000 students, is l'omoaratively small. 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
Nl'ed four GA tlx for Gt>Orgla Tl'ch. gaml'. Call 4·5740 
NPPdl'd: Two GA southern Cal. tix. Pleasl' call John at 34467 
Nel'd 5 or 6 GA USC tlx Call Mary BPth 1285 
NPI'd GA Southl'rn Cal. fiX. Call 6896 
Help! desperately need ride to NYC area weekend of Oct. 17 Will Share expenses and driving. Call Jen 7248 
Nl'l'd $$$? II nl'l'd 2 GA USC tiX. Call Brian 3260 
Good money p<~id for any home tickPts. Call John 1816 
Ot:>Spl'ratl'IY nl'ed 1 USC and Navy tickl'l Call Pam 4-4161 
Nl't:>d 2 tickt:>ts tor Gl'orgia TPch. Call 1038 
Ski instructors wantl'd. Must ski Wl'll, experience not necessart. will train. Kitty Martin 695.5495 or Royal Valll'y, Buchanan, Mich. 20 min. from Notrl' DamP. 
DPSpl'ratPIY need 6-10 USC tix. Pay well. Tom 7795 
Nt:>Pd part limP pmployment? Call 277 ·1221 altt>r 5 pm 
Wantl'd: 4 GA tickl'ts to Navy and usc. Call Marty or Joe at 287·5113 
3 GA GA. Tl'ch. tix to trade for Navy or SPII 8698, Charlie 
Nl'Pd only 1 Southt>rn Cal. ticket and . or 2 Gt>Orgla Tech. tlx. Call Jack 1131 
Nl'ed 4or 5 USC tix. Call 4·5483 
Wanted: Onl'tickl't to Navy game, anywhere, call Bill 8744 
Despl'rately need two USC tickets. Call Bob 3665 
NOTICES 
men's shirts 25 pl'rcent off with this ad. Thurs. Fril Sat. Oct. 16-17· 18 Jt:>nni Jl'nnifer's 119 W. Colfax 11:00. 5:30 
PROTESTANT AND JEWISH STUDENTS-Wl' hall!' listings of religious sl'rvices in the vicinity. If interestl'd, stop by. Office of Campus Ministry, 103 Lib. 
Accuratl', fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746 
Typing . 35 cl'nts per pagl'. Call Dan 272.5549 
Ll'gal aid: for Pligibll' ND·SMC student undl'r supl'rvision of at­torney. Coml' to Univl'rsity referrals 7795 
Farley Motel is filled for USC weekend 
Notice: to the Ptymology student who got a fll'a from my basset hound Mulfy on Tuesday outside of Galvin, Pll'asp call Terry at 287· 6638 
Flanner Records has the new Paul Simon, Dave Mason. Pink Floyd, Burce Springsteen. Herbie Han­cock and Linda Ronstadt. Also, any other albun not in stock can be ordered. Call 1488 or come to 807 
ND·SMC Council for the Retarded. Brookfil'ld zoo trip this Saturday 9:00am to 7:00pm. Good times to be had, but we need lots of hl'lp. Tom Harbin 287-6673, Kathy McGlynn 288-4315 
FOR RENT 
For rent: 3 room suite in home of young coupll' for single student. Privatl' bath, kitchen privileges. Call 289-9500 aftpr 5 pm 
FOR SALE 
~~c~~~1~4~~~teve at 1024 
5 Chicago tickets. 2 in 3rd. row main floor. 3 in Sl'ction 7 lower arl'na. BPSI Offer. Call St>an at 3510 
Quality Stl'rt>O componl'nts at 20-40 pPrcent saving. RMS Audio 321 S. Main 288·1681 12-7 pm 

For Sale: FiliP Chicago fix. 2 in front row. Charlll' 1779 
2 snow tires 13". 511 Call 232·4569 
2 Chicago tix for sale. Jack 3597 
For Sale, 1971 Datsun 240·Z 35,000 miles, Ansl'n mags, air con· ditioning and much more. Ex· cl'lll'nl condition. Call Chris 283­1788 
PERSONALS 
DPar Foofie, Confucius say: What good 2 Sll'l'ping bags Whl'n 1 will do? Sayonara 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, ROGER ANDERSEN! 
N.A.P. Wt:>lcoml' to N.D. Happy Oktoberfl'st! love you. Your Little Sister 
Here's to you, Patrick, on your birthday! 
love, me 
Phil. Shl' skell'tons are rattling and thl'irl'scape is imminl'nt. 
Mariann, Happy Birthday! 3A. 
DonS.. Happy Birthday! You've got nice ll'gs. Lovl', Little Sister and Jocko 
Hotlips: 
The lasagna was a slap in the tacp, but thl' watl'r was a kick in th('... 
Maureen, Michele , Sue, BPtSy, Mary Rose, Mary, Ellen, Sue 
Momand Dad, 
'So I became a sister again on Octobl'r 15! A girl!!! God Bless her and KEEP HER ALWAYS 
Dora M. 
Dunnl' Juan: Arl' you sure therl''S Pnough of you to go around? Thl' Harem 
Juniors Fantasclze no longer Fantasia Is here! The Jr. Class Formal tickets on sate now student Union ticket office 
Guy with my gold ring from crew practicl' call '5124 
\DPborah
Lynn. Happy 1 yr. Anniversary LOlli' you, J.S. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found: One SMC class ring. Call 287·3528 
Lost: A siilll'r nl'cklace with thrl'P rl'd stones on it. If found please rl'turn it. It was a special gift. Call Susan 2184 -~~----­
Lost: Silvt>r 10 bracl'let, name Patricia. Call 6788 
Lost: Gold charm bracelet. Little hl'arts and one big heart with a Whitl' rOSl'. Happy Birthday In scription. Pleasp call Bill at 8943 
Lost: Blut> jacket, says s. alt:>Sianum Stall' Swimming Champs. Pleasp call Kathy 4 5335 
Lost: 1 pair gold, wirerimml'd glassps at St. Mary;s bi'!Wl'l'n LPmans and the dining hall. Call 234-6352 
Found: 1 pair gold wire rim glassl's on liPid hockey liPid. Brokl'n tramPs. Initials B. B. Call Maurl'en 7515, 311 BP 
Found: 2 kl'ys on IPathl'r key chai­n on shuttle. Numberl'd 511 and 1067 Call 8340 to claim. 
Lost: pair of glasses, black case, light tan frame by Brownson. Tom 1224 
Lost: 1 pursp, brown leather, on shuttil' bus or in Library Friday night. Callk Mary Annl' 4-4007 
Found:  Blue  windbreaker  with  
NO Pmblem.  Call Jim 1578  
Lost:  gold charm  bracelet  with  

onl' gold Happy Birthday charm. Call 7628 
Lost: Ram pitching wedge. At gOlf Burke coursl' on Thursday, Oct. 9, 1975 Call 3574 · 

'­
• 
------------·-----­

Friday, October 17, 1975
12 the observer 
Irish look to improve vs. Falcons 
by Tom Kruczek 

This week the Irish need more than just another victory when they travel to Coorsland to play the Air Force. This week at Colorado Springs, the Irish need to start executing like a team, put together a sustained offensive attack and revitalize the defense, because this game marks the end of the first half of the season. The second half of the season begins with John McKay and his third ranked Southern Cal Trojans next Saturday. 
The last two games for Notre Dame. have been to say the least shaky. The loss to Michigan State featured some unbelievable hitting. 
Last week against 
North Carolina, the offense 

remained in its doldrums almost to 
the very end, and the defense, even 
in the words of Dan Devine "was 
not a stonewall." This week does 
give the Irish a chance to get their 
game together against a team that 
may not look that good on paper, 
but will show some interesting formation and has shown moments of brilliance. 
The Falcons of the Air Force are 

winless in five contests this year, 
but did tie 18th ranked UCLA 20-20. 
Devine has tremendous respect for 
the Falcons, despite their record. 
"I've coached against Ben 
Martin's Air Force teams five 
times and I've found out that they 
have always been a well-drilled 
team. They like to run out of a 
variety of offensive formations, so 
you never really know from play to 
play what they'll runout of, so your 
defense has to be extra alert." 
Heading the offensive attack for 

the Falcons will be quarterback 
Mike Worden. Last week against 
Brigham Young, Worden picked up 
R3 vards in 13 carries. "Worden's 
scrambling ability keeps the 
defense honest," Devine stated.

B i 11 Brink ~=========================================================================::======~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=============================~=~=~=~=~=;=;=~=;:;:;:;:~:::::i::::::::::::::::::::::::=~===:===========~=:::. 
The Irish Eye 
~==============================================================================~=~=~=~=~=:=~=~=~=~=~=i=:=:=:=~=~=:===~=~=:=:=~===:::::::::::::::=~=i:;:;:::::;;::::::::::::::::::':=:::::::= Fo o tba11 picks 
Ken MacAfee, Notre Dame's fine tight end, and the rest of his Irish teammates will try to sharpen 
their performance this Saturday in Colorado Springs. 
"He adds another dimension to the running attack and he can hurt you on critical downs." 
In the backfield will be senior fullback Chris Milodragovich and halfback Ken Wood. Wood had an outstanding game last week against the Cougars, gaining 70: yards in 20 carries. Wood is the workhorse of the offense, while Worden will look primarily to flanker Craig Adams in passing situations. 
On defense tht> Falcon's will rely heavily on cornerback T. G. Parker. and linebacker-kicker Dave Lawson. Lawson, a 6-1, 219 pound senior is undeniably the top placekicker in the country. He is one field goal away from breaking the NCAA field goal record held by former Stanford kicker Ron Garcia. Lawson has hit 42 field 
The big surprise last week was in the East, where West Virginia just got used as they dropped a 39-0' decision to Penn St. Not too manyactually expected the Mountaineers to pull off the upset, but the lop­sided score did raise a few eyebrows. Also in the East, :vt:aryland served notice that they're a team to be reel oned with by soundly whipping North Carolina St. ~ 
Here are the Irish Eye's Picks: 

Notr(' Dame at Air Force: The Irish used up their miracles last week, but they shouldn't need any against the Falcons. Even with its wounded troops, NO figures to overpower them . Air Force is winless, though Ben Martin's boys did tie UCLA several weeks age. Even so, theFalconsmay have to wait to play Army before they have a chance of winning. Irish by 14. Florida St. at Florida: One wonders how North Carolina St. held the Gators to 7 points four weeks ago. for they've been scoring like there's no tomorrow. This strong interstate rivalry is always intense though, so give the Seminoles a better chance. Florida by 10. 
.\nburn at Georgia Tech: Would you believe that the Yellow Jackets lead the country in rushing yardage per game? Pepper Rodgers' has bUilt a strong ground game that is totaling nearly 400 yards each game, and Auburn has had trouble with anything that moves this season. But Tech's all around talent is not quite as good as the Tigers, who though they have been disappointing this year, may pull out of it yet. Auburn by 7. Tt•xas A&M at Texas Christian: The Christian thing to do would be not play the game. The Horned Frogs are in the wrong conference (the St. Joe-Mishawaka area would be more like itl, and are completely outcla:-.;cd. The Aggie defense, tops in the nation, may no! even sweat, even in Texas. Aggies by 21. :'l;avy a 'oston College: The Midshipmen chalked up :. •:i.·t.-.. Syracuse last week, and have looked good la'"\Y The Eagles offense seems to be getting on 
.rae~, 'hough so make it B.C. by 6. ~:c.~·a :,; :.•<liana: ABC inexplicably passed this one up, lUc i• promises to be a thriller. Iowa has just come '" . Dhio St., USC and Penn St. consecutively, so the Hoosiers fit right in there-somewhere. • 
Indiana by 7.
• 
Northwestern at Michigan: Bo Schembechler says he's worried, but he must be talking about the 
. economy, because the Wolverines are in a groove now. and the Wildcats should be no problem. Wolverines by \17. · 
goals in 79 attempts while this year he is 4 of 12. Last year he con­verted on three field goals of 50 yards or over, so if the Air Force get anywhere close to Notre Dame territory, you can be sure to see Lawson. 
The Irish team that will take the field tomorrow will resemble the team that beat the Air Force 38-0 last year only in that they will be wearing the same gold-painted helmets. Last year's scorers were Russ Kornman. Tom Parise, Tom Clements, Frank Allocco. Kevin Doherty and a field goal by Dave Reeve. Except for Reeve, none of these people will face the Falcon's due to graduation or the NCAA's 48-man travelling squad rule. 
There will be more resemblance however between last week's Irish team and this week's. The offense 
Wisconsin at Ohio St.: You remember of course. This is the week that undefeated Wisconsin, after having beat Michigan, Missouri and Kansas among others, was to down the Buckeyes and wrap up the Big Ten title. I guess the Badger fans were a little off. So far the State fans haven't been. OSU by 14. Michigan St. at Minnesota: Don't laugh. The Spartans have won only one from the Gophers since 1957. And Minneapolis is especially tough for MSU. But this year they're good enough to break the jinx. Spartans by 10. Tulane at West Virginia: If the Mountaineers can recover from last week's shocker, they could beat the Greenies and end up 10-1. If Tulane coach Bennie Ellender can get his backfield in gear he might take it to West Virginia quick, like Penn State did a week ago. But look for the Mountaineers, by 7. Oklahoma at Kansas State: Barry Switzer's Sooners have had enough of these close games, and would love to repeat last year's 63-0 drubbing over the Wildcats tmaybe they'll even run it up this year). KSU is a little tougher this year, but Oklahoma is ready to kill. Sooners by 20. Missouri at Colorado: This Big Eight battle could go either way, both teams looking impressive last week, especially the Tigers, who handled Oklahoma St. easily. Big Eight contests can't be judged by past weeks, however. In fact, there's no telling what might happen. The Buffaloes are well-coached, the game is in Boulder and something in the air says Colorado, by 6. Tennessee at Alabama: If the Tide weren't riding so high, then the Volunteers would be real good bets. But Bear has whipped his team into shape and their in full gear. Tennessee would seem to be well-suited to handle the Tide <if anyone can now) because their tough defense plays well against the run <note their one defeat to pass-oriented UCLA).
Alabama by 4. ­Texas at Arkansas: They've had some wild, and controversial ones between these two teams. If the Longhorns aren't still thinking about last week's near-upset over Oklahoma then they can get down to what they do best, move the football. Longhorns by 7. 
llpset of the Week: Oklahoma St. over Nebraska. It was 7-3 last year at Nebraska and the Cowboys have the Cornhuskers in Stillwater, a place they've been very good so far this year Oast week they dropped their only road game to Missouri for their one loss this season). Nebraska is due for a letdown and this may be it. State could edge them out, by 3 or 4. 
Last week, 12-3 for .800 per cent. Season 54-17 for .765 per cent. 
will be basically the same with Rick Slager again listed as the starting quarterback. In light of last week's performance by Slager and Joe Montana's fine job of leading the Irish comeback, one has to question Devine's choice of starting quarterbacks. "Some people worry about who starts and who doesn't too much," Devine said. Each player concentrates on his position and can help the team if he is well prepared. I'm never reluctant to put a player in if he is prepared." Look for a quick hook on Slager however if he doesn't get the offense moving early. 
Injuries have necessitated some switches in the defensive lineups. ltoss Browner returns to his starting role at end this week, and will be joined by Steve Niehaus, Willie Fry and Jeff Weston as the 

Dan Devine, viewing with interest from the sidelines, wi­ll attempt to improve his record of 4-1 as he directs the Irish in their sixth game of the year against the Air Force. 
Netters host 
The Notre Dame tennis team will 
conclude its Fall workouts with the 
Irish Invitational this Friday and 
Saturday at the Courtney Tennis 
Center. The tournament will 
consist of a complete Round Robin 
and is scheduled to begin about 
noon on Friday. It will continue 
through Saturday morning and is 
expected to conclude at 4 in the 
afternoon. 

Participants in the tourney in­
clude defending champion In­
diana, as well as Purdue, Indiana 
State, Illinois State, Northern Illionois and Notre Dame. The 
Irish finished in a tie for second front four. But due to the fact that Browner may not be able to go a full game, Devine has decided that an extra end will go on the trip. This means that Tony Zappala, John Galanis and Ron Crews will make the trip, and will necessitate Nick Federenko's staying at home, again thanks to the 48-man rule. 
At linebackers, Doug Becker remains injured and will be replaced by Pete Johnson and backed up by Tony Novakov, due to an injury to Becker's usual back-up Steve Heimkrieter. Bob Golic and Jim Stock will be at the other two linebackers spots. 
The secondary remains the same with Luther Bradley and Tom Lopienski starting at cornerbacks, backed up by Tom Maschmeier and Ron Cullins. Mike Banks will be at the strong safety and Randy Harrison. who is still getting over his ankle injury will be at free safety. Ross Christensen will be Harrison's probable back-up. 
At the kicking spots, a couple of surprises were decided upon this week. Tony Brantley and Pat McLaughlin will not be leaving South Bend, with Dave Reeve being given the field goal kicking job again, after a week'sabbatical. 
Punting will be freshman Joe Restic, who looked very im­pressive in the fall practice. and will be given his first chance with the varsity on Saturday. 
The Irish need a solid per­formance against the Falcons, as after six games the team should be eom i ng together and not be bothered by inexperience. Tomorrow's game may be the turning point of the season. We can only wait to see which way that turn will go. 
The game will! begin at 2:30 tSouth Bend time l and will be televised on WNDU in South Bend. 
Michigan first 
in Invitational 
h~· Mike Towle 
Dave Smith of Eastern Michigan topped a field of 182 finishers in winning the Notre Dame Cross Country Invitational run at Burke Golf Course on Friday. In winning the event for the second year in a row. Smith set a meet record as he covered the five miles in 23:26.7. He set the old mark of 23:34 in 1974. 
Teammate Nick Ellis came in second at 23:41. 
The Michigan Wolverines repeated their team win of a year ago by placing five runners among the first sixteen. They were followed by Eastern Michigan. Wisconsin, Ball State and Edin­boro State. 
Notre Dame finished 13th out of the 28 teams with freshman Steve Welch, in 22nd, being the first Irish harrier to cross the finish. He was followed by Joe Yates in 45th, Dennis Van­derkraats in 56th, Jim Reinhart in 77th and Jay Miranda in 95th. Captain Jim Hurt was unable to complete the race because of a sore hip. thus hurting Notre Dame's chances considerably 
tourney 
last year. 
Notre Dame's Randy Stehlik, a junior from Peru, Ind. has nailed down the number one singles position. The rest of the spots are undecided with captain Mike O'Donnell havng a slight edge for the number two slot and sophmore Brian Hainline leading in the race for the third position. Seniors Paul Reilly and Dave Wheaton, along with sophmore Tony Bruno and freshman Mike Horan, round out the squad. Horan is expected to see some action in doubles. 
The public is invited and there is no admission charge. 











