Ou The Inside 
Tennessee Williams ••. page 3 ·Dean Shaffer resigns .•• page 4 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 

Vol. IX , No. 73 

Lewis Hall goes to undergrad women 

Badin Hall will become temporary grad residence 
by Terry Keeney News Editor 
Lewis Hall, a graduate women's dor­mitory since 1965, will be converted to an undergraduate women's hall this fall semester, Fr. James Burtchaell, university provost, announced yesterday. 
Badin Hall will become the temporary residence for women graduate students for the 1975-76 academic year. In fall 1976 Badin will revert to an undergraduate residence upon completion of a proposed housing complex for graduate students to be constructed at an undisclosed site. 
Plans for coeducation and housing for women after 1976 were not discussed. Burtchaell noted that the number of women to be admitted after 1976 has not been decided. 
Badin residents to Lewis 
Under the plan prepared by the officers of the University, Badin residents will move into Lewis next fall. The capacity of Lewis will increase from 143 to 286 beds by converting all the single rooms in Lewis to doubles. 
"Our expectation is that the number of students returning to Badin would be just the right number to be housed at Lewis Hall," Burtchaell said. 
After Badin women have been given the opportunity to move to Lewis, women from other residence halls will be allowed to move. Procedure for such transfer will be handled by the office of Student Affairs and have not been announced. 
Badin Hall will be adapted to all single rooms to accommodate 100 graduate women next fall. Burtchaell estimated that Badin will be sufficient to house all advanced women students seeking on­campus housing. Burtchaell noted that Badin will accommodate about 45 more students than needed, based on figures of Lewis Hall residents who have returned to the hall over the past -three years. 
Room and board costs for living in Lewis will be higher than for Badin, Burtchaell noted. Exact differences in room charges will be determined by the Office of the Vice President for Business Affairs. 
Lottery for men 
The decision to increase the bed space for women may make unnecessary a lottery for men desiring to remain on campus. Brother Just Paczesny, vice­president for Student Affairs, stated that, though the decision on a lottery must be made by the Housing Office, it may not be used this year. 
"It is very possible that we may not have a lottery this year," Paczesny said. "It is possible because we would expect .a cer­tain number of male students to hve off campus. Since we are not taking a male hall this year, the possibility is there," Paczesny concluded. 

Burtchaell proposed reverting to a ~r~de point average system for determmmg students to move off-campus. 
"I think all the trouble over room picks came after we started the lottery," Burt­chaell said. 
Apartment plans unclear 
Plans for constructing a new graduate apartment complex are unclear. In ~heir statement issued yesterday the officers stated, "We are currently exploring the possible construction of an on~ampus residential complex for unmarned ad­vanced students. Our target date for occupancy is the fall of 1976," the report stated. 
No site for the apartments has been selected. Burtchaell proposed the com­plex be located immediately north of the University Village, an apartment complex for married graduate students, or east of Cartier Field. 
Funds for construction of the complex are not 1immediately available. The report of the Officers stated that no money exists in the Plant Fund. Government loans at low interest are not available. Burtchaell noted that endowment funds must first go toward academic priorities. 
Burtchaell noted that the University is 
seeking a source outside the university for 
the funding. 
"If a new source could turn up then that 
would be perfect," Burtchaell said, 
"especially one interested in education of 
graduate women." 
Once the apartments have been funded 
they would be self-financing. Funds for 
operation would be drawn from tenant 
rent. 
The facility would be open for both men 
and women advanced students. 
The completion of the new apartment 
complex could free Carroll Hall, a hall for 
men graduate students on the extreme 
west of campus, for undergraduate 
students in 1976. 
"With the eventual restoring to the 
undergraduates Carroll Hall may be about 
the right size to accommodate the men 
desiring to live on campus," Burtchaell 
said. 
Gordon praises plans 
Dr. Robert Gordon, vice president for 
advanced studies, praised the plans for a 
new grwduate housing compl~x. . . . 
"What I see coming out of this deciSIOn IS 
something I've been pushing for since I 
came in (1970)," Gordon said. 
Gordon noted that the problem of 
graduate housing on campus ~as not had 
as high a priority as housmg for un­
dergraduate students. 

(continued on page 3) 
UNIVERSITY PROVOST Fr. James T. Burtchaell announced 
Lewis Hall as the next undergrad women's dorm. In a. press ~0~~ terence yesterday Burtchaell stated Badin women Will mov Lewis. 

Campus residents react to change 
by Pat Hanifin 
Staff Reporter 
Immediate reaction to the planned exchange of populations between Lewis and Badin Halls from residents of the two halls was primarily negative though some of the women thought the proposal might work out. 
The announcement came with no warning to the women of Badin and the initial reaction there was "blood-curdling screams" ac­cording to senior Susan Nord­strom. 
One freshman who will move to Lewis next year commented that when the news came over the radio, residents were "screaming, crying and beating on the wall." 
Badin rector Helen Gallagher had no advance warning either. "My reaction is one of total sur­prise," she said. "The associate rector and myself were completely unaware of any suet. plan until it was announced this afternoon." 
Moving into doubles 
In addition to complaints against the total lack of warning many of the women disliked the idea of moving into doubles. Most of the Badin rooms are singles and the women are not used to living with a roommate. Some expressed fears that the rooms, being converted singles, would be too small. 
The location was another 
complaint. "Lewis is much further 
away from the center of things 
than Badin is," one woman 
commented. Another was worried 
about the security lighting around 
the hall. 

New Lewis Hall residents will have to pay more for their rooms than they did in Badin, according to Fr. James Burtchaell, University Provost and Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant to the provost. 
"I presume that the cost will rise," Jones said, "since Lewis is a new hall in the same class as Grace and Flanner while Badin is an older and less expensive dorm. I have heard that the difference between the towers and Badin is about $50 a semester," she said. 
Some residents of the hall were less distrubed, particularly after they had absorbed the initial impact of the news. 
Gallagher commented, "the solution appears to be just. The taking of another men's hall for women would be intolerable and unfair. I deeply regret the taking of Badin from a personal viewpoint but I see it as a feasible plan." 
Badin Hall President Ceil Prinster called the plan "on the whole a good decision although some people will have to make sacrifices." She argued that it was not as disruptive as many other plans might have been. 
"The hall has calmed down since the first news," she said. "Now people are almost in mourning, but they can think rationally and see that it doesn't mean the hall will split up." 
Nordstrom, who admitted that the decision will not directly affect her as a senior, said that she thought it was only fair that "woman are moved instead of men for a change." 
(continued on page 6) 

Co-ed Chronology 
LATE 1960's-Decision for coeducation made. FEB. 8, 1972-Badin and Walsh chosen as new women's dorms for 1972-1973 academic year. FEB. 28, 1972-Plans for merger with St. Mary's College finally scrapped. . , . SEPT. 2, 1972-365 women register m Notre Dame s first year of coeducation. , DEC. 17, 1972-Farley and Breen-Phillips halls chosen as women s residences on the North Quad for 1973-1974 academic year. Lyo~s designated for female occupancy during the 1974-1975 academic year. SEPT. 4, 1973-835 Women undergraduates register for 1973-1974 academic year. AUG. 27, 1974-1140 women undergraduates register, with Lyons hall now a women's residence. FEB. 3 1975-Lewis Hall chosen as a women's undergraduateresiden~e for the 1975-1976 academic year. Approximately 1,300 women undergraduates expected for 1975-1976. Badin Hall to be converted to a graduate women's facility. AUG. 1976-Further women's housing changes? number of women undergraduates? 

the observer Tuesday, February 4, 1975 
warld briefs 
WASIIINGTON UPI-Vice president Nelson A. Rockefeller said Monday the relationship between the CIA and the FBI was "part of the total picture" of his commission's investigation into charges that the intelligence agency spied illegally on Americans. 
But talking with reporters after the commission's fourth weekly meeting, Rockefeller would not go into detail about what he termed "the delicate balance" between the FBI and the CIA. 
ANNAPOLIS, MD UPI-Several midshipmen at the U.S. Naval Academy were detained by federal agents Monday for allegedly using marijuana at a house off academy grounds. 
The academy said "five to 10 midshipmen" were denied liberties after being taken into custody by agents of the Naval Investigative Service and U.S. marshals during a Sunday raid of a rented house in the Annapolis area. A " small quantity" of marijuana was seized, the academy said. 
NEW YOHK lfPI -The latest Harris Survey released Monday indicated that the public's estimate of how well President Ford is doing his job has fallen to a new low. 
The poll, taken between January 16 and 20 showed a 60 per cent negative response, to the question: "How would you rate the job President Ford is doing." Harris said 36 per cent of the replies were positive while four said they were not sure. 
an campus t:aday 
9 am-1:30pm-registration, free university, also on wed., student govt offices 
1pm-ladies of nd, card party, university club 
2:30-5 pm -registration, free university, student govt offices 
3:30pm computer course, lntro to fortran, 113 comp center 
4:30 pm -lecture, beta-alanine metabolism, melanization and adaptation in drosophila, by dr. jacobs, gal aud 
7:15pm -mass, charismatic mass, holy cross hall chapel 
7:30 pm -lecture, science of creative intelligence series, 248 madaleva 
7:30-9:30pm -dance instruction, faculty and friends, $2 
8& 10 pm-movie, american graffiti, $1, eng aud 
9 pm-tv, state of seige, channelll (chicago) 


Professor of philosophy is author of new translation 
Michael J. Loux, associate professor of philosophy at the University of Notre Dame, is the author of a new translation of Summa Logicae, considered by many scholars to be one of the most original and influential mPdieval texts in logic. The book, "Ockham 's Theory of Terms," is printed by the University of Notre DamP Press. 
Origmally written in Latin by William of Ockham, the most prestigious philosopher of the 14th ct>ntury. the new book provides a eompr{'hPnsive introduction to his key !hemPs of ontology and philosophy of language. Ockham is rPgardcd as the founder of !\:omina !ism. the school of thought that dl•nics that universals have any rt'ality apart from the in­dividual thmgs signified by the universal or general term. 
St. Mary's hosts 
lecture series 

Saint Mary's College will host the first presentation of a new Science of Creative Intelligence lecture series to be held in the Notre Dame community. 
Law student Robert Carsello will give the first presentation Tuesday night in Madeleva Hall at 7:30. The lecture is being presented by the Student's International Meditation Society for the purpose of informing the Notre Dame community about this rapidly developing field. 
Hundreds of students have taken the course in Transcendental Meditation in the three years the oru,anization has been represented 
campus. 

Preceding the translation by Loux are two essays. One deals with Ockham 's ontology while the Sl'cond focuses on his theory of supposition. While introductory, they incorporate a controversial inh;rpretationof Ockham which is intended to suggest a continuity between his philosophy and the work of contemporary analytic philosophers. 
An associate professor of philosophy at Notre Dame since 1968, Loux was the 1974 recipient of the Father Charles E. Sheedy faculty award for excellence in Arts and Letters teaching. He is tf1e author of "Universals and Particulars" and of several scholarly articles in philosophy journals. 


Production Meeting All nite editors, asst. nite editors, and layout staff­
~ 
Newcomers welcomed rmeting in O~erver office 7p•m. -rJ.l0 m·ght""""'........ . 
Kissinger unveils strategy 
Energy program proposed 
By STEWART HENSLEY 
UPI Diplomartic Reporter 
WASHINGTON (UPI) Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger proposed a stringent energy austerity and develop­ment program for oil consum­ing nations Monday that he said could break the oil producers' pricing cartel within two years. 
Unveiling the strategy the United States will formally propose to fellow oil importing nations in Paris Wednesday, Kissinger told a National Press Club luncheon the key to succes:; is keeping the price of oil high within individual consuming nations by taxes, import quotas or tariffs. 
"In order to bring about adequate investment in the developmPnt of conventional nuclear and fossil energy sources, the major oil import­ing nations should agree that they will not allow imported oil to be sold domestically at prices which would make these new sources non-competitive," Kissinger said. 
HP said that success in stringently damping oil demand and consumption while new fuels are phased in would ·'exert powerful pressures on the inflated price" now levied by the Organization of Pe­troleum Exporting Countries 
<OPI<Xl. 

"No cartel is so insulated from economic conditions that its price structure is invulnera­ble to a transformation of the market." Kissinger said. 
lie reported that because of reduced world oil demand, OPEC nations already have cut production 9 million barrels a day -one-fourth of capacity ­in order to maintain the present price. and some producers are "shaving prices." 
If the trend can be boosted by eooperative consumer action, Kissinger said, "by 1977 some oil producers will have a payments deficit" and "compe­ti lion between them for the available market will intensify. The cartel's power to impose 
ERRATUM 
In yesterday's article con­cerning the North Quad Party, Sue Swiatek was erroneously quoted as being Farley Hall's president. 
Donna Crowley is the current president. and has been quoted as such in previous articles about this event. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semet~ter except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
an embargo and to use the price as a weapon will be greatly diminished." 
At that point, he said, consumer nations will be m a position to negotiate long-term oil supply agreements with the producers at prices below the inflated levels of today -and the producers will be glad to have them. 
Kissinger said the U.S. proposals were flexible and he anticipated cooperation among the 16 nations of the newly formed International Energy Agency ! lEA) consumer coop­Prative when it meets. 
But it appeared far from eertain that western industrial nations, already suffering from inflation and recession, would be willing to undergo that degree of economic austerity. 
Kissinger said the other half of the U.S. plan, development of alternative energy sources, will require equal concentration and cooperation. 
The United States intends to generate $500 billion for capital investment in energy sources over the next decade, and the federal government will by itself invest $10 billion in a research program rivaling the Manhattan Project which deve­loped the atomic bomb, he said. 
It also will propose cre:!tion of lEA machinery for the international exchange of ener­gy technology. 

In the MINI-MALL at TOWN & COUNTRY Shopping Center 
ALL SKI CLOTHING 




25% OFF 
SPECIAL PACKAGES AVAILABLE 
Tuesday, February 4, 1975 
the observer 

Coming March 2 
Tennessee Williams opens Literary Festival 

by Brian M. Clancy brave and very difficult play ... an ad­Tandy. Staff Reporter venture in drama." 
In 1969 Williams was awarded the Gold Medal for Literature by theA list of Williams; other important

Tennessee Williams, considered by American Academy of Arts and Letters 
works includes Summer and Smoke,
many to be the greatest living and the National Institute of Arts and
Thl" Rose Tattoo, Orpheus Descending, 
playwright in the English language, Letters.
Sweet Bird of Youth, and Suddenly Last will open the 1975 Sophomore Literary Summer. Eight Mortal Ladies
Festival with an appearance in The permanence of Williams' works
Possessed, a book of his short stories, 
Washington Hall Sunday evening, is evidenced by the numerous revivals
will be released by New Directions this of his work. Streetcar Named DesireMarch 2. 
spring. 
and Cat on a Hot Tin Roof have been re­

Since winning the New York Drama produced in New York, Washington and Critics Circle Award for The Glass Williams has also played a major role London, and particularly flattering was Mt>nagerie in 1945, Williams has been in American cinema. Many of today's a production of Cat at the Shakespeare 
one of the most illustrious and imitated most celebrated actors and actresses playwrights in the American and gained their first fame from Wiliams' Festival in Stratford, Connecticut.
English theatre. He received the plays. Marlon Brando's performance 
Another important revival of Williams'

Pulitzer Prize in 1948 for Streetcar as Stanley Kowalski in Streetcar made 
work was the much heralded television 

Named Desire and again in 1955 for Cat an immediate impact. Elizabeth 
prod~ction of The Glass Mena_gerie,

on a Hot Tin Roof. Both of these plays Taylor, primarily known as beautiful 
starrmg Kathryn Hepburn and Michael 

also won the Drama Critics Award, as former child-actress in the early 1950's 
Moriarty.

did Night of the Iguana in 1962. attained a new identity and a new career as Maggie the Cat in Cat on a Notre Dame sophomores have triEd 
Out Cry, one of his most recent plays, Hot Tin Roof. Others whose careers to get Williams to speak at the festival has been described by Clive Barnes of vaulted after appearing in a Williams' since its beginning in 1968. This year's the New York Times, as "a moving play include Elizabeth Ashley, Richard success is due to the efforts of Professor 
play about the convolution of madness Burton, Ben Gazzara, Burl Ives, Karl Ken Moore of the Department of and the fantasies of reality ... a very Malden, Paul Newman and Jessica Sociology and Anthropology. 
]FK's assassination finally exposed by film 
By ROBERT MACKAy evidence which indicated the The film also shows two men third shot hit then Gov. John Oswald's supposed position in Central Intelligence Agency Groden said were shooting at Connally of Texas in the the window of the Texas Bank 
CHICAGO WPil -Robert was involved in the Kennedy Kennedy. One was behind a shoulder. Depository would have hit Groden. a New York photogra-assassination. pedestal on a grassy knoll in The fourth, shot from behind, Kennedy at a different angle pher and optical specialist, Groden showed a film at a front of the motorcade. The he said, hit Kennedy in the than any of the wounds he displayed Monday a film news conference here which he other man is also in front of the head and then the fifth hit received. version of the John F. Kennedy said was a blown-up version of motorcade, under a low tree, Kennedy in the front of the Gregory said more evidence assassination which he said the Abraham Zapruder film, and his head is visible on the head and lifted him backwards. will be released in the next proves that Lee Harvey Oswald the only film of the actual film. Groden said he is "The shot from behind that three or four weeks on the "had nothing to do with the assassination. He said the film carrying a rifle, but it is hard hit him in the head and then assassination. assassination." was the property of Time Inc. to distinguish the "rifle" from the one from the front were "We are going to announce 
"As many as four, possibly but refused to say how the film the tree branches. Both are fired in less than one-eighteenth totally the lies perpetrated on five" persons were shooting at was obtained. blurred in the film. of a second," Groden said. the American people and the 
the president. Groden said. Gregory, in a statement, said Gregory said he, Groden and 
Kennedy was killed in a the film was suppressed for 11 Shoenman will leave for Wash­motorcade in Dallas, Texas, on years because "it was limited ington Saturday to take the film Nov. 22, 1963. Oswald was io excerpts and still photo-to the Rockefeller Commission arrested for the assassination graphs that failed to show the investigating the CIA. and was himself killed in the important points of the film and Groden said at least six Dallas police headquarters by a its implications." bullets were fired at Kennedy, bystander, Jack Ruby. The film, enlarged and shown not three as the Warren 
Dick Gregory, a political in slow motion, showed Presi-Commission investigating the · activist. said the film "will dent Kennedy being hit in the assassination had concluded. change the destiny and fate of head. Groden said the film The first shot missed the the world and I know save shows the force of the bullet President and hit a street curb, (Sl·n. l Ted Kennedy's life." pushing Kennedy back and to he said, and was later removed 
Last week Gregory and Ralph his left, indicating he was shot by the FBI. He said the second Schoenman. an assistant profes-from the front and not from the shot was fired from behind and sor of philosophy, said they had back as was originally thought. hit Kennedy in the back and the 
:;:~:~~:n~:~:~x:;~~:;;;:::~~~~:,:n,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:::::::,:,:;:,:,:::::::::::::::::::::,:,:,:,:,:,:;:,:,:;:,:,:,::~,:~~~~~:~~~::,:,::~;,:~~~;t:~~;:::~~~~~~:::~~~~,:,::::. 

Lewl•S Hall 
and kitchen facilities on each floor. 
Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant to the 
provost, said that, although the Lewis"Graduate housing on this campus has 
rooms will be converted from singles tobeen a hand-me-down. Residentiality is doubles, they are large enough for twonot as essential a priority for graduate students.
students," Gordon explained. 

"One of the things we are doing is to No decision after 1976 double the space of Lewis Hall," Jones 
said. "The rooms are beautiful and 
Burtchaell explained that the University spacious."
has not set any admission quotas for Paczesny concurred that the Lewis 
women after 1976. "We have purposely rooms are comfortable especially com­
avoided planning enrollment ratios," he pared with male dorms. 
said. "It's comfortable for two; it's too large
The University has not set these ratios for one," he said. "They are certainlybecause of its inexperience with co­larger than some of the doubles the guys
education, uncertainty about the effect of have to live in." 
the economy on admissions, and concern Lewis Hall was constructed in 1965 
over the future of Notre Dame's relation through a $1 million grant from the Frank 
with St. Mary's, Burtchaell said. J. Lewis Foundation. The hall is named 
"We literally have not sat down to · after Lewis, a Chicago businessman and 
discuss women's enrollment after 1976," philanthropist.
Burtchaell said. "Let's not make plans Burtchaell said that the Lewis Foun­
when we might have to undo those plans," dation had agreed to change the status of 
he explained. the hall to allow undergraduate women 
According to Burtchaell, no decision on residents. 
women's admissions after 1976 will be "Their reaction was positive," Burt­
made until next year. chaell said. Although the University was 
Lewis facilities under no legal obligation to consult the 
Lewis family, "we thought it was the 
Students moving from Badin to Lewis proper move to make. There was nothing 
will have better facilities, 
to legally binding," Burtchaell said. 
Rutherford to be 

managing edi 
Al Rutherford, a junior finance major from Madison, New Jersey, has been named the new managing editor for the observer. replaces Marlene Zloza, retired at the end of last semester. 
Rutherford has worked for the 
Observer for the last two and a half 
years as a reporter, night editor 
and special projects editor. 


He said a bullet fired from world," Gregory said. 
N 0 W 


BLITZ 
AND LISTEN 



~Sfru/a~
NO COVER CHARGE TUES.WED-THURS 
on U.S. 31 bttween lliles. So. Bend-frM Parkin&-683-4350. 
It was t\16 \<.in' · 6 o' (na · · 
\t(t\ d cruistn. 
out an d . oinQ s\63. V 9 nd plavtn 
~t cool. I\ was 
t\16 ti(t\6 ol your \il6. tne ti(t\6 ol 
A(n6rican Gralliti 

February 4 and '5 
Three shows each night: 6, 8, 10 

Engineering Auditorium 
Admission one dollar, Cinema 75 patrons free 
_:::4':____t:....:h~e'---------"o~b=-=s'--'e=-=--r-'-v--=e'-'r'------T-'-u=esdav. Februarv 4, 1975 


0-C HousingGuide now readyfordistribution 
by Marv Pat Tarpey 
Staff Reporter 
The Off-Campus Housing Guide has been completed and is now available for distribution, ac­cording to Fr. Thomas Tallarida, director of off-campus housing. 
The purpose of the guide, Tallarida said, is "to make the students aware of the Indiana statutes regarding tenants so they won't make mistakes in renting." The guide was compiled through the efforts of Tallarida, Ms. 

Maureen Power of the Notre Dame Legal Aid Society and Tom Wilson, also of the off-campus housing office. 
Tallarida said the booklet deals basically with the landlord-tenant relations as they apply to the Notre Dame student. It also relates the Jaws in a general language which can be understood by students interested in seeking off-campus housing. 
The guide covers topics such as inspector grading, subletting! 
renting, msurance policies and verbal agreements. It also examines landlord rights, noise violation, evictions and the University Lease. 
Tallarida stated, that as it stands, "the law concerning housing favors the lessor to the lessee." Many of the present laws apply to a more rural situation, he added. 
Regarding inspector grading, the off-campus office keeps a listing of inspected housing as a further service to the students. They have an established code to follow in evaluating the house or apartment. It is a new system devised to minimize the problems students often come across in renting a house, Tallarida said. Houses have been inspected by Bob Morgenthaler, assistant rector of Flanner Hall. According to Tallarida, all housing in the area has been inspected except for rooms contained in private dwellings. This listing is available standard lease drawn up by the University to meet the needs of the student," Tallarida said. It is set up according to the rights of the renter, proprietor and the laws of Indiana. 

The Off-Campus Housing Guide can be obtained at the Housing Office in the Administration Building. The Office plans to work through the Hall Presidents Council to make available to each dorm a copy of the guide and the University Lease. 
I.Z. Sclrtffer leaves after 12 years 
•

Dean 0 I LawSCh001reslgns 
Dr. Thomas L. Shaffer, dean of the University of Notre Dame Law School for the past four years, will resign this summer and return to teaching following a year's sabbatical. .. 
A specialist in estate planning, Shaffer JOined the Notre Dame faculty in 1963 following two years as a member of the Indianapolis law firm of Barnes, Hickam. Pantzer & Boyd. He holds a B.S. from the 
DR. SHAFFER will resign soon to take sabbatical and 1each at the University of Virginia. 
College of St. Joseph in Albuquerque, M.M., and was graduated cum laude from the Notre Dame Law School in 1961. He was promoted to full professor three y~ars after joining the law faculty and served as associate dean in 1969-70. 
In announcing Shaffer's decision, University President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh commented, "Dean Shaffer provided crucial leadership dur!ng a period in which the Law School was successful m at­tracting financial support for facilities improvement,
faculty devilopment and scholarships. We are par­
ticularly grateful for the emphasis he gav~ the mor~l tradition historically imbedded m the practice of law m this country and in the teaching of law at this Catholic University." . 
In his tenure as the head of the Law School, which has 400 students and 20 full-time faculty, Shaffer supervised a $1.6 million expansion and renovation which included a sorely needed improvement of the Jaw library. Under his direction the curriculum beyond the first year became elective and a number of clinical options became available. To a year-~broad program in London, he added summer terms m that city, Tokyo and at Notre Dame's main campus: In the face of enormous admissions pressure, he raised en­trance criteria while also attracting more women and members of minority groups to the study of law at Notre Dame. 
The 40-year'1lld educator will be on leave during the 
1975-76 academic year to write and to teach part-time 
as a visiting professor of law at the University of r Virginia. Among his most recent books have been "Death, Property and Lawyers," published in 1970, and "A Handbook for Planning and Drafting Wills and Trusts," published in 1972. As dean, he continued to teach and his off-campus lectures often stressed a humanistic approach to the profession of law, noting that private practice basically involves "helping troubled people in one'1ln'1lne situations." 
Shaffer is the seventh dean of Notre Dame's Law School, which is the oldest law school under Catholic auspices in the nation. 
for viewing at the Housing Office. 
Information regarding rent, noise violations and evictions, is usually found as clauses in the lease. The student should be cs·,~grne.fnugl inf atheearseea,dainngd .atn.ds tmh~
11
0 1 11 portant to keep in mind that verbal agreements have no force in law, Tallarida said. 
"All problems that have arisen are usually with the students looking for cheap housing and then running into problems," Tallarida observed. 
One method in aiding students is the University Lease which is described in the guide. It is a 
However, Tallarida explained "These aren't to be passed out at random like the Scholastic Magazine." Prospective renters should come to the housing office 
and specify their need for the 
guide at which time assistance 
will be given.

On the topic of general tenant-landlord relations Tallarida noted when it comes to housing a lot of things· have to change. The Off­
Campus Housing Office has acted on complaints of students against certain landlords and has kept good relations with others whoare considered an asset to the students." he said. 
--.::.:.:==::.:.._....:..:..::...-:::=~----­

TONIGHT!!! 
Meeting for all the freshmen who wish to join the Student Managers Organization 
ACC AUDITORILM 7 00 p M


:::::::::::=======::====·==·==========: 
Ford predicts slow economic recovery to present problems 
By Hl('JIAHD JlliGIIES 't1Pl Business Writer 
President Ford's prediction Monday of an 8 per cent unemployment rate for the next two years and even higher prices this year indicates a slower economic recovery than originally anticipated. 
In another development, sharply lower auto industry t•arnings were signaled by the $5.6 million loss by American 1\lotors in the last three months of 1974. 
The President's bleak outlook for the economy indicates administration economists now 1Jl•lieve the economy, after bottoming out of the recession later this year, will not make a sharp recovery but rather a slow one. 
In his budget message, Ford said unemployment will aver­age !l per cent this year and next. This would mean some 7.5 million persons will be out of work. 
l<'ord also said the nation's Gross National Product, the government's measurement of Pconom ic growth, would drop 
3.3 per cent this year, making two straight years of decline and creating the longest and most severe economic slump since the Great Depression. The GNP fell 2.2 per cent in 1974. 
Ford said consumer prices are expected to climb 11.3 per cent this year and 7.8 per cent ill 1976. Previously, administra­tion spokesmen said the infla­
tion rate would slow to 7 or 8

.. 
per cent this year. 
A sharp plunge in the value of the U.S. dollar on European money markets followed the report that Ford's proposed budget deficit for the fiscal On Wall Street, the momen­year would reach a peacetime tum that produced record high of $52 million. trading and record price gains 

"The Federal Heserve togeth­last week carried over into er with other central banks is Monday on the New York Stock intervening and will intervene Exchange. as needed to maintain orderly The Dow Jones industrial foreign exchange markets," was ahead 4.15 at said Fed Chairman Arther three hours of brisk Burns. 
Opportunities exist at Baltimore Aircoil for engineers interested in design, research and development, manufacturing, and marketing. A constant search for new and innovative ideas and the application of Baltimore Aircoil products across a broad range of market areas creates a need for many types of engineering knowledge and experience. 
A personnel representative from Baltimore Aircoil will be here for interviewing on Thursday, Feb. 20th 
Don't miss this opportunity! 
Contact your employment counselor for exact time. 
... 
5

Tuesday, February 4, 1975 the observer 
.
.
.
.
.
.
Clemency .. fr. bill taaheY ..
One can be pleased that President Ford's clemency program has been extended for one month, and deeply appreciative of the efforts of people like Fr. Hesburgh to help those wh~ have ap~lied.' an.d still feel conscience-bound to point out the ser1ous defiCiencies m the policy. 
It should not be seen as takinll: anything away from the good that has been done to cite the plain fact that Ford's earned re~ntry program is inadequate. He could continue to extend the deadline every month for a year and his plan would still not accomplish what he said he wanteci-"to bind up the nation's wounds." 
The very nature of the President's program rules out general reconciliation, and results in continued estrangement among many in American society, most especially the young. 
First of all, most of those covered by the policy consider it punitive. It is difficult for a young man who acted in conscience. to return to a society which sees him as an outcast who must establish his allegiance by taking an oath or performing up to two years of alternative service. As one exile put it: "I'm supposed to prove my allegiance to the United States, as if ref~sing to fight in an. un­constitutional war is unpatriotic!" One Ch1cago mother explamed .
.
why her son refused to crawl back under Ford's punitive plan: "My 

·••·•••····••····•··················•··••••·••··•····•••••·•··••••·•····•••••••••••····••·••••·•••• 
son never rejected his allegiance to this country -just the war. I don't understand why the government says that the people are not 
montezuma!Is reventae 
behind a complete amnesty. I think they're just counting the VFW votes. I've talked with mothers who lost sons, and they have no desire to penalize living sons because theirs died." 
Secondly, and most importantly, Ford's program operates under 

Mardi Gras
rules that limit severely the number of eligible participants. For example, of the more than 500,000 Americans who received less • than honorable discharges during the Vietnam War era, only 
ray ram1rez 
100,000 were declared eligible to apply to the President's Clemency 
Review Board. Remember from freshman days the inch, And what of the rnad-ice-dasn, wherein 
What are we supposed to do'? Mr. Ford will have to pardon us if things about Notre Dame that seemed very the heaviest football player on the varsity we refrain from raising a big cheer for his program and fail to gush mysterious? What did the inside of a girl's would take off from one shore of frozen St. a lot over his magnanimous one-month extension. We may find it dorm look like'? 'What is on the fourteenth Mary's lake and run like the dickens <Emily tough to overlook the gap between this absolution and the '?ore (or for that matter, the third) floor of the or Charles) to the other side? Onlookers generous one extended Mr. Nixon. He will have to forgive us If we library'? And most intriguing of all, why betted heavily as to whether or not he ould refuse to forget the thousands of young men who will not be reached Stepan Center? Slowly these mysteries have a J make it across the ice in Jess than ten by his program, and if we feel reluct~nt t~ joi~ those many been revealed: the inside of a girl's dorm seconds, b) make it across the ice, and c) Americans who now believe the amnesty Issue IS bemg adequately vaguely resembles a steel mill, but is a bit beat the person who was running this 
taken care of. noisier; the third floor of the library is the contest into a bloody pulp if he did make it. 
On the contrary, many of us will feel obligated to echo the sen-regional location of the IRA branch office, This was discontinued because over the tirnents of Francis Mugavero, the courageous bishop of Brooklyn, and the fourteenth floor houses a heated years we lost an inordinate number of who in a Pastoral Letter last week to the six million people of his pool. That leaves us Stepan Center, which linemen and Mardi Gras officials. dioc~se wrote: "Christians and all others deeply concerned with we now know was made for Mardi Gras. I Without a doubt the most ambitious game the divi~ions present in our society must address the inadequacies suppose you think Mardi Gras is really in the early days of Mardi Gras was the one in the President's re~ntry policy. If such distrust remains among something else this year, what with the called "on or off". In this game, betting was 
so many young people in need of reconciliation and if t~e vast bands, the pseudo-houses-of-ill-repute and extremely high as students invested tuition majority of those in need are not covered by t~e present policy • _can the crowds just aching to lose their money, and room and board money on the chance we say that the nation's wounds are in fact bemg bound up'? In hght but few of you realize that Mardi Gras has that they would stay on campus. Betting of the failure of the President's program, I believe that only a non-shrunk considerably over the years. The went on throughout the first semester and punitive amnesty which reaches out to all those in need of recon-festivities were not limited to Stepan, but was climaxed by the spin of "the wheel of ciliation can be truly effective. Is it not possible for us not to were held all over the campus. fortune" at Mardi Gras by the head of summon up that largeness of heart which will enable us to forget At one time the Rockne Memorial pool campus housing. The students anxiously our differences and spare ourselves the pain of continued was the scene of the hotly-eontested, and watched the wheel as number after number division?" now legendary, duck races. Who can forget of those who had to leave the campus carne 
It is also significant that the president of the Conference of Major those screaming crowds cheering_ on their up. Although it was rather exciting, some Superiors of Men has just said the same thing, in calling on web-footed favorite? As you may or may not viewed it as an almost barbaric practice Congress to enact legislation creating unc~ndi~ional arnnes_ty· recall, these contests were discontinued and finally had it removed when it was Father Joseph Francis, who heads the orgamzatlon representmg when one of the ducks, a highly-touted learned that U· ~ 1arne was fixed--not only all the major religious orders of men, pointed out the inadequacies mallard, threw a race by, literally, taking a did ties go to the dealer, but preference went ... of Ford's plan, and said that "there is no more honorable way of dive. Justice was meted out as the duck to the girls. With such lop-sided odds reverencing those who served in Vietnam than by·striving to build surfaced moments later underneath one of working against you it's no wonder that the back into the American system the ideals they fought and suffered the straggling competitors. The lousy cheat university decided to remove the game from and died for." struggled for air, but all he got was down in Mardi Gras and show it for the farce it was. 
Rep. Abzug m-N.Y.) has introduced legislation for unconditio~al the mouth. They made it official POlicv. a_rnnesty in_ the !fo~se, and Sen. Philip Hart <D-Mich.) is prep~rmg Another discontinued favorite at Mardi For those of you who wrote in asking if similar legislation m ~he Senate. They co~ld use our support and Gras were the potato-sack races. Though sesquipedalianist magniloquence is con-so could those thousands of young men still separated from home repeatedly threatened with whips and cornrnitant with circumbendiburn, all I can 
..a.~~ .~?~~.d. ~~.e.s; ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••; ••••••••••• Jli,t;S~l~·.W~~~ ~NP. ~~~~~.'f!l.ll]~p;~ ~.ll~A~ !1!1••••••zt~Y. ts..•'J~L'1t;<;t;~~l!~i!:Y ~ ••••••••••••••••••• 
lefl in the lurch Graduate Student Union ?hugh harman 
After spending last semester asking why housed in Flanner tower, a seemingly fair Palmer's plans include. One thing is sure, Dome's prerogatives ·Jf power.
grad students are so roundly ignored by the proposition. Unfortunately, there is also a however, that it is completely ladicrous for Fortunately, some grads are concerned Administration and the other Powers That suggestion abroad that Lewis Hall be the president of the Graduate Student Union over this loss of political voice, beingBe, it is hair-pullingly frustrating to find the transformed into an undergraduate to live in Chicago. How anyone could hope especially stirred by what seems to be the graduate students are ignored even by the women's hall, ousting the present oc­to accomplish anything commuting from imminent loss of Lewis Hall to the un­Graduate Student Union. That is, except at cupants. Of course, these present occupants Chicago two, three, or four days a week is a dergraduates. Efforts are currently being the beginning of the semester when the dues themselves have not been questioned about mystery. 
made by the Vice-President of the 
are tacked on the tuition. the latter proposition and probably won't be Perhaps even more ludicrous is the fact organization and the representative of the 
There is no doubt that a definite need for until after a decision has been reached, a that the graduate students would allow this English Department to get in touch with the some sort of Graduate Student Union exists. decision that could very well run toward silly arrangement to exist,. Unfortunately, elusive Mrs. Palmer, efforts made Grads are typically a very diverse body, making the Lewis Hall proposal a reality. A grad students are too often absorbed in their especially urgent due to the fact that all both in background and areas of study, Graduate Student Union could make grad own private books and worlds, submi!ting Grad Student Organization records have
opinion felt in matters of this sort, but it has
much more diverse than the undergrads. passively to all outside forces. Most ap­apparently left with her for Chicago. Fr. 
Indeed, the only thing most gra~s have in so far remained deathly silent. parently have better things to do than to Austgen unfortunately claims to have no -~ommon is the label. Thus, even m a purely By far and away the greatest blame for attempt to improve (or preserve) graduate knowledge of Mrs. Palmer's current ad­social sphere, a living and breathing GSU this GSU inaction <to put it mildly) must be housing, or better graduate holdings in the 
dress nor to have any documents with any
could do a great deal. Social events (i.e. placed squarely on the Chicago doorstep of Memorial Library, or to make any sort of bearing on the GSU. parties) could be organizedone particularly the Graduate Student Union president, Ann effort to improve graduate life in general In an attempt to put the Grad StudentDarin Palmer.
good idea would be the publishing of a here at Notre Dame. And apparently the Union back on its feet and reach some sort
Mrs. Palmer would no doubt make an
graduate student directory ~espe~ially president of the GSU feels sim.ilarly. of consensus concerning the possible loss of considering the fact that the mclus10n of excellent president of the Graduate Student This worse than bad situation is un­a graduate dorm, a meeting of all interested 
grads in the regular directory appears to be Union if it were not for one small mark fortunately compounded by the un­students has been arranged for Thursday, a mostly hit or miss proposition). against her: she lives in Chicago. In the willingness of Fr. Austgen, rector of February 6th in O'Shaughnessy 
Hall. 

The true calling of a GSU, however, would middle of last semester, Ann, a second year Brownson Hall and supposed advisor of the 
Hopefully, the first order of business at this 
be in a more political sphere primarily as a MBA student, took two weeks off from Grad Student Union, to give aid of any sort meeting will be the acceptance of the 
type of bridge between the Administration school (and the GSU ) to get married. After to those unwilling to see a resignation of Ann Darin Palmer, the 
and the grads. Politically the grads are this marriage, she moved out from Lewis dissolution of the GSU. Instead of helping Graduate Student Union president.forgotten students. During the infamous Hall and set up residence with her husband these grads in their attempt to revitalize the 
..
calendar dispute of last year no one thought in Chicago, commuting back and forth by dormant organization, he has presented a to ask the graduate students how they felt plane between the Windy City and Notre know-nothing -'I can't help you' front. 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This column was
about the matter. Currently a situation is Dame in order to finish the rest ot the Apparently student power and 
received before yesterday's announcementbrewing concerning the placement of the 500 semester. organizations are, to him as well as to too on the future of Lewis Hall. 
women in the new freshman class. Some As far as the current semester goes, no many other Notre Dame Administrators, students would like to see the newcomers one is quite sure what the distant Mrs. unwelcome interferences with the Golden 

.. 
6 

the observer Tuesday, February 4, 1975 
More career-conscious freshman 
Dr. Hofman sees chang 
by Kathy Mills Staff Ht"porter 
"The freshmen are more career ·conscious now than in recent years due to the present t>conomic situation," Dr. Emil Hofman, dean of the Freshman YPar of Studies, stated yesterday. 
"This is not a matter of our freshmen being peculiar, however." Hofman offered statistics from articles in the Jan. 27 issue of Thf' Chronicle of Higher Education and the October issue of ('hangf' which indicated that college students are more career­orientated now than in the past. 
Hofman cited pre-law, pre-med, and business as being most at­tractive to the freshmen. He noted a sharp increase in the number of freshmen enrolled in engineering, as opposed to the past few years. 
A university's curriculum should enable a student who has a clear­cut. attainable goal to pursue that end. but that it should not prevent a student from being generally educated, Hofman stated. 

"At many universities, a student has a definite major in a certain college. If he decides to change that major, he must transfer to another college or department. This often involves administrative difficulties. Transfers here are made more easity, although not casually," he con tined. 
According to Hofman, ap­proximately 50 per cent of the students at Notre Dame change their intent from the day of their acceptance to the end of the sophomore year. Change of intents among the freshmen last semester fell into the same pattern. 
Many students changed from Arts and Letters intent into Engineering, Business, and pre­med, the career-oriented fields. "This was a change from last year," Hofman pointed out. 
Hofman acknowledged that the freshmen are "very grade­conscious, as are most students at Notre Dame." The average grade point for freshman last semester was 2.837. Hofman termed that average "pretty darn good," a slight improvement over last year. 
Only three freshmen were on the dismissal list from last semester, and only about 60 were on the academic probation list. Hofman listed the reasons for this "fan­tastic performance" as being the selectivity by the Admissions Office in choosing Notre Dame students, the effort on the part of the students, the fine teaching situation at Notre Dame, and the Freshman Tutoring Program. 
"I have no objection to being grade-conscious," Hofman said, "I am, however, disappointed when the student looks to the grade as his end object. A grade is only good as a reflection of a student's experience." 
Hofman stressed the necessity for freshmen to learn how to balance their time between studies and extra-curricular activities, saying that they should take "effective breaks from studying. Last semester, the freshmen were better than average in extra­curricular activities. I am 
:::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::~: 
(continued from page 1) 


Campus reactions 
Lewis rf'sidents not consulted 
The immediate reaction in Lewis Hall was less intense due to ; warning provided a week ago by rumors leaking from the office of student c.ffairs. However some students were angry that they were not consul.ted about the rr.atter. 
One graduate woman said she had heard rumors since the middle of last week. "When I asked the rector about it she told me that it was at least a strong possibility but that there was nothing we could do about it at that point," she said. "It is a great example of how little student opinions count around here." 
Law student Chaya Abrams said that "we had heard about the move and assumed that it would happen because of the financial gain to the University from converting singles into doubles." 
Lewis women opposed the move on several grounds. Some are

.. worried about moving into older and smaller rooms, although all Badin rooms will be converted to singles. "Graduate women are here primarily to study and we need decent living and studying facilities," one Lewis resident said. Several women complained :~hn11t the cooking facilities in Badin Each floor of Lewis has a kitchen and most students do their own cooking to save money. Badin has only one small kitchen in the basement. Sr. John Miriam commented on this saying that there were plans to convert some of the unused rooms in Badin into kitchenettes so that graduate women would not be forced to purchase meal tit>lra•~ 
Some residents of Lewis also feared a loss of community spirit in the more cramped surround­sings of Badin. "I am the only woman in a department that has 45 men," one resident commented, "and I really appreciate having a community of women to return to at the end of the day." 

Doubts about new apartments 
Several women expressed great doubt that the promised new graduate housing complex would ever materialize even after Badin returns to undergraduate oc­cupancy in 1976. Badin was seen as a sort of "half-way house" to off­campus living. 
One student opposed to the move predicted that many Lewis women would move off-campus rather than accept Badin housing. "Then the administration will say, 'See, graduates don't want on-campus housing,' and shove us off en­tirely." 
Other students were willing to admit that the plan was the best solution to a bad situation although they too did not want to move and resented the lack of consultation. Chaya Abrams argued that "if the University expects to get good graduate students from around the country they will have to provide some on-campus ho•tshg." 
Two of the residents interviewed commented that the women were considering some sort of protest action in the wake of the an­nouncement. Letters of protest to administrators were discussed, but nothing had been decided. 
The rector of Lewis, Sr. Maria Garlock was unavailable for comment. 
McLaughlin approves decision 
Student Body President Pat McLaughlin was generally pleased with the plan. "In our discussions with the administration we always maintained that the key factors in a solution must be that no more men's dorms be taken and that no undergrad women beforced off­campus. Today's decision meets these standards." 
McLaughlin predicted that 
everyone who wishes to live on­
campus next year will be able to do 
so under the new plan. 

He said that his discussions with 
University officials had concerned 
only undergraduate housing. "We 
felt that itwas the Graduate 
Student Union that had to 
represent the graduates." 

Jones explained that the lack of warning to both halls had been due to the fact that "we had to get the agreement of all the Lewis family who funded the hall to switch it to undergraduate housing. We did not hear from the last one until half a hour bef(lre the press conference began," she said. 
She said that she had tried to 
contact Gallagher before the 
conference but was unable to reach 
her by phone. 

Badin option decided after TuPsday 
·'The decision to include Badin in the plan was not made within the group working on it until after last Tuesday,'' Jones contended. "We had let the rector of Lewis know that the hall was under con­sideration but even she was not told of the final decision until the afternoon of the conference." 
Commenting on the leak that Lewis might be given to un­dergraduates Jones admitted that it probably blunted the initial shock of the announcement. 
"There are some times when leaks can serve a valuable purpose and perhaps it would have helped if the girls in Badin had gotten some sort of previous warning." 
Bro. Just Paczesny commented on the reactions of two groups to the idea of moving, saying "We have such loyalty to the halls that if we had to house people in tents they would fight leaving the tents." 

McGEORGE SCHOOL CF LAW 
UNIVERSITY OF THE PACIFIC 
SACRAMENTO CAMPUS 
April 15, 1975 is application deadline for first-year students seeking juris doctor degree in 3-year Day or 4-year Evening 
1 

program beginning in September 1975. 
PRE-lAW DISCUSSION FOR PROSPECTIVE lAW STUDENTS 
oAn: Wed., Feb. 5 TIME: 2:00P.M. to 4:30P.M. .. 
Sign-ups outside
FOR APPOINTMENT OR FURTHER INFORMATION 

Dean Waddick's Office 
HOFMAN:  FRESHMEN  are  more  career-conscious  in  recent  
years due to the economi c conditions.  
disappointed  that  some  and with such spirit.  it is very  

organizations do not accept or inspiring." He commended the welcome freshmen." University chaplain, campus 
Hofman also pointed that most ministry, the hall rectors, and the freshmen voluntarily attend Mass Theology Department for "having and are very devoted. "It is very brought about one of the most heartening to see how the students important characteristics of the participate with great numbers campus-the role of liturgy." 
. ATTENTION ALL GRAD. STUDENTS 


EMERGENCY MEETING 
MEM. LIB. AUD. THURS. FEB. 6 

12:15 P.M. 


... who? me? what does that mean? it's 1975 ... i'm a student here, wondering what i'm going to do with my life ... 
FRI. THROUGH SUN. <FEB. 7-9) WILL BE A TIME WHEN YOU CAN COME TOGETHER WITH OTHERS TO SHARE THESE QUESTIONS. AT OLD COLLEGE. SIGN UP AT CAMPUS MIN. OFFICE (103 LIB. 

Tuesday, February 4, 1975 
the observer 
7 


Forecasts bleakest 
Ford hints at record deficit 
By MIKE FEINSILBER 
WASHINGTON (UPI) President Ford sent Congress Monday a $349 billion budget of "honest self denial" which calls for the biggest deficit in peacetime history and predicts 
rising  unemployment  and infla­ 
tion  1975 and 1976.  
The  forecasts were  the  

bleakest the administration has issued. 
"My God," said Rep. Sam Gibbon. D-Fla., when he heard about Ford's predictions. "It must mean that he is going to be a two-year president. 
If the predictions hold fast, Ford would have to run for the presidency in 1976 with early 
7.5 million persons out of work. Ford forecast greater eco­nomic stagnation this year than last. with national output dipping by 3.3 per cent when increases due to inflation are 
left out. Last year's drop in the gross national product was 2.2 per cent. f $Sl 9
11

The budget ca s or a . 
billion deficit and outlays of $349.4 billion in fiscal 1976, which starts next July. 
This is an increase of only 11 per cent -bareley keeping pase with inflation -{)Ver the $313:4 billion the government IS spending this year 
"The budget being submitted today is a compassionate one," f'ord said in remarks he delivered as he signed the 
budget  message  and  sent  it  to  
Congress.  
"It  has  muscle  as  well,"  he  

said. "It has discipline and honest self-denial. It is a start in a new direction along the permanent road of fiscal 
integrity..." 
In Congress, the action ran along two contradictory tracks. There was dismay over the size of the deficit and anguish over f'ord 's proposals to reduce scheduled increases in health, 
veterans, education, welfare,
food and other human needs 
programs. The 10 per cent
0 pera Company jump in the defense budget, to 
$94 billion, also came under

performs at SMC fire. 
The Piccolo Opera Company's production of Mozart's comic opera, "Cosi Fan Tutte" will be presented at Saint Mary's Colle~e Tuesday, February 11, at 8 p.m. m ()'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Tickets for "Cosi Fan Tutte" are $3.50 for adults and $2.00 for students. The opera is being presented as part of the College's Performing Arts Series. 
Contact the office of program­ming, 284-4176, for tickets. 

SMC Seniors throw party 
To celebrate the one hundredth 
day before graduation the St. 
Mary's senior class officers are 
sponsoring the " Senior Splash and 
Smash". Wednesday, February 5. 
The "Splash" starts at 7:00 
p.m. in the Hegina Pool and is for St. Mary's seniors only. 
1'he "Smash,' will take place immt>diately following the pool party at 9:00p.m. All seniors are to meet at Senior Club to usher in the 99th day before graduation. 
l''or information call Carol Collins at 4155. 

FOR VALENTINE'S 0AY 

Eisa's r'l~wiiculptured heart is on a chain, but it flirts up, down and around. Eighteen karat gold hearfwith fifteen-inch chain, $148. Sterling silverheartwith fifteen-inch chain, \ 34. 




DFFANY&CO. 
CHICAGO 715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE· ZIP: 60611· TEL: (312) 944-7506 Please add sales tax where applicable Design© T. & Co. 
Rep. George Mahon, D-Tex., 74, the tall, stooped-shouldered chairman of the House Appro­priations Committee, said in a House speech that the size of the budget was "breathtaking." 
"Its proposed deficits and i~e increase in the· debt w11l frighten thoughtful Americans 
and  arouse  concern  in  the  
international  financial  field,"  
he said.  

Like many other Democrats, Mahon predicted Congress would not go along with "a large majority" of the reduc­tions in social spending Ford proposed. 
St>n. Hubert H. Humphrey, D­Minn., chairman of Congress' Joint Economic Committee, objected that Ford's budget would mean "higher unem­ployment, continued double­digit inflation and deeper recession. 
"Any proposal to restore the health of our economy by cutting back on food stamps and social security in the midst of the worst recession since the 1930s is unfair and will not be approved by Congress." Humphrey said. 
Ford asked approval for $17 billion in cutbacks and said the deficits for the current and next fiscal years would top $100 billion if Congress did not comply. 
Sen. Robert C. Byrd, W.Va., the Democrat Senate whip, said the deficits would be "much larger" than' those Ford "plan­ned" since Congress would not accept such measures of holding the 1976 increase in Social Security benefits for 30 million persons to 5 per cent. 
the obser'{er 
Night Editor: Mike Strickroth Ass't Night Editor: Marti Hogan 
Layout: Karilee Clark, Maureen Sajbel Copy Reader: Ken Bradford Day Editor: Bob Radziewicz Sports: Bill Brink, Greg Corgan, Chip Spina Picture Screener: AI Editorials: John Amantea, Fred Graver 
Typists: K. Hinks, N. Viii, B. Norcross, A. Peeler, J. Carney Night Controller: Howard Halle & Tim Murphy 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Need ride to or from NYC or Ll sometime between Feb. 7-21. Call Ted 289-1775 
Severa I students need people to rnake conversation with us in Spanish. Very little tutoring. Call 259 7753 about 9:00 pm 
Need ride to Univ. of Illinois Feb. 14 & 21. Call Don 1684 
1 pr. Head Killys with Salcoman bindinqs. Raichle boots, Scott poles. Call Dan at 234-5200 
1 pr. AR 6 speakers. Like new, i'!Skinc) $130. Call 6801 
NOTICES 

HASH BROWN BLUES BAND NOW AVAILABLE FOR YOUR PARTY, DANCE OR FORMAL. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CALL 272-9895 
All Fla. residents interested in a South Fla. Club, meet tonite at 7 pm 2 D La Fortune 1478 
Casting tor new Smash Musical "Kathy Reilly" call Ron 232-7766 
A weekend for those who have mterest in A Life of Service­Prayer Feb 7-8-9, Old College, sign up Campus Ministry Office, 103 Library. 
TICKETS FOR THE PLAY "THE RIVER NIGER" TO BE PRESENTED BY THE SOUTH BEND BROADWAY THEATRE LEAGUE AT THE MORRIS CIVIC ON THURSDAY FEBRUARY 13 ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE. $1.00 DISCOUNT All TICKETS FOR NO & SMC STUDENTS. 
Money? Morrissey Loan will lend up to $150 for 30 days 1day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune. Daily 11:15 to 12:15 

LOUIE'S 
Open at 5:00 daily Foosball Tournament Every Wednesday at 7:00. 16-ounce Beer 50~ 
GREAT PIZZA & BEER 
ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS ARE WELCOME 

Join our North East Day Care parent cooperative. $15 a month plus 4 hours parent participation per week. 9-5 233-2233 
Men Wonen! Jobs on Ships! No experience required. Excellent pay. World­wide Travel; Perfect summer job or career. Send $3.00 tor in­formation. SEAFAX, Dept. G-13 
P .0. Box 2049 Port Angeles, Wash. 
RUGGERS: Meeting Tuesday, Feb 4, 4:15 outside Club Sports Office in ACC. Bring Dues and tour deposits. New members welcome. 
Toniqht Mqt. Club organizational meeting February 5 Wednesday Nile, 6:30pm, room lC LaFortune Student Center. Information on club activities and plane flights ­All interested Californians please attend. 
THIS SPRING BREAK (MARCH 22-29) REGGAE DOWN TO MONTEGO BAY, JAMAICA! ROUND TRIP BY AIR JAMAICA JET & DELUXE AC­COMODATIONS AT THE PLUSH MONTEGO BAY HOLIDAY INN. TENNIS, GOLF, SWIMMING AND GREAT RAYS IN THE CARIBBEAN SUN, $50 DE POSITS MUST BE IN BY FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14. FOR MORE INFORMATION AND SIGN-UPS, STIP BY THE TICKET OFFICE OR CALL 272-9895 AFTER 7:00 PM. ARRAI\;GEMENTS BY THE ST. JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY. 
Whoever took the purse from the ACC last Tuesday night: Please return the drivers license, I.D., checkbook, etc. Since they are worthless to you but important to me. Conna 4047 
Responsible students desire to rent motorhome tor 10 days (March 21­
30) fer trip to Florida. Will pay well. Call Trace 234-1889 
Car Problems? Come to Hoffman Bros, Eddy at Madison. Wholesale prices to ND-SMC students, faculty, staff, do-it-yourselfers. Repair service also available. Since 1929. 234-019' ND Backpackers meeting. 
Planning  Spring  Trip.  New  
members  welcome.  8  pm  Tues.  
LaFortune Aud.  

NDSMC Council for the Retarded meet at Logan Center, 7:15 Wednesday night for the ND I Michigan St. Basketball qame. More Info. Kevin 289-3408 
SIGN UPS FOR SPRING BREAK TRIP TO MONTEGO BAY CALL 272-9895 (eves) OR STOP BY STUDENT UNION TIX OFFICE ­SPONSORED BY ST. JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY. 
"YOU'VE GOTTA HAVE HEART" CHARITY DANCE SAT., FEB 8th-9:30PM TIL 12:30 AM. DENNIS BAMBER QUAR­TET, CHRIST THE KING SCHOOL GYM, U.S. 31 NORTH & 
DARDEN, SO BEND. SPON­SORED BY SOCIAL ACTION, CHRIST THE KING CATHOLIC CHURCH. FREE REFRESHMENTS ADMISSION $3.50-SINGLE, $7.00 COUPLE. TICKETS -MARY FREEl -272-4495 
FOR RENT 
503 W. Jefferson Duplex. 3 rooms second floor. Gas heat furnished 289 6307' 234-0596 
Graduate Student needs apart­rnent mate. 1 room tor each. conveniently located, reasonable rent. call 232-0030 after 6 pm tor details. 
Four large houses in excellent condition for rent. Within'> mile of campus and furnished. Leases run trom June 1, 1975 to May 31. 1976 at $300 mo. (utilities not included) Interviews this Sat & Sun (Feb. B&Ol l. Addresses are 1120 Lawrence, 1019 N. Eddy, 1034 N 
Eddy and 1126 N. Hill St. Call 233 2613 after 4 and before 11 pm. 
Share House 1013 ND Ave. $50 & utilities. 288-3408 
For Rent. furnished apt 2 people, 2 bedrooms, living room, kitchen, bath. All utilities. Near ND. 272­6174 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: South Dining Hall. Cig. Iighter, engraved w maps of Germany. Please call Mark 277­1560 
FOUND: pr. of glasses (brown) call Bill 8697 
PERSONALS 
My Camlis-Congratulations on your engagement! Welcome back to the told. Your loving Father, J.C. 
The count-down is on; just one more day until the Murph is bor., 
Sunset Steve from F lanner, wouldn't you know my class wi'ls cancelled! Peachy! Hung over (Mare) 

.. 
.. 

., 8 the observer Tuesday, February 4, 1975 
~-----~~~~~~~~~~---------
Flanner. Dillon ahead in Interhall hockeystanding 
By Art Mohl'r games outscoring its opponents by The rest of the South Quad is a total of 13-1. Jack Rafter and pretty even with six teams even at Perhaps the biggest surprise in Johnnie Coomb spearhead the two points apiece. Pangborn has the early going in this current offense and Greg Stamm has been played only one game, however, in interhall hockey season has been the man in goal with a 0.50 goals which they gained a 4-1 victorythe inability of the Off-Campus against average. over cross-quad rival Morrissey. 
team to win a game in its first two Stanford is in third place in the Pangborn is strong in goal with ex­contests. The two-time defending North Quad Division with a win Irish J.V. Wayne Deutsch, champions were expected by some and a tie in their first two games. Hannigan and Steve Gorman will to go on and win o. third con­The Jim-Shanahan-led skaters have to take up the slack caused by secutive interhall title. However, utilized the strong scoring abilities the loss of star defenseman Mike despite having some talented of Bob Ryan and Jerry Hayden as Smith who is now on the J.V.'s. skaters such as Cliff Maison, Leo they gained a bit of revenge by On Tuesday nightCushing, and Pete Roberts the 0-C skatin~ to a 5-5 tie with Off­undefeated Pangborn plays Holyrepn•sentatives have managed Campus. (Off-Campus had Cross and Stanford battles against only :i 5-5 tie against Stanford and defeated Stanford in the finals of North Quad rival Zahm. a 4-4 tie against Cavanaugh. last year's playoffs. l nesday night's schedule has Sorin 
Whi)(' Off-Campus has been At the top of the South Quad facing Alumni, in a game that is havrng its problems so far, standings is a familiar face. The vital to the playoff hopes of both 
Flannt-r has won its first three Big RPd of Dillon are 3-0 with wins teams, and Grace will face games and is currently in first of 7-2 over Alumni, 1-0 against Holy qgainst Cavanaugh. The place in the North Quad league. Cross, and 4-2 against Sorin. Thursday night game is The (ireg Coll:ns-led f'lanner team Dillon's bid for a third consecutive defeated and league-leading Dillon has shown the overall strength that playoff spot is led by Captain against Fisher. their pt-rfect record of three wins Kevin Barry. Dennis Godden, 
Meanwhile, in late games last
and no losses indicates. Larry Drachota. and Bob 
night, Off-Campus notched a 3-1
Hight behind l<'lanner with a two Hichards. The goaltending duties 
victory over previously tJnbeaten
wins and no loss record is St. Ed's. have been split between Senior St. Ed's has shown tremendous Mike O'Neill and Sophomore Bill St. Ed's and Morrissey topped e>vera11 talent in its initial two Mahn. 
Howard 4-1. Howard and Morrissey went into the second half tied 1-1, but MO_RRISSEY DEFEATED Howard 4-1 and Off-Campus topped St. Ed's Morrissey scored three quick goals 3-1 m mterha11 hockey competition last night. 
to put the game away. 

Interhall Hockey Standings, January 31, 1975






OBSERVER 
Tournament at St. John's of pounder Dave Boyer and Bob 
1\1 innesota. He wasn't scheduled to Dreger at 177 who all finished third 
Fencers sweep weekend foes 
go until another freshman Pat while 118 pounder Skip Mondragon 
McKillen was injured in a meet and heavyweight Ken Dike placed by Tom Kruczek tained convincing victories by at Paul 'angelo made the difference, earlier in the week. Landfried was fourth. !Past one of the weapons, and in winning his bout 5-1 to push the put on the traveling roster and The Irish face their busiest week In their first home meet of the somP cases two. weapon to a 5-4 victory. proceeded to make the most of his of the season starting this evening season, Notre Dame's fencers In the days opening match In addition to the overwhelming opportunity winning the National when Wayne State is the visitor to defeated Wisconsin-Parkside, against Wisconsin-Parkside, both victories by the men, the Notre Catholic title at 142 pounds. the ACC's Auxiliary Gym at 7 Bowling Green, Tri-State, and the the sabre and foil won 7-2. In epee, Dame-St. Mary's team did equally 
The rest of the Notre Dame team p.m. Tomorrow night Spring University of Minnesota Saturday the Irish wound up on top 5-4, well, defeating Tri-State 7-2 and wasn't as fortunate as the Irish Arbor College is the opponent in the auxiliary gym at the ACC. through the effort of junior Drew Bowling Green 5-4 before losing to placed a somewhat disannointing starting at 6 p.m. The Irish will be Coach De Cicco was especially Brehm. Brehm won his bout 5-2 to Wisconsin-Parkside 6-3. fourth in the eight-team meet in action for the third time in as pleased with the teams per­capture the victory for the weapon. Kathy Valdiserri finished par­behind champion John Carroll (170 many nights when they visit formance. "Now we are able to In the Bowling Green match, the ticularly well, chalking up an 11-0 
tell who our fencers are and mark for the day.
points l, Marquette (117) and host Western Michigan on Thursday. epee was the predominant weapon, 
exactly where we are in terms of accounting for a 9-0 victory, bihind Coach DeCicco related "the fine team depth," he said. "Now we the efforts of nine different fen­showing by the women in addition have quality fencers at each cers. Foil and sabre also won to the men shows that at Notre
Manager meeting slated 
weapon in addition to reasonable easily 7-2 and 6-3, respectively. Dame we have a strong fencing 
depth: Yes, I'm very pleased with In the day's third round, all three program and will only improve in 
the results of the day's fencing." weapons won without trouble the the future." 
such as keeping the records and­
The Notre Dame Student DeCicco has good reason to be closest being the 7-2 triumph by the The fencers, now 11-2 on the Managers Organization is files of all athletes and preparing pleased. The closest that any team sabre. In both foil and epee, it was season, resume play this Saturday currently holding a recruiting all of the paperwork and ac­came to the Irish was Minnesota, 8-1 in favor of the Irish. in a five team tourney that will drive for freshmen managers. counting for every game. who fell 18-9. In the other three Concluding the day's fencing include Detroit, University of 
Managers are needed for all Any freshman interested in rounds, Notre Dame downed against Minnesota, foil was the top Chicago, Indiana and Marquette. varsity sports including basket­becoming a student manager is Wisconsin-Parkside 19-8, defeated weapon, sailing to a 7-2 victory. In The first bout will begin at 10 a.m. ball, hockey, wrestling, fencing, asked to attend an informative Bowling Green 22-5 and rolled over epee the Irish won easily with a 6-3 in the gymnasium on either side of tennis, swimming, track, cross meeting tonight at 7 o'clock in the Tri-State 23-4. Each match con-margin of difference. In sabre, the hockey rink. country. baseball and football. ACC Auditorium. Anyone at­The work of the managers does not tending the session is asked to 
mt•rely consist of carrying dum­bring his class schedule and a pen. mies and water buckets at football practice, according to manager 
ND Sailing Club
Burt Bruner. Managers also 
1•ngagp in administrative activity 


continues lessons 
Women fencers This Wednesday, the Notre Dame Sailing Club will continue its classroom sailing lessons, intie for first place preparation for the thawing of St. .Joseph Lake later this month. The Tht• Notre Dame Women's lessons are run by Bruce Marek, Ft·ncing Team tied for first place the club's Commodore, after the in a 5 school round robin com­regular meetings, which are on 
pPtition held at the ACC this past Wednesdays at 6:30 in room 204 ofweekend. 

the College of Engineering.
The women's squad defeated

.. Anyone interested in sailing on any
Tri-State College 7-2, Bowling 

level is invited to attend thisGreen University 5-4, and Min­Wednesday.
nesota University 5-4 to move into a 2 way tie for first place with 

Sailing Club members areWisconsin Parkside University. 
reminded that final arrangementsKathy Valdiserri led the Notre for the Mid-Winter SchedulingDame fencers with an 11-0 record. 
Meeting at Indiana University will Other team members who par­be made at this week's meeting.
ticipated were Captain Cindy 

Also, yearbook pictures will beHebholz, Sally Fisher, Sue taken at this meeting. THE IRISH fencing team downed 4 other squads at the ACC this weekend. 
Krakora, and Trish O'Donnell. 


SOl'Tll <WAD WI!'I:S LOSSES TIES

SPORTS 
Dillon 3 0 () Pangborn 0 0 Holy Cross 0 Fisher ()
Wrestlers finish fourth in 
Howard () Sorin 2 0
Minnesota tournam~nt 
Alumni 2 0 
Freshman Pat Landfried hadn't St. John's (105). In addition to ht-t-n able to earn a starting role on Landfried, other Irish wrestlers Morrissey 2 () the Notre Dame wrestling team placing in the meet were 167 and wasn't even scheduled to make pounder Mike Kemp, (who had a the trip to the National Catholic tourney high three pins), 150 
!'I:OHTII <WAI>  WI!'I:S  LOSSES  TII':S  
Flanner  3  ()  ()  
St. Ed's  2  ()  
Stanford  ()  
Zahm  0  
Off-Campus  ()  2  
Cavanaugh  0  2  
Grace  ()  2  
KPenan  ()  2  







