
Faculty Senate views collective bargaining 


Val. X, No. 13 
Hearst captured 
Committee sees goals reachable 
~y  bargaining  
by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter  
The  Faculty  Senate  over­ 

whelmingly passed a resolution last night endorsing a committee report on collective bargaining. In a special meeting held in the CCE, the senate voted with •only two dissenting votes to distri1>ute the report to the entire faculty, ad­ministration officials and the Board of Trustees. 
The report submitted by the Faculty Senate Committee on Collective Bargaining "discusses the general goals attainable through collective bargaining, summarizes previous Senate reports and reviews the ad­ministration's responses to these, 
outline the present situation at Notre Dame and summarizes specific governance issues which have arisen here in recent years, and presents a resume of the collective bargaining contracts negotiated at St. John's and Temple Universities." 
An initial report to the Notre Dame faculty on the issue of collective bargaining CFSCB-1) was distributed in December 1974. A faculty referendum con­ducted by the Senate in February 1975 revealed 25 per cent of the faculty favored collective bargaining, 25 per cent opposed it, and 50 per cent requested more information. In response to this this request the Faculty Senate Committee on Collective ,Bargaini_l!g prepared the second, more 'detailed report <FSCB-11) for consideration by the Senate. It is this report which was amended and approved last night. 
The report notes that ··~xcessive exercise of authority by ad­
admintstrators' has been "a 
primary motivation for collective 
bargaining at universities." 
Alternative options, including 
"expressions of opinions and ac­
tions by individuals, groups or 
faculty organizations," are usually 
ineffectual, the report notes, "if 
they are accompanied by no real 
power." 
A number of channels for faculty involvement in university governance are specified in the Academic Manual, the report continues, but it "reserves to the administration large areas for action and decision-making without input from the faculty." 
"In areas where faculty inputs to decisions are specified,'' the report charges, "the recommendations of the faculty may be ignored) neither accountability nor grievance procedures are provided." 
In an appendix to the main report, the senate committee details four instances in which the administration failed to comply with the provisions of the Academic Manual. 
In the summer of 1970 the Board of Trustees and the President of the University replaced the 
posWon of Vice President for Academic Affairs with the office of Provost of the University, and 1Continued on page 13) 

I 
1 
..j
server I I 
-st. mary's college 
by Maggie Waltman Staff Reporter 
The food co-op for off-campus students is one step closer to realization. 
Right now the most immediate concern, according to Tom Fit­zgerald, director of the co-op pmject, is the membership drive. 
Fitzgerald announced yesterday that registration for the co-op will be held next week. Volunteers will be in the LaFortune lobby Tuesday through Friday, Sept. 23-26, to register off-campus students in­terested in the student-run co-op. 
Fitzgerald emphasized the importance of next week's membership drive. "All the preliminary work that I and several students have done will be worthless unless students register next week," he said. 
The final establishment of a co­op is "all dependent on the registration drive," he said. Fitzgerald added that the co-op committee can work out details when there is enough student in­volvement. 
"We hope that the drive will ultimately result in a co-op that will be to everyone's benefit," said Fitzgerald. 
The location of the this fee be but not 
Hall held a Beat-Purdue pep rally last night. Guest of honor,General George Patton, gave a rousing speech and detail still in doubt. Fitzgerald said he has talked to several people concerning the co-op location because he does not want to "make a one-man decision." 
There has been some difficulty finding a building big enough with the necessary electrical equipment and at also in a convenient location for off-campus students. Fit­zgerald said the location has been narrowed down to two sites, but would not elaborate. 
After discussing alternatives for the way the co-op would be run, the committee decided that a direct service-charge system is the most feasible. This form of co-op should result in a student saving of about ten percent if he uses the co-op to 
the  fullest  extent  possible,  Fit­ 
zgerald said.  
"I  hope  people  realize  the  

distinction between the direct service charge and the mem­bership fee," Fitzgerald said. 
The membership fee will be used for building improvements, licenses and remodeling. In general all expenses involved in starting the co-op will rely on the money collected during the registration drive. 
The direct service charge is a flat rate members will be charged to help with the upkeep of the co­op. Fitzgerald emphasized that 
predicted Impending and over­whelming victory for Notre Dame. (Photo by Paul Joyce.} Friday, September 19, 1975 
in California 
minute." 
The service charge will depend on the number of students who join the co-op. The more members there are, the less the service charge will be, Fitzgerald said. 
Fitzgerald said he cannot stress enough the importance of the registration drive, and urged all off-campus 1 students to join. He estimated that approximately 900 members are needed if..,the co-op is to be successful. 
Last spring, the food co-op committee, then headed by Steve 1::ichendel, held a membership drive, but failed to sign up enough students: to make the project economically feasible. 
Approximately 500 students registered for the co-op then, most of whom paid a two-dollar deposit fee. The rest charged the entire five-dollar fee to their varents 
The charge was never added to the tuition bill of those students. 
Fitzgerald said the students who paid the two-dollar deposit i~ ca~h are automatically members m th1s year's co-op. Next week all they have to do is go to LaFortune, present their recept and pay the three-dollar \balance they owe .. 
The students who charged the entire five-dollar fee must re­register next week. They will not be able to charge the membership fee this year because, according to Fitzgerald, "at this stage cash-on· hand is necessary to get the co-op 
going."  
Students  who  either  have  
questions  regarding  the  
registration  drive  or  who  would  

like to help; can call Fitzgerald at 7668 or 1542. 
ON THE INSIDE 
-·····----··-·------­
Father Griffin speaks abouf autumn rituals ... page 9 Television preview ... page 9 Are GPA's on the rise? ... page 6 The expanding SMC Nursing department ... page 5 
Know your SLC candidates 
... page 3 How'bulldings are used ... page 10 
Harrises caught by authorities while jogging 
By BERNARD HURWITZ Associated Press Writer SAN FRANCISCO <APl Fugitive newspaper heiress Pa­
tricia  Hearst  and  three  radical  
comrades  were  arrested  Thurs­ 
day, ending  one  of  the  longest  

and most bizarre manhunts in 
American history. 
Miss Hearst, first the captive and then the zealous comrade­in-arms of the Symbionese Ub­eratioo ,.Army, was arrested without resistance in a house in the city's Bernal Heights dis­trict along with fugitive Berke­ley artist Wendy Yoshimura, 32. 
About an hour earlier, police and federal agents working on the case arrested SLA mem­bers William and Emily Harris when they spotted them jogging on a street a few miles away. 
"Thank God she's all right," Miss Hearst's mother, Cath­erine, said in a barely audible voice when informed of her daughter's arrest. "Please call it a rescue, not a capture." 
Miss Hearst's father, San Francisco Examiner President Randolph A. Hearst, was in New York on business and said as he boarded a plane for San Francis.co: "I am very pleased that things turned out the way they did." 
Hearst said of the bank rob­bery charge against his daugh­ter: "I don't think anything will happen on that score. After all she was a kidnap victim, you must remember." 
FBI special agent-in-charge Charles Bates said the arrests "effectively put an end to ev­eryone we know who was in the SLA." 
The arrest of Miss Hearst came less than 10 miles from the Berkeley apartment where she was kidnaped by SLA members Feb. 4, 1974. 
Miss Hearst, 21, and the Har­rises were arraigned before 
U.S. Magistrate Owen Woodruff on a variety of state and feder­al charges and held on $500,000 bail each pending further hear­ings Friday. 
Miss Yoshimura was released to the custody of the Alameda County Sheriff's office, where she is charged with possessing explosives. 
William Harris, 30, and Em· ily, 28, were arraigned after the 21-year-old Miss Hearst was taken from the courtroom. As he entered the room, Harris raised both fists and said loud­ly, "Hey, comrades, keep on truckin'.'' 
Bail for all three was set at $500,000. Miss Hearst, who at one time posed in 
military fatigues with an automatic rifle in her hand, wore a mauve-colored long­sleeve shirt, brown jeans and sandals at her arraignment. 
As she stood before the /mag­istrate with her attorney, Ter· rence Hallinan, her arms were folded across her chest. She had what appeared to be a sil­ver band on the third finger of her left hand. 
Prior to Miss Hearst, Miss Yoshimura, 32, was brought be­.c.onUnued on page 5) 

~2;;;;;;;;;:;;;t~h~e;;o;;;;b~se~r~ve;;;r~~;;;;;;;F~rl~da~V·~Se=pte;;;m;;;;;ber:;;l;;;;9';;;;197~5 
warld briefs 
CHICAGO <AP> -An environmental group charged Thursday that United States Steel Corp. failed to report 18 percent of its oil spills to the Security and Exchange Commission, as required by federal law. 
AMMAN, Jordan <AP) ··Jordan on Thursday rejected conditions set by President Ford for the sale of Hawk antiaircraft missiles as "insulting to national dignity" and indicated it may buy Soviet SAM missiles instead. 
NEW YORK <AP) --The five striking National Football League teams agreed Thursday to return to work and thus ended, at least temporaryily, the threat hhis hhis that this weekend's 13 regular-season openers would not be played. 
MIAMI <AP> --Eloise, the • killer hurdcane which charged 
through the Caribbean leaving thousands homeless and at least 28 
persons dead, was downgral:ted to a tropical storm Thursday as its 
winds and torrential rains pelted eastern Cuba. ' ·-_ 
But the National Hurricane Center here said the storm may 
regain hurricane strength and possibly turn its menacing force 
toward the U.S. mainland. ·~ 
WASHINGTON <AP> -The Postal se'rvice moved Thursday to 
increase the cost of mailing a first-class letter from 10 to 13 cents 
effective shortly after Christmas. 
The proposal, filed with the Postal Rate Commission, also seeks 
to increase the cost of a postcard from seven t«> 10 cents and the 
rates of other types of mail from 10 percent to nearly 24 percent. 
an .:ampus taday 
friday, sept; 19, 1975 
5:15 pm -mass and dinner, bulla shed 
7:30 
pm -obscentity conference, "principled pornography or freedom's revenge", speaker: prof. ralph mclnerny, cce 

7:30 
and 10 pm-film "paplllon", o'laughlin aud. $1.25 9-1 am -coffeehouse "nazz coffeehouse" Iafortune basement 9-1 am smc coffeehouse, basement of smc dining hall 


saturday, sept. 20, 1975 
1:30pm-football "NOTRE DAME AT PURDUE" TELEVISION COVERAGE ON CHANNEL 16 7 p.m. -banquet "International women's year banquet", speaker: dr. marjorie bell chambers, pres. of national aauw, college dining hall, $6. 4 pm -obscenity conference "the literary exploration of sexuality", speaker: prof. doleres frese, cce 
7:30pm-film, "chinatown", engineering aud. $1' 7:30pm-hockey "chicago blackhawks vs. dallas" ace fieldhouse adults, $3.50, students with ID, $2 7:30pm -lecture "adoption Identity', by ralph maxfleid, library aud. 8 pm -obscentiy conference "colloquium on obscentiy and the community", speakers: roger francis, robert Iaven, james langford, cce 8 and 11 pm-film "papilion" o'laughlln aud. $1.25 
9:30 . 1:30 am -coffeehouse "nan coffeehouse" Iafortune basement 
Cost of a letter to go to 13 cents by Christmas 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Postal Service said it moved Friday to increase the cost of a 
first-dass stamp from 10 to 13 
cents, effective shortly after Christmas. 
The proposal, filed with the Postal Rate Commission, also would increase on a temporary 
basis the cost of a postcard
from eight to 10 cents. 
The proposed increases in first-class mail, postcards and 
Other Classes Of mail Would Pro­Vl.de the Postal Serv1·ce with an additl·onal $2.4 billion yearly in revenue, a Spokesman sa1·d. 
In l"ts rate l·ncrease request, 
the Postal Service said it cur-,.--------------.;;.;..;;.;;....so'""_-~c..ta'"'T..,o,_m_m_l..;..ss""'t..._on_.___-, 
rently is losing money· at the 
rate of $2.6 billion a year, de­spite the new rates imple­
mented Sept. 14 that made per­manent the 10-cent first-class stamp. 
Other proposed increases for each major rate· category are: -Regular second-class mail, 
22.1 per cent. -Third-class bulk rate regu­
lar mail, 23.9 per cent. -Parcel post, 10.1 per cent. -Special rate parcels, 21.1 
per cent. . , ..... , .. 
• • ·~. ,J • i , • ~ 
SUNDAY MASS S (Main Church) 
Sat. 5:15P.M.  Fr. Robert GrlWn, C.S.C.  
Sun. 9:30 A.M.  Fr. Edward Malloy, c:s. C.  
Sun. 10:45 A.M.  Fr. Dave Burrell, C.S.C.  
Sun. 12:15 P.M.  Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C.  

Evensong at 7:15 P;M. In Lady Chapel '.,... 
. ..•. 
The Postal Service also re­quested increasing the cost of the current 13-cent air mail 
stamp from 13 cents to 17 
cents. But officials pointed out that current upgrading of first-class mail to air-mail status, expected to be completed by Oct. 11, would make purchase 
of air-mail stamps of little val­
ue. 
The Postal Service also said it intends to raise fees for spe­cial services and international mail rates, averaging from 34 per cent to 100 per cent. Special
.
1 d 1 d 1.
services inc u e spec1a e 1v­
d . ed il 
ery letters an regtster rna . 
SMC student empl0 yees not collecting minimum 
by Jean Powley 
Staff Reporter 
Contrary to popular belief, not all United States citizens are covered under the federal minimum wage standard. There are exceptions. St. Mary's College student employees are among the ranks of the "excepted" few. 
The College pays its student 
workers $1.85 per hour, only 85 per 
cent of the $2.10 per hour minimum 
wage required by the federal 
government. 
According to St. Mary's Director 
of Financial Aid, Jean Gorman, 
the school is exempted from the 
requirement by a federal act. 
At present St. Mary's employs 
250 $tudents (not including those 
employed by Saga Food Service). 
If the college were forced to pay 
$2.10 per hour, it would have to 
reduce the number of jobs 
available. With the present 
system, it is attempting to "spread 
the wealth" a little, by offering 
employment to more students at a 
lower wage. 
The department of financial aid 
accepts applications for em­
ployment from any student, 
however, those with a financial 
need are hired first. 
There are actually two different­
student work programs running 
simultaneously at St. Mary's. 
The College Work-Study 
program is subsidized by the 
federal government, with the 
Rabbi and priest share dialogue 
An inter-religious dialogue, "Sanctity of Human Life in the Light of Contemporary Violence," will be sponsored by Campus Ministry and the Department of Theology in the University of Notre Dame's Memorial Library Auditorium at 8 p.m. Monday, September 29. 
Participants will be Rabbi Leo 
M. Abrami of Beth-El Congregation in Berkely, Ca., Rev. George B. Grose of the National Council of Churches and Dr. A. Muhsin El-Biali of Islamic Foundation, California. 
The program is open' to the public without charge. 
'Quickie' service starts tonight 
The Notre Dame-st. MaFy's 
Quickie Shuttle resumes service 
this weekend. The shuttle bus 
travels up and down Rt. "31" 
visiting taverns, restaurants and 
theaters along the way. · 
The Quickie was started to 
provide,a safe and efficient means 
for students to go to Michigan. The 
bus eliminates the dangers of
hitch-hiking and driving while 
drunk. 
The bus stops at Kubiak's, Jay's, 
Shula's, Denny's, Boar's Head, 
Heidelburg Inn and now also at the 
Forum I and II theaters. The
buses leave the Notre Dame Circle 
at 8:30, 9:00, 9:30, d10:00, 11:00, 12P:~, 12:30, 1:00th, an 1:30. I t 
riCes are e same as as
f 11 · h d
years, .75 or an a -mg t pass an
50f Th Q · ld · 
. or one-way. e w~ ., e IS run
b th N t D Soc" I c
y e o re arne 1a om­
· · d ed b th
mlslon an co;sponsor y e
SMC · 1 c · · 
college matching the grant with 20 percent of its own funds. 
To be employed under this program, a student must demonstrate a financial need and be a full-time student in good standing. 
The other campus employment program is run exclusively by the college, with the same basic requirements for hiring. However, if a special skill is needed for a particular job, the financial need requirement may be overlooked, allowing a qualified person to be hired. 
Students are employed in many capacities by the college. Jobs are available in the foreign language lab, music department, bookstore, and post office, to name a few. 
Freshman work five hours per week and upperclassmen work 10 hours per week, with the individual 
choosing to have the wages ap­plied to her tuition, or paid directly. 
Students who work in the dining hall are hired and fired by the Saga Food Service. 
Three student managers, one Notre Dame and two St. Mary's students, handle all of the hiring, firing, scheduling and most of the training. 
The most important hiring factor to Saga is availability. 
"You must beavailablewhen we want you, not when you want to work," explained Charles Falim, Saga manager at St. Mary's 
The food service employs ap­proximately 85 St. Mary's and about 25 Notre Dame students. 
The girls are paid $1.8 5 per hour 
and the Notre Dame students are 
paid $1.75 per hour plus their meal. 
Flaim prefers students to work between 10 and 15 hours per week, explaining that usually these students are more well-rounded. 
Those working more than 15 hours a week often -fail in their studies and their social lives. Those working less than 10 hours usually don't take the job very seriously. 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session. except during exams and vacation periods. The Observer IS published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. 
Subscriptions may be purchased tor 10 dollars per semester ( ie dollars per year) from The Ob server. Box Q. Notre Dame. In diana. 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
-~----­
&PECIAL WEEKEND ROOM-RATES FOR­WOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$6~!1e occupancy $895 Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just 
mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. except home football game weekends. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219) 272-7555 
3 miles North of the Tqllroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 
SeRd this. ad to ~cSur parents 
WHY IS THIS MAN SMILING?In order to put forth a friendly ap­pearance, N.D. Security personnel now sport attire less akin to a formal uniform. (photo by Paul Joyce.) 
Amendment talk on cable T.V. 
An address on "The First 
Amendment and the Formation of 
Character in a Republic" by Dr. 
Walter Berns, University of 
Toronto political economist, will be 
televised at 12:30 p.m. Saturday 
<Sept. 20) and again at 1 p.m. 
Sunday <Sept. 21) on Cable 
Channel 2. 
Berns spoke at the opening 
session of the Conference on Ob­
scenity and Community Standards 
held this week at the University of 
Notre Dame. The General 
Program of Liberal Studies at 
Notre Dame, the Civic Center 
Authority of South Bend, and the 
Indiana Committee for the 
Humanities sponsored the con­
ference. 
AND THE WILD WEST... 
SBIGIO LEONE pr-• 
D'\? 
·=-~ 
A IJNIVERSAL RELEASE ~ TEOiNICOLOR. _ISIQN_• 
STARTS FRIDAY CALL 288-8488 FOR TIMES 

FOR YOUR BACK PACKING NEEDS 
233-8383 
SIERRA SPORTS 
2216 MIAMI SOUTH BEND, IN. 
AN OLD FASHIONED DOUBLE FEATURE ­

~: .,...""'"' t-................. "' .......... .-.-.......... .,.._......., ............. ~ ... •,1,,.,, 


,
; .
}· ,. • l~· ··~ ~· -~· \,:. :' , '· ' .}:.. . ~ 
='.. ~;.:·• • ,:~ •Ull'i,h.t\·!v.;. ·,\(d)'""'"1' ____ :.~ :~·':' :•::. ;_f / rJ .t f :. : 
• • & •• --1' .. "'..'• ....... • ••.•• -~-. -•
.. ~ .·,: . . :c: 
Friday, September 19, 1975 the obsevrve'r' 
3 
Ten SLC candidates announced 
by Marianne Schulte hall judicial boards depends to a great surprised to discover that she was the only 'old-faithfuls," said Van Tassel. extent on the respect of the dean of students, woman interested in running for the SLC Van Tassel would like to see more em­I'd like to reserve judgment on the success this year. phasis placed on hall politics, and
Barbara Breitenstein 
of the judicial board until we know the new "There are a lot of issues which concern disciplinary offenses which occur the Nine of the ten candidates for the un­dean better. In the past, there was little women are going to arise as issues in dorm should be judged within the hall by the respect on the part of the faculty towards the council this year. This is their voice and offender's peers present on the judicial
dergraduate seats on the Student Life 
the judicial board." they are ne!llilzent in using this means to board. ','Only when the hall rector feels he is Council commented on what they feel will be 
important issues facing the SLC this year. "There are other issues on campus and at voice their objections and viewpoints." incapable of handling the situation or when the university besides drinking and Weaver cited this reason as her most im­the offense is flagrant or repeated should
Sean McLinen, a Keenan junior; Jim parietals with which the SLC should concern portant singular purpose for choosing to run the matter be taken before the dean ofSpurling, a senior in Zahm; Ed Van Tassel, 
itself," explained McLinden. "Hall life is for a seat on the council. students. By keeping the ruling within thea Keenan junior; and Stacey Weaver, a 
Farley sophmore are competing for the one such area. A revision of the system of The Keenan-stanford proposal is a good halls themselves, the disciplinary measure rector selection would determine the in­example of an issue which concerns women can be kept in closer perspective to the
North Quad seat. 
Sorin junior Mike Richter; John Salveson, dividual rector's ability to deal effectively !l.nd in which the female viewpoint should be problem itself." a ,junior in Alumni; Tom Hogan, a and fairly with the students in his or her expressed, according to Weaver. "Although Van Tassel believes that the role of the hall. What is needed are rectors who are I am for coed living on campus at ND, I S ,Lc in such disciplinary measures would
Cavanaugh senior; and Andy Simhauser, a 
Pangborn junior are runnign for the South closer to the students so that the rector can believe that he Keenan-stanford bid would be to establish a certain set of guidelines for act more as a counselor than as a director.'' be a poor excuse for such, due to the layout the hall judiciary boards to take into ac­
Quad seat. 
Two students are competing for the Off­McLinden advocates the institution of a of the adjoining halls." Weaver also count when making their decisions. Campus seat. Phil Mancini, a junior living student interview board in each hall which commented that the physical condition of 
would periodically review the effectiveness the two halls is not of the best quality, and On the issue of coed dormitories, Vanin the Campus View apartments and John 
Lynch, a senior living on Notre Dame Ave. and stJitabilty of the hall rector. would require extensive rehabilitation and Tassel believes that the Keenan-stanford "I believe the Stanford-Keenan situation repair before either would lend itself as a proposal would only be good for a step
are vying for the position. Mancini was 
unavailable for an interview last night. as proposed now is a waste of time. If you're suitable dorm for campus women. towards further coed living, and only if Primary elections will be held Tuesday, actually going to go coed, you're going to Weaver does not realize a need for any parietal hours were greatly extended in September 23. have to assimmilate the real world, and I do change in the university's alcohol order to create a freer atmosphere. not see any of the present dorms on campus guidelines. "As far as I can see, it is pretty 
North Quad "If Keenan-Stanford is relegated to coed
capable of being considered as a real loose as far as alcohol in the dorms is 
living, the problem remains of which menSEAN MCLINDEN,a junior from Keenan 
possibility," said McLinden. concerned." She also did not express a need 
and women will be placed into it. If theHall, has worked with the Student Union "There are many other areas of student for any investJt!}at on into the drug situation, 
administration decides that only studentsOmbudsman service for the last two years. life with which the SLC should concern and declined to comment on the subject of with above a 3.75 grade point average canOther experience with student government themselves beyond the issues of drinking parietal hours. 
live there, then another unnatural livingwas acquired during his freshman year and parietals -I would like to see the in­Keenan junior ED VAN TASSEL notes a situation will be created and we're just back when he worked with judicial coordinator stitution of more campus activities with lack of student interest in relation to the where we started," said Van Tas~el.
Greg Smith on revising campus judicial which students might occupy themselves. A 
activities of the SLC. "Half the students
board procedures, and in setting up and revision in the quickie shuttle bus so that it Van Tassel's solution to this placement
aren't aware of the issues being discussed, 
clarifying certain issues ir. ~onnection with stops at others places in addition to the bars problem is to completely switch one of the
and the others don't really care."
the SBP platform of Ray Ca}.;p last year. On would help," rcontinued McLinden. two male dorms in question with one of the
Although this is his first exposure tooccasion he was concerned with the student female dorms on the North Quad in order tocampus politics, he comes with an activegovernment during his writing experience "I also feel that students on campus need simulate a normal living situation and ainterest in an effort to "get somethingwith the Scholastic two years ago. a place to go late at night where they can get suitable cross section of people. He also
done."
McLinden feels that the restructuring of together to talk and interact. Darby's Place feels that some exceptional rectors will be the campus judicial board should be given is too big, and LaFortune gets locked up at "I am tired of waiting around for other required to make the situation work. 
serious consideration by the S.C as one of its midnight,.. McLinden concluded. people to get things done. Maybe what we primary concerns. "Since the success of the Farley sophmore STACY WEAVER was need is some fresh faces instead of all the (('ontlnut>d on page 4) 
Faccenda clarifies new drinking policy 
by Patrick Hanifin 
Editorial Editor 
Last spring Dr. Philip Faccenda, University counsel, was in­strumental in getting the Indiana legislature to pass a bill limiting the University's liability arising from underage student drinking. This potential liability had arisen from a setof Indiana court cases which ruled that in some situations adults might be held liable for damage done by a minor who drank on their property or with their knowledge. 
Dr. Faccenda has agreed to answer a series of questions about the effects of the new liability limitation law on student drinking at Notre Dame. Most of these questions were submitted in writing and received written replies. 
Q: Does your blll remove Jlablllty from the University which it might Incur simply from students drinking on its property? 
A: Yes, if by liability you mean legal responsibility to "third parties." 
Q: Under the bill is the University still liable if the University official is aware of an underage student drinking? 
A: No, unless the University official participates in the illegal actions in some active way. The bill emphasizes that the burden of obeying the Indiana law regarding drinking, rests squarely upon the shoulders of the person taking the drink, and the person or persons who actively provide the drink. Other persons who merely-become aware of the drinking, have only the responsibility of an ordinary citizen. 
Q: What would constitute participation In an active way? 
A: Any situation in which a University official takes an active part in breaking the law. This would include among other things a University offical giving an underage student a drink. An official helping to plan a party where it is obvious even in the planning stages that underage drinking could likely occur would also raise trouble. 
Q: For the purposes of the law, who Is a "University official?" 
A: To my knowledge, Indiana directive to hall staffs telling them now moving into other problem a hall must remind students within law has never clearly defined this to refrain from anything which 
areas such as selling alcohol, and the hall of their obligation to obeyquestion. In my opinion, a might be taken as active par­the University's own rules. the state law, but beyond that, I
"University offical" in this con­ticipation, could the University 
Q: Roemer has sug$ested that would look for regulations which
text, is any member of the Student still be held liable if an official hall student governments be emphasize the necessity forAffairs' staff while performing his violated the directive? 
maturity in party planning.
allowed to draft and enforceor her assigned duties. A: Maybe. That is something alcohol regulations. Would your 
Q: Could students such as hallwe should never have need to get
Q: If a student over 21 gives office or the Dean's office have to presidents and j-board members
into.
alcohol to his roommate who is approve the regulations to ensure over 21 years old who are chargedunder 21, is he liable? Q: Dean of Students James that they do not get the University with the enforcement of the
A: Yes, anyone who actively Roemer has suggested allowing in legal troublt>? 
regulations be held legally liable If
provides alcohol to an underage section parties. Wouldn't these A: I have not discussed this a student from that hall had an 
person in Indiana violates the law. create liability for the University matter with Dr. Roemer, and accident after drinking?
if, as is highly likely, a University therefore do not know what heQ: If a University official sees A: Yes, if they ·actively par­official was aware of them?
underage drinking and does not plans. ticipated in any way in providing
A: No, unless University of­act, is he personally liable? 
Q: What kind of minimum the alcohol to the underage person. 
ficials took an active part.
A: No. standards would the halls have to What we are trying to get across 
Q: Does a student have to be Q: If it is possible to have a meet to avoid liability either for to everyone is that we cannot give
legally intoxicated for the section party which an R.A. is the University or for themselves? them a blueprint. We cannot tell University to be liable? aware of, is it possible to have a A: I would hope that a hall would 
you what you can do in any given
A: No, to my knowledge, In­hall party which the rector would set standards which are ap­circumstance but only what you
diana applies all of its laws in this likely know about? propriate to a University com­cannot do legally. What you can do area to the first drink. Yes, if you are talking about 
munity, and not simply in com­will be up to you to figure out. 
Q: If the Univel'sity sent out a Indiana law. However, you are pliance with a state law. Obviously Q: Thank _you, Dr. Faccenda. 
&lAID PUll CAUIB! II!BB ACT 
..,----~LID" 
!WO-IBGOID II! 
DCJRII 
FOO!S!OIIPDJ'IIDSIC CLOIBI!OBOD 
QlllftBBIDI WI'IB IIADBJCD BUD 
!IILOCO...,..
SODIIIDorWOIDIII'UL 
s..., 



NOW... at Notre DaRie Book Store 

~· ·---------~ 
the observer Friday~· kptember 19, 1975 
r 4 
' I 
r 
f 
.~t.~,pominees vie for three posts 
On the issue of coed dormitories, 
t 
Van Tassel believes that the Keenan-stanford proposal would
~ 
only be good for a step towards further coed living, and only if parietal hours were greatly ex­tended in order to create a freer atmosphere. "If Keenan-stanford is relegated to coed living, the problem remains of which men and women will be placed into it. If the ad­ministration decides that only students with above a 3.75 grade point average can live there, then another unnatural living situation will be created and we're just back where we started," said Van TasseL Van Tassel's solution to this placement problem is to com­pletely switch one of the two male dorms in question with one of the female dorms on the North Quad in order to similate a nt>rmal living situation and a sUitable cross section of people. He also feels that some exceptional rectors will be required to make the situation work. 
As far as the extension of parietal hours is concerned about improving the life of the women here as far as biases and slights that they receive in classes and other situations. He particularly wishes to receive input from the women on campus in order that immediate work can begin on finding solutions to the problems. 
Van Tassel added in final comment, "The SLC should be the potent force in examining student life here at ND and in taking the initiative to accomplish things quickly so students don't have to wait in limbo for past-due changes." 
Five central issues, parietals, a coed dorm, the alcohol policy, the COUL report and the judicial boards, make up the thrust of JIM SPURLING'S campaign for Student Life Council office. 
Spurling feels that in-depth studies should be made on these issues, including a new student poll on parietals. "I don't think most students don't want them changed," Spurling stated, but that the poll would have to show what type of extensions should be made. 
"If Notre Dame is to become a 
· coed university," Spurling e...~ ·lined, "the possibilities for a coed dorm must be examined." Spurling cited the Campus View appartments as an example !of how coed living is working here right now. He suggested that, with the help of residents there, the apartments should be used to run experiments on such housing." 
"The regulatory capabilities should go back to the halls themselves," Spurling said, and the senior feels that these should be incorporated in the hall judicial boards. 
Spurling has worked in the Zahm Hall government for four years, is a member of Alpha Phi Omega and was a candidate for stud~nt body vice-president last year,. 
"The SLC has so much poten­tial," Spurling concluded, "because it is the one place where ;;tudents, faculty and ad­ministration work together, and I think the students' concerns must become first and foremost in the minds of educators." 
m~r Qtnlnnial 
1Jantakr ~oust 
~ 
''Enjoy ~-:-:-;2.:~-7.:~::::~::~:::::~:~:~::~:=:~::::::::::::' 
::::' ..:35\iarieties of Pancak_es ~:~ }Chicken . Steak . Sandw1ches :~: 
(Friday Nites: Perch Dinners ) 
:~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::-:-:-:::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;::::::::::::* 
Your Host 
u.s. 31 {Oixiewe~y) North 
Bob Edwards, NO '50.
(Across from Holiday Inn) 
South Quad 
"This isthemost pivotal year of the Student Life Council," TOM HOGAN explains, "so government experience is the main issue of the campaign." 
With the SLC reduced to just five areas and with the dean of students, Hogan feels that ex­perience is a very necessary requirement for office in the council. As president of Cavanaugh Hall, temporary HPC Chairman, by working in hall government and in the senior class, Hogan feels that he is the only SLC candidate who fulfills the requirements. 
"I have worked with government on a university level," Hogan said," and so I gave gotten to know a lot of people." 
Hogan places the alcohol and judicial board questions together at the head of the SLC's priorities. 
He feels the SLC should set down 
general, campus-wide guidelines 
for alcohol, which should be kept 
as uniform as possible for all halls. 
Hogan also feels that the halls 
should be given more power 
through their judicial boards. 
The Stanford-Keenan proposal of the COUL report, another issue in the campaign, is a "a good idea," Hogan says. "The Grace proposal (of last year) would be more feasible," he continues, " but any step toward coed dorms is better than the way it is now, even a compromise." 
'In this "pivotal year," Hogan concludes that if the SLC does not work, "we might as well throw it out." 
ANDY SIMHAUSER, a junior from Pangborn, seeks a seat in the SLC as an advocate of students' freedoms. ·iAithough I haven't been involved in any aspect of student government as yet at Notre Dame, I was involved for four years with the student council in high schooL I decided to remain uninvolved for the first two years at Notre Dame in order that I could wait to see where I was in relation to university policies and the student government here," Simhauser explained. 
"Students are starting to get 
more involved in campus 
activities," Simhauser com­
mented. "The good turnout at 
Activities Night is proof of that. I 
am anxious to see more things 
happening right here on campus, 
and definitely want to see an in­
crease in the number of hall 
parties." 
When questioned about his views 
on the alcohol guidelines, 
Simhauser responded that he 
believes alcohol is a greater 
concern on campus than drugs. "I 
think that the university views the 
use of marijuana as a greater 
corrupting agent than alcohoL I 
would like to see a lessening of the 
penalty for the use of drugs. This 
would mean, of course, a 
restructuring of the present judicial board system, in order that the decision o the dean of student affairs, or a legislative body in which the dean hynself approves the selection of its members, will not possess total decision-making powers in such matters." 
Simhauser believes that parietal hours in any form should be totally abolished. "The university ad­minist~ation and trustees~ave got to reahze·that they cannot act en locale parentes and also have a mature student body" 
Simhauser does not view the 
abolition of parietal hours as an 
invasion of privacy. He com­
mented, "That's something you 
just haveto learn to live with. And as far as an invasion of privacy is concerned you don't have a lot of privacy here at Notre Dame anyway." 
"Coed dorms would be in­valuable in helping to ease the social situation at Notre Dame. The Keenan-Stanford proposal as it exists now will only work if there aren't any barriers erected bet­ween the two _halls, and if parietal hours are obliterated. How can you have a coed dorm and have parietal hours." 
The SLC shuld also concern itself 
in other matters than drugs, 
alcohol, and parietals, according 
to Simhauser. He would like to see 
the council investiga'te other 
matters of concern more 
specifically the transformation of 
women's club sports into women's 
varsity sports. 
"The time has come for the SLC to realize that they area representative body for the students. and not just an advisory council." Simhauser said. "The power of the SLC lies in its abilities to pass issues by the Board of 
Trustees." 
MIKE RICHTER, a junior from Sorin Hall, returns to Notre Dame after spending a year abroad in Austria with the Innsbruck study program. 
"Being away for a year has given me a different perspective of campus life," Mike admits. "I was able to sit back and look at Notre Dame in a more objective manner. From reading Observers, I was 
amazed at how certain campus 
issues were really emphasized, 
and then faded from the scene 
unresolved. Too many worthwhile 
matters are abandoned before 
solutions are formulated." 
Richter expressed concern that 
tte SLC has lost some of its power 
due to neglect. "When it was first 
established in 1968, the council was 
held in very high esteem as a 
legislative body by students, 
faculty and administration alike. 
but over the past few years, the 
council has let its legislative 
powers slip away and has become 
more like an advisory council, 
primarily due to non-
communicative student 
representatives and the deficiency 
on the part of the student body to 
ask and demand to know." 
Richter stressed that one of his 
foremost aims would be to the area 
of student affairs and make the 
students more fully aware of the 
services and opportunities af­
forded to the student through this 
office. "Too students here 
..  "DAZZLING!"  
•  ·N.Y. OAILY,N  
' •  "EXHILARATING" ·NEWSWEEK  

slltUJIJlY 
OLIVER REED -'SI 
R. DALTREY AMPLE: FREE PARKI.NG 
are not even aware of the functions 
of the department of student af­
fair~." . . 
Richter strives to achieve a more open line of student com­munication and reminds students of the power of group pressure. "I foresee as one of the most urgent duties of the SLC to inform the students of the problems so they <J'<inrealize them as a group con­cerns. In this way the SLC would 
Richter strives to achieve a more open line of student com­munication and reminds students of the power of group pressure. "I foresee as one of the most urgent duties of the SLC to inform th 
students of the problems so they can realize them as group con­cerns. In this way the SLC would be exerting more influence than if they quielty proposed some bill which would later be rejected by the trustees or ignored as other issue." arose." 
Richter considers the restric­
turing of the judicial board a good 
ideas,and believes that the alcohol 
guidelines might be worked at 
being extended, although he 
recognized the need to work within 
the guidelines of the Indiana state 
21law. 
"Coed dormitories would be 
valuable assets in helping to 
dissolve some of the social 
barriers between men and women 
on campus," Richter commented. 
"The Stanford-Keenan proposal 
affords a good possibility of 
establishing a coed dorm here on 
campus but only if it is made into a 
coed dorm in the free sense of the 
word. The experiment would be 
worthless if barriers are erected 
between the two adjoining dorms 
and parietal hours are left unex­
tended." 
In final comment, Richter noted, 
"lam anxious that tte SLC does not 
get too caught up in piccune 
details. The Students must learn to 
compromise more often with the 
administration in order to achieve 
a greater number of resolutions." 
The Student Life Council (SLC) 
iself is cited by JOHN SALVESON 
as the basic issue in the current 
campaign to fill seats in that 
student legislative body. 
P"People have lost interest in · the SLC," Salveson stated. It 
should start doing something in· 
stead of being just a means ol 
expressing opinions." 
Salveson said that revamping 
the SLC to make it moredynamic is 
a major priority for his campaign. 
GOOD THING GOES ON! 
A very informal gathering of goo~ p~ople at the Campus Ministry Actlvllles Center, the little green house -corner of Bulla Rd. and Juniper (across from Grace Tower). 
Everyone welcome --Mass at 5:15 followed by supper ... Today and every Friday 
The COUL report, ·the alcohol, 
policy and the hall judicial board 
pol~cies are also important topics 
which Salveson feels the SLC 
should deal with. 
"The SLC should be the means 
by which the COUL report should 
be implemented," Salveson said 
"especially the Stanford-Keena~ 
proposaL" He feels that a ooed 
dorm should get underway and 
that the proposal would be a ..;.ay of 
doing so. 
Discussing the alcohol policy is 
another of Salveson's aims. He 
feels "the university's hands are 
tied" on the issue, but that it should 
be talked over. 
"The halls should have more 
power as far as discipline goes," 
Salveson suggested. He said that 
the hall judicial boards should be 
given more power because 
"there's no reason to run to the 
dean of students for everything." 
Salveson, a junior, has worked with the Student Government on the academic calendar rallies held last year , on the Indiana voter­registration campaign and has been a section leader in Alumni Hall. 
Off-Campus 
JOHN LYNCH, a senior and one of only two off-campus candidates for SLC feels that he top priority for the Council is to push the alcohol revision through. 
"I think the hall should decide," Lynch proposed, not only on the alcohol issue, but also on parietal restictions. 
Before considering parietals, however, Lynch feels that the sex ruling of last year should be revised. "The sex thing last year was a joke," Lynch stated. "I was frustrated and disgusted." He feels this revision is the second issue which should be discussed by the SLC. 
Lynch also feels that the judiicial boards should be looked into and revised, giving the halls more power. 
As far as coed dorms are concerned, Lynch feels that Notre Dame "should have one." He would not consider Stanford­Keenan a coed dorm, and does not see that there should be any problem at all with coed dorms. 
Lynch stated that he is mainly a "frustrated student" trying to get students to be more aware of Student Life Council and its potentials. "I would try to get the SLC revised," he concluded, "so that confidence can be restored in it." 

\1 \·. .., ~·--l···~~'~/;·: _,'(t·\·~·. ·~·,:~-.... ,. .• ·''. . , 
Friday, September 19, 197~5___~th:..:..=e~o:..::b:..:s=-e~rv-=--=e--=-r__--=-5 

SMC Nursing Dept. expanding 
by Marjorie Irr 
Staff Reporter 
The St. Mary's Department of 
Nursing has undergone a major 
expansion this fall. The three­
year-old department, St. Mary's 
moved this year from 
Madeleva to Havican Hall, the 
former campus grade school. 
"We did need to expand," said 
Mary Martucci, nursing 
department chairman. "We never 
did have a home and now we oc­
more than one third of the 
building," she said. 
Nursing Department 
received a Health, Education and 
grant this summer, 
amounting to $143,000. This has 
been a real asset and we can do a 
great deal with the money to ex­
pand," stated Martucci. 
She also noted that this is a "transitional period"for the junior 
nursing students, who leave the 
classroom for the clinic later this 
fall. 
Enthusiasm for facilities 
Martucci expressed enthusiasm over the new facilities in Havican Hall, including the audio-tutorial lab, the mock-up lab and the Nursing Library. 
"I'm really proud and very 
pleased with the audio-tutorial lab. 
We have sixteen fully equipped 
carrels where a student can follow 
her own program of learning," she 
said. 
"The mock-up lab is a lecture, 
demonstration and simulated 
hospital room. Here the students 
learn the theory, see it demon­
strated and then practice it," she 
added. 
"In the Nursing Library, we 
have two library holdings in­
cluding many volumes and jour­
nals. It's basically a reading and 
research room," Martucci noted. 
Nursing Curriculum 
Regarding the curriculum of the 
St. Mary's Nursing Dept., Mar­
tucci observed the importance of 
the liberal arts. "We begin with 
the heavy science base. The 
students also encounter sociology 
and psychology, which is 
especially useful in the psychiatric 
nursing unit." she said 
Comparing the SMC program to 
hospital-oriented two and thr~ 
year nursing programs, Martucci 
·················~~····························
Hearst Harrises :TODAy AT: ! 
down a street in the Missio11: ( ST A W BLOCKS SOUTH •
District. Misses Hearst and • JU FE . : Yoshimura were arrested at: .. · · ON EDDY STl• 
helpful and understanding," said added Teichen. Borst. In conclusion, all three students1 "Knowing this helps to build agreed that the nursing program confidence in ourselves, which is at St. Mary's and their futures in 
stated, "We are more geared to graduate school, supervisory and administrative nursing, while the RN programs are more geared to bedside nursing. There is not much upward movement without a degree."
In the upper division of study, 
the students cover five specific 
areas of nursing, in addition to the 
basics. The five areas are: 
Medical; Surgical, Nursing of Children, Maternity, Psychiatric 'and Community Health Nursing. 
Five areas of nursing In each area, there is one faculty member who has specialized in that aspect of nursing. Students will rotate through the various units every two weeks. · For the next three weeks, the juniors will spend Mondays and Fridays in class. Tuesdays through Thursdays, the "clinical days", will be spent in the audio-tutorial and mock-up labs. "The program is not easy," said 
Martucci. "There is a lot of work 
and you do have to discipline yourself. But the girls like working independently. It's satisfying and it's fun," she emphasized. 
"It's very exciting for all of us to be part of the first class to graduate from St. Mary's with a Bachelor of Science in Nursing," said Janet Thiroway of the junior 
class. "It's a totally new ex­
perience," she added. 
Cathy Borst, also a junior stated, "As it is a new program, the academic demands that the faculty makes upon us can sometimes be a bit overwhelming. 
·~~~~~~;:~~;f:~i~j
escorted from the courtroom, • she reached over to where Miss : 
Hearst sat at a defense table : and squeezed her hand. Then • she was led away to be turned : 
over to authorities in. Alameda • County, where she faces : 
charges of possession of ex-• plosives. : Before the hearing, FBI • agent Charles Bates, in charge: 
of the case from the start, said.: 
"This effectively puts an end to • 
everybody we know who was in : the SLA. He held out the possi-• bility of further arrests in the: 
case, however. • The Harrises were arrested: 
at 1:15 p.m. as they jogged• 
One junior who chose to remain •··i anonymous quipped, "The mock­up lab is an essential part of the • 
program. It gives us a chance to ...................-.~~........~.......-........~~...............~~........~.~~........~.~~.~. practice the basic techniques of 
nursing care on dununies -be they l~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~:l
the lab manequins or our fellow students of nursing!" 
Generally, the attitude ex­pressed by the student nurses was one of anticipation of a satisfying 'and rewarding year. 
"The people we encounter in our clinical experiences are really 
25~ 
REMEMBER NICKlES FOR THE : 
"LUNCH BUNCH" • 
lL lb hamburger $1.25 • : 
72 : 
NICKlES i 
EVERY FRIDAY : • . 
• 
FROM '). 7pm :• 
J -: 
DRAFT : • 
• 
so~ 7 & 7 : 
• 
, ASK ABOUT NICKlE'S : SUNDAY PARTIES " : 
• But it's really a growing ex­perience for the faculty as well. as the students." 
"At first it was difficult and a bit frustrating," Thiroway agreed. "But when you learn to discipline yourself and budget your time, things become easier," she added. 
"The faculty is very understand and cooperative in helping students in any way they can," said junior Linda Teichen. "This helps to alleviate many of the pressures encountered in the new 

program," she continued. Two sophmores in the nursing program admitted that they were satisfied, but were not yet involved enough in the program to reach any solid conclusions about it. One sophomore commented, "I think it is a well rounded program, but I don't think that the language requirement is necessary." She further noted that Medical Technology students (who also 
participate in off campus clinical • • • • • 0 • • • • 
work) -have no language requirt!ment. • Juniors discuss pro~ram 
• 

The juniors expressed en·-• thusiasm at the prospect of getting • involved int the practical aspects • of nursing. 
"After a six week period of • extensive and intensive in-• dependent study of basic nursing • 
techniques, we will begin our clinical work," said Teichen. • . "The program is really falling • 
1~to p~ace: No~ we can see ~e dtrecbon m whtch we are gom~ • and the ~oals we have to reach, • 
noted Thtroway. 
Borst cited the only real in-• convience of the clinical work is • transportation. "It can be a hassle as well as expensivt1," she said. • 
SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION PRESENTS 
PAPILLON 
STARRING 
STEVE DUSTIN McQUEEN HO~FMAN 
FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 1 9 and SATURDAV SEPTEMBER 20 

8 pm and 1 1 pm O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
ADMISSION $1.25 
11 A.M. to 2 A.M. 5 luncheon Items 
Changed Daily 

602 So. Walnut (FormeriJ lrvins) Pho• 232-2494 
the most important ingredient in nursing will be both challenging becoming a qualified nurse," _an'-'-d~re.;...w_a_r...;.din_·!....._&·--------., 
"CHINATOWN" 
STARRING JACK NICHOLSON & FAYE DUNAWAY ENGINEERING AUD TONITE AND SATURDAY 7-9:30-MIDNIGHT ADMISSION $1 
PATRON CARDS AVAILABLE 
NOW OPEN AT GENERAL STORE 
FEATURING THE LATEST IN JEANS AND TOPS. 
HOURS: 10-9 MON-~AT 12-5 SUNDAY START THE YEAR RIGHT 
IN A PAIR OF PATCHWORK JEANS 
1 6 21 
$o Bend Ave. (BEHIND LINEBACKER) 
Phone 233 -6867 
HOUSE SPECIALTY 
PRIME RIB 
Double Ca 
WED. ' TttUR., SPECIAL 
TURf & SURf 
• fiet 
$695 
• Lobster 
FRI. & SAT ''ALL You • SPECIAL FROG LE CAN EAT'' 
s.• ._ 6S~
F,_, F~ ~6 9 5 
• 
• • • • • • • • 
• 
• 
• • 
• • • • 
..._,_ -· 
2:35 p.m. · · •••·•~•••ee'eeeeeee'•-••••••••••••••............e..~lliiiiiiiiliiiliiil 

---------~---­
the observer Friday, September 19, 1975
6 
•
ND grade· averages on the r1se 


by Mary Pat Tarpey Staff Reporter 
The University cumulative and semester grade point averages have again risen bas~d o,n statistics from the Regtstrar s Office. This .is in keeping with a nation-wide rise in grades over the past ten to fifteen years. 
The University cumulative grade point average ending with the 1975 spring semester rose to 2.968, a .122 point increase over 1970 and a .409 increase since the spring of 1965. The Univers~ty spring semester grade pomt average, presently 3.076 climbed .004 points in the last five years and .356 points in the last ten. 
Although grades are still in­flating they are increasing at a much ~lower rate, and in some cases they have dropped slightly. In The Freshman Year of Studies, the median cumulative grade point average <GPA) has risen only .05 points in the past five years as opposed to .336 points the previo_us five years. Arts & Letters m­creased .16 points over the past five years as opposed to .207 the preceeding five. All colleges displayed similar results: Business Administration, 1965-1970 
the offenses and a report of the committee's findings and the * 
penalty assessed, are sent to the * academic dean of the student. This : material is then entered into his * 
increased .298 points, 197G-1975 
more knowledgeable. increased .218 points; Charles said, "There is a dif­ferent kind of student coming to
Engineering, 1965-1970 increased 
college. Notre Dame standards
.251 points, 197G-1975 increased .056 
have probably risen and com­
points. 
The rise in grades also began to level off for the 1975 semester GPA. In the case of the Colleges of Science and Business the spring 1975 semester grades are lower than in 1970. Business GPA's went from 2.962 to 2.846 a difference of .116 points. In the College of Science the semester grade point was 3.226 in 1970 and fell to 2.998 in 1975. 
The trend of grade inflation is not unique to Notre Dame. "The one problem is that it's a national phenomenon. It is not just at Notre Dame but at many institutions," stated Joseph C. Hogan, dean of engineering. 
A survey done by Time magazine last fall indicated that the average GPA at Stanford was 
3.5 or better. The survey also showed that the University of Pittsburgh's average grade five years ago was a "C" and last fall it was a "B". It also revealed that 42 per cent of all undergraduate spring term grades at Yale were 
··A''s. The national trend was attributed to pass-fail option, 
Honors Code binds 
by Peter Arndt If the student decides to appeal,
Staff Reporter he notified the Honesty Com­
mittee, who then sends all related 
Although many are not aware of material to the dean for review. it, the undergraduate and graduate The dean then decides whether or students of Notre Dame are under not the Committee's decision the jurisdiction of an Academic should be upheld. The student also Honesty Policy, approved last has the right to appear before him, Feburary by the Academic previous to his making a decision. Council. If the dean rules in favor of the 
student all charges are dropped. If 
The policy • proposed by the the committee's decision is upheld,
Committee on Academic Faculty ,
Affairs of the Board of Trustees, is the report of the committees 
findings are entered into the
directed to "sustain and protect student's file. academic honesty in student In 1964, iri response to a
work." 
referendum conducted by the 
According to the policy, if, in a student body, the Academic teacher's judgement, a student has Council adopted the Academic "violated academic integrity," he Honor Code. This composed of a 
must submit a report in writing to procedure whereby each un­the Department Honesty Com-dergraduate in the University mittee (the committee is com-would sign a statement pledging posed of members of the faculty "honesty in all ... academic work" appointed by the. de~arm~nt and that he would not tolerate chairman). A hearmg, m whtch "dishonesty in.. .fellow students." the teacher and student ~ay at-When a violation occurred, they tend, is then held to ~etgh the were passed on to the Honor evidence. ~he teache_r wtll present Council, composed entirely of reasons whtch lead hu~ to suspect. students, who determined proper that a student has vtolated . the penalties. The Council mem­code, and the student has the nght bership during 1968-69 school to respond. season resigned because they 
If the committee rules that the could not sit in judgement of fellow student has violated the Honor students. and because other Policy it will also recommend to students were "not disposed" to the t~acher an appropriate confront students breaking the penalty. The student then has the code. 
petition is getting stiffer."
teacher evaluations and graduate 
Presently the college of Arts &
school pressures. 
Letters has no committee looking
Dean Bernard Waldman, College 
into the problem. However,
of Science, added to the list of 
Charles said that the college made 
possible causes at Notre Dame in 
an attempt to call the problem to
particular. "In this college the 
the attention of the faculty
number of students who are in­
members. "I'm not in favor of
terested in going to medical 
overt grade level r~q1:1irements for
schools have increased. These 
faculty. Their grade distribution is 
students realize that entrance to 
their own business. They should be 
medical school is almost entirely 
free to distribute as they see fit.
governed by grade-point averages. 
However since grade inflation is a
These students know they have to 
serious problem, last year at­
make.goodgrades. They make it a 
tempts were made to call attention 
major goal. Therefore the GPA's 
to this by informing faculty
are going to rise. I think students 
members. This did make a dif­
are working harder, students are 
ference."
better students and are more in­
Charles warned, "Grade in­
tellectually motivated." 
flation affects students. It makes
"If a professor's grades are 
"A"s and "B"s hard to evaluate.
inflating or if they give higher 
As a result, graduate schools and
grades, it is due to graduate school 
other professors who try to 
pressures , etc ... " commented 
evaluate find them all in the same
Dean Hogan. 
Isabel Charles, dean of Arts and 
Letters gave somewhat different 
reasons for the situation. Charles 
doesn't believe that there is a great 
deal of proof that students are 
getting better although she agrees 
thlit 'students today are generally 
students 
Senate had a joint faculty-student committee created to examine the question of "academic honesty." The committee, chaired by Prof. Walter Nicgorski, released their report in May of 1971 stating that although they were in favor of a Student Honor System, it should not be revived for lack of interest and support. 
The Faculty Affairs Committee 
of the Board of Trustees then directed Fr. James Burtchaell ,
University Provost, to assemble a
Committee on Campus Honor to investigate into the issues of honor and honesty on campus. Prof. 
Edward Vasta chaired this committee, and published its report in October 1973. Burtchaell then asked a com.nittee of three faculty members to draft the proposal that "would properly sustain and protect academic honesty in student work." 
Burtchaell who proposed the policy to the Academic Council, feels that it is of great academic importance and that "honesty is an absolute necessity for intellectual work." He thinks that this new policy backs this premise because where previously, the decision of honesty was left arbitrarily up to the faculty member involved, now the question of honesty is deregated to an Honesty Com­mittee associated with the
** *
right to appeal. If the student In May of 1969, the Faculty department head. 
waives this right, a description of *********~ *"_.,.......,..,......,.********* * "'!
* · * 
fil . 
IF YOU W NT THE BEST : SPAGHETTI, PIZZA or SANDWICHES, THEN WHY NOT 
GET IT? YOU CAN AT: 
GIUSEPPE'S 
:
* 
* 
: : : 
l CATERING ~ SPECIALLy :TO THE 
WE CATER FOR
i ~g~:~NITY BUS TRIPS i
I 
NOW OPEN *t 
N 0 RTHER N INDIANS'S * 
LARGEST ;
~ 
LIQUOR STORE : ••••••••••••••••••• : 
KEG BEER ~ 
(IN STOCK) : 
: 
-AWAY GAMES -: * 
713 E. LASALLE 
PHONE: 259-0261 HOURS: so: BEND FREE MON-SAT 
category. This then putsemphasis on national tests which many students ·rind unfair. There is hardly any differentiation. The students will be suffering, it works to the students advantage." 
Dean Hogan had a similar view. "I'd like to see them stabilize. If the trend continues, grades will mean nothing. It will be difficult to evaluate students for graduate
·schools." 
Emil Hoffman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies stated, "Statistics don't show any great grade inflation in the freshman classes in the last couple of years. People sometimes confuse grade inflation with grade abuse in a particular course." 
Professor Edward Vasta Chairman of the English depart­ment stated he was not going to change his procedure of grading because of inflation, he added, "I will try to strictly observe the verbal descriptions in the student manual, an "A" is outstanding, a "B" means very good, etc ... " 

SPECIAL 10% DISCOUNT ON ALL MERCHANDISE TO NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 

ND AND SMC STUDENTS 
ONLY 
10% OFF ON ANYTHING 
IN THE STORE WITH ND OR SMC ID 
This Is An Everyday Special For Students 
JEWELERS 
~ 
Daily 9 'til 9 Sunday noon 'til 6 
'I 
PRIVATE PARTY ROO 
DELIVERY 9:30-MIDNIGHT ORTH VILLAGE MALL 
CARRY OUTS 233-0951 (with $15.00 minimum ~urchase) • 
...... '...·. . ' . ···~··.,.···~~""·~~~t':~!".~~...
J-,fjf•• ............ ~.·~'·'·";.·
' •.·~~"'' ..;;,i\:.·,: ~·~···t·•n~···fl 'll~'.· .·,•.,•h'N~··b:l!:b1.1'l:b':lf//{l~~."t~l.l./b'l/~ -b·~ • •• ........•.•.•.~.~....•:;•~~~~-~ l.,.!lll..:,+/.•lt f'.!f.f't.(!.'(.;;•. •
;·r\,._\"""". ~· \\fr\, -· rt r t'. t' ,. ,. ,._ • ....... ~ 4 .. , , ... , • " ~ • ~;--: ,t : 1' • .. • • • , , .. ,.. ., " • t ~ .. • • • • • a • • • • 

.y:· .• ; ·:··A"'.l::!~~,~ '·'"-~_:"! Ff'iday, September 19, 1975 the observer 

7 
Estate Planning Institute opens 
by Christie Herlihy specialization," according to cellent response to this conference, was, as Dean Link said, "a major businesses will have to con­
Sta rf Reporter Campfield. Campfield believes, "shows that in for us. This is a great thing for sistently set money aside for its 
The first annual Notre Dame "Specialization is relatively new lawyers recognize the need for Notre Dame to be able to get; we employees. Because of the Estate Planning Institute held to lawyers," he continued. specialization in the law and that couldn't have hoped for more." complexity of this law the IRS has Sept. 11 and 12 at the Center for "However, we are moving they must continually up-grade The speech topic was the Em­not yet been able to publish Continuing Education was a inexorably toward it as the their skills." ployee Retirement Income regulations necessary for carrying success, "unbelieveable for a first practitioner finds it increasingly Among the featured speakers Security Act <ERISA) passed in it out. Consequently lawyers and effort," according to David T. difficult to respond to the demands was Isidore Goodman, who for 47 1974 which addressed itself to the pension plan managers are left Link, dean of the law school. of a technocratic society." Modern years has been the principal abuses suffered by employees waiting for the required 
Not only was the campus the site law has become so complex spokesman for the Internal under existing pension plans. guidelines. of a major policy statement by the because of society's demand for Revenue Service on employee "The Studebaker debaucle was the "Mr. Goodman's remarks are Internal Revenue Service, but the increasing benefits and protections pension plans. "He does not speak leading example of corporate critical at this juncture in that he overwhelming attendance pointed from the government. The flood of until he wants to announce IRS abuse of individual pension suggests current IRS thinking," to the growing need for legal new legislation makes it in­policy," said Campfield. Good­rights," said Campfield. Campfiedl emphasized. specialization and capped Notre creasingly difficult for lawyers to man's speeches are collected and The Studebaker Company, Besides the ERISA legislation, Dame's prominence in the be well-versed in all aspects of the published by the Prentice-Hall located in South Bend, closed in the conference also dealt with an professional community. law. Pension and Profit-sharing Service 1963. Although the company of­increasingly important aspect of 
Attracting 368 participants from "We are moving towards an age and Commerce Clearing House, fered a pension plan, three to four t the law--death taxation. Because around the nation, the institute has which recognizes the need for the two major business law thousand employees found of the inflation in property values triggered the organization of lawyers to 'hold themselves out' to publishers who will distribute his themselves without benefits when an increasing number of taxpayers future legal conferences. "It will the public much like medical speech nationally. the company went out of business. face the prospect of paying federal be a base upon which to build other specialists do," Campfield em­Goodman's choosing Notre "It was not a misrepresentation estate tax. Currently the first programs as we attempt to ad­phasized. "You wouldn't go to a Dame as a platform from which to to employees," Campfield $60,000 of property passes tax free 
dress society's need for quality general practicioner for open heart make a major policy statement stressed. "The company expected at dei'th but this exemption level legal representation," said surgery. It should be the same was, as Dean Link said, "a major to pay benefits to retiring in­was established in 1942, before the Professor Regis Campfield, way With legal problems." in for us. This is a great thing for dividuals out of current operations. hiked inflationary pressure. director of the institute. An increasing number of state Notre Dame to be able to get; we It never set aside any money in a Accordingly estate planning is now 
The aim of the conference was to bar associations are requiring couldn't have hoped for more." savings accoutn. When operations important to a dramatically in· provide an opportunity for legal their members to take courses in Goodman's choosing Notre were discontinued there was creasing number of people. education, "to respond to society's specific aspects of the law before Dame as a platform from which to simply no money to pay the In addition to the educational demand for increasing legal renewing their licenses. The ex-make a major policy statement promised benefits." progress made, the conference 
The ERISA legislation of 1974 brought national prominence to the 
does not require that employers Notre Dame law school, Campfield 
provide pension plans but only that 
existing plans meet certain of the law school in the 
standards. Participating professional community." 
Co.m.munity Services to recruit .....: "It enhances the visibility 
for volunteers Sunday .:·································································.
• . 
By Lonnie Luna have adopted Dor-A-Lin Nursing volunteers are needed to coach and . CHICAGO BlACKHAWKS Home on Notre Dame Avenure. use the recess period wisely, he
Staff Reporter 
Volunteers will work one hour per added. .. vs. DALLAS HAWKS 
week visiting the elderly and Panl(born-LyonsOn Sunday evening, the Com­
Pangborn and ·Lyons have 
munity Services will visit each hall performing physical and manual adopted St. Patrick's, an older :.SAT. SEPT. 20th 7:30 p.M.
labor on the property. The halls
to recruit volunteers and interview parish set amidst the projects in NOTRE DAME ACC
will also attempt to supply
freshmen who desire to work in South Bend. The parish is
volunteers for very specific taskssome volunteer project. 
beginning to initiate a guitar mass
at Whitney Young Street"We are recruiting within a in planning
Academy. The Academy is an the stages of a PRICEScontext, attempting to cantact 
basketball progarm. Volunteers
slternative school in an urbaln
through the halls as many students Adults .......... $3.50 
will teach CCD, help to initiate the 
setting for former students, said
a s possible, who haven't alrady guitar mass, help with the Youths(l6 yrs. & under)
McTaggart.
volunteered their servoces through basketball program and work with also ND & SMC studentsalready-existing organizations," Sorin-Walsh 
the elderly through St. Vincent de 
said Brother Joe Me Taggart, Anhut explained sorin an Walsh .......... $2.00 
Paul. Stanford assistant director of Campus adopted Holy Cross parish, ~E; 
Stanford Hall has adopted Little
Ministry and advisor to Com­parish with the largest school m Tickets on sale at
Flower, a small parish without a
munity Services. South Bend. Volunteers will tutor 
grade school. Volunteers will ACC 9-5 MON.-Sat. . '•"Theat's precisly one of the seocnd and third graders in rading serve as coordinators for CCD Also Gate 3 ONE hour before •
•
main reasons why the Community and other subjects. Innovative <Continued on 
Services directors exist -to reach 
as many students as possible in the 
residence halls," stated Don 
Longano, Community Services 
director. 
"Each hall has adopted a parish 
or an agency to work with within 
the city," explained McTaggert. 
John Anhut, director of Parish 
Partnerships, wxplained that the 
following halls adopted the 
following parishes and agencies in 
South Bend: 
Fianner-LeMans 
Flanner and LeMans have 
adopted St. Joseph's parish, said 
Anhut. Volunteers will tutor the 
children in the areas of math, 
reading, art and kindergarten. 
The parish also needs coaches 
after school to coach the children 
in baseball, volleyball and other 
sports. 
BP +Holy Cross 
Kathy Wlaker, Community 
Services director for BP, ex­
plained these tow halls will be 
working with Clay Neighborhood 
Center, a few blocks from campus. 
This center is mainly for school 
children. The center needs 
volunteers in tutoring, sports 
recreation, music and guitar 
lessons, theater and drama and 
art. 
"These children need attention 
and organized activities," said 
Walker. "The Center is rady and 
willing to work with us." 
Fisher 
McTaggart explained Fisher will 
continue to work with Sr. Marita's 
Primary Day School in the areas of 
study groups and tutorinll. 
"The hall will sponsor a couple of 
programs within the hall bringing 
the kids onto the campus," adxed 
McTaggart. Volunteers are also 
needed to work in scouting ac­
tivities, especially with the 
retarded. 
Morrissey-Regina 
Longano said that these two halls 

------~~~~~~~~~~~~­

------~-----------------------------~ ---~­

Dpinian~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
The ObServer 
en independent student newspaper 
Slashing Jocks
Founded November 3, 1966 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Manager 
iiiiiiiiiiiiii l:hamas I r:~irauard
EDITORIAL BOAI\_D AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Execut•ve Editor; Pat Hanifin, Ed~toria_l E~itor; 
Economize was the key word at the conference of member NCAA 
Ken Girouard. News Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Ec' t~·; Mary Janca, St. Marys Edttor. 
schools in Chicago this summer. The time has come for college sports to 
Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports ~:;~:!nr; Tom O'Neil, Features Editor; 
balance its budget. In this mood of fiscal repsonsibility, here are a few 
Chris Smith, Photo Editor 
suggestions as to how collegiate athletic departments can tighten their 
Editori~lo: 181-8661 Nrwo: lB~l~·1.!..7!21s____B~u::;"::.:."~:;.:•:.:_-=.:_28::,:1:...,:~7_;_4;_;71--------1 
belts. 
Friday, September 19, 1975 
Due to the prohibitive cost of wooolen sweaters, all cheerleaders should be required to go topless. 
Specialty teams should be eliminated from collegiate football. Kick situation can be decided by captains shooting odds or evens. 
P.O. Box Q 
Eliminate jockstraps. The estimated savings would be approximately words. Oh, and excuse me if this $1.50 per player
Dr. Duggan's article is a bit brief, but it's emotional~ trauma. We are all The U .C.L.A. card section should be limited to one person. already 5:00 and I have to get frustrated rejects from Notre Woody Hayes should be required to bring his own yard markers to ready to hit the bars tonight. You Dame. I am slowly learning to games. see, I have a terrible handicap: accept my fate; here at SMC all we
'Lip Service' I'm a St. Mary's girl. can do is look on in jealousy and Reduce head coaching salaries to the federal minimum wage. hopes that if we keep trying, every Have collegiate football training tables consist of rice and tea meals.
We don't have time to study and 
Dear Editor: write papers ... especially semester, maybe, just maybe we'll Lay a mine field in the turf of West Point's Mitchee Stadium to get in Notre Dame. eliminate visiting teams traveling expenses.
With a dearth of quality me...imagine a sophmore and I leadership continually reasserting don't have a fiance from Notre Meanwhile, I have to think of Marching bands should be eliminated. However, we realize that a
itself, the NotreDame-st. Mary's Dame. I guess that my whole what lean do with my B.S. degree halfti'me is not complete without music. So we suggest that Vietnamese community had hoped for a little education thus far has been after I get out of here. If I'm lucky, refugees can be hired to sing Indochinese folk songs at the game's break. 
fresh air. However, it appears that wasted. It's a shame too, because I I'll be able to hang it above the This not only will minimize costs, it will also find thse homeless people ait won't be coming 'for at least five go to the ND library every night, stove in the kitchen of the Notre useful place in our society.
years.' and I get all dressed up in hopes Dame man that I marry. 
Travelingexpensescan be made a fraction of what they are today byIn accepting Dr. John Duggan as that I might meet some intelligent, Name withheld upon request having the players hitchhike to away games. The only exception will be 
President of Saint Mary's, we pre-med-pre-law student. I away games played at te University of Hawaii. The players must swim toaccept · one of the men directly sometimes feel that all the work I play the Rainbows.
responsible for the infamous put in as a science major is wasted, 
'Panty Fee' 
Vassar Yearbook scandal last because of course my only goal is Home attendance should be limited to sixty fans. 
year. For those unfamiliar, the to get married. 
Press box facilities should be converted to residence halls for graduate 
Proposal
Vassar administration refused to You know, as a freshman I was women. 
allow the student body to print completely faked out by St. twlve pictures deemed too obscene Mary's. I really thought, I know Dear Editor, Due to his administrative genius Father James Burtchaell should be in in their own yearbook. Amongst it's hard to believe. that my I read the article in Wednesday's charge of the scheduling for each team. This will insure the season these twelve were pictures of a courses were kind of difficult and Observer concerning the panty getting underway in the summer months eliminating the need for lights
pack of birth bontrol pills and a that Ihad to devote a lot of time to raid that occurred on Monday. In for night games. woman holding a cordless study. But the Notre Dame boys' this article, Dean Roemer said that vibrator. Hardly hard-core stereotype of us SMC chicks has students breaking into dorms These proposals have been mailed in a hermetically sealed jar to the
material! made me see the light. I guess you during a panty raid would be executive offices of the NCAA rules committee. We are hopeful our
Already Dr. Duggan, in recent know that all of the courses over photographed and their names proposals will be considered as seriously as the present rulings are now
interviews, has reaffirmed his here are 'JOCK' courses. I'm glad referred to local authorities. 
going into effect.
philosophy regarding student I found that out, because before I I think I have a better solution to responsibility. In spouting facile was told this, I was swamped with the vandalism problem. Ask platitudes such as 'I am committed chemistry and Calculus assign­yourself: Why do students break 
mantezuma!s~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
to enhancing the tremendous sense ments that seemed pretty hard at into dorms during a panty raid? of community that is here,' and 'I the time. It's because they refuse to come 
revenrJe 
would like to see an expanded I must say that we girls admire home empty handed. Now, if the social life,' he seems to reject the the Notre Dame guys, because administration were to take obvious-that the student body here we know that ANY course, no measures to insure that all the is mature enough to recognize lip matter which one or who teaches raiders get their fill of panties, 
A Million 
service for what it is. it, is 'rough' over there. We just then there would be no need to 
Come on Dr.Duggan, the times have to sit back in awe. I'm break into the dorms. I propose they are a~hangin. Leadership particularly impressed by boys that some sort of 'panty fee' be requires a concentration on the who condescend and take a course tacked onto the room and board 
Monkeys
future, not a pact with the past. over here for an easy 'A'. I don't bill (say about 5 dollars). Then 
Paul Kruse blame them except that their this money could be used to buy a prescence in the class makes it whole bunch of panties. These hard for us to pay attention. And panties would be distributed to all 
ray ramirez
Unique 
I truly felt sorry for the Notre women during registration. Dame guy who flunked out of my Subsequent details such as how There is an old saying: If a million monkeys pounded on amillion biology course; I guess it was so many panties to use per raid can typewriters for a million years, eventually they would write the Bible. I
Female easy he felt it was not worth his be worked based on the number of suppose only one who deals with game theory or odds could verify this, time. expected raids and the projected but the proposition has intrigued many people. Among the interested was Dear Editor: Oh-1 guess I have to go now, all percentage of student par­Dr. Carl Lobund of the Lobund labs here at Notre Dame. This summer It is with the greatest dif-my friends are here to pick me up. ticipation. Dr. Lobund started an experiment that he hoped would once and for all 
ficulty that I proceed to write this You may wonder why we all drink Alumni and parents may oppose prove or disprove this idea. letter. Please forgive the poor so much, well you see, we've been such a plan; however they might Ideally, one should have a million monkeys for this experiment, and a grammar and the misspelled trying to recover from a severe go along with the idea if the panties million years. Times being what they are, Dr. Lobund could only get six 
by Garry Trudeau 
DOONESBURY 
•01tf?. REVEAUPALL W A 
fJR£/WI/.£55 IIJUYWOOP PR£55 
[{)RPS. 'PRIJGS, SPUIFICAlLY AMPHETAMIN&S_ SfiATTm;[) OUR P!3RFE!:CT lOV~ I 5088&[) JIM&RJCA'5 fJIV~ 6tm6R. 
'\ &YPSY. II 
"ReACHUJ AT HIS HOMG IN Mk.ON, 6tU?b/A, meBLONP H&t,He&l 5IJPEI?57AI<. C/JNFIP&lJ IN AN 8&7W< lET &XCLIJSIV£ !NT&f?tll£1.t/, 'CH&R 7H~K£YS 
IA/JWT£[) 81//l:TREYNOUJS' COOL OFF/ 8ABY!'" 0 
\ 
were blue and gold and had the monkeys and a whole brace of finches that took shorthand. In order to get Notre Dame emblem. I believe around the time problem, the animals were put to work in shifts of eight that this solution that I have hours <though later he had the finches work in split shifts as the molt proposed would drastically cut came on). Once everything got set up. results came quickly. Two-and-a­back on the amount of vandalism half hours after the experiment was started, there appeared the rough and would serve to perpetuate draft of "Love Story", followed soon by three "Nancy Drew-Nurse" something that has become an books. The second day saw the completion of "Jaws" and an Intro to institution at Du Lac. Sociology text. After that, there seemed no stopping them--the monkeys pounded out a few issues of Sports Illustrated, the lyrics to "American Pie" and yesterday's Observer. Meanwhile the finches were content ot
Mark Sullivan 
produce stacks of free verse poetry and the major speeches of Warren G.
P.S. I hear that they're going to 
Harding.
start including throw-away jock 
Initially, everyone was pleased with the progress of the experiment,
straps in every issue of Sports 
but eventually there came a time when things seemed to be going in­
Illustrate circles. One day a monkey would pound out about half of "War and Peace", and the next day he'd do nothing but liner notes for Black Oak 
the observer 
Arkansas albums. Things were going like this all over the lab-­
Night Editor: Daniel Sanchez 
Hemingway to Mailer to Spillane, Tinkers to Evers to Chance... and if 
Assistant Night Editor: Mary 
that wasn't bad enough, after all that writing some of the animals had 
Janca 
taken up drinking. The monkeys (and a few of the finches) became heavy 
Layout: Mary Egan, Jim Stevens 
smokers . These habits left the experimental animals looking rather 
Day Editor: Maureen Flyyn, 
shabby, and they would go out of their way to embarass Dr. Lobund 
Margie lrr 
when he had visitors. They would type out disgusting words, make 
Copy reader: Mary Egan, Fred 
obscene noises and do unwholsesome things to their typewriters. 
Herbst 
This change in the animal's morale and lack of funds forced Dr. Lobund 
Editorials: John Amantea, Pat to cut the experiment short. Just in time, too. While cleaning up af­
Hanifin terwards, a janitor picked up a well-soiled piece of paper that had fallen 
to the floor. For the most part it was nothing more than gibberish,. but at
Features: Val Zurblls 
the very bottom of the paper, there it was: "In the beginning was the
Sports: Bill Brink, Tom Kruczek 
wxfobb and the norf glett ...". Well, they did get close. 
Typists: Howard Halle, Dave Rust, Mel Celeste, Candy 
JOKE:
Frankeelovegla 
A priest goes running up to the Pope: "Your holiness,
Compugraphic: Chip Spina 
I have some good news, and some bad news". 
Night Controller: Martha Fanning, 
"Alright", says the Pope, '·what's the good news?" 
AI Rutherford 
"Christ has returned." "That's great", the Pope says, "what's the bad news?" ad Layout: Tom Whelan "He's in Salt Lake City." 

Friday, September 19, 1975 
the observer 
Letters to a Lonely God 
the rituals of autumn 
Mardelle is one of those campus secretaries whom I know mostly as a warm voice on the telephone. I've seen so little of her in the past eight years that if I were to run into her in some really astonishing place, like in a lineup of the Hockettes or as a Biblical dancer in an all-faiths tabernacle, it would never occur to me to think: "My God, that's Mardelle up there in the pink tutu," or, "It's good-old Mardelle; I'd know those leotards anywhere." I'd never be quick to recognize any woman as Mardelle, until I had heard her voice, mostly because I never see Mardelle. But I get phone calls from her; and when I do, I know it's adventure time again. When it's Mardelle on the line, I say: "World, get out of my way; it's time for the chaplain to be off and travelling." 
Mardelle called last week. "Let Darby 
O'Gill make private arrangements with his life," she said. "You're going as chaplain to the football team for the Boston College game. Darby can't go." "I'll rent him out to a stud farm," I said, knowing that Darby wouldn't do as much for 
me, tf he had a chance to go to Boston. Not that _I would want. a holiday on a stud farm; bu_t m honesty, tt occurred to me that I mtght be as useful as a kennel master as I would be as a Schweitzer to the locker room. My finest muscles as an athlete were developed on the challenger's side of a Chinese checker board; and though I un­derstood I was needed only to pray for the team. not make their touchdowns, I thought that the least their chaplain should know was whether the game is played with a net and a racket. 
But Mardelle was pretty firm. "It's Schaeffer Stadium. for you, Fr. Griffin, at the side of the Fighting Irish·" I knew what it meant to be in love with a voice. I knew what it was like to have as a friend a priest who has arranged something pretty nice. 
The last time I went to a football game, there was a drunk sitting next to me, cheering for the Mishawaka fire depart­nwnt. My leg was in a cast, my arm was in a sling, from a minor skirmish I had had with dumsiness. It was a bitter, cold November afternoon, and we were playing some Protestants who spoke disrespectfully of the Pope. The score was something like ninety-nine to nothing, in favor of the Vutican. That was ten years ago, and I huven't been to a game since. Needless to say, thrilled as I was to go to Boston with the team. I wasn't prepared to open myself up to football as a semi-religious ex­perience. But, hate me for saying it if you will, the B.C. game turned out to be something like a semi-religious experience. Afterwards, I felt like an agnostic who has attended Mass; and after the service, finds himself reciting the Creed. . I don't remember whe~her Heming~ay 
ever wrote about football, but he admtred 
.................................................................................... 
: designed and edited a prayerbook for Notre :Dame students, entitled Day by Day. 
: Day by Day is the first book of its kind to : be published here at Notre Dame in a :.number of years. As Fr. Hesburgh 
tv week preview 
by tom o 'neil 
:1reminices in the book's introduction, the last • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • •• • •• • • •• • •• • • • •••• ••••••• •••••••••••••••• ,. •••!prayerbook was some~hing of a campus 
This week, except for sports and a single motion picture, promises to be a disap­pointing one for television viewers. 
Movies 
The movie is Serpico (1973; directed by the man who did "Murder on the Orient I<:xpress"--Sidney Lumet>, a sophisticated and well-acted film about Frank Serpico and "an honest cop's crusade against t·orruption" in the NYPD, to be aired Sunday at B:OO on 28. Serpico is played by AI l'acino, of Godfather fame, <and he received an Oscar nomination for this performance), but the movie is over-long Yet with all the deletions the censors will make to trim it, unfortunately, for family entertainment <they had a butcher's holiday with Cabaret last Sundayl it should be short et10ugh to flash between commercials, and no great threat to study-time. Try, however, to catch the salvaged scenes if you missed it at the bijou. It should resemble something of the original, and be worth the lime you sacrifice. 
The other movies offered are not worth the sacrifice. Thev include: The Stone Killer. Conrack. There's a Girl in My Soup and Death Scream. Your for amusement can be spent more constructively reading the c·nmids on the office-window at the campus ministry office. 
reverend robert griffin
the ritualistic sports, like fishing and bull­fighting; sports that involve the use of , proper skills and techniques, if you don't want to be destroyed by what you are doing. For Hemingway, there was a nada, a nothingness, confronting man, instead of the grace that a religious man feels. A man has only his own strength, and his own courage, to rely on. If order is to be found in a meaningless universe, a man has to impose thatorder;awayofdoingitwasthroughthe ritual sports: There was a right way and many wrong ways of catching a fish or killing a bull. If you did it well, with dignity and courage, though you might get badly battered, you were a kind of hero; even, as in the case of Santiago, the old man of the sea, you were a kind of secular Christ, and you, by being pretty good, defeated the nada, the nothingness. Sometimes there was a brotherhood you felt with other creatures, but you didn't rely on outside help. A bullfighter might pray for the Virgin's aid; but he prayed with restraint. A bull-fighter who prayed too much for heaven's help showed that he was really a 
coward. This, at least, is how I now remember Hemingway's code, but it's been a long .time since I read him. I hope the freshmen won't quote me in their term papers. 
1 think Hemingway would have ap­predated the Notre Dame team on Monday evening. From the first moment of the Sunday practice until the final moment in the dressing room on Monday, when the final scratch was mercurochromed, you could feel the discipline underlying ran­domness, the order that seemed a ritual ­and all of it was a ritual: the travel, the meals, the conversations, the warm-ups, and certainly, the game itself. There are techniques and skills indispensable to football, 1 guess, if you are going to win the game and avoid being physically destroyed. But in Boston, all of it was done with an t-ase and casual grace that hid the hard work, as when dancers are choreographed to perform the ballet. 
({cligion, of course, is a part of the football liturgy; Mass was said and prayers were offered; in the dressing room, a player or coach might kneel down and ask the priest for his blessing. It was a reverent wor­ship, and the blessings were asked against accidents that skills cannot be trained against. The priest knew he was blessing courage and poise and hard work and a hope of victory that superb form and conditioning have a right to expect. The Mass, the prayers, the blessings seemed as terse and to the point as a final score with with no sense ofsentimentalityor wasted gesture, so that when the game was over and won, the priest who said the Mass felt it was his victory as much as the team's. What is more, by God, he felt he was part uf the 
, team, and as necessary to the touchdowns 
Sports 
Nl<'L is back in full force, (and if the disagreements are soon settled the games will be played as scheduled.) The best of the games this week will be between the Miami Dolphins and the Oakland Raiders on Monday Night Football (8:00, 28). The Haiders beat the Dolphins in the play-off game last season 28-26, so Monday's match will be full of drama. The Browns and the Bengals meet Sunday at noon on Channel16, while the Giants and the Eagles are on channel 22. The Rams-Cowboys game will follow the Giants and Eagles match. 
Finally, international club-swinging for the Ryder Cup can be seen on Sunday on 28 at 2:30, and Missouri will meet Illinois Satuday at 2:45, also on 28. 
Specials 
Fred Wiseman's documentary on Welfare will be aired on 34. Wednesday, at 8, and Macbeth with Eric Porter and Janet Suzman (of "Nicholas and Alexan­dra") can be seen on Thursday at 8 on PBS. 
And for anyone who actually cares Barbara Walters will be in Europe this week. visiting "The Royal Lovers" during her 90­monute special for NBC on Sept. 25th. And worse yet, Rona Barret is "At Home with t he Hollywood Stars" again on National television <Sept. 25th>. We suggest she tak•' up residence instead somewhera f'lse, p;-•ferrable in LaFayette. Indiana. 
as the kids in the padded suits. 
There has always been, for me, a beauty surrounding Notre Dame and her people so that if one had only this experience, with neither hope of heaven nor expectation of glory, it would be enough, as much of goodness and beauty as a man inheriting the earth would really need. Now, for me, the football experience is, in a different way, from before, part of that beauty. I do not think I shall forget the two days in Sep­tember in an Irish town: being on the field, under the lights, at game-time; the meals shared with the gentlemen, the really great gentlemen, who give such class to the Notre Dame game: the coaches, the doctors, the trainers, the managers, the office per­sonnel; the quiet, thoughtful young men dressing for the game, tense and sweating at half-time, slapping each other on the back as part of the language of congratulations and encouragement for plays well made or challenges about to be faced; the calm, sensible words of the coaches in the dressing rooms and the instructions of the head coach at half-time; the final Hail Mary after the 
game was over; the ride back to the Marriott, when judging from the con­versations and the appetites, life seemed to have resumed rhythms once again. 
Beneath the pleasant pageantry, I had a sense of sharing in one of those fundamental human experiences, where the primal energies have been channelled into sym­bolic action that gives a dignity to the suf­fering and fight. The world is out there, waiting to defeat you; because you are not alone in a hostile universe, you ritualize the battle. The nameless forces seem arrayed against you on a single field, but you face it as a team trained in the strategems of victory. But the enemy is a team of decent lads like yourself, and you admire and respect them, even while overcoming them. Keeping their decencies and yours intact, you struggle against them as stand-ins for principalities and powers. 
In the end, of course, it is only a game, and 
'day by day' 
Prayer is an institution. Since childhood we have been told that it is something we all should do as a matter of habit. Yet there is no set pattern, for forms of prayer are as varied as the personalities employing them. Conversing with God through prayer is often referred to by college students as asource 9f gui~ance during especially diFrfficult study penods. Recognizing. ~is, . Thomas McNally and Dr. Wilham Story have 
institution, as it could be found in every chaplain's office and every chapel. Whether Day By Day achieves such a status depends on the willingness of students to pay its high price ($2.45 for a small paperback) and the effectiveness of its sometimes overly "relevant" themes. 
This ambitious project is, on the whole, a pleasant mixture of old and new. It contains both traditional prayers such as Psalm 23 (The Lord is my shepherd ... ) and newer prayers many of which have been written by Notre Dame students and Faculty. Day by Day also includes practical information for Catholic students about the new rite of confession, the complete set of the Mysteries of the Rosary, and the Way of the Cross. 
What is clear about Day by Day is that it was not written to overwhelm its readers with lucid terminology or powerful premonitions of God's omnipotence. On the contrary, the prayers are readable and reflect a personal approach to man's relationship to God. The choice o(Day by Day as its title is a bit more than a throw­back to the tremendously popular musical "Godspell"-which would bave been a good idea in itself. Instead, it reflects the current notion of daily conversational prayer, which is not limited to Sundays or to times of great emotional strain. 
The prayers in Day by Day are organized 
into chapters bearing themes such as 1 don't know whether football players ever 
elevate their Armageddons to the cosmic 
level. But for a little while, on September 
fifteenth, a football game seemed, as the 
bull fights and fishing in Hemingway do, 
like one of the rituals of courage that affirm 
the dignity of. being human. 
As Chesterton wrote in a poem on Notre 
Dame football, in images contrasting it to 
the games in the pagan ampitheatre: 
.............................................................................. 
And I saw them shock the whirlwind 
Of the world of dust and dazzle: 
And thrice they stamped, a thunderclap; 
ilfld 
thrice the sand-wheel swirled; 
And thrice they cried like thunder 
On Our Lady of the Victories, 
The Mother of the Master of the Masterers 
of the world 
Queen of Death and Life undying 
Those about to live salute thee. 
......................... -............................. -..................... 
On Monday evening after the game, as I was following the team off the field, a nine year old boy called me over to the stands; handing me a football -his own football ­he asked me to sign it. My autograph didn't do much for that football; eventually, the boy will wonder why he bothered with a priest's signature rather than the captain's. But, for a while, I was identified with greatness. As rector emeritus of Keenan, I have often been associated with greatness at Notre Dame, and Mardelle didn't launch me as the Glee Club chaplain without some of their greatness rubbing off. But I've been a football hero before in anybody's eyes. It makes me feel grateful for nine year old boys; it also makes me thankful for Rockne. 
And remember, Mardelle: Darby and I never said we didn't love you. Darby almost said he didn't love you though, because you wouldn't let him go to Boston. 
by dan sanchez 
"Student Life", and "Reconciliation". The modern prayers are written in "today's language." (a Ia Notre Dame's Campus Ministry). The traditional prayers remain close to their original form, with only a few updated terms. Dividing them into themes, allows the reader to quickly find a prayer to fit any circumstance. This is again a reflection of the general idea of a personal prayer relationship with God. 
One can find just about every possible religious outlook in Day by Day. Relevence aside, the most appealing part of the book is the reintroduction of traditional prayers such as the Angelus and the old Apostle's Creed. To sentimentalists, these prayers remind one of simpler times when religion was a little less turbulent. Yet the newer prayers such as "For Love and Service" and "For My Family", are appealing in a different manner. Their simple ter­minology and clear intentions are easy to relate to. The most touching, "For My Family," best exemplifies what most students feel, at least inwardly, about home and loved ones. 
Giving a prayerbook a critical review is difficult, because prayer is not an •Jbjective exercise, and because a prayerbook, regardless of how well it is written or edited, is not intended for literary satisfaction. Therefore, beyond Day by Day's literary drawbacks: its over-use of "relevant" terminology, its often distracting tendency to stray from se( themes and its tone, which left the impression that at least some of the prayers belonged in the Juggler rather than in Day by Day, the prayerbook is good. The prayers are for the most part warm and personal; in short, a far cry from the days of the Baltimore Catechism. 
In a spiritual sense, Day by Day fills a 
· real need. As Fr. McNally points out in the book's introduction, "Prayer is never easy, it involves an outlay of time which you have in scarce supply. But somehow, the efforts, the pain, the struggle, all seem wor­thwhile." Day by Day is an attractive and stimulating pattern of prayer to employ, free from the· pain and anguish of boredom, that many see as a requisite of religion. 

--------------------------~---­
10 the observer Friday, September 19, 1975 

'Based on Wall Street Journal story 
Most-used buildings on campus listed 
------~~=:~,~-=~-==-------------------------~------...I 
I
THE 
I
PAN PIZZA I 
I
PARLOR I I 
OFFERS YOU A GREAT WINNING I 
I
COMBINATION THIS WEEKEND 
I 
I
-CELEBRATE THE IRISH VICTORY I 
I
OVER PURDUE 
I 
I
WITH IIJAUTHENTIC ITALlAN I DEEP DISH PIZZA I 
I­
t{ 
The Largest And Most Delicious Pizza In The Midwest I 
By Gregg Bangs Senior Staff Reporter 
The typical incoming freshman 
· Notre Dame is regarded as a 
tther easy student to stereotype.1e (she) usually comes from a
ltholic or upper-middle class lbll·c h1'gh school in which he was ·1t only an excellent student, but 
•avi'ly involved in ex­
· 
acurrl·cular activities such as •orts, publications and student Jvernment. 
One reason Why they ml.ght have ''•eked Notre Dame I's the excellent cl.li.ti"es offered at the du lac . ·'mpus. Many a sought-after-high
' 
~hool applicant has heard Notre l ·arne underwent an extensive . Jilding program under the aegis 1 President Theodore Hesburgh. 
1e new buildings are everywhere­
···om the twin • dormitories of 
Janner and Grace, tohhye new 
··:>St office by Notre Dame Avenue. 
:-lowever, an admissions officer 
ill point out, the new additions 
tix in with the older buildings to 
I -esent a very resourceful and 
t •Cturesque campus. 
Very true, the buildings are quite :mdsome and the facilities are, •ost of the time, excellent, but · <JW often does the average Notre 
•arne student take advantage of c,ese facilities'? In a randomly ~lee ted telephone survey, : .udents living on-campus were >ked how often they used certain .cilities. These included the thletic and Convocation Center o\.CC), Stepan Center, the Rockne enter <Rock), the Memorial ibrary, LaFortune Student enter, Sacred Heart Church, the enter for Continuing Education ::CE), the Tennis Courts, the )WDstairs of LaFortune which Jeludes Darby's Place, and the 
azz_. and the Computer and Math 
THE PIZZA THE WORLD AWAITED 
!! SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER !! GET AN 8 PACK OF 16oz 7-UP OR 
Center. The results not only show a building is used, but present a picture of the average Notre Dame student <granting that a random survey can do such things) 
A Wall Street Journal feature D t d
story on Notre arne repor e up 
t0 75 percent °f the Undergraduates
th l'b
can be found m · e 1 rary on anygiven week night. According to
th" 84 t f th
IS survey, percen o e 
l.b
students use the I rary once or more a week : once or more a week, 84 percent; onee or more a 
month ' 8 percen t ; once or more a semester, 4 percent ; never, 4 t
percen · In fact, this building is used more than any other in the survey· Ninety-six percent of the students use the library; most of them on a regular basis. Interestingly enough, all four percent of the students who don't use it are sophomores. Most of the students who an­
swered in the one or more times a week category go more than five times a week. A typical response
was offered by a junior from Flanner: "The library-1 live in it. In fact, next to my dorm, I'm in there more than any other place on this campus." 

The library also has the highest I 0 STUDENT percentage of people going there at 1 Q.. least once a week. A surprising 1 ::::» 
DISCOUNT
second in this category is the 1 0 LaFortune Student Center (ex-1 U eluding the Huddle and the I 
Pier 11mpo1•tsdownstairs). 52 percent said they ~ use the building in one capacity or 1 :I: another. This is surprising 1 l­because many students have I A. recently criticized the building for I ::::; not being functional for students. 11 U Most students said they either: 1 went to the Ombudsman service, 1 bought tickets, or "just lounged n 
around in the lobby." ••-----------·-•• 
LaFortune: once or more a week, 52 percent; once or more a month, 16 percent; once or more a 
16
semester, 16 poercent; never, percent. k
Stepan: once or more a wee , 12 percent; once or more a month, 48 percent; once or more a semester, 32 percent;. never.. 8 percent. 
.
Along with the ACC, Stepan Center turned out to be the second-most used building on-campus . 
d f
Although it is not use that o ten on 
a weekly basis, almost half of those questioned use Stepan at least once a month. This could be attributed to the fall football pep rallies and the Mardi Gras and An Tostal events, both of which take place second semester. All of the twelve percent who use it once a week or more are heavily involved in in­trahall sports--a primary function of Stepan. 
,..•.a~~~·~~···~···~~-~llllll!~•~~~~iii!!!!!ii~~·-!!!!!!!~~~·~~-~~~~~~~·-~-.. 
I 

I Z 
I
Is As Close As Your Phone 
I 
I
FOR 
FREE DELIVERY I I 
I 
The ACC, besides being the second most used building on the survey, also has the third highest percentage of people frequenting it on a once or more a week basis. 
ACC: once or more a week, 40 percent; once or more a month, 44 percent; once or more a semester, 8 percent; never, 8 percent. 
Rock: once or more a week, 24 percent; once or more a month, 52 percent; once or more a semester_, 8 percent; never, 16 percent. 
Tennis Courts: once or more a week, 20 percent; once or more a month, 20 percent; once or more a semester, 8 percent; never, 52 percent. 
It should be noted that most of the students who use the ACC are from the North Quad dormitories, whereas most of the students from the South Quad use the Rock. Although the ACC has more people using it on a week to week basis, :he Rock gets a larger percentage of the more infrequent athletes. 
Although one can always see a 
With presentation of Student 10 Card 
n 
this coupon entitles bearer to 
2Qo/o ,.. 
off 
Limit 1 coupon per customer Offer good until September 30, 1975 
waiting line at the tennis courts, it is surprising to find only forty­eight percent of the students make use of the newly-installed all­weather surfaces. Maybe the tennis boom that is sweeping the country is just reaching Notre Dame's freshman and sophomore classes, for 0 percent of the seniors questioned use the tennis courts. Almost all of the students said they play just on weekends. 
60 percent said they use Sacred Heart Church, but even this sur­prisingly large figure is deceiving. Only 12 percent attend on a once-a­week basis and the other 48 percent is divided equally between the once-a-month and once-a-semester category. 
Sacred Heart: once a week or more, 12 percent; once a month or more, 24 percent; once a semester or more, 24 percent; never, 40 percent. 
There are other interesting developments stemming from this building. c t" d
( on mue on page 12) 

PEPSI FOR ONLY $1. CALL I 
I OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK I
277 • 1221 or 277. 1222 
SUN-THURS 5-1 am
I 
I
I ANYWHERE ON OR OFF-CAMPUS I
FRI-SAT
, I ::::--.-.-.-;x;.:..;.·.;,;.-.;.;;,;.___________________..J 
~·-···--~-­
-----~~----­
---~~-~-------~~ 
In Administration building 
Hall Marc.bikeregistration office open 

by Joe Toddy & Found is quite simple. If you 
A University-wide office has lose something, come t.n the office been established to handle Lost & in the Administration BUilding and Found, bicycle registration and the fill out a card identifying the ar­coordination of Hall Marc 
ticle. When the lost article is program. This office is located in 
returned the office will contact room 109 of the Administration you. If you find something, either Building. 
bring it directly to room 109 or drop Office hours will be from 8 a.m. it off at a pick-up station. A llist of to 8 p.m. Monday through Friday pick-up stations will be published 
and 11 a.m. until1 p.m. on football next week. 
Saturdays. The office will be Although it is not required under staffed during the day by Mrs. Indiana State Law, bicycle June Urbanski and during the registration is still one of the best evenings and Saturdays by deterrents against bicycle thefts. students Bill Brewka and Schaefer Registration costs one dollar and is good for the following four years.
O'Neill. The procedure involving the Lost By registering bicycle you are
a 
Indiana obscenity laws to be enforced on campus 
by Ji~ YVinters Staff Reporter 
Pronography "trivializes" both sex and society and Indiana's new obscenity laws should be vigorously enforced, Notre Dame Law Professor Robert Rodes told the Conference on Obscenity and Community Standards Thursday night. 
"A ~reat deal of the 
trivialization of society these days is attributable to the trivialization of sex," Rodes declared. The professor added that American communities, including South Bend, are "committed to certain traditional sexual standards," and those who reject those standards should not be entitled to fu11 freedom of sexual expression. 
"If our society is not neutral between sexual values, our law need not be," said Rodes. 
The Indiana General Assembly passed two new ·obscenity laws earlier this year. Public Law 341 bans the dissemination of "ob­scene matters and performances," and Public Law 342 further restricts the materials which minors may legally be provided. 
Rodes believes both statut~ conform to a 1973 U.S. Supreme Court decision on obscenity, which requires that pornography laws be specific, conform to "con-
A cease-fire in 
Lebanon called 
Hy BOLGER JENSEN Associated Press YVriter 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (APl -A cease-fire was proclaimed Thursday between warring Christians and Moslems, but gunfire and explosions shook Beirut after nightfall. 
Lebanese residents said the truce was being observed in some suburban combat zones and ignored in others, with the tempo of fighting picking up at 
dark. 
A government announcement said all sides agreed to cease fire at 4 p.m. -11 a.m. EDT. Beirut Radio said an afternoon lull marked a "tangible im­provement in the security situ­ation," but later broadcasts said the truce was "not com­
plete." 
A joint cease-fire commission of Christians, Moslems,. Pale­stinian guerrillas and Lebanese security commanders met into the evening to discuss enforcing the cease-fire. But some of the combatants expressed doubt about its effectiveness. 
A spokesman for the right­wing Phalange party, which headed Christian factions in the conflict against Moslems and leftists, said: "YVe agreed to the cease-fire reluctantly ... only after a personal pledge from Premier Rashid Karami that the other side would stop shooting also." 
The Phalangist added: "I wonder how long it will last. We have agreed to many cease­fires before but the other side has always broken them with 
ag~ression." 
~ ilV, c: ' 1/ ,I • ,.· , -'' 
\~'''' ... ~,.,~ ..~.:·.~··· 
temporary community stan­dards," and not restrict material with any "serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value." Vigorous enforcement of the In­diana Laws, says Rodes, would make it difficult for minors to gain access to adult film and magazines, and "such fare would probably be more innocuous than it 
is now." The professor vigorously supports such enforcement. 
"Long experience has indicated that those who choose to be libertines need no help from­society," Rodes declared. "Those who choose to be chaste need all the help they can get." 
Prof. Rodes, the ·principal speaker on the second night of the Obscenity Conference,wasfollowed by Associate Prof. Stanley Hauerwas of Notre Dame's theology department. Hauerwas told the audience of 75 in the Center for Continuing Education that if the logic of Rodes' argument is followe d to its logical conclusion, "we should make premarital in­terrnurse aaainst the Jaw." 
"It is," countered Rodes 
Hauerwas also said that in his 
native South, books were censored 
because of their Socialist or other 
political content. "Rather than 
have some good work censored 
which should not be," said 
Hauerwas, "we may have to allow 
some works which we abhor." 
Prof Michael Crowe of the Gnral 
Program of Liberal Studies was 
Thursday night's final speaker. 
Crowe called Rodes' comments 
"rich in insight, penetrating, and 
valuable," but added that the 
history of obscenity laws causes 
him to doubt that they can be made 
enforceable. 
Tonight, IUSB Chancellor Lestor 
Wolfl!on and others will address 
the conference, which will continue 
through Saturday. 
immediately placed in the nationwide Computer Guard program, Arthur Pears, director of the Notre Dame Security depart­ment said. He added that "a great number of bicycles had ben stolen already this year with only a few returned. Last year, with the use of the Computer Guard, a greater portion of stolen bikes were identified by the Security Department 
The student security office is also involved in Hall Marc. This operation involves the marking of student's personal possessions with diamond-tipped pens. Details of this program will be given to Hall presidents next week. 
Off-Campus students may pick up one of these pens with a deposit of six dollars starting Monday, September 29, in room 109 of the Administration Building. 
5 per cent ceiling set on raises 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate voted today to uphold President Ford's recommenda­tion that a federal pay raise due next month be limited to 5 per cent. 
The vote was 53 to 39 with two senators voting present. 
The House still could reject the Ford recommendation that the scheduled pay raise be cut from 8.66 per cent to 5 per cent. If it does reject the limi­tation, the pay increase would revert to the 8.66 figure and would automatically go into ef­fect on Oct. 1. 
Ford had recommended the 5 per cent limit to help fight in­flation and to hold down a fed­eral deficit -'ilready projected at 

Permanent Waving 
The ·•trick" in permanent 

~--~ -----~ -----~~--~---~ -~ -~~~---~-~­

Friday, September 19, 1975 the obsetver 1 1 1 

What's that crane doing next to plainedthat the metal breeching the power plant and water tower? on the roof of the plant Is being Ponder no more. A represen­replaced. tative of the power plant ex-(Photo by Tom Lose) 
l
I j 
1 
I I 
•
•j 
l 
j l 
~ 
4 
I l 
j 
I I I l j 
I 
l 
STUDENT 
REPS WANTED 
EARN BIG COMMISSIONS SELLING STEREO EQUIPMENT, TV'S ETC. AT BIG DISCOUNTS ON YOUR CAMPUS. WRITE FOR MORE INFORMATION) 
SI:ND CHfCK OR MONfY OIIDU I'!.US S1.CIO HANDLING DIRfCTLY TO: 
STUDENT DISCOUNT CORP. 
DEPT. 
52
P.O. BOX 113 SOUTH ORANGE, N.J. 07079 
. ·--.... 
waving is deciding on the degree of rurl you need for your hairstyle. 
Whether you want curls, long lasting bounce, a casual ;md flowing body wave, or any of the variatims in between, success is guaranteed if you make your wishes clear to your stylist. 
The prope-permanent will work for you to make your favorite hairsty Ie easier to achieve and mairtain than you ever dreamed possible. 
The stylists at Vivian's will 
spend time with you to 
determine exactly what your 
needs are to assure a perfect 
result. 
Sponsort-d by 
~VIVIAN's 
'IIAIH BESIGN STUDIO 
203 N. MICHIGAN Ph. 232-2194 
more than $60 billion this year. The difference between the 
8.66 per cent and 5 per cent fig­ures is about $1.6 billion. 
The Senate had allowedtwo hours for debate before voting down a resolution that would have refused Ford's proposed limitation. Either chamber has the power to return the pay raise to its recommended 8.66 
per cent. 
HERE HE IS NOW THAT WE NEED HIMI 
"'Harry' is not only afond remembrance of afiery char­acter, it is acrash course in one segment of history for the younger generation whose lives were never directly affected by the man. And more importantly, it is amemorable evening of the theatre:· 
-Edwa., Dally Variety 
"k' s fun to see important men in high places drop their pants'.' 
-Mike Steele. Minneapolis Tnbune 

'Bif£ ~llllgW presenls 
.JAMES WHITMORE 
as Harry S. Truman in 
GIVE'EM HELL,HARRY! 
.o ~,_,.,V"O"nDN RCLEA•eo •r ORIGINAL SOUNDTRACK NOW AVAILABLE 
.,.., .. .,.., .,.......,.,,._ ............._.....,. Technicolor" ON UNIT[O ARTISTS RECORDS ANO TAPES 
NOW ON THE SCREEN...Captured lor lbe cameras......... mchanged...unedited... exactly as it was IJ"esenled oo stage. SHOWING EXCLUSIVELY AT PLITT THEATRES 
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, September 24, 25, 26 
Reserved Performances • 3 Days Only • 2:15, 7:00 and 9:15 p.m. 
In Ch1ugoland It these usv IO·ruch showplace< Oownlown MICHAEL TODD BERWYN • CORONET • GRANADA MERCURY • OAKBROOK • RIVER OAKS WILL ROGERS • WOODFIELD And in llhno•s and Norlhrrn lnd•ana GRAND ALTON • PARAMOUNT AURORA • CROCKER ELGIN • HillCREST Nr. JOLIET PARAMOUNT KANKAKEE • PALACE PEORIA TIMES ROCKFORD ACADEMY WAUKEGAN STAH FREEPORT • WILDEY EDWARDSVILLE 
MAROUEnE MICHIGAN CITY SCOTTSOAll SOUTH BEND 

lltl(lS PURCHAS!O IN AO~ANC! ONL f 
$3.50 
From 8 p.m WEDNESDAY. SEPT. 17 
*** 
COME ON, WELCOME THE WHISTLE STOP TRAIN and JAMES WHITMORE, in Person UNION STATION-210 S. Canal 
Departing 10:30 p m for INDEPENDENCE. MO 



------~ ---~--~-----------~------~---------­
12 the observer Friday, September 19, 1975 
Most frequented halls on campus listed 
<Continued from page 10) have math classes or pre-meds reasons the 40 percent minority only in good weather. Stepan Of all the conclusions that can be Out of the forty percent who have to use the computers. goes there. Twenty percent of the Center will be the scene of pep drawn from this survey, perhaps
who don't use Sacred Heart, 90 C&M: once a week or more, 28 people questioned have never been rallies and dances and he can the information about Sacr.ed percent of them don't go to mass at percent; once a month or more, 24 there and half of those cid not know always visit the Nass once every Heart is the most interesting. For all. The 24 percent who go once a percent; once a semester or more, where it was. three weeks or so. Freshmen and a school that prides itself in its
8 percent; never, 40 percent. Although it is not a separate
semester are not much better, for Computer nuts might hit the C&M Christian character, it is strange to 
all of them admit the only timethey CCE: once a week or more, 8 building per se, the downstairs of center, but that's it. The CCE see so many of its students shy go to church is to attend Christmas percent; once a month or more, 8 LaFortune has to be considered might as well be in Nevada. He'll away from the centerpiece of Notre or Easter masses. percent; once a semester of more, both separate and equal to the also visit LaFortune (for what I'm Dame's Catholicism. Perhaps as24 percent; never, 60 percent. Student Union proper. The major still not sure) once in awhile. If William Sloane Coffin onceThe Computer and Math Center The building that receives the difference is the times tbhe two he's not a steady churchgoer, the suggested, they should put
is used by 60 percent of the least amount of visitation from operatein: LaFortune is primarily trips to Sacred Heart will seem basketball hoops in the basement. 
students, of whom 28 percent use it Notre Dame students is the Center used during the day while the more token than sincere. Or even better--a library.
on a-once a week or more basis. for Continuing Education. Lee-downstairs is a creature of the Most of these are freshmen who tures and movies are the major night. 
C • s ·• Nazz, Darby's: once a week or i..TiMMPXRrY...s·rm\·f···i
ervlces more,28percent; onceamonthor
Ommunlty 
more, 28 percent; once a semester or or more, 0 percent; never, 44 !OPEN: MON-SAT 9am-11pm!
•t 1 t • •
percent.
t0 recru1 vo un eers The28percentwhouseitoncea : SUNDAY 12noon -11 pm : 
week or more, for the most part, go
<Continued from pa~e 7) i COLD BEER,WINE, LIQUOR, i
members purchase rundown over four days a week. The people classes. The parish is bringing a houses and, through volunteer who go once a month either go to
South Vietnamese family with ten ! GORMET FOODS !
effort, physically renovate and the Nass with a date, or go tochildren to South Bend. Students return them to the local com-Darby's to study before a test.
will help the family to adjust to !3114 S. 11 St. NILES, MICHIGAN:
munit:v Considering this is the first year of every facet of American life, Howard-Holy Cross <SMC) existence for both the Nass and : "BIGGEST LITTLE _ :added Anhut. 
These two halls have adopted St. Darby's, .the 56 p~rcent figure !s • LIOUOR STOR~ IN MTrJ.JJf!AN" •Alumni-Farley 
Adalbert's parish, which has a encouragm~. Like the tenms ~•••••••1f.................~ ••,,~~~ ~ ,~ .....! 
These two halls have adopted large grade school, explained courts, semors stay away fromtwo nutrition centers, Northeast Longano. Student volunteers will Da~by's; onl;y 5 percent of theCenter and Meadowbrook Center be working with fourth to eighth semors quest10~ed go there.
for Nutrition explained Longano. 
ROCCOS
grade children. Students are What conclusiOns can be drawnThe nutrition centers are federally needed to teach voice and music from this survey survey? Therefunded programs that seve lun­laessions and play at the weekly are severa~, . some exp~cted andchtime meals to the elderly poor. 
BARBERS & HAIRSTYLISTS
guitar mass,. Students will also be some surpr1smg. The h1~h schoolThe volunteers will help the elderly instructors and plan their own student ~ho came h~re With a goodwith their meals, socialize and curriculum for gym classes. academic record will endoubtedlygenerally befriend them. Musical 
hit the library more than once a 
*RAZOR CUT *SCISSOR CUT
talent is also needed as this would Cavanaugh-Lewis 
week,. He (she) will get to the ACC
be beneficial to the elderly. The Students will be working at 
almost once a week and to the 
*PERMANENTS
volunteers will work in couples and Healthwin Hospital, •ex;plained 
Rock once a month. The tennis will
there will be two couples at each Anhut. · · 
come once everv three weeks--but 
center daily. 
3 CHAIRS
AZahm-McCandless Zahm and McCandless have 
Marchetti to speak 
MAKE AN APPOINTMENT oR
adopted Christ the King parish. Students will be tutoring aduring Victor Marchetti, author of "The agency's policies and practices, 
JUST DROP 8 Y ! 
the day in math, reading and CIA and the Cult of Intelligence," Marchetti published a novel, "The 
ROFFLER PRODUCTS
coaching in th gym program. will speak at 8 p.m. Wednesday, Rope Dancer," which describes St. Ed's-Keenan-Lewis October 1, in the University of life in a secret agency. His curent Students from these halls will Notre Dame'sWashington Hall. book report~ on t~~ ~lA's foreign 
531 N. Michi an 233 -4957 
working in a federally funded The program is sponsored by the and domestic activities. . _ _ _ ___ _ program, RE-NEW, directed by Student Union Academic Com·¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥•••••••¥¥¥¥¥¥••••••¥¥¥¥•••••••••••••11-~¥.,_
members of the Holy Cross 
community, explained McTaggart. ~A~~~~ :;~r~~-open to the public: ATTENTION : 
In the program, the Holy Cross Marchetti has been living since~ : 1972 under a court order not to* * *1\H£~ publish any material, fact, fiction~ * of otherwise, unless it has been* *
~~,o~"t ~.ADINe co. SMC STUDENTS
submittedforpriorapprovaltothemf-~ 


. OPEN 9A.M. TO 7P.M. 
TO GIVE SMC A LONG AWAITED *
* 
INQUIRIES INVITED 
*
* 
TEAM NAME AND/OR MASCOT *
* 
Your complete van and 4 X 4 accessory store is 
*
* 
offering fantastic ba.rgains. We have a large SUBMIT YOUR ENTRIES 
* 
stock of custom windows in the styles you want. (SLOGAN AND/OR EMBLEM) •* ·We also have flares and spoilers for all makes of *
* 
TO: CATHY COYNE * 
• *
* SPECIALS * STUDENT DEVELOPMENT COMM. ~ 
JENSEN 230 ROOF VENTS 469 LEMANS BOX 1034 * 
$19.95 INSTALLED 
any questions call 284-4958 
* 
POP UP SUN ROOFS (18 x 30) 
:* 
$129.95 INSTALLED 
WINNER RECEIVES $25.00 FOR THEIR ENTRY AND THE : 
VAN FAIR CATALOG ••• AVAILABLE AT$2.00 
~?~?.~.~-~-~AVIN~ YOUR ENTRY REPRESENT SMC. 
i,. 
TH£ SLEEVELESS COA 
DOWN 
VEST, 
Perfect F0.\1 out­activity. 
f-:::::;:::::;;::_~ V/aYmth wifhout weight! 
IOOCENTER 
~ishowaka~ IN 465'4* 

CIA. The former agent argued in'* ~ court that this was a violation of: : the First Amendment, and a* * federal judge subsequently ruled* * 
that 339 deletions ordered by the* NOTRE DAME HAS ITS FIGHTING IRISH * 
CIA should be reduced to 27. * : From 1966 to 1969 he served as: * staff officer in the office of the* NICKNAME AND ITS LEPRECHAN MASCOT * 
director of the CIA, where he held * * 
such positions as special assistant~*-WE NEED THIS NECESSARY ~ 
to the chief of planning,* ~ programming and budgeting,: : special assistant to the executive* REPRESENTATION FOR OUR TEAMS: * 
director and executive assistant to·* * 
the deputy director. * basketball, volleyball, tennis, * 
Resigning in 1969 because of¢ ; "disenchantment and golf, swimming and gymnastics * 
* 
*
* 
SO ... WE'RE HAVING A CONTEST! ! * 
511 E. COLFAX * SOUTH BEND, IND. 46617 **
* 
(219) 288-0664 WE'RE GIVING YOU THE CHANCE *
*
* 
~............~****************•**..****************~ 
~F~r=id=ay~,~~~~~·~m=~~r-'~'~·-''_7s~------t~h~e=-o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r____13 
Faculty Senate receives report 1 
l 
faculty must decide," the report proved an amendment to the
qualifications of possible can­"It seems unlikely that greater 
states, "is how dissatisfied it is on committee's report which provides 
didates and to submit recom­involvement in governance will be
( ('ontinut>d from page I> issues of governance, grievance for speakers and subsequent
mendations to the President' 0967 achieved for the faculty through 
procedures, ·and compensation." faculty fora, "for the purpose of
named Fr. James Burtchaell to the Faculty Manual p. 4)" the present channels open to the 
The senate unanimously ap· exploring the issue pro and con."
new position. "In these cases it is not the claim Faculty Senate," the report states. 

"Any contemplated change in or suggestion of this report that 
An appendix to th~ report gives a
the nature of a major academic unqualified persons were ap­
brief summary of senate com-
Paper on Catholicism
office should have been referred to pointed to the academic positions 
mittee reports and the ad­
the academic Council," the report in question," the report states. 
ministration's responses to them.
charges, in compliance with the "The point is rather that facult) 
published by Dr. Dolan
Faculty Manual of 1967 then participati\)n in the academic According to the report, the 
in use. 
governance of the University wa!'. administration has yet to A portrait of nineteenth-century comprimised the religious life of
acknowledge receipt of senate
The Academic Council, the denied by the Trustees and Ad­urban Catholicism, writeen by Dr. the city. He concludes that, 
report states, should have then ministration of the University even committee reports on the ap­Jay P. Dolan, assistant professor although diversity was present in elected a committee "to meet with in cases where there were clearly pointments and promotions of history at the University of the urban church, the common 
the President to receive and defined procedures and statements process, the legal implications of Notre Dame, has been published bonds of religion and ethnicreligious preference in em­
consider nominations including for such participation, the by the Johns Hopkins University identity coupled with increasing
a ployment at Notre Dame, and a
those received from the faculty procedures and statements of Press <Baltimore and London). centralization of authority bound
Faculty Manual endorsed by the request for a faculty salary in­
( 1967Faculty Manual p. 1)." The Immigrant Church, New the Catholic community together. 
President of the University and the crease.
"In 1971 "the report continues York's Irish and German The book was published with the "the President appointed a nev. Board of Trustees." Administration responses to the Catholics, 1815-1865 describes the assistance of thee Andrew W. Dean of the Freshman Yeare ol The report cites two more in­reports of the Faculty Senate's effect of large-scale immigration Mellon Foundation. 
Studies, Dr. Emil Hofman... Ac­stances of irregularities in committees on recent university during this period on the growth of cording to the 1967 Faculty university governance porcedures budgets and the budget review the church. Dolar.concent rates on A Notre Dame 'acuity member Manual...the Academic Council relating to the reorganization of proposal have not been satisfac­the individual struggle to maintain since 1971, Dolan was a fellow at 
the Graduate School in 1971 and of a distinct ethnic cultuture in a new the Shelby Cullom Davis Center
should have elected a committee of tory, according to the report.
the Radiation Laboratory in 1974-environment, providing an in­for l'listorkal Studies at Princetonfive of its elected faculty 
..
75. "The basic question which a novative study of the people who University td.uring 1973-74.
representatives 'to study the 
The uncompromising ones. 
' ~ 
:]
' 
... 
The calculations you face require no less. 
Today, even so-called "non-technical" courses It's display is fully formatted, so you can choose Both the HP-21 and HP-25 are almost (psych, soc, bus ad, to name 3) require a vari-· between fixed decimal and scientific notation. certainly on display at your bookstore. If not, ety of tecnnical calculations-complicated cal-• Our HP-25 does all that-and much, much call us, toll-free, at 800-538-7922 (in Calif. culations that become a whole lot easier when more. It's programmable, which means it can 800-662-9862) for the nama of an HP dealer you have a powerful pocket calculator. solve automatically the countless repetitive near you. 


Not surprisingly, there are quite a few such problems every science and engineering student calculators around, but ours stand apart, and faces. ahead. We started it all when we introduced the W,ith an HP-25, you enter the keystrokes world's first scientific pocket calculator back in necessary to solve the problem only once. 

1972, and we've shown the way ever since. Thereafter, you just enter the variables and Sales and service from 172 offices in 65 countries. Dept. 6588, 19310 Pruneridgc Avenue, Cupertino, CA,95014
The calculators you see here are our newest, press the Run/Stop key for an almost instant the first of our second generation. Both offer you answer accurate to 10 digits. technology you probably won't find in compet­Before you invest in a lesser machine, by all itive calculators for some time to come, if ever. means do two things: ask your instructors 
Our HP-21 performs all arithmetic, log and about the calculations their courses require; and 
611/lB 
trig calculations, including rectangular /polar see for yourself how effortlessly our calculators 
•Suggested ~tail price, excluding applicable state and local taxes­. conversions and common antilog evaluations. handle them. Continental IJ, S., AIJska & Hawaii. 

., ·-' ,._."},-. '
i 14 the observer Friday, September 19, 1975 
Use found lor umbilical cords 
NEW YORK <AP) -Two Union Hospital. tanned, by using gluteral­The vien then is covered with had to have blood clots surgeons have found a use at A substitute artery up to two dehyde. This cross-links pro­a porous polyester fiber mesh moved, with the tanninglast for umbilical cords -the feet long can be fashioned from teins to make the vessel strong­to make it even stronger, to ical perhaps responsible for left~vers from belly buttons. one umbilical vein, or two veins er, and the chemical also avoid aneurysms or blow~uts clotting, the Dardiks said. 
They take a vein from the can be joined together to make seems to bind to sites where from the pressure of arterial might be remedied byc··rd and fashion it into a sub­it longer. This makes it suitable the rejection mechanism might blood. No aneurysms occurred research, they added. st 'ute artery. They think they to replace arteries leading from start, the doctors said. in the eight patients, but a few 
The vein can beha e saved the legs of five per­the groin down to below the into desired shapes, such as sor. given the substitutes be­knee, the surgeons said. 
loop to hook vein and artery to­
Butz disclosesprogress in
caw;,e their own leg arteries Eight patients facing loss of gether in the arm whenhad become blocked. their legs were given the new machines are used t~The umbilical cord is the un­artery when other substitutes ficially purify the blood. Inborn baby's life-line, bringing were judged unsuitable or when 
Soviet grain deal plans 
boons, the loops haveblood and nourishment from the patients did not have veins WASHINGTON (AP) -Agri­grain-for-oil swap with the So­repeated needle puncturethe mother through the pla­of their own that could be used. 
culture Secretary Earl L. Butz viets. out bad effects, thecenta. After birth, the cord is The operation succeeded in said today "genuine progress said. 
cut near the abdomen and tied, five cases, with one woman giv­In his testimony, Butz said 
fashioning the belly-button, en the artery a year ago in Oc­has been made" on a grain the Russians might be in the Also, they continued, the 
agreement with the Soviet Un­can be tapered to the
with the rest of the cord then tober, the Drs. Dardik said. market later this year for U.S.
ion. Another high-ranking ad­size at each end to hook up bet­
discarded along with the pla­Three men bad to have legs rice and soybeans, but he didn't ter in bridging large arteries
ministraton official said it 
av how muC'h
centa or "afterbirth." amputated, two because blood 
would assure the Russians 5
Drs. Herbert and Irving Dar­clots formed in the graft, the 
million to 8 million metric tons
dik presented their first report other because of infection. 
MEDITATION INTENSIVE
a year.
on umbilical cords Thursday to All eight had severe athe­
Butz testified before the
the International Cardiovascu­rosclerosis, with fatty deposits 
Be with the Devotees of 
House Agriculture Committee
lar Society in Edinbw-gh, Scot­in leg arteries blocking blood 
one day after the adminis­
• land. flow. This can lead to painful 
tration disclosed the Russian
The Dardik brothers are car­ulcers, and gangrene, with lat­
have agreed to pay higher ship­
ditwascular surgeons at Monte­er loss of the leg, the surgeons 
Baba Muktananda
ping rates, meaning American
fiore Hospital in New York. explained. 
tankers can be pulled out of 
Sunday, October 12, 1975
They developed the new ar­Normally, tissue borrowed 
mothballs to carry grain to the
teries at the Laboratory for Ex­from another person is re­Soviet Union. 
Cornucopia Natural Foods Restaurant
perimental Medicine and Sur­jected. The Dardiks developed 
Using U.S. tankers could 
gery in Primates of New York a method of "tanning" the 
mark a major step toward a 
2031 Lincolnway West, Mishawaka
University Medical Center and vein. much as shoe leather is 
SCHEDULE
On American corporations 
8:30 A.M. REGISTRATION 9:00-12:30 MORNING SESSION
Rockwell president to lecture 
12:30 VEGETARIAN MEA-L SERVED 
1:00 SLIDES
Robert Anderson, president ana him in 1966 and named him 
in 1972. He is a director of the
the chief executive officer of the 
2:00-6:30 P.M. AFTERNOON SESSION
recepient of the Honor Alumnus 
Hospital Corporation of America
Rockwell International Cor-Achievement Award, the highest 
and Security Pacific National
poration, Pittsburgh, will discuss 
COST: $20.00 per person, $15 students
recognition for an alumnus. 
Bank, member of the advisory
"The American Corporation: Who He was designat~d "one of 
council of Stanford's School of
Sits in Judgement?" at the first of 
Nebraska's 100 distinguised sons" a member of 
DEPOSIT: Mail or Bring $5.00 to
Business, and the
two Executive Lecture Series talks in 1967 and was selected as 
board of governors of the
scheduled for the University of "Headliner of the Year" by the 
above Address by October 5, 1975.
Aerospace Industries Association
Notre Dame. Sponsored by the Greater of America.
Graduate Program in the College 
of Business Administration, the T~TOrld ·-·---------------------------•1 
talk at 3:15p.m. October 9 in the rr ~ Health official SPECIAL! ! ! I ' 
' INSTANT CREDIT
Memorial Library Auditorium, is 
I DICK'S ~ 
FOREIGN CAR TUNE-UPj
op~~i!~t~hJoi~~~~~ckwellin1968, to speak on alcoholism I e ONLY $36.95 FOR: 1 
1 STAN·Dr) JN Ew = POINTs,
Anderson spent 22 years with Archer Tongue, executive Tongue is a native of England 1 Chrysler Corporation and left the director of the International an~ g~adua~e ~rom ~ondon I J ~~-· CONDENSER 1 firm as vice president and general Council on Alcohol and Addictions Umvers1ty. Smce h1s appomtment I @f..ff~~ SERVICE · SPARK PLUGS, 1
C:P' Member 
manager of the Chrysler-Plymouth based in Switzerland will discus~ in 1952 as executive director of the I A~erican CHECK YOUR TIMING, I Division. He also served as chief gaols and activities ~f his World inter~ational agen~y _he has I E. CORBY Oo~~blar C 0 M p L E.T E I 
.. 
engineer of the Plymouth Division, Health Organization <WHO) orgamzed 1~ annual msbtutes on 
l7/18iwRECKER & ELEC'TRICAL I
director of Product Planning and related agency dueing a talk at 4 the prevention and treatment of group vice president of Corporate p.m. Tuesday <Sept. 23) in the alcoholism, has served as_ a con­1 / iii ROAD SERVICE SYSTEM, I Automotive Manufacturing. University of Notre Dame's sultant o~ repres.entatJve to MOTORTUNE-UP$--CL~AN BATTERY CABLEs,l
1
A native of Columbus, Neb., Haggar Hall Auditorium several Umted Nations or WHO BRAKE SERVICE . ~-ADJUST CARBUREATOR II Anderson received an un-· worldwide conferences and has I WHEEL --DIAL
I ALIGNMENT _ 1 ·t '' -S \T ;aul-llplll 1
dergraduate degree in science at Open to the public, the talk is lectured in many countries. 234 0707
D1ck Kruk -Owner 
Coloraco State University and a sponsored by Notre Dame's Social He is associate director of 1I 1102 So. llend Ave. . Sl':\. !I am-!lpm I 
master's degree in 1946 at the Science Training and Research 'Alcoholism,' an international 
I South Bend, Ind 46617 . r-~counh not applicable to I
Chrysler Institute of Engineering. Laboratory, as well as. the journal, and a member of the 
._ specials.) . I
The Colorado school conferred an departments of Sociology and editorial board for 'Drug 
honorary doctor of laws degree on Anthropology and Psychology. Dependence.' 
--------------------------' 
The Develop­mental Disabilities 
Center 
lormo>rly 
The Northern 
Indiana 
Children's 
Hospital .•• 
ahe WinJjammer proudly announces 
BOOGIE RECORDS .. IE RECORDS·~·~~~­
HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
I 

SO HELP CHARITY AND GET A GREAT LOOKING HAIRCUT AT THE SAME TIME 
•FREE HAIR ANALYSIS • FULL SERVICE FOR MEN & WOMEN 
Music Store" 
•FREE GIFTS o FREE REFRESHMENTS o LADIES INVITED 1631 Lincoln W11y Wnt ...r...~poir\tments itdtsUed, phdn8 132'-6622..., ' · 
to 
ONE WAY 
KC. WAS HERE
CUTATHON I ' WIN. LOSE OR DRAW 
TO A 
ERIC CLAPTON
.::.·
"' 

BORN TO RUN
O· SEARCHING FOR A RAINBOW BHUCE SPRINGSTEENV MARSHALL TUCKER BAND 
...
"'a.: 
NIGHT RIDER 
s
ATLANTIC CROSSING 
CHARLIE DANIELS BAND ROD STEWART 
•
MINSTREL IN THE GALLERY A Cutothon Is o thlngothon where JETHRO TULL I
SYMPHONION DREAM HALL & OATES I 
The seven expert stylists at NITTY GRITTY DIRT BAND 
JOHN HALL & DARYL OATES I 
The Windjammer 
will cut hair for 24 hours straight!! I 
• ! 
ALL PROCEEDS Rock • soul Jazz • Blues • Bluegrass g
DONATED Q 
TO CHARITY ...­
Special orders fill'ed promptly!
I 
919-B College Square RECORDS Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 2SS-0266 (across from Town & Country) 


the observer
Friday, September 19, 1975 
Iran leaves ranks of ·extremists/. 
I 


By GEORGE GEDDA tries and jeopardize the "billion rent $10.45 per barrel price the Associated Press Writer people in the world dying of cartel will agree to, he said: WASHINGTON <AP> -Iran hunger and disease." 
"It would probably be about 5disassociated itself Thursday Answering questions at a to 10 per cent. But this is onlyfrom oil cartel "extremists" luncheon of the Women's Na­a guess because I don't thinkand said it would support a tional Democratic Club, Zahedi anyone could answer this ques­modest oil price increase when rejected a widespread notion tion, especially because youthe 14-member organization that Iran will lead the fight for have the group which is amongmeets next week in Vienna. 
a large price hike next week at the moderates, like ourselves,Iranian Ambassador Ardeshir 
the meeting of the Organization
Zahedi predicted only a 5 to 10 and then you have the group
of Petroleum Exporting Coun­
per cent price increase, saying which is the extremists which
tries. 
a substantial hike "could might ask for 30 to 35 per cent. cripple" some European coun-Asked how far above the cur-I really don't know what it will 
Poisonous 'Warfare agents held 
WASHINGTON <AP> -The door and then prepared m-"Like other examples dis­
Defense Department may have covered in previous executive 
avoided obeying an order to de­ventory for high authority to sessions the case of the 
stroy stockpiles of chemical suggest that it had all been de-shellfish toxin illustrates how 
and biological warfare agents stroyed," said Sen. Walter elusive the chain of command 
by simply transferring the poi­Mondale, D-Minn. can be in the intelligence com-
sons to the Central Intelligepce The Senate committee today munity," Chairman Frank 
Agency, a oember of the Sen­completed its public hearin Church, D-Idaho, said as he ga­
ate Intelligence Committee said gs veled the hearings to a close 
today. into the CIA secret cache of after three dazs of testimony. 
I am very suspicious that deadly poisons Without· PinPoint­The final witness, Robert T.
whoever did it, instead of obey­ing who was directly respon­Andrews, special counsel to theing the presidential order, sible for defying the order to Department of Defense, ac­sneaked the stuff out the bacil destroy such substances. 
knowledged the Army followed some "very unusual" proce­
Evensong begins Sunday 
duresininventory Earlier, Mondale suggestedSunday Evensong will resume In addition to the somlemn of­the Defense Department mayfor the school year this Sunday, fering of song, both lay and have intentionally avoided com­September 21 at 7: 15 p.m. in the religious members of the faculty pliance with the order.
Lady Chapel of Sacred Heart and administration are being in­
Church. vited to give the homilies. 
This service, the University's The structure of the service, a 
public offering of worship and comnilation of traditional Paint pick-up
praise at the conclusion of each materials by Dr. William Storey, is 
Sunday, will be assisted each week designed to be a act of the com­September 24 has been set as the by the presence of one of the munal praise of contemporary cut'i>ff date for students to pick upUniversity choral ensembles, man, rooted in the venerable free paint for private rooms. If particularly the Chapel Choir tradition of Christian liturgy, and students desire to paint their under the direction of Dr. Sue Seid. also a catalyst and support for the rooms, they must secure paintNew music has been composed for private prayer of those gathered. 
permits from their rector prior to evensong by Dr. David Isele. All are invted. 
this date. 
be but I'm sure it won't be 35 ward adjustment in the v. per cent." oil price. He did not identify the OPEC To help deal with th· 
"extremists," but Libya is price burden faced by tht> known to be pressing for a sub­est countries, Zahedi sa; stantial increase. There have country is proposing the been contradictory reports as tion of a 36-country to which other countries will ization to include 12 oil p: join in a push for large price ers, 12 industrialized n. 
increases. and 12 oil-importing dcvcL 
Two weeks ago, U.S. Treas­countries. ury Secretary William E. Si­He urged that such a g. mon warned that another oil in collaboration with the \1, ·..:, price increase "would seriously Bank and the Internatio•' jeopardize the balance upon Monetary Fund, seek out Wli 
which global economic recov­to ease the payments deficitc. . ery depends." the poorest countries. 
Without saying how much of According to the IMF, pc.. an increase Iran will support, countries face a cumulatl· Zahedia declared that a 35 per payments deficit of about $. 
cent decrease in the purchasing billion this year, a substanUI!' 
power of the dollar in the past portion of which is attributab ,1 
11 months justifies some up-to the high cost of oil. 
Project Choice sponsors education lecture at SM(I 
Project Choice, an institute at member at Indiana Univel1ilty &l 1 Saint Mary's College studying sex South Bend, wilt discuss mJthOI'' discrimination in education, will that schools in the South Bend lift'. present a lecture by Jane Doe can use in evaluating the pres· _nc.:. Associates of Kalamazoo of sex discrimination in their o\\., Michigan on Saturday, September educational programs. 'T'hL, 20, at 9:30 a.m. session is not open to the pu ·lk 
Jane Doe Associates is a group of Project Choice is funded uy " women brought together to study grant from the Departmer. ~ 1 sex discrimination in the Health, Education, and WelL ·c. Kalamazoo School Corporation. The grant is being used to ::, The group will present its findings with the South Bend Commt. · and discuss the action model School Corporation developed to correct the problem reviewing practices of sex bias in materials used in the educational materials which Kalamazoo schools. The session be discriminatory. The pro will meet in Room 327 of the will also assess guh Madeleva Classroom Building on procedures, testing mate the College Campus. The public is teacher-student interaction invited to attend. sex-bias in extracurricula1 
Dr. Marcia Sheridan, a faculty tivities. 
WANTED 
Nl"ed 5 tickets for Northwestern qamt>. Call Mike after 6 pm. 288· 0088 
Three students looking for fourth roomate at Campus View. 271-2701 
Wanted: Two tickets to Mich. State game. Call Tom at 288-8-417 
Need 1 · 4 student or GA tix for any home game. Will pay good price. Help! Call Jane 5135 
Need 6 tickets to Chicago concert. Call 28-4·3226 (Fran) weekdays. 288-9890 aflt>r 5 weekends 
Desperately need 2 GA USC tix for wife and kid . Call Chip 1026 
Need USC tix (student or GA and 2 GA tix for Northwestern. Call Charlie 289-8948 
Desperately Nt>eded: Tickets for Southern Cal. Call 1725 or -4963 
Need GA Navy tix and GA Pitt fix. Call 1652 
Need 4 GA tlx for Northwestern. Call 6976 
Need 2 Northwestern fix and 6 fix for any home game. Call 4421 or 6974. 
Help. 2 MSU tix, 2 USC fix. John 1586 
in need of motel accomodations for 2 for Oct. 24 and 25 (Southern Cal. weekend. l If you know of can­cellations, call Joanle, 4984 
Need one N.U. and 2 M.S.U. tix. Call Mary 1285 
Michigan State fix needed. Two or more GA. Will Pays. Charlie 8698 
Badly need 2 GA tix for Nor· lhwestt>rn and Mich. State. Call Mark 8651 
Badly need 2 GA fix for Nor· thwestern and Mich. State. Call Mark 8651 
Need Tickets: 4 USC, 1 Nor-thwt>stern, 1 or more Purdue. please call Patty 6429 
Need two Purdue tix, call 6974 
2 the to NWestern and 2 tix for Purdue will t4ti&'! 3 riders to Pur· due. Mrs. Hevro~r 288-2754 · 
... 't.'\'.... ·-=.\ 
CLASSIFIED RDS 
Nel•d 7 Northwestern GA tickets!! 
Nl'l'd 4 GA Northwl'stern Tix. Call For Rent: Clean, comfortable Will pay top dollar 288·5207 
Pat 277-1609 bedroom, study room and bath. $30 per month. Mrs. Spencer 233­2 GA tix for Northwestern games. 
4670 Evenings 233-3325 
Wanted: tix for USC and MSU 
games. Call Jim. 287-2284 Need 2 GA MSU tix and 1 GA Northwestern tix. Call Bob 1068 
Nl'ed 2 Tix for Pitt. Game. Call NOTICES Ralph 8326 
Nt>ed two Ga tickets to MSU game. 
The Observer volleyball game.
Call Gary 1808 Need 2 GA tix for Northwestern. 
Outside Pangborn Hall this
Call 7985 Saturday at 11:00. Come spike a Need 2 tix to Purdue. Call 7471 
volleyball before the Purdue
Nt>ed two GA tickets for Nor­
victory.
Nt>ed 2 Purdue package tix. Call thwt>stern game call Chris 283-1788 latt>r 1541 FOR SALE Free · darling kittens to a good Need 2 Purdue tix. Call Mike 8106 home. 6 wks old. Call 233-8579 
Stereo Console (contempory after 5 pm. Call Greg 1762 
Need 1 GA ticket for MSU game. 
model) AM-FM radio. In good condition. $135.00 or best offer. Ac£!rr_ate, fast typing. Mrs. Need 4 tix for Purdue game. Call 
Call 272-5645 after 3:00 Donoho . 232-0746 289-9174 Couches, etc. free delivery to Sleep-in night clerk. Part-time 
campus. Call Mrs. Cooper after 6 Capital Motel. 272-6262 pm. or all day Sat. and Sun. 272· Quick Lo1ns I Morrissey Loin 
3004 Fund. Up to SISO. 30 deys et 1 Desperately need 2 GA fix to USC percent interest. Basement of game. Will pay s. Call Marc 1789 
Leaving country, must sell stereo. La Fortune Cheap. Call 233-4298 evenings or Sat.
I will die unless I get 2 Michigan 
State tix. Please call me now at "But you've got to have friends" LOST AND FOUND
287-0076. Desperate Information write Gay Students of Notre Dame. P.O. Box 206, Notre 
1 Calculus book while in line tor
Need ride to Akron, Ohio or Dame, Ind. 46556 vicinity for Thurs. or Fri. Call 
Chicago tix Fri, night. Whomever borrowed it call Connie 7939
Nancy 5773 Will do typing term papers, Manuscripts, Themes, etc. Call 
Found outside Farley: contacts in
I need 3 tix for any home game. 233·8512 
red glasses case. Call Annette 6745
Call 7187 or 234-6934 Sunflowl'r Music Shop. Vintage
Lost: blue windbreaker with set of
NPed 2 GA Southern Cal. tix. Call stringed instruments. Expert
keys4n pocket. Call Kevin 234-8083
Mary 6608 repair. Books, records and ac­cessories. 632 Portage Ave. Desperately need 2 Purdue fix. 
Ll.lst: Friday night, brown key case containing about 8 keys. If
Ca II 272-6086 after 6pm. ND.SMC Council for the Retarded. found call Bob 233-2744 
Don-I forget Farm Trip Saturday Needed: 2 tickets to any home 9am -3pm. Kathleen 288-4315. Tom game. Call 1038 287·6673
Lost: Pair square brown glasses between Grace and Library. Paul 1004
Wanted: Purdue fix. Call Val 6661 Men's Shirts womens clothing, liquid sliver, turquoise, plants,
FOR RENT
Part time help wanted. Evenings. leather goods · Jennifers. 119 W. Fishermans Wart, Eagle Lake (12 Colfax, 11:00 · 5:30 Mon-Sat. miles) Call (616) 699-7402 
Room for rent. $50 a month. Share Kitchen and bath with one other 
Fran DeMarko says: Here we go
student. Call 232-9311 or 289-9533
Riders wanted to Mexico City or on again! Here we go again with the way 233-3902 social dance Instruction. Learn 
Furnished room, 1 matt>. Call 287­
the big five formal dances,
1997
Needed: someone to share 3 Namely: Fox Trot, Waltz, Rock, bedroom apartment. Approx. $95 Rhumba, Cha-/Cha, Polka. Also 
Furnished apartments. 503 W.
a month. Close to school, a very the current fad' dances, Namely:
Jefferson Duplex 3 rooms. Floor,
scenic location. Call AI 288-3095 'B~mp Hustle, Young Franken· 
Gas heat. 289-6307, 234-0596 
stein. Beginning Tuesday or Will trade my MSU student ticket Wednesday afternoon, September
Whole upstairs floor. S50 Mo.
or beg cash for 1 Northwestern 23-24, from 3·5 pm. 1.11 be happy to ticket. Mark 8732 see you all again I Fran DeMarko.
Girls only. 283-7579, 233-1329 
PERSONALS 
"interested in becoming Catholic?" Discussion gr being formed. Call Carr. Ministry (6536) or drop in th• lice 103 Library 
t 
it Are you a turtle? Elect Jc.h. ·~ 
Salveson . SLC representativ< 
To A.J. and the Rambling M<m We'll be waiting to see you suspended above the soup. RSVP only. --Olivette "nri Staff 
l
•'· Hope you have a d~vlnt> blr. thday. Get wreck~ Saturuay night. You deserve it. me. 
Hon, !
P.S. No pooh laces 
Dearest frlt>nd of faith and costume cutie, Born and bred on the plains of 
IAmherst, ·Une jeune title amoureuse, ·the belle of otterbein. GluckIicht Geburtstag 
Love Francine Q. 
and K. Philips Bon• 
l
(how Bizarrell 
-------Timott Happy 21st and .many From Benno and h housemates, Spokane and 
P.S. The Observer apoiO!; putting this In one day tat 
PRE·.l.AW and FR studl'nts, send for booKlet medical or all law scho· taining average, minlmt recommended GPA, IL·S MCAT scores for 1976-1 
mittance. S~nd $2.00 
,,
profl'Ssional Advisory, Bo> 
Gainesville, Florida 32604. 
..
Querida Susana: 
Te Qulero Tanto! 
-Miguel 
The Little Red Egan that 
"And the little red Egan ct. and she chugged and she ch chugged, chugged all the wa 

Michigan to Indiana." Happy 21st, Mary . and y, is your story coming in? ·Your fellow workers and t dl (?) 
Murph: With your birth ISaturday and all, we'v wondering, "How was it?' 
.. 
Mary, Mary, Terry, Mine all the rest \·'_ . 
Friday, September 19, 1975
16 the observer : 1 ~ ~ :0, t •I --,. 
' \' ~ -..... . -­
Grudge match set for Lafayette 
Irish play at Purdue in traditional rivalry: trying to avenge last year's 31-20 defeat 
picked off the errant Tom 
•y Ernie Torriero 
Clements' pass and streaked 21 yards into the end zone to give the 
In what" has always been one of Riveters a 24-o lead. the nation's most intense collegiate Rick Slager will once again start football grudge matches, Notre at quarterback for the Irish. 
Dame and Purdue will square off "Slager is definitely the starter," ·for the 47th time tomorrow before explained Devine. "All things an anticipated overflow crowd of considered, we think he did a 69,000 at Ross-Ade Stadium. credible job against Boston Upsets, aerial extravagan:t..ls College. Rick provided us with the and potent offensive displays long kind of poise and leadership that have been a hallmark of this we expect out of a quarterback." Hoosier-state rivalry. Last year Joining Slager in the backfield 
the Boilermakers upended the will be Mark McLane, Jim 
Irish, 31-20, at Notre Dame Browner and AI Hunter. Browner 
Stadium. The heavily-favored rushed for 95 yards on Monday 
Irish were stunned when Purdue night, while McLane broke a long 
scored 24 quick opening period gainer for 41 yards and Hunter 
points to halt Notre Dame's victory powered his way into the end zone 
string at 13 games, the longest in for the final Irish tally from 24 
the nation at that time. yards out. 
Notre Dame coach Dan Devine is The big question in everyone's 
not looking for a rerun of that mind seems to be how Notre Dame 
performance. Yet a number of will react to Purdue after playing 
factors have led Devine to view in a tough contest on Monday 
tomorrow's showdown with night. But Agase points out that all 
cautious optimism. is not in favor of Purdue. 
"Purdue has always been a Rick Slager will be at the helm as the Irish try to settle •·score with Purdue. (Photo by Chris Smith) "Sure, it will be beneficial to 
problem for Notre Dame," ex­up for the tough task of facing one Purdue because it gives us an
for over 1,000 yards in his
plained Devine. "All one has to do heartily agreed with Devine of the biggest defensive front fours opportunity to see them. N.D.
sophomore. season. Against North­
is check the record (since 1957 saying, "I feel this Boilermaker in college football. Juniors Ken doesn't have as much practice 
western last Saturday, Vitali
Purdue holds an 11-7 series edge). team will come back and gather Cripe (6-2, 218) and Blane Smith (6-time before our game, but by the
completed 11 of 28 pass attempts
This makes Saturday's game itself tol(ether to play winning 5 227) are the bookends. Junior same token we can't prepare too
for 171 yards.
doubley-difficult for us. This is our football." Agase fUrther added, J~ Zwitt (6-6, 240) and senior Ken heavily for Notre Dame until we
Joining Vitali in the Purdue
second game in five days away "We're a better football team than Novak (6-7, 274) plug up the see them Monday," Agase said.
backfield are Chicago natives
from home and we really have had we showed at Northwestern. But middle. Although this is the first time
Mike Pruitt and Scott Dierking.
only two days to prepare for we've got to prove it." Novak is Purdue's answer to that Dan Devine has coached
Dierking led the Purdue rushers
Purdue." Joe Sullivan, a 6-4, 226 pound Notre Dame's Steve Niehaus. The against the Boilermakers, Devine
with 779 yards on the ground as a
The Boilermakers are still junior linebacker also gave an Outland Trophy candidate was and Agase have met once
sophomore last season. The 5-10,
smarting from their 31-25 defeat at indication of Purdue's readiness. named to the all Big-Ten team last previously. In 1967, Devine guided 
210 pound Dierking gained 99 yards
the hands of the Northwestern "We'll bounce back," assured season. Against Northwestern, the Missouri Tigers over Agase's
in 15 carries last week against the
Wildcats. The Riveters lead early Sullivan. "A Purdue-Notre Dame Novak was omnipresent on Northwestern Wildcats by a score
Wildcats. · 
in the third period, 13-10, but then game always brings out the best in defense, racking up seven solo of 13-6. Devine is 9-1-1 against Big
Meanwhile Pruitt, a 6-1, 206
suffered the late-game collapse. both squads." tackles and five assists. Ten competition
pound senior fullback possesses 4.4
"That loss makes Saturday's Junior quarterback Mike Vitali Bob Mannella, a six-foot, 225 Saturday's contest will be
speed in the forty. Last season
contest even tougher," said directs the Boilermaker offense. pound junior, paces the televised back to South Bend via
Pruitt netted a 94 yard run against
Devine. "You can bet that Alex VitE li, who did not play in Purdue's linebacking corps. Mannella, channel 16, WNDU, beginning at
Iowa, the longest romp from
Agase will have that team tuned to first two games last season, Purdue's leading tackler a year 1:00p.m. The game will also be
scrimmage in Boilermaker 
a high pitch.' became only the fourth quar­ago with 96, is best remembered heard round-the-world through the 
history.
Purdue cqach Alex A~~:ase terback in Purdue history to pass for his pass interception against services-of the Mutual Broad­
The Irish offensive line must be 
the Irish last season. Mannella casting Services. 


*Observer 
The Irish Eye 
.k
::r.=================================================================:;.=================~=======:;.==========================================:::===================:::::::::;:;;;.::::~=~=~=?.======== Footba11 plc s 
Florida at North Carolina St.: TheGators are a high­
So much for the four team race in the big ten. 
scoring team that should be brought down to earth in
Sports 
Ohio State's and Michigan's convincing wins over 
Raleigh this week. State by 10. 
pre-season contenders Michigan State and 
Tt'nnt'sset' at UCLA: This could be one of the most
Wisoconsin respectively seems to have teduced the 
interesting games of the weekend. Both teams looked 
fight for the conference crown to a familiar count­
impressive last week and are pretty evenly matched. 
down to the annual Wolverine-Buckeye match on 
It should be a thriller, with the Volunteers on top by 3.
November 22nd in Ann Arbor. 
Northt'rn Illinois at Northwestern: Could it be thatND women golfers place Meanwhile, Oklahoma and USC won easily, as the Wildcats might come into South Bend next
expected, while Nebraska and Texas A & M had 
weekend undefeated? Hard to beleive, but true. NU
tougher victories. Of the top-ranked teams, Auburn 
rarely goes this far into the season without losing, but 
had the toughest time, dropping a shocker to Mem­
third in Ball St. tourney 
they whipped Purude last week and should handle the phis State. 
Huskies tomorrow. Wildcats by 10.
by Eileen O'Grady Purdue on Oct. 17. Both will be This week, there are some major heavyweights Indiana at Nebraska: The Hoosiers drvie for the BigNotre Dame's Women's Golf played here on the Notre Dame pitted against each other, most notably Ohio State vs. 
Ten Crown ( begun with an impressive opening win Team opened its season last golf course. Penn State, Oklahoma vs. Pittsburgh and Michigan over Minnesota) will run into a brick wall in Lincoln weekend with an invitational vs. Stanford. And the Irish have their always-rough this weekend. Tom Osborne's Cornhiskers were tournament at Ball State ND Sailing club contest in West Lafayette with Purdue. 
nearly stunned by LSU last week, but won't let it University. A traveling team Here are this week's Irish Eye picks: 
happen again. At least not against Indiana. comprised of captain Barb ~ f II Notre Dame at Purdue: Purdue suffered what must Nebraska by 17. 
Breesmen, Leslie Barnes, Linda opens a season have been a demoralizing defeat last week at the Wt'stern Michigan at Minnesota: The Gophers can Sisson and Kathleen Riordan hands of Northwestern, so they'll be hungry. Their only go up after dropping last week's contest to In­
placed third in the competition, The Notre Dame Sailing Club upset over the Irish made their season last year, and diana, Western Michigan had to be encouraged, but beating both Ball State and In­moves into the tough fall season they'd Jove to repeat. But ND has that important first MU has enough of a team to discourage them. diana State University. In­with the first major regatta, the game under their · belt and even though Ross-Ade Gophers by 7. dividually, Barb Breesmen placed Notre Dame Intersectional stadium is a zoo, tne Irish should take it by 10. Miami of Ohio at Michigan State: The Spartansthird overall. Regatta to be held at Eagle Lake Auburn at Baylor: The Tigers were tamed last week flopped against the Buckeyes. If they open up and use 
The team, coached agin this near Edwardsburg, Michigan. by a surprising Memphis State, and Baylor has had the good offense they have, they can beat the Red­season by Miss Astrid Hotvedt, Fifteen schools are scheduled to two weeks to get ready. But basically Auburn is a skins, whose defense is vulnerable. If they tighten up begins its secind. year as an attend this weekend. They include better team. They just need to get on track. Tigers like last week, then Miami, who did not lose a gameorganized club sport of the 
such top sailing schools as Florida by 7. ' last year, might not lose this year either. State by 7. university. For the past two years State University, last year,s Pittsburgh at Oklahoma: The Sooners declined to Stanford at Michigan: Stanford has one of the many of the women have been winner; California at Berkeley; run it up last week, winning only by 60 or so, and Pitt toughest schedules in the country this year, and thiscompeting on an individual basis and Navy, as well as conference is not known for its defense. so they should score is their toughest game. Michigan impressedat collegiate tournaments in the powerhouses Michigan, Michigan fairly high again. The Panthers have Tony Dorsett everyone last week against Wisconsin, and though the area. Their goal has been to gain State, Ohio Wesleyan, Ohio State, and Elliot Walker to run the ball, which is fine Cardinals are good, they'll be 0-2 after tomorrow. enough strength and experience to and Indiana. One school that because they don't have a quarterback anyway. Wolverines by 14. compete and win as a team. Sooners by 21.
always must be considered is last Penn State at Ohio State: The Nittany Lions havt 
Breesmen view the tournament years 2nd place team, Notre Alabama at Clemson: The Bear and his players have won their last three contests with the r Buckeyes, all as a significant success. 'For our Dame. had two weeks to sit and growl over their opening loss at Columbus. But that was a long time ago, and it first tournament this season we Last semester ended up being to Missouri. They'll be ready to pounce on a very wasn't the same OSU team they'll be playing tom­made a pretty good start. Con­another fine season for the Notre good Clemson team. Tide by 8. 
morrow. If they get ahead, they have a good chance 
sidering we're a young team, this Dame sailing Team. The Women's Texas A&M at I o;;u: -LSU almost won at Nebraska of winning, but if the Buckeye's get a lead, Joe is an important showing. Team took runner up honors in the last week. The Aggies are faced with the proposition Paterno will wish he stayed in the East, playingEstablished teams like Purdue and conference championship to of playing in the Tigers den, on a Saturday night, teams like Army, Navy and Temple. OSU by 6.St. Mary's are hard to beat. But qualify th~m for Women's National which is like the Christians against the lions. Don't be Upset of the Week: Illinois over Missouri: No onewe're lookin gforward to beating Championships which were held in surprised at an LSU upset, by 3 maybe. really knows how good the Illini 1 are (they
both of them on again at our dual Chicago this past June. Oregon State at USC: The Beavers lost to San Diego played, and beat Iowa last week) but Missouri wonmatches coming up here,' she said. The final results St. last week, so don't look for any miracles in Los their big one two weeks ago, and may not be up forThe Women's Golf Team will showed the Notre Dame team Angeles. It's just another stepping stone for the this one. Plus the game's in Champaign.
ninth in the nation, the highest
have the match with St. Mary ,s Trojans en route to their contest with the Irish in late 
College on Sept. 28 and one Mth placed Midwest school. October. USC by 24. 
Last week: 10 ox 15 for .666 per cent. 


