

university of notre dome -st. mary's college
28 

About North Dining Hall 
Price refutes allegations 
that he is "always trying to the line. Price admitted. "I neverb)· Mariannt-Schulte 
and minimize food waste," and will gave much thought to the matter." continue to work for its reduction
Thomas O'Neil 

in the future. On•rtimt> not paid 
The destruction of 540 pounds of The figure of $600 quoted by the Price claimed that the overtime ham at the North Dining Hall was employees in relation to the ap-pay is not paid to any employee, the result of a ''miscalculation" proximate weekly worth of the .but instead the extra hours are and not "mismanagement," ac-wasted food was termed "a con-later applied to their minimum cording to Edmund T. Price, servative estimate in general" by working hours. Both Price and director of food services. Price. He explained, however, Aronson insisted this com-
The "miscalculation" was a fault that the actual figure differs pensation is granted to the em-
of the Commissary, Price ex-greatly from week to week. ployees. plained. and was not an act of "Athlete's favored" When questioned about the "mismanagement" by the validity of this claim, however, directors of the North Dining Hall, In response to the accusation of eight out of ten food service as charged by food service em-special service for athletes, workers questioned said they have ployees in the North. Aronson stated, "We do not in-not yet been granted the full hours 
"The Commissary is in charge of tentionalJy give preference to the off they expect for at least one aU food ordering and distributing football players," but also added specific case of overtime. for both dining haHs," he con-that if, as the employees charged, There are many unions for food tinued. "The decision was made to the athletes are receiving special service workers, according to purchase the extra quantity of ham considerations, he "will look into Price, but the employees of the before its price was speculated to it." Notre Dame food service do not rise on the market." Price emphasized that the belong to any of them. "There has 
The Commissary is, however, football players are receiving the been no need for them until now," also funded by the University, he same food as the rest of the he stated. explained. students. He admitted that he was Student coordinators of the food 
An official of the Commissary unaware that the food was being service are paid a slightly higher estimated the worth of the meat as held in hot boxes for players' wage than the regular food service being "upward of a thousand t•onsumption while other students employees because they hold what dollars" yesterday, and was un-had to wait in long lines. Stressing Price termed "a greater sure whether or not the University his desire to treat all students responsibility." would receive a refund for the fairly, Price said he plans to The head student coordinators of purchase. When asked if the meat change the procedure. the food service receive $2.70 per spoilage was the fault of the food Price said the average meal cost . hour, ten cents less than was service, the official replied that it to a student is approximately three reported yesterday, and the food will be a matter for the meat dollars, while $3.95 is paid by the service workers receive $2.66, a producers to decide. athletic department for each figure also less than was reported 
Mr. Aronson. Director of the player. and eighty cents extra for yesterday. North Dining Hall, explained the each member of the football staff In conclusion, Price stated, ''We Commissary did re-imburse the who is served at his table. Price have nothing to hide from the Dining Hall for the Commissary's said. "Any extra consideration students. We employ over four-alleged miscalculation. that they get, they've paid for." hundred of them in all phases of 
In response to criticism by his In regard to giving football our food ·service, including employees for "excessive" daily players double portions of either cooking. serving, accounting, in food waste. Aronson replied Pntree on their first trip through the storeroom, and as checkers." 
--~----------------------------------------­
Rockwell president states 
Public understanding needed 
by Kathy Mills gospel truth," he said. llnderstanding NecessarySt>nior Starr Reporter "The real job is to get people to
Widening the Gap
Robert Anderson, president and understand the problems and
He said this attitude has had a 
chief executive officer of Rockwell figures uf business," Anderson
"noise impact" on younger people, 
International, emphasized the maintained.
thus widening the gap between th­
need for public understanding of He explained public un­
em and the corporate world. 
the functioning of business in his derstanding of the problems of
He also placed part of the blame 
speech yesterday afternoon in the business is necessary sence
for misconceptions on the 
Memorial Library Auditorium. ''business is one of the things that
television news media. Anderson 
"If it is not understood, our makes this country what it is.
cited the example of the "Meet the 
whole system of private enterprise "Business is the job creator, the
Press" segment in which Leonard 
could be in danger, and it is," career creator and a tax provider
Woodcock, head of the United Auto 
Anderson told his 200 listeners. in this country," he added.
Workers, was interviewed. He 
He stressed the attitude of host­Anderson said it is only through 
said the newscaster, whose name 
ility toward business that stems the understanding of the people
he could not recall, asked Wood­
from people's misconceptions. 

~ock why Chrysler Corporation did "we in business can obtain the 
"Business has had more than its support to help business."
not reduce its automobile prices
share of this hostility," he added. Anderson has been an executive
more than it had. Woodcock 
Anderson stated many people committee director and member of
pointed out Chrysler had had an 
believe inflation is, to a large unusually large deficit in the Rockwell International since 1968. extent, caused by big business. Prior to that time, he spent 22
previous fiscal year.

"For example," he explained, years with Chrysler Corporation.
"Free enterprise is based on 
"people exaggerate the profits oft­profit and the prices can't be He holds a B.S. degree in he corporate dollar after taxes. T­mechanical engineering and an
reduced too far," Anderson noted. 
hey guess that it is 33 per cent as honorary Doctor of Laws degree
He said one of the ways to bring
opposed to the real figure of 5.2 per from Colorado State University.
about public understanding of 
cent." Anderson also received an M.S.
business is to require college
''We've let the din grab the 33 per degree in automotive engineering
students to take one "three-hour 
~ent figure and exalt it as the fundamental business course." from the Chrysler Institute of Engineering. 
He is an advisory council member of the Graduate School of Business, Stanford University, and is on the board of directors of Security Pacific National Bank, Los Angeles. 
Anderson also pointed out the 1·ole of business in the community. 
"We at Rockwell don't live in an ivory tower away from the com­munity," he said. "We want to conserve energy and resources too." 
"The country moves with business," he continued. "Business develops new products, such as new fabrics, thatare sen­sitive to the needs of the world." 
He stressed the need for business to have a rapport with the general public. like the rapport people 
(continued on page 8)





OOPS!! Somehow, somebody ruptured a waterline in front of the Library. Move over "Old Faithful." (Photo by Paul Joyce) 
SCLC's Abernathysupports '16 election of black v.p. 
by Phil ('ackley Abernathy spoke passionately of Staff Reporter the need for change in America. 
Dr. Ralph Abernathy, head of "Our nation is the most hated 
the Southern Christian Leadership nation in the world," he said. 
Conference, last night called for "This in spite of all our money and 
the election of a black vice­our power.'' 
president in 1976 as part of an He said 1976 will be a good year 
effort to achieve a solution to the to change the world opinion of 
problems confronting America America, not by celebrating the 
today. Bicentennial but by "electing a 
Abernathy spoke in Washington black man or a black woman as Hall as a member of the World vice-president on a ticket with a Peace Council. Six other members white man." of the international group also ''We must take political power spoke to a group of approximately away from old white males and 50 students. share it with y(\ung people, poor 
The World Peace Council is a people, black people and females," 
non-governmental, international he concluded. 
organization which advocates Abernathy said that he was sorry 
complete nuclear disarmament as that his illness prevented him from 
a means of obtaining world peace. speaking at length, but said that he 
The group, which is observing its would return to Notre Dame in 
25th year of existence, is halfway the future. 
through an American tour. The James Lamond addressed the 
Student Union Academic Com­crowd on his concerns about 
mission sponsored last night's nuclear disarmament. He placed 
presentation. the arguments for nuclear 
Members who spoke last night disarmament in three categories: 
included Abernathy; James 
Lamond also criticized Lamond, a member of the British President Ford, complaining that 
parliament; a member of the America's arms budget was 
Indian Parliament; Harald 
"sacrosanct." He appealed to Edelstam, a Swedish diplomat who those present to use political

is presently serving as theSwedish pressure to bring about cutbacks in 
ambassador to Algeria; Jozef 
the arms race. 

Cyrankiewicz, who served as the Both Edelstam, the Swedish premier of Poland for 22 years; ambassador, and Cyrankiewicz,
Jacov LomkO,·editor-in-chief of the the former Polish premier, spoke
Moscow News, a newspaper in­on the topic of fascism, with which 
dependent of the Soviet govern­they have had extensive ex­ment; and Karen Talbot, secretary perience. Edelstam spoke ex­of the council. tensively of his experiences as th 
The mainspeakersfor last night's Swedish ambassador to Chile 
presentation were to have been Dr. during the overthrow of Salvador 
Abernathy and Romesh Chandra, Allende in 1974. He focused on the secretary-general of the council. necessity of making reforms in However, Chandra was unable to Latin America' where "few rule speak, having·been called to the 
over the masses." 

United Nations to discuss the 
Cyrankiewicz, who spoke

apartheid in South Africa. 
through an interpreter, recalledAbernathy cut his speech to five 

his experiences with German

minutes, as he was suffering from 
fascism during World War II. Hea bad cold and extreme fatigue. 

said "We have come to the

Abernathy said that, while he is concerned with the problems of young people with an appeal to world peace, there are so many find new ways to detente, so as to 
problems in America that he would allow war never to occur again.address himself only to the latter. The young people must find a way"We are going to set this to avoid nuclear war, the suicide of 
American House in order, for all mankind." 
people. We are going to straighten The editor of the Moscow News 
out the economy and get jobs for and the member of Indian 
all people," he stated. (continued on paRe 3) 
~2----~th~e..o~biiiiiisiiiiiie;;r..v;;e;.r;..;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;F;;,;r;,;id;;;av;;';;;Oc~to;;;be;;r;;';;o,;;;;;'~'7~s New registration system 
warld briefs 

COLUMBUS, Ohio <AP> -Jack Nicklaus defeated Tom Weiskopf 2 and 1 for the championship of the $117,500 International All-Star golf tournament Thursday, pushing his unofficial earnings this year past $300.000. 
ISFAHAN, Iran ( AP) -The Shah of Iran is spending oil dollars on arms and machinery so fast that the onrush of imports is choking his empire. 
In his drive to modrnize ancient Persia, the monarch is buying everything from ultrasophisticated F14 jet fighters to mild and cookes for schoolchiidren's snacks. 
Goods are flooding in from abroad at such a rate that ships wait more than three months for a berth in Iran's Persian Gulf ports. Airports depots are iammed. 
an campus today 
friday, october 10, 197S 

4 pm  -reilly lectures "astudy of some organic reactions that involve an electron-transfer step", by dr. herbert house, room 123 nieuwland science hall  
4:30 pm  · colloquium "invariants of real hypersurfaces in complex manifolds" by prof. daniel burns, princeton university, room 226 computing center  
5 pm  ·  mass and dinner, bulla shed  
5:15 pm  . evensong "vespers" log chapel  
8 pm  -dramatic presentation "indians" nd-smc theater, st­epan center, $1.50 faculty and students  
8, 10 pm  · film "death wish" o'laughlin auditorium, $1  
8, 10 pm  -film "the conversation" engineering auditorium, $1  
9 pm  -card party "hearts, euchre, poker" breen-phillips  basement of  
9-1  am  -smc coffeehouse "gruff coleman, 9; kevin kellogg, 10; tony amenta, 11; terry mchale,12" snack shop  
10 pm  -nazzcoffeehouse"danbishop,10; tim miller, 11; mike mallardi,12" Iafortune basement  

saturday, october 11, 197S 
12:30 pm -football "notre dame at north carolina", on WND TV 7 pm -movie and social hour, chinese 5tudents association, labrary auditirium 7 pm -meeting "society ofr creative anachronism" lafor tune ballroom 7, 9, 11 pm -film "mash" engineering auditorium, $1 8 pm -dramatic presentation "indians" nd-s,.;,c theater, epan center, $1.50 students and faculty 8 pm · film "death wish" o'laughlin auditorium $1 
10 pm -nan coffeehouse "paul klula, chris walters, j1 meehan, 10; jack kelleher, 11; dave shaheen, 12' Iafortune basement 
sunday, october 12, 1975 3-4:30 pm · smc founders day celebration "archives open to the public" bertrand hall 
4: 15 pm -founders day mass, church of loretto 4:45-6 pm . founders day dinner, smc dining hall 
6:30 pm -founders day lecture "hallmarks of liberally educated woman" by bette budde davis, mayor of south haven, mich., carroll hall 
7, 9, 11 pm · film "mash'' engineering auditorium, $1 
Library discloses 
new policy on 

overdue notices 
Overdue book notices will be mailed only twice a month, ac­cording to a new policy announced yesterday by Joe Hubner, head of the Collection Management Department. 
Notices were formerly sent to studentsevery week, Hubner said. The new system. will give the library staff more time to spend on other library duties, he explained. 
If a book is not returned within twenty days after the first notice, the student will be fined a twelve dollar replacement fee, and a four dollar fee for processing. 
The notices will be mailed the first and third\ week of every month. There will be no second notices for overdue books, Hubner said. 




I.S.O. releases yearS plans 
The International Students' Organization <I.S.O.) of Notre Dame has announced plans for a number of projects and activities, according to I.S.O. news moderator William Sword. 
Sword announced that the I.S.O. will initiate a new system of registration soon. The system will require I.S.O. members to register each year with the International Students Office in the basement of 
Junior Parent's Weekend plans 
The junior parents' weekend will take place Feb. 27 to 29, according to chairperson for the event Nancy l'ueroni. Those interested in working in preparation for the weekend should call Cueroni (8067). 
Plans for the junior formal were also announced. The formal will be held at eh Indiana Club in South Bend on Nov. 7. For further in­formation call Carol Simmons (3352) or HJohn Donahue 0765). 
S. Bend pastor died on Tuesday 
Fr. Sigmund A. Jankowski, pastor of St. Stanislaus Church in South Bend from 1946 to 1968, died Tuesday in Holy Cross House at Notre Dame after a lengthy illness. 
He was born in South Bend Nov. 29, 1889. He entered Holy Cross Seminary October 5, 1919, received a bachelor's degree fron . Notre Dame in 1922, and was ordained 1\tay 29, 1926. 
He served as assistant pastor of Holy Trinity Church, Chicago, from 1926 to 1934, and at St. Hed­wig's Church, South Bend, from 1934 to 1946. Jankowski served as a counselor with the provincial administration from 1957 to 1962 and had lived in retirement since 1968 at the Mission House and Holy Cross House. 
Surviving are three brothers, Chester. Clement and Edwin, all of South Bend, anf four sisters, Mrs. Tillie Niezgodski and Mrs. Josephine Kalicki, both of South Bend, Mrs. Jenniee Ginther, Lansing, Mich., and Mrs. Mary Schultz, Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Friends may call at the Moreau Chapel after 10 a.m. Thursday. A wake service is scheduled for 7:30 
p.m. The Funeral Mass will be at 11 a.m. Friday at St. Stanislaus Church, followed by burial in the Comm Cemetar . 
The Observer is pubIished Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published bV the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St. Marv's College. Subscriptions mav be purchased for 10 dollars per semester I 18 dollars per year) from The Db· server, Bo)( Q, Notre Dame, In· diana, 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

LaFortune. 
At registration, each member will recieve a membership card. According to Sword, the card system will allow the I.S.O. to keep up-to-date records of its ap­proximately 400 members. 
Another project scheduled for initiation this year is the com­pilation and publishing of an In­ternational Students Yearbook. 
"This yearbook," Sword stated·, "will permit the students from over HO countries within the ND­SMC community to affiliate with one another. The vastness of the organization has mdde this dif­ficult in the past." he explained. 
On Sunday; Oct. 12, the I.S.O. will sponsor a picnic for students and their host families at Holy Cross field. The picnic is scheduled for 2-5 p.m. All in­terested students are invited 
Interested persons are also in­vited to the final meeting of the Bi-regional Conference of the 1\ational Association for Foreign Students Affairs at 3 p.m. today in the Center for Continuing Education. 
l.S.O. officers for 1975-76 are Carlos Araujo <president>,, Rene Ori llac .(vice-president>' Monica Echavarria <treasurer), amd Rose Elias <secretary). 

Threatened Nixon killer is found guilty of Ford threat 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. <AP) 
A man who served five years for threatening to kill President Richard Nixon got another five-year term Wednes­
day  for  threatening  the  life  of  
President  Ford.  
Thomas  D. Elbert,  35,  of  

Louisville, Ky., was sentenced by U.S. District Court Judge Thomas J. MacBride, who is handling the case of Lynette 

~ND 
SMC 
"Squeaky" Fromme, charged with attempting to kill Ford. 
Elbert had been out of prison only three months when he tele­phoned the Secret Service of­fice here and said "I'm going to kill your boss, Ford," Secret Service agents said. That was Aug. 15. 
Secret Service agents failed to find Elbert immediately. Two days later he was arrested 
All Seats S2 (STD-FAC $1.50) Season Ticket Still Available Four Plays $7.50 ($5.50 Std-Fac) Phone: 284-4176 (Bus. Hrs.) 283-7559 (Show Nites> 

SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just 
mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
except home football game weekends. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 
f----~---JOif6'S---, 

l CARRY-OUT ! 
I t 
:~I WE DELIVER! : 
: -;/'1' :
l GENUINE EAST COAST THICK ~ : CRUST STYLE PIZZA (NEVER A : t TASTE OF BISCUIT DOUGH) t t t 

t GUARANTEED! t 
t t t HOT TO YOUR DOOR EVERY TIME t t t 





~-~~~~~AT_~~~-~~!-: 


the .ohsetvetf ~~t 



R·A's discuss roles, responsibilities 
by Mary Reher Senior Staff Reporter 

An R.A. does more than live in a single room for free and advise others. In addition to working dut) hours, every new R.A. is required to attend a two credit hour seminar and weekly hall staff meetings. 
"The seminar must meet for a total or 25 hours throughout the semester," Walsh R.A. Kathy Gallogly stated. "However, it is not necessarily structured to meet regularly once or twice a week; class time can be distributed throughout the semester in what ever way the group decides. 
Walsh, Sorin and Howard halls proposed a day-long seminar earlier in the semester to be held at Old College, she noted. This would eliminate several individual class sessions. But, having the entire hall staffs gone for that length of time would pose a problem she added. 
St>minar Groups 

At the beginning of the semester, groups of R.A.'s from different dorms were assigned to seminar groups. Some rectors, however, 
Pl·eferred all the1'r R.A.'s to be 1'n 
the same class. For this reason, Walsh, Sorin and Howard pooled their hall staffs together to set up 
"one large class of their own.
''SI.Ilce our staff meet·s w1'th 

Sorin 's and Howard's as a group, opinions ofourclass do not conflict with those of our hall staff,"
G II 1 d
ra og Y state . 
Sorin R .A. Don Longano said, "It is a good idea to have the dorm H.A.'s all in the same seminar. A lot'of things brought up in hall staff 
meetings can be discussed further in class, which can be helpful." Lewis Hall's seminar group 
consists solely of its hall staff. 
"There are advantages and disadvantages to this kind of set-' up," R.A. Mary St. Ville com­mented. "Since we are dealing with localized problems, we can be more specific in class than if we were mixed in with members of other dorms. I think integrating 
R.A. 's from different halls would produce a larger, more varying opinion-a broader view. But, they would probably deal with more general problems in a class like that than the specific problems we discuss." 
"The main complaint I have heard about our seminar is that our discussions lack a male opm10n. Of course, there are different problems in a women's 
dorm than in a men's," she added, 
"And we are in a better situation to 
deal with these." 
A mixture of R.A.'s from dif­
ferent dorms yields a broader 
range of exi:>erience, according to 
Rich Guiltinan, a Stanford R.A. 
"It is a better idea to keep the hall staff and the seminar 
separate; this way the class and staff have different inputs. If it were the same people in each 
group, we would end up holding hall staff meetings in class," he said. 
Flanner R.A. Dave Brandewie cited the need for contact with other dorms to decide on the best 
r t 1 h 11 bl
po~?;-k ~t80°r:~. aaDil)~~ R~~-~·said 
it was helpful to meet with other halls' R.A.'s to compare how each would handle specific problems arising during the week. 
"Our rector, Dan Jenky, felt it would be better to meet with other dorm's R.A. 's in class to find out how other halls handle certat'n situations. In class we have a good 
In San Diego 1 BooKs JEANs GLAsswARE 
MISC. HARD WARE, ELECTRICAL APPLI~NCES SUPE~ STORE 1805 I 
Hirohito. assassination attempted!----r:J-=-:-EA:-=-N::-:-S.----.-------,SW~E-AT-E~RS----.. ::~::·:.:: '::i 
SAN  DIEGO  (AP>  - A  man  
with  a  rifle  equipped  with  a  
telescope  sight  was  arrested  

on a freeway overpass today shortly after Emperor Hirohito of .Japan passed beneath, police said. 
San Diego Police Capt. Manu­el Guaderrama said, "I'm sure no shot was fired." 
"The man has been detained for questioning by Secret Serv­ice officers." Guaderrama said. The man was believed to be in 
his 20s. The arrest took place a few 
minutes before 11 a.m., min­utes after Hirohito's motorcade passed beneath the overpass bridge to Harbor Island at the edge of Lindbergh Field. 
The emperor's party had landed at Lindbergh Field on a flight from Los Angeles at 10:50 
a.m. and was enroute to the San Diego zoo. 
Another man, armed with a shotgun. was reportedly seen in the zoo parking lot, police said. 
A Secret Service spokesman said the first man taken into and we are not at liberty at this time to say where." 
A police spokesman said the man was 19 years old and white. 
An officer said a number of .22-caliber bullets were found in his pockets. The rifle was found in his car parked near the bridge, the officer said. 
A few minutes earlier, police spotted him and radioed the station that there was a sus­picious person on the bridge. 
Panel speakers discuss :military, UN 
(continued from page I) 
parliament also gave brief speeches. 
The final speaker, Karen Talbot, expresed hope and optimism on the subject of world peace, based on what she has seen on this current American tour. 
"People are banding together to demand an end to this insane ar­maments race," she said. "There's a new mood in this country. People bearing economic burdens are a ailed b a president who cuts social programs but increases militaryspending.'' 


Taibot termed the response to the council's American tour as "extremely exciting." She described the World Peace Council 
as a international non-government association which works very closely with the United Nations. The council has national com­mittees in over 120 nations and has a membership of millions of 
people. l<,ollowing the presentation, Marece Neagu, of the South Bend peace com mission, angrily complained about difficulties she had with Notre Dame Security in obtaining an escort for Dr. Abernathy. "I served as his security escort," sh~ said bitterly. 
Neagu also compalined about the job the Student Union Academic Commission had done in ad­vertising the event. 
H


STUDENT UNION PRESENTS: 
*Observer 
Insight 

mix of R.A. 's and get into in­t e r e s t i n g s p o n t a n e o U s discussiens," he said. 
Most hall staff views are similar to the opinions expressed in class, 
' he continued. The two groups have different ways of expressing the same basic ideas, he said. 
St>minar Content 

The two main purposes of the seminar are for R.A.'s to look inside themselves and compare how to handle problems, according 
to Longano. 
"You have to look inside yourself an~ see if you have kn<_>wledge, patience, and understandmg. An 
R.A. needs these traits when dealing with people," he stated. "The class is like a forum for discussing problems such as parietals. The group usually reaches a consensus of opinion of what is the most reasonable ap­
h t th' bl " L
0

proac IS pro em, ongano
added. 
One group, under the directions of B-P rectress Jean Thomas, has taken a tour of the psychological 
· d k

Rrvices an ~en PffWnali~l
t t G 'If d 'b h es s. UI man escn es t ese 


However, the R.A.'s decisons are ''not bound by the hall staff," St. Ville said. 
"The only thing we are bound by are general regulations pertaining to drugs, drin~ing and parietals. Other than this, there is no special policy set up to handle problems. It is up to the R.A.'s discretion as to how to approach stuations," she explained. 
Speaking on an R.A.'s authority, Storer stated, "Our rector backs us up. He <Jenky) said R.A.'s have as much responsibility as he does. He said we are qualified and should act on things according to our own intuitions." 
Student Records The only records R.A.'s keep on 

~~~~~!~:.~.as "getting into practical I S -T-R -.. E-T-C-H "Th R A t ff' h' I b d 
e .. mus a Irm IS own I Your u. get & shop at any area
values and know where he stands 
before he can deal with people he I 
must live with," he said. 1 (]()()DWJLL All the R.A.'s contacted agreed 1 
that the seminar usually dealt with 1 SJiQRE1 tt 1 · genera rna ers, eavmg specific I
problems to the hall staff I NEW AND uSED FURNITURE TOYS 
t·

n_le_e_mgs. 1 CLOTHING FOR EVERYONE 
I ------------------~-•• 
1 
I I
I 
I I 
I I 

I 
I 
1
1 
1 
••.,• .,,.
I I
1 1 

SHOP YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD GOODWILL STORES AND BENEFIT FROM.
I 

OUR LOW PRICES ON CHOICE CLOTH lNG ITEMS AND 110'S OF OTHERJ
I ITEMS TO HELP YOU STRETCH YOUR BUDGET 


----------~---------------~ 
THE TIME IS COMING SO MARK YOUR CALENDAR. 


OKTOBERFEST '75 

Wed. Oct. 15 'Thurs. Oct. 16 

Watch For More Details... 
.. ·. 
~.'·.· 


• 
R t:G. s 1.~9 I 3 FOR $1.00 s. MICH. 282-1215 I 
EXPIRES 10-19 

NILES 2 20 N. I ' 


I 
FRONT 683-8322 I 
. 10PERCENT OFF 
I 
USED FURNITURE 
I 
MISHAWAKA 315
EXPIRES 10-19 
I
N. MAIN 255-0246 I 
ONE TINE OFFER 1 'NEW' MODERN STYLE LOUNGE CHAIR I ONLY $8950 I
I 
WHILE THEY LAST I I 


the observer Friday, october 10, 1975 
If federal spending not cut 

Ford may veto '76 Congressional tax break 
By FRANK CORMIER has said he would favor federal the President said. Ford told a nationally tele-take less money out of the aid if New York came up with Ford said his tax cut plan, vised and broadcast news con-pockets of the taxpayers.
Associated Press Writer a balanced city budget and tied to spending limits, is not ference that the American Ford also disclosed that heWASHINGTON <AP) -Pres­

with state guarantees that it aimed at affecting the national people want a $28-billion tax had cancelled a trip to Louis­
ident Ford vowed Thursday 
would stay that way. But Ford e<>nnomy. The set of tax reduc-cut and an equal reduction in ville, Ky., which had been
night to veto an election-year 
said if New York reached that tions now in effect on a one-the growth of federal spending. planned for next Thursday, ontax cut if Congress sends him 
point in solving its own prob-year basis were approved as the advice of local officials. Heone without clamping a lid on lems "it hardly seems needed measures to get the recession-"I absolutely without any said they suggested it be calledfederal spending. 
or necessary for the federal plagued economy moving equivocation say that if the off because of "unusual circum­Ford also said he doesn't government to get involved." again. Ford's plan would re-Congress plays politics by send-stances." Officials in Louisvillethink it would be healthy for Dealing with his own $28-bil-place these and expand them. ing a tax reduction to my desk said they anticipated large-Washington to bail out any city lion, tax-cut plan, Ford insisted The President dismissed criti-without any responsible re-scale demonstrations against"that has handled its fiscal af­he would not shy from a politi-cism that his tax program straint in federal spending, I court-ordered school busing for
fairs as irresponsibly over a 
cally unpopular election-year would be inflationary. He said won't hesitate to veto it," the racial integration.
long period of time as New 
veto of tax legislation without a he made his proposal to pro-President said.
York City ... " 

ceiling on spending. vide a meaningful tax cut and The President said he willFord disclosed that he has "I have said with great em-to get "a handle on this tre-Ford said his tax proposal continue to travel where hecancelled a trip to Louisville, phasis that the American mendous growth in federal "was not aimed at affecting the considers it appropriate. But heKy.. next Thursday, for reasons eople want a $28-billion tax-cut spending." With no news laws, economy in any significant way said he dropped the Louisville
of presidential security and P whatsoever" but was "aimed at t · f r reasons of secur1'ty and
and a $28-billion reduction in he said,· the increase in federal np 0 'also because of the possibility the growth of federal ex-spending next year would be getting a meaningful tax reduc-also to avoid a risk of injury to
of danger to others. He noted tion" for the nation's tax-o e else
penditures," he said. i$50 billion. Pres~ any n ·
that there has been "some tur­
"I absolutely, without any ident Ford said Thursday night payers. "There has been some tur­
moil in Louisville as a result of· equivocation, say that if the he would not hesitate to veto an Ford said he has been watch-moil in Louisville as a result of
court-ordered, forced busing to 
Congress plays politics by send-. election-year, tax-cut bill if the ing the national public opinion court ordered forced busing to
achieve racial balance in the 
ing a tax reduction bill to my ·Democratic Congress "plays polls, and finds there evidence achieve racial balance in thepublic schools," and once again desk without a responsible re-politics by sending a tax-reduc-of a consensus that federal public schools," Ford said. He
declared his own opposition to straint on federal spending ... I tion bill to my desk" without spending should be curbed and said once again that he opposessuch busing. 
would not hesistate to veto it," cutting federal spending. that the government should such businiZ.
The busing controversy has stirred demonstrations, and 
------h----SMC-t70"rrnrrJrrs;.•,r,rrl·;ou;~;$0~A(l
Ford said he had been advised to cancel the trip because of 
Volunteers soug t 1or : REcoRD cLuB cARD ro sAvE vou sss I
"some unusual circumstances m Louisville at the present . -* * time." Officials in Louisville 
said they anticipated large­InPIRG food price survey ! Nonl[ o;\MF sT. MARY's sTuoENT Pho -~ 
scale anti-busing demonstra­by Jean Powley participants wiil be held Monday. 
* ua..aoL·'
tions. 

Staff Reporter Transportation can be arranged. ** .~~ . · ~ nel At a nationally televised and 
"lt'seasy and doesn't take much o~LI 
T

broadcast news conference, the 
Volunteers from St. Mary's are . time at all," she added. Anyone ** :~ _.. I ED 2 ~ President said he is satisfied he 
needed to assist in a grocery interested in helping should call 3 * 
has a good organization and a 
pricing survey, Wednesday and Raccuglia at 4414. * 207 North Michigan Street • South Bend. IN 
2

good manager for his 1976 elec­
Thursday, Oct. 15 and 16, it was IPIRG members also discussed * RECORD CLUB ~ tion bid. 
announced yesterday during a the possibility of publishing a one-* • * 
Ford also said he is not going 1 2
meeting of the college's chapter of page news etter every month to * * to move toward the political 
thf Indiana Public Interest inform the student body fo the * 8 right in an effort to court con­Research Group <INPIRGJ. group'sactivities. Copieswouldbe * ME'M8EH:> ~"ArJlf: * 
servatives who might otherwise 
The survey, to be done in posted at various campus * ·2J side with former California 
cooperation with IPIRG groups locations. 1 M
*s 8 governor Ronald Reagan next year. from Notre Dame and IUSB, will Coordiantors are still needed for 

********************-**"**********
be repeated each month, wit the the recycling center project and 
He said his record in the 
results being publicized. drinking water survey. AnyoneHouse and the White House has The purpose of the investigation interested should contact St. 
been in the middle of the road. 
is to make comparison 'Shopping 1\lary's IPIRG President Debbie "I intend to stay there," he easier for the consumer. ;.H•a-le_,a,.t_.2-.7.-7-~1~38~6'-·-------.
said. ''It's the area where most According to Cindy Raccuglia,Americans agree. 
survey coordinator at St. Mary's,"This has been my record for at least eight volunteers are still27 years in politics and I don't needed. A training meeting for
intend to deviate for any tem­porary political advantage," 
Ford said. Lennon may get Ford also scoffed at congres­sional complaints about his call U.S. citizenship for a combined tax cut and 
NEW YORK '(AP) -Johnspending ceiling. He said Con­Lennon, and his wife Yoko Ono

gress should be able to figure out a way to do it. If Congress became the parents of a boy 
Thursday, just one day after

doesn't have the imagination to the U.S. Court of Appeals ruledaccomplish that "there ought to 
that the former Beatie could

be some changes up on Capitol 
not be deported because of aHill," Ford said. 
1968 British conviction for pos­Democratic congressional session of marijuana.

leaders have complained that 
, The baby was born on his fa-Ford wants the tax cut and 1ther's 35th birthday.

spending limit approved before 
Both mother, 42, and babyhe submits the administration 
were reported doing fine.

budget for the period involved. 
Wildes said the court decision

The President said that had apparently clears the way for
been done before. 

approval of Lennon's long­
In 1968, Congress passed standing application for per­
President Lyndon B. Johnson's 
manent residency.

proposal for a 10 per cent in­Immi-Icome tax surtax, coupled with Late last month, the 
gration and Naturalization
a spending ceiling for the new 
Service stayed the order forfiscal year for which Johnson Lennon's deportation on thehad submitted a budget four 

basis of a m.edical affidavitmonths earlier. 
which said Yoko Ono's healthFord said he has seen nothing 
and pregnancy would be inso far that would lead him to jeopard,y if she were forced togive any answer but "no" to move or her husband forced torequests for aid for New York leave the country.
City, which faces the threat of The 2-1 decision of the ap·defaulting on its bonds. 
peals court held that the mari·He said he has heard of no juana conviction did not make
congressional relief plans that 
the excludable

would justify his approval, has singer an alien. 
The court overturned genialfound no substantial sentiment 
of Lennon's petition for per­for any legislation to bail out manent residence and sent thethe city. 
request back to the immigra­
"I do not think it's a healthy 
tion service for "reconsid­thing for the federal govern­
eration in accordance with the.
ment to bail out a· city, and I 
views expressed in this opin-. 
mean any city, that has han­
ion."

dled its fiscal affairs as irre­Yoko Ono already has per­
sponsibly over a long period of manent resident alien status.
time as New York City," Ford The Lennons entered thesaid. 
United States on visitors' visasFord said he has great sym­
which expired Feb. 28, 1972.
pathy for New Yorkers. He noted that Federal Reserve Lennon was allowed to stay
Board Chairman Arthur Burns 
VIEWS ON HAIRCARE 
by 
Until the advent of the Uni­
Sex Beauty Salon, Vivian's hair design studio was for . "women only". Now we in­clude men. We realize ap­. pearance is just as important to men as to women. Hair styling and hair care are part 
-:~ that appearance. 
We have the knowledge and 
know how to style, condition, 
permanent wave, and color 
your hair to enhance your 
appearance. 
We have three male stylists, 
who specialize in styling 
men's hair. For your con­
venience they work Thursday 
and Friday evenings by ap­
pointment. Their greatest 
concern is to give you the 

+
+
+
+
+
+
+ 
SPECIAL: 
"look" you want. 







$4.56! 
~VIVIAN's 

'11:\IB DESIGN STll()J() ' 

NOWAVAILABIE *+ 
203 N. MICHIGAN 

••••••••••••••••••••NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE ~ +
Ph. 232·2194 

until appeals were exhausted. ••------------' 

Friday, October 10, 1975 · the observer 
5 

Senior Club sees $200 in da~nage$ 
by Mark Murphy 

damages since all of the incidents lounge have been ripped off their
Staff Rt>porter 

occurred during regular business hinges, ceiling tiles were recently hours. torn down in the bathrooms, andAn increase in theft and van­"We are very disappointed by all numberous curtains have beendalism at the Senior-Alumni Club 
of this," lnfalt said, "and it's ripped. Vandals continue to plugthe past two weeks has costing a -lot of time and money to up toilets, cuaisng the club'sdeteriorated the club's condition get things back in order." plumbing to falter.
and caused over $200 in damages. 
A huge deer head, which was
Assistant Manager Steve Infalt hung in the bar for over six years, was pulled from the wall Saturday and one of its antlers was torn off. 
"I never expected this much damage," lnfalt said, "and it doesn't seem indicative of seniors. The vandalism that has occurred belong~ in grade school, not college." 
Shutters stolen 

Theft also continues to be a 
INTERIOR SHUTTERS have been ripoed off their hinges.
problem at the club. The stock of beer pitchers has greatly 
open until November and but at the same time the class must
decreased, two ornate beer tap 
patronage of the club during the fulfill their part of the bargain,
handles were stolen last week and 
week was mild. which simply consists of keeping
a newly purchased stero speaker 
the place in once piece.
was taken. Ht'sponsihility mishandled 
When asked what measures 
"I picked up two hitchhikers in 
"Some seniors aren't handling might be taken to curb future theft
the club's vicinity the other night," 
the responsibility necessary to and vandalism. lnfalt admitted
Infalt said, "and one of the guys 
sustain . the atmosphere of the that not much can be done exceptDAMAGE DONE recently to the Senior Alumni ub has cost the was holding a wooden sign he had club," Infait noted. "We Hhe watching the club closer when it is establishment over $200. (Photo by Paul Joyce) just taken off the bar wall. I management) have to be open. "We haveto have
politely asked for it back." 
responsible for the club's operation cooperation of the patrons.
At SMC tonight The mangement of the Senior Club said increased attendence 
iiNiRODUCiNG-[Jiie----~
during the week and large crowds 

Nursing students capped 
during football weekends may account for some of the extensive I THE CREW OF : 
The Saint Mary's College needed to function as a damage. Last year's club did not 

tucci said. The curriculum in the Florence Nightingale, regarded a~··~·~---lla---------------------­
~~~s~~fo~ro~~a~~~~i~~le~~::~e~ ~~=d~~n~:r~f~~~~i~;u~~in~~~~~~ COM THE PAN II 
provides four years of study humanity and is the nursing 

~i~~::~~:~:~:_le_~l_~_e;_~-~~-u~_d:_~-~-~·~-~-_:_:!_:_~-a~-~~-~-~io-cf_i~-hie_n~it~~=:~~n~at~~ ~ )A~I) pIZZA p ARL 0 R~ 
In bus stop · I ~ T ff I 
Bomb explodes in London IGETI •• The only I 
LONDON (APd) -. Ahtbotmb "A taxi near the bus stop was I h • I 1• I 
exploded Thurs ay mg a a completely smashed. The win-1 t t t 1 
bus stop shelter in London's dows of an auto showroom au en lC a lan 
Piccadilly district, killing one across the street were all blown 1 I person and slightly wounding out." 
Deep Dl.sh pl·zza·• I 
' 20, Scotland Yard reported. The fatality raised the death ­Businessman Henry James, toll from terrorist bombings in 11 I who had just left the bar of the England in the last three years
plush Ritz Hotel a few yards h 1 I
55· 800

away, said: "The force of the to About persons ave been wounded.
blast sent me staggering. I I I turned and saw people lying Q.n Police made no official com-the road. One of them was a :~:nt b~nm~:rr.ssible identity of I WATCH OUR ADS ALL THIS I 
I The pizza the WEEK FOR AN EVENT THAT II 
I world awaited! 0 'T BELIEVE
I YOU W N . I 1 (Save our valuable coupons.) I
I 8-pack 16 oz. 7Up or Pepsi, just $1 I I 277-1221 or 277-1222 I 
1 

for I 
I I Free Delivery I I 
I anywhere on campus I 




·-------------------------~ 
Department of Nursing will award professional nurse. Local clinics caps to 53 students in the first and health agencies-Saint capping ceremony since the Joseph's Hospital, Cardinal nursing program was reinstituted Nursing Home, the visiting Nur­in 1973. sing Association, the Saint Joseph 
Dr. Mary Martucci, chairman of County Health Department, Saing the nursing program, and Colleen Joseph Hospital of Mishawaka, Mooney, president of the Student LaPorte Hospital, and Norman Nurse Association, will be featured Beatty Memorial Hospital in speakers in the ceremony, which Westville, Indiana-provide will begin at 6:30 p.m., Friday, practical experience for the October 10, in the Church of the student nurses. Loretto. Nursing students at Saint Mary's 
"Capping historically has will receive caps designed by the represented a transition period for College's Student Nurse the student nurse," explained Association. The caps are the Martucci. "The capping signifies traditional white with a thin stripe that the student has achieved a of light blue velvet, representing point in her education where she is the school's colors. The caps will ready to go into advanced nur-be blessed by Rev. James Zatko, sing." lecturere in history and a member 
Caps are awarded to students of the campus ministry.who have attained junior standing The students will also take the in the nursing department, Mar-Nightingale Pledge. Name for 

YOU CAN AT: 

GIUSEPPE'S 
71 3 E. LASALLE 
SO." BEND 

PRIVATE PARTY ROOM CARRY OUTS 233-0951 

1 WitWjammer :
: I' ('C. • ' ' . ...,.._ '
~ 
t 
t t 
t 


f 1637 LWW SO. BEND PH. 232-6622 f l_,aLL SERVICz!:S Bzl ~PPQINT_!!ENT_a 


The Observer 
on independent student newspaper Founded November 3, 1966 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Manager 

EDITORIAL BOARD AI Rutht-rford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; Kt>n Girouard. Nl'WS Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil. Features Editor; Chris Smith, Photo Editor 
Edito..,.ls: lJIJ-8661 


Fridav. October 10, 1975 

There is a principle in physics stating that a system eventually runs down unless energy is put into it. What is true in physics is true in University politics as well: when no one puts any effort into a system it runs down. That is what has happened with the judicial board system. It could be a protection of student rights and a demonstration of student responsibility. But unless considerable effort is put into it it will be a complete loss. 
Consider the collapse of the system between the time of its founding in 1968 and now. Then: boards were created by students in each hall. Now: only four halls have working j-boards. Then: j­boards were vested with power to handle such matters as parietals and drinking. Now: anything which is covered by a University rule or regulation or concerns the "good order of the University," i.e. nearly everything a student could do wrong, is outside the jurisdiction of the 
• Boards unless the Dean of Students chooses to delegate power to them. 
Then: the University . Judicial Board consisted of 25-40 students called in smaller panels to hear cases and charged with the supervision of the hall boards. Now: the University and Appeals boards do not even exist because the SLC has not gotten around to picking their memhers. Last year only half the membership was students. The University Board met only once and t:he Appeals Board not at all. 
So the j-board system is collapsing. So what? So this: 
According to du Lac students accused of wrongdoing in a hall case are guareenteed the choice of having a hearing either by the hall j-board or the rector. In a university-level case they can choose the Universityj-board or the Dean and have the right to appeal to the Appeals Board. Obviously, if there are no j-boards, these rights to "hearings -before an impartial body" are denied. 
Where j-boards are weak or non­existent, there is the possibility of abuse of power by a rector or Dean who handles the case entirely by himself. There were serious charges last year that the rector of Flanner, Fr. John Mulcahy, forced seven students out of the hall because of their negative attitudes, denying them a hearing by the hall board by threatening to have the charges put in their per­m anent records if they claimed their rights. Even where no abuse of power currently occurs, the possibility exists of future abuse. 
Even worse than actual abuse of power now is perceived or suspected abuse. Discipline cases are confidential, and while this protects the students involved, it also provides fertile ground for rumors that administrators are unfair. Last year there was widespread mistrust of Dean Macheca. Even when such suspicions are unfounded, they strain the bonds of trust that hold a community together. While j-board hearings are also con­fidential student trust would be in­creased by the knowledge that students participate in the decisions. 

Most importantly, active judicial boards give students a chance to demonstrate their responsibility as members of the University community and their ability to handle their own problems. Too often the adminstration has treated students as children in­capable of disciplining themselves. 
But though the boards are valuable they have been allowed to atrophy over the last several years. Students have let them fall into disuse, have let them lose their powers, have finally let them disappear entirely in many halls. Iflhe boards are not to disappear entirely effort must be put into them in four areas. 
First, a concerted effort must be made to revive them in all the halls, giving them a standard procedure to gain the confidence of independence from rectors. 
Judicial Coordinators John Longsberg and Mary Ellen Keenan are attempting to do this and deserve the support of the students, particularly the hall govern­ments. Dean James Roemer has taken a commendable stand in favor of their revival. 
Second, to be useful in building student responsibility and confidence the boards should be given original jurisdiction over all but the most extreme offenses oc­curring when a student asks for a hearing in the hall. The power must not be merely delegated since what one Dean gives the next may take away. 
Third, the SLC must movequicklyto fill the vacancies on the University and Appeals Boards. 
Fourth, it might do well to consider increasing the proportion of students on the Boards. This is not to imply that only students will stick up for students or that faculty and administrators would necessarily be antagonistic. But students were once considered responsible enough to handle themselves. 
Both the student body and the University community need the j-boards. Neither students nor administrators should allow the boards to die of neglect. What Will Rogers· once said about Congressmen applies equally to judicial boards: "It's not the original investment that is so expensive, it's the upkeep." 
.. 

P.O. Box Q 
Questionable 
Values 

Dear Editor: 
If I had opened up the Ob­server and read an aditorial supporting Affirmative Action on the basis. of pragmatic con­siderations-as a necessary evil, or as a policy designed to correct inequitable conditions in society by the quickest available means, or something similar-! might not have agreed with it, but at the very least, I would have been able to follow its train of thought. 
Instead, I found two blaring edit­orial columns praising the program for developing (or using, or being affected by, or in­culcating--see, that was the problem, it wasn't any too clear what was being said exactly) values, of all things. Now, I'm not sure which values were the per­tinent ones here--whether it was the value of unequal pay for equal work being espoused, or the value of preferential consideration on the basis of a biological accident, or perhaps that old standby, the value of splitting up every sphere of human endeavor into exact halves of fourths or eighths and stuffing the right people into the proper slots. 
Whichever of these values you were referring to, I fail to see how it relates to Father Burtchaell's practical problem of finding a lady who'd want to teach here. Or a gentleman. Or even an uncultured boor. of either sex. 
Well, I'm  off to  my  values  
seminar.  
Al£>x \'uckovic  


Paranoia 

Dt•a r Editor: 
I have noticed over the past four vears that the grapevine has hecome increasingly large and it's about time that people became aware of it. 
Why is it that after one date 
DOONESBURY 
.. 1/N/J I WANTlHAT 
EffiCIENCY STUPY ON 7116 AI<J PtPAJ<!MeNT TY~/J lJP 111P~ CYG4Y?L 6%'£1 NOlA/IS 7Jft'li?e 
ANYTHIN6 l3lSe? 
\ 
H~ ~CEI<TAINI.-Y 15 M/r.1 ~a HIM 7lJ f£T HIS TAILBACK ON lHAT S7lRY 01? HCS 601Nt3 7rJ F!NP HI~ COUtC77N6 UVtMPLQYMENT OICCKS NfXT 
\ tVU/<1 

Diplomatic Night Editor --Danny Sanchez Assistant Night Editor--Val's twin 
Layout ~taff --Anne Reilly Day Edttors --Mo Flynn, Margie lrr 
Copy Readers -· Fred Herbst, Mary Egan Editorials --Pat Hanifin 
people label you as a couple? No wonder it's hard to be just friends. If only people would take things as they come, I'm sure the situation here at ND-SMC would result in a more normal environment. 
Gossip, commonly known as the grapevine, seems to be everyone's favorite pasttime. Do you ever think that this leads to rumors and false impressions which can be detrimental to an individual? In other words, why can't you mind 
•your own business and if you have a question or comment to make, talk to the individual himself in­stead of someone else. 
Now that we're seniors, we're suppos~d to be mature. But are we'? Now. when you hear a rumor just remember. consider the source. 
I hope people don't take this in the wrong way. I only hope that before people talk, they do a little thinking, instead of talking off the top of thir head. Think before you talk. you aren't just making idle conversation. you're playing with people's feelings. 
Haqu£>1 Paez 
I 


Leprechaun's 
temper, and impatience, is as an 
Jig  
Dt>a r  Editor:  
For  hear  me,  wee  ones!  
Preening  

Irish Jig, in measure. a dance. The preening is hot snd hasty, like an Irish Binge, never seeming to end. 
Who else but a leprechaun could sharpen his head to match his ears? His temper, ifl-.{Deasure, matches the jig, for he is always bouncing around looking for his pot of gold. And ''resourceful with camoflage"? Why leprechauns up and disappear when humans come near. Through life gambols yhe leprechaun. with his bad legs falling into dance faster and faster, til he sinks into his grave. 
1Apologies to Shakespeare and Much Ado About Nothing.) 
I"'I<lllH's Withht>ld by R£>quexst 
by Garry Trudeau 
Y£5-[)(JK&:S 01/T H&RE. HE SAYS J.le'5 A801CAT!NG TH& 
GR£66 AN/J OI&R. 
81//lE,/JIJ Ofi&F{AJfoK.Y. 
f 

IXJN'T 
B&T OUKE-, I ON ff! HAVfiiT THE 
I 
TIMe fOR THIS/I 

Features --Mary's twin Sports --Bill Brink Typists --Sorry, guys. Howard's got the list. Compugraphic --Chipina Spina Ad Layout --Pat Russell Purple Heart Winner: Dave Rust Saving Presence --Tom O'Neil 
Fridav, October 10, 1975 the observer 
7 

Letters to a LOnely 
.godliness is dogliness 
reverend robert 
griffin 
In the summertime, my little cocker weaving his way down the Sidewalk, lur-Within five minutes, the erstwhile sleeping does not elude me like a leaf escaping from spaniel, Darby O'Gill, is a butterfly-chaser; ching in slow motion from gutter to store beauty was fully awake; inevitably, an a dog that plays games with a tree. The in the winter, he is the predatory hunter of front. back to the gutter again. Eventually, instant friendship sprang up between forsythia belongs to April; the lilac comes falling snowflakes; but in October, he will he reached the spot where we were sitting, himself and O'Gill; and through O'Gill he with the May-time; and the springtime of sit for hours under the trees, waiting for the as I knew he would. There, in full view, he addressed us shepherds as though we were life is unforgettable--and unrepeatable. autumn leaves to fall. I don't know whether halted, did a slow, rotating body dance until all suffragan bishops visiting from neigh­Pumpkins are no less cheerful, though less he wants to make friends with those leaves, he had lowered himself to the sidewalk; boring pews. After that, there wasn't delicate, than forsythia, and there is a smell or merely talk to them; but he will wait then. he stretched himself out full length, enough he could do to keep us busy, lending to ripe, red apples that the lilac can never under the maples like patience on a and fell asleep. him cigarettes, offering him matches, match. There is never a need to fear a monument for a flutter of color in the air; We sat there as an annoyed audience, not ·refusing him loans, and fetching him harvest or a birthday. God blesses the earth then, as a leaf drops, he will race to in-wanting to shoo him off, but wishing to hell glasses of water from the .rectory. In no (and the ages of man) with special tastes tercept it before it hits the ground. He very he would go away. Among that sedate time at all, he had driven us behind locked and odors and colors in all seasons, and rarely makes it. The leaves are always group, only the dog was not perturbed. doors, pulling and tugging at Darby to make every month is wonderful. With people as swifter to land than Darby is to catch them. Darby merely wagged his tail and danced him come with us. I thought to myself: why with pooches, butterflies may turn into So. with a shrug of his shoulders, he around excitedly; it was obvious he wanted couldn't the kid have left the drunk alone? snowflakes, though for Darby, snowflakes resumes waiting. His eagerness to play the to make a new friend. That animal is a If she had to interfere, why did she have to may be the same as butterflies except that game of catch is evident from his poised joiner; given his choice, he would have leave him on the rectory steps for priests to snowflakes are wetter. But there is a dif­rump. slightly up-ended from the ground, stretched out beside that drunk and joined deal with who were smart enough not to get ference between a man at middle age and a and his wagging tail. You know he wouldn't him in his nap. That summer, I was always involved in the first place? Maybe if I could dog playing tag: the man doesn't have to hurt one of those leaves if he caught it; he is having to drag Darby away from the bodies have understood my beast, I would have run after a heauty that moves off on wind or too gentle a beastfor that.He never seems to on the sidewalk; and in New York, it's a known the answer; maybe the answer had wing. The beauty catches up with him daily, have any luck. but it doesn't discourage probl~m h~ving a dog. that ~s anxious to ~uri something to do with compassion. But it though that beauty seems as fleeting as a him; he gets as excited by the chase in the up With wmos, especially If they are dirty was impossible to think that a young girl snowflake. as fragile as a butterfly, as 
wistful as the flutter of a falling leaf.
*************************************** could be compassionate, 
or that cocker
a Sometimes on birthdays, I think of Darby
t t d ' 't f th b t spaniel could be compassionate, yet to
a og In pursu I 0 e eau I J admit that a priest could fail in compassion, and me, and as we grow older, I wonder-­:I when. as everybody knows, priests are the though not morbidly--which of us will sur­,·ive the other. Right now, both of us are
that stirs on the wings of the wind l'X~~~t~ll~~ ~~e ls~j~~~· as for Darby, it i~ middle-aged, though with the rapid leap of 1 dog years, he will quickly overtake me.
I..'I h '' October, the month of falling leaves, and it
IS a pr11 OSO~ er. is the morning of a birthday so highly Dogs and men are both subject to accident, · numbered it is chilling to accept it. I am disease, or hanging. Statistically, Darby runs a greater risk of perishing under a 
****************************-**** ****** glad tohave lived this long a life and accept
third hour of his vigil as he was in the first; and smell bad..I remember one chara~ter with gratitude the years that' have been truck's wheel in the roadway, but myand if those leaves chose to be elusive, that who had had white wash dump~d over him. 'iven There is so much beaut chloresterol count is higher. If Darby losesis thei.r ~ad.luck. They will just never know ~{trm-dumb, he hung around TI~es S9uare ~very~here, and it catches at the heart. ~ me, he will merely be deprived of a lovingwhat It IS hke to be loved by a pooch who lor three da.ys; and under the mght hg~ts, call each se arate beaut b its name. I call friend who furnishes him with food and thereally cares that they have fallen from their he looked hke a. leper. D~rby, I thmk, it friendshi~ or childr~n yor laughter or comfort of a warm rug to sleep on. If I lose
perch of glory wanted to adopt him, respondmg to a human . . t· t d 
· · · d I h' k h b · l'k 1org1veness; conversa Ion a noon ay or Darby. I lose a teacher who, all unwittingly
Day after day, m all the autumns of his nee , t m ' t at a human emg I e me wine at supper I must trust the seasons through the instinctive ways of dogliness,
life so far O'Gill has chased after leaves couldn't even understand. th gh 1 t · th t b k' d ' 
111 keeps me reminded of the essentialuntil the fi;1al tree is bare. After that, there Speaking of the wino in front of the rec-thoyu ha ~ : 1 se.;eark. 0d eThmf .no~,h~s 
blessedness of being sensitive. Darby,is nothing for him to do but wait for the tory. one of the priests said: "In a little ~ th v h. ~ay eednthm · het nen sthip
11 1 despite his grunginess, is a very sensitivecoming of the snowflakes or the butterflies' while. the cops will come and carry him off; an flekc rdenb atnt fl' e athugt her are de 
, snow a es an u er 1es a ave race beast. That is why, for me, he belongs so
return. I doubt that he has ever bagged a that way, he ll·have a place to stay for the ft . th f . . th t butterfly or snared a snowf~ake, an? I hope mg · ht . " I wasn 't . the 1~as t b't1 sure .the cops a er me. , Ie org1veness IS a mercy a naturally to the poetry of the seasons. that he never does. A dog 111 pursmt of the would bother w_Ith him; but saymg they ImouleS. beauty that stirs on the wings of the wind is would seemed like a good excuse for not L.:_::....:____~ a philosopher. In his attention to color, he doing anything, so I didn't argue. has the makings of a poet; in other After a whHe, a young girl about fifteen kingdoms, he might have written sonnets. came along with a man who seemed to be 
tthe conuersation'bugs your mind
At heart. of course. O'Gill is just a dog, and her father. She had to be a stranger in town, that is all I require him to be. Acting on because she was terribly upset at the body brute instinct, he has feasted on rabbits he on the sidewalk. What she could have 

by gregg bangs
has caught and killed, and he may do so thought of us priests who sat, without again. But I would prefer that he be a helping, in that drunken presence, I have no Although Francis Ford Coppola's "The bugged. Harry then proceeds to tear apart brother to butterflies rather than to molest idea. It was embarrassing to imagine that Conversation" was conceived well before his house looking for the bug. The movie them. If only he could teach those leaves to she must have felt we were spiritual kinfolk the Watergate scandal broke,it was £'nds with Harry sitting alone in his house trust him. to the inattentive Jewish clerics mentioned released when Washington burglaries and playing the saxaphone. 
I remember the summer of '73, when in the parable of the Good Samaritan. cover-ups were dominating the American "The Conversation" is not an action film Darby stayed with me in the Manhattan She bent over the drunk, shook him, news scene. On the surface, this would as one might expect a movie that deals with rectory on 42nd street. Early one evening at cajoled him, and otherwise stirred him to appear to help promote Coppola's film, for wiretapping to be. Its pace is slow, almost the beginning of June, there were three of us life. Eventually, she got him on his feet, and the movie deals with the world of the nonexistent at times. Coppola spends a lot priests, along with Darby, catching a br~ath helped him over to where he could sit on the professional wiretapper, a topic that many of time on two particular aspects of the film. of air on the vest pocket patio in front of the rectory steps, about as close to us as he Americans became familiar with through One is the technical part. rectory. There was a fence between us and could be without sharing our chairs on the Watergate, as well as "Mission 1m-If one is not intrigued by wiretaps, this -I the sidewalk, and the rectory was at our patio. possible." can be rather boring. However the one back; I fancy we looked as though we were Then, her errand of mercy accomplished, However, due to poor distribution policies, comic scene from the film comes from this sitting in box seats at the opera. Way up the the young lady bountiful swept down 42nd the movie did not fare well at the box office aspect. Harry is invited to go to a "bugger's street, I could see a drunken man in tattered street, arm and arm with her dad, leaving on its initial release back in late spring of convention." The scene is bothhilariousland coat and shabby, baggy pants; he was us priests to deal with the derelict life. 1974. It was still regarded as an unknown interesting, for bugs are shown in areas one 
e • • • • • • • • e e ee e e e e e e e e e e e e e • • e e e e e e e e e e e work when it was no~inated for an ,never would've thought of, such as parts of 
· · e academy award for best picture. Perhaps your bathroom. : 1 e this nomination will spur more people to see Another apsect that is accented is Harry's~ffortbyth~ loneliness. Throughout the film, Harry is
. tv week preVIeW eit.forthemo_veisa credible
e man who d1rected the two Godfather shown as virtually being alone even though 
• 
eepics. he is with other people constantly. Hack­man does a great job showing this

• 
b f ' 'J • Coppola did not only direct "The Con-


loneliness. When Harry is asked why he is
• IJ om 0 nel •versation," he helped write it. What he 
was intriguing making a crusade out of this case, one gets
:1 • wrote an story about a
••••••••••••••~ •••••••••••••••••••••••. t dl fth b t. th the feeling that he is doing it because he
The highlight of television entertamment day 8:00 p.m. on 28. Wir~ apper•suppose .Yone o e es m. e wants to help somebody for once instead of' this week will be the World Series games The NFL TV schedule for Sunday will be b.usmess, wh? co~mlts one o~ the ca~dmal destroying them, which he has done manyscheduled to be shown on Channel 16 the Bears meeting the Lions at noon on sms of buggmg 111 o~e of his .ca~es · he times in the past. Hackman perfectlybeginning Sunday in this area <the channel 22 with the Eagles-Dolphins b~comes personally mvolved .I~ It. The captures the sense of frustration and totalSaturday Notre Dame game will take match to follow at .3:00. Monday night Wiretapper, port~ayed magm~Icently by helplessness when he finds he has beenpriority over the Red Sox -Red match.) football will featur~ the Cardinals and the Gene ~ackman, IS shown buggmg~he c?n­
given the once over by the young couple.
Otherwise there isn't much to draw you Redskins at 8:00on 28. Michigan will meet vers~tiOn of a yo~ng coupl~. W~en hstenmg His ability to convey Harry's emerging guiltfrom your studies. That is, unless you're MSU on channel 28 during theND game. to thi.s conversa~IOn back 111 his, w~rkshop, feelings and loneliness is a key to the film.
interested in watching George Burns -~e thmks that this young couple•. s hves a~e A common opinion held by many viewersjuxtaposed with Greg Allman on the Cher The latest word in cancelled shows is In danger. He bec?mes totally mvolve~ 111 at one showing of the film is that ·"Theshow or in watching a Swedish that all of the following will not be with us th~ case. He qu,estu~ns the rna~ who hired Conversation" left you thinking. Thedocumentary on Harlem on PBS. to follow through with more terrible him on what he s gomg to do w1th the tapes problem is that it left you thinking about soThe movies this week are god-awful. moments in the future: The Montefuscos, that Hackman h~s. recorded about .the many things it got to be disturbing. True,Charles Bronson's abortion-of-the-week is Fay, Beacon Hill, The Invisible Man, Kate Y.oung ~ouple .. This IS yet, another cardmal "The Conversation" gives negative im­Tht> 1\lt>chanic to be shown Saturday night, McShane and Three for the Road. sm of w1retappmg-Harry s <The ch.aracter 
pressions on just about every aspect ofand Elvis Presley neither sings nor acts Probably the only excitement the un-Hackm~n plays) peer~ scold him for society. Perhaps Coppola is trying to warnMonday night during Charro! The one cancelled shows have to offer in the b.ecommg pe.rsona.lly mvolve? and h.e 
us about how the world could be, or perhapsredeeming film of the week is Cinderella coming season is Ted Baxter's marriage h1mself questions his own behavior on this he is reporting on what it has become.
on The Mary Tyler Moore Show in mid-case. 
Liberty, starring James Caan and Marsha November. That's right, Georgette will Whatever the reason, Coppola has produced Mason (who plays a sleezy whore so well hook her honey. Stay tuned. To his dismay, he ultimately learns that a movie that people will think about,she almost won the Academy Award in the young couple, nothisemployer as he had especially in lieu of recent CIA and FBI 1973). The film will not make the list of the The specials of the week include the suspected, are the ones with murder on their 
revelations about their domestic acitvities. 
one hundred all-times greats by anyone's Country Music Awards on 22 Monday minds-they end up killing his employer.standards, but the film has some evening at 9 p.m. with Charley Pride and later find that Harry .. Asst. Editors Nott>:
Somehow they out The Conversation is tremendous moments, and Marsha Mason Glen Campbell as co-hosts. Muhammed knows what happened. They inform Harry playing at the Engineering Auditorium is attractive enough and talented enough Ali will join f'lip Wilson's special to they know he bugged them and also tell him tonight only at 8 and 10 p.m. Admission is to keep you by the set. To be shown Sun-precede the Country Music Awards. not to tell anybody for his own house is $1.00. 
( 
f 
I 
~ 
,j 
( 
' 
-(
f 
( 
8 

ACTION EXPRESS sponsored by the OMBUDSMAN SERVICE :\1onday thru Friday 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday thru Thursday 9 p.m. to midnight phone-283-7638 
~. Is there anything other than "rain, hail, sleet, or snow" that kt"eps the campus mail from being delivered? 
A. There shouldn't be anymore. Having been reorganized recently by the OMBUDSMAN, the Student Union Campus Mail Service ~ delivers mail, free of charge, to on-campus students. There are four mailboxes on campus from which the mail is picked up daily <approximately 10:00 am). These are located: in front of North and South Dining Halls, the Knights of Columbus building, and LaFortune. Mail is delivered daily. 
Q. Who should I contact if I want to play at the Nazz? 
A. The person to talk to, is Denis "Dofo" O'Brien, the Nazz's director. He can be reached by phone at 1245. 
Q. How do I arrange to have an announcement read over the P.A. s.ystem in the Dining Halls? 
A. First, it's necessary to have the announcement approved by Student Activities. This may be done by writing the announcement and taking it to the Student Activities office located in LaFortune. Second, when the announcement is ok'd, take it to the Student coordinators of both Dining Halls who will then make the an­nouncements for your organization. 
Q. Is there a Lost and Found in the Library? 
A. Lost articles are collected at the Security Officer's desk and the Monitor's desk. They are kept there one to two weeks and if not claimed they are turned in to the Dean of Students. 
Q. What is currently on display at the Art Gallery? 
A. Until October 12 there is an exhibit of Faculty art work. The Gallery is located on the first floor of O'Shaughnessy at the west end and is open Mon-Fri from 10 a.m. to 4:45p.m. and on weekends from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. Admission is free. REMINDER: The Quickie will be running tonight. 


Oktoberfest festivities are slated to begin Thursday 
By Sue BaUmann Staff Reporter 

A beer garden and dance in Regina Hall on Thursday night, October 16, will highlight Oktoberfest '75, according to SMC Social Commissioner Molly McKenna . 
The beer garden, located in th basement of Regina, will be open t­
o those 21 years of age and older. Proof of age will be required. Refreshments, including brat­worst, prtetzels and popcorn, will be available to everyone. The dance, in the Regina North lounge, will feature the local band Stratus. 
The annual celebration will open with a special German dinner at St. Mary's dining hall on Wed­nesday, October15. A German band will entertain during dinner. 
Following dinner, the winner of 

, the hall decorating contest will be announced. Each dorm participating in the contest will be judged and the winning 

& OUTER 
• Carl Sagan-"Exploration of Space" 

• Stanley  Krippner-"Do  
Changes  in  Consciousness  
Lead  to  Changes  in  Soci­ 
ety?"  
• Robert  Theobald-"New  

Dialog for a New Future" 

• 
.J. Allen Hynek-"The UFO Experience" 

• 
Richard Farson-"The Future of the American Family" 

• 
Stephanie Mills, Moderator . <concerned with overpopu­


lation) -Two-day panel discussion, with rap sessions, two feature films and other activities de­signed to expJore the question of where we have been and where we ·are going. Future shock is today. Nov. 1&2, all day, Conrad Hilton, Chicago. $55.' STUDENT FEE: $35 with this coupon-Oasis Center, 12 
E. Grand, Chicago 60611, 
(312) 266..()()33~ 
dorm will receive a prize of doughnuts and hot chocolate. 
At 8 p.m. , there will be an in­formal concert in O'Laughlin Auditorium with the Care of the Cow, a Chicago-based band which plays a .11ellow type of folk-rock music. Al''mission to the concert is seven t y -five_ c en t s . 
Thursday opens with an arts and crafts show with items both on display and for salein Le Mans from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
. . . . . The festivities contmue m the 
$35 maximum set 


ND checks cashed on campus
by \'ickie Ziamer Staff Reporter 

University payroll checks for $35 or less will be cashed Mondays and Fridays from 1 to 4:30 in room 109, the Lost and Found room, of the Administration Building. 
The service, which begins Monday, October 13, affects only students on University payroll. "There will be no exceptions," st­ated Bro. Kieran Ryan, assistant vice-president for business affairs. 
Ryan began examining the possibilities of such a service when Stan Cardenas, executive coor­dinator of student government, requested a service for cashing small payroll checks. 
"This is being done to respond to what is apparently a student need. It is designed especially for 

students  who  have  no  bank  ac­ 
count," said Ryan.  
Over five hundred students  are  

on payroll from the University, 

SHELBY. Ind. <AP) -Fifty­five children were injured ­one of them. critically -early Thursday when a school bus collided with a garbage truck 
in  southern  Lake  County,  au­ 
thorities  said.  
A spokesman  at  St.  Anthony  
Medical  Center  in  Crown  Point  

said Connie Coonfare, 12, of Shelby, was-in critical condition with a head injury. 

Five or six children would be admitted to the hospital, the ·spokesman said. The rest were treated and released. 
Police said the Tri-Creek School Corp. bus crashed into the truck on Ind. 55 in heavy fog as it was driving the stu­dents to the Lowell middle and senior schools. 
The truck and a car were blocking the highway after a previous accident between the car and another school bus, po­lice said. 
Tri-Creek bus driver Ken Craft said dense fog preventedhim from seeing the vehicles 
afternoon with contests and games , ahead. 
on te field by the dining hall Fom -------­
2: 30· to 4:30, students will have a chance to test their skills in scarecrow making, apple dunking Anderson speech and ice cream eating contests. 
(continued from page 1)
Oktoberfest T-shirts will be on have with the environmentalists,sale Monday and Tuesday in the the consumer groups, and thehall lobbies fro $3.00 

politicians. 
The main purpose of Oktob­"We need resources to meet erfest is to allow students and market conditions, provide jobs faculty to get together and just have and provide taxes. We also need a good time, said McKenna. unity. With understanding and Everyone in the Notre Dame -St. help, we can go a long way in the 
Mary's community is invited to next few years," Anderson con­ioin in the festivities. cluded.

r----------.-------------•
I RADIATOR I 
I //J I 
I l<epairing -1 
II I "'WE CAN HANDLE THE TOUGH ONES" II 
SINCE 1922 

1 289~5850 1 
I I I I I I I I I I 
II II 
.CLEANING • RECORING 

1 • GAS TANK REPAmiNG 1 "TOUGH GUY" I
I Welding -Heaters 

Fleet Truck Contracts Welcome 
I 
SAME DAY SERVICE 

I I 1136 MISHAWAKA I I I I
"IF YOU HAVE A ROUGH TRIP AHEAD
I I I OF YOU, CHECK OUT THE I 
...___________

.I 'TOUGH GUYS'." I


------------J 
many as Dining Hall workers and RA's. 
The need for this service arose because Gilbert's Campus Store, which cashed University payroll and personal checks, closed at the end of the 1975 spring semester. Gilbert's was the only campus location· offering such a service. 
The cashier's Office only cashes checks made out to "Cash". It will not cash University checks or personal checks. 
Ryan pointed out that it would be pointless for the University to . write payroll checks if many people would simply run· to the Cashier's Office and cash them. The enormous amounts of money this entails would cause large security problems. 
Security is the major reason that cashed checks will be limited to $35. "We want to avoid hassles about the amount," emphasized 
School bus, truck collide; 55 injuries are reported 
The first accident happened when DeMotte Christian school bus driver Bernadine Kam­penga, of Rt. 2, Wheatfield, 
sideswiped the  front  end  of  the  
garbage  truck  as  it  attempted  
to  back  into  a  driveway,  au­ 

thorities reported. 
The truck had stopped in the northbound lane of Ind. 55 when a car driven by Pamela A. Stei­ner, 19, of Shelby, struck it 
from behind. 



Ir----------------,
INSTANT CREDIT • 

wINTERIZE I 
.~~ SPECIAL!!!

I DI(Krs (if!=) I
BACK FLUSH
J
I 1 /c..~· ·:r COOLING SYSTEMI I ~ ~~;~~~ PRESSURETEST SYSTEMI
I I
E. CORBY Oil Motor 

i!i~RECKERiu& All HOSES I ~ ROAD SERVICE 7 QTS. ANTIFREEZE I
I~ I
z ONLY $15.05 
MOTOR TUNE-UP ~
I BATTERY SALE FROM
BRAKESERVICE.
I Al~~~~Nr ~-0°7'A0L $1 to $5 0 F F I
234_ 7

Dick Kruk • Own"'
I MON.-SAT. 78m-llpm I1102 So. fiend Ave. 
South Bend. lnd 46617 SUN. 9am-9pm II (DISCOUNTS NOT AP­L · PLicAsLE ro sPECIALs) .I 
Hyan. "If a student has a check for 
$35.10, it will not be cashed." 
Determining security measures, 
hiring an additional employee, 
making extra space in the Lost and 
Found room for the service, and 
causing extra work for the 
Cashier's Office were snags en­
countered in establishing the 
service. 
~tudent Body President Ed ·Byrne sees the service as valuable 
to students. "This is a chance for 
those students who don't have 
large paychecks and who have 
nowhere else to cash them 
Byrne thought that the efforts 
put into this, largely resulting from 
an Obst'nt>r editorial, are 
significant. "It. shows that 
Business Affairs is able to respond 
to student concerns," he com­
mented. 
*1\H£\.* 

~~\'OST. 1~RDIN~ 

CAMP 7 DownPorka. 
IOOCENTER Mishawaka, IN 46)44 
Phone~ 2Jq/25Cl-5213 
---------------­

A fALL RETREAT -TIME APARI FOR 'fOU~SfLF 
PLACE": OLD ColLEGE. D~TE : ocr. 11, t8, t<i (PR,.1MR.O'-"HSVN.) 
WIT~ MoRToN KfLSft,Y 
1l·H:ME: HOW 1'o Lo E 
5l'f'l UP IAl C~f'rJ5 MtJJI61"~ (t1>3 Lie.) If. f'i;.~ 
The Nazz:a taste of New Orleans 
by John Shaughnessy Staff Reporter · 
Entering La Fortune bas~ment 
on most Wednesday mghts, 
students are treated to a _taste of 
New Orleans . ~or ami~st t_he 
subdued surroundmgs of fhckermg 
ca~dles, soft shadows ~nd 
wh1sp~rs, the .Not_re Dame Jazz 
b~nd .f•ll~ t~~ a1r.~1th t~e sound of 
A Swmg .' Bop a~d J~zz-rock. 
One~ agam, a~ lea~t m this weekly 
session, Jazz IS Kmg. 
According to Fr. George 
Wiskirchen, jazz band ~irector, the 
week.ly performance IS p~r~ o~ a 
contmual effor~ to fam1hanze 
students with this unique and often 
misunderstood type of music. 
Wiskirchen stated, "The 
primary purpose of the jaz_z band is 
to expose the students to Jazz as a 
signi.fica~t music~l form. After 
all, Jazz Is recogmzed as the only 
true American contribution to 
music. That's why I flet we whould 
represent it." 
In Fourth Year 

As the band is in its fourth year at Notre Dame, the program has achieved a certain amount of success, according to Wiskirchen. 
.. In its initial season, there was 
only one "big band" but the jazz 
bar'ft:i has expanded every year. 
Presently the program consists of 
two "big bands", 18 members is 
each. an two combos, six members 
1 in each. Wiskirt:hen noted that this ' year more people tried out for the jazz band than ever before. 
Citing one reason for jazz's in­creased popularity here, Wiskirchen says, "Jazz offers a 
.1 means of entertainment, providing the opportunity to experience and play many differnet styles--Count Bassie's "Swing", Dizzy Gillespie's "Bop", the jazz-rock of Chicago and free piano form im­provisation. Steve Calonje a drummer in the band from Ne~ Orleans offers another reason. He says, :'Jazz is my satisfaction. More than any other music it allows you to freely express you~self. It's a way to set vou loose." · Nick Talarico a trombonist agrees, "Jazz gi~es us an outlet that we didn't have before. Even if you're not a soloist, it gives you a chance to create which can't be found in a marching band or or­chestra." Talarico, however, says the real reason for the growth of the jazz bsnd is Wiskirchen. "Fr. Wiskirchen had to build the jazz band almost from nothing. Con­sidering the circumstances, he's done a great job," he said. 
Continues to Grow 
Although the jazz band has developed in its four years, Talarico says, "there's still a long way to go." The biggest problem 
,by Liz Merell 
Staff Reporter 

The Senior Life Career Planning Workshop, sponsored by St. l\1ary's Career Development Center. held its third session in the 1\ladeleva study lounge yesterday evening. 
The workshop, consisting of a series of lectures and demonst­rations. is geared to give senior students the information as well as the confidence they need to achieve their career goals. 
Phyllis VanDerBeck, supervisor of training and EEO for Bendix Corp. of South Bend, discussed the role of the woman in industry. The tradi tiona! stereotype of the woman. barefoot and pregnant, is 

Spanish army is growing 1nore against Gen. Franco 
B~· JULIE FLINT 

Associated Press Writer 
MADRID, Spain <AP> -New evidence of unrest in th~ Span­ish army, a traditional source of strength for Gen. Francisco Franco, was revealed Thursday 
in  the  arrest  of  three  officers  
with  possible  links  to  Basque  
separatist guerrillas.  

As Franco, under pressure at home and abroad, faced his worst political cns1s ever, army headquarters in Barce­lona announced they had ar­rested three officers in con­nection with investigations into an underground network of an­tigovernment subversives. 
Fourteen officers now have been arrested in the investiga­tions. Nine have been charged with sedition. Political oppo­nents of the regime say they have enlisted the support of hundreds of young officers and charged that army authorities dare not follow their probe to the source for fear of setting loose a landslide of dissidence. 
The army disclosed the ar­rests in a brief one-paragraph communique, without identi­fying the men. But military sources said they were two cap­tains and an artillery major known to be closely linked to the 11 officers previously ar­rested -two in Barcelona last February and nine in Madrid in August. 
At the same time, the army announced a special antisubver­sive brigade was engaged in maneuvers in the Cordoba area, its base in southern Spain. The ·army described the maneuvers as routine, but ob­servers could remember no precedent and no previous men­tion of the brigade. 
In  Barcelona,  the  military  
sources  identified  the  three offi­ 
cers  arrested  as  artillery  Maj.  

Enrique Lopez-Amor, cavalry Capt. Arturo Gurrearan Gran­ados and infantry Capt. Juan Diego Garcia. They said Gur­rearan had been in charge of officer training in universities in the Barcelona area until he was removed earlier this year. 
The army said the three were held in a barracks in Barce­lona, pending charges against them. 
Police sources, meanwhile, disclosed that another army of­ficer was detained last month in connection with the arrest of Jose Mugica Arregui, military leader of the Basque separatist movement, Basque Land and Liberty <ETA>. 
ETA is believed responsible for a majority of the 21 police killings so far this year. All were terrorist crimes, with the exception of two deaths in Bar­celona on Wednesday when po­lice guards shot dead two of their own men after an attack by terrorists. . 
The police source identified the officer questioned about Mugica only as a captain. It was not known whether he was charged with any offense or whether he had been released. 
Mugica, accused in the De­cember 1973 assassination of Premier Luis Carrero Blanco, is currently awaiting trial and is widely expected to be con­victed and executed-. 

Observer* Insight 
cited was the band's inability to practice as much as it would like. The jazz band usually practices once a week.Talarico, who has been wiht the band for three years, said, "We still have the same difficulties as when we started. Someone always has a test or 
studying to do." 
The problem, according to Wiskirchen, stems from the fact that most of the band's members are non-music majors and have other interests. There are· only four music major in the entire four groups. In comparison, at schools known for jazz, such as Eastman, Illinois and Northwestern, all their musicians are music majors. 
Both Calonje and Talarico view lack of university accreditation as another cause of the problem. They pointed out that the mar­ching band and the concert band are both accredited by the university. 
"We have a lot of ptential in our band," said Calonje. "The only thing that hurts is that we're not affiliated with the University. 'Big Band' can be a real educational t>xperience. If it could be a regular 
------------~----------------------------­
•

WomenS new role 1n industry discussed in career workshop 
passe. she stated. Through recent legislation, (The Equal Pay Act of 
1963  and  more  recently  the  
Executive  Order  11246,  Revised  
.order.  4,  1972)  it  has  become  

possible for a woman to hold 
virtually any job in all capacities, 
she explained. 
VanDerBeck pointed out that 40 percent of the country's work force 
is female. However, a relatively 
small percentage of these women are managers or technicians. 
VanDerBeck feels that because of 
changing social standards, women 
will and must become a part of 
management and industry. 
VanDerBeck has found that,"...
if you act professionally, you get 
treated professionally. In selec­
ling a career, you must take into account what type of committment 
you are willing to make to t,your job, and what priorities you are willing to give it.-.. 
Karen O'Neil, director of the 
participation in the workshop so • far .. She fe~ls that _the final two:
sessiOns w1ll provide valuable • information in helping to achieve: career goats. : · The next session is sceduled for ~ 
Oct. 16 at 7:30p.m. in the studente loungeofMadelevaatSMC. Itwill:
be an intense analysis of r'esumes • and techniques for writing a good: 
resume. ,.
The fifth and final session will be: held oct. 23, again in the student: lounge at 7:30. Emphasis will bet course it would really help." 
Talarico added, "It's hard to get 
18 people together at the same 
time. If we had a class period to 
play, it would be so much better."­
Presently, the University has a course called Introduction to Jazz taught by Wiskirchen invovling the theory and history of jazz. Ap­proximately 50 students are enrolled. 
Although both musicians say they need more University sup­port, they consider the student support "surprising"; 
Students Hespond 
Talarico said, "I've really been pleased with the response of the students. I didn't think anyone would pay attention. Now there's more interest than I ever ex­pected." 
Most students who have seen the jazz band perform seem to enjoy the music. 
Rich Basso, an Engineering grad student, said "i first came to see the jazz band out of curiousity. Now, although I'm not an avid lover of jazz I do enjoy it." 
Ed Rooney, a junior, com­mented, "I was exposed to jazz my freshman seminar class and I thought it was really good. I've 
.continued to like it ever since." 
"I like jazz. It's a change from all the rock I hear," said Sophomore Don Wolfe. 
On April 2,3 and 4, Notre Dame 
FAMILY FISH SHOP 

SPECIAL 
TO ALL ND STUDENTS lOgo/ tank $3.99 20gal tank $12.99 30gal tank $2 1 Reduced Prices for TROPICAL FISH 
50889N.Michigan 

will host the Collegiate Jazz Festival which is the oldest, largest and most well-known festival in the country. The festival began at Notre Dame in 1959 and has been held here every year. Last year, Sonny Rollins, tenor saxophone, and Hubert Laws, flute, were "name " per­formers present. The jazz band will present its own concert sometime in March. 
The jazz band performs almost every Wednesday at 10 p.m. in the basement of LaFortune. 

FRI.-7:00-9:20 PM SAT.-SUN.-2:00-4:20 

S.B. TIME) 
FAST 





TV SERVICE 
AND SALES 
WESTERN ELECTRONICS 153011 JI:'C'TERN AVE 
vv~ 
• 
.

Phone 282 _1955 
. . 

Career Development Center, said1••••••••••••••••!••••••••••••...•••••••••••••~ 
she has been pleased with the• REMEMBER THE FOOD YOU USED • 
pl~ced on job_ interviews, along: ITALlAN SPECIALTIES : : 
w1th presentmg oneself as a: • desirable employee. O'Neil en-: SIIAGHETTI : courages all interested s~udents t_o OSTACIOLLI 10%0 discount • 
attend and feels they will benefit: M : through their participation. 1 LASAGNA with N.D. /.D. : • 
TO GET AT FRANKIE'S?'? : 
: 

THAT'S THE SAME FOOD : YOU GET HERE. : 
• 

(Dorothy, the cul'sine artist with :
• 

19 years of gourmet cooking : at Frankie's is now at Vale~ie's • 
: 

cooking the same delicious food) : 
• 

----------------· 


Convention : : meetings 
:• 

. Mark Frieden, press secret~ry•
for the 1976 Mock Convention: 
•yesterday announced two com-• rnittee meetings. : 
The State Delegation Chair-• persons will meet at 6:30 on: 
Monday, Oct. 13, in room 127 of • Ni_euwland_. The Publicity Com-: 
nuttee Will meet at 6:30 on • 
RAVIOLI . : PASTA FAGIOLI <Italian bean soup>. :
•
•

(Dinners Inc. Italian bread & salad) • OPEN BREAKFAST SERVED:
S t . • 
am 0 9 pm ANYTIME : 
URANT •
1

VALERIE S RESTA : 801 S MICHIGAN SO BEND : 
r

(NEXT TO GILBERTS) 289 _ 0681 : 
• 

Tuesday Oct. 19, in the same room. •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~••••-••••
' . . 
·~ ' 
'•{ 
'-<,' 
'\ \ lQ: the .,obs,~rv~{h Friday, oc~~_,).O,, 1975 ­
'­
,, UNofficials are held in Argentina
\1d I 
v \, 
By ALFONSO CHARDY Associated Press Writer

v 
\l 
\ 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina ~. '· (AP) -A dozen Latin refugees I' holding five United Nations offi­
\; 
cials hostage for the second ~ day waited Thursday for a country to give them asylum.
~ 
Argentina has agreed to give them-safe passage. 
"We are still waiting and we ~ are not going to leave until we get a country to take us,'' said~ the apparent leader of the group, a man with a Brazilian . . :~ , accent, who called himself 
group spokesman.
' l\ 
He said negotiations were go­\) ing on with seven countries, in­cluding Belgium, Sweden, Den­~ mark and an unidentified So­
:~ 
~ 
cialist nation. Earlier, only'\ Sweden and Belgium were mentioned. \I A spokesman at U.N. head­
quarters in New York said Al­geria also was being consid­ered. 
The refugee spokesman was referred to as "number one" by a woman with a Chilean ac­cent, who answered the phone at the offices of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. The group seized the offices with guns at midday Wednes­day, demanding haven in an­other country because they were destitute in Argentina. 

John Kelly, the Irish legal representative of Prince Sadr­uddin Aga Khan, the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees at Geneva, arrived in Buenos Aires, apparently to mediate with the refugees. 
included two or three women 
and a Brazilian. 
r The hostages included Robert Jean Muller, the Swiss chief representative of the High Commissioner for Refugees in Argentina, and nationals of Austria, Chile and Argentina. 
. Argentine Foreign Minister 
Manuel  Arauz  Castex  on  
Wednesday night  announced  the  
government's agreement  to  

grant the refugees safe passage to another country if one could be found to accept them. 
The spokesman for the group sounded tired as he spoke with The Associated Press over the telephone. He described the of­fices as spacious and comfort-

The spokesman for the group ,able. Food and blankets have said the number of refugees been provided. holding the hostages was 12, The refugees issued their eleven Chileans. He declined to third communique, saying the give their names but said they hostages "spent a normal 
\\ Charges of obstruction in Nixon 
~ 
(, 
't 
'\ 
tax deduction case dismissed
~) 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -A After U.S. District Court

"'.. : 
" federal judge, citing prose-Judge Warren J. Ferguson act­'\ cution misconduct, dismissed ed, DeMarco, Nixon's former :\ all charges Thursday against tax lawyer, said: "I just feel 'i Frank DeMarco Jr., accused of good.... I don't think the gov­h obstructing investigations into ernment proved the essential 
an illegal $576,000 tax deduction elements of either count." 
by former President Richard The defense had asked for a 
Nixon. _______...:.:n~li=s..::..::trc...:.i.=.al:........::o:..:.n:...._j;g:z.:..ro unds that the
~ 
'l 
I 


11 Ford's political head up 
~ 

1j to 'dirty tricks' during 60's 
) WASHINGTON (AP) 
':o-; 
Stuart Spencer, recently named< political director of President Ford's 1976 presidential effort,~ ran a campaigning school in the 1960s which taught politi­cians tricks such as phone tap­ping and spying, according to the Scripps-Howard news­~ papers. Spencer, a Los Angeles politi­~1 cal strategist, denied the accu­y sation, which Scripps-Howard ,, said came from political con­\) sultant Raymond V. Humph­reys and three unnamed
\ 
sources who also attended the campaign courses. The sources called Spencer the original "dirty trickster," 
~ 
I 
teaching his followers it is "not how you play the game that counts. it is whether you win or lose," according to Scripps­Howard. 
Spencer now is the No. 2 man 
on the Ford campaign team. Scripps-Howard said its four 
sources  contend  that  when  
Spencer  and  an  associate  
taught  a  series of congressional  

campaign management semi­nars in the late 1960s, they taught how to bug, spy on and disrupt the campaign of oppos­ing candidates. 
"I must say, I was shocked when I left," said Humphreys, now a political consultant in Washington. "I'm in politics be­cause I feel I'm making a con­I ribution -and I don't regard political buggery as a good way to make a contribution." 
Spencer, who got his job with the Ford campaign when GOP organizer Lee Nunn quit last week, said, "I've never done it. Just look at the campaigns I have run. The record shows we have never been involved in any of that. It makes me sick 
prosecution withheld evidence 
it used Tuesday that allegedly
showed DeMarco had told the Watergate special prosecutor's office that he lied about his role 
in the Nixon tax claim. DeMarco originally faced five counts in connection with a 
backdated deed giving Nixon's 

vice presidential papers to the; 3114 S. 11 St. NILES, MICHIGA-N: National Archives. Three of the .... • counts were dropped earlier ; "BIGGEST LITTLE : and the final two, obstructing a LlnUOR STORE IN MTr.J.ITr..ll N" • congressional investigation and ~•••••••~••••••••••••••••11 • .,.1\l"l'lllll&\'\••••4 giving false answers to the In-...--------~------"'-------------, 
ternal Revenue Service, were dismissed Thursday. 
The government contended DeMarco had attempted to help hide the fact that the actual deed turning over the papers was not signed until 1970 after a law took effect disallowing such donations for tax pur­poses. 
The deed was backdated to March 27, 1969, the government said. The National Archives gift was part of tax problems that confronted Nixon and led to his paying the government $465,000. 
Ferguson said the govern-

m~r Qlolonial ­1Jancnkr ~nust 

~~~~ 

''Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
!$=:::::~:::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::' 
:::: 35 V<lrieties of Pancakes ::: 
}chrck:'n Steal< Sandwiches ;~; /Friday Nites: Perch Dinners~:~ :~:::::::::::::;.:::::=:·:·:·:·:-!~:·:::::·:::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:~ 
Your Ho...,t

U S 31 ( Di x ieWc1Y) North (Across from Holtday Inn) Bob Edwards, ND '50. 
ment had deprived DeMarco of '------------------------­a fair trial and added: ''Th~ is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
a sad thing that happened." DeMarco said he was unsure 
when  he  would  resume  his  law  
practice.  He  added  he  intended  
to  "take  a  couple of  weeks  off  
and  get  to  know  my  kids  


to think about it." again." 
~ 
~ FRIDAY-SATURDAY 
~ 
MIDNIGHT SHOW

1) 
More than a movie! ~ An exploslwe cinema concert! 




~ PINK~ 
~ 
I• 
_....... 

\" ~' . ,., "\ v \, \ 

night," and appealed for the "good will" of the international community to solve the case and find a country for the refu­gees. 
They seized 14 hostages origi­
nally  but  released  the  eight  
women  among  them  in  a  ges­ 
ture of good will and  an  Argen­ 

tine man who had suffered an epileptic attack. 
The spokesman said the refu­gees had revolvers and a hand grenade and threatened-to kill the hostages or blow everyone up if the police moved in. Po­lice said they had orders not to interfere. 
The group's main demand was to leave the country, but they also said they wanted to dramatize the plight of Latin refugees in Argentina. 
They criticized "backward 
U.N. officials" for allegedly neglecting to make sure refu­gees had jobs, food and living arrangements. 
Estimates of the number of Chilean refugees range from 5,­000 to 20,000 in Argentina. They came after the 1973 right-wing military coup in which Presi­dent Salvador Allende died . 
SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15 p.m. Sat. 
9:30 a.m. Sun. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. 

(Main Church) 
Fr. Sean Kolasa C.S.C. Fr. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. Fr. Claude Pomerleau, C.S.C Fr Bill Toohey, C.S.C. 

:.···r··I·M····M·····p··A···R···r··y·••s·r··;.a:;.r.·E······=·
u n 

:• OPEN ·. MON _ SAT 9am _ 11 pm •. .: SUNDAY 12noon -1 1 pm .: : COLD BEER,WINE, LIQUOR, :
i GORMET FQQOS : 
• 






FrPnll 
II 

WPnlliiYS 
HAPPY HOUR DAILY 4 -7 
Free cheese and crackers 
Monday  -Football Night  
GIANT 7' SCREEN  
Tuesday  -Free Movies 9:00  

Wednesday-Ladies' Night (complete disco format) SATURDAY FOOTBALL SPECIAL 
open at 9:00a.m. Large Sausage Pizza $2.88 carry out 277-0570 2046~ South Bend Aveo:z• 
\ . 
Paralyzed golfer still playing 
POMPANO BEACH, Fla. the links and shooting in the ation tournament, wants to de-July 21, 1974, severing his spin­<AP) -Former golf profes-high 70s. vote his life to teaching 200,000 al cord. sional Dennis Walters, paral-Now the former North Texas other paraplegics how to play "I want to give other paral­yzed from the waist down two State University golfer, who golf. yzed victims a sense of hope," years ago at age 24 in a freak finished 20th in the 1970 Nation-Walters hasn't walked since a said Walters, who also said he golf cart accident, is back on al Collegiate Athletic Associ-golf cart overturned on him once considered suicide after 
his accident. "And if I can just
Irish host trackinvitational~:~e 7~~ill~~her:;y~~!~?· will
I 

Jerry Volpe, a golf pro near 
by Mike Towle 

The 20th running of the Notre Dame hwitational will be held on the Burke Memorial Golf Course Friday. This annual cross-country spectacle is the largest of its kind in the nation and attracts numerous midwest powers. 
Defending Big  Ten  and  Notre  
Dame  Invitational  champion,  
1\lichigan, will  return  along with  

Eastern Michigan, last year's Mid-American Conference and NCAA District Four Winners. The field is expected to reach 30 teams and 250 runners and will also include Wisconsin, Northwestern, Purdue and Notre Dame. 
Dave Smith and Tom Hollander, Eastern Michigan teammates, tied for individual honors in 1974. Smith returns along with Nick Ellis and Dave Burkhart, giving the Hurons a nucleus that makes them a pre-meet favorite. 
, Michi2an 's Gree; Meyer placed fourth~ as a soph-more last year. Added support form Jon Cross, l\1 ike McGuire and Bill Donakowski establishes the Wolverines as a good bet to repeat their win of a year ago. 
The host Irish. under first year head coach Joe Piane, have one of their fastest squads this year. Captain Jim Hurt and fellow senior. Joe Yates have performed well this fall and are candidates for All-American status. Notre Dame's third man, Jim Reinhart, has also looked impressive and with freshman sensations, Steve Welsh and Dennis Vanderkraats, the Irish ~rea team to reckon with. 
"Our five-mile course is quite flat and one of the fastest in this part of the country," saya Piane. "Because it is an early season meet. many runners are induced to come and run good times so they can have a base to improve on for the rest of the fall." 

~··········•••••+••••..···········~ 
! CINEMA 76 ~ 
* •
* Harry Caul will go anywhere to bug a private conversation. ** 
~ The Oire<tors Componw ptesents • ·, · 
* Ciene Hackmanw,
* ~~The
*
* " 
* 
W"tten Produced & Dorected by 

~ Fmncis ford Coppola
* ~ Cotor by TECHNICOLOR • ~······. ...... Gt AParamountP•cluresRelease :·~.·..:1 .-,..-:.~-~~
* 
*
! Thurs. & Fri. Oct. 9 & 10 ~ * 8 and 10 p.m. * ! Adrnission s1.00 Eng. Aud. ! 
+...........~···············~......~ 
* ~ 
* 
* 
*
*~ 
* 
* 
:+
* 

1m mediately following the in­Yitational. the Notre Dame open will run. Included among its participants are those team runners not among the seven-man limit for teams in the invitational and some of the top unattached runners in the country. 
"The Open is also a highly eompetetive race," states Piane. "This year, we are expecting Ken Popejoy. a sub-four-minute miler and Pat Mandera, who has qualified for the Pan American Games." 
The Notre Dame Invitational will get underway at 2PM and is open to the public. 
Pompano Beach, said he has been beaten by Walters and terms his desire and perform­ance "unreal." 
Volpe said other paralyzed golfers could follow Walters "because the prime reason fo distance in a golf shot is your swing... your legs just give you maybe 50 yards more dis­tance. Dennis can't turn his 
body,  yet  he  hits it  like  a  can­ 
non."  
Walters,  a  native  of  Neptune,  
N.J..  spends  part  of  his  time  
visiting  area  hospitals and  clin­ 

ics to display his skill. 
"If I can do it, other paral­yzed people can do it also," he said. 
Walters, who treasures let­
ters of admiration and encour­
gement from Jack Nicklaus 
and President Ford, rides in a 
custom, swivel-seat golf cart 
complete with seat belt. He 
uses crutches to drag his iron­
braced legs to greens and putts 
with his right hand while 
steadying himself on a crutch 
with his left. 
"Golf has been the motivat­
ing force in my life. I couldn't 
give that up. It's my whole 
life," said Walters, who played 
against Gary Player in South 
African tournaments before his 
injury. 

"My best finish was lOth, and 
Gary told me that I was one of 
the best upcoming golfers on 
the pro tour," he said. 
Spokesmen for two national 
paraplegic organizations said 
Walters is the only known para­
plegic golfer playing daily in 
the United States. 
Walters compensates for his hips and legs with strong arms and timing. 

the plush

George Graves 
now appearing in the Mail Pouch Hoom 
i 



CAPER 
(This weekend no cover 
charge with student J.D.) HAPPY HOUR Mon.-Fri. 4:00-7:30 LADIES' NIGHT Tues. 8:00-10:00 MEN'S NIGHT Thurs. 8:00-10:00 
EVERY MONDAY-REDUCED PRICES ON BEER AND BAR DRINKS 
Appropriate attire required for admittance 
PIZZAS, SNAt~KS & SANDWICHES SERVED ANYTIME 
7 ft. TV screen for Monday night football. 
.........~....-· ~ America·tHeE 
5HiADou8aARTER5 A Week 
............ 

L PARKMOR PLAZA, IRISTOL ST. (IYPASS 11 '2) ELKHART 
WANTED 
NE'E'd 2 Beach Boys tix. Cali 287­0742 
NE'E'd 2 or 4 GA USC tix. Call Jean 7034 
Female house mate wanted. Two blocks from Angela. Call after 5pm. 289-4303 
Help! need 2 GA tix for Georgia Tech. Call Mike G. 1624 
Desperately need 2 GA Navy tix. Money no object. Call John 1462 
HeHelp! Desperately need ride to NYC area weekend of Oct. 17. Will share expenses and driving. Call Jen 7248 
Needed GA Southern Cal. tix. Call 6896 
NE'E'ded: 2 uSc tix. Call Sue 8116 
Wanted: Need 5 or 6 GA USC tix. Call Mary Beth 1285 
NE'E'd 5 GA Navy fix. Call 5169 
Need help of engineering student or prof. in development of simple invention. ca II Mario Rivera. 7735 or 7736. leave message. 
Would you Iike to be held responsible for my loss of parental financial assistance? Please sell me your USC ticket! Lisa 1297 
Need 4 GA tix for Georgia Tech. 
game.  Call 4-5740  
Help!  Need  2 GA tix to  Georgia  
Tech.  Call Jim 1188  

1 still need s. Cal. tix. Please call Mary at 4-409 3 
Desperately need USC tix. Will pay well. 7937, please 
NE'E'd two GA USC tix. Will pay unlimited Coors and-or $. Joe 6701 or 6795 
NE'E'd 2 GA tix for Georgia Tech. gamE'. Call L isa, 8089 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
NE'E'd riders from Milwaukee. Leave Sunday. Call 33881715, AI 
Need 2 USC tix. Call Ruth 6173 
Desperately need 1 USC ticket. Will pay well. Call Mark 1474 
Desperately need ride to Pitt. sburgh 17th. Will share expenses. Please call Michele at 'I/7-1567 
Wanted: one ticket to any home game. Call John 1620 
Desperately need two Southern Cal. tix. Call Bob 3665 
NE'E'd 9 GA tickets to Navy, not necessarily together. Call Chip 1636 
Need ride to Milwaukee on Oct. 10 or Oct 17 . Will share expenses. Ca II Cindy 5486 
Desperately need ride to Dayton, Ohio. Weekend of Oct. 17. Lisa 4634 
Need 3 USC tickets. Ca II Mike aft­er 6 pm. 288 -0088 
NE'E'd ride toN eenah, WI. Call Ron 3374 
Would like Beach Boy tickpts in first few rows. Will pay... Call Tim or Chris at 27 2-1400 
Need lots of Navy GA fix. Don 3755 
Need 2 Beach Boy fi)(. Call John 1800 
Surprise! I don't need tickets. Desperah:•ly need a motel room in South Bend a rea. Oct. 24 and 25. Call Beth, 524 2 

NE'E'ded: Two GA Southern Cal. Tix. Please call John at 3467 
Need 4 GA USC tickets. Call George 3651 
All I want out of life are GA tix to Georgia Tech. Will buy 2 to 5 tickets. Please call 6661 
FOR SALE 
G.E. cassett player with built-in 
Mic. and AM-FM radio, plus 3 casspttes in eluded: Chicago 
(VIII) Elton John, (Yellow Brick Road) Moody Blues, CSevPnth Sojourn> $65. Ca II 1541 
Quality Stereo Components at 20 percent savings. RMS Audio 321 S. Main 288-1681 12·7 pm 
1 ND jacket. Blue with gold sleevE's. 287-5218 Bryan 
Selling 2 GA tix to North Carolina. Can be picked up at the hotel where th£> football team is staying. Call 7471 
NOTICES 
Typing  -35 cents per page.  Call  
Dan 272-5549  
Accurate,  fast  typing.  Mrs.  

Donoho 232-07 46 
Now open for business. Flanner rPcords. 807 F lanner. Phone 1488. Records in stock and on order. All new $6.98 LP •s for $4.55. New . Allman Bros., Edgar Winter, Marshall Tucker, Crosby, Nash, Jefferson Sta rsh ip, Jethro Tull. 
Junior League Thrift Shop. Over 
30.000 items. New and used clothing, furniture, housewares, etc. 4-H Fair Grounds Sat., Oct. 11 9am-5pm Free parking and Ad­mission. 
Quick· Loans! Morrissey Loan Furid -up to suo. 30 days at 1 percent interest. Basement of La Fortune. M-Ft 11:15-12:15
.· 
Typing . Former executive secretary. I; xperienced in senior essays, dissertations. 232·5715 
PERSONALS 
-------;-­
Jennifer and Margie: Our pleasure... but did you know we got raped on the way home! 
Butch  & Sundance  
Liz, Oops! Elizabeth. hday. "Be patient. too."  Happy He's  Birt­loose  
Dear Kat and  Dot,  

It's nice having you play in my drawers. Come often. 
Nirvana 
To "the boys", We want to score. but who's playing the game? The Babes of 4th floor B-P 
Reenie Bikine. 
Happy Birthday! But even in 20 years you never got what the Snapper got. 
The Zipper 
Take Debbie Z. out for S & L on Sunday, her 20th birthday. Call 4777 
Debbie Z-Happy birthday, and 1 love you · Tim S. 
Debbie Z. Birthday wishes from ltle man in the black die k ie. 
Happy Birthday Debbie, From Raou I the Arabian 
Goodbye, Gaughan, Goodbye. All the Young Dogs. 
Mary T.: I would've loved to have seen you "capped", but you probably wouldn't have talked to me. Congrats! 
Tom 

CLunch next week?) 
Fall Retreat. old college with Morton Kelsey. "How to love• •oct. 17,18,19 sign up Campus Ministry office. 103 Library. S6 fee. 
LOST & FOUND 
black,pla stic 3-ring binder containing organic chemistry handouts. If found, call 7975. 
Lost: '77 cia ss ring -Friday in O'Shag. Peward. Call 1079. 
Found: Silver bracelet with name "Vicki." Call Bryan 287 5218. 
Lost: man's gold ring with black onyx setting . lost between D-1 and North Dining Hall. Reward. Call 3334. 
Lost: in Eng inPering Bldg, gym bag and Adidas. Reward. 8276. 
Lost: I watch with black band by reflecting pool, Friday nite. Call f\Aary 2145. 
Found: 1 Cinema '75 ticket. 9-27. Call 8118. 
Found: on North Quad, half-grown white cat with grey smudge on head-Call 1314 or 1618. 
FOR RENT 
Exceptional room, no smokers, Breakfast privileges; near bus. Call 232·8838. 
Rent my upstairs 2 rooms $50. 233· 1329 Keep trying 
Large room in student's house near Corby's: 618 St. Peter St. S60 per mon _th. All charges included 
1 Two furnished rooms. Apartment 
for female. Utilities paid. S65 219· 
8727 
.. 

Jl ' ' 
12 the observer Friday, October 10, 1t7s 



Battered Irish face North 
rolina 

By Bill Brink Sports Editor 
The game is North Carolina vs. Notre Dame, tomorrow in Chapel Hill. North Carolina. 
F'ew people know very much about the Tar Heels, and when the Irish t a:.e the field for the first time in llNC's Kenan Stadium, you may not recognize them either. 
Injuries (or reinjuries) suffered in last week's defeat at the hands of Michigan State have made ND trainer Gene Paszkiet the busiest person around this week, and has injected a handful of new faces into the Irish starting lineup. 
"l'm-not counting on any mirac­
ulous recoveries," says head coach 
Dan Devine. "Our biggest 
problem this week will be to 
rebound from a dissappointing loss 
and to find replacements for our 
ir;jured people." 
Moreover, the injuries have 
compounded the problem of just 
who will make the trip, since the 48 
player travel squad limit is in 
effect. The uncertain status of 
several players has kept the exact 
traveling team in doubt. 
Whoever travels will have their 
hands full. Bill Dooley's Tar Heels 
are 2-2, one of the losses coming 
against Number 1 Ohio State, and 
they have one of the most potent 
offensive threats in the country. 
If that's hard to believe, consider 
that Carolina's James (Boom 
Boom) Betterson and Mike Voight 
both gained over1,000 yards last 
season, while alternating at the 
tailbad position. Both also 
averaged over five yards per 

carry. Combined with the sprint­coached team," comments out quarterbacking of Billy Devine, "Bill Dooley's versatile Paschall, they make for a wide­offensive unit presents problems open offensive attack. we haven't had to prepare for yet Paschal will be throwing to split this year. North Carolina used te 
end Ray Stanford and tight end Veer against Maryland and this Mike Corbin, both of whom saw lit­past week they ran from the Slot-I. tie action last season. . . The of­We'll obviously have to spend time fensive line is also relatively new. preparing for both offenses." 
. Center Mark Cantrell and tackle The Tar Heel defense returns six Mark Griffin are excellent, but the starters from last season, but other starters are inexperienced. needed a lot of work after giving up "North Carolina is a well-over 4,000 total yards last year. 

James BeHerson and Mike Voight both gained over 1000 yards last year. (Photo by Paul Joyce.) 
Bill 



The Irish Eye 
:====================================================~=~===~=~=~=~=~=~===============================================================================================================================· Footba11 picks 

Ohio State has taken over the number one position in the polls by virtue of their 41-20 romp over UCLA Saturday night. They replace Oklahoma, who sur­vived a narrow escape against Colorado in their first Big Eight contest. 
Iowa's football team threw a scare into Southern Cal by taking an early lead, but not even the beer cans that were showered upon the USC bench could hold off the Trojans, who rebounded to win 27-16. Michigan meanwhile, found its offense and beat Missouri, who was playing without star runner Tony Galbreath. 
Texas and Texas A&M both won and West Virginia survived a threat in Dallas from SMU to head into their match with Penn St. tomorrow undefeated. And of course, Michigan State got just what they needed to help get them ready for the Wolverines this weekend by knocking off the Irish 10-3. 


< Here are the Irish Eye's picks: ;j ~otre Dame at North Carolina: Instead of having t­rouble cutting down the traveling squad to 48 players,
.1 
the Irish may have trouble rounding up enough l healthy players to go. Even without some regular st­
'' ' arters, lost due to injuries, Notre Dame has enough to 
beat the Tar Heels, if they don't give the ball away. N.D. by 10. Arkansas at Baylor: Grant Teaff's Bears looked tough in ties against Auburn and Michigan, then t­urned around last week and got soundly beat by South Carolina. They have Cleveland Franklin running 126 yards per game, but the Razorbacks have Jerry Eck­wood going for 151, second in the nation. If Baylor can duplicate their earlier performances, they'll win. • Baylor by 7 LSlT at Tennessee: The Tigers have not been im­pressive this season, either at home or away. Ten­nessee has had a week off to get ready, or rusty, but it won't matter. Their defense shouldn't have much t­rouble caging the Bengals. Volunteers by 14. Oklahoma St. at Missouri: No one expected this to be a big match at the biginning of the season, but both squads have surprised everyone. The Cowboys are undefeated, and have an excellent kicking game. Missouri went nowhere against Michigan last week, and that shows just how much they need Tony Galbreath. Without him, it'll be tough. Missouri by 3. Texas Tech at Texas A&M: The Aggies lead the country in total defense and rushing defense. Bubba, Skip, and Bucky <Dean, Walker and Sams respec­tively) are providing 319 yards per game on the ground. Enough said. Aggies by 17. i'Oorth Carolina St. at Maryland: A freshman sen­sation four years ago, Wolfpack quarterback Dave Buckv now heads a fine offense that boasts three fine fresh~en runners. The Terrapins chalked up an impressive win at Syracuse last week. so this ACC battle will be close. State by 7. Cl'~orado at Miami (Fla>: The Hurricanes have 

probably had their fill of Big Eight contests, but fh.­ey've got one more tomorrow that they just might come out ahead in. The Buffaloes may be down after they blew their chance to upset Oklahoma last week. If Colorado is on their toes, they'll win, by 6. Indiana at Northwestern: Both teams are 2-2, but 0-2 against good teams. The Wildcats potent running game, led by Greg Boykin, gives them the edge. NU by 7. Wisconsin at Purdue: This week starts a 'new season' says Purdue coach Alex Agase, but he probably won't start it out any better than the old one. 
The Badger's disappointing season will look a little better after tomorrow. Wisconsin by 10. UCLA at Stanford: This should be a wild one. The Cardinals will have the ball in the air all day, and who can blame them. QB Mike Cordova is second in the nation in passing, and he has the college's number one receiver, Tony Hill. The Bruins defense proved itself shaky last week, but John Sciarra should put some points on the scoreboard. It may be 100-97, but make it UCLA by 3. West Virginia at Penn St.: This clash pits the best in the east against each other. The Mountaineers are unbeaten, and averaging over 400 yards per gave total offense. But this is their first really big test. The Nittany Lions will be ready for them. Joe Paterno's boys are waiting to show these upstarts just who's boss East of Ohio. Penn St. by 7. \'andt>rbilt at Florida: The Gators score and score, fifth in the nation in total offense. As long as they keep the ball a lot they'll be all right. Florida by 10. Michigan at Michigan St.: Both teams revitalized their spirit with impressive victories last week. The Wolverines rancrazy last week, as Gordon Bell, Rob Lytle and Harlan Huckleby helped total 372 yds. on the ground. State just plain went crazy, getting super-psyched and downing the Irish 10-3. But this week they'll find that the Michigan defense is not quite as easy to crack as a blackboard. Wolverines by 7. Kansas at Nebraska: This will be a real good Big Eight contest. The Jayhawks swamped Wisconsin last Saturday, and are averaging 317 yards rushing per game. ~ut the Cornhuskers get the edge here because the game's at Lincoln, and Tom Osborne's defense is second to Texas A&M. Nebraska by 7. l1pst>t of the Week: Texas over Oklahoma. After two years of getting caught, last week the Sooners finally excaped. It took a missed extra point to bail out Barry Switzer's boys, and you can bet your redshirts that Texas is anxious. They came within three last year in Norman, Okla. and with the home advantage, and the number one offense in the country they might make the Sooners consider going straight--home, that is. 
Last week, 11-4, .733 per cent. Season, 42-14, .750 per cent. 
This year the Carolina defense has been an active one, with a lot of movement and alignment swit­ches. 
"They have a firing, kamikaze type defense that can give you the big play." syas Devine. "We have to be sure to rebound from last Sat­urday's game." The Tar Heel line is led by junior tackle Rod Broadway, a 250 pounder who is strong and quick. End Bill Perdue started every game last season. Chuck Austin will be at the other end, while Dee Hardison joins Broadway at tackle. 
UNC's linebackers are all new and inexperienced, with junior Bill Murphy the best of the lot. The secondary however is a bright spot for the Tar Heels. Cornerbacks Russ Conley and safeties Ronny Johnson and Bobby Trott are all back from last year and combine to make up the most solid area of the defense. 
The Irish meanwhile, couldstart as many as seven ~la}'ers that did not start in the opening game 
against Boston College. Ankle injuries have sidelined Ross Br­owner, Doug Becker, and Pat Pohlen. Harry Woebkenberg, and and AI Hunter injured their backs against the Spartans. Jim Browner has a knee sprain that will keep him out for about four weeks, and Randy Harrison has 
tendonitis. 
Hight now, it is doubtful whether l'ither Browner brother will travel to C'hapel Hill, and Becker will not likely see action either. Woebkenberg is still in the hospit­al. Harrison and Hunter were back practicing and will most likely play ,though tey may not start. Pohlen is the only probable star­ter. Elsewhere, Ted Burgmier has relinquished the split end dut­ies and will work second team offense and defense. Chris Haines and Dan Kellaher will share the receiving spot. Freshman Bob Golic has retained the middle guard spot that he took over from Tom Eastman two weeks ago. 
Slated to replace the corps of injured are Tony Zappala for Browner at defensive end, Steve Heimkreiter for Becker at linebacker and Jerome Heavens for Jim Browner at fullback. Terry Eurick will be the halfback if Hunter is not ready and Tim Simon will get the nod at free safety if Harrison cannot play. 
Tomorrow's game, one of the Irish's rare clashes with an ACC team. is the 16th meeting between the Tar Heels and Notre Dame. T­he Irish lead the series 14-1, the only defeat being a 12-7loss in 1960. 
Carolina hasn't scored against ND 
in the last three contests. 
The Irish .are seventh in the nation in total defense, giving up an average of 204 yards per game. All-America candidate Steve Niehaus leads the team in tackles with 41. Doug Becker has 40. Offensively, Jim Browner is the leading offensive producer with 283 yards rushing. AI Hunter has 226. Hick Slager has been named the starting quartrback for the North Carolina game, and he is 20 rfor 41 for the season for a .525 per­centage. 
Tomorrow's game begins at 1:30 EDT and will be televised on WNDU South Bend. 



Reaching Expectations 

"We were really psyched ... " 

''I don't know, it was just one of those days ... '' 
"We may have been nervous ... " 

"It was a very, very physical ballgame ... " 
"They were really sticking ... " 

''I still think we won the battles of the trenches ... '' 
"I feel worse about this loss than any other. .. " 
"It's super to beat Notre Dame... " 

As each day of the week passes, the thoughts, comments and ex­
planations of last Saturday's game begin to fade. But the only thing 
which even time cannot erase is the hurt which lingers in each of us. 
It is not a physical nor an egotistical hurt but rather something which 
reaches even deeper. I am speaking of that lingering feeling which is 
most acute amongst the team and its coaches. 
The feeling is one which stems from an inability to meet our own ex­pectations. Expectations which were justifiably set high but for this or that reason have yet to be acheived. 
At a time like this it may be proper to take a step back and try to re-examine the situation. We are now a much more mature team, a more physical team, and a more dedicated team. A group who has had the advantage of sitting down and seeing just what you can and can't do if you want to win. Ateamwho knows the tradition can only live on as far as you are willing to carry it. this lesson had a tremendous price---a loss. 
To say that we were only a split second off, a foot wide or two yards short of success would be a terrible misnomer. Success cannot be judged in such narrow terms. Instead, success must be studied from a much 
wider viewpoint. Our mistakes are behind us and it is what we do with our recent ex­periences which matters. We as a team now realize the great op­portunities which lie before us. We know the caliber of teams and demands of our schedule which we face. We also realize that at the end of the season there is seldom an unbeaten team remaining, but any number of schools with "1" defeat. We also have come to realize that an in­dividual game, won or lost, doesn't make a season. Therefore we have rededicated ourselves to those same high ideals which caused so much pain in the begiqning and are now willing to pay the price to achieve them. Finally our team will judge our success, not now, but in those cold snowy days of December. The ultimate judgement will be based on how we as a team, as individual playersand as students meet the challenges and opportunities of the '75 season. 






