
--~-------------------------------------­
Before large Keenan-Stanford audience 
Campaign concludes with debate 
unrversity of notre dame -st~ mary's college 
Vol. IX, No. 94 
Wednesday, March 5, 1975 

Economic priorities examined 
Budget cornrnittee proposed 
by Mary Pat Tarpey Staff Reporter 
Candidates for student body president and vice­president, Ed Byrne-Tom Fitzgerald and Joe Corpora-Jim Spurling, concluded their campaigns with a debate attended by over one hundred students in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel last night. 
The debate. which preceeded the election run-Qff to be held today, began with a platform presentation 
-~each 
STUDENT BODY candidates debated platforms last night in Keenan-Stanford chapel. Richard Hebert moderated as Ed Byrne, Tom Fitzgerald, Jim Spurling and Joe Corpora made their final cam­paign appearances. {Photo by Paul Joyce). 
Byrne expressed his feeling that student support is needed to obtain a strong Student Government. "In the wake of a recent Observer editorial I feel an urgency about the turnout of the voters on Wed­nesday." Byrne said. "No matter who wins, the Committees on Undergraduate Life is going to go a long way in obtaining Board of Trustees' support for many student issues." 
Corpora also stressed the importance of voter turnout in his opening remarks, "We hope that you'll vote, and also get everyone you know to vote. 
It's really important," Corpora said. 
Corpora stated that he and his running mate were supporting a platform which centered on the theme of "Improved Communications and Student 1m­put". He justified this theme by explaining that so much stress is placed on these two points that they are the most important issues. "We have a plat­form which has a lot of points on it that we feel will bring about better communication and more student imput," he said. 
Platforms differ 

The basic thrust of the Byrne-Fitzgerald platform differed from that of Corpora-Spurling. "Our platform describes the manner in which we intend to make Student Government more able to deal with the many ramifications of the Committee on Un­dergraduate Life," Byrne said. "As far as organization goes, it won't be radical 
or time consuming. We have just small structural changes concerning the post of treasurer." 
Byrne continued, "We want to set up a cabinet which would include leaders from SLC, HPC, Academic Commissions, Ombudsman Service and people working on the Hunger co-alition." 
In keeping with his platform, Fitzgerald em­phasized the importance of the Committee on llndergraduate Life to Board of Trustee-student reactions. 
"One ramification concerns the Committee on 

llndergraduate Life and that is direct input to the 
Board of Trustees. That's so essential to get to 
those people. Maybe the administration ean bumpt 
the students, but if we can get the Board of Trustees 
behind us we can go a long way in implementing the 
things we're going to be bringing up to them," 
f<'itzgerald said. 

by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter 

Economics Professor Thomas Swartz yesterday hailed the proposed Budget Priorities Committee as "a major step forward." The proposal was submitted to the Academic Council Monday by Fr. Edmund P. Joyce, executive vice-president and university treasurer. 
Swartz, an Academic Council member and former president of the f<'aculty Senate, noted, "I only hope this won't be an ad hoc committee, but a permanent body. And I think it's very significant that the deans of the colleges will have input for the first time in Notre Dame's history." 
"ln fact." Swartz said, "I find it bizarre that they haven't in the past." Formerly deans of the separate colleges were included through the process of requesting funds. but had no say in the final allocation of funds. 
Under the plan outlined by Joyce, University budget priorities would be directed by a committee composed of the president, the provost, the main financial of­ficers, the college deans, and several faculty representatives. 
Swartz expressed a desire that the faculty representatives be elected and not appointed by the administration. "I feel this is very important for the credibility of the committee," he explained, notmg that the elective status of the representatives would help avoid "undue suspicion" of the com­mittee's actio.,s. 
The ~orth ( ntra, Accreditation Heport of 19'14 noted that the budget-making process "needs to be better understood at the faculty and middle-management level, where in some quarters there seemsto be a lack of information, uncertainty and unnecessary suspicion." 
James Cushing, current president of the faculty senate also emphasized the necessity of having elected faculty representatives on the budget committee. The Faculty Senate presented its own proposal for such a committee earlier this year. 
The Budget Priorities Com­mittee suggested by the Faculty Senate would be composed of one faculty member from each of the four undergraduate colleges, the law school,and the library in ad­dition to a University Staff representative, a student, and the present Executive Budget Com­mittee. 
The plan outlined by Joyce makes no provisions for either staff or student representation. 
"Mv initial reaction to student representation," said Swartz, "is the same as the administration's initial reaction to faculty representation: They won't have enough time. They won't have enough interest." 
"I wouldn't object to student representation, however," Swartz continued. "Some student representation might be desirable." 
Swartz admitted that the role of students in a university makes student input into budgetary decisions "reasonable." 
"It might be important !'imply for information and, again, credibility," Swartz reasoned. "I don't know just how much impact 
either students or faculty will have 
on the final decision." 
It is impossible to predict whether or not the University will avoid a deficit in urn and 1978, Swartz explained, because the issue is so closely tied to the national economy. "The next 6 months are critical," he satted. "If the steam is taken out of in­flation, the probability of deficit will be reduced. It's wise to an­ticipate that it won't,however, and plan for the worst." 
Swartz also commented on Joyce's proposal that the University rely on gifts to un­derwrite the cost of building construction and renovation, and the effect that proposal would have on the building of a graduate student complex. 
"Clearly, anytime you're dependent on t•xogenous gifts, and such a project calls for a large number of them, you'll be less likely to get it," Swartz explained. "This is not a good time to an­ticipate large gifts for buildings-­or anything for that matter." 
"Donors arenot in a position to give, "he continued, citing the current poor status of the stock market as one cause for the problem. 
Concerning the possibility of reserve funds being used for the construction of the graduate housing, Swartz stated, "This is the significance of the Budget Priorities Committee. Someone has to decide where the money is going to go." 
The Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees will consider the proposal for a Budget Priorities committee at its meeting later this month. 

ln his opening presentation. During the question and answer Spurling. Corpora's running -rna te, session, Corpora explained several added that their ticket differed things which he and Spurling have from that of Byrne-Fitzgerald in (continued on page 6) one important aspect. 
"Implementation does not mean Voting times a thing until we can prove to the Board of Trustees and the Board of announced Commissioners -etc., that Student (;overnment is an effective, viable, All Notre Dame undergraduates ,·isible and vocal thing," Spurling are eligible to vote in today's 
said. "Until then all the im­t•lection of the next student body 
plemt•ntation on the Board of president and vice-president. Trustees isn't going to mean a On cam pus students will vote in thing." lht•ir residence halls during the 
Spurling then compared the two , mt>al hours. II ::10 a.m. to I p.m. platforms. "We think they've got a a111l ;i to 6::10 p.m. Off-campus few good ideas we also see a lot of studt"nts may vote in the Huddle holes in their platform. holes that hf'IWf"en II 11.• 111. and 5 p.m. they will not find in our platform," No write-in or blank ballots will 
he said. ht> counted as valid. 
Faculty Senate votes on courses of action by Kathy Mills Staff Reporter 
Acting _on the results of the recently-conducted referendum among all faculty members, the Faculty Senate last night voted to pursue several courses of action regarding university governance. As of yesterday morning's tabulation by Senate Chairman Professor James Cushing, 66 percent of the faculty responded to the referendum. However, ten ballots remained to be counted at the time of the compilation of results. 
According to the voting outcome of the referendum, 76percent of the faculty who responded favor establishing a budget priorities t•ommittee. In view of Father Joyce's suggestion made Monday to PStablish such a committee, the Senate passed a motion to send Joyce a letter which would indicate the Senate's "pleasure" at his interest in a budget priorities committee, and would contain an offer to "implement Joyce's suggestion and the Senate's desire." 


THE FACULTY Senate passed a motion last night to send a letter to Fr. Joyce, executive vice-president and university treasurer, stating their pleasure at his suggestion to establish a Budget Priorities Committee. {Photo by Paul Joyce). 
The referendum results also indicated that 73 percent of the faculty members who voted endorse a request by the Senate for t~e ~dm~nistration to "make available to the faculty each year a d1str1butJon of academic-year salaries for each rank." On the basis oft~is. th_e Senate voted to make another formal request to the ad­mmlstrat~on and str~s~ that this request was one of <Ill the faculty. 
On the 1ssue of rehgwus preference in hiring at Notre Dame 66 percent of the responding faculty firmly reject a hiring ~nd promition policy in which religious affiliation plays a part. The f<'aculty Senate, acting on this figure, approved a recommendation of the ~xecutiv~ ~ommitte~ ~o send a letter to the board stating the faculty s oppos1tJon to rehgwus preference in hiring. 
Seeking a collective bargaining agent at Notre Dame to represent the faculty received the support of 22 percent of faculty who responded to the referendum,while 45 percent indicated that they would like to see more information about and discussion of eollective bargaining at Notre Dame. The Senate decided from this mdicati?n to i_nitiate an informational program on collective bargammg w1th the American Association of University

Professors. Since 60_ percent of the faculty members showed that they cons1der flhng a Faculty Service Report with the respective ?epartment chairmen unnecessary, the Senate voted to put this 1ssue on the agenda of the Academic Council and recommend that such a report not be implemented. Although 75 percent of the faculty voted in favor of instituting a strong Committee on Appointments and Promotions, the Faculty Senate defeated amotion to send a specific proposal on CAP to the Aeademic Council this semester. However, the Senate has em­powered a subcommittee to devise a specific proposal on CAP structure. Regarding the issue of evaluation of administration by the faculty'. 70 percent of the faculty favor the proposal, 18 percent oppose 1t. and 11 percent express opinion on the issue. Acting from these results, the Faculty Senate is working on an form for the l'valuatwn of administrators. On the question of salary, 76percent of the faculty do not find the $600 one-time cost of living supplement given in December "~dequate response to faculty salary needs." In agreement with th1s, 72 percent of the faculty voted in favor of a proposal for total 
compensation increase of "no less that $1400 with a minimum of $1200 being in salary and the remainder 'in fringe benefits " retroactive to the beginning of the 1974-5 contract year. No acti~n 

was taken on the salary issue last night. 
Jhe~s~_rver 
world briefs 
\I'I'LE VAI.U:Y, Calif. <UPI-­l.nt. Zivkovich, a big and hand­,;on &t' former pro football player, h;" lwen t•xonerated of any ·nongdoing by school officials for po~ing in the nude for 1•1aygirl 
\lat.:azinl'. Zivkovich, 34, a .jpfensive t•nd for the Calgary o\tamp!•ders before a shoulder ... t•paration ended his career, is a physical t>ducation teacher at 
•\pple \'alley High School 

SIIEI.TO:'I;, ('onn. (liPil-The ·'1\1 said Tuesday it was in­t•stigating leads as far away as he Wt•st Coast looking for three <H'n who might have set off a 
•t'r&<"S of pxplosions that destroyed ., $10 n111lion plant and put 800 out ,f work. FBI agents plowed . hrough tht• smoldering ruins of the , uhlwr plant looking for clues to tht• bombing and fire that leveled 
'IH' building. 

an campus today 
12:15 p.m ... Jecture, "the studies on c-reactlve proteins", by dr. henry :JOwurz, 102 galvin life science -:enter. 
:i p.m ... vespers, evensong, log 
<:hapel. c.:JO p.m.--meeting, salllng club, :!04 engineering bldg. 
/:30 p.m ... lecure, "reflections on psychoanalysis and modern literature, " by erich heller, carroll hall. 
7:30 p.m.--symposium, "the african in america and the afro­american In africa," panel discussion, black cultural arts center. 
p.m... soph. lit. fest., john logan. lib. aud., reception for authors, Iafortune ballroom. 
Yand 11 p.m ... film, "paper chase· 
o'laughlin aud. 1 ..rr:. so. quad liturgy, station~ 1 'h~ rross, walsh hall. 
HPC hears poll results 
by Lonnie Luna Starr Rt>porter 

Ceil Prinster, Badin president, explained to the HPC last night the results of the Hunger Coalition questionnaire last night in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Recently, a meat reduction questionnaire was passed out and only 30 percent of the students responded, explained Prinster. 60 percent of those that responded were in favor of the meat reduction for one meal; 25 percent of those that responded were in favor of fasting once a week, continued l'rinster. 
''A pledge will soon be passed out and it is in two parts: the first part deals with meat reduction and the second part deals with fasting once a \\'t>ek." stated Prinster. The t:niversity Food Service has of­fen•d to pay 50 cents for each studt>nt per week that fasts on the <lt>signatt>d day if 800 students parl&t'ipatP. added Prinster. 
"The !Iunger Coalition asks that students just respond to the I'IPdgl•." t'ommented Prinster. Th!• plt>dge will continue till before finals,'' stated Prinster. The lhmgt·r !'oalition will sponsor a :\at10nal Food Day sometime in :\ priI. t'ond uded Prinster. 
All mt•mhers of the HPC signed a pt•tition to urge that the students respond to the questionnaire t'onePrning the meat reduction and fast. Th(• petition also gave the IIP<"s support to the Hunger Coalition. 
The fpatured speaker, Fr. James 
T. Hurtchaell. university provost, was unable to appear due to prior mgagements. Bob Howl, HPC ehairman. has an appointment with him sometime this afternoon. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Sub&crlptlons may be purchased tor $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class pOStage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Wednesday, March 5, 1975 
Farrell appears at Celebrity Luncheon 
by Martha Fannmg 
· 
Staff HPportt>r 
JamPs T. Farrell appeared yesterday at a Celebrity Luncheon, sponsored by the Campus Ministry at the Bulla Shed. Farrell, in an informal discussion. answered 
questions on a variety of topics from politics to religion. 
The discussion opened with questions on Farrell's writing. In response to a question concerning literary style he replied, "I never commit mysPlf one way of writing, professors do. · 
Farrell stated he usually finds he writes easily on the whole. "The first six months were hard until I made a rule to write five pages or one thousand words a day," he noted. He added that he doesn't follow the rule now but usually writes that much as a habit. 
Politics was touched upon. 
E-'arrell stated he thought Nixon has a "criminal mentality" and that he "put people in power who should have been clerks, seeing an image of his youth in them." 
When Watergate was brought up Farrell stated that it could have developed into one of this country's most serious problems. 
Farrell added that Watergate should be exposed completely. "If there's a second Watergate it will be better planned," he noted. 
Also touched upon was the topic of religion. Farrell noted that he thought religion used to have rigidity, piety and repression. "Now it's a sociological institution that will soon be in competition with Billy Graham," he noted. 
This was the second celebrity luncheon to be held this year.Cam pus Ministry hopes to have ano­ther luncheon after the break. 
ND-SMC THEATRE AUDITIONS 


·kan~ D~ 
Friday, March 7, 7 PM O'Laughlin Auditorium Monday, March 10, 7 PM Regina Hall Auditorium (Audition materials available Speech and Drama Dept. Office-·110 Moreau Hall, St. Mary's) 
OPEN TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS 
MAC'S RECORD RACK s1 off 

Any SEALS & CROFTS 
ALBUM 
288-1178 
A FLILL SERVICE RE(:ORr> STORE 2923 MISHAWAKA AVE. SOllTH BENO, IND. 46615 

N 0 W APPEARING the 
FREEWAY 
AND LISTEN 



~Shu!~~ nile C!ut 
. NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS on U.S. 31 bttwetn Niles. So. Bend-Fr• l'lrtin&-613-USO. 
r-----------------------------------------------------~I I 
I 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I I I I I I I I I 


~-----------------------------------------------------J 

I 
I 

I I I I I I I 
Newer Math. 
If you're a sophomore it's not too late to enroll in Army ROTC. Under the Two-Year Program you can attend a six-week Basic Camp next summer, take ROTC in your junior and senior years, and receive a commission along with your diploma. In other words, complete a four-year course in just two years! And if you're a veteran you don't I 
I 

even have to attend the six-week Basic Camp! 
I I

Army ROTC will also pay you $100 a month while you're in 
I I

school (for you vets, that's in addition to your GI Bill) to spend as 
I you wish. I I Army ROTC has a lot more to offer, too. For more information call I 
or write: 

AR1·1Y ROTC UfHVERSI1Y (f NOTRE DN[ fiOTRE DN'[I Ill 4G556 
283-6264/6265 
I 

@Army ROTC I I 
I

The more you look at 
I 
I

it, the better it looks. 
I 
I 
I 

Wednesday, March 5, 1975 the observer 

/a1nes T. Farrell discusses role of Mid'West 'Writers in literature 
by l\'1ary Reher 
Writers often concern them­Staff Reporter selves with the question of boyhood 
of childhood in America at about 
Author of 22 novels, 14 books and the same time. "The fact that an short stories and currently at work ordinary boy was important in a on five new novels, James T. time of great change is in­Farrell discussed the contribution teresting," said Farrell. "There is of Middle West writers to a certain moral value to it." American literature in the In the latter years of the 19th Washington Auditorium at 8 last century the literature treated night. women as though they had a 
"In the East, particularly among capacity for development, he said. liberal Philistines, the phrase The novel or Woman's Mt>mory is "Middle America" is one of con­an example of this. "In the tempt," he began. "Middle ·;;IN THE East, the phrase 'Middle literature of the 1920'~ you do not America is said to be potentially America' is one of contempt/' find this, the people with the least the source of American fascism, stated author James Farrell in his ambition are women. For 
numerous reactions and is talk at Washington Hall last night. Hemingway and Fitzgerald the eategorically denounced. There (Photo by Paul Joyce). idea of a woman's development has been in the Middle West a does not exist," he said.
occurring in the Middle West.

period of intellectual literature The 1920's started a change from
according to Farrell.

development which coincides with an orientation based on production
Accompanying this rapid in­


Senior Club 
Wed. 7 & 7 50ct 
Thurs. Gin & Tonic 50ct Fri. Happy Hour All Night Sat. MusicbyRondySarton 
St. Pat's .Day Is Coming! 
great industrial economic and and success of achievement to an 
technological expansion." dustrial development was a great orientation consumption •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
of and
contrast of poverty and riches. • •
In the last years of the 19th success of connection such as
The Populist movement of revolt : The Sophomore Literary Festival :
eentury and early years of the 2oth, relatives, he noted. Leo Lowen­
against Wall Street and the • •
there was great cultural thal. a sociologist, made a study
railroads was in the interest of the : Council :
development and capitalist ex­finding there were many more 
common man and particularly the • •
pansion of many new industries in entertainers in 1945 than in 1900 the North due to the Civil War farmer. observed Farrell. and those in the latter year ! invites the Notre Dame i 
Itt this time masses of im­

victory, Farrell noted. Many new attributed their success to luck,
migrants arrived, yielding a

fortunes were established, said Farrell said. ! Community to attend an : 
mixture of many races with many

Farrell, and he cited the establish­• •
varieties of speech, noted Farrell. At present there is a literaturement of the Standard Oil Company 
Writers could utilize many dif­shift to New York and Washington,as an example. 
ferent vernaculars like Mark he noted. He neglected to com­

i OPEN HOUSE i
There were new cities, new in­
dustries, new buildings, new in­Twain had done in previous years. ment on the future claiming, "I am • •Another significant change noted not a prophet." • 1n •
ventions. and "life seemed 
young," he claims. With these by Farrell was the triumph of the "The health of America is • •• l'ity over the small town. With the related to the prospect of a cultural
accomplishments, American 
extended communication and rise of renewal. It is worthwhileliterature was given new rebirth travel made possible with the for a little while at least for them to ! • LaFortune Ballroom : •• railroads. the city became the know that it is not history as much
Kissinger begins • with: • 
eenter of new values. to do with the building of a great There is a contrast between nation as the creation of a culture • •tough Middle thinkers and writers in that the and a literature worthy of the great : James T. Farrell : thinkers had great hope but the nation. That is part of the past ofEast assignment writers had a "pessimistic strain" Middle Ameirca," he stated. 
: John Logan
WASHINGTON WPI) in their work. said Farrell. "The future of the country and :• 1\loderately optimistic. Secretary The concept of social Dar­nation is not totally but partly in • • of State Henry Kissinger is winism. survival of the fittest in the hands and minds and the wills : Michael Ryan ·: lwginning today what may be his society. greatly influenced many in the efforts of this great vast area • hardest mission to the Middle writers. mainly Jack London and of the country which has been • • l•:ast-trying to bring about an Theodore Dreiser. according to contemptuously called Middle : Wednesday March 5 : 
agreement between Egypt and Farrell. In his books Dreiser often America. But it gave to America • • Israel on a further Israeli troop treated America in terms of the much of its consciousness and 
! Immediately following reading !
withdraw) east of the Suez canal. conflict of the grandeur and much of its honer," he closed. misery of life in society. I<'arrell spoke to a full house in
(ln the t•ve of his departure, i in library Auditorium i
"In Chicago, the businessman Washington Hall. Tonight'sKissinger was quoted as telling 
had a strong clan sense of the speakers include John Logan and • •congressmt•n his chances for city." stated Farrell. Noting such John Logan. Jr.at 8 in the Library : Free Refreshments :stH.'ct•ss are S0-50. That and examples as the plan for the Auditorium. •
"moderate optimism'' have been •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
development and beautification ofthe private predictions since he the city in terms of businessmen'sreturned from a groundwork trip ambitions. he also remarked that to the area last month. 


Gordon Lightfoot
the bankers around the turn of the 

His special jet was scheduled to century "were convinced Chicago take of from Andrews Air Force would become the major center of Base shortly after noon EDT. the world." 

Cold on the Shoulder ~1 
On Reprise Records and Tapes 
':ic.rdon lightfoot/Cold on the Shoulder. Gordon Light­foot had lwo of lasl "~"ilr's biggest record smashes: a single called "Sundown" and an album of the same name. This new, equally powerful LP includes "Bend in the Water" and "Rainy Day People." 
On Reprise Records and Tapes 
Mfr. list price $6.98 (Ta"~s $7.97) 
OUR EVERYDAY lOW PRICE$ 4.99 
at 

919-B COLLEGE SQUARE MISHAWAKA, INDIANA ·255-0266 
(ACROSS FROM THE TOWN AND 
COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER) 


~ ~1t~dQQ.,~~rver Founded November 3, 1966 Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief Bob Zogas Business Manager Bob McManus Advertising Manager EDITORIAL BOARD TPrrv Ke~ney. News Editor: AI Rutherford. Managing Editor; Fred Graver, Editorial Editor Jf'anne Murphy. Copy Editor; Robert Baker, Features Editor; Greg Corgan, Sports Editor Mary Janca. St Mary's Editor; Chris Smith, Photo Editor; Bill Brink, Senior Night Editor .11111 Eder. Ann Me Carry, Pattie Cooney, Zenon Bidzinski. Marlene Zloza. Contributing Editors Editorial.: 283-8661 New.:183-1715 Bu•inen: 183-7471  
Wednesday, March s, 1975  


Dpinian 
New Thoughts On Populotion Control 

pattie caaney 
With all the uproar and consternation over population control one would think that the powers that be could come up with a solution. 
They haven't, but I have. It's so obvious to me that I wonder why I didn't think of it sooner. to the increase in the cost-of-living 
P. 0. Box Q 
Ultimate
index. We shall not even mention the fact that, despite its stature as require all citizens between the ages of 18 and 22 to work with a day one of the nation's leading camp program for at least one summer, preferably more. The universities. Notre Dame maternal-fraternal instinct is exhausted after the first day of 
Observer: 
It's very simple really: the governments of the world should Clean Up Frustrations
somehow manages to pay its eamp.professors in a somewhat less than first-class wav. But I'm Dear Editor & Notre Dame digressing. It was disheartening to Community: l've talked with elementary school teachers and their student

Your Act 

see Prof. Press and his associates teachers, but their experiences with children are not the same as reveal their ignorance and naivete I have waited and sat back long those of a camp counselor. Children KNOW that school is not fun lkar l<:dilor: by resting their case on such a t•nough but my frustrati-ons have but they do expect day camp to be fun, when actually it is worse shaky foundation as fact. Indeed, reached their ultimate. These are than school. New counselors also tend to be under the illusion that 
It is painfully obvious to me that if they had drilled intensively in my own personal opinions, but in day camp should be fun and that kids are angelic little creatures. if the Obst>l'\'t'r is to raise itself the art of obsequiousness, sim­talking to others I have found above its present stature as bird­pering, and groveling, they might general adherence to them. 
I was once a new Recreation Leader with naive notions abouteage liner. a major reevaluation of have achieved a far more First of aU this year's Mardi children also, but caught on after the first hour. On the first day of the Obst>t'\'t>r's goals must be Pquitable compromise. I'll bet. .. Gras was one of the most eamp the "kiddies" (6-12 years oldl are put into their appropriateundertaken. Then. to add insult to injury, the disorganized projects I have been age group and assigned partners. Itnever fails that there is one kidllniversity slaps its faculty in the associated with. As former that no one will be partners with even if you handcuff themfact> by offering a demeaning $600 president of Alumni Hall I was together. One outcast comes to mind, "Weird Debbie". Despite anIs the purpose of this paper bonus..o be given biyearly, on a extremely dismayed and boggled even number of the group present, Debbie never had a partner.
mt.•rely to announce campus strictly temporary basis. That is down with minute and nerve Consequently she followed me everywhere, even into the bathroom. 
t.•vents. report sports results, and to say. this bonus may be ter­racking problems. Mardi Gras Her favorite pastime was to put butter on her fingernails, then eatinclude an occassional bland ar­minated if the administration feels committee members were not them. She explained this habit very logically, "My dad says it'sticle about campus news? It would so inclined after this year. It was helpful at all, in fact they were a alright and my mother does it too, only she puts salt on hers."
seem so. as evidenced by the not a pay raise. The Observer major hindrance. There seemed to t·onstanl adherence to the Ob­failed to adequately make this be no eommunication between st•n·t•r's apparent credo of non­distinction. and thus many them as each would give us dif­There are always two or three characters among the group that committal journalism. The students. and several faculty fert>nl information. Dealing rules insist on sitting and climbing on your knees. shoulders and the top studit.•d a'ld practiced precision mPmbt-rs, came away with the wt>re changed many times during of your head; this becomes a nuisance if your physique is all wtlh which the Obst>n·pr avoids impression that a pay raise had dealPrs school and caused much bone and you only weight 95 Jbs. and are trying to eat lunch. These 
my kind of investigative reporting indeed been granted. The confusion for our volunteers. Also same affectionate creatures will beg and plead with you to take is amazing. Two recent examples crowning glory of this whole affair, for an PVPnt in which the money them to the reptile house when on a field trip at the zoo. I always t·omt.•to mind: First. there was the however. O('curred yesterday, got's to charity the Mardi Gras tPlllhem ahead of time, "'Anyone wanting to go to the reptile house plethora of articles published by 1Ohst'n't'l', Ft>b. 18) when it was ('ommittl'e t.·hanged fines and l'an't be in my group today...," but I ALWAYS end up with the 
the Obst•n·l'r on the calender rt>ported that due to inflation, penalties which at times seemed snakes and alligators anyway. controversy, culminating in a poll which is Pquivalenl to a rise in the picayune and ridiculous. No one dearly showing the students' cost-of-living index, "tuition may was trying to be dishonest or "pull Any lengthy bus excursions are a true test of the campers' in­preference for a post-Labor Day have to rise 'several hundred something fast" on them. Thus, by tegrity. It never fails that on a day when the temperature is 95 andstart and a mid-semester break. dollars' next year." The same their being so strict, all the fun was the humidity 89 that at least three campers get "'bus sick"; theyThe administration, charac-· reasoning that was used by faculty taken out of Mardi Gras. Finally, are usuaHy the kid next to me, right in front of me and directlyteristically, responded with a to attempt to obtain a pay increase for an organization which pleads behind me. I usually announce, "Anyone sitting near me cannotl·:-tlendar requiring the students and was ignort>d by the ad­poverty aU before and during gel bus sick unless they have an extra lunch bag."
back on campus one day after ministration, is now being used to Mardi Gras, it seems surprising Labor Dav. and there was no mid­raise the tuition " 'several hundred that they will probably make semester ·break to be found. What dollars'" of one of the most highly­record profits this year. 
Last summer I knew we were doomed the day we set out forwas accomplished by the Observer t>ndowed institutions in the My sec-ond gripe is with the "f<'airyland", amusement park. After 20 minutes 52 people in­in this instance, other than inad­country. Did the Obst>rvt>r make Obst>rw·r itself. I am tired of duding kids, counselors and instructors were quite ill and lined up nrtently publicizing the Pven a modest attempt to explore reading misinformation and outside the washroom. I survived because I kept my eyes closed on l'niversity's insensitivity to the the inconsistency of the situation? sensation journalism. The all the rides except the train and merry-go-round. I did almoststudent body's demonstrated No. they did not. ultimate was the recent issues faint though. when we were stuck at the top of the ferris wheel for preferences? The Observer did which promised a new changing 15 minutes in a 20 m.p.h. wind.
nothing to either point out the paper. The only change which I inequity of the situation, or, failing Why is the Obst>rvt>r so reticent see is a l'Onfusing symbol which that. explain why they ran three to make some news, instead of just appropriately depicts the messed I finally found that the only way to enjoy the monsters' company front-page articles, previous to the reporting it? Is it because the up state of the Obst>rvt>r itself. I is to be more monstrous than the villains themselves. Last summer administration's decision, that llniversity controls the paper's say this because any paper that we got a real rule fanatic for camp director, who had rules for proved to be impotent in in­pursestrings, or what? I'd like an ean devote a whole editorial to everything including which doors to enter and exit through to the fluencing the administration's t>xplanation . I am billed for the deseribe how changed it has fieldhouse. I almost got fired when I went IN the front door. ultimate decision. The purpose of expense of the Observl'r, and I'd become when SBP elections are Together with my two groups we broke every new rule established. the Ohst•rn•l' should be more than like to see it serve the interests of the following day has lost sight of We finished second to the last on the rule point board, but had more just reporting what happened and the people of Notre Dame, who obligations to the Notre Dame fun than the rest of the day camp put together. when. The how and why are im­back the paper. The paper does ('OmiTiunity. portant. How can the ad­not lack writing talent; it lacks In my opinion the Obst>rvl'r IS So in all fairness the killing of the maternal-fraternal instincts mmistration blatantly ignore the the conviction to write about the nurturing apathy and encouraged depends on the attitude one acquires. After my first year of trying students' wishes. and why? important issues on this campus, a no vote from the student body. It to keep campers in "twos" for eight hours, five days a week, I came l·:l<•vatm·. elevator. we got the regardless of whose toes get seems the paper wants to become home and tried to put my two nieces and one nephew in twos. I also shaft. stepped on. Let's get our priorities the voil'e and leader of the student was determined never, ever to look, or listen to children again, let 
straight: a massive boycott on populace. If and when we let that alone have one of my own. basketball tickets. or an impotent happen the Obst>rvt>r won't have to 
~~·rom!. there was the recent SLC' getting nailed on the mcourage apathy. they'll breed l'ontrovt>rsy over faculty salaries. sexuality issue. mough of it themselves. l<~ven after four summers of day camp, my maternal instinct is l'roft-ssor Irwin Press clearly Pxlinct. bull must confess I wouldn't have minded having a couple pointt.•d out that faculty salaries Sincl'rt>ly. Mark A. Nishan of the monsters as younger brothers or sisters. 
had not inereased commensurate Kl'nt S. Hranford 

DOONESBURY 
11.4/?.K, PROFESSOR. KAHN'S PHttoSOPHY tEatJR;-; 7WAY WAS A MAST&R~ 
PIECe! 
51/0f tEAN, SIJPPt£ A&31!­MeNT, 8(}/1.-T 1/f? £FFOI<l'te55~~ LAY£R UPON tAY£1<_ HIS FINAL 111l51S SO £f(J(iS!TRY U//!){)7/IT IT 5£NT A RIPPI-& OF £XOT8­
111iNT TJIR(){/611 TJIG /N(J?£{)ULOIJS IIAU I I COIJIJJ SCAI?aLY IT! I 

Get;, .I /A/AlTA 
lA/lSH I MINtJTC. .. YOU COtJUJ HJIV£ IUE!R£N'T JHE.R£, SGENIT; MIIRI<'? >W B&N.. MEAN... 
I 
Class of 76 

by Garry Trudeau 
THATS 

R!GHT/-BCN fiNAlLY SOLO£[) 
70/?AY!
I 
the observer 

Night Editor: Rick Blower Asst. Night Editor: Maggie Waltman 
Layout Staff:  Oscar  
Day 'Editor:  Don Reimer, Ken Girouard  
Copy Reader:  Ken Bradford  

Editorials: Pred Graver, John Amantea, Catherine McMurren Features: Norman F. Bower, J. R. Baker Sports: Greg Corgan Typists: Don Roos, Tom Modglin, Mary 'Apple' Carr, Jim Landis Compugraphic: Phil Orscheln Night Controllers: Howard Halle & M. J. Foley Picture Screener: Albert Ad Layout: Bob Tracey 
. : '11 

-----------~ 
Wednesday, March 5, 1975 
the observer 
5 

the great freudian --an appreciation 
In 1964, in what is now my living room, John Logan and John Edward Hardy one festive eve improvised a song and dance routine. They called it "The Curious Frame." after John Edward's book and the aCtion · nsisted in an extempore rhyming contest immortalizing each other, the party, current events and deadly enemies. Sheer love of language. "I think of poetry as a reaching. as an anonymous loving, becoming personal for the reader who listens." says Logan in his festival advance. And that is the name of his recent book, The Anonymous Lover, it is a little more ob­sessed with the body and death, a little less with the young boy figure and the artist self. Still you have gift of the line from Williams, that feel of breath from Ginsberg and the sense of intimacy that is all your own. 
.My father never taught me anything 
1 needed for myself. It's no excuse, 
For what he might have said I think 
I would t·efuse, and besides <is it despair 
lt·each? l I feel we learn'-late to teach. 
And like Augustine's dad I bave watched 
YOU bathe. ("Lines to his son on reaching adolescen­ce") 
Your poetry was confessional, no matter what Poulin says, but not so much so as your life then when you were being called the "first really modern Catholic" poet. In­carnation, the fleshlyness of the mystery, was always your theme and is now, if the Hawaiian sequence in Lover is any in­dication. You end up at Augustine's church: 
"The surfers beautiful as mea 
can be 
ride the warm 
blue grel.'n 
swells ... 
The bodil.'s of Mary and Christ 
both still alive, we're told. 
This almost "Tin tern Abbey" ("Middle aged Midwesterner at Waikiki Again") reiterates the theme from Ghosts of the Heart your second book: 
"Ah God. if Christ has not a body as 
The student (and the older) artist does, 
While no one was looking, the annual Fine 
Arts Festival was taking place at st. Mary's 
College this past weekend.4 
Guest artists at this Festival were Jerome 
Lowenthal, who is rated as aoe of the finest 
concert pianists in the country, (and who 
proved that to be quite tnle), and Boris 
Boldovsky, the Artistic Director of the 
Opera Institute and the Opera Company of 
New York. 
Jerome Lowenthal's coneert (originally 
scheduled against Tennessee Williams until 
Williams bowed out, so as a result 
Lowenthal received virtually no publicity) 
was heard by a less than half capacity 
crowd at O'Laughlin Auditorium Sunday 
night. His performance, sponsored by St. 
Mary's Performing Arts Series <which 
means no charge to St. Mary's students) 
was one of the finest displays of 
musicianship we have witnessed to date. 
His program contained Bedhoven's Sonata 
in F major. Op. 10, No. Z; Utarles Ives' The 
:\lcotts. Chopin's Sonata in B. Hat minor, op. 
:\5; Debussy's Chidren's Corner; and a 
brilliant interpretations of Liszt's Mephisto 
Waltz. After an enthusiastic ovation, the 
artist returned for two encores, one of which 
was the soothing On Wings of Song by 
Mendelssohn. Inspired and inspiring 
performance. 
Also inspired and inspiring was the 
workshop with Boris Guldovsky, a session 
which took place on Sunday afternoon from 
one until six. On the stage of the Little 
Theatre at Moreau ' Hall, this distinguished 
and very brilliant man worked with 
members of the St. Mary's Opera Workshop 
directed by faculty member Susan Stevens. 
The workshop was open to the public, but 
only a handful of observers (from the music 
department, the convent, and from town) 
had the good fortune to be in the audience 
due to the lack of publicity. 
Dr. Goldovsky is a graduate ofthe Curtis 
Institute of Music, Philadelphia,' holds an 
Artist's Diploma from the Liszl Academy, 
by patty fenelon 
And all of that, what good is he to us?" <On a Prize Crucifix by a_ student sculptor) 
From the beginning those festive eves seemed to have no end. You entertained two generations of poets attimesin the house on Mishawaka Ave. and at Sausalito. After Buffalo we used to see your name on the bulletin board in the St. Mark's Bowery bookstore, "John Logan please call P .B." 
. Your defen!>e of Henry Miller, and by the way of Eliot, against Karl Shapiro in 1960 always haunted me, as did the "school" of Freudian poets you raised up briefly at Notre Dame. In the Shapiro essay you said: 
"There is certainly great need for the t·eturn to reeling in poetr·y. though when we say a writer "expresses", it is perhaps clearer to note, not so much that he ex­presses himself <which everybody does willy-nilly ,but that he expresses us,his readers which only the artist can do." <Commonweal 73; Jan. 20, 438-9) 
Right on top of the game all the time, you finally convicted Karl on his logic by the disintegration of his own style. 
These last 15 years have been an odyssey for you and I think you knew your spirit was always honored at Notre Dame. Harry Isbell, your translator friend, sent news. Mostly there were the poems. And now you return to the festival, that demi­Kulturgeschichte, from Buffalo and the belly of the Yellow Submarine. When we read your poems this week we congratulate you on being faithful, seeking if not finding, still feeling, if half blind: 
"The woman will give us what she can We men will take what we are able (Painted blue the Sibyl inside ourselves is also writhing there­soml.' kind or dance about the same un­
cel'ta in fire­<I know not know what for) .. ("Dawn and a woman") 
John Logan will appear with his son this evening at eight in the Library Auditorium. 
all things being equal... 
by mary margaret sheeran 

Budapest, and was .awarded an Honorary from the piano to stage center, delivering After a lively introduction by Susan Doctorate of Music from Bates College. He wise advice in a Russian accent, he brought Stevens, the enthusiastic audience wit­has directed opera at the New England about in his listeners not only an enthusiasm nessed the first scene, from Mozart's The Conservatory, the Berkshire Music Center, for opera as an art but a realization that we Marriage of Figaro, in which sopranoand at the Cleveland Institute ofMusic. The must be patient, for if we have the patience Beverly Beer displayed excellent touches of author of Bringing Opera to Life, and co­and endurance to proceed step by step,we subtle humor which played well. Johanna author of Bringing Soprano Arias to Life and will arrive at our goal. Drew, in a scene from Bizet's Carmen, ,\ccE'nts on Opera, he has performed as a For Goldovsky, there is always a reason provided us with a gorgeous voice in the conductor, pianist, stage director, teacher, for everything that happens on the stage. seductive "Sequidlla," and Joan Dwyer'sand lecturer, and also is known for his in­The artist must constantly be thinking of voice was nothing short of miraculous in 
termission commentaries during the these reasons, these motivations, the The Old Maid and the Thief scene by Gian Metropolitan Opera broadcasts on Saturday blending of what is within the character and Carlo Menotti. afternoons. -what has been written in the musical score. Other scenes performed were from The Goldovsky provided an experience in While this seems obvious on paper, it is Merry Wives of Windsor (a lively drinking 
witnessing live genius in action. Jumping discovered, in witnessing Goldovsky's scene), Othello (special praise again to generous sharing of his time, that the Beverly Beer as Desdemona), Hansel and '·'obvious" is only obvious after someone Gretel, Don Giovanni, Down in the Valley by has thought it through. And in viewing his Kul't Weill, <During which Bruce Paulsen tireless bobbing up and down every six received some enthusiastic boos as the measures or so to speak to his listeners, to story's villain), Puccini's Suor Angelicashow them what was implicit in the music, <with Aimee Beckmann fulfilling the to explain a subtext, or to explain the opera demands of the role of the Princess and the scene being enacted, Goldovsky superbly), a delightful scene from The placed an enormous emphasis on the Magic Flute <Craig Sullivan's voice is 
creativity and knowledge required of all always a happy surprise), La Boheme, and artists in order to perform even the simplest a grand finale with the grand finale of task. In revealing these things, Goldovsky Strauss Die Fledermaus in which all the gradually unfolded to us his immense un­members of the workshop took part,derstanding of people's feelings, of life, of delighting the audience as they toasted art, and of his respect for artists, par­champagne, "the essence of the essence". ticularly the artists of the opera. The enchanted onlookers left the Little 
Also fascinating to observe was the Theatre singing arias and choruses as theygradual development of each scene under disappeared into the Tuesday nightGoldovsky's direction. Bit by bit, light demands of homework and papers.shone on the students' faces, and their Thus, two world renowned artists were understanding with their characters and seen here at St. Mary's for Fine Arts 
their music was quite evident. "At first," weeken{l, and they were received with little says Goldovsky, "the singer must be a publicity and few people in the audience. puppet until he learns the what's and the The Saint Mary's music departmentwhy's. After he learns the what's and the deserves credit for its excellent per­why's, then he or she can create! But first, formances and for the hard work that had while we are learning, we must all be to be done in order to achieve their degree of 
excellence. md arias were presented, in · Ricitals and forums are held everygain last night at the Little Wednesday afternoon at 4:30 in the Little IS this performance which is Theatre of Moreau and are open to the 
1e following remarks: public. 

the observer Wednesday, March 5, 1975 

Plans discussed for possible St. Mary's library renovation 
by Pattie Cooney ('ontributing Editor 
ast wt>ek the St. Mary's Board tegents approved the hiring of !"ary Consultants, Inc., from lhfield. Illinois, to study the ~lion of renovation for the St. ·y's Library. ·veral weeks ago Donald Bean, ember of the consultants' firm. nt a day on campus and -.entt>d the following maximum 
•lation based on a per diem culation: $27,500 for analysis of ~ent and future library ser­I"S, analysis of future space ~ ·ds. reviews of building plans 
d problems of the present 
t ..·•lilies. 
\ecording to a preliminary 
r >Ort issued by the Development 
« 'fice. the firm selects and assigns 
t • ·ee consultants to each job. One 
l nsultant does the ·study, then 
v I'Sellls a draft to the other two 
c.. nsultants who act as critics. The 
~~ udy is to be completed before the 
autumn Board of Regents meeting. 
Several solutions have been 
discussed including the con­
~truction of a new building, the 
rl'OOvation of the present facilities, 
or the construction of an addition 
lo the main library. In an in­
terview last November, Dr. 
William Hickey, Acting President 
of st. Mary's College, stated, "The 
~Pneral consensus indicates that 
we definitely must consider 
building an addition to the present 
structure," he said. 
Presently library holdings are 
stored in various locations 
induding the Nursing Library in 
1\ladeleva, the library in the 
science hall and the Rare Book 
Room in Regina. The holdings 
number i40,463 as of December, 
1974. Ten thousand books and 6,935 
bound periodicals are housed in 
Slorage,located in the basement of 
Hegina, as well as in the Science 
Hall and Madeleva. 
Ac-=ording to the Development 
Office Report, the primary needs 
of the library are for space to 
house the current and projected 
book holdings and for increased 
space for student and faculty study 
and ~arch. 
The development Office made an initial study of foundations which support library needs and iden­tified eleven foundations which gave grants for construction in the period between January 1972 to July 1974, ranging from $10,000 to $1,500,000 and four foundations which gave grants for remodeling during this period. 
SBP candidates debate issues 
(continued from page 1) 
plannt>d to improve com­munit·ation. "First is our Dial-An· Officer plan. It will be a special line m tht> Student Government office where a student can call one of lhe officers at a certain time l"'rtod in the day. This would be a l1nt" wht>re you would complain or t·\prt>SS your views." Corpora 
~·d. 
Corpora proposed hall and off­t·ampus representatives to Student (;overnmt•nt. All Student (;o,·t>rnmt•nt mt>etings would be open lo the public. "Also we propose student watchdogs rt>presentatives to all university offices. We want to eliminate the mrddleman." Corpora said. 
1-'itzgerald presented the op­I>OSing view by outlining the three areas of his platform. "We center on three things, communication hetw('(:'fl Student Government and it's branches, secondly between Student Government and the Students, by attending all HPC met>tings, to help coordinate halls and Student Government and also through Student Government newsletters," Jo'itzgerald said. "Our final area of communication is between Student Government and the Alumni by getting an idea of what the alumni thinks is going on here, poll them and then respond to this poll with a letter of our own telling them h"W it is," he proposed. 

MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES 
*  2 FILMS  
*  BOOKSTORE  
*  LIVE FLOOR SHOW  

1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET CALL 282-1206 FOR IN FORMA TIO 
The Report on Library Needs in reference to the consultants also stated: ·"In addition, if in the contract St. Mary's agrees to in­elude equipment layouts, designing technical equipment, recommendations regarding casual and decorative furnish_ing 

SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
HICKORY INN MOTEl 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., .Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 








The Doobie Brothers 
ON WARNER BROTHERS RECORDS & TAPES 



L.P.'S REGULAR $6.98 EVERYDAY LOW PRICE 
$4.99 

AT 


THE DOOBIE BROTHERS 
The~tain 



and office equipment, consultation regarding purchasing, the charge will be$0.10 per square foot plus 5 per cent of equipment costs. No obligation would be incurred for the second part of the contract until and unless the building is begun. " 

THE DOOBIE BROTHERS 
The Captain


and Me 

-------------~------------------------

Hoynes Hall considered for 1nusic depart1nent relocation 
by Christie Herlihy Staff Reporter 
Although no final decision has yet been made, the proposal to relocate the music department in Hoynes Hall next September is definitely being considered, ac­cording to Fr. Jerome Wilson, Vice-president for business affairs. Such a move raises a parallel
issue of what is to be done with the 
classrooms in O'Shaughnessy vacated by the music department. 
"If the plans are finalized the move should be possible, next fall," acknowledged Wilson. "The architects visited the campus just a week ago and looked over Hoynes
Hall. They should report back in a couple of weeks." 
The vacant Hoynes building , which formerly housed the psychology department, is ex­pected to provide a relief from the crowded conditions in O'Shaugnessy Hall. Citing the expansion of course offerings as part of the pressure to move, William J. Cerny, chairman of the music department, continued, "Music should be housed in a separate building because it is a sound producing meduim. It should not be crowded amid other disciplines for the sound does bother other classes." 
The final decision hinges on the receipt of the architects' plans which include renovating the 85­year-old building and adding another floor to the wing closest to the Nieuwland Science Building. The remodeling is estimated at half a million dollars. 
Wilson emphasized the need for Rrecise planning before the decision is made. "We need more refined figures; the estimated cost per square foot, what goes in each place. Once the drawing and figures ahve been outlined then the University officers will meet and decide," he said. 
Moving to Hoynes Hall would be a temporary situation for even in its new location the music department would face the problem of lack of space. Wilson and Cerny both emphasized that the plan would satisfy the department's needs for up to 10 to 15 years. The remodeling would create one rehearsal hall to be used by both chorus and orchestra, classrooms, appreciation rooms, recital hall, two, possibly three multi-purpose rooms, small offices and fifteen teaching studios. 
Wilson hypothesized that the 
vacated O'Shaugnessy classrooms 
would be converted into seminar 
rooms. He also acknowledged the 
art department's need for more 
space. 
"I know they would like to get 
out into any place. I'm aware of 
their crowded conditions," Wilson 
nm.eo. The art classes are spread out among five buildings: Holy Cross 
Annex, O'Shaugnessy, the Field House, Engineering Building and the Library Auditorium with the main hub being the field house which the department acquired in 
airman 
1969  to  house  ceramics  and  
sculpture  classes.  
F  J  Fl  ·  h ·  

r. ames amgan, c 
of the Art Department, sum­marized the situation, "The field house amounts to 75,000 square feet and all areas are being used except for an open place in the center which we are slowly closing in on. We have petitioned for a permanent lOcatiOn since the field house will not be renovated. There has been some support for our 

request." 

Flanigan preferred the renovating of the field house to moving into O'Shaugnessy, "If we were given two million dollars, we would put it into the field house instead of moving into another building like O'Shaughnessy." 
Asked if there was anything on the drawing board for a fine arts building which would incorporate music, art, and drama depart­
ments, Flanigan sighed, "It's something they've dreamed of for years." 
-----------------------------, 
The Fightin Irish Cheerleaders 
Invite 

All ND & SMC Students to Try out for '75-'76 cheerleader for Football & Basketball. 
Organizational Meeting Thurs. March 6 6:00 pm 

At BURGER CHEF ~ ••give your sandwich the "works" at 
NO EXTRA CHARGE 

Two locations 1716 N. Ironwood 52920 U.S. 31 North 

(at Cleveland Rd.) 

Fix your own burger the way you like itat our new Works Bar. 
Help yourself to lettuce, tomatoes, onions, relish and pickles. Ifmustard and catsup are all you want, it's there for you too. Have as much or as little as you want at the Burger Chef Works Bar 
... and build your burger just the way you want it. 

Wednesday, March 5, 1975 
the observer 
.........................................••..,.7 !This Week Wed., Fri., Sat. ! 
• 




THIRD POWER ~
• 
•


SYMPHONY
• 

No Cover Wed.
•
•
•
•
•
• 
• 
•" '

• • •' •
• ••· • • 
•
•

• 2046 South Bend Ave. 
•

• !Monday Beer Nite 8 p.m. • 2 a.m.:• 
• 



CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Bass Player wanted, experie, with own equipment, into jazz.rocl<., blues. Contact Rick, 287·8406, or Tom, 234·0091. 
Need ride3.13 to New England, back by 3·17, Jim, 8927, 
Two 1970 Cotton Bowl victory Football Banners, 18" by 36". Will pay reasonable price, Jay Wright, (219) 287·6084, 
Student wanted to drive car back from NYC after Easter holidays. 234·0405, 
Riders needed this weekend to Madison, Wisconsin. Call 8904. 
Riders wanted to Madison, Wisconsin. Leaving Thurs. night, March 6. Joe, 289·3923. 
Need ·;de to NYC area for spring break. ,,all Lou, 8621. 
Roommate wanted, beautiful apartment, $65 monthly, Call Fred, 288.5646, 
Wanted: ride to Massachusetts for spring break. Call Charlie at 8845. 
Need ride to New Orleans at spring break. Call 4379. 
Need ride 3-7 to U. of Illinois or Champaign area. Marcee, 5763. 
Needed: ride to New Jersey, March 6, Call Kathi, 4089, or Mary, 4108, 
Need ride to Ft. Lauderdale. Judy, 6797. Spring break. 
Need ride to ND from Tampa Fla. area on March 30 or 31. Will share expenses. Call Mark, 1043. 
Need ride to Kent, Ohio, to leave Fri, March 7, and return Sunday. Call 
Bob at 1152, 
FOR SALE 
Raleigh three speed woman's and man's bike, each for sale. 277.1742. 
Carpets · room size ovaI and runner, blue and green design. $35 for both. Call 277·1742. 
One set of weights, $16 or best offer. Call Dr, Maison between 7:00 and 
9:00 p.m. at 272.9895. 
Flying Junior sailboats for sale. 13'3". Good condition. Notre Dame Sailing club. 8312 or 1150. 
Partial set of irons, $25 or best offer. Call 272·9707. 
Pioneer 1010 receiver. Dokorder 7500 reel.to-reeL Phone 1945. Inquire 203 Fisher, 
NOTICES 
Senior Club looking for entertainers. Interested, call Chris at 7521 or 8423, 
Need ride to Detroit area March 7 or 8, Please call Brenda, 4260. 
Hockey tonight at midnight at the 
A.C.C. · the Off.Campus Crunchies vs. The Grace Tower Gorillas. Last game of regular season. Fans in­vited. 
Need a ride over spring break? Wilson Driveaway has cars going to many destinations in the U.S. and your only expense is gas. For info, call Jim at 1604. 
GOOD TICKETS FOR THE MARCH 12 JOE WALSH AND JO JO GUNNE CONCERT AT THE A.C.C. ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE. 
Western Electronic 24 hour TV service, 1530 Western Ave. 282-1955. 
Overseas Jobs . Australia, Europe, 
S. America, Africa. Students, all professions and occupations. $700 . ~3000 monthly, Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing, Free in' formation. Transworld Research Co., Dept. F3, P.0. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA. 94925. 
Summer in Europe: Uni-Travel charters at less than '12 regular economy fare. 65 day advance payment required. U.S. Govt ap.. proved. TWA·PanAm.Transavia 707's. Call toll free 1-800·325-4867. 
To the owner of the Plymouth that slit the 2 front tires of the car in Kubiak's parking lot Friday night: the bouncer got your Iicense number and will give it to the police unless you call 1691 by Friday. 
Science Fiction Fans: Evangeline Walton now in stock plus a new Heinbein title too! 
Pandora's Books 
602 N. St, Louis 
at So. Bend Ave. 

Dance: SMC Nursing Club. Featuring Talisman. Open to all. Friday nite, 9. L Regina Hall, Sl.OO. 
ND-SMC Council for Retarded: Dance, Wed., March 5, 7:30-10 at Logan Center. 
FOR RENT 

Apartments for summer sublease. G.ood condition, close to campus. Call 272·4156 or 277·0130. 
Furnished houses available now for­summer and fall rentaL Phone 289­2602 or 234·9364, 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: 1 pair of Adidas Americanas sneakers (size 10) at Convo on Fl"i., Feb. 28 between 3 and 6 p.m. in student locker room. Reward of. fered. Call Tim, 3288. 
Lost: 1 blue and gold Buffalo Sabres hat. If found please call 1200. 
Lost: one gold antique SMC pinky ring; initials CRM, '76. Call 4295 ­rreward, 
Lost: Monday, Texas Instrument Calculator. Reward offered. If found please call Chris 291·1741, Desperately need for exams. 
Lost: 1 pocket calculator in black case at St. Mary's, Please call 4444. 
Lost: gold banded ring with yellow stone in Galvin Life Building, first floor, about 2 weeks ago. If found, please call Tim, 3633 . reward. 
Found: watch at o.c party with initialing MJG 1971. Call Dave, 289· 8075. 
PERSONALS 

Dan "The Man" Chaney Happy Belated Birthday, Even Without Your Beard. 
Section 1·A 
Junior Birdman, Intellectuals never lose in five moves. Neither do they lose four in a row. Please, Junior, just play with your stick. 
AHOLA 
Hans Fritz, Pedro 
Never underestimate the power of 
three snooks. Don't rest. 
Nancy, Happy 13th. Love, Glen 
Jeananne, Happy Birthday! (I thcr 1k you for your very kind attentiof,). 
If Pumpkin could repl~. she'd wiSh Molly B. Denum a happy 21st. The Gang 
j j j 
I 
,. ' j 
~ 
j 
I 
I 1 
i 
8 the observer Wednesday, March 5, 1975 

lD first-playoff try


leers blanked • 

by Bob Kissel 

The difference in the score between Michigan Tech and Notre Dame in their opening WCHA playoff game was accurately reflected in the play of goaltenders Len Moher and Jim Warden. The Huskies downed the Irish 2-0 in the first of the two game,total goal series. 
Warden was relaxed almost to the point of disinterest, showing full confidence in his defensive pairs controlling play and his of­fensive Jines putting the pressure on the Irish. Moher was ner­vousand on his toes all 60 minutes, denying Huskie charges time after time. 
From the opening faceoff at center ice, the Tech Huskies showed their game strategy--put the pressure on the forecheck, deep in the ND zone. Tech kept the Irish bottled up in their own zone most of the initial period,resulting in the only. two goals of the game. 
Dana Decker of Tech thought he ~ had the rebound tally off a Scott 
GEOFF COLLIER and his Irish mates didn't show much in the way of Jessee blast from the point, but 
offense as MichiGan Tech shutout Notre Dame, 2-0. referee Gordy Lee saw Decker 
Greg Corgan·==========================================================================================================================f:=~e===~~==~~~~/~~?:===~=~==~~~==:~=~===~~=~ 
The Irish Eye 
I .c.JI
....................................................·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·Dantley banquet·C!t~ and 'Uot' Rod 
As if Digger Phelps doesn't have enough to worry about wondering whether or not his Irish will get an NCAA bid, last night at the annual Notre Dame basketball banquet Adrian Dantley gave him a few more perilous points to ponder. 
Dantley had just received the Most Valuable Player award for his obviously spectacular per­formance this season, and after accepting the trophy, had a few choice comments. 
"I just want to say," he began slowly, "that my right hand's a little tired from signing autographs all l'Vening. I just hope I didn't sign a pro contract som£>where in there." 
The crowd laughed. Digger winced, and Adrian went on. 
"My mother makes all the decisions in my life," he said, "and right now she wants me to stay in school." There was a long pause during which Digger and practically £>veryone. else present took a long breath, when A.D. finished, "But then again, it's hard to turn down all that money too." 
Adrian's remarks w£>re right in line with the light­hearted atmosphere which pervaded last evening's affair. Guest speaker "Hot" Rod Hundley was generally amusing and frequently hilarious. Hundley was dressed in a conservative navy blue sport coat with a red tie, a blue print shirt and light gray slacks. Definitely not usual Hundley style, and he received a barrage of insults because of it. He even went so far as to claim that Dantley was the best dressed man on the deus despite a flashy green suit that Phelps had on. 
Dantley replied, "Coach Phelps bought me this suit two years ago when he recruited me." Again Digger winced and answered, "I'll bet the NCAA will be here about this tomorrow." 
Jack Lloyd, the P .A. announcer at the bask;etball games was the master of ceremonies for the event and as far as emcees go, he was fairly comical. "Hot" Hod Hundley is to dry cleaning what Howard Cosell is to mouthwash," was part of his introduction for the guest speaker. 
Hundley spoke about people and how it was the people together with pride and determination which made for a great team. He mentioned Elgin Baylor, whom he called "the greatest forward ever in the game of basketball," Bill Russell, Dick Barnett, Tom and Dick Van Arsdale, and he had a little story on each. 

He mentioned Jerry West. "When I left West Virginia." says Hot Rod, "I held 22 records as a three-year player. Jerry West was a freshman when I was a senior. Three years later, I held one record-­most shots attempted." 
And Oscar Robertson. "When I was a seasoned veteran and Oscar was in his first game as a pro­player, they told me to guard him. I went out there and held him to 46 points." 
In the more business-like moments, Toby Knight and Bill Paterno received the most improved player awards, Ray Martin took the defensive player honor, Dwight Clay won the assist award, Tommy Varga got the blue-team trophy, and Adrian Dantley received two MVP awards and the free throw shooting per­centage trophy. Hundley also announced that Dantley had been chosen by Sporting News as a first team all-American forward, and leaning toward Digger also said that Coach of the Year award went to Bobby Knight of Indiana. 
Phelps had praise for everyone involved in the basketball program, and spoke of the schedule in relationship to Notre Dame's chances for an NCAA bid. 
"If we get penalized for playing a tough schedule, well. fine, that's what makes college basketball so exciting and we'll keep right on doing it. If everyone wants to ruin the excitement of the game by playing t•asy schedules, they can, but I won't." 
Besides Hundley and Phelps, assistant coaches Dick DiBiaso and Frank McLaughlin also spoke along with "Moose" Krause and Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, whom Lloyd introduced as the man who coined the phrase. "It matters not whether you win or lose, but how much you take in at the gate." 
It was a fun night. 
Spring sailing : ..............~~:L•••E••··,·•••••••••••••:
:\larch 15-16 : : Notre Dame Icebreaker Regatta : • !\larch 2!1-:IO • • : at St. Petersburg • • 
'I • • 
,\ pn 5-6 • • at Detroit "Stroh's Cup" • • April 12-1:1 :ALL ALPINE DESIGN 20% off: 
A:•~ils~!~-;~ern Illinois, fALL CAMP 7 SLEEPING BAGS 20% off: 
A:;ilo:;;~ State, at Drake iALL DOWN PARKAS 20% off:
7 

Midwest Women's Champs at :GERRY "Traveler" PACK 20% off: 
Notre Dame, at Lakeland • • May 1o-n : AND SERIES 71 FRAME : Midwest Champs at Indiana • N • 
May 17_1" : ( o layaways, returns, or exchanges . : 
Monotypes at Wisconsin : on sales merchandise) : Junt-!l-17 : SALE APPLIES TO SALE ENDS : c~~:~~ American Champs at : IN-STOCK MERCHANDISE MARCH 8, 1975 : 

Sierra Sports:~
.... 
·~~~;::=:r :
~ 216 •
233·8383 "MIAMI AT EWING": 
glove. Decker's goal was disallowed, around the five minute mark. 
Tech notched their first marker 
of the period on a rebound goal by 
Steve Jensen. Winger George Lyle 
took a quick shot on goal from the 
faceoff circle and Jensen was in 
perfect condition for the rebound 
at 15:26, giving Tech a 1-0 lead. 
The Huskies closed out their scoring for the night just under four minutes lateron a power play goal. With NO's Geoff Collier off for a tripping infraction, Stu Ostland combined with defen­seman Bob Lorimer at 19:09 for the Huskie 2-0 lead. Lorimer pulled the string fromthe blue line, but Moher was out of position after the Lorimer shot to have any chance of stopping the rebound from Ostlund. 
Offensively ND didn't have much in the first period,other than dumping the puckin the zone and hoping for a Tech mistake breaking out. The mistakes didn J come. On the other hand the Huskie attackers carried the puck in, setting up their plays. 
The second period featured more of the same concerning the Husk.ie offense. Moher may have played possibly the game of his short career. once denying Tech' first line, centered by junior Mike Zuke, three times on shots within 15 feet. 
Notre Dame almost broke the ice inthe second period when Tech's Bruce Abbey was off at 14:35 for holding. Sophomore Clark Hamilton couldn't tip in a shot from Brian Walsh, when Warden was down on the ice. Hamilton had another opportunity on the power play. but was stopped on an ex­cellent save by Warden. 
Warden may have been relaxed most of the game, but when the big saves w£>r£> needed, either on big slappers or close rebounds, he was equal to the test. Len Moher stopped everything in sight in the middle period, making 15 saves while Warden, a junior from Altadena, California, was credited with 12 stops. 
Tech continued their attack in the third period, patiently setting up their plays and getting off good shots on goal. Moher was thought to be injured by a blazing slapshot from the stick of winger Peter Hoberts, but was able to shake off the bruise. 
NO's AI Karsnia had himself a breakaway midway through the final period, but Warden denied the speedy soph from International f'alls, Minnesota. Once again the Irish offense was a bit anemic, or possibly a bit conservative, getting only 8 shots on goal in the period,giving Warden 26 saves in the game. 
Tech never relented their deep forechecking, while taking a gamble in sending twomen deep. Len Moher was forced to come up with 18 saves in the period, for a game totalof 46. 
1be two teams conclude their playoff series tonight, with the Irisb at a two goal disadvantage. All the action will be carriedlive by WSND's Mark Arminio and John Vozzo. 
V~ball sign-ups 
With the approach of An Tostal 1975, it's time for this year's Mud Volleyball tournament. It will begin immediately after spring break and will include a girls' division, as well as the traditional guys' division. The semi-finals and finals of each division will be played during An Tostal in the Mud. For more information and sign ups, call Bill Quinn or Gary Brownell at 8313, 8311, or 3698. The deadline for signing up will be March 19. 
Marantz -Sony Hormon/Kardon-Pioneer-Crown 
at 


THE STEREO SCENE 
Wholesale Prices on HiFi Equipment & Accessories Fast Dependable Service! ! 
<t•xt•t•pt t'air tradt> it.-msl 

287-1400 
ASK ABOUT MAXELL 
:::tu:! :\IISII.\. ,\\'E.. ••1\III.E PAST RIVER PARK TIIEATER 

TUESDAyI MARCH 18 
7:30PM 



MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
./ADVANCE TICKETS S5.50 DAY OF SHOW . :::: $6.50 ON SALE NOW AT AUDITORIUM . :,,:,.,: :::,;::BOX OFFICE 11-5 DAILY, BOOGIE RE-:::,·::,::::;,:::::::'::{·: })\(: -):':;CORDS, SUSPENDED CORD IN ELKHART ,,,,,,,,.,,,;<,,,,,·;:;::::::::_·:,:;::\AND GOSHEN 







