

---------~--­

In an effort to conduct at home football games, Dean of students James Roemer has directed local pollee to crack down on students bringing beverage can and bottles into the stadium. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
identification purposes. the entire University. 
Women's athletics comply 'With amend:rnent 
Vol. X, No. 20 
By Tl'rry Kl.'l.'nl'y Editor-in-Chief 
Jamt•s Hoerner, dean of students, yestl.'rday directed athletic department officials to prohibit students from bringing hl.'vera~e bottles and cans into Notre Dame stadium. 
In a directive to Hobert Cahill, athletic departrnt-nt business manager, Roemer asked that local police be stationed at each student t•ntrance to turn away students carryin~ cans or bottles. 
Tht• purpose of the directive is to improve student conduct at home football games by limitin~ the amount of alcoholic beverages taken into the stadium by students, Roemer said. 
Hoerner said he was concerned about incidents of can-and bottle-throwing at Saturday's football game. Although the directive applies to all cans and bottles wlwther alcoholic or not, it will serve to Pnforce the University regulation which restricts drinking of alcohol to the private dorm room. 
"Police are being instructed before Saturday's game to turn back students with cans or bottles," Roemer said. 
No st'archi.'S 
He emphasized that students will not be searched as they enter the stadium. Fr. Tt•rrence Lally, assistant vice president for Student Affairs, agreed. "I think the directive is pretty ordinary," Lally said. ''Obviously, we are not looking for a frisk job or a patdown." 
Cahill emphasized that the directive is not 
an "emergency measure." He pointed o.ut 
that about 50 South Bend police are nor­
mally assigned crowd control duties during 
the football game. Cahill said stadium 
regulations prohibit alcoholic beverages anyway. "If the dean of students want to enforce the regulation more rigidly, I told him we'd 
Sex discrimination prohibited 
Editor's Note: 
In its fourth year as a coeducational institution, Notre Uanw is slowly accepting the challenges of genuine ("cuochtl'lttion. This t'f£ort is apparent In the growth of the wunwn's athletic program where rive women's club sports arc• now t•stablished. 
Title IX. an amendment recently passed, insures that tht•rt• will be no discrimination by sex in any federally­fundc•d programs at educational institutions. So far Notre nanw st'ems to be complying with the law. 
In the• first of two articles, reporter Valerie Zurblls t•xamines Title IX and the women's sports programs and Notre• Dame. 
Hy Valerie Zurblis Senior Staff Reporter 
On July 21, 1975, Congress passed the final revision of Title IX of the 1972 Educational Amendments, a law which affects almost all public school systems and post-secondary educational institutions in the country. 



server 
help him." Cahill said. 
Applil's only to students 

Roemer explained that his directive will have no effect on non-students who may bring cans or bottles into the stadium. Hoerner said he has no jurisdiction over the conduct of non-students and cited the dif­ficulty in placing police at all stadium en­trances. 
Arthur Pears, director of security, said his force ordinarily confiscates any alcoholic beverages that are taken into the stadium. 
"As far as liquor and beer go, the ushers watch that very closely," he said. "Bottles and cans are confiscated and returned at the end of the game." 
Cahill said that fans receiving general 
admission tickets through the warned that alcoholic beverprohibited on stadium property.  mail ages  are are  
l>irficult to l'nforce?  

Cahill forsees potential problems in en­forcing Roemer's orders. Calling the stadium environment "a jungle," Cahill cited the problem of stopping students who have been drinking. 
"If someone is already drinking, it's likely to be a hassle," Cahill predicted. 
Because of the large crowd, guards at the gate may have difficulty stopping all students with bottles or cans. "It's hard to give individual attention," Cahill said. 
Discipline against "stripper" 
Roemer said yesterday that he may take disciplinary action against the student who ''stripped" in the student section during Saturday's game. He also plans action to prevent similar incidents in the future. 
"I will take action this Saturday based on the situation," Roemer said. Though refusing to elaborate, Roemer said any future strippers will be photographed for 
This law prohibits sex discrimination in all federally­funded educational programs. Specifically, Title IX states: 
"No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving federal financial assistan­ce. " 
observer insiaht: 
In a provision of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, the federal government could cut off financial support to educational programs that involve discrimination. Title VI of this act defined that there be no discrimination of race, color, or natural origin. It did not include sex discrimination. 
Title IX of the 1972 Educational Amendments was first proposed in 1972, but the federal government did not en­force it until 1974 when the proposed regulations were published. 
Nearly 10,000 public comments were received during a five-month period--clearly implying that there is no way to satisfy all of the people all of the time. 
The issue most under attack was the athletic provision. The original provision was modified several times, but the basic requirement remained--namely, that schools must provide equal opportunity for both sexes to participate in intramural, interscholastic and intercollegiate athletics. 
Separate teams are allowed in sports where competitive skill is the main factor for determining team members. A provision was added allowing separate teams for contact sports--including football and basketball. 
If separate teams are offered, the institution may not discriminate on the basis of sex when providing nece!:lsary equipment and supplies, but equal aggregate expenditures are not r~quired. 
The goal of the athletics provision is to secure equal opportunity for males and females while allowing schools flexibility in determining how to provide such opportunity. 
If there is only one team for a non-contact sport, mem­bers of both sexes must be allowed to compete for the team. However, "sports and levels of competition which ef­fectively accommodate the interests and abilities of members of both sexes" must be available, and if they are not, institutions would be required to provide separate teams for men and women. 
Secondary and post-secondary schools have three years to comply with the law. The Congress had until July 21, 1975 to reject the final 
Beverage bottles, cans prohibited in stadiu1n 
-st. mary's college 
Roemer said Saturday's stripper posed a safety threat against himself and other students. He also may have broken the communication cable betwPPn the field and the press box area. The cable is supported by the pole on which the stripper performed. 
Lally added that such incidents reflect on 
revisions of Title IX. Since they did not, the law went into effect then. Right now the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAAl is lobbying the law to get provisions excluding 
profit-making sports.  
Michael  Wise,  assistant  director  of  the  Civil  Rights  
Center on campus, commended the law.  
"I  think  it  is  tremendously significant  in  terms  of  

breaking down sexual stereotypes and reformulating the relations between men and women," stated Wise. 
"It is a great force for significant cultural change," Wise continued, "and I presume that Notre Dame seeks to comply with the law." 
Women's Athletic Program 

Astrid Hotvedt was hired last year for the physical education department, and was made coordinator of women's athletics this year. Prior to this, no one was in charl'(e of coordinating women's sports at Notre Dame. 
Hotvedt is very enthusiastic of the prospect of women expanding their sports program at the University. "There is plenty of interest around to have an athletic program, and Notre Dame has good facilities so it is not necessary to duplicate expensive equipment or build separate courts," Hotvedt stated. 
She added that Dominick Napolitano, director of non­varsity sports, was good about helping the women get their own equipment. "We don't get hand-me-downs-we get new equipment out of our money," she said. 
Added this year to the established women's club sports of tennis, golf, basketball, and fencing, was field hockey. Hotvedt coaches this team, which is an outgrowth of an interest group started last year. 
So far there are 30 women on the squad, ranging from freshmen to seniors with highly developed skills to the novice level. "There were 50 spectators at our first game, and they all seemed to like it," commented Hotvedt. 
Napolitano also sees the women's program coming along. "It started slowly, but the interest has gone up," he said. "I want the best for the girls." 
Napolitano sees no real problems, and he doesn't an­ticipate any. He pointed out, however, that is now up to the women to organize and get things going. 
"We can go all out and spend money on a team, but it all depends on student leadership. As soon as senior leaders graduate, the activity will drop down. It's happened to men's sports and it can happen to women's sports," the veteran director said. 
Tuesday, September 30, 1975 
"To drop down to your undershorts would get you arrested anywhere in South Bend except in Notre Dame stadium," Lally said. 
"It used to be if you were a Yankee or a Notre Dame fan you were associated with class," he continued. "I'm not sure that's true anymore." 
t. ,., ' .. 
the observer Tuesday, September 30, 1975 
warld briefs 
LISBON, Portugal (AP)-Premier Jose Pin~eiro de Azevedo ~n 
Monday ordered a military crackdown on left~st-controlled · ad10 
and television in Lisbon, but soldiers at one station refused ·o c. bey 
and thousands of leftists took to the streets in protest. 
Azevedo's action against the stations was in ~-esronse to a 
determined drive launched against his moderate-Hr.! ll!ituverrment 
by the Communist party aft~r th~ ouster of },n;o-~m~tuni~t
Premier Vasco Goncalves earher this month. The ,(:hc:;ts mam 
effort has been to disrupt discipline in military ranks. 
CAIRO <APl -President Anwar Sadat will pay a state visit to 
the United States Oct. 27-Nov. 6, the semiofficial newspaper AI 
Abram reported Tuesday. 
Sadat is expected to discuss with President Ford plans to pur­
chase American arms and to make a case for an increase in U.S. 
aid to Egypt from the current $250 a year to $650 million. 
WASHINGTON <AP) -Domestic oil price controls were ex­tended to Nov. 15 on Monday when President Ford signed the energy compromise he forged with a Congress he now blames for prospective gasoline price increases. 
Ford said a price-raising decision by foreign oil-producing nations was made possible because the Democratic congressional majority "does nothing to reverse our growing oil dependence." 


an campus taday 
1:30 pm .. seminar, "vacuum slnterlng of alumlnumoxide", eng. bldg. rm.5 
3-5 pm ·-dance instruction, social and fad dancing, Iafortune ballroom $2 students. 
4:30 pm --seminar, "arbovlruses, encephalitis, mosquitoes", galvin center aud. 
7:30 
pm --meeting, college republican dug, speaker John Slotkowski, south bend mayoral candidate, Iafortune 2-d 

7:30 
pm .. lecture, "life Insurance and • famiiy financial plan­ning",carroll hall. 


7:30pm --meeting, charismatic prayer, Iafortune rathskeller. 
7:30 pm .. computer course, "p-1 --a synthesis of fortran and cobol", comp. center rm. 115. 
7:30-9:30 pm .. dance instruction, social and fad dancing, Iafortune ballroom, $2 faculty, staff and students. 
Woodrow Wilson Fellow 

that so-called mentally ill per-that these medieval conditions server. Box o. Notre Dame. In

ends affiliation with SMC 

sons who are not dangerous no longer exist, but the contin-doana. 46556 second Class postage and who can provide for them-uing line of reports from paod. Notre Dame. IN 46556 selves cannot be held in a men-12,~tients tells otherwise."
by Joe Toddy 

periods of up to a semester. t a 1 facility involuntarily. i!allllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiDIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIII!!! 
Staff Reporter 

The Fellowship also decided to "There was nothing wrong = THE POSTER PLACE 5 
limit its to with me mentally, morally, § 5
The Woodrow WilsonFellowship membership schools financially or i
physically, legal-§
has ended its affiliation with St. that were relatively isolated, thus Mary's College. eliminating St. Mary's ly." he said. "There was no Ie-a 100 11 x17 POSTERS only $10.00 5
gitimate reason for my being e= § The Fellowship program Dr. Donald Horning, head of the held there even one day. = = 
previously brought speakers to St. Fellowship Program at St. Mary's, "Yet for 15 years the doctors i • • 5 Mary's from various fields of in­expressed disappointment in the said that I was so ill that I = 1nsly•pr1nls ;====­
could not even be released to
terests, not usually associated with ending of the program. He stated 

the custody of a halfway house
the ordinary college curriculum, to that St. Mary's close affiliation 

where residents had access to 203 N. MAIN ST.
discuss possible career and em­with Notre Dame was the psychiatrists." §ployment _opportunities. major factor in the program's 
Donald, who lives in York, SOUTH BEND 289-6977 ecurtailment. 
the was Pa., outlined the following con-E
This year program 

ditions, which he said prevailed lllllllllllliiiiiiiiUUIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIUIHIIIIIUIIIIiiiiEI&I lllllllllliiiiiiJ,llli
restricted , limiting the number of Horning also went on to say that, schools that were eligible for although SMC was left out of the 
Wilson he The Fellowship decided hoped that the college would 

funding. Woodrow Program ~---------------------------------------,


I THE LIBRARY INVITES 1
to change the emphasis from continue to bring speakers on to 
sending fellows to various schools the campus. As of the moment St. 
for a week or two at a time to Mary's had not initiated this year's 


I YOU TO CELEBRATE !
sending them to fewer schools for program. 
THE STUDENT UNION OF NOTRE DAME PRESENTS 

i WITH THEM THIS WEEK. I 
I 
I IWE ARE CELEBRATING: I I -3-0 RECORD I 
r i UPCOMING TROUNCING OF I 
l I MICHIGAN STATE I I I AND THE LIBRARY'S FUTURE I
I PREDICTION: N.D. OVER OKLAHOMA I
1 IN THE ORANGE BOWL FOR THE I 

1 NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP! I
I I 1 I TUES. ALL DRINKS so~~ I I
i ALL PIZZAS $2.00 I



J.liiLs 

I I
SATURDAY OCT 'I 7:30 PM 

ITUES., WED., THURS. DRAFT BEER 40 • i 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 

I I 
Reserved Seats $7.50. $6.50. $5.50. Available at Notre Dame ACC. N.D. ·Student Union. St. Joseph's Bank & Branches. First Bank (main office only) 

I COME CELEBRATE WITH US THIS WEEK. I 
Robertson's 
(So. Bend & Elkhart) and Elkhart Truth., 


I DANCING EVERY NIGHT. I
~ ~ 1 ~ 

~---------------------------------------­


Technology transfer noted-


ND co-sponsors seminar 
to over 300 ·political leaders, discussion of economic, political,Notre Dame will JOin the educators and executives of legal. technological environmental Lutheran Church of America in 
sponsoring an multinational corporations. and moral considerations.
international 

An activity of the College of Dr. Frederick W. Dow, professorseminar regarding the transfer of 
Business Administration, the of marketing-management andtechnology to economically 
seminar will attempt to define, Hayes-Healy Professor of Traveldeveloping countries. The seminar 
will be on the campus Nov. 3 explore and develop a program of Management at Notre Dame, and cooperation between developed Rev. Richard Niebanck, secretary
through Nov.5. 
and developing countries . for social concerns of the Lutheran Invitations to attend the five This will be done by a thorough Church, are co-chairmen.
major sessions have· been extended 
Dr. Animesh Ghoshal, assistant professor of finance, is vice 
chairman. Dr. Robert Marshall, president of the Lutheran Church of 
Former mental patient 
America, New York City, will outline the seminar's goals in an address prepared for delivery at 
describes patient abuse 
WASHINGTON <APl _ For-at the Chattahoochee facility: the opening dinner. 
mer mental patient whose legal -"My doctor for 10 years, Other speakers planning to
pleas resulted in a landmark wo for a two-year period was 
participate in the conference
Supreme Court decision said the only doctor of 1,300 men, during early sessions include theMonday that medieval condi-was licensed by the state only director of the Stanford Research
lions continue to exist in some as an obstetrician. Institute, an executive of thepublic mental hospitals. -"Medication was given in-
Exxon Corporation, and theKenneth Donaldson said that discriminantly by doctors to Argentine minister to the United 
at the Florida State Hospital in patients who sometimes were Nations.
Chattahoochee, where he was not seen by a doctor for During the course of theheld for 15 years, doctors failed months, even years. 
seminar, 5 major addresses, each to identify the mentally ill, me--"There was physical abuse answered by two respondents, will 
dication was distributed in-of old men. Arms were broken be discussed by members of thediscriminantly and patients -which were reported as 'fall 
plenary party. 

were beaten by attendants. in shower' -teeth knocked out, This party will consist ofDonaldson testified before the ears bloodied. Sometimes these political leaders and technicalSenate subcommittee on aging, things were done by sadistic at­experts from both developed andwhich is examining the needs tendants without provocation, developing countries, labor
and treatment of elderly other times for slight in­
leaders. representatives of such
patients in mental health facil-fractions of the rules. 
international bodies as UNCTAD
ities. "That is the environment, and World Bank and universityreleased gentlemen, that federal dollars
Donaldson was from scholars in the fields of science,
the hospital in 1971 just before are helping to provide for our engineering, sociology, law,he appeared in federal court on elderly," he said. "It is my ex­
business administration, en­
his 20th appeal to win his re-perience that many of the doc­vironics and theology.
· 1· d tors and other staff members
d b h

lease. He ha een ospita Ize do not know the difference be-when he was 48 years old after h h t II The Observer os publoshed Monday
>t c1·v1'I court proceedi'ng had tween t ose w o are men a y
-d h h t through F roday and weekly durong
been instituted by his father, ill an t ose w 0 are no · the summer sessoon. except durong who asserted Donaldson was "Senior citizens continue to exams and vacatoon periods The suffering from delusions and be beaten up, overmedicated, Observer •s publoshed by the Paranoia. and unjustly restrained in the students ot the Unov ot Notre 
hosp.tals Mary's

After his release, Donaldson back wards of s ta te 1 Dame and 51 College 
II th " D Jd Subscroptoons may be purchased
Won a damage Sul·t. The su-a over e country, ona ­
tor 10 dollars per semester 118 

preme Court ruled last Jan. 26 son said. "Hospital offici a Is say dollars per year 1 trom The Ob 


Juesdav, September__:_Jo:..:.'--.:1_:_97:...:5___....:.t_:_h:_:e=---:o=--=b--=s:...::e::..r=--v~e=-=-r___~3 
Homecoming dance plans set 
·4,~J 
~-~~ ~ 
~ 
.. 
by Kt>n Bradford Copy Editor 

Tickets to the Oct. 24 Homecoming Dance will go on sale the week before the dance and will cost five dollars per couple, ac­cording to plans released yesterday by Homecoming Chairman Dave Shaheen. 
Also highlighting Homecoming Wt•ek will be the Southern California football game and the Beach Boys concert Oct. 25. Homecoming ticket packages 
including  dance,  concert  and  
football  tickets  were  sold  out  
Friday morning.  

The homecoming theme is "World of l<'antasy," ·according to Shaht•en. who called decoration plans for the Stepan Center dance "an t>xtravaganza." Providing music for the dance will be Sahara, a ~roup from Chicago. 
Indudt>d in the refreshment plans arc cheese, apples, bread, pretzels and soda, Shaheen said. 
Bt•t•r <:ardt•n l>oubtful 
Efforts to provide a beer garden 
New St. Mary's infirmary updatesmedical facilities 
In· Kathv Bvnw Staff Ht•po~ter 

St. Mary's new infirmary boasts many improvements over last ~·par's outdated medical facility. 
Till' new seven-room facility, locatt•d on the ground level of Holy Cross Hall. includ!'s a kitchen, two modern t•xamination rooms and two waiting rooms complete with l'offt•e tables and magazines. 
Tlw infirmary also has a bed eapacity of !'ight and is fully l'aqwted. 
Last year the infirmary was located on the third floor of Lt'Mans but was separated by a fpw rooms from the actual nurses station. l\kals had to be brought from th£' dining hall on trays. The t•ntin• facility was much smaller. 
This new infirmary treats mmor illrll'SS!'S 24 hours a day. Serious !'aSPS ar£' handlPd by a doctor, fmm !l-9 a.m. Monday throug_h 
f<'riday or referred to either l\lt•nwrial or St. Joseph's llospitals. 
·•Jt's larger," explained Mrs. Clwlminiak, the registered nurse on duty. "There's much more 
space, the infirmary rooms are 
larger and the physical su~roun­dings are much nicer than m the other area." 
She added ''It's easier to find and I think the girls are much more at the dance are in the negotiation stage, according to Student Union Director Tom Birsic. He termed the chances of such a facility "still doubtful." 
The dance will be for couples only and dress will be semi-formal "That means a jacket and tie are not required but are certainly acceptable," Shaheen noted. "Long gowns or regular skirts will be acceptable for women." 
This is not supposed to be a blue­jeans dance," he added. 
Tickets for the dance will be sold at the dining halls at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Tickets will not be available at the ticket offices, Shaheen said. 
There is no limit on the number of tickets to be sold. "There will be ample food for 1200 people," Shaheen said. 
lhlllct' to Lost' Money 
Bursic and Shaheen agreed that 
the dance will lose money for 
Student Government. Bursic 
t>stimated the loss will be $580. 
The committee decided not to 
raise the ticket price to six dollars 
aware of health services." While having a sprained finger pxamined. junior Donna Usher l'omnwnted, "Compared to last vear's infirmary this one is un­believably good. 
It's huge, and even has a kitchen, 
..... 
~ ~ 
~ 
.· ;· . . . ' . 

NEW SMC INFIRMARY. Evening nurse Marianne Carbiener attends to the needs of a sick SMC student. 
she added. I think it's much more p_lea~~nt to come to when you're 
SICk. 

"Everyone agrees it's a lot better." observed Chalminiak. "It's not that last year's was bad, just that the new one is nicer." 


for the dance because they thought a higher price would hurt at­tendance. 
"Now it's not as expensive as a formal, but it will be much better than a mixer," Shaheen said. "It won't be just another dance." 
Shaheen said, "We'll be using a lot of resources at this dance. We'll spend hundreds of dollars in decorations." 
"We believe that people who come to the dance will get their money's worth. There will be good decorations, good music and good food," he said. 
IIopt's for Unique Week 
Leo Garonski, assistant 
homecoming chairman, said the 
more elaborate dance is indicative 
of the committee's desire for a 
unique homecoming week. 
"The homecoming celebration 
has faltered in the last few years," 
Garonski said. "We hope this 
vear's homecoming will receive an 
{•nthusiastic response." 
The dance will follow an outdoor 
pep rally on the South Quad, Birsic 
said. Also featured during the 

in. the plush New Orleans Room 


George Graves 
now appearing in the Mail Pouch Hoom 

CAPER 
(This weekend -no cover charge with student I.D.) 

HAPPY HOUR Mon.-Fri. 4:00-7:30 LADIES' NIGHT Tues. 8:00-10:00 MEN'S NIGHT Thurs. 8:00-10:00 
EVERY MONDAY·REDUCED PRICES ON BEER AND BAR DRINKS 
Appropriate attire required for admittance 

~;.,;,Q, F;""'' Show ood Dao<o 8ood• s;. N;gtm A We"' 
~P~RKMlt1.~~~~Po~~~~~T'1~~LKHART 
PIZZAS, SNACKS & SANDWICHES SERVED ANYTIME 
7 ft. TV screen for Monday night football. 

weekend is a hall-decorating 
contest, with a first prize of $150. 
Birsic said some bleacher tickets 
are still available for the Beach 
Boys concert. All football tickets 
have been sold, he added. 
Ticket Sates Went Well 
Friday's sale of homecoming ticket packages in Stepan Center went extremely well, he noted. Two-hundred and thirty packages, each containing two football tickets, two concert tickets and a dance ticket, were sold in less than 90 minutes, Birsic said. 
The Student Union has received few complaints about the handling 
SIR RICHARD'S 
SMC women-HAIR STYLING-NO men 
129 DIXIEWAY SOUTH 
(U.S. 31 NORTH) SUITE B 
(Across from Randall's Inn) Closed 
Mondays RICH CODDENS UNISEX 277-0734 




THE SENIOR CLASS 
PRESENTS 


BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID 
PAUL NEWMAN ROBERT REDFORD KATHARINE ROSS 
TUESDAY-WEDNESDAY . 7-9-11 pm ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM $1.00 

SEPTEMBER & OCTOBER SPECIAL 
now at the 
,....... HOUSE OF TURQUOISE 

LIQlliD SILVER & TURQUOISE CHOKERS NORMALLY $19.95 --NOW $10.00 (WITH THIS COUPON) 
MKHIANA'S LARGEST STOCK OF INDIAN .JEWELRY 
--CUSTOM SILVERSMITHING ·-HEPAIRS TO INDIAN JEWELRY ··GIFT CERTIFICATES FOR THAT BIRTHDAY OR CHRISTMAS GIFT ·-LAYAWAY 
--1\tt\STER CHARGE ++ BANK AMERICARD 
THE HOUSE OF TURQUOISE
31-' South Main Mishawako 259-0751 Open 1 0 a.m. to 6 p.m. Clo1ed Sunday 
of this year's homecoming ticket sales, Birsic said. In 1973, the student union director Jim Rybarcziyk, was impeached after his administration kept 54 of the 500 football tickets allotted for homecoming sales. 
This year, the Student Union kept only 16 ticket packages --32 football tickets, 32 concert tickets and 16 dance tickets--Birsic said. 
He said four of the packages have been kept for various dignitaries who tentatively plan to be on campus during homecoming weekend. The other packages were distributed to Student Union officials .whose parents are coming down for the game, he added. 

• • • • • o • I o o •,. '0 ..... 
• "' t -t I • • t • f ~ f • I I ) • I • .. • • lo ._ • " • '" 
----~-~­

every 20 sec:ands ---­




~~The Observer 
Can Abortion
·~ P an independent student newspaper Foundt'd November 3, 1966 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager 


be Justified? 
Tom Whelan Advertising Manager 

EDITORIAL BOARD 
• 

AI Rutht>rford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; 
JDR c:arpara

KPn Girouard, News Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Ken Bradford, Copy' Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil, Features Editor; 
The question of whether or not abortion is justified in some cases
Chris Smith, Photo Editor 

is a tough one. Many people who do not believe in abortion on
Editori•ls: lBl-8661 

N~w• 29~l~1~7~1S~---~B~u'~'"~·~"~·=28~1~7~~~~~-------~ demand do believe in abortion, however, for a few different Tuesday, September 30, 1975 
reasons. I cannot accept abortion for any reason at all. 
Accepting abortion in some cases and condemning it in others is inconsistent. The sanctity of human life is an absolute value and nothing can take precedence over it. If we allow other priorities to come before life itself then we are assigning a relative value to life 
seriously, falks 
which is wrong. ' 
Before abortion became legal one of the most emotional and persuasive pleas for a change in the abortion law was in the case of rape or incest. It should be noted that conception occurring after 
rape is extremely rare. In a study involving 3,500 cases of rape over a ten year period in hospitals in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area it revealed that there were zero cases of pregnancy. But the fact remains that still sometimes conception does occur. 



Streets of San Francisco 
•

art buchwald 
The prenatal person who is conceived by rape or incest is in­o'clock news or was it on Barbary Who did? The real FBI or was it 
nocent of any crime or negligence involved. He should not be ex­WASHINGTON--I have a Coast? Was it the lady in the Harry 0? What shows do .kid­terminated by reason of the ignorance of one or both of his parents.
problem and perhaps many other Only a false humanism would advocate the elimination ofinnocent Rookies who had a .45 in her hand napers watch after they're caught­Americans are having it as well. I human life in order to "solve" the problems and miseries of theor did I watch her on Harry ? The news programs or the crimecan't tell the TV news shows any human community. Such a "solution" only perpetuates the
Reasoner? dramas?
more from the crime dramas that 
disrespect of human life already vented by the criminal act that follow shortly afterwards. Who writes the news shows; who Are would-be killers jealous of brought about the crisis. 
I'm not sure whether or not I saw writes the crime dramas? Are Charles Manson? Do they envy 3The ultimate abuse involved here is not sexual abuse; it is ex­they the same people? Miss Fromme's TV exposure? Do
·Patty Hearst on Walter Cronkite or termination of the innocent. How can we respond to one form of
Has President Ford seen too they dream they will be the next
on the Streets of San Francisco. abuse b y inflicting a still greater violation on the other of the in­
many John Wayne movies on TV? ones grinning in the kleig lights
Was Sara Jane Moore a character nocent victims? And what about the assailant? Should he be in Cannon or did she really try to legally responsible for nothing? Isn't it a twisted logic that would
I know I heard that a woman had that press against their police shoot the Pr:esident of the United her .44 taken away from her and in excorts? kill an innocent unborn baby for the crime of his father? States? 12 hours she was able to purchase a Or do they pretend they're shoot­Reality and unreality blend into 
.38. But what show did I see it on? ing it out with Charles Bronson on Regarding abortion for the physical health of the mother, doctors one. There doesn't seem to be 
Was it the Today program or could the ABC Friday Night Movie. say that any pregnant woman today no matter what her illness, can it have been on Baretta? If I dan't tell the real events from be help~d safely through her pregnancy, if she and her physician
much difference between the 
Lynette Fromme we see on Where are all the future Oswalds the fictional ones, how can they? are motivated to make the effort. In our country medical science Eyewitness News and the sick and the Arthur Bremmers now? Maybe there is no such thing as a already has advanced to such a point that this proposal for abortion hippy we watch on Hawaii Five-Q. Do they have color TV or are they real event any more. Maybe is virtually obsolete. 
But even if the mother's life is in serious danger, an attack uponWhat do the crazy people do watching in black and white? there's no fiction. Then what is it the child to save the mother is wrong. Here we can see thewhen they're not out in the streets Was it Petrocelli, Ironside, we're watching and what is it doing Christian ideal, "No greater love than this exists that one personaiming guns at people? Do they sit Perry Mason or Patty Hearst's to us? 
give his life for another." In this matter both fetal person andhome and watch television? Do lawyer I saw last night saying his And if it's doing it to us, what is it mother person are equal, even though the mother's interests andthey fantasize that S.W.A.T. has client had been brainwashed? doing to them--those lonely commitments are broader and more involved at that· moment. 
their house surrounded or that the They showed a gun on television frustrated people sitting in their Sometimes decisions must be made in the light of eternity not justFBI's Efrem Zimbalist is hunting that could shoot poison darts and dingy rooms fondling the.22s, .38s 
the light of the present. ' kill someone in 15 seconds. I think and .45sand whatever else theythem in a helicopter? 
Dan Schorr twlked about it-but th­bought in the store last week?
Do they identify with the people I should like to point out that the removal of a pregnant uterus en again it could have been on
who are trying to kill McCloud or The National Rifle Assn. in the case of cancer, or removal of a Fallopian tube that will the ones who are trying to rape Mission: Impossible. spokesman said on Mike Wallace's rupture and hemmorrhage due to a misplaced pregnancy in the
Did someone really try to kill

Angie Dickinson in Police Woman? show that guns don't kill people-­tube, are not regarded as direct attacks upon the child. In both 
When did John Chancellor go off Jack Anderson or was it a man on people kill people. Or did I see that instances th~ surgery is performed to save the mother's life; it is the air and Mod Squad go on? Conrack? I wish I could recall. on Kojak? undertaken m order to remedy a seriously defective condition in There must have been a com­There was a kidnaping on TV. I For the life of me, I can't the mother, and not in order to produce an abortion. 
mercial break somewhere. Did I think it was a boy named Bronf­remember. 
see a bank robbery on the six man. They caught the kidnapers. In cases of serious mental distress, women need emotional support much more deeply than they need abortion. Even a threat of suicidemay be used as a kind of bluff, if not as a cry for help. The suicide rate among pregnant women is lower than among women in general. The mental health of the mother is a matter for social and legal concern, but surely it is not a valid reason for abortion. 
P. 0. Box Q 
Pro-abortionists are not beyond using for their own purposes the definition given by the World Health Organization, that "Health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being, and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity." With a definition like 
But at Saturday's game, in section were very turned off long this\ is anyone healthy? Who, for instance, can know about theDear Editor: hunger, starvation, exploitation, indiscriminate killing of helpless people and still be in a state of complete mental and social well­Section B, we were seated directly before the game's end. 
On Saturday, the 28th, my in front of the ND students. If it is During what time the Purdue being? It would be much better to rPl:llize that we are all in ahusband and I went to the Purdue­their plan to get to the opposing team had possession of the ball, the sickcondition, in terms of the above definition at least, and to agreeNotre Dame game. It seemed to fans psychologically, they rate an N.D. students' chanting of Bull­to help each other toward this exceedingly distant goal of total me that I'd enjoy the game either A+ on Sat. Their plan of strategy Shit, (so loud it was too distracting health. 
way. worked well. We in the Purdue to ignore) was more than was needed to cause one to not enjoy . Finally concerning the reasons of prenatal deformity in the child, 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau whatever was happening. It is 
1t must be noted that there are many handicapped persons who live 
certainly not one of our favorite 
relatively fruitful lives like the rest of us. The suicide rate among
NOTHING. ITS JfJST 

expressions and feel certain that 
the handicapped is no higher than among others. Adults withI 5AI{), ITS I'V& O&EN rn~"f..U'..-u\"1 opinion was shared by the crowd. 
A SON6 A8()(ff /..Y IMPRfiSSEP BYHIS CON6R£5SMAN 70UGH 5TANP ON /iN­UI?AU. I VIRJJNMENTA/.. ISS/Jt;S.. 
I 
IT's NOT N&ITHeR's "70P 40." VPAU,fOOL­JIMMY/ THAISTH&. POINT/
/ 

defects do not consider themselves less worthy of continued life lhhan so-called normal adults. Why should the presumption be any Fortunately, Purdue did nothing different for the unborn person with suspected defects who cannot much to bring us to our feet, for yet think and speak for himself? As medical science develops, when we did have occasion to stand many deformities can be reduced or corrected. Efforts should be up, freakly chewed chewing-gum invested in preventing and correcting deformities, rather than in 
was thrown into our midst and promoting abortion. many of us fell victim to gum on 
There are those who say that if the baby is going to a Downs Syndrome
clothes or shoes or hair, or found ourselves sitting in it. There are those who say that if the baby is going to be a Downs
We found these incidents very Syndrome baby, it should be aborted because it will be an un­disappointing, juvenile and a little necessary burden to society. May I say that no Downs Syndrome sick. If we were "worked on" to be baby has ever been convicted of rape; no uowns Syndrome child "tuned off", we are just that, has ever been convicted of murder: no Downs Svndromechild has 
turned off. 
ever robbed a bank and to date noDowns Syndrome child has ever been kicked out of the White House. Who is the bu~..aen to society?
I find nothing there that even One only need to take a short walk to the Logan Center or NISH tobegins to resemble good sport­see ~ow real and human and lovely these handfcapped children are.
smanship. I go to a football game This summer I taught swimming at a home for boys who arewith a degree of respect for 1he emotionally disturbed ~nd neurologically impairable. I lovedplayers on either team and I guess them. I learned so much from whatt they have to teach. 
I am under the false impression 
We must bear in mind at all times that it is God who creates us. others go to a gamr. not to harass God makes us through the union of man and woman and even when the other specta~ofs. conception occurs from rape or incest or unwise unloiving in­
I would never attend a N.D. tercourse, it is God working through the union of man and woman game again to give any students pleased to use human coital intercourse to bring forth human life: the pleasure of acting this abusive Being involved with the pro-life movement for a full year now I way toward me again. I feel image have come up against 3or 4crisis pregnancies where I first felt th~t is important and hopefully, so do abortion was the only solutiion to this problem. But then after you. prayer and aJter rethinking my values, I have always come to 
accept the positive answer to abortion. Mrs. Charles Oheman 
I believe that God is calling us to be God-like to rise above our human emotions, at times, and respond with an ~pen hand--like HeIndianapolis 
did nailed to the Cross. 

• 

Tuesday, September 30, 1975 
the observer 

the new ministry at notre dame 
Although Christians have always believed that the $pirit is active in the Church, we are living in a time when the rapid pace of change and the complexity of new challenges in the Church have led many people to pray for a little less Spirit and little more status quo. Fortunately, it seems that the Spirit often has more confidence in our ability to grow than we have in ourselves, for today we are thrust into circumstances that in many cases spell dramatic changes in the Church as most of us have known it. 
. One encouraging sign here at Notre Dame is a renewed interest in the priesthood as a vocation. It is always dif­ficult to account for such trends, but the fact is that more and more highly talented students are finding the priesthnod an at­tractive and viable option for a rich and rewarding life. For example, this year th­ere are 26 new entering students in the program of studies for priesthood, including a law school graduate, an M.A. from Yale a former college French Professor, and a number of college graduates many of whom are from Notre Dame. 
The University has had a program of studies for priestly ministry since 1968, but only recently Notre Dame redesigned and emphasized this area as a tangible sign of its commitment to serving theneedsof the Church. The program (M.Th. Degree) is a three year sequence of courses in biblical studies, history of theology, . liturgy, systematic theology, ethics, field education, and ministerial skills such as preaching, counseling, and confessional practice. 
The Notre Dame Program is designed to prepare future priests for a Church that will often be much more demandingthan that of the recent past. A priest today is expect­ed to be a capable, warm, personable human being who is talented as a preacher of the Gospel and celebrater of the Eucharist. In the days when people came to Church primarily out of a sense of guilt, expectations for the priest were minimal. He could get by with little personal contact, and as long as he got them out of Church within an hoyr, his mass and preaching would find few critics among the faithful. Today educated Catholics are coming to see that the Mass, and indeed the 'Church itself, is primarily a place to celebrate God's goodness, a place to renew trust in the goodness of life and draw strength to con­tinue in the Lord's Spirit ln this Church 
gay students of notre dame 
Who are the Gay Students of Notre Dame? 
i"or a year now they have been sending politl' articles to the Obst•r·ver, discretely advt•rtising a post office box number, hanging up signs that rurely stay on the bullt•tin hoards more than a couple of hours. But tlwre arc never any names. Who are tht•st• pt•ople who expect others to respond to rwwspapcr stories without knowing who wrolt• the words, or who asl; people to call a tt'll'phone number never sure who is on the otlwr Pnd of the line? If they have somet­hing to say. some cause to fight for, why are tht•y afraid to let themselves be known? 
I am a member of the Gay Students of Notre Dame. I am also a graduate student, a teaching assistant. and a resident in a campus dorm. So, even though I'm hun­drt>ds of miles from my home and family, these other commitments and cir-l'Umstances prevent me from what gays call "coming out." This means I will take reasonable care to hide the fact that I am a homosexual since I am not ready to cope with what I imagine would be the results Wl're I to l'ease masking this aspect of my 
lwwPver. ready to end my isolation, to meet with other gays. to talk with them, sharing PXp<'riences and problems and a good lime. This is why I have gone to the weekly nwPtings of the Gay Students of Notre Dame for the past year. At these meetings we quickly discovered that most of us can, with a little encouragement, see ourselves as \'ictims--of parents, of teachers, of dassmates, of books, of television comics, in short. of the atmosphere in which we grew up and of the world in which we must now function. But we also learned that much of this animosity can be put behind us because it no longer exists, or that it can be laughed at because it is the expression of ignorance and prejudice. Once we had done this, we knew we could talk about positive t­hings. about our relationships, the careers we hope for. the support we have received from family and friends. At present this is t•nough. 
Our gr·oup is not asking for anything from Notre Dame--least of all the right to exist, because we have learned that this belongs to us as human beings and cannot be certified can he purchased for one dollar at Pan-dori}'s or by writing to the GSND, P.O. Box :.!tlfi, Notre Dame. We will also staff a campus telephone on Friday and Saturday nights from !l to 10 p.m. (The number of this tt'lephone will be advertised as soon as it is available l. None of us promise all the an­swt'rs: but we are willing to share our concern and our knowledge with those who need them. 
We offer these services not so much to improve Notre Dame as to help people the way we ourselves have been helped by ot­hers. Someday the Gay Students of Notre Dame will cease to be invisible. They will have an office in LaFortune and they will be willing to publish their names when they write letters to the Observer. Most of us will be gone by that time and students five years from now will not understand what made us so timid. This is the fate--and the goal--of any political movement. What is, finally, of far greater importance is the human con­tact which we have now achieved, which we will not abandon, and which will make any future progress possible. 
1wrsonality. I say this because Notre Dame,;( hy any administration or student body. But .----------. 
t>ven though it is a community of int­dleetuals and Christians. has always been for mt• a hostile. threatening environment. I 
am not talking about the fact that the ad­ministration of this university does not n•t·ogni7.e the exist~nce of homosexuals; I am rt>ferring to the ridicule, ignorance, l'ontt>rnpt. and even hatred expressed in rllllll h<'rless ways by the people with whom I livt• and work. Many of these people mean nothing to nH'. Some of them are my fril•nds. intt>lligent and kind people, who would probably feel terrible for the things tlwy havt> said in my presence if they knew I was gay. 
I am not ready to tell them. I am, Wl' are prepared to offer something to Notre \ I>ame. First of all our meeting.s are open. to any members of this commumty who WISh . 
to attend them. We are eager to hear and respond to the ideas of both gays and straights. People who want to become actual nwmbers of our group must feel rt'ady to begin accepting themselves as gays and they must be willing to t_rust us. For those who have not reached thts stage-­and for anyone at Notre Dame who wants to combat his own ignorance and prejudice-­Wl' can provide information and someone willing to talk and listen. To do this we have prepared a pamphlet, "Coming Out: A Gay (;uide to Notre Dame-South Bend." which 



the essential of prayer 
edward sellner, o.s.c. 
There is power in a name. The names of places where the course of a nation's history has been changed, where great men or women whose words have moved millions to dl'l'ds beyond themselves lie buried and at pt•ace. where cities have risen from the plains and perished in the dust of ages past-­ther<' is power in those names which evoke mt•nwries and future dreams. Power too in the names of persons: the power to bring two strangers together when the name of a mutual friend is spoken. power when our names are shouted in a crowd to turn our ht•ads and discover who it is that called our nanw. Power too in healing when at last, after so much anguish. we can name what it is that is tearing us apart. And, in the name of .ksus. we Christians pray: prayer that at tinws evokes memories and future dreams, that gives us an experience of being calll'd ... together. that heals dislocated lives. 
In the namt' of Jesus we pray, and it is that name which sets us apart. It has soml'thing to do with relationship and identity. The name we speak does not belong to us: we belong to Him. As a poet discovers the mystery of words which wait to be revealed. as the sculptor is moved to tears by what his hands have fashioned out of stone, so also in prayer we are awed by Who it is that waits to speak, who we become and are when we take the time to listen and respond. The power of that name, the prayt•r which arises from within--it has sonH'thing to do with taking His experience and our own seriously, of taking respon­sibility for our history and times. and the daims Ill'. and they, make on us. 
To take seriously our history, we must begin with His. His prayer came to Him within the context of his own nation's history. a story-telling of saving deeds, prophetic voices. a covenanted community. Prayers of praise, petition, thanksgiving, sacrifice, and psalms. He affirmed them as !lis own. To His friends, He spoke of brevity, of private places, of the Father who is Ours. Ours--not in that He belongs to us, but we lwlong to Him. He also spoke of per­severance. patience; of solitude that can include struggle and letting-go. And at the center of His prayer there was a trust which could not be explained ... except by faith, or was it hope: or was it ... Love? 
Listeners. speakers, bearers of His name, 
wt• are not the same. For He has given us 
power to see things differently, to unmask 
our illusions and affirm all that is reality. It 
has something to do with relationship and 
identity. of seriousness, responsibility, and 
giving thanks. It has something to do with 
memory. 'future hope, present trust, of 
Whose we are and who we are. 

"Why do you weep when you pray?" 
Moche asks the young Eleizer, in Elie 
Wiesel's Night: 

"'I don't know why,' I answered, greatly tlistm·llt'd. The qut>stion had nevt'r t>ntered my lw~td. I wept because--because of sonwthing inside lilt' that felt the nt>ed for lt•ars. That was all I knew. 
'\\'h~· do ~·ou pray?' ht> asked lilt', after a IIIOnH'n(. \\'h~ did I 11ray? A strangt' question. Why did I lin··~ Why did I brt>athe? 
fr. ollie williams 
the priest must be personable, learned, and skilled. In short, no less than a doctor or lawyer, he must be a professional person accountable to himself, his colleagues, and his community. 
An interesting development in the Notre Dame Professional Theology Program <M.Th.) is 1 this 'year's entering class also includes two women and two married laymen. Although the program has always been open to all applicants who qualify, sine~ its primary focus is the Roman Catholic priesthood, only single males have been enrolled unil this year. Even though the Church has been hard pressed to provide scriptural and theological reasons for for­
bidding ordination of women and married laymen, it would seem to be politically naive to expect a change in the rule in the near future. Yet men and women are beginning to feel that even though they cannot be of­ficially ordained, they can still perform some essential work of ministry in various areas of the Church, and they can profit from a three year ministerial program. For example, the two women and two married laymen currently in the program ultimately hope to be able to exercise their ministry in such diverse fields as campus ministry, parish work, and Catholic education on the high school level. 
Notre Dame is now actively encouraging Roman Catholic Dioceses throughout the country to send some of their most promising seminarians to study here for priestly ministry. Just as some of the great European Catholic Universities have produced many of the learned leaders for the Church, so too Notre Dame would hope to offer the Church in the United States a center for creative and :fruitful scholarship where some of the most talented could grow and prepare for the future. 
, One hesitates to make a prediction on the future shape of ministry. The years ahead promise to be challenging and exciting ones for the Church, and those called to a life of ministry will be in the vanguard. To help t­he Church draw on its rich tradition and move forward to the challenge of the times is the crucial task of great Universities such as Notre Dame. 


conee S

rt I sprl'ngsteen
-

and e street band 
reuiew b~ gregg bangs 
Ever since Jon Landeau of The Rolling Stone labeled him as the "future of rock," Bruce Springsteen has had to live up to a reputation of being a fantastic in-concert performer. His ten shows at New York's Bottom Line drew fantastic reviews and were supposed to be the impetus which would establish him as a nationally known rock "star." 
With this fanfare, Springsteen and the E Street Band came to Chicago for the first time to play to a near capacity crowd in the Auditorium last Thursday night. Whether people were expecting the "future of rock" is mere speculation, but what they got was two and a half hours of inspired, energetic and tight (a rare combination) playing from the pride of Asbury Park, New Jersey. 
Springsteen's music seems to be a combination of just about everything imaginable in rock. From Chuck Berry to Van Morrison and various r&b groups, one could swear you hear the influence of some previous rock performer. However, Springsteen does not sound like any one performer as he has taken the parts and made the sum into his own distinct style. Primarily, his songs are stories of life_in the New Jersey-New York metropolitan area. With his raspy, strong voice, Springsteen paints a perfect picture of the tough, ever­moving world that he has not only written about, but lived. 
Live performances capture Springsteen at his best. It is here that he's able to convey the spirit and turbulence of his songs, which sometimes does not come across in his albums. The songs come to life as does Springsteen, who is in constant motion from the word go. 
Part of the dynamism of his performance has to be attributed to the E Street Band, who would be fantastic even without Springsteen. Perhaps the most admirable aspect about this band is their ability to perfectly support Springsteen's dynamic vocals while maintaining an identity of th­eir own. Dave Marsh, critic for Rolling Stone, maintains they may be "the great American rock&roll band." On Thursday, they certainly made a try for this distinc­tion. Led by saxman Clarence "Nick" Clemons and lead guitarist Miami Steve Van Zandt, the band makes their way through a plethora of rock sounds. From the soul-sounding "E Street Shuffle," to the blues based "Kitty's Back," to the straight out rock n'roll encore of "Devil with the Blue Dress On," "CC Rider" and' "Good Golly Miss Molly," they showed their diversity and originality. Make no mistake 
aboutit, they are not just a back-up band. 
Clemons is a superb sax player as he 
demonstrated time and time again, as well 
as being Springsteen's foil on stage. His 
towering prescence of cool compared to 
Springsteen's frenetic behavior was a joy to 
behold. 
VanZandt adds a lot to the band. He is an 
accomplished guitarist who can play slick 
soul leads as well as powerful rock riffs. His 
jams with Springsteen (himself an ac­
complished guitarist) showed off their 
ability and were crowd pleasers. Dressed 
in crimson red, Miami Steve was truly a ball 
of fire. 
However, nobody can outdo Springsteen. 
He can rock you as he did in his encore of 
Mitch Rider songs, amuse you with one of his 
several stories of life in New Jersey. en­
thrall you with thought provoking lyrics, 
(such as those found in "Jungleland") or 
just make you explode with energy with 
songs such as the amazing "RosaHta." 
The man has a presence about him 
Whether he's falling off tne stage <durin.' 
"Spirit in the Night"), bumping witl 
Clemons, or generally running around tht 
stage <he'd put Jagger to shame) you can't 
take your eyes off him. 
When at the Bottom Line, Springste<'r> wa 
advisP.d to keep the time of his shc·,.,.s dow ! 
to an hour and a half at most ber:ause it wa'• 
feared anything longer would wear Ule b....~·! 
down on an extended tour. Springsteen 
replied that the only thing getting ti: !d 
during his show would be the crowd 1is 
reply was quite prophetic at this Cl ~o 
concert. To many people, so is Jon Lan­
deau's. 


~6:.-=;;;th~e;;;o;;;b~se~rV;;e;;;r~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;T;;;ue;;s;;;da;;;y';;S;;,e~pt;;em;;b;;er;;;;;;3;;0,;;;;1~97'5 Fights blindness virus 

Sponsored by the ·oMBUDSMAN SERVICE 
Monday thru Friday: 9:30a.m. to5 p.m. 
Monday thru Thursday: 9 p.m. to Midnight 
Phone-283-7638 
Q. What should I do if I've experienced some complications with the summer storage? 
A. Casey Nolan, Student Union Services Commissioner, stated, "Any student with articles damaged, lost, or stolen can pick up a copy of the storage company's insurance form at the OM­BUDSMAN office. This should be filled out and returned to the OMBUDSMAN by October 2oth when all legitimate claims will be processed, filed, and settled." The OMBUDSMAN office is located on the second floor of LaFortune. 
Q. Is there a Notary Public on campus? 
A. Yes. There are four on campus--Marge or Billie in 315 of the Administration Building, Betty in the International Students office in the basement of LaFortune, and another in the Financial Aid office in the Administration Building (8 a.m.-5 p.m., Mon-Fri.). 
(l. 
What is the phone number I can call to rind out upcoming ac­tivities on campus? 

A. 
The Notre Dame Newsline at 2211 or the OMBUDSMAN at 7638. 



Meal ticket progra1n to re1nain in effect 
by John Calcutt Starr RPporter 

There is no truth to the rumor th­at the food ticket exchange 
program between St. Mary's and Notre Dame will be elimindted, according to Joe Corpora, 
Fr. Lynch dies: Mass Thursday 
Fr. John P. Lynch, 72, prefect of ··eligion at Notre Dame from 1937 
o 1942, died Monday morning at ;t. Luke's Hospital in St. Louis tfter a long illness. · 
Lynch was graduated from Not­re Dame in 1925 and was ordained m 1937. He served as assistant director of vocations at Notre Dame from 1942 to 1954. 
Lynch founded the St. Francis \avier Parish in Burbank, California. in 1954 and was pastor there until he returned to Notre Dame in 1962. 
A mass of resurrection will be wid at 3:30 p.m. Thursday in .Joreau Chapel. The wake will be 
t 7:30p.m. Wednesday. exchange. 

.!hili time. 
HAWAIIAN NIGHT TUESDAY $3.45 
Boar's Head brings the Islands to you. At less than Island prices! Delicious Hawaiian chicken dinner is only $3.45 per person plus tax. Includes Tropical fruit salad, wild rice, and sweet and sour sauce. Also: Boar's Head Salad Bar, hot bread, ice cream or sherbet, and coffee, tea, or milk. All for only $3.45 We're doing the whole place Hawaiian on Tuesday. Aloha. 
BOAR'S HEAD® 
RESTAURANTS 
52885 U.S. 31 North in South Bend 
Notre Dame Co-Exchange Com­missioner. 
"One hundred tickets per cam pus are distributed each day," Corpora said. "But not enough students use the tickets." 
He added, "So at Christmas the program will be evaluated and the food services may decide to cut down on the tickets allotted." 
He further explained that only 55 to 60 of the tickets distributed each day are actua!Jy used by Notre Dame students. 
"Sometimes students will 
remember that they have to do something else so they don't use the tickets," he remarked. 
Corpora stated that a few more St. Mary's students do participate in the program each Pvening. He estimated the number to be about 75 to 80. 
"I think the program was started about five years ago," Corpora said. 
He has no information on whether coeducation and the rise in number of women at Notre Dame has been a detriment to the 

New drug may cure VD 
NEW YORK <AP) -A new virus-hunting drug shows prom­ise of knocking out a virus that causes both blindness and a heretofore incurable venereal disease, a Harvard scientist said Monday. 
The virus is Herpes simplex, also the cause of "cold sores" and fever blisters. 
When Herpes Type One in­fects eyes, it can cause blind­ness by damaging the cornea or window of the eye. 
Herpes Type Two is a leading cause of venerea] disease, espe­cially painful in women and threatening death or damage to their babies who may become infected during birth. It's been called incurable in the sense that no drug has been able to penetrate deeply enough into body tissues where the virus "hides" between attacks or out­breaks. 
The new drug can penetrate deeply into tissues and in rab­bits has proved very effective against Herpes infections of the eyes and genitals, said Dr. Deborah Pavan Langston, 35. 
Dr. Langston received the Research to Prevent Blindness­William Friedkin Scholars Award on Monday. She said she would use the $25,000 award to soon begin human trials of the new drug in eye infections. She indicated tests for venereal in­fections are being planned, too. 
The new drug is named ARA­AMP and was developed by Dr. Langston and biochemists of Parke-Davis Co. in Detroit. 
She termed it an improved version of ARA-A, which is ex­pected to be approved soon by the Food and Drug Adminis­tration under the name Vidara­bine. 


Pittsburgh trip · Open tO StUdentS 
The Pitt Club, in conjunction with the Junior Class, has an­nounced a weekend trip to Pitt­sburgh for the Nov. 15 N.D. -Pitt football game. 
The trip is now open to all Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. Sign-ups are on Wednesday, Oc­tober 1, in the LaFortune Lobby at !l:OO. 
Round trip bus fare and game ticket are being sold as a package for $37. With hotel accomadations. the package is $56. 
No individual game tickets are available from the Pitt Club. Payment in full must be made at 
Dr. Langston said ARA-AMP is 500 times better than ARA-A at penetrating tissues because it is far more soluble. 
Viruses cause their damage from inside living cells and so are riot attacked by antibiotics or drugs that attack bacteria. 
The first antivirus drug, nick­named IDU, came alon~ 15 
Psychology meeting set 
The Psychology Department will 
hold its annual meeting to help 
prepare undergraduate students 
considering graduate study in 
psychology. 
This meeting is scheduled for 
Wednesday, Oct. I, at 6:30p.m. in 
Room 200 of Haggar Hall. 
Faculty members from the 
Psychology Department and 
graduate students will be available 
to advise students regarding 
criteria for graduate student 
selection. 
These people will also help students in preparing applications to graduate programs. They will outline some career opportunities to be pursued through graduate study in psychology. 


Observer Staff 
Night Editor ·· Maggie Waltman Features ·· Jim Stevens, Tom Assistant Night Editor .. Maureen O'Neil Flynn Sports ·· Ernie T., Bill Brink 
Typists ·· Mary Tobin, Camille Layout Staff ·· Jim Stevens, AI Arrieh, Neil Viii, Terri Harlan Rutherford Compugraphic .. Morey Blinder Day Editor .. Jim Eder Ad layout ·· Joe Graif, Anne Copy Reader .. Kathy Mills Peeler Editorials -· Ken Girouard Night Controller .. Dave Rust 
Six Concert Package SOUTH BEND SYMPHONY Student Prices $10, $8, $6 NOW ON SALE 
Student Union Ticket Office 
TODAY -FRIDAY 
fAT 








WA lillY II S 
HAPPY HOUR DAILY 4 -7 
Free cheese and crackers 
Monday  -Football Night  
GIANT 7' SCREEN  
Tuesday  -Free Movies 9:00  

Wednesday -Ladies' Night (complete disco format) SATURDAY FOOTBALL SPECIAL 
open at 9:00 a.m. Large Sausage Pizza $2.88 carry out 277-0570 2046 South Bend Ave. 
years ago. It had effect against Herpes One, said Dr. Langston, but had drawbacks, with the virus becoming resistant to it and patients sensitive to it. 
ARA-A overcame those prob­lems, she continued, and could be taken by mouth as well as applied locally. It has been used against encephalitis and other virus disease, includingsmallpox. 
ARA-AMP can also be giv­en by mouth as well as by local injection and other means, and appears to be safe in pregnant animals, the researcher said. 
It is also effective against cold sores, she added. 
Dr. Langston said Herpes One attacks the eyes of 297,000 Americans each year, with 18,­000 now totally blinded in both eyes. and 75,000 or more blinded in one eye by th~ virus. 
. Herpes Type Two affecting genitals causes painful blisters, swellings and other troubles. Babies may pick up the virus when passing through the va­gina. Some become blinded or die of encephalitis. Caesarean birth is often advised for in­fected mothers. 

. . ................ ..................... ..... .
~ ~ 


Tuesday, September 30, 1975 the observer 
lD

No body found • Hoffa case 
I>I<~TROIT <API -Contact the body and were waiting for news conference in Washington Galunaro said he wants more last seen. 
was re-established Monday with the answers before proceeding that the informant had pro­specific directions to the would­There has been no proof of 
a mysterious underworld infor-again. vided subcomittee investigators be grave, supposedly about 15 Hoffa's death, his son
although

man! who says he knows where In Washington, a spokesman with a map, prepared by a sec­mles northwest of the 'Machus and others have they be­
saidthe body of ex-Teamster presi-for the Senate subcommittee on ond informant, which was sup­Red Fox Restaurant in subur­lieve the labor leader has beendent James R. Hoffa is buried, Permanent Investigations said posed to lead authorities to ban Detroit. where Hoffa was assassinated.

investigatgrs said. the tipster is getting his infor-Hoffa's body. 
Squads of state police and mation from one of three men FBI agents spent the weekend who are said to have buried Jackson said further steps digging in a swampy field 25 Hoffa. are being taken to provide miles north of Detroit for the The spokesman also said the Michigan authorities with new remains of Hoffa after receiv-subcommittee believes the tip-information. "We anticipate ing information from the tip-ster's source is being held by there will be some new devel­stcr. Although nothing was top underworld figures until in-opmcnts in the short period found, officials said they still vestigators find Hoffa's body. ahead," Jackson said. had confidence in the inform-Some law enforcement officials Gallinaro indicated that tele­pr's information. believe Mafia kingpins are try-phone contact with the infor-
William B. Gallinaro, a Sen-ing to help solve the Hoffa mys-mant has been tenuous at best ate subcommittee investigator, tery in order to ease pressure since the tipster first contacted said he re-established contact put on them by federal investi-him Aug. 28. On that date, Gal-with the informant Monday gators. linaro said the informant told after a 12-hour hiatus. him he had information about 
Investigators say they gave Sen. Henry M. Jackson D-the location of Hoffa's body. the informant a list of questions Wash., chairman of the in~esti-The ex-Teamsters boss has n'lating to the exact location of gations subcommittee, told a been missin~ since July 30. 
Smoke bombs strike Fisher, Pangborn I 

by Jot> Gill evacuated. One student was in­111ere sa1d the smoke bomb was ~ SPECIAL! ~ 
Starr Rt>porter jured while trying to escape. thrown by "a drunk, and we got him out of there pretty quick." Pangborn and Fisher Halls and night, Nickie's One smoke grenade was lit on I LET us DO THE COOKING THIS ;
Saturday both 

two area bars were struck by the third floor of Pangborn on
and The Library were the targetssmoke grenades over the weekend. of smoke grenades. "Bullet" head Thursday night. The third floor ~ WEDNESDAY & THURSDAY ~ 
Although no damage was repor­was evacuaiPd.
bartender at Nickie's, stated "At

ted. one student was injured. about 2:40 a.m., a heavy-duty Dean of Students, James NIGHT
I I 
industrial smoke bomb was lit by Roemer voiced his displeasure
Thirteen smoke grenades were two guys. over the campus incidents, stating COME AND ENJOY!
I I 
lit in i''isher Hall on Sunday at 6 ''Just because this occurred on 
a.m. One student reported that "The. smoke was so thick that campus, it doesn't lessen the 
"Sonwone on the second floor woke they ran right past us,and we severity of the crime." "If I ever up l'O~.ghing and pulled the fire l'ouldn't see them. Within seconds, discover this of any student at 
!fHE BACK DOOR! 
alarm . people cleared out," he explained. Notre Dame, he will be removed The South Bend fire department A similar incident was reported from the community im­I (NEXT TO CAPRI LIQU :JR STORE) I arrived and the building was at The Library, but personnel mediately, " Roemer warned. 
..........................................................................................~ 
WANTED 
Bio Club T-shlrts arriving within the week. Orders now being taken.

CLASSIFIED ADS
N£"£"d 3 tick£"1s for MSU gam£'. Call 107 Galvin, Mon. ·Thurs,: 2:00·4:30 Mik£" after 6 p.m. 288·0088 until Oc1 2. Only $2.2.80.
Need 2 Navy GA tix. Will pay. Call Help. N£"ed tix to USC or any home For Sale: 1 senior season ticket. Jim 272·6792. game. Nano 4424. Call 3149.
Need ride MWF from Portage & 
Quick Loans 1 ~>rrlssey Loan

Angela to NO. Can leave 9 a.m. or 
Need 2 GA tix for MSU. Cash or Wanted: 2 or 4 MSU G.A. tix. Call Sony 5" TV $100. HP·45 calculator, Fund. Up to S150. odays 1percent£"arller. Call 233·5630, any evening. 
trade student tix for other games. Drew 3272. does standard deviation, great for interest. Basement of LaFortune. 289·4350. psych, statistics, physics courses, M-F 11:15-12:15.
Need two GA tickets to Southern Need riders to Phlla. Oct. 2·5. Both $225 or offer. Write 203 Fisher.
Cal. Call 7471. 
Need 1 ticket for USC and Navy. ways. Share expenses. Call Dave Phone 1945. Best Prices in Town! I Jennifer's Call Jeff 1075. 8361. 119 w. Colfax 11:00·5:30 Mon..sat.
Need two GA tickets to Michigan State. Call 7471. Stereo, Sony HP610A. 20 watts
Will pay C·note for 4 GA tlx to N£"eded: 2 GA USC tickets. Cal "Gay Guide to Notre Dame·South
RMS. Dual turntable, 12" 2W
MS U. 272-6290. Mike 6939. Bend," $1.00, at Pandora's or write
Need 2 or 4 G.A. tix tor Southern speakers. $350. Paul 8131. 
GSND, Box 206, Notre Dame.

Cal. Call Jean 7034. 
Others speak of sex and death. All 

STEREO EQUIPMENT . major
I need are 2 Southern Cal tickets.

Rich alumnus will pay more for 4 Need 3 M.S.U. G.A. tix. Call 8772. brands at substantial savings; all
I'm Mary at 6680.

USC tix. Call Jim at 8904 for info. factory sealed under manufac. 
PERSONALSNeed 2 GA MSU tickets. Call Alice turer's warranty. ELLIOTTNeed 2 or 4 GA Mich. St. tlx

N£'ed MSU tlx. Will pay. Call Scott 5494. ENTERPRISES 233·3769 (after
together. Chip, 1026.

1762. 3:30p.m.). Students earn while you learn part.
3 students looking for 4th room·

HELP! Will pay $15 apiece for 2 or time. Contact work. Afford extra
mate at Campus View. 272·2701. B. B. 
4 MSU tickets. Call Sue 7973. income. For appointment, 684· FOR RENT Things are definitely not ef.
4396.

Need 2 Mich. State tickets for a lob flclent. I think we need a newNeed two GA tickets to MSU game. 
next year. Please call call Mike "filing" system.
Gary 1802. Students or faculty, 5 rms. fur.
1438. T.C. Need 2 Michigan State tix. Call 
nished. Private. utilities, fur· Need two tickets to MSU. Will pay 1630. nished. Security deposit, near
Have 4 USC tlx. Want to trade for 4

SS$. Call Jim 1777. campus. 1002 Campeau St. Call
MSU tlx. Please call 5280. Wanted: 2 Mich. State ticket and 3 
234.7925. Southern Cal tickets. Call Dan
have no scruples, and Quo vadls, you nut. Now isllh£' time 
desperately need two G.A. 1219. to come to my ald. See ya soon, 1 Michigan State tickets. Will pay Desperately need 2 GA Mich. State NOTICES hope. S25 total (I am also poor, you see). & 1 Southern Cal ticket. Pat 1583. Call Tom after 7:30p.m. at 1715 or Brandy you're a fine girl, and a
Need two So. Cal. tix. Call Murph
288-8417. Please help1 Need Rod Stewart tlx. Preferably Accurate fast typing. Mrs. perfect roomie. Now don't blow
287·0742.
lsi few rows. Will pay$$. Call 272. Donoho. 232-0746. your cool. Need four tickets to USC game. 1400. 
Needed: 4 tickets to Pittsburgh
Call VIckie 3567. Typing: experienced in senior
game. Call 4300. 
essays, dissertations, etc. TEST YOUR TALENT. Need 2 or 3 G.A. tickets to MSU. Reasonable, accurate. 232-5715.
Desperately need 2 Chicago tix In 

Call Mark 1475. Dan Devine, you're bellislm£"
lower arena. Call Bob 272·1400. 

Will do typing, experienced. Term Need 4 GA tlx for Georgia Tech LOST & FOUND papers, manuscripts, etc. Call:
Wanted: GA tix for Southern Cal. 

game. Call 5470. 233·8512. Hey there· Little !Green Riding Hood
Call 6896. 

Polka time at Kub's sure was good Desperately need 3 G.A. or student Gray kitten found outside LeMans (and afterwards was better still)
Need two tix to Mich. State. Will Fran Says: I just want you to know 
tickets for Michigan State. Call Friday night. If you own or know But now It's time to take those 
pay. Call 291·3075 before noon or you can count on me for all your
Mary Kay 6804. who does, please call 6815. tests
after 6 p.m. dance instructon needs. Learn the 
Good luck, take care of business,fad dances; namely, Bump, Hustle,

Wanted: three MSU tickets. Lost: eyeglasses. Lost outside do your best
Need 2 USC tickets. Call Dave 1741. Young Frankenstein; plus your
Please call Mark 256·1206. stadium after Northwestern game. Just keep me In mind when it's
formal dances; namely: foxtrot.
Call 6845. Ask for Ellie. time for recess
Need 2 G.A. tckets to Pitt game. waltz, rock and cha·cha. Classes 
Good money paid for any home 
Call Lisa, 8089. Tuesday and Wednesday a""·­
tickets. Call John 1816. Junior P·B Polka Partner
ternoons, from 3·5. $2 each class. Desperately need two Southern Lost: a lighter with map of Faculty, Staff and Students In· 
NEED 4 USC and 5 Navy tickets. Ubi amor lbl oculus.
Cal. tix. Call Bob 3665. Germany near library. Call Mark vited. Join us for any class; always
Will pay well. Please call 5168. 
289·8924. a beginner group. Also classes on Need 2 tlx for MSU game. Call 272· Tuesday evenings from 7: 30·9: 30. Write your favorite person a
Need 4 MSU and USC tickets. Call 
0495. Lost: Gold Bulova.caravelle Faculty, Staff and Students are personal In The Observer. Betcha 
3648. 
watch with football inscribed on invited. $2 each class. they'll get off on It I Will trade 1 GA MSU ticket for 1 the face, in the South Dining Hall. 
Need four Chicago tickets. Call 
GA USC ticket. Call after 6:00p.m. If ound, call John 1169. Sunflower Music Shop. Vintage Sl· Need travel companion to tour3537. Ask for Matt. 
289·6535. ringed instruments. Expert repair. Europe next semseter. Call 1425. Books, records and accessories. 
Need 2 G.A. tickets for Michigan 
Need ride to Chicago Thursday FOR SALE 632 Portage Ave. 
State. Will pay $$. Call 289·8352 or October 2. Call Betsy 1363.
288·0952. 
The amateur Radio Club will meet Six concert package, South Bend Wanted: 2 GA tickets for Georgia Garrard turntable. Also Memorex Tuesday night at 7 p.m. behind H· Symphony, student prices $10, S8, 
Desperately need G.A. tlx to Mich. 
Tech. Will pay $. Helpl Call Mary & TDK cassette tapes. Tom 287· oly Cross Hall. Attendance Is very and$6. Available at Student Union 
State. As many as 6. Call Steve at 
5135. 6673. important. For Info: call Jeff 3276. Ticket Office, Monday thru Friday.
8624. Will pay ss. 
the observer Tuesday, September 30, 1975_ 

• Doug Becker directs ND defense 
by Tom Kruzcek F'or two years now, the legen­dary exQloits of Doug Becker have tilled the north quad and the eampus. Late night raids as a member of the Klan, uprooting st­reet signs. and general hell-raising in Stanford and the dining halls-­a c1 to think he's only a sophomore. ~ut in an explanation of some of hi~ feats. he stressed that he seems to , ~ getting a bad repuration. "'1:1e street sign is my room­mate's, and as for the' Klan, a couple of weeks ago I went over to Hoss Browner's room dressed in a bedsheet. and it was a lot of fun, but that's all that happened." That really isn't all that's happened to the native of Hamilt­on. Ohio this year. He is occupying the distinctive position of being the signal-caller for the defense in only his second year here at the university. What makes it more unique is that Becker assumed the role. in his first starting assign­ment as linebacker on defense. "Jim Stock, who is the defensive captain, didn't feel comfortable doing it in fall practice, and the job was given to me. Then since we did so well at Boston College, we decided to stick with it for good luck." Becker, although it was his first starting assignment, saw 39 minutes of action last year on the specialty teams, in kick offs and punting, managing to get 12 tackles. "I really liked being able to play on the kick teams," he explained. "It was a great feeling to be out there and also because the kick .teams can set the tone for the rest 
of the game when they do an 
especially good job on the opening kkick-off. This year I'm on the kick teams again and I still like it." 
Becker, who has accounted for 27 tackles this year, is playing on a defense that has given up just 10 
~omts in three games and has been called by many observers as one of the top units in the country. To Becker, the word unit says it all. 
"We haven't changed much on defense in the past year. Most of the guys are used to playing toget­her and we have a lot of unity. We are good as a unit playing together and that is what helps us a lot. When the line does a good job rushing, it helps to take a lot of the pressure off the pass coverage because the quarterback is going to have to throw the ball a lot quicker and at linebacker, we try to hit people, because that's our J~Ob. We try to help each other and keep each other up." 
The Herring award winner from last year then tried to put his finger on the differences between last year's team and the present one. 
''With the coming of Coach Devine, things are different but its hard to say what the difference is. Coach Devine is just as intense as Coach Parseghian was,maybe its just that he isn't the real emotional type." 
With the additional responsibility 
of signal calling, the first game against Boston College added an additional dimension of pressure. "I was really nervous against the Eagles, but when we played the first home game, it really was a great experience." 
Coming here as an all-Southwest 

Ali and Frazier set to tangle in Manila 
fifth round June 17, 1974, at NewMANILA !AP>-Muhammad Ali York. 

vs. Joe Frazier, one of boxing's But Frazier and his handlers feel greatest rivalries, is set to close that his condition and attitude will here Wednesday morning, 4% more than offset his inactivity.
years after it first began 11,000 "He wants this more than he'smiles away. 
ever wanted anything," saidFrazier, then heavyweight 
trainer Eddie Futch. "I like Joechampion, knocked Ali down in the either way -a decision or a15th round and won the first fight knockout." said George Benton, aby unanimous decision March 6, former top middleweight who has1971 at Madison Square Garden in been working with Frazier sinceNew York. 

before las( year's fight withAli evened the series with a Quarry.

unanimous 18 round decision (in a If Frazier does become the third fight orr Jan. 28, 1974, also in 
nan ever to regain .the

the Garden. Neither man was heavyweight championship <Floyd champion at the time. 
Patterson and Ali have done it)heAnd Ali is about a 2-1 favorite to said he could see himself retiringwin what is expected to be the as champion. But his attorney,finale a scheduled 15 rounder at the Bruce Wright, pointed out that the26,000 seat Philippine Coliseum in economics of big time fightingsuburban Quezon City. 

made it difficult for a man to retireThe fight is scheduled for 10:45 while he is champion.

a.m. Manila time and will be seen on closed-circuit television in the United States at 10:45 p.m., EDT, 
but Jay Edson of Phoenix, Ariz., is considered the leading candidate. Edson refereed George Foreman's Final Standings controversial one round knockout Amt>rican League of Joe "King" Roman in Tokyo. East GBFilm showed that Foreman hit w L Pet. Homan while Roman was down. Boston 95 65 .594 
Two other possible referees are Baltimore 90 69 .566 41'2 Zack Clayton of Philadelphia, who N.York 83 77 .519 12 handled the African fight in which Cleveland 79 80 .497 151/z Ali regained the title by knocking Milw'kee 68 94 .420 28 out Foreman, and Harry Gibbs of Detroit 57 102 .358 37 112 Britain. who officiated in Frazier's West decision win over Joe Bugner. Oakland\ 
98 64 .605 Ali feels that a referee won't be Kan.City 91 71 .562 7 needed for long. Texas 79 83 .488 19 
"The first combination in the Minnesota 76 83 .478 20 112 first minute or two of the first Chicago 75 86 .466 221!2 round and the fight could have an California 72 89 .447 25 1'2 
early end," the champion said, "The first round of the fight will be Saturday's my 42nd this year." 
Chicago 1, Minnesota 0Ali has made much of his ac­Cleveland 5, Boston 2tivity. and Frazier's inactivity. Ali New York 3-7, Baltimore 2-3,opened 1975, five months after 1st game 10 innings

beating Frazier, by stopping 
Milwaukee 5, Detroit 2Chuck Wepner in the 16th round Oakland 6, California 3March 24 in Cleveland. He then Texas 5, Kansas City 4

stopped Ron Lyle in the 11th round May 16 at Las Vegas, Nev., and 
Sunday's

easily outpointed Joe Bugner over 16 rounds July 1 in Kuala Lampur Baltimore 3·-2, New York 0-3 Malaysia. Cleveland 11, Boston 4 
Frazier has fought just once this Chicago 6, Minnesota 4, 10 in-year, stopping Jimmy Ellis in nings the ninth round March 2 at Milwaukee 7, Detroit 0 Melbourne, Australia, and has Texas 3, Kansas City 1 fought only 14 rounds since the Oakland 5, California 0
.. 
second Ali fight. In the other bout, Ohio linebacker, Becker had the natural qualifications for a postion that boasts such standouts as Greg Collins, Drew Mahalic, Nick Buoniconti and Jim Lynch. At 6'0 and 220 pounds, along with a great quickness and the desire to hit, Becker fits nicely into the tradition of greatness that George Kelly, the linebacker coach. has fostered here. 

"It was nice to be able to learn from people like Mahalic and Collins, because just being able to watch them play, you could learn so much." 
But even to the most outgoing of our linebackers there is always the quiet side. Mahalic worked with the retarded children at the state hospital last year, and for Becker, its work in sociology. 
"I came here to Notre Dame because they had-a fine winning tradition, but also because the university has such a high academic reputation." 
With his -first college visit reserved for Notre Dame, the ch­oice was easy to make in wake of the national title and the Sugar Bowl defeat of Alabama. "I visited Ohio State and Purdue, but because of the tradition, I came to Notre Dame." 
But in coming to Notre Dame he also exposed himself to the stereotyped image as the "big jock," an image Becker strongly dislikes. "I don't like to feel like I'm a high and mighty person just because I play football here." 
So Doug Becker is not a maniac after all. But you'd have a tough 
Irish linebacker Doug Becker leaps in the air attempting to block a 
been medal. I thought it would give the girls more experience inTuesday. 
The referee has not been named, 


Final standings 
time convmcing his opponents: 
punt against Boston College. 
*ObServer 






Sports 
• 

ND women's golfers lose 
Hy Eileen O'Grady 

Notre Dame's Women's Golf medalist at the tournament, team lost their match against St. winning the two points for the Mary's Sunday. According to team. Leslie Barnes was the 
Nassau match competition, ·St. second woman on the team, Linda Mary's defeated Notre Dame 10-2. 
Sisson third and Louise Karas In medal play there was an 11 fourth. stroke difference in team totals. 
Breesmen accounts the loss to Caotain Barb Breesmen was the 
match play. "This is the first time we've played match competition. Every other one we've played has 
match play. But the girls were too concerned with their opponents'Final Standings 
play instead of playing the course. 
National League 

The golf team's next tournament East will be at Indiana University at w L Pet. Bloomington on Oct. 10. It is an
GH

Pitts invitational tournament for 12
92 69 .57.

Philphia colleges in the Midwest.
!\6 75 .531 (jl2

N. York 
82 80 .506 JOI ~ 

St. L'is 
82 80 .506 JOI ~ 

Montreal 
75 87 .463 17 1~ 

Chicago 
75 B7 .463 


Casey Stengel 
close to death 


in California 
GLENDALE, Calif. tAP> Casey Stengel, the baseball Hall of Fame great, was re­ported gravely ill Monday with cancer of the lymph glands. The illness was described as "probably terminal." 
A family spokesman said Stengel. 85, who was admitted to Glendale Memorial Hospital two weeks ago, had been placed in the intensive care unit. 
The spokesman, Rod De­deaux. coach of the University of Southern California baseball team and a longtime friend of StengeL added, "He is Mr. Baseball. This is a sad day." 
Stengel was admitted to the hospital Sept. 14 for what was then described as a series of routine tests. The seriousness of the illness was not disclosed until Monday. 
Stengel was a player before becoming a manager who pi­loted the New York Yankees to 10 American League pennants and seven World Series cham­pionships. Later he was the first manager of the New York Mets. 
fo\iDlTA'TIO~ ,,.. 
~ll'fE~Clv...,. 

West 17'~ Be With ...,. c~to~.tH~ ot Cinci 
108 54 .667 

L.A. 
88 74 .543 2U 

S. Fran 
80 81 .497 271" 

S. Diego 
71 91 .438 37 


Baba

Atlanta 
67 94 .416 40 12 Houston 64 97 .398 43 12 Games 

Muktananda 

Pittsburgh 4, St. Louis 2 Cincinnati 7, Atlanta 6 Montreal 5, Chicago 3, 11 innings ~Mth SUN~..,, ()(."tO-A 12.~ 14t1ft Los Angeles 5, Houston 1 Wltl:"&; <?otlt4UCOPr~ N-uaA\ F"oooc ~Cl'Titv~r Philadelphia 8, New York 1 Ml' Ul\k.eLNWA'f WllST, MltN.WAICA 
San Francisco 4, San Diego 1 ,.aowtM c~.. ,....-....~> $_,,, CCIII~: 
Games 8:JQ A.t1. RUl"'l"1'1tt-l,:oo-l"l.:Jo ~•llllllfll. S~SSII)~
New York 5, Philadelphia 4 
n.: ~0 '4K•'r'M lAIII tEA&.. S~JN·ID
Chicago 9, Montreal 6 
(:oo S'-'MS
Cincinnati 7, Atlanta 6 
~oo· ~:~o ltH. Arn:arlOCIN ~ss•C»>
St. Louis 6, Pittsburgh 2 San Francisco 5, San Diego 3 
e.cr\ •.1.o.ew> pe.-~, 115 s-ktkrsh 
San Francisco 5, San Diego 3 Houston 4, Los Angeles 2 ~~'MiT: N"ll. •• ..."'. S•• To Ae•v-" t~ 1'i.

~MS S'f oc:naeE• 5.,
Ht>gular St>ason Ends
he stopped Jerry Quarry in the 






