On The Inside 
New 0-C zoning.••••Page 3 "Fellows" in contest.•••• Page 6 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 60 Monday, January 20, 1975 
Lobby to be launched 
ISA tries to lower drinking age 
by Jim Eder 
cause constituents opposed to the bill to "As a private school, we are not con­amended," he continued. "We may not beContributing Editor 
put pressure on their state senators who cerned with student trustees, but the liquor able to get the legal age lowered to 18 but may not have taken a position on the issue is very important to us," Milligan we've got to shoot for that to ' getINDIANAPOLIS-The Indiana Student 
matter yet. continued. "Following Notre Dame's anything," Horne noted.
Association OSA> is planning to launch a example, our Dean's Office recently dried A student representative from PurdueSenate opposition expected lobby to promote the passage of a bill to up the campus . Drinking at social func­University, Lafayette, stated that helower the state's legal drinking age to 18. 
tions is prohibited and only students over would I.ike. to see an ISA lobby for lowering Represented by SBP Pat McLaughlin and "We will need every vote we can get in 21 can have liquor in their rooms," he the drmkmg age, but that his studentSBVP Frank Flanagan, Notre Dame the Senate, because it is controlled by a 
stated. ~overnment could not publicly participate joined five other Indiana schools at the ISA rather conservative Republican "The crackdown came without warning m such an effort.
meeting here last Saturday to discuss majority," Horne stated. 
between semesters and is strictly en­"~urdue can!lot. commit i~self to sup­strategy for the upcoming lobby. Horne explained at Saturday's meeting forced," Milligan said. "St. Joseph's, like portmg the drmkmg age bill until ourThe bill will be introduced in the Indiana that if the House passes the bill, ISA Notre Dame, is afraid of incurring a status for state funding has been secured " House next week by State Represen­representatives will meet with President lawsuit for allowing underage drinking on he said. A bill concerning high~rtatives Stan Jones, Marilyn Shultz and Pro Tempore of the Senate Phil Gutman 
campus." education funding is also currently in theStan Boyer. ISA lobbyists will present before the Senate takes action. Gutman, a In an August 26 directive Notre Dame statehouse. 
arguments for lowering the drinking age Republican from Ft. Wayne, will decide to Dean of Students John Macheca ruled that before the House committed hearings on which Senate committee the bill will go. 
students under 21 would not be allowed to IUSB opposes 18 drinking"Without at least slight support fromthe bill next month. Notre Dame has been consume alcoholic beverages on campus
invited to send a representative to the Gutman, the bill has little chance of in compliance with Indiana Mike Phoebus, student body president of 
two court
meetings. passing," Horne said. "Gutman can kill Indiana University South Bend, reported
decisions extending legal liability for
"ISA would like us to be there to explain the bill by sending it to a committee whose that two-thirds of the IUSB senate voted
underage drinking to anyone having
the problems faced by a campus located so chairman is strongly opposed to it. We against lowering the drinking age.
knowledge of its existence.
close to a state with alowerdrinking age," must convince him to at least give the bill "The reason given most often by senate McLaughlin said. "They would also like us a chance of getting to the Senate floor by members for not supporting the bill is the
Political timing important 
to describe our Quickie Shuttle Bus to sending it to a committee withan un­increase in traffic accidents due to Michigan at the committee meetiings," he c9mmitted chairman," Horne explained. Horne, who has been receiving credit drunken driving in stages having an 18­stated. year...old drinking age," Phoebus ex­
Student trustee bill from Ball State for serving as the ISA full­Low-key House lobby time lobbyist, stated that the timing of the plained. 
A student representative from IndianaISA, a statewide student organization ISA is also supporting Senate Bill No. 10, ISA action will depend on how the U., Bloomington, pointed out that a recentfounded last summer, plans to conduct a which is currently before the House. The legislators act. 
Michigan state police report reveals thatlow-key lobby in the House, where the bill bill proposed to place student represen­"We don't want to jeopardize Senate Bill there is not much difference betweenis expected to have a good chance of tatives from stateuniversitieson the board No. 10, which we've been working on for drinking drivers of any age.
passing, and then wage a full-fledged of trustees. Notre Dame and other private months, but we can't afford to lose the "The report shows that 8.8 per cent of all battle in the Senate, where it faces stiff insitiutions would not be affected. drinking age bill either. Our timing is very automobile accidents involving drivers
opposition. Kurt Flock, a student representative important in all of this, " Horne stated. 
over 21 years old had drinking drivers. Of"The House in controlled by a relatively from Indiana University , Bloomington, "And both bills may very well be drivers under 21 having accidents, 9.9 per
young, Democratic majority, many of suggested that the ISA delay its House cent were drinking," she said.
whom are openly in favor of lowering the lobby£orlowering the drinking age so that "Although the total number of accidents drinking age," stated Ted Horne, a student it will not hamper the passage of Senate involving drinking drivers has increasedlobbyist from Ball State University. Bill No. 10. 
in Michigan since it lowered the drinking"This together with the fact that the bill "I think we should wait until the second age, the report shows that 18-to-21-year-old will receive a bipartisan introduction reading of Senate Bill No. 10 in the House drivers are no worse than their oldershould help a lot," Horne explained. before we proceed with our lobby for counterparts," she noted.
Boyer, a 'Republican from Indianapolis, lowering the drinking age," Flock said. will join the two Democrats, Jones of West "We don't want the legislators to associate 
1~0 veto expectedLafayette and Shultz of Bloomington, in the two bills when making their 
presenting the bill to the House. decisions.'' A bill to lower the drinking age in In­"As long as we don't expect too much diana to 18 passed both the House and the 
Private school interest
trouble in the House, we don't want to stir Seante in 1972, but was vetoed by former things up any more than is necessary," Governor Edgar Whitcomb. Governor Horne said. "The Senate will present Tim Milligan, a student representative Otis Bowen has publicly stated that h~ enough of a challenge as it is without our from St. Joseph College, Rennselear, would neither sign nor veto a new bill, stirring up reactionary opposition ahead of argued against holding up action on the according to student lobbyist Horne. 
time." drinking age bill. "St. Joe's primary FRANK FLANIGAN represented Notre Consequently, the bill would become law Horne explained that a premature reason for joining the ISA was to work to Dame at the Indiana student association without his signature, if it were to pass campaign to lower the drinking age may lower the drinking age," he said. meeting last week. both houses again. 
Mardi Gras progress reported 
by Lonnie Luna Staff Reporter Pangborn's "Mine Shaft" <with a real sluice) featuring two 
Mardi Gras Chairman Dan Sullivan reported substantial poker tables and four blackjack games; progress in the booth construction at Stepan Center for "Gold Regina-Sarin's "Regsor Church of Chancetakers" with six Rush '75" which began Saturday. blackjack games, two dice games, one poker table and one 
Plans for the charities festival were finalized last Friday at wheel a meeting of hall representatives. Twenty-four booths will Hughy's "Livery Stable" with six blackjack stalls, one highlight this year's Mardi Gras. All but two dorms on poker table; campus are constructing booths, according to Sullivan. Sorin St. Mary's "Madam Christine's Parlor" featuring two and St. Mary's Regina Hall, Badin and Fisher, and Lyons and poker tables and three blackjack games; Morissey formed teams for sponsoring their booths. Sullivan Stanford 'Stanford Theater" with two poker tables and six added that all booths under construction will receive blackjack games; materials needed for building. Keenan's ''Bordello" with two poker tables (over and 
Developed by Notre Dame architect students, the floor under) and blackjack (12 deuce) ; pla~s call for visitors to enter through the "Gateway to the Walsh's "Saloon" <with two pianos on each end) spon­Mine" sponsored by Alumni Hall, where they venture into soring blackjack and poker; 
.chance by playing games of blackjack. WSND's blackjack games and DJ's; The miniature Las Vegas will also include the following: Zahm's "Assayers Office" exhibiting seven blackjack Badin & Fisher's "The Covered Wagon" with ten blackjack games and two poker tables; 
However, the above game plans are tentative as the Mardi games and two poker tables; 
Breen Philips' "Original Madame Fifi's" which will Gras Game Committee has not met to deliberate the game distribution and the rules for each game. Sullivan explained 
feature blackjack and poker; Dillon's "General Store"; 
that all rules will be clearly spelled out so that the student Flanner's "Flanner Hotel" with seven blackjack tables body will not feel it is being cheated. 
Mardi Gras will also be holding a dealer's school for those
and two dice games; Glee Club's "Clipper Ship" 
who are interested in dealing at the festival. Grace's "Funeral Parlor" with three poker tables and ten Sullivan emphasized the sale ff raffle tickets because 
Friday, Jan. 24will be the last day for the halls to reach theiw blackjack games; 
Howard's "Tent Saloon" featuring PQker tables, blackjack, quota. On Fiday, all unsold tickets will be turned in along with stubs of sold tickets and a list of sellers. 
big six, and roulette; 
Junior Class' "Sutter's Mill"; "So much hinges on the sale of the raffle tickets and if the Knights of Columbus' "Livery Stable" with eight blackjack students have sold their tickets, then Mardi Gras is on its way to success," said Peggy Foran, Mardi Gras commissioner.
games; 
Lyons-Morissey's "Lymor Bank" woith seven blackjack In addition fo the games of chance, the Mrdi Gras Com­games and one poker table; 
mittee will also have live music, and refresments will Neighborhood Study Help Program's "Jail" featuring highlight the final day's fanfare with a drawing for a 1975 Dodge Dart and a drawing for the seller's prize, a color TV.
blackjack and poker; 
Ombudsman's "Fort Om" with blackjack, three All students who have sold a book of tickets are eligible for 
man throw<a Wizard of Om invention) and a fortune teller; the second drawing. 
/ 


r 
'1 
I• 
the observer Monday, January 20, 1975
2 
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -The National Transportation Safety Board opens a week-long hearing Monday into the worst U.S. air disaster of 1974, the Dec. 1 crash of a TWA jetliner that killed 92 persons and touched off a major controversy over air trasffic control procedures. 
NEW YORK <UPI) -Charges that Medicaid ripoffs have sometimes made growing old a sentence to maltreatment and drugged incoherence in squalid nursing homes will come under tough scrutiny this week by a Senate subcommittee. 
SAN JUAN, P.R. <UPI) -Two Soviet cruise ships cancelled stops this weekend in San Juan after the State Department told them it could not guarantee their security in the harbor, the U.S. Coast Guard said Sunday. 
The two liners, Nikolai Anajev and Mikhail Lermontov, were scheduled to arrive here simultaneously with a third Soviet cruise ship, Maxim Gorky, which was the target of a terrorist attack three weeks ago. 
GRESHAM, WIS. <UPil -With hopes of a quick settlement crumbling and talks stalled, the National Guard brought in replacement troops Sunday to man checkpoints around the Alexian Brothers abbey which has been occupied by armed Indians since Jan. 1. 
CHARLESTON, W.VA. <UPIJ -The Ku Klux Klan has pledged its support of the Kanawha County ban-the-books crusade and said it would financially assist a protest leader charged with par­ticipating in plots to bomb schools. 
ATHENS <UPil -Former chief of Greek intelligence Michael Roufogalis, the last of five junta leaders accused of responsibility for the 1967 military takeover to appear before an investigating judge, Sunday denied charges of high treason and insurrection. 
NEW YORK (UPI) -A sniper early Sunday fired at least two rifle shots into two bedrooms in the Soviet Mission to the United Nations, apparently in retaliation for Soviet policy toward Jews. 
ISTANBUL <UPil -The foreign ministers of Iran and Iraq Sunday broke off talks on long-standing border disputes after three days of fruitless negotiations, an Iraqi spokesman said. 
LONDON (UPil -Gunmen shooting from cruising auromobiles fired machine guns into two fashionable London hotels Sunday night and Scotland Yard said seven persons were injured. 
LONDON <UPI> -Scotland Yard detectives, hunting the kid­napers of a 17-year-old heiress held for $117,500 ransom, said Sunday they arrested a suspect for attempting to extort the money from the girl's family. 


an campus laday 
7 p.m. -touch dancing with fran demarko, lafort une ballroom 
8:10p.m.-basketball, n.d. vs. holy cross, a.c.c. 
the observer 
Night Editor . Andy Prasch ak Sports . Greg Corgan Typists . Kathy Grace, Nell Viii,
Ass't Night Editor · Mary Janca Layout . Dan Sanchez, Mike Martha Fanning, Rick Huber Sarahan, Kathy Skiba, Mike 
Compugraphic Operator -Bob Lyons, Maureen Sajbel, Martha Steinmetz Fanning, Marlene Zlosa 
Picture Screener . Albert D'An­Copy Reader . Pat Hanifin tonio Day Editor . Bill Sohn 
Night Controller . AI Rutherford, Features -J. Robert Baker 
Howard Halle 
IN CONCERT 

HELEN REDDY 
with SpeciaiGuest PETER ALLEN 
SUN. FEB. 9th 8:00 P.M. 
Ticket Prices NOTRE DAME
Bleachers _______ $4.50 Lower Arena _____ $5.50 ATHLETIC AND Floor, Loge •• -• -_ $6.50 CONVOCATION CENTER 
and Platforms ____ $6.50 
Concert Tickets Now on Sale 
NOTRE DAME, A.C.C. Mon.. Sat. 9 to 5 
Robertsort's 
South Bend & Concord Moll 
St. Joseph Bank 
and branche• 
First Bank 
Main office only 
Elkhart Truth 

The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame~ St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor $9 per semester ($16 per year) from ·The Observer Box'· Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
camp•Is view 

OFFICE OF VOLUNTEER SERVICES 
Time on your hands? Spend it helping someone. ontact Fr. Tom Stella, C.S.C., 7308 
~1111PUI 


VIe 

GJE and lV\0 BEDROOM 
RJRNISHED APARTMENTS iC COMMUNITY BUILDING iC INDOOR SWiMMING POOL 
TO BE COMPLETED IN FEB 

A  NEW  APARTMENT  COM­ iC I  "BASKETBALL COURT  
MUNITY  DEVELOPED FOR  
iC  SHAG CARPET  
THE  STUDENTS OF NOTRE  
DAME & SAINT MARY'S.  CAMPUS  iC  2 BATHS IN 2 BEDROOM APT  
VIEW IS SET IN A WOODED SURROUNDING YET IS ONLY  iC  ALL APPLIANCES COLOR .COORDINATED  
3 BLOCKS  FROM NOTRE DAME.  iC  SECURITY  
LOCATED JUST ONE  BLOCK  iC  SOUND CONDITIONED  
NORTH OF STATE  RD.  23  OFF  
OF  WILLIS RD.  iC  PRIVACY  

"roNRENTING FOR SECON> SEMESTER" FOR RENTAL INFORMATION PHONE 272-1441 
SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS PRESENTS 


RARE EARTH 
WITH SPECIAL GUEST 
PURE FUNK 
IN CONCERT 
IN THE FINE ACOUSTICAL SETTING OF THE 

MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
NEXT TUESDAY, JANUARY 28, 
7:30 p.m. 
TKKETS: $5.501N AD\'ANC'E, $6.00 DA\' OF SHOW. TI<'KETS GO ON St\LE TOMORROW AT THE STl!DENT llNION TlfKET OFFJ('E, MORRIS CIVIC, AND BOOGIE RE('ORDS AT 11 : 00 A.1\1. 
ALL SEATS GENERAL ADMISSION 
Monday, January 20, 1975 the observer 
New zoning to stop 0-C rentals 
proposed change. Commission.
by Ellen Syburg The Harter Heights area is zoned "They will hold a public hearing 

Staff Reporter 

for single family dwellings and the on it, probably not before amendment defines family as "one February 18, and make a An amendment to the city zoning or more persons related by blood, recommendation on it, he said. The ordinance designed to stop the legal adoption or marriage." Council will then hold a public
recent increases in absentee The residents of the neigh­hearing before making its landlords and student occupancy borhood, an upper middle-class decision. It is not likely that a in the Harter Heights neigh­area directly southwest of the decision could be made before the 
borhood will be presented at the University,, feel that this will then middle or end of March." January 27th South Bend Common prevent landlords from buying James Langford, director of the 
Council meeting. several houses in the neighborhood University Press and an The bill will be introduced by and renting them to groups of association member, stressed that 
Common Council President Roger 
students. _ this was not an anti-student or anti­Parent on behalf of the Harter Parent explained that after the Notre Dame action. "We are not Heights and Neighbors initial reading of the bill at next going to affect the student Association, a recently formed week's meeting it will be referred population that much. It is not a organization that drafted the to the South Bend Area Planning retroactive ordinance." 
"Those houses now rented to 
students may still be rented to
British, IRA may call lor 
students up until the time that their 
ownership changes. We just want 
to prevent any further increase in 
the number of student houses and 
By FRANK JOHNSTON ... to join the procession. absentee landlords." 
BELFAST <UPI) -British The death of the boy at He also explained that because 
officials and political envoys of Forkhill, 35 miles southwest of landlords now renting to students 
the outlawed Irish Republican Belfast, was the first fatality are realizing a profit they will be 
Army met Sunday for the first attributed to sectarian violence unlikely to sell their homes and 
time after five years of since Dec. 14, six days before thus the number of student houses 
violence to try to negotiate a the IRA began a 25-day available in the area should 
new Northern Ireland cease-ceasefire that expired last remain the same. 
fire. week. "I would anticipate little change, 
The embattled island, mean-His death upped the toll in at least for five or six years," he 
while, suffered its first sectari-Northern Ireland to 1,144 said. Perhaps by that time the 
an fatality in five weeks when a persons killed since August, Notre Dame administration will 
landmine near the border with 1969, when the IRA launched a have found an over-all solution to 
the Irish Republic blew up and born b and bullet campaign to their off-campus problem." 
killed a 7-year-<~ld boy. drive British troops from the Langford also explained that the 
No results were disclosed at province. neighborhood association was 
the first session of the peace 
talks, held at a secret location, 
but the Rev. William Arlow, a 
Protestant clergyman who 

cease-lire in North Ireland 
Simon sees inflation drop
helped arrange the meeting, 
said afterward, "So far, so 
good." WASHINGTON <UPI) than $40 billion in 197fl A 
The negotiators were expect­Treasury Secretary William E. budget deficit of at least that· 
ed to meet again Monday. Simon, the administration's No. size now seems certain. 
In Dublin and Belfast thou­I economic spokesman, predict­Simon was asked about his 
sands of men, women and ed Sunday the nation's unem­current estimates of how many 
children braved wind and rain ployment rate will crest at near people would be jobless and 
to join in peace marches 8 percent, and the inflation rate .how much improvement can be 
organized by the Roman will dip to about 7 per cent by expected in rate of inflation 
Catholic church and the three the end of this year. during 1975. 
main Protestant denominations. Simon also said he will "Our forecast is constantly 
A scuffle broke out in the continue to serve in the Cabinet being revised as events chan­
Dublin march when IRA and will fight on Capitol Hill for ge," Simon said. "But right 
supporters carrying signs read­approval of President Ford's now we believe that the 
ing "Peace with Justice" tried economic and energy package. unemployment rate will peak in 
"I am very optimistic that the area of 8 per cent and that 
we're going to succeed" in inflation will come down in the 
getting the programs through area of 7 percent toward the
New alcohol 
Congress, Simon said. end of this year." Simon was interviewed on He did not say whether some NBC-TV's Meet the Press. predictions by non-governmen­One day after he met tal experts of an extra 2

law filed 
privately with Ford and re­percent increase in inflation to State Sen. Phillip Gutman, R­ceived President's reaffirma­take into account the impact of Fort Wayne, president of the In­tion of his status as top a $30 billion boost in fuel costs economic spokesman, Simon was included in the 7 percent
diana Senate, filed a bill last week 
said he stands fully behind the estimate.
that would exempt educational President and his program. The nation's jobless rate nowinstitutions from liability for in­There had been reports that stands at 7.1 percent andjury caused by the illegal sale of Simon was unhappy with Ford's inflation is approximately 12alcoholic beverages. 
anti-recession measures and per cent. The Consumer PriceThe bill was drafted with the had hinted he might leave the Index for December:, whichassistance of Phillip Faccenda, Cabinet if Ford's program measures the inflation levelgenreal counsel for the University seemed likely to produce a will be released by th~of Notre Dame. The bill reportedly federal budget deficit of more government this week. 
was endorsed by college officials 
throughout the state. 
Faccenda said the bill stemmed 
from a court case last year in 
which a property owner was held 
liable for damages caused by a 
youth who consumed alcohol on the 
property, even though the alcohol 
was consumed without the 
S.
knowledge or consent of the owner. The court ruling, Faccenda explained, could be used to apply 




the family inn 
to government or private agencies like universities. Faccenda said Notre Dame 
BARNABY'S IS NOW
officials are especially concerned because the campus is located only three miles from Michigan, where drinking is legal for 18-year olds. 

SERVING LUNCH! 
The proposed bill would serve as an amendment to existinR bills regulating the sale and distribution 
STARTING AT 11 A.M.
of alcoholic beverages. 
According to the proposed 
measure, no institution of higher 
education could be held liable for 
BARNABY'S SPECIAL 
injurysustained in violation of the 
law "unless that institution, or its 
agent knowin~ ly and intentionally 
$ J.00 OFF LARGE PIZZA
sold, bartered,exchanged,provided 
or furnished an alcoholic beverage 
$.50 OFF SMALL PIZZA
to a person that the institution or 
its agent must have knowll was a 
with this ad 

minor, habitual drunkard or 
intoxicated person." 
713 E. JEFFERSON 
The bill includes an emergency clause that would make the bill a 
288-.4981
law immediately upon it's 
Offer expires Jan. 31

passage. 
formed with the hope of ac-continued, "it may be in five years complishing more than the · though so it is important that we proposed zoning change. "It exists make the administration aware of for many reasons. We want to build the real need for a long term neighborhood consciousness, solution to the housing problem." strengthen communication Cardenas explained that he and channels between residents and other commissioners are still improve relations with the researching the Harter Heightsstudents that do live here," he problem. stated. "There is no real hostility "We would like to find an but there is no familiarity either alternative to the zoning change. and we would like to change that." The residents are afraid that the He added, "We feel that we are banks will deny mortgages on the basically a positive organization grounds that the neighborhood is hoping to build the quality of life in depressed. We would like to see if our neighborhood." there is some way to work with the 
Off-campus commissioner Stan banks to prevent this," he said. "If Cardenas reacted to the we cannot find an alternative we association's action, "This is much can work with what we've got." He better than we had anticipated. added, "There is room for im­The amendment is not retroactive provement in relations in the and so the number of houses neighborhood and I am confident available now will not be affected that we can work together to do that much. "However," he something about it." 

Church leaders challenge IBM sales to South Africa 
By DAVID E. ANDERSON Canon Burgess Carr, general UPI Religion Writer secretary of the All Africa Conference of Churches, a 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -The strong opponent of apartheid, American religious community endorsed the IBM resolution as is putting together a new "the minimum" action neces­assault on American corporate sary.involvement in South Africa. "South Africa makes use of 
As in the past, the battle­computer technology to imple­ground will be stockholders ment its notorious pass laws meetings held throughout the under which the movements of spring and early summer blacks are restricted to the months. demands of the system for their 
The key target in this year's labor," he said. drive for what church leaders "IBM computer technology is call "corporate responsibility" being used for an expansion of is the IBM corporation. this system to Asians and 
Some 14 churches and Roman Coloreds." Catholic orders, who hold In addition to the IBM nearly $9 million worth of IBM resolution, sixteen churches or stock, are co-filing a resolution Roman Catholic orders are with IBM, seeking to prevent variously JOmmg in filing the sales, leasing or services of stockholder resolutions with six its computers in the Republic of other corporations doing busi­South Africa. ness either in South Africa or 
According to the churches, Namibia -Phillips Petroleum, while the computers cannot 1 Standard Oil, Getty Oil, all of literally be called "arms," whom do business in Namibia, prohibited under the U. S. and ITT, Union Carbide and the embargo on arms shipments to Southern Company, who do the apartheid practicing coun­business in South Africa. try, they "are of real assist­Standard Oil and Getty are ance m i 1 i t a r i 1 y and being asked to withdraw strategically.'' completely from Namibia, 
The churches argue that the which is, according to the computers increase the govern­United Nations, illegally gov­ment's ability to control its erned by South Africa. Phillipscitizens and thus play a key is being asked to set up a role in enforcing the country's committee to review its in­white s rem volvement there. 
the observer Monday, January 20, 1975 
Takes counsel position 
Foschio leaves Notre Dame law school 
by MaureE-n Flynn Staff RE-porter 
Leslie G. Foschio, assistant dean and associate professor of the Law School, has taken a leave of ab­sence from Notre Dame to accept an appointment as corporation counsel for the city of Buffalo, New York. 
Dean Thomas Shaffer of the Law School describe<! Foschio's ap­pointment as a "fine opportuunity. He'll be the head of an office of twenty lawyers. Corporation eounsel is an important office in our government. so I can't be sad about that." 

As corporation counsel for the city of Buffalo, he and his staff will provide legal services to the city, its Board of Education, and Buffalo Sewer Authority. 
"He's just taken a leave of ab­sence," Shaffer continued, "so we hope he'll come back." 
Shaffer stated that no plans have been made to replace Foschio as assistant dean, although his duties as an associate professor have been taken over by other members of the Law School faculty. 
Regarding Foschio's work at Notre Dame over the past six years, Shaffer said, "He's been a real pillar of strength in every way. He's a fine teacher and a gifted administrator. He's been the very core of several programs in sponsored research." 
Foschio, who succeeds Anthony Manguso on January 21st, is in Buffalo for the week and could not be reached for comment. 
Foschio was appointed to his position as assistant dean and associate professor of law in 1969 and served from 1970 to 1972 as project director of a Notre Dame study of delays in the criminal justice system. 
He served as codirector of the Erie County criminal justice training program in the Buffalo police acaden'Y from 1966 to 1968. During the st 'lle period of time 
Zarb: gas prices will increase 
WASHINGTON mPil -Fed­<>ral Energy Administrator Frank Zarb said Sunday President Ford's new energy proposals may ultimately drive the price of gasoline up higher than the extra 10 cents a gallon previously discussed by ad­ministration officials. 
Zarb said the 10-cent figure represents only the average impact on all types of refined petroleum products expected to result from the $3 per barrel tariff increase Ford plans to impose on all imported crude oil. 
"The average price of pe­troleum product will go up 10 cents a gallon," Zarb said. 
"The average price of gaso­line may go up somewhat more, but that means .. . the products people need day-in and day-out and have little choice over, such as fuel oil, may <go up> a little less than 10 cents a gallon." 
Zarb did not say how high the price of gasoline might climb. 
Ford's proposal, which has met opposition in Congress, calls for crude oil tariffs to go up in $1 steps on Feb. 1, March 1 and April 1. Zarb said the immediate effect of this in­crease probably would be "about 4 or 411\! cents" per gallon. 
"By April we'll begin to feel the first impact," he predicted, saying it would take that long bcca use existing petroleum stockpiles "are quite high" and refiners will have to wait until present stocks are sold before passing higher prices along to consumers. 
Zarb was interviewed on CBS-TVs "Face the Nation." 
He was harshly critical of energy policies followed during the Nixon administration and before. 
"For the first time, after 15 years of neglect, we have a 
.~.--. 

FRAN SAYS LESSON THIS WEEK IS: CHA CHA AT NOTHE DAME LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
STUDENTS-MON. JAN. 20 7:00-9:00 
FACULTY-TUES. JAN. 21 7:30-9:30 $2 EACH LESSON LWAYS A BEG INNER LESSON. OVER 100 NOW IN CLASS COMI': ALONE, GROUP, DATE <'IIANGE PAHTNERS ALL EVENING 
WATCH FOR US SOON ON \\NDU-TV STUDENT PARTICIPATION SHOW "NOTRE DAME DANCERS" 

President who is willing to be in 10 years." make some very hard decisions Many congressmen' believe to change the course of a nation mandatory steps such as that was headed entirely in the gasoline rationing, rather than wrong direction and was the economic approach chosen prepared without realizing to by Ford, should be used to cut give up its own national down on U.S. energy consump­security and its own place in tion. Zarb said that was a the free world," Zarb said. mistaken notion. 
"He has put forward a very "Rationing was considered comprehensive program that very, very thoroughly (by the :"'ill get us to where we need to administration)," he said. 
There are products that will automatically answer your telephone, scratch your back, and cook a banquet in forty-seven seconds, but you won't enjoy any of them as much or as long as a stereo system from us. 

Absolutely nothing you can buy right 
now  is likely to give you  more  or  
longer-lasting  enjoyment  that  a  
really good stereo system.  

The system we're offering here is a really spectacular bargain, the best IOW-{!OSt stereo system we have ever heard. It's based on a pair of the new Advent-2 speakers, which are the latest from a company that specializes in making better and better speakers for less and less money. The Advent-2's go as far up the frequency scale as any speaker at any price, and their bass equals that of far more expensive speakers. <it's within an ace, in fact, of the absolute best to be found at any price.) If that seems hard to believe of such an inexpensive speaker, ask anyone who owns any Advent speaker whether it does what it's represented to do. 

To drive these new speakers, we've chosen the Kenwood KR-1400 receiver, which has all the clean, low-distortion power they need, plus the circuitry and features needed for really satisfying FM and AM reception without fuss or fuzz. 
The record player is the BSR 2310 automatic turntable, with a SHURE cartridge and diamond stylus. It will take good care of your records, and get the sound they have to offer for playing after playing. 
We offer you the complete system for $309.95. Come in and enjoy. 

1-'oschio lectured at the University of Buffalo's Law School, and was the senior assistant district at­torney for Erie County from 1966 to 1969. 
In 1968 he ran unsuccessfully as a Democratic-Liberal for the New York State Assembly in the 139th district. 
Foschio graduated from the University of Buffalo in 1962 with a BA degree cum laude, and from the university's Law School in 1965 with a JD degree cum laude. 
Foschio is 34 and has a wife, Virginia, and four children. 






1\udio S~ecialists 
415 North Michigan 234-5001 
Monday, January 20, 1975 the observer 
marshall tucker and good feeling 
a review by patrick small 
The term "country music" is certainly wide rangeing in nature. It encompasses bluegrass, ballads, rock and roll, New Riders' Country-rock referism and a whole slew of relatives. The Marshall Tucker Band, a member of the Capricorn (Allman Bros.) Record family from Sharpesville, So. Carolina, performs what is best described as good-timey country rock. In one sense they are similar to Poco in just evoking such an aura of good-feeling, although Poco does a lot of on-stage urging of audience par­ticipation while Marshall Tucker just plays and smiles. 
The group consists of five superior musicians and a better-than average vocalist. The band is anchored by the Caldwell brothers; Toy who writes most of the material and is certainly the bands major strength with his semi-spectacular lead lines and Tom who plays a forceful bass guitar and perhaps the most appealing m.c. a group could want. The vocals are handled by Doug Gray, who possesses a fine tenor that fits perfectly with the bands style. Other members include Jerry Eubank on flute and sax, George McKorkle on rhythmn guitar, and Paul Riddle on drums. 
The band played approximately 8 songs or 
so featuring a couple of new tunes worked in 
with some familiars. Most of the songs 
featured the strong country croon of Doug 
Gray and mostly showcased the strong 
guitar work of Toy Caldwell. Among the 
more interesting portions of the evening 
were Toy's stunning instrumental breaks on 
"In My Own Way" and "Twenty Four Hours 
At a Time." 
While the band performed well as a unit, 
the most satisfying part of the show were 
the duets between Toy and saxist-flautest 
Jerry Eubanks, particularly on "24 Hours 
At a Time," an original and artistic duet of 
guitar and sax. A more subtle duet featured 
the Caldwell Brothers blending in hard­
thrusting guitar-bass trade-offs with Tom. 
Drummer Paul Riddle must be com­
plimented on his sheer ability to keep up 
with the elder Caldwell's speedy leads. 
Perhaps the tune that best exemplifies 
what Marshall Tucker is as a band is there 
somewhat famous "Take the Highway." It 
consists of a catchy guitar riff implemented 
by Jerry Eubanks flute accompaniment and 
~olor. It is a joyful country tune which 
reflects their clean country approach. The 
band concluded with this number and en­
cored with a lengthly version of "Every Day 
I Sing The Blues" featuring just the rhythm 
section and some fire guitar melodies by 
Toy Caldwell and a competent vocal from 
Tom. 
The only misfire the group had all evening 
was their version of "Will the Circle Be 
Unbroken", an admitted fill-in tune which 
too many groups have been performing 
these past few years to allow Marshall 
Tucker a refreshing approach. The song 
was by no means a total loss, bouyed along, 
as suualby Toy's leads. 
casting a general verdict on this group is a bit difficult since their albums don't quite match up to at least this particular per­formance. While instrumentally superb, the thing that most impressed me about them was the ability of the band to encourage sheer enjoyment from their easy going lyrics and overall good-natured feel. Their stage prescence so impressed me in itself that I attempted to meet a few of the members, particularly Tom Caldwell, to confirm my belief that they must be really fine people. However, I was immediately recognized by lead singer Doug Gray as chief suspect in the rippoff of a bunch of the bands valuables. Luckily, I had been backstage for only a few minutes and got out while the getting was good. 
Be that as it may, if Marshall Tucker performs as well elsewhere as they did in South Bend they certainly won't starve although they lack the magical qualities of say, The Grateful Dead or the Allman Bros. ( (They will be appearing on the Midnight Special Friday at, surprisingly enough, one O'clock.) 
Little praise can be offered in regard to the performance of one Cosmic Cowboy Michael Murphy, who opened the show with a dragged-out five song set. The fault was not so much that the band was incompetent (which it wasn't) but that their musical direction was simply cluttered with tempos, volumes, and even styles changing far too often to produce any kind of satisfying ef­fect. Yet the major problem of the simple quality of songs. Note the refrain to "Good By Old Desert Rat", a tune that compares favorably to Tom T. Hall's "I Love...". 
Good-bye old desert rat you half-crazy old wildcat You really know where its at What life's all about 
As a crowning touch, he turned his popular "Geronimo's Cadillac" into a vehicle for instrumentals by his guitar player and keyboard players who just riffed around. Stop all that jazz 1 Perhaps this was an off-night but his talent is questionable in itself and if he insists that "Nobody's Gonna Tell Me How To Play My Music" I certainly won't bother. 



not since brautigan 
Not since Brautigan have I ever had as much fun reading as I have had with Donald Barthelme's outrageous stories. Sadness is the ironic title of this collection of sixteen stories ranging from the absurd to the hilarious. One can enjoy a cocktail party with King Kong as the guest of honor, or a.ttend a show with a cast of fools, sillies, s1mps, and boobies--with no less than a volcano for the finale. Visiting the Moon Rock Room at the Smithsonian in "A Film " Barthelme describes "peering into the moon rocks, you could see the future and past in color, and you could change them in any way you wished. The moon rocks gave off a slight hum, which cleaned your teeth, and a brilliant glow, which absolved you from sin." 
Yet, Barthelme does use gentle satire to drive biting comments on America. He conceives that "America has somehow got hold of the greed ethic," and it "has turned America into a tidy little hell." He con­tinues to make an excellent satirical attack on "The Rise of Capitalism" in five short 
by jim dolinsky 
pages. 
Mr. Barthelme asks a question in "The Genius" that surely must stand as a question of his method and the reader's acceptance of his position. "Is fantasy an adequate substitute for correct behavior?" Disregarding what a conception of "correct behavior" might be, the reader is certainly compelled, after reading Barthelme's stories, to realize that fantasy is a more than adequate means and a viable approach to storytelling and satire. 

The Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra came to St. Mary's yesterday where it played for a while. 
"First rehearse your song by rote, To each word a warbling note. !land in hand, with fairy grace, We will sing, and bless this place." 
(Titania> 
Mendelssohn's incidental music for A Midsummer Night's Dream, like all of Mendelssohn's music, never has a depressing note or motif. All is light, airy, refreshing. 
Mendelssohn composed this when he was 34, except for the Overture which was written out seventeen years before. Doesn't that make everyone feel inadequate? The 

a call to romantics 
a review by mary margaret sheeran 



OBSERVER FEATURES 
Scherzo is the most delightful -movement, and the Wedding March is almost un­comfortable to listen to, being as it has been so overplayed and overdone by generations of couples beaming radiantly down the aisle. Still, a symphony orchestra sounds a good deal better than an organ -for this selection, anyway. 
Prokoviev's Suite from "The Love for Three Oranges" is fun, pure fun, and filled with mocking motifs which are more amusing than harsh. 
As for Tchaikovski, his Symphony No. Four in F minor, Opus 36, was a complete change of outlook. Danger in performing Tchaikovsky's music lies in the easily ­succumbed to exaggeration of all those climaxes Oike in overdone versions of his 1812 Overture). What is needed is a sense of 
the dramatic, because this is what 
Tchaikovsky had an abundance of, rather 
than simply good musicianship. (The 
former may supply the latter, but the latter 
can never supply the former 1 ) 
As for the Fourth, it was begun in the 
spring of 1877 during a difficult period in 
Tchaikovsky's life when he was battling 
depression. He had decided to marry, even 
though his was not the disposition for which 
marriage would be encouraging. A few 
months later, thecomposerleft his bride and 
suffered a nervous collapse. 
In the Fourth, then, we are heralded by terrifying trumpets: "This is Fate... a power which constantly hangs over us like the sword of Damocles, and ceaselessly poisons the soul." The second movement is both longing and sorrowful, and the third begins with a pizzicato section with some "snatches of vulgar street song and military music". The final section is supposed to be refl€ctive of a "festival folk spirit", but there are several terrible moments in the score, and the coda is exhausting by itself. The awesome sound is unexpected in a composer whose works are usually labeled as "pretentious" or "a theatrical exhibition of Romantic emotion." 
This is music exactly suited to a lazy Sunday afternoon at St. Mary's. Afterwards comes dinner <or tea, if you will) and on­ward to Russian novels, matrices, or rhetoric. 
Yet the music stays with us, as does the performance of th orchestra. The dissonant warm-up, the romance of bow to violin and musician to instrument, all culminated under the leadership of one of the finest conductors we have yet experienced here, Oleg Kovalenko, whose energy was cen­tered exactly where it should have been. These places of focus are the heart and the wrist, for technique is a part of the imagination. 
So, as the sounds of this romantic music returns again and again throughout the evening to haunt us, we tire. We tire of being young and cynical, emotional and unfeeling, ignorant and brilliant, im­pressionable and tired of life. We want to enjoy life as we seem to remember doing in our not-so-long-ago pasts, without having to always be analyzing every constant second. We want to be young and to enjoy ourselves as we were meant to be and do. Quite a challenge in this academic asylum. But why not try? It is our right; it is our state of being. 
"If we shadows have offended, 
Think but this and all is mended­
That you have but slumbered here 
While these visions did appear. 
And this weak and idle theme, 
No more yielding than a dream." (Puck) 
The Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra 
came to St. Mary's yesterday where it 
played for a while ... and was perfect. 


the observer Monday, January 20, 1975
6 

'Fellows' enters collegiate drama f~sti val 
by Mary Egan Staff Rl"porter 
Christopher Cera so's new play, "Fellows", travelled to Ohio State University in Columbus to par­ticipate in the seventh American College Theater Festival as a finalist in the Great Lakes Regional Productions held January 9, 10, and 11. 
This is the first time the ND-SMC Theater has entered the festival, although it has been a member before. "We entered largely because we had a new play and felt it was important to give it ex­posure," explained Dr. Reginald Bain, chairman and associate professor of the ND-SMC Speech and Drama Department. 
"We are in a special category for a new play by a student," stated Bain. "There are five new plays left in the region which includes Indiana, Michigan and Ohio.', he added. The playwright, Chris Ceraso, graduated from ND last year. 

After a play enters the festival, Technical •Director Phil judges come to the college to view McElroy, Stage Manager the play. There they decide if it will Janet Wilson, Property Mistress be in the Bain. Kate W Production Assistant 

First Senior Ball 1neeting held 
hv Cole Finegan Staff Reporter 

The Senior Ball Committee held its first formal meeting Sunday night to discuss this year's ball. The Ball will take place m February or March with Chicago and South Bend as the two possible sites. 
Questionnaires have been sent to all Notre Dame and St. Mary's seniors in December soliciting their opinions on the site, price and type of the package, style of attire, etc. 
If the .event takes place in Chicago it will be overnight. The hotels under consideration are: The Marriot Inn-O'Hare, Pheasant Run, Hyatt Regency-O'Hare, the Sheraton Inn-O'Hare, and Sheraton Inn-Downtown 
The senior package would consist of transportation (by bus-­approximately $8 a couple), hotel accomodations, dinner, cocktails and nightclub. dance, hotel priviledges and possibly the theatre. 
Joe Henderlong, ball chairman and senior class secretary, commented on these choices. 

"We've considered the Pheasant Run because of its dinner-theatre. It's located in the hotel and would cut down on other transportation costs. The Hyatt Regency is very nice and we should be able to negotiate their prices down. 
"The Sheraton Inn-Downtown Chicago is on Michigan and Rush Streets. It would give people a chance to see Chicago. 
"We would like everybody to say whether they would rather be located by O'Hare, where activity would center primarily around their accommodations, or in downtown Chicago." 
The buses for Chicago would leave early on Saturday afternoon. 
"We would use buses because everyone would have to sign a waiver releasing the University of responsibility if we go by car," Henderlong said. 
If South Bend is the chosen spot, 
the senior package will include 
dinner. cocktails, possibly theatre, 
a formal dance possibly with an 
informal dance afterwards, and 
possibly a breakfast. 
The committee is considering 
the surrounding area's country 
clubs, Royal Inn, Ramada Inn 
<dinner and theater) and the 
Monogram Room at the ACC. 
Transportation would probably be 
by car in this rase. 
The figures on the questionaire are based on an attendance of 300 people and the highest priced dinner. "We are working to cut the cost 20-40 per cent. We want to buffer the cost by using special promotions at the Senior Club and some help from the Senior Class." 
"We would have liked to give the 
students the ball for free but the 
* 
MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES 2 FILMS 
BOOKSTORE
* 


LIVE FLOOR SHOW
* 

1316 SOUfH MICHIGAN STREET :\~~CALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATIONf 
:m~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:-:::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::{ 
Senior club and fund-raising projects that would have defrayed the cost barely broke even last semester. 
But we will ti y and keep the cost as low as possible. 
The committee is making itself available to all students who have questions. The members are: 
Marlene Zloza com­munications (6932)'; Vicki Allen, transportation (7991); Rita Murphy, meals (284­4151); Ginny Gibbs, tickets and place settings (284-4153); Ed Roberts, favors (616-699­7435); 
Phil Potter, florists (8202); 
Joe LaFlare, hotel ac­comodations (288-7565); Assistant Chairman Bob Spann, music (233-6247); Chairman Joe Henderlong, formals (234-lfl7:n 
Dan Duncheon and Electrician Pat Gleason went to the festival as technical assistants with the actors Bill McGinn and Dan Daily. AI Fiero, the scene designer, Ceraso, and Bain also attended the finals. 
Bain was responsible for the play's touring arrangements. "We were able to tour it without difficulty," said Bain. 
"There are no future plans for touring the play, except in terms with what happens with the festival," stated Bain. 
The Central Committee of the American College Theater Festival will invite up to ten productions from all the regions to the Kennedy Center in Washington 
D.C. in a two-week non­competitive festival, with all ex­penses paid. One of the 10 . plays 
will be a new play , added Bain. As a finalist, Ceraso's "Fellows" has a chance at this festival. 
The annual festival is open to all colleges in the U.S. and is sponsored by the American Theater Assi\Ciation. 


NICKlE'S 
BURGER & BEER SPECIAL 

from 11:30 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
NONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY 
1/2 POUND HAMBURGER AND A 12 OUNCE BEER FOR ONLY $1.00 
Uncle Willie's Fatal Gloss of Beer 
daily specials: 


Nton-Thurs 12-6 pm 
1 frosted mug 25r; 50¢ sandwiches: 
hamburgers cheeseburgers polish sausage kosher dogs 

Tues. nites pitcher nite 
pitcher $1.25 


Fri. &Sat. noon-6 pm 
hotdogs 10¢ 


These Specials Every Week 
._______________________________________. 

Monday, January 20, 1975 the observer 
leers splithigh-scoring CC games 
. by Bob Kissel  racing in unchecked on the CC goal. Collier faked Tiger goalie  
Lefty Smith may be wondering  Dan Griffin right and slid the puck  
whether he mistakenly took along  into the lower left corner at 10:24.  
the Irish baseball team to play the  Colorado was not finished as the  
'Colorado College Tigers in a two- Tigers scored again at 17: 14 of the  
game WCHA series in Colorado  opening stanza. The ND defense  
Springs. Colorado won Friday  turned the puck over in front of  
night 8-4, while Notre Dame  Peterson, which Holmes grabbed  
showed their own firepower,  and slid between the Irish  
winning 10-6 Saturday night.  goaltender's pads for the 3-1 period  
Friday night the opportunistic  end score.  
Tigers took advantage of frequent Irish defensive lapses to skate  :rtte second pe~io~ featur~d an Insh comeback, fisticuffs midway  
away with their 8-4 win.  through the period, and Colorado's  
"Prior to the game I was worried  winning goal. CC scored first for  
as to how our defense would react.  the 4-1 lead at 5:12 when Mike  
"Well they reacted very poorly,"  Staub (after being denied by  
commented Irish coach Lefty  Peterson on a super save) centered  
Smith.  to Holmes for the Tigers' fourth  
"I felt sorry for John Peterson,"  goal of the evening.  
Smith added. "You can put Ken  Notre Dame began to take  
Dryden in goal but if you give them  control after the Holmes goal. Pat  
the puck right in front , they're  Conroy started the charge at 5:56  
going to score."  on a low slapshot blast from the  
The first Colorado goal came at  top of the circle. Mark Olive was  
3:21 of the first period on a flipshot  awarded the assist on the goal,  
into an open ND net. Goaltender  bringing the Irish to within two.  
John Peterson had slid far out of  Geoff Collier, the freshman from  
the net to make the save on a Jim  Montreal, picked up his second  
Stebe shot, but Mike Haedrich  goal of the game bringing the  
controlled the rebound and scored.  game to 4-3. The score came on a  
CC took a 2-o lead when  slapshot from just inside the  
Colorado, not Notre Dame, con­ blueline which deflected off the leg  
trolled the rebound from a Dean  of Tiger Greg Smith at 7:10.  
MaGee shot to Peterson's left.  Clark Hamilton tied the game at  
Wayne Holmes got the rebound  the nine minute mark of the middle  
and centered back to MaGee, who  period, but unfortunately  
beat the sprawled Peterson at 9:05.  Hamilton's score was the final ND  
The Irish picked up their only  goal. Alex Pirus skated the puck  
goal of the initial session when  down his right wing, whirled at the  
frosh Kevin Nugent headmanned  circle and hit Hamilton flying in on  
the puck to center Geoff Collier,  Griffin on the left side. Hamilton's  


Extra Points 
(continued from page 8) 
desire, their agression and hustle that can spark the Irish into a torrid streaks of dazzling run and shoot basketball. But it is that same youth that can be responsible for the costly mistakes that lose ball games; 
exhibited by the 26, 27, and 26 turnovers against UCLA, Pitt and Marquette respectively. 
Undoubtedly, playing at the other teams home court has something to do with it. The Irish have only lost one game at home, and that against a more-talented Indiana team, now number one in the country. On the 
road, however, in such hostile locales as Pauley Pavillion or the Milwaukee Civic Arena, the presence of a frantic, screaming crowd surely had an unnerving effect on the players. 
Also, a team composed mainly of freshman and sophomores, like Notre Dame, is handicapped by the lack of playing time together, and a resulting lack of coordination and togetherness. Unlike a team like the Hoosiers, who have been playing with each other for several years and 
know each other well, the Irish are still learning and gaining the cohesion necessary for more skilled, tuned play. 
Coach Phelps is the first to admit the inexperience is the prime obstacle he and his players must overcome. He certainly is not lacking in in­dividual talent. It is to his credit that he has been patient and helpful in the face of those turnovers that can be so maddening to a coach. 
With his guidance, and more time, in a few years the Irish should be doing to young, inexperienced teams what other teams are doing to them now. 
FAT 




WALLY'S 
NOW OPEN 
* 
BEER 


* 
GIANT T.V.

* 
LIQUOR


* 
SANDWICHES 


2046 South Bend Avenue 
Pcross From Campus View Apartments 
score momentarily put the Irish and Brian Walsh (16:06). The last back in the ballgame. time ND hit double figures in a 
Mike Haedrich scored his hockey game was a 13-5 win over second goal of the evening on the Michigan State January 27, 1973 at power play for CC's 5-4. Haedrich home. deflected a Dave Hanson shot at Though most of the opening 
18:17 for the winning goal. period was played in front of 
The final period ~as all Colorado Colorado's Mio, the Tigers College as the Tigers turned a emerged from the first twenty tight 5-4 game at the end of the two minutes with a 2-o lead. Pat periods into an 8~ runaway. Dean Lawson scored a backhander at Magee <1:01), M1ke Staub 0:54), 10:06 for the opening goal. Jim ~nd Wa¥ne Hol'?es (12:10) s~ored Kronschna~l received .a centering m the fmal penod for the T1gers. pass from hnemate J1m Warner 
Saturday's 10-6 Irish victory was out front and picked his corner at at one point a 3-2 defensive battle, 11:51 for the 2-0 lead. after two periods. After the smoke But the Irish decided they had cleared in the final period, 11 goals enough of being on the short end of had been scored, and seven of the stick. Clark Hamilton trickled those escaped Tiger goalie Eddie the puck past Mio on a breakaway Mio. chance after receiving the ac-
The third period <or third inning) curate pass from winger Alex scores for Notre Dame went like Pirus. Hamilton's goal at 8:21 this: AlexPirus (2:15), AI Karsnia narrowed the gap to one goal. (5:?<J>, Dave Ho'_Ve (5:06),, Don Bi~l Guisti chalked up his first Fa1rholm (6:05-wlth an ass1st to varsity goal on a 12 foot slapshot ND goalie Len Moher), Alex Pirus that hit the upper right hand (9:27), Terrv Fairholm (14:05), corner. 
EUROPE BOUND 
IN '75? 


wouldn't you rather come with us? 
Last. ye~r over 200,000 studPnts summered in Europe. And the tr~velw~se flew on charter5 because it costs about HALF! Th1s yec.r a J -6 week ticket to London is $512.; 2. -3 weeker $597. And its $767. for over six week~ from New York. (That'~ what the airlines say now. Last year there were two unforcast increases:) 
Not, only do you ny with us at halff but you can just about ha:re your. choice of dates for4, S, "/, 8, 9, 10 week t.lur­
b1 
~tton d.ur1ng the summP.r. And all you have to do to qualify 1:: !'eserv7 your ~eat r1ow by ~;ending $100. riP-pozit, plu..; :uo. regtGtrat.ton fe~::. llnde1· r-ecet~tly new n. ::.;. Government ref'­ulatiOI~-; we mu:_:t submit all flight participant:.: name:. ar1rl full paymenr !~txty tiny:: before each flight. If ynu tak~ the .Tune l1-Augw:.t }') f'lip.;ht to Lc·ndon for example, dP.po:...it r·e­::;erve:~ your f'erH and April 15 you senrt the $199. bnlancP.. Ju.::;t. one pril"(' for a 11 flights whether you pick a w~ekf!nd departure ($1 r,. extr·:1 on the rc~~ular fare air) ine:) (tr peak 
sea.::>on ;.urC"harp.l'! date. 
So :;en~ for \liH' cumpl~'t" .~.-::hed11le, or to be ~;ure <;f yr,ur re­:>!H·:·,:lt 1{•1; Jl!!W 1 U::~ i 1 '.'• 11!' d~pO!..~j l for one (JJ' C•:n· 1 ltt ~ Wf:•.:Y. j y dt•p;jrt ur('. · lt't.m .ltmt t J, r···ur·h :;er•tf>T!tber·. .lu::t :;pee i ry ttl(· wf:"ek 

g!~~~~~I::.~:t:o;+:i:::: :':ilJ~r!~?b~:r;j;;;:~E?i:'~ij 
RFPUBI IC AI"' SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAl 
Boo -223 -5389 (TOLL FREE) 
Charter flying is the biggest bargain in air travel today 

. ' ~.o j; I 
... 
if one man ---brtgs''O little riDe love...~ 

THEN THAT MAN'S LIFE HAS MEANING 
The Crosiers are an Order of Brothers and Priests who see their ministry in light of today's world. If you are interested, call Ed Sellner, O.S.C. at 283-3189. 
Room 327, Holy Cross Hall 
Clark Hamilton gave the Irish their 3-2 lead at the end of forty minutes of action. Hamilton scored at 12:28 with the assists given to center Brian Walsh and right wing Pirus. 
Notre Dame hockey returns finally to the ACC after eight road games. The Irish host the North Dakota Fighting Sioux a team the Irish swept at Grand Forks during 
\November this Friday and , Saturday nlghts at 7:30. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
4 UCLA tickets needed, please call Dave, 234-5523. 
One or two housemates. Private bedrooms. Close to campus. Good neighborhood. Call 233-5925. 
Need 2 UCLA tickets. Please call Mark, 287-7981. 
Housemate wanted, private room 1 mile from campus. Fireplace. $60 per mo. Call 233-2352. 
Need 2 UCLA tix. Call Tom, 288· 2613. 
Wanted: used portable b & w tv. Call 272-4156. 
FOR SALE 
Calculator, brand new. Call Mary, 7953. 
NOTICES 
1 Used and new books for these classes: Am. Studies: 470, 474, 482. Col. Seminar: 180, 322, 421. 
1 English: 109, 180, 186, 303, 313, 322, 326, 328, 331, 362, 382, 384, 385, 386, 392B, 421 B, 482, 486, 490, 496, 505B, sosc. 579, 588, 664B, 674B, 675B. General Program: 180, 282, 342, 346, 382, 442, 444, 482. Govt: 180. 340, 342. Hist: 112, 114, 180, 322, 414. Hist. of Mex. ·Mod. Lang: 452, 459, 462, Phil: 101, 180,201,245, 275,351,426, 441. Theo: 122, 126, 222, 210. 302, 330, 346, 356, 402. 446. Pandora's Books, 602 N. St. Louis. 
EUROPEAN TRIP: LONDON, PARIS, MOSCOW, LENINGRAD, KIEV, ROME-$910. May 26.June 
11. Prof. Rubul is, Modern Language Dept. 
Bengal Boxing Club open 3:30·6:00 Monday through Friday, A.C.C. Boxing Room. 
Hash Brown Blues Band available for your dance or party. Call 272­9895 (evenings) for information. 
Money? Morissey Loan will lend up to $150 for 30 days. One day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune, daily, 11:15 to 12:15. 
Overseas Jobs: Australia, Europe, 
s. America, Africa. Students all professions and occupations. $700 to $3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing. Free in­formation. TRANSWORLD RESEARCH CO., Dept. F3, P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA. 94925. 
SMC & NO: for Pizza delivery, call The Roma, 234-3258. Monday through Saturday, 4:30p.m.. 1:30 a.m. 
Tony's Shoe Repair is conveniently located on the first floor of Badin Hall. See Tony for all your shoe repair needs . 
FOR RENT 
Top floor, $40 mo. Rides. Air cond., fireplace, kitchen. 233·1329. Days: 283·7579, Patty. 
503 West Jefferson duplex, 3·room furnished apartment. First floor. Gas heat furnished. 289·6307, 234· 0596. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: black billfold. Possibly near stadium. Keep money, return cards and papers. Call Joe, 234­8952. 
Lost: 1.0. bracelet inscribed "Jim." If found, call 1229. 
Lost: 1 cufflink, green with white face. Reward. Call 3783. 

Monday, January 20, 1975 

Warriors dump Irish, HC tonight 
by Greg Corgan Sports Editor 

MILWAUKEE-The show was different this year. Instead of the usual off-the-court antics expected in this annual meeting between the Notre Dame and Marquette basketball teams, Saturday's action was strictly on-the-court. 
The Digger and AI Show, which the contest has come to be labeled, m•ver made curtain call. The game itself upstaged both flam­boyant coaches and the 10,938 partisan Marquette fans were more than content to see their Warriors , centerstage in a 71-68 come-from -behind victory. 
Not that Marquette's AI McGuire was stricken with a sudden case of stage fright or Digger Phelps felt shy in front of a capacity crowd in Milwaukee's Civic Arena, but the gaml' was an exciting see-saw battle featuring some fine in­dividual performances and an Pffective "stop Adrian Dantley" defense by Marquette. 
Dantley, the nation's leading scorer, was held to 17 points as a result of a box-and-one defense box-and-one is a four man zone t>mployed by the Warriors in the with a single man remaining free first half and a double-teaming to follow, in this case Dantley, all man-to-man in the second. The over the court. 
Bill Brink =========~======================================================================================================================· 
Extra Points 

MILWAUKEE-We've seen it before. The Irish on the run, hustling under the boards, playing their game--taking charge, and taking the lead with tha• near-reckless agression that can be so devastating. 
Then something happens. The other team will put in a few buckets; the opposing crowd sends a thunderous roar throughout the stadium, the Irish players begin to miss shots that were going in before. That's when the near-recklessness becomes recklessness, the shots are forced, and 
the mistakes begin to come. 
The other team can sense it, feel that they have taken control of the game, and start to really take it to the young Notre Dame team. And the Irish can ·;ense it too; they can feel the crowd's roar swell up around them, swallowing them up; they change their game, start to think about catching up and consequently lose the tempo that had allowed them to dominate earlier. A travelling call, a bad pass, a forced shot--all part of a series of deadly mistakes that arise out of a frustrated, desperate attempt not to let it happen again. 
But it did happen again in ND's 71-68 loss to Marquette Saturday af­ternoon in Milwaukee. Just as it had happened against UCLA and Pitt­sburgh earlier in the season, when the Irish squandered commanding second half leads ( 16 against the Bruins, 15 against Pi ttl. And, as in the 
UCLA and Pitt games, the reason for the turnaround against the Warriors was clear-'youth, inexperience, and the mistakes and turnovers that accompany them. 
Once again the Irish had violated one of the cardinal rules of any sport-when you lose, make the other team beat you. Don't beat yourself. 
The season is half over and Notre Dame is 7-6, just about where everyone expected them to be ri5ht now considering their masochistic schedule. But for the lack of a few more years they very well could, and probably should have performed the unexpected. 
Pre-season experts labeled the Irish too small, predicting that they 
would get killed on the boards in games against taller teams. But their 
tough, aggressive inside play has allowed them to more than hold their own against the big teams. The problem is that they have trouble holding together. One does not get the sense that the Irish have been beaten by a much better, more talented team, but by an older, more experienced team. 
Against the Warriors, Notre Dame outrebounded their taller opponents 34-22. They outshot them with a .547 shooting percentage compared to Marquette's .468. They shot .741 in the second half, showing that when they got their shots, they made them. 
No, it wasn't more rebounds or better shooting that the Irish needed, it 
was composure and poise, qualities missing young Irish lineup. 
In the Marquette contest, Seniors accounted for 55 minutes of playing time, juniors for 0 minutes. The remaining 145 minutes was distributed among the seven sophomores and freshmen that have now become the real essence of the Notre Dame basketball team. It is their youthful 
(continued on page 7)





---· ..
~~ 

"I was surprised I scored this many," offered Adrian after the ball game. "I played against the box-and-one all through high school and I hate it. I get tired of guys face-guarding you constantly and boxing you out of the play completely, but I guess there isn't much I can do about it. In a case like that everybody's got to con­tribute." 
In the first half, everybody did, and the Irish took a 36-30 lead into the locker room at intermission. Sophomore forward Billy Paterno was the biggest donor scoring 12 of his team-high 20 points with Dantley and a semi-recuperated Dwight Clay adding seven. Clay had missed most of last week's practice with a strep throat. 
The Irish were behind until consecutive jumpers by Pete Crotty and Dave Batton and a free throw by Clay gave them a 25­22 lead with 4:20 left in the first half. The Warriors cut the lead to one on a basket by freshman guard Butch Lee, but Clay was fouled again and then McGuire in­terjected his only unprintable lines of the afternoon and was slapped with a technical. Dantley made the free throw and baskets by Paterno and Crotty gave the Irish an eight point lead, but McGuire's theatrics disturbed ND's momentum and the Warriors were able to narrow the gap to six at half. 
"We put ourselves in a situation where Dantley wasn't going to get his 25 or 30 shots," explained Phelps. "We had to rely on our other people and in the first half it worked." 
In the second it didn't. In the first half Notre Dame had 13 turnovers to nine for Marquette, but in the second, the Irish again turned the ball over 13 times while 

Lacrosse meeting 
All members of the Notre Dame Lacrosse team are asked to attend a meeting this afternoon at 4:30 at gate 2 of the Athletic and Con­vocation Center. President Rich Caron will be the guest speaker. 
the Warriors were never headed. 
The Irish closed the gap to 67-64 with 39 seconds left after Dantley hit two free throws and freshman Jeff Carpenter stole the in-bounds pass and Paterno hit a jumper. But then Paterno fouled out grabbing Tatum intentionally and the junior forward sank both foul tries. Dantley answered with a hook with 16 seconds left, but Crotty fouled Walton who made both of his free throws, upping the margin to 71-66 with five seconds to play, and Carpenter scored a meaningless bucket at the buzzer. 
"We're just not playing the kind of defense we like to play," said Digger. "We're young and we just got to keep plugging away, but today we had no offensive rebounding, no running game whatsoever and again, too many turnovers. I thought we did a good job against their box-and-Qne in the first half and their triangle and two in the second. We just have to get the confidence that we can win." 

Asked about his sub-par scoring performance Dantley said, "I the Warriors lost it but four times. know that I probably won't wind up 
the leading scorer in the countryAlso, Marquette forwards Bo because once you get that title allEllis and Earl Tatum got hot and you're going to see is the box-and­junior guard Lloyd Walton, who one. I guess next time I'll just eat ashared scoring honors with Ellis raw onion before the game andand Paterno netting 20, was all keep breathing in their faces." 
over the court. 

It'll be good to get home," said The Irish had upped their lead to Adrian. "We still have a good shot 
seven, 52-45, with 11:36 left to play ., at an NCAA bid and I hope the 
when the Warriors reeled off nine student body can pick us up." 
straight points. The Irish tied the Irish fans will get that chance for 
contest twice more, but a jumper the first time in eight games 
by Jerry Homan, a free throw by tonight when Notre Dame takes on 
Tatum and a layup by Ellis put ..a surprising Holy Cross squad at 
Marquette up by five, 61-56, and 1he ACC. Tipoff is at 8: 10. 

N.O. & ST. MARY TAEKWONDO 

~~t.._ . 
Dong Sik Kim (Master Instructor) 6th degree nlack belt (T.K.D.) 4th degree black belt (Hapkido) 
WELCOME! 
All old and new members are to register this Monday and Wednesday at Wrestling Gym at 
A.C.C. from 6 P.M. to 8 P.M. 
club T-shirt one free class international I.D. 
Contact Andy (283-3313) Jafar (234-3883) 



