Chilean exiles charge Regime attempting to discredit Church 


By Cathy Cannon 
Staff Reporter 
~he arrest and imJ?risonment of two Holy Cross Pnests and t~e expu~s10n of another Holy Cross P.riest and three sisters IS an attempt by the Chilean Gover~ment to discredit the Cat~olic Church and The Co.mmittee for Peace, accordmg to three of the exiles. . . . . 
Fr. Phthp Devhn and Sister~ Helen Nelson and Pa~la Ar.mstrong to the School Ststers of Notre D~me arnved m South .Bend l~st week after the Umted States E~bassy m Santiago secured safe conduct passes whtch allowed them to leave the country. 
The three were s~u~ht by the Chilean g?vernf!lent on charges of provtdmg. refuge and medtcal a1d to member~ of ~he revolutionary Left Movement. 
Devlm said as many as 90 percent of the may be opposed to te government. 
Nelson said, "these events are being used to discredit the church, because it is the only strongopposition to the government." 
"Every other area of national life has some gov.ernment agency controllifolg i~," Devlin ex­plamed.. "The task of thes~ off1ces ~s n<?t to organize but to dtsrupt all commumty orgamzationsand keep them from functioning, Devlin said, "At one time any group of more than five people having anything other than a work meeting had to have permission " he added. ' 
'fhe Committee for Peace was organized by the World Council of Churches about a month after the Coup, Devlin said. 
"The government has been trying to get rid of the committee for months, Devlin said. "The fact that it exists is a condemnation of the system. The govern­ment should be doing the things the committee is doing," Devlin explianed. He added,"The govern­ment-owned Chilina press always tries to slant the news so that it sounds like the government is doing these things."
The three religious said they aided two of Chile's most wanted activist and their wives for humanitarian not political motives. The activist were Andres Pascal, nephew of former President Salvadore Allende who died two years ago in the military take over, and Nelson Gutierrez. The two men were helped on the condition they down their arms Devlin and the two sisters urged them to seek asylum. 
Devlin defended his decision to persuade Pascal to seek political asylum as a non-POlitical act. 



by Mary Pat Tarpy Staff Reporter 
James Corbet, retired professor of History, will lead an organization for retired Notre Dame faculty members, their wives and widows. 
The organization was formed last night at a meeting called by the Faculty Senate Committee on RetiredFaculty. Corbet stated, "I think it's good that we have a center to work from. A professor leaves the university at retirement and that's the end of it unless you have a problem. I'm glad we initiated the organization." 
The organization will tentatively meet in late January with sub­sequent meetings four times per year; once in early October, late November, early March and late April. 
The suggestion to organize arose from a discussion betweeen retired 

ALL A PART OF THE JOB? Twice, earlier this year, President Ford has allegedly had his life threatened. Now Ronald Reagan, minutes after announcing his condidacy for the Presidential Office, has been in­timidated by a blank-firing jokester. Joke or not, the incident brings back memories of leaders assassinated in days past. The twelfth anniversary of one of them --John F. Kennedy --fa lis this Saturday. 
Under ex-History prof 
Retired profs to organize 
faculty members and the Faculty Senate Committee, on the Report of the Faculty Senate Committee on Retired Faculty 
The report itself stems from a survey of the 81 known retired faculty members on their morale . mcome_ and economic well-being,, professiOnal and non-professional activities, and unfulfilled aspirations. From the results
' 
recommendations were made to the faculty and administration and are expected to be brought before the officers of the university according to Dane hey. ' 
The recommendations aimed at the faculty were first to provide that two members of the Faculty Senate should be members of the retired faculty elected by the retired faculty. Secondly, faculty members approaching retirement should take full advantage of counseling services available to them in the Personnel Office. 
MIAMI AP -Ronald Reagan announced his Republican presidential candidacy Thursday, and then encountered a man wielding a toy pistol as he shook hands after the first rally of his campaign. 
Secret Service agents grabbed the man, and hustled Reagan away, apparently unshaken. 
The Secret Service identified the man as Michael Lance Carvin, 20, of Porn pany, Fla. Agents had been guarding Reagan for only half a day when the incident occurred at a motel near the Miami Airport. 
The man was questioned by agents at the hotel, then taken to 
Finally, faculty should consider making additional, voluntary contributions to the University Pension fund as a way of in­creasing retirement income. 
The recommendations to the administration covered matters such as keeping each faculty member on the university mailing list even after retirement, in­cluding the Notre Dame Report, the Notre Dame Weekly Calendar, the Notre Dame Magazine, Faculty Manual and revision, and applications for faculty football tickets. 
The university should allow the maximum possible opportunity for part time teaching and guarantee that each person from the Notre Dame faculty will receive an annual income of not less than $7,000 including social security and· that figure adjusted for cost of living increases each successive year. 
At the meeting Danehey noted, "The chairman of the faculty Senate got a letter from Father Burtchaellwhich was a very warm expression of approval for this report. He commented that the 
recommendations were sound and he will personally try to get through every one of the recom­mendations." 
Discussion during the meeting also centered on the retirement policy at the university. Corbet felt the point of retirement age was of psychological importance. He emphasized the importance of a specific policy concerning the issue. "During the course of a teacher's last year, he should be offered the chance to teach one course for at le~st two years. 
Today's issue of the OBSERVER is the last before Thanksgiving. Regular publication resumes on December 2nd 
Secret Service headquarters in downtown Miami, a Reagan spokesman said. 
A Secret Service spokesman in Washington said the weapon 
.vas  a  starter's  pistol,  which  
would  fire  only blank  car­ 
tridges.  The  man  who pulled it  

on Reagan was taken into cus­tody by Secret Service agents.. 
Carvin was charged with in­timidating a presidential can­didate and with assaulting a federal officer, according to Bob Newbrand, special agent in charge of the local Secret Service office. 
Maximurn penalties are one year in prison and a $1,000 fine on the intimidation cha11ge and three years in prison and $5,000 fine on the assault of a federal officer charge. 
Newbrand said Carvin was believed to have made a threatening telephone call last week from a Pompano Beach pay booth. He said the Secret Service office in Denver received a call Nov. 10 from a person identifying himself only as Michael. Newbrand said the caller threatened to harm Reagan, President Ford and Vice-President Nelson Rockefeller unless Lynette "Squeaky" Fromme was freed. 
Miss Fromm, charged with attempting to kill President Ford in Sacramento last Sept. 5, is on trial in California. Newbrand said he believedcarvimntended to harm Reagan. "He's a big kid-6 feet, 180 pounds. You figure it out," he said. 
Reagan announced his White House candidacy in Washing­ton, then flew to Miami aboard a chartered jetliner to begin a two-day, five-state campaign swing. . 
The Miami incident occurred as Reagan shook hands after addressing about 400 supporters at a_ motel near the airport. 
Reagan did not appear par­ticularly shaken by the in­cident. He was smiling as se­curity men escorted him to a room in the motel. 
Earlier, in Washin&ton, Rea­gan formally announced his challenge to President Ford and a Washington "buddy sys­tem" which he blamed for ma­jor national problems. 
He said he wouldn't be sur­prised if other Republicans en­tered the presidential race "now that someone has broken the ice." 
Reagan flew to Miami after formally announcing his White House candidacy in Washington ­the city where, he said, many of th­e nation's woes are · being generated by a federal govern­ment that is too ' big but "powerless to solve problems anymore." 
That was the theme of his Miami speech to about 400 supporters in the ballroom of the Ramada lrfu. 
He had just finished and was shaking hands when the youth pulled what appeared to be a weapon. The assailant was thrown to the floor by security men and bystanders. 
Reagan was pulled away from the assailant by Secret Service agents and, in the process, dragged to the 1ground memen­tarily, but he was smiling and did not appear shaken when agents led himupstairs to a motel room. 
"I feel fine," he said later at a news conference. " ...I just thought someone had fallen down. It seems the man pulled out a toy gun." 
"I hope it doesn't happen again,'' said Reagan's wife, Nancy. "I think you always have to keep it in the back of your mind." 
Reagan was receiving Secret Service protection as a presidential candidate under a security system that was put into effect after President Ford was confronted twice by gun-wielding women, in Sacramento and San Francisco, during September. 
As he began the active phase of his challenge to President Ford, Reagan said he will carry his conservative message "as far and as wide as I can," seeking to woo the 40 percent of the electorate "now disenchanted with both parties." 

-~ -~··~~--~ 
an campus taday 
friday, november 21, 1975  
9:30am  -workshop "recreation programs for economically disadvantaged" little theater.  the  
12:15 pm 12:15 pm 3:30 pm s: 15 pm 5:15 pm  -lecture "cultural autocrltlclsm: the process and the role of the humanities", dr. robert caponlgre, n.d., library aud. -travelogue "rio (there's only one!)", by harald esch, rm 278 galvin aud. -philosophy perspectives "freudian theory and the possibility of Irrationality", by arthur dant, library aud. -mass and dinner, bulla shed ---i!Vensong "vespers" log chapel  

16. 8, 10, 12 P"1·-:-film "animal crackers" knights of columbus bldg. $1 
6:30,8:15, 10pm;-cartoons "road runner, pink panther, bugs bunny, the Inspector" sponsored by flanner hall, haggar hall $.75 
7:30 pm -hockey "denver at notre dame" ace fieldhouse 8, 10 pm -film "the parallax view" engineering aud. $1 
9-1 arr :-smc coffeehouse "brady boys, 9; bill Shaughnessy, 10; jim dwyer, 11; rich spangler, 12;" snack shop 
10-1 am -nau "don richards, 10; john stelnman, 11; marla costello and bill carey, 12" Iafortune basement. 
saturday, november 22, 1975 
6, 8, 10, 12 pm -film "animal crackers" knights of columbus bldg. $1 ·7:30pm -football "notre dame at miami'_' 
7:30 pm -hockey "denver at notre dame" ace fieldhouse 8, 10 pm -film "the parallax view" engineering aud. $1 
10-1 am -nan "dave shaheen, 10; mary gumble, 11; rick .;pangler, 12" Iafortune basement. 
sunday, november 23, 1975 _ 
12:30 pm -notre dame glee club, ~hannel 16 WNDU-TV 4 pm -concert "notre dame orchestra" washington hall r 
6, 8, 10, 12 p.m. -1ilm,"anlmal crackers", knights of columbus bldg., $1. 7:30pm -basketball exhibition "annual charity Intra-squad game" ace, donation: $.50 8 pm t-lecture "rep. don rlegle from michigan" library aud. 
monday, november 24, 1975 
7 pm -chess tournament "n.d. chess club vs. south bend chess club" rm 227 math and computer center 
*The Observer
Engineers to buy 
Night Editor: Dan Sanchez Assistant Night Editor: Jim
lab equipment 
Stevens, Mary Janca Layout Staff: Franz Lan­
Notre Dame's College of zinger, Jack D'Aurora,Engineering will purchase Eileen Mackrell, Smi1h rquipment for the Vibrations and Day Edi·tor: Maureen FlynnAcoustics Laboratory with a Copy Reader: Fred Herbst, $1,000 gift from the Trane Company , Mary Egan of LaCrosse, Wisconsin. Dr. Editorials: Pat Hanifan, Jim Raymond M. Brach, left, associate Eder 
professor of aerospace and . Features: Val Zurblis, Tom 
O'Neil
mechanical engineering and 
Sports: Tt.m Kruczek, Bob
director of the laboratory, recently 
Brink
accepted the check from ~Clayton 
Typists: Mel Celeste, Tessie
K. Zurfluh, Trane's recruitment 
Clemens, Bill Heyelman,
manager. Representing the 
H1ward Halle, Tom'O'Neil
Department of Aerospace ad 
Compugraphic, Chip Spina
Mechanical Engineering was Dr. 
Night Controller: Martha1
James E. Houghton, assistant 
Fanning, Chris Smith
chairman. 

shoe with the heel lower than 
the toe, the shoe so unique it's patented, 
now comes in a whole new range of styles. 
Soft, strong, light, lined, puffed, quilted, 

Earth® brand shoes. 
Tall, short, leather, 
suede, fancy, sporty, 
hiking, dancing, 
walking Earth® 
brand shoes. 
Chicago/Lincoln Park: 2112 N. Oark St. Free parking at 2036 N. Clark St. (312) 528-SSlO 
Chicago/Hyde Park: 5210 S. Harper Court Off-street parking in city lot. (312) 3644088. 
·-, _. c;Jpen 7_f!ays: .JtJas.tf!~harge_{ir~~t(!Q;,·,\·;\',\'.\'.'.i~.zf:t~;. { ~.,_ · · GiftCerti/kares >4vallabl~.· .• • • • • • • • ·' • • H 
• 
In nickname poll 
'None of the above' wins 
by Karen Hinks There was no specific winner, money will be allocated towards Staff Reporter therefore, the committee felt it the new recreational facility soon would be unable to award the prize to be constucted on the St. Mary's
Due to the increase of women to anyone. Coyne said that the campus," Coyne said .
participants in various intermural committee was reluctant to absorb Coyne said the committee wasand varsity sports, St. Mary's the $25 prize money back into the extremely careful in screening and 
students decided that it would be 
Student Government funds . "The (continued on page 10)necessary to choose a nickname adequately _representing the college. 
A contest sponsored by Student Government, was held in the St. Mary's dining'hall at dinner on Nov. lOth and 11th. Cathleen Coyne, student development com­missioner said that over forty-five per cent of the student body par­ticipated in the survey. In this contest students submitted names they felt would be appropriate. 
The results from the student body were overwhelmingly in favor of "none of the above," Coyne said. The choices offered in the survey were: The Bells, The Belles, the Rascals, The Bandits, the Lakers and the SMICKS. 
According to Coyne of the 45 per cent of the votes cast, half were in favor of "none of the above." Coyne said that the "Belles" was I -----------------------~ 
most favored by those who made a !SOUND MASTERS -BONUS BUY! 
choice , the "SMICKS" carne in second. Coyne added all others received minimum choice . 
The survey was then negated. I SAVE OVER $100.00 I 
I I
WNDU to host I BUY ONE FOR$119.95 I 
I I
Glee Club Sun. 
I BUY THE SECOND I 
The Notre Dame Glee Club wih be featured at 12:30 p.m. Sunday, I I Nov. 23 on WNDU-TV (Channel I FOR $10.00 I 16). Their repetoire includes "The 
I I
Notre Dame Fight Song" and 
I Yes, the EVS-14B is a real per-I
·•Irish Backs" among other glee club favorites. I .· for,.{er, not just a so-so system. I St. Mary's senior, Debbie Beck 
II Electr,o:W~ol·ce Visit Sound masters soon for a II
has directed and produced this I' '•V'-demonstration and let us prove 
porgram in conjunction with her Television Practice II class. 
I EVS·148 :nwi:~~ :~; :::e::e;lf:::~~ ; I 
1 drivers provide response from 40 1ERRATUM 1 to 18,000 kz aud worl well from 10 to I I I 60 watts RMS. At these prices, an I
The schedule in yesterday's 
I • -o exceptional buy. I
Observer of hours for off-campus students to pick up telephone I "O<Il~ I directories contained several I 5 ~ t Town & Country I errors. The correct schedule is as I ~ :g ~ Shopping Mall I follows: Today from noon to 1 p.m. I E i I and 2: 15 to 4 p.m., Monday from 20 noon to) p.m. and 2:15 to 4 p.m., I~Rt· -421 N. Hickory Rd. and I Tuesday from 11 :30 a.m. until 2 Scottsdale Mall, S. Bend,
I I 
p.m. Directories will be available 1 Concord Mall, Elkhart I in the LaFortune ballroom. 
·-~---------------------~ 
LOST OUR LEASE! 
Going Out of Business 
at 2004 Ironwood Circle 
Artificial Arrangements 
CHRISTMAS-FAll-SPRING 
PLANTS 25% OFF 
HANGING PLANTS 1J2 PRICE 
CHRISTMAS GIFT ITEMS 
• 
lbcra• 112 Price 

• 
Pottery 112 Price 


• WICKER BASKETS •WDLES 
GIFT ITEMS 
60%-70%-80% OFF 
Gin BOXES ALL SIZES 
ladilu Glass Gift Wrappiar lows Rer. $3.00
STACI FOR Sl.OO 
90' Eacll baH price $1.50 
Everythin& must go OPfl 1:11 • J .... ........ Sit.
fo~~ 
by November 26 1975 
5.tu.ll­-All SaJes Are Final­
4 .t -~ '_; .j'~.: r'ii-·_)}J,.._,_;... _a..:...;,.~,} ..~ 4 OJ.;,• 

~-~--------------------~-­
~Friday, November 21, 1975 the observer 
Ill-effects of overcrowding cited 
by Christie Herlihy Staff Reporter 
Difficulties in securing business electives and the cut-throat competiton in the Accounting Department are two of the major problems resulting from over­crowding in the business school, according to business students. 
The Accounting Department, which contains 45 per cent of the business majors, is "the dynasty" of the business school, one student stated, and the swollen department fosters grade pressure . 
"There is a real pressure as far as grades go," a sophomore major said. "I definitely feel the department is trying to weed us out through examinations like that last one (Prof. Erwin) Aranowski gave us." 
Senior Accounting majors said the increase in grade pressure is a recent development in the department. 
"Although I didn't feel the cut­throat pressure when I was a sophomore," Christine Gallagher said, "I have talked with sophomores and juniors and I feel that the department is trying to cut them out. Lots of students drop accounting because of the difficult tests." 
Assistant Dean Vincent Raymond termed the charges that tests are ·being used in an elimination process as "a rumor." "The Accounting Department is actually encouraging students into the department," Raymond said. "The department attempts to give them a sample of the work they will have to be able to do as up­perclassmen and as employees of a firm." 
Raymond noted that few students complained that the test material was not covered in lec­ture or by the text. Test difficulty is impossible to measure over they years,' he added. 
Cut-throat pressure does exist within the department, Raymond conceded, but he likened the pressure to the pre-med situation. "There are many recruiters picking over the supply of students with 3.4, 3.5 and 3.6 averages. There is a definite supply of majors in excess of demand." 
Only the accounting majors complained of excessively large classes, many students citing 50 to 60 students as an average class size. ''There just is not enough time to ask questions with 60 people in the class." said Jean Flannigan, a senior. "I have had to go in frequently and talk with my professors about questions concerning the lecture material." 
Gallagher agreed, "I would like smaller classes because when they are personalized you are able to get more out of them," she said. 
Raymond disagreed that a smaller class size improves class quality. "It depends on the teacher. We have some teachers comfortable with 50 students and others who feel uncomfortable. The essential thing is to match a professor's style with the style of learning best suitable to the student." 
Class enrollment statistics do not reflect the "learning-teaching process," he said. 
Large classes are tolerable for many finance, marketing, and management majors, students said. 
"The classes are not extremely large," said Sue Schoenherr, a senior marketing major. "I have twenty or so in some of my classes. 
My largest one is in Arts and Letters." 
Her business classes were not so large as to curtail questions, she added. 
"The average class is between 50 and 60 people," said Michael Ricci, a finance major. "Considering the size I think the teacher does a good job for my needs.". 
Several students specified that · the real problem of overcrowding was no.t large classes, but the fact 
As program declines 
CAP downplaying 'elitist' title 
by Mary Reher ~t>nior Staff Reporter 
Originally intended to facilitate the progress of the brighter students, the Committee on Academic Progress (CAP) has gained an "elitist" reputation in recent years, according to Sociology and Anthropology Professor Richard LaManna. 
As one of these professors recommending students for the program, he stated, "The program is trying to downplay this name now by admitting students not strictly by intelligence in academic curriculum. Students who are involved in outside ac­tivities are also taken \nto con­sideration," he noted. 'CAP is intended to fit the creative, imaginative student." 
Chairman of the program, Prof. Gerhart Niemeyer stated, "The CAP program has lately lost some of its attractiveness and usefulness since the University's curriculum has become more flexible. For example, formerly three theology and philosophy courses were required by the University. At that time CAP would help students select the courses better suited to their needs," he noted. Now, however, only two courses of each department are required so CAP does not really benefit the student in this respect as much as before, he observed, 
Another reason Niemeyer cited for the decline of CAP was the value of individual counselors when the program first began in 1961. Now, however, some 
departments themselves assign 
individual advisors to students, he 
said. 
"Counseling is no longer the prime purpose of CAP as it once was. Therefore, we want to add something more innovative to the program to make it more valuable in light of the University changes. As of yet I do not know what it will be. But it will appear on the agenda at the next meeting of the CAP steering committee in December," he stated. 
La Manna commented, "Sometimes the . program func­tions, and other times it does not. Student succeed in getting into courses in high demand," he said. "However, some studentsuse it to get into popular courses which are not necessarily the best." 
Considering the possibility of CAP students getting into courses and thereby closing the classes out to majors, LaManna said, "I have never known it to happen in lower level classes such as those num­bered 300 but CAP members do not belong in those classes anyway. I do not consider them to be that challenging," he· stated. 
Advisors do not recieve 4>-;uf­ficient feedback from stw.=:nts, LaManna observed. "Often ~'ley just come in at registratio r.. for cards to get into classes and do not sit down to talk. Writing a yearly biography is an artificial way to force then to communicate with their advisors," he said. 
Niemeyer said that for the first time, CAP students now will receive student advisors as well as tacUlty counselors. Juniors 
#*****************•**~********\
i MAKE THIS : 
: CHRISTMAS A ·i
! HTENNIS XMAS'~ ! 
: GIVE THAT SOMEONE SPECIAL * 
·: A "SPORTING''GIFT THAT WILL # , 
*"SERVE LOVE" ALL YEAR 'ROUND* 
! ~ SPENI'S ! * 
! PRO SHOP : 
-: 321 SOUTH NOTRE DAME ~ 
* SOUTH BEND 233-8712 t 
~******************************** 
and seniors selected by the CAP faculty advisors counsel freshman and sophomores about the University in general. Faculty advisors will continue to help students plan their curriculum, he said. 
"We try to avoid structuring CAP into an honors program since 
such programs do not work well at other colleges," according to Niemeyer. "Honors courses restricted to honors students are bad because they tend to segregate students. Also, honors courses are not necessarily better classes and may result in the death of their quality," he stated. 
that there were few course sec­
tions-which makes getting the 
eight required electives among the 
departments difficult. 
Julie Dunn, a junior marketing 
major reported to Hayes-Healy an 
hour before the 8 a.m. registration. 
"Dean Raymond hinted that the 
finance elective cards would run 
out in the first couple of minutes so 
he said he would reserve a couple 
of cards for the junior marketing 
majors. I got one of the last card­
s," Dunn said.. 
"I really feel sorry for those non­business major who try to get into a business course," she added. 
Lynn Mertensotto, also a junior marketing major agreed that the problem was not large classes but in fulfilling electives. "We had a choice of three courses which would fulfill the elective requirement. After the depart­
ment's own majors picked their 
courses there was only one 
alternative open-JBusiness Con­
ditions and Analysis. We're 
supposed to elect this?" 
One business student questioned 
whether the department was really \Understaffed as professors John Houck and Robert Williamson contended in a previous Observer 
article. 
"You wonder where the teachers are. Why isn't the current staff teaching more sections? Some professors are listed as teaching only one or two courses in the department," the student said. 
Closed out of finance courses he needed to fulfill an electivl! requirement, Joe Pszeracki, a senior management major 
(continued on page 8)
f------JOiiOrs---, ' CARRY-OUT i I ' 
:~I WE DELIVER! : 
: ~/'!' : : GENUINE EAST COAST THICK ~ t CRUST STYLE PIZZA (NEVER A t 
.t t
t TASTE OF BISCUIT DOUGH) t t t : GUARANTEED! : 
t HOT TO YOUR DOOR EVERY TIME f 
t t 
f CALL US AT 232-7919 : 
..._. ________~,.·----­

Friday & Saturday 8-10 
November 21 & 22 
,ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM ADMfSSION $1 
plush
George Graves 
now appearing in the Mail Pouch Hoom 
THE NEW BONNEVILLE SHOW BAND 
(This weekend -no cover 
charge with student l.D.) HAPPY _HOUR Mon.-Fri. 4:00-7:30 .LADIES' NIGHt Tues. 8:00-10:00 MEN'S NIGHT Thurs. 8:00-10:00­
EVERY MONDAY·REDUCED PRICES ON BEER AND BAR DRINKS 
Appropriate attire required for admittance 
PIZZAS, SNACKS ~ -S~ANDWICliES ..­SERVED-ANYTIME 
·7 ft. TV screen, for Monday night football. 
--------------------------------------------~ 
Ad1ninistration: break is needed 
by Kathy Mills Senior Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame :Students could really use a break right now, accordin~ to several members of the University administration. 
"They absolutely need a break," stated Fr. Terrance Lally, assistant vice-president for student affairs. 
Lally explained, "The academic pressure has been awful this year. It's been very intense. I've only talked to one nrofessor who doesn't think there's been a noticeable chang~ in the students this year." 
He said the hall staffs had complained of more depression in the students and of more fights between roommates this semester. 
":The students are too quiet," he continued. "It's almost as if they don't have the energy levels to rant and rave." Lally attributed this quietness to tiredness, depression and irritability. 
He also predicted many students will leave campus before the break is scheduled to begin. 
Lally said he did not know whether the Thanksgiving break will be long enough to relieve the tension. "I suspect we'll see some post-vacation depression if it isn't long enough or if the students try to pack a whole lot of living into the short space," he stated. "But right now we'll thank our lucky stars for this break '' 
Dr. Emil T. Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, said the freshmen are "more than ready" for the Thanksgiving break. 
"This has been too long for the freshmen to go without a break," Hofman noted. "They're very tired." 
He also pointed out many more freshmen are leaving campus for Thanksgiving break this year than last year. ''Almost all of them are leaving campus," he said. "There are very few remaining." 
Dr.Charles J. Arens, director of the Psychological Services Center, agreed students need a break from school now. "The academic pressure has been building up," he explained. 
Arens also said students seem 
more anxious now than they did at 
this time last year and are more 
serious this year. 
He noted there is a mid-semester 
break scheduled for second 
semester. "If a <mid-semester) 
break is necessary second 
semester, why not first 
semester'?" he added. "The 
academic pressures are no greater 
in one semester than in the other 
There's no logic in it." 
Next year 
you could be on scholarship. 
An Air Force ROTC 2-year scholarship. Which not only pays your tuition, but also gives you $100 a month al· lowance. And picks up the tab for your books and lab fees, as well. 
And after college, you'll re­ceive a commission in the Air Force ...go on to further, spe­cialized training... and get started as an Air Force officer. There'll be travel, responsibil· ity, and a lot of other benefits. 
But it all starts right here ...in college ...in the Air Force ROTC. Things will look up ••• so look us up. No obligation, of course. 
Put it..togellsar In Air Force ROTC. 
"There is a lot of academic tension, more than ever before," stated Dr. Sheridan P. McCabe, director of the Counseling Center. McCabe also said there has been an increase in "competitive spirit" this year. "All you neeed is a critical mass of students who feel it, and it becomes a kind of con· tagion." 
McCabe said the tension is not necessarily due to more work on the part of the students but to more worry. "I couldn't say to what extent this is due to the lack of a break or to what extent the break 
will alleviate this, but a break you're away from the University, couldn't hurt," he remarked. you get a different perspective on 
"We've never felt the lack of a things." break in the past, but pressures Bro. John Benesh, rector of are much greater now than then; Alumni Hall, agreed a break is I'm convinced of it." he said. "something the students need." 
Benesh also said he has the im­pression that students have more pressure and more work this year than last, but he added he could not make a good judgment on it. 

However, he said. "People have been working hard. They need time off and time to " 
WHY REALISTIC ... 
BECAUSE WE REALIZE THE VALUE OF A DOLLAR, BOTH TO YOU AND TO US. OUR PHILOSOPHY IS TO BRING YOU THE BEST QUALITY PRODUCTS AT THE LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICE. OVER 2,000 STORE$ SELL AND SERVICE THE EXCLUSIVE REALISTIC LINE OF ELECTRONIC PRODUCTS. MANUFACTURED FOR AND BY RADIO SHACK UNDER THE MOST STRINGENT QUALITY CONTROL THAT ASSURES EXCELLENCE FROM THE INSIDE OUT. RADIO SHACK RETAIL OUTLETS ELIMINATE MIDDLEMAN PROFITS AND WE PASS THE SAVINGS ON TO YOU. WE MUST BE DOING SOMETHING RIGHT. WE.RE THE WORLD-FAMOUS LEADER IN CONSUMER ELECTRONICS. 
50% OFF! OUR FAMOUS MC-1000 SPEAKER SYSTEMS 
Reg 59.95 EachSpread the sound with a pair of Realistic s bo.)kshelf acoustie suspension speakers 

PAIR
in handsome walnut veneer enclosures Only 17%x8% x11%: 40-1980 
SAVE $100! REALISTIC R AM-FM STEREO RECEIVER WITH AUTOMATIC FM TUNING 
Test listen our sensational Reg. 299.95 STA-82. See and feel the luxury of 1ts graceful styling. Experiment with 
199~~056 
Fr. Thomas Tallarida, rector of Zahm Hall, also said students are ready for the break. "The tension has built up," he noted. "A lot of students have been studying, but they don't have good attitudes." 
"Right now," he continued, "I'd like to get every student in the <Zahm) hall to get away. When 
(Photo by Tony Chifari) 

the many dials and controls Think of saving 33% You II want our STA-82 -an exceptional receiver for those who know fine stereo' 
SAVE $5! DELUXE NOVA-14 STEREO HEADPHONES 
.. 
Escape to your pnvate world of stereo 
listeni~lg pleasure at an unbelievably 
low price' Set the volume/balance 
controls for the sound you like1 
and vou can 
Reg. 14.95 
99 ~3-1013 


CHARGE IT 
At Radio Shach 

SCOTTSDALE MALL 
.. 
• 
Friday, November. 21, 1975 the observer 
What's going on here at ND over the break? 
by Marianne Schulte 
Staff Reporter 
Security Director Arthur N. Pears encourage alll students to use greater precautionary measures to protect their valuables over the Thanksgiving break than they would noramally practice every day. 
"When school is not in session is the time that the campus is visited by the downtown people and students from other schools in the near vicinity," Pears attested. "This is when the trouble starts." 
Citing carelessness on the part of the student as the major cause for campus burglaries, he urges all students to lock their rooms when they leave them for any length of time other than a few brief minutes. He also cautioned students living on the ground floor rooms of their dormitories to .keep their windows locked, whether planning to leave for the break or remain on campus. 
"Valuable possessions of students leaving for break would be best protected if kept in the care and custody of students remaining on campus," Pears said. "Even off-campus students should con­sider asking on-campus friends to keep valuables for them if they are leaving for Thanksgiving." 
According too Pears, any student may leave his registered car in the D-1 parking lot over break, whether residing off­campus or on either quad on campus. He explained that although all the parking lots will be patrolled regularly, closer watch is more easily facilitated if all of the motor vehicles are together in one place. 
Campus Housing related that because if the number of students expected to remain for the duration of the break, no special vacation security measures will be enforced. However, detex locks will be in operation 24 hours a day. Regular parietal hours are to be maintained. 
Hall rectors are ·to determine whether they would like their specific dormitories opened or secured. Thus far only one women's dorm has decided to use a cvacation lock. In the case of a "secured dorm" dorm, each resident will be issued a key to be used for entrance to the hall. 
All academic buildings will remain open, although many campus services will follow revised hours in regard to closing. Most facilities will be closed all day on Thanksgiving Day. 
Darby's Place will be almost the exclusive recreational function occuring on Thanksgiving, although it will be closed for the rest of vacation starting Wed­nesday. 
Darby's will open from one o'clock in the afternoon until 
Holy Cross trio speaks of Chile 
(continued from page 1) 
The events leading up to the exile began with the captur~ of Dr. Shelia Cassady. a British national, at the Provincial House of the Columbian Fathers, on Nov. 1. Although the four people in the house did not have any weapons, the Chilian Secret Police entered with guns firing. Dr. Cas~ady has since signed an affadavit saying that she was tortured after her capture. 
The second raid occured early Sunday morning on St. Rose's Parish where Father Whelan was arrested' 
The secret police then went to the home of the two Sisters of Notre Dame. The polic~ did not know of Armstrong's participation. When she answered the door, they asked about the whereabouts of Nelson, who was not at home. 
Armstrong . said, "From their 
(continued on page 10) 
Keenan Mass 
Due to the eroded conditions at the 5 o'clock Mass on Sundays in the Keenan-Stanford chapel, another Mass will be offered at 5 o'clock on Saturday evenings. Fr. 
midnight on Thursday, offering "Last year the dining hall only free food and soft drinks. The had one meal in the afternoon special attraction will be two free ending at five-thirty, so Darby's showings of the film Funny Girl at Place decided to have a free late 2 p.m. and 8 p.m.. All students, snack of ham and trimmings," faculty and administrators are Griffin said. "Eleven seven-pound invited to attend the festivities. hams were polished off, so we The money for the film was decided to do the same thing this donated by student government year. Student Affairs and the and the student body, Father generosity of student and friends Robert Griffin • spokesman for have helped to raise the money to Darby O'Gill, related yesterday. cover the cost of expenses." 
Dining Hall and Library schedules 
The North Dining Hall will close after the noon meal on Wednesday, 
November 26, and will reopen for the dinner meal on Sunday, 
November 30. The South Dining Hall will be open for all contract 
students staying during the vacation period. The meal hours are as follows: 
Breakfast 10:00-11:00 a.m. Dinner 2:30-5:00p.m. 
Friday and Saturday Breakfast 10:00 -11 :oo a.m. November 28 and 29 Lunch 12:00-1:00 p.m. Dinner 5:00-6:00p.m. 
Cont. Breakfast 10:00-11:00 a.m. Sunday, November 30 Brunch 12:00-1:00 p.m. Supper 5:00-6:30p.m. 
The regular schedule for meals will resume with dinner on Sunday night, November 30. 
LIBRARY Wednesday, November 26: . . The first and second floors of Friday, Nov. 28; and the Library will be open from 8 Saturday, Nov. 29. a.m. to 5 p.m. The Tower will be open from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Thanksgiving Day, Nov. 27 Library will be closed. Sunday, November 30. 
Regular hours will resume. 
RESIDENCE HALLS Because of the number of students exepcted to remain for the duration, no special vacation security measures will be in force except that detex locks will be in operation 24 hours a day. Parietal hours will be as usual: noon to midnight on Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday, and noon to 2:00a.m. on Friday and Saturday. 

SUNDAY STUDENT NIGHT SUNDAY 
NOV 9th NO COVER CHARGE & YOUR FIRST DRINK 1/2 PRICE WITH THIS AD & YOUR 
NO OR SMC ID HE WHITE HOUSE INN 
8 MI. N. OF STATE LINE. 
. TAKE  31  TO  NILES  THEN  
NORtH  ON 51 3  MILES. 683-9842  
------­ 

SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15 p.m. Sat. 
(Main Church) F'r. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:30 a.m. Sun. 
F'r. Thomas Blantz, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. 
F'r. Edward Kilmartin, S.J. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. Evensong will be at 4:30 p.m. in the Lady ChapeL Archbishop Lawrence Graner, C.S.C. will be the celebrant and homilist assisted by the University Chapel Chior. 
There will also be a new Mass on Campus at 5:00 p.m. every Saturday in Keenan-Stanford chapeL
r------------··-EM----------...
I RADIATOR I 
I /fi I ~ l<epairing I 
I NWE CAN HANDLE THE TOUGH ONES" I I SINCE 1922 I
I 289-saso I 
'
I I 
·I I 
I ·I 
I I 
II II 
.CLEANING • RECORING I • GAS TANK REPAIRING I 
"TOUGH GUY" I
I Welding . Heaters 
II II 
SAME DAY SERVICE 
I AUTO RADIATOR co. 1136 MISHAWAKA I I I I''IF YOU HAVE A ROUGH TRIP AHEAD I 
I OF YOU, CHECK OUT THE I 
Only classrooms don't like breaks. 

w~r <liolnnial Jancnkr ilnust_ 
''Enjoy a snack or 

~:· ..~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. :::; 35 Vilrieties of Pance~kes :::· >ch1c k0n Steak Sandwiches ::: (Friday Nites: Perch Dinners ? 
:~:::::::::;:;.;:;::::::.;::.:·:-!~:·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::#i 
Your Hoc..t
U.S. Jl (Oixieway) North (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards, NO '50. 
Richard Conyers will be the 
I 'TOUGH GUYS'.". I
celebrant. 
~------------------------J 
The Observer 
an independent student newspaper Foundt>d NovemMr 3, 1966 
The Observer is published by the students of the University EDI'TORIAL BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Mary's Colleve. It does not necessarily Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief reflect the policies of either Institution. The news is reported AI Rutherford Managing Editor as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent Jim Eder Executive Editor the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, Ken Girouard News Editor cartoons and regular columns express the views of their Bob Mader Campus Editor authors. Column space is available to all members of the Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Ken Bradford Copy Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Val Zurblis Wire Editor 
Tom O'Neil Features Editor 
Editorials: 283-1715 News: 213-1661 Business: 213-7471 Bill Brink Sports Editor 
Chris Smith Photo EditorBu sineu Manager Tom Modglin Dan Sanchez Senior Night EditorAdvertising Manager Tom Whelan 
Friday, November 21, 1975 

A Right to Food 
One year ago this week the United Short-term solutions cannot meet this Nations World Food Conference ended in massive problem. The good intentions of Rome. Representatives from 130 the World Food Conference need to be countries departed with a resolve that translated to permanent national policy. 
within the decade no child would go to bed The efforts of the Hunger Coalition to hungry. pass the "Right to Food" resolution are a One year ago this week several concrete step toward setting a national thousand Notre Dame students shared a policy on hunger. Through this "sense of meal of tea and rice to experience first­the Congress' resolution the right of each hand the daily subsistence meal of the individual to a "nutritionally adequate world's starving. diet" is affirmed as a goal of American 
In the last year little has happened to ligislation and policy. alleviate the problem of world hunger. Each person on the Notre Dame-St. There have been stopgap measures to Mary's community can aid this cause by . 
meet the so-called "food crisis". Fr. writing members of Congress and urging Hesburgh's personal appeal to President them to support the "Right to Food" Ford was instrumental in increasing U.S. resolution sponsored by Senator Mark food aid by two million tons last Hatfield and Rep. Donald Fraser. February. The resolution won't bring more food Leading food experts from Earl Butz to directly into the villages of the Third 
Lester Brown have conceded that the World. But it may provide a national food crisis has passed-at least for now. direction on this burning moral issue. It The cruel fact is that millions are still may also ease the conscience when we all 
dying of malnutrition, and no one knows sit down to a plentiful Thanksgiving meal whether food will be scarcer in future next week. years. 
P.O. Box Q 
Dear Editor: 
It happened again today. to he honest or to cheat. I per­dedicated student in any major. Another article in the Observer sonally feel there is little cheating The majority of the complaints about those terrible cut-throat going on in science at ND, no less come from those who don't make it premeds, written by a poor self­than I hear about any other college in the program. Do they think they pitying premed who has "become at this university. If you are so deserve to get into Med school discouraged from medicine and concerned about cheating, and are simply because they are good, disappointed in ND" "because of constantly subjected to it, do honest, fun-loving people? There recent articles about unethical something. Writing a letter to the is no free lunch. You have to work tactics on the part · of some Observer hardly rates as a strong to get into med school; if you don't premeds." That certainly seems move. Would you rather get out of make it, there are alternatives in to be a deplorable condition, Mr. premed because others are getting health related fields. Or, is money
> Viviano. The real shame is that ahead of you by cheating, or would the only object of worry? you are making decisions about like to do something about it? That So Mr. Viviano, there are more your professional and collegiate is your choice. It should not be a than two alternatives to cheating. careers solely on "recent ar­choice of you cheating or not. If you are not destined to get into ticles". Can you not form your own I am personally sick of people med school, there are alternatives 
opinion? complaining about premeds. as varied as the fields of science I question your own ethics if you Premeds study hard because 1they and health. The decision is not up feel you have but two alternatives: have a goal, no less than any to "recent articles", it is up to you. Chris Bowe 
DOONESBURY 
~:#AMY, I 8E6 Y~ 61~ IT fJP! Cf)41!3 BACK 7lJ 7H& tirE YOIJ KNOIJJ! VAt//&
1H6S/(//.1..$ )a!'~ 8WI GiveN-YOU L1RP KNCWS I f)()? 
I PO! I 
.. MY tOV&R, MY «!IF~ .. MORel MY Fl<leNP. MORE! I 
I 

As the Bells Toil 
--------------tim o'reiley 
As the bells toll the death of General Francisco Franco, they ring another unwanted echo of America's greatest policy failure, Vietnam. This country spent a staggering amount of lives, time, money, and effort in a misguided effort to halt Communism. We lost there and may now be too drained to affect the deteriorating situation in the Mediterranean. 
Franco's passing attaches a new fuse to a country with an emotional, and often violent history. El Caudillo first brutally suppressed, then kept the lid on, dissident politics for the past 36 years. Various groups have been emerging from their cocoons, even before Franco's death, and moving into position for a gloves­off brawl. 
All non-fascist parties are demanding to be realized, the left unwilling to wait long. In fact, they are already pressing for the ouster of the new king, Juan Carlos. The Communists have some strength in urban areas and amongst the Catholic clergy. Their numbers appear to be increasing, and not too hesitant about igniting a new civil war. 
The people in general, want relief from the censorship and the powerful Guardia Civil. Both incoming tourists and Spaniards vacationing in other countries have whetted the appetite for a more liberal democracy. While not losing their relative prosperity, many Spaniards would like to reform Western Europe's most back­ward political system. 
Lining up on the other side are the Fascists, determined to see Franco's system stay unchanged. They have begun to gird up for a possible shoot-out with the opposition and will try to keep Juan Carlos in line. 
The young, twtested king must somehow dance and weave past all these would-be tacklers, lest Spain go down with him in another bloody civil war. Spain's present economy, built slowly and painfully after the last conflict, would be shattered. Unless Juan Carlos proves a very astute politician, this could happen in a land that has seen extreme and destructive shifts of government before. 
Portugal, on Spain's western border, seemed in the clutch of a Communist regime only a few months back. But popular uproar was such that it forced the ouster of this government, and installed a more liberal set of rulers. The Communists regrouped and struck back these past two weeks, leaving anarchy the only leader in Lisbon. 

'A <:msERVAllVE CHOICE WiLL GIVE YOO liDUBLE~Sh~n{, AI11~1BEREAL~UCFEE WIHaLLL''
GlVE YOO TinJBLE F~M REAGAN-AND 'F 'ttXJ OONT \..fM.Qt:. Am.xtV\11, w. IMK lUJ[\ · • 
Farther east, the Italian Communists are inching toward power through natural causes. The Christian Democrats, having run Italy since World War II, now run an Italy that is inefficient, corrupt, crime-ridden, and economically troubled, (and no, the trains don't run on time). By the next elections, the Communists will probably garner enough votes to realize the "historic com­promise," where they will be let into the top echelons of the government. 
Marshall Tito of Yugoslavia is one year older than Franco was, at 
83. He has unified several regions and ethnic groups that previously fought with each other. Once Tito dies, they may go at it again. 
The Russians have caused him a lot of problems lately, too. His mixed capitalist-socialist system, relative freedom of movement for Yugoslavs, and distinct independence among Eastern European nations has irked the Soviets since the late forties. Recentl) uncovered plots show the Russians manuevering to crush this independence by armed force, if necessary. And still, ltio has no plans for his succession. 
The Mediterranean, because of its strategic importance to the Middle East and the Soviet Union, certainly ranks as a more im­portant stake than Vietnam. Yet the price of Vietnam has moved this country to shy away from such potential risks. Public opinion polls show a pronounced aversion among Americans to fighting for Western Europe, much less the poorer countries of the Mediterranean. 
In the end, all could turn out peacefully and for America's best interests. If not, however, we'll be caught carrying a beehive 
r 
1 
Friday, November 21, 1975 the observer 
7 
Letters to a Lonely Go 
the future facing the old 
reverend robert griffin 
There is, or used to be, a small army of aging ladies who lived in a respectable establishment called the Eastland Hotel in Portland, Maine. I would meet them on visits to that Yankee town when I would stay as a guest at the Eastland. There would always be little groups of them clut­tered in chairs in the lobby, waiting for the excitement when a cruising movie star or a decadent dowager would appear, though they usually had to settle for Bible salesmen and the business representative from Upjohn's Unicaps. 
Once the estranged wife of an Episcopalian bishop had stayed at that hotel, and Eleanor Roosevelt had come to spend the night there, though she wouldn't register when the management insisted that she put the late-President's dog Fala in the hotel kennels. There really wasn't much excitement in the Eastland lobby, unless the Rotary Club was meeting, or the local high schools held their graudation dance, or the news truck came to deliver the evening paper. Still, the ladies waited in hope for events that never happened; otherwise their days were spent in looking forward to dinner time, when all of them would appear, dolled up and primped, in the hotel's Egyptian Room. Sometimes ­after dinner, a lady pianist would knock out tunes fromGershwin and waltzes from Victor Herbert on the lobby piano. By nine-thirty, most of the ladies were back in their rooms watching the evening television. 
It was risky for a single priest like me to linger in that lobby if he didn't want to become part of a dowager's diversion for that day. There was one particularly aggressive spinster named Miss Briggs, who had a reputation for being bolder than all the rest. Ifyou delayed for an instant to read the church notices or thumb through 
the pretext of needing help in unscrewing a fountain pen or adjusting a watch; after that, you were pretty well captured. If you had the time, you really didn't mind, because she was a nice lady who needed to talk to someone younger than eighty who wasn't suffering from an arthritic con­dition. 
"Are you a Portland priest?" she would say. Then, not waiting for an answer, she ­would add: "Miss Mary Lou Daggett will be appearing tonight at the hotel piano. You could sit next to me, if you like." 
I would murmur my regrets at having to decline her exciting offer. "I will be visiting my mother," I said. I don't think she expected me to accept her offer, and she might have considered me dull if I did. Her real need was to talk to someone who 
offered the refreshment of being different from the hotel cronies who lived off each other like the people on that fabled island who supported themselves by taking in each other's laundry. She also needed to be the first lady .in the hotel to chat with the priest. It gave her a temporary im­portance to be able to identify to the other ladies the New Boy in Town. 
"I suppose you are a Roman Catholic," she said, eyeing my clerical collar as though it were a union card carried by the minions of the Pope. When I tacitly confessed to being a partner in papal in­trigues, she said: "Miss Walsh's a Roman Catholic, and Miss Manning turned Roman Catholic three years ago. Mrs. O'Brien has a brother-in-law who's monsignorof a church up in Harpswell, and there's a Jesuit who comes here to see her every month since her husband died. He's a thin little man, and Mrs. O'Brien says he teaches Greek at the Catholic high school. Do you know Monsignor 0 'Brien up in Harpswell?" She asked the question as though she doubted the monsignor's existence, and as though claiming mon­signor as kinsmen were just a Catholic widow's way of putting on airs. 
"I'm an Episcopal myself," she said; but I knew, in spite of the distance of Canterbury from Rome, she was going to adopt m~ anyway, if I would let her. The problem is, with ladies met in lobbies (and every hotel has them these days, from Fort Lauderdale to Los Angeles), you don't dare to let them adopt you. Fierce rivalries develop between the ladies who invite you for lunch, and the ladies who invite you for bridge. The Catholic ladies think they own you. The Protestant ladies want to question you on their hopes of immortality, and on whether, if there is a purgatory, credit cards and traveller's 
checks are accepted in payment of passage. You could love everyone of these old dolls as though she were your favorite aunt. You pity them for the loneliness that huddles them together, and you admire them for the courage that keeps them going. All of their lives at this point seem to be an escape from the nightmarish fear of the illness or the injury that will confine them forever to nursing homes. But you really don't dare let them try to adopt you. Eventually, of course, I ended my visit in Portland, by trying to avoid Miss Briggs and the tribe of elder daughters she represented. I would leave the hotel late or early, using a series of corridors and elevators offering a street exit that detoured the lobby. During my few days in town, I didn't have the time to get in­vovled. But when I finally checked out of the Eastland, I sent her a rose from the florist shop with a goodbye note attached. I knew the rose would be her prestige symbol among the ladies who would gather to hear Miss Mary Lou Daggett playing Gershwin on the hotel piano. 
And after Miss Briggs in Portland I met Mrs. Massey in New York. ' 
At ~oontime, ~o.u can see Mrs. Massey lunchmg at Patncta Murphy's tea room in the village, and in the evening she dines at the Plaza. She can quite easily walk the distance to Murphy's from her lower Fifth Avenue apartment, but at night, she needs a car for the ride uptown. Her chauffeur leaves her at the hotel, and later he is sent for to bring her home again. Most of her afternoon is spent in getting ready for dinner, but at eighty-three, she hasn't much else to do. She enjoys good food e~ten with other aging ladies like herself, widows and old maids whose family wealth has left them secure. 
Of course she doesn't always dine at the Plaza. Any fine restaurant will do as long as the service is superb and attention is paid to the dowager-type princesses who know even better than truck drivers where the best food is served these days. But Mrs. Massey does like the Plaza, even though she has French restaurants she prefers frothier Beef Wellington; and no one really knowledgeable, she says, would order the Plaza's Long Island duck. The maitre d' at the Plaza recognizes her ,and greets her as though she were expected, th­ough she has forgotten tQ make a reser­vation, and he sits her at a favorite table overlooking the Park. 
The saddest thing that can be said of Mrs. Massey is that she is lonely. It was her loneliness, I think, that made her call me up one day to suggest that I bring Darby O'Gill over the play with her French poodle, Tiffany. She had read a bout Darby in a magazine article; she had hear from a priest friend that I was in New York, so she telephoned. 
~'Tiffany wants to meet Darby," she said. She should have said that she needed a friend who was less tiresome than those she sometimes regarded as the con­temporary hags she was always running into at dinner. I really respect Mrs. Massey as a great lady, but the only way she knew how to treat her dog was to spoil her. It was only after meeting Tiffany­high strung, neurotic, untouchable-that I could really appreciate Darby for the plain, simple, good-hearted beast that he is. I really think that Tiffany embarrassed Darby O'Gill: leaping up and down on expensive sofas, barking if you dared to look at her; nibbling at liver pate and sniffing at bottled salmon. 
Tiffany embarrassed Darby O'Gill and 
Mrs. Massey embarrassed me. She would 
have spoiled me as she had spoiled the dog 
if I had let her. I could have been he; 
evening escort to the classiest events in 
town. On her dinner tab, I could have 
commanded waiters at the Forum of the 
Twelve Ceasars into doing Baked Alaskas 
on their bare midriffs. On credit charges 
billed to her, I could have hosted a soup 
kitchen for the Bowery in the elegance of 
the Four Seasons restaurant. 
In the end, I had to avoid her, takihg 
alternative routes, as it were, "exiting from 
the Eastland. I didn't have the time to 
serve her as a family. I didn't have the 
taste to be court chaplain to her friends. 
At Thanksgiving-time, there are traditi­onal groups that we feel 8orry for: the derelicts served by the Bowery missions· the sick and lonely people in hospitals· th~ servicemen dining in the U.S.O.'s';the 
abandoned ancients living in furnished Lord of the feast. God would not have rooms. But there is another group I am 
~bared His lonliness with us, if it were saddened to remember at Thanksgiving: !ntended to defeat us; loneliness, after all,the aging ladies at a hotel like the ts only the emptiness of a heart that God 
Eastland. For them, in the dining room has created for Himself. 
th_ere ~ill be eleg_ant tables heaped high About a year after I had met Miss Briggs with wme and frmt. There will be punch at the Eastland Hotel, I got a letter frombowls of holiday cheer served by the her telling me of a wedding. "You may 
' 
management in silver cups. There will be remember," she wrote, "that when youturkey and dressing and cranberry jelly. 
left, you sent me a single red rose. It wasThere will be plum pudding served with a brought from the florist by a gentlemanrum-and-lemon sauce. There will be nuts named Clancy. That evening he came a~d fruits that dentures and aging gums back to hear Emma Jotberg on the flutewill not have the courage to attack. And and he sat right between me and Margaret l~ter, there will be Gershwin played on the Mary O'Brien. Both of them being Roman p1ano by a local talent. 
Catholics, they took quite a shine to eachBut at the age of eighty, there is a limit other. Next week, they're being marriedto the amount of turkey you really care to at St. Dominic's. There's a Monsignoreat, and even Thanksgiving can seem like coming from Harpswell who is Margaretanother heavy meal so that without Alka Mary's brother-in-law. He's going toS.eltzer afterwards, you couldn't survive perform the ceremony, and I'm going tothe night. It is not the food that makes the be the maid of honor, even though I'mfeast. not at eighty, when Thanksgiving Episcopal. They're having the reception may seem to be a celebration of merely right here at the Eastland."
having survived. F?r all the lo~ely people, young and old, Dr. Johnson would say of such a 
I wtll be offermg Mass on Thanksgiving marriage, "It represents the triumph of 
Day, that ~t whatever table ·they dine, in hope over experience." But it really 
poverty or m riches, they will sense how in makes you believe that there is a future 
their loneliness they are like a family to the facing the old. 
dr. zhiuago headlines week in teleuision 
TV guide has refered to this week as a 
thomas o'neil
''Banner Week" for television: the planned entertainment this week is so ~iscretion to be used when allowing thevarious and exceptional being scheduled ht~le peoJ?le to view it, so you can expect·to accomodate the holiday season they quite a btt of rauchy speculation in thiscould describe it no other way. The net­supposed film biography. One shouldworks, it seems have redeemed them­think that the man whose death caused the~elves finally and are making up for the greatest turnout at a funeral home evermtellectual and imaginative poverty of the might be deserving treatment better thanlast few weeks. ­this, even though his talents and even his.T<> open the _television triumph , NBC actual attractiveness can be doubted.
wtll be presentmg Doctor Zhivago in two Franco .Nero portrays the Legend, with aparts--the first to be seen on Saturday supportmg cast composed of Suzanneafter the game on ch. 16. The second part Pleshette and even Milton Berle. 
ca~ be seen on Monday. This 1965 adap­tation of the Pasternak classic by David Specials
Lean and Robert Bolt is of course one of the all-time box-office banazas but also a 
There are a host of specials on this week. 
visual masterpiece of romantic film-art. 
Among them will be the parades whichThe story is one of a Russian poet caught are as much a part of Thanksgivingmercilfully between his love for two celebration and feasting as the Bicen­women and the grip of a violent revolution tennial turkey and can of course be seen inand may fit too well into the traditionai the traditional time slots. Charlie Brown''romance-set -against-a -revolution'' will be having a Thanksgiving special on
motif, but being tastefully and 
CBS at 8:00 Saturday entitled (what elseprofessionally crafted, the film becomes a but ...) A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving. 
universal expression our romantic The Oscars' greatest music will be theelements can gaze upon with child-like subject of an hour-long special to be seenwonder _and appr~ciation. In the past 10 on Tuesday at 10:00 on ch. 28 with hostyears, smce the ftlm was produced, it was being Jack Lemmon. Also there will be aresurrected at the local theaters even special on breast cancer which can bemore often, and with as successful a seen on PBS at 8:00on Monday. Lee Grant turnout as Gone With the Wind. And so narrates. And the JFK and RFKfinally it will presented on television assasinations will be the topic of a two-partalthough prostituted to commercial ad: CIJS Reports Inquiry to be shown at 10:00ver~i~ers _and cut in two parts to tease the on Tuesday. Social Security--Howdeftmte viewers. It won six Oscars in 1965 Secure ? will also be on Thanksgiving, anancd stars Omar Sharif Julie Christie' NBC documentary scheduled for 10:00.
R?d Steiger, Tom Co~rtenay, Ralph Billy Graham will be on TV for a fewRtchardson, Alec Guiness and Geraldine nights in a row, beginning Thanksgiving, Chaplin. Exellent motion' picture. 
with "Jaws and Jonah," his address toAlso a six-Oscar winner of its year young society.
(including Best Picture> is A Man For All The Masterpiece Theater's presentation Seasons, a film adaptation of the play by of the life of George Sand with RosemaryRobert Bolt <author of Ryan's Daughter Harris starring as the 19th centuryand the screenplay to Doctor. Zhivago) to romanticist was exellent last week, and sh· be presented on Thanksgiving at 12:30 on auld be equally as good in the future (onNBC. The film deals with the life of Sir Sundays, PBS, 9:00 ). And this week.the
Thomas More and his 16th century con­Classic Theatre presentation will be Sirf~ontation with Henry VIII over Henry's Arthur Wing Pinero's Trelawny of thedtvorce and his departure from the Church ·wells'.
of Rome. It's director, Fred Zinneman won an Oscar for his work as did Paul Sports~cofield for his portrayal of Sir Thomas 
Naturally the sports line-up this week is More, and Robert Bolt for his screen exceptional. It includes the Ohio State ­adaptation of his original work. The movie Michigan game played.at Ann Arbor, ; ahas been termed a film for all seasons match to decide one half of theby assorted critics and for this holiday New Year's Rose Bowl at 12:45 on ABC.
season so (if you missed its past TV The Penn State --Pitt game will follow thepressentation) part of your holiday af­Buckeyes and Wolverines. Sunday af­ternoon should be devoted to watching this ternoon football will be: Chargers vs.
exellent motion picture. 
Vikings at 2 p.m. on 16; the Bears vs.
Rudolph Valer\tino will be the subject of Rams at 4 p.m. on 22; and the Raidersa made-for-TV movie entitled The Legend against the Redskind at 4 p.m .. Mondayof Valentino to be shown Sunday night at night football will feature the Steelers vs.
9:00 on ch. ·28. It's supposed to be a the Oilers (at 9 on 28).
distasteful and inaccurate representation The Thanksgiving Day line-up will be:of the Sheik's life, and the Hollywood idol the Rams vs. Lions at 12:30 on CBS; thewho began as one of Hollywood's Four Bills vs. the Cardinals at 3:30on NBC· andHorsemen in The Four Horsemen of the Georgia Tech vs. Georgia at 9 p.m. on ABC.
Apocalypse. ABC is advizing parental 

············~~~··~··~···~····'•
Over faculty salaries :· TIMM PARTY STORE : 

•OPEN: MON-SAT 9am-11pm •
Press critici-zes Burtchaell : • Sl)NDAY 12noon 11 pm : • 
0 
by Phil Cackley, He said that figures taken fom pay higher faculty salaries than Staff Reporter the American Association for Notre Dame. • COLD BEER,WINE, LIQUOR, • University Professors (AAUP) The median salaries for 1974-75 
: GORMET FOODS :
Irwin 1-'ress, chariman of 1the Summer Bulletin, 1975 show that are as follows: Northwertern, 19.3 Faculty Senate Committee on some schools in the group of peer thousand; Duke, 18.9 thousand; 
: 3114 S. 11 St. NILES, MICHIGAN :
Faculty Affairs, expressed pointed institutions pay lower salaries than Vanderbilt, 17.4 thousand; Indiana, 
disagreement with a statement Notre Dame. Pittsburgh and Southern· : "BIG-GEST LITTLE : made Wednesday by Fr. James T. Based on this, Burtchaell stated California, 16.6 thousand; St. Burtchaell, University Provost, that Notre Dame faculty salari8S Louis, 15.0 thousand; and Emory, 
: ••:~~q'l~1.~l~ll.f.~. W~IIJ~N~'••-.!
that Notre Dame faculty salaries actually rank in the midst of those 14.8 thousand. rank in the midst ofthose of "peer of the "peer institutions," which Figures for Cornell were 
-·---------------­
institutions." include Vanderbilt, Cornell, Duke, unavailable, althought the average I 
DICK'S I
t
In an article in Thursday's Ob-Northwestern Indiana, Southern compensation is considerable 
I 1102 So. n.nd A.o. (STa.) I
st·a·n·r. Burtchaell statea that California, St. Louis University, higher than Notre Dame's, ac­faculty salary increases cannotibe Iowa, Emory and Pittsburgh. cording to Press, leading to I South Bend, lnd 46617 I determined until spring because Press stated emphatically that justifiable speculation that Cor­SNOW TIRES I budget priorities will not be Burtchaell's comments were nell's median salary is higher than I determined until that timet totally misleading. "He implied Notre Dame's. G-78 14 $3791 
A-78 13 $28.44
that Notre . Dame's salaries rank "Notre Dame hardly ranks 'in I J-60 15 $30.09 I Burtchaell also commented on a · roughly in the middle of the "peer the midst' of these peer in­C-78 13 $29.92 
F -78 15 $33.53
Faculty 1Senate committee report institutions.' In truth, we rank stitutions," Press concluded. I IC-78 14 $30.61 I G-78 15 $35.10
criticizing the University for near the bottom," Press said. "Only two of the ten pay lower I E-78 $32.07
14 
lagging behind Big Ten schools and Citing the same figures used by salaries than Notre Dame." G-78 15 $38.24 
F-78 14 $33.53
other "peer institutions" in faculty Burtchaell, Press showed that Burtchaell will address the I J-78 15 $39.65 
I 
G-78 14 $34-97
salary increases. seven of the ten peer institutions Faculty Senate at the Dec. 2 
L-78 15 $40.82 
meeting, according to Prof. Paul 
PLUS FEDERAL TAX
ND-SMC Council trying Conway, chairman of the Faculty I Senate. Following the address will MOUNTING FREE AND FREE R-E­be a ques'tion and answer period. I MOUNTING IN SPRING "l'don't think he'll be talking FREE 3 MONTH TOWING THRU
to improve relationships I
about faculty salaries," Conway 
said. "It will probably come up in by Liz Merrell munity. questions." Staff Reporter According to Bowman, "Very 
few people feel they can simply be 
In an effort to improve friends with a member of the 1975 grad killed relationships between students of opposite sex. They have to date SMC and ND, several concerned them on a formal basis. It is in auto accident administrators and students have possible for a guy and a girl to jusi Word was received yesterdayformed a committee aptly labeled be good friends without being from Fr. Bob Huneke, rector of the ND-SMC Council. serious about each other. So often Grace Hall, that Thomas Joseph 
guys think that if a girl stops over Risen, a 1975 graduate of theJohn Bowman, ·student coor­
\ to see him she is putting the University was killed Saturday
dinator of the council, feels the 
moves on, trying to get a date." night, Nov. 15, in an auto accident. 
situation needs to be remedied The council proposes to achieve The accident occurred within twoimmediately. "I am tired of their goals by introducing the blocks of his home in Potomca,hearing people complain about the group as a means of association. Maryland. No further details aresituation. I hope through this They have several group activities known at this time.
committee, we can get something planned, including trips tostarted in an attempt to resolve 
Chicago, the Dunes, and neigh­
it. .. Congressman
boring universities. 
The two basic aims of the council "We've got to test this approach are to alleviate any lingering so we're starting out with Riegle to spec;rkimpressions of a stereotyped relatively small groups of female student at both schools and, students," Bowman stated. "If it Congressman Donald Riegle of more importantly, to Bowman, to proves successful, ·then we will be Michigan will speak on Sunday,establish a more natural expanding our program, but we've Nov. 23,at8p.m. in theNotrel>ame relationship between the male and got to establish a firm foundation Library Auditorium. Riegle is a female population of the com-initially," he said. candidate the senate seat of 
"The idea behind the group retiring Senator Phillip Hart. approach is this: if students can Riegle's address is sponsored by
Shortage Olprot,~ 
~ meet on the informal basis of a the Student Union Academic friendly gathering, then all the old Commission. \ l·n Business Dept. ideas, those of the stereotype and 
[ the dating-engagement type \ hangup, will gradually fade into Chess match is 
(continued from page 3) oblivion. It won't be something
' 
questioned the department. that happens overnight, but ·we 
"I asked why there weren't really do want to do something to slated Monday enough teachersavailableto teacn straighten this situation out," The Notre Dame Chess Club will more sections of the course. They Bowman explained. play the South Bend Chess Club, gave me no real answer. I was The next meeting of the council Monday, Nov. 24, at 7:00p.m., in able to get the course as a senior has been scheduled for Monday, room 227 of the Math and Com­working through my departmental Nov. 24. Anyone interested in the puter Center. Anyone interested advisor," Pszeracki said. council or the meeting should may participate. Bring a chess set Many business students who contact Bowman at 283-4393. and or a chess clock if possible.
'} 
\ 
I find it difficult to get their choices. ~ 
\ In order to get their second elective, they must wait until the rest of the department has selected ~~ '--~J 
l :==~~~r~~A~Y~I-U~S~A~_~_f 
\ first. li Despite grade pressure in the 'IJ.\-"~~""" :Ill
:111111 
accounting department and the ~ #t~ ~ general difficulty in registering for ~ • ~~~ ~ electives, students praised the ~ ":.~'f• J
s
accessibility of the professors. ~ \:~--.·. f 
m~J~ea~r~~~r~t~~~fe to Y~~:~~~ ':::. ~--~I
_4J
'd ',.., .. • ~ !4;,~
< /
w:t~~~o~~d=-=1~ ~ •-'t.t "'~ <i_ ~ '-'. JETHRO TULL o~, ~ fNext to Giuseppe'S' I ~ ~~0~~· "MINSTREL IN THE GALLERY" 't: v,.q I f Constant Dancing f 1 \ :.>-~"~Q ~,s REGULAR $5.47 '-~.q~~~lf?.. 1 
f at the I i!! ~~y.l'-.1~ NOW $3.99 l. ,..l.o~:.o~ i!! 
t KICK OFF CLUBI I PRICES EFFECTIVE THRU SUNDAY NOVEMBER~23 I
I 7 1 3 E. LaSoIIe f ~ ~ I Tues., Wed., I i!! i!! t Fri. & Sat. t I I 
f 8-2om I~ -I
'· 
tBeer, Wine & Food f I 
~ -t_!~.Q~1.t!lP~lil L...~..................~.,......., ......'-W.,MI!~...,...,.~~...,.~~-a::---·---......,••~~~-...-.,....._.___IIJ__.,
f_r_~~"_,.-_ 
,~:" 
' -' 
-4 -· 
~ 
\ 


CD PIONEER SX-535 AM/FM Stereo Receiver 
r--­
1 ­
~---~L..!..lL•-•__! J' •, o 1 • 6 ~ 
ALL AUDIO DEALERS -------·--------------­
• t • • I I I -;-l,.-~ ··~ ~ 
WHO ARE BOLD ENOUGH TO OPENLY COMPETE WITH OUR FAMOUS DISCOUNT PRICES ARE CORDIALLY INVITED
The receiver lor 
TO CHALLENGE US IN A "PRICE WAR."
people WhO lhlnk bla 
PLEASE ACKNOWLEDGE
BOd IDIDd IIRie. 
BY OFFERING AND ADVERTISING
Now you can get the stereo performance formerly found in only the most expensive receivers, at an easy-to-afford 
THE LOWEST PRICES 
price. Pioneer's SX-535 has a Phase-Lock-Loop circuit 
THIS CITY HAS EVER SEEN.
for increased channel separation & lower FM distortion, and a direct-coupled amplifier output stage to give you more power over a wider range of frequencies. There are connections for two tape decks with switching to permit tape-to-tape duplication. Among the many fea­tures are: microphone and headphone jacks, switching for two pairs of speakers. FM muting, loudness control, separate signal strength and center-of-channel metefs. Minimum continuous power output of 20 watts per chan­nel into 8 ohms, 40Hz to 20,000Hz, w.tn 0.8% maximum total harmonic distortion. SIN 70dB. FM sensitivity 1.9.uV 

{IHAS $299.95--NOW$235 
Get more~ of everything for less. 



®PIONEER~ 
~X-636 AM/FM Stereo Receiver 
Here's a fine stereo receiver that'll keep you happy for a
Hear the biD sound 
long. long time. Advanced circuitry includes phase-Jock­loop, ceramic filters and large scale integrated circuits for toJ:· ~erformance from records, tapes and broadcasts. In addition, if has plenty of power to handle two pairs of speakers -even in large rooms. With a full range of 
ol hi-li at abudget price. 
Cv!) PIONEER~ F-51 
program source connections. it handles two tape decks, with deck-to-deck duplication. Other features include: front panel microphone and headphone jacks. high fre­
2-way Speaker System 
quency filter, loudness control. FM interstation muting, illuminated program source indicators, dual tuning me·
Ideal for any moderate powered stereo system, this 
ters. Driving 8 ohm loads, minimum continuous power 2-way speaker system offers rich, solid bass, a mellow output is 25 watts per channel from 20Hz to 20,000Hz, midrange and sharp, crisp highs. with a total harmonic distortion level of 0.5% at the$64 9 5most. Outstanding specs include: SIN 70dB, FM sensi-
AS $125----NOW • tivity {IH\\lJ\spt$e3a49:d95----
QUANrtrtEs Of SOMI 
$275 
SPECIAlS Alll liMIFID N 0 w 
OD PIONEER. RT-1020L Stereo Tape Deck with 4-channel Playback 
Here's virtually every feature you"ve ever wonted in a tape deck. Plus the facility to playback discrete 4 channel tapes with its four playback amplifiers. Starting with three motors, three contourfess heads and l 0 'h·inch reels, the RT-1 020L has everything to recommend it for professi~n­ol performance and operation at home. Features include: direction action push-buHon controfs ... click-free switch­ing . . . MIC/line mixing • . . sound-on-sound, mono mixing ... pre-let program timer ... pause control for editing . . . A-digit tope counter . . • 3-step tope bias selector . . . l-step equalizer . . . 2 speeds ..• dual level VU meters . . . headphone jack, plui much more. Of course, sound reproduction is superb. It's a Pioneer. 

WAS $649.95---­
Now$549.95 EDiOY thiS 
turntable 2ways•••bY 
oertormanca and orica 
PIONEER. 
PL-120-11 

BELT DRIVE TURNTABLE 
Motor: 4-pole sync1,ronous motor Wow a. Flutter: <0.08%(WRMS) S/N Ratio: 48dB 
WAS $119.95----NOW 
$89.9 
I 
. ~ 
l 
j 
j 
0 
pee a lsts 
41 5 N. MICHIGAN AVE. 234-5001 CLOSED SUNDAY 
RECORDING TAPE CLINIC Next Tuesday night 4-8 P.M. we will have $8000.00 worth of test equipment and factory personel from Maxell to test any reel or casette tape you bring in for recording qualities. So if you have ever wondered what is the best tape to use stop in Tuesday night with a sample of your favorite tape or •wo. 
ALSO 10% OFF ON OUR ALREADY LOW TAPE PRICES ON ANY TAPE IN STOCK DURING THE CLINIC 
">-,,,, ' •. 

1 
1 

-10 the observer Friday, November 21, 1975 

sponsored by the OMBUDSMAN SERVICE Monday thru Friday 9:30 am to 5:00 pm Monday thru Thursday 9:00 pm to Midnight phone--283-7638 
Q. What are the specifics on the bus going to Cleveland for the Thanksgiving holiday? 
A. The Notre Dame Cleveland Club Is sponsoring a round trip bus to Cleveland. It will leave NotreDame. at the circle, on Nov. 26, at 
1:00 
pm, and will cost members $20 and non-members $23. For more information or reservations call Bill at 3775, Dave 'at 1741, or at SMC Jenny at 4-4219 or Cathy at 4-4958. 

Q. 
What are the hours of the Nau? 

A. 
On Friday and Saturday nights, the Nazz is open from 10:00 pm to 1:00am. Wednesdays It's open from 10:00 pm to Midnight. For any information concerning the Nazz, contact Denis O'Brien at 1245. 

Q. 
Is it true the Biology Department has an essay contest? 

A. 
Yes, the BiologyDepartmentlls offering the "J. Bruce Allen ward''· for the best paper submitted ·on an ecological topic. A deadline of April19, 1976 has been set for entries. For Information or to enter, see the Assistant Chairman of the Department at 107 Galvin. "The Quickie" is running this Friday and Saturday nights. It leaves the circle beginning at 8:30 p.m. 


Secret spYing revealed 
Father Richard Warner, assistant Provincial for the In­diana Province of the Holy Cross said, "The trial should be short since all of the evidence will be 
,Pr~sented during the hearing. The defense will have two days to resen its case." 
'l 
.; 
L SIERRA SPORTS
.L2216 MIAMI 
U H BEND IN. 
At St. Mary's 
Nickname search to continue 
(continued from page 2) 
selecting, it wanted to ensure the students of the final vote. 
The committee decided to asess a new approach in order to arouse more interest among the student body. According to Coyne, notices were placed on the dining hall tables, in hopes that students will think of nickname suggestions. Coyne felt that this process would stirup interest and creativity. 
The second plan makes the committee meetings open to members of Student Assembly, members of hall council, hall reps., hall pres., and hall vice­pres. Coyne and other committee members feel that by opening the meetings to more diverse groups•, they will be able to absorb more suggestions. Coyne stressed that although no name was chosen, the survey cannot be termed as totally unsuccessful. "The committee now has a starting point. We now know what we don't want. survey has started the women of the campus thinking," Coyne said. 
On behalf of the committee 
would like to thank everyone for 
taking the time out and submitting 
contributions," commented Coyne. 
Coyne felt that all participants did very much to help the survey. Coyne is very optimistic at the outcome and she added. "They've done so much already. Even though their idea . wasn't chosen 
-FOR YOUR bACK PACKING 
NEEDS 
233-8383 
we  don't  want  to  lose  the  en­ so.  "The students will have the  
thusiasm  already  dislplayed  by  final vote," stressed Coyne.  
those on amapus."  Information and suggestions can  


WATCH ND-MIAMI GAME ON OUR NEW WIDE-SCREEN TV 
' I 
( .I 


-.. -.-,.,-., ....•. -, ~ ' 
• .... • , ' ·.• , •••. l· ,. 

Friday, November 21, 1975 the observer 11 ""' 
Irish face unknown Denvertea1n 
By Tom Kruczek 
Twice a year, from the beautiful OColorado country come a type of people that John Denver never sings about. In fact, no one ever sings about these people, and few people want to talk tQ them. 
They come into a town with a wily 
leader who possesses a unique ·trackrecord ofperformance and will do almost anything 'needed· 
to win. 
These strange people hale mostly from the re~ion of western Canada and the upper realm of the United States. 
They are the Denver Pioneers hockey team and they invade the ACC for a Friday and Saturday night series. 
Charles <Lefty) Smith admits that not much is known about these men who are more at home felling trees, and sleeping in log houses. "What we know about them comes mostly from the grapevine," Smith commented. "They never really release alot about who they have recruited, but we do know that they recruit mostly from western Canada." 
Usually, these north woodsmen play a tough brand of hockey, after all, what is there to do there other than play hockey? Smith pointed out that if the past is an indicator, they will empha size defense and "sit back and just wait for a good opportunity.'' 
Th leader of this pack is Coach Murray Armstrong who comes into the game with a 2-4 league mark and a career record of 429-179-29, as he enters his 20th season with the Pioneers. 
Armstrong has much respect for an Irish squad that is tied for 5th in the WCHA with a 3-3 record. "Notre Dame defeated a very good Colorado College team in Colorado Springs. They swept the series down there and we know how tough it is to win in the Springs. We are certainly expecting a very tough series and it will be a real test on the road for our young team." 
Young in college experience, but not necessarily young in age. According to reports, Armstrong has heavily recruited from the Canadian Tier 1 leagues. Tran­slated, Tier 1 is a loose definition of what might be called semi-pro hockey. But it isn't exactly semi­pro hockey, and although the league has given up trying to define these terms this year, and allowed Tier 1 players to compete in collegiate hockey with no age 
The Irish Eye 
(continued from page 12) 
sively. If their youth doesn't hurt them, then Bo should have his sweet revenge. Wolverines by 7. November 27th Tuas at Texas A&M: The Aggies are out to avenge last year's 32-2 
defeat and head undefeated into the Cotton Bowl. They have a strong running game and the top defense in the nation with which to do it. The Longhorns want the bowl back badly too, and led byEarlCampbell on the ground, they will stay right with the Aggies. But this looks like A&M's year. Aggies by 3. 
November 29th: Alabama vs. Auburn (Birmingham>: This will not be the contest it usually is. Auburn does not have the team with which to send departing coach Shug Jordan out on a dazzling upset victory. Bear's Tide will end Jordan's disappointing season with a disappointing loss. Alabama by 17. Arizona at Arizona St: This could mean an undefeated season for State and possibly a ranking up around five or six. This is their only tough game all year though, so don't take it too seriously. Frank Kush is 
murder on his Sun Devil players, so he should be murder on the Wildcats. State by 10. Georgia at GeorgiaTt>ch · The Bulldogs are Cotton Bowl-bound, but 
stand the risk of taking another loss into the post -season classic. Pepper Rodger's has his wishbone attack down pat, and only a fine defense can stop it. After this game, the Cotton Bowl may have wished they'd looked elsewhere in the state. Tech by 3. Army at Navy <Philadelphia): This one should be even worse than last year's 19-o ,thrashing of the Cadets. The Midshipmen defense will probably sut out the Army again. This service academy feud will be settled without a battle. Navy by 17. Florida at Miami <Fia>: If the Hurricanes are coming off a loss to the Irish, they'll get beat handily by the Gators. If they are coming off a win against the Irish, they'll still get beat handily by the Gators. Florida by 
17. Upset of the Week: USC over UCLA, on November 28th: The Trojans hold a yearly jinx over UCLA, and should have regrouped from their downfall enough to continue it. Ricky Bell keeps on proving he is one of the nation's premier runners, and the Trojans, if they can stop John Sciarra's fine offensive attack, should save some face for this year. USC by 10. 
Last week 10-5for .SMPer'~ht\Season io9:37for .746per'~e~t.' ·: · · • • 
limits, it rem~ins that the Irish will 
be competing against an older 
team, agewise at least. 
Denver is coming off a bad season. The Pioneers slipped from third to ninth in the WCHA with an over all record of 12-23-1. This year the Pioneers, currently in 8th place in the league, lost twice to Min­nesota-Duluth, then came back to split with a good Michigan Tech team and split again with an ex­cellent Minnesota team. 
Armstrong lost four of the six defensemen from last year, but has more than adaquate replac;emets. Freshamn Greg Woods will be teamed with Lex Hudson at first defense. Woods is the second leading scorer on the team with four goals and six assists. Junior Lindsey Thompson, who is third in the scoring race on the team with five goals and four assists will be paired with Brian McAlister on the second defense. 
At the forward spots, Armstrong has returning almost everyone. The top scorers of Chad Campbell and Mark Falcone is the will skate with the first and second lines, respectively. Falcone is the teams top scorer wiht five goals and six assists. Campbell has three goals and six assists. 
Armstrong will probably start freshman Jim Bales in goal this weekend. The freshman has played in six games, given up 31 goals for a 5.2 goals-against average while rejecting 173 shots. 
The Irish are ·coming closer to getting healthy for a weekend series. The wounded this week will be Terry Fairholm and Geoff Collier. Collier's hand injury in the dormitory which resulted in surgery appears to have gone well, with the center from Montreal now in a cast and will be lost to the team, it is estimated, unitl January. 
The Irish are coming off a successful series with Michigan, which brought 6,693 people to the ACC fort he twogames. By Smith's admission, Notre Dame played five out of six good periods, with the bad one accounting for the 9-6 loss on Saturday. 
"We're quite pleased with the games against Michigan," Smith stated. ''It's a tough league that we are in and with the traveling, the back to back games, and and considering who we have played, we aren't all that dissatisfied with 3-3. That's not to say that we wouldn't like to be however " 
Smith concluded. three players in the top ten in The games will start at 7:30 p.m. league scoring. Brian Walsh in in both •nights with tickets on sale for fourth with 2 goals and 10 assists, $1.50 for students with ID and $3 for six of the assists coming from adults. Michigan. Alex· Pirus and Clark Hamilton are tied for tenth with*********** ten points each. Pirus has 7 goals 
WCHA Stat's.-Notre Dame has 
and 3 assists, while Hamilton has 5 
CAMERA BAGS 
AND 
CASES 30% -50% 
OFF 
Ault Camera Co. 
127 S. Michigan South Bend 233-6145 
WANTED 

LA SIFIED ADS 
Ride needed to Conneticut for 
Thanksgiving. Call Tim 8953. 
2 need ride to Pittsbugr Mon. Nov. 
24. Call 4409 or 4553. 
Need ride to anywhere near Pitt­sburg_ Will share expenses; can,t IPave till Wednesday morning. Mark 8732 
Desperately need ride to I.S.U.(Normal,lll.), this weekend, Nov. 21. PIPase call Tim 1170. 
Need ride anywhere near Albany, 
N.Y. Can't leave until Wed. lunch. Please call Bob-1479. 
ALBUQUERQUE~! NEED RIDERS TO LEAVE MONDAY EVE. Nov. 24. CALL DAVE AT 1478. 
Need ride west on 1-80 to Daven. port Iowa area can leave Monday 24 Nov. 75 Call John 1861. 
Need ride to Youngstown Ohio or vicinity Thanksgiving holiday. Jim 8941. 
Need ride to N.Y.(Long Island) or vicinity, share expenses and jriving, can leave 11-25 call Bill 6827 
Wanted: 2 reservations can. 
celation for UnitPd Flights 11-26 
12:55 or 4:30 Phila. via Cleveland. Call 1103. 
Girl nPeded for role in independent student production on Neil Simon's "Star-Spangled Girl." For more information, call Jeff 1825 or Lou 2187. 
Need Riders to Mpls. or Minnesota for Thanksgiving break. Leaving Fri. Nov. 21st. Call "Beru" 289­9174. 
NEED RIDE TO SYRACUSE, NY AREA, FRIDAY NOV. 21. CALL 6804. 
Riders needed to Connecticut 11­
26' 1541. 
Ride needed to Washington, D.C. 
Call 288-3073. 
Need ride to ST. LOUIS; Nov. 26th. 
call Sandy 4476. 
Stuck here till Wednesday. Ned Ride to St. Louis for much-needed Thanksgiving break. Please call Maureen 6834 or 8661. 
NEED RIDE TO N.Y. AREA, 
LEAVING NOV. 21 eED 1778. 
NEED RIDE TO LOUISVILLE 
NOV. 24 OR 25. Call 7920. 
NOTICES 
Morrissey Loan Fund $20-$150 1 day waiting perios 1 per cent in­terest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune basement. M-F 11:15-12:15. 
Plants 112 price or better! See Flowers by Mr. Bruce, Ad in today's paper. 
John David Mooney Limited Edition (200) Print. S20 Cun. framed). Print sale in • ~ 
· 'd~l'lal.lghnessv Hall Mon. and "· 
Girls, don't miss Thanksgiving AAdventure! No Charge. 
Interested in Photography?? The 
N.D. PHOTO CLUB will have it's third meeting Tuesday night at 
7: 15 in Room 205 O'Shag. If you are interested, you are welcome to attend. 
BOOK SHOP. 30,000 Books and 
Prints. Ralph A. Casperson Books. 
1303 Niles. Hours Wed. Sat. Sun. 9 
to 7 or chance. 
Accurate, fast typing. Call Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. 
A course of action ...Air Force ROTC. lf you've gor two academic years rematnmg in school (graduate or undergraduate) look into our AFROTC programs. It's one way of planning for a good future. Get all the details today. Contact Capt. M. L. Stockdale 283· 663(; 
USED BOOKS AND PAPER­BACKS large stock of general reading material and o.p. books. Bring this ad and receive one free papervack with any $1.00 purchase The Boodstack 112 W. Lexington Elkhart. ln. 46514. 
Books make great gifts. New books and box sets ideal for everyone At Pandora's Books-937 
S.B. Ave. 
Gay Hotline: Information, Talk & Friends. Gay Community of Notre Dame. 8870, Fri & Sat., 8-10 p.m. 
Student Govt T·Shirt Agency-for top quality plus low prices on T­shirts. Ideal for clubs or dor­matories. phone Dave Bossy 233­2647. 
FLANNER RECORDS HAS IN STOCK THE BEST OF JOHN LENNON, SEALS AND CROFTS, BARRY WHITE, AMERICA, CHICAGO plus the new AEROSMITH, CROSBY+NASH, FLEETWOOD MAC, ELTON JOHN, PAUL SIMON and many more. Call 1487 or come to 807 Flanner. 
The Quickie is running this weekend! Buses leave circle at 8:30,9, 9:30, 10, 12, 12:30. Check oosters for stops and fares. 
Greyhound to Chicago Every Fri. 
5:45 Leaves Main Circle. For Info Call Tom 8338 
FOR SALE 
JewPiry-33 per cent off Turquoise, Coral, Sterling, Diamonds, Engagement Sets. 234-7063. 
Guitar for Sale. Excellent Con­dition-Moving, must sell $200 or best offer. Call Peg 287-8733. 
For Sale: Pair of Rally (Bobby Orr) hockey skates, size 10, very good condition. $8. Call Jim, 3338. 
23 channel mobile c8 radio-"Hy. Gain" 3 mths. old. excellent for upcoming trip home $115 Call Bill 3271. 
FOR RENT ------ror Rent: Two female housemates wanted to share 3-bedroom house im­
mediately and-or next semester. 
2112 block: from ~ngela-ND,. in••·; ·LIVE WITH 'JHEM• AND•. VOU . ter~tfoh. Catl 289-4303 between~ SURE AS HELL CAN'T LIVE 
p.m. and 10 p.m. 

•=~A---;:• 
•i • 
·-----l~ 
•
• !. 
•
•. • U'=
•I •
•· • 
•I .. 
., ., --· 
• i• 
.,•. •• • 
• t .:. 
I •
., 
L 
·-•
• 
T

• 
! 


goals and 5 assists. Th Irish also ~ lead the league in drawing ~ penalties for ~he opposing team. 1 The Ir!sh have been penalized 102 
l l 
I 
minutes so far, while their ponents have been penalized minutes. 

MANY STYLES TO CHOOSE FROM 

OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING. Private 12 man student residence. All accomodations, including meals,laundry, single bedrooms. Excellent study atmosphere. 10 minutP walk from circle. Places available second semester. Call 
p .. t ?1?.0550 
Typing $.35 a page. Call Dan 272· 5549. 
Rent my upstairs. Near $50 a mo. 233-1329. Keepp trying. ------Student wanted to share 3-bedroom newly carpeted and remodeled horse ranch with 2 other students, 1 mile n. of cam. pus. Available in January. Call 277-0846. 
----=L:...::O:...::S..:.T~& FOUND 
Lost: Navy blue sky jacket. possibly contains SMC school ring. Really need coat for winter, call Cathy, 4958 
Lost: A silver watch, Timex, Electric, day, date. Black band.· R£>wsard, Tim 8164. 
Lost: Ladies gold watch between 
BP and Huddle. Reward, 1287. 
Found on N. Quad last Sat. Man's gold watch. Cll Fr. Griffin, 283­7066. 
PERSONALS 
Hirohito says: LifP is like a crap game. Sometimes you win, somPtimes you Jose, sometimes you break even. 
Dear Super Skimp, Have a Happy Half-Birthday. Give N. H. our love. Thursday. Karl M. 
COSMO and the BRODY BOYS from M.S. U. -good luck on you musical debut, 9 p.m. SMC cof­feehouse, TON I GHT! 
Rhinestone: What if U.R. does call you about the Senior Formal? 
C. Urchin
---·--­For a free FASAGO, call Harvy at 4049. 
Only Seven more shopping days till 
TJO's Birthday. tributions c-o P.O. preferred.  Send Box Q.  all  con­Cash  
Lady Fame,  

did you get our Chaucer yet? Black Knight 
Why is Matt Cockrell called AnQstrom? ( .ooooooooo 1 meters>. 
Hlen, Two down but only two to go? doubt it. Your the best. The optimist 
IMPORTANT: Do not read this personal until November 30. IM­PORTANT: Cut out and save until November 30. 
Happy Birthday Vall You are now the first person to have a personal in a sunday edition. 
JOHN REHER has 2 more days left in his golden year. Happy Birthday. 
If you don't know what to do with your money, call him and wish him a h.appy birthday. 
SUCH AS LIFE-YOU CAN'T 

op­132 
! 
l 
l l 
~ 
l I 
i 
' 
.. 
• 
• 
--~--------------------------------------------· 

by Fred Herbst 
The Notre Dame football team travels south tomorrow in an at­
, tempt to bring their 1975 season to a close on a winning note against the Miami Hurricanes. 
The Irish are coming off a humiliating loss to Pittsburgh and a week of reports that the Notre Dame team is dissatisfied with Head Coach Dan Devine. Dave Israel of the Washington Star, reported earlier this week that the Notre Dame team rejected a bid from the Cotton Bowl because they were "fed up with playing for 
Devine." 
Israel's report was denied by Devine, several players and Fr. Edmund Joyce, executive vice­president inchargeof athletics, but its affect on the team remains to be 

seen. 
Miami enters tomorrow's game with a 2-6 record, but has dropped a one point decision to Navy and a three point decision to Oklahoma. 
') Their other losses have come at the 
·~ 
( hands of Georgia Tech, Nebraska, Colorado and Boston College. 

Devine feels that the Hurricanes will give his Irish a rugged battle. "They're in excellent football team, very, very tough," he said. "They've played everyone very close, the best in the country. We're going right back into the rattlesnake's nest." 
The Irish will be without the services of Bob Golic, Terry 
l 
12 the observer Friday, November 21, 1975 
I 
I
Irish fly south for season•sfinale I 
Eurick and Jim Weiler. Steve Quehl is questionable. AI Hunter and Joe Montana, both of whom missed last week's game, will also miss tomorrow's contest. 
Rick Slager will again open at quarterback for the Irish. Sophomore Steve Schmitz will start at the halfback position vacated by Hunter, Eurick and Weiler. 
Co-captains Ed Bauer an~ ~im Stock will lead seniors AI WuJciak, Steve Quehl, Pat Polen, Rick Slage, Steve Niehaus and Tom Lopienski in their final game for the Irish. 
Miami's offense, which has 
scored only 15 touchdowns in eight 
games, is led by quarterback Kary 
Baker who has completed 51 per 
cent of his passes. Baker also 
leads the team in total offense with 
864 yards and is sixth on the all­
time Miami total offense list. 
Kicker Chris Dennis leads the 
team in scoring with 47 points. The 
Miami running game is led by Otis 
Anderson, who averages 5.3 yards 
per carry. · 
The defense has been a trouble 

The Irish defense will be trying to frustrate the Miami offense this Saturday night in the Orange 
spot for the Hurricanes a~ year. 
The Miami defense has given up 
192 points this season, while the offense has only scored 137. Joe Bettencourt leads the defense with two interceptions and a fumble recovery. 
Tomorrow's game will be the ninth meeting between the Irish and the Hurricanes. The Irish hold a 6-1 advantage in the series, with 
Bowl. (Photo by Chris Smith) the I965gameending in a scoreless tie. The Hurricanes' only victory 
was a 28-21 decision in 1960. Should the Irish lose tomorrow, it would be the first time Notre Dame has lost four games in a season since 1963, when the Irish were 2-7. Kickoff for tomorrow's game is set for 7:30p.m. EST. The game 
Russian comeback downs Irish 
record to 6-5.
' : by Bill Brink Certainly the Irish were notSports Editor 
outclassed though. With star forward Adrian Dantley leading anIn a performance that rivals the early second-half spurt, and fresh­
wheat deal for international 
man Bernard Rencher exhibiting
generiosity, the Notre Dame 
some dazzling ball-handling, Notre basketball team squandered a 16 Dame jumped· from it's 50-42point lead in the second half to halftime margin to a 66-50 leadhand the touring Russian team a with 13:00 left in the game. The77-76 victory in Madison Square Irish were still in command with aGarden last night. 
67-52lead when the Russians began The pre-season exhibition was to come back.
the first meeting the Irish have had 

Led by Olympic hero Alexanderwith another team this year, while 
Belov and Forward Alexsandrthe Russians upped their tour 
Sharnov, the Russians began a 21-2 
The Irish Eye 
~===========~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=========================:~:~=:;<i-:==~=~==============:::=:=:::;:=io:~::::: Foot b a 11 picks 
The big week is here. No more need be said except that Ohio State meets Michigan and Oklahoma faces Nebraska. Stanford meets California to decide in an important Pacific-8 match-up, and Harvard plays Yale in an Ivy League contest. Also, a revived Pittsburgh team hopes to pull off an upset over Penn State. 
Next week the action continues, with big matches between Alabama and Auburn, USC an UCLA, Texas and Texas A&M in a game which could determine the Cotton Bowl representative from the SWC. 
Here are the Irish Eye's picks for the next several weeks: 
November 22nd: I 
Notre Dame at Miami <Fla.>: The Irish have had bigger problems this week. Their saviour is the fact that Miami is really poor. That about evens out things. Notre Dame by 3. California at Stanford: These two potent offensive teams should battle to. the finish. :Each has a shot at the Rose Bowl, but Chuck Muncie gives the Bears a solid ground game that Stanford does not have, and Joe Roth has been excellent at quarterback for Cal. Give them the edge by 7. Purdue at Indiana: This game is for the pride of Indiana, and both teams have only pride to play for and very little to play with. The Boilers defense is too good, for the Hoosiers\though, so make it Pur~ue~by 7. . Missouript Kansas: Last year it was 27-3 in favor of the Tigers, and this year both teams are capable of playing real good f~tball. Both are coming off narrow defeats, and though the game doesn t m~an much, a Big Eight contest is never dull. Tony Galbreath and the Tiger offense give them the edge. Missouri by 3. 
·Penn State at Pittsburgh: Don't count on the Panther's performance last week as being an indication of their chances against the Nittany Lions tomorrow. Now, more than ever Joe Paterno knows what he h~s t? stop, and he'll have his team ready to do it. Dorsett is great, but Pitt IS not. Nittany Lions by 14. Texas Tech at Arkansas: The Razorbacks are still in the bowl picture if they win this one, so though Tech will make it close, Arkansas will make
'', 
it count. Razorbacks by 6. Nebraska at Oklahoma: The Cornhuskers have been super-strong all year, and they've got an undefeated season, ~nd perhaps the national championship at stake. Oklahoma, however, IS not a!l overrated team, they've just been lackadaisical lately. If they want this one bad enough, they can get it. It's going to be a great game, but the Huskers have more 
at stake. Nebraska by 6. . Ohio State at Michigan: tf ever a team wanted revenlle Its the Wolverines. For the last two years the've lost the Rose Bowl bidl 
to OSU, though it is extremely doubtful the Buckeyes ~ave _h~d the superior team. Gordon Bell and Rob Lyle can match Archie Griffm and Pete Johnson on the ground, and Michigan is a little better defen­
(corttinued l on, P.age 11) 1 
spurt that saw them tie the score at 69-69, then go on to take a 73-69 lead with 5:35left in the game. A jump shot and two free throws by Duck Williams tied the game at 73 apiece with 3:53 to go, but the Irish were hampered by the loss of Toby Knight and Bill Laimbeer , both of whom had fouled out. 
The team then see-sawed back and forth until Sergie Belov, the star of the Russian team connected to put the Russians up 77-76 with 
1:40 remaining. Dantley was fouled but the Russians had not reached the ten foul limit so there were no free throws. The Irish took the ball in bounds and fre­shman Bruce Flowers missed a shot. When they recovered the ball Sergie Belov stole the ball from Ray Martin, and the Russians had but to run out the clock to-win. ND tried fouling them, but under in­ternational rules, you can take the ball out on the side instead of shooting the fouls. The Russians did that twice to retain possession and win the £!arne. 
The Russia-ns started the game quickly, taking an 8-2 lead with Sergie Belov hitting from all over the court. But Dantley spurred the Irish on, and they finally caught the Russians at 21-21 with 9:21 left in the half. The teams stayed close until Billy Paterno put ND up by six with about two minutes left. Dantley added four points at the end of the half to give the Irish a 50­42 margin. 
Sergie Belov led all scorers with 30 points for the night. Dantley was second with 26, 18 of those coming in the first half. Alexsandr Belov tallied 19, while-Duck Martin and Toby Knight had 16 and 15 points respectively for the Irish. 
The Irish fly home today for Sunday night's 7:30 intersquad scrimmage at the ACC. Admission is fifty cents with all proceeds going to charity. 
Digger's team opens up its regular seaason action a week from Saturday, Novemver 29th hosting Kent State at 1 p.m. in the ACC. The Golden Flashes finished 6-20 last year under new coach Rex Hughesbut figure to be much improved in 1975-1976 
Hughes has recruited two junior college all-Americans, 6-Q Corteze Brown from Cuyahoga Community College in Cleveland and forward Jim Collins who played last year Western Wyoming. In addition the flashes return four starters in­cluding 6-8 rebounding ace Brad Robinson. 
wi11 e televised by WNDU-TV, on the Notre Dame-Mutual Radio channel 16, and will be broadcast · Network.
Bl.ll 

Act V 

We are approaching the conclusion to our drama, a tragedy whichever way you look at it. 
In the center stands the embattled king. His subjects have turned on him, the town criers have scourged him in print, the masses have daily pressured him for explanations. Occupying the throne of the most prestigious court in the land, he is now enveloped in a haze of controversy that threatens to destroy his reign. 
Like MacBeth, he is haunted by the ghosts of his past. Like Hamlet, he is anguished by the uncertainty of his future. As in most Victorian dramas, his present is shrouded in mystery, the truth ,hidden by the wave of ambiguities that rise to the surface each day. 
His royal aides have stood by him, battling the assaults that compound daily. But the attacks are coming from all sides now, and the defenses are giving way to the endless pressure that pounds at the walls of the fortress from outside. 
The grandeur of Notre Dame football is now in jeopardy. It cannot be denied. To presume that everything is fine, and that reports of strife and disgruntlement are just a series of unfounded, isolated incidents is to ignore reality. The reports are no longer isolated, and they are rapidly becoming more than just incidents. The question of whether or not they are unfounded is certainly not irrelevent, but at this stage, it is almost immaterial. 
Since the middle of the season the reports of something amiss at Notre Dame have circulated nationwide. Lately they have increased to the point where we have either a mass assault by the media for some unknown reason, or a real problem that must be dealt with. 
This week has seen a series of articles by David Israel in the Washington Star citing player dissatisfaction with head coach Dan Devine, along with a lack of faith in him. Israel claims this was the reason the team voted against going to the Cotton Bowl.· University and team officials, along with several players, have denied this story. Yet Israel quotes players. Again, we have ambiguities. 
Stemming from Israel's columns have been a chain of other articles on this topic by writers throughout the country. It has been on the wire services from coast to coast, finding its way into countless newspapers. Notre Dame is news anytime; this is big news. The reports coincide with an article in Sport Magazine. It deals with Devine nothere,but at Green Bay but it does not help. 
There has even been a report, earlier in the year, that Devine would be fired. Rumors concerning that continue to circulate. It seems that the magnitude of the reports increase as the season prograsses. No doubt they are all over the Miami area. The Irish will have more to worry about than the Hurricanes when they get there. 
What it all amounts to is a tragic situation for Notre Dame football. We have been through years with less-than-spectacular teams, and there have always been individual writers whose anti-Notre Dame feelings have impelled them to take shots at the school. But as we reach the conclusion of the season, we find that we are now the target of attacks from all sides, and from all kinds, respected and disrespected alike. Some of the attacks are outrageous, some are laughable. Others are intriguing, and still others, half-believable. They multiply daily, they swarm around us like pesty insects that are too numerous to be ex­terminated. The Notre Dame football program, which has always stood proud and strong, is now on the defensive. Dismiss the truth or falsity of the reports <and that is not easy to do) and you still have the most besieged Notre Dame football team in recent history. 
The force of U·.e University's denials is up against the force of the ac­cusations, and what has risen from the confrontation is an aura of con­fused controversy where no one is sure of anything, and anyone can speculate everything. It is, to say the least, an unhealthy atmosphere. Rumor has replaced football as the chief concern (how much talk have you actually heard this week a bout the Miami game). Th need to be cleared up, soon. We are impenetrable only up to a t-oint, and the pressure gets worse every day. 
Camelot this court is not, and a happy ending to our drama seems less possible all the time. It is now Act V, the witching hour, when all must be confronted, or lost. 
