New calendar released 
One day Thanksgiving break 

server 
university of notre dome -st. mary's college
Vol. X, No. 61 


by Shawn Scannell 
Starr Reporter 
The Academic Council yesterday voted new calendar guidelines calling for a pre-Labor Day start and a weeklong mid-semester break, while reducing Thanksgiving break to a one-day holiday. 
This result matches the motions introduced by Student Academic Council Commissioner Michael Gassman, except for the reduction of the Thanksgiving break. A 1976-77 academic calendar which has "the first day of class of the fall semester no earlier than the Tuesday preceding Labor Day," will be constructed after consultation with St. Mary's officials. 
The Council voted 31-14 to reduce Thanksgiving to a one-day holiday. A motion from Professor Gerald Jones divided Gassman's proposal into three part:>, the last of which, dealing with Thanksgiving, was not approved. 
Thanksgiving was cut back because of a concern about the economic strain of two breaks on parents who handle the traveling expenses. Discussion also indicated concern that a longer holiday break would lead to an eroded break at this time. 
llesburgh rt'ceives letters 
f<'r. Theodore Hesburgh, university president, reported at the meeting that he had received "quite a few" letters from parents upset that they had to bear the expense of two trips. He later stated, "I think the Council showed what they wanted. They voted unanimously for a needed mid-semester break, but not for another at Thanksgiving." 
Gassman later said that he was very surprised at the outcome. "It almost came to a vote without discussinn, but it was turned around. What's been done is to set a mandate that prohibits anyone from leaving even if they could have afforded the trip."­
"There was no consideration of the actual number 
of class days. Our proposal allowed enough based 
on University regulations, and even 76 percent of 
the students are willing to have a Saturday class to 
get the 70 days," Gassman continued. 
Gassman added that he will be "curious to know how many letters Fr. Hesburgh will get next year from angry parents who want their kids home for Thanksgiving, especially the freshman parents." 
Fr. James T. Burtchaell, University Provost, commented, "There isn't really such a thing as a four-and-one-half day break. The early part of that week breaks down academically. This calendar will help to alleviate that problem." 
About his motion to divide the proposed guidelines, Jones said, "The main thing I was in­terested in was to have a chance to vote separately on the package of a nine-day October break and a four-and-one-half day Thanksgiving break." The suggested proposal , he said, "would have left the calendar with 41 Monday-Wednesday-Friday class days, which in my opinion is just too few. Aiming to finish the year at Christmas, we couldn't take that much time off." 
'Laugh-in' arranged 
Student Body President Ed Byrne said, "There is nothing we can do to change the Academic Council's decision. 33-14 is quite obviously a majority opinion, and the Council will not take up the calendar issue again this year." 
"It's all very humorous, really," he continued. "I mean, seriously, there's not another university in the country that rationally expects their students to attend class on the Friday after Thanksgiving." 
Byrne and Gassman have arranged a "laugh-in" demonstration to take place Friday afternoon at 1 
p.m. in front of the Administration building. They invite "all students who are ifisent!hanted with the calendar decision to come." The event is planned to last fifteen minutes, ending in time for 1:15 classes. 
The Academic Council also voted on an amended section of recommended revisions of procedures of appointment and tenure. This section, defeated 28­24, dealt with the relationship of departmental chairmen, and appointment and tenure committees in the appointment and tenure process. 
Extended debate also took place on a second recommendation, of which would require that reasons for negative decisions concerning reap­
(continued on page B) 
Wilson explains plate tectonics 
by Maggie Waltman Wilson outlined the newest Starr Reporter geological discoveries in a lecture One-hundred million years ago, last night before an. audience of 75 Rio de Janeiro could have been the people in the Architecture capital of the Congo in Africa, Auditorium. He emphasized the according to theories presented by concept that Africa and South Canadian geophysicist Dr. J. Tuzo America were once joined together Wilson. but split apart through the process 
of plate tectonics. 
Tectonics refers to the structural behavior of a geological area as a whole. According to Wilson, the earth is an intricate mechanism with interlocking movement. Tectonics helps explain the meeting and separation of land masses throughout time which have contributed to the present physical appearance of this planet. 
Plate tectonics sees the entire earth as a dynamic entity encased in moving crustal plates which are even now being manufactured by processes within the earth's in­terior. The irreversible movement of the earth's crust which changes the horizontal position of the earth's layers causes physical changes on the surface of the planet, said Wilson. 
In the early 1900's, popular the­

ory in the field of geology was attributed to Alfred Wegener. Wilson explained, "Wegener believed that all the continents were once joined together to form a super-eontinent." He added, "Wegener supported the idea that after this land mass broke apart the pieces drifted around on the 
ocean surfaces.­
"Jigsaw Puzzle" theory 

Wilson accepts the "jigsaw puzzle" concept of Wegener, but disagrees with the idea of the continents floating around on • .,.,f the oceans. Wilson contends the continents are parts of geophysical plates that include the ocean floor 
or. Wilson explained how Afri~ and South Ameri~ were once joined in their makeup. Wilson together many yurs ago. (Photo by Tom Lose) (continued on page 8) 
yesterday's Academic Council meeting. (Photo by Tom Lose) 
McDonalds? 

Huddle not enough 
by Mary Pat Tarpy Staff Reporter 
A survey of Notre Dame students yesterday indicated that although the Huddle is satisfactory to many, there is a need to expand the services to include something similar to a McDonald's. 
The survey showed tht 70 percent of the students polled found the Huddle adequate but many qualified their 1statements. Of those responding positively 15 percent changed their statements to "somewhat adequate." 
Tom Maschmeier typified the majority response, noting, "I'm satisfied with the Huddle. Everything that I've ever needed they've had, --the basics anyway." One student felt that it was a good place to go to get food and to get away from studies. 
Several students said that the Huddle usually has what they need at a specific time, but sometimes the quality of the service isn't adequate. 
Thirty percent of the students were not happy with the Huddle. A student who wished to remain anonymous said, "They don't have a good selection and I think it's poor quality. I would rather wait in 
tine at'the pay cafeteria." One student claimed the Huddle closed earlier than posted on certain occasions. 
McDonald's on campus? 
The response to the question, "Would you like to see an establish­ment like McDonald's on campus?", showed 63 percent in favor and 37 percent opposed. 
Explanations for opinions in favor of McDonald's were varied. The answers ranged from one student who believed McDonald's would be cheaper and faster to the personal preference concerning food. 
A student explained, "At McDonald's hamburgers have to be a 100 percent meat, but at the Huddle it's questionable. I'm partial to meat. I can do without the grizzle." 
When questioned whether McDonald's would replace the Huddle or coexist with it, the majority of the respondents indicated that they would like to see both the Huddle and McDonald's at Notre Dame, if it could be done. Thirty-seven percent of those responding to this question felt McDonald's should replace the Huddle. 
Those opposed to McDonald's thought it would be a detriment to the campus both financially and in appearance. 
Tom Livingston said, "I'm against McDonald's actually on the campus because of its commercial nature." Some expressed the feeling that it just would not "fit in" on campus. 
It appears that although the students are satisfied with the operations and services of the Huddle (70 percent), a great majority would like to see a franchise brought to campus (63 percent). Chris Jafe, a sophomore in the College of Science, noted, "I think it would be cheaper and faster, and the food might be fresher. The Huddle is satisfactory but it isn't good enough." 
Itwas also mentioned that the Huddle is satisfactory in providing certain services and weak in providing others. This is where a McDonald's could aid the ~otre Dame community. 


warld briefs 
MIAMI -Four bomb blasts rocked downtown Miami last night, police said. They also said they had no clues to the perpetrator of the bombings, though various Cuban exile groups have claimed responsibility for many blasts in the past. 
One bomb was at the local FBI building, two outside post office branches and another in front of the Social Security office. No injuries were reported. 
CONCORD, N.H.-A researcher showed a slide of a distinct rust­colored object supposed to be the legendary Loch Ness monster. It has what appears to be two front appendanges and a long neck. 
<See story page 3) 
WASHINGTON --Democratic governors seeking greater influence in the 1976 presidential campaign, advocated yesterday that the federal government should couple a $12 billion tax cut with a $10 billion program to revive the economy and create jobs. 

an campus l:aday 
lectur~, "bernardofJf clalrvaux: the mystic and
3:00p.m.-­society" rm. 715, lib. 
4:00p.m. -· lecture, Zen Buddhism, Lib. Lounge. 
4:00 p.m. __ lecture, "on Improving learning and memory In the aged" rm. 119 haggar ha_ll. 
3:30 p.m. ·-seminar, "localization In disordered systems" con­ference rm. radiation lab. 
4:30p.m.-· colloquium, "on arithmetic automorphic forms with respect to unitary groups" rm. 226, computing center. 
dinner, fourth annual madrigal dinner In regina hall,
6:30 p.m. -­
for reservations call 284-4176, regina hall. 
7:00p.m. --platform session, mock political convention paltform meeting, lib. aud. 
7:30 p.m... seminar, "Interview management for women" board rm. hayes-healy center. 
lecture, "Notre Dame: Past, Present and Future" by8 =00 p.m. ·· University President Rev. Theodore Hsburgh, Grace Pit. 
8:00 p.m. ·· lecture, "In defense of drink: the political Influence of late victorian brewers and publicans" lib. lounge. 
( * the observer ) 
Night Editor: Val Zurblls Assistant Night Editor: John O'Caicutta Layout Staff: Gall Delasho 
Editorials: Terry Keeney, Pat Hanifin Sports: Bill Brink 
Day Editor: Mary Reher C.:opy Reader: Don Reimer 
Typists: Marie McCarthy, Nell VIII, Karen Hinks 
Phased-Out Phototypesetter: Carolina (Please give to P.O.O.H.--Poor Out-of-work Operators of Hal) 
Night Controller: Davel "Color-Coordinated" Rust ) 
THE 
RESUME PLACE 
25 8 1/2x11 RAG BOND 
Only $2.55 


insly·prints · 
203. N. MAIN SO.BEND, IND 
289-6977 
[___________, 

A NEW wall put up between Gilbert's and the bocl1kst·ore Paul Clevenger) 

In bookstore by Xmas 
Renovation to be completed 
The rearrangement and renovation of the Notre Dame Bookstore will probably be com­pleted over the Christmas break, according to Bookstore Manager Bro.Conan Moran. 
The building previously occupied by Gilbert's Men's Store is now under renovation and when the work is completed it will provide 900 square feet of extra space. This floor space, according to Moran, will be used for the bookstore of­fices and to relieve some of the present congestion on the main floor. 
The space vacated when the offices are moved will be used for additional book space and the extra space on the first floor will allow for eight or nine checkout lines, according to Moran. "The 
.. "·' 
extra checkouts will alJow for quicker service during rush periods," Moran commented. 
The University is paying for the remodeling work; however, this will not result in a rise in prices at the bookstore, Moran emphasized. 
Though pleased with the ex­pansion, Moran felt that even more space could be used. "This isn't 20 percent of what we need," he said. 


Reg. 94' 


2 $149
FOR 
Reg. 94' 


2 $149
FOR 

$AYE WITH THESE MONEY SAYING COUPONS THRU 
DEC. 14th 
3 LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU 
710 W. McKINLEY AVE.-MISHAWAKA (Town & Couatry Shopping Center) 1702 S. MICHIGAN -SOUTH BEND 1807 LINCOLNWAY EAST ­
Reg. 94' 

2 $149
FOR 
Reg. 94' 

2 $149
FOR 
' 
r 
t ~ 
' 
b. Q.Q.Q9. Place T.Q. Be! 
When? Tomorrow (and every Fri) A chance to be with good people 
for Mass and informal supper. 
Everyone welcome -Mass at 5:15 

-----------------------~------------~--------1111111111 
Thursday, Decemb:.:e::..r-=4~,-=-":...:7-=.S___....:.t~h.:....e=--o=-=b-=s=-e=--rv..:......=ec..:r___....:....3 
-Scotish monster confirmed 
CONCORD, N.H. (AP) ·-A scheduled for Dec. 9 and 10 to see the Loch Ness photographic ex­
-

researcher has shown a Rines' pictures was canceled pedition--were leavng it up to the 
photographic slide of a rust­because of what the sponsors scientific community to determine colored object purported to be the called excessive publicity in 
exactly what the objects

legendary Loch Ness monster. Britain. photographed are. The object . appeared to have two First word of Rines' discovery 
British naturalist Sir Peter 

front appendages, a long neck and and photos came on Nov. 22 in a 
Scott, who has seen the complete a head. copyright story in the Boston set of Rines pictures, announced in 
The slide showing was the latest Globe. Since then, a number of London on Monday the can­in a series of revelations both in the scientists who have seen one or 
cellation of the symposium of 

United States and Great Britain in more of the pictures, have com­eminent scientific people who were recent weeks concerning a group mented publicly. Most have 
to examine the photos.of pictures taken underwater by an praised the clarity of the pictures. The decision, "in no sense American photographic team last Wednesday night's showing of 
reflects in the smallest degree on June at Loch Ness in Scotland. one of the slides was the first to a 
the nature of the evidence or the 

The team was headed by Boston lay audience. Rines said the slide integrity of those who obtained it," patent attorney Robert Rines, who was taken by an underwater said Scott, chancellor of Bir­is also dean at the Franklin Pierce camera at a depth of 45 feet with a mingham University.
Law Center in Concord. He strobe light. 
Scott told reporters shortly after 

showed the slide to a group of 
Rines was angered by the word of the photos leaked last 
about 50 students and friends 
publicity given the photographs, month that the Rines photographsWednesday night. 
particularly in the . British press, helped convince him that the Loch 
The slide depicted an object with 
and had asked that the description Ness monster is a living prehi­
distinct features, including the 
of the slide shown Wednesday storic reptile which may be 40 feet' 
frontal appendages, a trunk Rines 
night not be made public. long.
said was 12 feet broad and a neck 
A spokesman for Rines em­This week, Prof. Herbert J.
Rines said was 8 to 10 feet long. 
"We think it will electrify the phasized in a telephone interview Howe, a Purdue University that Rines and other members of paleontologist, said he believed the 
world," Rines said.
----~T ~ 

He said there were other, clearer the Academy of Applied Science-­monster may be a prehistoric "}"'' . 
......... 
photographs, some of them shot at the Boston group which undertook reptile dating 70 million years. the considerably closer range of 4 feet. He said the monster was "looking right at us with its mouth open." 
Rines showed the slide in Con­IT'S BEGINNING to look alot like Christmas--These two students cord two days after an an­prepare for the upcoming holiday season by decorating this Christmas nouncement was made in London ' tree at the CCE. (Photo by Tom Lose) that a scientific symposium 
Students prefer McDonald's 
convenience and central location. the large amount of people that a
(Continued from page 1) 
A small number of students felt quick service is capable of ac­If there were both a McDonald's that the hours of the Huddle were comodating." 
and the Huddle on campus, 48 good and the service is "pretty 
percent said they would frequent quick." The remaining answers One student felt the major McDonald's more often. 16 per­varied from good ice cream and drawback was the lack of beer. cent said they would use the fruit to the variety of items. Susan "When the huddle starts selling Huddle more often. The remaining Newbould stated, "It's just a good beer, I'll be "satisfie-d," he said. 
36 percent didn't comment either place for students to get out." 
because. they didn't know or 
couldn't .decide. The weaknesses most often cited were poor quality food, high prices 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY
and the lack of variety. StudentsA sophomore said it would complained that the facility wasdepend on what she wanted. If she 
inadequate and sometimes dirty.
wanted yogurt or fruit she would need the Huddle, if she wanted a DECEMBER 5 & 6 
Jim Watkins, a senior, said, "It's 

PAIIA.OUIT PICTURES PRESEITS
hamburger she would go to 
too slow and it can't accomodate 
AI ALBERTS.RUDDY PRODUCTION
McDonald's. When asked why he would go to McDonald's more orten a student ·exclaimed, "A quarter pounder with cheese, why 
else!" 
Only 29 percent of those polled indicated that they used the Huddle frequently or on a regular basis. Thirty-nine percent said they sometimes used the Huddle while 32 percent indicated rare use. No student reported never that they use the Huddle. 
Strt>ngths and weaknesses cited 
Respondents named several strengths and weaknesses in the Huddle. The strengths referred to the most often were availability, 
Art department to sponsor show, sale in O'Shag 
The faculty of the Notre Dame 
Art Department together with the 
Notre Dame Art Gallery will 
sponsor a show and sale in the 
Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy on 
Dec. 8 and 9. The sale will run 
from 10 a.m. until4 p.m. both days. 
All members of the Art faculty 
have been asked to exhibit, and 
examples of original artwork in a 
variety of media, ranging from 
paintings and graphics to sculp­
ture, will be available for viewing 
and for sale. The prices at these 
shows are reasonable. 
In the past, these shows have 
been a considerable success, not 
only from the sales aspect, but 
from the standpoint of an art 
STARRING

BURTREYNOLDS 7, 9, II P.M.
The Observer is published Monday throu«;~h Friday and weeto;ly durin«;~ the ~ummer session. except during 

IN"THE 
exams and vacation periOds. The Observer •S published by the 

lONGEST YARD" ADMISSION $l
students of the Univ of Notre Dame and St Mary's College Subscription~ may be purchased for 10 dollars per ~emester (II oo11ars j!ler year) from The Ob 

ENGINEERING AUD. server. Box Q. ·Notre Dame. In diana, ~556. Second Class postage 
~~-No~e Dam~ IN 465~. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
AMERICA'S G'-b 
b~o..h
GREATEST HITS ~:.t •rG'­
e:,~"v 4i>~i>~ REGULAR $5.47 t>ll-1.:-e 1t
~#~~~ NOW$399 ~~~ 
~'\)~~i>~~~~ • uJi~OJ\t 
PRICES EFFECTIVE THRU SUNDAY DEC. 71H 

displaY,•jiS .\Vell. . . . • . : .....DUIIil..·~·~·~·-----~·""1·,~.,~.,~........~.~·1..~-~----a:l·~UU~MDdBB·BI·---~
#'"~ ... • ____ •_ ___ ·. , •. .,.~,.. ·~·'-'"'''~~~~·"r*·~'~"•·•-•-~,.,._ .• , ...-\-.. "'"' 
.. , • " • . _... -,.,.'?_W"_~,,-:·~----~~"'·1.~·f·-l:'t,l'•,t~,A"i•.. \,",_•f.. '~~.~ttl).'•·'•'r·'--···-,•,••,.41.J...,4o'lt4~ ...... \~,...,~,, '"'--.,_.,,~ ... ·~o ... :: ···~~ ................. .: •!.;' (;:'1 J t 'J ~ t • .,,-;.~.I 7~:~\'h~-·:f ·t"f·i'-: -t ,• •'//._.'_ •'· 1_.~ ),:.','.,","'1':"!-:.-.:4 "''t.C,r,'t1 (••· • ••~~;.,.-: J t t·i • i l 6 l lr &. {;. • ·• \o ·, t,. ._ .... '
.t.•.•ti.f't:'fi"to,,..,,.. tl\te'ltllft••"'~··~ ._,..,_.,.,,_~..,.;a . 

~---------~-­
the observer Thursday, December 4, 1975
4 
r 
r 
r 
FBI political abuses began in Roosevelt era 
r 
Martin Luther King Jr. Kenne­political intelligence about
Aides to the late J. Edgar Hoover assistant in the 1960s.' ~ WASHINGTON (AP) -Polit­Hoover, FBI director for the According to evidence pre­dy also authorized wiretaps in United State senators" that had 
~ 1962 on New York Times re­been obtained as a byproduct of
ical abuse of the FBI dates to entire period, could not sub­sented to the Senate In­
, 
the Roosevelt administration stantiate a single case in which telligence Committee: porter Hanson Baldwin and his other intelligence activities. ~ and includes spying on news­the bureau rebuffed an improp­-President Franklin D. secretary. Courtney Evans, who headed 
~ men, government officials and er request from the White Roosevelt in 1940 asked Hoover -President Lyndon B. John­the FBI investigative division son asked for FBI "name check in the 1960s, told the committee
civil rights leaders under presi­House. to report on hundreds of per­reports on at least seven jour­that Atty. Gen. Kennedy ap­dents of both parties, Congress "We followed our orders," sons who sent telegrams to the 
was told Wednesday. said Cartha DeLoach, a top President expressing approval nalists including NBC com­proved the tap on King on a 30­mentator David Brinkley, Asso­day trial basis to see if infor­
of criticism from Col. Charles 
ciated Press reporter Peter Ar­mation received bore out suspi­
Lindbergh, who before World
Near Eiffel Tower War II was opposed to the nett, who was then covering the cions King was being in­war in Vietnam, and columnist fluenced by alleged Commu­
United States entering any hos­
Joseph Kraft. nists.
tilities, or who were "more or 
-Johnson aide Bill Moyers But he said the assassination
less in opposition to national
Police kill gun1nan 
asked the FBI in the closing of President Kennedy fell with­
defense." 
days of the 1964 presidential in the 30-day period and thatPARIS (AP> --Police shot down truck walked into the bank and -President Roosevelt also or­campaign to report on all per­the attorney general may haveone of two gunmen in a street a shootout started in which sev­dered wiretaps on the home sons employed in the office of been so preoccupied with hisbattle early today after the men eral persons including a passer­telephones of his closest aides. 
Sen. Barry Goldwater, R-Ariz, brother's death that he did not
had held more than 20 hostages for by were wounded. -Hoover sent President Har­Johnson's opponent in the elec­follow up. In any case, wiretaps14 hours in a Paris bank, The exact number of injured ry S. Truman and his aides 
tion. continued on King until his as­
demanding $2 million in ransom. was not known. regular letters containing "tid­-Johnson asked for ' sassination in April 1968.
The gunmen were holding at bits of political intelligence" in­AutHorities said one gunman least 20 and perhaps as many cluding one which warned that 
TONIGHT

was killed and the other se­as 30 bank staff and customers potentially embarrassing scadal riously wounded, but two hos­in the basement safe deposit was brewing. tages in the car survived the room. -During the administration Pitcher Beer Nightshootout unscathed. They said In a similar affair last Sep­of Dwight D. Eisenhower the 
both gunmen were Algerians. tember, two bandits held seven FBI went beyond a White 
WITH

The gunmen had left the hostages for a day in another House request for a briefing on bank with hostages in a geta­central Paris bank. They es­racial tension in early 1956 and way car provided by police, caped with $1.3 million in a provided reports on the activi­
BRUCE CARR 
and with sacks apparently con­high-speed chase through the ties of southern governors and taining money. French capital. congressmen who opposed in­The gunmen had threatened The money was never found tergration. White House Inn 
but six persons are awaiting -Atty. Gen. Robert F. Ken­earlier to start shooting the trial on charges of complicity nedy personally authorized
hostages if they did not get the ransom in $100 bills and the in the affair. wiretaps on civil rig~ts -~eader 
~************~******************• 
~ SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION *i Bring them to 
* PRESENTS * 
! 2nd ANNUAL : 
iST. NICHOLAS BAZAARj Notre Dame 
* * 
~ i MON. DEC. 8 ! Bookstore 
~ AND # 
* *
! TUES.DEC.9 ! 
! 10:00-5:00 ! Thursday· Saturday ! tEMANS LOBBY ! 
* * December 11·13 
* *
: Come and Buy your # :* ChristJms treats... :* *t or just come and browse : * 
* * 
••*******************************'­
~ ' ! •' I • \ ~· ' ,I \. o ~ "r I :, ' • II, .., 'lo. ' r • I • j 
~; . f ··.· ..· :.··: .:.. ··: .: .• ··.. ·;: .·.·· ·.. ··:-. :-·-.· ··:-.·. :·: .. :-_,·. -··_.·_.. ' ..· 
"t'; 1 ~· <t ~. t" 'i'' 8_i'" • .•.• •..... •. · ..• ;, • _, ·· ..• •.• t.,.. t "'~' ~ ... t • t-•.• f • f • t • t •' 

·..~. .; . 
•.)<
'I:'It' '. J. 

., ,P·._,"
. {. ' ~ 

getaway car. 
The drama had been in prog­ress for almost 12 hours when police moved a car into place in front of the bank, located near near the Eiffel Tower. Po­lice Chief Jean Ducret said it was "physically impossible" to provide all the money, but oth­er reports said it had been pre­pared. 
The gangsters were reported to have told police, "We are in no hurry, we are comfortable here." 
As midnight passed, negotia­tions appeared to be lagging. 
Although Ducret's latest statement was that the gunmen demanded $2 million, the re­ported ransom demand fluc­tualed from $950,000 to $2.3 mil­lion during the siege. 
The gangsters also set an 8 p.m.-2 p.m. EST-deadline for delivery of a getaway car. No car was delivered by the dead­line, and the shots were heard during the next 90 minutes. Shots were fired at police try­ing to approach the building, but no officers were hit. 
The drama started at 10:40 
a.m., when the bandits entered 
a branch of the Credit Lyonnais 
bank on Avenue Bosquet. 

Seconds later, guards from a 
Brinks currency delivering 
Next year you could be on 
scholarship. 
An Air Force ROTC 2-year scholarship. Which not only pays your tuition, but also gives you $100 a month al­lowance. And picks up the tab for your books and lab fees, as well. 
And after college, you'll re­ceive a commission in the Air Force ... go on to further, spe­cialized training ... and get 
paid for yourstarted as an Air Force officer. : There'll be travel, responsibil­ity, and a lot of other benefits. 
But it all starts right here ...in college ...in the Air Force ROTC. Things will look up ... so look us up. No obligation, of course. 
Call Capt. M. L. Stockdale A.sst. Prof. of Aerospace Studies. Phone 283-6635. 
Put it altogether 
in Air Force ROTC 

--------------~------------------·-~-----
Thursd~! Decem~be=r_4~,~1~9~7s~·------~t~h~e~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r~----~5 
1 
New York federal loan supported by Senate 1 
WASHINGTON <AP) -Pres­ident Ford's $2.3 billion loan bill to prevent a New York City default survived its first Senate test Wednesday, indicating backers may have enough votes to quash a filibuster. 
The 57 to 23 vote tabled a move by Sen. Jesse Helms, R­N.C., that would have sent the House-approved measure to the Senate Banking Committee, de­laying final congressional ac­tion on it. 
The Senate opened its debate on the loan bill, narrowly ap­proved by the House 213 to 203 Tuesday night, with an imme­diate filing of a cloture petition to block a threatened filibuster by Sen. James B. Allen, D-Ala. 
The Senate must now wait for two days to vote on blocking the filibuster, which would re­quire 60 votes. That vote will come Friday and backers say it is possible a final passage vote could be taken then. 
Sen. William Proxmire, D­Wis., chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, said the Jt'ord substitute for loan guar­antee bills pending in both the House and Senate is the min­imum amount of assistance needed to prevent New York from defaulting. Ford had said 
Hostages escape from Dutch train 
BEILEN, The Netherlands (AP l -Thirteen of the esti­mated 72 hostages held by In­donesian gunmen aboard a !Jutch train sprinted to safety under cover of darkness Wl'dnesday night, a Justice Ministry official said. 
He said the group broke from the rear coach of the stranded train, evidently unguarded at thl' time, and ran 650 yards to police lines. 
About 150 police, army marksmen and marine com­mandos ringing the train were keeping their distance for fear of endangering the lives of hos­tages. 
The five hijackers -who are from a separatist-minded part of Indonesia called South Mo­lucca. the former Spice Islands --seized the four-coach local train Tuesday, killeci the engi­neer and another man and took the passengers hostage, offi­cials reported. Police said they attached explosives to one of the coaches. 
The bodies of the two dead 
men lay beside the tracks. 
In a televised speech, Dutch Justice Minister Dries van Agt declared that since the hijack­ers were responsible for two killings, they would not be per­mitted to leave the Nether­lands. The gunmen have de­manded to be flown out of the country. 
he would veto the House and York's obligations, should dis­Senate versions. close how they would benefit And Proxmire warned that if from Ford's bill. 
Ford's bill is not passed, noth­"We ought to know how much ing would prevent New York the taxpayers are benefitingfrom default. these banks," Byrd said. 
"We feel reasonably con­But Proxmire said the New vinced that if this legislation York banks are taking "a beat­does not become law by Dec. ing ... a loss, a very big loss" 
11, or a few days after that, on the fiscal crisis. nothing can prevent a bank­
Sen. Jacob K. Javits, R-N.Y., 
ruptcy of New York City." 
also told Byrd that many for­
Sen. Harry F. Byrd Jr., Ind­eign banks consider New York 
Va., said that the banks of New banks to be in jeopardy be­
York, which hold much of New cause they have taken New 
Butz to refuse position if PresidentFord is re-elected 
INDIANAPOLIS <AP> -U.S. Agriculture Secretary Earl Butz says he will refuse reap­pointment if President Ford is elected to a full term next year. 
"I have a commitment to the President to stay only through his term" ending in 1976, Butz said in an interview with In­dianapolis News reporter Frank Salzarulo, who accompanied him on a just-<:oncluded 19-day tour of eight countries. 
"I think he <Ford) respects that commitment," Butz added. "So do I." 
Butz, a former Purdue Uni­

versity agriculture dean who 
was appointed U.S. secretary 
by former President Richard 
M. Nixon in 1971, now is the senior member of Ford's cabi­net. 
"It has been hard work," he said. "I've worked harder these four years I've been secretary than ever before, but the re­wards have been great, too, and it's a fascinating ex­perience." 
Butz unsuccessfully sought the Republican nomination for governor in 1968, but he said he had no plans to run for public office when he leaves Washing-. ton. 
"The calendar is running out on me," he said. "I'm of the 1909 vintage. That means as we sit here talking, I'm 66 years old, and when this term ends, I'm going to come back to In­diana. I'm going to do some work at Purdue University, I'm going to do some writing, some lecturing. 
"I'm going to spend a little time with Mrs. Butz. She's a very charming girl. We've been married 38 years. She's had to raise our boys. She's had to be home a lot and I want to spend a little time with her before they put me away." 
The outspoken Butz, however said he would campaign "as ef~ fectively as I can" for Ford next year. 
• 

"I think he is the kind of indi-: vidual we need at the head of government these days, both in : the United States, and from the ., standpoint of the image he • projects to the world," he said • of Ford. • 
The agriculture secretary Ia-: beled "absolutely wrong" '• charges that his policies have • driven food prices up. 
• 

"Last year...80 per cent of • the increase in food prices oc-• curred after it left the farm," • he said. "The real culprit, in • most cases, is the husband of • the woman who complains • 
about food prices." 


INVITES YOU TO A 



WE-EXAM PARTY TONIGH 
5-9 P.M. $.25 BEERS MIXED DRINKS 2 FOR 1 HURRICANES $1.00 ALL NIGHT 
-p~B.ITA.NP DANCE... TILL.. 3:QO.AMl 
• : •
• 

1621 S. Bend Ave. -Behind "The Linebacker"
• -•
. . 
_. Open 10-9 Mon. -Sat. • 
•. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ~2fieS~ne • • • • e·ee • • el
............................ 
FIRST SHOP OF ITS KIND IN INDIANA 
SALES PROMOTIONAL PRODUCTS 
Budweiser® CL YDESOALE BUSCHe MICHELOB. A&Eagk• 
THOUSANDS OF ITEMS TO CHOOSE FROM: 
WALLPAPER • WALL PLAQUES PUB MIRRORS • "BUD" TELEPHONES FURNITURE • BEACH TOWELS • COOLERS • SHEETS & PILLOW CASES SKI CAPS • SCARVES • T-SHIRTS TIFFANY LAMPS • ASH TRAYS PLAYING CARDS ·TOTE BAGS SKI SWEATERS ·HATS
t 

SALT & PEPPER SHAKERS .J BEAN BAG CHAIRS 
ear(T e 
HASSOCKS • LAMPS ~· WOMEN'S SLACKS
v 

MEN'S SLACKS SHIRTS • JACKETS 
J 
York City bonds to help the city "This is an arrogant ap­avert default. 
proach," Allen said. Allen, who has threatened to Meanwhile, the Municipal As­filibuster the measure, said the sistance Corp., the state bodybill before the Senate was nev­
created to help the city solve 

er considered by either a House 
its fiscal problems, agreed to 

or Senate committee and he 
extend until Dec. 29 the dead­

said it lacked safeguards to 
line for exchanging city notes 

protect taxpayers. 
for MAC bonds. The extension 

"It's quite obvious we're fac­
had been sought by the Flush­

ing a steamroller procedure to ing National Bank, which is ram this bill through Con­
suing to block the exchange.

gress," Allen said. 
The swap was mandated by

He said there has been no 
the state legislature. Under it 

chance to shape or improve the 
individuals holding short term 

measure because the way it 
city notes either exchange them 

has been presented to Congress for the MAC issue or face a it comes down to a "take it or 
moratorium on payment of the 

leave proposition. the bonds. 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS ~ 
f()~V'r JEWELERS ~ ~--SINCE.1917;
(l 

Downtown South Bend • Town & Country Sh~pping C~ntf'r -~ Concord Mall, Elkhart 'Biockmonds, Niif!s .: 
1·1 fOI'I fOI'I fOI I fOI'I fOI'I fOI I fOI I fOa:l f01·1 fO• I 
SPECIAL 10% DISCOUNT ON AL MERCHANDISE TO NOTRE DAM & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 
•

Just when you'd given up hope. 
•


•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

The latest, greatest-looking, super-fitting selection of casual clothes by Faded Glory has arrived. At last. 
•
•

THE GENERAL STORE •
•
• 

CHAIRS • MUGS GLASSWARES BASKETBALLS CANDLES BAR STOOLS BLANKETS BANKS • STEINS 

PILLOWS· RUGS ® SERVING TRAYS ~ CAN HOLDERS ~~ 
PEWTER MUGS ?'~ •tt I' 
:~~~:Es~~:::Rs PO(ltN 
BELTS... 
ltd 
100 CENTER COMPLEX MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46544 259•0886 
ICE CHESTS FOOTBALLS FLASHLIGHTS COASTERS POOL CUES KEY RINGS LIGHTERS CARD TABLES WALL CLOCKS NAPKINS • • • AND MANY MORE ITEMS FROM WHICH TO CHOOSE 

STORE HOURS: 10:00 to 9:00 DAILY • SUNDAYS 12:00 to 6:00 
............................ 
*1.~J.QI2,~~ver
Founded November 3, 1966 

The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, cartoons and regular columns express the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Editorials: 283-1715 News: 213-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Business Manager Tom Modglin Advertising Manager Tom Whelan 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Terry Keeney  Editor-in-chief  
AI  Rutherford  Managing Editor  
Jim Eder  Executive Editor  
Pat Hanifin  Editorial Editor  
Ken Girouard  News Editor  
Bob Mader  Campus Editor  
Mary Janca  St. Mary's Editor  
Ken Bradford  Copy Editor  
Val Zurblis  Wire Editor  
Tom O'Neil  Features Editor  
Bill Brink  Sports Editor  
Chris Smith  Photo Editor  
Dan Sanchet  Senior Night Editor  


Who Is Kidding Whom? 
Yesterday the Academic Council did what they said they would never do: they produced a dishonest calendar. For years administrators, especially Fr. Burtchaell, have claimed they want an "honest calendar": one that does not encourage students to take extra days off. 
But it is obvious that if there is any day in the year students would likely take off it is the day after Thanksgiving. Students will reserve at least one set of cuts for that Friday even if they are staying on campus. The paucity of the reasons offered for the Council's action make it all the more farcical. 
During the Council meeting Fr. Hesburgh claimed that parents were complaining about the expense of bringing their children home twice in the semester. Fr. Hesburgh says he did not count how many letters he got from parents who would rather not have their children home at Thanksgiving. Even if many parents would not, they are under no compulsion to pay for the trip just because there is a break. Many students do choose to stay for break of their own 
accord. 

The new calendar will allow 70 days. The question of the magic number 70 was not debated at the meeting, so it is im­possible to say how much weight it had on the vote. In any case the student representatives were willing to com­promise on a Saturday class. 
It may be the hope of some Council members that, while students will cut Friday classes, the shortened break will prevent many of them from leaving early in the week. This is most unlikely. Most students could still afford to cut classes that week to get home, if they planned to go home at all. We would hope that no administrators would be so foolish as to try to pressure professors into holding tests merely to hold students here. 
The Great Calendar Controversy has dragged on for years, becoming more and more absurd. Yesterday's events raise it to a new height of absurdity. Who is kidding whom? 
America's Choices 
WASHINGTON--"Why," I cried the other night in despair, "out of a country of 240 million people can't we find an outstanding person to run for President?" 
"It's very simple," said Turn­bill, starting to write on a cocktail napkin. "There are 144 million people in the United States who are over 18 who are eligible to vote." 
"Right," I said. "But at the moment there are only 99 million registered voters." 
"Well, you would still think that we could find one person in 99 million." 
Turnbill asked the waiter for another cocktail napkin. 
"Out of this 99 million, 38 million are under 35 years of age and therefore ineligible to run for the Presidency." 
"That probably eliminates a lot of good people," I admitted. 
''Now 1 million were not born in this country so they can't run either." 
"That still leaves us with 60 million people to choose from." 
"Wait," said Turnbill, starting on his third napkin. "About half of this number, 30,456,782 to be exact, are women." 
"So?" 
"Well, you know the country isn't ready for a woman President for at least 20 years." 
"That long?"I said in sorrow. 
"Do you want facts or do you want to get sentimental?" "Just give me the facts," I told 
him.  
"This  leaves  us  roughly  29  
million he said.  presidential  prospects,"  

"Even that's enough to find an outstanding man for President," I told Turnbill. 
"But," he said, now writing on the tablecloth, "at least 3 million of the 29 million have a fear of flying. You can't have a President of the United Sates who is afraid to fly. It would be a sign of weakness to our adversaries.'' 
"All right, we're down to 26 million people to choose from." 
Turnbill took out a pocket computer. "We have to take off 2 million because their wives don't want to move to Washington. Then there are 2 million more who are in some sort of trouble with the IRS and couldn't stand an audit." 
"I must admit you're really cutting it down." 
Turnbill kept hitting the keys of the computer. "Then there are 12 million who are just about to get a divorce or are living with someone in what Middle America still calls 
'sin.,, "I forgot about them." "And you have to eliminate gay people." "You mean the country would never elect a gay person?" "They won't even let one serve in the Air Force," Turnbill said. 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 


Ch1ld born of a v1rgm. Divimty 1s always where you least expect toArt Buchwald find it. No one ever dreamed of looking for Divinity in the form of a tiny, helpless baby. Whoever heard of the charm of a reeking, 

Star of My Heart 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimaurice powers c.s. c. 
Students, your anticipation of the Christmas recess I share, for I have experienced the feverous mood while on our Lady's campus. Once, the beloved dean of chemistry, Dr. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., noted inventor of synthetic rubber, stopped two of us students outsi­de his laboratory two days prior to the Christmas holiday period, and with paternal advice said, "Boys, don't forget the central theme of your vacation. The Star of your heart; make Him that in your hearts on His anniversary." We pondered it as we returned to our hall. 
Again, the nativity season is with us to enrapture us with its message of joy, its tranquillity of beauty like the recurring theme of a great symphony of love. The history ofthis treasured moment brings a legacy of littleness, of deep humility, and the radiance of an angelic choir echoing the music of the spheres: 'Glory to God in the highest." The miracle of the throne room in a stable at Bethlehem appalls us. 
To think that the first Christmas message announcing the birth of a little Babe drifted out over the world on the stillness of an evening breeze one thoussand years before He was born; a prophetheralding this anomaly: 
"While all things were in quiet silence, and the night was in the midst of its course, the Almighty leapt down from the Royal Throne and dwelt amongst us.... "(Wisdom xviii, 14) 
~he prophetic.ec~o b~c~~e ~reality; 
the birth of an Infant, a 
"So where are we now?" 
Turnbill kept hitting the com­

puter. "We're down to 9 million." 
"That still is a lot to pick from." 
"Not exactly. There are at 

least 2 million who could never 
pass an FBI security check 
because they belonged to some 
left-wing organization or were 
involved some way with Wa­
tergate." 
"All right, so you have 7 million 

left. Can't we find one good man in 7 
million?" 
"We could except that the 

country will never accept a 
President who has had a mental 
disorder or has been treated by a 
psychiatrist.'' 
"And 7 million people in this 

country have been treated by 
psychiatrists?'' 
"Not 7 million," Turnbill said. 

"There have been only 6,999,987 
who have had psychiatric treat­
ment." 
"So that leaves us with Ford, Reagan, Humphrey, Wallace, Carter, Jackson, Bentsen, Bayh, Shapp, Udall, Harris, Sanford and Shriver," I said. 
Turnbill rechecked his figures. "That's all there is. I'm sorry a bout that." 
"Don't be sorry," I told Turnbill. "At least you're the first guy who ever explained it to me." 
uncouth stable until it happened one night, up the climbing hillsides of Judea, under the frozen music of the stars,-that night when the wedding between heaven and earth was consummated on the altar of Mary's virginal body and she gave birth to a King? The most startling fact is that He Who created the fiery ball of the sun in the heavens would first be warmed by the breathe of oxen. That He Who fashioned the starry heavens as a canopy of beauty would t-c covered instead by the roof of a cave, under the floor of the V':l!dd. Instead of clarion trumpets heralding the birth of a royal son in a gilded palace, angelic choirs would chant the symphony of the stars: "Glory to God in the highest." He Who created the world was homeless in the world that He had made. "There was no room in the inn." There was room for proud Roman centurions with eagles on their crests, room for the dark-eyed, alluring daughters of rich eastern merchants; room for barter, trade, revelry, but no room for a virgin bearing a child. But humble, unlettered shepherds tending their flocks by night, and wise men, Magi, from the distant east were led by angels to come over to Bethlehem to adore a new­born Infant in a rude creche. 
The miracle of Christmas is a concerto of littleness, of love and adoration which prompts a sensitive charity, aboundless goodwill towards others; the exchange of gifts from the heart. Im­mediately, we remember the legacy of love, a heritage of mutual love, the basis of the miracle. 
This is the hour to which all hours lead. A table will be spread with fine, white linen. Bread, wine and water will be set out. A great book will stand from which will be read the prayer and history of this day. Tapers will be lighted. We will eat by candlelight at a new manger called an altar. You and I will be His guests. Within the throneroom of a new Bethlehem there will be reverence and adoration. We will share in history the aisles with the first shepherds, watch in spirit the gifted Magi offer their gifts and ours, honoring His coming again to us on an altar of dedication. Suddenly the spirit of those prophetic words return: "When all things were in quiet silence and the night was in the midst of its course •..''. At once each of us will find his brother fair, and like a little child therein, our hearts shall find new birth and wake no more to sin. The Infant in His Real Presence -The Star of my heart. 

Thursday, Decembe~ 4, 1975 the observer 7


P.O. Box Q 
job. Now ND fans and alumni can show their class in their support of him. Now they can show up the bloodsuckers in Green Bay who made pro football a religion, and in 
Can Dan 
their rites, sacrificed the family dog. At least here, football is in its proper perspective." Time is the test of any coach. A fair ac­counting of Coach Devine would be 
Ut>ar Editor: four years time, so he could have a Under Coach Devine, football at whole team geared under his N.D. has taken a turn for the system. Then, not now, would be a worse. Perhaps some of Devine's fair time to critically look at his personal qualities are beginning to oerformance. 
lHECIG'>-R

show on the field: being late for 
ISNT.
But more than whether Danpractice, failure to make the team 

\\8<1\11!.:7

'Jevine stays or not, I reallybus for the Air Force game, being 
~~f('
question the veracity of mytotally unprepared for the running preceding statements. I don'tof Pitt's Tony Dorsett, etc. 
think football is in its proper!low can players that played and perspective anymore. I onlyachieved so well under Ara play so graduated in '74, so don't feel thatlittle under Devine? I am talking divorced from the reality of theabout players such as Parise, 
Doherty, Alloco, and Payne. place. When we were there, the basic requirement to "love one's British occupation in the Holylast thing we wanted to be known
Surely their playing ability has not neighbor" Land. The result of Zionism has Here's 
declined so much in one year. was as a "football factory". It was It has recently come to our at­been the displacement of millions Devine has already accomplished great to have it, but there was tention that the new group, the of Palestians and 27 years of certain things that Ara never did: pride in defeat as well. Dancin' Irish, has been limited in perpetual crisis in that corner of
Notre Dame prides itself on being membership to only Notre Dame
for example, losing three regular the world. to You 
a Catholic University. It is time we women.
season games and also losing two Israel's apologists are quick to games at home. Although took the message to home. Sports It is true that St. Mary's College is make as much as they can out of Dear Editor:
is great, but the world doesn't live attempting to assert her position
Devine's record is 8-3, it very any hostile thought or deed. We After what has been said in recent 
or die if ND isn't no. 1. It's almost 
easily could have been 4-7 if it had as an independent women's are forever witnessing weeks about Notre Dame Students 
impossible to tell friends that ND college. It is also true that St.
not been for some very big plays by "humanitarian" rallies against and their spirit, it is our pleasure to
isn't a football factory when Mary's is included in the com­
certain individuals, Bradley Palestinian guerillas and anti­thank all of you for making the 50 
rumors for a coach's dismissal
(Purdue), Montana(Air Force and munity which includes the two Zionism. Tose who disagree with + 12 Seminar held on November 
come after a 7-3 season. It's also campuses. We all live and work
North Carolina) and an anxious Israel's policies are labeled anti­21, 22, and 23 a success. As we
time to tell all the alumni, real or together to make the word
Navy lineman that jumped offsides Semetic Nazis. (Incidentally, brought the participants to the
subway, to cool it. Their following "community" worth its weight.
at a crucial time. Arabs are also Semites.) airport after the conference,
is important, but they too need to The co-ex program of classes
I feel that the coaching position at What is curious is that we do not particularly those who were 
N. D. demands a dynamic per­recognize the place of football, and between our two campuses allows see these very same housed on campus, the praise
their place in determining it.
sonality which Devine is not nor us to ta.ke the best ad~a.ntage o~ thl' "humanitarians" protesting the lavished upon the student body and will ever be. I feel that a coaching educational opportumhes available filthy conditions in Palestinian the Notre Dame community as a
Michael II. Maguire

change should be made and in both ~chools. We all work refugee camps that have been whole was unanimous and well­
Class of '74

quickly before we have a repeat of together m the many clubs and festering disease and bitterness for deserved. What were some of the the Joe Kuharich era. I suggest volunteer organizations that tie us over a quarter century. There gestures of hospitality~ that Ara be brought back or to South Bend. We are all here to arises no "unanimous con­First of all, Tim Cawley and 
(perhaps the job be offered to live with and help each other! demnation" in the West when Charlie Moran with a host of
Wither 

another QUALIFIED coach. Why, then, are St. Mary's women Israel decides to napalm one or student "chauffeurs" coordinated I sincerely hope that the continuallY. being excluded? two of these camps as an act of the Seminar's "Quickie" to University Administration will The lone cheerleader from .st. retaliation. Arab children are not transport 207 people and their take steps to rectify this situation Mary's, and n?~ o~r exclusiOn as worthy of outraged headlines as baggage from Michiana Regional that now exists. fr?m the Dancm lnsh are ~nly are Israeli children. Lastly, where Airport to their accomodations in Dt•ar Editor: rumor examples ?f our os.tracism is the wave of protest from these South Bend. After the participants Patrick Kl'l.'ley fro'? .our commumty· Feelmgs are "humanitarians" to stop Israel arrived at Notre Dame, 63 students def1mtely tense betwee~ the t~o from manipulating the internal from 48 states and the Trust. 
Dante? 
We would like to call the at­groups of women ass.ociated With affairs of her neighbors as she has Territories of Puerto Rico and thetention of the university com­the ND-SMC commumty. done during the civil conflicts in Mariana Islands were housed inmunity to the recent theft of the

Devine . We should learn to Jordan, Iraq and now rather rooms arranged for by Debbie
statue of Dante Alighieri from the 
work ~1th eac~ other, to play our dearly in Lebanon? Kenny and John Lonsberg. Specialfourth floor of the Memorial 
part In. makmg the ND-S~C Israel may well have a right to the of
Library. The Florentine has been thanks to residents 
commumty. an example o~ the kmd exist but it is open to question Cavanaugh, Farley, Fisher, Holyremoved to the confines of the
Defended 
of commumty we would hke to see has to Cross, Sorin, and Walsh for their
Mediaeval Institute, an exile in whether she a right the 
comparison to Ravenna the rest of. the world copy· Sinai, the Golan Heights, the West hospitality. The Holy Cross Hogs,
which As maturmg men a_nd women, we Bnk or even Jerusalem which is led by Joe Corpora and J.P.

must seem like Paradise.
lh•ar Editor: should get togeth~r ~~ peace to re-and has been a predominantly Russell, even designed signs toWhile the abduction of the statue 
I see by the latest television and evaluate ou~ pnonhes. Do we Arab city for 2,000 years. give their guests a special
is certainly consistent with the
newspaper releases that Notre want to mirror the hate and welcome. Sr. Jean Lenz and SueInstitute's reliance on the plastic
Dame is tuning up for entry into th­prejudice of the world we care of the
are Swiatek took specialand visual rather than literary
e National Football League. That seeking to change, or do we want to Salaam and Sholom, Seminar participants who stayed
arts, their spiritual and in­
must be the reason for all the learn to cooperate, on a small Stephen R. Judge in the Farley Motel.
tellectual claim on Dante is ob­
rumors and innuendos being raised scale, to begin that change right There are also many instances
scure: the poet's anti-
against Coach Dan Devine, after a here? Is the exclusion of St. 
which especially impressed theclericalism and his use of an

8-3 record. Considering that most Mary's women from Notre Dame students and administrators fromelegant vernacular ill accord with
colleges would be ecstatic with organizations necessary? 
the guest universities. Forthe monkish spirit of the seventh

such a record, such rumors seem Please, let's learn to live together, example, one student on the way to
Thanksgiving
floor.
not only repugnant, but stupid. loving all the tradition our schools or from class stopped to help one of 
If they ever get their noses out of 

Ponder, if will, the have made together, and work to
you on the participants carry her baggage 
the hagiography up there long
situation Coach Devine has come continue the tradition of our to the Farley Motel. Also, guests
enough to actually read the Divine 
Thanks
into. He is following a legend. He beloved Notre Dame-St. Mary's who might have spent the night on 
also has the legend's players, Comedy, they will find a sad communitv! the floor were placed in beds which means that except for the surprise awaiting them in Canto 
vacated by students headed home
Karen Bic.kel

freshmen, they are used to a dif­XXV of the Inferno, wherein Dante 
for Thanksgiving. Directions wereValerie Homola Dear Editor:

ferent system of coaching, plays, describes the particular punish­always offered graciously and
Pam Delaggelo

etc. Now if you take into mind the ments reserved for thieves in the tours were organized as soon as the
Sandy Colson

fact that it takes NFL teams a good sevength bowge of the eighth circle I would like to thank all who guests were settled. Participants
Jan Dunkin 

year to really get accustomed to of Hell. contributed to the success of Da­were invited to many campus
rby's Thanksgiving Day party,
running a new coach's plays, and parties and the Ombudsman
Stephen L. Trainor especially Student Affairs, Student
executing them, then what Coach reception, organized by Bridget
Gail Herndon Body Government, the Om­
Devine has accomplished is all the O'Donnell, gave everyone at­
Israeli

Linn M. Sinnott budsmen, the Knights of Colum­
more remarkable. tending the seminar a chance to
Margaret Grounds bus, Campus Ministry, the Flanner 
Dan Devine really needs no meet informally on Friday night. 
Gregory Marshall Hall government, the students who
defense. His record speaks for it­In the Senior Bar students were
Nicholas A. Talarico, Jr. contributed money, and friends
self. He has one of the highest surprisingly coherent, some even
and parents who mailed in checks.
Colonialists
winning percentages among active joined our guests for pizza in South
Over eight hundred dollars was
coaches, and the brunt of this was Bend.
collected; the money that was left
achieved at Missouri where he, Although it would be difficult to
SMC: Equal 

over will be used, hopefully, for a
quite honestly, faced far sterner near Editor: name all the students who wen·
small Christmas eggnog party at
seasons than the Irish have under instrumental in making the
Darby's on December 14.
Ara. lie made the Big Eight more In r:esponse to Michael J. weekend successful, we would lik(' than just a Big Two, something the Grossman's letter ofNovember 18 to especially thank Stan Cardenas. 
Treatment 

Big Ten has not lately done. None calling on the campus to " ... join in I would like to thank all the Mike Casey, Matt Cockrell. of this is meant to take away from l>t>ar Editor: the nearly unanimous con­students who helped out, and all th­Melanie Connell, Mike Fitzsim Ara's accomplishments. But he is We are all human beings who demnation" of the U.N. resolution e guests who came. I would especi­mons ,Ken Girouard, Leo uuar gone, and comparing Devine to have come to this Christian on Zionism, I would personally like ally like to thank Steve Lucero, 'neir, Joan McDermott, Vinet Parseghian is as sensible as community to learn to become to express the views of those of us who managed the affair, while I Moschella, Darlene Palma, Patt1 comparing Parseghian to Rockne. better, both mentally and who do not share in this near was off on a singing tour with the Tack, Chip Turner, T .J. HughesThere is no real purpose served. physically. We are all here to help unanimity. Glee Club, and Darby O'Gill, Bob Mader and the Observer crew As a Notre Dame alumnus and a each other to prepare for the Israel is an essentially Western sadly enough, was experiencing Chris Smith, the proprietors ot resident of Missouri most of my outside world. Why, then, at a time culture and economy transplanted the austerities of a local kennel. Senior Bar and the entire Notrt life, I was quite happy to hear of when people should strive for Dame Student Body. One('
in the Middle East. To the Arabs 
his appointment as coach. I again ND is number one.
peace among themselves, is it this is a very detestable kind of 
thought to myself: "Now he'll get necessary for further attempts to colonialism. For the Arab, Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
Ed Byrae, SB a chance to prove himself at a top 

be made to undermine the very Zionism is just as unacceptable as University Chaplain Diane Mcen 
I ER '.. IT'S SUPftlSED ID SUCK YOUR BRAINS OUT AND ll-IEN I TAKE 1HEM &\CK "ID WASHINGlDN,AND...'' 


~----~~~----------------------­
RFK authorized wiretaps _on private citizens 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The late Atty Gen. Robert F. Ken­nedy approved FBI wiretaps on two newsmen and four govern­ment employes as well as on civil rights leader Martin Lu­ther King, the Senate in­telligence committee was told today. 
Committee counsel John El­liff said the taps as well as similar wiretaps on the home telephones of top aides to Presi­dent Franklin D. Roosevelt "were undoubtedly precedents 
I 
J. Edgar Hoover had in mind" when he carried out orders from the Nixon White House to install wiretaps on newsmen and government officials. 
Ford improves 
China relations
t 
PEKING <APJ -President Ford told the final session of
~ 
the Peking summit Thursday that American-Chinese rela­
! t 
tions have "been strengthened by the visit" and that the re­sults "can be meaningful in the months ahead." 
I 
Facing the visiting President across a conference table in the Great Hall of the People, Vice­Premier Teng Hsiao-ping said, "I agree with that." 
As the windup session began, it appeared that both Ford and the Chinese leader were aiming their remarks more at a hand­ful of newsmen present than at each other. 
The President began by de­scribing his three days of con­ferences here as "beneficial, very friendly and I think very constructive." He said he re­garded the results as "very sig­nificant.'' 
Teng then declared the con­ferees were going to "set a new style" by foregoing a confer­ence-ending communique. Said Teng: 
"We think the importance lies in the visit itself .. . We don't think the importance liest in such superficial things as a communique."
l 
Ford's chief spokesman, Ron Nessen, told newsmen Wednes­
t 
day a communique was not necessary to "successfully ac­
I t complish the purpose of the meeting." He added that "the atmos­phere of the meeting has been \'ery good." However, there has been no announcement of any specific agreement or proposal discussed. 
Nessen's remarks focussed attention on what the President and Teng would say at the final state banquet Thursday, hosted by the Americans. Their toasts were expected to serve as sub­stitutes for a conference-ending statement. 
Those wiretaps were installed of classified information to the in 1969 on the telephones of 17 press. reporters and government offi­In related developments: Cials, including former White -Atty. Gen. Edward H. Levi House aide Morton Halperin, said in an interview he has not who has filed a lawsuit challen­ruled out disciplinary action ing the legality of the action. against FBI agents involved in Halperin's phone was tapped a campaign of harassment for 21 months. against King. 
The taps were installed in an Levi said the attempt to dis­attempt to stop suspected leaks credit King, including a letter 
Wilson explains tectonics 
(continued from page 1 
demonstrated the newer theory of plate tectonics with a ten-minute film. He said there is a continuous 47,000 mile long undersea chain of ridges that meander about the entire globe. 
These mid-ocean ridges are formed by the plates, which are areas of hot material in the earth's core which has chilled to hardness, Wilson said. Because the interior of the earth is moving at the same time, this motion causes the for­mation of the ridges while the material is still hot. 
Wilson explained further, "The plates grow and separate in a constant restless motion." He continued, "They separate along the ocean ridges and come together at mountain ridges." 
According to Wilson's in­vestigations, millions of years ago, these plates collided along with the boundaries of continental land areas. The collisions caused the undersea ridges to uplift, resulting in the formation of such mountain ranges as the Himalayas, Alps and Andes. 
Wilson said one explanation for the movement and subsequent mountain formation is the flow of 
Break announced 
(continued from page 1) 
reappointment, promotion and tenure be supplied if the affected faculty member so requested. The Council adjourned before taking a vote. 
Elected by the Council to its 1975­76 executive committee were D. James Massey, Freimann professor of electrical engineering; Dr. Gerald Jones, professor of physics; Rev. Ernan McMullin, professor of philosophy; Dr. Thomas Swartz, associate professor of economics, and Dr. Robert Gordon, vice-president for advanced study. 
Appointed to the committee by Fr. Hesburgh were Gassman, who had tied in balloting with Dr. Gordon, and Dr. Robert W. Williamson, associate professor of accountancy. Hesburgh said he would name a third appointee at a later date. 
The Council cast ballots just before adjourning to elect five faculty and one student who will serve on the Committee to Review the Provost as provided for in the Academic Manual. Hesburgh said results would be announced later 

S.G. DISCOUNT FLIGHTS REG. PRICE OUR PRICE DATE BALTIMORE 136 94.73 12-20 BUFFALO 126 95.73 12-21· 12-20HARTFORD 144 116.10 LOS ANGELES 312 203.73 12-21 NEWARK 138 108.73 12-20,2~ NEW YORK 138 108.73 12-20,21 PITTSBURGH 88 75.73 12-20 D.C. 120 97.73 12-20,21 PHILADELPHIA 130 103.73 12-20 All flights leave from Indianapolis Airport Price includes bus to and from Indianapolis. Sign for tickets at 2nd floor LaFortune Ticket Office Wed-Fri 1:00-4:00 pm.  

REGAL 
LOUNGE & LANES 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT THIS WEEKEND 
TONIGHT IS l STUDENT NIGHT\ 
BOWLING ONLY soc 
WITH ND-SMC 1.0. 1 
I 

OPEN BOWLING 
THIS SAT. & SUN. AFTER 8:30 P.M. 1121 WEST 8th ST. -MISHAWAKA­
PHONE 

ice over the surface of the earth. 
"The ice only melted 20,000 years 
ago, and caused a tremendous load 
on the surface because the ice was 
two miles thick," Wilson said. 
"After being depressed under the 
weight of the ice there was a ris3 in 
the earth's surface--about five feel 
per century." 
Earthquakes explained 

Earthquakes and faults are caused by a separation in the plate structure, Wilson said. "The plates break apart in some places and overlap in other places, causing earthquakes from the underneath layers of the earth," he stated. 
After studying the frequency and location of earthquakes, S"cientists discovered that 90 percent of all quakes occur along a few narrow belts, which are the known faults and ridges on the earth's surface, Wilson noted. 
The shallow earthquakes like those along the San Andreas fault, are simply two plates grinding together. Really damaging quakes are the result of th sudden release of stress that accumulates if plates happen to lock together. 
Wilson concluded by saying plate tectonics as a scientific revolution has made geology a "new and more exciting subject." 
Wilson has been in the field of geophysics since graduating from the University of Toronto in 1930. After receiving an MA and a Doctor of Science from Cambridge University, he received his PhD from Princeton in 1936. For the past 28 years, Wilson has lectured at the University of Toronto, and is presently the_ Treasurer of the Ontario Science •Center. 
Bus sponsored by Philly Club 
The ND Philadelphia Club will sponsor a chartered bus to Philadelphia leaving Friday, D­cember 19 and returning January 
12. The price for round trip is $54. To make reservations call Tim Walsh at 1062 or John Gray at 1061 before Friday, December 12. 
which King reportedly took as a suicide suggestion, "comes under the heading of out­rageous." 
-Charles E. Koen, a Midwest black militant leader, said in a telephone interview that Hoo­ver, the late director of the FBI, was a victim of his own hatred. 
FBI documents show Hoover approved a plan to discredit Koen, now a minister in Cairo, Ill., with anonynous letters ac­cusing him of adultery and of being a bureau informant. 
Koen said his wife received one of the letters. "They de­cided. that wrecking of my mar­riage would derail me from my movement activities," he said. "I was able to save my mar­riage, but it was the strangest kind of situation " 
"AN IMPRESSIVE 
CHRISTMAS PRESENT 
FOR ONLY $1" 

Tix available at programming office-St. Mary's 284-4176 
Century Center Presents: ~ 

NUREYEV'S 'OONQUIX0TE' 
ouoou NUUYEV'S -·"DON QUIXCYfE"-RUDOLF NUREYEV ROBERT HELPMANN LUCETTE ALDOUS-~~~ 
PERFORMANCES FEB. 1st O'LAUGHLIN AUD. 
Always Unlimited Free Parking
I(t) >{V,){j I~J W,\'+1 t~j I I 
1 Mile North of NOTRE DAME on U.S. 31 North Just South of NORTH VILLAGE MALL • (219) 277-1522 
NOW! 
ENDS THURS. 
D 
ForYour Pleasure... 
JQIJ1!!I. 
~; ~' H~ P G \-HAl·~\~~~~ Pro<ht!-:•~n­ROO$l·E~ ~ 
(........ 1M Locbr) 

AT 7:00 9:10 P. 

AT 6:45 9:25 P. M. COMING FRI.-"THE OTHER SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN" FRI. -SAT.-MIDNITE MADNESS SHOW! 


AT EXACTLY MIDNITE REDUCED PRICE! 

Thursday, December 4, 1975 the observer 
•

Israeli air raid claims I00 lives ln Lebanon 
The Middle East heated up Wednesday in the wake of an Israeli air raid on Lebanon that Lebanese police say killed more than 100 Palestinians. 
Egypt charged that Israel had violated the spirit of troop disengagement agreements, Palestinian guerrillas promised quick reprisals and the Vatican called the raid an "in­admissible gesture of vio­lence." 
Members of the U.N. Security Council scheduled private con­sultations in New York on a re­quest by Lebanon and Egypt for an urgent meeting to take up charges of Israeli aggres­sion. Egypt asked that the Pal­estine Liberation Organization be allowed to participate in the meeting. 
The Palestine guerrilla com­mand in Beirut also charged that Israeli air raids on Leba­non are condoned by the United States to counter Palestinian diplomatic victories at the United Nations. 

"We ask world opinion and all international establishments to condemn this savage crime which. was agreed on by th~ Amertcan administration "said Majid Abu Sharar, infor~ation director of the PLO. "It was carried out with American planes, American bombs and pilots trained by the American 
military." In Washington, a State De­partment spokesman said the United States deplores the con­tinuing "cycle of violence and counterviolence" because it hinders efforts for permanent peace. 
Spokesman John Trattner said violence "creates a cli­mate of bitterness not con­ducive to the ongoing search for peace." 
Sen. George McGovern, D­S.D., -chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations subcom­mittee on the Middle East, de­scribed the Israeli attack as "a temper tantrum designed to punish the Palestinians because 
Rail strike maybe avoided 
WASHINGTON <APl -Fed­l'ral mediators won promises Wednesday night that railway union leaders would not call a nationwide railroad strike early Thursday as long as progress continued in contract negotia­tions. 
This diminished the possi­bility of a crippling rail shut­down which had been threat­ened to begin at 6 a.m. Thurs­day by four shopcraft unions. 
"The unions gave me the as­surance this evening there would not be any strike call as long as there was good faith negotiating going on and every effort to arrive at an agree­ment," said W.J. Usery Jr., the chief federal mediator. 
Usery won the assurances only hours after union leaders 
Tanker ruptures, driver perishes 
LAPORTE, Ind. <APl -A tanker loader loaded with a toxic and highly flammable chemical overturned and rup­tured on the Indiana Toll Road today. police said. 
Authorities said the driver of the truck as was dead, but his body was pinned in the cab. 
Indiana State Police Sgt. John Sigel said the chemical was believed to be acetyl ke­tene. The leak was described as minor. 
A 10-mile segment of the northern Indiana highway was closed between the Michigan City and LaPorte exits, and au­
thorities  sealed  off  the  area  
within  a  500-foot  radius  of  the  
accident.  

The tanker belonged to Le­man Tank Lines of Ohio, police said. 
issued a harsh statement accus­ing management of stalling and warned "we are headed for the strike. deadline." 
Usery told reporters that there had been a near meeting of minds on several of the dis­puted issues and that he hoped to work out contract language both sides could agree on. 

Earlier the chief union ne­gotiator, James Yost, had said it was up to management to move toward a settlement and unless there was some action a strike would take place. 
Soviets honor pact 
WASHINGTON <APl There is no evidence the Soviet Union has violated the strategic arms limitation agreement and statements that such evidence was withheld from President I<'ord are "preposterous," a State Department spokesman said today. 
John H. Trattner, who nodded in assent when asked whether he was speaking for Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, told reporters: "We have no evidence that there have been any violations of the SALT I agreement." 
Former Chief of Naval Oper­ations Elmo R. Zumwalt has told the House intelligence com­mittee the Sviets have turned strategic arms limitation talks into a "grotesque mockery" and that information outlining Russian violations was being withheld from the President. 
Zumwalt told the committee Tuesday that Ford has not mastered details of the arms limitation agreement on his own and that Kissinger has been less than candid in ex­plaining violations to the Presi­dent. 
Blindness tested at SMC 
Three St. Mary's students pretended to be blind for one week in a Special Education class ex­periment, conducted several weeks ago. 
Laurie Maloney, Cindy Schirack and Claire Hatch conducted their experiment under the directionof Katie Komasinski, Special Education instructor. 
The purpose of the simulation experiment was to give an idea of what blindness is really like. The students wore blinders over their eyes and carried canes. 
The 'blind' students conducted the experiment at all times except during classes. 
"It was reallv frustrating," 

Maloney said. "You were never sure if people were paying at­
tention when you spoke." All three students agreed that if they were actually blind that they would try to live as normal a life as
po~~i~~iggest difficulty, according to Maloney, was mealtime, because of the lines and the diffi­culty of finding food. As the week went on all students found in­creasing use of their other senses. The class has done other simulation experiments, such as wheelchair use and lell restraints. 
they were invited by the U.N. Security Council to participate 
in  the  UN  debate  next  
January."  
Lebanese  police  said  more  

than 150 persons were wounded in addition to those killed in the attacks Tuesday on refugee camps and guerrilla bases in northern and southern Lebanon. The PLO said more than half of the victims were women and children. 
Israel repeated an earlier government statement that the planes had hit a number of bases belonging to "various ter­rorist organizations" and did not comment on Lebanese re­ports that they had hit civilian settlements. 
Abu Sharar, in a news confer­ence in Beirut, said the guer­rilla leadership held a major strategy meeting and agreed on "a new plan to escalate strikes inside Israel." 
Since the begimdng of the year, PLO leader Yasir Arafat has been calling 1975 the "year of escalation," but Abu Sharar said, "This is something new. You shall soon see the results of this new plan." 
Guerrillas in south Lebanon launched night-long rocket bar­rages at Israeli border settle­ments after the raid, claiming they inflicted "heavy damage 
and casualties."  Israel  said  two  
villagers  were  slightly  wounded  
in  the  roc~et  attacks  



·Q~---··· 
loreign-0. 
)Parts & accessories for imported can. ~~ for all makes at lowest prices.
Re1ion•l pistrobutor 
************************* 
:For ND Students, Faculty & Statf-: lt-10 percent discoun~ with I D & * :pur chase of $10 or more. ! 
************************~ 
1 Groove Tube 7 ,9,11 
Woman Under the Influence, 8 IJ()ile.-tl()Use r=lix 
TWIN THEATRES-100 CENTER-MISHAWAKA-255-9575 
~.................................+~­
..

! THE SMC & NO JUNIOR * 
: CLASSES PRESENT ! Jt-Hr" nny HOUR A T 
~ n.rr
* 
* 

* KJ JBlr"K'S 
: u~ ../""l !Jt-THIS FRIDAY, DEC. 5, 3:00-6:00 : ~ "LAST HAPPY HOUR 
Jt-· Jt­
* 

()p Tl-JP ~PMP~ffiR" 
,........~~~tnl•••••••-­
:·~·:·:·:-:···:s····:·:·:·:·:·:·:·=~~:..:..::;...;_..;_~l).~·;:;::;;::«~~-=s;;;·:~:.-:::::.-::::;.o/-:;-::~::;:.:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:~:e:·:-:·::::--:::··:-:·:·:~ 
.lw ...........~--~~-·-·····_·..-~:···~ .~--~. 
: •\, ... :'. 
' ;~·­
. .,, .. 
Ik 
l~~: 
* 
! * 
:
* 
! 
~
* 
!Jt­

-
: 
Jt­
: 
:
* 
*
* 

. -·-·-· ~ ~t·l·-·-~-·-..~~....w *
..... ... -~-----,····-~­
~ 
:::•. 

VI• ~ ::·: 
~ I 
APARTMENTS1~il 
INOW RENTING FO~-SECOND SEMESTER!! I 
J.I·FULLY FURNISHED ONE AND TWO BEDROOM APTsll 1\~~-SPECIAL 5 MONTH LEASES ARE AVAILABLE ~~\ ~:·INDOOR POOL WILL BE COMPLETED BY FIRST ~: 
J OF THE YEAR 
I 

~-NEW SECURITY LOCKS HAVE BEEN INSTALLED i -NIGHTIME SECURITY GUARD ON DUTY . -24 H~. MAINTENANCE 

-....--::~ --~ __ ......._..._ .... .,......, -~·-­
.*iii.ZZ 


-COUPON­


GRAND OPENING 
$5.00 OFF JEANS 
FREE BULOVA ACCUTRON 
WITH COUPON 
WATCH DRAWING 
TOWN &-COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER STORE
-SIGN UP NOW ­
I( 
Coupon good thru -20% OFF on all Turquoise Jewelry ~ DEC. 19th 
ccn s 

-20% OFF on all Diamond and Opal Jewelry · men's shop, inc. 
-15% OFF on all clocks 
BETHEL
-FREE Accuracy test of your watch 
BOOKSTORES 
-Join our earring & ring club (Buy 5 and get one free) ASK FOR DETAilS 
HIRTH'S HOUSE OF TIME 
919 McKinley Hwy. College Square 
(Across from Town & Country) 
MISHAWAKA Phone 255 -3817 
CARD t~ BOOKS ~~ MAGAZINE . ·UlJ~ ART SUPPLIES
0:: ~ 
. MACRAME BEADSLlJ ~~M [!4~-~ JUTE-WAXED LINE
.~

dJ~~~j~ ·, NOVELTIES 0 PEN College Square, Mishawaka 0 PEN 
·~ ~··

~ 
~~~ ..._ 2340 miracle lane 10-9 Acros~ from Town & Country 10-6 town & country ~ · mishawaka indiana 46544 
Shopptng Center 259-5288 shoppmg center _ •
z 219 I 256-0111 MON.-FRI. SAT. f--4 LlJ 
<r: 
u

-CfJ Come You Fightin' IrishLLl 
0::: > 

0 f--4 0:: TO TOWN &COUNTRY 
CfJ ~ 

z ·FOR YOUR FAVORITE
LLl 
....... ~~ 
...
tJ. 



CfJ z 0 WINES-LIQUORS
LLl 

LLl Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM
j (.;) 
:t 

f--4 <J LIQUOR • WINE 
Q.. 

10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC 1.0. 
0 :t z

CfJ BEER •BEST PRICE IN TOWN
~ 

VOLUME DISCOUNT
0 

FREE DELIVERY
~ 
FREE DELIVERY

AT THE ORNER OF 
McKINLEY AND HICKORY 

•• • • • • -~ -..;: --.1. -----• • • ~I 
' '


Thursday, December 4, 1975 the observer 1 1 
Scare tactics 
End to Saturday mail delivery threatened 
Wilson, chairman of a HouseWASHINGTON !APl -The post office subcommittee, said,
chairman of a House subcom­"Either you cannot forecast
mittee said Wednesday that your operating conditions four­Post master General Benjamin and-a-half months in the futureF. Bailar is using reprehensible or you are again playing gamesscare tactics in threatening to with the Congress."
end Saturday mail delivery. 
He noted that postmasters 
Hep. Charles H. Wilson, 0-general traditionally have Calif., reminded Bailar of his threatened labor cutbacks and statement four-and·a-half delivery curtailments when months ago that "we are not they wanted more money. considering any reductions in Wilson said the Saturday cut­service. I think the American off threat "is but one example people want the kind of postal of what I believe to be an in­service that they are getting -creasing number of inconsist­that is, six days a week." encies in your public state-
Zavored
J. ~


Java drinkers 
LONDON <APl -The 63-na­tion International Coffee Organ­ization approved on Wednesday a world coffee pact that for the first time includes concern about the price of a cup of cof­fee to the consumer in times of shortage and high prices. 
Two previous world agree­ments were mainly aimed at shoring up the price of coffee beans to give exporting nations, all developing countries, higher income and assistance in devel­oping their emerging econo­mies. 
The new International Coffee Agreement suspends the price supporting export quotas every time a crop failure or other production crisis creates a shortage and causes prices to spiral. With quotas lifted, pro­ducing countries would compete without restrictions and even­tually this would presumably bring prices down again, to the benefit of the coffee drinker. 
When it becomes effective on Oct. I next year, the pact will operate without the quotas as long as the present world coffee shortage lasts. 
Once the shortage is over, the quotas become effective to in­sure that prices don't fall low enough to threaten the jobs of millions of coffee workers and push exporters and govern­ments to bankruptcy. 
The agreement, hammered out in negotiations that opened in London on Nov. 3, does not try to lower now or within the next three years the present high level of coffee prices. Ex· perts said it is not possible be fore three years to make up the shortage caused last July by a frost that killed 90 per cent of 
Club sponsors 
I •

women s sem1na 
A seminar entitled "Interview 
Management For Women" will be 
held tonight at 7:30 in the board 
room of Haues-Healy Center. The 
seminar is being sponsored by the 
Management club. 
The seminar, which will be moderated by Finance Instructor Sophie Korczyk, will focus on job search concerns and problems encountered by the woman job applicant. Techniques for more effective management of the in­terview and selection processes will also be discussed. 
Participants in th seminar and 
their topics include: Kathy 
Cekanski, deputy city attorney for 
South Bend, who will speak on 
"Legal aspects of the Job Search"; 
Mary Clare McCabe, director of 
student development, speaking on 
"Interviewing Psychology for 
Women"; and Barbara Estes, 
manager of human resources for 
the Bendix Corporation, who will 
speak on "What Employers look 
For in lnterviewingWomen." 
The semfrta\t'~~~$., •. open.'.to.·.aJ1 university women. 
the coffee trees in Parana State in Brazil and reduced that country's export capacity to a trickle 
As the Brazilian shortage is felt more and more in the com­ing two years, prices may even 
rise higher. 
WANTED 

Wanted: Used sl'de.;>rojector (35 mm) in good condition, Call: 784­2518. 
Need one roommate at Crestwood Apt. Now or next semester. Call John, 289-9193, or Rich, 283-6820. 
NEED EXTRA CHRISTMAS CASH??? Will buy ONE Season BB ticket. Please call Lynda, 7668 {10­
5) or 277-1089 after 6 pm. 
St. Mary's students needed as campus sales representatives for fashionable products. Earn ex­cellent money fast. Call Shawn, 3318. 
I need ride to Owosso, Mich for Xmas break on either Wed. 
evening,  Dec.  17, or  Thurs  AM.  
Will  share expenses.  Call  Terri,  
7051.  

Wanted: riders going to San An­tonio, Texas tor Christmas break. Call Ron, 1219. 
Need ride to sunny So. California. Leave on the 18th. Call 8526, best after midnlte. 
FOR SALE 

For sale: Electro-voice EVS 16B speakers, 12", 3way, $160 pr. Paul, 1004. 
For Sale: 1968 Dodge Dart, 2 door sedan, 6-cyl., std. transmission, 68,000 miles, $500. Call Mke, 232­0761. 
For Sale: 2 hockey goalie sticks. $3.50 each. Tom. 3341. 
Turntable for sale: BSR Professional series model 2520 with wood base. Only 5 months old. $70 dollars, call 8230. 
For sale: Volvo 144S, 1968. Call: 277-0147. 
For Sale: '65 Pontiac LeMans, good running condition, $225. 289­9H>4. 825 N.D.Ave. 
FOR RENT 

FOR RENT: Two female 
ments." 
The subcommittee chairman also criticized Bailar's recent moves to save labor costs and speed the closing of small post offices. Wilson complained that the Postal Service has failed to keep Congress informed of its intentions. 
Bailar responded, "The Post­al Service is in grave financial situation. I would be subject to criticism if I didn't take what­ever measures can be taken to hold down on costs." 
The postal deficit is now run­ning at nearly $7 million per day. 
For Rent: Student wanted to share 3-bedroom newly carpeted and remodeled house on 5 acre ranch with 2 other students, 1 mile N. of campus. Available In January. Call 277.0846. 
For Rent: Furnished apt. near campus available 12-21-75. Utilities. 3 adults. 272-6174. 
Furnished Apartment, 503 W. Je­fferson, Duplex, 3 rooms. Flrst flooor. Gas heat furnished, 289­6307. 234-0596. 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING. Private 12 man student residence. All accomodatlons. including meals, laundry, single bedrooms. Ex­cellent study atmosphere. 10 minute walk from circle. Places available second semester. Call Pat, 232-0550. 
~JOTICES 

TODAY'S ADS ARE DEDICATED 
TO  ANNE  PEELER,  WHO  IS  
QUITTING  HER  JOB  FOR  AN  
ART CAREER.  

FLANNER RECORDS has in stock the best of John Lennon, Seals and Crofts, Barry White, America, Chicago, plus the new Aerosmith, Crosby-Nash, Fleet­wood Mac, Elton John, Paul Simon and many more. Call 1487 or come to 807 Flanner. 
The Notre Dame Cook Book. The perfect Christmas gift for someone special. Limited quantity priced at $3.50. Available at Aquinas and NO Bookstores. 
Grand Opening! Dec. 3 . Dec. 6. Jennifer's, Upper level, Scott­sdale, Big Savings. 
For the latest in FASHION, Call284­4176. 
Greyhound Bus to Chicago for next 2 Fridays. Leaves Main Circle at 5:45. Call Tom at 8338 for Info. 
I will do typing, experienced, term papers. manuscripts, etc. Call 233­8512.' 
Piano Tuning and repair. 
bedroom house for next semester. Professionally trained without 2'1• blocks from Angela-NO In­strobes. Duane Christianson, 287­tersection. Call 289-4303 between 5 
hou.semates wanted to share 3­
8890. pm and 10 pm. Books make great gifts. New books Ren.t "JY ••nst..irs $50 month 2:13 . • • and box sets ideal for evervone At 
mail delivery would save about $300 million to $350 million per year. 
Bailar, in his first substantive comments on House-passed postal legislation, said the bill would cause the Postal Service to go broke within a few weeks. 
Wilson agreed that it "is a very bad bill" and expressed hope the Senate would remove provisions to limit the mone­tary independence of the postal service. 
The provision that both 
and Wilson com about would require the Postal Service to pay all its income into the Treasury and come to Congress for annual appropria­tions. 
Bailar said that under the provision the Postal Service would lose its present sources of income as soon as the bill took effect. 
But then it would have to wait for the lengthy appropria­tion process to be completed before it could receive any funds, the postmaster general 
said. 

Bailar conceded that his STUDENT UNION will once again be economy moves are unpopular. "There is no easy or noncontro­~s~~oring a STUDENT BOOK 
versial way to hold the line on postal costs. But as postal mao-EXCHANGE. Sellers may drop off 
agers . ~e. cannot sh~rk .our re­sponsibihty for brmgmg the 
li''"n'~' on the following days only. 
p~stal. budget b_ack into t?uc~ 
JANUARY 13 AND 14.
With fiscal reality, even If It means incurring _the d_is-
Watch for time and place. 
pleasu~~ of local, mfluenhal grou~s. . . 
Ba1lar sa1d endmg Saturday 
FASHION; OR, LIFE IN NEW YORK

~NQl
SMC 

c;/f'tmando'j, .'Ba'tbc.'t & cJ-Iai't ~tyfc.
Anna Cora Mowatt's clauic comedy of manners about the 
trials and foibles of 19th century New York soc•ety.
fHEATRE 


OPEN SIX DAYS A WEEK 
MONDAY THRU FRIDAY 8 TO 5,30 . 
SATURDAY 8 TO 4

All Seats $2 Dec. 5, 6, 11, 12,13 at 8:00P.M.
(STD-FAC $1.50) 

PERSONALIZED SERVICE
O'Laughlin Auditorium (St. Mary's) 
ARMANDO FEMIA 1437 N. IRONWOOD DR PHONE 277-0615 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 
Phone 284-4176 

CLASSIFIED RDS 
-·1329;\ IJ_..~~"l•~•r; ... ·, 1~· •"','.~ • ·•","';",~,;•...,-'//,~l\fldot-d:A. ·aooas:.,9tz"S.A"'.A.;~·..rt • ~ •-,"• • •'• • • '"'r'i.•',,,';\.,";'/,..' '~ ~: ~-· "": .... ·\\~e~; ~~ ·~ 
. . .. . . . . .. . ........... :. .. " .. -• , .• 
USED BOOKS AND PAPER­BACKS. Large stock of general r~ading material and o.p. books. Bring this ad and receive one tree paperback with any $1.00 pur­chase. The Bookstack. 112 W. Lexington, Elkhart, IN, 46514. 
Accurate, fast typing. Call Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. 
BOOK SHOP. 30,000 books and prints. Ralph A. Casperson Books. 1303 Niles-Buchanan Road, Niles. Hours Wed., Sat., Sn. 9 to 7 or chance. 
MORRISEY LOAN FUND. $20-150. 1 DAY WAITING 
PER 100. 1 percent Interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune basement, M-F, 11:15-12:15. 
Typing, $.35 a page. Call Dan, 272­5549. 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: One small black dog who answers to the name Corby. Owners have half a bag of Kroger­special dog food they don't want to go to waste.. If found, please call 288-0088. 
Lost: Commodore-Klngspolnt Calculator in Nieuwland Sci. at beginning of year. If found please call 1609. 
FOUND: Olde Frothlngslosh T­shirt in front of Walsh Hall. Call 8126. 
Found: watch in Cavanaugh. Call 7837 to identify and pay for this ad. 
LOST: One Pocket-knife, between BP and North dining hall on Tuesday. Great Personal Value. Pleas~Call1333, reward. 
PERSONALS 
To Gutterball Feehan: You're welcomedown my alley anytime. Love, Kingpin. 
GILDA: Come forth and 'tess up. I think I love you. Tom 
T.C. File this under SPQR (Sta Pazza questa ragazza). " B 
_ _ , ., ........ , .... ., ...... , ...... . ................ -· · · ove, 
M.C.Mc. 
Dear Tommy, 
Thanks for asking on Saturday, but I'm already 'highly Illogical' and that's pretty high as it IsI 
Th Reporter 
P.S. Yes, this Is the personal you've been waiting ~orl 
Get going where the going Is good! Be at the Observer Christmas Party on Saturday. 
The dynamic dolphins are coming by leaps & bounds. 
Shari, 
Good luck. Good times. Good grief. You're 18. Have a SEN­SATIONAL B·Day. 
Love, D.O. 
Say good-bye to Hal as he Is being phased out at the Observer Christmas Party this Saturday night. 
Hey Dude, 
Thands aglan for your 'house•­pitallty (and your soup's not bad, either). So now the drinks are on 
me. 
LeHambra 
P.S. Seen any good football games lately? 
Ruggers unit: Party Sat. nile at Bay East, 635 LWE(Leo & George's house). Problems? Call Breeze, 272-5814. 
Dearest Betho, 
Youmeet Cricket qualifications! So, we'll invite you up the next time Muhammed stops in at old 
399. Just ring our bell like 
Muhammed does: DING-DONG 
Bio Students, 
Please attend funeral of BELOVED classmate found in closet (death due to aerosol.) However, all except her most bereaved roommate are expected in classes and labs! 
Terry Keeney says: Be there or be square! Ovserver Christmas Party, Dec. 6. 
Puka shell and Hlshe bead necklaces from the Philippines. Excellent quality and low prices. Great for Christmas Gifts. Brian, 519 Flanner, 1078. 
Dear Mom & Dad, 
Just wanted to let you know that 1was thinking about you way down there In the sunshine. See ov soon 

. . .,. . , . • . , , .•..•Y. . 
··t-·c :._. -~ .~(" ... at ~hrtls~~';" "\•'-• ~ ..,',~ "",".L\.,,\\\ 

~ 
l 

.. 
... 
""• I' .. ' 

Thursday, December 4, 1975
12 the observer 

Swimmers, wrestlers open seasons 
Notre Dame, Ind. -First-year
NOTRE DAME, Ind. -Friday 
coach Ray Sepeta will take his 
night the Notre Dame swimming 
wrestling charges on the road this 
team opens its season with the weekend to open the 1975~6 
annual Notre Dame Invitational campaign. Traveling to 
Relays. This year six teams will 
Jacksonville, Illinois, the Irish 
be competing in the event: Drury will face the Highlanders of 
College, Bradley, Oakland, Wayne 
!.1:acMurray College on Saturday,
State and Valparaiso. Drury 
Dec. 6 at 12:30 p.m. in a dual 
College placed first last year with 
confrontation. From there,
the Irish finishing second and 
Sepeta's squad will motor to West 
Oakland following in third place. 
Lafayette, Indiana, to meet the 
The meet starts at 7 p.m. 

Boilermakers of Purdue in a 1 p.m. 
Irish head Coach Dennis Stark 
start Sunday.

brings a 111-86-1 record in to this 
The Irish do have some ex­
season and for the Irish this looks 
perience under their belts for the 
to be a very interesting cam­
weekend's dual meet openers.
paign. · This year's squad, led by 
Eight Irish wrestlers competed in 
captain Mark Foster, will have to 
the Indiana State Invitational on 
rely on youth as Stark lost three of 
Nov. 25 and 26, a meet that drew 
the best swimmers in the history of 
representatives from six mid­
Notre Dame. Trying to make up 
western schools for the non-team 
for this loss will be Bob Ebel, a scoring event. The Notre Dame 
NCAA qualifier last year, as well team wrestlers in three 
If you were to ask, here is what 1 would say. IRISH FOOTBALL SEASON ENDS AT 8-3: 
The fact that Notre Dame ended the 1975 season with its worst record since 1963 is not, in itself, terribly depressing. Though the Irish failed to defeat a team in the present Top ·rwenty, and in fact were beaten by teams which failed to appear on the final AP and UPI polls, the team was a young one. Thus, the season can be written off as a rebuilding year. Or can it? 
A rebuilding season is supposed to signify future stability. Before this season began, the Irish were criticized for having an inexperienced offensive line. For the most part, this year's offensive line was composed of four seniors <Ed Bauer, AI Wujciak, Steve Quehl and Pat Pohlen) and one sophomore in the form of Ernie Hughes. So next season, Notre Dame is once again faced with the prospect of returning only one interior lineman. 
Up until the past few months, USC was always highly competitive because they played extremely talented people at the skilled positions, e.g. quar­terback, split end and running back. In a rebuilding year. young replacements are supposed to gain experience at the skilled positions. 
Upon the graduation of Tom Clements, the Irish were faced with the challenge of locating a new field generaL When the final gun sounded in Miami eleven days ago, the heir apparent to the veteren Clements could not be spotted. Rick Slager posted the most playing time, Joe Montana pulled off two miracle wins and Gary Forystek and Joe Restic waited in the wings. Yet none had a firm hold on the 
position. In an era of reconstruction, a dominant foreman is always needed. 
While the quarterback situation was scrambled, the split-end job was open to applicants from all sides. At various times during the year now could look up and see no less than five different people at the receiver slot. Sophomore Ted Burgmeire shined early, then faded away to the defensive secondary. f<'reshman Kris Haines and sophomore Dan
.. Kelleher alternated regularly. Senior Kevin Doherty overcame injury to make his bid for the spot. Against Georgia Tech, the Irish went with the double-tight end set, using Dave Huffman as a f'omplement to Ken MacAfee. . 
It may be coincidence, or tradition, that the great Notre Dame teams of the past eleven years have
.. 
boasted classic quarterback-receiver link-ups. It began with John Huarte to Jack Snow, and over the years Hanratty-Seymour, Theismann-Gatewood and Clements-Demmerle, were terms that were as synonomous as peanut butter and jelly. When Notre Dame was without the noted passing combinations, 
... the Irish suffered through a period of .mediocrity . 
The diagnosis for the 1976 season is that the Irish must replace a depleted offensive line, find a bona­fide starting quarteback and establish a potent passing attack. This is in addition to finding two men to replace Al1-A~~nca Steve Niehaus. All m all, 1976 Will be a rebmldmg year. . 
Somehow that sound's vaguely familar. OKLAHOMA'S LEROY SELMON WINS OUTLAND TROPHY: 
I find it hard to believe that Leroy Selmon could outduel Steve niehaus for the award given annually to college football's premier lineman. Due to Oklahoma's twillyear suspension, the Sooners were banished from the TV scene. Thus the exposure given Selmon was limited. 
On the other hand, Niehaus, before breaking a leg in early 1972, was the country's most publicized freshman lineman. He came back his junior year from a second leg injury to play excellent defensive end. Finally, at home in the defensive tackle spot, the 6-5 260 pound Cincinnati native was im­pregnable. 
Niehaus was the subject of many A.B.C. sports 
isolated replays when the Irish appeared on 
national T.V. twice the year. 
The members of the Football Writers Association 
of America could all not have seen Selmon play. Yet the opportunity to view Niehaus occurred every week. Those who have watched Niehaus play over the past four years must feel his is deservant of the 
award. 

THE RENCHER CONNE(:TION: 
Though the basketball season is still young, 6-2 
freshman guard Bernard Rencher is quickly 
becoming a crowd pleaser. It is not a spree of wild 
shooting that makes Rencher's presence on the 
court so obvious. Rather it is his uncanny ability to 
spot the open man and set up a Notre Dame basket. 
Two nights ago versus Valpo, Rencher's lightning 
quick passes resulted in easy Notre Dame scores. 
He continually found the persons of Bruce Flowers, 
Adrian Dantley and Toby Knight, mired in crowds 
underneath the basket. The East Elmhurst, N.Y. 
native mystified the crowd by grabbing a rebound 
and back-handing the ball over his head to the 
awaiting Dnatley who was a full three-quarters of thr 
way down the floor. The end product was an easy 
lay-up. 

It may be too early to applaud any single in­
dividuaL Yet Rencher's knack of finding the free 
man is an inate ability that will grow over time. 
IRISH ICERS OFF TO 4-6 START: 
Don't be decieved by Notre Dame's hockey 
team's medicore record. The team is ayoung and 
an exciting one. The line of Clark Hamilton, Brian 
Walsh and Alex Pirus may be the most potent 
scoring attack in the WCHA. Notre Dame has 
received its share of bad breaks this year, as in­
juries on and off the ice have forced coach Lefty 
Smith to juggle his lineups. 
The icers play rival Wisconsin this weekend. 
Plenty of good seats are still available. A Notre 
Dame sweep would place the Irish right back in the 
thick of the WCHA race. 
placed 

Ray Sepeta weight classes. John Dowd, senior captain, finished second at 167, NCAA-qualifier from last year, Pat McKillen, took third at 150, and senior Fritz Bruening registered the Irish's initial pin of the season in capturing the third-place match at 158. 
Coach Sepeta termed the team's performance as good, saying it was "valuable experience for the boys to have under their belts going into the season. Indian State dominated the meet because they had two matches under their belts, while our wrestlers had the first-match jitters." Sepeta pointed out the fact that the team started three freshmen at the lower weight classes, coupling this with sophomores at each 142, 150 and 177, gives the Irish a very youthful squad. 
After their weekend oil the road, Notre Dame will return home, opening the home season on Wednesday, Dec. 10, hosting Eastern Michigan, Chicago State and Ohio Northern in a four-way match beginning at 3:30 
p.m. 

College b-ball scores 
Ohio University 59 Marietta 56 Oral Roberts 89 SE Missouri 56 
Miami 66, Dayton 55 Tulsa 71 Oklahoma 66 Nevada-Las 
Defiance 87, Wilmington 65 Arkansas 83, SW Mo. St. 57 
Ohio Northern 80, Findlay 76 Connecticut 83, Canisius 69 Tiffin 82, Urbana 77 Massachusetts 99, Harvard 87 Central State 86, Northern Vermont 74, New HampshireKentucky 71 63 
Maryland 99, DePauw 42 Boston Col 87, LeMoyne 72 
Bucknell 66, Penn 64 Auburn 88, W. Carolina 76 
Wittenberg 72, Bowling Green N.C. St. 117, E. Carolina 81 
60 S. Carolina 84, Toledo 64 
Tennessee 86, Duke 80 Lafayette 95, St. Joseph's, 
Pa. 88Princeton 60 Navy 59 

Syracuse 87, Buffalo 77 Alabama 78, LaS...e 57 
Cincinnati 118, Wright State Virginia 101, Washington & 
70 Lee 57 
Vegas 118 Colorado 88

Wisconsin 87, N. Dakota St. 
79 

Arizona St. 90 Seattle-Pacific 76 LSU 79 Tulane 65
Wake Forest 93, W. Va. 80 Colgate 70, Cornell 55 Texas A&M 107 SW Texas 74 
"LA 'NIGHT" 

TUESDAY & THURSDAY 

DANCE THIS WEEKEND TO 
PATCHWORK 
MICHIGAN'S TOP ROCK NIGHT CLUB! 
....II&GY'I 

:aooK BARN 
is the 

:BOOK SHOP 
: for 

• 
:BOOK LOVERS 
Turn North 2 blocks east of the e light at Cleveland and Juniper e 
• Old and new books (Emmons Rd.) Phone 272-5520 • eOpen Mon-Fri untO 1:00 Sundays noon otn 1:00 • 
STORE YOUR BIKES THIS WINTER FOR ONLY $7.50 
CORBY LAUNDROMAT 
1015 E. CORBY 233-0896 
(JUST WEST OF BRIDGET'S) 
as Bob Reilly, the fastest but-Dennis stark terflier for the Irish.
• 
In this year's Notre Dame Relays Drury College would have to be the pre-meet favorite with seven All-Americans returning from last year's 11-2 record. Oakland will also be battling for a top berth after placing fourth in the small college championship last year. And Notre Dame, who finished second last year, will also figure to finish strongly. 
On Saturday at 2 p.m. the Irish play host to the University of Waterloo at the Rockne Memorial Pool. Waterloo returns many swimmers from last year's squad, among them Ian Taylor and David Wilson. Taylor finished first in the 1()()()-yard freestyle while Wilson placed first in the individual medley as well as the 500-yard freestyle. 
Then on Tuesday at 4 p.m. the Notre Dame tankers will compete in their third meet in four days as they meet Northern Illinois. Northern Illinois is led by tri-captain Mark Voisard, who captured two firsts against the Irish in last year's 84-54 Irish victory. Along with Tom Gallagher, a backstroker, and Jim Reynolds, a diver, Northern Illinois has a strong nucleus returning. 
All meets are open to the public and admission is free. 
student ticket available for $8.

Ernie Torriero F:;:;:;;;;;;;;;;;:::;;;;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::;:;::::::::::=:=======::::::: 
Extra Points 
-====================================================================================:===================================================-==========:======:===:==::Past, pz:esen~~ lutu~e 
Banquet tiX 
The 54th annual Notre Dame Football Banquet will be held in the Athletic and Convocation Center next Thursday, December 
11. Dave Condon, sports columnist for the Chicago Tribune, will be the toastmaster. The banquet, sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley, will feature a social hour at 5:30p.m. and dinner at 7:00p.m. Reservations may be made by calling Chuck Barnato at 233-8261 <office) or 289-7698 <home). Tickets are priced at $13. There's a special Notre Dame 





