
'Absolutely no foundation' 
Rumor of Devine firing squelched 

BITTERSWEET VICTORY. A joyous Dan Devine addresses members of the press in the locker room following Saturday's game. When questioned about the rumors of his resignation, Devine hesitated. "My family has already suffered enough .•. " and the 
"' 

Coach was moved to tears. The rumors, according to The Denver Post, originated in Green Bay , where some citizens are blaming Devine for the Packers' four straight losses in the present season. 
(Photo by Chris Smith) 


A familiar face to the students of <'ongressional bill concerning non-St. Mary's this year is Greg military foreign assistance. <; ranwlspaclwr. A (;overnment major and native 
Sunilar to AI Sondej at Notre of ,Jasper. Indiana, I>aml'. Greg t'Qilects money for (;ram~·lspac~er also wor~s at the \'arious voluntary agencies in front 1\h•monal Library dunng the of till' St. Mary's Dining Hall at Wl'~k. lunch ancl dinner. (rranH'lspacher has collected 
<;ranwlspacher. a 1975 graduate o.v~·r ~600 t.hus. fa•:-The. Hunger

of Notre Dame. is research 
<oahtwn Will distribute h1s mon~yl'ommittl'e chairman of the Notre to s.uch ageJ_1c1es as the Catholic 
l>anH• · St. Mary's Hunger 
l~ehpf ~erv1~es, UNICEF, OX­
<'oalition. The committee deals I< Al\1. CAHE. and the Church 
~i'J' 
.·~~.~ 



4 .... ~o~w 
t1PU 
. 

1 i. ' • Greg Gramelspacher is currently collecting money for voluntary agencies in front of the St. Mary's dining halls. (Photo by Tom Lose). 
efficiency and concentration of their Pfforts on development projects that help the very poor to hl'lp themselves." 
The mspiration for 
(;ranwlspacher's work came from 
many sources, but AI Sondej's 

l'Xample was the primary factor. 
"It was just a matter of seeing the truth in what AI was saying and doing," said Gramelspacher. "The basic questions which he 
asks. and which we all must ask 
are 'Are all men equal~ If so, why 
are the poorest 80percent of the 
world's people left with only 20 
percent of the world's resources 
and Wl'alth?' 

"Bl'ing tmthful to ourselves we must answer these questions and respond accordingly," he added. 
Gramelspacher wishes to thank Jllthe people at St Mary's for their cooperation and support. 
by Fred Herbst and Bill Brink Sports Editor 
The rumored firing of Notre Dame head football coach Dan Devine was termed "vicious and malicious with absolutely no foundation" by Fr. Edmund P. Joyce, Notre Dame executive vice­president and chairman of the faculty board of athletics. 

The report stated Devine would be fired following the Air Force game and be replaced by former coach Ara Parseghian on an in­terim basis. Don Shula was to take the job next season. 
The rumor was first reported Friday night by a caller on a radio talk show hosted by Bill Currie of Pittsburgh station KDKA. Currie, sports director for KDKA, then reported the rumor in subsequent sports broadcasts. 

According to a KDKA spokesman, tne call originated in South Bend and the caller claimed to be a Notre Dame scout. 
Devine was not aware of the rumor until after Saturday's game. 
The Irish head coach broke down in tears when asked to comment on the rumor. 
"I don't even wish to dignify that rumor with a comment," Devine said. "I could just cry inside when I think of how my family and those of my former coaches at Green Bay have been hurt." He then turned away from reporters and began to cry. 
At this point, Roger Vaidiserri, sports information director for the University, iPterjected for Devine, who was unable to continue, and explained the coach's concern about his former assistants at Green Bay who are now in Boston. 

Wiping the tears from his eyes .with a towel, Devine turned to face reporters and apologized, saying, "This has never happened before." 
Default not solution for Ne'W York City 
NEW YORK <AP> -Mayor 
Abraham D. Beame said Sun­
day that even if New York City 
defaulted and was thereby 
spared from paying interest on 
its debts, it would still be $1 bil­
lion short of the cash needed to 
meet payrolls from December 
to March. 
"We'd have to close up the 
city," he said, denying claims 
that default would hurt only 
banks and investors holding 
city securities. 
The chiefs of the city's police, fire and other front-line unions said they planned to tell Presi­dent Ford that default "could trigger riots and anarchy" if welfare and payroll checks were stopped. 

They said a scheduled ap­pointment Monday morning with Ford had been postponed until Oct. 28 and that Sen. James L. Buckley, R·N.Y., would go to the White House in­stead to urge federal subsidies to restore police and fire de­partments to their pre-budget­cut size. 
Buckley has opposed many proposals for federal aid. Rt>ame disclosed the city's 
desperate cash-flow position on 
the NRC' program "Meet The 
Press'' before flying here for 
an unusual Sunday meeting of 
the Emergency Financial Con· 
trot Board. 
With Gov. Hugh L. Carey in 
the chair, the Control Board 
was considering $200 million of 
new budget slashes which 
Beame said would mean firing 
thousands of city employees. 
Fiscal experts were also studying a new "California Plan" for a federal agency to serve as a lender of last resort to New York and other finan­
cially-threatened municipal­ities. 
The law says the new auster­ity program must be approved, rejected or revised by Monday in order for the state's $2.3 bil­lion aid program for the city to come into full effect. 
Beame and the union chiefs said they dreaded the street ef­fects of default. 
Treasury Secretary William Simon said on ABC's "Issues and Answers" that Vice Presi­dent Nelson Rockefeller also feared default would be ca­tastrophic but that he and Ford did not agree. 
Simon suggested the needed money could come if New York State imposed a new two or three per cent sales tax in all its communities to support the city. lie also suggested that New York State take over the city's share of the welfare bur­clen. 
Carey has already turned down the tax proposal. 
Simon's views on the con· sequences of default were dis­puted before the Sl'nate Bank­ing Committee on Saturday by New York's three top bankers and by the president of the world's biggest bank. 
A.W. Clausen, president of the $60 billion, San Francisco­based Bank of America, said default would be so serious that the question was not whether there should be federal aid, but only how it should be given. 
Carey praised his suggestion 
for a Federal Municipal Loan 
Agency and said the idea was 
under intensive study here. 
Briefly it called for a loan to 

cover the full amount of the city's accumulated deficit as well as the projected shortfall for fiscal 1976. 
Students use computer dating 
BLOOMINGTON. Ind. <APl enough profits through the date -The "in" thing at college scheme to pay off their educa­campuses this year appears to tiona! expenses. he computerized dating. At Interpersonal Hesearch Inc. least nearly 6,500 Indiana Uni­supplies the elaborate computer
\'ersity students here are will­program developed by Foster ing to try it out. to sort student applications for a percentage of the profits. The
The low-cost date mat<;h fee to participate in the dateservices were masterminded by matchup is $3.50 per student.

two I.U. students who have sold their idea to other schools, in· Psychologists and other pro­rluding Purdue University's fessionals were consulted in student government. formulatin~ questions for the 
application, Foster said.

StPve Danzig of Evanston, Ill .. an I.U. senior and former Biographical information, as student government president, well as opinions on marijuana, and !{andy Foster of Miami, drinking .. premarital' sex, ath­Fla.. a doctoral student in letics and who should pay for a physical chemistry, may reap elate are included in lhe appli­cation. 
Each student receives a list of about 12 11amPs and tele­phone numbers compiled by the computer which has sorted through the answers on appli­cations. 
Foster and Danzig said they have contacted student govern­nwnt leaders of more than 15 Eastern and Midwestern schools. Danzig said Kent State University will begin an adver­tising campaign for the service next week and student leaders at Floria, West Virginia, Ohio State, Michigan State and Howling Green universities are l'xpected to try out the service next semester. 
Monday, October 20, 1975
2 

the observer 

warld briefs 
MOSCOW <APl -Soviet police seized a 60-year-old woman 
Sunday after she demonstrated on a Moscow street for permission 
to emigrate to Israel and for the release of her son, now in a labor 
camr. 

Gesya Pinson of Riga held up a sign reading "freedom for my 
son, give us visas to Israel" outside a downtown museum as a 
crowd gathered across the street. 
Five minutes later, four policeman in a car drove up and took her 
away. Her son, Boris, 29, was sentenced to 10 years in a labor camp 
after he and 10 other Jews were convicted of planning the hijack of 
a plane from Leningrad to Sweden in 1970. 
KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia <AP)-Fire destroyed a village 60 miles southeast of Kuala Lumpur over the weekend, leaving 300 persons homeless, causing $1.2 million in damage but no casualties, officials said Sunday. The cause of the fire was not immediately · known. 
TEL AVIV <APl -Israel's national air carrier, El AI, was 
strikebound for the fourth day Sunday. A company spokesman said 
the dispute had already cost $2 million and forced about 9,000 
passengers to be transferred to other airlines. 
El AI 's board of governors officially closed the airline, and said 
flights would not resume until it had guarantees against 
"irresponsible action." 

The workers were striking over what they said was 
management's refusal to negotiate wage claims. El AI said the 
claims violated contracts agreed to by the workers. 

an campus taday 
4:15pm--film, "the thin man", in engineering auditorium, sponsored by the speech & drama dept, tickets $1. 
4:30 om--general faculty meeting, father hesburgh will address the opening meeting of the faculty in washington hall. 
7:00 pm--· mecha meeting, monday, basement Iafortune, all 
invited. 7:00rpm--Chess Club meeting rm. 227 Math and Computer Center. 
8:00 
pm--concert, "chicago" In ace, $6.50 rear stage seats only. 

8:00 
pm--lecture, "the problems & promises of fusion energy" by sigma XI lecturer dr. melvin b. gottlieb, director, plasma physics lab, princeton university, m.j., in library auditorium, sponsored by notre dame chapter Jf sigma XI. 

8:00 
& . , film, "wild strawberries", in engineering auditorium, 10:00 pm--tickets $1. 


Notre Dame dining halls celebrate anniversaries 
Dining halls at Notre Dame are celebrating the nation's 200th birthday this semester with special parties planned for the an­niversaries of South Bend, the University and the State of In­diana. 
Bakers and confectioners will fashion birthday cakes in the form of fire hydrants, appropriately dt'corated as revolutionary era soldiers, for the city's birthday party Thursday, Oct. 23. The city has gained national fame for the unique designs on hydrants, originated by Ruth Von Karowsky, a 1974 Notre Dame fine arts gr·aduate student. 
Notre Dame's birthday will be celebrated on Tuesday, Nov. 18. 
"Golden Dome" birthday cake to ct>lebrate a 133rd anniversary. 
1\ large cake in the shape of the State of Indiana. complete with the state seal. will be served to students on Dec. 15, an an­niversary of the state's admittance to the Union in 1816. 
The Ob~erver ~~ publi~hed Monday through F rtday and weekly dur1ng the summer session, except dur1ng e)(ams ?.r,d vacation periods The Ob~erver ~~ publ1~hed by the 
•tudents ot the Univ. of Notre Dame and 51 Mary·~ College SubscriptiOns may be purcha~ed tor lO dollar~ per ~eme~ter 118 dollars per year) from The Ob server, Box Q, Notre Dame. In d1ana, 46556. Second Class postage paid. Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
WASHINGTON <APl -Bit­ter fights over energy and tax legislation are in prospect with­in Congress and between its members and President Ford for the rest of this year. 
The Senate resumes debate on one of the major disputed bills, an emergency natural gas measure, when Congress re­turns Monday from a week's recess_ 
The legislative load is so heavy and includes so many controversies that congression­al leaders agree the 1975 ses­sion will run to Christmas and perhaps pven New Year's. 
In addition to the major tax 
and Pnergy issues, Congress 
lllttsl deal with aid for the 
l\1 iddle East, defense spending 
and aid for cities before the 
Sl'SSion PlldS. 

llpmorrats are pushing for 
only a temporary natural gas 
IIIPasure that would allow gas­
short pipt>lines to buy enough 
supplies to get through the win­
ter at prices well above what 
tht>y noramlly pay for inter­
state shipments. 

Ht>publicans. however, want 
to add provisions to r·emove all 
federal controls gradually from 
natural gas as requested by 
President Ford. 

The Senate has agreed to 
take a final vote on the legisla­
1ion Friday. 

Tlw omnibus energy bill is in 
a St>nate-House conference. 
The nwasure would maintain 
the present $5.25 a barrel price 
on old oil produced before 1973 
and roll back the price on new 
oil bt>low the world market lev­
els now running at about $13.50 
a barrd. 

Ford wants to end oil price 
controls. but is willing to have 
I hem phased out over a period 
running as long as 39 months. 
ThP tax issue is before the House Ways and Means Com­mittee which was caught by surprise 10 days ago when the Prt>sident revealed his propos-
Congress convenes today 
Bakers are studying plans to serve 
: VALERIE'S RESTAURANT : 
: 801 S. MICHIGAN. SO. BEND •
•

: (NEXT TO GILBERTS) 289 -0681 
•
•

• OPEN BREAKFAST SERVED •
•

• Mon thru Sat ANYTIME ••• 5 am to 9 pm • • II am to 7 pm Sunday • 
ITALlAN SPECIALTIES :
• 
•

• SPAGHETTI •
• •

Sauce 1.65 Meat Sauce 1.80 Meat Balls 1.90
• •

• MOSTACIOI.LI •
• 

Sauce 1.65 Meat Sauce 1.80 Meat Balls 1.90 
• :LASAGNA 2.35 RAVIOLI 1.75 • 
• 1Dinners inc. Italian bread & salad and soup) •
• 

• PASTA FAGIOLI iltalian bean soup; .45 & .65 
•

:ITALIAN SAUSAGE SANDWICH 1.15 •
•

:MEAT BALL SANDWICH 1.00 •
•

: USE OUR LIGHTED PARKING LOT • 
•2 DOORS NORTH ON MICHIGAN ST. •
•

: CARRY OUT ORDERS-WELCOME • 
• A QUALITY RESTAURANT OPERATED BY : 
~ ••~~~~~~~~J'.~~~fjJ~~T.E~.~~••••: 
~--------------------------------------------------------­
als for a $28 billion permanent. like rPduction in the growth of tax reduction. coupled with a ft>deral spending. 

ROCCO'S 
Barbers & Hairstvlists 
Full Service Unisex Shop
Make an Appointment or 
Just Drop By ! 
Hoffler Products 531 N. Michigan 233-4957 

--COUPON-­

liTHE LIVING BIBLE'' 
REG. $10.95 $5.00 OFF WITH THIS COUPON 
A BEAUTIFUL BOOK BOUND IN GREEN PATTED SIMULATED LEATHER 
COLLEGE SQUARE • MISHAWAKA Across from Town & Country Shopping Center 
PHONE 259-5288 
Parklane is the II source II for Danskin Leotards and Tights 
Danskins are for everywhere and everyone. for partying and playing, exercising and 
dancing, and for just plain wearing around. 
Made of 100% easy care nylon . Available in a rainbow of colors and a multitude of styles at these Parklane Stores. 

NEUMODE HOSIERY 2454 MIRACLE LANE Mishawaka 
SCOTTSDALE MALL 

Monday, October 20, 1975 the observer 
In bullet-proof courtroom 
Two SLA members face murder charges 
LllS ANGELI<:S <AP) -Two Symhioncse Liberation Army memlwrs go on trial Monday in a bullet -proof courtroom. Al­n'<Hiy convicted of murder, Jo­st>ph Ht•miro and Hussell Little will ht• tried on new charges of attt•mptcd murder and posses­sion of t•xplosives. 

lkmiro and Little were con­vietPd Parlier this year in the am bush murder of Oakland Sehools Superintendent Marcus Fostt·r and sentenced to life tPrms in prison. 
Tlw current trial stems from a shootout with police at Con-

US accu:mulates 41 gold :medals 
1\!Jo:XICO CITY <APl -The llnitPd Statt•s picked up three ).!.old nH'dals in rowing-about half tlw number t>xpected from a n•vampt>d. Vl'tl'ran team­and pony-lailt>d ,Jan Mt>rrill won tlw first women's 1,500-me­lt>r run t•vpr held in the Pan :\Ill <;;mws Sunday. 
The four ).!.olds pushed the l 'nilt•d States' growing total lo 
H. eom fort ably in front of <'uha. in second place with 32. ( 'uha had hl.'ld a surprising lead. built on 20 gold medals won by their weight-lifters, Ih rough Iht• first few days of this lwo-wt•t>k hemispheric cele­bration of sports. 
(;oing into a heavy night seh<•dule. the U.S. gold-silver­bronzt• total was 41-35-21. Cuba had :12-26-1:1. followed by Cana­da. lO-I:l-17; Brazil, 6-7-8, and host Mt•xico. 4-5-16. 
Tht> swimming program. a Iradi tiona I stronghold for the 

Energy Committee outlines future plans 
h~ Sut• Ballmann Sta rf Ht'IIOrlt>r 
"BPing able to conserve energy, l'onfronting rising costs, and IPsst>ning pollution are the ob­_wctivPs of tht• J<:nergy Committee at St. 1\lary's," statt>d chairman Kav I'Pters. 
St 1\lary's J<:nt>rgy Committee will nH•Pt for the first time next Thursday. Oct. 2:1. The newly­lornwd com 111 ittee. headed by KayPl'ters of Public Helations and llt'Vl'lopmPnt. will determine Pxaetly what can be done to con-Sl'I'Vt' Pnt'rgy. 
"Tiw ('om 111 ittee plans to work in l'Otljunction with local 

. organizations such as STAHT and .PHII>I•:." said PPter. The Com­mittee hopes to work on such projt•cts as recycling cans and paper with START and to receive tt•chnical advice from PRIDE. 
PHIDI:<: is a committee from the govt>rnor's office composed of area husinessml'n who exchange ideas 

******************************* 
!MAKE THIS !i -CHRISTMAS A i £ ttTENNIS XMAS'1 
: GIVE THAT SOMEONE SPECIAL : 
eord. Calif., during their arrest tlw SLA background of Remiro .Jan. 10, 1974. The charges in­and Little, according to court dude assault on a police offi­authorities. cPr. attempted murder of a po-The samp courtroom was also 
, lice officer and explosives pos­used in pre-trial hearings of session. William and Emily Harris. Re­miro. Little and the Harrises
It was the arrest of the pair 

arc ml'mbers of the terroristwhich led police to an SLA 
SLA.
hideout in Concord where they Ht•miro. 26, a Vietnam veter-found t•xplosives and piles of 1 an. and Little. 25, a onetimelitPraturc on the then unknown 

'philosophy student at the Uni­
tPrrorist band. 

vt>rsi ty of !<'lorida, are acting 
The high security courtroom, as their own attorneys with ft>aturing a thick glass shield Ia wyers appointed to advise bt>t Wl'l'n spectators and defend­thl'm. ants, is being used because of Ht>miro already has objected 
AnH'ricans. swung mto full ac­1ivily with five finals high­lighting a busy night schedule. 
(;old nwdals-most of them Pxpt•ctt>d to go to the youthful \'ankeps wt>re to be dis­1ributt•d in the men's 200-meter lrN•stvle. the nH'n's 100-meter hn•asist roke and backstroke, tlw womt>n's 400-meter medley relay and the women's 200-me­l<•r ·individual medley. 
Otlwr late Sunday events in­l'ludt-d a fencing final. the epee individual and a men's gymnas­tic event. 
Also still to be completed was lht> l'Xhausting, two-day, 10­l'Vl'nt decathlon. where the leader was Fred Dixon of Bur­hank. Calif. 
Tht> AmNican rowing team, blanked in golds in the 1971 Games in Cali, Colombia, aban­doned its practice of using a eollegt> or club team, went in­stead to the best individuals 
on cutting energy costs, like the usage of eoal. 
Tlw nwmbers of the Committee, appointed by Dr. Duggan. president of St. Mary's. include tlm•e students, representatives from Student Affairs, the faculty, n1aint<•nance. utilities, Public Hl'lations and Development. Saga, security. and J<'iscal Affairs. 
H~· ir;cluding every department in the college, the Committee hopes to make everyone aware of tlw Pnt-rgy crisis so everyone can l'ontribute to the conservation pfforl. 
Pl'lers cited a few steps that havl' already been taken to con­front the problem. "Notices were placed in t>ach room advising stud<•nts to turn off their lights and eonserve energy. Special ther­mostats were installed on the first floor of the Library of Le Mans." 
Pt>ters stressed that the ''<'tJergy committtee must con­\'ince people there is an energy erisis. and we must learn to live with it." 

around and had high hopes of taking six of t>ight gold medals lwre. 
They had worked together for about a year and came to this inland pl~tteau a month ago to acclimall' themselves to Mexico <'ity's breath-taking 7,350-foot altitude. 
But they didn't win a single !'Vent halfway through the pro­gram. then took three of the last four. winning in the pairs with cox. the fours without cox and the big one, the prestigious Pigh oars. 
In that one, the Americans just lwld off Cuba by one sec­ond. winning in !i minutes, 24.2 seconds. 
Miss Merrill, a 19-year-i>ld junior college student from Wa­terford, Conn., pulled away on the final lap and scored a 25­\'ard decision over Canada's ;rhelma Wright in 4:18.32, the first timt> the women's 1,500 had been held in these quad­riennial games. It was a two­woman race most of the way, with Canada's Abby Hoffman a distant third. 
In Sunday's only other run­ning final in track, Edith Noed­ing won Peru's first medal, a gold. by holding off Debbie LaPlante. Belleville, Mich., in the wonwn's 100-meter hurdles. 1\liss Not>ding won in 13:56 and 1\liss LaPlante was timed in t:l:<iB. 
the observer 
Night Editor: Marti Hogan Assistant Night Editor: Martha Fanning Layout Staff: Jim Stevens Day Editorl Brian Clancy Copy Reader: Giacomo D'Aurora Editorials: Jim Eder Features: Gregg"M.B." Bangs Sports: Bill Brink 
Typists: Marie McCarthy, Karen Chiames, T. Harlan, Candy 
F. 
Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz Night Controller: Howard Halle Ad Layout: Tom Whelan, Margie 
lrr 




ENERGY 

CONFERENCE 
to use of the g-lass courtroom saying it will "prejudice the ju­rors against us." 
The Harrises, charged with kidnaping, robbery and assault in the Patricia Hearst case, also lodged complaints about tht> courtroom during their !waring last Friday. 
Superior Court Judge M. Hoss Bigelow, who is hearing the Ht>miro-Little case, has re­fused to change courtrooms or refrain from havine all specta-
Notre Dame · Saint Mary's Theatre needs 
CLOWNS 
for project Head Start Clown Program. Volunteer just an hour or two! 
Organizational meeting 6 PM • Monday Oct. .20 in room 2.28 Moreau Hall, SMC Call .277-1386 for information. 
-. 
EVERY DAY LOW PRICES * DRAFT $.40
* 
BOTTLE BEER $.50

* 
MIXED DRINKS $.60 


THE BEST IN STEREOPHONIC$ 
IMMENSE GAME ROOM 

FAT WALLY'S 
,..............•................................ 
.. 
: : • : • : • 
ELKHART CONCERT CLUB 
Tickets: 
$6.00 Adults 
$3.00 Students 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 8 P.M. ELCO THEATRE 
Hckets available at Templin's, Grinnell's, Truth Reader's Serv. ~ at door 
tors and press searched and photographed. 
Tht> trial was moved here from Northern California be­cause of wide~pread publicity there in the earlier murder trial. which was held in Sacra­nwnto. 
Tht> defendants already have elashed with the judge over \'arious rulings -notably his gag order which prevents them from making public statements 
, about the case 
-··············································· 

: ~\""SPORTING" GIFT THAT WILL : ! "SERVE LOVE" ALL YEAR 'ROUND~ 
i SPENI'S ! 
* * 
: PRO SHOP t
: * 
! 321 SOUTH NOTRE DAME # 
t*~9*lJ1t!*~f;i~*******~~~A7JAl 
TUESDAY LIBRARY AUDITORIUM, 8:00 P.M. WEDNESDAY WASHINGTON HALL, 8:00 P.M. THURSDAY LIBRARY AUDITORIUM, 8:00 P.M. 
laughing boy 




~ ~~d.9!?..~~rver 
Founded Novl"'llbe-r 3, 1966 

Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief 
Work •1n Regress

Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Mani\ger 

EDITORIAL BOARD AI Rutht>rlord, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; Kt•n Gir~uard, Nl.'ws Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Ken Bradiord, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil. Features Editor; Chris Smith, Photo Editor 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ john zygm u nt 


Monday, October 20, 1975 


What is the purpose of prietals? Why does Notre Dan1e
Two-faced Bombs
have parietal rules on one hand and then break them on the other? To me, it seems pretty two-faced

Parietals Away
and if the University is going to make a stand, it should n1ake one 
I>t•ar Editor. I h'a r Editor:
one way or the other 
The University of Notre Dame is a Catholic institution and obviously \'alt•t·ie Zurblis I have just returned from abides by the rules of a Catholic Toronto. Looking through recent institution. In one aspect, namely issues of the Observer I saw that of coeducational relationship, \·arious articles on the unseemly there are no coed dorms, there arf' behavior of the students at the parietal hours and even a written Fetus football ~ames. Although I agree sexuality code. If caught breaking that students should try to control parietals. one could be suspended thl'mselves. I think we should also

Suffrage
from the University. be thankful. Thankful that our I then must question the role that students do not act like those at the 
I>t•ar Editor:
maintenence plays in women's llniversitv of Toronto. dorms. If there is something in the E\·ery so often, Joe Corpora The ga'me on September 27th dorn1 or dorn1 roon1 tha t needs writes a column in the Obst>rver was one of fierce rivalry between fixing, the maid is usually notified oesigned to outrage our con­ll ofT and (~ueens University. The and reports it to n1aintenance who sciences and gross out our quality of play was nowhere near will get around to fixing it within a stomachs. This column is part of that of Notre Dame, but the few-weeks. the author's righteous crusade players wt•re serious. I think they 
I do not think that it is necessary against abortion. But today I have must have found that con­for maintenance to come in early concluded that good ol' Joe is centrating was hard though. morning hours, breaking parietals, erusading in the wrong way. I Throughout the entire game they to do their work. The other mor­hope he will see the light as he and anvone else on the field were ning at 9a.m. I was asleep in bed, reads further. pelted 'with water bombs. Two and when I heard voices, turned to I choose to revive th Phillip Roth students holding crutches joined see that the n1aid had let a strange theory of fetus' rights. The theory by a piece of rubber tubing formed man ir~o my bedroom and he was starts with a simple propostition: a slingshot that was pulled aimed, fooling around with n1y transom. Politicians won't do something for and fired by a third. Its range When they noticed I was awake, nothing. Thus, the rights of fetuses included most of the field and this they left. I wanted to take a have little chance of passage in our side of the stands. shower but upon looking down the congress. They were poor shots and were hall I saw him standing in the But wht if the wonderful Right to booed by the other students middle of it chatting with the maid. Life movement directed all of its whenever they hit one of their own 
Other girls not suspecting a male resources to gaining suffrage players. but no one tried to stop in the hall in the n1orning, left their rights for the unborn? Most I hen1. I find it hard to picture rooms scantily dressed to go to the politicians would be inclined to Luther Bradley or Ted Burgmeier bathroom. Itook a shower upstairs agree with widening the electorate dodging a water bomb before and returned. The n1aid and the to include fetuses because being running for touchdowns. How maintenance n1an finally returned, basically vain people, they would it look in Sports Illustrated? the. maid stating that he was naturally assun1e they would I almost forgot to tell you, the 'persistent' and that he had to fix capture most of the new voters. stadium is shaped like a horseshoe. my transom now or else it wouldn't And, whn the unborn can vote, the On one side sit the students from 
get done. politicians will curry their favor by both universities, the "rowdies". Also. last week maintenance proposing all kinds of anti-abortion On the other side, everyone else. decided to fix the showers at 8 a.m. laws and amendments. In between there is an eight foot 
People walking in the bathrooms After all, <20 seconds), what fence crowned with barbed wire! I were unaware of the male politician could tolerate their did ,not see any trenches or presence, and embarrassed, had to supporters being killed off. machine gun posts. go to other floors' bathrooms. Stevt' Thompson Paul Lmtet· 1The following is an excerpt from my upcoming novel of which I have so far completed this excerpt. It utilizes an episodic style rt>miniscent of James Joyce's "Portrait of an Artist" and several of the better Spiderman comic books. It is a serious book, except for the parts that are funny.) 
My story is of two students at Notre Dame University trying to find meaning in their lives or a coke machine that takes quarters. 
Chapter One: The Invention of the Stream Engine. 
Wesly walked over to his desk and threw his books on top of the books on top of the clothes on top of his bed. He tended to be messy. In fact, he was so n1essy that one Saturday night he got a girl up in his room and nothing happened because he couldn't find his bed. 
Wesly still couldn't believe he had a football player for a room­mate: Knuckles Cronkski, the only player in college football to be recruited out of the Neanderthal Age. Knuckles was such a dummy, the athletic departn1ent had to hire a ventriloquist to walk around with him. 

Wesly missed his old roommate, a pre-med student named Cohen Leaonard. Like all pre-medders, Cohen was a compulsive over· achiever. Often he would spend a whole weekend studying for a physics test, and he didn't even take physics. "You can never tell," Cohen would say. "What if I walk into organic Monday and they pass out a physics test!" Finally the pressure got to him and Cohen went beserk last year during finals. He got up in the middle of the library and told everyone he was a messenger fron1 God sent to warn the world about double-knit suits ... Cohen was declared hopelessly insane and was sent to work for student governmenf.. .. 
"I've got to get a date," Wesly thought. He looked at Knuckles who was sitting in front of the TV set chewing on a can of beer. "Knuckles gets all the dates he wants." Wesly had gotten a date once, but the girl was strange. He found out later that she goes out every weekend and tries to outscore the Notre Dame Offense. 
But all that was last year. Wesly had been a different person 
then. He was out every night, bar-hopping, under a different pool 
table every night, sinking slowly into greater and greater degrees 
of depravity: excessive alcohol, excessive drugs. Then, one day, 
realizing he couldn't go on like this anymore, he switched out of 
business . 

Still, he could find no satisfaction in anything he did. Should he 
kill himself? He had not thought seriously of suicide before, 
although he had laughed about it a few times .... What is it the 
French say? "Le Vache est grand." Powerful words. Too bad he 
had never bothered to have them translated. He got up to go. 
"Hey, where are you going?" 
"I'm going to hang myself." 
"Oh ... Will you bring back a cup of coffee?" 

(In chapter two of our story, Wesly goes out to hang himself, but 
decides to buy a double-knit suit instead. He is then transformed 
into a charming prince only to discover each time he kisses a girl he 
turns into a State Farm Insurance salesman. He realizes at last the 
tragic menaing of the message of his ex-roommate Cohen, who is 
by now in charge of security for President Ford. 

Meanwhile the TV set stops working and Knuckles thinks the only 
way to make it start up again is to offer a human sacrifice.) 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
:£ IIAV/i TO SA~ 
H~&,Hc&! THaJGH, SIR.., lH& 81G IU BH!­7!1£1''1& Bt£N Be­OIL M&N IJ/tV&GOTA HAVING RATH&R IN 7lJWN HrJT UTTt.& 8APLY! 7H8MAN­
\ 
Y&T,MAC? CONC/iSS!ON A~ (j()/N6 ()()T ON OUR. OF HIS HANCJS! MIN!J! 
~ 
HIS COMPlAINT SIIYS TH~Y'V& 8/ZNtutU, S/N6/N6 It{ AU.­
MAC, Y{)() 1-KJVRS, fJR&AKINfJ HAV/3 TO ~5%5, SIJIIMMINfJ UN!J&R­IN7H&NUa... STANO.. 
\ " 
Monday, October 20, 1975 
the observer
.


mov1es 

ingmar bergman's film festioal 
a preview by fred graver 

Ingmar'Bergman has never offended the sensibilities of those who watch his films by taking the stance of "great director." His films progress effortlessly across the screen: moment upon moment, scene upon scene, situation upon situation. The films build up within themselves, organically, to neate the sense of mastery and craft­smanship with which we leave them. 
There is a challenge implicit in each scene of a Bergman film, for he simultaneously attempts to possess and be possessed by each scene. In writing and setting up the scene, he is attempting to imaginatively capture its essentials. In Iransferring his imagination to film, he must l'arefully oversee the scene's own rt-sonance and development. The final product is a moml'nt which, in one in­stanl'P, transmits the viewer into an nnaginativl' "foreign country" and dl'livl•rs him hack to his own sphere of I'Xistl•ncl'-fresh with new insight. 
Thl' . probll'm with writing about lkrgman·s films is that one is dealing wih l'lusivt' hut powerful images created through a tl'chniqueof illusion, and dealing \\'tlh llll'm 111 a stable and concrete form of words on thP page.· My definition above is obtusp and pondl'rous: the moments I am attl'mpting to describe are swift and in­eisi\'l'. 

records 
The five films featured in this weeks Bergman film festival at Notre Dame all hold within them innumerable moments of magic. Bergman is considered by many to 
be the world's finest living film maker. He did not acheive that recognition by being as heavy and difficult as the critics who see him as such. His films are engaging and challenging, but not without being ('Jltertaining at all times. 
BPrgman has written: "On the one hand, I am tempted to adapt myself to what the public wants me to be; but on .the other hand, I feel that this would be the end of everything and that this would emply a total indifference on my part. Thus, I am dl'lightl'd to have· not been born with Pxaatly as many brains as feelings." He makes films with two considerations in mind tamong many others>: himself and his audil'nce. It is his goal and often his uniqul' acheivml'llt that he Jets neither down. 
In each of this week's films (Scenes From A Marriage, Smiles Of A Summer Night. Wild Strawberries, The Silence and Cries and Whispers l there are images, seelH:'s and pfforts of the filmmaker to hridgl' the gaps created by his personal fel'lings a!Jout the film and his intellectual attempt to re-create the sensibilityof the film. Sometimes they are brilliantly 



the who and harrison 
----mooing forward 
a review by jim coyne 



The Who's latest album, "The Who By Numl)('rs", is a fine collection of pure Brit ish rotk and roll. Sounding a bit like "Who's Next" more so than "Quadrophenia", Peter Townshend and tlw hoys have rnised some moving rockers in with some smooth, mellow ballads, with hf'llt'r than average results. Townshend tsn't as noticahle as the lead on this album: it's more of a group effort with some surprisingly excellent harmonies hPing produced. 
Sid<• Oil<' starts off with "Slip Kid". whieh is an interesting musical piece with a ~ood production job by Glyn Johns. The \'oral harrnonies•11'e very evident here It's a ~ood number to open up with, kind of a takl' rharg{' song that you're not going to lifl' till' nel'dle from before it's over. Song 
number two, "llow<•ver Much I Booze", is a typieal Who rocker. with some very good ~uitar work. 
"lmagirw A Man", the final cut on side one. is a slow song, paced by good music, and good vocal harmonies. Mellowness tsn'l exactly a characteristic of the Who's musie, hut this one has mellow stamped all over it. Listening to it, you may be t·ompelled to chetk the album cover and 111ake sure it is really a Who album on the turntable, and not a new band from England. I think it is tthis change, this distinctivl•ness that makes this song stand out as onl' of the better songs on the album. and perhaps THE best. The lyrics are stor1ny and meaningful. 
. Lines like "Imagine a 

road, so long looking back you can't see 
wlwre it really began,.. make you think 
about your position in this world; what 
you're· doing, why you're doing it what 
you'll be doing in the future, etc. Are we 
really at such a confused stage in the world 
today that we can't look back, and see 
wlwre we started? The song mentions 
shooting and raping as everyday oc­
curances, and says that if we look at these 
things, and look into our past, we'll " ... see 
the end." I was surprised to find a song 
like this on a Who album, but welcomed it 
as a pleasant change of pace. 
Side two begins with "Success Story", a 

rocker that tells the story of rock and roll 
life. The Who proclaim here that rock and 
roll " ... used to be fun .. " and that rock and 
roll life was getting too hard. "They Are 
Allin Love". song number two, is a slower song, with great piano work by guest artist Nicky Hopkins. Another mellow tune, this is again a switch for the Who, and also the voeal harmonies are present once more. The next song makes excellent use of what sounds like a ukulele, to produce a haunting background for Townshend's ~ood vocals. "Rlue Red and Gray" sounds likl' it could be a love song, and contains soml' fine lyrics, e.g. speaking of people that need the sun because "a suntan never 
fails." 
"How many Friends" like the rest o£ the songs on the album is good musically, and this opus also sports an electronic background. The side closes with "In A Hand Or A Face", a mover th&t spotlights once again the harmonic ability of the group. 
"The Who By Numbers" is not The Who's best album. Nor is it their worst. It is their latest. however, and gives some idea of where the Who is at today. Their ro~;k is still rock, but the inclusion of the tm•llow songs seems to indicate a changing styll'. Maybe rock and roll isn't fun anymore. and maybe it is getting too hard. <hll' thing's for sure the Who's nwllowness has to be woecomed by music fans. Diversity marks a good artist, and tlw Who's diversity on this album marks them as one of the top British bands around today. The decision to make it nwre of a group effort stumps me. Maybe it's just another change the Who felt the twed to experiment with, lest their music and dl'livery get stale. Where the group is headed is another question that I can't seem to find the answer to. With Roger 
Daltry into the flicks these days, it's a 
question if he still has the rock and roll 
bug. "The Who By Numbers" is straight­
forward, an album that will be appreciated 
by Who fans, and maybe some 
non-Who people. Perhaps the album 
mtght even be lost in the new album 
shuffle. I hope not though. A group of the 
Who's caliber deserves at least one listen 
before being written off. Especially today, 
when the music business is seemingly 
flooded with second rate artists out to 
make a quick fortune by writing, for the 
most part, simple and empty songs. So, if 
you're a Who fan, buy the album. You'll be 
pleased with the new <or at least ex­
perimental l Who. If you're not a Who fan, 

this album might not .convert you, but it 
successful. Other times, and Bergman is often the first to admit this, the attempt goes a bit too much to one way or another and it fails. But the viewer is rarely not engaged in seeing the effort to its con­clusion. for better or worse. 
In the same essay. he writes: "I am forever asking myself this question: 'Can I express myself more simply, more purely, more briefly? Will everybody understand what I want to say now? Will the simplest mind be able to follow the course of these l'vents'? And, even more importantly, This question: up to what point do I have the right to admit compromise and where do my obligations to myself begin?" 
But the Bt>rgman festival is more than a chance to see the director struggling to t>xpress himself,. for Bergman, for the many times he is successful, accomplishes the l'Xpression of insight which open up wholl' new worlds and perceptions to us. In "Smiles of A Summer Night," he teaches a few simple lessons of love through a comedic entanglement of lovers of varied ages. In "Wild Strawberries," Bergman explores the mind of an old man traveling through the land of his youth, with a freshness and \'i vidness which regenerates our own 
will at least make you aware that the Bay City !:{oilers are not the only bit group from across the Atlantic. 
Gt>orge Harrison is no longer a dark horse. This is evidenced '-'Y the quality of his latest effort, "Extra 'Texture" <with a sub-title o£ ONOTHIMAGENl. "Extra Tl•xture"picks up where "All Things Must Past'' left off. Harrison's voice is back, along with some excellent guitar work. This album may well become somewhat of a collector's item, merely because of the fact that is the last rocording to bear the Applt• I able. Harrison's future endeavors will be on his own recently formed Dark Horse label. A small picture of an apple core is Harrison's way of depicting the end of I he Apple association. The other former Heatles have already gone their separate recording company ways. 
As far as the record itself is concerned, it is excellent. This may sound a little strong, but upon listening to this gem, vou'IJ find it hard not to agree. Side one begins with the by now familiar "You." The music here is above average, ably contributed to by Jim Horn on sax and L<•on Hussell on piano. This is the type of song that grows on you. The first time you listen to it, it doesn't really affect you. Pretty soon though, you find yourself wondering what is taking the needle so long to make contact with the groove. "You" is one of the best pop songs in the last ten years, possibly of all time. I usually don't like to go out on a limb, but for this song. I'd build a house on one. 
The third cut on side one is "This Guitar 
(can't keep from crying!". A love song, it 
could possibly be a flashback to "My 
Guitar Gently Weeps." One of the best 
lyrical songs on the album, "This Guitar" 
is aided by some fine producing and 
arranging by Harrison. . 
· Following "This Guitar" is 
"Ooh Baby <you know that I love youl' a 
song dedicated to Smokey Robinson. 
Harrison's venture into soul isn't too bad. 
The lyrics in th song are reminiscent of the 
t'arly Motown hits. Tom Scott plays horns 
on this number, and it seems that Scott's 
music makes every song a little better. 
"Ooh Baby" is a slow, bluesey type song, 
and I'm sure that Smokey would dig it. 
Side two opens with a few bars of "You", 
t>ntitled, appropriately enough, ."A Bit 
More Of You." Song number two is 
sense of youth. "The Silence" is an at­tempt to express the inner life of three people by creating within the film the t•ssentials of their external existence: 
through it, we come to see the balance and imbalance of our own Jives. The sadness and intimacy of "Cries and Whispers" accomplishes one of the most honest and poignant portraits of human relationships on film. 
It is Be•·gman's goal to "be one of tht> artists of the cathedral above the plains. I want to occupy myoielf making from storw a dragon's head, an angel or a devil, or perhaps a saint. it doesn't really matter: I feel the sanw enjoyment in each case. Wlwther I am a believer or an unbeliever. a Christian or a pagan, I am working along with l'Vl'r·ybody l'lse to construct a cathedral. because I am an artist and an artisan. and because I have learned to l'XIraet limbs, faces and bodies from stmw. I npver have to worry about thl' .iudgnwnt of my contemporaries: my first and last names arl' engraved nowhere, and they will disappear with me. But a small pari of my self will survive in the anonymous and triumphant totality. A dragon or· a devil, or perhaps a saint, what does it matter?" 
probably one of the few weak spots on the 
album. The music is fair, but the lyrics 
are very shallow in content, with Harrison 
singing "I can't stop thinking about you ... " 
over and over, as if his mind stalled on that 
line when he was composing the song. I'll 
let you guess what the title of the song is. 
"Tir·ed of Midnight Blue," the next song, is 
the best song on the album. The lyrics are 
strong. the music is good <especially the 
percussion work by Jim Keltner l, and 
Harrison's voice is strongest and clearest 
on this number. I wouldn't be surprized if 
this is the next selection for air play. 
The final offering on side two is "His N· 
anw Is Legs (ladies and gentlemen!". H 
arTison is assisted here very nicely by 
Willie Weeks on bass, Tom Scott on horns 
and Billy Preston on piano. This song's :: 
real mover. hut the lyrics are nearly un 
distinguishable. Listening to it. you fef'l II 
guys had a lot of fun recording it: it's onr 
of those songs that's not supposed to makt• 
sense. it's just supposed to sound good 
and "His Name Is Legs" succeeds in tha· 
rt>gard. 
So there you have it. George Harrison 
"Extra Texture." The latest release fron 
a singer that a lot of people said wa 
washt'd up after the release of his "Darl 
Horse" album. This disc should mak 
thl'm believers again. Some persona 
feelings on the album in general, aw 
where Harrison is heading? O.K. 
arrison is back, that's for certain, but I ft•< 
he has a long way to come to regain his ol 
style. which produced such classics a 
"Sonwthing" and "Here Comes The Sun.' 
I think that Harrison was so concernet 
with convincing the people that hi 
musical career wasn't a thing of thl'past 
hat he didn't put as much into the writin 
of the songs as he could have. With time, 
reel that he can begin to produce son~ 
similar to his Beatie days. Unit! ther 
W<' 'II have to satisfy our Harrison craving 
with good albums like "Extra Texture.' 
Songs like "You" and "Tired of Midnigt­
Hiue" make the prospects of the return , 
the old George Harrison brighter. 
Perhaps with a new record label, thin!,' 
will be different. Until then, we can on·· 
hope so, and buy "Extra Txture." And ( 
pick it up, it's well worth the mone. 
especially if you're a Harrison fan, or evl 
if you'd like to become one. 
albun.•s courtesy of Just for the Record 
~. "-. ,. 
.. 

·------------~----------------------~ -~ -­
the observer Monday, OctcJber 20, 1975
6 

New strategy planned 

CCUM holds conference 
The CUitholic Committee on llrban Ministry (CCUMl, in its fall l"onference. to be held at Notre Dame. Oct. 26-30, will attack the usual problem of social change with a new strategy this year-­coalition building. 
Barbara Williams, executive director of the Congressional Black Caucus. Washington, D.C., will deliver the keynote address Oct. 26, 8:15 p.m. 
Other major speakers will in­dude: Claire Randall, general secretary. National Council of Churches. Oct. 27,8:15 p.m.; Rev. Andrew Greeley, director, Center tor the Study of American Pluralism. National Opinion Hesearch Center. Oct. 28, 8:15 p.m.: Cardinal John Dearden, Archbishop of Detroit. Oct. 29, 8:15 
p.m. and Rev. J. Bryan Hehir, 
SMC-ND receive 

associate secretary. USCC Office of International Justice and Peace 
Oct. 30, at 9 p.m.  '  
I  
1  At  9  a.m.  Oct  29,  a  panel  

discussion of key issues for 1976 will be followed by strategy sessions to deal with those issues on state and national levels. 
Panel members will include l\1sgr. Geno Baroni, president, National Center for Urban Ethnic Affairs. and William Lucy, in­ternational secretary-treasurer, American Federation of State, Countv and Municipal Employees, 
Toy Shop readieS for Xmas•. $1 . 9 5 ;~1HF~~~~ c~~:~~ w:T~ I 
I 
fundS fO SUpport Toy Shop memorable and fun for• . J the patients they serve, according
B1centenn1a to Kathy Klingenberger, president St. 1\lary's College and Notre of the Mental Health Unit at 
I Dame have received $15,000 from Manan Colle15e. the Indiana Committee for the . Toy Shop 1~ a program -~~ere Humanities to help underwrite a g1fts are prov1d~d for hosp~tJhzed jointly-sponsored Bicentennial young people m the Chnstmas 
Fl'stival next March 7-11. season. The program will include an In interviews with patients on academic conference on the theme Nov. 8, the recipients of the gifts ··An Almost Chosen People: The and the types of gifts for each moral Aspirations of Americans," will be decided. All the in­with prominent speakers treating formation gathered will then be 
\'arious aspects of Americaa's sent to Thomas Weakley, MHAI political. cultural and moral director of the program. heritage.. Next. the volunteers will select 
The festival will involve the new gifts and sort the donated South Bend community and in-ones. All gifts are chosen for elude cultural arts events. Dr. young people, ages one to 16. Some 
Thomas P. Bergin, dean of con-merchants donate items from tinuing education at Notre Dame overstocked, discontinued, or and co~hairman of the steering slightly damaged but repaired College student volunteers, under the auspices of the Mental Health Association in Indiana, are working to make the Dec. 6, 1975, 
eommittee planning the festival, said a detailed program would be announced later. 
The grant was one of 28 totaling $128.3000 awarded recently by the Committee to support "public discussion programs that examine the cultural and historical background of current public issues." 

stock. Often organizations and individuals contribute used toys in 
good condition. ­
The student volunteers decide, depending upon their location and circumstances, whether to furnish gifts, buy them, or to employ a combination of the two methods. 
In some cases, several 
organizations cooperate with a 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF OCTOBER 2 7 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 213, Main Bldg. Interview times must be signed for in person. Law School sign-ups are at the Pre-Law Society Bulletin Boards, O'Shaughnessy Hall. The sign-up period at the Placement Bureau will be from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Thurs. 
OCT. 27 
Mon. 
-
OCT. 27/28 Mon/Tues. 
OCT. 28 
Tues. 
OCT. 29 
~ 
OCT. 29/30 Wed/Thurs. 
OCT, 30 
Thurs. 

Black &Veatch Consultins Ensineers. 
BM in CE, ChE, HE, EE, MENO., B of Arch. Harvard Universit!· Graduate School of Bus. Ad. B in all disciplines, Insurance Services Office. BM in Math. 
Peat 1 Harwick, Mitchell &Co. B in Acct. MBA with Acct. Background or concentration. 
Cabot Cor~oration; Stellite Division. 
Bin Mktg., Chern, Met. 

B. F. Goodrich C~anl· Chemical Division. 
B in HE and EE. BM in ChE and Chern. 
B. F. Goodrich Com~anl• BM in ME, ChE, CE, EE, MEIO. New York Univ. Graduate Business School. B in all disciplines. Travelers Inaurarce Com~anl· All BBA. 
Columbia Univ. · ,~aduate School of Buaineu. B in all disc~plines. Georgia Institute of Tech. College of Ind. ~t. B in ~11 disciplines, GTE Automatic Electric Inc. BM in EE or strong Camp. Sci, background. December grads only. 
Arthur Andersen &Co, B in Acct. MBA. 
ALCOA. BM in HE, EE, MEIO, Met. 
Whirl~ool Cor~ration. 
BM in HE, ChE, CE. 

Employer Information. Alternatives. Teaching. Summer. Action/Peace Corps/Vista. Federal Service. Room 213, Administration Bldg. 
AFL-Cio. both of Washington, D. 
C ..  and  Dr.  Grace  Olivarez,  
director  of  planning  for  New  
l\1Pxico.  

The five-day working conference 
also will include seminars and :----------------.,
workshops on current social issues I -~ and on coalition-building skills and PEACH TREE I applications. I • I 
All general sessions are open to I • DINING ROOM the public and will meet each I RANDALL' I evening in the ACC arena. I 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's 1 UN pER NEW MANAGEMENT faculty and students are invited to TUESDAy NIGHT SPECIAL I attend. ~ SPAGHETTI AND MEATBALLS & SALAD I 
• ALL YOU CAN EAT I 
fund raising affair. Dances, pizza parties, or other ingenious plans, with a new toy the price of ad­mission, are often good sources for gifts. 
According to Klingenberger, "Students who participate in the preliminary arrangements and in the Toy Shop itself invariably find it a very rewarding experience. Seeing the happiness of the patients is worth every bit of the effort the project requires." 
Orthodox pastor to display art 
Alexander Jasiukowicz, 
The pizza the world awaited! 
Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre 
Tryouts for Anna Cora Mowatt's FASHION 
Oct. 20. 21 at 7:30 in Moreau Little Theatre (St. Mary's). (Call backs Oct. 2.2) Open to all 
ND-SMC students. Copies of play available in 
speech and drama offices in Moreau and 
Washin1:1ton Halls. 
DINNER) 
.J 
~-----------­

277-1221 or 277-1222 I Ifor I 
I I




F!n~w~eP!!!!PE!fY I 
I 

ll...u.,.................. ~.......... .....~·~ ~ ...........~...JII~...... .n-...-·r·~~....................H 
BER~man 



ilhiD iEStiVHh 
OCT. 19-24 
MON. "Smiles of a Summer Night"-8 & 10 TUES. "Wild Strawberries" -8 & 10 WED. "The Silence" -8 & 10 FRI. "Cries & Whispers -7 & 10 
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM 
ADMISSION $1 
CINEMA 76 


-------------.,I 
I 
I I I I I I I I I 

wATCH OUR ADS ALL THIS I WEEK FOR AN EVENT THAT 1 
YOU WON'T BELIEVE  1  
(Save our valuable coupons.)  I I I I  

Monday, October 20, 1975 the observer 

Last sighted in 1974 
•

Abominable Snowman may exist lD Tibet 
BOSTON <AP> -The mys­Three months later, in Oct. long and almost five inches Cronin said he took pictures these lush. dense valleys be­terious Abominable Snowman, 1974. a Polish mountaineer and wide. climbed up a steep slope, of the prints before they melt­tw<'en the mountains, he said. if it exists, is probably an in­a guide claimed they saw foot­nossed the plateau and dis­ed. 
quisitive, ape-like animal, prints of the Abominable Snow­appeared down another slope. about the size of a man, that man during a mountain climb­They showed a fat big toe, four If the yeti exists, it might be walks on two legs and lives in ing expedition on Mt. Lhotse. smaller toes and a wide, round­a form of ape common hun­the forested valleys of the Pd heel. dreds of thousands of years 
llimalayas, according to a zoo-"I ean 't come out and say the ago. Cronin said. It could have
From the way the prints
. logist. veti exists," Cronin said in an died out everywhere but in the
\\'Pre arranged, it appeared the
interview. "But the evidence remote valleys of the Hima­
animal walked on two legs,
f<:dward W. Cronin Jr. bases points toward the existance of layas.his theory on an analysis of an ape." Cronin said. The depth of the footprints found during an ex­tracks suggested that it Other species of animals that pedition to study the wildlife of Cronin said he found the foot­WPighl'd about 165 pounds. live nowhere else are found in 
lht• remott• region of central prints in Dl'cember 1972, when Asia. lw was director of the Arun \'allt>y Wildlife Expedition. The
Tlw Abominable Snowman ­trip was sponsored by Educa­or ~·eli as it is known among tional I•:xpeditions Inter­tlw nwtmtain folk in the Hima­national. t.he Field Museum inlayas is fn•quently men-Chicago and several other do­1i01wd b~· natives of the moun­
nors.

tain valll•ys but has never been sepn bv outside scientists. It is ill' detaiTed his finding in an dt>snii>t•d by nativPs as a <lrticle in the November issue stocky. hairy ape with big teeth of The Atlantic Monthly. and a pointPd head. 
('ronin said the research par­
Till; yt>t i was last reported ty discovPred the footprints in spt•n in .July 1974 by a teen­tlw morning outside their tents agpd girl who said it knocked aftpr spt•nding the night at 12,­
lwr unconscious and killed five 000 fppt on Kongmaa La moun­~·aks shl' was shepherding in tain. thP Himalayan foothills adjoin­Ing MI. EvPrest. The prints. about nine inches 
ARMANDO, FORMERLY OF ROCCO'S BARBER SHOP, IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUS TO GIVE YOU THE CUT OR STYLE THAT YOU WANT 
c;lf-7.mando'J. !Ba7..be7.. & d-fai7.. Styfe Sh.op. 
OPEN SIX DAYS A WEEK MONDAY THRU FRIDAY 6 TO 5:30 • SATURDAY 6 TO 4 
PERSONALIZED SERVICE 
ARMANDO FEMIA 1437 N. IRONWOOD DR. PHONE 277-0615 
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 
HOMECOMING DANCE "WORLD OF FANTASY" THEME 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24 9P.M.-1A.M. STEPAN CENTER 
·• "SAHARA" from Chicago will entertain 
·• cheese, apples, french bread for everyone 
* 
semi-formal attire suggested 

* 
tickets on sale at the dining halls during dinner 


$5.00 Per Couple DON'T MISS THIS FESTIVE AFFAIR!! 
--·--·--·-··-·-·-· ...... 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES  D•·spPrall'ly nPPd 6 10 USC tickPts.  N>'l'dPd 1 usc tick!'t. Call Jt>an 4·  
1 Cl1icaqo lickt>ts for sal<'. Jack  P,1y wo•ll Tom 1795.  ~486 or Mary AnnP 4·4165.  
Pn•qnanl c1nd didn't nwan to be?  3597.  
C.1ll Airlhriqht 288 7640.  
Do'SpPratPiy nt'Pd 1 USC and Navy  W,lnl<'d. G.A. Navy , Ga. Tt>ch ,  
For Sale: 2 snow tires 13" for $11.  tickPI. Call Pam 4 4161.  Pill. Call 1652.  
Pock up or purchase Bio Club T  232 4569.  
~hirts Mon. Oct. 20 and Tues. Oct.  
71; Galvin stockroom, 2.4:30.  No'<'d $$ $? I n<>ed 2 G.A. USC tix.  Nt'l'd 6 USC G.A.tickt>ls. 233·5373.  
For Salt': 4 Chicago tickets. Call  C1ll Brian at 3260.  
I ••arn ~port parachulinq the safe  Tom at 3321 or 3322.  
w.>y at Oxbow Air Sports. Ct>nler. 2·  I still net'd 1 4 G.A. fix for any  
Wl'l'k spo•cial $35 jump course plus $15 for first jump Contact Dale at 683 8980 or John at I 782 3500.  4 Navy lix for sale. I need 5 Tech lix. Trade, S!',l. buy. Bill 1486.  NI'Pdt>d G.A. Southt'rn Cal fix. Call 6896.  homP qamo•. 1327.  
Nt'PdPd on!' qood ticket for Bt>ach  
AccuratP, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232·0746  For Sale: 1 G.A. USC ticket. Best offer 6986.  NPedPd: two G.A. Southern Cal tickets. Please call John at 3467.  Boys concert. Call Maggie, 277· 0794.  
Typinq $.35 per page. Call Dan 212· 5549.  FOR RENT  N'Pt>d four G.A. tix for Ga. Tech qaml'. Call 4·5740.  Must bt> in ConnPclicut or vicinity by Friday, Nov. 7. Plt>as€' call EIIPn at 277 ·0794, if you can  
provide a ridP that WP!'kt>nd.  
Flanner Records has the new : Paul Simon, Dave Mason, Pink Floyd, Bruce Springsteen Herbie Hancock and Linda Ronstadt. Also, any other album not in stock  For Rt>nl: 3 loom suit!' in home of young couple for single student. Private bath, kilchPn privileges. Call 289 9500 afeter 5 P.M.  Wanted: G.A. So. Cal tickets. Any numbt>r of them. Gary, 3075. No'Pd 3 USC tickets. Call Mik!'  DESPERATELY NEED 2 G.A. USC TIX. ANY PRICE. CALL 1942.  
can be ordered. Call 1488 or come  olflo'r 6 P.M. 288 0088.  
to 807.  WANTED  
All lrwt>d is 1 G.A. USC ticket. 7937  
LPqal aid: for t>ligibiP N D and SMC  I'm looking for four qood sPats to  plPdSP!  
sludt>nls under supervision of  Nl't>d Pitt tickets. Call 3332 or  lhl' Bt'ach Boys concPrt. Call MikP  
,11tornpy. COME TO University  3334.  olftPr 6 P.M. 288 0088.  
RPft>rrals.  3 G.A. Ga. Tech tix to tradE' for  
Farley Motel is filled for So. Cal  NI'Pd 2 GA tickets for Navy. Call  Nl'l'd two USC tickE'Is for our  Navy or sell. 8698 Charlie.  
weekend  Bob at 288 3472.  sislt>rs. (stud!'nt or G.A.) Call  
To the!-ntvmoloqystudent who got ,, fll'a from my bassett hound Muffy on T ut>sda y outside of  Nl't>d 2 G.A. tix for Navy or Gt>orgia Tech. Call Tom D., 287·  Coops or Pat 1654. Do'Spt>ratt>ly nt'ed 4 G.A. or 2 G.A.  No'Pd only 1 Soulht>rn Cal ticket ilnd or 2 Ga. TPch fix. Call Jack 1131.  
Galvin, please call Terri at 287·  0544  and 2 stud€'nl tix for Navy. Will  
6638.  pay wt>ll. Call AileE'n at 1341.  4 G.A. tickets to Navy and USC.  
FOR SALE  Desperately need two So. Cal tickets. Call Bob 3665.  Cryinq for 2 Navy tickE'Is 6896.  Call Marly or Jo<> at 287·5113.  
HPip! N«>ed 2 or 3 G.A. tix to Ga.  
2·bPdroom home; fireplace, five minutes from campus, $120 per month plus utilities. Call 232-7372:  Need 4or 5 USC tix. Call 4·5483.  Will trad!' 1 studPnt USC ticket and $$for 2 G.A. Navy fix. Chuck 1380.  Tt•ch or Navy. Call Jim 1188.  
Qualtty Stereo components at 20-40  HELP! I NEED 8 USC FOOT BALL TICKETS, GENERAL  NPPd 3 USC fix. Call Dan 1219.  LOST AND FOUND  
percent savings. RMS Audio; 321  ADMISSION OR STUDENT.  
S. Main; 288-1681; 12-7P.M.  WILL PAY$$$. CALL NOW! 289  NPt>d Southt>ni Cal, Navy, and Pitt  Lost: Small Male puppy. Black  
9174.  tick!'ls. Call Chris 272·1400.  with white chest. Leeper Park  
For Sate: S Chicago tickets. 2 in third row main floor, 3 In Section 7 lower arena. Best offer, call Sean  WanfPd: 2 G.A. tick€'ts for USC. Ask for Ron 9 5 only. Call collect 312 482 8820.  No•Pdt•d: only one USC ticket. Call 7471.  area. Oct. 11 Needs medication. Reward 233-9122.  
at 3510.  Found: onE' SMC class ring. Call  
FOR Sale: 4 Chicago tickets. Call Steve at 1024.  NPI'd 2 G.A. tickets for Ga. TE'ch. C.1ll SIPVt' 8851.  NPPd ridt> to Pittsburgh Sun. after USC qam<'. Call 272.3294.  PutziP 287 ·3528.  

~···········~·· 
r_.·-!IJere IS a \ : difference!!! ~ 
: ~MifE FOil: e
• MC A'J 
Owtt lS rears •
• ft of 11perotnee : 
: OAT --~~CISS : :. LS··:r '""II~IIIIlS : 
" VOIUIIUIIOUS hom1
: GRE :
,,ucly;.,....~, 
: A'~"GSB Counu thlf 1rr •
• II cons11nllr ulldlltd • 

:. OCAJ 
T1pt r:ohhu I•' :.. 
rt••••s ot Cln·.

: cn•·:r 
ltnons lftd lor • ••
rft of suppltmtnt.
: FLEX ....,.,~,, : 
• M1k• ups for
: ECFMG "''""d '""0"' : : SAT : : NAT'L MED BD~ : 
• Most classes start 8 weeks • e p"or to Ex~m e 
• 
Spring & Fall compact• • 

• 
Courses in Boulder & Denve· : 


: TEST DATES : e MCAT 5·76 NMB'S 6·76 e e OAT 1·76 ECFMG 1·7(. e e LSAT l2·75 FLEX 12·75 e • GRE 12·75 ocat 1·76 • e ATGSB 1·76 CPAT 12·75 e : SAT 12· 75 VAT 12·75 : 
• 
INDIANAPOLIS e 

• 
6610 Grnnoturo Drov• • : lnd•onopoho, lnd 462:'0 : • 1Jt71 842-1267 • 


• CHICAGO CENTER • 



~~:!" ~ 
: EOUCATIONAl CENTER e 
• 1($-ffl'f'fPAIIIAh()N •

-:·::;::::.... .. ,_;j
12121 :1»-13110 •• 8r.,-.;hfl " ._..,,00 2-}. ..t"•l••• ' 
Lost: Pair of qlasst>s, black co~·,o·, liqhl tan framl' by Brownson 
Lost. 1 pair 40id, wirP rimnwd <rlasso•s at Sf Mary's bPIWt'Pn Lo•mans and the dininq hall. Call 234 6352. 
Lost· qold charm braceiPt. Litflt> !warts and onl' big heart with a whitt• rose. Happy Birthday in scription. Plo•asP call Bill at 8943. 
Lost: silvo•r ID bract•IPI, narnP Patricia. Cilll 6788. 
Lost a silvPr rwcklact' with 3 rt'd stoni'S on it. If found, pieast' rl'turn it. 11 was,, sp«>cial qifl. Call 2184, Susan. 
Lost qold chMrn braci'IPI wo1t1 orw <told "H.1ppy Birthday" char01· Call 7628 
PERSONALS 
MikP Lyons, star of Indians os tl lrul' what you Sl'l' os what you qpf? Oh Boy! ! J, J. & N 
All V P of D.A 's Inc. WP'II wosh you a happy 21st if you'll do lfw. following. I l. danet• for us in your qrass skirt; 7l. qivP us !Jack our 11amnwr; 3). lake down that fish!; .f). pull a PrPS. ,1nd COfllt' Sl't' Zip!! LovPfhPD.A.'sof521. P.S Havea H,1ppy! 
Guy with my qold ring from crPw practice call 5124. 

.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------------------------~------------------­
8 the observer Monday, October 20, 1975 

Irish do it again, nip Falcons 31-30 
by Bill Brink _ . Sports Editon-Mike Worden scrambled in on the first play, making it 10-Q with 7: 12 · 
If you turned off your television remaining in the half. Then when set after three quarters in last Devine inserted Joe Montana at weeks contest between Notre quarterback for ND with 1:11 to go, Dame and North Carolina, you Miller intercepted his 2nd pass and should have learned your lesson. set up another Lawson field goal 
The Irish have taken up the habit with but :18 seconds left. Ben of proving that old adage that 'the Martin's Cadets took a 13-3 margin game's never over until the last into the locker room at in­second ticks off the clock', because termission. for the second straight week they Again the Irish offense was scored three touchdowns in the making the little mistakes that fourth quarter to salvage an ex-have hindered them all season and eiting come-from-behind victory, have kept them from fulfilling as they edged the Air Force their potential as far as putting Academy 31-30 in Colorado Springs points on the scoreboard is con­Saturday afternoon. cerned. The defense meanwhile 
"I don't know if words can ex-was having trouble getting to the press how proud I am of this quarterback and protecting team." said Notre Dame coach against Worden's seam-splitting Dan Devine, whose exultation was passe.s. marred by rumors that he was Nevertheless, the Irish opened t­going to be fired this week. "We've he second half as if they were been through two grueling weeks, ready to take charge. On their fifth but they never lost their spirit." play of the third quarter, fullback 
It wouldn't have been hard to. Heavens slanted right and headed The Irish once again failed to click down the sidelines, winding up offensively for three quarters and with a 54 yard touchdown run. '# .• ~ ··-~­
~< --~·><l this time the defense failed to keep Reeve's conversion made it 13-10 ~~"*' them close. ND was all but out of with 1:52 gone in the half. •• 
it. trailing :30-10 with 13:30 left in But when Notre Dame got the the game. It was then that the of-ball back again on their own 19, Irish halfback Mark Mclane streaks downfield, connecting on a 66 yard pass play with Joe Montana tense got on track, maneuvering there was that man again, Jim in Saturday's 31-30 victory over The Air Force. for three scores, while the defense Miller. The junior cornerback ran thing else," said Irish halfback AI halfback AI Hunter went of( the made numerous substitutions. tightened up and blanked the in front of Montana's pass to Ted Hunter. Notre Dame must have right tackle and down the right The Irish outgained the Air Falcons the remainder of the Burgmeier, picking it off at the 24 been plenty scared. Gaining Force in total yards 461 to 341, 320
side. About halfway to the goaline game. and returning it to the 17. Five possession with 13:30 remaining in he made a beautiful cut back to 90 on the ground. Worden was 19 The first half performance by plays later tailback Mike Reiner of 34 in the air for 251 yards, while
the game, they began to execute. towards the field and dashed all 
the Irish was no different from th-took it in from the one. Lawson Montana threw two passes and the way to the Air Force two yard Montana and starter Rick Slager t­l'ir previous first halves this made it 20-10 with 9:54· remaining used the running of Steve Orsini to line. otaled 141 passing yards. Montana
Montana sneaked for one, th­

seasun, with the offense moving th-in the third period. The Falcons move the Irish to the Falcon three. hit on 7 of 18 for 134 of those.
C'n Heavens took it across for the 

t> ball, but failing to put it in the end forced-the Irish to punt, and The sophomore QB took it in Defensively, Miller tied a Falcon
score. Dave Reeve added another 

zone. They managed only a 31-Worden unloaded a 38 yard pass to himself from there. Reeve added record with his three interceptions 
extra point to give the Irish their 

yard field goal by Dave Reeve with split end John Frozena to NO's 23. the extra point to make it 30-17 with final 31-30 margin. in one game. End Dave Scott and :1: 12 left in the half. Much of the They settled for a 10:26 left. Then things started to "It was an option right," said linebacker Mark Kenney were also credit for that however goes to 41 yard Lawson three-pointer to ·open up. Hunter of his run. "We ran away standouts. For the Irish, reserve Falcon cornerback Jim Miller, make it 23-10 with 2:59 left in the The teams traded punts, then Air from the strength of our offense. I linebacker Pete Johnson, starting who was in the Irish' hair all day. quarter. Force moved to the Irish 35, where his first game in place of injured
saw the flow coming and cut back After the Cadets opened the The Falcons weren't through Jim Monahan fumbled and NO's inside. I didn't see the guy who Steve Heimkreiter, who replaced scoring on Dave Lawson's 45-yard yet. On the Irish's first play from Jay Achterhoff recovered. tackled me." injured Doug Becker, had an ex­field goal early in the second scrimmage, Heavens lost the ball Montana threw two incomplete Air Force fought back to their cellend debut, chalking up 14 quarter (giving Lawson 43 in his and Linwood Mason recovered it passes, then had his next attempt own 46, but four straight in­tackles. Ross Browner, still suf­career, one more than former for Air Force at the ND twenty. A intercepted by, you guessed it, Jim complete passes gave ND the ball fering from an ankle injury, saw record holder Rod Garcia of sack by Fry and a delay of game Miller at midfield. Miller returned and the victory. rxtensive action, though he was 
Stanford>, Miller went to work. He penalty made it third and 21 from it to the ND 15, where he was hit "No team deserved an upset not planned on before the game. stopped Mark McLane on a pitch-the 33, but Worden hit end Paul hard by Steve Orsini and fumbled. more than that one out there Hoss Christiansen, Randy out on a crucial fourth and one Williams on a fly pattern, and Pat Pohlen fell on it for the Irish. today," said a dejected Ben Harrison and Joe Restic alternated 
situation with the Irish on the Air Lawson made it 30-10 with still1:43 Montana took over again, and hit Martin after the game. "I never, I at free safety. Res tic also handled l<'orce six. On ND 's next to go in the third period. Mark McLane coming out of the mean never had a team play so the· punting duties and averaged possession, he recovered Jerome "When it gets down to the fourth backfield and McLane skirted hard. You've got to-give Notre 51.6 yards, setting a new Notre Heaven's fumble on Notre Dame's quarter and times running out, you down the sideline 66 yards to the Dame credit though, this is two Dame single-game record. sixteen, and Falcon quarterback execute out of fear more than ,anv-· Falcon seven. Tight end Ken weeks in a row they've come from Several injuries inflicted ND, the 
MacAfee hauled in the touchdown behind in the fourth quarter to win. worst one a hip-pointer and pass on the following play. Reeve I'd have to say that this week they sprained knee by Heavens. Guard made it 30-24 with 5:29 to go. were more fortunate though." AI Wujciak, Orsini and Montana 
Air Force then put the ball in the "I've been at this business too . also suffered hip pointers and th­air instead of trying to run out time long to ever give up," said Devine. ough Montana is likely to be ready 
*Observer 

on the ground, but Notre Dame's "And no one with us gave up Saturday, Heavens, Orsini and defense held tight, and the Falcons Pither. I said that "last week's Wujciak are still "in doubt. The Irish will spend the week
punted to their own 45. By this game was my greatest victory, but 
for traditional

time, everyone had no doubt been I'II have to revise that. This is the preparing the called to their television sets with happiest I've seen our team. We're grudge match with Southern revitalized hopes of another pooped but proud." California, scheduled for this 
miracle. Sure enough the famed Notre Dame had reason to be Saturday in South Bend. Irish luck had not run out. pooped. The high altitude of the "I have a tremendous respect for 
Gaining possession with 4:34 Academy, which is nestled into Southern Cal," said Devine. "T­remaining in the game, the Irish Rocky Mountains, had the players hey're a very skilled football team wasted no time. On the first play sitting on the bench taking oxygen and I'm looking forward to my first 
throughout the game. Both teams USC game." 





Sports 
Jayvees beat Illinois 28-7 
toThe Notre Dame Junior Varsity offense with the field position Adams added the conversiOn 

remained unbeaten as they needed for the second touchdown clos.e the Irish scorinJ! at 28. stopped the varsity reserves of the drive. The Irish started from the The Illini score came after time l"niversity of Illinois on the rain­Illini 32, following a short punt ran out. A fumbled punt gave I­soaked astroturf of Cartier Field from the Illinois end zone. Five 
llinois the ball at the Notre Dame by the score The young 29 in the waning moments. With
of 28-7 rushing plays later, Frank Bonder 
nine seconds left the Orange and
Irish overcame six turnovers in took it over from the 2-yard line for defeating the Illini as they upped what turned out to be the winning White ran the halfback-{)ption and their season record to 4-Q. Eri Rouse the intended receiver
touchdown. McLaughlin followed The Irish Offense started slowly, with the extra point to provide the was interfered with at the Notre turning over the ball in their own 14-0 halftime score. Dame six-yard line as time ex­territory on the first three pired. The rules provide that the
Tom Parise returned the short 
possessions. A staunch defense, game must not end on a defensive
second half kickoff 23 yards to the 
and a couple of missed Illinois field Notre Dame 45, from where the penalty, so the Illinois team was goals, kept the game scoreless offense marched 55 yards in 9 granted one more play. They capitalized on the opportunity, as
until the Irish offense could plays for the score. Parise carried become untracked. On their fourth Jim Wigmore found John Peach in
the ball three times for the last ten 
possession of the soggy afternoon yards, his touchdown coming on a the right corner of the end zo'1e, the scoring strike being the first points 
the offensive corps marched 80 two-yard smash over left tackle. 
scored on the Irish Junior Varsity
yards in 9 plays, with a Jay McLauhglin's kick gave the Irish a 
Palazola to Pete Pallas pass defense this season. Greg Posios
21-0 lead. The final Notre Dame 
covering the final19 yards. During tally came early in the fourth closed the scoring at 28-7 with the 
the drive, running back Steve Sch­period following an Illinois fumble Illinois conversion. 
mitz accounted for 52 yards with a that was recovered by the Irish's After the game, Notre Dame 29 yard screen pass and runs of 16 Don Malinak at the Illinois 29. AI Coach Greg Blache was full of and seven yards. Pat superlatives for his young players. 
Bucci carried four times to the 16, '.IcLaughlin 's extra point supplied and on the next play, quarterback "We have good personnel on JV the final point of the first period. Rusty Lisch ran the option to level this year, better than in the The Irish defense kept their op­perfection, keeping the ball around past," commented Blache, and ,,;ments bottled-up for the remain-left end and skittering into the end added, "They work hard and are 
Safety John Dubenetzky collaborates with Ross Browner to tackle
dedicated."

.. of the half, and supplied the zone for the score. Walk-on Bill Falcon quarterback Mike ."Jorden. 






