OD The Inside 
SMC parietals 
•.. page 1 
Helen Reddy 
... page 5 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX No. 77 Monday, February 10, 1975 

Post-Labor Day start favored 
Seventy-four percent of the students responding to a These 568 students comprised a proportionate The issue of the Pre-Labor Day start did effect many survey on the Academic calender favor a post-Labor representation of the various undergraduate classes students in their attitudes towards the necessity of a Day Start. The poll, conducted by the Studetn and graduate enrollment, with conisderable effort mid-semester break. The majority of students ad­GovernmPnt Academic Commission, also shows the 75 taken to separate the full-time from the part-time vocating a mid-semester break attributed its need to 
percent of the faculty favor starting after Labor students. the Parly arrival in August. Day. A plurality of both groups favor two short breaks. A similar computerized survey was taken of the Sixty-seven percent of the freshman surveyed felt "ThP calendar survey was conducted by student the need of a mid-semester break, while only 56 per­
faculty and deans, who displayed a greater response to nwmhers of the Academic Council and other interested the questionnaire. The 18 percent randoinsample cent of the total respondents felt that a break was student volunteers in order to find out what are the received a 92 percent response. nl'cessary. prevailing attitudes towards calendar issues," Jim Faculty response indicated that 46 percent felt that
The major concerns of the survey centered upon the 

Ambrose. student government academic com­the week-long mid-semester break did not have any
Pre--Labor Day start of this year's calendar, the 

l'ffect whatsovever on their classf,s, while 31 percent
missioner. stated yesterday. value of a mid-semester break, and the length of the 
··wt-have strived to conduct this poll in a very Thanksgiving and Christmas breaks. l'Xperienced positive effects, and only 17 percent scientific manner. in order that the Academic Council noticed negative effects. 
It also included a list of four options for the calendar 

and Father Burtchaell will give the survey opinions A cross-tabulation was computed to determine the
lor the Fall of 1975, three from previous years with the

grl'atl'r consideration than in past years." relation between the felt need for a mid-semester
addition of one new one, asking for a first and second

Although calendar polls like these have been con­break and the preference to a Pre-or Post-Labor Day
prefen•nce.

ducted in previous years, their accuracy in reflecting start. Of the faculty that said the mid-semester break 
Aplurality of both the student and faculty factions of

student opinion was questioned due to the allegedly had no effect. 80 per cent opted for a Post-Labor day
thl' poll preferred the calendar of Fall 1973, composed

unscientific manner in which the surveys were taken. start. However .only slightly more than one third of the 
WM~i~ with the mm~~n in the~---------------------------------~ 
Social Science Training Lab, a random 7 per cent of the total student body of 8300, including graduate students as well as undergrads, were chosen to complete a questionnaire drawn up by the Academic Commission of the student government. 
These 568 students comprised a 
proportionate representation of the 
various undergraduate classes and graduate enrollment, with conisderable effort taken to separate the full-time from the part-time students. 
Of the total 568 randomly chosen students, only 73 percent responded to the questionnaire. "The greater part of the 27 
percent who did not respond were 
graduate students,seniors, and off-campus students, many of whomwere unlisted in the directory and therefore could not be 
contac~d." Ambroseex~a~ed. 
STl'DENTS FACULTY CALENDAR: YK\H 1!\ EFFECT lin favor) (in favor) 

1. PI'P-Labor Day start Fall '7-t 2U lll'r l'f'ntLong mid-spmpster break 
Short Thanksgiving break 
Post-Labor Day start ProposPd

~. :10 pt"r ct"nt ::n JH'r Cl'nt 
No mid-sPmester brPak 
Long Thanksgiving break :1:1 pf'l' cpnt :11 Jll'r Ct'nt

:1. Post-Labor Day start Fall 'i:l Short mid-st'mester break Short Thanksgiving break 
'72 11 
No mid-st'nu•ster break Short Thanksgiving break Somf'what t"arlier finish to 

~-Post-Labor Day start Fall 11 per cent 1wr ct-nt 
~~~lli_P_s_f'_m_f'_s_~_r_.~-~~~~~~~-~-~~~-~-~~-~-~~~~ iL 
of the group that felt positive effects voted for the present 1974-75 Calendar,given the choice of the four calendars. Thirty-six percent of this same group would opt for the four-day break of last year's calendar Eighty eight percent of those that cited the mid-semester break as t•.,necessary wanted a Post-Labor day s: .~rt. 
Last semester, 77 percent of the total student body left the campus for mid­semester break, and 66 per cent left over Thanksgiving. 
The status of the student proved to be 
indicative in the choice of calendars. 
Forty-one percent of the freshman sur­
veyed favored the Pre-Labor Day option, 
while only 31 percent of the graduate student and 16 percent of all the sophomores, juniors, and seniors favored 

Working w1th the computers in the Social Science of a Post-Labor day start, a short mid-semester break "Most of the original 27 percent who did not respond Training Lab. a random 7 per cent of the total student and a short Thanksgiving break. wPre seniors and grad students, by and large," Am-body of R300, including graduate students as well as Tht> Pre-Labor day start of this year's academic brose emphasized. "If all the results had been undergrads. were chosen to complete a questionnaire calendar posed problems for some students and faculty available. then there may have been much stronger <irawn up by the Academic Commission of the student nwmhers as well. Seventy three percent of those sentiment for a Post-Labor Day start." governmmt. intPrviewl'd said thel're-Labor Dav start did not affect 
Working with the computers in the Social Science att<.>mpts to find summer empJOy.ment. The reactions varied considerably among the classes Training Lab. a random 7 percent of the total student llowPver. only 33 percent of the students stated that as to the type of mid-semester and Thanksgiving body of ll300. including graduate students as well as there had been no loss of income, while 47 percent breaks desired. Fifty percent of the seniors polled undt'rgrads. Wt're chosen to complete a questionnaire 1•stimatt'd there to have been a loss in personal income wanted a longer break at Thanksgiving. The majority drawn up by the Academic Commission of the student of more than $100.00. of sophomores and juniors, along with the grads,went governmPnt. ThP faculty response showed a majority, 74 percent, for the third calendar with the two short breaks. 
to be in favor of starting classes after Labor Day, while 

Thl' Academic Commission is composed of seventy­only 23 percent were against this action. The sixty Ambrose noted that "the students and faculty were three nwmbers. consksting of thirty-three top ad­pl'rcent of the faculty who taught in the summer in overwhelming agreement for returning for the ministrators. thirty-three faculty members, two st>ssion reported they found the Pre-Labor Day start second semester at the same time, regardless graduate students. and five undergraduates. burdensome. which day before Chri'stmas the first semester ends." 
Roybal: Ford guilty of benign neglect 
by KPvin McCormick Hoybal stated that he realizes great misuse of power. The Ap­Starr HPporter spending reform is a slow, time­propriations Committee, which consuming process. As a member must approve all spending, has President Ford is guilty of of the House Appropriations tremendous power to make following the Nixon tradition Committee. he helped write the changes. He said that "by using OF "benign neglect" of social Supplemental Appropriations Act the power of the purse, the needs by cutting federal aid to in 1974, which improved the Appropriations Committee could social and educational programs educational opportunities of be the most powerful force in Congressman Edward Roybal (d­Spanish-speaking children by Congress behind any new social Cal.) said Friday night in the developing bi-lingual programs in change inthe U.S. In the past, the library auditorium. Spanish-speaking areas. committee has not been used in the 
Citing President Ford's Last . year, the program needed best interest of the poor and the proposed cut of the Health, 135 million dollars to operate ef­oppressed." Education and Welfare Depart­fectively. It received $75 million Roybal stated that by initiating ment's budget by 1.2 billion from Congress. This year, Roybal investigations, his committee can dollars, Roybal stated that "this and other supporters of the quickly bring about change and action will jeopardize the entire program had to fight for $10 cited an example. social program in the United million increase. Several years ago, Mexican­States." He added that under Roybal indicated that while his Americans complained about Ford's proposal, "maternal and struggle was going on, the treatment they received crossing child health care programs, production of the controversial B-1 the border between Mexico and the education for the handicapped, and bomber was easily approved, U.S. Under Roybal's insistance, a medicaid and food stamp "even though its projected price subcommittee of the Ap­payments would be severely cut." jumped from 18 billion dollars to 42 propriations Committee held 
billion dollars and experts say it hearings in San Diego to in­
Roybal called for an end "to will be obsolete by the time vestigate the charges. Shortly wasteful and illogical spending" in production is completed." after the subcommittee produced both domestic programs and This year, Roybal proposed a bill its report, the offensive practices foreign aid. "Presently, the which, if passed, would cut the were stopped. United States spends over one defense budget 10 per cent and Discussing the problem of illegal 
million dollars a year training eliminate some "wasteful and aliens crossing the border from foreign technicians to handle illogical spending." He said the Mexico, Roybal accused former try." 
the aliens to "slip across themodern sophisticated military main reason for legislative Attorney General William Saxbe of He also questioned the timing of border when they are needed andequipment," he said. inaction is that "there is no "making it a big issue to help the increased apprehension of then deport them when all the work He noted that "over $500 democracy in Congress. If the conceal the rampant corruption in illegal aliens "after the farming is finished. Some Mexicans workmillion is spent on the construction chairman of the committee doesn't the Department of Immigration." season is over and there is no more 
on a farm for two weeks, are
. of schools and hospitals in foreign like a bill, it stays on the bottom Roybal added that he had agricultural work to be done. The countries, while similar domestic of the agenda and is never "documented proof that several · farm workers are being exploited turned in to the officials and programs in the U.S. are forced to discussed." illegal aliens paid $250 to Im­by the farmers." According to deported without ever being pc; a close due to lack of federal funds." According to Roybal, this is a migration officials, who in turn Roybal. arrangements are made day's wage." 

the observer Monday, February 10, 1975 
warld briefs 
LOS ANGELES <UPil -Former President Richard Nixon will soon receive from a publisher a $175,000 advance for his memoirs, the Los Angt-lt>s Times said Sunday. 
DUBLIN <UPIJ --The outlawed Irish Republican Army Sunday 
night announced an indefinite cease-fire in its five-year war to 
drive British troops from Northern Ireland. 
SYDNEY. Australia <UPil --A seven-foot white shark tore a leg off an 11-year~ld boy and killed him before the eyes of his mother as the boy swam off a beach, police reported Sunday. 
an campus taday 
2:30 pm, meeting, college council, college of science, room 208 center for continuing education 
3:30 pm, lecture, "the sociology of knowledge and the decline of protestant theology in america" by prof. van harvey, faculty lounge 4 pm, colloquium, "methodological aspects of single subject research" (part II will be given feb. 11) by donald baer, room 119, haggar hall 7:30pm, lecture, "ground water hydrology" by dr. neil v. weber, carroll hall, madeleva memorial B pm, travelogue series, "all around australia" by ed jones, o'laughlin auditorium, tickets $2 
B: 10 pm, basketball, united states air force academy at notre dame, ace 
'~------------------------------------------·--' 
SMAND to release study 
by JPH Arndt 
Starr RPporter 
The St. Mary's and Notre Dame <SMANDl Council will soon release the results of their study into the problems which exist in the relationship between the two schools particularly regarding the place of women. The twelve­woman committee is currently formulating its answers to both why the difficulties exist, and how they may be resolved. 
The investigation began a little over a year ago, according to Sr. .John Miriam .Jones, assistant to the provost , when contact was made with various members of the SMC administration. 
"We discussed the benefits to be gained from bringing women from both schools together to decide if there is a problem. and, if so, what its causes might be," Jones stated. 
With Stevie Wernig, assistant to the vice president for student affairs at St. Mary's, Jones questioned women from both campuses about the merits of such a study. "We talked to womer who felt closely allied in some wp· to both schools; many had spen two years at St. Mary's an' transferred to Notre Dame.· explained Jones. 
As a result, a group of interestP women sent out a letter to womL._ from the two campuses. The letter called for the creation of a Women's Council, and requested a response from anyone who would like to serve on such a council. "The reaction was very positive," Jones said. 

"This fall," she continued, "we followed-up the responses and a series of organizational meetings were conducted." About 30-40 women attended these meetings, held at St. Mary's. 
Deeming it advantageous to work with smaller numbers, a core council was formed, which became the present SMAND Council. 
It consists of five women from Notre Dame; Terry Auca, Kathy Buckley, Melissa Erkins, Diana Merten, and Sally Smith; five women from St. Mary's: Dorothy Dwyer, Katie Kearney, Cecilia Michel, Sll i:a O'Brien and Tricia Wright; Jones and Wernig. 

Study in Guadalajara, Mexico 
The GUADALAJARA SUM~ER SCHOOL. a fullv accred1teo UNi VERSITY OF ARIZONA progran;, will offer June 30 to August 9 ,lf1thropology. art. educatlo~< lolk· lore. geography. hrstory, govern· 
ment. IJnguage and literature. TUI t1or and fees, Sl90; board and room w1th Mexican family S245. Wr1te to GUADALAJARA SUMMER SCHOOL. 413 New Psychology, Un1vers1ty of Anzona, Tucson, An zona 85721. 





NICKlE'S 
NOW FEATURING 
POUND CHARCOAL GRILLED 

HAMBURGERS 
Serving from 11 :30 a.m. daily 
SPRING BREAK TRIP TO 

MONTEGO BAY JAMAICA 
ROUND TRIP VIA AIR JAMAICA FROM DETROIT DAYS, 7 NIGHTS AT LUXURIOUS MONTEGO BAY HOLIDAY INN MARCH 22-29 $332 per person . $50 DEPOSITS DUE BY FRI. FEB 11! CALL 272-9895 OR STOP BY S.U. TICKET OFFICE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. SPONSORED BY ST. JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY 


Monday, February 10, 1975 
the observer 

~-------------------------,
Saturated with violence 1BASKETBALL SPECIAL 1 1 1 
Williams criticizes societyI I
AFTER THE GAME coME To· 

cinema, treaties -depicts only evil force which challenges theby Robert Jacques violence, thus giving Western man equality. Williams hypothesizedStaff Reporter 
"a continuous and exclusive view that for this reason idealism rarely "In public schools today students of himself as animalistic, violent, appears in contemporary 
i I J & J DINER II 
are guaranteed a balanced diet for alienated, and anihilistic ." literature. a healthy body. So too do the Violence alone, however, Williams feels that everyone is I
I 

students need a balanced in­Williams argued is not the cause of not socially and intellectually tellectual diet. The problem with the current problem. Rather it is prepared to read works by such I ANY OMELETTE. (INCL. WESTERN)I contemporary education is that it the context in which the violence authors as Sarte, Becket and rests solely upon the con­appears. In citing Shakespeare, Genet. These books, he said, are 
I HASH BROWNS, TOAST, COFFEE I
temporary," stated Professor Williams said that there is , "A only for "tough, well-balanced Duncan Williams of the University balance of the light and dark, hope adult minds." If they are not of Rockford Ill. in his speech and despair. In the modern body of limited to this group of people, he I MUSIC all for I Sunday evening. literature that balance is feels that society will end up Williams, the noted author of missing." consisting of psychologically I PINBALL $ 1ONLY WITH THIS AD I several books including Trousered Williams stated, "Contemporary disturbed and semi-educated 
I (REGULARLY $1.80)1
Apes and Sick Literature in a Sick literature is an attack of one of the people. 
I ANY MON -THURS
Society. was the first speaker in a last holdouts of individuality: Yet in no way does Williams 
l11 PM-11 AM 327 N. MICHIGAN I
series running this spring spon­privacy. Men are most nearly consider himself to be an advocate sored by the Academic Com-equal when copulating, mastur­of censorship. "Censorship cannot 
·--------------------------·
mission. bating, excreting, and urinating. work," he said. It can't be en­
Williams saw current Western There is a trend towards forced; unless it is on a global society as saturated with violence egalitarianism. It is also a scale which is quite impossible and and a lack of moral restraint. He regression to Puritanism and a those persons advocating control in part put the responsibility upon lack of humor and balance." of the press want to censor but not the artists' shoulders, explaining According to Williams, modern be censored themselves." that. "Art not only as a mirror artists claim that in order to Williams does not want to see reflects social and cultural values, equalize society, people must modern literature and art hidden but also molds society." disobey their parents, commit from the public, but rather would 
He contended that most con­adultery or fornication, covet and like to see it balanced by the temporary art -books, plays, steal. The ideal thus becomes an (continued on page 6) 
SMCStudent Asseinblyproposes addition to Board of Regents 
field trips, social activities. and A list of suggestions were made by Anna Monardo mailing cost. The members' dues as to what should be included in the of 50 cents is not enough to cover definition. The Assembly proposed 
Staff Reporter 

these expenses," she contined. that a dub must be t•stablished for 
Saint Mary's Student Assembly In the proposal, $300.00was one semester, must have a faculty last night discussed a proposal requested for this year and a sponsor, a stable memi.Jership, made at its last meeting tohave a provision for future support of at offices and regulat meetings. junior representative on the Board least the same amount. Discussion When petitioning for financial 
of Regents. If the proposal is was raised concerningthe amount :>upport a dubmust state intended successful. she will join the current and the frequency of support, purpose for the money. This was senior representative. which the Assembly would give. made into a proposal which was Joanne Garrett, legislation Garrett commented, "We are accepted unanimously. eommissioner. explained the talking about two things. Should Following a discussion as to the proposal which was originally we give them money for this year, convenience of the time for the proposed by Mary Lu Bilek. and should we install in the budget meetins the assembly noted that 
"The additional representative for the future?" the present time was convenient would serve a two year term and Garrett also presented a related for the majority. Garrett stated would be evalutated at the end of issue. "We now have a need to that as dected representatives, her first year by the Board." define. 'club.' It should be known the Assembly members have a After the last meeting, the that there is money available when duty which must be fulfilled by proposal was sent to the Student needed, but that also must be attending the meetings or else they 
Affairs Committee who, after regula ted.'' should resign. 
reviewing it. asked for a darification of the proposal . It was not clear as to the how a junior representative would be replaced if she had to leave or resign for some reason. 
Garrett stated that a new student regent would be elected in the same way her predessor had been l'lected. With this clarification the assembly passed the proposal. 
The Assembly members have doubts concerning the proposal's acceptance by the Board. Presently there is only one faculty representative. On these grounds they felt it would be difficult for the Board to accept it. 
Garrett commented, "At least the proposal will make the Board aware that we do · want a second representative." 
In other action, the Assembly agreed to provide financial support to the Law Society. They will donate $150.00 every semester, effective immediately. 
The Assembly also agreed to 
provide financial support to the 
Law Society. 
The proposal was presented by 
Law Society president, Mozelle De 
Long and treasurer-secretary, 
Terry Karley. De Long explained 
that the function of the club is to 
provide a means of information 
and ·experienceor those interested 
in law. 
"Unfortunately the financial 
resources of the club are small. 
This is mainly due to the fact that it 
is not allied with any specific 
department of the college, It is the 
only independent club on campus, 
De Long said. 
"The Law Society began only 
two years ago, however, as our 
services have expanded, our needs 
have become larger as well. We 
need an extended budget to get the 
quality speakers that we wish to 
present, and to finance events, 
MONDAY & TUESDAY ARE NOTRE DAME NIGHTS ITALlAN FOODS 
LIKE YOU USED TO GET AT FRANKIE'S SERVED BY LENNY & EDNA 

C'OMPLETE DINNERS 
llavioli $2.50 Spaghetti $2.75 l.asagna $2.75 \'t•al Parmigana $2.75 
l'itehers of Beer $1.50 while viewing 
Follow Eddy to Mishawaka Ave. 
our giant ;, x 7 T.V.
'., Block Past River Park Theatre 
SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION 

SEND A 
FlOWER 
Pink, White and striped carnations 7 5¢ Order Mon. & Tues. nights at SMC dining hall 5:00 -6:30 
Only 300 flowers available. Will be delivered Thurs. and Fri. 

You can study the American Arts in England this summer! 
Your Bicentennial summer at the L'niversity of Evansville Harlax­ton Study Centre in England will be the learning adventure of your life. Study the Arts in America 200 years later . . . . art, creative writing, dance, drama and music. Earn 9 coUege credits from June 15toJuly 15. Completecostforroom, board and tuition is $1,000, plus air fare, including a $100 deposit. Your application deadline is April 1. EnroUment is limited, so return the coupon today for complete details. No obligation. 
-------------------------------------------------------~ 
1 Yes~ l want to know more about my Bicentennial SUmmer at the ( Harlaxton Study Centre in England. Please send complete details. 
II NAME ____ ~ -~-~· I 
I ADDRESS ___ --·-· ~----------­
1 

: CITY ________.STATE_ 21P 
II PHONEIAC) _________ , ___ ­
I I will be a college FR SOPH JR SR ! (pleas12 c:rcle one) 
~------------------------­
TO: Director of Admissions Dept: 43 University of Evansville 
P.O. Box 32.9 
f•;ansville, Ind. 41702 
fl:lll"''IH t= of University Evansville 
An rndependent. church-related. 
coeducatronal f)niue~ity 
ONE PERFORMANCE ONLY! 

RTHE ......IVEB NIGER Joseph A.Walker 
"H's blackness is beautifuL" 
.......Clive Barnes, N.Y. TillES 

TICKETS  AVAILABLE  AT  STUDENT  UNION  
TICKET  OFFICE  AND  MORRIS  CIVIC  
AUDITORIUM  
Main Floor and Balcony Seats  $5  _ $4 _ $250  

10 percent discount on groups of 20 or more. Phone 232-6954 




To Speak 

P.O. Or 

Not To Speak 

Grads: Says Dr. Gordon, there is a So Notre Dame has taken a step dave-hayes"need for a critical mass" of un­that will allow a greater per­dergraduate girls. It is the policy centage of students to remain on
Endangered 

of the administration to encourage l'ampus--a step we believe is long­Hon Ziegler has been exhumed from his San Clemente every female undergraduate to awaited. 
grave,where he had been attending to the post-mortem needs of his
Species? 

live on campus. In short, pharoah. and now he stalks the earth again, ready to fill the earsresidency for graduates is just not Doesn't Sister Garlock see that of paying audiences with tales of his previous life. Whether hisUt•ar Editor: as important as for un­this is in the best interest of the statements are as "inoperative" now as they were in White House l\1m·h has been said and much dl'rgraduates. university and more people will days of a time past. no one knows. Boston University was willing to more nPt>ds to be said about the In summary, graduate students ht>nl'fit? What's her gripe, pay a $3,000 lecture fee to give its students a chance to find out. 
status of the graduate student at don't rate' They have no social anyway? The grad students will !'\otrl' DamP. This is a university, rights. no academic rights, no rPmain on campus--perhaps for­i~ut faculty and student pressure at Boston U. has since ca.ncelled
a title which carriE's with it a n•sidt>ncy rights. WHY NOT? cing under-grads to move off. 
Zil'glpr's scheduled performance. Yielding to indignant cn_es thatcommitmPnl to advanced study. WilY AIU<: THEY OSTRACIZED? They'rl' simply moving to smaller immediately arose when the invitation was made public, theYt•t it is obvious to any graduate It is the graduates who teach the singll's. Badin Hall. like Lewis, school's administration refused to give the podium to Ziegler; hestudent or observl'r of graduate grt>ater majority of freshman has a kitchl'n and a rec room. It's was not worthy to tell his story-at least not for $3,000.

lift>. that the grad students are l'OUrses. They play a large role in also Wl'll-situated; the bookstore, spcond class mt>mbers of this giving the frPshmen their in­south cafeteria, and the Rock Boston llniversity ought to have let Ziegler speak. If he wasl'ampus. troduction to the academic life of Iwing a short walk away. 
dl'nied the right to speak because of his questionable candidness,Th<• l.<•wis Hall Decision or the :-.iotre DamP. It is the graduates then hE' should undoubtedly be allowed to lecture for, as Art Buch­
"Badin Hall Compromise," as it who attract outstanding professors WI' believe grad students should wald dryly commented, "if credibility was the criterion for

has lwen labeled by Dr. Gordon is and in research ac­have to make a few accommodations
aid the college speakers. no one in Washington would get a ?ooking."
hut the most recent example. The complished by these scholars. It is too. Wt• are ALL members of the Bt>sides, if you or I -were in the audience, we would certamly hear a

dP<'ision to take Lewis Hall away the graduate students who through Notre Damt' student body and the 
talE' worth listening to. if only through the lenses that ourfrom the graduate women was their publications, doctoral under-grads' tuitions and fees are Watergate knowledge has given us. And in the promis~dquest!on­prefaced by similar invasions of research and professional success, worth just as much as those of our answt>r period after the talk, we might ask pomted questions which, 
graduatE' facilities. and the saddest maintain the academic reputation counterparts. Graduate students if answPred with candor, would be enlightening and, if dcdged,

part of all is that it will in all of the llniversity. And it is the an· no better than anyone else. 
similarly enlightPning.

likelihood be followPd by other graduate students who establish Thf'y should not be entitled to such confiscations. the distinction between a t•xtraordinary privileges and they If Angela Davis. holder of views that clash with the beliefs ofBy 1971. the graduate facilities of university and a college. should not be exempted from many students, can speak to a college audience, and charge anthe Mt•morial Library, that is, the Don't they deserve somE' university mandates.
con­outrageous fee <at Notre Dame, no less!), why can't Ron Ziegler"Graduate Tower" wE're no longer sideration? 
qualify in like manner? Perhaps $3,000 is too large a fee, but thatrestricted to graduate students. Sinct>rt>ly, 

I'm sure the rest of the eight­
seems the pt•riphf'ral issue of the Boston U. controversy <at leastlit-nee. their nePd for a quiet Linda Fallon thousand here

students sym­
there has been no mention of any counter offers). If the doors arelocation for serious research and 

pathize with Sister Garlock.'s 
open to speaking. then price is a concern that appropriate agentsstudy became secondary to the 

"intolerable" conditions in Badm 
can haggle over-but first the doors must be opened. 
m·eds of undergraduates. 

llall--t•specially those girls who've
The Dump
Excluding the Law School, there 

made many strong friendships in 
t•xists only building this Simiiar reaseni:lg appli~d to the question of whether Watergate
one on 

"the dump" over the past few 
campus where grad students may criminals ought to be allowed to b~>cume millionaires via the 
~·pars.
gather and whl're liquor may be Uf':u· Ed itm·: publication of their books. Certainly this i.s a distast_eful i~sue to served That location is the In regards to Sr. Maria Wt• believe the rectress of a hall confront. Few things could be Jess appealing than witnessmg the n•creation room of Lewis Hall. In (;arlock's commPnts concerning in this situation should be amassing of wealth by Richard Nixon, or the ascent to affluence of St>ptf'm her there will be no the LPwis-Badin transition: the somPwhat of a leader and en­a Charles Colson. But it is r.ot for us to question the right of these recreational facilities for graduate switch to co-t>ducation at Notre eouragt' cooperation with mm to publish their stories-to intervene would be to biatantly 
stud<•nts. I>amt• has caused many housing university rulings. It may make l'ondone censorship. 
As Dr. Gordon stated at his problems and hard feelings. things a little easier for a~l i~­meeting with the residents of Originally many students had to \'OlvPd. WP hope you can stick It C!Parly it requires no moral fortitude on our part to allow these L<•wis llall on Wednesday night, all move off-campus to accommodatP out onf' year. nwn to publish their books. It is only when the fruits of the act ~raduat<• dorms are "Hand-Me­incoming women. Now it seems lwcome apparent that the public becomes uneasy at the apparent Downs." There has never been a that th<• university is in need of injustice of someone reaping dollars from their own wrongdoing. graduate hall or complex con­more housing shuffles, as it has llt>an .JankE', 'ii But isn't thP question moot at this point? If publish they must, and struct<'d on this campus. h£'E.'n since women WPre admitted. if money is an effect of exercising this unquestionable right, then, 
money earned is theirs rightfully. The only intermediary which ean a~rest this cause-effect relation is if no one buys the books. Inten•stingly enough. when President Ford was aked about the had pxamplP that such lucrative publishing gives our youth, he l'ommPnted, "I really haven't thought about that. I wouldn't huy om• of those books." 
So if vou are outraged' at the price Ziegler gets for a lecture­don't go. If there is no audience, assuredly he will not command any fee, and if audiences arc thin, then he will have to settle for much less than $3,000. Likewise if you don't like to see Dean or Colson getting rich because of thesal<•of their upcoming books­don't buy them. If enough pt•opl<• carry similar eonvictions they won't get rich after all. 
For my part. I want to sit in an auditorium (preferably at Notre . Dame l and hear Hon Ziegler. I also will eagerly snatch up a copy of .John DPan's new bookwhen it's available. This right is mine. I'm Pxercising it knowing full well that a man of dubious int~grity is profiting by my action. But while that awareness rna~ give me a queasy feeling, it doesn't stop me. The~e can ben? Jealousy for Ziegler's or Dean's pocketed dollars. Their route to nches followed a path we will never try to duplicate. 
the observer,


by Garry Trudeau
DOONESBURY 

Night Editor -· Andy Praschak Ass't. Night Editor--Marti Hogan Layout .. Kathy Skiba, Martha Fanning, Marlene Zloza, Kevin Uniacke Copy Reader --Pat Hanifin Day Editor --Bill Sohn Editorials --John Amantea, Fred Graver Features .. Ginny Faust, Robert Baker Sports .. Greg Corgan Picture Screener ·-Albert D'An· tonio Ad Layout -· Bob Tracey Typists --Don Roos, Rick Huber, Howard Halle, Kathy Grace, Martha Fanning Compugraph ·· C. Spina Night Controllers --M.J. Foley, Dave Rust 


First of all. I want to say that I really intended to write a straight "Helen Reddy <'oncert" review. You just have to trust me about that. I was perfectly aware of what I was expected to crank out: I set out with notebook and binoculars in hand, and I had t-ven roughed out some ideas for standard ·good show' and 'bad show' leads. 
But suddenly. somewhere between "The Last Blues Song" and "Angie Baby," I realized that I wasn't watching a concert­meant-to-be-reviewed. In fact. I wasn't ·watching' at all. I was understanding; I was sharing: I was part of a two-way communication. And so that leaves me without a concert review story to write, but instt•ad with something much more im­portant and memorable. even though I must convey it awkwardly second-hand. 
Now. whether you keep on reading this story and-or find anything worthwhile in it may depend on what side of the fence you're on. This is the moment of truth. 
If ~·ou are one of the people who automatically makes an ugly face and scornfully blurts out "Ugh!" whenever the name Helen Reddy is mentioned, you will probably not be interested in hearing from someone who respects and admires her talent and success. Maybe you resent her honesty and her fame: maybe you are afraid of what you think she represents. That's your problem and reading this story won't solve it. To some people on this side of the fence. Helen Reddy is only the per­sonification of "I Am Woman," and a symbol of a frightening feminist movement. 

But to those on the other side of the fence, HPddy is an entertainer, a singer with en­thusiasm. honesty and a strong, clear voice. She is a person who has paid her dues and is proud and happy with her career. She is a person who enjoys her work and her family and is t•xcellent at conveying this satisfaction to other people, and this is a rarity for any woman or man these days. To those who recognize it, this is also beautiful. 
I heard some remarks after the show 
about Heddy's casual outfit and manner. 
if one man 
brrgs a little 
rrore love .... 
THEN THAT MANS LIFE HAS MEANING The Crosiers are an Order of Brothers and Priests who see their ministry in light of today's world. If you are interested, call Ed Sellner, O.S.C. at 283-3189. Room 327, Holy Cross Hall 
Monday, February 10, 1975 
the observer 
5 

don't fence me in 
Some 'watchers' who came in long skirts and satin blouses or suit and tie felt un­comfortable staring at an entertainer wearing wool slacks and a sweter. But these people must have misread their tickets. They came to a Helen Reddy concert, not an Ann-Margaret extravaganza. And so Helen Reddy came as herself; low-key, casual. and unpretentious. Her in­dividualism is as natural as her singing voice. And her repertoire is just as unique as her style. 
Heddy easily mixes a country and western rendition of "Best Friend" with a musical­comedy dance song called "Show Biz." She paints a ppicture with a story ballad like "Long Hard Cl i.mb" and then stomps .and shouts through a 'rock and roll' number about her "Travelling Band." 
But no matter what the selection, the pitch 
is a personal one. Reddy doesn't sing to a 
crowd. to a microphone, or to a fantasy 
world created by drugs and exhuastion. She 
sings to people, to other individuals that 
share her love for life. There is "Love Song 
for Jeffrey." dedicated to her husband (who 
is home babysitting\; there is "My Sister," 
the remembrance of a family back in 
Australia: and there is "You and Me 
Against the World," expressing the love 
between a parent and a child. And as a 
finale there is "I'll Be Your Audience," 
dedicated to the people who appreciated the 
mtertainer with a standing ovation. 
These are the reasons that the technics of 
the concert don't matter. Reddy used her 
t>xperience as a television performer to 
great advantage, but that is only an added 
attraction. Mike Warren is an excellent 
lead guitarist. but that was not the story of 
the evening. Yesterday was the birthday of 
Peter Allen. the warm-up singer and ac­
complished songwriter, but the birthday 
cake didn't excite the crowd. As a matter of 
fact. nothing really excited the crowd. 
Ht>ddy commented on their quietness, but in 
the same breath she praised their ap­
preciation and attentiveness. It was a group 
of people who came to listen, not to shriek. 
by marlene zloza 
As for the writer of this saga, the evening was very special as a growing experience. It's not often a woman can enjoy and share in the great success of another woman, especially around Notre Dame. It's not often you get a chance to identify with the words and emotions expressed by a female t•ntertainer. When you finally do find some camaraderie and sisterhood around this place. your first instinct is to hoard it and surround youself with the good memories. But last night it was open and wide and deep. 
Helen Reddy is not my favorite singer, she is not my 'idol,' and she is not 'the woman I admire most.' But she is a comfortable, personable human being with which to spend an evening. Not many in the audinence were college students; not many Wl're my friends. And that is something I really regret. because Helen Reddy is a good person with a good time to share with others. She's the kind of person that can lower the fence a bit, if you are only willing 
to look over to the other side. 


OBSERVER 
FEATURES 
International Harvester 
has unmatched opportunitiesfor people majoring in: 
Accounting Agricultural Engineering Business Administration Business Management Civil Engineering Computer Science Economics Electrical Engineering Engineering Technology Finance Industrial Engineering Marketing Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Metallurgy Metallurgical Engineering 
March 5 is your chance to take a look at them. 
Make an appointment at the Placement Office to see the International Harvester College Relations Representative. He'll be here to tell you what kind of people we're looking for, how we work and more about the opportunities we have to offer. In the meantime, stop by • the Placement Office and 
Ill 

pick up a copy of our new recruitment brochure. INTERNATIONALHARVESTER 
l ~ 
. 
6  the observer  Monday, February 10, 1975  
Third time in two years  !'\OTHE ll:\l\IE SAILING CLl1H PHESENTS  
SMC goverrunent :may change  2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY  

by Pl"ter C. Johnson Staff Rl"porter 
For the third time in two years, the hierarchy of the St. Mary's Student Government may undergo a radical change. The most recently proposed change, ac­cording to Legislative Com­missioner Joanne Garrett, in­volves a restructuring of offices in which the present four com­missioner system would be replaced by the more traditional offices of president, two vice­presidents, and one appointed commissioner. 
The plan approved by the Student Assembly on January 31 now goes to the College's Student Affairs Council. 

Originally created to ease the workload placed on the previous offices of pr-.!sident and vice­president. this system went to the opposite extreme Garrett ex­plained. She added that the workload was spread out but to such an extent that some members of Student Government never came to understand their areas of responsibility. 
"There were too many Indians and not enough chiefs," Garrett commented. "Power tended to be distributed in such small parcels that no individual had enough to fulfill any substantial objective." 
The series of changes in Student <;overnment found their first 
Williams sees 
violent society 
(continued from page 3) 
"classics" which are, Williams stated "a conquest of the diverse nature of mankind and the world about himself. They required a deep effort from the author and require an intellectual response from the readers." 
Williams explained that it is these works which delve into the nature of man which must challenge modern literature which is "Full of despair and emptiness and spiritual sterility." 
According to Williams the world is divinely created but granted total freedom by the creator. 
Man alone has sympathy and empathy, theories and ideas. He

-
alone delights in the arts. Man is unique being and because of it, he must have dignity." lie felt this dignity can be at­tained by all men by gaining as much knowledge as possible while avoiding obsession with any one idea. Citing Tennyson's words, "Be not virtuous overmuch," he concluded that "even the good can he hackneyed." 
Along with the knowledge, man also needs belief. Without it, Williams fPels that survival is not possible. He stated, "Man must oractice self-transcendence." 

Column arouses /controversy 
A controversy over the tenure of the graduate student union presidrnt has arisen as a result of a f<'ebruary 4 Ohsl'rvi>r column by Hugh Harman. 
The column charged that Anne­Therese Darin Palmer, GSU president. had been negligent in her duties since moving to Chicago last sPmester after a November marriage. 
PalmPr. a second semester MBA studsnt. daiml'd she resigned in a December 26 letter to GSU vice­presidPnt William Smith-Hinds. Smith-Hinds stated yesterday that hP never rf'ceived a resignation letter from Palmer. 
In a statement last week. Palmer stated. "Mr. 1-1 1rman's criticism was justified ir. that it would lJP ludicrous to represent the GSU in transit from Chicago. However. in the future, it would be advantageous for Mr. Harman to obtain accurate information prior to commencing misdirected outbursts." 

Harman said his information was verified by three different . sources. 
proponents in two Saint Mary's students: Barb McKeirnan and Debby Carvatta, in February 1973. 
Due to their efforts, the offices of President and Vice-President were aboJ.ished, with the subsequent creation of the commission system with a chairman of the student board of governance, hall life commissioner and student affairs commissioner. 
Barb McKiernan then became the first chairman ' while Debby Carvatta went on to assume the role of senior class president. 
While this system allowed for a more satisfactory degree of responsibility per individual," Garrett said, "problems became immediately apparent which were much like those causing the present change. That is, dilution of individual policy making abilities occurred." 

A second shake-up took place, in February 1974, in which the chairman of the board of gover­nance position was replaced by that of legislative commissioner. "This was done so she could take more responsibilities," Garrett explained. Further, the office of academic affairs commissioner, a post which remained in the back­
ground until this time, was given the same status as that of the other three commissioners. This com­pleted the formation of the present four commissioner system. 
The president and vice presidents under the new plan would be elected and the vice­president for student affairs would appoint the hall life commissioner, a position previously filled by election. 

TUES., FEB. 11 &WED., FEB. 12 ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM $1.00 
MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES * 2 FILMS 
* 
BOOKSTORE 

* 
LIVE FLOOR SHOW 




IT SOUNDS INCREDIBLE 
BUT EVELYN WOOD GRADUATES CAN READ THE GODFATHER IN 64 MINUTES 
AT THAT SPEED, THE 477 PAGES COME ACROSS WITH MORE IMPACT THAN THE MOVIE. IN LIVING BLOOD, YOU MIGHT SAY. 
lmagme what th1s ab1hty can do lor students. At 1000 words per mmute (that's three times faster than you read) Evelyn Wood graduates can devour a text book i•~e Hofstadtler s ·Amencan Polit1cal Trad1t1on and wrap up each chapter m 11 mmutes 
ThiS means mstead of spend1ng 800 hours a year readmg -that's what a college freshman does -an Evelyn Wood graduate spends 170 hours W1thout any drop m comprehenSion' W1thout any drop 1n retention' 
If there ever was a t1me to do something about this. 1fs now. 
Don·t goof away another day' 
P S If you th1nk th1s IS another advertising con-job. take a free mtroductory lesson and settle it once and for all F1nd out 11 we ve pulled the wool over 500.000 graduates eyes or we really do have somethmg. 

Come to your free introductory lesson! You'll inerease your reading speed 50 to 100% on the spot! 
4 pm or 8 pm This Week Only Center for Continuing Education 
~ Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Institute 
As disciplinary measure 
<I
Parietals suspended at SMC 
j 
j
schedules are concerned," but that don't show a little more interest."
by Maureen Flynn efforts are being made "to clear She added that the idea of a IStaff Reporter that up." Detex system similar to the one at 1 
Parietal hours were suspended Lardy is concerned, though, Notre Dame had been considered 1 in two St. Mary's residence halls about times when "the girls are but there are problems with the I Sunday as a disciplinary measure. just too busy. I don't appreciate budget and installation." I Because of continued failure on the people not telling me and not 
LeMans Resident Advisor Nellie
part of some students to report for showing up." 
Lawlor doesn't think the Hall isdesk duty, residents of Lemans Previously, she explained, the ready for the Detex system. "Mostand Holy Cross were not allowed to hall staff tried to fill in at the desk of the girls would just like to seehave visitors yesterday. whenever a resident failed to 
parietals extended," explained
Brenda Lardy, director of report for duty. Such efforts were Lawlor.
LeMans Hall, explained that hall made this past weekend on Friday residents are assigned to one hour and Saturday nights, but, Lardy Asked if she thought the shifts on Fridays from 6-10 p.m., stated, "This hall is just too big to suspension of Sunday parietals Saturdays from 1-10 p.m., and run like that." would be effective, Lawlor said, "I Sundays from 1-5 p.m. "Parietals are great, but if the think it will have to be a Friday or 
''Each day there's usually one or girls want visitors they must take Saturday night before it will really two girls who don't show," said the responsibility," she continued. affect them." Lardy, "and on Saturdays "Each girl only has to work one sometimes three or four." She hour per semester or per year," Lawlor has heard LeMans acknowledged that some of the Lardy observed. "I hope this residents discussing the suspen­
problems were due to "a break­doesn't continue, but we may have sion, "but nobody is really upset, down in communications as far as to c~mcel parietals again if people because it is the students' fault." 
First concert in •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ... 
memory of Jim : ACADEMIC COMMISSION i 
Ward to be held •• ••• 
by Ma1·tha Fanning : SPRING SEMESTER OF EVENTS : 
Starr Rt>porter 

The first of three concerts in memory of Jim Ward. a senior who 
: FEBRUARY MARCH :
died of heart failure while on 
• 

tour with the SMC choir , will be • • held this Wednesday, Feb. 12, at : r : 
10:00 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
! 9 Duncan Williams j (i.,f 12 Nicholas Von Hoffman i 
Proceeds from the concert will be donated to charity in Ward' s • 8:00 pm Lib. Aud. .._. 8:00 pm Wash. Hall • 
name. • • Wednesday night the Notre : 11 Hans Morganthau 13 Seymour Hersh : 
Dame jazz band, Erg's Finger • • 
Circus. will be the featured : 8:00 pm Wash. Hall : group. A special benefit per­
: Government Festival :
formance will be made by Curtis .Johnson, a professional saxophone : "Separation of Powers APRIL :player, at this concert. 
Notre Dame campus talent will i in the Wake of Watergate" i perform at Saturday night's 
concert. Several groups and . * .
: 17 General Session: 8 Charles Bertlitz :
soloists will be appearing in­cluding; Slow (John Begret, Bill 
i• Martin Diamond 30 Dr. Fayez A. Sayegh i•· 
Blanford, Mike Blandford and John Steinmen); Triad <Dave 
i 8:00 pm Lib. Aud. 8:00 pm Wash. Hall :
Shaheen, Jake Schneider and Greg Mandolin); Pete Snake (George : 18 Congress: Samuel Patterson : 
Adello, Tony Herenda, and Robin Salem l along with soloists Jim : 8:00 pm lib. Aud. Other Possibilities : 
Gresser and Jack Kelleher. This 
• b • 
concert will also be held in : 19 Presidency: Herbert Storing De ate between the : 
Washington Hall and is set to start • • at 9:00 p.m. : 8:00pm Arch. Aud. Teamsters & : 
The St. Mary's Collegiate 
Choir, of which Ward was a i 20 Courts: David Fellman Farmworkers i member for two years, will be 
singing Hyden Missa Brevis at a i * 8:00 lib. Aud. Series of lectures i memorial mass being held Sunday 
morning at 11 a.m. Fr. Tom : 23, -24, or 25 on Alcoholic :· Tallarida C.S.C., who served as the 
i• Sen. James Buckley 8:00 prP Abuse by NIAA i• 
University's representative to Ward's funeral,. will celebrate the mass to be held at LeMans :• Wash. Hall * :•Chapel . 
At 8 p.m. Sunday evening the : Tentative : 
choir will give a concert in the . : 
Little Theatre of Moreau Hall •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 

at St. Mary's. The program for the 
concert has not yet been decided but will include some of the popular songs from the Florida tour. 
Ralph Pennino and Brother Larry Stewart are the organizers of the memorial concerts. "We hope to get a lot of people to come so that we can raise a substantial sum to donate in Jim's name," commented Pennino. 
Pe)lnino, who is also the director of Nazz, stated that he drew on many of the resources of the coffeehouse for the two concerts being held in Washington Hall. 
THE 


Bead Craft 

Macrame Supplies Artist Quality Points Point-By-Number Kits 
Train accessories Hrs. 10 a.m.-9 p.m. Noon~ p.m. Monday-Saturday Sundays 
255-5140 100 Co!nter Com lex 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED MEN WOMEN! Jobs on Ships! No 
Responsible students desire to rent LOST AND FOUNDexperience required. Excellent 
tnotorhome for 10 days (March 21­Need ride to St. Louis, weekend of 
pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect 
30) for trip to Florida. Will payFeb. 21. Call Joanne at 6997. summer job or career. Send $3.00 Lost. blue and white long knitted
well. Call Trace, 234-1889. for information. SEAFAX, Dept. scarf. Call 3694. Reward. 
Singer for rock band. Experience G 13, P.O. Box 2049, Port Angeles, 
Accurate, fast typing Northeast
preferred. but not necessary. Call Wash. 98362. Lost: pair of silver wire-rim
section of South Bend. Reasonable.
Mike. 8624. 
<~lasses at MSU game or between Money? Morrissey Loan will lend ACC and Sorin. Please contact at up to $150 for 30 days. 1 day waiting 6555. 
232-0746. 
NOTICES Renters: for renter's insurance,
period. Basement of LaFortune, . -·---------­
call Glen or Jess Neely, 272-6565. 
daily, 11:15 to 12:15. Found: 1 pr. qlasses, copper
'Remember: "every major Slate Farm Insurance. 
frames, in D 1. Call Magqie, 6814.

university in our nation offers a Disciplinary action hanging overcourse in social ballroom dan. 
your head? Call Student Govt. FOR RENT
cinq." Dances taught are: 'r:>x trot, PERSONALS 
7668. We may be able to help.
waltz, rock 'n' roll, rhumba, cha­P.A. system for rent. Call Archie, Thanks for making my bed,cha. It's the fashionable way to go. 
THIS SPRING BREAK (MARCH 232-4967. Blirnpo.
So join our student qroup classes 
22-29) REGGAE DOWN TO 
every Monday evening, 7-9, MONTEGO BAY, JAMAICA! Houses ranging from two to seven Buzzski Happy Honeymoon,LaFortune Ballroom. $2 each 
ROUND TRIP BY AIR JAMAICA bedrooms. Completely furnished. Niqger!
class. Walk in alone. group. date. 
JET & DELUXE AC­Available for May or Sept. 234­
Always a beginners lesson 7-8. 
9364.

COMODATIONS AT THE PLUSH Gay Students of Notre Dame: anChanqe partners all evening. Be MONTEGO HOLIDAY INN. organization of persons interestedwith-us Mon. You are always 
TENNIS, GOLD, SWIMMING, in sharing with others an im.
welcome. Great way to meet FOR SALE
AND GREAT RAYS IN THE portant aspect of their lives.
friends and learn to dance as well. Fran DeMarco . Dance In­Garrard turntable, Electrophonic
CARIBBEAN SUN. $50 DEPOSITS P.O. Box 1702 
MUST BE IN BY FRIDAY, South Bend, Ind. 46601 FEBRUARY 14. FOR MORE 
structress Receiver, Realistic 1000 speakers. 
$250.00. Phone 8709. INFORMATION AND SIGN-UPS, Vote for Sheila & John for BPHASH BROWN BLUES BAND 
STOP BY THE STUDENT UNION formal King and Queen.
Beginner's Camera Outfit:NOW AVAILABLE FOR YOUR TICKET OFFICE, OR CALL 272­Mamiya Sekor 500 TL, 50mm 12,PARTY, DANCE, OR FORMAL. 
9895 AFTER 7:00 PM. 
500mm 18 telephoto and 2x, Soligor Vote for Phil and Karen as King
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CALL 272-9895. 
ARRANGEMENTS BY THE ST. Teleconverter. All cases included. and Queen of the Walkiny JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY. $320.00. Phone 8709. Wounded at the BP Formal. 
the observer Monday, February 10, 1975 
Irish nip SC 66-65: Falcons tonight 
by Pt>h' McHugh 

After all the pre-game hoopla had been hooplaed, after all the "classic confrontations" had been confronted. and even after all the time had run out. it was a couple of freshmen who were the real story Saturday afternoon in the ACC. 
Sure there were other things. 

Adrian Dantley took only six shots. Alex English missed only five shots. Digger had no tie. The referees were named Carel Cosby and Curtiss Prinz. But aside from the particulars. "Duck" Williams and Jpff Carpenter were generally the difference as Notre Dame owrtiml'd by South Carolina 66­
(i~. 
In thPir longest playing stint this sPason. the pair of freshman guards ht'ld the South Carolina back court to nine second half points and com1Jined for four steals and six points in the overtime. Williams. who broke Austin Carr's scoring record at Mackin · in Washington D.C., topped Notre DamP in scoring with 16 points, hitting two key baskets for a 62-59 overtiml' advantage. Carpenter picked up six points, three steals in tht' session. and iced the victory with a pair of free throws with only 31 seconds to play. 
Before a near-capacity crowd in the Convocation Center and a national television audience, the usually high-scoring teams were unusually on the defensive. Frank McGuire's Gamecocks used a tenacious :>.one to keep Dantley and most of histeammates away from the basket. The collapsing zone limited the bemasked Dantley to only three shots each half and only ten point:, for the game. 
Notre Dame relied on its usually exhausting full court man-to-man forcing South Carolina into 21 turnovers. Altogether the game was tied 13 times, with an early six point Irish lead the biggest margin of the afternoon. 
Sophomore forward Bill Paterno IPd that first half surge by hitting his first three shots of the game for a 12-6 Notre Dame advantage. The Irish couldn't lose the hot shooting Gamecocks, however, as the slippery English and freshman phenom Jack Gilloon combined for 20 points (9-12 from the field) before the intermission. 
With Dantley often double teamed in the 2-1-2 zone Williams and Paterno supplied most of the Irish scoring punch with eight points t>ach. Freshmen Carpenter and Dave Batton hit Notre Dame's last eight points to give the Irish a :lB-35 halftime edge. 
In the second half. both teams continued the deliberate style of play. With 10:52 remaining, South Carolina reclaimed the lead on a 15 ft. jumper by forward Nate Davis. Gilloon added a foul shot for a 51-48 Gamecock edge, their biggest of the game. 
Baskets by Paterno and Toby Knight put the Irish back on top with eight minutes to play and gave Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps sufficient cause to bring the visitors out of their tight zone defense. South Carolina switched to a man-to-man defense on the stalling Insh, fouling Dantley with 
6:48 left. 
Dantley-'s conversions upped his team's lead to 54-51 but the Gamecocks wouldn't fade. A score by English, Pa_terno's turnover, and a pair of free throws by Tommy Boswell gave South Carolina a 55-54 lead. Knight missed a baseline shot against the reinstated Gamecock zone as the Irish hopes dimmed. 
A steal by Williams and his assist to Knight brightened up the situation for a 56-55 edge with but 

Greg Corgan:::::::::::===========:=:::::===============:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::=:::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::= 
The Irish Eye 
:~:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-=·:·:·:·:·:~:·:-=·:-=·:·:·:·:-=·:-=-=-=·:·:-=·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:~=·:-=-=·=·=·.Youth movement 
At one point in the second half of Notre Dame's 66-65 overtime win over South Carolina on Saturday there were three freshmen and two sophomores on the floor for the Irish. Dave Batton was at center, "Duck" Williams and ,Jpff Carpenter were at guards 'lnd "veterans" Adrian Dantley and Billy Paterno were at the wings. 
"Against UCLA we had some upperclassmen who really did a ~ob .• " said Digger Phelps after the game. "Today our underclassmen dtd tt, (•specially our freshmen." . . 
(If the 200 minutes played, 71 were accounted for by Batton, Wtlhams and Carpenter. Only 20 minutes were played by seni?rs. The re~t of the timP wPnt to sophomores Dantley. Paterno. Ray Martm, Toby Kmght and 
Dave Kuzmicz. Of the ()6 points scored, the freshman trio had 28 including six of the Pight points scored in the overtime period. Williams was Notre Dame's lPading scon•r with 16 while Batton and Carpenter both had six. Mean­while the thrt>e rookies had only six of the Irish 20 turnovers and were rt>sponsible for five of ND's eight steals. Not bad for mere siblings. "Out freshmen guards, Jeff Carpenter and Duck Williams did a super job today." said Phelps, "especially defensively." But it may have been Williams' offensive performance that's kept :\otn• Dame.'s NCAA hopes alive. South Carolina's tenacious zone held I >antley to only ten points, 21 below his season's average. It was Duck who picked up the slack hitting corner jumpers from outside the USC 1.one. "Wt• \\WP looking for that shot." said Duck. "We'd been working on it all W('Pk in practice. But anybody who was open was supposed to take th(• .,;hot and I happened to get open." < lbviously the pressure on Dantley had something to do with the fact that \\'dliams did get open. and as a result, Gamecock coach Frank 1\Ic(;uin• 's defensive strategy ultimately backfired. "You have to key on a guy like Dantley, but then someone else is going to hurt you." he said. McGuire then asked how many points Dantley had and somt'one told him ten. "God almighty!" he semi-exclaimed, "You hold Dantley to only ten points and lose the ball game. It seems like an a" ful waste of t>ffort." llpspite the fact that he is only a freshman, Williams wasn't surprised at all that he played a full 28 minutes. "I knew that I'd probably see a lot or action because I'd been playing a lot in practice. I knew that it was a big game and I had to be ready for it and everything worked out OK." Williams is only averaging 5.1 points per game, but his 16 points against lht> Gamt>cocks was not his most productive performance. Over the Christmas break Duck hit for 20 against Villanova. Since that time Williams has seen more and more playing time. ''Our offense is complicated and it takes time to learn, so I didn't expect to be playing all the time right away," relates Duck. "Right now, Pverything seems to be falling into place. ·•A lot of schools like to rush the freshmen into the program, but coach PhPips likes to bring us along slowly so that we don't have so much trouble adjusting to it. He spends a lot of time helping us." It may pay off. for if the Irish are to make the NCAA tournament, and a strong possibility still exists, especially with the field extended to 32 t<·ams. 71 minutes might be the least Williams, Batton and Carpenter will play. 
three minutes to play. Boswell followed by fouling out on a charging call, but another 
Paturnover gave South Carolina the ball. With 2:08 left, tempers flared during a jump ball between Dantley and Carolina's Bob Mathias with pushes exchanged before official intervention. 
Ray Martin, fresh off the bench, sunk two foul shots with 1:30 left, but once again English restored the one point margin. After Martin missed on a 1-1 foul situation, Williams was called for an in­fraction away from the ball­holding SC's Stu Klitenic. Klitenic knotted the score at 58-58 but missed the second attempt before the roaring crowd. 
Notre Dame held the ball until 
the final 12 seconds before using 
their last timeout. Dantley forced 
a corner jump shot, English lost 
the ball out of bounds. and Paterno 
tried a desperation 60ft. hook shot 
to send the game into the five 
minute overtime. 
In the overtime, each team 
missed important free throw op­
portunities in the opening minutes. 
The everpresent English made the 
first of two attempts to start the 
scoring. Then Williams suc­
cumbed to the pressure by failing 
ton two free throws. Carpenter 
passed to his freshman teammate 
for a baseline jumper, however, 
putting the Irish ahead to stay 60­
59. 
After Carpenter missed another 
1-1 situation following a steal, he 
teamed with Williams to trap 
Gilloon in the backcourt and 
"Duck" went in for the layup. A 
driving one hander by Gamecock 
l\1ikt> Dunleavy, a pair of free 
throws by Paterno, and a tur­
naround jumper by English, in­
creased the score to 64-63 at 1:07. 
A brilliant stuff by Dantley on 
English and Carpenter's two free 
throws ended the mystery as SC's 
Billy Truitt scored his team's final 
points with one second on the 
clock. 
English led all scorers with 23 
points (10-15 from the field) and 
blocked three shots to up his 
season total to 47. Juniors Boswell and Dunleavy, both foul-outs, followed with 14 and 10 points respectively for the Gamecocks. Besides Williams, Notre Dame was paced by Paterno's 14 points and Knight's falso a foul-out) game high 14 rebounds. 
The victory upped Notre Dame's record to 12-7 this season and kept NCAA playoff hopes alive. South Carolina dropped to 13-6 with the loss. 
Irish coach Digger Phelps felt the Gamecocks would likely be awarded an at-large berth and lavished praise on his coaching opponent. "That man who just left, he's a real man. I idolized him in high school. When we were growing up there was one man to play for. that was Frank McGuire. lie's a legend in college basket­ball " 

As to the fate of his own basketball players, Phelps was carefully optimistic, "We're gambling. we're playing a lot of kids. we're young --we'll keep going." 
f<'or tonight at least, they'll be ~taying. Notre Dame faces Air Foret' at 11:10 p.m. in the ACC. 

leers drop pair to Spartans 
b_y Bob Kissel 

The Irish hockey team showed 
all the signs of another big con­
frontation with Coach Amo 
Hessone's Michigan State Spartans' 
nerves, tension, and butterflies. 
Amo's Army played unexpectedly 
calm both nights, sweeping ND 7-3 
Friday and 7-0 Saturday. 
The perils of youth never showed 
more Friday night as the young 
Ll•fty Smith team came out flying 
Parly in the opening period. The 
Irish showed their youthful 
Pxuberance, forechecking and 
backchecking With persistance. 
Their efforts netted a quick 
payoff, only 2:35 after the initial 
faceoff. Pat Conroy skated the 
puck into the Spartan zone, 
wheeled behind the State net, and 
headmanned the puck out to Les 
Larson at the point. Larson took 
the low slapshot from the blueline 
which MSU goalie Ron Clark 
snubbed. Terry Fairholm was in 
perfect position in the slot to flip 
the rebound home for the 1-0 lead. 
Michigan State must have read 
their scouting reports well, because they waited for the Notre Dame defensive turnovers, mistakes which have meant the . difference between a winning record and the present losing 
season mark. 
The first mistake came at 5: 11 on 
a power play goal, witjl ND's Geoff 
Collier off for an elbowing in­
fraction. State's Pat Betterly put a 
blueline slapshot past a completely 
screened Len Moher. 
State took the lead for good at 
17:51 when Daryl Rice floated a shot past Moher right off the faceoff. Moher made the initial save. but the puck trickled in. WCHA scoring leader Tom Ross increased his point totals on a goal at 18:48. 
Lanky Kevin Nugent tightened period for the Spartans to score up the game with a tally at the their winning goal. Robbie Harris 
13: 14 mark of the middle period. put a wrist shot past John Peterson Winger AI Karsnia dug the puck scrl:'ened by his own defen­out of the corner and passed to seman out front. Collier in the slot. Collier put up a The Spartans added three more quick backhander which Clark had scores in the period, Tom Ross abeaton.butNugentwastherefor <4:53), Pat Ht>tterly <12:09), and the rebound goal. .Jack Johnson (19:07). 

State increased their edge to 5-2 Michigan State continues their on tally by Robbie Harris midway lay and wait plan of attack, coming through the final period. Geoff up with three more scores in the Collier tried to spark the Irish with dosing pt>riod. Tom Ross. ex-a tipin goal (assists to Karsnia, tended his hot scoring pace, tur-Hrownschidlel at 11:41. ning on the red light twice to 
State took away any ND hopes rompletethP hat trick. Ross scored with two late-game markers by at ~:27 and 13:12 along with Jim Jack .Johnson (17:16) and John .Johnson at 3:20 for the final 7-o Sturges (18: 12) for the final 7-3 scorl:'. score. I•'or Hon Clark, his first career 
The Irish tried valinatly shutout was a well-earned present Saturday to continue their string of on his 25th birthday, but for the three straight Saturday wins after Irish it ended a string of 208 games Friday Iossl:'s. In the opening without being shutout. That last period the Irish icers again came blank came on January 31, 1969, a out skating aggressively, putting 12-0 loss to Wisconsin. the pressure on the Spartans deep The Irish. now 9-16-1 in the in their zone. WCHA ( 12-17-ll overalll take to 
the road for their final series away It took only 2:25 in the middle from home ice. 
--------~--------------~~~~~~~-----·----­
ND Sports Slate 
Ft'll. Ill B,\SKETBALL-against Air Force at ACC, 8: lOp.m . Ft>b.ll WH ESTLING-against Southwest Michigan and Marquette Ft•h. I:! at ACC. 7:00p.m. S\\'IMMI!'/G-against Western Michigan at Rockne Ft>b. i\1Pmorial Pool. 7:00 p.m.
1:1 
BASKETBALL-against St. John's at Madison Square Garden 
Ft>b. U IIOCKEY-at Michigan Tech: FENCING-at Cleveland, Oberlin 
WHESTLING-at Maverick Classic <Omaha, Neb.)Feb. 15 BASKETBALL-against LaSalle at ACC, 3:00 p.m. IIOCKEY-at Michigan Tech SWIMMING-against Purdue at Rockne pooL 4:00 o.m. FENCING-at Michigan State, Wayne State and Ohio State TRACK-at Cleveland, Ohio. 






