

I I 
~
server 1 
university of notre dame -st. mary's college 
SENIOR CLUB managers Maureen Creighton, Glf Johnson and Steve lnfault enjoy a round at their establishment. Now open, the club's hours will be 7 pm -2 am on Wednesdays and Thursdays, 4 pm -6 pm for Happy Hour on Friday, 7pm. 2am Friday evenings and 6 pm-2am on Saturdays.(Photo by Chris Smith) 
Byrne predicts changes in student life, drinking 
by Jim VVinters Staff Reporter 

Proposals for coed housing at Notre Dame and for a lower drinking age in Indiana have a good chance of passing this year, Student Body President Ed Byrne said Thursday. 
"I'm optimistic," said Byrne. "The whole point of the COUL (Committee on Undergraduate Li(e) report was that we should begin discussion this year so that we'll have a coed dorm for the incoming freshmen in 1976." But Byrne added that many unknowns, including the position of University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh on the issue, may yet prevent the creation of a coed dorm. 
The outlook for passage of a lower drinking age is brighter, Byrne believes. In the last legislative session, a series of dinking bills glutted the state legislature, and all were killed. This year, only one bill will be introduced, a situation which Byrne maintains considerably improves the chances of passage. 
"One never knows what will happen in Indianapolis," Byrne cautions. "But no one has come up to us and said, 'You don't have a chance.' If we do our homework well, and present our case llC­curately, then we have achanceof passing a reasonable approach to the problem of underage drinking." 
Concerning other issues, the SBP 
believes he has the support of the Student Affairs Committee on nearly all proposals contained in the COUL report. Byrne forsees "a very strong movement". toward fulfilling most of the short­range goals of COUL.whichlinclude a greater role for women in the faculty and student body, im· proved attitudes toward coeducation and a careful study of hall rules regarding alcohol, parietals and premarital sex. 
Byrne says that the defeat of extended parietals hours by the Student Life Council late last semester is his greatest disap­pointment since assuming office April 1. The SBP president was especially disappointed that the parletals issue degenerated Into "a silly discussion of arbitrary hours, of midnight or 1 a.m." 
"We need a parietals policy 
which reflects our lifestyle~e which is enforceable," argues Byrne. "The only way we can get rid of parietals hours for good is to show we're enforcing them. And the only way to do that is to pick a limit that can be enforced." Byrne added that the parietals issue "is not dead," and that the SLC will vote on the proposal again this 
year. 
Byrne's greatest ac­
•complishment, he believes, has been his reorganization of student government. In order to avoid duplication of effort between the branches of government, Byrne has been meeting regularly with Student Union Director Tom Birsic, Ombudsman Matt Cockrell, Hall Presidents Council Chairman Elton Johnston, Academic Council Rep. Mike (iassman, and others. Student Government and student union officers will meet in a joint cabinet session for the first time this Sunday, Sept. 14. 
An effort has also been made to 
make the operations of student 
government, which lost $35 
thousand last year, more fiscally 
sound. All government com­
missions now have business 
managers, and a student union 
comptroller controls all ex­
penditures. 
A food co-op for off-campus 
students is "ready to go," says 
Byrne, but so far there are· few 
participants,. The president says 
an upcoming registration effort 
should change that. Student Body 
Vice President Tom Fitzgerald, 
who is organizing the program, 
estimates the co-op should have 
participants as much as 10 to 15 per 
cent in food costs. 
Other plans still under con­sideration include a revamping of the residence halls judicial systems, in order to make them "more consistent and competent," and a "permanenet and flexible 
plan for picking calendars," with a priority, says Byrne, on student input into the planning of the 
academic year. 
"If we have one goal," says 
Byrne, "It's that we want to get 
student representation in every 
group whose decisions effect our 
daily lives. The student 
unionexists to organize good times. 
Student government exists to eliminate the hassles. By the end of the year, I hope people will know we've been around." 
Friday, September 12, 1975 

Filth in a series 
COUL studies ND financing 
. The Committee on Undergraduate Life <COUL) was created by the Board of Trustees in response to 
a suggestion by a group of student leaders last year. The Committee made a five part report to lhe 
board on STUDENT LIFE PRIORITIES/last May. 
Today, in the last of a five-part series Copy Editor Ken Bradford examines the report of COUL's 
Committee on Finance. 
Financial aid policies and the ever-increasing costs of operating the University were the main topics discussed by the Finance Committee. 
The committee also investigated hall im­provement plans, basketball ticket pricing policies and funding for Notre Dame club spOrts. 
Committee member Diane Merten said the group was concerned that increasing tuition costs could result in pricing the middle-class student out of Notre Dame. 
"It's almost like a vicious /circle," Merten said. "Whenever the administration announces an in­crease in tuition, room and board, they also have to increase their payments of scholarpships." 
So while the University attempts to increase its income, it also increases its scholarship expenses, she said. And while the disadvantaged student's scholarship is increased to compensate for the tuition hikes, the middle-class student who is not on scholarship must suffer the increase. 
In examining the situation, the committee con­ferred with' Fr. Jerome Wilson vice president of business affairs; Mrs. June McCauslin, director of financial aid, and Dr. James Frick, vice president of public relation and development. 
The committee commended the University for 
consistent attempts to keep room-and-board costs 
low. Charges to students for room-and-board at 
Notre Dame are lower than most comparable 
private sch<>Qls, according to a survey presented by 
Frick. 
One solution to the financing problem' would be to 
employ more students at the University, the 
committee said. It recommended that Student 
Due to Buckley amendment 


Students now able to see files 
Valerie Zurblis and Gregg Bangs 
Senior Staff Reporters 
Students are now able to examine their personal academic records under the auspices of the Buckley Educational Amendment. 
The Amendment, which was introduced by Sen. James Buckley (Conservative, NY) last October, intended to restore "parental rights and to protect privacy.'' After a number of postponements, the amendment took effect on Dec. 31, 1974. 
Approximately 20 students have taken advantage of this amend­ment since then, according to Dr. Phillop Faccenda, university counsel. "In discussing the files with them, most apprehensions are resolved," commented Faccenda. 
"Eight out of ten students are asking for files not available," continued Faccenda. Health records are not released except to student's personal qualified physicians.. 
For example, if a student was recieving medical care from University physicians and wished to continue treatment at home, his personal medical records would be transferred to his !physician. However, the student would not be allowed access to his file. This is University policy, Faccenda said. 
Also, personal recommendation files made in confidence before Dec. 31, 1974 have not been released. 
Academic records are availa,ble for student perusal by applying at the University Counsel's office. They will obtain the files and go over them with students. 
Many students are concerned about their disciplinary records, Faccenda mentioned. Disciplinary records are not available, but Faccenda explained it is University policy to destroy these records unless the student was expelled or suspended. "This number is less than five per year," the Council said. 
"There are no cross references and no master computer files on students and that was the type of 

The committee also commended the efforts of the financial aid office and recommended that en­dowment fund campaign drives "give ,special emphasis and attention to increased aid to students." 
Physical improvement of the residence h~lls was examined in the light of a Hall Presidents Council directive that Student Government allocation to the halls not be used for permanent hall improvements. The rationale behind this ban is that the funds are drawn from student activity fees. 
The committee recommended that Fr. Wilson meet with the HPC to explain the procedure for procurring funds for hall improvements. It also . called for hall presidents and rectors to submit requests for such funds using the proper procedures. 
The problem is not that there are not funds available for hall improvements, the committee said, but that there is inadequate knowledge of the 
means of receiving the funds from the University. 
(Continued on page 8) 
thing Buckley objected to," Faccenda stated. 
The deans of the colleges of Arts and Letters, Engineering and Business all agree to follow University policy in releasing student files. 
Assistant Dean of Arts and Letters Robert J. Waddick said, "I completely agree with the University policy on this matter. I think it's by far the best way to handle it." 
Although the Business College will comply with the University policy, Associate Dean of Business Vince Raymond has his own philosophy on the issue. 
"Rarely, if ever, have I seen something in a student's folder that was not put in by a student himself," he said. "If he did not put it in himself, it was something that was put in prior to getting into Notre Dame." 
"If a student has a hang-up over what a teacher might have said about him in a high school recommendation, then I would just as soon let him look at it," Raymond stated. 


pages. 
r 
I 
I 
~ 
,,..., 7 1 ,,.

2 the observer 'Is '&t 
warld briefs 
CINCINNATI, Ohio (AP)-The recent death ot a Middletown 
woman here may have been caused by the Saint Louis strain of 
encaphalitis , Dr. Arnold Leff, Cincinnati h~lth commissioner said 
Thursday.

Leff said he is waiting for the result of tests on serum samples to 
determine the cause of death of the Woman at General Hospital 
here. No identity was immediately available, and General 
Hospital officials said they were looking into the matter. 
CINCINNATI, Ohio (AP) -A three-judge panel Thursday sentenced Jerry Jackson to death for his part in the death of high school student Charles Ponerantz Jr. 
Jackson, 23, was sentenced to die in the electric chair on Jan. 14, 1976 for his part in the death of the high school student during an armed robbery at a gas station. 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The Agriculture Department said today the 1975 corn crop will be a record of almost 5.69 billion bushels, up 22 per cent from last year's harvest and a major step toward supplying more grain to the Soviet Union without causing U.S. food prices to soar. 
UNITED IllATIONS, N.Y. (AP) -The Soviet Union proposed today a treaty barring underground as well as all other atomic weapons tests. 
The proposed pact would consolidate, supplement and enlarge the 1963 Moscow treaty banning nuclear weapons tests in the at­mosphere, outer space and under water, and the 1974 U.S.-Soviet pact limiting underground nuclear tests. 
an c:ampus taday 
friday, sept. 12, 1975 

4:30 
pm -colloquium, prof. daniel burns, princeton university, room 226, computing center; 

4:30 
pm -lecture reilly lectures "structure of van der waals molecules", prof. klemperer, room 123, nieuwland; 


5:15 pm -mass and supper, bulla shed; 4pm-picnic "senior class picnic", smc clubhouse 9pm-1am-smc coffeehouse, 9, dan bishop; 10, rick walters; 11, tim miller; midnight, george adelo as pete snake, lower level, smc dining hall; 10 pm -nazz, grand opening, basement Iafortune; 
saturday, sept, 13, 1975 

9 am-conference, "project c.h.o.l.c.e.", education dept., carroll 
hall; 

2 pm-opening, opening reception "hot times: five on the fire", second annual Invitational ceramic show, moreau gallery; 10 pm -nazz, basement Iafortune; 
sunday, sept. 14, 1975 

10:45 am -mass, "formal opening of 1975-76 academic year", sacred heart church; 2pm-reception, "community-wide reception for john m. duggan, smc president", stapleton lounge; 3 pm -reception, "president's reception for new faculty mem­bers", center for continuing education. 


New murals to decorate St. Mary's colleeshop 
Jazz babies, war babies, girls in bloomers and girls in chapel veils are all the subjects of a new per­manent exhibition in the Saint Mary's College coffee shop, on the ground level of the dining hall, The aeries, photographic silk-screens on canvas, depicts student life at, Sain.t Mary's from the 1890's to the 1950's. 
Created by Susan Friedman, a 1974 graduate of the college, tee exhibit consists of seven canvases each with silk-screens stuffed and stitched to its surface. 
Friedman spent "about a month" in the archives poring over old . yearboqks, alumnae magazines and ·college bulletins before selectins the pictures used 
Alcbhol price ad ban to be lifted 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The Indiana Alcoholic Beve!:_age Commission will forego its plans to tighteo ft& prohibitioll ·or ad­}rtising of liquor prices, a 
1pokesman for Gov. Otis R 
lowen said Thursday. 

William Watt, the governor's press aide, said the comQ\issioo n•et with William Lloyd 'M the gcwernor's staff and agreed to l":ithdraw the proposals. 
·~att said the . commission wi. · begin action to rescind existing regulations forbidding liquc·r price advertising. 
Although resulatlon of liquor aale11 is necessary, "The rule may primully favor the in­dustry ra~ than tbe public," Watt ll&id. 
in the -work. 
"I used pictures of students, partly to make the work more personal, and partly because simple pictures work better in thir medium. Architectural detail~ tend to get lost after they've been transferred in the silk-screening process." 
A photography major at Saint Mary's, Friedman will continue her studies at the Art lnstiture of Chicago this year. 
The coffee shop, used as a student coffeehouse on Friday nig)tts during the school year, ha.s ~n transformed during the past year into what Kathy Carrigan, senior and student manager of the coffeehouse, calls "a much more liveable place-not only fQf -the coffeehouse but for the entire community. Sue's murals really capture the warm, reflective mood we've been trying to create." 
The coffee shop ·is open from 
10:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. daily. It reopens Sunday to Thursday frorp 4:30p.m. to midnight. Fr4d4y and Saturday the coffeeshop is open from 4:30 p.m. until2 a.m. 

COUP decision expected 


Possible art dept•.move planne 
by Patrick Cole Staff Reporter 
The Committee .Pn University Priorities <COUP) must decide whether to relocate the Art Department or remodel the Old Fieldhouse. 
Father James Flanigan, C.S.C., chairman of the department for the past two years, expects a decision sometime this fall. "We made a new projection plan for the physical need of the art depart­ment. We need a certain amount of space." 
The expansion of the Notre Dame Art Gallery's collections in 
SMCcoffeehouse opens tonight 

St. Mary's Friday night cof: feehouse opens tonight under new management. This year's cof­feehouse managers are Jeanne Ripley and Kathy Leibert. 
New personnel are needed to be sound technicians, hostesses and musicians. Anyone interested should contact Ripley at 4386. 
Former manager Kathy Carrigan stated that a new back­drop has been installed to the coffeehouse to improve sound. Extending 32 feet, this backdrop will block out the vending area and eliminate some of the background noises. 
Opening the coffeehouse's third year are: Dan Bishop at 9 p.m., Rick Walters at 10 p.m., Tim Miller at 11 p.m., and George Adelo at midnight. 

Placement nignts 
slated for seniors 
The Notre Dame Placement Bureau will sponsor three placement nights for seniors and graduate students September 16-18 in the Engineering Auditorium. Activities will begin at 7 p.m. each night. 
Tuesday night's program will address students in Business Administration, Wednesday's those in Engineering and Science and Thursday's Arts and Letters students. Students who cannot attend on their scheduled night should select one of the other two evenings. 
Boat christening 

in Sacred Heart 

The Notre Dame Rowing Club will launch a new 65-foot racing shell tomorrow, following B christening ceremony atn :30 a.m in Sacred Heart. · 
Fr. James T. Burtchaell university provost, will offer mas: and and christen the craft the 'Steven A. Buccini.' The crew will then transport the boat to St. Mary's Lake and launch it at approximately 12:15 p.m. 
Members of the Notre Dame-st. Mary's community are invited 
The Observer Is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 10 dollars per semester (18 dollars per year) from The Ob­server, Box Q, Notre Dame, In­diana, 46556. Second Class postage 
aid, Notre_ Dame, IN 46556. 

* .egr. C~··~•E ....__
~ ~.~~~ T~um:H·fl
~.,' 

Dan Bishop Tim Miller Rick Walters 112 Pete Sna 9:00-1:00 
under the 
music 'n' 
dining hall 
munchies 

O'Shaughnessy Hall continues to limit the space available to the Art Department. "The industrial. design facilities are the only thing left of the Art Del¥lrtment in O'Shaughnessy Hall, 'except the office," comments Fr. Flanigan. "The rest is housed in the Old 
Fieldhouse." 
Fr. Flanigan states the Old Fieldhouse has roof leaks, lack of maintenance and an undesirable appearance. Nevertheless, he would like to see the building renovated. Other possibilities :-re converting the bookstore into an art facility or building a new center for the Art Department. 
The determining factor will be an economical one. Fund raising campaigns through foundations proved to be unsuccessful. The cost of anv ootion would be at least 
one million dollars. Remodeling the Old Fieldhouse would be least expensive, according to Fr. Flanigan. 
Fr. Flanigan contends that the Old Fieldhouse serves as an adequate facility. "An artist who attended the ceramic workshop this summer," he said, "sent us a letter showing his support to keep the fieldhouse. Some artists 
believed that it was the 
unique facility of its kind in 
the 
country." 
At this stage, the University will 
consider the cost and maintenance 
of the options. "We have to be 
housed permanently other than we 
are now," said Fr. Flanigan. "So 
we are waiting to see what will be 
the outcome." 
Blood donations are sought for 


SMC alumna 
Members of the St. Mary's and 
Notre Dame community have been 
asked to donate over 100 pints of 
blood to a St. Mary's alumnae. 
Katheryn Canan Nicolosi, of the class of 1969, was involved in a serious auto accident and is in need of blood of any type. 
. Anyone over·is years of age tcan, 
donate blood by calling the South 
Bend Blood bank at 234-ll57 for an 
appointment. Donators should 
specify that the blood is being 
donated for Nicolosi, so that it can 
be transferred to Cincinnati 
General Hospital. 
For further information, call Joanne Rockne at 4578. 
HOKEY'S CAP 'N CORK UNQE_R NEW MANAGEMENT NOW SERVING SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST GLASS OF BEER 24 oz. • 60~ 6-1 0 om 4 PIECES OF FRIED CHICKEN 99~ 
NILES & LASALLE AVE. 



----~--~--~ 
--------------------------------,
~------­

Friday, September 12, 1971 the observer 
Nation's drivers still speeding 
parently aimed at preventing state patrol car with its lights In Utah, for example, a tickets, more than three times By G.G. -~aBELLE loss of federal highway funds, flashing. spokesman said speeding tick­the monthly average before. 
Associated Press Writer which can be taken away from The reporter in New Jersey ets were running 20 per cent Opinions varied among driv­The nation's drivers are still states not enforcing the 55 noted that the biggest offenders above last year, when they had ers questioned about the 55 whizzing along highways above m.p.h. limit. seemed to be trucks, most of doubled from the previous year m .p.h limit, and the random 
55 mile per hour limit de­Earlier this week, the U.S. which seemed to be driving at when higher speed limits were survey provided no basis for signed to conserve energy de­Transportation Department or­speeds of around 70 m.p.h., in effect. determining a consensus. spite recent increases in gaso­dered all states to furnish data about what they did before the In Connecticut, a spokesman In Utah, however, one police­line prices, an Associated Press showing they were enforcing lowered limits. Some police and said state police issued 4,994 man noted that even among 
survey shows. the lower speed limit. · service station operators in oth­tickets in it those stopped for speeding most 
In the survey, AP reporters -Police officials in most er states had the same feeling was in effect. State police is­say they agree with the lower drove at 55 m.p.h. for an hour states believe that drivers, if and said that salesman were sued 16,227 speeding tickets in limit. during a weekday noontime this not following the 55 m.p.h. lim­also more frequent offenders. the same period last year and One exception was a driver 
week on highways across the it, are at least driving at 24,292 in January-July this from Vermont questioned at a country. The test showed that speeds below what they did be-Charles Clinton, a Texas tru­year. gas station in Idaho. in only one state was the re­fore it went into effect. Many cker, expressed the atitude of In Maryland, police said that "I never pay any attention to 
porter, while driving at the le­police also said they thought many of his colleagues: "I in the month since they begana the speed limit," he said. gal limit, able to pass more lowered speed limits had low-waste more fuel gearing down speeding crackdown July 29 "He has the tickets to prove cars than passed him. ered traffic fatalities, though to get over the hills than I save they's issued 24,800 !'~ding it," added his wife. safety officials say figures do going 55. In a truck you need to 
And in that state, West Vir-not necessarily substantiate be able to go 65 to 70 to get a 
SUNDAY MASSES

ginia, the reporter said he be-this. run at the hills." lieved the test was thrown off -Opinions of police varied on The New Jersey reporter also 

(Main Church) 

by drivers from the opposite di-whether drivers were com-noted that turnpike traffic did rection blinking t;eir lights to plying with the lower speed not even slow down while pass-warn of a radar speed trap. limit more now than when it ing a state police patrol car 
Sat 5:15 p.m. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. The survey also showed: first went into effect. parked on the side of the road. -The number of speeding The highest incidence of Asked about whether the 55 
Sun 9:30 a.m. Fr. Leonard Banas, C.S.C. 
tickets is up considerably over speeding was reported in New m.p.h. limit was being en­
Presiding:

the period before the 55 m.p.h. Jersey, where the test driver forced, a New Jersey state po­
Sun 10:45 a.m. Fr. Theodore Hesburgh.C.S.C.
limit was put into effect in reported he was passed by lice spokesman replied: "Abso­
Formal Opening Mass Homilist:
March of last year. In some more than 200 vehicles on the lutely." Since New Jersey cases the number is more than New Jersey Turnpike and records of traffic tickets are 
Fr. James Burtchaell C.S.C double or triple what in was in passed only two vehicles. not divided into individual of­
Sun 12:15 p.m. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. 
the pre-55 m.p.h. period. On the opposite end of the fenses, it could not be deter­-Police have increased at-spectrum was New Mexico, mined if speeding tickets were tempts to trap speeders, in where the reporter said he was on the increase in the state. In other states police showed-
and unmarked patrol cars. passed four. But he noted one large increases in the number p f Ca d 
Some of these efforts are ap-of the cars passim• him was a of tickets. a ron r s I 
Malpractice claims VAILABLE STARTING FRI. S~PT. 121 $~~~:.~~0 l.~~if. Unn~;~~~~.~~;r. rT STUDE~T-~N;~N T~~~:; OFFICE
1 

Associated Press Writer However, Benjamin said his malpractice suits on a "contin-I INDIANAPOLIS <AP) -The proposal wolJld require careful gent" basis -basing their fees • _____Limited Supplycontroversial $500,000 limit on study and probably woul" not on percentage of the malprac-....... medical malpractice claims, a be an issue in the 1976 Indiana tice award-they are reluctant 

N.D. TAE KWQN DO CLUB 
key feature of Indiana's 1975 General Assembly. to represent clier ts with claims law, may be unnecessary, a amounting to $15,000 or less be-special committee said Thurs-Some members of the com-cause their fee .isn't enough to day. mittee, headed by Dr. Gilbert cover expenses. 
SHORT GE.\IERAL MEETING 
The committee, formed under Wilelmus of Evansville, presi-The committee decided the 1975 medical malpractice dent of the Indiana State Medi-Thursday to investigate creal­
ALL OLD MEMBERS MEET IN WRESTLING
law to oversee the program cal Association, were concerned ing an arbitration board to and work out any bugs, met that patients with small medi-handle the small suits and giv­
GYM OF ACC 6:15pm TONIGHT
Thursday for the first time. cal malpractice suits are ing the losing party a right to Among other things, the com-unable to find a lawyer to rep-appeal the board's decision to a 
any questions call 289-1278 or 287-6189 
mittee voted to investigate: resent them. court. -Eliminating the $500,00 cap 
*new members watch for 

on malpractice awards. 
us at activities night.

-Moving malpractice suits 
Area banks curtail
involving $15,000 or less out of 
the courts and into private ar­
bitration. 
m~r <nolonial
-Cutting malpractice rates 
college student loans 
charged hard-to-insure doctorf 
who buy their policies from th' 
Jnncakr ~ousr
by Mary Reher eliminated student loans two years state-backed "residual mar 
Senior Staff Reporter ago. The bank will refinance loans ket." obtained prior to that time, she 
=JJ

-Extending the malpractice Several banks have discoun­
noted, but it will not grant new 
''Enjoy a snack or dinner"
law to cover blood banks, nurs-tinued the Guaranteed Student 
ones. She was told student loans
lng homes and mental facil-Loan Program as a result of the 
-==:===~==:==========:::::::::==========:~=:=======~===::::::::=:==:====:=:::::::::::::==•

were not worthwhile because of the 
ities. low interest rate of seven per cent, 
:;:; 35 Varieties of Pancakes :::;

low interest rate and the dif­
-Changing the law to require Gary Sebaspian, loan officer of St. 
}Chicken -Steak -Sandwiches r

ficulties in collecting payments.
the loser in a malpractice suit Joseph Bank and Trust Co., said 
~~~5 Friday Nites: Perch Dinners r

McCauslin said, "Banks 
to pay court costs instead of yesterday. 
generally claim there is not enough 
:i::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::.if

the winner. Considering the bonus the 
money in student loans. Some 
Your Host

-Giving "self-insured• • hospi-federal government allots the bank 
banks still offer loans to establish 
U.S. 31 (Oixieway) North
tals and doctors the Jaw's pro-each quarter for handling student good public relations." 
(Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards, NO '50
tection against "extraordinary" loans, the maximum interest 
awards.  banks can receive is ten per cent,  "Because banks are looking for  
The malpractice law passed  Sebaspian noted.  business in this locale," she con­ 
by  the  1975  legislature  was  "Compare that ten per cent with  tinued, "they often limit the loans  
aimed at curbing skyrocketing  the interest on a car loan ranging  to residents of the area, preferably 
malpractice  insurance  rates  by  from 11.08 per cent to 17 per cent," he said.  their customers."  
limiting  an  Insurance  com- Because many South Bend banks  Three South  Bend  banks  con­ 
pany's liability  to $IOO,OOO for  require a student be a permanent  tacted  require  students  to  be  
each  incident  of  m~l~racti~e  area  resident,  many  students  permanent residents of the area as  
and providing a spec a sta efund to pay up to $400,000 addi­tional damages in "extraor­ apply for loans in their home states according to Director of Financial  well as customers with either a checking or savings account.  f  
dinary"  cases.  The  fund  Is  fl- Aid June McCauslin.  These include American National  1  
nanced charge  by on  a per cent sur­10malpractice insur- A Walsh Hall resident was unable to jet a loan from her home  Bank and Trust Company, First Bank and Trust, and National  ,, ~  
ance  policies sold  to hospitals  town ba~ last summer because it  Bank and Trust.  ~  

~~~a~edical personnel in In-:.••g:.lrrM•••\f:j{"ft·~wrJ~:...-..•••::• 
Sen. Adam Benjamin Jr., D-1, .LY1 r J. I .,1 vnJ:. 
~=~~~~~ !~te~eof~e 1 as~: !OPEN : MON -SAT 9am -11 pm: pervlsory committee, said : SUNDAY • 
Thursday the constitutionality e 12n00n • 11 pm : of umiting malpractice awards • COLD BEER WINE LIQUOR • 
to $500,000 probably would be : 1 1 ' : challenged in court soon. • GORMET FOODS • He said eliminating the cap : : 
would not cause malpractice tn-:: 311A S. 1,,1_ St. NILES, MICHIGAN·.·. 
surance premiums to increase, ~ 
~~~fd ~~;::.su:tan,~~o.~~obl~l~~ ! I 0 BIGGE$T LITTLE , : ~ 
STUDENT UNION PRESENTS 
In newSm.'fn spltndor...The most magnifittnt pidure nu! DAVID 0. SELZNICK'S 
CilRKGABLE VMENLEIGH tESLIE HOWARn OLIVIAdeHAVIUAND 
SlEREOf'HONIC SOUND MElROCOlDR MMGM Re -.. 
SATURDAY & SUNDAY 
. 
SEPTEMBER 13 & 14 
4 and 8 p.m. ENGINEERING AUD. . . . $1 
t t t 
I 
' 
' 
t 
' 
.It t 
• 
I 

tile state would pick up the bal-•••~.9}l..J1.§1.9.VAJlf.-l~~jQAL.~.-~-----.,...---~-....-~ !W.-.:.l""'t'f~PP" 
'.,.,.J'/','4 ..... ,.. ,.,... t .......... t •. · ,. . ~' '(,;·'' ~''( .:··· •. ·•• ~/-,. ...... ~·.-1'''· ··'~~,~,~i-... ~ . . .• .. 
:~, ..•:,::.:•.;::~'::·. ,,,;~~.::~;~•.::::_'~ ·• ~. -~·-'· \ .... • ', ~,' ;;, .-, • ~·, •.. •~.<l'."f..~.r.'.-·..-,. . ,\.·' '·' -n·.~ ,'•t'<' . . . . . . . • ..· •• ' • , ',.,. • .. A " ><', P .. • ' .. ~ ·' .. ,., -< ·' • ••. 

the observer _ Friday, Septemj)er 12, 1975
4 

GSU sets .goals for enthusiasm 
by Themas J. Conaty Staff Reporter 

Officers of the Graduate Student Union yesterday ouUined plans and goals for the coming year. 
Prsident Margaret Grounds and 
' Vice-president Don Roy said they hope to make the GSU active in on­campus affairs and create en­thusiasm among graduate students. Help and advice from the Office of Advanced Studies, under Dr. 'Robert Gordon, has not been lacking, according to Grounds. "It is the student enthusiasm and participation that is needed," said Roy. To ope11 the year for graduate 
Earn minimum wage 
1000 studentsvvorking on campus 
by Mary Pat Tarpey students receive the minimum Staff Reporter wag~ with average work weerof 12 hours. 
Fred Freeman, director of According to Freeman, jobsstudent personnel, estimated that include a variety of tasks with the 1000 students are employed ~n heaviest concentration of students 
campus through the Student ~fking for Food Services Employment Office, with a followed by the library. "We have minimum wage set at $2.10 an students working clerical type jobs hour. for various departments, service Although certain jobs have a type jobs such as the library and slightly higher pay, the majority of the laundry, and also Food Ser-
Nations school strikes continue: N.Y. s to end 
By The Associated Press 
Both sides in the New York teachers' strike said Thursday that agreement could be reached Friday to end the walkout that has virtually closed schools for the city's 1.1 million pupils. 
City officials said they were optimistic a settlement could be reached Friday, and union president Albert Shanker said he thought accord could be reached "in a few intensive hours of negotiations." 
Chicago's 530,000 public school students remained out of classes due to a teachers' strike, meanwhile, and walk­outs continued against schools in dozens of smaller commu­nities across the nation. 
In New York, the optimistic comments came as the city de­layed court proceedings that could have led to the jailing of Shanker, president of the United Federation of Teachers. 
Bargaining in the New York strike has been compllcated by a takeover of many of the city's budgetary affairs by a state board under legialatloa aimed at solving the city's massive fiscal crisis. 
The New York officials re­quested and were given a 24­hour delay in a decision on their motion to make per­manent a temporary order against the strike under the state's Taylor law. The law bans public employe strikes, and Shanker could be jailed un­der it. 
In asking the delay, city offi­cials said bargaining was prog­ressing to end the strike by the city's 65,000 public school teachers. Shortly before, Shan-
CAPRI LIQUOR STORE 

At the corner of Ironwood and Edison (Rear of C:apri Restaurant) 
students, the GSU has planned a picnic from noon to 5 p.m. this Sunday at Carroll Hall. Graduate student J.D.'s will be required for attendance, and organized games are included in the schedule of events. 
A pre-game social will be held at Badin Hall from 10 a.m. to 12:30 
p.m. on September 'J:'/. 
Grounds and Roy hope that graduate students will take ad­vantage of these activities to meet new faces and renew old acquaintances. Off-campus and married students are especially urged to attend to strengthen their contact with events on campus. 
"Departmental events have always had good attendance," Roy noted, and said he hopes that equal participation will occur in the upcoming activities. The GSU is 
ker had said that if the courts 
stayed out of the dispute, 
"there is a good chance that we 
can end this thing by Tues­
day." 
Officials said the earliest 
classes could begin would be 
Wednesday, since teachers 
could not ratify a pact before 
Tuesday. Monday is the solemn 
Jewish holiday of Yom Kippur, 
a school holiday. 
The strike in Chicago, which 
has idled 27,000 teachers, was 
in its seventh school day with 
negotiations continuing. The 
major issue in the dispute was 
said to be wages. Under the old 
contract, the teachers made 
from $10,400 to $20,996 _a year. 
Classes in Pawtucket, R.I., were canceled Thursday as teachers failed to return to classes in defiance of a new court order. They had defied an earlier order, but it was over­turned in court. 
In Clover Park, negotiators held an all-night bargaining session after 300 to 400 parents and children stationed them­selves outside the bargaining site and prevented negotiators ~~ leaving. 


P-LAYLAN!" GOLF QNTER 
OPEN: dawn 'til 6:00 p.m. 9 HOLE • PI>,R 3 GOlF COORSE Driving Range J8 Hoie Mioiafure 
LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWOOD 
FREE 
THIS CERTIFICATE GOOD FOR PAR 3or MINIATURE GOLF ADMISSION WITH A PAID ADMISSION 
On !lther The Par 3 or The Miniature 
Offer Expires September 14 
considering sponsoring a number of films and dances, ·Roy added, and welcomes any ideas and suggestions students may have. 
One of the difficulties the GSU will face is the loss of Lewis Hall ~ a Graduate residence hall. The large recreation room in the basement of Lewis formerly served as the location for a number of forma\ and informal graduate activities. 
Grounds said that the GSU has been considering a pumber of sites, such as the Knights of Columbus and the University Club, as possible locations for a new recreation area, but nothing definite has been decided as yet. 
Grounds and Roy believe that they can be of service to the graduate studen~ by representing them . on university committees 
vices in Dining Halls and the Huddle." 
The office, located in Brownson Hall, places students in con­junction with the Financial Aid Office. Freeman explained the connection between the two of­fices. "We are subject to the Financial Aid Office to a certain extent. They deal with total financial needs of a studentt If they can't satisfy that need through scholarships, they'll ask 
r:a~0 ;:~g~~~;:r:~r: j~~-1~~
SUbject tO the dictates Of the Financial Aid Office." 

Freeman explained that in placing students his office handles 
commitments to the Financial Aid Office first. Freeman suggested if 
~~!~~~:1t ~~crgh~o~: !~~ s~~:~ 
first fill out an application with
Financial Aid. "By financial need we mean someone who needs money to pay for tuition or room and board." 
After financial aid commitments are met, other students will be placed. "Some students know they can't qualify for financial aid; we can't encourage them. After all financial aid commitments are met we'll consider others who want to work." Freeman said there is a "sizeable" waiting list. 
Freeman said there are no job openings available. "Right now we're having a difficult time fin­ding spots for all the people from Financial Aid. Usually as the semester wears on, vacancies appear. We're finding less of this now with the financial situation. Things may clear up." 
However, Freeman emphasized that his office welcomes students to come in and fill out a short application for the file. u.._ny' experience isn't necessary, although some jobs require typing. 
and providing a variety of ser-attitudes withili the GSU. vices. Mary Beth Ahern, a first-year 
A number. of graduate students graduate student in chemistry, contacted seemed generally expressed a typical opinion when favorable to the plans outlined by she said, "I'm more involved in my Grounds and Roy, and agreed that studies 1than ,in social activities, the Lewis Hall controversy of last but it is good to see new ideas and year has resulted in new ideas and more events planned." 
IN$TANT C:UDIT -­
. SPEcIAll II 
D-IcK's e FOREIGN CAll TUNE-UP
- ONLY $36.95 FOR:·  
J I ~~ ~ II'; E; CORBY  STaMIMt SERVICE "'=.~f:~ Ol~~btor  NE:w.: POINTS, CONDENSER SPARK PLUGS I' CHECK YOUR TIMING: _ C 0 M P L E T E  
7.11t.iwRECKER &  ELECTRICAL  r  

/ 1;1 ROAD SERVICE CLEAN BAT~~~:~ABLES,,I
MOTOR TUNE-UP 
IRAKESERYICE ADJUST CARBUREATOR I 
AL~~~~NT 23.. 0D7IAL07 1\lON.-SAT. 7am-llpm I 
Oiclc K.ruk -Owner .­

Sou::o:e~:·.Bre::.,AY~6617 (O~~:~:t::~:p:ppllcable 
to·l. 
specials.)

......______________,..___ --· 
'IIH(:&Al; WIE....fi -RoOM ~ftS -~ •oft'E D~Mi P:AREHl5 ·OR -VI$1TO:RS 

'8~
· ·Oou.ble occuPiJn~y 
J4o\No,ri' ~e ldehtlflcatfon requlred, Just mention t,t\15 ad~ Etfe~~~v~~Y Fr,:l., Sat. or Sun. 'xcept Mf111J. ~~-ball game weekends. 
:HICKO~Y INN MOTEL 
. so·52A. U s· 3·1 u.i-...6&.. .. ~ · • • ._-111 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 
--{219) 272-7555 :3_ m.U•s N.orth_ of the Tollroad 
.,. 
CQhle ,J.V..,· Air Cond., Phones. 
Ser.td.. tbis: od--t~ your parents 

il'-·;;,a;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;-;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;-;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:::::::::~ 
,. 
NOW OPEN AT GENERAL STORE 
FEATURING THE LATEST IN JEANS AND TOPS. 
HOURS: 10-9 MON-SAT 
12-5 SUNDAY 
START THE YEAR RIGHT IN A PAIR OF PATCHWORK JEANS 

1621 So Bend Ave.  (BEHIND LINEBACKER)  
Phone ow=  233  - 68.67  

ROD STEWART & FACES 


with the J. Ge·ils Band 
IN CONCERT SATURDAY OCTOBER 4th at 7:30pm at ACC 
TICKET PRICES $7.50 & $6.50 



Tickets Now on Sale 
at ACC & STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 
By Student Union & Pacific Presentations 

f 
/Fidday, September 12, 1975 the observer 
'Good' panty raid hit campus Wednesday 
by Mary Rukavina Staff Reporter 

An estimated 500 Notre Dame students staged a panty raid early Thursday morning on the women's dormitories at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. The raid, which lasted 
Chicago Club canoe race Sat. 
The Chicago Club will spnsor a two-man canoe race tomorrow at 1 
p.m. on St. Joseph's Lake. All equipment will be provided for anyone interested in competing. 
Competitors are asked to be on the dock by 12 noon for registration. There is no entry fee and the winners will receive an award. 
Permission to use the lake was granted by the Office of the Dean of Students. For more in­formation, call 287-6759. 
'Making do· 
Dver two hours, nas oecome a traditional event on the Wed­nesday night before the first football game. 
Most of the activity took place on the St. Mary's campus as the students stormed the courtyard outside LeMans and McCandless Halls. Nina Huber, LeMans Hall director, explained the usual procedure followed in handling such an event. 
"We were prepared for this raid and we have certain procedures we follow. Our Security and Notre Dame's engage in a joint effort," she said. "Thewomen'sdorms are called by Security and we are informed as to when the crowd is coming." 
Huber said that the fire doors in the halls lock around six and eight p.m. and that the main doors were locked at around 12:15 p.m. when Security informed her that the raid had begun. 
"The R.A.'s are told to keep the 
girls in the rooms and out of the halls," she explained. "We try to .\keep them from hanging out windows and off roofs to avoid any 
serious injury." 
Anthony Kovatch, director of 
Security at St. Mary's estimated 
the damage to be "very slight," at 
a cost of around $1~. Kovatch 
said, "We had a jofnt security and 
cleanup effort with Notre Dame 
officials" 
He added, "This years crowd of 
males was extreme!y wep man· 
nered. It was a good panty ra.,\d as 
far as 1 security." 
Kovatch said that last years raid 
was "much more malicious. Some 
dorm rooms were broken into and 
stereos were damaged. This year 
when we caught the males in the 
dorms they left peaceably," he 
said. 

Huber concurred, "We expected 
a lot worse and it really wasn't all 
that bad. So far no disciplinary 
action has been planned.'' 

Grad women adjust to Badin 
by Barbara Breitenstein Staff Reporter 

Despite the small rooms, limited space, and constant threat of cockroaches, the Notre Dame graduate women are "making do" in Badin Hall. 
The relatively small size of the rooms seem to be the major area of difficulty in adjusting to the new residence hall. Even though new shelves were put up and desks were brought over from Lewis during the summer, lack of ster• space in the rooms has causettdile grads oo pack away or seU ~ ef their books, er to meve them· te a lihrary carrell where they plan en doing most of thei.r work. 
"I had to move the desk out of 
my room,'' remarked Jane 
Jtobinett, who had lived in Lewis 
for two years prior to the move to 
Badin. As a result, she is only able 
to do her reading work in her room. 
The lack of kitchen space is also a problem to those girls who cook their own meals. 'iThe kitchens are 
too small," Linda Olivieri, a second-year law student who does 50 per cent of her own cooking, complained. Other girls added that the water in the dorm is "bad for cooking." 
With the number of girls who are 
cooking in the old building,  the  
number  of  cockroaches  is  in­ 
creasing.  This  is  one  of  the  

strongest complaints the Badin women have expressed. 
The noise of being near to un­dergraduate dorms, the diffi~ulty of en'terteialng peeple in the limi~ space avalable ·&n-1MB pur.pose and the anticipatiOA of yet another move to new gradwMe townbeuses next fall are alse "irrittating" to the girls. 
"I understand that it was nesessary to make room," com· mented Mary Beth Dakoske, who also lived in Lewis last year, "but I dread the idea of moving again." 
But not all the girls are com­plaining. "The convenience outweighs any of those other things," offered Mary Conklin, a first-year student here. "I'm just thankful I'm on campus." Mary went on to say that she really doesn't care about the problems other women in Badin are com­plaining about. This seems to be "pretty much the sentiment of all the new girls." 
"Location-wise it's good," Debbie Basile, also a first-year grad here, noted. "It's close to the classroom buildings." The baD's proximity to the b,OO~tore is alsp a peint maclf.fin its' favor. · 
'Fhe .-..areatBf a~ 
te tbe r-Go11 ~· "~1~ ·~ tleea very·~ti-le in dealiq Witll 
the space pl!GWem," Sue·­
commented, "and they redid the showers and bathrooms. •• She did complain about rnucb of what the other girls had, but stressed that it is the people that make the place. 
''Generally, most are resigned to it," Dakoske concluded. As one Badin resident said, "We're all making do, 'cause, after all, we have to." 
MoreauGalleriesopentomorrow 
The Moreau Art Galleries at St. Mary's College will open their 1975­76 season on Saturday, September 13, with three exhibits--'Hot Times: 
Five on Fire'· 'Redbud Redux ·' and a show by' carol Carter. Ah three exhibits will be on display through October 13. 
'Hot Times: Five on Fire' is an 
Student Assembly1:rimes: Five on Fire' is supported Prints by Carol Carter, a m part by grants from the National member of the St. Mary's College nominatiOns nOW En~owment for ~e.~ and the faculty, will be on display in the 
• t d

beJng aCCep e 
Nominations open today for the positions of :Student Assembly representatives from Regina andl McCandless Halls. Ap­plications will be accepted until Wednesday, Sept. .17 at 8 a.m., announced Election Commissioner Kathy Carrigan. 
Three positions are currently open in both Rwegina andd McCandless. 
All platforms must be submitted on an Blh by ll inch sheet of paper to Carrigan in room 415 Le Mans Hall at the time of application. 
Elections for the posts is slated for Monday, September 22, from! 10 
a.m. to 6 p.m. in the two halls. 
No previous student government experience is necessary. All reps elected, however, must attend the 
bi-weekly  Student  Assembly  
meetings.  
Further  questions  concf"rning  

election qualifications or cam­.paian .rulf-. may. be di.r«ted" to Carrigan at 4721. 
invitational ceramics show and discussion. Outstanding potters from five states will display their works in the exhibit. 
The show opens in the Moreau Gallery, located beneath the O'Laughlin Apditorium foyer, with a reception and discussion of the works from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday, September 113. 'Hot produced by the participants in the first Freshair Art Workshops. The workshop was sponsored by the St. Mary's Art Department in May 1975 on the banks of the :3t. Joseph River at Redbud Trail retreat in Buchanan, Michigan. Thi.s display will be in the' Hammes Gallery, located outside the Little Theatre in Moreau Hall. 
Ind1ana Arts CommlSSlon. Little Theatre Gallery. 'Redbud· Redux' feat~ works All three galleries are o~ daily r-.._.,....~~---""'!l!~-f·ro·m·l-2.;noo~n_;un::,:;til~S~ .......,..
p,:illmij. 

.·PAir'".Y • FRE.E 
TONiGHT ·FRIDAY SEPT. 12 
,. 

Brought·to yo.u by LeMons, Morrissey, ~pnd .St. Ed's Halls 
Band (lind Refreshments ' Outdoor party in front of leMons ·Hall -COURTYARD 
, All NO & SMC Students Welcome 
RAIN? 
~~~cheduled for Sept. 13 at 9pm Positions Avallabh~ 
Untverslty Judicial tsoard University Appeals Board 


Call 7668 for ·Interview ntment 
p-he WinJjammer proudly announces 
HAIR DEIIGN FOR THE SEXEI 


CUTATHON 


,; 


~~. 

,f)ev.lop­
..rnentol 
· Disabilities 
Center 
formerly 
The Northern lndlano 
Children's Hospital •.• 
SO HELP CHARITY AND GET A GREAT LOOKING HAIRCUT AT THE SAMC TIME 
•FREE HAIR ANALYSIS o FULL SERVICE FOR MEN 11o WOMEN 
•FREE GIFTS o FREE REFRESHMENTS o LADIES INVITED 1637 Lincoln Wfll( Wftt -appointmentllf desired, phone 232.e822 

8a.m. Sat. Sept. 20th to 8a.m. Sun. Sept. 21st 

~ Pu..rdu.e., it'~ ---­
: 





LEETWQQD 

AND 
AMBROSIA 

SATUBDAt SIPT. 20, 1875 
ILLIDTT BALL OF MUSIC 
$5, $4 & $3·ST4RTS 8PM ticket salas bagia sapt. 11 
and 24hour 0 
·A Cutoflton fa a tltlngatlton where 
The ~even expert styUIU at TM WlndJimmet will cut hair for 24 houn ttr•tgl't1111 
ALL PROCEEDS DONATED TO CHARITY 






The Observer 
an ,independent student MWspoper 
Founded Novem~r 3, 1966 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Manager 

EDITORIAL BOARD . AI. Rutherford, Managing Editor; Fred Graver, Executive Editor; Jim Eder, Edito'rial Editor KPn Girouard. News Editor; Pat :-ianifin, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor KPn Hradlord, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; TomO'NeiL Features Editor Lhris Smith. Photo Editor 
Editori~ls: 181-1661 . Nrws: 1::,:81:;,:·1~7:..;:15:__....__ __;B::,:u:.:;•i;.:;nr;,;••:;_=.:;:28::;:1.:.;,-1.:.;47:..:,1_______._-l 
Friday, September 12, 1t75 

Cash on the Line 
The closing of Gilbert's Campus Store But the University would be wise to leaves a void that must be filled. For offer a chick cashing service for student 
years, Gilbert's has cashed student paychecks. The service could limit thechecks. They were open at more con­amount of the check for example at $50
venient hours than the University 
and prevent most full-time UniversityCashier's Office and cashed student 
University payroll checks which the employees from using the service. Also it Cashier did not. could and should set aside only a limited With Gilbert's closed, the ap­amount of money for cashing student 
proximately 1000 students who work on University payroll checks, just as 
campus and receive University payroll Gilbert's did. Finally, the Universitychecks have no place on campus to cash may also have the option of allowing atheir checks. Many may be forced to 
open a local bank account and make what bank on campus, which is permitted at 
may be an inconvenient trip downtown to other campuses, to provide such a ser­
cash a check each week. vice.
The Cashier's Office, which cashes Whether and where a student cashes
personal checks for students, claims that his University payroll check is not
tt cannot handle the volume of checks if it exactly a burning issue on this campus.
were to cash student pay checks. To open But bf. proviamg a substitute for 
up that office to University payroll Gilbert s check cashing service, thechecks would be to make a commitment University could take advantage of an 
to cash checks for all University em­opportunity to make the life of theployees. · students a little more convenient. 

I 
•.f : 

stay in our own rooms with our then quoted, "The students should doors locked. If a girl wants to be be evaluated before, during, and 


foolish by putting herself into a after the experiment." position that she will be hurt, it is IfI haven't missed the drift of his her own fault. statement, then I understand that
Raids some type of screening process 
We can't be baby-sat until we're will be instituted in order to select 
thirty. Warn us fine, we un­only very mature students for 
derstand that's your job, but participation in this co-ed housing 
Panty 
Dear Editor: please don't stop one of the best trial. 

I am writing this letter con­times of the fall. We like to be I resent the implication that cerning Wednesday evening's treated like twenty-year-olds, not there are students here incapable panty-raid. It is directed to the twelve. And we believe our actions of handling this small step towards new LeMans hall directors and were "pf normal college students. co-ed housing. First, it is only very concerned security. limited co-ed housing involving 
Name witheld upon request two dorms attached by a few 
People who haye never attended common ground floor rooms. SMC or N.D. do not know what it is Second, I defy anyone to come up like to be a part of our panty-raids. with appropriate "criteria." Does They have been part of our Co-ed it involve an interview by a Board tradition for years. Why can't of Morals? Or psychological people understand that we, • the profiling? Perhaps there would be girls in the dorms, are not goinJ to a Co-ed Dorm Admission Test let 500 scre~ming N.D. men mto Criteria <CDAT)? our rooms. We were causing no If this proposal is enacted, there harm, we 'were hurting no one. could be a great demand for ac­Why must we get hastled so? Dear Editqr: commodations in the twin dorms 
We realize tnere was some and the present residents should property damage done. But We can expect a great deal of be given pr~ference in housing weren't there damages done ten discussion re: co-ed housing in the relocation. But except for that and and twenty years ago? We believe coming days as the COUL's logistical considerations, housing the presence of so many in­Stanford-Keenan proposal is · a in Stanford-Keenan ought to be terfering security and hall viable plaQ. In The Observer of open to all in a chance lottery. We authorities provokes more trouble. Wed.' Sept. 10, the statement that are all ma~ure men and women. 
Also, we understand that these some c~iteria should be set up to And after all, this is no Harrad people are concerned for the girls' determme which students should Experiment. welfare. Well, we were warned participate in the experiment is <demanded would you believe?) to attributed to Fr. McNally. He is Jim Romanelli 
critical chalc:e -------· 
Working ---------· kit baran 

.. "Ought not there be an Increment, earned though not yet received, from one's daily work-an acknowledgement of man's being?" Studs Terkel 
"That's the whole problem here, we ain't treated like human bein's," resentfully lectured the middle-aged black woman laborere at me as we remained confined in the steel mill's small hospital waiting room waiting for the thunderous rain to subside. 
"I gotta clean up all the muck, sweep the whole damn steel yard! My foreman keeps hollerin' at me to break my back workin' so hard," she conti~ued. "I hate him and this whole shittin' \place." 
Meantime, an orange unit with yellow flasher whistles by. A grinding noise--followed by full vision of a blackened yellow pipe carrier appears: like a berserk monster it just barely misses colliding into a green car which emerged from behind it. Only to gohome is to relieve one from the harsh screaming cranes, clanging pipes, filth and unhappiness that consumes many a laborer's heart with an uncouth fungus-a fungus that poisons a man's perception of freedom as it infects his whole lifestyle. 
Work, once the curse of early civilization's angry gods, seems to be failing man. The work ethic is no longer a part of the automated pace of the jobs that wipe out home, face, and feeling. To satisfy man, "work" must make him feel effective so that consciously and unconsciously, he constantly asks himself how he plans to make his strength count for the most. Ideally, the reward of work is not mere selfish gain; not getting money for the sake of money or to lord over everyone luxuriously in a state of fame. Instead we work to survive, to help those we love and to contribute to humanity. It's that simple. We use the skills we have to return to the rest of mankind something of what past generations have given us. But most of us don't sue our innate skills and professions as we shift through a multiplicity of pursuits. Too often we fit the description Kurt Vonnegut depicts: man as the working machine. With his humanity detached the innate values he attaches to his resources are amputated. 
It's ironic how in our technological utopia, we lose sight of the intrinsic value of what we do. We see only the complex surface of urban-industrial reality. Humaneness is disturbed by burdening itself with the new mechanical roles of playing robot, work mule, etc. 
The problem of work not fulfilling human needs is evidenced by the words and actions of the steel laborer quoted above. After a thorough discussion with her, it became obvious that sheer application of resolute and persevering work was not a part of her life. By complaining she wasn't treated like a human being she stated more than "I am being mistreated on the job." In reality she totally rejected assuming the total responsibility designated by her job description; then, she proceeded to blame management for her lack of motivation to perform the tasks she agreed to do when originally hired. 
. I argue that work is being interpreted and applied in a way that is ruining our culture. For one who believes that things don't turn up in this world until somebody turns them up, work can never be an empty alienating experience. To achieve satisfaction out of what we do does not mean we are obliged to slide back into the work ethic which marked a time of our history in which a man's job was his ultimate, the gratifying extension of himself. What we do need to achieve is a willingness to create a meaningful continuity within our lives between the work we do outside of the job and inside the job.
Blaming an abstract institution for its failings is senseless. Work is not failing man as much as man is neglecting to see himself as useful. When 
H. More says that people who live only to amuse themselves work harder at the task than most people do in earning their daily bread, he infers a self-motivating active process which enacts the way he chooses to live: To be industrious in any work situation requires the same use of energy. Whose payroll we're on at any time-whether for a summer job or for life-is insignificant. 
What is significant is the fact that we are always working for our­selves ... so why not stay 'human' and insist upon getting the joy that can only be derived from hard work. Otherwise, it may never be found. 
the observer 
Night Editor:  Dan Sanchez  Features:  Val Zurblls  
Asst. Night Editor:  Mary Janca Sports:  Bill  Brink,  Tom  
Layout  Staff:  Larry  Carcave,  Kruczek  

Anne Reilly, Jim Stevens Typists: Mel Celeste, T. Clemens, Day Editor: Maureen Flynn, H. Halle, Candy F. Mary Egan Compugraphic: C. Spina Copy Reader: Fred Herbst Night Controller: Martha Fanning Editorials: John E.O. Ad Layout: "PAT" 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 



Friday, September .ta, 1975 the observer 
7 

Letters to a Lonely God 
•

a matter of different testaments 
reverend robert griffin 
One of the most obvious truths in a 
meditation on the Passion, it seems to me, is 
that God's true gentleness and kindness 
toward men were revealed in a scene 
horrid with the violence of nails ripping 
through human flesh under the blows of an 
executioner's hammer. The God who, 
through floods and earthquakes, tempests 
and thunder, can take our world apart and 
put it together again, used neither lightning 
nor the collision of the morning stars to 
compel our faith; even He could not bully us 
into love. Only His helplessness as a servant 
emptied of His godhead could show us how 
costly love can be when a man lays down his 
life for his friends. 
"Come in thy lowest form of love, and I will kneel and and kiss thee," said Captain Ahab in Moby Dick; "but at thy highest, come as mere supernal power; and though tbou launchest navies of full-freighted worlds, there's that in here that still ·emains indifferent." 
So God, Who could create the land mass of North and South America in a morning, with Africa and Australia whipped into shape by tea time, and the rest of the continents done in time for dinner, adding the Alps and Rockies as footnotes to His work and throwing in furry things for delight of it; God, Who in the weariness of evening dreamed of tomorrow when He would plant the vineyards and the wheat fields, and remembered yesterday when He had decided on the stars and moon; such a God, in love with the whimsical shapes of shells and fins that could scuttle as lobsters or swim in the ebbtide ... this resourceful and 
highly competent deity knew it was neither through His genius as an artist, nor through the cleverness of the hands that could shape all mankind out of dust, that He could charm ingrates into a worship by which, for love of Him they would lay down their lives for one another. He could tell His creatures, in the poetry of Genesis and the conundrums of Job, how good and great the Creator is; but the eloquence that won them for heaven began with an absolution from the Cross: "Father, forgive them; they know not what 
they do." 
There used to be a couple of old gentlemen who hung out at night in the Times Square section of New York City. One was Jewish chap named Long who practiced agnosticism, if it is permissible to speak of doubt as though it had a creed. The other was a toothless Irishman named Ryan. He was a',Catholic.and a defender o~theFaith as faith was understood and ritualised in the Catholic ghettos of Hell's Kitchen. Each night in Times Square, ~t tbe foot! of Father Duffy's statue, the Jew and the Irishman would argue about politics and God, each of 
them cont~nding, it seems, to win points from the hstening crowd. 
and if the dying have walked awayfrom their death beds. Let him say whether he has seen that happen at Lourdes." 
"One new set of teeth, Mr. Ryan. That's all it would take to convince a godless Jew like me to light candles and burn incense in praise of all that damned nonsense you call religion and miracles in that insane asylum called Lourdes." 
So the two of them would rage at each other far into the hours after midnight, 
Mr. Ryan, for example, would argue in wh~n there sere only winos and harlots left defense of miracles. "There are autben-to hsten. You ~new they must hate ea~h tic a ted miracles at Lourdes," he would say, other fro':l the1r anger, ~nd from the~r "that have been certified by whole staffs of personal msults and slurrmg. Long sa~d doctors. The blind have seen; the lame have that Ryan was a fO?l and a bore. R;yan sa1d walked; the dumb have left there shouting that Long was a d1~grace t~ Juda!s~, and praises. Alexis Carrel, the Nobel prize that ~e would certamly go, 1f he d1dn t.end winner was converted to the Catholic faith up bemg converted to Jesus as he lay dymg. after w'itnessing the miracles at Lourdes.': lLong said no thank you, be didn't want any 
Mr. Long would stand there twisting his piece of Ryan's heaven,. if there was. a mouth into grimaces of idoubt: "Was it ever heaven for assholes, whic.h he, Long, s~n­heard of that anyone like a soldier, who had cerely doubted. . Ryan sa1d that agnostics lost a leg in the war, could go to that silly always talk~ hke that; but they sure shrine and pray, and get a new leg as an c~anged their tune when the time came to answer to .His prayers? Could someone,go;to d1e, and they end~ up howling and 
Lourdes and get a new arm?" 

He would fix a glittering eye on Mr. Ryan. "Mr. Ryan could you go to Lourdes and pray and get a new set \of teeth for your trouble? Could you do that, Mr. Ryan? Has anyone in the history of the world gotten a new set of teeth as a miracle from that God of yours? Why don't you go to Lourdes, Mr. Ryan, and ask for a new set of teeth~And if you ~et them, 1 will go there and 
pray with you. · -But you can't get new teeth at Lordes Mr. Ryan· and you 
screa~ing .for Jesus mercy. Then, said Ryan, 1t m1ght be too late, for Long would have wasted all his chances. 
After a while, I began to sense there was somethi~g very interesting about these two men.. F1~st, I .heard that they had been argumg hke thiS for over twenty years, and that .they telephon~ each other every mormng. Then I not1~ed that there ~ere rules to the debate wh1ch each man abided 
by.~ . , Damn 1t Ryan, Mr. Longwould roar, 
can't get a new arm o;•new leg.~ you know "you've had your turn. Now shut up and 
why, Mr. Ryan? Because there are no listen and don't interrupt me.'' 
miracles at Lourdes No miracles at all: Or Ryan would say to a bystander who 
neither arms no leg~ nor teeth. There are tried to accuse.or ~efend him: "Young man, 
only neurotic , people at Lourdes, led by keep out of th1s; ,If you want to argue, go 
neurotic and superstitious priests. There some nl~ce else. 
are no cures at Lourdes; only imaginary The truth of the matter was, I think, that cures of ignorant peasants suffering from these two old men who argued were friends imaginary illnesses.'' who needed each other very much. Their Mr. Ryan would quiver with toothless argument was the chief thing'they',had to rage. "There are doctors there, all kinds of in a day. It probably kept them in existence. doctors --Protestant doctors, Jewish doc-Without the other, each would have, tors, Catholic doctors, godless doctors -who perhaps, long since tottered off to a lonely examine the sicklandtake down their cases. grave, under the turf that covers the Let them say if there are miracles at Christian and agnostic alike. On many an Lourdes. Let Dr. Alexis Carrel, who won the evening, I suspect, they came to the Duffy Nobel prize, say if paralytics have danced statuewhen age or weariness or illness, if 
catered to, would have confined them to a dingy room in a shabby hotel. Ryan without Long was a lonely blatherskite; Long without Ryan was a demagogue without a crowd. Other opponents neither interested nor excited them. To be at their sharpest ­and their sharpest was hardly brilliant ­each needed the other as a foil. Moreover, each knew he was needed\by \the other. So each man would drag himself out in the heat of a summer night, or on evenings when the rain could have drowned them. Neither wanted the other to be alone with a rhetoric that had no place to go. 
Mr. Ryan and Mr. Long: old men reaching out to each other, but you couldn't understand that if you listened only to their abusiveness. There was nothing impressive about their arguments, though they obviously studied their ground of at­tack, coming into the fray armed to the teeth (in Mr. Ryan's case, the gums) with books and newspapers. Scholarship, or its shadow or parody, is not needed in the night shadows of a great city, but love is needed. When you understood that under the ap­pearancesof hate, Mr. Long and Mr. Ryan 
really loved each other, they seemed like 
heroes ten feet tall, amidst all the in­
difference in a New York crowd. 
The God of creation, men on street cor­
ners: they may merely turn you off when 
they're trying to be impressive (though I 
wouldn't have you think I don't admire the 
cosmos.). Mr. Long and Mr. Ryan: a 
toothless mick and an agnostic Jew who, 
under all their scrappiness, were two lonely 
men crucified on the cross of age. Logic and 
syllogisms they thought, were their gift to 
the. s1aewalk. But if they could have con­
tributed a world filled with the dazzle, flash, 
wink, gurgle, or mere cuddly cuteness of the 
buggy things of the fields and woods, the old 
gents wouldn't be, for me at least, nearly so 
unforgettable. To be simply human in all the 
needing, caring ways is to be unforgettable. 
God could have told them that; it is the 
reason for the necessity of in­
carnations.That is why the unforgettable 
distance between the beginning of Genesis 
and the ending of the Gospels is a matter of 
different testaments. And in all stories that 
really touch us, there must always be somewhere a hero who suffers.l'm not sure it would be easy to like any hero who has to win all the battles all the time. 

chileans ' no longer sing nor laugh' 
rev. martin garate 

On September 4, 1970, the Chilean people elected a new government. They elected the government because its program responded to the most fundamental needs of the majority of the people. Its program proposed more equal distribution of the goods of the country. From 1970-73, Chile had an intense experience which is hard to put into words. It involved everyone and its effects reached every nook and crany of the poeple's lives. It was as penetrating as the irritating cry of a baby who won't let you sleep. They were the best times that the people had ever experienced. The selfishness and egotism were replaced by generosity and the country shared its wealth. The people felt that the government was truly theirs. For the first time in history, they felt the freedom to participate in, voice their opinion and criticize everything that touched their life. The poetry, the music and the theater all nourished and enriched the masses. They no longer only sought material wealth but began to realize the beauty of con­templating life because they no longer had to think only of survival. But this life, this story of hope and progress was brutally ended and a new history began. This new history is one of repression, death, torture, starvation and exile. On the 11th of Sep­tember of 1973, thousands of Chileans died, assasinated for having dared to make Chile a country of brothers and sisters. The assasinations and imprisonments that began that day have continued and now 
number well into the thousands. The 
Chilean government admits that it has 
arrested one·oUt~f-every ·250 persons but 
the Church figures show that one out~f­
every 100 have been detained. Since then, 
prison has stolen freedom from many 
ChiiP.ans while death has stolen life from 
others but more than these, torture has stolen both physical and mental sanity from thousands. The sadism has reached in­credible proportions. Children have been tortured in front of their parents, wives have been tortured in front of their husbands and vice versa. 
The people no longer sing nor laugh. They no longer read poetry or participate in theatre. Even the Mass is no longer a happy celebration. Today the only thing that the people have time to think about is surviving and often this is impossible. 
The Chilean junta's economic policy has 
meant genocide for thousands of Chileans. 
The Chilean newspapers published reports of articles that supposedly appeared in Argentine and Brazilian newspapers which revealed that 119 Chileans had been killed outside of Chile. Writs of habeas corpus had already been presented by the Committee for Peace (an organization founded by the Churches in Chile that helps the political prisoners and their families) for almost all of the names which appeared in the list of 
119. Investigations proved that the Argentine and Brazilian newspapers which were quoted did not even exist. But where are these 119 people? 
The tortures to which most of the 
Over 25 per cent of the work force are out of prisoners are subjected are so macabre that jobs. Others who are\employed are forced to they are hard to imagine. Every type of take 2 month vacations without pay. Since sexual abuse is employed (this is always September of 1973 the Chil~an has lost 50 per worse for the women). Electric shock is cent of his buying power. A cup of tea and a applied to all parts of the body especially piece of bread is all that the poor can afford the most r;ensitive areas. Prisoners are to eat. More than 50 per cent of the children constantly branded, beat and submerged suffer from malnutrition. The effects of this into pools of water or excrement. They cut malnutrition may not be so evident now but the hands off of one musician so that he it means that an entire generation 'of couldn't play the guitar. They later shot 
Chileans will grow up mentally retarded. Under the present economic situation many youngsters can not afford to go to school, Before this Chile had one of the highest literacy rates in Latin America. 
Besides the1economicrepression the Chile an people are also being submitted to a social repression. Arbitrary arrests and imprisonments continue. According to Church figures, there are still at least 6,000 political prisoners in Chile. Many of these prisoners have never had any charges brought against them. Other people have just disappeared without leaving any traces. 
Recently the military junta tried to exonerate themselves from the guilt of 119 assasinations which they had committed. 
him. 

Not even the Church has escaped repression . .In just a few months time, the Catholic Church lost 150 priests. Many were expelled, others invited to leave, some were killed and others have been arrested and subjected to torture. Three have died from the torture. After two years, you would think the repression would have lessened some but it continues as strong as ever. Just a couple of months ago three priests were arrested. at their pastoral meetings. This repression makes it difficult to spread the "Good News", but the Church continues doing all that it can to help the people. 
"Popular Dining Rooms" have been created by the parishes to help combat the starvation. The members of the parish all work together to prepare one or two meals a day for the children. Because these are the people who are hardest hit by the repression they must seek outside aid in order to finance these dining rooms. Some food is donated by local stores but it is very little. The rest of the necessities must be financed from other sources. The meals that are served there are usually the only nourish­ment that the children receive. 
The Church has also helped to organize workshops_ in order to provide more work opportunities. Besides providing em­ployment often these workshops also offer opportunities to learn skills and trades. This fulfills a very great need in the Chilean people because schooling has become so expensive that it is available only to the very rich. This program must expand to even begin to help the employment con­ditions 6ecause these workshops usually only have facilities to employ about 25 people. 
The Church has also begun unem­
ployment centers where those who are 
unemployed can go to get information about 
job opportunities and also gather strength 
from the ¥~Olidaritywith others who can not 
find work. The centers serve as meetir.q 
places for the unemployed to come togeth(. · 
and share their experiences, frustration 
and dreams. These centers are very im­
portant in a country with such a higl: 
unemployment rate. 
But to continue all of these pro,., .:.us w.~ 
Church in Chile needs outside ;upport 11r J 
encouragement. Just as ~-.,. _: 
depended upon one another for supp--•r · in 
the spreading of Christ's teachings, 'Ill' 
brothers and sisters in Chile depenr u -on 
their solidarity with Christians thro •Ut 
the world. Please joia in this solidarity of 
Christians. 


the 0 bse rv e_!,.r___---=..F.:..:rl~d~ay~,...J!-~-o:::"
~m=beBI=:=I,,_l=·=· 

lfREE'.MOViE''S'HORT,.
'JJonations at ND infirmary 
d d : MARX BROS., :
Blood bank volunteers nee e : ABBOT & COSTELLO,: 
by Patti Ruocco Staff Reporter 

Recruitment for this year's blood bank will be starting on Activities Night, Tuesday, Sep­tember 16. SMC chairman for the 
"drive Colleen O'Rourke, stresaed that "for the bank to be a success, students must be willing to work on it, as well as give blood," , 
Several new innovations have been made concerning the blood program; one of the main changes is the location of the bank site. 
In former years donors went to the blood bank downtown, which according to O'Rourke invovled a lot of transportation problems. For the first time, a permanent bank is to be located at the Notre 
Dame infirmary. There will also be a difference in the recruiting process. 
Heading the program are O'Rourke for Saint Mary1a and Dave Clarke for Notre Dame. There will be two sub-heads for the bank; Charlie Lucier is in charge of the North Quad and a person yet to be named will take charge of the. South Quad. These people will work with representatives from each of the halls. Sign-up for donors and wokrers will continue at the dining halls until October 14th. Hall Representatives will schedule 25 donors a day. 
The blood bank will be open three days a week; Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. With one dorm donating blood daily, O'Rourke expects each hall to give to the blood bank once each semester. In this wfiy, the blood bank will receive 75 pints a week if it operates at capacity. 

People who have low blood pressur~. are taking antibiotics, have infectious diseases such as hepatitis or mononucleosis, or have consumed alcohol within 48 hours of donation are unacceptable as donors. 
Benefits include coverage by the blood bank for your family for a year and lifetime coverage for the donor. 
O'Rourke said, "You benefit 
yourselves, and other benefit even 
greater." 
Students wishing additional 
information can contact Colleen 
O"rourke at 5407 or Dave Clarke at 
1556. 
Ford said to wear bullet-proof vest since shooting attempt last week 
By CARL P. LEUBSDORF 
AP Political Writer 

MILFORD, N.H. (AP) ­President Ford, on his first po­litical outing since last week's assassination attempt, ap­peared to be wearing a protec­tive vest Thursday while cam­paigning in New Hampshire. 
The President was greeted by friendly crowds as he sought to boost Republican Louis C. Wy­man's chances in next Tues­day's special Senate election. 
Secr.et Service agents and White House officials refused to COAfirm ·Or deay that For.d was wearin8 a pro~liive vest. Btlt the oudtues of some sert ef ad­ditional garment were vi&ible through tbe bact his jacket,
ofaad his sbirt-fl'ont appeared ti:ghUy drawn. 
Photographs of the President leaving the White House in the morning showed Ford wearing a suit vest with his brown busi­ness suit. But when he arrived in New Hampshire he was wearing what apparently was the same suit without the suit vest. 
The day-long motorcade showed that the President had lost none of his zest for shaking hands and reaching out to the thousands who greeted him at more than a dozen stops in towns and highway crossings. 
Republicans hoJM!!i the Presi­dent's visit would boost the turnout next·~ and over­come the extensive organ­lzatiena1 efl.ort &y the Demo­cratic candicblte, Jolm Durkin. 
The Senate declared the seat vacant and ordered a new elec-

Committee criticizes sale of basketball tickets 
(Continued from page 1) 

The Finance Committee criticized university officials for their handling of the price increase for basketball tickets. 
While admitting that increased costs in the Athletic Department require increased costs in the 
season I ticket prices, the 
committee report said, "The 
University did little to adequately 
explain or justify the increase to 
the students." 

Last spring, .. ~be Athlet\c 
Department annuunced that 
basketball season tickets would 
cost $28 for cushion seats and $21 
for bleacher seats. After a student 
protest campaign was launched, a 
compromise price of $22 for 
cushion seats and $18 for bleacher 
seats was announced. 

"A lot of it was just a com­
munications problem," Merten 
said. "If the situation is explained 
to them, students, like anyone else, 
are usually pretty rational about 
it." 

The committee that, the administration institute a gradual system of price increases to cover increased costs instead of sudden larger hikes in the future. 
In assessing the club sports at Notre Dame, the committee ad­vised the sports department and the University as a whole to provide a greater share of funds for club sports. 
Dominick Napolitano, director of nonvarsity sports, gave the committee a brief history of the roleof.club sports at Notre Dame. Napolitano told the committee the club sport program is much more extensive at Notre Dame than at other schools.i 
The committee suggested that the Un~versity give each club sport a .millimwnUQf $750 annually and provide a "matching funds" 



IT'S HERE! 
WITH THE STUDENT IN MIND 
LITERS OF BEER AND CENTIMETERS OF PIZZA 
THE BACK DOOR 
.CO~NER. OF. .EDLSON .~-ND:JRO·NWOO.D.. 
tion after it was unable to de­cide on a winner in last Novem­ber's close election. 
Gov. Meldrim Thomson, a conservative who supports Ron­ald Reagan for the presidency, joined the motorcade after Ford made a luncheon stop. 
At most of the stops, hands in the crowd reached out to touch and shake hands with Ford. 
The Secret Service agents' cordon around the President appeared to be about the same as before last Friday's incident in sacramento, Calif., where a follower of convicted murderer Charles Manson pOinted a pistol at the President before being gr-HGect b.y agent$. 
A security helicopter new over part of the President's 120­mile route. 
It was l~rned that a Secret Service agent and a state police detective "had been assigned to keep an eye on Linda Kasa­bian, another Manson follower, who now lives eight miles from Milford. 
IF YOU .WANT THE BEST : SPAGHETTI, PIZZA or SANDWICHES, THEN WHY NOT 
GET IT? YOU CAN AT: 
GIUSEPPE'S 713 E. LASALLE so: BEND 
PRIVATE PARTY "..........,..... CARRY OUTS 233·0951 

: W .C. FIELDS, ~ l AND LAUREL & HARDY : taRING A BLANKET AND WHATEVER ELSE~ 
YOU NEED TO KEEP WARM : 

WILL BE SOLD * 
OUTDOORS AT DILLON HALL 
COURTYARD *

! FACING THE SOUTH DINING HALL : 
~.............1~\•JJUaa...........* 

GOOD THING GOES ON! A very informal gathering of good people at the Campus Ministry Activities Center, the little green house -corner of Bulla Rd. and Juniper (across from Grace Tower). 
Everyone welcome -Mass at 5:15 followed supper -Today and 
matching funds system would be to 

~~.~~of~r~~~~~~~~==~~~=~llij~;J;~~---·==··lr
provide club sports with incentives to raise more money themselves. 
Members of the committee were Merten, Professor Robert Williamson, Tom Fitzgerald, Frank Flanagan and Fr. David 


You'll be PLEASED! 

1st ANNUAL BACKPACKING SALE on 
BACKPACKS DAY PACKS COOKWARE NYLON TENTS DOWN BAGS DOWN PARKA 
~·xi':t' EHoa·s.Atuab..y...·........ '6P'EN fo"Cim "-·9 ""....... .. ·...... . 

Friday, September 12, 1975 the observer 
'Hotline' volunteers to be sought 

•y Cathy Nolan Staff Reporter Hot Line, a 24 hour crisis in­tervention service, will be recruiting volunteers from the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's com­munity on Activities Night, Sep­tember 16, from 7:00 tilllO:OO p.m. in the Fafortooe Student Center. 
In order to work for the Hot Line phone service, the recruits must attend a six week training session. The recruits will meet one night a week for two and a half hours. The volunteer staff is trained by professional counselors and psycologists from the St. Joseph's community. The purpose of the training program is to build up the volunteer's listening and in­terviewing skills and to teach the recruits to differentiate between fl crisis and an emergency. Also required of the volunteers are two 
SMC InPIRG drive begins on Tuesday 
by Marjorie A. lrr Staff Reporter 

St. Mary's InPIRG membership drive will begin this Tuesday at Activities Night in LaFortune. 
Debbie Hale, InPIRG organizational charman at SMC, said the drive will continue through the week. It will conclude with an organizational meeting on Sept. 22 from 8-10 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. This meeting will featur~ speakers from ~~ state orgamzatlon. ·,,, 
Other means to inform new students on the workings of InPIRG include question and answer sessions at section meetings and publicity handouts. 
A statewide InPIRG meeting will be held on Sudday, Sept. 21, 12 
p.m. at the new state office located at 925 20th Street in South Bend. Everyone is welcome and invited to participate, added Hale. 
Cathy Nolan, organizational treasurer, explained what students should do if they do not wish to support InPIRG. "Everyone was billed the $3.00 InPIRG fee. It was included in the student govern­ment fee. If anyone doesn't want to support InPIRG, they should go to the business office for student accounts by Friday, Sept. 12 for their refund," she stated. 
Regarding cooperation between St. Mary's IlnPIRG and those of ND and IUSB, Hale commented, "We are really interested in area cooperative projects, but we still want to be autonomous enough to work by ourselves. Last spring, during the support drive, we told the students that InPIRG would work for them. We do need a good strong group of our own." 
Projects that SMC InPIRG will be working on this year include a recycling center for the college, an consumer handbook and an area day car study. 
mterviews with the staff heads. entire St. Joseph's area. It was 
Once the training program has established five years ago, through been completed, the directors will the funding of United Way. Its make a final decision as to whether original purpose was to serve in or not the recruit is capable of connection with drug abuse. hancHingrthe phone calls. Mter the Today, the organization acts training program has ended, the mainly as alistening operation. staffmeets once a month to update 
·The Hot Line receives ap­the techniques used to handle the proximately 600 calls a month.
various situations. These learning The subject matter of the con­sessions are directed by trained versations include child abuse,professionals from the South Bend suicide, pregnancy, alcoholism,area and surrounding com· drug abuse, or depression causedmunities. 
by lonliness .. According to HotThe volunteers work closely with Line Director Molly Reed, thehospitals and other rescue staffs. 
callers range in age fromEach volunteer works one four elementary school children tohour shift a week. Presently, Hot senior citizens. 'It is not a coun­Line is staffed by severalNotre seling service,' stated Reed. 'WeDame and St. Mary's students, as are there to listen and to providewell as members of thee South moral support. We do not tellBend Community. 
people how to solve their problems. 
HOT is a referral service for the 

Communication 

1 believe communication bet· ween patron and hairstylist Is the key to patron satisfaction. 
Although you may not have a particular hairstyle In mind, it is important that you tell the stylist a little about yourself to insure the rlght type of style. 
A swinging, easy to care for Blow Dry haircut will delight a woman who enjoys a sporty, casual lifestyle. That same hairstyle would spell disaster to the sophisticated woman. 
At VIvian's, the stylists are taught to communicate . to ask about your likes and disliked and then explain what they have in mind for you and make sure It meets with your approval before they begin. 
Let's communicate-for joy and 
satisfaction between patron and 
hairstylist. 
Sponsored by 
~VIVIAN's 
'HAIR DESIGN 
I ......OJ•• 

We give them the support and 
If y:ou want a beautiful carpet for your room, Sandock's Carpet-Way is the place to go! Choose from hundreds of gorgeous carpets... every color, every size, and every style imaginable... all first quality famous brands... 
strength to help them make their ticular problem. Reed also stated own decsions. Our main purpose is that aU volunteers are bound by to help people help themselves.' strict confidentiality. The names 
. Reed emphasized that the Hot of those people who call in are not Line is not a counseling service but revealed nor are the names of the rather a referral service. When a volunteers. person calls in with a specific The Hot Line is a twenty four problem, he is given the name and hour service, available seven days number of a place to call that is a week. The telephone number of 
"fudi~~ 7Crnz;P.~~duCe r~o~~v~~~:d.~t~,~a~~!.O.f 
(AP) .-Indiana farms ~ill pro· mated Sept 1 that . 565 million 
duce a record 565 million-bush· bushels of com w1ll be har. 
el corn crop and a near record vest~ in 1975. The old r~o~d, 
soybean yield this year, crop set m 1971, was 556.4 mill1on 
experts at Purdue University bu,~els., . 
said Thursday. That s a 46 per cent 1~­
Earl Park, Purdue agricul-~rease. from 1974 and ~. 9 m1l· 
tural statistician, said the U.S. bon Jump from 1971, Park 
FREE 
while supplies last 

Notre Darr.e -Saint Mur~,·s 
Canvas Book Backptlcks 
when you open a First Bank checking , :count 
Exclusively at First Bank, you can get one of thesP. handy canvas bags in either Notre Dame's or Saint Mary's school colors with the school emblem em bossed on it. 
Constructed of strong canvas with double-stitched stress points this bag can be carried or worn on your back while walking o; biking. And its contents will be protected in any kind of weather. 
Just start a checking account at First Bank. Once the account is opened, your backpack will be mailed to you. As an added bonus, we'll send you our useful "New Friend at the First" student kit. This kit furnishes you with information about the Michiana area...including a city map, transportation schedules, motel-hotel lists and rates, and lists of local restaurants and used furniture stores. 
Sign up today ... supplies are limited. 
FirstBank. 
With you •••all the way 
Another service of FBT Bancorp, Inc. 
Member F.D.I.C./Full-service bank © 1975, First Bank & Trust Company of South Bend Time & Temperature: Call 234-7121 
ALL CARPET 

Bring your room sizes for easy buying, cash or bcincard. It's aasy to get to Sandock's... take U.S. 31 (hiway between ND AND St Mary's) and go North to Sandock's at 507_60 U.S. 31 NORTH, SOUTH BEND, !13 mile before the State Line, Jots of . Phone 272 -4500.


10 the observer 
Sports program kicks ~if at SMC 
WASJUNGTON (AP) -From filmiand to the farmyard, many favorite tax shelters used by wealthy investors to hide . from the tax collector are being marked for closing by Con­gress. 
The House Ways and Means Committee, drafting a tax revi­sion bill, is taking aim at as­sorted legal devices by which some higher-income Americans 
The 1976 Mock Political Con­vention Committee members invite all ND-SMC students, faculty, and graduate students to join in what Professor Paul Bar­tholomew calls "a course in practical politics," their 1976 Mock Convention. 
The Committee has a mock convention every four years in accordance with the presidential elections and the National Party Conventions. The convention will be held on February 18-21 at Stephan Center. It will be
i~~ratic as the ~mocrats are 
I 
I. 
I 
Rock • soul 
are managing to earn a lot but 
pay little or nothing in taxes. 
In four working days, the 
committee has given tentative 
approval to tax-law changes 
which would bring about $5.7 
billion more into the federal 
treasury over the coming six 
years. 
"The End" would come, ef-. 
fective immediately, for major 
tax shelters in movies, in-
challenging the uresidential Qf(ice. 
The Mock Convention o~rates 
as the national conventions dQ, but 
iJl a smaller scale. It follows the 
same procedural rules and 
regulations. There are many jobs 
for students ranging from state delegationJmd caucus chairpersons to the common jobs of any con­vention. 
· The Executive Committee members have worked since last April to arrange dates and contact candidates concerning ap­pearances. Vince Moschella and ·Nancy Brenner serve as t;o­

Jazz Blues Bluegrass 0 0 
...-G) 

promptly! 
919-B College Square Mishawaka, Indiana (across from Town & Countryr 
Music Store" 
Press Secretary and Publicity Director ,Eleanor Popkin works as convention booklet supervisor. Jim (Buzz) Reynolds handles .delegate assignments Harry Capadano handles the actual campaign supervision. Steve 
Pettit· handles physical plant complexities. 
The Committee wants everyone involved 1in their political theatre. Anyone with questions may con­tact their activities night booth on Sept. 16 or attend the organizational meeting on Sept. 22 at 6:30, or contact any committee 
---· 
I 
I 
0 
-
0 
en 
,.. 
-
., 0 ~ ,., "' ~ I 
I 
I 
. I 
-
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I
at-1: 45-4.: 15-s: 50-9: 2o II-HELD OVER! Winner .. year's best rock movie award! 
I A I is for EVERYONE! I 
Tommy I
• 
..t~":; ~¢~~~ 
~~~:'t . ~~~~ .·· 
~~~ 
+:4.'~~c~ ~·~(jy~ ~.~.q,~~ 
~ 
FACULTY-STUDENT INVOLVEMENT 
Council for the International Lay Apostolate 
IRST GENERAL MEETING 
SUNDAY SEPT 14, 1975 7:00p.m. WASH. HALL 
OLD AND NEW MEMBERS WELCOME 

~.-••••••••••••4•••,··~~,·-~~A·~4'4~.~0
... .............. ,, .... ,. .. ............. t.._ ...... -..
~ ~ 

K. c:s sandwich proceeds of $1000 go to Corvilla 
by John A. Kenward Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame Knights of Coiumbus announced the con­tribution of proceeds earned from last football season's steak sand­wich sales, $1000, to Corvilla, a home for the mentally retarded, during their meeting last Tuesday night. 
The meeting was the first of the year for the Knights, as well as the beginning of the Grand Knight Joe Antonelli's and Deputy Grand Knight Steve Lucero's year-long reign of office. 
The meeting also marked the largest In attendance to date, as ll9 Knights and Ladies of Columbus heard an appeal to fill committee and activity rosters involved in community, church, athletics and youth. 
Deputy Grand Knight Lucero announced the beginning of K of C involvement with Logan Center, the South Bend hospital for the mentally retarded. 'As well as offerir•t 1.9 Logan Center the use of our facilities,' explained Lucero, 'we also want to start having members, henceforth to be known as 'Knights for Logan", visit the center and the kids on a regular basis.' 
Highlighting the meeting was the presentation to the Council of the 'Star Council Award' by District Deputy for the St. Joseph County Chapter of the KC's, Richard Wasoski. The award, in the form of a two-foot tall silver cup, was given to the Notre Dame Knights for meeting specific requirements, among them being the joining of more than 100 new members in the past year. 
'Much of the credit must go to the expertise of Patrick J. Keating, last year's Chancellor and membership chairman,' said Grand Knight Antonelli. 'He put in a lot of hard work with the result of 134 new members joining the Notre Dame Knights-a record for the Council.' 
Commenting on the upcoming year for the Knights, Antonelli and Lucero both expressed en­thusiasm. 'We've expanded and improved all of our activities,' said Lucero, 'And though we haven't really begun anything yet, there is 
such an excited feeling coming from new and old members alike that I'm sure we will retain our position as campus leaders in services to the Notre Dame-South Bend 
Ford assailant demands Justice lor redwoods' 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. <AP) her chance for a fair trial. -Lynette "Squeaky" Fromme, After a second warning from at her arraignment for at-U.S. District Court Judge tempted murder of President Thomas J. MacBride, she Ford, was ousted from federal launched her rambling dis­court Thursday when she de-sertation on redwood trees. manded JUStice for redwood "There is an army of young 
trees and told the J'udge: "The people and children who want 
h. h th ed 

gun is pointed, your honor." to clean up t 1s eart , e r · The red-robed Miss Fromme, wood trees," she began. 
26, a disciple of mass murderer The judge interrupted. But Charles Manson, demanded to she went on: "I want you to speak despite the judge's warn· order the corps of government int~ that she might prejudice engineers to buy up the parks 
Friday, September 12, 1975 the observer 1 1 

,Quick Loansl Morrissey LoanBe good; 
Fund. Up to $150. 30 Days 1 per. cent interest. Basement of LaFortune. M-F 11:15 • 11:15
Dearest DB, RA of HC (Day late), 
Jaws, Jlmbo B, Backstage, Berlin, "But you've got to have friends"
Bud-outs, Nashville Information write ~Students of
Enough"), Python. Notre Dame P.O. Bos 206, Notre
Love, Fidel Dame, lnd: 46556 · 
Reg LaCrlsp (432-36) 

!Council for Retarded. First rec. this Sat. 9:00. Welcome
Congratulations on your catch . at old and new members. \Questions call Tom 287-6673or Kathy 288;4315 
Will do typing. Experienced. Call
Willy 
233-8512 

Will do typing term papers, manuscripts, themes etc. call 233­
Can you 8512 Polaroid 340 camera with flash $50.
glasses Tuesday Hewlett.Packard 45 calculator
night between library and Grace. with leather and travel safety cases. $250. Inquire 203 Fisher. Phone 1945
In black misplaced In "ONE STUDENT FOOTBALL
Reward. Paul 

TICKET · all 5 games cash and carry. Best offer takes It. Call Jolln 8992" 
Near ACC, Tan and Black Answers Mens 10 speed, made In France. Call 287-8489 
Call 3019. Must sell. 
Lost: A turquoise fetish earring on Wanted 4 tlx for Pitt.i Call Jack Great sentimental 
3597. 

if found, call 5429. For sale: used Bundy Cornet .
503 W. 

Good Cond. Call Jack 3597
Duplex 3 rooms Floor, Gas heat. Furnished. 289-6307, 234­
For Sale: Yamaha, 1972. 125 cc. 800 actual mileage. Includes 2 helmets. $595. Or Best offer. 233­2 bedroom apartment or Individual 
6727
Close to campus. $135 and $65. Utilities 

Lots of used furniture, arm chairs, lamps, chests, sofa, electric office bedroom; kitchen, living room; typewriter, beds roll-away, tables, lnlng room; basement. All rooms deep fryer, and other garage sale nd kitchen furnished; 1 and household Items. Thurs. and 
bathroom, shower In basement; Fri. 10-12. 1024 ]Quimby, off Eddy washer; dryer; and deep freezer; between Jefferson Blvd. and quipped with security system; School Field. or call 287-1312. alklng distance from Notre Dame. You may call after 4 p.m. For Sale: '65IGalaxleFord. Good Phone 232-7180 engine like new. 4 11res. 1125. 324. 
5686. 

Whole upstairs floor. sso month. 
WANTED
Girls only 283-7579, 233-1329 
Free Puppies. Call after 3p.m. 272-Need 5 tickets for Northwestern
2520 

game. Call Mike after 6 pm. 288­
Party Fri. nigh~. 1233 woodward 0088 
,ve. Wanted: 2 GAMSU tickets. Call 
277-0014 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
'Despentely need as many as SO 
tlx for S. Calif. (no lokell Cell Mary 40f3 
Need two GA tickets to MSU game. Call Gary 1802 
Need 5 tickets for Northwestern Call Mike 218-0088 
Need 2 SoUThern Cal. tlx. Call Bob 3665 
Need 7 Northwestern GA ticketsII Will PAY TOP DOLLAR 288·5207 
Need 4 Boston College and Southern Cal. tlx. Dave 289-8948 
Desperately need Boston College tickets for family. Call Cole 288­0088 
Need ride to Boston on Thurs. or Fri. Becky 6734 
Need 4 tickets to Mich. Sfate game. 
Call Tom O'Neil at 8661efter 7:00 pm. 
Ride needed to Purdue Fri. 12th. after 6:30pm or Sat. Will help pay for gas. Call Rugh 404_7 
Need 2 GA So. Ca. tlx. Mary 66ao 
Need 1 person for housemate. Excellent condition, newly remodeled. $75 per month Includes utilities. Phqne 287·3463 
Need 2 Purdue Tlx. Call Mlde 8106 
Need 2 tlx MSU or Georgia Tech. CaU Bob 1214 
Wanted: Two Tickets tor B.C. game. Call 272-5133 
Need ride to Madison and Back weekend of Sept. 19. Call 5672 
Need 2 Michigan State ticket$. Call Mike 1438 
Roommatewanted for N.D. apart. menrs call 288-6533 
Wanted: Purdue Tlx <all Va16661 
Need tickets desperately for 
Purdue and Michigan State games. Will pay good price. Call 3650. 

:·==::::::::--*:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;;::::::::::::::::::::~:·:~:~:;:;:::=: :~:=:;;;::::::::::::;;::::::::::::::c::::::::::::::::=:::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;-;:;:;:;:;:;:~:;:;:::;:;:::::w:=:::::=»:::::-: .•~=~~-...._._ -~-_: 

~ 
WE'RE BACK The Pan Pizza Parlor 
again presents 
DEEP DISH PIZZA 
THE PIZZA WEIGHING 6 LB. 
What could be better? 
1) IT'S THE LARGEST PIZZA IN THE MID-WEST. 
2) IT'S THE MOST DELICIOUS PIZZA IN THE WORLD 
If a car is a hassle or you're having a party we're just a phone call away 
WHY NOT :~RDER AN ICE COLD ;S:PACKOF\7-UP OR PEPSI 
' ..J.. ' 

WITH THE PIZZA 
NOTHING COULD BE EASIER I 
pick up the phone and call 
277-1221 or 277-1222 
FOR 

FREE DELIVERY 
anywhere on or off campus "Also fast friendly pick-up service 
)1 07 DIXIEWAY NORTH -ACROSS FROM RANDALL'S INN 
.. 
~ 
~ 
~. ' 
' 
~ 
~ 

12 the observer fridl!y.........., 12, 1975 
Forty:eight or sixty-keeps 

the ND coaches guessing
by Tom Kruczek 

One of the most controversial rules to be decreed by that won­derful body of thinkers, the NCAA, was the decision to limit the traveling squad of college football teams to 48 players. A subsequent court suit overruled that regulation, but the NCAA is ex­
cted to take that decision to a l:gher court. 
Notre Dame is now faced with the problem, how do you prepare for the first two road games? Do you plan on 48 going or do you gamble on 60 making the trip. 
Mervin Johnson, offensive coordinator for the Irish takes the latter view. "Right now we are preparing as if 60 people will go to Boston College. In the time remaining before the game, I don't believe that anything will be 
"th th NCAA
1 ed
reso v WI e · 

Of course up to {a couple of days
' 't bo t th t 
ago we weren so sure a u a
' thinking th t · 

t 48and we w~e th t . , a JUS 
would rna eAAe np. to t th . 
If the NC were ge elr 
ND soccer club 
• f B f

golng 0 OS On 
The Notre Dame Soccer team opens its fall season Saturday against Boston College with a 7:30 contest at Alumni Stadium. On the second day of the short road trip, the Irish take on Stonehill College at 2 p.m. at Stonehill Stadium·. 
The team returns home to Cartier field for a 7:30p.m. contest against Huntington College on September 23. 
. regulation bac_k on the books, ~th 48 players gomg on a road tnp, J~hns~n forsees sever~~:tp~o~le!Ds. First IS the problem With mJur!es. "We have to dres~ _People wh~ can play several positions. So If we have a second teamer w~o can p~ay guard and tackle, we will take him over another. ~rson who can play only one po~1t1on, but may be 
a better p_Iayer.
1
Next . .s the p_roble~ of ~uln~ra.bihty of certam poslbons. 
We d hke. t~ be able to take tw~ at every pos_It_IOn .. But the runrung ~a.ck posl_tlon IS susceptable to InJury,, a~ IS the quarterback spot. So we d h~e. to take along three at those positions, and maybe at center' or anoth~r plac~ wh~r~ we have someone _with a shgh,t !~Jury,but who can still play. We d hke to be able to take extra players along, 
but if the 48 man rule goes in effect 
. , . " , 
we JUSt couldn t do 1t.
A th" d bl J h · 
1r pro em o nsom sees IS 
the removal of incentive to make the traveling team. "I think one of 
the reasons that the coaches di~like this rule, is that it rea~y
will close the door on certam players. One of the most fuHilling
experiences for players is to dress and play in a varsity contest. But with this rule, it means that a third 
team player will not be able to make the traveling squad at all. It's every players dream to make the team, and play in a home game, and then when the player makes progress, to make the traveling team. Well, with the 48 man rule, this would be out of the question." 

.. keg battles that could erupt into frenzy, insanity or all-out war. For starters, Woody Hayes and his Buckeyes return to East Lansing, Michigan-you remember that scene last year when Michigan State pulled out a last-second, controversial victory. It is here that the word 'revenge' will take on its real meaning.Alsq second-ranked Michigan travels to Mad-town (Madison) Wisconsil'lj, and no one can convince the Badgers that they aren't going to win that game. The city has been psyched for weeks. 
Finally Boston College is going to try to pull off another Monday night u· ~~et wh~n Notre Dame comes in for a nationally televised contest. The J, hare the biggest thing to hit the East since the Boston tea party and t1 Eagles would love to be revolutionary. 
noring omens, and sticking it's vulnerable neck out once again, The II ~ Eye will again present its weekly predictions. Last year Greg Cor~an hit on a not-so-sizzling .771 per cent of his predictions, but did manage to call several uncanny upsets, showing that luck can sometimes be a great substitute for insight. 
At any rate here are this week's picks:' N<~tre Dame at Boston Coll~e:~C's strong point is its offense, especially 
i~~~~w~.~itwillber~~~~~~~w~h~fuur. 
tight end Ken MacAfee will be looking to make a big impression in fromt 
of his home fans. Notre Dame by 14. Oregon at Oklahoma: As far as rolling up a big score, enhancing their 
reputation and generally appearing monstrous and awesome, the Sooners picked an ideal team to open up against. The Ducks lost their final eight games last year, and as far as extending that streak goes, they also picked an ideal team to open up against. Oklahoma by 40. Duke at USC: The Blue Devils are young, and juggled players around trying to fill in holes. The Trojans should juggle them around some more. Memphis State at Auburn: It's the Tigers vs. the Tiger's but Shug Jor­dan's cats roar louder. Memphis State has a new coach (Rich William­son) and he has some new problems. Auburn by 17. Coloradb State at Texas: CSU led the nation in passing last year and Mark Driscoll returns at QB for the Rams. Texas is far from invincible, but gladiators the Rams are not, and the game is at Austin. Texas by 10. 
Mississippi at Texas A&M: Ole Miss took it on the chin from Baylor last 
week, and the Aggies are ready to go to work on the rest of them. Maryland at Tennessee: Maryland romped over Villanova last week but so what? This is the Vol's cushion, if you can call it that, for they ha~e to face UCLA, Auburn, LSU and Alabama right afterwards. They could be o-5. Terrapins by 3. LSU at Nebraska: This is the first of five straight home games for the 
Cornhuskers. Maybe by that time they'll find a quarterback. In the meantime they should have enough to get by the Bengals whose new multiple offense is probably not perfected yet. Nebraska by i4. 
Air Force at Arkansas: All-American Dave Lawson may kick the Falcons past Arkansas; but the Razorbackslwill be trying to veer past .Air 
The last problem Johnson mentioned, was the issue other coaches have addressed them­selves to, that of precedent. "I believe that this ruling could set a trend in the future, that when the NCAA makes a ruling, somebody will take them to court, and have it changed. If fact it could affect the li_mitations ~? the coaching staff s1ze as well. 
Another position where problems could arise would be with kicking. Johnson pointed out that he wasn't sure what could be done, other than taking one placekicker and one punter and rely on people like Ken AcAfee or Joe Montana who could kick in an emergency. 
If anything is sure about the regulation it's that it isn't very popular. It was instituted to keep down the soaring cost of college
thl t" d · t d h d 
a ..e .Ics, an ms ea as rawn 
cnbc1sm from all quarters
. · · 

In fact Uus may be one time that 
an Alabama coach and a Notre Dame coach agree on anything. 
.-------------------. 
*ObServer 

Sports 
' 
Irish coach Dan Devine overlooks the final stages of practice before Monday night's clash with Boston College. (Photo by Chris Smith) 

Bill Brink ·================================:=::::::!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:::::::~:~:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::?.?.?.~~!t~~~=====s::x:~~~*:::::::========:::::::::::s:-c::::!8==:~o..:;..::~A-~::s~===~====~;:::::::~::::::::::::::=: 
The Irish Eye 
~=~-::~-;z.:::~w.3::;;::~========::;;;;.~:=:=;;::::::::::::=:=:::=:=:=i-:=:=i-============================================================================::;;.;;::~z::::::;;.::::;;::;;;;:x~Y»~Football picks 
It does not bode well as a season for predictions. Arkansas should. 
We are but one weekend into tlie college football season (and an ab-SMU at Florida: Both teams have potent offenses, so it could be a high brevia ted weekend at that) and already we have been served notice that scoring contest. But the Ponies return only four defensive starters so the this is not a year to rely• on the expected. Yes, Missouri's solid victory Gator's score should be higher. Florida by 10. over Alabama Monday night appears to be an omen, perhaps an ominous Purdue at Northwestern: Whoever takes over at quarterback for Nor­warning that this is going to be one wild, shocking season. thwestern will most likely spend as much time on his back as Mitch 
If that is true, we should get an indication if it this weekend, the first Anderson did, so it looks like down and out for John Pont's Wildcats full-schedule weekend of the '75 season. Indeed there are several powder-again. Purdue is so inconsistent that they may go down with them. But 
probably not. Boilermakers by 12. Michigan at Wisconsin: Don't tell the Badgers or their fans, because they won't believe you. But Michigan is a better team. Neither squad has a quarterback, and though Wisconsin, with Billy Marek, has a strong ground game, the Wolverine's defense gives them the edge. Unless complete and total insanity wins ballgames. Then Wisconsin has the edge. But look for Michigan by 8. Illinois at Iowa: This isn't exactly the big game in the Big Ten this weekend, but every team has its followers. Dlinois is considered a dark horse in the conference this y~r! and no ~ne n;allY. bothered considering lo~a. They sho~d make the llh~1looka little ~1t bnghter. . Mmnesota a~ Indiana : The ~oos1ers were the Jesters of the B1g Te!llast year, but th1~k _they ~an se!1ously mov~ towards the crown. The1r op­ponents, ,rbe~mmng w1th an Improved Mmnesota team, should return the serfs to the1r farms. ~phers by 15. . , Upse~ of the Week: MIChigan State over Ohio ~tate. Everyone. s ready for th1s one, and though the Spartans are recogruzed now, they still do ~ot have as powerful a team as the Buckeyes. But Woody Hayes does not hke East Lansing, and MSU does not like Woody Hayes. It's a nice little relationship that makes for giant battles. The Spartans have a good 
By The Asaociated l"ress 
American League East  
W  L  Pet.  GB  
Boston  86  60  .589  
Baltimore  81  65  .555  5  
New  York  75  71  .514  11  
Cleveland  70  72  .493  14  
Milwaukee  62  85  .422  24lh  
Detroit  55  91  .377  31  
West  
Oakland  88  56  .611  
Kansas  City 80  64  .556  8  
Texas  72  75  .490  17lh  
Chicago  68  76  .472  20  
Minnesota  66  75  .468  20lh  
California  66  79  .455  22lh  
Thursday's  Ga mes  
Boston  3,  Detroit 1  

Baltimore 10, Cleveland 2 New York 10, Milwaukee 2 Only games scheduled 
By The Associated Press National League East 
W L Pet. GB Pittsburgh 82 62 .569 Philphia 78 68 .534 5 St. Louis 75 70 .517 7lh New York 74 72 .507 9 Chicago 70 77 .476 13lh Montreal 64 81 .441 18lh 
West xCincinnati 96 49 .662 Los Angeles 78 68 .534 18lh S.Francisco 70 76 .479 26lh San Diego 66 80 .452 30lh Atlanta 64 82 .438 32lh Houston 58 90 .392 39lh x-clinched division title 
Thursday's Games Chicago 12, St. Louis 6 Houston 4, San Francisco 3, 
12 innings New York 7, Pittsburgh o . ~hiladelp~ia 5, Montreal o, 7 
mnmgs, ram Atlanta at San Diego, (n) Cincinnati at Los Angeles, 

;~:a~n;c~e~o;f~w~in;n~in~g~.~~~~=~~~=======~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
D IN MO N • QCT• 2 Ofh 
pERS0 N 8:00p.m. NOTRE DAME ACC 

TICKET SALES START THIS SATURDAY SEPT. 13th AT THE ACC BOX
TICKET PRICES OFFICE 9 AM TO 5 PM 
RONT STAGE CHAIR SEATS 57.50 
AND THE STUDENT RONT STAGE BLEACHERS 56.50 
UNION TICKET OFFICE IMIT 10 TICKETS PER PURCHASE AT 9 AM. 
The Irish's running game should propel them to at least a few scores andt 

Force with a combined ground-aeriel attack. The Falcons could win, but U;;;:;;;;;;;::;=;:;;;;::=::::;:::::;:::::;:::::;::::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::::::::;:::::;:::::;:::::;==::::;::;;;:::::;:::::;:::::;:=:::=======~~ 




