
Oa The Inside 
NO Energy program ... page 3 Mclaughlin on Calendar •••page 5 



serving the notre dame
Vol. IX, No. 85 
0' 
i 

HERBERT STORING from the University of Chicago appeared for the Government Speaker's Festival in the Architecture Auditorium last night 

Storing views presidency as threat to Constitution 
President mu:;t make a public argument" to 
b)· Rob Radziewicz legitimize his actions. 
Starr Reporter "It is of crucial importance that the 
propriety of presidential action be argued in 
Calling the American presidency "a constitutional pros and cons," Storing ad­creature of the U.S. Constitution," Herbert ded. .J. Storing, professor of political science at Commenting on the system of checks and the llniversity of Chicago, contended that a balances, Storing called it "the working paradox existed at the same time because principle or enforcer of the supremacy of the executive office "seemed to be a major the Constitution. It is not accurate to in­threat to that very Constitution." terpret it as being static," the guest lecturer 
Speaking before a capacity audience in said. "Rather, it is a remarkably vigorous the Architecture Auditorium last night, and successful system which was intended Storing suggested that there may have been to functioP over time and therefore must be "so much Presidential encroachment or eon. idered and judged over time," he Congressional abdication which has caused concluded. a basic change in our system of govern­Prof. Donald Kommers, a co-panelist in mPnt. a change involving Presidential last night's discussion of the role of the l'scape from the limits of constitutional presidency in the wake of Watergate, governmt•nt." applauded the Student Union Academic 
"There has been a revival of interest in Commission for this lecture series and, in the Founders' interpretation of the Con­particular, the highly qualified guest lec­stitution which has become cancerous turers that have given presentations. "It's during the Nixon Administration," Storing certainly better than bringing in some said. "The llnited States is a constitutional Washington gangster at $4000 per lecture," democracy. which means that what Kommers noted. governml'nt may legitimately do is Kommers, professor of government and determined by a system of law, with the international studiesat Notre Dame, agreed Constitution at the apex," the distinguished with Storing's observation on the effects of professor added. Watergate. 
Storing noted that the criticisms of the "Now t>veryone is laboring to find the 
American Presidency that have been intention of the Framers in the wake of 
widespread in recent years have taken two Watt>rgate," he said. 
basic forms. The first, characterized by the The Notre Dame professor called 
views of Senator Sam Ervin, sees the the. Framt>rs "realists, not idealists who 
Presidency as "having usurped the produced a document acceptable to the folks 
leadership role that thefounders had in­back homt', and who left its interpretation in 
tended to be exercised by the Congress." a vt>ry open-ended fashion to future times." 
The second contends that "the American Kommt>rs centered his explanation for a 
Presidency has escaped the limits of the re-examination of the presidency around the 
Constitution and has become, in Prof. Ar­conflict between the Presidency and 
thur Schlesinger's term, an 'Imperial Congress. Each fights for their own policies, 
Presidency'." Kommers t>xplained. 
Storing maintained the same position on "The system is working too well, but 
American constitutional government that nothing meaningful is getting done," the 
Supreme Court Justice Hugo Black en­Notre llamt' government professor pointed 
visioned in the 1957 case, Rel"d v. Covert: out. "Electing good men to office is not the 
'The United states is entirely a creature of sole solution because too often these same 
the Constitution. Its power and authority mt>n are stubborn. There must be a prin­
have no other source. It can only act in l'iple of unity in the political party af­
accordance with all the limitations imposed filiations to bind the legislative and 
by the Constitution," Black wrote. executive branches," Kommers suggested. 
Storing then rebutted Schlesinger's "That's where you get responsible, ac­
argument that a President can use "powers countable and majoritarian government," 
unauthorized by the Constitution but he added. 
legitimized by necessity." Kommers went on to accuse Nixon and his 
"I shall argue, on the contrary, that the confederates for the Watergate plot. "Super 
strategy of the American Founders for crook engineered a political conspiracy 
dealing with the tension between executive against constitutional government. It was 
prerogative and rule of law was to grant almost overlooked if not for the efforts of 
powers with a noble spaciousness so that all the press," Kommers said. 
that President had to do, he could do con­Ht>turning to the significance of the 
stitutionally," the University of Chicago political party, Kommers observed, "If 
professor stated. Nixon had brought the Republican party 
"The Constitution is meant to be com­into the White House, Watergate wouldn't 
modious, and elastic enough to meet the havt' happened." 
demands of necessity and yet retain its Prof. Peri Arnold, another co-panelist and 
character oflaw," he continued, "Obviously government professor, observed that "the 
sucha broad scheme runs the danger of vitality of the separation of powers 
stretching the 'rule of Jaw' or 'Constitution' argument was documented by Watergate." 
so much as to render them meaningless," While Arnold agreed with Storing's 
Storing added. fundaml•ntal argument, he was less op­
Such elastic interpretations can weaken timistic about the future of the Presidency. 
government as a whole and set off a "The modern presidency has changed a 
potentially dangerous constitutional great deal from the Founders' concept 
precedent. according to Storing. because the electoral process is now lost in 
Storing agreed with Schlesinger in that a mass campaigns with a great deal of 
President may, at times, have to make a spt>nding." Arnold said. "The separation of 
broad interpretation of his powers out of powers is all that remains today," Arnold 
necessity, but maintained that "the noted. 
-st. mary's community 
Thursday, February 20, 1975 

Coed living proposal gets positive response 
he too coed but would improve the socialby Bon Rl"imer life."
Staff Reporter Porter cited the separation of the towers 

Heaction among members of the from the girl's dorms and he felt that a coed university community yesterday to the dorm would initiate more interaction bct­Grace Hall coed living proposal strongly WPen the sexes. He expressed disap­favored the initiation of such a plan. pointml'nt that the University Offieers 
Tht• proposal. submitted by Grace Rector ignored the proposal when it was submitted Fr. Thomas McNally. calls for 100 female in the fall. undergraduates to be housed in one section Continuation of cot>d commitmt'nt on each of four floors of Grace as part of a 
Ann McCarry, a member of the

ont' year experimental program in 
Coeducation Committee of the Committ~el'Ot'ducation. At the end of the year 

on Undergraduate Priorities and the

evaluations of the program's success would Student Affairs Committee of the Board ofbe made and the future of the experiment Trustees, viewed the institution of coedwould be decided. 
dorms as a continuation of the University'sMcNally commented on the possible commitment to COt'ducation.

future of the l'Xpt:'riment following the year­"I think it is a very good idea." reactedlong experiment. "I( this experiment MeCarry. The University made a com­works." said McNally, "I would propose mitmt>nt to become coeducational and theyincreasing the numbers <of females) in the have pmphasized learning as living in the ~·pars ahead." 
dorm Pducation," McCarry pointed out.

"Eventually I would like to have an equal "Therefore, it would be incongruous not tonumber of men and women," remarked consider coed living," she continued.
McNally. "It would be an incremental "Since they've made the commitment they process." 
should explore it in all areas." Plan ternwd extremely reasonabll" McCarry favored McNally's plan for coeducation. "The experiment as outlined 
Fr. William Toohey, Director of the by Jo'r. McNally would be a worthwhile one," Campus Ministry, called the proposal she said. "I don't think it would com­"l•xtremely reasonable". "It strikes me as promise the University's morals to try it for 
an t>Xtremely reasonable and very one year."rt>sponsible proposal," remarked Toohey. 
"The whole question is not to handle over­Smvt>y of alumni proposed crowding. Coed living should be accepted on it's own merits." explained Toohey. "It 
Concerning possible negative reaction on provides close and varied contact with the 
the part of some alumni, Bob Howl, opposite sex which is a very healthy ex­chairman of the Hall Presidents Council, perience for young men and women. It can eommented, "The argument that the 
be a beautiful growing experience," com­alumni don't want coed dorms is out-dated." mented Toohey. "I think that they should contact the Toohey explaint>d that the success of such 
alumni and do some sort of survey," said an Pxperimt>nt depended very heavily on 
Howl. "I don't think the opposition would be t·arl'ful structuring, screening and self 
that strong. If that's the only argument Pvaluation. He pointed out that officials at 
against coed dorms, then I don't think it Stonehill College, another school run by the 
would be that hard to overcome," concluded Howl.

Holy Cross Order where coed living is practiced, strongly pointed to careful 
Fr. Hobert Griffin, University chaplin, dt>clined to comment, remarking, "I'd have

structuring and evaluation as keys to success. 
to give it a great deal more thought before I'd care to make a statement, though on theToohey said that the rector of the coed surface it seems good," he noted.

dorm at Stonehill College noted the lack of Grace Hector McNally elaborated on thepromiscuity in the coed dorm. "The criteria for selection of participants in thepromiscuity issue is almost zero in contrast l'Xpt>riment. "We would look for people whoto the one sex dorms," the rector stated. He have the time and energy to make it work, 
attributPd this phenomenon to the careful structuring of the environment. 
not just people looking for a good room," explained McNally. 
(i•·act' pl't>sidl."nt favors plan The actual means for selection are not 

Grace President Tom Porter expected a t>Xact yet, according to McNally. "There favorablt> reaction to the plan from Grace 
will certainly be interviews and possiblyhall residents "I think Grace questionnaires," he said, "in which we will 
residents woi.uu be in favor of the plan, said 
he looking for people who treat the whole Porter. thing seriously, people committed to the 
"There is no way it can't improve the idea." social relations in Grace," observed Porter. 
(continued on page 5)

"If it is set up in sections the plan wouldn't 

r 
t 
the observe..L__ Thursday, February 20, 1975
2 

warld briefs 
CASALE MONFERRATO, Italy <UPil-A dashing blonde armed with a submachine gun and accompanied by three men burst into the Casale 1\lonferrato jail Tuesday and freed guerrilla leader 
Henato Curcio in a daring, commando-style operation, police said Wednesday. 
WASHINGTON <UPil-Watergate burglar James W. McCord, in a three-way attempt to have his one-to-five year sentence for the break-in lifted, asked U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica Wednesday for a new trial on grounds of a "floodtide" of new information that probably would have acquitted him. 
CARSON CITY. Nev. <UPil-The state Senate rejected the Equal Hights Amendment Wednesday, making Nevada the fourth state this year to vote against the proposal banning sex discrimination through the U.S. Constitution. 
an campus t:aday 
4 p.m.--seminar, "image processing in biomedical systems", by dr. 
louis nardizzi. 212 eng. bldg. 

4 p.m.--seminar, "a sruvey of results obtained from pulse 
radiolosis experiments using a febetron 706 accelerator" by dr. 
pierre cordier, rad. lab conference room. 4 p.m.--colloquium, "the transfer ofrehearsalstrategies in normal and retarded children'surveY'reg reichard and thoman gruenen­felder, 119 haggar hall. 
4:30 p.m.--colloquium, "what's going on in logic?" by prof. anil 
nerode, 226 math and comp. center 5 P.m.--vespers, evensong, log chapel. 
6:30 p.m.--meeting, sports cor club, Iafortune lobby 
7:30 p.m.--lecture, "george seferis" by sr. franzita kane, reginaaud. 8 p.m.--political conference, "the court" by dr. david fell man, Jib. aud. 
8 p.m.--concert, herbie hancock, stepan center. 8 p.m.--lecture, "thomas mann--a critical appraisal" by dr. f. braun, haqgar hall aud. 
o p.m.--concert, two harpsichord recital, stapleton lounge. 8 p.m.--~rama, "medea" by r. jeffers, dlr. f. syburg. $1.50 
O'laughhn aud. ' '' 
On energy program 
Ford willing to compromise 
said Ford was "totally flexible" but he added: "There are certain principles that have to be adhered to." 
Meanwhile, L. Williams Seid­man. Ford's economic coor­dinator. said the president was prepared to stimulate the t•conomy with a tax cut in 1976 -on top of a tax cut this year and a proposed rebate on 1974 income taxes -if unemploy­mt-nt fails to drop significantly. 
Bennet Johnston,  D-La.  
Senate  Democratic  Leader  
!\like  Mansfield  said  he  was  

The Observer Is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame Wid St. Mary's College. SubKrlptlons may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

WASHINGTON <UPI) President Ford was reported Wednesday ready to compro­mise on parts of his controver­sial energy program, but the White House insisted that nothing will happen until congressional Democrats come up with a better idea. 
In other economic develop­ments. a presidential adviser told a convention of state governors that Ford might offer another tax cut in 1976 if unemployment stays high and the recession fails to bottom out. 
Also. Press Secretary Ron Nessen reported tht Ford had decided to "tilt" toward higher gasoline prices as a means of holding down increases in the cost of home heating oil, jet fuel and other petroleum products. 
The result could push retail gas prices as much as 14 cents a gallon while holding heating oil price hikes within the six-to seven-cent range, Nessen said. 
0\'er sausage and eggs at the \\hite !louse Wednesday mor­ning. Ford asked 11 Democratic senators. 10 of them from the South. for help on his energy program. 
"Unless we get some action, the country is serious trouble," !\essen quoted Ford as telling the lawmakers. "Everyday that passes we become more vulner­able to blackmail by countries 
that  have  no  concern  for  our  
welfare."  
In  relating  the  event  to  

reporters, Nessen emphasized a hard line. "The next step is for the Democrats to come up with a program that the President can look at," he said. 
Earlier Wednesday, Senate and House Democrats met jointly to seek a common approach to the energy shortage and Sen. John Pastore, D-R.I., reported that it would be several weeks before an alter­native package was ready. 
Ford reportedly feels that this is too long. "The country cannot tolerate drift any longer." he told the governors. 
He described his plan as "insurance" against another Arab embargo. Chairman Alan Greenspan of the Council of Economic Advisers told the breakfast session that in the t-vent of such a boycott "Los Angeles county would come to a screaming halt due to the shortage of gasoline." 
But Ford's guests said the president's appeal was low Rey. "The whole tone of the meeting was one of compromise and conciliation," said Sen. J. 
"t•ncouraged" that Ford was willing to sit down with Dt>mocratic leaders to hammer out a solution. "We don't want confrontation," he said. 
Even Interior Secretary Ro­gers C.B. Morton, the adminis­tration's energy spokesman, 
Ping pong league hallway tluough five week season 
The Notre Dame Ping Pong
League is now half-waythrough its 
five week season, and , according 
to Mike Meissner, founder and 
Commissioner, things are looking 
well for the 12 teams currently 
competing for the campus 
championship. 
The standings of the six South 
Quad teams show Holy Cross first 
with a 3-0 record, followed by 
Alumni 2-0, Cavanaugh II 2-1, 
Morrissey 1-1, and Flanner II and 
Howard on the bottom with 0-2. 
On the North Quad, Cavanaugh 
I now has a 2-2 record, Flanner I 1­
2, Grace and St. Ed-s with a 0-1 
season. Keenan also has a 0-1 
record. Stanford has only played 
one game and lack of enthusiasm 
may cause Meissner to disband 
their team. 
Games are played in the 
basements of the Towers, Holy 
Cross. and sometimes in LaFor­
tune. where the league gets a 
discount. The play-Qffs and finals 
will be played in Flanner. The 
team captains agree where the 
games will be held and no home 
court advantage is given. 
No women's dorms joined the ping 
pong league. However, Carol 
Simmons, the only·female member 
of the league, is allowed to play on 
Grace's team. in 3rd singles and· 1--------~-----------------_, 
2nd doubles matches. 
Sixty people, five to a team, participate in ping pong com­petition. "Hopefully, the captain of the winning team will receive a trophy," said Meissner. "As it stands now, Cavanaugh I, Holy Cross, Alumni, and one other North Quad team will make it to the play-Qffs. The season isn't over yet. though, and plenty of good games still remain to be played." 
WE'RE DOING
ROBERTSON'S 
BI<:AUTY SALON 


YOUR THING AT 
211 S. MICHIGAN STREET -SOUTH BEND 

THE TRIMMERS. 
CONCORD MALL -ELKHART 
SHAMPOO CUT CONDITION BLOW DRY 

$12.50 
ROYAL VALLEY SKI RESORT 
II SI.OPES. T-BAHS & HOPES. 01\'LY :10 l\111\'tTTES FROM 
J 
S()lTTJJ BEl\() II\ Bll('JJANAN, MICH. 
n.d. sml' gt•t discount on "ll'arn to ski" program-call 616-695-:ll!17 or li!l5-:il!li2 brochures at 341 farley 
TONIGHT! THE THURSDAY NIGHT SPECIAL ''HURRICANES'' 

LOOKING FOR ... HOBBY & CRAFT SUPPLIES? 


it ENGINEERING PROJECTS it ARKIE & ART ASSIGNMENTS *MODEL TRAINS, CARS & PLANES 
we carry 
XACTO, DRE MEL, ROCKETS, LIONEL & N GAUGE FULL UNE OF PLASTIC KITS & BALSA WOOD 
HOURS: MWF  9:30-7:30  
T Th S  9:30  -5:30  
SOUTH BEND  
PHONE 287-0180  

Thursday, February 20, 1975 the observer 


ND conservation commiHee r 
Mecha • 

Energy program continued 
by Mauri Miller Staff Reporter 

Increasing inflation has caused the Notre Dame Energy Con­servation Committee to continue its programs, developed during last year's energy crisis, into this year. 
With speculation of an increase of several hundred dollars for tuition next year, primarily because of an inflation which has nearly tripled the price of coal and fuel oils in recent years, methods of fuel conservation and economizing that were apparent during the "energy crisis" should begin to reappear in the· future. 
"We haven't gone any farther than to ask everyone to cooperate in cutting wastes of energy," said Dr. Edward Jerger, associate dean of Engineering and a member of the Energy Con­servation Committee. "Everyone should cooperate to help cut costs." \ Inflation has already caused an increase in tuition fees of $200 for this academic year which is at least partly due to the explosion of coal and heating oil prices in the past two years. Increases in the future can only be kept at a minimum by cutting waste of energy and fuel. 
"Some people are saving," commented Wiiliam Ganser, Power Plant chief engineer . "but fuel costs have more than doubled in the past two years." So for this year. fuel consumption is down about ten per cent over last year.
Fuel usage in the last two years has totaled approximately 1.4 million units (1 million BTU's) and is expected to drop to somewhere below 1 million units for this fiscal year. Costs will continue to soar, however, as the price of each unit has increased from $.65 for the fiscal year 1972-73 to a more than doubled price of $1.35 for this year. The increase is more than a 33 per cent jump in price, even with the lower fuel consumption. 
In a recent statement. Father Jerome Wilson, vice president for Business Affairs, indicated the gravity of the situation. "For the same amount of fuel we bought in September, 1973, we must pay an additional $1,200,000 as of July, 1975. That could average out to a $150-160 increase in student charges alone." Even with decreased consumption, an in­crease appears inevitable. 
According to Father James 

Flanigan, chairman of the Energy Conservation Committee, not much of anything has been done recently or is being planned for the future. "We <the committee) really haven't done anything since the last time I talked to someone from the Observer," said Flanigan. The last committee meeting was in December, with no plans for one in the immediate future, according to some mem­bers of the committee. 
But some programs have con­tinued from last semester, with lights, heating and power plant economizing being the main areas of concern. 
"In essence what we've done is continue programs started last year," said Jerger. This includes the shutting of radiators, changing operating procedure in the power plant to optimize its use of fuel and reduce waste of steam. "We are working as hard as we can, without working a hardship on anyone. We are just asking everyone to cooperate." 
According to Ganser, most of the fuel is used for heating of buildings. "This is the area we had hoped to save on. During the winter months we had hoped to get people to conserve on heat. We can shut the heat off in the fall and spring to help conserve fuel." 
Heating and lighting are areas that the Energy Conservation Committee members had worked on improving in conservation 
by Sheila Pfister Staff Reporter 
A Dean's Search Committee has 

been appointed by the College of 
Arts and Letters to seek a 
replacement for Dean Frederick J. 
Crosson. 
Its members, elected by the 

College Council, include: 
Professor David Burrell, 
Theology; Professor Matthew 
Fitzsimmons, History; Professor 
Ronald Weber, American Studies; 
Professor Thomas Werge, 
English; Michael Wahoske, 
Senior; Assistant Dean Isabel 
Charles, Chairman. 
The committee nationally ad­vertised the position in the Ch•·onicle for Higher Education, and a large number of candidates applied. It solicited nominations from a number of administrators from colleges of the same caliber as Notre Dame. Also, the Com­mittee asked the faculty and the administrators of Notre Dame to nominate candidates. 
According to Assistant Dean Charles, "In a series of weekly meetings, the members have examined credentials of a largenumber of highly qualified can­didates. This number has now been limited to a small group of candidates who are receiving during the first semester. Ac­cording to Carol Simmons, student representative on the committee, each member surveyed his own area and found ways of cutting down on consumption. The measures taken have had con­siderable effect on fuel use, especially in the library and ACC. 
Another area of saving is within the power plant. It is presently buring 90 percent coal and 10 percnt of the more expensive heating oil. The plant will be running "about 95 per cent coal" when the operations are changed," said Ganser. This will mean savings of fuel costs in the future. 
"It's not getting better; it's getting worse," said Ganser. "We want people to cooperate, not getcomplacent." 



closer scrutiny. A few of these will be invited for interviews within the next month." 
The candidates are evaluated on scholarship, teaching, ad­ministration experience, ability to function in a university setting and leadership. 
In addition, Assistant Dean Charles stated that "the com­mittee will narrow its choices to a small number, 3 or 4, whom they will recomment to Fr. Hesburghand Fr. Burtchaell." It will be Fr. Hesburgh's and Fr. Burtchaell's decision in the selection of the new Dean of Arts and Letters. 
The Committee hopes to com­plete its work in time for a new dean to assume duties for Fall 1975. 
Pre-Law Society 




Law Students Symposium 

Sat. Feb. 22 1:30pm Library Auditorium 
All Invited 
General Meeting & Reception for all prospective bi-lingual tutors 123 Warren 8 pm Friday Feb 21 corner of 31 & Toll Rd. 


N 0 W APPEARING 
ROYAL AMERICAN 
SHOWMEN AND 
LISTEN 




~S"ufa~



NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WEO-THURS on U.S. 31 Mtween llin. So. B•d-FrM 'artin&-61~350 

STARTS FRIDAY 21st 
A Mavir. Worth Production co--nng Valerie Perrine 
e-.o.o"oducoo OweclodOy
.._.. 
David V. Picker Julian Barry Marvin Worth Bob Fosse 
~ ID REQUIRED UnndArhm 
Uncle Willie's Fatal Glass of Beer daily specials: 

Al\on-Thurs 12-6 pm 1 frosted mug 25¢ 
50' sandwiches: 
hamburgers 
cheeseburgers 
polish sausage 
kosher dogs 

TUESDAY & 

Pitcher Night 


SATURDAY 

pitcher $1 .25 
Fri. & Sat. noon-6 pm 
hotdogs 10¢ 


These Specials Every Week 

the observer Thursday, February 20, 1975 

University reznains undecided regarding 175-'76 tuition increase 
by Chris Herlihy Starr Reporter 

The amount of the tuition in­crease slated for the 1975-76 academic year still remains unknown. 
When asked as to the amount of the increase, Father Jerome Wilson, vice president for Business Affairs. said, "I can't say at this time." 
He did state, however, that, "It won't be as high as the 12 per cent inflation rate that has hit our present economy. This year's tuition increase was $200. I can't see that as decreasing." 
Wilson said that the deans are 
presently working on the figures 
and that many meetings have been 
scheduled before the final draft is 
submitted to the trustees in May. 
Ht• added that the question is being 
kept open for as long as possible to 
prevent short lived economic 
fluctuations from influencing the 
Found last May 
final d~ision. 
Besides increased fuel costs, Wilson blamed the increase on inflated maintenance expenses. Maintenance costs, which include employing janitors, repairmen, warehouseman, teams for heat, light. and power supervision, and the fire station are expected to increase oy 10 per cent. 
The University has tried to reduce costs in this department by recently changing to a different rubbish collecting company. The former company had planned to double collection rates which triggered the decision to switch to another company at only a third of the cost. 
The use of the O'Shaughnessy contribution will be made possible as soon as the stock is sold. Wilson emphasized such action may take some time until the declining market situation is remedied. 
Prof. Paul Rathburn had mentioned in a f<'ebruary 6 interview that by attracting the enrollment of eligible minorities, including blacks and women, the tuition expense gap between public and private schools might close. He later clarified this statement, saying that he was considering colleges in the nation as a whole. He felt that attracting minorities into college ranks would be the 

answer to fulfilling declining enrollments at schools which had priced themselves "out of business." 
Daniel Saracino, associate director of Admissions, reaffirmed that there was no co-relation bet­ween attracting minority students to Notre Dame and increased federal subsidies to a "general fund." Government and university aid is awarded on an individual student basis in the form of loans, grants, or work-dty jobs. 
Students will have to wait until May, it seems, before actual tuition increases are disclosed. 
Court discloses SLA victi111 list 
OAKLAND, Calif. (UPIJ -A the parts could be used to court document disclosed accompany tape recorded com­Wednesday that FBI agents muniques to verify their authen­
found Symbionese Liberation ticity. Army lists of candidates for Existence of this material death and kidnaping in a Los was listed in a motion filed in 
Angeles house believed to have connection with a closed been inhabited by Patricia hearing in Alameda CountyHearst. Superior Court In the case of The FBI said it found the SLA soldiers Russell Little and 
material last May 16, the day Joseph Remiro, accused assas­before six members of the SLA sins of Oakland school superin­
were killed in a shootout with tendent Marcus Foster Nov. 6,police. 1973. Among items found were The purpose of the hearingMiss Hearst's Social Security was to disclose to the defense 
card, her airline student all physical evidence the discount card, the University of prosecution intends to use in California card of Steven Weed, the Little-Remiro trial sche­her onetime fiancee, and a duled to open Monday in picture of the couple eating Sacramento. with chopsticks in their Berke­A defense motion, listing the ley apartment. material, asked that it should 
The cards and photos were not be introduced in the trial on cut diagonally, apparently so grounds that it was illegally 
Tattoos not taboo despite current state of economy 
FORT WORTH. Tex. (UPIJ depend on the extent of · the -Despite the hard times, an work, beginning at $3 for a out'{)f-the-way location and the name to $30 for the peacock. pain they must endure, custom­",rust a week ago, I had one ers still flock to Mrs. Audrey boy and 11 girls come in for 
Ford's tattoo parlor. tattoos," she said. "I do a lot of 
Mrs. Ford's business is 

the .karate dragons and Harley­sandwiched between a boot Davidson motorcycle insignias
shop owned by her husband, for men, but most of the James. and a defu.nct barber women get little roses or shop near the northside's butterflies that are really
famous stockyards. colorful." 
seized without a warrant. The prosecution denies this, and contends the evidence is rele­vant to the trial to give a complete picture of the SLA. 
The material involved was found May 16 when an army of police surrounded an 84th Street house in Los Angeles. Nobody was home, but the next day six SLA members involved in the Hearst kidnaping were killed in an exchange of shots and burning of another house a few miles away. 
The death candidacy list of a dozen prominent San Francisco business leaders and a list of "possible people to snatch" were revisions of lists originally found in a Concord, Calif., home at the time of Remiro's and Little's arrests -three months before the Hearst heiress was kidnaped last Feb. 4 from her apartment. Two months after that Miss Hearst joined the SLA and she now is a fugitive from numerous criminal charges. 
Also introduced at the hear­ing were 30 weapons found in the burned Los Angeles house. They included a pistol and shotgun which the prosecution contends were purchased in Oakland by Little and Remiro. 
Judge Gordon Minder said he would rule on the defense motion before Monday. The Little-Remiro trial has been scheduled in Sacramento for fear that a fair trial would be impossible in Oakland. 
"One woman. a beautiful woman. came up from Waco with her husband. She was wearing diamonds and a fur," the softspoken Mrs. Ford said. 
"Well, she has 27 rose tattoos and she could put on a bikini and they wouldn't show." 
About 20 years ago, her In the MINI-MALL at TOWN & COUNTRY Shopping Center 


husband tattooed a fake mole on the back of a newborn boy's leg. 
"The child was stolen from 


SKIERS: 
the mother at birth by the father and she had no other 

25% OFF ON
way of identifying him, so when she got him back, she had him tattooed," Mrs. Ford said. "Birthmarks often go away, but 

ALL SKI CLOTHING 
not tattoos." Some of her other customers have been school teachers. 

__......._DAY PACKS & RUCKSACKS 
college professors, cowboys, elevator operators and exotic dancers. 


1 WEEK SPECIAL 
"Some of our customers are the elderly," the petite, 55-year­old woman said. "A person that's a diabetic has tattooed on 

TENNIS & 
his hip the word 'diabetic' because they're often unable to 


BACKPACKING EQUIP.
talk when they're in a coma." The shop is adorned with stencils and pictures of availa­


COMING SOON
ble tattoos, from the traditional names and "Mother" to Mrs. 1-'ord's speciality-a rainbow­hued oeacock. The prices 
THURSDAY PITCHER BEER NITE 
TONIGHT 



"FAITH" 
WHITE HOUSE INN 


NO COVER
2839 N. 5th 


683-9842
Just 8 mi. north of the state line. 
Take U.S. 31 north to Niles, then north on highway 51 3 mi. 


Mac's Recor Rack $1 off 

RECORD OF YOUR CHOICE (ONLY WITH AD) 
WATCH FOR WEEKLY SPECIALS 288-1178 
A FULL SERVICE RECORD STORE 
2923 MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BENI>, INI>. 46615 
Phillip Roth's 






PORTNOY'S COMPLAINT 
starring Richard Benjamin Karen Black 
Eng. Aud. 7 • 9 • 11 
Friday · Saturday Feb. 21, 22 
·­Admission $1.00 Rated R 




NICKlE'S 
PRESENTS 


60 HOURS 

OF THE LOWEST BEER PRICES IN THE COUNTRY! 
MON, TUES, WED: 

NOON  -MIDNIGHT  
THURS, FRI, SAT:  
NOON  -8:00 P.M.  

PLUS THE BEST HALF-POUND CHARCOAL GRILLED HAMBURGERS IN TOWN 


At Morrissey meeting 
McLaughlin discusses calendar 
by John DeCoursey Staff Reporter 

The academic calendar was the main topic of conversation in an informal gathering of students with Student Government President Pat McLaughlin in Morrissey's lounge last night. 
Calling the calendar a shaft instead of a compromise, McLaughlin said, "The Academic Council recommended a post Labor Day start and a break during Thanksgiving, and it was just assumed that the break at Thanksgiving would be longer than it is now." 
Commenting on student reac­tions by students, McLaughlin said, "We've had calls, but people feel it won't be changed." 
He suggested that the best thing students can do is approach student members on the Academic Council but he felt nothing would happen. 
"No one on the Academic Council wants to bring up the issue again," he added. 
Suggestions were made about starting a boycott or forming picket lines, but McLaughlin replied negatively to the suggestion. "In our talk at the Hall President's Council meeting last night, the same suggestion came up, but most members felt it wouldn't work with mid-semester exams coming up. 
McLaughlin also said, "Unless you have a large number of students, like 4,000 to 5,000 willing to strike, you shouldn't strike. If 
Co-ed dor1n reactions positive
.. 
(continued from page 1) 
The 100 undergraduate women would be composed of freshmen and volunteers who now live l'lsewhere on campus. Space would be created for the women by reducing the number of first year males Pntering the hall, with the possibility of forcing some present n•sidents off campus, according to i\lt'Nally. 
McNally expressed the hope that a large number of present residents would not be forced tc leave. "My hope is that men now in Grace would be willing to subject themselves to a greater risk in the lottery to assure a 
the observer 
Night Editor -Thomas O'Neil Ass't Night Editor -Martha L. Fanning Layout -Gregg Bangs, Maureen Sa jbel, Marti Hogan, Julie Pellettiere, Bob Brink, Bob Nader, Jim Stevens Copy Reader -Story -Sleuth Girouard, and Golden Voice Hanifin Day Editor -Val Zurblis Sports -Greg Corgan Typists -Janet Carney, Jim Landis, Tom Modglin, Barb Norcross, Neil Viii, M.J. Foley Compugraphic Operator -Mel Blinder Picture Screener -AI Night Controller -Rick Huber 
BELATED HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO ALFACE: Managing Editor to End 
International 
Students 
Open House 
Open House in International Students 
Room 
(Basement of LaFortune) Tuesdays & Thursdays 12:20 pm -1 : 10 pm Free Coffee and Munchies All students, administrative staff and faculty welcome. 
you have less than that, it makes the students look bad. The Ad­ministration will just say that students don't care about the issue." 
Some student in the audience said that the calendar is just one more example of Fr. James Burtchaell, University provost, getting everything he wants. 
One student said, "He's becoming a little dictator." 
Other students, citing quotes of student Academic Council members in yesterday's Observer felt that the students were not in touch with student opinion about a long Thanksgiving break. 
Replying to these complaints, McLaughlin pointed out that a meeting would be held Thursday night <tonight> in LaFortune ballroom at 6:30 to talk about complaints. "We figure most talk will be about the calendar, but any complaints can be brought for­ward." 
Bills before the Indiana legislature were also discussed. McLaughlin stated that the bill relieving universities of liability in alcohol related accidents had a good chance for passage but felt that it wouldn't have much effect on drinking on campus. "We still won't be able to have hall parties." 
Concerning the bill to lower the drinking age to 18 McLaughlin said, "The bill went to the House Public Policy Committee, and the chairman, Chester Dobis, said it wouldn't get out of his committee, but Richard Bodine, <a Democrat 

t•oeducational experience for those "The only change in hall ac­who remained," remarked tivities will be an increase in 1\lcNally. educational programs to bring 
"1 hope it will not be necessary to mm and women together." said force anyone out," commented 1\lcNally. l\1cNally. Concerning specific changes in 
The coed sections would be the hall operation to accomodate "vPry much a part of the hall" said womt'n McNally explained, l\1cNally. "The entire hall will be "security would have to be beefed involved, all the people would be up in areas where women reside, part of the experience," he ex-hut whether Detex cards will be 
ned. used will be decided later." 
o. R.E.o. Speedwagon, you sure make tasty albums. IN COLLEGE SQUARE Since you stormed out of the midwest into our (ACROSS FROM TOWN 
hearts, you've been responsible for some ofthe most supercharged music ever heard. & COUNTRY} Your new album, "Lost in a Dream," is your big-MISHAWAKA 
gest blast yet. Room-shaking explosions of molten metal that never let up for a micro-second. And that's just fine with us because R.E.O., we amid never get our fill ofyou![j~~~==n 
vp}Wl)e On Epic Records~) and Tapes 

from South Bend> is pressuring the chairman to hold a hearing and get the bill out of committee onto the floor. It is also "very possible," he added, "that the age limit will be raised to 19 before the bill is passed." 
Questions about dorm life and the power of the rector were raised and McLaughlin said, "Students don't want to challenge the rectors, and they're afraid they'll get into more trouble." 
He suggested that student with complaints contact Brian McGinty, student government judicial coordinator. McLaughlin also read several proposals that are being studied by a committee in the SLC, which would limit rectors' powers and increase student rights. 
One student suggested student representation on the Board of Trustees, which is being con­sidered by some state universities. 
Replying, McLaughlin said, "We would need a lot of students on the board, and a few wouldn't do us much good. At the present time, we give presentations before the board and this seems to work well. The board members listen to us and give us a decent chance. I 
wouldn't favor getting one or two 
seats on the board if it meant 
giving up our presentations." 
Concerning the upcoming elections, McLaughlin said, "I will not endorse anybody in the up­coming elections, and I feel that the biggest issue is the students vs. administration." 
Thursday, February 20, 1975 
MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES 
* 
2 FILMS  
*  BOOKSTORE  
*  LIVE FLOOR SHOW  

1316 SOLITH MICHIGAN STREET CALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION 
e 
SEE R.E.O. SPEEDWAGON 
IN CONCERT 
SATURDAY, MARCH 1 
AT 
RRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM, 
SOUTH BEND 

L.P.'s AVAILABLE AT BOOGIE RECORDS 
6 

the observer Thursday, February 20, 1975 
SMC roo.m selection procedures chosen by Student Affairs staff 
The room selection with priority "Students who are moving offby Cathy Busto to class means that juniors have campus, transferring, taking aStarr Reporter first choice, sophomores, second leave of absence, or going abroadSt. Mary's Student Affairs staff choice and freshmen, third choice. should give their names to thedecided yesterday to adopt Priority is given according to the Housing Office by April 11," BlaisProposal B as its official room number that the student has. said. Students who have anyselection procedure for this spring, 
questions should see Blais before
according to Housing Director Under this housing policy, no April eleventh.
Nannette Blais. rooms will be reserved for 
Blais observed that letters will
freshmen. Freshmen will be
Under this proposal, a student be sent out by next week to
placed in rooms after the room
will have the option of freezing her students who are taking leave of
selection process.

present room. if all present oc­absence so that they can choose a
A student may freeze her room
cupants also wish to do so, or to contact student to select their 
on April fourteenth, and the lottery 
participate in the class lottery. room for them. She noted that
will be on April 16. The times and 
Room selection with priority to several people do not have contact
places will be posted later. Room
class in number are also part of the students. Students should send in
selection days are Monday, April
policy. the name of a friend to the Housing 
21 through Thursday, April 24. 
Office to choose their rooms for 
A $50.00 non-refundable room them if they do not have a contact
Kissinger returns deposit fee is due in the Business student. 
Office during business hours on Last Monday night the SMC 
April 9 for juniors, April 10 for Student Government conducted a
from Middle East sophomores, and Aprilll for fresh­poll during dinner concerning the 
men. "Anyone not having a room selection policy. According
WASHINGTON <UPI) receipt at the time of room to Blais, approximately 25 per cent Secretary of State Henry A. selection will be placed last by the of the student body voted. Of the 25 Kissinger flew back to Wash­Housing Offie," Blais noted. percent of the students who voted, ington Wednesday at the end of Blais added that the room over half of them voted for some his lOth Middle East peace­deposit fee could not be refunded if type offreeze policy. The biggest seeking mission, bringing with a student decides to transfer or to objection to any policy was the him new proposals to settle the move off campus after the room proposal of reserving rooms for four-war. quar.ter-century con-selection. freshmen. flict. · 
Kissinger's second major concern on his 10-day journey through the Middle East and Europe was a possible reduc­




!FAT WALLV;SI 
~ ~'
tion in the price of oil. 
·:· ----------------·.· 
~.t..t,. 'S.o 


In Paris. his la::.t stop before flying home, Kissinger break­fasted with President Valery Giscard d'Estaing and indicat­ed afterw:ud the United States probably would attend a preparatory meeting next month for a French-proposed international energy conference 
The return  secretary planned to the Middle East  to in  
about  three  weeks  to  try  to  

conclude an agreement between Egypt and Israel on a new troop withdrawal in the Sinai desert east of the Suez canal. 
NOW APPEARING 
._.c srr.Jt.~ 

NOW SERVING
SUPER ROCK



ZARKOV 
GYROS (A GREEK SPECIALTY)
Wed. 9:00 -1:00 No Cover 

AND OTHER FINE FOOD 
Fri. & Sat. 9:30 -1 :30 Beer Nile Mondays 8 -2 

ALSO YOOR FAVORITE

* ecial Price * 
BEER, WNEAND COCKTAILS
I!IIW. 
ACROSS FRONI 

GOOD OLD CORBY'. 
-. I

~--------------------------------------------------------------------· 
I I I


HAVE YOU GOT A BITCH? I 
I I 
I
PROBLEM NIGHT RALLY I I 
I I 
I I I
A Pre-Election Warm-up I I 
with SBP PAT McLAUGHLIN I I I 
I I I



TONIGHT 6:30 I 
I 
I 
1 
I LaFortune Ballroom II !I RESPOND TO: !I !I THE CALENDAR DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES II 
I I 
! r 
' 
II AGE OF MAJORITY TUITION INCREASES II 
I I 
I etc. etc. etc. I 
I I 
I I 

II I BE THERE OR BE SILENT! I I 
II 
I 
·--------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, February 20, 1975 the observer 
7 
NO 
w 
Robinson Jeffers 
I MEDEA
t-adapted from Euripedes 
Feb. 20, 22 -8 pm (No Show Feb. 21 >
SMC 
Feb. 23 -2:30 pm Feb. 26, 27, 28, Mar. 1 -8 pm
THEATRE 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Arena Seating -284-4176 $1.50 Stud-Fac-Staff 
BURT "THE LONGEST
1 


REYNOLDS YARD'' ~ 
Mon-Thur 6:45, 9:15 Friday 7:00, 9:30 Sat & Sun 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
LAW AND DISORDER [BJ 
~ lon-Thur 7:15, 9:30 Friday 7:30, 9:45Sat & Sun 2:30,4:45,7:30,9:45 
._ 13()ile.-llct.Ke r=lix 
Twm Theatres/1 OOCenter/Mishawaka/255-9575 
-
Fraud charged 
Nixon's tax aids indicted 
By ED ROGERS 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -A Watergate grand jury Wednes­day indicted an attorney and a document appraiser for their part in backdating former President Richard M. Nixon's gift of vice presidential papers to the National Archives. 
The Nixons' 1969 tax return showed the gift, valued at $567,000, was made on March 27, 19_69. In actuality, the papers granting the gift were signed and notarized April 10, 1970 -well after Congress passed a law sharply cutting back tax benefits for gifts made after~ July 25, 1969. 
The indictment named Los Angeles Attorney Frank DeMarco Jr., 49, and Chicago appraiser Ralph G. Newman, 63. 
Former White House deputy assistant Edward L. Morgan, who already has pleaded guilty for his part in backdating the gift. was named an unindicted co-conspirator. Morgan was sentenced in December to four months in prison and 20 months probation for his part in the backdating scheme. 
DeMarco was charged with conspiracy to defraud the United States. making false statements to the Internal Revenue Service, and obstruct­ing an inquiry of the Joint Committee on Internal Revenue Taxation. 
Newman was charged with conspiracy to defraud, and with assisting in the preparation of a false document filed with a federal income tax return. 
The court said conviction for conspiracy to defraud and for making false statements to the IRS carry maximum penalties of five years and a $10,000 fine on each count; obstructing a congresssional inquiry five years and $5,000; and assisting in preparing a false statement three years and $5,000. 
After the IRS ruled against Nixon's deductions, he agreed to pay almost $500,000 in back taxes and interest penalties. He said his personal savings would be "virtually wiped out." 
Nixon's pre-presidential pa­pers were moved to storage facilities under control of the General Services Administra­tion on March 26-27, 1969. But this act itself was not claimed to constitute the "gift," the indictment aid, adding that DeMarco, Newman and Morgan took various parts in having a Nixon deed actually transfer­ring the material to the government fraudulently back­dated to March 27, 1969. 

The IRS audit division began a re-audit of the Nxon tax returns on Dec. 7, 1973, and continued into 1974. The GSA and the joint congressional committee entered the investi­gation in 1974 at the request of Nixon. 
The indictment said that during these investigations, "the conspirators would conceal and cause the concealment of various documents " and "would destroy and cause the destruction of other such documents." 
During the government's study of the claimed deduction, IRS investigators urged a grand jury be impaneled to investigate DeMarco, Newman and Morgan. 
The investigators said that if Nixon's aides could be com­pelled to testify, they could "possibly connect the taxpayer with the preparation of the return" -thus providing the basis for a fraud penalty against Nixon. The question became moot when President Ford pardoned Nixon Sept. 9 for all Watergate-related offen­ses. 
G.O.P. claims 'stacked deck' 






Comznittee lorzned to probe CIA 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -The House established a special committee Wednesday to inves­
tigate  all  government  intelli­ 
gence  agencies, includ ing  the  
CIA.  

On a 286-120 vote, the House established a 10-member Select Committee on Intelligence to be composed of seven Democrats and three Republicans, disre­garding GOP charges the commitee membership was stacked against them. 
Earlier, the House defeated by a 265-141 vote an amend­ment by Rep. John B. Anderson, R-Ill., that would have provided equal party representation. 
The Democrats also refused a last-minute appeal by Rep. Mildred Fenwick, R-N.Y., for Speaker Carl Albert to appoint four Republicans instead of three. She contended the move "would convince the people of the nation that we can rise above party, that are seeking the truth." 
The committee's composition as finally adopted almost exactly reflected the party division in the House as a whole. 
Earlier, House Republicans had charged the Democrats with trying to create "a stacked deck" aimed at limit­ing the investigation only to intelligence operations under the Nixon administration. 
"We don't want a stacked deck," said Rep. Barber B. Conable, R-N .Y .,chairman of the Republican Policy Commit­tee. He said the scope of the investigation should extend back to at least the Johnson administration. 
The measure in its final form set no limits on how far back the committee may probe, but neither did it stipulate how far back its investigations must go. 
Albert promptly appointed Hep. Lucien N. Nedzi, D-Mich., chairman of the committee ­the third special panel named in recent weeks to investigate the CIA. Nedzi has been chairman of the Armed Ser­vices special subcommittee on intelligence. 

The special investigations were triggered by published allegations that the CIA and other agencies had systemati­cally conducted illegal intelli­gence-gathering operations against large numbers of American citizeB,s in the past decade, particularly antiwar activists and other political 

WOODY ALLEN TRIPLE FEATURE ! KOOKS! COUPS! 
Another Special Event InThe American Film Theatre Season Of Special Events.. 

"Brecht's 'Galileo' is a distinguished piece of work." 
-Soturdoy Review 

Tickets' $5.00 Evenongs. $3.50 Matinees . ($2 50 lor SeniorCit1zenstStudents at Matinees.) Available alter AFT Season Ticket holders are seated. 
CLASSIFIED AU!I 
WANTED 
Need riders to Cincinnalli. Leave Thurs. nile Feb. 20, Return Feb. 
23. Call Earl 2153 
Need riders to Kent, Ohio. Call Brian 287-3586 
Need 10 De Paul Tix. 289-2757 
Ride wanted DC area weekend March lsi. Fran 5714 
Married couple needed for live-in houseparents for foster home. Salary. Write P.E.P. Inc. 3012 S. Twyckenham, South Bend 46614 
1 need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale Fla. during the Spring Break (help pay for gas and drive too) Please call Mark at 2SS-SSS9 
Need ride to Chicago this weekend. Urgent. 5124 
Wanted: 2 or more De Paul tixs. Casey 272-9321 
Wanted to buy: Girls bike, any speed, 26". Maureen..233-37S8. 
FOR SALE Money? Morrissey Loan will lend up to $ISO for 30 days 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune. Daily 11:15 to 12:15 
5130 PE turntable !Made by Dual) Imrnaculate. Call 234-6535 Mike 
For Sale Pioneer turntable PL·Sl with AT 125 cartridge. Call Ed 1487 
For Sale: One black & while 12 
•inch Motorola Television. Call Ed 1487 
Stereo equipment for sale: Ken. wood 3130 receiver, $110; 1 pair AR 6 speakers, $125; 1 pair Har. mon. Kordon 20 speakers, $40; Philips 302 turntable, $60. Call 6801 
NOTICES 
OBSERVER STAFF: "The family that prays together stays together." Mass is being offered each weekday during Lent in the 
Ballroom of LaFortune, 12:30 P.M. See you there! Mom 
Need ride to Columbus, Ohio weekend of Feb. 28. Call Chris 4264 
Disciplinary action hanging over your head? Call Student Govt. 7668. We may be able to help. 
Tune up specialist. 2 barrel car. buretor overhaul $24.95 parts in· eluded. 232-1796 
S.H.A.R.E. Hotline phone 4311 rm IS Holy Cross S.M.C. Completely confidential 8-12 nightly 
Over Seas Jobs-Australia, Europe, S. America, Africa, Students all professions and OC· cupations $700-$3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sigh!· seeing. Free information. Tran. sworld Research Co. Dept. F3, 
P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, Ca. 
Campus Press is now hiring an experienced pressman. ln. terested? Contact C.P. at 7040 1-5 nights call Glen 287-6245 
Pipes, papers, new & used books, magazines and news papers to round out a good weekend. Pan. doras Books 602 N. St. Louis at S. Bend Ave. 
FOR RENT 
Now renting 2 to Sbedroom homes. Completely furnished for Sept. Call 234-9364 
6 mo. sublease of a $175.00 1 bedroom apt. for only $130. If in. terested call Bonnie 232-5853 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: Gold opel necklace in Dillon on Sat. night. Call Sheila 7962 
Lost: gold bracelet with while flowers at SMC of great sen. limental value . call 5409 
Accidently switched navy wrap jackets at Crestwood Party Fri. Call Marianne 284-4101 
Lost: pair of black framed glasses near O'Shag. Call 289-6142 
Lost: Sterling silver cross, J,• inch, no chain. Between D·1 parking lot and Keenan. Of great sentimental value. Reward offered. If found, call Pat 3303 
PERSONALS 
Thanks to Buno, Bags, and Dr. G, Cheech Wizard is alive & out of jail. 
Morrissey Bruin, Sorry to hear about the defeat in B· Ball. Beller luck next game. Eunice 
Mike: Remember Pink Floyds Towers? Herbie Hancock is not a rumor. Call 5700 
Mort Freen Says: SAVE STUEY 
Doug, Buckwheat's coming. Norbert 
To the SMC girl with the red biretta, you're a beautiful person. An admirer 
For a mount call 1576 
To the dark brunette in Mr. Noell's Soc. class 9TT11, Smile 
Eward "F" will strike again. De Leonardo 
Duckie, Duckie, Duckie Happy 20th Herman and the Moose 
Culie, It would be subtle if your roon, wasn't sandy so you could giveth~ 

-bill to Sally after the Quickie. 1 love M 1 M's. Insane! TOP 


8 the observer Thursday, February 20, 1975 
~----~~~~~~~~-------------­
1ceman' alive and well with Irish 
b)' Pete McHugh 
Has "the Iceman" cometh, and goneth? 
Where are the game winning baskets? the expert passes? the twisting layups? Just what's happened to Dwight Clay? 
To begin with, Dwight "the Iceman" liveth, playeth, and talketh still. And though seeing less action than any of his previous seasons, he's more concerned about his team than his playing time. "Well, really it bothers me because I'm used to starting, but it's good to give everybody some playing time especially if we can get into the playoffs." 

Not that Clay has been dormant all season. He currently is third on the team in scoring (9.5 ppgl and leads Notre Dame in assists for the third straight )lear. His shooting thl' first half of the season helped to relieve some of Adrian Dantley's·
scoring burden, with a 22 point performance against Nor­thwestern his season's best. 
In January, Dwight's game was

/ 
frustrated to a certain extent with the recurrence of last year's nagging foot injury. Following a

. 
brawl with Maarquette in

"' 
Milwaukee he was sidelined for 

dose to ~ week by the more OW IGHT CLAY has had to share his guard position in recent games. He l'ommon common cold. He shrugs hopes to make the best of his playing time left this year for the Irish. off the setbacks however "Any 
Greg Corgan=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=;=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=;=:=:=:=:=:=:=: 
The Irish Eye 

Ask any college basketball coach, say Digger The East division is the only sectional where the Phelps for instance, about the NCAA tournament and at-large teams will be selected by virtue of four ~·ou're likely to get a reply something like this: "It's preliminary playoffs. Every other at large team will too early to start talking about the tournament. Bids be ehosen by the NCAA selection committee. At don't come out until March 5 and we still have three present.. Tlw ll'ish E~·e's sectional matchups l'OI.J)d big games to play." hypothetically look something like this: 
So much for the coaches, but the fans interested in the East:
this sort of thing may need from now until March 5 just to figure out the mechanics of this year's tour· 
at Penn 
ney. 

LaSalle vs. at large <possibly Providence or HolyWith the field expanded to 32 teams this season, the 
Crossl
question of who'll play who, where, when and in what Pennsylvania vs. at large (possibly Rutgers or St.

timl' zone may prove to be more than a difficult mid­.John's or 1-'ordham l ­term exam for this semester's Advanced Computer at Davidson

Programming class. The possible combinations are l'ndless. Maryland <or whoever wins the wacky ACC tour­Anyway. this is how the tournament is designed to nament) vs. at large (Pitt or Syracuse) function: Furman vs. at large the Mideast: EAST 
at Alabama at University of Pennsylvania 1\lAC winner <tossup between Central Michigan,ECC winner vs. At large Bowling Green, Miami, Western Michigan andIvy League winner vs. At large Toll:'do l vs. at large Marquette at Davidson Alabama vs. at large South Carolina

ACC winner vs. At large Southern Conference winner vs. At large at .KPntucky <Winners to Providence regional) Indiana vs. at large Memphis State Middle Tl•nnessee vs. at large NC-State(second place MIDEAST ACCl at Tuscaloosa, Alabama the Midwest: Mid-American winner vs. At large 
at Texas TechSEC winner vs. At large TPxas A&M vs. at large Notre Dameat Kentucky At large Kentucky (second place SECl vs. ArizonaBig Ten winner vs. At large <second place WAClOhio Valley winner vs. At large at Oral Roberts

<Winners to Dayton regionall Louisville vs. at large Oral Roberts MIDWEST Kansas or Kansas St. vs. at large Oregon State or at Texas Tech l!SC SWC winner vs. At large 
the West

At large vs. At large at Oral Roberts at Arizona State MVC winner vs. At large 
Arizona State vs. at large Purdue (second place Big Big Eight winner vs. At large 
Tl·nl
<Winners to New Mexico State Regjonall Nl'vada Las Vegas vs. at large Creighton 

~· 

• ., at Washington
WEST A l!CLA vs. at large Utah Stateat Arizona State Montana vs. at large San Francisco

WAC winner vs. At large WCAC winner vs. At large 

Two other hopefuls to consider have to be Newat Washington 1\ll:'xico State <second place MVC> and Cincinnati.
Pac-8 winner vs. At large Of course this is all, at the very most, speculation, Big Sky winner vs. At large and knowing the way the NCAA operates anything<Winners to Portland regional) 

could happen. There are still some very close con­The winner of each regional then journeys to San ference races to be decided. But for now The Irish Diego for the championship. Eye prediction is as listed above. 
The match-ups do indeed seem cut and dried until It's just a hunch that the Irish will get a Midwest at one realizes that this year the second place finishers large bid. Chances are Notre Dame won't be in the froma conference are eligible for an at-large bid in a same bracket as Indiana, and there are more section different from the one of the conference typically mid~astern teams to accommodate. winner. Also, excepting the East, independents can otherwise, the Irish, now 16-7 are a shoe-in to get a virtually go anywhere. All this may come across as a bid. With the schedule they play, the TV appeal and tad confusing, but nonetheless the makeup of the the sl'cond leading scorer in the nation, Digger playoff system this season, could make the NCAA Phelps won't let the NCAA look past Notre Dame. Of tournament the most exciting and well-balanced in course the Irish can't look past DePaul, Fordham or years. Dayton either. 
kind of injury or sickness does shows leadership but on this team affect your game. You loose your the role isn't as big. Everybody's timing, but gradually you can get it grown-up, you don't have to back with practice." babysit.". 
Evaluating his play now, the The 6-Q standout from Pittsburgh three time starter doesn't feel his is confident that he'll get another play is completely up to par. chance at the NCAA's this year, "Being a senior guard, I'm really "Right now, we've beaten some of not satisfied with my scoring, but the top teams, but we face a tough overall I'm really not dissatisfied. game this week on the road against I'm getting my stats and assists De Paul. A lot of people say we up. I would like to be playing a don't play well on the road, which little better going into the is true to an extent because we face playoffs." these top teams. If we can win this 
Dwight does see the Irish as game. things will work out when jelling into a more varied attack the bids come out next week." 
•with the progress of the young His more long range plans do not players. "We've come a long way discount the possibility of playing from a six man team to a ten man pro basketball. "I'm definitely team. _Everybody's now hav~ng thinking about playing. Anybody the confidence to. s~oot and driVe in love with the game, who plays it ~·1th the ball. Its Important that four hours a day. wants to. If that :.ou can come back fresh mto the doesn't work out. I've had some job gam~. Person~lly, ~s l,ong as ~·m offers in D.C. that I might take or 
playmg ... startmg 1sn t so 1m-maybe graduate school." 
Whatever his future, Clay has
port~nt. . . 
.He s particularly Impressed by plenty to look back on. In 1973 his h1s b~~kcou~t t~al!lmates. fresh-
last minute foul shots were the men Duck \\ 1lhams and Jeff difference against Ohio State and Carpenter. "I. think t~~y're Pittsburgh. That same year he 
commg rather qmckly. W1lhams wrecked Marquette's 81 game 
and Carpenter are a lot more homl' streak with a corner jump advance~ than when I w~s a fresh­shot. And. of course, last season he man. Its not that they re young sll'W llCLA and their 88-game anymore. Maybe mage and class winning skein on another now they ~re. but on the floor they're immortal jumper. 
With three more regular seasonexpenenced guards. They can 
games and the tournament
take the challenge of playing with 
possibilities, Irish coach Diggerth~sb~::;;~~-c~~:~~na~~ ~~~~~~ior Phelps should rest a little easier 
with Peter Crotty, he doesn't feel knowing that his "Ice" is still on any added responsibility with the ice. ~·outhful Irish either. "The captain 

SMC trounces Bethel 
six points in addition to her seven 
St. Mary's basketball squad steals. stretched its winning streak to 3-Q Coach Ed Merrion was· pleased Tuesday evening as they with the performance of the entire resoundingly defeated nearby squad. "Everyone came off the Bethel College, 75-31. bench, and almost everyone 
Kathy Maddox sparked the scored. I was mainly pleased with victors with a game high 12 points, the shooting percentage, the depth while teammates Pee Wee Lamb on the team and the team work." and Karen Crane contributed 10 Heferring to the upcoming points apiece. rematch against Notre Dame, 
SMC's game plan called for fast Merrion expressed thr belief that breaks, moving the ball quickly the team can continue their per­into Crane, the starting center. formance. Guard Kathy Clapp, strong both The ND-SMC game will be held defensively and offensively, was a this Saturday, February 22, in the big factor in the strategy, scoring pit at the A.C.C. at 2:00 p.m. 
Skiers 2nd,4th i_n Cup 
The Notre Dame ski team performance to finish tenth. traveled East to the Ohio Gover­Three excellent performances nors Cup Winter Carnival last by Sarah Bartzen paced the weekend, the men coming away women skiers to their second-place 
with a fourth place finish out of finishes in the slalom and giant eight teams in the slalom and giant slalom events. Bartzen won the slalom events, and the women slalom competition and placed placing second in those events in a second in the giant slalom and the field of five teams. bikini race. Sophomore Joan 
In the slalom event, sophomore Gambee took third place in the Steve L'Heureux captured third bikini race. while Ann Hawkins place in the 54-man field, while finished an amazing 7th in that captain Stan Ripcho finished 15th. competition with a broken leg in a Junior Ed Byrne was the top cast. 
finisher for the Irish in the giant Two weeks from now, on March slalom event, taking sixth place, 1st and 2nd, the skiers are slated to while L'Heureux had another fine compete in the MCSA regionals. 
.. ' ~~~~~~· ¥ 
\ 
. ~ . ' 
SARAH BARTZ EN captured first place in the slalom last weekend at the Ohio Governor's Cup competition. 








