-----~--­
------------~ -------­


Burtchaell testimony 

Private colleges help 
by Barbara Breitenstein subsidize the education of those members of Starr Reporter the public who attend independent colleges .and universities," Burtchaell admitted, 

Speaking before a Congressional com­"but they could never do so on grounds of mittee, University Provost Fr. James T. t'conomy, for it saves the taxpayers money Burtchaell, C.S.C., reported ' yesterday to help them attend these schools." that indep~ndent colleges and universities Burtchaell went on to say that these types 
are delivering higher education for the of institutions are, in effect, "subsidizing the public at much less cost to the government federal budget, which is no mean public and to the taxpayers than those run by the service.'' states. 
Therefore, he suggested that "aid 

Father Burtchaell, presenting his programs which help members ·of the statement to the House Subcommittee on American citizenry to obtain their education Postseconday education as the re_pres~nt­in independent colleges and universities are tative of the College and Urnversrty_ sound policy and sound economy." Department of the National Catholic On this note, Brutchaell presented six I<:ducational Association cited comparative recommendations to the committee. Thesf' 
figures of cost form an unspecified mid­mclude the "authorization of institutional
These USC tickets maY be valuable this The university can also withhold tickets 
western state. aid in the form of cost-{)f-mstructionweek, but they cannot legally be resold. from people thought to be scalpers. 
"This contrast is borne out," Brtchaell payments," the rejection of any weakening stated, "if we compare the true costs per of the Basic Educational Opportunity Grant I<'TE student at all state universities and program. aughorization of a program "to colleges in this state: $3,021 per annum in encourage the states to fund higher
Scalping said illegal 
that year <fiscal 1973-74). The comparable education through aiding students, and not costs in the average independent school, in simply institutions," and a continuence of that state, were $2,782 m the same year." the National Direct StudentLoan pro~ram.
University any more.
by Jim Commyn "It is plain," Burtchaell concluded, "that,Faccenda cited one instance where a

Starr Beporter Arguing that independent coll_eges ~re whether they be for profitor not for profit,faculty member was printing and selling "institutions founded for the pubhc service whatever their fundin~. whatever theirduplicate tickets to football games several and for the education of the people," Burt­governance, these are all institutions thatyears ago. The individual was caught and
Notre Dame football tickets may be sold chaell suggested the federal government serve the people's welfare. All are for thehas not received tickets since. "The
only at authorized ticket windows said should assign money to finance students at peop; e. And <independent> colleges andUniversity, if they discover any person
Hobert Dahill, business director of athletics. these universities from the tax purse. 
universities are in the public device and cost misusing his privilege will take action

Sale or resale of tickets in any other fashion "The taxpayers may indeed hesitate to
continued on page 7 the government much less."
is illegal. 
Despite this fact, scalpers are asking $25 to $30 for USC football tickets. However those interested in purchasing tickets are willing to pay only $15 to $20. In a telephone 
Energy ~neeting explores new sources 
survey Monday evening, one student said that his parents had purchased game tickets for $5:! a pair. Another source said that one l'aller offered to sell him student tickets for by Phil Cuckley students as guinea pigs. for the present dilemma, stating that "we $50 each. A third source claimed that "his Starr Reporter He spoke briefly on the concept of 
are the cause" of it. He also said that we 

next door neighbor had purchased tickets economic ecology, that the economy is must be that solution to our problem.from a football player at $30 each." subject to the same sort of batural balance One immediate means of approaching a St. .Joseph County Deputy Prosecutor The first session of the Energy Conference as the environment. He said that the energy 
solution would be a re-{)rdering of gover­George Herendeen pointed out that South held last night focused on alternative forms crisis was upsetting that balance, and that nment priorities on energy, according to lknd does not have a criminal law against of energy, especially solar and wind power, "everyone should pull an oar" to help solve O'Connor. He said that nuclear power and ticket scalping, as does Chicago, but stated and alternative modes of life. our national problems. 

coal are the number one and two priorities,that scalping tickets is a civil offense. The conference is a three day series ol Hollis offered the utilization of methane respectively, in the government today.

University Counsel, Philip Faccenda, speakers dealing with the topic "Positive, gas as a partial means of meeting He called for more government support of l'larified the situation. "The University Pratical Approaches to the Energy Crisis," America's energy needs. He enumerated alternative sources of energy, includingissues all tickets as revocable license," and is being sponsored by the Student Union several of methane's advantages and solar, geothermal and nethane. 
fo'accenda said' "which means that the Academic Commisision. disadvantages as a fuel. 
In referring to methane gas, which is 

1 ickets are permits to attend an athletic Last night's program included Cal Hollis, O'Connor spoke next, prefacing his produced from decaying animal waste, he Pvent. The University has the right to president of Economic I<:eology, Inc., comments by giving a short capsulation of 
added "If you beat the crap out of USC this withhold the tickets from anyone who it speaking on "Economic Ecology"; J. Kevin America's energy needs and the various weekend, save it and recycle it." 

feels has abused this permit privilege." O'Connor, manager of the University of means available to meet those needs. 
After presenting this background,

fo'accenda also explained that since the Delaw9re Solar I Institute of Energy He said the present U.S. consumption of O'Connor described the Solar I project, of 
University is really granting the ticket Conversion, on "Solar Energy"; and Dr. energy is equal to 36 million barrels of oil which he is manager. He utilized a number holder a license, it also has the power to Tyrone Cashman, of the New Alchemy per day. The consumption projected for the of slides illustrating the processes involved revoke the license. The University Institute, on "Win.d Energy": . year 2000 is around 90 million barrels of oil 
in the operation of this solar house. currently has two methods of enforcing its, Joe Bu~y, ~ssocr~t~ co~misswner of the per day. While dealing wi.lh the technical details of policy against ticket scalping. A_cad.emic ( ommiSSion, mtr?duced last O'Connor outlined a number of methods of 
the operation of the solar energy heating

It has the ability to impose a $25 fine on mght s speakers to an . audrence. of 50 meeting these projections, including con­unit, he emphasized "you don't have to be a 
any student who transfers his student ticket stude~ts and faculty. Hollis spoke first and ventional fuels, such as coal and oil, and mechanical or chemical engineer" to know to anyone else in any fashion. explai~ed ~he purpose of the conference. alternative energy sources, such as solar, 
how it works. 

In the case of other reserved seat tickets Hollis said one reason for the conference wind and geothermal power. But he said The Solar I unit utilized cadmium-sulfide 
also called general admission ti~kets, th~ was to "field-test:: . the w.illi~,gn~ss of that even with the availability of nuclear solar cells to capture the sun's energy,University is permitted to confiscate the students to have a rap session With ex­power it may be impossible to close the which is then converted to electricity and tickets. In addition the ticket holder loses perts on the matter of energy. He stressed, energy gap. 
heat.. Hot air is used as the means of 

his right to receive tickets from the however, that he did not consider the O'Connor warned against blaming others rcontinued on page 7 
Honors president 
SMC given holiday on Monday 
by Tt>rry Kerley cancel classes Monday. and 
The Vice President also stressed that 
Mary Janca Notre Dame and St. Mary's are discussing a tentative calendar which will cover the next three to five years. 
St. Mary's College President Dr. John M. "This would enable planning for social, 
Dug~an has cancelled all classes for academic, and sports events to progress Students on Monday, October 27th. Ac­much more smothly," he commented. t·ording to Vice President of Academic Despite the cancellation of all St. Mary's 
Affairs. Dr. William Hickey, the president classes Monday, school policy dictates, that originally planned to declare a SMC students are responsible for attending "Presidential Holiday" sometime during any Notre IDame cases' taken under the 
the first semester "to repay the students co-exchange program. and faculty for the kindness extended him Student reaction to the three-day weekend during his inauguration." 
is unanimously favorable. "It's ,'terrific, it's well-deserved," one 
However, after Duggan realized how long student commented. "We've worked hard and ~trenuous the fall semester was to and need the time off. The calendar, as l)ecome, he proposed before the Faculty planned is too long with a break, and there is ~ssembly last week, that the day off be too much pressure." 
granted. "At least we're getting one day's break to Hickey noted that the facultv was "ex­make up for no October break at all," noted 

tremely receptive" to thE proposal. Faculty another student. "Things are just building A group of pro-lifers demonstrated against 1 nounced preside~tial candidate. (See story members were then instructed to inform up to much, everyone is out-{)f-sorts, and Sen. Birch Bayh's abortion stance in front of on page 2. (Photo by Chris Smith) their classes in writhing of the decision to we need to let the pressure off." the ACC last night. Bayn is now an an-

Wednesday, October 22, 1975
the observer 




warld briefs 
SANTA BARBARA. Calif. <AP)-Two men charged with plotting to assassinate President Ford "just hated him," the detective who interrogated them said Tuesday. 
Gary Steven DeSure, 32, of Warm Springs, Mont., and Preston Michael Mayo, 34, of Warren ounty, Va., were indicted by federal grand jury in Los Angeles on Monday and face arraignment Oct. 28 on charges of conspiracy to assassinate the President. 
"They just hated him. He was for the rich and they were for the poor," Santa Barbara police detective Robert Zapata said. 
MADRID, Spain <AP)-Generalissimo Francsco Franco, Spain's ruler since the country was torn by the 1936-39 civil war, suffered "an acute coronary crisis" Tuesday, setting off rumors that a transferof power toPrinceJuan Carlos de Borbon was imminent. 
A government announcement said Franco was recovering from a heart attack but declined to go into details. 
CHICAGO <AP) -Agriculture Secretary EarlButz on Tuesday characterized the long-term grain agreement with the Soviet Union as a good deal for all concerned -farmers, consumers, Japanese and the free enterprise system. 
The agreement announced Monday "will tend to even out grain purchases" and help level off widely fluctuating farm prices, Butz said at a news conference. "I think this is a good deal." 

an campus taday 
12:15 
5:15 pm --­7:30pm, 
9:30 pm -­8:00pm -­
8:00pm & 
seminar, "interferon -its production & protection in rhinovirus infrection" by dr. george g. jackson, prof. of medicine, abraham lincoln school of medicien, chicago, rm. 278, galvin life science ctr. aud. 
ves~ters, evensong vespers, log chapel. 
film, barbara streisand film festival, o'laughlin aud. 
energy conservation festival, "human energy" by dr. herr·ell degraff, former babcock prof. of food economics, cornell univ., & "reclaimed resources" by dr. james albert, director, national ctr. for resource recovery, washington d.c., washington hall. 
10:00 pm --film, "smiles of a summer night" in eng. aud., tickets 
$1. 
8:15pm--concert, louis sudler, baritone and patrick maloney, tenor.• library aud. 

Troops foiled in attempt to rescue I.R.A. hostage 
MONASTEREVIN, Ireland (APl -Heavily armed troops and police tried to rescue a Dutch industrialist from his kidnapers by storming a house in this sleepy market town Tuesday. But the abductors held authorities at bay by threatening to "blow his head off," police said. 
"All communications we've had to date indicate they're not about to surrender," a police spokesman said. 
The kidnapers, believed to be lrish Republican Army guer­rillas Eddie Gallagher and Marion Coyle, seized Tiede Herrema 18 days ago, demand­ing that the Irish government release three other IRA mem­bers from jail. They repeated those demands Tuesday. 
A squad of troopers smashed down the front door of the two­story house 40 miles west of Dublin and police officers led by Supt. John Fleming of Dub­lin's special branch force charged in, a police spokesman said. 
The kidnapers Hred five shots at the assault group but no one was hit, police reported. The assault team did not fire back. 
The kidnapers retreated to an upstairs bedroom holding a gun to Herrema 's head. 
A short while later, a man who appeared to be the 26-year­old Gallagher shoved Herrema up to a wmdow of the house and jammed a pistol against his head and yelled: "He's a dead man if you try anything!" 
Police officers at the scene 
said Gallagher later shouted 
that he had tied explosives to 
himself and would blow up the 
house if security forces tried to 
rescue the 53-year-old Her­
rema. 
"We're negotiating with the kidnapers for Herrema's re­lease, but it's very touchy," a police spokesman reported. 
He said Gallagher is sticking to the demands he made when Herrema, managing director of the Dutch-owned Ferenka Steel 
, ;-r P'"" I.,. 

Co., was grabbed Oct. 3 on his 
way home from the Limerick 
plant. He wants the release of 
an English heiress-turned-revo­
lutionary, Dr. Bridget Rose 
Dugdale, and IRA leader Kevin 
Mallon and gunman Jim Hy­
land. Gallagher is believed to 
be the father of a baby born to 
Miss Dugdale in prison. The 
Irish government has refused 
all along to free the trio and 
showed no sign Tuesday of 
backing down. 

The Irish cabinet held an 
emergency meeting, but issued 
no statement. However, govern­
ment sources reported: "There 
is no change from our policy of 
making no deals with these 
people." 

At least 300 armed officers 
ringed the house. Fleming and 
his squad occupied the ground 
floor and police and army 
marksmen moved into first­
floor rooms in neighboring 
houses. Two armored cars were 
behind the house. 

Congress delays action onpapers 
WASHINGTON <AP) -The 
House intelligence committe~ 
voted 8 to 5 today to postpone 
taking any action on Secretary 
of State Henry A. Kissinger's 
refusal to turn over a sub­
poeaned memorandum said to 
be critical of U.S. actions dur­
ing the 1974 Cyprus crisis. 

The committee voted to wait 
until Nov. 3 after Kissinger ap­
pears before the panel to testify 
about the memorandum and 
other criticism and advice he 
got during the Cyprus crisis. 
Kissinger's testimony is sched­
uled for Oct. 30-31. 

Chairman Otis G. Pike, D­
N.Y., said he was among the 
five who believed the com­
mittee should press without de· 
lay for full House backing for 
the committee's right to en­
force its subpoenas. 

Bayh enters White House race 
INDIANAPOLIS <AP) -Sen. in October 1971, when his wife, 
Birch Bayh threw his Indiana Marvella, underwent surgery 
down-on-the-farm liberalism for breast cancer. She has 
into the race for the 1976 Demo­
since recovered. 

cratic presidential nomination Earlier, at his family farm in 
Tuesday, promising leadership the western Indiana community 
of compassion, trust and posi­of Shirkieville, Bayh told a 
tive thinking. throng of about 1,000 persons he 
never had a burning desire to 

His voice strained noticeably be president. 
by laryngitis, Bayh, 47, told an "I felt closer to God and 
overflowing, shoulder-to-shoul­more fulfilled here in the fields 
der crowd of about 2,500 in the than anywhere else in my life," 
Indiana House of Representa­he said, but then added, "I get 
tives he was embarking on his angry when I see it <the coun­
second presidential campaign try l operating on only half of a 
"to restore moral leadership in cylinder." It is time, he said, 
the White House." "to restore our collective ca­
His first try never reached pacity to dream." 
the official stage. He withdrew At a noon luncheon in In-
An 'urban experience' 
CCUM offers Xmas course 
by Mary Mungovan 
Staff Reporter 

Interested students can visit social action centers in major American cities and receive course credit, Father Tom Stella, director of Volunteer Svices, an­nounced. 
The Undergraduate Committee for Theology and Religious Sudies will offer the one-credit course "Religion and the Urban Ex­perience" over Christmas break in cooperation with the Catholic Committee on Urban Ministry (CCUMl. 
''The purpose of this course is to expose students to the problems and the people of the city and put them in contact with those dedicated to solving them," Stella explained. 
Groups of four to six students will "live-in" for a 48-hour period with CCUM members in the parish or secular organization they are observing. No prerequisites are necessary, but student will be required to keep a journal and at­tend briefing sessons before and after break. Students can visit centers in Pittsburgh, Houston, Washington D.C., Chicago, New York, Boston, San Francisco and others. 
CCUM, founded in 1967 by chairman Monsignor John J.

· Egan, is holding a national con­ference in campus starting Sun­day. "While the members are already here for the conference," Stella stated, "Students taking the course will be able to meet and make arrangements with the members they'll be visiting." 
CCUM is a national network of over 3,000 rpiests, brothers, sisters and laity working on prisons, housing programs, drug clinics, hospitsls, legislatures, inner-cities, and various school and community projects. 
"Many Notre Dame students are interested in solving human 

( * The 0 bserver l 
Night Editor: Timmy O'Reiley Assistant Night Editor: Chris Smith Day Editor: Marianne Schulte Copy Reader: Gregg B. Bangs Sports: Fred Herbst, Bob Brink Typists: Mary Setlock, Neil (lronmanl Viii, Mel Celeste Compugraphic: John Kuhn Night Controller: Bob Steinmetz 

lAd layout: Pat Russell 
) 
1 he Observer os publoshed Monday through Froday and weekly durong the summer session. except durong exams Mod vacation periods The Observer os publoshed by the students of the Univ of Notre Dame and 51 Mary's College 5ubscript•ons may be purchased for 10 dollars per semester 1IB dollars per year I from The Ob se•ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, In 
'(Joana. 46556. Second Class postage paid. Notre Dame. 1 N 46556 
problems,;, he commented, "but people here have a special obligation because they're more privilieged." 
The course was developed by Fr. Stella,\professor!Jay P. and Pa­tricia Dolan and professor Basil 0 'Leary. Egan explained hov. the course originated. 
"CCUM comes from all over. Notre Dame students come from all over. So last year CILA asked for a bridge for students in­terested in social ministry." Last year. approximately thirty st­udents participated. 
Rick Flores, one of last year's participants, reflected on his experience: 
"I was one of three students who 
went to Houston. We met a VISTA 
welfare lawyer who really cared 
about social justice and we also 
met the people, trapped by the city 


AT JORDAN FORD 
dianapolis for organized labor and party workers, Bayh in­toned, "A cow should never for­get how it was when she was a calf. I don't intend to change but I intend to change the coun~ try." 
At a news conference after the announcement, Bayh said he foresaw no problem unifying a factionalized Democratic par­ty that now has nine announced presidential candidates but no clear front-runner. 
"As I travel around this country, I find people who were for Humphrey, McGovern and Wallace," he said. "They're all out of work and they want a new president. 
"Coming from a state like In­diana, as large as it is and as diverse as it is, I think I have an excellent understanding of what America is all about." 
The Hoosier setting for the long-expected announcement made before a contingent of th~ nation's top political reporters, was a showcase for Bayh's Midwestern background and his success as a liberal in a con­servative state. 
Bayh grew up in Shirkieville, a strip-mining and farming community of about 40 persons two miles from the Illinois state line. The town prepared a huge reception, including road si'gns scattered along the 10­mile. route the Bayh caravan took from Terre Haute. 
Bayh spent 30 minutes work­ing his way through friends neighbors and well-wishers to ~ tent erected just behind a barn on the family farm. The rural flavor was accentuated by an occasional cow bell in the back­ground and hand-made signs­one proclaiming "From the Farm House to the White 
-
~-~ 

Wednesday, October 22, 1975 the observer 
Broader counseling services now available 
by Sut• <'arey Staff Hl'porter 

In its offices on the fourth floor of the Administration Building, the Notre Dame Counseling Center offers educational-vocational and personal-social guidance for in­dividuals and groups. 
''WP're relevant to everybody, not just people with problems," asserted Dr. Sheridan McCabe, Director of the center. "A lot of people think about counseling in a nanow way. We tend to do that." 
McCabe noted counseling used to assunw that someone had a problem, and then attempt ot remedy it. The Notre Dame center. on the other hand, is primarily concerned with problem prevention and personality development. "We work with our 
· clients to make them more ef­fective in general, and to help them keep from having problems," McCabe explained. The Counseling Center also serves as a source of training and consultation. "Often an R.A. comes in asking for advice on how to deal with the people living in his section." McCabe observed. "Most of the H.A. seminars have also asked us to give a class presentation." · About half of the students who 

contact the Counseling Center want help for educational or vocational problems. "As a faculty member I have observed a Jot more academic pressure this year than in the past," McCabe 
affirmed.  "It  is  usually  self­ 
imposed.  though,  and  comes  
primarily  from  the  present  

economic conditions." 
McCabe noted less academic pressure when he first came to Notre Dame in the late 1960's. "In those days, the thing was ac­tivism." he observed. "We have come a long way from that. I still hear some social justice concerns t•xpressed. but academics are the big concern now.'' 
Economy, politics discussed 
Chilean experience revie'Wed 
in the government fell apart.

Tlw political and economic 
Concerning Chile's military,

<'Xpt•ril•nce of Chile was the main 
Francis declared that ,ij is a 

topic of a panel discuss!on given by 
,structure with a feeling of till' Institute for International professionalism. "The military Studil's last night before fifty lwlieves that they are an effective pPopll' at thl' Arl•a Studies Heading agency of force," he revealed. l{oom of the Mt'morial Lihr::~rv "They have a selective use of 
1\lemhers of the panel were violence. Also they have a strong 1\1 iehal'l .1. fo'rancis. professor of belief in economics." govern.m ent : Charles K. Wilbur, ehairman of the department of "Rut most importantly," he N'onom ics: Fr. Cia ude eontinued. "the military has the 
l'onH•rleau. professor of govern­1mage of a messiah. They have a ml'nt. and Kenneth Jameson, theology toward concepts of professor of t•conom ics. restoration of thegovernment and its salvation."
Francis. commenting on Chile's 
historical background, cited Summing up the evolution of rl'forrn as a major movement in Chile's reform. Francis mentioned thl' mid-19fiO'd. "From 1964-70, that the military controls all in­('bile experienced a moderate formation and education. Strict n•forrn." he said. There were censorship exists and no one is programs of land redistribution, of allowed to talk about the junta. ll'vying taxes, and of housing." Finally. Francis stated the 
llowever. the government had military believes "the country difficulties in organizing their does not need elections.11 pfforts," hl' said. Francis emphasized the Ht'\'olution Through Frt>t>dom programs of Salvador Allende as !wing instrumental tothe reform of Professor Wilbur contended the ('bile. "Allende's programs," quest for freedom earmarked the Franeis said, "provided for the reform of Chile. "Allende, he said, nationalization of copper eompan-"wanted a socialist society. The ies . government control of banks, pl:'ople believed that freedom was spl'l•ding agrarian reform. But the the way. As a result, they major accomplishment by Allende demanded thatAllende must go." was till' rl'distribution of income. 11 Wilbur statt>d that once the in-A eharacteristic of Allende's eoml' was redistributed, the lower ('bile was an anti-Ailende class could buy whatever goods Jnoveml•nt according to fo'rancis. thl'y wanted just like the middle 
"AIthough freedom of speech class. "Now the lot become . pn•vciiled. the l<'levision station -;carce." he said. "Naturally, the opl•I·ated by .the Catholic un!versi,t,Y group losing the privilege of 
spn•a? an.ti-Ailende feelings, having abundant goods is going to fo ran<'IS said. object to the situation." "However. Allende did not en-, h f II d ht 
force laws sometimes. Therefore, . "r e.re ~;e. A en. e was ca.ug 
thl• t•conomy became a bat-m a bmd.. Francis em~hasized. tleground. Chl<'fly the right wing "AIIe_nde d1d n?t want to giv.e to the versus the left wing. There was lowei class WI~hout r~ducmg the always someone who wanted to wealth of the middle. Smce ~llende 
wipl' out the money interest,'' coul~ not control th.e left ~~~~· .. he Francis explained. d1dn t know what Side to . II<• further stated that Allende 
( 'buiTh and Statt' Ht>lations

goverrwd a coalition "that wasn't too cooperative." He added there 
l''r. Pomerleau described the

was no cohesion or no bargaining 
Catholic Church in Chile as being

power. As a result, many groups "moderate and conservative." However. he added that some 
individuals intheChurch wanted a radical change. "Yet I believe this conflict is 

New mystery 
in Oswald case 
very deceptive," said Pomerleau. ''The church is for socialism. Thus WASIIINGTON tAP> -A top 

there is a deep institutional

FBI official testified today that problem." 
Pomerleau spoke of church and 
state relations in the past. "In the 
1920's," he said, "the church was a 
fused entity. Her institutional 
identity was with the government. 
The Church could not move any 
resources because it is under state 
control." He said that in order for 
one to he a citizen of Chile, he must 
have been a Catholic. 
"But in 1925," he continued, 
"there was a separation of church 
and state. By 1964, the 
church moves in with the govern­
menl. In fact, the .church becomes 
a means of dialogue of the 
Christian Democrat Party." 
According to Pomerleau, as the 
Church separated, it developed as 
an institution to help the poor· "In 
1973, the.govern~e~t destroyed the 
labor umon t~ ehmmate part of the 
lower class,' he added. 
Economics in Chilt' Today 
Professor Jameson discussed 
the problems in the Chilean 
economy today. "There are 
several problems in the economy 
of Chile,'' he remarked. "The 
country must figure out how to get 
investment to accumulate, what to 
do with its image amongst other 
nations, what to do with wage 
goods with income distribution, 
and finally what to do with the elite 
structure." 
Jameson said Chile is striving 
for a "social economy market" --a 
return to the free market. 
Jameson related the poicies of 
thi:; change to the free market 
system. "It emphasizes free 
foreign exchange, a removal of 
price controls, wages being set by 
the market. moving the govern­
ment out of control, and making 
harsh decisions by letting wage goods go up in price," he said. 
However. Jameson listed 
problems to this change. Hecon­
tended that inflation has dropped, 
unemployment has risen to a rate 
of approximately 20 percent, goods 
cannot be returned to the private 
sector of the economy, and there 
exist difficulties with their 
foreign loan renewals. 
"Will these problems continue?" 
he asked. "Yes and no. The ques­
tion is how long will it last. If it 
succeeds, with the present policies, 
the question is will the system 
work,'' he concluded. 
investigators have been unable to determine who ordered the destruction of a threatening note which Lee Harvey Oswald 
RIVER BEND PUB 
delivered to the Dallas FBI of­
441 E. LA SALLE AT NILES AVE.
fice a few days before the as­sassination of President John fo' Kl•nnedy in November 1963. 


LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
The cover-up of the Oswald visit and destruction of the note 

MONDAY THRU SATURDAY 
was wrong and violated FBI rules, Deputy Associate FBI Di­
(ND STUDENTS PERFORMING.)
rector James B. Adams said. He reported on the FBI's inter­nal probe of the incident in tes­timony before a House 


FEATURING 24 OZ. DRAFT 
.Judiciary subcommittee. 
Adams said that investigators 



$.60

could not pin down whether FBI officials in Washington at 
-WATCH FOR OUR HALLOWEEN
the time knew about the Os­wald note and the destruction 
SPECIAL COMING SOON-
of it. 
McCabe noted fewer Freshmen seek help from the Counseling Center than do upperclassmen, not because they have fewer academic problems, b,ut because the Fresh­man Year of Studies has such a large staff itself. 
The Center attracts more premed majors than any others, according to McCabe. "But they're usually here to examine career options, rather than because of academic pressures," he said. 
A large part of the counseling center's work is with personal and social problems. "Actually Pverything we do here has a bearing on the social aspect," McCabe declared, noting that one of the most beneficial aspects of the center's workshops is the chance for social interaction. 
"We don't have many op­portunities on this campus for communication. particularly 'between men and women, without commitment," McCabe asserted. 
In past years the Counseling Center has run Male-Female Communications workshops, but these programs have failed to attract wide interest. "The groups themselves were very effective, but getting people, particularly women. to join them was very difficult," McCabe asserted. 
The center has abandoned these workshops, but McCabe expressed 
, ihope that informal discussion 
· groups, such as one organized last year by Grace, r.reen-Phillips and fo'arley Halls, ~.light allow for greater communication. The counselors have worked with faculty members and teaching assistants in the past, dealing with such topics as strategies for improving classroom discussions. 
The Counseling Center deals with many more students now than it did even five years ago, according to McCabe. "We don't have more actual clients, but we cantact more students through our OUTREACH program of workshops and group presen­tations." he explained. '"I wouldn't suggest that our business is up because there are more problems, 
but rather because we are better 
known now and we have expanded 
out programs." 
Presently in its ninth year, the 
Counseling Center is planning to 
continue many of its programs 
from previous years. 
Assertive Training Workshops teach people to stand up for their I'jghts, without being aggressive. "Students tend to be docile," McCabe asserted. "We're acting on the principle that good. creative citizenship requires a certain amount of assertiveness." 
Life-Planning Workshops are another important branch of the c1•nter's activities. Several hour­long sessions give people the op­portunity to explore with each other their personal values and talents. "These are not job­oriented, but live-oriented. The participants learn to develop a short and long-range plan of how they are going to live," McCabe explained. 
Anxiety Management Training Programs are designed to help recognize and cope with the aspects of the environment which cause anxiety, according to McCabe. A specific Test Anxiety Program offers techniques . for preparing' and taking exams. 
A new addition this year is a project for people returning from the Sophomore Year Abroad Program. "We will explore what it is like to try to fit back into Notre 
Dame1, and to translate the year's 
l'Xperiences into cognitive lear­
ning," McCabe observed. 
The Counseling Center's dealings are always held in strict confidence. "Whatever we do is regarded with a great deal of respect for confidentiality," McCabe asserted, explaining that the center's records can be released only by written request of the student himself. 
From client feedback. and the 
counselors' own observations of 
progress, McCabe feels that the 
center is very effective. "Our 
overall feedback has been very 
good,'' he noted. "Unlike most 
businesses, if our customers come 
back. we aren't being very suc­
cessful." 
Representative 
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
to be on campus 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3 Graduate study information -all fields of Letters, Arts& Sciences Special emphasis on Social Sciences 
Contact Placement Bureav 283 -6255 
~~ER~mri:~ 

iihm 
~EStiVHh 
OCT. 19-24 
WED -'The Silence' 
8 & 10 
FRI -'Cries & Whispers' 

7 &10 
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM 

ADMISSION $1 
CINEMA 76 
-----~----­
--------------------------------------------------------~-­


s ing-a-Iong ju n k !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


The Observer 
on independent student newspaper 
Brainwashed 
Foundt>d November 3, 1966 

-joe gill
Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief 


Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Manager 
Have you ever tried to go up to the 14th floor of the Memorial 
EDITORIAL BOARD , 

Library and found yourself stopped, either by a security guard or a 
thick, massive door?

AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Ed:torial Editor-; 
Kl'n Girr.uard, Nt>ws Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Marys Editor, 
Have you ever wondered just what it was that was so secretive 
Ken ·Bradford, Copy Editor; Bi 11 Brink, Sports Editor; Tom 0' NeiL Features Editor; 
and mysterious about this obstruction, that blocks what is probably 
Chris Smith, Photo Editor 

the best view on campus? ~--------------E_d_it_o._i•_l•_•_~_l_~__I______~N~~~w~•-29~J~I~7~1S~------,~B~u~•'"~·~n~l8~l~7~~~71---------------1 
In the true spirit of newspaper reporting, I have found the an­Wednesday, October 22, 1975: 
swer. 

Saturday night, when the wind was howling and the rain was drizzling in through the holes in my window pane, I must~red up all my investigative courage and slowly crept up the statrs to the fourteenth floor. The sound of my footsteps echoed in the hallway, and I shivered in the cold. Those echoes were like lonely voices, telling me to turn back, and I almost did. Suddenly, at the top of the stairs, I heard voices, and noticed that the door was ajar. 
I walked slowly up the stairs, and with one last prayer to St. Jude, I opened the door. 
The sight that met my eyes was ghostly. The room was immense, and old curtains decorated with dust hung over the windows. In the darkness, I perceived a number of wooden tables and chairs on a dingy rug. The whole atmosphere was eerie and frightening. 
What immediately caught my attention, though, was that the entire room was lit by only one small light bulb, and very dim at that. 
Around this light stood four upperclassmen all wearing Notre Dame buttons, jackets, sweaters, and hats. In the background, playing very softly on a beat-up old phonograph, was the Notre Dame fight song. 
I began to move closer when a voice behind me said harshly "Alright, you, go to the end of the line like the rest of them." 
Using my wits for the first time in my entire life, I quickly said "I'm the new man here to relieve the Security guard." He looked at me suspiciously and said "Okay then, you'll do." 
I breathed a sigh of relief, inwardly thanking God. 
He then led me over to the men standing around that dim light. While we were walking, he whispered "This is the brainwashing center of Notre Dame." I looked at him in disbelief, and he con­tinued "We of Notre Dame feel that every freshman should be ingrained with certain ideals and generalizations that represent the viewpoints of everyone. Someday, these young people will be alumni, less than miraculous coaching 
the road of thought for a moment 
and it is very important that they understand the proper views of could account for the subsequent 
or two. While you're walking, 
Notre Dame."


Support 

fourth quarters in each of the 
consider what it means to be a part 
Still refusing to believe what I had just heard, I looked ahead and games. 
of Notre Dame. Consider what it 
saw what the men were so intent upon. He was a freshman, sitting In any case, nothing can justify 
would be like to coach at Notre 
on a wooden chair, and a light was shining into his eyes. He staredthe insults that have been of late
Devine 

Dame where bandwagons are 
ahead dumbly, as if hypnotized.
flying in Coach Devine's direction. 

forever in vogue.As supporters of Notre Dame in · Lastly, I'd like to apologize to One of the upperclassmen began to speak. "We are now going ~o Dear Editor: both its football tradition and its Coach Devine. I hope he realizes give you some rules to live and abide by while you attend thts 
I think that it is quite disgusting Christian tradition we should that the clamor of bandwagons has University. Please repeat the following after me: that a place such as Notre regain our perspective and nothing to do with the beautiful -Father Hesburgh is never on campus.Dame, which takes pride recognize that we can all be arm­music that the real Notre Dame -Emil T. Hoffman is a PrelJ magnate.
in its Christian atmosphere, chair coaches without defaming an -l''ather Burtchaell runs Notre Dame.
spirit is so apt to produce.

would persist in the brutal rumor­individual's character. Whatever -Arts and Letters is a "piece of cake." mongering that is going on con­our view of Dan Devine's coaching 1\lartin G. Quirk -Notre Dame football players are "gods."cerning Coach Dan Devine. philosophy we nevertheless, owe -South Bend hates Notre Dame. 
Here we speak a great deal about him respect as a human being, and -Notre Dame hates South Bend.


Sport To

support and respect for our fellow as a pretty _ fair field There were others, and words like "SMC turkey" and "jockmembers of this Community, but general. We're still 5-l and I for 
when the opportunity to put this one am still looking forward to the courses" were used. After each of these, the poor freshman repeated and learned each of them.
into practice comes about we back upcoming clash with Southern Cal. 
Business 

My "escort" then said to me "In the first two months, everyoff. It appears that we have all freshman is secretly subjected to this treatment, and afterwards
been quite negligent in our support Erin Dwyer 
.Jim Sullivan Dear Editor: they remember nothing about what they have seen or heard."
of Mr. Devine. I think that during As everyone knows, football at I was still in a daze, but one question suddenly occured to me: "Ithis time of preperation for the Notre Dame is not only a proud learned in psychology class that there ar~ people ~ho canno~ beSouthern California game we tradition, but is also the cause of hypnotized. Are there people who can t be bramwashed mtoshould extend to Coach Devine our our national fame and the source of believing these things?"

Off The

heartfelt support and en­
hundreds of thousands of dollars of "Yes" he replied, "the intelligent ones."
couragement. 
revenue a year for the schooL

Notre Dame has a long and great 
If we insist, however, on being


Wagon

tradition behind its familial 
national champs each and every
character and we should go out of DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
year, then we will go through
our way to make Mr. Devine feel a Dt>ar Editor: 
coach after coach, crucifying each 
part of this family. 
When I heard Tom Dennin 
one with every loss or mistake 1 HAPPEN 7rJ 7HINK report rumors of Dan Devine's until we find one lucky enough to 111E-IIKFJJ)Of=71165A-I
Rill Seetch quitting and Father Joyce's 
have a perfect season his first year MJAN PfiJPJ£, I1NP I VN/JtR­statement in reaction to the here. However, in doing this we Mt/ST Pf1T ml? IN-STIW~ rumors I found it all very hard to will complete what has already ~~wu:r-In s uIts believe. It didn't make sense to me been started here--the trans­1HIN6 a5e IN MY that Dennin would bother with formation of football from a great !Jet.I86?ATICW5/
• t•f• d such rumor and even less sense sport into a business, where the s-,.~1
UnIus I Ie that Father Joyce would bother to only thing that counts is winning ­articulate the obvious viciousness 
no matter who is hurt, or how 
of the rumors. The last few days many people like Dan Devine are Dt>ar Editor: have made it clear to me why 
destroyed. Suzanne Harty 
· To many of the diehard Irish Dennin bothered to 'report' and fans it will no doubt come as quite why Father Joyce bothered to a shock that the Era of Ara is over. 'issue'. 
An 

With that realization in mind, I The plain fact is that members of think it is time that we fans of the Notre Dame community were Notre Dame football give Dan not only spreading the rumors, but 

Apology

Devine the chance that he deserves were also lending their support to to impress his mark on Irish them. People I love and respect 
Dear Editor:

football history. were jumping on the "dump 
I would like to publicly apologize 
I find it hard to believe that the Devine" bandwagon with cries for 
to Kathy Carrigan for inferring
very same Christians who a football team worth $3000 in 
in yesterdays article covering the
grimaced at the treatment Devine tuition and huge alumni con­
freshmen class election that she is 
unjustly received during his tenure tributions. When I read about Dan 
"stupid". My rash statement was
at Green Bay are responsible for Devine's reaction to these rumors I 
taken out of context which added to
the unwarranted and abusive realized that there was a real man 
the baseness of the insult. 

rumors to which Dan has been being hurt by these rumors-a man 
From the bottom of my heart I
subjected here over the past few that could shed tears thinking 
am sorry for that low accusation. I
days. If it is only coaching ability about what vicious rumorihad been 
am no one to pass judgement on
one wishes to discuss then Devine's able to do before. 
11nother human being and from my 
record speaks for itself. And if one I don't like bandwagons. They quick tongue have Jearned a hard,feels that poor coaching explains 
seem to give one an excuse not to but worthwhile lesson.
the first three quarters of the Air 
think. I hope anyone who is now Hilaire ThomasForce and North Carolina games, 
riding on the "dump Devine" Freshmen Class Presidentalthen it can be argued that nothing bandwagon will get off and walk Candidate 
------~ ~-------­
------------~ -­
-----1 
I 
Wednesday, october 22, 1975 the observer 5 
ND to host alcohol conference 
by Eileen O'Grady Staff Heporter 
Notre Dame will be the site for a nationwide collegiate conference twld on the prevention of alcohol abuse, entitled "University 50 Plus 
12: A Fresh Look at the Old Sauce." 
The conference will be attended by the largest university from each state plus thirty private and minority schools. Each school will be represented by both a student and faculty or adminsitrative pt•rson It will be held Nov. 21, 22, and 23 at the Center for Continuing Education. 
The National Clearing House of Alcohol Information is sponsoring the conference. Diana Merten, the Notre Dame chairman explained tht• fo<.·us and purpose of the Con­ference. 
"They are trying to help colleges develop programs to prevent alcohol abuse. Abusive drinking is not just a personal problem; it is a community problem," Merten stated. 
"On college campuses, this can be seen with the high cost of damages done by people who come back from a beer blast and tear off a door or stick their fist through a wall," she added. 

"By working with these prople," she continued, "I've learned that the biggest part of drinking is where you drink, with whom you drink and why you drink. If you're drinking in a nice environment with good friends, then you're not going to tend to have drinking problem. On the other had, if you drink by yourself with not type of social interaction, there is a higher tendency to develop problems," 
Merten said. 
According to Merten, the con­ference will consist of a student panel discussion , various speakers, the handing out of the conference manual and the sub­sequent break down into workshops looking into the dif­ferent areas, of the manual. 
Merten served on the editorial board of the ma.nual over the summer. The booklet consists of­strategies and programs to be used to prevent alcohol abuse on college campuses. It includes various projects that schools have developed to enhance the socialization of alcohol. The "Quickie" bus service and Senior Club are projects explained from Notre Dame. 
HPC to award Rockne Trophy 
h)· 1\lartha Fanning Staff Ht•}lortt•r 
The first presentaton of the ltockne Trophy, initiated this year by the Hall President's Council, will be awarded this weekend, announced HPC Chairman Elton . Johnson last night after a meeting i11 Cavanaugh. 
The purpose of the award is to Pncourage hall activities. At the Pnd of each month each hall will submit an activities sheet to the II PC to be evaluated by the Rockne <'omm ittee. Possible criteria for Pvaluation was presented to the council by Johnson for discussion and approval. 
Dissussion on the cirteria cent­Pred on how the importance of a hall activity should be determined. The original propsal emphasized projects geared toward the entire Nll-SMC' communitv. 
Kathy Grace, Breen-Phillips president, pointed out that some halls may have more pCtivities geart>d toward dormitory residents. "My hall is trying to organize activities to get students who stay in on Saturdays out of th­eir rooms," she commented. 
Patty Sheehan, Walsh president added, "There are some activities that Walsh has that we would hesitate to include on an activities sheet since they are geared to Walsh residents." 
A decision to equate the im­portance of the two types of ac­tivities was reached and approved hv the council. Dan Buckley, Morrissey president, commented "The number of people that attend an activity should not be important in the committee decision." He pointed out that some activities are designed for different people to satisfy varied interests and therefore would appeal to smaller groups. 
The approved criteria that will be presented to the judgment committee, include: 
Number of Activities: serving as an indicator of an active hall government and sufficient student­resident participation; 
Scope of Activities: equal 
importance to be assigned to any 
activity whether it is geared 
toward dorm residents or the ND­
SMC community: 
Suct•ess ofActivities: considering 
the planning, originality, 
organization, publicity, and 
student response; 
!Extraordinary Awards, this 
category for a hall sponsored 
activity which has received 
favorable recognition from the 
Administration, Student Govern­
ment, Student Union, etc. It would 
also receive additional attention 
from the Rockne Committee. 
Heports from committees were 
also entertained during the 
course of the meeting. Bob 
Quakenbush, Executive Coor­
dinator, reported on the United 
Way Campaign, which will conlude 
tonight. 
"So far no meney has been submitting it to the council," he rollected from the halls, but from added. reports we've found that those Several announcements were halls which used a personal made by Johnson. "Judgment on contact or unusual collection homecoming decorations wil be nwthod were more successful." made Friday afternoon," he l~uakenbush urged the presidents stated. "The winner will be an­to make a "final push" for con­nounced at the Pep Rally Friday tributions. He also expressed his night," he added . tratitude to all those who aided in Council members were also this year's campaign. informed that the deadline for hall 
Another report was presented by allotment requests and hall alcohol Bob Hyan, Stanford president, and guidelines was Monday, Oct. 27. chairman of the HPC Constitution Clark Carmichael, Ombudsman <'ommittee. "The first draft is Operations Officer, passed out the finished and the final draft should Ombudsman Resource Manual to be ready in approximately a ('ach president for distribution to month," he announced. "We are hall staffs at the conclusion of the going over it very carefuly before meeting. 
United fund success spurs second auction 
b)' Brigid Hafrerty Starr Heporter 
Due to successful sales, Tuesday evening's United Way Fund Auction at St. Mary's dining hall will be be continued tonight, ac­cording to Cathy Coyne, chair­person of the event. 
Under the auctioneering of Dr. Mark Bambenek, chemistry in­structor, students donated ap­proximately $400 to the United Way cause. Some of the sales included a pair of blue jeans. presented as "St. Mary's official uniform", for $10.25, a used Notre Dame football helmet, which sold for $31.75, and a luncheon for two with Dr. William Hickey, which added $25. For $18, one student received the privilege of having her room cleaned by Sr. Elena Malits, chairman of St. Mary's Religion Department. 
"I was happy with the response from the students," said Coyne. "It was so lively. They were all interested in the cause. It was so much fun for them to watch other kids bidding. A group of kids got together with $23 and went around to collect money to bid for a cheesecake made by Dr. Bam­banek 's wife, which eventually went for $37," she added. 

The highlight of the auction was the bidding for a motorcycle ride with Dr. Robert Borengasser, of the Business Department, who appeared at the dining hall in a helmet and offered to escort the highest bidder to Baskin-Robbins for a sundae, and return safely to campus. This went for $23. 
"People got really excited about that. The interest just grew more and more as they saw other people bidding for it," Coyne said. 
The money raised by the annual 
auction, in its third year at St. Mary's, counts strictly as a student contribution toward the goal of $5500 established for the total SMC community by the St. Joseph County United Way. "Instead of going door-to door to collect money, we wanted to make an event out of this," continued Coyne. "An auction seems to be the most effective and fun way." 
Coyne wishes to thank Dr. Bambenek for his time, as well as the students who helped in the project and solicited merchandise from the Michiana area. 

Premium Draft Beer $1.25 Pitcher (With This Coupon) 
VILLAGE PUMP DRINKING HOUSE 'MELLOW' 
107 S. MAIN ST. MISHAWAKA 
(GOOD THRU NOV 2nd 
"Hopefully, from the con­ference, people will get some ideas and go back to their schools and develop their own programs," Merten explained. 
"This is in no way a prohibitionist movement," Merten stresses. "The people running the seminar are in no way against the use of alcohol. In fact, they think drinking can enhance ·social situations. They even include in the manual a section on how to use alcohol in different ways, such as cooking and things like that," she said. 
At a meeting Monday night with Keith Hewitt, a representative from the National Clearing House of Alcohol Information, explained to student government and student union members what the con­ference entails. 
Along with the rest of the agt>nda, there also will be several talks on campus on abusive drinking for the general public. He indicated the need for housing the visiting members of the con­ference. Anyone interested in putting up one of the students for tht> weekend should call John Lonsberg at 287-8571 or contact him at the student government office <7668). 
Ed Byrne, Student Body president, speaks highly of the conference. "I'm really looking forward to having all of these representatives from the different state university systems. Many of them have shown a commitment to using alcohol responsibly. I'm all for drinking and so are the people coming in here. But the conference will show there is a 1right way and 'wrong way to drink," he said. 
The Notre Dame student repre­sentative to the eonference will be junior Debbie Kenny. A psychology major, Kenny originally became interested in fhe program because of its relation to behavior. She now has definite goals in mind for the Notre Dame commumty. "What we want •to set up is parties that are not just alcohol oriented. There should be more offered at a party than just drinking for drinking's sake. Drinking can be an asset to 
sot·ializing," she said. She cites the armory as an example. "Prior to this year, the 
point of the armory was just toget bombed. W{• want to get away from that," Kt>nny said. 



f-WffYPAYSOcONCru;ros?l 
f  ALL CIGARETTES 38~  PACK+ TAX  t  
t  CARTONS 85mm  $3.33+ TAX  t  
f  CARTONS lOOmm $3.44+TAX  t  
t  WE ALSO CARRY THE FOLLOWING  t  
t  HARD TO FIND SMOKES  f  
•  Gauloises Caporal  $ .60 pack  '  
' t  Kojaks $1.09 pack La Corona Whiffs $1.09 pack  ' '  
.t  Balkan Sobraine $ .95 tinMAicMAIN P~CY  ' t  
:  426 N. MICHIGAN  :  

L-~.!x.!_t~~~~~:L2~.:_3_2.B!_J 
HOMECOMING DANCE 
"WORLD OF FANTASY" THEME 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24 9P.M.-1A.M. STEPAN CENTER 
·• "SAHARA" from Chicago will entertain 
• cheeset apples, french bread for everyone 
* 
semi-formal attire suggested 

* 
tickets on sale at the dining halls during dinner 



$5.00 Per Couple DON'T MISS THIS FESTIVE AFFAIR 
~ •· 
I, 

the observer Wednesday, October 22, 1975 
InPIRG surveys food store prices 
Bend stores October 15. Thisby Jill Truitt survey, the first InPIRG projectStarr Reporter 
this year, aims at informing consumers of selective grocery prices in the area.

South Bend consumers will find The survey is vased on a
the lowest grocery prices at 
representative sample of eighty Kroger Supermarket, 18337 State eight items. These items areRoad 23, according to the Indiana divided into the categories of fresh Public Resesrch Group <InPiRG). 

vegetables and fruit, canned InPIRG conducted a grocery goods, dry goods, dairy products, pricing survey of twenty four South and meat and poultry. 
Total renewal plan for theater given 
b)· Thomas J. Conaty Starr Heporter 

A renovation presentation of Washington Hall has been given to the Administration but final plans and adequate funds are not yet available, according to produc­tions advisor Professor Reginald 
Bain. 
Inadequate wiring for stage lighting and spotlights in the auditorium led to the halting of theatre presentations in the 
auditorium. The wiring is now safe, 
but classes, films and speeches are 
the only events that now take place 
in the old theater hall. 
Professor Bain thought the ent­ire building may have to be renovated. "The theater in the hall is old and needs to be updated," says Bain, "and maybe this will bring about a definite decsiion t renovate the entire building." "We need to take a real look at the building, and do more to it than just make it adequate." 
Bain thought the seating in the 
hall could even use repairs. 
May be televised 
The matter of repair is now 
under strong consideration but the estimates of the amount or when the renovation could be expected could not be given, due to the need of funds not yet allocated. The only estimate give for repairs was in 
the excess of $30,000. 
Because of the discontinuation of 
the use of the stage for theatrica.I 
productions, performances have 
been chseduled in O'Laughlin 
Auditorium at St. Mry's and 
Stepan Center on the ND campus. 
A recent performance, INDIANS, 
was presented in Stapan and the 
difference inacoustics and sound, 
according to som~ students, dif­
fered from that of Washington 
Hall. "The play was very good but I had a hard time hearing everything that was said," Fred Rodgers, aND senior, commented. "The building is old and not 
designed for what it was beingused 
for." added Bain. "Many changes 
must be made. For example, 
the seating could be improved to 
have better sight and hearing for 
productions." 




USC pep rally scheduled 
b~· Lonnie Luna Staff Heporter 

The 1975 USC pep rally will be held on Friday at 7:00p.m. on the field between the Memorial Library and the Towers. 
Two years ago when the Irish beat USC, 23-14. the pep rally was 
held  at  the  basketball  courts  at  
Stepan.  
"The  biggest problem  in  1973  

was crowd control--getting the speakers and the band in and out," said Paul Reis, pep rally chair­man. The pep rally has been in the plarwing stages for over a month, Heis added. 
A mobile stage was obtained from South Bend. This year, the band. football players will sec­tioned off from the crowd. 
Conflicts at the ACC and preparations for the Homecoming Dance in Stepan Center moved the pep rally to the field. "If there is inclement weather, 
have no choice but to go I ' with it " said Reis. In 1973, ABC televised the pep rally but whether they will this year is up to them, he added. 
A main speaker has not been obtained but one is anticipated, Heis said. Burgemeier, Wujciak and coaches Kelly and Kuhlman will also speak, he added. 
Because of the organization of the pep rally, Security will be using a normal pep rally force, explained Arthur Pears, chief of Security. 

Pitt club collects 
The Pitt Club and the Junior Class officers will collect money for the Pittsburgh trip this weekend. All students who signed­up for the trip must pay the balance due at this time. Money will be collected on Sunday, Oct. :!6, at 6:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Amphitheatre. Game tickets will be distributed to everyone who has made a reservation and who has paid in full. 
"The Kroger chain stores in the 

South Bend area ranked in the six 
lowest priced stores," said Pat 
Burke, survey co-ordinator of 
InPIRG's Notre Dame chapter. 
Burke added that the Thrif-T 

Mart chain stores rank ir the 
second six stores having the lowest 
prices. . 
"Kroger's prices are lower than most stores and they alsays have good discounts," said Rick Casas, an off-campus student shopper. 
Kroger's strong showing is the 

result of its price leadership in 
fresh vegetables and meats and 
poultry, the survey revealed. 
"Kroger does have lower prices, 

but their meat 
"Kroger does have lower prices, 

but their meat is of poor quality. I 
prefer Martin's," said Chris 
Byers, a Notre Dame student wife. 
SMC tunnels have curlew 
by Liz Mern•ll Staff Heportt>r 

Early last week, the SMC security force announced that the tunnels connecting several dorms and classroom buildings would be locked at 11 ::~o every night. 
For girls who have been visiting friends in another dorm or using the lab facilities and swimming pool located in Regina Hall,thiswill mean a walk to their rooms alone at late hours. \The tunnels will remain open during inclement weather. l 
According to Mr. Anthony Kovatch, director of security at SMC, "There is no need for the tunnels to remain open any later than the designated hour." 
This has not always geen the policy. It is just in recent weeks that security has felt it necessary to close the tunnels as a safety precaution against the influx of outsiders appearing on campus. 
"My main objective in closing the tunnels at 11:30 and during week-end parietal hours," Kovatch says. "is simply to keep outsiders out. Undesirables, coming on to the campus from the surrounding areas including Mishawaka, Goshen, Elkhart, St. Joes's and the local high schools, have been on the increase due to the movies, concerts, and other special ac­tivities at SMC. The Friday night coffee-house brings in a lot of 'townies', too,'' he explained. 
Kovatch says these people " ... have absolutely no business wandering around the campus, let alone through the tunnel system. It isn't hard for them to get into the tunnels and from there into the dorms unescorted. It's happened before. We want to keep it to a minimum." 
Kovatch elaborated on a new telephone system recently inst­alled throughout the tunnels. "All you have to do is pick up the receiver and it automatically rings in security headquarters. 







ENERGY CONFERENCE 
WEDNESDAY WASHINGTON HALL, 8:00 P.M. THURSDAY. LIBRARY AUDITORIUM, 8:00 P.M. 
InPIRG revealed consumers can updated Notre Dame Computing save more money by shopping Center,'' Burke stated. "At Notre selectively. "A consumer should Dame and updated survey could be shop at two stores in the same zipped off real quick." neighborhood. He can save a few The Off-Campus Housing Office bucks by comparing prices in the is mailing copies of the survey to individual! food categories at each all off-campus students, Burke store," Burke revealed. said. 
She stressed that the survey "If the list is available and ac-itself is a price comparison be-curate, I would take advantage of tween the stores, and does not it," Casas commented. "I am reflect differences in product interested in cutting down food quality. costs whenever possible." 
Thiry students worked on sur-The InPIRG survey is the first veying and computing for the coordinated effort of the InPIRG project, Burke said. chapters at Notre Daem, ST. 
"The computer end of the Mary's and IUSB, Burke em-project was run at IUSB on an phasized. outdated computer. Right now we ''We are very happy with the are trying to reprogram the results and feel it was a successful project so it can be used in the survey." Burke stated. 

A full service record store 
MAC'S RECORD RPCK $1 off any CHICAGO ALBUM 
288 • 1178 Next to River Park Theate 


Tom McMahon General Agent 

Manny Avila Agent 



'Tearafter ,·car 
I semester'aftc; 
semester, the 
CollegeMaster 
from Fidelih· 
Union Life lias 
been the most 
acceptt'<i. most 
popular plan on 
campuses all 
o\·erAmerica. 
Find out why. 
Call the 
Fidelin· lJnion 
CollegeMaster 
field Associate 
myour area: 
1 005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend, Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 
·~~ 
·~~ G)llc~L'Mastcl·
L 

Wednesday, October 22, 1975 the observer 
Measures to counter scalping explained 
continued from page 1 against him. Faccenda said, "and the University is taking steps to find out." 
Athletic Ticket Manager Mike Busick explained the steps his office takes to prevent any type of scalping situation. Busick called the job in his office as "plugging up the loopholes." The color and pictures used on the reserved seat tickets are changed periodically. The color on the student tickets is l'hanged each year. The format of all tickets, including emergency and duplicate tickets is also 
Alternativepower sources 

WANTED 
explored at conference 
still need 1-4 GA tix any home 
continued from page 1 
transporting the heat. 
O'Connor stated that much of the technology involved was not l'omplicated, and said that "you l'an do it yourself." He also said that it was probably better to do it yourself, as "the commercial market is not always the best place to go." 
After Completing his slide presentation, O'Connor finished on a note of conservation of energy saying "We should save energy and keep the lights off, but after a while it gets impersonal." 
Several members of the audience responded, listing the inflated price of gasoline and the new awareness of waste of energy, and the avoiding of that waste, a'> I he two major effects of the energy erisis. 
Cashman pointed out that both of these were not very serious effects. 
"We're not hurting very much," lw said. "One reason is that this l'ountry is very fat. We have more goods and serv ices than anywhere elso in the world." 
lie pointed to America's energy 
intensive way of life, with 
processed foods, synthetic fibers, 
and electric appliances, as one 
major example of how affluent the 
nation is. He referred, among 
other things, to electric waxed­
paper cutters as and illustration of 
the extent of the American mania 
for electric appliances. 
Cashman stated the energy 
lTisis was really not a crisis, but 
that it could develop very quickly 
into one and "pull the rug out from 
under us" by toppling the 
Pconomy through a lack of fuel and 
synthetic products made from oil. 
With this preface, Cashman 
began the major portion of his 
presentation, which also included a 
slide program showing how wind 
power is used at the New Alchemy 
Institute. 
Cashman showed a number of 
windmill designs used at the In­
stitute's farm near Woods Hole, 
Mass. All were made of either low-
l'ost or salvaged materials. He 
said that the designs were said. "It will always occur where demand is greater than supply," he continued. Busick also em­phasized that the tickets anyone buys from a scalper may, in fact, be stolen. 
Busick felt that people have to stop meeting the scalper's unreasonable demands if the issue is to fade away. "People con­stantly complain to my office about it," Busick said. "Recently I got a four page letter from an ND grad complaining about the high prices he paid somebody for tickets. What gets me, is that he paid the price anyway." I only have 59,075 tickets for each game; when they're gone, they're gone, Busick said. 
"Rarely, if ever, are tickets returned for any game. If they are, they usually only show up about Friday afternoon." 
Some of the students surveyed indicated that they would not make any firm commitment to any person selling tickets for this weekend's game in the hopes that the prices would come down. 
changed often. Even the ap­plications for the tickets is changed on a regular basis ac­cording to Busick. "Our office 
does  everything  it  can  to  make  
sure  that there is only  one way  
possible  for  admission  to  each  

game," Busick said. Just this year Busick's office stopped its "will call policy", which allowed certain persons to pick up their tickets at Busick's office the day of the game. 
He also emphasized the fact that football ticket is not broken down on the tuition bill any more than the linens used on the student's bed," Busick explained. 

Busick praised the stadium personel for the job they have done regarding crowd control and security. "Much of the job depends on them and their ef­ficiency," Busick said, "one break in this chain and our problems would snowball." 
"Scalping is fostered as long as people are willing to pay the higher price the scalper asks," Busick 
University. The cost of a student's 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
Crying for 2 Navy tickets 6896.
:···················•••tttt•••••
SMC SOCIAL COoooo. : 
Wanlt>d: 2 GA tickets tor USC. Ask 
lor Ron 9·5only. Call Collect 312·482­8820. 
: PRESENTS : 
: BARBRA STREISAND : NPeded: One GA or student ticket tor Navy game. Call Maureen 6834 or 1715. No Scalpers need call. 
: FILM FESTIVAL : 
Need 1 USC ticket for Alum. sister. 
Call Camille 4773. 
: FOR PETE'S SAKE : 
NPed 2 GA tix for Navy or Georgia TPch. Call Tom D. 287·0544.
: Wed Oct. 22 : 
HELP!! I NEED 8 USC FOOTBALL
• 7:30 and 9:30 • 
TICKETS. STUDENT OR 
• THE WAY WE WERE • GENERAL ADMISSION. WILL 
PAY $$. CALL NOW!! 289-9174.
: THURS. OCT. 23 : 
Desperately need two So. Cal.
• 7:30 and 10:00 • 
tickets. Call Bob 3665. 
• INCLUDES CARTOONS • 
Need 3 GA Navy tickets. Call Jen 
7248.
• O'LAUGHLIN AUD. • 
: ADMISSION $1.25 : 
~ame 1327.
relatively simple and that you don't have to be an engineer to be 

NPt'd 2 tix lor Beach Boys. Call Jim 
able to build one. 

3338. 
After a short time, Cashman branched off on to related topics, 

Will pay $15 apiece tor 2 student USC 
speaking of a solar heated, wind­

tix. Call Rick 287·2219. Ill ill -powered, greenhouse 
aquaculture, for raising fish as a 

Nt•ed 2 USC tix. Will pay S$. Call 
source of protein. 

Pete 234-6352. 
"I don't believe you can talk about any of these things 

All 1 need is 1 GA USC ticket 7937 separately," he said. Referring to 
please.
the world's present environmental situation. he stated "One reason 

NPt'ded: 1 USC ticket. Call Jean 4· 
we get into these terrible messes is 

5436 or Mary Anne 4·4165. 
not thinking ecologically." Cashman's talk covered a wide 

NPt'd 2 GA tickets for Navy. Call 
range of matters following this, as ' 

Bob at 288-3472.
he explored various ways of living a way of life that is not energy 

NPeded: only one USC ticket. Call 
intensive. 

7471.
Following the presentations there was a question and answer 

WANTED: 2 GA USC TICKETS. 
and discussion period led by Dr. 

CALL 3075.
James P. Kohn, prof. of Chemical Engineering, who acted as a "co­

NPed ride to Pittsburgh Sun. after 
discussant." 

USC game. Call 272·3294. 
WaniPd: GA Navy, GPorgia TE'Ch, 
Pitt Call 1652. 
Nt•Pd 6 USC GA tickets. 233-5373. 
Nt•Pdt'd: One good ticket lor Beach Boys Concert. Call Maggie 277-0794. 
Must bP in Connecticuil or vicinity by Friday, Nov. 7. Please call Ellen at 277-0794 if you can provide a ride that wPekend. 
NPt'd 4 or 5 USC tix. Call 4-5483. 
WaniPd: 4 GA tickets to Navy and USC. Call Marty or Joe at 287·5113. 
DPsperaiPiy need 1 USC and Navy ticket. Call Pam 4-4161. 
NPt>d GA Southern Cal fix. Call 6896. 
Needed: two GA Southern Cal tix. Please call John at 3467. 
Wan!Pd: GA So. Cal. tickets. Any number of them. Gary 3075. 
Dr. Tyrone Cashman explains the 

NPt'd 1 USC tickt>l. Call Mike after 6 
potentials of wind energy. (Photo 

PM 288·0088.
by Chris Smith) 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA USC TIX. ANY PRICE. CALL 1942. 
Will pay $70 tor 2 USC tix. Call Joe Collect at 412·683-8976. 
DPsperately nePd ride to area in CPntral Ill. weekend of Oct. 24th. Will share t>xpenses. Call Marybt>lh 4444. 
NPt'd six Navy tickets. Will pay$$. Also. 1 student USC ticket for sale. Call Rich 1683. 
Will trade two GA Gt>orgia Tech. for 1 usc 289-6907. 
NPt'd 1 GA ticket for Navy. Call Shotsi 289-8800. 
Would apprpciate (and help pay for) ridP to Chicago Oct. 31. Call ShPvawn 4-4812. 
NPPd 2 USC GA tix badly. Call Ellen 3468. 
NPed ride to Cincinnati or Columbus Oct. 24. Call 8527. 
WaniPd: 2 GA tix for Southern Cal. Will pay good price. 284·7320 after 6 PM. 
N<'Pd 2 good Navy GA fix together and 1 more GA or student tickt>ts anywhPrt'. BIG BUCKS! Call 284­4411. 
N<'Pd 3 or 4 GA Navy tix together. Ed 8600. 

Ft>male housemate(s) wantPd now and nPxl semester. 5 min. walk to Angela & ND Avt>. Call between 5 PM & 10 PM 289-4303. 
FOR SALE 

For sale: 2 bedroom home. fireplace. 5 minutes from Campus $120 per month plus utilities. Call 232·7372. 
For sale: 2 snow tires. 13", $11. 232· 4569. 

Quality Stereo Components at 20·40 percent savings. RMS Audio, 321 S. Main. 288-1681, 12·7 PM. 
Single component phono AM FM st­ereo and tepedeck; 2 new adequate 

speakers.  Retails  for  $180 plus,  
asking $125.  Call Matt  1023.  
-­ 

--------~----­

For sale: Pionee-r SX 838 Receive-r. 50 watts per channel. 2112 months old. SPIIs new tor $500. Bob 1400. 
Pure bred 1rish SPttt'r puppies. Call PPit'r 272-6930. 
NOTICES 
Greyhound to Chicago. Friday 4:45 Main circle. Call Tom 8338 before­Thurs. midnight. 
Buy beautiful multi.colored and multi-designed genuine French leather belts at one-.third off store­price. Wide selection. See Shawn 310 Keenan. Call 3318. 
Class of '77! Fulfill your fantasies at the Junior Class Formal-Fant•sia 1 Tickets on sale at Student Union ticket office. 

LParn sport parachuting the safe way at Oxbow Air Sports Center. 2 W!'Pk special $35iump course plus $15 for first jump. Contact Dale 683 8980 or John 1 782-3500. 
Farley Motel is filled for So. Cal. Weekend. 
Typing 35 cents per page. Call Dan 272-5549. 
Flanner Records has the new: Paul Simon, Dave Mason, Pink Floyd, Bruce Springsteen, Herbie Hancock, and Linda Ronstadt. Also, any other album not in stock can be ordered. 
Aall 1488 or come to 807. 
Jefferson Starshlp Bus trip Oct. 27th $10.50. Student Union ticket office. 
HUSTLE UP FOR 15 GREAT HUSTLE STEPS. TAUT IN LAFORTUNE BALLROOM EACH & EVERY TUES.&WED. 3-5. ALSO TUES. EVE. 7:30-9:30. WALK INTO ANY OF THESE CLASSES ALONE, GROUP, OR COUPLE: FACULTY, STAFF, STUDENTS ALWAYS WELCOME. $2 EA. CLASS. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost. gold charm with one gold "Happy Birthday" charm. Call 7628. 
Found: Ont> SMC class ring. Call PutziP 287-3528. 
Lost: 1 pair gold, wire.rimmed qlasses at St. Mary's between LPMans and the dining hall. Call 234·6352. 
Lost: A silver necklace with 3 red stones on it. If found please return it. It was a special gift. Call 2184. Susan. 
Lost: Silver ID bracelet, name Patricia. Call 6788. 
FOR RENT 

Low Rent; no restrictions; single students only; ample parking; male or female. Call after 6 PM only 289­5237. 
Room for Rent: S50a month. Share kitchen and bath with one other st· udt>nl. Call 232 9311 or 289-9533 before 10 AM or after 5 PM. 
PERSONALS 
A.C.· I'll call you Thurs. night at 10:00 PM your time. M.G.M. 
Jim, Chuck, Jim(213 Party Room), Thank you for walking us home. You're in lht' 20 percent. Mary, Pat, Joan 
The Prodigal Son will return. 
S.J.S. The back is back, how bad is thatl Blow in my ear?? Arf, art. 
REB 

DonS.. Happy Birthday! You've got nice legs. Love, Little Sister and Jocko. 
... 
" . 
.... 
the observer Wednesday, October 22, 1975 
.. 
Computers used to scout 1lrish 

by Fred Herbst two programs that were written by Fran Finnegan, a Notre Dame 
The Notre Dame football team graduate who is now in graduate starts preparation for a game long school in Chicago. before the week's first practice on The first program is an "error 
Monday. program" which is designed to In fact, Notre Dame starts eliminate any inconsistencies or preparing three weeks prior to a 
mistakes in the IBM cards. game by scouting an upcoming The second program produces 
opponent. In preparation for this the final printout that contains all weekend's battle with :Southern the necessary information needed Cal. the Irish have been scouting by the coaching staff. 
the Trojans since their game with "Our main duty is to get the data Iowa three weeks ago. _ from the scouts process it correctly 
Ross Stevenson serves as head and get the printouts back to the scout for Notre Dame with Greg coaches as .quickly as possible," Blache. Dan Novakov and Steve Hull said. "Many a Saturday night 
Bossu working with him. has been spent at the Computer When watching a team, the scout Center rather than at parties. In records every offensive play run some cases I've been there until 5 by the upcoming ' opponent,. a.m. depending on when the scout 
paying particular attention to the got in." 
team's field position, its position in On Sunday each defensive coach relation to the hash marks, the picks up a copy of the printout. The individual players involved, the coaches than get together to importance oflheplay, the quarter, analyze and prepare a scouting the time remaining, the offensive report for distribution among formation, the down, the yardage 
players. The report often times reaches fifteen pages in length.

needed for a first down and the score.· 
Players receive their copies on The scouts return as soon as Monday. possible and give their information The system has proven ex­
to student managers BobHull, Joe tremely accurate and reliable. But Carey, Tom Ogren., Ken Haffey the biggest asset of the system is its efficiency. Before this system
and1 Mark Chain 
The managers ·take the in­was developed, scouting reports formation to the Computer Center 
weren't ready for distribution until and keypunch each individual play 
Thursday. on to an IBM card. There are about The report details the tendencies 100 cards per game scouted. 
of the upcoming opponent in The cards are then run through particular situations and outlines 
*Observer 
Sports 

The Irish Eye 
:=:=::;=:===========~=====================~=========================================:;=:===~=.College vs. pro 
It is a week such as this one on the campus of NotreDamethat should reaffirm the belief that college football is just about the most exciting entertainment around. 
The whole aura of the college game makes this so-not just the game itself.lt's the pep rallies, the alumni parties, the tailgateparties etc., that give college football its attractiveness and which makes it so enjoyable. 
But as far as the game goes, college football is still far more ent­ertaining, especially compared to professional football. Pro-style play has become dull, routine and repettive. Its patterned offenses, zone defenses and reliance on field goals take the thrill and excitement out of the game. True, the pros execute better and make fewer mistakes, but collegiate offenses, the wishbone, the veer, the l,the wing T and the wild, zany often funny errors that arise out of them give college ball a good deal of its attraction. 
In the latest NCAAnewsletter, several sportswriters gave their opinion on the college-pro comparison. 
Joe Falls, Detroit Free Press: I couldn't believe that such things really existed in life -that you could get up on a Saturday morning ... get in the car and drive though the glorious countryside and then watch a game that was utterly exhiliarating. After almost 25 years here, I stil.l. get my biggest kick out of toing to a college game on a Saturday afternoon. 
Dave Hicks, Phoenix Arizona Republic:Comparedto college football, the pro game is highly sophisticated. Compared to college football, the pro game is a monumental bore. 
Dave Condon, Chicago Tribune: College football players aren't asking for pensions ... or for yearly salaries that representmore money than many working men earn in a decade. They're just playing football ... an? the public is beginning to appreciate it. I agree...that college football IS en­joying its finest hour." 
Paul Attner, Washington Post: Pro football is a bore. It's as predictable as George Allen's next quote and as exciting as on~ of Howard_Cosell's profundities. It's even more overrated as an Amencan attra~t10n than Evel Knievel. For pure enjoyment give me college football anytime. 
Notre Dame coach Dan Devine has experiencedboth and he certainly doesn't have to think long to make his decision. 
"I feel very strongly that college football is more exciting," he said. "At Green Bay we had great rivalries with the Vikings and the Bears, but it'sJiothing compared to, say the Air Force game last week. The pros try to simulate a college game. They hire a band and bring in cheerleaders and everything, but they're justthere onthe~idelines, they haveno stake in it." 
"I'm sure there's nothing comparable to a Notre Dame-USC weekend," he added. This week lbould. bear that out. 
wiJaL can be expected form dif­ferent formations and different plays. 
Notre Dame's scouting report is primarily a defensive one. That is, it is aimed at stopping the op­ponent's offense. This report is possible since most teams stay wi­th one basic offense. 
The Irish don't concentrate on scouting the opponent's defense since most colleges run a number of different defenses, making it impractical to put in report form. 
·'The idea of the thing is to allow vou to concentrate on certain things ihat your opponent has shown a tendency to use." said Greg Blache. head JV football coach who also serves as a scout. 
The report is is aimed at two areas. First it wants to prevent the big play and second it wantsto force the opponent away from its strength. By stopping the big play, the opponent is forced to drive for their scores. "When a team is forced to drive, they have to run more plays and naturallythere is a greater chance that they'll make a mistake," Blache said. "Besides, any team that can drive to a score on you probably deserves it and it's less demoralizing." 
By concentrating on the op­ponent's strength, it is hoped that theywill be forced away from their game plan. "The idea is to make your opponent beat you left­handed." Blache said. Notre Dame doesn't worry about teams ch­anging their style of play. "A team might try and surprise us, and it might work once. But in doing so, they're leaving their strong suit and it'll hurt them in the 
Harriers finish 4th in Wisconsin 
by Mike Towle 

Even though two of their top runners did not figure in the scoring, the Notre Dame cross eountry was able to finish a respectable fourth out of 15 teams in the Wisconsin Invitational on Saturday. 
Captain Jim Hurt was unable to perform to the best of his ability because of a lingering hip injury. l\1t-anwhile. freshman teammate Dt-nnis Vanderkraats could not make the trip because of sickness. 
Bruce Fisher of the University of Chicago Track Club topped the field of 121 runners with a time of 
23:56 over the five miles. Wisconsin teammates. Mark Johnson and Steve Lacy, were second and third respectively in leading the Badgers to the team title over Southwest Michigan. 
The first Irish finisher was Steve Welch in eighth place with a time of 24:56. He was followed by Jim Reinhart, 16th; Joe Yates, 23rd; Dan Horgan, 45th; and Jay Miranda, 46th. Notre Dame's next meet is this Friday at Purdue in the Indiana Intercollegiate State meet. 

end," Blache said. ments in theirdefense to meet the Blache pointed out that a scout­strength of their opponent. ing report can't win or lose games, The primary advantage of a it's just an aid to the team. scouting report is that it gives the 
"lt's valuable to us," he said, team a good idea of what to "but you can't take credit away expect in certain situation and from the head coach and his consequently allows them to 
assistants." While the scouting gamble more freely with the odds report influences the team, they in their favor. don't make any major changes A great deal of time and effort because of it. "You can't get away goes into producing a scouting from what you do best. You can't report. and withgoodcause. While let the other team dictate your the game is actually won or lost on moves," commented Blache. the field. don't ever underestimate 
Still. the Irish do make adjust-the value of a scouting report. 
Club Sports Summary 
The Notre Dame Rugby "A" Club was beaten by Ohio_ University this past Saturday, 17-3. The Irish "B" team fought to a 6-6 tie. 
The "A" game was closer than its score would indicate, with both sides having an equal number of opportunities. The backbone of the Ohio team was their excellent kicker who turned back many Irish thrusts and generally, controlled the tempo of the game. Chet Zwalick scored the three Notre Dame points on a penalty kick. The "A" team's record is now 2-2. 
The "B" game was very competitive, with neither side being able to maintain any noticeable advantage. The Irish came up with a last minute rush, but time ran out and the game ended in a 6-6 deadlock. Eric Snider made two kicks for the 6 Notre Dame points. The "B" team's record is now 2-0-2. 
The Rugby Club's next match is this Friday evening at 8 on Cartier Field against Michigan State. 
********** 
The Notre Dame soccer team suffered two heartbreaking losses 
this week. On Saturday they were beaten 3-Q by Central Michigan 
and were defeated 2-0 by Grace College yesterday. 
Despite being on the verge of scoring in both games, the Irish 
failed to kmake the big play. Still they demonstrated outstanding 
hustle and spirit. 

********** 
The Notre Dame varsity Men's Crew, coxswained by Jose Santiago, lost by a length to Detroit Boat Club last weekend. The junior varsity, also coxswained by Santiago, lost by a half-length. Notre Dame's 4-man crew; Ed Tagge, Bill Landyute, Dave Robinson and Bill Tracy, raced against the Senior Elite Four Crew that won the nationals this year, losing by two lengths. Considering the competition, coach Bill Godfrey was pleased with the Crew's performance. The Men's Crew will travel toBoston this weekend to compete in the "Head of the Charles" Regatta. 
********** 
The Women's Golf team completed its fall season by beating Franklin College Saturday. In a dual meet, Captain Barb Breesmen and Leslie Barnes won the meet in match play. Due to the inclement weather, the meet was cut down to nine holes, but was actually won by Barnes and Breesmen on the sixth hole. Brees men was already 4 up with only 3 holes to play. Barnes and her opponent were tied going into the 6th hole, but because of the weather they decided to end on the sixth hole also. The team will resume its season next spring. 
********** 
Notre Dame's Women's Crew coxswained by Rose Gill, lost to Wisconsin by less than two lengths, or 11 seconds, last weedend. Later Notre Dame's same varsity crew beat Wisconsin's second varsity by 2112 lengths or 16 seconds. 
Notre Dame varsity normally competes as a lightweight crew, but Wisconsin does not have a lightweight crew. "We were out­sized," said Women's captain, Mary Fitzsimons. The Women's Crew will travel this weekend to Boston to compete with 44 teams in the "Head of the Charles," the world's largest regatta. 



