

server 
Key changes made 
Roemer replaces Macheca 
by Bob Mader 
Staff Reporter
Several key aammtstrattve appointments have been made during the summer for the present school year. Included among them is the ap­pointment of Dr. James Roemer as Dean of Students, and new deans of the colleges of business and arts and letters. 
It was officially announced on July 31 that Dr. James A. Roemer, university counsel since 1972 would replace Mr. John Macheca as Dean of Students. Macheca, the University's first lay dean of students in 1973 is now working with Roemer to provide as much continuity as possible under the new dean. After the transition is complete, Macheca will sHve as special assistant to Brother Just Paczesny, C.S.C., vice president for student affairs. 
Roemer a South Bend native, received his bachelors degree in economics from Notre Dame in 1951 and a J.D. from the Notre Dame Law School in 1955. He joined the university staff after four years in the South Bend law firm of Roemer, Sweeney, and Roemer. In addition to his work as a University Counsel, he also served part time as a city attorney for South "Bend. He formerly held legal positions in the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's Office. The South Bend Redevelopment Department, and the Sl .loseoh County Board of Zoning Appeals. 
He was almember of the Urban League, the United Nrgro College F'und, and Neighborhood Study Help, Inc. 
Macheca 's role will be helping Roemer in what has to be done, but leaving the choice of how the job is done to Roemt•r. Macheca plans to include in his work as special assistant to Just, work with the Senior Class and support of the Senior Club. 
New Business IJean 
Brother Leo V. Ryan succeeds Acting Dean Yusak)(.ll'~uruhashi as the Dean of the College of Business Administration. htruhashi has serv~d since the resignation of Dean Thomas Murphy m May 1974. He will return to iull time teaching as a professor of marketimz. 
Hyan, a specialist in-institutional finance~ brings with him a wide range of experience. H1s most recent position was president. of. St. ,Viator H!gh School in Arlington Heights, I\lmots. Hts consultmg assignments have includPd the administrative reorganization of the city of Milwaukee Department of Economic Development, Forlow Tours of Chicago, and the Vilter Manufactu.rinlil Compa~y in Chicago, He is on the Board of Directors of Vdter Manufacturing Company, serves as grant ad­ministrator on the Board of Trustees of the Center of Human Development at St. Mary"s College in Winona, Minnesota, and is a consultant on sch?Ol finance to the National Catholic Education Association. 
He also has held visiting professorships at eight universities, including Notre Dame, and has authored over 400 articles and three books. 
Charles Named Acting Dean 
homilist. At 2:30 p.m. the inauguration will begin, followed by an outdoor buffet. Dr. Jack Detzler, chairman of the Inaugural honor of the Madonna of Peace last night In the Church of Loretto. Committee and director of com-The candlelight ceremony was preceded by a banquet. (Photo by munity relations, stressed that Chris Smith) Sunday's ceremony will be an on-
of Arts and Letters, has been named acting dean of the (;ollege. A search committee for a permanent replacement for retiring Dean Frederick J. Crosson, chaired by Charles, is continuing its work. 
' 
Charles received both her M.'A. and Ph.D. in English ·rrom Notre Dame. Following a year of postdoctoral study in 1968 at the Center for the Study of Higher Education at the University ott Michigan, she worked as executive vice president and academic dean of Ohio Dominican College in Columbus, where she previously taught for three years on the English facutly. She was the first woman to hold an assistant dean position when she came to the University in 1973. She will also con­currently hold an appoinment as associate professor of Em!lish. 
TheCollegeofArtsandLettersistheUniversity's
largest Undergraduate College with about 2000 students. 
Dr. Donald P. Kommers, professor of Govern­ment and international studies, has been appointed director of the University's Center for Civil Rights. 
Kommers, a member of the faculty since l!J63, succeeds Dr. Howard A. Glickstein who has headed the Center since it was established in 1973 by a $550,000 grant from the Ford Foundation. Glickstein has accepted a law faculty appoinment at Howard University, Washington, D.C. 
Kommers received his bachelor's degree from the Catholic University of America in 1954 and obtained his doctorate from the University of Wisconsin in 1962. A specialist in comparative constitutional law, he has published widely on West German and American constitutionalism. 
HP is currently writing in the area of civil rights and human liberty in the world community and co­editing a volume on civil rights. 
Benesh Replaces Schlaver 
Brother John Benesh, C.S.C., will be the new director of Student Activities, heading a six man team responsible for dividing the responsibiliti~s formerly held by Fr. David Schlaver. Schlaver wtll return to Michigan State University to continue his studies. 
Benesh hopes to coordinate his staff, work on further renovations of LaFortune Student Center, work with student government and student union, and assist the band and glee club at the University. 
Brian C. Regan, director of development, has been appointed to the new position of executive assistant to Dr. James W. Frick, vice president for public relations and development. Regan came to Notre Dame in 1968 as a regional director of development and has headed the Development Department since 1973. 
A1961 graduate of Notre Dame, he is also a major .n the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve and commands Company B, 6th Engineer Battalion in South Bend, He is secretary of the St. Joseph High School Board of Education, a member of the South Bend Rotary, and a board member of both the St. Joseph County Red Cross and Goodwill Industries. 
Duggan's inauguration set 
b~· :'\hu·y .Jant·a St. Mur.\·'s Editor 
St. Mary's will officially welcome its new president, Dr. John M. Duggan, with a con­celebrated Mass and formal inaugural ceremony on Sunday in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The mass, which is traditionally celebrated at the beginning o( each academic year, will be held at 
10:30 a.m., with Bishop Crowley as the principal celebrant and ! 
1 summer vacation Is over! 
Summer storage pick-up
Is-cheduled for thl·s week 
1 
by Val Zurblls 
, Staff Reporter Students may claim their various summer-stored property this week. The Student Union will have the storage trucks at several locations on campus September 3,4, and 5. 
The trucks will be completely unloaded starting at 6:30a.m. Due to an overabundance of student response, the trucking company is short of help and any student volunteers to help unload the trucks will be welcome. 
Students should present their receipts to recover their own property. 
The schedule of pick-up times is as follows: Wednesday, September 3. 
WNDU parking lot­Farley Flanner Grace Breen-Phillips 
Behind Bookstore­Sorin Walsh Howard 
Behind Zahm-­Zahm 
At Holy Cross Holy Cross 
Behind Fisher-­
Pangborn 
Behind Lewis-Lewis (This is storage from Badin residents last year> Thursday, September 4 
Behind Cavanaugh­Cavanaugh 
Behind Fisher Fisher 
campus, in-house welcome for t~e new president by the members of the St. Mary's faculty. 
On Sunday, September 14, 
however, a reception in which members of the South Bend community may meet Dr. and Mrs. Duggan is planned. 
Detzler stated that the Board of Regents, administration, faculty and students of the college are expected to attend the inauguration. Additionally, student government officers and the senior class will be ,dt:essed 
'academi~ robes,! as they join faculty, administralion and 
. visiting college and university presidents in the procession preceding both the mass and the 
Behind St. Ed's­St. Ed's 
Behind Keenan­Stanford and Keenan 
Friday, September 5 
Behind Lyons Lyons and Morrissey 
Behind Dillon-­Alumni Dillon 
Casey Nolan, student union director, was pleased with the trucking company hired to store the personal property. "The company did a good job," stated Nolan. "In the past, we did it all on our own--renting trucks and loading them." 
The trucking company picked had the lowest bid but un­fortunately understimated the student response. They expected to fill four trucks and ended up filling over 30. 
"We're trying to help them out by unloading early in the mor­ning," said Nolan. "But because of the volume, students can expect a 100 per cent increase in storage prices next spring." 
Nolan expressed his regrets to the students in those dorms who were receiving their property on Friday. "It's impossible to unload all the dorms in one day," he commented. "We did manage· to fit in over half the halls on the first day, however," he pointed out. 
This is the third year that the Student Union is running the summer storage program as a non­profit service project to the students. Before that, individuals would rent out space and make tremendous personal profits. 
"This is the best system," 
(continued on page 7) 
\ 
inaugural ceremony. 
Administrators and alumni, according to Detzler, representing over 30 Indiana colleges and universities have also been invited. 
This tradjtional ceremony is being 'Observed for the first time since the inauguration of Fr. John McGrath, predecessor of Dr. Edward Henry, whose resignation in the spring, · 1974 forced the search and ultimate selection of Dr. Duggan as president of the college. 
The Inaugural Committee, of approximately 15 members, was ~omprised of representatives of the SMC administration, faculty, stutiP.nts, and Board of Regents. 

---~-----------­
the observer Wednesday, September 3; 1975
2 
warld briefs 
·­
CHARLESTON, W.Va. <APl-A year after a violent, prolonged textbook protest shook the Kanawha County school system, a new school year began Tuesday with full classrooms and no pickets or violence. 
State police and sheriff's deputies ringed several schools and bus garages, but there were no problems. Most parents apparently ignored urgings to continue a school boycott called last year as fundamentalist preachers and many parents protested the use of 325 textbooks they called immoral and unpatriotic. 
NEW ORLEANS <APl-A U.S. District Court judge ordered New Orleans longshoremen Tuesday to resume loading a ship with grain purchased by the Soviet Union. 
Judge Alvin Rubin said the union's contract forbids strikes and it couldn't call one simply "because it did not like the foreign poiicy of the United States." 
WASHINGTON <APl-Continental Trailways bus company announced Tuesday it intends to cut all fares in half for the unemployed. 
"Our customers are mostly people with middle and low income, blue collar workers who have been hit hardes," said Fred Currey,, chairman of the board of Continental Trailways, "We hope to trigger a resurgence in job searches." 
TRENTON, N.J. <APl-Schools, industries and businesses were ordered closed Tuesday as New Jersey's capital city and surrounding communities began running out of water. 
A nroken pump flooded the city's water purification plant and prevented resupply of the city reservoir, which was nearly empty Tuesday afternoon. An estimated .250,000 persons were affected, and the system was not expcted to be back in operation until Thursday. 
PIKEVILLE, Ky. <AP)-United Mine Workers Union and coal industry sources agreed that union miners in eastern Kentucky were beginning to return to work Tuesday as 30,000 miners in West Virginia began a fourth week on the picket lines. 
The wildcat strikes in eastern Kentucky, mostly in eastern Pike 
County near southern West Virginia, followed the wildcat strike 
that began in Logan County, W.Va., after the firing of a United 
Mine Workers UMW official by Amherst Coal Co. 
an campus taday 
12-2 pm -auditions "notre dame chapel choir, glee club, university chorus~ and chorale" room 246, O'shaughnessy hall 
1-5 pm -book exchange "fourth student union book exchange" 2nd floor, Iafortune student center 
2-4 pm -auditions "st. mary's collegiate choir, madrigal singers, etc" 309 moreau (smc.) 
8:30pm · play: "the scarecrow" theatre summer education series, $2, central middle school 
Wrong babies sent home 
DE-QUEEN, Ark. (AP) ­The DeQueen General Hospital apparently gave the wrong babies to the wrong parents this summer, but legal prob­lems are delaying the swap of the infants, an official said Tuesday. 
Ray Kimball, chairman of .he hospital's board of direc­tors, said the two babies were to have been swapped at a meeting Saturday morning. 
But one of the families "de­cided it wou_ldn't \switch until they had their attorney in­
vestigate," Kimball said. Kimball said the babies were born on the same day in late July. He said he didn't know and couldn't find out their ex­act birth t . _ 
The parents have been identi­fied as Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Fisk of Lockesburg, Ark. and Mrs. and Mrs. Gerald Tabor of Broken Bow, Okla. 
Kimball said the Fisk family asked for the investigation after they found a plastic wrist bracelet with the name "Ta­bor" on it when they went through the baby's effects. 
The hospital then asked the Arkansas State Police in Little Rock to compare recent foot­prints with footprints taken at the time of birth. 
"The footprints hadn't changed much, and they were easy to match up," State Police Major W.A. Tudor said. He said a full report was sent to the DeQueen Hos ita!. 
WELCOM-E BACK .FOR GOOO FOOD & COLD BEER
CHECK OUT: 


'PENDLE PUB 
( v4 ryli. NORTH of TOLLWAY EXIT) 
1 03 Dixiewav South South Bend ( CARRY OUT ) 27~5540 
Project choice established 
SMC to investigate sex bias 
Saint Mary's College has received $48,118 to establish Project Choice: An Institute for the Elimination of Sex­Discrimination in Education. Awarded by the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, the grant will be used to work with the South Bend Community School Corporation in reviewing practices and educational materials which could be' considered discri­minatory. 
Described as "a positive 
program,'' Project Choice has 
received the support of the school 
corporation which seeks "to 
review texts, courses, or other 
educational programs or activities 
offered separately on the basis of 
sex." The program will also 
assess guidance procedures, 
testing materials, teacher-student 
interaction, and sex-bias in ex­
tracurricular activities. 
Ms. Nora Hoov~r of St. Mary's 
Department of Education 
describes the goals of Project 
Choice as "a concrete, operable 
program to eliminate sex­
discrimination in all forms. The 
program will be put into practice 
throughout the year and evaluated 
F<?rd, Congress: no compromise 
WASHINGTON <APl ~ Key · Democrats indicated Tuesday that 
Congress is in no better mood to 
compromise with President Ford 
on oil prices than it was a month 
ago. 
Thus, there is a good chance that 
Congress, despite Ford's op­
position, will be able to extend 
existing price controls for six 
months. 
As a result, if a combination of 
factors work out, American con­
sumers could actually see lower~ 
rather than sharply higher~fuel 
prices over the next six months. 
Senate Democratic Leader Mike 
Mansfield and House Speaker Carl 
Albert won Ford's approval last 
week for a proposed compromise. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semet~ter except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. SubScriptions may be 'PUrchased for : 10 pPr semester ($18 per vear) from The Observer Box· Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
I 
I I 
I JOIN THE CHOIR THAT WENT I 
I I 
1 I I
1 I TO EUROPE••• I 
1 
I 
1I ...and whose sites are set on I I
I I 
I
I 
I 
I 
I 


PlAYLANl\_ GOLF._ _Q:NTER 
· OPEN: dawn 'til 6:00 p.m. . -_, H·o'LE • P~ 3 GOLF J:OORSI! Driving Range J8 Hole Miniature 
LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWOOD 
I I 
FREE 
THIS CERTIFICATE GOOD FOR ONE PAR 3or MINIATURE GOLF ADMISSION WITH A PAID ADMISSION 
On !ithor Tho Par 3 or The Minlotur~ 
Offer Expires September 14 
I 
at the end of the project." 
Workshops in Project Choice will be held monthly and will be at­tended by twenty administrators, administered by Ms. Hoover; 
representing  and  chosen  by  the  
South  Bend  Community  School  
'·'"-•K•nn•ur•.  The  ·  will  be  

directors-for the individual sessions will be Ur. Lanna Ruddy, assistant professor in the Department of Psychology, and Dr. Deanna Sokolowski, assistant professor in the Department of English. 
I 
South America for this year! I I 
I I AUDITIONS for all Saint Mary's College 
I 
Music Groups -Collegiate Choir, Madrigal I I Singe.rs, etc. -will be held in I 
I 309 .Moreau (SMC) I I I I I 
Today. (Sept. 3) and I I I Tomorrow (Sept. 4) I I I from 2-4 p.m. I 
I 
I 
I 
OPEN TO ALL OF ND-SMC COMMUNITVi 
---------~-----------------------------J 

I
Wednesday, September 3, 1975 the observer 3 I I 
Off Campus food co-op openingdelayed J 
organize and prepare for this "The first system with the 10 per availability to stuaents," Fit­year's co-op over the summer. .cent mark-up would require zgerald said. However, he was unable to remain careful bookkeeping and an ac­No target date can be set at the on campus over the summer due to curate indication of what the moment, Fit~gerald commented, personal reasons. For this reason, amount of sales will be," Fit­because everything depends on the Fitzgerald said, opening of the co­zgerald noted. "This is a major response of the students. "I would op will be delayed until later this drawback because if there are like to remind the students that a semester. fewer sales than expected, the co­co-op stands for cooperation and is 
. "I am as unhappy as those op would not be able to operate due dependent on a group of people and 
1people vho wanted to use the co-op to a lack of funds." not just one." that it could not get started any "I hope that the response of the sooner," Fitzgerald said. "All I Site Undetermined students to this drive for the co-op can say is please be patient. We will be a good one," Fitzgerald are giving it our full time and Although no sites have been stated. "What this drive is attention." chosen as of yet for the co-op, there primarily for, is new members. 
An important difference in the are three or four places being Those students who joined the .co­co-op that was planned in the considered, according to Fit­op last year and paid their $5.00 are spring semester from the one zgerald. Also, there are an ad­currently members of this co-op," Fitzgerald would like to establish, ditional two or three places being he noted. is that the former was to to be investigated. "I am trying to set up a group of based on a 10 per cent mark-up in "We are looking for a place with volunteers to work on the co-<>p in price. The latter system would sell minimal overhauling. We need a any way," he said. Those in­the food at cost with no mark-up. It site with adequate parking spaces, terested in working on the drive or ldepends on the flat monthly shelving, food security, an in­operating the co-op are asked to charge to cover all expenses. stalled electrical system and call Fitzgerald at 1542 or 7471. 
FOR YOUR BACK PACKING NEEDS 
233-8383 SIERRA SPORTS 2216 MIAMJ SOUTH BEND, IN. 
~~ Ghdonia~ . ~·-:,_ : 'autakt .nust 
~­
''Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
w:::::~========::=:========3:=:::::=:::=:::=-.::=::r.:======:::::=========================t 
~== 35 Varieties of Pancakes ::::
floor book department 
i~~;Chicken -Ste~.k -.-Sandwiches ~~ 
One result'of the closing will be the absence of a place for students 
;:!~Friday Nites: Perch Dinners :~:= 
to cash checks, a service offered 
:i:::::;:;:;:;:;::;::;::::::::::~::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::.~~~~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::Wi 
by the old Gilbert's store. Students Your Host
U.S. 31 (Oixieway) Notth
will have to cash checks at the 
.Across from Holiday Inn) a.b E;dwa.::ds~ NQ. '•. ministration Building), said Ryan. 
cashier's office (in the Ad­



ATTENTION 
ALL CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
If you're interested •
1n having 
your group represented at 
activities night to be held 
Sept. 16 You MUST attend 
a meeting on Sept. 8 
•
at 9 pm 1n LaFortune Ballroom. 
by~_t}tt needed capital has not been 
Staff Reporter estimated. 
The food, under the direct 
Student Body Vice-President charge system, would be sold at Tom Fitzgerald yesterday an­cost price with no mark-up, he nounced the organization of a drive stated. for a direct charge co-op for off­"The initial membership fee campus students. Fitzgerald would cover the cost of the driv~ expects the drive to bellin within for the co-op and the stocking, the next two weeks in ,order· to set remodeling and setting up an up the co-op as soon as possible. electrical system in the co-op. The 
weekly rate will cover anyThe purpose of the co-op is to 
maintenance charges incurred
supply off-campus students with such as rent and lights," Fit­food at a discount rate. It will be zgerald stated. 
opera ted on a direct charge 
The drive for a food co-op last system, according to Fitzgerald. 
semester was unsuccessfulUnder this arrangement students primarily due to an inadequateare charged an initial membership membership of five hundredfee to join the co-op and charged a people paying a membership fee of flat rate each week to support the $5.00 per person.
upkeep of the shop. Neither the initial fee nor the weekly rate have Opening Delayed 
yet been determined, Fitzgerald 1 said, because the amount 6f Steve Shankel was expected to 
by Maury Miller Starr Reporter 
Changing lifestyles and a fading 
market have been determined as 
the main reasons for the closing of 
the Gilbert's Men's Clothing 
Campus Store for the current 
school year. 
The store,which had been in existence since 1955, was closed at the end of the 1975 spring semester. 
According to Robert Hunt, president of the localiy owned store, "The campus shop was a victim of changing lifestyles. I'm afraid today it's basically a blue jeans and knit top market." Hunt pointed out how the coliege clothes market had changed in recent years from high volume variety clothes to the lesser volume products bought today. 
"I think the long range change in building is still uncertain,although apparel habits of young people is tentative plans for expansion of the the cause of the demise," said bookstore have been made. Ac­Hunt. cording to Brother Kieran Ryan, The university has indicated no Assistant Vice-president for specific preferences toward the Business Affairs, "We plan to future of the campus shop. "The incorporate that space into the university was most cooperative bookstore." He pointed out that with us," Hunt added. the bookstore has been crowded for The future of the now vacant a long time,especially in the upper 
Haldeman appeals case; claims first trial unfair 
WASHINGTON (APl -Law­claimed that pre-trial publ1city 
yers for H.R. Haldeman ap­made a fair trial impossible pealed his Watergate cover-up and that much of the publicity conviction Tuesday saying he was generated by the govern­was tried in an atmosphere ment itself. "supersaturated with the utter It also claimed Sirica should assumption of guilt." not have allowed the jury to 
hear the White House tapeThe appeal also accused the recordings and that Sirica gavetrial judge, John J. Sirica, of 
instructions that were "repeti­pre-trial maneuvering calcu­
tive, slanted in favor of thelat.~. ~o help the prosecution. 
government ... and improperly 
Haldeman, the White House directed the jury to return a chief of staff under former verdict of guilty." President Richard M. Nixon The cover-up trial began Oct. was convicted along with three 1 last year, less than two other men of conspiring to cov­months after the resignation of er up the Watergate affair. Hal­President Nixon. Haldeman had deman was sentenced to serve resigned as Nixon's top lieuten­2 1~ to 8 years in prison. ant on April 30, 1973 when the i 
The appeal filed Tuesday Watergate scandal was break-· with the U.S. Court of Appeals ing full-blown into print. 


a GeMta1 Store -Wbterbedl ­
113\W$t~St 

__:4:___ __:t..:...h:...::e"--....:o=b--=s:...::e~r:.._v.:.--=:e:..:..r____!wednesday, September 3, 1975 
Badin, Lewis residents comment 
McCormick stated that she bath to a shower. Also the showers drawback.
by Martha Fanning Lewis: better facilities
Staff Reporter missed living directly on the quad: here are not as modern and were "It's noisier but I like the old Another favorable aspect of the "It's also a longer walk to many not designed for women." dorm atmosphere rather than that more modern Lewis hall are the places on campus," she observed. The wiring of Badin is also a of the newer dorms," she con­
Last year's university decision 
better facilities. Mary McCor­The hall's location doesn't bother problem. The age of the dorm does cluded. .. to convert Lewis Hall from a mick, also a sophomore, com­Anne Molnar.. "I like the location not permit the siumultaneous use Badin is serving as temporarygraduate dorm to an un­mented, "There's a lot more space because I enjoy walking on of many utilities that Lewis could. hou~ng for female graduate
dergraduate residence relocating Another resident of Badin stated until more
here than in Badin. Each floor has campus," she explained. students moderngraduate students to Badin has she likes her present room. facilities are built. It will bea kitchen and there are more study met with mixed reactions from the "They've done a lot to improve the reconverted to an undergraduatelounges available." Lewis Hall Badin grads upsetwomen affected. Despite rooms," she stated. The lack of women dorm for the 1976 schoolresidents also have added con­renovations to both dorms, women veniences such as bathtubs, Graduate students moved into facilities downstairs however is a year.
switched from Badin Hall to Lewis 
elevators, and an absence of Badin are less enthusiastic about
Hall are pleased with the change in cockroaches. the change.
general, but most former Lewis 
Changing from Badin's One resident remarked that she
residenst object to their new 
predominantly single dorm life to hadn't like the switch when made
surroundings. 
the double in Lewis has been and still does not. "I prefer quiet 
Joan Martel, a sophomore living 
received favorably. "There are and the South Quad is very noisy."
in Lewis, stated "The rooms are 
advantages and disadvantages to "The two dorms," she continued, 
nice and completely adequate for 
both styles but I'm glad to have the "are not really comparable nor
two people." She also remarked 
opportunity to live in both a single adequate. For example there are
that many of the singles that were 
and a double," commented no bathtubs and of the
converted to doubles are larger 
McCormick. women in Lewis taki~~ a
than the: Badin doubles. 

Lewis is· mostly inhabited by 
MEN
Freshman. Anne Molnar stated that the dorm is nicer than she had expected. 
"The rooms seem a li:tle crowded but the facilities are nice," she observed. She also mentioned that she felt more 1satisfied with Lewis after visiting other female dormSl. "I originally. chose Lyons or Farley but they placed me in Lewis," she added. 
THEY'RE COMING 
HOME!!!
Location only complaint 
The only complaint made 
MOONLIGHT 
against Lewis was the location. "We usually miss any activities that are going on" remarked 

OASIS
Badin Hall
Martel.
Lewis Hall 
with Randy Martin
Ackerman takes 
NOW
new position as 
APPEARING
St. Leo vice pres. 
Dr. Robert L. Ackerman, for­merly the director of professional development at Notre Dame, will assume the position of vice­president for student af(airs at St. Leo's College in Tampa, Florida, this week. 
The 34-year old administrator 
I 
ended his stay at Notre Dame last Friday. Although Dr. Ackerman's role was concerned with student affairs, he also taught a few courses, including a seminar for RA's and an education course. 
Dr. Ackerman was beginning his fifth year at Notre Dame when he decided to accept this chance for 

®
professional advancement at St. Leo's. He came to the University after he completed graduateDr. Frank J. Fahey, 47, associate nesday at the McGann Funeral 


Sheraton
school University
professor of SocioloRy and An­Home. There will be a funeral at Indiana in 
Bloomington where he received his thropology, died in his sleep Mass Thursday at 10 a.m. in 
degree in administration.
yesterday morning after suffering Sacred Heart Church. a heart attack. He had been a member of the sociology faculty 
BOOGIE RECORDS BOO RECORDS ---i
since 1959. After receiving his bachelor, I I
Boogie Back To School With The Latest LP 
masters, and doctoral degree from I cg
by Daryl Hall and John Oates For
Notre Dame, completing his I 0
Onlv 4.49!
studies in 1959, he was post­0 doctoral fellow at the University of I G') 
' 
Chicago. He also taught at -... 
Nazareth College, Kalamazoo, ,.,
Michigan, from 1951 to.1953. ... 
1"'\
In 1962, he conducted a study of 
0 
the Studebaker plant shutdown and ,., had done research and a national ~ survey of the economic problems "'of Catholic school Enrollment. The I Ford Foundation funded his I research in rehabilitation of I juvenile\ delinquents and the I Department of Health, Education, I
For Our Upcoming Super Sale
and Welfare supported his studies I of youthful parolees. He also cg 
worked on Project ABLE which Rock * soul * Jazz • Blues * BlUegrass 0 
dealt with the problems of 0 unemployed persons over age 50. G') He was a past director of the office ...­of education research on campus. p.romptly! 
,.,
~e was a native of Lakewood,


r ...
Ohto and moved to South Bend in 
1"'\
r 919·8 College Square 0
1958. In 1950 he married Lillian r Toth. 
r 
~ 
I He is survived by his wi · Mishawaka, Indiana "' 
Lillian, two sons, Frank Jr. a 
"' 
Michael, and three daughte I
(across from Town & Country)
Sheila, Meg, and Tess. Sheila s
f I I
Frank both currently attend U t University. I 
RDS'
Friends may call from three five and seven to nine p.m. Wt 




Wednesday, September 3, 1975 the observer 5 
Prof. Scott named to Fellow post 
The selection of Dr. Joseph W. selected from more than 120 ap­American University of Fort Michigan State University, 1963 at Indiana University after Scott, associate professor of plicants for the prestigious in­Benning, Ga., University of University of Buenos Aires and receipt of a master's degree in the sociology and anthropology and ternship award. Candidates mus~ Kentucky, University of Litoral, University of Toledo. same study area in 1959. His director of the Black Studies have had three years of college The native of Hamtramck, graduate education was partially Program at the University of teaching experience and exhibited Mich., received cum laude honors financed by John Hay Whitney and Notre Dame, as a Fellow in a record of accomplishment in­at Central Michigan University National Institute of Health Academic Administration has dicative of substantial career where he was a varsity football fellowships. been announced by officials of the potential for academic ad­player and was selected as out­Scott is the author of 18 articles American Council on Education in ministration. The program is standing student senator and in scholarly publications, two Washington, D.C. Scott will serve underwritten by a grant from the distinguished military graduate. published book reviews, and a a host internship with Provost Lilly Endowment, Inc. He was a member of the debate book, "The Black Revolts and the Raymond W. Mack of Nor­A member of the Notre Dame team, oratory team, interpretative Politics of Racial Stratification," thwestern University during the faculty since 1970, Scott has been a reading team and served as scheduled to be published next 1975-76 academic year. F'ulbright lecturer in Argentina president of Tau Alpha Upsilon and spring. He has been a visiting
Nominated by Rev. Theodore M. twice and Rockefeller Visiting vice president of Pi Kappa Delta. lecturer at Toledo, Cornell, Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame Professor of Sociology at the and Kappa Delta Pi fraternities. Howard, Nebraska, Bowling. president, Scott is one of 40 faculty University of Ibadan, Nigeria. He His doctoral degree in sociology Green, Central Michigan, Wayne members or administrators 
has also held tea at and anthropology was awarded in (continued to page 11) 
MAKE YOUR SCHOOL ~EAR MORE COMFORTABLE•••MORE COLORFUL•••ECONOMICAL.l Y 
Carpet from Sandock's will beautify every room in your life. It helps insulate, saving heat. 
It combats cold morning floors that chill toes.. It adds rich color, comfort. Best of all, low 
prices save money! Hurry to Sandock's, choose from the area's largest selection, you'll be 
glad all year. 


ALL CARPET 
HURRY! OUT THEY GO! 
•Many other groups not llstedl *All subiect to prior salei 
•All 
pricing on a cash and carry baslsl 

•Delivery 
and installation avallble at a moderate prlcel 


PERFECT FOR DORMITORIES, HOMES 
APARTMENTS, KITCHENS, HALLS, CARS, 
BATHROOMS, TRAILERS, STEPS, ETC. 
Every Color & Style Imaginable 
l
1 
FINANCING 
Easy to find! Take U.S. 31 .North 
0 I .-.111.-1 AVAILABLE 
to Sandock's, Y3 mile before the
* BRING YOUR 
State line. Phone 272-4500. 
ROOM SIZE 
SHOP WEEKDAYS 10 TIL 9 
SAT 10-5:30 SUNDAY 1·6 

the observer Wednesday, September 3, 19!5 
Under Dr. Nahas' direction 
ND researches solar energy lor satellites 
Dr. Joseph J. Nahas, assistant professor of electrical engineering at Notre Dame, is involved in a NASA project to develop a system for solar energy collection and conversion to electrical power. He is using computer simulation to "optimize" operations on the earth end of the proposed satellite system. 
NASA plans to collect solar energy on a satellite orbiting the earth synchronoulsS' in order to be totally in sunlight except for a few minutes each spring and fall. An antenna about two-thirds of a mile in diameter will beam the energy back _to earth in the form of very hi_gh frequency radio waves. 
As new army chief 
Ar~ny opposes Gon~alves 
LISBON, Portugal (AP) -The chief of the Portuguese army joined the air force commander Tuesday in strongly opposing the appointment of pro-Communist Gen. Vasco Goncalves as com­mander of the armed forces. 
Army Chief of Staff Gen. Carlos Fabiao said Goncalves was the cause of disunity in the army. 
Goncalves, who was removed as premier Friday under pressure from fellow officers in Portugal's military government, made a personal appeal to an emergency session of 240 army officers meeting in a barracks at Tancos, 80 miles north of Lisbon. 
Sources at the meeting said senior officers rejected Goncalves' appeal and there were strong in­dications his opponents were gaining strength. 
There were unconfirmed reports that the army assembly had voted to oppose his installation as armed forces chief of staff. Newsmen were barred from the meeting. 
Goncalves left three hours after he arrived, returning to Lisbon. 
At the meeting were influential dissidents who had virtually forced President Francisco da Costa Gomes to drop Goncalves as premier. When Costa Gomes announced his plan to name 
~eeeeeeeeeee~·· I 
r_.·-!#Jere IS a •.. 
! 
: differeiJce!!! ~ 
• 
: MEIIIfUfE FOil: e 
: MCAT ~.:,r.:: ! : OAT -~CHI : : I • AT llull~._"' •.• 
~I Volu111i110111 hlmt
:• GRE :.
sliMly:teri1ls
: •~sa counn th•t •re • 
e ftl u CIIISIIIIIIJ upUIH e 
• OCAT r.,. IKohton tor : 
• rnoews el tills •
• cnaT 
lusonuocl lor Ull • I
• rftI ol supplt-llry • I
! FLEX ""'"~·· ! 
e Maloeups 101
: ECFMG 
nuiSHiusons : 
: SAT ;
! IAT'L MED BDS ! 
• Moot cl-• start 8 _.k, e • proor to e..m • e Sprine & Fell compec:u e 
• Some courMt offered on • 
• Ma1or C.rnpu•• • 
e TEST OATES e 
e MCAT 9-75 NMB'S 6-76 e 
: OAT 10.75 ECFMG 1-76 : 
LSAT 10.75 FLEX 12-75 e : GRE 10.75 OCAT 11·75 e e ATGSB 11-75 CPAT 9-75 e e SAT 11-75 VAT 12·75 e 
: INDIANAPOLIS : e M:ZO Grnnlhire Drive e 
• lndi..,.polis, Incl. '\8220 e • 13171 142-1:217 • 
e CHICAGO CENTER e 
• 13121 714-5151 • 

ill !i
e liOUCATIOIIW. CINTE" e
:~==:.....-;j
.,.,.._,._u,12111--c.,... ' •• 
. -J 
"Although the system will have a very large transmitting antenna and a very narrow transmission beam," Nahas said, "the great distances lnvolvedl, about 26,000 
miles, will !result in a widely dispersed beam on the receiving end." 
Consequently, a circular receiving area about six miles in diameter will be required to collect the microwaves and convert them to DC electrical power. The field will consist of approximately ten billion small, identical converters on a series of panels. Because of the quantity of elements required, Nahas said, "they had better be cheap and efficient, that is, the 
Goncalves to head the armed an even tougher denunciation offorces they renewed their cam­
Goncalves by Gen. Jose Marais dapaign, fearing he would use the Silva, head of the air force, on 
post to increase Communist in­Monday. The president calledfluence. 
Morais da Silva on the carpet toThe army chi~>f's stand followed 

~>xolail}_ his open insuborilinatiol~n~.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
' 

llelcome Back! 
If you live in a residence hall, ask us about the STUDENT BILLING CARD. With this· card you can make long distance calls from your room at direct dialed rates. It's a lot easier and more economical than a collect call or a coin phone call. Drop by the Indiana Bell Busi­ness Office and get your STUDENT BILLING CARD today! 
If you live in an apartment and need telephones installed, call our Business Office. 
Indiana Bell 
elements can'tlose energy as heat. That's where this project comes in." 
The Notre Dame specialist in solid state devices has developed a mathematical model of the 2-lh­inch-long T-shaped conversion element which consists of a di_pole antenna, filters, and a diode. 
"Like 99 per cent of the world, thi_s is a highly nonlinear system. Ninety-nine per cent of analysis, however, is designed for linear systems," Nahas commented. 
He runs computer simulations of the model's complex operation, varying about a dozen parameters to find out how they influence the operation of the element and to determine the optimum mix. So far, his model has shown a con­version efficiency of 80 per cent. He has identified the points of energy loss and hopes to increase thedeficiency to 85 to 90 per cent. 
In the fall, Nahas expects to supplement his calculations with 
1111xxpe:~~~:~~~ri•·m111e 1 rk0.~H•e•w•il•lE:lb.uild•suppoOQr•te"d biCy10CaiiCgMrxaMn..t froiXMm:IONCIIADIS..A.
111t111
1e 111n a00w0o0 111111 1111110 1111 11 
KAGEL'S FLOWERS & GIFTS 
Phone 233-2232 602 North Michigan-across from Memorial Hospita·l
* 
Wire service

* 
Green plants to liven up your rOOm


C
Ome See US SOOn! 
an element designed in a coaxial system for better control, which he can use to verify his computer simulations. 
A Notre Dame faculty member since 1971, Nahas received his master's and Ph. D. degrees in electrical engineering from Purdue University. His work is 
....... 
. -. . . . .• '.­
.. --.-................... -.. -............ --.... -.-.... --.... . 

------------------~------. 
.!l~ay, septembe~_:,~.-.....:t-=-h:....;::e observer 
ND team improves heart valve 

Engineers at the University of Notre Dame are trying to copy the aortic heart valve, nature's most important designs. 
Researchers are trying to im­prove artificial heart valves now in use because many of them produce unnatural flow patterns resulting in severly deformed red blood cells and massive clot formations. The natural aortic heart valve is a strong but paper-thin, tri-leaflet valve which opens completely, allowing the blood to flow through unimpeded with virtually no back-flow, washing the aortic walls and valve as it goes. 
Nature's leaflet design has not yet been copied successfully because of difficulties in finding materials both flexible and long­lived. The compromise has been variations in the stress-causing caged ball, caged disc and tilting 
designs. 
Engineers at the University of Notre Dal'l\e have developed elaborate techniques and sensitive equipment for testing and evaluating artificial valves for their potential to destroy red cells and cause clots, before they are used in a patient. In the process the researchers also have develooed a silicone rubber leaflet valve closely resembling nature's own. 
Dr. Thomas J. Mueller and Dr. 
(continued from page 1) remarked Nolan. "It is impossible to findworkersat exam time or the first week back at school." "We make an effort to provide good service at a good cost, but this will probably be the last year because of the volume," he added. Besides running the summer storage program. the Student Union is involved with the book exchange being held throughout this week from l-5 p.m. on the second floor of LaFortune. Students may bring in books 
Indiana Bell has misnomerat SMC 
A 'list of important telephone numbers put out by Indiana Bell and distributed lo St. Mary's students as a ·public service in­correctly lists 284-4854 as the number for directory information. Anyone wishing to obtain the phone number of a Sl. Mary's student or office should call the College Switchboard al '!32-3031. 
lni~3]2JJJ
MI~HAWAKA AT 10TH
AV!NU! 
SHOWROOM HOURS 
MONDAY 9:30 -8:30
,~HoLyGlt~IL 
FROM CINEMAlJ 
TUES thru SAT 
~OR TIMES 
9:30 • 5:30
PHONE 288~8488 
John R. Lloyd of the Department of Aerospace and Mechnical Engineering, and Dr. Eldred H. MacDonell, a physician and ad­junct associate professor in the department, are applying engineering design principles to help reduce the artificial heart valve problems. Using a mock circulatory system and other specially designed pumping equipment, they have determined the flow characteristics created by three models of artificial valves. The next step is to gather and evaluate data on particular valve , designs in order to make recom­

*...,
*· 
: g 
: 
!
;: 
* 
*
*
* r­
*
! :;; 
: ell' 
~t>
* z
Dr. Thomas J. Mueller, an engineer at the University of Notre 
! c 
Dame,studies blood flow in his research into the design of an ar­;:tificial heart valve which copies as closely as possible the action of a natural .one. 
*
~·· 
Student Union sponsors 

SOME OF TODAYS' MOST WANTED 
book drive and rug sale 
VALUE HOUSEITEMS AT SHOWROOM SAVINGS! 
today; book sales start Thursday. 
VISIT OUR SHOWROOM
CATALOG!SHOWROOMS
Also, unpainted furniture and 
rugs are for sale at Stepan Center, 
AND 
and refrigerators are available for 
Distributors of Fine Jewelry andrGifts. 
COMPARE OUR PRICES
rent at the fieldhouse. Tht-Student Union is sponsoring 
Your Headquarters for nationally advertised brands
the movie discount tickets agian 
this semester. These are valid for 
• Calculators
one dollar off the regular price at all Plitt theaters including those at 
e Typewriters
Scottsdale and Town and Country, and the State Theater in South 
ecameras 
• 
Stereos & TelevlsiOI"' 

• 
Columbia Bicycles •Luggage 


PRESTO TilT 'N STORE PORTABlE RANGE 
A convenient, compact cooking unit for home, office, dormitory, cottage, trailer. Entire unit tilts up for compact storage. Infinite heat control for wide range of cooking temperatures. Once heat control is set, proper temperature is maintained automatically. Heating element tilts up for easy cleaning. Attrac­tive pumpkin color, modern styling -handsome enough for entertaining. 
MODEL PR1P 
NOW Value House Catalog Price APPEARING 
$14.97 
·while they last 
,whlie supplies last
above model available In walnut and coppertone finish..•$109.97 
mendations on their use and to has endured the equivalent of design is to try it in animals. I suggest design improvements. seven years of operation _without Sheep probably will be u:seu 
Research also is progressing on failing or being destr~.Ye.d, because they are the easiest to the "Notre Dame leaflet valve." although the leaflets have lost work with and monitor. If work on Right now, the. engineers are some flexibility. the valve 'continues to go well, experimenting with the mixture of Mueller and Lloyd said the next Mueller said, testing in animals ingredients in the synthetic rubber stage in testing the new valve could begin next year. material used to mold the valve. ,..._... ......,...........................................................,. 
Theyaretryingtofindthemixture * 
with the best flexing properties It which also will endure many years l -1 of pumping. They test the mixture ! n 
by molding a valve and placing it ~ in an accelerated testing device * ~ which compresses years of lf-m
pumping into weeks or months. : U: 1 The valve currently in the tester 
** 
WELCOME BAC
K 
TO HOPS N' SPIRITS 
6 PACK BEER-$1.15-TWO KINDS 
12 PACK BEER-$2.88-TWO KINDS lf2 BBl BEER-$22.00-TWO KINDS 
812 S E. LASALLE so. BEND Ind. .
h
P one 287-2581 
....................................................¥.* 



'lALUE HO.USE
VH 
• SOUTH BEND-516 N. MICHfGAN ST. • MISHAWAKA-1428 W. 6th ST. 
eDesk Lamps 
• 
Hot pots and plates 

• 
Other student requirements 


all at famous low VALUE HOUSE 
catalog prices 

2 CU. FOOT 
COMPACT REFRIGERATOR by Avanti 
Features temperature control. Ice cube tray White baked enamel extenor 
nal roll about stand m•ailable 
VALUEHOUSE SPECIAl 
$99.99 
*
* 
of : 
..o. 1 
~ 
t-* 
A. If­
~ ! ..... "f'** 
~ * 
en : 
:
* 
: 
* 
.... ** 
en * 
o ~ t* ZDI: ~ 
* 
~ * 
0 ·1 
u ; 
*' 


The Observer 
on independent student newspaper 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Aci '•P.rtising Manager 
EDfTOR1."1._ 'aOAI\D 
AI Rutherford, Mnnaging Editor; Fred Graver. Executive Editor; Jim Eder, Edtlori,11 Editor l<.•·n GtrouMd. News Editor; Pal :-ianilin, CamJ.<.-"rJitor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's~ difor i<.!'n Bo ,,dtord. Copy Editor, Bill Brinl<.. Sp~. .. aitor; Tom O'Neil. Features Editor 
i... hrts Sn11th, Photo Editor 
Editor1.1ls: 28l..a661 
N~ws l~8J~I~71~S------~B~us~m~~~"'~2~81~·~74~71~------------~l 
Wednesday, September 3, 1975 
Our Way 
A new school year has begun. With the opinion of the University of Notre Dame start of the year the Observer is entering or St. Mary's College. They are written its tenth year of publication. For those by a member of the Editorial Board for new students not familiar with the Ob· the majority of the Board. server, it is an independent newspaper 
Letters to the E dltor 
operated by the students of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. The paper is Letters to the Editor are the opinion of financed independently of the University the person· or persons who sign the letter. through paid advertising and revenue All letters must be signed, but names will from subscriptions. be withheld upon request. 
It is the duty of the Observer to inform The Observer reserves the right to edit the community of events that affect their all letters for length and taste. lives. This is accomplished for events on campus by a staff of student reporters Columns and editors. To keep the community 
The Observer maintains open columninformed of national and international space for students and members of the events, stories from wire service reports Univ~rsity community. Columns mayare used daily. 
deal with a variety of issues ranging from Along with the duty to accurately the campus to the world, with somereport the news is the obligation to fairly written by well-known syndicatedcomment on and interpret the news. 
columnists.
Interpretation of the news is to be found Choice and placement of columns is the solely on this page··the editorial page·· decision of the editorial editor. Columnsthrough editorials, columns and letters to reflect only the opinion of the author, notthe editor. 
that of the Observer, the Editorial Board, The Observer Editorial Board has or the University.
recently adopted a new editorial policy. 
It has been said that the editorial page The policy is intended to more clearly is the conscience of a newspaper. For theidentify the nature of the views expressed Observer editorial opinion plays such a on the editorial page. 
role. Now at the beginning of this year,Editorials the Observer staff would like to affirm its 
Editorials are an expression of the commitment to speaking out on the opinion of the majority of the Editorial issues. At the same time it invites Board. Unlike editorials in past years, members of the community to do the 
they are not signed by the author. same through columns and letters to the Editorials do not necessarily reflect the editor· 
----------------------the observer----------------------­
Night Editor: Dan Sanchez Day Editor: Maureen Flynn Typists: Mel Celeste, Howard Assistant Night Editor: Bob Brink Copy Reader: Fred Herbst, Kathy Halle, Jim Landis, Anne Peeler Layout Staff: Mary Janca, 
Mills Compugraphic: Carolina Maureen Flynn, Tim O'Reilly, Tim Editorials: II mlgllor Fabbro Night Controller: Carolina and 
HowardKrause, Martha Fanning, Bob Features: Tom O'Neil, Tim 
Massa•, Liz Donovan, Tom O'Relley, Maureen Flynn Picture Screener: Chris Smith Kruczek, Mike Saratan, Gregg Sports: Bill Brink, Ernie Torrlero, Ad Layout: Pat Russell, Mike Bangs Tom Kruczek Miller, Joe Graif, Tom Whelan 
s e r iaus ly! faI k s !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ The Big Issue iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiii!iii~iiiiiii a r t buc: hwa I d 
she spoke out for premarital stood on oil, the Middle East and
MARTHA'S VINEYARJ?, Mass.­
relations. Poor Susan. No guy will New York City, but there was -The difference between this year make a move." always that lingering doubt in my and last year on Martha's Yin­
"I wish I had thought of it," mind about where Mrs. Ford stood ' eyard was that last year we were Mcintosh said. "I've got an 18-on premarital bundling. It's year-old daughter and the public healthy to have a First L&dy who
ail talking about Nixon's resignation and this year we were 
couldn't care less what she does." tells it as it is." talking about whether Susan Ford 
"The same with my daughter," I "I wish Mrs. Mcintosh saw it should have an affair or not. 
said. "I don't have one Secret that way," Mcintosh said. 
The island is about equally Service man to watch her when she "Whenever my daughter goes out divided on the issue. The Up­goes out on a date. Susan has at with one of the great unwashed, Islanders believe Mrs. Ford did the least a dozen." my wife goes up the wall." right thing when she said on "If Ford gets elected in '76," "Is she afraid your daughter is television that premarital Mcintosh said, "Susan won't be going to have sex?" relations with the right person able to go to a drive-in movie with "No," said Mclnntosh, "She's might help lower the divorce rate. a guy alone until she's 21." afraid out kid is going to get 
The Down-Islanders were "And if Ford gets re-elected in cholera." shocked an.d felt that, as First 
'80, Susan will be watched night "I dig," I said. Lady, it was Mrs. Ford's duty to 
and day until she's 24," I said. "I wonder if it will hurt Ford's speak out against pillowing before 
"Then it really doesn't matter chances in the election'?" one got married. 
whether she has an affair or not," "Your . daughter getting Mcintosh, my tennis partner, 
Mcintosh said. cholera'?" thought Mrs. Ford purposely said 
"If she isn't married by then, "No," said Mcintosh, "Mrs. what she did to guarantee that most people will feel she's en-Ford saying she wouldn't kick Susan would not have an affair. 
titled." Susan out of the White House if she "What do you mean?" I asked. "Why do you think people got so admitted to having an affair." "Well, after all this publicity, mad at Mrs. Ford for saying_ she "It won't unless the Democrats 
Susan Ford is the only girl in wouldn't be upset if Susan. told her make something of it." America who doesn't have a she was having an affair·· " "How could they do that?" "Most of the people who got Mcintosh asked.
chance. of having an affair with 
anybody. The whole world is angry know they have no control "They could put out bumper watching her now and she can't over what their kids do and they stickers which read, "Can Susan make a false move." ' were mad that the wife of the Ford chew gum and smooch at the 
"My gosh." I said. "I never· President said it out loud." same time?" thought of that. Mrs. *rc1 Jmew "I'm glad she said it," I ad-exactly what she wa~Aing when mitted. "I knew where Gerry Ford 
Dlllnlaft. 
Good-Bye 
To Charisma 
tany prasc:ia 
Her husband hadn't said anything so interesting in months. 
When Betty Ford in two separate interviews last month began trotting out her. sexual attitudes in public, country preachers, dimestore moralists and Congressional Democrats all rushed to their pulpits to decry Lady Lust in the bedclothes of Caesar. 
But even more secular observers noticed a twist. Mrs. Ford's remarks were the first headline-grabbers to come from anyone in the First Family in some time. At least all the sex talk reminded voters that there still is, after all, a campaign. 
In f.e.ct, the only kind of catchy publicity the Ford organization seemed to be mustering was homely clan trivia (one wirephoto showed the Presidennn his pajamas). Even at the Summer's controversial Helsinki Extravaganza, the week's memorable quote was still from son Jack, who called the events in Finlandia Hall the "most boring part" of the trip. 
So where are the catchy siogans, the elaborate promises, the tasteless songs? Not so fast. 
Plain Jane 
Hardly the man for a charisma-campaign, the President appears increasingly willing to rely on the safe (if . rather boring) or­dinary-guy approach. While "Fresh Start" was proving a puny imitation of such slogans as "New Frontier" and "Great Society," the phrase "Plain Old Jerry" was sprawled across pages of both lop news magazines. More and more, Mr. Ford seems convinced that a Plain-Jane incumbent can defeat a herd of zealous Congressmen. 
He may be right. If the promise of a Do-Nothing administration seems and odd platform for a disciple of Harry Truman, it may still be a reading of public will to rival the Missourian himself. Watergate went far to convince many Americans that active government is possible only by deceit and double-dealing. Tired of being duped, voters-just maybe--will prefer a quiet government that solves problems and lays low. 
It will be an odd spectacle: a humdrum executive re-elected by accusing legislators of doing their job. Seems far-fetched. But when being creative is made to look suspicious, mediocrity necessarily becomes a political virtue. 
It is a virtue, furthermore, on which Mr. Ford may have cornered the market. Republicans have argued all along that busybody policies espoused by Democrats have been an imposition on traditional freedoms. Apparently resting on Kissinger laurels and castor-oil economics, the President enjoys a rare opportunity to espouse nothing in particular and call it a platform. 
Pajama Politics 
It's almost sure to please. In the popular passion for blandness, a President whose chief liabilities are an overly liberated wife and badly pressed pajamas can only be successful. What matter if his assets are equally nondescript? 
So unless some Democrat can find a way to stay in the headlines without doing anything interesting, Mr. Ford has a valuable head start. And even if someone manages to yawn his way to promin­cence, in a battle of insignificance the Ford organization is well armed. 
For the time being, then, the First Lady will have to shelve the bedroom chatter, speechwriters will put away their thesaurus, and make-up men can work on artificial acne for Jack. If Democrats intend to catch up, they will have to get moving. 
Grand Rapids carpenters have already started a log cabin. 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

r------------------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, September 3, 1975 the observer 
9 


'Breach of Faith· The Fall of Richard Nixon 
A definitive text on Watergate may never be written, but a remarkable and objective account, juxtaposed by the• presidency and the person of Richard Nixon has been written by T.H. White in 
Breach of Faith, the  top­ 
selling  hard-cover  in  
America today.  

The book is subtitled "The Fall of Richard Nixon" and deals extensively with the president, his rise to power 
and his eventual downfall and retreat from the walls of the White House. This book, however, though scholarly researched and rendered , h(\s been the subject of ridicule by spokesmen of both the extreme political right and left.. 
But White is as objective with his subject as is possible today. He tells us that "Richard Nixon alone had been able to destroy Richard Nixon" and that Nixon's "perception of power ... was flawed, as his character was flawed." These theoretical judgements may not be befitting an objective historian, but he balances them neatly with the presidential ac­complishments of Richard Nixon and the good of the man, and his dream· of international peace. 
He begins his narration of the fall of Richard Nixon with the July 24th Supreme Court decision demanding that Nixon release the presidential tapes, and continues from that point to scope Nixon's last few days in the White House. He takes us back then to Chicago in 1952, the host city for both political conventions of that year, and simultaneously shows 
September begins the new television season this year, and along with the new series to be aired will be some outstanding motion pictures. Among them are the following movies: 
Cabaret--Winner of eight Academy Awards. A superb movie dealing with a decadent night-dub in Berlin contemporary with the rise of Naziism. To be shown Sept. 14 on ABC. 
us the rise of Richard Nixon and the early seeds of his moral and political destruction. 
1952 was the dawning period of the "politics of manipulation" <As White describes itl--the emergence of television as an all-embracing power to be dealt with. It's emergence coincided with that of Richard Nixon's in the national spotlight, and it was Nixon who was 
a review 
tremendously from his 1960 
bid for the presidency. He 
learned the importance of 
control <what, in White's 
estimation, "politics is all 
about") and learned that 
the absolute loyalty of staff 
members was 
imperative It was 
this loyalty and control , 
however, which were to 
lead to the crime and 
conspiracy of Watergate, 
and later the cover-up 
involving the president. 

among the first to take advantage of it. It saved his political life with the Checker's Speech of that same year, and, ironically twenty years later, was perhaps the most destructive instrument of his downfall. 
White traces carefully the political rise of Richard Nixon, and attempts as much as he safely can, to illustrate the evolution of his political thought and philosophy. Nixon learned 
The cover-up is portrayed in Breach of Faith with the complexity of objectivity. The attitude of the president was one of human magnanimity toward those tie loved and those who had broken the law. He personally ab­solved them of their crime, and in a deeply personal reaction to the possibility of their imprisonment, he joined them in concealing 
by Thomas 
politics. Johnson had used surveillance tactics against Goldwater, etc.. The wrong, as Nixon must have imagined it, was minimal and pardonable .. In short, White describes Nixon's reaction with the cover-up as being a more personal 
reaction  than  a  political  
one.  
Understandably,  Richard  

Nixon must have thought 
himself infallible. His mandate of 1972 and the peace settlement in Vietnam had an in­toxicating effect upon him. 1972 had been one of the greatest years of prosperity in American history and Nixon's con­tinued popularity was reinforced monthly in the polls. 
But the seeds of his downfall had already been planted. Whether or not they would flower into scandal had yet to be seen. But White seems to believe and imply that it was inevitable that it would happen. This, of course, is hardly the case, but White is a political Romantic, and can theorize all he wishes with his belief (however subconscious or Tolstoistic) that fate is ordained. 
It is another Romantic belief of his ,however, that his critics have ridiculed him for, and labeled him somewhat niave. The passage most disputed is 
1The true crime of Richard Nixon was simple: he destroyed the myth that binds Amerlcq together ... (But) of all the political myths out of which the Republic was born 
... none was more hopeful than the crowning myth of the Presidency--that the 

the matter. After all, White 1 people, in their shared tells us, the · game was wisdom, would be able to 
TV season offers great films 

The Last of Sheila-An all­star cast in an excellent mystery. It involves the widower of a slain movie actress (a producer) who tnvites six famous Hollywood personalities aboard his yacht to join in a deadly game. to be shown -Sept. 13 on NBC. 
Red Sun---Charles Bron.·on belongs to a band of outlaws who fight over the spoils of a train robbery. To be shown Sept. 18 on CBS. 
Later in the season you can look forward to seeing such greats as The ~und of Musac, Sleeper, Murder on the Orient Express, both Godfathers, and The Lords of Flatbush, as well as a host of others. This season promises to be one of the best in television history for motion pictures. Do not be foolish and miss it. 
O'Neil 
choose the best man to lead them. From this came a derivative myth--that the Presidency, the supreme · office, would make noble any man who held its responsibility. The office would burn the dross from his character; his duties would, by their very weight, make him a superior man ..... ...Richard Nixon behaved other­wise.... The faith was 
shattered. 
Most of White's critics today are arguing that the myth is a fabrication of White's, or that if it does exist that none but the intellectually limited believe it at all. 
But this is not at issue. The fact remains that if the myth of presidential 

purification existed, it was 
shattered by Watergate, 
and that if it did not exist 
before it certainly does not 
exist today. There is 
certainly no cause to 
dismiss the work of one of 
Ame:·ica 's most admirable 
joumalists for his 
theorizing,: 
All canQidates, 
historically, White tells us, 
have "broken the laws of 
election practice," but for 
the president, once elected, 
it becomes an imperative, 
that he must not, and if he· 
should do so, he breaches 
not only the law, but the 
faith of a nation. ­
The former was the crime of Richard Nixon, for which he could be par­doned. The latter was his sin, for which there is no 
absolution. 


Monty PYthon 
is 'ridiculous' 
Monty Python & the Holy 
GraUjs a ridiculous motion picture . It was a movie made for college students: the situations are so bizarre they are funny for no other 'reason, there is slapstick, intelligent jokes, and moments when you believe you are watching either the Theater of the Absurd or vintage Laugh-in routines. The plot of the movie naturally concerns itself with the pursuit for the 
Holy Grail in Old J:srttain. The medieval tales are parodied not quite as Cervantes had done with Lhem, but much like it, with lessons since learned from silent film comedies and vaudeville. • 
The movie is not con­funny, however, as consistently as their 30· epi:sod'es on public There are ertainly redemptive of high farce-such one where two knights · sword-fighting, and 
Wln ••n>'h 4~ where· King Arthur, en route to finding the ~rai! (a miaaion from God> 
Bridge of Death, but -other . scenes are either redun­dant in their humor or simply not funny at all. 
This is a difficult movie to review. There are cer­tainly two factions in each audience which either disliked it generally, or ) believed it to be a masterpiece of comedy. One should be familiar with ' Monty Python before going to view the movie. It will serve as a definite ad-i 
f 
I 
vantage in appreciating it. But overall it is an enJ tertaining hour and a half spent at the local bijou. You'll have some difficulty following the jumbled dialogue and some scenes .with no apparent direction br·1resolution, but that is characteristic of Monty 
Python. Also the ending of the picture is quite abrupt. .It ends in the middle of a scene, making, some viewers~ believe· it to be a techniclil ertor. but naturally it is not. It is typical Monty Python, elljoyable Monty Python 
•!!.~ an apt !nding to-a 
There's a Girl in my Soup-­Peter Sellers and Goldie Hawn in a comedy about a gourmet writer whose life is changed when a young girl moves in with him. To be shown Sept. 22 on NBC. 
The Man Who Loved Cat Dancing---Burt Reynolds and Sarah Miles in a west,ern for advocates of women's liberation. A good and fast-moving film. To be shown Sept. 27 on NBC. 

Diamonds are Forever-­Sean Connery as James Bond pursuing an arch villain who has devised a master plan for conquering the world by using an ar­med satellite. To be shown Sept. 12 on ABC. 
The April Fools--Comedy starring Jack Lemmon concerning a society gal who falls for a fun-loving nobody. To be shown Sept. 15 on NBC. 
---~---~-~ 
~ ~ 
10 the observer Wednesday, September ~!75 




O'Brien linked to disappearance 
DETROIT (AP)-A prosecutor earlier reports that trained dogs restaurant where the ex-investigation." believe that Charles O'Brien has 
Teamsters boss was last seen.
have detected Hoffa's scent in the At a court hearing where the used Joseph Giacalone'ssaid Tuesday that hair found in a 
The Hoffa family said he told 
car seized by the FBI is similar in back seat and trunk of the car. government sought to keep automobile to facilitate an ab­
them he planned to meet the elder 
Guy cautioned against drawing custody of the car, Hunterton read duction of Hoffa, and that the said color to that of missing ex­
Giacalone, who denies he was to
conclusions from the hair samples. ~from a sworn FBI affidavit which abduction constitutes the use ofTeamsters boss Jimmy Hoffa, but "Hair analysis is not like have met Hoffa on that day. said "probable cause exists to force and violence."
cautioned against drawing any fingerprint analysis," he said. "It Joseph Giacalone wants-thheconclusions from that evidence. 
will not establish identity." federal court to order the car beAttorneys for the U.S. govern­
i.....iiEADS-GALLERY·····~
returned, but Guy said in the
ment told a federal court the FBI O'Brien has acknowledged h€ 
statement that giving it back now
believes the car was used by was driving the car on July 30, tht' "would seriously impair the
Hoffa's foster son, _Charles ! OFFERING:
day Hoffa disappeared, near a 
government's ability to follow
"Chuckie" O'Brien to "facilitate fashionable suburban Detroit 
an abduction of Hoffa." through on a major lead in this iTHOUSANDS OF IMPORTED BEADSi 
U.S. Atty. Ralph B. Guy Jr. . ~ --. . 
listed the hair samples as one t • JPORCELAIN-THE BEAD GALLERY :
• 
reason the FBI should be per­
Steel product1on.1ncreases 1ouve wooD-. 22oe. MISHAWAKA Ave.:
mitted to keep in custody the car belonging to Joseph "Joey" • ONYX-•
NEW YORK (APl -Steel 80.631,000nettons,decreaseof17.8 •SANDALWOOD ·MISHAWAKA, IND. :Giacalone, 22, son of reputed Mafia production climbed to 2,038,000 net per cent from the 98,066,~ net : --•Chieftain Anthony "Tony Jack" tons in the week ended Aug 30, an tons the previous year. The mdex • TRADE-259-1441 :Giacalone. 
increase of 3.9 per cent over the for the ye~r to date was 9~.6, : :In a statement filed with the 
federal court, Guy said, "Human preceding weeks .1,962,000 net compa~edwith116.~a~earearher. : MACRAME JEWELRY & SUPPLIES • 
tons the American Iron and Steel The mdex by districts for the • •hair samples taken from the car.. 
Institute reported Monday.. week ended Aug. 30: ~ortheast : : .are consistent with the color of The production index, with 100 Coast, 63; Buffalo, 24; Pittsburgh, • MONDAY THRU FRIDAY 9 7 •James R. Hoffa's hair." 
equalling the 1967 weekly average, 83; Y~ungstown, ~9; Cleveland, ~5; : -:Guy's statement, also signed by rose to 83.5 from 80.4 ~etrOI~, 97; Chic~go, 99; Cm-: SATURDAY 9-5 :
special U.S. Justice Department Atty. Stanley Hunterton, verified Estimated figures for the year to cmnati, 91; St. Loms, 88; Souther •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
date showed • at 1 and Western, 88 
Speni's Pro Shop is one of the largest tennis Specialty shops in the Midwest! 
Famous lines • Head • Tretorn ·Rawlings ·DAVIS that are in •Wilson • Ektelon Adidas ·SAl our large ·Top Seed ·Voit BATA ~-Jason Empi inventory D-nn Fred. Perry
·lzod ...,. ·~paldin·l 



PRo:s.-.. 
_., Foot-Joy 3'1J· Sou·I . ., "'" 
.,...,.._..FII.U.I.IIIP.I...... Jf.IU.115,JL ••• SII.U,J.Io~P.I. iC , ~ 
. ... . •-~.;.~..;...;_...____~-;..;~---.__So_-.-•--~. otre IJ_a.....e 
Mail to Speni's Pro Shop I _... ~ IllC:Up and Mail 321 s. Notre Dame, South Bend. i I .Br,ng . . ·. . 
1
I. oearGene,putmeonvourmalllngllstfortennls specials I _ on./o(l~1t~his Od Ond W · ~--. ~~-1112 Coupon I -. I to all .IOIJo/ 10 . ~ WIIJ/ offer 
Name--N.o.··St ~ Nl .Pf!rcent d" . 
1 
: ::ress Zip 
l·------..·-11o ry1111·s~:~~~~!d!;::~;~~;;~t!;;_~jt

L 11 
----------------~ 
Wednesday, September 3, TtJS the observer 1 1 
t
Pact to enlarge UN Sinai force 
f· 
TEL AVIV, Israel (AP) ­The U.N. Emergency Force, a thin human shield between the Israeli and Egyptian armies, began plans Tuesday to expand its Sinai Desert buffer zone and coordinate with American tech­nicians under the pact worked out by Secretary of State Henry 
A. Kissinger. 
Four thousand UNEF troops have been sweltering in the desert since Kissinger's ' last Sinai agreement 20 months ago, manning a narrow strip be­tween Israeli and Egyptian guns near the Suez Canal. 
Under the new accord initial­ed Monday, Israel agreed to pull back its front and hand over 1,520 square miles to the 
U.N. force for a vastly ex­panded buffer zone. The zone will include five electronic ear­ly warning stations to be manned by up to 200 American civilian technicians. 
Stationing the American tech­nicians here requires U.S. con­gressional approval. Some members of Congress, in­cluding Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield, D-Mont., fear that it could lead to another V i e t n a m-type involvement. However, ~issinger and the White House are convinced Congress will go along. 
The accord specifies that the early warning network will be under U.S. control, but it will work in conjunction with the 
U.N. force. 
Israeli Defense Minister Shi­mon Peres conferred Tuesday with Finland's Lt. Gen. Ensio Siilasvuo, chief coordinator of all U.N. forces in the Middle East. They discussed the Kis­singer accord, the expanded buffer zone and the redeploy­ment of Egyptian, U.N. and Is­raeli forces. 
Siilasvuo, a veteran of almost 20 years of peacekeeping in the Mideast, will be intimately in­volved in the new Kissinger 
pact. Siilasvuo is to be chair­would not know for five years passes -which Israel relin­man of the meetings at Geneva whether the accord benefited quishes in the accord --were where Israeli and Egyptian Israel, depending on whether vital to defense of the Sinai. delegates decide how to put the war broke out in that time. accord into action, and will ref­U.S. officials in Kissinger's eree a joint Israeli-Egyptian Gur said the new milita1 y party said Monday that by pull­commission later. lines gave Israel good defensive ing back from the passes, Is­
scope and a springboard for an rael had surrendered some mil­
Lt. Gen. Mordechai Gur, Is­offensive if necessary. Months itary advantage but had not 
rael's chief of staff, who initial­ago, Gur's generals had insist­significantly weakened its de­ed the agreement, said he ed that the Mitla and Gidi fenses. 
Named as Fellow 
Prof. Scott active in serving 
(continued from page 5) 
Ohio, and Kentucky Training as a member of the advisory State, Western Michigan and Project, and as a consultant for committee for the Notre Dame Southwestern Minnesota State other community programs. Center for Civil Rights. Universities. At Notre Dame he has served as He is a member of the 
The Notre Dame professor has chairman of the Black Student Association of Social and also served as human relations Affairs Committee, of the 1974-75 Behavioral Scientists, African trainer for the Indiana State Summer Session program of the Heritage Study Society, American Department of Public Instruction Department of Sociology and Sociological Association where he in South Bend, as principal in­Anthropology, as a member of the is section chairman of the vestigator for Model Cities admissions committee and the professional ethics committee, and Housing Project Evaluation, committee on appointments and council member of North Crime and Delinquency Project in promotions of his department, and Central Sociological Society. 

The uncompromising ones. 
,,_" ,, 2 3 y 5 6 l 8 2 s 
'~ 
OFF ON PRGM RUN 
FIX SCI ENG SST BST GTO u D 
i 8 E­
x~y R+ STO RCL E+ 
., 
'"" 
CLEAI'I PREFIX PRGM REG • STK 
ENTER t::· CHS EEX CLX 
OEG RAO GJ~O 
X<y In log •R 
x~y sln cos tan
f. II B 
x;ey INT IX" yx 
•H.MS LAST x PAUSE
. "••••x:y g­
)i•••• 
'i(:Jzli M • W L a T T • 'P. A 0 ~A .. 0 ­
The Hewlett-Packard HP-25 Scientific Programmable $195.00* 
The calculations you face require no less. 
Today, even so-called "non-technical" courses (psych, soc, bus ad, to name 3) require a vari-· ety of technical calculations-complicated cal­culations that become a whole lot easier when you have a powerful pocket calculator. 
Not surprisingly, there are quite a few such calculators around, but ours stand apart, and ahead. We started it all when we introduced the world's first scientific pocket calculator back in 1972, and we've shown the way ever since. 
The calculators you see here are our newest, the first of our second generation. Both offer you technology you probably won't find in compet­itive calculators for some time to come, if ever. 
Our HP-21 perfonns all 1rithmetic, log and trig calculations, including rectangular/polar conversions and common antilog evaluations. 
It's display is fully formatted, so you can choose between fixed decimal and scientiFic notation. 
Our HP-25 does all that-and much, much more. It's programmable, 'which means it can solve automatically the countless repetitive problems every science and engineering student faces. 
W.ith an HP-25, you enter the keystrokes necessary to solve the problem only once. Thereafter, you just enter the variables and press the Run/Stop key for an almost instant answer accurate to 10 digits. 
Before you invest in a lesser machine, by all means do two things: ask your instructors about the calculations their courses require; and see for yourself how effortlessly our calculators handle them. 
Both the HP-21 and HP-25 are almost certainly on display~at your bookstore. If not, call us, toll-free, at 800-538-7922 (in Calif. 800-662-9862) for the name of an HP dealer near you. "" 
HEWLETT~~ PACKARD 
Sales and service from 172 offices in 65 countries. Dept. 6588, 19310 Pruneridge Avenue, Cupertino, CA 95014 
61J/28 
•Suggested ret~il price, excluding applicable state and local taxes­Continental U.S., Alaska & Hawaii. 

-~--~ 
12 the observer Wednesday, SeFfember 3, 1975 
de Valera buried amidst other Irish heroes 
DUBLIN, Ireland (AP) ­Eamon de Valera was laid to rest Tuesday just a few graves away from Charles Stewart Parnell and the other great Irish heroes. 
The gray granite rows of Glasnevin Cemetery, where the ordinary people of Dublin climbed up Celtic crosses and perched on headstones for a look at the dignitaries around the chief's grave, took in almost the entire sweep of Ireland"s fight for freedom down the years. 
Now the man whom many regard as the father of modern Ireland joined that select com­pany, attended by a few tottering survivors of the 1916 uprising who stood at the graveside, their medals glittering in the late summer sunshine. 
An Irish-American mourner, Princess Grace of Monaco, an old friend of the De Valera family, stood out in the ring of official mourners that included u.s. Secretary of Labor John Dunlop and Sen. James L Buckley, Con-R, N.Y. 
Also at graveside, their rifles held upside down in tribute to the commandant at Boland's Bakery, the last to surrender in the Easter Monday rising, was an honor guard of army cadets from the smae unit De Valera sent to Washington for President John F. Kennedy's funeral. 
His coffin draped in the tricolor of the Irish republic that he helped bring about, De Valera on his last ride through Dublin was taken past the general post office, where the 
Rock Island train explodes near highway in Iowa 
DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) ­
Louise Stout and her husband 
were driving to a friend's home 
for a holiday visit when sudden­
ly "there were flames above us 
and all around us." 
A Rock Island Lines freight . 
train loaded with propane gas 
derailed as it passed beneath 
an interstate highway overpass 
and exploded into a huge fire­
ball. 
"We knew our only chance 
was to leave that car and try to 
outrun it," Mrs. Stout said 
from a hospital bed Tuesday. 
"We ran for the ditch and kept 
trying to get away, but they 
just kept exploding. I thought 
we were done with for sure." 
Mrs. Stout, 55, was one of two 
persons hospitalized with in-. 
juries. Four others were 
treated. 
Von Ray Abbott, 32, Des 
Moines, whose motorcycle was 
swept from the overpass by the 
force of the first explosion, was 
listed in critical condition Tues­
day with burns over the upper 
half of his body. 
Mrs. Stout said Abbott's mo­
torcycle was just ahead of their 
car when the train derailed and 
caught fire. 
"He didn't seem to know 
what had happened," she said. 
"He just kept saying, 'Oh, my 
God. Oh, my God.'" 
Fearing that more propane­
fueled blasts were possible, 
firemen on Tuesday continued 
to guard three smoldering pro­
pane cars wh~·· ~ five others ex­
ploded Monday afternoon. 
More than 100 fire fighters 
from Des Moines and surround­
ing communities fought the 
blaze. Des Moines Fire Chief 
Lee Williams said firemen "did 
not want to put out the fires." 
Williams said a "potential 
bomb" could have developed 
Hesburgh attends UNESCO meeting. 
, Father Theodore Hesburgh, 
university president, represented 
Notre Dame at the UNESCO 
Meeting this summer. The 
meeting held in Moscow ran from 
August 18 to Sept. first. 
UNESCO is an organization 
which represents the educational 
branch of the United Nations. 
Notre Dame has been a member of 
this organization since its con­
ception twenty-five years ago. 
Meetings are held every five 
years. Fr. Hesburgh was one of 
1400 delegates, who met to discuss 
what universities will be dealing 
with as they appro~ch the year 
2000. 
Prior to this conference, Fr. 
Hesburgh and Fr. David Burrell 
attended a meeting of the In­
ternational Federation of Catholic 
Universities. This con­
ference,occurring every three 
years, was held in New Delhi, 
India. 
over the Des Moines metropoli­tan area if the fire had been extinguished and propane gas clouds had formed. 
The explosions were felt more than 40 miles away from the site just northeast of the city limits. 
Factories, warehouses and homes were evacuated in a two-square-mile area around the derailment and the major east-west interstate highway 
was  closed  because  it  was  
feared  that  there  had  been  
structural bridge.·  damage  to  the  

It no longer 
silent crowds were 15 deep. Here in 1916 the republic was proclaimed by rebels who came out on bicycles and by street car to take on the British army. 
There were cries of "Up Dev" as the cortege led by the army band playing "Wrap the Green Flag Round Me" slowly marched along the banks of the Liffey. Hundreds, swelling to thousands, joined the procession in the teeming slums of north Dublin, where pubs were shut and every drab tenement flew the Irish flag. 
Prime minister of Ireland for 21 years and . president for 13, De Valera in his 92 years had also been a country s,chool master, a professor of mathematics, actor at the Abbey Theater, guerrilla chief, gun runner, jail breaker, member of both British and Irish ?arliaments, president of the League of Nations and the roremost exponent of the motto "England's difficulty is Ireland's opportunity." 
An immigrant who went the other way, De Valera was born in New York, which probably saved his life and propelled him to the forefront of Irish rebel politics when the other 15 leaders of the Easter Monday rebellison were shot by a british firing squad. 
No tombstone yet has been raised to De Valera but his monument already is atop Dublin castle, the tricolor of the Irish republic: green for Ireland, orange for Ulster, white for the principle of the unity of purpose that would some day reunite them, but alas not in his long lifetime. 

NEW STEREO SOUND SYSTEM. 
Mon. -Cocktail Nite -2 for 1/2 price 8 -11 pm 
Tues. -Pool Nite -prizes $1 0 -$5 Wed. -Pitcher Nite -$1.50 Thurs. -Pool Doubles Nite -Prizes 
Fri. & Sat. -Entertainment Nite 9:00 
RIVER BEND.'PLAZA 
-2:00 
109 Woodward Court Behind Wymans & RasmusseM 
has to decide who is going to college. 
Your future no longer has to be in the hands of the almighty dollar-your dollars that is. Be· cause an Air Force ROTC 4-year scholarship will pick up the bills. Tuition bills ... textbook and lab bills. Plus, it ""provides good job to go to. And a future for a hundred dollar a month without limits. Travel. Promo­allowance for you to spend as tions. Prestige. you see fit. There are 6500 Air Force 
And at graduation, that ROTC college scholarships in 
scholarship really starts paying total. Why not see if you'veoff. You receive a commission earned one during the last few as an Air Force officer. Plus a years. 
CONTACT ··· CAPT. M.L. STOCKDALE ASST PROF OF AEROSPACE STUDIES 
UNIV. of N.D. Ph 283 6634 
Put it all together in Air Force ROTC. 

Thxoughoutcountry Wednesday, Se~tember 3, 1975 the observer 13 
--~------~~~ 
Teachers' strikes delay schools' opening 
and Berkeley teachers said to opened schools for one mil­
creases. But school boards in sizes and whether 1,525 teach­
By The Associated Press 
they would go out if school lion pupils next week dspite a
some cases want to increase ing positions will go unfilled 
board procedes with proposed strike threat by the city's 60,000
class sizes, reduce teacher this year.
The opening of school Tues­
contract changes. teachers over a cost-of-living
preparation periods and make
day brought picket lines and 
Meanwhile, strikes continued In New York City, Schools increase and proposed budget
other changes to save money.
strike votes as teachers in com­
in two Southern Illinois school Chancellor Irving Anker vowed cuts.
Teachers say they are being
munities across the country districts -Urbana and Belvi­
asked to give up benefits won
balked at the budget slashing of dere. Teachers struck in Mar­in previous contracts.
financially-pressed school ion, Ind., and voted to strike in
Boston teachers voted to
boards. 
Matawan, N.J., and East
work without a contract for the
Boston teachers voted to Haven, Conn., when schools
first two weeks of school to
strike the city's public schools open Wednesday.
help assure that classes begin
on Sept. 22 if they do not have 
smoothly under a new court-or­
a new contract. Chicago teach­Los Angeles teachers said
dered integration program that
ers began taking a strike vote they would picket a superinten­
calls for the busing of 26,000 of
on the eve of the opening of dent's address Wednesday and
the city's 84,000 school children.
class. And deadline negotiations threatened to strike when
However, members of the
continued in New York, Los An­schools reopen Sept 10.
Boston Teachers Union voted
geles and San Francisco. Teachers walked out Tuesday The Los Angeles teachers are
overwhelmingly to strike Sept 22 if they do no have a new
in nine Pennsylvania school dis­asking a 7.5 per cent pay in­
contract by then with the Bos­
tricts. Strikes have been voted crease as part of a package
ton School Committee.
by teachers in 13 Rhode Island that would cost $40 million. The 
The teachers are seeking a 10
communities. And schools school board has countered 
per cent pay raise, while the
opened in Great Falls, Mont., with a $30 milion package that 
school committee has offered 6
with substitute teachers as the includes a cut in health benefits regular teachers manned picket for teachers.
per cent. Boston teachers now make $9,722 to $19,765 a year.
lines. 
In Chicago, Mayor Richard J. In San Francisco, teacherMany of the strikes and po­Daley offered Tuesday to me­representatives reported "abso­tential strikes center on the de­mand of teachers for wage 
diate the school dispute. Key is­lutely no break" after three hikes to offset cost-of-living in-
sues include salaries, class days of weekend· negotiations. 

Across San Francisco Bay, the Oakland Education Association has authorized a strike vote 
New Jersey city 
WELCOME BACK SPECIAL 
BUY ONE OF OUR DELCIOUS PIZZAS & GET SECOND AT 1f2 PRICE 
(JUST SAY YOU'RE FROM N.D.) 



MILANO'S 
412 N. HILL S.B. 
~············..······························: 
is running dry :·REMEMBER THE FOOD YOU USED : i TO GET AT FRANKY'S??? :
TRENTON, N.J. CAP) ­Schools, industries and business were ordered closed Tuesday as i THAT'S THE SAME FO~. D i New Jersey's capital city and 
: YOU GET HERE. :
surrounding communities began 
. :
running out of water. : (Dorothy, the cuisine artist y·' b J·!l :
The problem was caused by a broken pump at a plant that filters : years gourmet cooking at Fr ...y' s : the city's water supply. Trenton 
: Is now at Valerie's cooking tbt :
Mayor Arthur Holland declared a state of emergency and said the : same delicious food.) : water system probably would not • • 
be back in working order until i ITALlAN SPECIALTIES : ! Thursday. 
: SPAGHETTI :
Most of the areas 250,000 residents were without any water i MOSTACIOLLI 10% discount : .at all. There was still some service 
:• LASAGNA WI'th N. ..D I.D. •.
in low-lying areas including the State House, where janitors dry­• RAVIOLI : mopped Ihe corridors to conserve • •
: PASTA FAGIOLI <Italian bean soup) :
water. 
•
Holland ordered the closing of • •
: <Dinners Inc. Italian bread & salad) •
business and industries. He also ordered the city's public and • OPEN • parochial schools to delay their : S am to 9 pm BREAKFAST SERVED: openings. scheduled for Wed­: ANYTIME : nesday. 
: VALERIE'S RESTAURANT i In Philadelphia. about 30 miles :• 
801 S. MICHIGAN. SO. BEND : 
r. C~uth of here, an aide to Mayor r rank Rizzo said Rizzo called Gov. 
: (NEXT TO GilBERTS) 289 0681
Brendan T. Byrne and offered to provide as much water as possible. He said the city has 30 tank trucks 
withl,500 gallon capacities. 

ATTENTION
Byrne could not be reached for comment on the offer. 
RETURNING 

N.D. DEBATERS ••
WELCOME TO NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 
FROM THE CREW AT: 
IMPORTANT GENERAL MEETIN WEDNESDAY SEPT. 3 at 7:50 in Rm 1-C LaFortune


Uhe WinJjammer 
HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
Please be Prompt
1637 LWW SO. BEND 
..
INQUIRE ABOUT FREE TRANSPORTATION 
(RSVP at 3700 or 3163)
TO AND FROM CAMPUS PHONE 232-6622 

14_---=t-=-h:...;e~o::..cb=s-=e-=--rv-=--e=-=--r___-'-'W:...::ecl=n=•=sd=a""y.._,.:::,.Sep=te:;.:;m:.:..:be;;..::.:_r"""3,'--1'-'-t""'75 
Syracuse concert draws rocks 
broken eibow and broken toes 'cert, state police said. er objects, state police said. took them about 40 minutes to-SYRACUSE; N.Y. (AP) suffered by troopers. A spokes­About 75 helmeted troopers "There were some nasty kids disperse the crowd and seizeDozens of state troopers and woman for a medical team at manning the gates then rushed out there .. . We took their crap · the "prime agitators." About 60hundreds of gate-crashing the site said no civilians were the crowd, tossing tear-gas can­lfor about four hours before we persons were arrested.
young music fans battled in seriously injured. nisters and swinging night­used gas," said Capt. Kenneth Authorities said at least 20tear gas and rain Tuesday at The violence erupt~d when sticks. Crounse. "We took a lot of in­troopers and 10 youths werethe entrance to a rock concert. 
100 youths in a crowd estimated Many in the crowd -kept juries before we went after treated at an infirmary on theAt least 30 persons were in­at 2,000 being held outside the outside the concert gates at the them." grounds. Most of the injuriesjured. 
Great American Music Fair State Fairgrounds because they The initial clash, in a rain­were cuts and bruises, theyState police said the most tried to uproot a fence and would not buy tickets -were storm, lasted only a few min­said. Most of the troopers were 
serious injuries reported were a •force their way into the con-throwing rocks, bottles and oth-utes, but 


t 
l 
I• 
... 
The honest sound is the original sound. 

@ PIONEER'3 CT-31 31 A Stereo Cassette Tape Deck 
Prove it yourself. Record your favorite disc on the CT-3131 A. Then compare record and cassette sound reproduction. You'll never distinguish between the two. Here's every feature you want for distortion-free recording/playback on tape: automatic end of tape shutoff; dual tape bias selector; long life Permalloy tape head; pause control; noise cut filter; individual record/ playback sliding level controls; tape running indicator; 3-digit tape counter; twin lighted recording level. meters; simplified piano-key type controls; skip button; memory recording level marker; walnut cabinet. large-7. 
511995 
WAS 5179.95 ----NOW 

®PIONEER~ 
R300 10" 2-WAY 2-SPEAKER SYSTEM 
Remember the model number R300 -because you'll never for­get its absolutely ;up.,rior sound reproduction. There's full, rich bass from a 1 0-inch long coil woofer surrounded by distortion­reducing polyurethane foam. Add to this a newly designed Horn tweeter and you have crystal clear highs. All drivers are flushed mounted up front for wid­er dispersion. Distortion is at an absolute minimum. Handsome 2-section removable grille with acoustically padded walnut cabi­net. 8 ohms. 
WAS 5119.95---------NOW 

QUANTITIES OF SOME SPECIALS ARE LIMITED 
ALL AUDIO DEALERS WHO ARE BOLD ENOUGH TO OPENLY COMPETE WITH OUR FAMOUS DISCOUNT PRICES ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO CHALLENGE US IN A "PRICE WAR." PLEASE ACKNOWLEDGE BY OFFERING AND ADVERTISING THE LOWEST PRICES THIS CITY HAS EVER SEEN. 

AbsolutelY the finest in its class. 

(.V,) PIONEER. SX-939 AM/FM Stereo Receiver 
The latest advances in circuitry and convenience features make this receiver ·the obvious choice for a no-compromise stereo system. Driving 8 ohm loads, it delivers 70 watts minimum continuous power per channel over the 20Hz to 20,000Hz frequency range, with total harmonic distortion of 0. 3% at the most. Superb sensitivity and over 80db (IHF) selectivity achieved through use of advanced MOS FET's, ceramic filters, and Phase-lock-loop circuit. Wide range of inputs, including two microphone jacks. Unique twin stepped tone control system offers 3,000 different frequency balances. Monitor switches for two tape decks plus deck-to-deck transfer while listening to second program source. Connections far 3 speakers, noise reduction unit, 4-channel broadcasting, external equalizer, or third tape deck. Panel light dimmer switch plus many more 
convenience features. 
544995 
WAS 5599.95 ----NOW 

TheAudio Speeialists 
415 N. MICHIGAN AVE. 234-5001 CLOSED SUNDAY 
state police said it . hurt by thrown obiects. 

'' 
The last word in taoe decks is also the first in varsatiliiY. 
@PIONEER~ RT-1020L Stereo Tape Deck with 4-channel Playback 
Here's virtually every feature you've ever wanted in o tape deck. Plus the facility to playback discrete 4 channel lopes with its four playback amplifiers. Starting with three motors, three contourless heads and 1 0 1h-inch reels, the RT-1020l has everything to recommend it for profession­al performance and operation at home. Features include: direction action push-button controls ... click-free switch­ing . . . MIC/line mixing . . . sound-on-sound, mono mixing ... pre-set program timer ... pause control for editing .. , 4-digit tape counter . . . 3-slep tape bias selector ... 2-slep equalizer ... 2 speeds ... dual level VU meters ... headphone jack, plus much more. Of 
course, sound reproduction is superb. It's a Pioneer. 

WAS 5649.95 ----NOW $53995 
The perfect hl-11 starter unit 
Another great value from Pioneer, the SA-5200 uses the latest and most advanced circuitry, including direct-coupling,' for outstanding performance. It can deliver a minimum continuous power output of 10 watts per channel at 8 ohms, all the way from 20Hz to 20,000Hz, while total harmonic distortion does nat exceed 0.8%. There's complete flexibility with connections for o phono and two auxiliaries. loundness contour and a headphone jack add to its versatility. · 
WAS $139.95 ___ .NOW $1 0995 
SA-5200 Integrated Stereo Amplifier 


15
the observer
Wednesday, September 3, 1975 
Krishna mission fails in Japan 
TOKYO (APl -Authorities here are quietly cracking down on a group of young foreigners bent on bringing an Asian reli­gion to some reluctant Asians, the Japanese. 
After five years in Japan, the -saffron-robed members of the Hare Krishna movement admit lht> Japanese are a hard lot to win over, having converted only five persons among the country's 110 million people. 
In their frustration, some Krishna devot.ees may have acted rashly, said John Wil­liams, 25, of San Francisco, who also is known by his reli­gious nam€' of Karnamritas 
Das. 
"But our intentions are good," he added. 
In the past month, five Amer­ican d€'votees have been ar­r€'sted -on€' youth twice -on 
rm charges ranging from assault 
to mt1midation. The incidents have received wide press cov­erage in Japan and the Nation­al Police Agency says it's run out of patience. 
One incident involved a 70­
year-old woman who was 
struck in the face by a Krishna 
missionary she criticized for 
forcefully selling religious liter­
ature to passersby -a major 
complaint against the group, 
police said. 
Williams, who currently runs the Krishna mission in Tokyo, said the charges are "fra­
m<"ups"' or stem from misun­derstandings. None of the American devotees speaks Japanese. 
A National Police Agency spokesman said authorities re­ceived numerous complaints about how the Krishna mission operates and decided to take action. 
The spokesman said the crackdown is being carried out quietly -no deportations, just the denial of extensions or re­newals of visas for the Hare Krishna missionaries. Most are on tourist visas and technically shouldn't be engaged in mis­sionary activities, he added. 
Authorities have identified 17 American Krishna members, ranging in age from 19 to 30, and all will have to leave the country once their present visas expire, he said. . 
Those arrested recently, who arrived in Japan on tourist visas, were allowed to return home to the United States with the charges against them dropped, the spokesman said. 
Williams and a half-dozen other American and Canadian devotees live in a spacious, but rundown house in an affluent central Tokyo neighborhood. 
Dne devotee said the mission is supported from funds raised 
$38.4 million boost 
Phone rate hike nears approval 
INDIANAPOLIS (APl -The 
· Public Servic€' Commissions ap­p<"ars n<"ar approval of an or­d€'r Ihat would boost Indiana B<•ll Telephone Co. rates and charges $38.4 million, the In­dianapolis N€'ws said Tuesday. The newspaper reported that William Powers, a member of th€' PSC, said he exp€'Cts the commission to approve an or­d€'r he drafted. The company had request€'d increases total­ing $44.5. Powers said lh<' order would: -incrN se basic montly resi­d€'nlial bills by 5 per cent to 6 per c€'nt. -hikf' basic monthly charges for bus1ness Ielephone service by about 10 per cent. -cteny a request to double lh€' lO-cent cost of coin-operated lf'lephones -deny a request to begin charging for directory assist­ance after the first three free inquiries each month. -generally approve a request to revise and increase in­trastate toll charges. --refuse a request· to list charitable contributions as op­<'rating expenses. · 
-and reduce a request for in­creases in "economy" or meas­ured residential service. 
-generally approve a request for several miscellaneous other increases including charges for special telephones, unlisted and unpublished numbers, in­stallation and movin charges and WATS lines.. said, is about 85 per cent of the 
Powers said the proposed or­amount Bell requested. der would be reviewed by the In 1970, Indiana Bell was commission Wednesday. He granted annual increases in said it provides that about 25 rates or charges totaling about per c€'nt of the new company $12 million. It got increases of revenues come from basic tele­$23.95 million in 1971, $13.2 mil­phone rates. lion in 1972, $25.5 million in 1973 
Th€' $38.4 million, Powers and nearly $2.4 million in 1974. 
PUblic service jobs help to lower unemployment 
WASHINGTON IAPl -Pub­
lic service jobs emerged as the 
most <"ffective way to attack 
unemploym€'nt in a study ·of 
government job-stimulation 
programs released by the Con­
gr€'ssional Budget Office Tues­
day. 
Alice Rivlin, office director, 
explained that the study was 
not designed to show which of 
five potential programs was 
best. 
Each of the five has aspects 
which might appeal to various 
members of Congress, she 
pointed out. 
However, public service jobs came out ahead in most of the criteria cited by senators and House members seeking ways to cut the high unemployment ,rate of recent months. The July 
rate was 8.4 per cent, but it 
had reached 9.2 per cent in the 
recession. 
Th€' ot~er four programs con­
sidered in the study were accel­erated public works, antireces­sion grants to states and cities, general tax cuts and increased governm<"nt purchases. 
The study indicated that a $1­
, billion public service jobs pro­gram initially would produce up to 125,000 jobs and cut the unemployment rate as much as 0.11 per cent, could be started quickly and terminated easily, 
Chess tourney set for Saturday 
A speed chess tournament will be held on Saturday, September 6th at the south end of River Bend plaza on Michigan Street in South ~ 
Bend. There is no entry fee, and ' trophies for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd place I are offered. Those interested j 
should bring a chess set and chess clock if they have them. For furthPr information, call 234-9648. 
•
Don't get caught 1n the 
crowd··Send an Observer home.today! 
Send toP. 0. Box Q Notre Dame, Ind. 4_6556 ~A r ~.~;['!·

,.................................................... !Name
.. 
----------------~--~­
:Address---~~--~ 
•
iNew suscrlpti;.Qdid·Subscriptlo,.O 
. ­-
: Please print an~· Include zip code 
• 1 semester $10 Q,'1 year $18 O 
1 
in the United States through the sale of incense and soap, but other memhers of the mission were reluctant to discuss its fi­nances. Japanese authorities claim the pamphlet sales pay for living expenses. 
Only five Japanese have joined as full-fledged devotees, although as many as 20 show up for the mission's Sunday feasts, Williams said. 
CLASSIFIED RDS 
PERSONALS 
B.B. , P.R.I 
Arrivederci. File under R. 
1 promised you a personal, so... 
T.C. 
here It \lSI (Tee-Heel l M. 
ATTENTION ALL STUDENT 
Cheryl Fassler & Laurie McNulty-­GOVERNMENT AND STUDENT 
Your friends In Farley say Happy UNION CABINET MEMBERS: 
Birthday & Welcome. 
Contact Ed or Tom ASAP. 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING FOR SMC COFFEE HOUSE THURSDAY 7.:30 pm AT SMC COFFEE SHOP 
FOR INFO CALL KATHY 4721 
************************************ 
i ~ Seniors I I : ~ 
! Last chance i ~ for senior pictures ~ 
• 
i Call Dome Office (7085) £ 
~ ~ 
t TODAY • FRIDAY : 
t 7 · 9 P.M. : 
~ 
.
t ~ Or sign up in Dining Halls during dinner! ~ 
: Thursday, Sept. 4 South Dining Hall
-l 
t Friday, Sept. 5 -North Dining Hall • 
.................................... 

OUR 
TEAM CAN'T BE BEAT! 
FUEL OIL 
SPECIALISTS 
We always provide free delivery service to our customers. You con hove an automatic delivery system where your 
monthly bill con be leveled out to the same amount year 
around! The only requirement is a 200 gallon minimum delivery for coll-in customers. If you wont to be on a winning team and toke advantage of true specialists call today for our student special! 
CALL 259-9978 


---FRASCH--­

c MPANY 
... 
.. 
• 
·16 the observer Wednesday, September 3, 1975 

Irish rush toward_ coming season 


by Ernie Torriero 
There are some people on campus who are glad to see classes begin. These are the hundred or so Notre Dame football players who for almost two\ weeks have been totally engulfed in preparation for a September 15 showdown with the Boston College Eagles. For these select few their time has been occupied · with two-a-day practices, various film and tutoring sessions and other rituals designed for the mental digestion of Dan Devine's football philosophy. 
ISunday, Devine took the \team to the astroturf of Cartier Field for an extensive scrimmage. Rick Slager went most of the way at the helm ofl the number one of­fense,but had some trouble moving it consistent!y. ilt was the running of freshman fullback Jim Browner [hat made the ·Irish 0 shine. 
Early in the day, Browner broke over the left side, shed two
0 
would be tacklers and galloped undaunted into the end zone 67 yards away. For an encore the younger Browner further em­barrassed the second team defense by breaking a 60 yard run for a touchdown late in the scrimmage. For the day, the freshman from Warren, Ohio, totaled an im­pressive 153 yards on nine carries. Steve Orsini, a sophomore half­back and Hering Award winner in the spring, was also a bright spot as he rushed for 69 yards in 20 carries. 
Joe Montana 'directed tht second team offense. MontanB looked sharp ~s he passed for Ill yards while hitting on nine of 1' pass attempts. The sophomore quarterback showed ex~ellent blocking ability as he cut down Randy Harrison springing Steve Schmidtz free for 34 yards. Sch­midtz made four good grabs in his challenge for a back-up wide receiver slot. Gary Forystek was at the helm of both the number one and number two offense. 
The coaches did a lot of different things on defense. Ross Browner and Willie Fry were all over the football field harassing the op­position. Bradley and HaiTison played· well in the secondary. 
After the day's action, -Coach Devine was reluctant to emphasize the need for any changes. "We must look at the films before we can make any concrete changes." He further explained the un­derlying reason for the fall scrimmages.l"ln this type of 
SOPHOMORE QUARTERBACK Joe Montana was 9 of 17 for 85 yards in Sunday's scrimmage.
scrimmage," Devine pointed out, "we do several things that do not T• k 
normally happen in a game. We try to create a situation instead of using the play selection that we would in a game," 
The Irish have 11 practice days left before the opening game. The past few days, the team has been doing extra running before and after practice. Devine calls this "running for consistency." Today the Irish will take the field for the third pre-season scrimmage at 
4:00 p.m.in the stadium. 

The Irish Eye 
.=================================:=:::::::::::::;::::::;:::::;:::;===================::!::::::The 
wrong rule 
Give credit to the NCAA officials for delivering the cruelest. blow of all. 
At the recent convention in Chicago last month the NCAA came up with several new regulati_ons in an effort to combat the skyrocketing budgets of college athletic }departments. Spending on athletics was getting out of hand in many of the country s major colleges, almost to the point of running some of the smaller schools, unable to compete financially, out of the business. 
The regulation which has the most effect and has all the coaches up in arms, is the limitation of the football team's travelling squad to 48 players and home squad to 60. Looked at logically, the rule makes no sense, and it is detrimental to one of the most positive aspects of college football. 
Limited to a 48 man squad on the road, teams now can carry a squad . only two deep at every position plus several specialists. The rest of the 40 or 50 members of the team must remain behind. For the kid who sees little or no action, and whose sole moments of pride come when he stands suited up on the sidelines, it is all over now. 
The rule is bad for team morale and individual attitude. Players come to a college expecting at least the thrill of wearing his school's colors and being there on the field during the game, even if it is on the sidelines. Now they've been robbed of some of the spirit and enthusiams, and that's what makes college football. 
''I~n'tthinklli~it~goodbthe~a~~.··~~W~h~d~a~Dan
Devine, and that's putting it mildly. 
"It just isn't fair for the kids," agrees defensive line coach Joe Yonto. "Some kids know they'll never start on offense or defense and so they work their tails off to make the specialty teams. Because of the limit, we have to cut down on the kickoff teams, and those kids can no longer play." 
Or if the Irish are playing, for example, in Boston, they might take along some players from that area. Now they no longer can. 
The saddest part about it is that it's faulty economics. Schools must charter a whole airplane anyway, so there's no savings on air fare. All it does is cut down on 1 or 2 nights lodging and food for 12 players (the previous limit being 60). This amounts to a grand savings of about $3500­$4000 a year, mere peanuts to a school's athletic budget. 
Another thing that has coaches pulling their hair is that it just doesn't make good football sense. Even if you only have one replacement! for eact. position, that's 44 players. That gives you 4 more positions in which to ' squeeze in an extra quarterback and some kickers. It means playing someone that you really don't want to play sometimes, or someone that doesn't have experience at the position you need him at. 
"You can only go 2 deep," says Devine. "We might only have three people that can play offensive tackle, or we might have to play a player who's tired. It gives a distinct advantage to the home t~m to have 60 players out there." 
"It's inequality," adds Yonto. "That's an extra 12 guys. It means we have to train people on the second team to play several positions." 
.. 
The rule is unfortunate. They should have made regulations to punish the coaches and athleticdepartments\that cheat and lie to gain the best possible team. Instead they made a rule that punishes the players. The pther new rules that the NCAA came up with help a little. Football scholarships have been limited to 95 total for one year, effective in 1978. They've tried to curb the vicious recruiting wars by limiting the number of times a prospective player visit the campus, and setting a date before which a school cannot contact a candidate . 
• 
These regulations have little effect on the Notre Dame athletic budget. Fr. Joyce and at athletic director Edward "Moose" Krause have always run a strict budget and for y~~ ND has been operating the program at the level which the recent regulations require. In short, they're used to it and if anyone is hurt it will be the large state schools with huge budgets and excessive spending. And that's probably good. 
l c e t distribution beginstoday 
Student football ticket distribution for the 1975 season begins today at the ticket sales window on the second floor of the ACC. The schedule for exchange of the blue athletic certification is as follows: 
SENIORS: <SEVENTH AND EIGHTH SEMESTER STUDENTS ONLY): Wednesday, Sept. 3, 8:30 
a.m. to 2 p.m. 
JUNIORS, GRADUATE, LAW AND ALL STUDENTS IN NINTH SEMESTER OR HIGHER: Thursday, Sept. 4, 8: 30 a.m. to 3: 30 
p.m. 
SOPHOMORES: Friday, Sept. 5, 8 
a.m. to 1 p.m. 
FRESHMEN: Friday, Sept. 5, 
1:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. 
No student may present more than foru certifications for ad­jacent seating, and no individual student tickets will be issued after Sept. 5. 
The fee for a graduate or law student's season iicket is $15.00. Procurement of the ticket is op­tiona!. 
Married students who wish to apply for tickets should not procure their ticket by class but instead should present their athletic certification and evidence of their married status at the ticket ACC ticket office between 9 a.m.
Wednesday, Sept. 3 or Thursday and 4 p.m. Tuesday, Sept. 9 in"'Sept. 4. 
exchange for the ticket. These plus $15.00 for the spouses 
Couples wishing seats adjacentticket are required for a receipt, must turn in certifications
which should be presented at thP. together. _,;_,.~ au1u11 'I 
Student Union presents I
I 
i I,.,
"The Sting" i ?~ 
s;
I'· 
with ~ 
i Paul Newman ~ 
i 
Robert Redford 
i 
I
i
Thursday and Friday Sept. 4th and 5th i 7:00 pm, 9:30pm, 12:00 am 
Engineering Auditorium 

oo~ff~k~e~b~e~~:ee~n~9~a~·!m~-~a~n~d~4~P~-!m~.~o~n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
F 
SO YOU'RE BACK! WHO CARES? MAC'S RECORD RACK CARES! WATCH FOR Wt:EKLY SPECIALS 
A FULL SERVICE RECORD STORE 
?88-1178 
0 
• .p • •:~ ....<.T TO RIVER PAKK THEATER 









