I 
The summer seems to be a good time to rebuild and renovate, from the looks of the La Fortune student center and the Football stadium. 
At the stadium, renovation ot me press box Is currently underway. The radio broadcasting booth is 
"-:-.. 
being rebuilt, and ten new rooms are being erected above the press box. The football ·field has been re­sodded, and the appearance of the main concourse has been im­proved. Story on page twelve. 
LaFortune renovation is soon to be completed. Recently, the ballroom floor has been resur­faced. The main lobby has been in use for some time n01111, and ac­cording to Father David Schlaver, Director of Student Activities, "If the reaction of the summer students is any indication, the Center will be well received by students in the fall." Story on page 
two. 

The letters and calls have been pouring in all summer. Where is Father Griffin? Why hasn't he written? What's going on? We decided to call Fr. Griffin, University Chaplain and regular Observer columnist, in New York City where he is staying for the summer, and find out just what was going on. 
During a forty-minute Interview, faithfully transcribed on pag~ five, Father Griffin told us of his trip to Europe with the Glee Club, (in­cluding a search through Ireland for leprechauns), living just enough for the City in New York, and contributed thoughts on the changing priesthood. 

Thursday, July 24, 1975

2 the observer 
The Observer Is publiShed MoriCiay· through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the 
students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. 
Subscriptions may be purchased 
for 8 dollars per semester (16 
dollard per year) from The Ob­
server. Box Q Notre Dame Indiana 
46556. Second Class postage paid, 
Notre Dame, IN ~56 
RIDERS WANTED:
MOTORCYCLE 
Sl B1 to Kansas City
OWNERS 
round trip or· one
CH£CI TH£S£ IAT£5! 
;way. Departing Thur 
'76 'Per Y~ar 
.July 31. Returning
126-200cc 
Fuft Cove-rogt: 
Pe< Yeor · 
'Sh d ..
. 1Aug. 3. are nvmg.
201-3&0cc 18·;,5 full Cov.><age , Per Year 
and expenses. Call
361-SOOcc 111 
full Coveri>ge 
Mike Jordan after 4.
, .1:: p.;; Full
501-750cc 1
W Year Coverage 
232-6370 
'115 Per full
751-lOOOcc Y&Or Coverage 
ND-SMC THEATRE 
Pv• Fun 
FOR YOUNG PEOPLE
0VIr 1000cc M'Ht ·..u~ Year C"""roge Tales From 
Abo..-e rote' are bcned on new btkes, 
Mother Goose 
Jer.ser 1 rates for btkes over 18 mo. old. 
July 12, 16, 19,23, 26 Complete protection by 
Weds. & Sats. at 2:00 P.M. ALL SEATS .75
PETE CLARK 
LITTLE THEATRE

INSURANCE AGENCY 
Sl. Mary's College 

11M lilhwlkalwe. ~, r-.Itt. Pk. 289-7213, 
Phone: 284-4176 

Dance this weekend to  
PATCHWORK  
=III  Michiana's top Rock Night Club! i4111iiiiY'I  
~  
122 WEST FIRST STIEn • MISHAWAKA  
- 

FOR A SPECIAL OCCASION 
( OR FOR NO REASON AT ALL ) 
SAY IT WITH FLOWERS or GIFTS from WYGANT FLORAL co. INC. 
317 LWW SOUTH BEND 232-3354 
IANiCTCREAMsPECTAr,
!BUY ONE HOT FUDGE SUNDAy I 
~ AND GET ONE FREE I 
~ AT <with this coupon) ~ 
I FARRELL'S ICE CREAM PARLOR ! 
t.::~::~..~~..!'!.~..~!~!!~~J 
NNOW APPEARING I 
KOPPERFIELD
D u 

ifHE WHITE HOUSE 
WITH DAILY SPECIALS ­MON•. & WED. "DRINK & DROWN" 
TUESDAY  ''.fEQUILA NIGHT"  
THURSDAY  "PITCHER BEER NIGHT'  
SUNDAY  "LADIES NIGHT"  

2839 N. 5th St. 
NILES 



Insights••••••• 

According to Vatican Radio bas come a long way since an item In the Wall Street Journal, baseball Pope Pius XI first spoke over its airwaves. players live longer than the rest of us. Twelve months ago, Italians tuni!!g in to Statisticians for the Metropolitan Life In­hear the Latin Mass, "Christian Horizons," surance Co., after studying the lives of more or "The Moment of the Spirit" were sur­than 10,000 major leagues, report their prised to hear the call-sign followed by fine­death rate at all ages averaged just 72 per quality jazz in stereo. cent of that of the general white male The new program of jazz at noon and population. Actuaries attribute the evening concentrates on music, .a minimum longevity to "superior physical condition" of religious content. The experimental and "close supervision" by team doctors. program is the idea of Father John Saint The death rate declined as the game aged. George, a Jesuit from the United States. Hall of Famers had a slightly higher death Father Saint George says the program is rate than other players, but, says the in­sort of an effort to gain the lost sheep back surance firm, the manager's mortality rate into the flock. Most people associate was much higher -perhaps attributable to Vatican radio with religious programming, the "severe pressure to win." and some had stopped listening for that 
reason. According to accounts, this venture 
is one of the Vatican Radio's few success 
* stories in recent times. 
The Great Pyramid of Cheops was a tomb * for Egypt's royalty, right? Wrong, says Edward . Kunkel of Warren, Ohio. Kunkel A nightclub in Terre Haute, Indiana now says few mummies were ever found in the features male go-go dancers. The owner of pyramid and rejects the idea that thousands the club says his place differs from most go­of slaves hauled 2o-ton rocks up ramps to go lounges because only women are allowed build them. in during the performance. "For the girls, 
The Great Pyramid was, he says, a big it's a party," he said. "They would become pump that held 600 tons of water and worked inhibited if men were allowed in here." Men by a hydraulic system. Kunkel's theory -are allowed in after 10:30 pm. that the Egyptians floated huge blocks The women say they attend out of through locks and positioned them -is based curiosity more than anything else. They are on drawings found in the pyramid. Kunke~ encouraged to dance with the go-go boys !!!!!! who has had little formal education, is not tip them by slipping a dollar into their deterred by his critics. "·]s it any wonder briefs. In return, they recieve a kiss and a that school kids grow up believing these coupon. A dr.awing is held later, and the girl ancient builders to be civilization's No. 1 holding the winning coupon is given a bottle numbskulls?" he asks. "This slave -ramp­of champagne to share with the go-go roller business is for the birds, a lot of dancer of her choice. malarky." 
*** 
I 
' 
I
I 
~ 

English course offered to International Students 
By Katy Bernard Notre Dame's program is exceptional in 

Staff Reporter that it only concentrates on the academic aspect of the language.

It used to be that, when foreign students were accepted at Notre Dame, they would "We do not involve ourselves with the have high abilities in such areas as math social and cultural aspects," Kline points ­and science, but their knowledge (or lack out. "I know, in other programs such as at thereof) of the English language hindered Michigan State, they do. They'll take the 
them from performing up to par. For the students to the grocery store and on shop­past six summers, however, Notre Dame ping trips. We find our students do not need has instituted some preventive medicine in this so much, as they usually are from such a program called "English as a Foreign a background that they are already Language," a six week, highly intensive aquainted with social amenities."Kline 
course in English 101. added that he has one student "who after 
Professor Edward Kline, Director of spending a whole semester at Michigan Graduate Studies in English, teaches the State, says he learned more here in six class. He sees the program as having five weeks. aims: pronunciation of English, idiomatic expression, vocabulary enrichment, 
To accomplish so much so fast, thereading comprehension and sentence students all work extremely hard. 
grammar. 

"I have never had American students who"What we do in six weeks is amazing," worked nearly as hard. You can see theclaims Kline. "Of course they do not reach change everyday, not just when you give afluency level, but there is astounding im­
test."
provement." The program does not exclude those not 

Foreign students on the whole have been entering Notre Dame in the fall. Kline says very successful at Notre Dame afterthe course is geared to those persons who completing the course. Because the coursehave performed badly on the Test of tries to anticipate only the academic needsEnglish as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). 
of each student, it prevents a six weekThis summer, all but one of the nine program from turning into a haphazardstudents, is at a graduate level and, again, English course, learning everything fromall but one, are Spanish speaking, although, how to o_rder a hamburger with no catchupKline says he susally has about eight or nine to studymg the works of William Faulkner.
different nationalities. 

*lJ~dQ~,~~rver 
Fm~nded November 3, 1966 ' 
Fred Graver ,Editor-in-Chief Andy Praschak Associate Editor Ed Pawlowski Advertising Manager 
Judy Smith I USB Editor Bob Tracy Ad Layout Candy Frankovelgia Production Manager 
Sue Zwick Production Manager Chris Smith Photo Editor 
Kate Bernard Production 
News: 283-1715 Editorials: 283-8661 ausiness: 283-7471 
T_hur_sday, July 24, 1975 . ~-· -· -·----­
•  _....,._.-·._.  ~ ... '*­ ... ••  ··= cwz '  u  cu  accu a<  -= ... ·==  ws sa  uw  a  a  -­ a  ••  
Thursday,  July 24, 1975  the observer  3  

w-

Arms and the Man: a fine performance 
review by maria o'meara 
In these days of banal television com· mercials and blaring AM lyrics, it is ex­citing to see theatre such as Arms and the Man. The acting develops into a quick, humorous pace and brings Shaw's witty, fast-moving dialogue to life. Mirroring each othet:'s actions, the cast performs tightly to produce a well balanced, clean production which progresses with perfect timing. 
Bell NcGlinn, as Captain Bluntschli, fashioned his shrewd, yet romantic role as the chocolate cream soldier as his floppy humour beat the rhythm of the play. As a fugitive in Raina's bedroom, Bluntshli ac­cepts her hospitality and her chocolates. When Raina leaves to tell her mother of the strange visitor, McGlinn falls asleep in a most convincing, groggy way, always upholding the light, humorous strain of the work. His witty exchanges wiht Raina, from Anger to Apology and back again, were executed with grace and in­tuition, as was all of McGlinn's per­formance .. 
Speaking of grace, Nancy Syburg (as 
Raina) moved with poise and spohistication throughout the entire play. Her gliding hand motions and coquettish turns of her head accentuates the ambivialence of her role: bravery and femininity. As the result of war and personal conflicts, Raina must , shirk her flighty mannerisms to establish her individuality and strength. Miss Syburg performs artistically and creates a character who elicits both our 
laughter and our sympathy Major Sergius Saranoff, played by Dan Dailey, is a melodramatic two-timer. His rationalization of cheating with Louka is well done, and his bumbling honor!> suit him well. But in the first act, his scene with Miss Syburg expressing their pure love for each other was over done and broke the rhythm 

of the play. However this is more a problem with direction and detracts little from Daily's overall fine performance. Funny as it was, it was one of the few interruptions in the intricate balance of the play and .should have been done more subtly. Anothe..! high point was his rendering of. the lines: "I never apologize," which developed the repetitious comedy so .vital to the play. 
Katherine Burke's bulging eyes and throaty anger enriched her already powerful performance as Raina's domineering mother, Catherine Petkoff. She also managed to brinf out sympathetic qualities which saved her from being a flat, unlikable character. Her acting, in par­ticular, reflected the acting of her husband ahd her daughter. While Major Petkoff relatp~; the story of the chocolate cream soldier to Sergius, Miss Burke and Miss 
Syburg enact a hysterical series of pained glances and ogles and is a tribute to the amazing performances of both actresses. Catherine's arguments with her husband also reflect a great ·sensitivity to her role. Soon after, Paul Petkoff smashes a riding corp on the table to emphasize a point. Miss Burke does the same thing, introducing a sense of family unity to the act. 
Paul Petkoff, played by Dan Deizel, is the only man in Bulgaria to own a library. Mr. Deizel plays an arthritic, crotchety soldier and his blindness about life is reflected in the character of Sergius, who is even more naive than Petkoff, especially when it comes to war. 

The two servants, Louka and Nicola palyed by Janey Wilson and Terrene~ Kennedy, provide a direct contrast to the upper class characters in the play. Through the eyes of these servants, one of the main themes of the play is developed: the question of the nature of man's soul. Louka repeatedly tells nicola that he has the hea. of a servant, and through this repitition, and Kennedy's interpretation of the servant's rold, the hearts of the other characters also begin to ~om 1 through. Captain Bluntschli has the soul of a shopkeeper, Major Petkoff has the heart of a soldier. 
The nature of the women is not so directly explained, however, and the character of Louka refuses to he defined. She will not succumb to. the l·humiliating tasks of serva!Jls, such as lying and making
demand1ng love Kennedy played a good liar and a shrewd businessman, however his strange accent was very disturbing and should have been dropped. Jante Wilson, beautiful as she is, did not seem earthy enough to play the seductive Louka. The characterizations and rhythmic rtransitions in the play were delightful to watch. Technically, the play was well done. The mellow lighting in the first act set the mood of suspense, while the well-lit second act reflected the tone of that scene, comic and open. The sets were also well done, yet it is strange that the round, gold couch that worked so well in the third act could have looked so blobby and ungraceful in the first. I highly recommend this play for the fine performances, especially by the women, who were entertaining and professional. It sure beats watching Cher or listening to WLS. 

Dylan and the Band • • Spaces and Shadows 
review by fred graver 
It's amazing how Dylan keeps coming up .vith material that just stands head and shoulders above his contemporaries. What's really amazing about th1s album is that, althouth the material is close to eight 
•years old, it is as fresh and exciting as anything that has been released this sum­mer. As a musical and poetic statement by Dylan and the Band, it is as vibrant and alive as anything they have done together since. 
The music on this album was recorded in the basement of the Band's house in West Saugerties, New York, the legendary "Big Pink." It was done in 1967, during Pvlan's period of reclusionbetweenHJonde on Blonde and John Wesley Harding, during the period when the Band was preparing to go out on their own after a long association as Dylan's back-up group. Like the later Planet Waves album, the last Dylan-Band tour and the ensuing albun, the Basement Tapes are a joint venture for Dylan and the Band. 
In recent Rolling Stone interview with Neil Young, he talks about releasing his latest album Tonight's the Night. That album is filled with songs that were recorded while Young and his band, Crazy Horse, were drunk and high. Young defends the album by saying "I think that it's something that people should hear. They should hear what the artist sounds like under all circumstances if they want to get a complete portrait." 
So it is with this album. Dylan and the Bank are completely loose, completely at ease with the surroundings, with the people, with the music. Much of ~e material is very low-key, compared to much of the work that they have released on other albums. The songs range from plaintive love ballads to the ribald and the autobiographical. At times, the musicianship is loose to the point of sloppiness (though it would take a stretch of the imagination to ever conceive of the Band being sloppy musicians.) 
The important thing about this album, though, is that it is telling music. It tells, not only of the friendshiP, comraderie and mutually inspiring relationshop of Dylan and the Band, but of the kaleidoscope of influences and imagery, both musically and poetically, that has infused itself into their music. 
The cover of the album is a Fellini-esque picture of Dylan and the Band, sitting in the basement of what appears to be an office building of sorts (Jots of heating pipes and generators) surrounded by an incredible array of characters. Strong man, fat lady, ballerina, dwarf newspaper vendor, fire eater, eskimo, nun, emmet kelly-like clown, and a dog that looks remarkably like the old RCA Victor pooch. Over to the right side are Dylan and the Band. Levon Helm is dressed like a bridegroom, Richard Manuel is dressed in what appears to be an Admiral's dress uniform, Robbie Robertson is clad in a Chairman Mao outfit, clutching an old guitar, Garth Hudson has his great porkpie hat on, holding an old tuba, Rick Danko sits like an organ grinder, grasping an ac­cordian. In front of the whole group sits Dylan, in a coat of many colors, holding a mandolin like a violin, playing without a bow. 
It's the carnival that the Band sang of. It's the million dollar bash that Dylan sings about on this album. It's letting everything going and just playing to hear the music that comes out of it. 
The production on these tapes is remarkably good, considering the cir­cumstances. And, considering the significance of this album, the production­empty, sparse and without a frill -adds to the quality. The more I listen to this album, the more comes out of it and I know I'll be listening for a long time (too bad, I'm hardly finished listening to Blood on the Tracks). 
This atmosphere of discovery and rediscovery, not only of the tracks on this album, but of the tracks that these people have been on, keeps leading me to a mystic assumption about this alubm. 
The magic here, the mystic clement, is that in taping this music, Dylan and the Band had absolutely nothing to live up to, and came up with everything. I keep thinking about Allen Ginsberg's advice to people, to empty themselves of everything, to give it all up fand away, before they try to put anything together. I keep thinking of the zen contemplation of pure space, a space which contains everything. 
This is an album of spaces and shadows. Within the spaces, there are things which evoke a pastanda future of Dylan and the Band. These people have created a musical and poetic rhetoric which is inescapably pervasive. Listening to "this Wheel's On Fire," which closes the album, I can hear Robbie Robertson's guitar playing from Rock of Ages, though it is not on the tapes. Listening to "Goin' to Acapulco," I get a stirring of the feelings I knew listening to the later "If You See Her, Say Hello." Listening to '~Ain't No More Cane," I keep hearing and feeling and seeing the things I knew when I first began to know the Band's second album. Which is not to say that these songs haven't a very strong individuality of their own. They do, and that is where the shadows come in. Because this album, which in many ways is a contrast to the more highly-produced albums of Dylan's and the Band's, casts light and shadows that add a thick, dense texture to the rest of their work. 
The album is filled with good spirits, with ribaldry, but also with a seriousness and purpose. Dylan and each member of the Band realize how closely they are tied, not only within their friendship but within their music. Coming together like Otis, there is an essential settling of terms. Everything is out front, nothing held back. There are songs on this album which contain a real tension which comes from the diffenences between the musicians. This album differs from slicker, more highly polished efforts, in that there was no attempt to define a role 

for any of the musicians. -The resolution of differences is a lesson in simplicity. There is never any question here that one person or the other is going to be a leader or a follower. The manner in which vocals and instruments are shifted from player to player, the way in whi~ Dylan shares writing credits with members of the Band (something that he rarely does), the assimilation of Dylan into the tight struc­ture of the Band during their songs, displays the incredible chemistry that went into this 
album. 

Out of the differences in the ·album comes a highly original style. Nelson Algren once wrote of Ernest Hemmingway, "The risks he takes are risks that, if they fail, fail the writer only. But if they succeed, they succeed for everyone." I think that this album, as most of the Band and Dylan albums, will have a great liberating effect on what has become an all-too-slick musical world. The music towers over any faults in, the production, and that is the way it should be. The courage and integrity of the people on this album stands forth, transcending any fault in recording or even in musicianshiP. 
I don't know why Dylan and the Band decided to release this album at this par· ticular time. But I have a strong feeling that it has to do with the reviving folk scene in the Village right now, and the musical community that is beginning to rebuild out on the coast, and the general good feeling that is beginning to arise out of the music scene at present. The music on this album transcends the nostalgia that could come from a bunch of songs written in 1967. It is clearly a means of saying "we. had it, and we haven't totally lost it, and if we pay at­tention and don't blow it, there's a chance that we can keep the feelings, the in­spiration, the whole impetus that once in­fused the land." 

~~~------~--------------------------------~~~--------------~----~~~-~~------­
4 the observer Thursday, July 24, 197s_ 
r----rHiS5UNoAYllilv27-l Renovation near completion 
I NO COVER CHARGE 
I ,. WITH THIS AD 
by Andy Praschak 
Associate Editor

I I 
I 

NOW APPEARING I LaFortune Center,located in the heart of the Notre Dame campus, has been under renovation sinceSKyLADY I I 1972. This renovation will soon be completed, for the time being,I according to Fr. David Schlaver, director of student activities. Schlaver will be stepping downI I from this position to continue his






SBULils I 
1 education at Michigan State

.I.,B IILUB
I u University this September.I on u.s. Jl between Niles and south Bend -Free Parking-Ph. 683·4350 I The plan originated in the fall 
• CONTINUOUS ENTERTAINMENT FROM 9 P.M. TILL 2 A.M. ..1 semester of 1972 when a group of ---------------interested students formed the 
LaFortune Renovation Committee with the purpose of evaluating the existing facilities and determining a future course of action, be it renovation or new construction. "Renovation was chosen because this is really a beautiful buildingOpen dawn till 10:00 pm 


with adequate space for facilities
9 HOLE • P~ 3 GOLF COORS! 

Driving lange and valuable historical background," said Schlaver. 
. LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWOOD 
In 1973, the LaFortune Renovation Architects, Inc., composed of three Notre Dame architects, was formed. In April of 1973, the two committees presented their plans to the Board of Trustees who received them warmly and after much deliberation allocated $250,000 for the renovation of the Notre Dame landmark 
The actual implementation of 
renovation began in the fall of the Jt most recent school year. The first Jt areas worked on were the student


WITH A PAID ADMISSION 
On !ither Th• Par 3 or The Miniature : offices: The Dome, the Notre 
Not good Sundays or Holidays Jt Dame yearbook, The Observer, 
Offer expires Aug. 30,1975 Jt and the Student BGovernment 
Jt offices. Also, the stairwells to these offices have been repaired and extended. 
Not all of the renovation process is visible to the average student's eyes, according to Schlaver. "The

r---s-riiLHUNTiNG-FORAN---1 
IAPARTMENT FOR NEXT YEAR? I
I -I I CAMPUS VIEW ONE AND TWO I I BEDROOM FURNISHED APARTMENTS I 
I I
I LOOK WHAT WE I J HAVE TO OFFER: I 
I~ I 


II * 2 T(~~~!~.S2Yu~!~ I I 
I * INDOOR SWIMMING POOL II * COMMUNITY BUILDING I
1 (complete with pool tables and pinball machine) I
I * DEAD-BOLT LOCKS I 
I * '!sK~:~~~uLR~NT SEC*U~!!~RPETING I 
I * 2 BATHS IN THE 2 -BEDROOM * DISHWASHERS I 
APTS. I
* PRIVACY Ilt SOUND CONDITIONED

* REGULAR SOCIAL ACTIVITIES * LAUNDRY FACILITIES I 
NOW RENTING FOR SUMMER AND FALL SEMESTER .1 
('75 -'7 6 SCHOOL YEAR) 1 
FOR RENTAL INFORMATION CALL 272-1441
I I 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS I 
L------------------~-...---.1. 
Now aBose Direct/Reflecting bookshelf speaker and its under $100. 
If you thought it couldn't be done, you don't know BOSE. Because the new BOSE MODEL 301 speaker is just that. A bookshelf speake1 that provides reflected and direct sound performance in the tril,dition of the internationally-famous BOSE 901® and 501 s~akers. 
It provides such astounctling performance for its size that, frankly, it's hard to belieJe that this speaker costs under $100. But it does. And, it's easy to place and can be adapted to all room environments. 
Come in this week and ask to hear a demonstration of the new BOSE MODEL 301 Direct/ Reflecting® bookshelf speaker system. You really won't believe it ... until you hear it. 
421 North Hickory Rd. 
(WEST OF TOWN &COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER) Scottsdale Mall 
roof of the building has been repainted and repaired and a new transformer has been installed, allowing more power to enter the building. 
The main lounge of LaFortune has seen the most impressive renovation. Where there once stood old carpeting, worn out and unmatching furniture and lamps, there is now winding portable couches done in a psychedelic orange and purple. The walls of 
the room are covered with at­tractive modern art paintings and each room is labeled with large 
graphic letters describing the 
room. Marlene Zloza, former student at Notre Dame, expressed a bit of sadness at this new touch to the building. "I'm kind of sorry to see them remove the "Powder Room" signs from the ladies restrooms," she said. 
This main room is also strung with new banners stretching from one side of the building to the other. The addition of live plants has also added to the decor of the room. Unfortunately, some over anxious botanists have already helped themselves to some of this university property. 
The Notre Dame ballroom, occasionally visited by famous dance instructor, Fran DeMarco, has also seen a great deal of renovation. The entire floor has been redone, the furniture reupholstered, and the walls redecorated. "We tried to give the room a common theme," ex­plained Schlaver. 
Besides the ballroom and main lounge, other areas of the building receiving attention were the 
Rathskeller, the Advanced Studies lounge, the Auditorium and the Black Cultural Arts Center. 
Schlaver commented that the $250,000 allocated by the Trustees just wasn't enought to do as much with the building as they wanted to. He noted that there is still some money left but not enough to make any more major changes. "The cost of adding another room onto the Huddle is just astronomical," he said. 
Schlaver pointed out that although there are no definite plans for the Huddle (and no money even if there were), though ideas are still being tossed around. 
There has been a type of survey done, wherein different methods of servicehavebeendiscussedforthe campus "Hang-out". However, Schlaver feels that the university wishes to continue running the Huddle to help supply additional revenue to the school. 
There has also been talk of in­stalling a type of gameroom for the 
students somewhere in the building. However, Schlaver noted that these are all just ideas right 
now. 
Schlaver, analyzing the work done so far, seemed very op­timistic about the results. "If the reaction of the summer students is any indication, the Center will be well received by students in the fall," he said. · 
What once was a drab, old building has been transformed into an attractive student center. The work, however, is not complete; it lies on the shoulders of the students and student leaders. The first task is for the students to make adequate use of the facilities and at the same time treating them 
with the respect that will keep them young and attractive for many years to come. ·second and most importantly, the ideas discussed, such as Huddle renovation, a gameroom, etc. must not be left to die with a temporary lack of funds. 
Fr. Schlaver, who has been an integral part of the LaFortune Renovation will be leaving Notre Dame for a short period and along with him, most of the students who have been working on the project all along. It is up to next uears' students and there leaders to in­sure that the LaFortune renovation is continued and the building is given the attention a student center deserves. 

f 




----------~----------~ 
Thursday, July 24, 1975 

the observer 
5 

Letters to a Lonely 
How I Spend My Summer Vacation reverend robert griffin 
Editor's Note: We taped a conversation with Father Griffin on the evening or July 21, in an attempt to rind out what he had been doing this summer, besides not writing for the Observer. Arter hanging up, we dlscovt>red that," due to a malfunction in the tape system, the entire converstion was lost. Thinking quickly, we locked one or our t>ditors up in a room to transcribe as much or the con­vt>rstion as possible. Hopefully. it does justice to the convcrstaion. 
spent the first three weeks of the summer on tour with the Glee Club in Europe. After which, I returned to New York City, where I am now staying. I'm living at St. Joseph's parish on sixth avenue, in the Village. 
Europe was lovely, but Ireland 
was the most beautiful place of all, 
the one that truly touched my 
heart. The towns were somewhat 
disappointing; they are drab and 
fairly poor. But the peoplehave 
such a spirit. They were very 
hospitable, took us in and clutched 
us to their bosoms and all of that 
jazz. 
In one town they hosted a party 
for the Glee Club. All of the 
townspeople came and they had a 
great time. The Glee Club was 
never in finer form. They sang, 
and the villagers answered them in 
song. 
I finally left the party at four 
thirty, with my host and his wife, 
as the sun was coming up over the 
hills. I looked and looked and 
searched all over, but I couldn't 
find a leprachaun. I also did not 
hear a banshee's wail, which is just 
as well as they told me it probably 
would have just been some old 
woman, and that's some omen for 
a quick death or some such thing. 
Despite the lack of preternatural 
forces, Ireland was absolutely 
stunning and breathtaking. I'm 
trying to figure out a way of getting 
back there soon. 
But now I'm back home, in New 
York City. Europe was fine, but 
there's nothing like being back in 
the Big Apple. There are the same 
old faces at the parish, and many 
new ones. 
A woman came to the door the 
other night, rather dirty and un­
washed. She told me she was one 
of the world's top ten musicians, 
but that every place she had been 
playing for had ripped her off from 
the money they were supposed to 
be paying her. 
You know, these people come to 
the door all the time, and within 
two and a half seconds you can tell 
if they are handing you a line or 
not. The problem is, whether or 
not you're going to help them. 
Some of them get you to believe 
that the'nextstep for them is out on 
the street. 
You say to yourself, "This damr 
story is false," but you want to heir. 
them, you want to be kind, so you 
start to believe them. You try to 
help them out and the next t~ing 
you find out is that you were nght 
all along. 
Well, anyway, this woman camt 
to the door and asked if I could gel 
her into the YWCA,. She said she 
had tics in her hair; I guess she 
meant lice, and she wanted 
someplace where she could wash 
them off. 
1 don't think she was telling me 
the truth, but I don't think she was 
lying, either. She really believed 
in what she was telling me. 
There are all sorts of people on 
the street. Kids who run away, 
guys without jobs. 

told me that Darby had just been to mine are having. the groomers, so I felt rather I'm sorry that I haven't written obligated to do something about ·anything. It's just that I compose my own appearance I would hate to at the typewriter, and the come up to my dog and have him typewriter that I have here is built staring at me like I needed a shave such that I can't see the letters I'm or.something. typing So I have a hard time 
. In New York, you have two writing. Q.hoices. You can go to the I wish I had something profound barbers school where you pay to say, but the profundities have your dollar and a half and end up escaped me. I guess it was the iced looking like one of the orphans who tea I drank tonight, or the bavarian gets dragged in for the budget cut. cream pie. Or you can go to have your hair run through by the fingers of some barber who tells you what condition I haven't had dinner with Abe it's in. They told me I have split Beam yet. I don't think he knows ends (imagine me with split ends). I'm in town. The same thing with 
So I had it styled. They combed Cardinal Cooke. If he knew I was it and dried it and blow dried it. in town, he'd at least have me up It's amazing how fast that drier for drinks or something. can go through the hairs on my Tell people that this stuff they head. read about New York being fear 
I got back to the rectory and I city just isn't true. It's no worse went in to see the secretary. I than it was last year. walked around the office and talked with her, posed and did A graduate of Notre Dame sent everything but stuck my face me a book of cartoons today. One under hers After an hour or so of of them has all the apostles sitting this I said ·"didn't you notice I got around, and one says "Some my hair cut'!" And she said, ''Yes miracle worker. Three weeks it looks nice." after the sermon on the mount, and 
Well, I (igured if i had to ask we're still eating leftovers." her it wasn't really a compliment. Another one has all the apostles So i asked the housekeeper, and sitting around at the last supper, she said she liked it and would be Da Vinci,style,and one turns to much happier when men went another and says, "I just love to back to having short hair. eat out." 
I've been reading a lot this Remember, Darby and I never summer. Biographies, things said we didn't love you. about the priesthood. Diary of a Well, I haven't seen Darby since Country Priest, reading The the fourth of July, and he may hav,e Plague, the character of the priest started to say that he doesn t there. Summer is a good time to love~ 'h1, I don't know. tie things together, or at least to But IS for me, I never said I try to tie them together. didn't IJve you. 
C1 DCI D CIIUiaaaa ,Iaa a a a aD a a a a a aaaaaaaaaaOCICIODOOD aCICIO DCIC 

only v, mile Southeast of campus (across from Kentucky Fried Chicken and the 

NO 
Rernard Shaw's
w 

I Arms and ~ the Man 
delightful romantic comedy July 25, 26 at 8:00P.M.
SMC 
$2.75 UTILE THEATRE
THEATRE 
St. Mary's College 
Phone: 284-4176
I 

AIR CONDITIONED.
I 


THE HOUSE OF TURQUOISE 
314 SoQth Main 259-0751 Mishawaka Open 10 am. to 6:30p.m. except Wed. & S.... 
•NAVAJO & ZUNI JEWELRY • CUSTOM SILVERWORK 


VEGETARIAN ?? 
WE OFFER A FULL LINE OF VEGETARIAN FOODS, ALSO A LARGE VARIETY OF HEALTH FOODS INCLUDING NON-MEAT PROTEINS. VISIT THE: 
HOUSE OF 
SOMETHING 




BETTER 
10% DISCOUNT ON AIL VITAMINS AND FOOD SUPPLEMENTS THIS WEEK WITH UNNERSITY ID. 287-5310 
1602 S. MICHIGAN ST. S.B. 
MEN-WOMEN 

Don't grab the first job that comes along. 
Be choosy. Look around for a job that's as good as you are. And if you look in the right place you won't olave to look long. 
We have over 300 good jobs. Electronics, Construction, Data Processing, Law Enforce­ment, Food Preparation, Welding, Photog­raphy, Missile Maintenance, Communications, Heavy Equipment, Radio Repair, Radar Oper· ation, and many others. 
You don't need experience. 
If you qualify, we'll guarantee you training in the job you choose. . And we'll pay you while you learn. 
Call Army Opportunities 

232-1616 
Join the people who've joined the Army. 
An Equal Opportumly Employer 
.~ ' \ '.'
' ' ~ \ ' \ ~ . 

--~----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·· 
Tonight I walked around town. I stopped at the bookstore and bought Jimmy Breslin's new book on Watergate. Then I roamed about for a while. Stopped and had bavarian cream pie with strawberries and iced tea. This sounds exciting, doesn't it? 
There has been a shift in the priesthood, from what was practiced in the days that these books were written and what is practiced now. I heard that a friend of mine is leaving the priesthood. That disturbs me, makes me think about the kinds of 



bserver Thursday, July 24, 1975 
autrider 


'solzhenitsyn and Lafayette 
President Ford has backed, filled, and, the president apologize for the uncommon it would be a foolish exercise in provocation t.;ven when Lafayette's wife wrote and semi-apologized for not entertaining discourtesy of missing a chance to endanger for President Ford to do the equivalent begged Washington to use his international Solzhenitsyn in the White House. Senator detente. thing. prestige, asking for the release of Lafayette, Jesse Helms says it is just a "common Henry Kissinger was justified in advising ·Washington would not do it. He expressed courtesy" to invite a NQbel Prize winner to Ford not to invite Solzhenitsyn, who his sincere sympathy in a private letter, the White House whenever he happens to be professes a mission to undermine a foreign but he would not risk the peace of this infant in the country. I do not remember that Mr. Of course, Solzehenitsyn is a victim of government. We were wrong in un-country by a dangerous affront to one the Helms cried for a special courtesy to be paid dermining Chile's government sevretly. world's great pwoers.
mistreatment and gallant witness to to Martin Luther King during his lifetime -resistance. For that he has been rightly A'nd we have no business publicly trying to 
undermine governments we havethough King, as an American winner of the honored, and the honor will not be lost or 
Nobel Prize, had a better claim to be diplomatically recognized,_ especially one
tarmished by one less invitation form the honored. world's powers and lights. The fire­with which we hope to engage in common Lafayette's son was named George after 
breathers had no thought of Solzhenitsyn's efforts at arms limitation, Middle East Washington. Yet when that son was sent to 
honor. They just wnat to make trouble. peace moves, and European settlements. America, the president would not receive 
Mr. Helms, to tell the truth, fears and Imagine an American expelled from this him. He delayed the boy's visit to the 
distrusts the kind of intellectual country, and wandering the world capital until he could make sure that achievement Nobel Prize winners are noted preaching against it. Suppose, for in­reception of him would produce no adverse for. He would be upset by most laureates if stance, Moscow had summoned Eldridge Those who consider the Kissinger attitude political results. 
they showed up in Washington. A fair Cleaver, during his most militant attacks on un-American should look to the actions of Washington was a man strong in friend­number of them have been Communists, America, for the honor of special in­the greatest American president. George ship, as in most things. But he knew that a and --even more alien to the senator from terviews in the Kremlin. This would not be a Washington considered the Marquis de president's duty often involves a kind of North Carolina --many of them are bright. way of recognizing the prose in "Soul on Lafayette a kind of spiritual son, and the violence to private feelings. A president 
Senators Helms and Thurmond, along Ice." It would be a clear signal that, despite finest donation of Europe to the American does not have the luxury of seeing everyone with 500 correspondents to the White House, diplomatic efforts at peaceful relations, the revolutionary effort. But when the French he wants to or responding to each man's wanted Solzhenitsyn in the Oval Office Kremlin was signalling its hostility in a Revolution, which LaFayette helped in its need --even a friend's need --as a private 
precisely because that is not a common gratuitous way. That would be a foolish and origins, turned 6n the Marquis and im­citizen would. Washington's priorities were courtesy--it is an uncommon symbolic act. provacative thing for Russia to do, prisoned him, Washington felt he could do clear, and his decisions, carefully made, The senators wanted to give the Russians whatever the merits or demarits of the nothing to help his friend without risking the were not easily reversed. President Ford 
one in the snoot. They are trying to make American critic's works in themselves. And national interest. should ponder that. 
seriausly!l falks 
Travels With Henry 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiar t b u c: hwaI d 
Every American going abroad should travel with Henry Kissinger at least once. I had the pleasure a couple of weeks ago of flying around Europe with the secretary of state while he held useful and constructive talks in a friendly atmosphere with Giscard d'Estaing of France, Andrei Gromyko of the Soviet Union, Hulmut Schmidt of Germany and Yitzhak Rabin of Israel. 
There is no greater honor than to be selected as one of the elite 14 journalists to fly on Mr. Kissinger's well-appointed Air Force 707 and share in the joys and heartbreak of American jet diplomacy. 1 
The advantages of traveling with Mr. Kissinger are enormous. You don't have to go through customs, you don't have to carry your own luggage and you don't have to tip taxi drivers. 
The only disadvantage is that you have to stand in hotel lobbies and in front of old castles for five or six hours doing nothing until he is ready to leave for his next stop. 
The one thing every journalist must agree on when traveling with Mr. Kissinger is that you may not identify the person who gives background briefings on the plane by name. You can't even say a high U.S. official with wavy hair, horn-rimmed glasses and Ger­man accent who had his garbage stolen last week said----' 
The only attribution permitted is "a senior American official on Dr. Kissinger's plane," and since I took the pledge I don't want anyone guessing who that could be. 
What I didn't realize until I traveled on the Kissinger plane is how involved you can become in the secretary's foreign policies. Because you are with him, the foreign press waiting on the ground assume you know something they don't, and pretty soon you find yourself holding press conferences and giving interviews on the steps of chateaus and castles in Paris, Geneva and Bonn. When you're new on the plane you tend to deny inside knowledge con­cerning Kissinger, but in a short while you become convinced you are an expert and answer every question posed to you by desperate news-hungry press. · 
While I was willing to talk frankly with the foreign journalists I insisted anything I said had to be attributed to a senior American correspondent traveling with a senior American official. 
This is how these conferences ·would go: Swiss radio correspondent: Why didn't Nancy come to Europe 
with Henry? Senior correspondent: We felt since these were exploratory talks would be too early for her to make an appearance. German news person: Did Nancy come to the airport and if so 
what was her mood? 
S.C.: She seeiPed relaxed and smiling and both she and Henry agreed that they had frank dialogues and fruitful exchanges during their dinner of the previous evening. 
French correspondent: Why did Dr. Kissinger come to-Europe at this time? D.C.: It is very hot in Washington now and he hadn't been out of the country in two weeks. Israeli TV man: If Dr. Kissinger fails in these talks what will he do next? 
S.C.: Kissinger never fails. Sometimes he may not reach a full agreement and then he is willing to settle for a narrowing of the differences between the parties which may eventually bring progress in areas at some future unspecified date within the framework of previous talks and frank exchanges. But that's off the record. 
Japanese newsman: Why did Dr. Kissinger smile when he came out of his meeting with Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko? S.C.: If you had just spent six hours with Gromyko wouldn't you be smiling? Belgian newsman: Will there be a disarmament agreement this year? 
S.C.: We're optimistic that a formula can be worked out that will satisfy all parties. I can't give you details now of our compromise plan' because Dr. Kissinger and I still have to report back to President Ford. 
British Newsperson: Does Dr . Kissinger ever get seriously depressed when he is on a trip like this? 
··~-···~·-~-~ 


SAY, MICHAEL, 

Off) I EVER. TELL lJH-HIJH! OL'lJNaE R/NNY-ARii YOtJ KIIJ!JIN6?-YOfJ AB{){JTMY MT& HIIRJ<.J5! HE I'VE NEVER F(Jl? Yti4RS, HIS BOW­fi<&AT tJNCt-& WHO NO-YOtJ WAS A MIN/IT&-' H6/IR110F INFtAMMA7llRY STAT&­fOIJ6HT IN 7H6 HAPA MAN, AN!JONE HIM.. U/A5 MEiNTS W6R13 7H& TAI.K 
AMERICAN COL.ONIGT OF THE GREAT H6 KNOUIN OF 7H& 7HIR:mEN 
R£VOW770N? tJNae.? PATRIOT ISJf)5f<S. IN HISOAY? I COUJN!£5(
~ 
Q I 

II._ ' I 
~ 




fill 

~::r ( ~~~ 
.. BUT tu&u,mr5 ~ZY. ALIAJ4Y5 B&EN A H/6H ROUER.
I 
\ 

-----------------------~--------------------------~~~ 
Thuncl11y, July 24, 1975 

the observer 
7 




The Hockey Scuffle 
Defenders of hockey player Dave Forbes think they are also defending the sport. Actually, they make the strongest possible case for abolishing hockey. 
Forbes is accused of cutting open an opponent's face with a hockey stick--it took 25 stitches to close the cut near the victim's eye. Defenders of Forbes --the ones I have heard, anyway--do not deny that Forbes hit the man in anger rather than by accident. I would not prejudge these facts in the case. But the shocking thing is that friendly people --those friendly to both Forbes and the victim --assume this was the result of a fight, and defend it precisely on those grounds. 
Fights, we are told, are part of the sport. Inseparable from it. People expect and desire them; would feel cheated if they were to disappear. Athletes implicitly contract to get heat up, gashed, sliced around and threaded through like a baseball sent several times back to the sewing process. If that is the case, then the sport should be banned. 
Admittedly, hockey is rough and 






BURY 
~~ 
and it travels at great speed: Skates a~e sharp, pointed, fast. Men collide, and thetr sticks can slash inadvertently. Men pad themselves against the shock, and becomt! heavily armored things that blunder into each other. 
Given all this, one would think the inad­vertent dangers serious enough. Adding deliberate fisticuffs and stick attacks just suggests that speed and skill are not at­tractive to the ghouls who come to see deliberate mayhem. Fights, of course, break the rules --and lead to time spent in a penalty box. But that does not, apparently, stop men from engaging in fights as a regular thing. Their very regularity is made the basis of the popular Forbes' defense. 
Admittedly, men lose their temper in the heat of the moment. It happens in basketball, football, and baseball. But it is the exception there; and it usually leads to expulsion from the game. Moreover, the fighting is usually verbal. Even when physical contact occurs, it is done with bare fists, not with wooden clubs. 
dangerous. The puck itself is heavy, edged,, , Yet in hockey men are expected to give ' 
AYE­

AMY, I HAVf3. 7H£ lAMA MA()E. A [)COS/ON! MINUTE­PATRIOT 
I AM ~SOlVe? MeN?! ANP.I 7fJ JJIN THE Ml/57601 MIN/JTEMf.N! ""-\ \ 
IJ£U,>W~ ALWAYS BEEN  5{/R£, ANPI  WHY,f?'lUL.!­HOUJ 600() 
A rA5T PI<E:tXR.. \  LOVE f'lR£Ai?MSI I  TOS&£ YaJl 'GVENI~  
AMYl IS  
NATE  

NAT&, 7HE
HE CEJ?.TAINt.Y 
BRITISH
15, PAIJLI tuHAT 
1/R£ a»fiNG!
8Rlm5 YOU {)(ff 
7HE8RIT7SH
ON A N/6HT 
AR&COMIN6l
UK£ THIS? 
and take blows with a weapon that can kill, one made for whipping pucks around. Even in boxing, one can fight {)nly with fists --and only when the fists are pillowed in gloves, and only within rules, one man on one, with a referee close at hand to prevent kicks, butting, rabbit punches, kidney punches, punches below the belt, wrestling and other violations. Once a man is down he must be left alone while the count proceeds and his opponent goes to a neutral corner. The hockey defended by some of its fans makes boxing matches look like ladies' dancing sessions. Not many boxers have the facial stitches of our rougher hockey players --and the latter have stitcher, as well, all over the rest of their bodies. 
The thing is barbaric. I admire the speed, skill, and nerve of hockey players. But if they contract to risk their own and other men's lives, to be brutalized for the pleasure of brutal onlookers, then they forfeit all that admiration. Their own fans are saying the game is not good enough, not of sufficient interest, to exist without the customary brawls, the punch-outs, the sitck work all 
r:~arry wills 
over and around men's skulls. 
The sport needs reform -as boxing needed it, and still needs it. Gradually, bare fists gave way to gloves in boxing, and open­ended fights to our short rounds and technical rules. Fighters should, as well, wear the head gear spart·ing partners are allowed --just as football players and men at bat now wear hard hats. 
But if the Forbes defenders are fight , hockey is not reformable. People will not go to see it under such restrictions. Well, we shall see. Some claim that a district at­torney has no right to protect a professional athlete from mayhem. If a boxer comes out of his corner and shoots a foe, is he immune from prosecution because his foe had contracted to fight with him? Can I kick a man in the groin because we happen to be playing tennis at the time? Can a football player use brass knuckles in the line? If so, then all professional athletes have surrendered their right to defense, under law, against criminal assault. That makes 

athletes gladiators, for whose blood we can t cry at will. That is an insult to more people l in out country than to the hockey fans. \ 
buchwald 
Travels With Henry 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii(c a n t . ] 
' 
When you travel with Henry Kissinger on his plane, you move so fast that your notes tend to get jumbled up and it's hard to keep everything he does and says in order. 
I planned to do the definitive piece on a Kissinger trip, but when I started to go through my notebook this is all I had. 
"GENEV A--Kissinger meets with Gromyko in front of Soviet 
mission.  They are both smiling for cameramen.  Gromyko now  
likes  to  tell  jokes  when  posing  for  pictures.  Will  this  be  
Kissinger's  greatest  legacy  to  world  diplomacy?  

"Large groups of American tourists waiting in lobby of Hotel Intercontinental. They are not so much sold on detente, but hall have been asked to get out of their rooms and the other half are still waiting to get into them .... Hope Henry doesn't find out they were not waiting for him .... Gromyko gave dinner for Kissinger. Menu: Red and black caviar, smoked fish, cold turkey <should oe joke 
here), cold vegetables, vodka, asparagus soup, trout served with white wine, shaslik with red wine, ice-cream cake with strawberries, French fruit, champagne and coffee ...... Kissinger gave lunch the next day. Prosciutto and melon, roast veal, red wine and strawberry ice cream and coffee. No wonder the Russians are worried about parity .... Hands down . 
"On board plane from Geneva to Bonn. Reporters go up to front of plane to be given background briefing by senior U.S. official. ~ Who happens to be a household name. ~ 
"Discussion is about SALT. Senior U.S. official may not be quoted directly but what he says is fascinating. Soviets want to have nuclear tests for what they say is peaceful purposes above the , 150 kilton limit as outlined in nuclear test ban treaty. U.S. says if \ Soviets explode peace bombs we have right to verify that tesl!' are ~ 
not above the threshold .... Below threshold means explosion for civilian needs. Above threshold means explosion for military purpose. Russians insist they won't go over threshold, but we can't look. 
"We have now problems with SALT. Under recent agreement each side can have 1,200 MIRVed missiles <more than one nuclear warhead on missile), but Soviets now have SS-17s and 19s to replace their SS-lls, which are still in place. Difficulty, says senior official, is when you look down a Soviet hole you don't know what's on the tip of the missile. We have not counted 308 new holes in Soviet Union. Russians complain we have 450 new holes in Washington, D.C. They will not take our word that we're honestly trying to build a subway. 
"Senior U.S. official's eyes get glazed as he starts talking about the new sophisticated naval cruise missile and whether is should be considered a strategic weapon under SALT or not. Then he sud­denly turns to me and says, 'Stop taking notes. This whole thing sounds like one of your columns' ... 
"As pa~t of a visit to Germany Henry must visit Summerfest, a 
beer party held in Municipal Theater in Bonn for 2,000 people. The 
Germans all love Henry and even play a song they wrote about him. 
Kissinger enjoys himself and signs autographs and drinks beer and 
gets crushed. An admiring German politicain next to me says in 
English if he had not gone to America he would have been chan­
cellor of Germany. I,!ookat him and say, 'You've got to be kid­
ding'... · 
"Only place there is some question of Kissinger's popularity is among Israelis. At castle outside of Bonn for Rabin talk an em­bittered Israeli reporter asks me why, if Henry is so happily m~rried with Nancy, does he always have to screw the Jews?" 

Thursday, July 24, 1975


the observer
8 





I USB 
Summer enrollment tops last year /USB 

by Judy Smith IUSB Editor 
Enrollment of students at IUSB for the two summer sessions is higher than for the same period last year. 
During the first session there were 2,504 students enrolled, an increase of 148 students, or more than 6 per cent. over the first session of 1974. Preliminar~ figures for the second session of 2,000 students,. show an increase of 144, or 7 per cent more than the second summer session of 1974. 
According to Registrar Beulah Schwanke, the increase may be attributed to two factors: 
--Students who want to get their degrees 
earlier. --A tight job market. Schwanke said students come to IUSB 
from other schools. "This is their home base. They come home for the summer and take courses at IUSB.. This definitely increases our enrollment." 
IUSB has a number of master degree programs which bring teachers, businessmen and others to IUSB. IUSB also has a large graduate program in education. 
The increase may be partially due to the 
scarce job market. "I'm just guessing," 
Schwanke said, "but the increase of 
New master's degrees offered at IUSB 
Two new master's degree op­available to local teachers at the portunities are available for the South Bend campus. The other two 
1975-76 academic year at Indiana are master's programs in University at South Bend. They Elementary Education and Special lead to the Master of Science Education. 
Degree in Secondary Education The new program in Counselingand the Master of Science Degree and Guidance is a limited­in Counseling and Guidance. admission program which is open Authorization for both programs not only to teachers but to other was granted to IUSB during the professioncals who seek com­spring by the Indiana Commission petency in counseling. Twenty­for Higher Education. four graduate sutdents will be 
The new programs, offered admitted and will begin their through IUSB.s division of counseling coursework during the education, bring to four the spring semester of 1976. 
number of graduate areas of study Thereafter, a new group of 24 
IUSB Auditorium given major
II 

overhaul I I 
audetoria services staff. They 
include a new main drape, a grand 

A· major overhaul of the main border drape, and a cyclorama 
Hall auditorium-theatre facility curtain at the rear of the stage. is nearing completion at Indiana Also under way is a major Univeristy at South Bend. maintenance project to 
The 800-seat hall opened in 1961, rehabilitate the auditorium sound the year IUSB moved to its present system. The project is due for campus site on the east side of completion' in September. South Bend. David Davenport, IUSB 
The major project in the auditorialfacilities manager, said rehabilitation of the theatre is there are tentative plans to 

replacement of the main stage floor. Reinke and Sons, Inc., of South Bend, is the prime con­tractor for the $20,000 job, which is scheduled to be finished by mid-August. Work started early this month. 
Also under way is the installation of a taping system for musical concerts at IUSB. The system will connect the main auditorium with the smaller recital hall in Nor­
thside West Hall and with the 
..... electronic synthesizer room in the Northside complex. The project is being done under the direction of the division of music technical staff. Three new drapes have been ... purchased for the auditori~­theatre in Northside and are bemg installed under the direction of the 
overhaul the main auditorium's lighting system next summer. 
The stage area of the auditorium-theatre was con­sidered one of the largest and best' equipped in the Midwest when Northside Hall opened in 1961. An automated lighting system was a unique feature. 
The facility has been used ex­tensively in the intervening years, by community organizations as well as by IUSB's growing music and theatre departments. . 
Another summer project at IUSB, just under way, involves the remodeling of the office of con­tinuing education, off the main Northside Hall lobby. The I.U. Trustees last week av.:arded a $14,350 contract to the H1ckey Co. of South Bend for that project. 

students will be selected for each fall semester. All students pursuing the IUSB Counseling and Guidance program will enroll in coursework to cover a three-year period. 
The Counseling and Guidance program will emphasize learning in both the cognitive and affective domains and will develop skills, techniques, and strategies ap­plicable to individual counseling and group facilitation. 
The Secondary Education program is open to all secondary teachers and other professionals who meet the IMKJ"IUI~ilo&. requirements. This degree is designed to provide many course options so that students can design a course of study that will meet their professional needs and in­terests. Teachers in a few specialized fields, such as home economics, industrial arts, some foreign languages and other areas, may still have to take some coursework at Bloomington or 
other  I.U.  campuses,  but  most  
specialization  areas  are  fully  
available at IUSB.  

The secondary-education area of 
students points out that IUSB has a pretty 
adequate schedule for the students." 
Last spring, IUSB experienced a record 
semester-enrollment of more than 5,500 
students. 

All of the IU campuses had similar in­creases for the summer. IU Bloomington had the largest enrollment with 5,753 students first session 02.3 per cent in­crease) and 9,323 (2.5 per cent increase) during the second session. The largest increase is reported at Richmond, which has 644 second session students, up 39 per cent from last year. 
IU Bloomington Registrar, M.D. Scherer believes one of the reasons for the higher enrollments at IU campuses is school drop­ins. 
"People returning to campus after several years, the school drop-ins are boosting enrollments," Scherer said. "For the most part they want refresher courses or they plan to update their professional skills and knowledge." 
Dr. Robert W. Richey, director of summer sessions and dean of continuing education at 
I. U. Bloomington, said the diverse schedule of summer courses is also attracting more students every year. 
studies includes coursework in the principles of scientific in­vestigation, in the teaching­learning process, in the foun­dations of education, and in curriculum development. Stress will be placed on the continued 
development  of  individual  
teaching  skills  and  the  use  of  
systematic  methods  to  improve  

;nstructional effectiveness. 
Detailed information about the programs can be obtained from the IUSB Graduate Advisement Of­fice, Division of Education in Greenlawn Hall. 
Players guild to present drama 
by Judy Smith 

IUSB Editor little bit because it can be a little Rossoyv hopes the audience ~USB 's Players. Gulld , bit corny. r~sponds to A Doll's House as they will present Henr1k Ibsen s A Doll The whole plot revolves around d1d Gershwin and Friends. He House July 24,25,26,31 and August Nora, who is in a marriage which added, however, that it would have 1 and 2 at 8:15, in the little theatre. is controlled by her husband. She to be a different: kind of audience. The play is being directed by is living in a "doll house," and she Other members of the cast in­Dennis Rossow. Nora Helmer, the is the doll. Torvald pulls all the elude, as Nora's close . friend, housewife who turns heroine, is strings. Christian Linden; the confidant, played by Norma Greene. Her "This is one of Ibsen's better played by Gale Hamilton. The husband, Torvald, is played by works. It is one of his middle villainous banker is played by Dale Balsbaugh. plays. Ibsen is called the "father Morice Reed. Mike Phebus plays 
"A lot of times this play is in-of realism" because his middle Doctor Rank, a close friend of terpreted as a women's lib play plays were realistic," said Nora and Torvald. Ann Nash and because we are living in a contem-Rossow. Janet Schreiber are also in the porary socitey where we are all "It is a tremendous, tremendous show. The children are played by aware of it," said Rossow. "But, play. It is exciting, and there is a Stephanie Tucker and Sandy we are trying to tone' that down A lot of plot to it," said Rossow. Rossow. 
. \' '''' 

...................
L-~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~------------------~~--~~~~~--~----------­

anrJshats 
Casting The Villain 
~iiiiiiiiiiiiiii..........................................iiiiiiiiiiiiiii t:any prasc:ia 
The old Camelot Space Program certainly isn't what it used to be. 
There we were, giving Russians tours of the very contraption we used to shoot them for spying on. From its fiercely competitive beginnings, NASA has apparently developed into one more variety of diplomatic backslapping -this time on a (literally) cosmic scale. It's probably just as well; co-operation, after a·ll., will surely be more efficient and polite. But cleaning up after the Cold War has likewise left an uncomfortable vacancy in the cast of America's political melodrama. There's no one left to play the villain. 
Menace, Anyone ? 

Back when space was a New Frontier, and Russians the political Redskins we had to fignt for it, one was always certain who the bad guys were. A Red Menace was the convenient source of every social evil from Depression to George McGovern, and around any corner some Commie could be caught peeking under the skirts of Lady Liberty. But no more. 
Ironically enough, it was the old Communist-baiter himself who did away with it all. Whatev,er else may be said of the Nixon foreign policy, it was at least the end of a cherished old American foe. But no political slouch himself, Nixon also knew that governments <and their politicians) are dependent for survival on their ability to vent national hatred. If one menace was to be reconciled, we'd need another. 
The Enemies list, then may have been the first roster of applicants. But the public, not easily satisfied with such heavies as Barbra Streisand and Shirley Chisholm, took off after the White House instead, and for a while Republicans donned the Black Hat. 
But the story ends there. One pardon and several convictions did away with the Republican Menace --if anyone ever took it seriously at all--and left the market wide open. 
If witch-hunting is to continue as the highly functional na tiona I pasttime, someone will have to find a witch. 
Enemy Within 

A few names have been offered: 
Arabs, the Trusts, Catholic Charismatics and Earl Butz have all been held up to public scorn, but with disappointing results. Some, like Alabama's Gov. George Wallace, have even tried resurrecting the Red Devil, with Wallace charging last May that "we were fighting the wrong people" in Workd War II. Still no help. 
Then again, however, the Enemy 
Within may be even deeper within 
than we realized. Recent scandals 
have turned up the 'CIA behind the 
same wiley misdoings for which 
Communists used to be blamed. 
Nonetheless, this may also be 
short-lived, and with neither a Joe 
McCarthy in the Senate nor a 
Khruschev in the CIA, the whole 
thing could lose its popular appeal. 
This all takes on a new urgency 
with campaigns coming up. The 
fact is that if anything is going to 
play in Peroia, it will have to have 
something to play against. It may 
well be the candidate with the most 
appealing problem that will win 
the White House. 
But then, what better reward for 
such a contribution? 
inside aut:~~~~~~~~~~~ 



Let Me Think 
~~~~~~~andy prasc:ha 
Why is it that anti-abortion (pro­life> advocates never seem to make any sense to me? It took me, as well as many others, many years to finally reach a personal decision on the delicate and highly sensitive issue of legal abortions in the United States. Regardless of what my final decision was, anti­abortion people such as B. Keefe N Montgomer>' and Joe Copora I page 10 ) seem to work against rather than for their cause. Granted, they will be applauded by members of their organization and congratulated by sympathizers with their position but for the undecided, the person who is searching for "the answer", they provide only an endless channel of confusion and rhetoric. 
B. Keefe Montgomery, executive director of Life Is For Everyone wrote to The Observer, expressing dissatisfaction over a "menstrual regulation" advertisement which appeared in the first issue of the newspaper. He notes that he was offended by the advertisement and deserves an explanation because his group spent $650 on ad­vertisements in The Observer. He calls for positive action from the newspaper, in the form of an educational forum. 
To my recollection, the majority ran in a January issue of the paper. confiscated the papers he . would 
The ad consisted of four pages of have done it himself...an in­signatures of people opposed to the telligent comment by a person Supreme Court decision. asking people to sympathize with Educational? Only in the sense him on such a sensitive issue. that I now know that Digger Phelps Even more of an intelligent is against legalized abortion. statement is that he is only sorry 
Montgomery emphasizes that that Fred Graver was not con­this is his paper and he was of-fiscated by the administration. fended. But what about those who Why doesn't he take it into his upheld the decisions of the himds to do that one himself? Supreme Bourt and this decision in ·Corpora accuses, "You are 
particular? Could it be that they were offended by their four page peti lion? Is Montgomery assuming that the paper does not belong to these individuals also? 
Joe Corpora wrote to The Ob­server expressing his disgust over the same ad that was run in the paper. Corpora, who last uear ran for Student Body President at Notre Dame, told the Editor-in­Chief of the Summer Observer that 
if he was so unhappy at Notre Dame to "LEAVE". This is the man who a few short months ago promoting murder of innocent unborn children." Is the. confused onlooker to assume that murder of "Innocent unborn childrenqisany less serious than murder of a person? Hopefully they will not and will see this as another attempt to play on the emotions rather the logic and common sense of the reader. 
Corpora closes his letter asking for an apology from The Observer for running the ad. I would like to close asking for an apology from Corpora and all the other people 
was asking Notre Dame students who have made it so difficult for to elect him as their official people like myself, who have representative. We can thank our anguished through piles of color lucky stars he lost the election. pictures of mutilated fetuses, 
This one-time candidate ex-pages of words designed to play presses his happiness that the only on the emotions, and hundreds student newspaper was con-of nonsensical comparisons of the fiscated4 because it contained an Supreme Court with the Hitler advertisement hedissagreedwith. forces, to reach a .. decision we 
of the $650 was spent on an ad they Even·if theadministrationhad not feel in our hearts is the right one. 

BARLO 


lr----------------i 
PLAYHOUSE· I This Weeks Special... I
INSTANT CREDIT 

I DICK'S ~ Front ·end I 
"FANTASTIKS,. 
I -"· ~ alignment I I J ~ g;f~ only $8 . .,
July & ~August 

I7/1•[ w;RECK;~r ON ~LL 
American cars
AT TINKERS DAM 0
/ !; ROAD SERVICE ~ o PE~.~~NT A~~co~~
MICHIGAN CITY, 
MOTORTUNf.UP~_:_ sTuDENTs AND 
BRAKE SERVICE _.::._ FACULTY
INDIANA WHEEL ---DIAL . 
ALIGNMENT \10:\.-S.\T. 7am-llpm
234_0707
Dick ICruk -Own•r 

RESERV. (219) 1102 So. llend .Ave. SUN. !I am-Spm South Bend, Ind 46617 (Discounts not applicable
879-7373 

specials.) 
~~-------------------­
-----------·----,..... 
~ 
., .. . . . . 

Thursday, July 24, 1975 
the observer 
9 



•
········~·······················You expect more from Standard :
• d . •
• an you get 1t. 
T.. • 
:•t FLOYD'S STANDARD SERVIC~f~: • 2~30 Lincolnway West STANDARD • : Mishawaka, Ind. ~~~ : • Phone 255-0552 VW Service and Used VW Parts • : Inspection on Foreicn and American Cars • 
• V W for SALE -Complete Car Repair ­
••••.........................:• 



Cavalier 
Camera 
Scottsdale Mall 
next to 

Bishop's Buffet 
0 ~en Till 9 pm Evening s 5 pm Sunday 
Camera and Darkroom Supplies 
········•···•································•·•••·•··•··········· 
24 J ~~ 0(/ 
~ 
,p
0 

J & J G~I~L U' 
\

I p
M 327 N. MICH•G . ',~ I 
u 
N

llam-llpm
s B 
I Daily Dinner Specials A 
L
c only $1.49 

"""> D /L 
A 

································································~ 
LITURGICAL SCHEDULE 
SACRED HEART MAIN CHURCH 
June 23 through August 3 
MONDAY THRU SATURDAY. 
8:00a.m. MORNING PRAISE IN THE lADY CHAPEL 11:15a.m. CONFESSION 
11:30 a.m. MASS 5:00p.m. CONFESSION 
5:15p.m. MASS 7:00p.m. CONFESSION 7:15p.m. EVENSONG IN THE 
lADY CHAPEL (EVENSONG ON FRIDAY WILl BE. CELEBRATED IN THE GROTTO) 
SUNDAY. 

9:00 a.m. MORNING PRAISE IN THE lADY CHAPEL 
9:30 a.m. MASS 
10:45 a.m. MASS 
12:15 p.m. MASS 

7:15 EVENSONG IN THE lADY CHAPEL 
'• 

-


----~--------~ -· 
·' 
1 0 the observer 
STEVE GOODMAN 
AND 

RON BUFFINGTON 
in cuno:rt SundJI', July 27 Dunn Summn ThcJtrc MichiJn.t Shure' 4 .. \0 p.m. and 8:00p.m. All ,t..l!, rcocncd -$4 $~ S6 Ticket> avJi!Jblc at: ThcJtrc Box Otncc, ror rcM:rVatiunS and information call: 
( 219) 879-9782 
a=I 
THE 

RESUME PLACE 
25. 8 1/2 X 11 
RAG BOND Only $2.55 insty-prints~ 
203 SO.BEND, IND 
289-6977 
Thursday, July 24, 1975 

House Painting 
DOES YOUR HOME 
NEED PAINTING? 
EXPERIENCED 
PAINTERS (TWO N.D. 
G~ADUATES) WILL 
PAINT INTERIOR­
EXTERIOR 
VERY REASONABLE!! CALL 234-1889 For Free 
Estimate 

THIS WEEKEND 
AT 




N ICKIE'S 
LIVE MUSIC!! 
Every WED., FRI., & SAT. From 10:00 p.m. to 2:00a.m. 
-NO COVER­-NO INCREASE IN PRICE­FREE PARKING -A&P LOT 
928 N. EDDY, S.B. (Just a Few Blocks South of NO} 
.. 


P.O. Box Q 
tation of our thoughts. I believe that it was in poor taste to accept The Right that ad, especially when most of the students were not at school to to What? see it. Yes, Mr. Graver, this would have been an "outrageously large issue", but not exactly in the ways 
Dear Editor: 
that you would have thought. Let

I am writing to you at this time in 
me assure you of that.

reference to the summer issues of the Observer . I have before me the June 12 and the June 19 issues of the Observer. I am disgusted. I Indeed, it was unfortunate that 
'must tell you that the June 12 issue. our paper was confiscated. This 
would undoubtedly take first place in a yellow journalism contest. Supposedly the issue was put out for the alumni on campus. It was absolutely horrible. Your bias and prejudice against the University were so very clear. There wasn't a single complimentary article about the University. All the IIetters you ran from the school year were those that did nothing but complain. tried in every possible way to make Notree Dame seem as awful as possible. 
In some aspects I must say that Notre Dame is bad or lacking also. 
e.g. The University of Notre Dame remains a coward by not taking a corporate stand against abortion. If they took a stand they might lose 
I some money and 0! God forbid that. 
But if you really are that unhappy at Notre Dame because there are so many problems I can offer you some advice. LEAVE! 
The second and main point of this letter concerns a pro-abortion ad which appeared in the June 12 issue of the Observer . The run­ning of such an ad is morally and professionally respirresponsible. You are promoting murder. I don't know who was responsible for the ad but as the Editor-in-Chief of a five man staff, you must be held responsible. It is a shame that one who would promote murder of unborn children should be the Editor-in Chief of a school newspaper. 
I am so happy that the University administration con­fiscated the papers. I have two regrets. One, I must believe that the University confiscated the paper so that the alumni would not see it and would continue to give. The papers were put out of cir­culation so they could not be seen anymore. My second regret is that 
the University adinininstration did not confiscate you--putting you out of circulation so that you could not be seen by anyone. 
You said that if all the students were at school, the University would not have confiscated the papers. That's probably right. I would have beat them to it. 
I am sorry that the ad was run in a newspaper on a Catholic campus especially. I must repeat that by running the ad, you are promoting murder of innocent unborn children. This is indefensible. I would like to close asking you for a public apology in the Observer for running this pro-abortion ad. 
Thank you sincerely. 
. . yours for LIFE' Joe Corpora 
Whose Observer? 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing concerning your advertisement of June 12, 1975 tJurchased by the National Health Care Services: I was very sorry that it slipped your attention and was printed. 
The Observer is known as a 
was the only recourse that anyone had, and I salute the ad­ministration on its decisive action. You really should have proofed a little better, Graver. 
You see, this is my paper, also. I am offended by the ad's ap­pearance. This past semester my group spent over $650 on ad­vertisements in your paper. I feel that my group deserves some explanation. 
Why doesn't The Observer do something positive? You could sponser an educational forum, presenting both sides, so that the students can make their own decisions. Education is an integral part of the issue, something evidently you have missed. We'll be more than glad to help. I am expecting a reply. 
Sincerely, 
B. Keefe Montgomery 
Exec. Dir. LIFE 
Confiscation Congratulations 
Dear Editor: 
In the ever changing world of ignorance and sin, it is• reassuuring to know that there still exists an eduucational institution in America thhat maintains thhe high ideals of medieval in­tellectuual thouught. In reading the June 19 issuue of the Observer, I was midly surprised to find that your debut summer issue (June 12) had been censored by Ad­ministration officials. And I thought I held the honor of being the last censored editor at Notre Dame! 
In 1970, I was one of the Seni<>r Editors of the Notre Dame Student ~usiness Review, which at the time, was funded and produced by and for the undergraduate students in the business school. 
Our final edition that Ye.!r was by the university press to my room in Morrissey Hall, pending distribution by our staff. The next morning, one of the deans business school (who shall remain nameless) got one of the maids to let him into my roor:n; he promptly loaded the coniple~ editioq of the· Review, some 1200 copies into a waiting pickup truck and hauled them away. Evidently, he had seen an advance copy and reacted with typicaLknee-jerk tactics. The 
materiD.l considered offensive was the cover· and inside cover as the business schooladministration, at the school's expense had them 
replaced and mailed out a revised edition to the business students later that summer. (Not sur­prisingly, they never did send me a questioning the quality of education and specifically , a business education, at the University. Unfortunately, the confiscication and censoring oc­cured late in the school year, after the Observer had ceased publication, at a time when students were either preparing for final exams or, as in the case of a concerned minority, protesting the 

U.S. invasion ofCambodia. I don't know that the inclination would have particularly upset the majority of business•.students anyway, even if some vehicle of communication such as the Ob­server had been available to in­form them of it. As graduating seniors, our only recourse was a confrontation with the particular dean, but this only resulted in creating more heat than light. 
Our mistakes were 1) foolishly trusting the administration of the business school and 2) presuming the existence of freedom of thought and press at the University. In relating this incident, I did not intend to dwell on an occurence of five years past that may be con­sidered trivial by many, but I think the incident provided me a better "business education" than the four years I spent studying and going to class. 
Notre Dame has outwardly made great strides since 1970 in such areas as minority enrollment and coeducation but to borrow the words of French novelist Alphonse Karr: "Plus ca change, plus c'est Ia meme chose." 
Sincerely, 
James F. Burke 
Bicentennial 
Reflections 
Dear Editor: 

Re: Point-Counterpoint, Ob­server, July 3 (and by the way, where was counterpoint?) 
Judging from the enthusiasm of its co-chairman, the Notre Dame­St. Mary's Bicentennial Com­mittee would do well to fold its tents and steal silently away. The SO?ner the better. 
Mr. Ronald Weber expends 500 words of plastic prose recounting his struggle not to be cynical about the nation's forthcoming 200th birthday celebration. The attempt issues in almost total failure: His manful, heart-warming conclusion is that the celebration just might matter a little if we-uh-hold our noses and try . 
Mr. Weber's pholosophical agomzmg <which inflict ·. real agony on the ears, eyes, minds, hearts, and stomachs of many of his readers) rings an especially specious note when one con­templates the probability of spilling such egregious garbage around any other country's land­scape. 
To admit America s im­perfections is one thing; to dwell on these to the point of being blind to what is good is a form of self­hatred that ill becomes the citizens of any country, especially this one. 

-
students publication and most COJ?Y ~) people accept it as a represen-Our censorable sin was Charles W. McCollester 



More ND icers drafted than from any other college 
There's really somethin' 
big happening in Minnesota these days. The first trial initiated against a professional hockey player, or for that matter a pro athlete, has been held. 
Boston Bruin Dave Forbes was charged with aggravated assault, with the incident occuring January 4 against the Minnesota North Stars' Henry Boucha in the Twin Citios. The assault is with a deadly weapon, a hockey stick. 
A guilty verdict would possibly have major impact on the depth and breadth of violence currently found in pro sports. The jury of seven men and five women never reached the unanimous verdict, voting 9-3 in favor of the lesser charge of simple assault. 
The story has not ended, as the fact of a hung jury could mean the possibility of a second trial for aggravated assault. In addition Boucha has filed a civil suit against Forbes for the facial cuts, 30 stitches in the eye, and the lingering double vision from the incident. 
Hennepin <Minneapolis) County attorney Gary Flakne has not decided about the second trial, but offered, "I don't see any reason why we shouldn't go again ." According to Flakne, a second trial might depend on the availability of witnesses. 
Flakne's line of prosecution was that the Forbes' attack was not an ordinary fighting incident in 
hockey . He argued it was an assault, not a fight, therefore a crime, a deliberate attack with a weapon. 
Defense attorney Ron Mesh­
besher took a similar line in 
arguing on behalf of Forbes'. He 
claims that the incident was not out of the ordinary in a sport such as hockey and in fact the sport encourages fights, a risk every hockey must take when on the ice. 
Meshbesher claimed in his 
closing remarks that Forbes was 
homejobbed, had Forbes been in a 
different uniform that January 
night, the trial would not have been 
initiated. 
Another point made by both Forbes and his attorney was that the injury was caused by a punch rather than by the stick. Forbes was seeking to even the score after Boucha threw a 'rabbit punch' in preliminary confrontation during the game. 
You want my opinion? Well I wasn't at the game, so I have to pass, knowing not much more than what's been written in the media. One friend, a Notre Dame senior who lives in Minneapolis, attended the game last January and was 1sitting cross-ice from the penalty 
box, where Forbes did the work on 
Boucha. This source also has been 
playing Minnesota's own game, 
hockey, for all his life. 
According to this person, Forbes 
skated straight toward Boucha 
after both players emerged from 
the penalty box. Forbes wasted no 
time in using his stick on Bo1,1cha. 
he related. According to this 
Domer, it was no usual hockey 
fight, but a vicious and seemingly 
deliberate attack. 
Now my own opinion. It seems 
that the attack was hardly what 
one would call a normal hockey 
fight. But the NHL did nothing 
about curbing similar incidents in 
the future. Forbes' was given a 
mere ten game suspension ... end of 
punishment. 
I wish to propose that the affair 
should have been strongly dealt with by the National Hockey League, not civil authorities. It seems to me to be a sad state of affairs when the law has to in­tervene in pro sports, for the protection of other athletes. 
In more local hockey news, head coach Lefty Smith should be fraternizing with basketball coach 
Digger Phelps, trying to learn the secrets of weathering the pro draft storm. 
In the hockey draft held by the NHL, Notre Dame had more players selected than any other college team. The players, all who have or will Iurn 20 this year, and their teams are: Len Moher, Buffalo Sabres; Paul Clarke, Montreal Canadiens: Roger Bourque, Montreal Canadiens; Clark Hamilton, Detroit Red Wings and WHA Indianapolis 
Racers;  Jack  Brownschidle,  St.  
Louis  Blues;  Alex  Pirus,  Min­ 
nesota  North  Stars  and  WHA  

Calggary Cowboys; and Kevin Nugent, Boston Bruins. So for the most part there is the 
nucleus of a Lefty Smit~ team which has the makings to go places in the CWCHA next season, given these players stick around to complete their degree and also 
. imorove their hockey game. 
So Lefty why don't you take Digger out to lunch and find out how the good basketball coach kept Adrian Dantley around for another season. 

BOOGIE RECORDS ,------BOOGIE RECORDS -----BOOGIE RECORDS ---i
! FIRST CONCERT. · ~ ~ CELEBRATION SALE!! ~ 
-= 
~All EAGLE LP's $399· ~ 
t; (THURS.-thru-SUNDAY) 1 
~Why pay more when you don't have to! l 
I • • 
I 

1 Rock • soul • Jazt Blues Bluegrass
I I I;;;
• Special orders filled promptly! 
~ I <13-AAJIJ ~
919-B College Square= OUVfRECORDS Mishawaka, Indiana : ~ Phone 2SS-0266 (across from Town & Country) J 
0 "Your Seven-Day-A-Week Music Store" • · 'I 
~------.o·-0-G-IE-RECORDS-----..aOGGfi RECORDS-----BOOGIE RECORDSJ 
Thursday, July 24, 1975 
the observer 1 1 
TONY S SHO REPAIR 
HAND MADE SANDALS TO YOUR SPECIFICATIONS. SELL WORlD'S lEATHER SHOES.PICK YOUR STYLE 
NOW LOCATED BEHIND BADIN HALL OPEN: . 8 a.cn.-4:30 o.rn. M:F 8 a.m.-l p.m., SAT. 
283-1144 QUICK SERVICE & REASONABLE PRICES 
$1 OFF ·ALL EAGLE'S 
ALBUMS 
288-1178. 
A FULL SERVICE RECORD STOR 
NEXT TO RIVER 2923 MISH. AVE. PARK THEATRE 

Lunches: Monday thru Friday 11 lf1-2: 15 
Dinner: Monday thru Thursday 5:00-11 :00 Friday and Saturday 5:00-12:00 
Sunday 4:00-10:00 
WE HONOR CHARGE CARDS 55285 U.S. 31 NORTH 272-5478 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
fOR SALE 

Turquoise Lovers! Handmade Navalo Squash Blossom fOr Sllle, from New Mexico. ca 11 Tom 234·56-46 
M' 'CHEVELLE. Greet Engine; good transportation. $100. Call Dennis a~ 1094 
FOR RENT 

HOUSES AVAILABLE. Summer or Fall. Near campus. Good condition. 
234-6519 
2 ROOMS. s.«l per mo. Glr1s. Air cond. 
7S19 
TWO 3 Room Apts. \ newly decorated. Wood.panelled. Fully Carpeted. All ~utilities\ Included. $150 per monthh. First months r~t & secuurlty deposit. No pets. Call 291·5750 or 287·8509. 
WANTI!D 
HANDYMAN. REDUCEDr~t ~ summer.for slnQte room near campus. 
234-6519 

MARRIED COUPLE to serve as llve.Jn houseparents for teenage boys In residential setting. S6000 plus salary. Time off each week, paid holidays and vacations. Insurance, room and board. Call 259·5666, 9 to 5 weekdays only. 
NOTICES 
INTERESTED IN no·frllls low cost jet travel to /Europe Africa, Middle East, Far East at minimum cost, maximum flexibility end Iminimum • 
hassle?  For  Information  -call  
ectua~tlonal  Flights  foll.free  (8001  
:RJ-5569  

PERSONALS Frankovelglas-­ls that a deflnate "no" on the birthday stereo? . Love, Prodigal Daughter 


working towards this goal in violation of University rules willNotre Dame's summer session. 
the College of Business Ad-•'!:========================::£ 
mean automatic expulsion form ministration. I' The other students, all members the University. Willie Fry is a defensive end ,.......""~"'"""..............................................................
,
of the varsity football team, are According to a July 25, 1974 issue from Memphis, Tennessee. His Luther Bradley, Willie Fry, Al of the South Bend Tribune, the six quickness and aggressiveness ~ CHECK OUT ~ Hunter and Dan Knott. The students were reportedly involved helped him earn a monogram in 
students will all be returning with in an on-campus incident reported the 1973 season as a backupsophomore status, leaving them to the St. Joseph County police on defensive end. Fry is a member of with three years eligibility, ac­July 3 by an 18-year-old female. In the National Honor Society and 



I HOPS N' SPIRITS! 
cording to NCAA regulations. the complaint, the woman alleged studied a.t Phillips Exeter 
Also, all athletic grants and aid that she was raped. The six men, Academy in New Hampshire one 
~ THIS WEEKS SPECIAL I
held by the players have been however, denied any involvement. summer. He is enrolled in the re.nstated by the University. Patrick Brennan, attorney for College of Science. · the woman, stated last summer, AI Hunter is a halfback from ~6 PACK OF COKE IN CANS 99' ~ Th~ five students, like any that because of the suspensions, Greenville, North Carolina. He is student suspended for reasons of neither the woman or her parents best remembered for his record­~ . ~ 
money, health, discipline etc. would seek criminal action against setting 93 yard kickoff return for a needed three clearances to be the men. The University has touchdown against Alabama in the ~ FOUR POPULAR BEERS I readmitted. These include stressed the fact that the students Sugar Bowl. He won a Herring academic, the dean of the student's were not being disciplined for a A ward as the outstanding fresh­AT FOUR SPECIAL PRICES particular college must certify criminal offnese. man back. He is enrolled in the good academic standing; medical·, College of Arts and Letters.
Backgrounds 

!I WE SELL KEGS AT THE CHEAPEST I = 
in cases where health is a par­Dan Knott is a halfback from ticular factor; and most im­Luther Bradley is a defensive Chowchilla, California. He played portantly in this instance, half back from Muncie, Indiana. mostly with the J.V. team, being ~ PRICE' IN TOWN ~ 
disciplinary. Bradley led the squad in in-the second leading rusher. He The disciplinary clearance is lettered as a long and triple 812 E. LASALLE AVE.
I I 
handled by the dean of students, terceptions in 1973 and was in­jumper with the Irish track squad. John Macheca. Considerations in strumental in the Southern Cal Knott is enrolled in the College of I 281-2ss1 1 this area include the player's victory by preventing a long gain Business Administration. 
~''''''''"''''''"'"''''''"~~ 
12 the observer Thursday, July 24, 1975 
Five student ath-letes readmitted for fall session 
activities in both the work and on the opening play, interceptingFive Notre Dame students, study fields during the; past year. two passes, forcing a fumble andsuspended last summer for what To help reach a decision M~checa recovering another. He also ranthe university called "a serious 
had letters from each of the five sprints for the Irish track team.
violation of University rules" have been readmitted to the University. setting out why they wished to He is enrolled in the College of 
return to the University and had Business Administration.
The sixth man, Roy Henry, 
letters of referance from people

suspended for the same violation, RossBrownerisadefensiveend 
who knew them during the past from Warren, Ohio. He opened his 
did not reapply for admission and is enrolled in Southwestern year. career by blocking a punt ror a In keeping with university policy safety in the 1973 Northwestern
Louisiana University. 
in this area, both the contents and game. He led the squad in tacklesThe readmission for one student, sources of the reference letters is for loss with 15 for 104 yards. HeRoss Browner is contingent upon 
making up an academic being kept confidential. All were wonaHerringAwardinthespringreadmitted on conduct probation, of 197i as the outstanding defen­
deficiency. Browner is now which means that any serious sive end. Browner is enrolled in 
Foreign Car Parts Co. 
) Parts & accessories for imported car for all makes. at lowest prices.
llle1ional Olatributor 

'************************* 
: For all Studt>nts, Faculty & Staff, a 10 ~*pt>rct>nt discount with ID and purchase of * lt $10 or mort> * 
t.***********************. 
215 Dixie Way N Roseland· So. Bend 
RACING EVERY TUESDAY NIGHT. 
SOUTH BEND MOTOR SPEEDWAY Time trial at 7:00 p.m. Race at 8:30 p.m. 
Track located 3 miles west of So. Bend on Western Ave. 



NO stadium undergoes 
needed 
When the Fighting Irish thunder out onto the football field this fall, a few changes in the stadium's appearance will greet the rousing fans. Over the past couple of weeks, construction has been undertaken towards the renovation of the press box perched high atop the stadium wall. The initial construction began on July 7, and has been focused mainly on the tearing out and rebuilding of the radio broadcasting booths. During the 45 years since the stadium was built, a series of buildings have been tacked onto the original press stand. A job foreman for the project pointed out that eleven types of construction were discovered in razing the radio shacks. 
In all, then new rooms will be erected above the press stand. The glass enclosed steel framed building will consist of nine 10 by 8 by 12 rooms and one larger double room. The apartm-ents will be used not only as a broadcasting headquarters but as meeting rooms and as a site for a Notre Dame coach and a visiting team coach to maintain their bird's~ye­view of the game and serve as spotters for the various plays in progress. 
Perhaps a more recognizable improvement for the Irish fan will be the newly sodded football field. Fifteen years since the last major sodding, the natural turf has already been laid down in preparation for the 1975 season which opens its first home game against Northwestern on Sep­tember 27. 
A further improvement will be noted in the appearance of the concourse: its surface has been completely asphaulted. 

renovation 

MEN-WOMEN 
70,000 
Job Openings. 
Good salary. Your choice of training in over 300 good jobs. Work near home or abroad. Educational opportunities. Free medical and dental care. Free housing, meals, and 30 days paid vacation. Special bonuses. Physical training. Adventure. 
If you qualify, we'll guarantee you job training. And pay you while you learn. You'll start at $344.10 a month (before deductions). With a raise to$383.40in JUSt four months. 
Call 

Army Opportunities 232-1616 
Join the people who've joined the Army. 
An Equal Oppgrtumty Employer 
THROWING A PARTY?? 
HELPING YOU IS OUR BUSINESS 
5 OF THE HA·NDIEST SPOTS IN TOWN 

1. HANDY SPOT PARTY SHOPPE 
U26 Mi1howako Ave. 
172.5 N, Ironwood 
• 
WINES • GOURMET FOODS '• LIQUORS • PARTY SUPPLIES 

• 
COLD BEER 


"If it's available, we will get it for you." 




FREE DELIVERY 

287-7744 

3. ROSELAND PARTY SHOPPE 
113 DixioWay N. 
4. GOLDEN FLASK PARTY SHOPPE 
_.13 Hickory Rd. at McKinloy 
5. PARTY SHOPPE SOUTH 
-4-401 S. MichiQGn at Ireland 
OF SOUTH BEND 
It requires much work to maintain the stadium. Numbers must be repainted on seats yearly. Wooden benches mush oc­casionally be replaced. Mortar, chipped concrete, and loose bricks are all repaired annually in the never~nding effort to maintain safety as well as the appearance of the edifice. 
The superintendent of the stadium for the past eleven years, Harold Benninghoff, explained that five years ago, all the ben­ches, seats, and bracketts were removed and waterproofing of the concrete was undertaken. ThiS" was done to help 'prevent dangerous ice paths from forming and also to protect the concrete 

from cracking during various weather conditions. Said Ben­ninghoff, "We will have a few surprises for the people when they return for the games this fall," and with these major improvements and renovations over the spring and summer months, the Irish rooters will have even more to look forward to when the season gets under way. 
-... 











