Oa The Inside 
Hunger Coalition 
.•. page 2 

Senior Ball 
... page 6 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX No. 67 Monday, January 27, 1975 
Flanner expulsions investigated 
by Terry Keeney News Editor On December 14 seven Flanner Hall residents were asked to leave the campus as a result of disciplinary action taken by Flanner rector Fr. John Mulcahy. The seven students, five juniors including the hall vice­president and two sophomores were given various, unsubstantiated reasons for the action. The ex­planations ranged from having attitudes detrimental to the hall to charges of violating University regulations on alcohol. marijuana and hall damage. 
These seven students were never formally charged with violating any University or hall regulations. They did not plead their case through existing judicial channels on campus--through the hall judicial board for hall violations or through the University Judicial Board or the Dean of Students office for University violations. 
The case was decided by Mulcahy in his capacity as hall rector. Mulcahy has refused comment on the case. The Flanner Hall rector is also University Housing Director. 
"I'm in no position to say anything," Mulcahy said. 
In a statement in the Observer of January 16, Mulcahy also declined commnet. "I can't say anything One Flanner Resident Assistant noted that the seven without hurting someone," he said. students were guilty of certain university offenses. 
The case of the Flanner students provides an The fact that they were allowed to move off-campus example of the power of the hall rector. In this case, kept the charges from appearing in their permanent Mulcahy asked the students to leave or face possible records. university charges. "They wanted to live on campus, but they didn't 
want to abide by the University rules," the R.A. said. Threatened University Charges "We let them go off campus with no record." 
The seven students deny guilt for any violations of Brian McGinty, Student Government Judicial Co­University regulations. Among the charges brought ordinator explained the process involved. against them by the Flanner hall staff are hall 
"Essentially what Mulcahy did was blackmail,'' damages, alcohol abuse, use of marijuana and anti­McGinty said. "Mulcahy said to the students: 'Leave hall attitudes reflected by placement of signs in the or I'll charge you with a University violation.' " section. 
The seven students asked to leave state that Mulcahy "We pretty well reconciled the damages,' " Roether 
threatened to go to Dean of Students John Macheca said. "And as far as smoking goes only two guys in any with charges of alcohol abuse, drug abuse and hall way could be classified that way." damage if the seven took their case to the hall Judicial Frank McGuire, Flanner Hall President, cited "lack Board. of communication" between the hall staff and the 
Peter Roether, one of the seven who served as hall students as the source of the disciplinary action by vice president, noted a conversation he had with Mulcahy. He charged that Mulcahy had no evidence Mulcahy. against the seven that could have qualified under "Mulcahy said, 'Don't bother going to the J-Board. University discipline procedures. 
I'll just go over it,' " Roether claimed. 

by Jeff Pecore 
Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame Alumni Association Board of Directors concluded its winter meeting at the Center of Continuing Education this weekend with an informal question and answer period in­volving Student Body President Pat McLaughlin Friday night and a brief meeting Saturday morning to take care of unfinished business. 
McLaughlin did not give a for­mal presentation, but instead answered questions from the Alumni Board concerning student affairs as well as informally talking to Board members at an alumni dinner. 
"The meeting went well," McLaughlin said. "We discussed housing, coeducation and the basket ball ticket situation." McLaughlin found the alumni to be "very open" and said that the topics were "actively discussed so that we knew where each other stood. 
McLaughlin also explained the status of the proposed off-campus food co-op which still depends on a possible $12,000 loan from the University. 
Mr. Edward Bracken, Alumni 
Board member and liason to the 
Observer, said the "the Board is 
1•ery appreciative of the Student 
Governments presence at the 
meeting . McLaughlin did a good 
job of responding to our questions. 
We're kind of proud of him. 
The Alumni Board meets three 
times a year, once in the fall, winter, and spring. This year's winter meeting was considered a "good time for introspection and reevaluation because of the lack of an Executive Director, Bracken said. The position was vacated when Mr. James Cooney resigned last year. 
Dr James Frick, Vice President of Notre Dame in charge of Public Relations, requested that th~ Board review such operations as electionsof members to the Board, and the Universal Notre Dame Night, held each year by all of the alumni clubs across the nation. 
"It's not easy finding the right 
men to serve on the Board," 
Bracken said. "They've got to be 
civic-minded men that can afford 
to take the time away from their 
own businesses to come to the 
meetings. It's difficult to do that 
sometimes." 
The Universal Notre Dame 
nights are chances fer alumni in all 
parts of the U.S. to get together 
and discuss matters of usually 
academic nature concerning the 
University. "This Universal Notre 
Dame Night also extends to places 
outside of the umted States," 
Bracken noted. "We have 
alumni clubs all over the worl(f•; 
Another matter discussed at the 
Board's Meetings was the growing 
importance of female participation 
in the Alumni Association. The 
Alumni Association is strongly in 
favor of coeducation at Notre 
Dame and wants women to become 
active in Alumni affairs as the number of female Alumnae gradually increases. 
The next meeting of the Alumni Board of Directors will be May 1, 2, and 3. The biggest job ahead of the Board before the next meeting will be to find a new Executive Director. The University is in the process of conducting over 150 personal interviews with men seeking the post. The selection will 
probably  be  made  within  the  
month.  
On  the  agenda  for  the  spring  

meeting will be a report on the progress of the reorganization begun at the winter meeting, and orientation of the new Board members. At least three men who are within five years of graduation are always selected to serve on the Alumni Board because they are more aware of the present situations at Notre Dame. 
The Board also plans to discuss some new ideas such as how to utilize the experience of former Board members who have finished their three year terms and have lost contact with the University. It has been suggested that the minutes of the triannual meetings be sent to each of them and this is already being done. 
The Alumni Board will also talk about the possibility of forming a Future Alumni Committee which would establish communication with the seniors at Notre Dame to help them become more active in the Alumni Association after graduation. 
(continued on page 7) 

Poll shov.rs 0-C life 
cheaper than dorzn 
by Robert Jacques Staff Reporter 

A survey r released yesterday by Stan Cardenas, student government off campus commissioner shows that the average cost-of-living pel' month is nearly $80 ll!ss for a student residing off­campus than in a dorm on the Notre Damecampus. 
The poll encompasses 241 households representing 891 students or better than 60 per cent of all off-campus students. The survey was taken during registration for the 1975 spring semester. 
According to Cardenas, the tabulated figures reflect that at­titudes and life styles of the students, the housing situation, cost-of­living, and the general quality of off-campus life. 
The poll shows that only 30 per cent of all off-campus students were forced to leave the dorms because of a lottery or disciplinary reasons. 
As for the 70 per cent who left voluntarily, the reasons were, according to Cardenas, because, "People get sick of parietals, drinking rules, and dorm life. They find a private room likeable. It's also cheaper." The only disadvantage commonly shared is the inconvenience of living away from the campus. 
The poll shows that 3 per cent of the renters considered their houses or apartments to be substandard while 7 per cent rated their landlords as "bad". Cardenas stated that Fr. Thomas Tallarida, Director of Off-Campus Residents, will investigate these housing and landlords to ascertain the validity of the complaints The results of the inquiry will probably be open later to students moving off­campus. 
Concerning the number of houses sustaining a burglary, Car­
denas sees the actual figure as being between 20 and 25 per cent. 
He added that up to 35 per cent of all burglaries go unreported. 
Cardenas and his staff of ten plans to use the information from the 
poll for a packet which will be offeredto any student who leaves the 
campus for private houseing. Viewing chances of a lottery for the 
fall semester as "50-50," Cardenas plans on giving approximately 
one hundred of the guides to each hall president. 
In the near future the commissioner plans to present the results 
of the survey to Bro. Just Paczesny, vice president of student af­
fairs. As to how that office will use the figures Cardenas stated, "I 
honestly don't know. I won't speculate on it now." 
Exerpts from the survey follow below: 
Rent per month $66 per person 
Does your rent include utilities? Yes 27.5 per cent No 72.5 per cent 
If no, which utilities must you pay? Gas 65 per cent Telephone 100 per cent Water 38 per cent Electricity 95 per cent 
What is your total utility bill? $45 per household per month 
What is your weekly food bill? $13 per person 
Have you or someone on your block been victims of a burglary or theft? Yes33percent No67percent 
Why did you go off-campus? :~0 per cent cheaper 45 per cent rejected dorm regulations 34 per cent rejected ND community life (dorm life concept< 51 per cent other 
Have you had friends from ND over for social activities? Every day 20 per cent Once a week 32 per cent Once a month 48 per cent 
Did you remain active in on-campus activities? Yes 53 per cent No 47 per cent 
How did 0-C life affect academic status? Better 38 per cent No Change 54 per cent Worse 8 per cent 
Did you register to vote in South Bend? Yes 20 per cent No 80 per cent 
Monday, January 27, 1975
the observer 

warld briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPil. Sen. Howard Baker R.-Tenn. said Sunday he would favor subpoenaing former President Richard Nixon, if necessary, to testify before the Senate Select Committee which will probe government intelligence operations. 
GRESHAM, Wis. (UPil -The head of National Guard forces surrounding the abbey held by armed Indians near here said Sunday he's afraid "real problems~' c~ul~ result if a Tues~ay deadline for an end to the occupation lSn t met. The deadlme ultimatum was delivered during the weekend by a group called Concerned Citizens of Shawano. 
ALGIERS <UPI> . The world's major oil exporting natio.ns agreedSunday to take part in an interna~ional con~erence With consuming industrial powers and developmg countries to tackle global £'nergy and economic crises. 
HONOLULU <UPll -A federal report released Sunday warned 
35,000 persons living on the island of Hawaii that they are in the 
path of an awakening volcano that has an awful potential. 
The report warned of hazards that include lava flows, falling 
rock, drifting gases, clouds of volcanic ash, violent ground ruptures 
and even tidal waves. 

BANGKOK <UPI> -Voters in Thailand balloted Sunday to pick their first civilian government after 43 years of almost unbroken military rule. Early returns showed no clear victor. 
BOSTON <UPI> ·The defense, armed with a recent U.S. Supreme Court decision prohibiting sex discrimination in jury selection, prepared to argue Monday for dismissal of an abortion­manslaughter charge against Dr. Kenneth 0. Edelin. 
an campus l:aday 
4:30 p.m. lecture, "The Catalytic Power of Enzymes" by prof. daniel e. koshland, room 123 nieuland science hall. 7 p.m. dance lessons, with fran demarko, Iafortune ballroom, $1. 7:30,9, & 10:30 p.m., movie, what's up tiger lely?, eng. aud. 
Coalition to sponsor Anti -Hunger ~neal 
The deadline for signing up for the rice and tea Anti-Hunger meal has been extended through Tuesday night, Jan. 28, the campus World Hunger Coalition announced yesterday. 
Anti-Hunger day will be held on February 2 in the ACC. Fr. Hesburgh will celebrate Mass at 
4:00 followed by a short speech from s.,. Richard Clark of Iowa who is a leading proponent of the hunger issue in Congress. He will also answer questions. Then a rice and tea meal will be served from the concession stands. About 2000 students have signed up so far and other students may sign up in the dining halls on Monday and Tuesday nights. 
St. Mary's representatives will also be signing people up at meals and they expect at least a 60 percent turnout. 
A $.75 rebate for each meal will be forwarded to the Hunger Coalition w1'10 will give the money to CORR <Christian Organization for Relief and Rehabilitation) in Bangladesh. In order for this rebate to be awarded, the dining hall number must be checked off in the food lines in the ACC. 
The faculty and staff have also been sent invitations explaining the objectives of Anti-Hunger Day, and encouraging them to bring their families to the activities in the ACC on· Sunday. There is a charge of $1.50 for adults and $.75 for children for the meal. Ap­proximately 50 percent of this charge will be donation for CORR. 
Money will be collected in the food lines. Interested persons may call the Ombudsman Service (283-7638) between 9:30-5:00 or from 10·12 p.m. and give the number of those in their family who will partake in the meal. This also applies to off-campus students who would like to participate. 
WSNDAM-FM 
Positions are now open for News personnel, Technical and Production Engineers and Sales personnel (a liberal 
commission is offered on all sales) 
Audition sign-ups Monday Evening • Jan. 27 36 1 O'Sha 6-Sp.m. 
On Kissinger relationship 
Rockycounters challenge 
NEW YORK <UPI) -Charg­ing that his integrity had been challenged, Vice President Nel­son A. Rockefeller Sunday became visibly angered when asked during a television interview if his friendship with Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger would prejudice his investigating committee's probe of the CIA. 
Helen Thomas, UPI's White House Reporter and one of the three panel members on CBS's Face the Nation, asked Rock­efeller if he would "finger anybody who is involved" in the investigation of charges of domestic spying . . . "even if it involves you and Kissinger." 
Rockefeller, chairman of the special seven-member commit­tee probing domestic spying allegations against the CIA, prefaced his answer by telling Miss Thomas, "Well, I have to say to you, that in your question you question my integrity." He went on to say that "wherever the facts lead 
SMC swimmers defeat DePauw 
by Mary Egan Staff Reporter 
The St. Mary's swim team directed by Head Coach Sheila Rafferty defeated DePauw 64-49 in a meet held Saturday at De Pauw in Greencastle, Indiana. 
Rafferty is aided by Assistant Coach Lynda Ruocco. 
The team formed in November because of Rafferty's idea to have a competitive team. St. Mary's has never had a competitive team before. A team met last year for practices, but did not compete in any meets. 
The team practices from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. every Monday through Thursday in the Regina pool. "We have a strong and evenly-timed team," stated Rafferty. "We're very pleased. The members really work hard, which is important. Most of them swim on their own after practice ends for an extra hour or two," she added. 
Last Saturday the team com­
peted in a triangular meet with 
Valparaiso University and 
'Chicago State at Valparaiso. 
The Observer is published dally 
during the college semester except 
vacations by the studl!nts of the 
University of Notre Dame .nd St. 
Mary's College. Subscriptions 
may be purchased for $9 per 
semester IS16 per year) from The 
Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
us we'II go and you can be assured of that." 
Following is the text of the question and Rockefeller's reply:
Thomas -Mr. Vice Presi­dent, the President has said that there have been abuses of CIA domestic sying since '64 and '65. You were involved with CIA, in some connection and so was one of your good friends, Secretary Kissinger, and you also gave him a gift of $50,000. Will you finger anybody who is involved as the facts stack up, even if it involves you and Kissinger? 
Rockefeller -Well, I have to say to you that in your question you question my integrity. Excuse me for saying so but the public ought to know. I've taken the oath of office to support the Constitution of the 
United States and to support this country against enemies from within and without. And when I take an oath I carry out that oath. There is no conflict as far as I'm concerned with anything or anybody. I'm there to do the jobs that are assigned to me and to do it without any prejudice or other connection or anything. Therefore, wherever the facts lead us we'll go and you can be assured of that." 

HELEN REDDY 
with Specia I Guest 
PETER ALLEN SUN. FEB. 9th 8:00 P.M. 
Ticket Prices Bleachers . . . . • • . $4.50 Lower Arena • • . • . $5.50 Floor, Loge •__ • • . $6.50 and Platforms • . • • $6.50 
Concert Tickets Now on Sale 
NOTRE DAME, A.C.C. 
Mon. ·Sot. 9 to 5 
Robertson's 
South Bend & Concord Moll 
St. Joseph Bank 
and branches 
First Bank 
Main office only 
Elkhart Truth 
NOTRE DAME 
ATHLETIC AND CONVOCATION CENTER 




BLACK ANGUS 0 
STEAk HOUSE ;5 
z

STEAK HOUSE 
TUESDAY &THURSDAY SPECIAL 
RIBEYE or CHOPPED SIRLOIN DINNER 
$1.39 (regular $1.79) 
'P')•oNQQO 'JPI/t --­
_....----.9.. 

DINNER MENU: SIRLOIN STEAK DINNER 2.29 RIBEYE STEAK DINNER 1.79 CHOPPED SIRLOIN STEAK DINNER 1.79 CHOPPED SIRLOIN SAND­
WICH  1.59  
T-BONE STEAK DINNER  3.79  
HAM STEAK DINNER  1.99  

HAM STEAK SANDWICH 1.69 FISH DINNER 1.69 FISH SANDWICH 1.59 CHICKEN DINNER (4 Pieces) 2.69 SHRIMP DINNER (21 Pieces) 2.59 HAMBURGER PLATTER, 
FRIES .99 

ALL ABOVE DINNERS INCLUDE BAKED POTATO OR FRENCH FRIES, SALAD, & TOAST. SANDWICHES INCLUDE POTATOES OR SALAD. 
OPEN 11 :00 a.m. · 9 :00 .m. 7 DAYS A WEEK 
Monday, January 27, 1975 the observer 
Ecqnomy to affect ND graduates 
by Martha Fanning Staff Reporter 

Notre Dame students graduating this year face an extremely tight job market due to the current recession. stated Richard Willemin, Director of thP 
Placement Hureau·said yesterday. '"The number of jobs open to graduates is tied directly to the economy and companies are not hiring as many graduates as in previous years." 
Since January llth,twenty-three employers have cancelled their visits to the placement bureau, and only eight new additions have been made. Last semester the total number of cancellations was thirty-five with thirty-four com­panies added. 
"This differs considerably from last year when additions were two or three times greater than can­cellations," commented Willemin. 
"All over the country campus visits have been reduced. Possibly Notre Dame visits have not been reduced to the extent of other schools," he added. 
The hardest hit areas, in the current recession, are auto in­dustries, major electronics, communications, public utilities, and any industry directly related to the auto industry. 
Companies dealing in financial assistance, chemicals, petroleum, metals, printing and publishing are in a better state. 
These conditions are reflected in the job situation. In a .·memoran­dum sent out by the bureau la~t December, Willemin stated that "engineering and accounting majors will continue to have good job prospects, while marketing, finance and management students will experience increasing dif­ficulties in landing jobs by graduation time," There are still good opportunities in these areas. 
Openings for students in the college of Arts and Letters have decreased since last year. 
"If the economy does not change by the end of the semester, all graduating students without specialized skills will probably 
Senate to vote today 
CIA investigation expect 
By l'\JCIIOLAS DANJLOFF 
WASHINGTON CUPI) -The congressional investigation into alleged abuses of the CIA and FBI is expected to pick up momentum Monday with an anticipated Senate okay of a new select investigating com­mittee. 
Approval by the Democratic controlled Senate is considered a foregone conclusion following a 45-7 vote last week by the party caucus. 
Senate Democratic Leader Mike Mansfield will name the chairman and five other mem­bers to the 11-member commit­tee, which is to report back by Sept. 1. 
The committee will conduct a Watergate-type investigation but without the glaring televi­sion publicity which character­ized the Watergate hearings. 
Meanwhile, the Watergate Committee learned that the FBI bugged the late Dr. Martin Luther King's hotel suite at the 1964 Democratic Convention, the Washington Post reported Sunday. The bugs and wiretaps were ordered by Lyndon B. Johnson to gather intelligence on potential civil rights violence 
Senior class fellow to be 
nominated soon 
Nominations for this year's Senior Class Fellow are being accepted until the end of this week, according to Senior Class President Greg Ericksen. 
The nominations should be 
brought to the Senior Class Office 
<Morrissey Loan Fund) or to the 
Senior Club any time this week. 
Each petitions should include the 
nominee's name at the top, and 
also the name of the senior student 
sponsoring the candidate. Twenty­
five senior signatures are also 
required. , 
Ericksen stressed the im­
portance of moving up the deadline 
one week, to Friday, January 31, 
"We want to contact all nominees 
by letter or phone within a month 
to see if they would be able to at­
tend." 
The final balloting will include 
only those nominees who are 
available. "It is a waste to vote for 
someone who can't attend," added 
Ericksen. 
The Senior Class officers are 
also looking into some new 
procedures for this year's voting 
and sponsoring. Anyone with 
questions concerning the Senior 
Class Fellow program should 
contact Greg Ericksen at 3687 or have to take jobs well below their aspiration levels, if they are able to find any job at all," stated Willemin. 
"It is important to remember that the situation has altered since last semester when many forecasts in college recruiting were made. The situation has become worse and could continue to do so," he added. 
With the decrease in campus visits mailing campaigns will become more important. Nearly all the employers who have can­celled interviews will accept resumes through the mail. 
The placement bureau offers advise and counselling to students for such a campaign. The bureau maintains files on students and alumni and has character references and other material useful to individuals seeking jobs. 
"Those students seeking a job should develop a resume and cover letter, select employers in the locations they want to work, and get the letter in the mail," said Willemin. "They should let the companies know when they will be 
or disruption at the convention, it said. 
So far, Mansfield has been tight-lipped about whom he will appoint, saying that he could not begin to consider names until the Senate has officially acted. 
Nevertheless, Sen. John Pas-tore, D-R.I., who authored the resolution for the Senate Select Committee on the CIA, is mentioned as a likely chair­man. 
Pastore, who was shocked by the domestic and foreign activities of the CIA revealed by Director William E. Colby, says he will not serve on the committee. Bur' old-timers around the Capitol suspect Pastore is merely indicating he won 't use the committee to further his own political career. 
Congressional sources say Mansfield is determined that the committee be fair, youthful and unassailable in its composi­tion. 
Senators with presidential ambitions would be dis­qualified, the sources say. 
Pastore is highly respected among his Senate colleagues. His service as vice chairman of the Joint Atomic Energy Committee, which handles high­ly sensitive government secrets without leaks, is considered an important qualification. 
Vice President Nelson A. 
Rockefeller, who is chairing a special presidential commission on the CIA, said in a televised interview Sunday it would be difficult for the congressional committee to prevent leaks. But he pointed to the Atomic Energy Committee as proof that it can be done. 
Rockefeller added that he thought the CIA had engaged in illegal surveillance, and that his commission would find out who authorized it and why. 
Some of the names younger senators mentioned as possible candidates for commit­tee membership are John Glenn, the former astronaut; John Culver, the newly elected Democrat from Iowa; Walter Mondale, who recently re­nounced his presidential ambi­tions, and Sen. Joseph Biden, 33-year-old Democrat from Delaware. 
In other developments Mon­day: 
-Rockefeller convenes the presidential commission for its third session. The panel is to report its findings by April 4. 
-The House Steering Com­mittee is expected to establish an ad hoc subcommittee to study creation of a House Select Committee for investi­gating the CIA. Rep. Jonathan Bingham, D-N.Y., and Rep. Robert Giaimo, D-Conn., are reported to be among those who would serve on the 5 to 7 man ad hoc panel. 
available for interviews. Spring break is a good time to make personnel contacts." 
The placement bureau has listings of employers' addressed along with the occupations available and requirements for the positions. 
Information is also available for summer employment for graduates and undergraduates seeking such jobs. Those looking for summer jobs should follow the same procedures. 
"Mailing campaigns are im­portant this year. but they may not :produce as good results as last year, with the increase in com­petition from unemployed workers and other schools," commented Willemin. Students are also ad­vised to check the weekly bulletins posted outside the bureau's office. 
All graduate and undergraduate students are welcome to use the resources available at the placement bureau," he concluded. 
The placement bureau is located in the Administration Building, room 213, and is open from 8:00 ­
12:00 and 1:00-5:00 Monday thru Friday. 
Woody Allen Film Festival Tonight Engineering Audiioriurn 7:30 9:00 10:30 

,----------------­
{ WORLD HUNGE~ COALITION 1 
i RICE AND TEA MEAL i· 
I I SUNDAy FEBRUARY 2 I I
I I 
1 ln The A.C.C. I 
II MASS WITH FATHER HESBURGH 1I 
I I
I The Last Night For Sign-ups Is Tonight 1 I A 75 ct Refund For Each Person 1 I Who Signs Up Will Go To Il The World Hunger Relief Fund. J 
7442. 
~----------------------------------' 
THE OBSERVER 
A"' INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER EDITORIALS: 283-866l NEWS: 283-1715 
BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Pete and Jim 

Tom Drape Terry KeeneyFred Graver 
Editor-in-Chief News Editor 
Editorial Editor Bob ZogasBob McManus 
Business 111\anager
Advertising Manaaer 
fr bill l a ahe_y
Monday, January 27, 1975 
_I've really been learning ~ lot these past few days from the frtends of Pete Lardy and J1m Ward. I have been learning how much they have been taught by these two men. They've learned more from them than from a dozen profs or priests, a hundred books or boring classes. 
I have been truly impressed to see how students were touched by 
these two lives. Friends of Jim Ward were still shocked by his 
sudden, tragic death on the Florida shore. But they were still able 

Take the first step 
From their beginning, the Gay Students of Notre Dame have stated that they were not politically oriented. It has never been their intention to confront the Notre Dame community with a challenge towards its sexual attitudes. They recognized from the beginning that to do so would almost insure the death of their organization.
And yet, one must ask how long the Gay Students of Notre Dame can last in their present state. Presently, the University does not recognize the existence of homosexuals. This lack of respon­siveness leaves a total vacuum, making it almost impossible for the survival of any homosexual member of this community. 
Handicapped 

In the third part of the series on homosexuality at Notre Dame, printed in last week's Observer, this vacuum was described. Counselors and advisors have been left handicapped by the University's lack of sensitivity. There has been no groundwork set, no precedent for relating to the homosexual through University "channels." 
It is time to recognize the mores and attitudes in this community that are proving destructive, not only to those whose sexual orientations differ from the norm, but towards all those who do not fit into whatever molds we have set out to separate the different from the "nor­mal." 
Responding 

The Notre Dame community has a difficult time responding to heterosexuality, in all its varied forms, let alone homosexuality. There are enough difficulties present in responding to the roles of women on this campus, let alone those who do not fall into the strict definitions of male and female which our culture imposes. When we can't find it in our hearts to become sensitive to the problems of those whose skin color is different, how can we expect to un­derstand the complexities of a life whose difference runs much deeper than the color of the skin? 
It is fairly obvious that the Notre Dame Community, in many of its attitudes, is a good five years behind the rest of the country. But, when it comes to homosexuality, we might as well look to the dark ages for a parallel, for we haven't even begun to look at ourselves for a response to that situation. 
Where do we start? How do we go about bringing this problem into the open? Who do we ask first? For that matter, who will be willing to speak first? 
Inconsistencies 
In the case of every social and cultural 
upheaval there has been a tremendous 
amount of struggle, a certain amount of 
soul-searching and perhaps a bit of 
anguish. Minds have had to be opened, 
staid (and often untrue) ideas shaken 
down, and at times the very core of in­
dividual lifestyles has been destroyed. 
The response, until now, of the 
University community towards 
homosexuals is an ugly stain on its 
record. When considered in the light of 
its involvement to help all minorities, it is 
a gross inconsistency. 
Beginnings 

Within this vacuum, though, where do 
we begin? Perhaps it is best to begin 
within ourselves, as we have tried to 
begin within ourselves in our un­
derstanding of women, blacks, and other 
minorities. Realize who we are, where 
we stand, and what needs to be done to 
change what is presently wrong. 
Perhaps it is overly optimistic to 
foresee a move after that, but if there is 
any move to be made, a self-evaluation is 
the first step. 
The Editorial Board 


'OH, HIM? •• WELL, HECK, WE ONLY TURN HIM LOOSE WHEN IT'S NECESSARY!' 
the observer 
Night Editor .. Andy Praschak 

Ass't Night Editor .. Maggie Waltman 
Layout --Mike Sarahan, Martha Fanning, Marlene 
Zloza 
Copy Reader --Pat Hanifin 
Day Editor --Bill Sohn 

Editorials --Fred Graver, Martha Fanning 
Features --Robert Baker 
Sports --Greg Corgan, Bill Brink 
Typists --Martha Fanning, Kathy Grace, Don Roos, 
Neil Viii, Rick Huber 
Compugraphic Operator --Bob Steinmetz 
Picture Screener --Albert D'Antonio 
Night Controllers --M.J. Foley, Dave Rust 
t? ~peak most clearly of the profound influence of this quiet, sen­
Sitive, talented young man. One of Jim's friends put it well: "In a 
way, I'm shattered by Jim's death; I find it hard to believe and to 
a~cept. I feel almost desolate over his loss; and, yet, when I think of 
him, my sadness is overcome, in a strange kind of way, with so 
many neat recollections that I find myself smiling. How ap­
propriate that on the day he died he had gotten up early to watch 
the sunrise. It w_as so like _him. He was so open to life, so caring of 
other people, so m touch w1th what really mattered in life. In a way 
I'm more conscious of his presence now than ever before." ' 
One of his room-mates told me: "Jim was never afflicted with 
that tunnel-vision some pre-meds have. He was a brilliant student 
_<Due to gr~duate with honors this May l; but he taught me how 
1mportant It was to be open to all that life had to teach. He was 
i~terestt;d in Iit~rature and the arts and was thinking of spending 
time, quite possibly next summer, working on a CILA project."
Another associate told me that on of our admimstrators nad mentioned to him that he didn't believe he had known Jim Ward. "I wanted to say to him," the student added, "that that was no sur­prise. Jim was a student leader, but not in the way you usually think of the term. He didn't try to become well known by the powers-who-be; he wasn'tinterested in playing the game of con­nections. He was on no campaign or vaulted mission. He just tried to be real; true to himself and genuine with those he happened to come into contact with . And because I was lucky enough to be one of those, my life will never be the same." 
Though Pete Lardy was a third-year Law student and married, he was a lot like Jim -in the sense that he, too, quietly touched very deeply those who grew to know him. I received a letter just yesterday from a couple who were very close to Pete. He got out of his sick bed to be godfather for their little girl. Theytriedto express what a very special person Pete was to them. "Pete is amazing," they and others told me on another occasion; "He shows no resentment or bitterness over the crushing blow fate has dealt him. He refuses to turn in on himself with self-pity. You go to visit him in the hospital and he spends most of the time inquiring sincerely about you. You leave feeling that you are the one who has been visited by the presence of a person who cares about you as few friends ever have." 
I have rarely, if ever, heard students talk about a colleague with such feelings of real love. One of Pete's classmates spoke of how deeply moved she wast the way Pete and his wife, Brenda, worked through their crisis together. "They refused to let the threat of death block the decisions that they had made. For example, Brenda shared Pete's strong sense of purpose; and he believed it was necessary for his integrity to remain fully active as a law student. Neither of them would cater to death and allow it to deter them from living life to the full, for as long as they were to have it tol{_ether." 
To receive these personal reminiscences has been a gift I will long treasure. They don't need any commentary; the experiences of the friends of Pete and Jim can stand on their own. At the very least, they document in an unforgettable way something most of us have felt; Whatever else you say about Notre Dame, it is the people who count -the associations and friendships that profoundly 
change your life. 
DOONESBURY 
8U/X£T CUTS, SENATOR. 
I 
11/&U, TH/3 NO L.ONG£R!­ti/HIT£ HOIJS£, IN RESPONSE 70 Or C/JUI<S/3 I 71-113 P/?£SIPGNT's 
8IfT 7HAT's PLEA 7lJ R£/)(JCC AN OlO TRA-P.IA5T!FUl FifJ&/?Al OtT/ON/ "'-SPENfJIN(j, W&'R£ ~~,._/ LAYIN6 HIM OFF. 
by Garry Trudeau 
WUl, SIR, IJIH&fi!& 8U[}(£T twf/LO Yal SAY 
CUTS?/ 7H& TAX-PAY&R IS 
P.IH&R£? 6&TT!Nf3 TH& ?CA5T R£71/I?N ONHISHJN&Y?
\
_...-:;>~,._/ 
N4 tuCR£ 
PAST 711AT­
WE'V&GOT THG VOT£5. 
__.,.,~,_! 


Monday, January 27, 1975 the observer 
5 

an attachment of love and devotion 

by iii/ truitt 

Fifteen laymen are buried among the 702 Dame during the Civil War. He planned to known. He had taught at the University of priests in the community cemetery on the become a priest, but after changing his Chicago and was chosen President of the west side of the Notre Dame campus. The mind found that his affection for the school International Congress of Botanists at the 
official records show that most were at­was such that he stayed on for fifty years. Chicago Exposition. He presented Notre tached to Notre Dame through service, but During those years he served as professor of Dame with his 4,000 volume library and what the records don't say is that they were history, director of the Lemonnier Library herbarium consisting of 100,000 specimens. 
mainly attached through love. and founder of Bishop's Memorial Hall He gained fame as a botanist, but was also 
Joseph A. Lyons was the first layman to which contained records of practically all well-known as a student of many languages. I be buried in the community cemetery. He American bishops as well as a great number He wrote forty books which expressed his came to the campus in 1848, six years after of sources pertinent to the history of appreciation and love of nature. His the university was founded, and began work American catholicism. fascination with nature inspired his 
as an apprentice in the shoemaker's shop. His passion for books was such that he students, especially Father Nieuwland. He I 
He eventually took classes; was graduated spent his vacations visiting bishops, priests, had asked to be buried at Notre Dame and 1 in 1862, and stayed on to become a and laymen collecting books, manuscripts, was laid to rest in the community distinguished member of the facu1ty during and mementos of the pioneering Church in cemetery in 1915. 
the next 26 hears. In 1925, 37 years after his America. By 1879 he had collected 10,000 
death, a residence hall was named after volumes. A fire that ruined five University Pastor Villaflor was the first Filipino to be him. buildings destroyed his collection. Within 
admitted to the United States. He made During his years on campus, Lyons two months Edwards had gathered another tapestries, cassocks, and vestments for the Holy Cross Congregation at Notre Dame
specialized in literature, organized several thousand volumes, the seed from which 
until his death in 1955.

literary societies and published several grew the present library and archives. hooks. One of his books, published in 1869, Before his death in 1911, Professor Ed­He came to the United States in 1901 at the was written to memorialize the silver an­wards helped establish the Laetare Medal. 
close of the Philllipine Revolution. Pastor, as his friends called him, was also the first
niversary of the university. It tells the story Each year since, Notre Dame has an­of Notre Dame's founding, the early nounced on Laetare Sunday the name of a Filipino to shake hands with Teddy 
Roosevelt, then the President of the Unitedstruggles, and it includes short sketches of Catholic to be honored for work done for the States. His talents included weaving,
some of the professors and graduates. Church and country. Buried beside Lyons is his friend ancl Dr. Albert Zahm came to Notre Dame as a 
singing, piano, and violin. He toured the colleague, Joseph Arthur Stace. In 1860, student in 1879. After graduation, he stayed 
United States and Europe playing the guitar and singing his native songs. His audiencesjust before the start of the Civil War, Stace on as a math professor doing experimental Pnrolled as a student. He grew in stature as work in aviation. He designed the first wind 
included such dignitaries as Pope Leo XIII a philosopher, scientist, and linguist until tunnel and constructed a man-carrying and Pope Pius X. his broad knowledge enabled him to teach glider. He took to the air inside what is now 
He gained

almost any course offered at that time. He LaFortune Center. Some believe his was first recognition for his needlework in Chicago in 1893. He won a he smoked it. He told the owners, "It's the
was recognized for his poetry, something he the first successful flight, although the wrote mainly for his own amusement. His Wright brothers first gained recognition. prize at an exhibition there for his em­weakest stuff I've ever had. You should 
broidery design of the cross. Because he grind it up and sell it to the ladies for !1er­
specialties, during thirty years on the Zahm 's achievements soon became spoke Spanish, Latin, and French fluently, fume". He then proceeded out the door and faculty, were mathematics and science, two nationally recognized. He was appointed language students came to him for in­fainted in the gutter.
interests he combined with a brilliant chief of the aeronautical division of the struction. Later some became leaders inimagination. For example, after studying library of Congress and organized Johnny Mangan knew everyone onthe Church and in educational circles.
the botany of the Rockies he wrote a America's first International Aeronautical campus including Peg, the switchboardProfessor Frank J. O'Malley made hiscollection of verse about it. In pioneering Congress. His amiable character as well as operator, Martha, the cook, and Fatherhome at Notre Dame for 46 hears. He camescientific studies at Notre Dame, he in­his scientific genius were awarded when he John Cavanaugh, the University President. 
as a student and remained as a professor of troduced the study of astronomy. By 1889 he received his Laetare Medal in 1925. 
They loved the warmth and liveliness of the English until his death in May, 1974.

was well enough known nationally that man. The Colombia Broadcasting Company 
scientist, Lee He established an emotional com­
President Cleveland appointed him a Another Edward Green, wanted to do a movie about Mangan as themunication with his students; they filled hismember of the scientific commission joined the Notre Dame community in 1895. 
perfect Irish character; however this never

He was Episcopal minister before classrooms as they loved to be with him.
representing the United States at the an en­became a reality because of troubles withHis whole life was devoted to the studentsWorld's Exposition at Paris. tering the Catholic Church in 1885. When he the script.
and the University. Since his life story wasJames F. Edwards was a student at Notre came to Notre Dame he was nationally 
much told recently, there is no neeed to repeat it here. Johnny knew that the Holy Cross 
John Mangan, an Irish lad, first saw Notre seminarians prayed for the souls buried in Dame in 1910. He came to the U.S. from the community cemetery and so he wanted Ireland to be near his brother, a seminarian. to be buried there. He would say, "When I He had planned to work on his uncle's farm, get buried I'll need a lot of people praying but upon seeing Notre Dame exclaimed, for me". And pray for him they did. "My God, Notre Dame is for me!" He was Little or nothing is known about seven part of the University for forty years as a laymen buried in the community cemetery chauffeur. behind Holy Cross Hall. John Lauth was a
\ \~ 
student and professor who was devoted to 
In order for Johnny to leave tns nome the Church. Four of his brothers were or­country, he had to recite a pledge to his dained at Notre Dame. Professor Michael mother. "Not hell or thee devil will ever get T. Corby is down on record as developing me to drink liquor." In 1917 a flu epidemic the vocal music department at the hit the campus. Mangan became ill and was University. Edward P. Dunbar was a put in St. Joseph Hospital. He could not student who died in a drowning accident. leave the hospital until he took some liquor His parents had him buried at Notre Dame 

for medication. Nevertheless he told the where he had spent his boyhood. There are doctors, "Not hell or thee devil will ever get four unknown laymen; Williams, me to drink liquor". He then sneaked out of Morrissey, Astenberger, and James F. the hospital and never did drink. Miers. 
Johnny had a stubborn pride which caused him trouble on a few occasions. He Not all the laymen buried in the com­was visiting a trustee in Illinois one day and munity cemetery were outstanding asked his host where he might buy some scholars, but all of them grew to love these strong tobacco. He went to a place owned by acres and many considered this home. The Italians who gave him tobacco for "iron years of service they devoted helped to peddlers and stove molders only". Johnny create the spiritual atmosphere that still said black horns came out of his ears when exists at Notre Dame. 


of mr. allen, who is short and wears glasses 
by bill wylie 

There is a certain sense of bemused character Allen is identifiable; he being that often than not he meets with exasperating each vignette, the film was unable to sustain amazement that accompanies the viewing slight, bespectacled creature tormented and futility. "Play It Again, Sam" epitomizes a consistent levt>l of quality throughout,of a Woody Allen film; an amazement more besieged by a world gone crazy behind the this search for the romantic hero. Here although most of the film is still true-to-form often than not concerning itself with the facade of normalcy. Allen's reality is what Allen turns to the unabashedly masculine gregarious comedy. Finally, "Sleeper"relative sanity of the man. But Allen's happens to the character Allen, constantly figure of the Hollywood dreammakers: represents rilmmaker Allen's best effort to outlook is apparently the obverse: he seems bungling in his efforts to strike back at the Bogart. Bogey; the man who could make date. It is more controlled and consistent to wonder at the sanity of the world, for his chaotic world, attempting to land a blow for Ingrid Bergman cry, make Edward G. than his earlier films; is Jess dependenthumor revels in the hilarity of the absurd. the individual. This character Allen is the Robinson cringe in fear, and simaltaneously upon dialogue for its comedy. Quite possibly, he is the neurotic of a director-writer Allen's vehicle of ex­out wit Sidney Greenstreet and Peter Lorre. It cannot be said that Woody Allen's neurotic America. pression. He moves his character type Bogey is literally Allen's alter-ego, or at popularity is uni versa!; his comic 
Allen began his career .H1 the coffee­through amasochisticsearch for an identity least what he would like to be; the tough guy profundity (or lack thereof) is not ac­houses of Greenwich Village graduating to in a variety of circumstances that alternate with sensitivity. cepted by all. But those who do enjoy the nightclub circuit in such places as between ego-deflation and pathos. Allen's brand of humor seem to be staunch Chicago's Mr. Kelly's. His first real control With the exception of certain episodes in devptees. Possibly, this can be attributed to of a movie came with "What's Up, Tiger Because of his untiring devotion to the "Everything You Always Wanted to Know a deeply felt empathy with the character Lily?", where he removed completely the individual, Allen is also an incurable About Sex", Woody Allen's Allen. When we (for I am among those who soundtrack from a misbegotten Japanese romantic. The world with all its com­emergence as a filmmaker can be traced do believe l see him stumble or get slapped super-spy film, and replaced it with his own, plexities and pratfalls is the real villain in chronologically. From the coarse beginnings in the face by life, it is a part of our own his motive being that "Sex and violence are Allen films. In the tradition of the British of "Tiger Lily", Allen's cinematic dexterity character that laughs, much like Americans my assorted breads and butters." Although highwayman, the American cowboy outlaw, has improved markedly. "Take the Money" did not so long ago with Chaplin's Tramp crude and oftentimes inane, "Tiger Lilly" and the Depression era bank-robber, is the was uproariously funny, but sporadic. character. There is a conscious attempt by had a kind of spontaneous mirth, a vitality protagonist in "Take the Money &nd Run". "Bananas" followed, and it may be said that Allen to present the world as a random that was conspicuously apparent throughout Allen realizes that legends are made of this is comedian Allen's best film, for series of absurd coincidence in which the the film. Robin Hood, Jesse James, Bonnie and certainly it is his most blatantly hilarious. much maligned romantic individual must 
Clyde. In "Sleeper", the protagonist, Allen did not direct "Play It Again, Sam", operate. We seem to enjoy not a little 
But "Tiger Lily" was not a whole film, transposed into the future, must save but his portarayal of the character Allen watching our collectivized self on the screen cannot be considered totally Allenesque, himself and the girl he loves from evil­seems te reach its peak here. "Everything doing battle with an all-too confusingbecause he did not create the visuals. More doers, in the tradition of Buck Rodgers and You Always Wanted to Know... " came next, universe. And we laugh instead of cryimportantly, Allen himself did not appear on Flash Gordon. But success for the and owing to its episodic structure and the because apparently, we too are the the screen. In subseouent films, the character Allen is hard to come by, more fact that Allen himself did not appear in Allenesque romantic caught in the trap. 
.. 
6 the observer Monday, January 27, 1975 
Active at ND N''''''''"""'"""''"'"''"'''''"'''"'"'''''"'''""'"""'''""""'-'",''''"'''"'"'''"''''"''"''"'"''"'<1 
"!~~~~ ai.~~":~!"~~~~,..~~,~,~~ugh~~~~~ MICHIGAN STREET J 
"MECHA's primary goals are to been able to extend tutoring ser-semesters, MECHA members, ;:;: ::_:~~:~.: aid Chicano and Spanish-speaking vices to all who require it. To most of whom are from the South-;:;: students at Notre Dame and in remedy this situation however, west U.S., visit many local high ::;: 
ADULT THEATRES ;:;:

South Bend and to share Chicano MECHA has begun holding bi-schools and thereby stimulate :;:; ·:·: 
culture with other students here," lingual sessions for teachers in admissions by providing a more ;:;: :;::· 
~;i~i;:~~r ::::~.:::~:::: :~¥.~~;;;N;;.::~;:;.;; :7,:~:· ::~=~~:~:'"Chi:~:: I *
Movimiento Estudiants Chicano de school level, where there has been lifestyles, way of thinking, eating, :::: 
Aztlan or the Chicano Student M t f A tl ( f · t0
ovemen ° z an re ermg
the Aztec Empire) was founded at 
Notre Dame in 1970. MECHA is also a national 
· t' "th h t 
orgamza IOn, WI c ap ers on 
many college campuses across the 
u.S. although there is no national headquarters. 
Working with approximately thirty students, MECHA has ex­
tended its activities into many diverse directions, both here on the campus as well as into the South Bmd community, which has a large Chicano population.
The majority of members of MECHA are Chicanos, although there are also some Cubans and :Latin Americans who are not u.S. citizens, along with Spanish majors and anyone else wishing to join. 
Martha Vazquez, president of the ND chapter of Mecha since April 1974, said she was "en­thusiatic about the progress which the organization has made since its initiation here five years ago, particularly in helping Chicano students academicly." 
MECHA members are now working with the South Bend Board of Education to establish a bi-lingual education program, providing daily tutorial services to Chicano students in both the elementary grades and high school. These students are at a disadvantage in their classes due to the teacher-student languagebarrier. 
Due to the small number of MECHA tutors in comparison to the large number of Chicano students in need of additional 


Senior Ball surveystallied 
With the help of survey responses and preliminary research, a tentative date and location have been chosen for this year's Senior Ball. 
The Senior Ball Committee received approximately 200 responses this week, with March 15 being the most popular date noted. 
Concerning location, the replies came out almost even between the Chicago and South Bend areas. After considering economic fac­tors, transportation and size variables, the Committee decided Sunday to concentrate on the South Bend area. 
According to Chairman Joe Henderlong, "This location should provide the opportunity for a greater number of seniors to at­tend, and should be somewhat easier on the financial side." 
The Committee will now begin narrowing down the location, researching several clubs, hotels and halls within a 30 mile radius of South Bend. As for transportation, an overwhelming number of seniors favored cars rather than buses. 
Florist and tuxedo service will be optional for those attending. 
By se'Jecting the March 15 date, the Committee tried to avoid with conflicts with other winter for­mals. The Lyons Hall formal is scheduled for February 14 and the SMC Junior Prom will take place on l''ebruary 22. March 8 is the date of the SMC Sophomore Formal. 
Some seniors suggested a later date in April or May, but this would conflict with other senicr events planned for later in the emester. The Senior Class is plannning to sponsor a Dunes trip sometime in April and a variety of Senior Week activities are scheduled for early May. 
To help defray the cost of the bids, the Senior Club will be 
sponsoring tWO special nights a high Chicano dropout rate,"
Vazquez said. "We have also been working
with Chicano parents to help them keep their children in school,"
explained Vazquez. "This is 
particularly important to the greatnumber of children of migrantfarm workers, who are forced to leave school when new field jobs 
call their parents elsewhere." 
The already large Chicano population of South Bend has in­creased this season due to the influx C'f migrant farm workers from the Southwest areas of the U.S., who were unable to find fiP.ld jobs because of the weakened economy. MECHA helped provide winter clothing for these people,and many professors' families have contributed toys for the children. 
On campus, MECHA works with Freshman Year of Studies to provide tutoring services to Chicano and other Spanish-speaking students having academic difficulties. MECHA encourages these first year students to concentrate on academics before becoming ac­tively involved in the organization. 
Working in close conjunction with the orientation of new Chicano students, the members last year sent out approximately sixty to eighty letters to new students having Spanish surnames to acquaint them with their organization and welcome them to the university. The members help orientate foreign students from Latin America. 
During the summer months and and even entertaining are very ::;:

much different. By sharing our:;::
cultural differences with the rest of ::;::
··· 

the student body, we hope to :;:: stfimulate !at better dundherstbanding ::;: 
* 

o our cu ure, an t ere y en-:::::
courage the development of a more ::;::unified community here at Notre :_::.:. Dame., :::: .·.· Last semester MECHA brought t 
in a number of speakers to Notre :;:; 
* 

Dame in hopes of stimulating:;:: interest in the student body in:;:: contemporary problems con-:;:: fronting the Chicano population. ;:;: 
... Amongthesewascivilrightleader;:;: 1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET ;:;
Goodstein who lectured on Chicano:;:; ;:; civil rights. Caesar Chavez was::~: ·:· also scheduled to speak here, but:;:: ;:;~ad to cancel the lecture due tot CALl 2 8 2-1 2 Q6 FOR INFORMATI 0 Nlll tllness. :::: .·. 
"Cultural activities are also an:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::·:::::':·:::::::·:·:':':':':':·:':::::::::::;:::':':':':::':':':-:/.·
important part of MECHA's program," Vazquez pointed out. Last semester a professional Chicano guerilla theatre group called El Teatro Triangulo per­formed here, acquainting students with the manner and techniques of Chicano theatre production. And in March, Robert Cruz, a professional in the field of hi­lingual education, is scheduled to speak. 
·•we are currently trying to gain support for the United Farm Workers by compiling a pamphlet to be distributed to the students," said Vazquez. "We are doing a great deal of research to gather factual information for this pamphlet, and much help has been provided for in this area by the Campus Ministry, one of whose programs is concerned with migrant workers." 
cerning prices for the Ball, the Committee cannot reach any final estimate until the place and specific events have been decided and individual costs totalled. 
The Committee will focus their work this week on researching and pricing various facilities, bands, favors and other facets of the 
event. Theme ideas are also being considered. More specific details should be released late this week. 
Henderlong commented on the survey response by stating, "The Committee appreciates the senior response and suggestions which turned out to be very constructive and helpful" 

Seniors are encouraged to refer theme suggestions, favor ideas or other specific comments to the Committee members listed below; Ginny Gibbs, tickets and place settings, <284-4153); Ed Roberts, favors, (616-699-7435); Rita Murphy, meals, (284-4151); Phil Potter, florists, (8202); Marlene Zloza, communications, (6932); Vicki Allen, (7991); Joe LaFlare, <288-7565); Assistant Chairman, Bob Spann, music, (233-6247); Chairman Joe Henderlong, (234­1673). 
within the next few weeks. Con-~-----------.::::::::::::::::::::========:..a 

You can study the American Arts in England this summer! 
Your Bicentennial summer at the L'niversity of Evansville Harlax­ton Study Centre in England will be the learning adventure of your life. Study the Arts in America 200 years later . . art, creative writing, dance, drama and music. Earn 9 college credits from June 15 to July 15. Completecostforroom, board and tuition is $1,000, plus air fare, including a $100 deposit. Your application deadline is April 1. Enrollment is limited, so return the coupon today for complete details. No obligation. 
Yes! I want to know more about my BlcentenniaJ Summer at the 
PHONE lAC)_ 
I will be a college FR SOPH JR SR l please circle onel 
TO: Director of Admla&lons 
Dept: 43 
Unl\lerslty of Evansville 
P.O. Box 329 
Evonovllle. Ind. 4 7702 
liPUniversity
U~ of Evansville 
An independent. church-related. coeducational Uniuers.ty 
·__...=~_2 FILMS .:::_::_
=i_l_....__....
=···· 
· · 8()()KSTQR E } ·:: ::: ·:·
:::: 
;:~ 
:;: 
lIvE F l Q Q R s H QW :·::;::;:;:; ;:;
~-·;_:~. 


NICKlE'S 
BURGER & BEER SPECIAL 

AIONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY 
112 POUND HAMBURGER AND A 12 OUNCE BEER FOR ONLY $1.00 

.. 
Monday, January 27, 1975 
the observer 
7 

President would replace commissioner 
SMC assemblyrestructures governing board 
Saint Mary's Student Assembly passed a proposal last night to restructure the Student Board of Governance. As a result of this restructuring, a president will replace the present office of legislative commissioner. 
This action also creates the posts of vice president for student affairs and of vice president for academic affairs. The vice president of student affairs will appoint a hall life commissioner -a position previously held by election. 
The proposal will go to the Student Affairs Committee on Tuesday and from there to the Student Affairs Council. 
In her proposal, Legislative Commissioner Joanne Garrett pointed out the disadvantages of the present system and the ad­vantages of the proposed system: "There is not one office with the power to make an ultimate decision, nor is there an office with the power to make an ultimate decision, nor is there an office that has the power to oversee the ac­tivities of other offices. 
"It is too idealistic to assume that each elected officer will automatically realize all duties 
Flanner stirs controversy over recent expulsions 
(continued from page 1) 
"In one or two cases· they <the hall staff) might have been able to make a case," McGuire said, "but not all." 
Tom Castello, director of the Flanner Judicial Board, also defended the conduct of the students. 
"They weren't angels, but under Mulcahy's rule a lot of people could have been thrown out of the hall," Castello said. 
It was questionable whether Mulcahy actually did have a potential case against the students for Mulcahy still had the technical power to force the students to leave the hall. 
Rectors Can Expel 
According to McGinty, the rector has the right to remove a student from his hall for any reason. This power derives from University Rules and Regulations in the "Room Changes" clause. 
The regulation reads: "The University reserves the right, as stated in the Housing contract, to make changes in room assign­ments when deemed possible." 
McGinty argued that technically the students did not have to leave the University if Mulcahy used this power. They would merely have to move to another residence hall, provided the rector of the hall approved the change. 
Thus Mulcahy as hall rector had the power to force the students to move out of the hall. And Mulcahy, as Director of On-campus Housing, had the power to approve room changes. 
Dual Role Criticized 
McGinty criticized Mulcahy's 
dual role as rector and ad­
ministrator. "I don't think rectors 
should be double-duty," he said. 
Instead of using this ad-force the students to leave the hall, Mulcahy threatened the stukents with University action. 
"He had them for University violations," McGinty explained. "He gave them a choice: instead of going to the J-Board or Macheca, why don't you move off­campus." 
Despite Mulcahy's actions in this case, McGinty contends that the seven students were not denied due process according to University judicial procedures. Since they were not formally charged with either a University or hall offense, neither university wide procedures <the Dean of Students and the Judicial Board) nor hall judicial board had jurisdiction. 
Technically, the students could appeal their case to the Dean of Students. No appeal has yet been made. 
McGinty stated that he is willing to take this and similar cases to the Administration. 
"Student Government is very willing to help people fight this," he said. "But you've got to have a case." 
The seven students are now living in the Campus View apart­ments. 
"We have no gripes wit Notre Dame, no gripes with Flanner Hall, but with the way things were run in the hall," Roether said. "As far as I'm concerned, I'm a lot happier off campus." 

and responsibilities. It is also too idealistic to assume that every person that runs for office is dedicated to the performance of those duties." 
Garrett argued that "it has become apparent that there is the need for an office that has the power to assure the performance of duties. This office would carry with it the power to make an ultimate decision when the Board of Governance is divided on an issue." 
Two years ago the offices of president and vice president were eliminated in favor of the present four-commissioner system since, according to Garrett, "there was too much work for just two people to do." 
However, under the proposed 
system two vice presidents will 
ease the burden formerly put on 
one vice president. 
The proposed system will also 
elevate and expand the position of 
academic affairs. "Academic 
affairs will be able to apread out 
more and do things that should be 
done such as forming committees 
on tenure, GRE's and senior 
comprehensives," said Garrett. 
According to Garrett's proposal, 
the duties of the president would 
include chairing the Board of 
Governance and Student Assembly 
meetings, responsibility for the 
follow-up of proposal and 
recommendations, and service on the Student Affairs Council and the Academic Affairs Council. 
ummnvhhs 
Among the duties of the vice president of student affairs would be supervision of all activities pertaining to student life in the residence halls and the students' non-academic life, and service on the Student Assembly and Student Affairs Council. 
The duties of the vice-preesident of academic affairs would include supervision of all activities per-. taining to the students' academic life and concerns, and service on the Student Assembly and Academic Affairs Council. 
The Student Assembly also approved the proposal of Mary Lou Bilek that a junior representative be accepted as a member of the Board of Regents, in additon to the senior representative. She would serve a two-year term andcouldbe subject to evaluation by the Board at the end of her first year. 
This measure will also go to the Student Affairs Committee. 
Garrett also announced that 
representatives on the Student 
Assembly who were consistently 
absent or tardy should appear at 
the meetings or resign. 
In addition, the Student 
Assembly voted to donate $500 to 
Brenda Lardy, hall director of 
LeMans, to help alleviate hospital 
costs following the peath of her 
husband this month. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Married couple or male graduate students to act as houseparents for teenage boys in Mishawaka childrens institution. Housing and meals provided. Good salary and fringe benefits. 259-5666 Monday through Friday, 9-5. 
FOR SALE 

1974 Porsche, 1.8 liter, 15000 miles. Excellent condition. For further info, cal1 288-7068 after 5. 
NOTICES 

SIGN-UPS FOR SPRING BREAK TRIP TO MONTEGO BAY DAILY AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OF-FICE. SPONSORED BY ST. JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY. 
Overseas Jobs. Australia, Europe, 
S. America, Africa. Students, all professions and occupations. $700· $3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing. Free in­formation: TRANSWORLD RESEARCH CO., Dept. F3, P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA, 94925. 
TICKETS FOR THE RARE EARTH-PURE FUNK CONCERT AT MORRIS CIVIC TOMORROW NIGHT ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE. 
S-track tapes: don't throw them out when they break. I'll buy or repair them for $1. Joe, 3526. 
TICKETS FOR THE JAN31 AND FEB 1 PERFORMANCES OF OH COWARD! STARRING 
PATRICIA  MORRISON  ARE  
NOW  ON  SALE  AT  THE  
STUDENT  UNION  TICKET  
OFFICE.  

Money? Morrissey Loan will lend up to $150 for 30 days, 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune, daily, 11:15 to 12:15. 
Responsible students desire to rent motorhome for 10 days (March 21· 
30) for trip to Florida. Will pay well. Call Trace at 234-1889. 
HASH BROWN BLUES BAND NOW AVAILABLE FOR YOUR DANCE, FORMAL, OR PARTY. CALL 272-9895 (EVENINGS! FOR INFORMATION. 
Car problem? Come to Hoffman Bros., Eddy at Madison. Wholesale prices to N D-SMC students, faculty, and staff do-it.yourselfers. Repair service also available. Since 1929. 234-0191. 
Will teach beginning guitar in my home. 288-5506 after 7 p.m. 
Anyone interested in flying to Los Angeles over Easter break for around $150 please call 289-2757. 
Join our North East Day Care parent cooperative. $15 per month plus 4 hours parent participation per week. 9-5, 233-2233. 
Ask someone you like to Badin's formal. Jan 31. Tickets, $6.00 a couple. For· info call 6914 
Remember: "Every major University in our nation offers a course in social ballroom dancing." Dances taught are: fox trot. waltz, rock 'n' roll, rhumba, cha-cha. It's the fashionable way to qo. So join our student group classes every Monday evening, 7-9, La Fortune Ba II room. $2 each class. Walk in alone-group-date. Alway a beginner lesson 7-8. Change partners all evening. Be with us Monday. You are always welcome. Great way to meet friends and learn to cance all well. Fran DeMarco, Dance In­structress 
FOR RENT 
3 room apt for rent, $90 month. Call 288-9533 or 232-8392. 
Attention off-campus renters: 3 
B R  house,  new  carpet,  
redecoration.  Can  take  3  or  4.  
Available  for  balance  or  this  
semester  and  summer.  287-7818.  

LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: key ring Sat. in SMC tunnel or Regina basement. Reward. Call Mary, 4537. 
Lost: Kingspoint SC-40 calculator. Vicinity Nieuwland Science Hall. Reward. Call Mike, 7758. 
Hitchhiker lost 1 ski mitten in car 
Tues.  nite,  1~21-75.  Architecture  
student  or  people  in  Mustang  
please call 232-9747.  

Lost: one sterling silver and turquoise earring. If found call 1328. 
Found: 1 tan, small size corduroy fleece-lined coat. Contact lost and fOUI'ld in Library. 
PERSONALS 
Higgs & Bobber: Congrats on your engagement. from all of us 
Today is Renee's birthday and she is in love. Call 1346. 
Lonely girl in France desires 
birthday cards on her upcoming 
birthday, Feb. 15 (or 14?1. Send to 
"Meringue" at NO's Angers ad. dress. Promises answers. 

... 
8 the observer Monday, January 27, 1975 
Irish tough at home, upset UCLA 
Dantley's 32, Paterno's 16 pace Notre Dame to third Bruin upset in live years, 84-78 
.. 
by Greg Corgan Sports Editor 
At halftime of Saturday's game against UCLA Student Body President Pat McLaughlin was introducing Ara Parseghian and his wife Katie to the capacity crowd in the basketball arena. During the course of his remarks he made reference to the fact that, ''at Notre Dame, not only are we good winners when we win, but good losers when we lose." 
In typical Notre Dame fashion, a voice from the student section protested. "We never lose!" 
If that boisterous spectator had just addPd the words "at home," .John Wooden might have been the first one to second the motion. For the third time in five years, Wooden has brought a highly-rated UCLA team to South Bend only to be upset. In 1971 he lost 89-82, last yl'ar he lost 71-70, and Saturday, he lost again. this time 84-78. 
"When I was a player at Purdue I played at Notre Dame and have coached here many times," said Wooden after the game. "When I played at Notre Dame I had to fight for my life just as we do when I come here as a coach." 
However, the "Wizard of Westwood" was gracious in defeat. 
"If I don't seem too upset about losing it's because I'm not," he said. "Wt• just got whipped today, like we did against Stanford last week. There are teams that can beat us, !Jut they'll never have an pasy time doing it." 
The Irish didn't. but superb performances by Adrian Dantley, Ray Martin and Bill Paterno coupled ·Nith what turned out to be excellent coaching strategy by Digger Phelps made it not quite so hard. 
Dantley had 32 points, Paterno had 16 and ten rebounds while Martin had ten points including an acrobatic 10 ft. jumper late in the first half which gave the Irish a 44­40 lead. But in the second half, it was Digger who made the key move. 
With 6:06left to play, and Notre !>arne in front 74-73, Phelps went to what he calls his "four corner offense," a renamed version of the stall. The only difference seems to be that the four corners offense will, on occasion, open up the lane through which Dantley can drive to the basket. 
At first it seemed Phelps' tactics might backfire. Martin was called for not moving the ball within the allotted five seconds and there was a jump ball at center court. The Irish controlled the tip, however, and from there on in Digger's "four corners" worked to per­fection. Dantley got the open lane he was looking for and drove infor a layup with 5: 18 left to play, giving ND a three point 76-73lead. UCLA's Rich Washington quickly countered however, and his layup narrowed the gap to 76-7~. 



Wooden press simply didn't work. 
"I was a little surprised our press didn't work," said Wooden. Somebody asked him why not. "Because they broke it," he smiled. 
"We changed our press offense," explained Phelps. "We changed to new alignments and splits which UCLA hadn't seen before. Our· press execution was excellent. 
"Against them, we kept changing defenses. I thought our zone worked we\\ until Meyers started hitting. We tried not to run with them." 
Dantley's 32 points equalled his nation-leading scoring average and brought praise from Wooden . "Adrian Dantley is very good, very good," said Wooden. "All the superlatives you the press write about him he deserves. 
"It would be difficult to name an individual that was more difficult to defense, but my philosophy has always been not to concentrate on stopping one individual but to stop the team. We fully expect a player to get hgis average against us. I'm more concerned with Martin's 10 points (Dice averages

ADRIAN DANTLEY scores two of his 32 points on this play. A. D.drives down the lane and lays the 
1.9 p.p.g.l than Dantley's 32." 
ball up and in. 
Phelps figured the difference 

Notre Dame then "wasted" 1:22 momentum at that point and we forth until Peter Crotty hit a layup was something eles. "We only had broke didn't feel we could run up and Martin his 13
until Paterno free un­and made amazing turnovers and that's excellent 
derneath and an down the court tradiig baskets with close-eyed Washington
scored un­effort. for us," said Digger. "We couldn't 
them."
molested layup with 3: 2lleft in the slipped in a layup underneath and afford 20." game. The Bruins called timeout The Irish had managed to do the Irish went into their first half The Irish may not have been able 
and tried to get organized, but a just that in the first half. The lead four corners offense. But Pete to afford a loss either. Notremissed shot later the Irish were changed hands or the game was Trgovich managed to get a layup 
Dame's NCAA tournament

again in control and with 2:22 left tied no less that 25 times in the knotting the score at 44 until chances now look a little brighter
to play Paterno made it 80-75 as initial period. Notre Dame's Paterno gave the Irish a 46-44 and as Phelps always em­
Washington was called for biggest deficit was seven points, halftime lead on a 15 ft. jumper at phasizes, "that's our goal every
goaltending. 13-6, with 4:58gone in the first half. the buzzer. 
year. to get an NCAA bid."

The Uclans came back when The Irish tied things up for the The Bruins just couldn't seem to 
Dave Meyers, who had been 0 for 9 first time with 9:57 to go in the get going; Myers had only one The Irish are now 9-6 and face 
on field goal attempts in the first period and went ahead 23-21 22 point in the first half and UCLA Western Michigan in Kalamazoo 
half, scored his 16th point on a 15ft. seconds later on a ten foot jumper shot only 44 per cent at the free Tuesday while the Bruins are 14-2. 
jumper. closing the gap to 80-77. by Toby Knight. throw line for the entire game. On They face Pac-8 rival Southern Cal 
this Saturday.

Notre Dame took the ball out ,and The lead see-sawed back and top of that, the highly-regarded imm<>diately stalled. The clock ticked down to 0:20 before Dwight Clay cut sharply to his left and fell 
leers win Saturday, gain
down. Casey Corliss, who had just mtered the game for UCLA, grabbed the loose ball and drove for the Bruin basket but was called 

split with Fighting Sioux 
for traveling. Corliss then fouled Paterno on by Bob Kissel d1sk and swatted the puck past a Pat conroy, Terry Fairholm ,the inbounds play and the 

surprised Peterson at 13:05. and Mark Olive combined for a 
sophomore forward hit both ends Lefty Smith summed up the Notre Dame's Brian Walsh score at 8:20 of the closing period. 
of a one-and-one giving the Irish an team's feeling Saturday night after finally got that goal back at 19:55, Fairholm and Conroy,
112-77 lead with 13 seconds in the a split with the North Dakota (o avert a shutout at the hands of forechecking hard, dug the puck 
ball game. Fighting Sioux. the Fighting Sioux. Walsh pulled off the sideboards and passed out Dantley then fouled Marques "It sure hurts not to sweep a the string with the wrist shot, with to Olive at the blueline. Olive faked Johnson who made his first free team like North Dakota, but one the assists going to Pat Conroy and a shot, passed back to his center throw. Myers grabbed the missed win is better than none." Alex Pirus. Conroy, and Conroy wristed the second attempt, but blew a short­The Irish icers ran into some Saturday night Notre Dame used puck past Waselovich for the 3-1 ranged jumper. Paterno came close checking and outstanding to an advantage their greater lead. 
goaltending by Sioux netminder speed and strength, forcing the Alex Pirus showed the 3002 fansdown with the rebound at 0:05 and Pete Waselovich Friday night in play around the North Dakota net. that collegiate hockey does use thewas fouled by Johnson. The clock dropping a close 2-1 con­The Irish, as has been much the backhand shot on occasion. On theran out after Billy had added two 
more at gift line giving test.Saturday ND waited until the previous case, got on the man advantqge score, Brian Walsh 
the the 

final period to get on track and scoreboard first on a sparkling and Jack Brownschidle, on theIrish the 84-78 win. 
skated away with the 5-2 victory. individual effort at center ice by points, exchanged passes and"We turned to the four corner Only 60 seconds into Friday's Brian Walsh. Walsh skated the worked the puck into Pirus,offense at that point in the second loss, the Irish looked like they puck, on the power play situation, waiting in the slot. Pirus put thehalf because we weren't doing wanted to put the game away the entire length of-the ice. He backhand in from 15 feet at 11:47,
anything from our normal of­early. Brian Walsh was alone on threw a perfect centering pass to giving ND a 4-1 edge.
fensive alignments," said Phelps. the left side of the net with the Allen Karsnia, waiting at the North North Dakota made a shortlived puck. Walsh casually flipped the Dakota doorstep. Goalie Len attempt at a comeback when Dave
"We weren't getting offensive puck into the net for the apparent Moher was credited with an assist Geving scored at 16:51. The fresh­1-o lead. on the 10:33 goal, continuing his man, out of Bloomington, Min­

Unfortunately only the goal torrid scoring pace. nesota, uncorked a slapshot which judge and the referee did not see The Fighting Sioux evened the hit Moher high in the chest and the the puck go in and come out, much game at one apiece just under puck dribbled in, cutting the Irish 
to the disbelief of the 3,024 fans in three minutes later. Again the goal margin to two. the ACC ice arena. was a direct result of poor Pirus scored again for the Irish, 
Notre Dame continued the execution in controlling the puck this time conbining with center pressure deepin the Sioux zone, but and then breaking out. Larry Brian Walsh for the goal. Walsh could not get off the good shots. It Drader scored at 13:28 for the 1-1 again skated the puck the length of was the relentless North Dakota score. the ice and hit Pirus flying down backchecking which kept the Irish Jack Brownschilde showed his the right side. Pirus' quick wrister from many shots on goal. Dakota own brand of fireworks on an just managed to get past goaltender Waselovich made but unassisted goal at 6:09. With Waselovich at the 19:13 mark of four saves in the opening period . Dakota's Dave Geving out for a the game's final period. 
Notre Dame's goalie John holding infraction, Brownschidle "North Dakota with their good, Peterson was extremely busy, took the puck behind his own net hard skating coming back really making 17 saves in the first period and skated through his own zone, made our goals hard to come by," alone. It was Peterson who denied the nuetral zone, and into the Sioux commented Lefty Smith. "We got numerous Sioux chances, due to zone. About 18 feet out, the soph good net play in each game from ND defensive lapses clearing the from New York let a quick wrist Len (Moher) and John (Peterson), puck and breaking out. shot go, beating Waselovich which really kept us in both 
medium high to the glove side. games."
North Dakota tallied the first 

North Dakota almost got an Next weekend the Irish icersofficial score of the game on a equalizer of their own near the ten hope to improve on their seventhshorthanded marker by Don minute mark while Dan Byers was place 8-13-1 record, but they'll have 
Swartz at 9:14. Rick Clubbe stole a in the penaly box for tripping. to do it on the road against the pass along the blueline and Daryl Drader took a slapshot from Denver Pioneers , currently in
was 

able to tip it ahead to Swartz, who the blueline which went off the eighth place. The Notre Dameslid it past Peterson. post. For a few very long seconds hockey team will be home againJoe Kompon outskated the ND the puck stood still, but three in­February 7 and 8 for an always
defense to catch up with a rolling ches from the goal mouth. Finally physical series against the number 
puck to set up the winning score in ND goalie Len Moher fell on ranked State
the one Michiganthe final period. Kompon beat 

puck amidst sprawled bodies from Spartans. 
everyone back to the skittering both teams. 

