
MORRISTOWN, N.J. <AP> ­A Superior Court judge ruled Monday that Kar..m Anne Quin­lan must be kept alive with a mechanical life-support system because "there is no con­stitutional right to die." 
Judge Hobert Muir Jr. said the decision on whether to turn off the respirator that has kept the 21-vear-old woman alive 

Sherlockian cult 
by Pete Arndt Staff Reporter 
Does Sherlock Holmes really exist? Is this man with the narrow face. thin nose, and piercing eyes who used to occupy 221 Baker St. still around working at his last occupation, keeping bees in the English countryside? 
,John Bennet Shaw, an N.D. graduate of the class of 1938, last night in Washington Hall gave his audience of 100 an intimate and revealing look into one of the most interesting legends of our times, Sherlock Holmes. 
Shaw. a scholar on the subject of the super sleuth, talked for over an hour concerning Holmes and the activities of the many clubs which center around the fictitious detective. 
A subject which has intrigued many devotees of Mr. Holmes is the question of whether or not he was a drug addict, Shaw said. llolmes regularly took a mixture of water with seven percent eocaine as a relaxant. This was not uncommon in Holmes time, said Shaw, and addiction was not possible from so small an amount. Yet, the debate stll carries on in Holmes clubs across the 
nation. 
Besides going through Holmes' genealogy, Shaw said the 
material covers almost every subject possible concerning him: 
Holmes and wine, Holmes and food, Holmes and women and an 
unsavory subject among the organizations, Holmes and sex. 
Shaw discussed the many pamphlets, articles, papers and books printed concerning Holmes' cases, idiosyncracies and ideas which float through the many orgamzations formed throughout the country to try to keep alive the legend of Holmes. 
Shaw personally owns over 35,000 books on Holmes and over 
10,000 Sherlock Holmes artifacts, including a tie with Holmes' 
famous symbol of a deer stalker's hat emblazoned on it. 
He wore a pin with the number 221 on his left lapel, and his cufflinks were buttons from an officer's coat of Mr. Watson's old military regiment. 
Shaw has helped form many of these organizations and is an active member of an exclusive club he helped form in New York, ''The Baker Street Irregulars."This all-male club meets regularly to discuss, among other things, the "canon" of the Holmes cult: the 56 short stories and 4 novels written about the adventures of Holmes. The club, of which Franklin Roosevelt was a member, hold their meetings at symbolic places. 
At one meeting place, a restaurant, the patrons had to walk 
seventeen steps to get to the door, the same number of steps to 
Holmes' door on Baker St. 
An activity at tht:se meetings is to quiz the other members of the 
club by stating a passage from a Holmes story and requiring the member to state the context and the title of the story in which the quote appears. The loser buys a round of drinks for the club, which 
numbers over one-hundred. 
The cult of followers does not rely totally on Sherlock Holmes for 
their duscussion topics. They take time to discuss Holmes' partner, 
Mr. Watson, and his chief adversary, Mr. Moriarty. 
The Holmes legend has a great following, according to Mr. Shaw. 
He stated that the legend is still strong. "Even today," Shaw said, 
"leUers are received on the average of 10 a week at 221 Baker 
Street, addressed to Mr. Sherlock Holmes." 
since she lapsed into a coma nearly seven months ago must be left up to her doctors, not the courts or the church or her parents. 
Joseph Quinlan had made an emotional appeal during a five­day hearing before Muir that his daughter be allowed to "die with dignity." 
But Muir ruled in his 44-page opinion that "the nature, extent msh and inner conflict over his Miss Quinlan alive in the in· 
and duration of care is the re­daughter's treatment, Muir tensive care unit of St. Clare's sponsibility of the physician. said Quinlan should not be per­Hospital in Denville since she What justification is there to mitted to participate in the lapsed into a coma from an remove it from the control of "day-by-day decisions of <her) undetermined caus~. the medical profession and future care and treatment." Doctors have said the 
place it in the hands of the He appointed Quinlan as coma may have resulted from courts?" guardian of his daughter's a combination of alcohol and 
He said physicians are bound property but continued the ap­tranquilizers. to prolong life as long as they pointment of attorney Daniel R. They said Mls's Quinlan suf­can. Coburn as the young woman's 
fers irreversible brain damage
"There is a duty to continue personal guardian to make de­and there is no chance for her
I he life-assisting apparatus if cisions in medical matters. Co­ever to live normal life again.
awithin the treating physician's burn is a local attorney who Quinlan, 50, and his wife,opinion it should be done," the was not previously acquainted Julia, say their daughter wouldjudge said. with the Quinlan family. 
not want to be kept alive withMuir said Quinlan "im-After Muir's decision was an­no hope of recovery and thatpressed me as a very sincere, nounced, Quinlan attorney Paul she would choose "death with
moral, ethical and religious Armstrong told reporters that dignity" if she able to
wereperson" and that the father "is the family had not decided think or speak. 
very obviously anguished over whether to appeal the ruling. Testimony during hearings onhis decision to terminate what He added that a decision would 
the case disclosed that it ishe considers the extraordinary be made "within a few days." 
common medical practice to care of his daughter." 
fail to implement extraordinary
Quinlan said he was "sur­
Quinlan reciprocated. He told means to keep a patient alive,
prised, in a way," by the 
a news conference after the judge's ruling and that he and but it is considered un'accep· judge's verdict that he thought table to discontinue such means
his wife "were braced but\ were 
Muir "showed courage in say­once they have been started.
praying for it to go the other 
ing the matter belonged with way." State Atty. Gen. William F'. the physicians and the family. Hyland joined the case to argue
Quinlan's request for per­
But we had been praying for the state's responsibility to
mission to unhook his daugh­
him to show even more courage safeguard "the sanctity of
ter's respirator was unprece­
-to go all the way." life." He said disconnecting
dented. He asked the court to
Mrs. Quinlan said the legal Miss Quinlan's respirator would
name him personal guardian
proceedings were "something amount to homicide because
for the express purpose of or­
we felt we must do morally. We with the equipment she is legal­
dering the respirator dis­
had already done everything connected. ly and medically alive. medically and spiritually. So The ~uinlans, who describe
Courts generally are asked to 
we had to take it to the acquit remove life­themselves devout Roman
people who as 
courts." Catholics, were supported by
support systems after a 
the Church in their effort. Their
Doctors have said Miss Quin­patient's death, but this was 
lan would die within a week if the first time prior court ap­priest testified during the hear­her respirator were dis­proval was requested. ing that the Church does not re­and me­quire that life be sustained by
connected. A respirator other 
Because of the father's ang-extraordinary means in hope­
chanical devices have kept 
less cases. 
At Notre Dame 
Views of Navy ROTC clash 
by Bob Mader instructor. Also, if you have a one said. "You're afraid to talk to Campus Editor command position, that takes the officers." time. But you can go through with Senior William Bracken 
First in a series 
the bare minimum and have no described the relationship between problems at all." the upperclassmen and the officers Notre Dame's Naval Reserve Students disagreed on the as ''cordial." He remarked thatOfficer Training Corps is either relationship of the instructors and the seniors and the junior officersdoing a great job or a lousy job the students. A few students said occasionally go out for a beerdepending upon who you talk to. 
the instructors were abusing the together and that the unit com­The Commander of Naval mander, Captain King Pfeiffer and Education and Training rated the his assistant, Commander Robert
*
Observer
Notre Dame NROTC unit as one of Gennette, are businesslike and
Insight
the best in the country last year, friendly.
according to midshipman com­
On the other hand, one
mander Gregory Melnyk. discipline procedure known as the sophomore stated, "Some of theHowever, one senior NROTC "chit system." Chits, both officers think they're God's special student charged that the program meritorious and deficiency, apply gift to the Navy."
doesn't teach the officer can­to uniforms, neat haircuts, and Michael O'Driscoll, who left thedidates to deal with people. "The showing up at meetings among program because he hopes to go to program here teaches you how to other things. The chits go on the graduate school, said, "Lieutenantdeal with your equals," he said. student's permanent record. 
Schaefer <sophomore instructor l"But once you're on a ship, you The students said the officers has chased some people out of the may have to work with a seaman should be giving verbal warnings program. He's the bull dog type. Irecruit who's only been in the Navy rather than chits. "You go to a guy must respect him as a Naval of­for six months and a chief petty for advice and he gives vou a chit," 
ued on
officer who's been in 25 years. 
Course of Study 
The class work in the first two 
years concentrates on engineering, 
science and sociology. Freshmen 
study ship design and propulsion 
and related topics. The Maritime 
Affairs course is a seminar con­
cerned with Soviet-American 
affairs, policies, and military 
sociology. 
The classes during the last two 
years are more concerned with 
specific skills of a Naval officer. 
The topics range from navigation 
to Naval operations and 
management skills. 
One ~tudent who dropped out said, "There's too much time out­
./
side of class demanded than the ,....,-~,... ~ ... 
program was designed for. You Dame ROTC of the States 
have to put in a lot more than the Marines held a birthday celebration yesterday In honor of 200 years of 
three hours you get credit for." service. Notre Dame familiars Ted (Moose) Krause, John (Colonel) 
Melnyk stated "Sophomore year Stephens and Ted (Father) Hesburgh were but a few of the guests In 
there's a heavy load due to the attendance. (Photo by Chris Smith) 

-----~ -~­

~:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=::::::::::::::-.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;::--:o::m::::::-.::-:::::::::::m--:~:!:?.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!!:::::::::::::::;:~:~:~:~:~:::~:::~:~:~:~:::~:~:~:~:~:~:~:::~:~:~:~ 

the observer 
warld briefs 
DETROIT AP-The son of missing ex-Teamsters boss James R. 
Hoffa has been named to a $400-a-week executive position with 
Teamsters Local 299. 
James P. Hoffa was named the post after delegates to a Local 299 seminar gave him a standing vote. 
The younger Hoffa's father rose to prominence in the Teamsters Union after serving as president of Local 299. He disappeared July 30. 
LONDON AP -Syren Arutunian, a Soviet dancerwho failedto board his flight back to Moscow, has applied to stay in Britain, the Home Office reported Monday. 
Artutunian, 25, was a member of an Armenian dance troupe that gave two folk dancing performances in London last week. 
an campus taday 
3:30 p.m.-­4:00p.m.-­4:15 p.m.-­4:30 p.m.-­7:00 p.m.-­7:3 l p.m.-­
8:00 p.m.-­
8& 10 p.m.--film, "all quiet on the western front," eng. aud., tickets $1 
8:15 p.m.--concert, ray still woodwind ensemble, lib. aud., tickets $1. 
Meeting tonight 
Sociology revises major 
A meeting for all Sociology majors and all students interested in the Sociology major will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 104 of 0 'Shaughnessy. 
The Sociology Department has a newly revised major with six specific concentrations leading to jobs and post-graduate study. 
The Preprofessional and Sociology Program is oriented to those students in pre-med., pre­dentistry, and those looking for hospital administration and nursing positions. The Pre-law, Government, and Politics Program is designed to suit those Law School-bound students. 
A third Sociology Program has been developed to accompany studies in social work and teaching certification programs at Saint Mary's. 
The Sociology and Business Career Program is geared to the student looking toward job op­portunities in management, personnel and industrial relations. 
A fifth area, Sociology and Graduate Programs in Business, Sociology and Psychology, is 
I
~ 
I· 
~ 
~:~ 
I 
.;: Those Famous ~: Co11eo-e Paintings
b 
...a List of 1500 to 
NOTRE DAME & SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE MIRROR NOW ON DISPLAY AT 

~ 
computer course, "spss--a statistics package for social science and others.'' rm 115 computing center 
seminar, "niobium and zirconium reagents for organic synthesis.'' rm 123 nieuwland 
lecture, speaker It. gov. of ind. robert orr, rm 221 hayes 
healy aud. lecture, "observations on bacteriophage ecology," rm. 278 galvin aud. 
lecture, "sex: a moral question," by charles sheedy, lewis hall basement 
lecture. "illusions delusion and some revolutions in business morality.'' carroll hall 
fashion, ebony fashion fair, o'laughlin aud., admission $9 
intended to organize the curriculum of a student interested in MBA programs, professional Sociology and special occupational training programs such as urban planning. 
A final area is set aside for those with undecided goals and special help is made available to weigh alternatives. 
In each program a specific faculty member is designated as an advisor and will offer individual coordination of course selection, both within and outside of the departmental program. 
BOOK BARN 
is the 
BOOK SHOP 
for 
BOOK LOVERS 
Old and new books 

Open Mon-Frl untn 9:00 Sundays noon untn 6:00 
Night Editor-· Maureen Flynn Assistant Night Editor --AI 
Rutherford Layout Staff --Jim Commyn, Terry Keeney Day Editor --Mary Reher, 
Ken Girouard Copy Reader --Don Reimer 
Editorials --Ken Girouard Sporh. --Ernie Torriero Typists--Mary Tobin, Camille Arrieh, Karen Hinks, Neil VIII Compugraphic Morey 
Blinder 
Night Controller --Dave Rust 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during exams and vacation periods The Observer 1S published by the students of the Univ of Notre D"ame and 51 Mary•s College Subscr~pl•ons may be purchased 
Turn North 2 blocks east of the light at Cleveland and Juniper (Emmons Rd.) Phone 272-5520 
WINTER SPECIALS DISC 0
B 
RILl 
E DRUM
$599 
EPremi::~~~~Eb~:ke 

linings (4 wheels), lurn drums, rebuild wheel 
\~ cylinders. arc lining for . perfect drum contact. full 1inspection. American car~ 
only. 
~j Complete Guarantee 

~ 
.•.. 
·~ 
A GIFT OF DISTINCTION FOR ~:: CHRISTMAS OR FOR ANY OTHER ~llljl SPECIAL OCCASION .... FAMILY, ..:: ALUMNI. oR swEETHEARTs. ~ 
·:·: 
By now, these handsome college scences-skillfully 
i.;.:!.j.: 
hand-painted in oils on the reverse side of glass-have be-:::: come an American tradition. Each and every painting is :;:; destined to become a unique and cherished heirloom. ;:;~ 
With over 1500 scenes to choose from, it is more than ~~~ likely that your school is included in our growing list. Visit ·~ 
our store or give us a call; we cannot think of a better gift ::~ for your favorite graduates-or their dads-at this time of year. Allow ten days for delivery. 
G]OJ ~'­

mbt Wnicorn / 
FTS OF DISTINCTION 
c:.---o--vo---~ 
CALL NOW FOR FREE INSPECTION 
•Plus app;,·cable taxes. 
~'
~.h.1¥..W~h!8V..WH*...w&::W/.&M:::w.?.!::'..?;-;:;:;o.¥&?".t"-*-W-"«¥~«¥A.?"~W.«~u~:;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-.:::::o::--..:::::::~.::w.<.::--..:::::::::-.::--..:;;;:;:;:::::::::;:::;:::::::i~::?.O:o..:~::::~?.O:!:?.::i:~:~: 

Tuesday, November 11, 1975
'Society unfair, so are tests' the observer 
Dr. Williams attacks testing of blacks 

by Pat Cole Staff Rt>porter 
"A test can only reflect society. And if society is culturally unfair, then so are the tests." 
Dr. Robert L. Williams, professor of psychology from Washington University in St. Louis attacked the testing of black in­telligence last night in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
"The powers that be control the achievement test. This ultimately controls how blacks get into t·ollege," Williams said to a group of 70 people. "Psychological tests are a spin-off of the power motive in this society." 
Williams stated that the purpose behind intelligence testing is to prl'dict achievement. "This is now known as the IQ Test," he said. "However. this was used by supremists to negate the black t•xperience." 
Williams stated that the "mushroom theory" is one ob­stacle used by educators to limit the t•ducational growth of blacks. 
"You do three things to a mushroom," Williams explained. "You keep it in the dark, feed it manure, and then you watch it grow. Similarly, blacks have been kept in the dark and fed manure in this educational system." 
"Today, many people don't like the truth," he continued. "The Bible says that 'you shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free.' But I say that the truth will make you mad as hell about black education." 
Williams is currently a professor of psychology at Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri. He received his B.A. degree from Philander Smith College in Little Hock, Arkansas in 1953. He ob­tained a Master's degree in l'ducation from Wayne University and a Ph.D. from Washington University in 1961. 
Williams is one of the founders of the Association of Black Psychologists and is a former Director of Black Studies at Washington University. He is currently Director of Graduate Training in Urban Minority Mental Health. 
Williams is the originator of the Black Intelligence Test of Cultural Homogeneity <BITCH). He has appeared on CBS' IQ Myth Special and his work has been cited in CBS' "Good Times" Show. 
Williams cnea nis personal experience of testing intelligence. "I scored 82 on my IQ test and was now allowed to enter college," he said. "I stayed out of college for two years. When I finally went to college, I earned straight A's the first semester and graduated cum laude. I went on from there to earn master's and doctor's degrees." 
"Obviously I knew that something was wrong with the instruments of testing," Williams commented. "The problem was that I had a white IQ of 82 but a black IQ of probably 182. 
Williams explained that this led him to explore the nature of testing programs for black students. He said that the tests do not "relate to the black experience and demand white, middle class response." 
Ombudsman committee to find other uses for LaFortune Center 
Bv Don Hrimt'r St•ni;,r Staff Hrporter 
The Ombudsman service an­
nounced yesterday it will form a committee to study possible ehangcs in the use of LaFortune Studt•nt Center. The committee will become completely in­depmdent of the Ombudsman office after its formation. 
Matt Cockrell. Ombudsman director. t•xplained the purpose of the new committee. "The com­mittee will be concerned with making any further suggestions on structural changes in LaFortune," lw said. "Also it will examine student needs and how LaFortune could be used to solve them." 
One of the provisions in the first LaFortune study committee, formed four years ago, was for the formation of a control board to oversee the operation and use of the LaFortune center, according to Sue Darin. who will chair the new committee. 
The new committee will serve 
the same purpose as the original study group except that many of its duties have been diminished by the Lal<'ortune renovation. 
A major purpose of the com­mittee will be to encourage people to use the center for club activities. "The center has so much potential and it's not being used," said Cockrell. 
Cockrell said the center is used primarily by campus media and students who need a place to study. "Wl' must draw people up there," he continued, "and if there is an activitity, they'll be more likely to go there." 
Darin pointed to the Rathskeller as a possible area in which the eommittee might do some work. 
now appeanng in lhe 
The first LaFortune committee committee surfaced in October designed the Rathskeller as a after the Ombudsman presented a drinking area, to be used in the report to the Board of Trustees on event that the Indiana drinking age 1he status of LaFortune is lowered to 18. renovation. Cockrell cited the need 
With this possibility nearing, for "continuing study" of 
Darin said it might be time to LaFortune center by an organized 
invest some money in this area. group who can make recom­
mendations for its use. 
Cockrell and Darin agreed that 
the committee must have an "eye Persons interested in serving on 
for immediate needs" while the new committee are invited to 
working on long-range goals. meet in the Student Government 
Cockrell estimated that it will be offices at 9 p.m., Wednesday. 
another 20 to 25 years before the The organization of the com-
center is renovated again. rnittee will be discussed at the 
The need for a LaFo::::r:..:t:.::u::..:n..:::e_n_J_e_et_ing_.__________. 

~ir 1Zichards 
BARBER STYLING 

UNISEX HAIR STYLING 
129 DIXIEWAY SOUTH ROSElAND IN PORTAGE REALn BUILDING 277.0734 
203 N. MAIN ST. 
SOUTH BEND 289-6977 
the plus
George Graves 
Mail Pouch Hoom 
THE NEW BONNEVILLE SHOW BAND 
(This weekend -no cover charge with student I.D.) 
HAPPY HOUR Mon.-Fri. 4:00-7:30 LADIES' NIGHT Tues. 8:00-10:00 MEN'S NIGHT Thurs. 8:00-10:00 
PIZZAS, SNACKS
EVERY MONDAY-REDUCED PRICES 
& SANDWICHES
ON BEER AND BAR DRINKS 
SERVED ANYTIME 7 ft. TV screen for
Appropriate attire required for admittance 
Monday night football. · 
Williams criticized the Bain Test of Basic Concepts used in testing intelligence. The test uses 50 concepts to examine a child's reasoning skills. 
"For example, the test may ask a child to determine when a baseball is behind a sofa in a sketch. But to a black child, the word 'sofa' does not register. In nearly all cases, the black children get the question right if the word 'couch' is used." 
"Language is very important in the use of tests because it is a part of a person's culture," he stated. 
Williams is the author of the 

ent Union is taking 
MOVIE BIDS 
FOR THE SPRING SEMESTER THIS WEEK NOV 10-14 
IN LA FORTUNE CENTER AT: STUDENT ACTIVITI~OFFICE
STUDENT GOVERN NT 
RECEPTIONIST DE 
THXt8~6~Js~\b~KfPo~~T 
•:'(Price based on 5 day/4 nif:)ht low season package to Breckenridge, per person double occupancy, gas, taxes and air fare extra.) 
We'll show you a variety of complete, money-saving ski vacations to a variety of ski areas that include lodge or condominiums, lift tickets, meeting service at the airport and skierized Avis car. 
And, you can leave any day. Continental's low fares to Colorado won't 
_,____.,..., 
wipe out your budget, either. And 
J.~~~......&.'.~ ~.·.··_·.·.. ; you c~n charge it all on your
•,?·...... ·, ~ ... _. ·';!';> ·., Amencan Express Card. &{;!u'·(nfj'· SWJJl~ For more information
1 
.,. . ·.· · ., •· ··· on our Colorado Ski Packages, 
~... •""'--' ... ·, 
~~·E'!1m'o.,~~':;;~.... send in this coupon for your 
11 1 
· -· ~. free brochure. Or call Continental's Holiday Counselor or your Travel Agent for one-call confirmation and planning of your vacation. 
Continental Airlines 
UND 
P.O. Box 9000, Van NLiys, California 91406 
Please send me your free brochure on your Colorado ski packages. 
Name~~--­
Address___________ --~­
City State_____ZiP'------­Phone____ My Travel Agent is________ 
We really move our tail for you. 
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 

* 
fhe Proud Bird wtth tht:" !..Jolden Tdtl. 
book, Ebonies: The Trut> Languagl." or Hlack People. He explained that black people have certain ways of expressing feelings. "Ebonies means ebony and sound," he said. "Black people have expressions like most cultures out of the realm of standard English." 
"This is why the BITCH test was developed," the speaker stated. "We must not discredit the creative images in black ex­pression. Creativity is actually a form of intelligence." Williams suggested that ebonies be taught to 
(continued on page 6) 
~ ~~d.Q!?.,~~rver 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
~ 
//NO WfJ'R£ 
AMY, YOV CAN'T 
t£AV!N6M5 
8£ 5&/WIJS ABOUT 
TOR//NTH/5
BECOMING A NATE, I'M 
H0058ANP 
5/tVERSM/TH.. RESOLV&P 
FARM8Y 
\ 70TRY. 
r 
Foundt'd Novrmbt-r 3, 1966 
Terry Keeney Edotor-on-choef Tom Modglin Busoness Manager Tom Whelan Adverlisong Manager 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
•\I RliiiH'rlord. Manilgmg Editor. Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin. Editorial Editor. 
"''n Gtro"ard. Ntws Edttor; Bob Mader. Campus Editor. Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Ken llrildiord. Cnpy Editor. Bill Brink. Sports Eoitor; Tom O'NPil. Features Editor. 
Chris Smtih. Pllnf..l Edttor 
N•w• l~~~~~~~~IS________~B~u•~·n~•·~·~2~8~1-14~7-l---------------.. 
Tuesday, Novem.ber 11, 1975 
commentary I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
What •IS Neutral Space? 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ terry keeney 
A University committee recently recommended and administrators. Where can teachers go after that more "neutral space" be created at Notre class to continue a discussion with students over a 
Dame for informal gatherings of male and female cup of coffee? Of the classroom buildings, onlystudents. This recommendation met with the usual Hayes-Healy has any kind of lounge where students 
collective yawn from the student body. Along with and teachers can meet informally on "neutral" the yawn comes a big questio~ ~ark in the minds ?f grounds. These lounges should be spread to other students, faculty and admm1strators: What IS classroom buildings. Perhaps the eventual move of meant by "neutral space"? the Music Department from O'Shaughnessy will 
It is very unfortunate that no one really un­permit a similar lounge there. derstands the particular problem of neutral space. If these recommendations are to be taken It is especially unfortunate because the solution of seriously, then two things must First,
occur. this problem may go a long way toward improving existing facilities should be used for more creative social life on this campus. social functions. The introduction of the Nazz and 
What is neutral space? The COUL report defined Darby's Place last year provided good use of the 
it as areas of the campus where students can go and LaFortune Rathskellar. be free from the academic pressure of the Second, new and inexpensive areas for informal classroom and the social pressure of the con­gathering should be set up. The proposals for more ventional date. neutral space range widely in cost from the con­But step beyond the sociological rhetoric and version of current space for lounges to construction think: Where can students go on this campus of a mall area near LaFortune and Nieuwland to 
simply to relax and talk with fellow students or renovation of The Huddle. 
teachers? The Huddle simply is not equipped for There is certainly no lack of ideas for using and this purpose. There is little sea_ting room a~d the developing neutral space. But priority should be atmosphere is far from conducive to any kmd of given to developing lounges for student and faculty 
interaction. LaFortune is still not a true student use in the most frequented buildings, like the center. The renovation of the lobby looks im­library and the classrooms. pressive, yet has created a tomb-like atmosphere The ideal solution is the ultimate renovation of 
where silence is rarely broken. The Huddle. In the LaFortune renovation com­The COUL report said of the LaFortune pleted, last year, The Huddle was excluded simply 
renovation: "Extensive renovation of LaFortune because the money ran out. To do a good job on Student Center must be continued; it is a delusion to renovation will require an appropriation totalling consider the present building one that serves the several hundred thousand dollars, and may involve 
students' needs." the support of the Board of Trustees. The one area where students seem to meet the Several top administrators are even on record 
most is the second floor lobby of the Library. The 9 favoring some kind of pub in the Rathskellar if the 
p.m. study break has become a standard part of Indiana legislature ever lowers the drinking age.
academic life and has often raised the argument The responsibility for solving the problem of that the library, not LaFortune, is the real student neutral space now falls to the SLC. Hopefully, that center. Yet in a classic move to discourage even body will rise above its past immobilism to 
this natural interaction, recent weeks have seriously attempt to improve this aspect of student 
seen chairs removed from the lobby area to reduce the social life. Students cannot remain neutral on noise of the study break. "neutral space" much longer.
The neutral space problem also affects faculty 
seriousIy foIks !!!!!!!!!!'!!!~~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Junk Mail 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiart buchwaId 
a curved movie screen attached toWASHINGTON--Even important Howard Hughes a shower nozzle. It comes in kingpeople get junk mail. Through the Nassau, the Bahamas size, queen size and .... 
courtesy of the CIA I am able to provide some samples of mail that Dear Howard, Ralph Nader were thrown away before they Washington, D.C. 
were fully read: 
How would you like to meet new friends and have fun? The Arthur Dear Mr. Nader,Henry Kissinger 
Murray Dance Studios can now
Washington, D.C. 
offer you a special reduction for an Have you ever thought about introductory lesson in all the latest buying a Harley-Davidson 30 XLDear Mr. Kissinger, dance crazes. Don't sit at home motorcycle? You're only as youngwaiting for the phone to ring. as you feel and once you roar off onThis is your golden opportunity. 
There are hundreds of people one of our 1976 models you willWe are offering at a special dying to meet you, Howard, and know the thrill of....
discount "Power· and How To Use 
you have a whole new life ahead of
It," a most informative book for you if you ACT NOW.... The Maharishi Yogipeople who are lacking in self­Post Officeconfidence and are afraid to stand New Delhiout in a crowd. Learn how to seize the initiative in dealing with other Nelson Rockefeller Are you feeling tense, nervouspeople. You no longer have to take Washington, D.C. and unable to cope with life? Whya back seat to your friends and not take up golf? We have a fewstrangers. In six weeks you could memberships still open at thebecome another .... 
Rolling Hills Country Club .... Richard Nixon Dear Mr. Rockefeller, San Clemente, Calif. Fidel Castro Our new shipment of beds has Havana, Cuba Dear Mr. Nixon, just arrived and we know you'll be interested. Thanks to a Pre­
Dear Mr. Castro, Have you ever thought how Thanksgiving Day warehouse sale 
much simpler your life would be if you can now purchase a unique bed It's never too early to think about you had a tape recorder? If you that is not only for sleeping but is a life insurance. Perhaps you're one 
act now we will send you for 10 work of art. The mattress is ac­of those people who keeps saying, days, free of charge, one of our tually a mirror and the canopy "Nothing can happen to me." But 
Simplex Recorders, which you can above it has see-through glass so in these times of uncertainty why use not only to dictate letters into you can look at the ceiling while not assure yourself of protection but also to record conversations resting onyour10tomach. There are while it's still avialable? Just send with friends and associates. By six oars attached to the sides of the back this post card and one of our pressing a button the machine bed and a lifeboat hanging over the agents will be happy to call on you 
and .... 
activates itself and .... headboard. At the foot of the bed is 
I I
op1n1on 
In Your Court 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii joh n pheIan 
Over the weekend, the Scholastic Course Evaluation Booklet for the spring semester, 1976, was distributed to both campuses. Several members of the editorial board and staff of Scholastic, CE or both felt that this occasion both merits and demands a few comments. I was asked to voice these views. 
This booklet has been published by Scholastic for approximately eight years, at various times falling also under the auspices of the Observer. It has, in the past, been funded by Scholastic and is presently being funded by both Scholastic and Student Govern­ment. 
The setup of the booklet demands the cooperation of both the student body and the various departments. The students must write the evaluations of the courses and gather and sort the in­formation; the departments must supply course descriptions. From this system there should ideally come the most accurate descriptions, written by the professors themselves, and deman­ding, critical evaluations written by the students. The remainder of the student body should be able to rely on the evaluations to give them a precise idea of the format and success of a given course. Unfortunately, this situation has not existed, much to the detriment of the booklet. 
The vast majority, upwards of 80 or 90 per cent, of the evaluations in this booklet are weak and useless. Instead of critically analyzing the format of the class and the effectiveness of the professor, the evaluations tend to be pallid mimises and boring rehashes of what was already said in the descriptions. They wander far from the critical analyses they were intended to be, and instead, end up being the exact opposite: unqualified opinions. 
The descriptions, while being superior to the evaluations, still leave something to be desired in numerous cases. Several departments refused to cooperate and, as a result, the descriptions for those departments are sketchy, incomplete and hurried. In other words, they are of no help at all to a student. Other descriptions fail in an opposite manner; they tend to be verbose and to ramble on. They leave the student mired in an overabundance of detail. 
Herein lies the problem with CE. The booklet is for the use and benefit of the student, but it must also be written and produced by students. It is a service by and for themselves. Even in the case of descriptions, students are responsible for the collection and arrangement of them. It is ultimately the student body that has failed itself. 
Tremendous amounts of work and effort were put into this book by the members of its staff and editorial board. Long hours were spent gathering the material, proofreading and organizing it, getting it typed for production and in the prodiction itself. This went to the extreme of several students spending the entire USC weekend (40 strai~ht hours) putting the booklet together. This caused them to m1ss not only the game, the concert and other festivities of that weekend, but also the necessities of daily living. However, I would like to point out that we are not complaining about the amount of time that was put into this booklet-it was done willingly. 
But we feel that the amount of time that we put in this booklet was not proportional to the amount of cooperation we received in gathering the information for the booklet. We feel dismayed at the long hours we spent when other students could not even put in the hour or two necessary to make the evaluations and descriptions worthwhile. We are forced to ask ourselves why we put so much effort into a booklet that other people seem to care so little about. 
In effect we are asking for an evaluation of the CE by the student body: an evaluation not only in verbal support or condemnation <We ran a survey last semester at registration which received 1800 responses and showed approximately 95 per cent of the student body in favor of the continuation of the booklet.) but more im­portantly, in the form of precise and accurate descriptions and evaluations by the students. 
Perhaps we have reached the point where no one cares enough about evaluation of the curricula here, and if that is the case, the booklet should no longer be published. But if there is true support for the booklet, we are asking and demanding physical proof of it. 
To use a cliche, "the ball is in your court." Whatever happens to the booklet is now entirely up to the student body. 



opinion 
Morality Vs. Ethics 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ paul herbi9 
There is presently a great debate going on in this country con­cerning what themorals of this country should be. Many people say the country has lost its moral fiber and is in jeopardy of becoming another Rome. Immorality is being proclaimed all across the land as not the exception but the rule. This attitude is the prevailing mood throughout middle class America. 
But it seems that all of those yelling for stronger moral fibers have lost track of realities. What they are shouting for is not what they really mean. Moralsare individual idiosyncrasies individual beliefs and ideas. They are not a group process or co~mon to a large mass <rather a large mass of individuals may possess the same moral belief but it is not a group consensus but because each pri~a.te in~ividual believes that way and prefres it that way) Being mdividuahzed, they ca~not .tre proclaimed right or wrong as it is up to each member to decide hiS own set of values. They are his moral beliefs, let alone take them away. Being his they are exempt from other's regulations and views. 
Unfortunately such is not the case in the country today. The prevailingmood is that there is indeed a set of morals, that it should 
P.O. Box Q 
be imposed upon all, and no deviations are to be permitted. This views clearly asinine. Morals are individual affairs. How in hell is society going to impose a general view upon us all? Even if they could it'll only be rejected. Besides who would pick and choose 
-
among allof the morals as those best for all of us? 
allow the alumni direct any portion of us, first as foreigners struggling So.ciety has the rightidea but the wrong word. There are inof their contributions to the in a new environment, and also as 
cheerleaders. college students with our personal reah.ty tw.o completely different sets of morality: private and As a fan and a former requests and bitches. public. Pnvate morals cannot be legislated. Private morals should 
Implications 
cheerleader, I feel I can see both On the whole, school is more not be. Each individual has his own distinct unique set of beliefs-­an~ none are wrong. Morals are personalized and not a part of
sides of the situation. Perhaps this than adequate. We don't study as society as a whole. They are not the problem. Ethical principlesyear's squad has not quite pulled much as those under the Dome, but however are societal in nature. They (ethical standards) are theoff their image, but at least they if I wanted to live in a library with public morals. And these are the problems.
Bt•ar Editor: are trying to do what the fans my school books, I'd have stayed in Ethics principles are strange creatures. Definitions may differwant. Cheerleaders here have 
I would like to express my tried to emphasize the iimportance South Bend. Our history prof., Fr. but the meaning is understood. Private morals affect no one but t­Michael Cooper, is internationally he possessor. Ethics affect us all. Bad ethical princiP.les are li ke
support of the rational response of being natural in order to acclaimed as one of the top two termites in a well, invisibly weakening the whole until one day the <finally l that is now following from establish a rapport with the scholars in his field; his golden whole structure is destined to crumble down. Does one cheat?
the increasingly irrational and students. The goal of N.D. 
eloquence makes his class truly a Does one steal? lie? Those are ethical ideas--bad ethical moods.
over-emotional writings of Joe cheerleaders--past and present­
pleasure. Morals are not a matter for a larger look ; Ethics is. Un­
Corpora. has been to establish this rapport But extra-curriculars is what it fortunately wherever we look ethics is in short supply. 
And as a woman, regardless of in order to effectively direct the spirit of the crowd to support the is. Organized activities that people It. used to be we would look towards governmentor community my personal convictions on the 
team and university. It will never are into include karate, flower­busmess leaders for our leadership, our ethical code. Now,birth control-abortion issue, I be their purpose to merely en­arranging, soccer, tennis, Japanes tho';l~h,.everywhere you turn,~ degradation has taken place. Trust cannot emphasize enough how Politicians?. Trust them to he andcheat. This one took a bribe.
blatantly degrading were Mr. tertain; it has always been a dance, tea ceremony, and kendo That one swmdled public money. The foundation is slowly rotting Corpora's implications about the tradition that the the Irish Guard <Japanese fencing). 
away. Trust them no further than you can see them. Our business roles of women in relationships adds the "color" to the band's But the unorganized activities Ie~ders? ~hey are not much the bett&r. Who gives the bribes? Who
<sexual and-<>r otherwise) with performance. are what the Shinano-machi boys 
men. w.Itholds vital c~mmodities for their own profit? Who pollutes the
excel at. Where else but Japan
My feelings aside however, a I see in this year's squad a a1~ and water with nare a thought to the rest of us? Trust them? 
could we go to a police box, when
genuine desire to please their fans. Right. Trust them to empty our pockets maybe. Fatherly figures point I would like to make at this They probably felt that since the lost, tilting an open bottle of brew But not very helpful in setti~g a path for the rest of the country. ·time has nothing to do with the crowd goes crazy over the dance and have the policeman laugh and Of cou.rse, the strongest m~uence upon one is his parents. Butright to life issue per se or with the routines of other cheerleaders, kid you about it. <Actually, how eth~cal are t~ey? . Cheatmg the government is acceptable.
women's movementeither. What it 
that perhaps if they developed a probably a lot of places, but surely S1;1ccess IS not paymg bills and getting away with it. The objectis todoes deal with is responsibility--an style more pleasing to the not Indiana! l. wm re~ardles~ ~ow one does it, ~ho gets hurt in the process and to
attribute which Mr. Corpora 
students, they might get a better Christmas vacation plans are hell Wit~ l~gahties: The only ~hmg that matters is winning. Fromeonlends men and women do not response to their cheers. many and varied. There is a the begmmng a child learns h1s parents can lie but he shouldn't.
assert if and when they practice A~d t~at when he'~ big, he's learned all the lessons fromthem andbirth control or have abortions. At USC, cheerleading is more or program trip to Nagasaki and ~Ill wm--at any pnce. Great training in the battlefield of life but1\ly point is this: as long as Mr. less a way of life. The girls have a Shimonoseki, where we will be htlle help in getting along with iis fellow man. After that, who elseCorpora intends to go on chastizing professional choreographer and staying with Japanese families. As can one turn to?
others for their alleged make-up man, and they also major long as we are there, we thought As g.oes. the le~dership,s o goes the country. The lack of ethical 
irresponsibility, he should attempt in choreography. we should go to.a friend's house in behayi.or m our h1~her echelons has definitely influenced the rest of to be responsible himself--in what Korea, which is only a cheap boat the Citizenry. This flow down the ladder effect can be seen in thehe writes and implies about others. It seems to be the fad lately on ride away. Skiing in Japan and distinct increase in crime, not only violent crimes but in the lessthis campus to criticize the football surfing in Saipan round out our publiciz~d white ~ol~or crime: ~mbezzlement and pilferage are atl.t>slie Wilson, SM(' '76 team, the coach, and the month break. Other Domers plan record highs .. This IS no comc!dence. The filtering affect of thecheerleaders. I know the basic on visiting Okinawa, Hong Kong, bad leadership at the top has fmally reached the middle classlove of Notre Dame is still there so and various spots in Japan. 
Unless this pattern is changed, more such crimes are likely to bewhy don't we all just support th~m seen.
becuse they are a part of Notre And so, you freshmen who Like a snowball rolling down a hillside, the momentum of such illDame? Then, perhaps, we can believe tyou just might be able to effects are accelerating. There will be increasingly severe cases ofbuild their confidence, which they survive a year outside te protect­such crimes and quite a few more ofthem. This breakdown can
A Part of ND 
need to fulfill their obligations. 
only leadto a total breakdown of the country as a whole. It is an internal disease. And as such the patient will not notice the effects ion, parietals, and pimps of the 
Golden Dome, and you who
Shelley Muller '76 can until he collapses. The effects ofthe breakdown will accumulatebear the constant exclamation of untilallat once it bursts into the scene with grand uglines. Themost other Domers, "What the hell snowball must be stopped and at once.
do you want to go to Japan for?", 
Albert Schweitzer said it convincingly. "Ifmen can be found whoBt>ur Editor: think about our little ole program. 
revolt against the spirit of thoughtlessness and who are per­It's the only one where intensive sonalities sound enough and profound enough toletthe ideasofAfter reading the recent letters study is not a prerequsite, and the ethical ;progress radiate from them as a force, there will start an
Japan Support
about the Notre Dame only one where you can discover activityof the spirit whch will be strong enough to evoke a new
cheerleaders and listening to 
the mysterious secrets of the mental and spiritual disposition in mankind."
comments over a period of time, it 
has become apparent to me Orient. It is ethics that is the problem. We need those personalities now.
that 
quite a few people misunderstand We need leaders willing to give a strong stance with favorable Yours in Tokyo, ethics. We need them now. The error of the Nixon Administration
the purpose of the college 
Terry Finnegan was while they were trying to guard the morals of the country, their cheerleader here at Notre Dame. 
I hope to clear things up a bit. Dear Editor: ethics was anything but acceptable. We really needn't worry about morals. It isthe ethics of the country that must be reinstated. 
First of all, people may not Greetings from the Orient! 
Ethics--andthe return of them-is the solution.
realize how rigorous the selection We receive copies of the Ob-of cheerleaders is--not only for server about a week late and those trying out, but especially for circulate among the eight Domers stadium ushers removed a large hasten to assure you that your gift those actually selecting them. here. We all read with interest the portion of the problem of was very much appreciated.
Words of 
Last spring, I was one of ten people articles on our program, but we organizing a group of this nature 
who made the final decision. We were taken back a bit by some by their courteous service. We Thomas J. Harbin
Thanks
chose those girls on the basis of quotes. I mean, for Christsakes, to would especially like to thank Kathleen McGlynn dance talent. coordination, en-call Fr. DeVera, our program Maureen Muldoon in Student Chairpersons thusiasm · ' sincerity • and crowd director, something out of the Activities for her help in collecting NDSMC Council for the Retarded appeal. They also had to have a the tickets and for countless other 
genuine desire to generate spirit at Inquisition. Just because the man 
small services and the Knights of 
All letters to the editor should
the football and basketball games has a Spanish name!; any student 
Dear Editor: Columbus for providing a hotdog 
be sent to The Observer,
and to act aspublicrelations agents who stayed overseas for a year The NDSMC Council for the lunch. 
Editorial Editor, Post Office
between the teams, university, and should have matured enough to Retarded would like to take this The biggest share of credit for 
Box Q or brought to the office of
alumni. keep from making such outrageous 
opportunity to thank the many the day's success however, is due 
The Observer located on the top 
They also had to be willing to go statements. people who contributed to the to the Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
floor of the LaFortune Student
out and raise money for the away The man also happens to be Vice­success of the Georgia Tech students donated their
who 
Center.
game::;. They are not funded by the President of the University, and if football ticket exchange. tickets.It may seem like a small 
All letters are subject to
athletic department, but they do he can't spend all his time on the Mr. Michael Busik, the ticket sacrifice to make, but the types of 
receive a very minimal amount thirty people in our Year-in-Japan manager, was extremely people who are willing to g1ve to 
editing for length and taste, and 
from the student activities fund. Program, so be it. He has shown a hospitable and went out his way to others are rare and special. There 
should be concise as possible. However, the university willnot 1 genuine interest and concern in all accomodate our group. The are 135 retarded citizens who will .,___________....., 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


Won't refrain from outblrsts 
'Squeaky' barred again from courtroom 

SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) -Lynette Fromme, who blind­folded herself and was carried into the courthouse by a deputy marshal, was barred again Monday from her trial on charges of trying to kill Presi­dent Ford. 
The 27-year-old follower of Charles Manson, convicted with four others in the 1969 slayings of actress Sharon Tate and six other persons, refused to prom­ise U.S. District Court Judge 
Thomas  MacBride  that  she  
would  refrain  from  future  out­ 
bursts in  court.  
Last  Friday  she  was  twice  

ejected after trying to plead guilty and demanding that !\I anson be allowed to testify. She also vowed that she would have to be carried from the jailhouse to court. 
U.S. Marshal Arthur Van Court said Miss Fromme was wearing a red scarf as a blind­fold when officers arrived at her cell Monday morning. He said she neither resisted nor co-
Williams attacks testing of blacks 
(continued from page 3) whites to enable them to know how black people communicate. ··My test has shaken up the in­dustry because they don't know how to deal with the black com­munity," Williams revealed. "As proof. many whites can't answer questions on my test. Yet they are allowed to work with black kids." The BITCH test is designed for black people 16 years or older to measure their cultural homogeneity. 
The Scholastic Aptitude Test has not been an effective means of measuring black intelligence, according to Williams. 
"Only 15 percent of black kids score above 400 on the SAT," he said. "Only 2 percent score above 'iOO on this exam. But black :-;tudents are getting into college in higher numbers than before. Something must be wrong." 
Williams called the Law School .\ptitude Test "inaccurate." Ac­cording to Williams, these tests are designed to predict college suc­cess. "But by keeping a student out of school because of a low test score. you don't give him a chance to succeed." he said. 
Williams explained that the SAT will not be eliminated because of "Power and money," indicating that the Educational Testing S<•rvice is a multi-million dollar business. 
Williams listed the steps that a black man goes through in achieving his modes of thinking. "First there is the pre-encounter stage in which the black man is the individual among an interracial society." he said. 
··However. racism often in­terferes with this process. Next there is the pro-black stage. Yet this does not imply an anti-white belief." 
·'Then a black man reaches a black authenticity stage," he continued. "This means struggling for a cause and using intelligence to work for black people. Marcus <;arvey once said, 'Men can't build for others, they must build for themselves.' This is what black people must do." 
Williams emphasized the im­portance that blacks develop a spirit of "Afrocentricity" -the development of a black outlook on life. 
"I think black people have to take a stand on things as they relate to their heritage," he stated. "Black people must be ac­countable to their own people." 
Williams stressed the need that children be taught to control their fate. "Carlegy Woodson once said, ·If you lead someone to certain fallacies, you don't have to worry about what he thinks.' This is why some of the best minds are in prison," he said. 
operated with the officers who the defendant. It again de­Larry Buendorf to grab the gun witnesses have told reporterslifted her into a van and drove manded the presence of Man­from a defense investigator the they heard such a clicking
her to court. son and other members of his way he had seized it from Miss sound. 
so-called family at the trial. Fromme. 
Before the jury was brought Manson and four women are When Buendorf clamped his Authorities say there were in, MacBride asked her if she serving life sentences for the hand forcefully on the gun, a four live rounds in the pistol's would promise to avoid further Tate murders. loud click was heard in the magazine but no cartridge in disruptions and make any fu­courtroom. the chamber. 
ture objections through her If convicted of attempting to court-appointed attorney, John assassinate the President, Miss The demonstration apparent­Buendorf also testified he felt Virga. Fromme, too, could be sen­ly was intended to undercut the gun "moving in her hand" 
tenced to life in prison. any testimony of a sound as if but did not feel a vibration as 
"No, I'm the only one who In court on Monday, jurors the gun's hammer had fallen on though the hammer was com­could put on my defense," said were shown how the gun Miss an empty chamber. Some Pye-ing forward to fire a shot. Miss Fromme, who called her Fromme allegedly pointed at refusal "a matter of principle." Ford could have clicked with­
out a shot being attempted. She was taken to -a court­
ArmyROTC
Virga continued to questionhouse holding cell, where she Secret Service agents who saidrefused for the second straight they wrested a loaded .45-cali­
trial day to watch the proceed­ber semiautomatic pistol from 
letsyou qualify
ings on closed-circuit television, Miss Fromme as she stoodVan Court said. 
about two feet from Ford on Later, Miss Fromme's room­Sept. 5 outside the state Capi­mate, Sandra Good, distributed tol. 
for a doublelife! 
a statement she said was from At one point he asked You can earn a commission while you earn 
your degree. And that doubles your vocational opportunities. You can pursue either a civilian 
ONIGH 
Pitcher Beer Night 
career or serve as an officer. Either way, Army ROTC trains you for
WITH 
success. You learn valuable leadership and management skills which usually aren't offered
BRUCE CARR 
by any courses. You make no commitment when you enroll
fhe White House Inn 
in the Basic Course. You can ace it or flunk it. Or, you can drop it. That all depends upon you.
8 mi. N. of State Line Take 31 to Niles, then North on 51, 3 miles 683-9842 
But you owe it to yourself to look into Army ROTC. It might be your thing. At least it's worth checking into. 
Cinemam Present, 
Freshmen can preregister Nov 13-20, 1975, for Army ROTC during the Spring 
semester. Army ROTC 
"ALL QUIET 
ON: THE WESTERN FRONT" __. 
notre dame
TUESDAY and WEDNESDAY notre dame, ind.46556
8-10 P.M. ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM · 
~ phone: 283-6264 ADMISSION 1.00 
~ Army ROTC. Learn what it takes to lead. 
·I· N·T· R· 0 ·D ·U · C·l· N·G · 

RCII GOLD SEAL 



A New Dimension in Sound Economy Highest Artistry • Finest Ouality • At the Lowest Cost 
FRilZ REINER~ HAYDN ~mphony ~mphony 
No.95 No.IOI 
AGLI-1264 Monteux/Tc:haikovsky: Symphony #5/Boston Symphony Orchestra AGLI-1273 Leiusdorf/ProkofieH: Romeo & Juliet/ AGLI-1265 Previn/Tc:haikovsky: Symphoay #2/Liadov: Eight Russian Folk Songs/ Boston Symphony Orchestra London Symphony Orchestra 
AGLI-1274 Eileen Farreli/MUDCh/Waguer/Boston Symphony Orchestra AGLI-1266 Perlmau/Leiu!idorf/fc:haikovsky: Violin Concerto/Dvorak: Romance/ AGLI-1275 Reiner /Haydn: Symphonies #95 & 101 Boston SymphQI"ly Orchestra AGL1-1276 
Mehta/Don Juan/Feste RomaDe/Los Angeles Philhannonic AGLI-1267 Ric:hu;r/Leiusdorf/Brahms: Piano Concerto #2/ 
AGLI-1277 MUDCh/Berlioz Overtures/Boston Symphony Orchestra Chicago Symphony Orchestra 
AGLI-1278 Reiner/Waguer/Chicago Symphony Orchestra AGLI-1268 MUDCh/Sc:hubert #8/Beethoven #5/Boston Symphony Orch. 
AGLI-1279 Richter in Recital AGLI-1269 Reiner/Vienna/Chicago Symphony Orchestra 
AGL1-1280 Reiner/Brahms:Symphony #3/Chicago Symphony Orchestra AGLI-1270 MUDCh/Ravel: Daphnis & Chloe (Complete I/ 
AGLI-1281 Pears/Bream/Music for Voice & Guitar Boston Symphony Orchestra 
AGLI-1282 Ry8811ek/0peratic: Arias/Basile, Conductor AGLI-1271 Fiedler/Stars & Stripes/Cakewalk/Boston Pops Orchestra 
AGLI-1283 Cabaii~/Verdi Rarities/Gulld.goo, Conductor, AGLI-1272 Monteux/Straviusky: Petrouc:hka/Boston Symphony Orch. 

RCAitalianaOrchestra Now Available ~------....... at Notre Dame 

9 8 EACH LP 
Bookstore

ONLY$ 


Tuesday, November 11, 1975 
the observer 7
Attrition rate at 50 per cent 
.I 
Notre Dame's Navy ROTC examined 
(continued from page 1) 
ficer, but -he's not the type you like as a person." 
However, the instructors are usually close to their own students, O'Driscoll added. 
Drill 
The requirement of one hour of drill per week is considered a necessity by some and labeled "useless" by others. Melnyk said that other forms of leadership training have been considered, but drill is the only activity suited to leadership training. He noted that team sports were considered as a second semester replacement for drill, hut that was rejected as being inadequate. 
"Drill gives you command ex­perience and the ability to take orders without thinking," Melnyk said. The ability to take orders without thinking may, in some situations, save the officer's life in the future, he pointed uut. 
It is impossible for a mid­
shipman to go through the ROTC 
program and not be a drill leader 
at some point, Melnym said. 
Other students disagreed. "Ask 
anyone who's not a platoon 
leader," one said. "All it is is 
putting, on a unihrm for an hour 
and walking arou11d in circles." 
A senior noted that neither 
1\>klnyk. nor his executive officer, 
Mark Gibson, had ever been a 
platoon comm~;nr 1 er. Students who 
arc not platoon commanders leacl 
drill "for about five minutes a 
scmrster," the student added. 
()'Driscoll said drill teaches the 
students 'hing they have to learn. 
"But no• for t\JO semesters," he 
said. llnll becomes repetitious in 
the sccor.d semester, he stated. 
l'n•tJaration for Navy lift• 
Thr NHOTC program is not like 
the regular Navy. Melnyk doesn't 
sec this to be a problem. Others 
disagree. 
"Ideally this is what the Navy 
should be,'' Melnyk said. The Navy 
is not like NHOTC, Melnyk said, 
because of the duties required of a 
Navy officer. "In my case I'm 
going into destroyers," the 
battalion commander stated. 
"They'll put me onto a twenty­
year-old or thirty-year-old 
destroyer and the mere task of 
keeping the thing running 
precludes any other activity." 
()'Driscoll said that NROTC 
students see only the bright side of 
the Navy. He remarked that the 
instructors at Notre Dame are some of the best in the service and that the summer cruises are designed to give the students a good impression of the Navy. 
"You don't see the problems," he said. "My ship had the best rating in the Atlantic fleet, but still there were drug problems, racial problems, and theft. You have to talk to as many people as possible on the cruise and find out what the Navy is really like." 
One student said that from what he's seen on the summer cruises "the Navy isn't as bad as this place." Another said, "From what I've seen of the real Navy, I'm disillusioned by what I see here. It gives you no idea of what the Navy is about." 
Bene£its 
The biggest benefit of Navy HOTC is the money. The govern­ment pays all of the tuition, fees, hooks, and laboratory expenses of scholarship students. The scholarship students also receive $100 dollars per month for up to forty months as a "subsistence allowance." Non-scholarship students receive $100 dollars per month during their junior and senior year. 
The summer cruises provide an opportunity for the students to travel. ()'Driscoll said his cruise was in the Bahamas and he said he "had a great time." 
The midshipmen participate in a number of other activities, ac­cording to NROTC literature. The midshipmen sell programs bdore the home football games, par­ticipated in the bike-a-thon to raise money for retarded children last year, and assist in Veterans D~y celebrations of It cal •Tganizations. 
Informal social gatherings take place before horr.e football games to provide an opportunity for students and officers to get to know each other Tl.e battalion also has 
its  own  newspaper,  the  Irish  
l'l'nnanL  
Attrition  

: feiffer stated that "about five" students hd ve dropped out of the program this year. He noted that since the students dropped at the beginning ol the year, this in­dicated that they had decided against a Navy career. Had the students dropped at the end of the year, it would appear they in tended to stay in NROTC simply for the money and withdraw befor thev were obligated to enlist. 
WANTED 
Want riders to N.Y. State-leave Thurs. (Nov. 13) or Fri. Return Sunday. Call Mike Raftls, 272-1475. 
· Need ride to Louisville for Thanksgiving break, Nov. 24 or Nov. 25. Call Carol 6834. 
Please! Really need up to 6 Pitt tickets. Call Mark 3462. 
Need ride to Minnesota, weekend of Nov. 14th. Call Ann 5166. 
Need 4 Pitt tickets. Call Mark at 272-5133. 
Need 1 Pitt ticket, 272·3294. 
Need ride to Lincoln or Omaha on Friday, Nov. 14th. Call Bill, 1629. 
Need ride to Missouri area (Sedalia) for Thanksgiving break. Call George, 3279. 
Call 291·1887 about driving new Granada to Manchester, Missouri 
around Dec. needs driver.  20th. All  ·Couple expenses.  
R eterences.  

FOR SALE 
Super-Sealy double bed for sale. Mattress, box spring, frame -$50. Good shape. Call 272-6831. 
FOR RENT 
One bedroom apartment In modern complex to sublet. Call 283 7446 or 233-6561. 
Rent my upstairs. Near $50 mo. 233-1329. Keep trying. 
NOTICES 
Used books and paperbacks. Large stock of general reading material and o.p. books. Bring this ad and receive one free paperback with any $1.00 purchase. The Bookstack 112 W. Lexington, Elkhart, ln. 46514. 
Walshites: Now ;s yPur chance to win a free date wlrh a mystery man of your ,ureams! Act fast! 
Accurate, fast typing. Call Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. 
Typing 35 cents per page. Call Dan 272-5549. 
Book Shop. 30,000 Books and Prints. Ralph A. Casperson Books. 
Quality stereo equipment, 30 to 60 percent off. Factory direct, guaranteed to beat any price in town 1 Golden Dome Record & Music Co., 809 Flenner. Ph. 1492. 
Budapest night. 1989 Prairie Ave. Only Hungarian restaurant In Michlana area. Open 5:00 -10:00 Tues. thru Sat. Serving American dinners but specializes In Hungarian entrees. Serving beer and imported wines. For reser· vations call 234-2332. 
Morrissey Loan Fund -$20-$150, 1 day waiting period. 1 percent In­terest. Due in 30 days. La Fortune basement, M-F, 11:15-12:15. 
\.Xenette pointed out that with­One student said he believes that man one day for every day he has drawal from the program is better some enter the program for a "f.ree spent as a midshipman. described as "attrition." "They ride" on the scholarship, and Most students don't know if they may flunk out of the University, become disillusioned by the in-want a Navy career, accol'ding to they may be physically structors. Others feel the third Pfeiffer. After four years the disqualified, or they may decide to class summer cruise between junior officer may resign his go into a new field such as freshmen and sophomore years regular commission, but he must medicine or law," he said. has a large influence. serve· in the Navy Reserve for two 
"We have two years to look at years. The Navy is the only service 
them," Pfeiffer said, "and them at which awards regular, as opposedA senior said thar_ themstructors 
us. They just decide they don't to reserve status, commissions to
play a big part in attrition. "The want a Navy career."If a student its graduates.
instructors are all you see of the doesn't withdraw from the One senior said that he doesn'tNavy for your first year," he said. 
program before the beginning of believe that more than fifty per­"There may be personality con­his junior year, the student has an cent remain in ~he service, and theflicts between the instructor and obligation to serve as an enlisted actual number is probably lower.
the students." Currently the attrition rate is running abuut 50 percent, ac­
:······· ••pl~cA·riie·· ·····: 
cording to Pfeiffer and Gennette. A 
senior  estimated  it  to  be  55-60  •  
percent.  :  
There  are  204 students  in  the  :  
program,  seven  of  whom  are  •  
women.  There are  79 students in  •  

the freshmen class, and the • number drops to 38 in the senior e class. 
A senior noted that his class : started as freshmen with 108 • students, 29 more than this year. • 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WITHOUT AFASCIST 
1303  Niles-Buchanan  Road,  lies.  
Hours  Wed.  Sat.  Sun.  9  to  7 or  
chance.  


WITHIN FIFTEEN MILES 
The Ultimate in Comfort -Jasper pants only S10 at Jennifer's. Now at Scottsdale, upper level, across from Scotch Mist. 
mBlAME:'MARK VONNEGUT 
In 1969, Mark Vonnegut graduated
Earn extra money part-time on 
commission basis. For Info call 
from Swarthmore College. Bored with 
Bob 289-5104. 
East Coast academia, suspicious of 
his father's literary notoriety, and
Pregnant and didn't mean to be? 
Call Birthright 288-7640. 
determined to stay true to the principles of hippiedom, he headed for British Columbia to start a commune. Two years later, he was com­
LOST & FOUND 
Found: One lady's watch on 1st floor corridor of Dillon Hall. Navy 
mitted to a psychiatric hos-
weekend. Call 3613. 
pital-diagnosed severe! y schizophrenic.
Lost dog after Halloween party at 
N.D. Ave. and Wayne. All black 
THE EDEN EXPRESS is 
with white spot on chest, answers 
about the inconsistencies of
to Simone. Reqard. 288-2825. 
the youth movement of the '60s, American myths and 
PERSONALS 
human relationships, and the pain and stigma of mental 
"Get me to the church on time" 
illness. But most importantly, 
contest. Wlz (Voz) and the Wan­
it is about Mark's struggle to
dering SMC call OMO at 3376 to guess the date. 
stay alive and significant. 
A FRANK E. TAYLOR BOOK
The Sunrise Breakfast Club (af­
filiated with the Fr. Sorln Lunch Club) thanks K.F.C. for the gazebo feast by the river. 
Hey Bob! What's this every-other­Monday-night stuff? Drink more chicken soup! 
Your every-other-Monday.nlght assistant. 

lie believes that his class was • • elj;,• ~ • e • • • • • • -.-.-.-.--. 
large because students entered the program to avoid the draft at the 
,-----------------.,
end of the Vietnam war. 
Werner to play : LOUIE'S I 
t N.D. AVE. t
atcrgan recital 
t A JAWS t 
Leszek Werner, professor of t OF A f organ at the State Academy of Music in Cracow, Poland, will play a guestorgan recital Sunday, November 16, at 3:00 p;.m., in 
, 

I 
Grace Methodist Church, South 
t. t
Bend. 
Professor Werner is playing at t t the invitation of the Saint Mary's College Music Department and t t will play works by Zipoli, Scarlatti, 
-t t
Walther, Lubeck, Bach, Brahms, 
Machi, and Peeters. Also included 
t t
in the program will be three works by Polish mastersfromthe 18th t t century. 
A distinguished graduate of the t t Academy of Music in Cracow, Dr. Werner has given concerts in Poland, Austria, Belgium, Italy, 
IALL NIGHTs E sl
the Soviet Uioon, Canada, Mexico and the United States. He works in collaboration with t­he "Cappella Cracoviensis" in 
IDRINKS AND PIZZA I 
Cracow, and also with the Polish Radio and Television. Professor Werner will give a 
second program Monday, !OPEN 6:00 REDUCED I
_________________)
November 17, at 8:00 p.m. on the Goshen College campus, Goshen, Indiana. Admission to both per­formances is free. 
''I WAS GOING NUIS••• 
• DINING ROOM • • RANDALL' I : 
W E 0 N E 5 0 A Y N I G H T 5pE ( I A l • FRIED CHICKEN •• 
• MASHED POTATOES-SALAD-HOT BISC'llJTS • 
• , , , WITH THIS COUPON: • 
ALL \ OU (AN EAT 5 CENTS FOR FIRST • (? Jn BEER (WITH DINNER): 

-----~---~ 
Keenan tops Pangborn for IH title
1.. 
By Ray O'Brien 
Keenan crushed Pangborn Sunday afteroon 22-0 to take the Interhall Football Championships. It was the first time a North Quad team has won it in over five years. 
Keenan's awesome defense established itself from the first set of plays. Unable to cross the line of scrimmage in their first three plays, Pangborn was forced to punt. A strong Keenan rush partially blocked the punt and gave the Keenan offense good field position at their own 44 yard line. 
Pangborn's "Violence Defense" also held in their first test. Joe Kern punted the ball43 yards to the Pangborn 8 yard line where Pangborn fumbled. Keenan's Greg Wilkes dove on the ball setting uo Keenan's first scoring opportunity: The Keenan offense took advantage as quaterback John Feeney tossed a 6 yard pass fo split end Nick Molinaro for the opening score. 
Pangborn gave the ball right back on their next play as fullback 
..... 
Steve Thomas fumbled and linebacker Pat Concannon recovered at Pangborn's 31 yard line. 
Keenan behind the power run­ning of Pinky Faherty and Joe Kern, along with some costly Pangborn penalties took it the distance. Faherty hulled his way up the middle for the finalt three yards and the touchdown. Feeney then flipped to Faherty in the end zone for the 2 point conversion. This ended the first quarter and seemed to put the final blow on 
Pangborn who just couldn't recover. 
Pangborn had a chance to get back into the game when a Feeney pass was intercepted and returned to the 7 yard line. It was straight backwards from there as the Keenan defense threw ' them back 24 yards in the next three plays to the 31 yard line. Kicking specialist Tom Holroyd just missed a 49 yard field goal attempt as it sailed slightly to the left. Keenan took over and ran out the 
clock to end the first half. 
Pangborn's "Violence Defense" Pangborn. Parseghian saia, "We had the advantage of watchingPangborn play Wednesday and I saw how their defense blitzed at will, so we mixed up our plays a lot and it worked. A number of breaks also helped us." 

%Observer 
Sports 
played well throughout the first half. Costly fumbles and penalties just put them. in a very bad position. The Pangborn defense was on1he field for a long time as Keenan's ball control offense ate up the clock. 
Punter Joe Kern pinned Pangborn deep in their own territory the whole game with his booming punts. It was a tremendous Kern punt of 51 yards into the wind that led to Keenan's fourth quarter touchdown. The ball landed on Pangborn's 7 yard line and tolled to the two yard line. Two plays later Keenan's defense coughed up the ball as Pat Con­cannon recovered his second fumble of the game. Kern then dove in from the 1 yard line to add to his heroic performance. Pinky Faherty, who carried the ball over twenty times on the day, scored the two point conversion to finish the scoring in the game as Keenan triumphed 22-0. 
Pangborn played tough as they held in there to the final second. Linebacker Gary Hankemer was a bright spot for Pangborn as he held together the "Violence Defense." Pangborn coach Jeff Jeffers was proud of his team as he stated: "We didn't play a bad game, we just played a better team. Keenan played by far the best game anyinterhall team ever played that I have seen." 
The Keenan defense really owned the game. The fearsome fivesome consisting of Don Biship, Bill Jacobitz, Lou Drago, Paul Riordan, and captain AI Sondej buried anything that came their way. Pangborn's offense was held to an amazing minus 2 yards in 26 carries. AI Sondej attributed the 

There are two things which haunt every athlete --injuries and slumps. Defensive tackle Jeff Weston's problems are in the latter area. 
"It's normal for any kid to get 
down on himself when things 
aren't going well," defensive line 
coach Joe Yonto explains. 
The 6-4, 255 pound Rochester, N.Y., native certainly agrees with his coach! on that point. "I wasn't playing aggressively," the sophomore admits. "I wasn't getting off the ball. I was standing up and reading too much. You can't afford to do that as a defensive lineman." 
Weston certainly didn't do that against Navy. In most cases, the breakout! from a slump is gradual. Weston's was explosive.
"He did an excellent job," sidekick Steve Niehaus says. "He was in on all those tackles (22), sacked their runners twice, had a fumble recovery. The interception <53 yards for a touchdown) was just icing on the cake." 
And something neither Navy nor 
Weston every expected. "It's 
something you dream about," 
Weston continues, "but you never 
think, it will come true." 
But it did. "When he (Navy 
punter Steve Dykes l dropped his 
hand back," Weston reflects, 
"everyone was yelling that it was 11 
fake punt. I dropped back into the 
middle when I saw Steve, Tom 
<Lopienskil and Ross <Browner) get to him. He threw the ball and fortunately I was in the right place." 
"My first thought was to run," he continues. "I wasn't even thinking about a touchdown until I saw the endzone wide open. Then I put the jets on. The guys were all kidding me during Sunday's film hour. Niehaus was saying, 'Look at the Juice go."· 
Strength has never been a problem for Jeff Weston, although there was some question before this season about his weight. 
"Last year I played around! 248," Weston reflects. "This summer I got up to 280 by lifting and eating. Maybe it was natural growth. I reported at 265, and when Coach Devine saw me, he told me to lose more weight." 
But an achilles tendon injury didn't make that task any easier. Still Weston was ready when the Irish opened at Boston College, but his play wasn't what Yonto had expected. 
"He was doing a lot of little things wrong," Yonto adds. "His strenghth has always been fine, but he had to utilize his quickness and .strength when following through with his blows. He had to work on them." 
And while Weston worked, op­posing teams worked--away from Niehaus(· and Browner and at Weston and Willie Fry. 
"Coach Yonto told Willie and me 
that teams would naturally come 
