
'Worlds largest picnic on one campus' 
~---------------­
Carney'75 kic~s off_ school__ye~r 
by Joe GUI ..~ Staff Reporter 
-·­
As Carney '75 opened last night on the South Quad, hot dogs, chicken and fudgesicfes satisfied the hungry crowd. 
Ed Byrne, student body president, welcomed the crowd with a few statements about Student Government: "We are going to have a student voice in anything the University regulates; that is, anyUting which exerts some type of control over our lives.." . 
"Further lobbying efforts will be made to lower the drinkinl age to 18 and more work will be done with the judicial boards," Byrne said. 
Fr. Edmund Joyce, executive vice president of he University, spoike in the absence of Fr. Hesburgh. Hesburgh is presently in Washington working with the Amnesty Board. 
Joyce referred to this in his speech: "I'd like to welcome all of you here this evening, and especially the freshmen. I'm sorry that Fr. Hesburgh himself wouldn't be here to welcome you, but he's in Washington now, giving...er...special counsel to President Ford." 
Joyce then spoke about the University. "I think perhaps that Notre Dame has set another world record this evening. Notre
• 
Dame has traditionally set collegiate World records in the past. We have the world's larges library under one roof. We have the world's larges athletic center under one roof. And now I think we have stablished the world's record for the largest picnic on one cam­
PERFECT WEATHER sets the festival mood as students celebrate the start of the school year at pus." Carney '75. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
He explained, "I'm not talking about the quantity of students here, but rather the quality. We take pride in having the best students in the world." 
Joyce concluded with a special message to the freshmen, that they might "grow in friendship with each other, so that when you leave, you might thank God for your time spent here." 
Water balloons, frisbee and baseball tosses, and football throws highlighted the area surrounding the band. Disc jockey Kevin Joyce of WSND conducted trivia contests in the area near the engineering auditorium\\ with gift certificates donated by local~ businessmen as prizes. 
The contests were intermingled with the playing of Smith&: Co., a "top-40" style band whose music was well-received by the crowd. 
Mark Grove and Mary Iden were Co-ehairpersons for Carney '75 and for the entire orientation program. "Basically, what this is tonight is the official opening of the school year. It also serves as the big social event of orientation," Iden said. 
During the evening, the Notre Dame band marched past. The crowd converged on either side of it, clapping and yelling. 
C.O.U.L probes coed life
Balloons, colorful clowns and laughter characterized the evening. 
Editor's note: The Committee on Undergraduute A lack of "affirmative action" in recruitment of Life, C.O.U.L., was created by the Board of Trustees women was cited as the second problem facing the last October at the request of a group of student university. The committee felt that "some visible and leaders headed by SBP Pat McLaughlin. It looked at aJ;"ticulated affirmative action plan with some in­problems and strong points In five areas of un­stitutionalized and standarized means of im­
dergraduate life at Notre Dame and suggested plementation are necessary if Notre ~~me is fi~~ly possible ways of Improving the quality of life here. committed to attracting and retammg quahf1ed The committee sent Its report the Board's Student women to the faculty." 
Affairs committee last May where It was considered but not officially acted on. The fact that many women on the Notre Dame faculty are calssified in some special status leads to them not being integrated into their departments and In the fourth of a five-part series, Senior Staff thus not into the larger community, according to the Reporter Don Reimer looks at the report of report. As a solution to thisproblem the report C.O.U.L.'s subcommittee on coeducation. suggests that a "concerted effort be made to recruit full-time tenure tract female faculty." STUDENT ACCEPTS gift certificate frorq a "Carney Card" 11 scarcity of female administrators was viewed as
The final report of the COUL-subco!Jlmittee on co­
yesterday. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
education deals with five major topics: faculty the fourth problem. The committee felt that the women; minority women; womens' _athletics.: ..solution to this problem would be found along with 


with strategy. Klingenberger said that could help the coed situation. We were really She noted that there are few women at higher ranks that all Indiana students should get pressed for time, but I was pleased with the report as and pointed out that it is "difficult for women to reach together and discuss the issue with a whole." the higher ranks because they are not accelerated asThe possibility of lowering the their representatives on a per­quickly and the incentives to stay are not as strong soIndiana drinking age to 18 was 
sonal basis. Faculty Women they leave."
discussed Monday by 1 State 
He said that Bodine also would The second major section of the subcommittee onRepresentative Richard Bodine, not rule out the possibility of The first topic explored by the sub-eommittee was coeducation'!· report investigates the problems of
Student Body President Ed Byrne, compromises such as allowing 18 'faculty women', an area earlier explored by Com­minority women on the Notre Dame campus.
and representatives of the Notre year-olds to purchase 3.2 beer, or mittee W of the American Association of University Social and cultural differences encountered atDame Student Lobby Commission. 
permitting 19 year-olds to buy beer Professors. Notre Dame by minority women were cited by theBodine met with Byrne, Tom Black and wine. 
report as the central problem for these women.
and Jerry Klingenberger in his "It's a matter of doing your According to the report there are presently only 64 "Though much of the problem seems to depend on theMishawaka office. 
homework. We think we have at female faculty members, 25 of whom are either individual's character the fact remains that the at­Bodine seemed receptive to the this point," Klingenberger said. He library personnel or professional specialists, not mosphere is not conducive to healthy social activitiesstudents' ideas, Klingenberger also felt that discussing the issue really in "visible contact positions." The report which appeal to minority groups," stated the report.
reported, but the legislator made prior to the opening of the 
states that the remaining 39 female faculty members 
no firm commitment on the issue. legislative session may add "cannot be expected to serve as role models to a The report concluded that "only by making theBodine said he will consider strength to the lobby. 
female undergraduate population of 1,132." community more conducive and supportive ofsponsoring a bill lowering the Students across Indiana have not minority needs will we make significant gains indrinking age during the next 
yet united into one group. The Four problems were identified by the AAUP minority enrollment. 
legislative session, which begins in 
student lobby commission at Notre committee, all of which the COUL committeeOctober. Dame was formulated when Byrne recognized. The first problem concerning faculty
A similar bill was introduced in took office last spring. Currently women appears to be a tendency "to hire women and Women's Sportsthe legislature last year by the group is working through the then let them go after a short time." Marilyn Schultz. The bill died in Indiana Students Association. Both Women's sports, the third general topic examined the House Public Policy Com­the ND commission and the ISA "Notre Dame must make an effort to attract by the COUL committee, is an area in which the mittee before a vote was taken. hope to gain various experts' women to the faculty who will wish to stay and then University has "got to wake up" according to com­The committee is headed by backing and testimony before the make the position attractive enough that they will mittee member Moore. 
Chester F. Bodis of Lake County. state legislature. stay," states the report. (continued on page 5) student services and liv_ipg quarters; and attitudes toward coeducation.
Unity might lower "Since the start o~ coeducation people have talked about problems with the new situation," said
drinking age to 18 
chairperson Ellen Syburg, "and by Jim Commyn Bodine did offer the students we wanted to see if there was some Staff Reporter some suggestions, and some aid structural change in the institution 
-
Professor Carole Moore com­-
mented that, "there seemed to be a
==: ---= -­
--.--revolving door policy" with
-r___•__._... ­
-.. -.. .. r--respect to female faculty mem­bers, because they are generally here only for 2 or 3 years. 


~Thursday, ~ptember 11, 1975
the obse_r.v~r 

nounced by Rev: James T. Burt­said Chau is working in the general talent which we can use in the 

chaell, C.S.C., Univ~rsity provost. area of advanced student ad­administrative functions of this I"'"'"'"'"'"...""'""'""'"'""""'""'""""~ The appointment is effective missions and on special projects office. 
I I
immediately · 
Chau was rector of the University of Hue in South Viet­nam from 1969 until he left the country in April 1975 just before 
I SENIOR ~ 

the fall o_f Saigon. 

Educated in England and the only 1!, mile Southeast of I I United States, Chau received his campus 1 bachelor's and master's degrees in (across from Kentucky I I English literature from the Fried Chicken an!l the University of Cambridge and his Linebacker) FOR doctorate in English literature and MEN language from the University of 
Chica~o. 


i CLASS I
In l967, he became the first director of higher education under I I Vietnam's Ministry of Education, 
~ I
responsible for coordinating in­stitutional development, programs 
I I
and curricula of all post-secondary institutions in the country. Sub­
NEED TRANSPORTATION? 
sequently, he served as technical assistant to the Ministry of 
Fof less than $1000 you can pick from 

I I PICNIC !I
Education and as chairman of the English Departmenf at the 
a selection of over 50 cars and trucks. 
University of Saigon. 

I I
Also top -quality pre-owned top-quality
Chau has served on the gover­
ning board of the Regional In­
I I 
stitute of Higher Education and 
cars along with the remainder of the
Development, Singapore, and as 
I TOMORROW 1 
president of the Association of Southeast Asian Institutions of 
1975 inventory at tremendou$SAVINGS 
~ I 
Higher Learning. From 197~ to 
I 4:00 -8:00 p.m. I
See me, Craig Bernard, at
1975, he was advisor to the Minister 
of Education on Southeast Asian 
I I
Ministers of Education 
Gates Chevrolet in South Bend 
Organization affair.!_ and to the 
I I 
or call 237-4015 
~ I
I I
~:z:::=:=='!s=~==:~=::=~ 

~ CLUBHOUSE -ST. MARY'S I 
~ (NEAR HOLY CROSS HALL} I
BEGINNING EPT. 1 

II I
tGREYHOUND 
NO CAMPUS. ' I MUSIC BY ~ BUS SERVICE TO CHICAGO: I -·SMITH AND COMPANY I FRI. t I I 
LEAVES -MAIN CIRCLE 4:45 om 
ARRIVE_S-CHICAGO 6:50pm II NOTRE DAME-ST. MARY'SDEPARTURE -CHICAGO 7:15 pm ••II s·ENIOR CLASS OFFICERS
ARRIVAL-NO CIRCLE 9:20pm tI 
-O~jJifQ. ___._+CJ'.LL'K>~_!~UI I ---~--~-----....,..,.,.IMIItlll... 
.. t.-. 

I • • , t • t II • ; • • ~ '" l · • 'II • ~ • 

warld briefs 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) -Armed National Guardsmen and 
police continued to ride Louisville school buses Wednesday, .although there had been few reports of violence directed at the buses. Rioting occurred last weekend near three schools in the south and southwest parts of Jefferson County. 
Gov. Julian Carroll has said he hopes to send the Guard home 
soon, but Louisville Mayor Harvey Sloane has asked that the troops 
remain through this weekend. 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina (AP) -Political violence caused new deaths and disorder Wednesday, and a top Peronist party official bolstered reports that President Isabel Peron plans to leave power temporarily for health reasons. 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) -The Army court-martial conviction of William L. Calley Jr. for the murder of 22 Vietnamese civilians at My Lai was reinstated by a federal appeals court Wednesday. 
The 8-5 decision by the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals rejected the defense contention, upheld in lower courts, that publicity had made Calley immune to trial. The ruling delalt with legal issues remaining in the case. 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) -Lynette "Squeaky" Fromme, a disciple of convicted mass murderer Charles Manson, was indicted Wednesday on a federal charge of attempting to assassinate President Ford. 
The indictment made no mention of a conspiracy, but U.S. Atty. Dwayne Keyes said later he had not ruled out the possibility a conspiracy existed. 
The indictment specifically said Miss Fromme "did knowingly and wilfully attempt to kill Gerald R. Ford, the President of the United States of America." 
Dr. Chau appointed to post 
The appointment of Dr. Le Vietnam National cOmmission for assigned to the office. "Dr. Chau is Thanh Minh Chau (cho) as UNESCO. one of the outstanding members of assistant to the vice president for the Southeast Asian academic • advanced studies at the University Dr. Robert E. Gordon, vice community," Gordon said. "He of Notre . Dame · has been an­president for advanced stucpes, brings a tremendous amount of 
futoring in South Bend 

Volunteer prograzn to resuzne 
by Brian Clancy Catherine Strong, a SMC senior 
take place: September 16 at the
Staff Reporter said that most people join, " ...~ 
SMC Dining Hall and ND activities 
an effort to get .outside of the 
night; September 17 at the South 
Neighborhood Study Help, the school community and help others. 
Dining Hall; and September 18 at 
largest volunteer program in the It gives you a good feeling to know 
the North Dining Hall. All 
Notre Dame-St. Mary's com­that you are needed." She added 
recruiting will be during the 
munity, will begin tutoring in the "Most everyone enjoys working evening meal. 

South Bend area, September 24. with the students, although some The program, which attracted 270 get frustrated when they can't see volunteers last semester, helps progress. Nonetheless the elementary school students master satisfaction when the p~gress reading and math skills as weU as becomes evident · more than additional class assignments. compensates for the temporary 
frustration." The program, coordinated by 
D.C. Nokes and Tom Sheffield of "You will meet a lot of people Notre Dame, and Mary Nowalk and also get a much .needed break and Eileen Flanagan of St. Mary's, from schoolwork, a break which serves 11 elementary schools and will put you in the right ·fram~ of the boy's club of South Bend. mind for studying when you get Volunteers, who tutor one or two home," Strong said. evening a; week, are transported to and from tutoring assignments on buses leaving from the N.D. circle and LeMans hall 15 minutes before sessions. 
In addition to .tutoring the children, the volunteers take them on outings including a picnic, an ice skating party and a Notre Dame athletic event. In this way, they are better able to get the students to open up to them. 
CAPRI LIQUOR STORE 
At the corner of ~ronwood and Ed ison (Rear of 
On drinking, parietals 
Roemer explains policies 

DEAN ROEMER that persona maturity is the key to his approach in handling drinking on campus. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
by John Shaughnessy Staff Reporter 
Dr. James Roemer, Dean of Students, spoke in the Howard Hall chapel last night on the university's policies concerning alcohol and parietals. 
Although the passage of the Faccenda bill limits the University's liability in matters relating to state drinking laws,: Roemer stated, "We are still living under the rules and regulations that existed last year. Alcohol may be consumed by occupants in their private rooms. One major difference though, is that the university will no longer confront individuals concerning underage purchase of drinking of alcohol." 
"This new position doesn't relieve students of their responsibility with the state of Indiana. If a person is caught in violation of the law, that's his problem. The University will not invovle itself in such cases. It is a matter of personal maturity in adherence to the state's rules." 
Charis1natics Prayer Meeting gives praise and glory to God 
The lights were dim and the room was shrouded in silence as the shadowy silhouettes slowly rose from their seats and stood close to one another in a semi­circle. Out of the hushed silence grew a murmur or low voices uttering sounds in unintelligible tongues, which rose in crescendo which only nothingness occupied. Gradually the incoherent mut­tering acquiesced to a joyous hymn of praise to the Lord. 
The first Charismatics Prayer Meeting of the academic year took place Tuesday night on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. Approximately sixty people in­cluding student, brothers, priest, to God. "Too many people think of prayer only as a means to thank or to ask God for something. Too often they forget about prayer when it comes down to simply offering praise and adoration to God." 
O'Connor has been with the group here at Notre Dame since it was founded in 1967. Although he claims he is not the leader of the 
group, he does admit to being its oldest member. Throughout the course of the prayer meeting, O'Connor acts as a type of

observer insiahl: 
moderator in guiding the group through its various stages of 
=:::;::;;;;;;;;;::;;;:;;;;;;::;;;::::;:;;;;;;;;;;~=~~~~~-·----­
until the air was filled with an eerie, almost unearthly music. 
Vague outlines of arms reached out and slowly raised themselves, palms facing upwards in an adulatory manner. Other hands werelextended, their fingers slowly opening and closing into their palms, ' grasping at something and townspeople gathered together in a celebraLion of friendship, love and peace to "praise God and proclaim Jesus as Lord." 
The principal purpose of a prayer meeting, according to Father Edward O'Connor, the oldest member of the crowd, is to give praise to His name and glory Roemer views this element of 
maturity as the key to the next step 
in the use of alcohol in areas 
outside the room. He has 
presented a proposal to rectors 
which would allow each hall to 
determine its own policy. The hall 
members would be responsible for 
each other, even to the extent of 
enforcing disciplinary guidelines. 
In major cases, the Dean of 
Students would still have the final 
judgement, Roemer stated. 

"I'm inclined to think some kind 
of plan, similar to my hall
r 

proposal, can be passed. The main 
objective is to place the respon­
siblity where it ought to be-with 
the student. Since I first made my 
proposal on Monday, I haven't 
received any negative input from 
the administration. We'll have to 
wait and see what happens at the 
first SLC meeting," the dean 
continued. 

Presently, the Student Life Council (SLC) is still in the process of determining its membership. Student elections will not be held until September 23. Therefore, it doesn't seem likely that the SLC will • discuss until the end of the month at the earliest. 
Although alcohol rules could be slackened even further, no change is seen in pre-marital sexual regulations, according to Roemer. "In this institution, with its Du Lac 
(continued on page 7) 
Thursd•y, September 11, 1975 
the observer 
3 

HOKEY'S CAP 'N CORK UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT NOW SERVING SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST GLASS OF BEER 
24 oz. -60¢ 6-1 0 om 
4 PIECES OF FRIED CHICKEN 99¢ 
THE POSTER PLACE 
100 11 x 17 POSTERS only $1 0.00 
INSTY PRINTS 
203 N. MAIN ST. 
SOUTH BEND 289-6977 


Foreign Car Parts Co·. 
(!)Parts & accessories for imported car R.,1:::, for all makes at lowest prices. 
Distributor 
'*~*********************** 
~·For N D Students, Faculty & Staff 10 * * percent discount with I D & pur-~ :chase of $10 or more. *' 
************************. 
21 5 Dixie Way N Roseland' So. Bend 





ATTENTION! ! 
Students who were over­seas last year can pick up their 1975 Domes in Dome office 

TONIGHT 
8 p.m. -10 p.m. 

FM CONVERTERS, SCANNERS, CB RADIOS, CAR STEREOS, RECEIVERS, AMPS, TURNTABLES, SPEAKERS 
INSTALLATION-SERVICE 
I 
· r ' I I 
service. 

The prayer meeting commences with a hymn, which is followed by a short break during which the members intermingle to exchange welcomes and make new acquaintances within the group. 
(continued on page 6) 
It  The Observer an independent student newspaper Founded November 3, 1966 Terry Keeney .:ditor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Manager EDITORIAL BOARD AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Fred Graver. Executive Editor; Jim Eder, Editorial Editor KPn Girouard, News Editor; Pat :~anifin, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor K.-n Bradford. Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; TornO' Neil. Features Editor Lhris S111ilh, Photo Editor Editori~ls: 18)-8661 . N~ws: 2::,:81:;..:·1~7.:.,:15:..._~___:::B::,:u•::;:in:;,~'::.":..,:l;::8.:.:1·:.;.74:.:,7.:_1--------! Thursday, SQptember 11, 1975  


lan~shats~~~~~~~~~~ 
The Mother's Crusade t:any prascia 

Beacon HiI I 
iiiiiiiiliiiillliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii art bu c hwaIll 
The PTA seems different lately. Having put aside the toys of its youth, the old Mothers' Club ia playing with the big kids now., an~ it isn't clear who'll win. 
Admittedly, it's been building up for some time -the nasty slogans, the boycotts, the emotional coffee klatches. But the spectacle of tock­throwing PTA mothers has still taken many by surprise. Thi~ month's busing controversy ha~ apparently turned loose an entire generation of housewives aching to trade pinochle for guerilla combat. 
So there they are --white suburban mothers-clubbers hurling bricks at police and shouting obscenities. More than a question of decorum (what wouldn't you say in front of your mother?) the issue is whether the guerilla housewives are justified in using race riots to subvert the justice system. 
Mothers, it seems have learned somethifli about tantrums. They work. 
Even if they fail, however, the Boston and Louisville rioters will 
• have _scored a cr~cial gain for ~~ncan r~ce relations. The PTA militants :OV~ at least ha~e p~ven that ~c.tviltzed ll!ld I.ITational behavtor 1~ not pecultar to, ~Y race or eco~om~c class. Wasn t 1t other ~ple s ~olence,. ~fter all, from which whtte families were sup­posed to be running awav? 
The so-ealled "white flight", in fact, once seemed a hopeless 
..._ the observer ..........., 
Night Editor: Val Zurblls Asst. Night Editor: Bob Brink Layout: Bob Massa, Bob Pliler, Jim Swartz, Larry Carcare, Liz Donovan, John Calcutt, ,Jim Stevens 
. Day Editor: Mary Reher Copy Ruder: Bob Mader, Ker Bradford 
$ports: Bill Brink Typists: H. Halle, T. Harlan, K. Hlnks, N.VIII, M. McCarthy Compugraphlc: Car-Olina 
Night Controller: D. Rust 
security in an expensive citadel The strange part,-though, is that fortified against reality. But to an the Anti-Busing Army consists important extent it worked. When mainly of what used to be the Law the Supreme Court made suburbs and Order Crusade. The same impregnable to the Trojan Horse\ rioters who this week were putting of busing, most hope of real officers in the hospital were once 
• desegregation was over. selling cupcakes· for the 
1 Now in the few placeslike South Policemens' Association. Yet, Boston where integration within undisturbed the the in-ci~ies would be meaningful, b~es I conisistency,they press on. 
will have to roll over marchmg .hosts of frenzied matrons. 
p.0.
boX q 

N D 
C

Q-Qp 
Dear Edttor: 

The reference to the Notre Dame COOP in your September 5 ~torial accurately evaluates the current situation. A lack of response to the first registration drive has resulted in a delay in the coop's opening. 
A "cooperative requires a group of people combining their efforts to accomplish a desired purpose. No 
' single person can successfully {)perate a cooperative, it takes a concerned group to make a coop run efficiently. 
Several problems must still be .resolved before the coop becom~ ,a reality, if ~deed it ever does 
retreat. It was an attempt to buy I become a reabty. But most of the 
' · 
problems can be solved,' if con­cerned off-e~mpus students jointhe cooperative movement. Within the next two weeks a final· registration drive will begin. Hopefully the students of Notre Dame will show enough Interest in the co-op to insure its success. 
In the end, student interest will 
determine the future of our coop. I 
hope th0$e who .are interested will 
join the .co-op and offer their help 
in its initial stage by calling 7668 
and leaving their name with the . receptionist. 
r.. Flilprald S...ea&-B.ty Vkle-PresW.t 
In any case, .they are lib.dy to 
1

; emerge heroic. Courting a strange kind of martydom, marchers already appear satisfied with just venting their frustrations and bruising the police. In a sophisticated version of tantrum theory , rioters seem to believe that if they don't get their way, they will at least have made everyone else miserable. But the point is that the judicial process was not intended to be influenced by loud-mouthed protesters of whatever race. If the rioters win _ if the government bows to white isolationsim -it will be a defeat not only for integration but for the justice system as a whole. 
· Nor will it do the children any good. Unless the militia mothers are prepared to prove that van· dalism and obscenity are useful political tOols -and that children should imitate them -they had better go home and start ex­plainmg. 
r 0 . h h'ldre .
1

· r per aps c . n should fmd
8

st;~. to keep thetr parents off the , ,-.-~--------­
All letters to the editor should ~e sent to The Observer, Editorial Editor, Post Offflce [Box Q or brought to the office of frhe Observer located on the top floor of the LAFortune Student Center. 
Only letters with names anc' addresses will be considered for print. Slgnatores will be. ~lthhelfd upon request, but ~lgned letters will be given rrlorlty. 
All letters are subject to editing for length and taste, and' ~hould be concise as possible., 
u 

WASHINGTON-The nice thing about the TV show Beacon Hill which is the American version of 
"Upstairs,  Downstairs,"  is  that  
you can characters.  identify  with  the  

My wife and I were watching this story of an Irish Boston family in 1920 with six servants, and it was interesting how we differed on whom we identified with. 
I seemed to be sympathetic with the people who lived upstairs--the Lassiter family. But my wife was on the servants' side. 
"Why are you on their side?" I demanded. 
"Because they seem to have to do the things I do. Serve the break­fast, make the beds, drive the car, clean the silver and be sure the master of the house is happy. I understand them. They're my people." 
"Nonsense," I said. "If I'm the master of the house, then you're the mistress. You shouldn't worry about servants' problems. They seem very happy in their work." 
"I may be the mistress of the house, but I also happen to be the servant. In fact, I'm more servant than mistress. If you gave me six live-in help I might not identify so much with the people in thekit­chen." 
"Ah, but that's the secret of Beacon Hill," I said. "They are taking women like yourself into a fantasy land of butlers, maids and chauffeurs, so you can dream of a life you'll never have. If you start worrying about the servants, all the fun will go out of it. 
"You must pretend you're Mrs. Lassiter who can have breakfast in bed, a secretary to type her mail, a daughter to run the house and a staff to give a party for 60 people withe~ 4 hours' notice. For an hour CBS expects the American woman to forget her cares and make believe she is mar-ried to a rich, powerful, loving man who can pick up the phone and solve any per· sonal or domestic problem at the drop of a hat." 
My wife said, "I honestly try to pretend. But then I see all those dishes in the kitchen after the 
party dnd I say to myself, 'My God, I better wash them tonight, or I'll have to do them in the morning.' " "But that's wrong," I said. "You 
. mustn't worry about th~ dishes after a party. When I watch the show, I don't give the Lassiter dishes a second thought.'' 
"You don't give your own dishes a second thought, either " she replied. ' 
"Now let's not get off the sub­ject," I warned. "Millions of dollars were spent to make Americans forget their dirty dishes. Try to imagine yourself in the bedroom. It's 10 o'clock in the morning and you've just finished breakfast. The upstairs maid comes in and asks you which dress you would like to wear. The butler knocks ?n the door and informs you that Bnan, the chauffeur is at at your disposal for the d~y. Your secretary asks you if you would like her to make a reservation for you at the Copely Plaza for lunch." 
"I can't go," my wife said. "Why can't you go?" "Because I have to wait for the 
plumber. He promised to come two days ago, and he still ·hasn't' shown up," she said. 
"On Beacon Hill the mistress doesn't have to wait for the plumber! She doesn't even have to call t~e plumber. 'She has people to do It. If you start worrying about when the plumber comes, you'll never get with the show." 
"I don't think I ever will " she 
: admitted. "You know something? I think the program only appeals to men. Most American husbands are like Mr. Lassiter. They have a cook, a maid, a butler, and a handyman and a chauffeur. She's called a wife. 
"The American woman, on the other hand, has nothing in common with Mrs. Lassiter. The only one in the whole show she understands is the housekeeper. Anything that goes on upstairs on Beacon Hill is pure science ' fiction. I'll watch the show with you, but I'm still rooting for the people in the kitchen.'' 
I was shocked and said so. "You're a traitor to your class." 


cansider this Glorious Tradition 
----------·
pat kearns 
Only Ne"': Year's Eve surpasses the first day of the semester in the area of Irresolute resolutions. Be that as it may, let us consider one aspect of our life here at Notre Dame which deserves firm resolve. That is, the preservation of the traditional Notre Dame home football weekend. 
No ,doubt· we are all willing, and perhaps anxious, to drink to that. In fact! we usually ~o • several times before every rally, and many more tlmes after, nght up till the moment we hit the sack in the wee mo~ning hours. on Sund!i:r· But, that is precisely the point. We are lettmg the glorlOUS tradition of Notre Dame slip away. 
Of course, something cannot be lost unless it is first possessed. And there are those who deny Notre Dame ever had any glorious tradition.anyway. After all, the "Wall Street Journal" proclaimed to all of 1ts readers last year that Catholic Notre Dame was for­tunately being transformed into "Intellectual " Notre Dame (absurd opposites). A transition surely applauded by St. Thomas Aquinas! And Football Notre Dame is maturing into Largest College Library in the World Notre Dame. Just the change Knute has been praying for! 
Then again, the "Wall Street Journal" may not be our editiorial model. The more popular reputation of Notre Dame may be very acceptable to us. Well, if this is the case, then now is a good time to see h~w well this reputation has been upheld in the past few years. More •r:nportantly still, how well will it be maintained this year? 
Spectftcally, we need to feel a certain responsibility for the tone on this campus, especially\ on home football weekends when we host so many guests. Somehow, we have to find better measures for the success of these weekends. The amount of alcohol consumed and ~e number _of girls passed up the stands just do not make it. Certainly l~e tailgate party is one of the fine traditions here~t the D~~e .. B~t tf personat physical satisfaction comes to replace the sp!r•.t of ~e are _Notre Dame", then the band might as well quit drdbng thetr routmes to perfection and the football squad ought to scoff at the suggestion of team effort. 
At Notre Dame? No, Not at Notre Dame. 

._...•.. ·rw~ 

Thur5«Yy, September 11, 1975 
the observer 
C.O.U.L. probes coeducational life at ND 
to finance sports such as fencing reads, and recommends the in­ween males and females would be sideration be given to the idea. (continued /rom page l) and tennis oq a varsity level." _ stallment of an on-campus alleviated." states the reoort. "Coed housing would not be 
PresenUy there are no varsity Syburg said that sports was the specialist as the solution to this Though the report does not deal attractive for everyone, however, I sports for women and the report area in which the trustees were problem. If this measure should extensively with coeducational think that it would create a more points to a lack of financial support most interested and pointed out prove to be impractical, "a system dormitory plans, it states that the relaxed atmosphere on campus," from the University as the chief that because sports are very im­should be initiated to guarantee committee does enthusiastically stated Moore, "and the op­reason for this void. "From portant at Notre Dame the en­any female student an ap­endorsP. roeducational dormitories portunity should be there for those 
" talking with athletic ad­trance of women into this area has pointement with a South Bend ministrators, female coaches, and created "real tension." gynecologist within forty-eight female athletes, the committee "Sports at Notre Dame ·have hours." realized that Notre Dame has not traditionally been a very "Traditional prejudices held by made a sincere financial or masculine activity and the change counselors towards women in 

psychological commitment to to feminine participation and professsional endeavors" must be women's athletics," states the acceptance has created the ten­overcome if the University career report. sion," Syburg explained. counseling and placement services "Where the money has gone," are to be conducive to the needs of 
Student Services and Housing
said Moore, "is into club sports." womenJ according to the report Moore stated that the amount of In recent years the question of money give to these clubs is in­The report found "general housing has caused many hostile sufficient to allow them to compete feelings of discontent and feelings to arise between men and with varsity teams from other skepticism about student services women of the campus and the root schools. and housing, the fourth major topic of this problem, the committee 
While emphasizing that she of their investigation, and named feels, lies in a lack of long range 
certainly does not discourage three areas in which changes are housing plans. sports on the club level, Moore felt needed : the infirmary, career "If the student community was that they did not fulfill the need of counseling and placement, and aware of housing plans two or all Notre Dame women. "These livin~ quarters. three years in advance, instead of sports do not answer the needs of "The infirmary is ineffective major housing decisions being women who want to compete at a and insensitive in dealing with made in January each year and higher level," she commented, women and their specific medical causing chaotic reactions, much of "and it would not be that expensive problems needs " the re rt the anxiet and com titian bet-
anc;l url{es a ious" con-stu .tltl · " 
BOOK EXCHANGE 

PICK~UP SCH.EDULE 
LAST DAY!!! 
TODAY· 1·2 pm ENTER THRU SOUTH STAIRWELL 
looks not picked up by 2:00p.m. 
Thursday, Sept. 11 will become 
property of -the Student Union. 
The uncompromising ones. 
, 2 3 y 5 5 7 B -2 s 
OFF ON PRGM RUN 
FIX SCI ENG 
t 
p ~( 

SST BST GTO 0 
i s E-
x~y R+ STO RCL !l+ 
,_,If
'I• 
CLEAR 

PREFIX PRGM REG STK 
ENTER+ CHS EEX CLX 
I nt:n nAO C. ItO 

X<y In log •R
•• • II II x~y sln cos tan 
x~y INT a yx
•••• •. 
x:y •H.MS LAST x PAUSE 
~ H8Wl...TT• P.-.Of<A .. O Qe 
The Hewlett-Packard HP-25 Scientific Programmable $t9s.oo· 

The calculations you face require no less. 
Today, even so-called "non-technical" courses It's display is fully fonnatted, so you can choose Both the HP-21 and HP-25 are almost 
(psych, soc, bus ad, to name 3) require a vari-· between fixed decimal and scientific notation. certainly on displa/'at your bookstore. If not, ety of technical calculations-complicated cal­Our HP-25 does all 'that-and much, much call us, toll-free, at 800-538-79:22 (in Calif. culations that become a whole lot easier when more. It's programmable, which means it can 800-662-9862) for the name of an HP dealer you have a powerful pocket calculator. solve automatically the countless repetitive near you. I 
Not surprisingly, there are quite a few such problems every science and engineering student calculators around, but ours stand apart, and faces. ahead. We started it all when we introduced the With an HP-25, you enter the keystrokes



, HEWLETTIII'ACKARD 
wdrld's first scientific p.ocket calculator back in necessary to solve the problem only once. 1972, and we've shown the way ever since. Thereafter, you just enter the variables and Sales and service from 172 offices in 65 countries. The calculators you see here are our newest, press the Run/Stop key for an almost instant Dept. 6588, 19310 Pruneridge Aven1,1e, Cupertino, CA.95014 the first of our second generation. Both offeryou answer accurate to 10 digits. 
technology you probably won't find in compet­Before you invest in a lesser machine, by all itive calculators for some time to come, if ever. means do two things: ask your instructors Our HP-21 perfonns all arithmetic, log and about the calculations their courses require; and 
61!/18

trig calculations, including rectangular/polar see for yourself how effortlessly our calculators 
•Suggested· ~tail price, excludins applicable ttate and local taxes­. conversions and common antilog evaluations. handle them. Continental U.S., Al~ska A Hawaii. 

~---­

Thursday, September~ ~1, 1975
the observer 



Charismatics praise God 
I

(continued from page 3) municates to you his love." the charismatic prayer meetings." 
After the testimonials, there is When questioned as to the origin 
After a second hymn, the group usually a short reading from the of the name "Charismatics," Br. listens to the testimonials of other Bible, followed by a period of silent John Lavelle replied, "The word members as they relate their prayer, during which each person stems from 'charism,' meaningexperiences as to how they becomes lost in his own reverie of 'gift,' which refers to the gift of renewed and strengthened their adulatiQn to the Lord. faith granted by the Holy Spirit."
faith in Jesus. 
It is at this point of the meeting After the silent prayer, there are 
-;,Religion is not just a set of rules when the incredulous "speaking in a few closing words urging all to go that you must follow, but rather an tonguts" occurs. out and discover how real God is intimate relationship with Jesus "Speaking in tongues," ex­and to "get in touch with God." A Christ," explained one of the plained O'Connor, "is a gift from final hymn closes the meeting with witnesses. "Before I began the Holy Spirit. It does not mean an enthusiastic round of foot­
coming to these meetings, I didn't that you are speaking in another stomping, hand-clapping really know anything about faith or language, but that your adoration "Alleluias! " God or love. It was just automatic, of God has so far surpassed that The Charismatics Prayer and I was empty." which can be expressed in human Meetings is a movement occurring 
·-Another related, "When you terms that the Holy Spirit descends all oyer the world. In some cities think you don't need the Lord, you upon you and you are able to ex­there are meetings which are have a lot of pride. It's breaking press your ultimate adoration in a attended weekly by 5,1)® or more. this first I barrier that's the language which goes beyond the The meetings may vary to a toughest. But once you give in, and human realm." degree between areas, but the you yield to the Lord, the Holy He added, "Not everyone is general format is basically the 
Spirit opens you up. The Lord granted the gift of tongues. Not same. At some meetings rituals of 
touches your heart and com-even after many years of attending healing and prophecy are prac­tices, along with exercises in character renewal.
Co-ex committees merge 
Peopie become involved with the Charismatics for different
reopen· the Freshman Colloquium
by Jill Truitt reasons. Lavelle was skeptical of 
course at Notre Dame to St.
Staff Reporter the group when it first started 
Mary's freshmen. The colloquium meeting at Notre Dame eighthas been closed to St. Mary's years ago.
St. Mary's and Notre Dame 
students for five years, Corpora
<SMAND) and the Co-exchange said.
Committee, two groups formed 
Anyone with s)ligestions for
last year to study the relationship 
activities between the two schools
between the two campuses, have 
is urged to call Corpora at 3111 or
merged, ·Co-exchange Com­
Patty Pavlick, co-ex commissioner 
missioner Joe Corpora said 
at SMC, at 4543.

yesterday. 
Si~ter John Miriam Jones, assistant to the provost, organized SMAND last fall. The council is composed of 10 women, one from each women's dorm at St. Mary's and Notre Dame. 
by Cathy Cannon Staff Reporter
"It's purpose is to seek a better understanding of the history and 
The spirit of Notre Dame peptraditions of each school and to rallies doesn't just appear. It is the 
resolve any ill-wilJior ;competitive result of a lot of work by the Pepfeelings between them", Jones Rally committee. said. Paul Reis, chairman of the 
committee, said rally flanningThe Co-exchange Committee begins long before footbal season. was organized last May for the The committee reserves Stepan same purpose. It jncludes both Center in the spring for the fall men and women and presently has rallies, he said. The committee 
must also make sure that speakers 
35 members. 
wiH appear at the events.
Corpora, Jones, Stevie Wernig, 
The head coach and two co­
St. Mary's Vice-president of 
captains traditionally appear
Student Affairs, and Joan 
before the first game. The coaches 
McDermott, SMC Student body 
and team then select which players 
president decided to merge the two 
will appear at later rallies.
committees during a meeting 
Roger Valdiserri. snorts in-
yesterday morning. 
"The newly merged committee will serve as a catalystic group to get other people moving and to make suggestions to other existing commissions on both campuses," Corpora said. fmite \torld," according to AI
Collections for the Third World
Each hall is now allowed co-ex Sondej, drive organizer.
Development will resume this
meal tickets every four days in­Sondej will be stationed at the
semester, beginning tomorrow at
stead of every twelve. Corpora entrance to the E and F lines of the
the dining halls at Notre Daine and 
feels the new distribution north dining hall during lunches
St. Mary's.

prodedure will strengthen the and at the south dining hall en­relationship between the two Oonations will be forwarded to trance during supper. 
STILL COMING! WITH THE STUDENT IN MIND 
LITERS OF BEER AND 
schools. several relief agencies, including Greg Gramelspacher will collect Corpora said the Senior ClaSSt Catholic Relief sServices, CARE, at the LeMans Hall entrance to the Picnic scheduled for tomorrow·\ is OxFAM, Church World Services St. Mary's dining hall during also a positive move for better and UNICEF. lunches and at the McCandless relations. He and the new com­"The money will be used for the entrance to the dining hall during mittee are presently worl~ing to development of social equality i.r_l a suppers. D IN MON. OCT. '20th PERSON 8:00 p.m., ~~rl NOTRE DAME ACC TICKET SALES START THIS SATURDAY SEPT. TICKET PRICES 13th AT THE ACC BOX OFFICE 9 AM TO 5 PM RONT STAGE CHAIR SEATS s7.50 AND THE STUDENT RONT STAGE BLEACHERS UNION TICKET OFFICE AT 9 AM.IMIT 1 0 TICKETS PER PURCHASE  ALL CLUBS AND RGANIZA TION WHO WISH TO BE PART OF ACTIVITIES NIGHT AND WHO WERE NOT PRESENT AT THE PRELIMINARY MEETING, PLEASE CALL EITHER: ARRY BAINBRIDGE 3288 JODIE KORTH 1333  


Thursday, September 11, 1975 
th~ observer 
7 

Campaign rules for SLC elections to be explain~d 
Students interested in running for the Student Life Council (SLC) must meet tonight with the Election Committee to be briefecl on campaign regualtions. 
The meeting is scheduled for 7 
p.m. in the Student Government offices in LaFortune Student Center. 
Candidates may run in one of three election districts: The North Quad, The South Quad and Off­Campus. The number of elected student seats on the SLC was reduced from six last year. 
In addition to the students elected to the SLC the Student Body President and Vice President serve ex -()fficio. 
SLC candidates must submit petitions with 100 signatures to Student Government next Tuesday. Campaigning will begin the following day and will end on election day,· September 23. If necessary, run-()ff elections will be held on September 25. 
The SLC is a tripartite body of students, faculty and ad­ministrators chartered by the board of trustees to legislate on matters ·of student affairs. The SLC has debated such questions as the judicial code, parietals and the sexuality code. 
Roemer explains 
drinking policies 
(continued from page 3) heritage, sex outside of marriage isn't proper,"Roemer said. "As to the handling of specific cases, I will need further explicit direction in certain areas so I can develop a consistent policy. I have talked with other administrators on this issue but no adequate definition has been supplied. I don't know if it will ever be clear. Each case will have to stand on its own." "I would like to throw a challenge at the student," Roemer added. "Although the issue:; we have discussed are crucial'qtopics, there are other things .-;side drinking, sexand classes. Maybe we can get into more sensitive areas so when we look back we can stress the positive t>lements of our experience here." "By getting involved in different activities such as CIL..and the Neighborhood Self-Help program we can form more meaningful relationships with people giving them something to relate to in their 
lives. Some of the best friendships are developed through these means." 
WANTED 

Need 5 tickets for Northwestern. Call Mike, 288-0088. 
Roommate wanted for N.D. apartments. Call 281-6533. 
Need 2 Michigan State tickets. Call Mike 1438. 
Need ride to Madison and back week-end of Sept. 19. Call 4672. 
Wanted: Two tickets for B.C. game. Call 272-5133. 
Wanted: 4 tlx for Pitt. Call Jack 3597. 
Need 2 GA tlx for MSU or Georgia Tech. Call Bob. 1214. 
Wanted: 2 GA fix for any home game. Call Jim 6802. 
Wanted: 2 Boston College Tickets. Call John, 8433. 
Need B.C. tickets. Mike, 1905 after 11 p.m. 
Need 2 Purdue Tlx's. Call Mike, 8106. 
Need one housemate. Excellent condition, newly remodeled. S75 per month, incl. utilities. Phone 287-3463. 
Wanted: Anyone who can board my St. Bernard for the school year, protector for your house. Dog Is 1 year old. Will pay S20 a month. Phone 272-8073 after 8 p.m. 
Need 2 general admission So. Cal. fix. Mary, 6680. 
Need one used bicycle. Call Bill at 7471 or 288-4217. 

prRE-VOU-iNTERiST~iN~-----, 
I II  & ~  A SPECIAL GROUP OF CONCERNED PEOPLE CARE FOR THE ELDERLY  
I  ~  
I  tt..J  
I  s  

~~ 
•"'
•<ft!·~ 
-1<(\0~ A
l
I -16~_..,~;;o I ~ ~.,~(' ••• ()~~)>~ ~4
4-tr 

FACULTY-STUDENT INVOLVEMENT 
Council for the International Lay Apostolate 



IRST GENERAL MEETING SUNDAY SEPT 14, 1975 7:00p.m. WASH. HALL 
OLD AND NEW MEMBERS WELCOME 
~........................................ 
.... 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
RIde needded to Purdue Fri. the 12th, after 6:30 p.m. or Sat. Will help pay for gas. Call Ruth, 4067. 
Need four tickets to Mich. State game. Call Tom O'Neil' at 8661 after 7:00 p.m. 
Need ride to Boston on Thurs. or Fri. Becky 6734. 
Desperately need Boston College tickets for family. Call Caole 288­
0088. 

Need 7 Northwestern G.A. ticketsII Will pay top dollar 288­5207. 
Need 2 Southern Call tlx. Cll Bob 3665. 
/Need 4 Boston College and Southern Cal fix's. Dave 28t-8948. 
FOR SALE 

Couches, chairs, Misc. Free Delivery to Campus. Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. 
'65 Galaxle Ford. Good engine, like new. 4 .tires. $125. 234-5686. 
Lots of used furniture, arm chairs, lamps, chests, sofa, electric office typewriter, beds, roll-a-way, tables, deep fryer and other garage sale and household Items. Thurs. and Fri. 10-12. 1024 Quimby, off Eddy between Jefferson Blvd. and school field, or call 287-1312. 
For Sale: YAMAHA 1972-125cc, 800 actual mileage. Includes 2 helmets. $595 or best offer. 233­6727. 
For·:;.,le: Used Bundy cornet goo~ondltlon. Call Jack, 3597. 
NOTICES 

Sunflower Music Shop. 'Vintage stringed Instruments. Expert repa lr. Books, records, and ac­cessories. 632 Prtage Ave. 
ND-SMC Council for Retarded., First session this Sat., 9:00. Welcome old and new members. Questions call Tom, 287-6673 or 
Kathy 288-4315. 
"But you've got to have friends" 
Information. Write Gay Students of Notre Dame, P.O. Bx 206, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
Quick loans. Morrissey Loan Fund. Up to $150. 30 days, 1 percent Interest. Basement of LaFortune. M-F., 11:15. 12:15. 
Party, Frl night. 1223 Woodward Ave. 
Paullus of MBA vs. Nickle of Nickle's. Four Nickle-Burgers (2 lbsl in One Hour. Thursday, 9· 1197~. (Be There· 8:30pm.) 
FOR RENIT 

Nice room • for 1 N.D. graduate student. 278-1997. 
2bedroom apartment or individual rooms for tent. Close to campus. Furnished. S135 and $65.' utilities included. 233-2613. 
Room for Girl. Close to N.D. Kitchen privileges, swimming pool. $15 week. Call Mr.s Cooper, 272-3004. 
Made a mistake on housing . wanna try again? Apt for rent, 1or 2 , SllO furnished.. 233-5282. 
4 bedroom; kitchen, living room; dining room, basement; All rooms and kitchen · furnished; 1 bathroom, shower In basement; washer; dryer; and deep freezer; equipped with security system; walking distance from Notre Dame. You may call after 4 P.M. phone 232-7180. 
Furnished apartments. S03 W. Jefferson. Duplex, 3 rooms, Floor. Gas Heat and Furnished. 289-6307. 
23~-0596. 
Whole upstairs floor , girls only, S50 month. 283--570, 233-132?_. 
LOST ANO FOUND 

Found: Girl's watch found Saturday night on sidewalk near Towers. Call 8844. 
Lost: A turquoise fetish earring on SMC campus. Great Sentimental value. If found, call 5429. 
Lost: Near ACC, tan and black young German Shepherd. An­swers to the!nllmeof Cher. ph 287­
8489. 
Electric /.YPewrlter In black carrying case misplaced In summer storage. Reward. Paul, 1384. 
_.j.~.~:::=::=::;;::=;;:;::;:::::­

10 

•
Mile N of ND·SMC: 
• 

on US 31 • 
:
. 
: MIDNIGHT SHOW : FRI. & SAT. 

0 
:BUY YOUR TICKETS:
. ...... 
~ NOW!! REDUCED PRICES "ROLLERBALL" at Midnight "TOMMY" at 12:15 A.M. 





$AYE 

WITH THESE MONEY SAYING COUPONS THRU 
ept. 21 

3 LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU 
710 W. McKINLEY AVE.-MISHAWAKA (Town & Cour:~try Shopping Center) 
1702 S. MICHIGAN -SOUTH BEND 1807 LINCOLNWAY EAST-SOUTH BEND 
~4"·11Jilo]~~···~f
c ARBY'S nd~/ROAST BEEF SANDWICHES 
~ Reg. 89' 
~l2 FOR $1 39 (!LIMIT
11 tr~ Coupon expires SEPTo 21 
.. 
... 
Reg. 89' 


$139
2 
FOR 

• • • • ........ ~ .. " ~ ... "' " .... J • : '"".... 


Irish stressing specialty teams 
... 
by Tom Kruczek 

When a new football coach comes to a team, he brings with him a dif­ferent system and a different philosophy than the coach that preceeded him. When Dan Devine came to Notre Dame, he brought with him a tremendous respect for for the importance of the kicking game. As a result, this year the Irish have a specialty teams . coach, Ed Chlebek whose job it will be to oversee all aspects of the kicking game which in-· 
eludes kick-offs, punts, returns, field goals and extra points. 
This year's coverage on punts will be a little different than in past 
years. Instead of using offensive linemen on the coverage teams, Chlebek 
nas inserted defensive players who have speed and ability to 1tackle\. 
This should reduce the average return yardage on punts, which last year 
was 12 yards for the opposition. This is twice what the .Irish were able to 
return. 

As for the top punting spot, Tony Brantley still holds a slight edge over 
freshman Joe Restic. Brantley has improved on his average, as well as 
the number of seconds he is able to hang the ball in the air. Chlebek 
pointed out that the punter would like to get the ball off in 2 seconds or 
less and hang it for at least 4 seconds to allow for the coverage team ·to 
get downfield. "But Restic is putting a lot of pressure on Brantley and 
that i$good~o hav.e t.nullh comoetition like that for the nunting job. 
However, before Brantley or Res tic can put the ball in the air, it has to be snapped back to them. Again in time terms, according to Chlebek, it has to be back in 0.7 seconds and the leading candidate is Howard Meyer (6'3", 216) from San Jose, Claif. Also able to snap is Steve Quehl. 
One of the most difficult facets of the kicking game is the returning of punts, and for this Chlebek is looking "for a man primarily with good hands and ~ho can catch and hold the ball in a crowd and who also has good speed." Randy Harrison, who last year averaged 7 yards a return, will be paire-i with Ted Burgmeier who averaged just under 7. Backing up this pair will be Bob Zanot and Tim Simon who sat out last season with an eye injury. In 1973 Simon averaged close to 22 yards per punt return, thanks in part to a spectacular 73 yard runback of an Army punt. 
The place-kicking duties will be split this year, with Pat McLaughlin handling the kick-offs and Dave Reeve taking the field goals and the extra points. ~cLaughlin~ like the punters, will be expected to hang the\ball for at lease 4 seconds in the air, to allow for coverage. Returning kicks will be AI Hunter, who Chlebek rates as an "exceptional running back with speed and who c· mgain some tough yards when needed." Along with Hunter will be Terry Eurick\in the two-back set up. 
But on the kick teams, the "unusual people" are those who will try to break UJ. the wedge, and those who will try to maintain it. In both cases Chlebek points out "that\We look for the tougher kids. Those that can hit that ca1 go out and get someone, and those that have the discipline to stay in the lanes. Whether you're\~ocking or tackling, you need the discipline for the kick teams." 
But as if all of the kicking duties aren't enough to turn a man's hair gray, Chlebek has to worry about the NCAA ruling as to taking 48 or 60 men on the road trip. And since a decision has still not been made as to which of the two figures it will be, the preparation for Boston College wlll proceed as if 60 are going to be taken. If the NCAA ruling is upheld and only 48 go, "then we'll· have to change a couple of spots, but it shouldn't 


Culveyhouse leads ND Open 
Behind eight birdies, Jim Culveyhouse captured the lead after two rounds of the Notre Dame Open with an impressive seven-under par 135. Culveyhouse who turned in rounds of 69 and s6 with four birdies in each round 
leads John Delanev by fou~ strokes. Paul Koprowski in third' with 144. 
Culveyhouse, who according to' golf coach Noel O'Sullivan is en­joying a very successful season of competition. His most recent achievemnet being a qualification for the Northern Amateur Tour­nament. Hi& second round 66 is 
AP Poll 
By The Associated Pr~s 
1. Okla. (51) 0-0-0 1,108 2. Mich. (1) 0-0-0 918 3. Ohio St. (3)0-0-0 787 4. S. Calif. 0-0-0 746 5. Mo. (1) 1-0-0 579 ~· Nebraska 0-0-0 528 7. Auburn 0-0-0 397 8. Tex. A&M 0-0-0 382 •9;• N. ~pame 0-0-0 300 
10. Penn..,St. 1-0-0 282 
1L Mich:.~:St. 0-0-0 280 12. ,Texas 0-0-0 257 13. Alaba a 0-1·0 196 
14. Maryllnd 1-0·0 125 15. N.C. l;t. 1-0-0 124 16. UCLJ\ 0-0-0 85 
17. Arizona o-o-o 71 18. Pitt 1-0-0 63 1!). Flofida 0-0-0 59
• 
26. Tennessee o-o-o 50 
Women's tennis-tryouts on Sat. 
There will be a tryout for anyone 
• 
interested in joining the Notre Dame women's· tennis club on Saturday, September 13th at 9:30 at the university tennis courts. Those planning to try out should call coach Carole Moore (288-8'787) ' or Melissa Roman (7984) this week to tell them you will be there. 
just two strokes off the Burke and freshman Tim Saurs with a 149 Memorial Course record set in 1963 O'Sullivan estimates that a by Mike O.Connell. . score of under 300 will be needed to 
Others doing well in the make the 12 spot roster for the Openinclude senior George varsity and JV. The last two Huntoon with a 76-70 for a 146, Jay rounds will be played today and Ber er and Rich Knee with 148's F~iday in the 72-hole event. 
American LeagueNational League EastEast W L Pet. GB 
W L Pet. GB Boston 
85

Pittsburgh 82 61 573 
Philphia 

77 68 
St. Louis 75 69 New York 
73 72 
Chicago 69 77 

Montreal 64 80 
West Cincinnati 96 48 Los Angeles 77 68 S.Francisco 70 74 San Diego 65 80 Atlanta 64 81 Houston 56 90 
Wednesday's Games Chicago 7, St. Louis 5 Pittsburgh 8, New York 4 Philadelphia 5, Montreal 1 Atlanta at San Diego, (n) 
Cincinnati (n) I  at  Los  Angeles,  
- 

HOPS N' SPIRITS BEER SPECIALS EVERY WEEKEND 
SIX PACKS & KEGS 812 E. LASALLE SO. BEND 287-2581 

· -Baltimore 79 
.531 6 New York ·521 71h Cleveland 70 74 
.503 10 Milwaukee 
62 
.473 141h Detroit 
55
.444 181,2 

West Oakland 87
.667 
191h Kansas City 80
.531 
Texas 71
.486 26 Chicago 68
.448 
.441 311h Minnesota 66::lh California 66
.384 


Placekicker Dave Reeve will make a strong contribution to Irish specialty tNms. 
have to be more than just 4 changes." 

'The most often-asked question that Chlebek and his colleagues have fielded since coming to Notre Dame, has to deal with the aspect of pressure. And since the staff is well into the final week of preparation before their national 
television debut Monday night, it 
seemed that this particular dog
should be drug out again. Chlebek responded that since he is so in­tenselypreparingeach partofUtekicking game for the Boston 
College contest, that he doesn't 
have time to think about pressure. "But you can feel it there, and 
fsnyr~~fc:.~~s~0~e~a;o~f~:!~tl~ 
pressure within you that builds up, and gets worse just as you're waiting before the game. But when the game starts, you don't have time to feel the pressure." 
Wednesday's 
Boston 7·3, Detroit 4-5 Cleveland 7, Baltimore 1, 1st · Baltimore at Cleveland 2nd New York 8, Milwaukee 2 California 4, Chicago 2 Texas at Minnesota, (n) Kansas City at Oakland, (n) 60 .586 65 .549 51h' 71 .510 11 70 .500 121h 84 .425 231h 90 .379 30 
56 .608 63 .559 7 75 .486 17 76 .471 191h 74 .471 191h 79 .455 22 
Games 
The kicking game is not the most and the punts will be more im­talked about part of a football portant than just a means to contest, but when you think that transfer possession of the football. there are on the average 30 kicking If Ed Chlebek has anything to plays for the offense and defense, say about it, the kicking game will then it does take on a different be talked about as much as the1 meaning, a more important def-ense or the offesnse. Maybe 
meaning. This year the kick-off more. 
:-··• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •••••••·••··•:; 
_;"  CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS  ::  
• ·  VS.  DALLAS HAWKS  •. ·  
: s·AT  SEPT  20 h  7 30 p M  
~  •  •  t  :  ·  ·  

~NOTRE DAME ACC 
~ 
:. PRICES 

~Adults ..........$3.50 ~ Youths(16 yrs. & under) =also ND & SMC students
iTickets .n·~~;~··~~.oo :. ACC 9-5 MON. -Sat. 

• 1.. 


Call 233·616 1 NOW I DORM DOOR DELIVERY 
STUDENT UNION PRESENTS 
In new srn-en splendor...The most magnifittnt pidure ever! . . .. DAVID 0. SELZNICK'S 
STEREOPHONIC SOUND MEIROCOLOR An MGM Re '"~"" . :: 
SATURDAY & SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 13 & 14 
ENGINEERING AUD. $1 







