
OD The Inside 
Ford and Rationing 
... page 2 
Budget Cutbacks 
... page 3 
Vol. IX No. 63 

Student 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
records 

te1nporarily closed 
by Pat Hanifin Staff Reporter 

A recent federal law which would have opened all of a student's personal records to his inspection was amended last December to apply only to records gathered by universities after Jan. 1, 1975. Th~ date when cl?sed records will be opened hasnowbeen delayed until after _the middle of March, Dr. Philip Faccenda, university counsel said yesterday. 
The limitation of the law to records gathered from 1975 on and the 
delay we~e _d_ue to complaints from universities across the nation that ~he Initial _law would have destroyed the confidentiality prom1~ed to wnters of letters of recommendation as well as releasmg other confidential material such as parents' financial stat~ments. "~he sit~?tion this law puts the University in is in­~redibly _comphc~ted, Faccenda said. "We have forty people mvovled m this t~mg at Notre Dame as well as the Department of Healt~ . Education and Welfare and various educational ass?c1ations around the country but we still are unsure about such basics as what a 'record' is in the first place." 
H.E.W. has issued a hundred pages of guidelines on the original measure and its amendment, both of which were introduced by Sen. James Buckley, Cons.-N.Y. 
~niversities and other concerned organizations and persons have until Mar. 7 to suggest changes in the guidelines which will then be issued in final form after public hearings. According to Faccenda universities will then have "a reasonable amount of time to im­plement the new rules before they are required to open their reco!'ds." 
Faccenda stated that he expected the University would use most of the semester for working out the details. 
The initial measure contained a provision requiring schools to allow students to see a recrod within 45 days after it was requested and the final_guidelines will probably contain a similar provision. Facc~nda_ pomted out that so":Ie material might be preserved only on microfilm and that some might take time to track down. 
''We still do not know what records are or are not confidential at 
this University," he said. "There are quite a few offices in­
volved-all the ones that have dealings with individual students­
and there has never been any careful accounting made as to who 
has what where." 
An?~her matter under consideration is the question of asking or 
reqmrmg students to waive confidentiality in some cases. The law 
prohibits colleges from demanding waivers ·in connection with 
services which are necessary or required by the college. However 
the University is considering requesting waivers for such things as 
letters of recommendations. 
"Students applying here or applying to graduate schools with 
record~ from here would not have to waive confidentiality but if 
they d1d not we would have to notify the people recommending 
them on that fact so as to be fair to those writing the letters " 
Faccenda explained. ' 
H~ not~d that the Univ~rsity could not officially weight non­
confidential recommendatiOns Jess than confidential ones but 
suggested that students who retained their right to examine the 
letters would risk getting "simply bland restatements of their 
academic record that would not help the admissions committee 
decide anything." 
There has been no change in the University's records policy so 
far Faccenda said. "All records which an office would have 
released to a student before this Jaw was adopted will still be 
released. We did not remove or destroy any records after the Nov. 
19th effective date of the original law as some colleges did." 
Faccenda believed that after the analysis of present records is 
complete there will be very few which will be classed as con­
fidentia_I. "I~ is to our advant~ge to limit that class since every set 
of confidential records requires us to set up a duplicate filing 
system fo~ tho~e g~thered after Jan. l-and that costs money." 
The legislahon IS an "over-reaction" Faccenda believes, to a 
general fear that s~cret records in secret computers are beginning 
to control peoples hves. "Some people are beginning to get a little 
paranoid about this." 
However he does believe that the "basic point" of the law is good. 
"We all want to be fair and accurate in our dealings with students 
and clear up any errors that have been made." 
In the interests of this accuracy the law provides that any student 
wh_o f~els there is an error in his record may ask for a hearing to 
adJUdicate the matter. The nature of the hearing required under 
law has not yet been set down by H.E.W. 
"I do not think there would be any difficulty when the question is 
one of simple fact, such as what grade a professor actually gave a 
stude!lt," said Faccenda. "But when you get into subjective 
questwns about the accuracy of faculty or administrative opinions 
on a student then you can get on a never-ending road." 
He also said that it is possible that the new law would allow student to challenge a disciplinary action by attacking the validity of the record of that action. 
"But you have to keep in mind that the only permanent record the 
Dean of Students keeps after a student's graduation would be 
destroyed." 
.~he act wou~d allow destruction of records, Faccenda noted, 
c1tm_g a quotation from the Congressional Digest in which a sup­
portmg senator suggested that the law would best be served by 
keeping a minimum number of records. 
In addi~ion to ~~eing his file a student may also make copies of 
them. This proviSIOn was added in the recent amendment 
P~rents Confidential Statements of financial status ar~ an ex­ception to the post-January 1 release. Under the amendment these continue to be confidential. Further, parents as well as students have access to school records and parents of elementary and secondary school pupils may examine and challenge records on their children. 



Selection of St. Mary's president given to Board 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 

The selection of the next president of St. Mary's College now rests with the Corporate Board of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
According to Acting College President Dr. William Hickey, "each member of the Board of Regents was asked to submit his or her own recommendations concerning the candidates in­terviewed by the Board to the Chairman of the Corporate Board, Sr. Kathleen Anne Nelligan, C.S.C. "The request came at the December 14 board of Regents meeting. 
A total of five candidates were interviewed by the Regents last semester. They include Dr. Paul J. Reiss, vice-president for academic affairs at For­dham University and Dr. Francis J. Mertz executive vice-president of St. Peter's College, N~w Jersey, who were presented to the Regents at their Sep­tember 20-21st meeting, and Dr. Boyd Litzinger, dean of the school of arts and sciences at St. Bonaventure University, Dr. Robert Giroux, president of Clarke Colle_ge, Dubuque, Iowa, and Dr. John Duggan, vice­president for student affiars at VassVassar College. 
Although no timetable has been set for the Cor­porate Board's selection and appointment of a new president, Hickey stated that, "as a result of the kind of discussion which occurred at the last Board of Regents meeting, there is no doubt in my mind that a presidential appointment is to be made effective at the start of the next academic year." 
Because the recommendations have been made to the Corporate Board, the Presidential Search Committee, which was responsible for initial screening and of presidential hopefuls, "is in a transition period," stated Sr. Francesca Kennedy, member of the committee and acting vice-president for academic affairs. At the present, she said "nothing is happeningg." ' 
"As far as we (search committee members) are concerned, the committee will disband and cease to function," said Student Representative to the Search 
Committee Tess Lehman. 
"The purposd of the committee has been served: to do research, to come up with the best possible can­didates and to present them to the Board of Regents " she continued. ' 
Hickey noted, however, that the status of the search committee lies with the Corporate Board. 
"The ball now rests with the Corporate Board. Were they to conclude that there is no substantial candidate, it is certainly within their rights to recommend to the Board of Regents that the search be continued, and they, in turn, would have to notify the Search Committee to submit more names of candidates to them, stated the Acting President. 
The Search Committee has on record more prospective candidates than the five submitted to the Board of Regents, he continued. 
According to Lehman, the committee received "over 250 applications" for the post. When asked why a woman was not among those candidates presented to the Board of Regents, and 
now to the Corporate Board, Sr. Francesca com­mented, "We would have liked to have found a woman candidate. We interviewed several women and were thinking of presenting one to the Board of Regents, but she withdrew her name." 
Responding to the rumor that St. Marv's would not consider selecting a president from within the college, Hickey stated, "The Search Committee was open-minded. It was established by the Board of Regents and c~arged with presenting to the Board (of Regents) candidates for the president of St. Mary's college. Once the committee was formed it (the Search Committee) advertised in the instit~tion and across the country. 
"All recommencations and names that were su~mitted .wer.e followed up by the Search Com­mittee, which mcluded names from inside and out­side this institution. Any qualified individual was free to submit his or her name." 
Gen~ral ~ualific~itons for an individual to apply as a presidential candidate required that he have earned a .Ph.J?, held an administrative position at a umvers1ty or college at some time during his academic career, and that he have some college teaching experience, stated Kennedy. 
The search for a new president began shortly after the announced March 8 resignation of Dr. Edward L. Henry, the first lay president in the history of the College. Members of the administration faculty
' ' 

students, and Board of Regents were appointed by the Regents to research and submit potential can­didates to the Board. 
Among present members of the Search Committee are Tess Lehman, student representative, Sr. Francesca Kennedy, C.S.C., administration faculty representatives Dr. Eugene Campanale ~nd Sr. Elena Malits, C.S.C., and Regents Dr. Glenn Olsen Mary Rita Hellmuth, Mrs. Kay Botyle, and Sr. M: Leonella Moe, C.S.C. 
According to Hickey, Search Committee respon­sibilities were many. 
"They had to sort and research an enormous number of applications, conduct interviews all over the c.ountry, select the top candidates, invite these candtdates to the institution and present them to the Board of Regents," he explained. 
Eac~ individual member of the Board of Regents, followmg the December meeting, was to submit his recommendations to the Corporate Board Chairman. Mem~ers could recommend as many or as few candidates as they wished, he noted. Thus, all five candidates interviewed by the Regents will also be considered by the Corporate Board. 
"The major responsibility of the Corporate Board " !loted Hickey, "is to evaluate our recommendatio~s m terms of the needs of the college the interests of all the constituents of the college, a~d the future of St. Mary's." 
Prior to selection or rejection of a candidate the Corporate Board must interview each, and bas~d on the results of the interview, recommendations of the Regents, and the detailed information supplied to it fr?m the Search Committee, make its decision, said Hickey. 

"partial solution" to ND liquor problem ... see page 7 

Tuesday, January 21, 1975
the observer 

warld briefs 
DETROIT (UPI> -General Motors Corp. joined the price wars to attract reluctant customers into auto showrooms Monday by an­nouncing it will pay $200 to $500 rebates to buyers of compact and subcompact cars. 
GM, the giant of the industry, was the last member of the automotive Big Three to take the step. 
It said its rebate program, which will run through Feb. 28, w~s retroactive to Jan. 13-the same day Chrysler Corp. launched Its own "car clearance carnival." Ford Motor Co. joined the rebate game last Thursday, without a catchy name but with a simpler plan. 
BRUSSELS <UPI>-The U.S. dollar, in the fourth week of one of its worst Slumps, dropped to a 14-mo~th low _in Paris Monday and closed in zurich only a fraction above Its all time low of two weeks 
ago. 1 
Gold price rose, not spectacularly, after an early fall .. Th~ meta 
closed in Zurich at $172 an ounce, up 75 cents from Fridays rate, 
after dropping to $173.50 at the opening. In London, gold also 
closed at $175, after opening at $171. . 

Zurich dealers said there was some heavy sellmg of dollars 
during the day with little or no good news from the United Sta.tes to 
help prop it up. The Zurich market in ~r~cular leans heavily on 
U.S. trade figures and any expected deficits affect the dollar ad­versely. 

an campus taday 
3:30pm .. computer course, "lntro to basic" 113 comp. center 4:30pm .. seminar, "medical, ethical and legal aspects of prenatal detection of genetic disorders" by dr. h. bender, 278 gal. life center S pm --vespers, evensong, log chapel 7 pm --Informal gathering, old and new members of baltic club, refreshments, lyons hall lounge 8 pm .. drama, "ramayana" washington hall 10-11 pm .. radio, wsnd (640 am , freshman focuspolnt 
7, 9, 11 pm --movie, "patton",$1, eng. aud. 

Ford still prefers higher gas prices to rationing 
By RICHARD H. GROWALD 
WASHINGTON <UPI) President Ford remains con­vinced higher prices and not rationing is the way to hold down gasoline consumption, the White House said Monday. 
Asked by reporters if Ford was taking another look at gas rationing, press secretary Ron 

, Nessen replied: "Certainly not." Asked about public opinion poll reports saying the public preferred rationing to higher prices, Nessen said the Presi­dent is aware of what people are saying. "And the more his plan is looked at and compared with rationing, the more firmly he believes his is the right way." Under the President's anti­recession economic-energy pro­gram, fuel production and import taxes will cause gaso­line to rise about 10 cents a gallon, the White House has said. Nessen said the question should be not whether one prefers rationing or higher prices, but "which would you rather have -eight or nine gallons of gas a week max­imum or as much as you want at 10 He said rationing also would curtail long automobile vaca­tions, be "especially deva­stating" to the motel and hotel business and add more woe to the auto industry. "The President is not by any means convinced that a majori­ty of the public is opposed to his program," Nessen said. The press secretary said the Presient's anti-recession pro­gram is complex and needs to be explained to the public. He said Ford will have a news conference Tuesday and will make an economic speech to 800-900 businessmen and econo­mists Wednesday night at the Washington meeting of the Conference Board. 
1
Nessen said Ford would travel across the nation to make speeches explaining his program and the trips probably would start next month. 
In other White House develop­ments: -Nessen said Ford soon will "n· '.lUnce a boost in food aid to 

hungry countries. He indicated 
U.S. food aid would be boosted from under a billion dollars to about $1.5 billion but that Ford will do nothing to upset domestic grain prices. 
-Nessen said Ford is plan­ning to take various steps this week implementing parts of his anti-recession program, such as raising fees on imported crude oil. 
-Ford named former First Lady Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson and 24 other persons to be members of the American Revolution Bicentennial Adviso­ry Council. 
-Nessen discounted press reports that Treasury Secretary William E. Simon was about to leave office because of opposi­tion to the deficit spending proposed in Ford's anti-reces­sion program. Nessen said that if Simon was appalled by the billions in deficit spending, then it was equally true that "the President was shocked" by the size of it. 
Goodell seeks 6 month extension 



Amnesty Board tours U.S. 
By DAVID E. ANDERSON 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -The Presidential Clemency Board, bouyed by the response to its broadcast campaign for ap­plicants, said Monday its members will travel across the country in the next two weeks trying to reach even more potential candidates for amnes­ty. 
Chairman Charles Goodell said he had canceled a three­day meeting of the board this week so members could visit such cities as Boston, New York, Chicago and Los Angeles to spread the word about the 
Neighborhood Study Help 
needs recruits 
by Marianne Morgan Starr Reporter 

Students interested in working in 
the Neighborhood study Help 
Program can sign up on Tuesday, 
January 21, in the South Dining 
Hall, Wednesday, January 22, at 
the North Dining Hall and on 
Thursday, January 23, outside St. 
Mary's Dining Hall. 

The Study Help Program serves 
eleven South Bend area schools. 
The students tutor grammar 
school and junior-high school 
students in reading and math. Ttte 
sessions last for one hour on 
Monday and Wednesday, or 
Tuesday and Thursday in either 
the afternoon or evening depen­
ding on the school. Transportation 
is provided to and from the par­
ticular school. 

In addition to its present 
programs, the Study Help GroljP is 
expanding into two other areas: 
Rocket club, meeting on every 
other Saturday, and a new tutoring 
center at the Boys Club run by Tom 
Wild. The Rocket Club, organized 
by D.C. Nokes deals with the 
construction and launching of 
rockets. 

Those who miss sign-ups on 
January 21, 22, and 23 outside the 
dining halls, may call Tom (8437), 
D.C. 0739), Eileen (4306) or Dan (282-1784). 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Subscriptions mav be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year)Jrom The Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 


Air Force ROTC...The college scholarship program with sky-high benefits. 
Some people might need to be-coaxed with more than a full college scholarship to enroll in the Air Force ROTC Program. So, iffree tuition, lab and incidental fees aren't enough ... the Air Force offers a monthly allowance of $100.00, tax-free, in your junior and senior years, even if you are not on scholarship. And flying lessons to those qualified provide the most exciting benefit of all. Interested? 
Contact Captain Shepherd 
At Building 5, Telephone: 6634 
PUT IT ALL TOGETHER IN AIR FORCE ROTC 

clemency program. 
Goodell also said the board had written a memorandum to President Ford requesting an extension of up to six months in the clemency aspect of Ford's earned re-entry program. The program, announced by Ford last Sept. 16, is due to expire Jan. 31. 
The Clemency Board, which deals only with those already convicted and punished for civilian draft resistance or absence-related offenses within the military during the Vietnam era, has a potential clientele of 120,000. 
Goodell told a news confer­ence that his board had "experienced a tremendous upsurge in applications" since the start of its radio-television campaign Jan. 6. 
"In the last 10 days alone, applications have doubled," he said. "The total of formal applications we have logged in as of last Friday is 1,600 and we are approaching the 2,000 mark." 
A Roman Catholic leader, meanwhile, called the re-entry program "a failure ... because it is not and never was intended to be a true amnesty" and asked Congress to pass legisla­tion providing universal and unconditional amnesty. 
Father Joseph A. Francis, president of the Conference of Major Superiors of Men, said a universal and unconditional amnesty "should be passed as soon as possible during the 94th 
rn.nar•<>C:C: " 


CELEBRATING TUESDAY NIGHT 
Starting at 9:30 
Birthday Party for Mark Bloom 


(drummer for Talisman) 

MUSIC BY TALISMAN EVERYONE INVITED 
ENGINEERING GRADUATES 

Which way to go? 
Think about a technical sales career at Leeds & Northrup 

It's tough to make a career decision when there are so many ways to go. That's why Leeds & Northrup's recruiter wants to help you think things through and discuss the unusual opportunity avail­able to the engineer who goes into technical sales. 
If you haven't yet opted for the traditional engi­neering career, think about sales ... technical sales. It's an area where you would be using your engineering skills to match the product to the problem and where you would have the chance to develop your ability to communicate with top­level executives. You should be able to exhibit a degree of self confidence that is part of the pat­tern of a successful sales engineer. 
JANUARY 27 is the day our recruiter will be on your campus. It's the time for talk, not com­mitment, so if you want to find out what's involved in this kind of career option, arrange for an inter­view through your placement officer. If you can't make it on that date, write to us for more details. Write MANAGER, COL­
LEGE RELATIONS: 

LEEDS & NORTHRUP 
SUMNEYTOWN PIKE NORTH WALES, PA. 19454 
(In suburban Philadelphia) 
(215) 643-2000 
An equal opportunity employer 

Tuesday, January 21, 1975 the observer 
ND department budgets face more cutbacks 
by Joan Luttmer 
Staff Reporter 

Some academic departments at Notre Dame have already over­spent their budgets for this year and are facing a very tight second semester. 
Fr. Michael Murphy, chairman of the Earth Sciences department affirmed that 97.2 per cent of their yearly budget has been spent on the first semester. He named skyrocketing maintenance and repair costs as the chief overrun. Mimeograph costs have taken a big chunk also, constituting an expense of two-thirds of the budget. To manage the second semester he plans to exert careful control over faculty traveling expenses. Fr. Murphy says that Notre Dame's faculty traveling allowances are sufficient to attend the major conferences, but this could be an area soon cut. 
Fees will be charged in some classes to defray the costs in­curred. It is a charge intended to pay for the student hand-outs that the budget formerly covered but now cannot. In the handout cases, the students many times aren't required to buy a text-these handouts serve as their text. Another belt-tightening measure will be the discontinuation of some publication subscriptions that the Earth Science Department purchases jointly with the Library. 
In cases when the budgets prove to be insufficient, the Dean of Science can pay for some expenses from the Dean's budget. Even though grants from donors such as the National Science Foundation help, it has been very tight this semester. But according to Fr. Murphy things are always close in the Earth Science department. 
The math department, on the other hand, seems to have escaped almost unscathed from last semester's skyrocketing costs. Relieved of expenses in equipment upkeep and duplicating costs the department has avoided the areas most departments find troublesome. However, traveling expenses have been rising along with phone bills. These areas are being watched and to pay for their overruns money is being allocated from other miscellaneous funds in the Math budget. Perhaps the department is in such a good position due to the reception of more grants than expected. The National Science Foundation and 4 research grants allow continuation of most projects. Dr. Warren Wong, chairman of the Mathematics Department, said things are going along evenly and that the department will probably be in the black this June. 
Professor Edward Vasta of the 
English Department has already 
made moves to make up for the 
department having spent much 
more than half its budget in the 
first half of the fiscal year. For 
instance, the annual major 
speaking engagement sponsored 
by the English Department has 
already been cancelled. No money 
for the Sophomore Literary 



Herbie Hancock comes to Stepan on February 20 
Kenneth Lee and Mike Mroz, 
Cultural Arts Commissioners, 
announced a concert featuring 
electronics wizard Herbie 
Hancock, February 2oth, 1975, at 
8:00 p.m. in Stepan Center. Hancock's music can be termed "sophistifunk"; he is a main­stream jazz man who has added strong influences of African music and rock to his sound. Tickets will be $4.00 general admission. There will be only a few chairs set up so that people can 
bring blankets and whatever to add to their enjoyment. 

Festival appears imminent. The characteristic donation just cannot be funded like it has been in past years. Duplicating services were again cited as problems. Last summer the price of duplicating on the 3M machines doubled and the copying charges increased 20 per cent. Limits have been imposed on the amount a faculty member may copy. Chairman Vasta is con­cerned about traveling expenses and longdistance phomnone bills. But as Chairman Vasta puts it, "Butdgets are so tight they take up a lot of thought and energy, and this preoccupation with money isn't worth the time and effort." 
The American Studies Depart­ment, like the English Department must function on the money it receives from the Dean of Arts and Letters. Dr. Weber, chairman, says the American Studies Department is definitely tightening up. Special lecturers have been curtailed and the newsletter sent to student majors has been dropped completely. As in all departments, no pesonnel cuts have been made. Everyone is also cautioned to telephone and duplicating expenses. Budgets are getting tighter and here isn't money for office supplies and new subscriptions. The American 


Are there any pre-Mardi Gras activities scheduled to "whet" the students' gambling appetites? 
The knights of Columbus are sponsoring a "N.ght at the Races" with daily doubles and exactas, scheduled for Friday, January 24, from 8:00 to 10:00 in the council chambers. 
I am considering joining the Ombudsman Service this semester. Whom can I call for more information? 
The Personnel Director of the Ombudsman Service is Tom Gib­bons, who is presently accepting applicants for the Special Projects division of the Service. He can be reached by calling the Om­budsman Service at 7638. 
I want to add a class to my schedule. Just what is the procedure for it? 
To add a class you have to pick up a slip at the Registrar's Office in the Administration building. The slip requires the signatures fothe Dean or Departmental Advisor and the Chairman of the Depart­ment offering the course. Once these are obtained the slip must be returned to the Registrar's Office along with an IBM card you will receive. Students are reminded that Thursday, January 23, is the last day to add or drop classes. 
Will there be a "Quickie" bus running this semester? 
This Friday is the first scheduled running of the "Quickie" for the spring semester. The bus will arrive at the circle at 8:30, 9:00, 10:00, 11:00, 12:00, 12:30, 1:00, snf 1:30. However there may be a change; so watch for posters and announcements in the dining halls. 
When will Darby's Place open up for the spring semester? 
Darby's Place has already opened and is holding its regular hours of midnight to 4:30. Incidently, anyone who is interested in working in Darby's should contact Bob Bode at 8720. 
NOTR: The Ombudsman Service has resumed full operations! If you have any questions or problems just call weekdays 9:30-5:00 and Monday through Thursday evenings 10:00 to midnight 7638. 

4Jo~i~
.;fb~ (1J~J6 



Mardi~~ Gras ~-..,.lfll-!:7 
~:....v Dealers Schoo~ 
anyone who wishes to deal for any booth must attend Dealers School 
classes start tonite 
6:30 at Stepan Center 
Studies Department has not overspent their entire budget but costs have been such that this coming semester will have to absorb an expensive first semester. 
The Engineering Department has been economizing for the last few years. Speakers were cur­tailed a few years ago. However this year they have been hard-hit in the area of government funds. Most of their research projects have been provided grants and contracts from the government and private industry. With the present economy these projects have been slowing down. The areas of duplicating and sub­scriptions has hurt them but not too drastically. · Associate Chairman Edward Jerger did say, however, that the Architecture­Engineering program in Rome has had difficulty. With an unstable government and fluctuating dollar they haven't been able to do all they anticipated, but the program has not been cut. 
Generally almost every department has felt the pinch. The new budget is soon to be announced and a new year of penny-pinching for the chairmen who compile the budgets is anticipated. So when receiving your . engineering newsletter third class postage instead of fi.rst class, remember that such ts life in a year of recession. 
lnPIRG TOWN MEETING 
WEDNESDAY, JAN. 22 
8 P.M. 1-C LAFORTUNE 
SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS PRESENTS 



RARE EARTH 
WITH SPECIAL GUEST 

PURE FUNK 
IN CONCERT 

MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
NEXT TUESDAY, JANUARY 28, 
7:30 p.m. 

TICKETS: $5.50 IN ADVANCE..t $6.00 DAY OF SHOW. TICKETS AVAILAtsLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, MORRIS CIVIC, AN~ BOOGIE RECORDS. 
ALL SEATS GENERAL ADMISSION 


Acareer in law­

WilhOUIIBW SChOOl. 

What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an u~dergraduate education and a challenging, respon­Sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the six courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more th.an 700 graduates in law firms, banks. and corporations in over 60 cities. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are mterested 1n a career as a Lawyer's Assistant we'd like to meet you. ' 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
TUESDAY,FEBRUARY11 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
'Indiana T. Reg. #AC0035 

IIIIIIIJUlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllniiiiiiiiiiiiiUU11nmmnnn111111111111111111111111111!1~ 111



THE OBSERVER 
AM Blues 
Fred Graver Editorial Edito• 
Bob Zogas Business Manager 

Tuesday, January 21, 1975 -------------­

Semester Review 
ANINOEP£NOENTSTUOFNTNE~PAPER 
EDITORIALS: JU.IW1  NEWS:  a.1715 BUSINESS: 213-7471  
Tom Dr•pe  
Editor-in-Chief  rerrv KeeneyNews Editor  
a.ltMcMnua  
Advertising Manager  

In the beginning of a new semester, it is best not to forget the events of the past one. Reviewing major areas of university concern, it becomes apparent that much was left undone at the end of the fall term. We present this per­<;pective as a means of setting forth some dh·ection durin~ the months ahead. 
Student Government: The Student Government leaders suffered from a lack of direction last semester. When the occasion called for immediate action, as in the basketball ticket issue, they went to work. But the Administration has again taken to the strategy of silent running, and the areas which Student Government needs to pursue have been fairly well disguised. 
The handling of voter registration and the fall general election indicated what could be done in the area of student politics. It is an area that will become increasingly important as Notre Dame participation in the Indiana Student Association grows. The food co-op, though, has proven nothing but promises. 
Student Government has to learn to throw its weight around in areas that the Administration finds uncomfortable to discuss, such as Housing and Co­Education. 
Although a well-oiled service organization, the Ombudsman service may have to expand its emphasis into more of a research organization. The best solution may be to leave the execution to Student Government, and the research to the Ombudsman service. 

Student Affairs: The main achievement last semester, from the outlook of Student Affairs people, was the 
establishment of the Alumni-Senior Club, despite the fact that it opened quite late in the semester and released its first manager after being in operation for only a short time. 
The center ring in Student Affairs this semester will most likely be occupied by the special student committees which originated at the Trustee's meeting last October. A major pitfall lies in the Student Affairs tradition of removing all the force and vitality from student projects beforP they have even bugun. 
Academic Affairs: The search for a 
replacement for Frederick Crosson, 
Dean of Arts and Letters, should porve 
interesting, especially in light of the 
rumored merger between the College of 
Arts and Letters and the College of 
Sciences. 
The calendar issue will rear its ugly 
DOONESBURY 

head in February, and everybou; in­vovled knows what that means. 
The findings of the North Central Accreditation Association still ring true. There is still a need for a sharing of in­formation at all levels: the faculty still feels frustrated in the realm of in­stitutional governance, there is still a need for a heightened sensitivity towards the role of women in the University, and the library still needs much work in the area of holdine:s and financial support. 
LaFortune Renovation: Most of the work was completed over semester break, including new stairwells, offices renovations on the third and fourth floors, and extensive painting. The Huddle, though, is still in drastic need of renovation. 
Student LUe Council: After spending an entire semester on the sexuality ruling, the SLC has so mcuh back work to do that it will probably take them three months to fall reasonably behind in their schedule. What is needed is a redefinition of purpose, which the SLC should take up but not spend more than one week on. 
Student Activities: The main problem in this area has stemmed from a alck of central direction in the office of student activities. This office should be more than a money exchange. The fast for hunger showed what can be done when ideas, not just cash, are put to work in the University. 
Co-Education: The University has 
reached a point of stagnation in this area. 
There has been a general ignorance of 
the needs and roles of women in an 
academic community, and a real lack of 
communication between all parties in­
volved, resulting in an artificial co­
educational institution. 
Hall Life: The drinking rules, set early 
in the semester, have all but destroyed 
the social life that was on its last legs 
even before the rules were set. Once 
again, the question arises, "where do we 
go from here?". 
All in all, it was a semester charac­
terized by a lack of direction and pur­
pose. What is needed now is some leader 
or organization that can begin to set the 
Notre Dame Community back on its feet. 
The areas of concern are obvious, the 
motivation for attacking these areas 
conspicuoulsy absent. 
The E dltorial Board 

by Garry Trudeau 
Compugraphic: Chip Spina 

r----------...., Picture Screener: AI 
lllllllllllllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIWI 
biI I brink 
AnY,one that spent any amount of time in an automobile over Christmas break realized, perhaps for the first time in their life, what true torture really was. For unless you were lucky enough to be gifted with a tape deck of FM radio in your car, you were probably tormented by the ultimate testimony to God's wrath manifested on earth-AM radio. 
Whether traveling the route to and from home to school, or embarking on the long drive down to Florida for the Orange Bowl, or just driving around town, it was impossible to escape the mer­ciless cycle of those 15 or 20 regular AM songs that pounded in­cessantly on around the clock. 
It is a rather dubious distinction of AM radio that they manage to select the ten or fifteen worst songs on the charts as the core of their music programs. They then choose five or six good songs that you liked when you first heard them and play them so constantly (sometimes they just let the disc keep going around and around) that you are ultimately completely repelled and nauseated by them. The combination makes for a program of songs so devastating as to be unsafe for small children, people with heart conditions and Mormons. 
What one of us can now listen to such tunes as "Lau_ghter in the Rain" or "Angie Baby" without wondering exactly what it is we have done to disturb the gods above. How many of us have forfeited our membership in the Barry White and Helen Reddy fan clubs just for that reason? And how many can endure that worst of all social and moral injustices, "Kung Fu Fighting" without seriously contemplating committing homicide on a mass of wires and transistors? 
One can see the effects of this disease spreading throughout all listeners. Drive down any highway where travellers have doub­tless been putting up with AM junk for hours and you will see a variety of methods aimed at releasing frustrations with it. Some take the easy way out and simply drive their cars off a cliff, leaving those deadly notes to prey on whatever unfortunate lies below. Others take an ecstatic delight in manually crushing the dastardly instrument with a sledgehammer until they can finally answer "never" to that haunting question "When Will I See You Again?" 
Admittedly there are alternatives to listening to suffering through hours of agonizing AM. For one, you can turn the radio off and find out how boring your family and friends actually are. Or you can switch the channels and take your chances with the other offerings of AM. If you're lucky you might pick up an exciting local high school basketball game between Wombley High and Kyler· town Catholic, or live coverage of the annual Azales festival in Topeka, or maybe even Divorce Court. If however, you hit a streak of bad luck you may be subjected to such cultural materila as the Mississippi Educational Network, the United States Steel Children's Hour (first lessons-stocks and bonds), or Howard Cosell. And when you finally get the complete, 40-minute sound· track of the cattle being driven through the main street of Waco, Texas, you know it's time to switch happily back to Karen Car­penter and "Mr. Postman." 
One has to speculate at just why the AM radio stations persist in playing such constant trash. Surely there is no station manager or disc jockey so sadistic that they actually get pleasure out of tor­menting their audience so. And even if there was, surely there would not be a whole country full of them, as indeed there seems to be. 
There is really only one explanation. Undoubtedly it is all part of a communist plot to brainwash or drive insane the listeners of AM radio in America. Controlling all AM stations in the country from a powerful underground studio in Teaneck, N. J., the Reds con­tinually play and replay those destructive songs until our minds have been converted; either into rice, or into that blank Tabula Rasa which they may then retrain. In this way, it is only a matter of time until they gain complete domination of the U.S. 
I knew this theory was correct when the other day I heard someone call up a disc jockey and actually request Kung Fu Fightin. I knew then that they had started to get to some of us. Everyone knows that the "funkyChinaman" is Red Chinese. In fact, when you think about it, it's a little bit frightening! Soon the country will be a mass of AM minds thinking in much the same way as Congress and speaking and acting in a manner closely resem­bling the Doublemint Twins. Then we will all be easy prey for any communist antago.1ists. 
In an effort to combat such subversive influences on the AM airwaves it would be advisable for government leaders to create an AM station which plays only toe works of John PhillipSouzaand the Johnny Mann Singers to remind listeners just where their loyalty lies. Only that way can we escape the communist threat and get rid of those AM blues. 
the observer 
Night Editor: Mike Strickroth Asst. Night Editor: Ginny Faust Layout: Ron Porkins Copy Reader: Bob Quakenbush Day Editor: Bob Radziewicz Editorials: Fred Graver 
Sports:  Gerg Corgan, Bill Brink  
Typists:  Janet Carney, Anne Peeler,  
Nell Viii , Jim Landis, Barb Norcross  


AN/) TH£ IJIEU, Af&iQ Of TH/3 pgJpt£ CAN K/05 JIR£Jl BIT PliT 6tNERAUY5P£AK/M7, 5lltl R£tAff rH BY IT 8tJTMOST ftl£ t!M/T IT 7lJ t.:W£ 
k/fU, l/K£, THE 70 SUCH Jl OtPER 54HJANS STill SACRIROAL V!RIXN 
FOI< N/6HT NIXON· 8RJJTAL. V/EJQ 711£ 5.4C~Fic& /1 MONTH. OF 
INSTANCP RES/6NE{), U/E 
HAP A IXJU8U3­"" \ TH£/R. SOC!JIL eAtEN-/IRE £XC£PllON5. 
CUSTOM? J/5 A MAJfJUV!Iff, ~ THER.£ 
\ H&AIJ6R.. 
'~, [;¥Jf?SI 
\
\ 
Ad Layout: Tom Whelan Night Controllers: Howard Halle, Tim Murphy 
Editori•l Board 
E4ttor-in-Chief: Tom Drape 
Edttorilll Editor: Fred Graver 
Sports Editor: Greg Corgan 
News Editor: Terry Keeney 
Copy Editor: Jeanne Murphy 
Specilll Projects: AI Rutherford 
St. Mllry's Editor: Mary· Janca 
s.ior Night Editor: Bill Brink 
AN!tures Editor: J.R.Baker 
Contributing Editors: Ann McCarry, Jim 
Eder, Pattie Cooney, Chris Smith 
#"'IDto Editor: Zenon Bidzlnskl 

Tuesday, January 21, 1975 the observer 

22picas 
The Unreal Strain fred r:~raver 
When you return from Christmas vacation, laughter comes easy this place feels firm and comfortable; the faces of friends shine with fresh excitement. But all too soon, the laughter and comfort and freshness bend under an unreal strain, and the shiny facade of Notre Dame reveals its harsh and severe tension in the everyday drone of life here. 
For a week or two, this place has the feel of something rented out for the occasion of the return of the students. The snow lies peacefully on the ground, there is an air of grace and happiness surrounding the reunion of friends, and everything is light and music and a festival. 
But the rented fantasyland turns out to be a poorly constructed disguise. The pleasantries fall flat like the backdrop in an amateur play, and the audience turns to leave the theatre and head 'PLEASE COOPERATE •.• I'VE NEVER DONE THIS BEFORE!' back out into the dark streets. Fro those that know this place, know that it has never been able to cover its true nature very well. 
At present, though, all that is far enough over the horizon so that we feel freedom enoughto ask each other, in a lucid moment of .aut:rider 
.

happiness, "What's more important, your work or your friends?" .
.

At present, we have freedom enough to opt for friendship. .
• 



Ford's New Style
But friendship is consigned, for the most part, to an option here. We have been consigned to some other mission, enlisted in some other force, and the drudgery and slavish attachment to work is . r:~a rry wi lis 
quick to replace the winter's fantasy return. It was hard to get at the substance of like the 1962 Checkers Speech of Richard "What's it gonna be, your work or your friends?" President Ford's economic program in the Nixon--the same abrupt standing and sit-It is one of the many contorted traditions here that work comes sneak-preview he gave of it on Monday ting, meant to convey casualness, and 
first. The studies and books and nights in the librarry and the night, in the spot just vacated by the weekly defeating that intention. isolation and seclusion of endless assignments and pressures. That football game. Hard, that is, if you watched I was so distressed by the "See-Spot-run­is the nature of this place, and all else is secondary. the man, or even if you just listened to him. after-two-balls"gesturing that I closed my
So many have been cheated in the deal which briought them here. The text, as printed next day, showed how eyes, trying to concentrate on what was Like the early American slaves, they were promised something slight--amid the exhortations in this short being said. But that, too, was un­that just hasn't materialized. So many came to learn about speech--were the specifics of his "three-satisfactory, since the motion-and-gesturethemselves, to get a taste of a world full of wonder and excitement. front" campaign of recovery. Only two of schooling that Ford had been given showed Instead, they are asked to devote themselves to quantitative the three fronts mattered (the tax rebate up in his very inflections and voice timbre. analysis or macroeconomics or the history of early imperialism or and the oil import fees), and exposition of He spoke in an unnaturally high voice for the primary tenets of gothic thought. And in the end, they miss out them took up much less than half of the him, with rigid pauses and emphases of the 
on the potentials of their own life. 
speech. sort that one hears in people trying to ex-
Not that the essential is totally absent from the "education" The manner of delivery was a serious plain the obvious to a group of idiots. received here. The essential is present everywhere, including the obstacle to perceiving the matter delivered-Once again, the uncoordinated, jerky,classroom. But it has been cast with a character akin to a road stop, -and this is very important. The presidency overemphasized speech patterns of Nixon where you stick around only long enough to get you moving on the is one of the major symbols of our national were intruding, and were extruding all "big trip" again. Slide down the ramp onto America's great unity and direction, and the way a President Ford's natural firmness and relaxed style.superhighways, speed and motion surrounded by barren, fruitless mobilizes this symbol tells us much about This unreality in the mode of delivery was landscape. his credibility, effectiveness, and grip upon not at odds with the message. The new style
The balance between work and leisure has been horribly tilted. reality. fits his half-new program. It moved in fits Even the characteristics of work and leisure have been made The President was candid and convincing and starts; it is late, and not enough. It irreconcilable in many places. Essential values have become when he first took office. But in an overkill confuses instead of inspiring. Of Ford's contorted, maimed by the unreal strain, by GPA's and Ute seeming effort to make him even more homey, his three "fronts," one--that aimed againstglories of academic achievement. advisors made him stilted and weak-inflation--was a mere going-though-the-
Is this contortion the result of a Notre Dame that is barren of sounding in this broadcast from the motions. His moratorium on federal life's most cherished elements, or is it more accurate to say that Presidential Library. And he let the ad-spending is a feeble gesture, probablythe character of student life is such that we have been made to feel visors do this. Ford needed no descent unenforceable, minimal in impact even if unworthy of life's goodness. Do we tend not to seek for happiness toward the common level. He spoke on that enforced. The import fees at least move in because there is none to be found, or is it more accurate to say that plane from the outset. In trying to make the right direction, and deserve further we've been trained to render our own happiness as secondary? him even more folksy, his image men made treatment later. But the carrot that went 
Those who deny themselves happiness do so because they have him look false and condescending. with this stick, the tax rebate misses its come to live under a system alien to their own. They are carrying a The speech was choreopgrfiphed like a target by just a crucial margin.load which someone else has proportioned. Somewhere along the Motown back-up chorus. Each "rising" had Even the Democrats' vague tax cut line, they have lost the ability to judge for themselves what is an illustrative gesture as if we did not un-paragraph holds out more promise.important, what is essential. derstand basic English. He counted Rebates affect the spending of those who 
When the winter fantasy return of the students is set back in the everything off on flabby fat fingers--three plan, who have maneuvering room who can closet, it is replaced bythesevere mechanism which goes about the fronts, and two elements, and two ob-afford to save as well as spend, who look impersonal process of churning out "students". The sadness jectives. (One spectator said, "He'd be in forward to the two rebates in the future. derives from the resignation of so many, left numb and senseless trouble if he had six points.") That is why rebates do not give the instant by that machine, seldom searching for anything beyond the Even the ' charted movements from shot in the arm that Ford is aiming at. The groaning of its inner gears. library corner to over-the-desk to beside-way to get people to spend is to give money 
Laboring spinelessly under the unreal strain. the-desk to on-the-desk looked puppet-like. now to those who have to spend it now, justThe inner gears wearing away at the vitality of each person, A terrible nemesis overtook Lyndon to make ends meet. That means an instant twisting them into beings which find their life in calculations, in Johnson, who became less and less real on cut in the tax deductions from the lower rituals, in empty conversations and day to day routine. Wearing TV as he tried to be more and more con-income group's pay envelope. But Ford is away endlessly at innovation and clear thought, producing a vincing. He was haunted by his still attuned to the Republican voters, who fargmented being with not sense of where it has been, what has predecessor, and an envious awareness of can wait for his rebates in April and Sep­happened to it, and where it is going. the Kennedy opposition crippled all his tember, and put them to more measured Stupid, cold machines making stupid, cold people. efforts to regain a natural forcefulness. A use. The President cannot escape the "When all the laughter dies in sorrow, and the tears have risen to similar doom inherited from his pressures of his constituency, even when a flood ... " predecessor threatened Gerald Ford. His those pressures are not the relevant ones in
.

. speech was choreographed almost exactly our crisis . 
..............•..•••....•.•.........•.•••.....•••••••..•.••.......:.....•.................................................................•..•........................•. 
seriausly!J falks 


Kicking the Habit 
art: buc:hwaI d 

Mrs. Dalinsky called me up last Monday "Harry, buddy, the season is over. There Mrs. Dalinsky whispered to me, "I told I went in the other room and spoke to night and said, "Could you come over to the is no more football until the summer." you. He won't leave the den. He keeps Marion. house right away?" He looked at me as if I had struck him. switching channels. Two hours ag{) he "It's a severe case of pigskin trauma. 
The urgency in her voice scared me and I "No more football? But it's only January." thought Perry Mson was Joe Namath and he He's been on TV football so long he can't rushed over. "What's the matter?" I asked. "Look at the set yourself. Errol Flynn is kept yelling, 'Suit up, Joe, suit up."' kick the habit." "It's Harry. He's in the den watching a stickinga sword in that guy's gizzard." I sat in a chair. "Harry, you know what Marion started to cry. "What can I do?" 
football game." Harry looked at the screen. "I thought it the networks do when they have no football "You can either go along with it, or we can "What's wrong with that?" was Howard Cosell. You mean there are no to show you. They give you tennis and golf give him electric shock." "There's no football on. He won't believe more games until the summer?" ·and basketball and hockey and bowling. "Electric shock!" 
the season is over." "I'm afraid so, Harry. I hate to be the They try to make it up to you. But you have "It's painless.It makes him forget he ever 
I whistled. I walked into the den and there person who breaks it to you." to co-operate. You can't pretend you're saw a football game. The only trouble is was Dalinsky sitting on the edge of his chair "But there's always football on watching football when in fact it's another there are side effects. He'll also forget the shouting, "Come on Kilmer. Go for a pass!" television," Dalinsky protested. "What sport. It is unfair to them." rules." 
"Harry " I said "that isn't a football about the college games?" "Look, O.J. Simpson is going off tackle," "I'd rather let him work it out by him­game y~u're watching. It's a movie, "They're over, too." Dalinsky said. self," she said. 'Captain Blood,' with Errol Flynn and Olivia "And the World Football League?" "That isn't O.J. Simpson. That's Olivia de "Okay," I agreed. We went back in the De Haviland." I shook my head. "They're going Havilland and she's not going off tackle. room. Dalinsky was watching Rhoda. 
"Don't interrupt me," he snarled. "If you bankrupt. Harry, you have to face reality. She's getting in a whaleboat to escape from "Who's winning?" I asked him. want to watch the game, sit down. Other­Life isn't one continuous football game." J. Carrol Naish." "Oakland," he said. "But I think the Jets wise go in the other room and talk to "I don't believe you," he said. "I'm sitting "Well, why doesn't Frank Gifford say are going to go for a field goal." 
Marion." here until the ~arne comes on." so?" Dalinsky demanded. 
the observer Tuesday, January 21, 1975 
•



Right to Life organ1zes 
by Kathy Skiba rescheduled so that students could Staff Reporter attend the Mass. Boxes will be available at Sacred 
At noon on January 22, 1973, the Heart Church to deposit the United States Supreme Court stamped, addressed enveloped handed down its landmark 7-2 containing the Observer ads to the decision on abortion, which vir-Congressman. tually legalized abortion Among those also invited to throughout the United States. attend the Mass are all mayors, 
Wednesday, January 22, 1975, councilmen, and state legislators will mark the second year an-of the area. niversary of the abortion decision. Furthermore, 150 churches of On this day the Notre Dame-St. the area, including those of Mary's students for Life will be Catholic, Protestant, and Jewish among the pro-life organizations denominations, have been asked to throughout the nation calling for attend the Mass. the reversal of this decision. Also present at the Mass will be 
"On this day we are remem-representatives from several bering the chilren who have not newspapers and magazines been allowed to be born," according throughout the nation, as well as 
to Joe Corpora, one of the director's of the independent student organization which has slated several activities for the day. 
Corpora, who has acted as coordinator for Wednesday's activities, noted that two million abortions have been performed since the Supreme Court decision. 
During the day the United States flag will be flown at half-mast on the campus. Bells will tool every 15 seconds between the hours of toon and one, the time that the abortion decision was handed down two years ago. 
In addition, a paid ad­vertisement will apear in The Observer, which will read: 'We the undersigned are opposed to abortion on demand and are hopeful that the right to life may be restored to all unborn children." The ad will bear a total of 2610 names, taken from petitions which circulated throughout both campuses. 
The purpose of the petition was to make people in the community aware of the aboriton issue, as well as aware of the Students for Life organization, Corpora explained. 
"The intent behind the ad is to show people and to show legislators how the members of this community view abortion," stated Corpora. He added that each person whose name appears paid 25 cents towards its purchase. 
"It's common sense that a human life amendment will not be passed by one sole thing; it will take hundreds of things to show legislators how their constituency feel." Corpora explained. 
Thus, all those whose names appear in ad are as,ed to circle their name and send a copy of the entire ad to their Senators and Representatives. 
The high point of Wednesday's commemoration will be a high Mass to be celebrated by Reb. Theodore Hesburgh, university president. The Mass, which will be concelebrated by the priests of the Notre Dame community as well as several Holy Cross priests of the South Bend-Mishawaka area, will "be a visible sign of this com­munity's commitment to the right to life," said Corpora. 
Corpora also commented that, "It is not just through politics or education, but most especially through the prayer and the grace of God that the hope of a human life amendment may be realized." 
Since this hope will be one of the 
themes of the Mass, the celebrants 
will be wearing green vestments, 
the color of hope. 
The Jerome Ganser Family, a 
three-generation family of South 
Bend, will present the offertory 
gifts. Corpora explained the "the 
Students for Life organization, as 
any Right to Life organization, is 
concerned with preserving life at 
all stages---from the moment of 
conception until natural death." 
In speaking of the Mass, Corpora 
indicated that the Students for Life 
"hope that everyone in this 
Catholic, Christian community can 
come together for an hour of 
prayer to God in hope that He be 
with us this day." 
Noting that several seminar· 
classes are generally conducted · 
during the time that the Mass is to· 
be held, Corpora indicated that he 
hoped that these classes could be from UPI and AP. In addition, WNDU-TV will videotape the Mass for future broadcast. 
Throughout the day WNDU's opinion forum, "Pulse," will feature the message of the NO­SMC Students for Life on radio and television broadcasts. 
In citing the goals of the ND-SMC Students for Life, of which sophomore Keefe Montgomery is executive director, Corpora noted that "as an organization, our goal is to work so that a human life amendment is passed. This is the mutual goal of hundreds of Right to Life organizations throughout the U.S." 
He continued, "Furthermore, we hope to educate the entire com­munity to the reality of abortion and also to what is happening in our country in regard to euthanasia and mercy killing." This goal will be partially ac­complished through upcoming lectures to be held in each dorm of both campuses. 
The proposed human life amendment which Corpora refers to is the Helmes-Hogan Amend­ment, which reads: 
"Section 1: Neither the United States nor any State shall deprive any human being, from the moment of conception, of life without due process of law; nor deny to any human being, from the moment of conception, within its jurisdiction, the equal protection of the laws. 
Section 2: Neither the United States nor any State shall deprive any human being of life on account of age, illness, or inadequacy. 
Section 3: Congress and the several States shall have the power to enforce this article by ap­propriate legislation." 
This amendment would in­validate the 1973 Supremeeme Court ruling. According to the '73 decision, Corpora explained that "In the first three months of pregnancy, no state can deny a 
(continued on page 7) 

FRESHMAN FOCUSPOINT 
sponsored by 

WSNDAM 

Freshman Advisory Council presents 
A NOTRE DAME UNIQUENESS: THE FRESHMAN YEAR OF STUDIES. 





TONIGHT 
1OPM-11 PM 
on 

WSND 64 



And we can offer outstanding career opportunities in Engineering, Programming or Marketing. 
We will be interviewing at 
The University of Notre Dame and Saint Marys College on February 4, 1975. 
To find out about IBM and let us find out about you, sign up for an interview at the Placement Office or write to: Mr. I.C. Pfeiffer, College Relations Manager, IBM Corporation, One IBM Plaza, Chicago, Illinois 60611. 
IBM 
An equal opponunity employer 

Tuesday, January 21, 1975 the observer 
7 

Alcohol bill seen as 'solution' 
by Pat Hanifin Staff Reporter 
The new bill exempting colleges and universities from liability for injuries caused by students using alcohol would be a "partial solution" to the Notre Dame liquor problem according to University Counsel Philip Faccenda whose office drafted the legislation. 
The bill, introduced in the In­diana Legislature last week by State Senate President Pro Tempore Philip Gutman, is designed to protect the state's universities from suits based on the Bratton case which last April held that a property owner could be liable for damages caused by a minor who consumed liquor on his premises without his knowledge. 
"We sre trying to limit the universities' 'vicarious liability,' " 
(continued from page 6) 
Right to Life 
woman an abortion. uuring the 
next three months no state can 
prohibit a woman from abortion, 
but may set up guidelines 
governing it. Finally, no state may 
prohibit an abortion during the last 
three months of pregnancy if it is 
necessary to save the life or health 
of the mother." 
The South Bend Right to Life 
group has worked in conjunction 
with the ND-SMC Students for Life 
towards the success of the Mass. 
The South Bend Right to Life 
chapter is one of nearly thirty such 
organizations formed in Indiana 
alone during the two years since 
the abortion decision. 
Corpora also made mention of 
the march organized by the South 
Bend group. Marchers will 
assemble at the Right to Life office 
in South Bend at 320 North 
Lafayette, and will proceed to the 
office of Congressman John 
Brademas. 
"It will be a non-violent 
demonstration," Corpora ex­
plained, "We're picketing 
Brademas' office because he is 
pro-abortion and anti-life." 
Several students have already 
left for Washington to participate 
in Wednesday's national march, 
which is expected to draw 30,000­
40,000 people. Each of those 
planning to march was asked to 
bring one pound of rice to be sent to 
the drought-stricken nations of 
Africa. 
Faccenda explained. "That is, liability for actions which the school is unaware of. If a student gets his alcohol from the University that is of course dif­ferent. 
Faccenda pointed out that there were two possible responses to the Bratton case. "Obviously the best would be to lower the drinking age but the University cannot lobby for that without risking its tax-exempt status. There is also very strong opposition to 18-year-Qld drinking in some parts of the state." 
The second alternative is the vicarious liability bill. Faccenda developed this approach over the summer and the proposed legilsation was drafted by legal interns in the university counsel's office. 
"In meetings with state 
legislators we were fortunate 
enough to interest Senate 
President Gutman and several 
other influential members in 
aiding the state's schools in this 
matter,'' Faccenda said. "We 
asked them not to impose greater 

!**********************************~ 
~NOBODY THROWS A FROLIC LIKE~
,..  
~THE IRISH, SO WE'RE LOOKING,..  :,..  
~  FOR IRISH FROLIC THROWERS  ~  


,.. ,..?===========================~
~ BECAUSE... 

,.. ,..
,.. ,.. 





IAN TOSTAL i ,.. 
,.. * : IS ALMOST HERE (APRIL 17, 18, i :& 19I TO BE PRECISE!) so IF YOU~ 
,.. ,.. 
:HAVE BEAUTY, IDEAS, CHARM, i ~TIME, ENERGY, AND/OR TALENT ~ 
,.. ,.. 
~AND CAN'T WAIT TO JOIN THE ~ i 1975 AN TOSTAL COMMITTEE, i 
,.. ,.. 
:LA FORTUNE BALLROOM ~ 
~ ,.. ~ WEDNESDAY at 9:30 ~ 
********jl'**************************** 
liabilities on us than we could ogically be expected to bear." 
-Faccenda feels that this bill is more likely to be adopted than one lowering the drinking age because "even people opposed to any use of alcohol do not wish to open the endowment funds of colleges and universities to massive civil suits arising from student drinking." 
Faccenda also indicated that he had spoken to other universities and colleges in the state and was gathering support from them for the bill. "They couldn't or wouldn't support a lower age but they can support this,'' he said. 
An institution of higher learning would be exempt from liability for injuries due to student drinking "unless that institution or its agent knowingly and intentionally sold, bartered, exchanged, provided or furnkshed an alcoholic beverage to a person that the institution or its agent must have known was a minor, habitual qrunkard or in­toxicated person." 
The bill would go into effect 
immediately upon passage. 
campus view 

A  NEW  APARTMENT  COM­ ic  BASKETBALL COURT  
MUNITY DEVELOPED FOR  ic  SHAG CARPET  
THE  STUDENTS OF NOTRE  
DAME & SAINI' MARY'S.  CAMPUS  ic  2 BATHS IN 2 BEDROOM APT  
VIEW IS SET  IN A WOODED  ic  ALL APPLIANCES COLOR  
SURROUNDING YET IS ONLY  COORDINATED  
3 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME.  ic  SECURITY  
LOCATED JUST ONE BLOCK  ic  SOUND CONDITIONED  
NORTH OF STATE RD.  23  OFF  
OF  WILLIS RD.  ic  PRIVACY  

"NOW RENTING FOR SECOND SEMESTER" FOR RENT/JL INFORMATION PHONE 272-1441 
ic INDOOR SWIMMING POOL TO BE COMPLETED IN FEB 





NORDEN 
Campus interviews (Monday, February 3 ) 
OFFERING THE CHALLENGES of diversified, advanced­tech~ol<?gy programs that typically range from telecom­mumcatlons, radar and TV systems, advanced computers and data processing equipment, microwave systems infra­red systems and navigation systems, to lasers and el~ctro­optlcs. 
OFFERING OPPORTUNITY for steady career growth based on the strong foundation provided by United Aircraft· and an outstanding Connecticut countryside location on Long Island Sound near many educational, recreational, cultural and llvmg attractions. 
Opportunities are typically for graduates in: 
M.E. 
&E.E.-tor responsibilities in designand development engineering. 

M.E. 
& I.E.-for our Operations Development Training Program (Manufactur­ing Engineering). · 


Computer Science-for varied involvement in sophis­ticated EDP applications and internal services. 
Openings in all areas may not be available at all times. See your Placement Office for latest information and to arrange an appointment. 
Norden o.v••• o .. o~ United ~Ire raft 
Helen Street, Norwalk, Conn. 06852 An Equal Opportunity Employer (M/F) 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 

Calculator. brand new. Call Mary 7953 
FOR RENT 

503 West Jefferson duplex 3 room furnished apartment First Floor. Gas heat furnished. 289.6307 234-0596 
LOST & FOUND 

Lost: Black billfold. Possibly near stadium. Keep money, return cards and papers. Call Joe 234-8952 
Lost 1 cufflink· green with white face. Reward· call 3783 
WANTED 

Need a rider to share some driving. Going East to Pittsburgh or Cleve. Leave Wed. afternoon. Call 3140 
Wanted 1 used portable b&w TV. Call 272-4156 
House mate warited. Private room 1mile from campus. Fireplace. $60 per mo. Call 233·2352 
Need 2 UCLA tix. Call Tom. 288­2613 
Need 2 UCLA tickets. Please call Mark 287.7981 
Wanted one or two housemates. Private bedrooms. <-lose to campus. Good neighborhOOd· call 233.5925 
4 UCLA tickets needed. please call Dave, 234·5523 
Need 2 UCLA tix. Please call Mary LOU 283.8066 
Desperately need 3 or 4 UCLA basketball tix. Call Dan 683-5362 
Need 2 GA UCLA tix. Please call Debbie 6746 or Brenda 4276 
NOTICES 

TICKETS FOR NEXT TUESDAY'S RARE EARTH & PURE FUNK CONCERT AT 
MORRIS  CIVIC  ARE  NOW  ON  
SALE  AT  THE  (NEW!)  
STUDENT  UNION  TICKET  

OFFICE. TICKETS ARE $5.50 in ADVANCE. 
Used & New Books for these classes: A.M. Studies 470, 474, 482. Col. Seminar 180,322,421. Eng. 109, 180, 
186, 303, 313. 322, 326, 328, 331, 362, 382, 384, 385, 386, 392B, 421 B, 482, 486, 490, 496, 505B, 505C, 579, 588. General Program 180, 282, 342, 346, 382, 442. 444, 482. Govt. 180, 340, 342. Hist. 112, 114, 180, 322, 414. Hist. Of Mex. Mod. Lang. 452,459,462. Phil. 101, 180, 201, 245, 275, 351, 436, 441. 
Theo. 122, 126, 222, 210. 302, 330, 346, 356, 402, 446. p 
Pandoras Books 602 N. St. Louis 
Overseas Jobs-Australia, Europe, s. America, Africa. Students all professions and occupations $700 to $3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime sightseeing. Free information 
TRANSWORLD RESEARCH CO. 
Dept F3 
P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA. 
Money? Morrissey Loan will lend up to $150 tor 30 days 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune. Daily 11: 15 to 12: 15 
HASH BROWN BLUES BAND AVAILABLE FOR YOUR DANCE 
OR  PARTY.  CALL  272-9895  
(eveninings)  FOR  IN­ 
FORMATION.  

EUROPE TRIP (LONDON, PARIS, MOSCOW, LENINGRAD, KIEV, ROME) $910 May 26 June 11. Prot. Rubulis, MOdern Language Dept. 
SMC & NO: tor PIZZA DELIVERY. call the ROMA, 234­3258. Monday Through Saturday 4:30p.m.. 1:30 a.m. 
TONY'S SHOE REPAIR IS conveniently located on the first floor of Badin Hall. See Tony for all 
your shoe repair needs. 
PERSONALS 
Liz: The Freshmen Art Major from SMC-I met you at a party at Grace 
Friday night where we shared cigarettes. It is very important that I talk to you. Call 1688. Your fellow animal lover 
To "Linda Bartowski", the person who backed into my-door in Stepan Lot last Friday. 1 have your real license plate number and will report you to the police for hit and run driving unless you reach me by Wednesday at 3482. If you don't, 1 will press charges. 

.... 
.. 

the observer Tuesday, January 21, 1975
8 

Knight, Kuzmicz halt Crusaders 
Young Irish stars work between whistles lor 96-91 victory 
combined for 39 turnovers and four 
by Pete McHugh 
"kicking -the-ball '"s. To-by or not To-by Besides these interruptions, both Was not the question. teams somehow muddled through But those "slings and arrows" of for an exciting game of give-and­
outrageous referees were take. Leading the Irish takers was something else again; as Notre Dantley who shot a subpar 6 of 18 Dame, Toby Knight, Dave Kuz­from the field but converted on a micz, and free-throw champ record-tieing 18 of 22 foul shots for Adrian Dantley survived an angry 30 points and game honors. Holy Cross team 96-91 in a comedy He was followed by the sur­of errors last night in the ACC. prising Kuzmicz who took ad­
For the Irish, it was altogether a vantage of his first extensive good Knight as said Toby turned in playing opportunity by scoring 20 his best performance to date with points on 8-12 from the field and 4-4 19 points, a team high 16 rebounds, from the gift line. A6-3 guard from and .three blocked shots. The South Bend, Kuzmicz sparkled in gangly 6-8 center, a sophomore only 22 minutes of playing time. from Port Jefferson, New York, Holy Cross started the circus be was less than svelte with four breaking to an 8-0 lead behind a traveling violatons but sparked tenacious full-court man-to-man. his travel-logged teammates with The Crusaders kept the advantage numerous key scores and for most of the half as freshman rebounds. standout Chris Potter tallied 15 of 
Holy Cross, on the other hand, his 21 points. had plenty not to be happy about . With 6:03 left in the half, Notre The Crusaders, garnered 28 per­Dame, coming off an eight game sonal fouls, five technicals, and the road trip and Saturday's loss to controversial ejection of their Marquette, took the lead for the coach in a decidedly over­first time 31-30 on a free throw by 

officiated game. Despite their Dantley. A pair of scores each by topped the Irish. The Crusaders way. I've never been thrown out declined to call the refereesdisadvantage, however, the guards Kuzmicz and Ray Martin incurred the first of their of a game coaching in grammar '_'homers 'but "just bad officials." visitors came back from a twelve and a 15 foot jump shot by forward technicals early in the period school, high school, or college Back in the winner's dressingpoint deficit to lead Notre Dame 89-Bill Paterno failed to shed the slapping the ball out of Notre basketball. This was my first room Phelps sympathized with87 going into the game's final two pesky Crusaders as the Irish took a Dame's Peter Crotty's hands on an technical this year. The one Blaney. "I don't like to see a coachminutes. 45-39 margin into their dressing in-bounds play. referee (Mathias) was a thief." ejected from a game. I don't think 
Overall, the referees, Carel room. Kuzmicz opened the second half After the game Blaney tried to George should have been. There Cosby and Mike Mathias, kept the For the half, Notre Dame was as he ended the first with a short talk to the officials but was quickly was a misunderstanding about a crowd of 9,253 around for two hours outfieldgoaled and outrebounded jumper as the Irish made another pushed into the locker room by two technical call on the bench. I know and ten minutes while whistling by Holy Cross but had 12 more attempt to run away from the policemen. "I just wanted to say a how it is, we've been on the road nearly 100 calls including the scores from the charity stripe. Crusaders. Holy Cross's fiery few things to them, but then I was for eight games. I'm just glad to staggering total of 51 fouls. In the Dantley's 17 (11-13 foul shots)), guard Joe Carballeira put things quickly fired into the locker room be home." unusual me, both teams also Knight's 11, and Paterno's 8 points back into perspective, however, by the crack security force." He "Be it ever so humble..." 
::~~n~ .~~ ..~ooter and then HC's Greg Corgan ;.::::;.;:;.;:::::;.;.;:;.;.;.;::-:·:·:·:·:::.;.;:::::::::::;.:::::::.;:;.;:::::::;.;.;:;:;.;::::::::::::::::::. 
With the Crusaders trailing 62­54, the Holy Cross bench questioned a rolling scramble for the ball and a double foul on 

The Irish Eye 
Paterno and Crusader forward Mike Vicens <his fourth> enough for their third technical. Coach Proportions
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::.;:;:<::::;:;:;:::;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-:Epic
George Blaney then portested the turn of events sufficiently <ap­Amidst the 51 personal fouls, five technical fouls, 37 turnovers and 187 parently) for two quick technicals points scored, there was indeed a basketball game at the Convo last night. and his eviction from the premises. And despite more whistles than a fleet of traffic cops in New York City 
Holy Cross, thoroughly confused during rush hour Digger Phelps, unlike his Holy Cross counterpart and now under the guidance of George Blaney, remained calm. assistant coach Jim Dougher, That's much to Digger's credit since Big Ten officials Carel Cosby and refused to fold again with junior Mike Mathias managed to turn two twenty minute halves into a two hour center Marty Halsey and epic. sophomore forward Bill Doran "The officiating was just plain bad," said Blaney after the game, "but leading the cause. The Crusaders it's not Notre Dame's fault. I'm sure Digger was embarrassed about the regained the lead 78-75 with 6:25 whole thing." Blaney was ousted for the first time in his coaching career remaining on a three point play by after receiving a double technical foul early in the second half. Coupled Halsey. with a first half "T", the first of his career, Blaney had the necessary 
With the crowd in an uproar, three to warrant an early exit. both teams bandied the score with Blaney had legitimate gripes. Hardly a minute of playing time went by Martin tieing the game 87-87 for the without at least two whistles and a violation of one sort or another. Ap­third consecutive time with two parently Cosby and Mathias still believe the myth that basketball is free throws and 2:41 left to play. supposed to be a non-contact sport. Doran came back with two foul After the game Blaney was waiting for Mathias behind one of the blue shots and the lead with two curtains separating the locker room ramp from the court and as he minutes remaining. rushed up to Mathias, Blaney was removed to the dressing room area. 
A traveling violation by Dwight "I just wanted to say a few words to them," said a rather distraught Clay gave Holy Cross the ball and Blaney, "then I was quickly fired into the locker room by the crack the lead at 1:37, but another tur­security force." nover gave Notre Dame life. With "He rushed out at me as I left the floor," said Mathias, "but there was just 1:18 showing, Dantley no physical contact made." followed up an errant shot, hit a It's tough being on the road and having to cope with officials," said a foul shot for a three point play and diplomatic Phelps. "We've been that route before. They have a tough job put the Crusaders behind for good, to do." 92-89. Two· more free throws by Digger was more thankful that the Irish, after eight straight road 
A.D. and I four by Kuzmicz ended games were finally home. "If nothing else, it's nice to be sleeping in your the scoring. own bed." 
minutes. Here he drives in for a breakaway layup. Vicens, who fould out along with "It's a big lift playing at home," offered Toby Knight, who had a Carballiera, finished with 17 career-high 19 points and 16 rebounds. "It's nice to have a crowd on your points. Topping the visitors were side for a change. How many points is it worth? How many points did we
Irish wrestlers to face 
Potter with 21 points and Halsey win by." 
with 20 (10-12 from the field). Irish "I think for a while our kids didn't know we were playing at home," guard Martin had his best of­added Digger. "We've been gone so long. I even forget what time the
Montclair State tonight 

fensive output this year with 14 game was supposed to start." 
Montclair State <N.J.), the DePauw at Greencastle 30-11. Skip points while Paterno added 10 Dave Kuzmicz made the most of it. Kuz, a south Bend native, showed nation's number two ranked team Mondragon at 118, and Dike at points. off for family and friends alike scoring 20 points in the 22 minutes that he in NCAA Division III invades the heavyweight scored pins while Irish coach Digger Phelps, who played. ACC's auxiliary gym tonight to Heffernan, Pat McKillen at 142, notched Notre Dame basketball's "There's a kid who has sat on the bench for two years waiting for his take on Coach Fred Pechek's Landf_ri.ed. John_Dowd at 158, and IOOOth victory with the game was chance, and when he got it, he made the most of it," said Phelps. "Kuz has wrestling Irish. The Irish now Bob Dreger at 177 won decisions. happy to have just won. "Anytime been having some good practices. We gave hima shot and he looked good. 
stand 4-1 after splitting a pair of Jow Pszeracki at 190 fought a 9-9 you win, especially after you've We didn't go into the game planning to use him, but we searched for the matches last week. draw. been losing you play well. We've right combination and Kuz did the job." 
Thursday the Irish fell to Divison The first four weight classes will got to have confidence to play and II power East Stroudsburg State have the same starters as usual win." IRISH ITEMS: Adrian Dantley tied a record for most free throws 22-14 in their opener. Irish winners <Mondragon, Moylan, Heffernan He praised Holy Cross, "They attempted in one game, 22, set by Jack Stephens against Northwestern in 
were Steve Moylan who took a 10-8 and McKillen). But at 150 Dave have a very good basketball team. 1954. That's the same Jack Stephens who is currently the Assistant 
decision in the 126-pound class, Pat Boyer, unseated from his position They're a typical Eastern team­Athletic Director. Dantley came one short of Stephens record of 19 free Landfried who tied a school record at 142 which he held down for two they're well-coached. I've got to throws made, set in the same game.with the 21 points he scored against years, has ousted Landfried and give them credit. They had some Last night's 96-91 win was Notre Dame's 1oooth basketball win. 
his opponent and Ken Dike who will be making his first start of the tough breaks." Don "Duck" Williams sat out last night's game with a badly sprained won 7-4 at heavyweight. In ad­year. Freshman Mike Padden has Crusader coach Blaney echoed ankle suffered against Marquette. His status for UCLA on Saturday is dition Dan Heffernan had a IHi also broken through to earn a his feelings for Phelps but was questionable. draw at 134 and Pat McKillen starting berth at 158. Mike Kemp furious over the officiating. The Irish play UCLA this Saturday, travel to Western Michigan on fouRht to a 1-1 deadlock at 142. at 167, Dreger, Joe Pszeracki at 190 "These were two really fine teams, Tuesday and then are home for four straight games: Xavier, Michigan Saturday Notre Dame pounded and Dike complete the starters. it's a shame it had to be played that state, South Carolina and Air Force. 

L____________________________________________________________________________ -­





