
Testifies at hearing 
Burtchaell attacks Affirmative Action 

by Maureen Flynn Senior Staff Reporter 
Fr. James T. Burtchaell, University provost, criticized the applicatiOn of Affirmative Action
unrversity oF notre dome sf. mary's college 
hiring policies in higher education Vol. X, No. 21 Wednesday, October 1, 1975 
during testimony today at a U.S. Department of Labor hearing. Burtchaell said federal agencies
Future optimistic involved in enforcing equal em­
ployment opportunity for women and minorities in colleges and universities "have made a mess of their good work."
Women S sports prosper "At present we do not have a 
Editor's Jlinlt•: In its fourth yl'ar as a l'tll'thu·ational institution. Notrl' llaml' is slowly acct'pting thl' dwllt•ng•·~ of gt·nuinl' <'ot•ducation. 
This t•Hnrl is appan•nt in thl' grtm th nl' tht• wonwn's athlt~tic program \\ht•n• fivt' woml'n's club sports a•·•· now t•stablislwd. 
Tith•IX. an aml'ndnwnt ri'CI'Iltly passl'd. insun•s that tht•n• will bl' JHl tlisnimination by St'X in any ft•tlt•rally-fundl'd programs at t•dm·ational institutions. So far Jliolrl' Uauw St't>ms to bt> com­plying with tht• law. 
In thl' st•cond of a two-part st•rit's. Sl'nior Staff Rt>porter \'aii'J'it' Zurblis examint>s the ef­ft•t·t of Titlt> IX on hopt>s and plans for tbt• futurt> of womt>n's sports at Nutn• Uauu•. 
·­

SMC accepts donation 
problem of equal employment opportunity so much as one of availability," Burtchaell stated. B~· \'alerie Zurhlis adequate trainers, first-class "The recent Carnegie Council St'nior Staff Ht•porter traveling arrangements, a more study. soon to be published, in-representative schedule and the dicates that there is no significant
Col. John Stephens, assistant direetor of athletics, wants to have development of a first-class corps supply of qualified women or 
of eoaehes. These will take some ethnic minorities unsuccessfully
a "realistic and vigorous

program" and yet maintain and time. he said. seeking appointments at colleges make progress in the field of "We anticipate coping with t~ese and universities," Burtchaell told wonwn's athletics. pro.blems, and so far en.thusla.sm, the comm1ttee. 
"My experience so far is that wasd1splayed by everyone mvolved, 
some institutions and some people involved have come up with
unrealistic demands," Stephens said. "We want to approach this whole pro~ect.with professionalismand practicality." 
Stephens said the support for the 
women's program was adequate
now. and he would like to see further support in the future. He envisions, however, certain ad-m inistrative problems, such as 


Women's fencing may become a varsity sport as a result of the passage of the Title IX amendment. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
For recreational facility 
bv .lt'an Powlt>V Starr Ht>portt'r 
The St. Mary's Board of Regents has accepted a donation from ~ne of its members for the construction of a recreational facility at the eollege 
Tlw gift was termed "sub­slant ial" hut no other details were released by the board. The gift was accepted at board meetings last Friday and Saturday. 
Plans for the proposed center are being reviewed by two physical <'ducation experts. The purpose of the study is to make certain that the present proposal contains "what thecollege really wants and 
needs," Mary's  according to President, John  St. M.  
Duggan.  

A list of architects experienced in buildin~ such facilities is also being drawn up. 

Investigation into the building of the new complex began two years ago when a committee of students and .acuity polled the . college eommunity regarding what recreational facilities were needed and wanted at St. Mary's. 
St. Angela's Hall, which had housed St. Mary's sports activities since 1892, had been condemned, forcing all sports activities to be conducted in Hegina Hall. The hall is extremely inadequate, according to Dug_gan. 
H sufficient funds are ra1sed, ground will be broken this spring, with completion tentatively set for early autumn. 
The site for the planned gym­nasium -recreational center is the field north of McCandless Hall. Present plans call for four tennis courts. two basketball courts, two mini-gyms, gym-trammg room, locker room. sauna bath and bleachers overlooking one of the basketball courts and two of the tennis courts. These plans are subject to change. 
The main concern at this point is a financial one. The students themselves, in order to show their support for the plan, raised ap­proximately $4060 through the donation of their student govern­ment fee rebates to the fund. Other activities are now being planned by the various halls and student government to raise additional funds. When collected, the money will be donated as one large gift. 
Five new regents were also welcomed to the Board during the weekend meeting. 
Margaret Hall Cushwa, a 
(continued on page 7) 
Stephens said.


a bsl!lllllrve
liiiii' r InSIghi: 
Director of Athletics Edward
M ) K d 't t
( oose rause oesn expec any problems regarding the women's athletic program. 
"I don't foresee any problems,"he said. "The program has started well in the past few years, and we give the women the opportunity to participate in any sport they want and will continue to do so." 
Krause· also noted that the Athletic and Convocation Center, Stepan Center and the Knute Hockne Mem•lrial gym have enough facilities available to give the women a full opportunity to participate. 
\'arsity Status 
Hotvedt said she would like to see a variety of changes and not only the opportunity to try the activity at the club-sport level. 
llotvedt explained the priorities for varsity-level competition. "Competition priority of a club sport usually comes after studies and social commitments. Varsity priorities come after studies," she said. 
"If a high level of competition is attained. the law gives the female athlete participation in the sport affirmative things --financial aid, paid coaches, and all that is ex­pected of a varsity athlete," Hotvcdt stated. "The woman represents the school and is of the highest caliber." 
If a present club sport became varsity, its budget would be in­creased from the $900 allotted to club sports to an eight to 10 thousand dollar budget, including part-time paid coaches. The benefits the women receive are no 
(continued on page 5) 
Afrirmative Action "llnreasonable" 
.
The University provost further eriticized affirmative action 
procedures as often unreasonable and challenged the use of federal contracts to enforce social policy.Under Revised Executive Order 
11246 and Labor Department 
regulations, all institutions receiving $1 million or more in federal research contracts must have an Affirmative Action program approved by HEW's 

In order to prevent women from walking at night between cam­puses, the Ombudsman Service is working toward a more reliable shuttle system. (Photo by Tom Lose) 
Ombudsmen to examine faltering shuttle system 
by Cathy Cannon thinking about projects for the Staff Reporter improved security of Notre The Ombudsman Service will Dame women. The work to improve the shuttle bus organization will check the system between the campuses viability of posting notices in of Notre Dame and St. Mary's the female halls of the 
in an effort to avoid future in-dangerous areas on campus. cidents of rape. This action He said no plan exists for results from an attack on a St. starting an escort service since Mary's woman on Sept. 16 who security already provides one. was walking from Notre Dame Arthur Pears, Notre Dame to St. Mary's. security chief, said "the escort 
Matt Cockrell, head of Om-service is available anytime budsman, said, "The shuttle day or night. We have men for bus is often late and sometimes that purpose only." doesn't show up at all. We want Pears said the service was to make it more reliable so that used forty-six times during the girls will trust it and stop month of September. walking between the cam-He said patrols have not been puses." increased since the report of the 
Ombudsman will check the rape on Sept. 16, but they are possibility of a shuttle bus being concentrated in certain leaving from the Notre Dame problem areas such as the road campus shortly after twelve between Notre Dame and St. 
p.m. on week nights. Now the Mary's. That road is patrolled last bus leaves from the Notre every fifteen minutes, he said. Dame campus at 11:45, p.m., Pears added that security hopes said Cockrell. to make the patrols more 
\...!t,__H_e_s_a_i_d....,,.,o_m_b_u_d..,s_m_a_n_l_.s__"'v~i=s-ib=l..e_a=n-d_,co~n~p-i_c_uo_u_s_. 
Office for Civil Rights. 
The Affirmative ACtion program must analyze the current sexual and minority composition of the institution's staff and set up goals and timetables for the recruit­ment, hiring, and promotion of women and minorities. 
"I would venture to suppose," Burtchaell stated, "that if af­firmative action plans of all the eolleges and universities in this eountry were put beside one another, and their goals added up, the sum of them would ludicrously exceed the possible supply of women and minorities ... in the various fields." 
"Indeed," Burtchaell continued. "if tile government is sincerely desirous of increasing the presence of wonwn and minorities in the profession of higher education. a most effective way to help them approach academic careers would be to provide special fellowships .. " 
The fellowships, Burtchaell noted, could be "restricted to women and minorities. on the undergraduate· and graduate levels." 
"Surely," the provost observed, "I he government need feel no more squeamish about providing l'ducatonal incentive funds re­

stricted by sex and ethnic origin than it does about insisting institutions hire preferentially according to these same categories." "Access to our profession 
(continued on page 6) 



Wednesday, October 1, 1975
2 

the observer 
Rises 13 per cent 

warld briefs 
CHICAGO <APJ -Chicago police arrested a woman carrying a gun Tuc:sday night outside the Conrad Hilton Hotel 12 minutes before President Ford's arrival by motorcade, but the 'Secret Service said it had nothing to do with Ford's visit The woman, identified by Presidential Press Secretary Ron Nessen &i Carmen Theresa Pulido, was arrested at 6:02p.m. across the st.""eet from a rear door of the hotel at Eighth Street and Wabash Av~nue. Ford entered the building at 6:14p.m. 
GARY, Ind. <APl -A service station attendant who fatally wounded two hostages as he tried to shoot a holdup man is being held on preliminary murder charges, police said. The robber escaped unhurt, with about $200. It was at least the sixth robbery at the downtow~ Gary srrvice station this year. 

an campus taday 
october 1, 1975 
12:15 pm -­
4:00pm --­
5:15 pm --­
6:30 pm --­
7:30 pm --­
8:00 pm --­
8:00pm --­
8:15 pm --­

seminar, "Induction of tolerance by haptens con­jugated to non-Immunogenic carriers" by dr. john gavin, molecular biology lab, miles laboratory. coffee & sandwiches rm 109 lobund lab 11:45 am. 
workshop, carole farley, soprano, little theater. 
evensong vespers, log chapel. 
meeting, notre dame salllng club, rm 204 eng. bldg. 
lecture, "the american catholic experience" by james hennesey, s.(., president jesuit school of teology, carroll hall. 
lecture, victor marchettl, author of "cia and the cult of intelligence" washington hall. 
philosophy perspectives, "collective understanding: it's nature and fruits" by stephen toulmln galvin life science ctr. aud. 
piano concert, the haddens, duoplanists, library aud. tickets $1 at door. 



Tavis to assume 
C.R. Smith chair 
Dr. Lee A. Tavis, professor of finance at the University of Texas and a specialist in managerial finance and international management, will assume the C.R. Smith Chair in the College of Business Administration at Notre Dame next July, it was announced today by Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the 
University. 
Tavis is a Notre Dame alumnus 
who earned his baccalaureate 
degree ,in marketing from the 
University in 1953. Following five> 

executive officer for 40 years.  He  
also  served  as  Secretary  of  
Commerce  in  the  Cabinet  of  
President Lyndon Johnson.  

Smith has been a longstanding friend of Notre Dame and has served on its College of Business Administration advisory council since 1953. He and Fr. Hesburgh are close friends. 
Between 1961-64 Tavis was associated with the International Center for the Advancement of Management Education at Stan­ford University and conducted 
Crime rate still problem 
WASHINGTON <APJ -The month increases of 4 per cent The report said that over-all,
nation's crime rate rose 13 per each for murder, rape and ve­crime rose 12 per cent in cities 

cent during the first half of this hicle theft; 17 per cent for rob­over 25,000 in population, 14 to year compared with the same bery, 9 per cent for assault, 15 per cent in smaller towns, 14 period a year ago, the FBI re­and 14 per cent each for bur­per cent in the suburbs and 15 ported Tuesctay. glary and larceny. per cent in rural areas. 
The rate was markedly less 

than the increase reported for !*************~~~***(************ 
each succeeding quarter for ,..
,..
nearly two years. But Atty. Gen. Edward H. Levi said, "We : can claim no great solace in the fact that the rate in the rise of serious crime has lessened ~ somewhat. Crime remains an 
:

enormous national problem and current levels are, and must * be, seen as unacceptable." 
Broken down into three­month periods, the FBI statis­tics showed an 18 per cent surge for January, February 
cent increase and June.  for  Ap ril,  May  : •  
That's  the  first  time  in  21  :  

months that the quarterly in-• crease has slowed to less than :
the double-digit level. • 
The FBI Uniform Crime Re-: 
ports are based on the number : of murders, rapes, robberies, • burglaries, assaults, larcenies : 
adnd motor vehicle thefts report-: 
e to more than 8,000 state and • '?cal policies agencies. The sta-:
tistical report suggests no ex-• planations for the fluctuations. •
• 
In all cases, the percentage : 
of change is computed by • measuring the volume of re-• ported crime against the vol-• 
ume for the same period a year : 
that a-ctual crime may be two to three times higher than re­ported crime. The new report showed in­
creases in all seven crime cate­gories. in all sections of the country, in cities of all sizes and rural and suburban areas 
as welL 
But the 13 per cent jump for the six-month period was no­ticeably less than the 17 per cent increase for the full year 
of 1974 
· The current trend of crime increases began in the last
three months of 1973 when the rate rose 16 per cent compared with the final quarter of 1972. In every calendar quarter 

n.t:..t:.R. ,..,.. 
By the ,.. 
*LITER *PITCHER* 1;2 LITER ,.. 
Come see us for : for Good Food and a Good Time * 
*
THE BACK DOOR : 
fnext to Capri liquor Store) * 
** *** * •* 
and March but only an 8 per •••••••• ••••••••••••••••••• •·• • • • • 1 1 • •• • • • • ••••••
RETURN of the DRAGON :. 
see Bruce Lee & Chuck Norris battle : in the arena of de.ath I. ,I • 
: 
sponsored by : 
• 
h 1 b : 
t e Notre Dame Karate C u • 
SPECIAL _ Demonstratt·on :• Befo"re Each Show :• 
Oct. 2nd & 3rd :. 
• 

ENG AUD 7 9 & 11 •• 
• • ' ' : 
earlier. 0 th er studies indica te 1~•!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!!!!!~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 

THE MICHIGAN MBA 
A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN WILL BE ON 
CAMPUS TO DISCUSS THE MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION DEGREE PROGRAM. October 7, 1975 
THE MBA PROGRAM IS A TWO-YEAR COURSE WIDELY RECOGNIZED AS PREPARATION FOR PROFESSIONAL-CAREERS IN MANAGEMENT OF BUSINESS,GOVERNMENT, AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS. COLLEGE GRADUATES WITH MAJORS IN ANY FIELD ARE ELIGIBLE 
TO APPLY. FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT THE PLACEMENT BUREAU. 
since, the increase has been in ~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~
double digits until dropping to 8"' 
years asa naval officer, he received his M.B.A. from Stanford University in 1960 and his D.B.A. from Indiana University in 1969. His doctorate field was int­ernational business, and he was a f<'ord Foundation doctoral fellow from 1964 to 1967. He will join the Department of Finance at Notre Dame. 
The C.R. Smith Chair was established in 1971 by American Airlines, Inc., and C.R. Smith. Smith was one of the founders of American and served as its chief 
Arthur Kopit's 


INDIANS 
Oct. 10, 11, 16, 17, 18 at 8:00P.M. Stepan Center 
STUDENT SEASON SUBSCRIPTION SWEEPSTAKES 
All NO and SMC students pu~c~asing season sub­scnptiOns will be eligible for a drawing to be held Oct.. 10, 1975 before openmg of first show. 

research in Latin America into the financial and marketingdecision­making of local managers. He has co-edited two casebooks in marketing, as well as a third volume on corporate planning models. His latest book on "Managing the Firm's Short-Term Funds During Inflation" was published in 1974 by the Int­ernational Business Research In­stitute of Indiana University. He has written many articles and delivered papers in the area of financial management. 
SPECIAL RATE ALL FOUR PLAYS 
Student :. f'aculty ND-5MC Staff 
$5.50 

ND 
SMC 


THEATRE 
1975-1976 Our 10th Joint Season 
per cent this spring. The latest report showed six-
The Observer 1S published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during exams and vacation periods The Observer •S published by the students ot the Univ of Notre Dame and St Mary's College Subscropt•ons may be purchased tor 10 dollars per semester ( 18 dollars per year) from The Ob server. Box Q, Notre Dame, In d•ana. 46556 Second Class postage 
Pil>d. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Anna Cora Mowatt's 
FASHION 
Dec. 5, 6, 11, 12, 13 at 8:00P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
SWEEPSTAKES PRIZES 
l. 2 tickets to NO-Georgia Tech 
game  
2. Dinner restaurant of limit)  for your  two  ch at oice  the ($25  

3. $10 gift certificate at local store of your choice. 
BUY YOUR SEASON TICKET TODAY!!! 

FAT WA lillY II S 
HAPPY HOUR DAILY 4 -7 
Free cheese and crackers 
Monday  -Football Night  
GIANT 7' SCREEN  
Tuesday  -Free Movies 9:00  

Wednesday -Ladies' Night (complete disco format) 
SATURDAY FOOTBALL SPECIAL 
open at 9:00 a.m. 
~~--~~-----------t--~~~~~--------+--------------------­
Large Sausage Pizza $2.88
Arthur Miller's lntJicate 1st Fri., 1st sat., 
Thurs., 2d Sat. 2d Fri. date 
Tt!belak and Schwartz's

THE CRUCJBL£ 
choice and mail check for amount due with stamped-

carry out 277-0570
GODSPELL

Feb. 27, 28, Mar. 4, 5, 6 at 8:00 addressed envelope for 
April 23, 24,29,30,

return of tickets to: ND­O'laughlin Auditorium SMC Theater, Notre Dame, 
May 1 at 8 PM 

2046 South Bend Ave.
Indiana 46556 
Stepan Center 

-----~-------­ -----------­ 
Wednesday, October 1, 1975  the observer  3  

HPC discusses United Waydrive 

"' 

(Photo by Paul Clevenger) 
Author of bestseller 
by Martha Fanning Staff Reporter 

The Hall Presidents Council discussed this year's United Way drive for student contributions at a meeting held last night in Alumni Hall. 
Professor Thomas Fern, who is in charge of the Notre Dame Unit­ed Way campaign, spoke of the importance of student in­volvement. 
"The goal of this year's cam­paign is for contributions from one half of the students on campus," F­rn announced. He explained that last year contributions from the st­
udents were made by a small percentage of the student body. 
"There are approximately 5600 student living on campus. Our aim is to increase the number of students becoming involved in the drive. No monetary goal has been established." he added. 
Methods of collection will be left of «:>ach hall to decide under the supervision of a three-man HPC committee. The committee members are Bob Quakenbush, executive coordinator; Jim Hussell. Holy Cross preident, and Mike Casey, Pangborn president. 
flossible collection nwthods. in­
eluding the use of pledge cares, 
wl're discussed. "This method 
allows for an accurate record of 
Marchetti to speak on CIA 
by Eileen O'Grady Staff Heporter 

Victor Marchetti, author of the current bestseller The CIA and the ('ult of lntelligt>nce, will speak tonight in Washington Hall at 8:00. 
According to Dennis Pijor, Student Union academic com­missioner, "He will speak on his book, the problems he faced writing and publishing the book, and personal experiences he had in the CIA which prompted hm to write the book. He then will turn over the discussion to questions from the audience." 
contributions to be kept," Fern 
commen~ed.Students would pledge 
a certain amount of money to 
be paid all at once or over a period 
of time. 

Selling shamrocks at one of the football games was also suggest­ed. Last . year fi20 dollars was raised at two football games through this method. 
TheHPC UnitedWay Committee 
will be meeting with represen­
tatives from each hall to make 
plans for the drive. The UnitedWay 
sponsors ~ major drive every Oct­
ober. This year's drive begins 
today and will continue until Oct­
her 22, 1975. 
Joe Corpora, Notre Dame Co­Exchange Commissioner, spoke on the food ticket exchange program between Notre Dame and St. Mary's. He stated he was "not pleased" with theway the program was going this year. 
"Of 100 tickets only 55 to 60 are being used by Notre DamP students every day. Everybody seems to be running out of tickets but they are not being used." Corpora mentioned the possibility of St. Mary's cuting back on the number of tickets issued if the situation doesiy't improve. 
Charles Moran of the Social Commission reminded the presidents oftheupcoming Arm01;y Party. "Tickets go on sale October I, 1975 at the Social Commission office and at dinner at the dinmg halls," Moran explained. 
"The homecoming tickets are still available," he continued "They are on sale from now untii homecoming weekend." 
Andy Praschak, a Notre Dme Cheerleader, outlined the current banner contest sponsored by the cherleaders. "The prizethisweek is 50 dollars," Praschak announced. "Any hall, section or individual is eligible to enter the contest," he explained. Contestants must contact the Student Ativities Office \7038) and tell the secretary where the banner will be displayed. 
Mike Welsh, the council's SLC representative,reported the results of teh SLC Budget Hearings. "The budget for the HPC this year is $.11.700," he said. "The SLC was light with moneythis year because of last year's vverspending,' w<'Ish l'xplained. "Cuts were made across the board." 
. Allotments for the Halls and An Tostal will be discussed at a future HPC meeting. 
*r-\HE--,.*
r;~9ocr,l TRADINc~ 
cs 0. 
THE SLEEVELESS COAT 
DOWN 
VEST, 
Perfect FQ.II out­activity. 
W'aYmth wifhout weight! 

IOOCENTER Mishawaka, IN 465*'+ 
Phone: 2Jq/2Sq-S213 

Six Concert Package 
SOUTH BEND SYMPHONY 
Student Prices $10, $8, .$6 
NOW ON SALE 
Student Union Ticket Office 
TODAY -FRIDAY 
c a n s i d e r t his !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Lib Ed 101 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii&pat ke a r n s 
No~ that we are a full month into the semester, it seems wor­thwhile to.spend a few moments. ~onsidering the essential parts of a~ educah~n-Even more spec1f1cally, we ought to examine our views of a hberal education. 
f<'irst of all, it is important to separate our understanding of the terms 'liberal education' from our personal experiences with that pearl of culture, for instance Freshman Comp & Lit and Space Cadet 404 double-majoring in modern philosophy and socio­psychoanthropology _There is no inherent Joss of contact with reality in acquiring a liberal education. In fact, the world around us should be all the more edifying as a result of this education. 
We should be all the more edifying as a result of this education. 
We should have a greater understanding of ourselves and our work and our globe. We should develop a sincere appreciation for man's history (as opposed to a simple adherence to the theory of evolution l for his arts, for his skills, for his piety, etcetera. That is 
a liberal education should give us a greater understanding of man as a whole. Certainly, we need to understand him as engineer, or as investment broker, or as architect, or as premed. But, more im­portantly, we need to know him as a man. Otherwise, we only focus on a limited number of aspects and we end up with a distorted view_ 
To give a couple of examples: The biologist who only knows man as an organism, shuts himself off from the wonders of man as thinker. (not just complicated matter in operation, but thinker), and free bemg and lover and image and likeness of God. Also, the student who only knows party-man and study-man, misses the boat carrying philosophical man and pensive man and (dare I?) Music Man! 
If w~ are willing to settle for a limited view of things, then we will be qmte content to see everything around us as the back of a beautiful pa!nt!ng. However! !f we make the effort to acquire a true apprec1at10n for a ChnstJan philosophy the fine arts the sciences, t~e business world, and our Church ~nd human so~iety, then we might stagger at the beauty and richness of the painting seen from the proper viewpoint. 
The suggestion here is that we take the time now to step back from the materials and time which have us locked into our own little worlds, and see whether our education is giving us more than skills and a diploma. Of course, we cannot expect much more than that if the courses we have chosen never touch on anything but the useful and our leisure reading centers on the profane. Indeed, a few drowsy afternoons in O'Shaughnessy Hall guarantee no well­formed view of things. A cafeteria-style study of philosophers where one picks a gargantuan serving of confused ration;dists and a sm~ll garnish of thomist~, provides neither a true understanding of philosophy nor a true philosophy for understanding man and the world. 
Only by taking some time to consider what we want to Jearn here at Notre Dame, will we be in a position to properly decide the thousand little choices each day which shape our education. Those decisions which focus and refocus our attention on man and God rather than on men and gods. 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
JIMMY, TRJJ5T OU/35? 11./HP:T 
IJI&U, TH&R£'5 SUR&. BUT !T'5 M&JrWJ-TH/3 ()(J&S? I WAS 
OTH&I< KINDS KINO OF P£RSONAL. ALBUM's Nar #IOV&RNIGHT 
OF F¥/IN, JIM .. I DON'T fe&L.. LJK& ~ BAf.IJJaO!WE SIJ(£.£55 /!J 
YOUR. ot: lADY SHARJN& IT al!TH 

: N&/3{) A /)/}8$ 19 I I 
£V£R HURT 
SMC Turkey? 
Dt•a•· Editor: 
A volunteer committee of sports enthusiasts from Notre Dame wish to announce their candidate for mascot of St. Mary's College. We feel a mascot occupies a very important position in generating esprit de corps in any collegiate activity particularily sports programs. A mascot is a unifying symbol and rallying point for the student body_ 
After much debate, during which dozens of qualified candidates were carefully screened, the committee has arrived at an unanimous recommendation. The Winner: that much maligned favorite of Benjamin Franklin, the Turkey_ Now before the readership does something drastic, a few moments of careful thought (counting to ten will do) should lead all except the most intransigent to conclude the Turkey is eminently qualified as St. Mary's College Mascot. Our fact finding mission revealed that the Turkey -is something we can all be thankful for it is 

a native American ·bird 

has feathers that are easily ruffled -spends much time preening -adept at struting its stuff -resourceful with· camoflage -skilled at avoiding hunters 
-requires constant attention -is very selective in its company, preferring other turkeys -even when fed a lot, responds at most with but a sing1e peck -been known to leave after laying an egg at its favorite 'watering spot' --does exhibit a strong natural instinct for nesting ~although not particularily bright, IS very aware of its place in the pecking orders -last but not least, with adequate preparation, makes a very good meaL At the present time, the Com­
mittee for the Advancement of the 
Turkey. is fattening one for 
presentation to St. Mary's College. 
If. by chance, our choice, in spite 
of its overwhelming claim to be 
chosen as mascot, is turned down 
because of lingering anti-turkey 
prejudices, we will have no 
recourse but to eat our modest 
proposaL O.K., you TURKEYS, d-e-e-e-fense, d-e-e-e-fense --­
Names withheld by request 
All letters to the editor should be sent to The Observer, Editorial Editor, Post Office Box Q or brought to the office of The Ob­server located on the top floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 
Only letters with names and addresses will be considered for print. Signatures will be withheld upon request, but signed letters will be given priority. 
All letters are subject to editing for length and taste, and should be concise as possible. 


Night Editor: Marti Hogan Sports: Bill Brink 
Assistant Night Editor: Chris Typists: Joan Martel, M.A. Keefe,Smith Mary Setlock, Mary Tobin, NeilLayout Staff: John O'Donnell 
ViiiJim Stevens Compugraphic: AI RutherfordDay Editor: Marianne Schulte Night Controller: Bob SteinmetzCopy Reader Fred Herbst 

Late Typist: Bob Steinmetz Editorials: Val Zurblis Ad Layout: Pat Russell 
r--------------------------­
The Observer 
on independent stUdent newspaper 

Founded November 3, 1966 

Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Manager 
EDITORIAL BOARD AI Rutherford. Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; K!'n Girouard. NE>ws Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil, Features Editor; Chris Smith, Photo Editor 
N•ws 28~)~1~71~S------~Bu~s~·n~•·~·~Z6:~)~7~47~1--------------4 
Wednesday, October 1, 1975 

Barbarians 
One of Webster's definitions of "bar­becoming barbarians: without injuring barian" is "an insensitive, coarse or and insulting others, without damaging the property of others, without giving the 
unmannerly person." Recent events 
a as

around here suggest that there are some University reputation 
students at Notre Dame who have taken a haven for insensitivity, coarseness and bad manners. Nobody expects students to
this definition as a code of conduct. For be perpetual models of refinement but ainstance: 
--Dean ofiSludents James Roemer has bit more class and respect could help. announced a policy of prohibiting One man who says he is going to do students from bringing cans and bottles something about the barbarians is Mr. into the stadium because the barbarians Roemer. Roemer is a lawyer so it is 
drink the alcoholic contents and throw perhaps predictable that he has stressed the containers at the other spectators; lhe legal aspects of the problem, for 
--Roemer is also threatening instance promising stern action against disciplinary action against the stripper those who damage property, commit because of danger to himself and others, criminal trespass and break and enter in damage to the Notre Dame image and the course of future panty raids. because his activity constituted public We trust that he does not mean by this 
that he would quickly or easily call in the intoxication; South Bend or Indiana law. Certainly this -Yesterday's letter column included a 
letter from an woman would be contrary to the family spirit at
ldianapolis who Notre Dame, which the Administration so had gum thrown at her and obscenities often stresses, as well as to the concept of shouted.at her by N.D. barbarians at the 
Purdue game; the University as a "Christian com­munity" capable of handling its own
--An entire hall hadtobe evacuated and one student was injured when some internal problems. 
We trust also that the University rulesbarbarians set off 13 smoke bombs; other 
bombs went off in crowded bars; on such matters will be enforced --A large food fightlbrokeout in the South "patiently", "personally" and with Dining Hall before the first,home game-­"compassion" as the University's 
on a pronounceme-nt in du Lac suggests.
campus supposedly committed to 
fighting world hunger--and the barbarians There can be positive and effeclive involved tried to walk off and leave the approaches to the problem. dining hall workers to clean up the mess; The first responsibility, of course, 
--It was only a couple of weeks ago that belongs with the student body: the 
more

the annual pre-season panty raid did responsibility to show a little 
several hundred dollars damage to St. respect for others and let the barbarian Mary's. minority know that no one else respects such behavior. Granted that this editorial is appearing The Administration for its part should in a student newspaper; that its authors depend primarily on those groups cloaeat 
to the students: the hall j-boards, hall
are students too and that some of them may have cheered the stripper or raided staffs, and the University j-board for St. Mary's their freshman year or even the enforcement of rules when "com­participated in a food fight. Granted that passion fails." (For instance Keenan Hall 
students in general have always been a has been able to halt food fights involving its residents simplyby having its j-board
rowdy lot. Granted that football levy a $10 fine on all fighters.)
weekends are a time to let off steam after long hours of studying and that' the sup­We are all a bit "insensitive," 
posedly adult alumni don't always act "coarse," or "unmannerly" at limes, but we can make a better effort to control
impeccably either. 

ourselves. And the students should be the Slill, Notre Dame students should be ones who do it.
able to have fun and let off steam with out 
P.O. Box Q 

-----~--­

.-------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, October 1, 1975 
the observer 

SMC plans career workshop 
by Mary Mungovan Starr Ht'porter 
Karen E. O'Neil, director of Saint Mary's Career Development Ct'nter. yesterday announced a career planning workshop to be held at 7: :!0 Thursday, October 2, in Madeleva Hall. 
The workshop, entitled "Career I<:xploration; Opportunities for Wonwn." is second in a series of five workshops open to junior and senior female liberal arts students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
"Our goal is to free stqdents of llw narrow sexual stereotype of jobs available to women and to broaden I heir knowledge of t'an•ers available to liberal arts graduates," O'N!.'il stated. 
Karen O'NPil has directed the <'an•Pr I>Pvelopmcnt Center for tlw past y!.'ar, after serving as Saint Mary's Housing Director the \'Pal' before. Prior to her ap­
jmintnll'nl. th!.' Career Develop­lllPill ct•nter was known as the Placement I ll'fice. 
"WP are no longer just trying to plaet• students in jobs," O'Neil ('Xplained, "Instead we're trying to lwlp studt'nts combine personal values. interests and abilities with 
career  expectations  into  a  life­ 
work scheme."  
The  first  of  five  workshops,"  

Self-Assessment and a Skill Identification", was held on 
September 25. According to O'Neil it was designed to help students see the liberal arts education as valuable and analyze the skills and 
interests; they had acquired. "We're starting on the assumptiOn that the student doesn't know yet what she wants to do, "O'Neil !.'mphasized. 
The last three workshops of the 
series will deal with "Formulating Your Personal Career Decision­Making Plan" (Qct. 9), "Resume Writing·' (Oct. 16), and "ln­t!.'rviewing Skills" (Oct. 23). 
In the last two years, O'Neil sees not only an increase in the num­bers of career-minded women, but a "shift in the kinds of careers women arc pursuing" as well. She l'itl'd the growing number ·of 
womt•n  in  law  school  and  
managenwnt  training  progarams  
as pxamples.  

·'There has been a decrease in num hers of women going to graduate schools in recent year." she comml'nted. "In this respect, Saint Mary's is following a nation­
wid!' trend. More students are opting for immediate job ex­peience." The career planning workshops are just one component of a larger Senior Program sponsored by 
the Career Development Center. The center is putting out a guidance manual for seniors, and 
By Dr. Yuill 
Encephalitis discussed 
by .Jorgt' F(•rriero ·The most prom1smg method of Sta H H t>porter control seems to be in the area of genetie engineering. This would 
The transmission of California Pssentially involve developing Pncephalitis in southwestern Pither a virus or mosquito which is Wisconsin was discussed by Dr. T­
non-infective to man, and allowing homas Yuill in the auditorium oft­
it to compete with its lethal count­lw <;alvin Life Science building erpart, according to Yuill. ~·esterday afternoon. An Pstimated 100 people turned out to h!.'ar Yuill, a professor at the lfniv('rsity of Wisconsin, speak on llw transmission of La Crosse strain virus whieh is transmitted to man by the mosquito Aedt>s lrisirialus. The La Crosse virus ('aUs!.'s California type eneephalitis 111 man. The virus is seldom fatal, hut r!.'quires extensive hospitalization. 
Yuill said that the changes man 

has brought in the ecology of -sout­hwestern Wisconsin have con­
a GeMta1 Store 
lributt'd to a large degree in the inneased number of encephalitis cases. The mosquito lays its eggs 
-'Mtterbeds ­in old tree stumps. With the in­ereascd construction in the area 
.DI 
and cutting down of trees, more t­

Also. such things as old tires, whieh collect rain, help in the 
!

reproduction of the mosquito. 
To further complicate matters, 
:

the rise in home building in the area has brought more and more : people into contact with the 
i **

mosquito. The cases of en­cephalitis reported thus far have occured mostly in young children. The reason for this being that the mosquitoes are most active in the 
* 


HELD OVER .. FORUM 1-l 
ltOIRTMtn:'NUM 
C#MICOmRAMPUMi 
I
JtJNN~£LAiiiD 
tr'U'MMILIS 
~ "FAREWELL, MY LOIIEI.Y" I 1,...~ ... ' 
""" ... H: 
ENDS THURS .. FORUM 11--. 
~ntAnu..tl \\ull '"' .. "'' 
Vittorio I)(· Sica's 
~'llr1cf
Vamuon 
''' ,_ II~ II IbN .\no.., lhl..w c.) •I'GCJI. 
--STARTS FRI. FORUM II--­


L••l•l"•t,o.,l • ;~ f!. ,.,.,. ·~ .. J>• ••• "" 0 · A b ''t J.. tt 1 •·•e-t.• ..,.\ p,.,.,..,~,,r.•.• 
BOX OFFICE OPEN MON. lhru FRI. 6:30P.M. SAT. and SUN. at 1:15 P.M. 

ree stumps are created as places in 
which the mosquito can breed. ~··•******************************************************************** 
serve as sources of the virus for the mosquito, and also the virus survives the winter in the eggs of 
!

the mosquito since the mosquitos die at the advent of the first frost. 
Since the number of cases ** reported annually is only in the vicinity of thirty to fifty, the profit 
i obtained would not be great Pnough to allow a pharmaceutical firm to develop a vaccine to the 
i

virus. Eliminating the foci of breeding 
will sponsor a campus recruiting often felt they had two strikes program, additional workshops, against them; they were women speakers and individual guidance andtheywere liberal arts majors," sessions. O'Neil commented. "Now I feel the 
chances of getting a job within six 
"In the past SaintMary'swomen months of graduation are_ very 
Women sports receive equipment, practice area 
(continued from page 1) 
personal  expense  in  traveling,  
greater  national  status,  and  
developing  state,  regional  and  

national tournaments in many sports. 
"Our Notre Dame women can then stand up proudly with them," commented Hotvedt. 
\\'onwn's Varsity Fencing 
Hotvedt pointed out that semi­professional models in bowling and softball have turned professional, and that there is even a professional volleyball team. The prize money is now similar to what men receive. "This affects what we do at Notre Dame," the women's coach said. 
"When women first came to Notre Dame, many club sports welcomed women as a part of them. even men's varsity fencing helped the women develop a team and a competitive spirit in fencing. 
With this ¥Ip, fencing will probably request varsity status." 
"I'm very sure we have the talent right now," continued Hotvedt. "From the first day of practice to the tournament, you need affirmative cooperation on all miscellaneous details that seem to smooth out with varsity status." 
For example, the coach or team eaptain is .responsible to get someone to line the fields or line up referees before a game. These people don't have to worry about such petty problems at the varsity level, Hotvedt explained. 
Napolitano was also optimistic of ·women's varsity status. He said that if women show more interest on both levels \club and in­tramurall, they can achieve what they want. 
"Varsity status in women's sports is in the near future. It's bound to happen," Napolitano commented. 
Napolitano also said fencing has a good chance to go varsity this ~-ear. and possible tennis next year. "If they compete on a good level it can go before the (athletic) board," he said. 
Krause sees varsity status as always a possibility. "It would be a sad mistake if we start a varsity program immediately, and then have the interest die down," he commented. "On a club basis,there is always the op­portunity to step to a higher level." 
Krause said fencing has a good possibility of becoming varsity. "If there is an interest for two or three years, we know there's an interest. In another two years we will know how sports now are going," he said. 
Stephens said varsity status will be obtained if sustained interest is demonstrated. "In my opinion, the first sport that may attain varsity status is fencing," he said. "This appears to be most probable." 
Hotvedt said the women have just about everything they want in the terms of equipment and practice times. 
ALL STUDENTS WHO PICKED UP SOFT COVER 
FRESHMAN DIRECTORIES 
AND SHOULD HAVE RECEIVED HARD COVER EDITIONS 
CALL: STUDENT UNION SERVICES 
7757 or 8701 by THURSDAY -5:00 p.m. 
Observer Reporters: ! 
i
Come to· !
• 
The First Workshop of the Year •j 
*
Party evening hours when young children are most likely to be in the 
!See how Carl and Bob broke the Watergate story i
woods playing, stated Yuill. The virus also occurs in spuirrels and chipmunks which can then 
i Find out how Jack Anderson gets his scoops .i 
Learn the basics of news reporting i 
* 
Thursday 7 -8 p.m. ~ * At the Observer office 
i 
-
of the mosquito is also not efficable due to the large numbers of rotting 
:JNEW REPORTERS ARE URGED TO A TTENrti
tree stumps and the vastness of the 
area in which the disease is en­demic. 
*************************************************************************·-11 

the observer Wednesday, October 1, 1975 
F. Lee Bailey to defend . 
Professor begins trial for coed abduction 

FORT WAYNE, Ind. <APl ­The trial of former Minnesota college professor Thomas R. Lippert, accused of kidnaping a Purdue University coed for a "love experiment," begins here Wednesday with noted criminal lawyer F. Lee Bailey heading the defense. 
Lippert, a 25-year-old assist­ant professor of business ad­ministration at Southwest State College in Marshall, Minn., was 

Burtchaell: 'Government contracts intrude upon rights and freedoms' 
(continued from page 1) 
requires schooling that is lengthy and costly," Burtchaell noted. "Why does the government not help us by putting its dollars where its Executive Orders are?" 
Power of the Purse 
In a critique of the theory behind affirmative action policies, Burt­chae\1 said that Constitutional safeguards wre inadequate to prot­ect citizens against government abuses of the power of the tax purse. 
"Practically any social policy could be enforced by making it a rider on government contracts," Burtchael\ noted. 
He conceded that such measures can and have been used for const­ructive social purposes, but em­phasized that the real issue is that "an entirely new power of government over citizens has come into being with virtually no constitutional limits upon its exercise." 
"As matters now stand," Burt­chaell stated, "in order to receive or administer federal or state funds, an individual or an organization can be required and sometimes is required to forfeit rights otherwise guaranteed to it." 
"No one can claim a right to be awarded a federal contract," Burtchaell observed. "Therefore, those accused of discrimination can be punished without judicial 

Spassky marries Frenchwoman, causes furor with Soviet officials 
MOSCOW <AP> Former clared, "I feel like I am play-religious currents of the Greco­world chess champion Boris ing against an opponent I can-Roman world, where it served as Spassky. overcoming a tern-not see at all and I can only the common coinage in the int­porary check by Soviet author-predict his moves." eraction of diverse religious
traditions.
ities in the game of love, mar-Spassky, who lost his world ried a Frenchwoman on Tues-chess title to Bobby Fischer in The study of wisdom traditions day and said the future looks 1972, said ·he was "never so hu-in antiquity has been largely bright. milia ted as in these last three confined to the wisdom literature 
''I hope this marriage will months since they started this of the Old Testament and of the 
give me an extra queen in my with Marina." ancient near-Eastern cultures 
chess competition," Spassky The affair caused widespread such as Babylonia. The new book 
joked at a Moscow wedding comment in the West, and last suggests that wisdom was also a 1 
palace where he wed Marina week Spassky said he was sud-significant factor in the history of 
Stcherbatcheff, a secretary at denly informed they could mar-Christianity and Judaism in late 
rhe French Embassy in Mos-ry when they wanted. antiquity. 
l'OW. 

r.-=====~=~====----==========:.
Difficulties blocking their marriage dissolved after Spassky and Miss Stcherbat­(·heff made their troubles pub­lic and invoked the humanitar­ian spirit of the declarations ,igned at the East-West summit 111 Helsinki. 
Spassky, 38, divorced his Hussian wife and began living with the 30-year-old Miss Stcherbatcheff in January. 
Early this month the couple said a year-old traffic charge had been raised against her and that the Soviets wanted her to leave the country before their scheduled wedding date. 
Miss Stcherbatcheff said the French were also insisting that she leave by the end of the 
month and the only weddingdate Soviet authorities would give them was Nov. 11. Spassky
pleaded for a new date, noting that the Helsinki declarations 
pledged the Soviets to facilitate marrjages of Russians and for-
that point,

At Spassky de-~~====~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~====· 
indicted on five counts by a was to i;lrrive here by private federal grand jury in Ham­plane late Tuesday and meet mond, Ind., on April 10. With Indianapolis attorney 
The indictment named Lip­James Neel, who also repre­pert as one of two men in­sents Lippert. volved in the abduction of Su­Presiding Judge Jesse Esch­san Wells Cochran, 20, Little bach of Indiana's northern fed­Falls, N.J., from the Purdue eral district has instructed both campus at West Lafayette, the defense attorneys and U.S. Ind., on Feb. 19. Atty. John R. Wilks that he will 
Bailey, taking time off from not permit public comment on preparing a defense for Patri­the case. ' eia Hearst in San Francisco, "We're under a protective or-
process by preemtory denial or withdrawal ol contracts." 
Notre Dame was one of 16 instit­utions threatened in June with loss of a federal research contract because their Affirmative Action Programs, revised and filed with HI<:W, had not then been approved by the Office for Civil Rights. 
ND Hefused "Extortion" 

Rather than risk loss of the contract. the University was of­fered the option at that time of signing a model Affirmative Ac­tion Program. 
"We refused to submit to this at­tempt at extortion," Burtchaell said, "and declined to sign a 42 page document. that would have made admissions and un­dertakings we regarded as both untrue and thoroughly unreasonable." 
The deadline for approval of Notre Dame's Affirmative Action Program has since been re-set with no loss in federal research grants to the university. 
In testifying at the Labor Department hearing today, Burtchaell stressed that "executive orders ought not to st­ray significantly beyond the defined boundaries of law." 
''Executive discretion is rightly left free to supervise the ac­complishment of contractual obligations," Burtchaell stated. "But when this same power is made into a weapon to create and 
impose public policy, then it int­
rudes upon the rights and 
freedoms of the people." 

"In conclusion," Burtchaell told thecommittee, "we recommend that the Department of Labor not be 
weak or indecisive in its policy of 

equal opportunity for all qualified 
persons to compete for positions in 
the field of higher education." • 

"But we also recommend," Burtchaell concluded, "that the Department refrain from imposing upon federal contractors ... rest­rictons or requirements that would not be countenanced by the Con­stitution or the law." 
Burtchaell testified on behalf of the University and of the College and University Department of the National Catholic Educational Association. 
Professor edits book on wisdom of religions 

A new book,Aspects of Wisdom in Judaism and Early Christianity, has been edited by a Lutheran clergyman and associate professor oftheology at Notre Dame, Dr. Robert L. Wilken. Faculty members from the University and other institutions have contributed essays for the book published by the University of Notre Dame Press. 
In Wilken's book wisdom is shown to be an extraordinary cross-cultural phenomenon that is found in different forms in all the der by the court," Neel said Tuesday. "It's not a gag rule, but Judge Eschbach is very strict on pretrial publicity." 
Neel, a 31-year-old graduate of Indiana University Law School, has handled several cases in the Midwest for Bail­ey, including the so-called "Torso Murder" in Indianapolis in which a woman was con­victed of dismembering her ex­husband. 
One hundred prospective ju­rors will crowd into Eschbach's courtroom at 9:30 a.m. EST in this northeastern Indiana city's downtown area. Jury selection is expected to last one day with the government and defense to. each take three days to present their arguments. 
Lippert, now free on $200,000 bond. was accused in the in­dictment of kidnaping Miss Cochran and taking her to Min­nesota ''for purposes of con­ducting physicial and psy­chological experimentation" on her. 
Judge Eschbach ordered Lip­pert to undergo a psychiatric examination b-y a Fort Wayne physician who found Lippert competent to stand trial. 
Miss Cochran was found un­harmed March 13 at the small southwestern Minnesota college where Lippert taught. Lippert and one of his students, Harold 
H. Tenneson, 21, were arrested. 
Lippert, a gJ,"aduate of the University of N6Jre Dame Law School, was suspended from the Southwest State faculty im­mediately after his arrest. 
Assistant U.S. Atty. Thor An­derson in Minnesapolis, Minn., said Miss Cochran's abduction and subsequent events revolved around a bizarre plan "to brainwash her so that she would love Lippert." 
Anderson said she was told "some sort of box" was being built in the basement of a home in New Ulm, Minn., where Lip­pert's parents live. He said the eoed "was forced to take off her dothes, whereupon she was wrapped in a cloth material and tied to a board. Nothing happened and she was released from the box in an hour." 
MAC'S RECORD RPCK 
$1 off any John Denver Album (WIND SONG 4.49) 
A full service record store 288. 1178 Next to River Park Theater 
Ir---------~~---------~. I
.

I  VITAMIN c 500MGM.  TABLETS  I  
II  $1.09/100 tablets (LIMIT 5 BOTTLES PER COUPON)  
I I  AMERICA'S BEST BRAND  AT  
I I  SOUTH BEND'S LOWEST PRICE  
I I I I  Jlexa/1- 
I I  MAR MAIN PHAA\1\ACY  
I  426 N. MICHIGAN  
IL  (Next to  McDonald's'  234  - 3184  •  

-------------~---------­
THE SENIOR CLASS 
PRESENTS 
BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID 
PAUL NEWMAN ROBERT REDFORD KATHARINE ROSS 
TONIGHT 
7-9-11 pm ENGINEE G
R I N AU D IT0 R I U M 
$1 .00 
._________________________,
eigners. 



.....-------------~--­
Wednesday, October 1, 1975 
the observer 

7 
Offered $25,000 
Treasury agent solicited to kill President 
WASHINGTON <AP) -An  said. "We have not as yet proc­ 
undercover agent of the Bureau  essed any formal charges, and  
of Alcohol, Tobacco and Fire­ as it stands now we will not do  
arms was offered $25,000 within  so."  
the past month to kill President  Nestor said the incident oc- 
Ford, the director of the bureau  curred on Sept. 11, the day be- 
said today.  fore Ford spoke at Kiel Audito- 
Hex D. Davis, in a statement  rium in St. Louis. The attorney  
prepared for a Senate subcom­ said he did not know how long  
mittee investigating the Secret  the man involved in the in­ 
Service, said the individual who  l'ident was detained or whether  
approached the agent was ar­ he was released before Ford  
rested the day following the of·  left the area.  
fer. after sufficient evidence  Nestor refused to identify the  
was gathered.  man or say precisely where he  
In his statement, Davis said  lived, except to add: "He's  
only that the incident occurred  from the immediate area."  
in a Midwestern city during  Nestor did not say whether the  
St•ptember.  man was armed.  
"This was up in Belleville,"  It was in St. Louis that a  
said Asst. U.S. Atty. Mike Nest­ man with a .45 caliber pistol  
or at I<:ast St. Louis, 111., 13  was spotted by a policeman on  
miles north of Belleville, Ill.,  a catwalk in Kiel Auditorium  
across the Mississippi River  an hour before Ford was to  
from St. Louis, Mo., where the  speak. The man escaped de­ 
President spoke on Sept. 12.  spite an extensive police  
Nestor said the individual in­ search, and the President spoke  
volved in the incident was a  on time and without harm.  
man and that he was detained  It was not immediately clear  
and questioned, but not  whether that incident and the  
charged. "There was informa­ offer of money for Ford's death  
tion with reference to a mili­ were n•lated. Neither the White  
tant organization," Nestor said,  House. the Secret Service nor  
·'but nothing tangible was ever  the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco  
ascertained or learned about  and Firearms of would not  
that at all."  comment.  
"The Secret Service in- As Davis made public the of­ 
vestigated on the basis of the  fer to kill Ford, the President  
information we had," Nestor  asked Congress for an addition- 

Spanish executions 
deemed 
MAI>HID. Spain IAPl -A policeman died Tuesday of wounds from a holdup blamed on Basque separatist guerrillas amid growing tension in Spain, as Wl'll as continuing protests a broad. over the government's t•xeculion of five convicted po­liel' killers. 
l'rl'mier Carlos Arias Na­\'UITO prepared to go on tele­\'ision to address the nation. And in apparent support for the rl'ginw, scores of young Spaniards took to the Madrid streets in cars and motorbikes, honking horns and tossing handbills exhorting people to gather before the national pal­ace Wl'dnesday to "show our indignation" at foreign pro­tests. 
Till' death of one of two po­liceml'n wounded ill the $600,000 robbery at a government bene-
Accepts gifts for recreation hall 
(continued from page 1) 
resident of Youngstown, Ohio, will 
serve a three-year term. She is a 
former president of the Alumnae 
Association. 
Sr. M. Margaret Michael King, 
C.S.C., will also serve a three-year 
term on the Board. She is the 
regional superior of the midwest­
t•rn region of the Sisters of the 
Congregation of the Holy Cross. 
Andrew J. McKenna, Jr., 
president of the Schwarz Paper Co. 
in Chicago and resident of Long 
Bl'ach. Ind., has also agreed to 
serve a three-year term on the 
Board. 
Kay Howard Boyle, president of 
the St. Mary's College Alumnae 
Association, joined te Board in and 
ex officio capacity. 
Student Body President Joan 
McDermott, a senior and resident 
of Lake Forest, III., is the new 
student representative. 
In addition, Dr. Stanley J. ld­
zerda and Eli J. Shaheen were 
reappointed to the Board. 
Sr. M. Basil Anthony O'Flynn, C.S.C., was elected chairman of tne Board, replacing Sr. Catherine f<'rancis Ford, C.S.C. Re-elected to office were Walter J. Simons, vice­chairman; and Jordan Hamel, treasurer. Sr. M. Bertrand Sulljvan will continue as secretary. 
atrocious 
fits office Monday in Barcelona raised to 19 the number of po­licl'men killed in political vio­lencl' since January 1974. 
A tough, new antiterrorist law adopted by the regime of !12-year-old Gl'neralissimo Fran­l'isco Franco requires the death penalty for persons convicted of killing policemen. 
The firing squad executions Saturday of five men -two Basques and three. members of an urban guerrilla group brought an international outcry, including demonstrations, at­lacks on Spanish embassies, work stoppages and the recall of more than a dozen ambassa­dors from Madrid. 
U.S. Secretary of State Henry 
A. Kissinger planned to raise the issue of the executions at an afternoon meeting with Spanish Foreign Minister Pedro Cortina Mauri at the United Nations in New York. A senior Aml'rican official has said Kis­singer was chiefly concerned about possible weakening of Western security caused by Spain's rising isolation because of the executions. 
There were also protests and strikes in Spain itself, mostly in the three independence-minded Basque provinces in the north. 
Communists, Trotskyites, Maoists and other militant left­ists were prominent in West European street protests against the executions by the right-wing Franco government. But official protests came from Pope Paul VI and from anti­Communist governments, many led by democratic Socialists who have opposed Franco since his 19:!6-39 civil war victory. 
The Franco government was 
reported continuing with plans 
to try 15 other Basques on ter­
rorist charges, and legal 
sources predicted at least three 
would get the death penalty. 
Their lawyers said the courts­
martial could begin early next 
week. They had earlier pre­
dicted the proceedings would 
begin this week. 
A government spokesman said only that the cases were in the hands of investigating mag­istrates and that justice would take its course. 
al $13.5 million to pay for in­year. creased Secret Service ex­Among items the money penses. would be spent for, Lynn said, 
James T. Lynn, the Presi-are: dent's budget director, said the -150 more agents and 132 money would be for fiscal 1975 more support personnel to in­and a transitional quarter when crease protective services, in­the government's budget sys­cluding protection for presiden­tern changes to the calendar tial candidates and foreign vis-
CLASSIFIED 
FOR SALE 

Quality Stereo Components at 20-40 percent savings. RMS Audio 321 S. Main 288·1681 12·7 PM. 
3 Chicago tickets for sale. Call Jerri 4041. 
For sale: 2 GA MSU tickets. Call Mike 3251. 
For Sale: 1Q.speed bike, $50. Call Paul or Larry 3207. 
For Sale: stPreo, Sony HP610A. 20 Watts RMS, dual turntable, 12" 2W speakers $350. Paul 8131. 
STEREO EQU I PMENT·major brands at substantial savings; all factory sealed under manufac. turer's warranty. Elliott En. terprises 233·3769 aftl'r 3:30 PM. 
-

For Sale: 1971 Gremlin-X, Big-6, stick, 20 MPG, sharp. 283-3093. 
-

LOST AND FOUND --.. ---·­Lost: Glasses-pink tramPs with 
pink lenses.  RPward.  Phone 7607.  
- -­ 
Gray kittpn  found  outside  LeMans  

Friday night. If you own or know who does, pleas!' call 6815. 
Lost: Eyeglasses lost outside stadium aftl'r Northwpstern game. Call 6845. Ask tor Ellil'. 
-

Lost: a lighter with map of Ger. many near library. Call Mark 289· 8924. 
Lost: Kt>ys with leather tag"Sally" bi'IW<'Pn Farley, LaFortune and St. Ed's. PIPase call 6728 mornings or latl' night. 
FOR RENT 
-· 

StunPnts or faculty, 5 rooms, fur. nishpd; privatE' utilitil's furnishl'd; spcurity dPposit; npar campus. 1002 CampPau St. Call 234·7925. 
NOTICES 
-

BEST PRICES IN TOWN!! Jen. niter's, 119 w. Colfax 11:00.5:30 Mon..sat. ­
Quick Loans: Morrissey Loan Fund. 
Up to 30 days, 1 percent interest. Basement of LaFortune. M-F, 11:15­12:15. 
Will do typing, I'Xpl'rienced. TPrm 
Pap!'rs, manuscripts, etc.  Call 233·  
8512.  
.  

Fran says: I just want you to know that you qm count on me for all your dance instruction nPPds. LParn the fad dancps; namely: Bump, HustlE', Young Frankpnstl'in; plus your formal dances; namPiy: foxtrot, waltz,rock and cha.cha. ClaSSI'S T. uPsday and Wednesday aftPrnoons, from 3·5. $2 PilCh class. Faculty, Staff and Studpnts invitl'd. Join us for any class; always a bl'ginnPr group. 
-

Typing. 35 cents ppr pagl'. Call Dan 272·5549. 
-

Typing: ExpPriencpd in Sl'nior <'Ssays, dissertations, I'IC. RPasonable, accuratE' 232·5715. 
"Gay Guide to Notrp Dame.south 
BPnd.'' $1.00, at Pandora's or writ!' GSND, Box 206, NotrE' Dame. 


Six concert package, South Bend Symphony, student prices $10, $8, and$6. Available at Student Union Ticket Office, Monday thru Friday. 
WANTED 

Need 2 GA tickets for MSU. Call Mike af-ter 6 PM 288·0088. 
-

NPed: 4 GA tickets for Michigan Stall'. Call Joe at 287·5113. 
Wanted: 2 usc tickets, 7812. 
Wantl'd: Desperately need 2 GA Michigan State tickets. Call Mike or Ann after 6 PM at 272.5884. 
Need oneGA Michigan State football ticket. Call Jean 5486. 
Wanted: 2 GA Mich. State tix. 233· 5373. 
-

Wanted: Need 5 USC tickets and 1 MSU. Mary 1285. 
Need 4 MSU tix. Call Maurice 3382. 
NePdPd: 4 tickets to Pittsburgh game. Call 4300. 
Nt>ed 2 Michigan State tix. Cali 1630. 
Students earn while you learn part. 
lime contact work afford extra in. 
com!'. For appointment 684·4396. 
Nt>ed 2 GA MSU tickl'ts. Call Alice. 5494. 
-

Nt>ed 3 GA MSU tix. Call 8772. 
Nc>eded: 2 GA USC ticki'IS. Call Mikl' 6939. 
Nt>l'd riders to Phila. Oct. 2-5. Both ways; sharP expPnSI'S. Call Dave 8361. 
Wanted: 2 pr4 MSU GA tix. Call Drt'W 3272. 
WantPd: 2 GA tickets for GPorgia TPch. Will pays. Help! Call Mary 5135. 
Will trade 1 GA MSU tickl't for 1 GA USC ticket. Call after 6 PM 289.6535. 
-

Need 2 tix for MSU game. Call 272­0495. 
Need 2 GA tickpts to Pitt gam!'. Call Lisa 8089. 
---·--­
Nel'd 2 USC tiCki'IS. Call Dave 1741. 
NPPd two tix to Mich State. Will pay' Call 291·3075 bPfore noon or after 6 PM. 
-

Nepd two GA tickets to SouthPrn Cal. Call 7471. 
NPed two GA tickets to Michigan Stall'. Call 7411. 
Nt>l'd 2 or 4 GA tix for Southern Cal. Call JPan 7034. 
Rich Alumnus will pay more for 4 USC tix. Call Jim at 8904 for info. 
-

Need MSU tix. Will pay. Call Scott 1762. 
Help! Will pay $15 apiece for 2 or 4 MSU tickets. Call SuP 7973. 
Nepd two GA tickPts to MSU gam!'. G a r y 1 8 0 2 . 
itors, at a cost of $5 million. 

-Increased travel and trans­portation costs and replace­ment of vehicles, at a cost of $5.4 million. 
-New security gates at the White .House to prevent "un­authorized entry by motor ve­hicles, at a cost of $600,000. 
ADS 
Desperately need two Southern Cal tix. Call Bot. 3665. 
N<'ed two tickets to MSU. Will pay $$$. Call Jim 1777. 
-Need 2 or 3 GA tickets to MSU. Call Mark 1475. 
-
Wanted: three MSU tickets. Please call Mark 256·1206. 

-
Good money paid for any home tickets. Call John 1816. 
Need 4 USC and 5 Navy tickets. Will pay well. Please call 5168. 
Nt>ed 4 MSU and USC tickets. Call 3648. 
-
Need four Chicago tickets. Call 3537 and ask for Matt. 
Need 2 GA tickets for Michigan Stat· t'. Will f...tY $$. Call 189·8352 pr 288· 0952. 
Desperately need GA tix to Mic. 51· alP. A> many as 6. Call Steve at 8624. Will pay$$. 
---­ ----Need  
2 Navy GA tix.  Will pay.  Call Jim  
272-6792.  

Wan!Pd: 2GA tix .Jr Msu cash or I· rade student tix lor other games. 289·4350. 
Will pay C Note for 4 GA tickets to MSU. 272-6290. 
OthPrs spPak of sea and death. Alii NPPd arP 2 SouthPrn Cal. Tickets. I'm Mary at 6680. 
3 studPnts looking lor 4th roomatl' at Campus View. 272·2701. 
NPed 2 Mich State tickets for a job nPxt uear. Please call Mike 1438. 
Havl' 4 USC fix. Want to trade for 4 MSU tix. PIPase call 5280. 
WantPdl GA tix for Southern Cal. Call 6896. 
DespPratPiy nPed i GA Mich. Stall' and 1 Southern Cal ticket. Pat 1583. 

Wanted: 1 Mich State ticket and 3 Southern Cal tickets. Call Dan 1219. 
NPed two So. Cal. Tix. Call Murph 287·0742. 
N<'l'd travpl companion to tour Europp nPxt semPSIPr. Call 1425. 
---~---~­
Nl'Pd MSU ticket. Will pay$$$. Call Paul Privitera 289 8113. 
NPI'd ride MWF from PortagE' & AngPia to ND. Can leavE' 9 AM or Parlil'r. Call 289·8015 any evpning. 
PERSONALS 
Flash! Dear Trenchcoats! You droppPd something in Huddle Sat. night. More info: check your drawt>rs in rooms 416 and 405 Cavanaugh. 
Happy 25th AnnivPrsery Mr. & Mrs. Murphy. Your loving son, KPvin. 

·l 
I I 
... 

the observer Wednesday, october 1, 1975
8 

... 
Ali stops Frazier in 14th by TK 
SCHUYLER JR.

By ED Ai the end Frazier's face was And it worked. 
Writer

AP Sports a mask of lumps. His eyes look­At the opening of the 12th ed like glass and they were round, the 33-year-()ld cham­
MANILA <AP) Muham­nearly swollen shut. The 31-pion, who had looked every bitmad Ali stopped Joe Frazier's 
year-old man his age in the six previous
strength-sapping body attack, simply was fin­
ished. rounds, drilled six shots to Fra­pounding Frazier's head lop­
sided with powerful blows But for a time it looked as if zier's head. Then, after Frazier
that Smokin' Joe might become the drove hi into the ropes, Alistopped the challenger after the third man in history to regain ripped eight more clean shots14th round here Wednesday the heavyweight championship. to Frazier's head and Joe wasmorning to retain his world 
on his way to his last hurrah.

heavyweight championship. From the fifth to the 11th 
In the 13th round, Frazier

rounds, Frazier had the best ofIt was a war and Ali fired the it, jolting Ali with lefts and opened with a body attack, but 
most accurate and telling shots by now his punches were lack­
rights to the body and occasion­
as he pounded and pounded al bombs to the head. ing their earlier steam. Ali rights and lefts to Frazier's seemed to sense it.
Ali desperately tried to find ahead in the 13th and 14th solution to the relentless pur­The champion fired a one-two 
rounds that closed the. challeng­to Frazier's head and another
suit of the man he lost to in theer's eyes and had him reeling. first of their three fights. But hard-right to the head and then 
After Frazier groped to his came back with a series of five
Frazier kept charging.

corner after the 14th, trainer straight head punches. After a
Then, with his title seemingly
Eddie Futch signalled to refer­brief pause, Ali buckled Fra­
slipping away,

ee Eddie Padilla Jr. that the Ali, who has ris­zier's knees with a left-right to 
so times

game challenger could not coo­en many in his spec­the head.
tacular

t inue. And the fight was and controversial ca­Ali might have done more 
stopped. reer, went for Frazier's head. 
damage then, but he slipped and briefly lost the initiative. 

But in the 14th round, it was all Ali. Like this: a left-right to the head, a right to the head, a one-two, and after a body punch by Frazier, there was a series of head shots fired with lightning speed that had the It seemed as if Frazier was from further punishment and at 
challenger reeling around the about to go down. The bell, the same time sent the former ring. ending the 14th, saved him champion into retirement. 
Interhall football starts 
by Fred Herbst seconds remaining in the game. win a rugged defensive battle. Each club had several serious Neither team could move the ballThe 1975 Interhall Football scoring opportunities, but errors as the defenses dominated play.
season opened Sunday with a full 

frustrated both teams. Cavanaugh Fisher 8 Alumni 7
slate of games. Stanford beat Holy 

gave up two interceptions while Dino Carbone intercepted an
Cross 6-0; Zahm turned back 

Zahm threw one. Alumni passand returned it to theKeenan 6 Grace 0 12 yd. line where Kevin Lynch th­
defeated Grace 6-0 in North Quad 

Defens-e paved the way to rew a scoring pass to Charlie
action. 

Keenan's victory over Grace. The Schrorer. Lynch then passed to
Ali draws a large crowd wherever he goes. In South Quad action, Morrissey Keenan defense limited Grace to 30 Jay Rafter for a two-point con­
routed Howard 34-0; Sorin shut out 

yards offense and just three first version and a 8-7 wi.
Off-Campus 6-0; Fisher edged 

downs. Alumni's Mike Squillance
Alumni 8-7 and Dillon nipped 

Keenan played a ball control capped a 70 yard drive in the
Pangborn 6-3. 

offense in the second half, at one second quarter by scoring on a
Stanford 6 Holy Cross 

0 stage running off 16 consecutive three yard run. Alumni held on to 
plays. With five minutes its lead until Lynch's pass with 42
The Irish Eye 
Stanford successfully opened 

remaining in the tilt,John Feeney seconds remaining.
their season with a 6-0 win over 

connected with Greg Wilkes a on ­
Holy Cross. Stanford scored the ()ilion li Pangborn 3 
on a 44 yard scoring strike.
game's only points on 60 yard

a Morrissey :14 Howard 0 Bill Griffin scored on a seven 
pass from Dom Garda to Tom 

Morrissey dominated play ~·ard run early in the fourth quarter 
Thauss.

This Saturday the Notre Dame students will get a chance to show just through out its contest with to give Dillon its opening game
Garda passed for 108 yards, all to

how much class they really have. . Howard. Jim Lincer, Wally win. The winning score was set up
Thauss, to pace the Stanford at­

Last weekend the football coaching staff was presented w1th a Nashert, Dan Buckly and Tom by a :l4 yard pass from Griffin toT­
tack. Keith Ugone added 51 yards

predicament. When the Irish's starting. quarte~back Rick Slager was Gorman each scored touchdowns im Holroyd.
rushing on seven c~rries. 

for the winners.
jarred and took himself out of the game m the first quarter, sophom?re Pangborn had taken an
Steve Gaylib led the Stanford 

Howard's offense was never able
Joe Montana, who had been competing with Slager for the. startmg Parly lead on a 27 yard field goal by 
defense,which forced Holy Cross

position all fall, came in to repla~e him. Montana responded m superb to get moving against the Span Nicholson, a barefoot kicker.
into three turnovers. Dave Wenke\ 
Morrissey defense,led by Greg
fashion leading the Irish to a 31-7 victory over Northwestern. * The interhall contests continue
and Charlie Murphy also played a

Mont~na's performance was no doubt well-received, but it did put the Soznovich and Kevin Mur­tonight with three games sch­
stron defensive game. phy.
coaches in a touchy situation. They are now back where they were at the Pduled for the astroturf at Cartier
Zahm 7 Cavanaugh 0

beginning of the season, having to ?ecide. be~ween Slager and Montana Sorin 6 Off-Campus 0 fireld. Zahm takes on Stanford at
In an error-filled contest, Zahm

for the starting job this weekend agamst Michigan State. John Rommanelli scored the 7:00, Holy Cross plays Keenan at 
quarterback Ken Sobolewski swept 

By virtue of his play on s.aturday.' Mon.tana would appear to have the game's only points early in the ll:OO and Flanner meets Grace at 
around right end to score with 45 

first quarter and Sorin held on to 9:00.
clear edge. He engineered five scormg dnves, passed for one touchdown, ran for one and led the offense to its highest total yardage output of t~e THE STUDENT UNION OF NOTRE DAME PRESENTS season. Also, the students loved him. They livened up when he came. m, 
Irish harriers

chanted "let's go Joe", and cheered every time he dropped back to,pass. It seems like an obvious mandate. But is it? . . . Maybe it is as far as the students are concerned, but the fmal dectston 
defeat Spartans

lies with Dan Devine 1and his staff. This staff perhaps the best in the country, chose Rick Slager as the 
by Mike Towle 

number one' quarterback at the beginning of .the season. It was not an arbitrary decision. These men have a combmed total of 106 y~ars of 
By placing five runners among

collegiate coaching experience among them, they ~ave worked v.~t~ and 
the first eight finishers, the Notre 

watched over both players for months. They are m the best position to 
Dame cross country team downed make the choice. Michigan State, 24-36 at Burke Golf 
And the choice is one of those difficult ones that coaches welcome and 
Course on Friday.

dread at the same time. For no matter who they name as the starter, 
Michigan State All-American, 

someone gets hurt. If Slager starts, Montana will have to wo~der what Herb Lindsay placed first in 24: 12 more he has to do to earn the job. If Montana starts, Slager will feel the ahead of Irish runners Jim Hurt pain of having been deposed. and Steve Welsh, who placed
This is unfortunate.'Neither player should have to feel bad at all, but second and third respectively.rather should be proud and encouraged that their skills are of ~uc~1!8 Hounding oout Notre Dame's caliber that even the finest coaches in the country have trouble ptckmg 
scoring wer Dennis Vanderkraats between them. . in fifth position, Jim Reinhart in 
Pride is generated within, but encouragement can come from outs1de, sixth and Joe Yates who cane and the Notre Dame students can give more encouragement than anyone across in eight place. else to a Notre Dame player. If Joe Mo~tan~ starts Satu!day, the students 
Notre Dame's victory, their first 

have already shown that they will provtde support. ,If Rick .Slager ~tarts, 
in eight years over Michigan State, 

they should respond with nothing less. Each has led the lrtsh to vtctory, 
leaves them at 2-1. On October 10, and certainly each deserves \the students' re~pec~.. . . . . they will host the Notre Dame Fans may not always agree with the coaches dectston, mdeed It IS the~r 
Invitational. one of the most 

right to hold different opinions. ~ut once the coaches make the!r 
prestigious cross country events 

decisions, they do not have the right to ·,blame the playe~ fo! thetr 
in the country.

disagreement with coaches. If the coaches are wrong, they ll fmd out about it soon enough. . 
Track meeting

This week is crucial. The Irish will have enough trouble beatmg a tough Mchigan State team without having to worry about lack of fan support. 
A meeting will be held for all

Whoever starts at quar:terback for ND will be the co~ches' choice, and he 
those interested in joining the 

will need the encouragement of the students to spur h1m on. , varsity track team, on Tonight,
... 
And the studentslshouldiprovide it, because that shows class, and that s Oct. 1, at 5 p.m. in the auditorium what the Notre Dame student body prides itself on. of the ACC. 

Muhammad Ali retained his heavyweight boxing title by defeating Joe Frazier in the 14th round in Manila. 







