$1600 behind Big Ten pay 
Faculty Senate approves salary statement 
by Kathy Mills vestigation of the development of Senior Starr Reporter the situatuon of grade inflation." McCabe said the investigation
The Faculty Senate accepted has a "two-pronged approach." Itand approved without dissent a involves information on gradesstatement on the faculty salary from the administration actuallysituation prepared by the Com­awarded and this survey of facultymittee on Faculty Affairs at last regarding the attitudes andnights mP-eting. 
preferences on grading standards. 
Prof. Irwin Press, chairman of "I am not sure whether we know the Committee on Faculty Affairs, it <grade inflation) is a problem or presented the report and em­not," commented Prof. Robert phasized, "Our goal is to get our Kerby, vice-chairman of the requests across in such a way so Faculty Senate. 
that the University cannot dispute ''We know it is a statistical fact," our figures." he continued. "Whether we're to do anything about that or not
This report compares the depends on faculty attitudes on the
average increase for 1975-76 faculty salaries at Notre Dame problem." with the average raise for faculty Survey Necessary at seven of the Big Ten schools. 
Kerby added a thorough surveyThe statement says those seven of faculty attitudes is thereforeschools received an average raise needed to determine what action, if of 8.2 percent, while the increase at any, should be taken.
Notre Dame was 7.75 percent. 
Various Senate members voiced 
The report further points out objections to certain parts of the "the Big Ten's 8.2 percent raise questionnaire.(compared with 1>Ur 7.75 percent One member stated the increase! puts them fully $1,600 questionnaire does not dif­ahead of Notre Dame's average ferentiate between graduate and median salary." undergraduate grading. He 
Press also noted, "We are thought it should do so. Other comparing ourselves to the members objected to the wording average of the Big Ten schools of certain questions. salary as we did alst year. We The Senate passed a motion to don't compare ourselves with leave these comments and individual schools; we have to go discussions to the discretion of the with the averages." Committee on Student Mfairs. 
Prof. James Cushing, member of In presenting a report from the the Faculty Senate, remarked, Committee on Collective "The real thing is how much we Bargaining, Cushing, who is 
are behind in chairman of the committee, an­
actual amounts." 
The statement also says Notre nounced George Horton from Dame salaries are, on the average, Rutgers University will speak in 14 percent above their 1973-74 favor of collective bargaining level. However, the cost of living Tuesday, November 18, in the 
University Club .
has risen over 20 percent since that 
time. This is part of a series of 
Gallup vieW's opinion trends
This report calls for "a serious discussions on collective 
attempt to close permanently the bargaining in conjunction with the gap between ourselves and those American Association of by Jim VVinters Gallup. Politicians, labor leaders On social issues, students
Staff Reporter

institutions with whom we must University Professors <AAUPl. and advertising executives are remain more liberal than the compete for the very best faculty Later the Faculty Senate ap­The· "average college student" also widely distrusted. country at large. A slim majority and students." proved the motion that the distrusts politicians, but hopes t­College professors are the of students favor the legalization of Executive Committee also invite to hey will legalize marijuana. He is students' most admired marijuana, in contrast to over­Heport Released these discussions a faculty suspicious of big business, yet professionals, he continued, but whelming opposition to member who is unfavorable to largely ignorant on economic Ralph Nader is their favorite legalization among non-students. The Senate also passed without collective bargaining. matters. He is twice as likely to personality. An "explosion of volunteerism" 
dissent a motion that the report be "Both sides should be advocated call himself "liberal" than Student Opinion is occuring around the country. 
distributed to the faculty, ad­by people of equal ability," pointed "conservative." His viewpoints Nearly forty per cent of students
In many cases, Gallup con­
ministration and board of trustees, out Prof. John Lyon, who in­will probably prevail in the coming would support compulsary
tended, the anti-business views of
and that it be published as an troduced the motion. decades, pollster George Gallup government service ( either
students "spring from a lack of
appendix to the minutes of the Jr. told a Washington Hall military or non-military) for
The Senate also voted to turn I understanding of the free en­
meeting in Notre Dame Report as audience Thursday night. college students upon graduation.
over to the Committees on Ad­terprise system." Students tend to
a permanent record. Gallup, president of the
ministration and Faculty Mfairs overestimate corporate profits and 
American Institute of Public Growth Towards Liberalism 
In other business, the Senate consideration of the issuance of underestimate the of labor
Opinion and conductor of the cost 
approved a motion to distribute to contracts to summer school and tax payments, he explained. Polls also indicate that the older 
Gallup Poll, told the crowd of 250

the faculty a questionnaire on faculty. a student is, the more likely he is to
that a national survey indicated This ignorance extends to the 
grade inflation prepared by the Ker.by, in introducing the strong sentiment against larger society: One woman in­be liberal. Fifty three per cent of 
toCommittee on Student Mfairs. motion, pointed out no contracts businessmen and politicians on the terviewed for a Gallup sampling college seniors were disposed 

take left-Qf-eenter positions onProf. Sheridan P. McCabe, were issued to summer school nation's campuses. thought the European Common most issues in a Gallup Poll, aschairman of the Committee on faculty last summer, and they will Seventy percent of American Market was "the place where opposed to 47 per cent of juniors, 40Student Affairs, explained the reportedly not be issued this students believe the moral stan­average people shop over there." 

percent of sophomores, and onlyquestionnaire is part of "an in-summer. dards of businessmen are low, said 

30 per cent of freshmen. Gallup Poll attributes this 
growth toward liberalsim to .the fact that older ·students were in college during such traumatic 

Extension of Thanksgiving 
national episodes as Vietnam and Watergate, and added that a 

break denied by Hesburgh
by John Shaughnessy A sour~e at the Law school noted now would also mtertupt the plans student's cynicism seems to growStaff Reporter that, unhke undergraduates, law of professors who have set up their the longer he is is away fromstudents began classes on August class schedules. 
home.

The possibility that the 25. . . . Jones agreed, "The class time One third of the students saidThanksgiving vacation will be Sr. John Mma'? Jones, assistant has been assigned and a change teachers influenced their views,extended is just another unfounded to the provost, said another for the might disconcert the professors. 
generally in a more liberal-direct­rumor, according to Fr. Theodore rumor is the ·:hope. of stu~ents" It's a little late to tell them they'll ion.

Hesburgh, University president. 
that the extension will be given. have to give up one or two days of 
The planned Thanksgiving break lectures." A Gallup sampling of
Several reasons were offered as small is from Wednesday afternoon, to why the Thanksgiving break According to Harold Moore, Princeton University students 
November 26 to Sunday, revealed that "Mao Tse Tung gets 
would not be extended. assistant professor of philosophyNovember 30. According to the Pa~zesn~ st~te~. "From a almost every teacher has planned a more favorable rating than 
rumor, the break would have been either Harry Truman or Dwight
practical viewpomt It would make their courses with the originalextended one or two days or no sense.. People h~ve already schedule in mind. To change now Eisenhower." Gallup said that 
possibly to include the entire week. 
made their reservations to go would disrupt these plans he although that sampling was too 
"I'm sure it won't happen. It's 
home. It's kind of late to be stated ' narrow to be considered completely without foundation-­statistically accurate, he did not
changing any~ing ·" Prof~ssor Philip Gleason of the
just a rumor," Hesburgh stated. doubt its conclusions.
He. also cited the need for. a history department agreed, "I th­Hesburgh 's comments con­c~rtam nember ?f class days Wit-ink we might as well stick with the 
firmed the denial of the rumor by Students Ahead
hm the academic calend~r. ~r. break we have now. I'd just asStudent Affairs' officials. James Burtc~a~ll. Umverstty soon proceed on the meeting of Historically, college students Brother Just Paczesny, vice­provost, has said m the past that classes I have planned rather than have been ahead of the rest of 
president of student affairs, had 
there must be 72 class days per rearrange things." America .n their opinions on 
said, "There is no foundation to the semester. Yesterday, Burtchaell John Roos associate professor Vietnam, Watergate, and other rumor. School will continue as 
could not ~reached for comment. of the gove~nment department, issues, Gallup reflected. usual on those days." He :-vas m W_est Lafayette at-cited the need for time to "pull The pollster said he would not be 
Several sources, including 
tendm_g a meell_ng. . together" the subject material of a .mrprised if this pattern continues Paczesny, stated the rumor 
Assistant yice-President of course as another reason for not with regard to current issues as the probably began when the Law Student Affairs, Fr · Terry extending the break. He said, "I legalization of marijuana and the 
School extended its break. The 
Lally, noted that. there wo~d be syml)8thizr with the pressure but trend toward volunteerism. 
Law school cancelled classes on pro_blems of feedmg people 10 the I don't see any solution." Today's student opinion. he Wednesday. November 26. 
dinmg halls. He added a change (continued on page 11) (continued on page 11) 



George Gallup Jr. {Photo by Chris Smith) 
L 

the observer Friday, November 7, 1975 
~~~~~~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;---~ SMC Commission 
warld briefs 
SEOUL, South Korea AP Louis W. Truman, nephew of the late President Truman .laid a wreath Thursday before his uncle's statue near the truce village of Panmunjom. 
The nephew, a Korean ·warr vereran and retired Army lieutenant general, arrived Wednesday for a three-day visit at the head of a nine-member trade mission from Georgia. 
MINEOLA, N.Y. AP A mother whose 16-year-old daughter died after a respirator was turned off had told doctors to take no unusal measured to keep the dying girl alive, it was disclosed Thursday. 
The mother and an aunt visited Mary jane Dahl shortly before her respirator was discovered unplugged, but the mother denied either she or the aunt had pulled the plug, allowing the terminally ill girl to die. 

an campus taday 
friday, november 7, 1975 

12:15 pm --lecture, "a paradigm for the sociology of knowledge" by edward maier, first In a serieeson "human values & 
ways of knoing", library lounge.  
12:15 pm  -­ travelogue, "whaies!" by dave galvin aud.  morgan,  room  278,  
5 pm  -­ evensong vespers, log chapel.  
5:15pm-­ mass and supper, bulla shed.  

6:45, 9, 11 pm film, "deliverance", knights of columbus bldg., $1. 7, 9, 11 pm --film, "dirty harry", engineering aud., $1. 8 pm --world travel series, "israel -then and now" by clay 
francisco, o'laughlin aud., $2. saturday, november 8, 1975 

10:50 am --multi-media show, "notre dame in revies" washington hall. 
1:30 pm --football, "georgia tech at notre dame". 6:45, 9, 11:15 film, "deliverance", knights of columbus bldg., $1. 
8 pm --concert, "crosby and nash", ace, tickets, $5 & $6. 
sunday, november 9, 1975 

6:45,9, 11:15 film, "deliverance", knights of columbus bldg., $1. 8 pm .. recital, "student plano recital" by patricia joan cahalan, little theater. 
St.Mary's conducts survey to determine nickname 
by Sue Ballman "The committee, which acts only Staff Reporter as a screening device, received a wide variety of names. The names 
St. Mary's will conduct a survey, basically fell into the categories of on Mon. Nov. 11 and Tues. Nov 12, animals, nature, religious, and to determine the opinions of the those having something to do with student body on the school Notre Dame," she noted. nicknames chosen by a special "The committee did, however, committee, according to com-try to chose names that directly mittee coordinator Cathy Coyne. related to St. Mary's and some that 
The survey will occur on the Le didn't. It discarded those names Mans side of the cafeteria during affiliated with Notre Dame dinner. Each person will be because St. Mary's has an identity allowed one vote and names will be of its own with its own teams," she checked. explained. 
The students will have a choice "The kids are really en-of five nicknames: the "Rascals," thusiastic," stated Coyne who has the "Bandits," the "Bells" or received both positive and "Belles," the "Smicks" and the negative feedback. "Marian Lakers" or "Lakers." "These names describe the 
The survey will include a box character of the school," observed labeled "none of the above" for freshman Molly MacCourtney. those who feel that these "However, they are not really nicknames will not properly appropriate for a team name represent the school. Students will because they don't promote en­also be invited to make comments. thusiasm," she added. 
"If two or three names receive a "I would be embarrassed to be large number of votes, then they represented by any of these will go back to the student body for names. The best one I've heard so a referendum. If the majority of far is "Turkey," stated one the students do not like any of the sophomore. names, the contest will probably Shannon Mahoney said "the have to start over again," stated contest should be closed and Coyne. reopened agained. People should 
"The nickname must be start taking it more seriously, something everybody wants. The because I don't want to be survey will give everyone a chance represented by any of those to express her opinions," stressed . names." 
******************-~******~********}
.. 
. 


:· NOW OPEN 
:1

* WE CATER FOR 
: 

:. VICTORY PARTIES 
KEG BEER 
: (IN STOCK) 
:cATERING_ 

-AWAY GAMES ­
~SPECIALLY 

+-TO THE WE CATER FOR 
+-ND-SMC 

BUS TRIPS
~COMMUNITY 

t PHONE: 259-0261 HOUR.S:!FREE MON-SAT 
l 
l
f 
I 
• 

~ DELIVERY 9:30-MIDNIGHT ··~~Vq.~~~~~.~J~~~~~J~~:l~ ............ 
plans bazaar 
by Tom Conaty Staff Reporter 

The St. Mary's Social Com­missionyesterday announced 
a St. Nicholas Bazaar will be held Dec. 8th and 9th in the lobby of LeMans Hall. The bazaar will include the selling and exhibiting of arts and crafts, plants, Christmas gifts and imaginative articles. 
Social Commissioner Molly McKenna said that people in­terested in selling goods should begin planning now in order to have their items ready for the sale in December. 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's community and the public are invited to sell and exhibit their goods. 
St. Mary's Social Commission will sponsor the selling of per­sonalized Christmas stockings. They may be purchased empty for your own stuffing or they will be delivered by the St. Mary's elves full of Christmas treats that Thursday and Friday. 
SMC is also having a raffle for a gift certificate from a major women's clothing store in South Bend. All proceeds will go towards the development fund for the new St. Mary's recreation center. 
"We are hoping for good student participation and this is a good time for people to display their talents in many creative ways," said McKenna. 
Any interested participants for the bazaar should contact Mary Anne at 284-4612 or the Social Commission office from 1-4:30 Mon.-Fri. at 284-5420 or McKenna at 284-4600.
* the observer 

Night Editor: Dan Sanchez Assistant Night Editor: AI Rutherford Layout Staff: Marti Hogan, Thomas Stejskal Day Editor: Maureen Flynn, Margie lrr Copy Reader: Fred Herbst, Mary Egan Features: Gregg Bangs, Tom O'Neil 
Editorials: Pat Hanifan Sports: Tom Kruczek Typists: Thomas O'Neil, Neil Viii, Tessie Clemens, Willy Heylman, Neil Viii Compugraphic: Bob Stein­metz Night Controller: Martha Fanning 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during exams and vacation period~. The Observer is pubI ished by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor 10 dollars per semester ( 18 dollars per year) from The Ob· server, Box Q, Notre Dame, In diana, 46556. Second Class postage paid. Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
now appearing in the Mail 



GRAND OPENING 
******************* REGISTER NOW FOR FREE PRIZES 

2313 EDISON ROAD (CORNER EDISON & IRONWOOD) 
LIVE MUSIC 
FRIDAY-SATURDAY-SUNDAY 
******************* 
289-5555 
FOR CARRYOUTS 
plush 


George Graves 
Pouch Hoom 

SPIRIT OF ST. LOUIS 
(This weekend -no cover charge with student J.D.) 
HAPPY HOUR Mon.-Fri. 4:00-7:30 LADIES' NIGHT Tues. 8:00-10:00 MEN'S NIGH! Thurs. 8:00-10:00 
PIZZAS, SNACKS

EVERY MONDAY·REDUCED PRICES 
& SANDWICHES

ON BEER AND BAR DRINKS 
SERV-ED ArifY-TIME 7 ft. TV screen for

Appropriate attire required for admittance 
Monday night football. ~~~i!~~I!~~~~···";;Arn:erica's Finest Show and Dance Bands Six Nights A WefiiK. 
THE HEADQUARTERS

~~~1-J.J~~l--~'~~ PLAiA, IRISTOL ST. (IYPASS 1l'J) ELKHART 
~--------·--------------­
-~----­

~--~­
-----~-­
Friday, November 7, 1975 
the observer 
3 

Accused of aiding revolution 
Priests of Holy Cross arrested in Chile 
by Pat Cole frequently many people are not Chile. They must meet un­state have been good. The church "Their function is to give economic allowed to come back to Chile
Starr Reporter derground to avoid persecution "dfidn't think that the government aid and support to politicalwhen coming into conflict with the since they take a leftist political began when the oppression con-prisoners," Garate said. "But
Members of the Holy Cross military government. position. 
tinued by the government." even . they have suffered per-Congregation have denounced the "After the coup in September of "Today more than 50 per cent of secutJOn. One lady of the com­

"An important function of the

arrest of a Holy Cross priest by 1973," Garate said, "a Lutheran party is to help the people in the people are undernourished," mit tee has been taken into asylum Chile's military government and bishop on vacation from Germany asylum," Garate continued. "The he said. "Many times anyone can and no one has been allowed to seeits search for other priests and was not allowed back into the Church refuses to give up this come into your home. This has her although she expecting a childsisters accused of aiding country." 
caused more separation in soon.
stance since there is no way for the 

revolutionaries. Garate explained that "not only /people to protect their human Church and · state ." "All the people want is someRev. Gerald J. Whelan, C.S.C., Fr. Whelan has been arrested, but rights." Garate spoke of the Committee justice," he declared. ''But there48, was arrested and imprisoned quite a few laymen also." 
"Thus it is the belief that anyone for .Pe~ce in Chile, and is no concern for human rights.
Sunday. He was charged with 
"I was exiled from Chile for who could help someone in op­orgamzabon formed by the church This is a manifestation to crush the giving medical aid for members of helping the people. I wanted to to help the oppressed people. church."
pression should join the cause.

the underground Revolutionary 
work against a dictatorship," 
This is what Fr. Whelan has done," 

Left Movement (MIRJ. 
explained Garate. "I wanted to Garate added.
Arrested with Whelan was Msgr. 1------------------I
assist the people in escaping '".a"""'" -COUPON-Rafael Maroto, former episcopal 1torture." 
Church and State in. Chile

vicar of Santiago. Another Holy Cross priest, Philip T. Devlin is being searched for on similar ch­arges; three sisters, Helen Nelson and Paula Armstrong of the School Sisters of Notre Dame and Peggy 
Lepsio, a Maryknoll sister, and two Jesuit priests, Patricio Cariola and Ferdinand Salas. 
Rev. William M. Lewers, provincial of the Indiana Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross to which Whelan belongs, said the priest is being kept in solitary confinement and faces possible military trail. 
~'our of those involved, including Whelan, are Chilean citizens and Maroto and the two Jesuits, ac­cording to Lewers, are prominent members of the Chilean clergy close to Santiago's Cardinal Raul Silva Henriquez. Whelan and Devlin and two of the sisters were administrators in St. George's School, which was seized by Gen. Augusto Pincohet 's junta shortly after its September 1973 coup. Both 
Holy Cross priests had continued to work on educational projects in Santiago, one of them under Cariola. In all, there are 18 Holy Cross priests in the country. 
"Apparently no one arrested or sought is accused of sedition," Lewers said. "In effect, they are 
charged with an act of Christian ministry--helping the wounded." 
Lewers said he was working through the United States Catholic Conference, Vatican authorities and the U.S. State Department to secure release of those arrested as well as the safety of those soulo'(ht. 
Theodore Hesburgh, president of Notre Dame, criticized Chile's military government. Hesburgh said this week's actions "reveal a shocking pattern of religious repression which can only further isolate Chile's government from that of any nation respecting 'tiuman freedom and dignity. "I think the state is declaring war on the church." 
It is a real tough thing," Hesburgh continued. "About a half dozen members of the Holy Cross congregation have been thrown out of Chile. We have the best school in Chile--rather we had the best school. The military government has taken control to use it for their own goals." 
Hesburgh spoke of efforts to solve this problem with Chile's military government. "I have talked with the president con­cerning the government's actions with the church. But what can we do? Not much can be done when the government has their guns in their own country." 
Exile at Notre Dame 

Martin Garate, a gradutate st­udent in economics at Notre Dame who was exiled from Chile two years ago, commented on the recent arrest and searches for clergymen. Garate said that 
Areosmith tickets on sale Monday 
Areosmith will appear in concert at the ACC on Thursday, Nov. 20, at 7:30p.m. Tickets will go on sale Monday, Nov. 10, at the ACC only and at other outlets, including the Student Union, on Wednesday, 
Nov. 12. Tickets are $6 and $5. 
Garate revealed that groups like the Revolutionary Left Movement, Garate said that formerly 
I olcK·s e FREE -I 
a political party, are banned in relations between Church and 
IJ lli ~~~~~ "OIL CHANGE" I
I I
E CORBY Oil Motor 

1 7/1sr-wRECKEtr& wnH ruNE-uPI / Iii ROAD SERVICE MOTORlUNF-UP~-~-(BRING COUPON IN)
BRAKE SERVICE '~­

I 
WHEEL -=-DIAL ALIGNMENT 234-0707

I D.ck Kruk -Owner MON--SAT. 7am-11pmI 1102 So. Bend Ave. SUN. 9am-9pm South Bend, Ind 46617 (DISCOUNTS NOT AP·I PLICABLE TO SPECIALS) 



SAVE •150.80•••• REALISTIC® STEREO COMPONENT SYSTEM 
(priced for people whose taste exceeds their budget!) 
An economical starter system that speaks quality from the inside out: Realistic STA-4 7 AM-FM stereo receiver, two MC-1 000 walnut veneer bookshelf speaker systems and Realistic LAB-34 changer with base and $17.95 value elliptical cartridge. There's only one place you can find it .. _ Radio Shack. 
Components Sold Separately . . . _
39980 
South Bend -Scottsdale Mall 
• .• "4 ••

.. ..... . .. ... ·, ..... . 
. .. • • • 'I • • ~ ... • * • "' 


,....----------------~ ---~---------~---------------­
turnout which will be held at a time
by Chris Hopkins 

later than the end of this semester. 
Staff Reporter 

According to Bonita Bradshaw, chairperson of the group, aA new element of halftime en­majority of the coaches are verytertainment known as "The much for the idea. The group hasDancin' Irish" will officially come no intention of taking away frominto existence, hopefully, by late the highlight of the band.
February. 

Edmund O'Brien, director of the The lJancin' Irish is a combinat­band, when asked about the 
ion drill and dance team which will "Dancin' Irish" responded, "I do precision drills and "boogie" would rather not comment at this dance routines at halftime. The 
time because I do not have all the group will soon perform at only facts, and as far as I know this 
some of the basketball games. group is not an University 
The Organization Committee for organization." the "Dancin' Irish," consisting of O'Brien's comment leads to the 
38 women, must remedy a few largest problem now facing the problems. The group is in the "Dancin' Irish." At a meeting of process of drafting its final con­this group last night Bradshaw stitution which includes regulat­explained the group's situation, ions for the tryouts, uniform "Last May, we submitted our 
specifications and other rules proposal for recognition to Fr. including University regulations. Schlaver and we received his The group meets twice a week to verbal approval. However, when 
discuss such problems. Fr. Schlaver left so did any The number of girs who will be evidence of our proposal being members of the "Dancin' Irish" approved. I talked with Mr. will be determined by the tryout O'Brien last evening who 
suggested to me the best route to 
follow in receiving our new
ND's moot court 

University recognition. So, we will team to compete be resubmitting our proposal to 
Student Affairs this week."
A national moot court team ot When Bradshaw talked with Bro. 

Notre Dame's Law School is Benesh, Assistant director ofcompeting Nov. 6-8 in the 26th Student Activities , his responseannua. Chicago Regional com­seemed favorable. "His mainpetition. Arguments are conducted concern is financial necessity.

in the Chicago Civic Center. 

There is very little chance of 
The two top teams in the Chicago receiving money from Student competition wll go on to compete in Affairs this year since their budget the national finals in mid-is already fixed. Other than that, December. Argued this year is a he saw no problems. He also said hypothetical situation involving an that the "Dancin' Irish" would fit antitrust case in the United States in on the same level with the band Suoreme Court. and the Glee Club."





r----------------­
' SENIOR . I
IFOOTBALL WEEKEND: 
' t FRIDAY: DEATH MARCH ' ILCAMPUS VIEW 12:00-2:00 ,' tY1EET A&P PARKING LOT 2:00 t Bridget's 2:00-3:00 t 1 Corby's 3:00-4:00 t t Nickie's 4:00-5:00 1 Library 5:00-6:00 
I 
t t
I SATURDAY: LAST HURRAH. t ARMORY PARTY I 


FIRST SHOP OF ITS KIND IN INDIANA 
• SALES· PROMOTIONAL PRODUCTS • 
CLYDESDALE BUSCH® MICHELOB® A&Eagle 
THOUSANDS OF ITEMS TO CHOOSE FROM: 
WALL-PLAQUES PUB MIRRORS "BUD" TELEPHONES FURNITURE BEACH TOWELS COOLERS SHEETS & PILLOW CASES SKI CAPS ·SCARVES • T-SHIRTS TIFFANY LAMPS • ASH TRAYS PLAYING CARDS • TOTE BAGS SKI SWEATERS • HATS
t 
SALT & PEPPER SHAKERS oa'if. :~..J BEAN BAG CHAIRS 
HASSOCKS· LAMPS {! ~· ~~ WOMEN'S SLACKS MEN'S SLACKS SHIRTS· JACKETS CHAIRS • MUGS ICE CHESTS GLASSWARES 
FLASHLIGHTS COASTERS POOL CUES BLANKETS 
KEY RINGS BANKS • STEINS LIGHTERS PILLOWS • RUGS ® CARD TABLES SERVING TRAYS WALL CLOCKS CAN HOLDERS NAPKINS· • • PEWTER MUGS AND MANY SWEAT SHIRTS MORE ITEMS


~oriU~
BOTTLE OPENERS FROM WHICH BELTS • • • TO CHOOSE
ltd 
100 CENTER COMPLEX 
I Singles $3.00 t 
MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46544
t Couples $5.00 t 
259·0886I Tickets: St_u~ent Union Ticket Office t STORE HOURS: 10:00 to 9:00 DAILY SUNDAYS 12:00 to 6:00 I Dtntng Halls 1 
~----------------~ 

r Friday, November 7, 1975 the observer 
Faculty protected 

Confidentiality assured recommendations 
by Vickie Zimmer 
Starr Reporter 
Notre Dame has taken steps to 
assure the confidentiality of 
faculty recommendations, Dr. 
William Burke, assistant provost, 
announced recently. 
These steps have been taken due 
to the recently passed Buckley 
Amendment that opens all of a 
student's confidential records to 
his inspection. 
As a result of complaints from 
universities across the nation, the 
original law was amended to limit 
the law to records gathered by 
universities after Jan. 1, 1975. 
Parents' Confidential Statements 
of financial status were an ex­
ception; under the amendment 
these continue to be confidential. 
The original measure and the 
amendment of it, both introduced 
by Sen. James Buckley, Cons­
N. Y., prohibit colleges from demanding waivers· in connection with services which are required by the college. The University is, however, requesting waivers for letters of recommendation. 
At nine locations on campus, a stamp reading, "I hereby waive any rights I may have to examine this confidential recom­mendation," will be available to faculty members wishing to use it. The stamp carries a space for the student's name to be printed and for the student's signature. Use of the stamp on the covering sheet of a faculty recommendation will insure that the student subject of the recommendation 1 will not 

Business morali to be discussed 
"lllusions, Delusions and Some 
Hevolutions in Business Morality," 
will be the topic of the final address 
in the St. Mary's Contemporary 
Issues in Business and Economics 
lecture series. 
Dr. Ronald N.M. Horning, chairman and professor of sociology at St. Mary's will present the lecture at 7:30p.m., Tuesday, Nov. 11, in Carroll Hall, located in the Madeleva Memorial Building. 
A member of the Society for the 
Study of Social Problems, Horning 
is also affiliated with the American 
Sociological Association and the 
North Central Sociological 
Association. His research and 
publications have been in the areas 
of blue collar crime, and black 
business and black enterorise. 
Horning received his B.A. 
degree from Kalamazoo College, 
and his M.A. and PH.D. from 
Indiana University. 
The lecture, sponsored by the 
College's Department of Business 
Administration and Economics, is 
open to the public without charge. 
Mew Orle1n1,19U. In these d1y1 words didn't buy much. 
,.1-..l'ltlUIIIIl""'tMNl, 
ALAWRE~E GORDON P!oduciiOn 

I'IARD 
lii~IES 


to see a recommendation I wrote for
have access to it, either in a Notre Science, Hayes-Healy, Cushing bland restatements of their Dame file or in a file at the Hall of Engineering, and the Law academic record that would not him, it wouldn't bother me, but recommendation's destination, School; the faculty steno pool in t­help the admissions committee there is a certain value to con­Burke said. he Library; the Graduate School dPcide anything.'' fidentiality. If a faculty member 
Burke said use of the stamp was Office and the Mathematics Office. will not give a student a good
Uavid C. lsele, asst. prof. of 
recommmendation, it's his
completely optional for faculty and music said, "If a student wanted
Dr. Phillip Faccenda , resoonsi · · ell the st dent."
added that a faculty member could not legally refuse a student request university counsel, in an interview for a recommendation on the last year noted that the University 
th• 
HOUSE SPECIALTY
grounds that the student declined could not officially weigh non­to sign such a waiver. confidential recommendations less 
.~Vhi!itle PRIME RIB
than confidential ones but 
Double Ca
The stamp locations are the suggested that students who re­Registrar's Office; 'Dean's Offices tained their right to examine the 
: I top wEo. , 1"ua., srEc\Al
in O'Shaughnessy, Nieuwland letters would risk getting "simoly
,.............................. 
sovrft ~eND, WO/A~t~o lURf &SURf : TIMM PARTY STORE : 
TERRIFIC COCKTAIL • fi\et 
$ 695 

11 A.M-to 2 A.M.
• OPEN : MON -SAT 9am -11 pm • 

PRIVATE MEETING r~·irlo~bfst~er~:;;::J
ROOMS FRI &
: SUNDAY 12noon -11 pm : 
15-75 
PE P 
E ''All y~~r. SPECIAL
• COLD BEER,WINE, LIQUOR, • 
FROG LE CAN EAT"
: GORMET FOODS : 
s 



~ s..,..., Gs_ 
"' ~ ;:; • 
~ Frlflclt ...!_, ~6 95
:3114 S. 11 St. NILES, MICHIGAN: 
o··~\ i ~~ r,_
: "BIGGEST LITTLE ! • LIQUOR STORE IN Mir.HTGAN" • 
602 So. Walnut (Formerly lrvins) 


Amone 
-sav· tip rom yourfast friend in 



SouthBend. 
Some people who fly West for vacation there's no way you can get to O'Hare for less break never even get on a plane until they money. or in a shorter time. or with less ha<isle. reach Chicago. They don't realize they can So flying United from South Bend is actually save time, trouble, even money by flying the cheaper, quicker, and easier than rolling down 
friendly skies from South Bend, instead of the toll road. traveling hy bus or car to O'Hare. For Friendship Service to 5Y cities from For example, one-way Coach airfare from South Bend, call your Travel Agent. Or call South Bend to Los Angeles may cost $4.00 United at 2J2-4Hll. Partners in Travel with more than the same ticket from Chicago. But Western International Hotels. 
The friendly skies of yourland. 
DOONESBURY 
AMY, I 

~ ~1.~deQ2.~~!ver stoma., ENOUGH/ I FEAR. 
Foundt'd Novf'l'll!wr 3, 196tl 
Terry Keeney Edolor-on-choef 
FOR. YOfJR
Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Adverlisong Manager 
II/ELL.-BEING! 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
•\I 1-iullwrford. Man~g•ng Editor. Jim Eder. Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor. 
~<-··n G•ro11ard_. N•-ws Ed•tor; Bob Mader. Campus Editor. Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; KPn Br~dford, Copy Editor. Bill Brink, Sports Eoitor; Tom O'NPil. Fpatures Editor. 
Chris Smith, Ptwt·> Ed,tor 
Nrw\ 2~~'~'-'~'~_________B_"'-'"-"-'_l_B_l_14_7_1______________~
1 
Friday, November 7,_ 1975 
by Garry Trudeau 
AMY, !:S a»f­MIJN K/f JfllH)6E 
MY 7HitT 700 MUCH 
IUUL.-M!WTAL. ;~tXA710N 8e/NG, ON A LAOYtFTEN NATE-? u:ADS 70 ,II/IIPNESS ANO smR/I.JTY.
\ 

P.O. Box Q 
AMY, 7HAT5 


students' First Amendment rights of freedom of speech and ex-
Offended 
pression in certain areas. My primary point of reference is Cohen vs. California, 403 U.S. 15,
Alum 
(1971). In this case the Supreme Court of the United States reversed Dear Editor: the conviction of a man who was arrested for "disturbing the 
As an old alumnus who was peace" because he was wearing a fortunate enough to get back to the jacket bearing the words: F---the campus to see the Southern Cal draft (with the dashes filled in). game, I have to pass along some The majority opinion written by reactions I had while there. What Mr. Justice Harlan speaks directly has happened to Notre Dame in the to many of Dean Roemer's con-last few years? Why did the hall tentions. decoration contest degenerate into Roemer compares the "Dillon a race to see who could come up signs" to loud nofses, citing a with the dirtiest, most off-color landlord's right to abate such a 
signs? severe private nuisance. The State . Dillon Signs amusing I can un-
Who were the fools who thought in the Cohen case made exactly the that smut in the form of signs on same contention stating, "This the dorms and banners carried distasteful mode of expression was around the stadium at the half was thrust upon unwilling and un­going to help beat Southern suspecting viewers." The Court California? Smut never won a stated, "In this regard, persons football game and it never will. confronted with Cohen's JaCket Notre Dame doesn't need smut to were in quite a different posture assist its teams in athletic con-than, say those subjected to the tests. Notre Dame has done too raucious emissions of sound trucks well for too long a time to require blaring outside their residences." the assistance of the misdirected The Court suggested, "avoid souls who conjured up the "funny" further bombardment of sen-signs. sibilities by averting one's eyes." 
Since the Court then has clearly 
Smith A. Funk, '50 distinguished Roemer's com­
parison of sounds and signs what 
remains is his discussion of 
community sensibilities. The 
Court in Cohen looked to the ab­
surd end and stated, "Surely the



Banner Rights 
state has no right to cleanse public 
debate to the point where it is 
grammatically palatable to the 
Dear Editor: most squeamish among us." The 
Supreme Court could find no 
While I do not challenge Dean ascertainable general principle for 
Roemer's right to enter a student's stopping short of that result and in 
room for reasons delineated in the the light of the diversity of student 
student's housing contract, I do attitudes and the absence of any 
challenge his attempt to legally regulation, I would assume that t­
legitimatize this university's he University faces the same 
conscious decjsion to suppress the dilemma. 
The court solved the problem statmg, "For while the particular four-letter word being litigated here is perhaps more distasteful than most others in its genre, it is nevertheless often true that one man's vulgarity is another's lyric." "The Constitution," continued the Court, "leaves matt­ers of taste and style to the in­dividual." Mr. Justice Harlan concluded the opinion by noting the function of words as conveyors of emotions which "practically 

speaking, may often be the more consider this!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! important element of the overall message sought to be com­municated." While I, personally , find the 
derstand the University's position and I do not vehemently protest 

T.V.'s Sell Out their removal. I only ask that Dean Roemer cease to snow us with his "legalese" and admit that in the interest of retaining this University's Catholic character 
-------------------p a t kearns
and to avoid the embarassment of 
those people who keep this University operating freedom of expression will have to partially curtailled. I know the students would understand. 
Robert E. Connolly 

Grim and White­Faced Test? 
Dear Editor: 
Dean Roemer's fumbling efforts 
to justify his invasion of the 
privacy of student rooms and his 
interference with freedom of ex­
pression provide perfect 
illustration of the reason why 
Notre Dame administrators can 
not be trusted with discretion in 
ti}ese areas. 
with -that kind of interpretive 
sleight of hand at work, very little, 
if anything, remains of his 
theoretical acknowledgement that 
the University does not have an 
absolute right to enter room. 
In this connection, one wonders by 
what stretch of the imagination the 
standards of our usually absent 
President and those of Mr. Stephan 
can be equated with those of te ND 
community, especially in view of 
the fact that signs of this nature 
have been endemic on ND-USC 
weekends for the past eight years. 
Apparently,no thought at all was 
given to the opinion of the most 
populous element of the com­
munity --the student body. It 
would have been more relevant, 
but obviously less helpful to 
Roemer, to have cited the tests 
utilized by the Supreme Court at 
various times to justify govern­
mental intrusions upon freedom of 
expression. 
To that gallery, which ranges 
from the "bad tendency" test 
through the "gravity of the evil 
discounted by the improbability of 
its occurring" test to Justice 
Holmes' "clear and present 
danger" test, Dean Roemer has 
added a new star: At Notre Dame 
we now have a "does it make 
Hesburgh grim and white-faced" test. 

Even a casual glance at the television listing for any evening of the year gives one the intellectual hives. And the actual viewing of several prime time shows brings on an intense moral indigestion. 
There may be people who actually like the idea of having all sorts of garbage dumped into their living rooms via the "idiot box", but let us hope there are not very many. At least, let us consider both the realities and future possibilities for television programming before we thoughtlessly allow ourselves to become Hollywood's latrine. 
We do not have to be educational television freaks to feel offended at the juvenile ~ubject matter of the current talk shows, situation comedies, variety shows, and social-commentary-while-keeping­them-laughing programs (e.g. All in the Family). It really does not take long to grow weary of the double-meaning one-liners. <Unless of course, one is a big fan of those oh-so-witty placecards hung from the dorm windows all over the south quad on a recent football weekend.) 
Now, there are a number of people who have challenged this recent trend toward 'anything goes' broadcasting. (For example, Anthony LaCamera, the T.V. critic for the Boston Herald­American) Typically the response to any challenge reeks of pseudosophistication. We must accept all this garbage in the name of "realism". The poor naive puritan must open himself up to the real world of perversion and bigotry and rampant immorality. The Hollywood hot-shots have to open up our eyes to the "real world". How can we expect to "mature" without occasionally lapping up all the grossest aspects of human existence? How can we dare to criticize vices until we have viewed them in all their darkest manifestations? 
These are the kinds of questions which presume to ask us why we ever reject evil once we recognize it. Following this ludicrous logic, we find it necessary to wait until our flesh has half rotted off before we go to the doctor. After all, how can we condemn the disease before we really see it fully?!? 
Not since early childhood have most of us needed to rely on only personal experience to teach us what is good and what is bad. The conscientious objector (as opposed to the cowardly draft-dodger) does not feel obligated to experience the evil of war before he refuses to get involved with it. Nor do we need to stomach detailed rape scenes, criminal glorification, and obscene language on the screen to know that rape, crime, and obscenity exist and are bad. 
What about the "realism" in the family programs? Certainly, it is not as disgusting as that advocated by the yellow press film makers. However, it is just as phoney, Unlike the "reality" presented by the networks, the real United States includes people who love their spouses (one spouse for life), want many children, go to church, and work forty hour weeks. And no matter what the 'beautiful peeople' think, these people who have the courage to live decent lives are the glory of this country. Our television heroes have personality, but they are absolutely devoid of character..It is the man of character who leads a life worth viewing. If we have a soft spot for good humor then we should prefer the noble wit of a man of substance to the strictly slap-stick (both verbal and physical) clowning of a foolish jester. The former gives us real comedy, the latter "real" guffaws. 
-The fact is that right now the greatest means ot mass com­munication in this nation is being manipulated by an essentially amoral gang of Hollywood money mongers. Some of us would like to know why we should sell out on our most fundamental human decency. As St. Thomas More says in A Man for All Seasons, "For 
Wales? Why, Richard, it profits a man nothing to give his soul for the whole world ... But for Wales!" All we get are cheap thrills in exchange for our invaluable human dignity. 

Lawrence J. Bradley, J.D., Ph.D. 



Once upon a time, when I was a young child, there was a boy named Christopher in our neighborhood who was adopted by a butterfly. As I remember the creature, he had large, yellow wings tipped in brown. Among butterflies, I don't know if there are male and female of the species, but from the size of ours, he looked as though he could father whole fleets of butterflies, and grand-sire lesser moths as well. He certainly adopted Christopher. Out of all the children playing in the field that July morning, it was Christopher's shoulder he lighted upon. Christopher had the burden and the glory of bearing him through the heat of the day, though any one of us kids would have died with pleasure for the honor of being chosen to have his shoulder used as a sanctuary where butterflies might rest their wings. 
The butterfly came mto Christopher's life in the first hour of our morning playtime, though none of us except Christopher noted his arrival. We just became aware that Christ had dropped out of our little war game matching bat­tleships against the submarines of the Kaiser. He was sitting perfectly-still in a patch of wild flowers, and we couldn't guess what business he might have there among the devil's paint brushes and the (~ueen Anne's lace. 
"Hey, Chris," we yelled, "what the hell's the matter?" In our group, hell, used as a swear word, was as salty as our idiom ever became. 
"Shhh," he said, and then added, "Look." There on his shoulders was the butterfly, seemingly intent upon an errand of resting; he could not have seemed more content if he were napping on chrysan­themums. But he wasn't sleeping, because the great, yellow wings were in motion, as though he might flutter off tobrightercolors than the faded plaid of a boy's shirt. 
"Where did you get him?" 
"Shhh," he said again; then, in a whisper: "I didn't get him anywhere. He just came." 
It was obvious that Chris didn't dare to move lest his uninvited, much wanted guest should be startled into Winging off, t­hus ending Chris's ecstatic experience of being trusted by untamed beauty. We quickly understood the need of gentle movement. Whatwe couldn't understand was why one of us kids should be con­sidered .worthy of a butterfly's faith, t­hough we felt honored by those shy wings that folded themselves into shapes that our hands might make if we were casting sh­adows in a game with the wall. On other mornings, we might have chased those win!ls and captured them in a net. Some child might have taken them home to be 
tv preview 
mounted in a frame, though after en­slaving the fragile being that beats upon the sunbeam, he would never feel so in­nocent agian. Birds would never come and sit on our shoulders, unless it were a gray, strutting pigeon gorging itself on pop corn in a city park, but a butterfly had done it. As the day wore on, we began to think that a butterfly loved a boy, and we were sure it had never happened before since the meadows were begun. Our little world that day centered on a miracle, and its name was butterfly. We were reverent with joy over the spectacle 01 w1td beauty making us a gift of its freedom. 
All morning long we watched with 
Christopher as the butterfly drowsed on his sleeve. At first, Chris didn't dare to move, but a seven year old boy must stretch himself sometime, and scratch the places on his legs where the ants have travelled. But even when Christopher stood up, the butterfly hung on his shoulder like 
an epaulette; it was clear he had found a crash pad he wouldn't abandon. We tried to be supportive in all the ways that we could: we brought flowers to the creature, attempting to feed it; and sweet grass to make it feel at home. One lad even offered a wild strawberry he found growing, but when it didn't tempt the butterfly to ap­petite, the lad ate the strawberry himself. None of us knew anything about but­terflies, except that we had one, and we were afraid that some larks who were watching might lure him off. Whatever invitations the breathing, growing things of earth and air offered him, the butterfly strayed with Christopher. He never even quivered when this head-turning moth fluttered by on •!:liaphonous oars in silver and black; she could have been the high priestess of the butterfly tribe. There were no signing sounds made, no covert glances exchanged; we could have sworn to that. Hopalong Cassidy clinging to his horse eouldn't have been more inattentive to the school marm from Boston than Christopher's butterfly was to those ballerinas of the meadowland, and they eouldn't have been more inattentive to him. It seems like a silly point to make; but children have lost puppy dogs to a passing pooch. As children not wanting their miracle to end, we were jealous of the natural relationships that make creatures more at home with each other than they are in the company of kids. 
At noontime, Christopher decided he had to risk going home for lunch. We tagged rlong with him, for it was our butterfly too, and we couldn't trust Chris not to grow weary of hosting an insect more wonderful to us than an angel on the head of a pin. It seemed terribly risky to take the butterfly 
into a place as confining as a house, but Chris's mother declined the suggestion that she should feed him. a picnic lunch on the back porch. She took a picture of Chris with the butterfly, and then a picture of all of us with Chris and the butterfly. She said that the butterfly had to leave some time, at least by winter; she wondered if it wasn't feeling sick to its stomach, or suffering from a wrenched wing. We knew the butterfly wasn't sick, and its wing was as healthy as any the meadow has ever seen. Each of us privately thought that Chris's mother's attitude was slightly agnostic. We wondered if she were worthy to have a son that was chosen to be befriended by butterflies. Our mothers would never have suggested that the butterfly was sick, or tired in its muscles; we were sure of that. 

Jaaaaaaaaaaccccoooocacocccccaaaaaaaa••••••= a aaaaaaaaaaa~ 'As the day wore on, we began to think that a butterfly loued a boy and we were sure it had neuer happened before since the meadows were began.' 
aaaaaaoaaaoaaaaaaaaccao=a= aaaoaaaaoooaccoaaaooaaooo oaoooaooo 
Occasionally, during Chris's lunch, one of us would peek in the window or stick our 
hea? i~,the d,~r, a~d ~en: "Is it still t~e~~· Chns. Or, What sIt domg now, Chns ·. As a matter of ~act, the bu~terflr never dtd much of an~thmg but fan Its wmgs. If yo~ are as beautiful as t~at butterfly, you don t ha~e to do any~hmg to be , adored by children except r1de on ~ b~f s shou!d~r. After that, as Eme~son.~atd, Beauty IS tts ow~ excuse f~r, bemg. . 
Fmally, ~hr1s smother got t~r~d of the colloquy gomg on between the dmmg room and the porch, and she sent us home for our own lunches. So off we ran, shouting the story of boys and butterflies. When we came running back, bringing brothers and sisters with us, Christopher was sitting on the porch, waiting. During that long af­ternoon, we sat with him, showing off the butterfly to people who had justheard the news. 
At nine o'clock in the evening, Chris's dad decided that the boy and the bug had to part. The boy was exhausted, his father said. What the condition of the butterfly was, nobody never really knew. Christopher cried when his father insisted that he take off the shirt to which the lepidopteran had attached itself. It had been a strange, wonderful, and terrible day for Christopher. It is a terrible responsibility to look after a beauty that can elude you by the merest lift of its wing. When that beauty is fragile and unsure of itself, it can break apart before your very eyes. 
Chris's dad said: "We will leave your 
shirt right here on the chair beside your 
bed. First thing in the morning, you can 
look after your pet." In the morning, the 
chair was still there, the shirt was still 
there, the butterfly was still there. But 
sometime in the darkness , its wings had 
stopped fluttering; and that wonderful 
creation, half bird and half flower, had Someone remarked that they were shaped like butterflies. 
Early in 1944, Chris died in England 
while returning from a flight mission over 
Germany. Survivors said that the 
damaged plane, trying to find a meadow to 
land in, had crashed in the darkness. After 
the war, his body was shipped home for 
burial, and I was one of the friends who 
met the train that carried his coffin. It 
seemed like a plain, wooden box which 
couldn't be opened; of course, no one 
really wanted to open it. 
. . " 

At t~fe ceme~er,~, a g1rl said: He was too 
beaut! ~I to die. . . .. , 
Chr!s s mot~e~, rephed. Nobody s too 
be~ubful to dJe.. . 
young Jewish _po~t who d1ed at the ~arne ~ge as C~ns m a Ger~an con­centr~tiOn cal!lp m Czec~oslovakJa had an expenence w1th butterflies. 
The last, the very last 
So richly, brightly, dazzlingly yellow. 
Perhaps if the sun's tears would sing 
against a white stone .. 
Such, such a yellow 
is carried lightly 'way up high. 
It went away I'm sure because it wanted to 
kiss the world goodbye. 
For seven weeks I've lived in here, 
Penned up inside this ghetto. 
But I have found my people here. The dandelions call to me 
And the white chestnut candles in the 
court. 

Only I never saw another butterfly. 
That butterfly was the last one. Butterflies don't live in here, In the ghetto. 
ford meets the press and that's it 
On the editorial page today Pat Kearns, in his column, rhapsodizes over the terrible state of modern-day television, and in view of this week's continued disasters <poor viewing, I'm afraid, dominates the "boob-tube" again), the Observer Feature page must condescend to agree with the · editorial page, at least on this point, at least for today. 
Movies 

The movies this week (depending on your taste, or lack of it, of course) are generally cause for this further pessimism. They include <at worst) The New, Original Wonder Woman battling and beating those "nasty Nazis" (tonight at 8 on 28) and Hey, I'm Alive starring Sally Struthers (worse than ever) as a Brooklyn snot stranded for 49 days in the Yukon (a shame, isn't it, that they bother best the films are The Sugarland Express. Stephen 'Jaws" Spielberg's 1974 debut as a directpr. The film's plot concerns the struggle of a couple attempting to regain their child from his foster parents. The only other notable film is. Walking Tall, that box-()ffice bonanza of 1972 about Buford Pusser and his fight, as sheriff, to clean up his small Tennessee town, despite the awesomeness of the task, and repeated attempts on his life. Good flick, but not a great movie. Powerful melodrama. (Sunday at 9:00 on 28)' 
Series and Specials 
The best of the serialized shows· this week are M-A-S-H, in which a man believes he is Christ; The Mary Tyler Moore Show on which, finally, Ted Baxter ties the knot with Georgette; Maude and 

The week in specials includes a Flip Wilson Show, with guests Bob Hope, George Carlin and Ruth Buzzi (9:00 Tuesday on 22) and "The Grand Ole Opry at 50", a ninety-minute special which includes over twenty songs sung by such country-music rnotableSc as Johrtny Cash, Chet Atkins, and Loretta Lynn (8:30 Tuesday on 28). Liza Minnelli will join Mac Davis at 8:00 Thursday on 16. 
PBS's Classic Theater presents Henrik Ibsen's tragi-eomedy The Wild Duck this week, Thursday night, the story of a poor Norwegian family whose complacency is disrupted when an outsider visits them intending to reveal a secret from the mother's past. It has been called, by scholar Rolf Fjelde, "One of the great 
works of the modern theater." There will also be a "Hall of Fame" grieving children wanted to have a but­terf!y's funeral with hymns and homily, but Chris refused. He preferred to put the butterfly away in a box which he kept among his treasures. He promised to show it to us one day, but he never did, he would never speak of the butterfly either, though he must have wondered why it had chosen him as though he were someone very special. 
During World War II, Chris joined the Air Force. When he came home on leave, he was wearing wings of his own, and there were gold leaves of a major's rank that he wore on the shoulders of his uniform. 
tom o'neil 

Eavage stars as Eric, an athlete battling against leukemia, and one who decides to carry on his life by playing soccer, at­tending college, and by falling in love. One can expect it to be a miniature "Run for Your Life". At 8:00. 
President Gerald Ford will be in­terviewed this Sunday morning on Meet the Press. This is the first time in history that an incumbent president has been featured on it, the longest-running in­terview series in the history of television. The show debutted in 1947, and will feature the President at 11:30 Sunday on channel 
16. 

The NFL-TV line-up for Sunday is as follows: the Browns vs. the Lions at 1 p.m. on 16; Packers vs. Bears at 2 p.m. on 22; and the Bengals vs. Broncos at 4 p.m. on 
16. Monday night football presents the Chiefs against the Cowboys at 9:00 on 28. In the NBA this week -it's the Knicks 
to rescue her? -Tonight at 9:30 on 28). At Medical Center. special on channel 16 Monday. John aganst the 'JraiiBiazers at 5 p.m. on 22. 
l 


~­
the observer  Friday, November 7, 1975  
~  ..;  Mainly political  
I  c~~!~et ~~~~~:~~. ~~~:~~~~~·~re~.  

'  
I  Several Notre Dame professors  
reacted yesterday to the changes  
t  in President Ford's Cabinet. Professors Peri Arnold of the  
~ J  Government Department and Michael Wise of the Law School  
l  seemed convinced that the reasons  
I  for Ford's decisions were mainly  
~  political in nature.  
~  
~  Arnold felt that "There was no  
l  one reason" for the change, but the  
political implications were  
~  dominant. Two overriding reasons  
• ,  were cited. First the replacementof Secretary of Defense James  
Schlesinger was termed a move to  
clear the way for Secretary of State Henry Kissinger to move  
forward with detente.  
The second reason was that the  
removal of William Colby as  
Director of the Central Intelligence  
Agency would "kill two birds with  
one stone" according to Arnold.  
Colby's removal would be looked  
upon as a cleaning up of the CIA whom had embarassed the White  
House with claims that their  
orders had come from the White  
House.  
Wise summed up the CIA  
situation saying that Ford wanted  
"to isolate the White House from  
the transgressions of the in­ 
telligence community."  
Colby's removal also would  
enhance the power of Henry  
Kissenger. Colby was hurting  
Kissinger by releasing secret State  
Department information to Senate  
committees, according to Arnold.  
Reactions varied to Vice- 
President Nelson Rockefellers  
notice that he did not want to be  
considered as a vice presidential  
contender in 1976. Prof. Charles  
Rice of the Law School was "very  
surprised" at Rockefeller's action  
and said he will believe it "only  
when Rockefeller is not chosen as a  
vice-presidential candidate."  
Wise and Arnold felt that  
Rockefeller was tired of being left  
out of policy making and saw  
himself becoming a political  
liability. With Rockefeller gone  
Ford hopes to appease the con­ 
servatives running to the support  
of Ronald Reagan.  
Some policy reasons were  
brought up. The main emphaiss  
seemed to be in the area of in­ 
ternational relations.  
Schlesinger's ouster would  
enable Kissenger to operate freely  
in detente without the outcries of  
Sr.hlesinger. This would  
probably hurt Ford within the  
Republican Party because Reagan  
would point out that Ford was  
becoming too liberal, according to  
the professors.  
The significance of the men  
chosen to fill the vacant posts is not  
very great, but there is a wealth of  
potential. vice-presidential can­ 
didates among them. Wise felt  
that the purpose of bringing Elliot  
Richardson into the Cabinet was to  
bring him back onto the American  
political scene.  
The political effect of the  
changes this week will probably be  
an increased in the detente effort  
of Kissenger with the absence of  
--~~~~~~~~  

fNext to Giuseppe's t t Constant Dancing t t at the t t KICK OFF CLUBt 
f 713E.LaSalle t 
SAT. nov. 8th
f Tues., Wed., t t Fri. & Sat. t 
nOTRE DAmE A.CC.
f 8 -2 am f tBeer, Wine & Food f 8=00·$6.00.$~ 
TICKETS STILL AVAILABLE
IDiscoteque I 
AT PARTNERS RAINBOW t LARGEST DANCE t OUTLETS AND 

NOTRE DAME BOX OFFICE NOW ON SALE 2ND FLOOR ND BOOKSTORE
'2l9~~1!i!.9~!it 
big gainer, according to Arnold. be working. 
With his two prime rivals out of If Ford moves ahead with 
the way he will become the focus of detente this may merely increase 
the Cabinet. His loss of his position Ronald Reagan's chances of 
as head of the National Security becoming a competitive candidate, 
Council was small compared to said Wise. Rockefeller's departure 
what he gained. The man who was the only thing restraining 
succeeded him there, Lt. General Republicanliberals from coming 
Brent Scowcroft, is a Kissenger up with their own candidate. Now 
loyalist and shares similar views. that possibility is renewed. 
In the end it seems that Ford is Prof. Arnold feels "the voters 
the real loser, stated Arnold. He think he is unsure and everyone 
hoped to appease the con-sees him as weakened. " Whether 
servatives of his party by getting the ultimate goal has been met will 
rid of Rockefeller in exchange for not be decided until 1976.


InPIRG meetl•ng dl.scusses
f
toy sa ety 0 
by Cathy Bryne I ­
Staff Report.Pr 
Investigations mto educational testing, toy product safety as well as plans for an off-campus housing manual were discussed at Wed­nesday night's InPIRG meeting. 
The Educational Testing Ser­vice, responsible for most stan­dardized tests such as SAT's, Achievements and LSAT's, is being investigated throughout the nation. 
St. Mary's InPIRG chairperson, Debbie Hale, explained the problem, "Because of the large effect these tests play in people's lives, we feel the complaints are worth looking into." 
Most of the complaints concern test scores arriving late or never being sent. Another frequent complaint is the scoring level difference of 60 points. 
"In many cases a difference 
of 10 points can determine admittance to a school. If the Testing Service considers a 60 point difference nothing, it should be checked," Hale said. 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's are currently working on a joint toy safety survey. InPIRG is using the criteria set by the Consumer Protection Agency to determine the hazardous toys in area stores. The survey will be completed before the Christmas rush. 
InPIRG has to complete the off­campus housing handbook by spring. They are compiling questi­
naires of the most frequently asked questions about off-campus housing. Organizaton members will bring these surveys to 10 percent of apartment residents at Campus View, Turtle Creek and Notre Dame Apartments. 
"If you put the surveys in the mail people tend to forget about them," Hale said. The project needs 10 volunteers to carry the 
door-to-fooP. 
h


C ousing 
InPIRG, a student-funded 
organization is not a "closed ac­
tivity." 
''We try to get things out to the 
campus so that people will see that 
we're doing things. If a project 
interests them and they want to 
volunteerwe're always open," she 
said. 
St. Mary's, NotreDameand IUSB 
InPIRG groups are planning work 
on a joint environmental project in 
the near future. 
A training session for InPIRG 
volunteers will be held next 
Wednesday, Nov. 12. Anyone in­
terested may call Cathy Nolan at 
4167 for more details. 
Award program offers $100,000 
Wells Fargo Bank, in 
cooperation with the Smithsonian 
Institution, is sponsoring a 
Bicentennial Award Program, 
"Toward Our Third Century," with 
cash awards of $100,000. All 
Americans are invited to seek 
solutions to the critical issues 
facing our society in the third 
century -in three categories of 
entries: 1) Essays by entrants 
under 18, 2) Essays by adults, 3) 
Film-tape entries. 
Entries should suggest 
recommendations for the future in 
one of the following areas: In­
dividual freedoms in our society; 
Science, technology, energy and 


work and leisure; The United States and the world. They will be judged primarily upon imaginativeness, creativity and effectiveness of expression ­judging to begin after closing date, January 31, 1976. 
For further information write "Toward Our Third P.O. Box 44076, California, 94144. 

the environment; Family life, r.===========:::;::::;;;::;;;;;;;;~~il 
-~-~---------­
(Main Church)  
5:15p.m. Sat.  Rev. Stan KolasaL  C.S.C.  
9:30  a.m.  Sun.  Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C.  
10:45 p.m. Sun.  Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.  
12:15 p.m. Sun.  Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C.  

Evensong will be at 4:15p.m. in the Lady Chapel. Homolist will be Fr. David Tyson C.S.C. 





ArmyROTC letsyou qualify for a double life! 
You can earn a commission while you earn your degree. 
And that doubles your vocational opportunities. You can pursue either a civilian career or serve as an officer. 
Either way, Army ROTC trains you for success. You learn valuable leadership and management skills which usually aren't offered by any courses. 
You make no commitment when you enroll in the Basic Course. You can ace it or flunk it. Or, you can drop it. That all depends upon you. 
But you owe it to yourself to look into Army ROTC. It might be your thing. At least it's worth checking into. 
Freshmen can preregister Nov 13-20, 1975, for Army ROTC during the Spring semester. Army ROTC notre dame notre dame, ind.4655S 

phone: 283-6264 
/ 

~--­

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
. 

Friday, November 7, 1975 
the observer 
9

Sex attractants I 
Pheromones possibly present in humans 


eglns bee~ positively identified ~s 

• RENT·A·CAR
Student UnlOn 
playmg a pheromonal role m 

INDIANA
humans. The most likely can· 
d f•J 1• 
didates would seem to be those

renewe l .m p 0 lcy selected by man himself for use in 
SPECIAL DI~COUNTS WITH STUDENT
the manufacture of perfumery. 

by Jorge Ferriero Starr Reporter 

Pheromones are chemicals which serve as communicators between organisms of the same species. Pheromones are most commonly thought of as being sex attractants. Over the years more and more evidence has ac­cumulated which points to the possibility of the occurrence of pheromones in humans. 
The possible functions of pheromones in humans would include male-female attraction, male-female bonding during pregnancy and adult male-male dominance. 
Pheromones are near-universal in occurrence in all social mam­mals. This includes the primates which are biologically very similar to man. Humans are known to react to other mammalian pheromones. For example, both men and women are attracted to 
by Chris Hopkins Starr Reporter Beginning next semester the 
Student Union will initiate a renewed film policy concerning the use of films by different organizations. In a memo from Thomas Bursic, Director of the Student Union, he states: "This film policy was adopted last year in an effort to relieve the problem of film saturation. The procedure for selection of clubs eligible for the spring semester will follow the lottery system outlined in the film policy." "The number of film dates available to all groups is reduced in the spring semester due to the high level of activity planned in other areas. No films will be run against the SLF, Mock Con­vention, Hunger 'Conference or Black Culture Week This leaves us with a limited amount of dates overall. The final number of dates that will be set aside for clubs has yet to be determined, but the number of clubs having an op­portunity to show a film will be between 10-20," he said. '_'All clubs wishing to apply for a film must sign a film request form between Nov. 10-14. Forms will be made available Monday morning at the Student Union receptionist desk," stated Bursic. After careful consideration ths Student Union has decided that some regulations of club sponsored filmshowing must be instituted for the 1975-1976 calendar year. The following are considerations which entered into the decision: ll The large number of bogus clubs being formed for the expressed purpose of advancing the personal gain of the club's organizer. 2) The reduced level of profits and high number of organizations encount­ering losses has evidenced the fact 
******************************' 
i MAKE THIS : 
i CHRISTMAS A ! 

: ttTENNIS XMASH ! 
: GIVE THAT SOMEONE SPECIAL * : A "SPORTING" GIFT THAT WILL # *"~t:RVE LOVE" ALL YEAR 'ROUND* 


: * SPENI'S i * 
: * 
! PRO SHOP ! 
# 321 SOUTH NOTRE DAME I 
lWJDJt.~UiL?. •••••~3~.,7Ji****i 
musk, a sex attractant in deer. readily seen in mice, sheep, and for such purposes. Furthermore, bulls, goats and pigs. Most likely pheromones would monkeys are attracted to the odour Another possible pheromone be secreted in humans in urine and 
of women. Thus, the occurrence of pheromones in humans would be expected on the basis of the con­tinuum of biological organisms. 
It is already known that women have olfactory sensitivity to most mammal odors. This sensitivity is estrogen dependent (estrogen is a hormone secreted in varying amounts during a woman's monthly cycle> and consequently would be cyclical. For example, women detect and react to boar taint in pork far more readily than 
m~npossible male-female effect of 
pheromones is synchronization between sex partners. Thus males 
and females would be attracted most strongly to each other during 
those times in which the female would be most likely to conceive if 
intercourse were to occur. Such
f 1 c cle dificat is 
ema e Y mo on
• b • 
Compounds such as muskone,
the films have reached the sat­

OR FACUlTY I.D.
civetone and castoreum are used
uration point on campus. 
This year over sixty organizations submitted requests for movie dates during the 1975-1976 fall semester. Some elimination 
process was necessary and there-lore each organization was subjectively examined in the areas of purpose, alternative opportunit­ies for fund raising and previous film dates. Under these con­siderations halls were eliminated because thy have a great number of alternative fund raising op­portunities. 1-'rom the list of sixty organizations applying, roughly half qualified for film dates next semester. These organizations were placed in a lottery to determine the selection of dates. The format for the lottery was categorized, in tht the organizations were grouped into categones designated sports, academic and charitable. A seperate lottery for each group was held with four organizations being picked from the general charitable category. The procedure for ad­ministration of films next year will be handled entirely by the Student Union Service Commission under the directon of Film Coordinator, Mike O'Connor. The ordering and (continued on page 10) 
THE "DEATH MARCH'~ 

STARTS HERE 
RIVER BEND PUB 
441 E. LASALLE AT NILES AVE. 

effect in humans is the ac­body sweat. It is already known celeration of puberty. The that odorous drugs given to a presence of odours of the opposite patient are rapidly detectable in sex would supposedly cause the human urine. Body sweat is also a onset of pubescence to come likely medium of pheromone sooner to young children. This type transmission. Odorous steroids of pheromonal effect has already such as progesterone are rapidly been observed in primates. transferred through sweat to 
Interestingly enough human objects handled by a pregnant males show strong distaste for woman. The peculiar odour of foreign male odours. As might be schizophrenics' sweat has been expected, homosexuals fail to show traced any aversion to the aroma of other 
males. Pheromones may even play a role in a possible biological basis 


SAYS: 
for the Oedipus complex. In such a 
case there would be an attraction 

RENT OR BUY A NEW FORD AT
to the odour of the opposite-sex parent and an avoidance of 
odours of the same sex parent. 

JORDAN-FORD
Thus a young boy would be 
sexually attracted to his mother because of her "nice" (actually 

609 E. JEFFERSON 
erotic) smell. At present no compounds have 

MISHAWAKA, 
trans-3-methyl hexanoic acid. 
When and if human pheromones are isolated and synthesized the possibilities for their use will be enormous . More likely than not pheromones wil be shown to have some control over homone secretions, which would allow for their use in remedying hormone imbalances in humans. Even the armed forces will probably get into the act. Pheromones could be used to lure sex starved enemy troops into minefields, or to antagonize 
a fur ski iocket? Yes! YOUR winter coot 
is at Mr. Leonard's! 
Read on -very likely your winter coat ltlis year will be all or p01t fur. You should shop at a furrier for the best quality, the ultimate in knowledge and service, regardless of whether you buy a S179 rabbit jacket off the rock, or the fancies! mink in the vault. And, don"! be intimidated by a ""fur shop." You con shop off the rock just os in your favorite ready·lo·wear shop! think o·n it! 
right now save 25%-35% on our entire stock of 
EVERYDAY FURS 
cosh, loyowoy, extended terms ovoi!oble 
~AitK FREE 
in our own lot! 



-------~-~--------------~----­
10 the observer Friday, November 7, 1975 

Holmes authority to speak at ND 
One of America's noted authorities on Sherlock Holmes and a former student at Notre Dame, John Bennett Shaw of Santa Fe, N.M., will discuss the cult of 
the famed London detective during 
a talk at 8 p.m. on Monday, Nov. 10, in Washington Hall. The talk is sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission and
is open to the public without charge. 
Shaw, while attending Notre namein the 1930's, bagen collecting Sherlockian materials and now owns the world's largest reference collection on Holmes. Numbering 
10,000 items, it includes everything from novelty T-shirts to the With great excitement, new tor women graduate students 
Czarina's personal copy of the was announced last spring. Huge machines worked to clear the 
detective stories. ground all summer and early this semester. Now the construction 
A member of the famous Baker site lies deserted. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
Street Irregulars, the leading



· h 1 d t h 1 
American society for the scholarly 
Psyc 0 ogy stu en s e p study of Sherlock ~olmes, Shaw 
attracted a standmg-room-only
• • h 
crowd at Notre Dame in the late
e1der1y ID nurslng omes 1960's with a talk, "Sherlock 
by Mary Mungovan Staff Reporter The psychology department's volunteer program for the elderly "is having its greatest success in its six-year history," Dr. John. F. Santos of the Psychology Department announced yesterday. 
Approximately 70 students are working with the aged in nursing homes, at nutrition sites and in private residences in South Bend in connection with psychology courses in aging, death and dying and personality develooment. 
The volunteer program is just one part of a larger program of practical involvement with the elderly including the Mental Health Outreach Program (MHOPl which trains middle-aged 
SU alters policy 
(continued from page 9) 
handling of all films, the 
auditoruim rentals and projec­
tionist's fees and the payment of 
all bills will be performed by the 
Film Committee. Collection of at­
tendance receipts will be super­
vised by the Committee in coor­
dination with the organizaton's 
treasurer or agent and the Student 
Union Comptroller office. The 
organizaton will then be issued a 
statement net of expenses. 
There are seventeen dates 
available for fifteen clubs and each 
date consists of two days. Order of 
date preference will be determined 
by lottery and O'Connor. 
All' organizations showing a film 
in one semester will be ineligible for the following semester lottery. This will insure that the clubs not given dates in the fall semester will be reasonably assured of receiving one in the spring 
semester. 
and elderly to work in the field,
Santos said. "The programs are all in­terrelated and coordinated by my
assistants," Santos explained. Vivian Hayes, a graduate student
and registered nurse, contacts the 
nursing homes, Dave Walters organizes and supervises volun­teers and Dick Hubbard coor­
dinates the Mental Health Outreach Program.
"The program allows us to develop a breed of 
paraprofessional gerontolobists with both academic training and practical experience," Santos said. 
"The size and organization of the program at Notre Dame is very exceptional," he noted. While 
touring universities in New Mexico for the Gerontological Society, Santos found only about 15 percent of the psychology departments had any sort of volunteer or practical component. 
Santos sees an increasing awareness of the problems of elderly at Notre Dame. "Besides the 70 or so volunteers in the psychology program, other campus groups including CILA, CAUSE, Community Services and others are contributing over 100 volunters in this area," he added. 
"I think Notre Dame as a Christian institution has an obligation to be concerned with people who are vulnerable," he declared "A mesure of a society's value is how it treats the aged," Santos stated. He is encouraged by the fact that mental health centers now are mandated by law to provide services for the elderly. "To look at an old person is to confront our own destiny," Kline commented. 
IF SELECTION LOWPRICES AND SERVICE ARE THE MARKOF A GOO 

STORE, THEN WE'RE A GREAT STORE! 
$4.99 I·8 TRACKS $6.2 
E'RE NOW OPEN : Mon -Fri 10 -9 Sat 10-8 Sun 12 6 


RECORDS 
919 COLLEGE SQUARE 
Holmes is Alive and Well and Living in Susses." The same talk 
has been given on several 


UNDA 
STUDENT NIGHT SUNDAY 
NOV 9th NO COVER CHARGE & YOUR FIRST DRINK 1/2 PRICE WITH THIS AD & YOUR 
ND OR SMC ID HE WHITE HOUSE 
8 MI. N. OF STATE LINE. 
• 127 N. Main St.• Downtown. Free Parkmg • American and foreign campuses. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
.-------------------------...,===;;;;;;;;;;;;ii'"--,






1'81 
TAKE NOR'l'H 
• 
• 
A Notre Dame 

• 
tradition since 

• 
1936 -you'll see more quarterbacks 

• 
here than on • 


the field. • • 
• • • 
• • 

BELL HOWELL
EJ 
e a 

672 XL MOYI8• C am r 
• f/1.3 lens for 
low light mov­les 
• Power Zoom 
31 TO NILES THEN ON 51 3 MILES. 683-9842 

• • 
• • 
• 
• 
• 
In Our • • Celebrity Lounge
Chuck • Wh • • 
lfe • 
Piano Bar and Oanc.ing • 
~ .~ _ 

135 mm ......, Teleph t Le AWl 
0 0 DS 

tor Pantax Camalts 
lens 

....,.,.,.......
• Exclusive Fo­

........
cus-Matlc Automatic 6 ft. -infinity 

List '229.95 

N $145 

F 2.8 -f 22 4 Elements -Groups
OW 
s4995
While supply lasts SPECIAL 
Ault Camera Co. 
127 S. Michigan South Bend 233-6145 
'WE l(EMEMBEI( 





~CIQVE 
The Story Of College Football's Greatest Coach As told By The Men Who Played For Him by John D. McCallum and Paul Castner 
WE REMEMBER ROCKNE is far more than a book only for sports fans. It is for everyone who believes in per­fection and the struggle to reach that goal. Knute Rockne was many men; a fascinating mix of vigorous activity and talents. He was a no-nonsense man with the highest of standards; making every minute of every hour count. 
Rockne has been dead for nearly 45 years, and there have been many books in the past ... so why another book? To share his spirit, ideals, determination and unfor­gettable personality with younger generations not lucky enough to personally witness this legend. And to rekindle the neglec.ted feelings of pride and accomplishment en­joyed from a job well done. 
No other book has been able to capture the intimacy of his spirit quite like WE REMEMBER ROCKNE. And none will ever again be able to relate the behind-the-scene stories and emotion as have the "Men of Rockne." 
This is THE book about the man, his philosophy, prin­ciples and the game he loved. And it's told by the men who knew him best. Get to know him well! II And make l sure ~our children and grandchildren get to know him; ' · men hke Rockne are hard to find! 296 pages, clothbound 
. ~.$7 .95 NOW ON SALE 2nd FLOOR 
N.D. BOOKSTORE 
-........... 

, , "'"' ;o ~end me____coples of 
' WE REMEMBER ROCKNE, ,/" no. 882, clothbound •• , $7.95 
" 

//N•~--------------------------­
1 . '
\Achlr-/ 
', City /
' /
', 5~ ," SECOND FLOOR­' /,
',,~p .,~ ND BOOKSTORE
', ·~ 
~--~' 




Friday, November 7, 1975 the observer 1 1 
Rare books are available for use 

by Phil Cackley 
Starr Reporter 

The Department of Rare Books and Special Collections is a valuable but rarely used source of research materials available to both faculty members and students on the first floor of the Memorial Library. 
The collections offer more than just opportunities for scholarly research. The department has exhibits on a variety of topics utilizing parts of the collection. In 
addition, any person is welcome to browse through the books look at the coin collection, or exa~ine the immense sports and games collection. 
The collection can be broken down into several categories. The first is the manuscript collection. This contains a small number of ancient manuscripts, dating to as early as the second century A.D.; a large number of medieval and renaissance manuscripts including works by Pope Pius II and St. 

Gallup discusses views of average collegiate 
(continued from page 1) 
concluded, could be national policy twenty years from now. George McGovern was more popular on campuses than anywhere else. 
Gallup said that although Americans tend to call themselves "conservative," this seems to apply to more to their personal lifestyles than to their political views. 
In the four decades of Gallup polling, a dramatic increase has been recorded in the proportion of people willing to vote for 
Catholics, Jews, and blacks for president. And only 20 percent of the electorate--an all-time low-­consider themselves members oft­he generally more conservative Hepublican Party. 
President Ford, said Gallup, has not reversed the fortunes of the GOP. "Tile President's support in the minds of the nation has to be described as lacklustre," he said, adding that Ford's frequent political trips may hurt him by destroymg his "nice-guy" image. 
"l<'or a Republican candidate to win." the pollster said, "he must make great inroads among in­dependents and even win the support of some dissident Democrats." Although incumbent presidents are usually reelected, Gallup continued, "History tells us nothing about an appointed president who leads a minority party." 
The Democrats are "off and walking"--no candidate in Gallup's estimation has captured the imagination of electorate. Sen. Hubert Humphrey (D--Minn) leads the available candidates, with Gov. George Wallace <D-Ala) second and at the peak of his popularity. 
Sen Birch Bayh <D-Ind) is gaining support. But Gallup said that "When we add the name of Sen. Edward Kennedy <D-Mass) to the list there is no contest." 
Inflation and unemployement are currently the national issues of most concern, Gallup said. However, crime is the hottest local issue. One-fourth of Americans <one-third in big cities) say they 
are  afraid  to  leave their houses  
after dark.  
Americans  doubt  their  in­ 

stitutions can deal with the problems and are losing con­fidence in their leadership. When Gallup's organization tried to det­ermine who was the nation's most admired living citizen, half of those surveyed could name no one they deeply admired. 
"In case you're interested ," Gallup added, "I would have put Fr. Hesburgh right near the top of my list." 
The Gallup Poll was founded by George Gallup Sr. in 1935. Its results are carried twice weekly in 130 newspapers. It maintains branches in 28 foreign countries. 
The polls are conducted ran­domly; each American is thought to have an equal chance of being among the 1,500 interviewed for each survey. In the last six presidential elections, the poll has come remarkable close to predicting the actual final results. 
W~t alnlnnial 

Jlnnrnkr ~nu.ar 
Caterina da Siena; and a large number of modern manuscripts such as autograph documents and letters. 
A second major collection is of 
rare books. The department has 
approximately 15,000 works 
ranging from books printed in the 
1400's to modern editions. 
Included in this collection are 
editions from such early presses as 
Gutenberg and Koberger. There 
are works from authors including 
St. Thomas Aquinas, Dante, and 
Tetrarch. In addition, there are 
first edition works of Copernicus 
Galileo, and Newton. ' 
The Notre Dame collection is a third category. In it is contained the entire production of printed material by Notre Dame. This includes books, magazines, yearbooks, periodical offprints and other types of materials. 
Other significant collections are the International Sports and Games Research collectian, which contains over 500,000 articles covering practically all sports, both American and Foreign; and the Numismatics collection which has over 100 American Colonial coins, a large number of foreign pieces of currency, medals and decorations. 
There are additional major collections on Descartes, Romance langu_ages and literature, Amencan newspapers, Franklin 
D. Roosevelt, and Dante. The current exhibit is on paleography, and is titled "Selections on the Art and History of Writing." The exhibit traces the development of different alphabets and styles of writing. It includes original examples of clay tablets showing cuneiform, the writing used by the Sujmerians and the Babylonians as early as 2400 B.C. Other pieces on display incude 
codes manuscripts done in Gothic and lettre batarde. In addition 
~l0 
''Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
~:::::~:::::<·:::::::-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;. 
:;:: 35 VMieties of Pancakes :::: }Ch•<kr>n Steak Sandwiches ) /Friday Nites: Perch Dinners ? 
:~:::~:~:::::::_:::::::·:·=-=-=~~:-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
Your Ho<,l
U.S. 31 ( DixiewCiy) North (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards, ND. '50. 

there are Greek papyrus manuscript fragments showing cursive Greek writing; examples of the Carolingolian script; and two manuscripts written in Pali and Tibetan. 
The exhibit will be shown until the end of November, at which time it will be replaced by a Bicentennial display featuring presidential documents, early American imprints, newspapers, and books This exhibit will focus on early American history up to and including the Revolutionary period. 
Anton Masin, head of the department, listed two major problems affecting the depart­ment. The first was external in nature: very few people use the collection, or even seem to know it exists. 
"We're at the service of the student body and the faculty," Mason said. But so few students or faculty use the department that "I don't think they know about us," he commented. 
Masin stressed his department's role as a service bureau, at the disposal of the entire Notre Dame community . "But what good are all the things in our collection if no one knows about them," he said. 
The second major problem was of an internal nature. Masin said the cataloguing of the collection was proc£;e::<Jing at a slow rate. He estim<~ted that at present ap­proximately 50 percent of the entire collection was not listed in the main card catalogue in the library. 
There are temporary cards on file in the department of Special Collections itself, he said, but these have not been placed in the library's files yet. Masin listed cataloguing as the chief organizational goal for the near future. 
Vacation break denied as another unfounded rumor 
(continued from page 1) 
itious. As a result, nerves are 
Claggertt Smith, professor of beginning to frazzle. We could use Sociology, however, is in favor of the extra days off." an extended vacation. He stated, Several students saw the need "I'd have to increase the material for increased travelling time as a for each lecture but I'd still ap­favorable factor for extending the prove of an extended break. In break. terms of travelling, it gives you an 
"Without an extended break extra day with the family." 
there will be many students who Student Reaction won't be able to go home without Students questioned cutting an excessive amount of unanimously voiced the need for classes," said junior Paul Bohn. 
an extended break. 
Sophomore Steve Meisky said, Mike Davlin, a junior, summed "We need an extended break. up the student viewpoint. He said When you're here twelve weeks in "An extended break is not only a row, it gets to the point where you necessary but deserved. Besides, don't care anymore." it would be a step by the ad-
Steve Baker, a junior, agreed, ministration to show its concern "School's beginning to get repit-.for. tbe students " 
~~~------------------~ 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$6~!1e occupancy $8~!ble occupancy 
No "!otre . Dame identification required, just ment1on th1s ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. except home football game weekends. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. Send this ad to your parents 
Blue: Wishing you were here.

CLASSIFIED ADS 
Boone· 
WANTED Will pay $12 apiece for 2·4 GA Quality stereo equipment; 30-60 Top quality stereo components, Seniors: Don't forget to get fix for Need 3 tix for Georgia Tech; Call Georgia TECH TICKETS: CALL percent off factory direct factory sealed, full warrenty, at the 'Last Hurrah Armory Party 
Sean. 289-8113. Tom. 8334 or 8328. guaranteed to beat any price In super student discounts. Call _saturday night! town! Golden Dome Record & Elliott Enterprises at 233-3769 Music Co. 809 Fianner Ph. 1492. alter 6PM. Girls: Keep those cards and let­
Let 2 Senior parents see their last I need ride to Chicago Fri. AI· game. 2 G.A. llx needed; 7862' ternoon. Call Bill . 3833. ters coming. keep trying! 
Pittsburgh Club Sansui 4000 Stereo reclever. 45 Roger D. Need ride to Louisville . weekend Thanksgiving Bus Sign-:.Jps Sun., watts per channel. Perfect Con. Box 723 
Need 4 G.A. Ga. TECH TIX. Call 
of 15th or 22nd. Call 7920. Nov. 9 from 6:30 to 7:30 in dillon. S160 Call 234-4824 evenings. Notre Dame. Ind. LaFortune Amphitheatre. Bus
288-1048. 
Need 2 Pill tlx ; Call Mark 288· leaves N.D. 1:00 Wed. Nov. 26 and Laurie aod Fr. Bojangles: 5261. returns Sun. For more Info call Welcome to weekend Won­
For Sale: One Double snowmobileNeed ride to Minnesota weekend of 
trailer behind Keenan; Call Bill
Dave at 1057. derland. Rust Repairs ReasonableNov. 14th. Call Ann 5166. 
Fallon 3376.
Need 2 GA Georgia Tech tickets. Carl Call Ron 8917. TYPING $.35 a page call. Dan 272­Need Organic Chemistry TUTOR 
30 gal. aquarium complete. Fish Walshites:
5549

Will pay. If Interested, call PRobln included. Great deal! Also, free Now Is your lucky chance win aPlease! Really need up to 6 Pill
1348. 
BO~K SHOP. 30,000 Books and darling kittens. Cll 233-2782 after free date with a mystery man of
tickets. Call Mark 3462. Prints. Ralph A. Casperson Books. SPM. your dreams! Act fast!
Need 2 or 3 G.A. tlx for Georgia 
Wanted: 3 GA tickets for Georgia 13n:J Niles-Buchanan Road, Niles.

Tech. 41M7. 
Guitar for sale: Excellent con­
Tech. Call 283-1760 Hours Wed. Sat. Sun. 9 to 7 or Happy Birthday Boom Boom 
chance. dltlonn. $200 call Peg. 287-8733 (alias Deb Grenqulst)Need 2 GA tickets for Georgia Love, the Musketeers
NOTICES "Gay Guide to Notre Dame-SouthTech. Call Paul 1146. 

Stereo equipment plus ten speed Bend" One Dollar Available at bike for sale. Call 1378 or 7837 George++ AlttJouoh Jenque hurtMORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20 ­Need 1 Pitt ticket, 272-3294. 
Pandora's or write PO Box 206, his bac!ll still like you the best.
s150; 1 day waiting period. 1 

LOST AND FOUND Yours always, SUEI need 1 GA ticket for Georgia percent interest. Due In 30 days Notre Dame Ind. 46556. Tech. Call Bob: 272-8890. 
LaFortune basement; M-F 11:15­

12:15. Accurate, fast typing. Call Mrs. Lost: SR 50-A Calculator between Willy & Murph . Donoho. 232-0746 Nlewland and Lvnns Thursday What could possibly follow theNeed 4 Pill tickets . Call Mark at Oct. 29. 'Reward $$ Please Call Lake and the Nature Trail? We
Earn extra money part time on

272-5133. 
Sharon at 78lf"" have a suggestion...
commission basis . for Info call Budepest night 1989 Prairie Ave. 

Jennifer & Margie
Bob 289·511M. Only Hungarian restaurant InDesperately need GA tlx for Lost: Gold ring, round.black stone----------'Will Mlchlana area. Open 5:00 • 10:00Georgia Tech. Call Don at 3755 or 

between Lyons &nd Stepan. HAPPY TWENTIETH AN·
do typing; experienced In term Tuesday thru saturday Serving

John at 1468. 
Reward. Call JoAnn. 7936 NIVERSARY MOM AND DAD.
papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233-American dinners bufapeclellzeln CONGRATULATIONS SUE AND8512. Hungarian entrHI. Serving bier

Need 1-9 GA Georgia Tech tlx; 
Lost Blue NO jacket, found Blue SKIP ON YOUR MARRIAGE.
and Imported wines. For ,...,.

Chris 4«1. 
SCSC jacket at Nickles Flday PM. PAUL LOUIS
"But you've got to have friends." vatlons call 234-2332 

Call 1159Gay Students of Notre Dame. CallDesperately need 5 GA tlx to PJC · take It easy.
Georgia Tech; call «30. 8870, Fri. and Sat.• 8 . 10 p.m. FOR SALE Lost: Gold sculptured Wedding love, a tenor. band. Reward. Call 233-3876 
Need GA tlx for Georgia Tech. Pregnant and Didn't Mean to be? Two Parakeets, 1 blue, 1 yellow Dear Jeanne,Call Jim 289-9793. Call Birthrlgh 288-7640. with cage. Call 1141 Price . $8.00 
Thanks for all the oreal times these past 2 months. Love , B.C. 
PERSONALS 
12 ttie observer Friuy, November 7, 1975 

Tech wishbone to invade ND 
By Tom Kruczek Te Notre Dame defense will run up against its stiffest challenge of the season this Saturday, when the Ramblin' Wrecks of Georgia Tech come to South Bend to wage war. The Wrecks, under the guidance of Pepper Rodgers are leading the nation in offensive rushing with an average of 376.4 yards per game, running predominantly out of the wishbone. The Irish on the other hand will make an attempt to put together an offense--any kind of offense. Against Navy, the defense did what the offense is supposed to do, put points on the board. The defense accounted for 2 touchdowns while setting up 2 more of the 31 total points against Navy last week, while spending a majority of the game on the field. Clearly this week will have to be a turnaround for the ·lackadaisical offense, they aren't picking the best week to do it. Georgia Tech has held its op­ponents to 138 yards per game rushing averageand hasn't allowed a touchdown in the past two games. . .Add their offense and

i 
defense together, and you can see

I 
! 
~ why Coach Dan Devine calls this "One of the best Tech teams in years." 
The Irish defense which has played so well in te recent weeks, 
will be nearly free of injuries this t­ime. Of the front four, only Willie Fry is a doubtful starter and will be replaced by John Galanis . Devine was obviously ecstatic about the performance last week of 


AI Hunter will be starting at running back tomorrow going against a tough Georgia Tech defense. 
As Devine mentioned Tech has games of the season. not had to go to the air much, yet 
Tomorrow's game which will bewhen they have, they have done so Tech's third and final away game, with considerable success. Myers playing eight times at home, willis 13 of 21 via th air for three t­be a difficult one for the Irish.

ouchdowns. Raible, who does 40 With the te visions of bowl gamesyards in 4.35 seconds has caught 11 still dancing in Notre Dame heads,passes for 251 yards. 
this game may decide for the Irish Defensive players to whether all will be home for thewatch will be outside linebacker holidays or not. The offense under Lucius Sanford,(6-2, 220), who Slager, will have to move the thefinished last year with 124 ball earlv ,or at least establish atackkles, the most ever by a Tech semblance of an attack, because t­first year man,. Red McDaniel (6­his week the defense will have3, 248), at defensive tackle, paced their hands full against Tech'sthe down linemen in tackles last tough wishbone, and may not be year with 99 and led the team in able to come up with 28 points.

quarterback demolitions with 5 and tackles for for loss with 6. The game will be carried live in Playing next to McDaniel will be South Bend on WNDU-TV, Rick Gibney (6-4, 255) who finished channer 16 and on the radio over last year with 78 tackles, even the Mutual Network. Kick off is at though he missed the last two 1:30 ESD. 
Smith and Co. go west: 
look for first win at C.C. 
the front four, with especial note
Bill Brink;==================================~!=!=!=!=!=======================:::=:=================================================================================================================:============================ 

Irish Eye 
going to sophomore Jeff Weston who was named UPI lineman of the week after being credited with 22 tackles an intercepting a pass off fake punt and rambling 53 yards for a touchdown. 
"Jeff's performance was darn good day's work for any lineman," said Devine. "He had been an offensive tackle part itme in high school, and when he came here we gave him a good deal of individual attention. He did a superb job aginst a tough Navy team, and I'm sure you'll be hearing a lot more from Jeff in the next two years." 
The linebackers are nearly all well, with Jim Stock, Doug Becker and Bob Golic strating. Steve Heimkrieter is also healed and will be ready to fill in when needed. 
The secondary spots will be filled by Luther Bradely, adn Tom Lopinski at corner backs with Mike Banks and Randy Harrison at the safeties. 
The Irish offense is not so healt­hy, however. The number one in­jury is to starting quarterback Joe Montana. Montana injured his hand last week in practice and reinjured it early in the first quarter against the Midshipman. In all probability it looks like he will be out for a minimum of two weeks due to bone chips in his index finger of his throwing hand. 
Filling in for Montana will be Rick Slager. Slager on the season, hasthrown69 passes, completing 33 for a .478 completion percentage and 360 yards. He has also thrown 3 interceptions. Slager will be backed up by Frank Allocco and Gary Forystek. 
The rest of the offense remains the same, with the exception that guard AI Wujciak is listed as a doubtful starter due to injury and may be replaced by Mike Carney. Also Jerome Heavens or Jim Browner may start at the fullback spot, with neiter getting the nod as of yet. 
Joe Restic will be the starting punter, and with the injury to Montana the usual back-up punter, Tony Brantly will be ready to play if needed. Pat McLaughlin will handle the kicking-<>ff duties and Dave Reeve will take the field goals and extra points. 
Georgia Tech has an identical record to the Irish 6-2. The dif­ference between the two squads is 
in  offensive  performance,  with  
Tech  clearly  superior  in  that  
respect.  

"Tech runs the wishbone ex­tremely well amd one of the reasons for that is their quart­erback Dnny Myers," Devine~ explained. "He is an excellent option quarterback and he also is a great runner when he keeps the ball. They haven't passed much because of their great rushing game, yet St('ve Raible (tight end) has caught four touchdowns, so t­hey can throw." 
Running in the wishbone will be Pat Moriaty (84 rushes-334 yards) and Bucky Shamburger (46 rushes­268 yards). David Sims (68 rushes­578 yards for 8.5 ave.) and Tony Head (78 rushes-393 yards) were injured several weeks ago and may not see acton this week. 

Things were a little closer than expected in the Big Ten, though declining Michigan State was the only victim of an upset. Ohio State and Michigan both turned in lackluster performances against surprisingly tough Indiana and Minnesota teams. The Buckeyes could only manage a 24-14 victory over the Hoosiers, while the Gophers gave Michigan a good game before bowing 28-21 to the olverines. Michigan State lost its chance for an encouraging season by losing 20-10 to Purdue. 
The Big Eight maintained its status quo, with both Nebraska and Oklahoma remaining unbeaten as they head for their match-up two weeks from tomorrow. Alabama and Florida seem headed for a tie in the SEC, since they do not play each other. The 
Gators have been particularly surprising, moving to 7-1 after last week's drubbing of Auburn. 
The big upset of the day however was out in Berkeley, California, where John McKay's an­nouncement that this would be his last year as 
Southern Cal's coach had the opposite effect than expected. Instead of going out and winning for their departing coach, the Trojans ran out of luck, getting beat 28-14 by a powerful California team. 
Here are this week's Irish Eye picks: Georgia Tech at Notre Dame: Though Tech has the nation's number one rushing offense, the Irish have the defense to stop it. Rick Slager, starting for the 
injured Joe Montana will have to keep the defense off the field at least for a little while, and the Irish secondary must shut off the pass to make Tech's running less effective. It's the last home game for the seniors at Notre Dame, and they have a lot of pride. Irish by 7. 
Alabama at Louisiana State: Even on a Saturday night in Baton Rouge the Tigers are out of luck. This year's State team is not a typical Charley MacLendon team, and even that wasn't enough to 
beat the Bear. Tide by 20. North Carolina State at Penn State: The Nittany Lions ·,;taved off a near upset by pulling out a last­minut(' 15-12 win over .Maryland last week. The Wolfpack can be real good <they've handed Florida their only loss this season) but they're too in­consistent. Penn State by 7. SMll al Texas A9M: The Aggies have a score to settle with the Ponies, hoping to avenge last year's 18-14 defeat. Their excellent defense won.t have too much trouble stopping what has been a less-than­explosive SMU attack. Aggies by 17. Baylor at Texas: Texas is still smarting grom losing their dominance of the SWC and the Cotton Bowl to the Bears last season. Baylor whipped the Longhorns 34-24 and went on to win their first SWC championship in 51 years. They're not about to improve the percentage this year, and Earl Camp­bell and the Longhorns will show them who's boss. 
Texas by 14. Pittsburgh at West Virginia: Tony Dorsett and a potent Pitt offense should score enough to beat the Mountaineers, who somehow managed to beat 
California and Boston College. Assuming their magic isn't at work tomorrow, Pitt will win by 6. 
Kansas at Oklahoma: The Jayhawks may just be the third best team in the Big Eight. That means they might come close. But the Sooners are used to close calls. Oklahoma by 12. 
Arizona at San Diego State: If you dismiss the Western Athletic Conference as second-rate Arizona is one team that doesn't quite fit. They're at least good enough to play in the Big Ten (they creamed Northwestern>. They take a 6-1 reeord into this match with the Aztecs, who are a fine team in their own right. True, neigher team plays anyone worthwhile (except for Arizona's match with Arizona St>, but it should be a good game. Wildcats 
by 10. . Ohio State at Illinois: Even if lllinois plays like it did t":o weeks ago when it beat Michigan State, and even 1f the Buckeyes play like they did last week when they nipped(?) Indiana, the word 'rout' will still apply to this game. State by 30. Northwestern at Minnesota: GJpher quarterback Tony Dungy leads the Big Ten in total offense and he set the Minnesota record for most TD passes in a season last week. With Ron Kullas, the conference receiving leader, at end, he should get a few more. But Randy Dean, Greg Boykin and Scott Yelvington give the Wildcats a decent threat too, probably enough to edge the Gophers in a game that rivals the Iowa-Wisconsin game as the least significant in the Big Ten this week. Northwestern by 7. Michigan State at Indiana: Well, if the Spartans can lose to Purdue then a loss to the Hoosiers is feasible too. MSU has gone from a legitimate preseason contender to a 1-4 record in the Big Ten. The Hooseirs are coming off baffling 24-14 defeat (but moral victory) at the hands of Ohio State, but it was only baffling because they are the Hoosiers. State has got to save some pride. Spartans by 10. Purdue at Michigan: It was 51-0 last year at Purdue when the clock mercifully saved the Boikermakers from real embarrassment. The home field ad­vantage won't really be a factor then, because the Wolverines won't have time to score much more than that, although Gordon Bell would h•we no trouble doing so. Michigan by 45. Stanford at USC: California made the Irish feel bad last week by showing that a little bit of offense can beat. the Trojans. Stanford! has a really good passmg attack that boasts M1ke Cordova, one of the nation's best passing quarterbacks. But Ricky Bell and the Trojans learned their lesson last wwek, and should put the ball in the end zone enough to trip up .the Cardinals. USC by 10. Upset of the Week: Georgia over Florida. The Gato~s· number one quarterback, Don Gaffney, is out w1th a broken leg, and although Jimmy Fisher filled in admirably aganst Auburn last week, he will be missed. It might be just quat the questionable Bulldog defense needs. With ·QB Matt Robinson leading a strong attack, and with the game being played in no-mans land (Talahassee), Georgia could pull this one out. Last week, 11-4 for .733 per cent. Season 89-27 for .767 per cent. 
-by Ernie Torriero 

Many have said that there is no place on earth like Colorado Springs. Located high in the majestic Rocky Mountain region, Colorado Springs, the fastest growing community in America, abounds in halcyon beauty. The air exhibits a remarkable freshnesss, and Coors, the most sought after brew in America, is always in plentiful supply. 
But for Lefty Smith and his young Irish hockey team the tempting lures of Colorado Springs must be put aside. For Notre Dame is in town to playColoradoCollege a club experts think will be so good that they are already rated eighth in the nation by the Vollmerth National College Hockey Poll. That might not seem all that impressive save for the fact that the Tigers have yet to play a game. 
"This is going to be a very competitive weekend," em­phasized Lefty Smith, coach of the 0-2 Irish. "Even though we lost both games at Michigan State last weekend, we played good hockey. This weekend will once again prove a tough test for our hockey club. But our play at Eat Lansing has given us a boost." 
The Irish are going to need quite a boost if they are to come away with a weekend sweep. Thirteen lettermen return from last year's 23-14 Tiger team, a mark good enough for third place in the WCHA. 
"It will be tougher for us this season," admits Colorado College coach Jeff Sauer. Last year we were picked to finish last in the WCHA. After our stong finish, everyone will be looking for us. We won't catch them napping this year." 
Opponents will not need a supply of No-Doz when they face Colordo College. Last year's freshman sensations Jim Warner, jim Kronschnabel and Mike Haedrich 
are oacK tor return appearances. 
Warner paced the squad in scoring 
last season with 30 goals and 55 
points, while Haedrich and Kronschnabel scored 43 and 49 points respectively. 
Senior Jim Mitchell returns to anchor the defense. Mitchell scored 17 goals and 40 points. His experience will be a plus to a young defensive corps. 
"Based on its play last season, Colorado College has to be rated among the league's top four teams," Smith cautioned. "They are an excellent hockey team and have most of their squad back. The 
have fine forwards and the 
defensemen are very good. Then, 
there's Eddie Mio." 
Indeed, Eddie Mio is the om­nipresent backbone of the iger defense. The senior All-American net-minder, who always plays well against the Irish, had a 3.95 goals­against average in 21 games last season. 
Meanwhile, the Irish came away virtually unscathed from their double-dip season baptism last weekend at Mchigan State. Allen Karsnia and Kevin Nugent will not participate in this weekend's festivities. Karsnia suffered a brused shoulder at East Lansing and Nugent is just getting over a bout with mononucleosis. Both are expected to be back skating on Monday. . · 
Notre Dame hopes to get some scoring from the dormant Brian Walsh line. The trio of Walsh, Clark Hamilton and Alex Pirus were expected to carry most of the scoring load for the Irish. But they failed to dent the net last weekend. Second line center Don Fairholm leads the Irish in scoring, with two goals and one assist. 
Both games will be broadcast back to South Bend via the services of WSND and WNDU. Face-off will be at 10:00 p.m. EST both nights. 






