

In United Nations 
Senate to reconsider U.S. stand 
programs.
WASHINGTON <AP) -The He said the vote "has certainly Jews automatically become unanimous adoption. However, Senate, responding to the United added to tensions and to the rift citizens upon arrival in Israel. Rep. Robert W. Kastonmier, D-Nations resolution labeling and distrust" in the Middle East. Wis., blocked immediate con-Major difference Zionism a form of racism, will But Kissinger added that "we Religious condemn vote sideration by asking for reassess "the United States' have to keep the American clarification as to whether it further participation" in the world reaction in some bounds." He Religious organizations, in-suggested U.S. withdrawal from The major differnce is that the assembly. appeared to be trying to blunt any eluding the World Council of the United Nations as a whole. House bill would authorize the 
Both houses of Congress, joining drive to restrict U.S. participation Churches, condemned the Democratic Leader Thomas P. spending in both the 1976 and 1977 in a storm of American protest in the United Nations or to punish assembly's vote. The World O'Neill Jr. of Massachusetts later fiscal years; the Senate bill is for Tuesday, passed resolutions individual countries. reintroduced the measure without the 1976 fiscal year only. condemning the U.S. General "It is important in the present a call for hearings on U.S. In other reaction, the Canadian Assembly action. The House, world situation to keep our eye on assembly participation. The House of Commons in a step however, deleted the call for the fundamental issues that must O'Neill resolution was then adopt-similarto that taken by Congress, reassessment of U.S. par­be solved," Kissinger said. ----~p.}~~~~........~•ed 384 to 0. unanimously condemned the U.N. ticipation. Daniel Moynihan, u.S. am-Rep. Robert E. Baunma, R-Md., action and said it was dangerous to 
President Ford also reacted bassador to the United Nations, said the hearings should be held the continued survival of the world strongly against the U.N.'s vote said in a television interview anyway. He said he regretted organization. The resolution was when he met with nine visiting yesterday, "We don't want to get what he called a backdown by the greeted by cheers from both sides members of the Israeli parliament so mad about this thing that we House. of the Commons. in Washington. He called the forget where our interests are." On the other side of the dispute, Zionism resolution a "wholly Adding to calls for Congress to The first opportunity for the Iraq and Libya told the 135-nation unjustified action." take financial reprisal against the .Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~United States to use its finaicial ax assembly of the Food and 
White House spokesman Ron United Nations, AFL-CIO on the world organizaton will come Agriculture Organizations <FAD> Nessen said President Ford will President Geoorge Meany said, at a Senate-House conference this in Rome that Israel should be review the implications of the U.S. "The U.S. Congress must im-week to compromise differences in expelled from the big U. N. vote and "will be assessing mediately re~valuate continued bills passed separately to agency. "There is not place for possible courses of action." He United States participation in the Council, which represents the authorize spending $191.15 million racism in this humane declined to state any proposals U.N." world's major Protestant and a year on voluntary U. N. con-organization," said Iraqi under consideration. "How long can the American Orthodox denominations, voiced tributions and $6.5 million a year Agricultural Minister Hassan Fah­
However, Ford said his ad­taxpayer be expected to bear a "Unequivocal opposition" to the on assessed payments to various my Juman. But he offered no ministration will be "completely disproportionate share of the resolution and appealed for specialized agencies and specific resolution. firm in our position" of opposing 
U.N.'s bills when it produces this reconsideration 

s k D 1 • 
the resolution. 
ki~~eofc~rN:i~~e c~~:d.after the co~~~:tti~~nt~ldv~~~~mmediately ic oug as ret1res: 
Vote tt>rmed irresponsible U.N. assembly voted the anti-However, th president of the U. Ziolnism resolution Monday night S. Catholic Conference, Ar­

ongest Court te•m

Secretary of State Henry A. by a vote of 72 to 35 with 32 ab-chbishop Joseph Bernadin of ~ ,
1 

Kissinger, at a news conference in stentions and three nations absent. Cincinnati, expressed "profound ' Pittsburgh. Pa., called the vote Zionism is the movement vor a disagreement" and "great I WASHINGTON <AP) -Jus-of praise and "warm admira­"extremely unhelpful and highly national Jewish homeland in disappointment" at the vote. tice William 0. Douglas retired lion" for the man he tried to trresponsible" in efforts to bring Palestine; under the religious Some 100,000 demonstrators in from the Supreme Court on have impeached five years ago.lasting peace to the Middle East. notion of "ingathering of tribes," New York City's garment center Wednesday because of ill The impeachment effort never 
blocked all traffic from 37th Street health, ending the longest ten-got beyond a special House to Times Square along Seventh ure in the tribunal's history. committee.now e ge 1ack• Avenue in protest of the vote. His retirement opens to Presi-The Douglas retirement gives
K 1 d 1ng 
In Washington, reaction in the dent Ford an appointment that Ford his first appointment to Senate was swiftest and most could tip the balance of power the Supreme Court. Four of the damning. on the court. nine justices were appointed by

P 1•

about Honesty 0 ICY 
By voice vote without dissent, Douglas, 77, said he would former President Richard M. the Senate passed the nonbidning leave the bench immediately Nixon. resolution of condemnation after because "I have been unable to Ford's coming appointment
by Jill Truitt the policy added. several members rose to denounce shoulder my full share of the will mean that a majority of Staff Reporter The Academic Honor Council the action of the General burden." He suffered a stroke the court holds office by nomi­was first organized in 1964. Council Assembly. last Dec. 31. nation of the Republican ad-
Notre Dame students seem to be members resigned during 1968-69. The bipartisan resoluton, in-He had served 36 years on ministrations that began with_ unaware of the Academic Honesty The council members found it a troduced by Republican Leader the court. He had made his Nixon in 1969. Policy passed last May by the moral quandary to sit in judgment Hugh Scott with more than 30 co-mark as a dissenter, a civil lib-White House Press SecretaryAcademic Council, according to on fellow students, according to the sponsors, warned that the U. N. er.arian and a figure of con-Ron Nessen said he had no in-John T. Goldrick, director of ad-February 1975 minutes of the vote "encourages anti-Semitism troversy for his private life. formation about a nomination missions. 
Academic Council Meeting. by wrongly associating and Twice there had been moves to the court vacancy.
"There seems to be a In 1971 the Faculty equating Zionism with racism and in the House to impeach him as With Douglas ill and noticeable lack of Senate committee on racial dscrimination." a justice -the most recent led frequently absent from the knowledge by students academic honor recom It directs the Senate Foreign by then-Rep. Gerald R. Ford. bench, there had been specula­that the Academic mended that an Relations and House International .. ... hereby retire at the lion for months about possibleCouncil passed an honor system not be Committees to begin immediate close of 1 this day from regular successors. It was only that. honesty policy," he reinstated. Goldrick hearings "to reassess further active service as an associate One name that figured in the
I

said. explained that the participation in the United Nations justice of the Supreme Court of guessing on Capitol Hill was 
Goldrick heads the Academic Academic Honesty committee will General Assembly." the United States,, Douglas that of Carla A. Hills, now sec-Honesty Committee, a Student Life study everything that has hap­A similar resolution was wrote Ford. retary of Housing and Urban Council CSLC> Policy and Planning pened since 1971. presented to the House for Ford's response was a letter Development.subcommittee. The committee Goldrick said there should be 
(continued on page 10) first met Nov. 5, Goldrick more specific annunciations of the revealed. honesty policy's guidelines in "We will be doing research and student publications. discussion regarding honest "If the honesty policy is adopted behavior at the University," by the SLC, it might be published Goldrick explained. in such materials such as du Lac or 
The Academic Honesty Policy's the admissions bulletin," Goldrick guidelines include monitoring of said. examinations, Goldrick said. He stated the student handbook, 
In the absence of a university­du Lac, never refers to the honor wide honor code, the normal code. procedure for a teacher is to see "Under University policies in du that his examinations are Lac, there is nothing on academic adequately monitored, the policy honesty," Goldrick noted. stated. · The Academic Honesty com­
The policy proposed that mittee members are Prof. Robert students pledge to uphold honest Kerby, John DiPietro, and Ed Van principles for courses when the Tassel. Paul Leniiwux, Peter 
semester begins. Johnson and Sally Stanton are also 
"This is to be insured by committee members. distributing to each student at the Stanton attended a national beginning of the semester a form conference on Student Conduct in of declaration in which he pledges the Nation's Colleges and 
honesty in examinations for the Universitif!s Today, Goldrick said. course," the policy added. "And He suggested the rationale promises not to tolerate cheating behind the recently passed policy 
on the part of others." also be published for the students. According to the policy, students "The policy should be may refuse to sign the form. Their documented where students have ' Tbe home games are over and the snows ere about remains of • Jubilant crowd. (Photo by Tom Lose) decision will be held confidential, easy access to it," Goldrick stated. to come upon us. All that's left In the N D Stadium Is 

'·' 
Thursday, November 13, 1975
the observer 
Reason--no break 
warld briefs 
NEW YORK (AP) -New York Cit is accumulating a deficiti of $1.5 billion beyond that already accounted for in the city books because for months it has not been able to borrow for capital ex­penses. 
The $1.5 billion is separate from the $991 million generally acknowledged by the city as the shortfall in the 1975 budget. 
See rel.ated stories-page 7 
WASHINGTN <AP) -The Senate Banking Committee voted Wednesday to kill President Ford's nomination of Ben B. Black­burn, a former Georgia congressman, t head the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. 
Opponents said Blackburn, 48, a Republican who served three t­erms with Ford in the House, was too insensitive to the needs and rights of minorites to serve in a post that sets federal policy on equal access to home mortgage money. 
LAKE WALES, Fla. <AP)-A machete-weilding fugitive calling himself the "divine terorist" stormed into a real estate office Wednesday, took sea secretary hostage and refused to release her despite please from police, social workers and drug counselors. 
SAULT STE. MARIE, Mich. (AP) -The U.S. Coast Guard on Wednesday began preliminary work on an inquiry into the sinking of the freighter Edmund Fitzgerald. 
An open board of inquiry will convene in the Cleveland federal building either late this week or Monday, according to Cmdr. Ed Sullivan in a telephone interview from Cleveland. 
an campus taday 
3:30 p.m.-­ computer cour~e, "spss-a statistics package for social scientists and others" rm. 115 computer center.  
4:00p.m.-­ seminar, "colour vision: a physical model of spectral discrimination by the retinal cones" conference rm., radiation research bldg.  
4:00 p.m.-­ lecture, "the south loop new town In chicago: a major event In the revitalization and preservation of the central city as a place for living" architecture aud.  
4:30 p.m.-­ colloquium, "the theory of foliations'' puting center.  rm.226  com­ 
8:00 p.m.-­ concert, carol rosenberger, pianist, o'laJJ9hlin aud. tickets: $2:50 general, $1 students.  

8:00 
p.m.--1976 Mock Convention, platform committee hearing, lib. aud. 

8:00 
p.m.--film, sponsored by chinese association of nd, library auditorium 


Fifty teams to compete in debate tournament 
by Mike Mullen Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame will host the 24th Annual National Invitational Debate Tournament this weekend, Nov. 14-16. 
Fifty teams representing 29 schools and nine states will par­ticipate in the tournament. Notre Dame will be represented by 15 students who will divide into three or four sub-teams. 
The topic of the competition will be "Resolves: That the Federal Government Should Institute a Comprehensive Program of Land Use Control in the United States." 
The tournament will consist of eight preliminary rounds in ad­dition to the final rounds. 
John Borkowski, debate club assistant, termed the field of this weekend's competition "ex­tremely good." 
The tournament will be the 
largest debate competition held on 
Notre Dame's campus in 10 years. 
The location of the competition will center on the third floor of O'Shaughnessy. Other sites in­clude the Law School and Nieuwland Science Center. 
* "/( ~ 
PLATFORM HEARING "GUN CONTROl}' nov. 13 8 pmLIB. AUD.l 
c:;lf'tmando'j. !Ba7.be'C & d-/ai't ~tyfe ~hoj2 
OPEN SIX DAYS A WEEK 
MONDAY THRU FRIDAY 8 TO 5:30 • SATURDAY 8 TO 4 
PERSONALIZED SERVICE 
ARMANDO FEMIA 1437 N. IRONWOOD DR 'PHONE 277·0615 •·~ou'r'H st'r.fo. i"N"otA'NA. · 
ND-SMC students feeling sick 
by Kathy Byrne Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's students have been complaining about an increase in colds and illness on the campuses. 
The increase is especially prevalent among freshmen, they said, and cited lack of sleep as the main cause. 
"Almost all of my friends are sick because of over-work," Libby Lamb, freshman at St. Mary's, said. 
"They pull all-nighters, skip meals and just get run down. Then they get sick," she added. 
Most freshmen agree that academic pressures are keeping them ·from rest. 
Many upperclassmen feel that the problem could have been avoided had a mid-semester break 
( *The Observer). 
Night Editor: Val Zurblls 
Asst. Night Editor: Jim 
Stevens 
Layout Staff: Gall DeLasho, 
Jay Cassidy, George lgel, 
Ravlnder Sethi, Bob Pliler, 
John Calcutt 
Day Editor: Mary Reher 
Copy Reader: Kathy Mills 
Sports: Ernie Torrlero, Bill 
Brink 
Typists: Karen Ch lames, 
Marie McCarthy, Mel Celeste, 
Howard Halle 
Compugrahpic: CarolinalNight Controller: Dave Rust J 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during exams and vacation periOds. The Observer •s published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor 10 dollars per semester ( 18 
dollars per year) from The Ob server, Box Q, Notre Oame, In diana. 46556. Second Class postage paid. Notre Dame, IN 46556. 




L~!..~!:~t~!~~~~~~~;_ l 
Bringing in a supersonic jet on a 10,000 ft. cement runway is tough enough. But landing one on a 500ft. piece of a carrier deck, moving at 25 knots, is even tougher. Only a few men are good enough to do it. And they're a\\ Navy trained. How can you become a member of the Naval Air team? One way is to join while you're still in college. Ore of the advantages of being part of the Aviation Reserve Officer Candidate (AI/ROC) Program is that it lets you continue working toward your degree 
Getting your Navy Wings isn't easy. The training is tough. The least that will be expected of you is the best that other pilots can do. Their limits are your starting bJocks, their expertise your primer. But if you succeed, your future is assured whether you remain in the Navy or not. 
For more information, talk to your local Navy Recruiter. 
Be Someone Special. Fly Navy. 

been scheduled. 
"Not as many people were going around exhausted this time last year," a Notre Dame sophomore commented. "This year everyone's dragging around half­dead." 
Unusual weather conditions were given as another reasoon for the greater number of colds. Sudden temperature changes have left students unprepared for cold weather. 
"Right now we have one flu case and a lot of people have colds," Butch Koenig, section leader in 

1 GROOVE TUBE (R)
8, 10 & special show 12 All seats at Sl.SO Sat. 2, 4. 6. 8, & 10 Non-Thurs . 1 & 9 pm 
WOMAN UNDER 
THE INFLUENCE (R) 
6:30 & 9:15 Fri. . _ 
2:30, 6:30, & 9:15 Sat-Sun 8 pm Qlly Mon-Thurs 

Uuiler-·lluuse r=lix 
TWIN THEATRES-100 CENTER-MISHAW AKA-255-95'15 






r--RIVER-BENDPUB--j 
-PRESENTS-t "NOTRE DAME ENTERTAINMENT" t 
JACK KELLEHER-FRI & SAT 

I 
9 PM 'TIL? t 
DAVE SHAHEEN-TUES & THURS.f 9 PM 'TIL? t 
24 oz DRAFT $.60 

I 
Grace, said. 

"I'm sure lack of sleep plays a role, but the South Bend weather conditions are the major part of it all," he exQlained. 
Koenig continued, "With overnight temperature drops of 40 degrees a lot of people are stuck with completely inadequate clothing." 
St. Mary's infirmary estimated it handles about 10 cases of sore throats, colds or flu per day last week. Notre Dame infirmary officials were unavailable for comment. 

But drill wastes time 
~~~----~~~~~~~----~ 
AROTC students satisfied with training 
by Bob Mader 
Campus Editor 

Students in the Army Reserve Officer Training Corps are happy with the leadership training they are receiving and the open relationship they have with the officers. 
However, some freely admit they are in the program only for the money. Others feel that drill is not only a waste of time but that it discourages highly competent people from entering the program. 
"Drill is too tedious so we give it for or.ly one semester," said the unit commander, Colonel Alvin Gendron. "These kids are too damn bright today." 
During the second semester the students have a number of options to choose from as a replacement for drill. A ranger team, drill team, orienteering and map reading and physical training are included in the options. 
George Lucas will work with the ranger team, the Irish Raiders, during the second semester. 
Heconaissance and patrol are the hardest subjects to adequately learn in a classroom and Lucas likes the opportunity for practical field experience. 
"We do reconnaissance of an enemy objective and go out with our M-14's and shoot at each other," Lucas said. 
Lucas said the ranger team learns how to go about finding a sniper and killing him, taking prisoners, and other tactical skills. 
The sophomore said this training is good for students who wish to enter the infantry. The students learn from their mistakes, 
Lucas said. 

"It's better to mess up here than when you're supposed to be defending your country," he continued. 
Drill tedious for some 

David Faainuinu said drill, while tedious in many cases for the freshmen and sophomores, helps the juniors learn to be leaders. 
"I'd give it a 10 on a scale of one to 10," Faainuinu said. 
However, one sophomore said that drill 
is much too tedious after one has done it 
more than twice. 
Another sophomore said that drill is intended to help the juniors prepare for summer camp and that it is constructive to that extent. 
However, the majority of students are freshmen and sophomores, the student noted, some of whom have taken ROTC in high school. For these students drill is just walking around in circles in the parking lot, he said. 
The same student then became more specific in his criticism. "The army should pursue more construclive ways of teaching leadership," he said. 
He said he would favor dropping drill altogether and eliminate the uniform and haircut regulations for freshmen and sophomores. 
"The Army has good things to offer for the right type of person," he said. "But many people are turned off by the haircut regulations and drill. 
"The first two years should concentrate on showing what Army life is really like. It will attract well-rounded kids and the enrollment will go up," he added. 
The elimination of the strictly military aspects of the program for the first two years would attract a broader cross section of students, the sophomore maintained. 
He characterized the students now at­tracted to ROTC as "intellectuals and Army brats." 
The student stated that the wearing of uniforms and military customs and courtesies could be easily learned in just the last two years. 
Course of study 
Gendron outlined the classroom work done by the students. 
Freshmen study political science, military science and the relationship of the President, Pentagon and military. 
Sophomores study geology, map reading and photo interpretation. 
Juniors delve into leadership and management techniques. 
Seniors also take a management course 
Manual explains lor landlords duties to off ca111pus students 
by John Calcutt Staff Reporter 
Fr. Thomas Tallarida, director of Off-Campus Housing, explained the new Proprietor's Manual last night which his office has recently formulated. 
"The pamphlet is designed to make landlords aware of their rights and obligations under In­diana and South Bend laws and housing codes," stated Tallarida. 
He alsn emphasized the fact that the proprietor's manual differs from the student pamphlet in that 
it elaborates on discrimination laws, the duty of the proprietor to deliver possesion of the premises, holding over after the expiration of a lease, building codes, mediation and liability. 

Tallarida noted the sections concerning mediation and in­spection deal with a new University policy initiated with the establishment of the Off-Campus Housing Office. 
"Written complaints," Fr. 
Tallarida stated, "may be submitt­ed by either of the parties <proprietors or studentslon forms provided by the 0-C Housing Of­fice." 

' ........ /,,.' ..........
,· .· •. 
•..·· •, 

and a one-credit course in military law. 
None of the students thought the courses were burdensome. 
Joseph Palazolo, a military school transfer, described the instructors as "fantastic." 
Lucas noted that many of the instructors were new at the beginning of the year and weren't used to teaching. 
aoaaaaccaaaaoooaaaaacaaacccaaaaaaaaaaaaa,acacaaaaccacacaaaaaao~ 
During the second semester the students have a number of options to choose from as a replacement for drill. A ranger team drill team, orienteering and map reading and physical training are 
inc.luded in the options. 
aaacaaacaaaaaaaacccacacacacaaccccoooaccaacccccacccaaccaaccccac~ 
"But they caught on pretty quick," Lucas said. "To be an Army officer you have to be top notch." 
On the other hand, one sophomore thought the officers are too demanding and stress ROTC over regular academics. 
Many of the students said the instructors are friendly. 
Cadet executive officer, John Ormsby, said that the instructors are close to their students. The students often watch the away football games on the color television at the ROTC building allowing for informal contact with the officers, Ormsby said. 
Lucas mentioned that Major Alexander Cochran bailed some of the ROTC students out of jail last year, and praised his con­cern. 
Benefits 

Army ROTC students, like other ROTC students on scholarship, have their tuition, books, and fees paid by the government. The Army also pays them a $100 dollar a month "subsistence allowance." 
Gregory Quackenbush is taking advant­age of the free flying lessons with a local contractor provided for in the program. 
Lucas said the leadership training is good preparation for life. He said that many employers look favorably upon experience as an Army officer. 
Tallarida said that his office will then forward the essential in­formaton to the second party, whether landlord or tenant, with appropriate suggestions of possible solutions to the com­plaints. 
A joint interview will then be arranged if the complaint remains unresolved. 
If all mediation fails, Fr. Tallarida said, court action remains the option of both partes. Also, the 0-C office reserves the right to pursue an independent course of action in the event that principles stated in the housing manual have been jeopardized. 
Two specific cases were cited as typical examples of the complaints filed already this year. 
In the first instance, students 
· initiated the mediation procedure by filing a complaint concerning mice within their dwelling. 
Fr. Tallarida said, "We then notified the lessor and had the house inspected. The results of the inspection accordingly were forwarded to the lessor, and suggestions for repair were suggested." 
In the other case, a neighbor to a student residence wrote the 0-C office and reported the tenants of a particular house were disturbing neighbors with loud parties con­tinuing well into the night. 
The housing office provided the neighbor with a compalint form she returned. 
"We arranged a meeting," stat­ed Fr. Tallarida, "with the students, the proprietor, the neigh­bor, and the city councilman for the district even attended. And we got the problem worked out." 
"The proprietor's Manual," added Fr. Tallarida, \"hopefully 
1 
will lead to better tenant-landlord relations and help to raise the st­andards of Off-Campus living in general." 
. .... ~ .. 


According ito battallion literature, st­udents may also participate in a color guard, rifle team, and write for the unit newspaper, the Shamrock, and enter in natonal drill competiton with the drill t­eam. 
The literature also lists 25 awards and decorations which may be won by cadets. 



THURSDAY NIGHT 



HE LIDRAR 
HOLDS ITS WEEKLY HAPPY HOUR 
$.10 BEERS 
7-9 P.M. 

S-T-R-E-T-C-H 
Your budget & snop at any area 


According to cadet commander, Terrence Salazar, the unit loses ap­proximately 15 per cent of the freshmen and 20 per cent of the sophomores. 
Usually only about one person drops out after the junior year begins, Salazar said. 
He estimated the unit will lose ten st­udents out of the 80 freshman currently enrolled. 
Salazar said many freshmen drop out because they tried the program and decided they don't like the military life st­yle. 
Sophomores drop out, the cadet com­mander said, because they don't want a military obligaton. 
One sophomore stated to bhe best of his knowledge, most of the students dislike the program and stay in only for the scholarship benefits. 
He also said that some complete the program because they feel guilty about taking the scholarhsip benefits from the Army and dropping the program after two years. 
According to Gendron, 70 per cent of the students remain in the Army after their four-year obligation is over. 
"No private industry can boast of a retention rate for their junior executives like that," he said. 
The commander said that the Army has attempted to study their success in ret­ention, but has been unable to it. 

GOODWILL 
STORE 

NEW AN of USED FUR NIT UIU; TOYS CLOTHING FOR EVERY-ONE BOOKS JEANS GLASSWARE MISC. HARD WARE, ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES 
' 

-COUPON­25% OFF ON ALL WINTER COATS (EXPIRES NOV. 19th) 
SUPER STORE 1805 WESTERN 282·1030 
SOUTH BEND 702 S. MICH. 282-1215 
NILES 2 20 N. FRONT 683· 8322 
MISHAWAKA 315 N. MAIN 255·0246 
ONE TIME OFFER 

'NEW' MODERN STYLE LOUNGE CHAIR ONLY $8950 WHILE THEY LAST 
ISHOP YOUR Nl;lGHBORHOOD GOODWILL STORES,.,. D BENEFIT FROM OUR LOW PRICES ON CHOICE CLOTHING ITEN&AND 110'5 OF OTHER ITEMS TO,. ELP YOU STRETCH YOUR BUOG·f­
..
• 

,.,..,.,.,,_ ,_ 
-~--------------------------------------------------------------------­

4_____!.:th=--=--=e~o::...:b=s--=e:..::r_v=-e:::....::...r____T_hu_r_sd_a__,_y_,Nove111ber 13, 197~ I 

/-·'"' 




Fieldhouse may go 
by John Hannan architecture student who has Kremer commented he does Staff Reporter picked the design \of the new Art not think the structure of the building as his thesis, the new faci­fieldhoue has any serious defects. The fieldhouse may be done lity was scheduled to be behind the "Any one ofthewalls is perfectly away with. Plans for tearing down bookstore and in front of the Ar­straight. The Administration 
the seventh-eight-year-old chitecture Building. Building has more cracks," he 
structure and building a new said.
Now, however, the new facility

facility for the Art Department "But the school may have to put
will not be located there.

have been circulatng for a number a little money in the roof this year,"
"Plans keep changing," Carter

of years. Kremer pointed out. The roof
stated. "The Art Department kind 

Bill Kremer, assistant professor leaks badly, he said. 
in the Art Department, indicated of wants to keep the fieldhouse." Kremer is oooosed to tearingthere was substance to these Garbage has collected in this corner of the old field house. (Photo
down thefieldhouse. He feels the
Renovation costs 

rumors. by Tom Lose)
use of the space justifies its 

"Sure there is substance to the A study was made years ago existence. student a feel of studio before they Mark Brownstein, a teaching rumors," he said. "They haven't showing to renovated the structure The fieldhouse has brought get out of school. assistant and art student, stated maintained this place at all, all the of the fieldhoue would cost 1.5 togetherelements of the scattered "Other people are ,envious,£ our the fieldhouse is nice. "There is a maintenence is on our own." million dollars-, Carter said. "With Att Department, he said. space," Kremer remarked. He lot of space and not a place like it in 
He continued, "students had to inflation, it would now be con­Clay, welding and sculpture are added known people involved in a the country." patch the roof. I've built siderably more," he noted. Ac­in the fieldhouse now. summerworkshopat the fieldhouse He also noticed the fieldhouse is everything in here with my own cording to Carter, the new building O'Shaughnessy and the Architect­were impressed with the en-"falling apart. They don't put hands." is still up in the air, even within the ure Building house the rest of the vironment. much money into it." 
According to Bill Carter, an Art Department. department. Kremer pointed out the ap-He had heard the plans were to Kremer did offer some criticism plications for graduate studies in tear down the fieldhouse part of the of the fieldhouse He said the space art at Notre Dame are on the building and put a second floor in
m!-....

~ ''"~iir~•-·T~--;... is not being fully utlized. rise.a_gain this year in spite of the above the basketball court. 
He noted the ceiling is high tuition. Kremer attributed the "I would like to see it remodeled enough to have a second floor fieldhouse space as a major factor and the University keep such a installed . The bleachers could in this. unique building," he commented. 
be knocked out for a painting 

~*******************************~ 
studio since the natural light is good there, he pointed out. 

* * 
More room needed 

i SENIORS! i 
The Art Department needs more room, according to Kremer. 

* * 
"Photography is very cramped," 

* * 
he said. 

! NOMINATE YOUR i 
Kremer also feels the building is good for the ceramics program and the Art Department. He called * * the fieldhouse the "biggest 



! SENIOR FELLOW !
ceramics shop in the country." "We give everyone studio space, * * so they can develop their per­
* * 
sonality and not have their work 

* * 
thrown in with a mass of others. It 

* * 
helps them establish identity," he 

* * 
explained. 

* * "This sense of envioronment * * develops excitiement," Kremer * * stated. * * He added, "This place is at­* * tractive to grad students for the * * 
* * 
purpose of working in this kind of space instead of being so cramped * * as at other colleges. But we can't 
! FRIDAY LAST DAY! ! 
live on excitement forever." 

Kremer stated. The studio space * * Cracked plaster and open wires adorn a hallway students used to is ideal as most students are on travel on the way to athletic events. (Photo by Tom Lose) independent study and it gives the ! CALL (7308) MAUREEN i 
* * 
Bill passed to control gas prices : 9 AM-5 PM : 
* * 
~*******************************:
WASHINGTON (AP) turers to build cars that use fore current oil-price controls Granting a last-minute con­less fuel and requires the states expire on Saturday.

cession to the Ford adminis­to enforce energy-conservation However, the pricing provi­tration, congressional conferees 

plans. sions in the bill will be retro­approved a comprehensive The conference committee is active to Saturday, meaning 
energy bill Wednesday that expected to finish work on the that oil companies will not be would roll back consumer fuel bill this week, but that would in a position to raise pricesprices for two years. 

not allow enough time to get without justification pending fi­Most Republican conferees the final version approved by nal approval of the bill by
\Oted for the compromise and the full House and Senate be-Ford. 
Democratic leaders said the plan is acceptable to adminis­tration officials. 
Expected acceptance of the plan by the full House and Sen­ate, probably next week, would end a 10-month-long dispute be­tween the Democratic Congress and the Republican President over the shape of national ener­gy policy. 
For consumers, the most ob-· vious effect would be a 3.5-cent­per-gallon rollback in the price · 

of gasoline and home-heating t--=·=·t::-------''---------------------1 
oil until about September 1977, 
An all 


AIRPORT 

when prices would return to to-NEW film day's levels before resuming Ends Thurs. 
their upward climb. 1878 
The plan accepted unani-7:15, 9:30PM 
mously by the seven House con-And Look What's COMING FRIDAY! ferees and on a 17-2 vote by their Senate counterparts is In Superb Technicolor! only slightly different from the CW.Oft !I}iAn.ru'l Amajma 
one accepted last week. ---, --. 
The key difference is a provi-. sion in the new plan that could result in above-average prices for the expensive-to-produce oil that will begin flowing from Alaska in late 1977. . Music ctmducted by
The pncmg prov1s1ons are the Great S'I'OKPWSKII 
the major part of a com­prehensive energy bill that re­4QpEDFUN. "TWO GUN MICKEY" IN SHOCKING ILACK AND WHITE quires automobile manufac-..:. ··: F~i~'lC.~-·: T. . ....'~_-:f 


Today LaFortune Student Center 9:00 am to 3:00 pm 



All Stores Join In Celebrating The Opening 01 Our FOUR Newest Locations 
Now There Are 67 Playback Audio Centers! 
SANSUI 441 System PROJECTIone Mark II Under $250! Syslem-Under $350! 
Separately $431.65 






$249 
One brief listen is all you need to convince you that this outstanding combination is the best stereo system you can buy for less than $2501 Full-feature Sansui 441 Stereo FM/ AM Receiver offers switched output for two pairs of speaker systems, tuning meter, and much morel BSR 2260 Complete Changer Package and two wide-range Amerex 8" Speaker Systems. 

PIONEER BX-838 Receiver. Loads of versatility and all the per­formance and features you can handle! The fabulous SX-636 has it all: twin tuning meters, tape moni­tors, pairs of speaker outputs, a high filter, mike jack, headphone out­
put, defeatable$ FM mutinq circuit! 
•••. $341.95
269 

SHERWOOD 7010 Receiver. Top-rated Stereo FM/AM Receiver takes the honors when it comes to value! A sutJerb FM section, preci­sion tuning meter, tape monitor, ond outputs for two pairs of speakers ar.. 
just a few of the

$149 
things that make a11. $118.15 this a winner! 

BONY BTR-7055 Receiver. State-of-the-art Receiver is second to none in versatility and features. Out­puts for THREE pairs of speaker •Y• terns. Dual tape monitors. Both low and high filters. Plus SONY reliability I Dynamite! 
KJNQSWAY SSP Stereo a­Track Home Player. Positively the least expensive way to add tape playback capabil­ity to your home syateml 

SKARDA 555 Stereo 8-Track Under-Dash Player And SKARDA HS-3 Surface-Mount Auto 
EPI Mlcrotower 1-Speaker Combination HALr-PRICEI Ported like an organ pipe for You can look far m1d wide, high and low. astounding basa and fab-and you won't find a bigger auto audio value 
CB Converter. Tune in entertain­

ulous efficiency! Omnl-than this! A deluxe Stereo S-Track Tape ing and informative CB broadcastsdirectional. Player with two matched $SII through your present Aiil! car radio.
apeakerR that mount easily $ 1tg. · 5
$2988 on any rear deck. 112'ft88 
111. $SUS Unbeatable! ~ 
S29&& ....$41.1S 

S.parllely $511.55 


$349 
SONY 5520 Auto/Manual Turntable Package 

Cast platter Ia belt-drtv,Rn ill 
by synchronous. Cueing. Antl-akatlng. Very fast start-up! Baae, dust COYer and Stanton 681EEE Cartridge. 

DUAL 1226 Aalo 
Taralahle Package 
A complete system put together by one of the leaders in recordhandling gear! Hefty platter. Low­moBS tone arm. Cue­ing. Anti-skating. The convenience of a changer with the performance of a manual! Base, dust cover and cartridge. 

*149....$%52.11 
PIONEER SE-305 'Phonea. A great buy In full-range Stereo Headphones. Fully adjustable and luxuriously padded for maximum comfort. Coiled cord. Sounds aa .... $34.15 good as speaker $ft488 
systems many ~ limes the price! 
CASIO llitlL 
Perfect for 99% of your 
personal and houae­hold calculatlona. Anawera up to 12 1 
digital Big dlaplay. 
SHURE M81ED HI-Track Car­tridge. Widely-acclaimed for Ita smooth response and 

low dlatortlon~u $14.11 $18• 88 


CREDIT TERMS TO SUIT YOUR NBEDS! 
Sale Encla Nov. 17 
ASK FOR YOUR
817 W. McKINLEY 


MISHAWAKA (COLLEGE SQUARE) PHONE 256-1514 FIRST COME, FIRST SERVE QUANTITIES LIMITED 
FREE PLAYBACK 40-PACE FALL FLYER 

I . 
I
The Observer 
on independent s~dent newspo~ 
Foundt'd Novt"'1l~r 3. 1%6 

Terry Keeney Edttor-on-choef Tom Modglin Busoness Manager Tom Whelan Advertisong Manager 
EDITORIAL BOARD 1\l l<uttwrford, Manng>nq Editor. Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor, k··n G>ro11ard. N<ws Ed>tor, Bob Mader. Campus Editor, Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor, Kl'n l\rndiord, Copy Editor. Bill Brink, Sports Eoitor, Tom O'NPil, Fpatures Editor. Chris Smith, PIH>I·> Editor Edtfort.lll 28)-8661 Nf"w\ 1'3J 17/S 8u\lnf"U 28.:_1_,14_71______ 
Thursday, November _!3, 1?75 

Be Realistic 
Let's be realistic about the calendar--for a change. 
The academic calendar for next fall is virtually signed, sealed and delivered. It awaits only the approval of St. Mary's. 
The calendar is one that almost no one 
wants. It features a post-Labor Day start, 
Saturday class in November, and a 
finishing date very close to Christmas. Its 
most glaring deficiency is that there is no 
break in October. 
But, barring a massive student uprising, 
the simple fact is that this calendar will not 
be changed. Students will again be forced 
to struggle through another October 
without a break from the daily grind. 
Unfortunately, the only way students may get an October break is to start classes before Labor Day. Last year, a Student Government poll showed the vast majority of students opposed starting before Labor Day. However, the student preference is irrelevant in this case. Based on the guidelines established by the Academic Council last year, the University has already scheduled a conference of Christian Charismatics during the weekend freshman orientation would begin under a pre-Labor Day start. It may prove impossible for the University to break that commitment to the Charismatics. 
Some students have proposed that next semester's calendar follow that of fall1973 with a two-day break in mid­October and a regular Thanksgiving break. This proposal for next semester will meet stiff opposition because the number of class days would dip below 70. Fr. Burtchaell and the Academic Council have set 70 days as the required length for any semester. 
The basic question concerning the fall calendar is this: despite the near unanimity that some kind of October break is necessary, why can't a satisfactory calendar be adopted? An October break is favored by virtuaTiy all the students. In a year when academic pressure on campus is 
noticeably increased a break is more needed than ever. 
What many do not realize is that many administrators favor the October break. Fr. Burtch a ell has been on record for a week-long break in October since the calendar controversy began over two years ago. 
In last year's Student Government poll, 30 percent of the students and 30 percent of the faculty favored a post-Labor Day start and a week-long Thanksgiving break. Thirty-three percent of the students and 31 percent of the faculty favored a calendar like that of fall1973 with short October and Thanksgiving breaks. 
What -is most significant is that only 11 percent of the students and 14 percent of the faculty said they favored the calendar we are now all struggling through. 
Somehow in last year's confusion over the calendar, the Academic Council voted guidelines that produced a calendar no one wanted. Some students have charged they were short-changed by the Council. What was advertised as an extended Thanksgiving break was merely the two­day break we have now and not the week­long break the students and faculty said they wanted. 
Regardless of how this semester's calendar came about, it is important that next fall's calendar include some kind of October break. It would be worthwhile for the University to drop below 70 class days next fall just to grant a two or three-day break in October. The gain in student and faculty rest would more than outweigh the alleged loss in academic quality. Besides, the 70 day requirement is not necessary for academic accreditation. 
But, none of next fa:ll's calendar will be changed unless students start to get excited about it. If not, students may be left in the perennial position of Chicago Bear fans: "Wait until next year." 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

J'() UK& YOU TO STARTONA 
TANKAI?/J TOPAY. SilVER 15 TOO PRECIOUS FO~ A 


sin9aIon9 ju n k. !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
A Time to Write 

Dear Mom: 
I'm sorry I haven't written in a while, but things have been pretty busy. I've just had tests and papers and homework piled on t­erribly during the last two weeks. There was no semester break t­his year, and it's really taking its toll. A few nights ago, our hall, Keenan, fought Stanford in a pillow fight. I helped to ease some of the tension, which seems as thick as peanut butter. 
How are things at home? My roommate and I are getting along pretty well, and even though he still hates John Denver, I'm start­ing to like Chuck Berry. I can see the men in the white suits coming now.... 
There in one thing that disturbs me though, Mom.The other day, I read in the paper that a good deal of cheating goes on among premed students. Even though I'm not in premed, this competition among my classmates bothers me. 
Last week, when I was coming out of psychology class, I heard a girl moaning about the mark she got on the last test, a "B". I asked her what she had received on the three previous tests. She replied, "All "A's" butthis"B" brings my mark down to an "A-." Do you know how little an "A-" is worth in this school?" 
Mom, I'd be glad to get an "A-" in psychology. 
It seems like only yesterday that Dad was lecturing about the dog-eat-dog world out there. "You wait, son," he used to say, "someday you'll be out in the real world of competition, breaking your back to earn a living." 
Someday. Not now.... 

Little things show the competition. People studying on Friday and Saturday nights. People studying all night. Constant worry about grades. Constant conversation about grades. I can't un­derstand this selling of your soul for a good mark. 
Sure, I realize that people are striving to get into graduate school. 
I realize the standards they must keep, the goals they must set. But in some cases, it seems to be tturning into a process of dehumanization. 
I can't say that I'm not guilty of this grade-consciousness. I don't think that anyone can be completely free of this stigma; it's a part of college life. But it's the degree of awareness that some people have towrds these grades that worries me. 
Another thin, Mom. The time I used to have for myself-the hours of walking, writing, playing basketball, reading, playing the piano -where has this time gone? Just because I've come to college, does it mean all my time i~ dev?ted to st~dying? I hope not. 
Even when people knock on the door a conflict occurs. It may be a friend wanting to talk, or needing to talk, but I have studying to do. Do I answer the door or not? Actually, with all this damn competition and work, it would seem practical to ignore it. 
But what value does a math book have in relation to me, as a person? What is more valuable to me, the book or the friend? What is "practical" here, anyhow? Mom, it seems to me that what we have here is a North and a South Pole between two opinions. I've seen people who study constantly, and also those that never seem to study, and are always with friends. 
Lately, what I've been thinking is tis: How about meeting in the middle,someplace around the equator? It is apparent that these two forces: books vs. people, school vs. friends, cannot exist separately. Instead of making one choice or the other, how about compromising? Let us live with both of these. Not one or the other. Both. Together. Peacefully. 
In this way, maybe I'll stay sane till Christmas. 
Mom, I gotta go now. answer it.  I hear a knock at the door.  I better go  
Love,  
Joe  

"It's a very funny ... romantic comedy" -Judith Crist  '  
,  
t  
A TOUCH OF CLASS George Segal and Glenda Jackson on the way to an affair.  t ' t t  
'  
Nov. 14·15  t  
7, 9, 11 pm  '  
Eng. Aud.  t  
Adm $1  •  

7 


Professors and students react to New York's financial crisis 

by Pat Cuneo Staff Reporter 

In the next few weeks the financial capital of the world, New York City, will fall to bankruptcy unless positive steps are taken by the federal government. 
Several faculty members and students responded last night to President Ford's failure to back the largest center of world trade. 
Dr. John Malone, associate dean and director of the graduate division of Business Ad­ministration, summed up the feelings of those interviewed. 
"I feel this is a very serious economic question and any inaction by President Ford and the Federal Government is simply bad," he stated. 
Malone believes the government should initiate a guarantee program and stand behind the city. 
By this, the government would take the position of guaranteeing the municipal bonds, thereby making them marketable. Otherwise, the bonds would become worthless. 
"Acting as 'co-signers' of the bonds, the government could prevent disastrous situations in banks, the markets of other American cities and economic recovery of the country," said Malone. 
New York City is on the verge of bankruptcy and President Ford 
Budget reforms needed 

continues to withold the necessary financial aid.
• NYiC 
On the other hand, Malone said

• the government should insist that
Ford 1enlent to 
I New York set up budgetary
t d
•d t •11
al s l no 
WASHINGTON <AP> -The Ford administration is adopting a more flexible stance toward New York City's fiscal prob­lems but still is not promising any financial aid, adminis­tration sources said today. 
The change in stance,. which was described as one of offer­ing "encouragement," resulted partly from steps city and state officials have taken and partly from adverse reaction to Presi­dent Ford's hard-line, no-bail­out statement on Oct. 27. 
Ford was said to be consid­ering a new statement on New York City, although a firm de­cision reportedly has not been made. 
However, White House Press Secretary Ron Nessen said the President's position remains unchanged on any promise of financial aid. Nessen repeated the comment for emphasis. 
While Ford is "encouraged by the work city and state offi­cials are doing to solve their own problems," Nessen said, the President has always be­lieved New York City can avoid default. 
There has been a consider­able shift in the last 24 hours in the position of many officials in the administration, the Con­gress and the Federal Reserve Board, who previously had op­posed federal help for the city. 
The New York Post, mean­while, said state officials are optimistically awaiting word, which they expect today or Thursday, that President Ford has reversed his pledge not to help the city until it has gone into default. 
Their hope is that Ford will accept the state's last-ditch maneuver to raise taxes, cut the city pensions, lower interest payments to banks and lay off 
more city workers ·to win feder­al loan guarantees to block default, the newspaper said. 
At the same time, the stock market accelerated in buying, stimulated by hopes for a fa­vorable resolution of the city's financial woes. 
The noon Dow Jones average 
•


promlse 

of 30 industrial stocks was up 
7.48 at 846.03. Gainers out­stripped losers by about a 7-2 margin on the New York Stock Exchange. 
New York officials presented their plans for restoring finan­cial soundness to New York City during a two-hour meeting Tuesday with Treasury Secre­tary William E. Simon, Chair­man Arthur F. Burns of the Federal Reserve Board and L. William Seidman, economics adviser to Ford. 
But one participant at the meeting, Assistant Treasury Secretary Gerald L. Parsky, said of the plan that "the very tentative nature of it makes it difficult for us to focus on it." 
Nessen said Ford has not talked to Burns recently about the city's problems. 
Other sources, however, said 

administration offici a Is are en­
couraged by recent steps by New York city and state offi­cials and therefore Ford's ad­visers are recommending he adopt a more flexible stand to­ward the city to demonstrate this "encouragement." 
"Clearly we have always felt avoiding a default is something we all wanted to do, but the principal responsibility for doing that lay at the state and local level," said one source. 
Vice President Nelson A. 

Hockefeller and Burns both 
havefederalindicated thatfor oppositionYork
to aid New 
City is softening. 
Mock Convention t plans speakers t: 
The Mock Convention Executive 

Committee has announced the 
speakers for tonight's session of its 
Public Platform Hearings. 
Edward Chapleau, chief trial 

lawyer with the St. Joseph's 
County Prosecutor's Office, will 
speak in favor of gun control. 
Howard Williams, Notre Dame 
Law School student, will talk 
against gun control. 
Williams is an avid pistol target 

shooter. He has authored several 
articles for NRA Magazine. 
The session will start at 8 p.m. in 

the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
reforms and various other reforms sothedilemmacouldbeavoidedin the future. 
Similarly, Professor Emeritus of Finance Dr. Raymond Kent said Ford is quite wrong in his attitude toward New York City. 
"It's simply not sensible for a President to make a move like this especially when he's up for re­election," commented Kent. 
Kent feels that permitting New York ~ default is a very serious mista~~~or the entire country as well as (e>~ internaational market. 
"It wil~ become exceedingly difficcult to borrow in the in­ternational market as interest rates will soar even higher than they are now," Kent explained. 
"This can only mean a spring­back into deeper recession," he added. 
"Hopefully, Congress will pass the currently-proposed bill providing reservations in Presidential veto so that the 



president will not have l~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!i!iii~;iiiiii!iij;iiiiiiiijp~p~!ii~!!!!;;;;,
unquestioned authority as in the 
New York default epic," Kent said Kent said Ford's chances for re­election are very poor. 
"By campaigning for 14 and 15 months before the election, Ford is obviously demonstrating much more interest in getting the job he already holds by appointment rather than fulfilling the respon­sibilities of the Presidency," he remarked. 
Dr. Adam Arnold, associate professor of Business Economics 
and Finance, agreed ·with his ......lll.iiliilliliiiiiilillliliiliilliii&liliililiii•••liiia&liiliiiiiil _ --------­
r ________......,..._____ -' 



-------~-------------~---~ 
0 
" 


Parts & accessories for imported ca for all makes at lowest prices. 
.*****************·********
~For ND Students, Faculty & Staff ~*10 percent discount wlth I D & * ! purchase of $10 or more. ! 
************************~ 
colleagues that the fall of the "Big Apple" will have an adverse effect in the city and across the nation. 
Arnold explained that the municipalities will have to pay much more in interest charges and other costly consequences but he did not believe there was a significant bond with respect to recession. 
Students react 
Eleanor Popken, a senior government major who lives in the Bronx, reacted to her city's peril. 
"I love the city, I really do and it has contributed a lot to the country. Now when we are in trouble we can get no support," she noted. 
Popken went on, "New York City has the largest welfare program in the country and the migration of taxpayers has resulted in not enough tax money to support this program. It's getting so bad that the Metropolitan Opera House had to close down for a few days." 
Are You Talented? 
a gifted writer? 

Your talents are being wasted, face it. Your work deserves the readership of 10,000 people. The Observer feature staff is recruiting people to write on deversified topics and is having a meeting you should come to. Tonight in the Observer of­fice <Top Floor LaFortune) at 10:00. 
Refreshments will be served. No jour­nalism experience is needed. Come to the meeting. Join the Observer Feature Staff. 
Norb Sax, a freshman business 
intent from a New Jersey suburb, 
was "upset" by Ford's inaction. 
"It's most important that New York stay on its feet because it represents the people of the U.S. in foreign langs," he pointed out. 
Sax added, "I can just imagine the economic bust if the federal government refuses to back the city. People won't be jumping out of windows this time, they'll be pushing congressmen and presidents out." 

Sophomore government major Dave Nani said, "The only thing in New York worth saving is the Mets." He quickly added, "Seriously, the financial situation would be in ruin and both the city and country would be plummeted into economic disaster." 
Nani continued, '_'In order to get re-elected, Ford would have to carry both California and New York, and if he goes through with his plan of idleness, New York 
-
surely won't vole for him." 
8 the observ'er Thursday, November 13, 1975 
'Political revolution' ­





r. ' 
t 
a Wallace to launch presidential campaign
l 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. <AP) his candidacy for the Demo­the first presidential primary­by an independent team of doc­
~ 
-Gov. George C. Wallace, cratic presidential nomination. in New Hampshire-but run in tors. And it laughed when Wal­with the brash, vigorous, scold­Wallace said the Democratic most of the others. He said oth­lace answered by saying: "One
~ 
ing voice of earlier campaigns, party leadership has suc­er candidates have already group of doctors says 'cut him 
~ 
issued a call Wednesday for cumbed to the "ultraliberal ex­spent much time and money in open.' The next group says I• middle America to launch a otic left." New Hampshire and that he is 'sew him up."'"political revolution" to carry But he disavowed any talk of not "ducking"' it.
l 
him to the White House in 1976. bolting the party to run as an But he added: "If other can­
~ 
Lively and at times nearly independent, as he did in 1968, "I just feel like you have didates want to submit to this shouting to the cheers of sup­and urged "a political revolu­nothing to gain and everything board, I'll consider it."
t 
porters, Wallace vowed that tion at the ballot box in the pri­to lose" by campaigning there,l neither his paralysis nor his maries of 1976." he said. 
Wallace, who was crippled by
~ 
foes in the Democratic party He said that voters "are not a would-be ·assassin while cam­
l He said Massachusetts would
.vill stop his fourth bid for tht. going to allow a repeat of the paigning in Laurel, Md., in
I be his ·first primary test, and
presidency. 1972 convention". when Demo­1972, was later asked once
I added, "I'm not supposed to
"My health is excellent and I crats picked Sen. George again about his health and said,
get any votes in Massachusetts
I will be able to campaign acti­McGovern as the party's nomi­"Yes, I'm tired. I'll tell you
I ... I think we'll do better."
vely and I don't care what nee and shunted aside Wallace 
what I'm tired of. I'm tired ofI they say," the governor _de­and his platform. The 56-year-old governor, sur­people asking me about myI clared in formally announcmg Wallace said he would skip rounded by his wife Cornelia health."I and family, looked fit and I raised repeated cheers from 
When asked if he would ac­
I about 300 supporters, including cept the vice-presidential nomi­
Rumsfeld won't refuse VP bid
~ a small number of blacks. 
nation, Wallace said, "I'm not The crowd booed a reporter running for vice president, butI ~ WASHINGTON <AP) -Don­sidered for." Rumsfeld was from the result that occurred." 
who asked the partially paral­you don't want to paint yourselfald H. Rumsfeld, designated by asked about his potential politi­Jackson said it has been a
•l yzed Wallace if he would sub­into a corner ... I just don't
President Ford to be secretary cal ambitions by Sen. Henry M. tradition for secretaries of de­mit to a merlical examination think that I would." 


I of defense, refused today to Jackson, D-Wash., a candidate fense and state to stay out of l -rule himself out of considera­for the Democratic presidential politics and not go on the ~ tion for Republican vice presi­nomination next year. stump and make political
dential nomination. In response to another Jack­speeches. 
I Rumsfeld told the Senate son question, Rumsfeld said he "Of that you can be certain," I Armed Services Committee at had nothing to do with the oust­Rumsfeld responded. "I am not I his confirmation hearing that it er of Secretary of Defense running for anything."
would be "really presumptuous James R. Schlesinger. Rumsfeld said his plan is to ~ of me to stand up and take my­In fact, Rumsfeld said, he serve as effectively as possibleself out of consideration for gave President Ford advice on in the Defense Department for
l 
something I am not being con-the matter that was "different as long as the President desir­
k 
l es. He said he is not seeking l and will not be seeking any oth­er position.
ND supports right to food
l 
• Notre Dame's World Hunger Floyd Fithian in support of the bill Coalition has joined the United that will be introduced this month Religious Community of St. Joseph by Sen. Mark Hatfield and Rep. County in sponsoring an "offering Donald Frazer. of letters" in support of a 
"The right of every person to a
resolution on the right to food for 
nutritionally adequate diet is
all minkind. 
The area groups are asking all henceforth to be recognized as a cornerstone of U.S. policy," is the
concerned individuals to write to 
opening phrase of the bill.

their legislator, stamp the en­
velope, and drop it in the collection basket on dates chosen by the church. 
If the church does not participate in an organized way, the writer is asked to drop it in a mailbox. 
The letters to senators and congressmen urging approval of the resolution will be in addition to the Thanksgiving season collec­tions of food and cash gifts. 
Members of the University organization are ready to appear as guest speakers at religious services, show film strips, lead panel discussions or produce brief sermon announcements during the campaign extending over the last three Sundays of November. 
The letter campaign seeks to 
produce a flood of letters to Senat­
ors Bayh and Hartke and 
Congressmen John Brademas or 
THE 

RESUME PLACE 
25 RAG BOND 

Only $2.55 

insly·prints 
203 N. MAIN SO.BEND, IND 
289-6977 

'*****************************~*********************** 
• SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS PRESENTS: ! 


~ AEROSMITH ~ 
i< * 
i< * 
: i 
i< * 
i< *
• *
.i< * 
~ 

i< * 
i< * 
i< * 
~ : 
Reg. 944 

~ 
i< 
i< 

i< 
2 $149 
i< 
i< WITH SPECIAL GUESTS FOR
i< 
• 
i< 
i< KANSAS i< AND
i< 
• TED NUGENT AND 
i< 
i< i< THE AMBOY DUKES
•
i< 
***************~***
• 
i< 
i< THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20 7:30P.M.
... 
i< 
i< NOTRE DAME ACC 
i< 


Reg. 94¢

i<• 2
~ TICKETS $6.00 Floor 

$149
$5.00 Bleachers 
FOR

t ON SALE NOW AT: ACC BOX OFFICE, BOOGIE RECORDS. i< JUST FOR THE ~ECORD, ROBERTSON'S SOUTH BEND ~ & CONCORD MAll ST. JOSEPH BANK AND BRANCHES,t FIRST BANK MAIN BRANCH ONLY, THE ELKHART TRUTH ANC : :SUSPENDED CORD IN HKHART.AND THE RECORD JOINT IN NILES! 
·········•••+~···..·························•••+••···· 
1 Mile North of NOTRE ·Just South of NORTH VILLAGE 

MIDNITE SPECIAL! Fri.-Sat. 


~ESUS CHRIST SUPERSTAR'' 
r.:1 ~Giant Rock Cast! ~~And at REDUCED PRICES! 
$AYE WITH THESE MONEY SAYING COUPONS THRU 
NOV. 23rd 

3 LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU 
710 W. McKINLEY AVE.-MISHAWAKA (Town & Cour:ltry Shopping Center) 1702 S. MICHIGAN -SOUTH BEND 1807 LINCOLNWA Y EAST -SOUTH BEN 
Reg. 944 

2 $149 
FOR 

Reg. 94¢ 


2 $149
FOR 


Student Affairs announces shuttle schedule 
The Notre Dame Office of Student Affairs has announced the routes and schedule of the shuttle bus between Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
Express buses will leave four minutes after the end of class. T­hey will stop only at the designated stops. 
The designated stops for the express buses are Nieuwland Science Center, the Grotto, Madeleva and LeMans. 



US leaders to speak on alcohol 
Notre Dame will host a three-day seminar on alcohol education and alcohol abuse prevention on Nov. 21-23 in the Center for Continuing Education. 
More than 125 students, faculty and administrators from 63 colleges and universities will hear talks by national leaders focusing on education, rather than prohibition 
Notre Dame student government and the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism ( N I AA l are co-sponsoring the seminar. 
The focus of the seminar and followup activities is to provide the university community with ac­curate information to assist in making responsible decisior.J. 
The seminar is not part of an anti-drinking campaign or the beginning of a new federal effort tr 
.

Murders stl 
Hy JEHHY HUCK 
Associated Press Writer 

LOS ANGELES <AP> -The first victim was found nearly a year ago on the lawn of the Los Angeles Public Library. His 
throat  was slashed  from  ear  to  
car.  
It  was  Dec.  1,  1974,  and  it  

was considered just another skid row murder. 
Seven days later another de­relict was slashed to death in a skid row alley. Then another. And another. By then the mur­derer had become known as the "Skid Row Slasher" and police had organized a special 18-man squad to track him down in one of the biggest manhunts in the city's history. 
Still, he continued to stalk his victims, cutting their necks through to the spine. 
Then the murder moved out of skid row. An eighth victim. A ninth victim on Jan. 31. Then 
Moreau Gallery 
to showAmerican nature paintings 
"Seascapes, Landscapes, and Still Lifes," an exhibition of paint­ings by the late B.J.O. Nordfeldt, will open in the Moreau-Main Gallery at Saint Mary's College Sun., Nov. 23. 
Included in the exhibit are 22 paintings on loan from the University of Minnesota. 
As a student, Nordfeldt travelled through England, Italy, North Africa and France. Later he worked in New Mexico where he produced many paintings and prints of the Southwestern Land­scapes. 
After teaching briefly in Utah, 
Minnesota and· Kansas, he moved to New Jersey where he painted during the last 20 years of l,is life. 
Norfeldt's paintings are American in spirit, and his work is stylistically associated with that of John Marin, Marsden Hartley, and Arthur Dove. 
The show will run until Monday, December 8. Gallery hours are from noon to 5 
p.m. daily and admission is free. 
For regular service until6 p.m., buses will leave LeMans every t­hirty minutes on the hour and half­hour. Buses will leave Nieuwland every 30 minutes on the quarter hours. 
The designated stops from Nieuwland are Nieuwland, Memorial Library, bus shelter, ROTC Building, the Grotto, Madeleva and LeMans. 
The designated stops from LeMans are LeMans, the Grotto, 

control the drinking habits of Americans, organizers said. Don Phelps, director of the division of prevention of the NIAA

d
11 unso1ve 
nothing. 
Dozens of skid row murders -the latest last week -have been minutely studied, but no link has been established be­tween those murders and the slasher. 
"To the men who live on the street it's ancient history," said Lt. Dan Cooke, a spokesman for the Los Angeles Police De­partment. "They live day to day anyway. Even at the time they never cared about it one way or the other. 
"The biggest concern was caused by the last two victims, who were killed away from skid row. Then people began to say, 'It could have been me.'" 
The case remains unsolved. No one has been charged. The slasher squad, down to a few detectives, is still at work and a Los Angeles County grand jury is expected to hear evi­dence in the case soon. 
ND power plant and Nieuwland. For the regular service from 
6:30 until 10:30 p.m., buses will leave LeMans every 30 minutes on the hour and half-hour. Buses will leave from the Memorial Library every 30 minutes on the quarter hours. 
During this period of operation, the route will start at the Memorial Library with stops at ND power plant, the Grotto, ND main circle, Holy Cross Hall at St. Mary's , Regina, LeMans, McCandless and 

1 on alcohol education and in­, formation projects. 
One of the tasks of the seminar 
participants, according to campus 
communities across the nation to 
imitate successful programs. 
"By involving students, faculty 
and adminstrators in this project 
from the beginning," Phelps said, 
"we are confident that this project 
is filling a real need and that it will 
yield significant results. 
"We have served as a catalyst in 
this effort but the university 
community has been the real force 
behind the development of this 
manual," he added. 
Much of the material in the draft 
of the manual is based on alcohol 
information and education 
projects that are operating on the 
63 campuses visited. 
As many as 100 different projects 
or activities are described in detail 

along with information on how to 1 get such a project underway. 
AT 

GEORGE HARRISON EXTRA TEXTURE 
REGULAR $5.47 

NOW $3.99 
said the semmar is a cij}mination of visits by staff members to 63 schools during the last 12 months. 
Their objective, he said, was to disseminate information about alcohol abuse and to encourage campus leaders to take a critical look at drinking behavior on their campuses. 
As a result of these meetings, an estimated 52 projects and ac­tivities have been initiated at the campuses visited. 
Special task forces on alcohol have been established at seven colleges and 14 schools have un­dertaken education projects for residence hall advisors. 
Another 18 schools have held or have scheduled "alcohol awareness days" on their cam­
puses. 
Whelntlhde 63 cda~p~;~s vbisitsdwere 
comp e e , an e Ilona1 oar was established consisting of students :~~c!~i~~.ty interested in alcohol 
The editorial board helped develop the first draft of a manual ND main circle. 

The regular service for late night 'lours is from 10:30 p.m. unti112:45 a.m., Sunday through Thursday, and 10:30 p.m. until 2:45 a.m., Friday and Sattlfday. 
During these hours, buses will leave LeMans every 30 minutes on the hour and half-hour. Buses will leave Nieuwland every 30 minutes on the quarter hours. 
Those buses leaving from Ni­euwland will stop at ND power plant, the Grotto, NO main circle, 


BAND THIS WEEKEND 
SQUEEZE 
TONIGHT IS STUDENT NIGHT 
BOWLING ONLY soc 
WITH ND-SMC I.D. 
OPEN BOWLING 
THIS SAT. & SUN. AFTER 8:30 P.M. 1121 WEST 8th ST. -MISHAWAKA ­
PHONE 

Holy Cross Hall at St. Mary's, Regina and LeMans. 
Buses leaving from LeMans will have stops at McCandless, ND main circle, the Grotto, NO power 
plant \ and Nieuwland. The last bus on Sunday through Thursday will leave Nieuwland at 
12:15 a.m. and LeMans at 12:30 a.m. 
On Friday and Saturday, the last bus will leave Nieuwland at 2:15 
a.m. and from Le Mans at 2:30 a.m. 
-

-=-1-=0~_ _:_:th~e:.____::o:....:b::....s=-e=-=-r--'-v--=e::_:r____T_h_ur_scl_:__a~y~,November 13, 1975 
Tom Seaver wins Young Award 
ing him 98 points to so for . . strikeouts, had a 22-9 record
NEW YORK (AP) -Tom Seaver. "I've gone through the 
Jones, of the San Diego Padres. 1971• fh ye~ ~n ~~l~h h~ feblt he and a 2.38 earned run average.
Seaver knew exactly how Ran­same thing." 
was e s Pl c er m ase-He received 15 first place votes
dy Jones felt when the Baseball 
ba,l,l. . from the 24-man BBWA com-
Writers Association of America Seaver and Jones, the NL's "I thought the voting would 
I .felt. I p1t~~ed wei~ en~ugh mittee. Jones was the NL's
announced Wednesday the win­only 20-game winners, were b~ closer," said Seaver, who 
to wm m .71, he sa1d. But only other 20-game winner and
ner of the National League's considered the only real candi­had won the awar~ twice be­
t~ey gave 1t to Ferguso~ Je~-led the league with a 2.24
1975 Cy Young Award. dates for the trophy that goes fore, after leading the New 
kms. If Jones had won 1t th1s earned run average
"I'm sure it was a big dis­to the league's best pitcher. York Mets to pennants in 1969 
year, I wo~ld~'t , ha~e felt as For Seaver, the· Cy Young
appointment for him," said The writers picked Seaver, giv-and 1973. He didn't win it in 
badly as I d1d m 71. Award capped a comeback sea­. In 1971, Seaver started on the son. He had struggled to a sor­fmal day of the season and won ry 11-11 record the year before his 20th game. It was no coinci-plagued throughout the year by
AROTC students satisfied 
~ence that he also started the a painful sciatic nerve condi­fmal game of the 1975 season tion in his hip. 
(continued from page 1) 

Among others considered to be prospects for the court ap­pointment: Atty. Gen. Edward 
J. Levi; Shirley M. Hufstedler of Los Angeles, a federal ap­peals court judge; Mary Cole­man, a justice of the Michigan Supreme Court; William T. Coleman Jr., secretary of Transportation; and Sen. Rob­ert P. Griffin of Michigan, dep­uty Republican leader in the Senate. 
Ford's nomination will be 
subject to confirmation by the 
Senate. 

First Lady Betty Ford had said she would try to persuade the President to put a woman on the high court, where none has ever served. 
Douglas was on the bench Wednesday after being hospi­talized twice in the past two weeks. He left about a 30 min­utes before the court recessed for lunch. 
He wrote the President that he had hoped to be able to con­tinue as a justice. "I have learned, however, after these last two months, that it would be inadvisable for me to at­tempt to carry on the duties re­quired of a member of the court," Douglas said. 
Douglas suffered a stroke last Dec. 31. He said in his letter how he tried to continue on the bench and thanked Chief Jus­tice Warren E. Burger and his other colleagues for extending him "every courtesy and gener­ous consideration." 
Hickey to assess 

St. John's College 
Dr. William A. Hickey, vice­president for academic affairs at Saint Mary's College, was selectee to serve on a three-member evaluation team studying Saint John's University in Collegeville, Minn. 
The goal of the evaluation team, which met on the Saint John's campus Oct. 16-17, was to assess the· university's year-old Curriculum and Program Development <C&PD) program and to study the impact C&PD will have on the university. 
Although the evaluation did not focus on individual projects, the study team suggested revisions and modifications of the program so that C&PD will have maximum impact during the next five years. 
After studying the program, each consultant was asked to draft a report assessing C&PD and proposing directions it might take in the future. 
Dr. Hickey was the representat· ive from a liberal arts college. 
Other members of the evaluation team were Dr. Bernard J. Luskin, vice-chancellor for educational planning and development of the coast community college district, Costa Mesa, California, and Dr.' Gordon Kingston, director of a program for educational development at the University ot Minnesota. 
Rape talk tonighl 
Elkhart police officer Micki White will give a presentation and a film on rape tonight at 7 p.m. in t­he south lounge of Walsh Hall. All students are invited to attend. 
> 'l I 
' ~ • I 

• 'l , .~ ' ,I 
Douglas was a frequent dis­senter throughout his career on the bench. His outspoken stance aroused strong feelings. Liberal elements in the Democratic party promoted him for the presidency in both 1948 and 1952. On the other hand, critics tried twice to impeach him. 
The first impeachment reso­lution was offered in 1953 by Rep. William M. Wheeler, D­Ga., after Douglas granted a stay of execution to convicted atom spies Julius and Ethel Rosenberg. 
Part of the foundation's mon­ey came from Las Vegas gam­bling properties. A House sub­committee found no grounds for impeachment and Douglas re­signed from his foundation post. 

International students meet· 
The ND-SMC International Student Organization has an­nounced its activities for the remainder of this semester beginning with a social gathering tonight at the SMC clubhouse from 
l:l p.m. until midnight. 

This is the first activity planned by the ISO under the leadership of a new president, William Sword. All members and friends are asked to attend. 
Planned for this Sunday is the India Diwali <Festival of Lights) Dinner which will feature Indian delicacies, Indian dances and songs. 
This event is said to combine the American 4th of July, Christmas and New Year's into one celebration. It is annually held at St. Patrick's School auditorium in 'South Bend for a fee of $2.50 per person. There was a turnout of approximately 300 people last year, and about the same is ex­
this year. 
ONIGHT 

Pitcher Beer Night , WITH 
BRUCE CARR 
e White House Inn 
8 mi. N. of State Line Take 31 to Niles, then North on 51, 3 miles 683-9842 
an.?  won  No.  22.  .  
Yes, that  was  parball~  why  
I start~d  t.~at  last game,  Sea­ 

v~r sa1d. The club wa_nted to glve .m~ the best shot, 1t could at wmmng the award. 
Seaver, who ~et ~ ~ajor lea~ue record w1th h1s e1ghthstra1ght season of 200 or more 
A specialist, Dr. Kenneth Ri­land, diagnosed the problem and straightened Seaver out with five minutes of hip mani­pulation that set up the big comeback. 
Now Seaver talks in terms of pitching for perhaps five more years. 
SMC RELIGIOUS STUDIES COURSES 
FOR SPRING 1976 
101 The Bible 9TT11; 10TT12; 1TT3 Werner 
111 The Religious Attitude 3MWF Malits 
131 Christianity and the Moral Life 9MWF & 2 
MWF Krause 

151 The Catholic Experience 12MWF & lMWF Heaney 191 Theology and Life Colloquium Malits 251 The Christian Tradition 1TT3 & 2TT4 Heaney 299 Religion and Values (see ND THeo 372 Religion
and Urban Experience) ' 
311 Story and Theology 1TT3 Malits, Burrell, Hauerwas 315 The Bible and the Arts 2TT4 Werner 
For SMC students, 100-200 level courses fulfill core requirement; 300-400 are electives. For ND st­udents, 100-200 RLST courses count toward Theo requirement as first courses; 300-400 qualify as Theo second courses. 
Registration Thurs., November 13, through Thurs., November 20; 8:30 a.m. -4 p.m. in RLST alcove ground floor, North Wing, Madeleva. ND student~ must register in the SMC Religious Studies Dept. for RLST courses. Order for registration will be stri~tly obs~rv.ed: Seniors beginning Thursday; Jumors begmmng Friday; Sophomores beginning ~ond_ay; ~reshmen beginning Tuesday. Ident-
Come You Fightin' Irish 
TO TOWN & COUNTRY
CAGE 
·FOR YOUR FAVORITE 
THE 
WINES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM
PANTHERS 
LIQUOR • WINE 10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC 1.0. BEER • BEST PRICE IN TOWN VOLUME DISCOUNT FREE DELIVERY 
FREE DELIVERY 
• , ,. ,. . • a' 
1

·c•, r ~~ ·~ t , r rt· 1 t' r .,. .~,.~~~.I' ~l"'"r ···rr: r'l ,..,..,.,,(.,,_.,.,.,,.rt'<r·+· .·r.trt-r~r.•r. ~...l'.•r..., ... ,''-<'•r'r,' r· ~·r ... ,,.,~~·'" " 'f' ..-~ ....,. .. ,.,..-t
c• f _,. !Jo 



-------------------------------~--~~---
Thursdey, November 13, 1975 the observer 
11

Back-dated papers 
Nixon appraiser f~und guilty of perjury 
CHICAGO (AP> -A federal president an illegal $450,000 tax donations. 
Prosecutor Jay Horowitz told
court jury today found literary break for donating his vice­
presidential papers to the Na­the jury that 600,000 items wereappraiser Ralph G. Newman delivered March 27, 1969, for
guilty of lying about the date tional Archives. 
The jury retired Tuesday storage in the National Ar­Hichard M. Nixon gave his chives but were not actually do­
vice-presidential papers to the night after deliberating for 
three hours. The jury foreman nated until April 1970, nearlynation to claim an illegal $450,· nine months after the Tax Re­
informed McGarr of U.S. Dis­
ooo tax break. 
The U. S. District Court jury trict Court that the five woman­form Act took effect on July 26, 
deliberated nearly five hours seven man jury was not close 1969. before returning the verdict to to verdict. Horowitz said Nixon claimed
a Newman faces a maximum
Judge I<'rank J. McGarr. a donation on his 1969 tax re­
sentence of five years in prison 
turn and took a $450,000 deduc­Newman, 64, a Lincoln schol­and a $10,000 fine. 
tion. The IRS later disallowed ar and president of the Chicago In closing arguments, the the deduction and ordered him
Library Board, was accused of government contended that · to pay $271,000 in additionallying to the Internal Revenue Newman backdated a deed to taxes.
Service about his appraisal of the papers in an effort to avoid the Nixon docum~nts. He was the constraints of the Tax Re­Newman and Frank DeMarco accused of backdating Nixon's form Act of 1969 which dis­were indicted by a federal papers to allow the former allowed tax deductions on such grand jury in Washington last 
ND swimathon set lor Nov. 23 
by Dave Gill Corvilla. Fame in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., 
Staff Reporter "Also," said senior swimmer which sponsors clinics and Bob DiTolla, "it helps finance a swimming programs.winer training program for us. The swimathon consists of each 
The varsity swim team's annual member of the swimming teamswimathon has been set for 7 p.m., "In the past, we've gone to San contacting several people or
Nov. 23, at the Rockne Memorial Juan, Puerto Rico, but this year we organizations to sponsor an in­swimming pool. may go to Florida or Arizona," he dividual swimmer for a penny,added.
The swimathon was started four nickel or dime per length of the years ago to finance programs for "The money is also sent to the pool with a maximum of 200 
the retarded at Logan Center and International Swimming Hall of lengths. Letters are sent to the swim­• on to have mers' home towns for sponsors.
Mock Conventl Sponsors are also obtained on campus at Notre Dame and St. 
St. Mary's women's caucus~.M~~~~-oximately 25 swimmers usually participate in the event, 
by Paul Waller "Our major job will be to provide with the average intake around 
Staff Reporter research," she stated, "and then $100 per swimmer. we will hold hearings to inform the If anyone is interested in writers of the platform on the sponsoring a swimmer, contact 
A women's caucus is being issues involved." Bob Ditolla at 288-6533. 

A~ Place IQ Be! When? Tomorrow (and every Fri) A chance to be with good people for Mass and informal supper. Everyone welcome -Mass at 5:15 TOMORROW·!··.· ~ · · • • · · · · · · · 
February. The charges against ward L. Morgan, who Horowitz DeMarco , however, were dis­said teamed with Newman and missed Oct. 9 when a federal DeMarco to conceive a plan to judge in Los Angeles ruled De­evade the new tax act, pleadedMarco had been deprived of a guilty to tax fraud conspiracyfair trial. and spent four months in pris­
A White House lawyer, Ed-on. 
Army ROTC letsyou qualify for a doublelife! 
You can earn a commission while you earn your degree. 
And that doubles your vocational opportunities. You can pursue either a civilian career or serve as an officer. 
Either way, Army ROTC trains you for success. You learn valuable leadership and management skills which usually aren't offered by any courses. 
You make no commitment when you enroll in the Basic Course. You can ace it or flunk it. Or, you can drop it. That all depends upon you. 
But you owe it to yourself to look into Army ROTC. It might be your thing. At least it's worth checking into. 
Freshmen can preregister Nov 13-20, 1975, for Army ROTC during the Spring semester. Army ROTC 
notre dame. ind.46556 ~ phone: 283-6264 
~ A.rmy ROTC. Learn what it takes to lead.
formed at St. Mary's College as a part of the Notre Dame 1976 Mock Convention. 
The caucus will be mainly concerned with informing the delegates and the platform writers on some of the major issues concerning women, according to co~hairpersons Ellen Minter and Grace Restive. 
Beginning on Turs., Nov. 20, the group will begin holding meetiings to decide which topics will be covered and then the approximat­ely 60 volunteers will start researching. 
Minter, a senior at St. Mary's, said that some of the topics might include the Equal Rights Amend­ment, abortion, or family plan­ning. 
Minter said they would also request delegates to attend these meetings and invite local speak­ers. 
Minter said that the research would include such things as seeing how a particular senator feels about a certain issue. 
The mock convention will be held March 3-6 at Stepan Center. 
SMC sophomores to sponsor dance 
St. Mary's College sophomore class will sponsor a semi-formal dinner at the Holiday Inn in Niles, on Sat., Nov. 22. 
Cocktails at 6 p.m. will feature a cash bar. Dinner will be served at 
6:45 p.m. Tickets are $11.50 per couple. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Lost: Me since Fri. Without ID'sWANTED 
and camera. Were in Maroon Arch ltecture Students present purse. Will do almost anytlng for I·
Wanted: Ride to Toledo this 
BEAUX ARTS BALL. Saturllay, hem. Lost near Nickles. If foundFriday. Call Peggy, 6661. 
November 15, Music by Stratus. please call Debbie. Reward. 272­0.C92. .
10pm to 3 am. Tickets available InWanted: Need ride to Louisville 
Architecture Library. single 2.50,
for Thanksgiving break, Nov. 24 or 
couple 5.00. Refreshments PERSONALS
25, Call Carol, 683.C. 
available. Kathie, Karen, Claire, Judy,Need 2 Pitt tickets. Call 1522, $$. 
When are we having the party?
Gay Hotline: information, talk & 
RogerNeed ride to Cincinnati Nov. 1.C, friends. Gay Students of Notre Will share driving and expe'nses, 4-Dame. Call 8870, 8 · 10 p.m., Fri. 

FRIDAY Is National Ove~alls Oayll
and Sat.
53.c7' 
Watch for the Get-Down Hoe­Call 291-1887 about driving new 
Down.

Used Books and Paperbac~s Large around Dec. 20th. Couple need stock of general reading material Granada to Manchester, Missouri, 
Happy Birthday to "The DON",
and O.P. books. Bring this ad and receive one free paperback with driver. All expenses. References. 
from the Dinty Moore Family. 
Wanted: 2 Pitt tickets. Top dollar. any $1.00 purchase. The Code 10-2: This is your basic birth·
Bookstack, 112 W. Lexington, Elkhart, IN 4651.C. 
Call Mark, 288-5261. 
day wish. "Happy Birthday, Patrice Dermody."
I need a ride to Cinn. or Dayton Love,area Tuesday, Nov. 25. Ann, 8803. Accurate, fast typing. Call Mrs. 
The Inferno & CO.

Donoho. 232-07.C6. 
Need ride to Syracuse, NY area, 
Happy Birthday space "Women"
Friday, Nov. 21. Call 6804. · BOOK SHOP. 30,000 Books and 
Alias Lo, Love,
Prints. Ralph A. Casperson Books. Need Pitt tix. 272-3294. 1303 Niles-Buchanan Road,NIIes. Hours Wed.,Sat., Sun. 9-7 or 
Mo, Ho, Jo, and Vo 

Wanted: 5 Pitt tickets. Call Lou chance. 
Happy\ Birthday, BabyII
3316. 
All my love,

QUALITY STEREO EQUIP­
H.B.

Need ride to Madison, WI. Nov. 14. MENT· 30-60 percent off-factory Call Amanda, 4672. direct-guaranteed to beat any price in town! Golden Dome 
Dear Deb, Happy B~day to the best soul
Record & Music Co. 809 Flanner.
Need ride to Toledo this weekend. 
dancer in 3991!
Call Peggy, 6661. ph 1492. 
from the late night singer.D. B. •s FOR SALE Budepest night, 1989 Prairie Ave. 
woman And Ruthie Foofie Only Hungarian resurant in 
P.S. "smiles we gave to one ano­Super-Sealy double bed for sale. Michianll area. Open 5-10, Tues. t­ther" Mattress, box spring, frame . $50. ru Sat. ServingAmerican Dinners 
Today is Debbie Voelzke's hi· i
but specializing in Hungarian entrees. Serving beer and im­
Good shape. Call 272-6831. 
thday. lfyou wear leisure suits adldas, you•,·e cool .. so give h«
ported wines. For reservations call
For sale: 2 Goalie sticks for sale at call .. 4067.
234-2332.

$3.50 each. Call Tom at 3341. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND. $20-DON FREIBERT l SISO. 1 day waiting period, 1 per­LOUISVILLE, KENTUCK', Rent my upstairs. Near $50 mo. cent interest. Due in 30 days. INVITES ALL OF THE ND-SMr 
FOR RENT 

233-1329. Keep trying. LaFortune basement, m-F, 11:15-COMMUNITY TO A PRE-DERBY 
12:15. PARTY, ON THANKSGIVING DAY. FREE MICHELOB ON
One bedroom apartment in modern complex to sublet. Call Jewelry 33 perecent off TAPI BEDS AVAILABLE. DO 
283-7446 or 233-6561. Turquoise, sterling, coral and WHAT?? diamond engagement sets. 234­For rent: 2nd semester student 
7063. Sharpen your knives and forks ;tonight kids; Ed Byrne Is doinghouse. Very close to campus. 2 bedroom, paneled. All new kitchen 
THE ULTIMATE IN COMFOR­the cooking I appliancea and w..har. Rent 
T.Jasper pants only $10 at Jen. niter's, now at Scottsdale, upper South Dining Hall Workers: What
negotiable. Call Marty at ·2B7-5.iiJ. 
level, across from Scotch Mist. do you say about voting John For Rent: Two female housemates 
Barrie for Turkey on campus?Greyhound to Chicago. Every Frl,
wanted to share 3-bedroom house 
5:45. Leaves Main Circle. For Info,
Immediately and-or next 
ATTENTION ALL YOU DOMERS
Cllll Tom, 8338.
semester. 2'12 blocks from Angela­GOING TO THE PITT GAMEl!
NO intersection. Cali 289-.C303 
Glly. J Curuso, Class of '73 Is
LOST & FOUND
between 5-10 pm. 
1hrowirv a party at 9:30 pm Sat. Found: set of keys In red leather 
after ,._ game on the 9th floor of NOTICES 
case outside Library, 11-5. Call Tower 8 for only $1. Good tt\inp to Butch, 1628, to claim . 
~Ink and plenty of girls & guysPregnant and didn't mean to be? 
ctvlng to me.t a real Dom•. All
Call Birthright. 288-7640. 
Lost: One Voll football, South .-e welcome!! Platform committee hearing on 
Dining Hall last Thursday. Call 1600. Reward. 
....~.L

Gun Control for Mock Convention. __________ ~. 10 ' Tom Whelan really gets ott on thursday•• 8 :~0 pm, Library Aerosmlth, Kiss, and Sweet, but A.Udltorlum. Public Invited. hates Jackson Browne and Bruce Springsteen. 
...!.1~2:.____~t~h~e~o~b~s~e~rv.:...e~r____T_hu_rsdil----'--'~y, November 13, 1t75 
leers' premier line starting to click 
by Chip Scanlon 

When three players are aiming to be the top college line in the country what more can a coach ask for? This is what Notre Dame's top scoring junior line of Clark Hamilton, Alex Pirus and Brian Walsh are striving for in this year's hockey campaign. 
Irish hockey coach Lefty Smith can think of one more thing, an NCAA che:npionship for his team, and if Hamilton, Pirus and Walsh realize their goal Lefty could get 
his wish. 

Last year Notre Dame lost some key individuals to injuries and academic ineligibility which coused some big changes in the roles different players had been playing. The losses caused. one thing for sure, it put the bulk of the scoring responsibility on a line comprised of three sophomores, Walsh, Hamilton and Pirus, who had accounted for a total of 34 goals in their initial campaign. Walsh had accounted for half of this totaL 
But some players respond best 
when the nressure is on and that is 
just whai these three sophomore~' 
did in fhe toughest collegiate 
hockey league in the country. 
Before the season was over the line 
had accounted for 64 goals, a little 
Jess than half of the entire squad's 
production for the 1974-75 season. 
Brian Walsh emerged as team 
leader in both scoring and 
leadership. Pirus and Hamilton 
followed Walsh closely in the 
scoring category, managing 23 and 
17 goals respectively to Walsh's 
total of 24. As a unit they becamet 
. ·'._; .. '
'\~·:'_ 
·: ,, ''"' 

-..,~ . 
~ 
·c;.;,·· 
• -'-.~4-t \ ., 
1 
~ ~ 
. 
.....a. 
y 
,.... ,,~ .·· . ;;; ~·­·-----·--·--­

•
-NO's top line of Brian Walsh, Clark Hamilton and Alex Plrus wreaked havoc on opposing goal 

•
tenders last season. one of the most feared lines in the And in this young season Walsb, four goals that weekend and the big WCHA · both as a result of their Hamilton and Pirus are up to their line was shut out in the scoring scoring as well as their ext­old tricks. After getting off to a department. racurricular activities on the ice. slow start against Michigan State But according to Clark Hamilton 
In the course of the season the t­the law of averages payed off and the lines play was not as bad as the rio accounted for 125 penalties for the Walsh line accounted for nine statistics made them out to be. a total of 275 minutes, a figure that goals as well as their average ''There were a lot of missed looms in the back of opposing number of penalties against chances at State," the winger skaters minds as they go into the Colorado College. remarked. "What we learned that corners with anv of the three. T­Michigan State was able to weekend was how good we really heir physical intimidation is a accomplish something in that first were," he said. "It helped us play constant source of distress for series that other teams would like better at Colorado by giving us anyone who happens to be within to do; keep Hamilton, Pirus and confidence in our play despite striking range of these three skat­Walsh in check for a weekend being kept offthe board." ing marauders. series. Notre Dame was held to And MSU had luck on their side 
too as Brian Walsh managed to hit 

the post on three occasoins. When 
Extra Points 

Rumors, denials, incessent bowl talk and constant criticism seems to dominate the Notre Dame sports scene these days. Let's tune in and find out what's really going on. DEVINE HEADED FOR MSU? 
The latest of the Devine-centered rumors comes from the pages of the Michigan: State student newspaper, the State News. In Friday's edition the paper claimed MSU officials had been in contact with Devine regarding the vacant Spartan atheletic directorship. 
When the State News spoke! with Devine last Thursday afternoon, the Notre Dame coach was quoted as saying, "I cannot make any statements on the matter." 
Late Friday afternoon, Devine issued a denial through the Sports Information Department saying in part, "I don't have any intention of leaving here. I'm very happy at Notre Dame." 
What gives the story credibility is that Devine coached and received his master's degree from Michigan State. He was an assistant at East Lansing for four years before taking the head job at Arizona State in 1955. 
Yet the offer would have to be a sweet one for Devine to consider leaving DuLac. Besides who would want to get into the mess they have at MSU. The football program is under NCAA investigation and the basketball team is rifilied by dissensiop. 
So this story belongs with the earlier re_ports 'of Devine's future, in the thoroughly unfounded column. CliiCAGO PAPER SAYS BAND IS PREPARING FOR COTTON BOWL: 
Credit the Chicago Sun-Times for this piece of journalistic wizardry. In a blurb on the back page, the paper quoted an unknown source saying that the Notre Dame band has been given the go ahead to prepare for the Cotton Bowl. 
"That's untrue,"Robert O'Brien, the band 
director said. "Our band just simply doesn't 
operate that way." 

"That story is a terrible thing," Ed Krause, Notre 
Dame's athletic director added. "We have not 
accepted a bowl slot. Before we do, the decision is 
subject to a vote of the athletic board, the players 
and coaches." 

I forgot to ask if the band members got to vote. 
ELl WHITNEY WANTS NOTRE DAME: 
An informed source told me today that if Eli Whitney were alive he'd want Notre Dame in the Cotton BowL After all, the three greatest things that happened to the cotton industry are the gin, the Cotton Bowl and Notre Dame. The Eli Whitney Bowl has been downplayed in recent years after receiving widespread attention in 1969 and 70 when the Irish played Texas. The Cotton Bowl officials remember those games too. If you think Notre Dame is going to beat Pittsburgh Saturday, then 
start looking for hotel rooms down in Dallas for the New Year's week. THE FUZZY BOWL PICTURE: 
If you think the bowl scene is complicated, then just sit down and figure things out. For on New Year's day, things could go somewhat like this: Ohio State will defeat Oklahoma in the Orange Bowl, Alabama will down Texas in the Sugar Bowl, Nebraska will hold off undefeated and number one­ranked Texas A & M in the Cotton Bowl and Michigan will be tied by Stanford in the Rose Bowl. Thus Ohio State will be national champion, but not Big Ten champion. REMEMBER PITTSBURGH: 
The Pitt Panthers would like nothing better than to throw a monkey wrench into the Irish bowl plans. The Panthers are lean and hungry after an 11 year starvation versus the Irish. Tony Dorsett is one of the most explosive runners in the country and the Pitt attack, though inconsistent, is capable of ex­ploding from anywhere on the field. Pitt is overdue and last year the Panthers came within three minutes of beating the Irish. This time, look for Pitt and ND to hook up in another thriller. FEMALE STUDENT MANAGERS: 
"It's impossible under the present system to incorporate women into our organization," Dave Hadley, one of the head student managers, ex­plained. "Under the present system, a manager is rated on all phases of his work including in the of­fice, on the field and in the locker room." 
It can be argued that if schools like Northwestern and Georgia Tech have female student managers, then why can't it happen at Notre Dame. The system can be amended so that women can rise to the position of administrative manager. The personell manager is one of the three head managers and this job can certainly be handled by a woman. 
But the managers don't see it this way and as one 
manager put it, "We don't need women. We get 
along better without them." 
CHEERLEADERS AND BAND UNDER FIRE: 
Never before has. there been such adamant 
criticism against the symbols of the spirit of the 
Irish. The Notre Dame fans have never needed a 
band or any other form of stimulant to get psyched 
up. The cheerleaders and band are doing thtHr best 
to incorporate new ideas into the Notre Dame 
tradition. 

These organizations change from year to year as 
do the members of the football team. If taken with 
the correct attitude, one can see no reason to be 
irate about the condition of our band and 
cheerleaders. Everyone is supposedly out there to 
have fun. Why is it that t!.e zealous desire for 
perfection on the pa. t of Notre Dame fans and 
students always overshadows that fact? All that 
criticism can't be warrante.... 
little things like that start to go 
against you sometimes players begin to press and more often · than not this results in frustration. 
AI Pirus seemed to think that th­is is what happened at State. "It was the first series and a lot of little things were going wrong," he remarked. "State was a refining process that helped us to settle down and put the puck in the corners," according to Pirus. 
Brian Walsh summed up their feelings when he said, "All we needed was one goal and we knew we would be off and running.'' Too bad Eddie Mio didn't know that because after helet Pirus score that first goal it triggered eight more scores for the line and a lot of. aggrevation lor Colorado's All­American goalie. 
Now that the initial goal has been 

scored the junior line can forget 
about the first two series and look 
to the long season ahead. All three 
are striving to end up with All­
American honors this year, but if it 
means sacrificing some individual 
glamour to win, they're all for it. 
Walsh was the first to point out 

that "winning comes first, that's 
most important." This year is the 
year of the Irish according to the 
trio, and dedication is the name of 
the game. 
"The team has a different at­

titude this year," Hamilton said. 
"We're dedicated to winning this 
year, that's something that wasn't 
really present last year." 
So far this season the team has a 

look of dedication about it. If this 
dedication can persist over -the 
course of the season it won't be too 
surprising when three Juniors 
Brian Walsh, Alex Pirus and Clark 
Hamilton, end up as the besUine in 
the country. And of course, don't 
count out Lefty's wish either. 

This year the line showed promise of repeating their spectacular performance as they accounted for nine goals against Colorado College last weekend. 
ND harriers competing in NCAA qualifying meet 
by Mike Towle 

Thz Notre Dame cross country resumes its schedule this Saturday when they participate in the NCAA District 4 qualifying meet. The meet will be run over a hilly, six mile course in Bloomington, In­diana and is to begin at 10 a.m. 
Coach Joe Paine is optimistic about th Irish·· fortunes, "Last year, we had the most individuals from any one team to qualify for t­he natonals in the likes of Joe Yates and Him Hurt. We hope to been improving throughout the fall season along with fellow freshmen Vanderkaats and Miranda. Yates, a senior has run inconsistently, but appears on the verge of running a great race. Reinhart has probably been Notre Dame's steadirst runner all year. 
The top five teams in Saturday's meet will qualify for the NCAA championship which will be held at Penn State on November 24. The top ten individuals not on one of the five qualifying teams will also earn the right to compete in the nationals. 
qu:~itf6 ~a~e!e~dth~~:a~;l be B-ball scrimmage running i~ this year's districts and on Sunday n1. ght
along wtth freshman standout, 
Steve Welch, they form a one-two­three nucleus th~t must ~ank as one of the best m the Mtdwest: H.urt and . Welch have had htp ailments m recent weeks, but s.hould be near 100 per cent by race time. Other Notre Dame runners making the trip will be Jay Miranda, Dan Horgan, Jim Reinhart and Dennis Van­derkraats. 
This Notre Dame team is one of its strongest in recent years although it has been hurt by the injury to Captain Hurt. Welch has 
There will be a basketball scrimmage Sunday night in the main arena of thz ACC. Digger Phelps invites all to attend the free display of the 1975-76 Irish. Tip-off will be at 7:00p.m.
J .t
Jayvee J.OOtball game Cancelled 
The Notre Dame junior varsity contest with Michigan scheduled for tomorrow afternoon in Lansing has been cancelled. 




