Budget decides salary increases 
by Maureen Flynn St>nior Starr Reporter 
The percentage increase in faculty salaries for 1976-1977 cannot be determined until spring, according to Fr. James T. Burt­chaell. university provost. Burt­ehaell stated yesterday that work on next year's budget has just begun. 
"The Budget Priorities Com­mittee is just beginning its work," Burtchaell said. "They will be working all through the winter. We won't know about precise figures until next fall." 
The University Provost com­mented on a report from the Faculty Senate Committee on Faculty Affairs, in which it was noted that average Notre Dame faculty salaries lag behind those of both the Big Ten schools and other "peer institutions." 
Notre Dame faculty salaries actually rank in the midst of those of the "peer institutions," Burt­chaell said, because some of those schools pay lower salaries. The peer group used in the comparison includes Vanderbilt, Cornell, Duke, Northwestern, Indiana, Southern California, St. Louis University, Iowa, Emory and Pittsburgh. Figures were taken from the American Association of University Professors <AAUP> Summer Bulletin, 1975. 
The University Provost noted that nine out of the Big Ten schools receive funds from their state legislatures. "Institutions that have more money can pay higher salaries," he stated. 
Burtchaell reaffirmed his higher salaries and offer better 
statement in the 1975 Notre Dame retirement plans." 
Ht>port No. 9 that "higher pay is Burtchaell admitted that 
the strongest and sometimes the compelilion for top-notch faculty 
sole advantage these state in­"has always been a problem and 
stutions have to offer in com­always will be. We're trying to 
petition with institutions like Notre counteract this problem with 
Dame, which are known to have endowed chairs," he said. 
other. non-fiscal attractions for Increasing current salaries will 
scholars." affect the University's ability to 
Burtchaell cited the quality of add to its faculty, Burtchaell 
the student body, the Catholic acknowledged. "Whenever you 
character of the University, the choose to maximize the salaries of 
tendency among faculty to form the people who are already here, 
very deep friendships and the high you are going to limit your ability 
measure of academic freedom as to hire new people," he said. "In 
some of these attractions. the past five years we have not 
The report from the Faculty l'xpanded our faculty at all." 
Affairs committee expressed the "We could raise tuition a lot," 
hope that "the University's 'non­the Provost noted, "but then we 
fiscal attractions' can continue to would have a different student 
attract the very best scholars body. We'd be taking students on 
away from institutions who, in an the basis of affluence, not in­
age of economic hardship pay telligence," he said. 
Students to evaluate rectors in the spring 
by Valerie Zurblis Also, there IS different criteria Wire Editor today than ten years ago for a rector, Lally continued. He must Assistant Vice President of be available in the dorm, be able to Student Affairs Fr. Terry Lally cope with student problems, and be announced Tuesday the Student "together". Most rectors are Affairs office will conduct an involved in other affairs such as unprecedented rector evaluation degree work and as a result leave 
by students by the end of the spring their posts to pursue other in­semester. terests. 
Lally commented that the action "Each year, there is a large 
is a direct result of a suggestion by turnover (of rectors) and we often 
the Committee of Undergraduate promote from within. We're 
Life < COUL) report and the committed to the C.S.C. order and 
request of the Board of Trustees. keep in close contact with 
"If the results of the evaluation provinces and personnel direc­are interpreted correctly, it will be tors," Lally stated. a big help to all concerned," stated Hectors' contracts are renewed Lally. every year and they are self­
Lally pointed out that the evaluated twice a year. The evaluations will be similar in rectors also confer with Br. Just format to the course evaluations Paczesny, vice-president of and the questions will be as Student Affairs. The student relevant to the hall as possible. evaluation will be the first of its 
Lally explained the complex kind. 
"There are less anti-rector
process of choosing new rectors. 
Criteria needed a feelings now than at any other time 
in potential I remember because they arerector is religious leadership, being better people and do not capitulateable to work with students, to just what the students want,"provide leadership to the Lally remarked. "We know theresidential community through a strengths and weaknesses aboutqualified hall staff, have program the situation because the studentsdevelopment and educational are more vocal now. Before theyleadership outside the classroom just couldn't be," he added.
to better facilitate overall growth, Lally feels the evaluation will beand be able to hold administrative helpful and added, "Most rectors Iduties in the hall. Male rectors are know would welcome it."
of the C.S.C. order. 
Dictator for 36 years 
Franco dies at82 
MADRID, Spain <AP> -Gen­in Europe. Death for the 5-toot eralissimo Francisco Franco, 4-inch Franco, a cold and cal­dictator of Spain for 36 years, culating man who led a spartan is dead, the government an­life, came at another critical nounced Thursday. He was 82 juncture for Spain. and had been gravely ill for Neighboring Portugal was in more than a month. throes of its first experiments 

Franco's wife, daughter and with democracy after nearly private chaplain had rushed to half a century of dictatorship, the hospital earlier after doc­and Spain too was heading into tors announced that the old uncharted political waters. The general's brain activity had vir­government was taking steps to tually ceased and that "all pull out of Spanish Sahara, hope is lost." Western Europe was still bitter 
Aided by a score of doctors, over the execution of five 

Franco had held on to life tena­young terrorists by Franco's .ciously since he was first right-wing regime, and leftist stricken Oct. 17. His heart, guerrillas and Basque separa­lungs and kidneys began failing tists were poised for more vio­in quick succession, but his lence. staying power astounded even 
Prince Juan Carlos de Bor­
his own medical team. His bon, 37, Franco's handpickedbody wasted away, but he still heir who was made temporarystruggled back from three ma­chief of state Oct. 30 as thejor stomach operations to re­

stricken Franco showed no
move ulcers and stop massive signs of recovery and who willinternal bleedinj;t. 

become Spain's first king in 44-Government officials say they years, has indicated he will beare alert to the possibility of a open to orderly politicalright-wing chorus of "long live change.
Franco!" when the funeral cor­He will take the name Kingtege moves through Madrid. 

Juan Carlos I.
But they acknowledge they can 
do little to stop it. 
The big question is what sort With the help of Hitler and of government will develop for Mussolini, Franco came to pow­Spaniards, effectively locked er in the 1936-39 Spanish Civil out of the political process for 

War that left about a million 36 years.Spaniards dead and became a 
' 

testing ground for Woi"ld. War II .. (ct!lntlnued on poge 10) 

prea~utlons 
unrverslfy of notre dame sf. mary's college
Vol. X, No. 57 
Thursday, November 20, 1975 

To protect valuables 
Tallarida warns students 
by Jim ('ommyn Staff Reporter 
Director of Off Campus Housing 

Fr. Thomas Tallarida called for off 
campus residents to "use their 
heads" about protecting valuables 
over the Thanksgiving vacation. 
"Students must think ahead," 

Tallarida said, "and take the 
necessary precautions, par­
ticularly if they are not going to be 
in the South Bend area for the 
break." 
Tallarida urged off campus 

students to take home most of their 
valuables or to make 
arrangements to leave them on 
campus with a friend. "All items, 
whether they are stored on campus 
or left off campus, should be 
marked in some manner," he said. 
In addition, Tallarida stressed 

the importance of having 
valuables insured. "Depending on 
parent's insurance is not enough anymore,"he explained. 
Tallarida added that students 

should notify their neighbors that 
they will be away so that mail and 
papers will not pile up making the 
house an easy target for a rob­
berty. "House sitters are another 
possibility," Tallarida suggested. 
Tallarida continued and 
discussed the South Bend crime statistics pertaining to off campus students. 
In September valuables worth $7700 were taken from off campus students' homes. In October items worth $7800 were reported stolen. 
"Thus far in November," Tallarida said, "over $4000 in valuables has been stolen." Tallarida indicated that this total comes only from two robberies. 
"Students appear to be hit a greater number of times than other residents," Tallarida said. ''They are vulnerable and that fact is showing up in police statistical reports." 
Tallarida went on to explain a new program his office has In­stituted to check each home for its crime prevention features. 
"Windows seem to be the main way of access for burglars," Tallarida explained. His staff has started compiling a checklist of where windows are located in the house, the doors and the basement. Tallarida emphasized the need for adequate locks on all parts of the house as well. 
"Leases are also a bit of a problem this year," Tallarida added. "Students don't seem to be reading the lease thoroughly before signing it." 
Tallarida cited two exculpatory 
clauses within leases students 
actually signed. Clauses of this 
type absolve the owner of guilt in 
certain matters, specifically those 
involving negligence. 
"The law frowns on this type of 
phrasing," Tallarida pointed out. 
"Some owners are still using them, 
apparently, and students who are 
unaware sign them anyway. That's 
what really gets to me." 
One clause reads as follows: "In the event that the premises are a portion of a building,containing more than one unit, tenant agrees to abide by any and all house rules, whether promulgated before or after the execution here of, in­cluding, but not limited to, rules with respect to noise, odors, disposal of refuse, pets, parking and use of common areas." 
Tallarida explained that clauses of this type do not allow the students any freedom to live his own life in any way. 
Another clause reads: "Owner shall not be liable for any damage or injury to tenant or any other person, or to any property oc­curing on the premises, or any part thereof, or in common areas thereof and tenant agrees to hold owner harmless from any claims for damages no matter how caused." 
Clauses of this type put an inordinate amount of the responsibility on the student tenant when the weight belongs on the owner, Tallarida said. 
Tallarida pointed out that not all the occupants of each house have signed the lease. "If there are groups living together, everyone must sign the lease and be responsibible for his own con­duct," Tallarida said. In the past some tenants have had one student accepting all responsibility, in­cluding financial burdens, for every one in the house. 
"In the future I expect to see only one name on any given lease only if that person is living alone," Tallarida said. 
Students desiring to move off campus for the second semester should check with the off campus housing before finalizing any plans. Students who are thinking of changing their current off campus residence should also check with Tallarida before doing anything. 
"I don't want the students to 
become paranoid," Tallarida said. 
"I just want them to understand all 
sides of the off campus· housing situation." · ' · · · · 



the observer Thursday, November 20, 1975 

warld briefs 
LONDON <APl-Special police, anti-terror squads and ~niffi~g dogs scoured Westminster palace prompted by bombmgs_ m London that have killed 8 people since August, and found nothmg. 
Police blame guerrillas of the outlawed Irish Republican Army for the recent wave of bombings here. 
WASHINGTON -The Senate Passed a long-disputed bill last night greatly broadening the authority of building trade unions to picket construction sites. 
The 52-45 vote appeared to end the 25-year controversy in Congress over the legislation, which would allow unions to try to close down an entire construction site, even if there is a dispute with only one subcontractor. 
PITTSBURGH (AP)-An air pollution emergency was declared yesterday here as stagnant masses of orange-brown haze sent air pollution readings off the charts. 
This is the second such emergency since 1970, and as a result county officials ordered industrial cutbacks, including a slowdown at U.S. Steel Corp.'s giant Clairton Coke Works. 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP)-The 1,625 pound Atmosphere Explorer E was fired into orbit last night to learn if manmade pollution is destroying the protective ozone layer around the earth. 
Too much laoo in the ozone layer would increase the risk of skin cancer and cause harm to crops, scientists say. 
NEW YORK <AP)-Martha Mitchell, estranged wife of former Atty. Gen. John N. Mitchell, has been admitted to Sloan Kettering Memorial Cancer Center here for treatment of a rare form of bone cancer she has had for several months. 

an campus taday 
1:30 p.m. -· lecture, "evaluating materials for fire resistance" architecture aud. 
4:00 
p.m. -· colloquium, "pre-watsonlan behaviorism" rm. 119 haggar hall. 

4:00 
p.m. ·-seminar, "non-thermal electron scavenging In the 


radiolysis of liquid ethanol" conference rm., radiation lab. 
7:00 p.m. --meeting, senate committee on retired faculty, rm. 210­213, CCE. 
7:30p.m. --concert, aerosmith, ACC tickets: $6, $5. 
7:30 p.m. --prayer meeting, all w~lcome, keenan-stanford chapel. 
Cleaver returns, confronts charges 
SAN DIEGO <APl -Black 

activist Eldridge Cleaver, re­
turning voluntarily after seven 
years in exile, was flown to 
California aboard a commercial 
jet Wednesday to face prose­
cution for parole violation and 
assault. 
He was whisked into a car 

for the five-mile trip to the 
Metropolitan Correctional Fa­
cility. 
Two federal marshals accom­

panied Cleaver off the red, 
white and blue American Air­
lines plane which stopped brief­
ly in Washington, D.C., en 
route from New York City. 
A half-dozen other U.S. mar­

shals and five San Diego Har­
bor police officers then es­
corted the former Black Pan­
ther information officer into the 
government car. More than 40 
reporters watched from inside 
the terminal building after po­
lice barred them from getting 
closer. 
Cleaver appeared to say noth­

ing. 
Olsen appointed to research labs 
Mary Ann Olsen, a senior chemistry major at Saint Mary's College, has been appointed to the 
Spring 1976 Undergraduate 
Research Participation Program
sponsored by the Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois. 
Olsen has been invited to the Argonne labs for a 16-week period, Jan. 12 to Apr. 30. Under the 
direction of C. E. Johnson of 
Argonne's Chemical Engineering Division, Olsen will work on the chemistry of irradiated nuclear fuels and will prepare a written 
report.of l)er findings. 
Wi_th her,:~~~o!~~~~t1,_2,lse!\.1'11!. . •;~ •.•. l*' .,.;:;A.',;;,liyt". u:./..~oJ.H,, •·~·JI9tV;P't'~~fii\Mf9"..itnd:Ju'~tlper.
rece1ve frt!e'·'1uuglng·· n Su1uem· • · · · 0 u. auu. 1n::; UUOAIJ (Emmons Rd.) Phone 272-5520 apartments at Argonne, a. travel .a..en · Mon-Frl untD t:OO Sundays noon untD 8:00 allowance, and an honoranum. ._.••••• • • • • •.• • •••·••••••••·•• • • • 
( * the observer l 
Night Editor: Val Zurblls Assistant Night Editor: John Calcutt Layout Staff: Jim Commyn, Jill Truitt, Jim Stevens Day Editor: Mary Reher Copy Reader: Don Reimer Features: Rah1Budbangs 
Sports: Fred Herbst Typists: · Karen Chiames, Karen Hinks, Marie McCarthy 
Compugraphic: Carolina 1 Night Controller: Dave Rust 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during 
exams and vacation periods. The Observer 1s published by the students of the Univ of Notre Dame and Sl Mary:s College. Subscriptions may be purchased 
tor 10 dollars per semester ( 18 dollars per year) from The Ob server, Box Q, Notre Dame, In d1ana. 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, tN 46556 
,



4,. . f#I
RIST ann~~ c · ....,.AWAKA 
..~:-"-•O•~O-.K•.-..-tnfAReifN~• -.....-.• 
...... 
8 • 
• ­
•
• is the 
•

e1BOOK SHOP 
e· 
e e for 
tt . 

eBOOK LQVERS Turn 
North 2 otocks east ot the 



These glee club members do a little high kicking in last night at Washington Hall. a bicentennial salute to George M. in the concert CPhoto by Tom Lose) 
Glee Club sings at Washington 
by John Hannan Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame Glee Club sang and danced their way into the hearts of a packed Washington Hall audience last night. 
The beginning of the program was highlighted by Petrarchian verse and the traditional Glee Club fare, including one latin standard, "Ave, Color Vini Clari." 
The show picked up speed from there and moved into the first the­eatrical section with a Bicen­tennial salute to George M. Coahn, featuring a seven man group wearing garters, skimmers and vests. Composed of Cohan's famous songs and a sharp choreography, the skit received intermittent applause and cap­tured the crowd with a firework 

studded finale of "Your a Grand Old Flag." 
The second skit taken from "West Side Story," immediately followed. It was a vignette titled "Gee, Officer Krupke", featuring a human couch, a heavily accented German psychiatrist <"zocial dizease" l, and well received slapstick. 
The intermission was led into by a round of Irish songs, highlighted by "Danny Boy." 
The second half of the show opened with an arrangement of "Let Us Break Bread", by David Isele, director of the Glee Club. Isele did an interesting job of the familiar arranging Mass staple. 
The all male club was then joined by two ladies, Mary Mills and Annette Conklin, to sing Brah­m's "Rhapsody Opus 53". 
"Drill Ye Tarriers" a humorous piece, also by Isele, led into the last of the Glee Club's skits: "A Metropolitan Medley,'' performed by six of the clubbers, it featured "Chatanooga Choo Choo", "Chicago, Chicago" and "New York, New York". 
Judging the audiences reacton, 

the skits would probably be rated as the forte of an overall fine performance -by the club, with the 
convincing acting job and the and the Glee Club replied with two 
pianist's fine ability to tickle encores, featuring "Our Father" 
ivories. "Ride the Chariot", and the well 
The show was officially closed by known "Notre Dame Or Mother." 
songs which the Glee Club's per­
formance would lead you to believe The Club exited to a standing 
were written especially for them: ovation, after once again 
"Notre Dame We Hail Thee" and demonstrating their worthiness of 
the "Victory March." the adjectives "smooth, 
The crowd would not be satisfied disciplined, professional." 

******************************* 
* * 
! * 4 Uhe i * *I" WitWjamme1 
* *
* * 

: Before going home : 
* * 

: * Thanksgiving let the Windjammer *t * *
* * 
: stqff help you : 
* * 
* * 

t look your sharpest. : * * 
* * 
* * 
* 1637 LWW SO. BEND PH. 232-6622 * ~ .. ALL SERVICES BY APPOINTMENT # 


'****-"'~ r••*•••*****************'. 

A Q.QQQ Place To Be! 
When? Tomorrow (and every Fri) A chance to be with good people 
for Mass and informal supper. 
Everyone welcome -Mass at 5:15 


.·.. \. ~ \. \. ~ ·. \. ._ . \. \. .. \, ".... \;. ." ... 
.. I{~~\-.~~;\-.. ""\.~\."" '• ~ .. ~ 

"'·' 
TOMORROW! 


--~~--------------------~----------------------------------------~ 

Burtchaell speaks on sex 
by Phil Cackley Starr Reporter 

Fr. James T. Burtchaell, University provost, spoke to the residents of Holy Cross Hall on the topic of human sexuality Tuesday night, stressing the commitment involved in sexual exchange. 
Burtchaell began his talk by paraphrasing two portions of the 19th chapter of Matthew's gospel. The first was concerned with verses 16 to 30, of which the central verse is verse 24: "It is easier for a camel to pass through a needle's eye than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God." 
This applies to everything, in­cluding a home, a mother, father. and wife. as well as money, Burt­ehaell said. 
The second set of verses he paraphrased were verses 3 to 12, concerned with the subject of divorce, which Christ opposed totally. This was in direct op­
position to the Jewish law. 

In both instances Christ was doing far more than answering specific questions directed at him, Burtchaell said. He was, in effect, setting up a new religion for the .h•ws. "He invites them to faith to 
a person, Himself, instead of obedience to a Jaw," Burtchaell explained. 
"This is a difficult faith, he said, because it is an "open-ended faith" in which you don't know what you're promising." Following a law is much simpler because Pverything is spelled out. 
For mock convention 
Co1n1nittee announces plans 
The Mock Convention Executive Committee yesterday announced the cancellation of its Public Platform Hearing on Nov. 20. The reason the hearing was cancelled was because there are too many other activities planned for this night. 
The topic was "Decriminaliza­tion of Marijuana." The next hearing is scheduled for Dec. 4 at 8 
p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
The Executive Committee also announced the scheduling of the opening address speaker and the keynote speaker. 
The Opening Address Speaker will be Hobert S. Strauss, chair­man of the Democratic Natimtal <'ommittee. 
Strauss served as the National Committeeman from Texas from l!llill-1972 during which time her served as Co-Chairman of the llumphrey-Muskie Committee in Texas. In March 1970 Strauss was l'lected Treasurer of the Democratic National Committee. In December 1972 he was elected Chairman of the National Com­mittee. Strauss is married and is the father of three children. 
Congressman Donald W. Riegle Jr. will serve as the keynote speaker for the Convention. 
HAVEA 

SAFE 
THANKSGIVING 
FROM YOUR FANS AT 
Milano's 
OPEN AT 4:00 PM 
412 N. HILL ST. PHONE 287-2891 
Marriage is very similar to this type of faith, Burtchaell said. It is giving one's self completely to another person with an open-ended 
faith.  Christ  rejected  the  old  
Jewish  conception  of  marriage  
which  was  baSed  on  law  and  
allowed divorce.  

Burtchaell commented that he didn't "think that the Church should describe marriage with divorce as an evil thing". This is not an evil form of marriage, he said, but is a far less demanding form. and consequently worse people result from such a union. 
He stressed that marriage is a valuable institution which forces people to grow. He said that in marriage Christ provides a new way to be a believer. "It is one of the most important institutions for turning a person inside out, from being selfish to selfless," Burt­chaell added. 
St•x in marriage 
"Sex and marriage are one," he stated, moving to the role of sexual exchange in marriage, and sexual exchange in general. It is a surrender of privacy in which something personal is shared and becomes part of both persons, he said. 
Fidelity is the keynote in this sharing and it is possible to have in such fidelity a deeper meaning to sex than the satisfaction of physical desires, he commented. Sex releases a deeper and more fulfilling sharing than can be found 


Congressman 
Congressman Riegle was born in 1938 and first elected to the House in 1966. He was named one of the Two Best Congressman for the year 1967 by the Nation Magazine. He also was named by Time 1\htgazine in July, 1974 as one of the top 200 national leaders under the age of 45 across the United States. 
Riegle presently served as a member of the House Committee on International Affairs. He is also author with T. Armbrister of 0 CONGRESS, a best-selling diary of Congressional life. 
PPY 

in the important but rather mundane incidents of sharing and caring which take place in everyday life. 
Burtchaell emphasized that sex is very demanding because of this deepness. "If people don't get that straight they are less human beings," he said. Sex and intimacy bring permanance because "sex craves commitment," he added. 
Promiscuity is bad, he said, but an affair is worse because it is untruthful --"It pretends per­manence and belonging without the reality." There is a truth to sex which is total surrender, Burt­chaell asserted. 
Burtchaell spoke for about a half -hour to the audience of 25 residents. Following this there was a question and answer period lasting one and a half hours during which there was considerable interaction between the provost and the residents. 
In response to a question if marriage meant it was good to only love a spouse while blotting out love for all others, Burtchaell said he felt this was merely a means of disguising a method for fulfilling selfishness. 
ND-SMC marriages 

He added that people who live in religious communities can fall prey to the same sort of problem, that they can feel as though they are surrendering themselves to a group, while merely providing for their own needs. 
Donald W. Riegle 




LOST OUR LEASE! 
Going Out of Business at 2004 Ironwood Circle 
Artificial Arrangements CHRISTMAS-FALL-SPRING 
PLANTS 25% OFF HANGING PLANTS lh PRICE 

CHRISTMAS GIFT ITUIS 
• lbuame 1/2 Price 
• PolteiJ 112 Price 
• WICIEI BASim •CAIIDLES 

GIFT ITEMS 
60%-70%-80% OFF 
GIR BOXES ALL SIZES lndilnl GIISs Gift Wr~ppin& 11Gws Rea. $3.00 STAC« FOR $1.00 90' Elch hill price $1.50 
~a Everything must go/"!{C3U/~ by November 26 1975 




~l. BR~~~ro~­
Thursday, November 20, 1975 
3 
Fr. Burtchaell commented that fidelity Is the key to marital sharing and can lead to a deeper meaning of sex than of physical desires. 
Another question was if it is true that some 80 percent of marriages between Notre Dame and St. Mary's graduates end in divorce. Burtchaell said this could not be true, because he knew over 20 percent of those married himself and they were not divorced. 
A formal study on this subject has been done only for Notre Dame graduates, of whom he said only 
1.5 percent were divorcees. He said a more comprehensive study could probably be done. 
When asked if the students would be informed if the results of such a poll might indicate that there was a high rate of divorces between ND-SMC graduates, Burtchaell hesitated and then answered yes, adding humorously "But we should forgive you to date." 
The subject of 

T E E'S ENTERTAINMENT PLACE IS 
RIVER BEND PUB 
N.D. STUDENTS PERFORMING 
TUESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY & SATURDAY from 9 PM 'TIL? 
EATURING 24 OZ. DRAFT $.6 
441 E. LASALLE AT NILES AVE 
Burtchaell commented, "There isn't anything wrong with con­traceptives, as long as they are not abortives." He said abortion is homicide. 
Joe Corpora, of Notre Dame Right to Life, asked if he thought the use of contraceptives leads to the practice of abortion on demand. Burtchaell said no. that the only tie between the two was that they were both methods of preventing the birth of children. 
Burtchaell stressed at several points in his talk that he feels the role of the Church should be to better prepare people for the "immense demands of marriage." "Our job is to have a much greater presentation of what marriage is," he said. 
After the talk Burtchaell mass in the Holy Cross 
\1r'1/ ,.•.,;.·,-:·· ..· 'i· ·,t •'t I 
I ,',;' : I 'tl ' ;;" "1 ' 
....-,,....._ 

-----~­

FREE BULOVA ACCUTRON WATCH DRAWING 

-SIGN UP NOW ­
-20% OFF on all Turquoise Jewelry 
-20% ·oFF on all Diamond and Opal Jewelry -15% OFF on all.clocks -FREE Accuracy test of your watch -Join our earring & ring club 
(Buy 5 and get one free) ASK FOR DETAILS 
HIRTH'S HOUSE OF TIME 
919 McKinley Hwy. College Square (Across from Town & Country) 
MISHAWAKA 
t~ 

ffmk%{ 
~ n=m~~
~IMJ ~~~ g:}~~~~
~~~~:i;~~~­
--·.' town & country --:­
shopping center 

Phone 255 -38 i 7 
CARD 
BOOKS MAGAZINES ART SUPPLIES MACRAME BEADS 
JUTE-WAXED LINEN _ NOVELTIES 2340 m1racle lane mishawaka, indiana 46544 
219/256-0111 
-COUPON­
$5.00 OFF JEANS WITH COUPON 
TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER STORE 
I( 
Coupon good thru Dec. 3rd 



ecn ~ s 
---~ men's shop, inc. 
BETHEL 



BOOKSTORES 

OPEN 10-9 MON.-FRI. 
OPEN 10-6 

SAT. 

Come You Fightin' Irish 
GO 
,, 
I 
I 
AT THE CORNER OF McKINLEY 
,l AND
t 


HICKORY 
TO TOWN & COUNTRY FOR YOUR FAVORITE 



WINES~LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
LIQUOR • WINE 
10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC 1.0. 
BEER· BEST PRICE IN TOWN VOLUME DISCOUNT 


FREE DELIVERY 
FREE DELIVERY 

'• •.•~.'.' ·•·• ,; .·':.·;:, •) _t! .tt .'•-.••·,''-... -:. .. ,,•·.\•.;..~&· •. ·~-·~ 
-----------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, November 20, 1975 the observer 
5 

Former Indy Governor Branigan dies at 73 
LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) 1972 when Republican Otis R. J{oger D. Branigin, whose wit Bowen won by 303,000. and disdain for officialdom The Branigin victory margin made him one of Indiana's surpassed the Indiana landslide most colorful and best-liked given President Lyndon John­governors, died Wednesday at son, and helped Democrats 
9:05 a.m. in Lafayette Home sweep all elective state offices 
Hospital. He was 73. and win control of the state leg­islature for the first time since
Branigin, a lifelong Demo­
1937.

crat, was elected as the 42nd Hoosier chief executive in 1964 Branigin, a third-generation in his first appearance on a Hoosier from Franklin who was statewide ballot, fulfilling a educated at Harvard, had been boyhood dream. He defeated ill for more than a year with a 
then-Republican Lt. Gov. Rich­liver ailment. He was hospi­ard 0. Ristine by 263,401 votes, tilized here Oct. 27 in serious a record that was to stand until but stable condition and his 
TV pays the salaies for the big leagues 
In the present-day crunch of soaring prices, sky-high sala­ries and tight money, TV pays the freight for most, if not all, of the big sports teams. It is responsible for the multimil­lion-dollar contracts handed out to the Joe Namaths and Catfish Hunters. It is a source of sur­vival. 
A $42 million contract with NBC saved the old American Football League and enabled it to negotiate a merger with the National Football League. The World Football League, with no major network TV, folded. 
The American Basketball As­sociation, with such interesting personalities as Julius Irving, Artis Gilmore and David Thompson, failed to get a TV t'Ontract. The result has been loss of important franchises and a mad effort to make some sort of marriage with the NBA. 
Soccer. the most popular sport in the world but not yet a great crowd-pleaser in the United States, hasn't managed to interest the networks. Hock­{'Y has similarly suffered. 
Network officials contend that hockey, like soccer, has only regional interest. 
"Hockey is the least depend­ent of all sports on network television," said Don Ruck, NIIL executive. "The NHL has the highest saturation of its seating capacity and box office support." 
The networks are at some variance on exactly what is sa­lable on the market. They all agree that the big event-the World Series, the Super Bowl, the Kentucky Derby, the Mas­ters golf tournament, Wimble­don tennis-will continue to Iure the sponsor dollar. Their ideas run different directions when they get down to the low­er echelon. 
Carl Lindemann, sports boss at NBC, for instance, is a strong believer in presenting events without frills. "The game is the thing," he insists. He also is a stout booster of live TV-his network does con­
$6000 collected for Third World at ND and SMC 
Nearly $6000 has been raised this semester for the hungry of the Third World through the dining hall collection drive of AI Sondej and Greg Gramelspacher. 
Sondej has collected $4700 at the Notre Dame dining halls and Gramelspacher has raised $1200 in daily collections at St. Mary's. 
Sondej and Gramelspacher end collections on both campuses today. They will participate this weekend in the National Univer­sity Conference on Hunger in Austin, Texas. Basil O'Leary, of the Program in Non-Violence, and junior Chris Brinegar will also represent Notre Dame at the conference. 
Collections .at, the djning h~Us will resume Monday, Dec. 1. 

siderably more than the other two. 
Bob Wussler, the young head of CBS sports, argues that sports programming must be diversified enough to appeal also to the women and the young people in the house. So he has spiced up his shows with aesthetic music numbers and pretty faces. 
Arledge, the ABC dynamo who introduced Monday Night Football and is making ges­tures toward trying to monopo­lize the business, has a scatter­shot philosophy. His "Wild World of Sports" jumps from a bus-leaping contest in Cincin­nati to an auto demolition der­by in Texas. But he's not so hot on tennis. 
"People play and talk about tennis," says Arledge, presi­dent of ABC Sports, "but most people would rather watch wrestling." 
The biggest of all single sports attractions is the Super Bowl-a one-day shootout for the NFL championship-al­though it can be topped, as this year. by an exciting seventh game of the World Series. 
There is a $3.5 million price tag on the Super Bowl, over and above the regular $60 mil­lion per year contract. Sponsors must pay $230,000 a minute of advertising, compared with $100,000 per minute which NBC could demand this year for the most exciting of all World Series. 
INTERVIEWERS NEEDED 
Westat, Inc. is in­terested in hiring in­terviewers for the St. Joseph CountyH\>USing Study. The job involves con­ducting personal in­terviews with households throughout
the county. 

The f"oi1owing
qualifications are 
required:

-Must be available a 
minimum of 25 hours 
per week including ~:e~~n~~:gs and -Must have access to a
cur while in­
terviewing;

-Must be available for 
a 4 month period
beginning the first of 
the year.

The pay is $3.50 per hour plus travel allowance.
If you are interested, cal Interviewer In­formation at 233-4102. westat, Inc. t843Commerce Drive ,tJutb:Q~Aifl 466J~­
PORTUNITY .. EM­.._.P•L•O•YioiEiiR______.• 
condition worsened last week. Services will be held at 10:30 
a.m. Friday at the Lafayette Baptist Church and at 2:30 p.m. Friday at the Franklin Baptist Church. Burial will be in the Greenlawn Cemetery in Frank­lin. 
Tributes began pouring in al­most immediately after Brani­gin 's death was announced by former press aide Jim Farmer. 
"Indiana mourns," Gov. Bow­en said. "With the passing of Roger Branigin, we have lost a great public official, an out­standing American, a dedicated Hoosier." 
"One capacity Roger has that is in great short supply today is the ability to make those tough decisions," Sen. Birch Bayh, D­Ind., said. "There was no equi­vocation about Roger Branigin, and we need that kind of lead­ership in government today." 
Branigin was known for his wit and sarcasm and highly popular to Hoosiers who saw him as his "own man." When once asked if he was for the common man, Branigin replied, "I'm a Hoosier, a Baptist and a Democrat, and by God, you can't get much more common than that." 
He often answered letters in his own handwriting and some­times answered the telephone in the governor's office, taking callers aback. 
An urbane attorney, he also was known for his liberal use of the governor's veto power­once vetoing in a single day more bills than his three prede­cessors combined. All of the vetoes were sustained, in­cluding a repeal of capital pun­ishment. ' 
Branigin's administration also achieved several major successes, including the state's first minimum wage law, re­peal of the right-to-work law, creation of a state scholarship program, equal opportunity in public education and housing, also saw the creation of a De­revision of the property tax partment of Motor Vehicle In­system that returned tax mon­spection and a new Department 
ey to the cities for taxpayers of Natural Resources. relief and the establishment of But it was Branigin's sense of a work-release program for humor that made him a hit prison inmates. with voters, politicians and 
Branigin's administration newspaper reporters alike. 

1 Groove Tube 7,9,11 
Woman Under the Influence, 8 ~()ilt~.-ti()use t=lix 
.REGAL· 
LOUNGE & LANES 
BAND THIS WEEKEND 


SQUEEZE 
TONIGHT IS 

STUDENT NIGHT 
BOWLING ONLY soc 
WITH ND-SMC I.D. 
OPEN BOWLING 
THIS SAT. & SUN. 
AFTER 8:30 P.M. 
1121 WEST 8th ST. 
-MISHAWAKA PHONE 

******************************+***** ***** **
*
.;
., 
~ 
.,
:
• 

ilt t 
-tc
.il 
:; -tc • • 
~ 
~ ~ 
t~ 
"?'
t 
t"?' ~ 
i' 
: 
t 
;t 
"?' 
t ~ 
+: 
~ 
t 
t ~ 

~ JUST FOR THE RECORD ROBERTSON'S SOUTH BEND * 
• g CONCORD MALL ST. JOSEPH BANK AND BRANCHES, ~ 
: FIRST BANK MAIN BRANCH ONLY, THE ELKHART TRUTH AND i ..i~.U-~f..~.~.9.~.9...S~~R-J~..-~~-~.~~.~·~.~-~~~,.THE~ ~ECORD JOI.~J ,IN ~~~.ES * 
••••••••••••+................................~··~.....,_~ 
SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS PRESENTS: 




AEROSMITH * ~ 
:
:
*
* 
t
* 
1 
: ~ 
* 
* 
* 
* 
Jf
* 
WITH SPECIAL GUESTS ; 

KANSAS ; ~ 
...­

AND ~ TED NUGENT AND :...­
* 

THE AMBOY DUKES i 
***************+*** ...-~ THU.RSDAv NO i*
I., VEMBER 20 1:30 P.M. 
NOTRE DAM



E ACC * 
: 

*,._ TICKETS $5.00 Bleachers ! 
...­
: 

ON SALE NOW AT: ACC BOX OFFICE, BOOGIE RECORDS, • 

~--­
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

*~d~~~rver 
Founded November 3, 1966 
EDITORIAL BOARD of Notre Dame and St. Muy's College. It does not necessarily Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported A I Rutherford Managing Editor as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent Jim Eder Executive Editor the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com­Pat Hanifin Ed itorial Editor mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, Ken Girouard News Editor cartoons and regular columns express the views of their Bob Mader Campus Editor authors. Column space is available to all members of the Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor community, and leHers are encouraged to promote the free Ken Bradford Copy Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. 
The Observer is published by the students of the University 

Val Zurblis Wire Editor Tom O'Neil Features Editor Editorials: 283·1715 News: 213-8661 Business: 283-7471 Bill Brink Sports Editor Chris Smith Photo Editor
Business Manager Tom Modglin Dan Sanchez Senior Night Editor

Advertising Manager Tom Whelan 

Thursday, November 20, 1975 





Understaffed 
The Business College is not over­due to the economy which will not likely crowded, it is understaffed. It will cost start booming in the next several years. money but the University is going to have Arts and Letters students are also con­to hire more professors to meet the cerned . and wish to pick up useful growing demand for business courses. business courses--a wish that is often 
The student-faculty ratio, 28.3 to 1, is defeated by understaffing. over three times as high as the second But long-term trend or not, the students most-crowded college, Engineering. here, now, are paying large sums of Student enrollment is fifty percent more money, now, for a quality education in than it was five years ago but faculty the field of their choice. The un­numbers have not kept pace. Several of derstaffing is threatening that quality the business professors admit that this and the threat is growing. has hurt the quality of the education A solution that definitely should not be being offered. Many business majors are tried is to drive students into other angry about being closed out of important majors outside the College. classes and claim their tuition is sub­Admittedly the University does not sidizing the low ratios in the other have unlimited funds. Admittedly it has colleges. other needs that should also be met. But 
Assistant Dean Raymond's for the sake of educational quality and in 
downplaying the crowding problem simple justice to business students it will 
because there are still enough chairs to have to hire new staff. Perhaps hiring 
sit in may have been facetious but it is more part-time faculty might be con­
certainly ridiculous. Hooefully this un­sidered as an option; perhaps as a 
concern is notrepresentativeof the rest of temporary measure business students 
the Administration. might be encouraged to take more non­
The increase in Business College business electives. 
enrollment is not just a passing fancy. Ways and means are serious questions 
The students of the seventies are but the basic need is clear and urgent-­
generally much more job-oriented than more teachers, not more chairs. 
those of a decade ago. This is primarily 
P.O. Box Q 
Dt>ar Editor: exhibition of strength and the conclusion that the female masculinity. As Nancy said in 
population at Notre Dame united to 
To accomodate the restrictions her letter, "women came here to stop the senior strippers when in on "sexism" suggested by Nancy be eaucated." This being the case, fact they united to cheer them on. Budd's letter on Nov. 12 against a we wouldn't have you exposed to Nancy's concern that she is here dancing drill team, it would be such exhibitions as that of football. to be educated goes unchallenged 
necessary to eliminate some of the \This of course is based on the by the male population at Notre 
major activities which take place assumption that her opinion holds Dame. The drill team is not 
on campus. for either sex in a comparative working on a draft basis. No one 
The conclusion that a dancing situation. l asked her to join..We've not even 
drill team would result in a show of Nancy's reference to the asking her to watch. 
"bazooms and legs" leads one to dis~pproval of. "sho~in~. the op­
conclude that football is a mere posmg team a little skm, leads to David B. Kirk 

~ 51lVfiK?_I-'11JU'/?£--r-NOIIIIC!?£ NEAR rr'P 1.001< KEADY. AMY! 7J.I& 


STILL·MJ ~IF C1JI'ITDIRS ON 111m' 6001>?.. I Cf)(JL/J {)0 PI/iCe Aile JIJ5T IT IN SILveR,
I 
PAUL ...' 


Offering of Letters 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii cecilia prinster 
The "Right to Food Resolution" now before Congress asserts that every person in every country has the right to a nutritionally adequate diet, and that this right be recognized as a cornerstone of 
U.S. policy. It is appropriate that in this bicentennial year we reinforce our belief in the equality of all people and renew our commitment to the inalienable rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. 
The "Right to Food Resolution" is not a bill. It does not have legal binding power. It is, rather, a commitment to a principle to which we and our government can later be held accountable. Just as the Declaration of Independence was and still is a commitment to liberty,. so, too, the "Right to Food Resolution" is, ultimately, a commitment to justice. Life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness were the fundamental principles of the constitution. Similarly, the right to food is a basic point of reference in legislative and ad­ministrative decisions regarding trade, developmental assistance, monetary reform, military spending and all other matters that bear on hunger. 
The right to food is a corollary of the inalienable right to life in 
that it specifies the most fundamental requirement of human 
existence and acknowledges the most basic of human needs. But 
the true dignity of human life lies far beyond the physical and in­
stinctive needs of food and shelter, which are but the existential 
conditions of life on earth. The denial of these basic animal needs 
is, then, the most dehumanizing insult to humanity, and the 
presence of hunger in our world insults the humanity of not only 
th llSe who are denied food, but also of those who deny it. 
Hunger is caused by a host of injustices The lack of food con­
tri~utes to the ph~sic~l and m_ental degradation of the hungry, 
while the lack of JUstice contnbutes to the spiritual and moral 
decay of the satiate. We, the rich, the powerful and the educated 
are the arbiters of justice for those who have not, and our humanity 
depends on the extent to which we exten<' our wealth, our power and 
our knowledge to others not so fortunate l:t, ourselves. 
Equality is a fact of existence: God gave all people the same 
potential for good and evil and the same freedom of will. Justice 
however, is a virtue of righteous humanity, whereby we not only 
acknowledge the root equality of all people, but actively strive for 
the common good by fostering and preserving the inalienable 
human rights. 

~ust as the dignity of human life lies beyond the mere facts of 1 
existence, s?, too, the worth of a society lies not in its power and 
wealth, but m the use of them. Having acquired liberty two hun­
dred years ago, we were responsible for the creative use of that 
liberty; and having since acquired power and wealth we are now 
responsible for the just and humane application of th~t power and 
wealth. We are now in the position to grant a kind of liberty to 
others: through our financial and technological aid, we can help 
underd~veloped c?untrie~ to free. themselves from the debilitating 
oppressiOn of their physiCal environment and animal needs. we 
can help them to become free to develop their minds and hearts. 
As members of a society, we, as individuals, are at fault in allowing injustice to be perpetuated in our government and its policies. If we judge that it is just for our society to hoard resources -food, technology, raw materials -to the detriment of others, we, too, will someday be judged by that standard. 
The injustice and intolerance of the world around us are demanding that we respond, but the first and primary response must come from each of us and must be seen in each of our lives. The Offering of Letters sponsored by the Nr World Hunger Coalition is one response to injustice in our world. It is a political action in support of a humane principle. At this time of thanksgiving, let us commit ourselves to sharing our blessings. Write to your congressman and senator inWashington. Urge them to pass the "Right to Food Resolution." 

Thursday, November 20, 1975 the observer 

records 
art garfunkel and dave mason return 

tbreakaway' 
sound like they were meant to record
Art Garfunkel has a new album out on 
together, their voices complement each
Columbia entitled "Breakaway." The disc 
other so perfectly. A light tune, it features
was produced by Richard <Ringo, Carly 
good piano work by Barry Beckett. .T~is is
Simon) Perry, with Garfunkel as associate 
one of the selections currently receivmg a
producer. Background artists on the 
lot of air play.

album are first class all the way, with such 
notables as Crosby and Nash, Nicky Hopkins, Lon Van Eaton, and Toni Tennile lending their assistance. 
Side one opens with "I Believe <When I f<'all In Love It Will Be Forever)", a song written by Stevie Wonder and Yvonne Wright, and made semi-popular by Peter Frampton. The song blends strong guitar work by Andrew Gold, some pretty piano playing by Larry Knechtel, and good vocals by Garfunkel. It's a good opening song because it more or less sets the pace for the rest of the album.
. 

Song number two, "Rag Doll", is an inoffensive pop tune without much bite. l>l•nny Seiwell is featured on drums and 

saves the song from getting lost in the Next is "I Only Have Eyes For You", the erowd. Garfunkel himself doesn't even single first selected for airplay, and it's a 
seem too excited about singing this one. 
struggle to try and understand why. It's not really as strong as the rest of the 
"Breakaway", the title tune is next, a album. Still, Garfunkel's voice carries the well arranged piece, making good use of song, along with good guitar work and Garfunkel's unique voice. It's just a level background vocals. above the usual middle of the road AM "Looking For The Right One", the next radio debris, but that one level is all this cut. is the low point of side two. Gar­song needs to retain some amount of funkel's voice is shakey, and the lyrics respectability. Background vocals by sound too forced for the music. There is a <'rosby and Nash, Bruce Johnston, and nice little musical break near the end of Toni Tennile are a definite plus on this the song, but it seems almost wasted on a selection. Drimming by Jim Keltner, and song of this caliber. bass by Klaus Voorman don't detract from The next number is "99 Miles From the song, either. L.A.", another little known tune from the 
The next cut is a number entitled summer of '75 that saves side two from "Disney Girls", written by former Beach total mediocrity. Written by Hal David Boy Bruce Johnston, and featured on their and Albert Hammond, it's a great song to "Surf's Up" LP. This song sneaks in as the sing while rambling down some interstate, best on the album. Garfunkel 's voice is thinking about that lady you've just left strong and clear. and musically it's a gem. behind. The lyrics are perhaps the best on the album. with the music handled more than amply by Louie Shelton, Denny
Listening to it you get the feeling it was Seiwell. et al. l'Ustom written for Garfunkel. You could Art Garfunkel has come up with a verycall this one a nostalgic song, with its 
good album. He seems to have a throwbacks to the past via "hometown preference for relatively unknown artists,
girls. bingo chances,", and falling in love as evidenced by the inclusion of "I and announcing it to the folks at the break­
Believe ... ", and "99 Miles ... " on this fast table. The background vocals add a album. and "Second Avenue" (written bygood deal to the all around superiority of Tim Moore> on his last album. He also has 
this opus. the knack· of recruiting excellent background artists and using them to his full advantage. His unique voice adds a 
"Waters of March" is a song that ap­new dimension to any song, and when he 
proaches the "novelty" classification, but was still recording with Simon, more often never quite reaches it. Written by an than not, it was Garfunkel's vocals that unknown <Antonio Carlos Jobim), the song carried the songs. . is a repititious uttering of a variety of This album contains a few songs that 
things like brooks and stars, and in the end could give Art some long deserved everything turns out to be the Waters of national star status, via airplay. It's March. The song's fun to listen to and mellow music, music that everybody actually isn't a bad choice to close the side enjoys now and then. Garfunkel has 
with. proven with the release of "Breakaway" that he is a contemporary performer and a good one at that. We haven't heard the end 
"My Little Town", opens side two. This of Art Garfunkel, in fact I'm inclined toeut was recorded with Paul Simon, and believe it's only the beginning.
also appears on his new album. It was written by Somon, and is a "throwback to 
Album compliments of Boogie Records.
togetherness." Simon and Garfunkel 
II

Jim coyne 

tsplit coconut' 
Dave Mason is back. Back and better This is the best song on the album for my than ever. "Split Coconut" is the title of money. It has neither great lyrics or great Mason's latest on Columbia. Produced by music, but the music and lyrics work hand Mason and Bruce Botnick, this album in hand to produce a song that just gets features Dave at his best. I became a inside of you. After one or two listenings, Dave Mason fan with the release of "It's this is the one you'll be singing, humming Like You Never Left", and this tops that or whistling. Watch for this one to be and everything in between. Mason has selected for airplay. assembled a great band, and in addition has The Manhattan Transfer, and Crosby and Nash helping out. 
Next up is "Sweet Music". It's an ap­propriate title, for the music is very good. Another typical Mason tune, <and thatSide one starts off with the title cut, usually means another good song) this iswhich is mostly instrumental, except for no exception.
the crooning of "spliiit coconut'' at not so regular intervals. There's a lot of reggae­The Manhattan Transfer again lendisland type music here. The use of \'ocal support on the closing song, "Longkeyboards and clavinet <by Mark Jordan) Lost Friend". This , along with goodreally add a lot to the music. No normal guitar solos by Mason help make this song person could sit still during this song. 
\'ery easy to listen to. Lyrically. it's one ofThat's how it affects you. Closing your the best on the album .. One exceptionallyeyes. you can see the palm trees, and good line is: " ... sunshine follows rain­waves crashing on the beach. 
drops. rainbowsfollowjue, I keep following this heart of mine, my heart keeps following you."
Next is "Crying, Waiting, and Hoping", which continues in the island style. Mason does a great re-make of this tune, which was written by the late great Buddy Holly. 
"Split Coconut" is one of the best albums Vocal Harmonies by The Manhattan to eome out this year. Dave Mason is at hisTransfer are a definite plus. This song has very best. and The Manhattan Transfer.
some great lines, reminiscent of the '50's, and Crosby and Nash give 100 per cent tolike: " ... maybe someday soon things will the effort. As mentioned before the Dave
change and you'll by mine." 1 
"You Can Lose It" is a typical Mason song. There is :some great guitar work by Mason, and his voice is strong and clear. His lyrics here are better than average, with one really good line: "She tells you she loves you, and calls you her man, but you're only just a small part of the plan." Crosby and Nash do the vocal chorus, and do it well. 
The next selection, "She's a Friend", again features Crosby and Nash, and Mark Jordan on excellent keyboards. Mason shines on this number a good rock tune. 

Mason Band is a great one, and put a lot into their music, thereby producing a"Save Your Love", is close to a disco nearly flawless sound. So Dave Mason issound, with wailing guitars by Mason and back. And if you like him this album iskeyboards and ARP by Jordan. It's bound to please you. If you don't like him definitely the most unique sounding song you probably still won't, because withon the album. Mason sounds like he's Mason it' either a love or hate affair.
really enjoying himself here. 
Mason's versitility is very evident on thisSide two opens with "Give Me A album as is his style of variety in types of Reason", which sounds like it belongs on songs. Dave Mason might never become aDave's "It's Like You Never Left" LP. 
giant in the recording business, but maybeThe guitar is again the magic wand of the that's better. His fans know he's one of the song. It sounds like a message type song, best, and maybe that's all that reallywith lyrics like: " ... laying foundations for matters. Dave, in his song "Sweetnew generations, think of the good things Music", pleads that we've "got to haveyou'll see." Mason seems to be saying we sweet Music". With this album, we mostshould live life for what it's worth while we certainly do.
prepare for the future. 
Album courtesy of Mac's Record Rack. 
"Two Guitar Lovers", takes us back to the islands, and also takes us to a star. 
• 

mOVIes 
katie and the duke---an american dream . ,A d 
Do you remember True Grit? It was the film a few years ago that won John Wayne an Oscar for his portrayal of Rooster Cogburn-the degenerate U.S. marshal with the "heart of gold". Rooster and the Duke are back in Rooster Cogburn ( ...and tht> lady>. This time, Rooster matches wits not only with the "bad guys" but also with Katherine Hepburn as Miss Eula Goodnight, the sharp-shooting lady with a Biblical quote for any occasion. 
The storyline has.a typic~l Western plo~. Rooster is forced mto retirement by his friend, the Judge, for shooting too many suspects. He is given a chance to get his badge back when the Judge needs someone for an impossible assignment-the capture of Hawk and his murderous gang for the theft of a wago~ful of nitroglycerine. Rooster must fmd th~m before they use the nitro t~ steal a sh1p­ment of gold and he must bn~g _them ba~k alive in order to hold onto his JOb. While tracking them, he comes across a ruined settlement. The night before, the Hawk's gang had gotten the settlement's Indians drunk, killed the local church's minister and set fire to some teepees. It is here t~at Rooster meets the schoolmarm Miss Goodnight, the daughter of the old mini­ster. He tries to take her and another survivor, the Indian boy Wolf to safety but in a typical Katy Hepburn move, they end up riding along with Rooster on the gang's trail.. . . . 
It IS here that the simllanty to the typical old-fashioned Western ends. There are some "shoot~m-up" scenes betw~n the outlaws and the three, but the mam actwn is the banter between the two vetera~s, Wayn~ a~d Hep.b~rn. For the nostalgia fans, It IS ren:umscent of the verbal battles between M1ss H~pburn and the. late Spenc~r Tracy. Yet, It b~omes te~10us. Miss Hepburn hasn t the qu1ckness of her retorts as she once had and the Duke's drawl has become even longer. As a result, the lines drag and have the stilted effect of monotonous memorization. Director Stuart Millar has placed so much emphasis on the two's charisma and wit, that you could begin to have more sympathy for the outlaws. 
Wayne and Hepburn are excellent in their confrontations with the gang. They have some clever ambushes and do a little tricky shooting with a gatlin gun. At one point, Rooster, Miss Goodnight and Wolf surround the gang and scare them away from the wagon of nitro long enough for the three of them to drive away with it. They accomplish this by shooting as fast as they can into the air and calling to each other as if it were a large posse. In another scene, when they are floating down the river with the nitro on a raft, they manage to keep the gang, who are on the high banks, from shooting them by raking the cliffs with the gatlin. 
m1ssy near 

The good guys win, of course, and Rooster gets to keep his badge, in spite of the fact that he's killed the suspects again. Miss Goodnight with her wit has come to his defense before the Judge and with her 
"Biblical knowledge has convinced him that Rooster is just another Joshua . They both ride off into the sunset by different ways­Katy with tears in her eyes and Duke the realization that Miss Goodnight has had the last word again. 
Rooster was particularly disappointing for this Wayne-Hepburn fan. It had such possibilities . They were destroyed by the stereotypical characters, the unimaginative dialogue and the lack of action that might have salvaged the film as a good-old-fashioned-popcorn~ating Western. Maybe, the biggest disap­pointment was the fact that these two stars of old Hollywood had grown old like everybody else. 

the observer Thursday, November 20, 1975 




ND Archives provide scholars with treasure 
by Phil Cackley Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame Archives is a scholar's treasure grove con­
taining  one  of  the  nation's  best  
collections  of  records  and  
documents  on  the  history  of  

:\merican Catholicism and is the repository for all historically valuable documents pertaining to Notre Dame. 
The Archives are located on the sixth floor of the Memorial Library and. according to Fr. Thomas Blantz, University Archivist, can be distinguished from a library generally in that libraries deal with published materials, while archives usually contain un­published materials. 
The unpublished materials in the Notre Dame Archives include letters. reports, minutes of meetings, photographs and other records. documents and personal papers. Many published materials relating specifically to Notre Dame are housed in the Notre Dame Collection. located in the Department of Rare Books and Special Collections on the first floor of the Library. 
Blantz said {he Archives contain both rna terials directly or in­directly pertaining to Notre Dame and papers deserving preser­\·ation. because of a general historical value. 
Included'. in this latter category are many documents dealing with the his tory of American Catholicism. There are collections of papers and records, particularly from the 19th century, from the dioceses of New Orleans, Vin­cennes. Cincinatti and others. 
These collections comprise close to two-thirds of all the materials in the Archives, Blantz said, and are 
Need assessment will highlight 
a significant depository for in­formation on American Catholicism. "Some say we have the best or perhaps the second best collection in the nation," Blantz stated. 
Notre Dame acquired much of this material through the efforts of Prof. James Edwards, who came to the University in the 1870's. He spent a lot of time travelling to the bishops of various dioceses, convincing them to preserve their personal papers and the diocesan records. 
In cases where bishops could not preserve these documents themselves, Edwards suggested that the papers be donated to Notre Dame. For a time the Archives were even called the Catholic Archives of America. 
In addition to these collections, there are papers of persons in­directly connected with Notre Dame, such as General William Tecumseh Sherman and Orestes Brownson, a 19th century author and philosopher for whom Brownson Hall is named. 
Most of the materials in the Archives, especially the older material, are unique, Blantz ex­plained. There exists only one copy of a letter from General Sherman to President Lincoln, or from Orestes Brownson to Fr. Sorin, for instance. 

ARMANDO, FORMERLY OF 
I NOW!

ROCCO'S BARBER SHOP. IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUS TO GIVE 
7:10 9:10PM

YO{J THE CUT OR STYLE THAT YOU WANT 
The Archives receive a good deal of 
use from people on campus, Blantz said. 
The Archives receive a good deal of use from people on campus, Blantz said. Students use the historical records while writing papers on Notre Dame history for 
courses. 

Additionally, there is use by persons wishing to utilize the files of campus publications such as the Obst>rver and the Scholastic, which 
are  kept at  the Archives for  in­ 
formational purposes.  
Blantz  said  the  majority  of  

researchers using the Archives are local people, or from on campus. 
Other significant collections in the Archives include the papers of Paul Butler, the National Democratic Chairman at the time Adlai Stevenson ran for president; Frank Walker, post-master general under Franklin Roosevelt; and Cardinal O'Hara of Philadelphia, who was a Notre Dame president. Both Butler and Walker were Notre Dame graduates. 
aids are prepared. There are three types of aids: 1) a folder listing which gives general description of the material in a storage folder; 2) an item listing which lists each 
document or letter, the date of it, and who the letter is to and from; and 3) a calender listing which gives a summary of each document and a Jist of all the proper names mentioneed in the document. 
These finding aids help "the researcher to more conveniently find what he wants," Blantz 
commented.  This  can  be  
especially  important  with  a  
collection  such  as  the  Sherman  

papers, which has about 10,000 separate papers in it, stored in ninety boxes, he said. 
With some of the more frequently used collections, the entire collection has been microfilmed to make •it more available to researchers. Both the 
Sherman and Brownson collections have been microfilmed, in addition to the New Orleans Diocese collection. 
CHOICE programt.------------~ 


"Needs Assessment for the 
South Bend School System" will be 
the topic of the Project CHOICE 
workshop, focusing on sex 
discrimination in schools, at Saint 
Mary's College on Saturday, 
November 22. 
Dr. Robert Terry, a human 
relations counselor from Detroit, 
will meet with teachers and 
representatives from the South 
Bend Community School Cor­
poration in a closed session to 
discuss ways for effectively 
evaluating the South Bend school 
system, 
"This is a significant workshop," 
said Nora Hoover, visiting lecturer 
in education at Saint Mary's, and 
administrator of the HEW grant 
which funds Project CHOICE. 
"At this meeting we will for­
mulate the structure of self­
evaluation," she added, "and this 
is one of Project CHOICE's 
primary tasks." 
Dr. Terry is a partner in Neely, 
Campbell, Gibb, Terry & 
Associates, a consulting firm 
focusing on human relations 
training, affirmative action, 
racism, sexism, and 
organizational development and 
.change. 
THE 

RESUME PLACE 
25 8 1/2 X 11 
RAG BOND 
Only $2.55 

insty-prints 

203 N. MAIN 
SO.BEND, IND 
289-6977 
•1 I I I • • II • I. I ~ 4 • ~ • J 
t ( --..-:---____,.~ 

Because of this all the materials receive special care and handling by the Archives staff. I particular, if a person is researching a topic and wants a certain document a staff member will get the document from the storage room. 
To help scholars locate specific papers within the Archives, finding 




THE ULTIMATE EXPERIENCE
c;if7.mando'j_ !Ba7..bt:.7. & d-/ai7.. ~tyfe. ~floj.2 
OPEN SIX DAYS A WEEK 
D 

MONDAY THRU FRIDAY 8 TO 5,30 · SATURDAY 8 TO 4 
PERSONALIZED SERVICE 
ARMANDO FEMIA 1437 N. IRONWOOD DR. 
-G­
-~--~ -----­

Thursday, November 20, 1975
Reps from 63 colleges 


ND to host alcohol education conference 
by Dave Gill Staff Reporter 

Students, faculty members and administrators from 63 major universities in the United States and Puerto Rico will be meeting this weekend on the Notre Dame campus to discuss programs on alcohol education and the prevention of the use of alcohol. 
The seminal, entitled "University 50+ 12: A Fresh Look at the Old Sauce", is being co­sponsored by the National Institute on Alcolhol Abuse and Alcoholism and the Notre Dame Student Government. 
The clinic will begin on f<'riday evening with the welcoming ad­dress given by Brother Just Paczensy, Vice-President for Student Affairs at Notre Dame and will end Sunday afternoon with regional workshops. .The contingent from each school consists of one liason member and one student representative. The etudents will be housed in campus dormitories. The Ombudsman Service is including in the registration packets places of interest to visit during the weekend to give the dcommittee members a student's eye view of life at Notre Dame. 
During the seminar, there will be several films and ~iscussions open to student viewing and par­ticipation. On Friday night, from 1\:00 p.m. to 9:30p.m. there will be several films in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. Saturday morning, from 9:00 a.m. to 10:30 a.m., a panel discussion by students will be given in the auditorium of the CCE. Students Body President Ed Byrne will be the moderator of the group and Notre Dame's student representative, Diana Merten, will be on the panel. 
Saturday afternoon, form 2:00 
p.m. to 5:00 p.m., a apnel of university representatives from across the nation will discuss their individual programs and ideas on education and prevention in the use of alcohol. 
Saturday night, Drs. Richard and Shirley Jessor, from hte In­sititute of Behavioral Science, University of Colorado, will give a 
Turbotrain derails injuring 39 
ELWOOD, Ill. <AP) -Thir­ty-nine persons were injured Wednesday in the first derail­
ment  of  one  of  Amtrak's  sleek  
high-speed  turbotrains.  
The train collided with  a  truck  

while enroute from Chicago to St. Louis. It carried 111 per­sons, about half of whom were part of a contingent headed for the state capital on behalf of Mayor Hichard J. Daley. The mayor's sister-in-law, Cecilia (;reen, 65, was among those 
treated for injuries. 
Seven of the injured were ad­mitted to hospitals and three suffered injuries described as serious. 
The train was one of only five of Amtrak's new $2.7 million turbo units in operation nation­wide. Damage was estimated at close to $1 million, said .James Taylor, Amtrak's re­gional vice president. 
The Chicago-St. Louis turbo run was one of the first of its 
kind put into operation two years ago. Turbo trains can reach speeds up to 120 miles per hour but run slower be­cause of track conditions, an Amtrak spokesman said. 
The train, which left Chicago at II: 10 a.m., was traveling at about 73 miles per hour when it collided with a truck. 
The truck driver was identi­fied by hospital officials as Carl Steandmeyer, 48, of Joliet, who was treated for minor injuries and released. 
Elwood is about 45 miles southwest of Chicago. Steandmeyer said trees and other growth obstructed his view of the crossing and he saw the train only at the last mo­ment. He swerved and attempted to turn the vehicle parallel to the tracks. "I'm thankful to be alive," he told reporters. Amtrak officials said the truck ran into the side of the second car in the train in which most members of the Daley contigent were traveling. Four cars derailed and tottered on the brink of turning over. "There was a ter~ibl,e moment or two when we d1dn t 
pen," said Fran Sullivan, a cago City Council. Democratic committeewoman She was part of the contin­from Oak Park. "We didn't gent headed by Jayne Byrne, know if something else was go­Daley's consumer affairs direc­ing to hit or the train was going tor, on their way to Springfield to tip over." to lobby for more state aid to 
"Im still shakey," said S. J. public schools. Groves, a conductor. "Every­Mrs. :Byrne telephoned Daley thing was so mixed up." shortly after the accident to 
"On impact, there was glass say she was not hurt. Seven all over," said Marilou Hed­women from her party, in­lund, a member of the Demo­cluding Daley's sister-in-law, cratic National Committee and suffered slight injuries, she a former member of the Chi-said. 
Phone books finally here 
Off-campus students may pick up their phone directories today and Friday in the LaFortune ballroom, according to Paul Heynolds of the Student Union Services Commission. Phone hooks may also be picked up next Monday and Tuesday at the same location. 
The directories should be picked up during the following hours: today from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m.; Friday from 1p.m. until 2:15p.m.; Monday from noon to 1 p.m. and Tuesday from 11:30 p.m. until 2 p.m. 
The pick-up procedure has changed from last year, according to Reynolds. This year Student Union sent a letter to each house advising the residents that the books were now available. This 
CONCORD, N.H. (AP) Sen. Birch Bayh, D-Ind., was scheduled to be in Concord to­day, meeting with state Demo­cratic leaders as part of an ef­fort to "catch up with" other presidential candidates entering New Hampshire's February 
primary. Bayh also is scheduled to be in Franklin, Berlin, Laconia, Dover, and Portsmouth during a three-day sweep of the state. 
In a Manchester news confer­ence Wednesday, Bayh said he expects to make a "credible 
showing" in the New Hamphire presidential primary, the first in the nation. Bayh said the 
letter must be presented in order for the students to receive their directories. 
Students from the Campus View and Turtle Creek apartments will be required to present their Notre 
Dame LD. when receiving their books. 
Reynolds explained the reasons behind the new policy. "Last year too many people not associated with the University got phone books,"hesaid. "Thisallowedtoo 
many people to know where off-campus students live, possibly 
6244. 

Bayh begins campaign 
know what was going to hap­
: COME WATCH : : NOTRE DAME BEAT MIAMI : 

on 




THE LIBRARY 
• 
BIG SCREEN GAME STARTS AT 1:00 P.M. 
PRE-GAME WARM-UP: 11-1 BLOODY MARY'S & SCREWDRIVERS 2 FOR THE PRICE OF 1!! 
• • ..·.. • ... . • • .,.. ' • ' , •. ~ • -•• ~ ~ ~ ~ s ; ; ' ' ~ t' •. ~ • 1 ~ , .. ... , ••• '
-t .... f 
···········~·~~~~··· 
same thing the day after for­mally announcing his candida­
cy  Oct.  21.  
However,  he  conceded  
Wednesday  he  has  to  "catch  

up" with other candidates to 
f~;.i.~ve that "credible show-
Bayh was not specific about 
what he meant and the head of his New Hampshire campaign, 
state Rep. Chris Spirou, de­clined to define a "credible showing."
"It's too early, premature, and unfair at this stage to com­ment on a percentage of the vote or a number of votes," Spirou said. 
program entitled "Alcohol and Youth: A Development Per­spective." 
Mary McCabe, Liason for Notre Dame, remarked, "The entire ;eminar will deal iwth educaiton and prevention, not any prohibitive flleasures for alcohol. The theme 1f reponsible use of alcohol on college campuses is the main diea for the conference." 
Kathleen Moncrief, a member of the Natinal Clearing House for A.lcohol Information added, "The program is for everyone and everv 
Of all liquors 
011e is welcome to attend. The consensus opinion obtained from te seminar will be used to finalize ideas for a manual which will give ideas for programs, speakers and films on the subject of alcohol education. 
The manual, which is in draft form now, will come out in the spring for distribution to college campuses." 
Information concerning the activities can -be obtained from Merten at 1\121 or McCabe at 6145. 

U.S. gets ingredients 
WASHINGTON <AP> Americans are going to be told for the first time which chem­icals are added to their beer, wine and liquor. 
The Food and Drug Adminis­tration told Congress on Wednesday that ingredient la­beling of all domestic and im­ported alcoholic beverages will be mandatory Jan. 1, 1977. 
"While we recognize that the issue of ingredient labe.ling of alcoholic products is a very complex matter," FDA associ­ate commissioner Sam D. Fine said, "we do believe that it is in the best interest of the con­sumer to have these foods la­beled as informatively as pos­sible and we are in favor of having their ingredients de­clared on the label." 
Michael F. Jacobson, head of the nonprofit Center for Science in the Public Interest, which raised the labeling issue three 
years ago, told a House sub­
committee that some in­gredients in alcoholic bever­ages cause allergic reactions in 
some people, and some have proven fatal. 
"In the mid 1960s, several brewers in the U.S. and abroad began adding cobalt sulfate to their beers to maintain a nice foamy head," he told the House Government Operations con­
"Unfortunately, cobalt had never been tested in the pres­
ence oi alcohol -a com­bination that proved to be dead­ly to at least 50 beer drinkers," Jacobson said. 
The chemicals prevent or promote foaming, kill bacteria, preserve flavor, prevent dis­coloration and, with the addi­tion of caramel coloring, can make a thin beer look thick and rich, he said. 
Jacobson predicted that the labeling would add one cent to the price of six-packs of beer and about one cent to the price of a bottle of wine. 
Bureau of Alcohol Director Rex D. Davis said Jacobson's request had the backing of the brewing industry but was vigor­ously opposed by liquor and wine makers. 
~ 
THE'~* ~"-c"aQS1'2~A_DINr-~CO. 
~~''" ~"'~ " 
The Outpost invite you to a free Cross 
C0 U ntry SKIING Clinic : Movie and Discussion on the 
sport. Thursday November 20 7 :3O 

making them vulnerable to van-111 11111e1ri!!!su•bl!c!lol!ml!m•itl!tel!l!e~.~-!;!!1!!1!!•••••111!~1!!!!1:~!!!!!!!!!1~ 
dalism or robberies." s11 
For any further information 
um 0reI.rrn ar •0. 
students should contact Reynolds &cAr F fit 
at 21\3-8702 or call the Student \ f d 
Union services commission at 283-:4 Parts & accessories or importe can. 
.::: for all makes at lowest prices.
11 1 
~Hstr,butor 
************************* 
:For ND Students, Fac.ulty & Staff :*10 percent discount with ID & * !,pur·chase of $10 or more. ! 
************************• 
r··~··-:~·..-;~-:~-::-~~~~---==;;;;w
S _T _R _£ _T _C _H 
Your budget & shop at any area 


~~nwzLL ~J.J 
STORE 
NEW ANDj USED FURNIT UR~E TOYS 
CLOTHING FOR EVERYONE BOOKS JEANS GLASSWARE 
MISC. HARD WARE, ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES 
-COUPON­25% OFF ON ALL WINTER COATS 
(EXPIRES DEC. 3rd) 
SUPER STORE 1805 WESTERN 282-1030 
SOUTH BEND 702 S. MICH. 282~ 1215 
NILES 2 20 N. FRONT 683-8322 
MISHAWAKA 315 N. MAIN 255-02<46 

ONE TWE OFFER 
'NEW' MODERN STYLE LOUNGE CHAIR 
ONLY $8950 
WHILE THEY LA$1 
SHOP YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD GOODWILL STOR~ 11.#4 D BENEFIT FROM .OUR LOW PRICES ON CHOICE CLOTH lNG ITE AN 0 110'S OF OTHER 
ITEMS TO 1'1 ELP YOU STRETCH YOUR BUDGE 
. ' . 

10 the observer Thursday, November 20, 1975 
Ford moving towards NYC help 
WASHINGTON <AP) -Pres­ident Ford moved one step closer Wednesday toward rec­ommending federal help for New York City but said the city and state must first deliver on their own promises. 
"If they continue to make progress, I will review the situ­ation early next week to see if any legislation is appropriate at the federal level," Ford said in his latest statement on New York's financial crisis. 
Ford said he would veto a bill in the House that would provide 



Dictator perishes 
Europe. The terrorists were shot under a tough new law that required personal approval of the sentences by Franco. 
But Franco appeared to weather the storm of inter­national protest and denounced the rest of Europe for a "leftist conspiracy" against his govern­ment. 
When World War II broke out, Franco repaid his German· and Italian backers with staunch verbal support and with one division which suf­fered heavy casualties on the Russian front. 
Franco's anti-Communist views began to pay dividends after the war as Western Eu­rope and the United States banded together to fight inter­national Communism. 
Cinemai1IJ 
Friday & Saturday 8-10 November 21 & 22 ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM ADMISSION $1 
loan guarantees for the city. House leaders promptly sus­pended action on the bill, say­ing it was futile to proceed in the face of Ford's veto threat. 
The New York Assembly was meeting Wednesday to consider some parts of the state's finan­cial plan, including tax in· creases. 
Time for averting default through federal help may be running out, however. New York City could default on its debts as early as next week, without help, while Congress is 

plans semi-forma for December 5th 
"disappointed that we couldn't get an answer from the Presi­dent." He said there is no al­ternative to getting quick feder­al approval of the self-help pro­gram to restore the city and state to financial soundness. 
A Ford administration source said that as a condition for fed­eral help, Ford first wants the New York Assembly to act on a proposed $200 million increase in city taxes. 
Once that is done, the source said, Ford may consider a plan to help the city obtain cash over a three-year period, pre­sumably through loan guaran­tees. 
In his statement, Ford said, "I am convinced that if New York continues to move toward fiscal responsibility, all parties concerned can look forward to a satisfactory resolution, de­spite the current obstacles." 
On the other hand, he said, "should New York leaders fail to implement their intentions, New York City could still be forced into legal default." 
*1\HE~* ~~\)QS'T TRADINt; ~C 
()~ ~ 0. 
The Outpost invite you to a free Cross Country SKIING Clinic : Movie and Discussion on the sport. Thursday 
November 20 

scheduled to adjourn this week for the Thanksgiving recess. 
Gov. Hugh Carey of New York said he was "disappointed ... but not dejected" at Ford's statement. He said he has al­ready pledged to meet the con­ditions for federal help, adding that Ford "knows my pledges are good." 
Carey, who had been in Washington to confer with con­gressional leaders, returned to Albany after Ford's statement. 
New York Mayor Abraham 
D. Beame also said he was 

8 mi. N. of State Line Take 31 1u Niles, then North on 51, 3 miles 683-9842 
~**********•******************* 
: WANT TO GET AWAY? : 
* * 
:NOW THRU JANUARY 1, PAY ONLY: : SINGLE RATE ON ANY DOUBLE : : OCCUPANCY ROOM WHEN YOU : : Howard MENTION THIS AD.# t Johnson's 52939 U.S. 31 NORTH! 
:**************c~~~*~~~~~**; 
WATCH NO-MIAMI GAME ON OUR NEW WIDE-SCREEN TV 

• I. 

il -~ I' ~ -...._, ; j 
.... .. ' ... ~ •. ·, ... ~ .. ._ "'· ' ' ... 
. , ' ........................·..... ~ ~ 

I 
Thursday, November 20, 1975 the observer 11
On assassinations 1 




Colby moves to block committee report 
WASHINGTON <APl -The McClellan, chairman of the in­ated Press, concludes that had "acted judiciously and who are in CIA. Americans who White House and CIA mounted telligence appropriations sub­"there are at least nine names properly" in deciding to make collaberated with CIA, and an eleventh-hour effort to block committee. Stennis heads the that we understand are in the public the "names of those who some are foreigners." or delay Thursday's scheduled CIA oversight committee. report where it is believed a were inseparably involved in He said he agrees with critics release of the Senate In­At the same time, White real· possibility of physical decisions which involved our who have said the CIA had no 
telligence Committee's report on assassinations. 
CIA Director William E. Col­by wrote a letter to Senate Armed Services Chairman John Stennis, asking him to persuade the Senate to reject all sections of the report except the recom­mendations, or at least strike a11 names mentioned in the re­port, a Senate source said Wednesday. 
An administration source who confirmed the Colby letter to Stennis said a similar message had been sent to Sen. John House aides circulated among Republican senators a 2112-page briefing paper drafted by Mit­chell Rogovin, Colby's special legal representative. Rogovin argued that revelation of the names in the report "will place those persons and their families in danger, will have long-range effects on United States in­telligence activities, and ap­pears to violate the fundamen­tal due process of those individ­uals." 
The document, a copy of which was given to The Associ­harm exists if the names are divulged." The briefing paper also asks that each of those in­dividuals "have the opportunity to acquaint himself with the text of the report and to offer such evidence as is available to justify deletion of his name. 
The last-minute lobbying campaign came as Colby held a rare press conference at CIA headquartersal, calling it "an eleventh-hour attempt to inter­fere with publication of the re­port." 
Church said the committee 
FBI admits to King harrassment 
WASHINGTON <APl -A top FBI official testified Wednes­day there was no legal justifi­cation for the 25 separate at­tempts by the bureau in the 1960s to discredit the late Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. as a civil rights leader. 
James B. Adams, associate deputy FBI director, told the Senate Intelligence Committee there is "no statutory basis or justification" for the attempts which included sending King !ind his wife an anonymous let­ter which King took as a sug­gestion he commit suicide. 
Adams said, however, he be­lieves the FBI was justified in investigating King because of the possibility that Communist influences were being brought to bear on him and on the civil rights movement. 
He said he can find no basis for King's conclusion that the FBI -prepared letter and the tape recording that accom­panied it suggested King kill himself. But he acknowledged under questioning that inter­pretation is "a possibility." 
"I certainly would say it was improper and I can't justify its being prepared or sent," Adams said. 
The letter read in part: "Kin&. there is only one thing left for you to do. You know what it is ... You are done. 
There  is  but  one way  out  for  
you."  
In  addition  to  the  letter,  the  

committee on Tuesday made public evidence that the FBI in­stalled a total of 16 electronic bugs and eight wiretaps on King and promoted a candidate 
WANTED 

Need ride to Youngstown-Pitt area, Mon. Nov. 24. Share driving and expenses. Jack, 3597. 
Need RIDERS to Mpls. or Min­nesota for Thanksgiving break. Leaving Fri. Nov. 21st. Call "Bern", 289-9174. 
NPed ride to DC or Delaware area on Friday, Nov. 21. Call Tom. 1380. 
Girl needed for role In Independent student production of Neil Simon's "Star-Spangled Girl." For more Information. can Jpff, 1852, or Lou, 2187. 
Flyers Fans, Need ride to Philly either Fri. night, Nov. 21 or morning, Nov. 22.' Call 1474. 
Wanted: 2 reservations can­cellations for United flights 11-26, 
12:55 or 4:30 Phil. via Cleveland. Call 1103. 
I need a ride to the Cincinnati Dayton area Tues., the 25th. Call Ann 8803. 
Need ride to NY (Long Island) or vicinity share expenses & driving, can reave 11-25. Call Bill 6827. 
Need ride to Youngstown, Ohio or vicinity, Thanksgiving holiday. Jim 8941. 
Babysitter-Housekeeper wanted. 8-5 Mon-Frl. Transporting children 
-still unidentified -to suc­
ceed  him  as  a  "national  Negro  
leader."  
Adams  said  the  wiretaps  

were authorized by then-Atty. Gen. Robert F. Kennedy. 
Later, committee staff mem­bers said the FBI had justified the bugs under what it consid­ered to be its general in­vestigative authority. 
Staff members said Kennedy and his brother, then-President John F. Kennedy, told King at one point that continued FBI in­terest in his activities arose out of a fear or a suspicion that he was being influenced by some­one the bureau felt was subver­sive. 
Chairman Frank Church, D­Idaho, said that when the New York field office issued a memo saying that the person was not thought to have Communist leanings, it was told emphat­ically by FBI headquarters in Washington that tt was wrong. 
A directive from the late FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover's of­fice said the bureau did not agree with the finding that the investigation should be dropped. While there was no evidence that the person was not a Communist, "neither is there any evidence that he is anti-Communist," the directive said. 
Adams testified that the bu­reau's controversial Coin tel pro activities, which were halted in 1971, began with an effort to "neutralize the Communist par­ty in the United States. 
He said the FBI never asked any attorney general or any one else for authority for the programs, which were later ex­panded to include so-called New Left, white hate, black revolutionary and other groups, including the womens' liber­ation movement. 
Socrates' condemnation discussed by Eva Brann 
The morality of Socrates' con-Plato's '"The Apology" an ac­demnation to death was the basis count of the defense of Socrates, for an American Scene Series Brann showed how he turned his presentation by Dr. Eva Brann of / own defense into an offense for his St. John's University, last night accusers. Socrates, she stated, was before nearly 200 people at Carroll . on trial for charges of corrupting Hall. young men and impiety to gods 
In "Offense of Socrates " Brann chosen by the state. explained how, by asking questions Brann described Plato's essay as which undermined his people's expressing "exulted feeling in standard precepts and morals, the favor of Socrates.·~ Defenders of Greek scholar Socrates was Socrates at that ttme were, she regarded as dangerous in his said, considered liberals, and his Golden Age society. condemnation was a deliberate 
Through a rereading of parts of human deed. 
to school req. May brtngown·chlld.· • • • ·Diamorrds, Enoa!lement sets. 234­Call 289-8933 after 5. 7063. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
government in assassination business plotting assassinations plots and assassination at­but that identification of indi­tempts." viduals involved would unjustly 
Colby said the people named expose them to "some extra-le­in the report "are Americans gal retaliation." 



Two GOP governors back Reagan in '76 
WICHITA, Kan. <AP.) -Ron­ald Reagan's expected decision to challenge President Ford's bid for the 1976 Republican presidential nomination is ap­plauded by two GOP governors who plan to attend the winter conference of the National Re­
publican ation.  Governors'  Associ­ 
But  a  majority  of  the  GOP  

governors responding to an As­sociated Press survey indicated that they believe Ford is stronger in their states, al­though three said Reagan could gather significant support 

RETREAT WEEKEND --MAKE YOUR PLANS BEFORE THANKSGIVING 
WHEN: Dec. 5, 6, 7 WHERE: Old College 
John Dunne, esc will direct the weekend -­COST: $6, with $3 non-refundable deposit 
at Campus Ministry office 
Need ride west on 1-80 to Daven­port Iowa area, can leave Mon. 24 
Nov. 75.carl John 1861. 
ALBUQUERQUE-I need riders to leave Monday eve. Nov. 2<4. Call Dave at 1478. 
Need ride anywhere near Albany NY. Can't leave until Wed. lunch. Please call Bob, 1479. 
Wanted: Ride to Conn. Will share drlvlng.Leavlng Mon. Call Lou, 3316. 
Desperately need ride to ISU (Normal, \II.) this weekend, Nov. 
21. Please call Tim, 1170. 
Need ride to anywhere near Pitt­sburgh. Will share expenses; can't leave till Wed. morning. Mark, 8732. 
RIde needed to Connecticut for Thanksgiving. Call Tim, 8953. 
2 Need Ride to Pittsburgh, Mon. Nov. 24, Call 4409 or 4553. 
FOR SALE 
For sale: Pair of Rally (Bobby Orr) hockey skates, size 10, very good condition, S8. Call Jim, 3338. 
Guitar for sale. Excellent con­dition; moving, must sell, $200. or best offer. Call F?eg, 287-8733. 
FOR SALE~ Jewelry -33 percent off. Turquoise, Coral, Sterling, 
FOR RENT 
Typing $.35 a page. Call Oan 272­5549. 
Off-Campus Housing. Private 12 man student residence. All ac­comodalions, including meals, laundry, single bedrooms. Ex­cellent study atmosphere. 10 minute walk from circle. Places available second semester. Call Pat. 232-0550. 
For Rent: Two female housemates wanted to share 3-bedroom house immediately and-or next semester. 2'12 blocks from Angela­NO intersection. Call 289-4303 between 5 pm and 10pm. 
Rent my upstairs. Near 550 mo. 233-1329, Keep trying. 
NOTICES 
USED BOOKS AND PAPER­BACKS. Large stock of general reading material and o.p. books. Bring this ad and receive one free paperback with any $1.00 pur­chase. The Bookstack, 112 W. Lexington, Elkhart, IN 46514. 
Accurate., fast typing. Call Ms. Donoho. 232-0746. 
Books make great gifts. New books and box sets Ideal for everyone. At Pandora's Books, 937 SB Ave. 
Ga')l Hotlln~~ lnfl!r!"''.aJioi).,Tal~. ,&, • , • , Friends. Gay tommun~y o(l\lotre
Dame. 8870, Fri. 8. Sat., 8-10 om. 
Need a tune up? You buy the parts. I will install plugs, points, condenser, 11nd adjust your liming for $8. Very Experienced. Call Bob, 8610. 
Plants '12 price or better II See flowers by Mr. Bruce, Ad In toda y•s paper. 
John David Mooney Limited Edition (200) Print. $20.(un­
framed).  Print  sale  In  
O'Shaughnessy  Hall,  Mon.  and  
Tues. Nov. 24-25.  

Girls. don't miss Thanksgiving Adventure! No charge. 
Will do typing In my home. Call 
(616) 699-5704. Ask for Deb. 
A course of action... Air Force ROTC. If you've got two acade~ years remaining In school (graduate or undergraduate) look into our AFROTC programs. It's one way of planning for 11 good future. Get all the details today. Contact Capt. M.L.Stockdale, 283. 6635. 
BOOK SHOP. 30,000 Books and Prints. Ralph A Casperson Books. 1303 Niles Buchanan Road, Niles. Hours, Wed. Sat. Sun. 9 to 7 or cchance. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND. $20­150, 1day waiting period, 1percent ~nterest-. Due lrt 30 days. LeFor­tune basement, M-F, 1 :15-12:15. 
among their Republican con­stituents. 
Twelve of the nation's 13 GOP governors are expected to attend the conference, which begins here Thursday. They are scheduled to arrive within hours after Reagan's antici­pated formal announcement. 
Gov. Meldrim Thomson Jr. of New Hampshire said he be­lieves Reagan can win his state's first-in-the-nation presi­dential primary next year and go on to capture the GOP nomi­nation. 
INTERESTED IN PHOTOGRAPHY??? The ND Photo Club will have it's thlrc' meeting Tuesday night at 7:15 Room 205 O'Shag. If you are I· terested, ;you are welcome attend. 
LOST & FOUND 

Lost: Navy blue sky iac 
Possibly contains SMC school r 
Really need coat for win••·• 
Cathy, 4958. 
Found: Gloves Identify when & where. Call Mike. lo; 
Lost: a silver watch Tim El"ctrlc, day-date, Black bartd Reward. Tim, 8164. 
Lost: Ladles• gold watch between BP and Huddle. Reward, X 1287. 
PERSONALS 

Bullwinkle, The Ducks an.t Pierre aren't laughing at you. Happy twenty­first. Patty 
Todd, 
lnat love or does &dreamgo on forever? Here's hoping It's May. 
Love, Patricia 

Pregame Premier: The 399 Dancers will live. Wear your costumes! I· Shannon-you have to learn the new steps\ 
.. 
12 the observer Thursday, November 20, 1975 
Irish battle Russians in Garden 
by Rich Odioso 

Fabled Madison Square Garden, the self-styled basketball capital of the world, will be the scene tonight for a preliminary summit meeting between Notre · Dame's Adrian Dantley, an avowed Olympic candidate. and the defending Olympic champion Russian basket ball team. 
Dantley won't be all the Irish bring to their 9:05 tilt <WSBT radio -960 l. Notre Dame sports its deepest team in years and all ten of the Irish players are making the trip figure to see action. 
For Coach Digger Phelps it will be an important test for his team against a Russian squad that stood 4-5 on its American tour before last night's game at Wake Forest. The Russians have lost by varying margins to five of the best teams in the country: Indiana, Maryland, North Carolina, Marquette and Providence. The Irish will be out to prove that they are worthy of consideration with the nation's best, but they have some han­dicaps working against their quest. 
One, shared by the other schools, is the international rules the game will be played under. The Russians are intimately familiar with these regulations which include in­creased freedom in physical contact and steps without drib­bling, a foul lane with increasing width as it approaches the baseline, a 30-second shot clock and no ten-second rule and no need for the referee to handle the ball on violations. 
The second handicap., shared by the more recent Russian op­ponents, is the experience the Soviets have piled up on their tour. The Russians will have ten games under their belt while this will be 
Final cuts were held Tuesday, selecting the women's basketball team. The 21-member squad will play a 15 game season beginning with Grace College here on Dec. 13. 
Players returning to the squad from last year are: Mary Clemency, Judy Shiely, Brynne Murphy, Becky Banasiak, Patty Coogan, Maureen Maloney, Kathy 
Anderson,  Barb Frey  and  Anne  
Berges.  
New  members  include:  Liz  

Berry, Eunie Sullivan, Bonita Bradshaw, Carol Lally, Jane O'Reilly, Anne Bond, Sue Fondi, Marge Meagher, Molly McGuire, Anne Adams, Laura Dodge and Kathy Dickinson. 
The team is again coached by Jeanne Earley, and newcomer Sally Duffy. Duffy played basketball for Ohio Domincan, trying out for the U.S. Olympic team her senior year. She also has nine years coaching experience behind her. 
Earley ill confident of a strong 
/ 

Notre Dame's first outside test. The Soviets were beaten handily by Marquette and Indiana but more recent games against teams Jf similar caliber, Maryland and North Carolina, have been much closer. 
The final disadvantage is unique to the Irish. Notre Dame, despite being over 4,500 miles closer to New York than Moscow will still be allowed to take only ten players to the Garden under the controversial new NCAA ruling similar to the 48­man road rule in football. The Russians of course will have their full complement of players, making the Irish in effect visitors on American soil. Games under international rules are often foul­prone and it would not be sur­prising for the Irish to get in serious personnel difficulties. 
The Russians are led by Sergei Belov, a 6-8, 190 string bean who is one of the greatest shooters on the planet. His range is comparable to a Vostok booster and lately he's been hitting at over a 30 point per game clip. Some have taken to calling Sergei the "Jerry West of Europe." 
Sergei is not to be confused with 

Aleksandr Belov who is no 
relation. Aleksandr scored the 
disputed winning basket at Munich 
and was subsequently drafted by 
the New Orleans Jazz of the NBA. 
Sergei is much the superior player. 
As usual, the Russians have 

tremendous size. Their frontline 
includes Alzhen Zharmukhamedov 
(6-9), Vladimir Shigili (6-9), and 
Juri Pavlov (6-8). Zhar­
mukhamedov is nearly as strong 
as his name is difficult to 
pronounce. If additional help is 
needed the Soviets have a 7-2 
Mongolian on the bench who is 
second-cousin to the Abominable 
season this year. "We're going to 
have a lot more depth than last 
year. All the kids we have, have 
the potential of being starters," 
she said. 
She cites the strength of the team 

in its speed. "We don't have much 
height, but we have alot of speed," 
she claims. 
Individual b-ball game tickets available today 
Individual game tickets go on sale tomorrow morning for Notre Dame home basketball games with the exception of UCLA, Marquette :md Maryland. These games are already sold out. Less than two hundred tickets remain for the other home games after the most successful season ticket sale in Irish history. The remaining tickets go on sale at 9 a.m. 

the touring Russian national team in Madison Square Garden. Snowman. Billy Paterno at wing and Dice After the game the Irish return As always the Russians will try Martin at point figure to earn to South Bend for their final inter­
to play a disciplined game em-starting nods but look for frosh squad game at 7:30 Sunday in the phasizing power rebounding and Bernard Rencher, Rill Laimbeer ACC. Admission is 50 cents with all outside shooting. The Irish are and Bruce Flowers to see plenty of proceeds going to charity. The ' expected to counter with a veteran action. Duck Williams should also Irish regular season opener is a 
starting lineup. Toby Knight and get plenty of chances to dazzle the week from Saturday with Kent Dave Batton inside, Dantley and Soviets with his moves. State. 
Jrish icers rely on defense 
by Tom Kruczek just have to keep on working and are just not tough enough in 
learning," Smith said. clearing the puck and we have to 
One of the most difficult Another problem Smith men­work onthis, because this is where 
positions in hockey is to play tioned is the ambiguousness of the we are making the mistakes and defense. Rich Schafer, who played ruling for interference. Its the where the goals are coming from. defense in his tenure here at the defenseman 's job to keep the Schafer went on to point out that University calls it "the miracle split crease and the area in front of the the defense have a "hierarchy" of second position," and more im­goalie clear, yet he can't hit the danger. "We try to instruct the portantly, its the position that will player stationed there unless a players about a hierarchy of danger determine whether or not a goal is pass is coming to the man who has so they will watch certain key scored. the puck, if he does, it's two spots. Yet it all comes down to the The last line of protection minutes for interference. Add to fact that they still have to make that a hockey team has to prevent that the fact that some referee's quick decisions as to who to 
a goal is the goalie. But it's the will call interference for brushing cover," He stressed that the 
defense that many times will be into the man in front, and others defense needs a special awareness 
the main reason a goal is scored or won't call it unless you perform a as to potential danger spots and 
not. Failure to clear a man from frontal lobotomy on the man. when players from the opposing 
in front of the crease, or failure to Confusing? Well its confusing for teams get into them, that the 
clear the puck adequately are just the defenseman as well. defenseman must react ac­
two of the examples of lapses at "We try to tell the guys to tie up cordingly. 
defense that will result in a score. the man in front without knocking 
That's why every hockey team them down," Smith explained. "Of Individually the defense has 
needs a solid framework of course some refs will call the play fared well on offense. Brown­
defense, because without that, the one way and its really hard to say schidle, for the season has two 
team is in trouble. how it should be done." It may be goals and five assists, Clarke has 
Charles <Lefty) Smith, in hard to say how it should be done, two goals and four assists and 
examining his defense points out but it is something that has to be Bourque has seven assists while 
that Notre Dame is lucky to have done, and the referee's and the picking up 12 penalites, 5 coming in 
excellent people at the key position. "We are rather fortunate to have Jack Brownschidlee and Paul Clarke at defense. Jack is one of the finest offensive and defensive skatersin the WCHA and we are very happy that he chose to remain at school this year rather than compete with the Olympic team." 
Smith went on to add that Brownschidle also possesses a great instinct for defense, something else that a defenseman must have. This relates to Schafer's reference of the "miracle split second position" where only instinct and the ex­perience of years of playing will help. "You have a spot where the man from tthe other team may be in the corner, on the opposite side form the goalie and you think that he is out of the play," Schafer explained. "Well if there is a good pass and suddenly the man is in the next to the goal with an open shot. You have to just feel which way to go, and it has to be done in an instant. And its that instant that will decidewhethera goal is scored or not." 
Obviously its a tough position, and this year, the Irish have had some porblems at this position. Smith attributes this primarily to inexperience. "Pat Novitzki played wing last year and is now just fully learning the new position. 
Roger Bourque and Paul Clarke are rounding themselves back into the seing of . playing again after missing much of last year, so we judgement call merely adds to woes of defense. 
Another problem the Irish defense has encountered this year is in coming out of the zone. Smith emphasized that the goals that have been scored on the defense are coming mostly from failure to adequately clear the puck. "We thepastweekend. Smith attributes this to an over-eagernesson Bourque's part, but has to be corrected in the future. 
This weekend, when you go to the ACC for the hockey games, try to appreciate some of the problems that the defenseman has trying to prevent goals. 

• · . Ju,nior Paul ClarkeiHds tile hoCkey tum's defensive corps. 







