Oa The Inside 
Free Universitv 
... page 7 

HPC meeting 
... page 3 



Vol. IX, No. 74 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Wednesday, February s, 1975 
Student Affair Staff will consider matter this week 
0-C male lottery still· undecided 

by Mary Reher Staff Reporter 
No decision has been made yet regarding the possibility of a lottery to force men to move off-campus next semester, Sr. John Miriam Jones, Assistant to the provost, said yesterday. 
"The matter will certainly be on the agenda at the weekly meeting of the Student Affairs Staff this Wednesday. "I would mt set hopes that it will be settled at that time, though," she said. 
"First of all, we need to know the number of students who would voluntarily move off campus. If no one were to move off and there were not enough beds, there would possibly be a lottery," Jones oiJ>E:'!"ved. 
"There is a possibility of using ways other than the computer lottery, however. Yesterday, Fr. Burtchaell recommended using the student's grade point average as a basis for his living on or off campus. This systEm had been used before the computer lottery of last year," she stated. 
She noted that last year had been the first year the university used the computer system because it was considered "fair across the board." Ifit is necessary for men to move off campus, fewer men will be asked to do 
LEWIS HALL will house undergrad women next year. The rooms 
measure 11112 feet by 15 feet. The hall contains lounges, cooking 
facilities and a chapel. {Photos by Chris Smith and Paul Joyce). 

Lewis rectress reacts 
b~· Malll"t"t"n Flynn number of our residents are teaching Starr Ht"portt"r assistants. They often meet with their students here because they don't have 

Twenty-four hours did not do a great offices. That will be difficult to do at deal to lessen the shock of Monday's Badin." housing announcement for Sr. Maria "Our rec room has been a big place for Garlock. rectress of Lewis Hall. Although graduates to socialize," Garlock con­she had been notified last week that Lewis tinued. "We've had parties here and other was being considered as a possible un-get-togethers." She expressed concern clergraduate women's hall, Garlock was that the loss of that facility would have an not informed of the official decision until adverse affect on the social life of Monday afternoon. graduate students in general. 
According to the plan announced at that Garlock is glad, however, "that it time. Lewis Hall, which currently houses (Badin l is on the campus. This is women graduate students.•.will become a especially important for students working female undergraduate fac1hty for the 1975-late in the labs and the law school." She 76 academic year. Badin Hall,_an un-added that the transformation of all Badin dergraduate women's dorm for the last rooms into singles "is an important con­three years, will house female graduates sideration." temporarily. _until a pro~osed new on-Conversely, all Lewis accomodations campus fac1hty can be bmlt. will be converted from single to double­
~arlock admitted .th~t the decision w~s :>ccupancy rooms next year. A Lewis fa1r m not appropnatmg another mens double of approximately 11 fr. 3 ins. x 15 hall for women's housing, but pointed out ft. would then be comparable t~ a Keenan­that "Badin is very inadequate for Stanford double of 11 ft. x 14ft. or Flanner­graduate students." Grace rooms estimated at 12 ft. x 15 ft. or 
"Graduates need a lot of room. They need a lot of quiet," she explained. "A 
(continued on page 2) 
so, she stated, because as the number of enrolled women increases, the numbE!" 
of enrolled men decreases. 
Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-president for student affairs, stated, "We have not gone any further on the housing matter since the announcement made yesterday." 
Both On-Campus Housing Director Fr. John Mulcahy and Off-campus Housing Director Fr. Thomas Tallarida declined to comment on the matter. 
Former Ombudsman Bill McLean said, "There is a pa:;sibility that men will be encouraged again this year to move off campus; note that there are many variables involved in this." 
F.irst, he observed that some students are South Bend residents living with therr parents at home and would not need beds on campus. At this time there are 1500 to 1600 off-campus students; included in this figure are about 200 sturents living at home and aoout 200 students living overseas on foreign programs, so there are actually about liDO students in <if-campus housing. H there are more incoming freshmen living at home than the number of graduating seniors, there will be moce available beds next year. 
Secondly, he noted the fact that students will be moving into RA. positions left vacant by graduating seniors providing extra beds and that thE!"e are some one hundred empty beds on campus right now because students have left school for various reasons. 
Thirdly, McLean said the percentage of those students vduntarily moving off-campus must be considered, which is an estimated 60 to 70 percent of all of­campus students. 
There is a possibility of squeezing approximately 50 to 100 more students into the dorms by converting singles to doubles, noted McLean. "Whatever is the number of students left over out of all these considerations will have to be compensated for," he said. 
"The question of housing rests upon financial considerati(Xls," stated McLean. "Due to inflation the financial aid spending power is threatened and the cost of operations is up. The estimated cost of Flanner Tower when it was built was $7 million ; to build the same tower tody would cost $12 million." 
Notre Dame is one of the few universities with steadily rising applications and follow-throughs, according to McLean. The number <i follow-throughs in 1972 was 54 pE:'!"cent of the number of students accepted and last fall it ros(! to 60 percent. The exact number of incoming freshmen can never be determined in advance because it all depends on how many follow through aftE!" being ac­cepted. 
If, because of the decrease in financial aid, fewer students were able to attend Notre Dame or if the number offollow-throughswere to decrease, it would be better to invest the money in scholarships than spend it building a new dorm. In this way, qualified students could afford to attend the university, McLean said. 

"There has been a lack on the students' part to look at housing related to enrollment and financial aid," stated McLean, "and these are the most crocial points." 
0-C co-op approved; fall opening planned 
their knowledge of business and the by Don Reimer University and their availability forStaff Reporter service. 

Student Body President Pat McLaughlin McLaughlin expressed hope that manydisclpsed yesterday that the off-campus of these who contributed to the reportfood co-{)p erport, submitted last week to would continue to serve on the Board of 
the University Officers, has been ap-Directors. "It is hoped that some of those proved.The cooperative is slated to open on faculty members and students who con­the first day of the fall semester. tributed to the original cooperative report 
The report's original request for a will continue to serve in the im­$12,000 loan was rejected in favor of an plementation and operation of the CO-{)p,"alternative plan involving the sale of remarked McLaughlin.
memberships in the co-{)p. The plan, Once selected, the Board of Directors decided upon after consultation between will decide upon the remaining details the University Officers and Student including the site for the co-{)p and Government officials, calls for sale of 1000 initiation of a volunteer work system. The 
co-{)p memberships at a $10 fee. board will also control the day-to-day"If the goal of 1000 members is not met, operations of the co-{)p.further assistance will be given through Referring to the volunteer work system, 
Dr. Phillip Faccenda, University Counsel McLaughlin stated, "This will serve to and Brother Just Paczesny, Vice give maximum savings by cutting the President for Student Affairs," explained overhead of employment."
McLaughlin. "Most probably, it will be the volunteer Thw revenue from these sales will cover work system that will judge the success or 
the initial costs of the CO-{)p and, in the failure of the cooperative," McLaughlin event of failure of the co-{)p, will serve like stated. shares of f-fbe: enabling members to call Stan Cardenas, Off-Campus Com­
upon the a:ssets. missioner, commented on the im­A membership drive will begin im­plementation of the co-{)p. "It is going to 
mediately after room picks this semester be a big challenge for everyone involved to with memberships being offered to anyon~ pull together and put this CO-{)p into in the university community. "It is hoped operation."that next year's off-campus students will "It's a big job and it is important to have have decided after room picks this wide-spread support from the University 
semester to become the original mem­community. This support will be bers," stated McLaughlin. measured by participation in the purchase The share method of financing is good plan," stated Cardenas. for the co-{)p in two ways according to 
McLaughlin stressed the importance ofMcLaughlin. "It will help to gather active the University community in the futureinterest within the operation since the success of the co-{)p. "We have themembers will have a personal stake in it," commitment of the University toward aexplained McLaughlin. "Furthermore, a cooperative but we will need the com­membership drive will serve as a market munity's commitment to see that it survey for the customers." 

works," he said.
The first step in opening the CO-{)p will be "By this time next year, I hope to be able the formation of a Board of Directors, to thank the student and faculty members which will be selected by the Co-{)p of the University for making theCommittee. The directors will be chosen cooperative a success," concludef· on the basis of their willingness to serve, McLaughlin. 


2 ___._t~h~e~o~b=-=s:...::e~r:._v~e:..:.r____W_ed_n_e_sday, February s, 1975 


warld briefs 
WILLIAMSBURG, Va. <UPI>-Convicted Watergate conspirator John W. Dean III said Tuesday night he had "no more Watergate bombs to drop." 
Dean addressed a mostly student crowd of about 5000 at the College of William & Mary. He said he knew the identity of the mysterious Watergate news leak, "Deep Throat," as he was called by Washington Post reports Robert Woodward and Carl Bernstein, but he refused to name him. 
He said he did not know what was on the 18 minutes of erased White House tapes. 
SHAWANO, Wis. <UPI>-Amid angry outbursts and under heavy security, Indians who occupied an abandoned Catholic abbey for 34 days were charged Tuesday with offenses ranging from disorderly conduct to armed robbery and false imprisonment. 
an campus taday 
12:15 pm--seminar, "current economic forecast," by prof. edward trubac, rm. 26, hayes-healy. 
5 pm--vespers, evensong, log chapel. 
4:30 pm--seminar, "structure, bonding and reactivity of metal­nitrosyl complexes," by dr. john enemark, rm. 123 nieuwland. 
6,8, 10 pm--film, "american graffiti," spons. by cultural arts comm., $1, eng. aud. 
6:30pm--meeting, sailing club, rm.204, eng bldg. 
7:30 
pm--meeting, faculty senate, rm. 202, cce. 

7:30 
pm--ledure, "problems In modern germany" by bruno schlesinger, carroll hall, madeleva bldg. 


8:10pm--basketball, mclhlgan state university vs. notre dame, ace. 
8:15 pm--concert,davld clark Jsele, baritone; william cerny, plano, lib. aud. 
9 pm--tv, state of siege, channel 11 (chicago) 
10 pm--film, "citizen kane," howard hall chapel. 
Lew-is rectress reacts 
(continued from page I) 
13ft. X 141ft. By eontrast. a Badin single mt·asures approximately 8 ft. x 13 
ft. 
Citing the differences in the Lt•wis and Badin facilities, (;arlock predicted that "next year will be a very difficult year, but if there is a new graduate hall in '76, one year in Badin should be tolerable." 
"The plan for a new residence hall is the crucial point," em­phasized Garlock. "If the university wants graduate women students. adequat~ on-campus 
TONIGHT 
THREE SHOWS 6, 8, & 1 0 P.M. 
Engineering Auditorium 
Admission one dollar, Onemo 75 patrons free 
housing must be provided to at­lract them." 
MardiGras Bonus 
Due to extremely poor at­tendance. tonight Goldrush '75 presents ND's biggest bargain--a free kazoo. frisbee. or key chain to all patrons. Also fifty cents ad­mission to anyone who presents a student basketball ticket, or at­lends American Graffiti and 2live shows: folk singers Judy and .lt•annie llolyar and Tae Kwon Do's reply to Kung Fu. Help make mardi gras a success and get over there. 
It was tne \<.in' 
·..ne ol rna ..
th • · d cruis1n. 
out an d 
oin9 stea, Y g nd plaV'n ~t cool. It was tne time ol 
your \ile. tne time ol 1\tnerican 
Gralliti. 
' 

Third World Fund to collect stall contributions lor charity 
by Shawn Scannell Starr Reporter 

The Nitre Dame Third World 
Fund has been organized by 
faculty members to collect cm­
tributions which will be taken from 
the payroll of all participating 
faculty and staff. The cm­
tributions will be sent to a group of 
seven charitable organizations to 
be used fa-aid to underdeveloped 
countries, according to Peter 
Walshe, instrumental in the Fund's 
organization. 
The intention of the Fund is to 
raise money for various 
organizations which have what 
Walshe calls "pools of expertise" 
to deal with the problem of im­
balance of distribution of the 
world's resources. 
The difference that the operation hopes to make is in sending aid for humanitarian reasons, where much of previous aid was "manipulative", that is with un­derlying political effects as their purpose, Walshe said. The Fund hopes to provide a group of qualified organizations with funds to help meet the priorities fi Third world nations, confident the spending will be optimized, he added. 
The seven organizations are: Ql tholic Relief Services, CARE, UNICEF, Church World Services, OXFAM, Coworkers fi Mother Theresa, and IFCO-RAINS. 
La:,~ week, all of the faculty and staff members at Notre Dame were sent pledge cards with which each individual can designate a desired amount to be withheld from his paycheck, the money going to the Fund. The con­tributions are tax deductible and are withheld each week for the ye:Ir of the pledge. 
The bookwork involved will be 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased lor S9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box· Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 



SPRING VACATION GRAND CANARY ISLAND CAPER MARCH 29 TO APRIL 6 $359 
PACKAGE INCLUDES:
* 
Round-trip Transportation VIa TAl Airlines 

* 
7 Nights at 4-star Luxury Hotel; Air Conditioned 

* 
Welcome Sant'gria Party 

* 
Continental Breakfast Dally 

* 
Nightly Cocktail Party with Free Hors d'Oeurves and Half Price Drinks 

* 
Transfers by Deluxe Motor Coach to and from Hotel 

* 
Sight Seeing Tour of Las Palmas 

* 
Free Tennis 


* 
All Baggage Handling 

* 
All Gratuities to Porters 


DEPOSIT OF $100 DUE FEBRUARY 15, 1975 CALL COLLECT 312 • 341 • 0286 
BEVERLEY GRAY TRAVEL AGENCY 200 South Michigan Ave. Chicago, Illinois 60604 
handled by the accounting department, which will also issue the checks. Each participating pledgor is asked to state his preference of organizations to which the mmey will go. H there is no preference, his contribution will be split evenly among the seven groups. 
The cards are due Feb. 7 and at that time all will be collaborated to obtain a formula by which the total 
The Cultural Arts Commission Presents In Concert 
Herbie Hancock 
sum will be divided. Girds will be accepted after this time but cannot be included in the formula, and will be handled separately at a later date. 
AI Sondej, a student organizer for the Fund, noted that the decision on the seven organizations was made with attention to several criteria of efficiency. 




' ., 

Herbie Hancock, In Concert, Thursday, February 20 Stepan Center 8 pm 
Tickets are $4.00 and may be purchased at Student Union Ticket Office, Boogie Records, or Pandora's. 

Wednesday, February 5, 1975 
ATTENTION ALL GRAD. STUDENTS 
EMERGENCY MEETING 
Pagna given Alumni post 
by Tom Brennan Staff Reporter 
Tom Pagna, an assistant coach under Ara Parseghian fpr the past eleven football seasons, has been named executive director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Pagna revealed yesterday that he has rejected offers from the Cleveland Browns and Detroit Lions in accepting the direc­torship. 

Tom Pagna 

In deciding to remain at Notre Dame, Pagna said he hopes to make a contribution to the com­munity he has come to know and love. He said the overriding factor in his decision to accept the position was his desire to stay at Notre Dame. 
"My love for Notre Dame is greater than my love for football," Pagna said. He added that he is impressed with his new boss, Vice­President of Public Relations and Development James Frick, and that he hopes to do the best job possible. 
Pagna said he hopes to expand and strengthen the Alumni Association to meet the ever­increasing demands made upon private institutions such as Notre 
Dame. Notre Dame needs the loyalty of its members if it is to continue to provide leadership and education, he noted. 
Pagna observed that increasing_• life expectancies can add an extra dimension to the Notre Dame community, and that he will en­courage alumni of all ages to become involved in the association. The former coach added that it is important for the new graduate to know that he or she will have a place to identify with after graduation. 
Another of his goals is to make seniors more aware of the op­portunities available to them through their local alumni clubs. Just as the alumni provide a lifeline to the University, Notre Dame can benefit members of its community long after graruation, Pagna said. 
Pagna said his love for Notre Dame and its people has been an ongoing process these past eleven years. He recalled his first speaking engagement at Notre Dame Night in Denver Colorado in 1964. In order to welcome him and show their support, the members of the club spontaneously broke into a a rendition of the fight song upon his introduction. 
"The miles separating these people from the campus couldn't cut their tie with Notre Dame," Pagna stated. 
Pagna, the first non-alumnus to hold the directorship of the alumni club, noted that he has benefitted greatly from his association with the University. He added that he feels as though he is as much a part of Notre Dame as if he had at­tended school here as an un­
graduate. 

Cox criticizes HPC inaction 
by Lonnie Luna Staff Reporter 
Zahm Hall President Doug Cox informed the Hall Presidents Council last night that he has requested his hall government to divorce itself from the HPC. 
Cox cited student apathy and HPC inaction on university issues as the basis for his hall's with­drawal. He charged the HPC with failing to use its powers and complained that the HPC lacks a real sense of direction. 
The Zahm Hall Council voted last week to authorize Cox to present his complaints to the campus-wide organization last night. Cox refused last night to comment any further on the matter. 
HPC Cahirman Bob Howl strongly advised Cox to hold a hall referendum to determine the entire hall's position on the HPC. He noted that another group representing Zahm Hall could conceivably replace the Cox delebation. 
Howl pointed out that the HPC had been strictly organized as a service group and it has no real power in campus policy as stated in the preamble to the HPC constitiut10n. 
''We are here to make recom­mendations to the University, rot to exert any form of power," Howl told Cox. 
The HPC chairman noted that the HPC has been influential in its advisory capactiy in that the council has written four letters to the University Administration this year and is currently in the process of writing another. 
The HPC appointed a six­
member committee to discuss the 
Cox charges and the entire issue of 
the HPC's role in student life. 
l.l'th•r rlraftt>d 

The HPC also drafted a letter 
addressed to the University 
discussing the financial position of 
the University with the conversion 
of Lewis Hall into an un­
dergraduate women's dorm. 
The letter asks the University to 
consider the points: 1 l the $IDO 
increase in all Notre Dame 
students' tuition and room and 
board, 2) the additional $50 per 
semester the women involved in 
the conversion would have to oav 
THINK ... CQ.LEGE LIFE 
INSURANCE CO.OF AMERICA 
on topof the tuitioo increase and 3.) the size factorof rooms the women will encounter. The letter will be released to the University Ad­ministration sometime this week. 
Frank Flanagan, student body vice-president, read a letter concerning the Notre Dame Food Co-op. The co-op will open the first day of the fall semester and the member ship drive will begin after room picks. 
$111 ft•t• 

All members joining the co-op 
will pay $10 for a membership 
card that entitles them to use th 
co-op and the C<>-op will also be 
open to faculty. The co-op will be 
manned by the members them­
selves, Flanagan said. 
Sites and details for the co-op 
will not be decided upon until the 
Board of Trustees in charge of te 
co-op has been selected. 
Bob Howl, HPC chairman, 
concluded the meeting with the 
reading of a letter from the St. 
Mary's-Notre Dame Counseling 
Centers. The centers are spoo­
soring discussion group; at both 
campuses on male-female relationships the purpose of the discussions is to create a setting in which men and women at St. Mary's and Notre Dame can discuss issues of mutual concern. Tentative issues includP.: 
problems in building relationships, the dating game, implications of the changing roles of men and women in dating, marriage, child rearing and work, communication in sexual realationships and parental expectations to develop attitudes which enhance in­terpersonal communication both inside and outside of the group. 
The method of the discussion groups will be some structured exercises, and encounter. The groups will strive to develop open and honest communication and to create a climate conducive to personal developemnt and a 
meaningful exploration of  the  
above issues.  
As  the  group  develops  and  

mt>mbers learn to trust each other to a greater degree, they will be mcouraged to share their feelings and attitudes toward each other as 
,well as about the issues. 

Acareer in law­

WilhOUIIBW SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the six courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 700 graduates in law firms. banks, and corporations in over 60 cities. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant, we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
TUESDAY,FEBRUARY11 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street, Philadelphia. Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
·Indiana T. Reg. #AC0035 

MEM. LIB. AUD. THURS. FEB. 6 
12:15 P.M. 

NOW APPEARING 
BLITZ 
AND 
LISTEN 



~Sizu/a ~ 

NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS 

on U.S. 31 bttwee11 Niles. So. B•d-Fr11 P1rtir.&·683-4350. 

TONIGHT 
7 & 7's 40ct from 8:00 -11 :00 

. ' 

MORRIS so. BfND
AUDITORIUM ;

1 CIVIC IND. . 
~' 

ONE PERFORMANCE ONLY! Thursday, Feb. 13 -7:30 

aTHE ....av·.....EIB NIGER 
\\iitltn and Dill'tlffl S.· 

Joseph A.Walker 

1t's blackness Is beautifuL" 
.......Clive Barnes, N.Y. Tiroos 

Box Office Now Open Mon. thru Sat. -10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Main Floor and SPECIAL STUDENT PRICES 
Balcony Seats $5 _ $4 _ $250'_ $150 10 percent discount on groups of 20 or more. Phone 232-6954 



THE OBSERVER 
Laugh at This 

AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
NEWS: 213-171$ BUSINESS: 213-7471
EDITORIALS: 213-166\ 


Column 

f:"ncl Gr•ver Tom Dnpe Terry Keeney Edltor'YI Editor Editor-In-Chief News Editor 
Bob MctMnus Bob Zotllls 
annmccarry
Business ,_,...,.
Advertlshlg tMnaaer 
Wednesday, February S, 1975 


Graduate Housing 
The decisions to convert Lewis Hall Second, the architects on retainer for from a graduate student residence to an the University have yet to begin drawing undergraduate women's residence up plans for a graduate housing com­should be recognized as a sound one, plex. The Campus-View apartments are though it does little to eliminate the a good example of the feasibility of housing problem that has been an annual quickly building a student housing site, as occurrence at Notre Dame since co­they are still working to complete con­education began in 1972. struction. 
In last year's report of the Committee Third, Badin Hall may become more On University Priorites (COUP), 1976 than a one-year temporary residence for was stated as the final year of the "period graduate students, throwing the rest of of transition" for co-education. 1976 is the housing situation into chaos. coming upon us, and the Lewis Hall It has yet to be decided whether or not a decision makes very evident that much lottery will be held for off-campus moves will be left undone in the wake of the next semester. Though there are cer­"period of transition." tainly some variables that have to be 
The history of Badin Hall in the last considered, this consideration should four years is a good indication of the have begun earlier, rather than leaving manner in which the University has students in the dark. handled the housing problem. Badin has Basically, the decision is a good stop­gone from a men's residence hall, to one gap measure. But, it has been made so for women, and now a hall for women late that the coming month, or longer, graduate students. In each instance, the will be a time of great unnecessary decision to alter the status of Badin Hall pressure on those who wish to live on­was made in an atmosphere of pressure campus next year. The decision should and student paranoia about the housing have been made and announced before situation. semester break, giving students time to 
The question arises: Once quotas for consider options and discuss the housing female enrollment were set, why was situation among themselves and at there no long-range plan for the change­home. As it exists, the housing situation over of residence halls? looks as if it will be nothing but trouble. 
The graduate housing situation is The Administration, particularly the shaky and unclear. How strong is the Student Affairs Department, needs to University's committment to the come up with a long-range plan, ranging graduate housing complex? There are from 1976 to at least the end of the three areas which, upon investigation, decade, on housing. It would save agreat show a very weak foundation for deal of hardship for everyone invovled. beginning such a project. 
First, there is presently no money available for building such a complex. 
Fred GraverNo money exists in the Plant Fund Government loans are almost impossible to obtain and endowment funds are already pledged towards academic priorities. 

r 
r 
r 
r the observer 
[ Editorials: John Amantea, FredNight Editor: Bill Brink 
Graver

Asst. Night Editor: Val Zurblls 
Typists: John Roos, J. Landis, T.

layout: another good question 
Modglin, Kathy Grace,

Copy Reader: Ken Bradford 
Picture Screener: AI

Day Editor: Ken Girouard 
Night Controllers: M. J. Foley,
Sports: Greg Corgan 
Howard Halle
Features: Norm Bower 

A friend came into my room, picked up my copy of a mutually 
favorite book, Thurber's My Life and Hard Times and sat down 
with a sigh. 
"It's not funny anymore, Annie. Usually, when I'm bummed, I 
can count on "The Night the Bed Fell" or "The Night the Ghost Got 
In" to alleviate the pressure. But, today, I saw the light. Thurber 
isn't writing comedy, he's writing tragedy." 
I nodded resignedly, remembering the term paper we had each 
written on the man. I don't know what his topic was but mine was 
the point he had just made: that while James Thurber is probably 
one of the wittiest and most comical writers of our time, his insight 
is a predominantly serious one. Even Thurber would admit to the 
black side of his humor but he was still able to laugh, to appreciate 
the subtle humor or absurdity of life even through his own blindness 
and problematic old age. 
Our discussion continued. We talked about other writers whose 
reputations had been built on humor but who, in all actuality, were 
seriously commenting on the sad realizations of their lives. Our 
realization was a sad one: that we were outgrowing the blissful 
superficial ignorance of childhood and that somewhere along the 
line our country seemed to be losing its sense of humor, too. 
When Jack Benny died last month I remembered the wake we 
had begun onlydays before for the American sense of humor. And, 
I started laughing. Jack Benny would probably think it was pretty 
funny. But, I continued to wonder.. .is America losing its sense of 
humor? 
Nothing can beat the American sense of humor in a laugh contest. 
It's slapstick, it's subtle, it's sarcastic and even cutting. But it is 
funny, entertaining and exemplary of American spunk. 
The country really began as a kind of joke. Columbus thought that he was going to India. Instead, he discovered America. HistoricaJly, most of our leaders have been somewhat comical, advertantly or inadvertantly, beginning with Washington's wooden teeth. I even find it amusing, in an ironic way, that the rleaths of both Washington and AI Capone were due ultimately to the same disease. 
Throughout our history we have laughed at our own mistakes, chuckled through our misfortunes and smiled in the face of defeat. Our sense of humor is a rare trait and I think it is characteristic of our society. We're a loud, boisterous fun-loving, even hedonistic people. We like to laugh and enjoy ourselves even though we're in the midst of a depression, a war or exam week. Our plights usually become the source of our humor. Remember Biafra jokes? Seen 
M.A.S.H lately? Heard any good ethnic jokes? Yes, you can't deny it. We love to laugh~ven at ourselves. The best and most recent example of this is the success of the Woody Allen film festival. 
Allen is the shlemielin us all. We can laugh at him, with him and cheer for him. The overwhelming response to the event makes me wonder if we really are losing our humorous bent or if the trauma of Watergate, residentiality, the increase in the price of gum and the upcoming vernal equinox make it chic to become serious, involved concerned students in the mode of the somber 60's. Don't get me wrong. I have no case on anyone who is concerned or worried with the state of nationaland world affairs. In fact, I would put myself in that category. But, the fact remains that we can still smile. 
I'm not su~gesting that _laughter will feed the world's hungry, release the stifled frustrations of the repressed or fertilize money trees on the North Quad. But, if can make our problems easier to bear. Comedy is an intimate part of our heritage. Think about people like Harpo, Chico, Zeppo and Groucho, W.C. Fields, Charlie Chaplin, Woody Allen, George Burns, Jack Benny, Will Rodgers, Mister Rogers, Curious George, Dr. Seuss, Charles Schulz, James Thurber, Mark Twain, Mel Brooks ... We c"!ln't let them down. Tickle yourself. Start laughing. 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

L_ 
l:he year at: innsbruck 
the way we work and mostly play 

Lzm a'reiley 
Like the column title says, this is, for the most part, a year in Innsbruck. We have our classes, room and toard he-e, and we don't have enough money foc constant travel. So we spend most ri our time here, settling into a semi-Austrian lifestyle. 
Innsbruck, the capital of Tirol, sits in the middle of ju,;t about everything, which is why the city came to be in the first place. Built in the Inn \'alley along the river, the city has been for ce:~turies, the main stop on the only natural high\<~·ay through the Alps. Switzerland, Italy, and West Germany lay within shouting distance, with Eastern Europe not much farther away, making travel very convenient. 
Structually, Innsbruck is typical of most European cities. In the middle of town stands the old sector <Alstadt),where Inn­sbruck began and was once a walled city. The tourist attractions are located here, along with the tourist prices and the English-speaking shopkeepers. The most important building; were built by the Church and royalty, the latter recycled for other purposes with the coming of democracy. Almost everybody lives in apartment buildings about five stories tall, that form a solid wall along the street but contain inner courtyards. The only taller structures are new apartments; private homes are virtually nonexistent. Streets snake through the town at random, twisting and curving in sev6'al directions, while all highways are rtm around the city limits. 
Alps to the north and Alps to the south have made Tiroleans a provincial people. Quaint customs, such as switching girls' legs on St. Nicolas' Eve, have sprung up along with a mu,;h-mouth accent that can make German shound like another language. The people are very proud of their mountains; hiking, whether for children or grandmothers, ranks as Ritol's favorite pasttime. Many are farmers, having carved out their fields on the motmtain slopes. Tiroleans may look weird to us at times, but they seem to be enjoying themselves. 
Of course, we like to enjoy ourselves too and fortunatey the classes have been designed to let us do that. Our formal education is a comrromise between the Notre Dame and much different Austrian system, wh6'e a student is on his own to find housing, classes, and schedules. The half­and-half method requires a little ad­justment, but insures high grades for those who take it se-ioosly. 
We are offered six Europe-ilriented courses <German, art history, regular history, economics, drama, an9 psychology) by the program and may take a regular U. of Innsbruck class. Only one meets at the same time twice, the rest are erratically scheduled to fit the professors' schedules and so that there are no simultaneous classes. Next semester we have only five courses but a four day week. 
We use U. of Innsbruck professors, most of whom have been moonlighting with the 
program for years. They teach in German, but with a simple vocabulary that makes things easy to understand. To accomodate the language we cover only basic material, and half the teachers supply us with mime~raphed sheets which detail all the information we must know for the two tests per semester. It may seem ridiculously easy, and by ND standards it is, but being tied to books in Innsbruck would mock a main purpose of this year: to discover Europe first-hand. 
For getting to classes, all around the town, and coming into contact <football stylel with the natives, we have passes that allow us to ride the busses and trolleys free. Since our rooms are spread all over, and at least a half hour's walk from the university, the passes have helped keep winter from being quite so cold. 
Nine different landladies (housfraus) have been retained to house us in a variety of singles, doubles, and triples. Five women are exiled on the edge of town in a three room plus kitchen apartment. One boarding house with five singles, another with five doubles, hold most ofthe men. The rest live with families in Innsbruck's low-income section, Praddler-Saggen. They, too, are boarders for the most part, not moving into the apartment as me of the sons or daughters. 
Living conditions vary with the hausfrau. Some ration heat, soowers, and toilet paper. 
Some like to arrange the rooms the way they like not the way we can find things. Some· give us moce for breakfast than othe-s, which all must serve. But for the most part, the allow us to do as we want, not worrying about silly rules like parietals, so long as we don't violate the Austrian quiet­down hour of 10:00 p.m. 
To cover oth6' expenses we get a monthly cash allotment to cove-laundry, lunch, and Saturday night dinners. The othe-nights we use coupons to eat at a restaurant that specially sets-up for ~-What they serve are basically Austrian meals, which means a lot of starch <rice, }Xltatoes, bread, etc.) and some nights that trigger a major search to find meat in the entree. 
Spare time, while plentiful, is not always the best thing to have in Innsbruck, a South Bend-sized city. Winter sports, skiing in particular, are a big diversion but with some big prices. The same thing holds for Gasthauses <pubs); age is no problem, the beer is great, but it costs too much to make a nightly activity. Besides movies <dubbed-in German) and a good symphony and opera, there is not much else in a city that rolls in the sidewalks by 9:00p.m. 
At times, things become a little boring, making life seem a more difficult than it really is. Then, we might long for the comforts of .America again, or even a few hours back at Notre Dame. Innsbruck, however, is far from dull, and with Europe surrounding us, no one has yet complained of missing South Bend. 

what they do, they do well 
The seventies have brought America a new wave of rock and rollers, and while few groups today can rock as well as Chuck Berry, the Stones or the early Beatles, all of the bands generate the same kind of gutsy entertainment that the listeners expect. A singer who calls himself Jim Dandy represents the band Black Oak Arkansas, 
In 1972, the leading record critic of "Rolling Stone", Stephen Holden, wrote of Randy Newman's album Sail Away, "It stands alongside the John Lennon and Paul Simon albums as another milestone within the evolving rock-as-art-song form. Sail Away is a major achievement of a new era." 
Later, both Stereo Review and High Fidelity picked it among their choices of albums of the year. 
It has been two years since the ap­pearance of Sail Away, but the release this month of Newman's latest album, Good Old Boys, is a worthy reward for the wait. 
Good Old Boys has a principle focus on the South, past and present. The album opens with the song "Rednecks" which demon­strates Newman's capabilities. 
The figure in the song is a Southerner who is upset because he "saw Lester Maddox on a TV show -With some smart-ass New York Jew-And the Jew laughed at Lester Maddox-And the audience laughed at Lester Maddox too." In protest then he writes a song the first part of which lists unmercifully .the faults of the modern South and cufminates in the chorus, "We're Rednecks-We don't know our ass from a hole in the ground--And we're keeping the 
by frank palmieri 
rock musicians of questionable talent but obvious popular appeal, and interviewing him before the Notre Dame concert in December made this entertainment-artists 
confusion apparent. 

The singer explained that he considers Black Oak Arkansas a "people's band," his southern country drawl confirming his statement. 
"People look to us for lots of things," he explained in answer to a question concer­ning his sexually suggestive stage gestures. "And when they're filled with a lot of ten­sion, we feel that they can come to our concerts and let it all out." 
Fine. A reasonable explanation to a certainly valid form of entertainment. But then one of the other interviewers asked a question about the single "Jim Dandy to the Rescue"--was this a commercial sell~ut of a good band? It seemed that several of the interviewer's friends were quite upset about it. And I give Jim Dandy the credit of an­swering simply, "No, we don't think so, it was just a lot of fun." 
The problem is this: There is no intrinsic musical difference between "Jim Dandy to the Rescue" and any of the band's non­commercial tunes. Black Oak Arkansas represents rock only at the level of en­tertainment, and if the people at the ACC were as entertained as they appeared, the band was successful. The interviewer was guilty of the same fallacy that misguides many rock fans today. In a search for new super-artists they are willing to settle for virtually anything. How many "Sgt. Peppers of the seventies" have there been? Last time I looked there were at least half a dozen, ranging from Lou Reed's "Berlin" to half of David Bowie's albums. These albums certainly have merit, but the critical mind must realize that if a "Sgt. Pepper" or "Blonde on Blonde" exists on 
the plane of art, that is only because it is exactly that good. 
This is not to say that rock is lacking in artists. No form of entertainment will ever be without artists, and this includes rock, jazz, films or books. But to be an artist you have to be good. Black Oak Arkansas is not a good band. At the ACC for example, the few decent solos that the guitarists took were inaudible behind the drummer's ob­session with offbeat cymbal crashes, and Jim Dandy's voice was probably the least musical thing possibly conceivable this side of the Ozarks. 
But many people went away satisfied, and that is only upsetting when they bring to praise the band instead of the concert. They seem to forget that one can become drunk on bad wine as well as champagne. 


•

huey, mar1e and birmingham 
Niggers down." Pretty funny, huh. Well stay tuned, the joke's on you. 
The second part of the song opens, "Now your northern Nigger's a Negro -You see he's got his dignity-Down here we're too ignorant to realize--The North has .set the Nigger free--Yes he's free to beput in a cage­-in Harlem in New York City--And he's free to be put in a cage-in the South-side of Chicago .... " and this litany continues listing major cities throughout the North and ends suddenly with the couplet "They're gatherin' 'em up from miles around--Keepin the Niggers down." The song that appeared to be after a few cheap laughs at the expense Of the South turns out to be powerful in­dictment of an entire nation. 
There are two "song cycles" on this album, songs strung together that deal with the same theme. One traces the •career of Louisiana politician Huey Long, who built up the greatest political machine in A~erican politics. (These songs were in­spired by Newman's reading of T. Harry Williams biography of Long.' The first song "Louisana 1927" shows the misfortunes the poverty stricken state were facing the year before Long became governor. When the 


a review by john zygmunt 
farmersaysof the floods that are besieging the state "They're trying to wash us away," Newman makes it obvious these are the words of a man almost without hope. The hope Long supplied to these people is symbolized by a song he wrote called ''Every Man a King" ("Why weep or slumber America-Land of Brave and true­With castles and clothing and food for all­1\11 belongs to you.") The final song "Kingfish", Long's nickname, reflects the enigma Long was by listing his progressive 
reforms in the verse, but the chorus, which the people sing, has the sound ironically of an old slave chant, the people now slaves to the almost facsist machine Long con­structed. 
The gentler side of Newman's perception of the South is found in his second "song cycle" ("Birmingham"-"Marie"). The main character is a steel roller in Bir­mingham. He speaks simply and lovingly of his life ("Got a wife named Mary--But she's called Marie--We live in a three room house with a pepper tree") and so when he says at the end "You can travel cross the entire land--But there's no place like Bir­mingham," there is no bitterness in him or the listener. The second song "Marie" is addressed to his wife, as he tries to explain his love for her: "I'm drunk right now baby­-but I've got to be--or I never could tell you-­What you mean to me.") And when the song is over, the drunken steel roller's simple words help make up one of the most beautiful new songs I've heard all year. 
Of the songs included that don't deal with the South, the best is "Guilty"which also appears on the new Joe Cocker album. It is said that Cocker's reading of this song makes for the best moment of his career and certainly this is a song that could provide that. 
There is a great deal of foolishness being written today about rock "poets" whose work is claimed to compare favorably with major literary figures. However, there is in American history a strain of "serious" popular music, written by men .\VhO knew the limits of the popular song and explored them to the fullest, men like Stephen Foster and Scott Joplin. I honestly believe Randy Newman has the potential to follow in this tradition. He is the best best and still the most promising figure in American popular music today. If you'll listen to him I assure you, you will not be poorer for the ex­perience. 


''British Rock in the Royal Tradition" 
• 
Live Feb. 9 in South Bend at Morris Civic
Freddie Mercuryt 
Vocals 

and on Q~ Records and Tapes at
Brian May 
Guitar 



BOOGIE RECORDS
John Deacon 
in College Square, Mishawaka
Bass Guitar 
(across from Town &Country Shopping Center)
Roger Meddows·Taylor 
Percussion 
LPs Regularly $4.99 

6 
the observer Wednesday, Febraury S, 1975 
$50 first prize 
Mock Stock Market slated 
b~· ,\nna Monardo Starr Rt>porter 

The Notre Dame Finance Club will offer a $50 prize to the winner of this year's Mock Stock Market. Additional cash prizes will be $25 for second place and $10 for third. 
"The purpose of the Market is to 

provide an educatimal experience in the mechanics ci. stock in­,·estment for students of all majors,"· Jed Curtis, market chairman. said. 
The Stock Market will operate

•d ht f
SeIf-heIp a I SOUQ or 
underdeveloped countriesth~~:r~ago~t~~tr~~~an~;od, 
(continued from page 2) 
Organizations were examined carefully as to low administrative 
Smith appointed new Photo Editor 
Chris Smith, a senior electrical engineering major from Aurora, Colo., has been elevated to the position of photo editor for the Observer by Tom Drape, editor-in­chief. Smith replaces Zenon BiC:zinski who will become a contributine editor. 
Smith has worked for the Ob­

server as a photographer for the 
Jastyea1 and a half. Last semester 
he was appointed as a contributinR 
editor. Smith is currently uH! 
photo editor of the Dome, a position 
that he held last year also. 
QU&N SHEER HEART AnACK 
under the same procedures as a brokerage firm. One dollar will purchase an investment account worth $10,000 and three accounts will cost two dollars. 
Contestants can purchase any <.'omrnon stock on the New York or American Stock Exchange. There is no limit to the number of stocks per portfolio and stocks may be bought long or sold short at any time during the trading period. 
The market will be open Monday through Friday, February 10 through March 14 and is open to all 
costs. degree of immediacy in help offered, nature of aid, and others. He pointed out that the aid is mainly in the form of self-help; programs which are implemented either directly with fund:pyttinto the economy in programs or by matching food stuffs for repaying help by the aided in projects in 
their country, also of a self-help 
nature. 
Sondej cited statistics of im­balance in distribution of resources. as in the consumption of !10 percent of the materials by a mere 20 percent of the populatioo. 
The present technology can theroretically support 33 billion people, yet of the earth's 4 billioo, only one third lives above the poverty level. Such injustices call for humane action, Sondej said 
The Fund hopes to do its part to alleviate this imbalance. 

students and farulty members of the University. 
A stock brokerage commission will be charged on all purchases and sales to simulate an actual stock transaction. The commission rates will be those actually used by brokerage firms. These rates have the effect of making the com­mission on a lower priced stock higher than that on a higher priced stock. The canmission schedule will be pa;ted at both locations of the Mock Stock Market, the Old Business Buiklding and LaFor­tune. 
Market quotations used will be the latest available rurecuy from the New York Stock Exchange and 
March 14, all accounts will be dosed unless previoosly done so by the participant and capital <money) gains recorded. 
"We don't want people to be scared away by complicated terms. All that is really involved is going to one of the centers, buying the stock you're interested in, watching its progress and then selling if it drops and recording your gains if it goes up.", Curtis explained. 
"The Market offers a great opportunity to students of all majors. not only business, to get an idea of how the actual Stock Market operates,", said Curtis. 
The ho~rs for the Mock Stock Market w1ll be from 10:00 a.m. to 
3:00 p.m. at the old Business Building and from 11:00 a.m. to 
1:00 p.m. in the main I obby of La Fortune. F<r further information, call Jed Curtis, 277-0130. 
SPRING BREAK TRIP TO 
MONTEGO BAY 
JAMAICA 
ROUND TRIP VIA AIR JAMAICA FROM DETROIT 

~DAYS, 7 NIGHTS AT LUXURIOUS MONTEGO BAY HOLIDAY INN MARCH 22-29 ·$332 per person $50 DEPOSITS DUE BY FRI. FEB 1~! 
CALL 272-9895 OR STOP BY S.U. TICKET OFFICE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. SPONSORED BY ST. JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY 
MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES * 2 FILMS 
* 
BOOKSTORE 

* 
LIVE FLOOR SHOW 


1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
Now $3.99 

Enter the 


?E-1026 


---------------------------------------------------------,
~~­

the observer 

Free University deemed success 
by Ken Girouard Staff Reporter 
Response to the new Student Government-operated Free University has been good, Project Director Ralph Pennino disclosed yesterday. "So far, it's been very successful," Pennino stated. ''Close to 100 people have signed up for the fourteen courses now being offered." 
Pennino said that today is the last day to sign up for the original fourteen courses. Registration is still under way, and anybody in­ten~ted in teaching or taking any of the courses is asked to call the Student Government offices at 6111 and leave their name and number. Anyone registering today for the courses may do so from 9 a.m. to 1 
p.m. and from 2:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the Student Government offices on the second floor of LaFortune. 
Pennino also announced the ad­dition of seven new courses to be offered at the Free University. They are: AM Radio and Americana-1956-1974-John 
Grizzard 
In depth history ci rock and roll, the Socratic boogie, and JrOphets of beat America, as essence and reflection of American pop culture. 
People with large collection of dated albums particularly en­couraged to join. As Dylan would say regarding class size--Love minus zero-no limit. 
Liberation Through Raquetbaii­Chris Thompson Enrollment will be restricted to 
females.  Students will  learn  
creative  expression  through  
raquetball  as art form.  

(;Jitter Rock: The Decline and Fall of tht> Agt> of Dt>cadence--Tim Powt>ll 
A survey into the history and music of the glitter era. Evolves around David Bowie, Lou Reed, American weirdos, Mott the Hoople and Roxy Music. The relation between society and the counter-glitter will be discussed. 
The Science of Creative ln­telligotce--Rob Carsello 
Simple and easy survey of the origin and nature and expression of creative intelligence in in­dividuallife and the life of society, including an analysis of a practical technique of developing creative intelligence. 
'Jazz at the Nazz' 
Tonight's edition of "Jazz at the Nazz" will feature the NO Jazz Rand. The time is 10 p.m. in the basement of LaFortune. 
WANTED 

Need ride to Univ. of Illinois, Feb. 14 & 21. Call Don, 1684. 
Several students need people to make conversation with us in Spanish, very little tutoring. Call 259-7753 about 9 pm. 
Need ride to or from NYC or Long Island sometime between Feb. 7­
21. Call Ted. 289-1775. 
Wanted: housekeeper, part-time. 272-4894. Top Dollar. 
FOR SALE 

1 pr. Head Killys with Saloman bindings. Raichle boots, Scott poles. Call Dan at 234-5200. 
1 pair AR-6 speakers, like new. Asking $139. Call 6801. 
Garrard turntable. Electrophonic receiver, Realistic 1,000 speakers. $250.00. Phone 8709. 
Beginner's camera outfit for sale: Mamiya Sekor 500 TL, 50 mm f2, 500 mm fB telephoto and 2x, Sollgor teleconverter. All cases Included. $320.00 Phone 8709. 
Begiruting and Intermediate interested in going professional. Foosball--Terry Salazar--Dr. Foos Simple Cooking--Pat McLaughlin 
Introductory course in the art of playing foosball. Covers the basic The tension s of being SBP have elements of play <goalie and obviously shown. This course will 
forward). Seminaronce per week. teach the basics in cooking with Advanced techniQues for those special guest lectures on tre art of 
r------~~------­
i
: \ 
You can do it, too. So far over 550,000 other people have done it. People who have different jobs, different lOs, different interests, different educations have completed the course. Our graduates are people from all walks of life. These people have all taken a course developed by Evelyn Wood. a prominent educator. Practically all of them at least tripled their reading speed with equal or better comprehension. Most have increased it even more. Think for a moment what that means. All of them-even the slowest-now read an average novel in less than two hours. They read an entire issue of Time or Newsweek in 35 minutes. They don't skip or skim. They read every word. They use no machines. Instead, they let the material they"re reading determine how fast they read. And mark this well: they actually understand more, remember more, and enjoy more than when they read slowly. That's right! They understand more. They remember more. They enjoy more. You can do the same 

,.....------SCHEDULE OF FREE MINI-LESSONS---------. 
You'll increase your reading speed 50 to 100% on the spot! 
THIS WEEK ONLY 
FREE READING D~CS LESsa-..5 
at 4:00pm and 8:00pm 
at THE CENTER Frn CGJTINUING EDUCATION on The Notre Darre Campus 
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 
____,........-...-......--··-----------------------------------------------,-··----J 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES 

"YOU'VE GOTTA HAVE HEART" CHARITY DANCE, SAT. FEB 8TH, 9:30 PM til 12:30 AM. DENNIS BAMBER QUARTET. CHRIST THE KING SCHOOL GYM, U.S. 31 NORTH AND DARDEN, SO. BEND. SPONSORED BY SOCIAL AC­TION, CHRIST THE KING CATHOLIC CHURCH. FREE REFRESHMENTS. ADMISSION $3.50 SINGLE, $7.00 COUPLE. TICKETS: MARY FREL • 272­4495. 
ND-SMC Council for the Retarded: meet at Logan Center, 7:15 Wednesday night, tor the ND· Michigan St. Basketball game. More info . Kevin, 289-3408. 
Casting for new smash musical "Kathy Reilly," call Ron, 232-7766. 
Money?? Morrissey Loan will lend up to $150 for 30 days, 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune, daily, 11:15 to 12:15. 
Car problems? Come to Hoffman Bros.• Eddy at Madison. Wholesale prices to N D-SMC students, faculty, staff do-it-yourselfers. Repair service also available. Since 1929. 234-0191. 
Join our North East Day Care parent cooperative. $15 a month plus 4 hours parent participation per week. 9-5, 233-2233. 
Men-Women! Jobs on Ships! No experience required. Excellent pay. worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $3.00 for information: SEAFAX, Dept. g-13. P.0. Box 2049, Port Angeles, Wash. 98362. 
California Club Organizational Meeting, Wednesday nite, February 5, 6:30p.m., Room 1-C, LaFortune Student Center. In­formation on club activities and plane flights. All interested Californians please attend. 
Please return formal dresses (pink, off-white). Belongs to younger sister. Room 200, 7879. 
Fred Graver plays "How Could not Miss a Girl Your Size?" Friday nite . midnight · at the Nazz. 
1955 Gibson Les Paul 1929 national resonator guitar. Expert repair service. Discount on strings. Sunflower Music Shop, 632 Portage Ave. 

FOR RENT 
503 W. Jefferson duplex. 3 rooms, second floors. Gas heat furnished. 289-6307. 234-0596. 
Graduate student needs apartment mate. 1 room tor each, con­veniently located, reasonable rent. Call 232-0030 after 6 pm for details. 
Four large houses in excellent condition for rent. Within '12 mile of campus and furnished. Leases run from June 1. 1975 to May 31, 1976 at $300 per month (utilities not in­cluded). Interviews this Sat and Sun (Feb 8 and 9). Addresses are 1120 Lawrence, 1018 N. Eddy, 1034 
N. Eddy, and 1126 N. Hill St. Call 233-2613 after 4 and before 11 pm. 
Share house, 1013 ND Ave. $50 and utilities. 288-3408. 
Furnished apartment, 2 people, 2 bedrooms, living room, kitchen, bath, all utilities. Near ND. 272­6174. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: at Nickie's Fri nite . Over­coat and wallet. Please call John, 282-1039. Reward. 
Pennino stated that registrationItalian cooking. 

for these new courses will be this Basketball as Cosmos-Bill Thursday and Friday.
Responding to accusations,

Principe 
Pennino said, "A lot of people The study of flow and motion in hvave been wmdering if this thing 
basketball technique under the is a joke. It is not. The Free 
influence of Wild Turkev. University is for real!"
--·-·---l It Sounds Incredible 
--BUT EVELYN WOOD GRADUATES CAN READ 
THE EXORCIST IN 58 MINUTES 
At That Speed, The 403 Paps Come Acruss W"dh More Impact Th1n The Mowie. 

thing-the place to learn more about it is at a free speed reading lesson. 
This is the same course President Kennedy had his Joint Chiefs of Staff take. 
The staff of President Nixon completed this course in June 1970. The same one 
Senators and Congressmen have taken. 
Come to a Mini-Lesson and find out. It is free to you and you will leave with a better understanding of why it works. One thing that might bother you about your reading speed is that someone might find out how slow it is. The instructors at the Evelyn Wood Reading Oynamics Free Speed Reading lesson will let you keep your secret. It's true we practice the first step to improved reading at a Mini-Lesson and we will increase your reading speed on the spot, but the results will remain your secret. Plan to attend a free Mini-Lesson and learn that it is possible to read 3·4·5 times faster. with comparable comprehensivn. 
Lost: South Dining Hall. Cig. lighter. engraved with map of Germany. Please call Mark, 277­1560. 
Lost: circular medal on chain at gym no. 4 at ACC. Tues. Jan 28. Call 3191. 
Lost: one blue stocking cap on North Quad on Thursday. Call Tim, 8977. 
Lost: 8ft. blue and white knitted scarf. Call 3694. Reward. 
Found: pr. of glasses (brown). Call Bill, 8697. 
Found: set of keys on ND Ave. Opposite Lib. Call 8428. 
PERSONALS 
The countdown is over and the day is come for the birth of Murph. Happy Birthday, Marilyn from 219. 
My lambs: Congratulations on your en·gagement! Welcome back to the fold. 
Your loving father, J.C. 
Wednesday, February s, 1975
the observer

8 
---=--­
Big week for Irish, MSU tonight 
by Greg Corgan Sports Editor 

Until tournament time, if Notre Dame gets an NCAA bid, the most crucial week for Irish basketball begins tonight when the Spartans of Michigan State arrive for an 
8:10 contest. Saturday, the South Carolina <;amt>cockscome to town and Monday the Irish entertain the Air Force Academy Falcons. 
In the mean time, if there is to be a "tournament time" for Notre 
Dame  this  season,  wins  against  
MSU and  USC  are  no  less than  
essential.  

"This is a big week," said ND head l'oach Digger Phelps. "With Michigan State Wednesday and South Carolina Saturday, we've got to have it this week." 
As far as tournament con­siderations are eoneerned. tonight's game with Michigan State presents a big opportunity for the Irish to improve their chances. The Spartans are currently 12-5 overall and 6-4 in the Big Ten, only a game behind Purdue and Minnesota. MSU is even odds to finish in the second spot and an Irish win may impress the NCAA selectors. 
But, as with most things, win­

ning will be easier said than done. The Spartans have won their last four games in a row including a 101-63 thrashing of Ohio State in Columbus Monday night. 
"Michigan State is hot," said Digger. "They clobbered Ohio State Monday night and that was 
down there. I think they're the second best team in the Big Tl'n although their record doesn't in­dicate it." 

The Spartans big man is 6'7" ~enior Lindsay Hairston who mans the center position, and as assistant coach Dick DiBiaso says, "Hairston gets the ball about 40 times a game, and he'll pass it off maybe twice." After Monday's game, Hariston's average has dipped just below the 20 p.p.g. mark, but that, more than likely, is due to the fact that Terry Furlow's has just risen above the 20 point level. 
Furlow is a 6-5 junior forward who has scored 63 points in his last two games. Saturday against Illinois Furlow had 27 points and against Ohio State he hit for 36. The rest of the Spartans helped out somewhat as MSU canned 20 of their first 31 shots against the Buckeyes. 
Joining Hairston and Furlow in the starting lineup are 6-1 senior Peter Davis and 5-9 junior Benny White. The other forward is freshman Jeff Tropf who first started against Indiana when ten members of coach Gus Ganakas squad walked out before the game. Tropf has been in the first five ever since. 
That incident may have been a blessing in disguise for the Spartans because, since then, Michigan State has been 7-1,losing only to conference rival Min­nesota, three weeks ago. 
For the Irish, the big question is still Adrian Dantley, and whether the nation's second leading scorer will be able to play after suffering a lacerated eye and broken nose in Saturday's game against Xavier. "We don't know yet," explained Digger. "We won't know for sure until tomorrow night before the game." 
Dantley, however, has been practicing all week sporting a mask that covers his nose and extends above and below his eyes on either side. He is expected to see action. 
To hold off the Spartans, A.D.'s 
31.1 points may come in handy, but Phelps wants some off-the~ourt help. 
"The students have got to do it for us this week," he said. "They've got to make it happen. They have to tear this place apart 
for us tonight and on Saturday Undefeated Pangborn I seems to 
afternoon. We need it this week.''
by Frt"d Herbst 

have the League III crown in hand 
while Holy Cross II has nailed ND 14th, 18th inSix teams entered the final week down a playoff position. 
of the lnterhall Basketball season 
Tied in the loss column,

with perfect records this past latest hoops poll
Morrissey I holds a slim half game

Sunday. 
lead over Fisher II in League IV.
The winners of the ten leagues as In League V, Howard I is AP Pollwell as the runners-up in each coasting to the title with a 9-o I. Indiana (5) 21).{) 1000

league will participate in the I@
1!>-2 playoffs. 3. LoUIS\'Ille 1!>-1 ~ 
record. Off-Campus V (6-3) is 2 UCLA 
fighting to hold off Off-Campus VI 
4. Maryland 14-3 fi.'il
Led by Mike Bonifer and Frank (5-4> for the League's final playoff !\. Kentucky 1!\-2 fit:!

Allocco, Off-Campus III has ti. North Car St ll-3 49'J
spot. 
1!>-2 41~Keenan I has a lock on the top R Southt>rn Cal 1:~3 ~I 

clinched the title in League I with a ; Alabama 
7-0 slate. Dillon I has a one game spot in League VI. Sl'cond place 9. On-gon 15·~ 353 
lead over Pangborn II for the 10. An'''na St . 17-2 291
Flanner II has sewn up a playoff 
II. Marqu«>tlt . . 13-3 1\l'i

League-s final playoff spot. 
position. 1:!. Nortit Carolina 11·5 14'iWhile both Sorin I and Alumni I 

13 LaSallt lf\.3 llfi are assured playoff berths, Alumni 14. Nolrt> Damf' 11-ti ~7
League VII has been claimed by 
unbeaten Stanford I with Off­13-3 HI
15. TPnnt·~'ef'

I is trying to overtake a one game 
lJ.; :ll Sorin I lead for the championship li. Anlnna 14-4 I~
Campus VI taking the playoff Hi Cit> m»>O 
berth. 
IR. Cr~~ghton !'-'I I;Cavanaugh II and Zahm I are 19. Rutg~r.; IH H 
currently tied for the lead of of League II. 

.!0. Pl'lln I+~ r;

Women's team League VIII with 5-1 records. In League IX, Grace IV (4-1)drops first two holds a half game lead over St. 
Ed's I (3-1). Both teams appear to UPI Poll have earned playoff spots. 
I tndlana (40) :!0-0

by Pete McHugh t. UCLA 1!>-Z
Grace I has wrapped up League 

3. Loul!.vllle 15-1 Well, like it or not, yet another X with an unblemished record. 4 Maryland 14-3 '!27 ~-Kenh1cl<y 15-2. :!Oi
Cavanaugh I has clinched a playoff

male bastion has fallen. The Notre 
6. North <'arohna St. 13-3 193
berth with a 7-2 slate. i Alabama 15-2

Dame women's basketball team lfiZ played its first home game and the 
Eight teams will see action as M. Southern Cal 13-3 141 

9 Arizona St. 17·2 IO!lfirst female intercollegiate game the playoffs begin this Sunday. 10. Oregon 15-2 ;!( ever Saturday morning on the Play will continue in the double 11. North Carolina 11-5 ~'ti lt. Marqu~IIP 13-3 tl
main floor of the ACC. Un­elimination playoffs until a 
13. Arizona l:H 15 fortunately, however, the old Irish 14. Oregon St. 11·7 H
champion from each Quad is winning tradition could not take 
determined. The two Quad 15. Clemson 10.7 II 
16. (TIP) Ut-;.Las Vegas l$.3 10

effect as the girls were swamped champions will then meet in a best 16. (Tlf') Notre Damt' IH 10 by a more experienced Toleoo lfr3 9
two of three playoff on March 5 to IR. (TI«') LaSall~ IR. (Tie) Crt>igbton l:H 9
settle the lnterhall basketball

team 5o-31. 
IH (Tit') TPRI!t''I>H 13-) !1 Before a sparse crowd in the championship. 
South Dome, Notre Dame could 
,~---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
never really penetrate the Rockets' tenacious zone dtiense. Junior Mary Clemency and fresh­man Mary Lou Mulvihill led the Irish attack with eleven and nine 
I CAFE de Ia Nuit I 
points respectively. The defeat was the women's 
t t 
second in as many contests 
t after the bars... t
following a 84-23 trouncing against Michigan State Thursday night in 
t got the munchies? t
East Lansing. The Spartans, ranked second in their division and t t a probable na tiona! tournament team, simply outclassed the 
l TRY THE CAFE'S l
smaller Irish. Mulvihill took team honors with eight points. Irish 
coach Jeanne Earley felt her team : LATE NIGHT CUISINE I
was a bit intimidated by its first competition. "Our biggest problem is confidence. What we oo t t in practice is not what we do in the t featuring: Steak &Eggs t game." 
Whatever they do in practice, 

t Omelettes t
they'll be doing a lot ci it tonight in their final preparation for the first 
f for your late night dining t
cross-roads clash with St. Mary's Thursday night at 6:30p.m. in the 
: pleasure Open 11 :00 p.m. I
ACC. Coach Earley is confident, "We're hoping to outrun them. For one thing, we've got the quickness and the press for them to make errocs." 
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i:l 
IH cagers begin last week 

THE iRISH begin a crucial week tonight entertaining Michigan State, and their crucial question is the playing status of Adrian Dantley. 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
S Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond.( _phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 
~ 'o. 
-~ .--....-~ ... 

~:_:2·--~·.,;_:~~f_ ...; .:·~~--~:· ~~-·~: ·,. 
_·.,. 
··, 

,;__.... :;.,•.t.·•t 
i.-.....'...:!'• 
.-:_ ., ,.. 
............. 

if one man 
_._,. 


b-rgs alittle 
rrore love .... 
THEN THAT MANS LIFE HAS MEANING 
The Crosiers are an Order of Brothers and Priests who see their ministry in light of today's world. If you are interested, call Ed Sellner, O.S.C. at 283-3189. 
Room 327, Holy Cross Hall 

L__________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 







