OD The Inside 
Hesburgh veto ... page 3 Mardi Gras problems ... page 6 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol_. IX., No. 72 Monday, February 3, 1975 
To help alleviate hunger 

Hesburgh calls for Senate lobby 
by Kathy Mills Staff Reporter 

Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, president of the University announced yesterday plans for forming a national anti­hunger lobby to spark government action toward allieviating the world food crisis though a major increase in U.S. food aid. 
The announcement came during the homily of a mass for the hungry held in the A.C.C. 
The Mass was one part of Anti-Hunger Day, held at the Athletic and Convocation Center. Other portions of the day's program included an address by Senator Richard Clark <D.-Iowa) and a rice and tea supper. 
Hesburgh explained that he and others, including John Gardner founder of Common Cause 
Hesburgh explained that he and others, inlucing John Gardner, founder of Common Cause, John Knowles, and Norman Cousins, have decided to establish a regularly organized lobby to act for world peace and against world 
do with our food and our money.

H ESBU RGH: IT is high time we told the government what to
hunger. "This lobby will bring together every American 
who wants to do something about world hunger." toward the hungry, Hesburgh said, "They say we do not feeling the pangs of hunger that they feel." have enough food. Yet they take food and sell it to the
"The government has no food except what it buys from Hesburgh also touched on the idea of sacrifice, en­Americans and no money except what it gets from us by Russians so they can feed their animals." couraging those at the mass to do something sacrificial 
Hesburgh claimed that much American food aid is used 
taxes," Hesburgh stated. "It is high time that we told the during the upcoming season of Lent."I could not 
as an instrument of foreign policy and is sent to countries
government what to do with our food and our money." recommend that in good conscience if I did not also 
which the US wants to influence rather than those that 
sacrifice something. What we sacrifice is between our­According to Hesburgh, the decision to establish such a 

need it most. selves and God but as Christians we should each dolobby comes in the wake of "inadequate answers" from Arguing that a massive emergency aid program was something personally to aid our starving brothers."
President Geralsd Ford to two letters written by possible and acceptable to the American public,Hesburgh He noted that if all Americans gave up one-tenth of whatHesburgh and other religious leaders. 
The first letter, dated Nov. 22, urged the immediate pointed to the precedents of special food aid to Europe to they eat, there would be a superabundance of food in the authorization of an additional 4 million tons in U.S. food prevent mass starvation in the wake of World Wars I and world. "Your being here today," he observed, "can 
II. change your life."
aid "to allieviate present conditions of critical star­vation." The letter recommended that Ford order the "In 1947 when Europe faced disaster President He referred to Jim Ward, Notre Dame student who died shipments under existing congressional authorization in Truman closed the breweries and urged Americans to of an aneurism recently. Hesburgh stated that Ward had order to distribute the food by this summer. save a slice of bread a day to conserve 2.5 million tons of come to him after the November Mass for thehungery,
After failing to receive a reply Hesburgh contacted grain," Hesburgh said. "And the grain waa conserved and said that he was changed by that mass. the White House and discovered the letter had been lost in and sent to Europe." Following the Mass, Senator Clark addressed the the mailing room. He sent a copy of the letter and Hesburgh commended those who attended the anti­crowd. Clark is a member of the Senate's agriculture,received a reply which was cordial but noncommittal. hunger mass and subsequent rice and tea meal, as did Fr. foreign relations, and public works committees, as well as 
Hesburgh sent a second letter to Ford requesting him Frank Gartland, director of the Notre Dame World chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Rural to appoint someone to handle a special emergency aid Hunger Coalition. Development. program for the world's starving but again did not receive In his opening remarks to the day's events, Gartland an answer committing the U.S. to any more-aid. "Now we applauded the people's "heartening support of millions of Proceeds from the rice and tea supper, as well as the 
are going to flex our muscles politically," stressed our brothers and sisters who are starving." offertory gifts from the Mass and a gift of the Notre Dame Hesburgh in his talk to the approximately 2000 people who He went on to explain that the purpose of the rice and Mardi Gras Committee will be sent to CORR, the <lttended the Mass. tea meal was "to give us a chance to identify with the Christian Organization for Relief and Rehabilation, for the people of Bangladesh.
Pointing out inconsistencies in government policy hungry in experiencing their own meager m~al and 
1npa;ition to do a great deal' 
Clark concerned over reduction of US food aid 

by Marianne Schulte 
production coming from the U.S., our effort to try to give the aid to the people t9 help the world food problem.
Staff Reporter 

country has control over the largest who most need it. Initially one's sentiments must be resources monopoly in the world. Stressing the urgency of the situation, communicated to others with whom one"Today in 1975 the world faces the most 
U.S. agricultural technology has spurred Clark appealed that "If we don't move comes into contact, in order to stimulateserious famine since World War II," Iowa the country to the maximum limit of its soon, it's simply going to be too late. It public awareness in the problem. ThenSenator Dick Clark proclaimed yesterday food production, and it is doubtful that any takes three months from the time that the everyone must join together to press hard in an address to participants of the Anti­major breakthrough will show itself in that decision is made until the legislation ac­politically to pressure political leaders toHunger Day program following Father 
respect, Clark argued. tually begins to take effect." increase our food assistance program.
Hesburgh's mass in the ACC. Clark is a 
But even an increased food production Concern has been expressed, Clark
member of the Senate's agriculture, Lastly, Congress should revise the Food 
gives the world no insurance of a more stated, that Americans should first take
foreign relations and public works com­for Peace program so that aid is applied to
equitable food distribution between the care of their own needy citizens before
mittees. the needs of the most hungry people across
affluent and more needy nations, since giving aid to other nations. Clark
"The time is upon us now for the nations the world.
wealthy nations could simply buy up the suggested that in this respect Americans
of the world to unite to assure to all people 
increase. are "somewhat self-centered" and Clark closed his speech with an appeal totheir basic right to be free from hunger 
The senator proposes that the U.S. exaggerate the national situation due to all Americans, saying, "By workingand famine," Clark said. The world food 
should take immediate steps to increase excessive patriotism. together, we can make a significant dif­problem is not comfortable, but is a food aid to starving peoples. He projects The senator proposed a three-part plan ference in this most important universalnecessary issue for eveyone, Clark 
as a long-term goal massive assistance to as to what the average American can do problem."
argued. Due to the inequity of food the agricultural technology of thesedistribution, the problem of hunger is nations, in order that in the future they will greatly dependent upon one's place of eventually be able to provide adequatebirth. 
food supply to its own citizens.

Today there are a half billion people in 
Officers decide hotming
the world who are either starving or Within the next six months, the total suffering from a serious case of shortage of food in the world, over and The Officers of the University women r eli'gious.
malnutrition. However, Clark pointed out above the aid pledged by contributing today will announce the decision Any decision to change the status that the U.S. is in a position to do a great nations, is calculated at five million tons of for housing an increased of Lewis must be approved by thedeal to alleviate this situation. In past food, costing about $1.2 billion. "Here in enrollment of women un­Foundation.
decades the U.S. has distributed ap­the U.S., that figures to be approximately proximately eighty percent of all the food $4 per person," Clark said. "So you can dergraduates for the fall semester. The Officers, who have met for 
The announcement will be made several weeks in Special Com­
assistance in the world. see how embarrassingly little we would at 4 p.m. by Fr. James T. Burt­mittee on the housing shortage,Clark expressed deep concern at the have to sacrifice to correct this great chaell, university provost. haver reportedly rejected thesignificant reduction in U.S. food aid in the malady," with comparatively minor effect One option the officers have option of converting another men's iast ten years. In 1975, the U.S. is only on grocery prices to the American con­dorm to a women's dorm.
considered is the conversion ofoffering one-sixth of the total food which it sumer. 
Lewis Hall from a graduate The Officers have also rejected
gave in 1965. Clark commented that "all too often women's dorm to an un­the proposal by Fr. John Mulcahy, From 1965 to the present year, statistics these food contributions are used for the dergraduate women's dorm, ac­university housing director, toshow a drop in food aid from an annual 18 advantage of foreign policy purposes." 
cording to one administrative make either Flanner or Gracemillion tons of food to three million tons For example, in 1974, over one-half of the Halls women's dormitories, ac­source.
currently projected for 1975 provisions in 3.3 million tons of food aid from the U.S. 
Sr. Maria Garlock, rector of cording to Br. Just Paczesny, vice
the U.S. budget. was sent to Indochina where it was sold on Lewis, stated yesterday that she president for student affairs.
"If ever there were a time for this the open market for cash, which was used had not been informed about any The deCision of the Officerscountry to demonstrate its moral for military purposes. 
final decision concerning Lewis comes in accord with their self­leadership in the world, that time is now," Clark claimed that the food aid was not 
Hall. imposed. timetable. The Special
Clark said. being sent to the nations most in need of it. 
Lewis Hall was originally con­Committee of University Officers"The U.S. is to food, as the Arabs are to However, the Senate Agriculture Com­structed in 1965. by the Lewis had set Janaury 31 as the deadline oil," stated Clark, suggesting that with mittee this month will review the food aid 
Foundation of Florida as a dor­for recommending a solution toseventy-five percent of total world food program, PL480 (Food for Peace) in an mitory exclusively for graduate U~iversity President Fr. Hesburgk. 
Monday, February 3, 1975
the observer 
warld briefs 
MOSCOW UPI -Two rookie cosmonauts, in their 22nd day aboard Salyut 4, Sunday set a Soviet space record for time spent in an orbital laboratory.
Lt. Col. Alexei Gubarev and civilian flight engineer Georgi Grechko surpassed the 22.5 days spent aboard Salyut 1 by the three Soyuz-11 cosmonauts in 1971. 
DENVER CITY TEX. UPI-A heavier than air white cloud of poison gas drifted from a ruptured oil well pumping station across a remote West Texas community Sunday, killing nine persons who could not escape the fumes. 
WASHINGTON UPI-President Ford sent Congress a budget Monday which calls for the heaviest deficit in peacetime history and predicts that national output will shrink again this year, in­nation will intensify and unemployment will stagnate at about 8 per cent through 1975. 
BOSTON UPI -A grass roots effort to make the Warren Com­mission report on the assassination of President John F. Kennedy a central issue in the 1976 presidential campaign was announced 
Sunday.A petition drive to force Congress to re~xamine the killing also was disclosed at the conlusion of a three-day conference. 
an campus taday 
6p.m.-12 p.m., mardi gras 7 p.m., touch dancing, with fran demarko, Iafortune ballroom. 
7:30 p.m. lecture, "an lntrodlctlon to the status of water con­servation", dr. clarence dineen, carroll hall. 
O'Shaughnessy will includes gift to ND 
by Katie Kt>rwin 0' Shaughnessy Hall a million for 
Staff Reporter the Memorial Library, and an 
estimated $4 million to help 
establish an Ecumenical In­
Ignatius A. 0' Shaughnessy , stitute in Jerusalem . 
longtime benefactor ot Notre Fatner Hesburgh said, "Mr. Dame, left $2.2 million in oil O'Shaughnessy's munificent company stock to the University· legacy to Notre Dame follows his in his will, which was made public lifelong interest in Christian Friday. education and this University. He 
O'Shaughnessy, after whoM the was a man of great human warmth O'Shaughnessv Liberal and Fine and a philanthropist of wide vision. Arts :Building was named, died in Notre Dame could not be where it 
November, 1973, leaving 40,000 is today without the support he shares of Global Oil, valued at $55 gavee over the years, starting with per share, to Notre Dame. a gift toward liberal education in 
l.A. O'Shaughnessy, who was 1942 and culminating in the con­called the "King of the Wild­struction of our Ecumenical In­catters", was born in Stillwater, stitute in Jerusalem. We are Minnesota in 1855 and struck it rich deeply grateful for yet another 
in the oilfields of Oklahoma. He example of the kind of generosity organized and became president of which typified his life." Globe Oil fields and Refining The College of St. Thomas and Company. St. Catherine's College, both in St. His financial support of .Notre Paul, Minn., also received money 
Dame began in 1942 with a $100,000 from the estate--St. Thomas $2.2 gift in support of liberal arts. He million and St. Catherine's $1.1 gave more than $2 million for million. 





Acareer in law­

WilhOUIIBW SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the six courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 700 graduates in law firms. banks. and corporations in over 60 cities. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant, we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. We will visit your campus on TUESDAY,FEBRUARY11 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street. Philadelphia. Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
Indiana T. Reg. #AC0035 

Results of poll on new fall calendar to be released 
by Jeff Arndt 
Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame Student Govern­ment is conducting a random survey of student and faculty on the new fall academic calendar 
which marked the earliest start of classes in University history. The results of the poll should be released by the end of next week. 
James Ambrose, director of the opinion study, stated that a computer program arrived at a random sample of 7 per cent of the student body who received the questionnaire. This number in­cluded both undergraduate and graduate students, excluding only those part-time students with two or three credit hours. 
About 37 per cent of the potential respondents live off-campus, corresponding with the . actual percentage of the student body who reside there. This method of selection helps to insure a more accurate gauging of student opinion by the survey. 
A separate poll was also distributed to faculty members. Similar processes were used to obtain a random sample of 20 per cent of the faculty. · 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuoents of the University of Notre Dame .nd St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 



Monday, February 3, 1975 the observer 
Student apathy blamed for Hesburgh veto 
by Robert Jacques Staff Reporter 
Last Wednesday University President Theodore M. Hesburgh vetoed tile Student Life Council's proposed revision of the Univer­sity's sexuality rule. The proposal would have placed into the hands of the hall rectors the con­sideration of cases of sexual misconduct which were not "flagrant, perverse, or repeated after previous warning." 
Paul Conway, a faculty member of the SLC, said that all the members on the council knew that the veto was imminent. He added, "Everyone was fed up with the issue. They passed the best compromise they could come up with." 
Conway stated that the Council was so frustrated, especially during the last two of the four sessions during which the issue was considered, that he doubts a new proposal to modify the present sexual code can come in one of the meetings in the near future. 
He asserted that half of the problem was student apathy. "The SLC was not and is not sure of student body backing. The students don't care. There has been no rallying of support behind a student position." 
Conway stated that if students were to openly express their desire to see the sex code changed, Fr. Hesburgh might be more inclined to compromise. While Conway was uncertain as to whether Hesburgh would compromise on this issue, he cited examples when the President did so. 
These include his consent as a member of the amnesty board not to demand absolute clemency for all draft evaders. "He can reach a compromise if it is in the bset interest of the situation," Conway added. 
Looking to the future, Conway sees a time when student organizations such as the SLC and the student government will have power on the same level as the University president, limited only by the Board of Trustees. "This will only come about," he added, "if the students take interest in student government and life." 
Walter Nicgorski, also a faculty member of the SLC, said, "On the whole, I think the veto was reasonable for Fr. Hesburgh. I am impressed with the reasoning in the veto message. A majority of the SLC agrees with Hesburgh in wanting this Catholic university to uphold a standard in sexual morality." 
He stated that although he was in sympathy with those members of the SLC who favor individual hall jurisdiction, he fully supports the rule as it now stands. "Individual jurisdiction is used as a means of undermini:::lg hall rules. When variations amongst the various dorms develop, there are cries against non-uniform justice. Students would want to see the most liberal policy prevail." 
Nicgorski feels that the SLC has 
injured itself by having spent so 
much time and energy on the two 
proposals only to end in failure. 
"The present sex rule isn't causing 
enough of a problem to warrant 
the attention it has received. The SLC should go on to other problems," he reasoned. 

Fr. Carl Ebey, member of the SLC and rector of Fisher, is satisfied with the current rule and pleased with Hesburgh's ruling and the reasoning behind his ac­tion. Ebey stated taht, "Everyone basically can know that some Christian standards are being enforced on the campus." 
He expressed uncertainty as to whether the issue would come before the SLC again this semester. "That is the rules committee's perogative. Then the council would have to reach a compromise acceptable to Hesburgh." He added that Hesburgh ahd been invited to speak with the council on the matter of compromise, but that he did not respond. 
Arguing against the recent proposal of Student Body President and SLC member Pat McLaughlin's proposal to grant the council the powers to override presidential vetoes, Ebey con­tended that the SLCis only an advisory committee to the president. "The SLC should never be more powerful than the president," he added. 
From the viewpoint of a hall rector, Ebey maintained the same stance. "There will be no change in the enforcement of the rule in Fisher due to the veto. The rule was passed several years ago. It's still the rule today," he concluded. 
In view of the recent attempts of the SLC to amend the existing sexuality code, several rectors were asked if their vikews or in­terpretations of the rule had in any way changed. 
Government restructured 
SMC assembly passes proposal 
by Cathy Busto Staff Reporter 

A proposal to change the structure of SMC Student Government by replacing the four commissioners with a president and two vic~-presidents was passed by the Student Assembly last Sunday, according to Joanne Garret, SMC legislative com­missioner for the Student Affairs Committee. The Student Assembly and the Board of Governors will remain unchanged. 
"Under the commissioners' system, the duties and respon­sibilities were divided up nicely," Garret explained. "But no one person could be pinned down in terms of responsibility," the legislative commissioner added. In the proposed structure change, 
SMC juniors stage formal 
by Kathy Mills staff reporter St. Mary's Junior Class will hold 
a formal dance February 22 from 9 
p.m. to 1 a.m. in the Monogram Room of the Athletic and Con­vocation Center. Talisman will provide the music. 
Beverages will be available at the dance through a cash bar, with drinks priced at $1, beer at $.50, and soft drinks at $.25. 
Tickets for the affair, numbering 150, are priced at $5 per couple, and will be sold on a first come, first served basis. The tickets will be available first to members of the Junior Class. Remaining tickets will then be sold to the rest of the school. 
According to Junior Class President Joan McDermott, ticket sales will begin Monday night at 10p.m. in the LeMans basement. McDermott requested that ticket payments be made by check. 
The formal was organized by McDermott, with the help of class officers Kathy McGuiness, Raquel Piez, and Michele McGowan. 
the president would become the tained. "With the commissioners' chairman of the Student Assembly system, people were not always and the Board of Governors. The sure whom to call in order to get vice-presidents would handle things done," Garret concluded. student affairs and academic The proposed changes must now affairs. be voted upon by the Student Af­
"Under the new system, a per fairs Committee and then, if son can be assured that her needs passed, the SMC Student Affairs will be taken of," Garret main-Council. 
Fresh1nan vote taken 
by Terry Keelan Carroza for the office of the 
Staff Reporter president, and Mary Garrett, also In the third annual Freshman of LeMans, over Joan Miller for Elections of 1975, Saint Mary's vice-president. freshmen have finally picked a The first and second elections leader. One third of the Freshman 
were both declared invalid class turned out to elect a because of improper procedures president and vice-president. The 
during the voting; once because winners are... Cathi Haberkorn of 
two ballot boxes had not been LeMans Hall, who defeated Joan 
properly personed. 
:-N-e~-~;;~~E~~~~~ I 
t t 
't$200 -$500 CASH REBATESt 
1  t  
t  t  
t  t  
t  t  
t  t  
tI  For a better deal on any  new  t :  
t  or used Ford. call Joe, our  t  
t  campus representative,  t  
t  at 232-4736  t  
t  t  
t JOE HAYDEN FORD &  t  

Fr. Eugene Gorski of Howard Hall stated that his had not and added, "Amongst the rectors there has been a clear understanding of Christian guidelines. Those matters in this hall have been regulated by the understanding of those traditional Christian guidelines." 
As to whether the existing rule could be improved upon, Gorski felt he lacked competence to comment on it, though he stated that "most areas in hall life can be improved upon." 
Fr. William Presle of St. Ed's Hall finds no need to change what he considers an already am­biguous rule. He sees any attempt to change it as a motion towards more ambiguity. 
Concerning the rule's en­forcement in his hall Presley said, "It is enforced only with serious 
and flagrant violations."  He ad­ 
ded,  "We  have  had  no  serious  
problems this year."  

Fr. Thomas McNally of Grace Hall found the matter "too touchy" to comment on without time "to think it over and present a written statement." 

TOM'S UNIVERSITY STANDARD 
17993 STATE ROAD 23  272-0083  
CONVENIENTLY LOCATED AT THE CORNER OF  d.~~ 4AT&  
IRONWOOD AND STATE ROAD 23  STANDARD.,. 
ACROSS  FROM  THRIF-T-MART  

COMPLETE CAR CARE 

WINTER CLEARANCE ON TIRES 
10 PERCENT DISCOUNT TO N.D. & S.M.C. STUDENTS 

NICKlE'S 

NOW FEATURING 
POUND CHARCOAL-GRILLED HAMBURGERS 
l LINCOLN/MERCURY I 
t On U.S. 31 in Niles ·• 683-3920 tl 
Serving from 11 :30 a.m. daily
t (3 miles past state line) . 
-----------~----­
the observer Monday, February 3, 1975

4 
•

'Slasher· strikes lD Los Angeles 
LOS ANGELES <UPI) None of the nine victims of a knife-wielding "slasher" terror­izing sections of Los Angeles was drunk or incapacitated although most were physically weak, according to coroner's reports.
The report strengthened the belief that the killer being sought Sunday in one of the most intensive manhunts in the city's history is unusually strong. Victims have been beaten by the "slasher," who then cuts their throats through to the spinal cord. 
Pathological records indicate only one of the first seven victims, most found in the skid row section, had been drinking at all. 
Ht>ports on the latest two victims, residents of middle dass Hollywood apartmens, wt>re not yet available, but tht>re were no indications they wt>re drinking before their deaths. 
The body of Clyde C. Hay, 34, 
the latest and youngest victim, 
was found Friday in his apartment. A post mortem set the time of death between late Thursday and early Friday. 
It was earlier thought he had been killed Tuesday, and police said the time element further added to the mystery. 

lf Hay did not die until Friday, his whereabouts for two days is unknown. His employer, National Cash Register Co., said he was a man of regular habits, but had been missing from work for two days with no word. 
Darby celebrates fifth 
In case you haven't heard, today, Monday, February 3, is a very special day for Notre Dame. Darby O'Gill, man's best friend and University Chaplain's best roommate, is celebrating his fifth birthday today. 
Although this important historical date has not yet been named a national holdiday, a celebration of appropriate proportions has been planned. Fr. Robert Griffin and Darby invite all members of the ND-SMC community to a birthday party tonight, at Darby's Place, during regular business hours. 
All are welcome to wish the birthday boy a joyous occasion, and to share a piece of delicious birthday cake. Also, anyone wishing to liven up the evening and salute the honored guest by providing entertainment is cordially encouraged to attend. 
Use of Washingto Hall limited until repairs are made 
SPRING BREAK TRIP TO 
MONTEGO BAY 
JAMAICA 
hOUND TRIP VIA AIR JAMAICA FROM DETROIT 
I DAYS, 7 NIGHTS AT LUXURIOUS MONTEGO BAY HOLIDAY IN!\ MARCH 22-29 $332 per person $50 DEPOSITS DUE BY FRI. FEB 14! 
CALL 272-9895 OR STOP BY S.U. TICKET OFFICE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. SPONSORED BY ST. JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY 
by Katil' Kl'rwin Staff Hl'porter 

Washington Hall, although still in use for lectures, classes and concerts will not be available for dramatic productions which require extensive and complicated lighting until repairs to the elec­trical system have been made. 
Professor Reginald Bain, chairman of the speech and drama department, explained that Washington Hall's lighting system cannot take the extreme loads and heavy equipment a play demands. "The present electrical equipment s just doesn't meet drama and safPty needs," he stated. 
Bain would also like to see the rigging system which supports hanging lights and sets revamped. "Washington Hall simply needs some work to become a com­fortable and safe place," said Bain. 
Brother Kieran Ryan, C.S.C., assistant vice president of business affairs, stated that deteriorating t>lectrical equipment and in­creasing needs of modern theater, not provided for in older buildings such as Washington Hall, make dramatic productions an im­possibility there in the near future. 
Some improvising of lighting had been tried in recent productions, according to Ryan, but did not mPet with the approval of Board of ll<>alth inspectors. 
Hyan described the stage lighting system of Washington Hall as inadequate for anything but activities requiring only the most basic lighting. He stressed, however, that the hall is quite safe and is being used for classes, as wl'll as lectures and concerts. 
Performances of the upcoming play, "Medea" by the ND-SMC Theater have been switched from Washington Hall to OLaughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's College with only minor difficulties. 
Repairs are now being planned for Washington Hall. A lighting consultant has looked over the 94­year old hall and will make recommendations to the University . The matter of renovations is now before the of­ficers of the University. There will be a review of the whole bwilding, includjng the auditorium. 
One estimate for the electrical repairs, Ryan said, runs from $30,000 to $33,000 . If that much money is going to be spent on the lighting system, he stated, it may be wise to make other im­provements on Washington Hall to make the building as a whole better equipped to handle more activities in the future. 

The autopsy, completed late Saturday, also disclosed he had been beaten before his head was nearly severed. 
The eighth victim was George Frias, 45. His body was found Wednesday, also in a Hollywood apartment he kept. 
The killings began last Dec. 1 and for a period of time the slasher only struck on Wednes­days and weekends. Then his pattern changed and the two bodies were discovered in Hollywood, about a half-mile apart. 
Police denied reports that a convict who escaped from prison last November while serving life terms for slaying five members f a family 16 years ago was among the suspects. They said the convict, Carl A. Eder, used a method different from the Los Angeles slasher. 
Police have established a telephone center to receive calls and tips about the slasher. 
About 500 telephoned tips have been screened since a composite drawing, taken from several i n t e r v i e w s, was released Friday. Based on those tips, the slasher is pictured as a six-footer with long dirty blond hair. 
A psychological profile de­~cribe!;) him as a "sexually Impotent coward, venting his own feeling of worthlessness on hapless derelicts and down-and­outers." 
That profile was developed, ho~ever. before the killings of Fnas and Hay, both described as conscientious and hard­working men. 


IT SOUNDS INCREDIBLE 
BUT EVELYN WOOD GRADUATES CAN READ THE GODFATHER IN 64 MINUTES 
AT THAT SPEED, THE 477 PAGES COME ACROSS WITH MORE IMPACT THAN THE MOVIE. IN LIVING BLOOD, YOU MIGHT SAY. 
lmagme what th1s ab11ity can do for students At 1000 retention' words per mmute (that s three limes faster than you 
If there ever was a t1me to do somethmg about thiS.

readl Evelyn Wood graduates can devour a text 1ts now.
book i1~e Hofstadtler s Amencan Pol111cal Trad1t1on and wrap up each chapter m 11 mmutes Don t goof away another day' 
Th1s means 1nstead of spend1ng 800 hours a year P S If you thmk th1s IS another advertising con-JOb. readmg-!hats what a college freshman does -an take a free Introductory lesson and settle it once and Evelyn Wood graduate spends 170 hours W1thout for all F1nd out 1f we ve pulled the wool over 500.000 
any drop m comprehension' W1thout any drop 1n graduates eyes or we really do have somethmg 
Come to your free introductory lesson! You'll increase your reading speed 50 to 100% on the spot! 
4 pm or 8 pm This Week Only Center for Continuing Education ~ Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Institute 

I I 
r 

'" 
Monday, February 3, 1975
6 the observer 
Overwhelming success 

2500 attend North Quad party
by Bob Mader Staff Reporter 
Approximately 2500 people at­tended the North Quad party held Saturday night in the north dining hall, proving according to Flanner hall president, Frank McGuire, that a "dry party on campus can be a success." 
All of the north quad hall presidents contacted felt that the students in their dorms had a good time and that there is a good possibility of a similar parties in the future. Zahm hall president Doug Cox said the Hall Pre­sident's Council was initially afraid such a party might flop, but due to the success of last Satur­day's party it might be feasible to hnld one once a month. 
Farley's president, Sue Swiatek, stated that the closeness of the dining hall to all the dorms 
a'Wards in 
l'hird year law students, Hobert C. Weaver of Ohio and Michael J. Harvev of Wisconsin 
placed first and second in the 25th Annual Notre Dame Moot Court. In addition to the Dean's award, both eontestants will also receive a cash prize for their performance. 
Presiding over the competition were Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall, Judge William 
E. Doyle, of the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals, and Associate .Justice Mary S. Coleman, of the Michigan Supreme Court. 
The case argued, Lincoln vs. Swt'etwater College and Film ('omJiany, was similar to the eontroversial DeFunis case, in which a student was denied ad­mission to a college solely on the basis of a racial quota system. 
The Notre Dame Moot Court, 
sponsored by the Law school, 
trains young law students in the art 
of appelate advocacy through a 
series of competitive arguments 
presented before a mock court. 
The members of this court are 
By llA\'ID NAGY 

WASHINGTON <U P ll President Ford sends Congress his $349 billion 1976 budget Monday. warning that its peacetime record of $52 billion in deficit spending cannot be avoided ''in times like these." 
The budget faced certain opposition from conservatives dismayed by the red-ink spen­ding. liberals angered by proposed slashes in welfare spending and Democrats al­n·ady fighting some of its key Pnt'rgy and economic provi­sions. 
Undergrads can attend ND Law School classes 

Tom Demko, President of the Pre-Law Society, announced today that undergraduate students may begin to visit classes at Notre Dame Law Sch(;Ol starting Mon­day, February 3. The program began last semester and was considered extremely successful. 
"Many undergrads sat in on more than one class." Demko commented, "and now have a better idea of what a law student must do." 
Participants are not limited to the members of the Society or to any specific year of study. Because of the limitations of space in the classroom, howwever, only five undergraduate student will be allowed per course at one time. Interested students must sign their names on a sheet outside room 101 ()"Shaughnessy at least one day before they want to attend. 
prompted people to walk over. McGuire adde<l that the free ad­mission for north quad residents provided an incentive. 
While the free admission and beverages made the party inviting to attend, it will also tax the hall treasuries. $670 was collected at the door from partiers outside the 
north  quad,  whereas  total  ex­ 
penses for  the evening  were  ap­ 
proximately $1760.  

From this amount $1100 went for renting the facility and for free refreshments, $550 for the band, and another $110 was spent on publicity and police. The hall will pay out the deficit on the basis of hall size; the towers will chop in the most and the smallest dorm the least. 
Earlier last week the HPC went through university channels at­tempting to get a "21" bar set up at the party. The request was 


•

T'Wo ND La'W students rece1ve 
Moot Court contest 
selected from the faculty, local legal organizations, and other third-year law students. 
After successful completion of the first and second year rounds, the highest ranking participants are invited to argue in a semifinal elimination round. Four con­testants, Weaver, Harvey, Patrie. .J. Gibbs of Michigan, and Brian P. 
. TJ.1f •,~ ~>~ 
..; 
Short of Minnesota, advanced to the final competition on Saturday night. 
This year three of these Notre Dame Moot Court representitives competed in the National Moot Court Competition in Chicago, finishing among the top four teams and capturing the highest honors for their written brief. 

i:t=lr· 
' .,. 
J, -~ 
Ford sends proposed budget to Congress 

rejected by Brother Just Paczensy for a number of reasons. The university didn't want liquor served in a public campus facility; it might have created an "armory party" type atmosphere; and the administration also felt the resulting mess and lingering odors would be offensive to students. 
The hall presidents felt the band, Eden Rock, made a big difference in the success of the party. Swiatek said the dancing was "infectious" and even those who stood around the edges of the room eventually ended up dancing. She was also pleased to see the dining hall being "used for more than eating and organic tests." 
Cox said the success of the party was due to its providing "something that's missing here," and McGuire stated that the big turnout "proves there's nothing to do around here." 

ASSOCIATE JUSTICE Mary S. Coleman of Michigan and Thur•~-~~~ Marshall of the U.S. Supreme Court presided over the 25th Annual Moot Court held at Notre Dame. r==:=:=;:;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;l 
Rep. AI Ullman, D-Ore., t'hairman of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, said Sunday it was "highly doubtful" Congress would ap­prove many of Ford's proposed welfare cutbacks, on the one hand, or his increased defense expenditures on the other. 
Ullman was interviewed on NBC-TV's "Face the Nation". 
He disclosed that about $6 billion of Ford's proposed $17 billion in spending cuts would affect welfare programs. 


the observer 

Night Editor --Andy Praschak Ass't. Night Editor --Maggie Waltman Layout --Mike Sarahan, Martha Fanning, Kevin Uniacke, Candy Frankovelgla Copy Readers --Pat Hanifin, Jim Eder Day Editor --Bill Sohn Sports --Greg Corgan, Bill Brink Picture Screener --Albert D'An­tonio Typists --Don Roos. Rick Huber, Karen Hinks, Kathy Grace, Martha Fanning Night Controllers --M.J. Foley, David Rust 
2500 PEOPLE attended the North Quad party Friday night. Music was provided by Eden Rock. 
... who? me? what does that mean? it's 1975 ... i'm a student here, wondering what i'm going to do with my life ... 
A %1entimely­
GJ@minder 

Valentine's Day Friday, Feb. 14 
Remember all your loved ones with thoughtful Hallmark Valentines and gifts. 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
~~ ~ 

, 
Mardi Gras attendance 
Weekend turnoutlmediocre 

SULLIVAN: WE simply are not making enough money. 
Frratum 
The Department of Earth Scienc3s is not facing a complete depletion of its annual budget as had been reported in an article appearing in the Observer, Jan. 21. 
Department Chairman Fr. Michael Murphy stated that 97.2 percent <all but $41) of the allot· ment for the repair of capital equipment was spent during the first semester. This allotment is only one item of the whole deparmental budget which is otherwise "in good shape," ac­cording to Murphy. 
Speedwagon coming to Morris Civic Center 
The rock band R.E.O. Speed· wagon will appear in c.onc~rt at the Morris Civic AuditoriUm on Saturday, March 1, at 7:00p.m. 
Pete Kernan, South B~nd representative of Sunshme Promotions, announced that tickets for the concert will go on sale Monday, February 3 at . the Student Union Ticket Office, Morris Civic Box Office, and Boogie Records in College Square , Mishawaka. 
Tickets are $5.50 in advance, or $6.50 the day of the concert. All tickets are general admission. 
Mardi Gras Chairman Dan Sullivan has announced that free frisbees will be given away to the first 100 persons entering Stepan Center between 7 and 8 p.m. and again between 9 and 10 p.m. today. 
Sullivan explained that the give­away is intended to stimulate the sagging attendance at this year's Mardi Gras. "The crowd was mediocre Friday and Saturday, and very poor Sunday," he stated. 
"We simply are not making enough money," Sullivan warned. _"We have $25,000 worth of bills to 
It was tne \<.in' . 
-,.,.,e ol rna ..
tin • d cruistn. 
out an going stea~'/nd p\aytn ~t cool. It was tne tirne ol 
your \ile. tne tirne ol American 

February 4 and '5 
Three shows each night: 6, 8, 10 
Engineering Auditorium 
Admission one dollar, Cinema 75 patrons free 

:J,.iJa'J, :Jet. 14 
A. Assorted Chocolates 
B. Fancy Heart C,D. Red Foil Hearts 

HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Monday, February· 3, 197~ 
the observer 
LOUIE'S 

Open at 5:00 daily Foosball Tournament Every Wednesday at 7:00. 16-ounce Beer SOct 
GREAT PIZZA & BEER 


* 
2 FILMS 
BOOKSTORE

* 
CLASSIFIED RDS 
WANTED 

Need ride to or from NYC or Long Island sometime between Fet> 7-21. Call Ted, 289-1775. 
Several students need people to rnake conversation with us in Spanish, very little tutoring_ Call 259-7753, about 9: Oil pm 
FOR SALE 

1 pr. Head Killys with Saloman bindings. Raichle boots. Scott poles. Call Dan at 234-5200. 
Pair of Dynaco 825 speakers. l'/2 yrs old. $120. 233'-3495. 
NOTICES 

A weekend for those who have interest in A Life of Service­Prayer. Feb 7-8-9, Old College. Sign-up -Campus Ministry Office, 103 Library. 
Sewing. mending, coat shortening, etc. Experienced, reasonable. 255­5236 after 6 pm. 
Money? Morrissey Loan lf'ill lend up to $150 for 30 days, 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune, daily. 11:15-12:15. 
Responsible students desire to rent motorhome for 10 days {March 21­
30) tor trip to Florida. Will pay welL Call Trace, 234-1889. 
Car problems? Come to Hoffman Bros., Eddy at Madison. Wholesale prices to N D-SMC students, faculty, and staff do-it-yourselfers. Repair service also available. Since 1929. 234-0191. 
Join our North East Day Care parent cooperative. $15 a month plus 4 hours parent participation per week. 9-5, 233-2233. 
Whoever took the purse from the ACC last Tuesday night: Please return the drivers license, LD., checkbook, etc., since they are 
worthless to you but important to me. Donna, 4047. 
Casting for new smash musical "Kathy Reilly" . call Ron. 
Roundtrip flight to Los Angeles over Easter break. Sponsored by California Club. Price around $150. Call Chip Cl itheroe, 288-7733 or Larry at 289-2757. 
. Men-Women!! Jobs on Ships! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide traveL Perfect summer job or career. Send $3.00 for information. SEAFAX, Dept. G 13, P.O. Box 2049, Port Angeles, Wash, 98362. 
Ski trip to Crystal Mt., Mich., Feb 8 & 9. $36 includes lifts, lodging, food and entertainment. Meeting for all interested Mon., Feb. 3, at 7:00, Rm 1-C, LaFortune. More info 6811 or 6856. 
California Club Organizational Meeting: Wednesday night, February 5, 6:30 p.m., Room 1-C, LaFortune Student Center. ln­lormation on Club activities and plane flights. All interested Californians please attend. 
SIGN-UPS FOR SPRING BREAK TRIP TO MONTEGO BAY, CALL 272-9895 (EVES) OR STOP BY STUDENT UNION TIX OFFICE. SPONSORED BY ST. JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY. 
FOR RENT 
Furnished apartment, 804 NO Ave., $80 mo. utilities included. 287-8282 after 9. 
503 W. Jefferson duplex. 3 rooms, second floors. Gas heat furnished. 
289-6307' 234-0596. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found: pr. of glasses {brown). Call Bill. 8697. 
PERSONALS 
JOanne!! It's your turn to re~eive your very own personaL I'd write out a full formal ad but after one year I still can't spell Ten-&?!+{?&+:!! 
It's beginning to look a lot like X­
n1as, 
The Wild Bunch II 
DINTY MOORE FAMILY: we're on to you. 
Joe Hockey Player, made your C)Oal. got your cake, kiss too -what more could you ask for? 
Your devoted fan, MAIN-SQUEEZE 
Dear Nort: Happy 19th. May we spend many more pleasurable years together_ 
Love you, Earl of Ice 

-
8 the observer Monday, February 3, 1975 
Irish smother Xavier; Dantley hurt 
Sopb forward suffers lacerated eye and deviated nasal septum in second half collision 
by Bill Brink 
Unlike most of their games this 
season, the biggest problem for the 
Irish during the closing minutes of 
play was not winning the game. 
Their biggest problem, in fact, was 
not l.'ven on the court. 
As Notre Dame was taking care 
of the visiting Xavier Musketeers, 
sailing to a 96-58 romp, the trainers 
and doctors were taking care of the 
Irish's super forward, Adrian 
Pantley. Dantley was injured late 
in the gamP when he collided with 
Xavier's Paul Deidrick ua­
d(•rnPath the ND basket. 
With a little over seven minutes 
ldt in thP game A.D. received the 
hall to the left of the Irish basket 
and wht-eled to his right to drive 
along the baseline. He ran head­
first into Deidrick. butting heads 
or possibly calching an elbow from 
the Musketeer defender. Dantley 
was forced to retire to the ND 
locker room where he received 
sevt-n5titchesover his right eye. He 
was then taken to have X-rays 
takt•n on his nose. 
Doctors determined that the 
young star suffered a deviated 
nasal septum. but that it seemed to 
be in good alignment. Dantley 
spent Saturday night in the in­
firmary. He is expected to par­
ticipate in practice this week, but 
the decision as to whether he'll be 
ready for Wednesday night's 
contest with Michigan State will 
not be made until early Wednesday 
afternoon. 
"I thought maybe he faked to the 
inside and then went back to the 
baseline." said an obviously 
concerned Digger Phelps after the 
game. "The kid didn't take the 
fake ant:l they butted heads." 
Fortunately for the Irish, the 
injury occurred long after the 
Musketeers had any chance to take 
advantage of Dantley's absence. 
A.D. left the game withthe Irish ahead 71-47 , and Coach Phelps had long since gone to his bench. In fact he probably used more 

combinations Saturday than in any previous game this year. 
The game started slow, both teams being bothered by mistakes and cold shooting. It was not until 
17:41 of the first half that the Irish opened the scoring on a layup by Dantley. Another drive by A.D. and two quick buckets by Dwight Clay gave Notre Dame a s-o lead, but the Musketeers found the mark and fought to within one point, 13­12 at 11:55. 
That was a close as they came, however. as the Irish gained momentum and employed a harrassing press that disrupted Xavier's game and forced them into a number of costly mistakes. Dantley. meanwhile, was un­stoppable, hitting layups and short jumpers. and connecting on five of six free throws en route to his 19 first half point total. 
Phelps began substituting early, and received encouraging per­formances from freshmen Dave Batton and Don "Duck" williams, who contributed seven and six points respectively in the first half. With the press completely bewildering Xavier, the Irish ran up a 54-25 halftime lead. 

"The first seven or eight minutes of the game were pretty close," said Digger. "We took our press off and when we do that we're not aggressive defensively. We lost · our momentum. They began to come back, so we felt we had to press them." 
"But we had a good first half," he added. "Anytirr.e you are leading by 25, it's a good half." 
The Irish continued their domination and extended their lead in the second half, much of the contribution coming from the reserves who have seen little action this season. Every member of the squad played and scored, to the delight of the 10,080 fans in the ACC. Despite the lopsided score, ND did not look real sharp, com­mitting 24 turnovers. 
Before he left, Dantley had 23 points, nine points below his season average. With North Carolina State's David Thompson scoring 38 in a losing effort against Maryland 
yesterday, Dantley has probably relinquished the nation's scoring lead to the Wolfpack forward. Dantley now, however, has 1,042 points in his college career, the seventh player in ND history to better the 1000 mark and the first to do it as a sophomore. Only two 
h~· Bob Kisst>l 
When you've got it, you might as well flaunt it. 
The Irish hockey team finally broke the jinx of the Denver Pioneers, winning their first game ever in the mile-high city. Saturday night the Fighting Irish handed Denver a 4-o blank. The last time the Pioneers were shutout was by Michigan 'J'ech. Friday night Notre Dame again continued its stream of defensive errors resulting in a 5-3 loss. 
The combination of Irish defensive mistakes in their own zone and the excellent goal tending of Bob Lieg, .spelled loss for Lefty Smiith and his youthful squad Friday night. 
The Pioneers' opened up the game's offense exactly four minutes into a very long period, due to ice repairs and fisticuffs. The ND defense gave wing Jim Miller one too many chances from in close on John Peterson. Peterson made the initial save on Miller's five foot wrister, but two rebounds later Miller hit the upper corner of the net to the glove side, for a 1-o 
Denver lead. 
The Irish really were the Fighting Irish Friday night. Brian Walsh and Campbell settled their dif­ferences with fists at 4: 18 of the first period. Both sat out Saturday's contest. Geoff Collier joined Walsh for an early shower at 10:55 of the closing periodand was also on the bench Saturday. 
The Irish quickly evened the score early in the second period, on the power play advantage. Pat Conroy skated into the Denver zone and passed to Alex Pirus, waiting on the point. Pirus pulled the string from 60 feet, Lieg made the initial save, but Clark Hamilton was there for the rebound goal at I :50. 
Denver responded at 4: 12 of the third session with their fifth tally, to put the game on ice. ND ended the game's offense at 13:43 of the last period on 4-3 man advantage. Pat Conroy beat Lieg, with the assist going to Alex Pirus. 
"If there could be an exact opposite of Friday night's game, it was tonight's <Saturday)," explained Smith. "The defense played well all night, especially in front of our net. The offense was able to hit the open man much better, giving us good shots on net." 
"Definitely the turning point of the game was the killing of that two-man advantage for Denver," continued Smith. "The defense was blocking shots, as well as the forwards up front, Olive, Karsnia, Guisti, and Hamilton." 


ADRIAN DANTLEY writhes in pain after colliding with Xavier's Paul Deidrick. Dantley suffered a nose injury and took seven stitches in his right eye. Dantley's status for Wedensday's MSU game is 
questionable. other players in collegiate basketball history, Pete Maravich of L.S.U. and Fly Williams of Austin Peay have exceeded the 1,000 point mark as a sophomore. 
Musketeer coach Tay Baker praised all the Irish ballplayers, but singled out Dantley as the standout for Notre Dame. 
"Adrian Dantley does so many things well," said Baker. "He makes great use of his body, shoots well, and gets up and down the court quick. We probably did as wdl as we could against him defensively." 
Meanwhile, Phelps and the Irish must wait on a daily basis to see how Dantley progresses. They are hoping he will be ready Wednesday night when the Irish host the Spartans of Michigan State. 
ND icers split with Denver 
The turning point of the game Lefty referred to was a stretch in the second period, 12:02 to 16:02, when the Irish were down anywhere from one to three skaters. Tim Byers and Dave Bossy were whistled off at 14:02, putting ND at a two man disadvantage. 
The wealth of ND infractions was not the only feature of the second period. Senior Pat Conroy scored the winning goal at 7:45. Conroy took a pass from Pirus in the slot and scored from 10 feet out. An assist was also given to Clark Hamilton, but not to 
Dick Howe who hustled well in keeping the puck in play at the point. 
Again the shots attempted (47), stopped by the defense (10), off the mark (19}, and stopped by Moher <18), showed the excellent work of the Irish, never giving in to seemingly the hopeless situation of an endless penalty-kill. 
Jack Brownschidle gave Notre Dame an insurance ,--------------------------­
power play goal at 1:50 of the final period. Pirus slipped the puck •to Brownschidle, who beat Lieg on an unscreened bullet from the blueline. Assists were given to Pirus and Kevin Nugent. 
Mark Olive made the game 3-o, with much thanks to the good hustle of Nugent. Karsnia flipped the puck down ice into the Denver zone and Nugent was the first back. Nugent passed to Olive alone in front of the Denver net. The junior from Richfield, Min­nesota scored at 8:43. 
The final goal came at 15:31 on a power play breakaway marker from the stick of Alex Pirus. Pirus and linemate Hamilton skated in on Lieg un­checked, with Pirus taking the pass from Hamilton and scoring for the 4-o final total. 
Where do you start with the play of freshman goalie Len Moher? Well, Pioneer coach Murray Armstrong said, "That kid <Moher) was unbeatable outthere, even though our kids played their hearts out." 
The Denver fans also appreciated the efforts of Moher with an assortment of awards-popcorn cups, hotdogs, and an uncooked chicken. 
Notre Dame is now 9-14-1 (12-l5-1overalJ), which puts it in seventh place in the WCHA, led by red-hot Minnesota who swept Colorado College this past weekend. Other games around the league saw Michigan Tech sweep Michigan State, Michigan and Minnesota-Duluth split, and Wisconsin win one and tie one with North Dakota. 
Next opponent for the Irish is a home series with the Michigan State Spartans, a team well-known for their physical style of play. 
Swi1n1ners unbeaten; take weekend pair 
by Ernie Torriero 
There are some pretty exciting things happening at the Rockne Memorial Pool these days. Coach Dennis Stark is leading a bunch of talented and spirited swimmers toward a goal that every athelete dreams about, an undefeated season. By posting two wins this weekend, the Irish swim team is now 7-0. Yes, there is an un­defeated team on campus and yes, it might be worth going over to the Rock to find out what is going on. 
Friday, the Domers downed Wayne State of Detroit, 68-46, in a late afternoon match at the Rockne Pool. Notre Dame finished first in the opening six events. But Wayne State finished strong, winning five out of the last seven events. 
The Irish burst out of the starting blocks, winning the first event, the 400 Yard Medley Relay, 
quite handily with a time of 3:50.1. The onslaught continued until Wayne State's Mark Makkonea easily won the 200 Yard Butterfly, posting a time of 2:10. But the
Wayne State drive proved too 
little, as the Irish came up with enough second and third place finishes to secure the meet. 
Saturday, Notre Dame repeated Friday's performance by dumping Marshall University of Hun-­tington, West Virginia, 68-45. The 
Irish again posted six straight first place finishes. In all, six meet records were broken, three by Notre Dame. 
The meet was highlighted by some great individual efforts. Freshman Fritz Shadley came out of nowhere to nail down second place in the one meter optional diving after having copped third place in the compulsory one meter diving. Captain Jim Kane con­tinued his domination of Notre Dame opponents by nabbing first place in the 50 Yard Freestyle. 
Stark commented on his team's excellent weekend performance saying, "We were about due. We really exploded." Jim Kane echoed his coach's sentiments, "This weekend represented a great team effort. These are the kind of performances that we have been getting all year. It is those second andthird place finishes that help us keep our early leads." 
This week, the Irish take their undefeated mark on the road, traveling to Bowling Green on Thursday night and St. Bonaventure on Saturday af­ternoon. "St. B rivalry. We really get psyched," bellowed one swimmer. But Stark quickly warned, "We have a toughie coming up against Bowling Green first." A little guarded optimism never hurt anyone. 
ND Sports Slate 
Feb. 4 -­
WRESTLING-Wayne State at A.C.C., 7:00p.m. Ft>b. 5 -­BASKETBALL-Michigan State at A.C.C., 8:10p.m. WRESTLING-Spring Arbor at A.C.C., 7:00 p.m. 
Feb. 6 --
SWIMMING-at Bowling Green WRESTLING-at Western Michigan 
Feb. 7 -­
HOCKEY-Michigan State at A.C.C., 7:30p.m. 
Feb. 8­
SWIMMING-at St. Bonaventure WRESTLING-Illinois St., Wheaton, and Wisconsin-Parkside 
at A.C.C., 1:00 p.m. FENCING-Detroit, U. of Chicago, Indiana, Marquette at A.C.C. TRACK-at Michigan State Relays 
BASKETBALL-South Carolina at A.C.C., 1:00 p.m. HOCKEY-Michigan State at A.C.C., 7:30p.m. 





