-., 
'i
At Faculty Senate meeting 
-
Burtchaell cites grade inflation as problem 
by Jim Winters Starr Reporter 

Grade inflation is "a beast of a 
problem" and "deserves some 
explanation and maybe some 
remedies," Fr. James T. Burt­
chaell, University provost, told a 
Faculty Senate meeting Tuesday 
night. 

"I think there's a lot of double 
talk" about grade inflation, 
Burtchaell declared, pounding a 
podium for emphasis. 

"Everybody reads about it, 
everybody is conscious of it, most 
people deplore it." 

But, Burtchaell added, he has 
encountered no "memorable" 
statement of the role grades play 
in maintaining academic ex­.cellence. The provost mentioned ex­
periments in non-grading systems 
which have been attempted at 
other universities, notably Yale. 

But he implied that such ex­
periments actually resulted in 
grading systems-in-disguise or 
were unfeasible at Notre Dame. 

The issue, he emphasized, needs 
more study.. 

"The University would be 
grateful if the senate committee 
took up the whole concept of 
grading," said the provost. 

Burtchaell also issued "a third 
appeal" to the committee to begin 
considering a specific code of 
professional conduct for Notre 
Dame professors. His last such appeal got nowhere, Burtchaell recalled, adding that he still believes formal professional guidelines are desirable. 
"The willingness of any profession to police itself is not strong," said Burtchaell. "We belong to a learned profession and we have standards of con­duct.. .and a commitment to students to live up to those stan­dards. We should go on record saying what our publicly accepted duties include." 
A number of universities, in­cluding Chicago, Harvard, Princeton, Indiana and Marquette, have codes of conduct for faculty members, Burtchaell continued. And he contended, "I think it does us honor, rather than dishonor, to state in a positive or negative way what we require of ourselves." 

A codified-standard would give department chairmen a guideline for measuring the effectiveness of professors, Burtchaell concluded, adding that the performance of all faculty members, tenured and untenured, should be periodically reviewed. 
The competence of professors over age 65 is already reviewed annually. Burtchaell said that is a healthy practice, and added that he supported a senate recom­mendation that the University provide a greater role, perhaps on a part-time basis, for retired professors. Emeritus professors, Burtchaell continued, are a University asset and should be "kept in harness." 

The present guaranteed annual retirement income for faculty-­$5500--is, said Burtchaell, "just terribly, terribly low." 
But Burtchaellsaid that a senate recommendation that the minimum be raised to $7000 would cost $36,000 annually. That money would have to come from somewhere, said Burtchaell, and he could not say from where it should come. 
Burtchaell's appearance before the faculty senate marked the first time in over a year that an ad­ministration official had addressed that body. The provost noted that last year's exchanges between the senate and the administration "were not always imbued with the respect they might have been," and he implied that he hoped his appearance would help improve relations between the two groups. 
Vol. X., No. 60 


PROVOST SPEAKS. Fr. Burtchaell appeared before the Faculty Senate last night, airing his opinions on grade inflation , professorial codes of conduct and retirement benefits. (Photo by Paul Clevenger ) 


Academic Council meets today to discuss next yearS calendar 
by Pat Cuneo remain in effect for two more low seventies is sought "but less Staff Reporter academic years unless amended than 70 days is intolerable." by the Academic Council tonight. 
The stuaent's calendar choice 

The Academic Council will meet Likewise, if new guidelines are set, 
provides only 69 class days. Two 

today to determine the guidelines they will be used in the designing of 
years ago the number of class days 

for next fall's academic calendar. the calendar for the next three 
was also 69. 
years.

According to a recent calendar Student Government Academic survey, 92 per cent of the Notre Commissioner Mike Gassman said 
October break desired

Dame students prefer a mid­he doesn't know what to expect on semester break rather than a post­the Council floor. He plans to Labor Day start. Three thousand Thirty-seven percent of the present a five-page hand-out plusstudents were polled. students polled favored an August an official motion for a newThree all-star interhall A new calendar with a pre-Labor 31 starting date, a week-long calendar and the results of the 
October break with the end of survey.
Day start would affect the 
classes falling on December 21. "It's all up to the council
scheduling of the National Men's
football teams announced Shepherds Conference charismatic In order for this plan to be members and all I can say is that 
by Mary Pat Tarpey meeting, which is tentatively adopted, the conference would we're very well prepared in ad­Staff Reporter planned for the first week in have to be pushed back to an dition to being backed by the September. earlier date. students," related Gassman. 
Elton Johnson, chairman of the Hall Presidents Council <HPC), 
Joe Fiorella, a student
University Provost Fr. James T.

announced yesterday that three all-star football teams have been 
representative to the council, was
Burtchaell pointed out that the

named by the interhall football coaches following the recommendation Outside activities affected 
pleased with the results of the
Academic Council is a body that
by the HPC. 
survey.
proposes guidelines for the

Responding to what they felt was a need for more enthusiasm in the 
University officials have stated 

academic calendar but "the "We wanted to find out just what 
interhall football program, the HPC asked the coaches to choose an 
that outside activities revolve 
::alendar is drawn up by Dr. the students wanted and we think
all-star team. 

around the academic calendar but 
Duggan <SMC President) and the statistics show that we were
According to Johnson, "All the coaches met one night and decided 
confirmation or rescheduling of 
mvself." successful," Fiorella said. "The
that it would be best if we had a North Quad team and a South Quad 
the Shepherd Conference has not The Provost offered no comment worst thing that could have hap­
team and the girls would have their own all-star team. Sothecoaches 
been made. on the Academic Council's survey. pened would have been a wide
make the list of players which represents what they feel were the best 
This year's calendar resulted However, when asked about his spread in the survey but is clearly 
players for the season." 

from a similar survey taken last stand on the number of school days showed that the students want a
The HPC and coaches have planned matches between the teams 
spring by Student Government. required for the semester, Burt­mid-semester break at the expense 
around An Tostal with the North Quad playing the South Quad and the 
The guidelines set at that time will chaell explained that a range in the
girls team possibly playing a team from St. Mary's. The HPC plans to 
award certificates to the all-stars. 

At an HPC meeting last night, Johnson proposed that the HPC invite the student members of the Student Life Council (SLC) to a future meeting to discuss topics such as their work on the COUL report and HPC work on alcohol guidelines. 
Bob Quakenbush, HPC executive coordinator, listed the tentative hall allotments and the average allotment was $370. The planned allotments range from $125 for St. Joseph's Hall to $575 for Stanford. 
Quakenbush said that all halls had to take a cut on what they requested because of the amount of money available.But the funds should be satisfactory to most, he said. "Hopefully we'll be able to finalize this next week." 
He also noted the HPC analyzed individual hall's plans and needs for the fundsin dealing with the requests. 
During the course of the meeting Johnson informed the council of a letter sent to Fr. James Burtchaell requesting that he speak at a HPC meeting. 
The council also sent a letter to the Indiana University student body president requesting information on their deal with McDonald's to see if a similar promotion could be started at Notre Dame. Johnson ex­plained that last year whenever the Indiana basketball team scored a certain number of points students received a free coke or hamburger at McDonalds. 
on the inside . . . 
A special supplement on The 50 Plus 12 Seminar: 
'A new look at the old sauce' 
see pages 7-10 

of a pre-Labor Day start," Fiorella said. 
Another student representative, John Brosious, said the calendar survey more than adequately served its purpose. 
Two percent satisfied now 
"When only two per cent of the students polled were satisfied with the currently-proposed calendar, we can see the survey was a success," said Brosious. 
According to Brosious, the faculty was pretty even on their calendar views but the students' overwhelming support of a new calendar should be very significant in the final guideline proposals. 
Brosious believes the survey worked out much better than past surveys because it was handled through the halls. 

-~ ----~-----------" 
_2___th:.....:..e...::....____co=-b...:__s_e_r_v_e_r_______:._cw_ed_n_es_da--=-y.o_,_De_c_em_be_r_3_:_,_1,_7s After December 31 
warld briefs 
PEKING-President Ford met with Chairman Mao Tse-tung for nearly twice as long as President Richard Nixon did in 1972. 
The two had "earnest and significant discussions on wide­ranging issues in a friendly atmosphere" for one hour and 50 minutes. 
(See story page 11) 
LONDON-Right to die movements are springing up in some areas of Western Europe spurred on by the controversial Karen Quinlan case in the United States. 
However, in Italy and France the Quinlan case has strengthened groups fighting for a person's right to live. In West Germany, the whole subject is taboo because of memories of Adolf Hitler's mass killings. 
<S.ee story page 4) 
SAN FRANSISCO-A child psychiatrist is exammmg Patricia Hearst to help her "overcome emotional trauma", her attorney Albert Johnson said yesterday. 
He said that is was unlikely that Dr. Elizabeth M. Richards, would be called on as a witness in Hearst's upcoming trial on bank robbery charges. 
CHICAGO-Two youths accosted Theodore Sterling, went through his pockets, and "casually tossed" him to his death over the railing of a Chicago River bridge, police report. 
Sterling's body was found 40 minutes later after witnesses saw the man robbed, beaten and then thrown over the railing by the two youths. 

an campus taday 
9:30a.m.­ sale, ladles of library  notre  dame,  UNICEF sale,  
3 p.m.­ meeting, academlc council meeting In rooms 100-104 CCE  
7 p.m.­ lecture, "plate tectonics" by dr. j. tuzo wilson, director general of ontario science center, room 202, architecture bldg  
7:30p.m.­ american scene lecture series, "the devil and the reality of evil" by dr. jeffrey russell, carroll hall  
8 & 10 p.m.­ film, "state of the union" engineering aud. $1  
8:15p.m.­ concert, student recitals, library auditorium.  

MockConventionspeakers to include Strauss, Riegle 
Robert S. Strauss, chairman of the Democratic National Com­mittee, and Congressman Donald 
W. Riegle, Jr., candidate for the Michigan senatorial seat being vactea oy Phillip Hart, will head a list of speakers planning to attend the 1976 Mock Political Con­vention. 
The convention is scheduled for March 1-7. Invitations have been extended by the Student Govern­ment committee to all announced candidates for the Democratic presidential nomination. 
Strauss, a native of Texas and former chairman of the Hum­phrey-Muskie campaign in his home state, will present the opening address at the convention in Stepan Center. 
He served as national com­mitteeman from Texas from 1968 to 1972 and was elected treasurer of the Democratic National Committee in 1970 and chairman in 1972. 
Riegle has been cited by The Nation magazine as one of the "Two Best Congressmen" in 1967 and by Time magazine last year as one of the top 200 national leaders in America. 
He presently serves as a member of the House Committee on International Affairs with subcommittee work on In­ternational Security and Scientific Affairs. He is the author with T. Armbrister of 0 Congress, a best­selling diary of Congressional life. 
A series of "platform" meetings is currently in progress on the Notre Dame campus, . __.-· . 
Sessions dealing with abortion and bussing legislation have been conducted, and a meeting on "decriminalization of marijuana" is set for 8 p.m., Dec. 4, in the Memorial Library Auditorium. The public is invited. 



IRS plans to increase taxes 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The chief of the Internal Revenue Service said Tuesday the gov­ernment will require employers to increase the amount of taxes withheld from workers' pay­checks after Dec. 31 if no new tax law has been approved by then. 
IRS Commissioner Donald C. Alexander ruled out any tem­porary administrative extension of current tax rates until Con­gress and President Ford re­solve their tax dispute and raised the possibility that Americans' paychecks could shrink in January, then expand again later in the year. 
Alexander said in a speech before the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, "We intend to be understanding when you take good faith ef­forts to accomplish what may be an impossible task," but he said the higher withholding rates would be enforced. 
For a married man support­ing a family of four on an in­come of $15,000, for example, the reduction in his weekly pay­check due to higher income tax withholding alone would amount to $4.73. 
For a single person earning $15,000 a year, the reduction in take-home would be $3 a week. 
And the changes would not include the reduction in pay­checks for people who earned more than $14,100 this year and no longer had Social Security taxes deducted from their checks after they passed that salary level. 
The Social Security tax, which amounts to 5.85 per cent of gross earnings, kicks back in for those people on Jan. 1. 
The reason for the higher withholding rate for federal in-
ERRATUM 
The cost of the special foreign studies tour offered by St. ary's is $1,125 and not $1,625 as reported in yesterday's Observer. 
The Observer 1S published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer !>ession, except during exam!> and vacation periOds The Observer 1S published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and 51 Mary's College. SubscriptiOn!> may be purchased for 10 dollars per !>emester ( 18 dollars per year I from The Ob server, Box Q, Notre Dame. In diana. 46556. Second Class postage paid. Notre Dame, IN 46556 

The WEDGE • Model GR596W • Solid-state Allegro SeriesillAmplifier with 12 watts min. RMS per chan­net (into 8 ohms, 40 Hz to 12 kHz. with no more than 0.5% total harmonic distortion). AM/FM/Stereo FM Tuner with flywheel tuning and Tuning Meter. Stereo Precision Record Changer with Micro-Touch Tone Arm. 8-Track Tape Recorder/Player. Two On Two Matrix. Shown with Allegro 3000 Speakers. Simu­lated wood cabinet-grained Walnut finish. 
MANY OTHER MODELS ON SALE NOW 
NlR11-ISIDE T.V. 
2316 MISHAWAKA AVE. 

(1112 BLOCKS E. OF IRONWOOD DR.)
SOUTH BEND 255-1979 

OPEN DAILY 'TIL 8:00 PM, SAT. 9-5 
come taxes is the temporary President Ford has threat­tax reduction earlier this year ened to veto a tax bill currently as an anti-recession move. pending in the House. The bill 
would extend the temporary
The taxes were written to 

tax cuts and add other changesself-destruct on Dec. 31, and re­in specific sections of the taxvert to the 1974 tax rate. 
law, but it contains no spending 
Most economists, including ceiling. President Ford's top economic advisers, havegenerally decided (*The Observer 1 since then that higher taxes and the resulting reduction of consumer buying power could Night Editor: Winnie Hogan slow the economic recovery. Assistant Night Editor: Chris 
Smith 

Both President Ford and Con-Layout Staff: Debbie Dahrlln­gress agree they want to cut g, Jack D'Aurora, John Paul taxes, but they disagree on how Jones, Bob Brink, Martha to do it. And with a congres-Fanning Thomas Stejskal sional holiday recess looming Day Editor: Marianne Schulte within two weeks or so, time Copy Reader: Ken Bradford for resolving the dispute is run-Editorials: Val Zurblls 
ning out. Sports:· Fred Herbst The President has condi-Typists: Mel Celeste, Nell VIII tioned his approval to an Compugraphic: Hank Van equivalent cut in spending for Dyke any cut in taxes. Congress has Night Controller: Bob Stein-
contended it's impractical to metz set spending ceilings now for a Ad Layout: Mike Miller, Tom b~dget. year which doesn't be-l Walrath J 
gm until June. _ _ 
'******************************~ 
* :
; SENIOR CHRISTMAS FORMAL # 

1:::::::::::::::::::::..:::::::::::::~:::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::;:::;::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.-: 
~ NATIONAL BRAKE SERVICE INC41 
=:~::::::::::::::::;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:.'::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.-=:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.~==:::::::::::::::::::::::::::-~ 
~  Industrial & automotive drum and disc specialists  ~  
, liiiiiiill1::1  23134 Lincolnway West  ~  
i l~  ·  ~  Phone 232-8221 I block west of airport entrance, South Bend  ~~~; ~~~  
»  ~  

CALL NOW FOR FREE INSPECTION 


--~ .o.'­

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~. 


---------~---~~ 
Wednesday, December 3, 1975 the observer
Appointed Alumni Director 

Cackley optimistic about coming year 

by Don Reimer Senior Staff Reporter 
After three months as director of the Alumni Association, John N. Cackley is quite pleased with his job. "I am enjoying it tremen­dously,'' he said of his new position:'because I find that I have renewed acquaintances with many people from my former years here." 
Cackley, who was appointed to the position at the end of Sep­alumni over the next year include foreign tours, and an alumni senate meeting in the spring. They also work closely with the Alumni 
Board.  
A  plan  to  provide  continuing  
education  courses  for  alumni  in  
conjunction  with  the  Center  for  

Continuing Education is presently in the early stages, according to Cackley. "This is. still in the early stages of development, but it is on the drawing board, and hopefully it will be ready in the near future," 

Cackley's personal duties as alumni association director in­clude writing a column for each issue of the Notre Dame Magazine as well as answering some of the many letters from alumni received by the University. 
Travelling around the country to advise and consult with the various alumni clubs is also part of Cackley's job. Cackley and his two chief assistants go out to different sections of the country periodically to visit the clubs. 
to the East, to Pennsylvania and New York where I contacted six alumni clubs," Cackley said. "We do this constantly throughout the year where we think we should go out and try to help the clubs that might need assistance." 
Chicago ND Club 
The Chicago Notre Dame Club, which has the largest membership of 4,000, receives the most at­

"I think we're really set apart in that we have something special that a lot of other schools have envied," Cackley continued. 
Cackley noted that Notre Dame has 55,000 alumni and a total of nearly 350 active alumni clubs. "You can't just say that a certain portion of them do thisorthat or the other. Overall there is this intense loyalty to the University." 
The alumni are important to the University for numerous reasons, according to Cackley. He said the 

tember, brought with him a Cackley explained. returned from a thorough knowledge of the Notre 
t
Dame community. He served as an assistant to the executive secretary of the Alumni Association from 1947 through 1961, and he is a 1937 graduate of the University. 
Sitting in his office with such souvenirs of his long association with Notre Dame as a 30 year-old 
N.D. fire hat hanging nearby, Cackley spoke with quiet enth­usiasm about the many activities sponsored and coordinated by the Alumni Office. 

"What I have particularly been anxious to do is to continue the work begun by other alumni directors, ... Cackley explained. "I want to keep the programs going that have been in effect for a John Cackley points ~­
to Chicago, location of the largest Notre Dame
number of years and perhaps try to 
Alumni Club; {Photo by Chris Smith)
strengthen and expand them." 
Two of the events sponsored annually by the Alumni ssociation are Universal Notre Dame Night and the alumni reunion weekend. Universal Notre Dame Night is a three-month period from March to May, during which some member of the University administration visits each alumni club around the world, Cackley explained. 

The planning for the alumni reunion weekend in June of 1976 has already begun, according to Cackley, who said the preparation for this weekend will "tax his staff to the utmost." He said he expects nearly 1700 alumni to attend the reunion, which is to be held over RING IN THE LIBERTY the Fourth of July weekend. 

AT JORDAN ORO 
Alumni hotel in Lewis 
In addition to these two events, the alumni office will sponsor this summer, for the first time, an alumni hotel in Lewis Hall. The hotel, which will house alumni and their families at reduced rates, will be open from June 14 to July 31. 
"What we're particularly in­terested in is to encourage alumni who don't get back to campus for a football game or a class reunion to come back for vacations here," Cackley stated. 
Other activities which Cackley and his staff will provide for the 

f'X*~~:;:»--;::&;::;:;:;:;:-,:;:;:;;:;.;;;;;;::;:;:~-$'>.~hW'?"--~,-·W:,,,,.,ij.,.,.......__~ 
:=:~ :=:~ 


:~~~ 
VIe ~~~ 
,....
..... 
::::: 
....
····· 
..•.:::: 
.... 

i APARTMENTSI 
; .~.t 
.~
~.·-~:~-~.­

~ NOW RENTING FOR SECOND SEMESTER!! I :::. 
ill-FULLY FURNISHED ONE AND TWO BEDROOM APTJ 
w ~ 
~~~~;·SPECIAL 5 MONTH LEASES ARE AVAILABLE ~;~~ ~~~~:-INDOOR POOL WILL BE COMPLETED BY FIRST l~~: 
w ~ 
~~~; OF THE YEAR ~~ !~~~-NEW SECURITY LOCKS HAVE BEEN INSTALLED ~


····: 
-NIGHTIME SECURITY GUARD ON DUTY . 
~ -24 HR. MAINTENANCE l~__.__..._, ~ -. --.... .. • . . ....... *-•. ·-· ..... 
1
-=::: C.AI· J~z~ l&i~ &~~~~~i·J.·~~~. . . 
~·~... If;~ -~~1\ric.?q;jr:: 4»**¥¥7~; -~:::W~~~·····-~ 


tention from Cackley's office. Last night Cackley attended the Knute Rockne Awards Dinner sponsored by the club which annually honors outstanding high school athletes from the Chicago area. Cackley noted that the club planned to award the first Van Patrick award last night to Howard Cosell for excellence in broadcasting. 
"From observation of other institutions that I've seen down through the years I don't think th· ere's any other university in the entire country that can even come close to us in alumni spirit, alumni interest and alumni generosity," Cackley observed. 
alumni give the University much support in that they represent Notre Dame in their own com­munities and provide immense financial support. 
"We have over 5" percent of our alumni contributing every year and the na.tional average for universities all over the country is only 18 percent," Cackley ex­plained. "Our alumni give about three million dollars annually to the University." 
The alumni are also important, according to Cackley, in that they 
often  encourage  qualified  high  
school  students to attend  Notre  
n.:nn,p  

':'(Price based on 5 day/4 night low season package to Breckenridge, per person double occupancy, gas, taxes and air fare extra.) 
We'll show you a variety of complete, money-saving ski vacations to a variety of ski areas that include lodge or condominiums, lift tickets, meeting servir::e at the airport and skierized Avis car. 
And, you can leave any day . Continental's low fares to Colorado won't 
• ~WY'Ml -a.:;t.;Ur wipe out your budget, either. And 
:~ -~.~ '~f-~-~~~, ~~e~~;a~h~~~~~~:~~~~our 
&f~n--·d~ui·· s~~-~ For more information ,i:t ·~~-_· <~ ~.:~-~~· on our Cholorado SkifPackages,loc11AWA-.r:nm·-"'·'·' .•~:~-. send in t is coupon or your 
..._______-_..-=..-:::_·_·____, free brochure. Or call Continental's Holiday Counselor or your Travel Agent for one-call confirmation and planning of your vacation. 
Continental Airlines 
UNO 
P.O. Box 9000, Van Nuys, California 91406 
Please send me your free brochure on your Colorado ski packages. 
Name_______ 
Address__________________ 
City_____ Zip
State_~___ _______ 
Phone_____ My Travel Agent is________ 
\Ne really move our tail for yoU: 
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES-
8·l 

~ 
.. • • ,. • • .. " w • v" 11 <fl1hll Pr&.il'Bfrd'lllit1'111t> Golden ldil. _ 
.·' ., 

the observer Wednesday, December 3, 1975 
Right to die 
Quinlan case spurs European concern 
LONDON <AP) -Right-to­gal and social issues similar to wills" in the United States, ask television personality Malcolm The document, addressed to die movements are springing most raised in the United doctors not to prolong needless-Muggeridge. "my doctor, family and up in some areas of Western States by the Quinlan case. ly the bearer's life in case of Muggeridge, 72, told a news friends," was prepared and is 
Europe, stirred in part by the controversial Karen Quinlan 
case  in the United States.  
In  Italy  and  France,  how­ 
ever,  the  Quinlan  case  has  

strengthened groups fighting for an ailing person's right to live. 
In West Germany the entire subject is taboo because it evokes memories of Adolf Hit­ler's decision 35 years ago to end 70,000 "worthless lives" ­mostly crippled or mentally de­fected persons. 
In several other West Eu­ropean countries -among them Britain, Sweden, Switzer­land and Denmark -there are budding "right-to-die" move­ments wrestling with moral, le-
Doctors might be inclined,
Armed extremists shoot Soendergaard had said, to 
"give the patient the benefit of 
• the doubt" if he has expressed
passengers on· Dutch traln in writing his desire "to die 
BEILEN, The Netherlands <AP) -Five gunmen seized a local train with 50 persons aboard Tuesday, killed the en­gineer and another person and were "shooting at anything that moves" outside the train, offi­cials said. 
The hijackers attached dyna­mite to the train and demanded to __ be flown out of the country. 
Police said the gunmen, be­lieved to be South Moluccan ex­tremists seeking independence for their native islands from In­donesia, were holding the pas­sengers at gunpoint and had made an ultimatum, but the deadline was not disclosed. 
The hijackers' demapds, writ­ten in Dutch, were delivered to police by one of two women who were released with a child at the outset of the takeover. A police spokesman. declined to give any details except that the gunmen had asked trans­portation to Amsterdam's Schi­phol airport 90 miles away and a plane to fly them to an undis­closed destination. 
Police said the bodies of the engineer and of an unidentified person were removed from the train. Earlier reports said one body was flung out of the train and was lying by the tracks. 
The gunmen were armed with automatic pistols and a hunting rifle and fired warning shots at police, troops and at an oncoming train, authorities said. The entire area around the stopped train was sealed off and a detachment of command­os was flown in on navy heli­copters. 
The hijackers were holed up with the hostages in the front 
I,_ 
Railway unions threaten strike 
WASHINGTON <AP) -Nego­tiations resumed Monday to avert a nationwide railroad strike threatened Thursday by four shopcraft unions. 
W. J. Usery Jr., the chief fed­eral mediator, called the strike possibility serious and indicated that if a settlement wasn't reached by Wednesday the ad­ministration might have to ask Congress to intervene. 
The four unions, representing 70,000 railway employes, have set a 6 a.m. Thursday strike deadline. The unions are the boilermakers, carmen, elec­trical workers and firemen. 
The main issue centers on the railroads' subcontracting of work to outside companies rather than hiring shop-craft employes. 
Congress could be expected to enact special legislation to settle the dispute in the event of !i, natipnwide rail. shutdown. 
• • • • ' • • • _.. • ' .t ' • 
................."' ............... «..... -~--... . .. .. ­
mortal illness or accident. The
Miss Quinlan, 21, has been ly­
wills have no legal validity, but
ing comatose since April in a 
leading Danish physicians and
Morristown, N.J., hospital, kept 
psychiatrists back the idea and
alive by a respirator, although medical opinion is that she has are helping set up a national 
organization to promote it.
no chance of recovery. But a stc;1te court ruled Nov. "If we don't take the decision 10 that doctors cannot turn off into our own hands, the tech-
the machine and let Miss Quin­nology will decide for us," com-.: RANDALL' 
lan, as her Roman Catholic mented Mogen Jacobsen, chief parents put it, "return to the psychiatrist at a state mental 
gentle hands of the_ Lord." hospital and a member of the 
In Denmark, the case organizing committee. prompted former journalist A week after the 72-year-old Christian Soendergaard to dis­Soendergaard outlined his idea tribute in a few weeks more in the interview, he suffered a 
than 1,000 "life testaments" to heart attack at a railway sta-Danes wanting to escape a fate tion. His testament was in his 
similar to Miss Quinlan's. wall~t, but there was no need The testments, called "living -for It. He was dead on arrival 
at a hospital. 
coaches and had blocked off the windows with newspapers, po­lice said. 
The gunmen seized the train on a run from the northern city of Groningen to Zwolle in cen­tral Holland. They forced the engineer to halt it near Beilen and ordered the passengers into the forward coaches. 
The bandits then fired at an oncoming train, forcing it to halt and blocking all rail traffic in both directions on the line. 
Unconfirmed reports said the engineer· may 'have been shot and killed in a scuffle with the gunmen. 
Some 40,000 South Moluccans live in the Netherlands. Mili­tants among them protest the 1949 incorporation of the Moluc­can Islands, north of Australia, into the Indonesian Republic and demand their own nation. 
The Moluccas, once known as the Spice Islands, were under Dutch rule until World War II, when they were seized by Ja­
with dignity." A simi.lar .ca!llpaign was la.unched m Bntai!I last. month With the help of JOUrnalist and 
Wilson explains continental drift 
Dr. J. Tuzo Wilson will lecture on "Plate Tectonics," the theory which explains continental drift, Wed., Dec. 3. He will speak in the Architecture Building auditorium at 7 p.m.
Wilson is a distinguished lec­turer sponsored by the American Association of Petroleum Geologists and director general of the Ontario (Canada) Science Centrt. 
He has described plate tectonics as "a scientific revolution" which is making possible great progress in the earth sciences. 
Wilson received the Geological Society of America's Penrose Medal in 1968 for his outstanding contributions in geology and 

STORE YOUR BIKES THIS WINTER FOR ONLY $7.50 
CORBY LAUNDROMAT 
1015 E. CORBY 233-0896 
(JUST WEST OF BRIDGET'S) 



Uhe WinJjammer 
Before going home for Christmas let the Windjammer staff 
help you look your sharpest. 
1637 LWW SO. BEND PH. 232-6622 
ALL SERVICES BY APPOINTMENT 
Thank you for your patronage this semester. 
. •..o.~ 9' ~ • .• • 9 , ~· ~· J ·.• ....• .• •"" ,•
• ••• Y ,• 

-·· .#' ... "' ...... ~._. ............... --••• 
conference he had signed a being distributed by the 500­document that declared he member .Human Rights Society, would want "to be allowed to founded m · 1969 to oppose eu­die in peace." thanasia, or mercy killing. 
-. e • • e e e .,r-'l.,.~~~~ft~~~ e ·~ • • e-e 
• A H E •
•

: II DINING ROOM •
• 
•

•
• 

: W ED N E 5 DAy N 1 G H T 5pE C 1 A L! 
• 

• fRIED cHIcK£N ;
e ,. 
e MASHED POT ATOES-SALAD-HOT 
BISCUITS 
e ­
• ALL YOU CAN EAT : ~ 
[ •zq . 
t I.a __ .._ ••a& • --~ 
• 
· 

THERAGRAN:.M 

55.49 
For mixed vitamin deficiencies Recommended by more physicians and pharmacists than any other high potency vitamin formula with minerals. 
®
SQulBB 
'The Pnceless lngred1ent of every product IS the honor and 1ntegnty of 1ts maker''" 
MAR.-MAIN PHARMACY 426 N MICHIGAN 

(next to mcdonald7s)
PR 

WE APPRECIATE IT!!! 
_Good customers are the life _of a ustness. And to·show our appreciatio for your loyal patronage this semester we're having a giant sale. 
Come in and see us for Christmas presents and good tunes for the Holidays! 
THIS FRIDAY. SATURDAY. AND SUNDAY 

*'10% OFF LEATHER, JEWELRY, CLOTHING 
•'.SO OFF 3.99 & 4.99 LP'S 

* 1.00 OFF S.99, 6.99 & 8.99 LP'S 
•'.SO OFF TAPES & CASSETTES 
WE'RE NOW OPEN : 
Mon-Fri 10 -9 Sat 10 -8 
• Sunt2 6 

REcoRDs 
255-0266 
9198 COLLEGE SQUARE (Across from Town and Country) 

41 •' a' .~~o' , ,. all:&' • • :,~': •· •. •· • • • • _.•.., a· •.JI • 
• ..... o.. 
Wednesday, December 3, 1975 the observer 
5 

COUP Report finding 
WNDU lax in educational obligations 
By Mark M. Murphy
Starr Reporter 
The Committee on University Priorities (COUP), in its recently­released Report on University broadcasting has emphasized the need for University~wned WNDU­TV to 'intensify its educational commitment to NotreDameand the public. 
The report, drafted by a COUP subcommittee of administrators and teachers, was published in the Nov. 14 issue of Notre Dame Report. 
The subcommittee explained that the original concept of the television station was to be both educational and commercial. In the past 13 years, however, em­phasis on student instruction and educational programming has decreased because of "com­mercial exigencies and the demise of the Communication Arts Department. 
While realizing that WNDU-TV must continue its commercial activities in order to make a profit, the report stated "that the con­tinued existence of the station should include a more active participation in the first priority of 
KKK wives were FBI data source 
WASHINGTON <AP) -A former FBI informant testified today the agency instructed him to sleep with wives of Ku Klux Klansmen, allowed him to participate in Klan attacks against blacks and civil rights workers and did nothing about 
the  attacks  despite  his  advance  
warnings.  
An  F'BI  official  denied  all  
three  accusations  

The former informant, Gary Thomas Rowe Jr., wearing a white hood to protect a new identity he has adopted, told the Senate intelligence com­mittee he was instructed to sleep with as many wives of Klansmen as possible because "that's the best way to gain in­formation." 
Rowe, who now lives in Cali­fornia, said he was allowed to participate in Klan attacks in order to gain access to the Klan's inner circles. He said he often warned the FBI in ad­vance about the attacks, but that they took no ar.t.ion. 
James B. Adams, associate deputy director of the FBI, flat­ly denied under oath that FBI agents had authorized Rowe to participate in violence or "to get involved in sexual activi­ties." 
Next year 
you could beon 
scholarship. 
An Air Force ROTC 2-year scholarship. Which not only pays your tuition, but also gives you $100 a month al· lowance. And picks up the tab for your books and lab fees, 
· as well. 
And after college, you'll re· ceive a commission in the Air Force ...go on to further, spe­cialized training.•. and get started as an Air Force officer. There'll be travel, responsibil· ity, and a lot of other benefits. 
But it all starts right here ...in college ...in the Air Force ROTC. Things will look up .•• so look us up. No obligation, of course. 
Call Caot. M. L. Stockdale Asst. Prof. of Aerospace Studies. Phone 283-6635. 


the University: education." preparation for media careers." station "could potentially enhance balance between commercial and 
The report focused on the The subcommittee also the University's presence in the educational priorities. "The of­University's need to provide more recommended the establishment South Bend area. ficials of WNDU haven't con­student instruction in the Com­of a broadcastAdvisory Board for The subcommittee was chaired sciously downplayed the 
munication Arts by developing at the Notre Dame campus. It said by Sr. Madonna Kolbenschlag, educational aspect of the station. 
WNDU such things as a "the lack of formal com­assistant professor of American· Wemust remember the University telecommunication course and a munication between the station Studies. Other members of the is telling them to make money," he broadcast laboratory. Tbe sub­and the University faculty committee included Richard explained. 
committee noted that at least 25 diminishes the potential impact of Conklin, director of Information "The commercial demands had 
percent of American Studies -the station on the entire com­Services; Robert Gordon, vice­to be met at the expense of an 
majors sought media-related munity. 
president for advanced studies; educational emphasis and thus the positions~ upon graduation last The board, which would have Ernan McMullin, professor of educational goal first proposedonly advisory functions, is to be
year. philosophy; and 'J:imothy twenty years ago never had a ch­
Bazil J. O'Hagan, vice-president composed of station personnel, O'M~ara, professor of ance to materialize," Conklin said. 
of the WNDU radio and television University administrators and mathematics. 
"The committee also found that;tations, confirmed last week that faculty. The subcommittee Kolbenschlag emphasized the WNDU has done a lot for the a tele-com course will soon be reported that "feedback from the importance of the educational University as a whole and hasoffered by WNDU. "The course academic sector would contribute 

dimension in a university~wned especially helped WSND
would take advantage of the s­significantly toward mutual un­televeision station. "I'm hopeful throughout the years."
tation's facilities and would be derstandina: and toward for an active response from the Conklin emphasized · that theoffered to students interested in qualitative improvement in officials at WNDU," she said, "and University Broadcast Advisorymedia careers. It provides in­programming and performance." 
I would like to see the University Board would not be a policy­struction through direct appl,­The board would also assist in help the proposals become
cation," he said. ·student educational-instructional making body but would simply be a 
realities." conduit between station officialsOne of the recommendations programs. 
and faculty. "It would bemade by the subcommittee is the The Broadcasting report WNDU is owned by Notre Dame disastrous," he said, "to haveappointment of a director of In­recommended the improvement and has been in existence for amateurs telling professionalstructional Programs to act bet­and promotion of the student radio twenty. years. As an auxiliary media people what to do."

ween the station and a specific station WSND. It suggested more enterprise of the University, the faculty department. "The _money and instruction be given to NBC affiliate is under the auspices 0 'Hagan said the Broadcasting professional nexus,'' the report remedy current inadequacies in of Father Edmund Joyce, vice report was drafted after several stated, "would greatly enhance the staffing, training, equipment and president of the University. meetings with station officials and quality and effectiveness of the facilities. The subcommittee Richard Conklin explained members of the COUP sub­University's educational specifically noted that the FM WNDU's difficulty in attaining a committee. 




Save up to $3.00! Major label LP's! Top artists! 
Many, many selections in this special purehase. Classics included! Hundreds of records! Come early for best selection! 
Sale starts today! 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE ON CAMPUS 
Put it..together in Air Force ROTC 



et your favorites at Big Discounts' 


The Observer 
on independent student newspaper Founded NovemMr 3, 1966 
EDITORIAL BOARD
The Observer is published by the students of the University Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief
of Notre Dilme and St. Mary's College. It does not necessuily AI Rutherford Managing Editor
reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported Jim Eder Executive Editor
o~s o~ccurately o~nd objectively u possible. Editorials represent Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor
the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Boud. Com­Ken Girouard News Editor
mentaries are the views of individual editors. Opinions, Bob Mader campus Editor
cartoons and regulo~r columns express the views of their Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor
authors. Column space is available to all members of the Ken Bradford Copy Editor
community, and leHers are encouraged to promote the free Val Zurblis Wire Editor
expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Tom O'Neil Features Editor Bill Brink Sports EditorEditorials: 283-1715 News: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Chris Smith Photo Editor Business Manager Tom Modglin 
Dan Sanchel Senior Night Editor Advertising Manager Tom Whelo~n 
Wednesday, December 3, 1975 


We Need A Break 
meeting today gives all this. It is based
It is generally unpleasant to admit that 
upon "Choice C, in the calendar survey,
you have been wrong. Unfortunately, 
the choice which drew the largest student 
both the students and The Observer are 
support. It features a nine day break in
going to have to admit they have been 
October and a four-and-one-half days at
wrong about October break. From sad 
Thanksgiving.

experience it is clear that we need an 
It also has only 69 days for 1976,
October break despite the fact that this 
although in 1977 and 1978 it would have 70.
will require a pre-Labor day start. 
Fr. Burtchaell has said that less than 70
Last year the great majority of the 
days would be "intolerable". Despite his 
student body wanted to trade a mid­
habit of being correct, we must disagree
semester break for a post-Labor Day 
with him.

start and an "extended" Thanksgiving 
Seventy days should not be taken as an
break. The Observer, too, is on record as 
absolute. There is no accreditation
favoring a post-Labor day start and no 
requirement for that number. One day
October break. Although the 
less will not hurt the educational quality 
Thanksgiving break was not as "ex­
of Notre Dame; in fact, by allowing
tended" as we had expected, we got most 
students a rest from academic pressures, 
of what we wanted. 
it may even improve that quality. Some
And now we find we cannot stand it. 
may say that allowing 69 days would set a
Academics have strained many people, 
precedent for shortening the semester
both students and faculty, to near the 
even more in the future. But this "the
breaking point. Only two percent of the 
camel's nose is in the calendar" theory
students are still in favor of this year's 
fails to note that a precedent for 69 days
calendar and only three percent favor 
was set in 1973 and that, in future years,
the no-October break, nine-day­
the planned number of days would in­
Thanksgiving calender that drew so 
crease to 70 again.

much support last year. The faculty also 
But even if 70 must be the magic
seem to find the current calendar in­
number, a compromise can surely be
tolerable. 
worked out to allow some break in Oc­
Even more unpleasant than admitting 
tober. For instance the break might be
that we were wrong is admitting that Fr. 
shortened to two or three days, or a
Burtchaell was right. He has said for 
Saturday class might be included.
several years that an Octover break is 
As Fr. Burtch a ell has so rightly
necessary, even at the expense of a pre­
pointed out in past years, no calendar
Labor Day start. 
ever satisfies everybody. The calendar
Whatever the past history, it is 
the students propose today is no ex­
presently clear that faculty and students 
ception. But that is no reason for sticking 
need and want an October break. Some 
with a calendar that satisfies no one. We
break is needed at Thanksgiving as well. 
urge the Academic Council to adopt the 
The plan to be proposed by the Student 
student proposal.

Government at the Academic Council 
farther than the route through the derground passage sufficient for
P. 0. Box Q 
covered area, but, when it's cold, the movement of personnel. And, Dear Editor: rainy, or windy, the covered area if not, is it really worth blocking
What's up at the bookstore?Why is really appreciated. It's a place the migratory patterns of 700 are they closing off the main to stop, get dried off <or warmed Domers six times per day? It passageway between the North up) and gather one's courage to go doesn't seem that the closing of one Quad dorms and South Dining on to the Dining Hall to munch on of NO's major traffic routes is Hall? St. Ed's, Lewis, and C­one's chicken burgers or tube truly necessary.vanaugh residents are already steaks. Now this won't be possible. inconvenienced having to eat at The administration said the area Ken Hallett South, but now the shortest, most is the old Gilbert's store would be Steve Dadayconvenient walkway between is used for offices. Why, then, must it Albert Piedra 
being blocked. Granted, to go be directly attached to the main and a good part of Cavanaugh Hall around the bookstore isn't much store? Surely, there is an un­
/&/.;~.·:·_,.,,:;:._ 
-~y:;. 
'A WAR! THAT'S ¥MAT 1HE IMNORAL M\ERICAN PS::nE NEED! GIVE 'EM BN:K ASENSE ~ PURFOSE! I'LL~ B1CK AND LEAD lHEM! THEY I.Otf ME..ARGl.£ BA~ D~IBBLE BURBLE...' 
-.. ·.. ,·. 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
~Z, !T'tL aNrtdJR!l.~ atAY, MARK­
OH, IJO )f)IJR... SON, I IQ()N'T I'M R£A171f l5T'5 
fOI<. OL'MAN (j() erE 7lJKI3 60GCT /TON! 
60PS SOM& 600P OVER TH~ "' SAKe, 7lJ 1/NIQ/NP.. LINeII OAO... \ 
\ 


opinion!!!!!!!!!!!!~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Christmas Spirits 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii pauI .herbig 
I am the spirit of Christmas Past. I worship the memories I have. 
Our small farmhouse in the middle of the cornbelt was not much but we had each other. Papa and my uncle Jamie would tramp out to the forest ten days before and cut down a small evergreen. We gave that tree the most coveted position in the entire household. My brother and sisters gathered acorns and cones. The little ones made their own decorations. The fragrance of pine lived throughout the house. 
Before Christmas if we were good little boys and girls, Papa would take us into town to see Santa. I can remember it now. It was the highlight of the entire year. We walked silently through the snow thinking all of the time what we were going to tell the great man. And when we finally arrived, there he was, next to to his sleigh and reindeer. I never was shy but my brother Rickie could never talk around him. 
Come Christmas Eve we'd go into town again to hear the church choir sing the carols. And as always there was a play about the first Christmas and the manger. Afterwards we'd have eggnog and Christmas cookies in the home of the minister. Then we'd have to hurry back home so we could get to sleep before midnight...when Santa came. None of us could sleep a wink but you'd never hear any of us admit it. We were too afraid that if we opened our eyes Santa might see and not come. But sure enough as soon as dawn came we'd be up and looking underneath the tree. There would be presents which we would so unceremoniously take apart to get to the gift in the center. That was the Christmas I remember so well. And which I will never forget. 
I am the spirit of Christmas Present. In our nice middle class home in the suburbs, we too celebrated X-mas. Everyone celebrated. The stores brought out the first products before Halloween. But we didn't really get going until Thanksgiving. Santa came to a suburban shopping center on the Friday after Thanksgiving--most of the time a helicopter brought him-­accompanied by a local high school band and chorus. He lived in a prefabricated home in the center of the mall. In the downtown a convertible rushes Santa and his reindeers (model 38-24-36) to his toyland palace. The boob tube was loaded with Christmas tales­money-making propositions all. The manufacturers brought out a whole new line of toys and games guaranteed to keep the kiddies happy. 
And when I took my children to see Santa-we had to wait in line 
questionnaire for him. He then proceeded to tell them where to ~o to get what they wanted. The tree we had was a pink and-or white tree (depending on what color the flashing light was shining at that time) made of purest aluminum. The ornaments <Woolworth's had a special) and the dozens of lights made the tree even more brilliant. I took the kids out to see the individual displays--neon lights everywhere, large scale models of Santa. Really neat stuff. And all the while the latest hit, "Santa Baby," was playing over the stereo. 
On Christmas Eve, Julie and I left the kids with a babysitter and went to the office party. The Eggnog was 100 proof. Everyone got blasted but we all had a good time. When we got back the kids had already opened the~r presents and were complaining. "This is too big!" "I didn't ask for this!" Oh well, you must sacrifice something for those modern conveniences. 
I am the spirit of X-mas future. The legend of Santa is known to us all. The bearer of gifts. Once a year we remember him and give to each other on one big day. Anyone who doesn't is a commie­pinko-fag. The big corporations start their campaigns on Labor Day and on Turkey Day it is intensified. The entire com­munications network is geared towards buy, buy, and buy more. The government inspectors keep an eye onyou-if you don't spend at least ten per cent of your gross you are in deep, deep trouble. The big man of Xmas is Sir Nick-the bearded man in the red Johnny Carson suit who stands at the information desk. He is a year round fixture--an aid to commercialism. The parties are month long and everyone gets high, high, and higher. Oh yes. Xmas is certainly a time to celebrate. If you sober up long enough to. 
Which spirit are you? 
Special Supplement: 
'A new look at the old sauce' 
Over 200 representatives of 62 colleges and universities from across the country met at the University of Notre Dame November 21-23 for the "University 50 Plus 12 Seminar: A New Look At The Old Sauce." 
The "University 50 Plus 12" project was begun in September 1974. It is being carried out by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism through its information components, the National Clearinghouse for Alcohol Information. During the initial phase 62 college communities were selected and visited -one in each state plus 12 private or minority institutions. 
The Clearinghouse collected information on projects and needs of colleges in the area of alcohol abuse and published a first draft of "The Whole College Catalogue of Drinking: A Guide to Alcohol Programs on Campus."
Last summer an "Editorial Board" of students and university administrators and professionals was created. The Board reviewed the catalogue and sent its recommendations for revisions to the C'learinghouse.
A second draft of the catalogue was sent to the representatives to the Alcohol Conference for suggestions and criticism. The Seminar itself was a vehicle for bringing people involved in the area of prevention of alcohol abuse together to share ideas. 
The Clearinghouse staff will evaluate the Seminar and by next spring the final draft of the catalogue will be published and sent to as many colleges and universities as possible. 
The Seminar was one part of a continuing project to deal with t~e problem of alcohol abuse in American college communities. 

by Kathy Mills Senior Staff Reporter 
Donald G. Phelps, director of the Division of Prevention of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism <NIAAA), welcomed ap­proximately 150 delegates to the alcohol conference to try to reduce misuse and abuse of alcohol on campuses across the country and warned them of the consequences if they do not take action. 
Phelps was the keynote speaker at "University 50 Plus 12: A Fresh Look at the Old Sauce," held Nov. 21 through Nov. 23 in the Center for Continuing Education. The cocference, co-sponsored by the NIAAA and University of Notre Dame Student Government, involved 50 state schools and 12 private institutions. 
"When we see an individual who thinks it's funny to get overdosed on this dangerous drug, we've got to be strong and assertive enough to do something about it," Phelps stated. He pointed out, "If we don't do something soon, we're going to have a big problem.'' 
Alcohol on campus 

Phelps said academic communities are the places where many people take their first drinks, the most important ones. He stated the social environments and conditions on campuses and the pressures on the students must be investigated. 
"We've packaged higher learning like a cereal box," he continued. "Those who come because they want to learn are confronted with pressures and take that first drink." 
Phelps added many people take their first drinks because they want to be wanted and liked. More people are using alcohol now, he pointed out, than ever before in the history of the country. 
However, Phelps noted, "What we're about is caring. If we do care, we can get a handle on this. 
Phelps was educated in the Seattle school system and attended Seattle University and the University of Washington. He has taught at the elementary, junior high and college levels. 
Current programs 
Although Phelps noted there are many problems 
to be overcome, he pointed out many current 
programs are helping to reduce alcoholism and 
alcohol abuse. 
He cited alcohol education programs for youth in Holland, N.Y., Akron, Ohio, and Philadelphia as examples of "small efforts" to reduce alcohol abuse. He called the Jaycees' program, named "Operation Threshold," a "Middle-American program that has exposed alcoholism and alcohol abuse." 
Phelps said the National Congress of Parents and Teachers has testified before Congressional committees and described it as an "outstanding leader." The Education Committee of the States, Phelps pointed out, will have a "white paper" ready in September, 1976, with recommendations for education and legislation on alcohol. 
He said federal government workers are "very important people in terms of the jobs and tasks they're fulfilling.'' 
"The important thing has been the amount of organization," he stated. "Committees heretofore not involved are getting involved." 
"We're on our way," Phelps continued. "The stigma and myths are going to be eradicated." He added, "I hope the momentum of action of the past three years will put us in fine shape." 
Phelps called on the federal government to stimulate discussion on how, when and where alcohol should be used. He also said this must be dealt with in public dialogue, and stressed the importance of prevention of alcoholism and alcohol abuse. 
He noted a major problem of the Third World is concern over the increase in alcohol use. 
However, he said everyone should be concerned. "The misuse of alcohol and the ambivalence on the use of alcohol cuts across every sphere," he stated. 


But you've got a big task ahead of you." Phelps is the first director of prevention ever appointed by the federal government. Phelps is
Donald G. Phelps of the NIAAA gave the keynote address at the 
originally from Seattle, Wash., where he was a
University 50 Pl-us 12 Seminar. He noted that more people are using 
radio and television commentator.

alcohol now than ever before in the history of our country. 
Alcohol abuse on upswing 
Programs started to combat drinking problems 
by Maggie Waltman Staff Reporter 
Alcohol abuse is on the upsurge at colleges and universities across the United States, and at numerous campuses programs have been initiated to help combat the problem. 
Four of the more successful programs have been established at California Polytechnic University, Indiana University, the University of Florida, and Jackson State University. 
The programs on each campus may differ in the way they operate, but they all have a common pur­pose--to inform students and faculty members of responsible drinking habits. Representatives of these four schools agree that the general population is misinformed about what alcohol can do. Too many people believe in drinking myths and have no concept of what alcohol abuse actually means. 
Lack of awareness at Cal. Poly. 
Michael Looney, a member of the Mental Health Team at the Student Health Center at California Polytechnic, said the authorities on that campus seem unaware of the problem of student drinking. Looney cited three divisions in the Cal Poly enroiiment concerning alcohol abuse. 
"The first group mcludes those who have noticed that drinking can conflict with developing relationships with the opposite sex," Looney explained. He said 25 per cent of Cal Poly students had experienced such situations. 
The second group includes those who are aware of the problems of alcohol abuse because a family member or close friend had a problem, Looney continued. 
"Then there's that third group, the majorit) of students who are unaware of the problem because they are misinformed about alcohol abuse," Looney said. 
The third group were the people the Alcohol Abuse program at Cal Poly specifically wanted to reach. Looney said, "Certain segments of the student population are more prone to be misinformed about drinking problems.'' 
These segments include. fresh­men, and fraternity and sorority members. As a result of their findings, Cal Poly introduced the Alcohol Abuse program at fresh­man orientation. "We felt it was necessary to redefine the criteria for being successful both as a party giver and a party goer," Looney said. 
According to Looney, the program has been very successful on the student level. One, result of this success was an expansion of 

the program. "We realized that drinking made the student feel accepted in society," Looney stated. He noted liquor makers and distributors encourage such an attitude through their advertising cam­ hall vandalism and a negative effect on academic performance as three results of alcohol abuse on campus. At I.U ., a Task Force was set up to study the problem and to inform the students. The philosophy of the  Task Force concerne<l responsible drinking habits. "We felt that if you choose to drink, that's fine, but drink responsibly. If you don't choose to drink, that's all right too," Engs said. -(continued on back page)  
paigns.  However,  Looney  con­ 
tinued, they  don't  distinguish  
between  responsible  and  
irresponsible drinking habits and  
thus  help  foster  misconceptions  
about their products.  
As part of their alcohol program,  
Cal  Poly  appealed  directly  to  
advertisers explaining the effect  
the ads had on students. "We were  
very  pleased  with  the  initial  
response,"  Looney  said.  "In  
cooperation, one brewery actually  
reworded the ads that appeared in  
the Cal Poly newspaper," he ad­ 
ded.  
Problem in the dorms at Indiana  

Ruth Engs, assistant professor of health and safety at Indiana University said that the alcohol abuse program there was directed toward the residential halls. "We wanted the dorm residents to be aware of the problem because it caused other problems as well," 
Ruth Engs from Indiana University was one of seven speakers In a 
Engs said. 

.. series of presentations on what has been crone to prevent the 
she cited increase in the number 

misuse of alcohol. She cited alcohol abuse as a cause of Increased af students with disciplinary · stvdent disciplinary problems, residence "Mil vandalism, anct"Poc»r 
problems. an increase in residence academic performance. 
the observer Wednesday, December 3, 1975 
Says peer pressure forces drinking 
Kraft wants to know alot more about drinkers 
by Jim Winters  driving  while  intoxicated.  And  Destructive behavior by students  
Staff Reporter  Kraft maintained that a pattern of  under the influence of alcohol, such  
alcohol  abuse,  once  established,  as vandalism, drunken brawls, and  
David  Kraft  knows  a  lot  of  can  be  extremely  difficult  to  sexual  assaults,  appears  to  be  
drinkers, and he would like to know  reverse.  increasing. Although the illicit use  
more. Dr. Kraft, a psychiatrist, is assistant director of the University of Massachusetts Mental Health Service and coordinator of the service's alcohol task force. He discussed his efforts to control drinking problems on the Amherst campus at last month's conference on alcohol use at the Notre Dame Center for Continuing Education.  "It's much easier to work with people to prevent problems than it is to try to cure them once they're out of control," said Kraft. "If I can head off some of the people I counsel from developing a chronic abusive pattern with alcohol, I can save some of the work trying to pick up the pieces later on." In addition to individual coun­seling, Kraft's preventive efforts  of drugs has declined at colleges in recent years, student consumption of alcohol has held steady. Kraft, 33, is not a teetotaler, and he does not believe that many students can be persuaded to shun drinking entirely. But he has spent much of his professional life working with chronic alcoholics, and it has been a sobering ex­perience.  
"We  all  talk  a  lot  about  the  include panel discussions, speaker  
chronic alcoholic," said Kraft, ''but we don't talk enough about how the rest of us choose to drink or about how we can learn to drink  programs, formal courses, posters, pamphlets and newspaper articles all aimed at raising student consciousness of the  While at Northwestern University's medical school, Kraft tried to rehabilitate derelicts from Chicago's skid row. He rarely  
in a responsible fashion." Kraft's  · ramifications of drinking alcohoL  succeeded. Later, the psychiatrist  
group tries to reach not only the 10  Students should be aware not only  headed  the  health  office  of  the  
per cent of students who are heavy  of the possible causes  and treat­ Labor  Department's  Job  Corps  
drinkers, but also the majority of students who drink occasionally  ments of alcoholism, said Kraft, but also of the cultural traditions  program, where he encountered many individuals whose drinking  
and sometimes irresponsibly. "For many students, the only  and social pressures that con­tribute to alcohol use and abuse.  problems made ployable. He has  them unem­worked with  
enjoyment they have is their drinking," Kraft lamented. "They  The psychiatrist maintained that  Amherst's alcohol information program since early 1974.  
are very serious about studying, but are often frustrated by the prospect of no job after graduation. And whenever they have a party, they get a keg and blow off steam. They don't think  Amherst's prevention program is beginning to show results. Soft drinks are being seen at dorm parties where once only liquor was served. Intramurals, dances and other activities are growing in  Kraft has come to view alcohol abuse not as an isolated program nor simply as a disease, but as part of a failure by individuals to control their behavior.  
about people who may not want to  popularity  and  cutting  into  the  "Look, we're all human beings,"  
drink."  time students once spent in bars.  Kraft concluded. "Even some of us  
Peer pressure in dormitories and  And students appear to be better informed about both the medical  who think we're not in trouble have to look at the issues involved in  
fraternity houses forces some students to drink against their will, said the psychiatrist. Such  and legal costs of irresponsible drinking. At the same time, Kraft added,  drinking. students all, we  I'm trying to confront with those issues. After an have to develop  
pressure may also irresponsible behavior  lead such  to as  the problem continues at Amherst and on campuses nationwide.  responsible behavior--in our drinking habits, in our lives."  

IU Task Force outlines basic steps for successful alcohol workshops 
by Mary Pat Tarpey and to those individuals who are explained. The goal was an alcohol Staff Reporter going to be concerned with the awareness program and the goal of particular program. It is the program was prevention.
The Indiana University Alcohol necessary to look at what the However, given the situation at Education Task Force outlined specific goals of the program are Indiana University, alcohol three basic steps for establishing and see if those goals are com­prevention was not realistic, successful programs on alcohol in patible with those of the in­Larsen admitted. It was not the workshop on Organization and dividuals working for it. realistic to ask people to Training. Larsen also pointed out the need dramatically change their. 
Ralph Larsen of the Indiana for vested interest in the program lifestyle. Therefore the Indiana University task force formalized on the part of the people working University task force chose to some of the things his task force for it. "Find people who have those teach reasonable, responsibledid in organizing its program on kinds of interests. They will get drinking habits, he said. alcohol education. "These are the involved because there is going to The progra.m at Indiana focuses principles that have made our be a pay-off," Larsen said. on a two-hour training session program work," Larsen said. The "Perhaps the pay-off is a program, which is composed of a training or principles are generalized so that such as ours, which would be an trigger film and discussion each individual can apply them to effective tool for students in exercises. the specific situation he or she is residence halls. For all there is At Indiana University they try to dealing with. going to be a pay-off. See that there get away from stressing alcohol, 
According to Larsen, the is a study or a survey or that some Larsen said. They rather wish to program has to be directly related results are published," he urged. ask how that particular substance to the objective of the organization The second general principle is relates to the individual and his crucial in Larsen'sopinion: you've goals as a student, he explained. got to identify with the people In the training of hall staff, the you're working with. Also, Larsen task force reviews communication said, "Your program should be skills with individual practice concerned with a real problem. exercises, Larsen said. They We're here because alcohol is a present different problems real problem." through simulated games and Larsen said there are two points point out to staff members ways in 

, to remember: first of all you may which to draw out the students with be working on a problem which whom they are working. literature has shown to be solved. 
· Larsen said, "Find out what studies have. been done, do a literature search." 
Secondly, he said, you need to develop a program that identifies with the age group involved. In the case of alcohol at the college level, it is necessary to deal with social and intellectual pressures which never existed for that individual 
· before. 
In doing this the program planner must make sure that he doesn't tackle a problem that doesn't exist. "The real world isn't 
always ~like the researcher 
imagines it to be," Larsen warned. 
The last principle Larsen cited is that the program ought to be timely. The program initiated
,i~ must be important in relation to Speaking at a workshop entitled the target area and concerns of the "Training and Organizational task force. 
Techniques," Ralph Larsen of "Once we decided there was a Indiana University pointed out: problem and we decided to develop You've got to identify with the a program and do work on it, we people you're working with. did some brainstorming," Larsen 
.'-./ 


David Kraft from the University of Massachusetts discussed his 
efforts to control drinking problems on the Amherst campus. 
Many students there "are very serious about studying, but are 
often frustrated by the prospect of no job after graduation. And 
whenever they have a party, they get a keg and blow off steam," he 
observed. 
Panel discusses need for alcohol education 
by Kathy Mills own values." Senior Staff Reporter "The question isn't whether or not to drink anymore, it's when,
A panel of five students stressed how much and where," she added. the absence of traditions of Christensen no~ed the im­drinking in American society and portance of education in view of the need for alcohol education for this peer group influence. Maloneycollege students in a discussion of agreed, "Professionals can helpthe experiences of college students students realize the effects of and alcohol. alcohol. They can help students 
"American society tells its youth make decisions about drinking." two things -you can't drink until Notre Dame Student Bodyyou're 18 or 21, and then you can," President Ed Byrne, who 
said Diana Merteh, delegate from moderated the discussion, pointed Notre Dame. "In between, no one out education of college students is 
tells you where or why or how to also necessary because youngerdrink." 
people try to pick up the attitudes 

"Families don't introduce college students have. alcohol in the home. This promotes "We should try to educate the a mystique that makes it at­college populace so they can help
tractive to youth," she continued. both younger and older people," he "All of a sudden, they're in­explained.troduced to a place where drinking "You must be careful about the is an important aspect of the social mode in which you get information life and they don't know how to. across to the students," Maloneyhandle it." 
warned. "The idea of some of the Other societies use alcohol, other students in the peer groupnoted Susan Maloney from the having this information makes it 
Johns Hopkins University, but they do not have serious drinking come across as reality," she ad­problems because they have ded. definite norms and rules regarding La Vonne Chenault, delegate alcohol use. from Haskell Indian College, 
agreed. "You need things the Peers influence students can relate to," she commented. Chenault added she 

Kit Christensen, Moorhead State often uses modes related to the 
University delegate, said students Indian culture. relate to the social worlds of campus life and identify them­Byrne noted individual actions selves in terms of their peers. can also raise other people's "Drinking values come through awareness. interaction with peers," he stated. "We should do something in­
"It's a lot easier to relate to stead of just preaching," Merten someone who's going through the agreed. same thing you are," agreed She suggested bringing food to Georgia Stromer from Indiana parties or asking the host to serve University. "You can clarify your food and to have nonalcoholic 
beverages for those who do not drink. 
College atmosphere 
During the question and answer period that followed the students' presentations, one representative to the conference remarked, "Drinking, at least the propensity to drink, comes long before you get to college. I think this should be 
· clarified." 
Merten replied, ''Although beliefs and values start when we're younger, the college atmosphere reinforces them." 
The other pan~l members pointed out college is a unique situation since students often feel isolated from lhe "outside world" and they feel peer pressure. 
Christensen later added that, in order to help young adults who are going into this "outside world," the distinctions between the college and outside worlds should be bro:~en down. 


Wednesday, December 3, 1975 the observer 
Psychologists study early use of alcohol 
~­
by Phil Cackley Dame, as part of a conference Special features of the study The study of high school students portant changes in growing up, tht Staff Reporter focusing on alcohol use entitled, included its long-range nature showed that the onset of drinking is Jessors found. 
"50 + 12: A New Look at the Old covering four continuous years a relatively predictable ex­The college study showed thatPersons who become involved 
Sauce." with th~ same subjects, and its perience, based on the background many of the behavioral pattern~with alcohol early mature more Richard Jessor is a professor in attention to a wide range of so­and previous experience of the became normative rather tha11
quickly than those who do not and the department of psychology called "deviant behavior" such as Another significant
at individual. deviant. especially sexual exeventually "lead the way for 
l.le University of Colorado and is alcohol use, sexual experiences, finding was that after the initial periences and alcohol use.
society." according to Drs. 
the director of the research the use of marijuana, activist and period of alcohol use there is a In college, the social cont.--x.
Richard and Lee Jessor, 
program on Personal and Social protest actions and a number of -;harp rise in other "deviant becomes important. and fe\=:erpsychologists and researchers at Problem Behavior, at the Institute comprehensive values and at­)ehaviors" followed by an even­"personality factors" are involve~
the University of Colorado In­of Behavioral Science. Lee Jessor titudes. tual leveling-<>ff. in drinking, Lee Jessor stated. ·· ~1•
stitute of Behavioral Science. 
is a research associate for the There was a sense of having no As drinking starts, the value of study also showed that the dif­
same program. 
immediate answers but, "If we can achievement goes down while the ference in numbers of problemJ'he psychologists also said that The Jessors derived much of get some basic information on how individual's value on independence drinkers between men and women is the earlier onset of drinking may their information and many young people grow. we can get goes up. Alcohol symbolizes im-rapidly disappearing. lead to more of a tendency towards conclusions from a three-part .---------------------------­
some basis for solutions," the problem drinking, and that the use study conducted at the Institute of Jessors said. of alcohol is systematically in­Behavioral Science between 1969 The ultimate committment isvolved with adolescent behavior as and 1972. 
towards prevention, because 
a whole and therefore cannot be The study was done with Junior Qrevention the way
is best of

dealt with in an isolated way. and Senior High School youths, dealing with most problems. The
The husband-and-wife team with one class of college students Jessors' study aims at this byspoke on "Drinking and Youth: A at the University of Colorado and trying to organize knowledge on ~ Developmental Perspective" on with the parents of the high school the subject.Nov. 22 at the University of Notre youths. 
The study was striving for a comprehensive view to avoid
Location, facilities 
? 
partial solutions. Alcohol use was a major part of the study because it is "symbolic" of other "deviant
Why at Notre Dame
• behavior" and its social and 
psychological effects are by Marianne Schulte was the and replicated in other experiences.
1t warmth
Staff Reporter The onset of drinking is
hospitality with which Hewitt was 
On November over associated with certain patterns of
21-23, two 
received last year which con­behavior, including the use Gf
hundred student and ad­
tributed in large measure to the marijuana, sexual experiences,ministrative representatives from selection of Notre Dame as the site and others, but the psychologistscolleges and universities from for phase two of the University emphasized that one pattern doesevery state gathered in the Center project, asserted McCabe. 
for Continuing Education to take a The work of the team extended not necessarily lead to another. 
"We can't say which comes first-­new look at the "old sauce." 
through the summer, when 
deviance or drinking," RichardMary Clare McCabe, Director of members of the "editorial board" Jessor commented.
Student Development at Notre met in Washington, D.C. to bringDame, and Administrative Liason the data gathered on the sixty­.l!.:mphasis was placed on the with the National Clearinghouse, three campuses throughout the . survey of the high school students responded to the question of why past year into a draft of a manual, as the initial stages of alcohol use Notre Dame was selected as the "A New Look At the Old Sauce," are the most important, especially site of the alcohol conference an idea book for campuses. in how it affects growing up and 
sponsored by the National Institute by Kathy Mills "Amazing things were coming out
In addition to several students how those effects reverberate on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism and staff members from the Notre through an entire liftime. Senior Staff Reporter in small group discussions," one 
(NIAAAl. facilitator commented.
Dame community who par­The college-level survey Delegates to the alcohol con­
"The· midwestern location of ticipated in all sessions, focused on how problem drinking Some group facilitators said that 
ference heldat Notre Dame Nov.
Notre Dame and the competent representatives from St. Mary's, is started by a person. In college, their groups talked about how to facilities of the CCE were the Indiana University at South Bend, how to drink becomes a choice, not 21-23 discussed their values and start traditions in drinking. "We principal reasons for the seminar's and several South Bend com­whether or not to drink. By this attitudes on alcohol and those they wanted to talk about 'how do you 
location on this campus," ex­would confront on their respective teach people to drink?' but we
munity health care agencies at­time attitudes are already
plained McCabe, "along with the college campuses, during group never got to it," one stated.
tended the three-day conference. established, the study concluded. 
demonstrated hospitality of the exploration sessions. Notre Dame community." "A major issue in our group was According to Jensen, his groups 
discussed whether information

The alcohol seminar evolved as that we should be sensitive to all alone about alcohol will make athe second part of the attitudes and take them into ac­difference. Jensen cited the in­Clearinghouse's "University Fifty count in planning and program­ming," said Dick Gregory, state formation campaign on cigarettes,Plus Twelve" project, initiated in and noted more people smokeSeptember, 1974. The project plans prevention co-ordinator for cigarettes despite the campaign.
Oklahoma, who was a facilitatorto focus discussion and awareness 
of alcohol abuses on college for one of the groups. "This was Group problems campuses, as well as establish the readily agreed upon," he added. 
Other groups also discussed
Clearinghouse as a resource to were a
campuses for films, materials, sensitivity to attitudes. The participants given 
support, and information con­Gregory said his group agreed questionnaire at the beginning of that alcoholism is often a symptom the sessions. This posed
cerning the subject of alcohol. 
of another disease. ~ questions about attitudes and
One major state college from values and was intended to serve"We talked about the issue thateach state, as well as twelve the positive aspects of drinking as a discussion guide
private colleges and universities, were selected and visited by the need to be stressed," Gregory However some groups deviated 
noted. "This brought some
Clearinghouse team to compile from the out.line. "If you don't
dissension."

data on existing alcohol prevention drink, the majority of the and educational programs and questionnaire did not apply to 
Terms hard to define
assess the personal needs of the you," one facilitator pointed out. university in regard to the problem. Mark Levy, another of the seven Levy brought out another Along with one student group facilitators and prevention problem within the discussion representative, each college co-ordinator for Oregon, said his groups. "There was a tendency for president was invited to appoint a groups had trouble with the the participants to talk about member of his university to act as definitions of some terms. "For 'their' feelings instead of 'mine,"' 
a Jiasion with the Clearinghouse. instance, what does 'drunk' mean? he said. "It's hard to talk about Keith Hewitt, a representative For the college student, it has a ourselves if we don't really know from theClearinghouse, spent three positive meaning; to the outside ourselves," he added. full days on theNotreDame campus world, it has a negative meaning," However, most of the facilitators he noted.
in October, 1974, meeting with said some self-realization took rectors, assistant rectors and R.A. Another facilitator, Jon Jensen, place ·in the participants. classes in an effort to trigger who is prevention co-<>rdinator for The facilitators also agreed the 
discussion on alcohol abuse. North Dakota, said his group also attitude exploration sessions gave 
He also addressed the Hall had problems defining terms. people a chance to "gain insight I 
Presidents' Council, talked with "There was a difficulty in defining into other people." They noted I student government members, among college students the people became better acquainted ~ Ombudsman, Observer, faculty 'drinker' and tte 'problem with other people, and, as a result · members, Psychological Services, drinker,' " he observed. of this, could talk more easil~. Counseling Center, Campus Mini­"We had problems with the topic about their attitudes on alcohol. stry and Student Affairs ad­of 'responsible drinking,"' pointed They added the sessions also ministrators. out Frank Palmieri_... _group served to facilitate relationships
facilifatorlrom.NewHampshire. for the remainder of the con­
Through the aid of the "What exactly is it?"
Clearinghouse, the Notre Dame ference. Student Union sponsored the film, "We discussed what payoff we The attitude exploration groups "America on the Rocks," which get from drinking and· how were also consciousness-raising
drinking patterns have been af­
has subsequently been used in R.A. groups, the facilitators pointed out. classes. fected," stated Rufus Chaffee, ··They showed how to begin to do "Hewitt's visit was immensely prevention co-ordinator for Ver­this in another setting," one 
mont and group'facilitatcr.
valuable to us," said McCabe. His facilitator remarked. 
"We really got people to take a The
competence and low-key, ·non­parti~ipants thought the threatening manner created an look at what they're doing," he allotted time of 75 minutes was not atmosphere in which alcohol use added. ample, the co-<>rdinators noted. He and another co-<>rdinator said
and abose on campus could be However, they said everyone 
discussed in an educational the participants were "stiff" at the appreciated the personal growth j framework." beginning of the session, but they they experienced during the "loosened up" after a while.• sessions. 



Representatives to the alcohol conference were impressed with the Notre Dame Alumni-Senior Club--a campus bar restricted to senior student members twenty-one years of age.. Here a few of the participants are shown enioying some spirits in a casual, friendly 
atmosphere. 
tl e observer Wednesday, December 3, 1975 
J. lcohol conference concludes; p ..oduces new ideas, results 
by Maureen Flynn for the field in general." Tommy Payne, southeastern 'enior Staff Reporter The main concern at the moment, field representative for NCALI, 
DuPlain said, is to "keep the en­praised the commitment of the Tt :ohol Conference came to thusiasm generated at this con­individuals participating in the ference going by continuing to let conference. "The disposition of the
a cl ;unday afternoon, as the 
divided up into regional people know what is going on students is remarkable," he said.
delf 
gro1 • discuss implementation elsewhere and what other people "Each knows that he is just one are doing." person, but he can do something."
iS alcohol programs andof me, ' Jf communicating the DuPlain stressed what she ter­
"Alcohol abuse may be 
ace ishments of this con­med the "multiplier factor" of the 
America's most difficult social 
other and conference. Sixty-three univer­
fer( to colleges problem,"Payne stated. "We 
uni' ies. sities were represented at this first recognize that remedy
the willconference, she noted. "We have 
require a long period of time and a 
A~ erence members filed out to reach out now to the others. 
lot of perseverance. It will not be
of U :E to catch planes, trains, There are over 3000 universities in 
solved quickly or with any pat
and 'es home, several par-the country, she stated. "This 
answers." he said.

ticii paused to reflect on should be the beginning of a the\ end experience in light of nationwide program." Payne said his discussion group the f · discussion, "Where do we DuPlain's hopes were shared by focused on the problem of 
go f here?" Joyce Kelley, southwestern field "selling" alcohol programs to 
J,. DuPlain, eastern field representative for the NCALI. university administratorns. repr .tative for the National "We tried to choose a cross-sectior "Frequently the administration how do we go home now and program to promote responsible Clea 5house for Alcohol In­of the country for this first con-gives alcohol programs a low motivate them?" drinking, SMU has established forrr. Jn <NCALD. termed the ference," Kelley explained. priority," Payne· explained. "We "There are about 18,000 ways to Alcohol Education as a required conf, , tee "one of the more "We've mixed urban and rural asked ourselves what could be go with this," DuPlain said, citing freshman course, Kelley noted. !)OSit and enlightening" ones. institutions, small and large ones, done to ~ffectively draw the in­examples raised in her group's "Our group, though, was not "In f work we have all kinds of state-supported and private, and a terest of the administration and of discussion. The University of thinking in terms of programs 
oeop ·ith special interests," she number of ethnic colleges." other student leaders." Connecticuit, she ' noted, which fit particular universities," explc d. "By bringing in new Kelley notea that tne next phase "established an employees' she added. "The universities peop. -'hO haven't been involved of the program should involve the "Alcohol programs are most assistance program geared represented here range in size befor md who have no special contacting of ten or more ad­effective when both ends, the towards helping faculty and ad­from 8000 to 43,000 students. We allegi. ces, we produced more ditional universities in each state students and the administration, ministrators who have alcohol realize we can't draw one big 
open· ndedness and new ideas by mid-1976. come together," Payne said. "So problems.'' blueprint," she said. This is a way of getting at the The primary tangible result of university internally," DuPlain the three-day conference is a observed "The University of catalogue, The College Catalogue
( :>Ieman: 'A conduit between 
Connecticut found that it got the on Drinking, which will be rest of the university involved and distributed to universities across interested them in other programs the nation. According to NCALI

1' IAAA and state authorities' 
for students." Director of Dissemination Systems Members of the group also th­John McGrath, the catalogue is a 

by Kathy Mills manager of the Youth Education the Midwest," she pointed out, ought that alcohol programs based "list of program ideas initiated on ~enior Staff Reporter Program of the NCALI, a position smiling. 
in dormitorfes and residence halls campuses to promote responsibleshe held for about one year. She 

were valuable, DuPlain said, use of alcohol on campus."Je' ·1 Coleman is a person who is started with the NCALI when the because "on the line people" such The original catalogue was 
1 m; er at working with other organization instituted an in­Constant travel 
as resident advisors are able to compiled by an "editorial board" :>eop This is exactly what her formation dissemination program. 

approach the student more ef­of students and university ad­"I was asked to come to NCALI However, she is not at home a

Nork as Midwestern field fectively. ministrators from across the 
repn .mtative for the National as a 'communicator'," Coleman good part of the week. "I am in my Group members also discussed United States and was discussed said with a very slight trace of office only about two days out of
:lea. nghouse for Alcohol In­the merits of non-specific activities by the representatives to the 
c·orm< ion <NCALI> entails. amusement in her tone. "This the week," she noted. "I got out of such as life-enrichment programs, Alcohol Conference. 
between involved working with the media Washington (D.C.) into the
"I m a conduit the in addition to direct action to in­The field representatives all 
~IAA-\ <National on increasing awareness," she states." Her job involves almost agreed that the primary strength
Institute and volve students through workshops 
\.lcoh I Abuse and Alcoholism) explained. constant travel, she added. and media campaigns, DuPlain of the revised version is the fact md t te state alcohol authority Coleman also worked with the Dedicated as she seems to her said. that it comes not merely from a 1ffice;-,," Coleman explained. "I Opportunity Industrialization work, Coleman does not let the Kelley said her group was very government agency, but from 
lso work with the state prevention Center, where she was fund program interfere with her family interested in a presentation by universities across the nation. And 
o-ordinators," she added. developer and director of public life. "I am not a workaholic," she 
Mary Horton, an alcohol education because of this three-day con­
) In working with the state alcohol relations with the General Electric quipped. "I believe in doing my job 
specialist from Southern Methodist ference, it comes from the students ,uthorities and state prevention community program for about five well, but not in living it," she University <SMU). As part of its themselves.~ o-ordinators, Coleman and the years. In addition, she worked in stressed. 
) ther five field representatives the advertising industry in Besides being well-spoken and ~ •ring out programs from the Chicago. intelligent, Coleman is also well­
Campus programs begun

~ HAAA and the NCALI that are on However, Coleman's work has educated. She graduated from the ) 1 national basis. not been confined to this country. University of Chicago, and is a ) ''Our prime focus is on While her husband was in foreign member of the national cabinet of 
to help alcohol problems

\ »revention programs," Coleman service, she helped to establish the the alumni association for that l toted. "I feel the prime im­first television station in Nigeria school. "At Florida, we saw the need to
(continued from front page)

I IQrtance has to be on prevention by training women to become She is also a past-president of the use the rank and file in the student
Heca use the I.U. program

\ vith the youth at an early age," commentators. University of Chicago alumni population because the program
principally examines what is and

) he said. "The kindergarten "I have always enjoyed working association for the Washington, does focus on the student,"
isn't responsible drinking, Engs

) hrough grade three level is not too with people," the well-dressed, D.C., area. Goodale said. The Alcohol Abuse
said it was necessary to reach as

oung." poised field representative ad­Coleman regards her work as program, through student 
mitted. "extremely important." many students as possible, even
According to Coleman, the 48 initiative, has helped the campus
though 85 per cent of the campus

tate prevention co-ordinators, Coleman makes her home in "I have enjoyed every phase of to answer the most important
did not have a specific drinking

vorking out of state offices, bring Chicago. "That is why I asked for it," she said. questions concerning the problem:
problem.

•revention programs into the What is alcoholism? and What is ommunity. "They hit at the Engs said, "We decided the best responsible drinking? rassroots level," she remarked. way to inform the students was by 
The field representatives work film." With a $400 budget, the Task Jackson St. & communit.} lith these prevention co­Force made and edited a twenty­rdinators because the co­minute film explaining what rdinators have first-hand alcohol use can do to a person Kathryn Weathersby, field nowledge, Coleman said. She physically and socially. supervisor for the Alcohol-Drug :Ided the prevention co~rdinators "The film was entirely a student Studies Program at Jackson State an start programs independent production and was distributed to University, cited the need at f the NIAAA and the NCALI. all the residence halls and to some Jackson State for the campus 
classes for viewing. We were thus community to reach out to the Much experience able to reach a good proportion of surrounding area. the I.U. campus." "Our program developed out of The field representativv 
observing the use of alcohol in the rograrn has been in existence for 
Florida improves alcohol info urban area of Jackson," Weathersby said. She cited thebout one year. Coleman has been 

tvolved in it since the beginning of 
At the University of Florida, the attitude of Southerners as one goal of the Alcohol Abuse program reason the people were unaware of

}75. She started with five states, is to upgrade the information drinking problems.
1d five more were added on Oct. 
resources concerning the problem. "The general attitude in the According to Tom Goodale, dean South is that things happen to

Before becoming Midwestern 
for Student Services, about ten per 'them' and not to us," Weathersby~ld representative, Coleman was cent of the students at the stated. At Jackson State, the university are problem drinkers. alcohol program seeks to make 

Supplement Staff "We decided it was necessary to persons aware that alcohol begin an AAA group right on problems happen to them too. campus to keep this percentage At Jackson State, the students 
ditors: Bob Mader and from increasing," Goodale said. are prepared as educators for "Not many university and college programs in the surrounding area.
AI Rutherford 
alcohol programs have such a According to Weathersby, after the detailed plan." students are made aware of the 

ayout: Jim Eder and 
The AAA organization is just one background and attitudes of the Terry Keeney part of Florida's intervention popt&iation, they then learn the strategy. The program directs its when, where and how of 
,hotoc;: Chris Smith full-time attention to the goal of alcoholism, and can better combat inf9tqt~qg th..e.enJ.ire ~~ll'lmtl\lity pf ijle problem both on and . oU responsible drinking habits. campus. 
-




Wednesday, December 3, 1975 the observer 1 1
USSR to colonize 
Soviets extend military influence in Africa 
WASHINGTON <AP) United Nations Ambassador Daniel P. Moynihan said Tues­day that Soviet military moves in Angola show that the Rus­sians intend to colonize Africa. 
The ambassador also accused the Soviets of playing a major part in the recent passage by the U.N. Assembly of a resolu­tion declaring Zionism, a move­ment for a national Jewish homeland, to be a form of rac­ism. 
The plain-spoken Moynihan said he believes the Soviets backed the Zionism resolution to mask their own policies to Russian Jews. 
He said that in Africa the So­viets have brought Cuban troops into Angola and have built military facilities on the northeast coast. 
"It is fair to assume they mean to colonize Africa .. ," Moynihan said in a speech on detente at the fourth "Pacem In Terris" meeting. The meet­ing is sponsored by the Fund 
Roger excunines 
Tse-tung one 
need for busl•neSS minutes Tuesday, nearly twice 
as long as the Chinese leader 
energy prograDlS 
MIAMI BEACH, Fla. <AP) _ A top federal energy official said Tuesday that between half and two-thirds of the nation's businesses haven't begun any 
program of energy con­
servation. 
"Energy conservation can be a better investment than new energy supplies," said Roger 
W. Sant, assistant adminis­trator of the Federal Energy Administration, speaking at a workshop during the National League of Cities convention 
here. Sant told officials at the 
workshop that some businesses have saved as much as 30 per cent of their total energy con­sumption since the 1973-74 Arab oil embargo. 
"What is needed is to get the other half to two-thirds that haven't yet begun to establish a program," he said. 
The federal official bemoaned the lack of institutions working for energy conservation and said: "I wish that our utility 
companies, for instance, could become that institution." According to Sant, utilities 
could J'ust as easily sell or rent 
insulation as they sell elec­tricity or gas and could also 
rent heat pumps or solar heat­ing devices. 
Sant said he was not suggest­ing abandonment of efforts to develop new energy sources but simply favored giving energy conservation more immediate 
priority· 
He urged an education pro­gram targeted on homeowners and businessmen. 
iPARTY.GAG:a·ir=t·s;
! The usual and unusual for Holilar plt1ies •
*
• .
. . '·.
. 
! ~­
!
.
! --·------.-------­! NEW!JAND 
* ! 11fllfL
$ ,m w....... s. .__ $ ' c•u 2340aa
• 
: JUST AROUND THE CORNER 
1

.• .,·,. -.. . FROM INWOODS' '' .. •.•. I ' •. ', :;;.· ..'*********•••*··~ •.•*•._ ,. •~1t*"*****"tt-*•' :. I 
~ . .. . . I . • 
•*  
* JEWELRY* JOKES* NOVELTIES* CARDS  ,..,.. i i,.. : :  
* T·SHIRTS  *i 

* WATERB£DS :
•
i 

for Peace and the Center for 
the Study of Democratic In­
stitutions. 
Moynihan's remarks brought critical responses from African diplomats at the United Na­tions. 
An East African diplomat who asked not to be identified said Moynihan acts like an "un­trained bull who has to fight all the time." 
Algerian Ambassador Abdel­latiff Rahal said he wonders why the U.S. envoy "has to put everything in such a brutal way." 
U.S. sources said Moynihan had cleared at least the general outline of his speech with the State Department. 
Moynihan said that in the post-Vietnam era, the United 
President Ford receives warm welcome in China 
PEKING <AP) -President -.ord met with Chairman Mao for hour and 50 
met with then President Rich­ard M. Nixon in 1972. 
A brief communique issued several hours later said they had had "earnest and signifi­
cant discussions ··· on wide-ranging issues in a friendly at­mosphere." 
· h ld · th
10

~h~ mee~mg was e e official residence of the 8~-year­
old founder of the People s Re­public in Chungnanhai Park, . near the Forbidden City. 
The Communist chairman also greeted Betty Ford, the Fords' 18-year-old daughter Su­san, Secretary of State Henry 
A. Kissinger, Undersecretary of State Joseph J. Sisco, GeorgeBush, chief of the U.S. liaison Offi·ce I·n Peki'ng·, Lt. Gen. Brent 
Scowcroft, the President's na­
tionaI security adviser; Philip Habib, assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacif­
ic affairs; Winston Lord, direc­
tor of the State Department . 
policy planning staff; and Rich­ard Solomon, senior staff mem­her of the National SecurityCouncil. 
Mao shook hands all around and the group posed for a pho­tograph. Then Mrs. Ford, Su­san, Sisco, Habib and Solomon left while the others began dis-CUSSI·ons. 
The Mao session forced post-
Ponement Of a planned after­noon meeting between Kissin­
ger and Chinese Foreign Minis­ter Chiao Kuan-hua. It was re­scheduled for 11:30 p.m. after 
the Ford party had attended a ballet performance. 
Mao will be 82 on Dec. 26 and reportedly has speech diffi­culties, but he has seen a sue­
cession of state visitors in re­cent months. Kissinger, who also had a long interview with him in October, said his mind 
States finds it difficult to react to Soviet moves around the world, while the Russians have no reluctance to exploit unrest in such countries as Angola. 
"It is fairly clear that ideolo­gical conflict has been stepped up on their side," he said, "or at very least expanded to new areas." 
For example, in Angola, Moy­nihan said, "the Soviets in ef­fect have landed Cuban troops ... on the southwest coast of Af­rica, even as they are consoli­dating military facilities on the northeast coast of that conti­nent." 
Only complaints from the United States and opposition from Communist China have blocked the Soviets from doing more in Angola and the rest of 
was clear and his grasp of for­
eign affairs remarkable. 
The phraseology of the state­
ment issued by the Chinese 
government suggested that the 
discussions were more than 
usually cordial. No details were 
given either by the White 
House staff or the Chinese be­
yond the written statement. 
Susan l''ord was on a trip out­side the capital to the Great Wall and the MI'ng Tombs when she got a telephone message to 
return to Peking immediately
for the Mao meeting. She had to skip the visit to the tombs, but she had already trekked up the steep grades of the serpen­tine wall, stopping occasionally to be photographed and take pictures herself. 
Susan, who wore a full-length 
muskrat fur coat against the freezing temperatures, de­
sc 'bed the 5th century B C 
n · · 
fortification as "gorgeous, amazing and prettier than the pictures."
"It' th I
s more an ever ex­
pected," she said. "I feel like I'm in a fantasy. It's a whole other world." Representing the Chinese side at the Mao-Ford meeting were 
First Vice Premier Teng Hsiao­ping, Vice Premier Li Hsien­nien, Foreign Minister Chiao, Vice Foreign Minister Wang Hai-jung, Huang Chen, chief of the Chinese liaison office in 
Washington, and two deputy de­
partment directors, Tang Wen­
d Ch H hih sheng an ang an-c . 
VAN HORNE JEWELERS 105 W. WASHINGTON SO. BEND 234-2919 
-. ::.

. . . ,.. -. . ' -...-· .-' ' . ·' 
........ ".,,,, .. , .... ...... .. . _.-... --· ..
~ 
-1> _.......... -• 
.. ., .-.-...
-

Africa, Moyni.tian sal(l. 
The civil war began when various tribal groups struggled for control as Portugese rule was coming to an end last month. The Soviets have back­ed the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola. 
In the United Nations, Moyni­han said, a Soviet bloc country, the Ukraine, was among the supporters of the anti-Zionism 
resolution,  "which  directly  
served  an  announced Soviet  
cause."  

"AN IMPRESSIVE CHRISTMAS PRESENT FOR ONLY $1" 
Tix available at programming office-St. Mary's 
...

284-4176 '..., 
Century Center Presents: ~ 
NUREYEV'S 'OON QUIXf)TB' 

auoou h\JUYJ:V'I-"DON QUIXOTE·-RUOOLF NUREYEV ROBERT HELPMANN LUCETTE ALOOUS -~ ~ 
PERFORMANCES FEB. lst O'LAUGHLIN AUD.

•..........•........•......, 

• • • • • • • • • • • 
e
• 
• •
• 
• • • • • 
• • 
• • • 
• 
e 
Moynihan asked, "This was seen as an Arab initiative, but was it?" 
As long ago as 1971, Moyni­han said, Pravda published an accusation against Jews, liken­ing Zionism to the racism of Adolf Hitler in Germany before World War II. 
The Pacem in Terris meet­ings are called in the memory of the conference of the same name by the late Pope John XXIII, who· called for major in­stitutional reforms. 

EXCLUSIVE AT VAN HORNE SEE 
"ONE OF A KIND DIAMOND" 
FOR THAT "ONE OF A KIND GIRL" 
We invite you to see and examine one of the world's most scintillating natural Diamonds on display today. The 144 facet Diamond is one of the most brilliant diamonds, proven after a year's testing. 

An Ordinary 58 cut Diamond 

I 

• • • • • • • • • • • e • • • • • e • • • • • • • • • • • • 
Just when you'd given up hope. •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
The latest, greatest-looking, • super-fitting selection ofcasual clothes • 
b F d d Gl h d • 
Y a e ory as arrive ·At last. • 

THE GENERAL STORE : • • 1621 S. Bend Ave. -Behind "The Linebacker" • -M S t • Open 10-9 on. -a · e
12-5 Sun. I 


--~~---­
n the observer Wednesday, December 3, 1975 
' 2 
Always U~limited Free Parkin•g-...

~ 
11111

''.;
~­
I(t) \ll!t>ti ·~~ ff\j'+l t~! II

-( ' 
1 Mile North of NOTRE DAME on U.S. 31 North

--• 
rsraelis take air offensive
' 
Just South of NORTH VILLAGE MALL • (219) 277-1522 

(S
-' :t, 
i,
'~ 
2''1 
~< 
-'\ I 
:~ 
'-\ 
\ :1 ~ 
-~ 
~-~ 
:~ 
,'\ 
\ 
} 
,) ·\ 
:~ ~ 
:~ 
.'·
·~ \ 
f~)
-\ 
) 
:J ) 
·.~ 
,,, ·'\ 

' I 
Israeli jets, dodging heat­!eking missiles, attacked Pale­
inian refugee camps and uerrilla bases Tuesday in )rthern and southern Lebanon. ebanese police officials report­! 75 dead and 120 wounded. 
The Israeli military com­land reported the Arabs retali­ted by firing rockets at four ;raeli border settlements and 1jured two men. Both were vil­tgers at Qiryat Shmonah and ere released after hospital ·eatment for shrapnel wounds. 
The Palestinian Command 1id nearly half of the victims f the Israeli air strikes were ·omen and children. 
Israel claimed the targets :ere terrorist bases, including 1e headquarters of the Syrian­acked Saiqa guerrilla group. 'itnesses reported, however, 1e bombs and rockets devas­l ted civilian residential areas nd one refugee school as well s guerrilla military in­~alla tions . 
The air strike was the heavi­;t by Israel against Lebanon 1is year and was in apparent ~prisal for stepped-up Pale­inian guerrilla raids on Is­
teli border settlements. 
Jewish leaders pursue
Meanwhile in Jerusalem~ remier Yitzhak Rabin said Is­lei was distressed by United coalition against Arabs 
It was while Hill was en During the conference dele­Jute home from the South of gates will split into working 
ranee that he and the five 1embers of his racing team ere killed when the plane Hill as piloting crashed 10 miles orth of London on a fog-bound Jlf course. 
committees all seeking ways "to strengthen the bond be­tween Israel and Jews abroad," said Moshe Rivlin, one of the Israeli organizers. 
One committee will look 

NOW! 
For\Our Pleasure•.• 
.~( ~j
w.cnfl!'(
~--~--!.!'!!!!! 
A 
peace efforts. 
"Any attempt to bind prog­ress toward peace to negotia­tions with the terrorist organ­izations will end in failure," Rabin said. 
Referring to the U.N. resolu­tion adopted Sunday with U.S. support, he said, "This ex­tremist alliance cannot help progress toward peace and does not fit in with . . . the de­clared policy of the United States." 
In Washington, meanwhile, sources said a U.S.-Israeli rift has developed over a purported promise "in principle" by Sec­retary of State enry A. Kissin­ger to veto any Palestinian par­ticipation in Middle East talks before the Security Council. 
Kissinger is understood to have made the promise Friday to Simcha Dinitz,. Israeli am­bassador to the United States, with a qualification that any veto would have to be approved by the White House. 
Radio Israel reported a gov­ernment committee had ap­proved a plan to build four more settlements on the occu­pied Golan Heights in response to the pro-Syrian resolution. Is­rael already has 18 commu­nities on the heights near the cease-fire line with Syria. 
The leader of the right-wing opposition Likud bloc said the 
U.N. resolution was "a very grave political defeat for Is­rael" and called on the govern­ment to resign. 
In the late-moring raids over Lebanon, 30 warplanes flew in over the Mediterranean in flights of six. Half the attacking force bombed and strafed the Nahag al-Barid and Baddawi camps near the northern city of Tripoli, the other half struck areas near the southern town of Nabatiya. 
Saiqa guerrillas fired heat­seeking SAM 7 missiles at the first wave of planes, but hit none, Israeli government sources reported. The second wave scored a direct rocket hit on the guerrillas' missile ar­mory near Nabatiya. 
ENDS THURS. 
D 

AT 6:4 9:25 P. M. 

means o! attracting immigrants # ENTERTAINMENT PLACE ! to Israel, another will try to in-* IS * crease money donations to the * * state. A third group will organ-* RIVER BEND PUB * 
ize pilgrim~ges t? Israel during * * 1976. One 1dea IS to persuade * * foreign Jews to h?ld thei~ wed-* N.D. STUDENTS PERFORMING * dings and bar mitzvahs m the * * Holy city. : TUESl)AY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY * Another committee will think . , .. * up ideas for making Israeli # & Si\TURDA Y from 9 PM 1IL ? ~ events a c~use for celebration * H p py HQ U R * 
among foreign Jews. One plan * A is for communities eyerywhere * EVERY DAY 5 PM -6 PM : 
to celebrate Israel's mdepend-.v. 
1 

ence day. *********************************•
!---------------------------,One stop ~~christmas shoJ?ping". 
COMING FRI.-"THE OTHER SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN" FRI. -SAT. -MIDNITE MADNESS SHOW! 

AT EXACTLY MIDNITE
"K19!Y.. 
REDUCED PRICE! 
*********************************~ 

!FEATURING 24 OZ. DRAFT $.60 I
* 441 E. LASALLE AT NILES AVE #! NOTRE DAME'S NEWEST ~ 
tates support for a U.N. Se­Jrity Council resolution to in­tude Palestininans in future 
)nowdon saved ·rom plane crash 
LONDON (AP) -Lord Snow­on, husband of Britain's Prin­ess Margaret, said Monday 1at only a last-minute change 1 plans prevented him from eing aboard the light plane 1at crashed Saturday, killing uto race driver Graham Hill nd five members of his racing earn. 
"It's such an impossible thing J come to terms with," Lord nowdon said on a British .roadcasting Corp. radio pro­ram, discussing the death of 
r a ham, his friend for 24 ears. 
Snowdon, the former Antony .rmstrong-Jones, is a success­Jl photographer and had lanned to accompany Hill's ~am to take photos of a new ar they were testing at a rac­lg circuit outside of Mar­
~illes. 
However, he said he decided e had enough shots from a ·ip last month when he flew lith Hill in the same Piper Az­
•c airplane to Silverstone Race rack in England. 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Jewish leaders from many countries gather here Wednesday to try and forge a united front against the onslaught by the Arabs and the Third World. 
The conference was called by Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin two weeks after the U.N. Gen­eral Assembly condemned Zion­
ism,  the  ideology  of  Jewish  
statehood,  as  a  form  of racism.  
About  170  representatives  

from North and South America, Western Europe, South Africa and Australia will attend the two-day meeting. 
''Something happened to the Jewish people everywhere after the U.N. resolution," says Rab­bi Israel Miller, a prominent Jewish American leader. "This conference is the result." 
The congress comes against an unsettling backdrop -the test of loyalties Jews every­where may face as their gov­ernments fall into increasing disagreement with Israeli pol­icy, particularly over the Pale­stinian problem. 
"This is a major problem," says Rabbi Miller, but adds the conference will not deal with it. The matter must be handled in­side the countries in question, not in Israel, he says. 

The perfect gift for everyone young or old at ' the House of Turquoise in Mistiawaka, Michiana's largest stock of Indian jewelryt at a ~~Genuine 25 percent discount". 
: Rinos 

All at the 1-bJse of TlKq.dse
t Bracelets 314 So. Main St., Mishawaka 259-0751 
i Watch bands ' Belt buckles Across from the St. Joseph Hospital 
& Bolo ties & Medical Arts Center. ' Concho belts 
i Pendants Look for the Big White House 
' Chokers

t Turquoise nugget necklaces Open 10:00 AM to 6:00 PM. & Earrings f Squash blossom necklaces Closed S dt Puka shell necklaces Un ay • 
t· f 
~ 
t 
i ' 
' 
' .
t 
t
f t 



CHRISTMAS* PARTY!!!!!!!!! 
*

Yes folks it is that time of year again. 
You can once more sing, dance, eat and drink.!!! 
Saturday Dec. 6, 8:30--?? Campus View Community Center Observer van leaves librarv circle 8:30, 9, 9:30, and also goes to St. Mary's. · Anyone who has worked on the Observer may come and blow off all your frustrations 
(1) evening! 



Wednesday, December 3, 1975 the observer 13 
SMC Frontiers classoffers experience in ar·. 
by Shawn Scannell  interesting topic  we  covered was  acquired quite a bit of insight from  
Staff Reporter Frontiers, a very special class for ten St. Mary's art majors, has been an invaluable experience this semester, the students say.  the concept of time in art," he commented. Three major field trips also were an integral part of the over-all experience of the course. Visited were Chicage; Columbus, Indiana, a major architectural center; and  such close contact with a professional artist.'' Students also acquired a sense of the fleld of art from the artist's perspective. Raymo explained that his sister Ann, a fairly well­established artist, invited the  
Coordinated by Jim Paradis and Jim Raymo, Frontiers offered in­depth, first-hand experiences across a wide ram!~ in the field of art. The format of the class, Paradis said, was aimed at the goal of experience with art. "It's not a studio-oriented situation. We meet three Thursdays a month, usually  New York City, this being the most extensive. "We tried to set up a wide range of experiences for the group. We arranged to see a taping of the "Today" television show and saw a play and a movie, in addition to visiting the more strictly art­related places," Raymo added.  group to her home at Woodstock. One of the students, sophomore Jill Weigel, commented that this experience especially aided in understanding the artist's life. "We saw how she lived and worked and came to understand what it's like to struggle to be a successful artist, and how to stay there," she said.  
off-campus, and in an informal way discuss are, experiences with art, themes and such. We designed the class to be a.t practical and enriching experience for the art  Field trips integral part The entourage visited every major gallery in New York City and several minor ones. Visits  "Meeting the contemporary artists was really a thrill too," she continued. "They were the real thing. It means so much more than just seeing a piece of art that is 200  
major," he said. The Thursday sessions last from two-and-a-half to nearly four hours. One topic for the class was the image of women in art. Raymo, who handles the photographic side of the presientations, prepared a slide show that lead to valuable insights in the discussion that followed.  were paid to the studios of two contemporary artists-Jack Tworkov, a major painter, and Margo Huff. Paradis explained, "We wanted to develop the aesthetic sense by seeing as much art as possible. The experience with the artists was very valuable as the students  years old. I gained so much more insight from meeting them. It was amazing." Though the New York trip was the most extensive, Paradis said the other trips were extremely worthwhile to the group. The trips themselves provided the real-life exposure to art and the people  

"The hope was to provide a good variety in the topics. Another very 
Soviets announce economic plan for new growth 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Soviet government, stung by farm production well below its quota this year, announced a go-slow economic plan for 1976, the most spartan of the postwar years. 
Next year's plan, the start of a new five-year economic peri­od, calls for industrial growth of only 4.3 per cent, compared to targets averaging 6 to 8 per cent in recent .years. Produc­tion of consumer goods, an­nounced as "the main task" of the five-year plan now ending, will drop in growth rate to 2.7 per cent. 
"The comparatively low growth rates of production, es­pecially in Group B (consumer 
Some people who fly West for vacation products>, are because of short­
break never even get on a plane until they 
ages in agricultural output 
reach Chicago. They don't realize th<-:Y can
from the 1975 crop, as well as because of a lag in putting new 
save time, trouble, even money by flytng the production units into oper­
friendly skies fron1 South Bend, instead of
ation," reported Nikolai Baiba­
traveling by bus or car to O'Hare.
kov, chairman of the State Planning Committee. 
For example, one-way Coach airfare from Bibakov, unveiling the pro­
South Bend to Los Angeles may cost $4.00
posed 1976 plan to a full meet­
more than the same ticket from Chicago. But 
ing of the Supreme Soviet, the rubber-stamp parliament of this Communist state, did not report this year's final harvest figure but alluded to the "ex­tremely unfavorable weather conditions." 
··Saving you time. trouble. 
Because oL widespread 
and money on your way West
drought in the spring and sum­
That's Friendship Service:·
mer, Western experts have pre­dicted the Soviets will fall short of their 215-million-ton grain target by 55 million tons, or about one-quarter. The short­age forced Moscow to buy heavily on the world market again this year, with puchases from the West expected to top 30 million tons. 
Despite Russia's industrial­ized might, the economy is still heavily dependent on agricul­ture, which employs about one­third of the labor force. 
The Soviets also reported that their over-all defense budget will remain the same as this year's at 17.4 billion rubles. That would be equivalent to about $23.4 billion but currency comparisons are regarded skeptically by most Western ex­perts, who believe the an­nounced Soviet defense budget represents only a portion of military spending. 
The Soviet Union has the world's largest standing army, nearly four million in uniform, as well as an advanced arsenal 
of aircraft, missiles, ships and tanks. 
. ' ... .. ... ,. . . ":" . .. .. . . 
•. _..... -' ,. '! 
I • . i ' r-·. :•,:-······,,·'&, -.-.. " . 
..... j,. .. • ... ' • .,_ 
behind it, allowing the students to become thoroughly involved with the material,-he said. 
"Live-in" experience 
"Redbud", a program in art run last summer by the same two coordinators, was the seed from which the Frontiers class sprouted. This off-campus program was a 24 hour-a-day "live-in" experience. 
Paradis explained that "the studios were open all the time and ~yself and Raymo were available almost continually. Going through it, we all became very close working and living together so that we all benefitted from each other." 
"At the end, we wanted to create a course that would allow the student to gain insight through the closeness, but to concentrate on the aesthetic appreciation of art outside the studio," Paradis noted. 
A senior in the Frontiers class, Pat Carbonera, went through both programs and said the experience was extremely valuable. "The experience with 'Redbud' was really great. It was constant work, but didn't feel like it at all. Thh semester, Frontiers has been ever more so." The reason why, shf said, was the introduction of thE field trips. 

" 'Redbud' offered a stationar; base to work from, touching on th4 development of appreciation o art. With the field trips, Frontier: concentrates on the aesthetics o art in a much more intense way providing experiences that expost far more of the real-life side ol art," she explained. 
The two-credit course, open to art majors only, is graded simply satisfactory or unsatisfactory. A limit of ten students is set and thie semester's class was acomprised of five sophomores, a junior and four seniors. 
Exemplifying the growth the coordinators hoped to see in the students, Raynto explained that the students wrote a small paper at the beginning of the\course about what makes something aesthetic. "We'll have them write another paper on the same topic at the end. This should indicate somewhat how much the student has gained by the end," he 


there·s no way you can get to O'Hare for less money. or in a shorter time, or wit~ less hassle. So flying United from So~th Bend IS ~ctually cheaper. quicker, and easter than rolling down the toll road. 
For Friendship Service to 59 cities from South Bend, call your Travel Agent. Or call United at 232-4811. Partners in Travel with Western International Hotels. 
The friendly skies of yourland. 

.·.·.•.·.·.•.•.·.·:·:·:•.· 



·-~··----·---~· ~ 
... 

a . 

An Opportunity for 450 . Highly·Qualified Sophomores ·­
If you're the kind of person we're looking fo1; you've already started to think about \\.·hat you'd like to do after gTaduation. 
If a scholarship leading to a caree1· as an Officer in the U.S. Navy appeals to you, you'll find this n1essage \\7ell \Vorth 1·eading. 
Two-Year Full Scholarships 
The opportunity is very attractive. If you're selected, \Ve'll provide full tuition during; your Junior and Senior years, pay for your books and educational fees, and give you $100 a n1onth for 10 1nonths each year to help cover your living expenses. 
There are two different progTams you can apply for. The first is the Nuclear P1·opulsion Candidate Scholarship ProgTan1 (NPCS). To qualify, you must have one seinester each of calculus and physics (or t\vo se1nesters of calculus) and have a B-1ninus average or bette1: It is open to men only. 
The other program is the Two-year NROTC Scholarship Program. The only difference in the qualifications is that you n1ust have a C average 
(2.3 out of 4.0) or better. It is open to men and women. 
For both progTams, you'll need to pass Navy qualification tests. And, quite frankly, it \\ill help if your major is math, physical science, or 
. .
eng1neer1ng. 
TheCurriculum 
After you're accepted, you begin vvith six \veeks of training next summer at the Naval Science Institute at N e\\·poit, R.I. During you1· final t\vo years of college, you take several 1·equired courses in 111ath, physics, and Naval Science. You also go on a summer cruise prior to your Senior year. (Of course, you're paid for all your summer duty.) 
; ...... \ ... ,t.~·· 
't'l 0 
t•···.·;·~,.,i• ....:•..:"~.·.· ... •........ , .• , . 
. .
j '4···}"·,···6··-···············,...-.... ".•.-....•.. ·... •·• • ._..__... ,.,. ••• ,.. ....... e ..... 4\6&'oA""''A ... ta ...a ....., • ., •• .._,,_wr.tl..o• 
AChallengingJob 
Upon gTacluation, you are con1111issioned as an Officer in the U.S. Navy. Ancl from then oi1 vour ca1·eer can take vou anV\i\~here in the vvorld 
... t/ t./ ' 
in a variety of fulfilling job~. 
Those \\.·ho apply for the NPCS ProgTan1 have a particular challenge ahead of then1: The Navy's Nuclea1· Po\\·er ProgTan1. Not evervone 
~ v 

\\·ho applies 1nakes it: the n1en in charge of 
n1ore than t\\To thi1·cls of our country's nuclear 
reactors n1ust be a very special b1·eecl. Final 
acceptance into the N avv's Nuclear Po\ver 
OL 

ProgTan1 is cletern1ined during your Senior year 
after an intervie\Y in Washington \\ith the 
Di1·ector, Division of Naval Reactors. 
A t\vo-year scholarship worth up to $10,000. A unique opportunity to se1·ve as an Officer in the 
U.S. Navy. You'll \\.Tant to act no\\r. The deadline for acceptance is May 1, 1976-and once the quotas are filled, you'll have lost your chance to earn yourself a scholarship. 
If you think you've got what it takes to qualify, fill out and mail the coupon below, contact either your local Naval Recruiting District or the Professo1· of Naval Science on your campus, or call800-841-8000, toll-free, anytime. 
r-----------------~ 
88

1 The Navy . 1, 
I MAIL TO: Capt. H.C. Atwood, Jr., U.S. Navy I 
I NAVY OPPORTUNITY INFORMATION CENTER I P.O. Box 2000 
I Pelham Manor, N.Y. 10803 I 
Dear Sir: 
I I am a College Sophomore. Please send me more information on I 
1 the two-year scholarships available. I am interested primarily in: 1 
D Two-year NROTC Scholarship Programs I (including nuclear option). (0K)I D General NROTC information. (0T) 
I NAME (Print) __________ ... ___ ·-·----­
!1 rst last

I STREET------------·­I CITY_ ··---·------·-· .. ____STAT 1 ZIP DATE OF BIRTH___ -·-. 
I I 
__ __ ____ I -. -----I 
I 
-·-·-I 

I  ~~~~~~EG  l------·  ----­ - .  --~~ ~-RAD~;TE  I  
I  rOJ ACADEMIC AVERAGE  [6J MAJOR  I  
I  I  
I I  0 I don't want to wait. Call me at the number above. (¢K) If you prefer, you can call us toll-free at 800-841-8000. In Georgia, call  I 1  
•  800-342-5855. In Alaska, call collect-272-9133.  
- , -------­ J ---­ -----~·"-'--Co..!.' ......................a ..  '~-·'·~  

~ --~--~----~-----­

~~. ........... tt.•••.••' • ••"' 

Wednesday, December 3, 1975 the observer
2.3-billion in financial aid 15 
.. I 
House passes loan proposal for New Yo1 k 
WASHINGTON <AP) -The urged the House not to approve Committee, noted the $2.3-bil­solved," Reuss said. the federal governme. to House on Tuesday approved the aid on the grounds that the lion Ford proposal was less Earlier, Beame met with make loans to the city ov · the President Ford's $2.3-billion citizens of New York should not than half of the $7-billion loan House leaders and Sen. William next three years.
loan proposal to aid financially 
have continuously elected the guarantee plan approved ear­Proxmire, 0-Wis., chairman of Under the plan, the citystricken New York City and politicans who put the city into lier by the committee. the Senate Banking Committee. would have to repay eacl loan 
sent the measure to the Senate its financial crisis. by the end of each fisca. year
But Reuss said that "half a Afterward, he also said he
where passage was expected "I feel no moral responsi­loan is better than none." would ask the federal govern­to qualify for another loar The despite a planned filibuster. bility to the people in New ment for $140 million to $150 city will have to pay an ir ~rest
He also warned that approval
New York Mayor Abraham 
York City because they didn't million in loans to carry the rate 1 per cent higher th' the
of the legislation would not
Beame said he expected Senate do what they should at the bal­city through its obligations this Treasury is paying for it: own 
approval within a week. guarantee the city's financial
iot box," Latta told the House. month. borrowings.
plight would. disappear. 
House passage was by a 213-Beame said Congress must Unlike bills approved bj both 
203 vote. Rep. Henry S. Reuss, D-Wis., "We should not harbor the il­act within the next two weeks if Senate and House banking com­
Rep. Delbert Latta, R-Ohio, chairman of the House Bankin~ lusion the problem has been the city is to avoid default Dec. mittees, the Ford me sure 11, the day in which it must would not apply to other c.ties. pay on bond obligations. The bill faces a filibuster by 
The Ford plan, which will be Sen. James Allen, 0-Ala., but offered as an amendment to the backers in the Seante say they $7-billion bill by Rep. William have the 60 votes needed to 
U.S. laws prevent coal usage 
CLEVELAND <AP)-A coal company executive says vast coal reserves could solve this country's energy crisis but "for a variety of reasons we can't mine it..._ we can't ship it and we can't burn it." 
Herbert Richey, president of the Valley Camp Coal Co. and vice chairman of the U.s Chamber of Commerce, said there are more BTU's in the coal under Wyoming and Mon­tana "than the Sheiks have ... in their oil under the Arabian Peninsula." 
He said coal is so plentiful it 
Gasoline traced to three deaths 
MASSILLON, Ohio (AP)­Massillon Fire Chief Michael Bednar says investigators think "accumulated vapors" from gasoline used to burn La Cuis­ina restaurant caused a tre­mendous explosion that wrecked the building and killed three firemen. 
Bednar said Tuesday investi­gators had found in the wreck­age several "white plastic five­gallon containers" believed to have been used forgasoline and "leading officials to believe ag­gravated arson was the cause" of the Sunday night fire. 
Two other persons injured in the explosion remained in area hospitals. Fire Capt. Joseph Glossen was listed in fair condi­tion, and Norman Reader, a nearby resident who went to help firemen after a first, small explosion touched off a fire at La Cuisina, was reported i· satisfactory condition. 

Tom McMahon Genera I Agent 

~~'~: 
'~"''~' 
Manny Avila Agent 

Karen Wentland Agent 

Diane ong Agent 
could supply the nation's needs He said Congress "and a for centuries. number of state legislatures
"We can't mine it because continue to dally with restric­environmental hysteria sees the tive surface mining legislationsurface mining of coal as the and the Department of the Inte­rape of North America," Rich­rior, which leases coal tracts ey told a symposium at Case on public lands, hasn't let a Western Reserve University on new coal lease in more than "energy alternatives !or Ohio." three years." 
Gas drilling encouraged 
COLUMBUS, Ohio <AP) -sonable. "In 1967," he noted, With a pledge of state support "there were 2,600 wells drilled from Gov. James A. Rhodes, in Ohio, using equipment inferi­Ohio drillers have launched a or to what is available today." new drive to encourage drilling 
The record year for Ohio,of oil and gas wells in the state. 
cording to the state division 
"The industry has outlined a oil and gas, was 1964 when policy which it believes will en­835 wells were drilled during courage the drilling of 3,000 the "Morrow County boom." wells a year in Ohio for each of 
About 1,000 wells have been 
the next five years," Rhodes 
drilled so far this year, thesaid after meeting Tuesday vision said. 
with Kenner McConnell Jr., 
Rhodes said the 3,000-a-yearpresident of the Ohio Oil and goal for new wells would doubleGas Association. 
Ohio's production of natural Rhodes called that goal rea-gas and ease current shortages.
.---------------­
' KEN'S DEN 
t -HAIR STYLING ­
t -AWARD WINNING STYLISTS 
t -UNIQUE ATMOSPHERE 
f -ROFFLER S'fYING STYLING & 
f P.KODUCTS 
, ACROSS ~·RoM 100 CENTER' (LINCOLNW A Y WEST)
t IN MISHAWAKA t Phone 255 -6500 
t__!r!.<lll!It:L~~~!fU:A~~-J 
'Tearafter vear~ Isen1ester after sen1ester~ the College Master frorn Fidclin·
. 

Union Life has ht~n the rnost accepted.. nu)sf popular plan on carnpuses all o\·crArnerica. 
Find out why.
. 

Call the Fidelity Union Coll('gcMaster 
•Field Associate 111 your area: 
1 005 E. LaSalle South Bend. Ind. Phone 287-2327 
..-~~ ,; .·~l (()llc~cJVt1stcr
\. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 

The Notre Dame Cook Book . perfect Christmas gift for someone special. Limited quantity priced at $3.50. Available at Aquinas & ND Bookstores. 
Flanner Records has in stock the best of John Lennon, Seals and Crofts, Barry White, America, Chicago, plus the new Aerosmith, Crosby and Nash, Fleetwood Mac, Elton John, Paul Simon and many more. Call 1487 or come to 807 Flanner. 
For sale: 2 hockey goalie sticks, $3.50 each. Tom 3341. 
For sale: 1968 Dodge Dart, 2 dr. sedan. 6-cylin., std., transmission, 68,000 miles, $500. Call Mike, 232· 0761. 
Electro voice EVS 16B speakers. 12", 3-way, $160 pr. Paul 1004. 
WANTED 

Wanted: riders going to San Antonio, Texas for Christ­mas.break. Call Ron 1219. 
Wanted: riders going to San Antonio, Texas for Christmas break. Call Ron 1219. 
1 need ride to Owosso, Mich. for Xmas break on either Wed. evening, Dec. 17 or Thurs. a.m. Will share expenses. Call Terri 7051. 
St. Mary's students needed as campus representatives for fashionable products. Earn ex­cellent money fast. Call Shawn 3318. 
NEED EXTRA CHRISTMAS CASH???? Will buy ONE season BB ticket. Please t:all Lynda· 7688 (10-5) or 277-1089 after 6 p.m. 
Stanton, R-Ohio, would permit stop the filibuster. 
ONIGH 

DRINK 'N' DROWN with BRUCE CARR 

he Whitehouse Inn 8 miles north of the State Line Take 31 to Niles then north on 51~ 3 miles 683 -9842 
' 
J J 
~ 
... 

FOR RENT 
Off Campus Housing -Private 12 man student residence. All ac­comodations, including meals, laundry, single bedrooms. Ex­cellent study atmosphere. 10 minute walk from circle. Places available second semester. Call Pat 232-0550. 
Student wanted to share 3· bedroom newly carpeted and remodeled house on 5 acre ranch with 2 other students, 1 mile N. of campus. Available in January. Call 277-0846. 
Furnished apartment near campus available 12-21-75; utilities; 3 adults. 272-62114. 
Furnished aprrtment, 503 w. Jefferson, duplex, 3 rooms. first floor, gas heat furnished, 289-6307 or 234-0596. 
Rent my upstairs $50 month. 233­1329. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: Commodore-Kingspoint calculator in Nieuwland Sci. at beginning of year. If found please call 1609. 
Found: Olde Frothingslosh T-shirt in front of Walsh Hall. Call 8126. 
NOTICES 
Typing, $.35 a page. Call Dan 272· 55.C9. 
Morrissey Loan Fund S20-S150 waiting period, 1 percent interest due in 30 days. LaFortune basement M-F 11:15 -12:15. 
BOOK SHOP. 30,000 books and prints. Ralph A. Casperson Books. 
1303 Niles-Buchanan Road, Niles. Hours Wed., Sat., Sun., 9 to 7 or chance. 
Accurate, fast typing. Call Mrs. Donoho 232-07.46. 
Used Books and Paperbsacks ­large stock of general reading material and o.p. books. Bring this ad and receive one tree parerback with any $1.00 purchase. The Bookstack, 112 W. Lexington, Elkhart, Ind. 46514. 
Books make great gifts. New books and box sets ideal for everyone. At Pandora's Books 937 
S.B. Ave. 
Piano tuning and repair. Professionally trained without strobes. Duane Christianson 287­8890. 
Will do typing, experienced, term papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233­8512. 
PERSONALS 
B. B. 
Do you have ANY idea? I just have NO IDEA. T.C. 
Buck, Do you walk to school or does the steel door clang shut? Barney 
Buck, Are you happy or do you carry your lunch? Shemp 
Buck, 1-1-1-1 see what you're trying to say but how does the. t relate to your birthday? Lewis N. 
Great monents In Heimbuch History: Oct. 15: When 1 go home for Thenksgtvtng...Oec. 1: Old you guys catch the UCLA game? 
Buck: That's okay. No, forget. No, that's alright. My roomie. My main man. No, forget It. 1don't want to discuss tt. 
The 1ynamtcdolphins are coming! 


------~--~ -----~-----------------------------------~------...... 

16 the observer Wednesday, December 3, 1975 
:':' 
-_, 

with the play, blocking the shot. 
Irish shatter Val zone 117-83 
1 
1 by Bill Brink 
Rencher added a beautiful full­
\ Sports Editor 
court pass to Dantley, who scored 
\ 
on a goaltending call, and Dantley
'-'\ 
added a technical foul when he
i, The zone defense is supposedly
' 
held the ball too long.

·he best way of stopping the Notre The Irish reserves came on to 
' ~ Dame basketball team, but future finish the game impressively.
rish opponents will have to
"' ~ 
Randy Haefner scored eight
'luestion that logic.-'i Tearing apart Valparaiso's zone points, Roger Anderson had five,) Jeff Carpenter had four and Dave
·rom both the outside and under the 
~ 
\~ Kucmicz hit a free throw for one.asket. and applying a devastating
~ 
I point. For the rest of the Irish1ress that flustered the Crusaders 1 
starters, Toby Knight hit for sixrom the start, the Irish gained
< ·~ points, Bill Paterno for ten, Rayheir second victory of the season
' ~ Martin scored four and Davesith a 117-83 trouncing of Bill
'~ Batton six. Flowers and Dantley,Jurdin 's cagers last night in the 
had seven rebounds each to lead
:~} \Jotre Dame ACC. 
Notre Dame on the boards.

"We executed very well from the
I 
~ 
six.

ihen kept it up."
~~ 
Notre Dame's press forced the
Once again, All-American for­
~J Crusaders into 37 turnovers, and a
ward Adrian Dantley paced ND Bernard Rencher gets set to throw a pass in last night's contest with Valpo. Rencher befuddled the .458 shooting percentage from thewith 39 points, but Phelps used a
\1 '~~~} Crusaders with his brilliant passing. floor. Thr Irish hit .548 of their
balanced lineup that saw 
numerous substitutions and a opened the scoring with two out­With the game safely in hand, number of side jumpers. field goals and outrebounded Valpo 
1. ~ 
..-:'' good deal of playing time for his side jumpers, the Irish built up a the Irish played wide-open Sophomore Dave Batton hit a 50-37. 10-4 lead with 3 : 18 gone in the basketball in the secoind half. sweeping hook shot and turned a Phelps and his players will get
~~ freshmen and sophomores. Every fame. Dantley then hit four Dantley continued to score un­neat trick when he watched a their first big test this SaturdayIrish player scored, and together
:) the non-starters totaled 103 buckets in a row for ND to put derneath and at the free throw line, Crusader pass go between his legs afternoon when they host the Red 
'1 
;-\ minutes of playing time. them ahead 18-lt Rencher and and Duck Williams added a then turned around and caught up 'Raiders of Texas Tech. "We've got to play a lot of Flowers began their act then, with --.\ people," Phleps explained. Flowers last basket giving the "That's how we'll play all year. Irish a 32-11 lead with 10:07 left in 
leers swept by Tech after 
We'll play nine or ten people a the half. 
By now the Irish had begun togame and wear teams down." 
J 
wreak havoc on the Crusaders, and Especially heartening was the when Dantley stole an in-boundsever-improving performanceof the 
splitting pair with Denver
pass and converted the layup toIrish freshinen. Forward Bruce make it 34-11, Valpo coach Bill 
J 
Flowers had anotherfine game as 
Purdin called time out. But it was by Tom Kruczek sitting out two minutes for trip­won 5-2. Irish scores were two byhe notched ten points and seven 
to no avail as ND continued to ping. Clark Hamilton, two by Kevinrebounds. Bill Laimbeer added six 
dominate, finishing the half with a Down 4-2, the Irish allowed one Nugent and one by Alex Pirus.
points. But it was little Bernard
() 58-36 lead. Instead of going home for more score by Jim Mayer before John Peterson in goal turned away 
Rencher, the 6-2 guard from East
; '( "I was still kind of rusty," said Thanksgiving, the Notre Dame they came storming back. Pirus 37 shots, while freshman sensation 
Elmhurst New York, who brought
,' 1 Dantley. "You have to give a lot of hockey team traveled up into the tallied first at 8:34, and was Jim Bales stopped 38 for the
the crowd to life with a series of creidt to my teammates. I don't wastelands of northern Michigan followed by linemate Clark Pioneers.
(J dazzling passes and remarkable 
( 
'•-assists. Rencher drew from his handle the ball that much, so I and hopped off their dogsleds at a Hamilton at 15:40 on yet anouther Scoring for Denver in the victory'/i can't score unless they give it to stop called Houghton. They were power play score. Tim Byers was Chad Campbell, Dave
assortment of behind-the-back,
" \ me. We knew they were going to not treated by the home squad as made it 5-5 with just 1:19 to play Robinson, Paul McDonnell and
~ 
pump-fake passes to hit the open
'i -i man underneath and chalk up play a zone, so we were prepared welcome arrivals, however. In assisted by Fairholm. Craig Roehl while the Irish lone < seven assists. for it. Paterno opened it up by fact Michigan Tech did everything But the cruelest blow was struck goal went to Ray Johnson. The ( hitting his shots from the outside at but desecrate the golden dome, by the officials when Brian Walsh 
•: "Bernard's amazing Pioneers netminder, Jon Bales had 
the begining." downing the Irish twice by scores was nailed with a tripping violation 38 saves while Len Moher, whosometimes," said Flowers, who 
of 5-3 and 6-5. with just 34 seconds to play. The
converted three of Rencher's played two periods, and Peterson 
passes into layups. "At the Griffin wins 2nd The Friday night encounter Juskies jumped on this, and with 11 one, combined for just 18 saves. began the way the series was to be, seconds left in regulation play, Moher was responsible for all 4
beginning I wasn't always ready, George Lyle, assisted by Stu
but now I have to be ready. When with Tech jumping on top at the Pioneer tallies, Peterson shutting
Heisman Trophy 8:14 mark of the period with Rick Ostlund and Zuke, snuck a power 
out the defensive minded Denveryou're wide open underneath the Keller scoring on assists from Pete play shot past Peterson to give squad in the final period.
basket you don't want to miss the 
NEW YORK <AP) -Archie Roberts and Chris Ferguson. 3:34 Tech a win and the series sweep.
chance." Saturday night was a different
Griffin, Ohio State's small and later Tech tallied again, this time Peterson stopped 28 Husky shots 
Though Rencher did throw some story entirely. The Pioneers came
powerful record-smashing tail­by Stu Ostlund. while Horsch made 34 saves, 13
errant passes as well as good ones, out skating', shooting and checkipg 
back, became the first colle­The Irish came back with 3:38 to coming in an excellent third period 
_:>helps believeshe'll cut down on his and nailed the Irish 4-1. Notre
giate football player in history play in the period on Clark for the Irish, who prior to this
mistakes as the season goes on. Dame missed on just about every
today to win the coveted Heis­Hamilton's goal off assists from game, have been playing well in
"Bernard's got to learn when pass attempted, proving that the
man Trophy twice. linemates Alex Pirus and Brian the first two frames,and then
and when-not situations," he said. WCHA's concept of back-to-hack
The award, symbolic of the Walsh. The first period ended that losing in the final one. After this
"But he'll come along.. He's a games can lead to some interesting
sport's best player in any given way and in the second frame Jim game, the Irish mark was 4-6. A 
super passer and I'm not going to changes in play.
year, was given to Griffin to­Mayer made it 3-1 before the final year ago at this time, the Irish 
try to change him. He's getting to 
day by the Downtown Athletic 20 minutes. were 4-5-1 in conference. The Irish are home this Fridayknow the other guys and they're Club in recognition of his un­Notre Dame came out and The previous week the Irish and Saturday, taking on the
getting to know him." a split the
equalled accomplishments­narrowed the lead to one at 5:57 gained with Denver Wisconsin Badgers each night atIt was Dantley, however, who over 5,000 yards rushing in a with Kevin Nugent scoring his Pioneers. The Pioneer's came into 7:30 p.m. Last year the Badgersagain provided most of the scoring career and 31 consecutive sixth goal of the season assisted by the series sporting a not-too im­finished with a 19-11-2 record in punch, hitting on short jumpers 
games in which he gained 100 Danny Byers. But Mike Zuke, the pressive 2-4 mark in the WCHA, conference play and in fourth and driving layups to stake the yards or more. team's leading returning scorer while the Irish were 3-3 and tied for place. Wisconsin and Notre Dame
Irish to an early lead. The 6-5 
Griffin had two and one-half from last year tallied at the 13:20 fifth place. split evenly the four games playedjunior scored 24 points in the first times as many first place votes mark and again 4:21 seconds later Friday, the Irish skated well and last year.
half, and ended the game with 12 as any other player. Running to put the game out of reach. Alex of 18 from the floor and 15 of 19 backs Chuck Muncie of Califor­Pirus make it look a bit better on a 
from the foul line. 
nia and Ricl5y Bell of Southern power play goal with 41 seconds to The Irish never trailed in the California were second and play after George Lyle was ex­
fame.-and after Bill Paterno 'hird, respectively. cused for tripping. John Peterson rejected 34 saves in the contest, 17 coming in the
SMC volleyballers end 
second period, while Bruce Horsch also stopped 34 for the Huskies. 

Saturday night, the story was nearly the same, with Tech by Deanne Dragoun Their six wins were over St. jumping in front 3-1 after the first Francis 15-9, 15-8; Bethel 15-13, 15-period, thanks to two scores by( The St. Mary's volleyball team 3, and a second time with the Lyle, and one by Bill Young. Don concluded its first season Nov. 15 scores of 15-13, 15-8; and Hun­Jackson picked up his first goal of 
season with 6-4 record 
with a record of six wins and four tington 15-8 and 15-5. the season assisted by Ray
losses. 
There was an eight-woman Johnson and Mark Olive at the 
"We did pretty well for the first varsity team and an eight-woman 14:59 point of the first period, to year," said Coach Barb B-team. cap the scoring for both teams in Burlingham. "We concentrated on ball that frame. 
The volleyball team, composed handling and ball control," said In the second period, Pirus of one senior, four sophomores and Barb, a 1970 graduate of St. tightened the Tech margin to a eleven freshmen, started their first Mary's, "and I'm looking forward single goal on a oower play 
day of practice on Sept. 12, and to seeing next year's freshmen." assisted by Paul Clarke and Walsh. played their first game on Oct. 11. Although this year's volleyball The offender who gave the Irish They played such teams as team was not on the St. Mary's the score 42 seconds into the 
I I 
Purdue-Calumet, Purdue-Fort budget, next year they will be so period, Mike Zuke, then erased the Wayne, Grace College, Taylor, St. the players are looking forward to score that he allowed by putting in Francis, Southwestern Michgan, new uniforms and better means of a power play goal with 2:25 to go in Kevin Nugent scores against Denver as the Irish split their series with Marian, Bethel and Huntington. transportation. the period as Don Fairholm was the Pioneers. 
.­
• -I 
·;; ,~.
~ \ . ~ ' 
\ 

\ 
~ 
~ 

Valparaiso's sophomore guard
:nside and the outside tonight," 
Tim Hosteltler pacea the
;aid Irish coach Digger Phelps. 
Crusaders with 20 points. Forward
·The press started the whole thing 
Tim Kizer had 14, and Dan Roark
-)ff, and we had our execution. 
and Pete Schmelzer scored ten
Defensively, we played .real good 
points each. Schmelzer was
:n the first twelve minutes of the 
Valpo's leading rebounder with
game, got a twenty point lead the 




