
OD The Inside 
Cushing Renovation 
... pg 3 Arab National Guard 
... pg 7 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX No. 78 Tuesday, February 11, 1975 
SLC votes Post-Labor Day start 
Student Government poll weighs heavily in outcome 
by Mark Jahne thing everyone agreed on." He cited the results of the Several different problems were noted in the progress survey and the economic impact upon the students of report. which was provided to allow all members a chance
Staff Reporter starting before Labor Day as his main reasons for being in to think about them prior to discussion at the next favor of the proposal. ~eeting. Topi.cs included the structuring of committees,
A proposal recommending a post-Labor day start for While in favor of the resolution, Director of Student siz~ an~ constituency of the SLC, what its advisory and-or next year's academic calendar was passed yesterday by Activities Fr. David Schlaver noted the travel conditions legislative powers are, and what to do about issues thatthe Student Life Council. The proposal states that it would 
he preferable for the 1975-76 school year to begin after the that owuld accompany a later start to the semester. "My overlap with other bodies. 
Labor Day holiday. 
concern is for those who will be travelling over the Labor T~e present ~alendar issue is a perfect example of how A strong influence upon the SLC vote was the outcome of 
Day weekend." He added that the last time classes began an Issue can mvolve two bodies. while an academic after Labor Day (Fall 1973) many students returned to calendar definitely concerns academics it also affectsa poll conducted by the Student Government Academic 
campus early. student life. Hence both the SLC and A~ademic CouncilCommission. In that poll, seventy-four percent of the students responding and seventy-five percent of the 
McLaughlin was high in his praise of those who con­end up debating the same topic. faculty expressed a desire to begin the fall semester after ducted the survey, saying, "They did a real good job on it. At the opening of the meeting, SLC Chairman and 
It's quite indicative of what students and faculty think S~udent Body Vice-President Frank Flanagan expressedLabor Day. 
about it." disple~sure because Fr. Hesburgh's letter vetoing theThis proposal will be presented to the University When asked what effect it would have upon the sexuality rule appeared in the newspaper before it showed Academic Council when they meet this afternoon. Also, Academic Council's decision, he answered, "I think up in his mail bos. The letter, which was addressed toDr. Hobert Ackerman will advise University President they'll pay strong attention to the survey." .!<'lanagan, was hand-delivered to the Observer offices onFr. Theodore Hesburgh of the SLC vote in a letter he is Other general discussion was centered around a Thursday night, Jan. 30, and was published the next day. 
presently drafting. The proposal passed the SLC vote Pasily. with nineteen members in favor, none in dissent, progress report submitted to the entire SLC by its T.he copies intended for Flanagan and others were 
"Committee on the Future of the SLC." The committee is mailed, and thus not received until the following Monday. 
and two abstentions. 
chaired by Denis Sullivan. and includes Prof. Paul Con­The Observe•· published it under the mistaken belief that Student Body President Pat McLaughlin noted that the way, Mrs. Maureen Gleason, Bro. Just Paczesny and if they had a copy, so did all those who were intended to
sole purpose of the resolution is to put the SLC on record as in favor of the post-Labor Day start, since, "That's the reporter Dr. Robert Ackerman. receive one 
Academic Council meets today 
Calendar history recalled 
GOLDRUSH '75 closed Sunday night after 10 successful days in Stepan f'~nter (Photo by Harry Bush) 
Gold Rush'75 ends; charity festivities considered success 
by Val Zurblis Staff Reporter 
''Gold Rush '75" came to a close Sunday night after 10 days of blackjack, poker, and dice games at Western-style booths in Stepan Center. 
Mardi Gras chairman, Dan Sullivan said that profit totals have not been totaled because all the bills have not been paid yet. Heturned lumber, stuffed animals, popcorn, and other materials must be accounted for before final profits can be tabulated. 
In 1968, its most successful year, Mardi Gras made $22,000. Only $5,000 was made in 1973, and $19,000 was cleared last year. "The average usually runs from $8,000 to $12,000 per carnival" Sullivan stated. 
The final event of Mardi Gras was the raffle drawing held Sunday night. John P. O'Brien of F'ranklin Park, Illinois won the first prize, Dodge Dart and Junior Partricia Willing of Lyons Hall won the student prize, a color television. Sullivan said the raffle made money, but, the total has not yet been determined. 
Grace Hall surpassed the winner of many years in monetary totals of the individual booths. Keenan's "Bordello" had a strong lead all week long until the last day when Grace's "Funeral Parlor" surpassed them by $30. A $100 bonus was given to the winning dorm. 
In the booth design category, Walsh Hall's "Saloon" came in first. followed by Grace, the "Morris E. Lyons Savings and Loan Bank" and the Ombudsman "Fort Om". A $50 prize was given to the winner. 
The security force run by Gene Laurich cut down on cheating, according to Sullivan. Security people as well as "undercover agents" who mixed with the people watched for any suspicious behavior. "This year was an improvement over last year," commented Sullivan. 
During the week free frisbees, key chains, and kazoos were given away. and free admissions encouraged people to attend. En­tertainment by Wind. Talisman and Steve Goodman also helped bring crowds to the cha' ty carnival. 
"Despite adverse economic conditions" commented Sullivan, "this year's Mardi Gras was an overwhelming success due to the enthusiasm of the booth committees and the general student body. To these people we extend our sincere gratitude." 
·'Finally, we would like to thank the HPC for all the care concern and guidance wich they have provided throughout the course of hte carnival." he added. 
Midnight tonight is the deadline for taking down booths. The official figures of "Gold Rush '75" will be announced next week. 
by Ken Bradford council's calendar choice would Kersten refused to discuss the 
Starr Repo•·ter not be very probable. issue with the Davis committee 
Following Guiffrida 's statement, 'because it was "too early in his a committee of students, headed political career." The Academic Council will meet by freshman Mike Davis, an­Davis added that Academic today to discuss proposals for next nounced the circulation of a Council student members emerged 
vear's academic calendar. petition to request a change in the as the heroes in the controversy · The major controversy is proposed calendar. The petition t>ven though they originally voted whether to begin the fall semester stated. "The academic schedule as for the pre-Labor Day start. before Labor Day or after the planned would cause excessive In December, 1972, Burtchaell holiday. Fr. James Burtchaell, hardships on many students due to announced that the Academic university provost, leads the forces the early opening of school and the · Council would once again consider 
favoring a pre-Labor Day start, shortness of breaks. We, the un­a pre-Labor Day start, this time while various student and faculty dersigned, request that the for the 1973-74 academic year. groups have favored the post-Labor University Academic Council Burtchaell noted there would be Day start. reconsider the schedule for the two vacation package options. The 
The history of the calendar 1972-73 academic year." first option included a one-week controversy can be traced to the Within one week, the committee Thanksgiving break and a long major restructuring of the procured 3,400 signatures to the weekend in October. The second semester schedule in December, petition and influenced ten council option included a week-long break 1969. Prior to the 1969 revisions, members to request a reconvening at midterm and a long weekend for the fall semester ended three of the council to discuss the Thanksgiving. Under Burtchaell's weeks after the end of the calendar issue. plan. holy days of obligation would 
Christmas vacation. On March 22, 1972, over the no longer be rlass days. 
The University Administration student's spring break, the council The Burtchaell proposal was drafteda calendar which concluded met and adopted a calendar submitted near the end of the the fall semester before Christmas scheduling classes to begin after semester When campus but allowed only one break, a four Labor Day. The calendar, which pulblica tions had closed for the and one-half day weekend for allowed a six-day Thanksgiving final examinations and semester 
Thanksgiving. Classes were held break. passed the council by a 33-15 break. The Academic Council met on all legal holidays and on holy vote. before Christmas and once again days of obligation during the fall approved a pre-Labor Day start by semester. A break in the spring a 28-19vote. A motion by Guiffrida semester lasted nine days. to table discussion until student 
The faculty was given an op­Administration beaten opinion could be accurately portunity to evaluate the change measured was voted down, 21-19.. and 79 per cent approved the new Guiffrida noted, "It's the first calendar. The Student Senate also time to my knowledge that the supported the Adminsitration by a Administration got beat in the 26-4 vote. Academic Council." nonrl of sec1·ec)' cited 
In March. 1972, Burtchaell noted Burtchaell then reiterated his 
the semester without the break rationale behind the Pre-Labor An Obsener editorial by editor­
was "very fatiguing" and Day start. He daimed the new in-chief Jerry Lutkus complained 
proposed that the 1972-73 academic schedule contained only 66 class that the calendar vote was held in a 
calendar include a three-day days. not enough for an accredited "cloud of secresy" and charged
weekend in October and an eight­institution. Burtchaell added that the Administration with 
day break for Thanksgiving. there was a need for a break deliberately releasing the in­
The University Academic earlier in the semester. formation after the student press
Council approved the Burtchaell Davis later complained that the could handle the issue. 
plan which called for an August 31 calendar was being manipulated The University Administration 
start. the earliest start in the as a political issue alone and that discovered that the proposed
school's history. Responding to an the mechanics of the calendar calendar conflicted with a 
immediate negative response to proposals and the 3,400 signatures previously-scheduled Mobile 
the early start, Fred Guiffrida, had little to do with the council's Home Show in the ACC and 
student council member, an­decision. He disclosed that newly­decided upon a calendar with a 
nounced that reversing the elected Prime Mover R. Calhoun 
(continued on e 6) 

PLACEMENT BUREAU lines are now incredibly long stressing the tough competition in the job market. Sign-up lines now begin forming at 4:00 A.M. 
By BERNARD BRENNER 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -The food stamp allotment for needy families does not cover the cost of a basic economy diet, government figures showed Monday. 
In December, the latest month for which figures were available, the government's basic economy diet plan was estimated to cost $159.50 monthly for a family of two adults and two school-age children. 
The food stamp allotment for that month was $150 for such a family -$9.50 or 6.6 per cent below the diet's cost. 
Under a semi-annual adjust­ment procedure, the stamp allotment was raised to $154 per month on Jan. 1 below the monthly estimate for Decem­ber. 
Agriculture Department spe­cialists predict a 7 or 8 per cent increase in retail food prices by mid-summer, but the monthly stamp allotment for a family of four will remain at the $154 level until July 1. 
It will then be adjusted to equal the estimated cost of an economy diet in February. 
President Ford had ordered an increase in the prices needy families must pay for their food stamps, but Congress over­whelmingly passed a bill nullifying the order. Ford has so far neither signed nor vetoed the bill. 
Some 17 million Americans use the stamps, which they purchase at a discount for redeemption at full value at the grocery store. 
The controversy over stamp purchase prices does not affect the level of the monthly allotment. 
Families of equal sizes are entitled to equal allotments, but the amount they must pay for the allotment varies according to family income. 
If the Ford administration's pricing change were to take effect. nearly all stamp beneficiaries would have to pay 30 per cent of their adjusted gross income for their stamp allotment instead of the present 23 per cent average. 
Stamp allotments vary with family size, currently ranging from $46 monthly for a single person to $266 for an eight­person household. 
The semi-annual adjustment system replaced a yearly calculation program in 1973 as an attempt to end gaps between stamp allotments and economy diet plan costs. 
FRESHMAN FOCUSPOINT 
sponsored by 
WSNDAM 
Freshman Advisory Council presents 
An Evening with Fr Hesburgh 

TONIGHT 
lOPM-llPM 
on 
WSND 64 
Jazz Band plays in ]im Ward Benefit 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band and several small combos will perform on Wednesday night in Washington Hall as part of the Jim Ward Benefit Weekend. 
The first half of the program will be devoted to small group jazz and will feature the work of the NDJB Combo which includes Joe Hickner on Trombone, Mike 
Baker on trumpet, Ed Byrnes and Dexter Gourdin on tenor saxes, Joel Burian and Henry Ramirez on keyboards, Archie Nero and Michael Jackson on bass, Eric Philippsenon guitar and Steve Calonje on drums. Also on this small group portion of the program will be Erg's Finger Circus with Charles Rohrs and Mike 
Stalter! on saxes, Jim Tucci on trumpet, Mike Nickerson on bass, Neil Gillespie on piano, 
ON VALENTINE'S DAY FLOWERS SAY:LOVE 

ORDER NOW 

FLOWERS ARE AS NEAR AS YOUR PHONE STARTING AT $10.00 ­SENT ANYWHERE 
~ 

'tl l 
'" \('r.tA r. O" r.
nO w.r•w. '""' 

CHARGE IT • WE DELIVER SOUTH BEND 287 5728 
Kevin Chandler on guitar and Ken Sca~r~ol!:!a~o~n~d!!:r~um~s....,;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~~i;;;;;iii~i;;;ii;iiii;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~i;;ii;;;;·o;;i;;;;i;;;;;ii;i;;;ii;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;-i 
Appearing as guest soloist with both of these small groups will be tenor saxophonist, Curtis Johnson. A resident of South Bend, Curtis Johnson is an exciting mainstream jazz artist who has played with the Louis Jordan band and who is currently leading his own group around town. He appeared last spring an guest soloist with the NDJB in their "Directions in Jazz" concert. 
The second half of the program will be presented by the big band under the direction of Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C. The NDJB program will feature many big band styles from early Count Basie, jazz ballads and on into some current rock oriented arrangements. Featured soloists from the NDJB will include Charles Rohrs, Mike Stalteri and 
Ed Byrnes on saxes, Joe Hickner on trombone, Tom Burke, Rick Stagl and Tony Fransway on trumpet and Scott Wilson on piano. 
This benefit concert by the Notre Dame Jazz Bands will begin at 
10:00 PM and a donation of 50 cents is requested. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame •d St. Mary's College. Sub5crlptlons may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box" Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class postilge paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

heart with fifteen-inch chain, $148. Sterling s.ilverheart with fifteen-inch chain,; 34. 


DFFANY&CO. 
CHICAGO 715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE • ZIP: 60611• TEL: (312) 944-7506 Pl&ase add sales lax where applicable Design© T. & Ca. 

:JriJa'J, :Jet. 14 
A. Assorted Chocolates 
B. Fancy Heart C,D. Red Foil Hearts 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
I 
r 
I I 
f 
r 
I 
~ 
r 
I 
Tuesday, February 11, 1975

2 
the observer 

warld briefs 
Washington llPI -Sen. George McGovern, D-8.D., said Monday night he will introduce a bill to forbid the use of American advisers for "military, paramilitary, police or other security or intelligence forces" in Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos. 
Such a prohibition already exists regarding Cambodia, and it is the basis of the Paris Peace Accord, McGovern said in a prepared Senat£ speech, but the principle also should be written into American law. 
Jt>rusalem liPJ -Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger began meeting with Israeli leaders Monday night, "hopeful" of working toward agreement between Israel and Egypt on a further Israeli troop pullback east of the Suez Canal. . . 
Kissinger and his key assistants held a two-hour workmg dmner with Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and his leading ministers after the secretary flew here to begin a 10 day tour of the Middle l<~ast and Europe. 
Nt>w York liPJ-Supreme Court Justice William 0. Douglas, 76, partly paralyzed by a stroke on New Year's Eve, still cann?t use. his left leg and his doctors fear he may never walk agam, Time magazine reported Sunday. 
Addis Ababa liJ>J-A Sudanese envoy met with military rulers of Ethiopia Monday in an effort to end the 13 year war between government troops and rebel forces fighting for the independence of the northern province of Eritrea. 
an c:ampus taday 
3:30pm ··computer course, "lntro to fortran", 113 computer center 4:30pm .. colloquim,"recent develolments in the theory of closed geodesics," by prof. w. klingenberg, 226 comp. cen. 4:30pm--lecture, "fungal superinfection.'' by dr. ek. beneke, 278 galvin 5 pm --vespers, evensong, log chapel 7 pm .. mass, anniversary commemoration of our lady of lourdes, grotto (if inclement weather, sacred heart) • 7 pm --lecture, "malnutrition in the world.'' by dr. r. chamblee, carroll hall 7:15pm--mass, charismatic mass, holy cross chapel 
7:30 pm .. lecture, transcendental meditation, library lounge 7:30-9:30 pm --dance, faculty lessons with fran demarco, Iafortune ballroom 8 pm --meeting, nd backpacking club, all welcome, Iafortune aud. 8 pm .. lecture, hans morgenthau, library auditorium 
Inadequacy shown 
Food sta1nps studied 



Tuesday, February 11, 1975 the observer 
Several possibilities exist 
Cushing Hall renovation remains indefinite 
by Mike Lyons Staff Reporter 
Dr. Joseph C. Hogan, dean of the College of Engineering, stated yesterday that actual construction on the renovation and expansion of the forty-Qne-year-Qld Cushing Hall of Engineering would not begin for at \cast three months. 
Plans have yet to be finalized for the project. and the primary alternatives include an addition to the South of the present building (Cushing Ham or possibly an entirely new site with emphasis on underground facilities. Hogan explained that this is only the first phase of a long-range plan to eventually house all the engineering departments and labs in one complex. 
According to Hogan: "We did a complete study on long-range needs and then we went into the schematic stage. This means determining the possibilities within Phase I, and then selecting the best. This is where we are right now. 
"We are moving along very earefully. we've spent about three months on this study and I think it will prove to be time extremely well spent." 
Hogan said that inadequate 
l'Xpansion  of  facilities  to  meet  
increased  demands  makes  the  
building  project  absolutely  
essential.  ''We have  been in  a  

Up'Ward Bound progra1n needs student volunteers to tutor 
by Mary Pat Tarpey six-week academic program is Staff Repcrter 
held during the summer. Courses 
Upward Bound Director Archie Bradford stated Monday that he is looking for student volunteers to help with the project. 
The Upward Bound program is a federally funded pre-college program designed for the tenth grade, low-income student who has the potential to succeed in college but has had neither motivation, preparation nor the opportunity. 
The average students par­ticipating in this program, ac­cording to Bradford, come into the program with a grade point average between a C-and a B-. The family income is in accord with the low-income-criteria established by the United States Commissioner of Education. The participants possess the aspiration to attend college, and exhibits a need for better preparation. 
The project, which was founded in 1966 by the Urban Studies In­stitute, is basically year-round. In an effort to introduce and expose students to a college atmosphere, a 
SCI lecture series continues tonight in Library Lounge 
The second lecture in the Science of Creative Intelligence (SCil series will be given Tuesday, Feb. 11, at 7:30p.m. in the Library Lounge. 
The lecture series, provided in response to a "surprising growth of student interest in tran­scendental meditation," will be offered two or more times every week. Transcendental meditation has gained popularity because "the students' systems become freer from the tensions that are restrict!ng their performances," accordmg to Rob Car~sllo, Students' International Meditation Society (SIMS) president. 
Each lecture in the SCI series will be a self-contained in­troduction. While transcendental meditation needs some ex­planation, most students quickly understand that the discipline is very useful to learn and is com­pletely unrelated to any far-fetched Eastern ideas, according to Carsello. 
critical space situation for quite a while. All departments are living with 930 facilities and they're all greatly in need." 
Professor Don Linger, chairman of the civil engineering depart­ment commented that it is necessary for a professor to do research to keep abreast of his field, and that such research is impossible to do with the available space. He sees such a situation as detrimental to the quality of the faculty and staff since it is "dif­ficult to get and hold faculty if there are no facilities for them to do needed research." 
Linger applauded the expansion 
program and went on to say: 'I 
have a structures class of ap­
proximately 50 students, and when 
we go down to lab we are prac­
tically on top of each other. This 
situation becomes very dangerous 
when these cramped conditions 
are combined with the use of 
strong acids which may easily be 
spilled. If we are to educate, we 
need more space." 
Miss Eileen Conely, head of the 
engineering library, pointed out 
that books belonging in the library 
are spread out in several locations 
rather than combined in one 
collection. "This greatly hampers 
the service I am able to give the 
students." 
Conley said that all departments 
are hoping for as much space as 
possible. "We need space and we 
are offered including Math, Science, Language, Arts and Social Sciences. 
Along with the set curriculum, activities are planned to aid the cultural development of the students as well as a source of recreation. The students live in dormitories with a regular staff among which are several Notre Dame students. 
During the school year, tutoring and counseling sessions are held in O'Shaughnessy Hall on Saturday mornings. These tutoring sessions are to aid the participants with their present school work. Counseling regarding financial assistance and general college planning is also available. 
Upon completion of high school, the graduates attend a summer component where college credit is given in two subject areas. The driving force behind this program is the motivation of the students. 
"Upward Bound takes care of all the students' needs; emotional and social as well as academic.'' stated Bradford. He further explained, "Our staff doesn't work llpward 
TEMPERATURES IN South Bend proceed to be the opposite of the sunny beaches as the mercury dipped to -13 degrees Sunda night. 
SPRING BREAK TRIP TO 



MONTEGO BAY 
JAMAICA 
ROUND TRIP VIA AIR JAMAICA FROM DETROIT 8 DAYS, 7 NIGHTS AT LUXURIOUS MONTEGO BAY HOLIDAYINN .MARCH 22-29 $332 per person 
$50 DEPOSITS DUE BY FRI. FEB 14! CALL 272-9895 OR STOP BY S.U. TICKET OFFICE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. 
SPONSORED BY ST. JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY 
need a lot of it. We have many books in temporary storage at the Main Library because our shelves are packed. 
Dr. K.T. Yang, chairman and professor of the aerospace and mechanical engineering rlepart­ment, agreed that there was no question of the need for expansion: 
"We have a lot of good equipment that we have built up over the years and we need a place to put it. Every usable space is used. 
"In the past we have been taking good usable equipment and putting 
more urgent things in.  This is the  
kind  of  problem  we  are  faced  
with."  

Heferring to laboratory con­ditions Yang said, "You don't even have a place to walk around." He commented that a great deal of work was being done on the project with meetings being held almost daily. 
Financial support of this first phase expansion will come from various sources. The "Summa" fund. the University's most recent formal development campaign, will provide $1.5 million. Ac­cording to Dean Hogan, a fund drive is presently underway to attempt to match this amount, making a total of $3 million. 
Letters to alumni soliciting contributions were sent out January 20. 
Hogan re-emphasized that the project is only the first phase of a 
Bound, they live it. We create a family atmosphere." 
The branch of Upward Bound located in the Rockne Memorial, serves the Joseph County residents although most of the participating students are from the South Bend area. A few Notre Dame students are presently working as tutors for the program on Saturday mornings. Bradford I noted that although between 15-20 students volunteer in the beginning of lhe year, the numbers dwindle due to conflict of schedule, or a general disinterest. 
Any one interested in aiding the tutoring program is encouraged to come in or call the upward Bound Office and talk to either Bradford or Elizabeth Wappenstein, ad­ministrative assistant. 
Unfortunately, observed Bradford, "The program can't afford to expand. TherE: is no in­crease in our funding although there is inflation. We could have an excellent program if we had more money." 
The "Upward Bound Family" includes 56 students with a maximum of 80 during the summer session. 

CU~HING HALL of Engineering's expansion program will not begm for at least three months. The long range plan is to even­tually house all departments and labs in one complex. 
bigger plan: "Already, $1.5 Disadvantages, however, do million has been set aside for exist. According to Hogan, "Not improvement of facilities in the very many people want to go un­college, and we want to make sure derground. Psychological factors that whatever we build with that come into play, so we may build will fit into our long range goals." something quite conventional. Itis 
The committee is considering really not settled yet." construction of underground Responsibility for the final job, facilities as a possible alternative, will be assumed by Ellerbe Ar­Hogan said. He cited advantages ehitects-Engineers-Planners, Inc., as including less cost per square of Bloomington, Minnesota. They foot. absence of exterior main-handled the recent renovation and tenance and great savings on expansion of the Law School and of energy costs. Haggar Hall. 
1\.:0THE I>Al\IE SAILING C'LllB PRESENTS 
2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY 
TUES., FEB. 11 & WED., FEB. 12 7:30 and 1 0 p.m. 
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM $1.00 

7 Sty I ists • Full Time Manicurist · Full Service Salon 

Edison & St. Rd. 23 
Far Appt. 272-7222 FOR MEN 
MONDAY & TUESDAY ARE NOTRE DAME NIGHTS 
ITALIAN FOODS 
TO GET AT FRANKIE'S 
COMPLETE DINNERS 

Bavioli  $2.:10  
Spaghetti  $2.75  
Lasagna  $2.75  
\'cal Parmigana  $2.75  

l'itchers of Reer $1.50 while viewing our giant ~' X 7 T.V. 



SUDS 
AND LISTEN 
~Sizu/a~
. NO COVER CHARGE TUES.WED-THURS 
on U.S. 31 Ntween Nies. So. B•d-FrM Partin&·683-43SO 

THE OBSERVER 
A"' INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editorial: 283-8661  News: 283-1715  :Business: 283-7471  
Fred Graver  Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief  Terry Keeney News Editor  
Editorial Editor  
AI Rutherford  Bob Zogas  
Bob McManus Advertising Manager  Managing Editor  Business Manager  

Tuesday, February 11, 1975 

The Calendar: A Community Effort 
favoring an academic calendar begin­"Next year we can have a better ning after Labor day. Yesterday, the
discussion because we will have a
Student Life Council voted to endorse
experienced (the calendar). start. vote was
post-Labor day The
Today's discussion was based 
unanimous, with two abstentions.
purely on conjecture. If people Father Burtchaell has stated that thearen't satisfied next fall, believe primary issue in the debate over the 
me, we'll know about it." one of a choice bet­
calendar has been 
ween a post-Labor day start and a long
Fr. James Burtchaell, University break in October. The faculty, students, 
Provost, after final passing of this and the mem hers of the Administration 
year's Academic Calendar. on the SLC have shown that they prefer a 
Today, a proposal will be made at the post-Labor day start and are somewhat 
Academic Council meeting to retain this indifferent to the week-long October 
year's calendar for use next year. break. 
Judging from the sentiments expressed It would seem ludicrous for the 
by diverse elements of the University Academic Council to pass today's 
community in yesterday's poll, to pass proposal against the mounting disap­
this proposal would be a great disservice proval of the University community over 
to that communiity. the existing calendar. 
From the beginning of the academic And yet, it should be noted, the year, the calendar has proved disfunc-Council is starting off on a bad foot by the lional. The pre-Labor day start found very nature of today's vote. The proposal little favor among students and faculty concerns itself with keeping this year's members. Students found that the early calendar, saying nothing about rejecting start caused economic difficulties the calendar. That will take another resulting from loss of summer earnings. proposal. There should be an easier Faculty members, especially those who way. taught in summer sessions, found the If the proposal is vetoed, and a new early return burdensome, as they had proposal brought forth, it should address little chance to take a summer vacation. itself to one of two calendars. The first 
The mid-semester break, billed by the would contain a post-Labor Day start and Provost as a long-needed rest, met with no mid-semester break and a long mixed disapproval among students and Thanksgiving break; the second would faculty. Many saw it necessary only feature a post-Labor Day start with short because of the pre-Labor day return. breaks at both mid-semester and Twenty-three percent of the student body Thanksgiving. These two seem to be the stayed on campus, and only a little more most favorable options for most of the than half felt that the break was University community. necessary. The majority opinion of the Last year, there was little room for faculty polled stated that the break had input from any section of the University little, if any, effect on their classes. outside the Academic Council. This year, 
Aside from the opinions expressed in the various constituencies have taken the the poll, there have been two other opportunity to make their positions on the substantial actions taken on the calendar issue known. As jFr. Burtchaell calendar. Last Wednesday the Faculty has stated "The calendar issue is much Senate unanimously passed a resolution more a community issue than the com-DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau m unity now realizes." It is time to put 
,.-.-------l~h;.;;a;.;;.t-;!'latement to the test. 
Editorial Board.

@@L ~ 808, I HAVG SAIP 
~ THIS 8l:Fa<£, J/Nf)r(f' I /J/1/..L 54Y IT Jk3.4/N­
the observer 
: I HAP IIBSOt.IJTli't.Y NO PR/fR KAOIIUIJ6G a=-7JE !¥CE5SIONI 
...._______ 

Night Editor: Mike Strlckroth Asst. Night Editor: Ginny Faust 
Layout: Maureen 
Day Editor: Bnh Radziewicz 
Sports: Bill Brink 
Copy Readers: Ken Bradford, Jeanne Murohv. Jim Edf!r 
Features: J.R. Baker, Miss Faust 
STRAN6LEP. 

Editorials: Fred Graver,  John  
NEXTJIJZK  Amantea  
8/JTCW/:1/F IJIE'/(E BEING  Typists:  Neal Viii, Karen  Hinks,  

Bard Norcross, A. Peeler, Martha Fanning
""' 

Pictures: Albert Compugraphic: Bob Steinmetz 
Niaht Controller: Tim Murphy 
Ace Picture Finder: AndyPraschak 
left: in the lurch 
Lewis Hall hur:~h harman 
The predicted has come to pass. Lewis Hall, through the closed door decision of Fr. Burtchaell's committee, has been given to the undergraduate women while the graduates living there have been unceremoniously shipped off to Badin Hall. 
As usual, this decision has been made without any student input or sampling of student opinion. In fact, the rectresses of the respective halls were not even given the courtesy of consultation and were notified only hours before the decision was announced. The secrecy with which the Administration operates in practically all its decisions is uncalled for and, above all, indefensible. 
The Lewis-Badin decision has generally been accepted by the <male) undergraduate community as a "sound" decision and a "good stop-gap measure", and with small wonder. After three years of muscial dorms, with five male halls being converted for the women, it was undoubtedly felt that the loss of a sixth dorm for the fourth straight year might arouse a bit of undergraduate wrath. Consequently, the Administration followed its time-honored game plan: Step on the Toes that Complain the Least. 
Lewis Hall is practically the perfect graduate women's dor­mitory. Consisting of all singles and located off the beaten paths, the hall can provide the prerequisite quiet needed by those grad students who must spend up to 16 hours a day studying (and many do <unfortunately) It is feared by the graduate women now living in Lewis that with Badin's central location the noise and the brouhaha of the south quad will make study in the hall all but im­possible. 
Moreover, Lewis Hall, unlike Badin, provides many of the facilities necessary for a viable graduate community, including study rooms. kitchens, and a large basement lounge used as a social activities area by male and female grad students alike. Kitchens are· the most vital feature since the majority of women in Lewis do not or cannot afford to purchase the dining hall meal tickets, preferring to prepare their own food in the hall kitchens. 
In addition. the grads of Lewis are moving from the reasonably modern, large singles of that hall to the much smaller, ancient rooms in Badin, while the undergrads in Badin are being forced to change from the singles of their centrally located hall to the small doubles of a hall further away from the center of the university. Apparently the only group really gaining from this switch is the University, able to pack more students into the same space. 
Concomitant with the Administration's appropriation of Lewis has been a promise of a grad student apartment complex (not a dorm l to be built somewhere on the far reaches of Notre Dame, 
<e.g. north of University Village) and to be ready for occupancy by the fall of 1976. Of course, this promise has all the look of a bone thrown out to keep the rabble from making too much of an uproar. As of yet. there are a few <oldl architectural plans for such a complex, no site chosen for such a complex, and, moreover, no funds for such a complex. In fact, Prof. Robert Gordon, head of Advance Studies, candidly stated that he thought "it would be close to a miracle" if such a complex could be built and ready for oc­cupancy by the fall of 1976. What will happen to the refugee grads in Badin when, at that time, the complex is unfinished, no one knows. Apparently there is a strong chance that Badin Hall will become a "halfway-house to off-campus." 
Currently. attempts are being made for a reversal, although chances for such an extraordinary action are bleak indeed. Still, with a newly resurrected Graduate Student Union leading the protest, there is the chance for some action, at the very least ser­ving notice that such actions in the future on the part of the Ad­ministration will not be accepted quietly. 
Moreover, the Administration can, hopefully, be kept to its commitment to a graduate student apartment complex. Having been ignored for so long by the Powers That Be, the housing needs of the graduate student now have this promise of fulfillment. Now is the timt• to push for it. 
Another aspect of the Lewis Hall situation, one that has been overlooked to some degree, concerns the number of nuns living in that hall. Since its construction in 1965 by the Lewis Foundation, Lt>wis Hall has officially been designated as a convent: the plaque hanging in the Lewis Hall lounge states that the hall is "Dedicated to the Amt>rican Nun." Since the number of nuns connected with Notre Dame has dropped over the intervening decade, however, a number of female graduate students were allowed to live in Lewis with the knowledge that they were officially guests of the Sisters. Two years ago, Fr. Hesburgh, speaking in Lewis Hall, stated that the hall would always be the home of the Sisters. Now, suddenly, the Sisters remaining in Lewis Hall have been told, not asked, not requested, but told that they will have to move from their hall to a makeshift halfway-house. More than a few of the Sisters in the hall have vocally denounced the utter disregard in the Administration's pronouncement, but as usual have received no satisfactory response. 
As usual. the decision shows the extent of the Administration's continuing commitment to and concern with the graduate student. They practically ignore them. Not one single structure on this campus, dorm or otherwise, has been built for the use and benefit of graduate students. The dormitories currently occupied by them, Carroll, Brownson, and Lewis, are all hand-me-downs. Carroll was given to the grads when it was deemed too run-down for the un­dergrads living there (and that is not an exaggeration). The grads in Brownson are guests of the Brothers of that hall. 
The administration's non-concern for graduate students has been highlighted by the appearance of Fr. ~urtchaell and Sr. Jones at Badin Hall Thursday night. The arrival of both the Provost and the Assistant to the Provost at the discussion there, in contrast to the lone appearance of Professor Gordon at Lewis Hall Wednesday night, asks an obvious question, one that is echoed in the policy of barring Lewis Hall residents from the meeting with Fr. Burtchaell et al. Is it that the graduate students are not entitled to an explanation from as high an Administration official as the undergrads? Fr. Burtchaell suggested that Prof. Gordon, head of Advanced Studies, was "sent because he is directly involved with the grad~:~ate students", perhaps implying a similar lack of in­volvement elsewhere. 
Luckily, one resident from Lewis was able to sneak into the closed meeting and ask Father Burtchaell a number of questions which had not been satisfactorily answered. On the matter if Fr. Hesburgh's statement concerning the position of Lewis Hall as a convent, he replied that that question "needs no comment." When asked whether Badin Hall would represent a half-way house to off­campus, Burtchaell stated that it was not "necessary to say no". The answers and the sarcastic tone with which they were delivered speak for themselves. 

Tuesday, February 11, 1975 the observer 
'the school for lovers' at s.m.c. 
a preview by mary margaret sheeran 
sea of poison. The state of opera is indeed There must be something about opera, tenuous. Mter all, it is difficult to acceptsomething besides the fact that "other Romeo and Juliet resurrecting for "just one people call it an art form so it must be true, more duet" before they finally die off.
but I can't stand it." And, indeed, there is Still, there is much to be said for a playsomething absolutely absurd about an completely done with music, gloriousaudience which sits stupidly, passively, and costumes, and clever performers. Thewhich, all the while, pretends to appreciate music of Cosi fan tutte is sheer delight from the "higher culture" erupting before their beginning to end: light, three dimensional, eyes and into their ears. 
and enjoyable to listen and watch. But when the opera IS performed in 
The Piccolo Opera Company is a pioneerEnglish, the picture alters slightly. This is in the mid-west. Begun by lyric-coloraturathe case with Cosi fan tutte, the Mozart Marjorie Gordon whose background in­opera, or opera burra. which the Piccolo cludes performing with the New YorkOpera Comapny of Detroit will be presen­
ting to our community at O'Laughlin Opera Company ,the ensemble is composed Auditorium on Tuesday evening. Cosi fan primarily of Michigan residents. The 
tutte will be sung in English which means special "mission" <'f this very successful and internationlly recognized company is to
that the words, music, and action will be provide more people with exposure to thecombined in one, beautiful, understandable art of opera. Their repertoire is dominated 
whole for those of us who are not intimate with the Italian language. That's only by the chamber opera, a few children's 
operas, and full length productions of Cosicommon sense. 
fan tutte and Die Fledermaus. The 
Thus the title becomes The School for repertoire shows a preference for the comic Lovers or So Do They All, referring to the operas, and the performances are always · irresistable urge of ladies to flirt with done in English.handsome men of the opposite sex. Hmm. 
In addition to this tantalizing subject Cosi fan tutte was requested by Joseph II, matter, a common theme of Mozart's day, Emperor of Austria, in 1789, and was we also have Mozart's music which tran­designed for the tastes of the court. Two sforms the feared opera into a prize. Mozart years later, the delightful Magic Flute writes delicious music in his operas, would be created, after which an exhausted especially in Figaro, Don Giovanni, andCosi and depressed turned to a Requium which ran tutte. Characterizations are brought to was never finished.. His burial was unat­a fuller depth with every note sung. There is tended, unmarked, and silent. Silent, that no such thing as a stale aria where the ac­is, except fi>r the magic which survives him. tion or reaction ceases; rather people are The performance on Tuesday evening at 8 constantly alive, thinking, and feeling in P.M. is a part of St. Mary's Performing Arts that delightful way Mozart causes them to Series, which means that SMC students be alive, thinking, and feeling. Combined One word about the music. Mozart will have already paid for their tickets. So don't with a competant company, the stage glows not put us to sleep! Many of us are of the do your homework Tuesday night. Come to with sound, color, and the inter-action with opinion that opera is outdated, perhaps The School for Lovers and let's enjoy our­an alive audience. because the form is abused in modern selves instead! 
tales of change within the sound 
a review by bill smith 
J<'or some, complexity in music is nothing ''Siberian Khatru," and, of course, edited, economical fusion of sounds, fury, Yes' sound. It begins with what has become more than complicated boredom. This is the "Roundabout." "Roundabout" was all they and sensitive melodies. a Yessian adaptation of the classical inert feeling I get when I am forced to got. And they (we l were lucky to get that. The lay-out of Relayer, which gets its title technique of the idee fixe. Pat Moraz, the listen to early Pink Floyd. For others, it is Ht•layet·, their eighth album, is a profound from the lyrics of Tales, is similar to the newest addition to the group, opens the song the structuring and precise sculpturing of reascertion of this attitude towards growth song arrangement on their Close to the Edge with a highly recognizable, wispy "tinkling" the sounds to produce, as all artists hope, a and thematically concentrated com­album. There is an extended composition of the piano. This airy atmosphere is then masterpiece. This is the perfection I have positions. As a result, Yes has made their <one whole side), entitled, "The Gates of craftily smashed apart by Alan White's a!ways experienced after listening to music virtually impossible to recreate Delerium," and two other shorter works, thundering drumming and Chris Squire's Vivaldi, Stravinsky, the Beatles, Yes, and a without a high degree of expertise. "Sound Chaser" and "To Be Over." At first bass lines. The song proceeds with Steve few others. But for Yes, and the musicians "Roundabout" can be heard refrained by glance this appears to be a copying of the Howe demonically leading the rest of the of Yes. complexity has become the stan­any two-bit talented band. The point here is style that made C to t E a more widely band through several related themes, with -4 dard. if not the formula, for success. not necessarily that more energy -more received album than Tales was; but after the idee fixe popping up here and there 
From their inception to their latest thought -has gone into the production of the first listening to, this theory does not leading the song through imaginativerelease. lh•layer, Yes has had an intense, these recent albums. hold, if you please, water. transitions. almost maniacal, concentration with the Naturally, extra effort "does not a good "Sound Chaser" and "To Be Over" are 
The other shorter selection is "To Be
ordering and precisional detailing of their we seen nothing like the "supposedly" comparable 
album make" as have with the Over." This song does not have the fiery
music. There was some limited evidence of ignorant, yet substantial, disenchantment ''And You and I" and "Siberian Khatru." 
soloing in it that "Sound Chaser" has; butthis in their earlier recordings like with Yes' somewhat esoteric, four part, These two newer cuts rather, are rather it is the gradual shaping and"Roundabout." "Starship Trooper," and Tales from Topographic Oceans. The major reminiscent of the four movements that restructuring of a simple melody into a"South Side of the Sky," but these were flaw being, not enough melodic en­comprised Tales, but in a tighter format. 
dramatic puncuastion of hhe lyrical ac­mostly intricate little songs that still tertainment for "the masses." Tales' Appreciably they have maintained the count. And, as with all of Yes'lyrics, there is remain, despite, their progressive at­assuredly, is by no means a failure <it's a experience, and the musicianship they have a certain amount of vagueness that hidestributes. rock-and-roll. This was clear gold album l, however it does lose grips with acquired since the recording of their album what they're actually singing about.
mough when Yes played at Notre Dame last a lot of Yes fans that had come, over time, to Ft·agile. 
Nevertheless, in this case, and for the mostsemPster. The crowd <the masses) had enjoy Yes' tonic-layered musical moods. By The song "Sound Chaser" is the best part -the rest of this album, there is acoml' to hear "Yours is No Disgrace," design therefore, Relayer is a stringently example of this refreshing development in concurring expression of man's conscious and subconscious relationship with himself and nature. When "To Be Over" concludes 
• 

with its climactic underlining of the lyrics: 
the year 1n angers 
i\ftet· all your soul is still surrendered
by peter h. korth Arter all don't doubt your part 
Be t·eady to be loved,
Everyone knows that it's illegal to ride Yes, we had a vacation. Eurailpasses "Bonjour ... " They'll go to booms and dance two on a mobylette here. Does that mean we finally found their uses, as did Passports 
the French rock; to the Restaurant one feels that Anderson is not vocalizing
don't do it? No. Just today a flustered Ellen and money --we sort of suspected that Universitaire, at least once; and to the about the trite. And if this is not enough,got stopped by the police; and she money had its uses all along, but vacation Sporting, even more often. there are concluding lyrics that are announced in loud tones: "I don't speak did tend to emphasize that fact. And now "tracked back" so far that they become 
English" and the flies were quite sym­each weekend sees the Notre Dame children I'm still not serious. What does the year in almost hypnotic chants if focused upon.pathetic after such a sincere exclamation. in France taking off, on pilgramages to Angers boil down to? A mixture of Their performance of this song in the ACC She meant to say "French," just as she Bourges, to Lourdes, to the Hofbrau House bitter and sweet, as does any year last semester was faithfully identical to the 
intended to speak in· English. Being a in Munich. Does that mean they don't like anywhere. But even in the bitterest recroded version and it was interesting to foreigner has advantages sometimes. Angers? Of course not! moment, a look out the window reminds witness the heightening effect the stage -
I certainly was grateful in Rome, where Weekends in Angers that's what we'll you that this is France; a glance at the lighting had on this particular number. In people begging for money frequently and remember; Moira, Diane and Darch have Eurailpass assures you that the next retrospect I must disagree with the negative 
rudely accosted me --I simply stated in my taken up knitting ... they are among the vacation promises three. more countries of responses the props and lighting received in clear Midwestern tones that I could not several girls who are practicing to be ex­Europe ... and a look at yourself tells you that the concert review. I thought they were an understand a word they were saying. Only a cellent widows (a Ia francaise) some day. you're halfway through a year full of a new excellent addition to the show. Roman beggar would deserve a remark like They're not the only ones handling a lot of independance, being more away from home Never before ha& Yes construction been so 
that; they are a flourishing breed all their wool these days ... a lot of us try to pull it over than you've ever been· before, making or brilliant. The musicianship is stronger, own. the directors' eyes as we jaunt off to breaking a year on the other side of the more compact, and each member con­tributes impressively to the wholeness of it.
Most of the time, however, we Brussels to inspect the archives of Pope Leo globe all on your own. And a look at your 
masquerade as members of the French XIII. And of course, there are the friends around you assures you that you are There is no Rick Wakeman ,showing off his 
ever blistering talents on the keyboards; but
aboveground. We are aided --zealously, I present cafes of Angers, where we watch the still a part of Notre Dame ... or Saint 
might add --by classes in French, hours fly by as we indulge in French Mary's ... and that none of you are that there is Pat Moraz's coordinated em­
bellishments that by no means fall short of
magazines and newspapersin French, and language and liquids. foreign any longer. 
Wakeman's flashy exhibitions. And finally,friends, family and fetes-in French. You I suppose I should get serious ... wouldn't This year is the only way to capture all of the slide guitar work done by Steve Howe,get used to it after a while. It even begins to want to give the wrong idea to SUNDEF X, it. We've pulled away from the mass, and especially at the end of "The Gates of grow on you, just as the fuzz grew on the who will miss only the glory of the SS gotten a better perspective for having done Delerium," is worth the price of the album 
faces of a healthy percentage of SUNDEF's France as far as their year abroad goes. it. SUNDEF X--realize even now how lucky alone. When Yes played at ND, it seemed 
you are, and extract as much pure bliss

male members after the Christmas They will see the same Angers we see that Steve Howe had become the maestro of vacation. (Two have shaved; how many now ...God willing, even Monsieur Rene will from it as you can. To the rest of you-hello Yes, and the creative demonstration of his will stay the beard out?) be here to look them in the stomach and say -and you'll hear from us again. on Helayer simply proves it. 
the observer Tuesday, February 11, 1975
6 
Science professors comment on Ford plan 
by Fred Herbst Starr Reporter 
Science facufty members yesterday commented on President Ford's plan to institute a science advisory apparatus in the executive branch of the federal government. 
The apparatus will be under the direction of Vice-President Rockefeller. Ford's plan will re­institute the science advisory machinery abolished by President 
Nixom in 1973. 
Physics Professor William McGlinn noted the need for such an apparatus saying, "It seems to me that science affects government, the economy and our whole lives." 
Morris Pollard, chairman of the department of microbiology, 
(continued from page 1)
.' 
agreed on the need for such an apparatus. Pollard said, "It is very, very important. Our future depends on the utilization of our resources." 
Agreeing with his colleagues, Paul Weinstein, biology depart­ment chairman. said, "It gives the President a link with the scientific community. This was one of the problems with the Nixom ad­ministration." 
Chemistry professor Freeman also noted the need for such an apparatus, but added that the success of it largely "depends on what is asked of it.." 
Two of the faculty membeers said that in the past science had been ignored by the federal government. McGlinn noted that "the past couple of ad­ministrations haven't been in­terested, except in the case where 

a problem arose." Pollard also noted-a disinterest on the part of the federal govern­ment and added, "I personally feel that the Nixon administration may 
be responsible problems."  for  our  energy  
All  admitted  that  the  govern­ 

ment looked to science in terms of national defense, but their views differed. 
McGlinn said that the govern­ment is "overly concerned with defense." He also took note of the fact that while many of the President's top advisors are college professors, none of them are scientists. As an example, he cited Henry Kissinger. 
Freeman mentioned an over­emphasis on defense, but he said the abe feels that it's "not in­tentional, but easier." 
Weinstein termed the charge of 
Calendar history 
post-Labor Day start. St. Mary's l'ollege also chose a post-Labor Day opening but. defying previous practice. chose a vacation schedule that differed from the Notre Dame schedule for the 1973­74 academic year. 
Tht• fight over the 1974-75 ealendar began Nov. 9, 1973, when word leaked out that the Ad­ministration was again proposing a pre-Labor Day start. On Nov. 16, the day day before when word leaked out that the Administration was agian proposing a pre-Labor Day start. On Nov. 16, the day before the Thanksgiving break, Burtchaell made the official an­nouncemt•nt. 
Hesponding to questions con­n•rning apparent student op­position to such calendars, Burtchaell stated, "I don't think dissent before the fact has much value." 
"Wl•'re working on well though tout eonvictions" Burt­ehaell observed. "They may be wrong, but we'll only know that aftt•r we've lived with it." He again ei!Pd a semester without a midsemester break as being "too rPlentless" and said the 1973-74 <"alt'ndar "left the people too worn
-
out. faculty as well as students." Addressing the Hall Presidents ( 'ouncil in the Dillon Hall Chapel on ~ov. 26, Rurtchaell listed five fnctors limiting the flexibility of lhl' fall semester. The calendar must allow 72 calss days, the 
Plays poker whole way 
CHICAGO ( UPI) -A travel agent said Monday he "played poker around the world" to while away the time while he and eight other ·•erazy" persons encircled the globe by commercial jet in less than 80 hours. 
Alan L. Wilgus of Dayton, Ohio, said his group of travel agents and airline representatives from Ohio and Pmnsylvania were the first group tour t•ver to circle the world in under 80 hours. 
They found time. Wilgus said, to spPnrl 29 hours between flights in Tokyo sleeping, sightseeing, shopping on the Ginza and eating Chinese and Japanese food. 
Wilgus and his party left Chicago's O'Hare International Airport last Thursday and returned Sunday night in 70 hours, 24 minutes. Hl• said in his personal Dayton-to Dayton round trip he got 
Send your Sweetheart flo"' ers 
Wygant Floral Co. 327 Lincoln Way West 
232-3354 
Send flowers worldwide 
st•mester must culminate before Christmas and allow sufficient travel time for students and msut work in a five-<.lay weeek with no Saturday classes. he said. Burt­ehaell adt:ed that the calendar should be held in common with Saint Mary's and should include a semester break. 
.John Mazza. . a student representative on the Academic Council. noted that an HPC poll showed that 89 per cent of the student body would have their summer employment adversely affected by the August start. Mazza added that 74 per cent favored a post Labor Day start and a week at Thanksgiving instead of a midsemester break. 
Burtcheall replied to the eriticism by telling th the Stduent Life Council. "I fell the calendar will justify itself." 
('a h••ula r •·e-considt•red 
On Dec. 6. 1973. Academic Council members were invited to discuss the issue with the HPC and ( 'hris Nedeau. academic com­Illissioner. nrculated a petition among otht•r Academic Council nwmbers ealling for a re-hearing of thl' case. 
The petition achieved the l'Pquired ten signatures and a mt•eting was held on Jan. 24, 1974. t\t the mPeting, Nedeau presented 
•

Man circles world 1n 80 hours 

t>vidence refuting Burtchaell's 
argument that the ;accredidation association required the school to have a certain number of class days in each semester. 
After a two-hour· debate. the Burtchaell proposal. featuring a pre-Labor Day start, a ten-<.lay midsemester break and a four day wt>ekend for Thanksgiving, passed. :l0-27. Burtchaell noted at 
that time that no decision would be made ont the 1975-76 calendar until there was an opportunity to t•valuate the 1974-75 experience. 
An Obst•t·n·r. poll, taken August 
28. 1974. shortly after students returned to campus. disclosed strong initial disapproval of the pre-Labor Day start: 88 percent of the students polled wanted the calendar to be reconsidered and 68 percent claimed their summer earnings were affected. Faculty l'l'action. as evidenced in Observer interviews. was also negative for the August start. 
Burtchaell re-affirmed his belief in September that his proposals was the best of all possible calt>ndars. On September 11, the IIPC voted unanimously for a calendar by about 90 per cent. 
Last wt>ek. the Faculty Senate unanimously passed a resolution favoring a post: Labor Day start. A Studt•nt Government poll also revealed that 74 per cent of the students now also favor the post­Labor Day start. 
government over-emphasizing apparatus planned by Ford will be defense as "unfair". He men­that of energy. Freeman pointedtioned that other government out that the apparatus must funded projects should be determine "what are the realistic remembered. options and what about research" 
Pollard said that the emphasis in the area of energy. on defense may not be all bad. He Weinstein, while saying that cited the rapid development of the Ford's plan is a step in the rightjet engme as an example. Pollard direction, stressed the importance
added that "we must re-<.lirect our of keeping politics out of the area goals for domestic use." Still he of science. cited the need for the development Weinstein also said, "ifthere is of oil shale and mass tran­not an education of Congress and sportation. the President by the scientific 
All agreed that the major community, the nation will suf­problem to be confronted by the fer." 
Lent Begins •ornurruw • Ash Wed.
~­
Reminder: 
2 Days of Fast and Abstinence Obligatory • 
Ash Wed. & Good Friday • (no meat for anyone • fasting for 
those 21 & over) It is recommended that all give up meat on the other Fridays of 
lent. 
Cinema 75 presents 
Joanne Woodward Martin Balsam 

Winter Dreams 
It's a shocking drama. It is a film that matters and that will remain in your heart." 
-.JlJ))JTH CRIST. New York Magazine 
Thursday and Friday 7, 9, 11 Engineering Auditorium Admission is one dollar Cinema 7 5 atrons free 
A %1entimely­
~minder 
D ··_···· n-ra~ 
D Uncte ct Daughter-in-law D Granddaughter C3 Cousin D G randsori · · 

0 Godchildren D Niece 0 Godparents 
Valentine's Day Friday, Feb. 14 
Remember all your loved ones with thoughtful Hallmark Valentines and gifts. 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
~ 
back home at 10 p.m. Sunday tor an elapsed time of 79 hours, 18 minutes. 
"We played poker around the world," Wilgus said. "We started in Chicago and except for eating and sleeping we played. I won $13." 

Wilgus said he flew from Dayton to Chicago aboard United Airlines, then British Airways to London, Japan Airlines to· Moscow and Tokyo. JAL again to San Fran­cisco. and United from San Francisco to Chicago and Dayton. 
Training of Guard in Saudia Arabia 
Senate 
by Warren Nelson 
Washington UPI -Sen. John 0. Stennis, D. Miss., announced Monday the Senate Armed Ser­vices Committee will investigate the Pentagon's award of a contract to a private American firm to train the National Guard units which protect Saudi Arabia's oilfields. Stennis said he knew no details of the contract, but "it raises questions.-we're going to look into it." 
Sen. John Culver, D-Iowa, a committee member, backed Stennis' decision, saying "it makes little difference whether I call it an army or internal security forces, it should be obvious that training troops for foreign contries is fraught with hazard." 
Stennis disclosed his intentions shortly after Sen. Henry M. Jackson. D-Wash., made public a letter asking the Armed Services Committee to make "a thorough inquiry" into the contract. 
The Pentagon confirmed Saturday that it had awarded a $77 million. three-year contract to the Vinnell Corp., Alhambra, Calif., to give military training to the Saudi Arabian National Guard. 
Morgenthau to speak on recent history of U.S. foreign policy 
by Bob Brink Staff Reporter 
Prof. Hans J. Morgenthau, an Albert A. Michelson Distinguished Service Professor Political Science and Modern History at the University of Chicago and the author of the classic politics Among Nations, will lecture on the recent history of American 
foreign policy Tuesday, February 11, at 8 pm in the Library Auditorium. 
Born in Coburg, Germany in 1904, Morgenthau immigrated to 
the U.S. in 1937 and became a
naturalized citizen in 1943. He has been honored as a visiting professor at many leading American universities, including Harvard, Yale, California-Berkeley, and Northwestern. 
In the past, Prof. Morgenthau has been critical of U.S. in­tervention in such countries as the 
Griffin to begin 
Lenten season 
Rev. Hobert Griffin C.S.C. will initiate the Lenten season with the 
celebration of mass on Wednesday, Feb. 12, in the LaFortune Ballroom. The sevice begins at 
12:30 p.m. and ashes will also be distributed. 
Mass will also be said every weekday throughout Lent at the LaFortune Ballroom at 12:30 p.m. 
•--------------------------r
Valentine's Day Classified Ads 
Tell your Valentine and the world how you really feel 
Ads wiII be taken in the Observer office 
Today & Tomorrow till 5 pm 
Thursday until 1pm only. 



checks 
Officials said then that the training wouldinclude military drill, English, and care and use of 
U.S. weapons the Saudi National Guard has purchased. 
A State Department spokesman said Monday that the contract was in line with previous actions of the sort and the use of civilian per­sonnel involved no new policy. 
The spokesman, Robert Fun­seth. said the Vinnell contract was part of a $300 million-plus deal that the U.S. and Saudi Arabian governments made in March, 1973, for modernization of the Saudi Arabian National Guard. He said Vinnell was "to perform training and some logistic services" but would not describe what those services involved. 
The modermzation program, being paid for by theSaudis, is "under the supervision andcontrol of the U.S. Army Material Com­mand" and "no American con­tractor personnel or military are involved in the Saudi chain of command," Funseth said. 
Other State Department sources insisted the training would be limited to weapons repair and maintenance and would not in­clude tactical combat training. 
Dominican Republic and Vietnam. It is his belief that America must readjust its foreign policy to avoid past mistakes. 
Prof. Morgenthau's lecture is sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission. 
contract 
Under the contract Vinnell is to provide about 1000 instructors ­presumably U.S. service veterans­to train four batallions of 1,000 men each. 
One of the National Guard's major tasks is protecting the rich Saudi Arabian oil fields. 
The training would be financed by Saudi Arabia and conducted in that country,with payment for it going to the Pentagon which in turn will pay Vinnell. 
The Pentagon has confirmed that other private American firms have similar Defense Depart­n:ent contrac.ts for military ser­vices to Saudi Arabia -Northrup C'?rp. for training in F5 fighter aircraft; Raytheon Crop. for training with the Hawk an­tiaircraft missile, and Bendix Corp. for training the Saudi ord­nance corps. 
IT'S 

LATER THAN YOU THINK. 
On April 2 , time runs out for you to enroll in the 2-year Air Force ROTC Program. Here's what you'll miss: 
• 
$100 a month, tax-free, during your junior and senior years. 

• 
the chance to win a full Air Force scholarship (including tuition, lab fees, the works). 

• 
a challenging job as an Air Force officer upon graduation. 

• 
a future where the sky is no limit. 


Contact CAPT SHEPHERD 
At Buildings, Telephone 6634 
PUT IT ALL TOGETHER IN AIR FORCE ROTC 
I

1~--------------------------­
I 
I 1 I
I 
I
1
1 
I
I 
I 
I 
I 
The University of Notre Dame Press I 
I 

announces the paperback edition of 1
I 

TIME AND MYTH 1 I
I

by I
I 

h I Jo n s. Dunne I 
I
1 

cast a new spell with Time and Myth: A Meditation on daily Masses for IStorytelling as an Exploration of Life and Death." I 
~ "John S. Dunne, perhaps the most intuitive and I II natively talented Catholic theologian around, has ... 1 
1 

1 Marlin Marty I 
I 1 I "As a meditation ought to be, it is simple and 1
1 1
1 profound at once. And it is beautifully done, in some
1
I ways lhe richest of John Dunne's works."--The Critic 1 1
I $2.9s 1
! Available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore I 
Tuesday, Februar~ 11, 1975 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Need ride to St. Louis weekend Of Feb. 21. Call Joanne at 6997 
Wanted: Singer for rock band. Experience preferred, but not necessary. Call Mike 8624 
Married couple needed for live-in houseparents for foster home. Salary. Write P.E.P. Inc. 3012 S. Twyckenham South Bend, Ind. 
46614 

Need riders to Milwaukee, leave 
3:30 Friday, return Sunday. Call AI 3320 or 1715 
FOR SALE 

Garrard turntable, Electrophonic Receiver, Realistic 1,000 speakers. $250.00 Ph. 8709 
SR.10 Calculator for sale $50. Call Rick Huber 3156 
1966 Ford custom four-door automatic, good running condition, radial tires and 2 snow tires. Air conditioning $500 272-0859 after 6 pm 
Nikon equipment: Nikon F photomic Body; 35, 50, 135 mm Nikor lenses; 200 mm Vivitar; 300 mm Soligor. Call Zenon at 8661 or 8003 by Wednesday if you want to see equipment or make bid. 
ND Class Ring, man's, size 10V2, cheap 234-6375 
NOTICES 

Typing-papers, thesis, disser­tations. Reasonable rates. reliable service. 272.0859 after 6 pm 
Disciplinary action hanging over your head? Call Student Govt. 7668. We may be able to help. 
Renters. for renters insurance Call Glen or Jess Neely, 212·6565 State Farm Insurance 
Accurate, fast typing . Northeast section of South Bend. Reasonable 232.0746 
Money? Morrissey Loan will lend up to $150 for 30 days 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune. Daily 11:15 to 12:15 
Men. Women! Jobs on Ships! Excellent pay. Worldwide Travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $3.00 for information. SEAFAX, Dept. 
G.13 P.0. Box 2049 Port Angeles, Wash 
Party at Woody's 1223 Woodward Av. Fri., Feb. 14 at 9:00 Call 234· 5523 for directions. 
HASH BROWN BLUES BAND NOW AVAILABLE FOR YOUR PARTY, DANCE OR FORMAL. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CALL 272-9895 
N.D. Backpackers Meeting. Planning Spring trip. New members welcome. Tues 8 pm LaFortune Auditorium 
THIS SPRING BREAK {MARCH 22-29) REGGAE DOWN TO MONTEGO BAY, JAMAICA! ROUND TRIP BY AIR JAMAICA JET & DELUXE AC­COMODATIONS AT THE PLUSH MONTEGO BAY HOLIDAY INN. TENNIS, GOLF, 'sWIMMING AND GREAT RAYS IN THE CARIBBEAN SUN. SSO DEPOSITS MUST BE IN BY FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14. FOR MORE INFORMATION AND 
SIGN-UPS,  STOP  BY  THE  
STUDENT  UNION  TICKET  
OFFICE  OR  CALL  272-9895  AF­ 

TER 7:00 pm. ARRANGEMENTS BY THE ST. JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY. 
TICKETS FOR THE PLAY "THE RIVER NIGER" TO BE PRESENTED BY THE SOUTH BEND BROADWAY THEATRE LEAGUE AT THE MORRIS CIVIC ON THURSDAY FEBRUARY 13 ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE. Sl.OO DISCOUNT ALL TICKETS FOR NO & SMC STUDENTS. 
FOR RENT 
Houses ranging from two to seven bedrooms. Completely furnished. Available for May or Sept. 234·9364 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: Pair of silver wire-rimmed glasses at MSU Game or between ACC and Sarin. Please contact 6555. 
Found-1pr glasses. copper frames in D·1 call Maggie 6814 
Lost: long white and blue knitted scarf. Call 3694. Reward. 
PERSONALS 
Gay Students of Notre Dame! An organization of persons interested in sharing with others an im. portant aspect of their lives. P.O. Box 1702, South Bend, Ind. 46601 
Hopeless little girl needs lots of phone calls. Won't you help? Call Hope 5136 
Prospective Roommate, $60 per mo. is pretty poor. Defection to Lewis Hall is likely. Better make us an offer we can't refuse. Star, Belle, Sue 
Babs, Twirps & Trots . Thanks lots! 20 was so much fun 1 can hardly wait till 21! Surprised 
Happy Birthday, Denise H. Luv, 4th Floor B.P 

Congratulations on your 96 on the Cost test. Tom {721479346). How about switching back to pre.med? 
Boy available for B-P formal (looks good in a tiel Call Dan 282­1791 
offt'nse flow. lie sacraficed quite a lot for us on Saturday and a night likl' tonight when he's scoring, it's ,iust a situation of when to take him out." Dantley finally did come out with 7::l2 rt>maining in the game. and the Irish Pnjoying an 84-51. lead. Thl' Irish had t•xtended their 46-33 halftimP lt>ad. mostly on inside shots and free throws by the 6-5  straight points and wound up the half with a thirteen point cushion. Dantley went 8 for 9 from both the field and the foul line during the half. chalking up 24 points. "Air Force plays a controlled, disciplined game," said Phelps. "They play what we call a shuffle offense with a lot of motion away from the ball. What we had to do is not commit dumb fouls or give  for the game. It was then that Digger answered his own question 'when do you take the kid out?' and removed Dantley, much to the relief of Air Force coach Henry Egan and his team. "Adrian Dantley does a hell of a lot of things well," said Egan. "I think his 49 points speak for themselves as he's effective inside and outside."  
Even with Dantley gone, Egan  
and his players found little solace.  
Tht•  Irish  reserves  finished the  
gamP holding a  thirty-three point  
!l9-66 margin. the same margin as  
wht>n Adrian left the game. Center  
Tom Schneeberger led the Falcons  
with 17 points while season scoring  
lt>adt>r Dan Kraft added 14.  
"Offensively, Notre Dame is as  
good as Pither Stanford of Oregon­ 
two other fine teams, that we have  
played  this  year."  said  Egan.  
·'Wht>n  you  play  Notre  Dame,  
you just hope that you have a  
hdl of a game and that is all you  
ean do."  
Dantley's point total last night  
gave him a career total of 1,117,  
moving  past  three  players,  in­ 
cluding  last  years  star  Gary  
l\ovak. into twelfth place  on  the  
all-time  Notre  Dame  scoring  
records. He was just six points shy  
of Austin Carr's record 55 points  
for a home game.  
Though A.D. took up most of the  
~potlight.  there  were  other  en­ 
couraging  signs  for  Phelps.  
Freshman Don "Duck" Williams,  
whose  16  points  against  South  
( 'arolina  t>arned  him  a  starting  
role. was second in scoring for the  
Irish with 10  points. Duck hurt his  
-·  ankle late in the first half, but returned to see action in the final  
-HERE DANTLEY muscles in fora hard-earned layup against Falcon  half. and said that as of now it felt  
defender Tom Schneeberger. The Irish won the game 99-66.  all right.  


Tuesday, February 11, 1975

the observer 
A.D. feasts on Falcons, scores 49 
them the back-door layu·p. As farWashington D.C. native. Taking
by Rill Rrink 
as the press was concerned, wel'xcellent passes from his teamates just used it to keep the tempo of the as well as contributing a few fineEveryone knew that somewhere game going."moves himself, A.D. missed onlybehind that mask lurked the real The press did more than justthree shots total in the second half, Adrian Dantley. Unmasked for the maintain tempo, it forced 19 first­first time in over a week, Dantley going 8 of 10 from the floor and 9 of half Falcon turnovers, many ofunleashed for a season-high 49 10 from the foul line. them coming before the Falconspoints to lead the Irish to a 99-66 "After last Saturday it was nice ever made it over the miri-courtrout over the Air Force Academy to see a man-to man," said Dan­line. Notre Dame was plagued byFalcons. tley. "I worked for it, taking the mistakes themselves, committingTht• sophomore standout, held to ball to the basket, but I got to 14 turnovers in the initial period.ten points on Saturday by a credit my teamates. They got me The Irish reduced that figure totenacious South Carolina zone, the ball and they deserve all the only four in the second half, butmade short work of the Falcon's eredit." with Dantley putting the ball in the man-to-man defense. Moving to Not quite all the credit. Adrian basket most of the time there wasthP hoop for layups and short eontributed his share right from little chance for turnovers. Afterjumpers. A.D. hit on 16 outl9 shots the beginning, accounting for 20 of ND had moved to a 61-43 lead afrom the field. while cashing in on Notre Dame's first 26 points. little over four minutes into the half, 17 of 19 free throw line. Despite this scoring spree, the A.D. wt>nt into his act. In the next"I knt>w hl' had 20 or 24 in the Irish still could not lose the Pight minutes before he left thefirsthalf."said Digger, "And in the Falcons. leading by only 7 points, game I>antley accounted for 19 ofsl•cond half he was just scoring a :l2-25. with 4: 47left in the first half. the Irish's next 23 points, givinglot of fn•e things as well as his own But then the Irish rattled off nine him 25 for the second half and 49 
•

Unbeaten swimmers wln 
weather and the halcyon serenity Saturday Notre Dame opened of snow-covered DuLac. Hardly a up; the meet with its usual When the Notre Dame swim welcome for the Irish's greatest quickness as the tandem of Bob team returned home from a 76-37 aquatic squad ever. Saturday's Thompson, Bob Wardell, Bob thrashing of St. Bonaventure win over the Bonnies kept the Reilly and Ed Fitzsomons won the Saturday night, the crowds were Notre Dame undefeated streak 400 yard Medley Relay while not waiting at the Circle and the alive. The Irish mark of 9-o, sets setting a pool record with a time of band was not there to play the fight new highs for most wins in a single 3:46.4. After the Bonnies' Duffey song. Rather Notre Dame greeted season and most consecutive Hickey placed first in the 1000 yard its swimmers with blistery cold victories. Freestyle, the Irish reeled off six straight first place finishes. In the 
Wrestlers lace Marquette, g:fes~~~!~Mf:ght~ese~:noy~~~
Freestyle (1 :48.7), Jim Kane broke 
another pool record in the 50 yardSWM l•n IJ•nal home meet Freestylel0:21.9landBobWardell
tied a varsity record in the 200 yard by Rich Odioso upend the Warriors. Individual Medley (2:05.9). Later Saturday the Irish tied the school on, Kane added another pool 
Coach Fred Pechek's Irish record with their eleventh win, a record to the list in the 100 yard wrestlers go for a school record 43-2 squashing of Wheaton to run a Freestyle with a time of 0:48.2 twelfth win of the season tonight win streak to six. The streak fell in The meet featured outstanding with a triangular matchup with the next two matches of the home diving by Notre Dame's premiere Southwestern Michigan and quadrangular as Wisconsin diver, Bob Ebel. His board Marquette. Wrestling starts at 7 Parkside 18-16 and Illinois State 26-mastery earned a first-place finish 
p.m. in the ACC's Auxiliary Gym 11 both downed Notre Dame. 134-in both the one and three meter with admission free for this final pounder Dan Heffernan was the events. homl' mt:>et of the year. only Domer to win three matches The toughest challenges of the 
It will be the first mat meeting and 150-pounder Dave Boyer year are still to come for the Irish. ever between the Irish and SWM scored his tenth win of the season Wednesday night at 7:00 P.M. but Notre Dame and Marquette and the 46th of his career against Notre Dame entertains Western are long-time rivals with the Illinois State's Randy McAllister. Michigan at the Rockne Memorial 
Warriors holding a 9-8-2 series lead Boyer, a junior from Lake Orion, Pool. WMU downed.the Irish last including a 26-12 win last year in Michigan. is now closing in on the year, 60-53. Cross-state rival Milwaukee. The teams both ND career mark of 50, set by Ken Purdue invades the Rock Saturday participated in the National Hyan and equaled by AI Rocek last fora 4:00P.M. clash with the Irish. Catholic Tournament last week as year. Notre Dame is set for revenge, Marquette placed second and Th Irish are now 11-7 and will with the rememberance of last Notre Dame fourth. However, compete in the Maverick Classic at year's 86-37 debacle at Purdue Coach Pechek feels that spurred on Nt>braska-Omaha this weekend. being a motivating factor. Ad­by a home crowd his Iri&h The Irish will stop at rugged Drake mission to both these meets is free wrestlers have a good chance to on the way back Monday night. and open to the public. 
.. \ 
UNMASKED AND UNSTOPPABLE, forward Adrian Dantley hooks for two of his game-high 49 points. Dantley moved into 12th place in the all-time Notre Dame scoring records. ­
Also impressive was the is a J:l-7 rPcord and another step rPbounding work of sophomore towards an NCAA tournament bid. Billy Paterno. Bill, whose They still have six rough games rebounding has improved each n•maining though. beginning with gamP led the Irish off the boards thl' traditionally tough battle with with 10 rebounds. Toby Knight St. .John's in Madison Square addt>d 7 points whilepullingdown 5 (;arden Thursday night. l't•bounds. and Dave Kuzmicz . "St. .John's is well -prepared and !allied six points. All of the Irish hy gamP time there could be 16 to players suited up saw action. and 1!! thousand in the Garden," said all but two scored. l'lwlps or thl' upcoming gamt•. 
"It was real good for them." "Tht>y 'rp putting it together. Iligger commt>nted on the per­Tht>y 'vp got good personne I. and of formance of his reserves. "They eoursl' playing in the Garden, it's t•arnPd it." going ..to bt• a real psyche-out 
What the Irish have Parned now gamt• 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Fencers down four in weekend sweep 
by Tom Kruczek 
In the final bout of the day, Notre 
The Notre Dame fencing team Dame rolled past Indiana 19-8 to swept past four opponents mark the second time this season Saturday on their way to their that the Irish have defeated the fifteenth win in seventeen outings, lloosiers. defeating Detroit, Marquette, In the other bright spots of the Indiana University and the day. the Notre Dame-St. Mary's University of Chicago. The Irish womens fencing team defeated outscored the opposition 84-24 in Indiana 6-3. The feature bout total points in the four rounds of matched two current state bouting action at the ACC. champions, Terri Wheeler, who 
Individually, the Irish showed won the Indiana women's open signigicant improvements at each ehampionship last March, and of the three weapons, especially at Kathy Valdiserri, the Indiana the sabre. Mike McCahey, fresh­junior olympic women's title man, finished the afternoon with a holder. Wheeler took a late 4-3lead 5-() mark with only one touch before Valdiserri struck back with scored against. Junior Sam two straight touches to win the DiFiglio also fared well, winning bout. five bouts and losing none. In Next on the slate for the Irish addition, Mike Progar finished 4-o, will be a tough weekend of bouting, in his first match since coming off featuring a match against Oberlin a painful tendon injury that had and Cleveland State at Cleveland sidelined the senior from on Friday. The following day, the Sheboygan, Wisconsin for two Irish will cross swords with Ohio wt•eks. State, Michigan State, and 
In the opening match of the day, powt>rhouse Wayne State. DeCicco Notre Dame downed Detroit 19-8 anticipates a rugged battle from behind the 7-2 victories of the epee Wayne State, which was the only and sabre. In the second round, the team to defeat Notre Dame last Irish knocked off Marquette 22-5 year and spoil an otherwise perfect 
and the University of Chicago 24-3. rt'cord. 



