compared Kissinger to a chess master, surrounded by sixteen other players. "One is Greece, one is Turkey, and on and on," he explained. "He's showing that he can negotiate with fifteen people, but I don't think that he knows what he's doing anymore." 
Speaking on "Dr. K's"failings as a detente-maker, Von Hoffman accused the Secretary of State as operating "with no moral dimen­sions to his politics." -He then quoted Max Schumacher, politicai. philosopher, who has defined Kissinger's politics as one in which "the 
good the true and the beautiful are too subjective, too vague to interject mto the political realities. These are crackpot realities." "What we have then," said Von Hoffman, "is a practical crackpot." 
Main Areas of Foreign Policy 
Von Hoffman defined the three main areas of foreign policy concern as Vietnam and Cambodia, Turkey, and Cyprus, and the Middle East. 
"There's something heartwarming about an old war," Von Hoffman said in reference to Vietnam and Cambodia. "Vietnam is an exercise in cynicism and lack of imagination." In reference to Cambodia, he said, "they have to close it down sometime." 
Von Hoffman commented on the lack of direction that Kissinger has displayed in the Turkey-Greece-Cyprus area. "The only hint we have," he said, "is that Kissinger once said 'that old fox Makarios is not going to make a fool out of me'." 
He then noted that in a study done in London, it was shown that, in fourteen out of the last fifteen wars, America has supplied arms to both sides. 
"The Middle East divides into two things," Von Hoffman explained, "oil and Israel." He expressed fear that the Russians will play a larger hand in the conflict. In a question and answer period following the lecture, the journalist elaborated on the point by stating, "these guys are foolish enough to want to exchange roles. Russia will take Israel for awhile, and we'll take the other side, just for fun." 
Von Hoffman cited the key to beginning a real peace settlement in the Middle East as political recognition of the Palestinian Liberation Organization. "These are an unassimilatable people,"he explained. "Their Arabic is different, they have a different spirit, a remarkable cohesiveness, and are the best educated in the Middle East." 
"They are a wandering people," Von Hoffman stated in elaboration. "They have a very poetic, literary theme to their lives, something that comes with being wanderers." 
In the question and answer session, a member of the audience challenged Von Hoffman onthe points of Arabic dialect and education. "The Egyptians are the most educated," he said, "they have more 
(continued on page 3) 

Notre Dame and St. Mary's students will be given by Terry Keenev preferntial seating for the Special 'Academic Observer Editor Convocation. Students may enter the ACC main 
President Gerald Ford will meet with a group of arena through Gate 11 beginning at 9:30 a.m. about 50 Notre Dame faculty and students as part of Students must present their ID cards to enter at that 
his scheduled appearance on campus Monday, time. 
March 17. Richard Conklin, director of University Beginning at 10 a.m., the general public will be Information Services, confirmed yesterday that admitted. Conklin stated that after 10 a.m. seatingFord's schedule will include a luncheon with media for students cannot be guaranteed.executives, a meeting with presidents of Big Ten "If you come early, we'll guarantee you'll be 
and Indiana universities and colleges and a working seated," he said. If you come after 10 a.m., students dinner with Midwest governors. will be considered as any member of the general
After Ford's appearance at the Academic Con­public."vocation, scheduled for 11 a.m. Monday, the The Notre Dame Glee Club, Band and University
president will meet with the faculty and students in . Chorale will provide entertainment beginning at 10 the Monogram Room of the Athletic and Con­a.m. The Academic Procession will begin at 10:40 vocation Center. a.m. Ford will then attend the luncheon for ap­Following the Special Convocation, Ford will proximately 75 Midwest media executives in meet informally with a group of faculty and 
another part of the Monogram Room. He will then students. The faculty will be composed of elected appear at a luncheon for the university and college members of the Academic Council. Students in­presidents hosted by Fr. Hesburgh, University vited are the members of the Academic Council and -president, in the Morris Inn. members of the College councils. Also included are 
Following a 6 p.m. regional news conference in Student Body President Pat McLaughlin, Student the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Body President-elect Ed Byrne and St. Mary's
Education, Ford will dine with the governors in the Legislative Commissioner Joanne Garrett. dining room on the fourteenth floor of the Memorial Conklin explained that the students were invited Library. 
to meet with the president by ·Fr. Hesburgh. He St. Mary's College yesterday joined Notre Dame explained that the criterion for selection was an 
in cancelling classes between 9:30 a.m. and 1:10 academic one. Therefore, members of the 
p.m. Monday to allow students to attend the Academic Council, the highest University policy­
Academic Conovocation in the ACC. In a statement making body, were invited. to St. Mary's students, Dr. William Hickey, acting "The rationale is very simple," he said. "The president said that Fr. Hesburgh had extended an decision was made to invite the elelcted Academic 
official invitation to all St. Mary's students to Council, but that leaves you with only seven participate in the Special Convocation. 
(continued on page 7) 
Faculty responds favorably to referendum 
by Maureen Flynn Staff Reporter 
Faculty members responding to the recent Faculty Senate referendum gave strongest support to the item dealing with the appointment, promotion and tenure process. A considerable majority also supported resolutions regarding the budget, salaries, evaluations, and employment pracrices. 
l''our hundred seventy-five <two-thirds of the 740 faculty members polled) responded to the referendum issued in late February. Of this number, 414 <89 per centl supported the sense of a resolution which stated in part: "When a candidate for chairman or dean is from outside the university, or is an untenured member of the faculty, the CAP <Committee on Appointments and Promotions l should be especially careful to treat separately the question of his or her professional qualificati.ons for appointment to the faculty or for promotion to tenure from that of his or her suitability as a chairman or dean." 
In addition. 75 .per cent of those respon­ding favored the adoption of a model system of departmental CAP's outlined in the referendum. The main thrust of the proposed set-up is to render appointment, promotion, and tenure decisions as joint actions of tbe administration and com­mittees. In the case of a dispute which cannot be resolved, the matter would be referred to an appeal committee whose decision would be binding on both the ad­.ninistration and the departmental com­mittee. 
On the basis of this result, the Faculty senate voted last Tuesday night to empower a subcommittee to devise a specific proposal on CAP structure. 
As a general statement of its position on university governance, 79 per cent of the responding faculty members endorsed the principles set forth in the 1967 statement on Govl'rnml'nt of Colleges and Universities of the American Association of University Professors. Special emphasis was placed on those sections of the report which deal with the appointment, promotion, and tenure process. 
Budgl't Committee Supported 
Another proposal for the establishment of a university-wide budget priorities com­mittee received the support of 77 per cent of the faculty answering the referendum. The vote was directed towards a specific plan drawn up by the Faculty Senate's Com­mittee on the Budget Review Proposal in accordance with guidelines suggested in the report of the Committee on University Priorities in December 1973. 
General dissatisfaction with the present salary situation among those responding was reflected in the votes on three of the items in the referendum. 
Seventy-six per cent found the $600 cost­of-living supplement granted to the faculty in lieu of a permanent salary increase was not "an adequate response to faculty salary needs." 
A slightly smaller percentage <72 per cent l endorsed the sense of a resolution stating on part, "Having established that adequate funds are available, we hereby urgently request for each member of the Notre Dame .. .faculty a total compensation increase of no less than $1,400..." 
Seventy-three percent of the respondents supported the sense of a statement requesting that the administration make available to the faculty each year a distribution of academic year salaries by quartiles.. .for each rank .. .for each of the four Colleges in the University, as well as the corresponding salary increases for the coming academic year." 
Although no action was taken on the salary issue itself at last Tuesday's meeting of the Faculty Seante, the senate decided to make another formal request to the ad­ministration for the latter information. 
Will Evaluate Officers 
A proposal "to conduct a faculty evaluation of those academic officers on the University...who have jurisdiction over or directly serve the entire academic com­munity" was approved by 71 per cent of the faculty voters. Periodic formal reviews of these officers are provided for in Article II of the Academic Manual. 
The faculty evaluations "would be con­ducted by the Senate among the faculty at large shortly before these formal reviews are begun in order to provide these review committees with opinion representative of the entire faculty." 
By contrast 60 per cent of the responding faculty rejected a proposal, made at the fall meeting of the chairmen, deans, and vice­presidents of the University, that each member of the teaching and research faculty be requested to file a Faculty Ser· vicl' Rl'port with his or her department chairman. The report was termed by the referendum "unnecessary, since avenues for submission of information and evaluation already exist." 
Regarding hiring practices for faculty, 66 per cent of the voters supported the sense of the following resolution. 
"The Faculty Senate, while fully recognizing a Catholic character and tradition of Notre Dame, firmly rejects an employment and promotion policy in which consideration of religious affiliation is a part." 
A letter expressing faculty opposition to religious preference in hiring is to be sent to the board.­
Faculty response to the possibility of collective bargaining was rather vague, with 45 per cent of the respondents requesting more information on the subject before making a decision. Twenty-two per cent favored seeking a collective bargaining pgent to represent the faculty, while 30 per cent opposed collective bargaining at Notre Dame. The Faculty Seante will initiate an informational program on collective bargaining with the American Association of University Professors. 
the observer Thunday, March 13, 1975 
warld briefs 
MOSCOW (UPil ·A Chicago­based company Wednesday signed a $.47 million contract with the Soviet Union, the biggest trade deal since the Soviet Union froze trade with the United States In January. 
Under the contract the 
I American firm, Gould Inc., will, supply the Soviet Union with a complete automotive bearings factory and will train Soviet engineers. 
' 
SAIGON CUP() -Communist. forces rolled over a strategic district capital In South VIet­nam's Central Highlands Wednesday, the sixth town lost by the government In five days. 
As Communist attacks In­creased, the South Vietnamese government declared a general mobilization, putting every male between 17 and 43 on call for military service. 
TAMPA, Fla. (UPI) -A heated legal bettie developed at the bribery-conspiracy trial of former Sen. Edward J. Gurney Wednesday when the govern­ment tried to enter as evidence 77 certified documents from Federal Housing Ad­ministration records. 
Defense attorneys objected, claiming the documents were only partial records. They said the government should be made to provide complete files. 
an campus today 
10 am & 2 pm -demonstration, super 8 fast process developing, cce. 2:30-4:30 pm -tax assistance, stud. govt. offices. 4 pm -colloquium, "autonomic conditioning: the state of the art", t. pritchard, co. snyder, 119 haggar hall. 5 pm -vespers, log chapel. 
6:30 pm -meeting, sports car club, Iafortune lobby 
7:30 pm -lecture, rosemary haughton, stapleton lounge. 7:30pm-nobel laureate lecture, "pablo neruda, a poet for all seasons", Isis qulnteros, regina •ud. 
7: 30 pm -resenstiel lecture, "formal liturgy and personal devotion In judlasm" rabbi a.l green, lib. aud. 
8:00 
pm -lecture, seymour hersh, washington hall. · 8:00pm-boxing, bengal bouts, $1.50, ace. 

8:00 
pm -concert, madrigal sl ngers, little theater. 8 & 10 pm -film, "panic In needle park", $1, eng. aud. I 


Two days of· appearances . 
Marching Band travels to Cleveland 
by Kevin Dickerson Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame's Fighting Irish Band will travel to Cleveland, Ohio this weekend for the annual St. Patrick's Day festivities, spon­sored by the United Irish Societies of Greater Cleveland. Band members will leave Notre Dame Sunday morning at 11:30 a.m. and will arrive in Cleveland for two days of guest appearances, special occasions and ceremonies. 
The Emerald Civic Society will host the band along with other civic-minded Cleveland businesses. Band members will be the guests of several companies sunday night at a dinner, a1dramatic presentation at the State Theater, and a second Italian dinner. 
St. John's College, a Catholic girls school will host the Band at a party given in the Band's honor. 
St. Patrick's Day begins with the Irish Band's live television appearance on Cleveland's Morning Exchange program on Channel 5. After interviews with Band Directors Robert O'Brien and Jim Phillips, the Band departs for St. John's Cathedral where a special mass will be celebrated for St. Patrick's Day. 
r 
The Band then marches from St. John's to the City Square where the Irish Guard will post the colors and the Irish and American National Anthem will be played. Several city 
dignitaries cluding Ralph  will  be Perk,  on  hand mayor  in­of  
Cleveland.  

O'Brien will accept a key to the City and an official proclamation from City Council representatives. 
Subcommittee votes limited aid to Cambodia 
WASHINGTON <UPI)-A foreign affairs subcommittee defied the House Democratic Caucus Wed­nesday and voted 4 to 3 to provide Cambodia with a maximum of $45.2 million in military and economic assistance over a three­month period. 
The action came despite a 189-49 vote in the Democratic Caucus earlier in the day to refuse the aid, putting heavy pressure on Democratic congressmen to stand firm against the aid requests. 
The Democrats met one day 
Remains of giant reptile found 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -The fossil remains of a giant flying reptile with a wing wider than a jet fighter have been found by a graduate student in a 57-million­year-old stream bed in west Texas. 
"It is without doubt the largest flying creature presently known, Douglas A. Lawson reported in the current issue of Science magazine. 
Lawson estimated the animal, known as a pterosaur, had a wingspan of 51 feet although he Said it could be as small as 36 feet 
or as big as 69 feet. The largest previous known pterosaur, found in western Kansas, had a wingspan
of about 20 feet. The largest bird MW aliR~ ~ m~M ~th
wingspans up to 10 feet. 111 
Dr. Nicholas Hotton, a paleon­tologist at the Smithsonian In-; stitution, said pterosaurs had very ' small bodies for their big wing size · and had very light, hollow bones. They are generally thought to have leathery wings like a bat. 

·-SOUTH BEND'S IRISH PUB . 
-~· 
' ;r~ ·. o*"'
<t..r-a &~,._~,. 
~ NOW SERVING 1 GYROS (A GREEK SPECIA~TY): AND OTHER FINE FOODi 
~LSO. YOOR FA\ORITE. 
---. 
EEER, WNEAf\D CDO<TAILS, .'ACROSS FRC».1 .... 
1'-• 
--\.. . 

after a Senate subcommittee had voted 4 to 3 for giving Cambodia 
half the military aid Ford wants. That bill now goes to the full Foreign Relations Committee. 
The House subcommittee 
recommendation, which now goes
to the full House Foreign Affairs Committee, was made conditional 
on the United States "undertaking specific steps to achieve an end of the conflict in cambodia not later 
than June 3o, 1975," and three 
other conditions: 
Finally, the Band concludes the visit to Cleveland by marching in the 108th Annual St. Patrick's Day parade. 
Cleveland sources mentioned in an earlier press release that Cleveland is the only city that the Band of the Fighting Irish has returned to four times. O'Brien claims that "Cleveland's hospitality and charm" always brings the band back. 
The Cleveland St. Patrick's Day parade will host bands, guests and performers from as far east as 
New York State. Besides the Orange Bowl Festival, this is the Band's only other parade ap­pearance. 
Ranked 5th in the Nation, the Notre Dame Cheerleaders will be traveling to Chicago to par­ticipate in the Chicago St. Patrick's Day parade and festivities. They will be hosted by Moran Supply company and will ride on the sponsor's float. The Fighting Irish Cheerleaders at­tended Chicago's parade last year also. 
--That Cambodia actively pursue 
·•specific measures to reach a.________________________
.....,~ 
TAX ASSISTANCE PROGRAM 
for free help with your TAX RETURNS, stop by the Student Government Offices (2nd floor LaFortune) MONDAYS 1:30-4:30 THURSDAYS 2:30-4:30 
GRADUATE PARTY L • H 11
at eWIS a 
UNLIMITED WINE AND CHEESE 
FRIDAY, MARCH 14 9·.00 P.M. 
TICKETS: $1.00 IN ADVANCE (AT LEWIS HALL DESK) 
$1 .50 AT DOOR 
political and military ac­comodation with the other side of the conflict." 
--That intiative are taken "toward the other side to achieve a peaceful and orderly conclusion to the conflict" including safe passage for those woho wish to leave. 
--That the United States appeals to the United Nations "to lend 
assistance  to  achieve  a  peaceful  
and  orderly  conclusion  to  the  
conflict."  

The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuoents of the University of Notre Dame ~d St. Mary's College. Subscriptions
may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Elox' Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46SS6. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 

Sierra Sports 
.-MOUNTAIN CLIMBING EQUIP. Carabiners · Pitons -Climbing Ropes 
-BACKPACKING & CAMPING GEAR Down Sleeping Bags -Lightweight Tents Packs And Frames Dehydrated & Freeze Dried Foods Boots For Men & Women 
-CANOE & KAYAKS Paddles -Life Jackets 
CALL
I233-8383 I 

2216 MIAMI 
~~~~S~~~-====~~~==~J~~~~~~~~~~~~==='~W~~~M~I~A~T~E~W~IN~G~"=~==~ 

A N~W APARTMENT COM­
MUNITY DEVELOPED .FOR THE STUDENTS! OF NOTRE DAME & SAINT' MARY'S. CAMPUS · VIEW IS SET IN A WOODED' SURROUNDING'YET IS ONLY 
3 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE .i>AME. LOCATED JUST ONE BLOCK NOR_TH OFI STATE RD. 23 OFF. OF WILLIS;RD.I 
CAMPUS 
VIEW 
GJE ard lV\0 BB:>ROOM 
RJRNISHED APARTMENTS 
-tr  COMMU.NITY BUILDING  
iC  INDOOR SWIMMING POOL  
iC  1JASKETBALL COURT  
i'  SHAG CARPET'  
iC  2 BATHS IN 2 BEDROOM.APT  
iC  ALL APPLIANCES COLOR  
COORDINATED:  
iC  SECURITY  
iC  SOUND CONDITIONED  
-iC  PRIVACY  

NOW RENTING FOR FALL SEM.ESTER ( ·'75 -'76 SCHOOL YEA.R ) . . 
FOR RENT~ INFORMATION-PHONE 272-1441 
-. . --. 
t· 
~ •I 

Thursday, March 13, 1975 the observer 
At Finance Forum 
Murphy predicts recession outcome 
greater than the risk in buying a stock." explained Murphy. There is orie easy way to judge 
ARE YOU A DOMER IN 
your rate. of return, according to 
-DISTRESS WITHOUT WHEELS?
Murphy, and that is through the change in the Gross National 
When In Need Of A Quick G et a w a y . C a II . L o i s ·A_ t , 
'·
von Hoffinan calls U.S. society disasterous 
JORDAN FOR 
(continued from page 1) terms ofliving as we have and at .country." 
259-1981
PhD's than there are in the same time phasing in long­Von Hoffman commented on Great Britain." Von Hoffman range programs. This is not like Gerald Ford. "The snow-bunny is 
STUDENT RATES:
stated that the point on education going from one room into 
supposed to supervise Henry 
was "a matter of where yoti place another." 
Kissinger," he said. "You can 
Rent a PINTO or MAVERICK for Just
your qualifications." Von Hoffman then described the 
dress him up, but underneath it all 
------~---­
Von Hoffman divided the Energy context in which the Arab coun­he's still a bunny-rabbit." Crisis into four areas of solution: tries formed cartels and raised the "Until he stumbled into the 
$5 Day & 5'/Mile (MIN. AGE 2 J) 
foeeign, domestic, short and long­oil prices. He cited high inflatimn, 
Presidency, or was cuaght init," 
range. He stated that his carried into the Arab nations by Von Hoffman continued, "Ford speculations on short-range the American action of delfating was a man around Washington, 
6'09'·E. Jefferson, Mi'sha·wak·a· 
I 
solutions should not be taken­their currency and thus reducing around whose head only one 
without also looking at his thoughts their actual profit onoil, and controversy had been raised: was on long-range solutions. American-Russian tension which 
there anything init?" 
Start St. Pat's weekend
"We have treated fossil fuels as enebled the nations to act "like the He defined Ford's vision for 
profit. as if they came from a cat was away." America as "one that has fin tails 
business. They are not profits, "There are too many scare or a suburb where the big ex­
they are capital," he explained. figures in the monetary com­citement is a new McDonald's 
Early at Senior Club 
Establishing his long-range muntiy." Von Hoffman stated. moving in." position further, Von Hoffman "People think that now that the "He's hell-bent for the fifties," said, "only a nation of maniacs will Arab's have money, they're going Von Hoffman claimed. "If they 
Thurs. 
continue to arrange our affairs to to be buying everything, when succeed, we'll all die eating Burger consume as we have been, at the actually they have at the Chefs and perish in plastic." 
7 & 7's 50¢ 
rate we have been. If we don't maximum. less than 2 percent of "The smptoms of demoralization restructure these things, we will our Gross National Product. will continue to grow ,and I use the destroy ourselves." There's no way they're going to word symptom gently," he stated. 
Fri. 
come over and buy su up." (referring to the time when man stated, "we've gotten to the 
"I doubt if the sometime Concluding his talk, Von Hoff­
"But then again," he interjected, present resources will run out) is "if we find somebody whm wants point where we can't have bunny 
Happy Hour 4-6 
longer than your lifetimes," Von to buy Lockheed ... why not? If we rabbits pointing out the direction Hoffman warned the students in can sell that, they're bound to take for the country. ltmust be the audience. the Penn Central, too. Or even the restructured, in profound wayS." 
Sat. 
He established his short-term Brooklyn Bridge." In the question and answer solution on three main issues: the Von Hoffman called the fear of period following, Von Hoffman "cheap fuel" constant as a con­the Arabs "Economic Macho." clamied that Ted Kennedy would 
Mixed Drinks 50¢ 
ception in our economy, a Von Hoffman derided the iea of be "unelectable" for President misunderstanding of the role of the "energy independence". "In the because he has "never answered Arab nations as oil-producing darkest Middle Ages, before even C'happaquiddick." 
Mon. 
eountries and the irrationality of the simplest national state or When asked about his thought for the "energy independence" settled cultures," he explained, a future role for the former solutions proposed in Washington. "when only a few baronial holdings President, he stated, "a long 
Specials from 11-6 
"Since the end of World War II," wPre around, it would have seemed retirement, mowing his lawn." Von Hoffman said, "hundreds of peculiar to them to have a com­billions of dollars in capital in­munity that had total in­
The OBSERVER Is Lool<ing For A Few Good Men
dependence in commodities." on the substance that we'd have "The idea of commercial in­
vestments in the U.S. were made 
Or Women To Fill The Following Positions In
lots of cheap oil." He proposed dependence, especially in the U.S. 
that America not jump into long­is absurd," he stated. "Doubly so 
The Business Department
range solutions, but "think in in connection with the U.S., which 
-----------------------*----------------------­
PROF. THOMAS MURPHY addressed the Fifteenth Annual Finance Forum last night on possible recession outcomes. 

IT'S I.AlERTHAN 
~THINK. 
On April 2 , time runs out for you to enroll in the 2-year Air Force ROTC Program. Here's what you'll miss: 
• 
$100 a month, tax-free, during your junior and senior years. 

• 
the chance to win a full Air Force scholarship (including tuition, lab tees, the works). 

• 
a challenging job as an Air Force officer upon graduation. 

• 
a future where the sky is no limit. 


ContactCAPT SHEPHERD, At Buildings, Telephone 6634, 
PUT IT All TOGETHER IN AIR FORCE ROTC 

TOMORROW!! DOORS OPEN 6:15 P.M 
KERMIT SCHAFER'S 
PARDON M~. BLOOPER 
based on radio & T.V.'s most s boners! 
BUSINESS 
.MANAGER 
*A Salaried Position 
*Excellent Practical Experience in Running a Business 
*Applicants Should Be Accountancy Majors or Have Some Accounting Experience 
*No Newspaper Ex­perience Is Necessary 
. 
---------~-------~
SUBMIT YOUR RESUME TO . 
Bob logos Box Q, Notre Dame before March J7 
DVERTISING MANAGER 
*A Salaried Position 
*Excellent Opportunity for Anyone Interested in Managing the Im­portant Function of Ad Sales for The Observer 
*Some Sales Experience Is Pref~rred 
DVERTISIN SALESMEN 
*Compensation on a Commission Basis 
*Work Your Own Hours 
*Your Earnings Potential Is limited Only by Your Ability to Sell 
*Great Practical Ex­perience for any Marketing Students or Anyone Planning on , Going Into Sales as a Career 
by Val Zurblis 
and 
Dan Cofall Staff Reporters 
Professor Thomas Murphy predicted the outcome of the stagnated economy in the final lecture of the Fifteenth Annual Finance Forum yesterday. Sponsored by the Notre Dame Finance Club, the forum brings experts in the nation's economy to the Notre Dame campus each year. 
To determine the extent of a recession or a depression, Murphy said that the percent of unem­ployment in the labor force and the capital resources, which is now only 70 percent utilized, must be looked into. "The only way to get ahead is to have your rate of return Product <GNP). This figure does not change rapidly, it is easy to study. It is hard to judge the monetary policy, the change in inventories, capital spending and the petrol situation. These factors must be fully considered in relation to the rate of return being greater than the risk. 
Walter Heller President Gerald 
00 
Hit single "You Blew It" by Sam Coslow and sung by Danny Street Copyright by Blooper Enterprises. Inc. 
.Ford's economic advisor, would like an 8 to 10 percent increase in the money supply, cash and demand deposits, said Murphy who agrees with Heller's opinion. Arthur Burns, head of the Federal Reserve claims that increase has already occurred and something else is needed. Murphy stated that Burns considers factors in his definitionof money supply. The business professor said the money supply isnot increasing sufficiently to counteract the recession. 

Fortune Magazine predicts a fast recovery from the recession, but Murphy predicted a stock market increase that will precede recovery by six months. Since the market is now rising, he feels there will be a recovery by late Notember, ubt this recovery may onlyt last for a short time as a recession may still exist. 
Murphy explained a new change in brokerage fees that occur in April. The brokerage firms will accept a new policy of negotiable brokerage fees instead of a fixed reate now set by the Securities and Exchange Commission. "This will force the small investor out of the 
' market, because the rates will go up,and for the large investor the raters will go down," stated 
. Murphy. "The brokerage firms will be the first to recover from the recession," said Murphy. "They have increased from 200 to 300 percent since late 1974," he con­tinued. Murphy also pi:edictedmajor corporate breakups such as the American Telephone and Telegraph losing Western Electric, IBM and Xerox. Murphy said that we are now seeing the "first bargains" in the stock market since 1949. Murphy joined the Notre Dame Department of Finance in 1946 and became dean in 1962. He now plans to establish a business school in Korea. 

The Observer 
an independent student newspaper 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Tom Drape  Editor-in-Chief  
Bob Zogas  Business Manager  
Bob McManus  Advertising Manager  

EDITORIAL BOARD 
Terrv Ke~ney, News Editor; AI Rutherford~anaging Editor; . Jeanne Murphy, Copy Editor; 1 Fred Gr!lyer, Edit.Q!ii!IJ;:c;H.tor·Greg Corgan, Sports Ed!tor Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Chris Smith. Photo Editor; Bill Brink. Sen1or N1ght Ed1tor 
Jim Eder, Ann McCarry. Pattie Cooney, Zenon Bidzinski, Marlene Zloza, Contributing Editors 
Business: 283-7471
News: 2~13-1~15 
Thursday, March 13, 1975 

Cheering against one's own school
St. Mary's 
would represent the ultimate ::onflict of interest; a conflict that 
Cheerleaders?~ould occu~ !f the current situation 
l)par Editor: 
I couldn't help but wonder if St. Mary's students should be invited to participate in this years cheerleader's tryouts and for three reasons. 
First, it is true that a great number of St. M4ty's seniors applied to St. Marfs under the impression that eventually a merger with Notre Dame was to be realized. For the last three years, many have rightfully expressed disappointment and felt cheated by the un-merger. It would have been unfair to deny these women such opportunities as being cheerleaders for obvious reasons. 
I r 
They applied in good faith, and were let down by the respective boards of trustees and ad­ministrations of the two schools. However, often this year, they will be gone, and presumably all St. Mary's women will be there on 
r their own accord and should not r feel that they are truly 
~ 
representative of Notre Dame. 
Secondly, Notre Dame is a coed institution, and its cheerleaders, male and female, should reflect its student body. I would think it highly inequitable to deny a Notre Dame coed an opportunity to participate as a cheerleader in favor of a St. Mary's woman, a student of another institution. 
Finally, and most importantly, the true growth of St. Maryh 's and women's rights in general demand that St. Mary's women no longer desire to be Notre Dame cheerleaders. The new president of St. Mary's has declared its in­dependence as a progressive, growing college, and it can only benefit St. Mary's to more fully develop its own personality, particularly in athletics. The recent ND-SMC basketball game is a promising indication of the future. Women's basketball on the collegiate level recently drew over 12,000 fans in Madison Square Garden. Perhaps some days these two schools will enjoy such a rivalry, which would be fine, ex­cept in the ludicrous case that would result if Notre Dame still had cheerleaders from St. Mary's. 
1s not rectified. Sincl"rl"ly. Hill Zimmprman 
Lewis Hall Revisited 
J)par Editor: The Lewis Hall 
debate took a new turn when Obsl"rver printed the first rebut­tals from the apparent advocates of the Administration's decision. Both a letter to the editor and a signed column suggested that graduate student arguments in favor of keeping Lewis a graduate hall were invalid in that they were based on self-interest, and the column went on to suggest that the graduate students learn to make some sacrifices. Now these two points have a high moral tone to them, of the sort that we all know and love here at Notre Dame, but, while we admire the style, I think we would do well to inquire into the validity of the logic involved. 
The first point, the charge of self­interest, was posited as a sufficient response to all the well-considered arguments raised by the Lewis women in favor of retaining their present home, as if the reasoning behind these arguments was somehow invalidated by the ad­vantage accruing to the women should their points carry. Now, in that this charge was made by a 
C.S.C. priest and an un­dergraduate arguing in favor of the Administration's decision, it does not take any great degree of mental gymnastics to discern that the same charge could be turned against them . But, more to the point, the reasoning behind the charge is specious in the extreme. 
Are we to cry "Content!" to the University's faults, simply because a few reforms would be to our advantage? By the same token, we should not defend our­selves in court, or support political parties, or take medicine, because of the wicked self-interest in­volved. 
If the women at Lewis have valid arguments in favor of their position, then their self-interest does not alter that validity, and the mere charge of self-interest does not alter that validity, and the mere charge of self-interest is a totally insufficient answer to them. 
As an off-campus male graduate student, my priviate interest in Lewis Hall is minimal, and yet I can honestly say that I believe the Administration's decision was founded on considerations which were other than academic, and is a grave mistake. 
The second point, that graduate students ought to learn to make sacrifices, is equally fatuous, and was obviously made by someone ill-acquainted with graduate life. While the column writer was quick to point out that undergraduates study, too, he seemed less eager to recognize the much greater in­tensity involved in graduate studies, an intensity which is often coupled with the difficulties of beginning a new career in teaching. Further, the writer is apparently unfamiliar with the economic sacrifices made by graduate students, who must get by on loans or minimal T.A. salaries, unsupported by their parents and, in some cases, sup­porting families of their own. And while the writer was quick to recite the tiresome litany of un­dergraduate dormitories allocated to women in recent years, he neglected to point out the already limited campus facilities for 
, graduates and failed to note that the majority of graduate students never have the opportunity to live on campus because of the lack of room. II, for one, am not holding my breath until that graduate housing complex goes up.) Now, while it may be objected that we elect this situation when we come to Notre Dame, I simply wish to point out to the writer of the column that graduate students are not unacquainted with sacrifice. I would further question his place to suggest sacrifice to people whose situation he has not the least grasp of. If he is in a Lenten mood, fine; sacrifice is our own business. As Alexander Pope so elegantly put it, "I never met a man who could not bear another's misfortunes like a true Christian." These cheap rhetorical flourishes based on facile moral hilosophy are bad enou h. but far 
DOONESBURY 

HOIU5HOUtlJ I KNOtU 
JVHERe TO 6CT 7JIQ11f 7RY THE JIJNIOR COU£GES/ CAlL H.&. U/. -7JIEYPROB-
ABlY Rt£5/. WHAT?.. 
worse is this subtle -animosity growing between graduates and 
undergraduates. This needless bickering serves no one's purpose with the exception of those ad­mimstrators who have conspired to exclude all students from the decision-making process. They are the real source of problem and I am sure they are glact to have the attention of the debate focussed elsewhere. 
Stephl"n L. Trainor 
SMC Election Procedures 
J)par Editor. 
After reading "SMC election draw one ticket," I feel a column of explanation should be afforded "student. whose name is held upon request." 
Tuesday evening I was contacted by the Obsl"J'\"l"r and asked my opinion concerning one ticket running for the St. Marv's student government elections The reporter explained that she had been trying to contact Katie Kearney (Election Commissioner) and Joanne Garret (Legislative Commissioner) and with negative results decided to contact a member of the student body for an opinion concerning one ticket. After stating that I had no reflections upon thematter other than I was disappointed that more response was not generated by the student body and that it is for­tunate that this ticket has had previous student government experience. 
Following, the reporter asked if I had any comments concerning the requirement of candidates for office to run on a full ticket and the limited Observer publicity used to make the SMC student body aware of the nominations. <One article was printed concerning nominations the day of the nominations deadline, Monday Marcy 10l. 
In closing, my name was withheld from thearticle because myself and another member of our community are presently drafting a proposal to the Student Assembly concerning election procedures and tickets, and desired not to cause injustice to the proposal in 
the  event  of  misquote  on  the  
reporters part.  
At this time  I hope it's  to  be  

understood by all parties involved that my intentions were not to use the Observer to slam our student government; and <after discussing earlier this week with a member of the student assembly) would be the proper action to take. 
Sincerely, 
studl"nt whose name was witheld 
Judy Mardoian 
by Garry Trudeau 

~ 
I At.R/611T, 7JI~N-GOOf)! 
NOW IUIATIIIJO(JT MY REQJEST ~SACR/RC/111-VIRGINS?.. JVH/17?. 1/)()1<, IT:S 7lJO a;r.1Pt.JCAmJ m&x­
Pt/1/N! TAK£ MY 1/KJRP-!T:S 

/Dell, SIX 
SHOUW6CT 
(/5 7l-l/i!f')(j3H MANY? TO RAINY SEASON. 
HO«/ 
Gay Prayer Praised 
()par Editor. 
I was happy and touched to see the "prayer of a homosexual" printed in Wednesday's Obsl"rvl"r. Having friends who are gay, and knowing somewhat of their plight in dealing with Christianity, I hoped that this prayer would be of some value to them. Yet shortly after having read your paper I saw the same prayer taped to the door ofmv H.A.'s room. with comments penc.iled in relating the prayer to the H.A. and his friends. The glosser remained anonymous. 
Look. kiddies, whoever you are, isn't life bad l'nough at this place without t•mbarrasing your H.A., eommiting minor sacrilege and summing up your irresponsibility by dumping on yet another despisPd minority? Perhaps you should reconsider why you spent about $16,000 and four years of precious life at Notre Dame. Hopefully your intention was not to grow in humanitas, if so, you blew it. Please desist of making public 
displays of your intellectual  and  
moral  failure;  some  of  us  are  
depressed enough already.  

Yours, John J. Graczak 
All letters to the editor should be sent to The Observer, Post Office Box Q. 
Only letters with names and ad­dresses will be considered for print. 
Signatures  will  be  withheld  upon  
request,  but  signed  letters  will  be  
given priority.  

All letters are subject to editing for l,ength and content. 
the observer 
Night Editor: Tom O'Neil Asst. Night Editor: Ginny Faust Layout staff: Dan Sanchez, Bob Mader, Valface, Mary Janca, Gregg Bangs, Terry Keeney, Martha Fanning, Julie Pelletier! 
Day Editor: Val Zurblls Ce>PY Reder: Ken Girouard, Jeanne Murphy Editorials: Jim Eder Sports: Greg "the Greek" Corgan 
Typists: Jim Landis, Mary Tobin, Tom Modglin Comptlgraphic: Morey Blinder Night Controllers: Rick Huber, "toward Halle ute Typist: Howard Halle Picture Screener: Albert Ad uyout: Whales 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

Hesburgh 
by Pat Cuneo Staff Reporter 
Recent letter exchanges between 
University President Fr. Theodore 
Hesburgh and President Gerald 
Ford greatly affected develop­
ments that increased food aid 
toward the world hunger problem. 
The White House decision of 
February 1 increased food aid by 
approximately two million tons 
and $600 million, to totals of 5.5 
million tons of food and $1.5 billion 
respectively. 
Beginning Friday, November 22, 
1974, numerous organizations and 
individuals joined Fr. Hesburgh in 
an appeal to President Ford urging 
him to increase food aid in the 
manner in which the President 
actually decided the question. 
During the November 22 press eonference, Hesburgh was backed by Cardinal Cooke of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, Patricia Young of the National Council of Churches, Rabbi Tanenbaum of the American Jewsih Committee, and Herbert Waters of the World Hunger Action Coalition. This meeting prompted the first letter by Hesburgh in plea of government food aid. 
President Ford responded in a positive manner on December 9, but refused at that time to render a decision. "Your proposal is made at a time when America faces many difficult decisions and ehoices if it is to continue to play a responsible leading role in this interacpendent world as well as 
provide for the needs of its own e•tizens. We must attack both 
In South Bend schools 
In Pirg studies teaching effectiveness 
by Bob Mader 
Staff Heporter 
The Notre Dame chapter of InPirg yesterday discussed a proposal for studying the ef­fectiveness of mathematics and I<:nglish instruction in South Bend public schools as well as several organizational aspects of the InPirg group. 
The school system study was proposed by Kevin Dickerson of Pangborn Hall, and it is to determine the amount of con­tinuity which presently exists between prmary and secondary schools in the teaching of mathematics and English. Deficiencies and overlap in teaching methods would also be investigated, and solutions suggested to alleviate these problems. 
Objections were raised about the scope of the project. Chairman Joseph Sickich commented, "It sounds like the topic of a sociology dissertation. The board members also forsaw problems .. with analyzing teaching methods in such a way which would produce valid results in statistical form. 
InPirg State Organizer and guest 
at the meeting, Richard' War':"ick, 
suggested a careful analysis of 
syllabi in thlse subjects, m order 

THE STEPFORD WIVES 
A W'fY modem SUSp<>IISl' story from the .oulhcw ol Rosmwry> B.Jby. 
ACOlUMBIA PICTURES and 1\\lOMAR PICTURES INTERNATIONAl Presemahon. AFids1n Cmema Assoc•ates Producrion 
influenced 
inflation and recession at home 
and, at the same time, build new 
relationships with major ad­
versaries abroad. We must also 
promote peace in the Middle East, 
Improve the world trading and 
monetary systems, and assist the 
poorer developing nations," said 
Ford in his letter. 
As you know, each of these goals is important, "and failure to realize them could adversely af­fect the lives of many millions of people," Ford said. 
Ford advised the possibilities for an increased private response for food aid but in his December 14 reply to the President, Hesburgh and various organizations felt, "that early and substantial action by the U.S. Government was necessary if there was to be anything approaching an adequate response to the need." 
On January 21, of this year, President Ford again failed to reach a decision but stated, "When my decisions are made, I shall instruct the agencies responsible for carrying out the food aid program to do so urgently. Given this guidance, I am sure that they will do the job, I hope that this government's action will be of assistance to you and others in encouraging the private sector to redouble its own efforts to help meet the food shortage problem." 
Following the White House decision. Hesburgh wrote Ford "All of us have been heartened by your ~ction and want to send you our smcere gratitude for your generous leadership in this mat­
ter." 
to find results which could be put into statistical form. However, no vote was taken on the project since Dickerson was unable to attend and defend his proposal. 
The board also decided to set up a table in the Library Lobby on Wednesdays between the hours of 
I:00 to 5 pm and 7:00 to 9:00pm in order to distribute available surveys on consumer items. 
Other business included a vote to transfer InPirg funds from St. .Joseph Bank and Trust to the First National Bank in accordance with the results of the InPirg bank survey. The Board of Directors was informed of arrrangements to 
NCAA BASKETBALL PEP RALLY 
TONIGHT MARCH 13 
FEATURED SPEAKERS: 
CO-CAPTAIN PETE CROTTY CO-CAPTAIN DWIGHT CLAY & BLUE TEAM CAPTAIN TOM VARGA COACH DIGGER PHELPS 
STEPAN -6:45 "LET'S DO IT TOGETHER" 
food aid 
hungry people. Currently only about twenty per cent of the food allocation has laready been bought and sent on its way. 
Hesburgh expressed the hope that the process can be speeded up in the near future since the worst starvation period will occur throughout March and April. 
In the private sector, Hesburgh added, "Even here at Notre Dame I was happy to see a large per­centage of our students freely eating rice and tea on two oc­casions so that the differential in the price of the meal might be sent to the hungr} in Bangladesh." 
Hesburgh feels that "while the 
U.S. Government decision has been late in coming, and a second major tranche of additional assistance unlikely, the additional two million tons of Governmental food aid does justify even further efforts on the part of the private sector to provide assistance to sorely distressed areas." 
The university president believes that the American people rlo feel deeply enough on this issue to take individual actions and not to leave the response solely to governmental programs. 
Most importantly, Hesburgh 1-ooes, "we can continue to 
demonstrate our deep sense of concern on the importance of ef­fective follow-up on the major resolutions of ' the World Food Conference." 
The Conference has outlined the principles for a cooperative global approach to solving food problems, including objectives to be ad­dressed over the next decade and the institutional structures and means for attaining them. 
attend the InPirg state meeting in Indianapolis this Saturday by Shickich. 
Warwick outlined the current progress in organizing InPirg chapters across the state, noting that there soon will be six chapters in northern Indiana, three of them in South Bend. 
Consequently, by next year, Warwick explained, these organizations will oe able to work together on large projects such as investigating local public utilities. There will be a statewide con­ference on the utilities issue on March 20 in Indianapolis spon­sored by the Movement for ~~eonomic Justice. 
Thursday, March 13, 1975 ·the observer 
5 
ANTHROPOLOGY Meet-your-maior get-together Sun. March 16 8 pm Library Lounge 
HUNTER S. THOMPSON 
speaking on 
''The Reconstruction of American Politics" 
FRIDAY, MARCH 14 WASHINGTON HALL PUBLIC INVITED FREE 

N 0 W APPEARING 
SKIP VAN WINKLE 
AND 
LISTEN 
~Shu/a~ r/ile 
(/ut
NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS on U.S. jJ llttween llies. So. B•d-FrM l'lrtin&-6&3-4350. 
............................................... 
:THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION: ; PROUDLY PRESENTS :
• 
i• SUNSHINE i• i A TRIP TO FREEPORT E i IN THE BAHAMAS ! !• 8 DAYS & 7 NIGHTS !• 
• FOR ONLY • 
i $249°0 i ­
: INCLUDES: : 
i• * ROUND TRIP AIR FARE VIA DC-9 i• : FROM SOUTH BEND : :• * MEALS AND LIQUOR IN-FLIGHT : • :• • * ACCOMODATIONS AT THE • :• : CASTAWAYS : :• * CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST DAILY .: •• i * FULL .DINNER DAILY ! :• * U.S. DEPARTURE TAX •: 
i OPTIONS: i : SAILING, TENNIS, GOLF, SCUBA ! 
! DIVING, DEEP-SEA FISHING, i : · SCOOTER RENTALS, SNORKELING 
:•
• 
i $50 DEPOSIT REQUIRED ! ! SIGN UP NOW ! 
:BROCHURES AND INFO AVAILABLE AT • 
. . 
. 
:STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE (2nd : :Floor LaFortune) OR CALL 283-3031 : 
e I e : PLUS TAX AND GRATUITIES/PRICE : : IS PRO-RATA CHARTER PRICE :· 
: OPEN TO NO C'nAAUIINITV ·
•••••.•••••••••••••••••••i'eeee.·eAe,e•••••••••••: 
6 the observer Thursday, March 13, ms 
Return cards by April IS 
Students react to housing contract 

by Gregg Bangs Staff Reporter 
In late February, Notre Dame undergraduates received housing contracts in the mail. For those already living off-eampus, it was a simple matter of returning the enclosed computer card to the Housing office by April 15 without signing their names. This meant they intended to stay off-eampus again. However, on-campus students who were debating whether or not to stay on were forced to contemplate what they really wanted to do next year. 
Some might argue that reason enough to move orr might be found in the laundry service or·cafeteria system, but , others more frequently cited is found in the housing contract itself. To be specific, it is found in the last paragraph of the housing regulations section and is known as the "no knock" policy. 
In whole, the policy states: "The University reservPs the right to make whatever reassignment or adjustment in accomodations deemed necessary; to inspect rooms for cleanliness or to make repairs; to enter rooms without a search warrant for the purpose of maintiningsecurity, discipline and the orderly operation of an educational institution." 
It is the last clause 'of this policy that many students feel is un­necessary and an infringement upon their rights. One off-eampus student who did not wish to be identified said that it was reason he moved off as a sophomore. "I could take the parietals and even the cr~ckdow~on booze, but after Burtchaell busted in that kid's room in Dillon last year, there was no way I was staying on." 
"Not that I have anything to hide, but who is he to snoop around my personal possessions?" he explained. 
Thet Dillon Hall incident oc­curred last academic year during Thanksgiving break when evidence of a female staying in a room during that vacation was found while nobody was in the room. 
The student in question was later suspended, which led to Dillon Hall staging its own protests against Fr. James Burtchaell, the man who found the evidence, and John 
-
Macheca, Dean of Students. The protests took the form of anti-
Macheca signs and banners and a '· general feeling of resentment 
. 
1 
against the two administrators. 
Another off-campus resident who did not wish to be identified echoed these feelings. "I agree with (the first student questioned). 
Not only was the Dillon Hall in­cident a disgrace, but I'm positive there was some room-snooping over in Flanner when Mulcahey kicked some kids off early this semester." 
"In general, I think the policy is just an excuse to play big -brother .. You'd think something like that was illegal," he said. 
"No-knock" clause is legal 
Quite to the contrary, as a matter of fact. According to a third-year law student at the Student Legal Aid and Defender Assocation is very legal. Andrew Napolitano explained that the dormitory situation at Notre Dame is not a typically landlord to rentor situation. 
"A landlord could not have a lease like this. When you rent, the estate is land and it is to the ex­clusion of the owner. To use something like this against a person in court would not hold up in that particular situation," he explained. 
Napolitano then pointed out that this is not the case at Notre Dame, as well as most college campuses. "A student living here is not renting property. The 'University· is not making any money letting students stay in the dormitories. The money you pay goes to reimbursing the University for the expenses it incurs in running these buildings," he said. 
The University is also running 
under the fact that the property (in 
this case, the dormitories) is 
depreciating. "Most property 
depreciates as it gets older and the 
dorms are a case in point. They 
depreciate from use and they're 
not making any money from what 
they pay on used water, heat and 
electricity. It is obvious that 
they're not making a profit, so they 
have the right to retain a contract 
to protect their property," 
Napolitano added. 
In regards to the "no-knock" policy ,he said that it is "legal, 'but 
that it could not be abused under 
ridiculous circumstances." In 
fact, I almost think it's gracious of 
the University to put it in the 
Maurice Stans pleads guilty 
Wi\SIII!'I;GTO!'I: <lJPI >--Former Commerce Secretary Maurice H. Stand pleaded guilty Wednesday to campaign finance violations-the third member of Richard M. Nixon's Cabinet to plead guilty or be convicted of Watergate-related crimes. 
The silver-haired Stans, 66, stood with bowed head and hands clasped in front of him as he pleaded guilty in a low voice to a 
five-eount misdemeanor in­volving~.-the former President's 1972 re-election campaign. 
U.S. District Judge John Lewis Smith released Stans on his oer-

CALL THEATRE FOR TIMES! "STARTS FRIDAY"/ 
FLIX 1 
A GEORGE ROY Hill ~II M 
"THE STING,. 
tofte t=llx 
Twin The81rea/100 Center 

5 
sonal recognizance and, at ·the request of defense lawyers, left open the sentencing date. 
Watergate Prosecutor Thomas 
F. McBride said each of the five counts carried a maximum penalty of $1,000 fine and one year in prison. But Walter Bonner Stans' lawyer, contended the thre~ counts of failure to report did not carry a prison sentence. 
"The 1972 election and its af­termath have taken three years of my life," Stans told reporters later, "during which time I have been heavily occupied in defense of civil and criminal actions." 
GET THA,T "STOP ON A DIME" FEEL WITH. RELINED BRAKE SHOES
BONDED PASS. CAR ONLY 3u PF.~ 
. SHOE 
BUY 6 QT. OF OIL GET OIL FILTER FOR 1.89 
MOTORCART <PASS. ONLY> 1 
1101 E. MADISON 
·~ ;\~ ~~~~s .. 
fioffman bros FRI. 8-6 
---SAT.B-3 ~ SUN.9·12 
observer 
contract-they don't have to do it because they have the right to do what they want with their private property. This clause enables people to understand what the University is doing, to make people know they're not landlords," he related. 
Napolitano also com 'llented upon the University's positi ln of in loco parentis. "The University has put itself in place of parents and has the privilege to act as parents in ~nalogous situations," he contmued. 
"For safety if nothing else" 
Fr. John Mulcahy , rector of Flanner Hall and Director. of Student Housing, thought that it was necessary for "the University to have the right to enter rooms." 
"For safety, if nothing else. We had a student fall asleep while smoking a cigarette and he had his door locked. I think that was a situation that dictated the use of the policy," he added. 
According to Mulcahy , it was 
only recently that this specific 
clause was written in. "The 
Housing office has only been in 
existence for six years and this 
contract is only four years old," 
Mulcahy said. 
Before then it was understood, 
and assumed that the 
University could enter a room. 
The Legal Aid worker thought that 
it was a good idea to put it into 
print because "recently, students 
have tended to question things that 
were once thought of as sacred. 
By putting this once assumed 
clause on paper, students can see it 
in black and white," he added. 
Mulcahy• acknowledged that 
most universities and colleges 
have a policy similar to ours." "As 
far as I knew, all have have similar 
clauses to ours," he related. 
Fr. Dave Schla ver, rector of 
Dillon Hall, admitted the only time 
he likes to use his pass key "is 
when I have to let a student in his 
room because he forgot his." 
"I just don't go into a room 
unless it is an emerg~ncy. I trust 
rooms should not be abused and 
students trust their rights 
shoul~n 't be abused. If they live up 
to their end of the bargain I'll live 
up to mine," he said. ' 
~chlaver said he would only go to 
a student's room if he was in the 
room. "We're under in loco 
parentis, but I don't like to enter 
rooms for any reaosn for the 
insir:~ht: 
principle of it. As far as the clause itself goes, it's nothing new, it was just put into writing to warn students. It is not a readjustment of policy, it's just finally been spelled out," Schlaver com­mented. 
Even though Schlaver professes no great desire for using the policy, many students questioned think there is no reason for the policy to even exist. "The basic Burtchaell­Dillon-Hall-Incident of last year and the ensuing student reaction reflects the animosity toward that certain clause in the Housing contract," Leo Hansen, a sophomore stated. 
Andy Swanfeldt, also a sophomore seemingly agreed with Hansen. "When the University claims to be a progressive educational Christian institution, there should be no reason to violate student's private lives by main­taining a no-knockpolicy;• he said. 
When asked if the rules bothered him, Swanfeldt replied, "You know it's ille~al to tie a horse to a pa.rking meter m Texas, so there's a lot ot' stupid rules around. This just hap pens to be one of them." 
Joanne Toeniskoetter, a sophomore from Badin Hall, thought the rule could be used with a little more discretion. "I think t~e rule infringes on peoples' nghts. If a person came into a room to close a window or something and saw something they wouldn't have normally seen I think it would be wrong to use that against them," she pointed out. 
Dan Daily, a sophomore from Alumni Hall, did not disagree with the whole policy. He thought the general idea of theclausewas right, but that the "rector, or whoever is coming, should knock before he comes in. If it's after hours and you have a girl on the third floor it will be pretty hard to get her oui," he commented. 
John Cogley, a Dillon Hall senior, didn't see anything wrong with the rule. "As long as you're discrete and don't infringe on other people in the hall, you're not going to get in trouble." Cogley later added that he was only speaking from a Dillon Hall point of view. 
Perhaps sophomore Mark Budd summed up a common view of the ~ssue. "It's been here for ages and It probably will be for more. I can't do anything about it and besides, I'm going to Rome next year." 
MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES 
* 
2 FILMS * 
BOOKSTORE 
* 
LIVE FLOOR SHOW 
1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET CAll 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION 
"A masterful accomplishment! One of the most affecting pictures in years." 
-Arthur Knight, Saturday Review 



Thursday, March 13, 1975 the observer 
7 
Proposals presented to •Incorporate halls 
by John Feeney Starr Reporter 
Professor Peter Walshe has presented a system incorporating the residence halls into academic life. In a proposal submitted to the Social Science Sub-Committee of the Dean's Committee, for the Study of the Liberal Arts College, Walshe, assistant professor of government and international college of Arts and Letters should studies, first proposed his supplement its undergraduate suggestions for the improvement teaching by permitting a degree of of hall life in 1972. academic initiatitive in the halls of 
"The essence of the idea," stated what has become a predominantly Walshe, "is that the quality of life residential university. The could be immensely enhanced. proposals should be viewed as a P.alls .could become a more means to increasing the options humane community." presently available to students. 
Walshe maintains that _the "We are in very grave danger of 
Ford plans busy campus schedule 
(continued from page 1) 
students.  By going the  
academic  route  is  to  take those  
students  who  have  become  

members of the College Councils." 
The student government leaders were obvious choices, according to Conklin. The number of invited students and faculty is about 50. 
Ford will also appear before a luncheon of presidents of Big Ten and local Indiana colleges and universities. The event will be sponsored by Hesburgh and may include representatives from almost 50 colleges and univer­sities. Dr. William Burke, assistant provost, is inviting the presidents. A listing of the invited officials was not available. 
The scheduled luncheon with Midwest media executives, unlike that for the college presidents, is being planned by the White House. About 75 executives, including newspaper publishers, editors and 
SEE YOU ON ST. PAT'S DAY! WEAR YOUR SWEENEY'S SHIRT "lots of green beer" 

WANTED 
3hitch hiking to Fla. Mar. 21. Need one more to travel in pairs. Tom 8796 
Need ride to Buffalo Friday March 21 Call Tom 8489 
Need ride to or near Dayton Ohio on 3-14. Call Don 8982 
I need a ride to Houston for spring break. Please call 1387 
Need ride to Chicago (O'Hare) Wed. Mar. 19. Call Maryann 4867 
Please! Need ride to DC for Spring break. Can leave anytime, share$. Call Mari 234-6699 
Need ride for two at break to and from Ft. Lauderdale. Call John 1067 
Housemate wanted. 4 room house with basement, back yard, garage. Very nice rooms. Excellent neigh­borhood. Call Jeff at 283-7234 or 234-2931 
HELP! Temporary (1 year) home sought tor 1 or 2 cats. We'll pay tor food and vet costs. We don't want to put them to sleep. Please calli Steve 232-9428 
Need ride to Madison, Wise., this Friday, about noon. Call 3384 
Ride wanted. We gotta git outa dis place. Anybody going to or thru Fort Lauderdale and has room for 2 more sun bunnies call Candy 6922 or Laura 6927 
3 women need ride to Arizona for Spring Break. Call 1272 or 1260 
Need ·riders to Pittsburgh this weekena. Leave Friday afternoon, return Sunday. Call Kevin 8867 
Wanted: Ride tor 2 to Cleveland ttlis weekend. Will share driving & expenses. Call Dan 8829 
Need Riders-One way only-_to Pgh. Friday AM 289-3702 
broadcast executives from Indiana 
and  surrounding  states  are  ex­ 
pected to attend.  
The  reception  and  dinner  for  

Midwest governors will follow a regional news conference scheduled for 6 p.m. Monday. Governors from as far away as Virginia have confirmed that they '";11 attend, according to Conklin. 
1iana Governor Otis Bowen will attend the dinner. Ap­pointment secretaries for governors from surrounding states, including Daniel Walker m-llU, Ray Milliken <R·Mich.l and James Rhodes <R-Ohio), have denied knowledge of planned appearances at Notre Dme next Monday by their governors. 
Conklin explained ' that the governors' working dinner is not strictly a regional affair. "The governors invited to Notre Dame are those not invited to other 
THURSDAY PITCHER BEER N 
TONIGHT FROM BUFFALO, NY: -"IAN QUAIL" 
WHITE 
HOUSE I.NN 
NO COVER
2839 N. 5th 
683-9842
Just 8 mi. north of the state line. 
Take U.S. 31 north to Niles, then north on highway 513 mi. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Needed: Ride to Tu-lsa, this weekend. Call Kathy, 5186 
Help! Need ride to Florida (St. Peters) must leave before Thurs. night-Buzz 1150 
Need ride to Manhattan, Ks, but Kansas City is good enough (Break) Kevin 1416 
Need 1 or 2 riders to Cleveland or 
N.E. Ohio leave tomorrow 4:30 Jim. 256-0281 or 289-2191 
FOR SALE 
for sale: Cyn sonic eight track stereo car tape player. Easily romovable from car to prevent theft. Best offer. Call Dave 234-6593 
For Sale-Hexcei Comps-$150 Olin Mark IV's $100 Good condition 8012 
For Sale; Pioneer Receiver and 2 Electra Voice Speakers. Call 1759. 270 Dillon 
1974 Camaro-AVTO, Power, AC, AM-FM custom interior 232-8600 
Sale! 2 Rectilinear xa speakers. Orig. $400-now $225 for the palr. Call Tom Cordell at WNDU 233­7.111 
Olympic S-track player-recorder with AM-FM stereo. includes 2 air­suspension speakers. Call 255-5848 
SR-10 Texas Instruments calculator-Like new $60. Call Steve 8570 
For Sale cheap! Refrigerator, oven-storage cabinet , small tables, 2 living room chairs, small desk. All in excellent condition. Call Steve 232-9428 
NOTICES 
Take the Greyhound from Notre Dame to Chicago every Friday at 
4:40. Two buses return Sunday. . Call Tom 272-1807 
governors' conferences," he said. 
:stuaents attending the Special Academic Convocation on Monday will not be permitted to make any demonstration or political protest. Conklin emphasized that no banners or placards will be per­mitted in the arena because the event, like commencement proceedings, is an academic, not political, event. 
"As is the system at com· mencement, banners of any type are inappropriate," Conklin said. "This decision arises from the nature of the event as an Academic Convocation, not as a political rally." 
Local media will provide live coverage of the Academic Con­vocation and the 6 p.m. press conference. WNDU has announced plans to air both events live. Plans of other local stations were not available. 
losing the appeal we have now" continued Walshe, "because we'~e not using our full potential. If we don't take residential life seriously, there will soon be no distinction between Notre Dame and o_ther larger universities, and we will lose the top students now attending." 
Professor Walshe's proposals are the following: 
1) Where an academic hall is established, approximately one third of the credits for the B.A. should be obtained by study within the hall. Students would still have to meet the requirements of their major disciplines and would obtain a majority of their credits through participation in course offerings as organized by the departments. 
2) The initiative to start an academic hall should come from a group of interested students and faculty. Hall faculty would be appointed by the departments, preferab_ly those whose training and-or mterests lie within the academic fo.:us of the hall. Such an appointment would involve dual responsibilities, namely in the tutorial and seminar context of the hall, as well as offering courses in the relevant department. It is hoped that the initial few halls established in this manner would serve as precedents for the widespread adaptation of hall life in which a diversity of hall in­terests and structures -would be welcomed. There should also be room for students to retain the existing degree -structure and remain in the halls as presently organized. 
3) Ther~ co_uld be the opportunity for specialized contacts with faculty in adjacent halls for all those students interested. 
4) It is possible to envisage several means by which a hall would establish its own academic character and focus. This might be done by emphasizing a group of dis~iplines, for example Theology, Sociology, Psychology or various other areas. 
5) It may be appropriate to structure hall life on a three year sequence involving those above freshman year, giving the hall the option of organizing a seuqence of studies as the student advances from year to year. 
·­
The committee is discussing the possibilities and will report to the trustees before the end of the semester. 
N.D. Rowing Club presents 
St. Paddy's 
at the Heidleburg 
Sat. March 15 8:30-1:30 
2.50 for guys 
2.00 for girls 
Typing-experienced in term papers and dissertations. Reasonable, accurate. 232-5715 
Western Electronic 24 hour TV service. 1530 Western Ave. 282-1955 
Men and women with two years of college left! Want to invest six weeks this summer and assure yourself a second career as an Army Officer upon graduation? Earn approximately $500.00 this summer and gain self-confidence! No obligation. For information contact CPT Weimer at 283-6265 about Army ROTC Basic Camp 
Senior Club invites all its members to partake of a cup of warm coffee (Irish that is) to start St. Patricks Day off right. Festivities begin at 
11:00 AM 
PIE FACE UNLIMITED. WE WILL HIT ANY STUDENT ON CAMPUS. GUARANTEED. LOW RATES. SEND NAME AND PHONE AND VICTIMS NAME AND WE WILL CONTACT YOU. JOE DOE, 400 PANGBORN 
Can an insane whore get it on with 
· a homosexual composer? Find out by seeing "The Music Lovers" starring Richard Chamberlain and Glenda Jackson. Music by the London Symphonic O¥chestra. Sunday, March 16 Engineering Auditorium. 7, 9, 11 PM $1.00 
Married couple needed for live in houseparents for foster home. Salary. Write: P.E.P. Inc. 3012 S. Twyckenham, South Bend, Ind. 46614 
Greg Hunkler has called-it the greatest movie ever made. Randy Kaufman thinks it's the best thing since sliced bread. BefOre you go to Kub's stop and see whaf they're talking about. "The Music Lovers" starring Richard Chamberlain and Glenda Jackson. Ken Russel's interpretation of the lite of Peter Tchaikovsky. Sunday~ March 16. 7, 9, 11 PM Engineering Auditorium. 
$1.00 . 
NCAA B-BALL PEP RALLY THURS-STEPAN-6:45 LETS DO IT TOGETHER 
Accurate, Fast Typing. Northeast section South Bend. Reasonable Phone 232-0746 
FOR RENT 
Four Student houses available Sept. '75 Groups of 3, 4, & 5. Call 287-7818 Mornings before 9:30 or evenings 
2 five bedroom houses for rent tor next school year. Excellent con­dition, furnished within •;, mile of campus. Call 233-2613 
Furnished houses available now for summer and fall rental. Phone 289-2602 or 234-9364 
For rent: Small completely ap­pointed furnished apartment: Air cond., shower, tub. Well suited tor one graduate student. Has been so occupied for the last 10 years; $60.00 per month, utilities paid. Call 232-5337 or 234-8789 tor ap­pointment. Will be vacant Apr. 1st. 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: Bag of acrylic paints and brushes. Please call 234-6699 
Lost: Blue coil ND notebook with Psych notes and research paper inside. Needed desperately. Call 277-0057 
· Lost: Ladies• wristwatch with narrow silver band. Reward. 8135 
Lost-silver cross at ACC Monday night-Fisher-Holy Cross hockey .game. Reward. 3010 evenings 
PERSONALS 
To Juls Walsh, This is your very own personal ad A Minnie Mouse Fan '­
-~ 
GREAT SCOTT! COME TO LOUIE'S JUMBO BEER SPECIAL MON THRU THURS. 5 PM to 9 PM 
To the Blow Chow Gang, Traying is tun, but we'd prefer the sun this weekend. · Sultry Bitch and friend 
Pete: Too bad Schnopps aint your thing. Next time you're gonna pass out. Give us a ring. V-6763, and 21 yr. old. archy. 
Ann & Grace (Beth) Need drinking lessons? Exclusive course being offered April 4, 3:20 p.m.---? Bring money_ & 
·boutonnieres • the lower half of the pyramia. 
P. S. Pass out much Grace? Like your flower, Ann 
Dear Linda, Have many boyfriends? Love, Mike 
Happy Hour at Kubiaks Fri. Mar 14 3:30-6:30 pm. Sponsored by Grace Hall 
Wish Joan "What's Her Butt" a Happy Birthday. Call 1347 
There was a young girl from the' 
~~ . 
Who slept on Thursdays till one at 
least Then one day her man called And said, but stalled 
Wake up but don't be a beast. P.W. 
Boss Man, 
What was the name of Donald Duck's uncle? Magic Fingers 
OBSERVER I 
.CLASSIFIEDS. ADS 
GET RESULTS CALL 747 
•.J 
Netters open '75 season this weekend 

going undefeated. 
1959 NCAA title with Tulane. TENNIS TEAM co-captain John Carrico anchors what should be a well "balanced" Irish net squad Juan lnchauste posted a 25-3"If I had to pick a highlight of my this spring. 
won-lost record last year for the career, it would have to be the our greatest asset," adds Fallon. "Randy has improved "John is very competitive," best winning percentage on the 
1959 season," says Fallon, "that, ''In fact we have so much that it tremendously," contends Fallon. I<'allon observes. "He has imr­club. The junior engineeringand the Eastern Collegiate has posed some problems. On a "He is left-handed which is to his poved over the year. He is a good student was a quarter-finalist in victories." From 1966 through given day anybody can beat advantage. Besides that, he is a leader, and will make an excellent the Orange Bowl in 1968 and1968 the Irish captured the Eastern anybody. It makes us tough up and fine. all-around athlete who plans captain." 
represented Bolivia in the Sun­
Collegiate title and thus retired the down the line." his game well." Senior Chris Kane will be en­shine Bowl Tournament in 1971. 
Ackerman Bowl, symbolic of On the basis of fall practice Also returning from the 1974 tering his fourth season of varsity Juan's brother Ron represented
Eastern Collegiate tennis sophomore Randy Stehlik was squad is senior John Carrico. The competition. The gutty performer Bolivia in the prestigious 
supremacy. listed at the top slot. The southpaw man with the cannon-ball serve, from Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. has Federation Cup Competition from 
The 1975 season could be one to from Peru, Indiana captured 23 Carrico was elected captain by his accumulated 31 victories in his 1966 to 1972. The senior from 
remember for the veteran coach. matches out of 30 last season in his teammates for the upcoming career with the Irish, posting a 16­LaPaz played against Brazil in He certainly has the talent-and the first taste of collegiate com-season. Carrico posted an 11-6 14 record last year. He has 1971 as the youngest member of the 
balance. "Balance appears to be petition. record last year. alternated between the number Bolivian Davis Cup team. He was 
one and two spot for the last couple 
5-1 last season. of seasons. 
The Irish get their season un­
When he is not on the gridiron, derway on March 15 when theyjunior Rick Slager will see action face Western Michigan away.for the netters. Playing in the For their spring trip they will number one slot last season, Slager 
Harbert after second win in 
journey to Texas to participate in
Bengal Bouts finals tonight compiled a 12-11 record. 
the Galveston Island Invitational, "Rick's playing is a definite and return to face Indiana at home plus," Fallon maintains. "He on April 8. 
by T. E. McHale Harbert's title defense this year Napolitano. "He really builds uphas not been an easy one. The 150 
everyone's confidence," the junior 
pound division features more
E<'or a guy who is used to batting says. "He takes a personal in­a ball around a baseball diamond, terest in all of us, and he's always 
experienced fighters than any of batting people around a boxing the other weight classes. got time for everyone. It's really ring, while getting batted around Besides Harbert, the division encouraging to have that kind of 
*Observer
includes John Albers, a quar­support."
himself, can represent something terfinalist last year, as well as a
of a novelty. Such is the situation The Sycamore, Ill., product has 
of defending Bengal Bout cham­pair of semifinalists in Mike Shaw been doing some tutoring of his pion Phil Harbert. and Notre Dame Boxing Club own. He worked over Christmas Harbert came to Notre Dame president Jim Clune. "They're all break with a group of 9-15 year old a year older and a year smarter,"
three years ago with the idea of boys in a newly-initiated boxing
Harbert observes. "There won't 
Sports
playing baseball. "I tried out for program at the Sycamore com­
be an easy fight along the way."
the team as shortstop," he relates. munity center. "I went down to 
Nonetheless, with a win over
"I could field pretty well, but I help hold the punching bags and I 
Mike Shaw in the semifinals last worked out with the guys to keep
couldn't hit the curve ball, so I gave it up and turned to boxing." uight, Harbett has again earned myself in shape. Eight of the kids Phil entered the Bengals with no him a spot in the championship entered state competition and five
bout. _
previous ring experience, but there of them won their divisions. It was
A good deal of the credit for 
were many aspects of the ,program a pretty good showing for a first 
Cage rally slated tonight 
Phil's success goes to Bengal Bout year group."
which appealed to him. "I like the director 
Dominic J. ( N )idea of getting in condition by The Notre Dame basketball
myself," he says. "When I was out Seniors on the team who have been for baseball, everyone went team. which will leave South Bend a part of all of Phelps' four seasons l<'riday morning for their first here at Notre Dame; the 6-20, 18­
through an organized conditioning round game with Kansas in the 
12, 26-3, and now the 18-8. weren't even sure they were going NCAA Tournament, will be No team in Notre Dame historyprogram. and many of the guys honored at a pep rally on Thursday
to make the team. No one gets out has won more than the first two 
night. Featured speakers for the games of the N.C.A.A. tour­from the Bengal Bout roster, 
consequently. each guy can go •event will be Co-C'lptains Dwight nament. With the support of the Clay and Peter Croi.ty, Blue Team Irish fans at Thursday night's
through his own training ritual 
with a definite purpose in mind­Captain Tommy Varga, and Head rally, the -74-'75 squad will try to doing well in the ring." better that mark. The rally is at
C'oach Digger Phelps. The rally will be the last opportunity for the 8:45 in Stepan Center.
Harbert did well enough in the Class of 1975 go honor the three1974 Bouts to merit the championship trophy in the 150 pound division. "It was the first 
Sailors host Regatta
time I had ever boxed in my life. I was pretty green, and I fought The Notre Dame Sailing Team Notre Dame has placed third and more on instinct than anything opens it spring semester of racing first. With the fine group of first else. This year I've been working this weekend on St. Joseph's Lake vear members the club has this 
more on technique, like mixing up with the Notre Dame Icebreaker year, another good performance is 
my foot movement so that I'm not Regatta. This is a special novice t•xpected. Spectators are always going in one direction. I've regatta open to first year welcomed and invited to come to also been working on my coun­eollegiate sailors. This is the only St. Joseph's Lake this weekend. terattack. The added year of regatta of this type in the Midwest The racing will start at ap­experience will also give me a and serves as an excellent in­proximately 9:30 both days. better idea of what to expect." troduction to competitive sailing. 
Phil's best punch is a straight Batton practicing
This year's regatta should be right, a weapon he used to floor all competitive with such colleges as Dave Batton resumed practicing three of his opponents in last year's 
Iowa, Michigan, Wisconsin, Ohio with the rest of the Irish basketball tournament. "The right isn't State, Indiana, and Marquette team yesterday after being treated worth much, though, unless I have invited to participate. The first for a thigh injury. The freshman 
a good left jab to set it up. So I've year members of the Sailing Club forward spent some time in the been working out in the practice have been practicing since the lake university infirmary, but will 
ring with some of the experienced thawed so they can maintain the make the trip to Oral Roberts for fighters to try and improve on this IN TONIGHT'S Bengal finals Phil Harbert (right) will be after his second team's tradition against this tough Notre Dame's first round NCAA aspect." trophy. cort~petition. In the past two years, , tournament game with Kansas. 
