
---~----------------------------------~ 

SLC urged to follow-up COUL proposals 

Diane Merton presenting a "test of the viability and necessity of the SLC in the eyes of the students and trustees." Failing that test might spell death for the SLC. (Photo by Paul Clevenger) 
HpcP1ans
•
lnsurance 
h)' 1\hu·tha Fanning 
Staff Ht•portl"r 

The Hall President's Council will 
be sponsoring an Insurance 
.St•llllllar for interested students 
this year. Andy Huff, a 1973 Notre 
Ilame graduatecurrentlyemployed 
at l'rudl'ntial Life Insurance, 
spoke on the subject last night at 
the mt>eting in Dillon Hall. 
Huff Pxplained that he and his 
associate, .John Fitzsimmons, 
would like to provide a service to 
the Notre Dame students. "We 
would like to make ourselves 
available to students in order to 
share our experience and 
knowlt>dgP about insurance," Huff 
noted~ 
liP mentioned that the college 
markt>t is the "biggest thing 
going." 
"Insurance companies will be 
approaching you soon, if not 
already," he continued. "I feel 
that we l'an be of service by at 
least preparing students as for 
what's going to be coming at 
them." 
l<'itzsommons, a 1974 Notre 
Dam!.' graduate related some of his 
t•xperil'nces senior year with in­
surance agencies. "When I was a 
St•nior I was hounded by people 
from Insurance companies. It's 
basically a high pressure type of 
situation and it's very hard to say 
no when you really don't know all 
the facts. If we can give you a little 
mor(;' Pxpertise on the subject then 
we've accomplished our purpose." 
I luff outlines his ideas on how the 
service could be set up. He 
suggested going to each hall on a 
sectional basis and having sessions 
Byrne, chairman,

t0 sponsorsuggested a "remodelin~ of s~c 
method along COUL hnes" m
sem•n

l ar 

for any interested students. The session would consist of an in­troduction to topics and then a question and answer period. 
A list of possible topics that the seminars could cover were distributed to the HPC members. These included: Insurance history, functions in society, types of life insurance, policy provisions, types of companies, college market and conclusions. 
Elton .Johnson, HPC Chairman, requested each president ot find out approximately how many of students would be interested in such a program. "Based on this amount we can set up a schedule for the seminars in the different halls." 
A representative from NO InPIHG. Fred Kunzinger, also spoke at the meeting. "lnPIRG is trying to introduce a recycling program for alunimun cans and paper. The group is in need of hall co-ordinators for the project." Kunzinger requested the HPC members to let the people in their halls know about the project and the need for volunteers. 
Jackie Stevens, a member of the Blue-Line club an organization set up to support the hockey team, also appeared at the meeting. Stevens asked the presidents to seek volunteers in their halls who would be willing to make or put up posters letting students know that the hockey season is almost here. 
The council discussed the homecoming decoration contest held last weekend. Generally, it was felt that the final judgement 
(continued on page 3) 


Andy Huff talks informally to two HPC members about a seminar on what to look for and what to watch out for when buying insurance. Huff feels that such a seminar would prove invaluable.( Photo by Chris Smith) 
by Mary Mungovon Staff Reporter 

The Student Life Council was challenged yesterday by COUL memben.Diana Merten to be "the · perman@nt body responsible for following up the recommendations made by the Committee on Un­
dergraduate Life." 
A list of COUL recommendations 

including 1) coed hoousing, 2) 
neutral space for informal 
recreation, 3 l educational 
programs and courses in residence 
halls, and 4) use of Campus View 
Apartments as a testing ground for 
programs, were referred to the 
SLC for "further research, study 
and implementation." 
Diana Merten, who presented a 

follow-up of the COUL report to the 
Board of Trustees, addressed the 
SLC, "Whether the SLC can take 
directed action on these recom­
mf.'ndations will be the test of the 
viability and. necessity of the SLC 
in the eyes of students and 
trustees.'' 
Ed SLC 

which SLC committees would "define problems, make recom­mendati~ns, and ;ubm,it reports at the end of the year to Trustees" as COUL did. 
Parietals Unchangt>d 
"Father Hesburgh has failed as yet to respond to the parietal recommendations the SLC sent him on June 2, 1975," related John DePietro, chairman of SLC Planning and Policy Committee. Based on a three-sem«;ster study of parietals, the SLC recommended last spring that 1) parietal hours begin at 11 a.m. instead of 12 a.m and 2) parietal violations be handled at the hall level by the rector and hall judicial board. The SLC voted to send another 
letter  to  Fr.  Hesburgh  urging  
response.  
John  Reid,  Chairman  of  the  

Campus Life Committee, outlined the areas the SLC will focus on: 
1 l the question of neutral space and coed dorms 
2) Walsh proposal for improved hall life 
3) problems in University village 
4l clubs, sports and women's athletics 
5) student advisory groups to work with Placement Bureau, Health services <Infi and Psychological Services) and Campus Ministry. 
.. It's also our job to respond to problems as they surface," Reid stated. 
Acting on nominations made by Sister Jean Lenz, chairman of the Hules Committee, the SLC ap­pointed 15 of the 18-member University Disciplinary Board. 
The SLC appoints 6 students, 6 faculty and 6 administration members to serve on the panel. When a student is charged with a violation of university rules he has the choice of either 1) a hearing with James Hoerner, Dean of Students or 2 l a hearing hy a 6­member judicial board <three students and three faculty or administration members) picked form the Ill-member panel by the SLC chairman. 
Appointment of the remaining three members and the ap­pointment of the Board of Appeals will take place at he next meeting. 
The Hules and Hegulations Committee also outlined plans for establishing "drinking regulations to improve hall social life," Sr. Lenz said. ''We've been gathering 
(continued on page 7) 

The Queen of Hearts put it quite well: You have to forced to study more, wind up with less free time run as fast as you can just to stay where you are. and are showing the effects. All agree, an earlier This scene is typical of the Memorial Library break would have been nice. almost every night. Cut short on time, students are (Photo by Paul Clevenger) 

Academic pressures 1nount 
by Valerie M. Zurblis Senior Staff Reporter 
Most students and faculty are feeling the pressures of academia and would like to see and October break despite a pre-Labor Day start ac­cording to a spot survey on campus. 
History Professor Leon Bernard commented, ''Last year I was opposed to an early start, but now my opinion is completely reversed. I would welcome a break now despite an early start." 
Fr. Terry Lally, assistant vice-president of Student Affairs and teaching a theology course this semester, said he has now seen many students under pressure and who need a break. "USC weekend was the only vacation, and afterwards you are more tired than if you had took a regular vacation," he stated. He also added, "I'd like to take a vacation myself right now." 
"I'd give my left arm for a vacation right now" said junior mathematics major Ann Timm. "I've seen so many studious people just skipping classes and forgoing homework." 
Junior Marketing major Peggy O'Rourke said, "At this point, I'm going nuts!" She said that she was ready to return before Labor Day this year and that most of the students returned early. "After midterms, you're not ready to start taking tests over again," she added. 
Last year students were polled and the majority favored a post-Labor Day start because it would cut into the summer earnings. Also, additional expense was involved in leaving campus for the week the University was closed in October. 
Father James Burtchaell, University provost, was in favor of the pre-Labor Day start because he noted the semester without a break was "very fatiguing and relentless" and he advocated the early start to fit in a midsemester break. 

However, last year the Academic Council passed a post-Labor Day start but only included afour-day break in November. "We were led to believe that the Thanksgiving break would be an 'extended' break," stated last year's Student Body President Pat McLaughlin in response to the calendar. 
Burtchaell argued that the calendar must fit five factors limiting the flexibility of the fall semester. The calendar must allow 72 class days, the semester must culminate before Christmas and allow suf­ficient travel time for students and must work in a five-day week with no Saturday classes. Also, the calendar should be held in common with St. Mary's College and should include a semester break. 
Saint Mary's College Prisident Dr. John Duggan did cancel all classes on Monday, October 27 after he realized how long and strenuous the fall semester was. He was unavailable for comment. 
In reply to adverse criticism that a pre-Labor Day start would cut into summer earnings, Burtchaell said, "I feel the calendar will justify itself." 
Junior Mary Ellen Keenan and Sister Madonna Kolbenschlag discussed changing the calendar. Keenan objected to an early start but said an option would be to have a shortened Christmas break. 
Kolbenschlag said a week off in October is too long and she would opt for a short break in October after midterms. 
"My students seem more pressured, and in one class I even adjusted my assignments because the students were pressured," she said. She is totally opposed to a pre-Labor Day start. 
Accounting professor John Beverly agreed with having two breaks, but complained that they sometimes fall to close together in the semester. 
(continued on page 5) 


..~~------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, October 29, 1975
2 the observer 
warld briefs 
BOSTON <AP) -The president of the Massachusetts Senate said Tuesday his state is close to bankruptcy. He said he can't muster the votes to increase taxes and avoid fiscal disaster. 
Senate President Kevin B. Harrington said the state will run out of money by next April. "I believe right n~w tha~ we are g_oing to go bankrupt and we are going to have chaos, 'Harrmgton sa1d. 
GRANITE, Okla. <AP) -Nine inmates at Granite Reformatory freed their last two hostages Tuesday and walked out of the kitchen where they had been holed up for 251h hours, authorities s~id. 
The rebellious inmates surrendered after 40 mmutes of negotiations with three state officials. The inmates, armed with knives, had taken one guard and two cooks hostage Tuesday afternoon. 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. <AP) -A federal judge reaffirmed 
Tuesday his order that President Ford give a videotape statement in the trial of Lynette "Squeaky" Fromme. Administation officials said the statement would be given later this week. 
PARIS <APl -Georges Carpentier, who lost a fourth-round knockout to Jack Dempsey in boxing's first multmillion-dollar gate, died Monday after a heart attack. He was 81. 
A national hero who shared the hearts of Frenchmen along with his friend and contemporary Maurice Chevalier, Carpentier was at his daughter's home after walking his dog when he complained of feeling ill. 

an campus taday 
9 am·-ccum panel discussion, "key issues of 1976" by david cohen, president, common cause; william lucy, intnl. secretary-treasurer, american d. of state; dr. grace olivarez, dir. of planning for state of new mexico. ace arena 
3:25 pm --,lecture, "process optimization & experimentation" by dr. william e. biles, m.d. room 269, chem eng. bldg. 
3:30 pm -· humanistic work lecture series, "worker alienation: 
an historical perspective" by dr. john w. houck, m.d. hayes-healy center aud. 
4:30 pm --colloquium, "classification problem for finite simple groups" by prof. michael aschbacher, calif. institute of tech. room 226, computing center 
6:30pm--1 meeting, sailing club rm. 204 engineering bldg. 
7:30pm --lecture, "benjamin franklin and the protestant ethic" by karl weintraub, dean, division of humanities, univ. of chicago carroll hall 
7:30 pm -· folk dancing, free instruction Iafortune ballroom 
8 pm & film, "the king of hearts" tickets $1, engineering aud. 
10 pm -­

8:15 
pm -· concert, chamber music for woodwinds library aud. 

8:15 
pm ·-ccum conference, "the potential for coalition building in the church's bicentennial program" by cardinal john dearden, archbishop of detroit & chairman, national conference of catholic bishops' committee for the bicentennial. ace arena 


10 pm .. nazz, first and second jazz combo's basement Iafortune 
exhibit, photographs by williston dye architecture bldg. lobby october 27 -november 9 
r 

Social Commissions plan Halloween dance Friday 
By Cathy Nolan Staff Reporter 

The St. Ed's and Lyons hall social commissions are sponsoring a Halloween dance this Friday night from 9 pm -1 am in Stepan center. 
The dance, which is being held in conjunction with the Student Union Social Commission, is open to the entire Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community. 
Students are encouraged to wear I costumes and prizes will be I awarded to the best-dressed 
1 

person. Judging will be done by 
dance chairpersons Steve 
Hoesterey and Caren Conaway. 
However, it is not mandatory that 
students wear costumes to attend. 
Tickets will be sold at the door for seventy-five cents. This is not
• 
designed to be a money-making
D 
project for either of the halls. "All students are encouraged to at­tend," Hoesterey \ and Conaway commented. "The dance is being given as a social event for the students to celebrate the 
'J 
Halloween festivities." 

Stepan Center will be decorated in Halloween fashion with corn stalks and pumpkin included among the decorations. Music will be provided by "Stratus," a campus group composed of former members of such bands as "Wind" and ''Talisman.'' Refreshments will include cokes and popcorn. 




Wedding bell blues 
ELGIN, Ill. <AP) -William -At the reception the cake lookisg,_ filrward te becoming a and Susan Backers' first mar­slid apart and fell on the floor. grandmolher. But she said, '"I riage ceremony was so botched Susan's mother, Mrs. Warren hope Susan doesn't have babies up they decided to tie the knot Roderick of Carpentersville, is like she has weddings." again, but it didn't go off too smoothly the second time, ei­ther. 
MAC'S RECORD RPCK
In a private ceremony over the weekend, the bridegroom's 
$1 off any
mother was unable to attend. 
She was injured in a fall down stairs. A bridesmaid attended 1 although she had been bed­ridden with pneumonia. The bride, expecting a child...__May, came down with influenza 'after the ceremony. 
But the photographer was there and got pictures of the ceremony in the church. One of the things that happened in the Backers' first wedding July 26 was that the photographer ac­cidently exposed his film and ruined the pictures. 
Other happenings then: 
-The best man dropped out after an argument with the groom and a new one had to be named. 
-The ring-bearers' parents, also after a dispute, dropped out and had to be replaced. 
-The minister injured his neck in an auto accident and was barely able to perform the ceremony. 
-The organist went on vaca­tion and a new one had to be found at the last minute. 
-The florist delivered flow­ers to the wrong address and half of them did not arrive at the church until two hours after the ceremony. 
-One of the bridemaids sneezed throughout the ceremo­ny. She was allergic to the baby breath flowers in her cor­sage. 
Group research grants available 
Grants up to twenty thousand dollars are available from the Nat­ional Science Foundation under their "Student-Originated Studies" program. Groups of from 5 to 12 students in the social sciences may be eligible to undertake scientific studies having immediate social or environmental use. 
Projects funded must be in­dependently motivated by students, have as their concern the collection of scientific data for some local user, and must pose yet unanswered questions of a scientific or technological nature. Deadline for proposals is Nov. 10, 1975. 
For further information contact Tony Murphy, coordinator of "Student-Originated Studies" for the Arts and Letters Office of Research and Sponsored Programs. Phone 7213. 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during thEt summer session, except during exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre 
D"ame and St M;lry·s College.. 
Subscriptions may "be purchased tor 10 dollars per semester ( 18 dollars per year l from The Ob· server. Box Q. Notre Dame, In diana, 46556. Second. Class postage paid. Notre Dame. IN ~6556. 


EACH 

BOY'S ALBUM 
A full service record store 
288. 1178 

Next to River Park Theater 

r--HALLOWEEN~DANCE--t 
t t : t 
t 
t 
, 
!' ' 
t 
t 

L----------------~ 



CinemalllJI 
''KING OF HEARTS'' 
STARRING: ALAN BATES & GENEVIEVE BUJOLD 
I 

TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
. OCT. 28 & 29 8 p.m. 10 p.m. 
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM 


Acareer in law­
WilhOUIIBW SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the seven courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 950 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 80 cities. 
If you are a student of high academic standing 
and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assis­
tant, we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER12 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
FRIDAY OCTOBER 31 ! 
9 PM -1 AM ' STEPAN CENTER :
* 
STRATUS t -a super band to dance to t

* 
$. 75 admission t

* 
Costumes optional, but trophy t for Best Costume t

* 
Sponsored by St. Ed's, Lyons, , ND Social Commission ' 

* 
Campus Wide f -SMC GIRLS, TOO t 


--------------------~~--~ ---~ 
--~ --~~---­
Wednesday, October 2t , 1975 

the observer 
3 

$10,000 gilt 
Bank awards recreational funds to SMC 
By Marjorie lrr Starr Reporter 

St. Mary's College has been awarded a gift of $10,000 from the American National Bank and Trust Co. of South Bend. 
The funds will go toward the construction of a new sports and recreational facility for the College, said Stevie Wernig, assist­ant to the vice president of student affairs. Building of thefacilityhas been necessitated by the skyrocketing interest in sports at St. Mary's. 
Until last fall, sports had been almost non-existent at St. Mary's, according to Wernig. In the past year, though, student interest in sports has doubled the enrollment in physical education courses and put two additional sports on the varsity level. 
W(•rnig, who joined Student Aff­airs in the fall of 1974, has worked to build up the sports program. The school now has 11 varsity teams and 15 intramural teams. 
"Opening up the sports program hPre was like opening up a pan­dora's box. There are a lot of girls who wt•re athletes in high school and want to continue to partcipate in sports,"said Wernig. 
By Lonnie Luna Staff Heporter 

Lack of topics and the absence of Fr. Jlesburgh have delayed the academic Council meetings for the first semester, according to Mike Gassman. 
·'Hight now, the three things on the agenda are the establishment of the executive committee, a committee to review the provost and a committee to review proposals by the faculty senate on faculty members and promotions," Gassman explained. 
The executive committee, once selected, will draw up the agenda he added. 
Gassman anticipates the first meetingto be within the second or thirdweekof November. He does not see the delay as hindering because ''we have a little more work to do." 
Gassman wants to begin discussions on the academic calendar this semester but an­ticipates the subject arising next semester. 
''We won't touch the calendar 

issue until we're ready. We have to 
approach the calendar issue dif­
1continued from page I) 
was not based on the criteria originally presented to HPC when the contest was announced. A suggestion was made for the HPC to formulate a policy for material presentation by organizations to the council to avoid such confusion again. The policy will be for­mulated and submitted for ap­proval next meeting. 
Bob Quakenbush reported on the success of the United Way Cam­paign. He announced the five leading halls in collection. St. Edward led in contributions per student averaging $1.16, a total of $156. li7; Breen-Phillips had 77.5 cents per student, a total of $165.08; Keenan averaged 66.9 cents per student, totaling $201.47; Holy Cross averaged 56.4 cents per student, totaling $97.67 and Morrissey averaged 55.7 cents per student, a total of $172.25. 
Quakenbush commended St. Ed's on their success and in being the only dorm to exceed a dollar average per student. 
The-Rockne Trophy committee nwmbers were announced by 
"The interest is definitely here. We had a great turnout on sports night. People keep coming up with more sports they're interested in on both varsity and intramural levels," she contnued. 
Spm·ts now budgeted 

Wernig explained the basic pre-requisite for starting a team. "Interest is the basic factor in starting a team and in elevating it to the varsity level. Last year was the first time sports were budgeted. The intramural program is now budgeted also," she said. 
"To make it to the varsity level, the team goes through a one-year trial. If the students show the in­terest, I submit a budget request to Dr. Mary Alice Cannon (vice president for student affairs). She then brings it before the College Budget Committee. If the request passes, that sport is then included in allocations for the following school year," explained Wernig. 
"Team budgets include uniforms, equipment, gas mileage, and meal reimbursement for away events. In addition to that is the 




Hesburgh, lack of topics· delay Academic Council :meetings 
ferently than the three previous hours, utilizing school days as years. We have written to 250 study days before finals, doing schools to get ideas. The main away with tests before finals and concentration is on this issue," finding ways of eliminating the rxplained Gassman. pressure of students' grades being decided by the last test followed by 
Joe Fiorella, Business College 

a final.
representative, said that the student segment of the Council is "What we really need is student researching in the areas of doing opinion. We're open for away with extra cost for more suggestions," Fiorella said. 
Strict measures proposed for handgun legislation 
WASHINGTON <AP) -Rep. Peter W. Rodino Jr., D-N.J., chairman of the House .Judiciary Committee, proposed tough measures Tuesday for registering and licensing every handgun and handgun owner in America. 
lie also called for banning so-called Saturday night specials, cheaply made, easily con­cealable weapons. In the Sen­ate, Sen. Birch Bayh, D-Ind., also urged this type of legisla­lion. 
Rodino said he wanted to see passed by this Congress a bill 

HPC announces results of a\\~,ocr,l .~.lfDIN& CQ 
United Way fund raising 
Johnson. They are: William Burke, Assistant Provost; Fr. Hobert Griffin, University Chaplain; and James Roemer, Dean of Students. An an­nouncement of the winner of September's award will be for­thcoming this week. 
operated by coach Ron Diorio. The swim team practices in the Regina South pool, though it is not regulation size. 
Discussing the athletic building, Wernig said, "I won't know what will be included in the new building until December. It all depends upon how much money we'll have to work with. The Building Gom­mittee of the Board of Regents decided over the weekend to begin contacting architects for proposals. We'd like to break ground this spring." 
At this point, funding will det­ermine all aspects of the athletic building. Wernig said, "Nothing has been said on how much we 


rental of practice gyms," said W­
rnig. 
Wernig emphasized that the college is just as interested as the students are and that is why they are working so hard for the new building. 
"The college is spending a lot of money on the sports program. We've made a commitment to it by the fact that we are supporting the teams," she said. 
''But we're really not doing it right without a building of our own,"Wernig stated. 
Forced off campus 

Wernig said the teams are doing well with the on-campus practice areas they do have now but they are forced to practice more off campus. 
The basketball and volleyball teams practice in the Moreau Seminary gym. Basketball also uses Logan Center one night per week in exchange for assistance with their recreation program for the retarded. 
The gymnastics team practices in Mishawaka at the House of Gymnastics, which is owned and 
that would require every hand­gun owner in America to obtain federal licenses that would identify owners by name, pho­tograph, fingerprint and social security number. 
To obtain the identification, an individual would have to swear he was over 21 and not a convicted felon, not mentally incompetent or a drug addict or alcoholic, among other things. His statements would be sub­jected to verification by the FBI.
*J ~* 
~~1)(\~ \H£DJJir-~ 
The Outpost invite you to a free Cross Country SKIING Clinic : Movie and Discussion on the sport. Thursday 
October 30 7: 


RING IN THE LIBERTY 
AT JORDAN FORD 
must have before the ground­breaking." 
Gym first priority 

"We'd like to put in an olympic­size pool, but the gym takes first priority. I really have no idea of building costs, so I can't put any solid figures on the final cost of the building," she stated. 
"The . students are conducting fund c.lrives and more people are becoming aware of the need," said Wernig. "St. Mary's doesn't like to ask parents for more money but when things get started, I think more parents will become in­terested," she continued. 

~ Hypertension (high blood pressure) affects 23 million Americaln. It is an insidious disease often without causing any symptoms & for which there is no known cure. It silently strains the cardiovascular system, increaseing the deposition of tat, overtaxing the heart, and damaging the kidneys. Early detection and treatment can increase lifespan by decades. Have your blood pressure checked regularly. 
TillS WEEK'S GOOD VALUE !TYLENOL tablets SS cents for 100 
MAR-MAIN PHARMACY 
426 N. MICHIGAN (NEXT TO McDONALD'S) 
234 318A 





'Tearafter year.Iscmcstcr'aftcr semester, the CollcgcMastcr from Fidelity Union Ijtc has lx~n the most accepted, most popular plan on camrmses all o\'erAmerica. 
Find out why. 
Call the Fidelity lJnion Coll(.•gcMaster .Field Associate 
m your area: 
1 005 E. LaSalle South Bend. Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 
"~ 

( ( )llc~cMastcr
.._ 
Diane Long Agent 

the observer Wednesday, October 29, 1975 


~~The Observer 
·~ ~ on independent student newspaper Foundt'd Novfm!H'r 3, 1966 
T~>rry K~>~>n~>y Ed•tor-m-ch•~>f Tom Modglin Bus1ness Manag~>r Tom Whelan Advertis1ng Manager 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

•\I 1-iuttwrford. Manngmg Editor. Jim Eder. Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; 
k··n Gtro11ard_. Ntws Edt tor; Bob Mader. Campus Editor. Mary Janca. St. Mary's Editor; Ken l1r<~dford. Copy Editor. Bill Brink. Sports Eoitor; Tom O'Neil, FPatures Editor. 
Chris Smith, Phof..> Editor 

N•-• l~l IllS 8u\On•" 18_:_)_:_14_:_1.;,.1______
_j 

Wednesday, October 29, 1975 \ 

P. 0. Box Q 
barbs turned down. Nothing was 
Society of Ujamma tried to raisedone. 
money. Did they receive money

Ryan 

We at the Village should be 
because they are a minority? And 

thankful for having such economi­
so there would be no flack?" 

cal housing, but we will not remain 

Should 

silent. nor will we move. The members of the Society of Something must be done about the Ujamma excuse the ignorance of fence. I would also hope that if the L.I.F.E. committee because

Reconsider 
Brother Ryan did make the we haven't been enthusiastic about statement that the Observer at­the amounts allocated to Dt>ar Editor: tributed to him, that he would Ujamma by Student Government 
There must have been a reconsider such a policy. in recent years, either. We have misquoted statement in your Tom Valenti complained vehemently on several October 23 article about University occasions but we have never 
Village. Surely Brother Keirnan deliberately denigrated any other Hyan could not have said in answer University organization in an

Ujamma

to criticisms about the Village attempt to gain sympathy. There that. "If they don't like it they can have been numerous times the move downtQwn ". At a Christian Society could have cried racism or

Insulted

University a member of the CSC as it was put caused a lot of would certainly not be so closed "flack," but is that intelligent? minded and uncharitable as to 
by L.I.F.E.
make such a statement. Un­As a subset of a People who have doubtedly there is a mistake. experienced and continue to ex-As Brother Ryan maintains, the Dear Editor: ' perience discrimination and $80 per month rent is more than alienation in their sojourn in this
On October 21, 1975, the Notre 
reasonable. but that doesn't mean nation,the members of the Society 
Dame-St. Mary's Students for 
that residents can not complain have learned to utilize internally
L.I.F.E. submitted a statement to 
about glaring deficiencies in the The Observer stating their generated resources and to seek buildings and its facilities. external funding only when
displeasure with the present
For example. why does the fence necessary. On several occasions
allocation policy of the Student 
that surrounds the Village when more money was needed
Government. It was said that for 
backyard remain open-ended, than we could produce, we have
the third consecutive year, Student 
leaving sharp barbs exposed? In asked other organizations to co­
Government had denied funds for 
l\lay a child could have been sponsor or even take up the entire 
their organization. In that same 
seriously injured when he was cost of events.
statement, L.I.F.E. made a 
impaled by and hung up on the malicious attack on the Society of To prover L.I.F.E. wrong, it isfence. Luckily he only required Ujamma stating, and we quote, necessary to view the activities of stitches to close the wound, but had "We cannot remember when the Ujamma in retrospect to bringwomen in the Village not been, 


their committee up to the date on some of the revenue producing events which they and other members of the University have neglected to credit or patronize as Society of Ujamma functions. Since L.I.F.E., in their statement felt it necessary to dr<!W attentio~ to Ujamma, we will only discuss those events which coincide with their short existence. 
In 1973, the Society of Ujamma was allocated $1500 from Student Government. That year, we sponsored the Black Cultural Arts Festival, a week long series of activites which included speakers, two concerts, art displays and theater group performances. Also, in conjunction with Indiana University of South Bend, the Society co-sponsored the first "Cabaret Ball" in the South Bend community. 
On Campus, that year, the Society sponsored three dances at Stepan Center. In 1974, the budget was cut to $1000. That year the Society sponsored three dances, one surrounding the Freshman Orientation. There was also the Black Students' Picnic, which students were charged to offset costs incurred, and the dance performance given by the Katherine Dunham Dance Troop. In 1975, the Society of Ujamma was once again allocated $1000. We have already set up plans for concerts, films and dances to be held during this academic year. 
The attempt by the L.I.F.E. committee to put the Society of Ujamma on the spot we feel was unfair, unjustified and childish. An organization whose purpose is as dedicated to humanity as their's should refrain in making such uncharacteristic moves. The members of the Society of Ujamma were insulted by L.I.F.E.'s letter to The Observer and demand an apology, admitting to their negligence in their fact finding policy. 
Lionel J. Phillips 
Spokesman for the 
Society of Ujamma 


Bad Taste 
Dear Editor 

Once again you have exhibited your supreme lack of judgement in printing Gregory Marshall's letter on Joe Corpora. You reserve the right to edit letters due to taste but fail to exercise that right. From the series on SMC Turkeys and NO Leprechauns to yesterday's letter on Corpora you have prosletyzed for bad taste; not discouraged it as your editorial disclaimers would tend to suggest. 
Admittedly in your Apologia for 
your seeming editorial caprice, 
you saw a value in printing letters 
with a lack of content if only for 
their humor. But in that October 7 
issue you also specified "4. Letters 
should at least avoid obscenity, 
visciousness, and personal at­
tacks." Although it may seem 
humorous to suggest Joe Corpora 
is seven centuries behind the time, 
the intellectual content of such a 
remark is minimal (even if the 
author was trying to infer a 
Thomistic influence in Corpora's 
philosophy, circa 1200). It was in 
short a cheap shot and such per­
sonal attacks have no place in the 
legitimate forums of idea ex­
changing. 

The editorial page editorship is 
close by, the child could have badly ripped his insides. Fortunately, no 
DOONESBURY

one has been hurt since, but it is 
only a matter of time. It's one thing to tell children not to climb a PAlJ, I CAN'TRGl/R£ 
YOU Ot/T! I MEAN, YOU

fence. it is another thing to keep 
KNOW MOM'tL CIJI.18
them from doing it. 
.! BACK-SHe ALIAIAYS

After the incident in May, 
: IXJ8S! 51-18 JUST IOUNNO,
Brother Ryan was asked to look 
o NE£05 TO /JC. 8Y SON •..

over the situation and to have the· 

E H£flS8J..f SOM&­

All letters to the editor should be sent to The Observer, Editorial Editor, Post Office Box Q or brought to the office of The Observer located on the top floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 
All 'letters are subject to editing for length and taste, and should be concise as possible. 
not a laissez-faire position. If it is we should dispense with the job and print everything that is sub­mitted. Otherwise, I would s~~~est upholding your respon­Sibility to the community. I am not calling for the office of Censor Deputatis, but you should start exercising discretion which heretofore has been eminently lacking. 
John Hannan 
Editot·'s Note: People who voluntarily take a position of prominence and controversy in the community must expect to draw more fire than the ordinary citizen. 
Even the Supreme Court would agree with this interpretation but if Mr. Hannan wishes to see the real cheap shots we may show him our dead letter file. 


Return The Stripper 
Dt>ai' Editot·: 
I would like to make a statement concerning the recent home football game losses. I would like to point out that the first home game was a notable success, the second and third were failures. The difference? The absence of the Notre Dame stripper at the end of the third quarter. Bring him back and bring back the winning way. 
(Name withheld by request> 


'Gutterball 

Award' 
Ut•a •· Editor: A very unique part of the N.D.­
ll.S.C. game are the signs that are made by the students. Most were very clever and original. There were some exceptions -to the juvenile delinquents who carried the sign "USC you s--k" goes tlie "Gutterball Award" of the year. 
I thought the huge USC line had big "behinds" but you were the biggest A--ES of the afternoon. 
I. H. llyban 
* The Observer 
Night Editor: Marti Hogan Assistant Night Editor: Chris Smith Layout Staff: Martha Fan­ning, Debbie Dahrling, TRS 
Day  Editor:  Marianne  
Schulte  
Copy Reader:  Gregg "G.B."  
Bangs  

Editorials: Val Zurblis Sports: Tom Kruczek, Bill Brink Typists: Joan Martel, Tom O'Neil. Neil Viii, Mel Celeste, Mary Anne Keefe Compugraphic: Hank Van Dyke Night Controller: Bob Steinmetz Ad Layour: Pat Russell, Mike Miller 
by Garry Trudeau 



~----~------~~------~---­
---~--... 

Wednesday, October 29, 1975 the observer 
5

Bicentenary Exhibition 
Victor Higgins show open at Art Gallery 
by Phil ('ackley Also in attendance were many The research revealed what 
Staff Ht>porter relatives of Higgins, who died in Conyers termed "one of the great 
1949. discoveries in American art." 
The paintings of Victor Higgins, The exhibit was originally Higgins, who painted in the South­an obscure but important conceived to encompass several west, near Taos, New Mexico bet-American artist, are being feat­different Hoosier artists, ac­1 ween 1915 and 1949, played an ured in an exhibition in the Art cording to Conyers. Higgins was important part in determining Gallery in O'Shaughnessy Hall included as one, primarily because some of the trends followed by from October 27 to December 21. the University owns four major American art. 
Fr. Richard Conyers, curator of works by the artist. the Art Gallery, said the exhibit However, as the staff did Founded Taos school has been in preparation 
research on Higgins, his im­
for two years, as part of the portance in American art was He was on~ of the founders of the Bicentenary Exhibition focusing brought to light. A gift of funds, Taos school of painting, and in­on Art in Indiana. Higgms was from John T. Higgins, the youngest fluenced some of the greathorn in Shelbyville, Indiana, in brother of the artist and a member Am~rican artists, including Sloan, 
1884. 
of the Notre Dame Law Advisory Davts, and Bellows. He was par­llt>sburgh at opt>ning 
Board, enabled more extensive ticularly influential in moving research to be done. painting outdoors into a natural setting from a studio, much as the
The exhibit began on Sunday Dr. Dean Porter, director of the Barbizon school of painters did for with a "gala opening" attended Gallery, went to Taos, New Mexic­the French Impressionists in thebv f<'r. Hesburgh, president of the o, where Higgins did the majority middle-1800's.
University and other members of of his work, and met many of the the Administrationand some of the people who knew and lived with The IndianapolisMuseum of Art 
members of the Board of Trustees. Higgins. became interested in the Art 

Judge enters innocent plea for Moore 
SAN FHANCISCO <AP> judge, repeatedly insisted no be returned to San Diego to 
Ovl'r strong defense objections, plea be entered until psy­complete her psychiatric tests. a federal judge entered an in­chiatric tests are completed to The Speedy Trial Act went nocent plea Monday for Sara determine whether Mrs. Moore into effect Sept. 29, seven days .Jane Moore on charges she is competent to stand trial. after the divorcee allegedly tried to kill President Ford and U.S. District Court Judge fired a shot at Ford outside a ordered her trial to start Dec Samuel Conti, citing require­San f<'rancisco hotel. The law 
15. nwnts of the 1974 Speedy Trial requires that for a person held Meanwhile, another woman Act. swept aside all objections. without bond a trial must begin 
accused of trying to kill Ford, He said the trial would begin as within 90 days after arrest. 
Lynette "Squeaky" Fromme, scheduled unless she were 
was to appear in federal court found mentally incompetent. 
in Sacramento. She has pleaded Conti later agreed to Hewitt's 
innocent to charges· of trying to request that Mrs. Moore, 45, be 
shoot Ford Sept. 5 near the Cal­allowed to attend a closed juve­
ifornia state Capitol. nile court custody hearing in 
The hearing concerns argu­San Francisco Thursday con­
ments on U.S. District Court cerning her 10-year-old son, 
.Judge Thomas Macbride's or­Frederick Aalberg. He is cur­
der that Ford give video-taped rl'ntly living in a foster home in 
testimony as a defense witness the Hay area with a friend of 
at Miss Fromme's trial. his mother's. 
In San Francisco, Chief Pub­Mrs. Moore, who told police 
lic l)pfender .James Hewitt, in a after her arrest she was wor­15-minute arraignment marked ried about being late to pick up by a sharp exchange with the her son from school, will then 
Seniors seek interviews 

at ND Placement Bureau 
by Mary Heht>r semester will have the best job St•nior Starr Heporter opportunities," he observed. Since the interviews began in the 
Seniors begin to line up at the 

first week of October, a few 
l'lacl'ml·nt Hureau about 6:00a.m. companies have cancelled their every Monday morning to secure visits, Willemin said. Unlike last job interviews for the following year, however, addditions of other wt•ek. according to Placement t·ompanies' interviews replaced 
Bureau Director Richard the cancellations, he added. 
Willemin. "As of right now, we have 
"The very first week of in­signed up as many companies to terviews we had line-ups outside visit ND as the same ttme last thl' office before we opened up," he year." Willemin stated. "But the 
said, noting that the lines grow number of jobs the interviews have longer as time goes on. "When I to fill is greatly reduced," he caml' to work Monday morning at said. ll:OO there was a line of about 125 11e described the job oppor ­
students," he stated. tunities for accountants and 
Although there is considerable engineers as "still strong". com petition for interviews, "However, jobs in other fields , Willemin feels that lining up before such as Arts and Letters, are thl' office opens in the morning is greatly reduced--in some cases unnecessary. This is because on they have fallen by as much as 50 Mondays the Placement Bureau per cent compared to the number limits the number of interviews to • of jobs available as last year," he two per person, which means not said. all the companies' visits will be According to the 1975 NO taken before other students can Placement Manual, the interviews sign up for them. The rest of the scheduled for this year include 177 week students are allowed to sign companies wanting engineers, 157 up for as many interviews as they tor business maiors, 63 for arts want. he observed. and letters graduates and 62 for 
"The number of students able to science majors. obtain interviews depends on the number of interviews the employer 
STANFORD & FARLEY HALLS 
decides to send," Willemin stated. 
PRESENT 
Students setting up interviews this Sl'mester have a better chance 
PUMPKIN CARVING CONTEST 
of getting jobs than those who wait 
until spring, he noted. Many 
Judging Tonight !! 
companies concelled their in­
Festivities start at 10 PM
terviews second semester of last 
year, he said, because of the in­
in front Hagger Hall 
flationary economy and because 
DOUGHNUTS AND CIDER
many had filled their hiring from 
first semester interviews, he said. 
AVAILABLE (cheap!) 
"If the economic condition does not improve significantly, the 
-MANY PRIZES 
students with interviews this 
Gallery's discoveries and helped few of Higgins at work. The paint· fund the exhibit, the expense of ings span all four of the artists which was very high. Conyers said periods, his first and second Taos it cost more than $400,000 just t period, the 1930's and the 1940's. ship and insure the 28 paintings The guide to the exhibition, which loaned from Taos. There are over is titled "Victor Higgins: An In­70 paintings in the exhibit on Joan diana-born Artist Working in Ta· from a number of collections and os," describes Higgins' work as museums. full of "the brilliant colors of his 
There has been so much ent­Taos environment." It also states thusiasmgenerated over the exhibit that the artist "was interested in that one of the probable by­painting for the sake of painting." products of it will be a major book The guide closes by statfng that on Higgins, including color plates Higgins' work in the Southwest of his paintings, according to "was a life-long involvement. Art Conyers. in the Southwest may be the style 
most indigenous to America. AsExhibit will go on tour such, no chapter should be written 
without a close examination of the 
The Indianapolis Museum of art contribution made to American 
will have the exhibit after it leaves Art by Victor Higgins." 
NotreDame.It will then move on, The Higgins exhibit is being 
hopefully to the Whitney Museum shown in the West Gallery. In the 
in New York, and to several East Galleries "Everett McNear: 
museums in the Southwest and the Al"tist, Designer, and Collector" is 
West coast. currently being shown. It will be on 
Included in the exhibit are oil exhibit until November 9th. 
paintings, watercolors and phot­"Young American 
ographs of Higgins, his fellow Photographers" will be on exhibit 
members oftheTaos school, and a beginning on November 16 
"I get my rides to 
D.C. through the Observer classifieds!" 
THE WANT ADS GET RESULTS ­
10,000 people in the N.D. community reached daily. 
~~~ IIL'ttiWWPI 
~~ ~ ,I • \ ~ ~ 

~~~H~I 




B~~~KS' toUNCfRAIKEHSli\ll ~ 
Fr· at 7 30 9 35 PM 

• I • ' •I · I I .. ,, 
--~--~ -~ ----·------. ~~ 
MIDNITE SHOW EVERY FRI & SATREDUCED 
_______ ~ ··-______ --~-PRICE! 
------~----~~:---~------------~-------~---­
..__. ~ ~ 
• '!.-• • • • • ~. _-...-~-·_ •. ··-. _.. t ... 
Wednesday , October 29, 1975
the observer
6 

Sadat requests peace conference 
WASHINGTON (AP) Egypt has decided to ask the United States and the Soviet Union for a resumption of the Geneva peace conference, it was learned Tuesday as Egyp­tian President Anwar Sadat held another round of talks with President Ford. 
Diplomatic sources said it would take about two months to get the Middle East conference going if all sides approved. In the meantime, Sadat expects the administration to make one more effort through Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger for an Israeli withdrawal on the Svrian front. 
·It was also learned that the administration has decided to ask Congress for $750 million in economic aid for Egypt. An ad­ditional $98.1 million for Egypt in farm commodities, under the Food for Peace Program, was announced by the Agriculture Department. 
At a White House meeting, Sadat urged Ford to relax the administration's resistance to Palestine Liberation Organ­ization participation in Geneva. 
"I urge a dialogue between the United States and the Pale­stinians," Sadat told reporters later, "because the United States is the main party in this game." 
He said the "peace process will take a long time because of Israeli arrogance and because they want to impose their term on the Arabs." 
Lighting his pipe in a session at Blair House, Sadat paused and then said, "This is not ac­ceptable from our side." 
He stressed the need for a 
U.S. initiative on the Palestin­ian issue. 
"If we are not going to achieve any global solution for this problem 'it will not be reached without the Palestin­ians." 
Ford had said at a White House dinner Monday night that "there can be no peace un­til the legitimate interests of all peoples in the Middle East are taken fairly into account." The administration still opposes a seat for the PLO until it ac­cepts Israel's existence. 

Sadat urged Ford to strike "a deal" with the Palestinians and start a "dialogue" with them, newsmen were told. 
Specifically, according to the Egyptian sources, Ford was urged to deal with Yasir Ara­rat, head of the PLO, which the Arab nations last year granted sole authority to represent the Palestinian people. 
The Geneva conference has been dormant while Kissinger arranged disengagement on the Sinai and Golan Heights. Israel has said it will never sit down with an organization which it says has sent terrorists into the Jewish state to murder civil­ians. 
The decision to give Egypt $750 million in economic help more than doubles the current $300 million aid figure. At the same time, Sadat is seeking military commitments, perhaps up to $5 billion worth over 10 years. 
White House press secretary Ron Nessen said the two presi­dents discussed both forms of aid. 
Nessen said Ford said deeply regrets New York mayor Abra­ham Hearne's refusal to wel­come Sadat to the city on Wednesday. Beame based his snub on Egyptian support for a 
U.N. resolution to condemn Zi­onism as racism. 

SHOP AT THESE FINE STORES AT 
TOWN & COUNTRY CENTER 
t~ 
~rriffi~ ~~~fu'U
-~-~-c·.~­

§ I:' ~:.' ·. ·, . 
. ··--~~-:
~-,
· •· · 
town & country : ­shopping center . . ' · 
CARDS BOOKS MAGAZINES ART SUPPLIES 
MACRAME BEADS
JUTE-WAXED LINEN NOVELTIES 
2340 miracle lane 
. . 
mishawaka, and1ana 46544 219 I 256-0111 

-COUPON­

THIS COUPON WORT 
$4.00 OFF ON ALL JEANS 
TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER STORE 
I( 
OFFER EXPIRES 
., NOV. 3rd 

ccn s 
men's shop, inc. 

******************** 
t 



BOXED 
I 
X-MAS 

CARDS 
regultu price NOW AT 
College Square 811 W. McKinley , Mishawaka 
At • ~ ! 
:31

The •
• 
•
• ·Corner ••• 

-COUPON­
Expire3lov. 3rd 
BASKIN ROBBINS 
523 W. McKINLEY (ACROSS FROM T & C SHOP. CENTER) 
*$.10 OFF ON DOUBLE-DIP CONE 
• OR FOUNTAIN GOODIE •• COUPON ONLY GOOD • • AT THIS BASKIN-ROBBINS •
Of ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
McKinley and Hickory GRAND OPENING 


BULOVA ACCUTRON
FREE 

WATCH DRAWING -SIGN UP NOW ­
-20% OFF on all Turquoise Jewelry -20% OFF on all Diamond and Opal Jewelry -15% OFF on all clocks -FREE Accuracy test of your watch 
Join our earring & ring club (Buy 5 aria get one free) ASK FOR DETAILS 
HIRTH'S HOUSE OF TIME 
919 McKinley Hwy. College Square (Across from Town & Country) MISHAWAKA 
Phone 255 -3817 
• 
' ~ 
!


31 • 
•
•
•
•
•
• 

Wednesday, October 29, 1975 the observer
Moslems, Christians 

Foreigners flee Beirut as battle continues 
BEIRUT, Lebanon <APl -Moslem and Christian gunmen battled outside Lebanon's Par­liament on Tuesday as convoys of Americans and other foreign­ers sped to the airport for flights out of this strife-torn capital. 
Marine guards at the U.S. Embassy changed from dress blues to combat fatigues and flak jackets when stray rounds from a nearby combat zone be­gan hitting the building. Rock­et-propelled grenades and ma­chine gun bursts slammed into three of Beirut's most ex­pensive hotels. 
Nonstop fighting made it im­possible to accurately count casualties, but officials esti­mated that 23 died during the <.'arly part of the night and 120 on Monday. 
Premier Rashid Karami an­

nounced another cease-fire bid 
to end the war between Chris­
tian militiamen and Palestin­
ian-led Moslems. He said a 
nine-man "security group" 
would meet in his office until it 
comes up with "effective meas­ures to end once and for all the tragedy that has been gripping Lebanon." The group repre­sents leftist, rightist and reli­
gious  groups  involved  in  the  
fighting.  
The  bloody  street  war  has  

slowly paralyzed government, commerce and basic public services in this small Arab na­tion of three million. 
The gun battle outside Parlia­ment House prevented Leba­non's 99-man National Assem­bly from meeting to discuss the crisis. Deputies had to be evac­uated in armored cars. 
Witnesses said several ve­hicles filled with leftist Moslem gunmen drove past the parlia­ment building just before the meeting started, shouting in­sults at the deputies. Bod­yguards of Pierre Gemayel, leader of the Christian Pha­lange party, opened up on the Moslems, and one gunman on each side was killed before the shooting stopped. 
House Speaker Kamel Assad called it "an attempt to as­sassinate the democratic estab-

Since the first tent city opened, the camps here have handled nearly 50,000 refugees. More than 45,000 have left, the overwhelming number settled through sponsors. Charitable in­stitutions are paid $500 for each refugee resettled. 
There have been seven deaths and 161 births. Each of the babies legally is a native born American. Of the 600 chil­dren who arrived without their parents, all but 100 have either been placed in foster homes or made members of some other Vietnamese family passing through the camp. 
But there have been prob­lt·ms. 
Capt. Getlin, who served in a combat unit in Vietnam and lost a brother in the war, said som{' sponsors have tried to make their Vietnamese charges into personal servants and oth­ers have attempted to force young Vietnamese girls into sexual liaisons. He said Los An­geles police were called in one case of a Vietnamese girl who was being threatened with harm if she did not submit to her sponsor's sexual demands. 
In interviews with Americans here, the plight of the reluctant refugees receives a lot of sym­pathy. Their prospects are of­ten likened to the apprehen­sions an American might feel if he were told he had to leave a refugee camp in Vietnam and go into an alien society, where religion, customs, culture and language were totally foreign. 
Some of the reasons the Viet­namese fear new lives in their new country are false but none the less real to the beholder. One report among refugees, who are 45 per cent Buddhist, is that sponsorship through a religious based agency means they must adopt the agency's religion. An attempt by one agency to do that with a group of Cambodian children who ar­rived without their parents was held unconstitutional-by a court in Los Angeles. 
A test of the mood among the refugees that must move to Ft. Chaffee is the almost fatalistic attitude toward the prospect of facing an American winter for the first time. Le Quang Tich, :l6, the Vietnamese coordinator for Camp Four, said: 
"Most do not want to go to Chaffee. They are very much worried about the winter. None of us has seen snow, and some do not understand what it is. But to some Chaffee is not the worst thing that can happen to them in America now. They are more worried about other things. And at least they will be in buildings with floors and stoves. Won't they?" American officials say yes. 
There is also an element of fear over the impending move to Arkansas for some who do want to shed their refugee stat­us. 
"Many do not want to go to Chaffee because they are tired of living in camps," said Tich. ''They want to get their chil­dren into schools where they can learn what Americans must know. They want to have jobs, to have a firm <stable) life, to really become Ameri­cans." 
When the lesser educated among the Vietnamese talk of their aspirations for the future, it sometimes lacks realism, and there are fears that some nasty 

SLC formulates new committees 
(continued from page 1) 
input from hall presidents on how 
best to regulate drinking in the 
halls." 
John DePietro announced the 
formulation of a subcommittee on 
Academic honesty to be headed by 
John T. Goldrick. "The purpose of 
the committee is to re-emphasize 
the importance of adherence ot 
eertain fundamental values and to 
look into furter enforcement 
procedures," DePietro stated. 
Brother Just Paczesny, chair­
man of the Off-Campus and 
Community Relations Committee 
urged "cooperation with the food 
co-op to gelp get it off the ground". 
He plans to "work with neigh­
borhood groups in South Bend" 
and "develop work programs for 
students in the summer and during 
the year." 
The SLC approved the 
suggestion of Robert Kerby of the 
Steering Committee for revision of 
SLC by-laws according to 
recommendations of members. 
Bro. Just Paczesny emphasized 
the importance of letting students 
"Know where to go th get things 
done". "If there is not enough 
interest from the students," he 
commented, "things just won't het 
done." 

lishment in Lebanon. I declare evacuation to 550 family mem­such an attempt will never suc­bers of 230 staff members ceed and we will continue to working in eight agencies. A meet'." He scheduled another spokesman said there was no 
meeting session Thursday immediate plan to evacuate morning "to give deputies time U.N. employes, only their fami­to reach the building safely." lies. Beirut radio said most str~ts U.S. Ambassador G. were "swept by machine gun battles, sniping and bomlfing 
attacks, in addition to mortar and rocket duels in the city and 

Houck gives S&H lecture 
on its outskirts. Appeals to stop anu universities, out of 287 ap­plicants in the U.S., to receive the 
Problems plague refugees lectureship award. 
shooting at ambulances and 
Dr. John W. Houck, professor of fire engines are not being management in the College ofheeded by the warring fac­Business Administration at thetions." 

Unversity of Notre Dame, will

Foreign residents have been 
present the second lecture in aleaving Lebanon since inter­series of lectures on "The Designcommunal fighting began last of Humanistic Work"on Wed­April, but the trickle became a nesday, Oct. 29. The talk, to betorrent after embassies advised given at 3:30 p.m. in the audit­all dependents and nonessential orium of the Hayes-Healy Centerpersonnel to leave. 

will be "Worker Aliena ton: AnA convoy of 40 cars took Historical Perspective."

American families from a seas­ide hotel to the international 
Open to the public, the talks are funded by a grant from the S&H

airport. Embassy sources said 
more than roo Americans had Foundation and are patterned to registered for another convoy 
give Michiana residents a forum Wednesday. for an examination of the range of The United Nations offered 
social alternatives available in the design and structuring of work and work organizations. 
Notre Dame is one of 25 colleges 

Houck has taught business shocks may lie ahead for many organization and management 
when they finally do have to classes at both the undergraduate 
come to grips with the English and graduate levels at Notre Dame language, paying bills and land­since 1957. ing jobs He has recently researched and 

Top quality steri'O components, factory sealed, full warranty, at super student discounts. Call Elliott Enterprises at 233-3769 after 6 PM. 
Quality Stereo components at 20-40 percent savings. RMS Audio 321 S. Main. 288-1681, 12-7 PM. 
1971 Triumph TR6. Steel belted radial tires. Price reduced. Call 272-2844 after 5 PM. 
For salt>: FurniturE', chairs, 
shelves, everything. Call 232-3516. Very rt>sonable. 
For sale: San yo Doby cassette player. New. 287-2088. 
FOR RENT 
For rent: someone to sublet apartment at Crestwood. Call 232­3516 from J 
For rent: someone to sublet apartment at Crestwood from Jan. to May. Call 232-3516. 
-
Attention Married students: fur­nished house 2 miles from NO. 6 rooms plus llf2 baths, utility, screened porch, garage. No pets, no children. References and deposit required. $175 month plus utilities. Call 232-0192 after 5 or weekends. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found: Sterling silver Cross pen with initials engraved. 289-8197. 
Lost: Navy blue White Stag ski parka. Call 7802. 
-
Lost: One gold knit sports hat at the 
rally Friday night. Please return to 
Tom, 232 Stanford, or call 8650. 
Reward offered: 6-pac. 
. --· 
Lost: copper frame glasses, ACC vicinity or D-1 Parking_ lot. 1264. 
NOTICES 
Typing 35 cents per page. Call Dan 272-5549. 
IBM Selectric II Typing, student rates, dissertations, Linda's Letters 289-5193. 

McMurtrie Godley worked at the embassy compound with a skeleton staff of diplomats as bullets zinged outside. Steel shutters were lowered at win­dows and Marine guards manned the entrance with auto­matic rifles and shotguns. 
proposed the establishment of a Center for Advanced Social and Economic Forecasting and Planning which would bring toget­her scholarly interest to explore alternative figures and develop policies which might facilitate movement toward more humanist­ically oriented outcomes. 
A former Danforth Teaching I<'ellow, he received A.B. and J.D. degrees at Notre Dame, and MBA at the University of North Carolina, and a Master of Laws degree at Harvard Law School. 
He is a former president of the Notre Dame chapter of the AmericanAssociation of University Professors, vice chairman of the Student Life Council, member of te Academic and College Councils, president of the St. Joseph County Mental Health Association, director of the South Bend Urban League, and vice president of the St. Joseph High School board of <.'ducation. 
Dr. Houck and Dr. William Heisler, also of the College of l3usiness Administration, are co­directors of the lecture series 
Learn sport parachuting the safe way at Oxbow Air Sports Center. 2 week special -$35 jump course plus $15 for first jump. Contact Dale 683­8980 of John 1 782-3500. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-9746. 
Free ride to Mass. for Thanksgiving to any senior over 21 willing to sign tor rt>nted Van. Other riders to pay all expt>nsps. Call 1022 aflt>r 5 ask for Jim. 
"Gay Guide to Notre Dame-South BPnd". One dollar. Available at Pandora's or write P.O. Box 206, Notre Dan.<', ,_, "b~36. 
Will do typing, experienced. Term 
papers, manuscripts, etc.  Call 233­ 
8512.  
Student  Government  T-Shirt  

Agency. Call Dave Bossy for top quality, low prices on custom made T-Shirts. 233-3647. 
Don't forget HALLOWEEN DANCE this Friday. Super music by Stratus, 9-1. 75 cents, refresh nwnts. 
BOOK SHOP 
30,000 Books and Prints. Ralph A. Casperson Books. 1303 Niles-Buchanan Road, Niles. 
Hours -Wed., Sat.,Sun., 9 to 7 or chance. 
----------· 
----~--­

Chicago Greyhound leaves main circle 5:45PM Friday. Call Tom at 8338 for info. 
.Will do typing, experienced, term papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233­8512. 
. 
PERSONALS 

Girls wanted to Improve MBA's social Iife. Inquire to Roger D. P.O. Box 723, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Tonight's the night I Judging! Prizes! Refreshments! Prizes! St­an ford and Farley's Pumpkin Carving Contest in front of Haggar Hall, 10 PM. 
-I I t I ~-I I I • .:. I I 
---~--­

the observer Wednesday, October 29, 1975 
Glass chasing Olympic dream 
by Fred Herbst 

The Olympic Games are a far­away dream for most Notre Dame students. But for Tim Glass, the dream is approaching reality. 
Glass is an All-American fencer and captain of this year's Notre Dame epee fencing team. The epee is his speciality. 
Currently ranked eighth nationally, based on previous competition, Glass has hopes of making the United States fencing team for the Montreal Games in 1976. 
"It's my biggest goal," Glass qid of his attempt to make the Olympic squad. "I think it'd be a great personal achievement. It means alot to me. If I don't make it this year. I'll try agai[J in 1980." 
Glass didn't become a fencer by choice. When he was fourteen his father made him take up fencing in hopes of improving his coor­dination for basketball. 
At Notre Dame High School of 
Niles. Ill., Glass worked between 
two and three hours a day on his 
fencing under the guidance of Fr. 
Larry Calhoun. Calhoun is a 
Notre Dame graduate who learned 
to fence from Notre Dame coach 
Mike DeCicco. Besides his high 
school practice, Glass also took 
professional lessons three days a 
week. 

After graduation from high 
school, Glass decided to attend 
Notre Dame due to the strong 
fencing program and coaching of 
DeCicco. 

Only a junior, he has already 
won All-American fencing honors 
and finished fourth in the NCAA 
championships last year. 

In 1974, as a freshman, he was eliminated in the semi-finals from the United States National Championships. Based on this showing, he was ranked 18th in the nation by the American Fencing League. This placed him on the 25-man Olympic training team. 
Last year he bolted from 18th to eighth by trying for first in the United States National Cham­pionship. He lost a playoff match for the championship to a member of the 1972 Olympic team. 
Glass represented the United States at the World Championships in Budapest last summer. He was eliminated after three rounds by the eventual gold metalist from Sweden. 
Only the top five epee fencers 
will make the Olympic squad. 
According to DeCicco, for Glass to 
make the team he must have one 
or two good tournaments and made 
a good showing at the National 
Championships. "He must 
duplicate what he did last sum­
mer," DeCicco said. 

DeCicco, who is a member of the 
Olympic selection committee, 
believes Glass' chances of 
making the team "are better than 
"We are looking to him and others like him to make steady progress and hopefully in the next year he will have the opportunity to go from eighth to fourth," DeCicco said. 
Glass is currently on a special training schedule, devised by DeCicco, on which he runs three to four miles a day besides his nor­mal fencing practice. 
Based on Glass' progress, DeCicco believes "he's a bona fided Olympic candidate since of all the people he'll be competing with, he probably has the greatest momentum.'' 
"I'd have to say that the odds are 
60-40 against me making it," said 
Glass, who is obviously not as 
optimistic as his coach. 
"But if I make it, I don't think I'd 
be over awed by the competition, 
it's just like the World Cham­
pionships and I've already com­
peted in them," Glass said. 
If Tim Glass makes the 
Olympic team, it will undoubtedly 
be quite an achievement. But it's a 
big "if". While Glass has a chance 
at making the squad, he's a long 
way from being a sure bet. 


*Observer 








Sports 
Irish have 20 players in NFL 
Hy The Associated Press 

Notre Dame has produced 20 players who currently are per­forming in the National Foot­ball League -half the total in the NFL from all Indiana col­leges.
Fifteen NFL players are from Purdue, three are from Indiana, one is from Ball State and one is from Valparaiso.
Former Irish players are: 
George Kunz, offensive tackle, Baltimore; Mike Kad­ish. defensive tackle, and Walt Patulski, defensive end, Buf­falo; Jom O'Malley, linebacker, Denver; Jim Lynch, line­backer, Kansas City; Bob Kue­chenberg, offensive guard,Miami; Steve Sylvester, offen­sive guard, and Dave Casper,tight end, Oakland; Rocky{Bleier running back, and Terry Hanratty, quarterback, Pitts­burgh; and Drew Mahalic, line­b'acker. San Diego.''Also, Bob Thomas, placekick­er, Chicago; Mike McCoy, de­fensive tackle, Greey Bay;Mike Fanning, defensive end1;fack Snow, wide receiver, ana Joe Schibelli, offensive guard,Los Angeles; Alan Page, defen­
sive tackle, Minnesota; GregCollins, linebacker, San Fran­cisco; and John Pergine, line­backer, and Joe Theismann, quarterback, Washington.
Former Boilermakers in the NFL are: 
Donnie Green, offensive tackle, Buffalo; Mike Phipps,quarterback, Cleveland; Otis Armstrong, running back, Den­ver; Gregg Bingham, line­backer, Houston; Len Dawson, quarterback, Kansas City; Tim Foley, cornerback, and Bob Griese, quarterback, Miami; and Darryl Stingley, wide re­ceiver. New England. 
Also, Ed Flanagan, center, San Diego; Gary Hrivnak, de­fensive end, and Bill Knox, cor­nerback, Chicago; Steve Baum­gartner, defensive end, and Larry Burton, wide receiver, New Orleans; Tom Luken, of-

Ski meeting 
At 8 p.m. on Thursday October 30 a meeting will be held in room 1· C of La Fortune for all those who want to race for the Notre Dame Ski Team this winter. 

f.ensive guard, Philadelphia; and Dave Butz, defensive end, 
Washing~on. 
Ball State has contributed cornerback Terry S of New Orleans, and Vaiparaiso's ~arry Puetz is an offensive guard with the Jets. 
Pangborn wins Interhall soccer 
Hy Pete Bain 
Pangborn won the Interhall 
;;occer championship last night by 
defeating Flanner, 1-0. 
The game's only score came in t­
he third quarter on a hard shot 
from ten yards out and to the 
right of the goal. Flanner's goalie 
partially deflected the shot, but the 
ball still had enough momentumto 
trickle in. Both teams had 
numerous scoring opportunities in 
the hard fought game, only to have 
them thwarted by excellent 
defenxes. The game climaxed a 
six-game regular seasaon during 
which both teams were un­
defeated. 

Ranked eighth nationally, Tim Glass prepares for a year that will determine if he will gain a spot on the Olympic team. 

Club Sports Summary 
This past Sunday afternoon, the Notre Dame lacrosse Club dropped a close 11-9 decision to their arch rivals, the Chicago Lacrosse Club. The Irish fell behind in the first period 5-3 and were never able to make up the two goal spread. 
Bob Thibodeau and Tommy Bingle each scored two goals for ND. Other goals were scored by Mark Connelly, Bob Driscoll, Mike Kinsella, Don Trabert and Jeff Johnson. 
The ND "B" team lost to a Chicago "B" team 4-2. Goal scorers for the Irish were Roger Monforton and Jim King. The last fall season game will be played this Sunday, Nov. 2 against Purdue at 1:OOp.m. on the Stepan Fields. 
*********+: 
Notre Dame's soccer team, behind three goals from freshman sensaton Bill Hagerty, defeated Eastern Michigan 4-1 on Sunday. The soccer team is now 5-8. 
Hagerty, in addition to the goal, also assisted on the other score by Kevin Buckley. Senior captain Jim Donovan picked up two assists, and Jim Rice had one. 
The fnal home game of the year will be against the University of Chicago at Stepan Eield on Sunday at 1:30 p.m. 
********** 
The Notre Dame Sailing Team had the past 
weekend off in preparation for the two regattas coming up this 
week~nd. The regattas scheduled for this weekend are The Hoosier 
Classic,' hosted by Indiana University, and the University of 
Toledo s Fall Regatta. After th~ fine perofrmance turned in by the 
team two ~eeks ag? ~t the Davis Cup Regatta, hopes are high that 
the team Will start hvmg up to preseason predictions. 
In preparation for the Kennedy Cup Regatta, an invitational 
rega_tta sponsored by the Naval Academy, the Sailing Team is 
lookmg for people who have had big boat racing experience to 
bolster the proposed team. This regatta will be sailed in 44 ft. 
yawls. 
****"+:***** 
Notre Dame men's and women's crews both placed 16th in the 
Head of the Charles crew regatta this past weekend. Each com­
peted against thirty-nine other rowing teams in the three-mile race 
up the Charles River in Boston. 
The Irish men lost mementum and twenty seconds when they 
were forced to stop rowing by a collision with a Georgetown boat. 
The NDcrew finished with a timme of 17:05.0, approximately 1 
minute short of the winning time set by the College Boat Club 
<Penn). 
The Notre Dame wmen came in 2 minutes and 23.3 seconds 
behind the winning crew from Vespers Boat Club, with a time of 
19:53.0. 
********** 
Th_e Woman's tennis team ended their fall season last Wednesday b_eatmg Northwestern University 5-3-1. Notre Dame's top woman's smgles player, Betsy Fallon, won her match, 6-0, 6-1. Third seed playe_r, Kam Amato won her singles match 6-3, 6-2. Notre Dame ends Its fall season winning five of their matches and losting two. 
********** 
The Women's field hockey team lost their last home game of the 
seas~n last Thursday night Albion College 4-1. In the varsity game, 
the first goal was scored by right inner Mary Anne Dooley. I the 
se~ond half, left inner Maureen Maloney scored the other goal on a 
dnve started from the striking circle. The B-team also lost to 
Albion 2-1. Lauren Anne Wood made the only Notre Dame score on 
a crowded shot around the goal. 
The team will play in the Indiana State Field Hockey Tour­
nament this weekend at Indiana University in Bloomington. 


