

Smith photographs the Mobile Home Show.....p.3 Praschak on the Summer Observer .....p.6 Kissel on Nighttime Chicago..... p. 11 
O'Meara on the A YOPs..... p. 12 
Buchwald on Grass...... p. 7 Graver on the Mobile Home Show .........p. 9 
Smith on IUSB and Notre Dame....p.9 
Observer on its last legs.....pp. 1-12 
.......-..,.. 

~-----­
Thursday, August 14, 1975
2 
the observer 

Insights•••••.• 
Remember how we reported last week that some guy had built a huge tomato by playing loud stereo music to it through headphones? Well, this week we found out that a record company in Washington D.C. 
has a new single out featuring  a  singing  
ring  a  sin2ing  orchestra  made  
up  of  nothing  but plants.  

The record company says it has attached electrodes to plant's leaves and then has recorded the "music" given off by various flowers and shrubs. The president of the company, Sounds Reasonable, reports that each species of plant has its own unique sin2ing voice. Tomatoes, he says, generate the strongest sounds of all. (But we 
knew that anyway, right?) The president further explains that plants 
will change their tune when interrupted, and says that it is common for plants to stop singing altogether when a stranger walks in the room. Other times, he says, plants will sing wildly when offered something to eat. 
* 
Rev. Carl Mcintire, the right wing iun­damentalist preacher, is planning for anew tourist attraction to his complex in Cape Canaveral, Fla. Mcintire has brought some 40 Vietnamese refugees to the site to live in a re-created "Vietnamese Village." just like "one our boys went into during the war." Besided. being a tourist attraction, the villagers will make porcelain elephants, vases and other items "that Americans love so well," Mcintire also has plans for a 

I ~................................_..,...~................... I' ~ AN ICE CREAM SPECIAL ~ ~ IBUY ONE HOT FUDGE SUNDAy i 
r 
I ~ AND GET ONE FREE · ~ ~ AT (with this coupon) ~ 
I FARRELL'S ICE CREAM PARLOR I I SCOTTSDALE MALL 291-3800 I 
~..........................................................................~ 
------~-----------­
1 THIS SUNDAY AUG. 171
I 

NO COVER CHARGE. 1 WITH THIS AD 1 
I NOW APPEARING I 
I MICKEY BLIZZARD I 
I I

I I SBDLJrS I I 
BITB CLUB I 
On U.S. 31 between Niles and South Bend -Free Parking-f'h. 683·4350 
CONTINUOUS ENTERTAINMENT FROM 9 P.M•. TILL 2 A.M. --. 
I ..___________ -I 
.L. 
:::.....-. ------....,.. • • • > ­

LITUI\GICAL SCHEDULE 
SACRED HEART MAIN CHURCH 
MONDAY THRU SATURDAY. 
June 23 through August 3 

The Observer an independent student newspaper Founded November 3, 1966 Fred Graver Editor-in-Chief Andy Praschak Associate Editor Ed Pawlowski Advertising Manager Judy Smith IUSB Editor Bob Tracey Ad Layout Candy F rankovelgia P reduction Manager Sue Zwick Production Manager Chris Smith Photo Editor Kate Bernard Production Tony Proscio Columnist News: 283-1715 Editorials: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471  
Thursday, August 14, 1975  

8:00 a.m. 
11: 15 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 5!00 p.m. 5:15p.m. 
7:00 p.m. 7:15p.m. 
SUNDAY. 
9:00 a.m. 
9:30 a.m. 
10:45 a.m. 
12:15 p.m. 
MORNING PRAISE IN 
THE LADY CHAPEL CONFESSION MASS CONFESSION 
Stritch speaks at summer session
MASS 
CONFESSION EVENSONG IN THE 
commencement exercises 
LADY CHAPEL 
.. 
(EVENSONG 0~. _FRIDAY WILL BE Two contrasting themes, like those of a Beethoven sonata, are
CELEBRATED IN THE GROTTO) 
interwoven in the Summer Session 
story at the Uni.versity of Notre 
Dame, Thomas Stritch told
MORNING PRAISE IN 
graduated today at the 130th an­THE LADY CHAPEL nual August commencement exercises.
MASS 
The veteran professor of MASS American Studies, completing his 40th year on the faculty, described
MASS 
the first theme as "practicality." 
7: l5 EVENSONG IN THE LADY Recalling that the individual states passed legislation in the 1915 -1925
CHAPEL 
era that required certification for teachers, he noted a recurring emphasis by summer students "to get that degree, you gotta hav~ it, Cambodian refugee hamlet. It is not known whether either of his "re-creations" will contain shooting galleries. 
* 
4:. 

The latest issue of Rolling Stone reports on some hot Rock and Roll gossip con­cerning the Rolling Stones and Elton John. Seems that sweet little Elton wanted to give a party for the Stones after their Denver show, but the Stones refused to show up. 
Elton, dressed in a cowboy hat and a Los Angeles Dodgers Windbreaker (he sure knows how to put clothes together!), joined the Stones fQr their opening number, "Honky Tonk Women," saying that it was the only tune he knew. <outside of several choruses of "Benny and the Jets> Then, he reappeared, uninvited, after a few songs and stayed on stage intil "Midnight Ram­bler," ten songs later. 
Billy Preston and Ian Stewart, whose accesibility to the keyboards was hampered by Mr. John, were reportedly very upset with the "Pinball Wizard," as was Keith Richard. 
It was rumored that Mick Jagger was running around around backstage after the 
show with a screaming "We'll TONIGHT!!!"  heavy see  chain who  in saves  his his  hand, life  
*  

Ever-involved in community relations, the Hells Angels in the Southern California area have begun an anti-hard drug cam­paign with billboards throughout the area, which picture a skull and crossbones with the phrase "No Hope With Dope," emblazoned upon them. 
A spokesman for the club explained that the Angels were opposed to heroin and cocaine, and do not consider marijuan~. barbituates or amphetamines as "hard· stuff. <it's nice to see they draw the line somewhere.) 
Members of the Angels are also available for speaking engagements in the area. 
<Maybe the Notre Dame Club of California could look into having an Angel appear at one of their meetings.) 
* 

The Village Voice asked readers to send in any crazy, wild, paranoiac rumors about the ('lA. Among the suggestions they have received: 
"The World Trade Center, a CIA project, is actually a huge electromagnet (the buildings are connected underground, forming a U-shape with prongs toward the sky.) When the towers are magnetized, they effect slight but precise variations in the orbit of the moon, which in turn sends huge tidal waves to wreak havoc on any country whose policies are not in our national in­terest." 
* 

We've all heard of cops who protest that they, too, smoke evil weeds and hate to bust fellow smokers. Well, if ther've been true to their word, they may be hearing the same lament from other men in blue. In­terdepartmental busts are becoming common. 
In New York City, police officer Samuel Fisher, 27, a Vietnam veteran and five years a policeman, was acquited of selling marijuana to an undercover detective. Fisher, who admitted on the stand that he smoked pot, was accused of selling an ounce of grass to Officer Vincent Punzone in 1969. 
According to police reports, Fisher sold the ounce for $90. <Those cops are so crazy when they want something.) Fisher's lawyer, Harold Foner (hope you're getting all these names down. There'll be a quiz later,) called Punzone a "Judas who betrayed his friends" and argued that Punzone has busted Fisher and other ''former friends" because his position on the force was in jeopardy. 
*** 

get that certivication, never mind the cultivation of the mind and soul, just get those credits." 
"The second theme, purer and more insistend," was described by Stritch as "the triumphant tonic, centering in his freshman days as a teacher as it is not around the search for God and His goodness through the life of the mind and teaching. This gave a special keynote to the summer session music not found druing thr regular school year," he said. 
Stritch said he joined the University historians, such as Fathers Moore and Me Avoy, in giving credit for the strength of the present graduate program at Notre Dame to the spirit of zeal and goodness, as well as the many able scholars who diminated. the 
summer sessions. 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 8 dollars per semester (16 dollars per year) from The Ob· server, Box Q Notre Dame, In· diana, 46556. Second Class postage 
. paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556 


Thurlct.y, August 14, 1975 the observer 
3


Dream on...  . :..::;$~-~ . .......;,;,o._ -~:;~ ...and on•••  • .. and on•••  

_,... -..­

I 
( 
r 
" 
I 
~ 
~ 
r l
r r 
r 
i /.. 
~ 
·' 
l \ 
! 
~ 
r 
I 
~
I ) 
., 
·' 
.. 

THE HOUSE OF TURQUOISE 
314 South Main 259-0751 Mishawaka Open 10 am. to 6:30 p.m. except Wed. I SilL 
•NAVAJO &ZUNI JEWELRY • CUSTOM SILVERWORK pee 

CHECK OUT 
HOPS N' SPIRITS 
THIS WEEKS SPECIAL 
6 PACK OF COKE IN CANS 99' 
FOUR POPULAR BEERS 
AT FOUR SPECIAL PRICES 
WE SELL KEGS AT THE CHEAPEST PRICE' IN TOWN 812 E. LASALLE AVE. 287-2581 

PI.AYLAND GOLF aNTER 
Open dawn till 10:00 pm f HOLE • '-\1 3 GOLF COUISI!: DriYinl lan1• 
' LOCATEO uS 33 AT lltOHWOOO 
I 
Call I 288-0033 I 
If Ho Ml Can 212-2366 17U LINCOlN WAY EAST 50. aENO 
GOOD FOR ONE PAR 3ar MINIATURE GOLF ADMISSION WITH A PAm ADMISSION 
On !lther Th• Par 3 or The Minloturt Not good sundays or Holidays 
Otter expires Aug. 30,1975 
Film and rock giants merge in ..Tommy" 
For the price of a theatre ticket you can peek up Marilyn Monroe's dress, watch Elton John sing in the world's tallest plat­form shoes, see Ann Margret swim in a deluge of pork and beans, be amazed by the true talent of Tina Turner and see one of the most entertaining movies of 1975. The movie is "Tommy" and it is a must for fans of rock music, pinball, or any one of the many film stars and rock giants who per­form their hearts out in this modern opera. 
Film  stars  include  Ann-Margret,  Jack  
Nicholson  and  Oliver  Reed,  while  Elton  
John,  the  Who,  Eric  Clapton  and  Tina  

Turner make up the cast of top rock en­tertainers. As Rolling Stone Magazine contends, "It brings together, for the first time really, the two main camps of con­temporary entertainment, rock music and film, and utilizes the talents of the top figures of each." 
The screen version of "Tommy", taken from the Who album released by the Who in 1969, is written and directed by Ken Russell, whose other accomplishments include, "Billion Dollar Brain," "The Boyfriend," and "The Devils". According to Russell, "Tommy" is the best modern opera since Berg's "Wozzeck." 
The movie, composed entirely of sung dialogue, tells the story of Tommy, played by Roger Daltrey of the Who, who is struck deaf, dumb and blind, after witnessing his father's murder by his mother, played by Ann-Margret and his step-father, played by Oliver Reed. 

Visually, the film explores Tommy's inner universe, his desolation, his plea for help and the pictures he paints of the outer world on his esoteric journey to a miracle cure. 
Ann-Margret and Oliver Reed display a twisted sense of concern for their son and spend years searching for a cure for him. Their "love" for Tommy is contradicted by their 'blatant neglect which leads to a perverted experience with his cousin Kevin played by Paul Nicholson and homosexual rape by his disgusting Uncle Ernie, played by Keith Moon also of the Who. 
Their search for a cure also takes deranged paths, as in the encounter they arrange with the Acid Queen portrayed by Tina Turner. Tina, who manages to rip through the scene as no other vocalist can, proves that "She never, ever, does nothin' nice and easy." She pumps him full <>f drugs, literally spins his inner self around, temporarily strips him of his total existence, and still he remains deaf, dumb and blind. Turner fails to cure him but at the same time succeeds in contributing to one of the most poignant scenes of the movie . 
Also, in their search for a cure, they take a reluctant Tommy to the temple of St. Marilyn Monroe to touch an image of her and drink a belt of scotch similar to receiving communion. Still, unsuccessful . 
review by Andy Praschak 
Tommy, still out of touch with his surroundings, discovers a new sense of awareness and turns to pinball. He is pitted against the Pinball Champion of the World, Elton John, and manages to defeat him. The scene of the show down is probably one of the most entertaining of the rock scenes as John, perched on three feet high platform shoes, tantalizes the crowd of over two thousand groupies with his rendition of 
·"Pinball Wizard" and eventually hands his crown to Tommy. Ann-Margret, beleagued with guilt over her son's con­dition, wriths in oceans of pork and beans, chocolate and soap suds, probably the best scene for special effects. 

ELTON 

JOHN 
Virtually crushed with frustration, Margret pushes Tommy through a symbolic looking glass which restores all his senses and a new outlook on the world, dominated by his materialistic mother, whom he proceeds to cleanse. 
Tommy proclaims himself a new messiah 
and spreads  what  has  become  a  rather  
cliche  philosophy  of  peace,  love  and  
brotherhood  which  is  well  received  by  

millions only to be crushed by these same followers. They proceed to kill his parents, destroy his revered pinball machines and leave him battered and torn. Tommy is left completely alone with what is known in epistemological circles as a new sense of self. 
The movie carries throughout, rather obvious and yet very griping symbolisms 
and themes, the most obvious being the· similarities between the life of Tommy and the life of Jesus. Tommy preaches to the multitudes, becomes their king and then is turned upon and destroyed, only to rise again. 
The idea of un-love in the modern family is displayed through the un-love and neglect in Tommy's family, done excellently by Ann-Margret and Oliver Reed. The con­ditions in the family lead to the theme of mistreatment of the handicapped, shown through perversions mom and dad unknowingly allow to happen to Tommy. 
Tina Turner also displays an excellent drug scene literally stripping Tommy of all but his skeleton. 
"Tommy is the acting debut for Roger Daltrey, who performs remarkably well, from the blank stare of a deaf, dumb and blind man to the look of raw anger for his vulgarly materialistic parents and finally the face of a man totally rejected and yet ! still holding onto a true sense of self. 
The movie, costing over three million dollars to produce, carries important though obvious and basic symbols. The symbols are presented quite effectively for a musical production. It will carry different meanings to different people but all will have to agree-that deaf, dumg and blind kid sure makes for one hell of a movie. 


See it twice ! "Tommy", the ambitious Rock Musical is scheduled to open Friday August 15th in FORUM II of South Bend's new FORUM -1 & II twin cinem& complex on U.S. 31 (just north of Cleveland Road) 

. ,. 

''Love and Death'': 
Allen grows 
Is this movie funny? 
I mean really, is it at all funny? It's about a man who finds himself sentenced to die by a firing squad in the morning, who sits in his cold dark cell reviewing the details of his life. He lives at the time of Napoleon's Invasion of Russia, has served unwillingly in the army and has, by accident or fate, become a decorated war hero. He marries a woman who takes three or four years to Jearn to love him, and then she leads him on an ill-fated venture to assassinate Napoleon, where he is captured and sentenced to die. 
If that doesn't seem un-funny enough, the film bases itself on the traditions of the great Russian Novels, and throws in countless allusions to the film classics, such as "Potemkin" and "The Seventh Seal." It asks some profound philosophical questions, but at the same time attempts to make light of them. (Example: "And even if there is a God, he can probably be best described as an underachiever.") 
To top it all off, it features Diane Keaton in a role that she just doesn't seem to want to get into at all, which, if you know anything from watching Diane Keaton, is courting disaster. 
Is this movie funny? 
Yes. 
Thank God that Woody Allen made this movie. He's the only person in the world that I would trust with all of the above elements. This is perhaps his most satisfying comedy, certainly the best film he has ever directed (which excludes "Play It Again, Sam"). 
Woody Allen is taking an incredible number of risks with this movie, and it is 

a little 
review by Fred Graver 
clear that he has grown some in domg that. In attempting to translate the clash of philosophical ideologies into film, Allen runs the risk of either being too shallow for the intellectual audience or too deep for the film audience. Much of the audience that stedp out for a Woody Allen movie is going for the laughs, and isn't too willing to stretch themselves to the point of understanding the dichotomy of the categorical imperative. 
Another faction of the audience, not as large but just as difficult to deal with, will view Allen's attempts at high wit as missing the mark. 
All of which is reminiscent of James Thurber's remark about writing comedy: "The real tragedy of being a comedy writer is that just as you are getting deeply into a piece, the thought hits you that it was done twelve years ago by Robert Benchley, and he did it better and in a few hours' playing around at the typewriter." 
Woody Allen is not exactly breaking new ground in this film. It is very funny, and brings him to a growth point in his career that could far surpass "Sleeper," but only if he stays with it. 
There are some incredible moments in this film. There are also a few moments that are close to boring: they drag. But, inconcictency has always been a by-product of Woody Allen's film work. The best that can be said about "Love and Death" is that it is by far the most consistent effort he has done to date. 
Better catch "Love and Death" while you can, at the River Park Theatre. The next feature is the Monty Python movie, and that's not half as funny as the previews of it which accompany Allen's movie. 

5
the observer 

FOR A SPECIAL OCCASION 
(OR FOR NO REASON AT ALL) 
SAY IT WITH FLOWERS or GIFTS 
from WYGANT FLORAL co. INC. 327 LWW SOUTH BEND 232-3354 


Foreign Car Parts Co. 
Parts & accessories for imported ca 
for all makes at lowest prices.
.-eaion•l Dittnbutor 

'************************* 
: For all Studt>nts, Faculty & Staff, a 10 ~*pt>rct>nt discount with ID and purchase of * Jt-$HI or mor(' * 
t**************.********** 
215 Dixie Way N Roseland' So. Bend 
I 



Cavalier 
Camera 
Scottsdale Mall 
next to 
Bishop's Buffet 
0 pen Till 9 pm Evenings 
5  pm  Sunday  
Camera  
and  Darkroom  Supplies  


NNOW APPEARING I BRUCE D CARR U 
HE WHITE HOUSE 
WITH DAILY SPECIALS­MON. & WED. "DRINK & DROWN" 
TUESDAY  "TEQUILA NIGHT"  
THURSDAY  "PITCHER  BEER NIGHT"  
SUNDAY  "LADIES NIGHT"  

2839 N. 5th St. NILES 





( 

f 
'{ ri
• 
' I 
~ 
( 
( 
~ 
( ( 
r 
r 
' 
--·
inside aut 




A lesson to be' learned 
andy praschak 
We're wrapping up the final issue of The Observer tonight and with any luck, we'll be in bed by about five in the morning, not a record by any means. This is the last and final issue of the Summer Observer and I must say that it's been a real experience. They say you're suppose~ to leat;t something from all your experiences and 1f there's one thing I've learned, it's. how painful constant criticism can be a~d m the same respect, how wonderful a b1t of en­couragement and understanding can be. 
The entire staff of the Summer Observer which grew to an astronomical fugure of around ten people, probably have learned this same lesson. And of those ten, around half walked into the job with no past jour­nalism experience, but only a desire to help out a bit in whatever way they could. All 
seriausly, faI k s~!l!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ Let's see who salutes 

art buchwald 
Have you ever wondered what would have happened if the people who are in charge of television today were passing on the draft of the Declaration of Independence? 
The scene is Philadelphia at W JULY-TV. Several men are sitting around holding copies of the declaration. 
Thomas Jefferson comes in nervously. 
"Tommy,'' says the producer, "it's just great. I would say it was a masterpiece." 
"We love it, Tommy boy," the advertising agency man fays. "It sings. Lots of drama, and it holds your interest. There are a few things that have to be changed, but other wise it stays intact." 
"What's wrong with it?" Mr. Jefferson asks. There's a pause. Everyone looks at the man from the network. "Well, frankly, Tommy, it smacks of being a little anti-British. I 
mean, we've got quite a few Tory listeners, and something like this might bring in a lot of mail." 
"Now don't get sore, Tommy boy," the agency man says. "You're the best Declaration of Independence writer in the business. That's why we hired you. But our sponsor, the Boston Tea Co., is interested in selling tea, not independence. Mr. Corn­wallis, the sponsor's representative, is here, and I think he has a few thoughts on the matter. Go ahead, Corne. Let's hear what you think." 
Mr. Cornwallis stands up. "Mr. Jefferson, all of us in this room want this to be a whale of a document. I think we'll agree on that." 
Everyone in the room nods his head. 
"At the same time we feel--I think I can speak for everybody­that we don't want to go over the heads of the mass of people who we hope will buy our product. You use words like despotism, an­nihilation, migration and tenure. Those are all egghead words and don't mean a damn thing to the public. Now I 'ike your stuff about 'life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.' T: y all tie in great with tea, particularly pursuit of happiness, but it's the feeling of all of us that you're really getting into controversial water when you start attacking the King of England." 
Mr. Jefferson says, "But every word of it is true. I've got the documentary proof." 
"Let me take a crack at it, Corney," the agency man says. '.'Look, Tommy boy, it isn't a question of whether it's true or not. All of us here know what a louse ,Geroge III can be. But if you remind people of all those taxes George has laid on us, they're not going to go out and buy tea. They're not going to go out and buy anything." 
Mr. Jefferson says, "Gentlemen, I was told to write a Declaration of Independence. I discussed it with many people 
before  I did  the  actual  writing.  I've  worked  hard  on  this  
declaration--harder than I've worked on an ything in  my life.  You  
either take it or leave it as it is."  

"We're sorry you feel that way about it, Tommy," the agency man says. "We have a responsibility to the country, but we have a bigger responsibility to the sponsor. He's paying for it. We're not in the business of offending people, British people or any other ethnic group. Isn't that so, Mr. Cornwallis?" 
"Check-unless Mr. Jefferson changes it the way we want him to." Mr. Jefferson grabs the declaration and says, "Not for all the tea in Boston," and exits. 
The producer shakes his head. "I don't know, fellows. Maybe we've made a mistake. We could at least have run it up a flagpole to see who saluted." 
"As far as I'm concerned," Mr. Cornwallis said, "THE SUB­JECT IS CLOSED. Let's talk about a western series on the French and Indian War." 
' members of the staff not only worked on the paper, but most had other jobs during the day as well as going to summer school. 
The Summer Observer was an ex­periment, something never done before here at Notre Dame. With a limited budget and very limited staff, Fr~ Graver, our revered Editor-in-Chief decided that he would make it work. Did he? I guess only you, the readers can answer that question. But before you answer that stop a mim~te and give the entire situation a thought. 
The work that goes into a paper is im­mense. Ads have to be sold, ads have to be created, ideas for stories have to be generated, interviews must be done, stories have to be written, pictures have to be taken and developed, typing and headlines must be done, corrections and layout are im-
At-RIGHT 
HARR/9-SAY ll&tUJ 7lJ SAMOA?! THATSNOT IT's A ·CAP/{, THE tuHO's 7/{f. t£NNY, CAP'N! I ...HeY!-A SKII<T 5KJKT! LAVA-tAVA IJJHM's 816ST/Jf) UNa£ WK~ H&'s GOT 8./J. -!HAT's IT'S A IS THe ti/R!JN3?IJJITH JHE HIM A SKIRT 
portant and a great deal of computer work is integral to putting out a weekly newspaper. All this in one week, and all done in between work, summer school and maybe squeezing in an hour or two of sleep or social life where time will allow. • 
Despite these points, Fred stuck with it as did the rest of the staff, trying to produce the best newspaper possible. rn even be a little vain (St. Bernadette forgive me); each week we hoped for a little encouragement or at least somebody to say they enjoyed the paper and thought our work was worth the effort. That's all it took to make everybody stay with the job and raise the moral of the staff when the old clock on the wall creeped into the wee hours of the morning. 
Of course there were those who often gave us what we needed and I'm happy to thank them for their help and kind words and give them their share of credit for what success we may have had during the ten issues we put out. But while these kind words trickled in, so much criticism and warnings from above ,poured in that Fred would turn paranoid everytime he was asked "Are you the editor of the Summer Observer?" 
Let's take this as a lesson that we can all benefit from. Stop and think a minute and thank that guy, thank your parents, thank your girlfriend, yes, even thank your local Notre Dame Security Guard for the un­noticed work he is doing for you. 
This column is shorter than usual and I'd like to follow in the footsteps of my favorite columnist, Ann Landers. I'd like to leave the following space blank in tribute to a great staff, that somewhere went wrong. 


SAY.. UH..

l 
.. l&NNY­OH.. 31~

!AJO.N'T HE 
OH. 
fUHAT fJO 315 .. /T

,.,.ANO THINK~ 
YEAH? 
YOU/il!i/6H VARIES..

:1" !T.I YOU lOOK 
I 
IN AT?.. \ 



YOU B&T-J~! rr'S.. BUT 577/..1.•. TAK£A Hl5 «JH()t£ HeY! ITS A (3/(f)fAJ/N6, totXAT IAJOfJJ! 10RSOIS lOOKIT 
1JA6Y

1?16H7; MYGE5T. AIN77HAT TWITtJUN6! TH~! MUSCU..I/ 

Thursday, August 14, 1975 the observer 
7 



--------·~---­


er --­
Back to the Hiss c-ase 
~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii..................---------------------iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii IJa r r y wiIIs 
Alger Hiss has been reinstated at the Massachusetts bar, over the objections of the bar's own qualifying panel. I do not understand this. True, Hiss' old nemesis Richard Nixon, has fallen into disgrace -­and some people thought it a necessity, in opposing Nixon, to support Hiss. But that nexus was always illogical. 
It is true, as well, that Hiss has received the microfilms called "pumpkin papers" from the Justice Department, and pronounced them "duds." Who expected him to say anything else? Only two of the five films were used at the trial, and Hiss says the other three have either nothing on them or nothing that matters. Again, so what? Most spies collect junk, in the hope that a net cast broad enough will pick up the accidental gem. Nixon knows that now -­look at what the raids on the DNC and Dr. Fielding's office netted his plumbers and 
creeps. 
Hiss also says he was tried on the basis of all five films, since the first publicity mentioned the number five. That is a 
,







:SBUBI 
''ftu~­
CIJNT'I?ACT SORRY­/J!SPt/TES?.' rM NOT J HOIJJ CAN t&NN~ PtAYING z yO(/ ~ Y{)(/R£ tJVTI/.. I 
: HAV//-6 H&R£ (£{A FA/fl. .; aMI?ACT ON A IOfffl?! ~ PISPUTliS?/ SCHOLAR­-I SHIP... 
I 


I'M AN EIVGL.ISH 
MAJOR-IT 

needless insult to his jurors. The two tapes introduced in evidence had documents clearly typed on his typewriter. That convinced the jurors of his guilt. It also convinced a Stanford Law School team that went over the trial transcript--see Herbert Packer's report in the "Standford Law Refiew" and in his 1962 book for the Stand­ford Press. 
It also convinced Irving Younger, a professor of evidence analyzing the tran­script dispassionately in the current issue of "Commentary." 
Younger's aritcle reminds us that, even while Hiss seeks new evidence from the Justice Department, he has done nothing to explain such old evidence <entirely within his control over the years) as the troublesome rug Whittaker Chambers gave him. And he has presented new "evidence" like his own rigged typewriter--the subject of endless pages in his book --which is a.) irrelevant to the trial evidence and b.) unconvincing even if relevant. 
Take the matter of the rug. Hiss admitted receiving an expensive rug from the pen-
IJIHATG 164000 A fAIR A S&ASONl 

;{1),000?/
Off&!?, 816 
\
reU.AH?. . 
I 
\ 


7H6N lliERE'S  
IJ/&.1..,  TYPING~!  TYP//16  lilTS! IF  
Y&S,BUT  I R9JJJIR£ ALOT  PAP~R?!  'IOf/ CWW  
SOAR£  Of=TYPIN6~  HCW MfJCfl  H§AJ< MY  
OTHeR  FOR MY EJVGLISH  COtJUJ THAT  SW?e!Af<Y  
snJP/3NT5  &S54Y.5~ SE&...  COST?  CARRY ON...  
IWO..  I  

niless semi-stranger Whittaker Chambers 
as "part payment" on use of an apartment, 
but then called his former maid before the 
committee to say she saw the rug months 
earlier than the date when Chambers claims 
to have given it to him. It is hard for a maid 
to remember whether a rug entered a house 
eleven or twelve years ago--but Chambers 
had hard evidence of the four expensive 
rugs he bought with Communist money. He 
had his friends form Columbia days, the 
r~spected art hist?rian Meyer Schapiro, 
pick out the rugs m New York and send 
them to Washington. 
Hiss still had the rug in 1948. It would have been the easiest thing in the world for his lawyers to confront Schapiro with the rug when he testified. Ifit was not one of the rugs Schapiro bought, then Chambers would have been proved a liar by physical evidence, and his whole chronology of the friendshop with Hiss would have been thrown off. 
Yet Hiss did not confront Schapiro. His lawyers did not even ask him a single question They showed a reluctance to go mto tne rug matter, which is carried over into Hiss' book where Schapiro's ap­p~arance as a witness is never mentioned. 
This reluctance to produce a bit of favorable evidence puzzled even the Hiss sympathizer, Meyer Zeligs, in his ten­dentious book on the case. But he claims the defense must have feared the dealer who sold the rugs to Schapiro would commit perjury. Zeligs, too, omits any mention of Professor Schapiro's testimony --though he quotes him elsewhere with obvious respect when talking of his asquaintance with Chambers. Perjury or. the part of the rug merchant would have been useless unless Shapiro's testimony agreed with it. Since Schapiro is not the kind of man to commit perjury, his part in the rug transaction is never mentioned by Zeligs. 
This is only one of the four issues where Professor Younger finds the evidence clearly in favor of Chambers. Hiss may talk and talk of new evidence; but in all four points he has still failed to explain the old E:>vidence, that which rightly convicted him. 

buchwald 
Leaves of grass 


[cant.] 
The Commerce Department revealed last May that Americans spend $1.5 billion yearly on their lawns. The figure isn't hard to believe if you have a lawn. As a matter of fact, it's quite low. All you have to do is to buy a few feet of sod, some fertilizer, some grass seed, a hose and an electric lawn mower, and you've blown a million right there. 
No one is quite sure who was the first one to start the lawn 

competition in America. It is rumored that it was a Pilgrim named 
Sam Snodgrass who was responsible for the whole thing. 
One morning the Pilgrims got up and 'round Sam out front 
sprinkling seeds on the ground. "What art thou doing, Sam?" his neighbors asked. "Planting grass." "But why? Canst thou eat it?" "No, neighbor, but it will give me something to cut in the sum­
mertime." 
The Pilgrim men, who rarely laughed, made merry of Sam. But when spring came and Sam's lawn started to grow, the wives of the other Pilgrims became very upset. 
"Look thou at Brother Snodgrass' lawn," they said to their husbands. "It is verily a shame that we have nothing but dirt in front of our houses." 

The other Pilgrim men were sore as hell, but there wasn't much they could do about it. So they all started planting grass in front of their houses. Pretty soon they were so busy working on their lawns they forgot to plant any crops, so when winter came they almost starved to death. 
But this did not dismay the Pilgrim wives. When spring came, 
they insisted that their husbands work on their lawns again. "Look thou at Sam with nary a weed in his yard," they grumbled. "Women," the husband cried, "we must plant crops instead." "Better to starve," the women replied, "than to have an unkempt 

lawn." 
And so the next winter all the Pilgrims died. But the tradition of having a neat lawn lived on in the New World, and America became a great nation because the wives of its men always thought the grass was greener on the other side of the hedge. 
Today a man is judged by the lawn he keeps. If it is trim and green and looks like a carpet, he is a loyal American. If it ~rows tall, has weeds and straggles over the sidewalk, he is a Communist. 
And so once again this summer, from the Atlantic to the PP-cific, American men, egged on by their wives, were toiling in their front yards, devoting their strength, their lives and their waking moments, not to mention $1.5 billion a year, to keep up with thei• neighbors' lawns. 
The Pilgrims started it, but where will it all,end'? Sod only knows. 

-·· 
.'\ 
•, ... -to;·-"W';• ' .. .._ .~ ~ .-.... _.,#. __ , ...._ ........ _ ..._ ·-· ... 
, 
the observer Thursday, August 14, 1975 



\ 
\ 

j 
) 
) 


0 r.I e n tat.I 0 n pIa n n e d 
l 
Indiana University at South Bend fresh­men and their parents have been invited to a "Get Acquainted Day" program on the IUSB campus at 1:30 p.m. Sunday, Aug. 17. The program will launch IUSB's freshman orientation week, which runs from Aug. 18 
through 22.
\ 
''i 

Chancellor Lester M. Wolfson will welcome the new students and their families during the Sunday program in the Northside West little theatre. Also on the program will be Dr. Robert A. Dubick. IUSB dean of student services, and Jerry Works president of the IUSB Student Association: 
Following the brief program, students anti parents will be given tours of the campus and have an opportunity to meet with ad­ministrative and faculty members. Student organizations will have representatives on hand to acquaint the freshmen with campus groups and activities. 
IUSB appointment of two editors upheld 
On August 9, .a decision by the Student Supreme Court upheld the IUSB's Publication Board appointments of Judy Smith and Carla Hoffman, editors of the Pr~faceand Analecta respectively. 
The case of the Ad Hoc Committee for Constitutional Government consisting of Elmo Gonzalez and Mary Ellen Hegedus vs. the Publication Board stems from the appoi~tments of Smith and Hoffman in May to thetr present positions. It was argued by the plaintiff, Gonzalez, that the an­pointments of Smith and Hoffman were unconstitutional because they did not have 
five votes for reappointment. The Publication Board argued that the editors were not reappointed but appointed and did not need five votes, only three votes as stated in the Constitution. In the July 31 issue of the Observer, the case was ex­plained in depth. 
The ruling statement was read by Chief Justice Judy Newton as follows: 
Point one: The Court agrees that the proper definition of the term academic year if from one week prior to registration
through commencement. 
Point two: The Court finds that any action 
replacing an Editor-In-Chief constitutes a 
valid appointment of the positions involved. 
Point three: The Court finds the intend of 
Article IV, Section V, Paragraph E, is that a reappointment for a second academic year requires a unamimous vote. But, not necessarily an absolute number of five. Therefore, the Court unanimously rules the 
Following this there will be a band and reappointments of Judy Smith and ~.aria refreshments for the students and their Hoffman Editors-In-Chief of the .Preface parents. The entertainment will be and Analecta respectively are valid·and provided by the Student Association .legal." 
Vmce Phtlhps, lawyer for the defendent, b~ga~ the case asking the Court for three dtsmtss~ls b~for~ the hearing had begun. 
The ftrst dtsmtssal was asked for on the 

. . .··.. . ~ :··.y ...: 
. ·~ . ~-~· . 
• fl'' ':-...... ; ~ 
• or"4 :..• 
'I 

IUSB receives $9,500 
A research grant of $9,500 has' University at South Bend. 
! 
r •, been awarded by the Indiana State The Penn-Harris-Madison Board of Vocational and Technical School Corp. is the mnding agenf Education to the Career Resource! fnr the grant. ­Center to pursue development work on an interest-test for per­sons with career-education in-Dudle-y said the tests are 
terests. designed for use by students at the The proQOsed test will differ junior-high level , through 
from traditional tests by usin~ adulthood. l They will have 
pictures of people at work in place special relevance for Indiana's 
of asking questions about people at vocational schools, he said. The 
work, according to Dr. Gerald 0. project has a completion date of 
Dudley, director of the Career .Tune 30, 11976. ' 
Resource Center and associate 
professor education at Indiana
~ 
\ 
' ' 

Employment workshop set for August 12 
On Tuesday, August 12, at IUSB in Nor­thside Hall, the Indiana State Employees Association USEA) in conjunction with Indiana University School of Public and Environmental Mfairs and the Indiana Higher Education Telecommunications system sponsored an informative workshop on many issues dealing with employment. 
Some of the questions discussed and answered were: What is collective bargaining? Why should employees organize? What about job security? 
grounds that the Ad Hoc Committee was not an organization of IUSB. The Court said that this did not matter. It is a con­stitutional right for any student or students 
. to bring suit before the Court. 

The second dismissal was based on the argument that no harm was shown in the brief of the Ad Hoc Committee and to bring suit a person or persons must show that harm or damage has been done to the plaintiff by the defendent. The Court decided that this did not enter into the case. 
The third dismissal was asked for because the Ad Hoc Committee based their com­plaint against two Editors-In-Chief and not a third, Becky Balentine, who also was elected in the same manner as Smith and Hoffman. The Court said that they would take this under advisement, but that the case would be heard. 
Gonzalez started his argument on 'he basis of interpretation of the Student Con-situational legality of the Student 
Publication Board reappointing an editor when the constitution says that they must have five votes. He further said the Publication Board reappointed the editors after April which was not the way it should have been done. Phillips said that he was interpreting the I ~onstitution and the time factor and the mtent of the Publications Board. Phillips further stated the two editors in question did not vote, therefore, the Board could only have_ t~ree. members. Phtlhps fmal argument stated that Smith and Hoffman were not reappointed but appoin~e?. He explained that the editors were fllhng out vacancies last Spring and 1 were not appointed in December for a full 
academic term.I In Gonzalez' summary, he said that Smith I and Hoffman were reappointments and 'were unconstitutional. 
The program was carried live via closed­circuit television to nine locations throughout the state including IUSB. 
The two-way communications systt.. allowed participants at IUSB to phone questions to the . panel of experts which included Dr. Richard Rubin, IU professor of Labor Relations; ISEA executive director Charles F. Eble; and staff attorney to I SEA, AnnRybolt. 

-~


apinian 
Friendship goes a long way_ 
iiiiiiiFiiiriiiieiiiniidiishiiiiiiipiiiigiioeiisiiiiiaiiiiloiiniigiiiiiwiiiaiiyii.iiiiiiiiBiiieiiiciiiaiiiuiiiseiiiiiithiieiiriieiiwiiiiiiaiisiiniioiimiiiioiiniieyiiiileiifiitiiiiiiniiaiiniiyiiwiiaiiyiiiiiioiiniitihieiliUiSiBiiiiiipiaigiesi.iiii1i'hiieiiiiioifithieiiitiin:'iiei.iiliihiiopiieiiiiiniitiihiiieiiifiiiutiiriieiisiomiiiiie, !~v~on ~~~'i!~a~ 
Notre Dame and IUSB got the PREFACE'S budget and graphic picturing shaking of the thmgsi have mentioned· ·orne of the PREFACE. The student<; to~ether · and made a great because Student .Association did hands in friendship_.,houldbe kept in true·. l would have been able to !hen came to . t th · friendship. The.Observer volun-not deem it necessary to a paper in everyone's memory as the publish the PREFACE this association of tahepprtecla e . ·~ leered to let IUSB have space for the summer, a siuation existecH beginning of an alliance of the summe th f · d h" b wo umver­news and features. In return, the where IUSB would not a have a schools-not just in journalism but iusB a~d Net rlen ~ IP etween sitites. It seems studentsand Observer would be able to get apaer. But the Observer and Fred in other areas as well. ' may have n~::r h arned · faculty have enjoyed 1having a more advertising becuase the Graver, summereditor, came to Our respective universities are ground f f · a~pene · The paper for the summer. The en­
0

universities combined would give IUSB's rescue. located in the same area. laid It -~[ b rlend~h 1t ha~ been thusiasim proves the need for 
the advertisers more range of Therefore, I believe that a lot of b th WI e up to u ur~dltors of summer issues of a paper at IUSB 
people. Plus, the advertisers could things can be accomplished a~ve pafce~s~0 dkee~/hhe ~riendship IUSB students and faculty want t~ 
use coupons, etc., for both through the cooperation of both this · a nf~ IS e a paper know what is happening on the 
universities. This concept of school systems, although Notre behi~~~h~er, ~ would still be campust'"ven if they areonly IUSB 
friendship could go farther in the Dame is a private school and IUSB Notre Dam sc~n~ m many way~. students during the summer. 
future is a state school. IUSB st de s u ents _now realize Another sincere thanks to 
I got a phone call from Graver in What 1 had in mind was a con-liUSB stu~e~~st\~~ee~~nand that Gra~er and t-'s staff for making it 
IUSB is no longer "River early March. I was delighted at sortium between IUSB and Notre sameinterest as the d Y of the pos~Ible for IUSB to have a paper 
High'.We are noticed as a growing the prospect of ioining forces with Dame or off-campus housing for Y 0 durmg the summer. Good luck to 
university, and Notre Dame is N·otre Dame's paper . The all students and other possiblities. I have had a lot of compliments all the staff of the Observer for the 
sayingwhy not help a university at unionhas been a success, and I Changes, no doubt, would have to from IUSB students on having the upcoming fall. 
a time of need and help ourselves personally want to thank all of the made at both universites, but we Observer with the IUSB pages at Peace and Love 
at the same time. staff at the Observerwho helped-in live in a nation that is changing all IUSB. The first couple of weeks Judy Smith 
saw students wondering why the Preface editor 
Mobile home show hits N:D 
tapes to new designs in toilet seats. 
home and recreational vehicle 

The exhibitors pull no punches
industries in Indiana and 

when it comes to attracting
nationwide. 

by Fred Graver passers-by, using miniature golf Editor-in-Chief set-ups, aquariums, a caged lion
Innovations at the Show 

and the obligatory pretty gitls. Settling on more than 27 acres of Many of the exhibits have their
This year, hundreds of in­

exhibition space, the 21st Annual salesmen dressed alike, which is
novations in the '76line of products

Midwest Mobil -Modular and bound to attract customers.
are being displayed at the show. 

Recreational Vehicle Show has Perhaps one of the more bizarre
Most of the innovations have to do 

come to the Notre Dame campus. sidelights is the exhibit dedicated
with the improvement of mobile 

The show brings together hundreds to products which the mobile home 
and modular housing as it becomes 

of exhibitors in the manufactured more of a permanent residence, as dealer can use to drum up homes industry, in what the show business. This exhibitor is selling 
opposed to a vehicle for traveling. 

brochure claims is "the world's a variety of wares, all of which
One corporation has introduced 

greatest trade show." they will emboss with the name of
into their travel trailer a slide-out 

a dealer, salesman, or whatever.
bay room which gives the trailer 

History of the Show No stone has remained unturned in 
the look of a conventional home 

the search for snappy give-aways
from the outside. Inside, the area 

The first Indiana Mobil Home here. The} exhibit flags, watches, 
is used for dining and comes 

Association show was held in 1955 matchbooks, keychains and even a
complete with a padded window 

in Elkhart, Indiana. Through the clear plastic toilet seat with more
seat. 

years, the show has gathered than ten dollars in change frozen
The innevations in van design

visitors from as far away as into the plastic. The exhibitor is
and van • conversion are in­

Hawaii and the attendance figures proud to display the anti-scratch-·
numerable, as this side of the in­

for the show have stunned those anti-crack qualities of the seat for
dustry is just beginning to 

who have watched its growth. blossom. has on passers-by.
One company

Stated in the goals of the IMHA Some of the exhibitors are not
display a van which features a high

show is the idea of promoting the too related to the industry, as with
roof with a triple arch separating a 

general welfare of the mobile and the man demonstrating a product
bedroom in the rear from a lounge

modular housing industry by which, when wiped upon
area up front that includes a 

creating a receptive atmosphere eyeglasses, will eliminate
contour couch, ice box, sink, bar 

for their gathering. Hopefully, steaming and freezing. "Great for
and swivel seats. The manufac­

through this atmosphere, the glasses, cameras and rifle
turers call this "an apartment on 

participants can work together to scopes," he tells his customers.
wheels." 

increase the quality and efficiency Outside the ACC, not only of their products and services. One the coca -cola vendors are making of the first steps taken in this money; souvenir stan.ds abound.
While many of the items being

direction was the formation of the One stand displays a variety of flag 
displayed at the show have a 




KEN'S DEN 

Hairstyling 
-Award winning stylists 
-Uniqu~ atmosphere 
-Roffler Styl~ing and Products 
Across from J00 Center (Lincolnway Westi in Mishawaka 
PHONE 255·6500 Appointments preferred 

Recreational Vehicle Manufac­and t-shirt decals, many of which 1: • • · • · • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ..... • • • • • • • • • .~. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • · • • • • • • • • · • • 
technical nature which would lo •
turer's Test Caravan in July of feature extensive skunk, sexual •
elude the general public, there are • •• 
1963. That year, the families of 27 and motorcycle imagery, not to ,.• •• 
many innovations at the show 

recreational vehicle manufac­mention the drug references. This : 
•
which are of interest to anyone who 24 H • •
turers, numbering 119 people, took stand attracts its customers by •
has ever taken to the road no • 
part in an eight day camping trip ' playing loud rock and roll music 0(/ •
matter what their vehicle. Among ..• 
to Canada. For many of the from speakers atop the stand.
the innovations is one new feature 

manufacturers, this was their first in displaying the products. This .;p •chance to use their product "in the year's show features a three-acre Coming Attractions 0 U' • . •field." 
display constructed to exhibit J & J GRILL • 
Through the activities of the The show opens its doors to the •
mobile and modular homes in a \ • 
•
IMHA, the industry has attempted public on Saturday and Sunday, I p •
"mini-village" setting. The village . 
to keep pace with the needs of the from noon till 7:00 P.M. But the .•
is complete with. trees, paved 

•
public as it continues to turn walkways and street lights. It real show is not open to the public, M 327 N. MICHIGAN • toward what the industry sees as that which features all-star talent • I • 
features 30 mobile and modular • 
"an increased interest in in an arena staff show. The Show •
home units by 13 'different • 
manufactured homes and admission is by badge only, open to •• u N
manufacturers. The display area 

•
recreational vehicles as a was designed by a professional all Industry personnel attending •• 11am-11pm lifestyle." The IMHA anticipates architect and includes full natural the show. It features, live, C. Dink •• s B •that in the future, the industry will Freeman, the Musical Wades and .•
landscaping -all on what is a 

A •
grow and prosper as more and ~Soccer field during the school year. The Edwardians. Also open to I Daily Dinner Specials .• 
more families discover what they Dealers is a seminar held on •
L •
call "the ease, comfort and Sidelights of the Industry Wednesday and -Thursday nights, c only $1.49 .. economy that is associated with by Robert Owen Carr, on "How to this new style of life for Walking along rows of exhibits Take Home a Net Profit in 1975." /L
""-> .
tomorrow." The Association is Mr. Carr is one of America's most
inside the ACC, one can view every ••
D '{ s

dedicated to promoting and im­sidelight of the Manufactured successful lecturers in the field of A ••proving the qtobile and modular telling people how.to be successful. •
Homes Industry, from eight-track • 
~~ 




.. 
I 

1.( ( 
~ l . 
.·, 

(\ 
{ ', 
( ·' 

10 the observer Thursday, August 14, 1975 \ 
Brother Benesh explains new 




Student Activities set up 
hv Andy Praschak practice oi past years which called Associate Editor 
for the director of Student Ac­Brother John Benesh, CSC, tivities to handle all rusiness ~·xplained yesterday the new related to the office. 
r. ·ocess by which the Office .of S1. tdent Activities will be run for the 1975-76 school year at the Brother Benesh will be the new 
University of Notre Dame. The director of Student Activities but new set up will rP.place the past will be heading a six man team 
........... .. ............... ...·--·.....................................
·~~·· 

:• FOR 

YOUR BACK 
PACKING ,r~_ NEEDS
.L. 
233-8383 
SIIRRA SPORTS 
2216 MIAMI 
SOUTH BEND, IN 

THIS WEEKEND 
AT 
NICKlE'S 
of BEER $2.QQ
PITCHER 
only 

Every WED., FRI., & SAT. From 10:00 p.m. to 2:00a.m. 
-NO COVER­-NO INCREASE IN PRICE­FREE PARKING -A&P LOT 
928 N. EDDY, S.B. 
(Just a Few Blocks South of ND) 
· 

which will be dividing the responsibilities of the director. "There was just too much work for one person to handle," noted Benesh. The office of Student Activities has been headed most recently by Fr. Dave Schlaver, who has taken time off from to Notre Dame to further his studies at Michigan State University . 
"I think it is a great compliment to Fr. Schlaver that we needed six men to do the work he used to do virtually by himself," Benesh added. He noted that he was amazed by the effort and en­thusiasm with which Fr. Schlaver executed his job. 
According to Benesh, adding more people to the office will enable them to expand operations 

student 
919-B College Square 
RECORDS  Mishawaka, Indiana  
Phone 255-0266  tacross front  ~own  & Country)  
"Your  Seven-Day-A.-Week  Music Store"  

-----BOOGIE RECORDs·-----BOOGIE RECORDs~ 
and provide more services to the students. Other members of the new committee include Fr. Bill Matthews, Brother Charles McBride, Fr. Tom Stella, Tom Reid and John Reid. 
The work Brother Benesh hopes to be doing includes coordinating the staff, concentrating on further LaFortune renovations, working with the student government and student union and helping out the musical groups at Notre Dame (Notre Dame bands, glee club, etc.) 
Fr. Matthews, who will be working full time, will be responsible mostly for the clubs and organizations on campus as well as helping to coordinate the social events on campus. "The main problem here has been that 
Q) 
n
....
-· 
< 
~~~~ 
,.,
... 
n 0 
"' 
"' ~ 
I I I I 

too many activ.ities are schedulea to conflict with other events and nobody profits from this situation," Benesh said. He added 
that the  new  method will  be  to  
schedule  the  events  at  times  
convenient  to  the  entire  student  
body.  

John Reid is a graduate student and will be working part time with the office of Student Activities. His responsibilities will include working with the Notre Dame cheerleaders, Junior and Senior class and the newly formed Black Cultural Arts Center. 
Fr. Stella will continue in his position as director of Volunteer Services and will have as his assistant, Tom Reid who will be working part time with him. "I hope that with two people working, it will stir up even more interest among the students than before," said Benesh. Tom Reid will also be working closely with the World Hunger Coalition which is relatively new here at the University. 
Brother McBride will be associated with student publications at Notre Dame. This includes the Juggler, the Dome, The Scholastic, The Observer and also WSND radio station. "He will be a good man for the job because he has had previous experience with many of these organizations," Benesh said. 
Benesh pointed out that the staff has already met a few times last spring and this summer. "It seems that each of us has a fairly good understanding of what jobs we will be doing, he added. 
Brother Benesh commentea that he can see a slight difficulty during the first few weeks of the school year. "It may be a slight problem getting the students acquainted with the staff and exactly who they should see for what services," he said. . But he added that this problem will rectify itself in time. 
"In the brief period of time I have spent with Fr. Dave, I have been very impressed with all the work and enthusiasm he put forth trying to help the students. It gives me a good feeling to come into an office that has been of so much service and I want to continue to supply as much help and assistance to students at Notre Dame," said Brother Benesh. 
MOTORCYCLE OWNERS 
CHECK THESE RATES! 
576 ·p•.. ""'"
126-200cc 
h•lf C:•v•.•·;,;. 
SA Pe< y...,r~201-360cc o:.5 full Co-.·•·l\,!t: 
s1 y

Per l'O'
361-SOOcc 11 full Cov~r~w S145 p;,. FuH
501-750cc Year Cov"r '-'(;' S185 
Per Full

751-1000cc Ytoor Covt·rQg• 
p.,. Ful•

0VIr 1OOOcc M.£ 28 Year Co-..f'rogt 
Abov,> rotes ore based on new b•kes, 
rores for bikes over I t! mo. old 
·· nplete protection by 
PETE CLARK 
INSURANCE AG[NCY11 04 IIishawaka AvL br fan~ers lkt Ph. 289-7213 
Whoooo should become a nightowl in Chicago I' 
by Bob Kissel 
country western from pickin' 

Sportswriters as a lot are a bluegrass to a bit of off-key strange bunch. If you stop to crooning by Vassar himself. think about their plight, one of 
covering sports--that wonderful world of armchair fantasy, run­ning back to the newsroom to work on the story, and going to press 'freebies', it all sounds a bit boring­-and stagnating after a while. 
Now being a sportswriter m Chicago, a student one somewhat ungainfully employed during the weekdays, getting to all the historic events like All-Star football games or Cub comedies can be a bit of a problem. 
So what does one verbal con artist (sportswriter) do to relieve the mounting tensions, those tensions coming from not being able to cheer on my favorite sports gladiator <whomevever or whatever that may be)? 
Well one choice may be to stay home and watch something good on TV... but I might have an awful long wait. Another choice, my designated choice at that, is to become a night owl amongst the city's varied selection of night­clubs, coffeehouses and discos featuring 'ive P.ntertainment. 
If it's variety of listening you're after, Chicago is the place. A few of my nights out on the town have included everything from jazz to country western to blues and all the way back to classical. 
A mere two and a half bucks gets begins tv burn. When Hound Dog you into suburban Evanston's hip plays ~!ide. why .some.times you Amazingrace coffeehouse. About think the world 1s gomg to en­three weeks ago I went to d ... maybe because ~v~rybody is .s~ Amazingrace to listen to one of exausted from dancm and swaym 
America's standards of excellence 
in the country western genre, 
Vassar Clements. 

To the unenlightened, Vassar looks like any normal image of what a truck driver should. He looks the same even to people who have seen him before, but put that age-worn fiddle in his hands ... 
Vassar and his band, complete with very capable backup people on pedal steel, drums, and bass, put on an amazing, sometimes stirring two hour show en­compassing the full spectrum of 
BARLO PLAYHOUSE 
"FANTASTIKS" July & August 
AT TINKERS DAM MICHIGAN CITY, INDIANA 
RESERV. (219) 879-7373 
.,. -$ 
--... 
The band played many of their more known numbers such as Kissimmee Kid, Vassar's Boogie, and Hand Picked. Probably the thrill of the set came when Vassar brought on stage his friend from Chicago, Jethro Burns on man­dolin. 
Burns provided both tight ex­changes with Vassar on fiddle, as well as a bit of humor, a sharp contrast to Clements' low-key 
stage presence. Jethro Burns may have been able to pick away on his tiny mandolin, but Vassar laid out 

licks on the fiddle that not one , "Beatrice et Benedict", Nuits 
member of the band could touch. 
f<'rom the heart of the south with Vassar, next stop along this madcap journey is sweet home Chicago for some native blues, as interpreted by the venerable Hound Dog Taylor and the Houserockers. 
Talk about a musician who loves to play, the night I listened to Hound Dog, he and his band, Ted Harvey on drums and Brewer Philipps on second guitar, played from 10 til 4 in the morning, taking twenty minuet breaks every two 
hours. And Hound Dog is over 65, a senior citizen no less! 
What Hound Dog lacks in sub­tlety, he amply compensates with raw energy. When the man starts to let himself loose on that vintage, beatup Japanese guitar, the boogie train begins to roll. 
Hound Dog's theme is; we're here to have fun and we want you to. When that big toothy smile starts a , i.. nin', the slide guitar 
to the tune. 
Personally, if I had to pick one highlight of the show, played in a small bar on the North side of the city, it was a tribute by Hound Dog to whom he called "the greatest slide player", Elmore James. After a few words of thanks <Elmore died in 1961), the band exploded with a long version of the James' classic "Dust My Broom". That was intense. 
From the smoke, spilled beer, 

THROWING A PARTY?? 
HELPING YOU IS OUR BUSINESS 
5 OF THE HA·NDIEST SPOTS IN TOWN 
1. HANDY SPOT PARTY SHOPPE 
1426 Mishawaka Ave. 
TY SHOPPE
2.. N. IRONWOOD PAR
172 
.5 ~. Ironwood 

• WINES  • GOURMET  FOODS  
• LIQUORS  • PARTY SUPPLIES  
• COLD  BEER  
~1 S. Michigan at Ireland 


"If it's available, we will get it for you." 
FREE DELIVERY 287-7744 

and driving energy of the blues, let us take a quick repose for easy listening in a nice park in a quiet town in Chicago's north suburbs. But not to listen to some rinky-dink dance group, but the Chicago Symphony Orchestra < CSO). 
The Symphony plays regularly at the Ravinia Festival, a summer long extravaganza of classical, jazz, pop, theatre, and ballet bookings. CSO plays at this park on 30 dates, offering something for every listener. 
My travels have brought me to the park twice this summer, for an all Berlioz program (Overture to 
d'ete, and Symphonie Fan­tastique) and also a mixed program featuring works of Stravinsky, Schaumann, Beethoven, and Prokofieff. 
The park has a very nice pavilion for those who like to sit in seats and watch the orchestra (and who have the money to pay a sawbuck per seat), but more importantly there are acres of general admission "lawn seats", for only three bills. And the sound system is finally getting to the point of respec­tability. 
There are not too many better ways of spending a lazy summer night than at Ravinia, sitting on a blanket, sipping wine, and being almost overwhelmed by the beautiful sounds from Chicago's own symphony. If the next world is anything like this, I'm ready to go, real soon. 
Other bars and other groups should be included here, but you know the old space problem ... so if you're bored in South Bend, take the two hour drive to Chicago for some fine listening, regardless of what your pleasure may be 
And remember if you look hard enough, low prices for high quality music are all over. 
House Painting 
DOES YOUR HOME 
NEED PAINTING? 
EXPERIENCED 
PAINTERS (TWO N.D. 
GRADUATES) WILL 
PAINT INTERIOR­
EXTERIOR 
VERY REASONABLE!! 
CALL 234-1889 For Free 
Estimate 
3. ROSELAND PARTY SHOPPE 
113 DixieWay N. 
•• GOLDEN FLASK PARTY SHOPPE
413 Hickory Rd. at McKinley
S. PARTY SHOPPE SOUTH 
OF SOUTH BEND 

Tltursd_ay, August 14, 1975 
the observer 1 1 
THE POSTER -PLACE 

100 1lx17 POSTERS only $10.00 


~--------------------------,
I WE SERVICE MOBILE HOMES I 
INSTANT CREDIT 

1 I DICK'S 1S1 
I J ~ ~~~~~~ 
1 E CORBY Oil Motor 
· Club

7
1 I 11~~RECKER & 
• / _, ez' ROAD SERVICE 
.. 
I MOTOR TUNE-UP..
I BRAKESERVICE ·-=...,:-=
WHEEL --DIAL

I 
.ALIGNMENT 
234_0707

I Otck ICrulc ·Own,.,
1 1102 So. fiend Ave. 
specials.)'--------------------------··: !  
'  I  
I  
VEGETARIAN??  
WE OFFER A FULL LINE OF  
VEGETARIAN FOODS, ALSO A LARGE VARIETY OF HEALTH  'j•l .; '  
FOODS INCLUDING NON-MEAT  
PROTEINS. VISIT THE:  
HOUSE  OF  
SOMETHING  
BETTER  
10% DISCOUNT ON ALL VITAMINS AND  
FOOD SUPPLEMENTS THIS WEEK WITH  
UNIVERSITY I D.  
2117-5310  
1602 S.  MJCHIGAN ST. S.B.  ~.  

South Bend, -Ind .f6617 (Discounts not applicable to 1

I 
~======~~==============~ 
CLASSIFIED FIDS 
Mobile Home 1 Mechanic on 

I 
Duty AbiCK'S i 
1 I 
10 PERCENT DISCOUNT I 
TO N.D. AND I.U. I 
s T lJ D E N T s A N D ~ 
FACULTY. 
I 
"0'\.-S.\T. lam-ttpm _: Sl'"'' 9 am 9pm I 
• '"· · -1 
FOR SALE MAN'S 10-speed bike. 26", good shape. $75 or best offer. Call after noon. 272-7857 
NOTICES 

ACCURATE, FAST typing. $.50 a page l (double spaced) .. Call Mrs. Donoho 
232-0746 

INTERESTED IN no-frills low cost jet travel to Europe, Africa, Middle East, Far Eas~ at minimum cost, maximum flexibility and minimum hassle? For information call Educational Flights toll-free (800) 223-5569. 
FOR RENT 

2 ROOMS, $40 per month, girls. Air cond. 7579 
WANTED 
RIDE TO new Jersey. Near Clark, Elizabeth, Newark. Will share SS and driving. Want to leave anytime after Thur. the 7th. 
234-1889 
HOUSEMATE WANTED: Pref. a grad. student or senior to share house. Own bedroom, close to campus. Male or female.(Pret. temale). 1nexpensive rent. C"'!I af; l.t' 7 p.m. 
234-1889 
PERSONALS 
LOST: ·ONE blonde female, great figt•r,, intelligent, great personality. Last seen in June around NO campus and the Cozy Cedar. If found, please contact 
234-1889 
i 
i 

.. 
• 
... 

Thursday, August 14, 1975
12 the observer 

apinian 

Where, oh where have the AYOP's gone? 


To think that only a week ago, it only because it brought in a lot of that it wasn't one of the influencing 
half-time Let's say that we tellectual life of Notre Dame any member of the Notre Dame money, could thev? factors when the idea to host the really do like the Irish Guard and because they reflect the grass
community could walk out into the So let's give the university the convention originated. 
we didn't mean to hurt their roots of mediocrity which hasquad and be greeted by the sight of benefit of the doubt and say that That's fine. There are still feelings and insult them by always been a part of life, and just hundreds of sequin covered, the twirlers were brought here for plenty of other reasons to hold a proposing such an because they are a big part of thepubescent girls tossing their various .other idealistic reasons. Twirler Convention. Sports has ·outra~eous : idea. Since the American scene does not meanbatons gaily into the bright, First of all, recruitment is a very always been a big part of the athletic aspect of twirling is ruled that they belong at a universitysummer air. Cardinals perched in valid motive. Attracting over 4000 university. Perhaps we can finally out and recruitment seems which is supposed to stand forthe trees by LaFortune chirped future college students to the begin to compete with Purdue's dubious, we must search for still higher learning and which is alsomournfully at the departure of the campus would certainly increase Golden Gir. After all, she's always another motivation .. supposed to reflect a certainglittering wood nymphs, as applications. In one to ten years, stolen the half-time show during National recognition may have amount of class. To me, there isstudents, secretaries and mem­all these people will be trying to get our bouts with the Boilermakers. 
been considered by the organizers something nauseating about young bers of both the yard crew and the into school, and where will they We could abolish the Irish Guard of this scheme. A media event ~iris frolicking around in tight,faculty shook their heads and sadly apply first? Why, Notre Dame, of and form a high-powered front line almost as big as the Ford ap­httle pants with their cheekslamented the exit of the charming course. And after they are ac­called "The Domettes". They pearance could certainly do the showing. This is not a jevenilecreatures. What did the presence cepted, will they spin their way could do presicion twirling and university no harm. Schools from Playboy Club we are running here. 
of these fluffy, little bunnies through Freshman Seminar? Will wear sequin covered mini-kilts. 
Harvard to Stanford would hear Notre Dame is no place for four­contribute to f. Notre Dame the little Barbie Dolls toss their Our twirlers could compete about the convention and be green teen year old bunnies. The lack ofbesides money'? Not wishing to be way through Organic Chemistry, nationally and we could have with envy because they hadn't dignity brought about by thiscynical, I submit that there must Metallurgical Engineering and another sport to be Number One thought of it first. convention was regretable and
have been something other than Finnegans Wake? I can hardly in. Then, instead of calling an easy But is that what would really their presence was not only cheap, 
monetary value to their joyful visit forsee anything like that. But the course "jock", we could call it "a happen? Is the national noteriety but created a mood of cynicismhere. recruitment of women might also real twirl..' Perhaps this plan is a of a Baton Twirling Convention a ·and resentment. It was only tooIn the aftermath of their in­help our painstaking steps towards bit unrealistic. The Irish Guard is good thing to have? Sure, they obvious that their only purposevasion, let us try to reconstruct coeducation. So far, the road has an important part of the football represent a large facet of here was to pull in big bucks for the some possible motivations the been rough and rocky, but are a lot tradition here and they might be American culture and they cer­university, and that in itself isuniversity might have had in mind of twirling bunnies really going to highly offended if they were tainly are everywhere. But topless degrading. The Twirlers Con­when it invited the twirlers here on give coeducation the boost it squeezed out by a few glittering dancers are American, and they vention has raised an importantthat fateful day five years ago. needs'? So far, recruitment seems cuties. So let's say we don't want are everywhere, too. This does not question that Notre Dame mustAfter all, they could not have done like a complete farce. So let's say to compete with Purdue's golden 

RACING EVERY TUESDAY NIGHT 
SOUTH BEND MOTOR SPEEDWAY Time trial at 7:00 p.m. Race at 8:30 p.m. 
Track located 3 miles west of 
So. Bend on Western Ave. 

mean we should host their con­deal with immediately. Is all that girl. Let's say we don't want vention at our university. The money really worth all that precision twirlin~ at twirlers did not enhance the in-degredation? 
Grant awarded to St. Mary by the Kresge Foundation 

wants to respond to the interests of the many students involved in






r---s-riiiH-UNTiNG-FOR-AN---1 
A grant of $50,000 has been physical education activities and awarded by The Kresge Foun­recreation. dation to Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana, toward the 
"We welcome the challenge
IAPARTMENT FOR NEXT YEAR? I 
construction of a physical 

offered by this generous and
education-recreation facility. The 

timely grant and intend to expand
I I 
grant funds will be remitted when 

our efforts to seek additional funds 
I CAMPUS VIEW ONE AND TWO I the school has raised the balance of 
for this facility."
the money needed for the new

I BEDROOM FURNISHED APARTMENTS I building.I I 
The Kresge Foundation, The college's Board of Regents established in 1924 by Sebastian S. endorsed the building project in Kresge, is a private trustee cor­October of 1974. According to John poration organized under the laws 
I LOOK WHAT WE I 
M. Duggan, president of Saint of the State of Michigan. Its stated, Mary's, the new recreation facility purpose is to promote the well­
I HAVE TO OFFER: I 
is needed to replace the outmoded being of mankind, its Trustees areI~ I gymnasium built in 1892. "The authorized to expend Foundation purpose of the original building," funds to this end. The Foundation
I~ ~ I 
Duggan points out, "was to ac­is not associated or affiliated with commodate indoor events such as ano other corporation orI * 2 TENNIS COURTS I organization.
Commencement. The college now

I (to be completed this summer) I 
I * INDOOR SWIMMING POOL II * COMMUNITY BUILDING I
I (complete with pool tables and pinball machine) I 
1 * DEAD-BOLT LOCKS 1 I * EXCELLENT SECURITY I 
I * BASKETBALL COURT .. * SHAG CARPETING I 
I * 2 BATHS IN THE 2 -BEDROOM * DISHWASHERS I
I APTS. I 
. -•. * PRIVACY I 
r I * SOUND CONDITIONED 
;' 

I * REGULAR SOCIAL ACTIVITIES * LAUNDRY FACILITIES I
INOW RENTING FOR SUMMER AND FALL SEMESTER I 1 ('75 -'76 SCHOOL YEAR) 1 
.r. 

I FOR RENTAL INFORMATION CALL 272-1441 I 

I I I CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS I


L-----------------------~ 




' 
-· 




