House panel kills drinking bill 
Committee Chairman Dovis decides not to hold vote 
by K~thy Mills He continued, "The problem was that the chairman McLaughlin admitted, "We imagine itiwould be assigned tothe Staff Reporter decided not to put it up for vote. It's in his power. In knew we were going to have Judiciary Committee or to some effect. he killed it. If there had been a vote, I'm pretty problems with that committee · other committee. It would have House Bill 1818, which would lower the drinking age sure it would have passed," McLaughlin stated. because he was so much against been just tremendous if it was 
in Indiana to 18 years of age, was killed yesterday . the bill. There was a lot of talk--he assigned there in the first place,when the chairman of the House Public Policy Com­Support from governor 
, mayletitout,hemaynotletitout. but it wasn't," McLaughlin

mittee. Chester F. Dovis, decided not to hold a vote on But after the hearing, there was no lamented. 
it. 
way that guy could sit there and In regard to Notre Dame Student Body President Pat McLaughlin, who had Expressing the confidence he felt after the hearing, say that he had the facts on his side students McLaughlin remarked,been working for the bill since last August, said, ''I'm l\lcLaughlin stated, "The governor said he would have and that it would be inconceivable "Nothing is going to change for a real disappointed, real dissapointed. I can't believe it signed it. A lot of members on he committee, and that 

1
to lower the age at all. I'll be year. I expect that they'll be happent•d." 1\h:Laughlin said. they were very confident for us in the Senate," damned if he did it," he stated. ' disappointed."

McLaughlin explained that a public hearing was held 1\leLaughlin related. 
Then the student body Considering the position of the on the bill Wednesday. Four students from Indiana Commenting on chairman Dovis, Democrat from president noted, "Nobody besides administration, he said, "I don't ('Olleges, inducting McLaughlin and Warren Spangle Lake County, McLaughlin stated emphatically, "He Dovis raised any big hassles about know what kind of help they could from the Indiana Restaurant Association and former did not want the bill passed, he did not even want the it. They asked a lot of questions at have given us if we had gone to the 

Hepresentative l<'reedman of the Indiana Alcoholic bill heard; and he did not want the bill voted on. House or the Senate.
the hearing, and they asked us a lot There's Bt>verages Association, testified at the hearing. Dovis was convinced mainly through the efforts of the of tough questions. But they were nothing they can do now." 

"We had a really good hearing. Things were really Indiana Students Association and Representative all the things we deserved to be As he looked back over the fight starting to move,"McLaughlin said. "The testimony Bodine and other influential legislators in the House to asked." for the bill, McLaughlin observed, from the Indiana Restaurant Association and the In­hold hearings on it," the student body president said. 
The Student Body President also "It was a long haul, starting with 

diana Alcoholic Beverages Asociation helped us a lot. McLaughlin went on, "Once everybody testified, he admitted some jurisdictional registering kids to vote. At least Wt• didn't even know they were going to be there," he said, "If and when we hold a vote, we'll not hold it until 
committee problems with the bill. next year a lot of that won't have to continued. "I was sure they would have voted it out of all the committee members are present." As it turned "We thought it could have been be done. There were a lot of the committee --99.9 per cent sure. I was surprised out. he didn't hold the vote. You read all this stuff sent to Bodine's Judiciary Com-hassles, electing those guys. I justwhen I heard there was no vote. I don't know what to about committee chairman in the text books. Now it's mittee, where it would have had no hope that the work that's been done say." McLaughlin declared. for real." 

problem. But the Speaker of the will carry over," the student body House assigned it to the Public president said. Policy Committee," he recalled. McLaughlin concluded, "We've 
done everything humanly possible. Future speculated on That's it." 
Looking to the future of the bill, Macheca comments McLaughlin observed that the best hope is to bring it up next year. Dean of Students John Macheca 
"It's going to be introduced termed the defeat of the bill "a every year until the damned thing setback" and said, "Certain gets through. Somebody will in­potentials that may have been 
troduce it. The two people who realizedwill not be. I am probablyintroduced it this year are con­going to have to review the stituents of big college towns. It situation." would be politically wise for them Macheca added that if the to introduce it again," he said. Faccenda Bill <the limited liability 

un1versdy of nofrf' dame sf mary's college 
He also stated that he is sure drinking bill l is passed, he will 

Vol. DC No. 96 
Student Body President-elect Ed "have to take a look at it and see Byrne will "pursue it as much as how it affects the responsibilities we did. There is nothing else for and policies of the University."First successful attempt him to do." Byrne called it a "tough defeat" McLaughlin noted that a and. expressing his feelings, said, legislator could attach the bill as a ''I'm very disappointed. At this 
Friday, March 7, 1975 

Annual athletic-law loru1n 
rider to another bill this year. point, all we can do is work with "But that's a real long shot, and the Faccenda Bill. It can bring a it's probably politically un­lot of changes. I don't know what feasible.·· he added. else we can do," the student body 

discusses legal counseling 
IJy Bob (;n•pnhalgh reactions about the way the forum Grant. whose face was supertm­l\lcLaughhn also said that he had president-elect said . 
. Staff Ht•portr•· has started. and we can predict it's posed on another's body in Esquire expected the bill to be amended to Confessing ignorance of the work going to be a success." magazine. "It's a constant tug and lower the drinking age to 19 instead done by l\1l'Laughlin this year onA Sports and Entertainment Law The guest speakers that pull." Seott said, "for the right of of 18, and that it probably will the bill, Byrne added, "I don'tForum. the first of its kind. had its highlighted yesterday's sessions the public to know about the life of eventually be passed as 19. know exactly what the studentfirst session Thursday at the were Charles A. Scott. an attorney an entertainer. and the right of the "There were a lot of problems lobby has done. All I can offer is( 'pnter for Continuing Education. for a Los Angeles law firm that Pntertainer to permit the selling of with 18, mainly with alcohol in the complete support of their effortsThe forum. sponsored by the Notre represents entertainers, and his fame." 
high schools. A lot of legislators next year."

Dame Law Sehool. is held mainly l!Prman Finkelstein, special Scott also stated that his legal were saying they weren't so sure University General Counsel Dr.
for the benefit of law students, is counsel to the American Society of relationships with his clients are about it at 18, but that it would be Philip Faccenda, while declingdiscussing and examining the legal Composers (ASCAPl. not only personal, but sometimes fine at 19. We figured once it did comment on his bill itself,aspects of counseling those in­Seott talked mainly about the very emotional and full of anxiety. 
come out, it would come out at 19. remarked that the killing of the bill 

volved in various fields of en­legal protection entertainers need "If a rock and roll group is living But now it's not coming out at all." to lower the drinking age did nottertainment. in their public and personal lives, on just bread and water, it's hard he explained with dismay. 
surprise him.

Hoosevelt Thomas, a Notre and stated several cases. to know whether they should sign McLaughlin speculated that the "I was trying to tell everyone all Dame law student and coordinator "Protection of rights is a constant an unfair contract right away to bill will not be assigned to Dovis's along that it would not pass thisof the forum. stated, "This is the battle for entertainers," he said. alleviate their immediate poverty, committee if reintroduced year. However I think that it willfirst successful attempt in the Scott commented that many or wait till something better turns "unless he says he's going to let it ~orne upeveryyearuntilit passes,"nation of even holding a forum people illegally try to use the up," he explained. 
out. If he doesn't say that, I he said.

coneerning such an issue as this. reputation of other celebrities to "Otherwise," he went on to say, One other university tried to, but gain money for themselves. "The "if a group accepts.a cheap con-failed. It's sort of appropriate that name of the game is suing," Scott tract and they come up with some Notre Dame should lead the way." explained. smash hit tune, their contract, 
Thomas went on to say that For instance, one case that Scott which was once a bonanza to them, "We've had very favorable cited was that involving Cary will turn into a disaster." The next speaker of the af­ternoon was Finkelstein, who
Security patrols increase 
discussed cases on copyrights and royalties. He also talked about the functions and history connected
after report of attempted 
with ASCAP, a non-profit organization. "ASCAP's duty is to

rape near Ad. Building 
provide legal assistance to the Dean of students John Macheca attempts and actual crimes be publishers. writers, and artists, to announced Thursday that an in-reported to Security explaining insure the proper use of licenses, vestigation is under way in the that a delay makes it more difficult and to help regulate the correct early morning assault of a fresh-to apprehend suspects or conduct 
distribution of profits," he man woman last week. The a n i n v e s t i g a t i o n . remarked. assault occurred in thP poorly lit Macheca expressed concern for 
One of the more interesting and area near the Administrat!on the well-being of students involved problematic Finkelstein
cases Building and Sacred Heart Church. as well. "Students always figure 
mentioned was that of juke box The woman reported that she was 'I'm going to be all right.' They 
operators, who "make $500,000,000 attacked while walking alone on always minimize potential for 
a year. but don't pay one cent to the campus at about 2 a.m. in what injury." He once again em­composers." was apparently an attempted rape. phasized that Security should be 
Finkelstein said that alot of The woman managed to escape immediately contacted to respond 
people blame him as a poor lawyer from the two men with cutting both for medical and investigative for not stopping such blatantly weapons but suffered minor in-purposes. unfair operations, but he men­juries. The Dean of students underlined tioned that it is really the fault of Macheca reported that the the nee-! for student cooperation in 
"outdat~d laws that allow such number of campus security patrols the inve-stigation of both rumors of 
piracy." has bee ntemporarily increased as attempted rape and assault as well 
Other speakers tOOay will be, at a precautionary measure. The as in any actual crime. All 
1:30 p.m., Martin E. Blackman of Dean of Studeuts continued to students are guaranteed complete 
New York, who will discuss the negotiations of "Players Contracts
stress that all such incidents and anonymity. rumors of the same should be "We have thankfully few such 
from the Agent's Viewpoints"; and immediately reported to the Dean incidents," Macheca commented, 
at 2:15 p.m., Robert Woolf of of Students Office. "The more "but they serve as a reminder of th Boston, who will discuss 1'Total 
FIREMEN EXTINGUISH a blaze that started in the basement of 
Flanner Hall yesterday morning. The fire began when garbage in a 

time that elapses, the less effective catuion students should exercise in Representation and Services for an 
Athlete." 
trashbin that a welder was repairing caught on fire. No damage

we can be on checking up," said traveling on campus during night 
(continued on page 4) 
was done. (Photo by Paul Joyce)

Macheca. He u :.ed that all such hours." 


' 
thA observer 
world brieFs 
DENVER · Gov. Richard D. Lamm Thursday asked aides to start shopping for an economy automobile to replace an executive sedan he refused because it did not get at least 20miles to the gallon. 
An aide said Lamm told state patrol officials he wouldn't ac­cept a top-of-the-line Mercury Brougham because of Its 460­cubic-lnch engine. Lamm's refusal was based on federal milage ratings which showed the engine would get only 16 miles per gallon. 

HONG KONG Street decorations in this colony will be kept to a minimum when Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip arrive for a visit in May so as not to distract the royal couple from "Hong Kong's particular color and picturesqueness," a government spokesman said Thursday. 
WASHINGTON House Speaker Carl Albert and Minority Leader John Rhodes will visit China March 26-Aprll 9 at Peking's invitation and with the administration picking up their travel bills, the White House said Thursday. President Ford is expected to visit China later this year. 
an campus today 
Frlday, march 7 9:15am .. law forum, "leasing of sports facll Ities, television and radio contracting, fcc problems," by a. rothhenberg, cce 
10:15 am·· law forum, "the role of the general manager­representing the club in contract negotiations" by j. finks, cce 12am-Bpm . exposition of thhe blessed sacramment, lady chhapel, sacred heart church 
12:15 pm ·· lecture, "attitudes toward homosexuality: the judeo . christian contexts" by rev. j. struzzo, lib. lounge 
1:30 pm law forum, "negotiating player contracts the agents viewpoint" by m. black­man cce 
2:15 pm .. law forum, "total representation and services for thhe athlete" by r. woolf, cce 
3:15 pm law forum, "representing the injured athlete" by d. mahoney, cce 3:30pm·· seminar "computation of 3-d inviscld supersonic flows" by p. kutler room 303 eng. bldg. 5 pm --mass and dinner, bulla shed. 5 pm -· vespers, log chapel 7 PM --law torum " the role of the fan in sports" by w. gleason, cce 7,9, 10 pm . film, "the harrad experiment" 8 pm --soph. lit. fest., Robert Bly lib. aud. 
I! pm .. benediction, lady chapel, ·;acred heart. 10-1 pm ·· smc coffeehouse, 10 jerry all, 11 tim milleer, 12-tony merenda, basement, smc cafeteria. 
Saturday, march 8 9:15am .. law forum, "taxation in sports," by william gleason, cce 
10:15 am --law forum, "collective i:largaining in professional ;ports," by john thompson, cce 5 pm .. vespers,evensong, Jog chapel. 8 pm -· ballet, "tale of shalimar and shkeep" by beaux arts ballet co., $2.50, o'laughlin. a pm .. soph. lit. fest. lawrence ferllngheetti, lib. aud. 
Sunday, march 9 2 pm -· boxing, bengal mission bouts, $2 reserved & $1.50 general adm., ace main arena. :! pm -· ballet, "tale of shalimar dnd shkeep" by beaux arts ballet co., $2.50, o'laughlln. -1:30 pm --evensong, vespers Lady chapel. 7 pm ·· law discussion, freshman! discussion nite, spons. by pre-law soc., lib aud. l:JO, 10 pm --film, "airport," spon. by a.i.a.a., $1:00 admission eng. aud. 
Friday, March 7, 1975 

Alumni contributionsr;-;-;;;;~-;;-;;;;.-;;;..;; I~ increase by $840,000 .,N.o. & s.M.c. NIGHT Ar sHuLA's' 
by Martha Fanning 
Starr Reporter 
The amount of alumni con­tributions to the University have increased since last year at thistime despite a decrease in the total number of individuals donating stated Brian Regan. Director of Development. 
"We are $840,332.80 ahead of last vt>ar and down in the number of gifts by 1,243," stated Regan. He noted that since this. is only a mid­term figure since the calendar is based on a fiscal year \July 1 J unc 1). "We are going to send out our first direct mailing of the calendar year 1975 soon and the number of contributions should pick up" he added. 
James Frick, vice president of public relations and development, stated "Our experiences to date flies in the face of Professor Swartz' remark. Fewer people are giving and the amount of money is up so each amount donated from one source has to be greater." Frick was responding to a quote printed inWednesday'sObserver by Professor Thomas Swartz of the Economics Department. Swartz' statement dealt with Fr. Edmund Joyce's proposal to the Academic Council. He stated: "Clearly anytime you're dependant on exogenous gifts, and such a project calls for a large number of them, you'II be less likely to get it. This is not a good time to anticipate large gifts for buildings or anything for that matter." 
The development program's job is to raise money for priorities set by the university. "Five professors, who travel for 26 weeks of the year, make calls on foun­dations and cooperations. Actively 
Senior Formal bids due today 
All seniQrs who are signed up for the Senior Class formal must pick up their bids and pay their balance due this Friday, March 7. Please bring your receipt to the Morrissey Loan Fund office anytime between R:OO am and 6:i.l0 pm on Friday. The full price for either dinner­dance or dance only options must be paid on f'riday. Bid an­nouncemt>nts, flower discount coupons, directions and other information will be available at this time. The formal is sold out. Any questions call: Joe Hen­derlong 234-1673 Marlene Zloza 6932. 

seeking gifts is the thrust of th development program" explained Hegan. 
The large contributions made to Notre Dame are through this personal solicitation. "The direct mailings account for ap­proximately one half a millio11 out of approximately 7-9 million rai1oed each year" noted Frick 
"Given the current situation the l"nivPrsity is not going to increase its physical facilities unless we get the money through gifts," com· mented Frick. In order to renew and renovate present facilities the unrestricted endowments will be used. "We do not have a fund set aside to replace existing facilities," explained Frick. "Up until the present bind we were able to use money from the operation funds but in the past 5 years we haven't been able to do so." 
Frick noted that the develop­
ment  program  will  seek  to  in­ 
crease  the  endowm ent  of  the  
University.  

In regards to the proposed graduate student complex Frick pointed out that a commitment has been made to have something for the graduate students by 1976. "The other officers and myself feel heavily responsible to locate people who would have a disposition to help build a com­plex," stated Frick. 
Frick outlined the five-step procedure in bring a person into a relationship with the university, which is necessary before any donation. I) Identify the people who would be interested in the institution; 2) Educate them as to what you are and who you are; 3) Involve them in some kind of ac­tivity; 4) Once in an activity, they have made a commitment to you; :i) A natural flow follows the commitment. 
·'Endowments will prove to be the great equalizer betwet>n public and private institutions," ohst>rved Frick. Public schools receive their l'ndowments from the state legislatures 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box· Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46SS6. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6. 
PITTSBURGH ClUB 
MIDSEMESTER BUS HOME 
SIGNUPS SUN. MAR. 9 
7:00 PM LAFORTUNE AMPHITHEATRE
r.............fi\LEI"............i 
•
•
•
• 
:ALL ALPINE DESIGN
•
:ALL CAMP 7 SLEEPING BAGS
•
:ALL DOWN PARKAS :GERRY "Traveler" PACK
•
: AND SERIES 71 FRAME
•
: (No layaways, returns, or exchanges : 
• on sales merchandise) • : SALE APPLIES TO SALE ENDS : : IN-STOCK MERCHANDISE MARCH 8, 1975 : 



: Sierra -·.i 
• 

.233 8383 61MIAMI :
• "MIAMI AT EWING": 
~-........................................ 
•
•
• 

20% off:
•

20% off:
•

20% off: 20% off:
• 
•: 
1NO COVER CHARGE WITH THISA[l
I I 
I NOW APPEARING I 
I FREEWAY 
I 
AND 
LISTEN 




~Shul~~

NO COVER tHARGE TUES-WED THURS on US. JI Htween Milts. So B•d-Fr• ParkinK-68l-C350 
~~ EIRITAI.EIT Jill I P.l. TILL 2 l.l. 
·---~---------------------~ 
THE ND SKI TEAM 
INVITES YOU TO THE: ST. PATRICK'S WEEKEND 
IRISH BENDER CRYSTAL Mtn. Mich. 


-$40 $~~~~~~~~ 
Includes: Lodging, 3 lift Tickets, 
Meals , Green Beer, Parties, 
Races, Hot Dog Contest 
call 68 11 Rm 720 Groce 
Can 
onepriest
makea 
difference? 
In Italy, in the 1800's a poor priest met a boy of the streets. At that time there were thousands of such boys in Turin ... hungry, homeless and without hope. 
But what could one priest do? Without money. Without support. Without even a building to house them. 
But Father John Bosco did make a difference. He founded the first community that was dedicated primarily to youth. With a program of play, learn and pray he brought the boys from the streets back to God and gave them a means of earning their living. From such humble beginnings a movement began that now reaches around the world ... a movement that has touched the lives of millions of youngsters-the children of St. John Bosco. 
Today over 22,000 Salesians carry on his work in 73 courtries. A family of community-minded men who help to build a better world by preparing young boys to be good citizens for both God and country. Salesians serve as teachers, coaches, counselors, parish priests and missionaries. You see, one priest can make a big difference. 



r----------,

I 
For more information about Salesian Priests and 
I 

Brolhers, mail this coupon lo: 
Father Joseph Mallei, S.D.B. Room 107 
I Salesians~~X ~I9.J~~~~c~~~~~N.Y.10802 I
II
I am interested in the Priesthood 0 Brolherhood 0 
Name Age____
I I
Street Address City State Zip
I I 
Phone
I I
~~on
,__________-,
( Your Current Job---------------­
SBP Byrne plans action for year 
by Mary Reher Staff Reporter 
Student Body President~lect Ed Byrne outlined his priorities for the next academic year, with key issues including the calendar and the Indiana alcohol law. 
"At this point we will begin work on the Academic Calendar, the 
alcohol bill, the Committee on Undergraduate Life Progress, and 
organization of the staff," stated Byrne yesterday. 
"One of the first things we plan to do is help Bill Scheible and l'l'te Morelli conduct their campus poll on their proposed calendar revision." he continued. That provision, outlined in yesterday's Ohst•t·\·t•r, would feature a week-long Thanksgiving break. 
"We can help by getting them together with all the different people in the halls that we know to help conduct the poll," Byrne stated. "We would need people to take votes on the proposals in the dining halls. We hope to get the Academic Council together ~efore spring break," Byrne noted, adding that it would probably be m the form of a referendum. 
Although Byrne does not take office until April 1, both he and Pat !\It-Laughlin. -current student body presdient, will work on the l'almdar proposal. 
"I think Pat is about ready to pull out," Byrne stated. "But I do not t•xpt•cl to take over before break,'' he added. 
"Pat said we can meet Monday and to just enjoy the next four days ... hP said. "Hight now I am discussing the future staff for t~e office with !\like Schnaus. Tom Bursic, and Stan Cardenas, who will lw m~· chief advisor." Byrne said. 
Sturlt'nt govt't"lllll('llt posts 
The positions and committees assignments will be discussed next week. according to Byrne. Applications will be taken and in­ll•rvit•ws set up for various student government posts. If it is im­possiblt• to set up an interview due to a time conflict, then Car­denas. Bursic or Vice President Tom Fitzgerald could interview him. said Byrne. 
"We are interested in looking for hard workers who will get things done. and have possibly had previous experience, such as hall government or high school," stated Byrne. · 
Hegarding the positions themselves, Byrne said, "We do not expect any large changes. Any changes will be at the recom­mmdation of the people up there right now. The position of tn•asurer will be more centralized next year, however, noted Bvrnt•. because the assistant treasurers will be underone treasurer in. charge of all the funds. Previously, the assistant treasurer 
Third youth disappears delivering newspapers 
Bockford. Ill. WPI Fifteen-year­old Joseph Didier is the third youth in three years to disappear while delivering newspapers in this industrial northern Illinois city. 
Tht• first two were abducted in 197:! and 1974. 'spray painted, beaten or sexually molested, and r£'1east>d several hours later. 
But Didier. the son of a Rockford aldt>rman. has been missing since Parly Tuesday. a fact that worries tht• :100 police officers searching for him. 
Thl' youth. described by friends as lively. inquisitive and resposnsible. started his paper routt> Tuesday morning and ap­parently was interrupted just as he got to his fourth house. A neighbor said she heard unusual noises that morning and Didier's newspaperbag was found across the street. 
There has been no ransom 
dt>mand or clue to his 
whereabouts since then. 
His father, George Didier, is l'onvinced his son was kidnaped and is not a runaway. 

THE STEPFORD WIVES 
,,~::~:::::;:-~. 

ACOLUMBIA PIC!URfS and ~OMAII PICTURES INTERNATIONAL


li""l§!§!!jlr'Ir
~~~~1~~¥a~ 
Byrne said he hoped to reschedule
''Everything seems to point to 

bill alive, and we will offer our 
the meeting in the near future.
that. I'm afraid," Didier said 

support." Byrne noted that the 

SBP ED BYRNE steps into his new office and confronts calendar, alcohol and SLC problems. (Photo by Greg Young) 
of Student Union and that of pay the $10 fee, it is feasible for Student Government were more next fall, but there is a problem of separate in their work, he said. getting all volunteer help." He 
mentioned the possibility of getting Possibility of merger 
the University to help subsidize 
these workers; by reducing the 
savings from 15 percent to 9 per­Currently, Byrne, Schnaus, cent the workers could be givenCardenas and Bursic are "making salaries. 
sure all their campaign platiorms Presently Byrne is meetingare possible." Byrne cited the various members of the ad­merging of the Student Government ministration. He had metand Student Union social com­Hesburgh just prior to the firstmissions as an example. 
election voting.
Most of the issues will probably "I will meet with Dr. Ackerman, center on the Undergraduate Life director of development, todayCommittee reports since they after the meeting of the Committee cover so much area, he said. The on Undergraduate Residentiality," Trustees will see which direction said Byrne.
Student Government will· go, he A meeting with Burtchaell on theadded. 
calendar issue, to be broadcast"The alcohol vote is dead at this over the radio, was scheduled forpoint," observed Byrne. "In the yesterday; however it was can­long run, we will definitely keep celled because Burtchaell said atrack of the Indiana University -"grave emergency had come up." 
lobbyists who will try to keep the 
"I hope to strike a balance between social and academic affairs," stated Byrne. 
Byrne wants to do basically the same thing as McLaughlin, he claims, but also to be more vocal. "Pat has done a lot but students do not realize it," Byrne said. Byrne said McLaughlin had succeeded in getting respect fot he Student Government among the ad­ministration. 
"We cannot confront the ad­ministration openly unless we have a very large issue," Byrne said. He added that McLaughlin had succeeded in doing a report quietly and effectively and giving it to the right people to get things done. 
SLC ruture discussed 

With regard to the Student Life Council, Byrne said," I hope to sit in with SLC Chairman Frank Flanagan to talk about the SLC's future. I do not want to see the SLC die because it is the only organization with students, faculty and administration all meeting together," Byrne said. "I am sure that is what the committee will recommend," he added. 
Byrne then briefly discussed 
student apathy, saying that he did 
not intend to destroy it with .one 
newspaper article, but that he was 
willing to change it next year. 
"The HPC does a good job on • 
campus," said Byrne, "and I think 
the off-campus students should be 
organized into neighborhood 
groups with a newsletter and 
meetings the students would be 
encouraged to attend." It would 
not be exactly the same as the 
HPC, noted Byrne, because off­
campus students should get in­
volved in-neighborhood govern­
ment in South Bend. 
"Having the president live off­
campus and the vice-president live 
on campus makes a good com­
bination," said Byrne. "This way 
it will be easy to get a hold of one or 
the other." 
Thursday. "He's a very reliable, I.U. ·students are offered credit 

dependable young man. He just hours to lobby for the bill but that it 
THE ROMA
recently spent $9 for a new 

is unlikely that Notre Dame would paper bag. offer a similar program because it 
PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD 
is so far away from Indianapolis.
For him to go out and deliver a Byrne thought the two bull 

Your ·Hoet Frank Anastasio
few papers and drop it and take off sessions student government held -I can't believe that. He's too 

'A PIZZA YOUCANNOT REFUSE'
to voice student opinions weremuch of a responsible young successful. A monthly forum with 
LIVE BANDS ON WEEKENDS
man. 

Call 234-3258 For Delivery 219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtown At North End Of River Bend Plaza 

Expects merger of NBA.ABA 
Gallner speaks at first sports, law forum 
today. "A certain few number of for the client. John Havlicek, Lewis from the University of During-the question--answer 
by Pat Cuneo lawyers will make a deal with an superstar of the Boston Celtics, did Tulsa, collecting $800,000 for period, Gallner was asked for his 
Starr Reporter athlete while he is still in college not jump to the ABA because he signing. Lewis played only 15 position on the drafting of un­
where the attorney will loan the was happy in Boston, even though minutes of playing time and dergraduate students into the pros. 
Sheldon Gallner highUghted the player an amount of money if the he would have received more retired, but collected every penny He responded, "I don't see opening of the First Annual Notre player will let the attorney money in the rival league. "These of his contract. anything wrong with it, provided Dame "Sports and Entertainment represent him in future rontract are important considerations," Gallner stated that "multi-year the student can make it in the Law Forum in a speech delivered dealings," Gallner explained. Gallner stated. contracts are misleading when pros." at the Center for Continuing The ultimate goal of the sports­read about in the newspaper." He The y,oung attorney and author Education last night. law attorney, or any attorney for Three sport law cases added that "the total package is of the book, Pro Sports: The 
''In the very. near future I expect that matter, is "to teach and the only thing reported, but this Contract Game, substituted for the merger of the NBA <National preach the sanctity of contracts," Three major cases were stated includes the bonuses, base salary former NFL end John Mackey, 
Basketball Association l and the cited Gallner. By this, it would be by Gallner as the most classic and incentive clauses." who had unexpectedly left the ABA (American Basketball equally wrong to execute which occur in the world of sports. The sports attorney also com­country. maneuvers in order to create extra "The Rick Barry situation is mented that "the myth of the dumb The sports-law forum will
Association>," stated Gallner. 
"Congress will permit this move bonuses for the client. unique not because he was the first athlete is iust that--a myth." continue through Saturday. 
because it is not a violation of the In the Julius Irving case, for NBA player to jump to the ABA, Anti-trust law," he added. example, Irving had made a deal but because of the reasons for 
which he did it, "Gallner began.
Congress will, however, regulate with the Virginia Squires of the "Barry jumped to the Oaklandthe merger such as in the case of ABA when a junior at the 
gate sharing and television University of Massachusetts. Oaks because 1l his father-in-law revenue. When he made the contract, he had was the coach and he had been yet to prove himself in the pro having marital problems, and 2) Sports law explained ranks, but after his sensational he liked the San Francisco Bay rookie season, he appealed for a area. Defining the term "sports law" better contract. Several lawyers In that case, Barry told his Gallner stated, "It is combination refused to help him because he had 
Iawver that he did not want to lea~e the Bay area even if the teamof contracts, labor, and anti-trust signed a legal contract but 
law." ignoring this, he jumped to the moved, but the attorney failed to Gallner spoke about the Spencer Atlanta Hawks of the NBA despite put the stipulation in writing. Haywood case to explain the im­the fact that the NBA draft rights Therefore, when the team decided 
portance of representation in belonged to the Milwaukee Bucks. to move the following year, Barry contract dealing. Haywood, while The situation was finally resolved did not want to move with them. In still at the University of Detroit, 
when the owner of the New York the next few years, Barry spent negotiated a contract with the Nets of the ABA bought his rights $90,000 in attorney fees and Denver Rockets. Represented by by paying all of the teams in­eventually lost the case. 
Bubba Smith, one time the
his high school coach, he thought volved, according to Gallner. he has signed a six-year pact for Gallner believes that "attorneys premier defensive end in the NFL, 
1.9 million dollars but it turned out have an obligation to protect their received a knee injury two seasons to only be worth $300,000. The clients and assuring that they are ago. Earlier this past season, the 
Supreme Court accepted being paid according to their Oakland Raiders wanted to release Haywood's testimony and delcared 
contracts." Smith, but by a legal contract they the contract void, according to In response to players jumping were unable to do so. "Both 
Gallner. from one league to another, parties now are very happy," Gallner said.
Gallner pointed out that there is regardless of the sport, Gallner a certain problem existing in the feels the attorney has the In the .third case, the 
..-------------------......:.•·,;,;;,:·.::,:uc;;:a:;:.:Io~n;....-----­


JONI MITCHELL 
NEW RELEASE 
MILES OF AISLES 
ON ASYLUM RECORDS & TAPES AT 


BOOGIE RECORDS 
919-B College Square Mishawaka, Indiana 255-0266 
AEROSPACE CLUB PRESENTS 
BURT LANCASTER DEAN MARTIN HELEN HAYES JEAN SEBERG 


AIRPORT 
GEORGE KENNEDY MAUREEN STAPLETON 
ENGINEERING AUD. $ 1 SUNDAY AND MONDAY TIME: 7:30 & 10:00 
attorney-sport client relationship responsibility to weigh the benefits Philadelphia 76 ers drafted Dana 
·-~··;r.
·..}.·. ·.~: 
First sports-law :THENOTREDAMESTUDENTUNION: 
-.........• _.. 

forum discusses i PROUDLY PRESENTS i legal counseling: SU S : 
(continued from page 1) : 

N HINE : 
Also at 3:15 p.m., Dennis M. • • 
• Mahoney, a Denver lawyer doctor .•: A TRIP TO FREEPORT .•. 
···~c. i".:l will examine the way of 
..., ~~~·~t~~.~enting the Injured : IN THE BAHAMAS : Ending the forum on Saturday • • morning, David T. Link, associate =.. 8 DAYS & 7 NIGHTS ::
dean of the Notre Dame Law Srhool. will speak at !I: 15 p.m. • • . .. roncerning "Taxation in Sports--: FOR 0 N LY : The Athlete and the Team." • • Finally, John Thompson of the : 
$2490 0 : 
management council for the • • .~ National Football League will : : discuss at 10:15 about "The • INri.UDES·. • 
Collective Bargaining in : : Professional Sports." • • 
The rorum will be open to all : * ROUND TRIP AIR FARE VIA DC-9 : Notre Dame students who bring • FROM SOUTH BE • 
their J.D.'s on a space available : N D : 
"IN THE VERY near future I expect the merger of the NBA end basis. All lectures will be ~el~ in : * MEALS AND LIQUOR IN-FLIGHT : the ABA," stated Sheldon Gallner last night. (Photo by Greg Young) ~~de Ct:enter for Contmumg • • 
: * ACCOMODATIONS AT THE : : CASTAWAYS : :• * CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST DAILY : • : * FULL DINNER DAILY : :• * U.S. DEPARTURE TAX :• 
i OPTIONS: i 
: SAILING, TENNIS, GOLF, SCUBA : • :•
: DIVING, DEEP-SEA FISHING, 
: SCOU 1ER RENTALS, SNORKELJNG : 
: $50 DEPOSIT REQUIRED i i SIGN UP NOW i 
:BROCHURES AND INFO AVAILABLE AT : :STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE (2nd : :Floor LaFortune) OR CALL 283-303 1 :
• 
: PLUS TAX AND GRATUITIES/PRICE : : IS PRO-RATA CHARTER PRICE : : OPEN TO NO COMMIINITY : 
····~··························le·············· 
Tillie Olsen presents readings 
by Mary Pat Tarpey 1 
tribute to contemporary. "To see and do work in ways never thought A short reception was held in the finished things to work on. "l'm
Staff Reporter 

now someone who is a foundation, possible before, I'm speaking Library Lounge where Mrs. Olsen hoping for ten years in which I can 
Tillie Olsen, award-winning author of such works as Tell me a Riddle and Yonnondio, pre!;ented a reading of selected works last night in the Library Auditorium as the week of the Sophomore Literary Festival nears its end. 
Mrs. Olsen began the evening with reflections of her own, in keeping with the title given to the Literary Festival, "Reflections . ., "One of the greatest communities" observed Mrs. Olsen, "Is the community of writers and readers. 
Writing is only alive if it takes seed in readers, those who care for it." 
Evident in her introduction, was the opinion of the importance of the writer to the field of literature. "The honor and life of literature is carried on not by those who give honors, not by those who give subsidies but through writers themselves who nearly all are neither able to get enough to live on their writing nor get true recognition. These are the ones who subsidize art by their own life." 
Mrs. Olsen also made mention of the other authors participating in the festival and paid special 
made it possible for others to go on especially of James Farrell." 


Mrs. Olsen read a selected passage from her work entitled Y onnondio which was published last year. The novel was begun 
.when she was nineteen but was put 
aside during the twenty years of 
her life which she did not write. Upon completing this reading she asked the audience or "com­munity" as she termed the group, to refrain from clapping. "The way to applaud is to be silent now, 
and applaud when you see it in· ....----iili!i---------..-_.-­
summer job placement. The continuation of this program,
Thompson to lecture 
which has been in effect since 1973,
• 1• t • 
was recently announced by
on Arnerlcan po 1 lCS Placement . Bur~au Direc~or 
Richard Wlllemm and Tim everyday life. You applaud by your help." 
Mrs. Olsen went on to read her\ 
story, "Tell Me a Riddle". This! 
reading which lasted the 
remainder of her presentation, 
captivated the filled auditorium. 
Bureau offers 
placement aid 
for summer jobs · 
Realizing the pinch the present depressed state of the economy . puts on students looking for' summer jobs, the Placement 
Tillie Olsen Bureau and the Alumni Office are continuing its program for 
Hunter s. Thompson, author, Am~rican correspondent for the journalist and National Affairs NatiO_nal Obsuver. He has also Editor of Rolling Stone, will speak c~ntr~buted to ,;uch publi~ations as at 8 p.m. Friday, March 14 in Esq?~rt', theNt'w York T1mes, Tht' Washington Hall at the University· NatiOn, a_nd .Ramparts. He 
of Notre Dame. Thompson will speak on "The Reconstruction of American Politics" as the third in a series of lectures sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Civil Bights. His appearance will be co­
~ponsored  by  the  Notre  Dame  
Student  Union  Academic  Com­ 
mission.  
After  covering  the  1972  

presidPntial campaign for Holling Stonl'. he expanded his articles into a book. Ft>a1· & Loathing: On tht' ( ·amJiaign TI·ail '72, which was hailed bv the New York Times Book Ht>view as "the best account ~·et published of what it feels like to be out there m the middle of the .\mPrican political process." His Parlier books are: llt>ll's Angt'ls. which Thompson wrote after riding for a year with the <'alifornia outlaw motorcycle gang, and Ft'ar and Loathing in l.:1s \'••gas. 
A native of Louisville. Kentucky, Thompson has served as Carib­bean correspondent for the New York Herald Tribune, and South currently hves m·Colorado where he was narrowly defeated several year~ ago m a campa1gn for sheriff ?.f Pitkm Cou.~ty, running on the 
freak power ticket. 
Thompson's appearance will be open to the pubhc and free. 
Hunter S. Thompson 

MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES 
*  2 FILMS  
*  BOOKSTORE  
*  LIVE FLOOR SHOW  

1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
Truesdell, Assistant Alumni 
D1rector. 
Students_ on. any grade level can apply by p1ckmg up a form at t~e Placeme11:t _Burea~, Roo~ ~13 m the Admm1mstrat10n Bmldmg. The students w1l~ then contact the placemnt co~m1ttee ?f th~ Notre Dame alumm club m h1s area directly. The Placement Bureau and the Alumni Office will ~o l~nger act as go-betweens but w11l s1mply oversee the progr~m. 
The program has met w1th great success m the past and it is hoped that it will continue to better relations betweeen students and alumni. 
answered questions. She admitted it difficult to pin down a theme occurring in her literature and she felt that it was basically up to the reader. However, she cited "There exists a deep sense of wonder as to how much there is in humans both unlived and not yet devleoped. I tend to show an honor and respect forthe ordinary human life which isn't at all ordinary." 
In discussing Mrs. Olsen ex­
plained that she has many un-. must and do love language." 
..·-...----..•-iiiiiiiii-..,------------......,.--., 
I 
1 
, concentrate on'my own works." She also touched on general advice or rather "What I have Ex­' perienced." She noted that it is ' important to realize that "there j are no rules in writing , there is no 
kind of writing that is the only 
legitimate type. Also try to keep 
your writing alive. A good writer 
writes with his or her whole being. 
You must become as alive and 
observant as you can. All writers 


NICKlE'S 
PRESENTS 

60 HOURS 
OF THE LOWEST BEER PRICES IN THE COUNTRY! 
MON, TUES, WED: 
NOON  -MIDNIGHT  
THURS, FRI, SAT:  
NOON  -8:00 P.M.  

PLUS THE BEST HALF-POUND CHARCOAL GRILLED. HAMBURGERS IN TOWN 




r-:;o-E--wA-Ls-H--1 
I JOE WALSH ·SO WHAT· 
I ALBUMS NOW $4.99 AT I 
I I I I 

919·8. COLLEGE SQUARE MISHAWAKA, INDIANA · 255..0266 
. ­

lwiN THE NEW JOE WALSH 
I ALBUM "SO WHAT": I ~ ­
I • l{l't-.ltlL'\
I 
I 
I 
I. 
I 
I 

Friday -at The Library (9:00 ·midnight) Saturday • at Shula's (9:00 • midnight) Sunday • From WRBR (9:00 • 3:00 a.m.) 
the observer 

~~The Observer ·... ' on independent student newspaper Founded November 3, 1966 Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief Bob Zogas Business Manager Bob McManus Advertising Manager EDITORIAL BOARD Terrv Ke~ney, News Editor; AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Fred Graver, Editorial Editor Jeanne Murphy, Copy Editor; Robert Baker, Features Editor; Greg Corgan, Sports Editor Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Chris Smith, Photo Editor; Bill Brink, Senior Night Editor Jirn Eder, Ann MeCarry, Pattie Cooney, Zenon Bidzinski, Marlene Zloza, Contributing Editors Editorials: 283-8661 News: 283·1715 Business: 283·7471  
Thursday, March 6, 1975  

Ideals into action 
The election of Ed Byrne and Tom Fitzgerald signals the beginning of anew regime in Student Government. The year of Pal McLaughlin's effective leadership is coming to a close. But as the time for handshakes and congratulations to the candidates passes, one thing will not 
~hange. 

The problems faced by Byrne and Fitzgerald and Notre Dame Student Government still require effective action from a new and idealistic set of leaders. 
What is required now, above all, is leadership. Leadership is a two-way street. It means holding the respect of students by effectively representing their views. To lead is also to win therespectof administrators who control student life at this university. 
Leadership means something more than just administrative ability to re­organize Student Government. It means responding to the future of student Government by working toward an alternative to the Student Life Council that may soon be abolished. It means defining the role of a Hall Presidents' Council that is now undergoing intense self-examination. 
Leadership means activism: in the 
face of student frustration effective 
student leadership is placed at as high a 
premium as ever. It means mobilizing 
the students when the administration 
says "No" to an important student 
project. 

It is encouraging to note the turnout of students in this election--students who spoke up in the forums and bull sessions of the campaign. Perhaps the apathy brought on by frustration is coming to an 
end. If so, the new Student Body 
president must channel that interest into 
constructive student efforts. 

Byrne and Fitzgerald would be wise to channel this flicke·r of interest by bringing those students who ran in the campaign into Student Government. The few ideas that did emerge from the campaign must not be discarded with the counted ballots. 
The lime for congratulating is over ... Now is the time for the idealism of the campaign to be translated into constructive action. One can only hope that this idealism never dies and that our newly elected leaders themselves avoid falling i'nlo the frustration they should be trying to overcome. 
Terry Keeney 


P.O. BOX Q 
Dining hall joke.•• 
Dl"ar sirs: 
On February 27, several residents of Holy Cross Hall decided to participate in a "rating contest" consisting of pointing out persons in the crowd and having "judges" rate them by holding up numbered cards. This event lasted approximately 20 minutes and was applauded by many people in the dining hall. Although initially intended for the rating of women only several men were included. It was obvious some young ladies were perturbed by the incident, but the judges thought it would be realized that the entire thingwas only a practical joke. This was obvious because: I) men also were rated, including the pointer; 2) ratings were arbitrary and had no relation to "beauty"; 3) there were no cards with numbers higher than 6, except for the joke cards. 
Obvtously, this was not to be the 
case. On Saturday, March 1, 
another such activity was planned. 
This time, however, women were 
to be included on the panel, in 
'order that the judging would be 
equal. But all planning proved 
futile, because Bob Howl, HPC 
chairman and dining hall em­
ployee, confiscated the numbered 
cards. This raised an uproar, and 
as a result many people wrote 
feedback cards about the handling 
of the situation and one hall 
resident visited Mr. Price to ex­
plain it. As a result, Mr. Price 
requested prior information about 
any future activities of this sort. 
The same hall resident returned to Mr. Price's office on Tuesday to request permission to hold up cards with the name of the SBP candidate he was supporting. Mr. Price granted this permission. But later that afternoon Mr. Price revoked his permission. The ob­vious question: Why'? 
The answer was: The Dean of Students. It appears that some women complained strongly about the events of last Thursday, and went to Dean Macheca. The Dean then conferred with a resident assistantfrom Holy Cross. During their conference the Dean produced 10 of the feedback cards written Saturday. The verdict was soon reached: No mo"te rating in the dining halls. The Dean of Students apparently called Mr. Price and informed him of the verdict. Mr. Price then relayed this information to thea tloly Cross residents. 
Several questions arise in this writer's mind. First, why is such a small thing brought before the Dean of Students? Second, how did the Dean of Students get hold of cards intended for the dining hall staff'? Third, who runs the food service, Mr. Price of Mr. Macheca? Fourth, why can't the students of Notre Dame take a joke at fa;e value, instead of flying off 
the handle'? Finally, why couldn't 
those women who had complaints 
have complained to the source of 
their "miseries"'? If both of the 
sides had been heard instead 
of only one, there would be no 
necessity for any hassle. 
We will not apologize for the 
action of the Holy Cross residents 
involved, of which we are two, 
because we do not feel apologies 
are really needed when no harm is 
intended. However, we invite 
anyone whose feelings were hurt to 
contact us and explain their side of 
the story. 
Sincerely, 
Tum Brogan 
llrt•w llanik 

Taken too seriously? 
Ut>ar Editor. 
Once again, the girls of Notre 
Dame, especially some from 
Walsh Hall, have demonstrated 
their immaturity and inability to 
take a joke. Last Thursday night 
in the South Dining Hall the Hogs 
of Holy Cross attempted to liven up 
the atmosphere and provide a 
change-<lf-pace by holding a girl­
judging contest, complete with 
signs and numbers for rating 
them. The entire dining room 
enjoyed the entertainment, except 
for a few deadbeats, who com­
plained that our actions were 
t>mbarrasing and degrading. 
The worst part of the matter is, that these girls complained to members of the dining hall staff and even higher university authorities about the incident. When we attempted to hold a second performance on Saturday evening to entertain the North Quad residents eating at the South Dining Hall, we were stopped by Bob Howl. president of the HPC. because of these complaints. This was done in spite of the fact that Saturday's judging panel consisted of both men and women, and both sexes were to be judged. The winners were to receive prizes, and the contest was to be held in good humor. as the first had been. 

After the rating cards were confiscated. we then filled out the Feedback cards provided by the dining hall to voice displeasure concerning the actions of Howl and the other dining hall officials. Somehow, these ended up on the desk of Dean Macheca. The purpose of the feedbacks is to criticize or praise the food service, not to serve as a direct line of communication to Macheca. We hoped that the university was above using such police tactics, but apparently this is not so. We are extremely sorry to see that some girls on this campus, along with some administrators, lack a sense of humor. 
Sincl"rt-ly, 
Steve Meiskey 
Max Brady 
Louis Groden 


the observer 
Night Editor ·-Val Zurblls Assistant Night Editor --Katie Kerwin Layout Staff --Martha Fanning, Kevin "Doles" Dolan, AI Rutherford Day Editors--Maureen Flynn, Mary Egan Copy Readers --Bob Radziewicz, Ann McCarry Editorials--Terry Keeney, Tom , Drape 
Features --J. Robert Baker, Ginny Faust Sports --Greg Corgan Typists --Anne Peeler, Mary Tobin, Rick Huber, Camille Arrieh, Don Roos, Jim Landis Compugraphic --John Kuhn Picture Screener --AI Ad Layout --Bob Tracy Late Typist ·-Dave Rust Night Controller --M.J. Foley, Dave Rust 
uOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
Letters to a Lonely 
some of our sheep are 
missing 
reverend robert griffin 

There is a kind of fretfulness charac­community who are neither ministers, nor "Listen to those priests; they have the also, at least to this extent: to tell us how we teristic of shepherds by which they worry ministered unto <it is not news, GQd knows); words of eternal life.'' Christ has the words can be of help.about members of the flock who never seem people who are completely untokched by the of eternal life. But his words in my mouth Last year, I was appointed the University to come home at night to the sheepfold. caring Christianity of the place. Notre may be filled with false accents and Chaplain to this campus; I have tried ever Some of the missing sheep obviously need Dame seems as indifferent to them as the misleading stresses. I, as a priest, have no since then to grow into a Christian who could fretting about, for they have gotten lost in wastelands of Siberia, neither blessing them divine authority to promise believers they be worthy of that title. As the Universitydark valleys; they need to be searched for if nor allowing them to be a source of can find Christ in me or any other man. Cahplain, it is a chief concern of mine that they are going to be rescued from t~ jaws blessings. They see no grace, truth or I cannot, then, insist that the sheep your lives be touched by the influence of of the wolf pack. Other missing on"fls are beauty in the place, and have no sense of a return to the fold because of the danger that faith and example: the faith and example of black sheep, full of naughtiness, who snub scene encounter between God and man. they certainly wiU otherwise perish. I the priests, sisters, and brothers who live as 
the shepherd's care, preferring the Indeed, they are turned off by the preten­cannot insist that I, or any other priest, has teachers, administrators, workers, or maverick's perverse meanderings to the sions of a campus that imagines its kind of a right to the attentiveness of any believer students on this campus; the faith and shelter of the sheepfold. Eventually, it is to rat race to be a journey along the glory or non-believer. If any Christian wants to example of those other men and women,be expected, they will return home with the road. belong to me as in a relationship of sheep to married and unmarried, who work and s~pherd's arms around them, ready to be As a campus priest, I sometimes say as shepherd, it must be from his choice of faith, study here; the faith and example of protected and loved, and as especially many as five Masses on a weekend_ as the not mine. But yet, daily, I must suffer-­students who struggle for growth and the petted as black sheep ought to be. Then celebrant of liturgies attended by hundreds and do suffer--at the truth spoken by those opportun'ties of servie, in their lives before there are the silly sheep who behave like of worshippers, and there are other priests I who say: "There are hundreds, even and after graduation. asses. trying to make it on their own. But know who do the same. I am certain, then, thousands, of students at Notre Dame, who If no one, among all these people who they never find the meadow; they always from first hand experience, that God and remain unaffected by the work of the minister towards one another, has touched miss the stream. Sooner or later, they are the people of Notre Dame are not strangers campus ministers." you with a sense of God's decency and care-­grateful to ride home on the shepherd's to each other. But always, there is the if you have never felt Christ assertingshoulders, hungry and silly as ever; they awareness of those others--the unchurched, I know there are hundreds, even Himself in some of the ways in which Notre will be ready in the morning to make we sometimes call them; Christians whose thous.tP!ds, of students who remain unaf­Dame people try to be divinely responsive another mistake of self reliance. faith is unstirrred to declare itself in public fected by the work of the campus ministers. 
and responsible to one another--then there 
celebrations of the Life shared by the vine If I mention the fact now, it is not to whine,
As an old chaplain who works at the has· indeed been a massive failure of 
shepherd's trade, I, like others who and the branches, for whom Christianity is a or make excuses, or to tell you my dreams ministry at Notre Dame. It has been a maintain a ministry, fret about the un­quaint anachronism reminding them of · of being, alone or with others, the Messiah 
failure of ministry not only by priests, but a 
flocked sheep. Sometimes sheep, 30metimes creeds they once professed, but now find who brings a generation of the young to the failure in ministry of the entire campusshepherd, there are those I minister unto, unrelated to life and the struggle against feet of Christ. I .mention it now only to say family.and those who minister unto me; together, death. For ~very Catholic, possibly, who it hurts to have a failure of ministry; yet I But even then, we are not willing to give we enjoy the sheepfold's comfort. It is the attends Mass on Sunday, there is another am not silly enough to blame myself or my up. "Other sheep I have who are not of this sheepfold of faith that maintains us, and the Catholic whose faith is lapsed or inactive; or fellow ministers for the corporate failure of fold," says the Lord. If there are other Lord is the Shepherd keeping us from fear one who is merely lazy about spiritual the Church in our age. Some of us are only sheep, there can be other shepherds also. I and hunger. For me, the sheepfold, is one of obligations; or one who has grown bitter or foot soldiers in a world, and in a faith, at war thought of those other shepherds recentlythe essential arrangements of life. Within hostile towards the practices of faith, or one with itself. when a young man, representing the the sheepfold, there is peace and safety; who says: "I have no arguments or But we try; I honestly think, we try. I Campus Crusade for Christ, came around, outside it, the valleys are shadowy with the quarrels with religion, but, really, who preach where I can. I minister in the places offering to make himself available for fear and threat of death. Home is a needs it'?"; or one who says: "Someday, I where I am invited, or places I can invite ministry at Notre Dame. "Others are place close to the watchfire where the vigil will be attentive to God, but right now, I myself to. I listen as much as I can, sitting casting out ,devils in your name," said the is kept against the mortal dangers of thief can't be bothered." in cold, sometimes empty rooms until four Apostles to Jesus, "and you promised us we and beast who would make off with the I have no right to say to such inactive in the morning, trying to listen and to be of might do it. unguarded lamb. Life and ministry are a Christians: "Submit to the Shepherd," help. It is little enough that I do, but I think "He who is not against me," said Jesus, search for the strayed members of the meaning, "Yield your life through me to that I try, for I want to serve and I need to "is with me." II flock; and as shepherd or as sheep, I must Christ." I have no right to assume they are minister. · This is an age in need of shepherds who 
' 

keep an eye on homecomings. not beautifully alive in God. I have no right If I write these words now, it is only to say can cast out devils in Jesus' name. It is also 
to insist without fear of contradiction: "Add that I care about being shepherd. I want to an age when shepherds are in need of sheep.
As a campus chaplain, then, let me say it your worship to that of other campus wound your indifference by showing you But even at Notre Dame, the sheep and the plainly: I am concerned about the sheep 
Christians." I cannot absolutely say: how vulnerable I am to your neglect of a 
shepherd must find one another if the place living outside the sheepfold; I am concerned "Attend the liturgy of priests appointed by ministry, mine or that of another's, that is to continue to be, as it has traditionallyabout the people who seem lost to the the campus to be the ministers of could help heal you. I want you to know that been, a sheepfold beloved by the Chief
Church. There are members of our campus redemption." I cannot make assurances: I and others care. Hopefully, you can care Shepherd who is the Lord. 
the sound of public poetry 
What is best? Are a beatnik and a true poet and audience. Poetry was meant beat the same thing? These are questions to primarily to be heard, not read. consider as Lawrence Ferlinghetti, one of '"The printing press has made poetry so the oldest members of the Beat Generation,­silent tha_t we've forgotten the power of appears tonight (this afternoon) at the poetry as oral messages. The sound of the Sophomore Literary Festival. streets andthe Salvation Army speaker is 
With the publication of his first not to be scorned," Ferlinghetti contends. volume of poetry, Picture of the Gone World P'erlinghetti 's poetry reflects this em­<t!155 >. Ferlinghetti was identified with the phasis on sound. The syllable, not the foot or San Francisco group of best writers. The meter is the poem's building block. poet moved to San Francisco around 1948 Syllables combine not into feet, but into and purchased the City Lights Bookstore. lines. Line length is determined by 
By 1957, Ferlinghetti had been joined by where the poet takes a breath. Both line such writers as Jack Keroac, Gregory length and breath pauses accentuate the Corso. Allen Ginsberg, Kenneth Rexroth meaning. and Michael McClure. Ginsberg read His poetic structure also reflects the "Howl" and the San Francisco Rnaissance beat's distrust of tradition. Ferlinghetti's was in full swing. poetry is marked by the absence of 
For most persons, the word beat conjures traditional devices such as rhyme, meter, up images of now defunct generation of and uniform left hand margin. Maynard G. Krebs; images of women and Indebted to free verse pioneers Walt bearded men, both dressed in gray Whitman and William Carlos Williams, the sweat$hirts, levi's and Keds. They listened poet also employs some of William's visual to peotry in dimly lit coffee houses, made effects with the line visually accentuating Sartre into a fad, organized Zen cells and the meaning. The following lines from protested against bourgeoise squares and "Coney Island No. 22" provide a good the bomb. example of Ferlinghetti's poetic style: 
San Francisco journalist Herb Caen coined the term beatnik to ridicule A doorstep baby cries Ferlinghetti's generation of beat writers and cries again and their Jess talented followers. But the lik£' true beat is not a social misfit per se. a 
The best generation was given its name by ball Keroac who described the beat as "poor, bounced down and out, dead beat, on the bum, sad, down steps. sleeping in subways." Simply put, the beat is a man who has had it. Ferlinghetti, 55 years old, was educated at 
Beat describes a state of mind stripped of the University of North Carolina, A.B., 19; all triviality. Though a beat may be empty Columbia University, M.A., 1948 and the and displaced, he is not disengaged. "Only Sorbonne, Doctoral de L'Universite, 1951. the dead are disengaged,~· Ferlinghetti Since the founding of City Light Books in stresses. 1953, the poet has become publisher of the 
The beat is rebelliously attracted to a Picket Poets Series and seved as editor of society run on bourgeoisie values and the City Lights Journal since 1963. threatened by nuclear destruction. This Ferlinghetti, his wife and two children paradox forms the basis of his art. reside in San Francisco. 
What happened in San Francisco in the Ferlinghetti has published six volumes of late fifties was the emergence of public poetry: Pictures of the Gone World (1955), poetry. The beat generation returned to the A Coney Island of the Mind (1958), Starting oral tradition and the close bond between from San Francisco 0967), The Secret 


8 the observer Friday, March 7.~ 
.------------.R" 
'


Macheca takes co1nplaint cards, Observer 
from dining hallrating contest I . f RePorters 
"No one will ever turn in a card have control in the
by Don Riemer starr reporter 

Several dining hall complaint cards, submitted at the South Dining Hall in response to the supression by the dining hall staff of a "girl rating contest", were requisitioned by Dean of Students John Macheca. 
A first rating contest was held on Thursday, February 27 th in which a student walked around the dining hall and pointed out various women who were then "rated" by a "panel of judges." 
Ivan Brown, Holly Cross hall president and one of the organizers of the contest, stated that the rating system was "absurd" and that "it was meant to hurt no one." 
Brown explained that a second contest was planned for Saturday, !\larch 1. However, it was broken up by dining hall staff, who con­fiscated the cards used for rating and said that "there woilld be no ratings today." Apparently several students became upset and roieed their complaints about the staff's action by filling out the complaint cards. 
When Macheca bacame aware of 

the incident, he asked Director of 
Food Services, Edmund Price to 
a.llow him to see the cards, and 
Price complied. Macheca ex­
plained, "I wanted to see what the 
cards said because I had heard 
from various students and hall 
staff about the incident." 
Macheca noted that he then 

turned the cards over to the hall 
staff of the particular hall involved 
and the matter has been resolved 
within the hall. 
Price defended his action, stating that the incident was a matter of student conduct. "We're not disciplinarians," Price said. "Macheca is more involved with student conduct. When l\lacheca asked for the cards, I thought he'd like to answer these people because it was involved with >tudent conduct and he could .mswer them better." explained 
'rice. 
\lacheca also refused to concede 

mything improper in his request 
,,. the cards. which are intended 
·,. the use of dining hall staff only. 
· would hope there would be' 
. >ponsible student input on these 
1rds." he reacted. "Anyone 
king a reasonable position should 
,; care who saw his card." 
;orne irresponsible things were 

..Jid and this is what I'm concerned 
·. ith." Macheca stated. 
Brown said that the students who 'urned in the signed cards didn't ·xpect them to go to Macheca. ··when we turned in the complaint l'ards. we didn't think that they would be given to 1\lacheca."_ he noted. "We sent them in to be seen only by the dining hall staff," Brown said. 
Auburn to speak on ERA Sunday 
Paula Auburn, vice-president of the regional Women's Political Caucus, will be the featured speaker for a discussion of the history, goals and ramifications of the Equal Rights Amendment 1ERA l. At present, the amend­
forFroshslated.t 
The Pre-Law Society will 
~~~~~rS~nla~~s~~r~~9~~tc~~-i:. 
in the Library Auditorium. Asst. Dean of the College of Arts and 
~-~t~::s~~oh~:'it;:~~~~~i:~nds!~~: 
undergraduate years. The forum will then be opened for discussion. 
All inh~rested !;t\Jdenrs·are·invited. to atl(·nd. 
with their name on it again because it might go to Macheca, Brown continued. "It would be alright to send in what was said, 
but not the names of the people,"he said. 
Price reacted to this charge by stating that it never occurred to him that turning over the cards to 
iMacheca might deter students from submitting cards in the
future. 
"The cards are used to exchange ideas with the students and we respond to everyone," Price ex­plained. "They are not con­fidential because everyone on the staff reads them," he added. 
Concerning the action by the dining hall staff on Saturday night, Price commented, "We have to 

Hickey announces $250 tuition increase 
St. Mary's College Acting President Dr. William Hickey announced today in a letter to parents that the Board of Regents has approved a $250 increase in student fees for the 1975-76 academic year. 
Of the $250 increase $100 will be applied to tuition and $150 to room and board. 
In the letter, Hickey stated that the $100 raise in tuition represents a four percent increase at a time when many private institutions are projecting increases of more than 10 percent for the upcoming year. 



Rock !;}and J. J. Gunne is scheduled to open the Joe Walsh concert next Wednesday at the ACC. Band members include Jay Ferguson, on piano and vocals; Mark Andes, on bass; Matt Andes, on lead guitar; and CinC:y Smith on drums. 
Tickets for the concert are now available to the Student Union ticket office and the ACC. Ticket pricesare $6,$5, and $4. 
* SMC COFFEEHOUSE* 
TONIGHT ! Come for 
9:00 -1:00 

good music n 
& good times
under the dining hall 

f 
', 
t Business Manager. Su mit app 1cat1ons to tf1 • Jj• ~· s h I t _g.ffi
e 

'' . l'ftll.. . ~~ccor nt c 0 as IC re t '-~·~ ~.J/6~~--~--------.Ill ~-------­


Scholastic Editor-in-Chief·also for Scholastic t 
, I t
d 

Art Director, Advertising Manager an ',

b 1• • f 
particularly the maintenance of academic programs and faculty, as the major causes of the tuition increase. 
The acting president also cited substantial increases in main­tenance, utility and food service expenses as reasons for raising the cost of room and board. 
Current fees are $2,450 for tuition and from $1,180 to $1,460 annually for room and board. 
Hickey also noted that additional funds would be available next year for those students with demon­strated financial need due to the 
dining hall, otherwise students would interfere with each other. The students had no right to stage the contest in the first place, but it was overlooked 
Thursday," Price added "What worries me is if anyone is 
hurt, either physically or emotionally," said Price. "Some people might not want to par­
ticipate in such activities, he ad­ded. 
''The entertainment is good," 
Price continued, "but if people 
are hurt it should not be allowed." 
The Holy Cross president felt that the dining hall staff 
overreacted on Saturday mght. "I thought they overreacted seriously,'' he said, ''instead of
talking it over, they just grabbed the cards. We tried to explain, but they still took the cards away." 
f
f t f
f f 


t f f
f 

Leave from Observer office at 3 p.m.




L----------------­
WARM ATMOSPHERE GOOD PEOPLE QUIET LITURGY 

SUFFICIENT SUPPER TONIGHT 
& 

EVERY FRIDAY 5 PM BULLA SHED 
W~t ~olonial ~ 

Reporter's Works opS 
With JERRY LUTKU 
I 

{South B~nd Tribune & former 
Ob dlt )
. server e or. 3 • 5 p.m. Sunday 
(at South Bend police station) 



~----~-----------------------~-----------------...., 
Friday, March 7, 1975 
the observer 
9 

the animating spirit of robert bly 
Without doubt, Robert Bly is one of the most important poets living and writing in America today. For more than two decades, Bly has been a vital ancr animating presence as poet, editor,tran­slator, and critic. Robert Bly refuses to affiliate himself with any university, living instead on a farm near Madison, Minnesota and supporting himself through writing, editing, and reading fromhis works. In a time when poetry usually exists somewhere outside our everyday lives, Bly has attempted to break down the walls that separate us from an awareness of poetry as an im­mediate and vibrant part of our Jives. 
The poetry of Robert Bly is 
deceptively easy to read, his style 
is accessible and often prosy. By 
combining straightforwardness of 
expression with almost archetypal 
mystic paradoxes, Bly succeeds in 
imbuing unsophisticated and 
unornamented language with 
vague and often ominous meaning. 
"It is difficult to explain Bly's 
surrealist poetry, but undeniably 
his strongest poetry evokes 
somesort of truth all the more 
forceful because it exists beneath 
or beyond any reasoned response," writes one critic. 
The themes which find ex­
pression in Bly's poetry make up a 
complex and widely differentiated 
whole..Natural, animal, rural, and 
simple imagery of solitude abound 
in Silenct' in the Snowy Fields, the 
first book of Bly's. A sense of 
detached tranquility pervades the 
air in these poems: 
llow strange to think of giving up all ambition! earlier poetry. In a poem enuuea Suddenly I see with such clear eyes "Listening to President Kennedy The white flake of snow Lie about the Cuban Invasion" That has just fallen in the horse's there is a sense of terrible despair mane! about the leaders of the country: 
'Watering The Horse' 

There is another darkness, Bly seeks to, in his own words, A darkness in the fences of the "open new corridors into the body psyche by association." Thus, his or brutality in high places, poems depend more on imagery or lying reporters, than on insistence upon form. There is a bitter fatigue, adult and 
From such poetry of the sad. mystical body in the 50's, Bly moved toward political concerns However, the most Important with the advent of the 60's. He anti-war poem Bly has written in organized American Writers some measure undercuts the Against the War in 1966, and was process of re-integration hinted at active in anti-war poetry readings in the closing poems of Light. This throughout the country. The poem bears the striking title "The second of Bly's books, The Light Teeth Mother Naked At Last." It Around tht> Body, reflected the concerns itself with a direct, poet's increasing regard for the dramatic representation of the war stupidity and insanity he saw in juxtaposed with the affluence oflife this country's involvement in in these states of the union: 
southeastyearning· Asia.towardThe solitudetran-and · llt>licopters flutter overhead.
physical The scendence of Silence collide (in dt>athbee is coming. Super Sabres this bookl with the frightening like knots of neurotic energy sweep idiocy of the Vietnam War. This around and return. violent wrenching of the inward This is Hamilton's triumph. man by the outward world results This is the advantages· of a cen­in surreal imagery of bodily tralized bank. mutilation: 
A critic says, "the warrior men­tality, recreating itself inBishops rush about crying, there is machines, opposes not only nature no war, t800 steel pellets fly through theAnd bombs fall, vegetable walls") but the darkLt>aving a dust on the beach trees flow of its own humanity, its movement toward the death which Ont> leg walks down the road and completes life." 
leavt's In 1973, Sleepers Joining Hands, Tht> others behind, the eyes part Bly's sixth volume, appeared.

And fly orr in opposite directions Various poems, which has previously been released in otherDepression and glo6m obscure the books, were here collected, alonginternal peace and serenity of with an essay in which Bly 

discusses what has become an important theme: the conflict between male and female con­sciousness. He also develops a theory of types of symbolic Mothers: there are four in opposed pairs, constructive and destruc­tive. The Earth Mother<Demeter) is balanced by the Death Mother <Kalil, while the Ecstatic mother <Artemis l is balanced by the stone mother <Medusa). Having set up this cross, Bly uses it as a point of reference for discussing aspects of life today. The Vietnam war represents the triumph of the destructive, or "teeth" mother, but liberated styles of life show a returning influence of the ecstatic mother. The poems of Sleepers, however, do not depend upon any archetypal sociology for their compelling force, Bly himself warns against any attempt to interpret his work on such terms. Preoccupations of Silence return along side of the "Teeth Mother" which is also included here. For 
EAGLES 
On The Border 
?E-1004 
EAGLES 
EAGLES

On The Border 

SD-5054 SD-5068 

by mark froze/ 
example, in "Six Winter Privacy As a reader of poetry, Bly has Poems" one read: established a reputation for in­tensity and compelling attraction, 
About four, a few flakes. 
·•a constantly disarming mixture
I empty the teapot out in the snow, 
of vaudeville comedian and
feeling shoots of joy in the new 
oracle," as a critic put it. His
cold. 
appearance here at the Sophomore 
By nightfall, wind, 
Literary Festival should be one
the curtains on the south sway 
of the· highlights of the entire
softly. event. 


"PRIME CUT" 
STARRING: LEE MARVIN GENE HACKMAN 
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS HAll THURS, FRI, SAT MARCH 6, 7, & 8 features at 8:00, 1 O:O'l, and 12:00 P.M. ADMISSION $1 .00 MEMBERS FREE 
1'r==llrls~!!;~~iiR!!f!!l!!~!!lir=9 
TUESDAyI MARCH 18 
7:30 PM 
:!,:. 

MORRIS CIVIC ::~;~:::::: AUDITORIUM 
Notre Dame's 



PRE-CANA ·PROGRAM 
for engaged couples 
April 6, 13, and 20th (Sun. Ev.) Limited to Notre Dame students and their partners 
Sign up now in Campus Ministry Off. Deadline: March 19th S nsored Cam us Minist 

-
Friday, March 7, 1975

Congressman Fraser:War is lost 

By NI('IIOLAS DANILOFF 

WASHINGTON <UPI> ~ A l'ongressman just back from Southeast Asia said Thursday "the war is lost in Cambodia," and a colleague urgf!d the U.S.­backed government to raise a white flag in surrender. 
In all. four of the eight Congressmen who toured South­Past Asia recently said Cam­bodia's President Lon Nol should be encouraged to resign, so that powl'r could be 
Glickstein cites white changes in govlt structures 
lloward A. Glickstein, director of thl• Notrl' l>aml' Center for Civil Bights. testifil•d that whites have n•sortl'd lo l'hanging the govern­nwntal structures to assure that black political power will be kept to a minimum. Glickstein said it is nitically important that Section 5 of the Voting Hights Act, which n~quires any changes in election laws and procedures to b cleared by the Department of Justice, be in effect after the 1980 census when reapportionment is again required 
"There is simply too great a danger that the temptation to dilute black voting power will continue to prove overwhelming for many of those who now control political power," he said. 
Hesburgh speaks I to subcommittee I on black voting I 
I The former head of the U. S. I Civil Hights Commission told a 1
l 
House subcommittee today that 1 l'ontinued federal intervention is I necessary to protect black voting I rights and encourage full political I participation of all minorities. I Tes~ifying before the sub-1 committee on Civil and Con-I stitutional Hights, Rev. Theodoree I 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., the president I of the University of Notre Dame who resigned in 1972 at Nixon's I request as head of the nation's I ( 'ivil Hights Commission, asked I for a ten-year extension of the 1 Voting Hights Act of 1965 and a 1 permanent nationwide ban on I literacy tests. 
t 
"I be.lieve that any test for voting· 1 which depends upon educational 1I achievement or which tests literacy, understanding, or I knowledge, is especially I discriminatory against blacks and 1 other minorities in those states 1 where there has been a denial of I (•qual i.•ducational opportunities," I Hesburgh said. "The return of literacy tests, even if impartially 1 administered, would have the 1I saml' discriminatory effect in I 
Boston as in Hichmond, in Hart-I 
ford as in Selma. These cir-1 cumstances require a nationwide 1 permanent ban on literacy tests," 1 
hl' said. 
Ill'sburgh said there has been a I sig!Jificanl increase in the numbers 1 of blacks registered, voting, and 1 running foroffict> in the Southern I statPs since the Voting Rights Act 1 was pa~sed in 1965. But, he said, II thl' progress may be destroyed (•ntin•ly if control over the 1 n·gistration process and deter­
mination of election qualifications I1 is restored to the states. I 
ReligiousservicesJ 
transferred to the Communist­backed Khmer Rouge rebels or to exiled Prince Norodom Sihanouk. 
But State Department offi­cials and three members of the congressional fact-finding delegation argued the op­posite. saying Congress should give Cambodia $222 million in Pmergeney aid even though its government "is not one of the most effective in the world." 
The bleak assessment by the four members of Congress, and the opposing views, were stated at congressional hearings into President l<'ord 's request for l'ml'rgency aid to Cambodia and South Vietnam. 
"It set•ms clear the war IS lost in Cambodia," Hep. Don l'rast-r. D-Minn., testified before a Senate foreign rela­tions subt·ommittee. "I think an orderly transfer is within reach. 
"I think we should call on 
ll. N. SPcretary General (Kurtl Waldheim or the French government to find an ex­perienced diplomat to contact tht> Khmer Rouge and see what would be the conditions for a transfer of power." 

Rep. Paul McCloskey, R­Calif., said Lon Nol should step down and an emissary be sent to rebel forces encircling the capital. Phnom Penh, to "sur­render. the city under a white flag." 
Reps. Bella Abzug, D-N.Y., and Millicent Fenwick, R.-N.J., agreed Lon No! should be asked to resign in order to prepare for orderly surrender. 
"Don't think for a moment that Lon Nol is there except for us." Mrs. Abzug told the Senate hearing. Said Sih~nouk. nom ina! leader of the insur­gPnts who lives in Peking, might take powt-r at least for a transitional period. 
!\Irs. Fl'nwick said the only rt-alistic view "is that Lon Nol's governmmt is through." 
Thn•e other members of the fad-finding delegation disa­grl'l'd. 
HPps. Bill Chapell, D-Fla., and John Murtha, D-Pa., and Sl'n. l>l'wey Bartlett, R-Okla., indicatl'd they oelieved the Lon 1\;ol governm~:,nt could survive for thl' immediate future and should be supported until the rainy st-ason at the end of May slows down the fighting. 
Hep. John Flynt, D-Ga., the ant St-cretary of State Philip C. l'ighth member of the delega­Habib said Cambodia would tion. did not visit Cambodia and soon suffer Communist military did not testify. takeover and "an unbelievable 
I<:arlier. at a House subcom­transformation of society" un­mittee hearing on the same less Congress approves Ford's t-mergency aid request, Assist-l'mt•rgency aid request. 
TAX ASSISTANCE PROGRAM for free help with your TAX RETURNS, stop by the Student Government Offices (2nd floor LaFortune) MONDAYS 1:30-4:30 THURSDAYS 2:30-4:30  
WASH. D.C. BUS ROUND TRIP & ONE WAY DEPART ND FRI. EVENING MAR. 21 LEAVE WASH. MON. MAR. 31 FOR INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS CALL JOHN 6939  


I


r-----------------------------------------------------,I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
II 
I 
I 
I 
I 




Newer Math. 
If you're a sophomore it's not too late to enroll in Army ROTC. Undet the Two-Year Program you can attend a six-week Basic Camp 
1 

next summer, take ROTC in your junior and senior years, and receive 1 
a commission along with your diploma. In other words, complete a I
I 

four-year course in just two years! And if you're a veteran you don't 1 
I 

even have to attend the six-week Basic Camp! 1 
1 

Army ROTC will also pay you $100 a month while you're in 1
1 

school (for you vets, that's in addition to your GI Bill) to spend as 
I 

you wish. I Army ROTC has a lot more to offer, too. For more information call 1 

begin today at 12J or write: A~1Y ROTC rJiir Army ROTC I 1 UrJIVERSITY Cf f•JOTRE DN[ \5' 1 
Friday. March 7,1975 is the First I f·JQTRE D/HAC, l[J 4G~Jr::6 The more you look at I 
Friday of the month. There will be 1 'I t-v 1C --' 1 t•:xposition of the Blessed I 283-6264/6265 it, the better it looks. 
Sacraml•nt in the Lady Chapel of I I Sacrl'd lh•art <.'burch from .noon til. '·~, • 1 , , , • • , , ~ • , , , • I, . !l:OO p.m. BPnedlctlon' wilt 'b~ at, I I .I ,'. " .I : .... ' ~. ; '. ' ·-. I r ,. ' .' .,., '', • -•• '} j .-< ·. • I ' . " 'u;.... ,'::·· .. '' . I ..
1 
-

' -... ---. · u••'7 O:U, • .,.,.,IIIJMJ · ~-·JIII....JIIII __________...,._
!l:OO p.m. 'All are 'invi(ed. l •. 1..------------------~~~-~~;..~~...;.----I . '
'I ,· 

'"-•·• -.. -, •• .,.,.,,.,.~.,. ...,....,.......)>•a:•...,_•,.. J•t."',..,.,...~_. •• ..., ........,......-..-.-..... ..._W\.,.a.•a.~•"""'.-A!~.*" ....·.w.v........-.wv.., .,,..,, v .. •••~,. ...-.vv­

/ 
Lowest priced-full sized car 
Ford Co. reverts to basics 
D'ETROTT <UP}) -Revert-price of $4,288 it will be the keyed seat belts. il\tt to basics in an attempt to lowest-priced full-size car on The move by Ford to offer sell cars, the Ford Motor Co. the market-$57 below the the stripped car for 30 days is Thursday said it will offer a \o....-esl-priced standard Chev-the latest action from Detroit to stripped-down version of its rolet. continue interest in new cars standard-size Ford $424 ~ome of the items not found now that cash rebates have cheaper than any full-sized ear on the custom 500 but standard ended. Standard equipment has now offered by the No. 2 auto on the more luxurious Ford been made optional on some t•onpany. t'.TIJ are tinted glass. a clock small cars, but Ford's move 
The special custom 500 four-and a number of interior and was the first to affect the door model, with few frills, up Pxlerior trim items such as the larger models which some auto to now has been offered only to hood ornament, wheel lip l'Xecutives admit may be fj~t ourcha.!_ers. With a base moldings, dual_ horn _iind colo_!:~ ~carrying too much standard 
01.1 leaders convene fq~~~~~t.will be offered the
I custom 500 at $4,288 with bias­
• f -ply tires, or $4,380 with steel­'belted radial tires which automakers have been making standard equipment because 
ALGIERS <UPJ) -Leaders the American proposal for a they offer a small fuel savings. of the world's oil producing floor price for oil. Also available is a custom 500 nations Thursday ended their Instead, it said OPEC nations station wagon at $4,878 with first summit meeting by "are prepared to negotiate the :bias-ply tires. proposing a conditional freeze conditions for the stabilization Ford apparently decided to on oil prices, linking the cost of of oil prices which will enable, 1offer the lower-priced full-sized oil to the cost of industrial Ithe consuming countries to! car because there is now an 
ca11 fOr Price reeze 
imports from Western nations. 
But such a freeze, they added, would depend on West­ern agreement to reform the world monetary system to protect the oil nations' bank accounts and investments abroad and to give massive development aid to the Third World. 
The 13 kings, presidents and sheikhs of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said any freeze must be linked to inflation, so the price of oil would go up as their imports from the West become more Pxpensive. But they left open whether OPEC would demand oil price increases equal to the full rate of inflation, or only part of it. 
A final 14-point "solemn
declaration" ending the three-day summit said the member
nations "ensured <oil) supplies that will meet the essential requirements" of industrial nations. But it threatened joint "measures" -presumably in-eluding an oil embargo against any nations committing "aggression, economic or military", against any OPEC member. 
The declaration will form the framework of OPEC's future dealings with the increasingly united Western oil-using nations -first at an April 7 meeting in Paris and later at a full-scale users-producers conference ex­pected to grow out of that meeting. 
At a time when oil demand is falling and the West is pressing . for lower prices, the declara­tion made no mention either of 
• t·utting the pri~es of oil or of 
make necessary adjustments to' 'oversupply of the larger mo-their economies." 1dels. The seven-week rebate 
' OPEC officials confirmed price war and price cuts that that "stabilization" meant lrollowed concentrated on the "freeze." But the declaration jsmall cars. made it clear that the inflation On Jan. 1, before the cash would not be allowed to roll 'rebates began, Ford had an SO­back the real value of OPEC 1day supply of its standard-sized incomes, as it has in the past I<'ord models. That grew to a year. 1present supply that would last The OPEC declaration also 1102 days -almost double the insisted on "adequate protec-:normal supply. tion against the depreciation of lndustrywise, the record in­the value of the external lventory of 1.75 million unsold reserves of OPEC member lcars on Jan. 10 was reduced by countries, as well as assurance !about 200,000 cars entering of the security of their March. However, because of investments in the developed the pickup in the tempo of auto eountries." !'ales, the 1.53 million cars now This meant guarantees in stock would last 67 days against nationalization and ap-days, compared to the llO-day peared to call for some supply on Jan. 10. 
compensation for the fall of the • .,._____....:,__~----..!:===:::
"" 
you call 1o91 by Friday,

,.........._ ......_....,_.--a;-~---~----:;;..,~.-.~, 
Gay Stlidents of Notre Dame: In· 

formation, call 6343. Fri. & Sat., 8·12 
p.m.

1 NAZZ 1 
Pipes, stones, roach clips, papers. pipe cleaners and other smoking 
i'lccessories on sale at Pandora's. 
-cross from Rocco's.

t presents t 
What qood is sitting alone in your
t ~ 
room~ Gay Students of Notre Dame. P 0. Box \702. South Bend, IN, 46601.

t Friday ~ 
Hear Mike McCoy of the Green Bay Packers speak on his experiences in Pro Football and Christian 
t t 
Fellowship, Tuesday, March 11, 9 pm, St. Ed's Chapel, 2nd floor. All welcome. 
f 10 pm Rich Spangler f 
t 11 pm Jim Gresser t Apartments for summer sublease. Good condition. close to campus.
t f 
Call 272·4156 or 277·0130. 

t 12 midnight Dave Shaheen f 
FOR SALE

t t 
One Miracord 750 with V -15 II. Pair Southwest Technical U.T. power 
amps. 75 watts each (R.M.S.). Call 277·0085 after 7 pm 

I Saturday I 
One set of weights. $16 or best offer. Call Dr. Maison between 7:00 and
I I10 pm John Begert 
9:00 pm at 272-9895. 

----,-----­One car: 1968 Opel. Crummy running 
condition, bad trans.Stereo tape. Will pay $25 
t 11 pm John Salveson I 
t t 
Senior Formal fix. Complete 
package. Call Pat. 287-3592.

t 12 midnight Jack Kelleher t 
6.string folk guitar, $65. 2127.

f t 
Flying Junior Sailboats tor sale. 13'3". Good condtion. Notre Dame
t_another Student Gov't. Productionf 
Sailing Club. 8312 or 1150. 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
ll.S. dollar, in which oil bills are paid. 
cLR
In Paris, eighteen oil-consum­ing countries belonging to the International Energy Agency opened a two-day meeting 
NOTICES 

Thursday and chief U.S. dele­gate Thomas 0. Enders said he 
Darby O'Gill T·shirt clearance sale! Gel em while they last! Call 3370.

was '"optimistic" they would 
3377, or 3383. · 

reach agreement on a floor price for oil. 
Dance SMC Nursing Club. Featuring Talisman. Open to all.

Secretary of State Henry A. 
Friday nile, 9·1. Regina Hall, $LOO.

Kissinger wants to set a permanent m•mmum world ' 
Need ride to Detroit area March 7 or 
8. Please call Brenda, 4260.

price for oil in order to encourage development of al­
Western Electronic 24 Hour TV 
Service. 1530 Western Ave., 282-1955.

ternative energy sources such 
as atomic power and shale oil. 
Summer in Europe, Uni-Travel 

The Americans have been 
Charters at less than 1!2 reg. econom~· fare. 65 day advance payment required. U.S. Govt ap­

talking in terms of an $8 dollar 
a barrel floor price for oil, 
proved. TWA-PanAm-Transavia 
707's. Call toll free 1-800-325-4867.

down about $3 per barrel from 
the present price. Many of the 
To the owner of the Plymouth that

other lEA members would like 
~lit the 2 front tires of the car in a much lower floor or none at 
Kubiak's parking lot Friday night: the bounc!'r qot your license number
alL.. ---· 

,,nd wilt g:ve it to the police unless 
'· 

Friday, March 7, 1975 
the observer 
11 


SUND..A V MASSES 
MAIN l.nJRCH 

Sal. 5:15 p.m. Fr. Bob Griffin, C.S.C. Sun. 9:30 a.m. Fr. Tom Gariepy, C.S.C. 
1 
Sun. 10:45 a.m. Fr. David Burrell, C.S.C. Sun. 12.15 p.m. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. 
I


-:::=================== 
·---­

~ s·--.. 1F.1ED ADs. l 
"'-.,_, 
WANTED 

Housemate wanted. 4 room house with basement. backyard, garage. very nice rooms. Excellent neigh· borhood. Call Jeff at 283·7234 or 234· 2931. 
Need ride to Massachusetts for spring break. Call Charlie at 8845. 
Desperately need ride to DC area tor spring break. Share expenses. Please call 4872. 
Need ride to Boston for break. Call Jim, 8504. 
-
____.._------­
Ride needed from Iowa to ND and back, 3-13. 3·17. Art. 289-3638. 
Ride needed to Ann Arbor, Fri af. ternoon. Call 4238. --~·---·-----­Student wanted to drive car back from NYC after Easter holidays. 234-0405. 
Need ride to NO from Tampa, Fla., area on March 30 or 31. Will share expenses. Call Mark. 1043. 
Need ride to Fl. Lauderdale, spring break. Judy, 6797. 
Need ride to New Orleans at spring break. Call 4379. 
Need ride to NYC area for spring break. Call Lou, 8621. 
Wanted: 2 1970 Cotton Bowl victory football banners, 18" by 36". Will pay reasonable price. Jay Wright. (219) 287-6084. 
Need ride to Miami for spring break. Call cathy, 4367. 
Two of us in desperate need of ride to Phila Trenton area for Easter break. Call Mel. 3457. 
Desperately need ride to Fla. near West Palm Beach for break. Call Ron, 3306. 
E
lum--preferably small and equipped (and cheap!). 1166 FOR RENT Furnished houses available now for summer and fall rentaL Phone: 289­2602 or 234.9364. -----·------­
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: brown purse at Reinke's party, Saturday night. Reward. Call Kathie, 8901. 
-·----~--'----­
Lost: gold banded ring with yellow stone in Galvin Life Building, first floor. about 2 weeks ago. If found, please call Tim, 2633: reward. 
Lost: Texas Instruments Calculator. Monday. Reward offered. If found please call Chris, 291-1741. 
, D<?sperate)Y, .;1~es;t ,f9r exams, , 
I 
I 
Lost: Photographic thief -return I negatives to locker 72. Carol Costa. 
Lost: 1 blue and gold Buffalo Sabres hat It found, please call 1200. 
Found: wat"h at O·C party with initialing MJG 1971. Call Dave, 289· 8075. 
PERSONALS 
Revenge is imminent. 
Hammy you make a pitcher of . Pepsi taste like Dr. Pepper. Friday Frolickers 
Miller. No elephant can hold a slick to you! Jeff Thompson 
Hey kinky fencer, So I don't read the Observer much but if you are a freshman we've got caught. Thanks for the day brightener. 
Time passes like a sparrow in flight, yet time like the sparrow sometimes pauses to catch its breath. or see the flower. or feel the sun. 
My lime with you has been the same because like the sparrow in flight. I've paused and felt the sun. seen the flower. and finally caught my breath. Happy 21st. 
GREAT SCOTT! COME TO LOUIE'S JUMBO BEER SPECIAL MON. THRU THURS., 5 pm TO 9 
pm. 

It's AI (dining hall) Sondej's bir· thday 1 Aren't you glad he was born?! 
Dear Ambrose Rose. Can't wait to get to you alone. 6024. 
Happy Birthday Barto Schnutsky. Herman and the Moose 
Happy Birthday Tribi. Welcome to NO Chacho. Herman and the Moose 
Southern Belle, without blonde hair, whether or not the racers win we both lose. Reminder: you have plans for Sun. nile. Regards to Uncle Leo and your traveling companion. 
Your errand boy. 
The celebrated world·renowned artist Lucia Henning presents her latest endeavor "Paperworks" ­Center Gallery, Morea, SMC, March 9-15. 
Her fans 
Turn oJn to the Marikaye Flyke Show, WSND · 7 pm. Fridays. 
To the girl from Williamsburg, Pa•• Who is another year older today: So what can be possibly said? Tonight she will drink herself red! 
From all her meaninglessrelationships 
/ 


Friday, March 7, 1975
12 the observer 




Irish accept NCAA Midwest bid 
Kansas {probable first-round opponent at Oral Roberts in Tulsa 
by Greg Corgan "We're Just gomg to work all week and do a job on them," countered Adrian Dantley. "I

Sports Editor 

don't care what defense they play as long as we win the game." 
The phone call came at 9:40 yesterday morning, Digger knew the exact time, and the . I<:Jsewhere, among those s~Jected, there weren't many surprises involving at-large NCAA voice on the other end informed athletic director Ed Krause that Notre Dame had p1cks. In the MldWI'st. along w1th Notre Dame and Kansas, Louisville will play the winner lwen selected to play the University of Kansas on March 15 at Oral Roberts in the Midwest of the Ne_w York ECAC tournament. That team should be either St. John's or Rutgers. It rl'gionals of the National Collegiate Athletic Association's basketball tournament. w_as or1gmally pre~umed the four ECAC tournament winners would fill the four at-large 
"AI the beginning, nobody believed we'd get this far," said an t•xuberant Phelps, "but b1ds m the East reg1onal, but the NCAA pulled a last minuteswitcheroo. \I"(' made believers out of them." At Texas Tech, the Southwest Conference winner will play Cincinnati and the ACC 
The fact of the matter is, this year's 18-8 Irish are only one game away from the farthest r~nnerup will_ play in_dependent Creighton. In the Mideast Regional, the Mid-American point last year's 26-3 squad made. "These kids have done something nobody expected," ( onference wmner will play the Southern ECAC winner in Tuscaloosa as will Marquette addt>d Digger. "After we lost to Marquette, they made a complete turnaround, and the last and Alabama. Marquette Coach AI McGuire should be crying long and loud up in half of ·he season went 11-2 and that's better than any team in the nation except Indiana. Milwaukee about that. "'That'll be a great game to watch on TV," said Phelps. "AI will be ThP l JS really deserved this bid." at his best." At Lexington, Kentucky, Indiana will face the WAC runnerup, probably 
Tlw Irish are actually slated to meet the winner of the Big Eight Conference in Tulsa, Anzona and the Ohio Valley Conference winner will play the Pacifie-S runnerup, most whl're Oral Hoberts is located, and that winner is as yet undecided. The Jayhawks have a likely Oregon State. onP gamP lead over both Kansas State and Missouri with Oklahoma to play tomorrow. 
In the East. at Pennsylvania, LaSalle will battle the N.Y.-Conn. ECAC winner, and Penn Kansas is an overwhelming favorite to beat the Sooners. However, should KU lose to will face the Big Eight runnerup. In Charlotte, Maryland, or the winner of the ACCl >klahoma. and Missouri and Kansas State win their respective ball games, there would be tournament. will play the Missouri Valley Conference runnerup, New Mexico State, while a three way tie for the Big Eight crown. In that case the teams would playoff for the one Furman will face the New England ECAC winner.
and two spots on Monday and Tuesday nights. 
In the West, at Arizona State, the 8EC runnerup. probably Kentucky. will play Arizona"That would be good for us," said assistant coach Dick DiBiaso. "Let them wear State and Nevada-Las Vegas will play San Diego. At Washington State, UCLA will playthemselves out." 
the Big Ten runnrrup, Michigan perhaps, and Montana will face independent Utah State. 
But Kansas should settle things easily enough on Saturday, especially with a chance to !<'or now though, Digger isn't even concerned with the other regionals. His goal is to beat get revenge with the Irish staring them in the face. Notre Dame won the regular season Kansas at Oral Roberts and then travel to New Mexico State for the regional. playoffs. 
mt•eting between the two teams 75-59 here, way back on Dec. 9. 
''I wanted to go to the Midwest," explained Phelps. "I think it would have been unfair of"They'll have everybody set," noted Digger, "their students, their band, everybody. 
them to put us in the Mideast at Alabama. I know last year after we won the Sugar Bowl inThey'll be out to get this one back. Their going to play on emotion and they're going to football. they were really gunning for us down there. This year, after the Orange Bowl, it want this one badly." 
probably would have been just as bad. But you can't get fussy, I'm just glad we're in it."
"Playing Kansas again is going to be tough," added Dave Batton. "They played a man­And as he left the office for practice he Jet everyone know it, "It's that time again, Dot," to-man against us earlier in the year, and now they'll probably go with a zone. And with he said to his secretary, "that's what we live for."
their big men, that's what'll make it tough." 

Great Lakes tournament 
*Observer 
underway today at ACC 
b)· Greg ('organ n-ct•ntly returned from New York spt'ctalors to follow." PxplainsSpm·ts Editor when· he tried out for the 1976 U.S. 
lli'CitTO. "Tht'rl' will be ex· Olympic Team. At sabre. the Irish planations in the programs. bigSome elassify fencing as a will go with Sam DiFiglio and John 


Sports 
scoreboards all over the floor.
minor sport at Notre Dame. except \"ozellt•. 
target areas designated. and theft'nct>rs perhaps. But this In tht• womt'n "s division, which is tmn•rs will all lw WParing num­wt•t>kt•nd's Great Lakes Fencing only foil. freshman Kathy ll(•rs. Also. in lht• finals there willTournamPnt is as major as they \"aldiserri and captain Cindy only lw two strips so that onlv twocom<•. and onl' look at the im­Bl'bholz will compete for Notre matt"~.t·s will tw going on at· nnt'prl'ssive list of competitors tells llaml'. \'aldiserri is last vear's llml'.
why. champion. hut this year tht>re will Th1• <;n•at Lakes tournament has
als start Sunday 
ThP Ninth Annual Great Lakes ht• 28 womPn representing 14 a n•eord number of 19 schools1'\"ent: hosted by Notre Dame for schools mtPred. including a fresh­mt('rl'd this year ml"luding WaynP IhP st>cond timI'. will feature two man from Northw(•stern. Karen Statt• which has won the 1-1ast two'\('/\/\ champions~ both from Bt•ekman. tht> 14th ranked woman ~Pars. Notre DamP snapped\\"ps(('rn Michigan University. ft'nt"l'r in the nation. 
\\Slf"s long rPgular season win·Tht>V are Steve Danosi. the Tht• m1•et will take place in the ning streak Parlier this. year . Innational sabre champion and Greg north domt• of the A.C.C. with tht• mpn's compt•tition Wavnelknko. the national foil champion. prPliminary action beginning at 4 Statt•. who has won the compditionI lanosi is a threP-time Great Lakes p.m. Tht> semifinal qualifying fi\"e limPs and Notre Dame. whowinm•r while Benko has won his rounds won't begin until 7:30 won in 1968, are the favorites. Inspeciality twice. Friday night and this is where the lhl' wompn's compt•tition, Ohio"This is the biggest tournament hracketls for the next day's Statt• is considered the team tooutside the NCAA," says NO st•mifinal and final t•vents are set. 
II(•at. fmcing coach Mike DeCicco. Saturday morning at 9:30 the In all. including women, each"There are four or five foilsmen st•mifinal rounds will begin. The team will consist of eight mem­hPre who can win the NCAA l\lt•n"s Foil finals will begin at lwrs: womPn 's foil. and ml'n 's foilchampionships." II::!U, the Women's Foil at I p.m., 
l'pel' and sabre. ' 
Notre Dame's mtries, Mike and the finals in sabre and epee at "The intention here is to try tol\ll"Cahey and Pat Gerard. are two I ::!U. The Great Lakes Tour­promote the women as part of theof those top contenders. In epee, nammt will conclude with an tt•am t·ompetition," says DeCicco.
the Irish will fence two talented awards ceremony beginning in the ~·Then maybe somPday they can be
sophomores, Ed Fellows and Tim area of :1:15 p.m. 
mcluded as a part of the team in<;)ass. (;)ass was last year's 
"W(•'re irying to make their own event." .Junior Olympic champion and just l'vt'rything as easy as possible for 
FISTICUFFS Ll K E this will highlight the first round of the Bengal Bouts on Sunday. Opening round action will begin at 2 p.m. with over 20 fights slated. Tickets are $1.00 and $2.00. 
NCAA tix distribution set 
Ttl"kets for the first round game  Irish makl' it to the second round.  
ol llw NC"AA tournament will be  the first gamt• will be played on  
distributt>d to Notre Dame  Thursday. March :lO.  
~tudents on Monday, March tO  
!rom \1 a.m to 4::~o p.m. and TuPsday. 1\l<~n·h II from 9 a.m. to  Marx at FCA  
t:l noon at tht' upstairs ticket  1\llkc McCoy of the Green Bay  
wmdow in the AlT.  l'ackers land former Notre Dame  
Ttl"kl'ls will l'ost $5.00 for both  :\11-Aml'ricanl will speak to the  
gamt•s at Oral Hoberts University  :\otre llaml' chapter of the  
on !\larch 15. Tickets will he  1-'dlowship of Christian Athletes  
distributl'd on a first come first  1J<TA l on Tuesday. March 11. The  
~l'rw basis with only one ticket per  mt•eting will begin at 9 p.m. in the  
~tudl•nt. Each student must  chapel of St. Ed's Hall. Greg  
pn•sent his own J.D.  1\larx. another Notre Dame All·  
Should Notre Dame make it to  Aml'rican, will introduce McCoy to  
lhl' second round of the playoffs at  the audience. All students, faculty  
NPw MPxico State University in  and others are invited to attend the  
Las Cruces. tickets will go on sale  session.  
at the upstairs ticket window  Over $1,000 was collected by  
l\londay. March 17 from 9 a.m. to  mt>mbers of the FCA for the Third  
4::!0 p.m. and Tuesday, March 18 from 9 p.m .. to 12 noon.  . World Fund. The funds for theiworld's hungry were provided by  
Ttckets will cost $12 for all four  t spectators at the Irish cage con­ 
games and will be distributed  tests. Jim Early, FCA captain,  
again on a first come first serve  t•xpressed his thanks and ap­ 
basis with only one ticket per  preciation tFi> all who contributed  
student. Each student must  and to the workers who did the  
present his own J.D. Should the  l"Ollecting.  

SCIII>;DULE  
I<'RIDAY, MARCil 7, 1975  
4:00P.M.  First Round  3 pools in each men's weapon. Top six fencers in each pool qualify for second­round action.  
4 pools in Women's Foil. Top five fencers in each pool qualify for second­round action.  
7:ao P.M.  SN·ond Round  3 pools in each weapon. Top four fencers in each pool qualify for semi­finals.  
SATURDAY, MARCil 8,  1975  
9:30 A.M.  Semifinals  2 pools in each weapon. Top three fencers in each pool qualify for final round.  
11:30 A.M.  Finals-Men's l<'oil  
1:00 P.M.  Finals-Women's Foil  
1:30 P.M.  Finals-Sabre & Epee  
3:15 P.M.  Awards Ceremuny  





