
,.----~~---------------~ ---------­


the observer 
INSTY PRINTS 
203 N. MAIN ST. 
SOUTH BEND 289-6977 
,....................
~
I AN ICE CREAM SPECIAL S
I BUY ONE HOT FUDGE SUNDAy I
I AT AND GET ONE FREE I 
~ FARRELL'S ICE CREAM PARLOR ~ I SCOTTSDALE MALL 291-3800 I 
~...................................................................................................~ 
• You expect more from Standard : 
• d . •
• an you get 1t. 
TM • 
:at FLOYD'S STANDARD SERVICf;0t~: • 2830 Lincolnway West STANDARD • : Mishawaka, Ind. ~~~ : • Phone 255-0552 vw Service and Used VWParts • :: Inspection on Foreign and American Cars • 
• V W for SALE -Complete Car Repair -:
,.••••.......................... 
MEN-WOMEN 
I 
The world's largest I 
I
training school 
I 
is hiring. 
Where else can you learn the jobs listed below, and get paid while you learn? 
Electronics, Food Preparation, Law Enforc:e· ment Motion Picture Photogrc!iphy, M1ss1le Repair, Data Processin~. Truck. Driving~ Com­
/ munications, Construction, Radio Repa1r, Ad­ministration, Personnel, Accountmg, Truck Mechanic, Wire Maintenance, and over 300 others. 
Call Army Opportunities· 
232-1616 
Join the people who've joined the Army. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
LITURGICAL SCHEDULE 
SACRED HEART MAIN CHURCH 
June 23 through August 3 
MONDAY THRU SATURDAY. 
8:00a.m. MORNING PRAISE IN THE LADY CHAPEL 
11:15 a.m. CONFESSION 
11:30 a.m. MASS 5:00p.m. CONFESSION 5:15p.m. MASS 
7:00p.m. CONFESSION 7:15p.m. EVENSONG IN THE LADY CHAPEL (EVENSONG ON FRIDAY WILL BE CELEBRATED IN THE GROTTO) 
SUNDAY. 
9:00 a.m. MORNING PRAISE IN THE LADY CHAPEL 
9:30 a.m. MASS 
10:45 a.m. MASS 
12:15 p.m. MASS 
7:15 EVENSONG IN THE LADY CE, · 
, 



Dear Editor: 
As a new graduate student at N.D.U., I am delighted to be in a learning environment of high educational standards combined with spiritual intensity. I am, however, dismayed at the contents of Ken Bradford's June 19 article, Observer Controversy Settled." 
While it is true that a newspaper shouid write for a variety of readers, it is also true that it~ advertising should reflect the life styles and ideologies of its readers. Thus, news of the printing of a pro-abortion ad­vertisement in Notre Dame's Campus newspaper seemed entirely inconsistent, if not abhorrent, to the ideology a student should expect at a Catholic institution 
I do not agree that Mr. Pagna acted 
prudently in the removal of the newspapers 
containing the ad. I do applaud his for­
!brightness in laking social responsibility 
yielded by the editorial staff. 
The main issue here is not censorship (an 
unfortunate by-product), nor is it financial 
dealin~s of. either the alumni associatio~, 
the umverstly, or the newspaper. The mam 
issue is that an advertisement totally
contrary to the tenets of the Catholic Church· 
and to the Christian Ethic was printed in a 
newspaper which disseminates from a 
Catholic campus and serves, primarily, a 
Catholic readership. 
The fact that Mr. Graver says he did not 
find the advertisement offensive indicates 
that he has not assessed his readers; worse, 
perhaps he discounts their inclinations 
when newspayer finances are involved. 
The editor need not worry that censorship 
or university admonishment will "spell the 
death of the Observer." What will strike a 
death blow is the attitude that "Everything's fit to orint -· as long as it's paid for." Barbara J. Newman Graduate Student Communication Arts 
Dear Editor, 
As a fairly recent (class of '71) and concerned graduate of Notre Dame, I feel compelled to respond to the current con­troversy between the Observer and the Administration concerning the first sum­mer issue of the Observer. And my vote goes to the guys with the "black hats." 
Perhaps, what the University is objecting to is not the right of students to dissent, but the manner in which such dissent is carried out. I personally feel that a student in the Notre Dame Community has an inherent right, as a member of that community, to voice his or her objections about community affairs. 
But this right carries along with it a duty to act as a reasonably intelligent, mature person. In other words, conduct your acitvities with a little "class" so that all members of the Notre Dame Family can be proud of it whether they agree or disagree with its contents. 
The first summer issue of the Observer was a debacle both in content and presen­tation. It sounded like a bunch of little kids responding to a spanking from daddy. In 
addition to the immaturity that was manifested in its content, the writing was poor and the production was terrible. In short, it was a shoddy piece of journalism. 
1 think the University had a right and responsibility to object to its distribution to visiting alumni or to the cleaning ladies in Keenan Hall. It was a poor refleetion on the quality of student at Notre Dame. It was a poor rt;J;M¥:a!lll•riulitllo.Dillll.e------lll 
· · 
The Obl;tlrver is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by ·the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 8 dollars per semester (16 dollard per year) from The Db· server, Box Q Notre Dame Indiana 465?6. Second C.lass postage paid, 
Notre Dame. IN 46556 
After 36 years of marriage, Ann Landers has been divorced from her husband Jules. In a column dated July 1, Ms. Landers reveals to her readers that her marriage, which she had written about several times before, has fallen apart. 
"How did it happen that something so good for so long didn't last forever?" she writes. "The lady with all the answers does not know the answer to this one." 
Ms. Landers is not without a moral note to her tale. She tells her readers, "Never say 'It couldn't happen to us!' " 
The column is the shortest one that Ann Landers has ever written, and she has asked the editors of the pa"pers in which she is syndicated to leave the remaining space blank. ' "I ask that you do not fill this space with other letters," she requests. "Please leave it blank · a fitting memorial to one of the world's best marriages that didn't make it to the finish line." 
* 
Martin Mull, famous rock and roll star who make his first appearance in this column two weeks ago, is back in the news. During a recent performance at the Boarding House in San Francisco, Grace Slick, of the Jefferson Airplane, kept shouting and waving from her taMe. Then, during Mull's pseudo-gospel encore num­ber, "Jesus Is Easy,' Ms. Slick climbed onto the stage where, according to the Rolling Stone Magazine, she engaged in some impromptu testifying, first feigning a few grabs at Mull, then kneeling at his feet. 
After the show Grace followed Mull into his dressing room for what he described as a "chat." Bystanders, however, said Ms. Slick kept making advances to Mull. She finally had to be removed from the prt>mises. She then parked herself on the sidewalk in front of the club, yelling things which cannot be quoted in this newspaper. 
Mull, speaking from Chicago later in his tour, told Rolling Stone that he "was ap­preciative that any woman could come onstage in that state. Being that it was the state of California.' As for Grace, she told Rolling Stone that anything anybody said she did after nine o'clock that night was probably true. 
* 
A man in Chicago attempted, on Monday, 
to hijack a Chicago Elevated Train. After 
being asked for the-fare by a conductor, the 
man, dressed in a yellow knit sweater on a 
ninety degree day, refused to pay and pulled 
a gun. Unwittingly, he had hijacked the 
train. He called for it to stop, but then 
realized that there was no place for him to 
go but down once he got off the train.. He 
then told the conductor to stop at the next 
station, but the train was an express , and 
was not on the proper tnck to. stop at a 
station. Finally, the operator stopped the 
train close to a station, and the man hopped 
over several tracks, climbed onto the 
platform, and ran away. 
CTA officials were quoted as saying, "We 
knew he wasn't going to Cuba." 
* 
The following was excerpted from a loan agreement for a building project in Greenwhich, Connecticut: 
Any condition of this Agreement which requires the submission of evidence of the existence or non-existence of a specified fact or facts implies as a condition the rxistence or non-existence·, as the case may be, of such facts or facts and the Lender shall, at all times, be free independently to t>stablish to its satisfaction and in its ab· solute discretion such existence or non-t>xistenct>. 
*** 
, <# p I' I ,I I I I ' I I • ~ ' •. 
, ") .. , "'l • .., • ., ~, -. -. ~. • ~. r, •. •. P f r ,.-r ~ f I 1 
. ' • '' ".' ' . • • • . • • ' .... ·' .••~ ·' .....~ "'' ,.. •••• J •••••~ • • • • • • • ' 
' '
...
,,·. ,., 
Thursday, July 3, 1975 
In Boston 
Notre Dame student attends 
National 
Women's Political 


Mary Kane, a sophomore at the 
University of Notre Dame, joined over three thousand politically concerned women at the second annual convention of the National Women's Political Caucus, held last week in Boston, Massachusetts. According to Kane, the main goals of the caucus were to prepare and update their constitution, elect a new chair, work out plans for passage of the Equal Rights Amendment and prepare women to maximize their political strength in the upcoming presidential election. 
Kane, a member of the South Bend -Mishawaka Women's Political Caucus , joined seven other women in their journey to the Boston convention. Mary's mother , Patricia Kane, is a board member of the South Bend chapter and was an official delegate to the convention. The women flew down three of the workshops. "They were all ver interesting and I only ~ 



i:JOxoacaiCOICOICIOICIOICIOICiooaooaooaoaoaocooo~=~a~axa:~ecxaxaiO 
wish l would have had time to attend all of them," she said. 
One of the workshops attended by Kane dealt with passage of the ERA in 1976. "They stressed the fact that if the amendment was going to be passed it would have to 
"The main point of this seminar was that women should demand to comprise at least fifty per cent of the task forces most candidates are promising to investigate the problem of rape in tthe United States." 
Of all the workshops she at­tended, Kane found the one on abortion to be the most interesting. 
"The main point of this seminar was explaining how to work with candidates on the abortion issue," said Kane. She said that there were three speakers who explained how to make political candidates feel at ease with the abortion issue. 
"They stressed the fact that women should not settle for compromise on this particular issue," she noted. 
Accordng to Kane, they pointed out the fact that whereas Congress had only twenty-eight "Right to Lifers" last . year, this year's number has nsen to forty. Also,
President Ford is a perfect example of the shift on the abortion 
issue and what  a  long  way  the  
causus  has  to  go  to  rectify  the  
situation.  

"The caucus has the respon­sibility to work for nationwide acceptance of the Freedom of Choice rights," said Diana Hart, Planned Parenthood's representative at the workshop. ·She also noted that abortion is a test issue for candidates worthy of caucus support. It was also pointed out that abortion is often turned into an "Umbrella issue.z" "They told us to be alert for candidates who may use it as an excuse not to act on other women's issues," said Kane. 
Another important issue at the caucus was the idea of elderly women being accepted and en-
I 
~ 

" ••• it is a great sign when women con come together I in a mood of decisiveness and accomplishment." ~ 
on a chartered flight along with women representing the other local chapters of the organization across the state of Indiana. 
The theme of the 1975 convention was "Win with Women in '76" and according to Kane, the main thrust of the convention was training to get women elected and using the strength of unified women to select the best qualified candidates in the 1976 elections. She noted, however, that there was a bit of restlessness because of the fact that the In­ternational Women's Year Con­ference was being held simultaneously in Mexico City. 
"Many of the prominent women 
in American politics were either at 
the conference in Mexico City or 
wishing they were there," said 
Kane. The Chicago Tribune 
described the International con­
ference as being riddled with 
"anger, frustration, and even 
fisticuffs at the political level." 
The newspaper further stated, 
"Yet on the personal level there 
was a widespread feeling of 
communication and sisterhood." 
Kane explained that Frances 
"Sissy" Farenthold, chairperson 
of the conference was succeeded 
by Audrey Colom, a young black 
Republican woman from 
Washington D.C. Kane explained 
that Colom promised the con­
vention the aggressive leadership 
they were looking for. 
A major part of the convention 
was the presentation of different 
workshops, each dealing with 

be in 1976," she noted. Kane also noted that the women were warned not to be duped by candidates who use other issues, such as abortion, to change the subject from the Equal Rights Amendment. 
The amendment must be ratified 

by four more states before it goes 
into law. According to Kane, the 
main goal in this area will be to 
defeat state legislators who vote 
against the amendment. 
Another workshop Kane at­

tended dealt with the issue of ra~. 
dorsed. "The point was stressed ~ 
that olde~ wome~ ~ften feelleft out j!!of Amencan pohtlcs and even of ~ women's caucuses," said Kane. j!!One of the demands presented was l 
that women receive fifty per cent of their husband's pension. Kane also noted that there were very few college-age del<!gates present at the convention. "Most of the women were between the ages of forty and sixty," she said. Mary Kane noted the fact that as with any convention, many of the dele ates soon became bored with 

IUSB PLAYERS GUILD 
Shoestring Theatre Presents 
"A DAY IN THE DEATH OF JOE EGG" 
by Peter Nichols protluced in cooperation with S••ual French Inc. 
OPENS Friday June 27 
Running Sal June 28, Sun. June 29, Fri. July 4, Sal July 5, Sun. July 6 
performances start at 8:15 Little Theater 
entrance on greenlawn 
All Tickets S1.50 -Call 237-4396 For Reservations 
Caucus 

all the parliamentary procedure. "However, I feel it is a great sign when women can come together in a mood of decisiveness and ac­complishment," she said. 
ND-SMC THEATRE 
FOR YOUNG PEOPLE .JACK AND THE 
BEANSTALK 
.Junt' 25, 28, July 2,5,9 
Weds. & Sats. at 2:00P.M. 
ALL SI<:ATS .75 
LITTLE THEATRE 
Sl. Mary's College 
Phone: 284-4176 

the observer 
3 
MOTORCYCLE OWNERS 
CHECK THESE IATES! 
'76 :Per Year
126-200cc Fun Coveragesas Per Year
201-360cc ·;, full Coverage SJJl 
Per Year
361-SOOcc Full Coverilge 501•750cc '145 p,;; full 
•
Year Coverage 
751•1000cc 1115 P&r Full
Y&Or Coverage 

Per Fuh0Ylr 1000cc .228 Year Cov..roge 
1Above rate1 ore based on new bd,e•, 
lener rote\ for blke• over I B mo. old. 
Complete protection by 
PETE CLARK 
INSURANCE AGlNCY 1104 lilhlw•ka lrL ~, r..... lkl Ph. 289-7213 

XEROX COPIES 
14" x 18" Capability 
Blueprint Se"ice 
COPY Resumes, Thesis, Class Notes, Reference Materials and 
YOUR: Bound Volumes 

r4epro~rap-ics 
OF. SOUTH BEND 630 E. Colfax Ave. 287-4118
r.................CHECK'OUT..................1 iHOPS N' SPIRITSi 
THIS WEEKS SPECIAL  I  
6 PACK OF COKE IN CANS FOUR POPULAR BEERS  99'  ~ I  
AT FOUR !>PECIAL PRICtS  I  

WE SEll KEGS AT THE CHEAPEST~~ 
pRICE· IN TQWN 812 E LASALLE AVE 287 2581 J 
• --~---....~-••=••=•~•.._......_.._W 
Reserve 
your job 
for fall now. 
With the Army's Delayed Entry Program, you can come down now and pick the job you want. And if you qualify, we'll hold it for you-for up to 270 days, depending on the job you choose. 
Then you can relax and enjoy the summer without worrying about what you'll be doing when it's over. 
When you do come in the Army, you'll also have a salary of:$344.10 a month before deduc­tions waiting for you. Plus f~ee meals, housing, health care and 30 days paid vacation. And if you'd like to try college while you're in, we'll pay up to 75% of your tuition for you. 
Call Army 
Sgt. Bills, Sgt. Stone, Sgt. Green 
232-1616 
Join the people who've joined the Army. 

the observer 

r"9~~-1 Engineering course offered 




1EXPERIENCED 1fo high school girls 

lcALL: 233-8512~ 
l~....'-'-'-"...,.._'-.,....J 
STARTS FRIDAY STREISAND &CAAN 
,)/-.1~ e-'lfiU< Qetl 
Foreign Car Parts Co. 
) Parts & accessories for imported car " ..ion•' for all makes at lowest prices. 
by Su.-Zwick Production Manager For the second consecutive 
summer, the Notre Dame College of Engineering is offering high school senior girls an opportunity 
to view career possibilities 
Engineering. The program, a three-week course entitled, "In­troduction to Engineering," is offered for two sessions, from June 22 to July 11, and from July 13 through August 1. 
Distributor 
************************* 
: For all Students. Faculty & Staff, a 10 :
* pt>rct>nt discount with ID and purchase of * 
*$10 or mort> * 
\***********************. 
215 Dixie Way N Roseland' So. Bend 
NowaBose Direct/Reflecting bookshelf speaker and its under $100. 
If you thought it couldn't be done, you don't know BOSE. 
Because the new BOSE MODEL 301 speaker is just that. A 
bookshelf speaker that provides reflected and direct sound 
performance in the tradition of the internationally-famous 
BOSE 901® and 501 speakers. 
It provides such astounding performance for its size that, frankly, it's hard to believe that this speaker costs under $100. But it does. And, it's easy to place and can be adapted to all room environments. 
Come in this week and ask to hear a demonstration of the new BOSE MODEL 301 Direct/ 

421 North Hickory Rd. (WEST OF TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER) 
Scottsdale Mall 
.. '·" 

The program, under direction of college life" and are disappointed Dean Ettore Peretti and Dr. Jerry at the lack of social activities. As Marley both of the Engineering one girl explained, "If there were Department', is aimed at en-more people here, it would be couraging women to enter the field better. We have alot of free time, by presenting an informal and don't really know what to do examination of the facets of with it." modem engineering. The program Jamie Hanzakos, a high school is largely composed of lectures by senior from Grosse Point, Notre Dame faculty involved in Michigan, stated, "I've met some different fields of engineering, real nice girls, but I think we're all women engineers and three field out of place, out of home." "Three trips. weeks is an odd amount of time to 
The program is offered to a spend -you can't really know any limited number of girls from all place well," added another girl. parts of the country. Notre Dame The girls agreed that dormatory solicits several high schools and life was an attractive aspect of the the girls are briefed on the program. "For once, I'm living program by their chemistry and with friends and no one is telling physics teachers or high school me what to do." stated one senior. guidance counselors.. Those who The secluded atmosphere of the 
express an interest are invited to apply. 
The program is structured for 9, 10, and 1 o'clock classes. The 9 o'clock class, taught by Dr. Marley of Civil Engineering, is devoted to instruction in the operation and uses of various computers. The 10 o'clock class features guest speakers who lecture on the different aspects of engineering and the opportunities available. At 1 o'clock, the girls return to lab to work out the computor problems explained in the 9 o'clock class. They remain at lab until they solve the problem, which take some of the girls until dinner. 
The first field trip is scheduled for Wednesday, July 2, to the Cook Nuclear Center in Michigan. Two field trips are planned for the last week, on July 8, to the Bendix Corporation Laboratory in Michigan and July 9 to the Proctor and Gamble Corporation and the 
Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago. 
The girls are presently housed on the second floor of Breen-Phillips Hall for the first three-week session. Meme Hanson, a junior at Notre Dame majoring in Metallurgical Engineering and Sue Hicks, a junior in Architecture, are the two resident assistants assigned specifically to the Engineering program. Both girls attended similar programs as high school seniors and felt they were beneficial in helping decide on their fields of study. 
The girls are happy with the program, but opinions are divided on the advantages. They feel they are not getting a "real taste of 
· I
I~--------------------------------------. 
iI Cavalier !I I Camera i 
I I
! Scottsdale Mall ! 
I next to I
. I 

' Bishop's Buffet I1 
I1 0 pen Till 111 9 pm Eveningsl 
5 pm Sunday 1

I I 1 I 
Camera l1 and Darkroom Supplies 
-----------·-------------~--·---··-----1 
campus is inviting, although, "there are only so many times you 
=--.,..-----.------------------;;::--, 

can walk around the lake," one I interes~ was not in the pro,gram as 
student added. 
The girls are restricted by hours and are expected to be in their rooms by midnight on weekdays, and 2:ooam on Friday and Saturday . The restrictions, they stated, are flexible and have not inhibited some of the girls from finding their way to the other dormatories for weekend parties. There is no "studying" required in their work, so evenings are free to be filled with trips to Scottsdale Mall or McDonalds or "whatever w~ can find that's happening." 
Most of the girls attending are interested in Engineering but until now had no concept of the op­portunities involved. They are not expected to apply to the Univer­sity, although advanced placement 
and freshman credit may be given for those who complete the course. 
None of them have applied  to  a  
college yet but  a  few  are  con­ 
sidering Notre Dame.  

Jamie Hanzakos explained, "The real reason I came was not to 
1 
see Notre Dame; I just wanted to see for myself if maybe this was for me. I'm interested -in other programs but it's time I decided what I wanted to do." 
Lenore Honzik, a senior from 
· Milwaukee, Wisconsin agreed with Hanzakos. "I'm interested in Engineering but not quite sure. would like to go to Notre Dame, though," she stated. Her interest in the field grew from her older sister, an Engineering major presently attending Marquette University, she explained. 
Karen Luhrman stated that her 
much as the University. "I'd like to come to Notre .Dame, but not 
for  Engineering."  After  a  
moment, she added,  "Maybe  
for fun."  

A number of girls felt such a program was a good opportunity to be exposed to a new field, although they agreed that such a limited glance at the profession was "not really what it is like." They agreed the program did not en­courage them to study Engineering. "It just offered me another option." one girl observed. 
Most of the girls stated they would not reach a decision on a field of study after the three-week program, and probably not until they started seriously searching for colleges. 


Unfinished Business 
• 
Howard Glickstein is Director of the howard glickstein 
Notre Dame Center for Civil Rights. 
We too often forget that the Declaration of Independence was not referring to Blacks and women when It proclaimed that "all men are created equal." Thomas Jefferson, one of the authors of the Declaration, wrote: 
"Were our state a pure democracy there would still be excluded from our deliberations women, who, to prevent deprivation of morals and ambiguity of Issues, should not mix promiscuously In gatherings of men." The status of Black Americans was defined In the Infamous Dred ScoH decision where the Supreme Court said that Blacks "had no rights which the white man was bound to respect." No wonder Frederick Douglass could say: "This Fourth of July Is yours, not mine ..... The sunlight that brought light and heating to you, has brought stripes and death to me." 
Our concept of equality has broadened and deepened since the American Revolution, but we have a tong way to go to 

ng the benefits of that revolution to those 
have been left out. It Is white males 
benefit from the Independence we 
leved nearly 200 years ago. And It Is 
males who have developed a vast 
arsenal of discriminatory devices to Insure 
that their privileged positions are not 
threatened by minorities and women. 
Although we have broken down a number of 
barriers to equal opportunity, mere equality 
Is not enough to overcome our racist and 
sexist past. 
When a society has committed past In­justices or when historically disadvantaged groups exist side by side with more ad­vantaged groups, It simply Is not possible to achieve equality and fairness by suddenly starting to act In an evenhanded manner. Strong, affirmative steps are required to overcome and reverse the Imbalance that has been created In favor of white males. 
The basic question today Is whether our Nation Is ready to tolerate some short­range, temporary disadvantages for white males In order to overcome the well en­trenched affects of past discrimination. Unless we are prepared to Implement a 1976 concept of equality, the future of our country Is In Jeopardy and we never will achlev~ the "domestic tranquility" promised by our Constitution. 

America's Middle Age 
Dick Conklin is Director of the Notre Dame Information Services. 
When the lilst medal has been minted, when the last television crew has left the last reenactment, when the last bank has given out the last ersatz 18th century clock, what will America's Bicentennial have left us .. apart from several hundred thousand bored citizens? 
I have never been much on birthdays, not even my own. Yet, I do find them handy as benchmarks from which one can take stock of his life. The number of nations born since World War II means that America at 200 Is probably approaching middle age. So If there Is anything like a climacteric for a nation, we might be In ours. 
dick conklin 
It can be an opportunity, then, to see how we have lived up to our ambitions. This Is not necessarily an act of flagellation. In many areas --political and press freedom, to name two --our achievement Is remarkable. But we need to look far -­Ingrained racism, festering prisons, decaying cities, global Injustice--to see the bitter truth in Lincoln's assessment of us as "an almost chosen nation." 
Before the boredom sets In, let us con­template how much better as a people -­especially as a purported Christian society­-we should be.... can be. 



he Bicentennial 

Mystery Train 
Fred Graver is the Editor of the summer Observer. 
Is It too much to hope that this country w111 be able to celebrate Its bicentennial without the stains In Its fibre showing? 
Take the American Freedom Train (see page 10). As far as I can tell, the Train Is a very good Idea In what has so far proved a wasteland of thought as to how we're going to celebrate our 200th birthday. But, from Its very Inception onto the way It Is being run as It crosses the country, the Train Is falling again and again onto the tired old tracks of American ways. 
The Train claims to be a non-profit, non­political proJect. But It seems to be neither. There Is a $2.00 per head admission price, which they claim goes into operating costs. All excess, the group says,. will go towards charity. Well, whetther it goes to charity or not, there will be a profit make on the ad­mission, and on the Pepsi they sell at trackslde (the project was made possible, In part, by a large contribution from Pepsi Cola Co.), and on the "quality souvenirs," If this is supposed to be a means of bringing America's birthday celebratto.n to the home town of everybody, there has to have been some way they could get rid of that ad­mission price. 
With the millions and billions of dollars the government throws around every year, don't you think there could have been some way they could have found a means to fund the Train? How about the local com­munities? Couldn't they have pitched In? When was the last time you has to pay two bucks to celebrate your own birthday? 

Ronald Weber is Director of the American Studies department and Co-Chairman of the Notre Dame and 'St. Mary's Bicentennial Committee. 
It Is hard to get decently worked up about the Bicentennial. 
In most ways It Is another of the pseudo events that media-drenched society seems to specialize In, having almost no real meaning. At best It Is a ceremonial oc­casion, a ritual attempt to recall a fine but 

, distant and perhaps largely lrrelevent 
At worst It Is another way of drum­

ming up business, a sleazy shot In the arm 
a flagging ecomony. 
ble people should probably look the 
way while the Bicentennial goes on 

and on and on. They might take whatever 
small good comes from It--some historical 
of how the nation aot underwa·y, some 
ronald weber 
understanding of the Immense social change from then until not--but mostly they should go about thler normal business. Let others dress up In old duds and speak about glorious times and noble men. 

Yet one hates to give In to total cynicism. One wants to believe the past can have something to say to the present. One hates to be wholly out of step with the patriotic zeal of one's countrymen, no matter how corny or downright phony. 
American optimism being what It Is, one wants to believe that even the worst situations can be redeemed, that even ritual nonevents can be the stimulus to Im­provement. The Notre Dame community, like most others,. Is not Immune to the country's Infectious hopefulness. 

So amid doubt and disinterest a Bicen­tennial activity Is underway here. Its main feature will be an academic conference and cultural festival from March 7 to 11 of next year. The theme of the conference will be "An Almost Chosen People: The Moral Aspirations of Americans" and It will ab addressed by a ·.number of well-known academic and national leaders In the areas of literature, theology, ,history, ,politics, science, business, end the social sciences. 
The main Idea of the conference Is to promote some serious thought about the role of moral aspiration In American culture, 
fred graver 
from the start, as they've stayed out of any bicentennial project. (One wonders If they're just lazy, or If they are just so vapid upstairs that they don't know wh_at to do with the occasion.) And they claim that the Train Is non-political. Which Is why/they've Included, along with the historic speeches of Presidents Roosevelt and Kennedy, the monumental Inauguration speech of President Ford. If I were running for President In '76, I'd demand that they either take Ford's subtle campaign message off the train, or put one of my speeches right alongside his. 
Though It Isn't mentioned In any of the press releases, It will be Interesting to see what Is on the train about VIetnam. Or about the civil rights struggles of the sixties. 
Beyond Hank Aaron's baseball bat and some moon rocks, there are some very sensitive Issues which the Train will have to confront. Will we see an historical whitewash or an honest attempt to convey what those events and struggles mean to the history of this nation? 
So It goes with part of the country's 200th birthday celebration. The Train Is such a fine Idea, when It comes down to the Idea of a festival-carnival of history on wheels, picking up on the spirit of a growing America, on the spirit of growing Americans (are we any older and any wiser?) as It moves through the nation. But there are just so many things that could go wrong. 
It could turn out to be so, well, so 
both In the Revolutionary past and In 


Watergaet-VIetnam present. Such a 
seems appropriate for Institutions 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. One Is 
tempted to think It might be a wort'hwhl 
consideration for the society as a whole. 
Coupled with the conference will 
several cultural events--a play, art nA'""'""' 
exhibits, concerts, poetry readings. 
there will be a worship service, 
keyed ot 18th-century liturgical practices, 
Sacred Heart Church. 
Will It all matter much? The tlrl•llht-t~v...­
answer Is yes, the cynical one no. The 
one hopes against hope, might 
somewhere In between. 
the observer 
Those who despaif of finding clarity and candor on the right" wing just haven't been reading James Burnham. Through all the last face-saving slaughter in Indochina, he pointed out the obvious to his blind colleagues: that putting off the inevitable was just a way of compounding mistakes. 
Now, in "National Review," he has cut through the CIA's hysteria over ex-agent Victor Marchetti's book, "The CIA and the Cult of Intelligence," Burnham calls Marchetti's book, which the CIA tried to terminate with prior constraint, "the best I have read about the CIA." High praise indeed, since it comes from a former CIA official. Mr. Burnham recruited William 
Buckley in the CIA, before Buckley went to 
autrider 

Right-wing Critic of the CIA 
Mr. Burnham thinks the whole in­
telligence community should have its 
budget cut in half--which would more than 
halve the f:II\'~ hefty share. He thinks the 
covert ~d ·. i..) s!-lould be severed from the gathering and analysis of information. For that matter. ;,c says, most of the covert action shoulo not have been covert in the first place--"everyone interested knows who is involved anyway." 
It is odd that Mr. Burnham, having stripped the CIA of the major part of its budget and covert activities. wants to 
work for E. Howard Hunt. Criticism of the CIA, when it comes from such a source, carries special weight. 
Burnham's criticism comes under nine headings. The agency is bloated, redun­dant, and self-protective. Its intelligence function is perverted by its covert actions function-the intelligence is skewed to justify the actions. 
art buc:hwald Where Are My
Files ?(pt. 1)
seriausly! faI k s 
Everyone worth his salt in Washington believes the FBI CIA State Department and IRS keep voluminous files on him. 'Most people may pretend they're furious about anyone monitoring their activities. But in their hearts it's a great ego builder to know that Big Brother considers them important enough to keep tabs on them. · 
I have to confess I also have felt this way. In my fantasies I have always thought that there is a giant computer buried at Mt. Weather.in the West Vii:ginia mountains whose sole function is to keep track of everything I write, say or do. This computer is working day and night and is being fed by thousands of federal bureaucrats who have been assigned to me because I am con­sidered the most dangerous man in Washington. 
Soon after the Freedom of Information Act was passed, making it possible for American citizens to demand to know what data the 
government kept on them, I wrote letters to the FBI, CIA, State 
Department and IRS requesting my files. I offered to pay the cost of research (each agency has its own rate card) and told them I expected the information within 10 working days as the law provided. 4. 
All of them responded to the request and said they would get back to me as fast as possible. As I read their letters I imagined the ~haos I was causing at State, Langley (CIA headquarters), the FBI and the IRS. Meetings were probably going on to discuss how much in­formation could be released withouthurting national security. 
I was sure Henry Kissinger would Insist on dealing with my State Department files personally. Bill Colby at the CIA would have to call back Dick Helms from Teheran. Clarence Kelley would pull a dozen agents off the Patty Hearst search to comply with my request, and the IRS would have to stop giving rebates in order to make the 10-day deadline. 
But 10 days later I heard from the four agencies. They all needed continue the agency at all. He asks for drastic reform; but the ethos of the agency is established. The secrecy and self­protecting traits he attacks are enough to foil any nearly partial efforts at correction. Just finding out all that is wrong is probably impossible at this juncture. It would be far easier to fold the CIA and set up that Jeaner, open kind of intelligence unit Mr. Bur­P.ham's reforms are aimed at. 

The history of bureaucratic reform, even where the discipline of secrecy has not been developed as a cult, makes it totally unrealistic to think Mr. Burnham's changes could take place in Mr. Burnham's old place of employ. 
How many presidents have tried to reform the State Department? How many bureau heads have tried to get a handle on HEW? How many secretaries of defense have tried to reduce the demands of com­peting armed services? They all failed; yet felt they could not, despite acknowledged abuses, abolish these recalcitrant agencies. No such qualms are justifiable in the case of the CIA. Abolition would not be an attack on our security, as the president claims. Mr. Burnham demonstrates that the CIA in its present form is a poor guardian of that security. We could create a better, once we got rid of the worse. 

lanr:~ shats Monkey Business 
t:any prascia 

Now that Watergate has sent the bloodhounds sniffing after politicians and underworld chiefs are turning up in government trench coats, it may not be long before we have to let go of some old ideas about crime. 
Sounds heavy. But while the problem of government lawbreaking can be disturbing, Washington shenanigans may at least make us more tolerant. We may, in the end, even come to think of it all as normal. 
Last week, for example, after the Supreme Court ruled that Kenneth Donaldson had been committed to a mental home in violation of his civil rights, Donaldson told reporters that most inmates were "normal people" like himself, confined in in­stitutions "no better than prisons." 
Ninety per cent of them, he said, were "no different from the people on Pennsylvania Avenue." 
But the fact is that real prisons are packed with people who u~ed to work on Pennsylvania Avenue and they're getting more of them all the time. Little can be said of America's mental patients if 90 per cent of them are indistinguishable from politicians. It may well be time to apply Buchwald's prison reform to asylums as well and administer admissions tests to prospective inmates. 
O(JT 
ANOTH~ 
1410~.'­

WHm? THeRe­
~NO! IUAV~OF 

IT'S THe me POINT/ 
Jl/STPAST 
MARIN&S? 
PRESS/
\ I
I 
I 
more time. Robert Young, whose title at the Central Intelligence Agency is Freedom of Information Co-ordinator, wrote, "I assure you that we are continuing to process your request, but this work 
.. ArANY RAT~ AS OF
DOONESBURY 
THIS MORNING, Tfi!R£ 1/R£ M? MARIN£5 UFTON lJI/3 
has not yet been completed. We have received hundreds of 
requests, each which requires a thorough search of records and a 
IStANP! ANY OTH/3R (}(1£5­
thoughtful review of any material located". 
.. 1/0NS?.. Y/35-YOf/ IN
Barbara Ennis of the State Department wrote that my file was at the Federal Records Center in Suitland, Md.' and retrieval would take longer than expected. 
Clarence Kelley of the FBI wrote me personally (at least his signature was on the letter), telling me it would take at least'30 days to find my files (no wonder they're having so much trouble finding Patty Hearst). 
I decided to give them all the extension they asked for out of the goodness of my heart. I assumed there was so much data on me no agency could find everything in the lo-day period. 
But I must say I was starting to worry about my government. Suppose I were a spy or a tax evader or an agitator. It seemed to me I could skip the country before anyone could get their hands on my files. I made up my mind that after I got the information they had on me, I would call for a complete investigation of all federal 
Nll SIR. Bl/T
filing systems. 
AAIIC? H/3 COt/t.P 

rv. . STAYATMY all those people in government poring over my data, working late 
The following days were pleasant ones for me. I kept thinking of 
\ MOlH..._EI?'S.. 
into the night, collating the raw files that they had collected over a period of 26 years. 
There would probably be shocks and gasps from the younger llesearchers who weren't used to handling such sexy stuff. But I figured if they were in the Freedom of Information business, they would have to get used to it. 
Just as I was about to lose hope, the first file arrived. It was from ~he CIA. My hands trembled as I opened the large brown envelope. I started to read. 


~--------------------------------------~----~----------------------------------------------------------------­
~hunday, July 3, 1975 
the observer 
7 
--·--------­

Wallace Among the Pointyheads 
t;~arry wills 
dicided he had to save these precious documents, the fruit of his own verbalizing. 

George Wallace has a slick little So he gave the cartons to the Nabam-a pitch now. He claims he is no longer against . State Archives--to the eggheads. For a blacks. Now he is against "elitists." what price, of course. Wallace drew from the does he mean by that? He has opportunistic government the "unproductive" kind of little verbalizers trotting around after him pay his apologists are attacking. So to tell us that he is against "verbalizers," Wallace, the great enemy of federal tax Ihl' non-productive people who draw loopholes for; the pointyheads, wrote off government money for do-gooder projects. $30,000 in 1969 for his own donation to Those on foundations and in universities, t>ggheadery. Not bad for some boxes of those who get big tax exemptions. newspaper cliP.pings. Next time Wallace 
Well, it turns out that one of the more tax-tells you now the government is soaking all rewarded verbalizers of our time is George the little folk, remember that one of the Wallace himself. You see, he has all these soakers-up of that government largess was cartons of government papers-much of pious George himself. them according to the librarian who Indeed, this may be just the first step. received them, mere news clippings about Wallace attached the kind of proviso to his the governor. In order to serve future papers that politicians have used in case a verbalizers --researchers, , university-whole library of their own is later types on government grants -Mr. Wallace established. He gave the papers, and took the cash; but is reserving the right to take was made of them. In other words, he gave
the papers back, just what Nison did. the gifL and kept it too. The State Archives Acutally, of course, the papers should men claim that permission is routinely belong to the state in the first place--it was granted, but when Stephen Brill, on state business that generated them. But assignment from 'New York Magazine Wallace not only gets paid for giving to the asked to look at the state's property, a state what should belong to it already. He 
Wallace aide told him the press would not be acutally gets paid for not giving it to the allowed to see this public property, state. 
I expect sleazy little dodges from George Wallace. What has he ever done to make us expect something different? But the 

I
In the case of Nixon, and of Hubert 
I
pointyhead defenders of his attacks onHumphrey, this kind of'' gift' was declared 

I
pointyheads should know better. Fromillegal. Both men had to return their tax 

l
some of them I expec'.ed a little honor. Itdeductions. The IRS does not seem to be 

I
turns out that mine was a foolish hope.

doing anything of the sort to George 
I
Wallace is the tar baby--and anyone rushing Wallace--perhaps because they fear ac­

j
to touch him now is going to be stuck to himcusations of political harassment. In other 

I
for a good long time, down there in the dirt. 

words, Wallace is not one of those "little Democrats tempted to cozy up to him shouldpeople" who have to obey the law. 
1
keep that in mind. You cannot wash a tarThe Wallace people claim he really did 

l
baby. You just make it stickier with thegive the papers to the archives--he just 

l
effort.

asked that he be consulted before any use 
l 
Who's Who 
But that's incidental. The real problem is not that there are too many people in outhouses, but that we're still unable to tell who's nuts and who isn't. The problem is the same for criminals. Con­fusion only increases when government officials end up in the brig, since it is more and more difficult to tell who's making laws and who's breaking them. 
Some may still think that insanity and criminality are deviant, 
but when deviance is fashionable --witness Alice Cooper and Earl 
Butz --we n&ed to face the question of how much lunacy we'll 
tolerate. It is no longer surprising that the number-one song in 
Chicago last month was about a transvestite. But should the 
transvestite win Daley's support for alderman, who knows how the 
ballots will go? Better gay than Republicann. 
Gallup Morality 
Not everyone agrees, of course. There are those who still point to Gallup's indignant 56 percent when Rep' Wilbur Mills was caught whooping it up in Washington last year. Middle-America rallied, 1h£'y say; this is still the land of Cotton Mather and Sam Ervin. 
But I hat's only half the story. When a wirephoto put Fanny Fox's topography on page one, some Gallup moralists thought they d been hasty. Most switched brave)y to "undecided." 
While it may be too soon to herald the unravelling of Old Glory's moral fabric, it is at least safe to say that face value <like dollar value) has nearly bottomed-out. At worst, mudslinging may cease to he news. At best, the skeletons could come out of their closets and run for office. 
make the most a candidates in 



-j ' 
I
buc:hwald 

j j I 
j
(c:ant.] 
Having applied to the CIA,FBI,IRS and State Department for any files they had on me under the Freedom of Information Act, I waited anxiously for thew to arrive. The first envelope, after a 20­day wait, came from the CIA. I must say I was disappointed because I expected a much bulkier package. After all, I had been 
stationed abroad for 14 years in Paris and I assumed they had kept daily track of all my acitvities. 
It turns out it was terribly meager pickings. The first item was a report from the Soviet Union quoting a Moscow radio staton quoting me about something innocuous I had written about the CIA in my column. I only received one mention in the three-page memorandum which was hardly worth the price of the Xeroxed pages. 
The second piece of paper in the file was a memorandum from Cord Meyer Jr. dated June 9, 1964. At that time Meyer's title was Chief of Covert Action Staff. I know Meyer worked for the CIA but wasn't sure what he did. We used to meet at parties and I was always sounding off about one thing or another just to make it look as if I knew something. 
From the memo it appeared that Meyer had had a conversation with Sen. Eugene McCarthy and myself. 
Meyer's conversation with McCarthy had been omitted, but mine was reported. It said "Mr. Buchwald added that it was his feeling that the policy control over the agency was not as close as it should be. He cited as an extreme example the claim of the Cuban exiles in the recent "Bay of Pigs" that they had been encouraged to proceed with the invasion even if the White House issued contrary orders. I stated that I was not personally familiar with the Cuban events, but it was my clear understanding that no such incitement 

-
to mutiny had ever been officially authorized, and that it was in­conceivable to thing that it had been." 
That was it! My entire CIA file. One lousy mention of the Soviet radio and a stupid conversation at a party with one of the agency's chief spooks when I was probably quoting 'Time orNewsweek magazine. Either the CIA had no interest in my activities or they had held back everything from the folder and sent me a few cigar ashes. 
I was heartbroken. If I had known Cord Meyer Jr. was reporting back to headquarters on what he heard at parties I sure as hell would have come up with something more interesting than some idle gossip about the Bay of Pigs. 
To add insult to injury, the next day I received a letter from the Internal Revenue Service which said: "Please be advised that we checked the indices of the former Special Service· Staff and the Baltimore District Intelligence Gathering and Retrieval System. These indices failed to disclose the existence of any record relating to Art Bucnwald." 
I couldn't believe it. Here I was, one of the foremost critics of the Johnson and Nixon administrations, and the IRS claimed it didn't have one piece of derogatory paper on me. 
Before I could digest this I heard from Barbara Ennis at the State Department. She informed me that if I sent a check for $21.50, she would send me everything the State Department had about me. 
I immediately dispatched $21.50 and waited breathlessly for the files. It arrived a week later. I'm almost ashamed to tell you what was in it. There were six Xeroxed copies of my passport ap­plications over the past 26 years and a letter from George Ball asking me if I would like to have lunch with him sometime. You'll have to admit that isn't much to show for someone who has knocked the heck out of American.foriengpolicy for a quarter of a century. 
So there you have it. In spite of the Freedom of Information Act, 
it's obvious no one in the government wants to tell me what they really have in their files on me. The big question is why? Is the stuff so hot that no one will take the responsibility for releasing it? Or perhaps the true files are in still another computer which the CIA, IRS and State Department don't know about. I can't believe 

.. 
someone who has had as exciting and meaningful a life as I have would be so totally ingored by the intelligence-gathering agencies of the United States. 
My only ace in the hole is that I still haven't hears from Clarence Kelley at the FBI. Knowing J. Edgar Hoover's penchant for details, I'm certain when the FBI sends over its files on me, it'll have to deliver them in aU-Haul. I can hardly wait, because I want to see if the FBI's reports on my sex life are as terrific as mine. 




t 
~ 
t 
t 
I t ~ 
I l l I 
~ 
I 
~ 
t 
t 
t 
I l ­
~ 
I 
l 
t 
t 
-
...­
-
Allen's Newest 
review by fred graver 
current criticism on Woody Allen n c;omething like this: Allen has been go. for too long, and has become too su ';ful, being the Jewish clown, the butt of .osmic joke, the schlm•=iel. It is time he 'N up and got out of thb rut. His jokes ar1 ·'aring thin. His two main areas of ins1. ation, New York City and the uniting of Ihe cosmic with the trivial, are over­worked and hackneyed. Woody Allen should either develop and grow out of this rut or go into tailoring. 
The best way to answer that criticism is to say: that may be true for you, but only because you are judging Allen on standards that don't fit him at all. You want him to develop into something that wouldn't be Woody Allen, but an Allen hybrid. Your 
dissatisfaction is not with Allen the writer , Allen the film-maker or Allen the clown, but with some mythical, image­like figure you have in your head. Something you think Woody Allen should be.~ 
The worst thing we can do to someone is to judge him, not on the quality of his work or if he is doing the best that he can, but on what we think he should be doing. Woody Allen's new book Without

i Feathers, is a fine selection from his writing over the last three years. There arel eighteen pieces in the book, all but five of :1 il which have been reprinted from various 
I ,." I magazines, the majority from the New 
i Yorker . Many of the pieces seem more like experiments in technique and content, and as such have an unfinished, unpolished feel to them. But they are all delightful. 
Whether one is reading Woody Allen, or watching one of his films, there is a per­vasive feeling that he is working on pure inspiration. He seems to be constantly taking the risk of working on the edge of his subconscious, hurriedly grabbing at anything it offers up to his imagination. But, upon closer examination, there is 

A evident the craftsman, the skilled writer or director, who has a firm grasp of his talent. 
I ~ 
~ 
I'll grant you right now that Allen is not Johathan Swift, nor Samuel Johnson. He is not even as good as Robert Benchley, when it comes to writing. But he is soundly based in the American tradition of humor, taking his place in the circle with Groucho Marx, 
S.J. Perlman, James Thurber and others. Of his contemporaries, Allen holds his own against the likes of Mel • Brooks, The Firesign Theatre and Monty Python, not to mention the consistently bad-taste National Lampoon. 
The difference between Allen and the latter group, and this is also the element which unites him closer to the former, is that Allen has begun to channel his in­dividual perspective, his personal

1viewpoint, more consistently and with a 
f greater attention to artistic quality than Mel 
! Brooks, National Lampoon, or the others. 
, That current line of criticism, then, seems 
to be coming from those who approach the firretrievably frantic humor of Firesign or Monty Python. We are in a time when people find it hard, if not totally impossible, to sit down and read humor. Television, film and the electronic media have all but taken the monopoly on comedy and satire. There are but a handful of humorists working in the essay form or in the dramatic form. It is a sign of our restless, impatient, careless times that people want their laughs dished up to them in a form that resembles 
<though it may -resemble, and then run at a much deeper level, as in the work of Firesign) the mindless machine-gunning of a riot squad. 
Allen is somewhat eclectic in his choice of media, and in the onslaught of one-liners and slapstick jokes that characterizes much of his otherwise philosophically-<>riented material,. But he is not eclectic in his at­tention to quality. He is a disciplined and careful creator. He is the preserver, the protector of a tradition that died somewhere in the 50's. 
The best pieces in the book are those in which Allen has not let his film-self get mixed up with his writer-self. There are instances in the book which are purely visual in inspiration, and instances which are purely literary. 
An example of the visual is a scene from the essay A Brief, But Helpful, Guide to Civil Disobedience. In speaking of hunger strikes, he writes: "The problem with the hunger strike is that after several days one can get quite hungry, particularly since sound trucks are paid to go through the street saying 'Um ... what nice chicken­umm ... some peas ... umm ... ' " 
The scene is right' out of Allen's movie "Bananas." 
An example of the literary is seen in the !Jarody "The Whore of Mensa," a piece written in the Raymond Chandler-John McDonald detective style. The story has to do with a detective who is sent out to break a ring of women who sell themselves for a "quick intellectual experience." An example of their work: fifty dollars for a night of discussing Melville -the shorter novels, Moby Dick. Symbolism's extra. At the end of the story he discovers the darker evil underlying the superficial one -a prime factor in the detective stories he is parodying. 
"But it wasn't just intellectual ex­periences -they were peddling emotional ones, too. For fifty bucks, I learned, you could 'relate without getting close.' For a hundred, a girl would lend you her Bartok records, have dinner, and then let you watch while she had an anxiety attack. For one­fifty, you could listen to FM radio with twins. For three bills, you got the works: A thin Jewish brunette would pretend to pick you up at the Museum of Modern Art, let you read her master's, get you involved in a screaming quarrel at Elaine's over Freud's conception of women, and then fake a suicide of your choosing -the perfect evening, for some guys. Nice racket. Great town, New York." 



But perhaps the finest piece in the book is an effort of the imagination, pure and simple. ... 
It is entitled If the Impressionists had been Dentists, and tells the story through the letters of Vincent VanGogh. (A technique which S.J. Perlman used to tell about Gaugin in Beat Me, Post­Impressionist Daddy, but that is neither here nor there.) An example: 
"Mrs. Sol Schwimmer is suing me because I made her bridge as I felt it and not to fit her ridiculous mouth! That's right! I can't can't work to order like a common tradesman! I decided her bridge would be enormous and billowing, with wild, ex­plosive teeth flaring up in every direction like fire! Now she is upset because it won't fit in her mouth! She is so bourgeois and stupid! I want to smash her! I tried forcing the false plate but it sticks out like a star burst chandelier. Still, I find it beautiful. She claims she can't chew ! What do I care whether she can chew or not!" 
Which all adds up to the fact that Allen is a prize, a natural resource that we chould not give up on. Read 'Without Feathers, and discover a tradition that has not yet died. 

Performing • • • 
inheret the wind 
preview by chuck rogers 

St. Mary's Little Theatre will stage its own fireworks this Friday night as the ND­SMC Summer Theatre group presents the Lawrence & Lee classic, Inherit the Wind. 
The 'play is based on the 1925 Scopes "Monkey Trials.'' When a young school teacher is put on trial for the "crime" of teaching Darwin's Theory of evolution in his classroom, the case soon receives national attention. Reporters and hawkers flook the town as the two Iegan giants of the day come to Hillsboro to argue the case. It is their struggle and that of the townspeople as they attmept to deal with the threats to their small world that provides the focus of the play. 
In the role of Matthew Harrison Brady, the grandstanding, Bible-quoting champion of the "ordinary folk," will be, Dr. Charles Ballinger, who was last seen as Andrew Wyke in the recent ND-SMC production of Sleuth." The role of Henry Drummond, the ornery and agnostic defense lawyer will be played by Dan Daily. Dan is remembered for his memorable performance as Don Quixote in this past spring's musical, The 
sleuth 
Man of La Mancha. 
Inherit the Wind takes on a speCial significance as we enter into the Bicen­tennial celebration. The facts upon which the play is based are very real parts of our American heritage. It was in fact almost 50 years ago this week that the jury selection for the actual trial took place. The themes and lessons in the play are as real now as they were back in 1925. According to Dr. Reginald Bain, chairman of the ND-8MC Speech & Drama department and director of the show, "this is not simply a play about what happens when someone teaches Darwin in the school, Inherit the Wind focuses on what happens when change occurs in our lives ...it is an insight into the microcosm of American life." 
This Friday night will offer a little bit for everyone: suspenseful courtroom drama, that old time religion, drum beating and soap box oratory. The fireworks begin at 
8:00 PM July 4th and they will continue through the 5th, 11th and 12th. 
review by fred graver 

The ND-SMC Theatre has ptu themselves in a breakneck schedule this summer. With four plays in seven weeks and a company of thirteen people, anyghing going wrong has the immediate potential for becoming a major disaster. 
And that's just what happened to their first play,Sleuth. With less than a week to go befqre the opening of the play, William McGlinn, playing Milo Tindle, became seriously ill and could not perform. The show's opening was pushed back a week, shortening the run to two performances. McGlinn was replaced by Dan Deziel, who had very little time to learn a very lengthy and complex role. Charles Ballinger, psychological warfare, played with deft and subtle touch by Ballinger and Deziel, ends in the second act as shallow games. But the fault lies in the play, and not with this production. 
Why Anthony Shaffer did not find some way to avoid the intermission in this play, and thus continue the tight construction and feeling of the first act, is beyond me. It makes the play seem so much less worthy of the sus(l-ense it builds. 
Milo's search for revenge in the second act is not clearly defined. He plays games with Andrew, and calls the police. In mixing the two, he leads himself to his death. bBut that bit of irrationality that leads to his 

playing the role of Andrew Wyke, was put in demise is somewhat foggy, and it becomes the position of learning how to react ot evident that Milo deserves the same sort of another actor, after having formed his exposition in the second act that Andrew character to play with McGlinn. recieved in the first. 
It's the kind of thing that could drive a Aside from that, the evening was very theatre group into the hospital for a long, good. The staging of the play was done well, long stay. But, to the credit of all involved, with the shchess-set desigh of Andrew's last weekend's performances of Sleuth study and the toned-down lighting lending came off exceptionally well. themselves pervectly to the action of the 
The prod c( f ul 1 fted play·
. u Ion was me ~c ous y cr~ ' It is good to see alive and well in the with an ey~ t?ward leadmg the audience summer and especially exciting to see a along the wmd1!1g corridors of this mystery. small co~pany of actors working 
to,!etl~er•l 
The only m~Jor fault with the pr~uction for an extended period of time. As was the pl~y I~elf. The second act Is very goes on, those who follow ~eak, considermg t~e po~erful effect of the will begin to see 1 believe first. What begms m the ' ' 
Charles explains state of Dean search committee 
by Andy Praschak Associate Editor 
and stated, "A searcn commmee for a permanent replacement for 

Isabel 'Charles, O.P., acting I retiring Dean Fredrick J. CrOsson, Dean of the College of Arts and which has been chaired By Dr. Letters, explained Wednesday, Charles, will continue its work." that definite procedures for con­tinuation of the search for a new dean are as yet uncertain, noting also that committee members "The search committee has only David Burrell and Thomas Werge a recommendation power while the will be on leave during the first final decision lies with the semester of the school year. President and Provost of the 
Charles, who headed the original University," she noted. She ex­search committee noted that they plained that it is also their finished their work and turned perogative to continue the search their suggestions over to Fr. as is not being done. ' 
Burtchaell and Fr. Hesburgh, to finalize the decision, in late April. She said that further instructions will come from Hesburgh and Burtchaell, both of whom are not now present at the University. 
Burtchaell is expected to return to lhe campus at the end of July. 
In a press release printed in The Observer on June 26, Hesburgh announced Charles' appointment 
Charles said that when the for three years on the English col}'lmittee handed in their faculty. When she came to the recommendations in April, they University in 1973 as assistant considered their work finished. dean she was the first woman to "The committee members agreed hold that position at Notre Dame. lhat their specific recom-Dr. Charles also holds a con­mendations would remain con-current appointment as associate fidential," she said. professor of English. 
Cancer cure researched 
at Notre Dame 
Antitumor agents hidden away in balloon-like artificial mem­branes may be more effective than free drugs in fighting cancer. 
Researchers at the University of Notre Dame are evaluating the use of liposomes --artificial cell membranes made in the laboratory from fatty acid molecules called phospholipids ­as carriers of drugs to specific tissues. 
Liposomes could have two major advantages in cancer chemotherapy. Their composition can be manipulated to make them fuse with specific tissue, which would allow drug treatment to be targeted. The other aspect is that because liposomes are made from lipids, which are very poor an­tigens, lhey should not cause an immune response in the body. Drugs which the body would try to destroy could be kept available in lhe circulation if enclosed in liposomes. 
Dr. Charles F. Kulpa, Jr.' who recently received a $34,078 Anna E. Burk Memorial Grant for Cancer Research from the American Cancer Society to support his in­vestigation, said that one problem with cancer chemotherapeutic drugs is that they can be very toxic because they affect all cells, not just cancer cells. "We're trying to develop a liposome that will fuse with a cell membrane and release the frug inside the cell to kill a virus or the cell itself," he said. "If you can deliver the drug ef­fectifely, then you can use lower doses that aren't harmful to the patient and at the same time in­crease the drug's efficiency.'' 
Kulpa said he is not developing 
better drugs, but simply trying to 
make existing drugs work better. 
"Anticancer durgs are useful only 
after the disease has been 
diagnosed. But if we can find a 
better way to deliver those drugs, 
we've certainly made the treat­
ment more effective." 
Right now, the Notre Dame scientist is working with cells in tissue culture. If the results continue to be promising, Kulpa said, the next step will be to ex­periment with the method by treating leukemia in mice. 
SERGEANT PEPPER 
PRESENT 
SUNDOWN 
MON. Thru SAT. OPENING JULY 7th 

Also.... 
Watch For The 
BIKINI BAR 
UN ESCORTED LADIES••• 

COOL OFF AT 
DRINKS 50' 

POOLSIDE OVER· 
EVERY NITE 

LOOKING THE 
S.B. SKYLINE 
REDISCOVER WITH CINDI 
THE YOUR 'BIKINI' HOSTESS SHERATON 
Sheraton Motor Inn 
SHERATON HOTELS & MOTOR INNS. WORLDWIDE 423 NORTH MICHIGAN STREET, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 219-232-2041 

Charles added, however, that as soon as plans for continuation of the search are finalized, they will be made available to the entire Notre Dame community.. 
Dr. Charles did her un­
dergraduate work at Manhattan 
College, Riverdale,N.Y., and 
received her M.A. and Ph.D. in 
English from Notre Dame. After a 
year of Postdoctoral study 
. at 'The Center 
for the Study of Higher Education 
at the University of Michigan, she 
served as executive vice president 
and academic dean of Ohio 
Dominican College in Columbus, 
where whe had previously taught 
Kulpa is an assistant protessor m the Department of Microbiology and Lobund Laboratory. Before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1972, he was a staff fellow with the Institute of Arthritis, Metabolic, and Digestive Diseases at the National Institutes of Health. 

THE HOUSE OF TURQUOISE 
314 South Main 259m51 Mishawaka Open 10 am. to 6:30 p.m. except Wed. I 5la 
•NAVAJO & ZUNI JEWELRY • CUSTOM SILVERWORK 
Open 11:30 a.m.-12:30 •·•· Carry 01111 258-8707 
NOW SERVING BEER ON SUNDAY 

1 STILL HUNTING FOR AN I 
IAPARTMENT FOR NEXT YEAR?I 
I  I  
II  CAMPUS VIEW ONE AND TWO BEDROOM FURNISHED APARTMENTS  I I  
I  LOOK WHAT WE  I  
II  HAVE TO OFFER:  II  
I  ~  I  
I II1 1 I  * 2 T~~~~!~.s~~~!.~* INDOOR SWIMMING POOL* COMMUNITY BUILDING (complete with pool tables and pinball machine)* DEAD-BOLT LOCKS* EXCELLENT SECURITY  I III 1 I  

I * BASKETBALL COURT 
I * 2 BATHS IN THE 2 -BEDROOM
I APTS. I * SOUND CONDITIONED I * REGULAR SOCIAL ACTIVITIES
INOW RENTING FOR SUMMER AND FALL SEMESTER I 1 ('7 5 -'7 6 SCHOOL YEAR) 1
I 

FOR RENTAL INFORMATION CALL 272-1441 I 
I CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS I 
L-------------------------~ 
* 
SHAG CARPETING I

* 
DISHWASHERS I 


...._ I """ PRIVACY I * LAUNDRY FACILITIES I 


10 the observer Thursday, July 3, 1975 
I 
Lawrence and Lee's 
INHERIT 
THE WIND
~ND 
SMG 
~~:::;.:a~~~o~~day 
July 4, 5, at 8:00 P.M. n. tz $2.75 
THEATRE L!~!~rr~~~:,:;e 
Phone: 284-4176 
AIR CONDITIONED. 
RACING EVERY TUESDAY NIGHT 
SOUTH BEND MOTOR SPEEDWAY Time trial at 7:00 p.m. Race at 8:30 p.m. 
Track located 3 miles west of So. Bend on Western Ave. 


f''-NOWAPPEARiN:G'i'1 
1N IAN I ! 
I D I1 QUAIL I u ~ 
I ifi..u,........._ ..... 
ITHE WHITE HOUSE
I ­WITH DAILy SPECIALS 
I IMON. & WED. "DRINK & DROWN"
I ITUESDAY "TEQUILA NIGHT" 
~ THURSDAY rTPITCHER BEER N /GHT" ~
I SUNDAY "LADIES NIGHT" ~ 
l-..~~~.....J 
~ .....................•....•....•.......... ~ ....••.•.... j········:
.
.
. .
. 
.•
.
.
. 
.
. . 0 .
.. I .. M . u ­
.
.
. 
.
. . s 
. 
.. I Daily Dinner Specials LA
.
.
.. c
. only $1.49 L
.
. 
'-....../ s/

.
.. D A '( 
• 


24 H
~'~ 
0(/ 
~ 
;(.' J & J GRILL cJ' 
\ 
p 
327 N. MICHIGAN 
I 
N
11am-11pm B 
.
. 
: : : • •
:I 
• 
, : : 
• 

3 Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. 3 -Moon rock, a replica of the 
moon flag, and a tape of the Ian­~ ding from NASA. ~ -President Ford's Inaugural ~ Speech. ~ -Hank Aaron's baseball bat and 

sources help pay for the American 

~ ball used when he tied Babe Ruth's Bicentennial of 1976 as a rebirth as
Freedom Train's operational

• pomerun record. wen as a birthday --a rediscovery
. expenses . 
of our strength and our poten­Origins of the Train Organization of the Train tial. ..This American Freedom _Train will be a fitting symbol for The idea for a Bicentennial A blue-ribbon committee of what the Bicentennial really 
powered 25-car train displays 
some of the nations most treasured 
documents and artifacts. It is 
currently on a 21-month tour 
through the country, highlighting 
the Bicentennial celebration in 
many communities. 
South Bend will be one <of onlywo 
cities in Indiana to have the Train 
included in its stopover schedule. 
The Train will be parked just 
west of the intersection of U.S. 31 
and Angela Boulevard, just west of 
the Notre Dame campus. It will be 
open to visitors on the three dates 
from 8:00AM to 10:00PM. Tickets 
are currently on sale throughout 
South Bend, and will go on sale at 
the site of the Train display when it 
arrives. 

Tickets are $1 each for people of 
18 years of age or younger, and 65 
years of age and older. Tickets are 
$2 for everyone else. 
Inside the Train 
Visitors to the American 
Freedom Train will travel through 
the exhibit cars on a moving walk­
way at a rate of 18,000 people per 
hour each fourteen-hour day. They 
carry individual transistorized 
sound units which play a running 
narration coordinated with the 
exhibits. The cars each have a 
special theme, ranging from an 
exhibit on the struggle for in­
dependence to a dramatic por­
trayal of five events in American 
history which have tested the fiber 
of the American system. 
There will be special cars 
exhibiting the pioneer spirit in 
America, the growth of the nation, 
the ethnic origins of contemporary 
Americans, a review of inventions 
and innovations in America, an 
examination of the many 
professions in America, and a 
panorama of the sporting 
American as hero. 
There will also be cars em­phasising the performing arts, the fine arts, and two special showcase cars. One showcase car will feature the American Freedom Bell, which is twice the size of the Liberty Bell and was built through the support of the American Legion on behalf of the Nation's children. The second showcase car deals with transportation in America and contains a series of wheeled vehicles lending additional testimony to American progress. 
Among the documents and ar­tifacts in the various cars are: -a 1776edition of Thomas Paine's Common Sense. 
-an 1886 Edison phonograph. -a partial manuscript of Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass' 
-original United States patent models ranging from the reaper to the washing machine. 
-the Reisman Trophy -the Oscar statuette and the Emmy Award 
-President Roosevelt's speech to Congress after the attack on Pearl Harbor 
-the vestement robe and Bible of 


Stan Makita relates to, 
instructs 
by Bob Kissell 
Stan Mikita? Isn't he the center from the Chicago Blackhawks with more moves than a bowl of Jello?...the second most prolific scorer in Hawk history? ... the originator of the curved stick?...the master of the shifty centering pass? ... Yes, but that's not the only.• story that 'Slosh' Mikita likes to talk about. 
For a week, June 16-21, Stanley Mikila ran the second American Hearing Impaired Hockey Association <AHIHA> camp at Handhurst Ice Arena in a Chicago suburb. 
While Mikita has normal hearing, he can well understand the problems of these kids. "Because I came from a foreign country <a Czech immigrant to Canada at age eight>, I thought everybody was after me," ex­plained Mikita. "Kids used to call me names I didn't understand and I'm sure these guys get called names because they are different. 
"Kids can be cruel, but have to learn to live with it. I tried to be better than the kids calling me names. That's what drove me to what I've accomplished." 
Add to the list of people con­cerned for the hearing impaired kids sausage maker Irv Tiahnybik. 
lrv is not just a philanthropic meat man, for he has a vested interest in the program ... his son Lex has a heariniZ impairment. 
Finally the third motivating source behind AHIHA is research audiologist Dr. David Sparks, llnivers:•y of Washington at S!.'attle. Sparks' work in the program is not purely academic, six years ago as a collegiate hockey ace at University of Massachusetts, he suffered head 
injuries resulting from an auto crash. 
Add Mikita's hockey savvy and !.'arly childhood language problems, Tiahnybik 's fatherly interest, Sparks' personal ex­perience and academic knowledge, and the result is the idea, now reality, of a hockey clinic to teach partially and totally hearing impaired kids the ins and outs of hockey. 
The current program had 56 enrollees from some 14 states. Though most of the kids were from the Chicago area, 14 kids are from the New England region, as well as a player each from Colorado and Ohio. 
TONIGHT 
MOONLITE MADNESS & FIREWORKS -JOIN U-
FoR A suPER I FIRE: WORKS DISLLA ~ AT 9 :30 TONIGHT AND SCOOP UP 
TREMENDOUS BUYS AT THE MOONLITE MADNESS SALE EVENT IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING AT: 
SCOTTSDALE 
MALL .MIAMI & IRELAND _ SO. I!_END____j 
impaired 
"It's the first time in their life these kids have had an opportunity to participate in a major sport, so to speak, and certainly in a team," said Mikita. "Most of the time they are shunned by Little League teams, not through any fault of the league, but because they happen to have a handicap, the organizers of that league are a little afraid of taking a chance. 
"One of our aims in the program is to teach the guys well enough so that they can go out on their own and learn these skills by them­selves or through organized leagues," continued the veteran of many hockey leagues himself. "Maybe someday, you never know, one of them will turn pro." 
Mikita has almost a gallery of NHL stars helping out everyday, beginning early in the morning. Present and former Hawks have been assisting Mikita with the various aspects of the game of hockey. 
Players like Phil Russell, Tony Esposito, Grant Mulvoy, Darcy Rota, Pat Stapelton, Eric Nesterenko, Moose Vasko, Gene llbriaco, J.P. Bordeleau, Cliff Koroll, and the list goes on, each of the players enthusiastically volunteering their time and knowledge. And besides how many kids can brag they had Chico Maki as an instructor? 
The hearing impaired kids are not the only ones who have lear­ned . As the hockey pros have had to teach handicapped kids, some of 

youth 
whom are totally deaf and have little communicative skills, like lip-reading or sign language. Communication between teachers and pupils is a rather unique combination of gestures, stick­waving, sign work, pantomine, and physical encouragement. 
But the point of the program is not the hockey skills, for they are secondary. It's the-self-realization by these kids that their handicap isn't really a handicap. 
"We have no problems at this camp," insisted Mikita. "The kids are responding real well and the instructors have been amazing. It's not really as hard to reach these kids as you might think." 
Mikita sees a very good future for the program here in Chicago and hopefully across the nation. "Our aim in the future is to hold these camps across the country, so that the traveling expenses of the kids won't be so high," commented Mikita. "As a matter of fact there's a man here today from St. Louis, who's kind of interested in starting a program there," 
Mikita says the work gives him a certain feeling of satisfaction. He also sees the hockey clinic as a way to repay his debt to all the people who helped him out when he was a young Czech in the foreign shores of Canada. 


Maybe veteran Hawk Gene . .----------------------­
llbraico summed the whole at­titude around the AHIHA camp. "These kids can't hear, but they listen well." 
SPECIAL 2 for 1 TO ALL STUDENTS NO CHARGE FOR YOUR DATE, GUYS! ! AT 
THE TIN TREE . 
EXIT 48 NEW BUFFALO, MI. AT THE RED,WHITE AND BLUE TENT THIS WEEK 
"LITTLE fv\ARY SUNSHINE" 
starring DICK POWELL, JR. 
tURTAIN TIME 8:45 p.m.(MICHIGAN 2 SHOWS SAT. AT 7:00 & 10:30 TIME) SUNDAY at 7:30p.m. 
~ALL ~6.16) 4694613 FOR RESERVATIONS OR WRITE: TIN TREE, BOX 129, N.BUFFOLO 
STARTING JULY 8th MERCEDES · 
McCAMBRIDGE IN "MINNIE'S BOYS" 
BOX OFFICE OPENS ~ 2:00·1 0:00 p.m. 
•, •.•..... oli •• 
THROWING A PARTY?? 
HELPING YOU IS OUR BUSINESS 
5 OF THE HA~NDIEST SPOTS IN TOWN 
1. HANDY SPOT PARTY SHOPPE 3. ROSELAND PARTY SHOPPE 
1426 Mi1hawaka Ave. 113 DiKieWay N. 
2.. N. IRONWOOD PARTY SHOPPE 4. GOLDEN FLASK PARTY SHOPPE 
172.5 N. Ironwood 413 Hickory Rd. at M<Kin1ey 
5. PARTY SHOPPE SOUTH 
• WINES • GOURMET FOODS 4401 s. Michigan at Ireland 
• 
LIQUORS • PARTY SUPPLIES 

• 
COLD BEER 


"II it's available, we will get it for you." 
FREE DELIVERY 287-7744 .

OF SOUTH BEND 
THIS WEEKEND 
AT 
NICKlE'S 
LIVE MUSIC! ! 
Every WED., FRI., & SAT. From 10:00 p.m. to 2:00a.m. Every Weekend This Month 
-NO COVER­-NO INCREASE IN PRICE­FREE PARKING -A&P LOT 
928 EDDY,
Ne SeBe 
(Just a few Blocks South of NO) 
., 
DDDCICICICICICICICIDCICI()CICICHI a a IIDDDI.I IIIDDDDDDDIDD aDDIII OC 
IDCIDDaCIIIDCICIDDD~?OCIDDIIDDDaiiiiiDIDDCIDCIDCICI~DDDDDLGC 
~---------------------------------~ 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
HANDYMAN. reduced summer rent for single room near campus 234-6519 
ONE SMALL (GE·Pi:t""""'t•'·: t·1 p• stereo. Preferably us' u, p efer/l.:>ly cheap. Call 283-1715 
Reduced summer rent for single room near camp)Js. 234-6519 
MARRIED COUPLE needed for live.Jn houseparents for foster home. Salary. Wrlte:P.E.P. Inc. 3012 S. Twyckenham, So. Beno, Ind. .c6614 
Obse' .,er 
Classified Ads Get Results 
NOTICES 
2 ROOMS S<IO Mo. Girls. Air cond. 7576 
·---­HOUSES AVAILABLE. Summer or fall. near campus. Good condition 
234 6519 
196t-CH:·Vr-LLE. Great engine, good transportation. $100. Call Dennis, 1094. 
SHORIN-RYU Karate cham. plonshlp. Featuring Sensei YlmiiShlte ,m· July 27 at Marian High School tickets 2.50 adult, $1.50 children und~ 12. Call Bob 286· 2269 
INTERESTED IN no.frlll low cost jet travel to Europe, /!. •rica, Middle East, Far East at minimum cost, maximum flexibility and minimum hassle? For Information call Educational Flights toll-free (800 
223-5569 

-
-
.. 
"Love" not found only at Tennis Camp • Sean and Rudy prove it
'


by Andy Praschak Associate Editor 

It is a well known and widely accepted fact that some of the finest athletes in the United States find their way to Notre Dame ..... but at the age of eight'/ According to Sean Coleman, head counselor for the Notre Dame Hockey Camp, this fact is un­disputable. 
One hundred twenty young men, ages eight to sixteen, are presently attending the camp which is now in its second two week session. The camp, which is run out of the Athletic and Convocation Center, costs each camper's family around $285 for the two week session.
-Coleman is aided by Dan "Rudy" Ruettiger, house father for the camp, as well as eight other counselors, most of whom are Notre Dame students. The Observer was lucky enough to snag Coleman and Rudy for an interview, at dinner time in the South Dining Hall. Coleman ex­plained that his day, which lasts from 6:3oa.m. to 10 p.m., hardly leaves him a spare minute to himself. But the smile on his face when he talks about "his kids" tells you that he's loving every minute of it. Bouncing Jello 
The interview was briefly in­terrupted when Coleman was called to a nearby table filled with bickering campers. 
"Sean, Tommy's throwing his jello up in the air," one camper said. 
"I was not," Tommy said. "I was only bouncing it on the table." 
"Well,just make sure it bounces back into your mouth," Coleman said and settled the dispute. 
-
Back to more serious business .... Coleman explained that the camp is concentrated, with its main goal being to turn out better hockey players. "The kids come here to get quality instruction and 
most of the room for campers is reserved only ten days after the applications are sent out." he noted. 
Coleman pointed out that not all training is done on the ice. "We also put them through a program of physical conditioning, films and weight training," he said. Coleman laughingly said that this marks his thirtieth year at the camp, while actually it is his third. 
Most of the boys at the camp come from the Chicago area but there have also been campers from Florida, Texas, Pennsylvania and New York, Coleman explained. All campers are housed in pangborn Hall. 
A Short Counselor 
Coleman, who stands a mere five feet five inches, was mistaken for a camper the first year he was a counselor. "I saw this little guy wandering around and told rum to get back to his room," Rudy remembers. He explained that Coleman told him he was a counselor and he laughed andsaid, "Try again, kid." 
Coleman, himself, has a few humorous stories that he likes to tell. "Of the printable stories, the one about the homesick kid is one of the funniest," he said. He ex­plained that he was soundly sleeping one morning around 6 :30, when he heard a tiny knock at the door. "I opened it up and all I saw was a flash; a four foot kid that jumped onto the top bunk of my bed. He looked at me with sad eyes and softly said, 'I'm homesick. •r Being the child psychologist that he is, Coleman told him to lay down in his bed and go to sleep. He soon followed and was awaken two hours later by a kid slobering in his ear. 
Rudy was not left without his favorite story either. His tale involved a camper who acquired the nickname, "Crapper" and the unusual way in which Rudy realized why he had received this name. "He was a likeable kid who always seemed happy and boun­cy," he recalls. 
entire sports camp program that is 

Rudy soon befriended the 
held annually at Notre Dame.

camper and went out for a walk 
Other camps include an All-8ports

with him one day. As they were 
camp, which includes tennis, golf, 

walking across campus, Rudy 
basketball, baseball and football;

became extra-playful, picking the 
a Basketball camp and a Football

camper up and placing him on his 
shoulders. As they bounced along, the child's proximity caused Rudy to begin to realize why he was called "Crapper". Rudy did some undercover investigation and sure enough .... 
I

Kids Get Even 
The kids at the hockey camp also have some unusual comments on 
I and stories about their head counselor and house father. Bob 
I 

Porcellino, 15, form Oak Lawn, Illinois, told how Rudy put on a big ugly mask and scared his roomate who was then in the shower. "My ' roomate came running straight from the shower with his head all lathered up," he said. 
Scott Burki, 15, from Glen View, Ill., told how Rudy tried to act tough the first day but now is ac­ting "pretty cool." "I saw him and Sean posing for some girls out on the quad today," he whispered. 
Eleven year old, Johnny Binz thought that Coleman was a "pretty good guy." "He always sings and dances around real crazy. I'll be back here next year," he said. Jorge Jaffke and Steve Artisuk, both 11, like Rudy because he picks them up and throws them around whenever they do something good. "He always says good job, my man," they said. Jaffke also noted that Rudy's a great "lift-weighter." 
Camp Scandal 
Jay Rankin, Kelly Lee, Ken Veilanes and Mide Thompson, each eleven years old, provided support enough for each other to snitch on their superiors a little. "Sometimes they go outside and talk to girls under our window while we're trying to sleep," they said. "Boy are we going to get it if they find out we told on them," one of the boys lamented. 
The hockey camp is a part of the 
Candy Frankovelgla Producnon Manager 
2923 MISH. AVE. PARK THEATRE

News: 283-1715 
Sue Zwick Production "anager 



Business: 283··7-471 
Chris Smith Photo Editor 

Editorials: 283-8661 
Thursday, June 26, 1975 
PLAYLAND GOLF CENTER

............................................ ·~ 
*~d.QI2,~rver
Founded November 3, 1966 
Fred Graver Editor-in-Chief ~ndy Praschak Associate Editor Ed Pawlowski Advertising Manager Judy Smith IUSB Editor Bob Tracy Ad Lavout 


SBDLJrS 
•ITBCLDB 
On U.S. 31 between Niles and South Bend-Free Parking-Ph. 683-4350 
CONTINUOUS ENTERTAINMENT FROM .9 P.M. TILL 2 A.M. 

BARLO PLAYHOUSE 
1 

"FANTASTIKS" 
July & August 
AT TINKERS DAM 
MICHIGAN CITY I INDIANA 
RESERV. (219) 879-7373 
·camp. 
Love the boys as they may, both Coleman and Rudy finally ad­mitted their favorite part of the camp. "It's when the mothers and sisters come here," they laughed. 

Dance this weekend to 
PATCHWORK 
Michiana's top Rock Night Club! 
l4eaiiiiY'S 
122 WEST FIRST STREfT • MISHAWAKA 
-
I
I
I
I
' 
..............~~~··············· 
YOUR BACK PACKING 
,~_ NEEDS
.L 
233-8383 SIERRA SPORTS 2216 MIAMI 
SOUTH BEND, IN ············································ 
$1 OFF 
ALL ELTON 
JOHN'S 
ALBUMS 
THIS WEEK ONLY 
288-1178 
A FULL SERVICE RECORD STORE 
NEXT TO RIVER 

Open dawn till 10:00 pm
... 
9 HOLE •"PAR 3 GOLF .COURSE 
Driving Ionge . r8 Hale Mlniolurw 
i •* 
LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWOOD
* 
i ~ ** 
1·: 





