

unrverslfy of notre dome st mary's college
Thursday, July 17, 1975 
Vol. 10 No. 6 


The American Freedom Train has come and gone, and we've all gotten a chance to assess, if not the nation's past, then at least one way of celebrating it. 
Riding on a conveyor belt that took them through the train in about twenty minutes, viewers were given a chance to see, among other items, Judy Garland's dress from the Wizard of Oz, the glory of Indian life, a collection of rifles and a reproduction of Frank Lloyd Wright's "mile-high building" (which was never build), displayed to the tune.of "America the Beautiful." 
One man commented on the train by saying "Everyone comes out thinking differently than when he went ln." Another said, "I'd want my kids to see it. At least they know a part of their heritage. Even If It was only the good part." Story on Page four. 
·.: .. 
The rumors of the haunting of Washington Hall by the ghost of George Gipp, former Notre Dame football wizard (played by Ronald Reagan in the classic "Knute Rockne: All-American") has reached the ears of people for and wide. 
Last Wednesday night, a group of 
religious-metaphysical-witchcraft 
wizards met In Washington Hall to 
search for the Gipper. 
On page twelve, Andy Praschak, 
(who bravely risked life and limb and 
spiritual devestatlon to get this story) 
answers such highly volatile questions 
as: "What will happen when we ex­
pand our aura?" 
"What should we do when we walk Into a room where, just two years ago, we saw a man with a bloody head moaning "You're not here to help me; you're only curious?" 

It is a disturbing observation to 
make, but Henry Kissinger seems to be one of the few world leaders to have held on to his iob in the last five years. 
Just whether that's for the better or worse Is hard to tell, with all of his secret dealings. 
Over the last year or so, his Im­pressive record has begun to wane, and the critics are beginning to zero In on Henry the K. Many believe that he will be the next casualty In the wave of post-Watergate usurpations. 
One such observer is Pat Oliphant, Washington Star , Washington Star political cartoonist. He has set his sights on Kissinger, see page ten. 

the observer 



215 Dixie wa.y N Roseland' So. &end I brave men have done." 
. 
.
.
.
.
.. 
24 H 
0(/ 
0 
J & J GRILL 
I 
M 327 N. MICHIGAN 
u 
11am-11pm
s 
AI Daily Dinner Specials 
L
c only $1.49 
"'-...~ /L 
D A '{ s 
. 
:..•......•..••..••••••••••.••.....•....•••.••••••.•.....•...•••. 

LITURGICAL SCHEDULE 
SACRED HEART MAIN CHURCH June 23 through August 3 
MONDAY THRU SATURDAY. 
8:00 a.m. 
11:15 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 5:00 p.m. 5:15p.m. 7:00 p.m. 7:15p.m. 
MORNING PRAISE IN 
THE LAD.Y CHAPEL CONFESSION MASS CONFESSION MASS 
CONFESSION EVENSONG IN THE LADY CHAPEL 
(EVENSONG ON FRIDAY WILL BE CELEBRATED IN THE QROTTO) 
SUNDAY. 
9:00a.m.  MORNING PRAISE IN  
THE LADY CHAPEL  
9:30 a.m.  MASS  
10:45 a.m.  MASS  
12:15 p.m.  MASS  

7:15 EVENSONG IN THE LADY CHAPEL 
p I 
N 
B 

Faced with the annyal chore of delivering a Memorial day address to the folks back home, Rep. Jum 
' Blanchard ( D-Mich.) decided to deliver the "Gettysburg Address," giving the full credit at the beginning to Abraham Lincoln. The latest issue of Rolling Stone 
magazine reports a reporter from 
the Royal Oak Daily Tribune in
Michigan failed to hear the preface, and attributed the speech to Blanchard. 
His story read, in part:"Blanchard said that American 
soldiers did not die in vain. it's
because of their sacrifices that this 
government will not perish,' .Blanchard said. 'The world will!little remember wllat we said here, 
but we cannot fol!get what these 
:, Lincoln's words came in for more posthum.on· abuse several weeks later when Blanchard's office recieved a letter from a constituent who had driven 25 
' miles to hear the Congressman and was "quite disappointed by the superficiality of the speech." 
Scientists have buguh to discover what attracts the mosquito to its prey. <Humans. ( 
According to a recent report, a mosquito's flight is random until it is stimulated by a rise in carbon dioxide (such as that exhaled by a human being. ( ( When its antennae detect a warm, moist air stream such as that around a person, perspiring or not, it follows the current to tis source, lands and bites. 
.. A plan to bring world public opinion to an appreciation of the Arab position was outlined by the Arab league at a five-day meeting of its committee on information. An official of the league said that "all mass media available" would be used for an information cam­paign in the United States, Europe, As:ia and elsewhere. 
Dr. John Kalrsoh, a California pediatrician specializing in genetics has reported that near­sighted kids are more intelligent than youn'gsters with normal vision. 
Dr. Karlson found that near­sighted students tended to score higher than nonmyopic ones on IQ tests, even on quizzes given 10 years earlier. He concluded that nearsightedness is genetically linked to intelligence. 
The world's first roller-coaster that actually truns its passengers upside-down has appeared at the Knott's Berry Farm in California. The roller coaster is called the Corkscrew and is equiped with cockpit-like seats which hold the riders in by cen­trifugal force. The passengers wear a shoulder-harness as the roller coaster plunges down the track and executed two complete barrel rolls. 
Ray Townsend, of Santa Bar­bara, California, has ridden more than 100,000 miles on Greyhound buses. Greyhound calls him America's long-distance bus­riding champion. 
Travelling alone since his wife died, the 73-year-old man last year, traveled a record 29,500 miles in 60 days, ri,ding on Greyhound Ameripass. He traveled an average of 500 miles a day, covering all the 48 contiguous states and Alaska. 
On his current trip, he expects to travel a record 34,000 miles in the same way. His secret of success: "I sleep on buses 47 out of 60 nights and eat a six-ounce chocolate bar daily for energy." 

Hoynes Hall to be renovated 
.···•••·•···•••·•••··•····•••······•·•···•····••••··········•····••.
.
. ... for Department of Music 
. 
One of the University of Notre Dame's oldest buildings, the 85-year-old Haynes Hall, will be 
renovated to accommodate the Department of Music, Rev. James 
~ 
U' 
T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., provost, has 
•' announced.
\ 
: Currently occupying 3,600 
square feet in O'Shaughnessy Hall, the music department will more than triple its space in its move into Haynes, tentatively scheduled for January 1976. Plans for using the 13,000 square feet in the new quarters include a sorely needed choral and instrumental rehersal room which also will serve as a large lecture hall and a recital hall for student concerts. The new facility also will include 13 teaching studios, 18 practice rooms, 2 smaller classrooms, a library for scores, a student lounge, an orchestral storage room and an administrative office area. "The decision to give the Department of Music a new home speaks to its part in a renaissance of the fine arts at the University," 
'

Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana, has received $48,118 to establish Project Choice: 
An Institute for the Elimination of Sex-Discrimination in Education. Awarded by the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, the grant will be used to work with ·· the South Bend Community School Father Burtchaell commented. 


Interest in music has ex­perienced a revival at Notre Dame in recent years, probably spurred by two developments. According to William Cerny, department chairman, introduction of a fine arts requirement in the College of Arts and Letters in 1969 caused enrollment in introductory music appreciation courses to increase, and the advent of coeducation in 1972 resulted in a larger band, orchestra and choral and in­strumental ensembles. The number of undergraduate and graduate music majors also has grown considerably since 1972. 
With nine full-time, four part­time and nine associate faculty members, the Department of Music offers both a concentrated program for music majors and courses in appreciation and ap­plied instruction for all interested students. Memberships in the four choral ensembles chamber groups, orchestra and band also are open to all students. 
Music instruction at Notre Dame can be traced almost to the founding of the school, with formal establishment in 1846 when the first Hall of Music was con­structed, approximately on the present site of Washington Hall, the department's second home. The two-story clapboard Music Hall, also known as Exhibition Hall, burned down in 1879. 
Hoynes Hall was built in 1890 and has been used by every college in the University except Business Administration. In 1919, it was named the Haynes College of Law in honor of William J. <Colonel) Haynes, "the energetic, flam­boyant professor and dean of the Law School for over 50 years." The department of mechanical engineering, chemistry and pharmacy, and architecture all have occupied the building, which also served as a recreation center for military students during World War I. The most recent occupant, the Department of Psychology, moved to Haggar Hall last falL 

St. Mary's receives grant to end sex-discrimination 
Corporation in reviewing practices 
and educational materials 
which could be considered discriminatory. 
Described as "a positive program," Project Choice has received the support of the school corporation which seeks "to 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during exams and vacation periods. The Observer is pubI ished by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's College. 
Subscriptions may be purchased for 8 dollars per semester (16 dollard per year) from The Ob­server, Box Q Notre Dame Indiana 465~6-Second Class po~tage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
review texts, courses, or other 
educational programs or activities offered separately on the basis 'of sex." The program will also 
assess guidance procedures, testing materials, teacher-s!udent 
interaction, and sex-bias in ex­tracurricular activities. 
Ms. Nora Hoover, of the Department of Education at Saint 
Mary's, describes the goals of Project Choic«: as "a 
concrete, ' 
operable program to 
sex-discrimination in all forms. 
The program will be put practice throughout the year and 
evaluated at the end of project." 


~--~ ----------~--~-------~--­
Thursday, July 17, 1975 
the observer 3
"'-'----­

Abortion: One man speaks out 
by Andy Praschak 
Associate Editor 
The Circle of Life, an unborn child, the human Life Amendment, saline abortions, hysterotomi~. Planned Parenthood and grotesque color photos of dismembered, aborted fetuses are all words and phrases somehow connected with the Right to Life movement. 
So too, Life Is For Everyone, (LIFE), the Notre Dame ~pter of the Right ~o Life movement is i~ongly connected Wlth the entire pro-life side of the abortion issue. "The purpose of the group is to foster a respect for all human life from the moment of conception to a natural death," according to Joe Corpora, one of the Directors of LIFE. 
Corpora is a junior at Notre Dame and 
majoring in Modern Languages. He ex­
plained that he first became involved with 
the pro-life movement when he came to the 
realization that abortion is murder. "I can't 
just sit and watch murder; I have to do 
something about it," he said. Corpora 
believes that in education lies one of the 
main answers to the question of the im­
mortality of abortion. "If people study the 
facts of fetal development there can be no 
doubt as to whether or not abortion is 
murder." he said. 
According to Corpora, LIFE is composed of approximately sixty members, ten of whom are very active in the organization "Anyone who has a pro-life philosophy is welcome in the group." he said. 
January 22, 1975, marked the second 
anniversary of the historic Supreme Court 
decision that legalized abortion in the 
United States. On this day LIFE put forth 
its best effort to express its dissatisfaction 
with the decision. The organization 
published a petition containing the names of 
over 2,500 members of the Notre Dame 
community also opposed to the decision. 
Corpora noted that other activities included 
flying campus flags at half-mast, noontime 
ringing of the bells of Sacred Heart Church 
and the offering of a ''Celebration of Life" mass by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, University President. 
"I do think this university should take an official stance on the issue and it's disheartening that they haven't," remarked Corpora. He explained that he, personally, was pleased with Hesburgh's sermon, calling for a respect for life in all stages. "But naturally some pro-life advocates weren't completely satisfied with it," he said. 
Many at the mass, attended by over 1500, were expecting Hesburgh to make a statement on the Human Life Amendment 
now in the Senate committee stage. "The question has arisen why he chose not to speak on that issue," commented Corpora. 
In answer to the rumors which spread, 
stating that LIFE was attempting to 

pressure Hesburgh into making a firm· Academic Counc1l, he sa1~. 
commitment on the amendment Corpora responded that they were "nonsen'se." "We weren't pressuring him at all· we knew how he felt all along" he guara~teed
' · 
United States Senator, Birch Bayh <D-Ind.) is chairman of the Senate. sub­committee presently studying the amend­ment. Corpora explained that he is ex-



MOTORCYCLE OWNERS 
CH£CI THESE RATES! 
S76 'Per V•or
12&-200cc full Coverag• p., Year · 
1201-360cc '95 full Cov~roge , Per Year
361-500cc 111 full Cover6ge 'l p,;; Full
501-750cc 45 Year Coverag• IJ85 Per Full
751-lOOOcc Y"or Coverage 
Pv: FuN0Ylr 1000cc ., I.28 Year (ov.,roge • 
'Above rote\ Ot'O bo•ed on new brke•, 
leuer I rot<" for bike• over 18 mo. old. 
... .
~"'­
Complete protection by 


PETE CLARK 
INSURANCE AGENCY I ,I 1104 lishawab Awe. 'U~' r~ !lkl Ph. 289-7213 
unborn child is a human being, there's no • 
, way to deny it the right ot life," he said. 
· Corpora raised many objections to the 
Planned Parenthood Organization and its 
philosophies and practices. "I don't think 
they would ever a-ttempt to talk a pregnant woman out of having an abortion," he said. He also noted that they advertise their 1 services as optional counseling. "However, 
the only option they offer is whether to have ' the abortion today or tomorrow," he I quipped. 
~ 

tremely pleased that Bayh has stated that ' he believes abortion is the taking of a human life but displeased that the bill is not im­mediately moving out of the subcommittee. 
Bayh commented that the bulk of the hearings, already tesitfied at by sixty-four witnesses, has concentrated on the medical sideof the issut'. "Much of the testimony has been focused on the medical implications of legalization or prohibition of abortion," he said. The Senator noted that they have I heard, so far, from twenty-three medical ' specialists who have attempted to clarify when life begins. 
According to Bayh, the hearings will continue with the analysis of the legal im­plications of the difference between a "states rights" approach and a "Right to 
Jean Stephenson, Director of Social Services for the South Bend chapter of Planned 1Parenthood· remarked that they are there neither to encourage or discourage the use of abortion to solve the problem of an unwanted pregnancey. "It's 
the woman's decision and we're here to answer all questions she may have." she 
said. 
Stephenson pointed out that no decision is referred to as "best" but rather the least bad.. "Abortion represents a failure on the part of either the woman, Planned Parenthood or society as a whole,"· she said. She underlined the fact that abortion is not a form of birth control. "It would surely be better to plan a family than get caught in the dilemma of an unwanted 
pregnancy," she said. 
Corpora pointed out the fact that Planned Parenthood definitely stated that abortion was murder ten years ago, but have since 
reversed their decision. 
"I think it's irrelevant to consider what is past," noted Bunny Schultz, Educational Director of the South Bend Planned Parenthood. When the policy was 

Life amendment" together with the im-1established at the time, legality was the big plications that eliminating. legalized issue, according to Schultz. "Considering abortion would have on the constitutional the unsterile, unprofessional circumstances rights. "Also, we are conce~ned~with the under which illegal abortions were con-effects of the chain of either 'lertiliZation' or .due ted at the time, I would agree that many 'implantation' as the legardefinilioJ1i.of the times it was murder," she explained. beginning of life on the use: of substances or "There always was and will be abortions 
devices now widely beli~v~l tOt ije con-·performed, legal or illegal. The problem is 
traceptives," he said. \ •. · 
"I am and always have: been> petsonally 
opposed to unrestricted' abortioh\," said 
Bayh. He feels that the question before the 
subcommittee does not involy_ehis personal views but rather whether Congress should 1 propose the rarely used device of a con­stitutional amendment to deal with the 
!issue. "As chairman of the subcommittee, it is my responsibility to fully and 
whether we will allow them to be performed illegally, as I have mentioned or legally under the conditions of a professional staff in a professional clinic," she said. . 

Passage of the Human Life Amendment, mentioned by Corpora, is one of the main goals of LIFE. According to Charles E. Rice, Professor of Law at the Notre Dame Law School, ''The Human Life Amendment would protect the right to live from the beginning." The amendment reads as follows: 
1. 
With respect to the Right to Life guaranteed in this Constitution, every human being, subject to jurisdiction of the United States or any other State shall be deemed from the moment of fertilization to be a person and entitled to the right to life. 

2. 
Congress and the several States shall have the power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation. 


Rice feels that passage of this amendment would definitley prevent all abortions for reasons less than life of the mother.'~, "I personally believe that abortion is morally wrong in every case and that it should not be legalized even where it is claimed to be 
necessary to save the life of the mother," said Rice. 
According to Rice, the Human Life Amendment would stop the growing drive toward euthanasia of the retarded, the aged and the sick. "In light of the Supreme Court's rulings, this is no longer a mere academic question. Anyone who thinks those rulings are merely about abortion is mistaken," he said. Rice stated that if the Court can define some human beings as nonpersons because they aretoo young, that is, they have not lived nine months from their conception, it can also do it to others because they are too old. "Or black ... Or retarded... Or whatever," he stated. . i 
Pro-Life or Pro-Abortion, all seem 
to agree that the literature,:.. used by the 
Right to Life campaign is disgusting. Name a type of abortion and the Right to Life campaign will have all sized color photos of the aborted \ fetus. 
Corpora commented that he brings his literature with him everywhere he goes. The literature, admittedly contained well­organized, logically thought out positions against abortion. HoweverI it was also filled 
-I 
"If people study the facts of f~ta/ development h b d b h d
t ere can e no ou t t at abortion is mur er." 
lliocoo~y~m~~~~~~~~m·i~C~o·r·po·r·a~~~s·o·r·a~~-e~d~t~h·e·p·o~i-n~t~th~a~t·s·u·c~h-w~it~h·r·e·v·o~lt~in·g-p~k~~-r·e·s·o~f~th~e-p·ro·d~u·c~t·o~f 
before making recommendations to the Judicial Committee and to the Senate as a whole," Bayh said. 
Pro-Life Course at ND Although the plans are still sketchy, 
Corpora commented that a course may soon be available dealing with the entire pro-life 1question.. "Hopefully, our plans for the course v.:•ll be ap~r?,ved by. the Notre Dame 
As of now, exactly what Will be taught and who w~ll do the teaching is..still uncertain, accordmg to Corpora. We do hope, however, to have it team taught by experts 
from the medical field, law field and Theology Department," he commented. 
Corpora noted thatif approved, the course will be billed as a regular three credit course. "Once educated to the fact that the contraceptives as Intrauterine Devices (IUD), prescribed by Planned Parenthood, are really forms of abortion. "They allow the egg and the sperm to unite but prevent further growth, stopping a potential human being," he said. 
Schultz guaranteed that no medical ex­pert has been able to explain exactly why the IUD works. "It may be that the female egg was never fertilized or it may be that the fertilized egg passes right through the uterus," she explained. Stephenson noted that an early form of IUD was a stone placed in the uterus of a camel while crossing the dessert. According to her, just as no one knew why it worked then, no one knows why now. "In any case , if the woman feels that it is a form of abortion, she is free to refuse to use it," she said. 

suction abortions, saline abortions, D&C abortions and hysterotomies. As one writer commented in an article in New Times magazine, "The gruesome pictures cause the onlooker to recoil --not from the 'truth' but from being hit with a cheap shot." 
"I close my eyes when I show those slides to people," admitted Corpora. He added, however, that he finds them no worse than the pictures of starving children in Africa or Biafra that have recently been plastered in the dining halls and the Campus Ministry. "The pictures are real, nobody made them up," he said. 
Corpora reflected, "We can only do so much in Congress and educating and hoping. But most especially through prayer and the grace of God can the right of life for children be restored." 


I 
MAC'S RECORD RACK 

r·-cHECKO'tfl'''''"" 
THIS WEEK... 

All Country_ 
HOPS N' SPIRITS 
THIS WEEKS SPECIAL
$1 Off 

All 45's 99¢ 
~~6 PACK Of COKE IN CANS 
FOUR POPULAR BEERS 

1 
1 
1
WE SELL KEG::, AI THE CHEAPEST 
288-1178 PRICE' IN TOWN 
1 
I 

A FULL ~ERVICE ftECORD 
812 E. LASALLE AVE. "' 
NEXT TO RIVER 

287-2581'
2923 MISH. AVE. PARK THEATR.E 
~· 


the bserver 
------~----­
-~­




Freedom Tra•n rolls in 



by Sue Zwick Production Manager 
The American Freedom Train was here. 
The train, a "mechanical wonder," is a traveling historical monument filled with priceless documents, artifacts and assorted memorbilia commemorating America's existance for the last two hundred years. 
The train is not the first of its kind. In 1947, the American Heritage Foundation sponsored the "Spirit of 1776", a seven car red, white, and blue history-on-wheels which traveled the continent. 
The 1975-76 version is the brainchild of Ross E. 
Rowland, a commodities broker and founder of 
the High Iron Company, Inc. He presented the 
profect to Don Kendall of Pepsi Cola Co. who 
agreed to sponsor it, along with General Motors 
Corp., Draft Foods and Prudential Insurance 
Company. Each corporation, and a fifth which 
requested anonymity, donated $1 million apeice 
for the project. The train was completed at a 
cost of $15.5 million, the difference which will be 
alleviated by the $1 and $2 admission charge. 
The train was built to accomodate 1,800 people per hour, each 14 hr. day it is opened. Visitors travel on a conveyor belt through the exhibits, carrying transistorized sound units which pick up the narration for each display. The sound­tracks include pieces of speeches, poetry and music rerelating to the various subjects on exhibit. The entire tour through the ten cars takes 18-27 minutes. 
The cars are arranged in subject order, 
dealing first with America's conquest of 
unknown territories and moving through the 
mastery of industry and social organization. The 
latter cars dei'ict other aspects of American 
culture achieved through the arts and sports 
competition. The changes of temperature in 
each car is necissitated by the valuable 
documents which must be protected by severe 
environmental controls. 
The exhibits in Car 1 include a portion of the 
Star Spangled Banner, the first draft of the 
Articles of Confederation, Revolutionary War 
rifles and muskets, and George Washington's 
copy of the Constitution/. 
The belt moves away from the mirrored 
images of the Bill of Rights, into the darkness of 
Car 2, where the glory of Indian life is exhibited. 
A video tape of an Indian man is flashed upon the 
background, and his words, "The Great White 
Father in Washington says, Saulk, Fox, 
Potowatime, Cheyene. Begin new life, life on 
reservation," are almost lost in the crowded car. 
The complacent look on the Indian's face is 
contrasted by the brightness of Car 3, entitled 
"Conflict and Compromise." · The exhibit 
glorifies the destiny of the westward movement, ' 
with models of Conestoga wagons and pioneer 
diaries. Somehow the Indian's words lose their 
meaning among the pictures of panned gold and 
log cabins. 
Car 4 exhibits the last frontiers, sea and space. ; · 
Among the exhibits are Alim Shepard's space suit, a replica of the lunar mooual and video . , films of Neil Armstrong's lunar· trek. Several 

and out of South Bend 

models of underwater cities and films of the creatures of the deep are included also. Car 5 entitled, "Growth of a Nation," begins with the industrialization of American society. Exhibits show the progress of inventions, con­trasting old diesle engines with models of 747 jets. A reproduction of Frank Lloyd Wrights "Mile High Building" is viewed to the tune of "America the Beautiful." 
The sixth car is an attempt to show the progress of American minorities. Behind a model of a slave ship, two black manequins, a mother and child, are viewed in a typical 1970 American home. The faces of two people are videoed on the dolls, giving a lifelike ap­pearance. The recording addresses the audience, saying, "It's getting better. Many have suffered, many have died so that my child may truely be an American." Among the other minorities represented are Indians, Chinese and Spanish speaking cultures, including carved religious figures figures from Puerto-Rico, and a Mexican-American newspaper. A voice narrates, "Our culture rich and ancient, we share freely with our countrymen." 
The accented English of the Spanish Americans fade into the whirl and hum of Car 7. Among the displays of hands, working men and the glorified struggles of organized labor, Walt Whitman's impressions, "I Heard America Singing," narrates the exhibits of Edison lightbulbs and Nobel Peace Prizes. 
Car 8 is dedicated to American achievements in sports. Among the items displayed are both Chris Everetts and Billie Jean King's tennis rackets, Roberto Clemente's bat, the Heisman trophy and Johnny Wiessmuller's Olympic Medals. On screens in between the mirrors are tapes of the Army -Navy game, Muhammed Ali f!ghts aild Henry Aaron's 714 llome run. 
Car 9, dedicated to tbe performing artS, exhibit some . of the all-time great movie people, producers and writers. Among the star-studded cast appear George M. Cohan, Jack Benny and his throw-away violin, Judy Garland's dress from the "Wizard of Oz", Walt Disney cartoons and a Chalie Chaplan movie. The Supreme's first gold record stands between the Bing Crosby version of "White Christmas" and the. Charlie Brown interpretation of the holiday. 
The "Fine Arts" of America fill the next to last car, with original painting from colonial through contemporary artists. Words spoken by these Americans are mounted among their works, such as Andrew Wyeth's, "I want to show A~ericans what America is like." 
The feeling that American history goes deeper than politics is shattered upon entering the last car. Entitled, "Conflict-Resolution," the car is dedicated to five "great" American figures, Lincoln, Roosevelt, John Kennedy, Martin Luther King, and Gerald Ford. Before the background of bigger-than-life portraits of each man are Civil War mementos, original drafts of speeches by Kennedy and Roosevelt, newspaper clippings and King's bible. 
The red, white and blue cars and carnival atmosphere dominated the scene behind St. Joseph's High School. But the mood of the people disembarking from the train was unusually serious. "The trip is an experience, like living history," one viewer said. 
Riding through the darkened cars of relics leaves some of the viewers confused. "I don't know whether to be proud or angry," one man said. "I can't tell whether it was over-simplified or propaganda," his wife remarked. 
The feeling of emptiness followed some viewers. "Surely there's more to America than this." one girl remarked. The train and its exhibits only scratch the surface of the im­portant events, and ignore many of the vital conflicts in . America, like foreign affairs, Vietnam and pollution. "I think they were too selective. There's nothing here that deals with America today ... Our history started out as a struggle, why look passive now?" stated Edward Hartz, of Niles, Michigan. 
Still, the history collected in those ten cars give some viewers a sense of belonging. "It's like I wanted to search for my roots," an elderly man stated. "It's like I needed to find my history, and even if that train ain't it, it kind of proves that it's still around." "I think I understand how we all fit together," said Cindy Baumar, age eight, of South Bend. 
The major complaints about the Freedom Train dealt with the conveyor system. "I'm sure there wer-e some very worthwhile articles on the train, but the damned conveyor belt is a real pain," stated one viewer . He felt that people were denied the opportunity of viewing their own interests, and that the speed of the system was a 
nuisnace to those who really wished to look at the exhibits. "I don't know whether it was for ef­ficiency, or to herd everyone through and make enough and make enough profit on it, but the system was so fast, you couldn't hear the voices as you zipped by," he added. 
An army corporal traveling with the train, offered another perspective. "The train is supposed to be entertainment. If it wasn't, people would lose interest." He agreed that the Bicentennial offers time for reflection, and "Maybe redirection. But remember, it's still a birthday celebration." 
Whether confused or satisfied, most of the viewers agreed the trip was worth the time, travel and money. "Everyone comes out thinking differently than when he went in," one man said. His teenaged daughter remarked, "I think its something everyone should see. I'd want my kids to see it. At least they would know a part of their heritage. Even if it was only the good part." 


Thursday, July 17, 1975 
the observer 
5 


Free Spe~ch and Publishing Reality 
bv Fr. John Reedy, CSC (reprinted by permission} 
lh•rp at Noln· l>amP wt• n•cl'ntly had anolhPr ont• of !host• n•t·urring flaps about rt'sl rain Is impost'd on sludPnl publit·ations. !list rihut ion of an issuP of lbt' suldPnl llf'WSIHIPPr was rt•slriclt•d or suppn•sspd pruwipally. I j4alht'r. ht•t·aust• it containNI an adVI'rlist•rnt•nl offPring abortion in· 
forme~tion 
In tlw rwxl iss111', tlw papPr rPportt'd that 111 proiPsling tlw n·striction staff mt•mlwrs he~d nlf•ntiorwd lht• possibility of bringing ~11il e~gainsl llw univPrsily on a frt•Pdom of spt•t·t·h t·asl' 
Thl' univl'rsily offit'ial rl'alislil'ally poinll'd out that t'Vt'n if sud1 Cl suit Wt'rl' tilt·d. it would not fort'l' lht• school to providt• tht• suhsidy of spacl' and mont•y whil'h t·nahlt•s 1111' rwwspe~per to l'xist. l't'rsonally. I w1sh mort• school officials in St'l'tmdary and higlwr t•chwation would fan• this issue mort• n•alislit·ally. l'arl of lht'prohh•m S('('ml! to lw that mt~l 11f thPst' pt'1•plt'art' idPological libt•rnls who ft•t•l much mort• comforlabl1• wilh lht• rht•lorit' nf fn•pdom. II pains lht•m lo ht• put in a posit ion of n•sl riel ing frt•(•dom. 
l\111 lht' varitKm rrsponsihililit'S of their position rnukt' it practically impossiblP for tlwm tolivt' up lolhPir idt'alistir rhetoric. 
To mt•, tht· frt'Pdom nf spt'l'cn issut' is quih•dt•ar. Studt•nt.likt•anyom•p)sP,havP a h•gal right to publish. without proir ct•n­!<orship. anything lht'y wish (induding libPI, 
slandt•r and indlt•mpnf to vinlt•neP) as long as thl'y havt•lht• nwans to do somas long as I
twy an· rt'IHiy and ahh•lo fac1• lht• lt'gal and linanl'ial t•onst•quPnt't's of thPir actions. 
Tht• "'''" llt•Jmhlil·. ont• of lh1• most libPral puhlil'alions in lht• country. rt'l't'nlly camP undf'r rww owrwrship. and lht•rt• has b1•pn an 
t·xothls of staff and rontrihulors who haw had diffil'ullit's with lht' policies or lht• manrwr of Iht• n<•w owm·r. 
Thl'st• pt'oph• might think lht' prPst'nl puI•lislwr is wrong. insmsitivl' nr not vt'ry hrighl. But llwir fn•pdom of spt't'Ch has not hc•t•n t'llrluill'd. TIJ('y havt• eontributt'd to making tht• publication what it is, hut ht• owns it. If it fails or ht'enmPs vulnPrahiP to 
suit. ht• stunds to lost• most. 
l•:ditors. sludPnl or other. do have a proft·ssional Inot a IPgal) right to clear knowlt•dgl' of the ground rulPs, the people who arP ultimately responsiblP for tlw publication. ThPy can accept them or Sl't'k another oullPI for lbPir PxprPssion; it's tlwir l'lwit•t•. 
IIPn·l suspt•cl many schools art' at fault. If's oflt'n Pmharassing to formalizP lhP limitations lhPy havt' in mind. If's also Vt'ry difficult to dl'finP lht' limits or ac-t't•plabk lasll'. Almost t•vPry word or t•x­lll"t•ssion. no rnallt'r how vulgar, could bt• justifil'd if lht· conll'xl is just right. But how do yo11 spt•cify good judgmt•nl and good laslt• in a set of publishing guidelines? 
All !hal l'vl' wriltPn also appliPs to t'e~tholic publications tlhis may irrilatP soml' of lht• t'dilors who buy this column) 
hut  lht·n· is anolht•r wrinklt•.  
In  rt•e~lity.  I hi'  hishop and  lhP  rPiigious  
supt•riors  e~n•  not  aculally  lht•  ownt•rs.  

though lht·y may st•rvt• as publishPrs. Tht• dim·t•st• ils(•lf. lht' pt>opiP, art' lhP rPal t•wnPrs ~~a di1~t>san papt>r. ThP b~hop is tht'ir t'!Th•siaslkallt'adl'r, hut he is also, in a S{•nst•, lht'ir rt'prt'St'nlativf'. 
If Iht• tfioet'Sl' genuinely wants a bland, l•ullrtin lx•ard typt' publicati~. it has a right to sp1•.eify that as the assignmt'llt for tht• rditors. PPrsonally, I think a local church m•Pds much mon•. that it will be less vital.h•ssmalurt·ifitspublicationavoidsall ilt•mswhkhmighl causPPmharrassmPnl or disagn•Pml'nl. 
Hut lht• plue1• for arguing I he point is in the 
t•slahlishmt'nl nf policy for lhP papt'r. Mon•ovt'r, lht• Jlt'oplt· nf a dinePSP haw a If' gil irnalt' t•omplainl if local offieials f'Siablish publishing policif's which J4t•nuinl'ly l'onflict with lht' m't'lb and wishes of tlw t'ommunily. 
My point is I hal t'ditors and wriiPrs wlwlht'r lht'y art• in school. in lh(• rPiigious prt'ss or on eomnwrcial publications have no ahsoltllt• ri~hl to publish whaiPvl'r they wish in this parlicualr publication. Tht>ir 
frt•t•dom of spt•t•ch is t'XPrcist'd within the polil'it's t'SiablishPd for lhP journal. 
Most prof1•ssional journalists rPcognize this rl'ality. It would bP wPll for school udminislralnrs to recognizP it candidly and avoid tht• idPalistic rhetoric which they are unwilling orlunable to implemPnl. 
~ 
!
i : * 
: 

i ARTS &-CRAFTS it 
i i I 
:i  FESTIVAL  : t il  
:  : t  
:FREE:E ADM:  ISSION 10 am. til Dus* SAT • & SUN •  :k: 1 : •  

PARKING SAUSAGE & 
iENTERTAINMENT CORN ROAST :I 
! i! 
• 100 CENTER COMPLEX, • ' 
! ! • 
• MISHAWAKA • ' 
~~ 
SATURDAY ·* =i 
AND :t SUNDAY 
* i: 
: t 




The Ob,server and 
the University 
by Fred Graver 

Thf' confiscation of the first summPr Obst'rvt'r was an unfortunate incidPnl, hoth for thP Obsprvt'r and for the University. Tbt• Obst•rvt'r suffered loss of rev en uP and a sP!back in the developmPnt of a small summPr staff. The University, in thP words nf onP mpmber of the Administration. t•amP off "looking pretty foolish." 
ThPrP art• so many things that w!'rt' unParlhPd by that one quick instanct• whil'h ·~xpose the reality of the relationship hPI 1WI'en lhp Obst'rvl'r and lhP University. 1 'have het•n told by mPmhers of thP rPgular stafftokePpquiPt about the whole thing. To state lhl' facts of the case and thPir ramifications, they say, is inviting thP University to a confrontation which would destroy lhP Ohst'rvl'r. But the real potential damagp lies in allowing thesP things which heeamp apparent in the confiscation to pass by unnoticed. · 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••--------------­
~ 

RECORDS 

Phone 2SS-0266 
"Your Seven-Day-A-Week 
-

So, if somt•onP IPIIs '"'' rny work 1s shoddy, and lnsk lhPm why and J4t•l n rl'ply lhal makPs rny shoddy journul1sm look classic rn rompartson. wlwl am I suppos•·rl to thrnk? I lt11nk sorn•·on•· IS missing ttw pornl of why ltwy an· twn· 
I lhrnk 1t's ahoul lunt· that th•· Oh~t·rn-• pPoplt• and lht• i\dm1n1slrullon pPopl•·. parllt'lllarly lhosf' 111 Stwlt-nl i\fla1rs rstrH't' lht•y st•t•m lo ht• in lhf' position lo hunrllt• !Ills IJt•sl I, g~•tlogl'lhf'r and dlsf"uss just what lllf' Ohst•rvt·r is l'XJll't'lt•d to do, and whul it IS f'XJit•clf'd not do do In a st•nst•, this has alrt•udy ht't'n doni' rn many small. rnformal chats hPIWt'l'n pPopiP Hut it's about limt· thai wt• gf'l out-fronlahoul this. or lht•rt•Hrt• going In ht• som1• vPry IHg problt•ms whf'n snmt•om• at lhP Hbst'rvt•r dPeidf•s to fPPI more musclf' than ht• has 
~~~••~~~h~e~n~t~h~e-r-e~'s~f~o~o~m~-u~c~h~~o~f~n~o~t~h~i~n~g~.~~~~~~~~~~~ 
no one has con fro/"
be> b dy/an 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Now that the Univetsity has shown that it wiiJ.actwithacertainatnountofforceitthe Obst>rvt>r prints something that It doesn't approve of, it seems that the ObserveF is Pntitled to a working definition of what is 
Pxpected of it by the University. 

When I met with Fr. Burtchaell !the 
University official referre.d to 1"n Fr. RPPdy's article>, hP told me that he felt tha first Obst'rvl'r was totally "shoddy jour­nalism." I felt that, outside thad, the issue eontainPd nothing different than what was St'Pn during the year. 
1 asked Fr. Burtchaell exactly which 
articles he mpant. His reply was, "If I have to spPII it out to you, it's already hopeless." Well, what am 1 doing here, then? I had thought that 1 was working on this paper to learn something about journalism. That's lha reason everyone on the staff is here. And WP're at the University because it is a place of exchange, a place where raw talent is refined, where people help each other to 
I don't think there should be a set of for­mal do's and doni's. That wouldn't be healthy, and it would, in a snnse, put the ObsNVt'r and the University in a publication-publisher relationship. We don't need another Notre Dame magazine. 
But there has to be somf' understanding between the two. ThP Obst>rvt>r can't go
h f th · 
muc ur er m gaining some sort of un­
derstanding of itself, in gaining a sense of wht're it is in the community, without the University taking the limP to tell lhe Ob­St'rvt•r what it expects of it. 
And in the same sense, the Obst>rvl'r, has I~ lak~ a closer look at how the student body VIews 11. BPneath the daily skepticism of the 
student body towards the paper lies a set of 
h ·r· th 1 d
s arpcn tques at wou d o the OObst'rvt'r good to listen to. So, when the regular Obst'rvt>r staff gets hack this fall. it will be time to get together wi~h !host' who decide its purpose for existence and find out just what they are Pxpected to do. After that, it is up to tht• Obst>rvl'r as to how the Pxpectations an• fulfiiiPd. But at least they arP nul in lhP 
limitutions. lht• luboos t•stablished by thP grow. . open.








:·············································: ,--------------------------­
* 
BOOGIE RECORDS l 
HAS IT ALL I 
Best Possible Prices t 
on ALBUMS-8 TRACKS-CASSETTES.. : 
Wide Selection In Your t 
Type Of Music.... ! 
' 
*ROCK *SOUL *JAZZ *BLUES *BLUEGRASS : PLUS... clothing, hand-crafted leather goods, t 
I b d
jewe ry, water e s, and T-shirts. ~ 
• Special orders filled promptly! t 
909-B College Square 
I 
Mishawaka, Indiana t 
t
(across from Town & Country) t 1 
Music Store" 
... ~~ ...... J 1
~~~ ---~~~ ...... 

autrider~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 






Abortion: The liberal hypocrisy 
bring children up. Certainly white, 'middle­I understand and sympathize with those\\ class babies would have no trouble finding a who want abortions. . 
home.
i just happen to.think they are in most cases wrong. I guess I might want an abortion for What prevents such young "creative" my wife now that our children are in their women from having their unwanted child teens. But Iwouldbe wrong, too. 
and giving it to those who want one (aA white , young , middle -class woman creative and altruistic act, one would does not want a child to get in the way of her think)? Three things stand in the way:"creativity." Fair enough. Most of her 1) The mother does not want to be products, written or sculptured or bothered. Admittedly, childbearing is. 
whateverwm turn out to be less interesting difficult. Abortion is no fun either, and can than any baby. Many of the women want to be almost expensive. But it takes less time. 
be "free" in order to do hack work in the A liberated mother might lose her job. This business or publishing worlds. Still, that is shows the boss is not very liberated. It also what they want. And I think they should 
have it. shows that the mother is as job-oriented as T_he o_bvious solution i~ to have the baby and any gray -flannel type from the Madison g1ve 1t out for_ ad?pbon. The. dema_nd for Avenue fifties. But for the baby, she could adoptable bab1es IS at an all-time high. I \ punch her time clock, compete, get a new know people who are trulv desperat~ __ to account. 
seriausly! falks 
he high cost of Henry 
........iiiiiiiiiiiiiii--aa r t: b u c: h waI d 
PARIS--Every time Henry Kissinger comes to Europe he finds prices skyrocketing. 
While nobody talks about it at the State Department, the comp­troller is becoming very nervous about Kissinger's expense ac­counts and has urged him to cut down on his traveling. In fact, just before he left on his recent trip to Paris, Geneva, Bonn and London, 
he had a terrible row with a State Department accountant. The minutes of this fight were found in Kissinger's garbage. "Mr. Kissinger,! see you're going to Europe again. Don't you 
think that's a bit much?" 
"I haven't been to Europe in several weeks. I have to see Giscard, Gromyko, Rabin and Callaghan." 
"I appreciate that Mr. Kissinger, but my job is to keep an eye on expenses. On your last three trips you've gone over the $54 per day allowance that all State Department employees are entitled to. You're setting a very bad example for all our other personnel." 
1 "But I'll only be in Paris overnight. I'll eat on the plane and Giscard has invited me for lunch." "But·what about breakfast? That will cost you $54." 
"It will be my only expense." "And laundry? the last time you were in Paris you put in a laundry bill for $120." "I needed a clean shirt because I was going to see the Pope the next day." "And I suppose the $49 you paid to have your suit pressed was also necessary?" "I couldn't talk to Giscard in a rumpled suit, could I? He puts an emphasis on neatness." 
"Did you have to send a scarf to Madame Giscard for $150?" 
"I thought it would be a nice gesture. We need the French on our side for the oil talks."' 
"I don't know what we're going to do with you, Mr. Kissinger. Do you realize that if you make one more trip to Paris we're going to have to ask Congress for a supplemental appropriation?" · 
"I promise you I won't even tip this time. And I'll take the bus from the airport." "It isn't just Paris I'm worried about, it's Geneva. Do you know what the Swiss franc is worth as opposed to the American 
dollar?" 
"I have it all planned. I'm going to stick Gromyko with the check for lunch. If they want detente they should pay for it." "And what about the hotel?" "l'lll share a room with Marvin Kalb and we'lllet CBS pay for it. 
They'll never know the difference." You say that now , but you'll probably come back with a dinner bill for two like you did when you went to Brussels." 
"I can't let people pay for all my meals. It looks bad for American prestige. I'm not even taking Nancy with me onk this trip. The only major expense I can foresee is when I meet with Prime Minister Rabin of Israel in Bonn. But since I want him to give up the passes in the Sinia ~ cna'y really expect him to pick up his lunch,too, can I?" 
Why can't you split the check with him? Keep track of what he eats and you each pay for your own." 
"Rabin's tough. He might not I!O for it. The last time he bought me a meal ihe asked for $2.5 billion on military aid. When you're dealing in worldwide diplomacy there is no such thing as free lunch." 
"Mr. Kissinger, you have your job and I have mine. But unless the dollar, makes a miraculous recovery in Europe you're going to have to find some other way of going to all these countries." 
"What do you suggest?" 
"Have you ever considered a package tour run by one of the airlines? You get your transportation, your hotel rooms, two meals a da)! and a chance to visit one nigbtclub in any five cities in Europe. It's quite a saving." 
"I am not interested in a package tour. This is getting ridiculous. 
Are you going to sign my travel voucher or aren't you?" 
"All right.J:\ut I'm! not/ going/ to ok1 any of your laundry bills when you come back. There is no reason you can't take enough clean sbfts and ~ks to la_st you throlllh the entire trip." 
2) The mother thinks is is a matter of dealing with have their quiet and righteous principle to have an abortion. Admittedly, abortions. The creative young lady is no her child could be cared for. But what about rebel against conformist mores, after all. all those who could not? What about the 1 She would just feel socially guilty giving up I population explosion? What about black a child she. could support, if she cared to, 
children who are not as readily ado1-ced? and letting another couple have her child. 
Well, one reason black children are not I said at the outset , I understand the 
as readily adopted is that they are not put up pressure to abor~. It is now a bourgeois 
for adoption. The black woman, by and pressure. Aborting is almost fashionable. 
large, likes to have her children around, no But giving a child up, except in dire 
matter how many afflict her. That is a economic straits, is definitely not done. Not 
failing in liberal's eyes, but not a failing by the Joneses, anyway. That is the real 
easily cured. At any rate , it is a poor pressure on respectable white folk like us. 
argument for the white, liberal lady that she We could all SUJ:>port a child. could all 
is having her abortion as a gesture of give it out for a successful adoption. But we 
solidarity with the black woman who is not do not want to do either, for suburban­
having one. conformist reasons; so we manage to think 
our easiest way out is a "liberal" solution. 
3) The white liberal lady is ashamed to We are a bunch of very comic and timid put her child up for adoption. Here we come weaklings, who congratulates ourselvess for to the real reason most women of sort I am acting on our fears. 




DOOIISBUBY 
/J;GIJ'ftu~­
Nat!, t/5T£N, NGUYEN! M7UYEN, I'V& BE£N 
I III4NT IT 7tJ STlJP! lJIIS G&mNG /?$fRJ3 THAT 
15 A P&l?/OPOr 7l?ANSfTlON GOOP. YOIIANP )tXt< /!ltJ/.SH/3VIST 
1/N/J 71-lt PAI<TY PtHIIN/)5 IKJtft SCIJOT.I­BUIJ()J&S HAV& D&&N 
7!J/B?AAIC&! f)() I 'tOUUB& PICK/1-13 R6HT5 IIIlTH 
MilK& M'6&lF Y~.9~-t.A'ItRJ~ SOM£CF7H& 
a&AR, 80Y?/ ITtuON7 !liJOK-81/RNING! I§I I lf/IPIJI3N I
l 
~· 

CLA~ HER& ARE A f£IUHJR£ KEY PAT&S 
RJR YtJI./70 R£M&M­
913R... ufC/24: lENIN 
PASSE$ " 
tu£U., L£T'S 
Jl/STSIJYII& . tl//1$ FIRM. H& 1 /JI/J tuHATHA/J 
7lJ 8& /JON/3. 
N6VYCN! MAY I 5&13 
YOU FORA 
MI/VIITC 
PL£AS&? I 
• 
Thursday, July 17, 1975 7 ~ l
the observer 
I 
I I 
j


Israel's Sinai offer 
I I I I I I I I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I 

Israel has at last begun to .deal. 
I say "begun." It cannot stop here, it it is to be fruitful. But it is a good beginning. Israel was becoming the prisoner of its own conquests. The country was hostaged to the territories held as "Hostage" for future bargaining. David Ben-; Gurion always argued that the Israelis should hold no more land than they could work with their own hands. Employing a helot population of Arabs would, he feared, undermine Israel's moral position and reason for being. 
There were good tactical reasons for keeping the country small. It depends, militarily, on the rapid mobilization of a citizen army. In 1967, the army leaped to its borders with little effort, and could race from one front to another with maximum unity and coordination. 
But consider what happened in 1973. The Egyptian front was 120 miles forward, with the long sands of the Sinai between this 
outpost and the 1967 border. In order to hold · this outpost, the Israelis built their ex­pensive version of a Maginot Line -the bunkers of the Bar-Lev Line on the Suez Canal. But it was hard, short of permanent alert, to keep the bunkers adequately manned and supplied.Even as a lookout post, the Line proved delusory --Egypt did all its practice maneuvers in full view of the bunkers, and hid its invasion plans behind the general bustle. The Egyptians no longer had to cross the long desert of Sinai to mount an attack. They struck directly from their own camps -and the Bar-Lev Line fell with ridiculous ease. 
General Arik Sharon had opposed the Bar­Lev installations. Instead, he poured fur­ther millions into improved roads in the Sinai. The tanks muxt be able to roll swiftly, if Israel had to race across the Sinai each time attacks were feared. His plan worked no better than Bar-Lev's. He had to hit­

aASS, AS yO(J KNOfl/.. 7tJMORROII/ 
«16 lUlU 8& HAV!N6 ()(JR. FIRST EXAM. 
I 

k/!U/1£9& R£51'0NS//It&
f'fR. ~tNSM? 
~ 
~·)... ·.··· !'AI<!ONE IS M/Jt71Pt£
'.''·.····...·
''•·• ... CHOICE. RCMCMBCR. 
. . . . THAT IN £401 CASe,
.'.· ·.·j fAAIJ'!v~':~~r:s 
/IS c.cK<RECT.

.. 
-
.
E 
7H£ EXAM lUlU 8& ATNINE OtUJCK. IINY Qf/&STIONS? 
/ 
chhike to the 1973 war in a journalist's truck, 
so slowly were Israel's tanks moving. 
Now, of course, if Israel returns the Sinai peninsula to Egypt, that country gets the benefit of the road improvements and fortified passes. It is a type of the whole problem presented by the territories. They get harder to give up the longer they are held --yet they were held, originally, only to be given up. 
It is the "bargaining chip" problem. Things held only to be bargained away can, in time, prevent any bargaining from taking place. In order to strike a good trade, the person holding the chips has to stress their innate value. He wants them to buy large concessions. But if he places too high evaluation on them, each deal will fall through. Worse, he •viii begin to believe his ,own propaganda on the value of the chips, ~md fail to bargain with them even when the trade-off favors him. 
wills 
1 That is /position Israel has reached /with its clutch on the territories. The of­ficial line is that they are negotiable; but each year they are possessed, the more valuable they look --simply because holding on to them has .cost a certain amount. Buildings go up, settlers plant themselves, on the occupied land. Installations that would serve the other side become harder to move or dismantle. The citizens begin to think of their holdings as "ancestral." These trophies of war have become so many anchors on the Israeli spirit. 
Israel's government has now offered to give up a chunk of Sinai, including one key pass and important parts of another. It is significant that the government thinks this extraordinarily generous. It is not. It is a small part of one of the four disputed areas ­-a small part of the largest occupied area. But it is a start. It is to be encouraged. It is one chain that can be struck off. 
*l:t~dQ9.,~~rver
Founded November 3, 1966 
Fred Graver f Editor-in-Chief Andy Praschak Associate Editor Ed Pawlowski Advertising Manager Judy Smith I USB Editor Bob Tracy Ad Layout Candy Frankovelgia Production Manager Sue Zwick Production Manager Chris Smith Photo Editor Kate Bernard Production 
News: 283·1715 Ed•torials: 283-8661 283-7471 
Thursday, July 10, 1975 

tany prascia Requiem for a recession 
lant;~ shats 
It was a painless death --a soap•opera written into the script at the rieht moment, climatic ; but distant. 
For the ·most part · Americans seem to be taking it bravely, though some go on blindly pretending it isn't so. A normal eno~gh response --but like it or not, after months of assault, the R~cess10n has finally kicked off. However difficult it may be to convmce the bereaved, the funeral will certainly proceed in grand fashion. 
In fact the celebrated demise was written in specifically to have political ~onsequences that will be difficult to i~nore. This :-vas one of those legitimate assisinations ideal for startmg a ~ampa1gn; the timing was no accident. 
Requiems 
· His official candidacy only a few days old, President Ford was already stomping about this week singing requiems for the slump. In these days of covert assasinations, this is one killing for which the Administration is sure it wants credit. 
The fact is that re-election committees are among those political families that often gather at funerals like this one. Recent in­cumbents have been quick to parade cadavers of unhappy issues around the country, managing --like the soap operas -to kill off just the right nuisance at the right time. If many of the departed were only playing possum, no matter: the illusion of death is better than no death at all. 
So Richard Nixon sent Viet Nam to an early grave in '72 when headlines said peace was at hand. Lyndon Johnson heralded no less than the end of racial discrimination in 1964, and even Franklin Roosefelt buried the Depression five years before anyone knew it was ill. 
For the squeamish, a political funeral mayseem a distasteful way to begin a campaign. The usual convention business is, after all, more marriage than burial. But tradition notwithslandm~, Jerry Ford has had a bad time with political matrimony, both h1s "good marriage" with Congress and his honeymoon with th~ pr~ss ending up quickly on the rocks. Then there was the affair w1th Nelson Rockefeller --left now in an uncertain separation. 
No, if the Republican family is to reunite, it's lime for a funeral. 
' The Big Fish 
The slump is actually only the most recent in a series of metaphorical wakes. In one year, the Administration has managed to announce the interment of Watergate, Congressional over­spending, \CIA spying and (just this week) the New Deal. But the Recession was the Big Fish-the one they'd all been waiting for-­and we're likely to hear the dirges for a long time. 
It's not all bad, really. It's reassuring to find a political death for which the CIA is surely not responsible. And be besides, it is likely to be years before anyone feels the loss at all. 

CI.A55, 'rt'JI/ Mt.L /f/IVc eXACTlY 
RJR7Y MINI/T£S 7lJ aJMPf.li'T£ 711/S&XAM.
I 
II 
j 
1 
I I I 
I 
I I I I I l 
l ~ 
I 
I I I I I I I t I 
l 
l 


-~-..........----~~--------~--­
~-------------------------~----~ --­
Thursday, July 17,1975
the observer 



I USB 


Fee cuts ·th"featen IUSB lnPIRG 
Marianne Ciesielski 
. / 

A proposal by former trustee Carl Gray, an attorney from Petersburg at the June 30 mPeting of removing the the collection of fees for non-university related acitvities such an INPIRG was made into a recom­mPndation for a moratorium at the July 11 mPeling until a committee made up of faculty, students and administration could make recommendations to the board. 
Tht> moratorium of fees means that IN­I'IR<; or othPr non-university fees which havp alrPadv been approved will still be able to collPrl fees at registration in the fall. 
<;ray's proposal states: "Due to the confusion of understanding of the administration for collection of fees or funds from various organizations, I would like to recomm!'nd that the Board, at its next nweling, consider abolishing the collection of fees and funds for non-University pur­poses on all of the campuses, and also prohibit the solicitation of funds or fees at the place of registration or near the site of registra,tion during the registration .. .! make this in thE' form of a resolution.'' 
FQr several _years the unive.rsity has colleded funds at registration. for the lU Student {iovernment and for INPIRG. IU fE'es are voluntary in contrast to IUSB where 
IUSB library t·o host exhibit 
America's Bicentennial will be on E'Xhibit in thE' IUSB Library until July 4, 1976. 
ThE' display case will feature items of thE' past and books which the library has on Amt>rica 's history and hE'rilage. 
Windy Mosst>s, a student majoring in Fine Arts and Biology, dE'signed the lettering for lhP first display. ShE', also, brought a few novE'lty it(•ms from her great-grandparents for thE' Pxhibil. A handmade bedsprE'ad dating hack to 1849 by Lilly Mosses is shown in thP bottom right corner facing the referPnce dE'sk. Other items include a cherry picker, an apple corer, molding plains and wood plains from the 1800's. A cactus sits near thf.' American flag depicting lhP AmPrican deserts. 
"Portraits of A President" by George I>Pwit and copyrighted in 1908 is another feature of the E'Xhibit. It is a large volume and has a golden E'agle seal in the middle. OlhN books o~ Display include "The Americans" by Daniel Boorstein; "The American HE'ritagP, History of the 13 Colonies"; and "The Arts in America, The Colonial PE'riod." 
Other E'Xhibilions will touch on World War 
I. World War II and different periods in AmE'rican heritage. 
The Lilly Library in Bloomington is 
cE'I(•brating the Bicentennial by having 
SPE'-sial exhibits. 

ThE' Lilly holdings include early "broadsides" of Francis Scott Key's poem; first, second, and third printings of the song with music; early book printings; an in­credible number of different 191he Century sheet-music editions, some for solo voice and somE' for voices in parts; many arrangements for piano solo, and numerous oddities. 
There is a large sampling of past July Fourth orations in the manuscript collection at Lilly. Some of the speeches date back to the 1780's. 
"In its grandeur, its soleminty, and its consequences on mankind, it was second only to that other deed of deliverance and redemption which 1,776 years before transpired on the Mount of Calvary.'' This is the way orator James S. Rollins described the Declaration of Independence at a cen­tennial celebration in 1876 in Mexico, Mo. 
on the nation's. 5Qih\ birt,hday, .John. H. Franham gave an address in Salem, Ind. 
they are mandatory. The IV collections, however, have been threatened because of Gray's proposal. 
The IUSB INPIRG chapter was not ap­proved a I the July 11 meeting because of the uncertainty of what to do about non­university fees and the solicitation of such fees in the registration lines during class registration. 
Marianne Ciesielski, IUSB represen­tative, went to the July 11 meeting. Although, INPI}{(;'s approval will bedelayed until the committee makes a recom­mt-ndation to the IU Board of Trustees, Cit>sielski said INPIRG would have a table at registration to get voluntary donations for INPI}{G. 
The next meeting of the board is unknown, hut it is believed to be sometime in early St>utember. 
Walt Collins, University Relations director at IUSB, said the main concern of the board is where does the university draw the line· on fees and how many non­universHy projects does !he university personnel. end up collectinli( ·for. 
~ 

UnlikE' contemporary approaches to historic annivE'rsaries, the CE'nlennial E'X­position was not so highly commPrcialized, according lo Nugt>nl 's rE'search. HP noted !hal he did set> some ads for an Indianapolis dry goods store which urgPd womt>n to buy n!'w elolhPs appropriaiP for lhE' July 4th <'PntE'nnial celE'bralion. Nugent com­m(•niPd: "It seemed to bE' a very rPfrpshing, pE'rhaps today WE' would almost say naivP. kind of cE'lebralion in a very liiPral sPnsP of the word. People were simply taking note that it was a very special birthday for thE' nation." 
As WE' approach our second 100 years, one 
might ask if the nation has learned from its 
history. Can past mistakes be avoided? 
NugE'nl talkE'd about this: "Maybe the sort 
nf things WE' learn best from history is the 
idea that W(' have survived in the past. We 
can bE' confident about the future because 
our problems probably aren't as bad as they 
wt>rE' 100 years ago." 
On that July 4, 1826, he pointed out: 
."Fifty years ago WE' were unknown even to Europe, save as that remore and sub­servient appendage of the British Isles. Today WE' stand in the front ranks of a galaxy of RE'publics who have conquered their freedom under the auspices of '76. We are known, represented and respected whE'rever on the glove empire and com­merce unite to influence the destiny of mankind." 
Farnham expressed the hope that a speaker at the observance of the nation's birthday centennial 50 years hence would tell of the "elimination of slavery in a land consecrated to freedom" and that he would talk of the "abolition of private war, and rapacity and plunder on the high seas." 
It was the worst of times, but for a brief period during the Centennial celebration in 1876, it became the best of times and people renewed their faith in America. This is the way it was as this nation observed its tOOth birthday. 
Waller Nugent, chairman of the History DE'partment in Bloomington who specializes in recent social and urban history, is writing a book which deals with the period from 1870 to World War 1. He points out that the nation was in the midst of a severe and widespread depressi'on as the country's tOOth an­niversary approached. 
The trustees have di~fferent definitions of a non-university group. 
According to trustee Frank McKinney, who seconded Gray's proposal, any activity related to the function and activity of IU should be on the registration card. He has misgivings of an organization such as IN­I'If{G being a universitv function. 
TrustN• Joseph M. Black said he always has hp(•n worriPd about incoming freshman ht>ing Pnliced to spend money. "When the checks come back to the parents, ;hey don't know if the money they spend, if they paid for I hosp organizations, if for tuition or not." 
Th(• administration must come up with a r!'commPndat ion on the resolution beforp IhP hoard will act on it 
If Gray's proposal is ever inacted it could nwan that students may no longer be given 
~. options of contributing money lo INPIRG or othE'r organizations. Because of this, it could be that these organizations would no long(•r E'Xist. Many students have become upsE't. ThE' Indiana Daily StudE'nt has had many Pditorals stating the need for students to be given the option of paying fees for non-university related projects. 
Ticket pr1ces to r1se 

The trustees of Indiana University on June 30 approved an increase in ticket prices for basketball and non-revenue sports. Increased costs of supplies, equipment, transportation, and salaries were primary factors leading to the change. I.U. basketball ticket prices have not been raised since the 1972-73 season. Single admission tickets to I.U. basketball games will be $5, $4, and $3--an increase of $1 per game. Three categories of season tickets will be $50, $40, and $30. 
I.U. will play 10 home games during the 1975-76 season. 
Student tickets will be $1.50 per game, an increase of 50 cents, and student season tickets will cost $15. 
Faculty -staff tickets will be $3 per game --up $1--and season tickets will cost $30. The purchase of basketball tickets by faculty and staff at the reduced rate is limited to a maximum of two tickets. <Other tickets adjacent may be purchased at the regular price.) 
For non-revenue sports, charges for attendances will be removed from the football ticket price. Slrudent and and faculty-staff 
admission will be $1 per contest and public admission will be $2 per Pvent. 
;hursday, July 17, 19~5 

the observer
.,...............__......
I WILL DO ~1 
I TYPING
I EXPERIENCED ~ 


·=CALL: 233-8512~
1ncrease budget
IUSB trustees • ·~................................,.,. 

FOR A SPECIAL OCCASION
A 1975-76 general operating crease will absorb inflated costs of recprd high of 70,286 which WAs 4f\
1
budget--designed to cope with supplies and miscellaneous ex­per cent of the total student 
(OR FOR NO REASON AT ALL )
inflation and unavoidable costs in penses. And the remaining $1.9 enrollment for all six Indiana post­keeping with the intent of the In­million is earmarked · for secondary institutions. 
SAY IT WITH FLOWERS or GIFTS 
diana General Assembly-was unavoidable expenditures 
The Bloomington budget
approved June 30 by the trustees of resulting from higher fuel and 
provides $5.9 million for student
utility rates. 

from WYGANT FLORAL co. INC.
Indiana University. aid1-an increase of 5.2 percent and The balanced spending program On the income side of the ledger, reflects President Ryan's policy of applies to all eight I.U. campuses Dr. Williams explained that the not increasing credit hour fees and 


317 L WW SOUTH BEND
and was recommended by budget includes a conservative room and board rates during the President John W. Ryan to the estimate of Indiana University's coming academic year. trustees. It totals $169,929,375, an entitlement to support from the The IUPUI operating budget is 

232-3354 
inrrP::ISf' of $18,074,482 (Up 11.9 newlv created Higher Education $49,365,678, an increase of 13.3 per
percentJ. 
Enrollment· Contingency Fund cent. It provides for current and The new budget figure reflects a established by the Indiana General future programs which are savings of nearly $600,000 made 
Assembly. The fund will provide designed to meet the needs of the possible by the reorganization plan additional money to state Indianapolis metropolitan com­implemented during the past year. 
post-secondary schools which munity.
Vice President for Ad-increase enrollments this fall. 
Fi~e regional campuses will
ministration Edgar G. Williams "Since projections indicate our 
receive a total of $19, 259,245, up 13
said, "The largest portion of the 
student population will grow by 3.4 per cent.
budget increase--$12.5 million-is per cent," Dr. Williams said, "we 
The trustees also approved the
devoted to personnel com­expect we will ·qualify for better 
combined Indiana-Purdue ex­
pensation and will partially offset than $1 million in additional state 
penditure budget for IUPU at Fort
losses caused by previous budget support under the plan." 
Wayne. It totals $10,717,598, up 12.5
cutbacks and inflation." 
per cent.
Another $3.7 million of the in-Last fall, I.U. enrollments hit a 
/USB departmentChair appointed 
Fourteen chairmen of academic sociology department. Craig A. VanderVen, English, and W. Bruce Hosterman, formerly acting Zimmerman, physics. 
divisions and departments have chairman, was appointed chair­
been appointed at Indiana Davidson heads sociology 
man of the department of com­University at South Bend. The 
John M. Lewis has been ap­
munication arts. Rogelio de laappointments were c:onfirmed 
pointed instructor in political
Torre was reappointed actingrecently by the I.U. board of 
science; his former academic rank 
$2.75
chairman of the foreign languages trustees. 
was lecturer. Hosterman, in ad­

THEATRE 
LITTLE TlfEATREdepartment; he also serves as theHeading major IUSB academic 
dition to the chairmanship ap­
St. Malfs Collegecampus affirmative-action of­divisions are Thomas A. DeCoster, 
Phone: 284-4176

pointment, was promoted from 
AIR CONI JTIO~ET'
ficer.

public and environmental affairs; 
lecturer to assistant professor of
Robert W. Demaree Jr., music; communication arts.
Gerlad E. Harriman, business and 
Willard rPappointedeconomics; Donald D. Snyder, arts Arts and Sciences and sciences, and Floyd D. Ur­Others reappointed to head 
the Roytll Patrician 
bach, education. All are reap­departments in the division of arts D. Dean Willard was reap­
wants to
pointments. Dr. Urbach is acting and sciences were Jonelle M. pointed director of library-science chairman of the education division Farrow, psychology; Harold R. development for the South Bend, 
put a little love 
while a search for a permanent Langland·, fine arts; Andrew E. Fort Wayne and Northwest 
in your life_:_
chairman is conducted. Naylor, philosophy; George V. <Gary) campuses of Indiana Nazaroff, chemistry; Tom R. University.
Other appointments 
10% DISCOUNT 
J. Kenneth Davidson Sr. was appointed acting chairman of the 
Bowen signs bill­
ON EVERYTHING IN THE STORE 
WITH STUDENT I.D.
New course aiding IU students 
final amended version rerresented 
A compromise bill allowing for
to be offered a bipartisan compromik. giving
the addition of students to state 
somewhat more power to student
university boards of trustees, was 
government organizations but no
signed into Jaw by Gov. Otis R. 






Jl($t.P~
limiting gubernatorial discretion
in Fall 
Bowen in April. 

to-the point at which the Governor 
In the case of Indiana Univer­
·.. · .J .E W E L E R S 
had earlier indicated he would veto 
sity, a nominating committee 

thr oni.Y jt>wrlr;r in ,lht' •nlirP midlf'flll
A new honors course for fresh­the bill. -· 1 
representing the Governor's office 
,..fw,... 'vou"/1 firul u/1 tAr brll diamororlo!
man at Indiana University at South The bill will not take legal effect 
and student governments at each 
·' 
Bend will examine science through until copies of the acts of the
of the eight I.U. campuses will 
Viila(l" M.aU. !J.S. 31 tlaily I) 'til9
literature. The co~ will be of­legislative session are distributed 
· 'SuruJ11r_ DIHJD 'Iii 5 fered in the fall. to Indiana's county clerks. This
compile a list of 10 student trustee 
·al Darden Rd.
candidates. The Governor must 
It is part of IUSB's newly means the Governor cannot begin
then appoint one of these nominees to a two-year term as trustee.
created honors program, designed to implement the act until 
MEN-WOMEN 
to present special intellectual The original bill had required a sometime late this summer. 
challenges to its best and most In addition to I.U., a student will 
list of five candidates to be 
highly motivated students. serve on the board of trustees at
presented to the Governor, and he 

The world's largest
The course, entitled "Freshman Purdue, Ball State and Indiana
could reject all five and ask for as 
Honors Seminar: Science and State universities.
many more lists as he desired. The 

training school
Literature," will explore the human experience of science as expressed in literature. It will 

is hiring.


Cavalier
involve reading selected literary works, along with oral and written 
Where else can you learn the jobs listed
discussion. Two years of high 
below, and get paid while you learn?
Camera
school science is a prerequisite. 
Electronics, Food Preparation, Law Enforce­
Dr. Sandra Winicur, assistant 
ment, Motion Picture Photography, Missile
Scottsdale Mall 
professor of biology, and Dr. Tom 
Repair, Data Processing, Truck Driving, Com· 
munications, Construction, Radio Repair, Ad­
R. VanderVen , chairman of the 
next to 
ministration, Personnel, Accounting, Truck Mechanic, Wire Maintenance, and over 300 
IUSB English department, will 
teach the course, which confers 
Bishop's Buflet 
others.

two hours of college credit. IUSB students interested in the 0 pen Till honors program can get additional 
Call 
9 p m Evenings
information from Dr. Patrick J. 
Army Opportunities
Furlong, honors coordinator. 
5 p m Sunday
Scholarship opportunities are 

/232-1616
available to outstanding students, 
Camera
Dr. Furlong saiii. 
Join the people who've joined the Army. 
tlonors courses will have 
and Darkroom Supplies
li'mited enrollment. 
An Equal Opportumty Employer 

w 
.I 
t-­
NO 
SMC 
10 the observer 
Oliphant looks at' ~Kissinger • • • 








N·NOUNCLE'NG I 
D 

SAM 
U
... _... 
. \ 

•'· ..-~
.;.· ·:. JHE 
WHITE HOUSE 
., 

-wiTH DAILY SPECIALS ­
MON •. &. WED. -''o"RINK & DROWN" TUESDAY ''TEQUILA NIGHT" THURSDAY~ ''PITCHER BEER NIGHT' SUNDAY ,·,LADIES NIGHT" 
2839 N. 5th St. NILES 
....,._'C~·---------------...... 
t.Jow aBose Direct/Reflecting bookshelf speaker and its under $100. 
If you thought it couldn't be done, you don't know BOSE. Because the new BOSE MODEL 301 speaker is just that. A 
bookshelf speaker that provides reflected and direct sound· 
performance in the tradition of the internationally-famous 
BOSE 901® and 501 speakers. 
It provides such astounding performance for its size that, frankly, it's hard to believe that this speaker costs under $100. But it does. And, it's easy to place and can be adapted to all ' room environments. 
Come in this week and ask to hear a demonstration of the new BOSE MODEL 301 Direct/ 

421 North Hickory Rd. (WEST OF JQWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER) 
Scottsdale Mall
.. 

• 


Thursday, July_l7-'-,_19_7s________:_t.:...;h:....:e=--o:::....::b:....:s:....e.:::::....:..r-'v_e=-..:...r__-'1c......:.1 
Notre Dame scientist polls rANiCTCREAMSPEciAL~
I BUY ONE HOT FUDGE SUNDAy ! 
Vietnamese refugees in us I ,AND GET o~~h ~~~~pon) I 
Most choose to work with countrymen ~ ~lRRELL'S ICE CREAM PARLOR ~ 


If you were offered a temporary, low-paying job with an uncertain future in a city with many Viet­namese families, and a per­manent, high-paying job where there were no Vietnamese, which would you choose? 
When a social scientist from the University of Notre Dame asked that question of Vietnamese refugees at Camp Pendleton, Calif., he got the answers he had predicted. Most chose the tem­porary jobs. 
"It's human nature," said Dr. William T. Liu, director of Notre Dame's Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society. "They will go where their people are. Dispersing the refugees throughout the population is the most stupid thing. Physical isolation will harm their psychological well-being. In reality, the melting pot idea won't work anyway; it never worked with any other immigrant group." 
Liu predicted that the majority of Vietnamese will settle in Southern California because the climate is familiar and because there is a large Asian population, whose ~ulture is "sufficiently close to the Vietnamese culture." 
During June, Liu worked in 
California as consultant to the 
Navy Health Research Center, 
which was asked by the Marine 
Corps to handle health problems at 
Camp Pendleton. With the help of 
two other Notre Dame social 
scientists, Dr. Tom T. Sasaki, 
professor of sociology and an­
thropology, and Dr. Elena Siok-hue 
Yu, visiting assistant professor of 
modern and classical languages, 
and two technicians from the 
University's Social Science 
Tra'ming and Research 
Laboratory, Bonnie Katz and 
Norma Davitt, Liu set up a 
program to monitor a repr~sen­
tative sample of the refugees for 
severe cultural shock and stresses 
resulting from uprooted existence . 
<Liu is a naturalized citizen; he was born in China and came to the 
U.S. in 1948. Sasaki is a second generation, native born American citizen. Yu was born in China and is now a permanent resident in the U.S.) The Notre Dame group worked with Navy psychiatrists and a Vietnamese psychiatrist. The staff was too small to test every refugee in the camp-­according to Liu, between 30,000 and 40,000 over six weeks-but the monitoring system provided for severe cases to be reported to medical personnel. 

BARLO PLAYHOUSE 
"FANTASTIKS" 
July & ~August 
AT TINKERS DAM 
MICHIGAN CITY I INDIANA 
RESERV. (219) 
879-7373 
Liu said correlations with future physical problems can be made by questioning the new immigrants about specific stresses and life changes, such as bombings, loss of family and other war experiences. Follow-up monitoring of the same families will watch for specific problems in adjustment which probably will show up in school and job achievement. 
"Those who have the best chance of coping," Liu said, "are intact families and those with adequate education. Education is an im­portant factor." 
The Notre Dame professor said that, generally, the people have high hopes for life outside the camp, but that with time, the level of frustration and anxiety has increased. Liu said a group of children with no families is the most severely affected group; they are extremely depressed, with­drawn and paranoid. People over 40, especially those not well educated, also will have a very difficult time, he said, because they don't have the resiliency to 
adapt  to  a  new  language  and  
culture  
No  one  has developed  a  clear  

picture of the camp population, Liu said, because computer print-outs can't keep up with the continually 
changing camp population, and because much of the information gathered is not accurate anyway. "Much depends on self reporting by the refugees, who fill out cards when they enter the camp," he said. "They're scared to death and dun'! know whom to trust. We don't know how many have given us false or incomplete in­
formation." 

House Painting 
DOES YOUR HOME 
NEED PAINTING? 
EXPERIENCED 
PAINTERS {TWO N.D. 
GRADUATES) WILL 
PAINT INTERIOR­
EXTERIOR 
VERY REASONABLE!! 

CALL 234-1889 For Free _jiEstimate 
The camp composition has changed since the first refugees. arrived in May, Liu said. In the beginning, most of the refugees 
were well educated, orten trilingual and from high oc-CUpational CategorieS, including physicians, lawyers and military 
andgovernmentofficials. About60 percent were under 16 years old. 
"Now that figure has changed considerably," he said, "although we don't know exactly what the new ratio is. As more refugees come in from Guam, the camp population has become less educated; some are even illiterate. 
There are more fishermen and farmers now." 
Liu and his associates have 
recommended that different programs be developed for dif­ferent segments of the population,
instead of concentrating on a single program--sponsorship-­which is too slow and treats 
everyone the same. "As a con­
sequence," he said, "those who are easy to sponsor are moved out quickly, and the more difficult 
cases will be left untreated." 
Other recommendations included preparing communities to accept refugee families, and instituting special classes for children in Southern California. 
Liu is the director-designate of the National Asian American Mental Health Research Center, which will be located at the University of California-San Diego, near Camp Pendleton. He will be on leave from Notre Dame during the coming academic year, as a visiting professor at UCSD. 
ND-SMC THEATRE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE Tales From Mother Goose 
.July 12, 16, 19,23, 26. 
Weds. & Sats. at2:oo P.M. 
ALL SEATS .75 LITTLE THEATRE Sl. Mary's College 
.___P_h_on_e_:_2_8_4_-4_1_7_6____.. 

MEN-WOMEN 
If you're looking 


for an ordinary job, 
don't look here. 
Many jobs on this page require experien~e. Ours don't-just high standards and the desire to learn. (You'll be paid while you learn, too.) 
Many jobs pay a salary or wage. Our JObs include free medical and dental care, food and housing, a 30·day paid vacation every year, besides a good salary. 
Many jobs offer you one kind of work. We offer you a choice of training in over 300 good JO~S. And, if you qualify, we'll guarantee your JOb training in writing, before you enlist. 
And, finally, many jobs give you a~ opportu· nity to work for a company. Ours give you an opportunity to work for your Country. 
Call Army Opportunities 
232-1616 
Join the people who've joined the Army. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
~ SCOTTSDALE MALL 291-3800 = 
~......,,..._.,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,jf 
. I•••••••IIII••III.IIIIIIIIIIIIIF:i 
• 
You expect more from Standard : 

• 
d -. ~ 

• 
an you set 1t. ~'


TM 
• 
II~ 

•.at 
fLOYD'S STANDARD SERVICE~!~ ! 


~-~ ­
: 2~30 Uncolnway West STANDARD :~ 
• 
Mishawaka, Ind. ~~~ 1.. 

• 
Phone 255-0552 VW Service and Used VW Parts li·· : Inspection on Forei&n and American Cars E' 


• V W for SALE· · -Complete Car Repair -~ 
,..•••.........•...............
~ 
1 THIS SUNDAY JULY 20 1 




NO COVER CHARGEI 
WITH THIS AD I 
NOW APPEARING IIi 
SWEETHEARJ ~ ff; ~ IH 


1 SBULilS 
b 
~ 
I ITJTB CLUB ~ ~ 
I -~
On U.S. 31 between Niles and South Bend Free Parking-Ph. 683·4350 
L 
CONTINUOUS ENTERTAINMENT FROM 9 P.M. TILL 2 A.M. 1.~
----------------!,)

THROWING A PARTY?? 
HELPING YOU IS OUR BUSINESS 
5 OF THE HA·NDIEST SPOTS IN TOWN 
1. HANDY SPOT PARTY SHOPPE 3. ROSELAND PARTY SHOPPE 
1426 Mishawaka Avo. 113 OlxioWoy N. 
1. N. IRONWOOD PARTY SHOPPE 4. GOLDEN FLASK PARTY SHOPPE 
413 Hickory Rd. ar McKinley172~ N. Ironwood 
S. PARTY SHOPPE SOUTH 
• WINES a GOURMET FOODS 4401 S. Michigan ot !roland 
• 
LIQUORS • PARTY SUPPLIES 

• 
COLD BEER 


"II it's available, we will get it for you." 
.fREE DELIVERY 

I

287-7744 ·
OF SOUTH BEND 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 

Turquoise Lovers I Handmade Navalo "qusrll Bl->!!.'.om tor sale, from New 1/.exoco. call Tom 234·5646 
66' CHEVELLE. Great Engine; good transportation. $100. Call 
Dennis at 109-4 
FOR RENT 

HOUSES AVAILABLE. Summer or Fall. Near campus. GOOd condition. 
2346519 
2 ROOMS. $.40 per mo. Girls. Air cond. 
7!i19 
.NOTICES 

INTERESTED IN no-trills low cost let travel 1o :europe Africa, Middle East, Far East at minimum cost, maximum flexibility and. minimum WANTED 
hassle?  For  Information  call  
Ed uca tlonal  Flights  toll.free  (800)  
223-5569.  

HANDYMAN. REDUCED rent for summer.for single room near campus. 
2346519 
MARRIED COUPLE neeaed for llve.ln houseparents for foster home. 5al.-y. Write: P.E.P. Inc., 3012 S. Twyckenham, so. Bend, Ind. -4661-4 
MARRIED COUPLE to serve as llve.fn houseparents for teenage boys In residential setting. $6000 plus salary. Time off each week, paid holidays and vacations. Insurance, room and board. Call 259-5666, 9 1o 5 weekdays only. 
PERSONALS Kevin and entire Uniacke clan, .. 
Thanks  for  a  great  
weekend!  Neither rain,  nor  
lellyflsh,  nor  near-missed  

planes could ruin lt. I'll catch the Statue of Liberty next time around. --Candy 
.. 


Thursday, July 17,1975 



THIS WEEKEND 
AT 


N ICKIE'S 
Dance to 'QUARTET' 
Every WED., FRI., & SAT. From 10:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m. 
-NO COVER­-NO INCREASE IN PRICE­FREE PARKING -A&PLOT 
928 N. EDDY, S.B. (Just a Few Blocks South of NO) 

P·LAYLAND GOLF CENTER 
Open dawn till 10:00 pmf 
9 HOLE • P,o\R 3 GOLF COURSE 
Driving Range 18 Hole MU1iature 
LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWOOD 

.. 
f 

by Andy Praschak Associate Editor 
If the ghost of the Gipper has a sense of humor, he undoubtedly had the time of his life on the night of July 9, 1975. The stage of Washington Hall saw a per­formance unlike any other it has ever hosted since its construction in 1881. A team of experts in the fields of religion, metaphysics and witchcraft assembled to in­vestigate the reputed ghost of Washington Hall. 
The team was headed by Reverend Patrick Ray Chesm:tt of the Aquarius Spiritus Templum, a witchcraft church, in Elkhart, Indiana. Chesnutt, obviously the ring leader of the group, was considered the most psychic by the other members of the party. He was accompanied by his wife, also an ordained minister of what they refered to as the "pagan temple." The other member of the party belonging to the Temple was Mary Benninghoff, a high-priestess and free lance writer who publishes frequently in the South Bend Tribune. Benninghoff was the originator of the group and has recently written about her ex­periences with the supernatural in Chicago. 
Also joining the expedition was Reverend Dee Kuespert, an or­dained minister of The Church of Holy Light and an investigator of 
E.S.P. and psychic phenomena. Kuespert was accompanied by one of her colleagues in E.S.P. in­vestigation, Vicki Davis. Despite the lack of any supernatural ac­tivity in Washington Hall, Davis never lasted more than ten minutes before having to go outside and smoke a cigarette to calm her nerves. She claimed that at one point in the investigation "something" came and sat beside her. "That little bastard's right next to me," she exclaimed. She pointed out how someone or something had taken her shoes off and moved them over about six inches. The other members of the party, obviously accustomed to Davis payed very little attention to her discovery. 
Kathy Herman, a graduate student in Communication Arts 
came along to do some reporting conjure up a spirit was to extend his they would have some nice shots of for the WSND radio station. She aura. To do this he needed the help a Notre Dame landmark. turned white at the mention of the of everyone present. All were After the picture taking session, witchcraft church and kept trying instructed to sit in a circle and the evening came to an end with to compare the ghost of pretend they were enclosed in a everyone pretty disappointed. I Washington Hall with Don Juan. Iglass bubble. Everyone obliged, had no horrifying ghost story to 
.., even had a slight trace of rope burns on my neck." 
Unfortunately, no one in the party except for Davis who had given her present to the Observer readers, was able to figure out exactly shoes to the ghost and was outside Davis had a bad smoker's cough, what she was talking about. smoking· one of her many Kathy Herman still couldn't get 
At the outset of the journey, cigarettes barefooted. anyone to relate to the Don Juan Chessnutt explained that there are Chesnutt extended his aura but story, Patrick Chesnutt was unable no actual accounts of a ghost doing to no avail. Nothing happened. to conjure anything up and Dee physical injury to a person. With the aura extending session Kuespert didn't even have any However, he asked the security a failure, the next step was to turn rope burns to show for a hard 
iF===================~===:;. 
• §lVAJO &z•l IIDIAJI .JEWILIY 
• CUSTOI 
SILYERWORI 
• SILYER BUDS 
HESHI • OPALS 
• FIRE lUTES 
"~ Y• 011 TIG" 



THE HOUSE OF TURQUOISE, 
31.4 South Main Mishawaka 259-0751 

Llntan 1 0 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. Closed ~day 
guard to be sure to tell him where off all the lights in the building and all the exits in the building were. apparently, see what tricks The first half-hour in Washington everyone's eyes could play on Hall was spent in a good, old them. By this time Davis had fashioned ghost story telling finished her last pack of cigarettes session. (The kind we had in high and returned with two Notre Dame school when no hard drugs were Security guards, one at each arm. available.) She apparently felt more secure Kuespert pointed out an area in with them escorting her. Davis 
the upper balcony where a group obviously was unfamiliar with the had a strange experience two Notre Dame Security force. years beforehand. "Right up Everyone saw an occasional there, was a man whose head was "force field" or felt an occasional all bloody and he kept moaning, chill or hot flash but nothing'You're no~ here to help me; you're substantial. At least three or four only curious," she said. She also times while all the lights were out explained that at this session she Chesnutt's wife would wail, "Stop 

had an experience in which she felt that Patrick!", and everyone like she was being hung by the would pretend that they never neck. "I even had a slight trace of heard it. rope burns on my neck af­With the blackout session a terwards," she said. She noted failure, the group started to feel a that she was not going to go little desperate. Everyone who anywhere near the spot where had brought cameras took pictures that horrifying incident happened. of their favorite spots, hoping 
maybe to find something when the At one point in the evening, prints were developed. And if Chesnutt decided the best way to nothing appeared, then at least 
night's work. 
But as I was leaving Washington Hall, I thought I heard a noise in the back of the hall, a faint laughter. "Should I call everyone back?" 
"Oh, forget it. Goodnight, Gipp." 







