
server 
-st. mary's college 
Thursday, March 6, 1975


Students elect Byrne as 
by Jeff Arndt Staff Reporter 
Ed Byrne and his rtmning mate Tom Fitzgerald were elected student body president and vice-president in the run-off election held yeslerday defeating the opposing ticket of Joe Corpora and Tom Spurling by a vote of 1999 to 1471. 
At the election headquarters in La Fortune, Corpora commented on the election. He congratulated Byrne and Fitzgerald for a "hard and clean" battle and said that· he wished to thank God, his roommates, and all those who work on his campaign. 
President-elect Byrne then greeted his supporters, saying, "I'm suppo~ed to be happy right now, but after havmg talked with Pat McLaughlin, I realize that we have a lot of work ahead of us," he said. 
Commenting on the campaign, Byrne said that he thought that the results would be · • extremely close." 
Vice-president-elect Fitzgerald expressed his thanks to the many people who helped with the campaign. "Looking at that black­board, I can see my friends jumping right off it at me," he said, referring to the tally board that indicated the vote distribution. 
Byrne thanked the student body for the turn-out at the polls. "I especially want to thank Dillon Hall president Elton Johnson for the response from his hall," he observed. 
Dillon had the lightest turn-out during the primary elections last Monday. 
"The total vote today was about 3500, 
which is only 30 less than last year," he 
continued. "I think that this indicates that 
the student body still believes that student 
government can do something. I would also 
like to thank WSND for their endorsement." 
Hesponding to Byrne, current Student 
Body President Pat McLaughlin said, "l 
can only think of three words--'thanks a lot'. 
I want to wish Ed and Tom the very best of 
luck. Next year can be a rough time. 
Congratulations." . 
Byrne and Fitzgerald plan to meet with 
McLaughlin during the commg weeks m 
preparation for their term in office which 
will begin in April. . 
Byrne-Fitzgerald received 57.6 percent of 
the vote to the 42.4 percent received by the 
Corpora-Spurting ticket. With 3470 total votes cast, about 52 percent of the student body turned out at the polls. 
Byrne carried 13 halls and edged out Corpora in the off-campus vote. Corpora carried Holy Cross, his home hall, and Zah­
m. Spurling's hall. Byrne carried Fit­zgerald's hall, Cavanaugh, solidly. 
Breen-Phillips split tht>vote evenly for the candidates, 88-88. Byrne carried Alumni, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Farley, Fisher, Flan­ner, Grace, Keenan, Lyons, Morrissey, Pangborn, Sorin, Walsh, and Off-Campus. Corpora took Badin, Holy Cross, Howard, St. Ed's, Stanford and Zahm. 
Byrne lives off-campus. He feels that this may be some help to him in run­ning the office. "When I come on campus at 9 a.m., I'll be here for the day. My office will be a home away from home, so I'll be spending a lot of time there," he said. 
The two tickets advanced out of the primary elections held Monday. The original field of eight tickets was narrowed 
Students vo1ce op1n1ons 
bv Pat Cuneo and ~ice-presidential elections and a littleStaff Reporter over a half ofthe student body supported the Another election has come and gone yet final election last night. with the exception of the candidates, few . Many students were of the opinion that the 
students have felt affected by it. 
The consensus of students interviewed WPdnesday evening believe that the outcome of the election will have little impact on their lives next year at Notre Dame. 
Less than fifty per cent of the student voted in the primary student 
ED BYRNE AND TOM FITZGERALD begin their terms asn SBP ancf SBVP today. pair won last night's election by a margin of 528 for 57.6 per cent of the vote. 
to fwo for the run-off election.

Tuesday night the candidates met for public debate in the Keenan-stanford Cab­pel with over one hundred students at­tendine:. 
The Byrne-Fitzgerald platform centers on improving communications on all levels. To help in communications between the various branches of student government, they hope to set up a cabinet with representatives from the Student Life 
(continued on page 5) 
Gt
.•~J-r··j 
~.;. 
J. 

~ • f-
KATHY MILLS casts one more vote for SBP. By a 528 vote margin, Ed Byrne was elected lack of positive publicity. Freshmen Liz 
NO SBP. !Photo by~Louise Karas.) • dismal voting turn-out was not caused by student apathy alone, but rather the fact the students saw little correlation between voting for student body president and having the university improved. 
The issues of the past campaign or the lack of issues was a primary example of why many students refused to vote. Fresh­man Jeff Murray, a Flanner Hall resident, stated, "The usual issues discussed were not necessarily trivial but they certainly did not represent what most people think about in their day to day lives." 
A number of theories were offered to Pxplain the election situation. Senior Jim Baclawski from Stanford cited the Ad­ministration as the ultimate cause. "The Administration will not permit the students to be adults, and they won't let them be kids either." Baclawski explained, "We are told to be mature and lead our own lives, yet moral codes have been set up as definite controls. Not only can you not drink but can't play hockey in the halls." 
In respect to issues, Stanford Hall fresh­man Tom Coogan commented, "There weren't any really strong issues to get ex­cited about. I felt it was the fault of the candidates or moreover the entire system rather than the fault of the voters." 
In addition, sophomore Robert Fauria, from Flanner, believed, "this year there was a general lack of long-range planning in the issues of many candidates." He also felt that the students let the candidates down by not turning out at the polls. 
Many students agreed that there was a 
X Ix] IXI I Xl 
Corpora Byrne 

Alumni 35 161 Badin 60 46 B-P 88 88 Cavanaugh 27 174 Dillon 61 123 Farley 89 95 Fisher 30 105 Flanner 95 126 Grace 121 168 Holy Cross 130 15 Howard 87 44 Keenan 71 104 Lyons 56 n Morrisey 46 109 Pangborn 60 132 St. Ed's. 42 38 Sorin 32 54 Stanford 93 74 Walsh 40 114 Zahn 129 It 0-C 79 t3 
Total 1,471 1,919 
per cent 42.4 57.6 
Total Votes 3,470 

[8][8][8] 
Hinders and Kathy Berg, both of Farley Hall, added however, "the people were well aware of the election but just did not care." 
Jim LaFrankie, a Freshman resident in Flanner stated, "I don't think it matters who wins. It is better to deal in a social manner than a political manner, anyway." He commented that "Nobody on campus has taken the initiative of leadership. They should spend their time by organizing social activities rather than politics because little gets done by this method." 


One freshman from Flanner expressed an opinion that differed from the typical political and social comments about· the election. Bill Moher claimed that, "I voted for Byrne because I saw a good looking girl wearing a Byrne button!" 
SBP 

Alternate calendar may be considered 
by Christie Herlihy 
Sta fr B I'J)IIJ"tl'r 

Two students dissatisfied with the four-day Thanksgiving break scheduled for next year drafted three altern'lt•-'e caiendar proposals which they hope to presPnt to the Academic Council for consideration. Thev are currently in the process of polling support. 
Bill Scheible and Pete Morelli of Grace Hall are organizing the movement. "This whole thing started after the meetihe-candidates gripe session In LaFortune last Wedne!>day," Scheible said. "So many students resented the present calendar that Pete and I asked ourselves why we shouldn't do something about it." 
Talked to llesburgh 

St·ht>ible telephoned Fr. Theodore Hesburgh after the ,,,eet;ng to ask if there was a chance for students to appral the At·ademic Council's recently approved raiPndar. "Ht> said that if the students definitely supported a particular schedule then the prese_Dt one could be changed," Scheible reiterated "He added that we'd have to go to the people who made the <'decisiom--the faculty and students on the Academci Council." 
!<'aced with a spring breail; deadline, the two students are currently involved in settingup a pc!ling system in all dining hali lines, the Huddle, and the library basement in order to determine student and faculty !<Upport. Scheible said, "We must get the proposal submitted before the spring break, because afterwards all business affairs for the fall semester solidify." 
"Our goal is 51 per cent in favor of one of the proposals, and we will probably throw out the third calendar since it considers a pre-Labor Day start which might run into opposition," Scheible added. 
Seheible also plans to submit the outline of his alternatives along with as much supportive evidence that he <;an gather to Ed Byrne, the newly elected student body president 'Byrne plans to meet with Fr. Burtehaell in an interview aired over WSND tonight. 

Scht>ible's first proposal would favor a Labor D<iy start. Registration lor fall students would be moved from Tuesday Sept. 2, to Sunday August 31, with dasses beginning on Monday (Labor DAy) in­stead of Wednesday as the calendar now dictates. There would be no midsemester recess but Thanksgiving break would begin November 21 with classes resuming Monday, December 1. In short, the Monday and Tuesday of Thanksgiving week would be replaced by starting classes two days earlier than stated on the recently passed calendar. 
The second proposal centers around a post-Labor Day start and involves having classes on two !Saturdays.. Classes would begin on Sept. 3 as now recommended by the Academic Council. There would be no midsemester break, but once again Thanksgiving would begin on Friday Nov, 21, lasting until Dec. l. Saturday Sept. 6, which is free of a 
(Continued on page 5) 

1 
I 
------------~-­
world briefs · 
LONDON (UPD--Investlgators 
of London's worst subway 
disaster theorized Wednesday It 
could have been caused by the 
driver either committing suicide 
or blacking out and freezing at 
the controls. 
The body of driver Leslie 
Newson, 56, was one of the last 
three pulled from the wreckage 
In Moorgate tunnel Tuesday 
night, putting the final death toll 
at 41. His hand was on the brake 
that was never applied. 
SAIGON CUPI)--The United 

Stalt>s halted Its airlift to Phnom Penh Thursday because of heavy attacks on the airport of the besieged Cambodia capital, alrll ft sources said. "We're talking a look at the whole thing now and waiting for more military intelligence," said an official at Saigon's Tan Son Nhut alrbase. 
"Our crews are on standby, the planes are loaded. But we're not going anywhere right now." 
NEW YORK (UPI}--The New York Dally News and the 900­member deliverer's union, which has shut down the paper In a three-day wildcat strike, Wed­nesday reached tentative agreement on a settlement that could have the paper publishing Immediately. 
an campus 
today 
1:30 pm -sports & entertainment law forum, "legal aspects of counseling entertainers" by mr. 
c.a. scott, cce. 
2:30pm. law forum, "copyrights and royalties" by h. flnkelsteln, cce. 
2:30 . 4:30 pm -tax assistance, Ia fortune stud. gov't offices. 
3:30pm -soph lit. fest, michael ryan, lib. aud. 
4 pm -seminar, "some salient elements of solvated-electron structure revealed by optical absorption spectra" by dr. r .r. hentz, cont. room, rad. lab. 
4:30 pm -colloquium, "sums of squares of forms: a variation of hilbert's 17th problem" by prof. 
p.w. lam, 226 comp. center. 
by Jack C. Silhavy 
Star£ Reporter 

Approximately 5 years ago, during the time of student strikes against the Viet Nam War, some students working with ND Professor Charles McCarthy proposed a credited program in non-violence. This program, when approved, dealt with and worked against the violence in Southeast Asia. It was called "Program in the Study and Practice of he Non­Violent Resolution of Human Conflict." 
At the present time, this is called "Program in Non-Violence." It deals with hunger, population, energy, capitalism and war. These topics are considered violence, that is, structured violence or oppression. 
Prof. John Yoder, a world famous Bible scholar, is presently the director of this program of study, but is out of the country this year. 
In his absence the coordinator and acting director of the program is Prof. Basil O'Leary. O'Leary received Ph.D. in Economics from ND in 1968, he burned draft files with a group called Milwaukee 14. 
For his action, O'Leary spent a year in the Wisconsin Correction System. He stated that the four­teen of them burned about 5000 files, but that they were after 21,000. 
O'Leary considers himself an active man, strongly s·et against violence of all kinds. He also considers his Program of Non­Violence an active program. They are working at this time in the South Bend area against the "unfair violence of keeping a man in jail before trial, that is, without him being convicted," O'Leary stated. 
This program is also strongly concentrating its efforts with the World Hunger Coalition. O'Leary stated that he feels that the reason for starving in the world is the poor distribution of food. "The whole idea is that structural violence <oppression) is causing people to die, and not the lack of resources," he noted. 
In their work with the WHC the Program in Non-Violence has been sponsoring panel discussions on Epidemic Starvation. O'Leary said that he has been very happy with their progress in the discussions so far. He added that the persons on these panels are 

Grads face undergrads in All-Star Ping Pong Match 
Narsete from Cavanaugh complete the All-Star team. 
''There should be some good games--the grads are good players," stated Meissner. "Let's say we undergrads are optimistic a bout the outco111e of the All-Star game. There's no admission charge so anyone who wants to can come. We appreciate student support." 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from ·me Observer Be))(. Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

Non-Violence Progra1n studies oppression 
very noted in their fields. tp use panel discussions made up of 
"We are very enthusiastic," faculty. O'Leary stated. The next This program of study started discussion is to take place on out dealing wholly with the Viet Monday, March 10 at 8 p.m. in Nam War. Over time, with the end Galvin Life Science Center. Its of the war, the program has 
topic is the "Moral Role of the changed its focus. This year the University." focus is on starvation and O'Leary 
There are five courses currently noted that this is likely to be being offered through the Program around for a while. in Non-Violence alone, plus a few Years ago, students were eager offered in CO-<lperation with other to get into courses in Non-Violence departments. These five are because of the war. Now there are called: "Capitalist Critique", about 100 · students in the five "Structural Violence: Food, classes. O'Leary noted that the Population, Energy", "Seminar in classes stay at about 25 students, Non-Violence", "War, Peace, and which he feels is an ideal number. Revolution", and "Myth, Love, As to where the Program in Non­Violence." Violence is going, O'Leary said, 
All of these are taught by "We want to be sensitive to the O'Leary except "War... " which is fundamental causes of violence, taught by William Durland. They but still have a sensitivity to the 

are all individually taught but try problems at hand at any time." 
SOUTH BEND'S IRISH PUB 
~~.t. o.r' 
.t'.l".lra ST~~~ 
NOW SERVING GYROS (A GREEK SPECIALTY) AND OTHER FINE FOOD 
ALSO YOUR FAVORITE BEER, WNE AND CCXJ<TAILS ACROSS FR0\1 
GOOD OLD CORBY'. 


Thursday, March 6, 1975 the obser\Jer · 
By administration and students 
Use of Black Cultural Arts Center discussed 
Notre Dame as an important coming to a new place. He also
by Jeff Pecore 
reason for the decline of the added that whites and other non-
Starr Reporter 
Center. 


There has been frequent talk lately by students and ad­ministrators that the Blac, Cultural Arts Center on the second floor of LaFortune is not used enough by students to justify its existence. Interviews with both Father Dave Schlaver, Director of Student Acitivities, and Boise Watson. a graduate student who manages the Center, reflect conflicting opinions concerning the Center's value and use. 
The Black Cultural Arts Center was founded during the years of confrontation by blacks and the Civil Rights Movement. At this time, the administration received pressure by the black students at Notre Dame for a "place of their own." 
Dean of Dallas Grad School discusses progra:m with SMC 
In 'L11·\ I'ina nl Stall Ht•purll•r· 
Dr. Robert G. Lynch, dean of the Graduate School of Management at the University of Dallas, met with interested students and faculty on Tuesday and Wed­nesday, to discuss in detail the new cooperative program between St. Mary's College and the University of Dallas. 
In general, the University of Dallas will waive up to four three­credit courses in its management degree program, if the St. Mary's graduate has completed specific required courses at St. Mary's. 
There are two graduate programs in Management available at the University of Dallas: the Master of Business Administration <MBAJ and the Master of Science <MSJ. 
Students may specialize in four areas in the MBA program: Business Management, In­ternational Management <two commercial languages required, one of which must be English), Health Services Management and llniversity Administration. 
In the MS program. the student may choose Industrial Ad­ministration , World Trade, Quality Systems or Material Management. 
If a SMC graduate completes four semesters of reqmred courses in Law, Management, Economics 
and Accounting, the "thru­program · at the University of Dallas will waive these courses toward their graduate program, Lynch said. This will allow the student to complete the MBA program in three semesters in­stead of four or the MS program in two semesters instead of three. 
Lynch pointed out that with the 
Observer Chess Tournament held 
The Third Annual Observer Chess Tournament will be held in the LaFortune Student Center Saturday and Sunday, March 8 and 
9. All Notre Dame chess players are invited to participate. 
Players will compete in a 5­
round Swiss tournament, with 
rounds beginning at 9 a.m., 1:30 
p.m., and 7 p.m. on Saturday and 
at 9 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. on Sunday. 
A time limit of 45 moves in 2 hours 
will be set. 
Cash awards will be presented at 
5 p.m. Sunday to top finishers and 
to top novice and unrated players. 
The entire registration fund will be 
awarded. 
Competitors can register today and Friday from 1 to 5 p.m. in the Observer office for $2, or from 8 to 
8:30 Saturday morning for $2.50. All players must provide their own sets and boards, and any players with chess clocks are encouraged to bring thsm. 


observer insight: 
According to Fr. Schlaver, black law students, when a big "There was an original allotment event such as a lecture by a well of funds for the center which paid known black political figure is for most of the equipment that you planned, he said. see there now -books, m;umzin~s. Fr. Schlaver commented that 
and records. Since its establish the Black Cultural Arts Center is ment, the Center has received an mainly a social center and that of annual amount of approximately late it has fallen into disuse. $1,000-$1,500." "I get really frustrated when I 
Fr. Schlaver stated that most of walk by there and see the place 
the yearly allotment is used to empty all of the time. It seems that finance lectures by outside the Center is dying but I guess it's speakersandsocial events such as better to let it die than to kill it," dances. Usually, the Center pools Schlaver noted. its money with the Black Studies Fr. Schlaver cited a change in 
Program, and sometimes the the type of black stude"nt attending 
"thru-program", the student can take electives or advanced courses in place of those waived. 
By combining and coordinating the courses for these two programs, a student can get both degrees, MBA and MS, in four semesters, he continued. 
The program is available to students from all departments. The University will waive ap­propriate courses depending on the students' area of interest at SMC and her graduate choice at the University of Dallas. 
For students interested in languages, there are programs of foreign study available. A student may take required business courses in Europe, in the language they are studying, and have the courses waivered at the University of Dallas. There is also a sixteen day trip to Europe or South America available for three hours credit toward the graduate program. 
A graduate assistantship with 
full tuition will be given to one SMC 
student after being evaluated by 
the SMC faculty. The assistantship 
will cover the student's tuition for 
two. three, or four semesters of 
study, depending on the choice of 
the graduate program. 
"A student will work on interface 
with the school", said Lynch, "he 
might work in preparing foreign 
students for study programs, as a 
sports coach, with maintenance or 
U.S. resumes airlift to re-supply Phnom Penh 
PHNOM PENH <UFil-The United States resumed its massive airlift of food, fuel and ammunition today after rchel rockets forced a brief halt in supply flights to the besieged Cambodian capital. 
tl.S. officials suspended the eivilian-piloted, round-the-dock airlift for four hours this morning in the face of intense insurgent shelling against Phnom Penh's lifeline. Pochentong Airport. 
"The planes were put on a standby basis while we assessed the situation," a U.S. Embassy spokesman in Saigon said today. "The first flight of the day now has left." 
Shrapnel from a rebel rocket ripped into a World Airways DC8 jet unloading rice at Pochentong Wednesday, knocking out the plane's hydraulic system. The rrew managed to fly the aircraft back to Saigon without casualties. 
In Washington, a senior 
American official expressed hopes 
of keeping "the airlift going for at 
least a few more days" despite the 
fierce rebel shelling. 
Military anaiyysts believe 
Phnom Penh would fall to the 
Communist-led Khmer Rouge 
guerrillas within weeks if the 
United States stops the airlift. 
The guerrillas have cut all land 
and water routes to the capital, 
leaving Pochentong's 9,800-foot­
long runway as the city's only 
source of supplies. 
even on statistical studies for the school. The job could be a lot of things," he concluded. 
The University of Dallas is a thousand-acre campus located in the center of the Dallas Fort Worth metropolitan area. It provides, a practical link between the business organization and the academic community, the Management Laboratories of America, Inc. <MLAl was founded at the University. MLA is a non-profit, tax exempt cooperation chartered under the laws of the state of Texas to provide the student in management with a mechanism through which he may practice his profession, Lynch explained. 
The University opened a Career Advancement Office a year and a half ago, to aid in placement. Lynch commented that, "There are more job openings than there are qualified people to fill them, especially in the case of women and accountants." 
He also stressed the University's efforts to "keep the student happy and out of trouble academically. 
We wl'lnt to have a diffiuJt and quality management degree program. in the most convenient easy place to go to school." 
For more information, one should contact either Dr. Farouk Muwakki, Chairman of the Business and Economics Department or Dr. James H. Filkins at St. Mary's. 
Military sources said insurgents in the jungles around Pochentong pounded the airport today with artillery and rocket barrages. The guerrillas fired more than 100 rounds at the installation Wed­nesday.
The week-{)ld airlift--involving five commercial airliners and 14 
ll.S. Air Force cargo planes--has carried about 650 tons of rice, 700 tons of ammunition and 100 tons of fuel into the capital each day. 
As the rebels tightened their stranglehold on the capital, the United States began making plans to pull Americans out of Phnom Penh in case of a guerriila takeover. 
A U.S. helicopter carrier with about 1,500 marines entered the Gulf of Siam off southeastern Cambodia to prepare for possible evacuation of Americans from Phnom Penh. 
U.S. officials said the govern­ment i1as a series of contingency plans for evacuating the 400 Americans, including 200 embassy personnel, estimated to be in the city.
Some of the plans involve the use of American ground troops and air strikes in case the rebels capture Phnom Penh before the U.S. citizens can be evacuated. 
But U.S.sources in Washington have said they hope any evacuation of Phnom Penh can be achieved during a cease-fire negotiated with the rebels. 

"When the Center was founded, the black student attending Notre Dame, or any other college, felt a pressure to be a separatist. The type of black student we are getting now is less concerned with the black movement and a separatist philosophy," he said. 
Center should be continued 
On the other side of the issue are the feelings of the black students who use the Center. They ex­pressed a strong desire for the continuance of the Center and a conviction in its necessity. 
Boise Watson, current coor­dinator of the Center, and James Stewart, another graduate student and next year's manager, said they felt that its purpose was to provide a place both for blacks to maintain their identity and for non­blacks to learn about the black experience. "We feel that thPre is a definite need for such a Center," they stated. 
In contrast to Fr. Schlaver's feeling that the Center was unused, Watson said that the Cnter is used, on the average, by "50-60 students a day, mostly blacks." 
"I would say that almost every black student on the campus has used the center at one time or another and they all know about it through the nPw~letter sent out by the Black Studies Program. A few International students and whites use the Center, but our regulars are Afro-Americans," Watson added. 
Watson stated that students who come to the Center can listen to records, study, or obtain useful information for Black Studies research. "The Center provides a 'black atmosphere'," Watson said. 
James Stewart said that the didn't feel that the existence of a black center encouraged separation between the races but helped the black student at Notre Dame overcome any "cultural 
shock" he 


\MON. & TUES. 
. .5 TO 7:30 P.M. 
SHAKEYS 

SUPER SUPPER 
CHICKEN • PIUA • SPAGHETTI • SALAD 

$192. 
ALL YOU CAN EAT 
OU!dren 10 Yrs. & tilder 1~ year 
N.D. SPECIAL 
PIZZA 
$.50 OFF • DOUBLE SIZE $1.00 OFF • FAMILY SIZE 
OFFER EXPIRES MARCH 20 
%.M llE WEST OF SCOTISDALE MALL ON IRELAND FOR CARRY-OUTS 291-7500 
i 

."' I ~123 L tretalld rd.. 

blacks don't use the center enough, emphasizing that it is ope~ to all students. 
Watson and Stewart also stated that they would like to obtain more funds from the University <which subsidizes them now through Fr. Schlaverl in order to improve the Center's resources. 
"Presently, the $1,500 we get per year goes towaards maintaining the Center, refilling magazine subscriptions, and paying guest lecturers. Prices have gone up since tt>e allotmf'nt was decided ; , 
· 1968-6£1 but tht: annual funa hasn't," they said. Watson cited field trips and the updating of records and books in the Center as goals if more funds can be obtained. 
lljamma expresses need 

UJAMMA, a black student club on campus, also expressed a need for the Black Cultural Arts Center. 3ophomore Stan White said that the Center is used frequently by UJAMMA for various functions. "We held an informal rap session there with Angela Davis when she spoke here on campus and we had an art display at the Center as a part of a Black Arts Festival." 
White alsb noted, that th•e use o{ the Center serves as a type of lounge for off-campus black students during the school day. In addition, UJAMMA uses the Center as a small library for Black Studies materials and as a coun­seling center. 
There is an obvious conflict of opinions as to the need and use of the Black Cultural Arts Center on the Notre Dame Campus. From the evidence, there are enough black students who use and feel a need for the Center, that it should i::Je continued. Avenues for im­provement, however, should be explored. 
The Center is open from 9:00 
a.m. to 4:30p.m. Monday through 
For meatless meals 
Hunger Coalition to redistribute surveys 
by Grt>gg Bangs Starr Rt>porter 
The Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition is going to redistribute questionnaires regarding the possibilities of students not eating meat one or two eveings a week and or fasting one evening a week. The redistribution, which is ten­tatively planned for Wednesday, March 12, is being held because the Coalition feels that inadequate publicity on the first questionnaire held down the number of people responding. 
"I'm very optimistic about the second questionnaire" Fr. Frank Gartland, head of the Coalition said. "The publicity on the last questionnaire, for some reason or another. was inadequate. However . I was pleased with the responses in the first question­naire." he continued. 
According to a summary of the first questionnaire put out by the Coalition. 1,527 students out of a possible 4,961 students, or 30 per cent. answered the questionnaire. On the subject of meat con­sumption, 33.8 per cent out of the 30 per cent answeringing agreed to skip eating meat on Tuesdays and Fridays while 31.6 per cent would not have meat on just Fridays. In total, 64.4 per cent of the students answering said they would abstain from meat on at least Friday supper. 
"I think the figure of 33.8 per cent agreeing to skip meat on Tuesdays and Fridays is the im­portant one in that group," com­mented Gartland. "Catholics are supposed to skip meat on Fridays anyway, so the extra day does make a significant difference," he stated. 
The second topic of the survey dealt with the possibility of students fasting one evening a week. Of the respondents, 362, or 
23.8 per cent wanted to fast from supper every Wednesday. Gar­tland was ~nthusiastic with this return. "For every person we have skip a meal, a minimum of fiftycentswill be paid by the Dining Hall to the Coalition. We do not get any money from the meals where people abstain from meat, 
because the money saved from not 
using meat has to be used to find a 
substitute for it," he explained. 
Gartland feels some students 
would participate in the program if they knew where the money saved was going. "From the 995 people who participated in the pre­Thanksgiving tea and rice meal, we received $1,117.50 from the dining halls. "Gartland said. "This money was sent to OXFAM in Boston, which will use it in short and long term projects in 
Bangladesh." he continued. 
The second rice and tea meal 
garnered over $4,000. The dining 
halls contributed $1226.50 for the 
16354 people who participated in 
the meal. The collection held at 
the mass received $1714.50 while a 
similar collection held at West­
minister Presbyterian Church 
contributed $180.40. The Mardi 
Gras Committee contriuted $1000 
and $80 came from miscellaneoous 
sources.Campus Ministry is 
contributing $1,000 which came 
from the collection of the Feb. 2 
10:45 mass at Sacred Heart. The money collected from the 

Kissinger cautions: U.S. may use force against Arabs if energy needs not met 
Washington UPI -Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger told congressmen the United States could be forced into "surrender or using military force" against oil states unless it develops in­dependent energy supplies, White House spokesmen disclosed Wednesday. 
Press Secretary Ron Nessen and his deputy, John w. Hushen, said Kissinger made his "cautioning" statement Tuesday at a White House breakfast President Ford hosted for some 70 freshmen House members. 
They stressed Kissinger was not predicting what would actually happen, but merely suggesting what might occur if the nation fails 

Amerl·ca1 s poor angry t at 
to achieve Ford's goal of reduced dependence upon foreign oil supplies. 
"It was not a prediction of what will happen but a warning of what 

· could happen unless a national energy conservation program is adopted-no, not a prediction but a cautioning," Nessen said. Hushen said Kissinger suggested the end result of U.S.dependence upon Arab oil supplies could be "either surrender or using military force." In December, Kissingerprovoked controversy when he told a magazine interviewer the United States migh~,retaliate wi~h f~rce if tt faced_ strangulatiOn by another ml embargo. Both he andh 
r].ch get bl·gger rebates 
by Jamt>s R. King 

liP! -Poor people angrily denounced as absurd the ad­ministration's theory that it would be better for the economy to give bigger income tax rebates to well-to-do taxpayers. 
"I don't think that's right. If there's anything coming back, it should go to the poor people,"said New York City taxi driver Rocco Mangelli. "They don't have any money to begin with." 
Colonel Harland Sanders, 85, owner of the chain of fried chicken restaurants. said, "I'm no Socialist. but I think those rebates should go to the poor. Some people have too much money already." 

Asked how he woudl spend his rebate, low income spokesman Arnold Townsend of San Franciso, who runs a neighborhood self-help project, said, "A Jot of poor people might go buy pistols; so they could keep eating when the rebate m1•:1ey ran out. 
Mangelli and most others, rich •-------------. 
and poor. responding in a random lll'I survey, disagreed with Treasury Secretary William Simon. who said Wednesday, 
· ··To stimulate the soft spots in our t·<·onomv. the tax cuts must be 
l'm·us<;d mo.re heavily .. above the .ol\l,ti\1\J .ncurne leverl. 
"Simon ought to spend an hour inmy office," said Henry Munoz of San Antonio, Tex., a labor IPader. Munoz agreed with Simon that poor people would not likely spend 
a  cash  windfall  on  cars  or  
television sets.  
"Thereare  a  hell  of  a  lot  of  

pl'ople who haven't bought any dothes for their children. We've got schools with little children Wl'ring ragged clothes. You give them $200 and it would be like $2 million. It would go for shoes, little dresses -essentials." 
Equal Rights vote postponed 
A scheduled vote on ERA was postponed Tuesday when sponsors found they had Jess than 30 to win approval in Illinois. It would be a "big blow" to hopes of ERA sup­porters of getting the Amendment approved nationally this year, Mary Brooks, national ERA strategist for the League of Women Voters, has admitted. 
INTERNATIONAL CAREER? 

A representative will be on the campus THURSDAY MARCH 13, 1975 to discuss qualifications for advanced study at 
AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL 
and job opportunities in the field of 

INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT 
Interviews may be scheduled at 
PLACEMENT OFFICE 

AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT Thunderbird Campus Glendale, Arizona 85306 
Ford later said they did not expect that situation to develop. 
Nessen and Hushen likewise said Kissinger's comment to the congressmen was based on a series of "ifs" which he did not expect to occur. 
One such unlikely development, Nessen said, would be if the Arabs "suddenly cut the price of oil to a rediculously low figure such as three or four dollars" a barrel, thus reducing U.S. incentive to develop domestic fuel sources. 
Nessen said that, in Kissinger'soutlines, could radically increase U.S.dependence upon Arab oil and leave the_ nation completely vulnerable m the event of another 011 embargo.
The spokesmen said Kissinger was confident the nation would 
avoid this situation by developing a 
~~~i;~~~~ry energy independence 
• 

second tea and rice meal and all future sums amassed by the NO hunger Coalition is being semt to the Christian Organization for Relief and Rehabilitation. (CORR~ "Mike Davis of the Community Service Directors suggested we look into them." Gartland commented. 
"We decided to send our ear­nings to them for a couple of reasons. One was that CORR sends all its money to the aid of Bangladesh, which is one of, if not the worst off countries in the world. Another was that the priests and brothers of the Holy Cross have been working there since 1856, so we have strong connections there." he said. 
Gartland also mentioned that the director of CORR is Fr. Dick Timm. who is from nearby 
Michigan City and a Notre 'Dame Center," he concluded. 

"PRIME CUT" 
STARRING: lEE MARVIN 
GENE HACKMAN THURS, FRI, SAT MARCH 6, 7, & 8 features at 8:00, 10:00, and 12:00 P.M. 
ADMISSION $1.00 MEMBERS FREE 

NOW 
FREEWAY 
AND 
LISTEN 
NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS 
o" U.S. 31 bttwee" llilts. So. Bend-free Parkin&-683-4350 
I 
graduate. "Dick is the superior of Notre Dame College in Dacca, which was named after this university, so we know the money will go there. There's also no overhead." he mentioned. 
In following a plan esooused by Rev. William Sloane C..offin at Yale, Garland will start to donate part of the money raised by the Coalition to local beneficiaries. "Coffin's Yale group gives money to both Bangladesh and New Haven which we feel is a good idea. 
We'll try to duplicate it in South Bend. "he added. 
The Center for Justice and Peace in South Bend will receive our donations They supply poe;< blacks, chicanos and whites with food and clothing. So, if we raise $4,000, $3,000 will go to CORR while $1,000 will go to the Justice and Peace 

~----------------------------------------­

i Robin Trower/For Earth Below I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I I I I I I I I I 

On Chrysalis Records and Tapes 

Robin Trower/For Earth Below. Hot on the heels of Bridge of Sighs, Robin Trower continues his explor­ation of the guitar's dynamics and the human inner space. 
.Songs include "Shame the Devil," "Gonna Be More Suspicious." 
On Chrysalis Records and Tapes Mlr. llsl price $6.98 (Tapes $7.97) 
EVERY DAY lOW PRICE $4.99 

919-B COLLEGE SQUARE MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 255-0266 (ACROSS FROM THE TOWN AND COUNTRY 
SHOPPING CENTER) 
Chrysalis Album CHR 1073 
• • ,. ,. ,. * ,. , ' ,. , , , ,. 
•• , ....... • • • ,. , • .. • • , • • " • " J1 • II ,. ll ); I II II I 
~-----------~~~~------­
f 
:fhursday, March 6, 1975 the observer 
5 

Commandos stage Tel Aviv raid 
TEL AVIV <UPO -Arab initial attack and that one guerrilla guerrillas in commando boats may have been hit by gunfire from stormed ashore in the city's main counter-attacking troops. beachfront entertainment district The guerrillas held the hostages Wednesday night, exchanged in the Savoy Hotel, a fourstory 1 rocket and machinegun fire with structure 200 yards from where . police and seized hostages in a they beached their rubber boats. seaside hoteL The hotel usually accomodates 
Police sources said at least five pilgrims on religious visits to Israeli's were wounded in the IsraeL 
Needs their support 
Newsmen at the scene said there were unconfirmed reports that the guerrillas were demanding to 1 negotiate with the French am­bassador to Israel over their hostages. 
It was the first guerrilla attack in the city since Dec. 11, 1974, when a lone guerrilla threw hand grenades in a downtown movie 







Ford courts conservatives 
WA~H l Nt;TON (UPil I'n•sident Ford has temporarily shelvPd his confrontation with congrpssional Dl'mocrats over t•nprg~· and has started to mend ft•nt·t•s with Hcpublican con­spn atin•s who have told him they w11l not Ill' taken for granted. 
.\ dekgation of conservative GOP senators called on Ford \\.Prlnesday to express unhappiness with his compromise with llt•mocrats over his oil import fpp. with the budget deficits, his cabinl't appointmmts and his vice prt>sidt>nt. 
~m ..lamPs l\kC!ure. R-Idaho, told nt•wsmt•n the Senate GOP St<'Pring Committee which he Ot'S<Tihi•d as a "loose alliance of lht• mon• conservative mt•mbers of lh<• St>nat<•" told Ford "lw can be assun•d wt• 'II give our wholl'hl·arlt•d support when we 1·an. hut Wt' can't bl' taken for grantt'cl ... 
Thl' group had no complaints about arcPsstothl' O·:al Office, but \\kt'hlr!' added. "We'd like 
to be part of the President's gamP plan." nwaning a clesire for mort• t·onsultatiom before pn•sidmtial action. 
Ford's scheduled news con­fpn•m·p today. his 11th since he took offit't'. was l'xpected to daeal with aid to Cambodia and with his postpom•mt>nl of further oil tarif imn•ases in hopes of getting a l'ompromise mergy program out of the llt•mocratic controlled Congress. 
Tht•n• w:1s concern among Ford's political advisers over a growing rl'volt in the GOP con­st•rvatiw ranks. particularly in Yicw of Ford's intention to seek the presidencyin !976. 
l\1cClure said "there's a lack of appreciation of conservatives among ml'mhers of the White II ouse Staff:' 
Ill' l'riticized a ruling Bice President Nl'lson Hockefeller made while presiding over the Smale which conservatives feel aided those seeking tomake it more difficult to maintain filibuster. He said Ford should have held the line and not com­promised on th e oil ariffs. 
f<'ord has decided to ask Congress for $412 million to create summer jobs for young people. He also is formally asking Congress to appropriate $1.6 billion to continue 310,000 public service jobs until mid-1976. 

Alternate calendar considered 
(Continued from page I) 
scheduled football game would be designatd as a MWF class day, while Saturday Oetober 18, which is an aasy Air Force game, would be a TTHII class day 
The tn•rd proposal would involve 
a .pre-Labor Day start with a mtdtl'rm and Thanksgiving hrPak paralleling last year's 
Byrne elected 
(continued from page I) 
Council, Hall 

Presidents Council. Student Union, 
Ombudsmen and the Hunger 
Coalition workers. 
Ry his attendance at HPC 
meetings and through the 
publication of a student govern­
ment newsletter. Byrne hopes to 
keep the student body in contact 
with their student government. A 
poll and response to the alumni wiil 
hopefully improve com­
munications between the student" 
and alumni. 
Byrne and Fitzgerald hope to 
make the student government in a 
poistion so that they can deal more 
forcefully and effectively with the 
topics raised by the Committee on 
llndergraduate Life. The com­
mittee is the chief link between the 
students and the Board of 
Trustees. By reaching the Board 
of Trustees, Byrne hopes that he 
will be able to implement the 
changes the student body requests. 
THE STEPFORD WIVES 
A\oft''( rtlOdPm SUSJX"f'W §lory from rho aulho.. ol R<Kern.lry~ S.by. 
semPster. 

Scheible and Morelli conducted a poll of Grace and Farley residents to sample student feelings towards the present calendar and their proposasl. In both h lis 98 per cent voicl'd opposition tho the present calendar. The Labor Day start alternative received a plurality of the vote in both halls: 42 per cent of the 200 ml'n questioned, favor it. compared to .\6 per cent of the 105 Varley womt•n surveyed. In Grace the post-Labor Day proposal was favored by :32 per eent, the tr!I'd proposal. 24 per cent. Farley'& per cl'ntages Wl're much closer 23 per l'ent favorint the post-Labor DAy start. 29 per cent the pre-Labor !lay proposal­
Ht•sistance to the Labor DAy proposal may lie in the fact that the university would have to pay both faculty and employees holiday pay on Monday, Labaor DAy. and also pay dining hall Pmployees for Sunday reistration , as was done this year. But since freshman orientation takes three days, the dining hall employees would alrady be on jcmpus. 
As Bill Scheible later related "I talked with Fr. Edmund Joyce, Executive Vice President, and he said that there was no real com­plications as far as he was xon­cerned. The calendar change to him was just a queston of a few days and the employees wou,d already be here wiht freshman orientation... "Joyce felt. C-heib)e added, "that the parents might resent paying more to have their kids travel home sicne they would be temped house, killing himself and two others and wounding another 52 persons.

Israeli troops stormed a hoti!l in the city's beachfront en­tertainment district early Thur­sday and killed six Arab guerrillas who came ashore in commando boats and held 10 hostages in the building's top floor. 
The military command said some of the hostages were killed, but did not specify how many. It said the guerrillas were killed in the Israeli assault on the four-story building. 
Officials at the scene said the attack began when some of the hostages were freed, apparently by thz guerrillas, at 5:15 a.m. Military sources said earlier the guerrillas were holding an estimated 10 hostaees. 
By 3a.m. Thursday morning, the shooting had largely quieted down and soldiers surrounding the area of the hotel settled in for a tense wait while officials decided what to do about the hostages. 
Officials on the scene said that one point, the guerrillas sent down a woman who told army officers near the hotel building that the guerrillas were holding a number of hostages and were giving Israeli leaders 12 hours to provide them with a plane that would fly them to Damascus. Other possible guerrilla demands were not revealed. 
There was no word on the exact number of hostages and newsmen were not allowed near the hotel building. The area surrounding the structure was cardoned off by police and troops. 
Arafat is chief of the Palestine Liberation C'rganization, which claimed responsibility for the attack. 


·Detroit automakers want 
•

time to 1mprove cars 
DETROIT <UPllAlthough they are g<•m•rally happy with a new one­yt•ar dl'!ay in meeting clean air standards. Dt•troit automakers still want Congress to give them mon• timt• to improve fuel t•eonomv on their ears. 
That ..s what Hussell Train, 
administrator of the En­
'ironmt·ntal Protection Agency, 
l't•t·om nwnded W<•dnesday when he 
grantl'cl thP automakers' request 
for a dt'lay in ml'eting 1977 clean 
'tir standards. The delay was as 
far as Train t·ould go under the law 
;mel <'ongn•ss would have to grant 
anY mon•. 

hlrvslt'r \'ice President for 
Fngint'l'ring Alan Loofbourrow 
saicl a furthl'r delay could mean 
m·w ";lltPrnate advanced engine 
s\·stpms on•r the next few years 
that 11ill signifieantly improve 
gasolint• milt-age while continuing 
progn·ss toward cleanPr air." 
lh·rbt•rt !\Iisch, Ford vice pn•sidl'Dt for environmental and safety mgineering, said the EPA action "will permit Ford to con­tinm• to improve vehicle fuel t't'onomv. mPet consumer demand for a basic range of vehicles and avoid t>mployml'nt dislocations." 
But Chrvsler. General Motors and Ford a'll said the key is action hy t 'ongress and further delay in mt•t•ting a 1978 standard for con­trolling Pmissions of oxides of nitrogl'n. 
(; \\l \' iee President Ernest Starkman. in charge of the en­\·ironmental activities staff, said the oxides of nitrogen standard, to Ill' low!•n•d from the present 3.1 grams per mile to 2.0 g.p.m. on 1977 models. carries "a built-in fuel pt•nalty." But he did praise thl' n•mainder of the EPA action. 
Train's n•commendation that 
curn•nt ll'velf, be n•ta im ·d. 

to leave compus due to the longer break; otherwise they would just •• •• stay here for four days." • 
The post-Labor DAy alternative • should not run into too much op­• •position by taking up two Satur­days for classes, Seheible men­• •tioned, because "classes at Notre • ADame met six days a week in the not too distant past, and thesea re • not big football weekends, except • •
•
for the Air Force game which is •

away." • • 
• 
• •

• i• Wol1d~rts i• :• unlocksthe :•i ForeignLegion. i 
• 
Attention members ot America's Fatelgn Legion of Importcar owners. e • worldparts has the key to all yOAJr maintenance and MKYice problems. we • 

• 
hove quotHy-mode replacement parta tor your Imparl cars. And-con . e 

• 
recommend nearby dealers and garages to do the work. e • Ports ond service. Thors what Worldparta ts all about. • 

• 
11 you're o member ot the Foreign Leglan...stop In and-ua. e • We've got the "key" to worry-free driving. • 



: ~DMm : 
•· Auto Parts lor lmpolls • Division ot Ma_,Cotpofotlon • 
···············~·······························• 
•
•
• 
• 
I:•• 
: 
:
• 
,: 
le 
: 
------......-..............-.......l..o...-• 
' 

VOLKSWAGEN • TOYOTA • DATSUN • oPEL • VOLVO • MERCEDES • MG • FIAT • IRUM'H : RENAULT • CAPRI • PORSCHE • SAAB • JAGUAR • BMW • AUOI • Pf<TO • (ENGINE PARISI • 
•

we're headquarters lor WOrldparta-can us lot o MIVIce expert near you. •
•

ROSIL&MD . : 
AlloiicT1ifiliii1K •. : 
MONDAY, I'RIDAY••• 1-.•t....O
~ HOtllll :~ •: 
• IATU!!DAY .........ILIIL 1..2 •
•

"We service all domestic makes." : 
• 

272·6700 320 Dixieway NO<. : fat the liaht) : 
........................~...................... 
p. 
0. 
b 
0 
X 
q 
New identity in arrows 
Ol>:tr Edit01·: 
In your editorial of March 4 you extolled the value of The Ob­s.-rvt>r's new masthead, signalling a "new identity" for our campus newspaper. It is to represent, apparently, the recognition of "a position on campus of active leadership." A very noble sen­timent, indeed. 
Whom or what do you and your colleagues intend to lead, Mr. Editor? The students? How? Their opinions? On what issues? You speak of a "realization of 

r potential," as expressed through your new logo. Potential for what? 
r Student apathy? Was last Mon­
r day's announcement of "No candidates... No endorsement" 
r supposed to exemplify your new "dedication to responsible jour­
~ 
nalism and active leadership"? I think not. At the very least, your editorial dedicating the new masthead, and the sentiments for which it is supposed to stand, was poorly timed, especially when more important matters, such as the SBP elections, are at hand. At worst it is a collection of high­sounding principles backed up by frustratingly little practical planning. In the humble opinion of this writer, the new masthead symbolizes nothing more than an unnecessary facelift. "Leader­ship" means more than six neatly arranged arrows. 
r 
An incorrigible cynic, Paul Ryan 
In defense of the news 
()l'ar Editor: 
In Wednesday's Letters to the Editor column, student Kent Bransford complained that "the studied and practiced precision with which the Observer avoids any kind of investigative reporting is amazing." He then detailed two instances of "the constant adherence to the Observer's ap­parent credo of noncommittal 
jourtJalism. ,._ 
Citing the 1975-76 calendar as an example, Bransford charged, "The Observer did nothing to either point out the inequities of the situation, or, failing that, explain why they ran three front -page articles, previous to the ad­ministration's ultimate decision, that proved to be impotent in 
influencing the administrations ultimate decision." The Academic calendar for 1975­


76 was released Tuesday, Feb. 18. explore the inconsistency of the The editorial page in the Wed-situation? No, they did not." nesday, Feb. 19 issue of the Ob-No, the Observer did not attempt serv.-r featured an editorial by to explore the inconsistency of the Editorial Editor Fred Graver situation, because the In­entitled "The Big Con." Back consistency does not exist. The issues are available at the Ob-· $600 bonus granted the faculty in server office. lieu of a salary increase was ter-
Reaction to the new calendar med by the administration "a cost­was investigated in several Ob-of-living supplement," the purpose s.-rver articles that followed. of which is to meet the demands of Student Body President Pat an inflated economy. This is not to McLaughlin, student represen-argue that the supplement is tatives to the Academic Council, adequate or the best response to and various faculty members and faculty needs, but it is not in­administration officials were consistent with the ad­among those who evaluated the ministration's statement that a 1975-76 calendar in the pages of the tuition raise may be needed to Observer. In addition, subsequent meet the demands of inflation. issues of the newspaper presented Finally, I would refer Mr. students' Letters to the Editor Bransford to the Feb. 6 and Feb. 7 expressing their opinions on the issues of the Observer which calendar issue. The inequities of feature a two-part Insight by Bob the situation were pointed out in Radziewicz. The articles entitled news articles and on the editorial "Faculty Salaries Out of Pace with page. Economy" and "Economy 
Why were Observer articles Outruns Salaries" form an ex­"impotent in influencing the ad-cellent in-depth investigation of the ministration's uIti mate faculty salary situation in relation decision"? Why did Student to thP national economy. The Government survey apparently Insight rt'lkets a great deal of suffer from the same "im-n•s(•arch and eoncern with the potence?" "How," Mr. Bransford issul'. asks, "can the administration ln thl' past month the Obwerver blatantly ignore the students' rPpgrlt'rs havP delved into aspects wishes, and why?" of thl' SLC <ts an effective body, 
Obviously, only the ad-unin•rsitv staff salaries. the ministrative officials involved in graduak school. and the security thedecisionareableto provide an dPp<lrlml'nl. What more does Mr. answer that is not based on con-Bransford want'' The Ohsent>r is jecture. And the Observer went to opm to :-;uggestions. the officials in ,an attempt to Sinl'l'I"Pl~·. determine exactly what factors 1\htlll"t'Pn Flynndirected the formation of the 1975­76 clalendar. The results appeared in Observer issues following the release of the calendar. 


Somebody
As a second example lf the Observer's ··noncommittal journalism," Bransford refers to 



fibbing?
the controversy over faculty Dt>ar Editor: 
salaries. Earlier this year, the I'm writing this to publicize one faculty requested an increase in of the bigger things wrong with salary to meet the rising cost of Notre Dame. The following are Jiving. Instead they were given a quotes I took out of two ND in­bi-annual $600 bonus, which, as formation booklets-"This is Notre Mr. Bransford points out, may be Dame," and "du Lac." I don't terminated if the administration so. know exactly who writes this stuff, decides. Bransford charges that an or why--maybe because other article in the Observer failed to schools do it and we've got to keep make the distinction between a up-but I feel most of it is a little permanent salary increase and a unrepresentative of what this temporary bonus, and that some place is really like, and somebody 
misunderstanding resulted. He is ought to do something.correct. The Observer clarified the "Notre Dame is ... a dynamic, statement, and interviewed the diversified world where one can 
president of the Faculty Senate on smash atoms by day and ap­the salary increase issue. preciate the brilliance of the Dome 
Mr. Bransford then notes that by night. It's a song sung by a the administration justified the conglomeration of voices, in a possibility of a tuition increase by variety of tones and keys,citing inflation, "which is unlocking doors to perennial
equivalent to a rise in the cost~f­secrets" ..."There is a cetain living index." The same reasoning "bello-y-ness" about Notre Dame, that was used by faculty to obtain a a friendliness that lends itself well pay increase and was Ignored by to the dynamic, fast-paced life that the administration," Bransford rages on the campus, the center of charges, "is now being used to most student activity."... "A raise the tuition ... Did the Observer healthy attitude toward parietals make even a modest attempt to in addition to the advent of 

DOONESBURY 
coeducation at Notre Dame has greatly eased the uncomfortable "social situation" of yesteryear." ... "There is no common mold into which students are pressed at Notre Dame; each man has a truly personal ex­perience and reacts to his en-. vironment in an individual man­ner."... "He recognizes the dignity of the human person and can perceive the essence of humanity without being distracted by ac­cidental qualities qualities of race, creed, ethnic origin or social position."... "Notre Dame does offer a value-oriented education both inside the classroom and out. In a country disillusioned by the corruption of Watergate, Notre Dame may be a disparate oasis where virtues such as integrity, respect, dependability and spirituality are still given room to grow. Students are encouraged to think independently and act responsively in academic, social, spiritual, and all other areas of their lives. The rules and regulations which govern life here are aimed at encourageing this nature within the environment, an approach to living which, hopefully, will be expressed in our lives outside the du Lac world as W!i!ll. These codes are not imposed by a monarchy under the Dome, 
but are written and reviewed annually by the Student Life Council <SLCl, a tripartite forum for students, faculty members, and administrative personnel." 
Really now. lsn't somebody fibbing or what? 
Sinct>rt>l.\', Brent Mcinnis 
Where do you stand? 
Dear J<:ditor: 
Some noteworthy opinions were expressed in yesterday's paper which were volatile enough to shake me out of senior apathy and express my delight. There is still someone alive and listening out there. If this touches only Mark Nishan, it is a worthy enterprise. 
In order for a democracy to work effectively there is a definite need for plurality. For a plurality to exist, there must be people to express opinions. When there are no opinions., there is nothing for people to choose from or compare · decisions to. This results in the breakdown of any type of concern people may have for what is happening in reality. 
This campus in certainly not a democracy, which may be for better or worse. But we live in a country that is a democracy where plurality is not something that simply occurs, but rather is something that is encouraged. The reason it is encouraged is because it is a necessity. There are certain periods in our history when change was needed and where needed action brought about a wide rainbow of opinions to choose from. Debate and • practicality narrowed the options and, in the 
by Garry Trudeau 


end, the best option was chosen. But, what sharpened the decisions was the varying opinions that went into making it. 
This campus has a noticeable lack of opinions. People are con­t'erned a bout other things ­whether you passed a test, what are you doing, did you get a job yet. No one is very concerned about what you feel about issues. Hence, no one expresses and perhaps, no one feels. 
All of this has allowed the Ob­SI'rvPr to slip into a violation of the first rule of newspaper reporting ­that is, the need to be objective. Stories have been subjective and slanted. I have noticed this all year and haven't complained. This is the very crux of the situation -the fact that I haven't complained. I ­and everyone who has willingly been misrepresented -has allowed this to happen. 
News must be objective in order to create a plethora of opinions for the people who read. News must not be opinionated because it does nothing but oppress and condition the reader. Without objectivity in news reporting, there can be no plurality, and hence, no democracy. 
The Obs.-rv.-r is not a political parley or a forum for personalities. It is a professional newspaper that demands a modicum of prof­fessional standards. Because students have allowed the paper to lose its objectivity, students suffer. But that does not take away the Observer's professional ethic. 
There is one page where per­sonalities should take the forum and that is the editorial page. Its lack of use br the editors is in­dicative not o the fact that there aren't issues but rather that the editors don't know what the issues are and won't use their respon­sibility to comment on them. If we, the students, knew where you stood on the edirorial page, we would also know where you stand in your selection of news. We know neither and, as a result, opinions fall prey to sloppy newsreporting. 
l\1a~· w.-all J"t>st in pt'ace, 
1\lik.-navis 
the observer 
Night Editor: Thomas O'Neil Assistant Night Editor: Ginny Faust Layout Staff: Bob Mader, Terry Kerley, Mary Janca, Dan San­chez, Maureen Sajbel. Julie Pelletlerre, Gregg Bangs, Maureen Flynn Day Editor: Val Zurblis Copy Readers: Jeanne Murphy, Ken Girouard 
Editorials:  Dan Sanchez  
Features:  Robert Baker  
Sports:  Pete  McHugh,  AI  

Rutherford Typists: Nell VIII, J. Carney, J. Landis, T. Modglin, B. Nor­cross Compugraphlc: Morey 
Blinder 
Night Controller: Rick Huber ute Typist: Martha L. Fanning Plctu,.. Screener: Albert D'An­tonio ··llovrx Ad lAyout: Tom Whelan 


--------1 

Thursday; March 6, 1975 the observer 
7 
~----­



the terror 
of baroque horrOrs 

Michael Ryan, class of '68, returns to Notre Dame for the Sophomore Literary Festival with a first volume, Threats Instead Trees, published by the Yale Series of Younger Poets and the beginning of a reputation. Why this should be in a brief seven years after leaving Notre Dame is as much beyond the scope of this consideration as the inexplicable and wholly unwarranted daily rising of the sun. What is within the scope of this brief focus on the kernel of one man's life is an approach to the raw material of his appearance at Notre Dame ­his poetry. 
Ryan's poetry is the congealed ess~nce of claustrophobia and suffocation; a reenactment of the baroque horrors of those nightmares that leave the strongest among us writhing at the edge of sleep -doubly terrifying because they are compounded of the stuff of modern life and death is the only waking from life; or crueler still it is the portrait of the cancer within our own minds and hearts blighting a perfect universe with corruption original with man. Life is filled with darkness in Ryan's poetry-a darkness with dimensions and will reachingpseudopodia under the door of the poet's closet growing increasingly more malignantwith frustration as it fails to silence the terrorized poet. Ryan's poetry is not par­ticularly strong in the way that the Eddas dealing with a somewhat analogous universe are strong but it is honest. He probes the old fears, the little fears the fascinating fears wrestling with the questions, the moods most men live with in unquiet armistice until he seems to suffer from hypochondria of the mind. He probes the irrationality in the recesses of our minds with precise rationality and reafirms as he much the indestructability of our fears. 
by helen conrad 
His wrestlmg with fear locks him into a 
peculiar viewpoint oddly narrow for a poet ­
narrow but intense as the gift of poetry runs 
its straightened course although the in­
tensity grows somewhat dulled by repetition 
that wellrs away the poignancy of the once 
said. The ultimate weakness here, however 
is not so much the narrow focus or limited 
subject matter for the ultimate paradox of 
poetry is the ability of genius to contain 
infinity in the acutely finite -the aeatrice 
that becomes the way into the whok but that 
he imitates himself too well -it is not quite 
well that a young poet be so even -even in 
hysteria -and his calmest poetic moments ~are in his three poems set in an insane asylum. Private grief -"dead fathers circling the universe", the dilemma of a man both son and lover informs his work plays his muse, creates his language bearing the universality of all personalfrustration. 
If I write this only for myself, 
It is also to touch my life. 
And you, whose life is worse 
To feel genuinely sorry for you. 
His words are precise but his poems are vague even as the episodes in our lives are precise in their vague totalities. His lines are bare of flourish but their tension breaks away under their ultimate helplessness before those other and monstrous children of their creators mind. Ryan is both poetand subject. His thoughts turn inward and he sees with no illusions of objectivity the universe through the dark glass of himself. And we caught by the similarity of our subjective selves stare after him and shall as long as he c-:~res to see himself. 
responding with vibrancy after frustration 
by janet denefe 
Although she has published only two When she finally got some time to write The book, which takes its title from a an unnamed Midwestern city. The center of books, the powerful writing of Tillie Olsen Olsen says, "like a woman made frigid, I poem by Walt Whitman, begins from the vision is now Anna, the mother; she is has made a lasting contribution to literary had to learn response, to trust this point of view of Mazie, the oldest child in the trapped in sickne'i& and suffers a art. Tell Me a Riddle, a collection of short possibility for fruition that had not been Holbrook family. It is an impressionistic miscarriage. She watches her children stories, includes the title novella that won before. Any interruption dazed and silenced response to the world, which to her is a become thin and listless and her busband the 0. Henry award in 1961 for the best short me. It took a long while of surrendering to Wyoming mining town. It is a frightening being destroyed by his job in the sewers. It story of the year. The others: "I Stand what I was trying to write ... before I was existence; the mines threaten her father's is a portrayal of faltering, caring Here Ironing"; "Hey Sailor, What Ship?"; able to re-establish work." life daily and nearly claimed hers. The motherhood and fatherhood. and "0 Yes" have been widely taught and Dakota farm that they move to is blissful, Read Olsen. She communicates, she is anthologized. According to Jules Moynihan Although Olsen felt the unnatural silence but they can't make it. They move to a sensitive, and her intense, concentrated 
of Rutgers University, the book "explores could not be reconciled, her work is still suffering slaughter-house neighborhood in writing touches the heart. the deep pain and real promise of fun­incandescent. She chooses every word damental American experience in a style of carefully. Each sentence strains; meaning incomparable verbal richness anti hPAutv " is distilled. She has the capacity to com­
municate in a special way, to make the 
Yonnoodio, published in 1974,--wa;~. reader see, feel, hear, smell, and taste the 
experience she is writing about.
in 1932 when the author was only nineteen. 
She worked on it intermittently into 1936 or 
perhaps 1937. Olsen thought she had lost the "Tell Me a Riddle" makes a deep im­manuscript, but two winters ago she foWld pression. It is the story of a woman, sixty­some of the pages intermixed with other old seven years of age, who is tired of papers. Sbe spent several months at the struggling, coping, sacrificing for others. MacDowell Colony putting Yonnondio Her children are grown up, they have together from pieces of the original families of their own now. She and her manuscript. It was a difficult process, and husband must make their life together, but 
although there was no new writing, Olsen an immeasurable void separates them. 
says through "the choices and omissions, They cannot communicate, they can only 
the combinings and reconstructions-the bicker and quarrel. He wants to move to a 
book ceased to be the work of that long ago retirement home, she wants her home and 
young writer and, in arduous partnership, her solitude, "never again to be forced to 
because this older one's as well." move to the rhythms of others." Her 
Olsen was born in Nebraska but has lived husband cannot understand; he never. calls in San Francisco most of her life. In 1955 she her by name, but only by such sarcastic won a creative writing fellowship at Stan­titles as "Mrs. Live Alone and Like It" and ford University and a Ford grant in "Mrs. Free As A Bird." It is discovered that literature in 1959. She received a fellowship she has cancer and little time to live, so her from the Radcliffe Institute for Independent husband escorts her all over the country to Study in 1962-64. Although the writer is not a visit their children. She is simply tired, she college graduate herself, she taught at wants to rest, to return to her beginnings, to Amherst College from 1969-70 and at the music of the old country that is Russia. Stanford in 1972. She was 1973-74 writer-in­Her grandchildren want her to entertain residence at M.I.T. them with riddles, but she has none to tell. 
In the "Riddle Song," Walt Whitman speaks All of this is even more impressive in light of the intangible thing, the riddle that of the fact that Olsen did not write for motivates us through life, tha keeps us twenty years while she raised four children searching and pursuing. The old woman and worked at "everyday jobs." In her doesn't have this desire anymore. She words, "the simplest circumstances for knu-wr. 'to riddles. 
creation did not exist." In an article entitled 
"Silences: When Writers Don't Write," Yonnondio was acclaimed as a 
Olen describes the frustration that she "remarkable book of great depth and 
experienced. She had only snatches of time vibrancy" by the New York Times Book 
between rearing her children and working, Review. It is a novel of life reduced to 
but even this writing was "the air I barest survival--<lown in the mines, on a 
breathed, so long as I shall breathe at all." farm, in a packing house. This is poverty 
The beginnings of stories roused her, only to during the Depression, struggle with heat, 
be denied. "My work died. What demanded cold, hunger, dirt, and sickness, quite unlike 
to be written, did not; it seethed, bubbled the sugarcoated existence of the Waltons. 
clamored, peopl~ me." r;o, · .~q Olsen's vi~ion is painful, 
• mr_~: ~ ,._; •'~A ,~, ..-, t->·-?' .,1' ·'lit 1:•· . ,.·. ''· ~·-~.;'!: .. ._,, J.':llo.o~·.·: ~~,... 

8 
SLF lacking in community spirit 
by Fred Graver 
Editorial Editor 

Each of the past two Sophomore Literary Festivals have been initiated in a sense of loss, an at­mosphere of absence. Last year, the loss of W.H. Auden depply affected the opening days of the Festival. This year, the absence of Tenessee Williams pervaded the opening proceedings. 
The Festival began informally on Sunday afternoon, with a party at the home of Professor Kenneth Moore, of the Sociology and An­tropology department. The party was attended by members of the l<'estival committee, friends of the Festival (faculty and staff members who were helpful in the preparation's for this year's Festivall and author James T. Farell. 
When they weren't resurrecting memories of past Festivals, the guests were speculating as to the "personal reasons' for Williams' sudden cancellation. The playwright's decision was a disappontment to everyone in volved, but especially to Professo~ Moore, who is a close friend o William's. 
"It was really his idea to come this year," Moore explained. "I just left notes around telling him what the dates were. One day he called and asked 'is the Sophomore Literay Festival being held at Notre Dame this year?' and I told him that it was beginning March second. 
"He said, 'March second is fine with me. I'll be there." It just noored me. What was great was the fact that he was coming specifically for the Festival, not just for an appearance at Notre Dame." 
A ('ommunity of Writers 

The concept of the festival as a community of writers was en­forced by Professor Edward Vasta, of the English Department. 
"The Festival is the pride of the University," he stated. "It is a community that is established in the course of the week. People say that toomuch money is spent to keep all of the authorshere for one week. That we should bring them in for individual appearances, so we can get 'big names'. TBut they're missing the whole point. It's the community, the spirit1"
.. 

in which Brodsky appeared 
son. John Logan Jr., in a program

evasive and unwilling to comment 'The community spirit which the of songs and poetry. John Logan
on matters of contemporary 
Jr. opened the program by per­

. literature and his own writing. 
Committee strives lor seemed to be formaing some of his favorite
Perhaps someone shouldhave 
songs, including two of his own,

asked him about the Arab oil 
"On the Road So Long" and

cartel. meeting impossible difficulties.' 
"Fool's Gold". 

observer insight: 

The formal opening of -the Joseph Hrodsky appeared in the Festival was Joseph Brodsky's Library lounge Monday afternoon reading in the Library Auditorium. to speak to several poetry classes. Brodsky was accompanied by He was again evasive and aloof, Professor Ernest Sandeen, who appearing to be uncomfortable read the English translations of the with the question and answer Russina poets work. format. He told one of his escorts 
that he was much more used to 
being a lecturer than receiving
Brodsk~· 
questions. Brodsky left at three MondaySandeen's incisive in-afternoon, and upon his departure .

terpretations of the poems made a something very crucial happenedfar stronger impression on the to those who had been close tohim. 
audience than the author's own They realized the effect that therecitations. Though Brodsky Festival community, even thoughspoke with deep and heavy it was still in a very primitiveemotive force, in dark musical development, had made on
rythms, his voice and physical Brodsky. He expressed a greatappearance betrayed the effect of love for Notre Dame ano itsthe emotion he was attempting to people. He said that he reallyconvey. Sandeen, on the other didn't wish to leave, but had ahand, aside from the benefit of the responsibility to his students. "DoEnglish translation, was able to you think that perhaps I can returnestablish a sense of poetic contact sometime, just tovisit and talk towith the audience. 
people," he asked.

Seven of Brodsky's poems were read, among which were "Verses 
Purdy 

on the Death of T.S. Eliot", "Funeral of Bobo" and Odysseus Monday iiight's reading featured to Telemachus." the .works of James Purdy, as read 
The reading was followed by a by the author and Lamar Alford, a short question and answer period, close friend of the author. 
on to the next. 
The audience had but one question for Purdy, concerning his difficultieswith authoring such brilliant pieces on black people. "I don't write about black or white, I write a bout people," Purdy replied. Then, he added with a smile, "I'm a black writer." 
Mr. Alford replied to the same question by saying, "it doesn't matter if a writer is black or white. 
If he is gifted, he can write about anything. I've read that story to friends of mine, without telling them who wrote it, and they swear that it's written by a black man." 
<As it turns out, Williams has gone to Mexico to work on the final version of his new play, "The Red Devil Battery Sign", which is going to open on Broadway soon.

' His cancellation was a result of the "WHAT DO YOU WANT ME TO SAY?" John Logan, Sr. autographs one impending work on the play, of his works for NO student Cathy DePauw. coupled with high blood pressure.) 
Later, Moore added some second all aloofness. "The first thing he James Purdy left on Tuesday thoughts on William's cancelled saidwhen he got in the car at the afternoon. quietly and without appearance. ''He may airport was 'Please turn the radio much show of enthusiasm for the haveovershadowed the Festival," off, I'm somewhat hostile to that Festibal. The community spirit Moore said, "Because ot hiS tame. kind of music.' He's pretty cool to which the Committee strives for There is a tendency for the famous I everyone." seemed to be meeting impossible 
At the reception for Brodsky, there was a general feeling among_ Mr. Alford read a short story those who had attended the entitled "Home by Dark". The reading that the question-answer story concerns two black women period should have been who have losttheir sons, one to eliminated. "It seemssilly to death by sleeping sickness, expect an audience that is another to the ways of an alien somewhat overawed by the per-urban world. Alford's style was formance of the author to ·im-overwhelming, gripping the mediately begin asking him in-audience and draining them 
. telligent 't)uestiori," commented emotionally by means of intensely 
1 one student. effective dramatization. Following the reception, a party Purdy read the first chapter was held at Coach Digger Phelp's from his latest work, "The House home. For the members of the of the Solitary Maggut." His style Festival committee, itr offered an was in direct contrast with opportunity to exchange notes on Alford's. Instead of taught drama, the personalities of the author-Purdy read with a sense of dry 
s. One of Joseph Brodsky's wit. He slowly presented his escorts, Caren Conaway, ex-phrases! allowing the audience to pressed at the 's over-fully enJOY each one before going 

writer to take some of the limelight from the others authors, who are just as good but not as well­known." 
The members of the Festivai committee present at the party walked around the room, smiling, bringing drinks to the guests, attending to the confort of all in· volved. They were almost toomuch the perfect hosts and hostesses, a major difference from past committee members. Perhaps the cause of the differenct lies in the large number of com mittee members. Working witl forty people calls for a great deal more structuring and organization that working with nine, the number 
• of membersin last year's com­mittee. 
difficulties with the departure of 

lmpn•ssions of thl.' Authors Purdy, for James T. Farrell was the only author remaining on campus.
Jean Thornburgh, escort to James Purdy, commented that Farrl.'ll Purdyis "a very nice man. Very quiet, but pleasant. Hard to get to 
Farrell's lecture on Tuesdayknow right away, but I think that night was the only presentation sohe's going to be really great forthe far in this Festival that was not aFestival." 

reading of the author's own works.

Monday was spent visiting Originally, the Festival regularlyclasses. Purdy spoke before a featured literary critiCs, but thisFreshman Seminar class in the tradition has since fallen by thLibrary lounge, which acted as wayside.
though this real life author were fhe lecture centered on thsomething from another planet. 
development of the Midwest as aPerhaps the publicity for the center for American writing. The

Festival led them to expect the most memorable line in the lecture authors to be super-humans, and was a reference by Mr. Farrell tothey weren't prepared for the the "big boom in natural gas" that quiet, ple~sa~t Mr. Purdy. 
occurred in Indiana. 

SLF CHAIRMAN CHRIS MAHON talks to Prof. Ernest Sandeen over refreshments, following last night's presentation. 
Following the lecture, a member <'f t.he class of 68. reception for Farrell was held at Loganthe home of Gary Zebrun and , . Frank Barrett, both former . Log a~ s readm~ Wedn~soay Festival chairman. The party was mght YI~lded the first ft;ehng of well attended by students and commum~y of any re~dmg thus faculty, but the hoped-for com-far. .This sense deriv~d fr~m munity atmosphere did not Logan s. feel for the Umversity, materialize. Ironically, the guests· from his refere~ces to s~udents were already speaking with a tone ~ere and_ from ~Is expressiOns of of fond memories about the JOY at bemg at a place where so present Festival. There was many tal~~ted people ar:e gathered strong optimism expressed that together. He was the f1rut author the arrival of John Logan and his to . openly acknowl~ge th~ o~r son, Michael Ryan, Lawrence wrtters at the FestiVal durmg his 
Ferlenghetti and Tillie Olson performance. . . . 
John Logan was JOmed by h1s 
. 

would put the Festival back on Its feet. 
Wednesday marked the arrival of John Logan and his son and Michael Ryan. Both Logan and Ryan have strong ties to Notre Dame. Logan served as a Professor in the General Program from 1951-1963. Ryan was a Logan Jr. was followed by Logan
Sr., reading from books of poetry which he had written while "in and around South Bend." Three of the poems were written for students. Logan eharmed the audience with skill and talent, mixed in with an 
(Continued on page 11) 

ARE YOU A DOMER IN DISTRESS WITHOUT WHEELS? When In Need Of A Quick Getaway. Call Lois At 

-

Rent a PINTO or MAVERICK for Just $5 Day & 5¢ /Mile (MIN. AGE 21) 
61)9 E. Jefferson, Mi'shawaka 
MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRLS 
*  2 FILMS  
*  BOOKSTORE  
*  LIVE FLOOR SHOW  

1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET ~ALL 282~ 1206 FOR INFORMATIQN 
Thursday, March 11, 1975 the observer 
9 

Cross-cultural relationships 




Afro-American, African experiences noted 
by Tom Brennan Staff Reporter 
Experiences of Africans in America and Afro-Americans in Africa were explored in a seminar moderated by Prof. Joseph Scott, director of the Black Studies Program, Wednesday mght in La Fortune. Other members who took part in the panel were: Professors Aleck Che-Mponda, C. Zvob~o and 
P. Kolanda. Dr. Roland Cah­mblee, a medical doctor from the South Bend community also participated in the discussion. 
The seminar presented the experiences of Afro-Americans in Africa and those of Africans in America and sought to analyze the relationship between the Blacks in America and Africa. 
Che-Mponda opened the forum by discussing the ways in which African achievements have been systematically excluded from the annals of history. This exclusion, in turn, has led to the division between Afro-Americans and 
· Africans, which has facilitiated the exploitation of the African con­tinent. According to Che-Mponda, 
I Africans are all those who are 
1 black in color. Elaeks in America and Africa are one in the same people owing to the fact of their common ancestry. 
Zvobgo related the procedure that Afro-Americans should follow if they hope to avoid difficulty in 
· their dealings with Africans. The Afro-American must be willing to learn the African culture and should be receptive to African customs, according to Zvobgo. He believes that one of the most important things the black American should do is to learn the 

local language. Above all, the American should avoid a missionary attitude which would put him in the position of a reformer. Africans are often highly sensitive to attacks upon their culture, as are most coun­tries, according to Zvobgo. 
Dr. Chamblee related his ex­periences as a visiting doctor in Uganda in 1973. Chamblee stated that to understand the relationship between Africans and Afro­Americans, it is necessary to go back and look at the history of the Afro-American in this country. 
Deadlines announced 
St. Mary's roo1n-pick procedures outlined 
by Anna Monardo 
Starr Reporter 
The SMC Housing Office an­nounced recently that room deposits will be due April 9-ll. 
The $50 non-refundable deposit will be due on or before April 9 for juniors, April 10 for sophomores and April ll for freshmen. 
This year, room selection will be conducted by a new procedure in . order to eliminate problems which occured in the past. "There will be no blocking off for incoming fresh­men. Last year, seniors got priority, then juniors, then in­coming freshmen, then sophomores. This procedure caused a lot of problems," said Nanette Blais, co-{)rdinator of the Housing Office. 
The lottery will take place on April 14. Juniors will meet in the Student Affairs area of Le Mans Hall, sophomores in the Rec room in the basement of LeMans, and freshmen in the basement of Holy Cross. The lottery will determine priority within each class. 
Next year's seniors will have first choice of room selection after Resident Advisors. There is a separate selection process for 

Observer
SMC Security Department installs new 
emergency telephones in all tunnels 
Reporters
by John Kenward who shouldn't be there, then the Starr Reporter phones would put us in quick The SMC Security Department communication with the caller." has installed phones in the tunnels First proposed by Marie Pierri, connecting residence halls which vice-president of fiscal affairs who have direct-line contact with the is the direct superior to the security office. security department, the phones 
The purpose of the red phones, were put into effect in the hopes of says Security Director Anthony improving efficiency. Kovatch. is "for emergency "Before, if some emergency purposes only." He continued, "In occurred in one of the tunnels, the the event a girl gets stranded in a people involved could only get into tunnel when the entrance doors are eon tact with us with the telephones locked. gets sick in there or if up in the halls," Kovatch com­
st:meone is spotted in the tunnels mented. "Now we are in im-"Each phone has a certain ring 
3 -5 p.m. Sunday
•J• Jcode to it and once it is taken off

Dr Cruz to offer bl lngua thehook,itdoesn'tst?pri~gin~. So 
• as soon as the rece1ver 1s p1cked 
(at South Bend police station) 

presentation on Monday 
by Don Reimer Starr Reporter 
Dr. Roberto Cruz, director of the Ray Area Bilingual League, will give a presentation on bilingual Pducation Monday, March 10, at 
7:30 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
The presentation, sponsored by l\H:CHA and the Student Union, will include a film, narrated by \'ikki Carr and will be followed buy a talk on bilingual education. 
The thirty-three year-{)ld Cruz received his Ph.D. from the llniversity of California at Berkley and has written numerous publications on various aspects of bilingual education. 
Cruz held various positions previous to his present one as director of BABEL. He has been a guest lecturer and instructor at such schools as Stanford llniversity, St. Mary's College in California. and California State llniversity at Hayward. Cruz is also a bilingual education con­sultant at large in the state of Caslifornia. 
The Bay Area Bilingual 
Education League (BABEL), 
headed by Cruz, is composed of a 
merger of five Bay Area school 
districts, which joined forces to 
eonfront the need for bilingual 
education. The league was started 
in September, 1971. 
BABEL is geared towards the implementation of a general curriculum adaptable for all districts. A television program oriented towards the pre-school childre, "Villa Alegre", is being developed .with the help of BABEL staff. 
The statement of BABEL ob­jectives explains that the organization whole-heartedly accepts a child oriented philosophy of growth. Every child can profit from this instruction because it "fosters an understanding and respect of other people's way of 
life." 

Ernie Ribera, a MECHA member, in charge of publicizing the program noted the need of bilingual education in the Sputh Bend Area. 
R.A.'s 
Seniors will select their rooms on April 21. Room selections fgr next year's juniors will be on April 
22. For next year's sophomores with lottery numbers between l and 150, room selections will be made on April 23; those with numbers from 150 to the end will choose their rooms on April 24. All students must bring their room deposit slips and their I.D. cards with them to room selections. 
"Those students who decide to move off-campus or to go abroad must come to the housing office to 

file their decision before April 9," commented Blais. After this date 1 all deposits are non-refundable. 
1 "Students who decide to move off-campus after they have chosen a room can do so only with the discretion of the housing officials," Blais added. Complete information is posted in each hall and further details will be available at the beginning of April. Questions pertaining to room selection will be answered in the housing office, phone 5401. 
1 
This history includes the brain­washing of many Black Americans regarding the worth of the African. 
Chamblee further pointed out that the dignity of the family is still respected highly in Africa. Cah­mblee believes that his acceptance in Uganda was facilited because he had a valuable skill to offer to the Uganda community. 
Kalanda concluded on the basis of his experiences encountered in America the last six months and claimed that skin color doesn't necessarily link people. The Africans are distinguished from Afro-Americans in that they have been conditioned by different elements. According to Kalanda, the African has been conditioned by the European society. 
The forum was followed by a lively question and answer period in which members of the panel and students in the audience related their experiences in dealings between Blacks in Africa and in America. 
SMC class rings to be delivered 
Any St. Mary's student who ordered a class ring last fall can pick up her ring today between 
3:30 and 5 p.m. in the LeMans lobby. A receipt and balance of payment are required. 
mediate contact." 
Kovatch added, "We are not expecting a big crime wave or anything like that, it's just one more deterrent factor to stop any traffic we don't want in the tun­nels." 


Reporter's Workshop 
The phones,which are spaced 40 to 50 yards apart, are designed so that if the receiver were taken off 

with JE~RY LUTKUS,
of the hook and then dropped or abandoned, the connection in the 

(South Bend Tribune & former' 
security office could pinpoint the 

Observer editor.)
phone's location immediately. 
up, we know where it is. In this way, the security department is 

Leave from Observer office at 3 p.m. 
able to help people even if they cannot tell us themselves where they are," Kovatch explained. 
When asked if there have been any incidents involving the phones and an emergency, Kovatch replied, "In the three or four weeks 1 that we've had them, we have 

NICKlE'Sfortunately had no serious in­cidents. There have been a few prank calls, however. During the first week we had six or seven calls like that, but now they're down to 
IWJ
one a week." 



PRESENTS
Commenting on the outlook of 


' .• )J
the new innovation, Kovatch said, 
I \ ~~
"I think they will work out real well." 

SMC Social Commission 






60 HOURS
Presents 

OF THE LOWEST BEER

The Harrad Experiment 



PRICES IN THE COUNTRY! 
MON, TUES, WED: 
NOON -MIDNIGHT 
7,9&llpm  Friday March 7  THURS, FRI, SAT: NOON  -8:00 p·.M.  
Carroll Hall  -Madeleva  
PLUS THE BEST HALF-POUND CHARCOAL  
. Admission  $1.25  GRitLED HAMBURGERS IN TOWN  

J 
-
j 
~ 
~ 
1 4 
l 
~ 
l 
I j 
A 
~ 
j j j 
~ 
J 
j j 
~ 
~ 
~ 
t 
~ 
j
.. ~ 
4 
.., 

_:__1=-O__t~h~e~~o--=b:...:s::...e=--=-r-=-v--=e:...:r____~Thursda_y, March 6, 1975 
To re-open assassination investigation 
Rhodes urges students to write Congress 
has spent considerable time to stimulating congressmen serve the concerns of the The purpose of these letters as 
by Marianne Schulte working with other members of the towards an extreme awareness in American citizens and are anxious cited by Quadrini is to make these 
Starr Reporter CIPA to lobby for a re­the problem, the letters would to do the right thing." men acutely aware of the problem,
investigation of the actual events serve as an impetus in spurring Quadrini also noted that many and ln this respect he said that it 
In a recent telephone con­of the assassination of twelve into quick action the members of people are reluctant to spend time would be very beneficial for each versation, Rusty Rhodes, years ago. Rhodes's main pursuit the subcommittee of the House writing to congressmen who student to write to his own Executive Director of the Com­is to present the American people Judiciary Committee, through probably don't read their letters congressman as well. mittee to Investigate Political with the true facts of the oc­which the bill must pass in order to anyway, but he argued that in this Also working in conjunction with Assassinations, stressed the curence, because he "believes the ultimately move out to the floor. case the letters would genuinely Quadrini on the project is Joe urgent need for Notre Dame and public has a right to know what Philip Quadrini, a Notre Dame exercise a critical difference. He Bury, and the academic com­Saint Mary's students to write really happened." student working with Rhodes in hinted that a number of mission, which contributed letters to key members of the Working with Texas striving to induce student support congressmen are reticent to be monetary support for the signsCongress and Senate in an effort to Congressman Henry Gonzalez in the matter, urged that every outspoken about such an "ultra-now posted with the congressmen'said a more immediate recon­towards this goal of re­student write a short letter to sensitive" issue, which might and senators' addresses com­sideration of the investigation into investigation, Rhodes added that Senator Birch Bayh, Represen­involve President Ford and the pelling the students to write as the assassination of President although various individual tative Henry Gonzalez, Senator established findings of the Warren soon as possible. Quadrini and his Kennedy. congressmen and senators have Frank Church, and Representative Commission. co-workers are in the process of 
Rhodes, along with a majority of been receptive to their arguments, Don Edwards. Edwards is the "A vast number of letters to a establishing a committee on other Americans as shown by they are anxious to realize the head of the House Judiciary congressman can have a campus for the purpose of at­recent Harris and Gallup polls, support of the American people Subcommittee, and Bayh is also a steamroller effect in applying taining a greater campus-wide
questions the accuracy of the before involving themselves in this member of the latter. Church is a pressure on him," Quadrini effort. Warren Commission findings and controversial matter. In addition member of the CIA Senate In­mentioned. "Although these men All interested are encouraged to vestigative Committee. don't want to lead, they don't want contact Quadrini at 283-6718. (826 "It is unnecessary for the letters to be left behind, either." Grace l 
to exceed one or two sentences," Quadrini point out. "Simply state that you as a Notre Dame student feel that it is of utmost importance 


ND International students 
to present "Earth Week" 
that the investigation into the assassination of the late President ordinator of the activities, said Kennedy be reopened for further
by Jim Sullivan 

that the week has been designed to intensive investigation."
Starr Reporter 

"Heighten awareness and ap-Quadrini continued, "It is 
The International students of predation for the cultures of our critical that we write to these Notre Dame will be presenting cc,untries." political leaders. If a large volume "One Earth Week" during the Anyone having questions about of letters inundates the political third week of April. The schedule "One Earth Week" or interested in scene in Washington, it will have a will include films, speakers and-helping out with any aspect of the stimulating effect on some of the various displays dealing with life festivities should call Romero at new open-minded people in in Africa, India, the Orient and 6391. Washington who are willing to 
Latin America. .----------•••••--•.--••••-•-••••-•-•••••••--•-•••-••••.., 
The activities throughout the I week of April 13 to 19 will be 1 centered around the "One Earth 1 Marketplace", which will be selling handicrafts and other items 1 fromaround the globe in the In-1 ternational Students Lounge of the I La Fortune student center. I 
All money raised by the 1 marketplace will be given to the I World Hunger Coalition for relief I of the famine areas of Africa and Bangladesh. Anyone interested in I helping out with the marketplace I should call Carlos Araujo at 2177. 1 
Included in the marketplace will 1 
bedisplays of costumes, food and I other aspects of life abroad. Cultural films are currently being I lined-up for presentation during I the week. I 
Culminating "One Earth Week", · 1 the annual International Student Festival will be held on Saturday, 1 April 19, in Washington Hall. It 1 will feature several acts taken I fromthe literature of various 1 countries. The Festival is opened 1 to all Notre Dame andSt. Mary's I
-
students. 
Haul Romero, president and co-I I ~ British outlaw I 
~ I 
' l Shirley Temple I 
•l I LONDON (l1PI l--It's happened I 
~ 
to Linda Lovelace--but to Shirley I 
~ 
Temple? I 
t For reasons very different from I 
~ why Linda's mov;es have been I hannf'd in some p'aces, Britain's I t·ommPrcial teJ,•vision bosses
t I
announced Wt>dnrc;day they have 
1I

~ 
banned Shirley's 1930's movies ~ from the home screens here. ~ 
"\\'t· iust felt they were to 
~ 1
mawkish and sentimental to mterest today's children," a~ spokesman said. "It was felt that I Shirley Temple singing the 'Good
~ Ship Lollipop' or 'Animal Crackers J 
~ in My Soup' had no relevance 
I

today." 
I 

A commercial production Il ~ company had planned to screen a 1 
~ 
series of movies starring the 1 
dimpled, curlev-haired moppet I
t 
duringl·hildren's programs. But a 
~ .,.. commmee ot the Independent 1 ~ Broadcasting Authority, which by I law approves all commercial 11 
t television programs, stepped in ·I
and bann~d them. '1 
--------------~~~------------------, 
LITl LE MEXICO RESTAURANT 
TACOS HOME MADE CHill CONEY DOGS 


MEXICAN STYlE SPAGHETTI 
136 Dixie way North, Roseland CARRY-OUT 277·1030 
I 
1 I
1 
1
I 
I
1 1 
1
I 
I 
1 
1
1 





Newer Math. 
If you're a sophomore it's not too late to enroll in Army ROTC. Under the Two-Year Program you can attend a six-week Basic Camp next summer, take ROTC in your junior and senior years, and receive a commission along with your diploma In other words, complete a 
1 

four-year course in just two years! And if you're a veteran you don't I 
I 

even have to attend the six-week Basic Camp! I
I 

Army ROTC will also pay you $100 a month while you're to 1
1 

school (for you vets, that's in addition to your GI Bill) to spend as 1 you wish. I
I Army ROTC has a lot more to offer, too. For more information call I
1 

~ "Frankly, we don't think Shirley I or write: ARJ1Y ROTC @lflr ~ ~...,u.oTc I
l Temple would appeal to children of 1 .l'1U uv IW ·I I I... today," the spokesman said. "Her l1 UrJIVERSilY (f !'JOTRE D/V[ I films are more likely to appeal to II The more vou look at I 
the nostalgia of grandmothers." 1I rJOTRE DN'{, Hl 4G556 "' II The former child star is now II 283-6264/6265 it, the better it looks. 
Mrs. Shirley Temple Black, the 'I 1 
U.S. Ambassador to Ghana. She
t was not immediately available for /'I · I comment. L. J
-· 
, iT 


Thursday, March 6, 1975 the observer 
11 

Biggest mass slaying in U.S. history 
Final partner in murder spree sentenced 
HOlTSTON <UPJ)--A jury murder charges from the nation's two years on these trials," State Neither Brooks nor his family The elder Brooks and defens• Wednesday sentenced the final worst mass slayings this century. District Judge William Hatten said showed any emotion. Brooks and attorneys never contended Davk surviving partner of a three-year Elmer Wayne Henley, 18, was when the jury prepared to levy its defense attorney Jim Skelton then Brooks wasn't involved in thl torture and murder spree to life in convicted last year of six of the sentence. "The court is not going conferred while Hatten apologized murder spree. But they insistec prison for the strangulation of one slayings and sentenced to 594 years to allow any outburst by anybody. to jurors for their having been David was only an accessory tc of the 27 young victims. in prison. Dean A. Corll, accused If you feel you can't control sequestered for more than a week. Henley and Corll. Skelton claimec. 
yourself, leave now."

David Owen Brooks, quiet son of by Brooks and Henley of "I may have a chance on a new throughout the tria! th{ 
a paving contractor, received the mastermining the homosexual Hatten asked a bailiff to get the prosecution failed to prove Brook~
trial," said Alton Brooks, the
tortures, murders and burials, was verdict from jury foreman. Judy committed murder.
maximum sentence for his con­defendant's father. "We're not
shot and killed by Henley in Ligon, 22, a schoolteacher. "Stand "I think the trial ended Fridayviction in the 1973 death of Billy going to quit. My son said he never 
Ray Lawrence, 15, one of his August, 1973. up," Hatten told Brooks. morning when Hatten allowed the
committed murder. I believe my
Brooks rose slowly to his feet and state to refer to the oth~>r 26neighbors. The verdict of the eight women son.
faced the bench.

Brooks' father called the verdict slayings," Skelton said. s I
and four men was announced 62 
and sentence a farce and said the minutes after they began their "We the jury assign his punish­"No elected judge will ever give understand the law, a per, . is 
case would be resolved through ment as confinement in the Texas a fair trial. This judge didn't. It supposed to be tried on one charge
deliberations. 

appeals. Department of Corrections for was completely a farce." at a time." 
"There's been considerable life," a court clerk read in a full Brooks, 20, faces three other feeling expressed during the past voice. 
CLASSIFIED ADS
Kennedy era diary published 
McCormack and Hubert Hum-teacher. realized. 
Nl'w York lTPI-A former friend of John F. Kennedy says •Jackie Kennedy may have <\Ccc..npanied the President to Dallas on Nov. 22, 1963, because of "guilt feelings" about press criticism of her stay on Aristotle Onassis' yacht. Excerpts from the diary of Benjamin C. Bradlee appearing in the April edition of Good Housekeeping suggest that it was that remorse that led to Jackie's presence at her husband's side when he was assassinated. "The President notec that what he called 'Jackie's guilt' feelings' may work to his own advantage. 'Maybe you'll come with us to Texas now next month,' the President said with a smile. Jackie answered, 'Sure I will,Jack.' As a result Jackie was sitting alongside her husband when  phrey in this connection. And now their retreat in v:rginia. he was at it again. 'Where was old The diary ment:ons family spats Nels when you and I were dodging over finances,including an oc­bullets in the Solomon Islands'?' casion when the President Kennedy wondered aloud. How old questioned an item in Jackie's was he'? He must have been 31 or accounts listing "Department 32. Why don't you look into that'?'" Stores ... $40,000." The Journal article was ex­An entry for October 1963 in­tracted from a diary kept dicates that Jackie's early ad­describing meetings at the White miration for Aristotle Onassis also Hous.e and weekends with the was a cause of friction -par­Kennedys in Newport, R.I., or at ticularly as regardR the yacht trip. SLF lacks community (continued from page 8) After the reading, a short admirable lack of pretense. He reception was held in the dosed the first half of the program LaFortune Ballroom. The with the title poem from his book "Spring of the Thief", which reception was billed as an "Open concerns the concept of the cycle of House", and was well-attended by  WANTED Wanted: a ride to Massachusetts for Spring Break. Call Charlie at 8845 Ride needed from Iowa to N.D. and back. 3-13 · 3-17 Art 289-3638 Desperately need ride to DC area for Spring Break. Share expenses. Please call 4872 Riders wanted to Madison Wis, Leaving Thurs. nite Mar. 6 Joe 289-3923 Riders needed this weekend to Madison, Wisconsin. Call 8904 Student wanted to drive car back from NYC after Easter holidays 234-0405 Need ride to N.D. from Tampa Fla. area on Mar. 30 or 31. Will share expenses. Call Mark 1043 Need ride to Ft. Lauderdale Judy 6797 Spring Break  Take the Greyhound from Notre Dame to Chicago every Fri at 4:40. Two busses return on Sun. Call Tom 1807 GOOD TICKETS FOR THE FRANKIE VALLI & THE FOUR SEASONS CONCERT MARCH 8 AT MORRIS CIVIC ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE. ALL SEATS RESERVED. GOOD TICKETS FOR THE MARCH 12 JOE WALSH CON­. CERT AT THE A.C.C. ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE. FOR SALE 1 Miracord 750 with V-15 II, Pair southwest technical U. T. Power Amps 75 watts each (R.M.S) Call 277-0085 after 7 pm Flying Junior Sailboat for sale. 13'3" Good Condition. Notre Dame Sailing Club. 8312 or 1150  
he was fatally shot. Bradlee, executive editor of the Washington Post, also said he wasonce asked by Kennedy to inquire about the war record of Nelson Rockefeller when Rockefeller was running for re­election as governor of New York. "It is interesting how often Kennedy refers to the war records of political opponents," Bradlee writes, referring to a telephone conservation he had with JFK in April of 1962. "He had often mentioned Eddie McCormack -an old political foe and nephew of House Speaker John  sin and redemption as they relate to modern life. John Logan Jr. returned, after a short intermission, to perform four more songs, among which were two "settings" of his father's poetry. "Papa John" Logan concluded the program by reading from recent works. Highlights of this reading were two sections from "Poem in Progress", giving a taste of the poem which concerns the exploration of levels of cognition and juxtaposition of reality and illusion, and Logan's two most recent works, a poem for his brother and a prose poem for a  many students and faculty members. The first half of the Festival has passed, a compendium of readings, lectures, class meetings, receptions and parties. It has been marked, though, with a transient nature. The authors have come with their departure closely in sight, and that has kept them from becoming totally involved with th Festival as a community. Perhaps in the nexg few days, as Ferlenghetti, the Logans, Tillie Olson, and Michael Ryan come together, the sense of community that the Festival strives for will be  Need ride 3-7 to U of Illinois or Champaign area.'Marcee, 5763 Need ride to New Orleans at Spring Break..Call 4379 Roommate wanted, beautiful apartment $65 monthly. Call Fred 288-5646 Need ride to NYC area for Spring Break. Ca" Lou 8621 2 Cotton Bowl Victory Football Banners 18" by 36" will pay reasonable price. Jay Wright (219) 287-6084 Need ride to Miami for Spring Break. Call Cathy 4367  1 set of Weights. $16 or best offer. Call Dr. Maison between 7:00 and 9:00p.m. at 272-9895 Carpets. room size oval and runner, blue and green design. $35 for both call 277-1742 Raleigh three, speed woman's and man's bike each for sale 277-1742 Pioneer 1010 receiver. Dokorder 7500 reel-to-reel. Phone 1945. Inquire 203 Fisher. Senior Formal Tix. Complete Package call Pat 287-3592 6-string folk guitar. $65 2127 Apartments for summer sublease. Good condition, close to campus. 

-
Call 272-4156 or 277-0130 Need ride 3-13 to New England, 
back by 3-17. Jim 8927 For Rent: Furnished houses availavle now for summer and fall Two of us in desperate need of ride rental. Phone: 289-2602 or 234-9364 
to Phila,.Trenton area for Easter 
break. Call Mel 3457 LOST & FOUND




r-:;o-E-WAiS-H--1 
Found: watch at 0-C Party with 
initialing MJG 1971. Call Dave 289· NOTICES 8075 
Pipes, stones, roach clips, papers, Lost: Gold banded ring with yellow pipe cleaners and other smoking stone in (Galvin Life building 1st accessories on sale at Pandoras floor about 2 weeks ago. If found, 
I I 
ALBUMS NOW $4.99 AT I 
across from Roccos please call Tim, 3633: Reward
I 

I 
What good is sitting alone in your Lost 1 pocket calculator in black room? Gay Students of Notre case at St. Mary's. Please call 4444 
Dame. P.O. Box 1702, South Bend, ln. 46601 Lost Mon Texas Instrument 
calculator. Reward offered if Gay Students of Notre Dame In­found. Please call Chris 291-1741. formation 6343 Fri. & Sat 8-12 p.m. Desperately need for exams 
Dance-SMC Nursing Club. Lost: one gold antique SMC pinky Featuring Talismen. Open to all. ring; initials CRM, 76. Call 4295 .
YJ~R~j 
Friday nite 9-1 Regina Hall $1.00 Reward 
Sc. Fiction Fans: Evangeline Lost: 1 blue and gold BuffaloI Walton now in stock plus a new Sabres hat. If found, Please call Heinlein title too! Pandoras Books 1200. 602 N. St Louis at So Bend Ave
919-B. COLLEGE SQUARE I 
Lost brown purse at Peinke's To the owner of the PLYMOUTH party, Saturday. Reward, call
MISHAWAKA, INDIANA ·255-0266 I 
that slit the 2 front tires of the car Kathie 8901 
I 
in Kubiak's parking lot Fri. night: 
the bouncer got your 1 icense 

number and will give it to the PERSONALS
I police unless you call 1691 by Friday. We heard first floor Zahm was all 
I 
tied up.
~WIN THE NEW JOE WALSH 
SUMMER IN EUROPE UNI­White Ward 3 
TRAVEL CHARTERS AT LESS 

THAN 112 REG. ECONOMY Dear Greg,
I ALBUM "SO WHAT": Thursday · From WRBR (6:00 · midnight) I 
FARE. 65 DAY ADVANCE A short note to tell you that we 
PAYMENT REQUIRED. U.S. enjoyed reading your bulletin
Friday · at The Library (9:00 · midnight)
I I 
GOVT APPROVED. TWA-PAN boara and your..occasional visits to
Saturday · at Shula's (9:00 · midnight) 
AM-TRANSAVIA 707's. Call toll the office. 
free 1-800-325-4867 Sincerely,
I Sl{l~OiliS Sunday · From WRBR (9:00 · 3:00 a.m.) I 
The Observer Staff Over Seas Jobs . Australia,
I I 
Europe, s. America, Africa, To the Crew, Students all professions and oc­You might get shipwrecked
I I 
cupations $700-$3000 monthly. drinking Arnolds under the light of

SEE JOE WALSH IN 
Expenses paid, overtime, sight­"moon" but there will be no more seeing. Free information. Tran. :mutinies on boardmy ship. Also to sworld Research Co. Dept. F3, the pirates who inquired about the 
I 

P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, Ca. sailing lessons . I love you all 94925 Your Captain 
Buzz Western Electronic 24 hour TV P.S. Skunk-Thank you and 1 a c. 
CONCERT WITH I 

IJO JO GUNNE AT THEI' 
service. 1530 Western Ave. 282-1955 cept. Let's get skunked together. 
Need ride to Detroit area March 7 

Ahola & Peo:NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 1 
or 8. Please call Brenda 4260 

very good .. Senior Club looking for en-Both of you can write. However


NEXT WEDNESDAY I 
tertainers-. In-ter-ested ea11·C:nris·at • , • < ~;~qn_e of you beat me..~tudtev 
5 or · cla1ms that honor. No act1on, no
7 21 8423 talk please.

'" .. 'AT ·a·:-O(f P.M. I 
Junior Birdman
--·-·----------­


--~---­

Huskies ruin Irish playoff hopes


! ...
by Rob Kissel 
It certainly has been a long season, physically and mentally, for Notre Dame's hockt!y team. It all started back in early Sep­tember and ended last night in Houghton, Michigan. The Irish iCl'rs lost the second game of their semi-final playoff series 6-3, losing the total goal series .8-3. 
In what looked to be a possibility of an Irish comeback, turned into a tough defeat, from an area of the game Notre Dame had trouble ith all season -penalties. Lt>fty ~ .tth's young charges once again took just too many penalties, giving Tech J.lower play advantage right as the Irish were on the comeback drive. 
Behind by two goals at the start of the game, Alex Pirus narrowed the margin to one on another fine individual effort by this big for­ward fromOntario. 
' Center Dukie Walsh passed to Pirus at the blue line. Pirus skated around Tech defenseman Bruce Abbey and came in with a high backhander over the shoulder of Huskie goaltender Jim Warden at 
6:35. , 
Michigan Tech got that goal back, taking advantage of a two man power play advantage. Dave Bossy was whistled for. tripping 
<14: 15l and Mark Olive was cauJ{ht 

!<"or the· sixth straight year the Notre Dame wrestling team will be sending a representative to the NCAA championships. But for the first lime in that stretch the Irish grappler will not be in the heavyweight division. Instead 142­pound freshman Pat McKillen from Carmel High School in 
neying to the finals in Princeton, 
New Jersey on March 13-14-15. 
Irish heavyweights who have 
competed in the nationals were 

Phil Gustafson in 1970 and 1971, Mike Fanning in 1972 and 1974, and Jay Achterhoff in 1973 but this year heavyweight Ken Dike was injured at tourney time. 
McKillen will carry an 18-4-2 record into the finals. He earned his berth with a third place finish in the Eastern Independent ' Regionals at Penn State last week­end. McKillen won his first two matches 5-3 over Clyde Ruffin of Southern Illinois and 6-5 over Bruce Hadsell of Buffalo, before dropping a 4-() decision to top-seed and eventual champion Gene Costello of Slippery Rock. In the wrestlebacks McKillen edged rugged Tom Burke from 
holding at 15:33. 21 seconds later _
Huskie George Lyle scored on a , . ­

slapper over the shoulder of ND netminder Len Moher. 
Len Moher finally got some rest, after three harrowing periods in Tuesday's game, making only seven saves, while Warden had to do some work in making his 11 stops. 
Pirus put the Irish right back in the ball game on a powerolay goal <Young off for interference at 0:40). Jack Brownschidle split the defense with his trickery and centered to Pirus, who tipped in the pass at 1:41. 
With Dave Bossy off for high­sticking, Tech's George Lyle scored his second goal of the night (and eighth of the season against NDl on the man advantage at 7:56, increasing the Huskie lead back to two goals. 

Bob <the Roadrunner) D'Aivise notched Tech's third sue­cessivepower play goal at 16:37, this time with Terry Fairholm off for interference. Moher had 8 saves in the period, while Warden again faced more shots than his ND opponent, stopping 12 shots. 
Clark Hamilton tried his best to· get the Lefty Smithers into the thick of the action, scoring an impossible angle marker at just 31 
· seconds into the final period of play. The quick slapshot squirted 
*Observer _ 
Sports 
Bengals time again 
The 44th edition of the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts gets underway this Sunday, with a card of over 20 fights slated to begin at 2:00p.m. in the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Heturning champions Phil Harbert <Sycamore, Ill. l and Chet Zawalich <Hartford, Conn.) head a group of 70 boxers who began training on January 16 for this year's tournament. All fighters are under the tutelage of Domonic 
J. <Nappyl Napolitano, the only director the Bouts have had since their inception in 1931. 
"Sunday's card should be a good one for the spectators," Nappy observes. "Most of the ex­perienced fighters will draw byes to the semifinals, so the matchups among the younger kids will be pretty even, and we expect the eompetition to be really spirited." 
A trio of football players are t.noog those seeking the 190 pound ehampionship. Mike McGuire, a 1973 champion and runner-up last year, will contend with perennial challenger Rudy Ruettiger and newcomer Tom Bake for the crown. Senior Ron Buttarazzi is expected to make a strong showing as well. . 
Good seats are still available for 

, the bouts, which continue on Tuesday, March 11 and conclude with the championships on Thursday, March 13. Tickets may be purchased daily at Gate 10 of the ACC or at the gate one hour before the event. Ringside seats for each night are $2. General admission seats for the quar­terfinals and semi-finals are $1.00 and $1.50 for the finals. Children <under 16) may purchase general admission tickets for half price the day of the bouts only. 
ALEX PIRUS led the Irish in goals and punches in last night's 6-31oss to Michigan Tech. 
between Warden's pads and the post for the score. 
-stu Younger gave Tech another three goal lead in the series, scoring only 27 seconds after the Hamilton tally. Pete Roberts put in an insurance marker for his coach, John Macinnes , at 9:45, taking advantage of a high shot rebound which away from the from the grasp of Len Moher. 
The final goal of the season scored against the Irish came at 16:58, from the stick of winger Bill Steele . Len Moher had 8 saves in the period for a game total of 23 while Warden turned aside 6 in th~ period and 29 in the game. 
After six straight months of daily skating Lefty Smith's icers finally have a rest ahead. Notre Dame finished the season with a 10-21-3 WCHA record and a 13-22-3 overall season mark. With 15 starting freshman ~nd sophomores returning, the future looks better than the present. 


Counseling forum opens 
Legal counsellors for several of Sheldon Gallner, author of Pro the nation's top entertainers and Sports: The Contract Game will be athletes will participate in a forum a guest speaker at a 7 p.m. session planned by the Law School of the Thursday. Opening FridayUniversity of Notre Dame March meetings at 9:15a.m. will be Alan 
6-8. Topics for discussion include I. Rothenberg of Los Angeles with contracting, copyrights, collective a discussion of "Leasing of Sportsbargaining, estate and tax plan­Facilities, Television and Hadio 
ning, and other subjects. Contracting, and F.C.C. 
Speakers at sessions in the Problems." Center for Continuing Education James E. Finks, executive vice will concentrate on legal aspects president and general manager of involved in the formation of new the Chicago Bears, will tell of his 
leagues, shifting of franchises, role in representing the club in problems facing stars entertaining contract negotiations during a in different countries, copyrights · 10:15 ·a.m. session Friday.
and royalties, and many taxation Negotiation of "Player's Contracts 

interpretations in the multi-million from the Agent's Viewpoint" is the dollar fields of sports and en­topic of Martin E. Blackman, New tertainment. York, at 1:30 p.m. while Robert G. Opening the forum at 1:30 p.m. Woolf of Boston will discuss "Total 
Hepresentation and Services for the Athlete" at 2:15p.m. Dennis 
M. Mahoney, a Denver doctor­lawyer. will outline methods of representing the injured athlete at a :!:15 p.m. session Friday. 
Saturday morning sessions will include a discussion of "Taxation in Sports-The Athlete and the Tt•am'' by David T. Link, associate dean of the Notre Dame Law Sehool, at 9:15 and "Collective Bargaining in Professional Sports" by John Tompson, management counsel for the National Football League, at 10:15. 
Panel discussions follow this session and other during the three­day meeting. 
Students and faculty are ad­mitted to the sessions free. 

March 6 will be Charles A. Scott of Gang, Tyre and Brown. a Los 
FRI 7:15 9:30 SAT & SUN 2:15 4:30 7:15 9:30 MON· THURS 7:15 9:30 
Angeles. firm representing Bob Hope and other major en­
SEAN 
IN

tertainers. His topic will be "Legal 
1 
CONNERY

Aspects of Counselling En­tertainers." Herman Finkelstein. special counsel to the American Society of Composers and 
FRI.7:459:45 ~ 9:4~
SAT & SUN 1'MAcON
MON-THURS Produ.cers <ASCAP), will discuss copyr•ghts and royalties at a 2:30 
p.m. session. 
~ COUNTY UNE ~ '"' 
6.. 13()iler-ti()(Ke t=lix
McKillen to NCAA finals 
Tw1n Theatres/ lOOCenter/Mishawaka/255-9575 
place. Costello will be seeded, he pinned his oponent in the finals and he could only beat Pat 4-o. I really 
i··············~il::~i··············! 
Waukegan, Illinois wil be jour-,,.:.:.;.;;...:.:.:;~:.:.::.:~--T.....:;H~~u~...:;.:R::.!.,S __y

____ _______.. 
:ALL ALPINE DESIGN 
nationally-ranked Clarion 3-2 and Evan Hollopeter of Cleveland State :1-1 in overtime. The win over Hollopeter avenged a loss McKillen suffered earlier in the season. 
Coach Fred Pechek is optimis.tic concerning McKillen's chances in the nationals, "I think he can thmk he can finish in the top six wh1ch would be something only one Notre Dame wrestler • (heavyweight Dick Arrington third in 1965) has ever done." ' •

•
DA 
•

:ALL CAMP 7 SLEEPING BAGS
•

:ALL DOWN PARKAS • :GERRY "Traveler" PACK 
PITCHER BEER N 
•

: AND SERIES 71 FRAME
TONIGHT 
•

: (No layaways, returns, or exchanges : 
• on sales merchandise) • 
:SALE APPLIES TO SALE ENDS : 
: IN-STOCK MERCHANDISE MARCH 8, 1975 : 
"Jason Beckett" 
WHITE HOUSE JNN 






: Sierra Sports:.i
NO COVER

2839 N. 5th 

683-98.42 ~'2~3~3§8~3§§~~~~~2~1~61~M~IA~M~I· i
Just 8 mi. north of the state line. 

Take U.S. 31 north to Nile~. then north on highway 51 3 mi. • 83 "MIAMI AT EWING"•
...................................: 
•
•
•
20% off:
•
20% off:
•
20% off: 20% off:
•
:
• 






