----------------~~~ -~ ~~---------------· 
Ratio 28.3 to 1 
Business school crowded 
by Mary Pat Tarpey know whether they are workif\g Bella said. "We're in demand and Staff Reporter hard enough or fast enough." we're prospering so we have to Robert Williamson, accounting meet the demand." 
A student-faculty ratio of 28.3 to professor, agreed that a problem "We have to think of the future," one in the College of Business exists, but termed it understaffing he added. "If the demand con­Administration has supported instead of overcrowding. tinues increasing we will have to faculty claims that the college is "Overcrowded means you would expand." overcrowded and understaffed. like to get rid of some of the Herbert Sim, finance professor, 
Enrollment figures indicate a students and that's not my agreed on the basic points of fifty per cent increase in students opinion," Williamson said. "I overcrowding. "We have 1500 in the business college in the last think it's the other way around. undergraduates compared to five years without a similar in­We need more teachers." fewer than 100 undergraduates in crease in the faculty. Fifty-five The large classes, Williamson 1965. Our faculty just hasn't kept faculty members are now teaching said, make it somewhat easier for pace." the 1,497 students enrolled in the him because he lectures now in­"Our experience in the Notre eollege. stead of leading discussions. The Dame business college isn't 
None of the other colleges at the material he covers is the same, but (continued on page 2)University hve faculty-student the method of presenting it is ratios of more than ten to one. In different, he noted. the college of Arts and Letters, for "When I started teaching, there example, 213 faculty members are were twenty to twenty-five employed to instruct 1,984 students students in each class and my a ratio of 9.1 to one. In the colleges teaching style was different," of Science and Engineering, the Williamson explained. "It was ratios are 6.1 to one and 9.4 to one, essentially a seminar and there respectively. was much more discussion and 
John Houck, management interaction with the students. Now 
professor, said the increase in I just lecture and respond to student enrollment represents an questions without interacting with additional burden on a faculty that students." was fully-utilized five years ago. Professor Salvatore Bella said 
"There was nowhere near that the problem is less acute in the increase in the number of faculty," Manaement Department. "In Houck stated. "We're not holding Management, we've been able to our own. The quality of education add staff when the enrollment 
is going to suffer." increased," Bella explained. "We 
university of notre dome st. mary's college 
Houck cited the large cl~s sizes haven't added as many as we 
Vol. X, No. 56 Wednesday, November 19, 1975 
as detrimental to the quality of would have liked but we've been instruction the professor is able to able to avoid overcrowding." provide. He said most of the Bella also noted that there is no Blames Devine classes are in the thirty to fifty uniform, ideal class size. He sair. students per class range. There he feels comfortable in a class of are few, if any, small classes left in fifty students but other professors 
Team report deemed false 
the business college, he added. prefer classes closer to thirty-five 
"People are working to solve this or forty. by Bill Brink Bowl then invited Georgia, which Joyce emphasized that the problem," Houck said, "but I don't "But it's like a good business," Sports Editor accepted. University did not receive an in­"I'm absolutely positive, " said vitation before Saturday, as 
A report by Dave Israel, sports Devine, that if that vote was taken Krause was quoted as saying the writer for the Washington Star, today, that 99 percent of the The Observer and over AP that the Notre Dame players playerswouldwant to go. I talked to yesterday. rejected a bid for the Cotton Bowl them Monday night and cleared After the Pittsburgh game, because they "were fed up with things up, and I'm sure that Joyce claimed that neither he nor playing for Devine", was denied chan~ed a Jot of their minds." anyone else expected abid and yesterday by Head Coach Dan "There is no way this team voted considered the matter closed. Devine, several Irish players, and down the Cotton Bowl invitation Both the Cotton and Sugar Bowl Fr. Edmund Joyce, executive vice­because of any resentment of Committees informed him that president in charge of athletics. Coach Devine," said cornerback Notre Dame was not their first 
Israel stated in yesterday af­Luther Bradley. "The reason is choice and that it was highly ternoon's Star that the players, our disppointing loss to Pitt­problematical that the Irish would coming off a humiliating loss to sburgh." be invited by either. "I was not Pittsburgh, voted to spurn the bowl "I simply can't believe it," said surprised," said Joyce. offer because "they just don't want co-{!aptin Ed Bauer. "There's "Then Sunday afternoon," Joyce to play football for him any more." nothing to it at all." continued, "I received a call from 
"I deplore a statement such as the Cotton Bowl Committee saying this, which is completely untrue Bowl decision procedure we were still in the picture. They and ungrounded," said Joyce. did not offer us a bid, they were 
"How this erroneous story affects Joyce, ~peanwhile, explained the making preliminary inquiries to me personally is incidental," procedure by which the bowl whether they should eliminate us Devine remarked. "It does have a decisions were reached. from consideration. I was terribly great affect on my family, my staff "After the Michigan and USC surprised flabbergasted. I told and their families. It is most games, we though we wouldn't go them that I never conceived that assuredly affects our preparation to a bowl," he said. "But after we would be invited." for our last game. We're Navy and Georgia Tech, the whole The bowl representative told graduating 28 seniors, many of question opened up again. On Joyce that the picture was mud­whom have shown exceptional Wednesday, Nov. 12th, we had a died, and that he was not making loyalty to myself, our team and the regular meeting of the Faculty in an offer, but just wanted to feel University. My sincere desire is Control of Athletics." him out. Joyce told him that he that we devote ourselves to win­The Board decided, according to didn't think we should be con­
by Shawn Scannell Senate members, 76 per cent found ning the last game so that they can Joyce, to accept a bid from a sidered, and the only way would be Starr Reporter this not to be an adequate response go out on a winning note." major bowl, but not a minor bowl. if the team overwhelmingly voted 
The members of the Notre Dame to their needs. "You need to look no further Then they decided to determine to go. faculty are having a hard time "It's the faculty and not the than the Notre Dame victory whether or not the players sup-"They said they had to know by making financial ends meet, ac­Administration who have to live on March," he continued, "to get my ported it. 5:00, which gave me only an hour cording to Irwin Press, Chairman the money," Press said. "The true feelings on the subject; that is On Thursday night, at a team to consult the team. Fortunately of the Committee on Faculty Af­faculty members are concerned 'what thougb the odds be great or meeting, the players were asked to they were in a meeting, so we had fairs. The economic problems with ~ay to day survival, where the small, old Notre Dame will win sign a slip saying whether or not them vote to find out if there was stem from salaries that are not mooey is going to come from." over all'." they waqted to go. T~y also had support for it. There wasn't and 
The report of this November --------------------_..""--___.._ when Ed Bauer called me back and 
keeping up with the rate of in­

flation. stated a goal of the faculty as being told me so, I called the Cotton Bowl
'There is no way this team voted down

Press outlined the problem an attempt to "permanently close and told them to forget it." facing faculty members saying, the gap between ourselves and Joyce stressed that Notre Dame "The University has made at­those institutions with whom we the Cotton Bowl invitation because was not technically offered a bid. tempts to give increases in salary must compete for the very best "But if we had decided to accept, but they have been too small. We faculty and students." Press said, of any resentment of Coach Devine.' I'm not sure they would have taken 
will just keep falling farther "The faculty is the University's us." behind without more substancial major natural resource. We can't Devine stated that the·emotional increases." ignore their needs for better When contacted, Israel refused to indicate whether or not they letdown after Pittsburgh was 
On November 6, 1975, the salaries." to reveal his sources and said only were on the traveling squad or the probably the biggest factor in the Faculty Senate approved without Press noted that 75 per cent of "I stand by my story, it's true." prep team. team vote, and called Isreal's dissent a •tatement about the the faculty members indicated an It was reported that had Notre "I had to be fairly certain in my report inaccurate. salary situation that outlined the interest in information on Dame beat Pittsburgh, the Irish mind, that the team wanted to ''It's disturbing," said Devine, dificiency. "What the Faculty collective bargaining, which has would have been the first choice play," said Joyce. "Because the "that an excellent writer, such as Senate is trying to get across is been answered by a series of for the Cotton Bowl. , When the bid might come at 6 p.m. Saturday Well Twombley, can see fit to printthat we need a better than national speakers. "This interest indicates Irish lost to Pittsburgh, the Big and we had to be prepared with an erroneousstories, a·s Twombley did average increase because we are a discontentment with the lack of a Ten runner-up and the Big eight answer. Neither Coach Devine nor when he wrote about halftime in already behind. In.lbsolute terms, mechanism to get through to the runner-up became the primary Mr. Krause looked at the votes, the 1974 Notre Dame-USCgame.we'll stay hehind if we simply Administration. Just how deep contenders for the Cotton Bowl bid. they were brought in signed, People with the stature of match the average increase," this discontentment goes is not However, when theseteams were sealed by the captains to myself Twombley do not print erroneous Press added. known," Press noted. ruled out of consideration, Notre personally, I was the only one to stories unless they have· been fed to 
In October of 1974, the Faculty There are no current concrete Dame became the choice again. In see them. There was a substantial him.. In. that incident, some Senate asked for an increase of plans for improvement of the a meeting Sunday afternoon, the majority in favor of playing, and disgruntled player saw fit to put $1200 and were instead given in situation, but hopes are that the players voted that if the Cotton we were in a position to accept a his personal ambitions over the December a one-shot $600 cost of report will have some effect on Bowl still issued an invitation, they bid on Saturday if it were of­welfare of his feam and his living increase. Of the Faculty their future efforts. would_ turn it. down. The Cotton fered." school." 




the observer We~n~sclay, November 19, 1975 
SMC Dining Hall 

warld briefs 
WASHINGTON -President Ford has not changed his postiion on giving aid to New York City, but appears to be close to some kind of financial aid, Sen. Jacob K. Javits said after a meeting in the White House. 
Ford has opposed federal aid, but would approve restructuring federal bankruptcy laws to assist the city after a default on its obligations. 
MADRID -Plans for a state funeral were accelerated for Generalissimo Francisco Franco when he suffered massive new internal bleeding and heart flutters and sank into critical condition yesterday. A high government source said Franco also had suf­fered brain damage. 
NEW YORK -Cincinnati's second baseman Joe Morgan was named the National League's Most Valuable Player by the Bseball Writers Association of America, winning by the largest margin in history. 
CLEVELAND -Preliminary reports show the sunken ore carrier Edmund Fitzgerald suffered a broken security railing and was taking on water through open vents before it and its 29 crew members were lost according to the Coast Guard. 
an campus taday 
9am-4 pm interviews, university of miami law school (florida) 
12:15 pm 
3:15pm 
3:30pm 
4:30 pm 

sign-ups outside 101 o'shag Interviews at placement bureau, ad. building 
seminar, "dna repair In mammalian cells" by dr. bernard strauss, dept. of microbiology, unlv. of chicago room 278, galvin aud. 
public reception, reception for prof. rudolfe anaya, 
creative writing prof. at  unlv. of  new  mexico, and  
author  of  award-winning  "bless  me,  ultima"  In  
masterpiece room art gallery  

seminar, "survey of structured programming" by dr. william I. goodhue, today and monday In room 115 computing center 
dissertation workshop, "empirical study of the Impact of u.s. grain experts on the exchange rate and domestic prices,' by mrs. doris chong, graduate student room 110, law bldg 
7, 9, & 11 pm film, "lenny" In engineering auditorium 
7:30pm american scene series, "the offense of socrates" by prof. eva brann, ,st. lnlohn's college, ,annapolis, maryland carroll hall 
8 pm philosophy perspectives, "reasons and represen­tatives" by arthur dante In galvin aud. (also nov. 21) 
8:15pm concert, notre dame glee club, washington hall 
Holy Cross priest arrested! in Chile for 'conspiracy' 
by Cathy Cannon Staff Reporter 

Saga changes lor break 
by Deanne Dragoun Staff Reporter 
Thanksgiving Day break at SMC means a change in the dining hall procedures, a drastic reduction of students and a change in the Health Services starting on Wednesday, November 26. __ 
Charley Flain, Saga Food Ser­vices Director at Saint Mary's, stated that "All students agreed that all meals during Thanksgiving break will be on a 'pay as you go' system. However, there will probably be twenty percent reduction on the listed meal price." ·•·-~ .. 
Al~ residents that are staying this Thanksgiving break are urged by their respective halls to sign the 
Business' increase not unique to ND 
(Continued from page 1) 
unique," Sim said. "The same th­ing is happening in universities across the country. There is a shift of students from liberal arts to finance, accounting, and business "staying" list by November 21, and to indicate the days they ex­pect to eat at the dining hall. 
The SMC Health Services an­nounced they will close after their last clinic on Wednesday 26, which lasts from eight to nine in the morning. However, if any emergency cases should occur, Verna B. Wood, the R.N. in charge at the clinic, can be contacted. 
All residents staying on campus throughout the break are able to stay in their own room without any charge during Thanksgiving and Easter vacations. But, as stated in the Resident's Hall Agreement for Saint Mary's College students, "There will be a meal charge on a 'pay as you go' basis for all residents who remain on campus during the vacation period." 
The dining hall meal hours will also be changed, but the exact times are yet to be released. 

Charley Flain said they probably 
will be out by Monday, November 
24. 

The Health Services will reopen 
on Sunday, November 30, at seven 
p.m. and from then on they will continue with their usual hours. 
Clubs mustapply to run movies 
Any clubs or organizations in­
terested in sponsoring movies next 
semester must complete ap­
plication this week at the Notre 
Dame Student Union. 

Applications are available from 
the Student Union receptionist in 
Student Union offices in 
La_ Fortune. Deadline for ap­
plications is Friday Nov. 21. 
in general. The supply of PhDs is l-----=-~---'--'=--..~~.=...:..'--'--"'-'----'-'===:....:.~==-~::...:..::~:.__:___.__:___:_:~=-----'-----1 not adequate to take care of tht: ~~--:~~~ demand.'' . ~ Vince Raymond, assistant dean \\irAzm£~ -~ ­


•--N-~ _n -~---N( P_Go
of the college, chose not to com-7: 10 menton the overcrowding issue 9:10PM ~-~( because of what he called the 1-----------------------------1 
"ambiguity of the term." He said 

THE ULTIMATE EXPERIENCE
classes aren't physically over­crowded, for example, because there are enouuh chairs to ac-
D 
commodate each student. 
A number of factors, including ­the appetite of non-business students for business courses, could contribute to a future problem, Raymond admitted. He added, however, that the college has already taken steps to avoid a crisis. 
The administration allowed the business college to increase. jts faculty by three last year and would have permitted a fourth addition if a suitable candidate had beeu found, he said. 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session. e•cept during e•ams and vacation periods. The Observer •s published by the s~udents of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St Mary's College Subscriptions may be _purchased for 10 dollars per seJ;ester ( 18 dollars per year l from The Ob server, Box Q. Notre Dame, In 
diana. 46556. Second Class postage paid. Notre Dame. IN 46556 


1. 


Wednesday, November 19, 1975 the observer 

Seminars also discussed 
Mardi Gras board sketches 

by Martha Fanning Staff Reporter 
Peggy Foran, Chairman of the Mardi Gras Raffle Committee, explained this year's ticket procedure at the Hall Presidents' Council meeting last night. 
"Within the next two days, the raffle tickets will be given to the halls," Foran stated. "They should be distributed to the students before the Thanksgiving Break," she explained. 
"Last year was the first year we made a substantial amount of money on the raffle, about $8000," Foran Continued. "I think we did that because we used the quota system." 
Quota systt'm 
Under this system each hall is allocated enough raffle ticket books for each student. If the hall reaches its quota of selling 90 per cent of their books they will receive five dollars per book sold. The Mardi Gras committee will return two dollars it if the total amount sould is under the quota. 
"A hall that has 200 people has the possibility of making $1,000 for the hall. Th~ hall can do what they want to with the money," she commented. 
"The hall that reaches its quota first will receive $100. Any student that sells a book of tickets will have a chance on the color T.V. and receives a Mardi Gras button. The button enables them to gel into Mardi Gras free," Foran an­nounced. 
Another incentive for the halls is a award for the hall that makes the most sales money per student. This hall will receive $50 towards their Mardi Gras winnings. 
"Last year the hall that came in first won by less than $50 so this could be important," Foran ob­served. 
She stressed the importance of the Mardi Gras raffle chairman of Pach dorm keeping close track of the tickets. "Ten dollars should be 

Collective bargainingdiscussed 
-~~.'
r-• 
by Sne Carey Staff Reporter 
Rutgers University Professor George K. Horton maintained that collective bargaining is non­adversarial in the academic world in a speech sponsored by the Faculty Senate and the Association of American University Professors (AAUP> in the University Club last night. 
"In this case, labor and management are working for the same purpose. We are all in­terested in having an outstanding institution," affirmed Horton, a physics professor who was one of the principle organizers of collective bargaining at Rutgers. 
Collective bargaining became possible at Rutgers, which is a state university enrolling more than 40,000 students, under a New Jersey law passed in 1970. 
"Individual faculty members had come to feel more and more removed from decision-making processes," Horton asserted. The decisions often were not even made within the university because it is subject to the state Depart­ment of Higher Education, the Bureau of the Budget, and the governor's office," Horton ex­plained. 
"This remoteness from the 
shared governing process led to a 
feeling that collective bargaining 
was worth exploring," Horton 
affirmed. The Rutgers ad­
ministration supported this move 
in order to gain faculty backing for 
its struggle against state control. 
Horton noted that in the 1950's 
the AA UP had censured Rutgers 
for violations of academic freedom 
and tenure. In contrast, three 
years after collective bargaining 
was adopted, Rutgers was cited by turned in for each book," she noted. "It seems that last year there was some confusion on students keeping two dollars since that was the procedure in previous 

years."  
Harry  Spellman,  Mardi  Gras  
Chairman,  suggested  that  each  
hall  chairman  record  the  book  

numbers before distributing them to the residents. 
Booth assignments 
Spellman commented on the booth assignments for this year's Carnival. 
"I'm waiting for the architect to give me the floor specifications, " he explained. "Every hall will have a certain amount of space, approximately 200 feet," he noted. 
"I'll get in touch with the chairman of each hall as soon as possible and let them know the exact specifications," he added. 
Booth construction will begin on Jan. 23, about nine days prior to the start of Mardi Gras. Spellman suggested that if the halls have any tools of their own to bring them. There are some tools available from the committee during the construction period. 
Spellman concluded by suggesting that each hall chair­man aim for maximum dealer space when designing their booths. 
Calendar survey 
Mike Gassman, Academic Council Representative, appeared at the meeting with the Student Government's Calendar Survey forms for each hall. 
"The calendar is on the agenda of the Academic Council for the December 3rd meeting," Gassman stated. "Despite the impression you might get from the Observer, things are optimistic," he pointed out. 
Gassman requested each president have the form distributed and, if possible, tally the results in the hall. "We'd like to have it done by the end of this 
the same organization as out­standing in the area of academic freedom. 
Noting that grievance procedures are "at the heart" of collective bargaining, Horton stated that Rutgers now has specific procedures for handling grievances. "Complaints about a professor's academic life cAn be adjudicated in well-understood 
ALLEGRO SALE 

The WEDGE • Model GR596W-Solid-state Allegro Seriesill Amplifier with 12 watts min. RMS per chan­nel (into 8 ohms. 40Hz to 12kHz. with no more than 0.5% total harmonic distortion}. AM/FM/Stereo FM Tuner with flywheel tuning and Tuning Meter. Stereo Precision Record Changer with Micro-Touch Tone Arm. S-Track Tape Recorder/Player. Two On Two Matrix. Shown with Allegro 3000 Speakers. Simu­lated wood cabinet-grained Walnut finish. 
MANY OTHER MODELS ON SALE NOW 
tamiSIDE T.V. 

2316 MISHAWAKA AVE. 
( 1112 BLOCKS E. OF IRONWOOD DR.)
SOUTH BEND 255-1979 
OPEN DAILY 'TI.~ 8:00PM, SAT. 9-5 
. ,. .
~ 
preceedings," Horton affirmed, explaining that a faculty com­mittee makes recommendations that are submitted to the 
university president for a final
decision. "Obviously the system is open to abuse," Horton admitted. "There is a strong sentiment now to make the decision of a higher appeals 
(continued on page 7) 
week, so a handout can be prepared for the Academic Council members," he added. 
The survey consists of two parts; the first half contains four questions with yes or no answers. The second section includes six different calendar for the fall of 1976. Each respondent is in­structed to indicate their first, second and third preference based on their previous responses. 
Off-Campus students will be able to pick up a survey from outside the Student Activities office today and tomorrow. 
Insurance seminar 
Several announcements were make during the course of the 
meeting.  Elton  Johnson,  HPC  
Chairman,  informed  the  council  
how  the  Insurance  Seminar  

schedule is set up for this semester. "The schedule is set up for Sunday night seminars, with follow-up meetings on Monday if necessary," Johnson announced. 
The first three seminars will be: Nov. 23 in Breen-Phillips; Dec. 7 in Fisher, and Dec. 14 in Stanford. The starting time of each seminar is 6:30pm. 
Bob Quakenbush, Executive Coordinator, distributed guidelines the Hall Allocation Committee is using. The guidelines state the purpose of the allocations which is "to enable the halls to make purchases of items of virtually any nature which adds to the quality of life and reflects the needs of that hall." A list of criteria used by the committee for their decisions on allotments is also included, such as the durability of an item requested, anticipated usage to the hall community, and the size of the hall. The sum of the allotments of the three preceding years is also taken into account. 
The members of the council unaminously voted to combine the activities of halls for December and January in deciding what hall will receive the Rockne Trophy after the Christmas break. 

Peggy Foran (left), Mardi Gras Raffle Committee Chairperson, listens to Harry Spellman, Mardi Gras Chairman. Spellman ennounced that booth construction will begin on Jan. 23. (Photo by Paul Clevenger) 

Tom McMahon General Agent 

Manny Avila Agent 
.. 
\" f 

Karen Wentland Agent
-... ..
~ 
..., 
Diane Long Agent 

~;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:.
·1 
~ \~ ~~ 
~ Complete Guarantee· 
··::::::::::::::::::::::..::::::::~::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::"-:=:;:;:;:;:·:::;:;:;:;:;;;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;,:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:.:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:.;·:·:;:;:;~ 
1
NATIONAL BRAKE SERVICE INC~\\ 
Industrial & automotive drum and disc specialists ~~ 
» •
I ~23134 Lincolnway West 
. liiiii't::.:. ..
~§ Phone 232-8221 
L__:_:~x~,,J CALL NOW FOR FREE INSPECTION 
'lt•arafter H'ar. 
I semester~titer 
semester. till' 
Colle~eMaster 
from Fidl'lit\ 
linion Ijf(.• lias 
lll'en the most 
at·ceJlft'<l. most 
Jlopular plan on 
campust•s all 
OH'rAmerica. 
Find out why. 
Call tht• 
Fidelity llnion 
{'ollt.·~l-Masfl'r 
~·'icld Assodatt• 
m your area: 
1 005 E. LaSalle 
South Bend. Ind. 
Phone 287-2327 
.~~-· 
·~· 
Ji;~ 
( ( >llc~b·v1,l'-~ll'r
' 
INCLUDES: 
Premium Bendix brake­
linings ( 4 wheels), turn 
drums, rebuild wheel 
cylinders, arc lining lor 
. perfect drum contact, full \inspection. American cars only. 


the observer Wednesday, November 19, 1975
r 
,.~:···~·~·,
ND rejects Bowl & money .~\.· ·~ 
l MOVIE TICKETS r; l
by Patrick Cole which we cannot participate is the there is any correlation between 
Staff Reporter Rose Bowl. A given school can football and financial contributions receive over a million dollars from to the University," he stated. a Rose Bowl invitation." Frick said people contribute "to t STODENT UNION t 
New Years' Day will be different Will the University suffer from the University as an investment." for the Notre Dame Footballl team the absence of bowl game funds? He mentioned that football does 
+ TICKET OFFICE + 
in 1976--they will not play in a bowl Not at all according to June not dictate contributions. game. McCauslin, director'. of financial The University certainly would 
: SCOTTSDALE, STATE, & :
Also lacking will be the lucrative aid and scholarships. "We don't have benefited from a bowl game profits obtained by the school for depend on Cotton Bowl funds as in according to Father Edmund P. 6 TOWN & COUNTRY1 _a 
playing in a major bowl game. the first bowl game when we Joyce, executive vice-president of ~................~ 
Bowl games have become a major received all the profits," she the University. "But since we source of revenue for the stated. "This was not a respon­don't anticipate bowl funds unless University. sible way to aid the minorities." we get a bid, this revenue is not 

MAC'S RECORD RPCK
In 1969, the University broke a McCauslin mentioned that the figured into the school's income." 45-year ban on past-season football University has an endowment fund Excluding this year, Joyce said appearances. This was done with for minority students, according to Jhat alumni contributions reached $1 off crtf the understanding that net an October, 1972 Notre Dame their highest peak during 1966 and receipts would go to minority magazine, this endowment is $3 1973, years when Notre Dame was student aid. As a result, the 1970 million. "Since the funds are national champion in college AER<li1V111H Cotton Bowl-funded awards endowed, then we wouldn't have to football. "We haven't found any totaling $40,600. refuse to aid a student if we did not correlation between a successful 
During the past five years, the get a bowl game bid," McCaulsin football season and financial Al..BlM bowl game revenue has continued said. contributions," he continued. "If to provide funds for the University. James W. Frick, Vice President this trend does occur, it happened 
A full service record
According to Edward W. Krause, of Public Relations and by coincidence." director of athletics of the Development expressed similar Joyce revealed that when Joe 
store 

University, Notre Dame has beliefs on whether the absence of a Kuharich was head coach of Notre 
288 • 1178 
received approximately $375,000 bowl game would affect con­Dame and suffering from a losing 
Next to River Park Theate
from both the 1970 and 1971 Cotton tributions from friends and season, alumni contributions in­
Bowls, approximately $450,000 alumni. "It is misleading to think creased. from the 1973 Orange Bowl and the 1974 Sugar Bowl, and ap­proximately $550,000 from the 1975 Orange Bowl. 
If the Notre Dame football team had voted and was accepted for a Cotton Bowl bid, the University would have received an estimated $850,000 in revenue. 
"It was the highest paying bowl we could have gone, to," stated Krause. "The only one higher in 


---~ ----­

-----,.. 
• 
Wednesday, November 19, 1975 the observer 5 ~ 
st. mary's gymnists--getting going_ 

Girls form a rainbow in the middle of the matted floor in Coach Diorio's gym, The House of Gymnastics, in their multi­colored leotards. One after another they tumble down the mat with round-offs, front somersaults, walk-overs, aeirals and handsprings, as "GET IT UP!", "DON'T PUT THE HEAD BACK!", "WHERE ARE THE ARMS~" and other gentle reminders echo around the gym, from Coach Diorio. It is Friday evening, and on a night when most Saint Mary.s girls are partying, the St. Mary's gymnastics team will socialize with the balance beam, unevens, the vaulting horse and the floor mats until 1:30 in the morning. The close st the girls will come to "Kubiaks" or "Nickie's" will be the uneven parallel bars. Coach Ron Diorio turns up the stereo and the momentum picks up as the instrumental version of "Georgie Girl" makes roundoffs, and back somersaults become a performance. 
This is the first year for the St. Mary's Gymnastics Team. Coach Ron Diorio is optimistic about the team's future. "All of my team members are just beginners, so I don't expect to have a winning season this year, even though I would like to win. However, next year I see us as becoming Indiana State Champions." 
With this remark he points to a dark­haired girl on the unevens who is ·doing a "cast-wrap". "She's just a beginner, and that's not a beginning move by any means." Another tiny gymnast follows on the unevens, completing the same routine. Ron grins from ear to ear. "See what I mean?" 
Gymnastics has changed drastically within the past fifteen years due to the coaching and the apparatus. "They had to make a change, Diorio says, "because gymnastics was becoming extinct. Ron is happy with the changes. Gymnastics has doubled since the Olympics. 
Funds for the team trips are paid for by St. Mary's. "Why enter a sport if you have to pay to travel, that's the least reward you can get out of all your hard work," Ron emphasizes. "All the girls should have the opportunity to participate in gymnastics. With all of the facilities and faculty Notre Dame has, I feel that Notre Dame girls should be offered a program at their school too." 
He walks over to the balance beam to console a team , member whose fall has taken her from the beam to the floor. "GET UP AND DO IT AGAIN." 
"I consider myself a demanding coach. l<'or the first meet I don't expect miracles but after that I do." The demanding coach stops by the vaulting horse and yells, "VAULT, EVERYBODY." 
Coach Diorio didn't pick his team by ability, but rather by attitude. Try-outs continue even after a person makes the squad. "I started out with 18 girls, after the first cut. Now I'm down to eight. Within the next two weeks I'm cutting it down to five. Even the majority of the girls I have now don't want to work. They don't want to put in the time. So, as of next week I'm cutting out Friday night practice. They would rather party and date." 
He sets down his Pepsi and teases a cute blond gymnast. "Who are you going out with this weekend? Your hands are going to all ripped up from the unevens, aren't they?" "Oh, Ron," she says. "Well, we'll just have to work on vaulting, won't we? Get going." 
A look at all the pretty girls in one gym in leotards would make any guy jealous of Coach Diorio. "I do feel that girl gymnasts are very, very a tractive. But really, that has nothing to do with the sport. They have to work harder than football players. All of my girls are on diets, with the ex­ception of one." 
"Many people have wrong ideas about gymnastics. For example, they think that Notre Dame cheerleaders are gymnasts. Nothing could be farther from the truth. They would have a better squad if they had professional people to pick the kids on ability. Right now its a political system because the old cheerleaders help in the selection. They need routines and a coach like U.S.C. has. Then you would see good dancing and gymnastics on the field." 
"My tryouts are disrupted because I have girls pretending to be interested in gymnastics when all they want is to go out for cheerleaders. I will not put up with th­
*s." 
Plans for the Gymnastics'· Program include new apparatus and floor mats once the new recreation center is built. 
~ntually the college plans to have 
:"' ~~'.' ~~ ~~ 1t {1.· 
, F. 
1
~ ' . I 

trampolining too. Ron has received many, many letters from high school seniors who want to come to St. Mary's to be on his team· 
Trying to define Diorio's coaching technique is difficult. One minute he is hugging a gymnast, and the next minute he's yelling at her. 
"One time I fell off the unevens doing a difficult stunt. He came over, hugged me, dried my tears and said. 'GET UP_A_N_D 
coach diorio--from the olympics to smc 
He flies through the air with the greatest of ease; he's the daring young man on the gymnastics scene. Ron Diorio, Gym­nastics Coach for St. Mary's College dares to expect perfection, hard work and dedication. He dares to give more than one hundred per cent of his time and energy . He also dares to care. Mr. Diorio is . therefore one of the exceptions in a sport where many coaches don't direct their students, work minimum hours and look upon their gymnasts as products, not individuals. Of course there are poor coaches in every sport, but without a good coach in gymnastics, a person may be subject to injuries everytime she prac­tices. In sixteen years of coaching the only injuries Ron's students have suffered are two sprained ankles. 
As he walks across the gym, one might get the impression that he's a champion, even before they notice the red U.S.A. letters across the back of his warm up jacket, one of the ones he wore in the Olympic Games. His build is like that of a 6'2" football player and yet he is only 5'3" tall. "I was the only man in the army ever to have had a personalized wardrobe. They had to custon fit all of my unifroms; I was built like I am now but I was only five feet tall then." 
Coaching St. Mary's College team is only one of Ron's responsibilities. He is also the gymnastics instructor for the physical education department, holding classes on Tuesdays and Thursdays. However, he has another main interest, the House of Gymnastics which requires him to live and breath gymnasitcs seven days a week. "Ron and his wife Sherry own and operate the business which opened in June of 1974. Sitting on a crash mat, Ron surveys the soft-padded floor which covers his entire gym. "I wanted to start gymnastics in this area and to produce a good competitive team from this area. Indiana has been lacking in gymnastic for years. There's a lot of talent in Indiana that hasn't been brought out yet." 
A glance around the "House of Gym­
nastics would convince anyone that Ron is bringing out the talent."~ All about him bodies are in motion on the apparatus which he made himself. "They said it couldn't be done," he reflects, "but I wasn't staisfied with the equipment made by the Gymnastics Equipment Companies, I wanted better quality and I had my own ideas. "And I'm also a machinist." "We are now the only self-furnished gym in the country," he says proudly adjusting the uneven paralled bars for a tiny six year old in a pink leotard. Mr. Diorio is now bombarded with requests· to furnish entire gyms around the con try. The sight of Ron's four and five year old girls doing forward rolls by themsleves on a little 
DO IT AGAIN, RIGHT NOW"', one team
member explained. Her teammate added, 
"There was the time when I was in tears because I was so tired from doing back somersaaults, but for some strange reason, even when he yells at you, you know he cares about you." 
Ron returns from the gym floor and sits behind his desk. "Even though there's lots of room for improvement, I'm still proud of my kids. I've got two who are really progressing. Jasmine, and Donna, come over here." They jump down from the unevens and report to the coac)'t. He runs them through a floor routine which makes the eyes blink. The girls look as though they've been in gymnastics for several years. "They're just beginners," Ron says, smiling. "A lot of people are dreamers, they want to be great without the work Jasmine Malvezzi and Donna Sisson work out six to seven nights a week. Sometimes they workout from 
4:30 in the afternoon until 1:30 at night. That's dedication. We expect to have a dynamite team next year. I want all of my team to compete alll-around, eventually. This season, Marty O'Ryan will compete beam and floor and Jasmine Malvezzi and Donna Sisson will be going all around. I'm not sure about the rest of the line-up yet." 
"My team is supposed to run two miles a d_a..:.y_a_n_d_l_if_t_w_e...::ig:_h_ts_o_n_th_e_U_n_i_v_er_s_a_l_G.:_y_m_._ 
padded beam Ron created is enough to make other coaches flip with envy. 
Walking away from the unevens, Ron excuses himself for a moment to help a dark-haired 15 year old girl with a back handspring. The girl, who was in the class being taught by Ron's assistant coach, was shy and slower than the others."You'renot scared of me, are you~" he teases and grins. "Now throw the arms back." Handspring after handspring within ten minutes there is a noticed improvement ­and not just in the girl's handsprings. She runs back to class and coach Diorio takes ten year old Joey on the high bar. 
Chalk caked into their palms, two St. Mary's team members rest for a second on the crash mat and comment on the nights' schedule. "My hands are ripping again" she winces. Her teammate wipes her\hands on a leotard that was once black, but now 
Ron Diorio 
is white from all the chalk dust. "We've 
been dyed white working unevens. See 
that little boy Ron is wqrking with? He's 
only been on Ron's team for six months. 
He competed in his first meet after only 
two month of proctice. The coach Joey had 
before Ron told his parents, "Joey would 
never by any good." Well, remem~' that 
meet I mentioned, Joey won! He's Junior 
Olympics champion, Indiana state 
champion and 3rd place champion in four 
states. He's only ten years old! See what 
kind of coach Ron is?" 
Coach Diorio was in the Olympics in 
Tokyo in 1964. He was 2nd place in tum-. 
bling in the United States for two straight 
years. In 1967 Ron was fourth place 
champion in the world in trampoling. 
Yet, as one beginning St. Mary's 
gymnast explained so well, "he doesn't 
have the stuck-up attitude /many olym­
pians, who coach have. Most of the 
coaches only want superstars. With Ron, 
all you need , is a good attitude. And he 
spends time with the slower kids. He's great! I couldn't do a cartwheel when I started, now I'm doing roundoffs, back 

m1chelle van huffel 
One of my girls lifts 180 and she's only 95
lbs. and 5'2". Most guys I know would have a hard time keeping up with their schedule." 
It's 1:30 now and Ron ~thers the girls together to dismiss practice. "See you Sunday at 1:00, you'll be finished at 7:00, maybe. Flattery will get you everywhere with women. They respond to kindness. I tink women's sports are just fantastic. As far as gymnastics goes, anyone can do this sport, but you have to be determined. Any girls who are interested in trying out for my team can contact me. But I expect total dedication and a good attitude. I've had lots of girls who had been on teams since they were eleven years old. Many of them were champions in their state, or at their own clubs, but they didn't even have a good backhandspring or a back somersault. My beginners are doing these things. So, most of these kids quit, they couldn't stand competition from beginners and then they had bad attitudes. I have also let girls tryout who have no ex­perience whatsoever. They made the team because of attitude and potential." 
He grabs two of the girls who are walking out the door and says, "I' WANT YOU TO COME IN TOMORROW." Gymnastics in the afternoon, studying at night, and the uneven bars will be the scene of their only date for the weekend. 
___::_T:.:.ha=-t=-='s dedication. 

jasmine malvezzi 
somersaults. Only a coach like Ron could have produced a team three months after he opened his gym." 
Coach Diorio gives Joey a break and returns to the crash mat, telling the college team to "get back to work.""I leave my place open to them everyday.'' "The most improtant ingredient for a good gymnast is deter­mination. I expect a lot anytime I coach." The House of Gymnastic team has never lost a meet. "My girls are Illonois State champions. I've been coaching since I was fifteen. ' From 1961 
to 1968 I coached with Bob Salinger at Trampliine Town U.S.A." Ron pauses to open a pepsi and to survey his team. "I 
coached gymnastics and Bob coached trampoline. This was the largest women's organization in the country, 740 women. In trampolining Bob's kids took 1 through 8th place in the world. In gymnastics, I had five Olympions.Beverly Shuga, Janet VanHesse, Linda Metheney, Benita Nickels and Lynette Gray." Ron himself, never had a real coach. He was his own teacher, vaulting over hoods of cars, throwing double somersaults off huge sand piles, and working out on floors where there were no mats. His interests, sparked by Burt Lancaster's gymnastics in movies began at age five.! "I had one teacher in the beginning who said I would never by any good. I was determined to prove that I could succeed in the ,sport; she was the last coach I had." "I broke my back in 1967 doing a quadruple back somersault. The doctors said I would never be able to do this stuff again." With that remark, Coach Diorio smiles and easily throws two layout back somersaults and lines his team up for the close to practice. 
Ron spots his kids constantly and is an 
expert. "Let's get going," he yells, and a a 
tall guy throws two back handsprings. 
Cameras could click at the sight of this 
5'3" man spotting this 6'3" giant. Ron 
never misses, and the kids repeat this 
routine, faster, and faster keeping time to 
the music playing over th speaker 
systems. A change of pace, and Joey 
throws a double back somersault. Tiny 
Lisa and Lori, only four and five years old do roundoffs and a back somersault. 'The Illonois state champion girls follow Lisa and Lori. 
"Now, we're going to do fronts." Ron 
runs and spins high, high into l6e air 
makiQg a front somersault look as easy as 
walking down the street. Grinning as he 
steps off the mat, he says, "I want it as 
high as mine.'! And then the line of pink, 
blue, green and yellow leotards raise their 
heads and 24 pairs of eyes wonder how 
the can fl up to the ceiling. 



----------~------------­
Wednesday, November 19, 1975
6 the observer 

Irish program picks up interest 
by Don Reimer "We need to have someone go programs, according to Golden, Senior Staff Reporter through the library and see what's and a student exchange program there." would help foster a relationship
A reoent surge of student in­Vasta stated that we have "good between Notre Dame and theseterest in Irish literature courses library holdings" but he too felt universities.

has sparked discussion throughout that these needed to be catalogued Golden also suggested thethe English Department about the before they could be used. He also possibility of joint degreepossible establishment of an Irish felt the present collections should programs with Irish universities orStudies Program. 

be built up. a sophomore year abroad program According to Sean Golden, an in Ireland. He emphasized that all instructor of English and the main Program Directions of these suggestions were onlypreponent of the plan, the program ideas and none of them had been
l 
might eventually include such Golden felt there were many even proposed outside of thefeatuures as a year's study abroad different directions which an Irish department.
in Ireland and Irish study courses 

Studies ProgramI might take on On the level of graduate
I 
in a variety of \disciplines. 
both the graduate and un­research Golden suggested theGolden emphasized that at the dergraduate levels. establishment of some type ofpresent time these proposals ate Besides the immediate steps center for Irish studies similar tostill only speculation. "I have to 
which could be taken in the college the Civil Rights Center and
stress that this is speculation,... 

of Arts and Letters, such as Irish Mediegval Institute already onGolden said. "These proposals are Language courses, Golden campus.
only being talked about. Nothing suggested that some sort of faculty "This wouldn't give degrees,"concrete is being done, except to and student exchange program said Golden, "but would be some implemet:~.t more courses." 

might be developed. kind of a central facility to sponsor
Despite the fact that no plans "Faculty exchanges would be research." He viewed the institute have as of yet been finalized, one way of getting an influx of Irish as providing an "umbrella Golden noted student interest in scholars into this department and organization" to cover all of the Irish related courses is definitely also ,of giving people in this various areas of research in Irish increasing. "All the people that department a chance to learn first studies. I've talked to seem to agree that hand what it's like in Ireland," One of Golden's ideas was that there is a demonstrable student Golden explained. N.D. sponsor some sort of an an­
interest-they're signing up for the :several universities in Ireland nual conference in Irish studies to course (Golden's course in Irish have excellent academic (continued on page 7) 

Literature>," he pointed out. 
Professor Edward Vasta, chairman of the English Depart­ment also noted the tremendous student interest in the Irish literature courses. 
"I've noticed very much interest in the Irist literature courses," said Vasta, "and I'd like to see an Irish studies program very much." 
Slow Development Process 
Both Vasta and Golden agree that the development of an Irish Studies Program must be a step by step process. 
"All this will take a very long time to implement," said Golden, "and we have to move slowly and do what we can semester by semester in this direction." Also, 
he University would have to 
:ecide whether it wants to do this 
ind of thing." Vasta felt that Irish lated courses should first be 
stablished in other areas,such as ,istory and language, before the -rogram is formally set up. He 1ggested that the program might e organized, first as a con­entration or as a collegiate ~quence, and eventually in a 'ructure similar to the present 
merican Studies Program. "Once we get different courses 
oing, then we can go to one of the ore organized plans," he ggested. Prof. Donald Sniegowski, 
!1.·ector of undergraduate studies ,n English felt that there were many specifics concerning the proposed program which still remain to be worked out. 
Sniegowski cited the problem which might arise from a large number of English majors spending a year abroad, as an example of an unresolved difficulty . He stated that he would not like to see a large number of junior English majors going overseas because it would interfere too much with their regualr English major program. 
"I would be in favor of some greater amount of attention being given the proposal," Sniegowski commented. One important element in the establishment of any new program Is the quality and availability of library facilities. according to Sniegowski . 
The Memorial Library holds two collections of books dealing with Ireland; a collection called the Ilibernian collection and another donated by Francis O'Niell. The O'Niel collection is noted as one of the best collections of Irish music m the world. 
The Hibernian collection, Golden 
• explained, is not together but scattered throughout the Library m various places. However, he felt :hat "we have the books here" to sustain Irish research. 
"No one knows what we have and what we don't have," Sniegowski commented, referring to the unorganized collections. 


ROCK JAZZ CLASSICAl: BLUES-FOLK LABELS 
Grateful Dead Y usef L.ateef Maurice Abravanel, Utah Brownie McGhee Sine Qua Non 
Curtis Mayfield Jimmy Witherspoon Symphony Lightnin' Hopkins Westminster Gold Bette Midler Dave Brubeck William Steinberg, Pittsburgh Doc Watson RCA Eric Clapton Ramsey Lewis 
Symphony Buffy Sainte Marie Vanguard

J. Geils Band Miles Davis Maurice Andre Otis Spann Columbia 
ShaNaNa Duke Ellington Alfred Brendel Jimmy Rushing Elektra Three Dog Night John Coltrane Andres Segovia Joan Baez PhilipsCrosby, Stills, Nash & Young Cannonball Adderley London Symphony Orchestra 
John Lee Hooker Turnabout Sylvia Marlowe Atlantic and many others 

BEST OF STRAUSS VIRGIL FOX: BEETHOVEN: 
HANDEL: BRAHMS: 

-Beloved Waltzes. IN CONCERT NINE SYMPHONIES -Complete MESSIAH -Complete COMPLETE SYMPHONIES Polkas and The organist of the William Steinberg Sir Adrian Boult and Featuring Sir Adrian Overtures­70's performs Bach conducts Pittsburgh the London Boult, the London Eduard Strauss and 
Philh~monic Philharmonic; his orchestra $6.98 $6.98 Choir and Leopold Stokowski, 
Symphony $14.98 
Three record aet Seven record set Orchestra $6.98 Houston Symphony, ThrN record set William Steinberg, Three record set Pittsburgh

~-1liE BEST OF ' J o.Hl~J'1J'1 :;·nt,c~ iJ 

Symphony $8.98
JULIAN BREAM: I ..-,-~._ THE CLASSICAL GUITAR Four record set
..0.... I ..._..Dmtlnl =:'w.. =::.c~~m 
Works of Bach, De Falla, Villa THE BAROQUE TRUMPET Lobes, Sor. Turina, AND HORN AT Torroba-Julian THEIR FINEST 

i 
Bream, guitar $6.98 
Maurice Andre. AdoW Scherbaum 
Three record set 
$9.98 
Five record set

lj Eduud "'•-ond Hd Symphoruo O"h""'­
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Wednesday, November 19, 1975 the observer 

Economy important in collective bargaining 
(continued from page 3) 
committee binding instead of an administrative decision." Horton noted, however, that the number of grievances is small in proportion to the size of the faculty at Hutgers. 
Horton declared that economic concerns are also an important issue of collective bargaining. In the five years since collective bargaining began at Rutgers, faculty salaries have risen 28 per cent. "We regard a competitive salary scale as essential to academic excellence," Horton asserted. He cited a competition with nearby Princeton University as one reason for raising salaries. 
(continued from page 6) 
gather people together to talk about Irish literature or Irish­American cultural relations. 
Golden felt such a conference would "help make Notre Dame the research center in this country for projects relating to Irish and American concerns." 
Other possible directions which 
Pollution & lungs topic of lecture 
Air pollution as a cause of lung disease will be the subject of a lecture-meeting at Notre Dame Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in Room 278 Galvin Life Science Hall. 
Dr. Kenneth Brehob, assistant professor of earth sciences, will speak on the causes, effects and control of air pollution, and James 
E. Pender will document the link 
between  air  pollution  and  lung  
ailments.  Pender,  who is  
managing  director  of  the  

American Lung Association of North Central Indiana, will also discuss plans for the establishment of a student ALA branch affiliate on the campus.
:----sM"C---,
' SUMMER . PROGRAM t 
t LONDONm-ROME f A college credits avail. for further ' dr. a. r. black 4-4948 
t 
• info HOME: 272-7326 
~._..~--~~~~~ 
WANTED 
NE'E'd ridE' to Youngstown, Ohio or vicinity Thanksgiving holiday. Jim 8941. 
NE'E'd ridE' to Youngstown-Pitt arE'a Mon. Nov. 24. SharE' driving and E'XpE'nSE'S. Jack 3597. 
NE'E'd ridE' to DC or Delaware area Friday, Nov. 21. Call Tom 1380. 
Flyt"rs Fans, nE'E'd ride to Phllly either Fri. night Nov. 21 or Sat. morning Nov. 22. Call 1474. 
WantE'd: 2 reservations can­CE'Iatlon for United flights 11-26, 
12:55 or 4:30 Phlla via Cleveland. Call 1103. 
GJrl needed for role In Independent student production of Nell Simon's "Star-Spangled Girl". For more Information, call Jeff 1852 or Lou 2187. 
NE'ed ride to Syracuse, NY area F•lday Nov. 21. Call 6804. 
NeMrlde to N.Y. {Long Island) or vicinity, share driving and ex. ~se&. Can leave 11-25. Call Bill
..,, 
T,.o female housemates wanted to 
shfre 3-bedroom house lmmecllat. 
p&Y and · or next semester. 2112 
""'"-' from Angela & NO Int. 
enectton. Call 289-4303 between 5 ..na 10 PM. 

Today the pay for a full professor is $2,000 higher at Rutgers than at Princeton. 
Among the other achievements Horton attributed to collective bargaining was the retention by library personnel of full faculty status. "There was a movement by the state to incorporate the librarians into civil service and remove their faculty privileges," Hrton explained. "Since collective bargaining provides by law that the existing state of affairs cannot be changed without mutual con­sent, the faculty rejected the move, and the librarians are still considered full professors." 
Horton observed that collective 

Irish Studies lind ho1ne at ND ? 
the pr~gram could take according to Golden include the establish­ment of an endowed chair for Irish Studies and the production of a series of films about Ireland. 
"I can't think of a more proper place for an Irish studies program than Notre Dame," said Golden. 
"If any one school in the country should be the center for Irish Studies it should be Notre Dame," Golden felt. "Everywhere you go Notre Dame is identified as an Irish University. Notre Dame above all other universities is noted for its Irish connections and that's one of the reasons why it should be a research center." 
Sniegowski agreed with Golden bargaining at Rutgers has led to better working conditions and higher pay for teaching and research assistants. There was also an agreement to form com­mittees to investigate the status of women in the University which led to $400,000 in salary increments for 400 women faculty members. Horton noted further that negotiations between ad­ministration and faculty permitted the continuance of sabbatical leaves, which had been cancelled in budget cuts by the state. 
Commenting that collective bargaining involves only a small number of issues, Horton ex­plained that there has been little change in faculty organizations and procedures. "Collective bargaining is simply one ad­ditional route by which a certain limited set of problems is being solved," Horton asserted. "My impression is that it has been a useful way of achieving the aims 



FOR SALE 
Guitar for sale. Excellent con. dillon · moving, must sell. $200 or bE's! offer. Call Peg 287-8733. 
JewE'Iry 33 percent off turquoise, coral. sterling, diamonds, engagement sets. 234-7063. 
FOR RENT 
Rent mv upstairs. Near $50 mo. 233-1329. Keep trying. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: 1 silver ring shaped like a love knot. Reward. Kelly 6416. 
Lost: Navy blue Sky jacket. Possibly contains SMC school ring. Really need coat for winter. Call Cathy 4958. 
Lost:  a  sliver  watch  .  Timex,  
eledrlc, day.date,  black  band.  
,Aeward.. Tim 8164.  

Found: gloves · Identify them when and where. tal·l Mike 1624. 
Lost: Ladles gold watch between BP and Huddle. Reward 1287. 
Lost: 28 white sheep and 1.C black sheep. Please return If found. Signed, Little Bo Peep . 
CLASSIFIED ADS 

I need a ride to the Cincinnati. Dayton areaTues., thE' 25th. Call Ann 8803. 
Babysitter . housekeeper wanted. 8-5 Mon.-Fri. Transporting children to school req. May bring own child. Call 289-8933 after 5. 
NE'ed riders to Mpls. or Minnesota for Thanksgiving break. Leaving Fri. Nov. 21st. Call "Bern" 289­9174. 
NOTICES 

Student Govt. T-Shirt Agency -lor top quality plus low tirices on T­shirts. Ideal lor clubs of dor­mitories. Phone Dave Bossy 233­3647. 
NE'ed a tune up? You buy the parts I will install plugs, points, con­~ehser, and ad lOst your timing for $8. Very experienced. Call Bob 8610. 
Morrissey Loan Funtl $20-$150, 1 day waiting period, 1 percent In­terest. Due In 30 days. Lafortune basement M-F 11:15-12:1$. 
BOOK SHOP · 30,000 books and prints. Ralph A. Casperson Books. 
1303 Niles-Buchanan Road, Niles. Hours Wed., Sat., Sun. 9 to 7 or chance. 
Accurate, fast typing. Call Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. 
Used books and paperbacks. large stock of general reading material and o.p. books. Bring this ad and rE'ceive one freE' paperback with any $1.00 purchase. The Booksf. ack 112 W. Lexington Elkhart, Ind. 46514. 
Will do typing, experienced. Term papers, manuscripts, etc. Call 233· 8512. 
Will do typing in my home. Call {616) 699-5704. Ask for Deb. 
A course of action ... Air Force ROTC. If you've got two academic yE'ars rt"malnlng in school (graduate or undergraduate) look 
into our AFROTC programs. It's 11ne way of planning for a good lUI· ure. Get all the details today. Contact Capt. M. L. Stockdale 283· 6635. 
Interested in Photography?? The NO Photo Club will have Its third meeting Tuesday night at 7:15 In room 205 O'Shag. II you are In· terested, you are welcome to at. tend. 
Books make great gifts. New books and box sets Ideal for everyone. At Pandora's Books 937 c:,B. _Ave, 

and principles of the AAUP." 
Horton stressed that the potential for collective bargaining at any university depends largely on the contentment of the faculty and the competence of the ad­
ministration. 

Slick, The love of my life Is a squirrel In a raccoon coat{unbuddoned). Stump 
PIE'ase help us eat our turkE'y on Thanksgiving. For more fn. formation, call the Corby gang, Tom, Bill or Steve at 288-0088. 
Day pen, l,m sorry Wellsboro Isn't In New 
Hamp. Besides, I like Pa. better anyway. Tommy.boy 
Jim S., I'm dying to see you. Come ~o~lslt 
soon. Karen Q. 
<:l~ifi~ 
Get Resui1S •I 


I_ 8 the observer weanesaay, NOvember 19, 1975 Irish ca ers look better with age 
.,. 

on, at Kansas, Indiana, Kentucky, Adrian Dantley,last year's leading scorer, returns to lead the Irish in another campaign . 
The Irish will get their first test and UCLA. Of course South "Each team each year has its in his senior year at Berkely High New York, returns as the Irish' tomorrow night when they play an Carolina will be tough and I've own identity," explains Phelps. School in Michigan while Laim­premier ballhandler. Martin was exhibition game with the touring never won at Dayton. Plus "You have to establish that beer averaged 25 points and 16 second in assists for the Irish last Russian National Team at Madison
we have UCLA, Maryland, identity and it takes time to rebounds in leading Palos Verdes season, and also excelled at Square Garden in New York. Marquette and DePaul at home, establish a really well-balanced (Calif. l High School to the state defense, being named ND's best After that, they return home to so we'll have at least lo-U games team.k Hopefully we have more championship. defensive palyer. He will have a prepare for the home opener next that we're going to be fighting guys with experience that will play "Laimbeer is going to be a real lot of company form Wllliams, the Saturday, November 29th, against
for." 

better off the boards and play contributor," says Phelps,"and Washington D.C. native who put in Kent State. 
Phelps is fortunate however, to better team defense. The maturity Flowers is a guy who just never 5.8 points per game as a freshman "It's going to be a great year allhave one of the best gladiators in of a year will be a key factor for quits. He's doing a real fine job." last year. 'Duck' started four around," he comments. "Indiana,the country, Adrian Dantley, to us." In the backcourt, Ray 'Dice' games towards the end to the Marquette, UCLA and others have help him in these battles. The 6-4, Those involved significantly in Martin, from Long Island City, season is expected to be able to great teams. We started four210 lb. Dantley passed up a that maturing process include swing up front and hit the side years ago with a 6-20 record and
lucrative pro contract to return for juniors Bill Paterno, Toby Knight jumper. Sophomore Carpenter now look, we're nearly sold out for
his junior year, and he has but a and Ray Martin and sophomores Sailing team also started several games last the season. But everyone hasfew plateaus left to reach. Last Dave Batton, Don 'Duck' year and quickly earned the contributed, the whole school. season he was a consensus first­Williams and Jeff Carpenter. reputation as a great floor general "We've done our thing and done it team All-American, and finished Paterno, a 6-5 forward from 2nd in Michigan and playmaker. Junior Dave within the rules. Now our in­
second in the nation in scoring with Spring Lake, New Jersey, was The Notre Dame Sailing Team Kuzmicz will be trying to equal the centive is to keep it up."

a 30.4 scoring average. He led the ND's second leading scorer last traveled to the University of team in rebounding, too, and was year with a 13.3 average. Paterno Michigan this past weekend for the named the Irish MVP. After only will likely swing from forward to Area 'A' Elims, the qualifyingtwo seasons, he ranks fifth on the guard this s~ason, utilizing h~s regatta for the Timme Angston SMC swim team defeated 

all-time Notre Dame scoring list, deadly shot or Re in
. outstde hts atta Chicago overwith 1.394 career points. 

aeggres.stve plar ~nderneath ~ Th:nksgiving.
"Needless to say, A.D. is the d by Patti Ruocco The 25 member team is now
~end1~g on the situation. The 6-8 Notre Dame sailed verv con-
most talented athlete I have ever Kmght IS also expected to be a · · f' · d regarded as a varsity sport and has 
coached, " says Phelps. "He's maJ'or t 'b t 10 · th f ststantly, takmg 3 1rsts, 6 secon s, The St. Mary's swim team was a full slate of meets ,,cheduled, 
. con n u or e oreco~t: and 2 thirds in twelve races. Buzz
skilled at every phase of the game. defeated last weekend in a including one with powerful Ohio
co.mmg of~ last year as the Insh Reynolds paced the team by taking
He can shoot form outside, drive to triangular meet at Valparaiso State.
th1r~ leadmg scorer and second Low Point Skipper in •A' division.
the basket, move the ball, rebound University. The final score was The team is sponsoring a
leadmg rebounder. J?ave. Batton, John Goodill and Paul
and play defense. He's got to be Valparaiso 88, DePaw 77 and St. swimathon from 6 p.m. Dec. 5
6-9, cracked the startmg bneul? at Makielski sailed consistantly well
the top candidate for player of the Mary's 41. through 6 p .m .Dec. 7 to raise funds. 
the end _of last season and promises in 'B' division gathering only 15
year." Returning from last year's team Those interested in helping at the
to ~rovtde a lot of help up front. points in 6 races. Carloe Froling
This year, however, the Irish are are Kelee Nash, Roseanne Pecora, event are asked to contact Raf­
Semors Myron Schuckman and and Jean Benedett supported the 
a deeper, more experienced team, Cindy Kulick, Shauna Murray, ferty (4-4804) or Ruocco (4-4711).
Roger Anderson,. and sophomore effort as crews in 'A' division. 
a factor which should take some of Nora Reily, Pat Farro and coaches Pledges will be taken from Dec.
Randy HB:efner Will B:lso be read¥. The final results show that
the pressure off Dantley and make Sheila Rafferty and Lynda Ruocco. I to the end of the swimmathon.
Phelps IS als~ conf1de~t that hts Michigan took advantage of theirthe Irish a much better, well­two fresh;'Jlen btg. m~~ Wlll be ab~e hom waters, finishing first with 17rounded ream. After a year where to contnbute stgmfiCantly this points, the Notre Dame effortinexperience and lack of cohesion s~ason .. Both Bruce Flowers B:nd netted second place with 28 points,hurt them considerably, they are 
Irish plummet from polls
Bill ~atmbeer were All-Amertca and Michigan State was third with ready to reap the benefits of time selections. Flo~ers, at 6-8, 218lbs., 42 points after a disappointing day. 
and practice. 

averaged 28 pomts and 20 rebounds More important is that the Notre For the first time since 1963, and Nebraska and Oklahoma
Dame effort qualified the team for 

Notre Dame is conspiciously ab­<sixth ranked in the UPI and
the Angston Regatta. 

sent from the latest AP and UPI seventh in the AP) also battle.
This regatta is the equivilent of 

collegiate football polls. The Irish Surprising Pittsburgh moved
the Fall National Championships. 

This will be Notre Dame's second were 2-7 that year. Another into 17th place in the AP and a tie appearance in two years at the perennial Top Twenty team, for fifteenth in the UPI by virtue of Angston Regatta. Southern California -also disap­its trouncing of the Fighting Irish. pered from the rankings. Southern Cal, which lost its third With two weeks left in the straight game under lame duckHarriers place regular season, Ohio State places coach John McKay, a 8-7 decision first in both the AP and UPI polls. to Washington, fell from 17th lastninth in districts Nebraska continues to be right on week to the ranks of the neglected. 
the heels of the Buckeyes. The Colorado moved up to claim by Mike Towle Cornhuskers are less than 100 the number nine spot vacated by
votes behind in the UPI balloting. 

Notre Dame and Sugar Bowl
The Notre Dame cross country 

Texas A & M cQntinues to hold bound Penn State places tenth.
team closed out its 1975 season this 
a strong grip on the third spot The second ten consists of

last Saturday by placing ninth in 
· Michigan and Arizona, Florida, California,

the NCAA district 2 Cham­
Alabama round out the Top Five in UCLA, Georgia, Miami of Ohio,

pionshp held at Bloomington. 
both polls. 

Pitt, Missouri, Arkansas and
Craig_ IVirgin of lllinois took 
A sudden shakeup may occur Maryland.
individual honors in a record time 
this weekend as Michigan and 
of 29:18.5 to.beat out Herb Lindsay 
Ohio, State tangle in Ann Arbor Here are the polls:
of Michigan State and Mike McGuire of Michigan who finished 
U.P.I. Poll A.P. Poll
second and third, respectively. 
I.OhiuSt. (1(1.11) (:tl)

Senior captain Jim Hurt was the ~2 I. Ohtn St. (411) 1~0. 1.1:111
2. Nebraska (lfi.O) (H) 3:1'! 2. Nebra!ika (II) 1~0 

I.O!iH
first Irish finisher in 31st place 3. Tt>xas A&M (11-0) 

.:!!Iii 3. Texas A&:M (1) t4ll with Steve Welch coming lin 39th. 4. Alahama (!1-1) .243 4. M\fhigan llo4-2 •:\
5. Michigan (ll-0-2) 242 
Alabalna t-1-0

Other Notre Dame runners in­~-671
fi. Oklahoma (9-I) 21111 

6. Texas H;O fill9
cluded Dennis Vanderkraats in 7 TI'Xas (9-1 I 201 7. Oklahoma t. HI 

~~~~~ 
K Artzcina St. (1{)-11) .AA

57th Jim Reinhart, 63rd, Joe 8. Ari1XIIla St. lfi.IHI 432
9 Colontdo ("'2> .4.1 9. Colorado fl.~ 

-~
Yates 99th, and Dan Horgan 125th. Ill Penn St. (!I-t) .:13 3811
10. Penn ll't. 8-2-G 
II. Arizona (Il-l)

The University of Wisconsin .211 n. Arizona 8-1-o .m
12. Florida (11-2) .25. 
12•. Florilla i-2-o

took team laurels with Michigan, t:l. Georgia (fl.2') 1116
!3 1!\. California 7-3-0 41
Indiana, Illinois and Kent State 14. California (V-3) It li, UCLA 7-J.I 

121
II. (lie) UCLA (1-2·1)

~· rounding out the top five thus .II .li.~S.U .!II 
qualifying to compete in the NCAA li. (tie) Pittsburgh (7·3) •• lll,~mi, o. t-1-v II
.8 17. ,pj.II 7-:J.{I.• Ill
Veteran BIIIPaterno.-eturns with Dantley to form the nucleus of this Championship which will be held '17. (tiel Artcansa" (7-~. .6 
Ill. IIIIMI..ri'ut

year's team. II. (l.le),Wetr Vil'llitila.(tl-2) .5 .u
•
at Pellh ·State on November 24th. It Ariiii!IS88 1LU 
... tilt) Tulil 17-3) . 
-~ ~allft7_,.1 




