

server 
-st. mary's college 
/Tuesday, Aeril 22, 1975 

Thieu resigns presidential post 
SAIGON <UPil -Nguyen Van Thieu resigned Monday as president of South Vietnam blaming the military disasters that have lost three-fourths of his country on the United States: "The Americans promised us -we trusted them." 
"If the Americans don't want to support us any more, let them go, get out," Thieu said. "Let them forget their humanitarian promises." 
Thieu said his resignation opened the way to possible negotiations for a cease-fire. But there was no im­mediate comment from the Viet Cong's Provisional Revolutionary Government in Saigon. 
In Paris, the PRG greeted Thieu's resignation with a warning there will be peace only if Americans promptly withdraw all their_military personnel and all members of Thieu's "clique" are removed from power. 
Thieu's resignation -54 days short of 10 years as president -came at 8:40 p.m. At that moment, Viet Cong and North Vietnamese forces held 75 percent ofthe country and 21 of its 44 provinces, and had 150,000 men with tanks, rockets and artillery poised on three sides of Saigon itself ·· some within 20 miles of the capital. 
Military analysts said South Vietnam's battlefield position appeared hope,Jess. 
Thieu blames U.S. Fighting back tears, Thieu read a letter he said had 
evacuation operation so far.
been written in 1973 by then U.S. President Richard panic.Nixon. guaranteeing all necessary aid for South "You Americans have not given us the aid you , Worldwide reactions Vietnam to defend itseU if Thieu would sign the Paris promised us," Thieu said in his. rambling, sharply anti-In London, Sir Robert Thompson, former coun­peace agreements. American speech. "With that aid you promised us, I 
terinsurgency adviser to the United States in Vietnam, 
Thieu singled out Secretary of State Henry would not be afraid of the Communists. predicted Thieu's resignation would be followed Kissinger. "I never thought a man like Mr. Kissinger "If the United States had intervened as itshouldhave, quickly by a South Vietnamese surrender and would deliver our people to such a disastrous fate," he WI:' would not be losing province capitals, district establishment of a Communist regime in Saigon.
said. capitals," Thieu said. "And we would not be faced with 
France, which played host to the Vietnam talks "My resignation willllet the United States give you losing our national capital. Maybe we could have culminating in the peace agreements of Jan. 'J:l, 1973,aid and open the way to negotiations to end the nation's worked out something with the Communists." urged an immediate cease-fire and said it was ready to 26 years of war," Thieu said. Amt>ricans evacuate ~:>xtend its hospitality again for a renewal of peace But the U.S. Congress has balked at providing fur-South Vietnam lost two more of its provinces by talks. ther military aid to the country where it already has military defeat Monday. Americans fled Saigon by the The Paris-based Provisional Revolutionary 
spent $140 billion, and there was little hope any would hundreds and Australia decided to close down its Government of the Republic of South Vietnam, as the be forthcoming. Pmbassy. VietCong calls itself, said Thieu's resignation in favor At the Pnd of his 90-minute speech, Thieu kissed his Military analysts said South Vietnam's battlefield of Vice President Tran Van Huong might be only successor. 72-year-old Vice President Tran Van Huong, position appeared hopeless. Viet Cong and North another American maneuver.lt demanded the im­on both cheeks and eseorted him to the lectern to be Vietnamese forces backed by tanks and artillery mediate ouster of the Thieu "clique" and said the sworn in. Huong himself was expected to resign in overran the province capitals of Xuan Loc and Ham Americans would have to leave Vietnam entirely 
favor of Senate President Tran Van Lam, a political Tan. and had an estimated 150,000 men in position before peace could be achieved. moderate who might be able to open talks with the for a possible major assault on Saigon itself. In Japan, although there was no ~fficlal reaction to Communists. South Vietnese regulars defending Saigon were the resignation, two Tokyo newspapers carried front 
In Washington. President Ford conferred with outnumbered three to one. Their defense line was page stories warning the imminent fall of South Kissinger, and a spokesman said later the United pushed back to within 26 miles of the capital. Vietnam would prompt a U.S. pull back of its Asian States expects to work with Thieu's successor. Senate More than 1,000 Americans and Vietnamese left defense lines to exclude South Korea and Taiwan. 
D~:>mocratic leader Mike Mansfield called the Vietnam Monday in a speeded-up U.S. airlift trying to Tokyo Shimbun, which has close links to some key resignation a "move in the right direction" which stay ahead of the rapidly deteriorating military and figures in Japan's ruling Liberal-Democratic Party, might bring about a negotiated peace settlement. political situation. specualted Guam, Japan and the Philippines would 
Most senior officials said they believed Thieu would The airlift schedule called for less than 2,000 become the front line of American defense in the se~:>k ~:>xile, possibly in the United States. Thieu himself Am~:>ricans and their dependents -most of them Pacific. has no indication when he might leave South Viet-Vietnamese -to be in the war-threatened capital by The Soveit Union had no official reaction, but the nam. Tuesday morning, and most of them should be out of government news agency, Tass, said in a dispatch 
Saigon's defenses were placed on full alert. During the countrv soon after. from Tokyo: "The departure of the head of the Saigon the speech itself, authorities ordered an 8 p.m. to 7 a.m. Most of the evacuees were ferried by U.S. Air Force clique from the political scene is another evidence of curfew -one hour longer than normal both in the C141 Starlifter jets flying day and night to Clark Air the disintegration of the rotten regime in South Viet­
and · tly to avoid possible Base in the Philippines in the most intensified nam."
.-liiliiililililil.._....,llllllil.._llllilll_llllllil___.. Byrne submits proposal 
SLC continuesparietals debate 
Discussion of the report of the ·violations of the University's ·issue will be continued at the·next SLC Committee on Planning and sexuality code. SLC meeting, which will be held Policy dominated last night's SLC The committtee report notes, April 28. meeting. "Complexities soon developed as The meeting opened with a 
SBP Ed Byrne initiated parietal violations became reading of the new preamble and discussion on a number of synonymous with violations of the by-laws of the SLC. The preamble proposals which would change the sexuality regulations." The report distinguishes the legislative and role of the hall staffs and the hall stresses the need for competent advisory duties of the Council. The judicial boards in the enforcement objectivity in the judicial board new by-laws contain a title change of parietal hours. m~:>mbers. from chairman to chairperson. 
One of Byrne's proposals would The degree of flexibility in A new office was also an­give a more stable structure to the visitation hours was also discussed nounced. A parliamentarian will hall judicial boards. This by the SLC. Sr. John Miriam be elected by the Council from proposal, which he drafted with Jones, who chairs the Planning 1among its membership according newly-appointed Judicial Co-and Policy Committee, noted, to the same procedures as ordinator John Lonsberg, would "There are exceptions and the ~:>stablished for the slection of a standardize election procedures rector should be allowed to make chairperson. The parliamentarian for the hall judicial boards. Also these exceptions in special cir­will be empowered to rule on all included in the recommendation cumstances." matters of procedure. was a proposal to make the length Sr. Jones added that the Office of . The most significant change, of term for a hall judicial board Student Affairs and the rectors aside from the reduction in m~:>mber the same as the length of should work together in working m~:>mbership, deals with the his stay in the hall. out guidelines for such extensions. · redefinition of a quorom. For­
The Byrne proposal is a reaction The observation by Byrne that mally, five students, faculty to the SLC committee report which the student survey used in the SLC members and administrators each A REPORTED attempted rape resulted In a crack-down In ca called for a more reasonable report indicates a need for ex­were needed to constitute a 
security measures. In response to complaints about ovv•r•~•-• means of enforcing parietals on a perimentation in parietal ; quorum. Under the new by-laws, a 
campus areas, an extra light has been Installed In the hall level. The report asks that limitations was also discussed by 1 quorom is achieved when at least way between Sacred Heart Church and the Admlnl!l.tra1tln1n 
violations of visitation hours be the Council. ' twelve of the fifteen members of considered as separate from. 1 Consideration of, .the..parietal 1 the Council are present. 


the observer Tuvci•Y• ADrll 22, 1975 

world briefs 

LOS ANGELES (UPI) Former President Richard Nixon announced Sunday that he will donate materials ac­cumulated during his public career, Including the so-called White House tapes, to a Presidential Library to be established at the University of Southern California. 
MONTREAT, N.C. (UPI) ­Evangelist Billy Graham said Sunday Americans have a responslbllllty to provide humanitarian aid to Indochina and called for "urgent negotiations" to assure the safety o South VIetnamese whose lives are endangered. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -A lawyer for <' condemned black man told the Supreme Court Monday the death penalty should be abolished forever as an affront to "evolving stan­dards of decency." 
All nine justices were present 
to hear the historic 90 minutes 
of arguments over capital 
punishment. Justice William 0. 
Douglas, partially paraluzed by 
a stroke, came to the court from 
a hospital bed. 
HONOLULU (UPI)-Lon Nol, 
president of the fallen 
Cambodian government, plans 
to purchase a $100,000 home In 
Honolulu, It was disclosed 
Sunday, but the present owner 
Isn't so sure he wants to sell to· 
him. 
A spokesman for Mike 
McCormack realtors said that 
Lon Nol personally lnspectedthe1 
two-story, four-bedroom 
house located In the posh 
Mariners Cove develooment In 
Hawaii Kal. 
an campus today 

9 am -5 pm --peace corps-vista recruiters, lib. lobby 
3:30 
pm --computer course, "cobol," 113 comp. cen. 

3:30 
pm --tennis, n.d. women vs. chicago, outdoor courts 


4:30 pm --seminar, "genetic analysis of pathways for gluconeogenls In escherichia coli," 278 gal. life 
7:30 pm --lecture, tran­scendental meditation , lib. aud. 7:30-9:30 pm --dance, faculty lessons, $2, Iafortune ballroom 8 pm --lecture, "sierra leone," 1201 lib. 8 & 10 pm --film, "rashomon," $1, eng. aud. 
kansas 

Circle K to sponsor basketball marathon 
The Notre Dame Social Com­mission and the Circle K, a service organization associated with the Kiwanis Club, are co-sponsoring a basketball marathon for muscular dystrophy on the Bookstore courts, according to Kevin Sadler, member of the Social Commission. 
"I think this is a good op­portunity for the students to get involved in something that will be both fun and good for the com­munity," Sadler stated. "We'd like the students to really become involved in this project, or else the chances of this being a success are very small," he added. 
Members of the varsity 
basketball team will be on hand to 
start off the marathon on Wed­
nesday, April23, at 12:30p.m. The 
marathon is scheduled to run 24 
hours a day, until April 30. In­
dividuals and teams wishing to 
participate should call the Om-

ND Junior class traditional bar · 
night planned 
The junior classes of Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's will sponsor 
Junior Bar night Monday April 28, 
at the Alumni Senior Club. The 
Senior Bar will open from 8 p.m. to 
1 a .m . and admission will be 
limited to juniors who are 21 years 
old. 
The Junior Bar Night has 
become a second semester 
tradition, according to Senior 
Class President Augie Grace. Its 
purpose, he added, is to introduce 
juniors to what Senior Bar 
membership involves. 
"The Senior Bar could be the 
center of social interaction for 
seniors and we hope to foster this 
sense of unity throughout all of 
next year," Grace stated. "The 
Junior Night is an excellent op­
portunity for us to start creating 
that image." 
Junior Ed Reilly is chairman of 
the event and he termed his plans 
for the night "different and ex­
citing." 
Plans for the evening include a pool tournament, entertainment by various singing groups, a "Lack of Talent Contest" and sing-alongs. Door prizes and certificates for free Senior Bar memberships next year will be given out. 
Grace noted that final plans are 
still be worked on and volunteers to 
serve as checkers at the door and 
performers for the entertainment 
and the contest are needed. In­
terested persons may contact 
Grace at 1504 or Reilly at 289-7564. 


mahogany rush 
in concert tickets $4 and $3 thursday 24.april 9:00pm ticket sales elliott hall of music at hall of music box office 


\(AN)~S 
MA\tOC~y ~IJS\-\ at Pu.rc:lut.. 
budsman Service (7638) and give the names of those wishing to participate and the times they would like to play. 
"Right now we need players for the late night and early morning hours, particularly,'' Tom Schnellenberger, representative of Circle K. 
Saturday will be "Celebrity Day," according to Sadler. The WRBR disc jockeys and South Bend mayoral candidate Ben Johnson are among those slated to participate. 
ISLI to meet,
• M • 

TIMM PARTY STORE 
OPEN Mon-Sat 9:00 A.M.-11 :00 P.M. Sun 12:00-11:00 P.M. 
COLD BEER, WINE, GOURMET FOODS 
PlAYLAND GOLF aNTER 
9 HOLE • P'All 3 GOLF CotlRSE Driving llango f 8 Holo Minialu,.. 
LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWOOD 
caLL 1288-0033 1 
If No Ans Call 282-2366 

1~ NoUe ~~~:.:~~! ~,~~~~~!!!!~~~1~7~15!L~IN~C~O~LN!W~A!Y!E~A~ST~S~O~.~BE!N~D!!!~~ 
International student Leadership Institute <ISLI) will hold a meeting tonight at 7 in the Morrissey Hall chapel to explain the goals and purposes of the organization for any Notre Dame or St. Mary's 
student interested in joining.

The basic objective of the In­stitute is to assist high school students who show interestin high 
school activities in discovering the 
techniques and art of leadership. Every year the NotreDame chapter holds a conference in
November, and high school students fromall over the country attend. Last year, 150 students attended the conference. 
During the year, students from Notre Dame and St. Mary's go to high schools through the ' country and Canada on weekends and conduct small workshops. The workshops help the high school student understand what leadership entails through the group process and task orien­tation. Also, some high school groups come to Notre Dameon weekends. 
Besides the Notre Dame chapter, there are ISLI chapters at Stonehill College in Boston, Clarke College in Dubuque Iowa, Mary­crest College in Ceder Rapids, Iowa, Ursuline College in Cleveland, and St. John's University in New York is establishing a chapter for next year. 
Presently there are 30 students in the Notre Dame chapter. 
The Observer is published dally 
during the college semester except 
vacations by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame Met St. 
Mary's College. SubKrlptlons 
may be purchased for S9 per 
semester (S16 per year) from 'The 
Observer l!lo£ Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

FROM NOW UNTIL FINALS, YOU'LL BE STUDYING. TAKE ABREAK FOR 
DEEP DISH PIZZA 
N0 T R E DAM E STU DENT U N I 0 N PROUDlY PRESENTS


T H E 

A L 1cE c0 0 pE R 
sHow 

"WELCOME TO MY NIGHTMARE" 

STARRING 
··········~--~·"/ 
/ 
WITH: JOZEF CHIROWSKI 
SPECIAL GUEST STAR:
WHITEY CLAN STEVE HUNTER PRAKASH JOHN DICK WAGNER 


SUZI QUATRO 

TUESDAY APRIL 29 8:00 p.m. 
NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTER 
TICKETS NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE AND A.C.C. ONLY. PRICES: $7.00, $6.00, and $5.00 
''THE PAN''· DEEP DISH PIZZA 
lor fhe 
N.D. & S.M.C. COMMUNITY 
IT'S AS CLOSE AS YOUR PHONE 

277-1221 or 277-1222 
I



FREE DELIVERY I 
on or off-campus I 
-also quick pickup service 
I 
-· -· • J.
'107 DIXIEWAY NORTH • JUST.NORTH OF RANDALL'S INN
..____________.....,. ..... .
~~ 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Tuesday, April 22, 1975 the obse~er · 3 
~ ,.,-,...,..•.::.. ''' ·---=~":J"rr<--,.---,-,.=•--•= . 

Role of multi-national corporations in''Underdeveloped countries /discussed 
by Shawn Scannell Staff Reporter 

Three economists diseussed the role multi-national corporations in underdeveloped countries last night at 8 pm. in the Hayes-Healy Center. Frederick Dow, professor of marketing management; Basil O'Leary, professor of eeomonics; and guest speaker Aminesh Goshal. specialist in marketing took part in the discussion. 
Professor O'Leary outlined several qualities of multi-national corporations. He noted that these businesses produce a product in a foreign country as well as sell it there, they take part as a fairly major factor in offering economic services to the country, they employ local nationals in the business, and that there is multiple stock holding which crosses national lines. 
O'Leary noted that there is some ill feeling about the presence of these corporations in the un­derdeveloped countries in that tht>y use some loeal capital which compt>tes with its use by local companies. 
Amint>sh Goshal went on to outline some of the reasons a company will seek to become multi-national. He noted factors such as utilitization of an established market there and that these companies wish to plow profits into a new market abroad if Ihe domestic one is for some reason closed. What he considered to be the most important reason was that these compan1ies desire a higher rate of return of their investment,whichinducesthe risk in going abroad. 
As to their size, Goshal said, 
"Tht> worldwide sales of these 
companies are many times larger 
than the total budgets of many of 
the smaller undeJrdeveloped countries. They are even 
Escort service schedule 
Badin to Lyons  Walsh to Badin  Walsh to Library  
8:11  8:08  8:22  
8:26  8:23  8:37  
8:41  8:38  8:52  
8:56  8:53  9:07  
9:11  9:08  9:22  
9:26  9:23  9:37  
9:41  9:38  9:52  
9:56  9:53  10:07  
10:11  10:28  10:22  
10:26  10:23  10:37  
10:41  10:38  10:52  
10:56  10:53  11:07  
11:11  11:08  11:22  
11:26  11:23  11:37  
11:41  11:38  
11:56  11:53  

Badin to the Library 
8:19 8:34 8:49 9:04 9:19 9:34 9:49 
10:04 
10:19 
10:34 
10:49 
11:04 
11:19 
11:34 Lyons to Library every fifteen minutes starting at 8:15 until11:30. 

Escorts will meet the girls at phones in the lobbies of the halls. Escorts will bring the girls to any destination they desire except the Senior Bar and St. Mary's. 
North Quad girls needing service are asked to call security. They will inform the escort at ~e circle to meet you at the phones m the lobby. 


-
NOW AIPPEARING 
SUPER~ CIRKUS 
AND 

~OUTH SHORE 

bigger than the GNP of many of these countries." 
Professor Dow proposed a plan 
for the multi-national companies to 
aid the underdeveloped countries. 
He suggested the combined efforts 
of capital, techchnology, and 
mangement expertise. 
"I feel that the developing 
countries of the world have a great 
responsibility to attempt to feed 
their people," Dow said. He 
proposed a two-fold plan to work 
with the local governments to aid 
the resolution of the hunger 
problem. 
The first part of the plan would combine the manufacturing power of pesticide, fertilizer, agricultural machinery, and seed producers with the expertise of firm management companies. This would work to set the country on the right road to recovery with a planned self-removal of the managementafter 15 to 20years. At this time the country would be on 
its own on its own with ad­
vanced ability and t>xperience in 
handling their hunger problem. 
The second part of the plan wouJa 
have companies with expertise 
in manufacturing and marketing to work with the local government in distributing a protein­supplemented diet for the poor, consisting mostly of vegetables high in protein. 

The point of the entire discussion was the need to resolve the hunger problem. and Professor Dow's rt>mark that we should do what we can. Even if it may not feed t>vervone, we will at least do 
som~ good, Dow said. 
Expert to talk on wartime dissent 
Dr. Charles B. Macnonald an expert in U.S. Military History, especially World War II and the Vietnam War, will present a lec­ture in the library lounge on Wednesday night at 8:30. The lecture is on "Dissent in Wartime America" and is co-sponsored by the Departments of History and Military Science. 

MacDonald is currently Deputy Chief Historian for Southeast Asia and works out of the U.S. Army Center of Military History in Washington, D.C. He will be responsible for writing the official history of the U.S. Army's in­volvement in South Vietnam. · MacDonald has also written several books including Company Commander, Airbourne, The Mighty Endeavor, The Last Campaign and Command DPciSiOP 
STEWART MCGUIRE SHOES 
With the Spring 
Step cushion 
DAD-& FAMILY 503 N. Blaine Ave. , So. Bend 234-4469 

PEACE CORPSNIST A 
ON CAMPUS 
April 22, 23 
Library Lobby 

50~ 

Large Pizzas $2.00 CELEBRATE BEFORE EXAMS 




DOME 1976 
"the yearbook of the university" 
is now accepting applications for: 
-student life editor • organizations editor -sports editor 
• seniors editor 
-photography editor business manager 
For more information, or to apply, call Dana at 7524 between the hours of 7 -9 pm today 
through Friday., A written resume will be required. No applications accepted after midnight on Friday, 
April 25. 

WIN A 1 0 SPEED BICYCLE 
AND CRUISE THE QUAD IN STYLE THIS SPRING/ 
The Purchase of Any PRO TOOTHBRUSH at 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
Will Give You a Chance to Win This Bicycle 
,,,_,·.. ENT.E.R..TODAY·:::::.·.·,.'.',,·:.·. I,·,,·,·:;;,·,·:.':>,'.·.'.·.-. 


erver T...-.v, 
drain. This year's team had only two seniors, myself being of them. With the tremendous amount of talent displayed by the

P. 0. Box Q 
feshmen, sophomore and juniors this year, that team has a very bright future. But obviously someone doesn't care about that. 


Why is Coach Pechek Being Fired? 
Dear Editor: 
It has come to our attention that 
the Physical Education Depart­
ment has made the decision not to 
rt~hire Coach Pechek as head 
wrestling coach and physical 
education instructor. 
None of us being wrestlers, we are not prepared to argue with the ·Physical Education Department's reasons for not rehiring him in that capacity. , Since'.we all had him for a physical education teacher, however, we are in a position to testify to his excellence in that pOsition. We find it hard to believe that such a competent teacher wiU not be rehired, and question .the Phys. Ed. Department's decision. We suggest that other students who have had Coach Pechek and share our opinion call the Phys. Ed. Depart.and voice their disapproval of this unfortunate 
deciston. 
Ted Howard James Blelunas Chuck Mackett 
Dear Editor: 
While very few members of the Notre Dame community are aware of the fine season the varsity wrestling team had this year, even fewer are aware of the injustice being done to the wrestling coach. The season was the most suc­cessful seaosn ever had by an Irish wrestling team. Severfll school records were broken including the most team wins during a season 
(14). 
This is no small accomplishment considering that this year's schedule was the toughest ever faced by the Irish. We faced 9 top­ranked teams in dual meets and no Jess than 20 All-Americans in­dividually, in dual meets and in tournaments. 
With all due respect to assistant coach Ray Sepeta and the wrestlers themselves, these ac­complishments are the direct result of one man's hard work, devotion, leadership, teaching ability, and confidence in his team. 
That man is Coach Fred Pechek. He has just completed his second year here at Notre Dame, as a physical Education instructor and varsity wrestling coach. 
But due to some bureaucratic maneuvering and outright backstabbing in the Phys. Ed. department, this will be Coach Pechek's last year here at ND. While on a wrestling trip at Penn State, for the Eastern Regional qualifier, he was notified that his contract wiU not be renewed for next year. His devotion was exhibited by the fact that he refused to let us know what had happened because he knew it would upset us emotionally, just like it did him. 
Knowing coach Pechek as I do and knowing how much he loves the Notre Dame that he himself graduated from, I'm astonished he was able to maintain his com­posure as well as he did. Much Jess carry on his coaching duties and successfully qualify one of our team members for the NCAA tournament. 
It should be pointed out that the person mainly responsible for this injustice is Tom Fallon, P.E. Department Chairman, Tennis coach and fomer wrestling Coach. This same person was responsible for the release of another highly talented and successful wrestling coach, Terry Mather. Mather coached the 1971-72 record setting team, of which I was also a member. Although Mather was released for some unethical practices supposedly, I can assure 
L~ 
We have made that team 

you the shock to the team and the something this university can be 
wrestling program was uncalled proud of. It is safe to say that we 
for in both cases. have always represented the 
The administration seems to University with the integrity and 
have a hand in this matter also. sportsmanship that is a tradition 
Before Easter Break, the mem­here at Notre dame. Ask anyone 
bers of the wrestling team initiated on the wrestling team, before each 
a petition requesting the retention match and even in practice, coach 
of Coach Pechek on his merits as a Pechek always reminded us that 
person, teacher and coach. We we are representing the 
circulated them among people who University of Notre Dame. If we 
had been in Pechek's P.E. classes, failed to do this by any action on or 
wrestled for him and knew him off the mat, we would have no 
personally <As well as a number of longer been a member of this 
people who only knew him through team. Can the people responsible 
his accomplishments\. for this injustice say that they have 
Everyone approached seemed upheld those same ideals that Fred 
very receptive to signing the Pechek held so highly? 
petition and asked why was he 

being released after , doing ; such a Mike Kemp 
fine job. Af~r the petitions were 
completed we took them to Father 

Burtchaell's o.ffice. •He was out of 'Why is a man 
town, so they were left with his 

secretary. We were assured he who has a~ways
would receive them upon his 

return. That was more than four been a credit to 
weeks ago and they haven't been 

acknowledged, as far as I know. the university 
The questions I am raising are: 

Why is Coach Pechek being fired? being released?' 
Why is a man who has always been 
a credit to this University being 
released? The exact reasons for Dear Editor: 

his release are being hidden by 
those responsible but some rather 

vague and ridiculous reasons have .Isn't it time for the Ad­slipped out. It seems that Pechek ministration to stop confusing is being fired because he wears people and start making the "Red T Shirts" at the Rock, in­positive decisions necessary for stead of the official P.E. shirt the betterment of the Notre Dame designanted by Fallon. He is community? After seeing the accused of not being enthusiastic in confusion arising from the han­his classes, identifying with the dling of the basketball tickets and student too much and speaking up next year's schedule, maybe when he feels something is not Coach Pechek should not have being handled fairly or properly. been · surprised by the ad­. ministration's actions against
Now I ask you, how ridiculous is 

him.
that? I thought dress codes were for military academies and private We have both had Coach Pechek country clubs, neither which Notre for several P. E. classes and have Dame qualifies as. Enthusiasm? not noticed any major dif­Anyone who knows Fred Pechek ferences in "professional com­knows that he overflows..· with petence" between him and any enthusiasm toward those around· other P. E. instructors. We found him. Student identification and the way he organized his classes to being outspoken? Of course he be conducive to the students' does, Pechek is more than willing mastering the fundamentals of the to help and stand behind any activity. We find it amusing that student who needs help, wants to the committee would feel it improve himself or strive for necessary for the Notre Dame logo athletic achievement. And anyone ~o appear on their instructors' who is willing to sit by and watch clothing. How many other something take place that he knows departments in the University and feels is wrong has no business require their instructors to do the teaching at this university or even same? In fact, we noticed that the living in this great country. majority of the time Coach Pechek 
Coach Pechek has raised the was decked out in the blue and gold wrestling program from mediocre colors of Notre Dame, and that his to a step away from being a clothing was "comfortable and national contender. I think this easy toperformin" as his contract accomplishment speaks for itself. required. Maybe this is why Fallon doesn't Without being a "rah-rah" about want him around! The wrestling it he succeeded in instilling into ~ program was of. little more than students a desire to reach a level of intramural caliber when Mr. confidence in the activities he Fallon was in charge. Is Coach coached. Coupled with his Pechek the subject of some demonstrative ability, this enabled professional jealousy? his students to more fully ap­
I'm sure the reason for this preciate his classes. action can't be based on the man's With these thoughts in mind, we teaching methods alone. How can feel we deserve a better ex­a department like Physical planation of the events surrounding Education whose own programs Coach Pechek's contract not being are a joke and are treated as such renewed. Was his case ever ap­by most freshman who take them, pealed officially and if not, why bo so critical of one man? Are the not? We, as students, are tired of performance standards that being confused by the ad­strict? They can't possibly be. If ministration and hope that the Coach Pechek is being released for situation will be clarified soon. not fulfiUing his duty, then some of If 1500 students here feel Coach the other men in that department Pechek is getting the shaft, need to be· re-evaluated also, wouldn't it be in the best interests starting with the department of all for the case to be recon­chairman! sidered? 
This is a grave injustice being done to a man who least deserves Arthur J. Bilek it. I'm ~ure this is the first time the Orest Deychakiwsky 
1University community has been made aware of this terrible situation. Which leeds me to 


Harter Hts. 
another question: why is everyon else trying to hide it while those of 


Issue 

us closest lto the matters are trying to bring it out into the open? The P. E department and-Dear Editor: 
administration may want coach As a three time graduate of the Pechek and the wl'estling teram to University of Notre Dame 0963, accept this but we can't! The '64, '67) and the President of the wrestling program has come too Harter Heights and Neighbors far and many of us have given too\ Association, I am not only keenly much, to just let it go d~wn \the sensitive to the misun­derstandings, misinterpretations, and false implications that have appeared in The Observer recently in connection with the amend­ments to the South Bend Zoning Ordinances, but also morally obliged to correct these inac­curacies. 
(1) Your statement that the University . Administration, Off­Campus Office and Student Government were not consulted with or apprised of this situation and our solution to it is blatantly erroneous. On November 20, 1974 the first time that the problems were posed to a general meeting of my neighbors, Fr. Terry Lally was in attendance as a representative of Notre Dame. On December 9, 1974, the problem and our prospective solution to it were discussed with Fr. Lewers, and on December 11, 1974, the same topics were posed to Mr. James Roemer, one of the University's attorneys. Later in December, these very things were also discussed with Brother Just Paczesny and Robert Ackerman from the Student Af­fairs Office as well as Edward Burns, the president of your student body and Stan Cardenas. Indeed, Brother Just, and student representatives attended our general membership meeting of January 14, 1975 when the drafted ordinance amendments were presented and explained to our general membership, and ratified. It is difficult if not impossible to believe that you were "unaware" 
of what was going on. See e.g., The Observer, December 6, 1974, p. 15; Ibid, January 16, 1975, p. 4, as well as the many articles and two editorials in the South Bend Tribune and television and radio coverage. 
(2) No one that I know of had any "goal of phasing (student housing) out entirely", and the amendments themsleves do not force students out of the city. The amendments apply directly only to A Residential areas in the City. These are neighborhoods which are oriented toward single family living, and uses such as boarding houses, rooming houses, tourist homes, etc. are prohibited even under the old ordinances. The false idea that students are being forced out of the city is ridiculous. Areas zoned A-1 and Ballow multi­family living, and rentals such as boarding houses, apartments, etc. In addition, any home in A Residential can have up to two-non family members as roomers. This specific extension of the "family" concept was drafted into the amendments as a result of our concern for people who were providing lodging or boarding for Notre Dame students. 
As has been pointed out, the ordinance is not retroactive. The new ordinance simply stops the spread of absentee landlords and outside banks from buying up homes in residential areas in order to rent them to groups of unrelated adults, with all of the deleterious ramifications of that sort of ac­tivity. 
(3) 
Enclosed with this letter are xeroxed copies of the April 1, 1974 Supreme Court decision in Village of Belle Terre v. Boraas, the opinion in Palo Alto Tenants Union 

v. 
Morgan, and the opinion in Rademan v. City and County of Denver, decided by the Supreme Court of Colorado on September 30, 1974. I would suggest that before any further inferences or com­ments be made on the effect of our ordinance amendments, you read them. 

(4) 
There is a serious, indeed, critical problem of neighborhood deterioration in South Bend. Perhaps students who spend four years here cannot be expected to care about this City with the same intensity as do permanent residents. If they do care, perhaps instead of shooting from the hip The Observer staff and Fr. Tallarida would like to study the statistics on the number of houses in South Bend which have been abandoned or demolished in the past year, and the number of himes rented by absentee lan­dlords at outrageous prices, especially to the poor, and who allow these homes to slip will below the standard norm of upkeep. Perhaps the whole City 



should have stayed in the morasf 
of anything goes until there is 
nothing left to save or to 
rehabilitate. Our City can cer­
tainly exist with the students, but it 
seems rather unreasonable to 
demand that it exist only for the 
students. 

I agree that " ... (T)he students 
need to improve relations with the 
people of South Bend." Our neigh­
borhood organization intends to 
keep up the contacts with Notre 
Dame students that have already 
been established, precisely in order 
to attempt to improve such 
relations. 

Finally, I assure you that, 
personally, I have been nothing 
less than a 100 per cent Notre 
Dame supporter. I have also 
chosen the City of South Bend as 
the place to permanently live, 
work, and raise my "family". 

have, in short, a deep interest in 
and concern about both com­
munities. Can vou say the same? 
\'ours in Notre Dame and South 
Bend, Hobert J. Konopa 


ALPP Review 
Dear Editor: 

As a Senior on his way to med school, I applaud the current review of the Preprofessional Program by the Academic Council. An improvement and expansion of the Preprofessional Studies Deaprtment, as an ad­visory and resource center, is called for. Abolishing the Science Preprofessional Major would not, in my opinion, weaken the overall program at Notre Daeme. 
An overemphasis on grades, science courses, and statistics <admission and or rejection) has made the current Notre Dame Preprofessionaloffice both stifling and restrictive. It means nothing to say that 70-80 percent of our applicants are acdepted to medical school, when prospective ap­plicants are "weeded out" in ridiculous numbers at Notre Dame. It isinterestingto note than fewer ND students will be accepted to medical school this year than last. 
I realize that the problems of medical education are nation­wide, that our program has helped many students over the years, and that close contacts have been established with some medical schools. I sense, however, that Notre Dame undergraduates are not being exposed to the field of medicine in the proper light. 
Medicine is more than a bilogical science -it is a major social activity, and as future physicians, we must somehow see beyond our next exam and our continual anxiety over "getting in." It is possible that leadership and in­spiration from a an expanded and more innovative Preprofessional office will aid us in this task. 
Ernest F. Ribera 
the observer 

Night Editor: Maggie Waltman Assistant Night Editor: Bob Brink Layout Staff: Chip Spina 
Day Editor: Bob Radziewicz Copy Reader: Ken Bradford Features: Val Zurblls 

Sports: Bill Brink Typists: Anne Peeler, Barb Norcross, Janet Carney, Nell VIII, Karen Hinks Star Typist: Karen Hlnks Compugraphic: Chip agai.Jl 
Night Controller: Tim & Howard Picture Screener: AI Ad Layout: Tom Whalen 
Editorials: John (2-mlnut) Amantea & that girl from Boise 



{ Tuesday, April__12.!....1:..:..97:..::s'------~t:..:.h.:..:e=--...::o::..:b:::..=.s-=e-=-r....:.v..::e~r----=-5 



baseball--once nd's most popular sport 
martha fanning 
'.Dame has participated in the NCAAIn the Southeast room of the LaFortune Tournament ~ight times. In 1957 they
Student Center basement are several 
finished fourth in the College World Series. 
photographs of Notre Dame baseball teams. The pictures are located in the glass display 
They played in it the first year of its case and date back to the year 1886 con­existence in 1949 and from 1951Hi0 Kline's tinuing until1930. The collection, a gift from team competed in the tournament five the Notre Dame Club of Hawaii, with in­consecutive seasons. Voted to the college dividual pictures the gift of Mr. Edward Baseball Hall of Fame in 1968, Kline started Kerwin of illinois, display a little bit of the 1975 season with a career winning Notre Dame Baseball History. percentage of .599 on 535 wins and 422losses. 
In the late 1880's Adrian Anson showed For the members of the team baseball some boys how to play a game called begins in the early fall. Two weeks after the baseball, similar to rounders which was start of the first semester practices com­played with a stick and ball by any number mence. Subject to weather conditions, the of boys. At that time Anson was attending practices continue for one to two months the University and later he became a star usually ending in the latter part of October. with the Chicago Cubs. With this in­The October break included in the 1974-75 troduction to baseball before the turn of the calendar served as the cut off point this century, Notre Dame went on to send forth It wasn't until 1892 that any outside Dame lost to the University of Vermont in year. some outstanding college teams and over contests were held. In the only game of the middle of the trip. The team is free in November and fifty major league players to the American their first varsity season Notre Dame Over the years Notre Dame has had a December. The spring training starts 
and National leagues. defeated Michigan with a score of six to total of fiteen baseball coaches, fouteen of approximately one week after students 
four.

Students demonstrated considerable whom served between 1897-1933. In 1934 return from Christmas Break. The team interest in the game participating in several In the first thirteen years of outside Clarence J. "Jake" Kline became head conducts practices in the hockey dome of interhall competitions. In a Notre Dame competition the University team, operating coach of the University's team and is still the Athletic and Convocation Center until 
Scholastic published in the late 1800's the without an official coach for eight of those occupying that position in this, his final the weather is favorable in preparation for game was commented upon: years, won ninety-nine games and lost forty­season. the Spring Trip. We are pleased to see the game receive such eight. Some of their better seasons in this Kline, a graduate of Notre Dame, played In previous years the Spring Trip, held attention at Notre Dame; it is certainly the period occurred in 1900 with 23 victories in baseball here in 1915, 1916, and 1917 acting during the school break, has taken the team best exercise a student c:an take after 16 games; 1902 with 16 out of 20 successes; 
as captain of the team in his last year. to Tulsa and New Orleans and this theyspending many hours in study-halls; and we and 1903 with 17 victories out of 22 attempts. 
Turning down an offer from the Pittsburgh traveled to Texas. always find those who indulne in this game, From 1906 through 1908 inclusive Notre Pirates in the National League, he chose Since their beginning the Notre Dame 
returning to their studies, after recreation Dame had outstanding success on the instead to go overseas in 1918-19. When he Varsity has increased from one game in 1892 
diamond. During these three years the
hours, with bright rosy races, and in­returned from overseas he was named to forty six in 1975. Fourteen are held during 
vigorated new life, so that th•ey are prepared teams won a total of sixty games while Director of Prep Athletics at Notre Dame, a the spring trip and the remaining games to meet hard lessons and overcome them. losing only nine. Each season was marked 
position he held for two years. He played are played within tne space of ap­Competition between the various halls with twenty victories, with five losses in and managed a team in the Southern proximately one month. 
1906, three in 1907, and only one in 1908. The
was stong with games and championships Minnesota League in 1922, in California for Whenever anyone mentions sports at 
held during the fall and spring months. 1908 team, whose season was the greatest the 1923-24 seasons and from 1925-30 spent Notre Dame, football 'immediately comes single season in Notre Dame baseball
Comparing the two seasons the Scholastic seasons playing and managing different to mind, and the so called "national past­
history, made a wing through the East that
published this comment about the clubs in Utah State League. He returned to time" is rarely noticed. Baseball here at superiority of the spring matches in 1892: year and defeated such teams as Williams, Notre Dame in 1931 as freshman coach, a Notre Dame, however, also has a long and 
These had ever been characterized by a Dartmouth, Boston, Fordham, Syracuse position he held until being named head outstanding history and although football is 
snap and a dash that never failed to evoke a and Georgetown. The only defeat of that coach in 1934, replacing George Keogan. the favorite · now, baseball was the most 
large crowed or enthusiastic spectators. season occurred on that trip when Notre During his years as head coach Notre popular sport originally. 


lacrosse--club sport in a varsity world 
gregg bangs 

This past Sunday something approaching players wear helmets that have protective president said. "Besides those sources, we Notre Dame athelete. "One hears that the a breakthrough occured for the sport of metal masks .across their faces. also ran a concession stand in the fall as well atheletes who come here are usually betterLacrosse in the midwest. It didn't happen The sport has always been strongest in the as selling programs at all football games." than average, and I do think there is 
an 

on a playing field or in an athletic director's east, particularly in the Maryland, Long Caron added. In the past, the club requires abundance of good atheletes here. At oneoffice but in a newspaper A newspaper and 
Island and Finger Lake area of upstate New non-first year players to pay a due, not so time we had three high school quarterbacksyes, yes. a newspaper. A sport that is as York. Not surprisingly, the strongest this year. "We've been pretty successful on our team--all starters. The fact that kidsunfamiliar to an area as Lacrosse is to the college teams also come from these areas. financially this year. Besides helping to pick the sport up quickly is indicative of ourmidwest is always looking for publicity. 
Johns Hopkins, Maryland, Navy, subsidize the spring trip to Florida, we've club," he said. Fogerty would seem to be aUsually, this publicity is found in newspaper Washington & Lee, Virginia, Army, Hofstra, covered a lot of the club's expenses through perfect example. Never having played the articles and pictures. For what has to be the 
first time the history of midwest lacrosse, Cornell and Cortland State (N.Y.) have our various money raising ventures" he sport before he got here, he is now the 
pictures of the sport occurred the same traditionally dominated the sport. It's adds. Caron admits that the club's goal starting crease attackman and one of the ­
popularity has started to grow ever since every year is to leave $200 in the bank for
day in two major midwest papers. The leading scorers on the team. 
an official N.C.A.A. tournament was sanc­next year's club officers to build on.
Chicago Tribune magazine· ran an article However, Bill Foley, who has been 
describling the sport, complE!te with several tioned to the sport in 1971, when Cornell took Th~ loose atmosphere of the club is playing lacrosse at Notre Dame for the 
pictures. The South Bend Tribune the title. The sport's growth is not confined something else that distinguishes it from a better part of six years sees a different 
although they didn't run a story, had a to the east, as it has started to spread all varsity sport. This atmosphere ranges from reason. "Rich O'Leary is one of the biggest 
rather large picture in their sports section over the country, including the midwest. not having mandatory practices to frequent assets the team has ever had. When I got
Bowling Green, last year's midwest varsity team parties. It is quite common for club
The "articles" in both papers had here in '69, the game was more violent. 
something in common which should interest champs, were the nations only major un­teams to take other teams to a party or a bar With Rich, we accent more finesse; less 
Notre Dame students: all of the pictures in defeated team. after a contest. body contact and a lot more stickwork. 
both papers were Notre Dame players. The Notre Dame Lacrosse team was What is it that draws ND students to play Without Rich, this team wouldn't be where it 
Many ND students don't even know what founded in 1964 by Jack Tate. There were lacrosse? For some it is simply the desire to is now," Foley stated. 
lacrosse is, much less know that Notre approximately twenty five members of the continue their high school involvement in the A questions posing the team is -"whereclub that first spring, and everything was sport. Senior Steve Tarnow, a midfielder
Dame has a club team since the spring of does it want to go?" It made a move to go
1964. done by students. Eleven years later, the who was last years leading scorer and most varsity last year that was rejected at one of
club boasts a membership of close to sixty­valuable player was an outstanding high 
the final hearings. Almost everybody on the
five people, a midwest club championship school player from upstate New York. The
What is Lacrosse? 

team has mixed feelings on the issue.
and a coach. same holds true for senior co~aptain John O'Leary himself has mixed emotions. "It
Although he is not officially listed as a Corcoran, sophmore Jay Williams, Mark 
would be good for a few players, t>ut thenLacrosse is one of the few true American 
coach, Rich O'Leary has been guiding the Connnelly, Mark Carberry, and .Jim 
games. It was played by vitually all eastern we'd have to start cutting people. We'd also 
Irish stickmen for the past five years. An Scarola. A few, such as Caron senior co­
Indian tribes and caught on big in Candada, lose the social aspect of the club, like
All-American attackman for two years at captain Joe Meares, and senior Fidele Volpe 
where it is still, contrary t:o belief, con­having parties after games," he stated.
Cortland State, O'Leary spent a semester on had limited experience in high school.
sidered their big game. It has gone through the coaching staff at Cornell before ac­Most of the players start the game when "For the sport itself, a varsity programmany revisions, but the ·game'ls it is played cepting at Notre Dame as assistant director they get to Notre Dame. The reasons are as would be good. We wouldn't have to even now resembles a combination of many of club sports. varied as the backgrounds they come from. recruit. There are a lot of Catholic highsports, including hockey, fielid hockey and "When I first got here, I more or less took For senior midfielder Tom McHugh, it was schools in Baltimore that play lacrosse. I'm 1soccer. 
over all aspects of the club," O'Leary an older brother who got him interested in sure they'd come here if they heard we hadEach team fields ten players; of which relates. "I worked on finances and the game. A lot of people who played in a varsity program. It would also have a big •
there are three attackme111, three mid­scheduling as well as coaching. Now I try to Fisher Hall got senior Kevin Fogerty impact on the Midwest lacrosse. A lot offielders, three defensemen and one goalie. 
leave everything other than coaching duties playing. Tom Mouch, a sophomore, wanted schools are waiting for Notre Dame to goEach carries a stick with a web-like pocket to the club members. It is a club sport." to find something to fill his afternoons up. varsity--when we do, they will," O'Leary 
l
on the end of it. The more offensive the Perhaps sophomore's Jamie Joyce's reason explained.
position, the smaller the stick and the size of Being a club sport probably -shows up is the most unique. "I used to throw Players on the team seem to agree. Joethe pocket. A smaller stick and pocket can most in the areas of finances and social snowballs at cars with a lacrosse stick when Meares' view seems representative of thegenerally control the ball better when it is in functions. Since it is a club sport, the I was young. There was no lacrosse in my whole team. "I like a club set up becausethe pocket (cradeling, as it is called in Lacrosse team is a self-supporting entity, high school when I was there so I wanted to it's good to have everything loose. Varsitylacrosse circles). Therefore, a goalie woul(l. save for a certain allotment from Club try using the lacrosse stick again when I got programs are much tighter and the prac­have the largest pocket, and attackman the Sports. "We got just about $750 here. I also wanted to stay in shape," Joyce tices are also run much tighter. When itsmallest. from club sports this year, which is less than explains. comes to practices, it all comes down to self­The ·object of the game is t(J• shoot the ball what we got when I first got here. That has Since the Irish are a club, they compete motivation anyway.'' he said.
into a 6' x 4' goal. the two goals are located happened because the number of club sports for the Midwest Club championship against One thing this club does know is, club or ­on opposite ends of a field that is ap­has grown since I got here. The money 
such teams as Chicago L.C.<last year's not, they are representing Notre Dame onproximately a little larger than a football alloted to club sports remains about the champs) Columbus L.C., and the Michigan the field. All of them would probably agree field. The ball is moved by either passing or same regardless of the number of teams. 
C. But they also play against varsity with Bill Foley's comment on that fact: "Ofrunning up field with the ball in the stick. The more teams, the less money per in­teams from Bowling Green, Michigan State all the clubs, we have one of the bestThe action is fast. To a newcomer, it can dividual team," O'Leary explained. 
and Ohio State. Over the years, the Irish representations as far as upholding Notre 
appear that both teams are simply running Since the $750 barely covers the cost of have performed quite well against both Dame. I think the University gains more up and down the field. The scoring is also buying equipment, other means of financial 
varsity and club teams. In 1973 for instance, than they give to us."
capable of being quite fast: scores support have to be found. "This year we the Irish went 1o-1 defeating all the varsity If one wants to find out what lacrosse is, frequently run in the teens. As in hockey, received $200 from Alumni contributions teams they faced and only losing to a strong take a trip out to the Stepan fields onethere is frequent stick and body checking to and raised over $2140 from our raffle this Columbus Club. Basically, one can always weekend to experience ND's version­
keep violence seekers happy. However, fall, of which ten per cent went to a multiple expect a good gamt· ire~ ·~.e Irish. besides upholding Notre Dame, it's also one
fighting is rare--probably because sclerosis fund," Rich Caron, this year's club hell of an excitirur llame­
O'Leary attributf'" rldtl of this to tbe 



llo •' ~ " I " " • · •

the obs~iver I TundaY, Alrft 22, 1975
6 

Donations requested 


Gregory to appear 
by Gregg Bangs 
Staff Reporter 

Dick Gregory, ex-comedian and presently a lecturer on human rights, will speak on a topic of his choice at Stepan Center this Saturday, April26 at 8:00pm. The lecture is being sponsored by The Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition. Although there is no admission charge per se, a donation is asked for to help cover clearence fees. Whatever profit is made will be sent to aid hunger relief agancies overseas. 
Gregory has spent the greater part of the last five years on the lecture circuit. He visits over three hundred college campuses a year and also frequently speaks to business groups. 
Once a track star in both high school and college, Gregory ~Jer.ame a night club comedian after ~raduating from Southern 
Illinols  University.  Gregory  
became  a  topflite nightclub per­ 
former  and  later  went  on  to  

television as a regular on such shows as "Johnny Carson," the Smothers Brothers," and "The Joey Bishop Show." Gregory gave up the entertainment business in 1973 to "dedicate his life to human rights." He felt "the late hours of night club life interfered with his potential for human service." 
Gregory's career in public service has taken in a myriad of events. Throughout the sixties, he 

at Stepan 

was quite active in civil rights demonstrations. He ran as a write­in independent candidate for the mayorality of Chicago in 1967 and for the Presidency in 1968 in the same manner. 
In the seventies, he has best been known for his marathon hunger fast!i. He has fasted for reasons running from the Wars in 
Southeast Asia to protesting the\ drug problem in the United States. 
Although he has not announced a specific topic to speak on, Gregory's lectures always touch on human rights and morality. "There is a great social revolution going on in America today," Gregory stated in a recent college address. "And the wonderful thing auout this revolution is that it is not 
• Black against White. It is simplyResident response varJ es right against wrong. The number 
Gne problem in America today is . not air and water pollution. It is 
on SMC dorm experJment moral hepollution," concluded. 
by Anna Monardo Staff Reporter 

Augusta Hall, concluding its first year as an experiment in dorm living for 1St. Mary's seniors, has received varying evaluations from 
its present and future residents ,
as well as from student govern­ment representatives from the hall. 
According to Marty Kabbes, one of the original organizers of the experiment, this year the program involves forty-five seniors. The dorm is governed lby the same rules for parietals and drinking as the other dorms are, however, it is each student's responsibility to enforce the rules. 
There are no hall directors, resident advisors, or hall officers. As a safety precaution the dorm is always locked, but each resident has her own key andisfree to enter or leave at any time without checking at the hall desk, as in other dorms. 
As she explained, the theory behind the Augusta experiment is that students, given the op­portunity to establish their own rules, will be more willing to follow them. This type of procedure allows for a freer atmosphere than is possible in a conventional dorm. 
-
"No one is watching us and we are responsible for what we do. It's great to be able to come and go as 
we please. It's the next best thing to being off campus," commented one resident. 
Kabbes explained, "AugustaHall is an experiment for what may be incorporated into the other dorms in a few years. When this happens, it will probably involve juniors' and seniors. This is a process which takes time." 
Concerning next year, Kabbes said, "the program will remain basically the same in theory. In practice, a few small changes will have to be made. Improvements concerning the procedure for mail delivery are necessary. This year Augusta was not included in the mail budget and students must take turns in getting the mail from the post office." 
Also, she noted that Augusta has had to depend on LeMans hall a great deal for the delivery of flowers and packages which are normally received by the hall staff. 
When asked about any possible changes which they would 
recommend, a few present 
available April 18-27 
an lp recording of 
SCOTT JOPLIN RAGS 
performed by William Cerny chairman ND Music Dept. 
proceeds to The Music Scholarship Fund 
on sale at the Huddle in residence halls 
ill.~~~-~.'~.~ag f.~~-$4 
residents suggested more recreational facilities such as pool tables, a color T.V. and vending machines. 
"One student commented, "If there were showers on the top floor 
it would be perfect."

In general, residents contend that the program has worked well and to their satisfaction. 
One of the main concepts behind the Augusta Hall experiment is community . Because there is no official leadership or ad­ministrative body, problems must be resolved in meetings of the entire group. 
This procedure of group effort was used for room picks for next year. Augusta Hall was not in­volved in the usual lottery. In­stead, a meeting was held in which room selection was determined according to individual preferences. 
Patrice Rooney, a future Augusta Hall resident commented, "The room picks didn't work perfectly. The meeting lasted three hours and there were a lot of arguments and rough srots. But in the end, itworkedout al right. It was nice to see people com­promising for the sake of others." 
Another present .Augusta resident said, "Basically everything has been fine, but I'm a little disappointed with the com­munity idea. It hasn't worked as well as I expected because there are still cliques and I suppose there always will be." 
Moira Londergin, Augusta Hall's student government represen­tative, said,"for the most part, the pro~ram has worked just like a family. Under the circumstances of Augusta Hall you get to know the fo.rty-five people you are ~iving w1th better than you would m the usual dorm situation. 
Devine to appea!' On WSND show 
Notre Dame coach Dan Devine will be the last guest for W.S.N.D.'s question and answer show, "Freshman Focuspoint.'' The program will air Tuesday, April 29 from 10-11 p.m., 640 on the AM d1al. 
Devine will field any questions from interested listeners who call the station at 6400. 

Gregory was asked to speak at 
Notre Dame by Fr. Frank Gar­tland, head of ~he ND World Hunger Coalition. Orignally, he was going to speak at the second rice and tea meal which was held 

HERE IS YOUR REASON TO BUY NOW. 
Only $2666ManufacturerssuggeSied POE 
• 
REAR WINDOW DE-ICER 

• 
FRONT WHEEL DRIVE 

• 
FRONT DISC BRAKES 

• 
RADIAL PLY TIRES 

• 
ALL VINYL INTERIOR 



MICHIANA IMPORTS 
217 Suuth LtfJyetll' Ulvd. l!O Oixit•w.ty Nurth South Bent!, lndi.uM Ru..c.·l ..md, lndiJtht Phunl': 234-6051 Phone: 272-971{0 

( & ,, 

52920 U.S. 31 North 8 (at Cleveland Rd.) 
price. Soi.les tax, licens-e fees, registration, inl~nd frei.g~r and dealer preparauon add1t1onal. 
• 
RECLINING BUCKET SEATS 

• 
FLOW-THROUGH VENTILATION 

• 
RACK AND PINION STEER IN(; 

• 
PLUS MANY MORE STANDARD EQUIPMENT f[ATURE'> 



§llliJB 

at the beginning of this semester 

but due to a prior committment h~ llll••••••••••••••••••••••••l
could not make it. 
·­



FAMILY NIGHT AT BURGER CHEF. 
TUESDAY 4-8 PM 
Roast Beef Sand. Ham & Cheese 
' 

Cheeseburger 
Big Chef 
Super Chef Fun-Burger 
-

REGULAR SPECIAL 
894 744 794 654 404 284 794 594 894 654 404 284 
Fix your own burger the way you 
~r Two locations .. like itat our new Works Bar.
-~ 

1716 N. Ironwood Help yourself to lettuce, tomatoes, 
,,,., 

onions, relish and pickles. Ifmustard and catsup are all you want, it's there for you too. Have as much or as little as you want at the Burger Chef Works Bar ... and build your burger just the way you want it. 
~· 

presents




Cinema 
Akira Kurosawa's 

RASHOMON 
Tuesday and Wednesday 8 and 10 pm ....Admission $1.00 Patrons Free 
I 


Tuesday, April 22, 1975 the observer 
Drinking bill backed 


Student 
by Pat Cuneo Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame Student Government has organized a student lobby for the passa~te of an 18 year old drinking bill to be in­troduced to the state of Indiana next January. If successful, the bill would become law in .rune of 1976. 
Tom Black, director of the committee, said the chances are very good that the bill will be passed because "the arguments are logical for it to be written into law." Black added, "If we do our homework in developing effective and intelligent arguments along with being persistent, the bill will get passed." 
The committee's actual duties involve contacting several state legislators in the hope that they will back the bill. The group is also currently in the process of researching various issues on why the bill should be signed. 
Members of the committee in­clude Jerry Lingenberger, Kevin Dickerson, Vince Moschella, Cress Hizer, Kevin Bouffard, Ray Fernandez, Mike Sheehan and Mark Frieden. 
Black believes the biggest problem facing the bill is getting it 

lobby organized 
placed in the right State com-.,.____________ 

mittee. Las t year, a similar bill 
was rejected by the House Public 
Policy Committee. 
Black also serves as a 

representative to the Indiana 
Student Association, a student 
tlobby group for tl!e state which is 
based in indianapolis 
. 

Student Body President Ed Byrne and B~ack wi~l attend a speci~l executive sessiOn to be held th1s Sunday in Bloo~ingto~ for the 
purp?s~ ,of ~~~cussmg t~e association s pos1bon on the bill. This _Pas~ year the association enthusiastically supported the work of. former . S~P . Pat McLaughlin on the drmkmg 1ssue
and Black believes that the Student Government may work through the group this year if their attitudes 
BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY 
Good Potential Income No Age Barrier Full or Part Time Contact D. A. Doxie 503 N. Blaine Ave. South Bend, IN 
(219) 234-4469 

are the same. 
McLaughlin covered much ground in his work on the bill that was rejected. He emphasized the inconsistency of Indiana State law which literally "lets 18 year olds do anything . except . _dri~~-" McLaughhn held the prmc1ple We can only expect our young adults to 
treat alcohol in a responsible manner if we encourage that responsibility while they are young." 
Black stated that Gove_rnor Ot~s 
Bowen will support the bill once 1t 
passes the Assembly, "Bowen," 
cited Black, "strongly believes in 
the consistency of law as he stated 
Students Faculty 
Classical Music Enthusiasts: WSND-FM , the Fine Arts Voice of Notre Dame, has openings for announcers for next faU. 
Meeting for all those interested Wed April 23, 7 p.m. 361 O'Shaughnessy 

~i~nJh~iisJ1~9Z72~e~le~c~b~·o~n~c~a~m~p~a~ig~n!;·~"-~==========================:;
~ 

Why take the time to roll with two papers, and lick twice for one smoke? With double-width e-z wider you roll one, I ick once and you're off! There's no faster easier way to roll your own. And there's no better gummed paper made. So roll with e-z wider and get off on the double. 
© 1975 robert burton associate.\. Ltd. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Need ride to Detroit May 2. Call 1132 
Need 2 housemates for next y~ar· Good deal . Good house. Call Frank 234-6535 
Men & Women-Earn $150 per week or more selling Valeer Home C:are Products in the south Bend area. Can continue part-time next lfall. Training provided in the Hos'tess Partv and Solicitation s<lles programs. Call afternoons, ex<:ept Mondays, or call Saturday mor­nings. Thomas Distributing 256· 0547 
Student for light office worl~ & telephone sales. Salary & c>Om· mission. Apply 224 W. Jeffer!;on. Corner of Lafayette St. Room 313 
Student for light delivery, ex­cellent pay. A.A.A. Advertising. Apply 224 W. Jefferson corne1· of Lafayette. Room 313 
Need ride to Cleveland Thursday. Call Tom 8943 
Need ride to Purdue this weekE~nd· Call 3580 
FOR SALE 

For Sale-1971 Yamaha street bike· 200cc -5 speed electric start -)972 Ford Torino-2 Dr. Hardtop white vinyl top-Both in very good c:on­dition. 232-6488 
2 bedroom home 1 mile from N.D. Call 272-9990 
For Sale: Stereo -Panasonic­quadraphonic model AM-F M radio-bought year ago. Excellent condition $145.00 Liz 4798 
Bar refrig. excellent condition­wood grain exterior. Phone 255­8027 S60 
Like New-Wilson Walker Cup golf set. 4 irons, 2 woods, puttrer, Golden Bear bag. 1534 
Olds' Cutlass '67 small engine, good mileage 8 track tape, SS<IO. New Remington 12 gauge pump magnum-$120. Call 284-4008 or :!34· 8679 
B,icycle 24 inch S15. call Walt 31108 after 11:30 P.M. 
NOW RENTING CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS. STILL SOMI CHOICE 1 AND 2 BEDROOM APARTMENTS AVAILAILI. CALL 272·1441 FOR IN· FORMATION OR STOP OVER AND SEE THE MODEL APART­MENT AT 54585 IRISH WAY 

Stereo for Sale Desperately need the monev-best offer takes all. Steve 1403 
Bar with built in refrigerator · Beginner golf clubs with carrier · Auto S-track tape with 4 speakers & in-out mount. Needs minor repair· to highest bidders. Gil 1060 
For Sale: Pioneer PL-51 turntable with Audio Technlca AT-12S cartridge. $180.00 or best offer. Call Ed 1389 or 1487 
NOTICES 
Need ride to Dayton this weekend Tom 2129 or 8957 
Need stuff shipped to Long Island? Call Tom 1728 or Greg 1751-Cheap rates 
Summer storage, Dry, clean, safe, reasonable. Rates pick up & deliver at dorm. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004 
Management Trainee To $14000 Ready for a new career? We are interviewing for a management training program that will allow you to earn $25,000 or more in 5 years while representing our top team o.t financial specialists in Equities, Insurance, Mortgages and Tax Shelters. Send your resume' to Charles M. Newbanks 120 w. LaSalle Suite 906 South Bend, IN 46601 
Need ride to Exit 12 Ohio Turnpike (Akron) this Friday. Call Bob-1152 
ROBIN TROWER & JOHN MAYALL IN CONCERT AT WINGS STADIUM IN KALAMAZOO, TUESDAY APRIL 22 AT 8:00 P.M. TICKETS NOW AT STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE AND BOOGIE RECORDS. A BAMBOO PRODUCTION 
handmade turquoise jewelry from Santa-Fe . just above wholesale prices -no middleman. Call 287­0076 after 7 N.Y. Met Club baggage truck to L.l.-N.Y.C: Call 3007 or 1986 for information 

RIDE-A-BIKE FOR THE RETARDED on Sunday, April 27th 
THE FRONTIER DRIVE-IN IS NOW OPEN. LOCATED ON STATE RD. 23 BETWEEN KROGER'S AND THE DISTILLERY. GOOD FOOD AT REASONABLE PRICES. 
Typing-experienced in Senior Essays, dissertations, etc. Reasonable, accurate. 232-5715 
Men and women with two years of college left! Want to invest six weeks this summer and assure yourself a second career as an Army Officer upon graduation? Earn approximately $500.00 this summer and gain self-confidence! No obligation. For information contact CPT Weimer at 283-6265 about Army ROTC Basic Camp 
Need help with term papers, reports, etc? Write Michiana Reference Service for rates and details. P.O. Box 6247 South Bend, Ind. 46615 
ALWAYS THE BEST IN GAS AND MECHANICAL WORK NOW AT TOM'S UNIVERSITY STAN­DARD, CORNER OF IRONWOOD AND STATE RD. 23 10 PER CENT DISCOUNT TO N.D. & SMC STUDENTS ON ALL PUR· CHASES EXCEPT GAS. 
·Typing. editing, dissertation specialists IBM special symbols. Linda's Letters. 289-5193 
Free room in exchange for child care. Details negotiable. Phone 232-6362 
Will do typing, experienced Call 233-8512 
Sell your books before the 1rv~h. Paperbacks & texts. Buying hours 2:30-3:30. Pandoras Books 
FOR RENT 

Furnished· House & apartments & small house near NO. Summer only 272-6174 
Furnished apt. 503 W. Jefferson Duplex 3 rooms second floor. Gas heat, furnished. 289-6307, 234-0596 FOR RENT: Houses near campus for summer. Rent low and negotiable. Ideal for summer school students or anyone staying for the summer. Phone Marty Quirk at 289-3751 
2 rooms-private-sso. Kitchen, rides. 233-1329 
Three bedroom house close to NO May 15 to Aug. 15. Carpeted and paneled living room-complete kitchen-washer & dryer all utilities included S1SO per month· Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004 
House for rent for summer: 4 bdrm. Excellent location-287-7981 
All private 3 rooms up for married graduate student. All Utilities. Near Memorial Hospital. No rent in return for aiding parents to help lift lightweight son and daughter to and from wheelchairs, etc. No nursing. 232-9128 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: Pocket lnstamatic behind Stepan. Bill Higgins 1681 
Found: Strake Jesuit College Prep ring. Call 3795 to identify 
Lost Car keys -SMC picnic Thurs. Call Fritz Bruening 8954-Reward 
Found: Watch on the North Quad. Thursday night. Call Andy 8624 
Lost: Monogram Jacket lost at Campus View Party Saturday-call 
277-0017 
LOST-Omega watch at Tug of War. Reward. Call 8816 
PERSONALS 
Dear Mel. Anne, Marv Ann (Doo­Dool 1 hope you enjoyed those pizzas. I.B.R.!!! 
Thanks for the flowers Ecnedurp. 
Mot 
Sean. 
Please smile at me or I'll wilt. 
Brown-eyed Girl 
Bear and Ted, end helpers from 6B, congretulationsl Greet lob on An Tostall Tlnv Dancer 
To the Roman Pontiff: The Seventh Seal is opened. The Four Horsemen Ride! Anti-Christal Coalition 
Five Foot Two Eves of Blue Would like verv much To have a date with You. J.M. 
Anyone knowing the whereabouts of my pants, please return so I have something to take off before the next rugby game. Six Mill 
MJB Happy Birthday and all our love for a fantastically successful day. M&P&M 
Cruel one, Happy Birthday and Welcome to the club! How about two oldtimers getting together and doing it "for 
the Suite" ILYH, Kid 
Congratulations John & Bob--the biggest egg-heads I know. You're good eggs but a little cracked. 
Mona T., Happy 21st Birthday Love, Miracle 
Once there was a girl. as pretty as 
could be Who loved to bump and sing and dance and par-tv This girl we always talk about her name is Mona T. We'd like to wish her a happy birthday from the Boys of Grace 8C 
Cranberry League Champ: Providence sure woonsocked your jets, 11-11 Amazon 
Miss your number match last Saturday at the picnic? We've got till May 21 for the free cheeseburgers. If your number matches 109, 110, 161, 191, 828, 1004 call 8075 to loin a cheeseburger party at McDonald's with 5 girls. 
Lou, Ted scores tonight with Mary. He wants Moore. 
... 

the observer T~, Aprll22, 1975 
.WAA varsity proposals denied 
by Val Zurblls h 't d t 00 I 't · f t' · · d th
went to every girls dorm and ahd a meeting ave wa! e. ong ~s 1 IS or par IClpatlon an ey 
The Women's Athletic Association's (WAA) proposal to raise four women's athletic clubs to the Varsity level was denied by an athletic board yesterday. Women's fencing, tennis, golf and basketball were refused varsity status. 
.. Dom!pick Napolitano, director of non-varsi.ty sports, At~leti~ Director Moose Krause, Colonel John Stephens,Ass1stant Athletic D1rectorand Father Edmund Joyce, executive vice-president in charge of atbletlca, stated, "There ":ill be no varsity sports for wom~n at the.present time." 
The reasons g1ven by the b~rd f?r not grantmg vars1ty .status were that there would be too much fmanc1al burden of the Athletic funds and the present wom~n's sports have not complet~ the regular course of development. Th~s co~rse of develop~ent co~s1sts of three years of club status plus sustamed mterest to attam Varsity status. 
Submits Proposal 
TheWAA talked to as many people as possible on the proposal before it was submitted to· the Athletic Board on March 21. WAA President Jane · Lammers, Secretarv Ellen Hughes and Miss Astrid Hotvedt, the advisor, ' 
'75-'76 student basketball' ticket prices announced 
In an interview in the October 18,
by Bill Brink 

1974 issue of the Scholastic Father
Sports Editor 

Joyce commented that, because of
ACC Ticket Manager Michael 
a legitimate student complaint, the 
Busick announced yesterday the 
· full price increase would be
prices and ordering procedure for 
1 delayed, and effected in two steps
1975-1976 season basketball tickets. 
instead of the one complete in­
Prices will be $28.00 for lower 
crease.

arena and $21.00 for bleacher 
" ... we decided not to make the 
seats, and ticket reservations will 
total increase effective until 1975­
take place this spring, beginning 
76. Thus, the price increase will be 
April 29th. 
stages than one,"
Students will receive ordering in two rather 
said Joyce.

instructions and an IBM card in 
Busick pointed out the price of
the mail this week. The IBM card 
the student tickets is still only half 
and a student ID are required 
that of the public reserved seat,
when making ticket orders. In­
and that, unlike many schools,
coming freshmen will order tickets 
Notre Dame does not charge a
by mail this summer. 
student activity fee.

The price hike represents the 
There will be an allottment of 500
completion of the full increase 1 
bleacher seats for St. Mary's
proposed last October. At that 
I students, at a price of $25.00 per

time season tickets were going to 
seat. "This represents a 40 per
be sold at $28.00 and $21.00, but 
cent discount on the face value of
Father Edmund Joyce, Chairman 
the ticket," said Busick.

of the Faculty Athletic Council, 
Busick attributed the rising costs 
settled for a compromise in the 
of maintaining the basketball
prices because of student protest. 
program as the cause of the in­
The compromise set the charge at 
crease, pointing to higher cost of
$22.00 for padded seats and $18.00 
transportation, equipment, grant­
for bleachers. 
in-aids, and ticket printing as

"The general public prices went 
significant factors. "The money

up $1 per game across the board 
allocated to the basketball

last year, said Busick. "Because 
program increases every year,"

of the compromise, student ticket 
he said. "We have to generate

prices went up fifty cents per 
income to meet our rising costs."

game. Student prices are only 
going up the fifty cents that they Complete instructions for or­
dering tickets are as follows:

dido't go up last year." 
This information is of importance to all Notre Dame students who will
• be upperclassmen next September and to those Graduate Students who will return next semester. The Manhattan game is during Christmas vacation and is not included in the Student Season Tickets. Student admission to the fourteen games will be optional, but will be available on a SEASON TICKET BASIS ONLY. The cost of a reserved seat season ticket will be $28.00 for the lower arena and $21.00 for the bleachers, one per student. THIS AVERAGES TWO DOLLARS AND ONE DOLLAR AND FIFTY CENTS PER GAME as compared with the public reserved seat price of $4 and $3. The mechanics of seat assignment will be the same as last year. BEGINNING AT CENTER COURT AND EXTENDING ONE WAY I<'ROM THAT POINT, THE LOWER ARENA SEATS WILL BE ASSIGNED FIRST, BEGINNING WITH SENIORS. THEN, ALSO EX­TENDING ONE WAY FROM CENTER COURT, THE UPPER ARENA SEATS WILL BE ISSUED AS NECESSARY. About 4,000 seats will be held for students. Next year's upperclassmen and returning Graduate Students will have first opportunity to reserve student tickets. Incoming Freshmen will order1their tickets by mail this summer. Here is the procedure: Enclosed you will find a yellow, pre-punched IBM card containing your name and ID number. Bring this IBM card, your ID card, and a check, payable to University of Notre Dame, to the Ticket Sales Window on the second floor of the Athletic and Convocation CPnter on the following schedule <DO NOT FILL IN THE AMOUNT IN ADVANCE>: 1975-76 Seniors: Tuesday, April 29 Juniors: Wednesday, April 30 Graduate and Law Students returning for ninth semester or higher: 
.. 
Thursday, May 1 Sophomores: Friday, May 2 If the information on the above-mentioned IBM card is incorrect, or the 
card is not yours, bring the error to the attention of the Ticket Window clerk. 
Issuing hours for the above days will be 9:00A.M. to 4:00P.M. Students wishing to sit together must purchase tickets consecutively. (The ticket Office will accept four ID cards and payments from one individual -not more.) 
You will be issued a receipt with which to claim your ticket at a time and place to be announced next fall. You must reserve your student season ticket this spring. We cannot take your order next fall. 
MARRIED STUDENTS desirous of purchasing adjacent tickets for their wives may NOT do so this spring. Instead, they must waive their class priority as stated above and wait until next semester, at a time and place to be announced. Ticket for the married student will be $21 plus $24.50 for the spouse's ticket. 
Please read these instructions carefully and follow the purchasing 
schedule so we may minimize your inconvenience. MICHAEL BUSICK Ticket Manager 00 the varsity proposal to discuss the final draft. The aren't anx1ou~ to :ova1t any longer," she commented. meeting last night grew out of this submitted "The athletic hierarchy was made aware of the proposal. day-~o-day .~robl~ms of becoming a club," Moore 
The WAA decided who they would have the meeting conh~ued, And 1t seemed that by the end of the with. Joyce, Krause, Stephens and Napolitano were meeh.ng the men were mad~ more aware of the chosen because they most directly affected the prachcasl oroblems we face. proposal. lnterhall Sports 
The normal procedure for obtaining the varsity Moore took a strong stance for women's interhall level is to petition the Athletic Board. Then the sports as well. She would like to see high-competitive proposal must go through them and the athletic sports for women and have more attention drawn to director <Krause) before it is finalized. women's interhall sports "to expand and bring more 
Hotvedt said she was hoping that more specific women in for the enjoyment of sports and also as a things would be defined, such as how many wins and recruiting ground for club and varsity sports," she losses, practice times, difficulty of competition, and said. nationally ranked people on the team would be taken "One of my basic beliefs is that athletics are im­into consideration for the status. "I want to develop a portant to every female's development and it is plan for the future; what steps it takes to get to the important to bring as many women as possible into top," stated Hotvedt. sports to have the experience not encouraged in the 
Also brought up at the meeting was the question of lower levels of schooling," Moore remakred. having salaried coaches. The men suggested that Hotvedt stated, "We're pleased that the ad­students could be coaches and managers through the ministration acknowledged the WAA in discussing Student Employment plan. "It was their alternate to the <varsity status) plans. We appreciate the con­paying coaches," remarked Hotvedt. sideration and detained disussion towards women's 
"I think the meeting was a real eye-opener to the sports taken by the administration." men," commented Cindy Rebholz, fencing captian. Lammers said the meeting was a step in the right "They hadn't realized that women had progressed as direction. "All those concerned in women's athletics far as they had, how organized we were, how really were gathered in one room talking about the competitive we are and how hard we actually problems," she commented. worked," she added. Lammers felt that more meetings would develop 
Carole Moore, the tennis coach, was a little from this initial meeting and that varsity status is disappointed at the meeting. "Women in general still being considered. 
LaCrosse Club beats Madison 
started Saturday morning by the outskirts of Madison. But theMost athletic teams, whether defeating their "A" team coun­change of sites did not keep thethey be professional or collegiate, terparts from Madison in the final outcome from varying astreasure the home court ad­University of Wisconsion football Sandy Cochran's team won theirvantage. There's something about stadium 14-3 in a game that was first game of the season byplaying on your own territory that locally televised. "The third and clobbering Madison 15-1.
inspires a team to play better. 
fourth quarters showed our Scoring-wise , the two playersHowever, the Notre Dame capabilities," O'Leary com­who took it the most to MadisonLacrosse Club hasn't thought 
mented. "We moved the ball and were sophomore co-captainsmuch about the home court ad­played really well considering Tommy Bingle and Rich Kresock. 
vantage this season as they've 
we've been hurt by injuries." Both ended up with 6 points for thedropped all three of their Stepan Move the ball well was exactly day; Bingle on 4 goals and 2 assists Field contests. In fact, Coach Rich what the stickman did in the and Kresock with 5 markers and 1O'Leary's stickmen seem to second half as they outscored assist. Mark Flanagan also tipped treasure going on the road where Madison 9-1. The leader of this the hat for the Irish, scoring 3 goals they've won five out of six con­blitzkreig was senior attackman while Bill Salmon had a goal andtests. The Irish last proved their Joe Meares. Playing out of his an assist. Gregg Bangs and Steve affinity for travelling this past attack position, Meares collected 3 Waterman each added one goa,l.
weekend when both the "A" and goals and 2 assists in the first half Both teams also had games last "B " teams travelled to Madison, 
to finish with a game leading 7 Thursday and the results were notWisconsion and swept their points. as good as the Madison games.
respective games against the For the "B" game, the action The "A" team was beaten byMadison Lacrosse Club. 
shifted from the football stadium Michigan 12-4. "It was a mightyThe Irish "A" team got things 
to the John F. Kennedy school on poor game." O'Leary said. "We were just flat. It was probably the worst game of the season for us." 
Goal
ND 75-76 Home 
scorers for the Irish were Steve Tarnow and Bob Thibodeau with
Basketball Schedule 
one each and Tom McHugh, who had two goals. Saturday November 29 KENT STATE 
The "B" team was involved in a 
Tuesday December 2 VALPARAISO squeaker with Hope College which Saturday December 6 TEXAS TECH saw them lose in the last two 
Saturday December 13 ST. FRANCIS seconds of play, 7-6. The Irish had Saturday January 10 MANHATTAN come from a 4-2 halftime deficit to 
Wednesday January 14 BALL STATE 
take a 5-4 lead. The teams then WPdnesday January 21 ST. JOSEPH <IND.l 
traded goals till Hope pulled it out Saturday January 24 UCLA at the end. Tom Bingle had 2 goals Wednesday January 28 DE PAUL and 2 assists to lead the Irish. 
Saturday January 31 MARYLAND Other scorerrs included Rich 
Saturday February 7 DAVIDSON Kresock, Jamie Joyce, GreggWPdnesday February 11 VILLANOVA 
Bangs and Roger Monforton. Saturday February 14 WEST VIRGINIA 
The "A" team has a gameSaturday February 28 MARQUETTE 
against Ohio State tomorrow at Monday March I WESTERN MICHIGAN 
4:00pm on the Stepan Fields. All are invited and there is no cost. 
THE CHEAP TRUCK IS BACK! 
The Cheapest Way to Get Your Baggage to New York (L.I.) 
Providing Dependable Service to the Notre Dame Community Since 1973 
OFFERING TWO CHOICES OF PICK UP LOCATIONS 
(Roosevelt Field & Walt Whitman) For Information & Sign-Ups CALL: Leo at 1152 









