

President to addressConvocation 
by Terry Keeney 
presidents. The luncheon is sponsored by University acting president of St. Mary's College; and various Observer Editor President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. University officials and deans. The President will be joined by other key officials in Students will be given preferential seating for the 
President Gerald R. Ford will address today a his Administration including Alan Greenspan, Convocation. Special Academic Convocation, and receive an 
chairman of the Council of Economic Advisors; Frank The citation of the honorary degree to be conferred honorary doctor of laws degree from the University of Zarb, administrator of the Federal Energy Ad­upon Ford cites the manner in which he came to office. 
Notre Dame. 
ministration; and Ron Nessen, press secretary to the The citation reads in part:
The address in the Athletic and Convocation Center 
president. These officials will brief the media "The University of Notre Dame confers the honorary 
will highlight a day-long appearance on campus by the 
executives at their 12:15 luncheon. degree oLdoctor of laws, honoris causa, on a man who 
President, the third such appearance by an American 
has came to the presidency in a way in which no other president in the history of the University. man ever has. He came by appointment, not election. Ford is expected to arrive at Michiana Regional Closed Arrival He came not at a time of national felicity, but as the 
Airport at 10 a.m. and proceed to the Academic Con­result of what he himself described as 'a national 
vocation, scheduled for 11 a.m. in the ACC. The President's arrival at Michiana Regional Air­
nightmare'."
port will be closed to the public. The presidential
Ford's tentative schedule includes an informal The citation notes Ford's style of simplicity and 
meeting with about 50 students and faculty, luncheon motorcade will pass through downtown South Bend on directness and singles out Ford's clemency program
with some 40 Midwest media executives, a meeting the Jefferson Street side of River Bend Plaza. South which, though satisfying the demands of Right or with a gathering of Indiana and Big Ten college and Bend mayor Jerry Miller has requested the public to Left, "still offers and has given a way back from a university presidents, and a regional press conference. assemble at the River Bend Plaza to greet the limbo of alienation to thousands of young people," the Ford's visit will be climaxed by a working dinner President. citation states. with five of the nation's governors. The President is The President will receive an honorary doctor of The President is scheduled to meet with an informallaws degree from Hesburgh at the Special Academic
scheduled to leave South Bend about 10 p.m. to return gathering of students and faculty at noon. Student and 
to Washington. Convocation. The Academic Procession will begin at 
faculty members of the Academic Council and student 
10:40 a.m. with the combined faculty of Notre Dame 
members of the College Councils. Attorney General to appear marching in academic garb. At 12:30 Ford will have lunch with about 40 media
Included in the processional party to be seated on the 
executives from the Midwest in the Monogram Room
platform are: President Ford, Levi, Hesburgh, Ed­
The White House announced Friday that Attorney of the ACC. He and several key advisors will brief the General Edward H. Levi will accompany Ford today. mund Stephan, chairman of the Board of Trustees; press executives in the fourth in a series of meetings
.Levi, former president of the University of Chicago, Governor Otis R. Bowen (R-Ind.); Rep. John with regional media. The meetings are designed to until his appointment this year as Attorney General, Brademas <D-Ind.); Senator Vance Hartke <D-Ind.); give the executives the opportunity to question the will address the luncheon of college and University Senator Birch Bayh <D-Ind.); Dr. William Hickey, President and his advisors on policy matters. 
Students organize walk-out of Ford speech 
by Don Reimer couraged them to write their own shaped by the input of various 
so we left peacefully," remarked Mr. David Sparks, director of the 
Staff Reporter letters." said one member of the people," said one student. "Ev­one student. library, confirmed that all groups Since the formal announcement protest group. "People have erybody has shown his own The monitor involved com-who use the lobby must obtain last week of President Gerald various reasons for joining the initiative and added his own mented "library policy is that no permission in advance from him. 
protest, such as the economy or energy," added another.
Ford's visit to campus today, a selling or soliciting is allowed in, "All groups in the past have come small group of students have Ford's action concerning Cam­They also emphasized that the the lobby without permission of the . to me personally and I have worked to voice their discontent bodia," he continued. movement was spontaneous. "We director of the library." authorized their presence," said with the appearance. These The organization was initiated didn't seek support, it was just "Groups usually apply a month · Sparks. students are responsible for the by several students concerned with received from concerned students or so ahead of time," he noted. "I Organizers of the protest ex-distribution over the weekend of Ford's visit. A column which who saw the note in the Observer. was just enforcing the policy. I pressed their feelings concerning various handouts urging a walkout appeared in last Friday's Observer It was a spontaneous reaction," don't have any animosity towards the walkout planned for today. at Monday's academic con­asking for support for a protest, noted one organizer. the students," he continued. "A walkout is a way of showing vocation. as well as collection of invited students to a meeting on One of the organizers described When asked why he tore down our feelings of dissatisfaction with student signatures on a letter to Friday afternoon in Grace pit the purpose of the protest as an the sign, he simply replied that it Ford's policies," remarked one University President Fr. Theodore which was attended by ap­effort to "establish a dialogue should never have been put up student, while another called it "a Hesburgh. proximately 40 students. between members of the univer-without permission. pe~ceful means of showing our 
The letter to Hesburgh expresses At this meeting it was decided . sity community. There should be a Voicing his personal view of the feelings." discontent with the awarding of an what the protest should take the question raised," he said, "about protest, the employee stated, One student pointed out that a the entire visit." "Why should the students show boycott would be inadequate
It was also noted by various animosity towards the President? because it would "give the im­members of the group that the There are other ways of getting to pression that the convocation has protest was intended to make Ford, through Congressmen for the support of the entire univer­
people aware and to arouse their example." sity." consciences. Eighteen-thousand handouts, including calls for a walkout and 
ND students questioned
the letter to Hesburgh, have been printed up and distributed at various locations throughout 

about Presidential threat 

campus _<;tudent signatures for the Hesburgn letter were solicited in by Patrick Hanifin There they were met by Pears the dining halls, the Huddle and the Campus Editor and three Secret Service agents library on Sunday, and by 8 p.m. who informed them they were last night approximately 600 being considered as "prime persons had signed, according to Four Pangborn students were suspects," photographed and took protest organizers. questioned Friday by Notre Dame background files of them. 
On Sunday afternoon at ap­Security and the Secret Service in After the questioning, during proximately 1:50 p.m. an incident connection with a threat made which they explained they had not occurred in the library lobby in­against President Gerald Ford. been present when the call was volving a library monitor and two According to informed sources, made, the students were told they protesters attempting to solicit the threat was traced to the were now considered as "prime 
• signatures for the letter. The students' phone and after witnesses." students had set up a table in the questioning they were deemed Pears said he had "no com­lobby opposite the main entrance "prime witnesses" by Secret ment" on the case. A Secret and posted a sign with Fr. Service and Security. Service source similarly declined Hesburgh's name on the window. The students live in a quad to comment saying it was against 
Approximately ten minutes after formed from two doubles at op­Service policy to do so. He also the students began to solicit posite ends of a hallway. One refused to say whether the Service 
.~­signatures a library monitor who source close to the situation said had installed equipment to trace STUDENTS DISTRIBUTE leaflets at various campus locations ad-was at the check-out" desk came out the call was made from the phone calls. vocating a mass walk-out during Ford's speech this morning. (Photo by and informed them that they must unlocked bedroom of the quad. Dean of Students John Macheca Chris Smith). leave. According to the students Three of the students were outside stated that the Secret Service has honorary doctor of laws degree to form of a walkout at the Monday involved, the monitor said that the hall and one was in the the primary investigating role in President Ford under the pretense morning convocation, and a small they were in violation of a library Pangborn study lounge when the · such cases and that Notre Dame of support of the entire University group of volunteers was appointed policy requiring permission to call was made. security would only assist as community. Opposition to the to organize the walkout. Another solicit in the lobby. Notre Dame security received , needed. "If the Secret Service University's handling of the visit is meeting was called for Saturday Students said that the library the call which was traced to the were to find out who made such a also expressed in the letter. afternoon at which plans for the employee said that the letter was Pangborn room. The following call and they were to decide that it 
Members of the group em­letter were presented and "demeaning to Fr. Hesburgh" and day, after notifying the Secret was just a prank then the phasized that the letter contains discussed by those present. that they should have more respect Service agents with the University might enter the case in simply a basic statement con­Several organizers of the for the President. Following the Presidential advance party, Ar­a disciplinary role," Macheca cerning the President's visit and protest emphasized that there exchange, the employee began to thur Pears, director of security, said. the handling of the convocation. was not any specific individual or rip down their sign, according to called the students' room and Only two of the four students 
"Each person has their in­group who was leading the the students. asked them to come to the Icould be reached and both refused dividual feelings and we en-movement. "The protest has been "We didn't want a confrontation, security office. to comment. 




Monday, March 17, 1975 

Thompson views national scene 
Dr. Hunter S. Thompson,' political affairs editor of Rolling Stone, offered a personal view of \ the national scene in a talk at ~ Washington Hall Friday night. : 
"Altbough:scheduled to lecture on the "reconstruction of American politics", Thompson quickly told the capacity crowd, "I have no speeches to make and nothing to say, but we'll start off slow and see what hapoens. That's my style." 
Through the next hour and a half, Thompson fielded a wide variety of questions from the audience on subjects ranging from the future of politics to his personal drug experiences in Africa. 
Dr. Hunter S. Thompson
When asked for his views on the 
(Photo by Andy Waterhouse)
future of American politics, 

Thompson said, "I think we're in a he's just incompetent. But in times very critical situation. I think '76 like these, incompetence can be may be the last presidential very dangerous."election as we know it." Thompson, who holds a doc­
In addition, Thompson stated, torate of divinity at the Church of "I've just come from covering a the New Truth, was obviously well three day convention of the known to the audience who ap­
nation's top liberals where the plauded his statements with ap­major problem turned out to be proval.'should we find a candidate and Although Thompson has been in then build the issues around him' journalism for years, working for or 'should we decide on tbe issues such magazines as the New and find a candidate later?' " Yorker, Esquire, and The National 
The lack of leadership is a key Observer, it was not until he wrote problem in America according to • his book "Hell's Angels: A Strange 
Thompson. He felt that there isn't 1 and Terrible Saga of the Outlaw a single potential candidate who Motorcycle Gangs," that he gained 
can gain the support of the national attention. 
1 

American people. With his second book, "Fear and 
· Thompson felt pessimistic about Loathing in Las Vegas," Thomp­the future way of life in America as son perfected his style of writingwell. "I don't think you people will which he terms "Gonzo jour­have as much fun in the next ten nalism." "Las Vegas" also years as I've had in the last ten." brought Thompson a position with 
Thompson commented on Rolling Stone magazine, heading
President Ford, saying, "I don't their national affairs desk. 
think Ford is a bad guy. He's not While with Rolling Stone he wrote 1 outright vicious or evil like Nixon, his third book, "Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail
Scheible-Morelli 
'72." 

Though firmly locked intocalendarfavored political journalisll)., Thompson seemed hesitant about covering
the '76 presidential campaign. "ICalendar proposed by Grace hall don't think I could go through aresidents Pete Morelli and Bill Ford-Jackson election withoutScheible is favored by 64.3 percent going completely crazy." 
of the faculty and 90 percent of the Thompson's latest article ap­students, according to survey peared shortly after Nixon'sresults obtained by the two. 
resignation and since then his soleThe poll on the proposed effort has been an aborted attempt calendar, which features a Labor to cover the Ali-Foreman fight inDay start and a week-long Zaire. In reference to the article, Thanksgiving· break, was taken Thompson replied,from the same random list utirized everyone's allowed to f---up once~by Academic Commissioner Jim year."
Ambrose in his January survey. 
The Observer is publiShed dally
Scheible and Morelli now hope to 
during the college semester except
obtain ten signatures from 
vacations by the stuaents ot 
University of Notre Dame ..,d St. Mary's College. Subscriptions 
members on the Academic Council 
requesting the calendar proposal 
may be purchased for
be put on the agenda of the next 
semester ($16 per year) from The 
Council meeting. Another ten 

Observer ilox' Q, Notre signatures would be required to 
Indiana 46556. Second postage paid, Notre Dame,
obtain an emergency meeting 
46556.
of the Academic Council. 

MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES 
* 2 FILMS 
* 
BOOKSTORE * 
LIVE FLOOR SHOW 
1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
. 

AL~ 282-1206 FOR INFORMATIO 
IN THE TOWN & COUNTRY MINI MALL 
BEFORE YOU HEAD OFF TO THE SLOPES, 
CHECK OUR SPECIALS 
25% OFF Ski Clothing Hats, Gloves & Socks ALSO­
HAVE YOUR SKIS TUNED 
REGULARLY $1 0.00 WITH THIS AD $8.00 


THINK SNOW "SPECIALTV SPORT EXPERTS" 

Gartland, Hunger Coalition to ask Ford lor increased aid 
by Bob Mader  I two million tons" of food already  
Staff Reporter  allotted in this year's relief  
J program, and extending the  
Rev. Frank Gartland, Director  1 program into next year. Hesburgh  
of the Notre Dame World Runge~  ., called the speech "one of the  
Coalition, has given a letter to Fr.  clearest calls for help to the poor  
Theodore Res burgh, University  he's ever seen." ·  
President, to be presented to  Hesburgh also commented that  
President Ford, asking the  Presidents Johnson and Nixon  
President to increase food  never appeared on university  
assistance to hungry nation$.  campuses during their terms in  
Hesburgh stated that he plans to  office. "This is something that just  
give the letter to Ford during the  hasn't been done before," he ex­ 
President's visit today.  plained, "and I'm pleased that he  
When intHviewed yesterday,  <Ford) has decided to come to  
Hesburgh said he had just finished  Notre Dame."  
reading Ford's speech, and the  Gartland's letter begins by  
world hunger issue "is a major  thanking Ford for his concern for  
aspect of the speech." He also  the world's hungry people. "We  
commented that Ford plans on  encourage you, Mr. President,".  
"cranking i~ over and above the  the letter continues, "to make bold  

Faculty Senate approves provost evaIuation form 
by Katie Kerwin Staff Reporter 
In a special meeting last Thursday night, the Faculty Senate. drafted and approved a faculty evaluation form for the evaluation of the University Provost. 
Acting on results of the faculty referendum,in which 70 per cent of those who responded indicated that they favored evaluation of top administrators by the faculty, the Senate drew up an evaluation form for this purpose. 
Administration officials are evaluated every 5 years by a review committee appointed by the Academic Council. Fr. James Burtchaell will have held the office of provost for five years by the end of the academic year, and he will be due for evaluation. The Faculty Senate decided that a faculty evaluation should be made before the Academic Council acts in the fall. 
The Faculty Senate has drawn up a set of 9 or 10 general questions covering various areas of ad­ministrative performance. Ac­cording to Professor James T. Cushing Senate chairman, the form is general enough to be easily modified for use in evaluating other administrators. 
Faculty will be asked to rate the administrator as 'Excellent, Good, 
Fair,  Poor.  or  No  Opinion'  on  
questions  dealing  with  style  of  
administering,  availability  to  

faculty, and other similar questions, Cushing said. The final question would ask faculty whether they feel the present provost should continue in office. The meeting Thursday was 
Santana to play during An Tostal 
Santana will perform on Friday, Aprill8 at 8:00p.m. at the Athletic and Convocation Center. The An called specifically to deal with this matter and the evaluation form was the only item of the agenda. 

At the next Faculty Senate meeting, on April 2, the exact wording of the preamble and the cover letter explaining the form will be decided upon. 
The Senate will also decide to whom the evaluation survey will be given. The referendum recently completed was sent to all full-time, part-time, and visiting faculty. Cushing noted that many visiting faculty did not return the referendum. 
A decision must also be reached regarding what will be done with the results. Cushing stated that the evaluation's findings will probably be sent to the formal review committee on the fall, to the Board of Trustees, and of course to the provost himself. Cushing felt it is unlikely that the results will be made public. 
The evaluation forms will be distributed by about mid-April. 
The main business of the April 2 meeting will be dealing with a proposal for a new appointments and promotion system. 
This proposal was distributed at Thursday's meeting and will be discussed at the April2 meeting. If it is agreed upon, it will be put on the Academic Council agenda. 
Probe uncovers pricing frauds 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -A two­pronged federal probe of petroleum pricing activities during the 1973-74 Arab oil embargo has alleged widespread conspiracies to fraudulently overcharge con­sumers millions or perhaps billions of dollars, it was learned Sunday. Sources familiar with the in­vestigation said there was a possibility organized crime was involved. 
Tostal concert was confirmed ..-----T-O_D_A_Y_&----, 
yesterday by Rob Kilkuskie, 
Student Union Concert Com­missioner. Tickets will go on sale Wednesday at the Student Union and A.C.C. Ticket Offices and will sell for $5.50. $4.50 and $3.00. 
GET THA.T "STOP ON A DIME" FEEL WITH RELINED-BRAKE BONDED PASS. ·SilO~.~~ CAR ONLY PER_. 39 ~ SHOE BUY 6 QT. OF OIL. GET OIL FILTER FOR 1.89 MOTORCART <PASS. ONLY> 
1101 E. MADISON 
:4.1~ THURS., floffmon bros "FRI. 8·6 SAT.B-3' • SUN. 9-12\ 
TOMORROW' 
t
0 

2 PM & 8 PM 

!!A cliatillfUished 
cW•••allc~nt." 
.:..~ -.Afler 'Ool'k 
~· 15.00 Eveninp .­
13.50 MatiMe. . ($2.50 faf S.niOC"Citlnni/Studentl at ~J Available atlilr 

, 
'AFT.._,T~ket holdefa .,...~ct. 




RIVER PARK 

decisions to commit the United States to give yet more food as quickly as possible to our starving brothers and sisters in those countries designated by the U.N. as 'the most seriously affected' by the scourge of famine." 
The letter expresses concern about the distribution of food and urges Ford to "insist on its delivery to the neediest nations rather than to nations ofpoliticalor military interest to us." 
The World Hunger Coalition realizes, the letter points out, that such food aid is a short-term solution to the world's food problem, and urges education of "whole citizenries" to the nature of the problem . The letter to Ford concludes by stating that a change is absolutely necessary "in the fiscal practices of men and nations, a cessation of 'business as usual' as we know business." 
Gartland expanded upon this point. "The distance is increasing between the haves and the have­nots," he commented . "People will become savage. Hungry nations fell angry, depressed, and hopeless about U.S. economic policies." 
As a result of increased food aid 
to the hungry, Gartland said the 
Coalition "expects more people to 
be saved and put back on their feet 
so they can save their own coun­
tries." 

Gartland said he and the rest of 
the Coalition are very grateful to 
Ford for the amount of food 
assistance already given. "Ford 
has nearly doubled the amount of 
food in response to Public Law 480 
of theCongress," he said."Also PL 
480 was ammended this year so that 
not more than 30 per cent of the 
food to be given to nations we have 
political interest in." 
Therefore,Gartlandexplained, 70 
per cent of the aid must be sent to 
"Fourth World" countries which 
are totally helpless, "countries 
like Bangladesh which can't even 
pull themselves up by the 
bootstraps." 
The purpose of the Notre Dame 
World Hunger Coalition is 
threefold, according to Gartland. 
Their main purpose is 
educational. "We hope to raise 
people's consciousness about 
world hunger." Gartland said. 
"The Catholic Committee on 
Urban Ministry has called equal 
distribution of food an 'obligation 
of justice'." 
Secondly, the Coalition takes 
positive action such as the recent 
"rice and tea" meals and projects 
to raise money. 
The third activity of the 
Coaltition is prayer and liturgies 
such as Hesburgh 's Mass for world 
hunger, Gartland explained. 
I 
Monday, March 17, 1975 
'ROBERTSON'S 
\ BEI\JJTY SALON_ 
1: 211 S. MICHIGAN STREET 
. :-SOUTH BEND-_ 
CONCORD MALL -ELKHART 
f;:::======::;:::;::;:~ 

DAY 
+GREEN BEER +LOW, LOW PRICE 




--FAT 
0' WALLY'S 
2046 SOUTH BEND AVENUE SPECIAL HOURS FOR ST. PAT'S NOON· 2 A.M. 
The OBSERVER Is Loo~ing.For A Few Good Men Or Women To Fill The Following Positions lri The Business Department
------------------------*-----------------------­
BUSINESS 

IMANA(;ER 
' 

*A Salaried Position 
Excellent Practical Experience in Running a Business 
*Applicants Should Be ·Accountancy Majors or · Have Some Accounting 
Experience 
*No Newspaper Ex­-perlence Is Necessary 
DVERTISING 

MANAGER 
• 
A Salaried Position 

• 
Excellent Opportunity 


'· for Anyone Interested In Managing the I m­portant Function of Ad Sales for The Observer 
*Some Sales Experience Is Preferred 
the observer 
NO TEASING. NO HAIRSPRAY. 'JUST GREAT HAIRCUTS ;AT THE TRIMME.RS., 
\I
\I 
\' 
I' 
DVERTISIN 


'SALESMEN, 

I \ 

*Compensation on 
a \ 
Commission Basis 

. j 
*Work Your Own Hours 
*Your Earnings', Potential Is Limited Only by Your Ability to Sell 
*Great Practical Ex­
. perlence for any Marketing Students or Anyone Planning on Going Into Sales as a Career 
--~-----------~--~­
SUBMIT YOUR RESUME TO 
.  
·Bob logos  on or  .;1  
Box Q, Notre Dame  before March 17  

-

A flurry of clashing emotions and opinions over the purpose and validity of President Ford's visit to Notre Dame has engulfed our campus. To avoid chaos and derive maximum benefit from the free expression of differing views, it is im­portant that an orderly perspective be maintained. The right to hold and ex­press one's own viewpoint is a basic freedom that cannot be removed, but respect for dissenting opinion must always be upheld. 
The University has emphasized the academic nature of the President's visit today. Mr. Ford will be presented an honorary doctor of laws degree at a Special Academic Convocation. University officials have compared this ceremony to a commencement exercise, and consequently have prohibited students from participating in any demonstration or political protest, deeming such action inappropriate for the academic occasion. 
There is a great deal of evidence, however, that the President's visit is much more than an academic event. The arrival of five governors and 65 media executives, invited by the White House to meet here in working session with the President and his top advisors, points to the fact that Mr_Ford's visit has a very real political significance. 
The certificate from the University bestowing the honorary degree upon the President makes specific reference to the unique conditions under which he came to office, the simplicity and directness of his political style, and the role he played in establishing a Vietnam clemency program, all of which have political significance. Finally, the very nature of the office which Mr. Ford holds causes every public statement he makes to have a political impact. 
Because the President's visit to Notre Dame is very definitely a political as well as academic affair, it is not surprising that the response to his coming is also very political. There are those who support and those who criticize Mr. Ford's political decisions and philosophy. 
There are those who favor and those who resent awarding him an honorary degree. 
This contrast of opinions is not only understandable but also very healthy. American democracy depends heavily on the interaction of varying opinions. 
In accordance with this basic principle of American government it is only right that all members of the Notre Dame community be allowed to freely express their views of the President's visit and his administration's policies. The University's ban on any demonstration of protest violates the basic political rights of free speech and peaceful assembly guaranteed every citizen under the First Amendment. 
A number of persons are organizing a walk-out of the President's address to demonstrate their dissatisfaction with his policies. We are neither advocating nor condemning this action. We do, however, strongly support their right to conduct an orderly demonstration, just as we sup­port the right of others to demonstrate their approval of Mr. Ford's policies. 
We would, however, caution all parties to remember that the right of free ex­pression is not unlimited. It is restricted by rules of common courtesy and respect for dissenting opinion. Each person must observe the rights of others as well as his own. If this is done, the free expression of varying views is both justified and healthy. 
The Editorial Board 



P.O. Box Q 
Sound..Qff On Walk-Out 
Dear Editor: 

After attending an 
organizational meeting for the 
walk-out on President Ford, we 
feel that we should give the Notre 
Dame community a better insight 
as to what is happening. The main 
objective of the walk out is to 
express disagreement with the fact 
that President Ford is going to 
receive an honorary law degree. 
Although a few students take 
offense to this action, we feel that it 
is actually superfluous. The 
reason that President Ford is 
receiving this honor, is probably 
due to the dignity of the office 
which he now holds. 

We also feel that the walk out 
will be a futile attempt at ex­
pressing the students' opinion 
because of the lack of a sufficient 
means of explaining ther op­
position. While a select few are 
aware of their motive, we believe 
that the vast majority of those 
witnessing the event, including the 
media, will misconstrue the real 
basis for this action. 

At this point in time, the only 
plans for exposure of their motives 
are through the Observer. In order 
for their opinions to be portrayed 
accurately, we feel that they 
should have made provisions to 
express their concepts to the news 
media, who undoubtedly have 
something to say about this event. 
The action of these people 
leaving the presentation, is seen to 
be by us, as a prejudgement of 
what our President has to say. 
Even though some people may 
disagree with him, it is unfair to 
President Ford and to themselves 
to ignore what he presents to us. 
As students of this university, we 
would endorse actions taken 
against the administration due to 
their handling of this affair. As 
citizens of the United States, the 
university is illegitimately at­
tempting to deny us our freedom 
of expression. They are justifying 
their actions by claiming that this 
political action is an academic one. 
President Ford will obviously receive national exposure while here at Notre Dame. If the university is successful in its at­tempts to suppress our freedom of expression, it would appear that the President has the support of the entire university. This would instill upon the American people the idea that the entire Notre Dame community posesses the same supportive opinions towards the President and his policies as the administration would desire us to have. 
Although we do not endorse the walk out as presented to us, we would be more than willing to participate in a protest against the administration, but only if done properly. We do not feel that walking out on the President would be interpreted as an objection to the administrations actions. 
We therefore urge you not to walk out on the President, but to try and find alternative meansof expressing our dissatisfaction with the administration. 
Sincerely. Jim Jennewein, Jr. Gregory Nucci Richard D. Schroeder Mark Stroble 
Dear Editor: 

It is out of a sense of loss of American idealism and hope that persuades me to walk-out. The times are not healthy. The "state of the Union is not good." 
A President who believes in a misguided sense of American decency is not what is needed. The spirit of America is dwindling and dying. Drugs have become our painkillers. Academics have become our escape. We cannot 
t 
cope with the reality which is 
ourselves. 

The land in which we live in has 
been ruthlessly fought for. We 
have aborted the native American 
his right to determine his own 
destiny. This land has been stolen 
for the sake of equality, for the 
sake of freedom, and to a large 
extent, in the name of God. We 
have deluded ourselves from our 
real reason: Self-interest. 

The time has fallen upon us whereby we have been shown that self interest leads to ruination. A president has been dethroned. A war was fought with American troops and technology but we came out of it losing our pride and American lives. The faith in our system is dwindling as we realize that it is corrupt. 
I do not wish to honor a President who believes that America is on the right road when America is not; a President who is willing to support Southeast Asian govern­ments in prolonging wars that must end. The people must be allowed to determine their own destiny. We have already tried to determine their destiny for them, but we have failed. We were wrong in trying. 
It has been faith in our civilization that has caused our belligerence. Our civilizatiom has been interested in its own progress but opposed to the in­terest of other people. The policies of the President reflect this con­cept. 
The economy stumbles -The President proposes tax rebates for the wealthy to stimulate progress in the economy, while the poor continue to suffer. 
Cambodia stumbles --the President proposes aid which will promote the progression of American self-interest. Progress has made us powerful, but people have been crushed because of it. 
It is difficult for me to see how Fr. Hesburgh can confer an honorary degree upon this man whose policies have not been conceived with proper moral understanding. There is emptiness in my heart. I must do something to show my distress in the Presidency, the nation, and its policies. I will walk-out with those who also believe that a new American spirit must be developed. And that is my hope. 
Sincerely, 
Hobert Belli 

When darkness of the day recedes the light cannot be bright enough to spend the tears from every face Nor is there bread enough for every Asian child who settles into darkness hungry-­crying for the crumbs of backyard 
. birds So if, in truth, a walkout signifies your own-departure with the next election Please Walk slowly then And arrange the flowers on the sill While straightening the pictures 
. with your other hand, and remember that humility articulation and sincerity alas--are cherished still 

Thomas O'Neil 
the observer 

Night Editor: Rick Blower Assistant Night Editor: Marti Hogan Layout Staff: Art Johnson, Michael Chanatry, Kathy Skiba Day Editor: Bill Sohn Copy Reader: Pat Hanifin Editorials: John Amantea, Fred Graver Features: Tom O'Neil Sports: Greg Corgan, Bill Brink Typists: D. Roos, M.A. Corr, Nell VIII, M. Tobin Jim Landis . Compugraphic: Kevin Murphy Dual Night Controllers: M.J. Foley, Dave Rust Late Typist: Dave Rust 
Picture  Screener:  Albert  D'An­ 
tonio  
Ad  Layout:  Bob  Tracy,  Tom  
Whelan  

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. Monday, March 17, 1975 the observer 
5 

home. Just because a man is 
president does not mean he 
deseves an award from the most 
prominent Catholic University in ISO: 
America. Richard Nixon was 
Dirty Hands 
And Faces president also. No Backing
Fr. Hesburgh is using this 
Dear Editor: "academic convocation" to fur­Dear Editor: 
ther his own political interests as 
Mom and Dad have invited well as those of Gerald Ford. A I was scandalized to see the Uncle Jerry to dinner and for a man who is an avowed liberal on name of the Inrernational celebration on Monday. You have civil rights is attempting to rig this Student's Organization used by been invited, but you are being presentation to put himself in the Tim O'Brien as a means of getting warned not to come with dirty best light possible. He has only support for his open letter that hands or with unscrubbed faces. invited a certan select group of appeared in Friday's Observer. Uncle Jerry is not of the family people to speak with Ford, and he If he would recall I personally favorites, but he's a part of the is not allowing us to dissent inside called him at 10 p.m. Thursday group; you know. Anyway, he'll the ACC. Many students have night to make my position about probably try to pull the wool for reacted strongly against our the letter clear. I recall telling him everyone. asking for a walkout, but what else that as an international student I 
It's so much fun living in this can we do? If we stay at home, could not get involved in any type great land, let's go out there and how will Gerald Ford or the nation of political activities, and that win, etc., well, we all are big boys know that we are dissenting? therefore I wasn't endorsing his and girls now so I think that maybe To those who say that we would letter, to which he replied in a that is, if our parents won't mind, be dishonoring the president, I can manner leaving much to be just maybe we ought to tell Uncle only say to you that a man who sat desired. Jer that while other people like on the Warren Commission and Perhaps he was unaware of the hearing bright stories, we like endorsed its fraudulent findings legal implications and penalties of hearing truth, facts, but most of all deserves no respect from me, any such involvement on my part we like to see action-action where regardless of what his title may be. or on the part of those students it counts, results when they are And the same goes for a man who whom he alluded to my needed, and in general fact-facing says one thing about civil rights representing. Student visas are realism when it comes to the but does another thing when it suits granted contingent on denial of family affairs. his own interests. any such involvement, as well as 
Just because our family has it are scholarships and grants to better than most of the others on international students. My moral
Philip Quadrini 
the block, that doesn't mean that and legal responsibilities to this we can ignore them, or just go country and the students of my ahead and flaunt our size and organization are very clear in light 

Ivory Tower
wealth; no, Uncle Jerry is living of this factor. under the biggest delusion if he Further, I could obviously not thinks that we are like the other represent the opinions of all

And Crayons
people in our home. If the rest of members of my organization 
DOONESBURY 
1 by Garry Trudeau 
MR. KISSINGERI MR. 
K!SSINGt'!?!... SIR, }WlXJN'TKNOIUMe,l BUT IIJ LIKe 7lJ PR£­seNT Y()(J WITH THIS Sf'tfCI/Il WmON OF 11'1011/IYEt£15"7He PRINCE"/ 
/ 


Editor: 
what is done is done. We have 
the members of our family, and of our home don't think that I have anything worth listening to well then this is just one more stupid memo. 
llalfbaked and dissapointed, name withheld upon request 



Lawless Degree? 
Dear Editor: 
I do not object to the visit of President Ford but to his being awarded an honorary law degree merely because Fr. Hesburgh has decided to do so. This is a Christian university, or so we have been told, and to receive a degree here means one has furthered the humaneness of our nation. Where can it be shown that Gerald Ford has done this? 
In his 25 years as a congressman he never authored a major piece of 
legislation. He gained notoriety as a member of the Warren Com­mission, which from the evidence I have seen, covered up the truth about the assassination of President Kennedy. He even wrote a book explaining why Oswald shot Kennedy, called Portrait of the Assassin. 
As president he has defended the CIA role in the overthrow and death of Salvadore Allende in Chile, and continues to ask for more money in Cambodia at the 
same time he says we do not have sufficient funds to finance the needs of all those who suffer at 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is in response to the opinion section written by Tim O'Brien in the Observer, Friday. 
Just who do you think you are, Mr. O'Brien, to try to shove off your own personal biases on the entire student body? I reject your nearsighted "we students" generalization about supposed mass student dissatisfaction. Who are you to sit in your Ivory Tower, passing judgement on not only the President, but his administration? And to top it off you credit your ridiculous opinions to the"very dissatisfied" students supposedly rising up across the country. 
Wake up, Mr. O'Brien. Your tactics died out with McCarthyism twenty years ago. Maybe you don't realize it, but there are those of us here at Notre Dame that all things considered, feel that the President has performed ad­mirably in leading this country out of the worst constitutional crisis of its history. 
Yet you conveniently leave out the concrete and -positive gains of the administration in your fourth­class witch-hunt. You can't humor yourself forever. 
May I suggest that some responsible person take charge, and see that Mr. O'Brien is given crayons or something the next time his imagination begins to run wild. 
Sincerely, 
Bob Kruse without personally and in­dividually consulting each one of them as I clearly told him Thur­sday night. 
Therefore, his use of the name of the I.S.O. was a flagrant violation which could have profound con­sequences in the International Student community. I, therefore, request the public withdrawal of my "fictitious endorsement". 
Sincerely, Paul R. Romero International Student's Organization President 

No Show 
Dear Editor: 
We the undersigned faculty refuse to lend authenticity to the conferring of the honorary Doctor of Law degree on President Ford. Therefore, we will not attend the convocation. 
Maben Herring 
Ernest Sandeen 
Michael Francis 
Oscar Brookins 
Donald Sniegowski 
Roger Skurski Dolores Frese Walter Davis Cynthia Davis John Garvick 
Sandra Garvick 
Robert Slabey 
James Noell 
Dorothy Manier 
Douglas Kinsey 
James Doughterty 
Claude Pomerleau 
Edward Goerner 
We, as long-time members of this university community, have tried to judge our personal response to the series of events planned around President Ford's use of our campus today. His motivation in coming to the Home of the Fighting Irish on St. Patrick's Day is patently obvious, at least from a public relations stance. A president whose programs are subject to revision almost by the day, and whose popularity is very low, may need a boost from the media by this visit to this place on this day. 
But why we lend our name, academic convocation, doctoral laureate, and facilities is not so apparent. The frenzy of preparations is not without its cost and inconvenience. 
Are we honoring President Ford because he has been a good president, or merely because he is president? If it is the former, then who judged <and judged favorably) his Nixon pardon, his original anti-recession policy and tax rebate that would have favored the well-to-do, his energy policy that would have heavily burdened the poor, his failure to respond strongly and positively to the Rome Conference on Hunger, and now his further involvement in Southeast Asia? If we honor him solely because he is president, then we, this community of senior and junior scholars, have not learned the greatest lesson of Watergate: the office of president is not im­perial and not above genuine critical judgement. Honor and trust do not come automatically to a president, but must be earned. 
Leaving these questions aside, 
decided not to attend. If we did otherwise, we would be hypocritical in lending our support to a questionable celebration. We can understand others not sharing our views or our judgement. 
Mary Dooley Houck 
John W. Houck 
Department of Management 
Disapproval 

600 Strong 
Dear Editor: 
To Fr. Hesburgh 
With much concern, the following faculty members and students of Notre Dame send this letter to you regarding the con­ferring of an honorary Doctor of Law degree on President Ford. 
We the undersigned wish to express disapproval with the University's effort to create: 1) an illusion of overwhelming support for the awarding of this degree upon President Ford; and 2) the impression that the convocation is an academic affair, when its consequences are unquestionably politicaL 
Further more, the contradiction between the human values which this community professes and the policies President Ford has pur­sued offends .our moral sen­sibilities. 
Submitted by 600 ND-SMC students and faculty 

DISCOUNT PRICES TO All 
ND & SMC STUDENTS, FACULTY, & STAFF. Bleachers .......... $3.00 ... $2.00 Lower Arena (end court> ......... $4.00 ... $3.00 Lower Arena (side court) ........ ,$5.00 ... $4.00 Loge & Platforms ... $5.00 ... $4.00 
........,... . 



1974-1975 FOOTBALL 
& 


BASKETBALL 
POSTERS for sale by THE OBSERVER See the display in !the Huddle 
& the Observer office 
Monday, March 17, 1975
the observer 
the persistence of st. patrick's day 
edward j. cron1n• 
8 pack of 7-Up or Pepsi only  
$1  (plus deposit) with purchas~ of  YOUR PHONE. FOR GUARANTEED  
any Medium or Large Pizza. '  PIPING HOT DEEP DISH PIZZA.  

Monday, March 17, 1975 
--·-the observer 7 
For '75-'76 
TAX ASSISTANCE PROGRAM 
for free help with your
SMC student aid outlined 
by Pattie Cooney Contributing Editor 
Recently, Dr. William Hickey, acting president of St. Mary's College, announced in a letter to the parents that the Board of Regents approved a $250 increase in student fees for the 1975-1976 academic year. Currently fees are $2 450 for tuition and from $1,180 to $1:460 annually for room and board. 
"Even with the tuition increase students with forms in by March 1 will be assured the same amount of aid as last year, provided we get the federal funds we need," ex­plained Sr. Dorothy Marie Langlois, Director of St. Mary's financial aid office. "However many applied this year that did not last year. Any additional funds will be for new applicants rather than more funds for those already receiving aid," she added. 
All students seeking any type of financial aid must file a Parents' Confidential statement and a St. Mary's aid application. When filling out the SMC application for the student must indicate which type of aid she is seeking and must have a cumulative grade point average of 3.0 to be eligible for a scholarship. Scholarships and grants are not paid back. 
"We expect a $13,000 cut on the National Direct Student Loan for next year. This year we had $43,649 in NDSL funds and are anticipating $31,484 in NDSL funds for next year," commented Langlois. "The college must meet one ninth of the amount," she added. 
Under the National Direct 
Student Loan program a student 
may receive loans up to $1,250 a 
year. No interest is charged while 
the student remains in school. 
Loans depend on the amount of 
funds available to the college, and 
the student's financial need. 
Repayment extends over a ten 
year period beginning nine months 
after the borrower ceases to be a 
full time or half-time student. 
Interest at the rate of three percent 
per annum accrues from the 
beginning of the repayment period. 
"This year we had $15,517 
allocated to the College Work­
Study Program but expect ap­
proximately $17,000 for the 1975-76 
academic year," state~ Langlo!s­
"We are also expectmg an m­crease in funds available from the Supplemer 1l Educ~tional Op­oortunity Grant. This year we .. ere allocated $10,404 in SEOG funds but <>:-e anticipating $12,000 for next year," observed Langlois. 
Accordin~; to the provisions of 
the SEOG program all un­
dergraduates admitted to the 
College who have a subs~ntial 
need are eligible to be considered 
for this award. No particular 
academic attainment is necessary 
for eligibility. The amount of the 
grant is determined by the 
student's nl d for funds. 
SEOG grants must be matched by some other type of aid, such as campus employment, scholarships 
/ or loans. The maximum SEOG allocation for a recepient is $1,500 a year or $4,660 for four years. 
St.  Mary's  College  offers  a  
limited  number  of  campus  
positions  to  deserving  studen!s  

who wish to defray part of their college expenses. Financial need is a requirement for this type of assistance. Students work in the library, post office, art and music studios, offices, science labs and as receptionists. They may earn from $350-$700 a year and are paid monthly by check. There are approximately 200-300 stude~ts enrolled in this program. Unlike the College Work Study program students are paid from college funds rather than government allocations. 
"The scholarship budget was increased by about $10,000. We now have $15,000 in the Michiana scholarship fund," commented Langlois. In the Michiana scholarship program, SMC awards 20 academic scholarships of $1,000 each to eligible students of the Michiana area. 
The Day-Student grant will in­crease from $5,000 to $35,000 and the Middle-Income grant from 
TAX "RETURNS, stop b_y the Student 
· $4,000 to $15,000 both increases 
Government Offices
orovided by the college. In addition the Disadvantaged 
(2nd floor LaFortune)
and Minority grants were in­creased by $2,000, along with an 
MONDAYS 1:30-4:30
increase in a grant for foreign students of $1,050. "The overall THURSDAYS 

2:30-4:30
budget for grants and scholarships 
• is $295,000," stated Langlois. The state scholarship for Indiana state residents enables those 




CLASSIFIED ADS 

eligible to receive a maximum amount of $1,400 a year. In the 
WANTED

past two years the Freedom of Choice clause enabled students to 
Need ride to New York City tor 
spring break. Share driving and expenses. Call 289-3702, Jim. 
receive an additional amount if needed. "However, Freedom of Choice may not be available for 
Need ride to N.J. or NYC for break. 
Cc:ll Greg, 1866.
next year and we have 53 students 
on Freedom of Choice," noted 
Need ride to Miami for break. Will
Langlois. 
pay. Call Frank, 234-6834. 
Students may also seek other aid 
Need ride to Detroit, spring break.
such as the Guaranteed Loan 
Call 1132. 
Program. Under this program 
Need ride to Shreveport, Louisiana;
students may apply for an outside 
spring break. Call Gregory, 8866.
loan from the state or federal government. This program is 
Need ride to Syracuse for break. Call 8434.
intended to aid middle-income families who have difficulties in 
Need ride to Buffalo, Friday, March 
21. Call Tom, 8489.
meeting college expenses. The 
college, however determines the 
Need ride to Chicago (O'Hare) Wed. 
amount needed for eligibility. 

March 19. Call Maryann, 4867. 
Students may borrow a maximum 
Help! Temporary (1 year) home
of $2,800 per year with an 
sought tor 1 or 2 cats. We'll pay tor 
aggregate of $7,500 for an un­
food and vet costs. We don't want to 
put them to sleep. Please call Steve, 232-9428.
dergraduate degree. 
Ride wanted: we gotta git outa dis place. Anybody going to or thru Fort 
Lauderdale and has room for 2 more 
sun bunnies, call Candy, 6922, or 
Laura, 6927.


Attention: 
Need ride to Milwaukee for Easter break can leave Fri-Sat. Call Camille, 5154. 
Freshmen & Sophomores Need ride to MD-DC area. Can leave anytime, March 25-27. Share dollars, 

driving. 234-6405. 
Help! Ride needed to El Paso for break or else 1 spend it in South Bend. Please call John, 8867. 
2 girls need ride to Arizona. Share$ and driving. 5710 or 4219. 
2 girls need ride to Chicago tor break, 4543. 
Desperately need ride to Dayton. March 21. Will share expenses. Call 4697. 
Need Introduction Dill. Equ. tor Math 226. Call Andy, 8233. 
2 nice persons need ride to Denver for break. Will share expenses. Call Mary, 5364. 
-

Need ride to New York City tor spring break. Call 7992. Nancy.
Economics 
FOR SALE 

Hexcel Comps-$150. Olin Mark IV'S 
-$100. Good condition. 8012.
"Meet your Maior" 
Corvus 411 Slide Rule Calculator with memory, trig, and log tables. Call Jim, 289-6166.
Night 

For sale cheap! Refrigerator, oven ­storage cabinet, small tables, 2 living room chairs, small desk. All in
Wednesday, March 19 
excellent condition. Call Steve, 232­9428. 
Two WW low mileage G78-15 tires.

Room 104 
One rim. 3 items: $45.00. Call Fr. Rioux, 6237. After 5 pm, call 6185. 

O'Shaughnessy Hall 
It's for real! Texas Instruments Calculators! SR-51 $175.00 SR-50 90.00 SR·l6 65.00 SR ~1 52.00 Pnces include tax, freight charges
Spring they say is on the way-­
ap:>rox $1.50. Call Tom Weber, 304 and soon it will be Easter Day. 
Grace, 1605. 
-

When you choose a new outfit . you'll surely be a fashion hit. 
NOTICES 

Accurate, fast typing. Northeast
With all our styles from which to choose, 
section South Bend. Reasonable.
we're sure that you will never lose 
Phone 232-0746. the desire to lcok your very best, 
Taken by mistake from Heidelberg
and be among the finest dressed. 
Inn party Fri. A brown suede coat. Please return. Call Frank, 8231. You worry we won't have your size? About this fact we feel quite wise! 
Save money. Buy used books at Pandora's Books. New and used
We carry Juniors, Missy & Half-Size, too, 
books, pipes, papers, magazines,just the one that's right for you. 
and art prints. 
Open up the Senior Club and St7
Town Shop has colors galore; 
Pat's Day right with 5 cent beer at 1 aqua, navy, pink and more. 
pm Monday. So be it yellow, green or powder blue, 
,!IJiarried couple needed tor live-in 
we have what looks the best on you. 
nouseparents tor foster home. Salary. Write: P.E.P., Inc., 3012 S. Twyckenham, South Bend, Ind.,
Yes, we do have layaways 
46614.
We'll hold it for you 60 days Or charge with Master Charge, Bank Americard. too 
!Men and women with two years of college left! Want to invest six
Or use the one we've opened for you. 
weeks this summer and assure
DOWNTOWN atSHAWAKA 
yourself a second career as an Army Officer upon graduation? Earn
255-4158 

approximately $500.00 this summer and gain self-confidence! No
0,. 1>1ift 9-5:30 FdMt 9-f 
l 
·obligation. For information contact CPT Weimer at 283-6265 about Army 
ROTC Basic ~amp. 
Enjoy rugby on St. Pat's Day. See Fighting Irish meet South Bend at 
6:30 under the lights at Cartier tonight. 
• J

Pie Face Unlimited. We will hit any student on campus. Guaranteed. Low rates. Send name and phone and victims name and we Will contact you. Joe Doe, 400 Pangborn. 
FOR RENT 

2 five-bedroom houses for rent next 
school year. Excellent condition, furnished within •12 mile of campus. Call 233-2613. 
Four student houses available, Sept. 
75 . Groups of 3, 4, and 5. Call 287­7818. Mornings before 9:30 or evenings. 
4 or 5 bedroom carpeted furnished homes near Notre Dame available June 1. Phone 1-533-9665. 
2 bedroom furnished homes near Notre Dame. Available June 1. Phone 1-553-9665. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: silver cross at ACC Monday
night, Fisher-Holy Cross hockey 
game. Reward. 3010 evenings. 
Lost: 1 pr. glasses, :silver frames, blue case, initials KL-i\1, near Eng. Aud. Call 1255. 
Lost: bag of acrylic paints and brushes. Please call 234-6699. 
Found: gold, cross-shaped charm between Walsh and Sorin. Call Jerry at 8727. 
Found: near Howard on March 10 ­pair of amber-rimmed glasses in black case. Call 1650 or 1652. 
PERSONALS 

Patty: You have the greatest legs in the world -tor sure! Happy St. Paddy's 
Day. Love, Jelly 
Jimmer, When will I see you again-er? Donner 
To the Girls in B-P: This is the day of the Irish, A day ot shamrocks and lace. This leprechaun sends his message To vote for Lavins and Grace. 
Magic Fingers: Since Roos didn't put in my response on Friday, I was forced to put it in 
today-­
Too Easy; Scrooge McDuck. Boss Man 
Stanford Snowflake, Don't get frustrated . . you'll get 
your  green  bananas  today  to  
celebrate St.  Pat's day ($50! ?J  
Rabbit  

Are you a lonely Domer? I'll be your St. Pat's drinking buddy (under any table). Call Mary Ellen Mosher, 5155. 
Yuke, 
Happy St. Patrick's Day to my favorite NO goalie. Hang in there Big John! 
Raggedy Anne 
~­

Dukie, The cutest little leprechaun on ice. Happy St. Patrick's Day. 
Love ya, Hat Trick 
Hoosier Hysferia is coming. For details, listen to WSND, 640 radio. 
Dear Dad, For everything you've done for us and tor what you mean to us-Happy St. Pat's B-day. 
Love, Mom, George, Maryanne, & Ginger. 
St. Patty's Day Special . See Kathy do her thing live at the TORCH! 
Anne, Although from N.E. are we, In Ireland we wish to be. So very greeen is the land, Home of the Foley Clan. All I really wish to say. Is Happy St. Patrick's Day. 
the 25 cent ring giver 
Tricia, Happy B-day! Nano 
Tricia, 'Twas the luck of the Irish when I met you! Happy 21st! 
I Queer. Hope you're all better. Remembertoi ,, drink plenty of liquids. Boogs 
.J
r 

.... 
l 
1 
~ 

the observer Monday, March 11, 1975 
Irish kayo KU;off to New Mexico 
Face Maryland in regional semifinals in Las Cruces on Thursday night 
by Greg Corgan Sports Editor 

TULSA-Written \in script along the sidelines of the basketball court in Oral Roberts' Mabee Center is a precept which only Oral himself could have conceived. "Expect .a miracle" is what the message says. 
Whether it is meant just for the ORU Titans, who ironically enough happened to be in New York at the NIT Saturday night, or any team who plays on the Oral Roberts floor, Kansas could have used one. Because Saturday night in the first round game of the NCAA tour­nament, the Irish provided their own. 
With Adrian Dantley scoring 33 points, Dave Batton adding 18 and coach Digger Phelps making some miraculous moves himself from the bench, .Notre Dame dumped the Kansas Jayhawks for the second time this year 77-71. This time it wasn't just for fun either. The Irish will move on to play Maryland in Las Cruces, New 
Mexico Thursday night while KU finds themselves out of the tour­nament and off the courts, at least until next year. 
"We just played poorly in the first half," said Kansas coach Ted Owens after the game. "They were in a one and one situation with 15 minutes left." 
' 
Owens was referring to the astronomical number of personal fouls the Jayhawks committed, 39 for the game, including 18 in the
.' 
first half. The Irish attempted 50 
With Danny Knight (52) In hot pursuit Dave Batton pulls up for a short ra (Photo by Ed Brower). 
You can study the American Arts in England this summ,erl 
Your Bicentennial summer at the L'niverslty of Evansville Harlax­ton S~Centre in England will be the learning adventure of your life. S the Arts In America 200 years later . . . . art, creative writing, nee, drama and musk. Earn 9 coDege credits from June 15toJuly 15 . .C0mpletecostfor room, board and tuition ls$1,000, plus air fare, including a $100 deposit. Your application deadline Is April 1. Enrolment is limited, so return the coupon today for complete details. No obligation. 
,--;-;,.7j.:;,-,;~::::;.-.b;..~;a;;n~O:~~:,-~--­
I f 
J 
' t ' • ..a.£<:<:­
l:, ·~"" _ STATE___ ~ ' 
'·""~ 
~lAC)_ ­

r 1 colovo FA SOPH JR SR 1·, trcle one) 
' ---------~-----­
TO:.,..._.. .. ,, ­
D.pt:., 
~ .. e---. 
P.O. ._ 329 
E--........~ 
••u.h•••ay

~eiEwaMVUie 
..... ... tf ~ chunh-.-...d, ' 
free throws, connecting on 35, while KU went to the line only 18 times. Nonetheless, Owens never once complained about the of­ficiating. 
"We didn't move our feet well enough," said Owens as he sat in the interview room tearing his NCAA coach's pass into 800 little pieces. "We couldn't keep up with them." 
"With our speed we got them stuck together," added Phelps. "They couldn't seem to get around us." 
The bigger Jayhawks had trouble from the start, but in the second half came two points away from turning things around. Trailing 44-32 at intermission, Kansas outscored the Irish 14-4 in the first eight and a half minutes of the second half narrowing the margin to two, 48-46. 
Then Digger made his move,· much to the displeasure of the partisan KU fans in Mabee Center. Phelps went to his "four corners" offense, somewhat akin to the stall, and most of the 10,5757 fans wat­ching, greeted the strategy with boos and hisses. 
"When we use the four corners 
or four tight, a lot of people think 
you're holding the ball," explained 
Digger. "But that's just what I 
want them to think, because then 
you catch them sleeping, and 
boom, we go right by them. Mter 
we went to the corners, we out­
scored them 19-2." 
The key to the move is Dantley, 
who gets the ball and drives the 
lane looking for the layup and getting, mostly, the three-point play. That's exactly what hap­pened. Dantley got his first layup with 10:49 to go to make it 51-46. KU's Danny Knight answered with a jumper, and then it was another 

Dantley layup, Batton off a Dantley pass, Batton on a follow of A.D.'s missed shot, one Dantley three point play, one more Dantley layup, a Bill Paterno jumper, and another Dantley layup making the score 67-48 with 7:37 to play. 
"We decided to go four corners because we figured <Norman) Cook couldn't play Dantley," said Phelps. "That would set up a three on two advantage underneath the basket. We had been working on this all week as an alternate of­fense." 
"We crowded Dantley a little too much," offered Owens. "We tried to stick close to him, but we got a little too close.'' 
Thus, four of KU's five starters fouled out, three with still 8:25 left in the game, and altogether six Jayhawks were whistled to the bench because of fouls. As a result Notre Dame held a commanding 68-50 lead with 7:06 to play. 
However, Rick Suttle, Kansas' leading scorer with 17 points, and the only one of the starters who didn't foul out, accounted for 12 Jayhawk points to Notre Dame's five in the next three minutes narrowing the gap to 11, 73-62. Dwight Clay made a layup with 
2:57 left before Milt Gibson canned two jumpers and Roger Mor­ningstar one, making it 75-68. Dantley got the Irish's final two on a pair of free throws, when KU made its last gasp effort. The Jayhawks got three more, and the Irish missed four free throws, but 
if Kansas expected any more of a ' miracle, their faith was shaken as time ran out with ND on top 77-71. ; 
The first half was all Dantley and Dave Batton, who had 14 of his 18 points in the initial period. The Irish led 19-17 at the 11:37 mark and with Batton at the charity stripe and on the boards, Notre Dame upped its lead to 24-19, 37-23, · and at the buzzer, on a last second Paterno bomb, 44-32. 
"I'm real excited about Dave Batton," said Digger. "He was in the infirmary last week for four days with a slight muscle tear and only started practicing on Wed­nesday, and he did a hell of a job. He's learned a lot this year 
campus view. 

A N~W APARTMENT COM­
MUNITY DEVELOPED ·FOR THE STUDENTS. OF NOTRE DAME & SAINT: MARY'S. CAMPUS VIEW IS SET IN A WOODED SURROUNDING YET IS ONLY 
3 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME. LOCATED JUST ONE lJLOCK NORTH OF STATE RD. 23 OFF OF WILLIS'RD. 
NOW RENTING FOR FALL SEMESTER 
( '75 -'76 SCHOOL YEA'R ) . -I FO~ RENTPL INFORMATION. PHONE 272-1441 
.. >«... . --­
.,. "' ............. 

'"" -"" -., . ~ 
-"t. ,-. 
--~ ,> 
Four Corner Fun: Adrian Dantley drives for another layup off Digger Phelps' "four corner offense (Photo by Ed Brower). playing-wise. He's a sophomore time," said Dantley. "We'll be now, not a freshman." ready." 
"I got a little tired in practice on "We're real excited about Friday," allowed Batton. "I guess playing Maryland again," added it was because I was so excited, but Digger. "It'll be a great game at I didn't get tired at all tonight." New . Mexico State. Nobody 
Next for the Irish is another realizes it, but we're right back rematch, this time with where we were last year--in the 
Maryland. The Terps took care regionals." of Notre Dame at College Park LeftyDriesell probably realizes earlier in the year 9Q-82. "It's it. going to be a different game this 
7 StyIists Full Time Manicuri'lt Full Service Salon 

Edison & St. Rd. 23 
For Appt. 272-7222 
FOR MEN 










CAMPUS 
VIEW 
<N: and lV\0 BBJROOM RJRNISHED N>ARTMENTS 
iC  COMMU_NITY BUILDING  
iC  IN~OOR SWIMMING POO~  
iC  B'ASKETBALL COURT  
iC  SHAG CARPET  
iC  2 BATHS IN 2 BEDROOM APT  
iC  ALL APPLIANCES COLOR  
COORDINATED  
iC  SECURITY  
.;  SOUND CONDITION~D  
iC  PRIVACY  




