
OD The Inside 
Grad survey .•• page 2 
Great SLF story ... page 5 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community

Vol. IX No. 92 Monday, March 3, 1975 
SBP hopefuls close campaigns 
DESPITE THE onslaught of snowy South Bend weather, hundreds of Notre Dame juniors and their parents enjoyed the weekend activities scheduled for them. (Photo by Andy Waterhouse) 
by Lonnie Luna Ataff Reporter 
Fourteen of the sixteen candidates for Student Body President and Vice­President discussed the issues yesterday before a sparse gathering in the Keenan Hall Chapel. 
Each ticket was allowed four minutes for an opening statement. Only three questions were asked in the question-and­answer period.
.Jack Culligan 
Jack Culligan, SBP candidate, began the forum speaking for the Culligan-Macauley ticket. Culligan stressed two areas of importance: dealings with the ad­ministration and student rights. 
Emphasizing the use of publicity, Culligan said, "Publicity is the ad­ministration's greatest fear." He ex­plained the President's newsletter sent to parents and alumni by the University gave only the viewpoint of the University and not the students. 
"What we would like to do is publish a newsletter and send it to the parents and alumni so as not to make them prejudiced by the University's viewpoint." He ex­plained the use of student support and student publications to push an issue. 
"What the university is afraid of is bad publicity, which means fewer con­tributions," Culligan said. 
Culligan also emphasized the need for the selection of a strong leader who can get things doneJIPexplained that the Culligan­Macauley ticket will have the time to best represent the student body. 
·'As far as the leader goes, get somebody that can get things organized, that is responsible and that can get people to be interested in Student Government. That's really the whole gist of our cam­paign." concluded Culligan. Culligan urged the students to get out and vote today. 
.Iot• Corpora 
The next candidate to speak was Joe Corpora. He focused his presentation on improved communication, more student input. and increased student participation in Student Government. 
"We believe that further steps should be taken to make Student Government a more visible organization. It must be viable and visible to the students," stated Corpora. He explained that his ticket gave 

Advice available for students charged with rule violations 
by Tom Russo Staff Rt>porter 

Notre Dame students charged with university infractions can obtain advice from each hall . Judicial ('hairman and from the Student Govern­mt>nt .Judicial Co-ordinator. Brian McGinty. 
"Normally a student who is charged with a Yiolation of any university rule \which is not han­diPd by the Hall Judicial Board l receives an official summons to see Mr. Macheca," explained McGinty. 
''The Dean of Students then hands the student a lorm on which the student must make a choice to have the case heard before either Mr. Macheca himself or before the University Judicial Board." 
"I urge the students to call me before seeing Mr. 1\lacheca and signing the form", said McGinty. "Wt> want to help the students understandthe op­tions available. 
<>nc of the most difficult problems which the Student Government counselor faces is that students come to him after choosing to be heard by Dt>an Macheca and are unhappy with his decision. 1f a student wishes to appeal Macheca's decision to the llniversity Appeals Board it must be proved 
that the Dean's decision was inappropriate, not that the student's actions were proper. "A student's chances are much better if he comes to me sooner", McGinty stated. 
McGinty's Student Government Office number is t\413. A student needing advice can make an appointment to see him, through the secretary for anytime the following afternoon ''There are a lot of misconceptions here", McGinty commented. "F:ach student thinks his case is unique because it's never happened to him before. It's not. We've handled cases this year involving everything in the .Judicial Code. 
only one campaign promise, that of 100 
percent commitment." 
Following Corpora was Pat Boyle, whose running mate is Tom Black. Boyle cited the underlying issue of all candidates in the campaign as favoring confrontation with the University, attacking the University and even going to the extremes of boycott. 
"Confronting the administration with anger will only result in the ad­ministration's reacting in anger," said Boyle. Boyle explained that Student Government has its limits but there is a wide range in which it Pan work and work effectively. 
t>at Ro~·le 

Boyle continued with a metaphor of a tug-of-war having the students on one side of the rope, the alumni on the other side and the administration in the middle, favoring the alumni in order to retain the contributions. 
"The reality of Notre Dame is that it is a private institution and is dependent on these contributions from the alumni," Boyle said. He continued, "They keep us quiet, content, or try to and so often we end up on the short end." 
Boyle cited the Notre Dame Magazine as expressing the view of the university and not the students' view. 
Boyle suggested two areas in which the student government could work with the alumni to get results. One area is the building up of SARG, Student Alumni Helations Group, whose sole purpose is to further student-alumni relations. 
"The alumni were once students here so they would understand what we are trying to do," stated Boyle. Boyle cited similarities in the platforms and offered "spokesmanship in the Dome" as com­pared to being monolithic. 
Boyld urged students to vote and con­cluded, "Remember, seniors can vote. You have as much a say in what is to be left behind as those who will remain." 
!\like Gassman 

Making student government more businesslike and more effective was the main topic of Mike Gassman, SBP can­didate on the Gassman-McGuire ticket. 
"Let's sit back and look at the campaign objectively; look at what the candidates have said, but then think why, why they are running and what they are going to 
The student receives advice on what to expect. For some cases the studentwould be better off going to Dt>an Macheca. For others it would be advisable to go before the University Judicial Board, com­posed of three students and three non-students . 
If a student chooses to go before the University J­Board. he or she will be assisted at the hearing by 1\kGinty. who will help the student prepare a statement. Dean Macheca will also be present, but neither McGinty nor Macheca can vote. 
"An important part of my jog," McGinty ex­plained, "is to know the Judicial Code and its history. A knowledge of previous cases helps insure that Mr. Macheca's or the Board's decisions are 
consistent and not arbitrary." There are cases when the authority of the · llniversity and municipal authorities overlap. For 



TOMORROW: 
Pxample. a student involved in a drug arrest is subject not only to state and federal laws but also to the University's Judicial Code. 
A CHANGE

"The University does not have contacts' down­town." said McGinty. "There have been cases 
THE OBSERVER will enter
where the university has pleaded for a lesser 
penalty on behalf of the student." 

an era of new identity with
A student who has legal problems outside the university can seek advice at the Legal Aid and 
tomorrow's issue. The change will mark!
Dl'fender Association ,__an organization run by Notre 
Dame law students. Legal Aid, whose offices are 
the beginning of a distinctiveness in · 
located in the basement of the Law Building is an 
Pxtensive operation encompassing six divisions. 
appearance and purpose.. The direction 
The llniversity Referrals Division, directed by Joe 
t 'assini. handles problems involving Notre Dame 
of these arrows will be prefaced 
students. 

tomorrow with an explanation from the
Part li of this atticle will explore the ways in which students can be helped, who is eligible, as 
editor's desk. Watch for them.
well as the functions of the other divisions of Legal 
Aid. ­do," stated Gassman. He stated that he and McGuire were running "to serve the student, to provide the students with more voice in the administration." 

Gassman wants to increase com­munication with the students, the alumni, the administation and increase the coordination of government itself. Making student government more business-like makes it serve the student more, ex­plained Gassman. 
He stated that he was not seeking a restructured government. Gassman is seeking to place the Off-Campus Com­missioner into the student government office to make it work more effectively. 
B•·ian llegarty Brian Hegarty, the next SBP candidate, favors the displaying of student interest in a forceful manner, such as boycotts. He explained that a well-balanced student government demands a combination of philosophy, policy and services. "One case to note occurred a few years ago. The graduate students were com­plaining that their salaries were too low. They cooperated with the University and got nowhere. So they handed out leaflets at a football game. Obviously, the ad­ministration was upset with this, but two weeks later they got their raise," Hegarty said. Hegarty wants more students on the Academic Council. He explained that out of the 66 members on the Council, only five are undergraduates. Also, Ht,"garty is seeking student responsibility in the halls. 
''Everyone thinks that parietals should be erased completely off the boards but this would be very difficult to put through the Board of Trustees," Heagarty noted. "Instead, we're looking for students to take the responsibility of setting their own hours, whether it be by section, by floor or hallway. Like this, the students will be able to set, determine and enforce their own parietals; they'll make their own hours instead of having them imposed from above." 
Ell B,\Tne 

l<Jd Byrne was the next to speak. Byrne l'ited lack of student support in allowing "the University to set the game rules." 
"This does not mean we lose, but means we have to do the kind of job we are supposed to when we submit a report to the Board. If we can't convince the Board, then we have failed in our job," Byrnesaid. 
Byrne urged the students to review the platforms, inquire into them and then decide who they would like to representthem. 
Andy Bury concluded the forum by disagreeing with the editorial in Friday's Obst·•·ver which stated that there were no leaders amidst the candidates. He ex­plained that leadership is the major concern in thie campaign. 
Andy Hm·y Bury emphasized that the students do not want a leader who will beat around the bush or mislead them with false campaign promises. He explained that the vice­president is also an integral part of the ticket. "The vice president should have the same characteristics as the president and AI Sondej has these characteristics," commented Bury. "I have been in charge of the Academic Commission for three years and AI Sondej has been sectio~ leader in Keenan Hall the last three years. Bury promised "to solve the problems as they arise and that's all." Bury seeks to better relations with the administration without the "unwarranted consequences." All candidates stated their fear that the election today would take on the characteristic of a popularity contest. Dennis Smith Dennis Smith and Bruce Hand failed lO send a ticket representative to the session. Keenan Hall President Bernard King served as moderator for the forum. 
Polls will open 
All Notre Dame undergraduates are t>ligible to vote in today's election of the next student body president and vice­president. 
On-l·ampus students will vote in their r('si!lt•nce halls during the meal hours, II ::10 a.m. to I p.m. and 5 to 6:30p.m. Off­l'ampus students may vote in the lluddle ht•lwt•t•n II a.m. and 5 p.m. 
1\o wTite-in Ol' blank ballots will l>e t·ounted as valid. 
If no candidate receives 50 percent plus mw of the valid ballots cast, the top two ,·ote-gt•tte•·s will meet Wednesday in a run­off. 
-
:..-mt'. 
·:{ 'A111.if'·· 
Monday, March 3, 1975

the observer 


warld briefs 
COLUMBIA, S.C. (UPI) -Inmates wielding homemade knives and other weapons fought at the Central Correctional Institution Sunday until guards finally brought them under control with clouds of tear gas. 
Nine inmates were injured, three seriously enough to require hospitalization. 
SHIPIWCK. N.M. <UPil -Two television newsmen filming an t•lectronic plant occupied by armed members of the American Indian Movement were beaten Sunday in the first outbreak of violence in the six-ilay-Qld seizure. 
Authorities at the plant on the Navajo Reservation said Harold Cook and .Jim Terrazas of KGGM-TV, at Albuquerque, N.M. were not st•riously injured. No arrests were made. 
IIAHTH>HD. Conn. (UPI) -"Scared, really scared," was the way seeurity guard Roy Hanno summed up his feelings after being kidnapt•d by three men claiming to be revolutionaries, who then destroyed the factory where he worked. Ranno,guard Al Hanley and Hobert [)pJoy, a boilerman, were taken handcuffed and blindfolded from the Sponge Rubber Products Co. factory about an hour bl'fore t•xplosions set it ablaze around 11:30 p.m. Saturday. 
<;HATJ<:IU'OHD, Pa. WPil-Graterford Prison inmate Vaughan 1\ooker. a convicted murderer ordained Saturday as an Episcopal dt•aeon. could become a priest if he meets the qualifications. 
Booker. 32, serving a life sentence for the 1967 bow and arrow slaying of his wife, was ordained a deacon in ceremonies at the prison. Thl' former Eagle Scout will not be eligible for parole until 1982 and will serve as deacon at Graterford. 

an campus taday 
3 p.m. meeting, academic council, rooms 100-104 center for con­tinuing education. 
7:30 p.m. lecture, "some legal protections and problems" by j.s. crumpacker, carroll hall. 
8 p.m. sophomore literary festival, james purdy, lib. aud. 
-

JAMES PURDY arrived on campus last night in time to attend the opening ceremony, a reading by Joseph Brodsky. Mr. Purdy will attend classes and lectures throughout the week. He reads from his works 
tonight at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. (Photo by Fred Graver)
t___::....__ _:________:_________________ Ford's program, which is based on 
controversial oil import fees, as running "the real risk of deepening

Convicted Boston doctor 
both the inflation and recession 1 pressures existing today."

discussed in statement 
CHICAGO <UPil -Dr. Kenneth J<:delin. the Boston physician recently convicted of man­slaughter in an abortion case, aetcd in accordance with the principles upheld by his profession, the American College of Obstetricians and <iynecologists said Sunday. 
The college's executive com­mittee mPt in an all-day session Friday to draft a statement on the !<:delin case. It read in part: 
"In health care problems, ob­stetrician-gynecologists attempt to act in the best interest of their patients and society in general. In this l'ffort, they must practice in accordance with their own and their patients' individual con­victions, and within the legal guidelines provided them. 
"From the information available to the committee, it is the opinion of the executive commttee that Dr. !<:deli'.' was acting in accordance with these principles." 
The statement called for more specific legal and ethical guidelines to assist the profession in making and acting on such decisions as abortion cases. 
"The adversary system of criminal justice is not necessarily the best forum for the development of these guidelines," the statement said. 
A spokesman for the college, Hobert Mander, said the statement. which now becomes the official position of the college, would he sent in the eoliege's newsletter to its 16,000 members in the United States, Canada and Puerto Hico. 
Austgen said he hopes the eommittee's plans will not meet the samP fate of cancellation this year. "We're trying, really trying," he said. "I want everyone to know that we are really sincere in our efforts." 
The committee, which has also provided lists of off-campus housing to graduate students, eontains members of the llniversity administration, the faculty organizations, the graduate student organizations and the graduate departments. In addition to these groups, guests who have some connection with graduate student problems are present at each meeting to give advice. 
Smith-Hinds said he has no strong emotional feeling against the University, but noted that comminication needs to be im­proved. 
Ullman proposes energy package 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Rep. AI 
Ullman, D-Ore., chairman of the House Ways and Means Com­mittee. said Sunday his panel has drafted a "solid, tough" energy package that could be the basis of a eompromise between conflicting ! programs proposed by President l<'ord and congressional 
Democrats. 
The Ullman plan was the third 
major energy program in a month. 
Ullman criticized the Democratic 
package. which was unveiled 
l<'riday, as being "watered down to 
the point where the Ways and 
Means Committee doesn't believe 
that it will adequately do the job."
A :34-page Democratic report 
drawn up by "task forces" com­
promised of members of Ullman's 
eommittee, also flatly rejected 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations t y the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
~··············~i::~·~·············i 
•
•
•
• 
:ALL ALPINE DESIGN
•

:ALL CAMP 7 SLEEPING BAGS
•
:ALL DOWN PARKAS :GERRY "Traveler" PACK
•

: AND SERIES 71 FRAME
• 

Grad housing surveyed 
The Advanced Student Affairs Committee is distributing a survey to determine the housing needs of Notre Dame graduate students. The survey is being promoted to determine if a graduate housingcomplex should be built on-campus. 
l<'r. Hobert J. Austgen, chairman of Advanced Student Affairs, stated that there is a real need on the part of the students for the Universtiy to provide some housing services. Of the 1700 graduate students attending Notre Dame, only 300 live on-campus, mainly in Lewis Carroll and Brownson Halls. Thl' surv.ey includes questions regarding types of housing <married or single), types of occupancy <number of bedrooms),' cooking facilities, features andl location preferred by students. 
Austgen stated that the most important consideration is probably the rental ranges. "What good would such a complex be if no one could afford it?" he asked. 
Bill Smith-Hinds. president of the Graduate Stupent Union, agreed, stating, "There probably are rich grad students here. I don't know, but most of us can't afford anything too high." 
Smith-Hinds pointed out that he is presently living in a mobile home park in Granger and spends about $40 per month on gas for driving to and from campus. He noted that the University could probably put up some some sort of housing which would make graduate student living less expensive. 
One of his major considerations in choosing to come to graduate school here, Smith-Hinds stated, was tht• supposed ease in procuring housing. He admitted that this impression was quite badly mistaken. /\ graduate housing complex was planned in 1972. but a policy change by the federal government made low interest loans unavailable and the plans were cancelled. 
: (No layaways, returns, or exchanges : 
• on sales merchandise) • : SALE APPLIES TO SALE ENDS : : IN-STOCK MERCHANDISE MARCH 8, 1975 : 
•
•
•
• 

20% off·:
•

20% off:
•

20% off: 20% off:·
•
:
• 
• 
• 



Sierra 8ports·;i
•
• 

216 • 

233·8383 "MIAMI AT EWING": 
~~..~·······~··························.. 
· 

ND-SMC THEATRE AUDITIONS 
kanof 


Friday, March 7, 7 PM O'Laughlin Auditorium Monday, March 10, 7 PM Regina Hall Auditorium (Audition materials available Speech and Drama Dept. Office--110 Moreau Hall, St. Mary's) 
OPEN TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS 
MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES * 2 FILMS 
* 
BOOKSTORE 

* 
LIVE FLOOR SHOW 


1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET CALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION 
~:::::::::~;::;::;::;::;::;:::;::;:::::::::::::::::::::::=::~
1 





NICKlE'S 
~

PRESENTS ..•lj 
I \ ~~ 


60 HOURS 
OF THE LOWEST BEER PRICES IN THE COUNTRY! 
MON, TUES, WED: 
NOON  -MIDNIGHT  
THURS, FRI, SAT:  
NOON  -8:00 P.M.  

PLUS THE B_EST HALF-POUND CHARCOAL GRILLED HAMBURGERS IN TOWN 

---------------------------------------------. 
Monday, March 3, 1975 the observer 
3 

Opinions differ 
Faculty reacts to Worland-Cushing letters 
by Erin Dwyer conducted was a good idea. Noting Professor Donald N. Barrett of decisions irregardless of the research are our primary 
Staff Reporter the insufficient input now coming the Sociology and Anthropology Senate's input," Barrett said. responsibilities," Bird noted. 
Faculty members contacted this from the faculty, Garvick said Department agreed with the intent "Budget priorities are a critical Bird also agreed with Professor weekend expressed a variety of that there should be closer of the faculty referendum and issue. There needs to be greater Worland that there should be a opinions concerning the vital issue cooperation between faculty stressed the need for more faculty input into arriving at these preference given faculty of the faculty's role in university boards and the faculty itself. input. decisions. At least they should be recruitment, based on religious governance. The professors line up Garvick went on to stress the "At the present time, the faculty made more public," Barrett said. affiliation. "We are a Catholic on different sides of the debate need for organization. Once this Senate is blocked. They have sat Although he sympathizes with institution and I can see no reason initiated by the Worland-Cushing cooperation has been achieved, the down with the administration and Professor Worland's objection that why we shouldn't recruit Catholic letters in last Friday's Observer. faculty's voice in university policy talked things over but it appears a Budget Priorities Committee professors," Bird argued. 
John D. Garvick, assistant would be more coherent and that the administration has consisting of six faculty members Joseph Bobik, associate professor of English, said that the therefore more effective, Garvick decided that the Senate is unim­would detract from the teaching professor of Philosophy and faculty referendum recently indicated. portant. They tend to make performance of those teachers and l\latthew Fitzsimmons, professor would occupy a great amount of of History, both agreed that th{· their time, Barrett believes that faculty should concentrate on their something must be done. Other-teaching obligations and Ieaw wise the faculty will get nowhere university governance to th~ ad 
MODESTO, Calif, (UPI)-The with their demands. ministratol's. 
Gallo Winery· replies to labor attack 
open letter to Cesar Chavez frum 
Modesto and the rally. ''The Administration must Fitzsimmons said that he is not the latest attack on its labor policy "You know that, if Gallo yielded "We will post a $1 million bond to realize that they have to treat concerned about the Jack of fal'ult' with a newspaper ad claiming that to your request, Gallo would guarantee that, if we lose a secret students and faculty as a apecial input. He stated, "I feel ad to yield to the United Farm election, we will call off the part of this university," Barrett ministrative decisions are made in Gallo Winery responded Sunday to Ernest and Julio Gallo." 
violate its contract with the 
boycott and wish Gallo and the concluded. good faith by those who have aWorkers Union would merely Teamsters and become subject to 
invite trouble from the Teamsters Teamsters Union happiness Other professors appear to be greater knowledge of resources
Teamster strikes, lawsuits and forever," Chavez said. pleased with the present role of the and capabilities than myself."
Union. 
other harassment, including
About 10,000 sympathizers of the In 1973 the UFW lost 95 percent faculty in university governance. Professor Bobik recommended
boycotts," the ad said in part.
lJFW staged a massive weekend of its contacts with grape growers Professor Otto Bird, instructor that the faculty stick to teaching
The Gallo ads, which a 

rally in support of a boycott aginst to the Teamsters. Nearly 100 in the General Program, stated and research. "I have been on
spokesman estimated cost just
Gallo, the nation's largest winery. major lettuce growers have also that the administration is already other faculties and I never see
under $30,000 for a single Sunday 
They marched through this city signed contracts with the Team-giving proper consideration to where much is accomplished with
run in California newspapers,
of 85,000 Saturday, then assembled sters. faculty opinion. Apart from that, such advisory boards," he ob-
said: "You know that Gallo is now 
at a park to hear UFW leader and always has been perfectly ·1· the faculty shoul~ not get overly served. Overall, Bobik statt•d, Cesar Chavez outline grievances agreeable to an election if you and 0pendoor po 1cy involved in university ad-the administration is giving the ministration. "Teaching and faculty a fair consideration.
against both Gallo and the giant the Teamsters would agree to such Chris Albosta, Student Affairs 
Commissioner on the Executive ·-------------~I
murdered U.S. official Hoard, said the rejection came I 
because of security reasons. I 
CORDOBA, Argentina (UPI) -San Geronimo. Sources close to the ·'There are almost sixteen doors in I The body of murdered U.S. Con­American embassy said Hegina Hall, Albosta noted. "It I•• I sular official John P. Egan was authorities put pressure on Mrs. would be impossible to open all of entombed in a simple ceremony Egan to have her husband buried them or even half of them." 

~t-..=::::=l(i).."•--~~ .f.Pl I 
Sunday. Soldiers and police armed as soon as possible. The body was Stevie Wenig, Assistant to the 
Are you being ripped off? I
with rifles and submachine guns placed in the vault of a close family Vice-President for Student Affairs, quietly stood guard in the small friend. said that the inconvenience in­You have every right to buy auto parts I 
cemetery. volved in walking the few steps
A few candles and wreaths from Mrs. Egan, dressed in black, from Hegina 's side door to the at wholesale prices! I

Secretary of State Henry
stood in the brilliant sun, weeping front door, or from the side door of 
Kissinger, President Ford and U.S. 
softly. Holy Cross by the post office to the HOFFMAN BROS. I
Ambaassador Robert C. Hill lined
When Egan's dark oak and brass front door is not significant enough the walls of the tomb. (corner of Eddy & Madison) I
coffin was lifted into the white to require all the doors to remain
In Washington, President Ford

granite tomb, she sobbed openly. open. We have parts to fix all American & 1
said Saturday Egan's murder "is a
The provincial governor took her The only real inconvenience is
vicious actwhich will be condemned most foreign-made cars I
in his arms and kissed her on both the walk all the way around
by people of decency and honor 
LeMans from the St. Mary's
cheeks before she was led from the Let our expert mechanics handle it OR I
everywhere." The President and
eemetery by her family. library, when that back door is The 62-year -Qld Egan was Mrs. Ford sent a telegram of locked, Wernig said. Security is L Save & do it yourself! (Advice is free) 1
condolence to Mrs. Egan.
kidnaped by the leftist Montoneros again the problem. "People don't guerrillas Wednesday and mur­Several officers from the army realize how much of a security dered two days later. His body was garrison in Cordoba attended the problem we have," she observed. ---------------~---------~ found along a desolate road in the funeral. About 25 soldiers armed It is unlikely that the proposal outskirts of Cordoba Friday night. with rifles stood guard. Two army will come up before the Council 
No other family members were jeeps with machine guns mounted again unless it is modified to ac­present for the entombment on top also were parked just out­l'Ommodate security problems, ceremony in the city cemetery of side the burial area. Wernig concluded. 
Observer to hold chess tourney 
be awarded. Prizes will go to top There will be a meeting of theby Katie Kt'rwin finishers and also to top novice and Chess Club Tuesday night at 7:30Staff Rt'porter 
unrated players. p.m. at 227 Computing Center and Competitors can register for a Math Building. Possible plans toAll Notre Dame chess players $2.50 fee on Saturday irom 8 to 8:30 form an intercollegiate chess teamare invited to participate in the a.m. or Tuesday through Friday will be discussed. New and oldThird Annual Obst't·ver Chess from I to 5 p.m. in the Observer members are encouraged to attendTournament, Saturday and Sun­office for $2. and to bring their sets.
day. March 8 and 9, in LaFortune Teamsters Union. Chavez an election, and if the results were demanded secret union legally binding and enforceable on rejected at SMC 
representation elections for field all parties." It ended with a plea by Mary Pinardworkers hired by the winery. for legislation bringing farm­Staff ReporterThe UFW lost its right to workers under the protection of the 
represent Gallo's 500 field workers National Labor Relations Act. A proposal to open all doors of 20 months ago when the winery 
Chavez's rally culminated the dorms at St. Mary's duringrecognized the Teamsters as the weeklong marches to the winery male visitation hours passed the 
bargaining agent for its field headquarters, some just over Student Affairs Committee but was workers. The UFW saw the move 
100 miles from San Francisco and unanimously rejected by the as a union-busting tactic and began Fresno and some 60 miles from Student Affairs Council last week. a nationwide boycott. Stockton by an estimated 600 The reason for the proposal,
The winery replied Sunday supporters.· They were joined on according to LeMans Hall with full page newspaper ads. the last day by busloads of sup­President Mindie Montesi, was a Bold black letters said it was : "An porters for the final march through matter of convenience. "If the 
doors are open during the week, they should also be open on the 
weekend," she said.
Burial held Sunday for 
Student Center. 
The competition will be a 5-round Swiss tournament, which means that each player plays 5 games and players of equal ranking or equal score compete against each other. 
"All players must provide their own sets and boards. Players with chess clocks are also en­couraged to bring them," ac­cording to Eric Robinson, tour­nament director. 
The time limit will be 45 moves in 2 hours. Hounds will be played at 9 a.m., 
I :30 p.m., and 7 p.m. on Saturday and at 9 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. on Sunday. 
Awards wiU be. prese11te.d•~t· 5.' 
p.m. Sunday. OnJy ca~h,p~i~~s vyi,l.. be giveri and there will be no trophies. 
The en~ire registration fund will 
ARE YOU A DOMER IN DISTRESS WITHOUT WHEELS? When In Need 0 fA Quick 
Getaway. Call Lois At 

JORDAN FORD 
JORDAN 259-1981 
FORD STUDENT RATES: 
Rent a PINTO or MAVERICK for Just $' ·s / o· ay & s· e • M i 1. e ( MlN .. AGE 2 1' 
609 E. Jefferson, Mishawaka 







WANTED 
Male Voices for Saint Mary's Academy Musical Carnival A d"t" M & T 
U I IOMS OM UeS Mar. 3 & 4 7p.m. Augusta Hall St. Mary's Academy 3610 Miami St. 
Bring Singing Material · Accompanist Available 


THE OBSERVER 
Fred Graver -. AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER AI Rutherford Editorial Editor Managing Editor
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 NEWS: 283-1715 BUSINESS: 283-7471 
Bob Zogas Tom Drape Terry Keeney Bob McManus Business Manager Editor-in-Chief News Editor Advertising Manager 
Monday, March 3, 1975 
A sense of frustration ... No candidates ... no endorsement 
This year's Student Body Presidential race is perhaps the strangest of its kind in recent memory. There are no clear divisions between the candidates, either in personality or in platform. Nor are there clear-cut issues on which to judge the stance of lhe candidates. 
As was made evident in Pat McLaughlin's remarks at last Wednesday's meeting, which opened active campaigning, this year has been one marked by frustration. 
Frustration has arisen from confrontations over the calendar, drinking rules, the sexuality code, changes in co-educational attitudes on campus, and off-campus problems. 
The sense of frustration has been shared by Student Govern­ment and the student body. The potential for student leadership on this campus has been spoken of frequently. Why, then, have no new leaders emerged in the Presidential race? 
The new leaders have remained out of the main action because of the frustration that has been witnessed in Student Government activity this year. 
Those who have chosen to run do not fit the leadership qualities Ihat the office of Student Body President now requires. 
The Student Body President A Student Body President must know what he is saying and be able to defend that statement when it is challenged. At the same lime, he must remain open to ideas that can enhance his original position. The Student Body President must be able to enlist the support of students. He must be able to enlist their trust and their faith in his basic senses of reason and judgement. He must have a per­sonality that is aware, responsive and forceful. Only then will students have the confidence to support his action on issues. The Student Body President must act upon and channel student response, rather than simply react to and remodel it. He must have the ability to innovate, to be able to find the most direct route through which to conduct student energy. He must be fully aware of the situation on campus, ranging from the lone of student sentiment to their specific proposals for issues. He must be able to recognize necessity and realize ac­complishments. The office of Student Body President is characterized by the concept of the President as focal point. He must provide the students with a center of organization which will be receptive enough to engender their trust in its ability to represent student sentiment. 
This Year's Candidates 
None of the candidates for Student Body President have come close to meeting the demands of the office. 
As evident from their platforms and statements, none of the candidates have fully researched the situations at this University. Few are aware of the intricacies and complexities of its workings. 
As an example of this lack of awareness, a discussion of the Committee on Undergraduate 'Life at yesterday's Keenan­Stanford forum revealed that a number of the candidates had no forms, have shown no more than a rudimentary knowledge of all 
past action by Student Government. Very few have bothered to 
closely examine the present Student Body President's term of 
office. 
For the most part, the candidates have stressed a re­
organization of student government. But none have come up with 
anything even resembling a plan for this re-structuring. Their 
statements in this area are a prime example of reaction and 
remodeling, as opposed to acting upon and channeling student 
activity. 
One can see from the dwindling attendance at the forums and 
debates held over the past week that none of the candidates has 
the ability to enlist student support. Wedensday night, there were 
close to four hundred people in attendance. Yesterday afternoon, 
in the Keenan-Stanford chapel, the figure was close to forty. Most 
of these people were campaign workers, members of the student 
press or forum organizers. 
Last, but not least, is the lack of ability shown by all candidates 
in defending their platforms and statements. Both in debate and 
personal meetings (which all candidates stressed, and in which all 
were particularly weak), the candidates evaded or were unable to 
answer questions that either challenged their limoted concept of 
student government or went outside of their prepared answers. 
The Endorsement: A Perspective 
In the past, endorsements for Student Body Presidential Can­didates have attempted to point towards areas of student concern that seemed particularly pressing and urgent. This year, the area is leadership, but none of the candidates seems effectively directed towards it. 
The endorsements have always been made after careful con­sideration of the candidate's platform and his performance in this campaign. This year has been no exception. 
After careful consideration, the Editorial Board of the Observer cannot see fit to endorse any candidate for the office of Student Body President. 
We have also carefully considered the ramifications of our decision. 
Perhaps the most powerful effect will be the election of a a 
Student Body President with very little, if any, student support. 
Such an occupant of that office may destroy what little power it 
has left in it. 
But such destruction, seen in the face of the present situation, could in the long run be valuable. If, as it seems from the past year of frustration, the office of Student Body President has become ineffective and now attracts students of minimal leadership capabilities, then it is time that the office should come to an end. 
If the energy that seems to have been so neglected in this year's campaigning remains, the students will then search for a new voice, a new means of expressing their discontent and desire for action. That new leadership can only be more effective than the frustration we suffer now. 
The Editorial Board 

idea of the existence of such a committee. Most, in their plat­
Monday, March 3, 1975 
the observer 

filter on a nightmare world 
by Iaureen goers 
Mention the name of James Purdy and you will often meet with responses~ of "anomaly," "enigma," and "grotesque perversity." Admittedly, Purdy's novels, plays, and short stories superficiallv differ from the norm in terms of their darkly fantastic elements; below their surfaces, however, they contain sensitive comments on the human condition--comments springing from a deep concern with humanity, rather than perversity. 
Tennessee Williams has said of Purdy: ·'He may shock and offend some partisans of the well-trodden paths in fiction but he will surely enchant the reader who values a new expression of new feeling and ex­perience in our very new times." Purdy's style of expression is precise and terse--but 
-=-....:___ 
his simplicity of language is deceptive. When he strips away superfluous adjectives and rhetorical devices, he deliberately and subtly leads us into the horror of the situation before we realize what is hap­pening. Rather than blandness, his "naked" style produces an atmosphere of intensity and tension, an eerie mixture of 
the naturalistic and the fantastic. One of the most fascinating aspects of his work is the union of his cooly detached, succinct style with the extravagant, explosive emotions he describes. The result is a nightmare world which is only bearable through the filter of 
his elegant and precise technique. 
This nightmare world Purdy's characters inhabit is , finally, no more fantastic than the darker corners of our own world. It is filled with lonliness, unfulfilled desire for love, and damaging, manipulative relationship. Purdy uses the house as a metaphor for the world in which we each have our own rooms, complete with doors that can lock others out, or be walked through to reach our fellow boarders; but like Eliot's Gerontion, Purdy sees it as "a decayed house." People stumble, grope towards each other through the darkness and debris, but they always fail in a cruel, tragic inability to love. 


Thus, his characters are trapped in alienation, staggering around their own "rooms" in a whimpering, barely audible desperation. Their lonliness is-that of a character in Purdy's short story, "Daddy Wolf": deserted by a wife and child he could not provide for, alone in a rat-infested flat, he explains his distaste for these last living creatures around him "because you think of rats along with neglect and lonesomeness and not having nobody near or around you." 
When Purdy's characters do venture out of their rooms, they are either the innocent, exploited, and defiled in our world, or those who prey on them, Jiving off them as parasites in a world devoid of love: 
To bt> Paten, to be divided, to be drunk 
Among whispers; by Mr. Silvero 
With caressing hands. at Limoges 
Who walked all night in the nest room. 
"Gerontion" 

These characters are often aware of their 
imprisonment, but any attempt at escape 
falls off into inactivity. They: 
... havt' heard the key 
Tum in tht' door once and turn once only 
(They l think of the key, each in his prison 
Thinking of the key, each confirms a 
prison. 
"The Waste Land" 

Purdy's characters are afraid to live by 
themselves in their stark isolation, but they 
are more afraid to "leave themselves" 
through loving another. These figures, and 
those they in turn help to imprison, take on 
the shape of orphans, invalids, spinsters, 
homosexuals, and failed artists who have 
retreated into their illusions and privations, 
their pain and their cruelty. An epiphany 
never comes for these characters-only 
stagnation and blind, repetitive suffering: 
"What is explanation--just telling 
t'vt>rything, then?" 
"Yt>s," the old man smiled. "And if I told 
you why I don't want to go South why we'd 
bt> ht'l't' for days!" 
"Hut Wt' are anyhow!" the boy exclaimed. 
"Wt>'l't' always just standing and sitting and 
standing and talking here or watching the 
birds." 
Tht> old man was silent. 
"Home by Dark," Purdy 

Warren French, in his Season of Promise, called Purdy "God's angry man, perhaps the last literary exponent in a decadent time of the thunderous Protestant revivalist tradition ...Purdy singlehandedly rein­vigorates a tradition turned effete; in every work he raises his voice against those who fail to realize their full spiritual potential as human beings." It was not easy for the writer to let his voice be heard, however. Purdy was rejected by every important New York publisher when he submitted his first novel. 63 Dream Place, which was only privately published through funds he obtained in 1956. When his work did finally appear, it was not well received by critics; it was such people as Edith Sitwell. Marianne Moore, and Andre Maurois who first recognized .his talent. 
In 1959, with the publication of his second novel, Malcolm, Purdy began to receive the critical attention he deserved. Since then, he has published The Nephew (1960), Children is All (a collection of short stories and two plays, 1962), Cabot Wright Begins (1964), Eustace Chisholm and the Works 0967), and I am Elijah Thrush<1972). .lt>I't>my's Version (1960) was the first part of a trilogy, Sleept>r in Moon-Crowned Valleys. and his most recent novel,The lloust' of the Solitary Maggot( 1974) is the second book in the sequence. Stories and a play from Children is All have been produced on Broadway (1963), an an Ed­ward Albee play based on Malcolm opened there in 1966. Purdy, whose works have been translated into twenty-two languages, has also recorded various novels and short stories. 
Born on July 14, 1923 in Ohio, Purdy at­tended the University of Chicago and University of Puebla, Mexico, later returning to Chicago for graduate study. While his career began as a faculty member at Lawrence College in Wisconsin, Purdy also served as an interpreter in Latin America, France, and Spain before devoting his complete time and attention to writing in 1953. 
Although he has received critical acclaim and distinguished honors (National Institute of Arts and Letters grant in Literature, Guggenheim fellowship, Ford Foundation grant> Purdy still feels that his is not respected by American critics and not read and appreciated in America. Hopefully, _ when "Purdy appears tonight, the second night of the Sophomore Literary Festival, at 
8:00 in the Library Auditorium, two creative processes will occur simultaneously: Purdy's sharing of his art with his audience, and the audience's affirmation that he is neither unread nor unappreciated at Notre Dame. 
backstage glimpses of a festival 
Everyone has a hero that he has long admired,whether he be movie star, athlete, political figure, or member of any other admirable profession. To carry on a per­sonal correspondence with any of these people is a feat that most people can only dream about. 
Forr one student at the University of Notre Dame, this fantasy has become a reality. For the past few months, he has talked with, written to, and even received poems from such esteemed literary figures as Anthony Burgess, James T. Farrell, Kurt Vonnegut, John Updike, Robert Bly, Tillie Olson and Lawrence Ferlinghetti. 
Sophomore Chris Mahon has commu­
nicated with these reputable authors in his 
capacity as chairman of the 1975 Sophomore 
Literary Festival. This year, the Festival 
will be held from March 2 to March 8. 
The Sophomore Literary Festival is an 
annual event which brings some of the finest 
living novelists, playwrights and poets to 
Notre Dame to lecture, read, visit 
classrooms and attend social events with 
students and faculty. 
Mahon was chosen as chairman last April 
after he and other applicants underwent 
extensive interviews by members of last 
year's Festival committee. Mahon ex­
plained that his main priorities were to 
obtain a wide variety of authors and reach 
more students with the social end of the 
Festival, than has been done in the past. 
Immediately after he was chosen 
chairman, Mahon began the long months of 
work necessary to organize the event. "The 
first thing I had to do was bring together the 
students who were interested in working in 
one of the areas that constitute the Festival 
committee," he said. 
Mahon expressed his pleasure with the number of students who have been working on the event. "We started with about forty volunteers and almost all have stayed with it, doing an excellent job," remarked Mahon. 
When the school year ended, the work for the committee began. During the summer months, the most crucial preparation for the festival was carried out. Each member of the committee was requested to research a few of the authors they would like to see at the Festival. 
Mahon noted that approximately forty invitations were sent to authors of varied backgrounds. "We received many ac­ceptances immediately," he said. However, he explained that many authors were forced to refuse for a variety of reasons-some were busy the week of the Festival, some no longer did campus lectures and some simply requested more money than the budget would allow. 
'The Sophomore Literary Festival receives almost all its funds from the Student Union. "The Student Union allotted us a budget aroung $10,000 this year," Mahon said. He noted that the average stipend paid to the authors is $500. 
Besides the money, visiting writers are given a round-trip first class airplane ticket from their home to South Bend, and free room and board for the duration of their stay, which they, themselves determine. Gary Zebrun, last year's chairman found it interesting to note that actor-playwright, Jason Miller was having such a good time at Notre Dame in 1974 that he extended his scheduled visit from two days to ten. 
Mahon noted that some authors are more easily negotiated with than others. "For example, Lawrence Ferlinghetti requested $1000 for his appearance this year. For­tunately, we were able to persuade him to come for the sum of $500," said Mahon. 
On the other hand, Ann Sexton requested $2500 and refused to bargain. Unfortunately, Sexton passed away this summer. 
Many of the authors that agree to attend often answer in novel fashion. For instance, Anthony Burgess expressed his interest in this year's Festival in an Italian sonnet that he mailed to Mahon from Italy in early September. The sonnet reads as follows: 

l>t>ar Chris, the trouble is, as you must know. 
Tht> getting over there, the·getting in: 
Into the States, I mean. They probe past sin. 
Tht> immigration hounds of heaven, go 
Probing and prising. peering high and low For t'vidence of redness, pinkness. Win? Ont> cannot win, even, indeed, begin To win against those engines. Even so, As I am likely to be there next March, In the ll.S., I mean, doing a little Lt>cturing (they dessicate, they parch, Those lecturt>s, make the bones grow thin 
and brittle), I'll try try to march beneath N.D.'s proud arch And dole out something, just a jot or tittle. regards, Anthony Burgess 
The theme of this year's Festival is ''Reflections." Mahon noted that some felt that a theme would be unnecessary because, as he expressed it, "A worJr of art doesn't carry a designated theme blatantly. Rather, it evolves from the work itself." However, for unifying purposes, the committee eventually decided to adopt the theme ''Reflections.'' 
Authors that will be visiting during the first week of March number eight. They are James T. Farrell, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Robert Bly, Joseph Brodsky, John Logan, Tillie Olson, James Purdy and Mike Ry.an. 
Professor Ernest Sandeen of the Notre Dame English Department has attended every Literary Festival since the first one in 1967. The past few years have seen Sandeen become a more important part of the Festival along with Dr. Doanld Sniegowski and Professor John Matthias, all faculty advisors. 
Sandeen talks of past Festivals with that same tender excitedness that can be detected when adults talk of their first 

by andy praschak 
wagon, treehouse, or life-size baby doll. 
"I think the Festival is becoming more widely established each year," said San­deen. However, he expressed a doubt as to whether it is possible to surpass the first official Sophomore Literary Festival held in 1968. <The first unofficial Festival was held in 1967 when critics were gathered to discuss the works of William Faulknew.) 
The 1968 Festival ran on a $20,000 budget and played host to some of-the most reputable American authors ever. 
The astonishing list included Kurt Von­negut, Norman Mailer, Ralph Ellison, William Buckley, Joseph Heller and Grandville Hicks. 
Kurt Vonnegut was later to remark in Pla)·boy magazine that his visit to Notre Dame was the funniest time he ever had while lecturing on the college circuit. "Vonnegut gave a satirical lesson on how to write a novel," reflected Sandeen. "He had a blackboard and everything--It was great-­-He had the kids rolling in the aisles,'' laughed Sandeen. 
Another author the crowd particularly enjoyed in the past Festival was Allan 
Ginsburg, according to Sandeen. "He had a hand organ and had the kids singing some sort of Mantra. They were up and dancing around Washington Hall," he joked. 
Sandeen also takes pride in noting the tact that the SLF has even helped launch some authors into new careers. "Last year, Bruce 
J. Friedman gave his first seminar on the media and since then he has taken a job as teacher at New York City College," he said. 
Chris Mahon summed up what he feels to be the importance of the Festival in a few sentences. "Literature looks at humans for what they are but you can't live life in books. The important part of the Sophomore 
· Literary Festival is living. You can't just associate with writers on a literary plane; you have to live with them, if only for an ho1r," expounded _Mahon. 
the observer Monday, March 3, 1975
6 
Outlook for An Tostal optimistic 
by Ron Porkins enjoyment of all. The Hall which anyone is welcome to per-grounds. of Keenan narrowly edged out Starr Reporter Presidents Council pays for the form in -are tremendous exam-In fact, Bob Quakenbush, several hall rectors, although affair. pies. And for the know-it-ails on assistant chairman, admits the Junior Class Secretary Betsy Kall The An Tostal Committee may And what events! There are pie­campus, there's always the chance university had recommended a made a good showing with 33 votes. run into problems along the way, eating contests and talent shows, to prove it in the Trivial owl. . field which looked perfect while A boat race on the lake is on the but it doesn't seem to deter them trivia games -the Shadow knows -Problt'ms st't'n snow-covered. drawing board, and a piano from the task at hand-preparing a and concerts and dances and But getting back to the 1975 An "But when the snow melted last smashing contest and bridge-fun-filled festival to help the maybe romances. Tostal Committee, they've been week, Tom, Mary Siegel, Vinnie crossing contest are definites. If university eommunity forget its One of the top draws every year working for the last few weeks Moschella and I went out to re-the smashers can put an upright problems for one wonderful is the Bookstore Basketball perfecting old events · and examine the field," he continued, piano through a nine-inch diameter Wt>t>kend in April. Tournament played for the coveted dreaming up bigger and better "and we more or less decided our hole in less than two minutes and For the uninitiated, An Tostal is Bookstore Basketball cham­ones for this April's festival. And events would be hazardous on that 26 seconds, they'll hold a new a Gaelic phrase which stands for pionship. Over 100 five-man teams unfortunately, there are problems particular field. Half of it is a world's record. As for the bridge­"ft>stival." The An Tostal Com­compete in a single elimination to be dealt with. gravel parking lot and the other a crossing, if you get to the opposite mittee. comprised of students from tourney on the campus outdoor "We are working really hard on swamp." side of the narrow bridge before both Notre Dame and St. Mary's, eourts for over a week prior to An finding a site for the Irish Wake Thus, the committee is still the guy coming the other way develops ideas and events for the Tostal -regardless of the weather. and Sunny Saturday's events," looking for a site to build their knocks you into the mudpit, you 
Though known as the Iron Man says Tom Porter, this year's mudpits and volleyball courts and win. Tournament, it's usually the team chairman. "We've investigated chariot race arena. Other returning favorites in-
Students protest that doesn't rust in the April rains several locations for the Wake -Innovations elude the egg toss and jello toss. that wins all the glory. most of them north of campus-and As for innovationwell, it wouldn't The concert sponsored by theJohn Dean talk Strong challengers for the a couple of days ago we found one be An Tostal witnout innovations. Student Union is planned for audiences last year, however, that looks very promising." For instance, the Mr. Campus Friday, April lB. Details about the ATHENS, Ohio <UPil -If the proved to be the Ben-Hur chariot "As for a field for Sunny contest <name tentative) will concertwillbereleasedbythemat 
Watergate conspirators had race and the Mud Volleyball Saturday, usually we use what's select a Mr. Campus from the likes a later date. 
not been caught, there would tournament. Brave charioteers come to be known as the An Tostal of Mr. Morrissey, Mr. Keenan, Mr. The Irish Wake, the party which have been another saacandal and ride in makeshift chariots drawn field, the one that lies between Sorin, Mr. Flanner .. you get the brings An Tostal to a close, will be it would have been worse, co~­by four horsemen from Notre Notre Dame and St. Mary's. But idea. Each hall will be requested to the only event held on Saturday victed C()nspirator John Dean III Dame in the former while the Congregation of Holy Cross elect their own handsome <though night, and for the first time may be saiJ Sunday night. volleyball teams which can afford priests, who own the field, has not necessarily sol representative. open to anyone in the university. 
"I would have had one very a lot of bleach compete in the invested a great deal of money in This new event is not to be Usually, the party has been limited warped view of the presidency if latter. reseeding the field since last April, confused with the Ugliest Man on to the first 500 couples to buy Wt' had gotten away with that 1\lort' than athletics so we can't use it. Our events would Campus Contest, begun last year tickets. eoverup." Dean told an audience of But athletic events aren't the make the efforts worthless," to raise money for charity. Votes The official dates for the about 6,000 at Ohio University. only An Tostal attractions wltich-continued Porter. may be bought for a penny apiece, weekend are April 17, 18 and 19. 
"There would have been delight the revelers. The Im-The Student Affairs Office is so you can vote as many times as Hopefully, all events will be held another Watergate and it would personation Contest and Original working with the committee to find you'd like or your pocketbook can under sunny skies and the absence have been far worse if we hadn't An Tostal Amateur Hour-both of a suitable field on University afford. Last year, Mike Sazdanoff of wacky winter weather. been caught," said Dean. 
He said he did not think that 
I I

r-----------------------------------------------------,
former President Nixon had any advance knowledge of the at­I 
l'Pter Lorenz. had won about 45 per I l't•nt of the vote. I The Social Democrats led by 1 


Newer Math.
mcumhent mayor Klaus 1 Schuletz lost the majority they won 1 
four years ago, dropping to 1 If you're a sophomore it's not too late to enroll in Army ROTC.
around 42 per cent. The surge in favor of the I U d h T y p tt d · k B · c C p

l'hristian Democrats apparently 1 n er t e wo-ear rogram you can a en a Six-wee as1 am reflected voter anger at the ab-1 next summer, take ROTC in your J. unior and senior years, and receive 1 
duction Thursday of Lorenz, 52. 1 
1 

His guerrilla kidnappers have said I a commission along with your diploma. In other words, complete a I 
they will execute him Monday 1 1 morning unless four of their jailed 1 four-year course in just two years! And if you're a veteran you don't 1 
l'omrades are given safe 1 passage out of the country. I even have to attend the six-week Basic Camp! I 
the observer I Army ROTC will also pay you $100 a month while you're m I 



Night Editor .. Andy Praschak 1 school (for you vets, that's in addition to your GI Bill) to spend as 1 
Assistant Night Editor .. Marti 1 

Hogan I you wish. I1 
Layout Staff ·-Kathy Skiba 1 1 

Day Editor .. Bill Sohn 1 A ROTC h a lot more to offer,. too. For more information call I
Copy Reader ·-Ken Bradford I rmy as Editorials .. Fred Graver or write: ARf1Y RO:rC t'ffb\ I
1

Features .. J. Robert Baker, Ginny I 'I ~Army ROTC I ~:~: . Greg Corgan I urJIVERSITY OF rlOTRE DAJ[ 1 t I Typists--Kathy Grace, Neil VIII, I [lOTRE DN1L Ill 46556 The more you ook a I Rick Huber, Martha Fanning 1 283-6264/6">55 it, the better it looks. I 
Compugraphic --Bob Steinmetz 1 ,.:.. -. . . 1 Picture Screener .. Albert D'An-1 · · • • ' • •.. · · ' · . , ''· 1 
~;'~ayout .. I ·# • ·-·-• • • • • • • .'. • • .' • .' '. • .'.'•• '. • , ,
Tom Whelan . I Night Controllers --M.J. Foley, I 
Dave Rust 



1..-----------------------------------------------------J 
Monday, March 3, 1975 
the observer 
7 

Hawaiian dream vacation 
Cancer victim gets last wish 
BELLEVILLE, Ill. <UPI> -to keep her daughter out of any Cancer victim Heidi Biggs, 14, died more hospitals because doctors Sunday en route home from a told her there was nothing more Hawaiian "dream vacation"--her they could do. last wish. On the way to Belleville, an 
The frail child was heavily ambulance attandant noticed drugged when she left Heidi had stopped breathing. The Honolulu on a nonstop flight to St. ambulance rushed to Memorial Louis, Mo., and she lost con­Hospital, where she was sciousness during the· flight. pronounced dead of a respiratory 
At Lambert-St. Louis Airport, arrest. Her mother and stepfather 
she was taken by stretcher to a were at her bedside. waiting ambulance for the trip to "Her bravery had touched the her Belleville home. Heidi's hearts of many people, I'm sure," mother. Lucille Biggs, had decided Mrs. Biggs said. 
ERA ratification shifts to Illinois Senate Tuesday 
SPHINGFIELD \UPl) ­
The fight over ratification of the controversial Equal Rights Amendment shifts to the Illinois Senate Tuesday, and ERA sup­p0rters are saying this may be the year. 
ERA backers and opponents are also ready for public hearings by the North Carolina legislature slated for Tuesday and again next week. with a ratification vote expected in th spring. 
ERA has been ratified by 34 states. Four more are needed to make the proposal part of the Constitution. Only one state has ratified the measure so far this \'ear. and both Illinois and North ('arolina are considered crucial. 
Illinois Senate leaders planned to put the proposal to its fourth St>nate vote in four years. This time EI{A backers are armed with a recent favorable court ruling and a crop of freshman lawmakers who favor the am­mt>ndment. 
The proposal has been voted on six times in the Illinois General Assembly since 1972. Despite consistently drawing a majority of ,·ote s in both houses, ratification has been blocked by leadership rulings that the measure requires three-fifths support. 
In 1973, both the speaker of the 
House and the Senate president, at 
that time both Republicans, ruled 
that the lllinois Constitution 
requires a three-fifths majority to 
ratify amendments. 
That year. 95 House members 
\'Oted for the ERA--six more than a 
majority but 10 less than the 
three-fifths required. The proposal 
never made it out of a Senate 
committee in 1973. 
Last year. the tables turned and 
the St>nate gave the ERA 30 votes-­
t'xactly a majority. But it was 
Jeclared defeated and the 
House never voted on it. 
EHA supporters took the 
matter to federal court seeking to 
have the three-fifths rule 
struck down and the 1974 vote 
declared sufficient for 
ratification. 
Last week. a three-judge federal 
pam•! ruled that the Illinois 
(;meral Assembly is not bound by 
the three-fifths rule of the state 
constitution and that it is up to the 
lawmakers to set up their own 
majority requirements. 
l':HA supporters called the ruling 
a "great victory". The new Senate 
president Cecil Partee, D-Chicago, 
ND K of C Club seeks volunteers 
The Notre Dame Knights of 
Columbus is looking for volunteers 
to help fold contribution bags for 
the Goodwill Industries annual 
clothing drive. 
There are 90,000 bags which 
must be folded for distribution 
through the South 8t.>nd Tribune 
by Friday, March 7. Folding will 
take place from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
Wednesday and Thursday. 
All students wishing to help 
should call Tom Dechant, Dan 
Sullivan, Steve Lucero or Dan 
Mellett at 7081 so that trans-. portation can be arranged. 
is expected to rule it takes only a majority vote, and Sen. Esther Saperstein, D-Chicago, the Senate leader of pro-ERA forces, says with Democrats now in control of the upper chamber, it will clear the Senate with votes to spare. 
EHA backers are more hesitant to predict easy passage in the house. It is uncertain whether Speaker William Redmond, an ERA opponent, will relax the three-fifthsrule. The answer to that question may decide the fate of l':HA in lllinois. 
In North Carolina, proponents of E H A will appear before a legislative committee Tuesday. 
"We heard from people who said 
they had strayed away from God, 1 
but hearing about Heidi's courage 
and faith in God put them back on 
the right path." 

Heidi had been confined to her 
Honolulu hotel room the last week 
of her two-week vacation when her 
condition suddenly worsened. Her 
weight down to 50 pounds, she was 
under heavy sedation and barely 
conscious in recent days. 
During the week, Heidi, 
apparently realizing she did not 
hav·e long to live, asked her mother 
to take her home. 

But the plucky little girl lived the 
first week of the vacation to the 
fullest on the sand and beneath the 
palms of Hawaii. She went horse­
back riding, shopping, sight­
seeing and walking ·on Waikiki 
Beach. 

"She was on top of the world," 
Mrs. Biggs said. 

Heidi's return to the St. Louis 1 
airport was in stark contrast to her 
departure 15 days before. Wearing 1 
a long brown wig to cover her bald head--she lost her hair during her ·illness--she laughed and smiled at 
well-wishers who saw her off. 
She had told reporters her 
dream had been to visit Hawaii 
because "I saw a movie about it . I 
went to see what it's like." 
Canadian businessman Russell 
J. Penny, who started a fund to make the trip possible, said, "We gave her her wish. It was her last request and we honored her last 


Y3 . R~
~urlng new releases by: 
'PlUS 
'?ipE":> 
'PA~· c.R':J 
TAp£S 
Cor.i~ 
919-B COLLEGE SQUARE MISHAWAKA, INDIANA ·255-0266 

request." 

Penny, of Sudbury, Ont., said he, Mrs. Biggs and Heidi's stepfather, Randy Hillman, were at Heidi's side on the plane trip back to St. Louis. He said the girl was in great pain and did not recognize anyone near her. 
"I'm completely shattered," Penny said. "We knew it was inevitable, but we had always held out hope." 
Heidi's story first became known to the public when her mother, who lives on welfare with her five children, sought help so Heidi could make the regular 20 mile trip to a St. Louis hospital for treat­
ment. Heidi had been told she had terminal lung cancer last summer. Penny heard of Heidi and came to visit her in Belleville. When he­learned of Heidi's dream to go to Hawaii, he donated $100 to begin a fund. Donations began to pour in from across the world. When the 
fund reached $2,400 Heidi and her mother were able to make the journey. Penny and Hillman later joined them. 
Last week in Hawaii, Penny said, Heidi told her mother "she was ready when God wanted her." 
"She  said  she  felt  she  had  
received  God's  forgiveness  and  
was at peace with herself."  


TUESDAY, DO SOMETHING DIFFERENT FOR LUNCH 
Have it with SOPHOMORE LITERARY 

.:·:·:·:··
..·..-:·:·:·:....·..·.
.-.......... .
CELEBRITIES 
JAMES T. FARRELL JAMES PURDY JOHN LOGAN 

BULLA SHED 11:15-1 Y'ALL COME! 
CLftSSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

2 1970 Cotton Bowl Victory Football Bonners, 18" by 36". Will pay reasonable price. Jay Wright, (219) 287-6084. 
Ride to Kent Ohio, Friday, March 7. Bob, 1152. 
Bass player wanted. Experienced with own equipment. into Jazz-Rock­Blues. Contact Rick, 287~8406, or Tom.,2340091. 
----~------­

Roommate wanted, beautiful npartment. $65 monthly. Call Fred, 288 5646. 
---------~-­

Need ride 3~ 13 to New England, back by 3~ 17. Jim, 8927. 
W,lnted: 2-man tent for springbreak. Call 289-6760. 
~­

Need riders to Pittsburgh. Leave Friday March 7 and return Sunday March 9. Call 289-3702. $14 round­trip. 
W,lnted: 2 riders to northwestern Beltway area of D.C. suburbs for spring break. $40 each, round-trip. Cnll 3694 anytime. 
Two need ride to Pittsburgh area to leave Friday March 7 and return Sunday, March 9. Will pay and share driving Call 3693 or David, 6508. 
·---------­
FOR SALE 

Rell & Howell receiver, small Ad­vent speakers, $180. John, 1192. 
-·-------­

For sale: partial set of irons. $25 or best offer. Call 272~9707. 
-~------­
-~­

Flying Junior SailbOats for sale. 13'3". Good condition. Notre Dame Sailing Club, 8312 or 1150. 
·--~ ---------­
NOTICES 

Ski Trips: The Notre Dame Ski Team invites you to: The Irish Bender Crystal MI., Mich., March 15-16; Ski Jackson Hole! The biggest mountain in the U.S.A., March 22-29; Meeting tor trips Mond., March 3, Rm. 1-C LaFortune. 7:00p.m. More info, call 6811 or-6856. 
S.H.A.R.E. Hotline phone, 4311, rm. 15, Holy Cross S.M.C. Completely confidentiaL 8-12 nightly. 
Overseas Jobs Australia, Europe, 
S. America, Africa. Students, all professions and occupations. $700­$3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing. Free in­formation. Transworld Research Co, Dept. F3, P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA., 94925. 
···---·-------­Tune-up specialist, 2-barrel car. buretor overhaul, 24.95, parts in­cluded. 232-1796. 
--· ---------MedicaL dental. and law school applicants: perhaps we can help you get accepted. Box 16140, St. Louis, MO., 63105. 
Need a ride over spring break? Wilson Driveaway has cars going to many destinations in the U.S. and your only expense is gas. For info, call Jim at 1694. 
Accurate, fast typing. Northeast section of Sooth Bend. Reasonable. Phone ~32-07 46. 
FOR RENT 
Apartments for summer sublease. Good condition, close to campus. Call 272 4156 or 277-0130. 
---------..,.­
Furnished apt, second floor. Gas heat furnished. 289-6307, 234-0596. 
Furnished houses available now for summer and fall rental. Phone 289­2602 or 234 -9364. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost· sterling silver bracelet in Stepan or parking lot on Thurs. of Mardi Gras. Sentimental value. Reward. Nancy, 5133. 
Lost: 1 pocket calculator in black case at Saint Mary's. Please call 
.J~~4 
PERSONALS 
K.C. 
Ynu·ve t1me for others, 
llttt <'xcuses tor me. 
My heart is heavy 
with despondency. 
Paint "'"' a clock 
with some time for me 
For the kid that smiles 
Is " friend of thee. 
Famous Lover 
-~--­
Summer in Europe: Uni-Travel Charters at less than '2 regular economy fare. 65 day advance payment required. U.S. Govt ap. proved. TWA-PanAm-Transavia 707s. Call toll free 1-800~325-4867. 
Murphy: 
How was it? 
M. B. & G.W. 
Hmry K? How's d ADa? HK sub 53 
Happy Birthday ever so lovable lruly Julie. A Million Laughs 
Janet D.­Belated birthday greetings. Thanks lor all your help. 
R 
Observer Staff: Happy Birthday to those of you celebrating birthdays in the month of March. There will be brownies in the office on Wednesday (after Mass!). 
"Mom" 
When you're hot you're hot, When you're not avoid gravel pits! Happy Birthday S. Hawnee 
Blub 228 A & B, 231 A, B, & C! 
Famous Lover: If thou unveil Thyself to me, Then lime I'll lind To come to thee. And if you're the friend Who's smiles 1 see, A 'friend or lover To thee I'll be. K.C. 
---·--------­
TAKE TIME .. weekend retf"eat • Fr. Dave Burrell . March 7 (Fri. eve) to March 9 (Sun. a.m.). Make reservations in campus ministry office (103 Library), $6 fee, S3 payed at registration. 
To Marybeth Patrice, Tim, Mary, Marc, Sue. & Dave, Thanks so much for a wonderful~ day. ·just 22 


the observer Monday, March 3, 1975 
Irish swamp Dayton; finish 18-8 
Cagers hoping lor NCAA tournament bid: selections announced Thursday morning 

rebounds. The sophomore from GRADUATING SENIORS: Dwight Clay Peter Crotty Tom VargaWas'hington D.C. connected on 13­27 shots to remain at least third in difficult for the Irish most of the Dame' s man-to-man press, the With 14:20 remaining, Notre Martin, coming off an ankle sprain the national scoring race. first half with their 2-3 zone Flyers battled to a 27-23 advantage Dame switched to a 1-3-1 defense J<'riday was the only player not to Dayton, suffering their worst defense. With sophomore Johnny with only 5:51 left in the period. to contain the slippery Davis. see action. season since 1948, made things Davis making short work of Notre Three Davis bombs later the Irish an
Two Washington natives put Dayton's Davis,Greg Corgan==================================================================================================================· things back in perspective, returned to more personal defense. All American guard prospect from 
however, as the Irish adjusted to Their fast-breaking offense had no Dt>troit, was devastating in his the zone. Freshman guard such problems, laying up eight first appearance in the Con­"Duck"' Williams used his weak unanswered points. vocation Center with 31 points. 
side position to hit Dantley on three The game moved to a rout with Phelps praised the "sophomore
The Irish Eye 
standout. "Davis is as good as any
consecutive back-door plays to put still eight minutes left as two Clay Notre Dame ahead to stay 3Q-27. A foul shots and two Dantley muscle guard in the country." Un­pair of free throws by Clay, a 20ft. shots upped the lead to 70-49. A fortunately, the other four starters 
crowd and Crotty 
jumper by Dave Batton, and a refurbished Notre Dame zone and combined for only 21 points.
==========================================================:=:=:=:=:=:The 
The loss dropped the Flyers' Last games of the season always seem to encourage a special effort record to a dismal 10-15 with thelayup by Williams increased the the running offense made things 
margin to nine points. !14-55 and ridiculous with 4:09 left. 
frOm the Notre Dame student body. And perhaps the proximity of the unfortunate prospect of facing
With only four seconds till in­Phelps responded to the crowd
participants along with the more personable absence of headgear and 15 I .ouisville Thursday in their season pounds of special pads creates a more emotional one in basketball. termission,· Phelps disputed and reinserted Clay as the Irish finale. Notre DamP finished its
Dayton's pressing defense enough moved toward the century mark.
"The students were great this afternoon," said assistant coach Dick regular season 18-8 with an im­DiBiaso after the Dayton game Saturday. "They were really with us." for a technical foul. Phelps saw A layup by Varga and a short hook­pressive 12-2 mark since January. Of course the Notre Dame crowd is typically an added attraction in the referee-baiting as part of shot by Roger Anderson pushed the As to post-season aspirations,
protecting his players, "They were score to 94-64. A jumper by Bill
itself what with the "silent" cheers, the balsa wood airplanes, the Phelps emphasized the brutal Irish 
really hitting Dantley; I refuse to Drew with fifteen seconds made it
frisbees. the boos and cheers for opposing cheerleaders, the boos and schedule. "We'll continue to play
let that happen. I went after it. I 100, and freshman Randy Haef­
('heers for our own cheerleaders, and Saturday,chants like, "We want the schedule that we do. That's 
Varga" and "We want Clay." do the complaining for the ner's layup ended the mismatch at what makes college basketballplayers." Davis converted the free 102-69.
Midway through the second half of Saturday's game, the ND student great. If you're going to be
throw to put the Flyers within
section showed its appreciation for two of the three graduating seniors by For Notre Dame, Clay followed penalized for playing a tough
eight, 40-32.
requesting their respective appearances in the ball game. And Digger Dantley in scoring with 14 ,points. schedule, then something is Phelps, never one to disappoint a partisan home crowd, readily obliged. In the second half, Dayton's Knight continued his excellent play wrong." man-to-man defense failed to slow with 12 points, nine rebounds, and When the NCAA announces it's
"It really inspired me," said Dwight after the game. "I loved it. This 
the Irish. Two baskets by Toby two blocked shots in only fifteen at-large bids Thursday morning,game is a game of emotion and the crowd can really do it for us." 
Knight, another long jumper from minutes of court time. Batton also !'helps and his cagers will find outBut even before Dwight was summoned, the students asked for Varga, Batton, and Dantley's follow-up made double figures with 10 points if their schedule gets any tougherthe popular blue team captain, who has seen all of 12 minutes playing gavethe· Irish a 48-36 advantage. and three more blocks. Ray this year.
time this season. 
·'It was different, that's for sure," offered Tommy, "but I didn't want Travel to Houghton todayDigger to feel he had to do anything about it. I wasn't embarrassed and I wasn't actually elated over it; I guess you could say I was kind of pleased by it." 
Skaters tie, lose to Big Red
Fortunately, Peter Crotty, the third senior had fouled out at this point, for had the students not shown equal appreciation for Peter's efforts, it by Bob Kissel But Wisconsin's B~ian Engblom would have added insult to the already unfair injury he received all year. narrowed the margm on another must wiri for any chance of homt• 
Crotty may perhaps be the hardest working member of this year's Both hockey. games' attendance power play goal, again on a ice during the playoffs and Notre squad. something most of the fans hardly recognize since the arena is sh<;>wed capacity crowds of 4287 slapshot from the blueline. With Dameapparently taking a breather seldom packed for daily practice. He's an unselfish individual and paid. Fans whu saw both games Moher screened bv one of his own befort> their playoff games with genuinely concerned with the team as a team. Peter's biggest con­'"':ere given tl'·.! proverbi~l nutshell defensemen, En.gblom hit the Michigan Tech, the outcome was in tribution this season may be the development of Dave Batton. In practice, view of the """:hole varsity hockey opening at 18:57. doubt for but a short while. <'rotty is the man Digger uses to tutor Batton. He shows him the ropes and season. The Jeers came to play Wisconsin's determination to The Badgers scored four times in gets him ready. Friday and tied the Wisconsin win, or at least tie, showed early in the opening period,t·ontrollingplay 
Yt•t Peter is the only one of the starting five who hears boos when he's Badgers 3-3.• but generally ~ere the final period. Frosh winger all twenty minutes With an ef­mtroduced. He's the brunt of caustic insults from the student section, the asleep m losmg 9-2 Saturday mght. Mark Capouch hit the post at 6:04. ft>ctive skating attack offensively same section that so gleefully cheers when Adrian Dantley scores 49 Len Moher was undoubedly the Len Moher darted out of the net and defensively. potnts. f~rst, second, and third stars of t~e midway through the period to stop 
J< nday game all wrapped up m a possible breakaway by Bob Clark Hamilton combined with"How do I feel when I hear the boos? Well, not too good," answers 
one 5'8" goalie from Wellesley, Lundeen. The Badgers' efforts teammates AI Pirus and BrianI'I'!Pr. "It's pretty demoralizing. I go out there and give it everything I Massachuse.tts. Moher ha.d a t~tal paid off on a power play goal on a Walsh on a beautifully executedgot and to be booed just doesn't feel too good. 
"But I understand. The Notre Dame crowd is a perfectionist crowd. of ~6 saves m the game, mcludmg rebound by DePrez. goal at 11:18. Tht•y t•xpect the best, and when I don't perform up to their standards, I 14 m the ten-minute overtime The Big Red tried and tried in Wisconsin continued their on-understand why they boo." session. the third period, but were slaught in the middle period, 
The Irish jumped to an early 1-0 frustrated by Moher, who made netting three goals by Engblom
"I'Pter has taken a lot of abuse from people all year," adds Digger. 
lead on a tipin goal by Tim Byers. some believable saves and one ;:l8l, and Murray Johnson <13:5]).
"And he's sucked it up the whole time and gone out there and played his 
Byers got his stick on a Mark Olive unbelievable save. Wth only two ND's final goal of the regularhest. People haven't been fair to Peter. But all the pain he's gone through centering pass and got the puck minutes left in the overtime, Brian season came at 9:19 when centerthis year will certainly help him later on in life. He'll be a great asset to high into the net, past Big Red Engblom blasted a shot at Lenny Geoff Collier set up winger Kevthis university." 
goalie Mike Dibble at 1:21. from 25 feet out. Nugent for his booming slapshot 20"Peter took it pretty well," says Varga. "I never heard him say Notre Dame's Clark Hamilton The rebound off the save popped feet out.
anything about it." 
gave the Irish fans another goal to out front where center Dave The Irish ended the regularI"or three years Crotty hasn't said anything about it. He regressed from 
cheer for midway through the Lundeen controlled the puck and season in seventh place with 23a starter sophomore year, when a last second basket robbed the Irish of second period. Brian Walsh took let go a somewhat hurried wrist points on the basis of a 10-19-3an NIT title, to a second teamer last season, to a starter and again a the slapshot from the point which shot on goal. Out of nowhere Moher WCHA record. Notre Dame travels reserve this year. · went wide right of Dibble. The suddenly dove across the goal mouth to Houghton. Michigan, home of"It's something you have to live with," says Crotty. "Sure I'm disap­puck bounded out to the left corner and tipped the shot up with his the Michigan Tech Huskies for thepointed, but we're a team and we have to play as a team. I just try to where Hamilton flipped the puck extended stick. Jack Brownschidle first round of playoff action.
accept my responsibility to the team." 
high into the far corner for the batted the puck into the corner, The two-game, total goal seriesTo be a non-playing co-captain isn't easy. Both Crotty and Clay know power play marker at 12:19. giving Lenny at least a moment's begins tomorrow and ends withhow difficult it is. Nonetheless, they've done a superb job with an 18-8 
Rookie Badger Craig Norwich rest. Wt>dnesday's gamt>. Tech finishedrecord to prove it. 
connected on an ensuing power "That was a superb hockey out their regular season by"You don't have to be the big star to get respect, and both Peter and play slapper from the blueline at game," exclaimed Lefty Smith. sweeping defending NCAADwight got it," says Varga. "I'd go so far as to say that it is more so with 15:35, cutting ND's edge to one "From the fan's point of view champs Minnesota 7-0, 5-4 over thethem than with Shumate last year. The guys respected Shu because he goal. there could not have been a better wt>ekend to clinch second place.
was a great player. They respect Peter and Dwight because they've been 
Dukie Walsh fluked a goal in at bargain." Both games will be broadcast live through it all before." 
16:31 of the middle period, Saturday's game was the other by WNDU's Pete Weber beginning And Peter's been through a little more. 
regaining ND's two-goal edge. side of the ND hockey coin. With at 7:30 o.m. 






