
Changes unlikely for calendar 
by Maureen Flynn St>nior Staff Reporter 
Prospects of changing next yf:'ar's academic calendar from a post-Labor Day to a Pre-Labor day start appear unlikely in light of the schedule of university events for next August. 
According to records in the ACC and the Calendar Office, the National Men's Shepherds Con­ference (Charismatic Renew a)) is scheduled for Aug. 24-28, 1976. The conferences expected to draw between 10,000 and 13,000 members and to require most of the univer­sity facilities including the residence halls. 
un1vers1ty of noire dome sl mory"s colle9e Vol. X, No. 49 Monday, November 10, 1975 

the Music Department, are proceeding on schedule (Photo by Chris Smith). 
Building continues on time 
by Maggif:' Waltman Staff Ht>porter 

Notre Oame will have a renovated music building and a new housing complex for graduate women by next fall if construction continues according to plan. 
Ac-cording to Fr. Jerome Wilson, director of business affairs, both building projects are on schedule in terms of budget and time-table. 
Wilson said that although the target date for <'ompletion of the Hoynes Hall renovation was set for ~'eb. 1, "March 1 is a more realistic elate." After that date, the Music Department should be moved into Hoynes, said Wilson. 
David lsele of the Music Department faculty said that the renovation is going 
"fantastically." "The entire department is ready to move into Hoynes Hall tomorrow if we could," he added. 
According to lsele, "everything is overused in our present location." O'Shaughnessy is not adequate for any of the music depart­ment's activities." 
lsele criticized the bad acoustics in 0 'Shaughnessy. He cited the low ceilings as the main acoustical problem in the department's present location. "There is nothing to prevent sound travel or insure sound absorption," Isele said. 
Isele also said that the Music Department is running our of room in O'Shaughnessy. He said that due to an increase in prominence of music on campus, there has been an increase in both the number of ensembles in the department and in enrollment for music appreciation courses. 
Isele attributed much of the impetus for the renovation of Hoynes Hall to Dr. William Cerny, department chairman. 
Isele said, "Cerny instigated the move. He realized that it was necessary for any growth to happen in the department." Isele said that Cerny has been working on the project since he came to Notre Dame three years ago. ,Hoynes Hall is perfect for our purpose," Isele added. 
The Music Department will have three time 
Calendar Office records show Sept. 3-6 reserved for Freshman Orientation, with registration on the 7th and the start of classes on Wed., Sept. 8. 
According to Administrative sources, the calendar for 1976-77 features a post-Labor Day start, a Saturday class and final exams past Dec. 20. The lateness of Labor Day next year, said the sources, requires these measures to insure the desired number of class days. 
Early start "nearly impossible" 
Academic Commissioner Mike Gassman edmitted that a pre­Labor Day start in 1976 is "nearly 
the space in Hoynes Hall than in its present location on the second floor of O'Shaughnessy. According to Isele, there will be twenty practice rooms <there are twelve in O'Shaughnessy>, and each full-time faculty member will have his own office. 
"The architects have been very agreeable to what the Music Department needs," Isele said. Precautions have been taken for sound insulation. Wall-to-wall carpeting and floor­length draperies will be installed to absorb the sound. The building will be centrally air conditioned for the preservation of in­struments and the comfort of people par­ticipating in summer music workshops. 
Isele said the Department has kept as close as possible to the budget. "Every inch of space is used, and all new furniture is func­tional and guaranteed for life," he said. 
A small kitchen, Isele said, may be inst­alled which might overshoot the budget somewhat. He added that costs can probably be cut in other areas. Isele cited reductions in carpeting and drapery costs as possible ways to l'olve the problem if a kitchen is built. 
"The ~enovation is happening just in time," 
Isele s~1d. He added, "It will be a greatly 
appreciated asset to the Music Department
and to Notre Dame. 

Graduate Housing 
Construction of the housing complex for graduate women is also going according to plan. 
Dr. Robert Gordon, vice-president of Advanced Studies, said, "Sept. 1, 1976 is a very realistic delivery date." He cited this year's long Indian summer as a big help in construction activity. 
According to Gordon, the contractor plans to pour the concrete foundations before Thanksgiving. Once the interior walls are built, coustruction will not be held up by bad weather conditions. 
Gordon said the use of Badin Hall was adequate for one year, but the needs of (continued on page 7) 
impossible" unless the Shepherds Conference can be rescheduled. 
"If we started before Labor Day," Gassman speculated, "it would probably be on Sept. 1. We just can't get the freshmen registered in that time." 
A Sept. 1 date for the start of classes would call for Freshmen to arrive for orientation the same day that the conference members are scheduled to leave the residence halls. Freshmen taking entrance examinations would have to arrive several days earlier. According to maintenance officials, at least a 
week is required to prepare  the  
dormitories  for  student  oc­ 
cupation.  



South Bend history recounted by local journalist at SMC talk 
by Christie Herlihy Staff Reporter 
What do you think of when someone mentions South Bend'? A bus depot on the way to the Scottsdale Mall, a place to correct bank statements or buy sports equipment or splurge on pizza? 
If you can't mentally hurdle Corby's or 
Nickies then you should have leaned back 
in one of the comfortable chairs in SMC's 
Stapleton Lounge Sunday evening and 
listened to Philip Ault sketch South Bend 
history. 

The city rose from the roaming grounds of buffalo which La Salle passed through. It flourished because of a farm equipment aristocracy and now the present center of insurance companies and banks is multi­ethnic community concerned about "the quality of life of its people." 
Philip Ault, assist. editor of the South 
Bend tribune and eight-year resident of the 
city has done in-depth research of the area 
for the paper. He is secretary of the North 
Indiana Historical Society. A graduate of 
De Pauw University, he is currently 
writing his eleventh historical book. 
"If you were sitting here 10 to 12 thousl\nd years ago you would be frozen 
inside a mile thick sheet of glacieral ice," 
Ault said which didn't seem incredible 
given South Bend weather. South Bend 
gets its name from the large bend in the 
St. Joseph River which the glacier carved 
at the same time as the Great Lakes. 
Miami and Potawatami Indians hunted 
the dense forests for bear, deer and buf­
falo. Buffalo were especially plentiful. 
Parkovash Street derives its name from a 
bad English pronunciation of the French 
word for "field of " 
Dean of Administraton Leo Corbaci said that calendars for 1976-77 and 1977-78 were drawn up last spring in accordance with the guidelines established by the Academic Council at its February meeting. 
"The guidelines were settled last year for a three-year period," stat­ed Corbaci. "In the absence of other guidelines, we presume those of the previous year are still in effect." 
On February 11, 1975 the Academic Council approved the following principles for calendar­making: ---a post-Labor Day start ---only one break in the semester ---the autumn break be made around the Thanksgiving holiday. 
To change the guidelines, at least ten members of the Academic Council must agree to review them. However, even action by the Council may not prove effective in view of the scheduling conflict. 
In 1972, the Academic Council approved a pre-Labor Day start for the 1973-74 academic year. A post-Labor Day start was scheduled when University ad­ministrators discovered that the proposed calendar conflicted with a previously-scheduled Mobile Home Show in the ACC. 
Gassman noted that Fr. James 
Three hundred years ago, La Salle, the famous french adventurer and trader picked up his canoes and transversed what is now U.S. 31 and Michigan St. on his way from the St. Joseph river to a nearby stream which flows into the Illinois River and eventually the Mississippi. 
The area will be celebrating La Salle's landing next year. It will be a big gala affair. No one will even mention how La Salle got lost wandering around Mishawaka," Ault quipped. 
Leeper Park near Michigan Ave. is the site of Pierre Navarre's cabin, the first settler of South Bend in 1820. The city naturally grew as the result of the passageway to the Illinois River. It was also a stop on the Michigan Road which connected the heavily populated areas of Southern Indiana with the north. 
Indus tria I Start 

The St. Joseph River provided water power needed to run the saw mills which flourished on Michigan St., the neucleus of the growing South Bend. Industries, at­tracted by the plentiful timber located here, established a farm equipment arist­ocracy: the Studebaker wagon factory, the Birdsell Clover Huller Company, and the Oliver Plow Company. 
John Studebaker started his business with capital raised during the 1850 California Gold Rush. He didn't strike gold but sold wheel barrows to the miners from which he made "a potful of money" according to Ault. The Wagon business flourished because of Civil War contracts and soon Studebaker became the "dominant force in the town." {t later 
(continued on page 6) 
T. Burtchaell, Uniersity provost, has cited 72 as tht' desired number of class days, with 75 as the op­timum. The late Labor Day date, Gassman observes shortens the number to 70 days. 
"You can start after Labor Day and get two semester breaks," 
Gassman said, "If Labor Day falls on the 1st, 2nd, or 3rd, but it's impossible if itfalls on the 4th, 5th, or 6th." 
Gassman said he intended to make some calls to see if anything could be done about the calendar for 1976-77. "The big question," he stated, "is what is the story on the conference?" 
Gassman also stated that the Academic Commission will be conducting Its poll on the calendar issue at the end of this week or the beginning of next. Among other things, the survey will attempt to determine when students want their breaks and how long they want their breaks and how long they want them, Gassman said. 
On the basis of these results and the replies from other colleges to a questionnaire concerning their calendars, Gassman said, "We will draw up two or three possible calendars, listing the starting dates, endin£ dates, dates of vacation, etc." 

the observer Monday, November 10, 1975 
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON"<AP) --The federal government is looking into the possiblility of trying to break up the giant General Motors Corp., according to a government source. 
Antitrust action against the world's largest automaker repor-. tedly has been recommended by two bureaus of the Federal Trade Commission. 
MADRID, Spain <AP) -Gen. Francisco Franco was reported making "positive progress" Sunday, 48 hours after his second major abdominal operation in four days. His doctors said they were astonished. 
''The general's resistance is exceptional," said his chief surgeon, Dr. Manuel Hidalgo Huertas. "Not only I, but his whole medical team is surprised." 
an campus taday 
3:30pm-·  faculty colloquium, "some reflections on the case­study approach in theology" by tjaard holmes and oliver williams, sponsored by theology dept. library lounge.  
4:15pm-­ film, "white heat" with james cagney, sponsored by speech and drama dept. $1, engineering auditorium.  
4:45pm-­ marine corps celebration, marine corps birthday celebration with edward w. krause, guest speaker, sponsored by nrotc, library auditorium.  
7 pm ..  chess meet, against Elkhart city chess club, math and computing center.  rm 227  
7pm-­ MECHA meeting, La Fortune basement  
7 pm-­ lecture, "blacks in higher education: built In head­winds" by dr. robert williams, washington unlv. of st. louis, sponsored by black studies and psychology dept., library auditorium.  
8 pm-­ travelogue series, "mark twain in switzerland" by dick reddy, sponsored by scottish rite, tickets $1.50, o'laughlin aud.  
8 pm-­ lecture, "sherlock holmes" by john bennett shaw in  

washington hall, sponsored by student union. 
8 & 10 pm--film, "one day in the life of ivan denlsovich", In engineering auditorium, sponsored by humanities seminar. 
Hassan declares march over; sends 'army' home 
AGADIR, Morocco <AP) ­King Hassan II announced Sun­day that his "March of Con­quest" into the Spanish Sahara had "achieved its objective" and called on the 350,000 volun­teers he dispatched to the neighboring territory to return to Morocco. 
In exchange for the with­drawal of the marchers, the Spanish government was ex­pected to announce its intention to transfer the administration of the colony to the United Na­tions, which U.N. Secretary­General Kurt Waldheim had proposed earlier as a tempora­ry solution. 
"From now on, my dear people, we must solve our prob­lems in a different manner," the 44-year-i>ld monarch said in a nationwide radio address on 

' ' 
the fourth day of the unarmed invasion. 
The king said he was return­ing Monday to his Marrakech palace to resume negotiations 
( ¥ Tlie Observerl 
Night Editor: Tim O'Relley 
Assistant Night Editor: 
Martha Fanning Layout Staff: Anne Barrett Day Editor: Brian Clancy Copy Reader: Jack D'Aurora Features: Val Zurblls, Chris Smith Sports: Bill Brink Typists: Karen : .Chlames, Marie McCarthy, Terri Harlan, Candy Frankovelgla Compugraphic: Bob Stein­metz Night Controller: Howard 
l Halle Ad Layout: Joe Gralf 
J 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased 
tor 10 dollars per semester ( 18 dollars per yearl from The Ob­server. Box Q, Notre Dame, In diana, 46556. Second Class postage paid. Notre Dame, IN ~556. 

'Meet the Press' anniversary 



Ford discusses firings, election 
WASHINGTON <AP) -Pres­ident Ford challenged Ronald Reagan and any other White House rivals Sunday to contest him in all of the 30 Republican presidential primary elections next year. 
He said candidates owe it to 

the  voters  to  do  that  rather  
than  "entering  some  and  duck­ 
ing others."  

Ford also acknowledged for the first time that dis­agreements and tension within the administration led to his de­cision to fire Secretary of De­fense James R. Schlesinger a week ago. 
He did so minutes after de­claring again that policy dis­putes were not involved in his shakeup of top-echelon national security personnel. 
The President answered ques­tions in an hour-long appear­
ance on the NBC program "Meet the Press." It marked the 28th anniversary of the tele­vision interview program.
Ford said that over the last month he had seen "a growing
tension" building in his admin­
istration. He did not mention 
specific issues, but Schlesinger
is known to have been sharply opposed to planned reductions in the next defense budget. 
In addition, there have been repeated reports that the de­fense secretary had misgivings~ about administration accom­odations with the Soviet Union in the name of detente. 
The President said he thinks the changes he made will create a better atmosphere and help him do a better job. 
Ford expressed his own con-least 30 and probably 31. be secondary to meeting his re­

"That doesn't mean I will sponsibilities as President. campaign in every primary,"· And a new federal campaign he said. law limits spending to $10 mil­
Both time and money will lion, which isn't enough to fi­preclude that. Ford said what­nance active campaigns in all ever campaigning he does will primary st~tes. 
TODAY ONLY 

~HICANO GRADUATE OPPORTUNITIE_~ AT WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY A Recruiter Will Be On Campus: 
AT: 11th FLOOR MEMORIAL 

LIBRARY CONFERENCE ROOM ON: MONDAY. NOV. 10,1975 FROM 9 A.M. TO 5 P.M. 
AYUDALE ATU RAZA YAL MOVIMIENTC 
------------------.
1. PEACH TREE I 
I 1
1 • DINING ROOM • 
RANDALL'S 1 I
1 
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT I
I · 1
I TUESDAY NIGHT SPECIAL 
-SPAGHETTI AND MEATBALLS & SALAD ' I 1 ALL YOU CAN EAT
I 

WITH THIS COUPON $.05
I .. $1 9 5 FOR FIRST BEER ( WITH 
• DINNER) .. lwu••..llt••m••f 

---------·

r--R-I_V_E_R_B_E_N_D__P_U_B__,t' 
f -PRESENTS-t f "NOTRE DAME ENTERTAINMENT" f 
on the future of the disputed territory. 
He said the volunteers who have set up camps along the border and just inside the Span­ish territory would all be with­drawn to their base camp at Tarfaya on the Moroccan side of the border. 
The king's 10-minute speech made no reference to his talks in Agadir Saturday with Span­ish cabinet minister Antonio Carro Martinez, but Moroccan sources said the two reached an informal understanding. Spain, planning to give up the territory it colonized in 1884, fa­vors a U.N.-administered refer­endum by the 80,000 in­habitants. Morocco claims the phosphate-rich northern part and Mauritania the southern and eastern portions. 

pressured  into having  an  agree-II  
ment  by  a  precise  date,"  he  
said.  

With Reagan, the former Cal­ifornia governor, planning to announce on Nov. 20 that he will challenge Ford for the GOP nominaton next year, the President repeated that he in­tends to enter every presiden­tial primary, which means at 

Engineers:Find out about the Nuclear Navy. 
If you think you have the ability and desire to master nuclear engineering, the Navy's Nuclear Propulsion Program has openings for about 200 outstanding college graduates. There's a Navy Recruiting Officer ready to give you aII the details on how you can become someone special in the new Navy. 
Lt. Bill Hughes will be :nterviewing at the Placement Center on November 18 and 19. 
cern about a projected $7 bil-& & lion congressional cut in the ' ' current defense budget, but" JACK KELLEHER -FRI & SAT ' said it would be premature for ' 9 PM 'TIL ? ' 
him to threaten a veto. 

f • f 
On a foreign policy point, the · ~res_ident said there is_ little t DAVE SHAHEEN-TUES & THURS. f 
hkehhood that strategic arms A A limitation negotiations will ' 9 PM 'TIL ? ' progress to the point that So-f f viet leader Leonid Brezhnev 24 OZ DRAFT $ 60 
will come to Washington for a 

f • f 
summit and signing ceremony f f 
th~o~~a~.aid that isn't neces-l 441 E. LASALLE AT NILES AVE. • 
sarily bad. ''I want a good ----------------­agreement rather than to be r.===lF~:S55tt5mmmmmzfF;;==~~==~~==~=;i$r;,===11 

CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE • ZIP: 60611 • TEL: (312) 944-7506 
Add one dollar for shipping and handling plus sales tax where applicable American Express • BankAmericard 



Monday, November 10, 1975 
the observer 
3

Handled by law students 
Legal aid available to ND-SMC students 

ArmyROTC letsyou qualify for a double life! 
You can earn a commission while you earn your degree. 
And that doubles your vocational opportunities. You can pursue either a civilian career or serve as an officer. 
Either way, Army ROTC trains you for success. You learn valuable leadership and management skills which usually aren't offered by any courses. 
You make no commitment when you enroll in the Basic Course. You can ace it or flunk it. Or, you can drop it. That all depends upon you. 
But you owe it to yourself to look into Army ROTC. It might be your thing. At least it's worth checking into. 
Freshmen can preregister Nov 13-20, 
1975, for semester.  Army ROTC during the Spring Army ROTC notre dame  
notre dame. ind.46556  
~  phone:  283-6264  

\_Jill) Army ROTC. Learn what it takes to lead. 
by Marianne Schulte Staff Reporter 

Case 1: A female ND grad student living off campus drives up to the main campus gate late one night and requests permission to drop off her friend at her dorm on the South Quad. 
When refused a campus pass, she then requested the security officer that an escort be provided for her friend to accompany her on the long, dimly-lit walk to her dorm across campus. 
When denied the escort, the girl becomes angered, argues and directs a vulgarity towards the guard, who responds by taking down her license number and issuing the student a ticket. A report is filed by the security guard and recorded in the student's personal file kept by the university, and the student is unable to file a counter-report. 
Case 2: An eighteen-year-old SMC student, with friends in Niles, Michigan, allegedly having a little too much to drink is forcibly pullf'd from the car by a licensed police officer and charged with public intoxication. The girl reportedly suffers bruises on her arm as a result of her brusque removal from the car. 
Case 3: A male ND student living off-campus is smoking pot with several housemates and friends in the living room of his house when the landlord bursts in unexpectedly and demands that they vacate the house within twenty-four hours. 
Case .J: Two married students living in University Village are having marital problems and are considering the possibility of a legal separation, but cannot afford the services of an attorney. 
Washington Univ holds Chicano recruiting today 
Prof. Salvador Ramirez of Washington State University will be recruiting Chicano students for graduate opportunities today from R a.m. to 5 p.m. in the conference room on the 11th floor of the Memorial Library. 
Opportunities for Chicano students on the graduate level are available in many fields including biology, educa lion, child dt•velopment, business ad­ministration, the fine arts, Chicano Studies, anthropology, chemistry and many others. 
type of case. 
The NLADA does not operate under ND law school funds, but each year must obtain a separate grant from a private donor or the federal government to cover operating expenses. Expenses range from gas money for students handling cases to printing costs of consent and waiver forms. 
Grant money is also used for speaking engagements by prominent local and nationally­known attorneys. Speakers from 
DRINK 'N' DROWN with FANTASMA 

the Whitehouse In 
8 miles north of the State Line Take 31 to Niles then north on 51, 3 miles 683 -9842 
Tailoring Done at 

RICHMOND BROS. 
Scottsdale Mall 
291-4681 
the prosecutor's office in South Bend give speeches and seminars and last year the associatio~ brought F. Lee Bailey to rsunpus. 
_lJ~i~ersity Referrals is only one 

diVISIOn of the Legal Aid office which has been in operation since 1963. Other divisions include work at the prosecutor's office, post­conviction remedy, community service (St. Joseph County Legal Aid), Cassopolis County Michigan Legal Aid, and legal aid for migrant farm workers in Michigan. 

--~----------------------------------·~ ---~~ 
Monday, November 10, 1975 


Little damage incurred from Death March 
by Joe Lacosta Starr Reporter 
The Senior Death March this weekend resulted in only one broken window at Bridget Mc­Guires as opposed to the usual 200 to 300 dollars worth of damage inflicted in the past at the local bars. 
The manager of Corby's com­mented that this was one of the most organized marches ever. 
The Death March entailed spending an hour at each of four bars. The-March started at Bridget McGuires at 2 p.m. At 3 p.m. it went to Corby's and the drinking and singing were complimented by a strip act by two male students who stripped to their shorts. 
The police greeted the crowd at Nickies but soon left with no in­cidents. The last stop was the Library, marked by dancing and singing of the Alma Mater and the fight song. 
In addition to the March the Senior class held the Last Hurrah Armory Party. The Party was an old fashioned Armory party with more beer on the floor than was consumed. The group "Faun" provided entertainment, but towards the end of the party the students waded in pools of beer and sang the Alma Mater and fight song. 
Senior Class President Augie Grace was pleased with the suc­cess of the Death March and the Armory party. He cited cooperation and concern as the reasons for the smoothness of both events. 
There were two unusual in­
cidents at Saturday's game: a new 
approach to the usual stripper act 
and use of a fire extinguisher. 
Saturday's stripper, in contrast to 
the previous strippers, started 
with his clothes off and proceeded 
to put them on. The senior section, 
after being signalled to light 
matches at a certain point in the 
game, was subsequently doused 
with water. 



Iconcerts! 
"Wl•'re having just as good, if not better Nash in no way forced the relatively un­time than you, playing up here," David familiar material into the format of their Crosby announced to the A.C.C. audience a show. As a matter of fact, they didn't get short time after he and Graham Nash around to it till the end of the first set with started their performance Saturday night. Graham Nash's "Mama Lion." Since they With this in mind, Cosby & Nash played a were playing with the same people who two-set. twenty-four song show that in-had helped them make the album, all the duded numbers ranging from Crosby, cuts off Wind on the Water were presented Stills. Nash and Young, to their solo flawlessly. attempts to their new album, Wind on David Crosby's "Carry Me" showed off 
tht• Water. the harmonizing of Crosby and Nash as did 
However. it was another Crosby com-Nash's protest song against the killing of nwnt that showPd why both he and Nash whales. "Wind on the Water." Both of haw b£'t•n enjoying playing their entire these, presented during the acoustic part fall tour. "You can understand how we get of the show, were backed up nicely by off playing music with guys likethis," the Craig Doerge on piano and synthesizer. mustachioed rhythm guitar player said of "Take the Money and Run," a tune about his backup band. And it is easy to see, for "Hollyweird" and "Lost Angeles" ac-although Crosby & Nash themselves can cording to Crosby, was perhaps the best Kivt• a good show. the musicians they had Pxample of how well the backup band playing with them helped make this supports Crosby and Nash. Nash sang the performance one of the better concerts at lead vocal with Crosby harmonizing while the A.C.C. this year. the two played acoustic piano and electric 
Huss Kunkl'l on drums, Tim Drummond rhythm guitar respectively. Doerge on bass. Danny Kootch on lead guitar, played a counter harmony on electric Craig Dol'rge on keyboards and David piano to Nash's acoustic while Kunkel and Lindley on fiddle, slide, acoustic and Drummond kept a steady, fast beat going Pl('ctric guitars all played on the Wind on throughout the song. David Lindley the \\'att·•· album and they were, unlike highlighted the song by givmg solos on presented somewhat differently. Instead Crosby 8· Nash presented a different most back-up bands, quite familiar with the both electric slide and fiddle. The song of the usual piano .accompaniment on image of themselves Saturday night as matl•rial. While Crosby and Nash sang sounded as tight as a recording besides "Simple Man," Nash played acoustic they did on their new album Wind on the thl•ir usual flawless harmonies, Kunkel, having the energy of a good live per-guitar and harmonica and Lindley joined \\'att·r Two years ago, the pair played a 
Kootch and Company supported them formance. in with a beautifully low-keyed fiddle. str~ight acoustic set and an electric one, perfectly. The two ex-members of Crosby, With the aid of these fine backup "Prison Song," nom ally played with a full wh1ch was basically jamming. This show Stills. Nash and Young showed their ap-musicians, Crosby and Nash added some band, was given a solo presentation by was a mixture of both. It presented new predation time and time again by giving twists to a few of their familiar hits. "The Nash. material, different versions of older songs 
the group solo efforts and leading the ap-Lee Shore," normally an acoustic ballad, After shutting up some very obnoxious and familiar favorites. The musicians had plau~e for them after each of these solos. was speeded up by Russ Kunkel's and Craig hecklers, Crosby and Doerge collaberated a lot to do with it, but the focus of the show 
l•'ormat-wise, the first set consisted of Doerge's jazz-like playing of the drums on "a song about winning. "Doerge gave a is on Crosby and Nash and they responded nine '·plectric" based songs. A short break and piano respectively. "Military Mad­good showing of himself on piano while as usual --enthusiastically. Crosby followed, then Nash and Crosby each ness," originally another softie, was Crosbygave a soft, yet emotional vocal. alternately joked about songs and .explained played some acoustic numbers before the played as a straight ahead rocker, However, the two also sang some of them as well as bouncing around the stage. rest of the band joined in full to finish out featuring Kootch on lead guitar. Kootch their songs as they have for years. Nash, although not as flambouyant thP show. also gave another "rockin"' solo on "Guinnervere" with its haunting lyrics, projects the image of a person enjoying 
Although a large number of the songs Crosby's "Wooden Ships." slowed things down in the middle of the himself immensely. This feeling, if 
came from their new album, Crosby & Some of their softer songs were also concert, and Crosby sang his trademark presented right, can lead to a highlyballad, "Triad." Nash did a pleasant receptive audience, which is what anyrendition of "Lady of the Isle" and was artist likes playing to. On Saturday night,joined by Crosby for the sentimental Crosby & Nash were playing to such an 
crowd pleaser "Our House." audience. 

,v·
. 
i . 
E 
Vl VI 
.... 
.r. 
u 
:>. 
.0 
VI 
0 
I~ 
a._ 


Chess club holds tournament 
The Notre Dame Chess Club will 
sponsor a tournament against the 
Eldhart City Chess Club tonight at 
7 p.m. 
Anyone interested in par­
ticipating is welcome to come and 
is asked to bring a chess set if 
possible. 

gorgeous inside," Ault drooled. "It · is indeed a remnant of the past." 
Singer Sewing Co. later established itself in South Bend as well, and soon timber was not only going into wagons and plow han­dies but sewing cabinets as well. 
South Bend is unique, Ault emphasized, because of the relat­ively peaceful mingling of the various ethnic groups. "Sociologists have a special in­terest in this area because of easy intermingling." There was only a small flair up in the 60's during the civil rights movement. "I think it is a tribute to the city that people cal live together as well as they do." Ault praised. 

South Bend ·careened close to financial disaster in 1963 when Studebaker, unable to compete 
· with Ford and GM markets, an­nounced its closing. "Working at Studebaker was a . family thing. Three generations from grandfather to granason often went to work together and when the company closed, the city almost fell to pieces. Even in its bad days Studebaker employed seven to eight thousand people who s~ddenly ~ound temselves not only without a JOb but without a pension as well. The major's rescue committee composed of concerned businessmen rescued the city. 

''I sold my Leisure Suit through the Observer classifieds!" SELL IT IN THE CLASSIFIEDS ­THEY GET RESULTS . 10,000 people in the N. communitv reached daily 
Discovering that many of the former Studebaker employees were unable to read or write, the committee organized the Indiana Training Center, an elaborate re­training program. 
Cultural Activity 

E. M. Morris of the Associates, a nationwide underwriting firm saved what is now the Morris Civic Auditorium, the cultural center for the city symphony and symphonic choir, and the road shows at­tracted by the Broadway Theater League. 
In late 1977 the cultural center will hopefully move, to the Centry Center, a 14 million dollar complex of plate glass and steel designed by a New York architect. The center will be located on the very site which gave birth to South Bned­on the slopes of the river where 
U.S. Route 31 enters the downtown district. 
"It is an extensive attempt to pull together the cultural elements of South Bend," Ault said. 
ARMANDO FORMERLY OF ROCCO'S BARBER SHOP, IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUS TO GIVE YOU THE CUT OR STYLE THAT YOU WANT 
d/-'tmando'j_ 23a'tbe't & dfai't ~tyfe ~hop 
OPEN SIX DAYS A WEEK 
MONDAY THRU FRIDAY 8 TO 5,30 • SATURDAY 8 TO 4 

PERSONALIZED SERVICE 
ARMANDO FEMIA 


-COUPON­

20% OFF ALL MERCHANDISE WITH THIS COUPON & STUDENT I.D. 
TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER STORE 

I~ 
OFFER EXPIRES NOV. 19th 
CC!I's . 
mens shop, 1nc. 


BOXED 
CARDS 
AT THE CORNER OF McKINLEY AND HICKORY 

~ ffi!FJ1fjfi}W ~~~~ ~~ ~ [!fj ~~ ~~~~_.,fut \ 
~\· ~ .. ~.. 

town & country · ,-~ _ _.-. .:z shopping center ­
CARDS BOOKS MAGAZINES 
ART SUPPLIES MACRAME BEADS JUTE-WAXED LINEN NOVELTIES 
2340 miracle lane mishawaka, indiana 46544 
219/256-0111 




GRAND OPENING 
BULOVA ACCUTRON 
FREE 

WATCH DRAWING 
-SIGN UP NOW ­

-20% OFF on all Turquoise Jewelry -20% OFF on all Diamond and Opal Jewelry -15% OFF on all clocks -FREE Accuracy test of your watch 
Join our earring & ring club (Buy 5 and get one free) ASK FOR DETAILS 
HIRTH'S HOUSE OF TIME 

919 McKinley Hwy. College Square (Across from Town & Country) MISHAWAKA Phone 255 -3817 
•lllonday, November 10, 1975 
the observer 
7 

.. 


CLC looks for help to find campus problems 
by Phil ('ackley Starr Reporter 
The Campus Life Committee !CLCl is looking for students and other members of the Notre Dame community to identify problems related to campus life and to become involved in ad-hoc com­mittees dealing with these problems, according to John Reid, 
committee chairman. 
The CLC is one of five standing committees of the Student Life Council !SLCl. The committee has a two-fold purpose: to respond to problems related to campus life, and to become involved in planning 
New buildings on schedule 
(continued from page 1) 
graduate students make the new complex necessary: "Badin is an old hall with old facilities." 
Plans for new graduate housing have been circulating since last year when 144 women had to move from Lewis Hall to Badin to make room for incoming Freshmen. 
Two committees discussed the housing problem. Gordon said the eommittees strongly endorsed a townhouse idea." Such a plan is less institutionalized than a dor­mitory. The students felt it would he more like home," he comment­Pd. 
The new complex will consist of thirty-six townhouse units, each housing four women. The two­story units will have four private bedrooms, a shared bathroom, kit­chen and a living room. 
The complex will also include laundry facilities and a commons room. The Bulla Road farmhouse, which now houses Phides Publishers, will be renovated for this purpose. 
(iordon said the cost is higher than anticipated: 'Due to the location on Bulla Road, utilities had to be brought into an area where they didn't previously ex­sist. "Other than the utility ex­pense, however, the University has been able to keep within reasonable sight of the estimated expense, according to Gordon. 
Gordon also cited the location as a major feature of the complex. "It is remote enough from the l'Xhileration in undergrad dorms, yet it is close to the library." It will be very convenient for the students who live there and will encourage their full participation in the University." 
Preachers asked to leave campus 
by Dave Heno Starr Reporter 
Two representatives from a local South Bend church arrived on the campus around noon last Friday with the apparent intent to bring the message of Christ to the Notre 
Dame community. 
Approximately 100 people gat­
hered to listen to the two men on 
the South Quad between the 
Business and Engineering 
Buildings. The crowd was noted to 
be somewhat amused with the 
preaching, according to one of the 
bystanders. 
The Dean of Students was notified of the appearance of the two men and notified Security of their presence. The two men left after Security informed them of . the University's Open Speaker Policy, which make an approved invitation a pre-requisite for jpublic speaking on campus' by visitors. 
Mr. Richard Conklin, · director 
of publicity, stressed the fact that 
no arrest was made and that the 
gentlemen were in no way forcibly 
escorted off the campus. 
After they left, an unidentified 
Notre Dame law student called the 
Dean of Students and received 
permission to invite the two men 
back to the University. The two 
churchmen accepted and 
returned later that afternoon. 
solutions to these problems. Health Services. 

The use of ad-hoc committees Reid stated that these are high has been developed to give in-priority concerns, but are "by no creased flexibility and ef-means exclusive" of other fectiveness in achieving this problems which he hopes students purpose, Reid said. will bring to the attention of the 
Several areas of concern have CLC. 
already been identified. A number "These are areas that relate to 
of the areas focus on issues con-all students: the quality of campus 
tained in the COUL report, which life and how to improve that 
was recently referred to the SLC. quality," Reid stresses. "The 
They include: the need for neutral more involvement of people that 
space, woman's and club sports, there is on the <ad-hoc) com­
financial assistance to students, mittees, the more success there 
the University Village and the will be." Walsh proposal to make use of Other members of the committ­residence halls for academic ee are Carole Moore, asst. prof. of purposes. history, William Sexton, assoc. 
An additional area deals with the prof. of business organization and 
possibility of student advisory management, and Ed Byrne, 
groups to certain departments in student body president. Reid is 
the University, such as Campus asst.directorof Student Activities. 
Ministry Student Affairs and Reid said the strenl!th of the 

• VALERIE'S RESTAURANT
• 
801 S. MICHIGAN. SO. BEND

•
• 
(NEXT TO GILBERTS) 289 -0681

•
• 
BREAKFAST SERVED

:OPEN 
ANYTIME

• 
Mon thru Sat : 5 am to 9 pm 

• 
II am to 7 pm Sunday


•
:JTALlAN SPECIALTIES : 
:sPAGHETTI 
• Saun' 1.65 Meat Sauce 1.80 Meat Balls 1.90 
•MOSTACIOLLI SaueP u;5 !\kat Sauce 1.80 Meat Balls 1.90 
~ASAGNA 2.35 RAVIOLI 1.75 
e 1lliruwrs inc. Italian bread &salad and soupl 
:PASTA FAGIOLII(italiantwan soupl .45 & .65 
: 
•: • 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
committee is that it fs a small enough group that valuable in­teraction and work can be done. Larger projects necessitate a wider range of personnel and expertise -therefore the move to ad-hoc committees. 
Certain CLC members are focusing on specific issues. Moore has responsibility for the Walsh proposal and woman's sports; Sexton has the University Village and club sports; Byrne has student 
advisory groups,  and  Reid  has  
neutral space assistance.  and  finan cial  

Cinemam Presents 
·"ALL QUIET ON: THE WESTERN FRONT" 
TUESDAY and WEDNESDAY 8-10 P.M. ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM ADMISSION 1.00 

,-----------------1 

t LOUIE'S
t 
N.D. AVE.
t 
t 

t OFA DEAL 
f f f f 
: t 
: f-~~~~~~ilo!(' : f 
• f 

:ITALIAN SAUSAGE SANDWICH I.lrt 'ALL NIGHT s •MEAT BALL SANDWICH 1.00 : t  A  
: USE OUR LIGHTED PARKING LOT : ~DOORS NORTH ON MICHIGAN ST..  f DRINKS AND PIZZAf  
• :  CARRY OUT ORDERS WELCOME A QUALITY RESTAURANT OPERATED BY'  : t • f OPEN  6:00  REDUCED  f f  

~ • • j~~~~~ ~~~J).~Ej'i~i.S~~Tj~~-~~. • •: t_-----------_____J 
~···········~··
r_.• !IJere IS a ••• : difference!!! ~ 
• ~MRE POit: e 
••• MCAT OvtrlSrtan :.
ft1 ol eaperornct:. OAT lllds':ctn :. 
ftI Small c~nts : LSAJ Volum~nous hamt :
: GRE :
study;•ttrials 
: •~SB coursn that.,, •
• ft1U condantlr upclltell • 
: OCAT "'',:,"""lor i
• 
rt¥11WS Of elliS e

• 
cnaT 


ltnons lnd lor UH.• rft1 or supplementary •
: FLEX mater~~· i 
e Mlkt·UPS lor
: ECFMG 
mosnd ltssons : 
: SAT : 
NAT'LMEDBOS i
: .......... 
• 
Mou cla...s uart 8 -eks e e proo• to E.am e e !>prong & Fell compacts • 

• 
Some cou•,.• offered on : • Me1o• Campu,., • 


: TEST DATES : e MCAT 5-76 NMB'S 6-76 e e OAT 1·76 ECFMG 1-76 e e LSAT 2·76 FLEX 12·75 e e GRE 1·76 OCAT 1·76 e 
• ATGSB 1-76 CPAT 2·76 e e SAT 1-76 VAT 12-75 :


: . . . .. . . . .. 
e INDIANAPOLIS e 
e 6620 Greenahire Drive • e lndianapolia, Ind. 46220 • • 1:1171 842-1267 • 
• CHICAGO CENTER :




:iJii:fl!'.
i!!,~" a•! ~ 
• I(ST ""'f'AIIATI()H • 
• -CIAUSI5SINI'f 11:a • 
----
1:1121~-...·····-;j.,.,-c,... ·n -....oo u $ 
C•lllft 

CLASSIFIED RDS 
NOTICES 

The Ultimate in comfort. Jasper pants only SlOat Jennifer's, now at Scotsdale. upper level, across from Scotch Mist. 
Jewelry 33 percent off..turquoise, sterling, coral and diamond engagement sets. 234·7063. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND S20· $150, l·day waiting period, 1 percent interest, due in 30 days, LaFortune basement, M·F 11: 15· 12:15 
Earn extra money part time on commission basis, for info call Bob 289·5104. 
Will do typing, experienced. Term papers. manuscripts, etc. Call 233­8512. 
Quality stereo equipment-30-60 percent off-factory direct­guaranteed to beat any price in town! Golden Dome Record & Music Co. 809 Flanner, Ph. 1492 
BOOK SHOP. 30,000 books and prints. Ralph A. Casperson Books. 
1303 Niles.Buchanan Road, Niles. Hours Wed. Sat. Sun. 9 to 7 or chance. 
Typing $.35 per page. Call Dan 272­5549. 
Accurate, fast typing. Call Mrs. Donoho. 232·0746. 
Walshltes: Now is your lucky chance to win a free date with a mystery man of your dreams! Act last! 
Pregnant and didn't mean to be? Call Birthright. 288-7640. 

Budepest night. 1989 Prairie Ave. Only Hungarian restaurant in Michiana area. Open 5:00·10:00· 
Tues. thru Sat. Serving American dinners but specialize in Hungarian entrees. Serving beer and imported wines. For reser. vations call 234·2332. 
WANTED 
Ride wanted to Missouri area (Sedalia) for Thanksgiving break. Call George 3279. 
Need ride to Lincoln or Omaha on Friday, Nov. 14. Call Bill 1629. 
Need 1 Pitt ticket, 272-3294. 
Need 4 Pitt tickets, Call Mark at 272-5133. 
Need 2 Pitt tlx. Call Mark 288.5261. 
Need ride to Minnesota weekend of Nov. 14. Call Ann 5166. 
Please! Really need up to 6 Pitt tickets. Call Mark 3462. 
Call 291.1887 about driving new Granada to Manchester, Missouri around Dec. 20. Couple need driver, all expenses, references. 
FOR RENT 
One bedroom apartment In modern complex to sublet. Call 283·7446 or 233·6561. 
Rent my upstairs. $50 per month. 233·1329. Keep trying. 
FOR SALE 
Super·Sealy double bed for sale. Mattress, box spring, frame-S50. Good shape. Call 272-6831. 
Sansui 4000 stereo receiver, 45 watts per channel' Perfect con. dillon. $160. 234-4824, evenings. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: dog after Halloween party at 
N.D. Ave. and Wayne. All black with white spot on chest, answers to Simone. Reward. 288·2825. 
Lost: Gold sculptured wedding band. Reward Call 233-3876. 

Found: One lAdy's watch on first floor corridor of Dillon Hall Navy Weekend. Call 3613. 
PERSONALS 

"Get me to the church on time" contest. Wiz (Vozl and the Wandering SMC. Call OMO at 3376 to guess the date. 
Happy 21st to Pat Dolan. Nancy wants to know if Carrots are good for Rabbits. 
To the L. T. Texan, welcome home R& C available upon request. Weirdo. 
Lady Fame, le poisson noir est mort. 
Happy B·day Del Grenqulst, from the other 2 Musketeers. Faye <Trixie Star) and Kathy (Erica). 
Janca, don't worry, we watered your plants. We miss you. M, T, M, P, and B. 
To the Ace: keep on talklng.•your wind will never run out. 
When will 313 Zahm be complete again? We miss you Dan·the.Man. Hurry back II Billy Jo, Betty Jo, 
and Bobby Jo.... 

.. 
... 
.. 
.. 
-~~-~ ~--~~-~-------~-~----­
8 the observer Monday, November 10, 1975 


Offense good too as Irish top Tech 
drove through a gaping hole on a
by Ernie Torriero 

trap-play and the freshman sprinter zig-zagged his way 73"You can't," explained John 
McKay, the departing Southern yards into the end zone for a commanding 17-0 Irish margin.
California coach, "beat Notre The jaunt was the longest of theDame soley with a ground attack. 

year for the Irish, breaking the old­You must pass if you are to beat season high mark of 54 yards bythe Irish." Two weeks later Heavens.
Georgia Tech tested that philosophy. To say the least, Notre "All I did was hit the guy," Dame held up under the test. commented AI Wujciak of the 
The report card shows the 

block which sprung Heavens. "I Yellow Jackets entered Saturday's was on the ground and I didn't spot conte::.t averaging 376.4 yards a Heavens downfield at all." 
game on the ground. But four Heavens was hearing footsteps quarters and 143 grueling yards a~d they weren't friendly ones later. the Ramblin' Wreck e1ther. "I looked over my 
machine had depreciated con­shoulder," said Heavens as he siderably. as the Irish completely recreated the scene, "and there shut:off the Georgia Tech attack, 
was this white jersey getting a commg away with a 24-3 triumph. little bit too close to me. So I "They are fantastic," said Tech. 
thought I'd better act fast." coach Pepper Rodgers as he shook "Fast" could hardly be a better 
his head in disbelief. "I knew term for the way Heavens reacted Notre Dame was good. But I didn't when he spotted Steve Crawford 
think they were that great. They angling in behind him. The 6-0 200 have more speed and size than pound freshman sensation, who anyone we have faced. The Irish was to g~in 148 yards on the day, 
are by far the best defensive team headed dtagonally toward the flag we've seen." 
and quickly Crawford was left in The defense was impressive as 
the dust.

Steve Niehaus and R~ss B.rowner charge in to try to block a Tech punt. The Irish defense didn't block 
"If I had stayed straight or cutNotre Dame held the Yellow 
an~ punts, but they d1d shfle the Yellow Jacket wishbone as Notre Dame downed Georgia Tech 24-3 
right. I think he would have cut meJackets to 143 yards on the ground 
Danny Myers handoff, shrugged a the Irish down to the Tech 16 and took off." 
d?wn." Heavens continued. "I justand zero yards through the air. 
The highly-touted Tech wishbone defender at the line and was finally ~itting on two quick look-ins t~ Brown did indeed "take off" and d1d what I thought was right. Ithauled d?wn 38 yards later by t1ght end Ken MacAfee, one for 12 with linebacker Pete Johnson in 
was just a straight dive-play. Butoffense could only muster seven 
saf~ty M1ke Banks: The romp, an? the other for 13 yards, while hot pursuit, the punter-turned­
tt was also the longest run of myfirst downs <two by penalties) and 
which came on the f1rst play of the usmg halfback AI Hunter and speedster sailed out of bounds 
career. The lanes just seemed tothe Yellow Jackets were to venture 
game, was to represent more than fullbac~ Jerome Heavens for giving Tech new vibrance and ~ 
be a little wider today."
into Notre Dame territory only 

one-quarter of Tech's total output. short gams. first down on their own 45 
If the lanes were wider for Notrefour times all day. 
"I. broke a tackle at the line," On a third and five situation on The Irish defense stiffened and it Da_me. thinning out
they wereMeanwhile Notre Dame's of­
Monarty_ was to reflect later. "I the Tech 16, Slager ambled to his is here early in the second
fense was at qUickly for Georgia Tech. For
running peak 

saw daylight ~nd ~ut to ~he outside. right, broke one Tech tackle and quarter.' that Notre Dame put 
Tech was to net a meager 33 yardsproduction. The Irish rolled up 385 
I thought I m1~ht ve ga~ned more. fluttered the ball to Heavens who together one of its most impressive 
offensively in the third quarter astotal offensive yards, 311 of which 
B~~ the pursUit c~?sed m fast." , stutter-stepped down the sidelines drives of the season. 
came on the ground, while racking they ran an anemic total of 12
On that play, No~re Da,r;te s f?r a perfect execution of the op-With Hunter sweeping to his 
plays.
up 21 first downs. More im­

Ro~s. Browner explame~, Fry lion play and a 7-0 Notre Dame right, Heavens hulling up the 
, Early in the fourth quarter, theportantly, Notre Dame was able to 
<Wllhe, the other defens1ve end) lead. middle and Slager connecting on a 
i ellow Jackets were to capitalizeplay a ball-eontrol game theyas penetrat~d too deep. Weston (Jeff, :'Th~t play," emphasized key third down pass to split-end on a Notre Dame mistage which
held the football for over 35 a defens1ve tackle) was double-Dev1_ne, was _an audible called at Dan Kelleher for 14 yards, the Irish resulted in Tech's only score of the minutes of play. t~amed and they beat Fry at the the lme of scnmmage. It was one methodically ate up the clock game. Notre Dame's Tim Simon
"We wanted to keep the ball 

lme. But from }hen on Willie o~ the many sit~ations where we Though the drive finally ran out ~f ambled back to field a punt on theaway from Georgia Tech," Notre 
reacted ~eal wei~. . d!d ~n excellen~ JOb ~f calling and gas at the 12 yard line, Dave Reeve 
Tech 30 yard line. Simon signaledDame coach Dan Devine em­
L~ter 1_n the f1rst perwd, T?m p1ckmg up aud1ble_s. . came in to boot a 29 yard field goal 
for a fair catch, but the ball slipped phasized. "Controlling the ball on 
Lop1ensk1 was called for assaultmg After a Georg1a Tech dnve to put the Irish up top 10-o All 
from his grasp and was recoveredoffense is one of the things a team 
the Tech punter and th~ Yel!ow stalled, Harper Brown went back totaled the march con~ume. 6:14 
by Tech's Gil Lyle.
must do to stop an oppositions's 

Jackets were rewarded w1th a f1rst to punt the ball away from his own and covered 61 yards. More im­a pass
Following interferencewishbone. A wishbone team hates 
down on the ND 47. But prosperity 29: '.'1 f~~bled the .s~ap," Brown portantly, it kept the ball away call on NO's Tom Mashmeier, ato see the other team control the 
proved too muc~ for the Yellow s.a1d m vlVldly descnbmg the play, from an explosive Georgia Tech 
thr~e yard gain by Adrian Ruckerball " 
Jackets as runnmg back Tommy · and when I recovered · I offense. 
and two sacks of quarterbackThe Yellow Jackets looked like 
Crowley slipped . and sum-saw the ends pinching in toward "The wishbone is not a catch-up 
Rudy Allen, E. 0. Whealler booted they were going to dictate the 
mersaulte~ the ball mto the hands me. I'd thought earlier in the offense," explained Devine whose
tempo of the game from the start. a 41 yard field goal, cutting the
of a surpnsed B~owner. g.am_e if a situation like this arose, team was up 10-zip at th~ half. 
Notre Dame advantage to 17-3 withHunning back Pat Moriarty took a 
Quarterback R1ck Slager drove I d hke to run. So I saw daylight "They rely on execution and not 
8:26 remaining in thp contest.
making mistakes. When they tumbled early and we recovered, it Devin~ pulled his starting of­was a blow to them and a great fense w1th 3:43 left in the game. our morale." St>nior Frank Allocco directed a
Hockey team sweeps CC 
Notre. Dame put the Hamblin' seven play drive covering 30 yards, Wrecks on a coilision course with as Dan Knott took an Allocco pitch­out three yards into the end zone
again to capitalize on a Colorado Walsh chipped in one each. defeat. as the Irish virtually put 
by Chip Scanlon was to Going into the weekend series the game away on the second play for the final Irish tally, with only
penalties. this time it h~ 
of the third quarter. Heavens 0:28 remaining.
Clark Hamilton and Brian Walsh Lefty Smith knew he had to get for the Irish. From there on in it more production out of his topIn hockey putting the puck in the 
was to be all Notre Dame. scoring line from last year <Walshnet is what it's all about, and this Managing only four penalties in Hamilto~. and Pirus) if thing~weekend the ND icers did just the last two periods, the Irish gave were gomg to turn around r1r histhat. 16 times. Turning a winless 
a Lefty Lenny Moher a breather after squad. Another problem area was
record into .500 ·season 

Smith's skaters swept two from being called upon to turn away the power play production where 21 shots in the first period. Notre Dame hadn't scorer in 12
Colorado College, 9-7, and 7-5. 

Colorado managed only 18 shots attempts. But this weekend whenPlaying away from home is after the initial period and while the smoke cleared at the Worldtough; the old hockey adage goes Moher was relaxing in the nets the Arena in Colorado the w,,Jsh linetie on the road and win at home. 
Irish offense went on to score six had scored nine times and theBut the mark of a good team is one goals on 21 shots, one of which was power play accounted foe· five ofthat can win at home and away. If the first short-handed goal of the the sixteen goals scored.
taking a pair from a team that was year scored by Terry Fairholm As usual the sophomore net­ranked eighth in the country before 

while Pat Novitzki, the top ND minding tandem responded to thethey had even stepped on the ice is penalty killer, was serving time for challenge with Moher racking upany indication of what's to come 
interference. ,36 saves to Peterson's 34. Althoughfor the Irish. this season will be one Saturday night's game did Moher sa his goals-against
of the most enjoyable in years for not start off as well as Friday's game average ju1•1P this weekend while
NO. 

did for the Irish. In the first period John Peterson's was to remainFriday night the Irish knew they Colorado jumped out to a two goal about the same, the pair will becouldn't wait around for lead, on a result of one of the four looking to take advantage of home Colorado's mistakes. Making their NO penalties. Shots on net were ice next weekend as Michigan
own breaks the Irish struck 

practically equal as ND's John invades the ACC.
quickly on two goals by Alex Pirus Peterson stopped nine to Michigan wound up sixth lastand Don Fairholm early in the first Colorado's Eddie year in the WCHA, losing only five period. Pirus' goal, his first of the 

Mio's eight saves. players to graduation and theseason, was a power play goal. 
The second period proved more series looks to be a great homeThis was the first power play goal 
fruitful' for ND as they scored twice opener for the Irish. Both gamesof the season in 12 attempts, a to Colorado:s single tally. Jack will begin at 7:30PM.
situation that was to be remedied 

Brownschidle Jed off the scoring at
before the weekend was over. 

o: 47 and then Paul Clarke scored Women's b-ball But Colorado, showing why they 
the power play seven minutes
were ranked so high in preseason on and seconds later.
polls, came back with three goals 31 Peterson tryouts tonight 
turned away eight of nine scoring
to head for the locker room with a 
attempts.

one goal lead. Notre Dame was Anyone interested in trying out
Despite three penalties to
able to :escape, being scored upon for the women's basketball club
Colorado's two, Notre Dame
while they were short-handed, but should attend a series of workouts 
outshot the Tigers 16 to seven and
one of the Tigers goals came just 20 beginning Monday at 6:30 p.m. i~
outscored themm five to two to end 
seconds after Paul Clarke's in­the main arena of the ACC. For 
up on top, 7-5. Alex Pirus scored
terference penalty had expired. further information, call Coach In the sP.f'ond oeriod ND was twice while Johnson. Hamilton and Jeanne Earley at 7533. 




