
Irish play home 
See page 16 


un1vf'r~1ty of nolrf' dome \I mary's college Vol. X, No. 18 Friday, September 26, 1975 

VanTassel takes north quad 
Lynch, Salveson win SLC seats 
by Mary Pat Tarpey working the box left the balloting turnout, "I would like to thank Staff Heporter area topush for OC votes, leaving everyone who showed their con­Ed Van Tassel, of the North the box unguarded." Because oft­cern for the coming year by voting. 
Quad; John Salveson of the South he invalid votes, the election was Quad and John Lynch of Off­rescheduled. 
I didn't think the turn out was Campus are the newly elected Van Tassel defeated Jim 
phenomenal but it wasn't bad. representatives to the Student Life Spurling for the North Quad Next year I would like to see the 
SLC elections a little more
Council tSLCl position with 573 or 52 per cent of 
publicized. Some students didn't
They will join Ed Byrne, student the votes cast. Spurling received know about the voting."
body president and Mike Welsh, 531 votes or 48 per cent. This 

·~·l
BACK HOME AGAIN, (NATURALLY). The Irish bring it all back home
HPC member to complete the st­reverses Tuesday's results when 
Van Tassel commented on his fot rhe Northwestern game tomorrow. --to anxiously waiting fans. See
udent members of the SLC. Spurling had 49 per cent of the vote 
upcoming job with the SLC. "I story, photo layout on page 4. (Photo by Chris Smith)
compared to Van Tassel's 27 per
The run-off election yesterday believe the budget will be the first 
cent.
for on-tampus candidates resulted thing we deal with. I'd like to see a
Van Tassel carried Grace,
when none of the candidates lot of student input on making the During first semester 
Keenan and Stanford with his
received a majority of the votes budget. As of right now I'm not
strongest support in Keenan, 158-52
Tuesday. sure how much input or how it will 
and Grace, 168-75. Spurling did 
be handled, but anyone with any
The off-campus electon m-extremely well in Zahm where he 

Calendar planned

comments can contact me. I think
validated Tuesday, was also held won 148 to 23. A total of 1,104 st­
we can get a lot done this year."
yesterday. According to Pete udents voted on North Quad, a Gottsacker. SLC election chair­slight increase over the 1036 who by Jim Commyn work through the Hall Presidents'
John Salveson. the newly elected 

man. "Wt· had a ballot box at voted on Tuesday. Stan Bt•pm·tt·r Council. Views would start rising
South Quad n•pn•st>ntativP

Campus View and the volunteer Van Tassel commented on voter from the bottom level, the sections 
gathered 610 votes for 54 per cent Academic Commissioner Mike withinthe halls. They would filtercompared to 46 percent or 524 votes Gnssman yesterday released a up to the hall presidents, and as afor his opponPnl. Mike Richter. four pol!ll program to speed up result. we would have 20 'surveys'Tuesdays l'lt>clion had Salvson discussion and action on next instead of 2,000 and stilllw vP totalahead :m per cent to 33 per cent. year's academic calendar. 
coverage of the student body."
"The calendar has never been Gassman's staff, larger than
Salveson did well in Pangborn 
brought up before during the first previous years, at the same time
where he won 152-48 and in Alumni 
semester," Gassman said. "The 
would poll off campus students and
where the tally was 106-21. With 
sooner we get the calendar out of the faculty. probably vias thehis lead in Morrissey and Walsh th­tlw way. we can to other
move on department level he thought.
is gave him the victory. A total of issues." Normally the academic Four main questions will be1134 students voted on South Quad, calendar for tlw coming year is discussed: starting the yeara drop of 191 votes cast over the discussed during the last half of the before or after Labor Day; therirst election. 
second semester. 
desire for a mid-semester break Salveson felt that the. turnout Gassman stressed that any 
and its length; the length of the Thanksgiving holiday and thecould. have been better but was proposed calendar would not solt>y question of how soon classes wouldsurpnsed that llw amount ol student be his own or one planned only by end before Christmas.
voting lhl' second time was similar Student G~vernment. but one that "Trade-offs between the various
to Tuesday's turnout. both faculty an students would be "It wasn't too great of a turnout. able to live \\'Itn. 
elements will have to be studeid I expected a smaller number thoroughly," Gassman said, 
Point one of this plan has already ''because Labor Day is late next
because in a way everything built 

Lynch Van Tassel Salveson been initiated. Letters have year, Sept. 6." tConlimwd on pag<' 6) already been sent out to various 
Once a consensus is reacheduniversities round the country to among the 20 surveys, sampleget an idea of the number of days calendars will be drawn up with t·each school has per semester, and he best three going to Studentwhen their breaks occur. "The Government. The final draft will

Senior-Alu111ni Club enjoys 
ideal calendar," Gassman said, 
go to the Academic Council for"would have Notre Dame vacat­approval. Gassman said that theions coincide with those of other 
commission will have all its
schools, allowing friends to get

heavy attendance by seniors 
homework done before it makes itstogether.'' 
presentation. "We're going in with bv Mark M. Murphy ''Those arid other additions have available, although Johnson did The second part of the program the calendar an leaving it for a yes · Starr Ht-porter helped to increase the popularity of say the operation is entirely self­involves polling the student body or no vote." he said. 

the place for seniors," Assistant sufficient. and the faculty to their
Patronized infrequently lJy as Gassman felt that the calendar
Manager Maureen Creighton said. preferences concerning the
seniors in !he past, the Senior­Priviously the profits of the would not be the maintopic for the
She also noted that a live band calendar.
Alumni Club has so far enjoyed a Senior Club went to the building's Academic Commission this year.
might be hired once a month and
full house each night. "The reason the calendar has
that folk singers may return to the renovation. Because no more "I hate to use the word survey," 
"Business is definitely improvements are planned, the Gassman said, "this year the
upstairs lounge once a week. 
tConlillll<'d on page 12)

booming," reports Steve lnfalt, managers forsee a sizeable profit Academic Commission hopes to assistant manager of the club. in this year's operation. "Profits
The Senior-Alumni Club is
"Friday and Saturday nights, are justified by our low pricPs."
located south of the football
usually the worst times for Johnson explained, "and the
stadium and is under the direction 
On the inside

business, have been packed with money we make will be used to
of the Student Affairs Office. Fr.
people so far this year. We are create our own scholarship fund,
Terrence Lalley oversees club 
The drift toward Off-Campus living has been

obviously very glad to see that." the 1Mails of which will be an­
operations with the help of Prof~
General Manager Gil Johnson nounced later this year." decreasing. . . pg. 3 
Ken Milani. The club is open ex­cites the comfortable "club" at­
clusively to 21 year-old Notremosphere. the low prices and the Lally expressed his feelings The up-coming paranoia? The terrifying amoeba
Dame and St. Mary's seniors andcloseness of the senior class as about the club, saying that he threatens shark-fear status ...pg. 5
to the alumni of the Universities. 
reasons for the club's success. frequents the senior watering hole .
Open Wennesday through
"We're getting a reputation as a "about once a week",enjoys "the
Saturday, it employs 17 seniors in Students are failing to respond to fire alarms . . . pg.6
place where people can have a atmosphere and the company
jobs ranging from bartenders to
good time," Johnson said. "Here immensely." Though the recent
bouncers.
the class seems to come alive when vandalism concerns him, Lally 'Sleeper' comes to television ...page 9 together but without the usual anticipates a good year for the 
Johnson reported that over 1,000 
Senior Club and its members. scene." membership cards have been "The managers and employees are Griffin ...page 9 
hassles of the South Bend bar purchased this year, a figure 

industrious and work as a team," The management purchased a representing about fifty percent of 
he said, "with the rest of the class new stereo system this summer the combined ND-SMC seniors. they hope the Senior Club will be and rearranged the rooms to Because the club has operated only an enjoyable place to socialize.'' 



%Observer 
create a dance floor downstairs. two weeks, no financial figures are he concluded. 

J 


! f 
r 
~ 
t 
I t 

warld briefs 
INDIANAPOLIS <AP> -A cafeteria fight between a black st­udent and a white student erupted into a distubance that resulted in the arrest of ll youths at Indianapolis' Arsenal Technical High School Thursday, police said. 
Fivestudents were arrested as they were preparing to attack a group of black youths, Sgt. Tim Nelms of the school's security police said. One of those arrested was charged with carrying a eoncealed weapon, a bicycle chain, police said. 
MICHIGAN CITY, Ind. <APJ -A small quantty of barbituates 
and two broom-handle clubs were found in the Indiana State Prison 
hospital where two knife-toting inmates held eight hostages while 
they got high on drugs, authorities said Thursday. . 
Steve Lasley of the Indiana Correction Dpartment sa1d the 
shakedown, requested by a guard two days before Wednesday's fi­
rve hour seige, turned up very little. 
ANNAPOLIS <AP) -Gov. Marvin Mandel said today he has 
been notified that he is under investigation by a federal grand jury 
probing political corruption in Maryland. 
The governor said at his weekly news conference that ~he formal 
notification came in a ltter from the U.S. attorney to h1s lawyer, 
Arnold Weiner. 
WASHINGTON (APJ-Gov. Milton J. Shapp formally launched 
his bid for the Democratic presidential nomination today with a 
warning that unstable governmnt will result unless government 
fiscal pllicies are dratically changed. 


an c:ampus taday 
friday, sept. 26, 1975 
3·6 pm -happy hour "nd-smc jr. class present kubiak's happy hour" kubiaks 
5:15 pm -mass and dinner, bulla shed 7 pm -pep rally, stepan center 10-12 pm ·free concert "smc coffeehouse features 'nite flight'" smc 
dining hall basement 
saturday, sept. 27, 1975 
10 am -soccer "nd vs. manchester college" stepan field 
10:50 am-multi media show "notre dame in review" sponsored by alumni association, washington hall 
1:30 pm -football "notre dame vs. northwestern" stadium, TV coverage on channel 16 
7 pm film "ashirwad" sponsored by india association, library auditorium 
!'.unday, sept. 28, 1975 
8:15 pm -concert "graduate student organ recital" sponsored by music department, sacred heart church 
Professor Samuel Shapiro of the Notre Dame History Department will challenge any opponent in a fund-raising chess tournament, 1 
p.m. Saturday at the south end of Riverbend Plaza in South Bend. 
Shapiro intends to play all the challengers simultaneously. The one-dollar entrance fee will help fund a stone shess table topped by a marble chess board, to be placed in Riverbend Plaza. Entrants must also provide their own chess 
set. 
Shapiro is the chess champion of South Bend. Any entrant who wins or draws against Shapiro will receive a chess trophy. 
The Observer oS publiShed Monday through F"day and weekly du,ng the !)ummer !.esseon. except durmg exams and vacat1on periods The Observer •S publ•shed by the students of the Univ of Notre 
Dame and 51 Mary's College SubSc,pt,ons may be purchased tor 10 dollars per semester I II dollars per year I from The Ob server. Box Q. Notre Dame. In d•ana. 46SS6 Second Class postage pa1d. Notre Dame. IN 46SS6 
'. \ ·, 
operation of the division. 
~THE\* {t\19\151_J!AOINt;~ 
TN£ OUTWlARAILE. 

Whtrtrtr you walk,
In camp, or on eomP"•· 
Wf hAve o. hiking ioo+ 
'for yoyr feet. 
IOOCENTER ~shewka, IN 465'1jf. Phone: 2.1q/2Sq-S213 


To meet today 
St. Mary's adds five to regent~ 
Sister M. Catherine Francis Ford, CSC, chairman of the Saint Mary's College Board of Regents, has announced that five new 
members have accepted her vitation to join the Board  in­of  
Chicago artist  
opens exhibit  

Everett McNear, Chicago artist, and his wife Ann will be guests at an evening reception beginning at 
7:30 Saturday (Sept. 27) in ad­vance of a Sunday opening of his art exhibition in Notre Dame's Art Gallery. The public is invite and refreshments will be served. 
Painter, designer and collector, McNear will exhibit art works created otr collected over a career of 40 years. These include pain­tings, etchings, experiments in Cubism, and books that he ahs written or designed. A special room in the Notre Dame Gallery will contain items from his collection which range from primitive weaponry to the most modern Picasso etchings. 
Both McNear and his wife are members of the advisory council to Notre Dame's Art Gallery, a group meeting on the campus this weekend. Available to gaJipry visitors will be a new catalog on the current exhibit· which was designed and published by the sritst. 
McNear has also designed several publications for the Art Institute of Chicago and the Chicago Arts Club. Samples of his layouts for major art shows will be a part of th Notre Dame exhibit. 
Six elected to SMC Assembly 
By Liz Merrell Staff Reporter 

Results of the saint Mary's Student Assembly elections, held Wednesday Sept. 24, were an­nounced yesterday by Kathy 
Carrigan, election chairman.


Alumni Associationmeets 

were Maureen Breen, Karen Nagel and Mary Lanois, juniors from McCandless, and sue Jackson,

lor weekend conference 

Marge Montgomery and Louise Purcell, Regina Hall sophmores.
Directors of Notre Dame's Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, Each candidate ran uncontested.
Alumni Association, representing C.S.C., Notre Dame president, will Carrigan said she was disap­55,000 former students and 175 area speak at a 7 p.m. dinner Thursday 

clubs around the world, are at­in the Morris Inn Retiring board pionted with the voter turnvut for tending a fall meeting on the members and their wives will be the election. Only a fraction of the campus this weekend <Sept.24-27). 
honored and the Notre Dame Glee eligible voters participated in the Meetings in the Center for Con­Club will provide entertainment. election. tinuing Education are under the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., 46 m percent> of McCandless' 
direction of John A. O'Brien, executive vice president, will 262 eligible voters took part in the

Birmingham, Ala.. 1975-76 speak at a luncheon Thursday and election, while 35 (8.3 percent> of 
president of the board. Rev. James T. Butrtchaell, C.S.C., Regina's 307 studnets voted. Provost. will be the speaker at The first assembly meeting will Friday's luncheon. Various beocuinthestudentgovernment 
H• t f Association activities and room of Regina Hall.
lS ory pro essor programs will be discussed by Nominations for the freshman 

Board committees. election, which will be acceptedin cheSS tOUfDey Also meeting on the Notre Dame at thestudent government room, 
Regents. She also announced the reappointment of two members at the board's meeting at the College on Septemger 26-27. 
Accepting membership on the Board of Regents are Kay Howard Boyle, Margaret Hall Cushwa, Sister M. Michael King, CSC, Andrew J. McKenna, Jr., and Joan McDermott. 
"We welcome the five new Regents who bring to the board a fine diversity of background and experience," said Sister Catherine Francis. "They share an ap­preciation of the values which Saint Mary's College has fostered for 130 years and a vital interest in working together for the cont­tinued progress of the College." 
Kay Howard Boyle, president of the Saint Mary's College Alumnae Association, joins the board in an l'x orficio capacity. The Corporate members of the Board of Regents decided to invitee the Alumnae Association president to join the board after a recommendation was made by the Alumnae Association at the board's meeting last spring .. 
Mrs. Boyle, a 1957 graduate of the College, will serve on the board until her term as Alumnae Association president expires in Spring 1976. 
Margaret Hall Cushwa, a 
resident of Youngstown, Ohio, is a 
1930 graduate of the College. Long 
active in alumnae projects, she is a former president of the Alumnae 
Association.  She  will  serve a  
regular  th ree-year  te rm  on  the  
board.  

Sister M. Margaret Michael King CSC is the regional superior of the midwestern region of the Sisters of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. She will serve a three­year term on the board. 
Andrew J. McKenna, Jr., a resident of Long Beach, Indiana, is president of the Schwarz Paper Company in Chicago. He has agreed to serve a three-year term on the board 
Joan McDermott, a senior, is the new student representative on the board. She is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John W. McDermott of Lake Forest, Illinois. Her father is also a member of the Board of Regents and this will be the first time that a father and daughter have served on the board at the same time. Joan is Student Body President at Saint Mary's and will serve on the board for a one-year term. 
Reappointed for second three­year terms are Stanley Idzerda, editor-in-chief of the Lafayette Papers, Cornell University; and Eli J. Shaheen, president of the Suutton Tool Commpany, Sturgis, Michigan. 

Elected to fill the six vacant seats cmnati Diocese. If we do our 
will open Oct. 6.
campus this weekend are 

Catholic bishop cites teaching of religion 
-

CINCINNATI, Ohio <APJ -less funding is available, once The Most Rev. Joseph L. Ber­again called for a preservation nardin emphasized the impor­of the private school system. tance of Catholic education dur­
"Perhaps our best contribu­
ing remarks Thursday to the 
tion to the bicentennial celebra­opening session of the Ohio tion of our country will be toCatholic Education Association 
maintain a strong alternative
convention. 
education system, one which in­"No education is worth very sures freedom of choice for ourmuch unless it can go beyond parents and children, one whichthe purely pragmatic dimension will inculcate an understandingof life and probe the deeper 
and appreciation of that truequestions which have £asci­
freedom on which the well­nated and perplexed the human being of both our church and
f~mi!~ f~om the very beg~n­
society is based," the arch­n~ng, . sa1_d the h;,ad of the em-bishop said. 

job well as Catholic educ~tors, About 13,000 educators are at­then, w~ must not ~e afr~1d to tending the three-day confer­e_mp?,as1ze the fa1th dlmen-ence at the Cincinnati Con­vention Center. The represent
SIOn: . . Hlshop Bernai;dm, who has m 811 elementary and 159 high the past ~arned of dangers to schools in Ohio, Indiana and _ the Cathohc school system un-Kentucky. 
Almost .Everything You've Always Wanted To Know 
A GAY GUIDE TO 
NOTRE DAME-SOUTH BEND 
PREPARED BY the Gay Students of Notre Dame 
Available at Pandora's or wnte
S p 0 B 206 N D
G ND, . . ox , otre arne $1.00 mail orders confidential 
~o....;..;;..;,.;;..,;;...._.....;;.;;.;.;.;;.;;..~;....---.;;..;,,;,;.;.;;,_..;.;.______.,... 
members of the advisory councils,.....-----~------....,-------------..,.------------...... of the Law School, Memorial A th SPECIAL RATE 
Anna Cora Mowatt's

Library and Art Gallery. Their r ur Kopit's periodic meetings with faculty and INDIANS All FOUR PLAYS 

FASHION

University officials are designed to Student _ Facultyprovide an exchange of in­
formatl.on benefl"cial to the future Oct. 10, 11, 16, 17, 18 at 8:00P.M. ND-5MC Staff 
D p
ec.5,6,11,12,13at8:00 .M.

S C t
tepan en er $5.50 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
~-------------------4---------------------+--~~~~~~------1 
STUDENT SEASON SUBSCRIPTION SWEEPSTAKES 
All NO and SMC students purchasing season sub­scriptions will be eligible for a drawing to be held 

.Oct._ 10, 1975 before openmg of first show. 

NO 
SMC 


THEATRE 
1975-1976 Our 10th Joint Season 
lnoicate 1st Fri., 1st Sat.,
Arthur Miller's 
Thurs., 2d Sat. 2d Fri. date choice and mail check for

THE CRUCIBLE 
amount due with stamped­
addressed envelope for 
return of tickets to: N D­
Feb. 27, 28, Mar. 4, 5, 6 at 8:00 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
SMC Theater, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6 

SWEEPSTAKES PRIZES 
l. 2 tickets to ND-Georgia Tech 
game  
2. Dinner restaurant limit)  of  for your  two  ch at oice  the ($25  

3. $10 gift certificate at local store of your choice. 
BUY YOUR SEASON TICKET TODAY!!! 
Tebelak and Schwartz's 


GODSPELL 
April 23, 24,29,30, May 1 at 8 PM Stepan Center 




-------------------------------~------------------~-----------------------------­
Friday, September 26, 1975 
.,,,, '' cdr•'CMJ7 .,,,,... the observer. 3 
1.\ J • ·I, 

On-campus undergrads increase 
by Pat Cole 

law students off campus," Fr. Thomas J. crime factor.
security Is located? The fear was the girls 
Staff Reporter 

Tallarida said. The director of Off-Campus "As an off-campus resident, I noticed that
would get mugged, robbed or raped." More undergraduate students live on 
Housing added, "Yet our office does not deal here are problems with landlords. Also I campus this year according to statistics with grHrluate students.. " The number of undergraduate women off­realized that as an off-campus resident I from the Off-Campus Housing Office. campus has increased. Last year, 72 women must wash dishes, wash clothes and keep up 
In the 1974-75 academic year, ap­Of the 1,250 students who live off campus, were off-campus. This year 112 women the house. These activities distract from the 
161 are residents of South Bend. Thus, there reside off-campus.
proximately 22 percent of the student body normal study time one would have being on 
are 1.089 who actually live off-campus.
lived off-campus. Currently, only 19 percent campus." of the undergraduates live off-campus. Stnllt•nt l.oth•r:-Stevenson stated the Off-Campus Com­
The Campus View complex attracted the mission will try to focus on landlord andThe senior class leads all classes with a largest number of students to apartment life Last year, there was a student lottery for student abuse problems.
total of 713 students off-campus. The junior with 299 undergraduates out of 421. St. 
selecting off-campus residents. "We do not The increase in students on campus hasclass has 287 students off-l'ampus , followed Joseph's Hall, the Moreau Seminary and the abide by any quotas or ratios to determine affected other college. "At Indianaby the sophomore class witH 115. Eighty­University Village are considered to be off­the number of students to remain on University in Bloomington," said Tallarida, five fifth-year students decided to reside off­campus. 
campus," Tallarida added. He states that "there is an urge to move off-campuscampus and only 50 freshmen chose this 
option. Tallarida stated there are 389 students by not forcing some students to live off­because of crowding. Yet I hope Notre "Actually there are 2,871 graduate and living in these complexes. There are ten campus, they may have to live in an un­
Dame remains to be a residential univer­
desirable are.

students at the Moreau Seminary and ten " 
Some undergraduates who reside onstudents 'at St. Joseph's Hall. Some of the 
students at St. Josheph's, however, are 
campus cited their reasons for living on waiting to obtain housing on campus. 
campus. Chip Turner, a resident assistant Why have fewer students moved off­in Fisher Hall, said, "It is less of a hassle being on campus. One doesn'thaveto drive 
campus thst year? 

to school. the meals are prepared, and being 
l·:,pt•nsin• off-t·ampus off-campus only exposes you to your roommates. Even if I didn't have a resident
"The generalization is it's costlier to assistant job, I would still want to live on move off-campus," Tallarida said. "For 
campus."

example, the cost at Campus View is higher Robert Waddick, a junior from Waltham,than on campus. I estimate one can live at Massachusettes, expressed his feelings.
Campus View on less than $150 per month. 
"I'll say the opportunities for social. in­
Campus View would are But
A year at be about better off-campus. I
teraction
$1500." 

wouldn't want to sacrifice the convenience -:;:;ji~~ll
"There are exceptions. As an l'Xample, of living on campus. You are always close houses may cost students from $75 to $85 per to everything." month. Since the utilities cost less, the total "If I really wanted to live off-campus and cost would generally be cheaper than commute, I could have gone to college in Campus View," Tallarida added. Boston." 
Tallarida does not believe vandalism is an Doug Stevenson, off-campus com-~· ; important factor in having more students on missioner at Notre Daem, said, "The crime··~ campus. "Vandalism," he states, "could rate may affect where a student wants to . ~ • not be the cause. If so, why have the live. But it doesn't really scare them. It's.· ,? number of girls off-campus in housing in-the comfort of living on campus that at-" 
AT EASE--OFF CAMPUS. · creased greater than in complexes where tracts students to live on compus, not the AH THE PLEASURES OF OFF-CAMPUS (Photo by Mike Budd) 
LIVING. 

No action taken (PhotobyChrlsSmlth) 
Faculty salary increases going nowhere 
Professors <AAUP> are engaged
by Phil Cackley 
m makmg studies of the matter,
Staff Reporttr 
nothing has come to light.

The issue of, faculty' salary in­Administration not
The has creases is now in limbo. 

taken any action regarding theAlthough both the Faculty Af­matter.

fairs Committee of the Faculty The issue is complicated,Senate and the Notre Dame stretching back to April of 1974. Atchapter of the American 
that time, the AAUP relea!;_e_d a_

Association of University report focusing on the loss of 
Notre Dame apartments offer student rent dea] 
by Eilt>rn O'Grady Starr Ht>portt>r 

The Notre Dame Apartments on 
N. Notre Dame Ave. are offering a new rent deal to students. 
This change in policy resulted because the Notre Dame Apart­
ments felt competition from the rising number of apartment complexes in the area. 
"Campus View has definitely hurt us," William Farmer, lan­dlord of the Notre Dame apart­ments, said in an interview yesterday. 
Although Campus View charges the same rent, it has taken away potential customers from the Notre Dame apartments, Farmer said. 
"The promise of the pool and tennis cour~. which they haven't built yet, has lured students away," Farmer said. "Actually, our apartments are more sound­proof, fireproof and have a better location." 
The complex is also hurt by the popularity of old homes. "Lots of students want old houses for more privacy, private bedrooms and less rent. Of course we have no way of competing with them. They are. lilking the risk though of 
burglary and bad neighborhoods, instead of secure apartment t'Omplexes," I<'armer said. 
The Notre Dame apartments are not hurt as much by Turtle Creek or the new townhouses in the area. "They attract mostly married students, who usually can never afford ours," he said. 
Farmer said he hopes the new 
j 
----~-~-~----~----~~ -~ 




Football weekends 
Excess of 60,000 fans create major impact 
on South Bend area 


by Don Reimer Staff Reporter 
This weekend nearly 60,000 fans will descend on the Notre Dame campus to at­tend the Notre Dame-Northwestern football game. This massive influx of people into the South Bend area will produce a tremendous economic and environmental impact. 
Jay J. Kane, of Notre Dame Information 
Services, estimates that these fans will 
spend roughly two million dollars during 
their stay in the area. Included in Kane's 
estimate are cities all the way from Niles to 
LaPorte. 

According to Kane, approximately 30,000 
of the fans in the stadium travel from a 
distance of at least 50 miles to attend the 
game. If the opponent is located 
geographically close to South Bend, such as 
Northwestern or Michigan State, as many 
as 150 to 200 buses will come to campus. 
Motels Filled 

There are 2200 hotel and motel rooms 
available in the city of South Bend. VirtualJy 
all of these are occupied on a football 
weekend, according to David McTigue, 
research director at the South Bend 
Chamber of Commerce. 

Besides the immediate South Bend-Niles 
area, Kane noted that motels in cities as far 
away as Benton Harbor, Michigan have 
been filled to capacity. 

Several nearby hotels contacted last week 
all reported they have been filled since last 
spring. 

"We have a fullhousefor all five football 
weekends," said a spokesman for the 
Holiday Inn on US 31. He added that his 
motel takes reservations on a first come­
first serve basis, beginning one year in 
advance. 

The Ramada Inn follows a different 
procedure in accepting reservations for 
football weekends. We take regulars first," 
stated the manager "<.nd then it goes on a 
first come-first serve h::~sis " 

People are required to write to the Inn 
one year in advance to secure their reser­
vations. The Ramada Inn has been filled for 
"at least one year" according to the 
manager. 

"It's fantastic for us," commented the 
reservations manager at the Royal Inn in 
South Bend, describing the football weekend 
business. "It gives us five full weekends for 
sure." 

The Royal lqn also accepts reservations 
on a firstcome-firstserve basis, except for 
local companies who often buy "blocks of 
rooms." 

A spokesman for Randall's Inn said, 
"Football weekends are great. The 
University really helps the area economy by 
drawing people on both football weekends 
and at conventions." 

Area restaurants also reflect the huge 
upswing of business brought by the large 
crowds. 

The manager of Kentucky Fried Chicken, 
located near campus, estimates "on a 
football Saturday 200 to 300 extra people"are 
served in his carry-out. 

He said that on a good Saturday he may 
cook an extra 430 to 450 chickens and sell 
nearly 150 pqunds of cole slaw. 
"They are always a big thing," is the way 
a spokesman for the Pancake House 
described the football weekends at his 
restaurant. "Our volume is usually 50 per 
cent higher than normal," he commented, 
"so we have to order twice as much food in 
advance." 

"The football weekends really make our business nice and witliout them the whole 
business would be a mediocre thing," he 
said. 

The business "picks up pretty well" at 
Nicola's according to the manager. She did 
not have any exact figures on the increase, 
but commented, "this time is the prime of 
the vear for us." 

Volume of business at the Boars Head on a Saturday night following a football game increases about 10 per cent according to a restaurant spokesman. "It's nice to have," he said, referring to the extra business, "but it's not that important to our overall revenue." · 
Campus Business 

The 14 food stands situated throughout the campus on a Saturday morning not only provide many vistors with a pregame lunch but also help to raise funds for many campus organizations. 
"For some organizations it is one of their primary ways of making money," com­mented Bro, John Benesh, director of student activities. "Some clubs are limited in methods of making money." 
Approximately 50 clubs and organizations apply to sponsor one of the 70 places for stands each year and most applicants receive two dates. The locations of the vending stations are shifted weekly to assure equal opportunity for all sponsors. 
The lines that trail out of the doors of the bookstore evidence the over 10,000 people who pass through the store on football Sat­urday mornings. 
Bro. Conan Moran, manager of the bookstore estimates that as many as 15,000 to 20,000 people might shop in the bookstore on a Saturday. 
"Because of the great interest in Notre Dame everyone wants something from here," Moran said, "and they especially want such items as sweatshirts." 
Moran prepares for what he calls "one mad rush" by adding about 20 more workers on Saturday mornings. "Eve~ybody has to work pretty hard," he commented, "because the volume is almost impossible to handle." 
The extra work is worth it, though, because the increased business greatly helps to make the bookstore a success. 
"I'd say they're pretty important," said Moran referring to the busy Saturdays. "That's probably what makes us a suc­cess." 
Increased Traffic 

About 20,000 to 25,000 cars come in the immediate campus area on a football Saturday mo·rning, according to Director of Secunty Arthur Pears. 
In order to accommodate the tremendous flow of traffic all roads surrounding the campus are converted to one-way heading towards the campus. 
Roads including Angela Blvd., Notre Dame Avenue, and Juniper Road are regulated by a combined force of Notre Dame Security , South Bend Police and St. Joseph County Sheriffs. 
"We all work together," stated Pears, adding that he meets with all the agencies involved in traffic control prior to the season in order to coordinate their efforts. 
The officer in charge of game traffic control for the South Bend Police pointed out the quickness with which people are able to leave the area after the game, and he at­tributed this to the open access provided by four main roads. 
"At Purdue last week it took nearly three hours for everyone to get out of the stadium area because there weren't enough access roads," said the police spokesman in praising the Notre Dame situation. 
"Making the roads one way here also helps very much," he added. 
Over 85 people from the various law en­forcement agencies, plus 25 volunteers from the local REACT unit help in traffic control for the games. 
For the business of South Bend and the surrounding areas, Notre Dame football weekends mean more than tl satur.day af" ternoon of action on the footbatl field ~ The crowds attracted by Notre Dame football provide a boost to the economy felt all year around. 


.....---~----~----~-------~--~---~~-~-­
Friday, September 26, 1975 
the observer 5 
l 

ove on over now, 'Mister Jaws' 


three genera: Acanthamoeba, Hart-Sta rf Reporter manella. and Naegleria. future would still not be too bright since no The amoeba preys on swimmers, ap­drug has been shown effective against the 
by Jorge Ferreiro be diagnosed before the victim died, his 
parently entering the victim's brain through 
With all the recent fanfare about sharks amoeba. The drug normally used against 
nd shark attacks, what may be the water his nasal passages. Once inside the brain it other amoeba, metronidazole, has recently 
most dangerous to man has multiplies rapidly and in a matter of days been brough under fire for being a suspected so much brain tissue is destroyed that the
med victim after victim with almost nc carcinogen. person dies. 
Thorson said that the amoeba can be 
According to Dr. Ralph E. Thorson, 
found in this area, stating, "You can find it, This bestial organism is known commonly 
professor of biology at Notre Dame, "Many 
there's no problem finding it". The former the deadly swimming pool amoeba. Not 
cases go undiagnosed. First of all no one 
department head indicated the possibility of can it be found in the most inocuous of 
has survived it. Second of all, it has only 
the amoeba's presence in the Notre Dameplaces, such as swimming pools and fresh­water lakes, but it is also worthy of not~ that 
"The water inhabitant most dangerous
no victim has ever survived its attack. The deadly swimming pool amoeba is a 
to man ... the deadly swimming
one-eelled organism that lives in water and is classified by biologists as belonging to 
pool amoeba ... considered for use in the assasination of Fidel Castro." 


been diagnosed at auwpsy." The world-renowned parasitologist  also  community saying, "These lakes wouit1 be ideal almost, I would think. Particulat·ly  An emergency room nurse at Memorial Hospital of South Bend expressed no ap­ 
expressed doubts that the average doctor  in  the summer because they are used in  parant knowledge of the existence of the  
could  detect  the  presence  of  the  killer  heat exhange for cooling purposes" for the  amoeba and its related disorder, saying, 'I  
amoeba in a patient due to the fact that it sh­ University  power  plant.  Evidently,  the  don't know what you're talking about." She  
ows symptoms identical to meningitis. The only way of demonstrating with certainty  amoeba thrives in warm temperatures, surviving the winter balled up in a cyst and  refused to comment further. Dr. Robert T­hompson. of the Notre Dame Infirmary, was  
that  an  individual has the infection is by  becoming active when the temperatures get  not  well-versed in  the  area  of  the  killer  
actually cutting into the brain tissue and  sufficiently high.  "I don't link I've ever seen  amoeba  either.  Consequently  one  could  
looking for the abcesses caused by the beast and then finding the amoeba microscopically. No other method has been shown capable of determining whether the patient is diseased with the amoeba. <As can be supposed, it is not common to slice into people's heads on impulse and hence for all practical purposes it is undetectable). If by some miracle the infection were to  " Naegleria out here. But it's an ideal situation for it," concluded Thorson. It is believed that only a sand filter system will stop the amoeba from entering a swimming pool. Dr. Thomas Fallon, director of the Rockne Memorial preferred not to speak about the Rockne pool's filter. Steven Kovach, pool engineer, was not able to be reached for comment  expect little or no assistance from either the Notre Dame Infirmary or the Memorial Hospital of South Bend if infected by the aquatic terror. The amoeba's awesomP pffeclcan be seen in light of the recent rumor that the fatal parasite was considered for use in assasination against Cuban premier Fidel Castro.  

benefits of the other resources the
its t•xpensc and continuance are professional librarian on duty justified. library has to offer . " during that tiem. A headcount will iND THIS SUNDAY SEPT. 28
-----------------,
be taken throughout the semester

The new policy is both a con-Gail Mandell, assistant to the venience for St. Mary's students to see if the policy should be I NO COVER 
I
continued. We must be assured

vice-president for Academic Af-and a new option Mandell hopes fairs, cited the reason for the new will be used. that the expense is worthwhile," I CHARGE WITH Ipolicy. "We had been thinking ::;he added. about the hour changes for a long Sr. Rita Claire, St. Mary's chief I THIS AD Itime, but a few things have hap· 
librarian, also believes the ex­St. Mary's student reaction to 
pened recently which caused us to periment is worthwhile. "We were the announcf'ment appears I MUST BE 18 OR OVER I give it more serious attention." 
asked to try these newhoursfor the favorable. Sophomore Liz Skelly
The administrator listed some new said, "Sometmes you'lljust have a I now appearing I 
weekends to see if the students 
considerations. "For one thing the 

would take advantage of the bad weekend where you're loaded I RIDGE ROAD I dorm parietals have been changed library as a study tool because it is with homework. Studying is 
for the weekends, which meant an a resource area and reference virtually impossible in a noisyincrease in activity and noise in the instrument." dorm. The only alternative we dorms. As a result girls wishingto had,, the Notre Dame library. 
study in the dorm might find it No,, v., :1a ve a choice, a rather 


j S~!(~tyS j
more difficult." She added, "we are perfectly 
co1 mient one at that." 
Features 'Irish' plaid L-~iiiiiiilili:a/ii.u.L..J 
More convenient for students 
SMC library changes hours 
Mandell added that the Resident willing to keep the library open by Mary Rukavina Assistants, on behalf of the those additional hours for the Starr Heporter students, requested longer library purposes stated. However she is study hours. Mandell believes this against library use only as a study The St. Mary's Library will open may be due to an increase in area because "there are plenty of 
academic pressures this year.
from 6:00 to 11:00 p.m. starting study areas already available on !his Friday and Saturday. the campus."
She added "students are getting; more sophisticated about the uses
This new policy will remain until Commenting on the expense
of a library. They realize llw help a
December. At that time the Claire said, "We will staff the
good librarian can be in looking up
Academic Affairs Department library with 28 extra hours of
references and also the other
will review the policy and decide if student help and will have a 
Marching Band dons new attire 
Notre· Dame's Marching Band last year which financed the 
the ru.. s, shoulders and collar.
will be attired in personally purchase of the 174 new uniforms. 
Ac~~:uts will be a white belt, white
designed "Irish" uniforms when They are the parents of a Notre 
stripe on lhf' pants, spats and a
they make their first public ap­Dame senior, John, who is not a 
wide rehbnn down the back with 
pearance of the year at the Nor­member of the band. Band 
the worr, lr;sh" emblazoned on it.
thwestern Univer<>ity football members will honor the couple 
They were disigned by a student 
game. during a special presentation at 
committee under the direction of
Topped by a jaunty tam, the halftime. 
Band Director Robert O'Brien and 
distinctive Notre Dame blue and The new uniforms feature a his assistants, James Phillips andgold colors will be accented this bright blue color with gold trim at Rev. George Wiskerchen, C.S.C. 
year by a sash of Irish plaid that ,------------------------------­
extends across the chest and down 

SUNDAY MASSES
the back. The copyrighted design of the 
(Main Church)
plaid, introduced last year for the first time by the Irish Guard, 
Sat. 5:15p.m. 
Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.
features the school's colors on a background of green. Notre 
Sun. 9:30 a.m. 
Fr. David Tyson, C.S.C.
Dame's former uniforms were predominantly Navy blue with a 
Sun. 10:45 a.m. 
Fr. Richard Conyers, C. S.C.
white tunic and tailored in a style 
similar-to other universities. 
Sun. 12:15 p.m. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C.
Mr. and Mrs. Don Peters of Hinsdale, Ill. 1421 Birchwood Rd.) 
Evensong will be at 4:30pm in the lady chapel. 
directed a fund drive during the 
(New time!) 

HOURS : MON ~ THURS 1.2-6 FRI-12-7 ~ T-10-5 
2216 MIAMI :sO. BEND 

S
IERRA PORTS ALE (ENDS SEPT 30th) 


ALL GERRY SLEEPING BAGS 
-20% OFF 

L ALL CAMP 7 
SLEEPING BAGS -20% OFF MANY OTHER SALE ITEMS ­
0% DISCOUNT ON NON-SALE TEM. N PURCHASE OF 125°0 OR MORE ITH ND OR SMC J.D. 
m~r atnlnnial 
1Jnncnkr ~nu11r 
:_h 

''Enjoy a snack or dinner" 
~-:·:-~:-:·:·:·:·:-:·:·:·:::::::::::::::::::-:::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::;::-.• 
::::" ":is Vilrieties of Pancdkes / 
":':ch1c kr>n Steak Sandwiches ::: 
/Friday Nites: Perch Dinners ~~: 
:k::::::::::::-.-:::::.:·:·:·:·:~·:·:::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::;.::;:{s; 
Your Ho<.,\

U.S. 31 (Di)(iP.Wcly) North 
(Across from Hol1day Inn l Bob Edwards, NO '50. 



~----------~~­
' "\•it:·'~" ?.\!;·_, ~~·~I
6 -__:me oeserver 


Dormitory lire alarms ignored by students 
by Cathy Cannon Staff Reporter 
The lack of response to alarms is the main fire hazard on campus according to an Observer poll. Half the students questioned revealed thay did not leave the dorm when hearing an alarm because they assume it to be false. 
Bro. Borromeo Malley, Notre Dame fire chief, said "since 75 per cent of the alarms on campus are false, it is understandable that the "-t~dents ingore them." But he warned, they run the risk or ingoring a real alarm someday. 
Bro. Michael BcGinnis, ·,,n assistant rector of ­Grace, said the hall staff worrtes about what would happern in a real fire because of the building's high­rise structure. 
Paul Laughlin, a Resident's Assistant in Flanner, feels the 

Awards ceremony Friday 
Leighton named to Board of Regents 
The Saint Mary's College Board 
of Hegents has named Judd 
Leighton, Mary Lou Morris 
Leighton, and Paul Gilbert 
recipients of the College's Com­
munity Service Awards for 1975. 
The awards will be presented Fr­
iday evening by John M. Duggan, 
president, at the Board of Regents 
dinner honoring the Leightons ad Gilbert. 
The Cvmmunity Service 
Awards, estaolished by the Saint 
Mary's College community 
relations council in 1974, honor 
Michiana residents who have 
exhibited outstanding dedication 
and service to the community, 
Duggan said. "We are extremely 
pltased to be able to express our appreciation to these three people," he said, "who have so selflessly devoted themselves to helping their neighbors live better lives.'' 
Judd Leighton is presently chairman of the board of Benica Industries and a director of Gulf and Western Industries, Associates Corporation of North America, and Sibley Machine and Foundry, South Bend. He is president and director of the St. HJoseph County Hospital Development, Inc., director and past president of Memorial J:Iospi•­
Law Council meets today 
by Christine Herlihy Staff Reporter 
A nationally selected Advisory Council will meet with the new dean of the Notre Dame law School today and tomorrow. 
The Council will reviev.:theschool and its developing computer system. 

The 24 council memebers, some of them Notre Dame alumni, were picked by Fr. Hesburgh to bring t­he benefit of their legal experinece and suggestions for developing the law school's educational goals. 
Dean Link will welcome the council and speak on the state of the Notre Dame Law School, and the elements necessary in preserving its reputation: the quality of faculty and students, curriculum, alumni support, placement of graduates, and budget. 
The council will review for the first time a unique information retrival system. Fr. Hesburgh's papers from te Civil Rights Commission will give an example of the legal and sociological in­
formation indexed into the computer bank. The second step of the discussed system invovles developing interconnecting ter­minals at Harvard, Michigan, Chicago, and Stanford law schools to draw this information. 
majority of residents do respond to the alarms. He added, "it is up to the R.A. to make sure the minority leaves." 
Malley thinks the Notre Dame fire safety system is the best 

· anywhere, except for the problem with false alarms. Heat detec­tors protect all the older dorms such as St. Ed's, Walsh, Sorin and l3j1_.dji_t . A fire could not burn in any of these halls for more than a few minutes without being detected. Once the fire is detected, the fire department can arrive in a few minutes. Malley says that even the older dorms would not start to burn in that amount of time. Because the newer dorms are built of fire­resistent materials, it is unlikely that a fire would spread outside the room in which it started. The Notre Dame department has two engines and aladder truck. Each alarm also goes to the South 
al, South Bend, and a memoer of the board of the South Bend Symphony Associaton. 
He· is secretary and director of the South Bend-Mishawaka Area Chamber of Commerce and a commission member of the Morris Civic Auditorium. He is also a board member of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. 
Mary Lou Leighton is president of the South Bend Symphony Or­chestra Association, Inc., past president and member of the executive committee of the 

Michiana Arts and Science Council, and past president of the L h 
Junior League of South Bend. 
She is a member of the 
University of Notte Dame Art Gallery Advisory Council, a member of the exutive committee of thesouth Bend Century C.Pntt•r Foundation, and a board meber of the South Bend chapter of the National American Red Cross. !:ihe also serves on the Mayor's Civic 
Committee and is a boar<'nH•mlwr of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. 
The Leightons were cited for their donation of their share of Tippecanoe Place to Southhold Restorations, Inc., this past year. 
Paul Gilbert, chairman of the board of the Gilberts' Stores, South Bend, has been involved in numerous civic activities over the years. He is a member of the South Bend Symphony Orchestra ( men's division), past dirP.ctor and Bend Fire Department. However, the South Behd department does not answer the alarm unless the Notre Dame department calls them. 
The power plant maintenance men answer the fire alarms during the day. Three Holy Cross brothers and four Notre Dame students make up the force at night. 
Pat Concannon, a Notre Dame student fireman, is confident they would be able to handle any fire they encounter. The three brothers on the force have years of fire-fighting experience. All the student firemen have experience on their hometown forces. He added, "the South Bend force could be on campus in two or three minutes if we hit anything big." 
The fire safety procedure in the dorms varies widely. Some dorms have excellent systems; others 
secretary of Memorial Hospital, and a member of the board of the Morris Civic Auditorium. 
A past president of the South Bend Board of Park Com­missioners and the South Bend Community Chest, Gilbert is presently a board member of the St. Vincent CDePaul Society, a member of the advisory council of the University of Notre Dame's College of Business Administrat­ion, and a past trustee of Saint Mary's College. 
rConlilllwd fro 111 ragc> I) 
up to Tuesday and 1 was nappy to 
see the same amount come out and 
vote," Slveson said. 
The representaive said it was 
hard to predict the year's 
progression, but he had some 
opmwns. "I'm optimistic about 
this year with th SLC. I think it has 
a great chance of working out. 
We'll start talking wit Student 
Government soon. I'd like to see 
work done on parietals,co-ed dorm 
and the things I stated in my 
campaign.'' 
Johy Lynch edged candidate 
Phil Mancini with 80 votes to 68. 
Lynch held 54 per cent of the 148 
off-campus ballots. Voting for off­
('ampus students was held at the 



i··tiMM·p·.xRrv·s·ran-E:···~
•

:OPEN: MON-SAT 9am-11pmii• SUNDAY 12noon -1 1 pm i : COLD BEER,WINE, LIQUOR, i i GORMET FOODS : : 3114 S. 11 St. NILES, MICHIGAN i 
...• "BIGGEST LITTLE :
. 

1~.11l~At\; ••••;
;;;;;;;;;,........_... 
have none at all. The hall rectors that do hold . fire drills cited previous fires or the dorm's age as reasons. 
Walsh Hall never had a fire drill until after a fire broke out on the third floor last year. When the alarm sounded, many residents did not recognize it, and did not leave the building. 
Sr. Susan Rosenbach, Walsh rectress said, "I think the fire was a blessing in disguise. It made us realize the importance of fire drills. We also have no trouble with residents not leaving the dorm when they hear the alarm.'' 
The St. Edward's Hall rector, Fr. William Presley, said he holds fire drills because St. Ed's is so old. He added "the residents of the hall realize a fire would be serious business, so I have no trouble with students ignoring the alarm." 
Most of the male halls do not hold fire drills. Generally, the rectors contacted in these halls said that drills were unneccessary. 
Fr. Carl Ebey, rector of Fisher, said he feels that the danger of fire damage in the dorm is minimal because of Fisher's stone and brick structure. 
Fr. Thomas Tallarida, Zahm Hall rector, thinks timing is the only important thing during a fire. Since Zahm has plenty of exits, he feels a drill is unimportant. 
Afew of the rectors said they had never thought of holding fire drills before, but now they would plan some. 

IN CASE OF FIRE 
DO NOT USE ELEVATORS, USE STAIRWAYS. 

Smoke and heat in elevator shafts can be fatal. The stair­ways are designed for your safety. 
ynC 

Salveson W"in SLC seats
I 
Huddle and the Library on Thursday. 
On voter turnout Lynch com­mented, "It's not bad considering te lack of publicity given and some confusion in the elections. Students didn't understand when or where they should vote. I wish there had been more voting. It was a good representation of the electoriate." 
stressed the importance 
of handling the alcohol situation. "We've got the alcohol proposal waiting to go. Ifwe can get it out of the way quickly we can restore confidence and interest and even possibly participation in the council.'' 
The totalstudent turnout con­sis ted of 2386 students. 2238 on campu and 148 off-campus with grace having the most votescast at 
and Di 



I I I I I I I 

'fll!ljj!iif!~ 
BRIDGET PREDICTS A VICTORY SHE IS HAVING A 




VICTORY PARTY 
AT HER PUB AFTER THE GAME ALL THE SHELLED PEANUTS 
I YOU CAN EAT I
I 

(FOOTBALL SAT. I 


~---~~~~J~~~~--J 

Logan Center seeking volunteers; 
•

offers students career exper1ence 
-----~ -­

.the gbserver 
U.S. to propose international grain reserve 
By DON KENDALL AI' Farm Writer 

WASHINGTON <APl -The United States will propose next Wl'ek that a world grain re­serve of :JO million metric tons he set up and held by individ­ual countries as a hedge against future shortages and famine, governmPnt documents showed Thursday. 
A draft of the U.S. proposal, to he presented next Monday and Tuesday at a meeting of the International Wheat Council in London, calls for each par­ticipating country to be "free to 
by Thomas Conaty Starr Ht>portt>r 

Logan Center needs student volunteers, Volunteer Services C­oordinator Mary Greeley an­nounced yesterday. 
Volunteer work gives students a chance to help others help their community and learn about future careers and opportnities, Greeley said. 
Volunteer opportunities present at Logan Center include: classroom volunteer. swimming pool volunteer, gym volunteer and special interests. 
A classroom volunteer assists the teachers in either individual t­utoring or small groups. The pool and gym volunteers work with the l'hildren on a one-to-<>ne basis teaching swimming skills and torrective therapy, respectively. 
Special interests volunteers ,•ssist in areas such as speech and hearing, occupational therapy and marts and crafts. These programs nwet twice a week for :10-minute dasses. 
Another program sponsored by Logan Industries is the homestart program. This program is for children from the infant age t six years and is held at St. Patrick's School, :109 S. Taylor Street. The work includes assisting teachers with speech and occupational therapy. Volunteers are needed for both morning and afternoon program.s The entire program runs from 9 to 2:30. 
Many volunteers are now working at Logan Center but many more are needed, Greeley said. The ND-SMC students play a vital part in the program. Without them the program could not exist, she was reportedly circulated on world reserve of 30 m.illion tons Wednesday among private com­would include 25 millions tons modity representatives who of wheat and 5 million of rice. were briefed at USDA on the Sources said the U.S. sha:-e forthcoming London meeting. would be one-fourth to onl"-t.hird 
Arcording to the plan, the of the total. 
Organ recital to be held 
Darlene Catello Gibson, a Prelude and l<'ugue in G Major by graduate student in music at Notre Bach, as well as compositions by Dame and organist at Westminster lsele, Jongen, Franck, DeGrigny Presbyterian Church, will present and an original composition. an organ recital at 8:15 p.m. The Notre Dame Music Sunday (Sept. 28) in Sacred Heart Department has announced that a Church. She is a student of Sue saxophone concert planned by Henderson Seid, University Dennis Bamber for Wednesday organist. COct. 8) has been postponed until a 
The recital, open to the public later date. without charge. will include 
• A Notre Dame • • tradition since • • 1936 -you'll see 8 
more quarterbacks • 
• 
here than on 

• the field. e 
• In Our • 
• Celebrity Lounge • 
: Chuck : 
e White e 
• Piano Bar and Dancing •

:···N-·i···~o·n··~-e~;;g. I 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. except home football game weekends. 

HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. Send this ad to your parents 
fAT 




WA lillY II S 
HAPPY HOUR DAilY 4 -7 
Free cheese and crackers 
Monday  -Football Night  
GIANT 7' SCREEN  
Tuesday  -Free Movies 9:00  

Wednesday -Ladies' Night (complete disco format) SATURDAY FOOTBALL SPECIAL 
open at 9:00 a.m. Large Sausage Pizza $2.88 carry out 277-0570 

2046 South Bend Ave. 

........... Of ,, Of•• -" • , 
determine how its reserves will be maintained" and to make available information on its own harvest prospects and needs. 
The U.S. proposal is expected to be delivered at the London meeting by Assistant Secretary of Agriculture Richard E. Bell. It was said to have been ap­proved by the State Depart­ment and will represent the of­ficial lJ .S. position at the meet­ing. 
In calling for individual coun­tries to build their own re­serves, the proposal rejects the idea of a separately held inter­national pool of grain favored by some world food leaders. Al­though it did not specify how the U.S. reserve would be built and maintained, Agriculture Secretary Earl L. Butz has said 
repeatedly  that  stockpiles  
should  be  held  by  the  farmers  
and private trade.  

Proposals have been made in Congress. however, for setting up a government-owned or managed grain reserve as part of a national commitment to meet future world hunger re­quirements. 
The draft of the proposal, made available to newsmen, 

added. volunteers daily from12:30 to 2:30 
The Logan School can -p.m., Greeley said. accomodate 25 volunteers daily Further informaton is available from 9 to 11:30 a.m. and 25 from Mary Greeley, 289-4831. 
Toulin to present lecture 
Dr. Stephen Toulmin of the Nature and Fruits'' is the topic at 8 Univeristy d Chicago, recognized p.m. Wednesday in the Galvin authority on epistomology and the Auditorium, and "Individual philosophy and history of science, Understanding: It's Nature and will present the "Perspectives in Successes" is the subject for a 
Philosophy'' lecture series on the final talk at 3 p.m. Friday in the Notre Dame campus Monday Memorial Library Auditorium. (Sept. 29) and Oct. 1 and 3. 
Toulmin's topic at 8 p.m. 
Toulmin is the author of "Reason 

Monday in the Galvin Life Science in Ethics" (1949l, "Philosophy of SCenter auditorium is "Philosophy Science" (1953) and 'Volume One and the Problem of Rationality." of "Human Understanding""Collective Understanding: It's (1972). 
In House 


Art program described 
The Artists-in-Schools Program {0-Ind.l. was described ·for a House of Bergin said the program, along
Representatives subcommittee with other excellent projects
today as "a quiet revolution in assisted by the arts, "has a greatwhich are contained the seeds of potential for contributing to the one of the most profound and education of our children and inpervasive changes in the history of helping America reassess its role

American education, changes 

towards the arts, S'l that they maywhich can touch all of our lives, indeed become an integral partand most importantly, touch and of everyone's life in thisenhance the lives of our children." 
country." 
Dr. Thomas P. Bergin, dean of The Notre Dame dean is a continuing education at Notre member of the newly formed Dame and a m~::mber of several American Council for the Arts in state and national cultural Education and a charter member organizations, made the comment of National Committee for Cultural during a meeting of the sub­Resources. He is also chairman of committee on Select Education, the Indiana State Commission of 
chaired by Rep. John Brademas the Arts. 

YOUNG & COMPANY WHOLESALE MEATS 
A TREAT WITH MEAT ... HAVE A GREAT SUPPER WITH 
OUR U.S.D.A. CHOICE MEAT, AND GIVE YOURSELF 
THE TREAT ON THE SAVINGS! 

PRIME RIB OF BEEF 
1.59 

CENTER CUT 

CHOICE BONElESS PORK CHOPS SIRlOIN ROAST 
1.69 lb 
1620 N. IRONWOOD 277-1020 


I , •• , '.o _... 0.. ""-' • -J!o oo •• 1. " .·I 
• Ill .... -...... .;. ,... .... __, •• 




r--------­
~ ~The Observer
~ ' on independent student newspaper Foundf'<l November 3, 1%6 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Manager 
EDITORIAL BOARD AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Jim Edl"r, Ex!"cutiv!" Editor; Pat Hanifin. Editorial Editor; K<'n Girouard, N<•ws Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; KE"n Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'NE"il, FE"ah.ir!"s Editor; Chris Smith, Photo Editor 
N•w• 2~9J~I~7~1~~------~B~u•~·n~•~n~2~8~J~74~7~1---------------1 
Friday, September 26, 1975 
--------------~~--------­

P. 0. Box Q 
chose to write this letterduring his illness, as it caused him to make a 
Applaud

Self few fundamental errors in analysis 
Defense The first assertion made by Matlovich Doctor Rigaux is that what hap­pened last year at Vassar has 
Dear Editor: nothing to do with this year at 
Dear Editor: In the past few days two people 3MC. This is true to the same 
~---~-----------­
.... 


op1n1on Seniors Instead Of Dragons phil quadrini 
Freshnwn will tell you that the first ten days of l'ollege life are t hl' strangest ever, but many a senior will say the same thing about tlwir Senior year. There is nothing like coming back knowing fu!l well that "this is it", that it's all over in May, that one will b" leaving the womb of Notre Dame and the womb of one's family and pass into the real world beyond. 
It's a numbing feeling. Perhaps you've already seen dazed people walking thru the auad mumbling "M.' -God-I'm-a-senior-what-do-I­do-next-year?", or some reasonable facsimile. And perhaps you've noticed that the Grotto 1s more lit up than usual, the doings of seniors who have told God that they will do whatever He wishes them to do next year because they certainly can't come up with anything.l'his is especially true of arts & letters people. 
And yet the parties on and off-campus are good tinws, the Senior Bar to The Library to Nickies to Corby's to Louie's Shuffle is · always exhilarating. Five-day weekends become an institution. Reading two chapters a night in anything is considered a moral \'ictory. And the girls here are nice to be with regardless of what the letters-to-the-editor say. I enjoy life here and I don't want it to l'nd. 
I would like to take my job placement manual, my law school handbook. my grad business school test application and do my part for the n•cyding movement. I am a senior yet I think like an underclassman and wish to continue to think like one. It would be nice to go to parties. chase women and hit the bars here forever. But one has to grow up sometime. 'IIHiso like many Seniors when 

have taken me to task as regards extent that Spiro Agnew doe!' not Recently Sgt. Leonard P. Mat­thpy'n' not drinking it up or watching a 99-yard fantasy at West my letter of September ninteenth warrant a tax audit this year just lovich of the United States Air Lafayette. I think of my future. There is business school at UCLA, concerning Dr. John Duggan. because he was caught cheating Force was denied his civil rights in law school at Arizona State. taking off to Southern California to Perhaps I might be allowed to last year. Learn from peol-':e•s his initial attempt to secure them. \ITitt• a novel. joining the Peace Corps. working for my friend AI explain myself. past mistakes! Let every man A panel of three officers at Langley Lowt•nstein if he runs for Congress, or even taking a job. 
Let,s start chronologically with have a second and third chance, Air Force Base recommended But the .ll•mptation to stay at Notre Dame is an intense one when Assistant Professor J:lruce Lar­but let's also be aware of what sort Matlovich be spearated from the I n•ml'mht•r that too many of my friends are sophomores and son's letter of October 23 of mentality just passed throught service with a less than Honorable _juniors. that all of my five roommates are not yet seniors.' lneof my 
discharge because he is an avowed roommates informl'd nll' that if some girl had me wrapped

The point Professor Larson the door. makes is that there is no con­Finally, Dr. Rigaux fails to see 
homosexual. around her finger I would be sure to stay here. I just laugh because nection between campus cliches howthe scandal and Dr. Duggan's The Gay Students of Notre Dame I haven't considered that and do not really want to because I am a have sent a letter of support to Sgt. st•nior and seniors are only supposed to consider "the rational" ...
and censoring a 'bad taste' student quotes relate to lip service on his Matlovich which reads: And Ihe rational says there are a lot of people who are going to beyearbook. Although the book part. My response is the 
probably was in bad taste, one yearbook scandal demonstrated a Dear Sgt. Matlovich. making the toughest decision of their lives between now and May. cannot use this as an excuse for lack of confidence in the autonomy administrative censorship. of Vassar's student staff and We applaud your forthright act 
singalong junk

Student publications must be run a lack of confidence in the of revealing your sexuality to your by students. They accept the student body. I said before, the superiors and your fellows. And praise or blame for its quality. disrespect for the student mind we wholeheartedly support your 


After

Perhaps Professor Larson would might cause one to be on guard for legal effort your legal effort to have Dr. Duggan suppress all future manifestations of the same secure your civil rights in an instit­letters critical of him in the future? thing. ution which historically has denied 

Three Weeks

But how does this apply to Lo and behold, they occur. I these rights to homosexual campus cliches? The answer is cited Dr. Duggan's quote "I am persons. 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii___.~ jo e giII

that the Vassar incident and committed to enhancing the It is our hope uustice will 
Duggan's alumni-pleasing stat­tremendous sense of community prevail, and our conviction that life Three weeks have passed. ements are manifestations of an that is here" as an example of a in the United States of America Some of the initial impressions remain, others altered slightly,attitude which has minimal euphonic, empty statement will be significantly better for all and still others markedly changed. The duLac community, as I am respect for the intellect and designed to patronizingly please people as a result of your finding out. ean become a market of bewllderment and perplexity.responsibility of the student. If people. What "tremendous sense courageous stand. No. young Knave. the search for the Holy Grail has not resulted he's not mature enough to make of community,' is he referring to? in the finding of a tarnished cup. The green light across the lake decisions of content for his own Surely within three weeks Dr. Sincerely. still shines brightly for Gatsby. Nay, the quest must go on. yearbook, then the same stutlent Duggan has noticed the strained, But with the coming of autumn comes feelings of discon­will tamely accept anything said often resentful relations between Gay Students of Notre Dame t'Prnnwnt. uneasiness. Classes and sleepless nights, and freshmen by the Administration as The the two campuses and "word­Sgt. Matlovich will continue th­at'l' like leaves in the wind that make one last effort to stay aloft, Word, regardless of quality or s,words,words" like these aren't rough appeals his fight lo maintain hut nevertheless fall. The workload has been thrust upon us like the content. Why bother with clarity going to change things. his career in the Air Force. first snow fall. Yesterday was spent "shovelling" much or accuracy? Issue state-One final word: don't misun­honww01·k. But even as we put our tools away for the evening, the 
ments occasionally and they'll derstand me, I appreciate const­(ia~· Studt'nts or Notrt' Dame ~·ardis still full of snow. However, the decision has been made; we 
bleat with happiness. ructive criticism. It's good for all an' part of du Lac. 
On September twenty-fourth of us. Any further comments or There is. and there has to be, more to life at Notre Dame than Doctor Armand Rigaux submitted questions. see me in my office. Commends 
SCHOOLWORK. I'm really not sure if I should be studying now a more caustic letter headlined Paul Kruse instead of writing these thoughts. Winter, though, will soon be 
"Nausea Waves." It is most­regrettable that Doctor Ri~~;aux 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
,.., V / GOO!), VH.. JIM, -~ •THATtL JIMMY/ 7H£t<E'R£ "'ffkJI 'EM NOT SOUNOS ON. ~16HT J 10 ME55 tullH lET's QJT UNION f/. 5. 9000Y5/. ." IT.. ' MU51C/AN5 
0 tJ \ H/3R8 ... 
~ 
~ ~­
t_, 

--:7..5 11'!1 
5HEPUT5A OAMMrr; J/M!­

LOT OF EFFOI<T Wt.'R& IN 71-f/3 THATMfAN5 INTO £¥NNE/<. MIOOL-13 OF A NOTHING TO THEL-EA5T I VERY 5(){WUUP_ A Of£E5£ CAN IXJ t5 VERY EXPtNSIV! 50UFFd. 
BE R£CORJ)/NG / '\ 0/ITEl ~ 
here. and the cool breeze from my window is refresinng. There is a
Duggan 
tinw for l'verything. Later, I will study, and study, and study ... Sonw experiences stay with you, as life in a dormitory has with l>t>ar Editor, nit'. Dorm life is like walking into an insane asylum and finding out 
I am writing at this time to the inmates have taken over. The mightly contests of hurlingcommend Dr. Duggan for what he frisbees through narrow hallways and the wonderful "quiet" hours did in the "Vassar yearbook n•mind me of the mellow atmosphere of a kennel during feecing
scandaL" Dr. Duggan deserves to lime' be congratulated for not allowing Another aspect. that of living with a roommate, also comes to the printing of those two pictures. 111ind. l\1y roommate is a man of great culture. He is an ex­I, for one, and I know many others traordinary mixture of Hank Kimball (county agent from Green 
who share my opinion, are happy 
:\('res I and South Bend origins. On his bulletin board hangs a that he had the courage to act out pil'!ure of his dog "Blarney", and his record collection consists of his deep convictions. It is a solely of Chuck Berry and Jerry Lee Lewis! 
blessing to have this kind of gen­lit• i~ a \'aluab\e source of comfort and understanding to those in tleman as president of St. Mary's llt'l'd. Like me. The other day, I had been engaging in a vicious College. 
I ira de against homework. classes, and tests, finally ending with the In a day adn age when most lanwnt. "I know I'm going to fail this test and drop out." After people don't know up from down, it listl'ning patiently for about ten minutes, my roommate looked upis comfortimg to know someone to <llld said. "I wonder who my new roommate is going to be when you know someone who has real moral llunk out.," leadership. St. Mary's made and I'm still impressed by the Dome by night, the Grotto, the ducks, 
excellent .choice when they 
;md Darby O'Gill. On rainy days. the smile of an entire campus is selected Dr. Duggan as president. 
sunshine in itself. Jot' Corpora Thr small leaf made one last attempt to turn back and then fell gt•ntly. acceptingly. to the ground.
All letters to the editor should be sent to The Observer, Editorial Editor, Post Office Box 
the observer
Q or brought to the office of The Observer located on the top floor Editorials: JRR
Night Editor: Boone Sanchez 
of the LaFortune Student Center. 
Assistant Night Editor: Tom Reatures: Val Zurblls Only letters with names and O'Neil Sports: Bill Brink, Tom Kruczek,
addresses will be considered for Layout Staff: Anne Reilly, Jim Garth Hudson print. Signatures will be withheld 
Commyn, Mick Avory, Dave Typists: Mel Celeste, Howard upon request, but signed letters Davies, John Dalton Halle, Tessie Clements, Candywill be given priority. 
Day Editor: Maureen Flynn, Compugraphic: Chip Spina All letters are subject to editing Margie lrr Night Controller: Martha Fanningfor length and taste, and should Copy Reader: Fred Herbst, Mary Ad Layout: Tom Whelan, Joe 
be concise as possible. Egan Gralf 


I l
Friday, September 26, 197S 

.J I
Letters to a Lonely 
j 
I j 
l
one if b!J land, two if b!J sea I I 

New York City waiters will It'll you this story of B('auty and the 1\t>ast. and they will insist that it is true. I am sure that it is true. I saw the couple at diruwr: I noticed. when they rcft, both of them Wt're in tears. impulsively, I asked if I could help. I was there when the waiter found the ring. Months later, when he told nH· the story. I askt'd him how he knew so much about private conversations. "There are many restaurants in New York," he said, "and there are many waiters, door­nwn. and elevator operators: and we are a fratPnity. It pays to know what is hap­))('ning. Sometimes a husband asks. or a policeman. Sometimes a lady h~s a boyfrit>nd who wants us to keep qutet. He shrugged his shoulders, as if to indicate that ht• had no particular loyalties among thos£: who might inquire. "One has to make a living somehow." he said. 
Th(• place had once been Aaron Burr's eoach house, the waiters say. Now it was a rather expensive Greenwich Village rPstaurant called One If By Land,Two If By Sea. There were tall, tapering candles, as ('haste as church lights, burning on each table. and the beauty of the place was breath-taking and shrine-like, as when nuns an• at prayer in Spanish cathedrals. 
When they entered the place, the couple was. despitf:' middle age, like young lovers: 
Pager. excited with each other, each of ' tht•m finding a beauty or goodness in the oUwr that the rest of us couldn't notice. When they departed after dining, they left b(•hind them on the table a silver ring markt•d with a cross and inscribed: "Then­Now Always." Later, when one of them st>nt a nwssenger for the ring, the maitre d' askNI: "Who were they" What is their story'' !low could they have left such a ring llt•hind tht•m"" 
"I'm only a messenger.'' the friend of the 
!'ouple n•plied: "I don't know anything." 
As slw was going out the door, she could 

how green (and siluer) IS , m!J quad 
"Let there be light," and there was light. So, in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. He gave man domain over the world which was filled with animate and inanimate ofjects. On the seventh day God rested. 
Now, man , created in God's image, was also to rest on Sunday. But man was anxious and fidgety. He wanted something to do and he refused to rest. So God looked upon the earth and said, "Let there be big, green lawns of grass in city and suburbia. Let each owner become jealous of his yard so that he spends vast amounts of time tending it. Let the lawn become the symbol of status amongst people. And let Saints Seotts and Lawnboy provide mspiration and guidance." So it came to be. God saw it was good ... 
Three nrPthodologies of warding the feet of pt>oplc off of the grass (\o prevent erushing, matting, breaking, smashing, 
pulverising,  ad  infinitum  et  ad  
nauseam l  have  been  created  by  the  
ingenious American mind:  

I. Wherf'a person cuts across the lawn, stay in house and swear under breath while gesticulating violently. Assailant always leaves. Method fails to discourage repeaters. 
2. Heating assailant, especially children, over the head with a bat. This method discourages repeaters. Causes problems with disposal and the D.A. 
:!. This is an impersonal, preventative measure developed in the Experimentation Cente~ of Building 36 at Notre Dame. While full results are not yet ready, its success and superiority are easily seen in the following documentof ND War CXXXIV: 
Communique to Chief of the Allied Ad­ministrators James Burtchael; From The Keeper of the Grass and other Small, Green Things which Grow under God's Sun at Not,.... Dame Joseph Chopjob. 


robert jacques 
Sir: 
All is quiet on the southern quad. 
The front has been secured in all but one section and has been purged of the tram­pling, crushing, digging, scraping, scuffing, and murderous feet of the enemy. 
All credit for this coup goes to the anti­personal post-and-wire barricades which have succeeded in eliminating the destructive, wanton and malicious enemy maneuvers 1codenames: Football, shortcutting, strolling) from our priceless green grass. 
Sir' The ingenuity of the raising of the wire in the dark of the night when the enemy was unaware makes me glow with pride to know I'm on our side' When they saw the sun reflecting off that beautiful silver wire in the morning, they were so shocked that chaos broke out 1 There was no retaliation! Only retreat 1 
Whoever designed this strategm deserves 
the greatest honor our nation can bestow, 
the Legion of the Inverted Dome. May I say, 
sir, I hope it was you so that you can add this 
one to your collection. 
The enemy has retreated in groups of up 
to 22 to the area near our Stepehn In­
doctrination Center. I t•xpect a new ship­
mmt of wire soon. With it we'll force the 
enemy off our lands. We will be rid of them' 
How delightful! 
There is one problem remaining to be 
solved. That is, it has been brought to my 
attention that scattered enemy troops have 
been spotted at night on the southern quad 
jumping up and down on the green grass, 
kicking at it, and tearing it out while yelling, 
"Kill! Kill! Kill!" 
Allow me to suggest planting land mines. 
They are always very effective. And if not 
that, at least let loose at niaht several 

trained Doberman Pinchers. Hungary ;ones are best ... 
reverend robert griffin 
!war the maitre d' telling the others: "She says she's only a messenger. She says she tl!wsn't know anything." 
<'andle light. a silver ring, and red roses freshly cut in a summer garden; red roses bought by a middle-aged man for a woman approaching forty: roses that were capable of being a language expressive of need and desire: the only roses, really. ever bought for Ikauty and the Beast. The rosebuds of a feastof friendship, now the flowers at the tuneral of an evening that has died. They lay as throways on the table beside the ring, as though only the candle, casting shadows, remembered they were there. The waiters, finding them. would say: "How can people bP so careless?" What do waiters, worried about table debris, know about being l'aretess" 
Later, Beauty would tell the Beast how smug he had seemed that evening. "I'm not used to having rings flung across the table at nw.'' she said. 
"I didn't fling it at :ou," he replied. "I tossed it into your open purse. You later plaeed it on the table ~ourself." 
"It felt as though it were flung," she said. 
ill' wondered if she really remembered what had happened. "You shouldn't have trit'd to make me jealous," he said. It was silly and pitiable of her to want to make him jt•alous. he thought, and it was completely unnecessary. 
"If men want to make you expensive gifts." he said. "you don't have to mention them to me. You don't have to dangle them on your wrist while we're having dinner." 
"You are deliberately choosing to misunderstand me," she said tragically. "lh• was an old and precious friend. He wanted to do something nice for me because I had ht>lped him through lonliness when his wift> died. Six weeks later, he married snnwbody l'lse." 
"Thl•n why did you have to lie to your husband''" he said. "Why did he tell you to 
say it was a g1ft from your mother?" "Bt•cause I was being considerate," she said, "if you can understand what it means to be considerate. I didn't want to hurt either one of them." "I had a gift I was going to buy for you," lw said. "bPfore you made me feel so cheap. I've honestly and truly never had an affair before." "You'n• not having one now," she said. "•\II you ever do is preach." 

I
'If men want to make ijOU l 
I 
I 
I 
I
expensive gifts, ... you don't haue to I I 
J 
l dangle them ot1 your wrist." I 
l I 
l 
"I\ makes mt• feel pretty cheap," he said, "being this season's boyfriend. I knew I could never be Number One, but I've tried not to hurt your marriage. It's rPally, really shabby, finding out I'm Number Fifteen on the totem pole. How many affairs have you had anyway? How many eorporation pn•sidents have sent you gifts that you've lied about''" 
"None.'' she said, "none at all. You'r<> making me feel like something dirty, and it isn't fair." 
"I feel great." he said. "I don't feel the IPast bit cheap." 
''I'm sorry if you feel cheap," she said. "1 love you more than I've ever loved anyone in my whole life." 
"It's certainly pretty to think so," he said miserably. 
So in the gleam of candlelight, a silver ring was left beside rosebuds on the white lirwn of a Village table. She had giveu him the ring with its ambiguous promise of "Then-Now--Always": he had worn it until jealousy destroyed his peace of mind. Tlwy left it behind them, at the end of their 
nwal together. because, after quarrelling, both of them were too hurt and too proud to own the modest bauble. But an hour later, the lady phoned the restaurant to make sure the rrng was safe. Within the week, the ring was clainwd, and restored to the lady's safekeeping. 
"About a month after this," the waiter said, "Bc.auty came back to the restaurant. This time, she was with a younger guy. And do you know what the dude was wearing?" 
"A silver ring marked with a cross?" 1 asked. 
~ tu week preuiew i 
: • bu tom o'neil i• 
• :7 • 
The best of the movies to be aired this week will be Sleepec, Woody Allen's masterpiece of situation comedy and "one­liners"--the story of a health food store manager who awakes after having an ulcer operation in the year 2173 (and wrapped in tin foil. no less). He is defrosted by scien­tists, sought by the secret police, and chased through the labryinth of a futuristic world containing robots, "orgasmitron", and orbs which transmit "highs" to their holders. The movie is the best of the Woody Allen crop, and easily his most popular movie at the box office. To be aired Friday, Oct. 3rd, at 8:00 on 28. 
Ft'ar on Trial, the story of a radio en­tertainet who is blacklisted, and involves himself in a passionate struggle to clear his t'lame in an excellent drama and an ab­sorbing motion picture. George C. Scott plays the leading role. To be shown Thur­sday on CBS. 
The other movies include The Man Who Lowe1! Cat Dancing and For Pete's Sake, both disappointing films in view of their excellent casts. For Pete's Sake is an at­
tempt to re-create the slap-stick success of What's up Doc?' but both Streisand and script fall short of full entertainment. The 
. .
M~n who L?ve~ Cat Oa~cmg may be an 
enJoyable v1ewmg expertence for women knee-deep in Women's Liberation, but Sarah Miles and Burt Reynolds do little to excite the average viewer. 
Cat Dancing can be seen Saturday on 
NBC, and For Pete's Sake, Sunday on ABC. 
The NFL television schedule for this Sunday is as follows:. The Dolphins vs. the Patriots at noon on Ch. 16; Eagles vs. Bears at I p.m. on 22; and the Bills vs. Steelers on Ch. 16. Monday Night football will feature the Packers against the Broncos on channel 28. A preview to the Ali-Frazier fight can be watched on Channel nine out of Chicago on Saturday at 9:30pm. Otherwise a similar preview of the bout will be the focus of the Wide World of Sports an 28 at 4 p.m. 
The specials this week will include ex­tensive news coverage of the state visit by Japan's figure-emporer Hirohito. He is expected in the U.S. on September 30 for a two week stay, so expect a great deal of news time focused upon this unprecedented confrontation between a U.S. nresident and an American antagonist durmg World War 
U . , .. ~astly' Chrtstopher Marlowe s E~ward 
II <as performed on the BB~> wll~~ shown °~ 34_, Thursday• 9:t 9·00. . 
presentation IS one of the fmest dramattc 
d f · ece t ears. The acting and 
pro. utc Ions ml r d'dn Yd su b 
scnp are sp en 1 an per . 
"You betcha life," he said. "Inside, it was probably inscribed with the words" ­he pronounced the words dramatically, as though he had been understudying for Hamlet--''Then-Now-Always." 
"So you happen to know who the second gentleman was"" I said. 
"Who?" he asked. 
"It was her husband," I said. "Do you 

I
know who brought them together in the One 

I
If By Land Two If Bv Sea"" 

j 
"II sure wasn't Aaron Burr," he said. "It was the middle-aged man you call lkast.'' I said. 

!
"How do vou know"" he said. "I know a lo't of things," I said. I didn't tell • him that we clerics have an even more impressive fraternity than the waiters and ~ doormen do. 
"Dot•sn't it seem kind of gauche to give orw guy another guy's ring"" "I\ wasn't the same ring," I said. "The Bt•ast got his won ring back." "A lovely memento of being Number Fifteen on the totem pole," the waiter siad. 
"Being Number Fifteen wasn't im­portant. and it wasn't true," I said. "Beauty had told the Bt>ast she loved him: 'I love you more than I've ever loved anyone in my whole life.' As a middle-aged man, he needed that. A middle-aged man always nt•eds to hear that somebody beautiful loves him. She told him once: Love puts a silver ring on your finger. She said she always gives the people she loves a silver ring." 


"She must have a whole drawer full of those rings," he said. 
It doesn't help some waiters to find a silver ring gleaming with light among the rosebuds. Maybe it was because he wasn't middle-aged, 1 thought. Maybe he was too young to understand that middle-age is a timewben silverrings bring out the beauty 
in the beast. 
Maybe, for some beastly middle-aged men, a silver ring is the most romance they l'an hope to have. The candle light and roses belong to the events shared by the husbands of the women they care about. 



Holy Year brings 'new energy' 
Pope Paul reported in good health at 78 
By EDWARD MAGRI Associated Press Writer 
VATICAN CITY <APl Pope Paul VI turns 78 on Fri­day and friends say he is in good health and that the sight of millions of Holy Year pil­grims has been like an "in­jection of new energy." 
As usual, no formal birthday celebration is planned. 

Harris ntother doubts Hearst k~dnapping, insanity claint 
CARMEL, Ind. <APJ -The 
mother of Symbionese Liber­
ation Army member William 
Harris said Thursday she is 
skeptical of Patricia Hearst's 
claims she was kidnaped and 
driven to insanity through men­
tal and physical torture. 
Betty Bunnell of Carmel, Ind., just north of Indianapolis, told The Indianapolis News in a 
copyrighted story she always has questioned the Hearst ab­duction. 
"I can remember an FBI agent asking me that many, many months ago," Mrs. Bun­nell said. "He said, 'You have the feeling that· this sort of a putup, then.' and I said I had the thoughts." 
Mrs. Bunnell said she be­
lieved Miss Hearst's defense at­
torney was using an argumPnt 
"we would have all expected. I 
think the seeds toward the de­
fense had been planted very 
carefully for the last several 
months by the <Hearst> family. 
"Mrs. Hearst in interviews just this weekend used phrases and words .. .for instance, her use of the term Patty being 'spaced out,"' she said. "Well, 
you immediately get the idea 
she had been drugged." 
Mrs. Bunnell and her hus­
band, Jerry, stepfather of the 
30-year-old SLA member, vis­
ited Harris and his wife Emily· 
in the San Mateo County Jail in 
Redwood City, Calif., after their arrest. 
She said that while the Har­rises were not linked with the Hearst kidnaping and sub­sequent bank robbery, they nonetheless were connected with Patty Hearst's 19-month disappearance. 
Mrs. Bunnell said her husband visited 
~.................... 
The pontiff proclaimed this the "year of reconciliation" for a Church troubled by internal dissent and controversy over papal authority and such issues as abortion and birth control. 

The response to Paul's Holy Year call has surpassed his own expectations. Vatican offi­cials estimated that more than 4 million persons have already made the pilgrimage with an-
rises in 1974 found them to be Harris'' mother said her sor. "two young people who to this "in no way" would be a part of day are consci,ous of physical anything that involved mental fitness. And if you read any and physical torture. She said kind of revolutionary literature, Harris "is very kind. He was a 
drugs are not a part of their kind, loving boy and he's that lives and physical fitness is a kind of man." major part of their lives. 
"So, things like that-those Mrs. Bunnell added that she 
little phrases you begin to and her husband, a retired Air hear-and then you think, oh, Force lieutant colonel, did not now they're planning how talk with Patty Hearst's par­they're going to do it. That ents while both families were in 
would be the logical way to set California from last Saturday up the defense." until Wednesday. 
Reemphasization needed 


SARG future discussed 
J. Patrick Boyle, student government representative to the Notre Dame Alumni Association, will meet with Joseph White, alumni spokesman, this afternoon to discuss the future status of SARG <Student-Alumni Relations Group>' 
SARG was instituted at NO in the Sixties in order to open relations between Notre Dame students and alumni. The organization provides the opportunity for students to work more closely with the alumni in setting up job placement and relocation programs, scholarship funds and other related matters, Boyle said. 
Boyle is concerned with re-other 3 million expected by the end of the year. 
Paul has always loved the sight of religious crowds. And he has done everything possible not to miss the chance to mingle with the throngs of pil­grims descending on Rome. 
"The Holy Year has been a powerful injection of new ener­gy for him." said Sergio Cardi­nal Pignedoli, a close friend of _ 
establishing a strong relationship peace. between SARG and the Alumni "All we are asking is that each Association. "SARG's importance person t~y to. take fifteen minutes 
has been somewhat de-emphasized from their daily schedule to say the 
over the past year or so," Boyler--.-~----::---------­
explained. Apphcahons be1ng taken Sept. 24 -26 f 
"It has suffered as a result of the f f C 11 f S · · ' 
recent. cha~ges in office of the t or a 0 ege 0 Clence representative' execut.Ive. director of the Alumni to the Academic Council f 
AssociatiOn. James Cooney f • f resigned in June of '74, and the Any intrested Science or Science -intent ' 
newly-appointed director, Tom f f Pagna,resignedinAugustofl975,, should submit his name and brief 
after six months in office," he said.' f The Alumni Association isf Statement Of purpose tO the f meeting thi~ wee~end to select af Science Council Nominating Committee , 
new executive director for the ' ' currently vacant seat. '-_ ~ .Q.f.1U;-'. ~ _.; 
the Pope. 
Another Vatican prelate held up a recent issue of an Italian magazine whose cover story said "the Holy Year is killing the Pope" from fatigue. "All rubbish," the prelate said. 
The pontiff's personal physi­2ian, Dr. Mario Fontana, al­ways stands close to the Pope during the lengthy celebrations in St. Peter's Basilica and at other public appearances. 
This Sunday, Pope Paul will declare Juan Macias, a Spanish friar who died 340 years ago, a saint. The ceremony will take place in St. Peter's Square, where two weeks ago the pon­tiff proclaimed Mother Eliza beth Ann Seton the first native­born saint of the United States. The canonizations are among the ceremonies Pope Paul per-
To recite Rosary 
New prayer group formed 
A new prayer group, the Fatima Society, has been started on campus this year. The Fatima Society, started by senior Joe Corpora, is composed of members of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community who pledge to say the rosary daily, thus helping to fulfill Our Lady's request for world forms most enthusiastically. 
Except for recurrent pain from spinal arthrosis, Paul stood up remarkably well ing the seemingly endless Holy Year observances. 
Last year he suffered three attacks of flu and had to pare his Easter week schedule the advice of doctors. But since he opened the Holy Year Christmas Eve.. he has missed a single ceremony. 
Despite his apparent good health, there is still much about who will succeed Paul, whose reign began in 1963. general trend seems in favor another Italian. There has been a non-Italian pontiff since the one-year reign of Holland's Adrian VI in 1522. The Pope is elected by cardinals meeting in a closed-door conclave. 
Rosary," commented Corpora. The group will meet this Sunday for the first time. All members of IND-SMC community are invited to join in praying the Rosary. 
Corpora said that he started the group because no one pays any attentionto theVirgin Mary and to help fulfill Our Lady's request for 
world peace and the conversion of sinners. Anyone desiring more information is asked to please call Joe Corpora at 3111. 


"FAREWELt, MYUNEU" 
ROBERT MITCHUM 
til 
CHARLOTTE RA MPLI NG 
JOHN IRELAND FRI. FORUM fl 
*•**
N. Y. Daily News 

Vittorio Sica's 
/: COME RAIN OR SHINE TO TOWN & COUNTRY FOR YOUR FAVORITE 
WINES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
LIQUOR • WINE 10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC J.D. BEER· BEST PRICE IN TOWN VOLUME DISCOUNT FREE DELIVERY 
FREE DELIVERY 
.... 


-~-­
. ' • t , ""I 
Friday, September 26, 1975 
the observer 

Returning from summer recess --. 
Supreme Court to confront death penalty 
Hy W. DALE NELSON 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON CAP> -The Supreme Court returns from its summer recess Monday facing an accelerated schedule, a mounting caseload and a broad range of issues including anoth­er look at the death penalty. 
Among other cases are ones involving laws on courtroom use of illegally obtained evi­dence. due process and obscen­ity. 
In an unprecedented move prompted by Chief Justice War· ren 1<:. Burger's concern over caseloads, the justices are meeting a Wl'ek early. 
The court's rules call for it to convene on the first Monday in October and begin hearing cases the following Monday "unless otherwise ordered." 
In the past. the justices have met briefly on opening day and then spent thl' rest of the first week in a closed-door confer· l'nce deciding which cases to accept for argument. 
This year, the week-long eon· ference will precede the formal opening. When the court con­venes on the bench on Oct. 6, it will begin hearing arguments immediately. 
Although the total of cases on the court's docket last term was down slightly from the prP­ceding term, Burger says that the workload is steadily in­creasing over the long range. 
The death penalty case is one which the court failed to decide last term. It asked lawyers to come hack and argue again. 
The court ruled in 1972 that the death penalty laws then on 

Couple denied refugee falnily for operating nudist colony 
II\ 1'1-:'1 Ell :\1. 11;\a.UEI\ .h'!l('iatt>d l'n·ss \\'ritt'J' 
<;LEN GAHDNI<:H. N.J. <AP) 
Earl and Lucille Hansen have t.een rebuffed in their ef­forts to sponsor two more Viet­IHiml·se rt>fugees because they run a nudist eolony. 
"I was watching television one day last June and I saw an appeal for sponsors for Viet· namese refugees at Indiantown Gap in Pennsylvania," said Mrs. Hansen. 
They went through the nor­mal refugee chi.ltlnels with the 
U.S. <'atholic (',.nference and last .July ended up with Binh Van Tran. 27, .md Ho.mg Van Nguyen, 24, both veterar·· of the South Vietnamese navy. 
"I called for an application and filled it out, putting down 'naturalist resort' as place of 
now appearing in the 

MARTIN & LINDSEY with NfGHTLIFE 
(This weekend no cover charge with student I.D.) 


HAPPY HOUR Mon.-Fri. 4:00-7:30 LADI,ES' NIGHT Tues. 8:00-10:00 MEN S NIGHT Thurs. 8:00-10:00 
EVERY MONDAY-REDUCED PRICES ON BEER AND BAR DRINKS 
"'~ · · · ed t ad . 7 ft. TV screen for
,...,.,ropnote ott1re requtr or mttfance 
Monday night football. 

rr~~"'"TH'E HEADQUBoARTERhS. w... 
1,\_ ~: ~ . . PARKMOR PLAZA, BRISTOL ST. (BYPASS 111) ELKHART 
the books were uncon· stitutional. The case now before it arises out of a North Caro­lina court decision permitting capital punishment to continue in that state. 
The justices have also been asked to consider more than a score of cases arising under death penalty laws which have been passed since their 1972 ruling. They may accept one or more of these for hearing along with the North Carolina case. 
Lawyers of the NAACP Legal Defense Fund seek a ruling that capital punishment is un­
constitutional  under  any  cir­ 
cumstances.  
On  another  criminal  law  

question, the court will give re­newed scrutiny to the ex­clusionary rule, barring illegal­ly obtained evidence from courtroom use. 
In a decision last June, the court said that at least in some cases this rule should be ap­plied "only if it can be said that the law enforcement offi­cer had knowledge, or may properly be charged with knowledge that the search was unconstitutional." 
This term the court will re­view at least two lower court rulings applying the rule. One barred the use of a pistol as evidence in a Los Angeles mur­der case because it was seized under a vagrancy ordinance found to be unconstitutional. The other held that explosives paraphernalia found by Omaha, Neb., police in the home of a murder suspect were improper­ly used as evidence in his trial because the police lacked legal grounds to search the home. The scope of the Con-
residence. I didn't feel we had anything to hide," Mrs. Hansen said. 
"It worked out so well, Earl and I decided last month to sponsor two more. We fi1led out a ~;econd application the same way and sent it off. But a Cath· olic priest at Indiantown Gap saw that we ran a nudist colo­ny, and he rejected it." 
A few days later, the Han­sens were contacted by the Rev. Haymond Bianci, who headed the refugee settlement program for the usee in the Trenton Diocese. 
"He told us he had been na­ive and didn't know what a 'naturalist resort' was," Mrs. Hansen said. "He said, 'That kind of environment isn't good for them' and told us th(' usee might reconsider the original sponsorship." 
in the 

Mail Pouch Hoom 
The Hansen's contacted their alto' qey. who assured them the original sponsorship was irrevo­cable. 
Father Bianci declined to dis· cuss the Hansen case. 
Despite the controversy, Binh and Hoang are immensely proud of their ·rapid American­ization. 
"~ am very happy because I have a good sponsor, and so is my friend," Binh said. "Nudity is no concern of mine. Some people think it's a moral thing. I am happy. I obey my con­science. I am moral." 
Binh and Huong work on the erounds of the resort during the day, then labor in a nearby fac­tory for eight hours each night. 
Both readily accept their en· vironment, although neither goes naked except when swim­ming 
plush New Orleans Room 
George Graves 
stitution's guarantee of due process of law, which Justice Lewis F Powell Jr., suggested last term is getting out of hand, will also be up for review again. 
The Constitution prohibits any state action which deprives a person of his life, liberty or property without due process. In recent years, the court has said that the application of this clause depends on how signifi­cant the interest involved is and how substantial the depr­ivation. 
Last January, however, it ruled 5-4 that due process re­quires at least an informal hearing before a public school student can be suspended for even one day. 
This term, the court will con­sider whether due process re­quires a hearing before dis­ability benefits can be dis­continued because the recipient has recovered and whether a state may require persons who quit work to wait 75 days be­fore applying for welfare. 
Another question of due proc­ess will be presented in a case confronting the court again with the long-standing con­troversy over the power of states to control obscenity. 
In recent years, many states have required that a work be found obscene in a civil trial before a person can be charged with breaking the Jaw by sell­ing or exhibiting it. This is an approach suggested, although not demanded. by recent Su­preme Court decisions. 
A Birmingham, Ala., book­store operator -backed by or­ganizations of publishers, magazine distributors and mov­
iemakers -says the procedure 
violates due process, at least 
the way it is applied in Ala­
bama. 
The bookseller, Chester McKinney, complains that he was convicted in the criminal trial without being able to chal­lenge the evidence presented in the civil trial. The state replies that the procedure merely "eliminates the guesswork on the part of dealers in obscene publications" by putting them on notice what they may not sell. 
Other cases to be heard present challenges to mandato­ry retirement laws, state aid to church-related colleges, hair length restrictions for police-

D DEALER SAYS: RENT OR BUY A NEW FORD AT 
JORDAN-FORD 609 E. JEFFERSON MISHAWAKA,
• RENT·A·CAR 
INDIANA 
SPECIAL DI~COUNTS WITH STUDENT OR FACULTY 1.0. 

DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS ~ 
f.I\V'c-JEWELERS ~ VA.aSINCE.1917: 
0 
Downtown South Bend ••Town & Country Shopping Cf'nte-r , Concord Mall, Elkhart 'Siackmonds, Niif!s .­
1'1 fOI'I fOI'I fOil fOI'I fOI'I fOI I fOI I fOI."I fOK I fOt I 
SPECIAL 10% DISCOUNT ON ALL MERCHANDISE TO NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 
HELD OVER WITH LOVE 
in 1500 Theatres Nationwide. 
CHECK NEW SHOWTIMES AT YOUR NEAREST PLITT THEATRE Starting SATURDAY, SEPT. 27 
'Bitt ~llJlgW presenls 
JAMES WHITMORE 
as Harry S. Truman in 
GIVE 'EM HELL, HARRY! 
• ~~IIU'&£A••o •y ORIGI~AL SOUftOTRACII flOW AVAilABl( ...,... ...,., ,_.,.,..,._ .....,.._......,,. Technicolor · ON UNII[O ARIISIS R!COROS AND llPfS 
SHOWING EXCLUSIVELY AT PLITI THEATRES OOWNTOWN MICHAEL TODD 
BERWYN • CORONET • GRANADA MERCURY • OAKBROOK • RIVER OAKS WILL ROGERS • WOODFIELD 
PARAMOUNT. AURORA • CROCKER. ELGIN • ACADEMY. WAUKEGAN HILLCREST. Nr. JOLIET • PARAMOUNT. KANKAKEE·TIMES. ROCKFORil Also Plitt Theatres Downstate and in 
MICHIGAN CITY & SOUTH BEND 
ALL $3 50 Also on Sale For Your Convenience at Chicago lh11tr1 SEATS • 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. and at All Outlying Plitt Theatres 
men and exclusion of pregnant 
women from private disability 
insurance programs. 
The school desegregation is­
sue is before the court again in 
an appeal from a lower court 
order which could lead to bus­
ing of pupils across district 
lines in the Wilmington, Del., 
area. The court has not an­
nounced whether it will hear 
this case. 
The court has the same mem­
bership it has had since De­
cember 1971, when Powell and 
Justice William H. Rehnquist 
were sworn in. Justice William 
0. Douglas, 76, suffered a stroke and missed part of last 
. term, but is expected to be back when the court assembles. 


. ' 


situation."

Sleeping pill helps lepers 0 GENERAL STORE 
FEATURING THE LATEST IN JEANS AND TOPS. 
HOURS: 10-9 MON-SAT 
12-5 SUNDAY 
START THE YEAR RIGHT 
IN A PAIR OF PATCHWORK JEANS 
1621 So Bend Ave. (BEHIND LINEBACKER) 
Phone 233 -6867 

l l I l k 
'I 
~ 
I I I l 
I 
• 
I t • 
! 
Friday, September 26, 1975
12 the observer 

Q. What are the details concerning the upcomi~g dance at the local Armory? . 
A. The Social Cimmission is sponsoring a dance on Fr1da~ Oc~ober 3 from 8:30pm to 1:00am at the South Bend Armory. ~us1c Will be by a Chicago based group named "Horace Monster' . Refresh­ments will be provided in the form of keg beer and 165 lbs. of pretzels. Tickets will be $3.00 per person and may be purchas~~ at the Student Union ttticket office; on October 1, 2, or 3, at the dmmg halls during dinner hour or in the SMC dorm lobbies October 1 or 2 
from 6:30pm to 7:30pm. . Buses are being provided from both ND and SMC and the Soci~l Commission has requested that everyone take adva~tage of this convenience. Persons who drive cars to the dance Will not be ad­mitted. 
Q. Al'l' therl' any bus trips planned for the away football games? 
A. Yes. The Pittsburgh Club and the Junior Class ~re r:ollaborating on a trip to the Pitt--ND game November 15. T~ey re having an organizational meeting this Sunday at 6:30 pm m the LaFortune Amphitheatre. Ticket packages for the game and the bus are being sold and hotel accomodations can be arrange~. Priority will be given members of the Pittsburgh Club and Jumor 
Class. For information call 7743. 

o. 
1 would likt> to subsnibl' to thl' Chicago Tribune. Is therp a rt'Jirt'st•ntalivt> on campus? . 

A. 
You may go ahead and subscribe for there is a representative 


here--Bill Kostoff at either 283-8659 or 232-3205. (). I'd likt• somt• information on the package o£fered by Student t 'nion for l'S(' honwcomong w.et'k1"nd. 
A. The homecoming package includes 2 USC tickets, _2 Beach if.oy eoncert tickets, and 1 1 Bid. Tickets are $35.00 and will go on f ale !l: oo am at Stepan Center. 
Tlw Quickie shuttle service to Michigan will run from 8::~0 p.m. t! ~:UU a.m. th~·. Friday and Saturday. 
Boy recovers front bat bite; 
•
first case lD medical history 
ROCKFORD, Ohio <APl -It after the shot treatment are 1 In Matt's case, intensive care was five years ago that Matt in 30,000, doctors at the disease included a brain biopsy and the Winkler got bit by a bat, control center say. Chances of insertion of a medical in­caught rabies and survived. surviving rabies are supposed strument to measure the pres­
The rabies and all those 
to be zero : there is no cure for sure and drain the fluid when it headlines are just memories the virus-caused disease. reached a critical stage. A tra­lht'..se days for Matt, an 11-year­"I just done a lot of praying, cheotomy also was performed old, perfectly healthy farm boy I guess," says his mother, Ver­to ease the boy's breathing. 
who is learning how to play the na Winkler, 30. "A lot of people "They put a button in my trumpet. 
did." head," Matt says of the brain 
But Matt, an effusive young­Two experts in the rabies biopsy. ster overflowing with charming control section of the disease "They stuck a needle into the exaggerations, holds a special control center, Dr. Michael button and drew the fluid out," place in medical history wheth­Hattwick, a medical doctor, his mother said. 
er he realizes it or not. The and Dr. Gerald Winkler, a vet­In the past 20 years, rabies blond haired boy was the first erinarian, say that "intensive have been on the decrease in 
human ever to survive the supportive" care saved Matt's the United States from nearly dreaded "mad dog" disease, life. Dr. Winkler is no relation 9,000 animal cases and 14 hu­according to medical experts to to Matt. man deaths in 1953 to nearly 4,­
The rabies' virus attacks the 000 animal cases and one hu­the federal Center for Disease 
Control in Atlanta, Ga. nervous system, the heart, the man death in 1973, according to Matt contacted rabies from a lungs, the brain and "you can Winkler. Tentative records for small bat even though he was 
die from any one of a half doz­the U.S. for 1974 show a little given the daily shot treatment 
en different problems," says more than 3,000 animal cases that almost always prevents Hattwick, a consultant in and no human deaths. 
Matt's case. One human death has beenthe disease. 
The chances of getting rabies "There is hyperactivity," recorded in the United States says Hattwick. "You foam at this year. A Mexican girl who the mouth. There is a breathing did not receive the treatment
Calendar action problem and a swelling of the died in Los Angeles. brain." According to Hattwick, an av-A dozen patients afflicted 2rage of 30,000 persons are
begins again 
with rabies have been given the treated each year for rabies, intensive care treatment, with but this does not mean the ani­two surviving. according to mal which bit them was rabid.
(('ontint~ed from page l) 
Hattwick. Matt was the first. In most cases, the animals are
become such a b1g issue," 
Another patient survived in Ar­not apprehended and the treat­Gassman said, "is that the gentina three years ago, says ment must be given as a pre­Academic Council and the students 
Hattwick. cautionary measure.
have never agreed, even before 
they sat down to discuss the r----N--W--Q-P_E_N__A_T____ 



Friday, September 26, 1975 the observer 13 

King Hussein nixes U.S. missiles 
WASHINGTON--Washington went into a tailspin last week when King Hussein of Jordan refused to accept 532 Hawk surface-to-air missiles that the United States urged him to buy. 
Hussein was angry because he said the United States had at­tached conditions to the sale. And Henry Kissinger was worried because Jordan could upset his Missiles for Peace game plan. 
This is what was going on at the State Department during last week's crisis. 
"Mr. Secretary, this cable just arrived from Jordan. Hussein is very upset because someone told him he could only use the Hawk missiles we're selling him for defensive purposes. He said he's never been so insulted in his life." 
"Who  told  him  he  could  only  
have  them  for  defensive  pur­ 
poses?"  

"I don't know, sir. Some damn fool who wasn't clued in on the big picture." 
"Well, fire him. We can't have our State Department people telling foreign leaders when they can shoot our missiles in the air." 
"Yes, sir." 
"This is very serious. Do you realize if King Hussein refuses our missiles, then Israil could refuse them and then Egypt could become suspicious and would not buy any, 
Readings tonight 
Notre Dame's literary ant­hology. Thl' Juggler, is sponsoring the first of a series of student prose and poetry readings at 9:00 tonight at 519 Corby Street. 
All students are invited to attend and read their own work, or the work of their favorite authors. 

Shampooing 
An attractive hairstyle begins 
with a shampoo that is 
especially designed for your 
hair type and texture. Whether 
your hair is normal, coarse, 
baby-fine, oily, bleached or 
tinted· It is important to know 
your type and use the proper 
formula of shampoo. 
Begin with a gentle but t­horough brushing and scalp massage. Two iatherings with a gnetle to vigorous massage, depending on the condition of your hair and scalp. Then rinse, rinse, rinse with warm water, and when your hair feels squeaky clean, rinse again! 
A good shampoo and rinse Is the foundation of any shiny, manageable hairstyle-and that is exactly what the stylists at Vivian's are taught to do. 
Spunsun•d b~ 
~VIVIAN's 
'llc\IB DESI(;N STliDIO 
203 N. MICHIGAN Ph. 232-2194 

followed by Saudi Arabia, Yemen and Abu Dhabi? My whole Middle East peace plan is based on everyone buying American missiles. 
~~ot to mention planes, tanks and spare parts. If we allow Hussein to get away without buying the Hawk missiles, it will upset the military balance in the area. How can we justify selling Israel so many missiles if Hussein doesn't take any?" 
"You'd better get me King Hussein on the phone .... Your Highness, Henry here .... What do you mean he doesn't want to speak to me? ... Tell him I'm sorry he feels insulted and that's what I'm calling about .... Thank you .... Ah, Your Highness, it's good to hear your voice .... Now please, Your Highness, there's been a misunderstanding . . . . That's right, I told you could have the Hawk missiles with no strings at­tached . . . . There aren't any strings attached .... We have this stupid law passed by Congress that 
U.S. weapons can only be sold to countries who need them for defense .... You know hl)w they are. They don't want someor.':! to start a war for no reason at all .... Of course, I know you wouldn't start a war ....Sure I trust you .. . . We trust everyone in that area .. . . Do you think we'd sell weapons to people we didn't trust?" 
''Wait, wait .... Listen to me. All you have to do is promise us vou won't use any of the Hawks offensively or· transfer then to another country .... It's just a formality. Do you think we're going to come into your country and say, 'Hussein, what did you do with the missiles?' 
"Your Highness, have I ever lied to you? Once you buy them they're yours to do with as you like. You can shoot them all off on New Year's Eve for all we care .... I know the Russians have offered to sell you SAM missiles, but they're no match to the Hawk. Our Hawks will give you twice the bang for the buck ... It's in this month's Consumer Reports .... 
"I'll tell vou what. If you take 
IF YOU WANT THE BEST : SPAGHETTI, PIZZA or SANDWICHES, THEN WHY NOT GET IT? 
YOU ~AT: 
GIUSEPPE'S 
713 E. LASALLE so: BEND 
PRIVATE PARTY ROOM CARRY OUTS 233·0951 
P'Gr • truer brkterltandtng ofthe man who left a lasting legacy of·honor and glory to the game of football and the University of Notre Dame. 
the Hawks, we'll throw in $3 million worth of Red Eye sholder­fired rockets and a brand-new $90 million Vulcan antiaircraft gun systen .... No, you don't have to accept any bribes from Lockheed or Northrop .... We'll make this one a straight sale .... 
"l don't want to beg, Your Highness, but your acceptance of a multimillion-dollar arms deal from the United States means a lot to me .... As a friend I'm asking you, please take them .... You'll t­innk it over? Thank you, thank you from the bottom of my heart .... I don't know how I can ever repay you . . . . Goodby." 
"Do you think he'll take them, sir?" 
"He.d better--or we'll never have peace in our time." 

Wells Twombly rs a featured sports columnist for The San Francisco Examiner; winner of many awards for outstanding jou rna Iism; the author of Blanda, and Fireworks and Fury. 
366 pages. 25 photos, available in October $8.95 
''It was never necessary to Identify which coach we 11.ere talkmo about. There was only one Coac:-J and you soelled it with a cap1tal letter. No other man 1n h1s pro­fession co!:IJ~Lcompete. w1th him tn' anv way ... He was The Coach-The Master Coach . Frank Leahv was the greatest man I ever knew. H1s story snould not be permttted to dte... -Billy Sullivan, former president. New England Patriots 
" ... He was damn close to being a sarnt 
-Roger Valdlsierrl, Sporta Information Dlre~or, Unive ... lty of Notre Dame 
Reserve your copy of SHAKE DOWN THE THUNDER! now, at the camous
AT THE
. bookstore. On the second floor at N D Bookstore 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

I I j 
I 
j 


1 4 the observ~e~r~____F_r_id_a....:.y_,_S......:ep'-te_m_b_e_r_2_6,'-1_9_75_ 
Tina Deal school decision 
Previous decision halts integration 
CINCINNATI, Ohio <AP)­vancement of Colored People to control, the decision said. . case to be partially reopened. turning the Deal decision while 

Both sides claimed partial vic­attack it. However, the NAACP, m a NAACP attorney Leonard saying they upheld the case. tory in the latest assault on the The 1966 Deal decision, by new .mit: demanded ~he right to Slutz said the decision "give.~ Weick charged that the courts Tina Deal school decision, the the same circuit court, held retry evidence used m the Deal us most of what we wanted, previously delved deeply into 1966 landmark case protecting that the Cincinnati Board of case prior to 1961 to prove the but conceded "there was no the case and court rules should .Northern city school districts Education was not responsible school board has used attend-clearcut victory on either preclude allowing the decision from massive integration plans. for racial imbalances occuring ance lines to segregate schools. side." to be reargued at further cost. 
The 6th U.S. Circuit Court of within its neighborhood school The. case was made more The board of education called to the taxpayers of the Cincin-Appeals Wednesday reaffirmed system. The imbalances were complicated when the three ap-it a "major victory" because nati School District. the principles of the case, but caused by changing housing pellate court judges issued the appellate court held the Weick said black children are 
nodified the access of the Na­patterns within the city over separate opinions with two of Deal decision still "a vital" only entitled to attend white ' onal Association for ·the Ad-which the school board had no them concurring to allow the part of the law, said attorney schools where state law had John Lloyd. prevented them from doing so.
For psychiatric exam Judge Pierce Lively said Dis-He said Ohio abolished segrega­trict Court Judge David S. Por-tion in education in 1887. ter ruled correctly that the cision was still law but
Glatt .murderer transferred 
fied the ruling by allowing ground to be recovered "background purposes."

DAYTON, Ohio <AP) Neal ders and three attempted mur­Long was arrested moments Chief Judge Harry PhillipsBradley Long, the 48-year-old ders. A total of six persons after Glatt was shot to death. concurred saying he believed service station attendant have been shot to death and 
Glatt, 47, an Ohio State Univer­the NAACP should have acharged with murdering deseg­)OUt a dozen have been sity professor, was designing range to present evidence. 
regation planner Dr. Charles A. wounded by a sniper since 1972. an integration plan for Dayton Judge Paul Weick accused Glatt, will be transferred to a Falke said he will go back to 
schools. his fellow judges of 

federal medical facility in the grand jury with the other •••••••••• • ... . . . . . . 
Springfield, Mo., for psychiatric cases after the police depart­evaluation. ment completes its investiga­tions. HOUSE SPECIALTY
:th•
U.S. District Judge Carl A. 

In an affidavit for a searchWeinman Wednesday ordered warrant, police said Long ad­· .~Vhi§tle PRIME RIB
that Long undergo 90 days of 

mitted to shooting between 25 • Double Ca 
vbservation to determine his and 30 persons in the black 

competency to stand trial and · : I top wEo. , tHuR.• srEclll
areas of Dayton.
his sanity the of

at time the The prosecutor said his office 
murder. : SOI/TH ;,END, INOIA~A tURf &SURf
and the police "feel we have a The judge's action came strong case" against Long. He 
• TERRIFIC COCKTAIL • filet $ 695

shortly after a federal grand disputed a statement by Long's 
• 11 A.M. to 2 A.M. b t

jury indicted Long on a charge brother, who said the defendant of murder on a federal reserva­would admit to anything when 
• 5 luncheon I terns lr"i•itl~o:s~e~r~;:;~~=] 
STUDENT

tion in connection with the slay­he was being interviewed by ing of Glatt Friday in his office the police. • Ch d D ·1 1 FRI. & SA REPS WANTED 

ange 
Ol y 
''ALL YouT. SPECIAL 
EARN BIG COMMISSIONS

in the federal building here. "That's simply not what hap­
• 
SELLING STEREO EQUIPMENT,

Meanwhile, Montgomery pened. We would not build a 
TV'S ETC. AT BIG DISCOUNTS
fROG LE CAN EAT'' 
ON YOUR CAMPUS. WRITE FOR MORE INFORMATION!

County Prosecutor Lee C. case on something like that," • 
Falke planned to present a Falke said. · • Ill s 
~:.~:. 8\ 
SEND CHECk 011 MONEY OIIDEII PLUS 11.00 HANDLING DIRECTLY TO: 

county grand jury with evi­U.S. Atty. Robert S. Stein­
dence which allegedly ties Long berg said Wednesday the FBI's 
: •·f; i 
STUDENT DISCOUNT CORP.

to a series of hit-and-run shoot­investigation of the Glatt mur­
ings of blacks in Dayton during der "has been completed now" • 602 So. Walnut (Fornterly lrvins)the past four years. and "on the information avail­
.. .. . . . ..• • • • • •

Falke said today's presenta­able to us now, he acted tion would deal with three mur-
J 
I 
~ 
' l t 


m· rn-J, MPT•mDer 26, 1975 fhe observer 
15 

Austin Carr attempting comeback 
11~ :\liKE IIAHius There was no welcommg roar cral manager Bill Fitch at the sonwwhat laughable aggrega­
has got to help us a lot," he 

.\1' Sports \\'ritt>r· from the crowd and the Cleve-Cleveland Coliseum Thursday lion of castoffs and draft 
said 


('Lf<:vi<:LAND <APl -Austi1 land Cavaliers' star had to re­
('arr whirled across the floor trieve his own basketball, but 
stoppPd suddenIy and Icape• there W'·rr~ a pleased sm1'le on 
hit-:h into the air. £iring a high his face. 
arcing jumper that floated into Carr was just one of 17 play­
lht• rwt 25 feet away. t'rs reporting to coach and gen-
Nuggets, Nets hit blocks in attempt to jump to NBA 
NEW YOHK IAPJ The Denver Nuggets and New York Nets, claiming they cannot go on losing money, confirmed Thursday they want to bolt to the National Basketball Associ­ation. They immediately ran into roadblocks set up by a fed­eral judge and their current league. 
Attorneys for the two Ameri­can Basketball Association clubs and the NBA appeared Thursday morning before U.S. District Court Judge Robert L. Carter in New York to tell him the teams had applied for ad­mission in the NBA for the 1976-77 season. Carter told them they couldn't do it without his approval and the approval of the NRA players' union. 
"We don't understand what they're doing," said Larry Flei­sher, counsel to the NBA Play­ers' Association, who was quick to point out that neither his un­ion nor Judge Carter have ap­proved anything. 
Announcements, rumors and threats of suit came from countless places Thursday as the AHA's two most attractive franchises went ahead with their intentions to bolt their league in a move that could se­riously injure the ABA 's chances of continuing in busi­ness 
Sources high in-both leagues 

told conflicting stories: 
-That the Nets and Nuggets, 

convinced a merger was impos­
sible. had decided to fight the 
suits that will come and try to 
join the NBA. They have the 
support of NBA Commissioner 
Larry O'Brien in doing so. 
-That the maneuvering is a 

ploy to open merger dis­
cussions. O'Brien and ABA 
President John Y, Brown, long­
time friends from politics, have 
met and discussed merger pos­
sibilities in recent months. 
High ABA sources said if the Nets and Nuggets were going it alone and were successful, the two clubs and their players would face a battery of suits charging violation of anti-trust laws, breach of contract and violation of the league's con­stitution and by-laws. 
Regardless. O'Brien, Nets owner Roy Boe and Denver president Carl Scheer issued separate but similarly and cau­tiously worded statements Thursday. Each stattment said the two clubs had applied to the NBA. Scheer and Boe said they were losing money, couldn't continue that and that the only solution was the NBA and its television contract. 
ABA Commissioner Dave De­Busschere, who reacted with anger to the announcement, said he knew nothing of the months-long dealings until Wednesday when Boe and Scheer dropped in to see him. Negotiations between Boe, Scheer and O'Brien have been going on for more than a month Boe said months-and Brown has been aware of the talks. 
DeRusschere said the clubs could not leave the ABA with­
•ut "first assigning all basket­l•all·related property Iplayers l to the league." If the ABA were successful in arguing thao case in court, it is obvious the NBA would not be interested in two teams without players. 
On a day when almost every pro basketball official and source had something to say, the only clear thing was that things are unclear. 
The biggest roadblocks to any successful completion of Thurs­day's announcement-if a suc­cessful completion is what the parties want-are Judge Carter and the players' union. The un­ion filed suit five years ago to block any merger. 
ND women's field hockey team beaten by Goshen 
by Eileen O'Grady 

Notre Dame's Women's Field Hockey Team suffered its first lost 
SMC tennis team defeats Valpo 
Hy Jasmine Malvezzi 

Barb Timm, Louise Purcell, Lynn Griffin, and the doubles team of Kelee Brogger-Jean Barton lead the Saint Mary's Tennis Team to a 7-2 victory over Valpariso, September 18. 
Following the Valpariso match, the girls competed against Goshen College on September 23 and added another win to theor record with the dominating score of 8·1. 
According to Coach Mark Peterson, the team is looking forward to the State Tournament at Indiana University, Friday and Saturday, September 26 and 'l:l. Coach Peterson added that, "We placed fourth in the Tournament last year, behind Valpariso, the number three team." "We hope to defeat them this year, and move into that number three position." 
yesterday, 1-0, in an away match 
against Goshin College. 
The one goal scored against 
them "was a real cheap goal," 
according lo co-captain Donna 
Losurdo. "It was right in front of 
the goal. The ball was just dumped 
in. It wasn't any sort of spec­
tacular slap shot," she said. 
"The major problem was that we weren't able to coordinate our offense," Losurdo continued. "Defensively we played an ex­cellent game. We were able to consistently ward off Goshin 's attacks. Once again goalie Mary Huns played a great game," she said. 
Coach Astrid Hotvedt was not discouraged by the defeat. "The penetrating cold did not freeze our great defense. We still need to fire up on our offense and by Tuesday, at our game against Olivet, I'm expecting at least three goals," she said. 
The team hopes for more response to their home games. Jointly they add: "Coming from such a jock school we hope some atheletic supporters come out for Tuesday's game." That game, scheduled against Olivet College, will be played at 6:30p.m. here on the astroturf. 
for the opening of preseason training. 
1ft• was. however, the object of more than a little close scru­tiny by everyone. 
Till' li-foot-4 guard is entering his fourth season in the Nation­al Basketball Association as a qtwst ion mark. a man scarred hy Iwo bouts of knee surgery sinct• being in.jured J)pc. !i. 1!174. 
"I ft>l'l about H5 or ~lO per eent t>ffpt'l ive right now. but I have to gl't liSl'd to playing on the knl'l' again," Carr explained. "'J'\'l' hl'en running straight ahPad and I have to get used to cutting again. 
"Btit it -feels good to have two lt>gs again,'' he added with a \\'idl' grin. 
Till' forml'r Notre Dame All­Amt>rican has been around sinee the Cavaliers were a choices slapped together in a National Basketball Association t•xpansion. 
"I'm very fortunate and hap-PY to be part of a team gro:w­ing up from scratch,'' he sard. .. It gives nw a feeling of ac­t·omplishnwnt. 
"En•rybody is a year older and Butch l Beard. picked up in a rradp l should be a great help this Sl'ason,'' Carr noted. "This 
is  a  hit  like  college  again.  
\\'t>'l't'  competitive."  
Tht•  maturing  Cavaliers  

m isst•d the NBA playoffs by orw game last season as they poslt>d a 40-42 mark and fin­ished behind Washington and Houston in the Central Division. 
"Wt>'re now competitive both nwntally and physical and that mt>nlal readiness is very impor­tant in an 82-game season. Fighting for and getting that dose to the playoffs last year Asked if he feels the Cavs 
could go all the way this sea­
son. Carr took some time to 
choose just the right words. 
"I think we could do it," he 
said. "But I think we really 
ut'ed one more year to get the 
fpc) of that playoff 'eompetition 
and pressure." 
('an dot•sn 't expect to take it too t>asy in !ruining camp un lt•ss his knee fails to respond. 
"It all depl'nds on how I feel 
;rftl'r thl' first dav or two '' lwlhl'r I play it siow or full tilt right away," he said. "Hight now I feel very good and I don·~ foresee any real problems." 
Wrth that. he scooped up a loose basket ball, dribbled a rouple of steps away and softly nl'lted another jumper. His smile practically lit up the <'avs' practice court as he hur­ril'cl to retrieve the ball. 
CLASSIFIED RDS 
WANTED 
·' ··d 3 liCk!'! s tor M1chigan Stalf' ... ""' 9 Call M1kl' afl<'r 6 pm.9 288­
11tl~'i 
N••·d .1 GA li X lor NorlhWI'SIPrn. 14 (,f\ tix for SouthPrn C(11.9 Namt1 
your pric1• 9 Mnry 272 4733 
SMC Coffi'Phous•• nt'l'dS all lypt'S of lrliPnt 9 It you can pf1rform' bP a ~ound II'Chn•cinn or l1kl' Jo hoslt'SS; "'''nSI' (,lll J•·<mil' H86 or Tom 8736 
N•••d 7 nr 3 GA I ickE'IS to MSU.9 Call M,Jrk 1475 
D•-sp•·ral<'ly ni'Pd rid<' ro Cincinnati, Ohio !hiS Wl'l'kl'nd.9 PIPaS£' call D•·bbi<' 272 8782 
N"•d .1 GA Jix tor Gmrqia Tt>ch 11<1111<" 9 c<lll 5740 
No·pd G A lickPIS for Nor fi1W<'Stt'rn.9 Call Bill 8686 
N<'l'd /GA N i'NY fix. Ci'IJJ KPvin 8720 
N•·••d 3 lickP!Sior MSU qam<'. Call M1kl' ,1fll•r 6 pm. 288 0088 
St•x 1S nict', but I dPSpPrafl'ly need 1 MSU lickt•t ,. vt'n mon•. Danny 8102 
No·pd ? GA I i>< lo Michigan.. Call '361 
D·sp••rah-Jy m•t•d 3 GA or Sludml lick<'IS tor Michigan Stat!'. Call NIMY K,ly 6804 
N•·"d 2 fix any homP gamt'. Mary Louist• 7308 
DESPERATELY NEEDUSC lick<'YS. Will pay W<'ll. Call 7937, 
ph'OSP 
N•·Pd<'d 1 s tudt>nl or GA ticket to 'ill' USC <tnm ''· Plt'aSP call Ellt>n at 
.n 079~ 
NPI'd 7 GA Northwt'slt'rn tickets. C.111 P.1u1 J018 
No•pd 3 NW and 3 MSU tickpts. Call AI ict• ~494 
W,lnll'd lhrl'l' MSU Jickf'IS. PIPaSf' < i1IIM,1rk 256 1206 
C<>od "'"'"'Y paid tor any homl' flckPIS c.111 John 1816 
I C·A. tickPts tor NorlhwPslt'rn lli'I'QI'd. C.1JJ 288 3073 
N•·••d -1 USC and 5 Navy lickt'ts. Will pay w••ll P k•ast' call 5168. 
Nl'l'd .\ MSU and USC lickt'IS. Call 
3648 
N•·pd 4 Chic aqo tickE'ts. Call 3537 and ask lor M.alt 
DPSpt'ralt'l y llPf'd GA tix to Michigan St aIt'. As maw as 6. Ca II Slt'Vl' al8624. Will pay$$ 
N1•t'd 2 Navy GA tix. Will pay Call Jim 272 6792 
Wnnlt>d 2 GA tix for MSU caSh or tradf.' studf'nt tix for other gamf.'S. 289 4350 
IN••t·d 1 ticket for USC and Navy. C.lll Jpff 1075.9 
~ --------Nl'eded: 4 Tickets to Pittsburgh gam!.'. Call 4300 
NPPd USC lix. Call lli'tJrph 287-0742 
Wantl'd · 1M ichigan Stat<' tick!.'! and 3South<-rn C allickPIS. Call Dan 1219 
Will pay C noll• for 4 GA tix to M SU 272 6290 
D•·spPratPI y nPt'd 2 GA lickl-ts for MSU W11J pay GOOD prict'. Call Ron ill 3543 
Ortwrs spt•ak of St'x and <!Path. A II I lll'l'd drt' 2S oulhl'rn (aJtiCkl'ls. ll'n M<lry at 6680 
No•pd 7 or 4 GA Michigan Statt' tlx 
IO<ll'lhl'r Ch p 1026 
No·pd liM> GA lickf'tslo MSU Qamt'. 
Gary 1ID2 
J 'IUdl'nls looking tor 41h roo malPat 
C.1mp us IM•w. 272 2701 
Pil',lS<' Two lix for lht' NW qam<'. -C.11J 772 2701 
N•-,.d 2 Michigan Slat!' tick£'15 for a toll lli'Xi ypar Plt>as!' call Mikl' 1438. 
HELP WANTED. Part limP help wnntPd, Pveninqs c:lnd WPf'kends. Houri y w,lqPs. Apply in pPrson at .Julio's, 9131.. Lincolnway W!'SI. 
No'l'd 2 Michigan Statp tix. Call 1630 
Pauppr lli'PdS 2 GA tix USC 
CharifabiP (rt>ally!) call 1216 
LOST AND FOUND 
l ost Gold Bulova Caravelle watch wlih lootball inscribf'd on tht' face, in fill' South Dining Hall. If found call John 1169 
FOR SALE 
for sail' MacramP i<'Wt>lry brace!PIS ,,nd nPcklac<'s, plant hangf'rs. Also crochl'l<'d scarvt>s. Call barb 233· 
]876 
I S••nior st>ason ricket. 
Call 3149 
SonySinch TV$100 HP 45calculator. cloPS sli'lndard dt•viafion. great for psych, sratistics, physics courses. S225 or bt'SI oftt'r Writ<' 203 Fisher phonl' 1945 
lOillpi'ICt S!t'rl'O SpPi'lkl'rS. head .,t,onPs $50. Call 7875 
ACS lab nprons on saJP in 126 Nii'Wii'lnd nnd trPshmnn Jabs only $3 
1971 I riumph T R6. SIPPI bt'llf'd. Radia I 1 in•s. Cnll 272 2844 aftf'r 5pm For SaJP: 1.) Slurdy bar 54 mchl'S with 3 bar stools 
standard llt'ight $60.900 2.) Folding bPds W<lh 6 inch mattresst's. $10.00 ··ach 3.) Woodt>n tramp tor couch lll'l'dS IOi'll"ll CUShions $5.00. Call 288 
5793 
STEREO EQUIPMENT major brands i'll substansial savings; all laclory SPaiPd undt'r manufac 
lurt'r's  Wi'lrranty.  ELLIOTT  EN  
TERPRISES pml  233 3769  (afft>r  3:30  
NOTICES­ --­ 

FREE darling kittf'n• Jo.-a good homP. 6 wks old. Call 233 8579 after 5prn. 
Accuratt', fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232 07 46 
~-----Typing: Ex­pPriPnct'd in St>nior Essays, d issrrtations PIC. R PasonabJE', .KcuraiP 232-57!5 
Quick Loans! Morrissey Loan Fund. 
Up to -s I so. 30 days 1 percent in­terest. Basement of LaF11rtune. M­F 11:15-12:15. 
Bio Club T Shirts arriving within tht' W<'l'k. Ordf'rs now bf'ing taken 107 Galvin. Mon. Thurs. 2:00 4:30 until Oct.. , 2. Only S2.80 
Woht•vt•r stol<' Quickif' Drivt'r's hat. pJPaSP rl'turn badgt'. St•ntimt'nlal valut• RPturn ro Studt>nl GovPrn­IIH'nf offitt". 
RikP r Ppairs and new and used parts S•mPI<'X DPr $5 and Suntour Dt'r. Alloy tor $7.50, Eric TwPl'dE'II 3634 
SludPnls •·arn whil<' you IParn, part linw contact work afford <'XIra in <onw For nppoinlm<'nl 684 4396 
Will do ryping <'XpPri£'nC£'d in lllrlnuscripls thPmPS, fPrm papers. C.lll 233 8512 
Typinq 35 cPnls a pagf'. Call Dan 772 5549 
SophomorP Lilt'rary FPslival IIH'I'Iinq Monday 9 pm LaFortunE' IJ,,IIroom 
rr"" GPrbils. D!'livPry and food ~upply Ci111 Frank 234 6535 
FOR RENT 
srudPnts tor faculty, 5 rooms. fur nishPd, privati', utililit's furnished. SPcurity dPposit. Nt•ar Campus. 1002 CampPau Sf. Call 234-7925 
Grad srudPnt Oaw) dE'sirE's salt', quit•! housing m•ar campus wi olht•rs. Call Doug 6 8:00 pm 234­2284 R PtPrt'flct•s 
PERSONALS 
Liz-Te deseo un feliz cumpleanos con mucha fe1icidad y mucho trago! Your Spic Friend 
To wllom it mi'ly concPrn Tl1i'lnks tor starting to bPautify thf' South Qui'ld . 
Whnl would lht> world do of Dt>bbif' Vo<'llkt• brokl' Ju•r baby tingt'rs??? 
Dt·ar Roomil'S, 
L ''" •s hard, I know. w.liChing S•-rpico And lfwl 'TPa Room Tradt•' 1S hell <1 l:lul lrn' sick of tht' m!'SS You can ·cl<'an up yoursl'IIS And say byt• ro your old mi'lid. Cllill•lla 
TOllllllY W•·lconll' hom!'. It hasn't bt'l'n lhE' sam•· Without you 
DI'Spl'ralt•ly nt'l'dt'd (or rnorf.') <IOOd stilt tor wt•Pk<'nd 7812 
_ lilt' Hungry Bus LPaVf.'S Daily from Room 422 Gracl'. All aboard. 
Dan, Your SOS has bt'en rE'ceived and ilnSW<'rt'd Rl'lribufionwill bE' bodily ••xtractt'd. Mighty Mick 
Has anyone lookE'd at Peggy O'RourkE''S IE'fl hand yf't? Congratulations Pt"ggiE' and Eddie! 
To out bf'lovE'd Ghandi­
Wt• promiS£' to bf' quiet during your nwditations. Joyt'ux An­nivf.'rsaire! Wt• lovf.' yal! 
Gumby. Lollipop and PPachPs 
N<•t>d 2 USU tickt'IS. Call Davt' 1741 
... 


.. 
Friday, September 26, 1975
16 the observer

.. 
by Bill Brink Sports Editor 
There are two new looks to to morrow's contest between Notre Dame and Northwestern in Notre Dame Stadium. 
The first is Irish head coach Dan Devine, who is making his debut in front of his home fans. The second is the Wildcat's record, which, surprisingly, has a 0 in the loss column. Notre Dame usually doesn't meet an undefeated North­western team unless it's the season 
opener. 
However, John Pont's Wildcat's are unbeaten, and it doesn't look like a flu~e. They opened with an impressive 31-25 victory over Purdue, and last week downed Northern Illinois 10-3. The last t­ime NU won its firsttw<>games was 
in 1964. ­
As for the Irish, they are just glad to be home. After opening up with two grueling games on the road, in the space of just six days, even the dreary South Bend weat­
her is welcome. 

.. 
"I guess you could say that we're all pretty excited," said Devine. "It's the first time before our home fans. Opening up the season with t­wo games on the road is t­remendously difficult. It's just great to be back home. We're really glad to be on a normal practice session, I think the players need it very badly. I couldn't be more proud of this t-earn for the way it handled such a demanding schedule." Normally the Wildcats would figure to be a lot less demanding. The Irish have won nine in a row against them, and Northwestern hasn't won at Notre Dame since 
Ara Parseghian led them to a ~2-10 victory in 1961. If that Isn't enough, the Wildcats haven't scored a touchdown against ND in the last three years. And as long as you're stackiJ\g the odds, mention this year's Irish defense, which has given up just three points in two games. "Notre Dame did an excellent job against Purdue," said NU coach John Pont, "especially for having only two days to prepare 
for the game. They are subst­antially stronger, with the return of Browner, Bradley, Hunter and 
Fry, and have a superb defense. 
Nevertheless, Pont thinks he has the right weapon to use against the Irish, mainly a powerful offensive backfield. The Wildcats have amassed a total of 644 offensive yards so far, 456 of them on the ground. In fact, Northwestern has been so successful rushing that t­hey've passed only 18 times, completing 11 for 188 yards. 
The leader of the backfield is 
quarterback Randy Dean, a junior
who is also the Wildcate punter. THE led by Ross Browners 21 tackles, will again be heavily relied upon against Nor-
Dean has averaged 11.1 yards per thwestern tom morrow afternoon. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
passt this year, and can scramble Greg Boykin is a dangerous 422.9 yards and 34.6 points per ~oss Browne~ share ~e team lead 
well. But the biggest offensive runner a threat every time he gets game last year and suffer from m tackles with 21 apiece. 
threat the Wildcats have is half-the b~ll. He has tremendous injuries and inexperience. Safety For Devine, it will be his third back Greg Boykin. After missing balance, size and speed and he Steve Sc,ardina will miss t-conte~t with ~orth-:vE>stern. While last season with a broken fibula, the could play for any team in the o:morrow s game because of a spr coachmg .a~ Missouri he dropped a versatile senior has come back to country." ained knee, and linebacker Greg 23-12 deciSion to the Wildcats in 


Bill Brink =:=:=:=:=:=:::=:::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:::=:=::::::::::::~:::~::::::::::::::::::::=:::=:=:::::::::=:=:::::::::::::=:=:=:::::::::=:::::=:::=========:=:::::======================::::============::=:=====:====================· 
The .Irl·sh Eye 
Football picks

..:·:.:·:.:.;.:.:. :. :·:.:.:.:·:·:·:.:.:.:;:-:~: ::.:.:-:·:.:.:.:::;:;;::;:.;:;::::;;.;:::;:;::;::::;:::::;::; :; ;::; :; :;:.:;:::.:::;:.:.:::;:; :; :;:; :; :; :; :;:::;:::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;:;:;:::::::;:::: 
net yards in his first two Scott Yelvington has been
251 
games, averaging 5.5 yards per switched from tight end to flanker carry. Jim Pooler will also see and has five receptions for 84 yards actionathalfbackandRichBoothe thisseason. Poolerhasalsohauled will be at fullback. in five for 97 yards. The Wildcat 
"We've been impressed with the line is the weakest part of the of-versatility of Randy Dean, Greg fense, with only one starter Boykin and Jim Pooler," said r•.·turning from last year. Devine. "Randy Dean can give ~orthwestern's defense is you a lot of trouble, he scrambled S< .newhat less impressive. The exceptionally well against Purude. \Hdcats give up an average of 

Well. the season is two weeks old and things just don't seem to be as they should be. 
For one thing. Northwestern (2-0l is at the top of the Big Ten, co-leader with Ohio St. For another, Auburn still hasn't won a game yet; and lastly, Oklahoma failed to score 50 points last week <Barry Switzer must have given hell to his players all week). 
Meanwhile, the new kids on the block appear to be l'CLA and Missouri. who both pushed their way into the top ten this past weekend. Penn St. got pushed out, due to a 17-9 loss to the Buckeyes, and Michigan
.. 
was pushed to the limit. Their surprising 19-19 tie with a tough Stanford team dropped them back to ninth in the polls. 
Even after it's shocking opening loss to Memphis St., everyone still thought Auburn had an excellent team. Last week's tie with Baylor is creating doubt in t-ven its staunchest supporters. Where are the Tigers that were going to go undefeated, beat Alabama and sent Shug Jordan out on a joyous note? 
Texas A&M looks strong, having drubbed LSU last week and West Virginia is undefeated and raanked in I he top twenty. And USC is still looking for an op­ponent. 
Here are the Irish Eye's picks for this weekend. :\urthwt>stem at Notre Dame: A battle of two un­defeated powerhouses? Well, maybe only one powergouse (iJome will ask which one) but both are undefeated. The wildcats will lose their unbeaten status and Big Ten lead this week, because their strong point is their offensive backfield, and it has to run into the Irish's stronger point, their mammoth defense. NO is back on a once-a-week schedule, and despite this week's Sports Illustrated cover, they should win by 21. l TL\ at ,\ir Force: The Bruins proved just how good they are by beating Tennessee. Air Force will just be a warm-up for their game next week against Ohio St. UCLA by 14. Oklahoma at Miami (Fla.): The Sooners drive their wagon south, kind of like Sherman's march to the sea, to leave their devastating mark on those who maybe don't realize just what's been going on out in Norman the last two weeks. As the Sooner's past record shows, anything could be going on, but on the football field. they've been busy killing their opponents. Miami may give them a closer game, but not by rnueh. Sooners by 35. Illinois at Texas A&M: Illinois could have beaten Missouri last week, but they can't beat the Aggies tomorrow. Texas A&M killed LSU, and is just too good for the Illini. Especially in Texas. Aggies by 17. Alabama at Vanderbilt: Steve Sloan went to Texas Tech and left new Commodore coach Fred Pancoast 10 defensive starters returning and a giant search for a quarterback. Whether they found him or not, it won't matter, because the Crimson Tide is full gear 
.... 
and should take it to Vandy good. Alabama by 20. Roston College at West Virginia: The Eagles would 
be !he pre-season favontes in this game, but the 
l\1ountaineers are looking good. It'll be one of the 
wt-ekend's elosest games with West Virginia on top by 
(i. 
:'liar~ land at Kt•ntuck~·: The Terrapins are shaky and Kentucky is nobody's choice. But the Wildcats are the choice tomorrow. By 6. ·''u·th Carolina at Ohio St.: The Buckeyes are taking a break in between Penn St. and UCLA. If this were basketball. maybe. But unfortunately for the Tar­llt-els it isn't. OSU by 17. Tt•xas ('h.-istian at Nebraska: Assassinations seem lo be popular lately, so why not throw in this killing to~ The horned Frogs won't escape though. Cor­nhuskers by 30. Tt•xas Tt'l'h ill Tt>xas: The Longhorns will be looking lo avenge last year's 26-3 embarrassment and Tech may not be able to stop them. Texas by 12. .\uh11111 at Tennesst>e: Any game with one of these teams involved is hard to predict because the teams are so baffling. A game with both of them? Well good luck. Kreskin. Are the Tigers really any better than I heir 0-1-1 record and can't Tennessee really be one of Ihe nation's best teams? We'II find out tomorrow, but make it Auburn by 3. l 'tah at Indiana: Talk about a nothing game! The Hoosiers had to go all the way to Utah to find someone lo whip. Maybe they figure that Utah's players are Mormons and are all pacifist. Both are trying to improve on last year's 1-10 records and they deserve Pach other. IU by 7. Ba~·Jor at \\lichigan: A possible upset, but after last week's tie against Stanford, Wolverine coach Bo Sehembechler has probably set an ultimatum; beat Baylor or else no more Woody Hayes tackling dummys. Baylor is good, but Michigan will win. By 10. Purdue at l 1S(': Nice upset possibility, but face it, the Boilermakers just don't have it. And the Trojans do. This is their third straight home game, although no one's sure yet if they've had a visitor. Purdue, at least. isn't non-descript, but they are just as weak. Trojans by 20. \\'ist·onsin at Missouri: Another upset possibility, but after last year's humiliating 59-20 loss to the Badgers, Missouri will want it too badly. Besides, people are beginning to realize that the Badgers just don't have what everyone thought they did. Tigers by 10. 
Upset of the Week.: North Carolina St. over Michigan St. The Spartans haven't lived up to their pre-season billing, and this is the home segment of their schedule. Next week they come to South Bend to face the Irish, but this week they'll have trouble with a tough Wolfpack team, one that held high-scoring Florida to 7 points last week. If Denny Stoltz can't get his Spartans on track, the Wolfpack may devour them. Or at least win, by 7. 
St.anley is .listed as questionable 1963 but captured a 13-6 victory in with a stramed ankle. 1967. 
Coming off ir.Jjuries last year, "I think it's going to be a great however, are m1ddlt:. guard Maly homegame,"hesaid. "Forme,of and weak safety Pete Shaw. course, it's very exciting because Tackles John '.'f?oc" Holiday ~nd I've never t-xperienced the great Ma.rty S~ostak )om !daly on the Jme spirit and enthusiasm of the Notre ~h1le Jrm Hutchms returns at Dame student body. I've felt it of nght cornerback. c.ourse, but I.'ll be experiencing it 
(~uarterback Dean has averaged firsthand for Ihe first time. 
44.1 yards per punt so far for NU, Game time is at 1:30 EST. ~r:c~~~\~~i~!tkopulos handles the Student B-ball 
The Irish, meanwhile, will be f • f J relying on their proven defense to lX 0 go on sa e stop the Wildcats' attack while .£ d 1 
their own offense tries to eliminate lor one ay on y the little errors that have plagued Student basketballl ti.ckets will them so far. go on sale on Tuesday, October 7th "I said before the season that we for all students who did not order a would have to depend on our ticket last spring or summer. The defense for the. first few weeks to sale will last one day only. keep us in the games until we Tickets will be sold to all developed cohesion and offense," married, Law. graduate and un­said Devine. "We're still making dergraduate students who wish to little errors that have frustrated purchase them. Only $21 bleacher some good drives. We need a little seats are still available. St. more offensive discipline to Mary's students may also order eliminate missed assignments, tickets on that date at a $25 price. fumbles and penalties. We need The tickets will go on sale from 9 better timing and a little bit better a.m. to 5 p.m. at the ticket window skill in catching tlte ball and st-on the second floor of the ACC. aying in .bounds." Students purchasing a ticket then Devine wiil be relying on the will be issued a receipt which can running of fullback Jim BrQwner, be t-xchanged for the ticket on a who has accumulated 168 yards in date to be announced later. two games. Mark McLane has An extra home game has been added 108 yards and AI Hunter 98. added on February 9th against St. Quarterback Rick Slager is 11 of 23 Bonaventure. This game is in­for the season for 125 yards. eluded in the price of the ticket at Defensively, Doug Becker and no extra charge. 

Irish coach Dan Devine, after surviving some tense moments on the road, will make his debut at home tommorrow. 








