Columns. Cartoons ... Pages &&7 
unrversity of notre dome st. mary's college 
Thursday June 19, 1975 


The debut of the summer Observer met with setbacks last Thursday. It was confiscated by Ad­ministration officials, who were upset with its content, and the effect it may have had on visiting Alumni. Story on page three. 
IUSB Section ... Pages 8&9 Shakespeare Films Page 10 
The Subway Alumni: An Extension of the Notre Dame Family orThe Big Rip-Off ?A special report on page ten tells how the organization was 

nded to give recognition to 

E 
he many people who support University, though they 1975.JIIS u 8 wAy went to school here. 
~ umnus
hough it can be difficult for students to believe, there 
( U T APAP T-----=-.::. --:.:_ = 
people out there who want 
become a part of Notre 1 
Please accept 
How are they treated? 
this free colorful 
t do they want from us? ead the complete story in­
decal as the 
first sign of your 

AI
becoming a proud Notre Dame S U BW.AY 

umnus 


On behalf of the faculty, AdnUnistrati 
OJi and Staff, I extend a warm greeting :to 
those of you who have enrolled in the 19'75 
Summer Session. The variety of co~. 
workshops and institutes, and the variati.­
in their length have been selected to m.,et 
the needs and schedule of many kinds of 
students -those continuing from the 
academic year, both graduate and un­
dergraduate, those engaged in summer 
graduate programs, those interested in 
updating their knowledge and professional 
skills, as well as those studying for the sheer 
joy of learning. We in the Summer Session 
trust that you will find what we try to 
deliver: escellence of teaching and 
research in that atmosphere of friendliness 
and concern which makes the Notre 
Dame experience very special indeed. 
Though the pace of the Summer Session is 
fast, classes are smaller and the contact 
between professor and student easier. 
Facilities are less crowded and thus more conducive to study and research. A lighter course load offers the opportunity for fuller concentration and reflection. You are in­1 vited to visit the many departments in which research is being conducted, talk with the faculty, and browse throught the Universitylibraries which contain so many excellent collections. The faculty and staff will welcome your requests for information 
and assistance. 
The opportunities of classroom, laboratory and livrary together with the wide variety of free entertainment through lectures, films and concerts, should provide a summer experience that is botb educationally rewarding and socially en­joyable. I hope to have the opportunity to meet many of you personally. 

(Rev.) Robert J. Aultl(o, C.S.C, Director of the Saanaer 8eullll 


Thursday , June 19, 1975
the observer 

·feral<• Car Parts Ca. 
Parts & accassoriei for hnported ca for all makes at lowes_t prlc;es.
...lonal 
IMetributor 
~·~*-***************'* 
-·: For all Students, Faculty & Staff, a 10 ~~*percent discount with ID and purchase of * at'! $10 or more 1t 
t........*lc. *************•· 
215 Dixie Way N Roseland' So. Benq 

I~--------------------------1
••••• ••••••••••••••••••• I
I • • 
1 :· R:ovAL • I



I : I
AjMERICAN ~ SHOWMEN 
I 
• THIS SUNDAy' JUNE 22, NO I e COVER CHARGE WITH. I

! 
e THIS AD.

I 
i I SBUUS i 
L ~
l On U.S. 31 between !s~!!h !~!~rking-Ph. 683·4350 
CONTINUOUS ENTERTAINMENT FROM .9 P.M. TILL 2 A.M. I 

' --------------~-----1
MEN-WOMEN 
Some of the best educations include 
'·' 
2 years of Army. 
Let's face it. Not everyone wants to step right into college after high school. 
Maybe you'd rather wait a few years. To travel, to learn a skill, to find out what you can do, to mature. For you, today's Army can be a meaningful alter­
native to college. 
We offer challenge. Physical and mental. We offer over 200 job·training courses to try out for. We offer a choice of location. Stateside or abroad. 
If you decide to start college while you're in, we'll pay up to 75% o~ your tuition, · 
Call 
Army Opportunities 232-1616 
Join the people who've joined the Army. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

,................." .......................~~...................,
1

I -CHECK OUT -II 

IHOPS N' SPIRITS'"'
I THIS :-WEEKS 'SPECIAC,· 
'16 PAC~ ~~COKE IN CANS 1 99• 
I FOUR POPULAR .BEERS' j!· AT FOUR SPECIAL PRICES 
I 

WE SELL KE~_~_AT TH~ CHEAPEST 
··r;­
PRICE"IN TOWN. ·. 
--""~-~~ 
812 E. LASALLe AVE. \ 
• 287-2581 

INSIGHTS·· • • • • • • • • • • 
According to the latest issue of Rolling The police said the bandits took more than Stone Magazine, when Martin Mull signed a $500 in watches and gold rings. They have performance deal with the Troubador in Los staged similar raids on many clubs in the Angeles recently, he included a clause that area recently. read: "Any midgets present shall be escorte_!l by the operator to the •trG;t row The city council of * Madison, Wisconsin position· so that the stage can be easily has defeated a proposal to name a down­seen." The clause harks back to Martin's town street "Ho Chi Minh Trail." song "Margie the Midget," in which Margie The plan was strongly denou'nced by walks "band in ankle" with her normal­several aldermen, one of whom said, "I sized lover. think I can speak for the conservative community when I say Ho Chi Minh can rot 
in hell."
* 
* 
"Ketchup, mustard, pickles, relish; we The General Accounting Office reports are getting more rebellious," chanted 40 that part of President Ford's "rock Bottom" 
People's Bicentennial Commission activists budget for the Defense Department is '! 13.9 
<and part-time poets) as they hung Ronald million to maintain 300 military golf courses 
McDonald in effigy at the construction of the in 19 foreign countries and the United 
fast food chain's new outlet in Ann Arbor,States. That's pretty cheap, when you come 
Michigan.down to it. 
** 
Luxemburg Enterprises is marketing a.. According to the Washington Post, more "denim fader" spray that turns brand new, than 800 people have written to the FBI, CIA stiff Levi's into worn-out, lived-in jeans.
and Internal Revenue Service recently, asking those agencies-often identified with Now, if they can only do the pme for domestic intelligence operations -about double-knits, they'll be in business. information once locked in secret files. 
If you write to the FBI asking if there is a * 
The New York Times reported on Marchfile on you, they, very amicably, will 
28: "If Willy Brandy quotes his politicalautomatically open one on you. 
opponent, Franz Josef Strauss, again as h~vi~g said West Germany is a pig sty, he
* 
w11l mcur a .$213,000 fine or six months in
A group of robbers, known as the "drop jail."
your pants bandits" have been operating in "The court said that Mr. Strauss,Napels, Italy. The police report that five Bavarian aspirant to the Chancellorshipmasked men armed with postols and sawed­formerly held by Mr. Brandy, had onlyoff shotguns burst into a social club and told compared West Germany to a pig sty -not

• the 12 men present: "Drop your pants. This the same as saying hewas on~."
is a robbery." 
Campus Briefs *** 
Mr. Mellon added that "the

The Central Blood Bank opened 
1 initial response is gratifying.

a permanent blood collection site 
Even poets who never publlsh are

on the University of Notre Dame sending their work."
campus Tuesday June 10. Located 
The contest is being offered in

in the Student Infirmary, the 
conjunction with the inaugural

facility will serve faculty, students 
issue of World of Poetry, a monthly

and staff in the Notre Dame and 
etters to
newsletter of interest to people

Saint Mary's College community. 
concerned with poetry and poetics. 

According to Kennegh Krych, 
Rules and official entry forms

director of donor recruitment for 

a Lonely
are available by writing to: 'World

the St. Joseph County Blood Bank 
of Poetry, 801 Portola Dr., Dept.

Program, the site is needed so that , 211, San Francisco 94127.
the Blood Bank can take full ad­
God
I Contest closes June 30, 1975.

vantage of student response to the annual volunteer blood donor drive. Last year, 1,500 Notre 

Summer

Dame and Saint Mary's students pledged to donate blood, but less 
Father Griffin is vacationing than half of the blood actually was 
His column did
Rim

collected because of difficulties in 

us in time for publicationtransportingdonorsto and from the Blood Bank. Central Blood Bank staff 

scheclule 

members, assisted by volunteers from the St. Joseph County ' The Communication Arts 

reverend 
Department has announced its

Chapter of the American National 
Summer Session Film Series for

Red Cross, will operate the new 
1975. The films will be shown in the 


robert

facility, which will be open 
engineering Auditorium, at 7 and

Tuesdays and Wednesdays from 9 
10 PM 

to 11:15 a.m. and from 1 to 
The schedule is as follows : 


griffin

3:30p.m. Volunteers recruited during the recent blood donor drive among 
June 25 Harold and Maude ~ 

faculty and staff members will be scheduled to donate during the June 29 Knute Rockne -All summer months. American 
July 2 The Shop on Main Street 

July 6 Rebel Without a Cause A $1,000 grand prize will be awarded in the first annual Poetru July 9 The Crook 
The~ II pubiiiMdJilonday 
1 Competition sponsored by the 
through Friday end weekly 411irlno
World of Poetry. .July 13 · The Panic in Needle 
lflesumm«......_~ltlo
Park 
1

Poems of all styles and on any­
eurns Ud v•4;atfcin per._. The
King of Hearts -.... 

o.rvw .. ,..,lltled ... the
subject are eligible to compete for July 16 
."'*""Of tie UniverSity et-wotre
the grand prize or for 49 other cash 
~end St. MerYS eon.ge._

or merchandise awards. 
IMKrJptlona IMY lite ~­Joseph Mellon, contest director July 20 West Side Story 
tor I dollen ,_. Mlll•tw 06. 
said, "The best way to encourag~ 
lfoll•rd I*' :v-rl from the Qb.
The General J

poetic talent isto offer recognition July 23 
llfrver, ....Notre o.m. •ncarw ·as! well as prizesf'' Each winning July 'J:l 
*··5econd.CI-,-,........
Notorious 

,_llotre Dame, IW esM · _-~ I 
will be published in the of Poelryf Anthology -and August 3 Casablanca free to every entrant. 


Thursday , June 19, 1975 
the observer 
3 

OBSERVER CONTROVERSY 





SETTLED 
by Ken Bradford Copy Editor 

Notre Dame administrative officials confiscated between 1200 and 1500 copies of 
last  week's  Observer  ,  according  to  
Observer  Executive·  Editor  Fred  
Graver.  

Graver, who is serving as editor-in-chief of the summer staff, said administrators were angered by a six-by-eight-inch ad­vertisement on page 14 of the paper and were irked by certain "uncomplimentary articles" about University life in generaL 
Contributing to the University's concern, Graver said, was the fact that the pro­aborti.>n advertisement appeared in a publication connected with the University at a time when alumni were attending a reunion on campus. 
An estimated crowd of two thousand Alumni and their wives were attending the reunion when the newspapers were distributed last week. 
Pagna Reacts 

According to administrative sources, the first official to do anything about the ad­vertisement was Tom Pagns, president of the Alumni Association and former assistant football coach. Pagna was assisting with alumni registration in Stepan Center when a representative of the Observer arrived with a bundle of newspapers. 
Pagna claimed that no actual confiscation took place but that the newspapers were interfering with the registration process and were placed in a back room. He added that members of the University administration questioned him as to whether he would like all newspapers on campus collected and set aside but that he diclined this offer. 
Dr_ Robert Ackerman, director of professional development for student af­fairs, said he was one of the administrators who spoke with Pagna at Stepan Center and said his impression was that Pagna wanted the papers removed from all areas t frequented by alumni. 
Confiscation Discovered 
Graver reported that he first learned of the confiscation Friday morning when he noticed that the newspapers he had placed on campus for distribution had vanished.. 
"I convinced a secretary that Mr. Pagna gave me permission to remove the papers," Graver said. "I thought I might be able to use them in bargaining with the Ad­ministration." 
The newspapers he removed from Pagna 's control at Stepan Center were placed in the Huddle, Graver said. He added that within ten minutes the bundle had mysteriously disappeared. 
He then called Fr. Burtchaell and arranged and interview with the provost to discuss the situation. Burtchaell claimed at that time that he had no knowledge of any administrative plan to confiscate the newspapers from Stepan Center, Graver said. 
Burtchaell Speaks 
At the afternoon meeting, Graver and Burtchaell discussed the possibility of a court battle over the University's right to interfere with the distribution of student publications, Graver said. He noted that recent Supreme Court dicisions have tended to favor the student rather than the school 
University Control 
A formal challenge to the University's power to limit campus journalism, however, would have devastating financial effects on the· Observer , Graver said. 
"The University rents us office space for a low price and serves as our banking system," Graver stated. "We could beat them in court but they could force us off­campus, call in our equipment loans and stop acting as our banker." 
Damage done to Notre Dame ROTC facilitie·s 
by Andy Praschak 
Associate Editor 

A minimal amount of damage and theft occured in the Notre Dame ROTC building in the early morning hours of June sixth, according to Arthur N. Pears, director of Notre Daine Security. A small rug fire, destroying one wool rug and singeing a small section of the floor discovered around 5 a.m., first alerted security to the invasion of the building by intruders. 
No clues as to the number or identity of the vandals who also broke the glass in a door and cabinet, damaged a Navy com­pass, and stole two electric typewriters, have yet been discovered by either security or the FBI, who are also working on the case, according to Pears. "Seeing as it is a government building, the FBI have taken a vested interest in the case," said Pears. 
Pears commented that the student who 
resides in the ROTC building had been 
entertaining grusts until about twelve thirty. 
in the morning a few hours before the in­
trusion allegedly occured. "Since there 
were no visible signs of forcivle entry, it 
must be assumed that either the intruders 
entered while the student was entertaining 
• all the doors were not properly secured ithat night," said Pears. However, he noted that the doors were routinely checked by Security around 3:15 am and found to be locked. 
Because of the state ot the small fire when tM janitor entered, Pears theorized that the . agP had to be done around four thirty in 
the morning. "I must note that we can only make speculations based on the evidence the FBiand Notre Dame Security have assembled," he added. 
Pears noted that although no leads have yet been discovered, the FBI is undertaking a thorough investigation of the entire event. Pears displayed a model aY.plane, obviously handled by the intruder and explained that the FBI had processed the model and been unsuccessful in finding fingerprints. 
That, Graver said, would spell the end for the : Observer 
Graver noted that such threats were made by Burtchaell at the meeting. "Itwas a case of out-and-out coercion and censorship," he said, "but the University is worth more to us financially than $94," the cost of the ad. 
Alumni Comforted 
Graver said he feels the University may have been concerned for the comfort of the alumni but that it was also concerned that the appearance of a pro-abortion ad­vertisement would have an adverse effect on alumni contributions. 
He added that he believes tha confiscation of the campus newspaper by the ad­ministration would not have been possible if the entire student body had been present. "If the students had been here this would 
have been an outrageously large issue," he 
said. 

Burtchaell will be out of town for the next three weeks and could not be reached to comment on the controversy. 
Censorship Discussed 
Administrators have discounted the im­portance of the confiscation-censorship issue and have called the affair a conflict between the Observer and the alumni group, intensified by the irresponsible journalism of the newspaper. 
Fr. Terry Lally, assistant vice president for student affairs, said the appearance of the newspaper at the alumni registration center was a comvlete shock to Pagna. 
contained in the Observer could ruin all 
the hard work Pagna had done to make the 
reunion a success. "If this waa aimed at 
reintroduciJul alumni to the campus, the 
Observer was entirely inappropriate," Ackerman stated. 
He said many alumni are not aware that 
the Universi~y does not offlciaUy contrql UJe 
Observer Thus, he said, many of the 
alumni may have left the campus reunion 
with the mistaken idea that the University 
condoned the pro-abortion advertisement in 
the newspaper. 
"There is no statement explaining the 
separation of the University from the Observer in the paper itself," Ackerman 
said. "Itlooks to the alumni that University 
is sanctioning the ad." 
Lally agreed that the inflammatory nature of the abortion issue is simply out of place at alumni gatherings. "Abortion is the one issue that always assures you of a heated discussion," Lally said. 
To interrupt a setting of relaxation and reminiscence with such an issue, he said, would destroy the purpose of the alumni reunion. 
· Abortion Issue 
Lally also noted that the issue of abortion is especially divisive at Notre Dame. 
The University has no formal policy regarding abortion, according to 'Graver, but "the University community has a distinct anti-abortion tone." 1 
A campus anti-abortion group paid for a~~ four-page advertisement January 22, 1975, protesting the anniversary of the Supreme 1 _ Court decision to legalize abortion. The ' advertisement was in the form of a petition calling for a constitutional amendment to 

The officials connected with the affair hald "abortion on demand." were faced with a situation they believed Most of the University Officers, including called for immediate and effective action, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, president, Fr. Lally stated. James Burtchaell, provost, Bro. Just 
Paczesny, vice president for student affairs, "We were caught with all our weapons inand Fr. Ferdinand .Brown, associate mothballs," Lally said. "We didn't have the provost, signed the petition. 
tme to discuss the legal or moral issues and implications." 
The quality of journalism in the papers necessitated their removal from the alumni station, he said. 
Provocative Journalism 
Ackerman identified three major facets of the paper which he said bothered· him He 
•said the abortion ad, an article on J)artetal_s.
d

violations in Cavanaugh HaD an the . ' 
selection on letters for the editorial page 
were all in poor taste. 
ACkerman noted that many people had complained that these articles were "not the sort ·of thing that should be printed for ..alumnj." 
According to Ackerman, administrators Ad Cancelled 
'i'he pro-abortion advertisement which "'JSted the controversy was paid for by th~ 
National Health Care Service. The contract for the ad had been ter­minated, Graver added. 
In the past, controversial advertisements were discussed by the OBSERVER editorial staff before any such ad was printed, G 'd If i 'f' be f th
raver sa1 . a s gm 1cant num r o tt
di bj · 
e 'torso ected to the ad, the ad would be
d 1 ed f 
e et rom the paper. · 
Th ff · 'sed f n1
e summer sta IS compn o o y five or six people, Graver noted, and he is the only editor from the regular staff working on the paper. 
Graver said the abortion advertisement did not strike him as offensive at the time o( its publication but that he can now un· derstand how certain peppie miJht be of.j 

Fingerprints have not yet been found on any ,._w;.;e;r,;,e.;;di;;,;'s~p;,;le;;a;;;,se;;d;.th;;;;a.;.t.;;;th;;;e;.,;so~r;.t,;;;;Of;..io;;:W'Il:.:,;;a;;;;lism;;;;;~.:,fen;::d::;;ed--..------·-----­
item examined in the building. 
"We broke a glass in the vandalized room 
and it could visibly be heard in the student 
resident's room," said Pears. However, 
Pears noted that neither thestudent nor any 
of his friends heard anything unusual the 
night of the entry. 

The investigation by the FBI includes 
checking on people who are known to have 
frequented the building as well as those 
suspected of having ill feelings towards any 
of the offices or emplouees of the building. 
Pears commented that he is hopeful that the 
mystery concerning the vandalism, arson 
and burglary will soom be solved by a 
combined effort of the Notre Dame Security 
and FBI. 

The Notre Dame ROTC building is located 
on the west edge of the south quad, behind 
the Knute Rockne Memorial. The Notre 
Dame ROTC program is one of only thirteen 
in the country to represent all four .~;>ranches , of the military services. 
• 
' 
... _~1 



' 
'·,\ 

--~.~~.,­
"' 

Thursday , June 19, 1975 -t
the observer 

Photo Competition to open in early July 
"River City Summer: On The Road," the Second Annual Michiana Photo Competition, will open July 1, 1975. Sponsored by Saint Mary's College and the National Endowment for the Arts and the Indiana Arts Commission, the photo competition is open to all current and former residents within a fifty mile radius of South Bend. The competition is sup­ported by area commerce, civic groups, and photo clubs. 
Entries will be accepted from July 1 through July 15; the entry fee of one dollar entitles photographers to submit up to five prints <black and white, color, or snapshots) of any size up to four feet by eight feet. No limit has been placed on subject matter; however, commercial photography, such as wedding protraits and slides will not be accepted in the competition. 
Photos may be professionallyprinted or printed by the artist; no work which was in the 1974 show may be submitted this year. Works must be matted or mounted, without frames. All works must be original and submitted by the photographer who took them. 

All ·works submitted in "River City Summer: On the Road" will be returned; rejected works will be returned immediately after judging. Winning entries will be ehxibited forst at Saint Mary's College; the show will then tour the Michiana area. Accepted works will be returned after the show completes its tout. 
L!ash, mercliandlse, and-ribbons will be awarded in many categories. B Best of Show awards will be made in three areas : BBest Blask and White Print, Best Color Print, and Best Smapshot. Per­sons interested in entering the competition should send their entries to Photo Contese, Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana 46656. Entries may also be left in Programming office of the college: Room 239, Moreau Hall. Each print must have the photographer's name, address, 
. phone, category, and aludt or : youth 08 years of age a~d under). 
All resonable care will be taken to protect photographs; however, Saint Mary's . College and exhibitors of the show will not be responsible for loss o or damage. 

"Sleuth," the first of four adult Ballinger is assistant professor and two children's productions to of acting with the theater program be presented by the Notre Dame-and last summer was seen as Saint Mary's College Summer Henry VIII in "A Man For All 
Theater, will open at 8 pm Friday(June 20) and will continue on June 21, 27 and 28. The productions in Little Theater on the Saint Mary's campus are open to the public. 
Starring in the bizarre whodunit authored by Anthony Shaffer are Charles Ballinger and Bill McGlinn. A cozy English country house has been designedby director Richard Bergman and costumes for the production are byKathrine Gammney. 
Seasons." A native of Fort Worth and the recipient of a master's degree from Texas Christian University, he has been acclaimed for his portrayals in Indiana University at South Bend, Casa Manana Playhouse and Astor's Repertory Company productions. In "Sleuth" he· plays the part of Andrew Wyke, the aging mysterywriter. 
A senior at Notre Dame, McGlinn follows memorable 

performances in starring roles for 
"Look Homeward, Angel" and the 
workd premiere of "Fellows" on 
campus with his portrayal of the 
young and debonair Milo Tindle. 

He is a resident of South Bend and 
a graduate of St. Joseph High
School. 
J Other summer produc.tions in­clude Lawrence and Lee's "Inherit tbe Wing," Bernard Shaw's "Arms ant the Man," "Ten Nights in a Barroom," and two plays for children,"Jack and the Beanstalk" and "Tales From Mother Goose." 

Grounds heads grads 
Margaret Grounds, 925 (259A Algonquin), an English Cleveland Avenue, South Bend, a major who will serve as secretary­graduate student in English at the· treasurer. University of Notre Dame,. has The GSU is holding weeklybeen elected president of the summer meetings in the Advanced Graduate Student Union. Students Lounge (2nd floor, 
Other officers include Donald H. Laortune) on Wednesdays between FRoy, vice president, of 242 Pin~ 12:00. noon and 1:00 p.ni. ~ese Oak, Mishawaka, and formerly of' meehngs are open to all full·h~e Hartford, Conn. (15 Mariqn St.>,: grad students. Come a~d brmg majoring in government, an your ~unch for an n~fo~mal Charlotte Single of SLushy, Md. discussiOn of graduate of]echves. 
Ceramic-s workshoo·to be held in Old Fieldhouse 
.. A ceramics workshop in the ,-..,.,""""' Old Fieldhouse will be presented July 7-18 Bby Steve Kemenyffy, Warren MacKenzie, Don Reitz and Ken Vavrek. The visiting artists plan to supplement the two weeks of intensive involvement with a program of seminars, slide lec­tures and an eshibition of their works. Reitz has been featured in several shows in this country and abroad, represented in more than 20 major collections, including Smithsonian Institution, and has received commissions from the Smithsonian, Chicago Art Institute and other major a~t ~ent~rs. 
Participating in the soft sculpture workshop July 14-18 will be Walter Nottingham, Donna 

Stepan Center on June 23 
· 312 f th Ad · ·str ti 
m room o e mm1 a on 
Building, before attempting, to register. At the Stepan Center, in ex­
change for the completed enrollment card, students will receive a summer session 
"Student Class Schedule" which is to be used as an identification card. Building code numbers and the time schedule codes are ex­plained on the back page of the "Summer Session Course Booklet", available at the Registrar's Office. 

Any additional "drops", "adds" or "audits" may be processed through Friday, June 27, 1975, which is the last date for changes 
without penalty, according to Kil.

Students are then asked to report to the Office of the department chairman which offers the course to be dealt with, to obtain per­mission. The next step is to take the approved form to the Office of Students' Accounts 002 Ad­ministration Building) to adjust the account. Students will then be directed to the Office of the Registrar for final processing for the change. 
Kil commented that ap­
proximately 2,000 students are 
expected this summer for classes, 
workshops, mini-eourses etc. The 
Summer Session Office is located 
on the second floor of the Ad­
ministration Building and the 
phone number from off-eampus is 
283-7282. 

-. . .. ..
~ ~ 
.. ·' ; 

Crosson named editor ot' quarterly 
the observer 

Dr Frederick J. Crosson, a Dame where the shcolarly journal professor in the General Program is published quarterly. of Liberal Studies and dean of the Crosson will assume his College of Arts and Letters until editorship when he returns to the this year, has been named editor of campus in the fall of 1976 after a Y The Review of Politics by Rev. year's leave, and Prof. Tho~as James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., Stritch, who has served as actu~g provost of the University of Notre 1 editor since September, 1973. Will 
Institute in Pastoral Administration scheduled lor middle of June 
An inter-dedemoninational Institute· in Pastoral Ad­ministration, focusing on the development of skills needed by pastors to improve their per­formance in spiritual areas of primary concern, has been scheduled by the graduate program in the College of Business Administration at the University of Notre Dame June 16-20. 
Part of the annual Summer Session at Notre Dame, the em­phasis at the institute will be on answers for clergy dealing with people, both staff and volunteer, 
Theology sets mini-courses 
and the organization and management of councils and committees. One day of the session will concentrate on the preparation and use of budgent. 
Dr. C. joseph Sequin, director of the Masters in Institutional Ad­ministration program, noted that faculty for the institute will include Rev. Morton Kelsey, Episcopalian pastor and author; Dr. Kenneth Milani, assistant professor of accountancy and consultant on parish budgets; Rev. Chet Raber, direct the publication's editorial affairs until that time. 
Oaklawn  Psychiatric  Center  
educaion  director  and  former  
/  

A member of the Notre Dame facutly since 1953, Crosson received his doctoral degree from the University after earlier study at the Catholic University of America and the University of 
pastor of Sunnysid Mennonite Church; Rev. William RRademacher, professor of systematic theology and director of pastoral formatibn at St. John's Seminary, Plymouth, Mich.; Brother Leo Ryan, C.S.V., newly appointed dean of the Notre Dame college and author of more than 400 articles, and Dr. William Sexton, an authority on management problems in churches. 
Persons interested in par­ticipating in the program are asked to contact Dr. QSequin or the Summer Session office at Notre 
A group of late afternoon courses 
have  been  scheduled  by  the  
Theology  Department  at  the  
University  of  Notre  Dame  for  

persons planning to attend Sum-m'er Session classes beginningJune 23. The one-week courses will 
provide one credit hour, but are t>qually attractive to persons with an ~~terestdin the subject and not see mga egree. 
"Theology of the Church,"
"Twent•'eth Century Theolog•·ans," "Methodology in the History of Religions," and "Theological Themes Today." 
Rev. Leone I L Mitchell, cha•·rman o-f Theolog-y's Summer 
~~~~~~· wi~~::k·f~:~s;~~ by~=: 
Elisabeth S. and Francis P. Fiorenza, Dr. Norman. Girardot, Dr. Stanley Hauerwas, Dr. 
Other courses to be offered at· William O'Brien and Dr. Hans J. earlier hours this summer include Verweyen in the teaching of the "Theological Ethics," "Wisdom classes. Literature," "Biblical Theology," Courses in this time period will '' Med ieva I Chris tia ni ty,'' be "Biomedical Ethics," 4 to 6 pm 
M,, on~a~ through Friday;
Chrlstia M . T d " 

n arnage o ay, 7:30 to 9:30pm; "Eucharist in the New Testament," 4 to 6 pm; "Ethics of Marriage and Sexuality,"7:30 to 
9. 30 pm d "Th R 1 f 
1 

. . an e o e o Re igion 
· m Today's Society•" 7:30 to 
9 :~~~e Dame's Pr'ogram in Liturgical Studies will also offer a series' of courses under the directionofDr.WilliamG.Storey. Additional information on all summer classes may be obtained from the Director of Summer Session, Administration Building,_ Notre Dame, Ind. 
Math workshop set for SMC 
Is two dollars a good price for a Entitled "Experiences in the units such as miles, quarts and kilogram of hamburger? Would a Metric System," the short summer pounds," says Donald Miller ~f the 
seven meter car fit in your garage? course will be similar in content mathematics department.Should you see a doctor of your and methodology to workshopsbody temperature is thirty-seven which the College's mathematic . Activitie~ in . the workshop will
degrees Celsuis? How many department staff has conducted for mclude estimation and comparison 
kilometers per hour can you drive local elementary teachers of common measurements. within city limits? throughout the school year. Specific topics include "Metric 
These and many other "The course objective is to Cooking," "Metric Travel " mathematical problems will be develop in participants the ability "Metri~ Gardening," "Metric solved in a special laboratory­to 'think metric,' just as society Mechamcs," "Metric Carpentry " workshop at Saint Mary's College. now thinks in terms of familiar and"Consumer Metrics," ' 

Welches endow professorship 
A 1924 graduate of the University of Notre Dame and a retired executive of the New York Telephone Company, W. Harold Welch, and his wife, Martha, have established an endowed professorship at the University. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame President, said the W. Harold and Martha Welch chair would reflect the donor's lifelong interest in com­munications. Welch noted that the endowed professorship was in­tended "to call attention to Notre Dame's traditional strength in the area of communications and to spur innovative scholarship in the field." 
Father Hesburgh commented, "The promise of communication ­whether it be between two persons or two cultures --is understanding, and the fruit of understanding is community. Notre Dame welcomes a professorship which can influence this progression." 
Welch retired in 1961 as a member of the executive boadr of the New York Telephone Com­pany. His wife, who holds bac­calaureate and master's degrees from Columbia University, served for several years in an executive and advisory capacity in the area of health and education 
· for the New York City school system. 
On more than one and student" with fellow students. occasion he has expressed sincere concern for continuing im-The new endowment brings to 18 provement of the communication the number of endowed process between pastor and , professorships established by the parishoner. professor and student, 1 University since 1967. ___ 



r-------------------­
1 Your Second Beer 
I

I Is On Us At II LOUIE'S 
IYOU BUY THE FIRST AND WE BUY 
I I THE SECOND (with this coupon). 
I I 

I 
FOOD SERVED ALL SUMMER 
I 
OPEN AFTER 6:00 PM 
744 W. Nofre Dame Ave.L ..-~::~; Bend----­
Paris He ··s a · 1· t · 
· spec1a ts m Joseph Pieper Christopherf!ht;nomenol_ogy and existert-l Dawson, Hans' Morgenthau~ahsm, and ts the a!!thor of books I HHerbert Butterfield, Hannah 
nd . scholarly articles on the Moseley Berrand de Jouvenal rel~tlon of computers and in-Raymond Sontag Hans Kohn' telhgence. _ / Walter Ong and James Johnso~ 

The Review of Politics was Sweeney· founded in 1939 by Waldemar G~:~rian, a professor of political sctence, who served as editor until his death in 1954, and thereafter by Dr. M.A. Fitzsimons, professor of history, until he was succeeded by 1 Stritch. 
In the more than 35 years of existence, The Review of Politics I has amassed a world-wide : readership among · scholars, 1 journalists and career specialists • in international relations, I diplomatic history, and political j 


I 
J: 
\ j'l 
theory and practice. Contributers have included Jacques Maritain, 
House, Painting 
DOES YOUR HOME 
NEED PAINTING? 
EXPERIENCED 
PAINTERS (TWO N.D. 
GRADUAtES) WILL 
PAINT INTERIOR­
EXTERIOR 
VERY REASONABLE!! 
CALL 234-1889 For Free 
Estimate· 
BARLO 
PLAYHOUSE 
"IDo,.,IDo" thru June 29 
"Fantastiks " 
' 
July and August 
At TINKER'S DAM: MIC HIG A NIC ITY,jl ND. 
Reserv. (219) 879--7373-. ' 


5tUI 

No.J 

·For the last 12 years, in tact, dependabi I ity, economy and 
' value have kept Li'l Hustler No. 1 in small pickup sales. And now it's even better: 
• 
2000cc SOHC engine 

• 
4-epeed stick ehlft 

• 
Contoured bench seat 

• 
Whitewall truck ftres 

• 
All-eteel load bed ... and more, allatandardl 


i' 
LIST PRICE $3431 SALE PRICE· 

$3290 
~~~.~~~!~
.2$5-9~·~ 
RACING EVERY TUESDAY NIGHt 
SOUTH BEND MOTOR SPEEDWAY. Time trial at 7:00 p.m. Race at 8:30 p.m. 
Track located 3 miles west of So. Bend on Western Ave. 
Lunches: Monday thru Friday 1 1 :30-2:15 
Dinner:· Monday thru Thursday 5:00-11 :00 Friday and Saturday 5:00-12:00 
I Sunday 4:00-10:00 
WE HONOR CHARGE ~AR~ .. 55285 U.S. 3l~ NORT~ 

272-54?'8 

JI,,L-...............................~~--&..-........~..•­

Thrusday June 19, 1975 
seriausiY, falks 22. picas 




CIA Tribute 
ar' buc:hwaJd 
Most Americans are willing to put up with all the shenanigans of the CIA in, the name of national security. As a matter of fact the only item in the Rockefeller Commission's report that seemed to disturb anybody was the one where it was revealed that the CIA had been experimenting with LSD and giving it to unknowing victims. 
It makes one very nervous now to go to the house of someone who works for the agency. 
The day after the report came out I dropped over to Blackwhistle's house to see if I could get any more information than had appeared in the commission's findings. 
Blackwhistle asked me if I would like a cup of coffee. 
"Yes," I said, "thank you." 
He poured out the coffee into a mug and said, "One lump of sugar or two?" "I'll take it black,"I said nervously. "It's awfully strong,"he said. "Let me 
put one lump in for you." "No! No! I don't want any Sugar!" I screamed. "But you always take sugar in your coffee," he said. 
"I'm trying to lose weight," I replied. 
"How about a lump of saccharin?" 
"Please, Blackwhistle. I don't want anything in the coffee." "All right. Would you like a vitamin C tablet?" 
"What for?" 
"You might catch a cold sitting next to the air conditioner." "That's all right, I like catching colds." "Have a cookie," Blackwhistle said. "I just made them" 
"You just made cookies?" 
"Of course, everybody at the agency learns to bake. It's part of outtraining." He showed me a book, "The Joy of CIA Cooking." 
I was about to open it when he grabbed it from me and said, "I'm sorry, it's­classified." 

I passed up the cookies. 
I sat drinking my coffee and staring at him. 
Finally he said, "Have you ever thought about ta~inl! a trip?" 
"What the hell are you talking about?" 
"Nothing, I was just thinking how nice it would be to take a trip some place where no one had ever been before." 
"I'd rather go to Disney World," I said. 
"How about some saltwater taffy? They 
had a sale on it at the CIA candy store 
today." 
"I'm not hungry, Blackshistle. As a 
matter of fact I came to speak to you about 
the Rockefeller report. It said the CIA was 
involved in assassinations, break-ins, 
illegal reading of mail, domestic spying 
and political espionage." 
"Nobody 's perfect," he said defensively. 
"How about a bowl of canned peaches with 
syrup ?" 
"No way," I said. "Frankly, even your 
coffee tastes bitter." 
"That's because you didn't put any sugar 
in it. Here, let me help you." 
I held the coffee close to my bosom to 
protect it. "I like my coffee bitter," I cried. 
He seemed very nervous. Then he 
said, "Popcorn. Certainly you would like 
some popcorn with melted butter on it. I can 
make some in a jiffy. Once you taste it, 
you'll be out of this world." 
"I've got to go. Thanks again for all the 
hospitality." 
"Don't go," he egged. "Have pot luck 
with us." 
"Maybe some other time." I said goodby 
and dashed home. 
When I walked into the kitchen my wife 
said, "I'm glad you're home. Would you go 
over to the Blackwhistles and ask if we 
could borrow a cup of sugar?" 
I shouted at her, "Are you out of your 
blinkiri' mind?" 

In his last column, a tribute to journalist I.F. Stone, Gleason wrote what stands among his finest work. In his portrait of Stone, he was showing a bit of himself as well. "Stone can make morality fashionable in a time of such intellectual corruption that no one raises a whisper against being told it is not enough to be clean, you must smell clean." 
Gleason went on in that column to talk about the American 
people, a group that he never gave up hope on. "No nation in 
history has been as brainwashed as we have been ... The pentagon 
has made most Americans unable to think with their heads. 
"But they think with their hearts and their guts and sometimes with their muscles and I suspect that the citizenship is less fooled, even if it is impossible for them to intellectualize it after decades of propaganda, than the manipulatior want. And it is certainly true thatltheiconconstituency is less stupid than the president and his strongman pretend." 
He had courage and guts and a good mind and a good heart. If he wasn't a giant or a great figure of our times (he may have been-he certainly was one on the west coast> then I guess you can caD him a pillar. A strong, sturdy, incredibly reliable pillar in a structure of truth that pops up around here all to infrequently . 
. It is good to remember something he wrote in the first "Per­spectives" column I read: "It is still a wirld of changes no matter how much people want to "





%1!£..,

Founded Novtllillber 3, 1966 
Editor-in-Chief Andy Praschak Associate Editor Fred Gl"aver 
Ed Pawlowski Advertising Manager 
Judy Smith IUSB Editor ·chris Smith 
Photo Editor Bob Tracy Ad Layout candy Frankovelgia 
Production· Manager Sue Zwick 
Production Manager 
Editorials: 283-8661 News: 283--1715 Business: 283-7471 

Ralph Gleason 

Is Dead 

fred 'draver
• 
Miles Davis, Joseph Heller, Bob Dylan, Lenny Bruce, I.F. Stone, Duke Ellington, John Lennon. 
Ralph J. Gleason admired these people, among others. He wrote about them often. Interpreting their words or their actions, examining them and looking {or links in their lives that could show us something about ourselves. 
When he wrote about anything, it was with love. He once said that a critic wasn't worth a "diddly bop" if he didn't love the thing he was writing about. 
His column was called Perspectives,. and it ran in every issue of Rolling Stone. That magazine has been through an incredible amount of changes in its eight years of existence. Now, at a time when it's number-{)ne writer is sending letters to the management claiming that walking into America's so-called "journal of the counter-culture" was no different than entering the newsroom of a 
of a Hearst newspaper it is sad to see Ralph Gleason leave. 
Ralph Gleason brought to Rolling Stone a sense of cultural and social history that was a keel for the undercurrents of what the magazine was attempting: reportage on the main-line currents of the times. Gleason had been around, and been active in, the music­writing-art-political scene since the late twenties. His backlog of stories, anecdotes and general information was startling. I hope that someone has a collection of his memoirs, because they could tell us an awful lot about where we've been and where we're going. 
He was a teacher, a philosopher, a comic, a satirist, a prophet, a clown, a critic, a friend and a source of very positive energy to all who came in contact with him, whether personally or through his work. 
Sometimes, upon reading his column, it would seem that he had missed the boat entirely. It would be disturbing, because when he missed, he was incredibly off <or so one would think), fumbling and stumbling and even looking like he was getting a little old for all of this. 
At other times, he was incredibly on the mark. The prose would glow, the ideas would scream brilliantly from the page; each paragraph in his tightly woven essay would be an illumination. 
Either way, on or off, he was al~ays able to center in like the catalyst he was. Whether he had spoken what seemed to be the gospel truth, or had lost it altogether, you always came away with a better grip on your own ideas and feelings, you had a more clear way of looking at things. Anew perspective. 
Ralph J. Gleason was a man of intense personal vision. He spoke the truth when he saw it, and spoke about the lies when he couldn't see them, and spoke all of the stuff that falls in between. The im­portant thing is that he spoke in a voice that was clear enough for us all to hear and understand, and spoke to us like brothers and sisters, with no bullshitting around. 
He wrote about music, expecially jazz and rock. He wrote about artists. He wrote about politics, and newspapers, and the Big Lie. He wrote Gleason's Law: No matter how paranoid you get, they're doing more than you think they're doing." 
He wrote-about the way American musicians treated John Lennon's immigration status fight: "There isn't an artist on the Billboard top 200 albums who shouldn't be picketing the Im­migration office, writing letters in John's difense and campaigning actively to get him off this bum rap. Where the hell is everybody?" 
He wrote about the way we treat our artists, especially the musicians and the artists who bring their work out into the street: !'Nobody says the audience has to dig what the artist is doing. They have the right to leave and never come back if they wish. But he has the right to do whatever it is he feels the inspiration <power, necessity, desire) to do. The only thing he -the artist -has to deliver is his best. He contr~ts for that, all right, if he accepts his role as artist." 
--~-~---­

Bernard Shaw On The CIA qarr~ 

wills 

Thursday June 19, 1975 
the observer 




To criticize the CIA, one need not feel any The cook can no longer cook for three argument tells against all large We a.re back at the problem ofleeding and animus toward it on ideological grounds. <counting herself), she must cook for bureaucratic agencies. But recast the fable supplymg all these servants. One full-time Even if one agreed entirely with the eleven. Nine extra people's clothes must be to allow for the secrecy factor. The nine washer ~oman cannot ~ake care of all the agency's goals, and had no objection to its washed, beds made, hours arranged, oq~inal servants must conduct hidden servants clothes-:-she IS not supposed to past record, there would still be two solid conflicts adjudicated, accounts watched, lives. Even the large house built to contain know about the existence of some servants. arguments against it. These arguments are habits corrected, in order to get the two them is not enough. They must be main-Beds are made in the several abodes, not political; they derive from common people's needs looked after. Simply finding tained secretly elsewhere, a new expense; tunnels d~g to• J connect them, and mon• sense, and can be stated simply: 1) It is and hiring, testing and firing servants takes they must be brought to the house in secret-people paid to keep the secret of how, or hard to keep a secret. 2 The bureaucracy ever more effort-so another servant is ~ five-fold expense, for the transportation w~~ther, th~se. things. are being done. The spends most of its time servicing itself. added to perform this and cognate duties. 1tself, for the secrecy measures around it, mlun house 1s filled w1th secret passages, so 
Put these two insights together, and you The division of labor is carefully maintained for transporters paid both to transport and all the servants do not collide. Men must be see that a huge intelligence agency has the by the nine servants (not ten), so that extra to keep the secret, for the off-hours and hired for the carpentry, must therefore be bureaucratic problem mulitplied several-tasks must be done by special people called double-time of the transporters' and ser-checked, and watched, and paid well to keep fold, since it is servicing a particularly ln. A part-time gardener makes the servant vants' employment, and for the people who thei~ secrets. Wh~n a s.ervant leaves, he vulnerable thing--its own secrecy. And all count ten and a half. A messenger boy have time to make all these quiet carnes secrets .w1th h1m, and another the servicing efforts must in turn have thier makes it eleven. And so on. arrangements and keep them in operation. servant must be hired to watch what he does secrecy protected. outside the service. The bureaucratic 
Bernard Shaw puts the bureaucratic problem, bad enough, becomes a nightmare problem perfectly in a brief parable. A Soon the employer must work harder to The house work must be done at night, or in no time when multiplied by the secrecy wealthy Edwardian couple with one servant keep up this wasteful empire--or, if he lives in odd hours, as if by magic. Scheduling factor. got as much service as another family with off others, they must be harder worked, or a presents great difficulties. So does hiding nine servants. The house that gave Jiving greater portion of their work must pay for the source of pay given to these servants. 
That is what the current investigations or space to eleven people (the couple and their the wasteful upkeep of the lord. Besides, some servants' activities must be the CIA are all about. And, naturally, we nine servants> was of necessity larger than hidden from their fellows. That involves still taxpayers are paying for the people to find 

that accommodating three people--and another house, another transportation 
out all these secret tunnels whose con­

much of the nine people's work must go to You see the parallel-government is tfie system; another fake conduit of pay, and struction we also paid for. We pay the 
the upkeep of the larger mansion, even employer, and the taxpayers are being ' another system to check up on what these hunters and the hunted, the hounds and the though it was made large in the first place to worked to keep up the cannibalizing efforts servants do that their fellow servants 
foxes, and both multiply like rabbits. It is house them. of thP. hnrP.aucracv. As such, Shaw's. cannot see. 

Alice time in this industrious Wonderland. 
______ ......;,._.,.__ ­

inside aut A Lifetime Of Friendship iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii&iandfd prasichak 
With the long awaited and all-too-brief visit of Notre Dame Alumni to their beloved campus now a part of of the past, it deserves nothing short of a moment of contemplation on the part of all of us connected with the occasion. Where is there to be found a greater insight into the complexities of life than those "Domers" who laughed with Knute Rockne, burned the South Bend Trolley cars, resided in the west wing of the Administration Building and payed a mere fifty cents to watch the legendary "Four Horsemen" defeat the best college teams in the country'? 
Wheras Mike hosted the class of 1960, Gary drove a campus shuttle bu$, and Paul kept things running smoothly at Reunion '75 headquarters, I was given the greatest privilege of all -to spend three unforgetable days with the Notre Dame class of 1925, most of whom were in their middle seventies. Pearls of wisdom flowed
11/U/.., I C4NJ' S4Y 

711M/31SN'T
51~/UIEN 

from this group more freely than did the beer at the class of 1970's
ANYRNAl 11/e HIT 
FOR 51/RC, BOY!-BIJT 

parties. The question then became, for myself at least, "What
50iPit:R/-/(/£'YE
(}{IESTKJNS?.. ~1/R£ 
IN TH& /..ONG RVN, THIIT 

basic 'lesson is there to be learned from these beautiful, beautiful
GOi'-11 fJMCHH£AI)
OO&SN'T f<&AL.t.Y CON­

~It/HAT Ill& EXPEC!W
J 
people who have traveled the long road I find myself now begin­
ceRN IJS! '1/1&RCS A lfiHAT

. /SIT, TO SUSTAIN 
7lJ ESTA8/../SH! d MARINE? H&AVYCAS­
nin~'?"
~PRING~E /..AR6eR 
I 8IJl; 

I somehow feel selfish using the fifty years of joys, troubles and heartaches these radiant souls have experienced to make my own life a little easier. But then again, being granted a brief look into their hearts has assured me that nothing in the worjld would make them any happier. Of course, they were handing out advice left and right, as to how to make my years at Notre Dame a little happier, a little easier, a little more meaningful. But it was not in this advice that I found my greatest lesson. 
The lesson I learned was in their eyes ...... the look in Mr. Frank Doriot's <'23) eyes when he sadly told me he didn't want to leave his friends ... the look in one man's eyes when he spied a name tag with a name he had not seen since graduation ... the joy in two men's eyes when they boasted that they had skinney dipped together in St. Mary's lake fifty years ago ... the s~dness in the eyes when they were told that one of their friends had passed away since the last reunion. 
Their word of mouth advice told me to work hard, get good grades, go to law school and even marry a rich St. Mary's girl . But their eyes told me that if I walk out of Notre Dame with one good friend, my four years will have been invaluable. If I leave du lac with someone I know I will be returning with in fifty years, then "Our Lady" will have been good to me. 
I will return here for my reunions every five years and I'm sure there will be many people I will be happy to see and talk over old times with. But I'm talking about that one person with whom I can share, learn and grow both here during what are our most im­pressionable years and afterwards when our real lives begin. I'm speaking of that one person whose sorrows and joys will be mine and mine his. I'm describing a friend whom I may not see for years after college but somehow we will still be together and we\knowj o!le\ 
1daywe'llbetogether again; a friend I'm not ashamed to say I love. I think I've found that person and can only hope that everyone has or will find that friend. Then and only then will my years at Notre Dame be worthwhile. 
' Susan Polis Schutz expressed these feelings in the follo;ing few short lines : · 
"Man is forced to be alone by the very nature of society. But If you meet a person who Is not envious, who loves and believes In other than himself, then to this person offer a 11/etlme of friend­ship." 

r----~------­
1nursaay , .1une IY, IYt~
the observer

8 


Courtyard lends beauty to IUSB-
IUSB's courtyard is now in full bloom, 
One of the major maintainence tasks of 
with the fountain spraying its mist on the the pool is the lighting. The lights need to be 
stone surrounding the pool. sealed properly to operate. The recess light 
According to Elmer Carr, head of around the courtyard needs to be main­Physical Plant, the delay in turning on the tained properly fo~ the plant life. fountain was due to mechanical problems. The courtyard functions as a meeting 
The j problem is now solved, and the place for the students. Students gather to students can enjoy the one beautiful decor talk over homework or about. a recent exam on the IUSB campus. they have taken. Other activities include 
The coUI'tyard, sine~ it was conpleted in meetings of the IUSB's Publication Board. · 1972, has been used greatly by many IUSB An outing by the library staff was staged in students for various reasons and activities. the court this summer. Some students enjoy During the summer, the courtyard's eating their lunch outside. fountain has been used for wading, a place Recently the courtyard furniture was to put laundry· soap, er-iust to gaze into it repaired. Car said some of the furniture and think about memorable thoughts. needed paint or minor repairs. 
Carr expressed concern for students who Turtles from the St. Joseph river come to wade or dangle their feet in the pool. He the courtyard for the shade and the lush ~id the water was filled with chemicals for plant life that grows there. Box turtles are algea control. the most common. 
"!really wish they would not put their feet In addition, some porfessors use the court into the water. I'm afraid some people may as a classroom'. be alergic to the chemicals," said Carr, . The courtyard has many. functions and "How~ver, I would not· make a· case ·out ·of· with the fountain the beauty and it." . peacefulness is enhanced. 
IUSB's annual Writer's Conference will begin next week, featuring four professional writers from ·four different fields. 
Tom Williams will be in charge ofthe article writing. Williams teaches Mass Comminications at IUSB and will be the consulting publisher of IUSB's PREFACE next academic year. 
Miriam Gilbert will head the writing for children conference. She is an author, editor, agent,and publisher. She has written for children's magazines such as Jack and Jilland Highlights for Children, for religious magazines such as The Friend andChristian Herald, and she has been honored with the 
Brotherhood Award by the National Con­ference of Christians and Jews for Best Magazine Fiction of the Year 
Many of her books are used in schools and 

libraries and have been translated into 
several foreign languages. As a literary· ·:Bl_ack Jesus" won the Frances Steloff agent she specializes in working with new f1chon award for 1969. He has worked on the write~s. ,editorial staff of the Saturday Evening Post 
IUSB ·Players Guild stages Gersh'Win znusical 
"Gershwin and Friends", presented by the IUSB Players Guild, offered an ex­cellent evening of musical entertainment. As the first entire student production at IUSB, it offered Gershwin fans a stimulating and refreshing rendition. 
Formed as a student theatrical workshop organization in January, 1972, with the cooperation and gridance of the Theatre 
I.U. faculty, the IUSB Players'Guild is one of the most active student organizations on campus. 
The Players' Guild was established to give theatre students the opportunity to design, direct, and perform in shows other than major Theatre I.U. productions; op­portunities that allow them to grow along with their "regular" theatre work. And through the development and dedication of its members, the Players' Guild has produced eighteen student shows, including -along with plays -dance and im­provisation workshops. Many of these productions are staged at the height of lunch hour·rush, making free entertainment easily accessible to IUSB students, faculty, and staff. 
The sets and the costumes worked the black and white color scheme throullhout. 

One of the best poets in America today, John Woods will head the poetry workshop. His distinctions include the Borestone Poetry Award and the Theodore Roethke Prize of Poetry Northwest. 
His poems have appeared in several major journals and anthologies and have been recorded by university libraries ·and the Library of Congress. His fifth book, TURNING TO LOOK BACK, POEMS, 1955­1970, was published in 1972. He lived his early years in Indiana, and though he now teaches creative writing at Western Michigan University, he returns frequently to the state, this spring as Visiting Professor of English at Purdue, and in June for his second conference as leader of the poetry workshoo. 
Peter Leach will head the fiction 

workshop. He has appeared in Prize Stories 1974: THE 0. HENRY AWARDS, in BEST LIT_TLE ~AGAZINE FI0'10N 197_1, and in ·various literary magazmes. H1s story 
The silver studded black ladders were also cleverly used as props, making the Straus waltz scene both artistically and comically unique. The co tumes set the .t.!l_ne, for the thirties. 
The show was vocally weak in parts; but overall energy made up for this. The only negative thing about the whole show was that the "orchestra" played too loudly. The whole cast complemented itself making for well-paced, well-rounded show. 
There were some excellent performances by certain individuals. Craig Santa emerged as the all around best song and dance man of the show, singing, dancing, and clowning his way around the stage in a style reminicent of Gene Kelly. Kris VanNamee offered her usually good comic performance in the "By Straus" number. Laura Beyer and Marty Turner sang beautifully in their respective solos and Ms. Beyer showed her comic side in a cute minute pantomime. The other individual performances in the different mucical, dance, and comic areas of the whole cast were overall quite good yet too numerous to mention. 
The IUSB Players Guild deserves a standing ovation for its first all-student effort with "Gershwin and Friends". 
and as a feature writer for the Middletown Press and Canal Line Times in Connecticut. 
Developed by the Department of English 
and the Division of Continuing Education, 
the goal of the conference since its begin­
ning three years ago has been to bring 
writers together in a creative atmosphere. 
The Writer's Conference's motto is "the 
survival of a nation depends on the culture it 
leaves behind." 
During the first three evening of the 
conference, the students from all four 
workshops will gather to hear readings from 
the workshop leaders and to discuss their 
own work. The main subject will be the 
Writers' market. This will help to provide 
the students with information on how to get 
their work published and where. 
A one day seminar on Hyper­
Communication: The Information 
Overload, will be the topic probed by ·Williams on June 26, 9:30-3:30 pm. 
According to Williams the electronic 
media subtly change what they report and 
can trun an occasion into a crisis by altering 
perception of events. 
Davidson nanted to three year editorship 
J. Denneth Davidson, Sociology, has been named to a three year term as one of the Associate Editors of the Journal of Marriage and the Family, published by the National Council on Family oRelations. He has been selected to make a luncheon presentation on "Female Sexuality and the Gynecologist:: A 'Generational' Gap in Modern Medicine" at the 
ann1,1al meeting of the National 
Council on Family Relations at 
Salt Lake City, Utah, in August. 
Jon D. Ringen, Philosophy, has 
been awarded a $4,300 Research 
Fellowship by the National Science 
Foundation for support of a project 
entitled "Methodological Studies 
in Linguistics and Psycllology." 
He will be investigating the use of 
linguistic intuitions of native 
speakers of a given natural 
language in evaluating theories in 
transformational generative 
linguistics, conceptual analysis of 
the sort sought by analytic 
philosophers, and psychological 
theories concerned with the rule­
guided behavior of human beings. 
Joseph M. Ross, Chemistry, has 
Tom R. VanderVen, director of the con­
fernce, said there is space still available for 
applicants to apply. Applicants will be 
accepted to the conference only on the 
submission of manuscripts "which show 
promise of a developing competence in 
writing." 
"The Writing Conference serves mainly 
two purposes," said VanderVen. "Students 
come in contact with professional writers 
and students come in contact with each 
other. They can critique each others 
writing.•• 
According to VanderVen, it will be 
possible to register late if space in one of the 
workshops is open. Each workshop is ' limited to 20 participants. Leach and Gilbert are new to the workshop conference. 
Since the workshops will mainly critique 
the submitted manuscripts of the students, 
there will be no extra work for those who are 
taking it for credit, according to Van­
derVen. 
Additional information on the conference 
may be obtained from VanderVen or the 
conference brochures. 
received a $6,700 grant from thhe National Science Foundation to purchase a nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer for the lUSB Chemistry Laboratory. The grant is part of $45,000 in N.S.F. grants to the Indiana University system for equipment to improve undergraduate science education. 
Patrick J. Ryan, Mathematics, is co-author with Ronald A. 
Goldstein, of the University of Notre Dame, of two articles. "lnfiniesimal Rigidity of Sub­manifolds" was printed in the March edition of the Journal of Differential Geometry. "Rigidity and Energy"was carried in Global Analysis and Its Applications'Vol. II <International Atomic Energy Agency, Vienna, 1974). 
Milad A. Tawadros, Economics, has been awarded international travel support by the Universtiy Committee on the Overseas Conference Fund. He will attend the "Stimulation '75" conference late this month in Zurich 
Switzerland, and will present papers there. 
Thursday , Jun4! 19, 1975 


Shull discusses U.S. Science 
Is America's golden age of·; science 

beginning to tarnish'? Is our international 
leadership role in scientific reseat·ch slip­
ping away'? 
There art! indications that this may be 
the case, according to an 
Indiana umversily DlOOIIUngton scientist 

and administrator. Harrison Shull, vice 
chancellor for research and develapment 
and dean for research and advanced 
studies, described in an interview what he 
sees happening: 
"Before World War I, American science was non-existent. Between World War I and World War II, our efforts in the field of scientific research were small and not in­ternationally known. From 1945 until the present has been the golden age of American science. 
"During this period we have seen new 

inventions and new divelopments. We have 
seen Nobel Prizes awarded to our scientists. 
The federal government has followed through with extensive support for development of scientific research ... 
"American scientists used to go to Ger­many to study; then German and other European scientists and scholc.rs began coming to this country to study. Now I think the Germans are catching up. The Swiss and the Swedes are working very hard. The Russians, if they became more efficient, would outclass us by a factor of four or five." 
Dr. Shull, who in internationally 

recognized for his work in theoretical 
chemistry, recently returned from a 
meeting with Soviet Union scientists in 
Moscow. He was invited to join a group 
from the National Academy of Sciences, 
which met with members of its Soviet Union 
counterpart to discuss exchange 

agreements and mutual problems. 
With the coming of detente and the changing of the world, the exchanges have blossomed in many directions during the past five years, Dr. Shull said. There are so many people involved now in exchange of scientists, scholars, students, and others that the United States' science attache in the Soviet Union requires a computer to keep track of the exchanges, he said. 
It was the growth and directi6n of the exchange program that the American scientists wanted to discuss. They felt it was time for change in the character of the exchange program. 
"We were delighted to find that they (Soviet Union scientists and academicians) came to the meeting with much the same ideas and supported the things we were talking about. Our relations have been first rate. They have been very cooperative and very pleasant in our contacts with them." 
How does fundamental research in this country compare with what is being done in the Soviet Union? It would be hard to make a definitive comparison, but Dr. Shull ~ade these observations: 
"It is my impression that the Soviet Union 
is putting much more into fundamental 
research than we are in this country. Here 
at I.U., we do a lot of fundamental research, 
but I don't think were'doing as much on the 
national level as we should. 
"In the Soviet. Union, the Academy of 
Sciences is a governmental organization 
with a number of institutes, each 
specializing in a particular field of research. 
Everything that is done through the 
academy is called fundamental research. 
When I was there they estimated that they 
have something like a million people in­
volved in research and at least 300,000 of 
that number are in fundamental research." 
Germany has its Max Planck Institutes 
(named for a famous theoretical physicist). 
These are large governmental laboratories 
separate from the universities, somewhat 
like our Brookhaven National La~ratory, 
Dr. Shull said. 
In Sweden, institutes concerned w)th research in the fields of chemistry,; ohy: ~cs, and otber branches of science are h ~atekt in a unh ersity setting and are suppqrted large!~ . by the government thrqilgh the univen ities. 
"Thib doesn't occur here in tht United States," Dr. Shull pointed out. "We have to forage for our money for different kinds of ~rograms. Only by summation of thousands of little programs do we get a picture of the total research scene at one American university." 
The British system of support for scien­tific research is "forward-looking," Dr. Shull believes. A grants commission, pretty much politically independent, gets a large appropriation directly from the govern­ment. The commission then distributes the money on the basis of peer review of projects for which support is sought. 
In this country, there are two things going against fundamental research support from the government, Dr. Shull believes. He cited ridicule by some congressmen of federally funded research projects because of their titles. 
Another problem, he said, is government 
intervention and control through various 
regulations. An entire project can be shut 
down and money cut off for infringement of 
some regulation concerning animal care, 
affirmative action, occupational safety, and 
other requirements that go with accepting 
federal money, he said. 
1~---------------------­
I 
I 


I 
Cavalier
I I 
I 

I Camera 
I I Scottsdale
I 
I I next to
I I Bishop's
I 
I 
I I I 9
I I I 5 
I1 I 
I 
and 

0 pe 
p m pm 
Mall 
Buffet n T iI I Even in g s. 
Sunday 
Camera 

Darkroom Supplies 
-------,---~------~ 
IUSB Honors Programplanned for Fall 

An honors program tor students at Indiana University at South Bend will be launched in the fall semester. 
The Honors Program is designed to provide opportunities for out­standing students to employ their academic talents at a level warranted by their abilities and 
interests.  
Special  courses,  tutorials  and  
independent-study  opportunities  
will  be  arranged  to  present  

students with intellectually challenging coursework. 
Admission to the IUSB Honors Program is open to all qualified 
. students without restriction as to division, major subject or class standing. P11rt-time as welli8Sifull­time students will be a~mitted. 
Freshman entering IUSB who are interested in the Honors Program should submit Scholastic Aptitude Test <SAT) scores, Furlong said. A number of scholarships and financial-aid opportunities are available for honors students. 
Information and application forms are avialable f~om Dr. Furlong's office in Northside West 

············•············•··•···········•···••··••••···•········· 
24 H 
~~ 0(/ 
~ 
I /0 "' \ 
J & J GRILL ~ 
jP
M 
,327 N. MICHIGAN 
'I 
u 
N
11am-11pm
s 'B 
I Daily Dinner Specials.,~ A 
c 
"'-. .· only $1.49'' L /' /

D A '{ S ..,•••..•••.•••..•....•.•.••............•....•••..•....•.•.••••.•• 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

I.I 
SUMMER SERIES for Adults &~NO Young People llnLE THEATRE (Moreau Hall, St. Mary's College)SMC· AIR CONDITIONED THEATRE Phone: 284-417 6SUMMER 1975  
SUBSCRIPTION SERIES SPECIAL RATE: Four Plays $9.50 Regular rate $2.75 each  
SLEUTH , ...Area premiere of Shaffer's tense mystery June 20, 21, 27,128 at 8:00P.M. INHEniT THE WrND Lawrence and Lee's dramatic account of the trial of the century in celebration of the country's !99th birthday July 4, 5, 11, 12 at 6:00 P.M. ARMS AND THE MAN Bernard Shaw's delightful romantic comedyJl.'!r H!, 19, 25, 26 at e:oo P.M. TEN NIGHTS IN A BARROOM A musical version of William Pratt's famed 19th ~entury temperance melodrama July 31, Aug. 1, 2 at 8:00P.M.  
THEATRE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE • • Participatory Plays for the Young" • JACK AND THE BEANSTALK (Weds. & Sots.) June 25, 28, July 2, 5, 9 at 2:00P.M. TALES FROM MOTHER GOOSE (Weds. & Sots.). July 12, 16, 19, 23,26 at 2:00P.M. THEAll~ FOI YOUNG PEOPU-ALL SE~J1.75 __  

SPECIAL GROUP RATE AVAILABL"! P~~R GR0 UPS OF 2~ OR ~<;>RE 
5 

1 
Thursday , June 19, 1975



The Workin of the
Opening of Shakespeare Film •

Subway umn·1 
by Sue Zwick

Festival termed successs 
Production Manager 
"Standing Room Only" conditions prevailed last Monday evening at the opening of the Summer Shakespeare Film Festival as over 500 people squeezed into the new Elkhart "Y" Auditorium for Franco Zeffirelli 's THE TAMING OF THE SHREW. 
"Unfortunately we are allowed to show each film only once," said N.D. English Professor Paul Rathburn, Director of the Festival, "but we are able to enaarge our seating capacity. I hope those turned away from the SHREW will come to see A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM this Monday (June 23)' But I hope they come early." 
The film series is made pOssible by a grant awarded to Dr. Rathburn by the National EEndowment for the Humanities through the Indiana Committee for the Humanities. Two unique features of these "summer evenings with Shakespeare" are that (1) they are open to the public free of admission charge, and (2) that after each film those who attend have the ootion to participate in organized group discussions of the· film just seen. Those who do so can react and respond to Shadespeare's plays "on the spot." Discussions are facilitated by Notre Dame and Elkhart area teachers including: Mr. James Boyle and Mr. Van Young (Elkhart), Dr. James R Robinson, Mr. Nicolas MDurso, Mr. Gregory Mar­shall, Dr. John Meany and Dr. Rathburn <all of Notre Dame), Ms. Marjory Shelley, Ms. Mary Kusbach (of South Bend), and Ms. Virginia Ferro (Elkhart). 
Discussions range from the film as film, to the film as a modern adaptation of Shakespeare's art, to the contemporary questions-and issues Shakespeare's-plays What is a "Subway Alumnus?" raise and the many ways in which The explaination, written by Ara Par-Shakespeare is "our contemporary." (Over seghian states; 100 members of Monday's opening night "For years Notre Dame played in New audience chose to saay on to join in the IYork, and thousands of fans ... came to the discussions which ran just under one hour.) field via subway. They cheered the team for Dr Rathburn stresses that the discussions j' its fighting spirit and made Notre Dame a 

are strictly. optional. 
"For those able to attend all of the films," added Dr. Rathburn, "this is a unique way to observe how a series of superb film directors handle the special problems inherent in the adaptation of Shadespeare to film. Peter Brook's approach to KING LEAR is as much different, for example, from Zeffierlli's ROMEO AND JULIET as can be imagined. Zeffirelle was trained in the opera. We expect his films to feature incomparable sets, costumes, music and color. Brook's grim vision of LEAR, on the other hand, dictated a stark use of black and white and a setting so barren and bleak as to suggest either a workd long before Christ, or a wirlf after atomic destruction. Peter Hall's imaginative approach to A MID­SUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM, on the other hand, ranges from almost 'plain' realism in the opening scenes, to the totally dream-like beauty of a 'a forest near Athens' where the world is controlled by magic and faries. In the capable hands of Roman Polanski, MACBEATH becomes a filmed nightmare of almost unparalleled screen violence and horror. Taken as a whole, the series also features a series of five individual acting performances by Diana Rigg, Ian Holm, Richard Burton, Paul Scofield, Nicol Williamson and .the others." 
The schedule for the remainder of the series is: 
June 23 -A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM. Starring Diana Rigg and the Royal Chakespeare Company, directed by Peter Haii 
(7:00 PM -Elkhary "Y" Auditorium)' 

June 30-ROMEO AND JULIET. Starring Olivia Hussey, directed by Franco Zeffirelli (7:00PM -Elkhart "Y")' 
July 7 -HAMLET. Starring Nicol Williamson, directed by Tony Richardson ((7:00PM· Elkhart "Y">. 
July 14--MACBEATH. Starring Francesca Annis, directed by Roman Polanski (7:00PM -Elkhart "Y"). 
July 21 • KING LEAR. Starring _Paul Scofield, directed by Peter 
Brook (7:00PM Cinema I Theatre, Elkhart(. 
ImaY have 
agood job 

part of their lives .. .I have met thousands of 
' fans who love Notre Dame, but have no ties with it except through the games they follow." 
Ara's letter was part of an invitation sent to non-graduates all across the country, to become a "Subway .Alumnus"and people responded. The letters came back; 
·· "I am interested in joining the Subway Alumni; I have been an Irish fan since the day I was born. There are only two ob­stacles that kept me from attending Notre Dame, money and IQ, mostly the latter." 
"Please send me the information as how to join, I would deem it an honor to become a part of the Notre Dame family." · "We are just crazy about Notre Dame, and feel like a family because our son at­tends, but this Association sounds great to us." 
"I am writing to you in hopes that you might be able to put me in touch with the appropriate persons in charge of the "Subway Alumni" Association. Go Irish! ! ! " 
These letters, and many others, were recieved by Father Robert Rioux, Director of the Annual Fund, Public Relations and Development, and the man who instigated the Notre Dame Subway Alumni. He pioneered the program as an effort to unite the already-existing Booster Clubs across the nation, and to give the thousands of ardent Notre Dame fans an opportunity to get involved in the school itself. 
He stated, "I thought we should do 
something special for these people, make 1 them part of the University." · Father Rioux said that Notre Dame exists 
as a "model force" in a sea of other school who refuse to take a stand. He felt that leaders like Father Hesburgh are looked up ,to by people who hold Notre Dame as a .symbol of the past traditions and the future of Catholic ideals. 
The letters came to Father Rioux from all parts of the nation; some were written on notebook paper, others typed on office stationary. Many of the people who wrote never recieved an invitation to join; they had read about the organization in the Chicago Tribune, the Observer, local papers and church bulletins. 
"The University is built with the devotion of people who've never been here," said Fr. Rioux. He felt that the organization gives people who've never been to college an 
. opportunity to get involved in a school they are already interested in. Some letters expressed just this sen­timent; 
"My husband has been one of the most ardentfans ofthe schOQlfor years ... Roy has never been to college, but couldn't love the school more." 
"I have a friend who is an avid fan of well understood by graduating seniors Notre Dame. He is not college seeking jobs. 
· · 
•.,..,~..._._,The ~uture 
a

.,.,........_._ plans for the organization 
r . £.ARING are m the early stages, and depe!l
for you. 

r. :16lent on the ,numbers of people who ~ N I !('respond. The major considerations 
Now App 
In fact, the Army has over 300 different jobs you 
!:i ~ are away game foot~
I 
could apply for and probably get. 

I'! • ~ tickets, and ''on campus" days for 
If you qualify, we'll guarantee your choice of job 
= the group. Ideas often come from
u ~

ALBATROSS ~
training in fields like construction, computer pro­gramming, intelligence, electronics, communications, 
I
I D 

or many others. We'll pay you a starting salary of $344.10 a month 
I 

(before deductions). With a raise to $383.40 after 
j! ~'"!!"!!"­
4 months. We'll also give you a chance to travel. Get a head start on college through in-service educational oppor-· 
THE WHIT. E HOUSE 
tunities. With the Army paying up to 75% of your tuition. If you're interested, give me a call. You'll not only· 
I -WITH DAILY SPECIALS ­be doing a good job for yourself. You'll be doing one for your Country. 
MOrt. & WED. "DRINK & DROWN"
I
:..

!:i JUESDAY "TEQUILA NIGHT"
Call Armv 
!:i 

I'! THURSDAY "PITCHER BEER NIGHT"
Sgt. Bills Sgt. Dipietro 
"L·A:niES NIGHT·''

SUNDAY u
Sgt. Williams 232·1616 2839 N. 5th NILES
Join the people who've joined th-: A~m.y. 
graduate ... he would really be pleased and thrilled if he could be enrolled." 
"Please enroll me in the Subway Alumni Club, because I want Notre Dame to win over all ... 1wish 1 were an Alumnus of Notre Dame -1 never had the opportunity to at­tend college anywhere, let alone N.D.... " 
Although the emphasis appears to be from the sports aspect, the Subway Alumni is not just a group of football fans. The newsletter, recieved by the members, will contain news items, information on education programs, athletic events and student life at Notre Dame. 
The biggest problem, Fr. Rioux feels, is 
not triggering interest in the organization. 
The interest is there, as evidenced by the 
letters his office has recieved. He feels its 
reaching the people, informing them about 
the organization. "If they're not interested, 
they're not going to join," he said. 
The role of the students in the 
organization is simportant. By instilling an 
interest, and by representation of the 
school, the students are the public's direct 
link,to Notre Dame. Before school ended in 
May, Fr. Rioux tiad sent a letter to each 
student asking for recommendations of 
people they felt might be interested. The 
response was poor. The reason, Fr. Rioux 
believed was poor advertisement and 
misinterpretation, "The students really 
didn't know what it was about," he added, 
"I'd like to try it again once school starts." 
The annual dues charged for each 
member of the Subway Alumni is fifteen 
dollars. For the sum, the new applicant 
recieves a subscription to the Subway 
Alumni Newsletter describing events at 
Notre Dame, a membership decal and a 
personal certificate attesting membership 
in the organization. Themembership fee is 
considered a contribution toward the school, 
according to the information pamphlet. 

When asked what the money was actually· 
used for, Fr. Rioux explained getting the 
Subway Alumni into the organization 
creates a new for~ of revenue, a type of 
public support needed for a provate 
educational facility. He stated that once the 
money was channel ed into the general 
funds, he felt it would increase the students' 
financial benefits, and effect the general 
cost of education. He emphasised that 
tuition only pays 45-50 percent of the real 
cost of education, and that private con­
tributions are the main source of financial 
support. The Subway Alumni, as a 
recognized organization, would be a vehicle 
for this type of public benifice. 

"If we could get a large enough, we could 
have a tremendous impact," he stated. "If 
we could set up a scholarship, that would be 
fantastic." 

He felt that the students will benefit not 
only from the financial aspects, but by in­
viting a larger group of people to become a 
part of Notre Dame, the students will have 
increased opportunity to meet a greater 
cross-section of people who already are 
interested in their school. The amount of 
contacts will be broadened, a consideration 
the people themselves, as one man ~ writes;1 "I have for years cheered for ole ~ Notre Dame, but did not graduateS there, I now wear a Subway f! Alumni jacket that I get much 
I
~::~~a;~~:.c~ym;~i~!~~~~~ 
~:~~t~~-~s one that says Detriot 
· The interest is evident; the
I organization sells itself. People 
want Notre Dame, and they want 

to become a part of Notre Dame. A 
mue difficult to believe, especially 
for those of us who are students, 

and who get so entrapped in the 
pressures and academics of the 
school, we fail to realize what 
Notre Dame really offers us. Those 
people know it. And they'll become 
subway alumni to prove it. 

-----------------.. 
, nursday , June 19, 1975 

Ca~npin,g 
by Bob Kissel 
Dreams are strange, they 
sometimes have an uncanny knack 
of coming true or foretelling some 
distant or not so distant event. As 
my dream life is not that exciting, 
and when this vivid montage came 
to me one night, it was worth 
remembering. 
1 dreamt that upon hiking in the 
north woods with my sleeping bag, 
tent, clothing, and food on my back 
that every inch of what was once 
woods was covered with a blanket 
of rusty and old , shiny and new 
beer cans. And what was worse, 
setting my emotions almost to the 
edge of paranoia, was that the cans 
were being spewed out by human-
like Winnebago campers, while 
merrily blasting out some formless 
Top 40 mislabeled hit. 
My dream is probably a close 
approximation of most people's 
camping-wilderness-primitive 
experience. After many years of 
such weekend camping, putting up 
with overcrowded camping 
grounds, I decided enouJ;(h was 
enough. 
If you've been camping, even in 
the remote parts of Wisconsin, this 
in the N orth\_.Woods 
the chipmunks rustling and the closest town in Grand Marais, birds flitting about--comes Mr. Minnesota, a distant 35 miles from Modern Camper himself, wheeling our base camp on a friend's island. in his brand new sparkling clean Our camping area was collec­Winnebago. This is the Winnebago tively the Boundary Waters Canoe with the kitchen, color TV, extra· Area <BWCA). If you're looking powerful radio antenna (to pick up for a place free of beer cans, a WLS in Chicago), and probably place where humans are out­ice-maker in the built-in bar. Ah numbered by the animals, and a the wilderness experience ... for place where the quiet is almost only ten thousand, slightly higher scary to city-folk, the BWCA is the in the West. place. 
Don't get me wrong, Winnebagos The Boundary watershed area is are very stylish and they probably not meant for your average will figure keenly in President weekender, bent on getting back to Ford's economic revival plan, but nature. There are no convenient the types who buy such house-on-stores, no beer places, no hot and wheels is everything that the cold showers. Canoes are the only wilderness experience is not! The means of transportation, with the forest was not designed by Mother exception of one motor route; but Nature for people who come in then who wants to carry a heavy with the screaming kiddies, beer-motor between lakes, in addition to influenced loudness, one thousand the canoe? And after all, motors double-mantle Coleman lanterns, leave the ecosystem changed, not and component stereos. All this temporarily, but permanently. 
and more seems to be just part of the Winneba~o package trip. 
After all, which we, as humans, are too painfully and too slowly learning, that man is not nature, but another component of the 
situation can be appreciated. The complex web of nature. Man has a sincere campers arrive at the right to enjoy his forests, lakes, park and find a nice sylvan, quiet, and streams, but so do the bears, restful site. With tent pitched, wolves, and fish. wate~ ~il~ng o~ the open fire, . Last week a few friends, all yessir this IS the hfe away from the diehard, but sick of noise campers, heat and race of the city. left the madding crowd and headed 
Breaking the magnificent north. Way north, about four miles melange of sounds in the forest-south of the Canadian border. The 
The Now Socl.ety 
_ 


They're changing Eng I ish 45 to Communication f e·chniques 232, Chaucer to Erica Jong and me to tape. 
Visit the ·House Of Something Better 
1602 S. MICHIGAN St. s.s. 287-5310. 
Large Variety Of Health Foods including non-meat 
protiens. 10% discount on all 
vitamins and food supplements this week with -~niv~rsity I.D. 
' t 

Unlike Lake Michigan accessible by many avenues, th~ hundreds of lakes in this beautiful area of northern Minnesota take the sweat-of-the-brow thing to get into it. You see the big lakes which border the Bunflint Trail, the only road into the area, don't have very good fishing. It's the inland lakes, far from civilization which are teeming with big walleyes and northerns. 

For the outdoors nut who wishes only to be a part of the whole scene and not leave his ugly human 
mark, the 8/f':::A is paradise, whether city dweller or area native. But. ..even this far north there are those who would and are actively trying to develop this primitive area for personal greed-­-money. 
Up at the north end of the Gunflint, still in Minnesota, a native resident decided to cash in his chips, land. His land is going to 

be developed for condiminium 1 building, just inside the edge of the B This wise person, with , his cohorts Mr. Big City Developer and the county attorney (no con· flict of interest there?), have defied anyone to prove there will be substantial environmental P.ffects on the area. 
No group or individual has really fought this final assault on nature, not even the young, hip drqpollt' from college and society in the area. One of them said that "I came here to get away from all that greed and money-grubbing"' <and what else?) 
THE POSTE~ACE 
100 11x17 POSTERS ONLY $9. lO 
INSTY PRINTS 
~03 N. MAIN ST. SOUTH BEND 289-6977 


FOR A SPECIAL OCCASION ( OR FOR NO REASON AT ALL ) SAY IT WITH FLOWERS or GIFTS 
from WYGANT FLORAL co. INC. 317 LWW SOUTH BEND 232-3354 1 


THIS WEEKEND 
AT 

NICKlE'S 
Dance to ..QARTET" (Formerly ..TANGlEWOOD"J 
Every WED., FRI., & SAT. From 10:00 p.m. to 2:00a.m. Every Weekend This Month 
'-NO COVER­-NO INCREASE IN PRICE­FREE PARKING -A&P LOT 
928 N. EDDY, ·s.B. 
(Just a Few Blocks South of NO) 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES IPERSONA~S, 
married couple needed for live-In 
Big A and Dr. Daddy; People used to 
houseparents for foster home. 
pay you for your advice, eh? Wadda
Salary. Wrlte:P.E.P. Inc. 3012 S. 
I owe ya?

' Twyckenham, So. Bend, Ind. ~14 
Miss Adventure Interested In no-frills low cost let 
dear mom & dad zwlck,travel to Europe, Africa, Middle I love you end miss you much. emEast, Far East at minimum cost, working herd end think of you often. 
maximum flexibility and minimum vour daughter ­hassle? For Information cell me.
EDUCATIONAL FLIGHTS toll free 
.·
(800) 233-5569 
Deer· 'AI~ --Bill; Drip, Greg; ~. 
~.WANTED Mary, Mary, Mary, Marty, Nto, Nto, 

'Ride to New Jersey, Clerk, Rahway Mom, Murph, Terry Tom, Vel: 
leree. Can leave almost enytlne. Ha-e's the classified I promised. 
Share driving end expenses. 23<1-1819 I· C.S.mlth 
Classified Ads Get Results 

.... 
.. 
• 
.. 


Thursday June 19, 1975
12 the observer 


CHAR ISMAY ICS: SERIOUS PROBLEMS 
.. 
' ~ 
. 
t 
r 
~ 
t 
by Fred Graver i.ln the Jetter, Dr. Ford says that Baptism is not a necessity. mixture as being dangerous. , Bend has "defied both oUr bishop a book which she has written on the -the belief that the ability to ·There is a pervasive fun-and the parish priests ... stating Edltor-ID-Cblef Pentecostals, entitled penticostal I speak in tongues is essential for damentalism he claims, "that is that they have the "authority to 
A great deal of controversy hu poise i has been censored prtor to one to teach a seminar within a inconsistent, unacceptable, ar the exclude thos e who do not agree arisen in the last month within the publication by Ranaghan and charismatic group. community of Catholics." with their theology. They claim Notre Dame community over the Cardianal Suenens. The, -the belief that one must belong that they are not under the 
In the inte.rviewStorey cites

Catholic Charismatic Renewal book,according to Dr. For­to a prayer or covenant group . jurisdiction if the bisho[! be cause Movement, an organization that d, "makes n•o evaluative outside of one's own obligations to certain books and certain main thay are an ecumenial group." was once the home of many of ita statement, but describes two types the parish. figures in the movement that have 
leaders. Today, it is the focal point of Pentecostalism which I see In the letter, Dr. Ford challenges already caused embarassement 
for the beginnings of what may emerging within the United States. the statement that there is not an within the leadership because of a Drs Ford and Storey have both become a denominational scbiSJD. One type has adopted Aabaptist unfair mixture of Protestant and clash of views. Among th\!Se characterized the leadership of the tenets and is close to that which Catholic leaders in the CCRM by figures is David Wilkerson, author CCRM as being sincere, but being
In an interview in 

A.D. Correspondence a Dr. Storey describes: my own asking why no Catholic priest is on of The Cross and The Switchblade somewhat deluded by their belief magazine published on the Notre collation of their teaching is very the committee ·Of fiveamong the who once was regarded highly in that their every action is 
Dame campus, Dr. William G. gentle and fully documated. The eleven speakers amd prayer Catholic and Protestant factions, illuminated by the spirit. Storey, Director of the Graduate other type is wholly Catholic and I leaders for the Second National but who caused considerable 
difficulty _when he prophesied

Program in Liturgical Studies and praise this enthusiastically and Men's Shepherds Conference to be Dr. Ford wrote, 'their minds are one of the founders of the CCRM, so filled with desire :for power and expressed serious criticisms of the ..s.o tense emotionalJy that they 
movement, which he said should have reached the point where any be investigated. He characterized dissent from their tenets appears 
the CCRM as being presently de-to them to come from the devil."
1 

Catholicized. She suggested in her letter that the Among Storey's charges in the current leaders orf CCRM resign, interview were: to rest and reflect for two or three 
-an executive committee which years, before a schism does o c­is a closed, select, self­cur. perpetuating group. He accused 
them of a pattern of Dr. Storey characterized the authoritarianism which ''is rooted leadership as "so spirituallyin the fundamental notion of direct minded, they don't realizelthere is reliance on the inspiration of the : no protection against illusion and Holy Spirit, even in deciding ,. delusion." rt)utine. ordinary details." . 
1 

-expanding 'links between 1 .As .for the future of the CCRM,Catholic and Protestant both Drs. Ford and Storey see 
denominations in which "Catholics an inevitable schism developingbegin to drift away from what are though Kevin Ranaghan, in his important, legitimate styles of., statement, writes that "w ·a visiblyprayer rooted in their ownr paaced this movent under (thetradition, Holy Father's( direction at the 
In respanse to the charges made heart of the Church." by Dr. Storey,, a statement was issued by Kevin M. Ranaghan, a Dr. Ford said that the schism 
member of the national CCRM will take "longer than the time ;
Service Committee's side of the taken by the Refor­
·story 1 mation,"because of the' Churches 1Ranaghan refuted the charges permissiveness and leniencythat the CCRM was · a closed towards the Charismatics, and the 
:;·oup, stating that "the renewal is bishop's refusal to investigat into · broad, diverse, and considerably the charges made by those such as ·.1norganiz.ed movement."· Dr. Storey and herself.
Dr. Josephine Ford Dr. William G. Storey
The statement answered 

::harges that I occurance ~ of faulty ask that these groups be given held in september. ( Shepherd is a against Roman Catholicism, · This is a classic example of a teaching and pract'ice are representation on the Service Protestant term for bishop Dr. calling Rome "the whore of sect beginning," said Dr. Storey. widespreari. ongoing by saying Committee." Ford also •charges that leaders of· Babylon." "The leaders would like to see this 
that, "they have been dealt with by Dr. Ford says that Cardinal the CCRM will be associating In her letter Dr. Ford outlines not happening, but I think that the national Service Com-Suenenes has given Kevin-themselves with to Protestasnt another aspect of the complex there 1a is an impetus in the mittee... iritelligently r, respon-'Ranaghan authority to broadcast, fundamentalism ministers who issue of ecumenism. She claims movenent which is going in the sibley and in conformity with the a statement disparaging the oook are nationally y known exorcists. that the ·PentecostalRrouo inSouth other direction.'' he said. Catholic tradition." a11d her character if she should One of the more complex isssues 
"Ranaghan stated that the circulate ror publish any part of the in the CCRM controversy is the CCRM is open for ' "conservative book. ecumenical nature of the constructive cnucism," and that it Also in the letter, Dr. Ford Protestant and Catholic groups w1·ould continue to welcome relates an instance in which sh e withir. the Charismaic com­"theological , canonical, pastoral, went to the Communications mumitit:s. In the interview, Dr. 
~~c~p!~~~i? ee:!~!~!~:~ic~~ ;,:r:~ ~~~g f~il~e a~Tw:~ ~~o~yo:im~ th~! ·~~n~O:~}rt 
authority." informed that the tape was not for experience, the leadership of the 
The statement charged Dr. ·public use. Catholic Charismatic Movement Storey with making allegations Dr' Fore has forqaarded a letter has permitted and even en­"based on misinformation and to Stephen Clark, Chairman of th4· couraged a flow of literature impression rather than fact." Servoice Committee, a copy of a through the movemept which 
Finally, as an answer to the six page letteri to Bishop t Pursley promotes theological positions charges that the leadership of the asking for discussion of fifteen and religious attitudes which ' CCRM was imminently points of dubious teaching by the cannot be ~-econciled with the schismatic, Ranaghan stated, "It National leaders,, A mong the authentic Catholic tradition." is our conviction that trbe CCRM in points are: ·Although he sees the shariDgf general is characterized by a more -an implication in a publication between the two denoiminations as than average•. active fidelity, o~ ~e .Com~unication Centre's having some oositions effects,
1, loyalty andobedience to the Roman distribution list that sacramental Storey for the most part sees the Catholic Church in .hlerarcbical ' · · · ' authoruty 'sacramental life and spiritual tradition... The over­whelming majority of the'! par­
We turn

~199t ·puJ •pues y~nos
ticipants and leaders are deeply personally and total! committed 
~'"'Y puag ·os Z'OII 
ourselve.s 

to the Catholic Church." 
.~·""'O .,,.,,,P!O 
Kevin Ranaghan 's response was J.N~~~1v upside down answered by alatter written by Dr. 3:>tAnt lllv•• Josephine Gord, Associate .tn·iNO.I.IOJ.ow to please you 
Prof"""' \ill TheolOIIY at Notre ~)IAli~S OYOll ~~l"j / 
uame anll expelled member rof a·\I'J'\1) vL 
CCRM. Dr. Ford directly oon-• a:~n ~~M . .
qnl:> .

fronted Fanaghan's charges that ••1•w 1•0 · .....o:> '3 ATDICK'S the CCRM was open to con-~:~:~ ., .i"~ ~ 
structive criticism, that the . DIAI3S ~"-' 
10 PERCENT DISCOUNT 1
Communication Center of the ' ~,.. ~ 
TO N.D. AND I.U. CCRM has made all of its GMIII&S.· STUDENTS AND!
. !l.· 

SI)I)IG
materials open to any member of 
FACULTY.

the public who wishes to examine 
\iON.-SAT. 7am-llpm

tham, that the CCRM is not 
SUN. 9 am-9pm 

operating out of the hierarchy of the Church. 


-






