
--------------------------------------------------------------------~­
Receives honorary law degree at Convo~ation 
Ford discusses world poverty and peace 

by Terry Keeney Observer Editor 
The ultimate solution to world peace will depend on the ultimate resolution of the world poverty problem, President Gerald R. Ford said yesterday in an address to the Special Academic Convocation. 
Ford. speaking to an enthusiastic crowd of about 10,000 in the ACC yesterday morning, cited the need for in­terdependence among nations to foster· both solutions to problems of peace and hunger. 
"People throughout America realize that no structure of world peace can endure unless the poverty question is an­swered." I<'ord said. "There is no safety for any nation in a hungry. ill-educated and desperate world." 
For explained that the developing and developed countries are all part of a "single interdependent system". By realizing this interdependence, problems such as the food crisis can be solved. 
"The answers to the world food problem are to be found in interdependence," Ford said. "We can and will help other nations, but simplistic paternalism may do more harm than 
~ood." 
Ford proposed that nations help one another help them­selves. Praises Hesburgh 
Ford's speech followed the presentation to the President of an honorary doctor of laws degree by Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University president. Ford cited Hesburgh's role as a non-conformist in government and his efforts in the 
areas of amnesty and world hunger. 
by .Jim Eder ('ontributing Editor 
' 
President Ford conducted four informal mt·etings that were closed to the public during his stay on campus yesterday. 
I<'ollowing the Special Academic Con­vocation in the ACC. Ford met with from 80 to 100 faculty and students drawn prin­cipally from Notre Dame's Academic Council. Afterwards the President and his top advisors had lunch with and briefed some 40 news media executives from the Midwest. 
Ford later met informally with about 30 college and university presidents who were invited by the University to attend a lun­l'heon with I<'r. Hesburgh and U.S. Attorney Gt>neral Edward H. Levi. The President concluded his visit to Notre Dame with a working dinner with six regional governors. 
Acadt>mic rt>ct>ption 
At the academic reception following the Convocation Ford said. "I am grateful for the opportunity to meet with a governing body that is so broad based. I am suret~ey are more understarlding and cooperative than the Congress in most respects." 
The faculty present were the elected ml•mbers of the Academic Council. Students invited were members of tt:J Academic Council and members of the ( 'ollegl' Councils. Student Body President Pat !\leLaughlin and SBP-t>lelect Ed Byrne were also invited to attend with St. Mary's Legislative Commissioner Joanne Garrett. 
\1cLaughlin and Byrne had stated last 
week that they would not attend the 
reception in protest over the manner in 
which the University had selected the 
students to attend. Byrne, however, did 
ap\)(·ar and pr ·sen:. ·d J<,ord with a greenand vellow sweater as a gift from the Notre bame ski team. 
Government Professor Peter Walshe captured the President's attention and held a conversation with him in low, muted tones. Afterward, Walshe explained that he was Pxplaining why some of the students walked out of the President's speech. 
"This student body represents the finest flower of Christian conscience, and we considered it inappropriate for Fr. IIPsburgh to present Ford with an honorary degree." Walshe said. "Students are unha­PPY that President Ford has not shown a central concern for the poor, and they are unhappy of his refunding of the war in In­dochina." he stated. 
When asked what Ford's reaction was, 
Walshe said, "The President indicated that 
he understood our views." 
1\lt>eting with governors 
Ford attended a working dinner with six 
regional governors after his televised press 
conference at 6 p.m. Presidential Press 
Secretary Ron Nessen afterwards explained 
that the governors spoke mostly about their 
concerns for highway funds and jobs in their 
home states. 
Three of the five Republican governors in 
attendance, Otis Bowen of Indiana, William 
Milliken of Michigan, and Mills Godwin of 
Virginia. held a press conference after the 
dinner. 
Bowen stated that the most pressing 
problem that Indiana is facing is that fact 
that it "receives only 41 cents on every 
dollar of the federal gasoline tax, due to the 
present Congressional formula of chan­
neling that tax back to the states." 
Bowm said that a number of the gover· 
nors proposed that the federal government 
remove 2 or 3 cents of the tax per gallon and 
Ford described the role Hesburgh played in the President's recent decision to release two million tons of food to the developing countries. 
· • A faetor in my decision was your fine President Fr. Hesburgh, and you should be thankful that you have a person who has such broad interests as he, as the Prl'sident of your University," Ford said. 
Ford cited America's past role in supplying aid to the undeveloped nations through such programs as the Marshall Plan and the Food for Peace Act. But the problem of hunger today exists not in the Third World, but the Fourth World, where an estimated 400 m"illion to BOO million suffer from malnutrition. 
Dl'spite these problems, the economies of the developing countries have grown at an "encouraging rate" over the last 10 years due in part to American assistance. 
Bl.'vive· American values 
Ford argued that despite inflation and recession the United 
States must continue its foreign aid. 
"First, foreign aid is a part of the price we must pay 
achieve the kind of a world in which we want to live," he said. 
"Even with a recession, we remain the world's most affluent 
country and the sharing of our resources today is the right, 
humane and the decent thing to do," Ford continued. "And 
we will." 
Ford challenged his audience of University faculty, students and visiting Univertsity aod college presidents to 
help "in the revival of fundamental American values." didate in 1940, Ford praised the leaders of the last 40 years 
~e cm;npared _th~ world_ he faced as a 1935 graduate of the who have kept America out of a third world war. Umvers1ty of M1ch1gan w1th the world faced by the Class of "The prospects for long-range peace have slowly, but 1975. · ·(continued on page 11) 
server 
st. mary's college 
Tuesday, March 18, 1975 

Ca1nbodian aid defended; 
Ford-Rocky ticket upheld 
PRESIDENT FORD is welcomed on campus in the true spirit of St. Patrlck;s Day. 
President and advisors meet in informal sessions on campus 
by Tom Drape 
Editor-in-Chief 
Defending his support for aid to Cam­bodia with the "so-called domino theory", President Gerald R. Ford yesterday fielded guestions ranging from Cambodia to the '76 Veep candidacy of Nelson Rockfeller during a :lO-minute press conference in the Center for Continuing Education. Ford met with the national and local press as part of his 13­
to Notre Dame to receive an honorary doctor of Jaw degree. The President referred to the potential developments in Thailand, which may force 
U.S. forces to be withdrawn from that country and the Phillippines, where U.S. relations are being reviewed, as validating the domino theory. 
"If we have one country after another­allies of the United States-losing faith in our word, losing faith in our agreements with them. yes, I think the first one to go could vitally affect the national security of the United states," Ford said. 
When asked whether he would support an invasion of Cambodia as he did five years ago while in the House, he replied it was a hypothetical question which "he really couldn't answer." 
Ford also termed another question 'hypothetical' when he was asked to speculate on the possible student reaction at the earlier academic convocation if he had made a strong plea for Cambodia. 
Hockt>feller Candidacy 
Replying to the possibility of Nelson Rockefeller as his possible running mate in 1976, Ford said he saw "no reason what­sopver that the team should not be together in the campaign in 1976." 
"Nelson Rockefeller has been an ex­ceptionally active and able Vice President I said when I nominated him I wanted him to be a partner," Ford said. 

FR. THEODORE H ESBU RGH, "C. S.C., congratulates President Gerald Ford during the convocattion at which the University President awarded F~rd an honorary law d.HCH. 
Using the example of Wendell Wilkie, presidential can­
Plans for llt>sburgh? The President did not specify any future plans for Fr. Hesburgh, University president. in his administration but com­plimented him for his present "time­consuming responsibility" on the Clemency Board. He predicted Hesburgh and the entire Board would be pretty busy in the months ahead. "But, let me assure you and others that someone who has as much talent and tremendous civic interest, once that job is over. I think we can use someone like Fr. Hesburgh in many more responsibilities," Ford said. Earlier in the day Hesburgh had acknowledged Ford as being the first President in ten years to set foot on a "first rate university campus." At the press conference, Ford elaborated on his efforts to Pstablish better relations with the academic world by describing it as "a fine op­portunity to present a new concept that we have for higher education." "This is another opportunity on the Notre Dame campus-to continue that dialogue that I hope will not only expand but grow by leaps and bounds between the academic community and the Federal Government," the President said. Judging by the warm reception he received in the morning, Ford said he felt he was on "good footing" to expand better relations. He also cited his meeting in the afternoon with 15 area university and college presidents as another step "in this better rapport between the academic community and this Administration." Dt>gJ"t't', Protest Qut>stioned 
Attention was drawn to the small number of students who protested Ford's receipt of the honorary degree when the President was asked about his response to their 
(continued on page ;I) 


.--------~----------------------------------------~--------~-----------------------------------------~----­
-
• 
2 the observer 
world briefs 
DUBLIN (UPI) -Explosions and gunfire rocked the Irish Republic's Portlaolse top security jail Monday In! a new escape bid by hard core members of the outlawed Irish Republican Army, prison sources said. 
Troops and pollee sealed off all roads leading into th4! town, about 60 miles southwest of the capital. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -John 
D. Ehrlichman asked Monday for a new trial in the White House "plumbers" case on grounds he was not permitted to national security as a defense' and President Richard M. Nixon! did not testify. 
LISBON (UPI) -The 24-man revolutionary council created after last week's abortive coup met Monday to discuss a pending cabinet reshuffle which politicians said would shift greater power to the Com­munists. 
BARILOCHE, Argentina (UPI) -A military ground search team Monday reached the mountainside crash site of an Argentine air force transport plane and located the bodies of all 52 victims. 
LISBON (UPI) -President Francisco da Costa Gomes reaffirmed Monday the desire of Portugal's ruling military government to go ahead with the April 12 election amid reports of further natlonalintion moves. 
an campus today 
2 pm ··seminar, "compact heat 
exchange design," 303 eng. 
bldg. 
3:30pm ·· lecture, "kanp and 
young schelling," lib. lounge 
4:30pm ··seminar, "hormonal 'regulation of gene expression In cultured cells," gal. life aud. 
6 pm ·· lecture, "family com­
munications," carroll hall 
7:30 
pm ·· lecture, lntro to transcendental meditation, 115 o'shag 

7:30 
pm ·· lecture, "thomas merton," carroll hall 


7:30pm--lecture, "real guts of 
bldg. 
7:30-9:30 pm --dance, faculty 
lessons with fran demarko, $2, 
Iafortune ballroom 
8& 10 pm ·· film, last laugh, $1, 
eng. aud. 
10 pm --radio, talk with john 
macheca, bro. just and darlene 
palma (sic). wsnd-am. 
11:00 p.m -interhall hockey championship, dillon 'big red' against off-campus 'crushers' 
7:30 P.M. 
Ticket Prlc ..,, 
Bleachers .••....•.. $3.00 Lower Arena (end court> ...•..... $4.00 Lower Arena (side court> . . . . . . . . $5.00 Loge & Platforms ... $5.00 
Tuesday, March 18, 1975 

One ticket running 
St.Mary's SBP elections set today 
by Mary Janca  students have the option to vote for  
St. Mary's Editor  the ticket, or to place a check in the  
St.  Mary-'s  student  body  "no" box on the ballot.  A simple  
presidential and vice presidential  majority of 50 percent plus oneof  
elecitons will be held today in the  those ballots cast is required to win  
LeMans Hall lobby from 10 a.m. to  the election.  
6 p.m.  All students are urged to  In  its  platform,  the  ticket  
vote.  proposes to  "work as a  cohesive  
One complete ticket composed of  unit to  increase the efficiency of  
SBP hopeful Joan McDermott and  student government. This can  be  
Joanie  Durlacher  and  Mary  Lu  achieved  through  close  com­ 
Bilek,  candidates  for  vice  munication  and  cooperation  
presidents  for  academic  affairs  among ourselves  as  well  as  with  
and student affairs, respectively,  ·  the administration  and  faculty."  
is running for office.  The  three  noted  that  as  St.  
The election is uncontested.  Mary's is in a period of transition,  
According  to  election  rulings,  "it  is  important  that  student  
when  such  an  election  occurs,  concerns are not lost in the shu£­ 

Classroom robberies are 'under control' at SMC 
by Kathy Skiba 
Starr Reporter 

Anthony Kovatch, director of security at Saint Mary's College, announced yesterday that the situation involving a series of small thefts in Madeleva Memorial is "under control." 
The thefts, which occured in the large classroom and office facility, usually involved money but oc­casionally included personal property. Kovatch stated that they had been occurring off and on during the school year. 
Although Kovatch was not able to discuss the specifics of the crackdown on thefts, he noted, "In most cases the thefts occurred when doors to offices were inad­vertently left open." 
Kovatch stressed the importance 

Cambodian aid refused: $21.5 million available 
Washington <UPil-While Congress resisted President Ford's request for more military aid to Cambodia, the administration announced Monday it had discovered a clerical error that will give the war-torn nation an extra $21.5 million worth of weapons and ammunition without congressional approval. 
State Department spokesman Robert L. Funseth said govern­ment auditors have discovered that Cambodia was overcharged by $21.5 million for the military materials it recieved in fiscal 1974. 
Thus, he said, the United StateE will repay Cambodia with weapom and ammunition valued at tha amount. 
White House Press Secretary 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents <>f the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester (S16 per year) from The Observer Box· Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. Second class postage paia. Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6. 
Convocation Center 
DISCOUNT PRICES TO ALL NO & SMC STUDENTS, FACULTY, & STAFF. 
•.• $2.00 
... $3.00 
••. $4.00 ... ~4.00 


Ron Nessen told newsman in South Bend, Ind., that the an­nouncements that the United States owes Cambodia $21.5 million "does not change the President's $222 million request for extra' military aid for Phnom Pehn." 
The announcement came as the Senate Foreign Relations Com­mittee met to act on a proposal for $125 million in additional funds for Cambodia, for less than the $222 million which Ford requested. But even the smaller amount waE doubtful 
campus view 

of the faculty keeping their office doors locked, and suggested that women faculty carry their purses with them, and lock their purses in their file cabinets when this is not possible. 
Kovatch said that he was"reluctant to say that a student was responsible," explaining that in addition to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty, people from South Bend can also 
gain access  to  the building.  He  
also  stated  that  regular  and  
frequent  security  patrols  are  
conducted in Madeleva.  

Re-emphasizing that faculty should keep their doors locked, Kovatch cited that typewriters, calculators, and radios that are contained in offices often entice a potential thief. 
fie." With this as their goal, they plan to work in conjunction with thenew SMC President Dr. John Duggan, continues the platform. 
The platform states that each member of the ticket has had "extensive experience in student government." 
McDermott noted that she presently serves as junior class president and is involved in various committees such as the Accreditation Review Committee for the College, the Curriculum Committee, the Board of Gover-
Graduate Student Union 
Announces GENERAL MEETING MARCH 20, 1975 
LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
12:20 pm 


Open to the General Public 



IT'S LATERTHAN YOU THINK. 
On April 2, 1975 , time runs out for you to 
/
enroll in the 2-year Air Force ROTC Program on this campus. And here's what you'll be missing: 
• 
$100 a month, tax-free, during your junior and senior years. 

• 
the chance to win a full Air Force scholarship (including tuition, lab fees, the works). 

• 
a challenging job as an Air Force officer upon 

graduation. plus 

• 
a future where the sky is no limit. 


Contact capt. shepherd 
at Building 5, Telephone 6634 
(Available only to college juniors or students having at least 2 academic years left before graduation.) 
PUT IT ALL TOGETHER IN AJR FORCE ROTC 

CAMPUS 
VIEW 

0\JE ard TWO BIDROOM RJRNISHED APARTMENTS 
ic COMMUNITY BUILDING 
ic INDOOR SWIMMING POO! 
nance and-Student Affairs Com­mission. 
Durlacher, candidate for vice president for academic affairs, currently is a member of Student Assembly, the Faculty Evaluation Committee, and the Open-House Committee. 
Bilek, prospective vice president for student affairs, is now sophomore class president and member of the Board of Gover­nance. Last year, she served as a member of the Student Assembly and Regina Hall Council. 
A N~W APARTMENT COM­ic BASKETBALL COURT 
MUNITY DEVELOPED -FOR ic SHAG CARPET 
THE STUDENTS' OF NOTRE D.Al\IE & SAINT MARY'S. CAMPUS, ic 2 BATHS IN 2 BEDROOM AP'l' 
VIEW IS SET IN A WOODED ic ALL APPLIANCES COLORSURROUNDING YET IS ONLY 
COORDINATED ic SECURITY
3 BLOCKS. FROM NOTRE DAME. LOCATED .rusT ONE BLOCK 
ic 
SOUND CONDITION~D
NORTH OF STATE RD. 23 OFF OF WILLIS"RD. ic PRIVACY 
NOW RENTING FOR FALL SEMESTER 
( '75 -'76 SCHOOL YEAR ) FOR RENTAL INFORMATIO~ PHONE 272-1441 

Ford, governors discuss policies 
(l'ontimtt>d from page I) grants into block grants for the made no commitment." the working dinner wen Wisconsin, Ohio, and Michigan. states, and reduce the federal 4-Nessen stated that the Unem­Republicans Arch Moore of West The President's top administrative 
states reimpose that amount as a 
state tax. The revenue from which cent gasoline tax by about 2 cents. ployment Compensation Act has .. Virginia and James Rhodes of aides were present for the working the states could use for highway Milliken stated that his primary "been in effect for 52 weeks now Ohio,and Democrat Julian Carroll session, which was the fourth of its maintanance. The Indiana concern was the rate of unem­and has already been extended of Kentucky. kind to beheld outside Washington governor said that the President ployment that Michigan is twice. The President will have to Nessen pointed out that this was since Ford took office. The lun­seemed to support such a proposal. currently suffering. "I told the take a careful look at that the fifth such meeting that the cheon was closed, and no briefing 
Nessen pointed out that the high­President that is vitally important program, before extending it President has had with regional was made as to what was 
that the Unemployment Comp­again." governors, and the first at which discussed.
way proposal was not new. "It has · Godwin of Virginia said he ex­the Democrats were in a minority. The President's informal
been considered for along time, nensations Program be extended and a bill will be introduced in a for another 13 weeks," he said pressed his concern to the meeting with about 30 Midwest week or two that will call for a 1980 Milliken said that the President President that some means of llndisclosed meetings i college and university presidents 
completion of the interstate was "responsive to our concerns dialoguebeestablished between the was also closed, and no briefing system. combine categorical and understands the problem, but Atlantic coastal states and the Following the academic was made as to what was disuc­federal government concerning reception at noon, Ford hosted a ssed there or at the luncheon they the processs of locating new oil luncheon with some 40 editors, had with U.S. Attorney Gneral resources on the continental shelf. publishers and broadcast Levi, former president of the 

Other governors in attendance at executives from Indiana, Illinois, , University of Chicago. 
Press conference question 
Ford responds to criticism 
over the next few days he would allegations charging that the CIA
(l'ontinued from page I) 
decide "the best course of action discussed and carried out foreign
charge of insensitivity to the poor 
for the Rockefeller Commission" assassinations. 
and the war in Indochina. Ford 
which is investigating possible CIA The President was also asked 
defended his awareness of the poor 
involvement in foreign whether he would favor an in­
by referring to the budget he 
assassination plots. vestigation of such domestic ac­
recently submitted to Congress. 
tivities by the CIA to which he

The proposed budget provides "Let me say at the outset that reiterated a course of action would for an expanded Community this Administration does not be forthcoming over the next week. 
Development Act by over 1 billion condone, under any cir­Ford further announced an dollars and a $202 million bid for cumstances, any assassination upcoming judgement on whetherthe Older American Act. attempts," Ford said. He said he the Senate committee in­"We have proposed, and we will had been watching with "personal vestigating the CIA would receive support, a responsible program to attention" the stories and 
help the poor in this country. And I think the budget that I submitted in January does just that," Ford claimed. 
Ford described his speech earlier that day as being "aimed at 1 the broad concept that the United States must participate in world affiars" rather than focusing on Cambodia and Indochina. 
"The details can be dismissed, the details can be argued," Ford said, "but we need a restatement, a strong restatement of the broad general response why this country has to be a part of the one world concept."
EVEN FR. SORIN had a chance to participate in the St. Pat's Day 
festivities, as can be seen here by the Irish shamrocks that adorned Hockt>feller Commission 
his statue on the South quad. 
The President announced that 
Reverses prior stance 
Byrne meets with President 
radio station from Indiana did not attend.
T!'tTy Kt>t>ll!'y 
University contacted Byrne "Pat and I don't want ourOhs!'t'V!'t' Editor concerning unconfimred reports decision to be blown out of that his . refusal to attend the proportion." Byrne said. "It wasHeversing an earlier decision to 
Presidential function signified intended as a response to internal decline an invitation to meet with support of the walk-out drive. He conflicts at Notre Dame." 
President Ford. Student Body was also contacted by WNDU-FM According to Byrne, the meeting President-elect. Ed Byrne, 
on the same question. with the President lasted onlyyesterday met with the President To avoid any misrepresentation several minutes. Byrne did at an informal gathering of of his position on the walk-out, present the President with anstudents and faculty of the Byrne decided to attend the official sweater of the Ski Team, ofAeademic Council and College presidential event. McLauhglin which Byrne is a member.
Council. 
Byrne stated yesterday that he had decided to meet with the President when he learned that his 
decision not to attend had been misinterpreted by the press to mean agreement with the planned student walk-out. 
Byrne had originally decided to join current Student Body President Pat McLaughlin in his refusal to attend the informal gathering with the President. The two contended that the student group meeting with the President was not representative of the students. 
"I could never say the College Council was representative of the students." Byrne said. 
Bvrne first learned that his decision had been misunderstood yesterday morning. The student 
LITTLE MEXICO 
TACOS 0 Homemade ' .
CHILl -­
Delicious ,· 
CONEY DOGS 
Mexican Style 
SPAGHml 
D 
t 
[ CARRY-OUT 217-1130 I JMiliilai ld, ltlll... 
Ma 12-l ,....Ti 11-1131. fUll. ·11·11 
Pre-Law Society 


JUNIOR NIGHT 
Tues. March 18 
7:00 

Library Auditorium 
All Juniors interested in attending Law School should attend 

NOW APPEARING 
SPACE COAST KIDS AND 
LISTEN­
~S~ula ~ n·te Clut 
NO COVER CHARGE TUES·WED·THURS 
on U.S. 31 bttwMnJiies, So. B•d-Fr• Parkinc·683-USO. 
1 
j 1
, 
the observer Tuesday, March 18, 1975 
Student poll indicates 
Ford's speech labelled 'sale' 
by Katie Kerwin Starr Rt>porter 
There are probably as many different student reactions to President Ford's speech as there are students, but a random survey of Notre Dame undergraduates showed a general consensus that 
Ford  had  made  a  safe,  non­ 
controversial  and  somewhat  
predictable speech/.  

"He didn't say anything con­troversial. But then it wasn't supposed to be political, so I guess he played it safe," said Linda Doherty, an Arts and Letters fresh­
man. 
"His speech wasn't extremely bad or extremely good. He could have been more personal," said an Architecture student. "I really couldn't tell you what he said--he lost my interest." 
An American Studies junior simply described it as "a speech. There was no major an­nouncement, but I didn't expect any. He didn't say anything. I wasn't surprised, though--he came to accept a degree and that's what he did. He did what was called for." 
A number of students went so far as to say that the President said nothing at all. 
"He said exactly what I ex­pected--nothing," stated Suzanne LeBeuf, senior engineering student. "The speech was dry and unexciting. He avoided all issues, except what people wanted to hear. It was essentially a campus speech. He didn't want to stir anyone up with something like Cambodia. In general,the speech was just like Jerry Ford." 
A freshman pre-med student called it "a filler speech. He had a few main points and he just filled in with a lot of other stuff." 
Michelle Batacan said she felt let down. "I was disappointed. We were all looking forward to The Prl.'sidl.'nt coming. And he came. It was kind of sad." 
"Some people were falling asleep. The President was up on the podium saying nothing," she stated. 
"It was a good speech, but it didn't say too much. It was a safe speech," she concluded. "I got the feeling I was back in the '40's--you know, 'The Good Old Days.' " 
A student who took part in the walk-out, but said that he saw part of the speech on television, stated, "I'm of the opinion that he's a mental nothing. His speech showed that." 
"Everybody went just to see him," said a sophomore govern­ment major. "His speech was worthless. He didn't sayanything for the students. He made the address to the public, not us." 
Another sophomore disagreed. "I think the speech had a lot to do with what was going on here at school. He brought up the hunger crisis. which ties in with our Hunger Coalition. I think it was kind of relevant. He came around pretty well to the students in the 
TODAY at 2 PM & 8 PM 

"A distinguished qnematic achievement." 
-After Dark 
Tickets• $5.00 Evenings. $3.50 Matinees. ($2.50 for Senior Citizens/Students at Matinees.) Available alter AFT Season Ticket holders are seat~td. 
RIVER PARK. 
beginning. It was boring later, ment and college students. The though." President tried to gear his speech A freshman Government-intent to us. I. felt he was interested in u~. student expressed similar feelings. j He said .that ,we ca~ and will 
"I thought it was pretty good. c~~nge thmgs: she said. There was a lot more information 1 I ~~ou~ht It was a good ~~p there than most people gave credit rally, said another stud~nt.. ~t for. Mainly, he showed that the \ was ~ good .speech, .but It d1dn t United States is not going to \ contam any mf?rmatwn. I knew remain isolationist." w~at.he was gomg to sa:Y before he 
. said It. I had a good time and he One student sa~? tha.t ~e f~lt that made our school look good." th~ speech was . mspmn~. The President's 'quickie quip,' Ford emphasized the Id~als of however. praising Notre Dame's youth--how we should aspire to great advances in the field of high ideals. H~ was ver~ en-transportation, was undoubtedly co~ra.gmg. He did a good Job of the highlight of ths speech, ac­bndgmg the gap between govern-cording to all those polled. 
Irish honor St. Pat's Day 
6UBLIN !UPil -Thousands of 
shamrock-wearing and waving 
Irishmen paraded through flag­
festooned towns and villages in the 
Irish Republic Monday in 
traditional ·celebrations honoring 
St. Patrick, the patron saint of 
Ireland. 
Police security served as a grim 
reminder of the violence across the 
border in Northern Ireland, where 
residents were warned to beware 
of bombs in shamrock greeting, 
cards. Bomb squads Saturday 
defused six booby-trapped green 
greeting boxes mailed to Roman 
Catholics. 
In hundreds of bars and private 
homes across the country, Irish­
men toasted the shamrock in song, 
dance, stout and whisky. 
Corks popped and the cash box jingled as they swept their economic woes under the mat and. forgot about spiraling prices that put the little shamrock at 20 
It was a public holiday. Everything closed down except the essential services--and among the most essential on St. Patrick's day were the bars and the ceremony of "wetting" the shamrock. 
But if Irishmen were ready to forget economic problems for the day, a giant industrial pageant in Dublin brought back reality. 
The pageant, official highlight of the celebrations, took as its central theme "buy Irish--protect your job," a reminder that soaring inflation and high costs have shut down many firms and put 100,000 out of work, the highest total in 30 years. 
The Dublin parade, featuring the economic growth of the Irish Republic in more than half a century of self-government, in­cluded 120 floats depicting traditional Irish products-­Guinness stout, Irish whisky, 


GUS'S 

IN THE OPEN MALL 
AT TOWN &COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER 
TUESDAY NIGHT IS 
NOTRE· DAME & ST. MARY'S NIGHT 
60 oz. PITCHERS $1.50 
MUSIC BY AllAN DOBBS 
FOlK ROCK BlUES 
Attention: 
Freshmen & Sophomores 
-

Economics "Meet your Mai.or" 
Night 

Wednesday, March 19 Room 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

I~---------------------------------,\
I "After we beat Kansas on Saturday, we'll come back here to Stepan I I on Tuesday night and we'll have another rally, and I want to see this I I place packed I We can dD it, we can go all the way, but not without I I your spirit and support I" I
I I
Digger Phelps, 3/13/75 
II PSYCH-UP PEP RALLY II 
·I I 



I TONIGHT I 
I SPEAKERS: I 
~ ADRIAN DANTLEY ~ I BILLY PATERNO I II DIGGER PHELPS II 
,I . . I 
I STEPAN ··8:15 I 1 
,.______.......................________________~·~;~ 
• -. T • ~ .. -......--~-.. ,.. .... " ••••• II ••• 

A 

Presidential Visit March 17,1975 

A commemoration in photos. President Gerald R. Ford. 
the 38th President of the United States. came to the 
University of Notre Dame on a brilliant St. Patrick's Day 
at the invitation of Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh. University 
·' 

President. On these three pages. the Observer cameras captured and recorded the historic day. 

'I J ...: • 


I ~ '"--·· .·--· .. 
..... • ~A' I lilA 

Press Corps 


Page layout: Al Rutherford Tom 0''Neil 
Photos by: Chris Smith Zenon Bidzinski Pat Gibbs 


-~--~. 
P.O. Box Q
II II 
students found it within their
An Abrupt consciences to participate. The 
time of the conferral came, and 
these dedicated students followed
About Face 
their commitment, and walked out. Unfortunately though, due to a 
near Editor: number of reasons, the effects of their protest were not nearly as In last Friday's issue, The Ob­evident as many of them had se•·ver reported that Student Body hoped. In disappointment, and President Pat McLaughlin and even disgust, they cursed the SBP-elect Ed Byrne had declined apathy of the rest of the student 
to take pa~t in yesterday's meeting body. At least they could pridebetween President Gerald Ford themselves of taking a personaland various representatives from stand against wrong.
Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Both But, did these same peopleMcLaughlin and Byrne cited decide to continue in their 
personal. not political reasons for struggle? Did they even decide to 
refusing the invitation, a point write Mr. Ford a letter, telling him 
which left me genuinely im­about their feelings?
pressed. 
No. By far, most of them were 
content to let the matter rest. How 
In an atmosphere in which cheap the price of protest has supporters and dissenters alike become! To me, the idea of a fair seemed caught up in making the weather protester is a con­most out of this historical occasion, tradiction in terms. Looking these two student leaders elected around, I haven't only found them to pass up a once-in-a-lifetime in this past little escapade, I've chance because of their found them all over this campus; disatisfaction with the manner in we're all fair weather protesters, which the students who were myself included, and that makes to meet the President were me sick! selected. 
Thl."odore Gustowski 
On Monday, the scheduled meeting with the President took place and McLaughlin, true to his word, did not attend. Byrne; Depthless however, not only attended the meeting, but presented President Ford with a sweater on behalf of 
Speeches 

the ski team. This emphatic about­
face in position on his part calls for lll."ar Editor:some explanation . 
President Ford had a purpose in 
Was he misquoted in The Ob­his speech. to join academia with server? If so. why did he let the the world of politics. He did this story stand uncontested? And if with a barrage of shallow rhetoric indeed last week's statement was about how America shou\Q help the reported accurately, what made "third." and if that isn't enougl)., Byrne change his mind? Were the "fourth world." ~ pressures brought to bear on him lie also stated that within this from some higher source? Did a country, people should help each burning bush instruct him to take other. What a pleasant thought-­the sweater and bestow it on the Americans helping each other and President? Or did he simply give others throughout the world, in to the temptation to make a little summed up in a catchy phrase, piece of history and do something "peace with justice," which is he could talk about years from about as meaningful as "peace now. with honor." 
We need to see these trite 
I am neither belittling Ed Byrne, nor passing judgment on him for his decision; a person is entitled to a change of mind. But when that person is also the president-€lect of this student body, perhaps he owes an explanation to those who brought him to that office. Pat McLaughlin stood his ground and needs to say no more; but I think it is time for Ed Byrne to start talking. 
Name withheld upon request 
Fair Weather Protesters 
B,t•ar Editor: 
Shortly after we knew for sure that President Ford would come to receive an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from Notre Dame, a group of concerned students sought to rally support for a planned "walkout". Hundreds of phrases put into action before their meaning is understood, before we can applaud or criticize them. The speeches of both President Ford and Fr. Hesburgh only skimmed the surface of the world problem of hunger. 
I felt the President's drift was in the right direction, toward a food program. but he never went below the surface, expecting his audience to accept his depthless speech . 
. Judging from the applause, the audience did accept it. The President and Fr. Hesburgh gave the students plenty of opportunity to applaud themselves--Hesburgh tells us we are "the greatest student body" and Ford tells us that we will act in the future on what he was talking about, whatever that was. 
Ford maintained his Doonesbury image, telling friendly, corny jokes, but he found an audience susceptible to such corn and also, unfortunately, to shallow rhetoric. 
Gary 1\1. Shippy 
the observer 


by Garry Trudeau 
Night Editor: Danny O'Sanchez Asst. Night Editor: Mary McJanca Layout Staff: Terry O'Kerley, Mary MeEgan, Bob O'Varettonl, Chip O'Splna, 
Martha  McFanning,  Bob  McBrlnk,  Kate  
O'Kerwin  
Copy  Reader:  Ken  McBradford,  Bill  
O'Collins  
Day  Editor:  Bob  McRadziewicz,  Pat  

O'Hanifin 
Editorials: John O'Amantea, James MeEder Features: Tom McO'Neil 
Sports: Greg McCorgan Typists: Anne O'Peeler, Barb McNorcross, Jim O'Landis, Don Roos Compugraphic: Chip O'Spina Night Controllers: Howard Halle & Tim 
Murphy . • I -• ' , • . • n ~ ' ' • -• •'•\ · · Ad Layout; Tom McWhales 
Tuesday, March 1a, 19_7~5:.________:_t.:..:h:...:e::........:o=b:...:s:.._e=-.:...r-.:v-.:e=-=-r___:9:__ 
InPIRG directors to elect officers 
by Jeffrey M. Pecore Staff Reporter 
The InPIRG board of directors will meet with the retiring board Wednesday night at 8:30 in the InPIRG offices to elect the officers for next year's group. 
Molidor, one of the new board members, called this a "transition period" for the Indiana consumer group. "We've spent a large part of this year just getting organized, but next yearshould be a really good one," Molidor said. 
We're organizing lnPIRG groups at IUSB and hopefully at St. 
Tim Hake, Dave Carlyle, Julie \ Mary's as wellas at Valparaiso. Engelhart, Maureen Power, Tom Where'~ never been three .PIRG's Martini, Frank Musica and Lisa in South Bend before and w1th all of Molidor were elected to the board ' this manpower, we should be able by the student body on March 7 and · to get a lot done," she said. the March 19 meeting will be to Molidor also expressed the need distribute the offices among the for a non-student InPIRG director board members. that could remain in the office at 
ND students charged 
all times to answer the phone and handle the mail. "This would leave the students a lot free to • work on projects. If we receive the same funds as last year, we should be able to afford it," Molidor commented. 
Other InPIRG goals for next year include a community representative on the board of directors and more faculty con­tact. ·"We'd like to have different faculty members oversee our projects in areas in which they specialize. With these kinds of new ideas and the good cross-section of graduate and undergaduate 
Shoplifting increases security 
by Kevin Dickerson Staff Reporter 
Recently, South Bend area merchants have been complaining about the number of students from Notre Dame that have been shoplifting, and all merchants 
have agreed to step up preventive security measures. Claims from large chain stores such as K-Mart on Mishawaka Avenue cite that "four or five students have been caught shoplifting during the past three months," according to Assistant Manager David Reed of South Bend. 
The St. Joseph's County Prosecutors Office revealed that to their knowledge, there has been no action taken this year against any Notre Dame student accused of shoplifting. "We have had two or three cases recently, but our office decided not to pursue it," a representative of that office stated. 
Detective Chief Robert J. Urban of the South Bend Police Depart­
ment noted that there are two different degrees of shoplifting; merchandise lifted that is under $100 is a misdemeanor and that which is over $100 is a felony. 
"Ninety-nine percent of all 
shoplifting incidents are 
misdemeanors," Urban said. 
The penalty for shoplifting as a misdemeanor can range anywhere from five to one hundred dollars <depending on the circumstances) plus the cost of the stolen mer­chandise. At the judge's discretion, a jail sentence can accompany the fine. According to Urban, "a very small percentage of shoplifters in the community are Notre Dame students." 
In a statement released by Notre Dame Information Services, Dean of Students John Macheca stated that "the current policy of South Bend merchants and the St. Joe County Prosecutor's office regarding the crime of shoplifting is to prosecute to the fullest extent of the law even the most minor thefts." 
In the text of the release, Macheca explained that ex­ceptions will not be made for Notre Dame students. Prosecution is almost !inevitable, and " ... a conviction for even the smallest offense will result in a permanent
record." Macheca warned students that "the significance of having a criminal record may.. invoke exclusion from law and professional schools as well as the elimination of certain career opportunities." 
In the event students are caught by the authorities, Mahceca stated that "the University will not in­tercede." He also added "such acts <shoplifting) constitute a violation of the University's rules and subject students to ap­propriate disciplinary action." 
A representative from the Legal Aid and Defender Association of the Law School on campus stated that "we can be of very little help to students accused of shoplifting." 
students we have on the new board, our possibilities for next year are unlimited," Molidor concluded. 
Recently, InPIRG released a survey of the different checking accounts offered by banks in South Bend and Mishawaka. The report includes the American National Bank, St. Joseph Bank and Trust and First National Bank of Mishawaka, and gives information about such items as cost .of ac­counts, m1mmum balance required, monthly service charges and the availability of free checks and student loans. 
Mark Clark, a member of the old board of directors, said that the survey was based on a similar one taken at Indiana University by InPIRG and in California by CALPIRG. Clark commented that the purpose of the survey is to provide students with knowledge of all of the alternatives available to them. "We're not trying to rank banks," he added. 
InPIRG has made two other studies recently the first con­cerning the strength and durability of different brands of bicycle chains and cables. The other report talks about discrepancies in the help that different Intern~! Revenue Service offices in South Bend give in filling out income tax forms. 
All InPIRG reports can be ob­tained at the lnPirg office on the second floor of LaFortune. An information booth about InPIRG will be set up in the Memorial Library lobby this Wednesday afternoon and. night for all those students and faculty interested in finding out about the organization. 

SOCIOLOGY MEET YOUR MAJORS NIGHT 
Tuesday March 18, 8 P.M. LaFortune -Main Floor -Room 1-D 
A NEWLY REVISED MAJOR WITH AREA CONCENTRATIONS LEADING TO JOBS AND POST-GRADUATE WORK IN 
Law Government Service Criminal Justice Programs Social Work Pre-Med Professional Sociology Hospital Administration Family Studies and Counseling Urban Planning And Others Community Organization Pre-MBA Industrial Relations Personnel Public Research 
( 
~------------------------------------------,
We're Open l 
I DEEP DISH PiZZA IS HEREI I I "The Pan" PIZZA PARLOR iI is offering the N.D.-S.M.C. communitYI I I the largest and tastiest pizza I 
I 
in the midwest. I
I 
I 
I OULD YOU BELIEVE A 6LB. PIZZA~
I 
I I 
I I
I ANYWHERE ON OR OFF-CA.MPUS II I I I 
I FREE DELIVERY I 
PICK UP SERVICE CALL 277•1221 or 277 · 12221
I 
I 
I DEEP DISH IS A SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER!! !I 
IWHOLE NEW 
8 pack of 7-up or Pepsi $1 (deposit) with I 
IEXPERIENCE IN PIZZA! 
I 

I purchase of any medium or large pizza 1 
.____________1111!111!1 _______________________________,,
, l 107 DIXIEW~Y N.ORTI:i ~.AC~OSS.~ROM RANDA~LS INN.. . J 
·:..­
'' ) '
.
................... , .. .
~ 

1 0 the observer Tuesday, March 1a, 1975 
Program offers help to victims 
Sex offense committee seeking volunteers 
by Maureen Flynn Starr Reuorter 
The South Bend Women's Committee on Sex Offenses is seeking prospective volunteers for S.O.S.(Sex Offense Staff), a crisis intervention, outreach service for victim of sex offenses. A ten week training program will commence March 19 and run through May. 
Special arrangements can be made for Notre Dame and St. Mary's students who might miss sessions because of vacation schedules. 
"If they apply before break," Pxplained S.O.S. coordinator Mara NPwman. "they can start April !llh." In addition those who miss the last sessions at the end of May can make up the material in the fall. 
The training program, con­ductec(!)l experienced members of the cv111lnunity, has several ob­jectives: <H to sensitize S.O.S. volunteers to the needs of victims and their families; (2) to develop empathy and supportive attitudes; 
(3) to educate the volunteers in the areas of medical and legal procedures, referrals, and intake procedures; <4) to help prepare the volunteers for situations which they might encounter as outreach workers. 
The S.O.S. program started a year ago by the South Bend Women's Committee on Sex Of­fenses. According to Newman, the 
S.O.S. grew out of a concern "that 
there was no place where women who had been victims of sex of­
fenses  could  get  emotional  sup­ 
port."  
"They  can  get  physical  help  

from the hospital and investigative support from, the police," Newman continued, and stressed the role 
S.O.S. plays in offering necessary psychological aid. 
In addition the Sex Offense Staff gives out legal and medical in­formation· and makes referrals when necessary. 
"We've had about 50 cases in the past year," saitl Newman.Not all, however, were victims of recent crimes.· "We've had many calls from women who were victims some time in the past," Newman noted, "but they're having emotional difficulties now. Some 

Energy bill proposed in House to lirnit gasolin~ consumption 
bJ Howard Fields 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -Chairman lll\man of the House Ways and Means Committee introduced Monday a complex energy proposal centered on heavy taxes for inefficient or excessive gasoline consumption. 
The Oregon Democrat's bill would increase the tax on a gallon of gasoline by 37 cents up to April1, 1980; offer an. income tax rebate on that tax applied to the first 9 gallons consumed each week by each adult, and assess gas­guzzlers by as much as $1000 per car in 1981. 
Treasury Secretary William Simon, testifying on the final day of hearings before the panel begins writing its counter-proposal to President Ford's energy package appeared to reject a compromise and criticized as insufficient the reliance on taxing automotive gasoline. 
The key to solving the nation's l'nergy problems, Simon said, is to make the United Sates in­,~~pendent of foreign oil sources. ··we cannot be independent unless we have a program to limit the growth of all forms of petroleum products, not just gasoline," he
,. 
said. 
Ford's plan, delayed by efforts to compromise with Congress, was to tax all oil imports, forcing an across-the-board increase in all petroleum products at the same time the ceilings on the price of domestically produced oil were lifted. 
Ullman said his bill was the result of seven committee task forces which worked on various aspl•cts of the energy problems over the past two weeks. He said he hoped the committee would finish writing an l'nergy bill in 
timP for a House vote followingI Congress' Easter recess. 
Ullman proposed initiating the The idea behind the higher tax on gasoline tax increases next Jan. 1 excessive gas consumption is to with a 7 cent levy. On April1, 1977, penalize those who use· more than he would add another 8 cents and their basic weekly need, but to increase it by 7, 8, and 7 cents guarantee that those confining respectively each April 1 through themselves to their basic need 
1980. would not be punished. 
Using 9 gallons per week per Gas guzzlers would be penalized adult as the basic automotive by imposing a tax of up to $200 on needs for the average American, 1977 model cars getting less that 14 Ullman's bill would give a tax miles per gallon. Those getting 21 credit "For each U.S. resident miles gallon would be assessed who is 18 years of age or older." $40. This would increase under He said this would amount to $33.60 Ullman's plan to $1000 on 1981 next year to cover the increase to models getting less that 16 miles go into effect next Jan 1. per gallon. 
,____.-~-·-··--·--·--------------------------------------~ 
MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES 
* 2 FILMS 
* 
BOOKSTORE 

* 
LIVE FLOOR SHOW 


1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
CAL~ 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION 
'I' 
1974-1975 
FOOTBALL & 
.. 
BASKETBALL POSTERS 
,. 
for sale by THE OBSERVER See the display in the Huddle 
were victims from three weeks to training program but Newman three years ago. Others just want added that volunteers canbe used to talk or want information about in many other areas as well. steps they can take now." Anyone interested in contacting 
The S.O.S. staff is currently the Sex Offense Staff should call comprised of 24 active male and the Hotline number 282-2323. female volunteers. Staff members Another ten week : . 
m the ten week •. I; : will be I •. ' . . 
livE ANd STudy iN ROME 
LOYOLA lJNIVEFlSITY Or CHICAGO 
ROME CENrfR Of 1.\flf"lll AllT5 
• Classes taught in English 
• All academic credits transfer 
60 courses offered each semester: 
ANTHROPOLOGY • CLASSICAL STUDIES • ENGLISH 
& ITALIAN LIT. • FINE ARTS • HISTORY • ITALIAN 
• PHILOSOPHY • POLITICAL SCIENCE • PSYCHOL­
OGY • THEATRE • THEOLOGY 
• 
350 schools represented over 10 years 

• 
Campus villa houses aome 275 students 


MANY STATE SCHOLARSHIPS TRANSFER APPLICATIONS ACCEPTED NOW FOR 75-76 ACADEMIC YEAR 
FOil INFOIIIIATION IIAil. TO: LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO ROME CENTER OFFICE, 6525 N. SHERIDAN RD., CHICAGO, ILL. 60626 
Name School 
Address 
City 
Zip 
Join the third biggestfamily in the 
world. 
Imagine an order of 22,000 priests and brothers in 73 countries around the world. (That's a pretty big family.) 
But that's what the Salesians of St. John Bosco are all about-a large family of community-minded men dedicated to the service of· youth. (And no one gets lost.) 
In Italy in the 1800's a chance meeting between a poor priest and a street urchin served to create a movement of such success that it is still growing today. Don Bosco became the priest who brought youth back from the streets -and back to God. 
He reasoned that a program of play, learn and pray would make useful citizens of the world. He crowded out evil with reason, religion and kindness in a (what was then unheard of) atmosphere of family. 
The ideals of St. John Bosco are still with us today. His work goes on in boys clubs, technical and academic schools guidance centers, summer camps and missions. And his ver~ human approach is very evident in the family spirit of the Salesians. This is the way he wanted it. This is the way it is. The Salesian experience isn't learned-it's lived . 
I...-~~-------..,I
I 
For more mtormat1on about Salesian Priests and 
Brothers, mail this coupon to: 
Father Joseph:affel, S.D.B. Room A·lQ] 
Box 639, New Rochelle, N.Y. 10802

I SilleslilnsOF ST. JOHN BOSCO I 
I am interested in the Priesthood 0 Brotherhood 0 
Name Age ____
I I 
I
I:;-·"~"--sta,-e~~Z-Ip~-= 
1 
::::.-ion------1I 
.~..~.~~~~~.~-:~.:··.~~-~~·-&~=~.....~.,.~·~~-h~--.~~~~-1"~-~~-~.. ,.~·~~~":!!"'~~~11!"!~~!!'!!~~--~-~~!!'!!!.,._!!!!"!,~~.""'o~ff.."_l._.c.e.......,.IM'MJ"'•''.,.·..·,.·.....,,' n.•i~;,,:;u:.cu~~:~t:~~ ,,.....-----~· 

NCAA to re-evaluate St. Mary's next year 
by Marjorie lrr Staff Reporter 
St. Mary's College will be sub­ject to reaccreditation evaluation by the North Central Accreditation Association <NCAA> in the spring of 1976. Dr. Donald Horning, head of the Re-accreditation Committee at St. Mary's, outlined the process of accreditation and the procedure by which the college is preparing for it. 
Horning explained that the NCAA appoints a three man Site Vsitation Committee to make evaluations and recommendations for re-accreditation. Evaluations are based on reports compiled and submitted by every department of .the college, prior to the com­mittee's visit and comparative evaluations made during the campus visit: A recommendation 
Hesburgh: Ford bridges gull between nation's universities and government 
(co~tinued from page 1) of the Fighting Irish with a eheerful "Top of the morning to
surely improved," he concluded. 
you."
Ford's speech was interrupted At "first-rate campus"by applause 20 times. But the 
President drew the most en­Jn introducing the President, thusiastic response from the Notre Fr. Hesburgh noted that the oc­Damp audience when he cited the casion was the first time an students for "b.lazing pathways American president had set foot in the developments of new con­on a "first rate University cam­
cepts in mass transportation." pus" in ten years. 
"Some communities have the Jlesburgh stressed that he was mono-rail. some have the subway, not blaming Ford's predecessors Notre Dame has the Quickie," for that situation. "I would have to Ford said. say to their credit it was not en­
The President ended his St. tirely their fault," he said. Patrick Day address at the home "Universities are troublesome 
Ford states job increases are boosts to economy 
(continut>d from pagt> :l l the intelligence materials ac­tivities they have requested. 
"I can assure you and others that we will do all we can to indicate maximum cooperation, but until we have had an opportunity to review this request in detail, I am not in a position to give you a categorical answer," Ford said. 
El·nrwmy: '('ong•·t>ss Must Move' "The biggest stimulant we could get to the economy right now, which mPans more jobs for auto workers and steel workers, is to get the Congress of the United States to move quickly," the !'resident replied by way of en­couragement to those presently unemployed in those industries. E<'ord identified his tax reduction bill as a probably solution to unemployment yet criticized Congress for not acting on it. "I hope that before Congress goes on its Easter recess. it will enact a tax reduction bill like the one I proposed. or one that is reasonably acceptable," Ford said. The President, in addition, made reference to the recommendation in his budget message for ex­tending of the general revenue sharing program with an annual add-{)n which would "take care of the inflation impact as far as the state and local units of government are concerned." <'oncern over the money supply was expressed especially the fact that it has barely risen in the trnited States over the past six months. Ford said that according to charts shown him by Arthur Burns. chairman of the Federal Heserve. last week the money supply was rising. 
Meatless meals, fasting to begin 
The Wednesday fasting and Tuesday-Friday meatless meals pledges will begin this Wednesday, March 19. The first meatless meal will be on Friday, March 21, and each Tuesday and Friday after that. 
The Hunger Coalition pointed out that students who pledged the Wednesday fast need only not come to dinner as their dining numbers will be automatically crossed off. As to meatless meals, those evenings meals will not be totally vegetarian as fish sup­plements will be provided. 
Forms for student~ to piedge will be in mail boxes by Wednesday evening for use by those who have not yet but wish to pledge either meatless meals and, or the Wednesday fast. Those completed forms can be turned in in a box at one's respective rector's office. 
"We are showing an increase m the money supply. There will be adequate money supply available for the current economic cir­cumstances we face, and there will be an adquate money supply to meet the problems we have down the road," Ford 
predicted 
places because they are filled with persons who think otherwise:" 
Hesburgh praised Ford's efforts to bridge gulfs between univer­sities and the government. He especially praised Ford for in­stituting the Clemency program, "something his predecessor never would have done." 
Hesburgh, appointed by Ford to serve on the Clemency Board, defended the President's program. 
He stated that Ford's program has granted clemency to three times the number granted clemency after World War II; that 12,000 were still waiting to have their cases reviewed; and that more than 95 per cent of those who en­tered the program were granted demency. 
During Hesburgh's remarks, a small contingent of students staged a walk-{)ut. The walk-out was intended to protest' the President's campus appearance. Over 600 students and faculty signed petitions over the weekend to stage the walk-out. One wire service report estimated only 50 
II lked out. 


KAWASAKI SALES AND 
SERVICE 

10% DISCOUNT ON PARTS &SERVICE WITH NOTRE DAME I.D. 
SERV-ICES AND ACCESSORIES FOR All MAJOR BRANDS PECIALS:GENUINE SUEDE JACKET $39.95 SPARK PLUGS-50~ HELMETS · $8.88 
175 cc REG. $940 SALE PRICE $799 TIL END OF MARCH 
50825 US 31 NORTH, SOUTH BENb,-212--Ga 
·-----·Just South 01 s .... u-_.,._______.. 

THURSDAY, APRIL 3 8 P.M. Elliott Hall of Music, West Lafayette Tickets -$3.50 
Send name and address, stamped self-addressed envelope and check payable to Purdue University to: PRESERVATION HALL, Hall of Music Box Office, Purdue University, W. Lafayette, 1N 47907 
. .. • I • w • ' 

is then made to the NCAAt by the Site Visitation Committee and a final decision is then,received-
All · materials for evaluation must be submitted by December, 1975. The re-accreditation Com­mittee at St. Mary's, which is presently formulating sets of guidelines for the administrative units, student government, academic and other college departments to follow when preparing the information to be presented to the NCAA, includes: Dr. Donald Horning, Dr. William Hickey, Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, Sr. Francesca Kennedy, Sr. Jeanette Lester, Dr. Catherine Francis Ford, Dorothy Feigl and Elisabeth Noel. 
"Options will be wide open to the Visitation Committee," said Horning. "We're gathering material for special files on every, department of the college and all aspects of college life. They'll be free to explore anything they want to." 
Horning pointed out he dif­ferences between the upcoming re­accreditation and the last one St. Mary's underwent in 1966. "St. Mary's is a very different college than it was ten years ago," said Horning. "For!instance,the size of the student body has doubled since then and the faculty's composition has changed markedly, too. Secondly, the whole accreritation is different now." 
"The primary focus used t<-oJe on statistical analyses. Now, self­
. evaluation -who and what the college is, where they're going, the goals and objectives they see for themselves is what is importnat," Horning explained. "Any significant discrepancy between this self-evaluation and what the NCAA committee finds will, of course raise real questions." 
Results of the re~accrediation will be finalized before the 1976-77 academic year. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Need ride to New York City tv. Spring Break. Share driving & expenses. Call 289-3702. Jim 
Riders needed to Kent, Ohio on Thursday noon. Brian 287-3586 
Want to rent strobe-light tor weekend of April 4-6. Call at 8829 anytime 
Need ride from D.C. at end of break. March 31-Aprill. Call Jerry 2196 
Wanted: ride to Detroit. Leave Thursday p.m 'lr Friday: Call Katie 8158 
Need ride to N.J. or NYC for Break. Call Greg 1866 
Need ride to Miami for break. Will Pay Call Frank 234-6834 
Need r. to Detroit Spring Break. Call 1132 
Need ride to Shreveport, Louisiana; Spring Break. Call Gregory 8866 
Need ride to Syracuse for break. Call 8434. 
Need ride to Buffalo Friday, March 21st. Call Tom 8489 
Need ride to Chicago (O'Hare) Wed. Mar. 19. Call Maryann 4867 
Ride wanted: We gotta git outa dis place. Anybody going to or thru Fort Lauderdale and has room tor 2 more sun bunnies call Candy 6922 or Laura 6927 
Need ride to Milwaukee for Easter 
Break-can leave Fri.-Sat. Call Camille-5154 
Need ride to Md.-DC area. Can leave anytime March 25-27. Share driving. 234-6405 
HELP! Ride needed to El Paso for Spring Break or else I spend it in South Bend. Please Call John 8867 
2 girls need ride to Arizona. Share $ & driving. 5710 or 4219 
2 girls need ride to Chicago for break. 4543 
Desperately need ride to Dayton. March 21-will share expenses. Call 4697 
Need Introduction Dill. Equ. for Math 226. Call Andy 8233 
2 nice persons need ride to Denver tor break. Will share expenses. Call Mary, 5364 
HELP! Temporary (l year) home sought for 1 or 2 cats. We'll pay food and vet costs. We don't want to put them to sle~l-'-Please call Steve 232-9428 
Need ride to New York City for Spring Break. Call 7992-Nancy. 
FOR SALE 

Hexel Camps-$150. Olin Mark IV's $100. Good condition. 8012 
Corvus 411 slide rule calculator with memory trig and log tables. Call Jim 289-6166 
Two WW low mileage G78-15 tires. One rim. 3 items: $45.00. Call Fr. Rioux 6237. After 5 p.m. call 6185 
It's for Real! Texas Instruments calculators; SR-51 $175.00 SR-50 $90.00 SR-16 $65.00 SR-11 $52.00 Prices include tax, freight charges approx. $1.50. Call Tom Weber 304 
Grac_!! ..1605 >' .-••••• • ·MF· ·.•,•. 
For sale cheap! Refrigerator oven­'torage cabinet, small desk. All in ~11ent condition. Call Steve 232­
94<<> 
NOTICES 
Reading matter(s) for Spring Break. Pandoras Books. 602 N. St. Louis at S. Bend Ave. 
Lost on Sunday: Haig Ultra 8 iron­front nine-Reward. Please call: Tom 3501 
For a Grey Hound ticket to ANY city with a connection in Chicago. Call Tom Boyer 272-1807 
Accurate, Fast Typing. Northeast section South Bend. Reasonable. Phone 232-0746 
PITTSBURG CLUB: LAST CHANCE FOR SIGN-UPS. CALL T J 8414 OR MARY 4992. Buses leave 1 pm Mar. 21 
Taken by mistake from Hiedleberg party Fri. a brown suede· coat. Please return. Call 
Frank 8231 
Married couple needed for live in houseparents for foster home. Salary. Wrlte; P.E.P. Inc. 3012 S. Twyckenham, South Bend, Ind. 46614 
Men and women with two years of college left! Want to invest six weeks this summer and assure yourself a second career as an Army Officer upon graduation? Earn approximately $500.00 this summer and gain self-confidence! No obligation. For information contact CPT Weimer at 283-6265 about Army ROTC Basic Camp. 
PIE FACE UNLIMITED. WE 1/1/ILL HIT ANY STUDENT ON CAMPUS. GUARANTEED. LOW RATES. SEND NAME AND PHONE AND VICTIMS NAME AND WE WILL CONTACT YOU. JOE DOE, 400 PANGBORN 
FOR RENT 
2 five bedroom houses for rent for next school year. Excellent con­dition, furnished within 'h mile of campus. Call 233-2613 
Four student houses available Sept. '75. Groups of 3, 4, & 5. Call 287-7818 mornings before 9:30 or evenings· 
4 or 5 bedroom carpeted furnished home near Notre Dame available June 1. Phone 1-533-9665 
2 bedroom furnished home near Notre Dame. Available June 1. Phone 1-533-9665 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: silver cross at A.C.C. Monday night-Fisher-Holy Cross hockey game. Reward. 3010 evenings 
Lost: 1 pr. glasses, silver frames, blue case, initials KLW, near Eng. Aud. Call 1255 
Found: a gold, cross-shaped charm between Walsh and Sarin. Call Jerry at 8727 
Found: Near Howard on March 10­Pair of amber rim glasses in black case. Call 1650 or 1652 
PERSONALS 
Hoosier Hysteria is coming! For details, listen to WSND, 640 radio. 
Boss Man, Tom & Jerry would be proud of you. I know when I'm beat. 

- ---·----~----------------------------­ 
12  the observer  Tuesday, March 1a, 1975  
A.D. of D.C.  

best since Elgin? 
by Gn•g ('organ Sports Editor 
The February 19, 1973 edition 
'of Newswt-ek featured a high 
school senior whom it labelled "the 
most sought after prep basketball 
player in the country." His name 
was Adrian Delanore Dantley, 
since, by popular demand, shor­
tent>d to A.D .. and while he was 
leading Washington D.C.'s 
DeMatha High to new basketball 
heights. he was also receiving over 
:100 s• · larship offers. 
"S· .e say he's the best around 
here since Elgin Baylor," said 
DeMatha's coach. Morgan Wooten, 
who. for 15 straight years has had 
every senior basketball player on 
his squad accept a college 
scholarship. 
Just recently the Washinton D.C. 
sportswriters and sportscasters 
voted for the five greatest 
basketball players to ever come 
out of the D.C. area. Along with 
Elgin Baylor. Austin Carr, Dave 
Bing, and Jack George, they 
named Adrian Dantley. 
Last year, as a freshman, 
Dantley averaged 18.3 points per 
game and gained honorable 
mention on UPJ's All-America 
team. This year, A.D. has done it 
all. He finished second to Rich­
mond's Rich McCurdy as the 
nation's leading scorer averaging 
30.4 points a game and is a first team forward on AP's , UPI's, Hasketba II Weekly's, Sporting News',· Basketball News' and 
the NBA coaches-poll 
All-America teams. In other 
words, consensus. 
College teams that have to play 
against him are intimidated. Pro 
teams who scout him drool; and 
they offer a lot of money. 
"Lawyers are constantly talking 
to my mother. trying to put 
pressure on her," says A.D. "It's 
unbelievable. When we playedSt. 
John's in Madison Square Garden, 
three of them came up and gave 
her cards, but she said she wasn't 
interested. I don't know where all 
the rumors started about me 
leaving. Right now, my plans are 
to stay here in school." 
Dantley is quite close to his 
mother, Virginia, and quite openly 
admits that she runs his life. 
"When I was little and my father 
left home," says Adrian, "my 
mother could very well have left 
me too, to be put in a foster home 
or something like that. But she 
didn't. She stayed with me the 
whole time and brought me up. 
I'm very grateful to her for that. 
Whatever my mother says, I'll do. 
"I remember when I had the 
sore nose and we had to play 
Michigan State," relates Dantley. 
"I called up my mother and told 
her that I didn't think I'd be able to 
play, that it hurt too much. But she 
said, 'You don't sho?t with 
your nose or rebound With your 
nose or dribble with your nose, so get out there and play.' So I did." 
Throughout his career, and 
Maryland rally set for tonight 
Consensus All-American Adrian llantley and Super Soph Billy Paterno will be the featured speakers at tonight's Pep Rally for the Irish Basketball squad. Digger Phelps. head coach, will add his own comments on the cage prowess of the University of Maryland. Notre Dame's next opponent in the NCAA tournament. 
At last Thursday's Rally, Digger stated that "after we beat Kansas on Saturday, we'll come back here to Stepan on Tuesday night and we'll have another rally, and I want to see this place packed. This basketball squad can do it, we can go all the way, but not without your spirit and support!" 
Tonight's Hally will begin at 
8:15 p.m. so that over seven hundred freshmen who have a Math exam this evening will be able to attend. Help keep the ball rolling by giving the Irish a cheer tonight in Stepan Center. 

DOING WHAT he does best, Adrian Cantley heads for the hoop. (Photo by Paul Joyce). 
despite the pounding his 6'5 frame But I don't anymore. If you have has taken, Dantley has had few confidence in yourself as a 
. problems with injuries. This ballplayer you shouldn't ever be 
season he logged 1,018 minutes of worried. You have to believe in 
the 1080 the Irish have played, yourself." 
more than any other player on the But like most superstars,
squad. "My stamina is a lolbetter Dantley is quick to give credit to 
because I lost 19 pounds from last his teammates. "Without the rest 
year," says A.D. of those guys out there doing their · Dantley has always had a little , best and giving their best, I weight problem. "I liked those wouldn't be able to do a thing. If 
sweets," he says. As a freshmanin I've done well it's because myhigh school, the only freshman to teammates and coaches have ever start at DeMatha, Dantley helped me." was a rotund 6'2, 218 pounds. Is it tough being a superstar?
"They used to call me 'Chunky' "Well, in a way," says Adrian. and 'Baby fats' bi~ek then," admits "Everyone expects you to be Adrian. Last season ht> played at perfect. When you make a mistake about 229, but over the summer, everyone notices, and if you don't 
after spending three weeks in the score 30 points a game people say hospital having his wisdom teeth you didn't play well. Like at St. removed. Dantley dropped 19 .John's <where the Irish won 68-67) 
pounds and this year has kept his for example. I only scored 18 weight steady at 210. points, but I played one of my best 
Dantley has more than pulled games of the year, especially that weight this season. Not only is defensively. But people ask what he by far, NO's leading scorer, but happened." he also leads the Irish in rebounds, The St. John's game is a perfect and field goal and free throw example of Adrian Dantley, the 
shooting percentages. With his 33 team player. "He's dedicated," points in the Kansas game, Dan­says Irish coach Digger Phelps. 
tley moved ahead of John Shumate "His main concern is with the as Notre Dame's sixth leading all­team. not with how many points he time scorer. scores." 
"I think I've improved a lot this "There are two things I really year," explained Adrian. "I'm hate," adds Adrian. "I hate to fly playing a lot better defense, I~m and I hate to lose. In high school I more aggessive and my reboun­was 115-7. So far in my two year ding has improved. Last year career here, I've lost 11 games. I when I was a freshman I used to don't want to lose any more. I get nervous before ball games. hardly ever sleep during the 

Notre Dame's 
PRE·CANA PROGRAM 
for engaged couples 
April 6, 13, and 20th (Sun. Ev.) Limited to Notre Dame students and their partners 
Sign up now in Campus Ministry Off. Deadline: March 19th SponsorecLQy Campu~ Ministry 
season, especially after we lose. I don't get to sleep until about 2:30 or 
3:00 in the morning and I get up about eight. I just worry a lot about how things are going." 
Someone once asked him if his goal at Notre Dame is to break Austin Carr's scoring record. "I'd rather go to the NCAA finals than break Austin's record," Dantley quickly replied. "My biggest goal here is winning a national championship." 
An economics major, Dantley's other goal is to get his degree, one of the main reasons he plans on staying in school. "I'd like to play pro ball," he says, "but mostly my goal is to be successful at whatever I do. If I'm successful I want to take care of my mother, but also I'm a Big Brother in D.C. and I like to work with little kids. If I do make pro ball, I'd like to use some of the money to help out the kids in the D.C. area." 
Adrian Dantley, the individual, 
wants to be just that, an individual. 
"I won't compare my lifestyle or 
playing-style to anybody. I don't 
pattern my play after anyone." 
Even so. A.D. has a slight in­
clination to follow his D.C. neigh­
bor Elgin Baylor, whom he calls 
"the best I've ever seen." 

And A.D. is genuinely hurt when 
people assume his quiet, 
seemingly disinterested attitude 
represents cockiness and over­
confidence. "I'm just shy," he 
says. "I really feel bad when 
everyone says I'm cocky because I 
don't say hi when I'm walking 
down the quad. It's not that at all." 
Still, Notre Dame would be 
Dantley's choice should he have it 
to do all over again. "I like Notre 
Dame," offers Adrian. "I like the 
student body. They treat me well, 
they respect me, and I in turn am 
going to respect them by staying 
here. I couldn't have performed 
like I did without all the help I've 
gotten from tile students." 

When Dantley was recruited he had narrowed his choices to Minnesota, Maryland, North Carolina State and Notre Dame. Phelps visited him. So did Austin Carr, Collis Jones, John Shumate and Bob Whitmore. But other than his mother, the one who in­fluenced Dantley most was Chuck Taylor, a sportscaster for what were then the Baltimore Bullets. 
"He was like a father to me," says Adrian. "In fact of any single person, he taught me the most about basketball. When it came time to decide what college to go to, he told me that it was my decision, but that I should go to Notre Dame. He said they had the best alumni, the school was most prestigious, there would be a lot of TV exposure, Digger Phelps was one of the best coaches around, and I would get a good education. So, here I am." 
And in the NCAA regionals the Irish are. 
The Student Union Presents 
SUMMER TRAVEL PLANS 
EUROPE: 14DAYS IN ENGLAND SCOTLAND AND WALES 
INCLUDES: $799.00 
. Transportation from JFK to Heathrow Airports . Option of choosing from over 300 hotels throughout Britain . 13 day use of rental car with unlimited milage . 5 separate departure dates in May & June . Optional plans with EURAIL PASSES & SOFA AIR PASSES (available separately) 
MIDDLE EAST: 21 DAYS IN EGYPT, JORDAN, IRAN, LEBANON AND SYRIA $1776 
INCLUDES: 
. Transportation from JFK and between coun­tries . First class hotel accomodations 
. Breakfast and dinner daily . Tours with free admission to shrines, museums, etc. 
Planned itinerary 
$25 Deposit Req~~Jired 
Sign up Nov . .f 
BROCHURES AND INFO AVAILABLE AT STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE (2nd Floor LaFortune) OR CALL 283-3031 
L______________________________________j 





