

--~~­
~~ 
Trustees approve $1.2 million for graduate women housing 
By Tt>rry Keeney Editor-in-Chief 
The Notre Dame Board of Trustees approved last Friday a $1.2 million expenditure for the new graduate women's housing complex. 
In a day-long meeting, the Trustees voted to appoint new members to the Board and approved the reports of its standing committees. 
The names of the new appointees will be released following notification by Edmund Stephan, chairman of the Board of Trustees. 
The graduate women's housing complex is under construction on Bulla Road directly east of the University. It is scheduled to be completed by fall, 1976, to accommodate women currently housed in Badin Hall. 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University president, noted the work of the Trustees consisted mainly of hearing and approving reports of the standing committees. 
Ml.'eting Tl'rmed Good 
"It was a good meeting," he said. "We covered 
lot of ground and listened to a lot of reports and ar 
proved a lot of budgets." 
I lcsburgh would not elaborate on further action b 
untverstly of notre dome sf mary's college Vol. X, No. 40 Tuesday, October 28, 1975 
the Board. 
The Academic and Faculty Affairs Committee report discussed problems of use of the Memorial Library. 
Fr. James Burtchaell, University provost, reported on the pro~ress of affirmative action programs. 
As part of the Investment Committee report, Philip Temple, an attorney with the firm of Prereau and Teitell and a specialist in tax-exempt organizations, explained the potential impact on University con­tributions of tax reform proposals currently being discussed in the House of Representatives Ways and Means Committee. 
Tour Conducted 
The Trustees were also conducted on a guided tour of the Administration Building. Dr. James Frick, vice­president for Public Relations and Development, explained the purpose of the tour. 
"Fr. Hesburgh has always felt that people don't get a feel for the place," Frick said. 
"Here you have a building that's the center of the campus that Trustees have little opportunity to get a history of," he pointed out. 

Church's business to act 
Randall calls for equality 
by Eilet>n O'Grady Starr Reporter 
Dr. Claire Randall, secretary of the National Council of Churches, equated the issue of women in the Church with justice and human dignity last night. 
"It is the Church's business and you have to make it yours," said Dr. Handall, talking to a crowd of IiilO at a conference of the Catholic Commiltl'e on Urban Ministry <CCUMl at the ACC. 
SpPaking on "A Strategy for Woml'n in Church and Society," Handal\ claimed "any group working on justice must address itself to the issue of justice in our society and Church." 
"The Church has given little thought of what it means not to ordain women. By refusing to ordain them, the Church gives divine sanction to the secondary position of women," she said. 
Randall continued, "Somehow women can't have as close a relationship to God as men. This l'annot be thought or tolerated." She added this is the reason 
many religious  women  leave the  
Church.  
J  hine  Ford,  a  theolog  

teacher at Notre Dame, told of a statement made by the Church in 1954: "Bisexual people may be ordained as long as the predominant sex is male." 
Cites Pamphlet 
Randall then referred to a personhood pamphlet put out by the Church which directed its members to take responsibility to liberate people who are repressed. 
She pointed out this failed to include women within this scope of the repressed. 
"The Church should take the responsibility invited by the gospel they preach," Randall said in response. 
Randall is the General Secretary of the National Council of Churches in New York City. 
She mentioned some of the many programs the Council is working on in the defense of women: the Committee of Women's Corporate Responsibility, Women in Ministry and the International Women's Year. 
Speaking about society, Randall said that women have not been able to shape their lives or take part in the major decision-making 

DR. CLAIRE RANDALL: By refusing to ordain women, the Church gives divine sanction to the secondary position of women. (Photo by Tom Lose) 

Off-campus housing office 

that decides much of their lives. 
"Women can't assume leadership that goes with these decisions," said Randall. 
Economic Discrimination 

She  also  pointed  our  their  
economic oppression.  
"Women  seek  economic  

viability. They are at the lowest rung of the economic ladder because the economic possibilities for women are oppressed from the top down," stated Randall. 
She said women should make their own choices about work, lifestyle and children. She said none of these should be defined by others. . 
Randall called for more CCUM members to form coalitions to aid the women's cause. 
"Women should work together in many groups on one issue," she stated. 
"We need to get a whole spect­rum of the work that concerns us. We need other women and women's groups in these coalitions," she said. 
She cited examples of successful women's coalitions started in the sixties. 
"The United Methodist Women have a long history of struggles of dealing with the same issues we are facing," she noted. 
"The work of the Church Women United led to the formation of the United Farm Workers. Also successful is the National Council of Jewish Women," said Randall. 
Randall remarked in these coalitions, women should make an effort to be non-{!ompetitive, draw out the insights of the various parts, make an effort to share decision-making and operate in ways less hierarchical than the Church in approach. 
Kandall also pointed out women's centers that have developed in cities for the justice of women. 
She cited one in New England which deals with the abuse of the grand jury system and the harassment of women by the FBI. 


Sail boats get in their flnaljournies before winter brings with it the freezing of the lake. (Photo by Tom Lose) 

grows with student needs 
by Martha Fanning Staff Reporter 
Two years ago Notre Dame formed an Off-Campus Housing Office in response to the growing needs of off-{!ampus students. With approximately one-fifth of the student body living off-{!ampus, the involvement of the University has increased with regard to these students. 
Tom Wilson, assistant off­campus housing director, com­mented on the change. 
"The off-campus housing office has evolved from an information agency to an expanded service. This demonstrates that the university is becoming in­creasingly committed to the needs of off-campus students," he noted. 
The off-campus housing office has initiated many programs designed to aid students. However, a communication gap exists between the 0-{! student and the university. 
Father Thomas Tallarida, director of off-{!ampus housing, stated, "There has to be more 
*
Observer 

Insight 
student input in the office; the office can't be a one-way street. We need response to programs offered." 

"We can offer all the services they need, but if the students don't respond, the programs die," he said. 
Tallarida commented on some problems in students renting, 

"Most students sign leases and they don't know what is involved. They also move into substandard houses and when they encounter problems they came to us,"he observed. 
Wilson explained that the office is trying to avert problems. 
"Most students come up to the office when they rearch the point where they can't handle the problem. We're trying to prevent problems from starting by providing information to student­s," he stated. 
Lists of houses, apartments and rooms available for rent are compiled by the office three times a year. All residences listed have been inspected and rated by the University. 
"The lists are constantly being revised and updated," Wilson added. 
If a student finds a place not listed on the sheets, the office will inspect the facility upon request. 
This evaluation service also applies to leases students are considering. A model lease is also available for a guide form from the 0-{! office. 
An Off-Campus Housing Guide 
has also been formulated. The 
booklet describes methods of 
finding a house and legal obligations of tenants and lan­dlords. 
A ·similar handbook is currently being printed for landlords renting to ND students. The guide will contain information on activities of the Off-Campus Housing Office, inspection criteria and mediation services offered to both landlords and students. 
Crime prevention is also an area of major concern to off-{!ampus students residing in houses. University students are suscep­tible to buglary due to the amount of time they are absent from the premises. . 
Tallarida stated that cr~me prevention information had been
,_ 

FR. TALLARIDA:There has to be 
more student input into the office, 
it can't be a one-way street. 
handed out at registration. He 
encouraged students to get to know 
their neighbors. 
"The neighborhood associations 
are very active and can be a lot of 
help to students. Students should 
also become acquainted with other 
students in their area," he said. 
The housing office last week 
went out a list to off-{!ampus 
residents of other students living 
on their street. Houses which had 
been burgalrized within the last 12 
months were indicated. 
The letter which accompanied t­
he list stated "students are very 
vunerable to burglary perhaps as 
much as three times that of per­
menent area residents." 
A new program under con­
sideration through the 0-{! office 
and student government was 
outlined. Leaders for different 
neighborhoods who , could help 
improve the communications bet­
ween the university and o-c 
students are being sought. 
These students," Wilson com­
mented, "could help get crime 
information to students, provide 
greater communication and 
community awareness and 
depending on the interest, help 
(Continued on page 3) 

Tuesday, October 28, 1975
the observer 


warld briefs 
MORRISTOWN, N.J. AP-Karen Anne Quinlan's fate will be decided in 10 to 14 days, a judge said Monday after final arguments by lawyers who want to keep the comatose woman alive and by a lawyer for her parents, who want to "let her die ~ith dignitr." 
Citing the complex testimony at the fiv~-day trial, Supenor C~urt Judge Robert Muir Jr. said he needed tlme to prepare a detailed ooinion in the case. 
MANILA, The Philippines AP -Authorities said Mon~ay ni~ht extortion or the possibilty of a bigger conspiracy could _he behmd the killing of one of the presidential assistants to President Fer­dinand E. Marcos. 
Guillermo de Vega, close aide to Marcos, was ~hot fatally Monday in his office, 200 yeards from the heavily guarded presidential palace in central Manila. 
an campus taday 
12 noon--'lecture, "henry smith: the preacher as poet" by prof. walter davis, rm. 361, o'shag. 
4:30 p.m.--lecture, "from startle to jump, effects of the 8th nerve on the spinal cord" by dr. charles barnes, indiana state univ., rm. 278 galvin. 
5:15 p.m.--. vespers, evensong vespers, log chapel. 
6 p.m.--academic progress dinner, dinner for new members and committee in faculty dining hall, south dining hall. 
7 p.m.--lecture, "current and future opportunities in aerospace engineering" by dr. thomas j. mueller, rm. 203, engineering. 
7:30 
p.m.--meeting, charismatic prayer, Iafortune rathskeller. 

7:30 
p.m.--lecture, "relating to a computer" by steve mcnally, acad. applications manager, carroll hall. 

7:30 
p.m.--lecture and demonstration, ballet repertory co., o'laughlin auditorium. 


a & 10 p.m.--film, "the king of hearts" in engineering auditorium. 
8:15p.m.--CCUM conference, "the church as coalition builder, past and present" by rev. andrew greeley, ace arena. 
\. 
St. Mary's to vote 
He keeps house 


Wife, 

NEW YORK <APl -Dressed in a frilly white apron, scouring pad in hand, the dishwasher manages a brave little smile across the array of shiny potsand pans. 
Mike McGrady's picture graces the cover of his book, "The Kitchen Sink Papers: My Li~e as a Househusband," a pmgnant, funny account of the year that he and his wife switched roles. 
Corrine M,cGrady went out into the world to become the family wage earner. Mike stayed home to care for three children and tend the household chores. 
He was 40 years old, a suc­cessful author (he master­minded the X-rated spoof, "Naked Came the Stranger") and a newspaper columnist earning $35,000 a year. But McGrady quit it all for chauf­feuring the children, aged 15, 13 and 11 to dentist appointments, rushing home in time to make dinner. vacuuming and ironing. 
"I wanted desperately to stop doing the same thing every day of my life," said McGrady, a boyish, witty charmer. 
"And I had always said that what I really needed was a wife," said the woman behind the man. 
Corrine McGrady was al­ready a bm-:nesswoman before the switch. She has been juggl­ing her housewife duties with commitments to her spare time career as a jewelry and graph­ics designer and manufacturer of such plastic classics as a cook book stand and a salad bowl. 
"I was going· crazy from all the responsibilities but I man­
for school nickname 
aged," said Corrine, 37, a tiny 
by Sue BaUmann Staff Reporter 
Within the next week, St. Mary's will conduct a survey to determine the opinions of the student body, faculty and administration on the school nicknames chosen by a special committee, according to committee coordinator Cathy Coyne. 
"The committee, which basically acts as a screening process, has narrowed down the number of nicknames from 45 to 5 and decided to take a survey," said Coyne. 
The five choices are the "Rascals," the "Bells" or "Belles", the "Bandits", the "Smicks" and the "Marian Lakers" or the "Lakers." 
The survey will also include a box labeled "none of the above" for those who feel that the nicknames will not properly represent the school. . 
"There will be a referendum when the selection is narrowed down to two or three names," Coyne announced. 
According to Coyne, the com­mittee of judges contains representatives from everywhere in the college. 
The members include Joan McDermott, Student Government President; Denise Peterson, a senior; Dr. William Hickey, vice­president for academic affairs; Diane Davis, director of the alumnae association; Mike Reynolds, director of public in­formation; and Stevie Wernig, assistant to the vice-president for student affairs. 
"No one is in a hurry to choose the nickname," Coyne stressed. "We are concerned with getting a good name which will mean something twenty years from now." 
"We "want a name that has something to do with the school and incites enthusiasm," she added. 
Coyne noted in choosing a nickname "there are very few comparisons we can make to other girls' schools. Other than the "Mighty Macs" of Immaculata College in Pennsylvania, most womens' teams make up their nicknames for only one season at a time." 
"Most women's colleges are concerned only with intramural sports and only one or two varsity teams, while St. Mary's is in the process of building both an ex­tensive intramural and varsity program," she stated. 
Coyne pointed out the nickname must be versatile so that it can be used for all sports. 

BOOK BARN 
is the 

BOOK SHOP 
for 



BOOK LOVERS 
Old and new books 


Savinelli pipes and t(!bacco Free coffee while you browse 
SALE ... lO percent off all merchandise ifyou 
mention you saw this ad. 2 blocks east of the light at 
Cleveland and Juniper ONE MILE FROM NOTRE 'I• mi. straight ahead DAME. TURN NORTH AT THE GEORGETOWN SIGN. 
Phone 272-5520 

Open Mon·Fri untll 9:00 Sundays noon untll 6:00 
dvnamo with black hair piled 
Sexuality series opened to all; Provost to speak 

I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I The pizza th~ 



husband 
on top of her head. "But .I al­ways had this vision of my not being a housewife. I hated the deadness of being confined. I wanted another slice of life. I wanted to be self-sufficient. Money is power, and I wanted my own." 
Then that mid-life restless­ness hit Mike. Corrine's busi­ness was bringing in about $10,· 000, and she encouraged the switch. She had no doubts about her ability to expand the business and provide for the family. And she was confident of her husband's talent at wielding egg beater and broom. 
Their friends could not take the role change seriously. Mike was repeatedly asked what he was really doing that year. 
"To men, it was the sacrifice of a precious birthright. To women, it was insanity," said Mike. "At parties, women loved me for about 8 minutes and then thought about the ramifi­cations -that their job was so easy and so dumb, any guy could do it." 
"In the beginning, I felt very lost and threatened," said Cor­rine. "I felt outside the frame­work of my friends. I didn't be­long anymore. I was a heroine of sorts but their envy was combined with hostility." 
Mike got a contract to do the book after he quit. He kept a diary of his troubles: 
The provider coming home late without calling resulting in a ruined dinner. Mike sneaking off to the local bar for solace 

switch 
where he invariably ended up giving out recipes for steak Diane and mayonnaise. Mike feeling pangs of jealousy as Corrine casually recounts luxu­rious lunches at chic restau­rants. Familiar family ex­changes with a twist -"Your mother will speak to you about that when she comes home tonight ... You never take me out anymore, Corrine ... " 
Mike was a gourmet chef, producing such exotic dishes as Oysters Rockefeller, but he never did get the hang of housecleaning. 
"I expected to come home to a well-ordered house. But it was in utter chaos most of the time," Corrine said. "I just couldn't kick off my shoes and forget about it because deep in my heart I still had that sense of responsibility about the house." 
So Wednesday nights while Mike left for his basketball night off, Corrine tidied up. The experiment almost collapsed there. 
"I felt he had not kept up his end of the bargain. I felt he didn't want to do it," Corrine said. "And then suddenly I re­alized no one would ever want to do it. He had never been conditioned to think that a spot­less home was necessarily a good thing." 
She was plagued with guilt when Mike slipped into occa­sional depressions about the monotony of his life. 
But they survived. 

L=:~::.:~!:__~N.'QY,U£,llk.9J;f~~WJ.'~ 
"I got my ticket to the 
Navy game through 
an Observer classified!" 
THE WANT ADS GET RESULTS ­10,000 people in N.D community reached daily. 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31st 
HALLOWEEN SPECIAL 
''$.01 BEER'' 
FROM 7 P.M. TO 9 P.M. FROM 9-11 P.M. $.10 DRAFT FROM 11-1 A.M. $.20 DRAFT 
(WE WILL NOT MAKE CHANGE SO BRING PLENTY OF PENNIES) ENTERTAINMENT NIGHTLY 
RIVER BEND PUB 
The only authentic Italian Deep Dish Pizza. 
watch our ads all this week for an event that you won't believe 
(Save our 

277-1221 or 
fur 



' Free Delivery 

_T_u_e_sd_a_y_,_o_c_to_b_er__28~,_1_97_s______~t~h~e~o~b~s~e~rv~e~r______ 3 
•

Shuttle serv1ce seems doubtful 
~r========================================================================================================================================================::;:;;;:;;;::=============================::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::::::::: 
by John Uilenschneider Starr Reporter 
Unless students show an in­creased interest in the off-campus shuttle system, most of the 1100 off-campus residents may have to find their own transportation to ('ampus during the cold weather. 
I<'or a few weeks last year, off-
campus students could ride to the "Most students have plannedto campus on an off-campus shuttle. live off-campus and have arranged 
"The shuttle was a failure last Off 

~~~~~~i;,"':~t:-:~~·.~·d~~~g 
lie explained, "First of all, the system lost mone~ because the 
students were not mterested and second, the system was n~t ad-va.?tageous ~o the students. 
So far this ye~r. no plans hav~ t~pen m_ade to.comnue the shuttle, Stl.'yenson said. 
I<.d Byrne, student body 
, .. d • t ·d ff 
presI en , sal o -campus 
studl.'nts are generally spre~d ~mt a~d sch~du_les are hard to comclde \\llh bus plc~;u~s.. . II(•. ad_ded,. Its JUSt as easy fo.~ students to h1~ch-h1ke to campus. 
Last year s two-bus shuttle s~stem. sponsored by Student (,~vernment, .cost off-~ampus rl.'sldents ~en. cents a trip, and mad~ periOdic . stops . to areas Wlthm a two-mile radms of the eampus.
Byrne said the cold weather may increase student response to the 

Ross vice-president 

Touhy wins SMC freshman election 
TPrry Touhy won Friday's run­off Plection for president of St. Mary's freshman class, Mary Lou Bilek, acting elections com­missioner. has announced. 
Touhy and Hilaire Thomas were the candidates in Friday's contest. 
The nPwly-<l'lected Touhy slate includes Natalie Hoss, vice­president; Lori Shannon, SPl'l'etary; and Ann Regan, tn•asurer. 
In accordance with school poli('Y. Bilek refused to give the exact proportions ofthe voting. llowever. she said Touhy won by a substantial amount. 
Touhy will be informed of her duties and school procedures at a meeting with.Joan McDermott, student body president, this WPdnesday. 
"W(•'re all so happy we made it", Touhy remarked. "I think this year's freshman class has a lot of positive ideas and wants to do 
more as a class. 

~ 
Those Famous College Paintings Ll"st of 1500 to
. . . a 

~;:
j
h' 
NOTRE DAME & SAl NT MARY'S COLLEGE MIRROR NOW ON 
shuttle system. "But students are so spread out that the system just pours money down the drain," he noted. 
According to Byrne, Student Government even tried to organize car pools last year when even­lually proved "more fruitful," but did not interest most of the off­eampus students. 






-campus commission heads co-op 
(Continued from page I) initiate social programs for off­~ampus students." 
Doug Stevenson, off-campus commissioner, also commented "We would like to call meetings in certain neighborhood d 
. . . . s ai~ 
acquamt students w1th others 111
their area "  he said.  
Another· objective is  to  have  a  
student  representative  attend  

ml.'etings of neighborhood associations. 
l'urrently, Student Government is working with the neighborhood groups to improve relationships. 
Ed Byrne, student body president, stated they would like to redefine o-c boundries to 
coincide with the present boun­dries of neighborhood groous.
"The student could then make himself a part of the association 
She continued, "I am especially surprised by their enthusiasm; I was •even approached right after 

the election by students wanting to give me their ideas." 
One of these ideas is a freshman newsletter. 
"The biggest thing needed on eampus is communication," Touhy stated. 
The first primary in the election was declared void by McDermott 

lflllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIUUIIIWIIIUllllhllllllllllniiiiiiHIIIIIIIIt 
I THE POSTER PLACE I 
i 5
i 100 11 x17 POSTERS only $10.00 1 
-
i 
I ~ 
iioumHIIIUUUUUIIIIIIIIIUIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIII·--·--·IIIIIIIlllllllli 
•nsty-pr1nts
2 15
sour::~N:A ~a:.~m 
due to campiagn violations. 
McDermott thenscheduled a second primary, which then ended in the run-off between Touhy and Thomas. 
As a result of McDermott's actions, Elections Commissioner Kathy Carrigan resigned. 
According to Bilek, there is no immediate plan for filling the position of electwns commissioner, although several people are being eonsidered. 
their shcedules so that they can come to campus with their friends," Bvrne pointed out. 
"So some students already have rides while the remainder of the students don't show enough in­terest to get the shuttle started again," he said. 
If the question of continuing the shuttle reopens this year due to an mcrease of student interest, 

and participate more fully, Byrne noted. 
Many off-campus students are unawa~e of_ programs offered by the Umverslty. ~orne are not even ~ware of the e~1s~ence ?f an offc­c,ampus commlsswner m Student 
Government.
T O'N . . . ff 
om el1. a JU_mo~ o -campus 

·;tudent, . sta_ted h1s v1ews on the ~ommumcatwn l?r~ble~. . "The cause of many d_lffl~ulhes 1s. t~e lack of. commumcatwn.. Th1s 1s responsible for ge~eral 1gn?rance of o-c students .~n relatwn to 
programs offered, he comment­ed. . . . Secunty IS a J?rl.ma~y concern of most students hvmg m houses. One stu_dent co~mented that the o-c housmg Office should place 
more pressure on the South Bend Police Department. This in-
F I


oose rom• 
-
i §
i 

Student Government will first survey the off-campus residents in order to determine whether or not a bus system is needed and the extent of that need. 
Fr. Thomas Tallarida, director of off-campus housing favored the shuttle system last year. Tallarida said he doesnotexpect the issue to be reopened 
"It depends solely on the 

A GIFT OF DISTINCTION FOR CHRISTMAS OR FOR ANY OTHER SPECIAL OCCASION .... FAMILY, ALUMNI, OR SWEETHEARTS. 
By now, these handsome college scences-skillfully hand-painted in oils on the reverse side ofglass-have be­come an American tradition. Each and every painting is 
destined to become a unique and cherished heirloom . With over 1500 scenes to choose from, it is more than likely that your school is included in our growing list. Visit 
our store or give us a call; we cannot think ofa better gift for your favorite graduates-or their dads-at this time of year. Allowtendaysforde!ivery. 
dividual also cited the need for off-
campus residents to become 
acquainted with their neighbors. 
"In the house 1 lived in last year first semester, we were never brokeninto even though the house was very vunerable. My roomates 
. d h d . 
an I a gotten to know our neigh­
bors and all the kids in the area " 
he pointed out. ' 
Most students interviewed stated that they were acquainted with t­heir immediate neighbors and some admitted involvement in 
area groups. 
Commenting on the respon­sibility of the university in regards to security, O'Neil said, "There should be some safeguard for us especially at a University wher~ students have been forced off I 
r.;;.;;;,;;;;;;~--.-......;.;-~;,;;.;;.;;.;;;;...;;,:.;.______________
SIR RICHARD'S 
SMC women -HAIR STYL/NG-men 
129 DIXIEWAY SOUTH 
(U.S. 31 NORTH) SUITE B 
(Across from Randall's Inn) 
Closed 

Mondays RICH CODDENS UNISEX 277-0734 



Cinemallfl 
''KING OF HEARTS'' 
STARRING: ALAN BATES & GENEVIEVE BUJOLD 
TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
OCT. 28 & 29 
8 p.m. 10 p.m. 

ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM 
response of the students who live off-campus," he said. 
"If there is a change in the condition off-campus concerning transit into Notre Dame, we will 
begin  work  on  a  new  transit  
system," Byrne observed.  
"But  the  conditions  which  

caused the failure a year ago still exist." he noted. 
campus." Most students expressed a desire for better security measures and 
more  programs  geared  toward  
helping the student  once  he  was  
settled off-campus.  

The lists received last week were generally believed a good idea. However, some students suggested that a more inclusive list be sent with students listed on the basis of area and not just on an individual street. 
Although several students commented on the lack of social involvement and isolation from friends no solutions were men­tioned. Most felt that this aspect of o-c life was the student's responsibility. 
:~ ~~ 






~~The Observer
~ ~ on independent s~dent newspaper 
seriously, folks 
The War of the Stones

Founded Novf'lllber 3, 1966 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Manager 
EDITORIAL BOARD AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; Kl'n Giro,11ard, Nt>WS Editor; Bob-Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Ke-n -B~adi~rd, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil, Fe-atures Editor; 
Chris Smith, Photo Editor 
--1 

Edo!on•ls 281-&61 N•w• 2~9l~1~71~S------~B~u'~'"~"~'~1B_~l_1_47_1___________ 
Tuesday, October 28, 1975 
COUL: Certain Death? 

When SBP Ed Byrne gave the SLC the responsibility to follow up the recom­mendations of the Committee on Un­dergraduate Life (COUL), he may have condemned them to certain death. 
The COUL report contains recomm­
edations from a group of students, faculty and administrators com­missioned by the Board of Trustees to study student life, The proposals provide a real direction for improving the quality of student life. They include: a plan for aco-ed housing, provision for "neutral space" for social gathering and an on­going student critique of the office of Student Affairs. 
These recommendations are too im­portant to give to a body with the recent record of the SLC. The SLC has lost respect as a viable, representative body on this campus. Last year it spent the better part of one semester trying to define the sexuality code. Finally, last April it did pass an extension ofparietals in the dorms by one hour. This body has commanded so little respect from the Administration that Fr. Hesburgh has yet to make any formal reply or acknowledgement of the proposal. 
SLC different? 
Ed Byrne claims that this year the SLC is different. According to Byrne, the SLC has been reduced in membership to facilitate discussion and provide ad hoc committees, like the COUL committees. We can only hope that Byrne is right and that the new SLC will handle the im­mense work load of following up the COUL recommendations. 
But let's be realistic: it took the COUL committee members six full months of weekly meetings merely to come up with recommendations. Any follow-up to implement these proposals may be ex­pected to take at least that long, if not longer. 
The recommendations strike to the heart of student life at Notre Dame. Solutions may take months, perhaps years. That iswhyit is important that the same students work on the report follow­up this year and next year. As it now stands, there is only one underclass student involved ~'l following up the report. 

If follow-up responsibility went to the SLC, there would be an annual turnover in students working to implement the proposals. The turnover from last year's COUL committee to this -year's COUL committee is marked by a lesser en­thusiasm for the COUL report. 
COUL not a priority 
Last year SBP Pat McLaughlin made the COUL report his number one priority. This year Ed Byrne did very little for last week's report to the Trustees and left most of the work to another member of the COUL committee who did it almost on her own. 
The COUL committees were effective last year because students, faculty and 
administrators could let their hair down 
and deal seriously with student problems. 
In the SLC such frank discussion has 
proven impossible because votes and 
discussion break down to confrontation 
bet ween students and administration 
with faculty in the middle, Whether the 
new SLC can create an atmosphere of 
cooperation between students and ad­
minsitrators is doubtful. 
The COUL report sould not be referred 
to the SLC, but should be followed up by 
an an ongoing committee of students, 
faculty and administrators These per­
sons should assure that follow-up is done. 
They would be responsible to the Board 
of Trustees in May for implementation of 
the recommendations. 
Abandoning original purpose 
The COUL-report must not be allowed 
to become just another document that is 
never acted upon. Of the 33 recom­
mendations of the report 12 have met 
with no action and six are categorized as 
"action to be taken." The recom­
mendations in theses categories are 
perhaps the most important in the 
report. 
The Committee on Undergraduate Life 
was formed last year because existing 
channels including the SLC did not work 
for students. There is little reason to 
expect those channels to become 
suddenly effective this year. To disband 
the COUL committees in favor of the SLC 
may be to abandon the best leadership 
and direction students have had in years. 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ art buchwoI d 
WASHINGTON--Last week I had a kidney stone attack in Evansville, Ind. I wouldn't have even mentioned it except that an alert Associated Press urology correspondent picked up the story, and it made the A.P. wire. So many people have written in asking what a kidney stone attack really feels like that I decided to try to explain it in terms that the layman can understand. 
A. kidney stone is about the size of a tiny pebble to everyone except the person who has one. To this person it is the size of the 

Rock of Gibraltar. In fact, many people when they get a kidney stone attack scream out, "I've got a peice of the Rock." There are two kinds of kidney stones. One is made up of uric acid and the other 
of calcium. Doctors can differentiate between the two, but patients can't nor at the time of an attack do they give a damn. If you've felt one kidney stone, you've felt them alL 
This is what seems to happen as far as the victim is concerned. He is going along minding his own business when suddenly, out of nowhere, a mountain forms in the kidney which, as I said, feels like the size of the Rock of Gibraltar. 
1 The kidney reacts angrily to this interference with its function and tries to push the rock into what might be described as the Suez CanaL Obviously the Suez Canal cannot accommodate the Rock of Gibraltar, and without any warning war is declared between the kidney and the rock. 
An urgent message is sent on the hot line from the kidney to the rock. "Unless you get out of our canal immediately, we will attack with everything we have in our organ." 
The rock sends back a one-word reply, "NUTS!" 
The patient, who is a horrified neutral spectator to this exchange, tries everything to achieve peace. He paces up and down, rolls to and fro and eventually tries to climb the wall in hopes that the kidney and rock will come to their senses. 
Using Kissinger diplomatic tactics, the patient tries to per­suade the rock that if it will just move a few inches down the canal, the kidney will not try to break it up. 
But the rock is adamant and demands .tremendous con­cessions in exchange for withdrawing from its position. "How do Iknow," the rock asks, "that if I move from where I am now I will not be driven into the sea?" 
The victim assures the rock the kidney has no intention of pushing it into the sea. All the kidney wants to do is live in peace with the lower part of the body. As long as the rock doesn't try to prevent the kidney from doing its work, the rock can live in the bladder for as long as it wants to. 
If megotiationts fail and the rock refuses to move, then a U.N. doctor is called in who immediately fires a volley of Demerol or some other painkiller into the bloodstream. 
This does not stop the war between the rock and the kidney, but it gives some shelter to the innocent, while the kidney tries to push the enemy out of its territory. This can only be done with gallons of water which the kidney forces against the rock. 
If the good guy (the kidney) wins, the rock will retreat and even sue for peace. If the rock is able to repulse the water attack and hold its own, then the kidney will have to surrender, which means handing over negotiations to the Blue Cross. 
It would be nice to report that once a kidney stone has lost a battle others would learn their lesson. But unfortunately this is not the case. Even though my kidney moved the enemy to a safe place, I distinctly heard in my Demerol stupor the rock say to the kidney, "I may go down the drain, but there's a lot more of us where I came from." 

did indeed enter my room andP• 0 • B0 X Q force me to take down the poster.I intended not to vindictivelyDear Editor: attack Dean Roemer, but to attack the injustice of a contract students 
After reading the article on the 1 are forced to si~n which allows banner incident in Monday's entry to a students room at will byObserver, I feel the main points of any person of authority in the my letter have been missed. The administration. letter was intended to demonstrate I realize that this is something two points: that I consented to when I signed 
1) The fact that access to my my contract to live on campus. room was gained, without my However, compliance does not approval, by the Dean of Students automatically Imply agreement because of his position in the with those regulatiOns adhered to. Administration, and Hopefully this unfortunate in­
2) I was forced to remove the cident will cause the ad­banner because of an ultimatum ministration to have second given to me by the Dean of thoughts about their stance on the Students. matter. At the same time, I will be 
I admit I lied about not being contemplating the judiciousness of present in one of the rooms in order my means of bringing such an to add sensationalism to my letter; issue to light. If I indeed did pursue but that is immaterial in light of the wrong course of action, then I the fact that Dean Roemer entered apologize for my error. However, I my room without my permission. think this requires some serious The fact that discrepancies exist thought on the matter by all of us. as to what happened after the Dean This incident could just as easily of Students entered my room have occurred to any student on should not cloud the issue that he campus. 
Thomas Evans
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeal• the observer 
Night Editor: AI Rutherford Assistant Night Editor: Maureen Flynn Layout Staff: Jim Stevens Day Editor: Pat Cuneo Copy Reader: Kathy Mills Editorials: en Girouard Features: Tom O'Neil Sports: Bill, Ernie Typists: Florence Tobin Karen Hinks, Terry Harlan Compugraphic: Morey Blinder Night Controllers: Tom, Martha 
Ad Layout: Ann T. 


Tuesday, October 28, 1975 the observer 
5 



portrait of another 
~coach': dauid isele 
lisa moore 
1\lusic is Jllayin' inside my brain, Obst"rvt'r reporters, for example). From Ovt•r and ovt•r and ovt'r again. :J:OO to 6:00, he rehearsed "Drunken 1\lv frit•nd. tht•rt>'s no t>nd Sailor" at least one-hundred and eighty­Tt; tht• music ... seven times with the Glee Club to get the Tht• music is playin' and won't let the entrances right. After a gourmet dinner of wol"ld gt>t nw down. dining hall cookies, he marched the -Carole King Chorale in circles to perfect the rhythm of "Angels from Your Realms of Glory" for another hour. His admission "I am a fast­It's Thursday night, hushed and dark at paced person who works well charged," is Notre Dame. His day began at 8:00 with a being felt by this time. His favorite drink Pro-Seminar class, followed by a 9:00 is Coke and his favorite composers, Bach dass in Graduate Analytical Techniques and Monteverdi. He makes a great dish of 
and a IO:OOclass Theory III. "I like to take chicken pillaf and D.C.I. appears in the a half an hour to run home for lunch since I corner of some seventy musical com­don't get to cat dinner at a normal time." positions. The afternoon was spent with private 
There are just some people who can't composition and appointments (with help but affect others. No one who has 



problem of ~coming 
ouer to jesus' ~ toohey
Not so long ago I received a visit from a ween commitment to the person of Jesus .Jesus freak. He was a classic example: and his mission. It's for this reason that it disheveled, dirty, incoherent, irritating, becomes crucial to remember that it has spouting scripture texts at random. All of always been the social impact of this made it hard to resist immediate Christianity, rather than the experience of rejection. Fighting through the temptation communion with God, that is the primary to write off the person, I finally was able to measure of the church's credibility. understand that what was to be rejected A look at our recent history will prove was not the man but the message. t•nlightening. These past few years have 
II<' kept insisting that there was nothing been marked by a new interiorism. There hut damnation for anyone who did not seems to have been a good deal of reaction "conw over to Jesus." Jesus, he said, had to the disillusionment and frustration of snatch<'d us all from the hands of an angry the '60s, when it turned out that the life of God; he "purchased us with his blood." He the spirit often was in decline in the made Ill<' realize how tragic it is when gatherings of activists. As a result, we people think they can somehow have Jesus observe a movement of inwardness and without having .Jesus' mission of caring for self-examination, a re-emphasis on the others. traditional religious symbols, and a quest 
For this young man, faith was a very for more profound inner strength and cozy. private affair, a self-obsessed turn-more personally-enriching experiences. on to ,)(•sus. But real faith has very little to This new interst in the interior has do with feeling good, a tingling up and meant for many, both religious down the spine, running around trying to professionals and lay persons, a gPt others to feel as we do. This is the significant shift in priorities. As Peter mistake som<' so-called "Jesus people" llenriot states: "No longer are in-make. A good many of them seem pain-stitutional change, political reform and fully preoccupied with self. In every structural renewal high on the list of many conceivable way they ask: "How am I who might have engaged in these activities doing?" They say, "Our responsibility is to a few years ago. The new interiorism has save our souls, to come over to Jesus-not much to recomment it, as it involves to gel all caught up in that social-gospel people in the search for interior renewal. stuff." Yt>t, they have a marked tendency to be a-
Some of this make-a-decision-for-Christ political, a-social in their orientation; that 
crowd, heavily into fundamentalism, fail is. a tendency to focus on personal renewal 
to go along with an integral gospel. They or one-to-one charity (both laudable) 
are willing to go "the one way," " but without attending to the socio-economic 
rt>luctant to go the whole way. They injustices which mark our society 
misunderstand "evangelization," confuse structurally." 
it with prose.ty.tism and think it has to. do None of this is to say that the obvious With recruiting more card-carr~mg breath of the s irit is not with the new members. Somehow they never reahzed 1· 11 teri·or 1 ve p t ( a g d
1 J , r db b · .. l" no men s pr yer roups an
I 1al esus evange Ize Y em.g evan.ge 1he like); but it is to question whether we 
(good.newsl; and he accomphsh.ed this by are not seeing a significant pendulum 
;·eachmg out to human needs With acts of swing. First there was an over-emphasis 
ove. . on activism to the detriment of personal
It really becomes crucial to remember spl·r1·tual g wth· th · t
't " t J " d ro , now ere IS a grea
I d 0
I Iat we on come over esus an stress on interiorism to the detriment of JUst s.top there. If we e~er really. dare to the struggle against injustice and the 
ask tum how we are domg, he w11l let us . .
k 11 w·ll 1 t us k th t nnot oppressiOns m our own country and around 
now. e 1 e now a we ca the world join ourselves to the God of the universe, · the creator and redeember of the world, It seems that the current challenge is to and expect that to be a private matter. see the connections and correct the im­Heal faith, he insists, necessarily propels a balance. It appears fair to speak of "im­person toward universal consciousness balance" when a movement of personal and care for others. renewal results in social insensitivity and To have faith in Jesus is to share life a lack of commitment to structural change with Jesus. Come over to Jesus, by all for social justice. There needs to be ·a means; but then get ready to hear him connection between love of God and the say: "If a man wishes to come after me, he love of brothers and sisters. Unless, that must deny his very self, pick up his cross is, we negate the scriptures: "Anyone who and follow in my steps." To deny your very says, 'I love God,' and hates his brother is self means to put aside preoccupation with a liar; since a man who does not love the self. It's not so much a question of taking brother he can see cannot love God whom up a cross as something new, but of he has never seen ... anyone who loves God dropping the old--our former false notion must also love his brother." that faith is a me-and-Jesus-and-to-hell-In the light of this, it is truly encouraging with-anyone-else affair. There is no way to note that presently over 1,000 Notre around it; it follows from the fact that he Dame students are involved in various says that we must follow in his steps. And volunteer service projects, and an ad­that entails the recognition that once we ditional 200 are participating in programs share life with Jesus, we have his spirit, coordinated by the community service which leads us to say what he always said -directors. It is also significant that 700 men not "How am 1doing?" but "How are they and women from all over this country are doing?" on campus this week, at the Catholic I have been speaking of the problem that Committee on Urban Ministry conference. occurs when one fails to see the connection Hopeful signs that the caring Jesus still , between comm1,1nion and concern, bet-. walks am 


come in contact with David Clark Isele Harrisburg. But with six years of music here at Notre Dame can be any less than background behind him, and a talent and awed at his rare combination of talent, wit, desire for composition, he decided to enthusiasm and versatility. pursue his career in the field of music. 
He's come a long way since his firstAlthough he can remember a time when composition, created at the age of six.

he didn't aspire to making music his With a simple melody and three chords, itcareer (he wanted to be an architect as a went like this: "Come along with me tosenior in high school), Isele has music in Grandmother's house---We will have ahis blood. <His father was a band teacher turkey instead of a mouse---Yes sir, Yesand his mother a singer; Isele played the siree---Come along with me." \"Yawn"l.
violin, clarinet and piano and sang). With Of his 70 compositions, to date, thirty a smile, Isele recalls "embarrassing have been composed since he's been atfamily performances" in which he, his Notre Dame and six are yet unperformed. 
parents and his sister would perform for Among the most notable are the Notreluncheons and meetings. 
Dame Mass, performed weekly, and 


Prologue in Conjunction, which premiered in Brussels, Belgium in 1971. 
· "Coach,'' as he is affectionately called by his troops of singers, came to Notre Dame in 1973 with the purpose of reorganizing the program of choral en­sembles in light of the advent of co­education. With "no designs on leaving" he is content here at ND, and cites the eagerness of the students, the atmosphere of the campus and the talents of Prof. Cerney, department chairman, as areas with which he is especially impressed. "I hate to be cliche and mention the mystique of Notre Dame," he admitted as he discussed the mystique of Notre Dame. Notre Dame seems to fit his individual 

lsele received an undergraduate degree need for variety -"I can do the things I from Oberlin College in voice and want to do without conflict,'' namely, a education, masters degrees from Southern combination of activity in the fields of Methodist University in organ and sacred voice, organ and composition. At any music, and a PhD. in composition from larger school, he might be confined to one Eastman College in Rochester, N.Y. After area of activity. He is excited about the receiving his masters degree, he spent new music building which will open in the some time in public education in a small winter, noting that every inch of space is high school in Centerville, Maryland and a already theoretically utilized for "lear gas in the halls" school in rehearsals, recitals and classes. 
I books I 

comic relief for women's liberation 
CHAZY SALAD Some Things About The pieces are all reprinted columns Women By Nora Ephron; Knopf, $7.95, from Esquire and other publications. 201 pp. Together they should bring laughs, 
sympathy and maybe a few converts to the 
movement from both sexes. -M.E.

Ifever a movement needed comic relief, 
Women's Liberation does -and Nora .. FOOTNOTES: Would you be ashamed 
Ephron, like Shakespeare, knows how to to introduce your daughter to friends if she 
provide it without straying from the were a chimpanzee? Dr. Maurice K. 
central issues of the drama. "Crazy Temerlin wasn't. "Lucy : Growing Up 
Salad," her contribution to the cause, is an Human -A Chimpanzee Daughter in a 
appetizing collection of thoughts about Psychotherapist's Family" (Science & 
women -their problems, achievements Behavior) tells why .... The Lady with the 
and delusions. enigmatic smile is the subject of another 
Though a firm supporter of the book, coming in October: "Mona Lisa: 
movement, Ms. Ephron doesn't hesitate to The Picture and the Myth" by Hoy 
say somebody has acted like a jerk (Betty McMullen (Houghton-Mifflin) .... Dick 
Friedan at the Democratic convention) or Gregory will follow "Nigger" with "Up 
throw darts at "consciousness raising" From Nigger" <Stein and Day) in 
and a group that insists, "Happiness is January.... Dr. Michael Debakey has 
knowing what your uterus looks like." written a book on the subject of closest to 
On the other hand, she becomes in­his heart: the heart. "The Living Heart" 
dignant over the men who invented a \David McKay), out in January, tells how 
female problem and then made millions the heart works, how and why it breaks 
fro from it: vaginal odor, known in the down .... Alice wasn't the only little girl 
business as "the, uh, Problem." Her wit is Lt"wis C'arrol took fancy to. The others are 
keenest in this piece on "feminine hygiene revealed in "Lewis Carroll The 
sprays," as they were euphemistically Photographs and Letters of Lewis Carroll 
dubbed. to His Little Friends" (Rizzolil, scheduled 
Some of the columns merely raise for November. 
questions: What happens to sexual fan­Copyright: Speaking of Books, 1975 tasies after liberation? Others frofile 
individuals: Bernice Gera, first woman 
umpire Martha Mitchell (surprisingly 

errata

"charming, canny and moving") can 
Linda Lovelace. ("her idea of a clever 1) The photo essay published last weekresponse to the question of whether she has entitled "If Winter Comes ... " was a~­any idiosyncracies is to say, 'I swallow credited to Tom Lose. Mike Kron was 
-

well.' ") She also muses on Julie Nixon responsible for the photographs.
Eisenhower and Rose Mary Woods. Her eye-witness account of the 24th 
\ 2) The times listed for the "French Annual Pillsbury Bake-Off is delicious 
Connecton" and the ~'Missiles of Oct­satire. ("It was snack time. It was con­
ober" were incorrectly given. The venience-food time. It was less-work-for­
"French Connection" will be on television Mother time. All I could think about was a 
Thursday at nine o'clock. The "Missiles of steak.") 
October" was on Sun<la,y.night 

---------·--------------------------------~----------------------------~------------~~----~--­
6 

the observer Tuesday, October 28, 1975 




Explosions rock three US cities 
were looking for three men and mainland cities, but there wasBy The Associated Press a woman who were seen in a no word of any trouble on the
Police searched for suspects 

island.
maroon-colored car near three
and clues Monday in the bomb­The FALN has been blamed
of the bomb sites in mid-Man­
ings of banks, government 
hattan and the Wall Street for at least 10 explosions in thebuildings and corporate towers area. New York area, including fivein New York, Chicago and that occurred one year agoWashington. A Puerto Rican Written communiques and Sunday. The F ALN also
group seeking independence for telephone messages to news claimed responsibility for athe island claimed it set the ex­media said the bombings were 
January blast at historic
plosions to attack "yanki gov­the work of the FALN, a terror­Fraunces Tavern, in which fourernment" and "capitalist in­ist group seeking independence persons were killed.
stitutions." for Puerto Rico, now a U.S. 
The police said the bombs atThe blasts, which occurred commonwealth. In Spanish, the the banks -two First National

almost simultaneously in the initials stand for the Armed 
City branches, a Chase Manhat­
three cities and spanned a peri­Forces for National Liberation. 
tan branch and an office of theod of about 45 minutes, from 
National Westminster Bank
1:43 to 2:30 a.m. EST, caused The organization said Mon­Ltd. were high-yield ex­
no injuries. day's bombings commemorated 
plosive devices similar to the
There were five bombs in the 25th anniversary of "revolu­ones used in the Fraunces Tav­
New York City -four at banks tion in Puerto Rico against yan­ern blast. The bomb at the mis­and one at the U.S. Mission to ki domination" and were part sion was a low-yield pipe bomb,the United Nations. A bomb of "a coordinated attack they said.
also exploded at the State De­against yanki government and Police in Chicago said they
partment building in Washing­monopoly capitalist in­
did not know who was behind
ton and three bombs damaged stitutions." The group's com­the bombings at the Sears Tow­four buildings in Chicago. munique listed Puerto Rico as er, the Continental Bank andPolice in New York said they a target along with the three 
IBM Corp. in their city. They said the bombs, which caused an estimated $50,000 damage,

Mayoral candidates 
were black powder pipe bombs, similar to those that damaged the Mid-Continent Plaza build­ing in Chicago last June. The


continue cantpaign 
F ALN also claimed responsi­bility for that bombing.

SOUTH BEND, Ind. (APl -former Notre Dame Imeman 
The authorities questioned

Democrat Peter J. Nemeth, who played in the National and 
three persons and released 

still riding the political momen­Canadian Football Leagues, them. They also searched for a tum from beating an incumbent jumped into the Republican pri­
balding man with a limp who 

mayor in the spring primary, is mary last May as a relative po­was spotted near the llO-storyplaying hard to get in the last litical unknown. 
Sears Tower, the world's tallestdays of the fall campaign. He still lags far behind Ne­building.

Nemeth, a 33-year-old attor­meth in name recognition and The investigation was com­
ney completing his first term has been hampered in the fall plicated by a call received byon the South Bend city council, campaign by a weak Republi­the Chicago Sun-Times afteris trying to protect what ap­can organization that produced the explosions went off. The pears to be a commanding lead its lowest primary turnout in caller, a man, said two moreelection against Republican modern history. 
bombs were set to go off "inJohn P. Slafkosky by avoiding A third candidate, independ­honor of the veterans."

joint appearances. ent Ronald R. Kronewitter, a Monday marked the federal
Nemeth upset Mayor Jerry J. long-haired, bearded art teach­observance of Veterans' DayMiller by a 2-1 margin in the er, isn't expected to have much and most federal offices were
primary, when he campaigned on impact on the race. 
closed.

problems on the police depart­The No. 1 issue has been ment, downtown woes and Mil­crime. Police found an unexploded ler's inability to along with ma­Slafkosky proposes creation dynamite bomb in a bouquet of jority council Democrats. of neighborhood citizen patrols roses at the Standard Oil Co. 
Slafkosky, 34, a salesman and in high-crime areas, with building. They also checked a unarmed volunteers traveling suspicious box at the Federal in their own radio-equipped Reserve Bank, but it turned out
IRA guerrillas 

cars. He calls the idea "Project to be a canister from the bomb NAB," for Neighborhood Assist­that damaged the Continental ance Bureau. Bank across the street. Win­

still holding 

Nemeth denounces the pro­dows in the Federal Reserve posed patrols as modern vigil­Bank were broken by the bomb
Dutch captive antes and charged in the only at the Continental Bank. televised debate of the cam­The bombing of the State De­paign that "Project NAB" was partment in Washington -the
MONASTEREVIN, Ireland 

a political gimmick. Instead, second this year -caused mi­(APl -There was no break in Nemeth proposes upgrading the nor damage. Initial reports saidsight Monday in the siege of a 
house where Irish Republican regular police force, which was four bombs were involved, but torn by dissention during the a spokesman said later the
Army guerrillas have been 

Miller administration. blast was caused by only oneholding a Dutch industrialist. 
Both men also have offered device. There was no ex­Asked whether police be­
ideas for downtown develop­planation of the change.
lieved the end was near, police ment, slowed greatly when As­The Associated Press bureauspokesman Supt. Tom Kelly 

sociates Corp. of North Amer­in Baltimore received antold newsmen: "I think you can ica abandoned plans for a huge anonymous call saying thesay we're one day closer than 
we were yesterday." 

complex as part of a new down­State Department bombing was 
The kidnappers, Eddie Galla­town mall. "staged to protest the sellout of gher, 21l, and Marian Coyle, 19, have been holding Dutch indus­
1oct. 31 $.15



r-----------------CAMPUS WIDE t
trialist Tiede Herrema in the 
second-floor bedroom of a two­
HALLOWEEN DANCE t 
story rowhouse since police
stormed the last f MUSIC BY *STRATUS* t
building Tues­dav. Herrema was first seized f The Best Band on Campus 

6
in ·Limerick Oct. 3. 
STEPAN CENT 9-1 ' 
~~~~....,_ 
the plush


George Graves 
now appearing in the Mail Pouch Hoom 
SPIRIT OF 

ST.. LOUIS 
(This weekend no cover charge with student I.D.) 
HAPPY HOUR Mon.-Fri. 4:00-7:30 LADIES' NIGHT Tues. 8:00-10:00 MEN'S NIGH! Thurs. 8:00-10:00 
PIZZAS, SNAl~KS
EVERY MONDAY-REDUCED PRICES 
& SANDWICHES
ON BEER AND BAR DRINKS 
SERVED ANYTIME

-
7 ft. TV screen for
Appropriate attire required for admittance 
Monday night football . .!!i~i;i~!~~~~Arn~erico's Finest Show and Donee Bonds Six Nights A We._ 

THE HEADQUARTERS 
=~~~~~~-P-ARKMOR PLAZA, IRISTOL ST. (IYPASS 112) ELKHART 

Israel to (Egyptian President Anwar) Sadat," who is meeting with President Ford. The caller did not identify himself as be­longing to any group. 
The FALN communique found in a telephone booth in New York demanded the re­lease of Oscar Collazo, con­victed of trying to assassinate President Truman in 1950. The 25th anniversary reference to revolution apparently referred to this assassination attempt. The FALN also demanded free­dom for four persons convicted 
of wounding five congressmen in a 1954 shooting incident in the House of Representatives. The four shouted "Freedom for Puerto Rico" as they fired. 
The bombs went off in the three cities in rapid succession. The first came at the National Westminster branch on Wall Street at 1:43 a.m. EST. The Continental Bank in Illinois was hit at 1:55 a.m. At 2 a.m., came the explosions at the IBM 
building in Chicago, at the State Department in Washing­ton and at a First National City Branch on Wall Street in New York. 
Sixteen minutes later, bombs went off at the Chase branch on 57th Street just east of Fifth Avenue and at a First National City Branch on 57th Street just west of Fifth. The last bomb at 
the U.S. Mission, exploded at 
2:30 a.m. 
The Monday incidents touch­ed off bomb threats and scares. Chicago police received a tele­phone warning of further ex­
plosions  and  searched  76  down­ 
town  buildi ngs.  They  found  
nothing.  

Acting on the recommenda­tion of the FBI office in Chi­cago, officials evacuated the Capitol and nearby buildings in Springfield, Ill. 
In Atlanta, Ga., authorities sealed off the federal building while they investigated a gray box left on a loading dock. A bomb expert with a stethoscope discovered that the 3-foot-by­l'"·foot box contained a mail sack. 

Representative 
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
to be on campus 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3 
Graduate study information -all fields of Letters, Arts& Sciences Special emphasis on Social Sciences Contact Placement Bureau 283 -6255 
······························~
•
• PEACH TREE : 
: • DINING ROOM • : • RANDALL' I • 


: WEDNESDAY NIGHT SPECIAL• : FRIED CHICKEN ! 
• MASH E 0 POT ATOES-SALAD-HOT BISCUITS e
• 
e ALL YOU CAN EAT WITH TillS COUPON: e
• $2 70 5 CENTS FOR FIRST !­
• • BEER (WITH DINNER Ia
• 




DFFANY&CO. 
CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE • ZIP: 60611 • TEL: (312) 944-7506 
Add one dollar for shipping and handling plus safes tax where applicable American Express • BankAmericard 

·-------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, October 28, 1975 
the observer 
7 

A~ntrak service to start today; route to incIude South Bend 

by Pat Cunl'o Railroad Passenger Corporation in the historical lakefront city at
SJ>nnson•d by tht' OMBUDSMAN SERVICE \Amtrak), federal, state and local 
Staff Hl'porter Union Station.
1\londay thru Friday 9::10 to 5:00 officials, members of the press and Today's ceremonies at South1\lnnday thru Thursday 9:00 pm to Midnite Amtrak and railroad officials.
Amtrak train service will begin 

Bend's partially-refurbished South 
Jlhnm• :!K:I-76:1K operating between Chicago, Bost­Each train is expected to consist Shore depot will be attended by 
on and New York on the of two coaches and one sleeping Mayor Jerry Miller, local officials 
<l. What an• thr maximum credit hour loads for the various car in its Chicago-New York
"Lakeshore Limited" today. 

and the City's Bi-centennial Drum
t·ollrgt•s? The new line is an experimental section and three coaches and a and Fife Corps.
sleeping car in the Chicago-Boston 
route which will run for two years. 

Jerry Hammes, president of the A. For the colleges of Engineering and Business Administration t­After two years, it will be run. 
South Bend Chamber of Com­
he maximum load is 18 credit hours while for the colleges of reexamined by the Secretary of In addition, the train will carry a merce, said the fight for the newScience and Arts and Letters and the Freshman Year of Studies Transportation to determine dining car and lounge-food service 
car. Amtrak line was spirited by the
Program it is 17 credit hours. These maxima exclude Air Force whether it will become a per­Chamber since 1970.
AProspace, military and Navy studies. For graduate students the manent system. A baggage car and crew dor­maximum is 15 credit hours and at the 500-600 !evel it is 12 credit Westbound, Lakeshore Limited mitory car are also included. 
Advot·atl'd NPw St'rvict'
hours. Only with permission of the college dean upon the recom­will leave Boston daily at 2:40p.m. John Kagel, director of tran­mendation of the department chairman, can a student take more and New York City at 6:15 p.m. sportation of the South Bend "We fought for the creation of than these allotted hours and will be charged additional tuition per The two trains will combine at Chamber of Commerce said the Amtrak rail service," he tTedit hour accordingly. A student taking less than 12 hours is Albany and go westward, arriving Amtrak personnel would be on stated. "We have appeared at considered a part time student by the University. in South Bend at I :40 p.m. the duty daily from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. several federal and regional 
following day. to answer questions, sell tickets, or hearings." 
(l. \\'hl'n did graduatl' studies begin at Notre Dame? Traveling east, the train will "We actively engaged in letter­
take any reservations for the U.S. 
leave South Bend at 5:10 p.m. writing campaigns to generate
Amtrak svstem.
A.Aithough there weregraduate studies as early as the 1920's, the 1EST) and will arrive the following interest among other cities and
Kagel aiso stated that the station 
present graduate school was not established until1944. day in New York at 12: 15 p.m. and states and have prepared formal
grounds and structure will be
Boston at 4:20p.m. petitions annually since 1970 to
completely refurbished and land­
(l. What is t·urrrntly on display in the Art Gallery? The Lakeshore Limited will support and fight for this service,"
scaped very soon.
A. An l'xhibit opened this weekend of the works of Indiana artist bring Cleveland, the largest Hammes noted. Victor Higgins, now working out of Taos, New Mexico. This exhibit American city currently without Station Hennovatl'd Amtrak was born in May of 1971 will be on display until December 21. intercity rail passenger service, when Congress ·mandated that 
back into the Amtrack system. Over $300,000 was spent by Amt-passenger service on 13 major 
<l. 
llow many pt'opll' rt'sidl' in the South Rl'nd-Mishawaka area? rak to renovate the downtown railroads be joined under the Houtrs Described facility where alterations have Amtrak organization to reverse 

A. 
Approximately 160,000. been made on the track and signal the 20-year downturn on railroad 


Cities included on the Boston­building and new platform. ridership. ACTION l':XPHESSincorrectly reportedin the October 21 issue of Chicago segment are South Bend, Crosswalksand passenger The rail service is currently the OBSERVER that the gilding of the Golden Dome is financed by Elkhart: Toledo, Elyria and shelter for eastbound oassengers operating at a net loss but has 
the government. The University pays for the gilding in full. Cleveland, Ohio: Erie, Pa.; have also been installed made a significant upswing in the Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse, Ut­Several cities along the infant last four years.ica and Albany-.Rensselaer. N.Y.; route are planning ceremonies for Reistrup commented, "No one 
Pittsfield, Springfield, Worcester, 

the initial run. expects to make money. They just 
l<'ramingham and Back Bay, Mass. Erie, Pa., played a large role to want it run like a business." 
Cities on the Albany-New York influence the re-creation of the "There's not a rail passengersegment are Hudson, Rhinecliff, Boston to Chicago run and has operation in the world that's Poughkeepsie and Harmon. scheduled christening ceremonies making a profit," he pointed out. 
Agencies bla1ned 
The line's first train will stop in

lor Food Sta1np loss 
South Bend today at the Amtrak r-------------------------~ WASHINGTON <AP> -The million in stamps was not is­station on the Penn Central I s-T -R -E-T-c -H -~6·~~ I federal government lost some sued to 59,538 eligible house­mainline of the South Shore Depot.ly b d h • .. l·l : t 1 
$711 million during the last half holds which did quality for The train will carry Paul H. our u get & s op at any area ir~~\~ ·. I of 1974 because state and local them. Reistrup, President of the National .8~JV:':,._ 1 1 wPifare agencies certified for So the net losses for that pe­
food stamps about 192,353 Discount dinners I GOODWILL ~~:.:;;~.~ 1
riod were an estimated $132 households that did not legally million, out of $928.88 million in 
available for I STORE <.· ,'~'·:)kp J
qualify, Agriculture Depart­food-starrip benefits paid out to nwnt analysts have estimated. families not entirely on public­An additional $78 million in assistance, Feltner told Dole in 
Jr. Class Formal i;~;:,NN: ~s:: ;~::~:~:E I
food stamps was issued by the letter made available Mon­ToYs those agencies to eligible fami­day. 
I BOOKS JEANS GLASSWARE
lies beyond the amounts they The USDA analysis did not The Junior Class Formal, 
SUPER STORE 1805

wPre qualified to receive, Asst. cover losses on cases involving "Fantasia," will be held Friday, IMI~C. HARD WARE, ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES 
Agriculture Secretary Richard welfare families because its au­Nov. 7, at the Indiana Club, 320 W. WESTERN 282-1030 L l<'eltner has written Sen. dits of errors by state and local .Jefferson, South Bend. Hobert Dole, R-Kan. agencies do not cover those II 
-COUPON­
SOUTH BEND 702

However, Feltner noted $24 households, which are auto­Music will be provided by the matically eligible for the pro­group Paragon from Chicago. gram by law. Tickets will be on sale until Nov. 
I 25% 0 FF ON ALL s. M""· '"""I
Ford and Sadat But. Feltner added, if the loss 7 at the Student Union Ticket Of­rate were the same for those fice. The price is $6 per couple. 220discuss peace families. the cost in federal II WINTER COATS NILES N. II 
FRONT 683-8322
funds would run to $263.8 mil­Junior Class Secretary, Carol 

lion. or 13.7 per cent of the Simmons, has announced that a 10 I I WASHIN<iTON <APl -Ey­$1.93 billion paid out by the fed­per cent discount on dinner will be I (EXPIRES NOV. 3RD) MISHAWAKA I
315

ptian President Anwar Sadat Pral government in the period. available when a dance ticket is 
I I
met for more than an hour with The states administer the presented at the Ice House t N. MAIN 255-0246 I President Ford today at the food-stamp program but con­Hestaurant in the 100 Center in ONE TWE OFFER
I

White House, and they talked tribute no funds to the benefits Mishawaka (259-9925) and at the ••
about how to maintain momen­side of its ledger. Down Under Restaurant, 900 E. I 'NEW' MODERN STYLE LOUNGE CHAIR 
tum toward lasting peace in the 
They do pay half the adminis­Ireland Rd. (291-5131).

Middle East. Ford called the -1 ONLy $8950 I
trative costs and are billed fortalk "excellent." 

the cost of stamps improperly 1t is suggested that dinner '1. WHILE THEY LAST 1 
BPfore the discussion began, reservations be made early. 
I
issued to ineligible families or

Ford said the meeting signaled eligible butoverissued to ones, Any questions can be directed to SHOP YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD GOODWILL STORES AN o BENEFIT FROM I
that progress toward peace in 
Washington is not always able Carol Simmons, or John OUR LOW PRICES ON CHOICE CLOTHING ITEMS AND 110'S OF OTHER
3352,

the Middle East "will not ITEMS TO HELP YOU STRETCH YOUR BUDGET I
to collect.

ston." Donahue' 1765. 
-.



---------------------------· 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED NAVAHO INDIAN GIRL PRINT. For Sail': 1971 Triumph TR-6. Steel Accuralt>, fast typing. Mrs. Lost: LadiPs gold watch, chain 10" x 12", in grePn and brown belt!'d radial tires. Price reduced. Donoho, 232-0746. broken, North Quad. Call 255 7173. 
trame. Stolen last week from Cali 272-2844. after 5 p.m. Reward. DPspPrately need 2 GA tickets for Legal Aid Offici' in Law School. LParn sport parachuting the safe GPorgia Tech. Call Ron 3374. St>nlim!'nlal value to owner. Quality stereo components at 20-40 way at Oxbow Air Sports Center. 2 Lost: Silver bracelet with while 
Pl!'ase return to Lazw School, or percPnt savings. RMS Audio, 321 S. wk. special $35.00 jump course b!'ads and cross at Chicago con Nt>eded: Two or four GA Georgia call 7015 if you havP sePn it. Main. 288-1681. 12-7 pm. plus $15.00 for first jump. Contact cPrl. St>nlimt>nlal valuP. Call 6808. TPch fix. Call Steve at 287-2051. Dail' at 683-8980 or John at 1-782­
Nt>eded: Navy and Ga. Tech 3500. Lost: Copper tramP glass~s; ACC NPPd 2 or 4 GA GPOrgia Tech football fix. Call 287-0742. FOR RENT vicinity or D 1 parking lot 1264. tickPIS. Will pay SS. Help, call IBM SPIPclric II typing, studPnl Mary; 5135. WantPd: 4 GA Navy tickets. Call ratps, dissertations, Linda's Lost: Navy blue WhilE' Slag ski 
Pat at 7128. Room for rent. $50 a month. Sharp LPIIPrS 289-5193. parka. 7802. Nt>Pd rid!' to EvansvillE' on Oct. 31 kilchPn and bath with onp othPr sf and back Nov. 2. Pay part ex­NePd 0111' GA Navy ticket. Call udent. Call 232-9311 or 289-9533. Formal and fad dances taught ppnsPs. MikP 3133. Gregg at 1615. BPforP 10 a.m. or after 5 p.m. each and PVPry TUPS. I'VE'. 7:30-PERSONALS 
9:30, LafortunE' Ballroom. Staff & OnP GPorgia TPch GA ticket StudPnls only. $2 each class. Walk nt'PdPd. Call Tom 1001. FOR S'ALE NOTICES in alonP, group, or couple. Always Got your pumpkin ypl? Stanford & 
a bpglnnprs' IPsson 7:30-8:30 Pvery Farley's carving con!Psl continues Nt•t>d 1 studPnl Navy-N D ticket. TUPS. with pumpkin saiPs at the North Call BPih 5294. "Gay Guide to Notre Dame-South Dining Hall tonight!
B!'nd." OnP dollar. AvailablE' at TRICK OR TREAT DANCE Fri.
Top quality stereo components ,

Wanted: 2 GA fix for Navy gamP. Pandora's or wri!P P.O. Box 206, Nlie · SIPpan Center. Sponsored by Girls wan!Pd to improve MBA's
factory sealed, full warranty, at 

Call 4694. Notre DamP, ln. 46556. Lyons, St. Ed's, NO Social Com­social life. InquirE' to: Roger D.,
supPr studPnl discounts. Call Elliott Enterprises at 233-3769 

mission. P.O. Box 723, NolrP Dame, In­Nt>ed GA Navy & Ga. Tech & Pill Frep ride to Mass. for diana.
after 6 p.m.

fix. 1652. Thanksgiving to any senior over 21 willing to sign for a rented van. LOST & FOUND Dear Pat.
Jewelry: finished pieces, coral, 
Other riders to pay all PXpPnses. 

Happy anniversary one day latP. Call 1022 after 5:00, ask for Jim.
Nt•Pd ride to Chicago, Friday Oct. turquoisP, s!Niing, diamonds, 
It's bPen a grpaf two ypars. --------7063. Ft>male Housemate(s) wanted Love, Joyce Need 3 Pitt tlx. Call 3332 or 3334. now and next semester. 5 min. 
31. Call Anne, 7836. Pngagement SP!s. Low prices. 234­
Lost: One gold knit sports hat at P.S. How do you expect me to For Sale: TPxas Ins!. SR-10. Ex­walk to Angela-NO AvP. Call 
lhP Rally Friday night. Please makP your bed when you'rp still In NPPd 1 GA ticket for Navy. Call cellent condition. Will tak~ bPs! bPIW~Pn 5 p.m. and 10 p.m. 289­
rpturn t Tom, 232 Stanford or catt it? Shots!, 289 8800. offer. CaII 4960. 
4303. 8650. RPward offered: 6-pack. 



Tuesday, October 28, 1975
the observer

8 
Irish hockey -ready for rebound 
­
by Tom Kruczek Irish fiished 23-14-1, second in the perienced. "The heart of yourWestern Collegiate Hockey team is down the middle, at center 

After two less than sensational Association. defense and goal where you havet~ seasons the Notre Dame hockey Charles "Lefty" Smith, the man have people that you can depend on team is in need of a complete responsible for bringing varsity time and again. This year we have turnabout. In the last two years hockey back to Notre Dame is those people." 
,the Irish have lost 42 times, while pleased with the way his team Smith then outlined his plans for 
winning just 27 and tying 5, not a looks thus far in preparation for t­the lines this year. great mark by anyones standards. he season. "We're very pleased "Our first line will be the And yet, Notre Dame comes into with the leadership that we're productive Brian Walsh, Clark this campaign which will begin getting from our captains Pat Hamilton and Alex Pirus line." This 
October 31 at Michigan State, with Novitzki and Brian Walsh. We're trio last year accounted for 160 the hope of one of the best seasons working hard and very pleased points and 275 minutes in penalties in the history of t be varsity with the new attitude we're and this time off the icP. must be program. showing on the ice." cut down. "This is one thing that 
Why this seemingly insane opt­As for last year's problems, we are working on now," Smith imism? First of all, out of the top Smith attributed much of the' said. We have to cut down on 50-75 ten point-getters for the squad, difficulty to the loss of Paul Clarke percent of our penalty minutes nine are returning. The National and Roger Bourque due to from last year, and we think Hockey League in the off-season academic ineligibility and the that we can do it." drafted seven players <Alex Pirus, injuries to Novitzki and Peterson. The second lnie will feature Don Clark Hamilton, Kevin Nugent, Novitzki hurt his thigh in the first Fairholm at the center, with Allen 
Paul Clarke, Roger Bourque, half of the season and missed the Karsnia and Kevin Nugent on the Jack Brownschidle, Len Moher) entire second half. Peterson suf­wings. The third line will be Geoff from the returning team Both Len fered a severe burn on his foot. Collier in the center with Don Moher and John Peterson return in. scalding it at the conclusion of first Jackson and Ray Johnson the goal after a geJ"'P.rally good semester and missed a couple of flanking on both sides. year that gave both much needed weeks of practice just when he was Defensively ,the Irish should be t-xperience. Also this year's team beginning to develop consistency strong with all three tandems well­has a new attitude concerned with in goal. versed in experience. Jack putting the mistakes of the past This year, however Smith em­Brownschidle and Clarke will be t­behind them and returning to the phasized that the Irish are amuch he number one pair, followed by winning wavs of 1972-73 when the more solid team and better ex-Bourque and Dick Howe. The third 
pair will be Novitzki and either Dave Bossy or Danny Byers. 
In the goal Len Moher and John Peterson will again alternate. Both h~ve looked good in the preseason With Moher coming off a sensational 
*Observer 
rookie year. The sophomore from Wellesley,Mass. had a 4.3 goals against average while Peterson finished with a 5.2 average. Pet­erson however showed tremendous improvement over the year.




Sports 
Smith had a good opportunity to see the new attitude in action last Thursday, when the Irish defeated Western Michigan 7-4 in an exhibition game. The most 
Nicholson spurs Pangborn w-in 
by Sam Willis back to punt, Morrissey's Wes, Using runs by Gerald Miles, 
There was a little bit of Schroeder broke through the line Fisher reached the Off-Campus everything in Sunday's Interhall and blocked the punt. Defensive 20. A 15 yard holding cost heavily football contests: good defense, tackle Bill McManus scooped up and Fisher could not recover its 
broken plays, scoring, and one the ball and rambled 43 yards for momentum. Neither team outstanding individual offensive a touchdown. Glen Sturm kicked threatened from that point on. effort. the extra point. Dillon 14 Alumni 0 Sorin drove the ball deep into Pangborn 15 Howard-St. Ed's 0 Morrissey's territory. Quar­
The Dillon defense exhibited terback John Romanelli then Pangborn used some tight
its form of old as it shut out lofted a four-yard pass that was defense and a dazzling per­Alumni 14 to 0. The best Alumni gathered in by Bob Hogan. Ben formance by Joey Nicholson tocoHld offer was not enough. They Marshall attempted a drop kick down Howard-St. Ed 15-0.
couldn't put more than two or for the conversion but it was wide After a safety gave Pangborn athree good plays together. 
Mickey Gleason raced around and Morrissey held on for the two point lead, Nicholson went to 
win.
the end for 30 yards on an option work. He first got on the board for Dillon's first score. Tim 
with a 37 yard field. Nicholson Holroyd converted the extra Fisher 0 Off-Campus 0 made it 8-0 with a 42 yard field goal.
point. Later in the game Dillon 
In a game where the defenses
drove to the Alumni one yard line When a Pangborn drive where quarterback Bill Griffin 
dominated meager offenses, stalled, Nicholson was called on Fisher and Off-Campus battled again to try a 52 y arder. The snap snuck the ball over for the touch­
to a scoreless tie. from bad, and the
down. Holroyd converted to close center was 
the scoring. Off-Campus used short bursts holder tossed the ball to by running back Bob Zerk to Nicholson. Nicholson rolled
Morrissey 7 Sorin 6 move the ball to the Fisher 3 yard around the end and scamperedMorrissey's offense could not 
line. But Fisher's defense 
into the end zone in his bare feet!
get on track, but their defense tightened and the scoring threat He then capped his scoring show 
came up ~ith the ~ig play to ended when Gerald Wilson broke when he split the uprights for hisedge Sorm 7 to 6. 
the line to block a 19 thirteenth point.
On fourth and lone: with Sorin 
Despite this catch, the interhall offenses were less potent Sunday evening. 

promising point of the game was t­hockey before coming back to Not­he fact that the team came from a re Dame this year to pursue4-2 deficitin the first period, to graduate work and to coach.score twice in the second frame "We possess a good attitude soand three more times in the third far, and I think the big thing is that period. Goal scorers were Pirus, the guys are iust tired of losing,"and Walsh in the first period, Schafer observed_ "We've alsoJohnson and Karsnia in the second, 
altered our ways and our
and Tim Byers, Bourque and philosophy." Schafer will split his Jackson in the final period. time between helping with thePeterson also had a good game, coaching duties and traveling tomaking 13 saves in the final period scout opposing teams and highof action. school prospects.The other new facet of the team Of course talk of new attitudesis the addition of Rick Schafer as without action means little but ifthe assistant to Smith. Schafer Thursday's performance against
was the team co-captain in 1973-74 Western Michigan was any in­with Steve Currv. 
Last year after a three week stay dication, then the season for the with the Minnesota Fighting Saints 
Irish hockey team will be a tur­nabout from the last two years and of the World Hockey Association, winning hockey will return toSchafer went to Olten, Switzerland Notre Dame.
to coach and play 
Women's IH playoffs set 
Farley's third touchdown cameby Eileen O'Grady when halfback Chris Datzman ran
Women's lnterhall football 
50 yards around the right end forcompleted their regular season the score. Datzman again took thelast week. Lewis beat Lyons 12-6 ball and ran straight up the middle 
and Farley defeated Walsh 19-7. 
for Farley's only successfulNext week the play-offs will be conversion.
Tuesday afternoon. Top-ranked 
Walsh also saw most of its £of­Lewis will play third place Walsh fensive attack in the second half. Aat 4: 15. Lyons in second place will 50 yard pass-run combination from play fourth ranked Farley at 5:15. 
quarterback Anne Eisels to
The winners of these two games halfback Becky Thorton set upwill play the championship on their only touchdown.
Thursday at 4:30. 
They scored on a pass to tightLewis 12 Lyons 6 end Pat Burke who ran 20 yards for the score. On another pass fromIn this predominantly running Eisele to offensive takcle Nancygame, the Lewis offense picked up Kirn, Walsh successfully gaineda touchdown in each half. The first the extra point.
one came on a fake criss-cross pass from quarterback Byrne Murphy to tight end Anne Berges who was wide open. Lyons was 
AP Polls
able to prevent the conversion. 
Halfback Sue Behnke, gaining over 100 yards total rushing during The AP Top Twenty the course of the game, scored the The Top Twenty teams in other touchdown after a long i The Associated Press college sustained drive. Scoring from the Ifootball poll, with first-place Lewis ?O yard line, Behnke ran up Ivotes in parentheses, season the .middle on an option play. records and total points. Points Agam there was no conversion. basedon20-18-16-14-12-10-9-8-7-6­
Lyons scored in the second half 5-4-3-2-1 : 
on a hand-off Patty Kulick  from quarterback to Terry Welsh  l.Ohio St. (50) 7-0-0 2.0lahoma (8) 7-0-0  1,190 1,084  
playing halfback. Lewis prevented the extra point.  3.Nebraska (2)7-0-0 4.S. Calif. ( 1 l 7-0-0 5.Texas A&M 7-0-0  939 890 632  
Farley 19 Walsh 7  6.Alabama 7.Michigan  6-1-0 5-0-2  609 584  
In this second of Farley's rallies the first half was fairly uneventful: The only score came with two minutes left in the half. Farley safety Meg Hackett caught a pass from quarterback Maria Choca and ran 35 yards for the first touch­down.  8.Texas 6-1-0 9.Penn St. 7-1-0 10.Ariz. St. 7-0-0 11.Fiorida 6-1-0 12.Missouri 5-2-0 13.UCLA 5-1-1 14.Maryland 5-1-1 15.Notre Dame 5-2-0  516 459 342 293 183 151 108 62  
In the second half, Hackett again took over. Intercepting two Walsh passes, Hackett ran 25 yards for a second touchdown and picked up another 15 yards on the second interception.  16.Colorado 5-2-0 17.Arizona 5-1-0 18.San Diego St. 7-0-0 19.Miami, Ohio 6-1-0 t tiel Okla. SL 5-2-0  52 41 34 33 33  




