OD The Inside 
Hesburgh's letter ... page 4 Free University .•. page 3 



s•rvlng the notre dome -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 71 Friday, January 31, 1975 
Calls SLC's revision ambiguous and inapplicable 

Hesburgh vetoes sexuality rule 
by Pat Hanifin Staff Reporter 
University President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh vetoed Wednesday the Student Life Council's revision of the University sexuality rule which would have given the handling of sexual misconduct which is not "flagrant, perverse or repeated after previous war­ning" to the rectors rather than the Dean of Students. 
Hesburgh's veto message called the proposal "unacceptable because it was ambiguous and con­ditioned as to be impossible of application" and would destroy a "uniform standard of enforcement throughout the campus." He called for treatment of misconduct according to the "Christian standard ...that has long existed here and hopefully persists to this day." 
The SLC members had not been officially informed of the veto as of yesterday night but most of those contacted were unsurprised. Reactions varied as to whether the Council could agree on a rule acceptable to Hesburgh and as to the veto's effect on the current debate over charges that the SLC is ineffective. 
Background 
For several years preceding 1973 there was no ex­plicitly stated sexuality rule. Partially in response to the Lewis Hall incident in which a foreign graduate student was expelled for having a male guest staying in her dorm the Council incluatJ a sexuality rule in the revision of the regulations. 
The rule, which continues to apply, states the 
University's philosophy on human sexuality and 
concludes by saying "The University believes that 
sexual union should occur only in marriage." This 
rule was applied in the Dillon case and the suspension 
of the six football players. 
Opposition to the rule on the grounds that it was 
vaguely worded and applied with excessive strictness 
led to an initial revision setting expulsion from the on-campus community as the maximum penalty. Hesburgh vetoed this last fall on grounds of ambiguity, leniency and because it ignored the off-campus situation. 
The SLC hammered out the just-vetoed second revision in a four-meeting long debate and sent it to Hesburgh lst November. Some members suggested that it might be rejected. 
Upholding Standards 
Hesburgh stressed yesterday the "upholding of the standards the flow from Notre Dame being a Catholic university" as the crucial factor in his decision. 
"When we say we are a Catholic instituion there are certain principles which follow and on which I am taking my stand," Hesburgh said. "The sexuality rule follows from Basic Christain ethics and from the essential way this place is run. Not everyone here is Catholic or even Christian but they should respect the Catholic stance of Notre Dame." 
Hesburgh stated flatly that he would not accept a 
change in this basic policy and aruged tha_t the 
University's standards would become hollow Without 
the possibility at least in extreme cases of demanding 
respect for the standards on pain of suspension or 
expulsion. 
"I hope that the students will accept these standards 
and the great majority do," Hesburgh said, "but we 
must uphold these standards whether they are popular 
or not whether the administration is popular or not." 
Hesburgh noted that the President of the University 
is vested with "all power" to govern the University and 
suggested that he could institute a rule without going 
through the SLC. However he stressed he would do so 
only in a case where the normal decision-making 
process breaks down and also stressed that the present 
rule was "acceptable" relieving him of any need to 
intervene in that matter. 
In his veto fo the first revision of the sex rule 

Hesburgh pleased with work on Presidential Clemency Board 
by Tom Drape_ Editor-in-£'hief 

Once described as an outspoken ad­vocate of unconditional amnesty, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University president, last September accepted an appointment to the Presidential Clemency Board. Five months and two thousand cases later, he has no regrets. 
Assessing President Ford's amnesty program as being basically good yet complicated, Hesburgh expressed special pleasure with yesterday's announcement that the application deadline for clemency had been extended 30 days. Applications had been scheduled to end at midnight tonight. 
"It really wasn't until after the television spots over Christmas · by General Walt and myself did the ap­plications really begin arriving," Hesburgh observed. He said the small number of applications were due to the lack of communication and publicity up until that time. This was the same argument that Charles Goodell, chairman of the Presidential Clemency Board, had presented to Ford in requesting the ex­tension_ 
Slow Start 

Hesburgh admitted to an uneasiness when the board first began meeting because of the strong military backgrounds of five of the nine members. "During the first two months, myself and Vernon Jordan spent most of the meeting time trying to get the group to see that these were the ones who really needed clemency; the ones at the bottom of the pile," Hesburgh said. 
Besides Goodell, one of the Senate's 
leading doves until 1970, and Jordan, the 
executive director of National Urban 
Leagues, Hesburgh serves on the board 
with, Lewis Walt, a retired Marine 
general, Robert Finch, former HEW 
secretary under Nixon, Mrs. Aida Casanas 
O'Connor, and assistant counsel to the 
New York State division of Housing in New 
York City, James P. Dougovita, a veteran 
and captain in the Michigan National 
Guard, Ralph Adams, Troy . St~te 
University president and a bngad1er Hesburgh criticized the present rule as ambiguous. While he still believes f:his to be true he stated yesterday that "it is sufficiently clear so that students know where they stand" and in his veto message said that in the absence of anything better "I can live wih the rules as presently stated." 
The veto letter, addressed to Frank Flanagan, student body vice president and chairman of the SLC, suggested two critieria for writing rules in this area: an acceptable rule should be unambiguous ana should be "workable!' at least in the sense of enforceable. 
(continued on page 6) 

Meanwhile Hesburgh praised President Ford's announcement of a one-month extension for clemency applicants. 

Anmesty: two views 
Editor's Note: 
After an application for clemency is received, Justice Department l~wyers compile a two-page resume on the petitioner. Below are examples o_f sum~anes J!re~e~ted to members of the Presidential Clemency Board. Each case IS considered md1v1dually by the board. 
This applicant is white, in his early twenties, and one of three children. His father was prevented from working because of a heart condition. Having dropped out of school in the ninth grade, he was the sole support of his father and sister before he was drafted_. One month after his induction, he attempted to obtain a weekend pass because of h1s father's worsening condition. When the pass was refused, he went AWOL. He was absent for over three years, as he worked to support his family and his father. He is married and has two children, but his wife suffers from curvature of the spine and is 
unable to work. He was sentenced to seven months confinement and a Bad Conduct Discharge. He served nearly six months in prison. 
Disposition: Executive Clemency, 3 months alternate service. Upon completion of alternative service, Clemency Discharge and Pardon. 
This applicant, who is white and married, was raised in a Midwestern town in a middle-class family. Following his graduation from college with a degree in ac­counting, he submitted a request for classification as a conscientious objector. He also attempted to meet his alternative service obligation by first teaching in a public school for 4 months, and later working for a year in a hospital. However, both his application and appeals were denied and after refusing to submit to induction, he was convicted and sentenced to 18 months in prison. Prior to his furlough, he had served approximately 8-1f2 months. 
Disposition: Pardon 
general in the Alama Air National Guard, and James Maye, executive director of the "Paralyzed Veterans of America." 
"At the time, I felt it was terribly im­portant to get the thing going and on some compassionate basis," Hesburgh recalled. 
He feels that all of the members have now moved away from personal biases. 
'Badmouthed by Many' 
The ND president also attributed the poor early results to the 'badmouthing' the program received by many of the groups who had wanted complete unconditional amnesty. 
Accusing the American Civil Liberties Union and various religious groups as being wrong in advisinl'! young men to Ignore the program, Hesburgh said that he too had before strongly desired un­conditional amnesty. Nevertheless, he couldn't "in the final analysis ignore any program that got people out of jail." 
Hesburgh receives mail daily . from people on the left criticizing the program. "However, all I can tell them is that while they sit in their corners nursing their ideologies, l'm helping to remove the burdens of AWOL or aesertion from young men." 
Under the clemency guidelines, those qualifying for either an unconditional pardon or conditional clemency have their civil rights restored. 
Three Different Programs 
Additional confusion, according to i!!·> •"1rgh, has arisen over the three-dif­fPrent programs within Ford's amnesty program. The clemency program was part of a 'earned return' policy that Ford announced last September. It was coupled with a conditional amnesty program, run by the Departments of Defense and Justice, for men who were charged or under investigation for similar offenses but not yet convicted. 

The Presidential Clemency Board deals only with those who were convicted of 1\WOL or Selective Service offenses committed between August, 1964 and September, 1973. Civilian draft violators who were convicted and served time may receive a presidential pardon. Those who were court-martialed or given undesirable discharges are eligible for a pardon and clemency discharge. 
Draft resisters and deserters who have not been convicted or sentenced fall under the jurisdiction of the Justice department. 
Hesburgh suggested that all cases should have been put under the jurisdic­tion of the Clemency Board. By doing so, he said, fewer would have been discouraged by the complicated procedures. 
His Work Encouraging 
Despite the large amount of man hours that the cases before the Clemency Board have required, Hesburgh said he is en­couraged with each case pardoned. He referred to the board's meeting last month at which 13 unconditional pardons , 14 additional conditional pardons with alternate service sentence between 1 and 4 months were granted. 
Hesburgh said the statistics must be examined carefully before jumping to conclusions. For example, only 2 to 3 per cent of those eligible for amnesty have come forward. Yet, the approximately 9 per cent who were convicted received immediate release when the program began and have remained free. 'These were the poorest of the poor who we have managed to reach," Hesburgh said. 
"l believe people need to um;lerstand 
that the real benefit is the unconditional 
(continued on page 2) 


the observer Friday, January 31, 1975 
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The nation's big city mayors said Thursday their cities are in a fiscal crisis and called on Congress for a one-shot $5 billion aid program to bail them out. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Rep. Don Edwards, D-Calif., said Thursday he has asked the General Accounting Office to in­vestigate the FBI's domestic intelligence gathering activities. 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Two large oil companies, Gulf and Sun, Thursday reported a decline in profit for the last quarter of 1974 but big gains in profit for the year. 
WASHINGTON-The air traffic controller who gave TWA flight 514 a fatal landing approach clearance says his only responsibility toward the plane wa~ to keep it from colliding with other aircraft. 
WASHINGTON-Vice President Rockefeller reportedly told associates that former FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover's refusal to cooperate led to illegal domestic spying by the CIA. 
an campus taday 
Friday, Jan. 31 

4pm--swim meet, nd vs. wayne st., rockne mem. pool. s pm--mass and dinner, bulla shed, all welcome 5 pm--evensong vespers, log chapel. 6 pm-2 am--mardi gras, stepan center. 7,9,11 pm--woody allen movie, "everything you always wanted to know about sex ... ", eng. aud., $1. 9 pm-1 am--smc coffeehouse, 9 pm-shella rafferty, 10 pm-david james, 11 pm-paul weddle, 12 pm-jerry all. 
Saturday, Feb. 1 
12 noon-2 am--mardi gras, stepan center. 
2 pm--swim meet, nd vs. marshall, rockne mem. pool. 
2 pro--basketball, nd vs. xavier, ace. 
4 pm--mime auditions, o'laughlln aud. smc.5 pm--evensong 
vespers, log chapel. 
7,9,11 pm--movie, sleeper, eng. aud., $1. 
8:30 pm--moot court, thurgood marshall, mem. lib. aud. 9 pm-2 am--north quad party, north dining hall. 
Sunday, Feb. 2 
12 noon-12 midnight--mardi gras, stepan center.2 pm--mime auditions, o'laughlin aud. smc. 
4:30 pm--evensong vespers, log chapel. 


Hesburgh disc,,sscscunnesty 
(continued from page 1) 
pardon. It restores a man's civil rights and allows him to obtain licenses and enter trades and profession before barred to him. But only by coming forward and applying can such individuals become self-supporting again," Hesburgh said. 
The board's limited success so far is contrasted to Truman's clemency board after World War II by the University president. "Out of 15 million men who came home in uniform, only 15 thousand cases wt•re reviewed and only 1300 pardons granted," he noted. 
Too Time Consuming 
require so much time. "On the 
average, we put 4 or 5 hours of 
review into each case," he 
estimated. "This amounts to twice 
the time I had allotted when I first 
accepted the position." 
Although he will not confirm it, Hesburgh indicated that he may have to withdraw from the board sometime during the next six months. Besides university responsibilities, he also actively heads up the Overseas Develop­ment Council on world hunger. 
Hesburgh credits President Ford with at least initiating an amnesty program "which is more than I may say about his predecessor." 
"Although he <Ford) has tried to play it down the middle, he did start some program," Hesburgh said. 
Gold Rush '75 



Mardi Gras begins tonight 
by Don ReimPr Staff Reporter 
Mardi Gras, Gold Rush '75 will begin its week-long festivities tonight at 6 p.m. with activities running until 2 a.m. Twenty-four booths will be in operation, sponsored by various hall and clubs. 
The Mardi Gras committee has scheduled entertainment throughout the week, including several bands, a free concert, and a karate exhibition, which Tuesday night Committee Chairman Sullivan said "will oresent N.D.'s answer to David Carridine-Tae Kwon Do." 
Bands scheduled to play this weekend are: Wind, appearing Friday and Saturday nights, and Samba on Sunday evening. The bands will begin playing about 9 _p.m according to Sullivan. A special concert will be given by folk artist Steve Goodman on Thursday night beginning at 8:30 pm. 
The traditional raffle did poorly this year according to Sullivan. "We received a very poor response and we were bitterly disap­pointed," said Sullivan. He ex­plained that not one hall on campus had met their quota in selling tickets. 
Most of the booths will feature poker and blackjack, and the procedures are being taken against cheating. "We will have a 

security  force  on  hand  at  all *~ Music by EDEN ROCK  
Err atum  : North Quad Residents Free  
Irwin  Press,  professor  of  : All others $1an­ 

thropology, stated that the faculty should evaluate the administration every five years, not every year as he had been quoted in an Observer article appearing Tuesday, Jan. 28. 
'The Observer is published dally during the college sem~ter except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame •nd St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S9 per semester (S16 per year) from The Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Uncle Willie's Fatal Glass of Beer daily specials: 


Al\on-Thurs 12-6 pm 
1 frosted mug 25q: soq: sandwiches: hamburgers cheeseburgers polish sausage kosher dogs TUESDAY & . . 
SATURDAy P1tcher N1ght 
pitcher $1.25 Fri. &Sat. noon-6 pm hotdogs 1oq: These Specials Every Week 
times," warned Sullivan, "and any forecast about this year's Mardi 
dealer or player caught cheating Gras, Sullivan said, "We all 
will be turned over to Dean of worked hard and I certainly hope 
Students Macheca. "Booths are that it will be a success." 
responsible for their own conduct Admission prices on Fridays, 
and will be subject to fines or Saturdays and Thursday will be 
suspension for any violations." one dollar. On the remaining days 
Declining to make a definite admission will be 75 
MARDI GRAS preparations near completion. tonight in Stepan Center. 
************************************ 

: NORTH QUAD PARTY ~ 
* *
i SATURDAY NIGHT Feb. 1 ~ ~ 9:00 -2:00 ~ ~ at the North Dining Hall ~ 
*~ ~ 

**********************~********** 

Milano's Pizza 
412 N. Hill Street 
(next to Simari's Bar) open 4 pm daily 287-2891 10 % off with this ad 

Ford extends deadline on amnesty 
WASHINGTON <UPI) President Ford Thursday gave some 100,000 young Americans another month to seek amnesty for evading military service during the Vietnam War. 
The program had been scheduled to end at midnight Friday, but because of the rush of applications in recent weeks, Ford extended the life of the Clemency Board to March 1, and said: 
"I believe that many of those who could benefit from it are only now learning of its application to their cases." 
The clemency program for convicted draft evaders and military deserters is part of an "earned return" policy that Ford announced last Septem­ber, coupled with a conditional amnesty program run by the Departments of Justice and who were charged or under investigation but not yet convic­ted. 
Press Secretary Ron Nessen, who read the President's statement to reporters, said the entire program is being extend­ed for 30 ht push the deadline beyond March 1 if the upsurge in applications continued, Ness­
en  said  "I  don't  know  of  any  
plans  to  do that."  
During  the  first  four  months  


Campus Life Commission planning 'Free University' 
by Jeff Pecore Staff Reporter 

After successfully establishing the Nazz coffeehouse last semester, the Campus Life Commission of the Student Government is instituting a second project for the benefit of the entire Notre Dame community---The Free University. 
Headed by Ralph Pennino, Nazz founder, the Free University will offer courses on anything and everything that a student, faculty member and or administrator has a special interest in and would be willing to teach. 
''The basic idea of the Free University is to offer non-graded, non-credit courses for the personal t>njoyment of the student at no extra cost," Pennino said. "The courses are meant to be informal, 'off the top of the head', so that they won't be considered a chore to teach. It should also be clear that anyone in the Notre Dame com­munity can originate and teach a course in the Free University: students, faculty members, and administrators alike." 
Growth of "Renaissance Man" 
Pennino emphasized that the courses can be based on prac­tically anything" and that the teacher has total freedom on how to run the course, how large the class will be, and when it will meet. 
"If a teacher wants to give just 
one lecture on his topic and open it 
to the entire University, that can 
be arranged," said Pennino. "It is 
also possible to create a 
minicourse that would last several 
weeks instead of the entire 
semester. "You might say our 
philosophy is to encourage the 
growth of the 'Renaissance Man'," 
Pennino added. 
The concept of the Free 
University was put into practice at 
Notre Dame five years ago by a 
student named Rick Libewitz and 
continued until 1973. The idea 
began as an alternative to struc­
tured University courses and 
developed into a forum for people 
with special interests and hobbies. 
Courses offered by the Free 
University of 1973 ranged from 
juggling to bicycling and were 
highly successful. 
"We plan to offer a great variety 
of courses in this year's Free 
University also," Pennino stated. 
"We already have such courses as 
'Volkswagon Repair' and 'Film as 
Medium' scheduled." 
Courses available 

Pennino said that there are fourteen courses available at this point but that "courses can be added anytime during the semester by calling me at the 
Erratum 

Tonight's showings of Woody Allen's film "Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex" will be at 7, 9 and 11 p.m. There is no possibility of a fourth showing as reported in yesterday's issue of the Observer. 
Student Government office." 
Registration for the Free University will be held on Monday and Tuesday of next week from 
9: 00 until 1 : 30 and from 2: 30 until 
5:00 each day. You must register in person at these times by giving your name and course selections to the Student Government secretary at LaFortune who will then inform you of the times and meeting places of the classes. 
"It might also be possible to get into a class in the middle of the semester even if you haven't registered for it, but that would be up to the teacher of the course. We want to let them have all the say on how the courses will run," Pennino commented. 
The following are the courses that will be offered, to date, by the Free University: 
1. 
Volkswagon Repair---Bro. Larry Steward: This course will delve into the aesthetics of the Volkswagon engine. You need a Volkswagon. 

2. 
Tours of Art Gallery---Fr. Conyers: Tours will include the basement and store room of the art gallery at O'Shaughnessy Hall to see the collections not on display. 

3. 
Bt>ginning Guitar---Dennis Klee: For those who would like to learn. 

4. 
Intermediate Guitar---Dennis Klee: For those who know how to play and want to get better. 


5. 
Intermediate Guitar---Lee Hendrick: Lee specializes in "picking". 

6. 
Guitar--Mike Armstrong: Mike is the "Nazz" and knows how to play well. 

7. 
Film as Medium---Tom McGinty: Course will include many films and deep insights. 

8. 
Appreciation of Jazz--Ken Lee: Course designed for all those who attend "Jazz at the Nazz" and don't know what they are listening . to. It is a beginners' course. 

9. 
Classical Music---Mike Chobanian: A course designed for those who have a limited or no background in classical music. 10 Dutch---Fr. Schlaver: 1) Conversational Dutch; basics of the Dutch language for linguists, travelers, and "Dutch treaters" 2) European travel: High spots on the continent for low budgets. 11 Jazz Workshop---F. Wishir­chen: For those who know how to play an instrument but have no jazz background. 12 To be announced---Fr. Griffin. 13 Baskt>tball as C'osmos---Bill Principe: This course will ex­


periment with the poetry and flow ot basketball under the influence of. "Wild Turkey". 14 lntermt>diate Drinking---Ralph 
Pennino: Must be 21 or have a fake I .D. This course will include a required liquor list and will evaluate the finer points of alcohol. 

ll"e Cultural Arts Comission Presents 
The WOODY ALLEN , Fi I m Festival 
YOU HAVEN'T SEEN ANYTHING UNTIL YOU'VE SEEN* 
EVERYTHING 


of the clemency program, froPl extend the program for six 
Sept. 16 through the first week months. But he said Thursday 
in January, only about 850 the President "feels there ought applications were received. But to be some kind of a finality so it is expected that by midnight that it doesn't go on forever." 
Friday, as many as 6,000 men Goodell said he urged the will have applied. extension because many men 
The President said his belief eligible for amnesty or clemen­that still more may benefit "is cy are just finding out about . based on a significant increase the program, under which they in the number of applications can get full pardons by the and inquiries over the past few .President, or conditional par­weeks when publicity and dons after serving a maximum communications about the pro-_ of 24 months in public service. gram were greatly expanded." -Goodell, a former Republican 
Board Chairman Charles E. senator from New York who Goodell now estimates that was an ardent critic of the approximately 100,000 men are Vietnam War, discussed the eligible. That figure once was clemency program Thursday on estimated as high as 200,000. the NBC Today show. 
Ford so far has acted on 65 He said he has "great cases: 20 got outright pardons, respect" for the men "who and one-third of the remainder opposed and resisted out of were required to serve only principle." But, he said, "I'm three months of alternative not in the business of trying to service. The longest alternate persuade anyone to come back service requirement was a from Canada. We just want to year, assessed against four of be sure they understand what the applicants. ttfe program is and how it is 

Goodell had urged Ford to handled." 
CX>ME TO THE BULLA SHED AND BHING A FRIEND mass & dinner every friday 5 pm 

PRODUCTION 

Produced by JACK GROSSBERG · Executive Producer CHARLES H. JOFFE Wnlten by WOODY ALLEN and MARSHALL BRICKMAN · Dtrected by WOODY ALLEN 
Umtad Artists 

"Everything" Friday, 7, 9, 11 pm "Sleeper" Saturday 7, 9, 11 pm Admission to Each Film is. $1.00 
· All shows in the Engineering Aud 

the observer Friday, January 31, 1975 
Text of Hesburgh letter to SLC 
Dear Frank: 

I must confess to tardiness in responding to your letter in­dicating the Student Life Council's proposed amendments to the university of Notre Dame's rules and regulations concerning human sexuality. There are several good and some bad reasons for my delay. First of all, the Fall was hectic with the unusual demands upon my time occasioned by membership on the Presidential Clemency Board. Secondly, btcause my immediate instinct was to veto the proposed amend­ments, I did want to think about it at greater length and in an at­mosphere of greater leisure, and it was for this reason that I wrote you before Christmas telling you that I would be pondering the matter over the Christmas holidays. The veto is not my favonte style of operation and over 



Junior activities to continue throughout spring semester 
by .John Fl'eney Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame's Junior Class, 
continuing its involvement in the 
many areas of campus life, moves 
into the spring semester with an 
abundance of activities, including 
sponsoring a booth for Mardi Gras 
and donating all proceeds to the 
Junior Class Patron Charity. 
"It was decided last year that 
besides providing a social outlet, 
the class officers want to do 
something meaningful and help 
those less fortunate than our­
selves," explained Augie Grace, 
class president. "We decided to 
form a charity with the money to 
be raised over junior and senior 
years and then make a presen­
tation at graduation," Grace 
added. 
The booth, a replica of Sutter's 
Mill was designed by Bill Dye 
and Terry Hedley. Dealers are needed during Mardi Gras, ac­cording to Grace. Anyone in­terested should contact Augie Grace <1504) or Pat Dore (7443). 
Due to its success last semester, 
several more Happy Hours will be 
held up at Kubiak's in Michigan. 
Grace pointed out, however, that 
these Happy Hours will not be on a 
regular weekly basis. 

"The Happy Hours are not 
scheduled regularly; that is to 
say. they won't be held every 
l<'riday, but only when we can plan
them with the management of
'

K ubi a k 's ' the Junior Class t·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.;::-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::,:::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!::: 
president said. :;:; .Junior Parents Weekend has :::: been scheduled for February 28 ::~: 
through March 2. Weekend ac-:::: 
tivities were explained by chair-::;: man Pat Boyle. :;:: 
..!Wl.IU••I.IIIar~-····~ . 
PARAIIOUIT 1'1tTUIIU PIUUTS AUliEIIT S.IIUIIIIY I'IIIIIICTIOI 
iiiirREYID.DS 
'~.THE LONGEST YARD" 
cot.O~ a.,. TfCHNICCM..OR • A PARA.MOUNT ~CTURE 
:Hgl~~~~~ FOR TIMES 
1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET ICAll 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION};

:;~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::,:,:::,::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::}! ~~----FOR__INFORMA:_11_0N_CAIL ______j
__ __2rl-523) 
many years I have used it most sparingly and only when ab­solutely necessary. Even when I feel obliged to do so, I tend to delay the action, as I believe we all tend to delay those things that are unpleasant. 
It now comes to a point where I can dela~ no longer, having con­sidered and reconsidered the 
matter over  the  Christmas  
vacation  and  the  days  that  
followed  my  return  to  the  

University. As I have indicated to you in our conversations on the matter, this letter has been building in my mind and finally must be written. 
First of all, may I say that I appreciate the fact that the Student Life Council has spent many long and difficult hours discussing this matter. I followed the proceedings through you Minutes and it was obvious that the Student Life Council was having a verv difficult time coming to any 
"The preparations thus far have run very smoothly, with most of the plans completed or near completed," Boyle began. "On Friday night there is a hockey game followed by a cocktail party in the Monogram Room. For Saturday morning we're holding a collegiate workshop," the Weekend Chairman said. 
Boyle urged any junior whose parents are planning to attend to get reservation and application forms in by the February 1 deadline. Any questions should be directed to Pat Boyle (289-2521). 
The Junior Class is tenatively planning a St. Patrick's Day party up at Kubiak's, according to Grace. "Final details have not been completed, but we're plan­ning on reduced prices sililar to Happy Hour and a traditional Irish Band Playin' all night," Grace explained.
* SMC COFFEEHOUSE * 
TONI HT I under the 
900-1:00 
• I

dining hall 
mUSIC n 
munchies 




K..,.--------------------------=
. • 
::;: :::: 
:~::

M I cH I GAN sTREET :;:;:;:; 
=:;: 





ADULT THEATRES 
* 
2 FILMS 
* 
BOOKSTORE 
LIVE FLOOR SHOW

* 
kind of a definite set of recom­mendations. 
To be specific about the amendments that were proposed in your letter, I have no particular problem with your proposed ad­dition, Part I, to be inserted into Paragraph No. 4 of the Preamble on Page 26 of du Lac. 
Part II which you propose to be added as No. 6 on page 27 of du Lac, I find to be completely unacceptable. My reason for this is that the proposed rule is so ambiguous and conditioned as to be impossible of application. 
Any sexual misconduct that is flagrant, perverse, or repeated after a previous warning, or any sexual abuse of another person through coercion and-or violence, may result in suspension or ex­pulsion." 
If we are to have a rule of this sort, it would seem to me that it should simply reflect the standard of the University in this matter. The briefest statement of that standard that I can formulate, one which would be consistent with the practice here over past year, would simply be to say that "serious sexual misconduct incurs serious penalty." This at least is direct, honest and a statement of the practice as it presently exists. Fortunately there has been no such case adjudicated to my knowledge since last summer, but if one were to surface, I think it would be treated according to the brief statement that I have suggested. I am not asking that you adopt what I have suggested, but only saying that what I am suggesting is a more honest statement of our present standard than the one proposed by the Student Life Council. 
The third amendment, Part III, which is propsoed to be added in the place of No. 8 on Page 27 of du Lac, is also unacceptable because it is contrary to the procedure, presently in practice, which in­sures the enforcement of a uniform standard throughout the campus. 
What I have said above regar­ding Part II elucidates my reaction 
to Part III. 

In the best of worlds, I would hope that we would not havP tn have specific rules about human sexuality any more than we shoUld have to have rules about other major precepts of Christian conduct, such as justice, integrity, honesty, or respect for life. However, in an age which wants everything spelled out, I would only say that we should spell it out as simply• and honestly as possible and not formulate rules which are ambiguous and impossible to administer. 
I should add that at the present juncture, I can live with the rules as presently stated, since while perhaps not the best possible, at least they have proved to be workable under the circumstances we have faced in recent years. If one must be more specific, then let it be as briefly and honestly as possible, such as I have suggested. I have the deep conviction, perhaps naive, that for the great majority of students on this campus one might assume a Christian standard of conduct that represents thE kind of standard or sense of value that might be ex­pected of the type of students who come to Notre Dame and who make this place a marvelous Christian community in which to live and grow. There will, of 
course be moral aberrations from time to time, but these can be dealt with in a way consistent with the kind of standard that has long existed here and hopefully, per­sists in our day. 
I should not conclude without thanking all of the members of the Student Life Council for the lengthy considerations they have given to this difficult matter and expressing my gratitude to all of you for your concern for a better Notre Dame. I regret very much that I have to differ with you on the practical results achieved, but then each of us has to be honest with himself or herself in stating our convictions and in exercising reponsibly the power of decision with which we are charged. I do not claim any special wisdom in these matters, but I trust that you will grant to me the exercise of whatever wisdom I possess and the spirit in which it is expressed. I do appreciate your own good spirit and understanding and have no doubt that we are generally united in our commitment to the basic Christian values that make this a very special place in all the world. 
All best wishes. 
Dt>votedly yours in Notre Dame, <Rev.) Theodore M. Hesburgh, c.s.c. President 


OUR LOW LOW PRICED SUPER SPECIAL INCLUDES 
li L 

*SevenN1ghtsattheOoeanfront CALL NT :tDIAXTONA 
HAWAIIAN INN HOTEL Toll free *All Taxes 800·621·4006 i<\CTION :Weekly BEER BLASTS IN ILLINOIS, CALL COLLECT CENTRAL 
Hostess Semce m Daytona 
1312)286 ,7855 

GOOD THROUGHOUT MARCH ARRIVE ANY SATURDAY 

OF SOUTH BEND 
SUNDAY AFTERNOON GOOD TIMES PARTY. 

ENTERTAINMENT 6:00-? 
RANDY MARTIN & THE BUCKWHEAT 
not fancy, not expensive, just a gocx:J fime Come as you are SANDWICH SPECIALS SERVED IN THE GOOD TIMES ROOM 
52!8) U.S. :n M)RI1f, J1Bf M>RIH OF 'DIE 'lU.UlOAD 
5 


Letters to a Lonely God 




the zeal of young christians 
reverend robert griffin 
John was among the first of the young But somehow, John continues to love me get-well card. campus zealots to hang a guilt trip on my and be my friend, though I still feel guilty "Yes, Father Griffin, this is a get well conscience. He was so troubled over the because in an age that demanded heroism, I card, we hope you will be feeling better Vietnam War, and so frustrated at the was merely a comfortable Christian. soon, in the head that is ... Where were you failure of the Peace Movement to end the Next among the zealots pricking the when we had the Right to Life mass??? You bombings, that sometimes I worried about community conscience were . Tom and who means so much to the little ones with his emotional health. He would come by my Tim, but I don't feel worthy of writing about the Charlie Brown Mass and etc. etc. The room, usually at night, wearing a black them. Both of them were so sickened by the next thing we can expect?? would it armband mourning the dead; in twisted, horrors of war and famine, so agitated at be ... the gay Mass ... Most of the articles you tortured rhetoric, as though the words were the indifference they found toward suf­write in the Observer are of the greatest being minted in the inner fires of his private fering, they ended up as suicides. Such fairy tales nature ... Would like to strike a hell, he would tell me of the agony of deaths are too privately arranged for me to serious convPrsation with you, but actually I children and peasants dying in napalmed understand them. There was another Tim, don't believe you could come down to earth villages. Such was John's intensity, and so also, who burned his induction notice in a that long ... " great was his suffering, I feared he would public ceremony on the steps of the Main I have no defense to make against the leave my room some night, douse himself Building, and got sent to jail for the fier­young zealots in the service of humanitarian with gasoline <as he had spoken of doing>, ceness of his pacifism. There were other causes who find my zealotry and set his own flesh on fire, as a way of zealots, too, who made similar gestures of less intense than their own. But if it helps saying, "For Christ's sake, won't someone civil disobedience; but not as much of a them to know, I support the same causes listen when I say: stop the war?" For John, hassle was demanded from them by the they do. I, too, though feebly and inef­
merely being arrested and put in jail authorities. fectually, protested the Vietnam War. I was a small thing, as he said, compared to would trj to fast every day of my life, if I the terror of being maimed and murdered Now, of course, among the contemporary could be sure it would ease the hunger of a on an Asian rice paddy. I knew that it zealots, is AI Sondej. I hope AI doesn't mind single child. As for supporting the right to bothered him that I wasn't the Berrigans; my writing of him, but I see him every day life, I have wept at the decision of couples Phil or Dan, it didn't matter which. Other from my windows. What can I say about AI, choosing to end the life of a foetus. Let me priests were in jail, he implied. What was a except that I love and respect him; and that state clearly and without reservation a commitment to Christ worth if the anointed he drives mt· right up the wall whenever he principle I have lived with for the twenty­servants of the Lord were not risking the tries to instruct me on the statistics of world one years since ordination. I do not believe gentler forms of crucifixion as a protest hunger. I have argued with AI for a long in or support abortion; I never have, and I against the crimes of the Pentagon? time now. I told him in New York last Hope I never will. But I try to believe in 
But. of course. I didn't go to jail. I didn't summer: "You can't do it, AI. You can't people who feel they are forced to consider 
march on Washington, or get my head haunt the doors of the dining hall like a abortion as an alternative choice to having a 
broken open by a police club in a struggle spectre at the wedding feast. The students child. If this appears to be a contradiction, 
with the Chicago cops. I was never maced, won't stand for it. The University won't then I don't know how to be a priest. 
or investigated as an agitator by the C.I.A. I stand for it. I won't stand for it. You would The Peaceniks had their pictures of 
never burned a draft file, or slowed down be wasting your life." Nine thousand napalmed children. The Right to Life 
the work of the bureaucracy by posing as a dollars later, I'm saying: "You can't keep people have their pictures of aborted 
road block to the street traffic in this up, AI." AI gives me a big smile, thanks foetuses that are recognizable as formed 
Washington. I never did anything that was me for the dime I give him, and leaves me human infants advancing toward birth. The 
the least bit heroic as a protest to the war. I feeling angry at the failure of logic. He has Coalition Against Hunger has their pictures, 
can't praise myself for scars I never earned money to feed the hungry, I have the logic. presently hanging around the dorms, of the 
the right to wear like merit badges, because Some bloody arrangement. agony of the world's starving people. 
there are no scars, except for a little nick on Finally among the zealots of the moment There are other pictures, too, especially 
my thumb where I once hurt myself on a who leave me feeling uncomfortable is the the mental pictures. Spend a half hour in 
broken Manhattan glass. anonymous person who recently sent me the the psychiatric ware: of any hospital, and 

it's like you're on wheels 
Perhaps it started with their first real Just as with anything that is successful, exposure in the Original Whole Earth Earth Shoes have spawned a number of ('atalogul' or maybe with the fantastic word imitators. Just because a shoe looks like an of mouth advertisement by wearers, but Earth Shoe does not mean that it works like Earth Shoes are now practically one. Although not much can be said about everywhere, including Notre Dame. the imitators shoes, their names are quite 
This reporter started wearing Earth ingenious such as the Exersole, the Natural Shoes over a year and a half ago and has and Supernatural Shoe. They probably been noticing other people's feet, <perhaps spent more time thinking up their names it sounds strange) to see if anyone else than on being innovative in their design. had discovered how great Earth Shoes are. The only thing that these shoes have going Last year in the beginning when few wore for them is that they roughly resemble the shoes around Notre Dame, comments Earth Shoes outwardly, in order to exploit true however that Earth Shoes are not for like "What kind of shoe do you have on?" or the uninformed buyer. These shoes are not everyone. The manufacturer does not "How come your soles are so weird?" were contoured to the sole, in some the heels are recommend them for people with flat feet or common place. When told that they were not even recessed. There is one shoe that is Achilles tendon problems. Earth Shoes, few people had ever heard of comparable to the Earth Shoe called Roots, Once a person starts to wear Earth Shoes, them. As a result of all the publicity and that are advertised as "not an imitation, but it is difficult to wear other shoes and feel as imitations that have flooded the market an improvement." comfortable. Occasional sore backs seem to people now say "Are those Earth Shoes-­This shoe that everybody is trying to disappear; it might be psychological, but if how do you like them?" imitate was invented by Anne Kalso in it does the trick, who cares? The stores that 



Denmark in 1937 after many years of sell Earth Shoes have received thousands of research. She believed that by lowering the letters from wearPrs extolling their virtues, heel one could achieve the same skeletal for instance: stability as attained in the lotus position in "You might like to know that I am a Yoga. Subsequently it was confirmed that return customer. I've been wearing the when a man walks in a natuarl terrain that shoe for a couple of months now and I can't the weight of his body is sunk low into his bear to give them up for the summer. heels. With the help of orthopedic doctors They're really great. They have improved she perfected her design ten years after her my posture, made my back stronger, and original idea. besides all of the physical benefits, I like 
In Denmark anf other countries the shoe them because they're so weird." is recommended for various body ailments. Earth Shoes are often quite hard to buy. The unique Minus-heel construction with its Usually when a store gets a shipment in, heel lower than the toes helps strengthen most popular styles and sizes are sold out neglected leg muscles and takes pressure immediately. Prospective buyers often off the back and metatarsal area of the foot have to stand in line for hours. It is a good as well as to improve posture. idea if the shoes are not available to ask the 
On the other hand in this country some clerk when the next shipment is expected so podiatrists and orthopedic surgeons have you will know when to inquire next. Some been encouraging their patients to avoid stores will not take advance orders. Earth Shoes because they claim that the There are a number of drawbacks about 
shoes throw the feet into a slant back Earth Shoes. First, the price is somewhat 1 position forcing leg muscles and foot bones prohibitive. The least expensive pair costs to adjust to the shift. Others have countered approximately $36, but the shoes are so well that if this is true, then how do high heels constructed, they last for well over a year of affect the spinal column. One feature of use and abuse. Few other shoes can make a Earth Shoes that authorities recognize, is similar claim. Secondly, stores which stock ,. . that the fanned out toe is good for the Earth Shoes are located primarily in large ~' metatarsal area of the foot. It is definitely cities and major college towns. The closest 
see what pictures haunt your memory. Make a sick call to the shabby, crowded apartment in New York City where a forty­two year old man, with five children still in school, is dying of cancer; then try to forget what his eyes look like when you anoint his hands with the oils of the sacrament of the sick. Spend a half day visiting your mother in a nursing home for the aged, and try that evening, at dinner, not remembering how pitiable old folks look when they are h !lpless. 
The radio, every hour on the half hour, is filled with appeals for help to the victims of muscular dystrophy, sickle cell anemia, heart defects, and all the other diseases that cripple, retard, impair, and kill; for the alcoholics, and the mentally or emotionally disturbed as well. 
Always and everywhere, there are scenes and voices that try to touch our minds and hearts with appeals; sometimes there are people trying to touch our consciences with guilt. Well meaningly, they hope, through appealing to our guilt, to enlist our support. 
In the end, I don't think guilt is going to make the difference. I think it is only love that can make the difference. Lay a guilt trip on me, and I will try to resist you. I will become angry and I will argue. But teach me of my brothers and sisters. Tell me of an old lady in Calcutta who shuffles as she walks as my own mother shuffles. Tell me of the world's children whom I could teach to read and write, to dance and pray. Tell me of my family who are perishing in the long, dark night of the world, and I will try to care for them; not out of guilt--though I may be as guilty as hell, I don't want to be made responsible for the suffereing. Blame it on God; it is He Who permits sufferiqg-­but out of love. If I bind up their wounds with the balms that begin with love, then I am working with Christ, not as He is a judge to my sins of neglect, but as He is the Saviour who can help me to share crosses. 
by dennis casey ­

outlets to Notre Dame are Chicago, Ann Arbor and Bloomington. However, the manufacturer accepts mail orders ac­companied by a tracing of the foot. Finally, Earth Shoes take some getting used to. Moderate wearing of the shoe is advised in the beginning because new muscles are being used and soreness in the thighs and calves may result. Some people cannot wear the shoes all the time in the beginning 
because of soreness above the heel where the leather cuts into the skin; others have no problems whatsoever. 
If you are willing to overlook these minor hindrances, get a pair of Earth Shoes and experience a new walking sensation. As one person put it "It's like you're on wheels." 

the observer Friday, January 31, 1975 
THE ROMA
Hesburgh vetoes sex rule 
PIZZA * LIQUOR * ITALIAN FOOD 
(continued from page 1) 
As an example of a brief and simple rule meeting these criteria Hesburgh suggested for the SLC's consideration of the statement "serious sexual misconduct incurs serious penalty." He suggested that administrative decisions would work out the exact ap­plication of this rule on a case by case approach. 
When asked what he considered "serious sexual misconduct" Hesburgh answered that "having a member of the opposite sex in one's room all night" and other more serious activities would be included. 
SLC Reaction 
1 
Student Body President Pat McLaughlin said he had expected the veto. "I talked to Fr. Hesburgh last weekend and he informed me of the substance of the message, though I had thought a veto was possible before that," McLaughlin said. 
McLaughlin doubted that the SLC could agree on a new version which would satisfy Hesburgh. "I voted against the last proposal because it was too strict so I certainly could not vote for anything stricter if that is what he wants," he said. 
Disagreeing that there is a University standard on sexuality, at least in the sense of a com­munity consensus on the matter McLaughlin pointed to the dif­fering viewpoints in the SLC itself. "Neither is there a uniform standard of enforcement," McLaughlin argueta. ''Ther~.: IS a different rule enforced differently by different rectors in each dif­ferent hall." 
Hesburgh pointed to the Dean of Students as the over all judge who preserved uniformity in en­forcement and said that "rectors shou1<1 certainly know what kind of cases should be refered to him." 
McLaughlin rejected the idea of punitive measures as a last resot saying "I have never believed that private morality can be Iegisla ted." 
Student representative Dennis Sullivan said that he also had expected a veto. "But I wish he had told us about it sooner so we would have more time before the end of the semester to reconsider it if that is what we have to do." Sullivan did not think that agreement between Hesburgh and the SLC on a new rule was likely, saying that the matter was a question of individuals' values. He attacked Hesburgh 's "Serious sexual misconduct" suggestion as "much too vague-it puts the students right back to square one, not knowing where they stand." 
Brian Hegarty, also a student representative said he was disappointed that Hesburgh had rejected a compromise the Council had spent so much time working on. "It seems the only thing Hesburgh will accept is a rule imposing a blanket penalty for anything that even implies a violation." He suggested that Hesburgh 's proposal would be unenforceable except for flagrant cases any way unless "the ad­ministration resorts to bed­checks." ' 
Dean John Macheca explained that the Council risked a veto when it sent the proposal to Hesburgh. "He asked for something specific and limiting in his first veto and that wasn't quite what we sent him," Macheca said. 
Night Editor: Bill Brink Asst. Night Editor: Val Zurblls Layout: good question Copy Readers: Ann McCarry, Bob Radziewicz Day Editors: Maureen Flynn, Mary Egan Features: Jack Llzza, Robert Griffin, C.S.C., J. Robert Baker Sports: Greg Corgan Typists: D. Roos, A. Peeler, J. Landis, M. Tobin, Hlward, R. 
Huber 
Compugraphic Operator: John Kuhn Picture Screener: AI 
~ight Controller: Dave Rust 
Macheca said it was possible that he would issue a directive clarifying the present rule although he was not sure that it is necessary at this time. 
Dr. Robert Ackerman, director of staff development and vice­chairman of the Council noted that if the matter is taken up again-"I hope it won't be"-the proper procedure would be to send it to the rules committee to find a new compromise. 
Ackerman said he was "disappointed that our work was rejected," however he stressed that he had great respect for Hesburgh's decision. "He took a stand on principle and made a decision as is his duty," Ackerman said. 
Br. Just Paczesny, vice­president of Student Affairs would say only that he was "happy the President chose to concur with my original vote against the proposal." 
Fr. Terry Lally, associate vice 
president for student affairs, 
stressed Hesburgh 's stand on 
principle. "The SLC will have to 
realize the President's deter­
mination on this and it is now up to 
them to work out a new com­
promise if they choose to," Lally 
said. 
He agreed with Hesburgh on the need for some sort of punitive measures as a last resort. "To treat the matter only pastorally would be to effectively coun­tenance it publicly," he said. 
Mrs. Maureen Gleason, faculty representative, suggested there would be little :iifference if the proposal had been accepted. "It would be more a matter of what principle is set down in writing than the effect it would have on the way things are actually done," Gleason said. She suggested that the SLC drop the matter until next year when a new group might bring a new perspective to the problem. 
McLaughlin argued that the veto only supported his argument that the SLC was ineffective, par­ticualrly if the President can in­stitute his won rules without SLC action. He did not think that the veto itself would change too many minds "because it has been ex· pected for a long time," McLaughlin said. 
Ackerman commented on the effect of the veto on this debate. "It is possible that some people would feel their job is more useless because of the veto of something we worked on for most of the semester," he said. 


Your Host Frank AnQstasio 
'A PIZZA YOUCANNOT REFUSE' LIVE BANDS ON WEEKENDS Call 234-3258, For Delivery 219 N. Mich. Ave. Downtown At North End Of River Bend Plaza 




Cavalier Camera 
Scottsdale Mall 

next to 
Bishop's Buffet 


9 p m Evenings

0 pen Till 
5 p m Sunday Complete line of Camera and Darkroom Supplies 


You can buy a new car or a very shiny toaster or a washing machine that salutes when you turn it on, but the thing you're going to get the most enjoyment out of is a stereo system from us. 

Long after the dust has ~ettled on other things you buy, a good stereo system will go on giving you a tremendous amount of pleasure. Once music comes alive in your living room, you'll want it to stay forever. 
To make it come alive, we're of­fering a stereo system with ab­solutely convincing sound at an absolutely convincing price. The system is centered around the Smaller Advent Loudspeakers, really amazing two-way systems that offer the full ten-octave range of music at low cost and small enough size to fit any living room. A few minutes listening will tell you why Advents are best-sellers with an unbeatable word-of-mouth reputation that just keeps on growing. 
To power the Smaller Advents, we've picked the Sherwood S-7110 receiver, which not only has the right amount of power to do the job really well, but also has the qualities needed for superb FM <and AM> reception. 
For playing records, we're of­fering the PE 3012 automatic turntable with Pickering cartridge and diamond stylus, a combination that will treat your records gently and expertly . 
We offer you the complete system for $449.95. Come in and enjoy. 






Audio S~ecialists 
415 North Michigan 234-5001 
7 

leers need DU sweep to move up 
by Bob Kissel 
In terms of their schedule, the Notre Dame hockey team is in kind of a "heads I win, tails you loose" situation. The two teams above and below Notre Dame's seventh place spot, Michigan (6th) and Minnesota-Duluth <sthl square off in Duluth. 
There's one slight complication, the Irish must defeat Denver in mile-high country -something Notre Dame has never done in three years of WCHA competition. 
"Though we've never won a game in Denver, we've always played excellent hockey, "noted Lefty Smith. "They are only 4 points behind us, and if we give them any room for an opening into the door, things will become much tighter. We had better sweep, we need it badly." 
Last weekend the Irish broke even with a young, determined North Dakota squad, losing 2-1 Friday night and coming back Saturday night with a 5-2 victory, on the strength of three power play goals. 
"I was disappointed in getting a weekend split," commented Smith. "I mean here's a team that had only won three games in twenty coming in here, but they skated hard, hustled a lot, and got excellent goal tending from Pete Waselovich." 
North Dakota is past history and the challenge of the Denver Pioneers (6-15-1 in the WCHAl looms ever larger, despite the Pioneers' two lashings from the Huskies of Michigan Tech, 11-5 and 7-0 last weekend. 
Murray Armstrong, coach of the Pioneers, never fails to recruit a eouple All-Americans per year. But his problem has been keeping these top-notch players at Denver. Armstrong lost seven lettermen through graduation, including one of the best wings ever to come out of Minnesota, Bobby Krieger. 
The losses which destroy a team's chances are from early pro signings. Armstrong unexpectedly lost top blueliner Bruce Affleck to the St. Louis Blues. He also felt no need to recruit a young goalie last spring, since Pete LoPresti was in goal all 38 games and had two years of eligibility remaining. 
Murray should have known better. During the middle of the summer LoPresti signed with the Minnesota North Stars, leaving the Pioneers with only inexperience at the varsity goal tending position. Freshmen Bob Lieg from New Jersey and Ernie Glanville out of British Columbia have been splitting the net duties for Arm­strong. 
Denver's only real strength lies in their defensive pairs. Senior co­captains Dave Tomassoni, Bob Young, Mitch Brandt, and John Pearson are all four year regulars. The brunt of the of­fensive attack is carried by wingers Chad Campbell, center Mark Flacone, each with 10 goals, and winger Lindsay Thomson with 14. 
"Denver is a tough squad to prepare for," noted former blueliner Smith. "Because they are a weaker team with youth and opportunism going for them, they take chances out on the ice, throwing long passes which can catch you with your pants down." 
"One of the areas we've been weak is the so-called garbage goals," added Smith. "We have not been getting those second and third attempts off the initial shot. Those rebound goals are really vital from here on in and into the playoffs." 
tiomg on offense for the Irish are the lines of Brian Walsh-Alex Pirus-Clark Hamilton, Pat Conroy­Mark Olive -Terry Fairholm, Geoff Collier-Kevin Nugent-Allen and scholastic difficulties, Lefty will use the pairs of Dan Byers­Jack Brownschidle, Les Larson­Don Jacckson, and Dick Howe­Dave Bossy. John Peterson will open the Denver series in goal, while Lenny Moher will hopefully complete the sweep Saturday night. 



These two road games begin at 8:00pm <MSTl with WNDU's Pete Weber carrying all the action Jive from Colorado beginning at 9:45 South Bend time. 
Traclanen at UM 
The Notre Dame track team will be at Michigan tomorrow to face the Wolverines and the Bowling Green Falcons in an indoor meet. 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Wanted: Southern Belles, Nor­thern Stars, Eastern Stylists, and Wild Western Girls who would like to party Friday night and who wish to be wined and dined by a couple of football recruits. Please call 
1766. 

Need rideto or from NYC or Long Island sometime between Feb. 7­
21. Call Ted, 289-1775. 

Student typist wanted to bibliographies. 233-1329 or 7579, Patty. 
Married couple or· mate graduate students to act as houseparents for teenage boys in Mishawaka childrens institution. Good salary and fringe benefits. 259-5666 Monday through Friday, 9$5. 
FOR SALE 

Pair Dynaco 825 speakers. 1'12 yrs old, $120. 233-3495. 
4 pc drum set. Must sell quick. Call Joe, 8678. 
1965 Ford custom, four-door, automatic, good running condition, with good tires and 2 snow tires. Very little rust. $400 cash. 288-2667. 
1974 Porsche, 1.8 liter. 15000 miles, excellent condition. For further info, call 288-7068 after 5. 
N ikon equipment: N ikon F photomic body; 35 mm, 50 mm, 135 mm Nikon lenses; 200 mm vivitar lens; and 300 mm Soligor lens. Call 8003 before Friday if interested in part or all. 
The ultimate gift for the girl who has everything. Bill Borders 
1 pr. Head Killys with Saloman bindings. Raichle boots. Scott poles. Call Dan at 234-5200. 
NOTICES 

North Quad Party: Sat. night, Feb 1, 9-2:00 at the North Dining Halt. Music by Eden Rock. North Quad, free. All others, $1. 
Men-Women!! Jobs on Ships! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $3.00 for information. SEAFAX, Dept. G-13, P.O. Box 2049, Port Angeles, Wash. 98362. 
Car problems? Come to Hoffman Bros. Eddy at Madison. Wholesale prices to N D-SMC students, faculty, staff do-it-yourselfers. 
Repair service also available. Since 1929. 234-0191. 
Responsible students desire to rent motorhome for 10 days !March 21­301 for trip to Florida. Will pay well. Call Trace, 234-1889. 
Money?? Morissey Loan will lend up to $150 for 30 days, 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune, daily, 11:15 to 12:15. 
"Kathy Reilly" is coming. 
Join our North East Day Care parent cooperative. $15 a month plus 4 hours parent participation per week. 9-5, 233-2233. 
Sewing, mending, coat shortening, etc. Experienced, reasonable. 255­5236 after 6 pm. 
Trade a few books for 10 percent cash or 40 percent credit at Pan­dora's Books. 2:30-3:30 everyday except Sunday. 602 N. St. Louis Blvd at South Bend Ave. 
A weekend for those who have interest in A Life of Service­Prayer, Feb. 7-8-9, Old College. Sign up -Campus Ministry Office, 103 Library. 
Roundtrip flight to Los Angeles over Eas~er break. Sponsored by California Club. Price around $150. Call Chip Clitheroe, 283-7733 or Larry at 289-1757. 
Casting for new smash musical "Kathy Reilly." Call Ron, 232-7766. 
SIGN-UPS FOR SPRING BREAK TRIP TO MONTEGO BAY, CALL 272-9895 (EVES) OR STOP BY STUDENT UNION TIX OFFICE. SPONSORED BY ST. JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY. 
Ski trip to Crystal Mt., Mich., Feb 8 & 9. $36 includes lifts, lodging, food, and entertainment. Meeting for all interested, Mon., Feb. 3, at 7:00, Rm 1-C. LaFortune. More info , 6811 or 6856. 
FOR RENT Attention Off Campus Renters: 3 
B R  house,  new  carpet,  
redecoration.  Can  take  3  or  4.  
Available  for  balance  of  this  
semester  and  summer.  287-7818.  

Furnished apartment, 807 ND Ave. $80 mo., utilities included. 287-8282 after 9. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: Navy Pea coat at Campus View par1y, Sa1. Call 8947. 
PERSONALS 

Today is Jill Pascuzzo's Birthday. Wish her a happy one. 
Dear Pussface, Have a Happy B-day or I'll K.Y.A.I. 
ENAJ 

Dear Jules: 
Please come home, we all still love you. And you can even cook dinner. 
To my friend M.S. "Oh fly to me little fairy and together we will frivolously flit 
through  the  forest  and  flowers  
fleeing  the  misfortunes  of  our  
friend's flu."  

What does Annie Barrows say today? 
Roomy: May you have a great B-day and see all 19. Your Roomy 
Cathy & Rose, 
Your responses are overwhelming us. 
G., 0., P. 
It's Debbie's birthday and she would appreciate a call to wish her a happy one. So why don't you dial 8145 and get your ya-ya's out. 
KP in BP desperately needs bottle of red rinse (or burnt orange) . Roots showing. Desperate. Call 1323. 
Birthday girl, Play it again, Barb. 
8 
Barbie doll, Waking up to your smiling face at breakfast is so delightful! Happy Birthday Barbie! 
208 Howard 

Help! Save a sweet young thing from the nunnery! Call1274 to help Sue celebrate her B-day. 
Frank Martin: all our thanks, all our love! Come again. 2nd floor BP 
Chariie, we wish the Old Man of 221 a Happy 20th . Howard beware of the gallon of gin that is rumored he wants to deposit. Put your money on Juanita and Black Jack -it's better for the stomach. 
Tim, Terry, Mike, Jerry, Joe, Flatrocks 
.. 


8 the observer Friday, Januarv 31, 1975 



Irish open home stand with Xavier 
by Greg Corgan Sports Editor 

If Digger Phelps' Fighting Irish basketball team is looking forward to a relatively easy time of it in their remaining ten games, they'd better look again. , 
While Indiana, UCLA, Maryland, Kentucky and Marquette shouldn t show up again for a while, every one of ND's next ten opponents has a .500 record or better. And that includes Michigan State, the always-tough South Carolina, a surprising LaSalle five and St. John's in New York's Madison Square Garden. 
One of the "softer touches" should be Xavier's Musketeers, whom the Irish entertain tomorrow starting at 2:00 p.m. Although Coach Tay Baker's squad arrives with an 8-7 record, the Musketeers have lost two of their last three games including a 73-55 loss to Marquette Wednesday night. 
Xavier does, however, boast wins over Detroit, a preseason top twenty favorite which has since folded, Niagra, and, at the time a Larry Fogle­led Canisus team. In that game, however, both Fogle and Xavier's big cPnter 6'8" Jerry Foley were ejected midway through the first half when a fistfight broke out under the Mu~keteer. basket. ~ c~uple o~ games later, Fogle, •vho was in the top ftfteen m the nat10n m scormg was suspended from the team. 
Besides Foley, Baker starts senior Pete Accetta 02.3 p.p.g.) and junior Mike Plunkett <14.3 p.p.g.) at the forward slots with senior Jim Rippe <13.6) and sophomore Stan McCoy at the guard positions. In reserve, Baker. who is in his second year at Xavier, has freshman Joe. Sunderman 
DWIGHT CLAY pulls up for a jump shot against Marquette but finds Earl Tatum and Butch Lee in
and senior Gary Deidrick on the front line and Ron Laker tn the back­
the way. Dwight hopes for better luck tomorrow when the Irish entertain Xavier.
court. 

The Irish come into tomorrow's contest with a 10-6 record after a tough last-second 73-71 win on the road against Western Michigan 
Basketball tradition Paterno S concern 
Tuesday night. Notre Dame still sports the 
by Bill Brink staff recruited him. "They came game now. but I took mostly long matter of having confidence in nation's leading scorer. Adrian and talked to me a lot, but they also jump shots last year and didn't yourself and your teammates." 
I>antley. who is averaging 32.1 

"The myth of Notre Dame is left me alone a lot. There's a lot of work on my penetration enough. "After last year we knew UCLA points per game. With his 27 points mostly a football myth, but I bull that goes on in recruiting, and College ball is so much more ad­was human too," Paterno con­
against WMU, Dantley became the didn't want to hear anything about they told me the truth." vanced than high school ball, and tinued. "They're not a comeback 19th player to score 1,000 points at 

football because I was coming here The truth worked, because I'm just learning now." team and our crowd really psyched Notre Dame. He now has 1,019 to play basketball." Phelps got Bill Paterno, and he Billy does not feel slighted at all them out. f.Iso, the coaches are 60 
points in his career. Dantley is the Bill Paterno is here, and playing instilled in him the same optimism by playing in the shadow of Irish percent of the team. They did a first player in Notre Dame history basketball. and though he probably about ND's basketball program star Adrian Dantley. He praises greatjob in preparing us for UCLA. 

to reach the mark as a sophomore can't help but hear plenty about that he and his staff had. Dantley's great ability and feels They devised the game plan, we and the seventh <Austin Carr, Tom Notre Dame football, he is one of "I saw Notre Dame had a chance that their styles of play com­just had to put it into effect." 

Hawkins, Bob Arnzen, Bob major reasons why people are to have a great basketball team, plement each other well. Comparing this year's upset of the Whitmore. Gary Brokaw and John hearing more and more about especially with Digger. I thought "Adrian's a much better one-on­Bruins to last year's, Bill adds; "I Shumate were the others> to score Notre Dame basketball. The 6-5, he could turn the team around," one player than I am. I'm used to guess this year was more 1.000 points in his first two years as 205 lb. Sophomore is a starting says Bill. "I came to try to be a running around and getting open," satisfying than last year for me a varsity player. Nationally, forward for the '74-'75 Irish. a part of the Notre Dame basketball says Bill. "He's a scorer and if I because I started." 

Dantley is only the third player to member of the exciting young tradition." have the ball I'll look for him The Irish's goal all season has achieve the 1,000 point mark as a 

legion of stars that coach Digger So far this season Paterno is before I shoot. But my scoringwill been to make the NCAA tour­sophomore along with Pete Phelps is building his team around. playing a pretty big part in the develop and we'll start to com­nament, and that goal hasn't 
Maravich and Fly Williams of 

Though he starred in football and Irish basketball program. He is plement each other more and more changed according to Bill. TheyAustin Peay. baseball as well as basketball second in the scoring and now." feel they cannot lose more than Digger looks for more than just while attending Christian Brothers rebounding categories for the Along with his individual t>ight games, hopefully not even 
Dantley to cause trouble for the 

Academy in New Jersey, there was Irish, averaging 14.3 points a game development, Paterno feels there that many. Paterno credits coach Musketeers tomorrow. however. never any doubt in Paterno's mind while pulling down over 6 rebounds has been great team development Phelps with having helped
"We have talent on this team," that it was basketball that he per game. He has also become an this season. He contends that they maintain that goal, even throughsaid Phelps. "We're playing three 

wanted to pursue in college. And iron man in the ND lineup, ac­are beginning to overcome the the hard times. freshmen. five sophomores and he has very decided reasons why cumulating agreat amount of inexperience and loss of poise that "He has to get mad at us, but he 
two seniors as our starters and top he chose Notre Dame as the place playing time. While the guards hurt them the first half of the never gave us the impression that 

reserves and with that much youth to do it. and centers have been rotating so season. and are playing with more we couldn't make the NCAA's," I t•xpected it to take us awhile to "You get what you want to get far this season, Paterno and fellow confidence and cohesion. says Billy. "It was never the jell. I think maybe some of the out of an education, no matter forward Adrian Dantley have "We're more together now, feeling that 'well, we can alwayskids began to lose faith when we where you go," says Bill, though he remained solid regulars in the everyone's getting their shots," he go to the NIT', we are definitely
lost on that eight-game road trip, does point out Notre Dame's high lineup. explains. "There's one star, aiming at the NCAA's." 
t•ven though we've been playing 

academic standing. "I wanted to "I'd come in last year off the Adrian. but we!re more of a team Paterno feels that the extremely the best teams around. We've had come here because a lot of people bench and my job was to hit long now." competitive quality of the Irish 
some outstanding contributions 

from my town <Spring Lake, New jump shots," Bill explains. It is hard to argue with him after schedule will help them in the lately by nearly every player and I .Jersey> are from Notre Dame, and "That's what I did in high school the Irish's stunning upset of UCLA tourname11t. should they be in­
~ hope we're on our way." because as far as exposure goes, because we had a big center. So I last Saturday. "We knew we could vited. 
I With seven games in the next 16 you can't beat it. But I guess the thought I fit in perfectly." beat them." Bill says. "We won "I definitely think we have an days, the Irish will have to be. main reason was the schedule they "This year I feel myself the first half out there, and wat­advantage going into the NCAA's," 
t Notre Dame will face Michigan have here. It's fantastic. And you developing", says Paterno. I ching the films of that you can he says. "Take a team like Austin 
I 
SouthState on Feb. 5, Carolina have to play the best to be the should be averaging 20 points a really see your mistakes. It's a Pt>ay last year. They did great. but
Ft>b. 8, Air Force FEb. 10, St. 

best." who did they play? They went to.John's Feb. 13, LaSalle Feb. 15, Paterno also respects the the tournament and we killedand St. Joseph's (·Ind.·) on Feb. 22. manner in which Phelps and his them. Now we're going to face 
some big teams and we won't even blink an eye. We're used to it."
Fencers face Tri-State 

Looking ahead, Paterno plans to get his degree from Notre Dame
by Tom Kruczek l>'ellows <Oakland, N.J.) racked 

and then consider possibly playing up a 15-5 record. Rounding out the
The Notre Dame fencers open pro ball. But he does not plan to 
top four is Dave Connor <Cin·

the 1975 home season Saturday make that his sole future.
cinnati, Ohio> and John Strass

with a quadrangular match "I'm not going to be a pro for
<Glenview, Ill.) who finished with

against Tri-State College, Min­more than two or three years," he
7-3 and 11-5 totals, respectively.

nt>sota and Wisconsin-Parkside at contends. "It's too grueling, too
In foil, DeCicco points out that

th<• ACC. Match time is 1 p.m. much traveling, and how could you 
the success of the team may be

The Irish are coming off a start a family? I'd like to play for 
attributed to "the strengths of the 

successful Eastern tour which saw maybe two or three years and 
top four positions." Leading the

Mike D<•Cicco's squad win seven make enough contacts and in­
way are two freshman, Pat Gerard

matches and lose only two in a total vestments to do all right for 
t Norridge, Ill.) and Mike McCahey 

of nine days on the road trip. mvself."
<Shaker Hts., Ohio>. Gerard

LPading the way for the Irish i>resently though, he is con­
finished with a 15-4 mark while

Saturday will be Sam DiFiglio cerned about doing all right for the 
McCahey had 13 wins in 17 bouts.

<Skokie, Ill.l in sabre who com­team as they head down the stretch 
Behind them are Terry McConville 

piled a 17-4 bout record record thus towards a hoped-for tournament
<Niles Ill.> with a 12-5 record and

far in the season. Behind DiFiglio bid.
team captain Tom Coye with 8

will be John Vozella tReading, "We'll try to take the rest of the
wins and 5 losses. 

Mass.), Mike Progar (Sheboygan, game one by one," says Bill. "It's Wis.> and Mike Sazdanoff got to be that way. We're just <Mansfield, Ohio>. going to get better from now on,
Swimmers home 

In epee, which DeCicco calls we're not even close to peaking "our top weapon," there is trength The Notre Dame swimming yet. We're going to have some bad at the first four positions. Tim team will be in action this Satur­games but we're not going to lose Glass <Niles, Ill.> finished the day at the Rockne Memorial Pool our heads or our poise. We've got 
Eastern swing with the top win at 2:00 p.m. against Marshall it in the palm of our hand ... " percentage on the team, an .842 University. The Irish swimmers With a little help from Bill mark with 16 wins in 19 outings, are currently undefeated. Ad­Paterno, the Irish may be able to while last year's All-America is Ed mission is free. grasp it.







