

.:·~
·\· 
university of notre dome · st. mary's college Vol. X No. 43 Friday, October 31, 1975 


THE GHOST OF WASHINGTON HALL? Some say that the old building is haunted by the ghost of the Gipper. On Halloween night this ghost is awakened from his resting place on page 4. (Photo by 
-~_hris Smithl 
Lecturer-author stresses friendship aspect of love 
by Pat Cole Starr Reporter 
Discussing the different types of love, lecturer and author Erik Ritter von Kuehnelt-Leddihn spoke to a crowd of approximately 50 students last night in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Von Kuehnelt-Leddihn made the distinction between sex and eros. "Sex and eros," he said, "are two different things. Sex is not a part of love. Sex is nature's trick for the ('ause of reproduction. It can express love, hatred, contempt and l'ven indifference." 
"Eros is not gratification, but it is for union. Although these two elements are different, they live door to door." 
The lecturer further explained the nature of eros. "Paschal emphasized that reason should enter eros," he continued. "Heason should enter it and in­factuate it." 
He maintained that eros should not be the basis of marriage. "If marriage is based on eros, then the result is usually fatal," he com­mented. "Union is the essence of eros. Eros has been a fallacious phenomena." 
Von Kuehnelt-Leddihn studied civil economics at the University of Vienna and the University of Budapest and came to the United States in 1937. He became chairman of the department of history at St. Peter's College in New Jersey and is the author of some novels, The Gates of Hell and Moscow. He has had his essays concerning political theory printed in many American publications, among them Commonweal, America and Thought. 
The author gave explanations on why people fall in love. "The psychologist Carl Jung said we have images of persons we like that attract us," he stated. "Jung says this is an inherent trait in man." 
'• However, I do not believe this is so," Von Kuehnelt-Leddihn added. "I believe this trait comes from our childhood. Toys have an in­fluence on the images we make of people." 
He commented on the biblical tradition of man's creation of human images, an'd said that God at first tried to make Adam a companion with the animals. "But Adam didn't find his fulfillment in animals," he said. "Once Adam saw Eve he said, 'you are part of my flesh' and this is when he was satisfied." 
Due to the Women's Movement, emphasized Kuehnelt, there has been a desire to see the real distinctions between man and woman. "Thus we find additional differences," he said. "Women are simpler than men in their physical make-up. The male is a rather complex creature; in fact, an unnatural creature." 
Women are "more life-centered than men and they act better on their instincts.'' The male, he said, is more death-centered. "The male is less of a realist than a woman." 
Friendship Between Man and Woman 
The lecturer stated that friend­ships between man and woman are variable. "Friendships in Europe play a great role between men and women," he revealed. "Yet when I came to America in 1937, they said that society was very matriarchal. Women do have a wide ghetto in this country. They rule and are supreme.'' 
"On the other hand, women in the British feel alien. What should be stressed is affection for the sexes," he said. 
Affection is not the basis for 
marriage around the globe ac­
cording to ·him. "In some 
societies, the marria~es are 
arranged by the parents." 
"Sex," he continued, "is a questionable and elusive element. If one gets married, the question is: are we sexually matched? Instead it should be: are we friends for a lifetime? The frienriship element is important. When a friendship breaks up in this society, it is usually shocking to people." 
Difference in Charity 
Von Kuehnelt-Leddihn said that 
love is also "an act of charity." 
"Usuallv there is a friendship at 
first sight," he pointed out. 
"Physical characteristics are not 
important in charity." . 
He maintained that unlike 
prostitution, in charity, there is a 
will even if the inclination is not 
there. "Charity," the speaker 
stated, "is pure decision. It has 
personal direction." 
In conclusion, Von Kuehnelt­
Leddihn stated, "These are the 
most important forms of love. 
They must be woven into the 
marriage pattern to create a 
meaningful relationship .." 
For second semester 
ND food co-op organized 
by Mark Murphy Staff Reporter 
Student Government has completed 
reorganization of the Notre Dame food co-<>p and 
will conduct a membership drive beginning Nov. 3. 
Student Body Vice-President Tom Fitzgerald, director of the co-<>p, has sent out 5500 letters to members of the Notre Dame community explaining the program. 
Fitzgerald said the co-<>p will not be in operation until next semester. 
"There's just no way we can start before then. We can complete the planning this semester but the co-<>p won't be physically operational until January," he said. 
The price for a co-<>p membership has been changed from $5 per person to $25 per household. 
"There were too many loopholes in last year's price plan," Fitzgerald noted. He said a student would purchase one membership for an entire household which deprived the co-<>p of needed capital for operation. 
Fitzgerald said the cost of membership was suggested by the Cooperative League of the United States which is helping the Notre Dame program get started. 
"One of the worst things for a new co-<>p is Jack of money because co-<>ps that do fail traditionally go under in the first two months of operation. We've got to play it safe," he said. 
Arlene Margowski, organizer of several Chicago co-<>ps and advisor for the Notre Dame program, will discuss the co-<>p's structure Monday night at 7 
p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Student Government will sign up members after the meeting and in the LaFortune main lounge on Nov. 4 and 5. 
"This meeting Monday night will explain the program in detail and also serve as a gauge for membership," Fitzgerald said. 
The food co-<>p was originally to be in operation this semester. Steve Shankel was named head of 

More women needed 
Faculty search conducted 
by Kathy Byrne Starr Reporter 

The Notre Dame Law School will conduct its annual faculty hiring search at the Association of American Law Schools in Chicago early in December. 
Francis Beytagh, chairman of Appointments and Promotions in the law school, stressed the need for more women faculty. 
"It's not a new program. We've always worked hard at hiring women in the law school," Beytagh said. 
The affirmative action policy at Notre Dame plays a definite role in the hiring policy. "Three years ago the department had a concious policy of trying to do whatever we could to hire women, and to put it bluntly non-white males," Beytagh stated. "But at the base-line we have to insure that they can do the job." 
The hiring search involves prospective faculty members submitting resumes to Beytagh. He will then contact the best qualified applicants and meet with them at the •December con­vention. 
The department has already received 300-400 resumes. Beytagh explained that his af­firmative action policy differs 
from the rest of the school in that the policy had been in effect for several years. 
Since over one-third of the law school is female he feels it is necessary to hire more women faculty as role models. He also stressed that Notre Dame is not unique in having problems with hiring women. 
"We have to keep working on it, of course, doing whatever we can to hire competent faculty," Beytagh said. 
He also cited several problems in hiring female faculty. "If they are married, then we must consider the program last spring and was to work on it through the summer. 
He informed Fitzgerald in July that he would not be returning to South Bend this semester. "We had to start from scratch in September," Fitzgerald said, "but now we have a much more feasible program." 
The co-<>p will be similar to a small grocery store and will use the direct charge method of operation. 
Food will be sold at wholesale prices and the co-op's operational expenses will come from .its members in the form of a small weekly serviCe charge. 
"We'll make nothing on what we sell, and by using the direct charge method we won't have to worry about sales volume," Fitzgerald explained. 
The co-<>p will consist mostly of off-campus students, faculty and the staff of the University. On-campus students will be advised not to join the co-<>p since they won't be buying large amounts of food. 
"The weekly service charge is proportionately small for a household buying a week's groceries, but high for an on-campus student who buys just a few dollars worth of food," Fitzgerald said. 
People who leave the co-<>p or graduate from school will have the opportunity to sell theirmem­berships and Student Government will act as a clearing house for the transactions. 
Fitzgerald said that if response to the program is poor then a buyers club could take its place. "That would consist of a few people taking orders from everyone, then buying the food at wholesale prices and distributing it to members," he explained. 
Before the end of the semester a board of direc­tors will be elected, a location found for the co-<>p and a survey taken to find out the needs of the co-op's members. 
Fitzgerald noted that only food would be sold by the co-<>p in the beginning. "You've got to walk before you run. I'm cautiously optimistic about the co-<>p and we're going to make sure everything is prepared. All we need now are the members," he concluded. 
their spouse, and South Bend is not exactly a hot spot for single professors." 
Beytagh mentioned that in the past hiring strictly on the basis of affirmative action has resulted in problems. "Obviously whatever we do is not going to be enough for some people, but we already have several female faculty in the Jaw school." 
Beytagh particuarly stressed the work of Ann Wernz, Jaw professor. "She is doing a fantastic job and represents the type of faculty member we are looking for," Beytagh said. 

,;. •l •• !.4 ~ ~· • • ~ •., • a < ~ .j.l. .~I. ~ 4,j, ~ 1: " 4 .,..•.• ;, 4 4'' ' ,. l. I> ., : 
Grow your own

-l l. .I "-#4., ·~''"" • ... o 
•J, C I

~o• H. * o . ~·l·d'"·.:.·ti·~. \•--~·" '· ' ' J,~<II, I ,< 
~~..........~~~::war-~~ .rllt ·__ ·-~~~ ._.­
avocado plant

lr. ' ,L.! ~ ; >· -' •• •' I '. , · • -. : ; • ' · ' .< ' '; ~" 44 
, ,"p~6Uf},.t;zechoslova!d-a. CAP·t_-. A ;Yti~~!a~ .DC9>charter · 
by Marti Hogan!*-jetliner. b'ting!n_g hotne. Czeyhoslovak vac~ijo~ets, crashed near· . 

Staff Reporter4 ~Pnigue airport toqay an~ olficiahfre~rted 52 ~1..1rvi~ora ~trto'ng the -+ " 120 persons aboard. More .than 60 were feared dead.· "1> • • •• ,. H .. 

The California Avocado Ad­' " BEtl(uT, LE:banon.('..tP) "---: An ~~eriean pil~t ·was ~idilapped f!om ~-~ visory Board's concept. "Inside• • his•apartn:lent fi,{ gl1nm~n who ·accused h1m of ·~yolve~en~)q-J.J 

every avocado there's a1free tree,"' ·t:ebanon's civil war, his ·w{fe· sai~ today. ·He_ was the thJrd ~ inspired Mademoiselle magazine·American abducted in eight days. . . . ,~ l". •"" : ; • to initate an avocado seed-growingJo lie is HermimCiydeHuddleston,47, of Ft. Wortll, T~x.,..~-p~ot f_or ~, contest on college campuses, in­·Lebanon's aii.:Cargo Trans Mediterranean Airlines fol' the l{lst ·3th 

. . -J • ... " lo • -• 

cluding St. Mary's tnis winter. years. --. ~· -' ,•J ' '-. l< • ' . ,. 
"We felt that was too exciting a concept to pass up,"Mademoiselle


~ ear;·.·c:ampus tp·da~l }~ 1 : 
said, "so in celebration of the . -. "'. . ..~, ; 
glories of the avocado, we putfriday, october 31, 1975 . 

together an 'Avocados Grow on 1.2 ~15 ·p.m. -travelogue series "isle r,oyale .in the dayttme'' by leo You' contest." 

dine, rm. 278; galvin aud. 
The contest will begin November ..' :3·0 p.m. -lecture "efficiency.: in the soviet .consumer goods ln­13 with the registering of the dustry" by roger skurskr, n.d., rm. 110, law school 

avocado seed at the St. Mary's :evensong· ·~vespers'' ·fog ch~pel . 
dining hall from 4:30pm to 6 pm. 
Each contestant will receive an · 5 p.m. ~spe~iilf ali ~a ints' day·litur:qy' sacred heaf'J e;t\ur~_h' entry form, an "Avocados Grow ~:i:Sq:J_m: . ·~ass ~nd :supp~r (.bolla sbed. . ' -' on You" button and a seed-growing

•10-1 a:m.· :smt'coffeehause J'kevin•kell9gg, W; steve paspek,'·Jt;, instruction booklet. The plants
. . . 
rriai:k ·nopkiJ1~' ,~ .. sna·ck shop· · · •· 
~ • .. l.. • • • 

must be named at the time of io·-1' q:m·. · cnazz coHee_house, basement, .t_aiortune 
reeistration. · s~f~rday; november-1·,: 1975 · 
·'There will be no limit to the number of avocado seeds plant­

10:50 a.m· --multi-media show ''notr.e dame 111 review" washington­
ed," Mademoiselle said, "but each entry must be registered to 

. . .J . ha'IJ . . . . . . . 
1:30 p.m. •;football''fn~viat notre dame"·' 
be eligible for a prize." .& p.m :' . -concert ·"jetliro ·ww· ace $6 seats available 
Each campus will have one .nan ~~ffeehou.se, closed. .. · . · . 
winner who will receive a ten­
. .I 

4 speed bicycle and may thens~nday, november 2, 1975 . . . . _ . . 
become eligible for "an all ex­2 p:~ _ -french play '~le treteau -de par:is ·~phedr:e', '·',a'laughlin pense paid five day rapid river -aud., sponsored by n.d. and s.m.c. modern ·language run, down the Salmon Riverdepts. $3 general, $2 students _ • _ 

through Idaho and Washington," 7 p.m. -meeting ;,hunger coalition" 'new members welcome, 
said Dianna Massoud, St. Mary's library aud. . -_ ·1 -· . • 
Mademoiselle campus marketing 
representa tive 
This "grand prize" will include round trip air fare to and from the distination along with ac­

Pageantry to mark game 
commodations one night before and one night after the river run. The first performance of a 
Decorating Company of Chicago.

patriotic hymn written especially 
The Observer is pubIished Monday

for the Notre Dame band, the 
through Friday and weekly during

Notre Dame's Athleteic director 
the summer session, except during

raising of a Betsy Ross flag, and 
Edward W. Krause, will condlude 
exams and vacation periods. The

the presentation of Football Hall of 
the halftime entertainment with 
Observer is published by the

Fame honors to student of 50a the presentataion of Hall of Fame 
students of the Univ. of Notre 

vears ago are all part of the 
o'ame and Sf Mary's College.

honores to John "Clipper" Smith, a 
Subscriptions may be purchased

pageantry planned for Sat~rday's 
guard on the 1925, 1926, and 1927 
for 10 dollars per semester { 18

football game <Nov. 1) with the teams. 
dollars per year) from The Ob

Naval Academy in the Notre Dame 
Smith won unanimous All­
server, Box Q, Notre Dame, In

stadium. 
diana, 46556. Second Class postage

American honors playing on the
The national colors will be 
paid. Notre Dame, IN 46556.

same squad as Christy Flanagan,
presented by Ed Byrne, student h<JifiJack.
body president, to a color guard 
representing the Na~y_. Arm~ and 
FOR YOUR

Air Force ROTC trammg umts on 
the campus before the game. The 
BACK PACKING

unit is under the direction of Terrence G. Heidkamp, a mid­shipman student from LaGrange, 
NEEDS 

Ill. At the same time. a reproduction 
233-8383

of the original Revolutionary War flag crafted by Betsy Ross wil_l be carried by a student dressed m a 

~L SIERRA SPORTS
buckskin outfit to a rough-hewn 
flagpole where it will be displayed 
.L2216 MIAMI
during the game and onthe campus during the remainder of the Bicentennail celebration. The flag · 
SOUTH BEND, IN.

is a fit of the WGN Flag and ._______________________.J 
HAVE ATAILGATE PARTY BEFORE THE BIG GAME 

For an outstanding Tailgate Party ­take along a Bucket or a Barrel of "finger lickin' good"® chicken, potatoes and gravy, salad, hot rolls and dessert. 
1Even if you are not 
"'-+--''-rt--1'­

going to the game, it's a great day to "Visit the Colonel ". 
u~~~
ti ...~_.•,.,......... ~\_ 

f ~ '"' 

CATERING FOR ALL OCCASIONS t-J. 




Ktatueklt fried Chieku® 
Western near Mayflower -52044 U.S. 31 N. near Brick Rd. 4207 s. Michigan -1640 Sout~ Bend Ave. 2612 LWW, Mishawaka 
FAST 

TV SERVICE 
AND SALES 
we_--TERI\! ~:...trTRONICS 1530 WESTERN AVE. Phone 282 -1955 
~*****************************l
!MAKE THIS : : CHRISTMAS A ii hTENNIS X~1AS~' : 
* GIVE THAT SOMEONE SPECIAL *:A "SPORTING"GIFT THAT WILL : !"SERVE LOVE" ALL YEAR 'ROUND: 
! SPENI'S i ! * PRO SHC'P ! * 
: 321 SOUTH NOTRE DAME : !.~OUTH RFNn 233-8712 : 
****************************************
********************* * * '****
* . :It­: NOW OPEN f * * 
~ WE CATER FOR : 
!* VICTORY PARTIES * ~ 
* *
* *
* * 
~ KEG BEER ~ 
* 
~ (IN STOCK) * 
:cATERING_ ~ 
:sPECIALLY -AWAYGAMES-~ 
*TO THE WE CATER FOR ~ 
* ND-SMC ,.._
:COMMUNITY BUS TRIPS : ~ PHONE: 259-0261 HOURS: : ~ FREE MON-SAT : ~ DELIVERY 9:30-MIDNIGHT: 
~(with $15.00 minimum purchase * 
J


··················••¥••··········••* 

:; DO IT NOW! 
-~­
:·~ Come See Our New Collections Of: 
*SHIRTS *BELTS 
* PFANSTIEHL NEEDLES 
*JEWELRY *PIPES 
*POSTERS 
AND THERE'S ALWAYS OUR 
EVER EXPANDING SELECTION OF 
RECORDS AND TAPES. STOP IN, 
WE'RE SURE YOU'll LIKE 
WHAT YOU FIND. 
919 B College Square (Across ·from Town & Country Shopping Center) 
c ·-WUC:4¥Wi44AA .1-wee c• • sec 


Established in 1917 
Art gallery marks growth 
by Phil Cackley Starr Heporter 
The Art Gallery in O'Shaugnessy is a unique and valuable part of the Notre Dame community both culturally and educationally. 
The University's art collection has roots stretching back to the 1840's. The present collection was first firmly established in 1917 when a purchase of 136 paintings boosted the total number of pieces in the collection to 178. 
By 1925, the collection was housed in the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery, four rooms in the University Library, and had grown to a size of 224 works. 
A major step towards making the Gallery what it is today came in 1952, when the plans for O'Shaugnessy Hall included an art 
gallery which was include a west gallery to beusedfor changing loan exhibits, and 4 east galleries for wither loan exhibits, or exhibits composed of works from the University collection. 
Today the Art Gallery receives 40,000 visitors per year, occupies t­wo floors in the south wing of O'Shaugnessy Hall , and has an extensive collection of ap­proximately 4,000 works ranging from 16th century B.C. Hittite to 20th century Abstract art. 
Currently on exhibit in the galleries are a Victor Higgins exhibit in the west gallery (report­ed in the Tuesday, October 28 I lhst•rvt•r ) ; an exhibit of works hv and in the collection of I<:verett McNear, a member of the Art Gallery Advisory Council and a consultant for the Art Institute of Chicago, in rooms I-III of the east galleries; and a number of pain­tings andsculpturesfrom the Notre Dame collection m the fourth room Of the east side, the Masterpiece Hoom. 


"Monstrous operation" However, these exhibits are only a small part of what Fr. Richard Conyers, curator of theGallerywho is presently on leave, terms the "monstrous operation" of the Art Gallery and its staff. This operation includes both the visible aspect of the gallery, the exhibits: obtaining, arranging, and designing them ; and also the less visible aspects, particularly such jobs as conservation of paintings, and the mountains of research involved in setting up exhibits and writing catalogues for them. All this is done to fulfill the pur­pose of the ArtGallery, which ac­cording to Conyers is "bringing that which is beautiful both in cont­emporary and historical art to the eyes of the students, the residents of the South Bend area and the faculty." conyers also said a major function of the gallery is to serve as a "educational tool within the University community" and that in this capacity the gallery exhibits the permanent collection to con­nect moments of art history with contemporary learning ex­periences. Much of what is done in the area of research is reflected in the exellence of the catalogues done for the exhibits shown in the gallery. These catalogues usually give some history of the artist or artists appearing in the show, a list of theworks in the exhibit, and other pertinent information on the works such as the date when it was produced, the size and the medium. Notre Dame has written many catalogues, with at least 30 in the last 10 years. The catalogues are frequently of major impact and are on sale at such museums as the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 
Acareer in law­WithOUt laW SChOOl. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education ·.and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the seven courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 950 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 80 cities. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assis­tant, we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
WEDNESDAY,NOVEMBER12 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
New York, according to Conyers
Conservation is a major concern of the staff, as the physical state of the pieces in the collection is im­
portant. Conyers said works are usually sent to Chicago for 
restoration because of age or for cleaning. He said Chicago has one 
of the best conservators in the nation. 
Extensive collection 
The collection spans a wide area of art styles and history. Included are exampIes 0 f Western, MI'ddle and Near East art, from the 14th century to the 20th century; pieces
of aboriginalsculpturefrom Africa and the East Indies; a good 
(continued on page 8) 
Friday, October 31, 1975 
the observer 
MA.LLrH·E._.A..·T.·R:E·: oowN~o~~_,· 288~ 7000 . ,.,_.,._ ··. 
So. Bed .1,.. , , , 
.. ' 
(formerly AvM) 



STARTS TONIGHT! 
DOORS OPEN 7:00 






INSTANT CREDIT couPON I1-----------------­

I DICK'S 1 

I FREE 1
J 
~~ I
1 ~~!. 1 
<5'' Jill{ ,:,:.~;~:~ "0IL CHANGE"
I E. CORBY o;~~~tor 1I ~~~RECKER & 
WITH TUN E-U P 

1 ; ROAD SERVICE 
MOTORTUNE-UP~---(BRING COUPO )
I BRAKE SERVICE -~~. N IN 
WHEEL -~ DIAL
I ALIGNMENT 234-0707
Dick Kruk . Owner 
MON.-SAT. 7am-llpm
1 
1102 So. Bend Ave. 
SUN. 9am-9pm
South Bend, Ind 
46617
1 !DISCOUNTS NOT AP-,I PLICABLE TO SPECIALS) 
KEN RAPPOPORT WILL AUTOGRAPH HIS BOOK FROM 10:00 A.M. TO NOON SATURDAY NOV. 1 NOW ON SALE 2ND FLOOR NO BOOKSTORE 



~ ~;;;;;;;;;;;~~;;;;~~:u~~rz-~F::ri~da1y~,-;i;Oc~t·obilel:rid31, 
1975 
' 

Halloween ghost's resting place. (Photo by Chris Smith) 

Crowd behavior result of de-individualization 
by Mary Pat Tarpey Staff Reporter 

It is halftime of the big game and your team is winning. An exuberant fan hurls a can into,the mass of people while others rush onto the field .. What causes this? Why do people act the way they do in crowds? 
According to Prof. Richard Sebastian of the Psychology Department, "People indeed do behave differently in crowds than in a small group or as an in­dividuaL" The reasons are varied and apply differently to each person . 
Psychology Professor Lloyd Sloan said de-individualization is the most useful proposition in relation to crowd behavior. It developed from the old theory of the "crowd mind" or "collective mind", a uniformity of behavior in a crowd. 
In explaining de-individualization Sloan stated, "People get into a crowd and since there are so. many people there is less chance of 
identification. Con­sequently, people feel safe. The responsibility for an act they perform as a group is diffused." 

r 
Sloan cited the example of a person

r 
throwing a brick from a crowd. 

r He realized the police will' probably not jump into the crowd and arrest him. 
I ' Sebastian added, "Essentially the person really doesn't feel distinct as an individuaL An im­portant factor is anonymity. He is a person without a name, without. a face." Also incorporated into this is the idea of imitation or contagion. This is the process where the one person's actions in a cro~d initiates the same response m others. 
Sebastian said, "When the person is bombarded. by stim~li he more likely reacts m magmtude behavior. In this state of higher arousal, certain cues are more salient than others, which can lead to imitation of other people, this is an important part of crowd behavior." 
Crowd behavior results in lowering the restraints in a person, Sebastian explained. This loweri_ng can be attributed to the de-m­dividualiztion, but also the setting of the crowd. expecially in the situation of a football _game or 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31st 
HALLOWEEN SPECIAL 



''$.01 BEER'' 
FROM 7 P.M. TO 9 P.M. FROM 9-11 P.M. $.10 DRAFT FROM 11-1 A.M. $.20 DRAFT (WE WILL NOT MAKE CHANGE SO BRING PLENTY OF PENNIES) ENTERTAINMENT NIGHTLY 
RIVER BEND PUB 
441 E. LA SALLE AT NILES AVE. 
pep-rally. 
Sebastian commented, "The lowering of restraints leads to action one would not normally perform . Many things in a crowd setting affect behavior. The general arousal comes from the setting affect• behavior. The inhibitions one normally has are lowered." 
He also added that in a football situation possibly the amount of alcohol 'consumed or possibly drugs can aid in lowering. the restraints one would have m a normal situation. 
According to Sloan, another interesting factor in crowd behavior related to football, is the impact of the game on viewers. "There has been much supportive data indicating that watching agression makes people feel more agressive." 
He added that this agressive feeling can be expressed in two ways. "Either they become agressive in action or they are annervated. They feel stronger about whatever they felt beforehand." 
Sebastian agreed with Sloan's view. "ObservatiOn of violence promotes heightened agression," he said. "it is generally agreed that ob­servaiton of collision sports could promote overt agression in some conditions-in some observers. Just watching the game is stimulating. Many times fans dodge with their runner. They are making overt and implicit the agressive response they are watching." 
Sloan indicated a researcher 
sewral years ago showed that 
people feel differently_ after a 
football game than before. Results 
show that most people leaving a 
football game exhibit an increase 
in agression. However the people 
supporting the winning team 'tend 
to have a greater increase in 
agressiveness than the losers. 
Slaon suggested the reason for this could be due to the punish­ment-reward ideas. "When peoplE see other people being rewareded for agression in football that af­fects their status.. A reason the loser to shows a less increase in agressiveness is that their team had been punished." 
The after-game agression takes shape in many forms. One could be the fan 11acing away from 
(continued on page 5) 


ND-SMC retardedr·········sUNDAY".MASsES········; 
council initiates·.· ticket exchange e 
by cathy Nolan Starr Reporter  : :  
The  Notre  Dame-Saint  Mary's  •;  
council  for  the  retarded  will  •  

sponsor a football ticket exchange : . program for the Notre Dame-:' 
'ieorgia Tech football game. The • ticket exchange will be held Nov. 3 ; and 4. • 

: Fr Bill Toohey will be the homilist : 
The Pll;rpose of_ the exchandgde 11l•••••••••••••••••••••..••••••••••••••••••••••••
program Is to provide the retar e ~h:a::::.=.::::.:.;:.:.;.:;.;.;;;;.;,;;;-..;.;;;...;;;;...______________-, 
the opportunity to attend a Notre Dame football game. The retard­ed, ranging in age from 5 to 83 years, are residents of the South Bend community. According to Tom Harbin, chairman of the exchange, the council hopes to receive 250 student football tickets. 
The ticket exchange will be set up in the North and South dining halls, as well as the Saint Mary's dining hall. It will take place on Monday and Tuesday, Nov. 3 and 4 during the dinner meal only. If necessary, the program will be extended to Wednesday, Nov. 5. 
The student tickets that are collected will be distributed among 
NOW PLAYING 




1OJ a.,,l«i ·~ ~rn 
1MILE NORTH OF N.D. CAMPUS ON U.S. 31-2J7.15ZZ FORUM I 
AHAl. WALIJS •"rod!Kio~~a  
rjJQJJjf]  ~ ~SI'~  
~·-~ AUNIVERSAL PICTURE • TECHNICOLOR' • PANAVISION-'  ~l~(........ the l.tul3l} FPGr e e  

Fri. at 7:00,9:00 PM. Sat.-Sun. at 1:15,3:10,5:10,7:20,9:45 PM Parking 
FORUM II 

a~~~Ks· routtcfRAIKEHSli\b ~ 

.!
(Main Church) 
5:15 pm Sat. 
9:30 am Sun. 
10:45 am Sun. 
12:15 pm Sun. 
. 
Evensong at 4:30pm in the Lady Chapel • 

e 
Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 5 
• 
Fr. Thomas McNally, C.S.C. :
• 

Fr.  John Gallen, S.J.  • :  
Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C.  : •  
:  


a fur ski iacket? Yes! YOUR winter coat is at Mr. Leonard's! 
Read on -this year will
very likely your winter coat be all or part fur. You should shop at a furrier for the best quality, the ultimate in knowledge and service, regardless of whether you buy a $179 rabbit jacket off the rack, or the fanciest mink in the vault. And, don't be intimidated by a "fur shop." You can shop off the rock just as in xour favorite reody·to·weor shop! think on it! 
right now save 25%-35% on our entire stock of 

EVERYDAY FURS 
cash, layaway, extended terms available 
PARK FREE 
in OtJr own lot! 

1 • I I • 
. • • , ~ \ \ t \ ~ I I • • ' • 


,Friday, October :n, 1975 
the observer 
5

To become permanent 

Heir Juan Carlos gains temporary power 
MADRID, Spain <APl -The transfer of power, under Article Spanish government on Thurs­11 of the Spanish constitution, day night transferred power was made over government ra­temporarily from stricken Gen. dio and television and the semi­
I<'rancisco I<'ranco, 82, to his 37-official news agency Cifra. year-old heir, Prince Juan Car­It came moments after doc­los de Borbon. tors treating Franco said his 
The transfer was made in an 
stomach had been punctured to official notice, required by law, 
relieve a buildup of fluid in the abdominal cavity.
sent to parliament by Premier Carlos Arias Navarro. 
Legally, Arias' letter named the prince new head of stateAlthough the transfer legally "in functions," the same status was temporary, it was general­he had 15 months ago whenly expected to become per­J<'ranco suffered a near fatal manent with Franco's death. 
blood clot in his right leg. The announcement of the On that occasion, Franco 
Leakey discovers oldest known remains of man 
WASHlNGTON lAP> -Arch­l'Oiogists seeking the origins of man in East Africa said today they have discovered the oldest known remains of man's an­
eit>nt  ancestors  in  a  dry  river  
bed  in Tanzania.  
Dr.  Mary Leakey,  who  with  

her late husband, Louis, began searching for the fossilized re­mains of man 40 years ago, said the jaws and teeth of elev­l'n individuals had been found. 
They have been dated by ra­dioactive dating methods at be­tween 3.35 million years and :1.75 million years old, she said. 
"These are good firm dates," Dr. Leakey told a news confer­mce called by the National Ge­ographic Society, which has supported the Leakeys work 
since 1960. "They are now the earliest firmly dated hominid remains anywhere in the world," she said. Hominid is a term used to describe manlike creatures. The specimens first were dis-
Sloan examines crowd behavior 
(continued from page 4) 
the game. Although speeding doesn't necessarily indicate hostility or arousal, it could. 
Another example Sloan gave was the action following an Ohio State ­Michigan game. After the celebration l'nded, the street was lined with broken bottles, broken parking meters and plate glass windows of stores. Sloan suggested that due to the heightened arousal after the win, the students felt actions were a expression or resentment against the store owners of the town who "ripped them off." They felt they now had a chance to get back. 
Sloan also commenteo on the students going on the field at half­time at the USC game. "You must take into account the state of ex­citement or arousal. They were up for the game, really exhuberant. They were winning at half-time and they didn't expectct it. Their expectations weren't confirmed, but in a oosititve way. 
There was a big crowd and they felt secure. The two play on each other, the excitement of winning and the number of people in· volved." 
The leader in a crowd is un­determined and has no special set of characteristics. "There is a leader to the extend that he has started something unusual,"claims Sloan. 
Sebastian also adds, "It's not clear expecially in a stadium who is likely to be the leader." 
Sebastian said, that although there have been some problems outside the country, there does not seem to be any serious problems presently with spectators in American sports. 
covered last Dec. 26 and 27 when Leakey and some col­leagues traveled to a region known as Laetolil, about 25 miles south of Olduvia Gorge, site of many famous earlier ,::liscoveries. 
An expedition returned to the site last summer and the radio dating began at the University of California at Berkeley. The Berkeley dating of minerals found in the same fossil bed with the jaws and teeth are the source of the date. 

Components Sold 314.70 
Separately ... 
Specially priced system consists of Realistic's sensational OA-622 4-channel amplifier with SO and Quatravox R. four MC-500 walnut veneer bookshelf speakers and Realistic LAB-12C automatic changer There's only one place you can find it . Radio Shack. 
himself suggested the hand­years ago to succeed on event over. Legally, however, his con­of his death, retirement or in­sent is not required. capacity to rule. 
The prince, rejected in ad­Besides being head of state, vance by Spain's long silent po­the prince will become Spain's litical opposition, is scheduled first king since his grandfather, to preside at a cabinet meeting Alfonso XIII, abdicated in 1931. Friday. The temporary transfer of 
Franco named the prince six power. however, does not in-elude installation of the prince on the throne. That comes only with Franco's death. 
Doctors said they noted "no ostensible modifications" in Franco's condition Thursday but for the first time in several days they did not report wheth­er the general was conscious. 






llad1olhaeK 
REALISTIC® 2/4-CHANNEL PHONO SYSTEM AT A GREAT LOW PRICE! 

now appearing in the Mail Pouch Hoom 
SPIRIT OF ST. LOUIS 
(This weekend -no cover charge with sludenl I.D.) 
HAPPY HOUR Mon.-Fri. 4:00-7:30 LADIES' NIGHT Tues. 8:00-10:00 MEN'S NIGHT Thurs. 8:00-10:00 
EVERY MONDAY-REDUCED PRICES ON BEER AND BAR DRINKS 
Appropriate attire required for admittance 

p ush New Orleans Room 
George Graves 

and you can 

CHARGE IT 
AI Radio Shack 




The Observer 
an independent student newspaper Foundl'd Novl"'lllM-r 3, 1966 

Terry Keeney Ed1tor-1n-ch1ef Tom Modglin Bus1ness Manager Tom Whelan Advertis1ng Manager 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

•\I Rullwrford, Mannging Editor. Jim EdE'r, ExE'cutivE' Editor; Pat Hanifin, Ed:toriat Editor;, ko•n G•ro11ard, Nt'W~ Editor; Bob MadE'r, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Marys Editor, 
K~n Brndford, Copy Editor. Bill Brink, Sports Eaitor; Tom O'NPil. Ft'aturE'S Editor; Chris Smith, Plwhl Editor 
___N_•.,....:;•_l~J 171~ Bu••n•n 28:_1.,:.14:_:1.,:.1__"_____---j 
Friday, October 31, 1975 
~I I I ' )) I I

I• "We can't stop here, he's a 
·· 
_:_, .. 

. '•:·-·:·, -•_;;_. ... ·~··/ ...:._~:-~·~,~y:, ... :,.'·:.·:.: ··,";,' ~·-~~ :-. ..: ...-~., ..
·<:. 
•. :' .. ~ ,.., .. ·!· :.'t 
. . 4. 

sheet collector! '' 

P.O. Box Q 
Nixon ian Rhetoric 
near Editor: 
May I please nominate Mr. Thomas Evans for the Richard M. Nixon rhetoric award of 1975. qe is obviously the victim of a political conspiracy to deprive the Notre Dame Community. of witty, profound and socially· significant signs. 
Having been "bounded" into admitting that he is a liar, Mr. Evans, through crafty manipulation of Nixonese,("the main points ofmy letter have been missed;" lies and sensationalism 1re "immaterial in the light of" 
ue Dean's entrance; "the fact that discrepancies exist... should not cloud the issue;" l has effectively redirected the attack upon his accusers. 
He br'\liantly cites domicile privelf' o support his contention that •rl contract should not be lef . 'inding since "com­pliance d~. 1ot aut?matically imply ap e10.ent w1th those regulation, ;:.dhered to." Surely, the President couldn't have ap­pealed to the Supreme Court with more eloquence. 
l\1r. Evans is smart enough 

( * The 0 bserver1 
Night Editor: "Lonely" Dan Sanchez Assistant Night Staff: Chris Smith, Anne Reilly, Winnie 4ogan, Debbie Dahrling, Tim 
L. ~eiley L)ay Editor: Margie lrr, Maureen Flynn Copy Reader: Fred Herbst, Mary Egan Editorials: Martha Fanning Features: Val Zurblis Sports: Bill Brink Typists: Tessie Clemens, Tom O'Neil. Candy Frankovelgia, Mel Celeste Compugraphic: J. Alfred Spina Night Controller: Dave Rust Ad Layout: Pat Russell, Mike 
l Miller, Steve Slater } 

never to admit guilt but only in­judiciousness. Finally, he holds such respect for his fellow students that he suggests that the incident "could just as easily have occurred to any student on campus." 
Let me say sincerely. Mr. Evans. such modesty is not necessary; I doubt if any students I know would have acted inquite t.t>e way you did. Rest assured that History will vindicate you. In conclusion, if you ever find yourself being sued for libel and slander, and slander, and you are unable to raise the necessary legal fees for your defense, I would be more than happ~· to assist you. 
Categorically,
. 
Habbi Bods KarloH Michael Roemer '77 


Touch of Class 
DearEditor: 
Notre Dame Students have a lot of 
class 
Hundreds of them tutor students 
in South Bend; 
Hundreds more work in Logan 
Center; 

Notre Dame students show their concern for others by sup­porting the less fortunate -they contribute to AI Sondej's success; they spend their summers on CILA projects in Appalachia and Mexico and in the inner city; 
Business students help low 
income South Bend residents fill 
out their tax returns; 
Notre Dame Students help make 
more peoples lives easier than it is 
possible to count and that shows a 
lot of class. 
So who have so many long-time 
supporters of Notre Dame begun to 
question this student body's class? 
Becuase we blew it this weekend 
on nationwide television. We did 
show some class this weekend: 
Designing clever signs for your 
dorm, shows class; 
Removing not so clever, of­
fensive signs from your dorms 
shows class ; 
Creating a sign to replace the offensive signs which state: "I dislike SC\ (is this OK)", shows a 

great deal of class, especially for Dillon; Cheering our band shows class, booing SC's band does not; 
Cheering our team and coaches showed class booing SC's team and coaches did not -when NO's 
opponents enter the stadium we should observe a moment's : silence to allow them to cont­meplate what they've gotten themselves into; 
Tearing down goalposts shows no class whatsoever which is why the students remaining in the stands started booing immediately <it is alright to "boo" classless activities); , 
The greatest injustice during half-time was done to our own band, after a semester of hard work and preparation for their fisrt nationwide television ap­pearance this year, ABC had to interrupt the broadcast because students on the field destroyed the band's formations. 
There is no question that, as a whole Notre Dame Students have class. When they stood up and applauded both teams and stayed to hear both bands at the end of the game they were showing more class tnan most stadiums see in five home games ... 
... A spectator with cla-ss ap­preciates all quality performances and, except for the actions of a few of our own fans, we saw a lot of them this weekend. 
Ed byrne Student Body President 

Tom Fitzgerald Student Body Vice President 

Irish Spirit Lives On 
Dear Editor: 
This letter has been sent to Mr. ~"itzpatrick of the Sun-Times: 
Dear Mr. Fitzpatrick: 
I do not know if you make it a practice of responding to letters in your column, but I send this anyway, with the satisfaction of having set the record straight with at least yourself. I refer to your 
DOONESBURY 
ZONKCR, O"'Gce, IQHO 1H~ HC!-l­SORRY, MAN, tvA5SlcePING I 7HOIJfJHT INMYBW YO() tile!?& tASrN/6HT?I INIJOSTIJV•• 
I I 
~U,'rt:JtJ CIJU/..P IIAV~ 
TOW ME, 
by Garry Trudeau 
r CAM& /JACK EMLYII60T /TSMY IN AROlJN/J f'J4IC PAl), B.P. 1/NP I FIN/J HE's .. 
1HIS6UY... HEY, \ ) YOU BIJ.!!! 
1/&Y, ti/HO K&/3PS PlJT­TIN6 "MY­
FAIR tAI7f" £VtRY800Y 
o:f~n 
(XI 
t:?'t.we:r..... , . .,_ 

monte:Luma 's reuenge 

Costume 
, 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiray ram1rez 
Last week, the government released its final figures on Ho~iday Activities of the Nation. These figures showed, among other thmgs, that the majority of people in the U.S. have no imagination. The report states " ...Of the costum_ed trick or treate~s on this day <Halloween), eight out of ten Will be dressed as either ghosts ~r bums, i.e. public inebriate types." I realize that a ghost costume iS simple-two holes in a sheet (or a pillowcase for the petite) and you've got it. The "bum" may be even easier, as most students would simply need to show up for the desired effect. As far as the girls, they know what to do in order to pass for tramps. 
In an attempt to halt this trend, may staff has endeavored to 
arrive at some suggestions for novel Halloween garb: Wear a blue suit, dye your hair white and go as a Q-tip. Smoke a pipe, say vis a vis a lot and go as an English profess?r. Paint yourself red, white and blue and go as a South Bend fire 
hydrant. 

Wear dark glasses, carry a gun and instead of "trick or treat" say "stick 'em up". I myself used this costume last year. I did not get much candy, but I did get seven stereos and a color TV. 
Cover yourself with mucilage, roll around in a large trough of cornflakes and go as a piece of fried chicken. Wrap your body with banana leaves and go as a Havana cigar. Balance a shot-put on your head and go as a ball-point pen. 
Strip completely naked, go to sleep on a bed of ping-pong balls for a few hours, get up, spray-paint yourself white and go as a golf-ball. <For more permanent dimples, have a friend smash you all ov~r with the round end of a ball-peen hammer). Occasionally welts Will appear instead of dimples; if this happens do not worry. Stick some flowers in your ears and go as a hobnail vase. . 
Coat your body with Crisco to a depth of from one to two mches and go merry-making as dining hall French fry. Tape dead fish and beer cans all over your body and make the rounds as Lake Erie. Better yet, cut two holes in a sheet... 
column entitled, "What's Hap­pened to the Spirit of the Irish?" which appeared in Monday's Sun­Times, I feel myself qualified to answer that question, having recently finished my four-year stay at Notre Dame, and ex­periencing that spirit first-hand. 
You make specific reference in your column to the student mob which assembled on the football field at the halftime of the USC game, noting that the crowd at­tempted to pull down the goal posts before being stopped by the special police. Surely, Mr. Fitzpatrick, you realize that in any crowd, there will be those who act irresponsibly. However, speaking as one who witnessed the incident first-hand, it was my observation that the student body, not the special police, put a stop to this vandalism, and the "mindless leaders of the rabble," whom you enjoy referring to as such, took the initiative to straighten out the posts and repair the damage. 
I shall not carry on at length here attempting to fix blame for the halftime spectacle. People became carried away with emotion; it was rude of the student body to crowd on the field before the band had finished its show. It was in poor taste for the Trojan team to enter the stadium when it did, crossing the field before the band was finished. <The reason Notre Dame's Band, incidentally, had not yet cleared the field was that a longer halftime show resulted from the courtesy ex­tended to the Trojan Band, which performed first.) 
One wonders, Mr. Fitzpatrick, what you expect the Irish spirit to be...You may have put it so aptly yourself by wondering what happened to Coach Pat O'Brien and the "celluloid eleven." Perhaps if you looked beyond Hollywood and into Notre Dame, you would see what the spmt 
means. 

The spirit of the Irish is an in­tangible thing, one which must be experienced first-hand. I concede that it may be impossible, in the end, for you to understand the electricity of that spirit, being as you are on the outside. In that case, if you still feel that you cannot find the Notre Dame spirit as it was, then perhaps sometime next year, for a pep rally, we may hire Gov. Ronald Reagan to attend as George Gipp, and have him die on the stage uttering his legendary last words for you ... 
Michael P. Savino 
Class of 1975 


Friday, October 31, 1975 
Letters to a Lonely 

nouember in my soul 
reverend robert griffin 
i~"l(~~'d"'"d~ii don't rhy~e ~heer youthful exuberance! 
Wht•JJI'Vl'r I find myself growing grim about lht• mouth; wht'never I find myself involunt­arily pausing bt•fort' coffin warehouses, and bringing up the rear of every funeral I meet. ... tht•n I account it high time to get to sea as soon as I can. This is my substitute for pistol and ball. With a philosophical flourish ('ato throws himst"lf upon his sword; I quiet­ly takt• to tlw ship. 
Melville. 

November is a month that has always been full of death for me; it has always been a month I feel afraid of. When I was a child e1rowing up in Maine, the days of November 
,.,
wPre full of terror. Even if the sun were to 
shine. which it often did, I knew that tomorrow, the sky would be gray again, and thl' t>arth would be gray foever; and the wind would sigh with the sounds of grief as though it were a graying widow mourning the dying year. The sea which hugged the coast of our little city would be a mirror of th(' slat('-gray of heaven; the tides that 
tumbl('d into waves on the beach would be dl•solating and fierce and gray and lonely. Thert> would be gray mists over the water, and over th(' meadow as well. The fogs which visited the city from off the water 
would smell bad, as though the ocean had grown stale and flat. The gloom that hung over the night like a great, gray gull seemed as threatening as any bogey man that ever haunted a little boy's dreams. 
The first funerals I ever attended were in mourning for the deaths of November· 
That's because November was never kind to the grandparents in my family· Two of th('m died together in the same Thanksgiving week; a third died in a later November. I'm sure that if I knew when my other grandfather died, it would turn out to be that same bully of a month that proved to him his mortality. I don't remember a single death during my childhood that didn't occur in November, and every November had its funeral. Off we would go the the mortuary chapel and sit in the private rooms assigned to family. From another room. the minister would intone the 
TPnnysonian verses: "Sunset and evening 
star.-And one clear call for ffi(' '-And may th­tht>l'l' be no moaning of thebar,-When I put out to sea." 
The words became so familiar that even now. the picture I associate most familiarly with death is that of a brave lit­
tl · d t h · g th t s
1 
Jethro Tull will electrify its first South Bend audience in three years Saturday night at 8:00 at the ACC. 
Just what is a Jethro Tull concert? Tull is Ian Anderson: flutist, acoustical guitarist, lead vocalist, acrobat, ring leader, comedian, satirist, contortionist, magician. Anderson is total, perpetual dynamic motion in human form; he has the power of being all over the stage at one time; he picks up his flute, twirls it, then caresses it, only to turn around and force sounds out of it never heard before. He takes the listener to different heights of emotion; his vocals drive into you and move you. 
Tull is Martin Barre, who can set any mood with precise acoustic guitar work; who can also solo magnificently and rip away at melodic lines on electric guitar. 
Tull is Jeffery Hammond-Hammond: bassist, and Barriemore Barlow, drum­mer, who comprise the backbone of the group. providing intricate rhthyms and eounter-rhythyms. 
Tull is John Evan: keyboard man and resident maniac. He attacks, he pounds, he tears away at the piano, and he makes the organ come to life. 
Tull's first three albums--This Was, Stand Up. and Benefit-are all represen­tative of their basic sound. Influenced greatly by the blues and jazz that was rampart in England during the early years of the group, Tull introduced the genius of Ian Anderson's flute. This idea, along with Tull's changing image <to that of a "minstrel group"), is continued in the next two albums, Aqualung and Thick as a Brick, although here we see Anderson's music and lyrics pointing out tht> degeneration of society. 
frank laur1no 
Livin<1 in the Past, their next release,
" 

was more or less an anthology of excellent work. Their next album, A Passion Play, was met with the most aspersion. This unfortunate and unnecessary occurence was due to the fact that people again wanted a continuation of previous Tull (especially AtJualung and Thick as a Brick). Actually, A Passion Play is a very intricate, very difficult and an excellent piece of music. 
War Child seems to be a production purely for the sake of releasing a record. Some cuts have good potential, but they never seem to get off the ground. Tull's newest release, Minstrel In the Gallery is quite a different story. Here we see a svnthP.sis of Tull circa Aqualung with 
tationnew musical direction. lnstrumen­
and voals are intricate, yet they are 
interweave and blend smoothly. 

Saturday night, Tull will be playing a lot 
of new music from Minstrel In The Gallery 
and War Child, as well as a sizable chunk 
of A Passion Play. Work from earlier 
albums will by no means be ignored, but tnis music will most likely be in the form of 
medleys. There should be no fan of any 
form of Tull's music that will leave the 
concert unsatisfied. 

Besides the usual dynamo of electricity 
and stage presence Tull possesses, they 
are also well-known for theatrics 
<telephone calls, scuba divers, and zebras 
on stage are common). And with a 
rumored 30-plus tons of equipment to be 
dragged into the ACC, resulting in the 
change in position of the stage, it seems to 
be an understatement to say we are in for 
the best show of thfl year. But, of course, 
I'm slightly biased. So for you "Tull 
rhymes with Dull" advocates, stay home 
and study your Electromagnetic and 
Physical Theory. My floor seat awaits. 

between Bailey's Island and the seaport of Portland. Outside the little cabin where we sat huddled, the summer day was ending, and all the glory of an August vacaton was dissolving in a cold, chilling rain that promised the bleakness of an early winter. Somewhere on that trip we crossed the bar of the Portland harbor, as I knew, and af­terwards I could understand the structure of 
Tennyson's imagery. 
There were sailors in our family. I had 

fathers and grandfathers who followed the 
sea; and great grand-uncles who perished 
with their father, my great great grandfath­
('r, in a winter storm off the coast of 
Newfoundland. There were five brothers or 
seven brothers lost in that wreck. My moth-
l'r has told me the number, but I have 
forgotten what it is; somewhere there must 
be a record of such a tragedy. But to the 
sailor's grandchild from the New England 
t•oast. and the great grandchild of the 
Yankee fisherman, there are images of the 
land and sea which must always remind him 
of life and death, not from the tired 
metaphors of poetry, but from the grief and 
worry of widows he has heard of, who 
watched at the harborside for the mates and 
captains and cabin boys that the ebbtide 
never brought home. 

Somewhere back East among heirlooms 
carefully preserved, there is a small, brass 
compass, and there are sea charts and 
calipers that were given to me by my 
grandfather. Journeys had been traced 
upon those charts, my grandfather, the old 
sea captain, told me back in the days when 
he was a young sea captain. The compass 
had belongedtohis father and grandfather ·he 
said; and he had never gonetosea without It, 
though to me it seems rather modest as an 
instrument of navigation. Along with the 
compass and the sea charts, there is another 
family keepsake; it is my grandmother's 
Bible. It, too, seems modest enough; but it 
was the chart she used for salvation, she 
said; it was the compass she steered her life 
by. It brought her through storms and 
rough waters; it comforted her on nights 
wh('n darkness hid the moon and the stars. 
As a seaman, 1 am told, my grandfather 
was one of the best sailors afloat; he could do 
anything with water but drink it, and he 
was the youngest captain ever to sail out of 
the port of Portland. As a sailor, he was a 
great success; but at the local Methodist 
church. he was considered a sinning failure. 

1.1e. would also have .been considered a i:d""""a"""'n"""c"""::;r........................................................._ b "' 
!allure at the Cathohc Church, ut the :..u...............; 
~ 

E For sheer youthful exuberance, last : night's final South Bend performance of the national Ballet Repertory Company well deserved the large crowd and extended applause it drew in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The dancers proved themselves to be technically proficient, sometimes even masterful; but it was their youthful energy that enabled them to do leaps and pirouettes they've surely done many another time, and 
yet convey a sense of joy at being on stage, at using their bodies to stretch out in pursuit of what is literally corporal expression.
ITheir remarkable performance made it clear why dance has been popular as liturgy, art and entertainment throughout· 
• recorded history. 

Not all was perfect. The Company first presented a newly-choreographed ballet on American composer Howard Hanson's 1948 Piano Concerto, and the music was not the piece's strong point. Hanson's concerto lacked drive, somehow, and depth. But the dancers pulled sentiment from the audience, made the music work, and in the 
:end created an ambiance of youthful idalliance and ,exploration that suited wellithe Company's particular talents. 5 A short "Spring waters" (music by Sergi 5 Rachmaninoff> dance featured dancer 5 Linda Marx's beautiful glissant and leap 3into the steady arms of her partner, drawing 5gasps and spontaneous applause from the iaudience.i The program's only dramatic offering EWas. "Icarus,"' whose music was composed iby Shin-Ichi Matsushita. llRichard Prewitt idanced Icarus, the imprudent son of 5Daedalus who goes winging toward the sun, ionly to see his wings of wax melt on his arms iand go falling to his death. Prewitt, dressed ~only in tights, was very I fine as Icarus, and !his dance made an effectively dramatic 
...............................................................................................................•.............................................. ...i, 
Catholic church never did like Yankees. The Methodist church expected my grand­father to be a better Christian than he ever turned out to be. He was prayed for regularly at the Methodist church, but it didn't to any good. Methodist prayers didn't stop him from his drinking, for example. Methodist prayers couldn't stop George Griffin from drinking any more than holy water could turn meat 
fish. Even when mygrandmotherbecame president of the Women's Christian Tern­perance Union, he still drank; sometimes he 
ld h t th · t'

wou even s ow up a e1r mee mgs,drunk. He would show up at th e1r· meet'mgs, and offer to treat the ladies to rum, but of 
f th ld t h 't M
course none o em wou ever ouc 1 . y
d h ld • · h M th d' t
gran mot er cou n t 1mpose t e e o IS 
th' f d h h' h · · 

e 1cs o roug t on 1m; t e mm1ster couldn't dry him up; and the entire prayer meeting of the Methodist conference couldn't bring him to accept Christ as his 
personal saviour. 

I have always felt that in the history of the marriage of my grandparents, there was lived out the warfare between light and 
d k th t ggl b t g d
ar ness, e s ru e e ween pa an an 
Christian, the proselytizing that goes on 
between missionary and aborigine. My 
grandmother was a prayerful, Christian 
woman. surrounded by hymnbooks. Her 
favorite hymn was "Trust and Obey", and , 
as a child, would sing it to her: "When you 
walk with the Lord-In the Light of His word-
What Glory He sheds on our way..." From 
being raised in a little fishing village, she 
belonged as much to the sea as my grand­
father did. The popular ballad "Red Sails in 
the Sunset" could reduce her to a romantic 
reverie she never invited me to share; but 
her reaction to the song always made me 
think of her as a sailor's sweetheart. When 
I think of her as a Methodist, I think of her 
playing sea anthems of salvation on the 
organ, while I sang in piping, quavering 
notes: "Throw out the lifeline, throw out the 
lifeline-Someone is drifting away.-Throw 
out the lifeline, throw out the lifeline-
Someone is dying today." When I think of 
her as a Christain, I remember her as the 
gentle cookie-maker who loved Jesus very 
much, and who first planted in my mind the 
idea of becoming ordained as a preacher. 
My final memory of my grandfather is of 
him as a~ old. man close to death, and we ~oul~ dnve h1m t.o the promenade, there, w1lh w1se and practiced eyes, he would gaze 

daue rust 

· t ·t' t th ld th' k
JUX apos1 1on o e o er, 1c er 
t f h' f th <D 'd C )

movemen s o IS a er av1 ueras . Rebecca Drenick played the sun, shim­mering in a gold dress, seducing the youth t d h 'th 1 t f h
owar er WI every supp e urn o er body and the incredibly smooth undulations of her arms. Watching Icarus go down to 
his death was painful indeed, because Prewitt made it painful. Matsushita's music was also good. 
. Along with .Prewitt the standouts of the show were Lisa Lockwood and especially Roman Jasinki, who led the dancing in the Company's final presentation entitled "Bournonville Divertissement" <after the name of its French Romantic composer, August Bournonville). These excerpts from Bournonville's ballets, all written to elaborations on lively French folk tunes by Gade, Heisted and Paulli, gave a chance for: the individuals of the company to show their E stuff. The men proved to be uniformly~ excellent, and the women, for the most part, a also danced well, but for one girl who E seemed to have trouble standing on one foot, E jerking nervously back to a standing E position in advance of her partners. ~ 
Still, it was an impressive ending for the i evening, under the gala colored lights and i fish net which provided an airy ceiling fod the dancers, and the applause at program's i end was sustained. E The Ballet Repertory Company visited~ South Bend under the auspices of thei American Ballet Theatre, which created thei Company in 1972 so that it might serve as a "an important artistic and educationallinki between the American Ballet Theatre and~ the small communities of the nation." Itsi visit to northern Indiana was sponsored byi 
Saint  Mary's  College,. the  Un!vers!tY  of~  
Notre  Dame,  and  Ind1ana  Umvers1ty  at5  
South Bend.  :  

at the waters of the , as though judging where the shoals and chan­nels were that he mustnavigateon a journey outward bound to an eternally snug harbor. 
For though from out our bourne of Time and Place thf" rlood may bear me far, I hopt' to see my Pilot face to face When I have crost the bar 
When he died on the last Monday of November, my grandmother, on hearing the news, died just a short timelater, as though
h d'd t t t h'
s e I no rus 1m to make the journey aI.one. .I d on 't th'mk she ever made a voyagew~th h1m .before; but on that last perilous 
t I th k h t t d h
np, m s e rus e er charts more 
th h d'd h' h' k
an s e 1 IS. I t m she brought him 
1 t h d
10me o eaven, an not a temperance heaven full of Methodists, either, where he would have been bored. I think it was a heaven of Galilean fisherman, where there was good company, and a yarn to tell, and maybe a glass of rum for all hands aboard. November awaits us with its gray days and gray skies and dead earth. The sobbing 
f th · d t'll k f f 1
o e wm s 1 rna es me ear u of Joss but Iam learning not to be afraid of th~ journey that all creatues must make. Thinking of my grandparents. I tell myself 
that death is a journey that lovers make to sit atlhefeet of love. As with the fear that is edged with hope, our bitterest month begins w1th the feast celebrating the Communion of saints and the comfortable corollary of doctrine assuring us that we move in the company of friends through the shadows 
that separatethe evening from the morning. I can not prove that it is so; yet I like to suspect that the courtesies of earth are a foreshadowing of the politeness of heaven. In.all their fifty-five years of marriage, the bnde of the Yankee fisherman never had to open a door that her husband could open for her. His dying first was like the kindness of entering an unfamiliar room to see if there are cobwebs; after that, she provided the faith and courage that was needed for their adventure. 
You don't have to be a Methodist to love a woman. My grandfather, rascal though he was at limes, loved his wife, and she loved him unrepentant. There was a brightness to 
their love that they took off with them to heaven. It was the loss of that brightness that showed me November as a gray and lonesome place that breaks the heart. 
..................................... 
--·~­

-=8:___ ___:_t.:...:hc..::e=-----=o:..:b=--=-s--=e=-=r-v_e-=--r----Fridav, october 31, 1975 
Sonozone process 

ND plant pilot lor waste-water treatment 
Florida. chlorine, once added to water, can University pays a fee) the day may such a situation were to arise the by Jorge Ferreiro The Indiantown plant is the build up in lakes and dammed up come when rising waste treatment possibility of erecting a Sonozone 
Staff Reporter world's first community sized areas, becoming a pollutant itself. costs may force the University to plant here could very well become waste-water treatment plant to More importantly, chlorine treated build its own treatment facility. If a reality.utilize the Sonozone process. Its water is lacking in oxygen. When Revolutions don't normally capacity is significantly larger this oxygen deficient water is 
••••••••••••••••••• .,•
occur in America. They happen than the tst plant at Notre Dame (it dumped into rivers and waterways even less frequently at Notre can treat 576,000 gallons of sewage it can bring about the death of fish Dame. Yet what may be one of the per day versus 20,000 gallons per an other water life since the level • A Notre Dame • most revolutonary of new concepts day for the Notre Dame facility). of dissolved oxygen in the water is • tradition since e had its fetal stage of development Since coming into existence a year not high enough to support living • 1936 -you'll see • in Our Lady's womb. ago, the facility has become an organisms. more quarterbacks •
The archaic modes of waste and international show place, at­Ozone treatment of wastes • 
here than on 
sewage are being threatened by a tracting interested parties from all eliminates virtually all of these 
• the field. e
new procedure called the Sonozone around the world. difficulties. Ozone itself even­process. The Sonozone process The use of ozone as a water­tually breaks down to oxygen, basically involves the subjection of purifying agent is not a new thing. leaving no pollutants. Consequent­
• In Our •
sewage to the action of ozone and In Europe ozone has been used for ly, ozone treatment means that the ultrasonic waves. The very first over 75 years in the treatment of treated water is enriched in • Celebrity Lounge • functional Sonozone plant was built water for drinking purposes. The oxygen therebv allowing it to here at Notre Dame. Since then novelty of the Sonozone process support water life•. An added Chuck :
:

the idea has caught on like wild­lies in its utilization of both ozone attraction is that no bacterial fire. and ultrasonic waves to treat growth is observed in treated e White e sewage. The sound waves break waste. The Sonozone process is so • Piano Bar and Dancing • Indiantown plant large scale down the sewage into tiny par­effective thut the treated water is 
• 1 27 N. Main St. • Downtown • Free Parking •
ticles, exposing more surface area clearer than the distilled water 
Early in 1971 Telecom-and thereby allowing ozone to which is used to calibrate the munications Industries Inc. inst­oxidize the contaminant matter equipment. alled a pilot plant and study unit at more rapidly and completely. At Notre Dame, the College of Notre Dame. The engineering Ozone (03) is a highly active form Engineering faculty members 




t•••jUltJC>R<:LASS••1
department at Notre Dame worked of oxygen. associated with the Sonozone with Til in the testing and project are, among others, Dr. development of the pilot program. Chlorine causes problems William Berry, Dr. Lloyd Ket­The Sonozone treatment plant is chum, Dr. Stuart McComas and 
t HAYRIDE t 
housed on campus in a garage Chlorine is used in conventional Dr. Kwang-Tzu Yang. Also, Dr. behind Carrol Hall. The Notre waste treatment plants to treat Morris Pollard of Lobund Labs is Dame plant is of small capacity sewage. The use of chlorine, working on the effects of ozone on : Friday October 31 8pm -lam : and was only used for studying the however, causes some con­bacteria and viruses. feasibility of the project. Til has siderable problems. First of all, Although all of Notre Dame's since built a large scale waste t­the treated sewage still contains sewage is currently treated by the t BEER, HOT DOGS, : reatment nlant in Indiantown, bacteria and viruses. Secondly, city of South Bend (for which the 
t :
BONFIRE


Art gallery grovvs •
ID quality : $2.00 per person + 
(continued from page 3) expressionist graphics and this room. :BUSES LEAVING NO CIRCLE: 
collection of American Indian drawings this summer. The Gallery is open from 10:00 to artifacts; and a host of other art Also received this summer on 4:45 and on weekends from 1:00 to • 8:00 8:20 8:40 9:00 9:20 historical and stylistic 5:00 . There is no admission
extended loan is a group of some 
••.................~ • 
classifications. A few of the 200 graphics, by artists such as charge. 
better known works include Of­Goya, Whistler, and Manet. Anot­fel'ing of a Rose, an 

her recent addition is a collection of 27 old masters oil paintings. An
18th century French oil painting by additonal important acquisitionFrancois Boucher; Mirror, a 20th 





CDUNTYSBAT
was piece of sculpture by Gaugin. 
century oil by Pablo Picasso; Burgher of Calais, a 19th century It should be noted that most of 

painting by Marc Chagall; and The these works are not on display at Ashbaugh 1\ladonna, a 20th cen­the present. Much of the gallery's tury wood sculture by Ivan collection remains in the vaults,Mestrovic, artist in residence at below the exhibit galleries. In fact,Notre Dme from 1956-1962. 

at present only 15 pieces of the 
nSJeans
Names of well-known artist permanent collection are being sh-such as Rembrandt, Thomas own. Bakins. Gericault, Botticelli, 
The reason for this is a lack of 
,
Albrect Durer, Charles Russel, space. Conyers attributed this Delacroix, Cezanne and Gugin are partly to the rapid expansion of the sprinkled throughout the catalogue collection. He said however. that 

listing the works in the collection the staff has high hopes for ex­

at Notre Dame. pansion. 
• 

A number of recent acquisitions Alterations are being done in have increased both the quality theMasterpiece Room. Included is and the size of the collection. In a showcase for the exhibition of particular, the gallery received a ivories, small terra cota pieces loan of a group of 300 German and glass pieces is being built in 
r----------~ ------~--,
I RADIATOR I, 
I 1/J I 
I l<:..epairing. 'I 
I I
li ~~
UWE CAN HANDLE THE TOUGH ONES" 
Reg.
SINCE 1922

I 289-5850 I $14-$15 
I I Beat those schooltime blues with jeans from County Seat. Inseveral famous styles and fabrics. These hard-working 
I I 
Jeans are made to last and last. And give you a fit you 
I I 
wouldn't believe. 
I I 
I I I I Need we mention
I I
.CLEANING • RECORING 
ourfamous maker?
I • GAS TANK REPAIRING I "TOUGH GUY" I
I Welding -Heaters 
I 11 ::::~:::·KA I rcouxnSEAT1 
(((.J~ S T 0 RES '~G))) ~~ ~~ ~~ 
I"IF YOU HAVE A ROUGH TRIP AHEAD 
I SALE 
I OF YOU, CHECK OUT THE I SATURDAY -TUESDAY I 'TOUGH GUYS'." I Scottsdale Mall (now open) 
~--------------------J 
%UP 

Begin in 'vacuum of information' 
Rumors plague campus 
by Barbara Breitenstein Starr Reporter 

The recent wave of stories predicting the firing of Dan Devine, head football coach, after the Air Force game has brought to attention again the prevelance and 
effects  of  rumors  on  the  Notre  
Dame campus.  
"Most  rumors  deal  with  

athletics," Richard Conklin, director of Information Services explained, "because of the national exposure of Notre Dame, especially in football. There's a market for the 'inside story' there." 
A rumor, specifically, is a specific or topical proposition for belief passed along from person to person usually by word of mouth without secure standards of evidence being present. 
How do such rumors get started? 
According to Associate Professor of Psychology Donald Kline, quoting the theories of Allpost and Postman presented in the book Psychology or Rumor, there are three main motivations which compel people to begin rumors--the need to rationa:ize one's feelings about someone or something, to give meaning to a situation to oneself, or to allow one to take a slap at something which they dislike. 
"Humors usually begin in a vacuum of information," Conklin offered. "The rumor rushes in to fill the gap." 
Once rumors are begun, they are credible, according to Kline, depending upon the source from which it is heard. If it comes from someone who might have access to such information, someone who presents some evidence to support their story, or the first person from which the story is heard, the listener is more likely to believe it. 
Then, stoppmg the rumor becomes the problem. "You must make the truth fully known as quickly as possible," Kline suggested, "and make sure the !.'Vidence there to contradict is widespread." 
"We have to particular mechanism for handling rumors," Conklin revealed. "We try to find out the facts and to verify the rumor.'' 
"Another tactic we use is humor," Conklin continued. "For instance, at the height of the Devine rumors, we started spreading our own that Jimmy· Hoffa was buried in the end-zone 
Seniors sponsor 
armory party 
'i he senior class officers have 1 announced that they will sponsor a ! senior class armory party. The party, which will be held on Saturday, Nov. 8, will have the theme, The Last Hurrah, and will only be open to seniors and their guests. 
Tirkets for the event will go on sale Monday, Nov. 3. They may be purchased at the dining halls during the dinner hours (5-6:30 p.m.). In addition, tickets may also be bought starting Monday at 
theStudent Union ticket office from 
1-5 p.m. Ticket prices are $3.00 per person and $5.00 per couple. 
The party, to be held at the South Bend Armory, will begin at 8:30 
p.m. and will run until 1:00 a.m. Music will be provided by Fawn, a rock group from Chicago. There will be continous music and refreshments will be provided. 
Buses to the party will leave the 
main circle starting at 8:30 p.m. Seniors are urged to use the buses, as the senior class officers are taking responsibility for the party. "We would appreciate it if people 
would take the buses, but if they don't, we urge them to be careful,'' said Betsy Kall, Senior Class secretary. 
Age 21 I.D.'s must be shown at the door by seniors and their guests. 
where Rockne is supposed to be buried, and that that was the cause of that shaky play inside the twenty-yard line." Conklin stressed that this was merely a facetious rumor on his part. 
A prominent rumor at Notre Dame, besides the Devine furor a few weeks ago, was one last year which suggested that University I President Fr. Hesburgh might resign when President Ford visited the campus and take a government office in that administration. 
"Some rumors are seasonal every year," Conklin explained. 
~----------­
"For instance, every April there's a rumor that Fr. Hesburgh is leaving the University. The reasons vary every year. This year I predict it will be because he has now served longer as president than Sorin, so he has broken that barrier, and now can resign." 
Of the rumors about Devine, Conklin said the rumor was generally believed, despite a strong denial by the University which was part of the report, because it was broadcast first by the media, and people tend to believe that source first. 
.. 

m~r Qinlnnial 1}nttcnkr ~nuat :_~ 



''Enjoy ~.:>:;D.?-:~•~•••-:~-:~ ..:,~}:~2:;:~>::·:•:>•.~
:::: 35 VM1eties of Pancakes ::: hh,ckr>n Steak Sandwiches \ (Friday Nites: Perch Dinners::: 
:~:::::::::::;.;-:::::.:-:·:·:-:~-:-:·:::·:-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::iS! 
Your fio<,l

us. 31 (OixiewclY) North (Across from Holiday Inn) Bob Edwards, NO '5(). 
The Story Of College Football's Greatest Coach As told By The Men Who Played For Him by John D. McCallum and Paul Castner 
WE REMEMBER ROCKNE is far more than a book only for sports fans. It is for everyone who believes in per­fection and the struggle to reach that goal. Knute Rockne was many men; a fascinating mix of vigorous activity and talents. He was a no-nonsense man with the highest of standards; making every minute of every hour count. 
Rockne has been dead for nearly 45 years, and there have been many books in the past ... so why another book? To share his spirit, ideals, determination and unfor­gettable personality with younger generations not lucky enough to personally witness this legend. And to rekindle the neglected feelings of pride and accomplishment en­joyed from ajob well done. 
No other book has been able to capture the intimacy of his spirit quite like WE REMEMBER ROCKNE. And none will ever again be able to relate the behind-the-scene stories and emotion as have the "Men of Rockne." 
This is THE book about the man, his philosophy, prin­ciples and the game he loved. And it's told by the men who knew him best. Get to know him well11! And make sure your children and grandchildren get to know him; men like Rockne are hard to find! 296 pages, clothbound 
7 95 

· .. $ . NOW ON SALE 2nd FLOOR 
N.D. BOOKSTORE 
..,.-------......... 
, .... .... ­
, , Send me copies of WE REMEMBER ROCKNE,
/ "" "" 

/ no. 882, clothbound ••• $7.95 
/ /// Name _____________________________ _ 
I 

',Addre~-----------------------------­
', Ci~--------------------~----------­
'', State_____________________________ 
' ' z·

' ..... ...._ •P-----------------­
..... 
-..... 
Friday, octob-;_r__!1L197s the observer SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE-DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just 
mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
except home football game weekends. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. Send this ad to your parents 
from 10 am to Noon. 
1 0 the observer Friday, October 31, 1975 
Plans food ecology too 
SMC plots energysaving vvays 
by Liz Merrell Starr Reporter 
The SMC Energy Committee met lastThursdayfor the first time to discuss vanous ways of con­serving energy throughout the campus. 
The committee was formed at 
the request of St. Mary's President, John Duggan. According to Duggan, "We would be remiss if we remained unconcerned about energy problems. Students should leave here educated in the aspects of ecology and the entire com­munity must become aware of and involved with energy con­servation." 
Efforts have been made in the 
past to conserve fuel. Frank Coonts of Central Utilities on campus explained that pipes have been insulated and that steam is being recycled to heat buildings more efficiently. He reported that the average annual coal consumption was reduced by 700 tons in 1973 and by 500 tons in 1974. 
Kay Hall, chairman of the committee, is encouraged by the past success with fuel economy and plans to instigate several new programs in an attempt to curtail the college's fuel usuage. 
Included in these plan's will be the rigid regulation of temperature in the buildings. Mrs. Hall is requesting that excessive tem­peratures be reported to the hall director of herself. 
WANTED 
Needed: Two or Four GA Georgia Tech. tix. Call Steve at 287-2051 
2 GA Georgia Tech. tix. Call 259· 0631 after 5pm 
Need 2 GA tickets to Navy game. Please call Ceil at 4648 
Need one ride to Chicago. Friday Oct. 31 Call Anne 7836 
Desperately need 2 GA tickets for G.eorgia Tech. Call Ron 3374 
Need two or four GA Georgia Tech. tickets. Will pay $$. Help! Call Mary at 5135 
one Georgia Tech GA ticket needed. Call Tom 1001 
Need GA Navy and Georgia Tech. and Pitt tix. 1652 
Needed male to share two bedroom house. Mishawaka. 259-9173 
Need 3 or 4 Pitt tickets. Charlie 233-3769 
Needed: 2 GA Navy fix. Call Jen at 7248 
Need 4 GA tickets together for Navy. Call Paul 1146 
Need 4 GA tickets for Navy. Call 1683 
Need 2 GA tix to Georgia Tech. game. Call Sal 6984 
Need GA tickets for Navy and Georgia Tech. Call 287-5113 
Need 3 Pitt. tix. Call 3332 or 3334 
Need 2 Junior Class Pitt. tr1p packages. Call 4424 
'Desperately need 2 Jethro Tull tickets. Call Jim at 3610 or 3593 
Wanted afternoon part time help. Ca II 259-9090 after 1 :00 ask for Dennis. T & C Theatre 
Need ride to Louisville weekend of the 15th or 22nd. Call 7920 
Desperately I need 5 GA tix to Georgia Tech. Call 4430 


,.............................. 
: TIMM PARTY STORE ! 
•OPEN: MON-SAT 9am-11pm • 
• :  SUNDAY  12noon  -1 1 pm  • :  
•  COLD BEER,WINE, LIQUOR,  :  
:  GORMET FOODS  •  

: 3114 S. 11 St. NILES, MICHIGAN : 
: "BIGGEST LITTLE : • LIQUOR STORE IN MICHIGAN" • 
602 So. Walnut (Formerlr lrvins) Phone 232-2494 
The lighting in classroom buildings is going to be kept at a minimum during daylight hours. "We won't be taking away the light necessary to conduct a class. We are concerned with the amounts of electricity wasted by allowing lights to remain on unused," Hall stated. 
In order to promote this par­ticular program, signs are being posted on many lightswitches th­rough tout the buildings to remind 
students  and  faculty  of  iheir  
responsibility  in  helping  save  
energy.  
A program  facilitating  food  

ecology has been initiated by Charlie Flaim, manager oftheSMC dining Hall. Flaim announced that for the past several weeks, he has been working in specific areas of food conservation. A marked improvement has occured due to this concentrated effort. Flaim says, "People are really trying to help us out. They are cooperating and we certainly appreciate that." 
A subcommittee of the Energy Committee has been assigned the taskforfinding out how the students can become more involved with the program. They will be looking into recycling collecting paper to be sold, and various awareness programs. 
Hall mentioned that everyone can help by opening the curtains in the rooms during the day instead of turning on the lights. Anyone in ­teres ted in learning more about energy conservation should con­tact Joe Bellina of the SMC chemistry department. Anyone interested in helping out with this effort should contact Mrs. Hall in the Alumnae office. 
The next meeting of the Energy Committee is scheduled for _Nov. 5. 
·--­



CLASSIFIED ADS 
Need 2 or 4 Jethro Tull Tix. Cll Car for sale: 1964 Dodpe 440.
IBM Selectric II Typing, student
Julie 4220. 
Automatic, power steering, radio

rates, dissertations, Linda-s Lett. Desperately need 4 GA tickets for ers 289-5193 
and stereo speakers. Fixable Georgia Tech. Will Pay! Call brake line leak. 18 mpg on high. John 3039 way $260. Call 277-0965 after 6:30
Accurate, fast 'typing. Mrs. 
Donoho 232-0746 

Wanted: 4 GA Navy tix and 4 GA Jewelry: finished pieces, coral, 
Georgia Tech. tix. Call 5107 turquoise, sterling, diamonds,
Learn sport parachuting the safe engagement sets. Low prices. 234­
way at Oxbow Air Sports Center. 2 Need 2 GA tickets for Georgia 
7063

WI. special $35.00 jump course plus Tech. Please call Mike 1503 
$15.00 for first jump. Conlact Dale Macrame jewelry and plant
683-8980 John 1-782-3500 I need 2 GA tix for Ga. Tech. Steve hangers. Call Barb 233-3876 272-8890 
Free ride to Mass. for For sale: 2 GA Navy tickets $25.
Thanksgiving to any senior over 21 Need 4 Georgia Tech. GA tickets. 
Call Ed 8463

willing to sign for a rented van. Call Peggy 4-4198 
Of/'~r riders to pay all expences. Top quality stereo componments,
Call 1022 after 5:00 . Ask for Jim. Desperately need 2 Ga Navy factory sealed, full warrenty, at 
tickets. Call John 1816 super student discounts. Call
"Gay Guide to Notre Dame. South Elliott Enterprises at 233-3769
Bend."' One Dollar. Available at Need: Student tix for Navy. Call after 6pm.
Pandora's or write P.O. Box 206, Kathy 7995 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 Sanyo Doby cassette player, New. 
287·2088
LOST AND FOUND 

Pregnant and didn't mean to be? Call Birthright 288-7640 NAVAHO INDIAN GIRL PRINT. 
JO GAL. AQUARIUM COM· PLETE, FISH INCLUDED. Great

10" x 12" in green and brown 
Quality stereo equipment • 30·60 deal . Also, free darling kittens.
frame. Stolen last week from percent off . factory direct • 
Legal Aid Office in Law School. 
Call 233-2782 after 5 pm

guaranteed to beat any price in Sentimental value to owner. 
town! Golden Dome Record and 3 student Navy and Geo. Tech. tixPlease return to Law School, or 

Music Co. 809 Flanner phone 1488 
for sale. Call 7471 call 7015 if you have seen it. 

"TYPING 35 cents a page call Dan 

Keys lost between dining hall
Lost: Keystone Everflash Camera 272-5549" and band practice field.
with sentimental film inside. Lost Black Key Chain Call 3150 at Stepan fields near Juniper on Will do typing, experienced. term 
Oct. 24. Please call 3434 
FOR RENT papers. manuscripts, etc. Call 233· 
8512 Attention married students.
Found: Sterling Silver Cross pen Furnisthe house 2 miles from N.D.
with initials engraved 289-8197 
Garage Sale: Sat. and Sun. 9am to 6 rooms plus 1112 baths, utiIity,
6pm. 54654 28th. Street. screened proch, garage. No pets,Lost: Navy blue While Stag ski 
parka. 7802 no children. References and
Year Oft Program . Holy Cross deposit required $175 per month
Congregation and Notre Dame plus utilities. Call 232-0192 after 5Lost: copper frame glasses in the sponsor non-academic year of 
ACC vicinity or D parking lot 1264 
or weekends.
learning and service for men and 

women in Peru, Chile, Panama. For Rent: Someone to sublet
Lost: Oct 10 Man-s watch; behind Information, call Pomerleau 1309, apartment from Jan. to May. at
CCE on football fields. Brown Stella 6444, O'Leary 234-5122, 
leather strap, cracked crystal. Jameson 6273 
Crestwood . Call 232-3516 
Reward. Call Tom 1694 PERSONALS
FOR SALE NOTICES S.J.S..
Quality Stereo components at 20-40 Finally made the BIG jump.
ROYAL VALLEY SKI RESORT percent savings. RMS Audio 321 S. What took so long?? Good
BUCHANAN, MICHIGAN Main. 288-1681 12-7pm weekend ahead!
There are a few vacancies for ski patrolmen. Only 15 minutes from For Sale: 1971 Triumph TR6. REB 
Notre Dame. You must be a good Steel belled radial tires. Price Need two G.A. Georgia Tech tix.
skier. Volunteer duty times of 
Reduced. Call 272-2844 after 5pm. 

Call 7471. your choice; afternoon, week 
noghts, and weekends. Current For Sale: Furniture, chairs, M.L.P. 
N.S.P.S. preferred. Phone: 684-shelves, everything. Call 232-3516 Very happy birthday from 1452 or 695-3847 Very Reasonable friends. 
Love, J.A.R., G.B.B.• S.S.B. 

Girls wanted to improve MBA's social life. Inquire to Roger D. 
P.O. Box 723 Notre Dame, Indiana 
Jo, Nice to have you back and welcome to all of of you from F.U. Gail, Tara and Debbie. Jack 
Roger & Rick-May the goblins of today be your friends tomorrow BA & MJ 
Rumplesteltskin & Co. A drunk goul is no fool until he's been spooked. Happy Halloween 
Dear Scarlett, 
Have Squeak 
Will Squawk! 
Squeaky and the Gang 

To the Best Butt in 9-C .. Happy Birthday Frank. 
K, M, S, R, D. 

Tirri Kruxel has the best body in F line. Guess who. 
Mark. Happy belated Birthday, Happy Halloween 141 Dillon 
Trouble you for sure will 
get 
If a person named Jerri 
you've met 
She must think she's cool 
But, alas, she's a fool 
To ignore her would be your 
best bet 
318 Lyons, Please dress appropriately for' tonites festivities. Happy Halloween & Greetings from the Spirit World ... Guess who? 
Dear Big J, S & L if John Carroll loses!! I'm awfully hungry. Good luck and be tough. Love and XXXX Big K. 
Nimo's antennae service. Call Steve at 3112 tor ~4 hour service. 
Seniors: Get your fix for "The Last Hurrah" Armory party (Nov. 
8) Starting Monday. 


ND icers open at Michigan State 
by Ernie Torriero imes and while posting one assist. Hamilton and Alex Pirus on the "If those two (Colp and Ross) wings. The trio accounted for 140 The 1975-76 edition of Notre Dame 
remain healthy all year," said points last season with Walsh hockey will be unveiled tonight as 
Smith, "they are indeed going to be pacing the Irish in scoring, with 24 the Irish travel to Est Lansing to 
tough to contend with." goals and 34 assists in 1974-75. face the Michigan State Spartans 
~f there is a weakness in the Paul Clarke and Jack Brown-in Halloween party that is 
Michigan State squad it is at goal, schidle decided to forego a chance guaranteed to bring out the dor­
where Dave Versical is replacing to compete in the Olympics after mant spirits in both teams. the graduated Ron Clark. Versical spending last spring on the U.S. Indeed, if the Irish are to prove i~ off to a shaky s_tart, . having National team. competitive in the WCHA, that 
given up 15 goals m two games. "That line should be a real good course must begin at MSU. For the Back-up goalie Greg Maas, the one," ..Smith said of the Walsh Spartans are a league powerhouse 
only Spartan netminder with prior line. "With Brownschidle and and along with Michigan, varsity experience, played the Clarke back there it's likehaving Michigan Tech and Minnesota, entire game at goal in the Ohio two additional forwards." MSU figures to vie strongly for the State tie. Sophomores Len Moher and national title. Meanwhile, the Irish are trying John Peterson will again split the 
"Yes, we have our work cut out torebound from their seventh place goal tending. The diminutive for us," admitted Notre Dme finish a year ago. Statistically, the Moher will probably get the coach Charles "Lefty" Smith. 1974-75 season was the worst year starting nod tonight with Peterson ''The Spartans should rate first or in the modern era of Irish hockey. in goal Saturday night. second in the League before this But with that record came a Since hockey was resurrected thing is all over." rebuilding program which should back in 1968-69, the Irish have only 
If you're looking for a scoring provide the nucleus for a fine managed one win and one tie at machine. then search no farther t­upcoming season. East Lansing. The last time Notre han Est Lansing. l''or the Spartans Brian Walsh will center Notre D-Dame faced the Spartans, MSU production lines are very good at me's premier line with Clark came away with a 7-0 and 7-3 piling up the pucks in the op­positions' net Already in the young season, MSU is averaging 
5.3 goals per contest, tallying 16 t­imes in three games. In that span, the Spartans downed Ohio State, 4­2, tied the same Buckeyes, 6-6, and ~ 
... 

lost to the U.S. Olympic squad, 13-~ fi. 
"Of course they are a great scoring club," Smith explained. ~~,('>"They are returning 17 lettermen, 
'··' 
including six defensemen and the nation's top scorer." 
The top scorer Smith was mentioning is All-.. American center Tom Ross. Ross, last year's co-MVP in the WCHA, paced the collegiate ranks in output, ram­ming home 38 goals while tallying 59 assists. In three games this season.thesenior center has posted totals of three goals and three assists. 
The Spartans possess an equally potent center in Steve Colo. Before he fractured his leg · midway through last season, Colp had already scored 14 goals with 35 assists. Two years ago, Colp dominated the nation in scoring as a sophomore, piling up 9'i points in Sophomore goalie Len Moher will be In the net~ tonight when the NO 
all. So far this season, Colp has 
hockey te5m opens •galnst Michiaen St•te.
beaten the opposing goalie six t­
~~~~....... 
fNext to Giuseppe'stLyons wins womens IE t Constant Dancing . t 
by Ellet>n O'Grady unable to score before the half. t at the t lnthesecondhalfLy.onsCaptain & KICK OFF CLUBf 
Lyons hall won the Women's lnt­Sharon Lopez dommated the ' erhall football championship game, gaining the most tackles for t 7 1 3 E. LaSaIIe f 
Thursday, upsetting Walsh 6-0' T­the team and adding up the most l his is the first time in four years short yardage gains. Jill DeLucia t Tues., Wed., ' Walsh has lost the title. quarterbacked for Lyons in the l . l 
In a strong defensive battle, both second half, connecting on mostof ' FrI. & Sat. ' teams held each other scoreless her short passes. l S 2 t ending the regular game o-o. The Walsh offense was sparked ' -am 
Offensively, Walsh dominated again by Thorton and BJJrke. fBeer Wine & Food t most of the first half. Tight end Thorton ran 20 yards on a hand off l ' l Pat Burke set up their first drive from Eisele. Burke gained 15 ' D · ' 
gaining 25 yards on a short pass yardsonanothershortpass. Right l ISCoteque f from quarterback Anne Eisele. linebacker Marcia Gramelspacher ' Halfback Becky Thornton ac­leled the Wlash defemse, making t LARGEST DANCE t counted for most of Walsh's run­many of the key tackles. , FLOOR IN TOWN ,
ning attack, consistently gaining After the 0-0 tie, the game was ' ___-----' short yardage. Eisele, playing forced into overtime. Plaqued by defensive safety intercepted a penalities, the teams played three Lyons pass on a tremendous catch, rounds of overtime before Lyons but Walsh was unable to capitalize finally scored and won. on it. In te second half of the third 
Just before the endof the half round, quarterback Jill DeLucia Lyons safety Terry EWelsh in­scored down the middle on a quart­tercepted a pass, but Lyons was erback sneek winning the game for 
Lyons. 

j~, 
GET~~.
VILL,6~GE PUMP 
DRINKING HOUSE 
~0 
'MELLOW' 
.___,_ ·rv-,

=-=-~-t Premium 
' 

Draft Beer :f,a.v-fL 
.v 1"~.;,._.1-ll~ -/

$1.25 Pitcher ---..{;' . 
~-= "~)~ //J(With This Coupon) ~;?'p:l'.'~~~.;' y' 
_·-/·-'

107 S. MAIN ST. MISHAWAKA The pizza the 
sweep here at Notre Dame. services of Kevin Nugent and Don 
"The new ice facility (the Munn Fairholm, both lost indefinitely to Ice Arena which opened last year.) injuries. Freshman Kevin makes it easier for us to play up Nagurski will replace Nugent at there,". Smith said. "The old arena his wing _spot and junior Ray mad.e_ It very tough on the op-Johnson will step into Fairholm 's postilion. The puck used to come center slot on the second line. off the boards at weird angles and Both games will be broadcast the crowd was right on top of the back to Notre Dame via the ser­ac.~ion_.". . vices. fo WSND with John Vasso 
~his IS a great nvalry," Smith headmg up the play-by-play team. co!ltmued. "This series always Pete Weber will be at the mike for brmgs out the best in both clubs." WNDU.radio. Face-off both nights 
Notre Damewill be without the. will be at 7:30P.M. EST. 
ITh~-J~~io~-a;~-F;r~~Tl 

: 'FANTASIA' t t 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7
t

f at the INDIANA CLUB f Music by PARAGON out of Chicago f Tickets on sale in 
f Student Union Ticket Office t t $6 per couple f :Dinner discounts available at the : , Ice House and the Down Under , ' Resturants. ' 
~----------------~ 



IF'AT WAIIIIIIY II S 
HAPPY HOUR DAILY 4 -7 Free cheese and crackers 
Monday -Football Night 
GIANT 7' SCREEN 
Tuesday -Free Movies 9:00 
Wednesday -Ladies' Night 
...


(complete disco format) 
SATURDAY FOOTBALL SPECIA 
open at 9:00 a.m. 
Large Sausage Pizza $2.88 
carry out 277-0570 
2046 South Bend Avenue 
The only authentic Italian Deep Dish Pizza. 
watch our ads all this week for an event that you won't believe 
(Save our valuable coupons.) 


277-1221 or 277-1222 for r --,. ~r 
t 
~·
fTee l _I ~: -~ l \ '
_ 
...

world awaited! ..:­
,GOOD THRU NOV 2nd) 
ANYWHERE ON CAMPUS 
~--:-:::-------------­
12 the observer 
by Fred Herbst 
In the recent past, Notre Dame has been virtually assured of three victories a year just by playing the service academies. But things are changing. Army is no longer on the schedule, Air Force came within a few minutes of defeating the Irish and the Navy brings a 5-2 record, its best start since 1967, into tomorrow's match. 
Perennial patsy Navy is no longer getting destroyed game after game. Under the direction of Coach George Welsh the Middies have surprised everyone but themselves. Not only is Navy winning, but they're winning convincingly.
"Anyone who has seen Navy knows that it's a talented, aggressive and spirited team. I look for a fine game Saturday," Head Coach Dan Devine said. 
The Irish will have to bounce back from last week's disap­pointing lass to Southern Cal to face the rugged Navy squad. "Last week everyone was talking about Southern Cal's offense, but most people failed to realize that they led their conference in total defense," Devine said. "And for the season they had held op­peonents to only 113 yards per game, and only a little more than a touchdown per game. Navy is even slightly better in these categories."
The Middie defense is currently ranked third in the nation in total defense and is coming off a shutout effort against Pittsburgh. Navy has only allowed five touchdowns this season, two of those coming after the offense turned over the ball inside their 15. 
Chet Moeller, last week's ECAC player of the week and AP defensive lineman of the week, leads the defense from his 

·Bill Brink 

Friday, October 31, 1975 
. r~ 1:%. ~fj·· ,,. 
.. : h 

Running back Bob Jackson and linebacker Andy Bushak have helped 
the Middies to their best season since the early 1960s. 
roverback position. Moeller is among the team leaders in both tackles and interceptions, and is making a strong bid for All­American consideration. 
Safety Gene Ford and cor­nerback Ed Jeter lead the secondary, which only gives up 69 yards passing a game, that gives Navy the lOth best pass defense in the nation. 
Giving up 115 yards rushing a game, the Middies are the ninth ranked rushing defense in the country. Tackle Dave Papak, linebacker Andy Bushak and middle guard Jeff Sapp lead the team in tackles. 
The Navy defense is also the eighth ranked scoring defense. They are ranked first in all categories in the East. 
Navy is primarily a running team offensively. Running backs Gerry Goodwin and Bob Jackson are each averaging over four yards a carry. 
"The thing that has impressed us most is the versitility of their running game. Goodwin and Jackson are as good as any run­ning backs they've had in a long time," Devine said. 
In their victory over Pitt last week, quarterback John Kurowski threw only twice and failed to complete either pass. When Kuroski decides to throw, his favorite targets are tight end Kevin Sullivan and wide receiver Mike Galpin. Navy has only thrown 96 passes, completing 45. 
The Irish offense should be bolstered this week with a 


The Irish Eye 
Everything is set for the end of November. The collegiate powerhouses are established, and beginning November 22nd, things should start to get wild. 
Michigan, Nebraska and Alabama are the teams on the run. The Wolverines notched another rout last week with a 55-7 victory, and even if it was against Indiana, it was impressive. Nebraska was even more impressive, creaming a respectable Colorodo team, 63-21. And the Crimson Tide kept on rolling with a 45-0 shutout over Texas Christian. With Ohio State and Oklahoma winning, the next two Saturdays will light the fuse for the explosions that will follow. 
Here are the Irish Eye's picks for this week: 
Pt-nn State at Maryland: The Terrapins have been surprising, but Joe Paterno will have his team ready. Penn State by 10. 
Army at Air Force: The Falcons are 0-6-1-, but they have have had much tougher opponents than Army, who is 2-5. QB Mike Worden, who had such a fine day against the Irish, should direct the Falcons to their first win of the year. Air Force by 7. 
1\liami <Fla.) at Boston College: Miami has had a tough time this season with some Big Eight teams, and they have Navy, Notre Dame, and Florida coming up. They better take one while they can against the overrated Eagles. Hurricanes by 7. Dukt-at Georgia Tech: The Blue Devils are coming off a 24-16 defeat at the hands of offensive power Florida and going right into the hands of the nations top rushing team. The Ramblin Wreck shut out Tulane and is warming up for the Irish. Tech by 17. Florida at Auburn: The Gators keep on scoring, and are third in total offense. Running back Jimmy DuBuso is averaging 130 yards on the ground for them. The Tigers have made a slight comeback, and are capable of anything, but Florida should outscore them. Gators by 6. Alabama at Mississippi: State (Jackson, Miss.): No contest. Nothing can stop the Bear now, except a bowl bid. Tide by 27. Pittsburgh at Syracuse: Both teams are so in­consistent that it could go either way. Most likely one team will give it away to the other. The Orangemen may be more in the giving mood. Panthers by 3. Oklahoma at Oklahoma State:This contest is for supremecy in Oklahoma, that state of renowned legality. If they allow the same rules on the field as 
Football picks 

they do off it, this could be all-out war. The Cowboys will surrender sooner than the Sooners. Oklahoma by 10. Nebraska at Missouri: The Cornhuskers have been unstoppable the last several weeks, routing Colorodo last week. Missouri hit their high point in their first game, when they upset Alasbama. It's a hard act to follow, and the Tigers have been less than showmen. Nebraska by 20. Michigan State at Purdue: The Spartans were stunned by Illinois last week, but the only stunning thing about the Boilermakers is the Golden Girl. State by 10. Michigan at Minnesota: Bo Schembechler must be trying to make up for his teams slow start of­fensively this season. His team has scored 124 points in the last two games, while the defense has only given up 59 all year. With a rushing game that is second in the nation, they should trample the gophers into the turf. Illinois at Wisconsin: Who knows, who cares. The Illini can be good, as in last week's game against Michigan State, or bad, as in the rest of the season. Wisconsin nearly lost to Purdue, proving that anyone can come close to them. The Badger fans have switched their allegiance to hockey, and don't be surprised if Billy Marek ends up as goalie for the icers. If he is running the foorball,the Badgers should take it. Bv 6. Indiana at Ohio Sate: Archie Giffin may as well take his hundred yards when he comes out the t­tunnel from the locker room. The Hoosiers will offer little more resistence. The Buckeyes could play th­eir golf team and win. OSU by 45. USC at California: This game will be closer than it looks. The Bears lead the nation in total offense and are fifth in passing offense. Running back Chuck Muncie is running for 131 yards per game. The Trojans strong point is their defense however, and there's no way California can stop Ricky Bell. It should be high scoring, but Bell is the difference. lJSC by 6. Upset of the Week: Navy over Notre Dame. The Irish have a long way to go after playing their hearts out and losing to USC. They're running into just the wrong sort of team, a defensive one. If they continue their mistakes and offensive impotence, 
they will lose their third straight home game for the first time since 1960. It seems incredible, a service academy beating Notre Dame, but it could happen tomorrow. 
Last week, 12-3 for .800 percent. Season 78-23 for .772 peercent. 
healthier Jerome Heavens, who suffered a sprained knee two weeks ago, and the probable return of freshman Jim Browner, starting fullback until his injury three weeks ago. Wide reciever Ted Burgmeier should also be ready to play tomorrow. Joe Montana is the probable starter at quarterback. 
Tom Parise has been moved up to the varsity as a second team 


and Tom Desmond 
The Notre Dame cross country team travels to University Park, Pennsylvania on Saturday to compete in the Central Collegiate championships. The meet is scheduled to begin at 10 a.m. and will be run over a hilly, five mile course, the same one that will be used for the NCAA finals later in November. 
Many Eastern and Midwest schools will be represented, in­cluding the host Penn State Nit­tany Lions. Defending champs, Eastern Michigan will be in the field, which will also include powersKent State, Bowling Green, Michigan and Toledo. 
The Irish harriers are hoping to improve on last year's fifth place finish. Coach Joe Piane explains, "If we run as well as we are capable of running, we will be right in there. This is an important meet psychologically, because the NCAA districts are coming up soon." 
Making the trip will be captain Jim Hurt, Joe Yates, Steve Welch, Jim Reinhart, Dennis Van­derkraats, Jay Mranda and Dan Horgan. Welch, a freshman out of Hannibal, Missouri, has taken 
over the number one spot for tight end. The move wa necessitated when Doug But underwent surgery this past wee for ligament damage in his knee. Buth 's injury is the first season ending injury for the Irish. 
Injuries have also caused a change in personnel on defense. Linebackers Jim Stock and Doug Becker are both nursing ankle sprains. Becker is definitely out of tomorrow's game while Stock will dress but is not expected to play. Second team linebacker Steve Heimkrieter will miss the game also. Consequently, John Dubenetzky has been moved from safety to linebacker where he will start with Pete Johnson. Tony Novakov can also be expected to see action. 
Tomorrow's game will be the 49th meeting between the two teams, this being college football's longest continuous intersectional rivalry. The Irish lead the series 38-9-1 and have won the last 11 games. Navy's last win over Notre Dame came in 1963 when Roger Staubach led the Middies to a 35-14 triumph. 
Should the Irish lose tomorrow's 
game to the rapidly improving 
Middies, it would be the first time 
since 1960 that Notre Dame has lost 
three consecutive home games and 
the first time since 1961 that Navy 
has won at Notre Dame. 
The game will be carried live on WNDU-TV, channel 16, and on the Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Net­work. Kickoff is set for 1:30. 

Notre Dame with his strong per­formances tin recent weeks. Hurt has been nursing a sore hip ever since early October' although his condition has steadily improved. 
In last week's Indiana Int· 
ercollegiate's at Purdue, Welch placed eighth out of 112 runners as Notre Dame finished fourth in the Big State Meet behind Indiana, Ball State, and Purdue. Other finishers included Yates, 14th; Vanderkraats, 17th; Rinhart, 19th; Hurt, 20th; 
Miranda, 37th; anbd Horgan in 
60th place. 

Pep rally set at Stepan tonight 
The Notre Dame battle of Na.vy begins friday night, 7 p.m., at Stephan Center. The speakers of this Irish psyche session in­clude: Defensive Line Coach Joe Yonto, Offensive Line Coach Brian Boulac, cornerback Tom Lopienski and halfback Mark McLane. Help fire up the Irish for their gridiron battle. 
The Band will step of{ at 6:40 from Washington Hall and request all bikes be removed from their path . 







