--------------------------------------------------------~ 
~----------------------------­

OD The Inside 
SMC calendar 
... page 2 
Stepan Athletics 
..•. page 7 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Monday, February 11, 1975Vol. IX, No. 82 
Alternate plans available 


Grad complex plans indefinite 
by Katie Kerwin poration to build the complex and assure Gordon argued, "is that while residen­and the donor of a lifetime income. He refused tiality is a very important facet in un­Pat Hanifin to elaborate on this or mention other dergraduate life as the COUP report points The University has no definite financial, out, it is not that essential to graduate
proposals. "Nothing is definite now," he 
architectural or siting plans for the students." He pointed out that only 300 of
said, "and I am not free to comment."
proposed graduate student housing the 1800 graduate students presently live
In any event, the ccomplex will probably 
complex scheduled for completion in on campus.
not be a dormitory but will includeSeptember of 1976. However Dr. Robert apartments of various sizes and will allow Fordon explained that in 1972-73 the(iordon, University vice president for for later additions. "I would not like to see University was in the initial planningadvanced studies, stated yesterday that a residence hall," declared Wilson. stages for building such a complex with"we have about six alternatives in case the Gordon considered a dormitory form too money from the departments of Health,complex is not completed on schedule," "limiting" and prefers an "open-ended" Education and Welfare and Housing andthough he declined to say what they were. 
apartment complex that could be ex­Urban Development "We qualifiedFr. Jerome Wilson, University vice panded in the future as needed. "By under a federal program for low-incomepresident for business affairs, explained 'complex' we mean mixed apart­housing because graduate students are sothat plans would be more definite by June ments with maybe one, two and three poor," Gordon explained, "but then 
I. He said that Ellerbe Architects, and bedrooms with kitchenettes as well as President Nixon dropped the programarchitectural firm that is on retainer to the general social rooms and laundry from his budget and we had to drop ourUniversity, has been contacted about the 
facilities." plans."
complex. "We are also investigating what Two sites are being investigated now,
other schools have done and what has He said that at that time the University 
Gordon said, one to the east of campus in
worked for them," Wilson said. was thinking in terms of one to three 
the wooded area beyond Cartier field, and 
"The financial situaiton is still up in the "I am sure we can find them housing; bedroom apartments which could be 
second near University Village. 
air and the cost is guesswork at this we have about six other possibilities for on­"stacked up one after another as needed," point." Gordon commented. He stressed Gordon is confident that the complex campus housing which were discussed at a cost then of about $17,000 per unit. "Of that the University is looking for "good will be ready for occupancy by September before we deicded on this plan and we course if we were to re-adopt that plan low-rent housing within the graduate 1976 but even if it is delayed he insisted could back to one of those if the grad now the cost would be somewhat in­students' budget. "We are exploring a that the current residents of Lewis Hall complex is delayed," Gordon explained. creased," he said. 
great variety of different funding would not be forced off campus. "The However he refused to say what these At a meeting of the Advanced Studies 
possibilities." Provost and other University officers have alternatives were, though he suggested Council last Friday the Graduate Students 
One such possibility according to Gordon, committed the University to provide that people need not worry about major Union decided to conduct a survey of if the University finds a generous donor, housing for the Lewis women and we have hall switches. graduate student preferences regardmg would be the creation of a special cor-no intention of throwing them off," he said. "One point that needs to be stressed," room types. 
Wacky Winter Weekend' carnival slated 
by Kathy Mills Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Social Commission will hold a winter carnival, en­titled "Wacky Winter Weekend," February 21-22 with games and contests designed for the snowy season. 
The weekend's events will commence at noon on "Good Friday" with the placing of blocks of ice filled with money in front of all the dining halls at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
"It's up to the students to decide how to get the money out," said Kathy Smouse, one of the chairmen of the carnival. Later in the afternoon, the Pre-Med Society and the Social Commission will co­sponsor a Happy Hour at Kubiak's, from 4 to 6 p.m. 
All of Friday evening's activities will take place at St. Mary's, starting at 7 p.m. with ice skating and a bonfire at Lake Marion. The sophomore class at St. Mary's will present a "goofy" talent show at 8 p.m. 
There will be a dance, featuring the Chicago band, One Way in Regina Hall at 9 p.m. A nominal admission fee will be charged, soft drinks and refreshments will be available, and a possible "bump" contest may be held. 
The final event on Friday will be the drawing of the winning raffle ticket for a one week bus trip to Daytona Beach, Florida, during spring break. The trip includes a beer party on the way to Florida, accomodations at a beachfront hotel, a cookout, a beach party, and an excursion to Disney World. The options of the trip are payment for one person with spending money, or payment for two persons. 
Raffle tickets, priced at $1, will go on sale at dinner in the dining halls beginning Friday, Feb. 14. They will continue to be sold through next week during lunch and dinner, as well as at the Student Union Ticket Office in LaFortune. Greg Collins and Tom Parise will draw the winning ticket. 
Chairman Patti Romano emphasized the fact that Friday night. In addition, the Social Commission will "Even if the weather is not obliging, most of the "no parking'' spaces will be available at St. Mary's on run hayrides to bring students back and forth between events will still go on," stated Smouse. St. Mary's and Notre Dame. Romano urged that 
She added that the reason for the carnival is the hiil 

everyone use the latter means of transportation. 
between Mardi Gras and An Tostal. "We need 

The activities on "Sinful Saturday" will be all in the something for people to get involved in. We would like area around Holy Cross Hall <Notre Dame) and St. to see the winter carnival be expanded and become an Mary's Lake. The contests include home-made annual event like An Tostal," Smouse said. toboggan races, snowshoe races, a tug-of-war, a snow Anyone interested in making a snow sculpture should football game between Dillon and Holy Cross, a contact his hall social commissioner or Kathy Smouse snowball toss through tires, and general relay races. at 6729. Those who have questions about the raffle Also listed in the events are a hockey game between should also call Smouse. the girl's team and an interhall team, with the boys Inquities about Friday's activities should be directed using brooms, and tricycle races in which the boys ride at Mary Beth Leslie or Mary Beth Klug at 4132 or John and the girls push. In addition, students can pay 25 Rooney at 3471. cents to wreck a demolition car witha sledgehammer. Anyone having questions about Saturday's events 
Hot dogs will be sold at 25 cents each and free hot should call Rich Cartilidge at 8544 or Carol Miskell at chocolate will be available. There will be skating and 6733. General questions about the carnival will be music through the day. answered by Patti Romano at 6729. 
The carnival's final event will be the judging of hall The Social Commission will put booklets containing snow sculptures. to be constructed during the week. all the information about ·~wacky Winter Weekend" in All activities will be finished by 5 p.m. on Saturday. all mailboxes on Wednesday. 
JOHN FITZPATRICK and Mike Armstrong were just two of the student performers who played Saturday 
Conference: Separation of Powers 
night attheJimWard Benefit Concert. The proceeds of the concert are to go to the family of Ward. Ward, a pre­med major from Beaver, Pennsylvania, died January 11 in Florida while on tour with the St. Mary's 
...see page 5 

Collegiate Choir. (Photo by Andy Waterhouse) 









the observer Monday, February 17, 1975
2 
warld briefs 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador <UPil --World coffee producers, winding up a three-day meeting, said Sunday they wo~:~ld w!t~hold about 17.5 million bags of coffee from global markets mdef1mtely, until coffee prices increase. 
HONOLULU ( UPI l --Terminally ill Heidi Biggs, 14, realizing her dream of a last trip to Hawaii, Sunday learned the true meaning of ··Aloha'' as scores of islanders offered gifts to the girl from Illinois­-everything from home~ooked meals to horseback rides. 
WASHINGTON <UPil --Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey, D-Minn., chairman of Congress' Joint Economic Committee, said Sunday the nation may face a depression later this year unless strong t•conomic measures are taken wit!".in 60 to 90 days. 
SEOUL ( UPI) --South Korea released 69 more political prisoners Sunday. brinlng the two-day total of those freed under a general dt•ml'ncy issued by President Park Chung-Hee to 125, justice of­ficials said. 
\IAilH ID ( UPI l --The newspaper Ya. a voice of Spain's powerful !\oman Catholic Church. Sunday welcomed the reduction of prison ~l'ntt•m·es for 10 leftwing activists as a move that might reduce ~rowing political tension. 

an campus taday 
4:30 p.m. lecture, "chemistry of drugs and narcotics" by robert boese, 123 nieuland science hall. 
4:30p.m. lecture "evolution & strategy of the hormones", by dr. gordon tomkins, galvin life center auditorium. 
7p.m. touch dancing, with fran demarko, Iafortune ballroom. 
7:30 p.m. lecture, introduction to transendental meditation, room 249 madeieva. 
8:00p.m. lecture, "separation of power In the wake of watergate: a view from the founders perspective", guest speaker martin diamond, lib. aud. 
8 p.m. lecture, "contemporary morality as the graveyard of past moral philosophy" by alasdair macintyre, new biology aud. 
8:10p.m. basketball, st. joe (indiana) vs. notre dame. 
London and Paris 



History Dept. sponsors tour 
countryside surrounding Paris and 
London. The price of the trip 
without llniversity credit is 
$1\60.00. subject to changes in air 
fares and exchange rates. Covered 
in the fare are all air tran­sportation. airport transfers, lodgings. continental breakfast 1•ach morning, city tours by land and water. and admission to a number of historical landmarks. 
Interested parties should contact the History Department at the l'niversity of Notre Dame. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester excep1 vacations by the stuoents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

A two-week tour of London and 
Paris carrying university credit 
will be sponsored next summer by 
the History Department of the 
l'niversity of Notre Dame. Under 
the direction of Dr. Carole Moore 
the group will spend ap­
proximately a week in each city 
and its environs. 
l'p to six hours of credit may be 
l'arnt>d by qualified participants. 
!'receding departure. a slide 
t ourse on the history ofLondonand 
Paris will be offered by Professor 
l.Pon Ikrnard. on the historic and 
artistic significance of the places 
to bt> dstil'd by the tour-members. 
Each course will carry one 
lTt•dit-hour and may be taken on a 
f(raduate. undergraduate, or audit 
basis. Additional credits may be 
t·arned by the preparation of a 
rPst>arch paper on any one of a 
num hPr of sites to be visited on the 
tour. Thl' tour may also be taken 
11 1thout lTPdit by those who care to· 
do so. 
Ih·partun· will hP by jet from 
Millions of birds 
killed in Kentucky 
1'.\lll'<'AII. K~·. niPil --The 
(·,t 1 of l'aducah stole a march on 
th•: \rmv over the weekend and 
spra~ I'd ·an Pstimated 1.5 million 
dis••ase-earrying blackbirds with a 
bird-killing dPtPrgent which left 
th•·m lying m piles by the 
tho11sands. 
Ft. Campbell and Christian 
<'ounty. 1\0 miles southeast of here, 
received another weekend delay in 
their bird-€radication plans when 
the Defense CDepartment ruled an 
t>nvironmental study must be 
made first. 
But the city sprayed an area 
northwest of here Saturday night 
and before dawn Sunday some 
sprayed birds benumbed by the 
eold dropped from their roosts and 
skittered along the ground. Later 
the birds huddled together for 
warmth and some hours later 
began dying by the thousands. 
"We had this opportunity and the 
wt>ather was just right," said 
project spokesman Gene Rouff, 
Paducah director of public ser­
vices Chicago on 23 July. returning on 6 August. Among the sites to be 1·isited are Westminster Abbey, the Houses of Parliament, Windsor Castle. Buckingham Palace. the Louvre. Vt>rsailles, the Invalides, Notre Dame. the Marai, and many others. Bus tours of both cities as wl'll as boat trips on the Seine and Thames will be included in the travel package. 
Professor Moore received her Ph.D. in 1973 from the University of Califormia at Santa Barbara. llcr area of specialization is the history of l\1t>dieval England and Europe. She also teaches courses in womt>n's history. At Notre llamP. she has been involved in the many aspects of co-€ducation, including a position as coach for the women's Tennis Team. 
Timt> will be set aside for in­dividual optional visits into the 
MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES 
* 2 FILMS 
* 
BOOKSTORE 

* 
LIVE FLOOR SHOW 


1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET CALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION 
SMC to reach a decision concerning new calendar 
by Mary Janca 
St. Mary's Editor 
St. Mary's will reach a decision concerning next year's academic calendar following the final release of Notre Dame's calendar, stated Acting Vice/ President for Academic Affairs, Sr. Francesca Kennedy. 
She noted that the calendars for the two schools will probably be the same. 
Based on a departmental poll conducted earlier this year, most members of the college favored a post-Labor Day start and a first semester vacation at Thanksgiving, she said. 
''In principle, the break ought to be at Thanksgiving--it's an important family holiday .Whereas in October, so many students went home to nothing.~:, Their parents were at work , and their friends and younger brothers and 
•""' .
......--..._..~.. 

sisters were in school," she commented. 
According to Francesca, the administration polled 19 academic departmentson the type of calendar they would prefer. Of the 19, fifteen departments responded, while individuals from other department also replied. 
Seven of the fifteen departments responding favored a post Labor Day start. ''Five did not mention the start of the school year because they were concerned with Thanksgiving break," she stated. 
Eleven out of the fifteen preferred an extended Thanksgiving break. Two favored a break in October. One depart­ment proposed an extended weekend instead of an October break. and failed to note its views 

concerning  an  extended  
Thanksgiving  break,  Kennedy  
noted.  

The vice president commented that when final calendar plans are released. she would favor a joint statement between Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
"If we (ND and SMCl have the same days off and on, the co­t•xchange of classes is made so much t>asier." she said. 
"The ride aspect is also an important reason for keeping the same calendar." she stated. 
MONDAY NIGHT SPECIAL 




CHICKEN! 

ALL YOU CAN EAT FOR $2.00 
5:00 · 9:00 p.m. 


Monday, February 17, 1975 the observer 
Office in LaFortune basement 
Minority_/StudentsCounselingCenter to open 
by Janet Carney Starr Reporter 
Due to the individual efforts of Notre Dame graduate student Craig Adams, the Minority Students Counseling Center will once more be opened and in full operation by the end of the week. 
The office is located in the basement of LaFortune, but has been closed since last year due to combined lack of interest and awareness of the existence of this service by the students of Notre Dame. 
Adams feels the need is apparent for a counseling service for minority students which is separate from the established ND Counseling Center. The reason for this is that black students just are not making use of the established 
For 75-76 calendar 


SMC programs announced 
by Megan Wolff Staff Reporter 
The Royal Shakespeare Com­pany in Repertory of Stratford­upon-Avon, on tour for the first time in three years, will be coming to Saint Mary's next year as part of the Performing Arts Series. 
The troupe is scheduled fora one­night performance on November 5 in O'Laughlin Hall. Whether the company will hold workshops or lecture demonstrations in addition to the performance is as yet un­certain. 
Mary Gerber, Director of Programming at Saint Mary's, 
•
Regina president res1gns post 
by Kathy Mills 
staff reporter 
Due to "too much work and not enough cooperation" Nancy Nickoloff resigned from her position as Regina Hall President February 3, with two months left in her term. 
''I had to do everything myself and I just do not want to do it anymore," she declared. 
Nickoloff explained that one of her biggest problems was the failure of student government to hold an election for a vice­president of Regina North who would have worked with herself and the vice-president of Regina South, the secretary, and the treasurer. 
Since no election was held and 
Nickoloff could not appoint a vice­
president, she asked Kathy 
Waltner to be acting vice­
president. However, in this 
capacity, Waltner could not take 
the full responsibilities of vice­
president.
Nickoloff also said that the vice­
president of Regina South, Fay 
Maloof, did not work efficiently. 
"I would have stayed the whole 
IN CONCERT 
SEALS & CROFTS 
SUN. MARCH 2 7:30 P,M. NOTRE DAME ~~~~~~IC AND CONVOCATION 
TICKET PRICES: ALL CHAIR TYPE SEA $fi.IIO BLEACHERS $5.00 
Tickets now on sale: NOTRE DAME, 
A.C.C. BOX OFFICE 
Mon.-Sat. 9 to 5 
UNION TICKET OFFICE 
Robertson's South Bend & Concord Mall St. Joseph Bank and branches First Bank main office only Elkart Truth 
center, according to Adams. The percentage of blacks who have displayed interest in the Notre Dame Counseling Center are, as Adams put it, "knee high to nil." 
"Minority students just do not feel comfortable in an organization which is set up and run by whites and is essentially white-oriented. But as long as black students are failing in academic work and complaining of their social situation at Notre Dame, there is a need for counseling," he noted. 
Adams graduated form Notre Dame with a psychology degree and is presently working for his doctorate as a counseling trainee at the Notre Dame Counseling Cneter. As the only black working for this organization, he is acutely aware of the special problems faced by the black individual at 
stated: "I was going to book them for one night, but if they would like to <or could) stay longer, I'd be glad to have them." In the past, one-night performances have been customary of the troupe. 
Admission will be covered by the St. Mary's activity fee for St. Mary's students. Other ticket prices will be kept at a minimal charge. 
Also planned next year is a tri­part cooperative effort on the part of St. Mary's, I.U. and Notre Dame to hold two residencies by the First Chamber Dance Company On November) and by the Claude 
term if I had had a full cabinet," she added. 
The day after Nickoloff's resignation, the Regina hall council decided that Waltner, although not elected, was a legitimate vice-president. The hall council then held an election for a new president between the vice­presidents of North and South. 
Waltner won that election and will serve the next two months as Regina Hall President. There will be an election tomorrow for a new vice-president of Regina North. 
Nickoloff admitted that she had thought about resigning at the end of last semester. However, when a petition stating that she was not working well and requesting her resignation was circulated, Nickoloff decided that she had to "stay and fight the false ac­cusations." 
"I thought about it again over Christmas," she continued. "The topper was when I had to do everything for our formal last month and when very few helped with Mardi Gras." 
"No one cared enough to par­
ticipate," she concluded. 

fuller program to accommodate these needs. 
In the past, these problems had been handled through a program involving para-professionals, set up by Cassel Lawson, a former Notre Dame student. 
Lawson originated the Minority Counseling Service five years ago, when the black population at Notre Dame was a highly charged and basically segregationist com­munity, according to Adams. 
"Since then," Adams said, "a different type of black population has emerged. There is a general disinterest in counseling as such. .. The complaints are the same ­but the action is lacking." 
So Adams has created a program of his own, with an en­tirely new thrust to accommodate the changed position of the minority population at ND. 
Kipnis Mime Theater (in February). The companies will hold workshops for students and give lecture demonstrations. 
This effort will not be included in the St. Mary's activity fee. The three schools are applying for funding from the National En­dowment of the arts. 
The Preservation Jazz Band will be on campus to help celebrate the nations's bicentennial. Also planned is a Woman's Series which will bring to St. Mary's four talented women to perform in honor of "The Year of the Woman." 
The counseling itself will be too, can get into Notre Dame if thy concerned with educational, wish", Adams said. personal, and vocational Finally, Adams hopes that Notre problems, "But most important," Dame minority students will Adams added, "it's a place where volunteer to work on a program people can just come to talk about which would involve sharing skills, anything they want." projects, and general experiences 
However, the main thrust and with minority children of South key concern of the Minority Bend at the grade school-junior Counseling Center is a program high level. organized by Adams to give the , · "What theyoungkids need most minority students at notre Dame a ' are models,'' Adams remarked, chance to become involved with He hopes for a strong response to the black community outside of such an idea. Notre Dame, especially in The office hours for the Minority downtown South Bend. Counseling Center are from 3:30 to 
This program consists of three 4:30 on Thursdays and 1:00 to 2:00 central plans. The first will involve Fridays. minority students "who feel the Adams urges any student in­lack of communicaion among terested in participating in any of themselves -a need to discover the the three programs to contact him reasons for this gap with others," at his office (ph. 1717) or at the Adams explained. Minority Counseling Center. Those 
Adams plans on organizing a interested in joining a group series of group discussions to in-discussion should contact him by elude any student interested in Feb. 21, and those wishing to work working out these problems with on the recruitment program should people in the same situation. call by Feb. 28th. 
The second aspect of the Adams sees the most important program involves what Adams aspect of this counseling program terms "a massive minority student as "personal involvement." As for recruitment program." exactly who should make use of the 
This will involve interested Minority Counseling Center, students who would go to the high Adams replied "Anyone who wants schools in downtown South Bend to be a minority long enough to and speak with the students there come in is welcome. The door is "and show these kids that they, open to everyone," he said. 
WED. FEB. 19th 
Thru 
,SUN. FEB. 23rd. 
NOTRE DAME Athletic and Convocation Center 





U;fAPADIS
·.· •·· PRICES· .,.TICKETS ON SALE; PERFORMANCES $l 00-$4 OO-$S OO NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
WED. (Mc~nakl's Night-• ' • BOX OFFICE 
(chedt at Mc~nakl's for ilfo.) All Seats Resened MON.-SAT. 9 to 5 THURS. 8:00 P.M. 
FRI. 8:00 P.M. ·~ prier tickets for Notre Dame ­SAT. 12:00·4:00-8:00 P.M. St. Mary's students on these SUN. 2:00 and 6:00P.M. performances: Thursday 8 pm,
Saturday 12 noon, Sunday 6 pm. 

Lewis: Rooms With Views 
Jlt'ar Editor: 
Having read in Wednesday's issue of the Obst>t'Vt>r an entire page of letters to the editor from distraught residents of Lewis Hall, I wondered about their overall presentations. 
The letters were full of in­dignation ... but their authors were not vocal in the past years when other halls were transferred to new residents. If their real concern is one of principle, now should not have been the first time that we have heard from them. 
In effect. the persons writing are simply urging that a reversal of decision be made, thus passing the distress on to some other group of students instead of themselves. <As an aside, it might be recalled that no other group of students who have had their hall transferred has had attached to that transfer a statement concerning a plan to build for them an on-campus housing complex. l I may be rash judging, but I suspect that if the reversal being urged were to come about. these writers would once again become silent about such matters. 
The overriding issue in the 
letters is one of self-interest. Self­
interest is valid, but it should be 
presented honestly and as such. 
s· 
1 
' · · '  ·  •  
Bt•ar Editm·: One of the most justices surrounding  strithe  king  loss  in­of  

I ,pwis Hall to graduate women is the disregard for the rights of nuns who study at Notre Dame. 
J:o'or an institution which courts its benefactors, the decision shows little concern for theintentionof the U•wis family who built and dedicated Lewis Hall "to the Scholarship of American Nuns." 
Lewis Hall is no more a dor­mitory than Morreau, Corby, or Columba Halls. Since when have the residences of priests, brothers, and sisters been "up for grabs" for undergraduate housing? It is obvious that the problem here is a deep-seated one of anti-feminist feeling that still lingers at Notre Dame. and lingers at the top. 
How can you expect to ease the unnatural discord between men and women on the undergraduate level, when not only are graduate women alienated from the university, but the remaining nuns <whose contribution is much 

DOONESBURY 

needed here) are evicted from most money. l If this award is for illicit sexual behavior at Corb's is their home? the hall which wins the most in the imaginations: of a few im­
Since we graduate women have money, it should be so stated mature, filthy-minded, and yes, lived at Lewis Hall as the "guests" beforehand. He continued, hol'lly individuals who may have of the sisters, I feel that I must "bt•sides, you <meaning the Glee imbibed a bit too much. speak up for those whose rights are Club l have had a ship three years I must add that not all of the most violated by this decision. ~unnin~." This fabrication ~o Corby men have remarked so 
Sinct>rely. d1scred1t the Glee Clubs unjustly about the Corby gals. The Mary Bt>th Dakoskt> originality and workmanship was ones who do the labeling know who 
· Lewis Hall 
Mardi Gras Booths 
Dt>ar Editor: 
On Saturday night the Mardi 
(;ras committee announced the 
winner of the "best designed 
booth" award. Eleven committee 
members participated in the 
voting of the cash prize. Each 
member was asked to vote for no 
more than two booths. The final 
positions in the voting were listed 
up to sixth place. 
I want to make it clear from the 
beginning that I acknowledge the 
privilege of any of these committee 
members to vote for the booth 
which. in their own estimation is 
the best. However, uniform 
criteria must be established. 
~:<:Ieven different sets of criteria 
made a mockery of the award. 
When the final placement was 
announced on Saturday, I ap­proached several committee mt•mbers to inquire as to what the criteria were for choosing the winner. I was an interested party because I was the Chairman of the <aee Club booth <the Clipper Ship l. From mv conversations it is ap­
. mct>rec!s'c parent that criteria were more or <Rt>v.) WM · N · Matthews, 'less an individual thing with each 
\ss•• llector Zahm Hall ·ommittee mPmber. I was in-
ormt>d that our Clipper Ship was 
JOt considered because "it didn't fit in with the theme of the Mardi (;ras-"Gold Hush". We felt that a Clipper Ship in an 1849 California harbor W'lS certainly not out of place. considering American llistory. If the committee felt that it did not fit in with the theme, it was their right since they ran the show. However. we should have been informed of this when we submitted the design. We would have been happy to channel our l'nergies into a booth more in keeping with the committee's conception of "Gold Rush". It was the committee's obligation to tell us BEFORE we began con­struction. not AFTER the judging, that our booth did not meet their ''eriteria". 
It is interesting to note some of the other "standards" on which the booths were judged. One com­mittee member told me that how much money a booth took in was a very important consideration in his estimation. <This is despite the fact that there is a separate cash prize for the booth that takes in the 
H£~ HEY! t&T'S HAV~ NON£ OF THAT/ lfll.lfR£ f)() }(}(/ 7HINJ< YOf/AR£­PtJamJ RICO?! 
\ 

present ever since construction tht>y at·t>: Has it ever occurred in began. To set the record straight, your alcohol-polluted minds that last year we had a Dragon, and the the girl standing next to you at vear before we had a Temple. Corb's may be a virgin'? Don't be · I suggest that the Mardi Gras shocked if she is! committee examine their past practices and attempt to provide Respectfully yours, uniformity in their future A Pure Corbyette judgments by employing strict criteria applied to the selection procedure. This will, hopefully, Pliminate the hodgepodge of personal ''opinions" and self­imposed criteria which riddled the 


The Scapegoat
committee this year. 
Sinct>rt>ly. Dear Editor Jim Johnston We think an outright injustice occurs at every home basketball game. The fans, who have been
What Kind 

of Female...? 
HNII" Editot·: I am writing this open letter with the intention to clear up a misconception about the female who frequents Corby's. Whether she goes there weekly, monthly, annually -it doesn't matter, the feminine gender has been unfairly debased simply because she enters this bar. The slanderous names bestowed upon her are "slut" or "whore". It is rather unanimous that student '·'hang-outs" are ex­tremely limited around du Lac. Ever since campus parties had been abolished. it appears the other alternative for informal social activity where one can enjoy a drink and-<>r have a "good time" is at the near-by bars. Now, from my observation, the clientele that patronizes Corby's come from a wide range : graduate students, under-grads, athletes, South Bend people, SMC and ND women. The latter two are ob­viously in the midst of predominant male chauvinistic attitudes -hence, the abusive title given to her, such as "slut". How ridiculous! Webster's definition of a whore is: "a woman who engages in illicit sexual activity, especially one who ~ngages in promiscuous sexual intercourse". The purpose of this letter wasn't designated to divide the moral from the immoral -but to clarify, once and for all, exactly what that type of female is! So the Corby-girl is a slut? Such a generalization is entirely unfair, unkind, and UNTRUE!! From my point of view, the only 
Pxtolled as the greatest in the world. and no doubt are, have a tmdency to be unfair to certain individuals at times. 
I .ast year we were 26-3 and nothing could go wrong and no one could be blamed. Unfortunately this vear we are 11-7 and the fans need. a scapegoat. This scapegoat is Pt•ter Crotty. He is receiving the brunt of the blame for everything the team does wrong. If Coach I ligger Phelps. the man who outsmarted John Wooden twice, fpeJs that Peter Crotty can do the job then obviously he can. 
I 'Pier Crotty is a determined, hustling ballplayer. Pete Crotty has been booed at his entrance and cht'ered at his exit continually. We think that it is time that this l'!assll'ss boomg and constant 
,.Prbal abuse should  come  to  an  
l'nd.  
Sinct>rely,  
.John Coynt>  
.Jim Martin  
Jim Dunnt'  


_At the Opera 
llt'ar Editor: 
I hope Mary Margaret Sheeran was kidding when she suggested there was "something absolutely absurd a bout an <American) audience which sits stupidly (and) passively" through a performance of an opera in German or Italian. Lost of people who attend an opera for the right reasons read the libretto beforehand and don't need the play-by-play of an English translation to acquaint them with the plot. If you seriously ·want to appreciate the opera you have to invest yourself a little more than you do when you flick on the tube to watch "I Love Lucy." 
Craig Mortell 
Burn On, Gold Dome 
Bt•ar Edito•·: 
Your column is such a fine place for one to vent the spleen that I simply can resist the urge no longer. So. if you please, let me address my petty and self-centered words to the entire of our fine ND and SMC community. But don't take what I say too seriously. It's just more vanity. trash on top of the heap that diurnally piles onto the Letters Section of the Ohst'I'H'I'. 
While. at Notre Dame, we have on the one hand a thoughtless administration that shuffles people into their respective positions like dice in a bingo-roller, on the other hand. we have the students who can think of nothing but them­selves. The result of all this, of course. is little more than total chaos and uproar. And everyday l'Veryone must put up with all the noisome shit everyone else hands out. It amounts to nothing but self­directed vanity--a lot of fools screaming to the skies their own problems and forgetting about Pveryone else's. 
At'any rate. I simply want to add 

my  own  fury  to  the  fire,  not  
because  it  will  accomplish  
anything  nor  because  anyone  

might listen. Neither will come to pass. It simply makes me feel good to do so. And, because I'm basically self-centered and ob­viously a fool. my actions are justified. But at least I don't pretend to be sincere. I won't even take shelter behind the cute phrase 
<though overused l "Christian Standard." It's too bad of course, that in our little hamlet of high morals and ethics people don't live the life they so readily profess. But then. people act in the manner that is best for themselves, and whenever something is less than 1•xpedient. they condemn it. 
NPither side is right nor is either wrong. Both are merely preoc­cupied in their games, and heaven ht>lp them if the games end, because there'll be nothing left to do. 
So burn on big fire, burn on. l'lay the discipline game, the sex gamP. the alcohol game. the dormitory shuffle game, the condl•mn SMC girls game, the SOB 1\lachPca gamP. the Pre-Med fight gam1•. the GI'A game, the ND jock gam1•. so on and so forth. And keep on hiding your vanity beneath the psuedo-eliche of "Christian Standard." because if you don't. ~·ou'll rPally see what fools you are ... what a fool I am for telling ~·ou. Burn on. 
Mike Hastings 

the observer 
Editorial Board 

Editor --Tom Drape Managing Editor --AI Rutherford Sports Editor --Greg Corgan News Editor --Terry Keeney Editorial Editor --Fred Graver Copy Editor --Jeanne Murphy Senior Night Editor --Bill Brink St. Mary's Editor --Mary Janca Features Editor .. J.R. Baker 
Contributing  Editors  ..  Ann  
McCarry,  Jim  Eder,  Pattie  
Cooney, Marlene Zloza  

Photo Editor --Chris Smith 

by Garry Trudeau 
Night Editor --Andy Praschak Assistant Night Editor --Marti Hogan Layout --Kathy Skiba, Marlene 
/1ACIWIIfiR.I Zloza. Mike Sarahan, Kevin, Bob, STAilT A Fil-E Kevin, J.P. 
ON 7liATMAN.~/
KAA-Copy Reader --Pat Hanifin \ Day Editor --Bill Sohn Editorials --Fred Graver


8tAM! 

Features--Ginny Faust, J. Robert Baker Graphics -· Marlene Zloza Sports --Greg Corgan, Bill Brink Typists .. Rick Huber, Nell VIII, Kathy Grace, Mary Tobin, Don Roos Compugraphic --Bob Steinmetz Picture Screener --AI D'Antonio Night Controllers --M.J. Foley, Dave Rust 
-

Monday, February 17, 197.$ the observer 5 
~----~~~~~~-~---~ 

separation of powers 
in the wake of watergate 
by janet denefe 
The Student Union Academic Commission 
of Books, The Constitutional Rights of is sponsoring a four-day conference, Association, The Defendant's Rights, and "Separation of Powers in the Wake of The Limits of Freedom. His major field of Watergate," beginning Monday, February study and research is American con• 17 through Thursday, February 20. The stitutionallaw with special reference to civil conference will focus in the individual roles liberties. Besides this, Fellman has written of each branch of government and the articles for several publications and written balance of power between them. the annual review of the Supreme Court for 
the American Political Science Review. The guest speakers will examine the Kommers and Beitzinver have studied 
separation of powers the way the Founding under the professor inthe .past Raymond F. Fathers understood and wrote about it in the Cour, C.S.C., Professor of Government and 
Federalist papers. How has it worked? Charles E. Rice, Professor of Law at the How has power shifted? How has each Notre Dame Law School, will co-discuss. branch changed? The conference is in­Brian J. Meginnes is moderator. 
terested in exploring these questions, Each session begins at 8 P.M. The guest especially in the light of the Watergate will speak for approximately 45 minutes and scandals, the demise of Richard Nixon, and the co-discussants, who have been briefed the installation of Gerald Ford as President. on the guest's lecture, will have 15 minutes 
to elaborate, agree, or disagree. The John Conroy, festival chairman, has been question and answer session will follow. 
working since August to contact The organizers of "Separation of Powers distinguished guest speakers. He has been in the Wake of Watergate" are hopeful that successful in getting top quality people who students will take this opportunity to Dr. Martin Diamond 


are knowledgeable in the field of govern­D1·. David Fellman ment. The festival is especially proud to 
examine the political problems which present Dr. Martin Diamond. Diamond is Tuesday's guest speaker is Dr. Samuel confronted the founders two hundred yearscurrently a Fellow at the Woodrow Wilson Patterson, chairman of the department of ago and still plague us today.International Center for Scholars in Political Science at the University of Iowa. Washington, D.C. He received his A.A. and He will lead the session on the Congress. His Ph.D. at the University of Chicago and general field of study is American politicssince then has been a Fellow at the center and his special concentration is legislativefor Advanced Study in the Behavioral politics and behavior. Patterson has been 
Sciences, at the Rockefeller Foundation, associated with the American Journal of and the Relm Foundation. He has written Political Science and the Journal of the 
reviews for various publications, such as the Midwest Political Science Association. He 
U.S. Civil Service Commission; and is a has written and edited several books on member of the Council of the American legislative processes and politics and has 
Political Science Association and APSA authored more than thirty articles and Steering Committee on Undergraduate monographs on the same subject.Education. Besides thse impressive qualifications, Diamond is particularly 
Patterson will explain the role of Congressinterested in the separation of powers and with respect to the balance of power. Hehas been studying and researching the thinks distrust of Congress may be the mostsubject for some time. 
serious problem the country must resolve in the aftermath of Watergate. John Roos, 
Diamond will open the conference on assistant professor of Government and Monday night with a general session. Co­International Relations, and Paul C. Bar­discussants will be two professors from tholomew, Professor of Government, will be Notre Dame, Walter Nicgorski of the the co-discussants. Marlene Zloza is the General Program of Liberal Studies and moderator. 
A.J. Beitzinger of the department of Schedule of Events
Government. John Conroy will serve as Herbert Storing will discuss the moderator for the question and answer presidency on Wednesday evening. A session that follows. professor at the University of Chicago, he 
Monday, FPbi·nai·y 17

has been a Fulbright Scholar and the recipient of several research grants from institutions such as the Ford Foundation 
Opt•ning, GPnPral SPssion: Library Auditorium -8:00p.m. and the National Endowment for the Humanities. Dr. Storing has published 
Eut•st SppakPI': Dr. Martin Diamond-Woodrow Wilson Fellow, Washington D.C. several books, including What Country llavp I?. Political Writings by Black 
{'o-lliscussants: Dr. Walter J. Nicgorski -Assoc. Professor of General Program and Americans and The Complete Anti­I ,iberal Studies; Dr. Alfons J. Beitzinger-Professor of Government 
FPderalist, and has contributed many ar­ticles to important journals. Among other 
1\lndt•rator: John J. Conroy

topics, he will discuss the myth of imperial presidency and how it distorts the balance of power. Peri Arn•Jld and Daniel Kom­mers, both professurs of Government at 
St•ssion on tht• Congrpss: Library Auditorium-8:00p.m. 
Notre Dame, will co-discuss the subject. David J. Hayes will moderate. 
(;m•st SpPakPr: Dr. Samuel C. Patterson -Chairman and Professor of Political Science at the University of Iowa 
The courts will be studied at the final session on Thursday. Dr. David Fellman, 
('o-niscussants: Dr. John Roos -Asst. Professor of Government; Dr. Paul C. Bar­Villas Professor of Political Science at the tholomew -Professor Emeritus of Government
University of Wisconsin, is the guest speaker. Fellman. former president of tne 
1\lodt••·ator: Marlene A. Zloza
American Association of University Professors, received his Ph.D. from Yale in 1934, and since then he has authored seven 
Wt•dnt>sday, Ft>bruary 19

books and edited two, including Censorship nr. lh•rbPrt J. Storing SPssion on the Presidency: Architecture Auditorium-8:00p.m. 
Gupst SpPaker: Dr. Herbert J. Storing-Professor of Political Science at the Universit)' of Chicago

collegiate jazz festival 

Co-Discussants: Dr. Peri E. Arnold -Asst. Professor of Government; Dr. DonaldP. Kommers -Professor of Government 
Barbara Simonds, chairwoman for CJF night, Aprilll. There will be approximately 
Modt>rator: David J. Hayes
1975, has announced plans for the seven­8-10 big bands and combos competing before teenth annual University of Notre Dame the judges panel on Friday. The remaining Collegiate Jazz Festival. music sessions will be on Saturday af­The festival will open on the lOth of April ternoon and Saturday night. The festival 
Thm·sday, February 20

with an informal symposium and discussion closes with a "jam session" by the judges on with the judges for this year's festival. The Saturday evening. This obviously is the 
SPssion on the Court: Library Auditorium-8:00p.m. 
panel of adjudicators for CJF 1975 includes highlight of CJF 1975. . Dan Morgenstern, former editor of The Notre Dame Festival is the oldest one 
GuPst Speaker: Dr. David Fellman -Vilas Professor of Political Science at the
Downbeat magazine, noted author and of its type in the country. The bands that 
University of Wisconsin

critic, Willis Conover, radio announcer and participate come from all over the nation­critic, Jack DeJohnette, former drummer New York, Tennessee, Wisconsin, 
Co-Discussants: Fr. Raymond F. Cour, C.S.C., Professor of Government; Dr. Charles E. 
with Miles Davis, Chuck Rainey, bass Louisiana, Texas, and Arizona, etc. The Rice-Professor of Law <Notre Dame Law Schoo}) 
-

player with such notables as Roberta Flack festival gets press coverage from Creem, and Gato Barbieri, Cecil Bridgewater, Downbeat, Rolling Stone, the Chicago 
Moderator: Brian J. Meginnes
trumpet player with the Thad Jones-Mel Tribune, as well as local newspapers and Lewis band and a former participant in magazines. 

CJF, his wife Dee Dee, songstress and If you have not heard any jazz, the jazz composer, and Sonny Rollins, who is festival staff urges you to come to one of the regarded by many as the premier tenor sax Jazz at the Nazz sessions on Wednesdayplayer around. Hubert Laws, noted flute night to see what the music is like. The staff player and composer, and Richard Abrah­also invites everyone to come to see Herbie ms, pianist from Chicago, may be present if Hancock in concert on February 20, 8:00 

OBSERVERFEATURES 
their schedules permit. p.m. at Stepan Center. Tickets are $4.00 The opening music session is on Friday general admission. 

-
6 the observer Monday, February 17, 1975 
To discuss detente issues 



Kissinger meets with Gromyko 
By WILBUR G. LANDREY 
UPI Foreign Editor 
JENEVA <UPI> -Secretary of, State Henry A. Kissinger arrived Sunday night and began what may be a tense round of meetings with Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko on the Middle East and a host of issue!! near the core of detente. 
The European Security Conference also may come up. 
West German leaders on all the issues they discussed, including American strategy to bring down the price of oil. 
Relations between the United States and the Soviet Union were the first subjects on the agenda when Kissinger and Gromyko began talks over dinner at the Soviet diplomatic mission. 
These included the new round of Strategic Arms Limitation Talks, Secretary Leonid I. Brezhnev's scheduled visit to the United States this summer. 
American officials expected that Gromyko also may bring up the subject of Cyprus, one of the possible issues. of tension between the two nations. 
As Kissinger arrived in Geneva, the Soviet official news agency Tass condemned last week's creation of a Turkish Cypriot to frustrate" a Cyprus settlement. 

In a brief arrival stateni"ent at Geneva airport, Kissinger said he and Gromyko would review the state of U.S.-Soviet relations and the situation in the Middle East. 
U.S. officials said the major and most delicate issue, the Middle East, will be reserved for Monday morning, when Kissinger and Gromyko are reopen the question of trade after Russia angrily denounced the 19 2 trade pact because of restrictions placed on it by Congress. 
Another failure on trade would be a disaster, the official said, and Kissinger must first discuss the question thoroughly with in­fluential congressmen before taking it up with the Russians again. 

Kissinger flew to Switzerland the now-defunct trade treaty autonomous republic in the nor­from Bonn, where he ·announced a between the two countries, and thern portion of the island as an "complete identity:'of views with Communist party General attempt by "certain NATO circles 
On-Egypt 

Israel softens demands 
By llnitt>d Prt>ss International 
Israeli government sources said Sunday Israel has slightly softened its demand that Egypt declare a pact of nonbelligeren­cy, insisting instead that Cairo only be ready to state its intention to "refrain from warfare." 
The sources said Israeli leaders dropped insistence on using the word "nonbelligeren­cy" because that would mean a full, formal peace treaty, which Egypt is not ready for. 
They said the softened Israeli definition for a peace emerged during talks last week with Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, who flew to Geneva Sunday for further Middle East talks with Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko. 
In Beirut, Egyptian Foreign Minister Ismail Fahmi said in remarks published . in the newspaper The Daily Star that a further Israeli military withdrawal on the Egyptian and Syrian fronts is likely before the end of June. 


Candidates await outcome 
By GEORGE GUDAUSKAS 
WASHINGTON CUPI) More than three months after the elections, two candidates for the Senate seat from New Hampshire still await the outcome. 


The Senate Rules Committee, directed by the Senate to deter­mined the winner of the disputed election, must choose between conservative Republican Louis C. Wayman or Democrat John A. Durkin. 
A mf!eting of the full committee is scheduled Mon­day, a federal holiday marking George Washington's birthday, 

-
-
... 

Fahmi refused, however, to reveal how substantial these withdrawals would be. 
Egypt would ensure nonag­gression in writing and the United States would guarantee oil supplies to Israel as part of the agreement, the newspaper said. 
Israel gets about half its oil needs from the fields, captured in the 1967 Middle East war. 
In his remarks in the Beirut newspaper, Fahmi described Kissinger's latest Middle East tour as "promising" but said: 
"We didn't offer any propo­sals, and we didn't get any either." 
The Egyptian foreign minis­ter said he expected the Geneva peace conference to reconvene "possibly around the middle of 1975." 
In Cairo, President Sadat said Sunday any partial Israeli withdrawal from Sinai will be a step toward the Geneva Middle East peace conference and not a substitute for it. 
Egyptian Information Minis-
to "narrow the scope" of the inquiry. A ballot recount is expected to be sought. 
It would be the fourth check of the votes. On election night, Wyman was declared the winner by more than 300 votes. The official canvass later gave Durkin, a former state insur­ance commissioner, a 10-vote victory. Wyman appealed to the state's Ballot Law Commission and won by a scant two votes on a review of protested ballots. 
Durkin then took his case to the Senate, final arbiter of election disputes. 
The Senate, with 61 Demo­
ter Ahmed Kamal Abu! Magd said Sadat made the statement at a conference of information ministers of Arab countries p1eeting in Cairo. 
In Tel Aviv, the newspaper Ha 'aretz, quoting reliable Western sources, said Israel has changed its position and is willing to return the Abu Rodeis oil fields tro Egypt as part of an interim withdrawal sPttlemen•. 
In London, diplomatic sources . said the Soviet Union pledged to deliver Egypt 36 MIG 23 advanced fighters and an unknown number of tanks and missiles. 
The promise was made during Gromyko's recent visit to Cairo, but the number of planes pledged was only one fourth the amount requested by Sadat, the sources said. 
The Beirut newspaper An Nahar said Sadat will visit Baghdad Friday to mediate in the Iraqi­Iranian border dispute and discuss Iraqi financial aid to Egypt. 
The visit will be the first by an Egyptian president to Iraq, the newspaper said. 
crats against 38 Republicans, chose to seat neither man pending a review of the election results. Ballots were shipped from New Hampshire under heavy guard for the probable recount. 

Wyman, a former congress­man, maintains that the broad­est review of ballots is needed to determine a winner -though the Ballot Law Commission reviewed only 400 of them in stripping Durkin of his victory. 
Wyman also has urged a new election, and the New Hampshire legislature has passed legislation ! to permit it. 

scheduled to meet again before On strategic arms, Kissinger Kissinger flies on to Britain and Gromyko will begin to spell out after lunch. the Vladivostok agreement bet­ween President Ford and
American officials believe that 
Brezhnev, which would limit each 2,400

Gromyko may take a hard line in side to nuclear weapons the talks, especially on the Middle delivery vehicles that can be East and Cyprus. t>mployed up to 1985. The senior 
The meeting would provide offical said that the Russians have Kissinger's first chance to sense put forward a plan for completing the mood of the Soviet Politburo the agreement with some of their 
since the mystery surrounding
Brezhnev's illness earlier this own pet ideas attached. 
On the issue of Cyprus, 

year. Brezhnev suddenly reap-Gromyko may again propose an peared last week, looking rested international conference on the and happy. subject where the Turkish 
A senior official aboard Cypriot minority has just Kissinger's lane said that it declared a separate state in the 
~w•a•s..•p~ro~b·a~~~to~or-~e•a~r~ly~-t~o__.north. 


NICKlE'S 
PRESENTS 


60 HOURS 
OF THE LOWEST BEER PRICES IN THE COUNTRY! 
MON, TUES, WED: NOON -MIDNIGHT THURS, FRI, SAT: NOON -8:00 P.M . 
PLUS !HE BEST HALF-POUND CHARCOAL GRILLED HAMBURGERS IN TOWN 
-


Experimental basis 
Stepan to be used for athletics 
by Erin Dwyer Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame physical education department and the interhall athletic office will begin today their use of Stepan Center as a site for athletic events. Ac­tivities scheduled for the converted building include badminton, ballroom dancing, interhall basketball and volleyball, and limited use for club sports. 
The freshman physical Pducation program will use Stepan primarily for badminton. Brother 

Louis Hurcik. C.S.C., of the P.E. provide three additional volleyballDepartment explained that the courts and two additional building is to be used on an ex­basketball courts for interhall perimental basis. play. Rich 0 'Leary, assistant 
·'Expansion of our program has director of club sports, stated that been encouraged and Stepan the courts will be used from 6 p.m.provides us with the needed space to 10 p.m. Sunday through Thurs­lor attempting such expansion into day. for interhall contests. There areas such as modern dance, will be no free play periods for where interest has been high," students and one night a week will llurcik said. be reserved for club sports. 
In the evenings, Stepan will When asked about the suitability 

US government approves 
of Stepan's floor for athletics, O'Leary responded, "I foresee no problems. Other places use. concrete floors for basketball and1 volleyball. It should be no problem as long as it is kept clean." 
If demand is high, Stepan may become a year round athletic facility but by present plans Stepan will be utilized only during the winter months from Thanksgiving to Easter. 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
Iran buys into Pan Am 
WASHINGTON <UPil Iran won l1.S. government approval Sunday to buy a sizable share of Pan American World Airways Inc., on condition it will not try to take over the financially ailing airline or impede its defense commitments. 
The unprecedented deal would, m effect. allow the booming I'Prsian Gulf nation to use overflow oil profits to gain partial control of a major ll.S. industry--an airline which. ironically. is fighting off financial collapse partly because of soaring oil prices. 
Iran said the deal was only the first step in its long range plans to invest billions in U.S. business. 
The State Department an­nounced the t.T.S. government approved the proposed Iran -Pan :\m deal "in principle," subject to follow up approval of the specific agreement by the Civil APronautics Board ICAB). 
"What this action today does," a 

Student Union sponsors talks on government 
ThP Student llnion Academic 1'om mission is sponsoring a four­spssion conference. "St>paration of l'owPrs in the Wake of \\ atPrgate." beginning tonight and running nightly through Thursday. F('hruary 20 
FPstival chairman .John Conroy ·statPd that the purpose of the JtoeturP series is "to put discussion of Watergate in a larger historical l'OntPxt." 
"Tiwre is a danger with \\'atPrgate. now that it's past. to rdmtily the crisis with particular mdividuals. Because vou've done ;rwav with a man ·like Nixon d01•sn't mPan that you've gotten ridP of the problem of Watergate." I 'onro~· 1•xplained. 
Tlw lectures will therefore 
l'l'ntl'r on the concept of thP 
spparation of powers betwPen the 
three branches of government in 
rt>lation to the questions that arose 
during Watergate. 
"Much of the discussion will. 
locus on specific happenings of 
Watergate; but hopefully there 
will be a good deal of reflection on 
what the founders of the Con­
stitution had to say," observed 
Conroy. "We hope to see how far 
we have veered away from what 
the founders said during the course 
of history and where we are right 
now." 
The format of the sessions, which begin at 8 p.m., will be the same. A guest speaker will ad­dress himself to the specific concern of the evening. Two mt•mbers of the Notre Dame faculty will in turn comment on the speaker's remarks and offer his own opinions. 
Pan Am spokesman explained, "is give us a license from the govern­mPnt. if you will, to go to Teheran and nail down the details of the agreement and come back and submit it to the CAB." 
He said the agreement was not vet "a hard and fast deal," but iran's Ambassador Ardeshir Zahedi told a news conference in l'ine Mountain, Ga., the agreement would: 
--Transfer 13 to 15 per cent of I'an Am's stock to Iran Air, the Iranian national airline. 
--Give Iran 50 per cent of the stock in Intercontinental Hotels, a profitable Pan Am subsidiary. 
--Place one Iranian on Pan Am's 17 member board of directors. 
Zahedi said he could put no dollar figure on the agreement. Airline industry sources said, however. Iran was paying $55 million for the controlling interest 
in  Intercontinental  Hotels  and  
would  also  lend  the  airline  $250  
million.  

Zahedi said the investment, in any case. would help the airline recover from debts which ran to $81 million last year. 
Ill' said Iran's investment in Pan Am is only part of a projected $10­$12 billion long range investment program in the United States, mainly in agricultural business. 
In its joint statement with the Iranian government, the State Department said "both govern­ments note that ... the government of Iran has no interest in con­trolling the management or operations of Pan American. 

"For its part, the United States government has no objection in principle to the proposed agreement." 
The statement noted CABap­proval of the agreement would be necessary and added the pact would "satisfv various requirements of the United States Department of Defense vis-a-vis Pan American." 
It did not spell out these com­mitments. which presumably relate to the use of Pan Am air­craft and t.>quipment in case of war or military emergencies. 
Pan Am and TWA, the nation's other major international carrier, have been operating in the red for years and have repeatedly ap­pealed to the government for Pmergency financial support. The CAB recently approved a route­swapping arrangement in which the two airlines traded off routes in the Atlantic and Pacific regions. 
Iran is one of the world's major oil producers and a leading source of lf.S. petroleum supplies. Its oil revenues have multiplied many times in the year since the Arab oil Pmbargo and toughened pricing policies have driven oil costs steadily upward. 

WANTED 
Need ride to St. Louis weekend of Feb. 
21. Call Joanne at 6997. 
Married couple needed for Iive-in houseparents for foster home. Salary. Write P.E.P., Inc., 3012 S. Twickenham, South Bend, 46614. 
I need a ride to Indiana University I Bloomington) or Purdue University (West Lafayette). Will share ex. penses. Any weekend. Call Michelle, 291 1598. 
I need a ride to F Lauderdale, Fla, durinq the sprinq break. Will help pay tor c:as and drive too. Please call Mark at 255 5559. 
R1de wanted to DC area weekend of March I f' ran, 5714. 
f11 chitects who can adapt local " nlt'rial and construction methods to desiqn ot community buildinqs. Serve "' cfevelopinq nations. See Peace ( orps n:>cruiters in library, Feb. 17~20. 
Innovative persons to teach adults, ITJllt'r <ity dropouts, and bi lingual <hTicfrPn throuqhout U.S. Elementary lo LJT11V<'rsity levels in all subjects in 1ountr ies overseas SPe Peace Corps VISTA 1·ecruiters in library, Feb. 17. 
70.  
FOR SALE  
1966 .1utomradial  Ford atic. tires  q custom ood running and 2 snow  four door condition, tires. Air  

condition inC). $500. 272·0859 after 6 pm. 
Left hand <lOll clubs. 3215 for details. 
One black and white 12-inch Motorola Television. Call Ed, 1487. 
Pioneer turntable PL 51 with AT 125 <artridge. Call Ed, 1487. 
NOTICES 
Money? Morrissey Loan will lend up lo S150 tor 30 days, 1 day waiting l'f'r1od Basement of LaFortune. n,,ily. 11·15 to 12:15. 
1ypinq. papers, theses, dissertations. J.:,·asonable rates, reliable service. 772 0859 ,,fter 6 pm. 
D1sciplinary action hanging over your il<:',,d? Call Student Govt, 7668. We "'•'Y ile able to help. 
Happy Hour at Louie's, 7:30 to 8:30 Mon lhru Thursday. Special price on ,, pint of beer. 
Enter the Mock Stock Market, "Old Business Building" or LaFortune. 
RPsponsible students desire to rent lliOtorhome tor 10 days (March 21-30) for trip to Florida. Will pay $400. Call Trace, 234-1889. 
Please return unused crutches to infirmary. Injured students ned them! Get your credit! 
Those interested in charter flight to Los Angeles bring full payment of $156 to 1-C LaFortune Center at 3:30 on Monday, Feb. 17. 
Intensive Language Training in Hausa, Swahili, Tologo, Fijian, Thai. Korean, Spanish or Portuguese FREE! See the Peace Corps Recruiters in library, Feb. 17-20. 
BBAs & MBAs: opportunites advising businesses, cooperatives and credit unions. See Peace Corps-VISTA recruiters in library Feb. 17-20. 
If you grew up on a farm, know how to drive tractor, repair equipment, etc., others need what you know. See Peace Corps-VISTA recruiters in library, Feb. 17~20. 
Campus Press is now hiring an ex. perienced pressman. Interested? Contact C.P. at 7047, 1-5 Nights, call Glen, 287~6245. 
SPRING BREAK TRIP TO MON­TEGO BAY, JAMAICA . RESER­VATIONS WILL BE TAKEN UNTIL THIS FRIDAY, FEB. 21. TO SIGN UP DR FOR FURTHER IN­FORMATION, CALL 272-9895 AFTER 7:00P.M. 
. Whoever lost $10 Feb. 13, call 288-8068 alter 6. Caller must identify approx. area where bill was found. 
GOOD TICKETS FOR THE FRANKIE VALLI & THE FOUR SEASONS CONCERT MARCH 8 AT MORRIS CIVIC ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE. ALL SEATS RESERVED. 
FOR RENT 

Now r·pntinq 2 to 5 bedroom homes. ( OlllpiE'tf'ly furnished for Sept. Call ?34 9364. 
Houses ranqi,q trom two to seven ll('drooms Complete! y turn ished. AvailablE' tor May or Sept 234-9364. 
LOST AND FOUND 
I ound 1 pr of qold fra.nes between C~r·ace and Dining Hall. Call 7758. 
I ound !'air of qlasses in a cloth case ·•Par Z.1hm Call 8231 
~'art found in aftermath of party at NO .1pts Please call 232 4069 and 1dentity 
Lost l'rown leather purse. Please 1cturn Rr"Ward ~543. 
Lost pearl rinq 111 piano room of O'Sh,1q Rr'Wdrd. If found call 8019. 
Lost: 8-toot white and blue knitted scarf. Lost around S Dining Hall. Reward. Call 3694 anytime. 
PERSONALS 
"To Ryrnsie. the n•,ld quitarist of 
Morrissey Manor M<lY roses forPver bloom 1n your teeth. 
And the sword of your w1t never t.n, 1ts sheath." Happy Birthday from Chapel Cho•r 
I 
To No. 1, et. al. Your recent theory. 1e., tinydick impossible to measure Would hypothesize that the I remain nomenclature and that dick be followed by less. 
Academically yours. No. 13 
Barbara Brems: Happy 21st. no more take I.D.s Congratulations 
Flymsiiee 
Badin Girls: Suuzie, Joanne, Mary, Judy, DONNA Jane and all the rest. We missed you all last Friday but we didn't forget Happy V ·D and watch out, we're streakin', ----!! 
The Wild Bunch II 
Dear Kid, Whips and chains and leather boots, and two JD's in birthday suits. 
Love, Doc 
To U.J. ACCT. Please identify yourself Camille of Walsh (8093) 
From Plague to Pleasure. War. m hearted thanks to nurses: ::Hoolihan" Slowey, Terry "Dish," 
lnsance" Mary Jane, "Sarge" Florence. Thanks Doc and stud. inf. staff. Hello to 2llth USO unit: Patti "B.T." Sunny, and Paula. No unhappy returns. From 212th M·A·S-H Unit 
ERRATUM: To the little girl in thp Yellow coat. I made a mistake, you hve 1n Lyons. Still love ya. 
HH 
• .j 
8 the observer Monday, February 17, 1975

-


A.D., Batton power ND by LaSalle 
Irish now 15-1, face St. ]oe s tonight 
By Greg Corgan Sports Editor 
Digger Phelps provided the bag of tricks, but again, .\drian Dantley was the magician as the Irish basketball team downed 12th ranked LaSalle 91-75 , Saturday afternoon. 
Phelps had more than a few aces up his sleeve and he played the first one on the opening trick. Instead of putting Dantley inside, underneath the basket, or l'Ven at the wing against the Explorers' zone defense, Digger put Adrian on the point and the sophomore forward responded with 36 points on 16 of 27 from the field and four of five from the gift line. 
"Wl• hadn't scouted Dantley on the point against the zone," said LaSalle coach Paul Westhead, "but wt> had seen him on the wing. l'd rather see him there than in the gut." 
"Wl· did a super job breaking their zone," said !'helps. "I think we fooled them a little by playing Adrian at the point." 
Phelps threw his second ace with 7:32left to play in the game after the Explorers had narrowed the Irish lead to one, 63-62, on a bucket by Joe Bryant. At that point the Irish went to a zone defense and in the next two minutes outscored LaSalle 12-1. 
''The zone really turned this game around," said 
Phelps. "I have to give (assistant coach) Dick 
DiBiaso credit for that. He scouted LaSalle and got us 
ready for the ball game. The zone broke their 
momentum. They had cut the lead to one, and I 
decided it was time we made a move. And it worked. 
I think they were caught unprepared and obviously 
they weren't able to handle it because after that, we 
scored 12 straight points." 
With 5: 07left, thatturned out to be the difference in 
the game. The Explorers got as close as ten, 83-73, 
with 1:24 to play, but an 8-2 scoring spurt by the Irish 
in the final minute iced Notre Dame's 15th win. 
LaSalle's record dropped to 19-4. "Notre Dame is 
certainly a good basketball team," offered Westhead. 
"lt was the only game we haven't been in at the end 
all year. We just couldn't contain them defensively." 

h lt T~T pleased with Batton's defensive performance. "He
Fencers a FF atne a e did a great job on Bryant <8 of 2ll," said Digger.
• ~ ''Dave's been lifting weights and it's really helping 
3 year Wln Strea at 1.0rty hi~.f~e 
coaches have been working with me all 
The Notre Dame fencing team upset highly-touted Wayne State 15-12 this weekend, ending State's streak of forty straight meet victories since 1972. State's last defeat came at the hands of the Irish three years ago in the ACC when they dropped a 14-13 decision. 
NI> also downed Michigan State and Ohio State to complete a sweep of the event at East Lansing. The Irish scored a 20-7 victory over the Spartans while escaping with a narrow 14-13 comeback win over 
osu. 
Notre Dame dropped the sabre rompetion against Wayne State 7­2, but came back to take the epee match by the same 7-2 margin. They then won the foil com­petition. considered to be Wayne State's strong point, by a score of 6­:l to capture the meet. The deciding bout was won by fresh­man Pat Gerard. 
"That's what we hoped would happen." said coach Mike DeCicco of the foil bouts. "That's probably the best foil performance I've seen by us all year." 
"Knowing the relative strengths and won-loss record of Wayne State, the kids really wanted this one," DeCicco con­tinued. "They just put it all together and weren't going to be denied." DeCicco likened the spirit and emotion of the fencers 



ND-LaSalle stats 
NOTRE D.\ME (tl) fK It nob pi pllt \dnan DanUt'v lfl.2i 4-5 14 I J6 
Bill Palt'mo · !1-12 ~0 8 t IU Pt'lt' Croll:): J.l 1H1 0 0 2 Don WllllalllB 2-i 2·2 I 2 6 Ra~ Martin 2·3 +~ I ~ M Toby Knight ;).II ~I ~ 4 10 Dwight cia~ 1·5 u • o 4 Davt' Bailon i·ll 1·2 R 2 15 Tom Varga ~o IHI 0 0 0 Davt' Kuzmicz ~0 ~0 0 0 0 R Andt:·rson ~0 0-t 0 0 0 Billy Dl't'W ~0 ~0 0 0 0 
Totals 39-77 13-18 .U 15 91 LASALLE .(75) lg n re11 p1 p&s 

.... BUI Taylor 1-19 2·2 l ~ 0 16 J«K' Bryant . 11-21 1·2 4 3 17 Donn WUtx>r !1-8 IHI 4 4 10 Cbarlll' Wise 7·16 !>-8 3 3 19 Gk'nn Collll'r !1-7 IHI ! ~ 10 Jim Wolktew1cz 1·2 ,1·2 2· 3 
Daryle Charles ~I ~0 I 0 
8 Brodzmllki 1H1 i-0 I 0 Totals 11-n 9·12 2R 19 m

.... 
Halftim<': Notno Da.m<' 42, LaSalle ti 
Slloollng: Notl't' DaIlK' 3ll ol 77 lor !iI per cent; LaSaUI' 33 or it lor 411 Jl<'r et>nl 
Tumovrn;. LaSaUI' ~. Noln> Danlt' 18. 


TWO OF FIFTEEN; freshman Dave Batton battles for two of his fifteen 
points as the Irish dumped LaSalle 91-75. CPhoto by Chris Smith) 
"Them" is Dantley, who was magical indeed around the hoop all af­ternoon, and freshman Dave Batton who tallied 15 points on seven of 11 from the floor and one of two free throws. But Phelps was more

Sf f 

upset to that of the basketball 
team's upset of UCLA. 
Still high from their streak­breaking victory, the Irish roared to a 20-7 win over MSU. "The momentum we gained by beating Wayne State rolled us right by Michigan State." said DeCicco. "They never had a chance." 
Notre Dame then survived a dose meet with the Buckeyes of Ohio State. They trailed at the 
1 h · d h

beginning unti t ey game t e lead and the victory by taking the foil competition. 
DeCicco had special praise for the freshmen on the team. Bt>side's Gerard's bout-deciding win in the foil competition, frosh Mike McCahey also recorded a foil victory, while John Strauss added a win in the epee division. 
"They all had a big part in it," said DeCicco, "but if you can give any one group credit, it's the fresh­men." 

leers lose twice to Huskies 
by Bob Kissel 
It takes almost eight hours by multiple plane connections to travel between Notre Dame and Michigan Tech. Add the crushing weight of a pair of lopsided losses, and the trip is even worse. The Irish hockey team dropped two 
over the weekend, 7-3 and 10-1, to the Tech Huskies. 
You've heard of deja vu? Friday's 7-3 loss could not fit the phrase more perfectly. Tied 3-3 at the end of two periods, Tech proceded to quickly dispose of the young Irishmen. Huskie George Lyle got the game winner in the final period at 8:43. 
Lyle's 4-3 marker prefaced another of those rapid fire parade of goal~ which has turned_ close games mto opponent VI~tones. In 

The fencers next meet is this . the next 2:17 the Huskies _added Saturday, when they will face t~o more ~oals, convertmg a Illinois and Wisconsin at Illinois. cliffhanger mto Tech c?ach HJ 
.John Macinnes' 38oth victory at 

Swi1n1ners drop first 
by Ernie Torriero 

For the second time this season a Purdue team broke a Notre Dame streak. This time, the sport was swimming instead of football. The Boilermakers ended the Irish ten­meet win streak, 80-43, Saturday afternoon at the Rockne Memorial Pool. Purdue posted nine first-. place finishes, as they easily handled the Notre Dame challenge. The Irish, 10-1, have one more meet, in addition to an in­vitational, left in the season. 
For the first time this year, Notre Dame failed to win the first event, the 400-yard medley relay. The Boilermakers won that event easily, as they set a pool record with a time of 3:40.5. Purdue came back in the next event, the 1000­yard freestyle to set another pool record, as Bill Lewis swam the distance with a time of 10:28.6. 
Notre Dame was clearly out­classed in the diving events. Bill Smith won the one-meter diving event (260.50) and Paul Steiger copped the three-meter diving contest (286.35). 
The meet did feature some fine performances by the Irish. Jim Kane placed first in the so-yard 
/ 
freestyle and it was his quick start that made the difference in the 400­yard freestyle relay. Ed Fitz­simons swam well in the 100-yard ·freestyle . as he posted a time of 
0:49.4. Bob Wardell won the 200­individual medley (2:06.5). Overall, Irish coach Dennis 
Stark was pleased with the Notre Dame performance. "Purdue is an excellent team," says Stark. "We knew that they had better divers and freestylers. I thought that we'd be closer to them this year. I guess we just weren't close enough." Captain Kane echoed his coach's feelings by stating, "Considering the fact that Purdue competes against some tough Big Ten foes and that they are a fully scholarshiped team, I'd have to say that we fa ired pretty well." He further pointed out. "It's tough to stop a team that is setting pool records." 
The Irish have a week to rest as they prepare for Illinois State, the team that faces Notre Dame Saturday at 2:00 p.m. in the Rockne Pool. This is the last meet of the year for the 10-1 Irish, who have enjoyed their best season of competition ever. Admission is free and open to the public. 

year," added Batton. "They've helped me realize that there's a lot of little things I have to do out on the court. Since the ·villanova game (when he had a season high 17 points) I think I've become a more complete ballplayer." 
The Irish were behind only once during the course of the game and that was midway through the first half when a jumper by Glenn Collier gave the Ex­plorers a 21-18 advantage. However Notre Dame answered with five straight baskets as Toby Knight, who again came off the bench and played solidly, hit a layup, Dantley and Batton canned jump shots, Knight scored on a tip-in and Dantley sunk a 12-footer. 
LaSalle came to within three, 38-35 with 1: 12left in the first half, but Pete Crotty added two for the Irish on a layup and Dantley crashed underneath for two more with five seconds left to give Notre Dame a 42-35 halftime lead. 
In the second half, the Irish were up by as much as Pleven. 61-50 with 12:00 to play. LaSalle was in the midst of its comeback, outscoring Notre Dame 12-2, when Digger played his trump card and went to the zone. 
"LaSalle has a fine basketball team." said Digger, "anybody who beats Alabama is playing basketball. The story today was that our kids played a great gaml'. 
"Wt•'ve become a more mature team since we played Villanova back in January. Defensively, we're coming on. Batton played well and Paterno did a great job on Bill Taylor. We're getting more mileage out of Williams. Knight and Batton and I just love to substitute when I can." 
Although he accounted for only four of NO's 91 points. eo-captain Dwight Clay led the Irish with eight assists and seemed to be the added spark Notre Dame needed during those key first and second half scoring spurts. 
With a 15-7 season record the Irish are definitely in the NCAA tournament picture. "The bids come out on March 5," noted Digger. "After today's win, we've got to be right back in there." 
!'helps doesn't have much time to think about it, howl•ver. The Irish host St. Joseph's <Ind. l, currently :!0-2. tonight at 8:10 p.m. before taking a brief vacation and heading to DePaul Saturday. Notre Damp will wind up its season at home against For­dham on Feb. 25 and Dayton on March 1. 
the Houghton, Michigan school. Bill Steele picked off a Lenny Moher clearing pass for a goal at 
9:58. Lyle gave the Huskies their three goal edge at 11:00, capitalizing on a scramble in front of Moher. Chris Ferguson added one more insult to the pile of in­juries. scoring at 19:10, on a 2-1 break with center Mike Zuke. 
Both NO and Tech had numerous scoring openings in the opening period, but only the Huskies managed to hit the net. Zuke, whose play Friday could be characterized as ubiquitous, gave Tech the 1-0 lead at 2:33 on a deflection of a Bill Steele centering pass. 
It took the Huskies but eleven seconds of the middle stanza to go ahead 2-0. Steve Jensen was left alone seven feet in front of Moher and .Jensen hit the upper corner for the score. 
Pat Conroy, but a minute later, controlled the faceoff himself, skated in front of goalie Jim Warden and slid the puck into the .lower left corner, cutting the Tech margin by one. 
Zuke, only a junior out of Saulte Ste. Marie, tallied at 12:58 of the middle period on the power play advantage. Zuke controlled the rebound off a Bill Steele shot. Zuke ended up with two goals and three assists for his efforts. 
The moonman, Tim Byers finally ended his 30 game string of frustrating almost-goals, scoring his first goal on the deflection of a Mark Olive at 13:2.4. 
Alex Pirus tied the game at 16:42 of the second session on the extra man situation. With Lyle off for elbowing, Pirus put a slapshot between the legs of defenseman Doug Young, left of Warden. 
Brran Walsh's first goal Saturday night. may be somewhat like the little Dutchboy who put his finger in the dike and prevented the proverbial floodgates from opening. 
Only Walsh's goal stopped up the Michigan Tech deluge for just under 15 minutes. Walsh opened the game's scoring at 4:02 with a quick wrist shot that eluded Huskie netminder Bruce Horsch. Ten minutes later the floodgates swung wide open. 
Notre Dame's slim 1-0 lead was quickly erased at 14:53 <Bob D'Aivisel, 15:53 <Dana Decker), and 18:50 (O'Aivisel in the first period. The second period Tech attach featured the antics of George Lyle and Steve Jensen. .Jensen assisted on both Lyle markers, coming at :25 and 6:06. 
A5-1 spread was not good enough 
for the hungry Huskies, as they poured five more goals in on John Peterson. a picture of frozen solitude. Scoring for the Huskies in the final twenty minutes were : Lyle <3: 12), Steele (7:08), Stu Ostland <12: 16l, and finally Bob Lorimer (16:29). 
It may seem hard to com­prehend, but John Peterson stopped 55 shots of the 103 Tech shots attempted. Peterson played a solid game in net, but one fresh­man goaltender cannot stop the brunt of the Tech attack by him­self. 
Notre Dame has a record of 9­18-1 in the WCHA, while Tech continues their run at the top spot in the league with a 19-9-0 season mark. The Irish take on the Bulldogs from Minnesota-Duluth, a team which is charging as of late for the final playoff spot or better. 

ND Sports Slate 
Fl•b. 17 BASKETBALL--against St. Joseph's <Ind.) at ACC, 8:10p.m. \\'H ESTUNG--at Drake Ft>b. 21 WHESTUNG--at Akron HOCKEY--against Minnesota-Duluthat ACC, 7:30p.m. 
Ft>b 22 
BASKETBALL--at Dl'paul HOCKEY--against Minnesota-Duluth at ACC, 7:30p.m. SWIMMING--against Illinois State at Rockne Pool, 2:00 p.m. WRESTLING--at John Carroll 






