Oa The IDslde 
Security 
... pages 5-8 Medea preview 
...page 9 

serving the notre dame-st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 84 
Wednesday, February 19, 1975 
Students, administrators respond 

Reactions to Calendar vary 
by Bob Mader Starr Reporter 
"We were led to believe that the 
Thanksgiving break would be an 'extended' 
break." Student Body President Pat 
McLaughlin said yesterday in response to 
the 1975-76 Academic Calendar. 
"~rue, we didn't get a signed, sealed, and delivered statement from the Academic Council stating how long the break would be." McLaughlin noted. "But when it was proposed and publicized as being so popular. no mention was made that it was unfeasible. It just boils down to the fact that we have been had." 
The calendar for the next academic year which was released yesterday from the office of Leo Corbaci, dean of ad­ministration. lists September 3 as the first class day. 
The only break for the first semester, which ends December 20, occurs over the Thanksgiving holiday between November 26 and November 30. There are 71 total class days in the semester. 
According to Richard Conklin, Director of Information Services, who sat in at the Academic Council meetings, virutally all those who proposed a post Labor Day start were willing to accept a shortened Thanksgiving vacation in return. 
''There's no perfect calendar," Conklin said. "It's been Fr. Burtchaell's point all along that when you get one thing you have to give up another. You can't have your eake and eat it. too." 
Conklin added that there was no stipulation of <1 definite number of days for Thanksgiving break in the Council's debate of the issue. 
McLaughlin was particularly angry that no Administration source responsible for making up the academic calendar had brought up the impossibilty of a week-long Thanksgiving break while the issue was being discussed. "They surely had to know that that was the basic assumption being made." he said. 

Grace proposed 


Academic Council members gave two reasons for assuming the Thanksgiving break would be a week long. First, in the Student Government survey of student and faculty opinion on the calendar issue, three out of the four proposals were for a post­Labor day start. 
One of the proposals called for no mid­semester break and a "long" Thanksgiving break. Another proposal was for no mid­semester break, a short Thanksgiving break. and an earlier end to the semester. The third proposal called for two short breaks. These proposals assumed that by eliminating the midsemester break a number of extra days would be available. 
Secondly. according to Council member Fr. Ernan McMullin, Burtchaell made a motion for a calendar consisting of a mid­semester break and a one-day Thanksgiving break. McMullin said this comparison with the one-day break makes the four-and-one­half day vacation an "extended" break in that context. 
Student representatives on the council, Thomas Wilhelmy and Susan Hicks, both 

Coed living suggested 
by Maurt't"n }<'lynn Starr Reportt"r 
Fr. Thomas McNally, rector of Grace. yesterday submitted a proposal to the Committee on Undergraduate Life that would set up an experiment in co--educational living in Grace Hall. Conceding that prospects were dim that anything would come of his proposal this year, McNally said he and others in Grace thought the plan should be considered nevertheless. 
"Our proposal might have merit or it might not." he admitted. "My only point is that it deserves a hearing. I don't think the issue of coeducational living can be shoved under the table forever." 
Following discussions among McNally, various Grace residents, 
and  assistant  rectors  William  
Beauchamp,  Fr.  Claude  
Pomerleau.  and  Fr.  Donald  

McNeill last fall, the plan was submitted to the University Of­ficers for consideration. Ac­cording to McNally, however, ''Those who studied the housing situation apparently gave it only a quick look." 
"Fr. Burtchaell, University Provost, wrote me that the officers did not wish to consider our coed living proposal in depth," McNally continued, "because they were simply trying to figure out whether to give women preferential access to campus living, and if so, where they could find a net increase in beds." 

Under the Grace proposal, 100 female undergraduates would be housed in one of the sections on floors 2,3, 4 and 5. The other section on the four floors would house male residents. Students wishing to live on the coed floors would be interviewed beforehand to determine their attitudes toward participation in the program and the reponsibility involved. 
There are three key points in­volved in the program as proposed: 
--All residents would understand that the program was an ex­pl"rinH'nt which could be ter­minated at the end of the school year. 
--The men and women would volunteer to take part in the ex­perience, and would be in­terviewed to make sure that they agreed with the educational goals and value orientation of the program. 
--The men and women who resided in Grace would commit themselves to self and group evaluations before, during, and at the end of the year. 
Could upgrade hall life 
"Although we concede there are many questions left unanswered," the plan concluded, "we suggest that this plan is basically sound and, if successful, could sub­stantially upgrade hall life on campus." 
Commenting on the Grace proposal, McNally noted that it is squarely in line with recom­mendations contained in the report of the Committee on University Priorities (COUPl, which urge the University to make the total en­vironment of the residence halls "conductive to every proper kind of personal growth." 
"It's difficult for me to see how we can completely discount the possibility that this 'personal growth' might be furthered for many in a coed living situation within a few halls," McNally stated. "In fact, the experience elsewhere strongly suggests that this is exactly what happens when such coeducational living arrangements are carefully structured and evaluated by staff and students alike." 
Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant to the provost, agreed that "there are a lot of things to be gained in bringing men and women together in situations in which they can meet and communicate," and observed that the issue of coed dorms has been considered in the past. 
"We've talked about this for several years, but not as a timely consideration," said Jones. "Other universities have had good and bad resultswith coed housing." 
"The close proximity of men and women, the informality of en­counters, etc. are all good. And from a purely pragmatic point of 
(continued on page 10) 
point to the proposals of the student government survey as being the source of 
the assumption. 
Professor Raymond Brach stated, ''My understanding is that the break would be based on the length of the semester as determined by Labor Day, along with an 
attempt  to  keep  a  balance  between  the  
semesters."  
Professor  Arthur  Quigley  said  the  

Academic Council set only guidelines for making the calendar with no specification of days. 
Corbaci stated that the Academic Council had determined only three guidelines. These three would be a post-Labor Day start. one break only during the semester, and that the break would occur over Thanksgiving. 
There are other guidelines, according to Corbaci, which were adopted when the academic calendar was revised in 1969 to end the first semester before Christmas. Among these were guidelines for the date of commencement, placement of the Easter break, number of exam days required, and that there should be a balance in the number of days in each semester. 
Commenting on this, Student represen­tative Mark Seal said, "The American Bar Association says every law school must have thirteen weeks in each semester. Now there isn't any such requirement for un­dergraduates. but there's a feeling among university officials across the country that it's kosher to have 72 class days." 
"With a week off at Thanksgiving next yearwe'dhave6Bclassdays," Corbaci said. 
·'But what happens in the following years wr.ere Labor Day falls on the sixth or the seventh 7 It would be a farce." 
Hicks supported Corbaci's statement. "It has to do with getting an education," she commented. "A semester here should be the equivalent of what it is at other schools." 
McLaughlin and Academic Commissioner .James Ambrose held differing opinions. "A full week at Thanksgiving would give us a mere HB class days," McLaughlin stated. "However, we know that 68 dayc; would not 
affect our accreditation nor would it be at 
great variance with the 73 spring class 
days. The number of class days argument is 
worthless." 

When asked about following years in 
which Labor Day would be later than next 
year, he said, "I think the calendar should 
be reviewed each year. It always has been 
since I've been here." 

Ambrose also felt that a short first semester would have little effect. "Notre Dame has a good enough reputation that other universities wouldn't downgrade us for the length of our semester.I'd prefer 68 days but there doesn't seem to be much we can do about it now. If the students feel there is a need for a change I suppose it could be brought up to Fr. Burtchaell and be put on the agenda of the next Council 
meeting." 

McMullin also commented, "I see nothing magical about a certain number of class days." 
There was a general feeling in the Academic Council that they had passed a calendar which the students would want, according to Quigley. "There was a good feeling," he said, "that the community got what it wanted." 
"I'm really disappointed in the com­plaints from the students," said student representative Mark Seal. "We didn't vote for our own preferences but what we felt the majority of people wanted. I think there would be complaints. though, with any calendar." 
"I guess I was mislead as a lot of other people were,'' stated Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant to the provost. "But when J counted up the number of class days I found there was still only 71." 
McLaughlin was probably the most bitter. 
''I can only fault my own naivete for believing that a good decision had been made. I can only fault myself for believing that our input was really input. I can only blame myself for thinking that the com­munity voice was really heard," he said. 
"I don't know what else they want," said Corbaci. 
Disciplined students used by Macheca 
by Terry Keent>y 
News Editor 

Dean of Students John Macheca has used undergraduate students facing disciplinary action by the University as Security personnel for the University. 
When eontacted last night about the practice, Brother Just l'aczesny. vice president for Student Affairs and Macheca's im­nwdiate superior, stated he did not know of it and did not approve of it. 
"I do not necessarily approve of using students for guard duty hl•eause I would judge they would not be conscientious in their performance of their duty," Paczesny said. 
"The fact that the practice is going on surprises me," Paczesny eontinued. "My preference is that for any student guards we use wt• put them in our hire." 
l\Jacheca declined to comment on the matter last night. 
Since last August. Macheca has used about seven students who have eome to his office for disciplinary action to perform security duties instead of receiving some other punishment for violating llniversity rules and regulations. 
These students have primarily served as patrolmen in the student. faculty and visitors parking lots. The students performing these functions as a result of Macheca 's disciplinary action sup­plement a force of about eight undergraduates who patrol regularly as paid employees of theUniversity. 
The students who have worked for Security as disciplinary punishment did so as an alternative to other punishment. For t•xample, two cases involved students who worked off a financial debt from traffic fines by patrolling the parking lots until that debt was paid in services rendered. 
"It seems like Macheca likes to do it when possible," said one student who was disciplined by patrolling the parking lots. "It seems to be a common thing," said another student who received the same punishment. The students involved seemed to prefer their punishment through Security duties to the alternative punishment. One student commented, "I didn't think it was that bad. It was probably good to have the guys out there <in the parking lots)." 
"I would rather give up a few weekends than pay so much money." another disciplined student concluded. Fines are sometimes implemented as another form of punishment. 
---------------------------------------------------~~ 

-, the observer Wednesday, February 19, 1975 
warld briefs 

KNOXVILLE. Ten. <UPil-JA snake-handling mountain preacher who's trying to bring the Gospel to a local bathhouse said Tuesday if gets a pennit from police he'll evangelize at all of the city's seedy spots_ 
"If I live to get a permit," Ricker said, "They'll hear more from me. I plan to visit them all-beer joints, book stores, theaters." 
J NEW ORI.EANS, <UPll-Two judges of the 5th U.S. Circuit Court ( of Appeals withdrew Tuesday from former Army Lt. William L. j Calley Jr.'s My Lai murder case because of defense challenges to 
j their objectivity. Defense attorneys have asked the court to affirm a district judge's ruling overturning Calley's conviction because of daily negative publicity before his 1971 court-martial. 
an campus taday 

3:30 p.m.--film, "10,000 miles of redness," spons. by center for study of man, wash. hall. 
4:15 p.m.--seminar, "contemporary student concerns" by dr. sheridan mccabe, board room, hay....,...ly center. 
4:30 
p.m.-lecture, "sound, hearing & erchltecturelecoustlcs," by dr. raymond m. brach, rm. 111, nleuwlend sci. hall. 

4:30 
p.m.--lecture, "hormonal control of cell growth", by dr. gordon m. tomkins, galvin life science center eud. 


5 p.m.--vespers, evensong, log chapel. 
7 p.m.--lecture, "advanced medltatlon,farley hall. 
7 p.m.--film, "socrates", little theater. 
7:30 p.m.--lecture, "recent advances In psychology--their meaning for us", part 1, carroll hall. 
8 p.m.--political conference, "presidency," by dr. herbert j. storing of univ. of chicago, architecture aud. 
8 p.m.--perspective series in philosophy, "conceptual change an d moral conflict.'' by alastalr maclntyre, new bio aud. 
8:15 p.m.--concert, ken and frances brugger, harpsichord and dance, lib. aud. 
9 p.m.--meeting, antostal committee, Iafortune ballroom. 
11 p.m.--south quad liturgy, alumni hall, refreshments following. 
HPC focuses on '75-'76 calendar 
by Martha Fanning Staff Reporter 

The HPC meeting held last night in LaFortune focused on the 1975­76 academic calendar released 
.Monday. Other issues discussed were Mardi Gras and the bill to lower the drinking age to 18. 
The main objection to the new calendar was the elimination of the mid-semester break with no in­crease in the Thanksgiving holiday break. 
Student Body President Pat McLaughlin relayed information on the calendar to the council. "The Academic Council is the only one who can change the calendar. From the survey everyone assumed that the Thanksgiving break would be extended," he said. 
McLaughlin went on to say that the number of class days in the two semesters should be close to the same. "If we got a week off at Thanksgiving the first semester would have 68 class days, the second 73 class days," he noted. 
une suggestion from Jerry Hayden, president of Stanford, was that two Saturdays be made class days, the Saturday before Thanksgiving and the one before finals. He proposed that the Monday and Tuesday before Thanksgiving could then be in­cluded in the break. This would keep the number of class days the same. 
There was also a suggestion made by McLaughlin to invite Fr. James Burtchaell, Provost, to the next HPC meeting. 
HPC chairman Bob Howl agreed with this idea ~nd stated, "Fr. Burtchaell will be invited to the next meeting and a letter to the chairman of the Faculty Senate will be sent.'' 
The Mardi Gras was also discussed at the meeting with Dan Sullivan, <lJairman.of the Mardi Gras Committee, present to an­swer any questions and hear suggestions from council mem­
>ers. 

Sullivan, commenting on the 
success of the Mardi Gras stated, 
"This year's was one of the most 
successful ever held if not the most 
successful. The final amount 
grossed by the event was ap­
proximately forty-eight thousand 
dollars, but the net earnings have 
not yet been calculated." 

Sullivan explained that the raffle 
had been a success with 12,500 
tickets sold and approximately 
6000 dollars made. "The quota 
system could have turned out 
better than it did. Next year, the 
committee might be able to find an 
organization so off-campus 
students can sell tickets with a 
lower quota," he said. 

Suggestions from the council 
}j 

Mecha • General Meeting & Reception for all prospective bi-lingual tutors 123 Warren 8 pm Friday Feb 21 corner of 31 & Toll Rd. 
SUPER 

ZARKOV ROCK Wed. 9:00 -1:00 No Cover 
Fri. & Sat. 9:30 -1:30 Beer Nile Mondays 8 -2* ecial Price * 
I 


with special guests 
I 

MAN I I tSATURDAY MARCH 1 8:00p.m. II MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM I 
1 Tickets: $5.50 (advance) 1 $6.50 <day of show) 1
I 
Now on sale at Morris Civic Auditorium and at Boogie Records in I
I 
College Square. Mishawaka 
L-~U.!.!.C!!.!!-~~.!2!-~~~.!.~'1---! 
THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION PROUDLY PRESENTS 



FREEPORT 
In The Bahamas 
For$249 
8 days I 7 nights March 21 28 
Includes 
* 
Round Trip Air Transportation on a DC-9 Leaving from South Bend 

* 
Accomodations *-In Flight Service 

* 
U.S. Departure Ta_x 


Enjoy Swimming, Golf Tennis, or Anything You Want In the Bahamas 
$50 DEPOSIT WITH SIGN-UP 
Sign Up At S.U. Ticket Office 
OPEN TO ALL MEMBERS OF 
N.D. COMMUNITY 


Senior Class has Formal 
by John Feeney Staff Reporter 

The Senior Class will sponsor a Formal dance on March 15 to be held in the Coocord Lexington Ballroom at the H~Jliday Inn in Elkhart, Indiana. 
Two different packages are being offered, one which includes a dinner and dance ticket and another for just the dance. The dance and dinner package offers a roast sirloin beef dinner with wine and a 3-hour open bar, ( 1 hour before dinner and 2 hours after) all for $26.00. Those who attend the dinner will be given a 10lh oz. wine goblet with the following in­scription: "Senior Class Formal ­Isle of Connemara -March 15, 1975". Tickets for just the dance cost $12.00 and include the 2 hour open bar after the dinner. 
"We've contracted a good band from Chicago to play that night," said Joe Henderlong, chairman of the organization committee. "Only seniors are allowed to buy a ticket," he continued, "But people of other classes can accompany them." 
When asked about tran­sportation, Henderlong stated, "Our major source of tran­sportation will be cars, with buses as an outside possibility. Since it is so close we don't anticipate that many problems with tran­sportation." 
A special feature of the ticket packages is a 25 percent discount coupon, redeemable at The Posy Patch for corsages or bouton­nieres, which can be picked up along with the ticket. 
Tickets will be on sale through the end of February at both the North and South Dining Halls, as well as at St. Mary's. Seating arrangements can be made when tickets are picked up. 
of expenses from the Mardi Gras committee, a limit set on the amount of money to be spent on booth construction, and to lower the price of raffle tickets. 
McLaughlin also spoke on House Bill 1818 which would lower the drinking age to 18. 
"Last week the chairman of the House Public Policy Committee was quoted as saying that the bill was dead on arrival. Right now we are trying to get the bill out of the committee and onto the House floor," the SBP stated. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by tM stuoents of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Sub&crlptlons may be purdwtsed for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from "The Observer floi Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postetge paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
Wednesday, February 19, 1975 
the observer 
3 

'Consultive not legislative' 




SLCS role and future discussed 
by Mariano~ Schulte 
Staff Reporter 

On January Zl, Student Body President Pat McLaughlin proposed major revisions in the power and membership of the Student Life Council. The SLC has since involved itself in self­evaluation, in re-assessing its goals and its status in the University community. 
The conception of a student life council at Notre Dame originated body was to be concerned with "certain areas of student life, including but not limited to social and recreational opportunities, residence halls, medical and psychological facilities, disciplinary rules, fairness of University procedure, spiritual and intellectual life and ad­missions and scholarship policy." 
In forming the new tripartite body. the trustees said they hoped that the SLC would "bring to light 
In brief, the SLC was to concern itself with the passing of legislation regarding the problems of the contemporary college campus. This legislation is subject to veto by the president of the University, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, representing the Board of Trustees of the university. 
Especially after Hesburgh's veto of the new sexuality code proposed after considerable debate by the SLC, the contemporary ef-
Observer lnsir,ht 
in a meeting of the Board of Trustees seven years ago in response to student requests for 
reforms  in  a  number  of  areas  
affecting student life.  
At  that  time,  the  trustees  

proposed "new structures" for the adaptation and implementation of appropriate standards of conduct, and approved the principle of ''equal representation of faculty, administration, and students on a legislative University Student Life Council, with a comparable structure for adjudication and review in serious disciplinary measures," as declared in a Statement of Policy on Student Life by the board on May 15, 1968. 
However, it was also provided for in the by-laws of the Student Life Council that actions taken by the tri-partite body exercising legislative or judicial functions "should stand unless the President in good conscience cannot approve them. in which latter event fhe right to appeal to the board may be granted." 
Prior to the establishment of the SLC. there had been no major legislative body containing student representation. The legislative and apply the composite good sense and good will, fairness and generosity of the total ND com­munity." 
They continued to state, "While the Board recognizes the need of the University to adapt itself to a changing world, it is firmly resolved to hold fast to those values that have made Notre Dame an enriching experience, intellectual and spiritual, for so many thousands of her sons." 
With a twenty-four member body consisting of eight members each of administration, faculty, and student factions, it was desired that an adequate representation of the many diverse opinions of the total Notre Dame community would be reflected. 
As was cited in the trustees' statement of Policy on Student Life. "a true community is not one in which everybody agrees with t>verybody else on every subject, but it is one in which the basic purposes of the institution are shart>d and respected by the constituency and in which discussion, and indeed, debate are conducted with mutual respect, tolerance and civility." 
Patterson lectures on Congress and reforms 
b)· Hob Brink 

fragmt>nted body. Patterson 
Staff Rt>portt>r 

defended Congress from these myths arguing, "Congress is not a Dr. Samuel Patterson. Chair­defunct legislature" and that "no 
man and Professor of Political other institution today has half the . Science at the University of Iowa, effectiveness of the legislature inlectured before a modest crowd in soaking up and sterilizing thethe Library Auditorium last night 

wastage produced in society." 
Patterson also spoke against certain attempted reforms of Congress. Some common criticisms of Congress are directed against the independence of congressional committees, party leadership in Congress, the senioritu rule, and rules allowing the filibuster. Patterson men· tioned that these criticisms of Congress are very old and had 
(continued on page 11) 

fectiveness of the council's power 
as a legislative body has been 
questioned. 
Frank Flanagan, student body 
vice-president and current SLC 
chairman stated yesterday that he 
viewed the powers of the SLC as 
limited due to Hesburgh's veto 
power. and regarded the work of 
the council as being "consultative, 
not legislative." 
Dr. Robert Ackerman, Director of Professoonal Development of Student Affairs, pointed out that Hesburgh has always had the right of veto. as provided for in the original by-laws of the council's charter. He emphasized that "if the students are seeking absolute control, they will never acquire it, because no students have absolute control." 
Dr. Phillip Faccenda, University generalcounsel,echoedAckerman in saying that "nothing has changed. The council still maintains the same degree of power it was endowed with in the original by-laws." 
"I'm not aware of any other administrative body on the college level whose decisions are not subject to the president's veto," he added. 
Faccenda cited one problem of the SLC to be the "council had been set up for a different time." At th1! time of its founding, the students had no other officially organized body in which they could openly discuss and debate current problems with administrators. The establishment of the Student Life Council was a major step forward in the area of student­administration communications," he said. 
Ackerman suggested that the seeming loss in potency might be attributed to the fact that students have a variety of other channels of communication open to them today in which they can direct their ef­forts to effect change. "At the time of the SLC formation, these other channels, including student government, were not well organized," Ackerman observed. 
Flanagan stressed that the students must be active to show concern. "Student activism behind the council has subsided," has been lacking in past SLC he said. Faccenda, however, said meetings, according to Flanagan.that he "did not detect any lack of Ackerman, however, does not support in the SLC." 
believe that the size of the council 

Flanagan commented, "I really has had any real impact on its total 
believe that as it now stands there effectiveness. He noted, "There are too many people on the SLC are always at least twenty-one or 
who don't seem to care. They are more representatives present at disillusioned by the amount of time every meeting."it takes to get things done." 
McLaughlin yesterday refused Flanagan also suggested that one 

to comment about the council 

possibility open to attaining "until be had heard what the rest 
increased efficiency is to decrease of the committee had to say."
the current membership size to 
Brother Just Paczesny, Vice­fifteen people as compared to the president for student affairs, and twenty-four presently seated on Fr. James Burtchaell, provost,the council. Flanagan's fifteen 

were unable tor comment on the 

member council would include the situation. 
chairman of the HPC, SBP, SBVP, In final comment, Faccenda one representative from South pointed out, "each year the Council 
Quad, one rep from North Quad, gains prestig~ by pursuing hard 
five the from the administration, questions and coming up with hard and five faculty reps. Attendance answers." 
STUDENT UNION PRESENTS 
TENNESSEE WILLIAMS' 
CAT ON A HOT TIN ROOF 
starring: Paul Newman Elizabeth Taylor Burl lves 

Wednesday Feb. 19 
7, 9, 11 p.m. 

Engineering Aud. Admission: $1 
IN CONCERT 


SEALS & CROFTS 
SUN. MARCH 2 7:30P.M. NOTRE DAME ~~~~~~IC AND CONVOCATION 
TICKET PHICES: .\1.1. Clli\IR TYPE SEA 
$1i.UU 
BI.EACIIERS $5.00 
Tickets now on sale: NOTRE DAME, 
A.C.C. BOX OFFICE 
Mon.-Sat. 9 to 5 
liNION TI<'KET OFFICE 
Robertson's South Bend & Concord Mall 
51. Joseph Bank and branches 
First Bank main office only E I kart Truth 
,.alem 
Singers, musicians,

Search 



dancers, technicians, magicians, banjo players, acrobats, piano players, puppeteers, novelty acts . . . 

it takes all kinds of talent to entertain Cedar Point's 2,500,00d summer guests, and the search is on. So, check the audition schedule, polish up your act and come show us your talent. Technicians, come for an interview with Cedar Point's Live Shows. YOU'LL COME ALIVE IN '751 
AUDITION AND INTERVIEW SCHEDULE 
Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania-Fri., February 28. 1976 Deuoit. Mlch;g.n-Thurs .. March 6. 1976 Carnegie-Mellon University, Student ActNities Center Ponchartrain Hotel, Plaza Room lnterviews-3:00 P.M. Auditions-4:00P.M. lnterviews-3:00 P.M. Auditions-4:00P.M. 
Sandusky. Ohio-Sat.. March 8, 1976 Indianapolis. Indiana-Sun .. March 2. 1975 (Areas East of Sandusky) Stouffer's Indianapolis Inn, Ballroom 
Cedar Point Centennial Theatre '"tt»Views-3:00 P.M. Aud\tions-4:00 P.M. 
lnterviews-10:00 A.M. Auditions-11 :00 A.M 
Sandusky, Ohio-Sun.. March 9. 1975

Cincinnati. Ohio-Tues., March 4, 1975 
(Areas West of Sandusky)

Stouffer's Cincinnati Inn, Bronze Room Cedar Point Centennial Theatre 
lnterviews-4:00 P.M. Auditions-5:00P.M. 
Interviews-10:00 A.M. Auditions-11 :00 A M 

Live Show Dept., Cedar Point, Sandusky, Ohio 44870 

CedarPollM 
ON LAKE ERIE, SANDUSKY, OHIO 
.•. .. ....... ( .f·,' 

DR. SAMUEL Patterson, Chair­man and Professor of Political Science at the University of Iowa, explained the role of Congress in 
MICHIGAN STREET
the balance of power last night in the Library Auditorium. on the misconceptions with which many people regard Congress and about recent attempted reforms of Congress. 

ADULT THEATRES
The purpose of Dr. Patterson's lecture, the second in a four-part series being presented by the Student Union Academic Com­mission, entitled "Separation of Powers in the Wake of 
2 FILMS

Watergate," was to explain the 
role of Congress in the balance of 
power. ; 
* 

Patterson held the news media · largely responsible for many of the myths which many Americans BOOKSTORE 
have towards Congress. He said, ''In reporting about Congress the 
* 

news media often seems to magnify the legislature's weaknesses. So we customarily 
hear a good deal about LIVE FLOOR SHOW 
Congressional monkey business, 
*

but rather little about serious legislative work." 
1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Some common misconceptions about Congress which Patterson mentioned are that congressmen are unethical and that Congress is 
a declining and hopelessly CALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATIO 
I
·I 



We've bee11 had. 

'l, 
When the Academic Council voted on the calendar last Tuesday, their decision was applauded as :1 community effort, a 1riumph \)f input from many diverse areas of the University. 
But it was no such thing. What last Tuesday's decision comes down to is a sham, a con-game pulled by the ad­ministration. By allowing student and faculty bodies of representation to present proposals for the new calendar, the administration did nothing but allow a smokescreen to be formed over the real decision-making that was being done under the Golden Dome. 

Crucial to the deception was the term "extended Thanksgiving break". What that actually came down to was a day off on Friday after Thanksgiving, but no one knew that. The misleading conception 
,. ·.' 

_Wednesday, February 19, 1_975
the observer 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER News: 283-1715 Business: 283-7471
Editorial: 283-8661 
Tom Drape
Fred Graver 
Editor-in-Chief 
Editorial Editor 
AI Rutherford 
Bob McManus 
Managing Editor
Advertising Manager 
Wednesday, February 19. 1975 

The Big Con 
The Placement Bureau is a scene of needless anxiety and competition every Monday morning. If students must stand in line as early as 4:30 a.m. and wait there for three hours until the office opens, something is internally wrong with the present interview sign-up system. 
The new policy, which limits Monday sign-ups to only three interviews a week per student, does not solve any of the real problems facing the Bureau. It does not allow room for many more names o·n the interview schedules as Richard Willemin, director of the Placement
J 
Bureau suggested, but only a select few. But this plan does not nearly come close to giving an equal opportunity forf all registered seniors to sign up for in­
l 
terviews. 
Willemin stated that approximately 1400 students are signed up with the Office. This is about 500 more than previous years. 
I With the increased registration and the 
! 
? large number of interview cancellations (50 as of Feb. 5 and only 7 additions), the Placement Bureau is indeed in an un­fortunate situation. 
Indeed, it is also unfortunate that the c.ffice cannot guarantee equal time for each student. It is unfair to those 
I students who consistently are "closed­, ut" of an interview, especially when 1heir degrees limit them to only a few interviews a week. 
It is disheartening for students who wait in line for an hour or longer only to discover that their names must appear 10'th on a waiting list. 
DOONESBURY 

C'V'ti·~ 
TH& fttJST HrNJI?A!Jl£ TINA SUMS. M!N!SffROF tfhtfcN.I 
Terry Keeney News Editor 
Bob Zogas Business Manager 

had "extended" as meaning the week around Thanksgiving. Even the term "short Thanksgiving break" was misunderstood by students and faculty, who took it to mean Thursday and Friday. 
The deck was stacked, and the dealer was telling no one. What is reprehensible is the manner in which members of the Administration, who were fully aware of the misunderstandings taking place, sat in conferences and meetings without offering the insight and information that could have shed light on the discussions. 
So, it's one more year under a calendar which pleases very few, if any, members of the community. What is even more disturbing is that, for one more year, we will be living with a calendar devised without input from the community. 
Fred Graver 

Placement Problems 
As one student commented, the Placement Bureau must come up with a "better plan." A plan which is more fair and more just. A plan which provides equal opportunity to sign up for all seniors registered. 
One possible solution to the problem is to keep on record the exact number of interviews per person and set a minimum limit, relative to the number of interviews designated for each major, so that each person can be guaranteed at least several interviews. 
This process takes more time and demands more care with records, but it guarantees equal time and opportunity to sign up for each senior registered. 
Another viable solution would be a lottery for those interviews where waiting lists are formed. 
With a lottery system, Monday does not have to be the scene of a mad rush to sign up. Technically sign-up days are Monday through Wednesday, and a lottery can assure orderliness and ease by leaving three days open to sign up for any interview desired. 
The limit of three interviews a week can be maintained with a lottery system. When a senior has been selected for three interviews by lottery, he ought not to be eligible for anymore interviews that week. 
No one system will be acceptable to all students. The lottery like other plans has its flaws, but it appears to be the only fair system available to the Placement Bureau at this crucial time. 
Jeanne Murphy 
THEIIN.M&I~I THANkS, 8088Y ~~ 
7()NY MINISTER OF 51/RFS MARIJUANA ANO IJP, I CE.N1lW-Nae­TRIIST'? ~ SY51tM 

Dpinian 
Co-Ed Dorms:
The 

Hidden Agenda 
fr. bill taaheY 

Sometimes you just have to say, "Hey, wait a minute." You hear a thing said over and over again, and before you know it, it qualifies as a slice of our "conventional wisdom" about which nobody raises a question. Such is the case with the issue of coeducational housing. 
Not so long ago·. tne Scholastic quoted one of our priests as saying that ·'the administration had studied the coeducational dorm situatioll of other schools and concluded that there is no place for them ;It Notre Da:.1tc>." About which someone should politely ask: "What the hell is that supposed to mean?" 
\\!hat's the basis for such a remark? What research, what serious exploration led to such a conclusion? One is forced to question a pronouncement like that, as it becomes clearer all the tinw that eo-ed housing is getting to be a standard optional 
· arrangement at more and more universities. Recently, for l'Xample. at a national gathering of campus chaplains, I was asked b~· those who \\''!re speaking of the positive benefits they saw on their campuses in eo-ed dorms, why Notre Dame seemed to be rlragging her feet so long on this issue. Since eo-ed housing is gaining wide acceptance, not only at non­<'atholic universities. but at numerous Catholic schools, as well, I thought it might prove enlightening to investigate two colleges staffed by the Holy Cross Fathers . I was amazed at how far ahead of us thev are. King's 'college <Wilkes-Barre, Pa. l has a co-ed dorm. with the lowt•r three floors occupied by men and the upper three floors by womPn. Stonehill College <Northeaston. Mass. l has seven co-ed townshouses. and one dormitory housing 120 men and women in the so~alled "salt and pepper" arrangement. I interviewed one of the priests who has been living in a Stonehill < 'ollege townhouse. Here are his comments. "I live in a townhouse that accommodates 12 men and 12 women. The living experience is much better than any I've experienced for college students. There seems to be a great maturing process going on; they seem to gain a rPspect for one another that is not equally possible in a segregated dorm. There is a sense of genuine quiet at those times agreed upon: they share good times together: there is no real hassle at all. From t•verything I've seen.living right with these students, it has bt>en ;1 significant positive influence ... The Director of Campus Ministry at Stonehill. a strong supporter of co-ed housing. as he has observed it at his school. referred me to lhP writings of .JamPS J. Gill. a Jesuit psychiatrist. for an un­dt•rstanding of some of the principles they had found verified at Stonehill. Fr. (;ill criticizes those educators who arbitrarily rule out co-ed housing and thus block interpersonal experiences urgently needed by yo;mg pt>ople (or their full development. "I am not" Gil i-nsists, ·:lalkmg about t•r·otic experiences. Too many adults. including t'Otmtlt•ss pan•nts. reflect the bias of past gPneratiOnsof puritanical dt>rgym(•n in their suspicion that wherever and whenever a young man and a young woman are along together sex will raise its lovdy-ugly head withpPrilousconsequences for one or both of them. "Obviously." Fr. (;ill continues, "this is not to say that sex is not onl' of the ('oncerns of most college-age boys and girls today. But l'layboy IIPfner notwithstanding, it is not the one and only preoc­('Upation Pven among the male members of the typical university's studt•nt body. l\1ale students in the U.S. today spend too little time sharing life closely with a diversity of girls about the same age. ThP result is a failure to discover what women actua[y are. No ~·mmg man knows much about women, even if he is "going steady" with one. as long as he is deprived of prolonged and rather in­timate. informal contact with many. The chance to share dor­mitory living cannot help but reveal to male students that a woman is som!'thing much more than an erotic machine. Until young men have the experience of sharing the daily lives with a variety of young women. Pla~·boy will continue to lead immature males to helieve that if you know one type of woman you've mastered them all. Perhaps. then. one of the greatest benefits of informally shared dormitory life would be the development of a healthy realism regarding the opposite sex, with more successful marriages and increased life-long happiness as the outcome." I also interviewed the priest-rector of the co-ed dorm at Stonehill. "I've found that young men and women iiving together rise above the adolescent behavior that seems so much a part of the one-sex dorm: they cut through the myths and superficiality rather quickly" 
What about Notre Dame? What are the real reasons we are so far behind other schools. even those staffed by the Holy Cross com­mun;~y? Are we to continue postpoining the open and honest t·onsideration of the myths, misconceptions and fears of this question? Can we speak of value-i>riented education when we don't Pven initiate genuine community-wide discussion of the topic? 
For Pxample, the staff of Grace hall offered a proposal last DPcember for a a one-year experiment in co-ed housing for their dorm. It came as the result of a lot of serious reflection and careful analysis. and was an eminently reasonable plan. What happened to it? How come it never surfaced for community consideration? ('orne to think of it. does anyone even care? 
Trudeau 
the observer 
Night Editor: Rick Blower 
Ass't Night Editor: Ginny Faust 
Layout: Martha Fanning 
Copy Reader: Ken Bradford 
Day Editor: Ken Girouard Features: J. Robert Baker Editorials: John Amanter, Fred Graver 
Sports: Greg Corgan, Bob Kissel 
Typists: D. Roos, Tom Modglin, Jim 
Landis, Mary Ann Corr 
Compugraphic: Phil Orscheln Picture Screener: Albert D' Antonio Night Controller: Rick Huber 
. :: 


the observer Wednesday, February 19, 1975 
Hired in 1973 



Women officers complement security force 

by Jl.'anne Murphy Copy Editor 
The Twentieth Century has been an age of in­dependence and liberation lor many women. They have invaded traditionally male'i>riented spheres in business. professions, education, and most recently, arease in police work, security and public protection. 
Micky Hess and Doris Stombaugh are the first two women who have broken through the doors of the Notre Dame Security Force, formally an all-male organization. As officers they have worked on the Force since the spring of 1973. 
The hiring of these two women as securityofficers had no correlation to the advent of coedUcation at Notre Dame. commented Dean of Students John l\lacheca. "Yet they do fulfill specific needs by virtue of their being women." he continued. They are able to respond to the particular needs of the women students. 
Director of Security Arthur Pears agreed with l\lacheca that coeducation ha~ not been the sole reason for hiring the women. 
"When you've got girls that we have on campus, we reel we should have a girlso that they can talk girl-to­girl." he said. The women security officers do the same duties as the men because they are required by law (Equal Opportunity Employment laws). Pears stated that the women are used especially to handle "assault problems." 
"We try to have women officers interview them <the assault victims). A girl can talk to a girl more Pasily than a man and often with a result of getting more information." 
"Incidents come up weekly where we have women patrolmen take over an investigation." 
\\'onll'n Meet Requirements 
According to Macheca the requirements for becoming a security officer are strict for both men and women applicants. "We hire the best people we can. It is anasset for the person to have a college degree and l'ollege t•xperience," he said. 
"As in the case of the two women officers, wefelt that 
they had very good qualities in academics and an in­
terest and willingness to do this kind of work," he 
('Ontinued. 

"We have tried toget girls with a college education in social work. sociology or ciminology," Pears com­mt-nted. Women who work the desks have at least high school t>ducation and the evening hall monitors are married women with high school educations. 
"Wt> reel that the women have a little different set­upthan the men do. It just happened that when we had an opening we've had girls with college educations apply." 
Hess graduated from Indiana University in August 1973 with a BA degree in Sociology anda minor in Law Enforcemt>nt and has studied theory and policeprocedure. 


Kovatch, Pears direct security departments 
by Patty Coonl.'y Contributing Editor 

The St. Mary's Security force, comprised of fifteen people,provides twenty-four hour protection for the students. "Our job is to protect the students <and Faculty) from strangers and from assaults. Students should be able to feel safe walking around here and not have to worry about getting attacked," stated AnthonyKovatch, director of St. Mary'ssecurity. 
Starting at 4:00 p.m., two security men go on "lock up" patrol, securing various entrances to the campus buildings. After "lock up" is completed the two men keep surveillance from the patrol cars. During the weekends there is a third man on patrol at night; he patrols on foot or as an addition in one of the cars. A student dispatcher, located at security headquarters keeps in 


She termed her role as a security officer as "a utilityperson." "I do a little bit of everything. I drive the cars. man the gates. substitute as dispatcher, and answer calls, mostly those concerning the girls on campus.'' she commented. 
"I alsogive my share of tickets and walk the beat," she continued. 
Doris Stombaugh is the first woman dispatcher on the Security Force. Her job is restricted to the office where she mans the radio,telephone and com­munications to the groundmen all around the r.amous. 
All complaints and emergencycalls around campus are first received by Stombaugh and then relayed to various officers on the beat. "We are working verywt>llwhen we receive on the average one emergency a wt•ek." she explained. "Only cases involving broken hones or serious hospital trips are considered real t•mt-rgencies." 
The requirements for 
becoming a security officer are strict for both men and women applicants 
"Probably the most exciting emergency call we received was last year when a man fell into the lake," she stated. "Other security and police departments l'ame in from town to help on this case." 

At St. Mary's 

contact with the two cars at all times. 
Security inside the dorms at night is the responsibility of the night hall director. "If a situation arises where we are needed, the hall director must accompany us into the living quarters," noted Kovatch. 
"Our main problem at night is keeping all the doors and basement windows secured, so that strangers don't get in," explained Mrs. Pauline Grummell, night director of LeMans Hall. "There was an incident several months ago when a man gained access to the building, went upstairs, and passed out in one of the rooms," reported Grummell. "Ever since this incident the basement win­dows have been sealed shut," she continued. "And we constantly remind the girls to lock their doors." she said. 
"LeMans Hall poses a special problem the other residence halls don't. since people pass through there all day long," observed Kovatch. "The administrative offices and college bookstore are located on the lower levels of LeMans, so we do come in there to check several times during the night," Kovatch asserted. 
"I would say however. that our biggest problem here is traffic, with all the coexchange students and different people who do business here," commented Kovatch. "It's very hard to keep track of people coming onto the campus," he added. 
The construction of a guar­dhouse at the entrance of the main road has been suggested. "We are not worried about the Notre Dame students, because they usually have a reason for coming here and are easily recognized, by their decals and parking stickers," said Kovatch. "What we're concerned about is people who have no business being here and who may cause harm to one of our people," he continued. 
"At present there is no gate at the entrance to St. Mary's, because we don't have off-campus parking facilities, as they do over at Notre Dame," explained Kovatch. "The main parking facility is adjacent to LeMans Hall and it would be im­practical to check people using it now," he continued. 
In the event of a guardhouse being installed each road into St. Mary's would be converted for one­way traffic with Douglas Road the exit. "In the future we would like the parking facilities in close proximity to the new guardhouse," commented Kovatch. 
Three sites have been suggested for the new parking facility: the field just south of Madeleva, the area north of McCandless, or the area behind the Camous School. 
The security department in­stituted a service last year to pick up St. Mary's students stranded over at Notre Dame, after the shuttle bus stopped. "We don't want them walking down the road alone at night," stated Kovatch. 
"Since we initiated the service of picking our girls up who have missed the last shuttle bus at night, we have averaged two calls a night," noted Kovatch. The ser­vice was initated in the Spring Semester of 1974. "The girls are real good about it and don't abuse the service, and I feel that it is a good preventive measure," he added. 
Mickey Hess (standing) 
and Doris Stombaugh 
are the first women to 
be hired by the Notre 
Dame security 
department. The 
women security officers 
do the same duties as 
the men. 

"They are patent assets to the Force," Macheca commented. "They have provento begood workers." Not only do they serve their predicated functions, but they are also helpful in the security problems which have arisen as an outgrowth of women living and studying on the campus, he explained. 
Last year Hess presented a program entitled ''Ladies Take Warning." The lecture, which was given in each of the women's dorms include a film on safety precautions and tips on what todo in case of attack or danger. She hopes to present another project of this sort in the spring, the purpose is to make the women at Notre Dame aware of potential hazards on campus. 
Hess explained her experiences as the first woman police officer on the Notre Dame campus as "different, quite different and abnormal -a female officer on a predominately male campus!" 
"Our basic problem is the young juveniles who hang around campus," she stated. "They are usually harder to handle than most of the ND students, in­cluding the male students." 
As far as Macheca knows, the two women officers have experienced no conflicts with other men officers or with students based on the fact that they are women. 
"I usually walk the beat and cover the calls alone, but when a serious problem arises, the whole Force is alerted." Hess stated. 
Other than her regular daily routines of reading the reports and covering calls, Hess works at theACC for special events, .concerts, etcetera. 
Macheca believes that through outside activities and achievements, these women ·bring_ to ND other resources and assets than just fulfilling their specific job as security officers. For example, Hess is a mt>mber of the volunteer SOS program and a member of the International Association for Women Police. 

At Notre Dame 
b~· 1\l;u·~· .Janca St. 1\laJ·~ 's Editor 

Since Arthur Pears became Director of Security at Notre Dame slightly more than ten years ago, Notre Dame has watched its Security force grow in numbers, expand its services and move to larger quarters. 
Security currently employs approximately 50 people as grounds patrolmen, guards, hall monitors, secretaries, clerks, dispatchers and those functioning as full-fledged police officers, said Pears. 
The Director sees his primary duty as head of Security as one of "supervising the Security Department, which is charged with the responsibility of protection of life and property on campus, for students, racultyand staff." 
Under his direction, the gate system was organized. "The principle of the gate system is to control the numbers of vehicles that are on campus, and not to keep people out. The roads are not much more than wide sidewalks. For this reason and because of the layout of the campus, Notre Dame is a walking campus," he stated. 
The director noted that there were no major differences in Security or their procedures since the advent of coeducation three years ago. 
"The only change made is that instead of having male hall monitors in each of the dorms, we have female hall monitors in Pach of the women's halls," Pears said. 
Prior to serving in his present position, Pears worked for the Niles, Michigan Police Depart­ment for 30 years, serving for 15 of those years as Chief of Police. Before that. he was a member of the Military Intelligence Division of the armed forces and he is also a graduate of the FBI National Academy. 
The present Security Director, in addition to his local police service. has been president of a number of crime-fighting related organizations. Among these are: the Michigan Association of Chiefs of Police, the FBI National Academy. Michigan Chapter, the Southwestern Michigan Law Enforcement Association, and the Tri-County Chiefs of Police Association.





6 the observer Wednesday, Febr"a 19, 1975 
Security Ioree--not a police Ioree 
by Terry Keeney John Macheca, dean of students, sees the security According to Pears, the use of these weapons is News Editor force as playing a different "dual role" in the sense of severely limited to protection of the security guard preserving the campus from within and without. himself from persons outside the community. They 
The guard at the Main Gate looks and dresses like an "They protect the community from people from \\<OUld not be used against students and should be used ordinary policeman. He writes tickets for parking and outside in terms of theft, crime, vandalism, assault," for the purpose of apprehension of persons commiting moving violations, just like the traffic cop. He walks a Macheca said. "Within the community they have to be criminal acts. beat across campus like the old-fashioned beat responsible for maintaining order and they are often "We seldom have to use force, except if it is against patrolman. called upon to meet security needs of individuals in the an outsider," Pears said. 
Yet the guard in uniform is not a police officer but a community." In the past security has used mace ·to calm students member of the Notre Dame security force. Yet, in for the protection of the security guard. However, many ways he functions as the policeman of the Notre Traffic control not priority Pears noted that mace has not been used against
' ' Dame community ... and then some. The function of the students this year. Security Department differs from a police force in the The ordinary duties of the security force include
'~~~ 
services it provides and its relation to those it serves. traffic functions that civil police perform -controlling If a security guard were to abuse a student or mis­
access to campus, giving tickets for parking and use the weapons available, he can face disciplinaryUnlike a police force, the security department is not 
moving violations. action.
responsible to taxpayers of a state or locality. Security Pears contends that the traffic function is an integral "When there is a severe situation, one of theis technically responsible to the dean of students, under 
'' part of the protection of campus property. "We've got measures is to suspend the officer without pay,"
the authority of the vice president for student affairs. 
an open campus that anybody can walk onto," Pears Paczesny said.

I' "We work for a private institution," said Arthur said. "You've got to protect from the outside.' Paczesny stated that such disciplinary action hasPears, director of security. "The property does not Brother Just Paczesny, vice-president for student been instituted "whenever it has been proven to us thatbelong to any one owner. In comparison the city of affairs, under whom the security department operates, an officer might have acted intemperately. ·It shouldSouth Bnd belongs to the general public." 
compared Notre Dame to a city. not be necessary for an officer to use the most drastic Pears sees his security force as responsible to the "We area big city," Paczesny said. "You're talking measures," Paczesny continued .• 
entire University community. It must fulfill a dual role 
I I about 6000 people who live in the confines of this When asked if the disciplinary action against such
of policeman and security guard. 
campus." officers for abuses has ever been used, Pears denied
The police role entails directing traffic, giving To keep the campus open for students, faculty and that officers had ever been so disciplined.
tickets and protecting the life and property of the administrators, traffic must be controlled, he noted. 
' community. The security function, Pears explained, is
I "Traffic is a major problem around here," Paczesny Enforce university rules and civil laws
•/... the task of locking and checking the security of campus 
said. This is basically a pedestrian campus. 
biuildings. 

J 
So any traffic we have has always As policemen for the University, the security caused problems." department must enforce the rules and regulations of Macheca noted that the traffic comtrol is an the University. It also must enforce criminal acts 
important function for keeping campus order. committed on campus. 
f 
'When you get a ticket, you don't see it as a The rules and regulations range from parietals to the 

Security Interview 
problem of order. You don't see where you drinking rules. Security has the limited role in are causing a problem," Macheca said. "You violations of University rules to turn the case over to 
have to have traffic rules and regulations so the dean of students. .. Craig Fisher is a graduate MBA student. He works part time, 
you can maintain a reasonable accomodation "We try to discipline those persons in violation of sually at night, for the Security Department. His duties as a desk 
of people who bring autos to campus," parietal hours by reporting the incident to the RA or ricer include manning the radio, answering telephone calls and 
Macheca said. recgor," Pears said. "Those people we catch with oing paperwork. 
Pears cited the 15-minute pass granted to excessive violations like traffic violations or drugs we students who want to get on cam puss. "We've report to the dean of students." 
q: How many people do you have on the grounds at night? 
put out in the last two years about 100,000 15-Macheca noted that typical security involvement in 
a: From eleven till about three, there are three men walking the 
minute passes for people to come on cam­enforcing rules would entail a security guard stopping rounds, checking to see that all the doors are locked, that everything 
pus," Pears said. a student carrying alcoholic beverages on campus. s secure. There's also two cars out. Mter three, we cut back and have 
The guard would "confront" the student, ask for the ne or two men on the grounds and one in a car. 
Use of weapons student's identification and if the student is not of age, 
q: Ifsomething happened and an officer had to get to the scene, how 
report him to the dean of students. ast could one of the men on the grounds or in the car get to the scene? 
Like regular police, Notre Dame security Security must also become involved in violations of 
a: They can get there in about five or ten minutes. If the call is 
guards are equipped with a variety of University rules when those violations are also crimes. rgent, they can get there in three minutes or so. 
weaponry. Three guards are authorized to "When things happen on campus that. are crimes, an 
q: What would you consider urgent, since you dispatch the men on 
carry revolvers. Other patrolmen carry night investigation has to ensue," Macheca said. ''They e grounds from the radio and you'd make the decisions. 
sticks, blackjacks and mace. have to be handled with professional technique." 
a: <Pause) I can't really think of anything that's that urgent. 
q: What do you do after three? 
a: After three, nobody does much of anything. The night shift's the 
uietest of all. I usually study, walk around the office. I do some book­y.ork, some· typing. Mostly security reports. Some of the reports are pretty strange; some of the guys aren't very articulate, so you get some pretty strange accounts of what goes on. 
Most of the guys are really old or really young. They don't pay much. Between $2.10 and $4.00, I suppose. There are some student­s,somepeople from Indiana University at South Bend <Tim is one of these), there are three South Bend Police Officers who work part time. 
The full time people aremostly people who couldn't find another job. The older ones were retired, or have left their job for some reason and come here. The younger, ones are waiting to find something else. 
q: What feeling do you have when you're wearing your uniform? 
a : <He smiles, pulls his shoulders back, thrusts his chest out> Oh, wow. It's like a John Wayne image. People really tend to notice you, you really stick out. One time, after I had been working for about seven days straight, I was walking around campus and things seemed really different to me, pretty odd, funny. Then I realized that I wasn't wearing my uniform·. It's that kind of thing. 
q: What are your thoughts on ticketing cars? 
a: Personally, I hate to do it. I'm a student and I know what a pain it is to get a ticket. Two times out of three it's the day crew that gives out 
TIM SCOTT, NO Security guard, here tickets another car illegally parked by the Old Fieldhouse. the tickets,so I'm not usually pressed to do it at night. Cars that get 
Security gives out an average of more than 10,000 parking tickets each year. five tickets or so get towed away to John's Texaco down on Thirty-One. There's a checklist in the office. Sergeant Nova does the towing. I think that perhaps he's sort of indiscriminate inthe way he does it. 

Background research require-a 
q: What other things are there that you'd like to comment on? 
a: Well, the gate is a big thing in a lot of student's minds. I can see that they can't let everybody and his brother on cmapus, but I think that they're a little too strict. 

for all security force apPlicants 
The gate itself gets broken off about twice a month. They just keep by Jim Eder suited for the type of work they are academy for a 12-to-14 weekputting it back. Everytime it gets broken, the guys who do it call up Contributing Editor expected to perform. training program, but the cost isand say "Roses are red, violets ar blue, we've got the gate, so f---. 
"We try to place younger men in just too high,'' Pears stated. "Ouryou." It's pretty funny. 
The Notre Dame security force, the roles that may involve physical turnover rate is quite large, and
t 
q: What do you think of St. Mary's Security? 
comprised of approximately 50 contact with people. We don't have we'd just be paying to have people a: A lot of this is personal opinion. I think that they can't leave well members, fills its positions men much over 45 walking the trained to go somewhere else," he enough alone. They have a really suspicious character, minor things through the University's personnel campus on security check, for explained.
bother them. I guess because the school is small they have nothing 
f 
office. These positions include example," Pears said. "We use The high turnover of securitybetter to do. They get bothered when a car goes through without 
uniformed officers, hall monitors, older men for steady, reliable officers can be attributed to theirlot patrollers, lifeguards and office routine work, such as working the betteroneheadlight out. And they had that mace incident last semester finding opportunities
I 
personnel.

curing one of the panty raids. They're older and more crotchety. 
gates," he continued. elsewhere, according to Pears. 
q: 1How many of the security people carry guns? 
Security Director Arthur Pears In order to qualify for the Notre "They can make better money
'{t 
interviews all applicants for the Dame secuirity force, a person working for a police force
a: Well, there are three registered gun handlers on the force, and the South Bend police. I know that there's a locker in the office with 
I ·' 
uniformed officer posts and runs must have a leas~ a 12th grade private company,'' he said. or 
an extensive search into their· education. "We have many people All security personnel at Notre
I 
rifles and shotguns and stuff, but I don't know where it is. 
backgrounds before hiring.

: q: How often do you receive orders from Pears, and how often does with bachelor degrees and have Dame are paid hourly wages. The
I 
had people with masters,'~ Pears scale ranges from $2.25 to $4.30 perhe get orders from someone outside of the Department? 
Hiring qualifications said.
r 
r 
hour. people going in and out of the dorms. Once in a while, we get some sort 
a: Well, last year we did Macheca's dirty work and counted the "We check into each man's
l 
High turnover limits training Using more studentsof word from on high, but it usually has to do with really minor \things criminal record, financial position, ~ike watching for alcohol at the gates and stuff like that. 
personal habits and moral stan­Most of the training of Notre ''As a result of our high turnover,I don't know if this qualifies as an order, but I was once told not to ding," explained Pears: "We also, Dame security officers, after they we are using more students all the talk to the Observer, that they had to go through Pears for everything. 

of course,look for a man with some have been hired, is conducted on time,'' Pears said. Graduate

I 
q: Overall, how would you rate the Security Department? 
experience in security or police 

the job. The Security Office students are used as uniformeda: They do a pretty decent job with what they have to work with. 
i 
work," he said. 
provides slides, tapes, lectures and officers, and undergraduates areThey're useful in a lot of areas, but I wish that they were a little less There are no strict age limits 
' procedure manuals that new used as desk clerks, lot patrollers
!Strict about some thin~s. 

used in hiring persons for the Notre employees are required to use. and life guards.
.,....______________,! 
Dame security force, but Pears "We would like to send all our One of the criteria used in hiring 

I tries to select applicants who are new men to the South Bend Police (continued on page 7) 
~­
' 

... 

•Wednuday, Feb!uary 19, 1975 the observer 
7 

Most are satisfied 


Students evaluate security 
by Jim Eder Nearly two-thirds of the Notre Dame students polled Contributing Editor ..;tated that they had been prohibited from bringing a car on campus when they felt they had good reason to. 
Most Notre Dame and St.Mary's students seem to Moreover, 79 percent felt that the 15-minute pass is feel that the two campus security forces are doing an inadequate, and many commented that the pass is not adequate job of protecting life and property on cam­given often enough. pus. However, those who have been victimized by crime and have turned to security for help express Difficulty in receiving special services significant dissatisfaction with security's per­formance. The Notre Dame and St. Mary's security forces both 
offer an emergency transportation service to the Most students satisfied hospital and infirmary for all students, and a nightime escort service for women students. The survey, 
Slightly more than half of the 273 Notre Dame however, shows that a number of students have ex­students polled in a survey conducted last weekend perienced difficulty in receiving these services when described security's performance as "fair." 27 per­they requested them. centrated security as "good", and 20 per cent said it is Twenty-six percent of the Notre Dame students and "poOr." 29 percent of the St. Mary's students polled said they 
Three-fourths of the students polled at both schools had problems receiving emergency transportation said that they would turn to security for help if they when they requested it. were victims of a crime. However, those students who Forty-three percent of the Notre Dame women polled have already turned to security for help did not show stated that they had difficulty receiving escort servjce much confidence in security's ability to handle the when they needed it. However, only 26 percent of the situation. St. Mary's students surveyed said they had problems 
getting a security escort at night. Strong criticism from victims Students rank priorities 
Sixty-Qne percent of the Notre Dame victims polled An overwhelming majority of the students polled at described security's handling of their cases as "poor." both schools said that the protection of personal life Only 10 percent of those who have turned to security 
and property· should be given the highest priority by before described security's performance as "good," campus security. The enforcement of traffic 
and 20 percent described it as "fair." regulations was ranked last, although by different Furthermore, 45 percent of those Notre Dame marl!ins at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. students polled who have turned to security in the past 
Fifty-five percent of the Notre Dame students polled stated that they would not turn to security again. 
thought the enforcement of traffic regulations shouldThe statistics compiled at St. Mary's are no less be given the least priority by security. 41 percent saiddisturbing. Although 77 percent of the students polled the enforcement of university rules should come last.
said they would turn to security for help if they were Notre Dame securitv is under the Office of Studentvictimized by crime, 67 percent of the former victims Affairs and is responsible for carrying out directivespolled stated that they would not turn to security again. 
from the dean of students.
Half of all the victims surveyed described St. Mary's security's handling of the situations as "poor." Half Seventy-two percent of the St. Mary's students riescribed security's performance as "fair," and none surveyed thought the enforcement of traffic said it was "good." regulations should be given the least priority by 
security. 23 percent said the enforcement of college Dissatisfaction with traffic regulation rules should come last. St. Mary's security also works .. closely with its Office of Student Affairs . 
Students at both schools expressed great dissatisfaction with security's. regulation of parking Indifferent attitudes and traffic. 90 percent of the Notre Dame students.... Most of the students polled on both campuses polled who had received a parking ticket felt the ticket described their attitude toward campus security of­was not justified. 94 percent of the St. Mary's violators ficers as "indifferent." Only 7 percent of all those polled felt their tickets were not justified. surveyed considered themselves "unfriendly" toward 
Of the Notre Dame students who felt their tickets security officers, and 34 percent said they are were not justified, 15 percent paid the fine, 40 percent "friendly." appealed the ticket, and 44 percent disregarded the Similarly, most of the students polled described the ticket. 82 percent of the St. Mary's students polled general attitude of campus security officers toward appealed their tickets, and 18 percent disregarded students as "indifferent." 25 percent of the Notre them. Dame students surveyed said the officers are 
Both schools add the fine to the account of a student "friendly," and 16 percent said they are "unfriendly." who disregards a ticket. Consequently, disregarding a 32 percent of the St. Mary's students polled described ticket simply postpones payment of the fine until the the officers there as "friendly," and 22 percent said following semester. they are "unfriendly." 
Graduate students widely used 
Most from law school or MBA program 
(continued from page 6) responsibilities include lock-upgraduate students as security and fire checks, patrol duties and officers is their field of study. bike rack checks. Two cars are on "Most are taken from either the patrol at all times. law school or MBA program here. St. Mary's security is under the We feel these areas are most Office of Fiscal Affairs and works closely related to the type of work closely with the Office of Student we do," Pears said. Affairs. Notre Dame security
Another usual requirement is works under the Student Affairs financial need. "Applications are Office and is responsible for filed in the early spring, and then carrying out any directive from we work with the deans of their the dean of students as well as for respective colleges to determine protecting life and property on what type of persons the applicants campus. are and whether they need financial assistance for their SMC hiring and training education,"' Pears said. "I'd rather see someone get the job who The process used for hiring really needs the money," he ex­personnel for the St. Mary's plained. security force is similar to that 

Lifeguards are hired on their used at Notre Dame. Applicants qualifications alone, Pears stated. are interviewed by SecurityAll lifeguards must hold First Aid Director Anthony Kovatch. He Life Saving Cards and are tested submits his recommendation to the by Bro. Louis Hurcik, director of vice president for fiscal affairs, the swimming program. who makes the final decision with 
the personnel director. 

St. Mary's security is presentlyComparing ND security As at Notre Dame, an extensive considering employing more
check is run into the background of 
students to help with routinePears said that it is too difficult each applicant. Persons between security matters.
t6 compare the security program the a~es of 30 and 50 with ex­"It's only in the planning stages at Notre Dame with that of other perience in police or security work now, but we are considering hiring schools. "Each school has a dif­are preferred. A high school more girls to help with parking and ferent situation," he explained. education or its equivalent is locking and checking dorms,""Michigan State, for example, required, according to Kovatch. 
Kovatch stated.
offers a major in police ad­The training procedure for new "The number of girls is unknown ministration from which they ge~ employees used by the St. Mary's yet," he continued "Those whomost of their personnel. At Yale security force is also similar to need financial aid would probablyall the security officers must be Notre Dame's. All training is done be hired. Ideally they would besworn in as members of the city's on the job. 
equipped with uniforms and<New Haven, Conn.) police New St. Mary's officers go badges for more authority."
department," he said. through a two-week orientation Kovatch explained that the ideaPears did, however, point out program working with established for such a group came fromthat Notre Dame's program is officers. The new personnel are Eastern Kentucky Universitycomparable to St. Mary's. familiarized with the campus which recently established an all­St. Mary's security force has 15 layout, operation of the SMC female security group called "The members, including7 students who security system and techniques for Rookies" to help direct traffic and work part-time. Their primacy handling people. 
locate stolen bicycles. 
Observer survey of security Ioree 
1. How would you evaluate the performance of the campus security force in protecting life and property on campus? 
j Good ; 1 FAIR )POOR ND I27 per cent 53 per cent I 20 per cent SMC 16 per cent 57 per cent • 27 per cent 
. i 
2. Have you ever turned to security for help as a victim of a crime? 
1 Yes I NO ND 11 per cent 89 per cent SMC 14 oer cent i 86 per cent 
If so, how would you evaluate their handling of the situation? 
GOOD FAIR 1 POOR ND 10 per cent 29 per cent 61 per cent SMC 0 per cent 50 per cent 50 per cent 
3. If you were a victim of a crime would you turn to security for help? 
NO. ND 75 per cent 25 per cent SMC 77 per cent 23 per cent 
YES 

4. Have you ever taken advantage ofeitherot the following services offered by security? 
a. emergency trasportation ( i.e. to hospital or in­firmary) 
YES NO ND 19 per cent 81 per cent SMC 12 per cent 88 per cent 
b. escort service <applies to women only) 
YES 1NO ND 3 per cent . 97 per cent SMC 34 per cent 66 per cent 
5. If you ever requested either of the following ser­vices, did you have problems receiving it? 
a.  emergency transportation  
YES  NO  
ND  26 per cent  74 per cent  
SMC  29 per cent  ( 71 per cent  

b. escort service< applies to women only> YES NO 
ND 43 per cent 57 per cent SMC 26 per cent 74 per cent 
6. How would you describe your attitude toward campus security officers? 
FRIENDLY INDIFFERENT UNFRIENDLY ND 34• ~ per cent 58'" per cent 7 per cent SMC 34 per cent 59 percent 7 per cent 
7. How would you describe the general attitude of campus security officers toward students? 
FRIENDLY INDIFFERENT UNFRIENDLY ND 25 per cent 59 per cent 16 per cent 
1

SMC 32 per cent 46 per .cent 22 per cent 
8. Have you ever recieved a ticket for a parking violation? 
YES NO ND 22 per cent 78 per cent SMC 41 per cent. 59 per cent 
Ifso, do you feel the ticket was justified? 
YES NO ND 10 per cent 90 per cent SMC 6 per cent 94 per cent 
If you felt the ticket was not justified, how did you react? 
a. paid the fine 
ND 15 per cent 
SMC 0 per cent 
b. appealed the ticket 
ND 40 per cent 
SMC 82 per cent 
c. disregarded the ticket 
ND 44 per cent 
SMC 1 18 oer cent 
9. Have you ever been prohibited from bringing a car on campus when you felt you had good reason to? 
. YES 1NO ND 62 per cent 138 per cent Do you feel that the 15-minute pass is adequate? 
1YES jNO ND i 21 per cept 179 oer cent 
10. What do you think the priorities of the security force should be? 
I 

ND  SMC  
a.  enforcement of University rules  112  2 per cent  
b.  enforcement of traffic regulations  F··  o per cmt  
c.  protection of University property  10  2 per cmt  
d.  proleocti.on of personal-life and propertl. 87-­ 95 .per .an&  






A 24 hour security force lor a 24 hour day 
Day and night patrolling 
by AI Rutherford Managing Editor 
Notre Dc.me didn't always have a security force. But then again, Notre Dame didn't always have over 7600 cars to register and patrol; didn't always have 8800 students to protect; and didn't always have over 1000 acres to patrol, night and day. In fact, back in 1868. the only guard was at the only gate existing at that time. It was here that one of the brothers would stay in what was called the Porter's house and greet the incoming wagons. 
Back in 1!!66, the security department was located in ;·oom 115 in the Administration Building. At that time, the office was open only I'rom 7a.m .. to 10 p.m. There was no foot patrolling of the campus, no radio communication, no motor patrol. and no patrolling of theparking lots for the faculty and staff members. There was, however. someone to greet you at the gate. 
Things have changed greatly since those times, both 1868 and 1966. The office, now located next to the fire house, is open 24 hours a day. And the uniformed officers are on constant patrol 24 hours a day. Motor patrolls now made possible through tt.!_e use of three ears. And communication with both the foot and motor patrols is maintained constantly through the use of the latest radio equip­ment. 
The planned operating budget for the department during the 1974­
i:i school year is $362,635.00, a figure which is made up of 85 per cent for wages. Under the direction .of Arthur Pears, the department has increased its role as part of the Notre Dame community. 



\n t'l'~istration bt'fon> 
l't>ars 1 ecalls about his first years at Notre Dame noting that 'there few traffic tickets and little registration to speak of'. "The only registration that was done before students were allowed to have l'ars was the faculty and staff. And this was done only Pvery three or four years." 
Before SPptember, 1968, only off-campus students wpre allowed to have cars while attending school. In that year. the ban was dropped to allow all seniors to have a vehicle at school. The following year. the rule was altered to include .iunion•. Now. everyone except freshmen are 

Citations issued 
:\o. of tickets for no decals  ;),235  fi.438  
taculty violations  2116  
staff violatiOns  ;)02  fi62  
student violations  :!.407  3,318  
teaching assistant violations  18  23  

IIIIIIIIIIHIHIHIIIIHIHIIIIHIHIHIUIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIP!IIIIIIIPIIIIIHIIIHIIIII authorities," stressed Pears, "With their help, we
Supplement Staff h_ave established definite proc~dures to handle 
f1res. bomb threats, and burglar1es." Supplement Editor: AI Rutherford Other duties handled by the security department Staff: Terry Ket~ney, Jeanne Murphy, Mary Janca, include the providing of lifeguards, at St. Joe Beach Pattie Cooney, Jim Eder, Fred Graver and registering those who swim there; providing Photographer: Paul Joyce security for all events. social and athletic; and the 
providing of foot escorts when requested. 
allowed to have a car. All cars must be registered at the beginning of the year at which time a $25.00 registration fee is required. The fee is used to help meet the cost of maintaining the parking lots. 
Pa•·king lot patrols For the last four years, it has become in­neasingly common to see parking lot patrols. The patrols are increased on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday nights since these are the times when most of the damages occur. Many of the patrolmen used on the weekends are graduate and undergraduate students. Much has changed in the use of hall monitors. Tl•n years ago, hall monitors assisted the rectors in bed checks. Halls were locked up starting at 10 p.m. and the time that one had to be in depended on his status as a student <freshmen, sophmore, etc.). Now the monitor's job encompasses just fhecking for fires and keeping an eye on the vending machines to thwart would-be burglars. The monitors are both male and female, depending on the hall. and they are often grad students. 
lhuulle emergencies The security department used to have all t-mergencies handled by the county police. Now they are all taken care ot by the security force including the transporting of the ill to the in­firmary. and then to a hospital if necessary. "We still have a close co-operation with the local 
Incidents reported to Notre Dame securitJ 
Complaints 
Damage to: personal property University property 
Fire runs Medical emergencies Bike thefts Theft: 
personal 

University Breaking and entering with intent to commit larceny Assaults Lights reported out 
1969  1973  
2,153  2,148  
96 56 59 ~51 104  54 90 85 17!1 290  
337 102  201 71  
135 21 707  241 7 1264.  

... 

WednesdaY. February 19, 1975 the observer 
11 

Wednesday, February 19, 1975 the observer 
9 

medea in all her fierce complexity 
And tht>rt' he (Jason> left ht>r, childing and forsakt>n:: For those deceits he's sentenced to tht>St' woes. And for Medt'a too revengt' is takt'n. 
Canto XVIII of L'Inferno Dante's Divine Commedy 
When the ND-SMC Theatre opens their production of Medea this Thursday night, the cast and crew will be facing two challenging problems, the handling of which may well determine the show's success or failure: the use of an adaptation written to be a "one woman show", and the utilization of an intimate arena theatre. 
Robinson Jeffers' adaptation of Euripides' tragedy preserves the essence of the original drama. while translating its language into modern free verse. The striking poetry of Jeffer's work was first heard in a 1947 New York production in which Judith Anderson played the title role. While this production was a tour de force of Ms. Anderson's acting skills, to the point of her manipulating and overshadowing the other characters, the ND-SMC production w;ll have a different focus. According to Prof. Syburg, Associate Professor of Speech and Drama and director of the play, em­phasis will be placed on the unique, in­teresting situation of each character, thus taking them out of Medea's obscurring shadow. Medea herself will not be played as a monster--an interpretation which Prof. Syburg sees as leading towards melodrama, rather than tragedy--but rather as a human being. in all her fierce complexity. This humanness in Medea should in tuin em­phasize her relationships, and thus, the eharacters with whom she inter-relates. 
While Euripides' characters were originally portrayed by formally masked 

a preview by Iaureen goers 
by J. Matthew McKenzie, the Tutor by Rich Remley, and the Second and Third Women by Barbara Narmont and Christine Sterner, respectively. 
After a powerful performance as Mr. Gant in Look Homeward, Angel, Kirk Packo will serve as Stage Manager, assisted by Sandy Swartz. Set and Costume Design will be done by Faith Adams, who created the costumes for both Look Homeward and Ft>llows. Ms. Adams' costuming will try to capture the tension between the Greek ideals and those of the barbarian heritage which are set forth in the drama. Because of the use of the arena, props will be minimal. and emphasis will be on the stage floor. one of the principle visual elements in this sort of production. 
Prof. Syburg sees the challenging of the audience as the essence of academic theatre. With the opening of Medea, the ND­SMC community will surely be challenged to careful listening and observation. but Prof. Syburg and his cast will be meeting 

and costumed actors who performed to immense audiences from a traditional proscenium. or thrust stage, Jeffers' adaptation will be rendered from an in­timate arena-type theatre. Due to the repairs needed in Washington Hall. Prof. Syburg was forced to move his production to O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's. Because the scale of the production which had been envisioned would have been dwarfed by the size of the new cite, Prof. 
Syburg decided on the "theatre in the 
round." or arena presentation. 

Although this arena has inherent ad­\·antages--a greater sense of intimacy and more direct audience-actor communication­-it also demands more of the actors, whose (•very gesture and movement becomes dsible to their audience. The cast, therefore. must use much greater con­centration than usual. to master more subtle gestures and glances, and movement which plays to as large a portion of the surrounding audience as possible at each mommt. Intonation must also be greatly refined when an audience is only a few feet away. In working on this aspect, the cast has used intensive wailing exercises to help dPvelop the hollow, sorrowful moaning lwhind the lines of the play. 
Sinee Euripides' tragedy, like all Greek 
drama. was essentially yelled through 
stvlized masks. and acted with massive 
gestures meant ttl reach a large, distant 
audience. it will be most interesting to see 
how the play lends itself to translation into 
an intimate, subtle form. 

Playing Medea, whose passionate love 
turns in the play into monstrous energies of 
revenge, will be Katherine Burke, who gave 
an effective and thoroughly enjoyaple 
performance as Elizabeth, the madam of a 
brothel in this season's production of Look 
llonu•wa•·d. Angt'l. Taking the lead male 
quite a formible challenge as well. Going roles will be two actors who have in the past from the extreme of stylized Greek theatre impressed their competance ·upon the ND­to one in which the actors' masks will be '3MC theatre-goers: Dan Daily will portray their own finely shaped and maintained Creon, and William McGlinn will be Jason, expressions will be a significant transition; the object of Medea's passions. McGlinn if successful. the audience should be treated and Daily most recently gave brilliant to an evening of fascinating, sensitive performances as Mr. Tongue and Mr. Cheek theatre. in Christopher Cerasco's Fellows; before that. they appeared in Look Homeward, 
Mt'dt'a will run February 20, 22, 26, 27, and Angt'l. Other faces familiar from the recent 28 at8:00 p.m., and February 23 at 2:30p.m.

production of Tom Wolfe's play will be in St. Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. Price Kathleen Rink as the First Woman, and Dan for students, faculty, and staff is $1.50; all DPzeil as the Slave. Aegeus will be played others, $2.00. 
~ 
1 
l
'~ 

l ;!1/ ' \ I
.-­
J 
I 
I 

·-! \, 1 I 
I 

. ~ 
. j 
l
• 
1 



the year at innsbruck 
paris and vienna--old world in modern times 

tim o'reiley 
Those who expected a cultural shock to hit them never felt the slap 1h the face. Paris and Vienna possess traffic congestion, neon signs. and all the other ecoutriments of any modern American city. But this is a deception, because these two cities could never exist in this country. They are the products of histories that span over 1,000 years of a royal heritage, of a culture for which America became an escape valve. All these factors have built metropoli with uniquely Old World characteristics that are obvious to anyone who cares to seek and understand. 
One look at a map will reveal the large time over which these cities developed. The street systems of both Paris and Vienna look like they were designed by a tortured genius. A single street may bend five or six times in different directions before simply ending. One block roads and odd angle intersections are commonplace. Grid patterns are non-existant; streets came into being according to the irregular demands of population growth, royal decree, and post war construction. The roads themselves were constructed for horses and carriages, for which the still narrow and brick surface~ were laid. The whole thing provides a 
great playground for European drivers, a curse for most newcomers, and an indicator of a protracted history. 
On either side of a street stands a virtual wall ofapartmentbuildings and townhouses. All five or six stories tall, these dwellings were built so close together that only dif­ferent colored walls can distinguish them. Businesses and shops often occupy the ground floor. The facades are adorned with balconies and some kind of decoration, most notably the Baroque style of Vienna. To the middle. each structure has a courtyard, providing a neighborhood atmosphere for the residents. 
These apartments comprise some of the most exclusive residences in the city. Private homes with a front and back yard, are virtually unheard of, prohibited by the lack and expense of land in centuries past. The slum areas have developeed in the suburbs. But the downtowns are well preserved and maintained, making them the most attractive areas to live. 
The center cities also hold the great beauty that these capitals are famous for. Royalty, at its height. designea great aristocratic playgrounds in competition with each other, in a sort :;~f international status symbol game. With the enlighten­ment or end of the monarchies, all the private properties were thrown open to the public. allowing everyone to benefit from these magnificent works of art. Vienna as the Hofburg, the former Imperial complex, with its lush gardens now converted to museums and parks. The Place de Con­eorde in front of the Louvre furnishes a great cultural diversion for Parisians. Both Vienna and Paris have superb main thoroughfares, the Ringstrasse and the Champs Elysees respectively, were built by rulers who wanted to create something both enjoyable and practicle. 
Not to be outdone. the Church erected a few palaces to its own credit. In Vienna the Baroque style dominates church designs, most notably in the Karlskirche. Baroque leaves almost no wall space; everything must be overlaid with gold. marble, statues or paintings, with whatever is left over painted white. Man's greatest monument to God, Cathedral Notre Dame along the banks of the Seine. overawes with size alone. After that. the complexity of the iron grill surrounding the altar, the thick mahogany base for the grill, the famous stained glass windows or the hundreds of figures carved into the walls and pulpits are enough to distract the mind from any Mass. These chyrches constitute the rule rather than the exception, since even small parishes have churches that qualify, to a lesser degree, as art museums. Such wealth on so broad a scale reflects centuries of strong influence in European affairs. 
To many residents all these buildings house the traditions that make these cities unique. Many renowned artists, writers, public servants and clergy worked in and thrived on the atmospheres of Paris and Vienna~-Highways are built around the old portions that contain so much of this proud heritage. A major controversy rages in Paris over the erection of high-rises, sup­posedly desecrating the city's skyline. 
That does not mean that progress is shunned. It is incorporatied in a European way, such as placing gas pumps on a sidewalk instead of using a whole block for a gas station. These are not cities that look back to regale in what once was but shall never be again. Rather they seek a per­spective so that they may continue to present to the world gifts that are singularly Parisian and Viennese. 



.,, 

·. i 
,, 
I '-. , . .;_ ("!'' 9rlf 
-I 

10 the observer Wednesday, February 19, 1975 
Several misrepresentations cited 
Nickoloff aiJlrnends co:mrnents 
Former Regina Hall President Nancy Nickoloff yesterday amended several comments at­tributed to her in Monday's Observer•. and stated that she was misquoted and that other quotes were taken out of contest. 
"I have no desire to remain in office. and have no desire to hurt people or downgrade any faction of hall or student government. I wish to apologize for the reporter's misinterpretation of what I said," 
Coed living in 

Grace proposed 
(c;ontinued from page I) 

view. the housing problem is simplified when we no longer have to worry about converting an entire dormitory," she noted. 
"But." Jones continued, "there have been losses also. There have­been problems with men and women taking each other for granted. Some of the residents have grown weary of the lack of privacy." 
Privacy. sharing needed 
Jones emphasized that there are many different patterns of coed 
housing.  ranging  from  mixed  
roommates  to  separate  floors  
withpn the same building.  "I feel  

the best style of coed housing is one which combines common facilities and private facilities," she said, and noted that the Grace plan does make that distinction. 
"I don't know if we're ready for coed housing, or when we will be ready. i 'm not prepared to give a final answer on that," she con­tinued. 
Referring to the Badin-Lewis decision announced Feb. 3, Jones indicated, "With the reversion of Badin Hall to an undergraduate women's residence, we are set as far as housing is concerned for '75 and '76, unless there is a major shift in the number of males living off-campus." 
Jones promised, however, that the issue of coeducational living would be judged on its own merits first, despite fears that alumni pressure would be an overriding factor in any decision made. 
"The first consideration is, 'Is this a good and wholesome thing for us now?' If yes, then we must communicate with the alumni in a way that will allow them to un­derstand the reasons for our decisions." she observed. 
"We must first decide if this is a viable, worthwhile, beneficial thing." Jones concluded. "Then we will look at the other interests involved." 
Later in the year the Committee on Undergraduate Life will make recommendations to the Student Affairs Committee that will then be presented to the entire Board of Trustees. When contacted, the committee members had not yet received copies of the Grace proposal. The plan will be discussed Saturday at a meeting of the subcommittee on residen­tiality, along with other matters pertinent to student residence both 
on and off-campus. 

-----. 
International 
Students 

Open House Open House in lr. ernational Students Room (Basement of LaFortune) Tu£ days & Thursdays u 20 pm -1 : 1 opm Free Coffee and Munchies All students, administrative staff and faculty welcome • 
the former president stated. 

"My biggest problem was not that no one cared enogb to par­ticipate, as the article stated, but that there was a lack of com­munication which prohibited others from participating," sbe said. 
Also. she stated that sbe would not have completed her te-rm of office even if she had a full cabinet with which to work. "I just didn't want the responsibility any more,"she said. 
When she was elected president, there was only one other hall of­ficer, the Regina -South Vice­President, Faye Maloof, who Nickoloff said. "worked to capacity, but without a vice­president in Regina North, hall government could not function to its fullest". 
She noted that the beginning of her term was the most diffficult, "because I didn't have ve-ry many 


MEDEA

~NO 
people to work with or to delegate 
authority to". 

I Nickoloff then appointed Corinne Chandler as treasurer of the hall and Kathy Waltner as acting vice-president for Regina North. Both Chandler and Walt­
ner,  she  stated,  "worked  ex­ 
ceptionally well".  
_  Contrary  to  a statement  at­ 

tributed to her in the article, she said that she did receive help on the hall formal held earlier this semester. 
Last semester, Nickoloff was successful in organizing a Stan­ford-Regina trip to the Nor­thwestern football game, and during Octoberfest, she noted that Regina won the hall-decorating contest. Also under her direction, Regina sponsored an Army Cadet dance_ at the Heidelberg Inn, a Halloween party, "plus numerous · Christmas parties and ice cream 
socials." she said. 
Robinson Jeffers 

Ski USA's biggest ski mountain: JACKSON HOLE, WYO. ALL INFO. WED. FEB 19 7:00PM, 1-C LAFORTUNE (or call N.D. Ski Club 
-6856, 3738 

SPECIAL WEEl<END ROOM RATES fOR 'NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
S · Single occupancy Double occUpancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just mention this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or·Sun. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 ' (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond._, Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 









NICKlE'S 
adapted from Euripedes Feb. 20, 22 -8 pm (No Show Feb. 21)SMC Feb. 23 -2:30 pm Feb. 26, 27, 28, Mar. 1-8 pmTHEATRE O'Laughlin Auditorium Arena Seating -284-4176 $1.50 Stud-Fac-Staff  PRESENTS 60 HOURS  

PlUS SUGARlOAF Alii} FLASH CADillAC-WINGS STADIUM • KALAMAZOO~~ii~~~ W(DIIESDAY fEBRUARY 26 • 8 P.M. All SEATS $5.50 G£NERAL ADMISSION ON SALE AT WINGS STADIUM OR BY MAIL ORDER TO, Wings Stadium, 3600 Von Rick Dr, Kalamazoo, Ml .49002. MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO WINGS STADIUM. PLEASE ENCLOSE SELF-ADDRESSED ENVElOPE.  OF THE LOWEST BEER PRICES IN THE COUNTRY! MON, TUES, WED: NOON -MIDNIGHT THURS, FRI, SAT: NOON -8:00 P.M. PLUS THE BEST HALF-POUND CHARCOAL GRILLED HAMBURGERS IN TOWN  
HERBIE HANCOCK STEPAN CENTER AND ON COLUMBIA RECORDS & TAPES LPs Regularly $4.99 At BOOGIE RECORDS in College Square, MishawakaNow $3.99 (across from Town & Country Shopping Center) HERBIE HANCOCK 00""N" •ouiiii•oac• ••cooou•o AERB'E AANCOCK THRUST DINO DE LAURENTIIS PresentsAEAD AUNTERS CHARLES BRONSON Spank-HERBIE HANCOCKAERBtE HANCOCK THRUST DINO DE LAURENTIIS PresentsHEAD HUNTERS inducing: CHARLES BRONSON lnaMichaetWinnerFilm "DEATH WISH" Music Composed, Cohduc:ted and PerlOI'medbyHERBIE HANCOCK including: Joanna's Theme Death Wish (Main Title) Rich Country Fill Vour Hand Party People ' KC 32731" PC 32965° PC 33199•  



•_· l 

' ~· .. 
• , ••• .~ .. , # .-••• 



-~1. 
Wednesday, February 19, 1975 the observer 1 1 
Campus briefs • • • 
There will soon be a new about donations and will aid the questionnaires. This phase will begin its advanced program cities where one percent of the timetable for Darby's Place, the servlce's continuation. Bode noted last an hour and a half and will be Wednesday night at 7 in the "Pop population is practicing TM, there late night haven for ND-SMC his goal is to clear costs of the food offered next week at the Coun­Farley" room in the basement of is a drop in crime rates," noted law "night people." and have enough to get things seling Center. Farley Hall. This phase of the student Robert Carsello. 
Beginning this coming week, under way next year. The second phase of the program will be a series of The next introductory presen­
Sunday nights will be added to the schedule. Also, Darby's will be shortening the hours of food availability to 4 a.m. 
Coffee, donuts, and soft drinks will be available from 12 a.m. to 4 
a.m. Monday through Thursday nights. but due to no source of donuts, Sunday's will offer just the beverages. 
Bob Bode, student organizer of Darby's with Fr. Griffin, reported that donations for the food have left the operation ''barely breaking even." He said he hopes the patrons will be more conscientious finance the scoring of the questionnaires.

Patterson discusses 
For more information, students can contact McCabe at the Counseling Center, room 400 of the 


balance of power 
Administration Building. 
(continued from page 3) 
been repeated through many generations. 
Concerning these reforms, Patterson argued that Congress has changed as a result of political change. He argued, "In a democratic society the citizens have to make the change". Pat­terson added, "Mindless refor­mism does not seem to me a good substitute for a politically active and aware public." 
With regard to separation of powers. Patterson said that to the men who wrote the Constitution the legislative branch was intended to be the central institution. The fact that the first Article of the Con­stitution was about the Legislature supports this contention. 
The balance of power has waxed and waned over the years, he 

• noted. Patterson was aware that the separation creates conflicts between Congress and the Presidency but he believes that it is "a reasonable price to pay for protedtion from Presidential aggrandizement." 
After Prof. Patterson lectured, his speech was discussed by Dr. Paul Bartholomew and John Roos, both Government professors. 

Speaking first, Bartholomew briefly discussed more deeply the rdations between Congress and the Presidency and between Congress and the Judiciary. Concerning Congress and the Presidency, he mentioned the eonflicts they encounter in the area of foreign relations. On the Congress and the Judiciary, he talked about the recent con­troversy over the presentation of Presidential papers. 
Dr. Roos' speech was more a review of and elaboration of Dr. Patterson's lecture. His speech 
Israel continues to receive oil 

PARIS <UPI> -Shah Mo­hammed Reza Pahlevi of Iran said Tuesday he will keep oil supplies flowing to Israel as part of a new settlement Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger is trying to negotiate in the Middle East. 
The Shah also declared that Iran will refuse to take part in any oil embargo. 
It was learned that Kissinger brought up the possibility of Iran supplying Israel with oil commercially if that country agrees to return the captured Abu Rodeis oil fields to Egypt as part of a new interim peace settlement. 
Israel captured the fields in the 1967 Middle East war and currently obtains about 40 per cent of its oil supplies from them. 
On 011 prices, the Shah said he was not interested in lower prices but he was interested in dialogue with the oil con­sumers. 
program will be held each night 
Career PIanning theweekofMarch 17. It consists of 
---a three-hour workshop on decision programs 0 ffered strategy for career goals. 
Dr. Sheridan McCabe, director 
Students can sign up this week of the Counseling Center, noted for a two-phase program in Career that the career planning programPlanning to be offered by the would be valuable not only to Counseling Center. The first phase sophomores preparing to choose of the program, which is intended their major, but to students in all to help students decide their career academic years.objectives, is scheduled for the "It would be useful to someone week of February 24. who didn't know what career they
The first phase of the program are interested in," McCabe said. will measure student interest in Unlike other Counseling Center particular careers through several services, a one dollar fee will be 
charged participating students to 
t~uched briefly on the history of SIMS commences 
Congress and on the attempted reforms of Congress. Roos also advanced program
stated that the present situation of 
Congress can either turn back to The Students' International party leadership or downward to Meditation Soci~ty <SIMS> will the individual Congressmen. Tomorrow night's lecture will be on the Presidency and will be 
THINK ... 
presented by guest lecturer Herbert Storing. The final lecture 
CO.LEGE LIFE 
on Thursday will be on the Courts and the guest lecturer is David 
NOW ROYAL AMERICAN SHOWMEN AND 
LISTEN 



"1strula ~ 
. NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS 011 U.S. 31 Mtwetn llies. So. B•d-Frte Pmia&-&ll-USG. 


meetings for people who have tations will be held at 7:30 next already learned TM and will be Monday night in the Librar:­held every Wednesday throughout Lounge and Tuesday night 11 the semester. Madaleva Room 249. 
"We're providing a comfortable Ticket reduction'~ atmosphere for students to learn more about the Science of Creative still available Intelligence," explained SIMS 
Reduced admissions to SouU;Vice-President Walt Mills. The Bend's Town and Country, Statemeetings will feature color video and Scottsdale cinemas , including

tapes, refreshments and 
Mel Brook's "Young Fraukendiscussions of the role of Tran­stein" are still avail?.ble at thescendental Meditation in social Student Union Ticket Office.

change. 
All tickets are $1.50. Regular "Research completed in admission price for "Young December indicates that in those Frankenstein" is $2.50. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Wanted: serving wenches for poker party Friday evening. Free whiskey and cigars. Apply by calling Woodward Manor, 289-9148, between 7 and 11 pm_ 
Need riders to Cincinnati. Leave Thurs. nite, Feb. 23. Call Earl, 2153. 
Need riders to Kent, Ohio. Call Brian, 287-3586. 
Need 10 DePaul tix. 289-2757. 
Wanted: student to give tennis lessons. Call Debbie, 232-6122. 
Ride wanted DC area weekend of March 1. Fran, 5714. 
Married couple needed for live-in houseparents for foster home. Salary_ Write P.E.P., Inc., 3012 S. Twickenham, South Bend, 46614. 
I need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. during the spring break (help pay for gas and drive too). Please call Mark at 255-5559 _ 
Architects wanted who can adapt local material and construction methods to design of community buildings. Serve in developing nations. See Peace Corps recruiters in library, Feb. 17-20. 
Innovative persons to teach adults, inncer city dropouts, and bi-lingual children throughout U.S. Elemen­tary to university levels in all subjects in countries overseas. See Peace Corps-VISTA recruiters in library, Feb. 17-20. 
If you grew up on a farm, know how to drive tractor, repair equipment, etc. others need what you know. See Peace Corps-VISTA recruiters in library, Feb. 17-20. 
Need ride to Columbus, Ohio, weekend of Feb. 28. Call Chris, 4264. 
FOR SALE 
One black and white 12-inch Motorola television. Call Ed, 1487. 
Pioneer turntable PL-51 with AT-125 cartridge_ Call Ed, 1487. 
Money? Morrissey Loan will lend up to $150 for 30 days, 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune, daily, 11:15 to 12:15. 
Stereo equipment for sale: Kenwood 3130 receiver, $110; a pair AR-6 speakers, S125; 1 pair Harmon­Kardon 20 speakers, $40!, Philips 302 turntable, S60. Call 6801. 
NOTICES 
Meeting Wednesday Feb. 19 for those interested in Los Angeles charter flight at 4: 15 in 122 Hayes­Healy. Additional $20. 
Take the Greyhound from Notre Dame to Chicago every Friday at 
5:40. Two buses return on Sunday. Call Tom, 272-1807. 
want a break from hard studying? Read National Lampoon, Rolling Stone, Village Voice, Time, Newsweek, and relax. Pandora's Books. 602 N. St. Louis Blvd. at S. Bend Ave. 
Overseas Jobs -Australia, Europe, 
S. America, Africa. Students all professions and occupations. $700­$3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing. Free in­formation. Transworld Research Co., Dept_ F3, P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA. 94925. 
S.H.A.R.E., Hotline phone, 4311, Holy Cros~. rm 15, S.M.C. com­pletely confidential. 8-12 nightly. 
OBSERVER STAFF: "The family that prays together, stays together." Mass is being offered each weekday during Lent in the Ballroom of LaFortune, 12:30 p.m. See you thereI 
Mom 

--------------------~--------------------------------------------------~ 
Tune up specialist, 2 barrel car­buretor overhaul, $24.95, parts in eluded. 232-1796. 
Enter the Mock Stock Market, "Old Business Building" or LaFortune. 
Disciplinary action hanging over your head? Call Student Govt., 7668. We may be able to help. 
Ruggers: meeting Wed., Feb. 19. outside club sports office in A.C.C. at 
4:15. Bring money to make your tour deposit equal $160_ No exceptions. New Members Welcome. 
Campus Press is now hiring an experienced pressman. Interested? Contact C.P. at 7047, 1-5; nights call 
Glen, 287-6245. 
SPRING BREAK TRIP TO MON­TEGO BAY, JAMAICA -RESER VATIONS WILL BE TAKEN UNTIL THIS FRIDAY, FEB. 21. TO SIGN UP OR FOR FURTHER IN­FORMATION, CALL 272-9195 AFTER 7:00 P.M. 
Intensive Language Training in Hausa, Swahili, Tologo, Fijian, Thai, Korean, Spanish, or Por­tuguese -FREE! See the Peace Corps recruiters in library, Feb. 17­20. 
BBAs & MBAs: opportunities ad­vising businesses, cooperatives, and credit unions. See Peace Corps­v 1STA recruiters in library,.Feb. 17­20. 
Whoever lost $10 Feb. 13, call 218­8068 after 6. Caller must identify approx. area where bill was found_ 
FOR RENT 
Houses ranging from two to seven bedrooms. Completely furnished. Available for May or Sept. 2~-9364. 
Now renting 2 to 5 bedroom homes. Completely furnished for Sept. Call 234-9364. 
A 6 mo. sublease of a $175.00 1 bedroom apt for only $130. If in­terested, call Bonnie, 232-5853. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: sterling silver cross, 3­quarters inch. no chain. Between D-1 parking lot and Keenan. Of great sentimental value. Reward offered. If found, call Pat, 3303. 
Lost: pair of black framed glasses near O'Shag. Call 289-6142. 
Accidentally switched Navy wrap 
jackets at Crestwood party Fri. Call Marianne, 284-4101. 
Lost: pearl ring in piano room of O'Shag. Reward. If found, call 8019. 
PERSONALS 
Kathy: Happy Birthday. AML. PB 
To The Flack: This is early since I don't work Wed_ Happy Birthday in France and write. We miss you. 
Mad Correspondent 
Achilles: you have seen my face. will I see yours? Helen of Troy _ 
The Dinty Moore family has returned from their Florida vacation. 
MORT FREEN SAYS: SAVE STUEY! 
Mike-Rememoer Pink Floyds Towers? Herbie Hancock is not a rumor. Cal! 
5700. 
Sister Eileen: 
Thanks tor the call Monday. Trace 
Andy: It's been two weeks since we lov,O by the lightofthe lava_ I'll be gett~ in touch. Paula 
~ 
-
.... 


12 the observer Wednesday, Fl!br'Nry 19, 1975 
Tom Coye-fencing blend of youth and experience 
by Tom Kruczek and had a chance to "see what life on the outside, I have learned to out there was really like." appreciate a situation when it gets 
One of the most overworked of After the completion of his tour better, and it was better coming the numerous sports cliches is in of duty, Coye reapplied to Notre from the outside world to Notre reference to courage. In the Dame and was accepted for the · Dame. Really, its like a big current tradition of sports, playing . spring semester of 1971. Beginning playground here, and it could be a with anything more than a : school at the age of 23, Coye came lot worse elsewhere." hangnail is considered courageous. 1 to Notre Dame without having seen "One of the problems that people 

Be as it may, courage is more than the campus prior to his arrival. have here at Notre Dame, is that the endurance of an insignificant The first person he went to was they expect everything to come to amount of pain. Courage is the fencing coach Mike DeCicco whom them. I have no complaints here, continuation of competition he visited on the advice of his but what many people do, is they against situations that another uncle. isolate themselves here. There are person may not have endured. At Fencing had been a large part of things to do if you want to. I've r\otre Dame. the captain of this Coye's life. His uncle was his first found a lot of happiness here." year's fencing team, Tom Coye fits early exposure to the sport. Coye's Part of that happiness found at that definition perfectly. parents died when he was quite Notre Dame has to do with a 
Although he prefers to play down young, and he lived with his step-certain young lady by the name of this aspect of his life, Tom Coye mother. With his uncle and Cheryle Haws who will become has worked hard, in some cases by cousins, Coye was first exposed to Mrs. Tom Coye on May 24 of this himself to get to the position he is the sport that he would later year a week after his graduation. in today. A senior premedical master enough to become captain "Yes, I am quite happy here, it is a major in the college of arts and in his senior year at Notre Dame. lot better than other places I've letters, Coye possesses an attitude Through his four years of high been." that might strike some as strange. school, Coye fenced at foil, the only Coye, who will turn 'l:l next It is a cross between older weapon that was fought in New weekend, is one of the few in­maturity looking at a younger York high schools. This carried dividual captains that the fencers group, and the craziness inherent over to college, and Coye ranks have ever had. Coach DeCicco in a freshman in college. now as one of the best of the foil feels that the. reason for this is 
The journey to a college degree squad that DeCicco has. "because of his ability as a leader began in 1965 for Coye, when he But there is a lot of difference of the team." On this note, Coye was first accepted to Notre Dame. between the Air Force and Notre adds "I am very proud tobecaptain Due to financial problems, he was Dame, and for many people there and it sort of makes everything forced to decline the opportunity to may have been adjustment dif-over the years seem justified to attend Notre Dame. Because of ficulties. Not for Coye. "No, I have a chance to be the captain for this and basic indecision, Coye really didn't have many problems this year." enlisted for four years in active getting adjusted to life here. I But for a captain to be Z7 years duty in the Air Force. It was this guess part of that could be because old and having to deal with fencers part of his life that he "grew up" I really enjoy it here. Having been who may be eight years younger 
can be a problem. But Dave Connor, senior in epee from Cin­cinnati, said it hasn't been so at all. "No. there has been no trouble with Tom being older. He's the 
Track tea1n w-ins first 
by Dan Reagan as National track powers South 

type of guy who will get on you and Illinois, Kansas, Drake and stay on you to make you work, but 
Notre Dame's track team sped to Bowling Green will be par­
he doesn't make you feel bad in the its first team victory of the indoor ticipating. 
process." Coye feels that
Friday night the

season ;ast in The meet is scheduled to begin "sometimes I start lecturing too Athletic and Convocation Center. Friday with the preliminaries and much, I give too much advice. But The impressive team effort was the finals will be held Saturday. the reason for that is because I aided by five first place finishes, and nine second place showings. 
Mike Housley set the pace of the 
lith, 18th in polls 
meet by jumping out to an early victory in the one mile run. He was followed by teammate Joe Yates AP Poll UPI Poll 
and from this point the Irish Tht• Top Tw.·my, ,.·tth ftr<t·plat't• SKI~· YORK (l"P[) -Tht· l'nll•'d never trailed in the team scoring. volt'S ill pan-ntlttoS<'s. •wason n.•rnnt, Pn•ss lnl<'rnatmnal Roanl .,f Coa<'ht•' througll,~:amt·~ of Sunday. Fl'b ltl, and top :!0 major roUt~ haslwthall l~arnsAgide from the triple jump Notre total points !'oint& tabulaltod un ba>'" of w1th flrsl-plac~ wttos and ,.·un-Jo..1 r.·­
Dame finished at least one man in '!D-11\-If>.l-1-1~·1!1-~-7·1\.·i+ J.l.l rortb ill pal'l'ntht·SI·'· Elt•wr.th "'"''k. 
the top five in the 15 event meet. I. Indiana (-Iii) 24-0 
Tram Point~ 
1. lX'I.A Ill.! I. Indiana (41) !4-11 ·1111
('huck Wills maintained his l Maryland 1>~-~ 2. UCLA 19-2 ::t;:t consistent form as he strode to a ~ l'dro. St. 111-:1 _,,,
~ 3. Maryland Ill:~ "i..\Jabama I~Z 4. S.C. St. 1~3 1~
7.6 second place in the 60 yard high 6. 1)1.~ :w
l.out~\'l!lt• 5. Alabama l~thurdles. Ed Burns of Notre Dame 7. Kentucky 1!1-3 6. l.ouisvill<· 11-! )o; 
finished third just .2 of a second S. Alilllfla St. I!I-~ 
, 
7. ,\rtznna St. II'-? Itt\ 9 MarqUt•!lc 17·:1 S. Kt>ntucky 111-3 I.!'"
behindWills. NCAA hopeful, Mike 
10. Soutbt•m Cal J'>.•; 9 !llarqu••ll<> 17·3 '•'1 Gahagan. used his powerful strides ·II. Sotre Dam•• 1:,7 10. Soutmom Cal 1;;..;, ·~) 
to grab first place in the 1,000 yard 
12. Pl•nnHyl\·ama 1'-1 II. Ol'l'gon Stall• 14-9 ·' 
13. North Caroiina 1.;.~ 12. Nor1h Carolina 1:H1 ~~ 
run. Notre Dame again finished 14. Cnotgllton li<-1 13. AriZona 17-t I! 
one. two as Dan Horgan placed 15. Arizona 16-1 14. Texas-EI Paso 16-1 II 
18. ("komson 13-S 15. Utah Stall' 17-f 10
second. Other second place 17 LaSalle 1!4. .
18. LaSallt' 19-4 ' finishes went to Jim Hurt in the 1~. Ct·nll"llal'\ :!"!·:! 17. SP\·ada-l..aio Vegas IR4 ; 
two-mile run and Jim O'Brien in 
19. Pan ,\lll('.rican ~~~ 18 Tit> !'iotn> Dam•• 1!">-7 6 :!0. On~ St. 14-9 lM. Tit> Karu;as I:HI 8the 600 yard run. :!0. South CaroUna 1:H1 i In both the pole vault and the 880­vard run the Iirsh swept the first four places. Mike Hogan cleared 
the bar at 15 feet to take the pole NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION PROUDLY vault while Jim Reinhart broke the 
PRESENTS

tape at 1:55.8 in the 880. Hogan was not alone though, as Teb Rurgmeier. George Matteo and 
J .C. Seth placed second, third and fourth. Following Reinhart across 
JOE 

the line were Joe Yates, Ernie Hibera and Dan Horgan. In other field events musclemen Harry Woebkenberg and Mike 


WALSH 
i\leyer put the shot 50' 612" and 49' 
4'" respectively to take second and 
IN CONCERT 

third. Ron DePetris and Dave 
Betlach handled the long jump as 
they completed Notre Dame's fifth WEDNESDAY MARCH 12 
one. two finish of the night. 
The final tally saw Notre Dame 8:00 P.M. 
capture team honors with 99 points 
followed by Kentucky State with 56 
NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC &
points, Valparaiso 47, Wayne State 
33 and DePaul 3. 
CONVOCATION CENTER
The Irish thinclads will travel to Kalamazoo, Michigan this Friday 
MAIL ORDERS NOW BEING ACCEPTED!
night for the 49th running of the 
Central Collegiate Conference 
lH'KF'f" PHICFS: $fi.OO, $5.00, & $4.00 
track meet. Twenty teams will 
converge at Western Michigan 
' 'I; I! \ II I q; I >I I;" \I \"I' c Ill· I " I' \ \ \Ill E )I I
University in hopes of defeating 
•·11;1 l•\\11 .llfl·· \\\l'-11 :-.!lot\\.\ \1\ll. Til 11!{
last year's team champion, 
·t:1•l' 1>i·l· \T ,,·\Tt-: IU 'lf<'I\FT 111-TI<'t-: \T TIIF 

Eastern Michigan. The Irish will 
I ,. I "\1 l.lt"t-: ST·\\11'1-:It. :-ELF ..\IJIJHt-::'SE!J try to improve on their fourth place I"\\ II ttl'l· \\ ITII otJ\11!-:H 1:\111!".\TI'\C \.\ \\Bt-:1\ IIF finish of a year ago as Mike I It hi· I" \T I: \I'll 1'1:1< •t-: 11\'FH Tilt-: c (I( Yl FH Gahagan will also be trying to ~ \I I· , I: I· t ,I \. \Ill"\ I I \ \ 1-' F I I In . \ H Y ::4 repeat his first place run of a year ago in the 1000 yard run. Several 
t\ BA :\1 BOO PRODCCTION 
records are expected to be broken The Irish fencing team just broke Wayne State's three year 40 meet win streak last Saturday. 

tend to feel responsible for the have really been fantastic to me." 
team and how they do. The attitude that Coye presents 
''Most of the time I just act like a is a different one. He is obviously 
kid out there with the rest of them, mature, and as he puts it "I'm able 
and I enjoy doing it." Adding with to look objectively, almost from 
a laugh, "because it makes me feel the outside, on some of the 
young." He added seriously problems that people may be 
however, "I have enjoyed wat­having. One example is with the 
ching the team develop over the draft numbers. When people were 
years, and prove themselves to be getting really worried about them, , 
a strong unit. They may be a I was able to look at what was 
boisterous group, but that could be happening objectively, since I was , 
the secret as to why they are already in the service and didn't 
good." have to worry about this sort of I 
Although Coye had no idea what thing." 
to expect in coming to Notre But in another sense, Coye I 
Dame. one thing thai ·he did know presents the attitude of any other 
was that Mike DeCicco ranked as senior in college. His face spreads 
one of the best fencing coaches in into a wide grin, when the subject 
j' 

the nation. "Knowing that Coach turned to age difference. "No. 
DeCicco was here is one of the there is no problem with the dif­
major reasons I came to Notre ference in age between say the 
Dame. He helped me here at Notre freshmen and myself, hell. I just 
Dame in a variety of ways. Also I go erazy with them, and do the best 
believe I have been fortunate in I can." And that's what Tom Coye 
being able to learn from two ex­is all about. Enjoying life, and 
Notre Dame fencers like Tim doing the best he can. 
Taylor and Doug Daher, and they 
20th Anniversary Sale Amplifiers, Drums, Guitars, & Moog Synthesizers up to 40% off 
Imperial Music 91 1 W. McKinley College Square Mishawaka, Ind. All other merchandise also reduced 

SENIOR CLUB 
ANNOUNCES 

WEDNESDAY 5-9 
Sandwich & Beer $1.00 

9 -? 7 & 7's -50 ct 
Thursday & Friday night LIVE MUSIC 
HAPPY HOUR FRIDAY 4-6 MIXED DRINKS 50¢ 





