

------------~-----~--~~­
server 
Tuesday, March 4, 197S

~, No.93 
The two leading candidates 
Corpora, Byrne make Wednesday's run-offs 
by Mike Lyons 
The following table is a breakdown of votes for each candidate participating in '­
Staff Reporter 
the 1975 SBP Election. Ed Byrne and Joe Corpora will be facing each other 
Total Candidates Al BA BP CA Dl FA Fl El GR HO KE LY MO PA StE ST SO HC WA ZA ac in the run off elections for student body president Wednesday. Byrne and his running mate Tom Fit­
355 (11.4) Hegarty-Caldwell 6 7 15 8 40 17 13 25 22 13 48 4 23 13 23 18 10 10 4 16 21 zgerald took first place in yesterday's primary, cap­turing 818 votes while Corpora and his running mate 
308 (9.9) Boyle-Black 4 13 23 19 18 14 20 13 19 9 16 19 15 16 3 7 12 21 18 18 11 Tom Spurling were second with 602. 
602 (19.4) Corpora-Spurling 19 33 30 16 12 23 19 35 50 32 B 36 11 53 17 13 9 80 22 58 26
The seven member board of directors of InPIRG I Indiana Public Interest Research Group) was also 36 (1.1) Smith-Rand 
19 0 0 0 0 0 2 2 0 0 0 2 positions. 
elelcted yesterday. Eleven candidates tried for the 818 (26.3) Byrne-Fitzgerald 130 15 50 124 19 43 22 37 70 10 17 26 39 45 13 10 24 4 69 12 40
Pleased with the results 194 (6.2) Culligan-Macauley 2 3 2 17 11 
12 6 12 33 4 8 19 ll 14 12 6 6 5 9
Commenting on his victory in the primary, Byrne said: "Overall, of course, I was very pleased with the 284 (9.1) Bury-Sondej 
7 19 7 2 11 4 8 29 35 5 91 6 7 14 4 5 3 5 20
results of Ule primary and the campaign. One com­plaint I have is perhaps that not enough coverage was 510 (16.4) Gassman-McGuire 7 20 2
6 21 44 17 73 40 5 23 9 44 15 4 132 8 2 9 18 
given the elections and campaign as far as making Total Vote _
3107

people aware of times and places for meetins and so ' ~ on.'' '-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------J
Byrne said that he attributed his victory to getting in and David and I support Corpora." actually meeting the students. "We had 5 or 6 people in each Mike Gassman also endorsed Corpora, saying he was the hall who were very helpful in informing others about our "hardest worker, most concerned, and I think this is in­platform and objectives. We worked extensively with these dicated in his record." Gassman swept Stanford, taking 132 people." of 188 votes and thira place in the final count. 
Joe Corpora indicated that he was "overjoyed" at the Andy Bury endorsed Byrne and said that students should results and "very optimistic" about the elelction Wednesday. really look at the issues and be eoncerned enough to show up 
lit> attributed his out come in the primary to a combination at the debate tonight. of things. "personal contact was very important. We have a Tom Black, running mate of Pat Boyle, endorsed Corpora, lot of friends in Holy Cross and a telephone committee who saying he had known him for a long time and felt confident he did a lot of work. We will be working on all the dorms today would be the best choice. to gain additional support." Dennis Smith. the only freshman candidate expressed SBP-SBVP RUNOFF CANDIDATES talk things over with 
Corpora said that he considered his platform realistic and approval of both Byrne and Corpora. He thought the student outgoing SBP, Pat Mclaughlin. In a jovial vein, Pat predic­strong and "able to withstand close inspection." turnout was terrible. "All people had to do was walk down ted he will be as happy to be leaving office Wednesday, as Rvrne mentioned that a debate between two candidates the hall to vote." 
he was last year when he won the election. 
will. be held tomorrow night at 11:40 in the Keenan Stanford McLaughlin compliments candidates chapel and encouraged all to attend. eerning yesterday's Observer editorial which declined to 
'"We think our platform is solid and we can defend it. It is Pat McLaughlin, student body president, complimented endorse any candidate. Joe Corpora said, "The Observer did very important that the president be able to defend his the candidates on the campaign. "Overall I felt it was much not endorse anyone because they have an inferiority com­platofrm in front of the administration, so this debate will deaner and had a lotless problems than former ones." plex. For the past six years they have endorsed the losing show which candidate's ideas will stand up under criticism," Ht> also thanked the election committee for their work and candidate. I think they didn't endorse anyone so people Bvrne said. said he felt the election a success as far as voter turnout and wouldn't purposably vote against the one they endorsed." . 'corpora t>xpressed approval of the voting turnout and said the l'Ven more votes would probably be picked up Wed-Brian Hegarty added: "I was walking across campus he expected even more students to vote in the election nesday. today thinking about the election and I saw an empty car pull \\'t>dnesday. · Turnout was about average, with 3,107 casting ballots, 48 up_ in fron of t~~ Morris Inn, and out stepped the Observer 
<'oncerning the poor 0-C turnout he said: "I think that one percent of the student body. Off campus students had the edi!orml staff. -. . main reason was the poor publicity and placement of the poorest voting percentage with only 9 per cent of the 1500 ·• Ed Byrne defended ~he student governmen~ ~rg~mzatio!l.\'Oting place for off-campus students <the Huddle>. I would students living off campus casting ballots. Sixty-one per cent ~tudent government IS not ~n the way out, It IS JUSt ~gm­like to see it set up in the library and the hours extended so of on-campus students voted. ~mg to mature.. The Committee on Undergraduate Life is that more would have a chance to vote." The candidates and their repsective percentage of votes is .JUSt now d~velopmg. No _matter what happens, we are now 
as follows: Ed Byrne, 26.3 per cent; Joe Corpora, 19.4 per better ~~Uipped to deal With the ~oa_rd of Trustees than ever Endorsements from losers l'ent; Mike Gassman, 16.4 per cent; Brian Hegarty, 11.4 per be_f~r~. Byrne expressed optiJ?ISm for. ~e. future. and cent; Patrick Boyle, 9.9 per cent; Andy Bury, 9.1 per cent; cntic~ze? t~e O~s_e~ver for Its . pessimistic attitude 
Several of the other candidates made statements of Jack Culligan, 6.2 per cent; and Dennis Smith 1.1 per cent. questionmg Its definitiOn of leadership. lTiticism and endorsement. Brian Hegarty was disappointed 
Percentage of hall residents voting ranged from a low of 37 InPIRG results 
with the turnout at the polls: "Apparently 40 per cent of the per cent for Dillon to a high of 79 per cent for Pangborn.people feel the calendar is great; apparently 40 per cent think Byrne overwhelmingly carried Alumni and Cavanaugh, The seven members elected to the InPIRG Board of i''r. Burtchaell is great. I hope these children are happy." 
while Corpora's votes were more distributed. As mentioned, Directors are tin order of decreasing number of votes) Julie Hegarty announced his support of Corpora. "Students don't Gassman swept Stanford. Engelhart, Lisa Molidor, Maureen Power, Timothy Hake,realize that confrontation is necessary to solve the big Dave Carlyle, Frank Musica, and Thomas Marting. Four problems at this university. I feel that neither Byrne nor Critical of Observer other ~andidates also ran. The board supervises the Corpora are confrontation-type candidates. However, I feel operation of the program which seeks solutions to com-that Corpora could manage well in other areas, and therefore Several of the candidates vented strong feelings con-munity wide problems. 
Inflation a burden 
Committee to study finances 
by Terry Keeney placing a strain on liquidity of operating --Emphasize preventive maintenance-of :\"t>ws Editor funds of the University. the physical plant; Fr. Edmund Joyce, executive vice 
Inflation places an extra burden on Rely on gifts to underwrite the cost of
president and treasurer of the University, tuition and endowment as means of building construction and renovation·proposed yesterday a committee, of ad­revenue. If tuition is raised too much, -Give highest priority to increa'singministrators. academic deans and faculty Notre Dame will price itself out of the 
salanes while increasing productivity perto make short and long-range plans for use educational market. 
student;.of University funds. ''We should raise tuition no more than is The Budget Priorities Committee weuld
In briefing the Academic Council on absolutely · necessary while being ex­
serve to provide direction for university{lniversity finances yesterday afternoon, tremely to ability of our
sensitive the use of limited existing funds. Joyce called for a Budget Priorities dientele to pay for the unique values of a 
"The Committee would help guide the
Committee to help allocate University Notre Dame education," Joyce said. 
discussion as to what the priorities should 
resources in the face of projected Joyce predicted cash budget deficits of 
be and what we can afford," Joyce said.
{lniversity budget deficits. $2 million and $3.6 million in fiscal1977 and 
The proposal for the Budget Priorities
Joyce outlined the history of the 1978, respectively. Unless the university 
Committee met with mixed reaction
University budget during the last 22 can reduce its costs, it will be faced with among Academic Council members.years-the years of Fr. Hesburgh's tenure large deficitis. 
Robert Williamson, associate professor
as president. He cited the "triped of Joyce characterized his appraisal as 
of Accounting, noted the candor of Joyce in
university finances-current operations, "net a voice of doom." 
outlining the problems.
the plant fund, and the endowment." "It a and hopeful ap­
was realistic "I am encouraged with what went on,"
praisal," he continued. 
he said. "I think it was very encouraging
Low equity fund to this of with
have type rapport the Must reduce costs Academic Council." 
Joyce noted the current financial con­Williamson cited the active role hedition is not as ·stable as it might seem. 
To accomplish his goal of reducing the hoped a Priorities Committee would take Although the University has grown in ·net operational costs base, Joyce proposed in budget matters. worth $112 million since 1962, most of this 
that: . . "I like the word "priorities" because itgrowth has been in the plant fund and -Notre Dame mamtam a balanced signals something before the fact; it
Auditorium C' ..owd, James Purdy presented ex­~.>ndowment, and not in the University's budget; signals decision, not acquiesence."
cerpts from lorn<:: by Dark and House of the 
eurrent fund equity. Joyce stated that the -l_ncrease fund-raising aimed at im-Chauncey Veatch, Student Bar Solit~ry M<~rr.. ..t. ~quitv fund has actuallv rlPrrP~'lPrl thm' nro,lnCJ .u.nt'inu.trnPnt · 

the observer 
world briefs 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -A federal court judge Monday gave officials nine months to pay an estimated $12 million in damages to 1.200 demon­strators arrested illegally during the 1971 May Day demonstration. 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (UPI)-Florida officials Monday unveiled a $6 million treasure trove which divers claim they recovered from a Spanigh galleon that sank in a hurricane off Key West more than 350 years ago. 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. (UPI) ­rhe vestry of Grace Episcopal Church has voted unanimously to refuse to accept the resignation of the Rev. Betty Bone Schiess, one of 11 women ordained as Episcopal priests at an unauthorized service in Philadelphia last July. 
DETROIT (UPI) -U.S. ~utomakers reported Monday that while sales were moving steadily upward in February because of $200 to $600 cash rebates, production dropped to a 14-year low. 
. WASHINGTON (UPI)-The United States announced Monday it has arranged to fly 20,000 metric tons of rice from South Vietnam to Cambodia to help aid war refugees in Phnom Penh and other areas. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) ­William T. Coleman was con­firmed by the Senate Monday as transportation secretary, becoming President Ford's first black Cabinet officer and only the second black Cabinet member in history. 
LOS ANGELES (UPI)-Two small earthquakes shook the los Angeles area Monday. The stronger one swayed tall buildings and set off burglar alarms. The milder one was barely felt. 
SMITH RIVER, Calif. (UPI) -An overnight motel guest "went berserk" Sunday night and killed four persons with a high-powered rifle. A suspect was arrested three hours later in Oregon. 
an campus 
today 
3:30 pm --computer course, "pi 1" 133 comp. cen. 
4:30 pm --seminar, "juvenile hormone-biosynthesis, transport and metabolism in manduca" gal. life. aud. 
5 pm --vespers, log cabin 
7 pm meeting, chess tour­nament, 227 comp. cen. 
7 pm meeting, nd backpacking club, final plans for spring trip, 1­c Iafortune 
7:30 
pm lecture, "en­vironmental impact on offshore petroleum operation" 101 earth sciences building 

7:30 
pm ·· meeting, faculty senate, 202 cce 

7:30 
pm .. meeting, tran­scendental meditation, 115 o'shag 


7:30-9:30 pm .. dance, faculty lessons with fran demarco, $2, Iafortune ballroom 
8 pm --concert, fine arts forum-­opera excerpts, little theater 
8 pm --soph. lit. fest., james t. farrell, washington hall 
'8 pm .. meeting "living normally lin an immoral world", lib. aud. 
B pm --lecture, "kostersite: a 'D stratified sight In so. ill." 
~ud. 
Tuesday, March 4, 1975 

SMC announces program with University of Dallas 
Saint Mary's College and the­
University  of  Dallas  have  an­ 
nounced  a  cooperative  program  
which  will  allow  Saint  Mary's  

graduates to enter the University of Dallas School of Management with up to 12 hours of credit toward the MBA or MS degree. 
Dr. Robert G. Lynch, dean of the Graduate School of Management at the Universityof Dallas, will be at. Saint Mary's Tuesday and Wt•dnesday to discuss the new program with students and faculty. 
Under the new agreement, the tlniversity of Dallas will waive up to four three-credit-hour courses in its graduate management program if the student has taken eertain required courses at Saint Mary's. A student may then eomplete the course work for the 
-
WASHINGTON <UPI) 

Hepublican congressional lead­ers said today President Ford 
told  them  he  was  seriously  
eonsidering  a  move  toward  
eompromise  with  the  Demo­ 

crats that would delay two new increases in the oil import fee. 
White House Press Secretary Hon Nessen said Ford would decide his course of action later today and announce it Tuesday in conjunction with his veto of a eongressionally passed measun: delaying the entire oil import fees program for 90 days. 
Senate Republican Leader Hugh Scott told reporters that 
Domestic heroin growth 

seen as answer to imports~ TONIGHT i 
master's  degree  in  three  
semesters  instead  of  the  usual  
four.  

In addition, the University of Dallas will award a full-tuition graduate assistantship each year to a Saint Mary's graduate. This assistantship will be continued over three or four semesters of graduate work pursued by the 
student at the University of dallas, provided she remains in good standing academically. 
This cooperative program, first of its kind for Saint Mary's College, is opened to students in any academic department. 
Dr. Lynch will be available Tuesday, March 4, at 4 p.m. in Madeleva room 233 to discuss the new program. See Dr. Filkins, Madeleva 226 for additional in· formation. 
Ford seeks a compromise to delay import fee hike 
Ford outlined his options for GOP leaders during a 75-minute meeting at the White House. He said Ford gave them a ''reasonable idea" of what he plans to do. 
"The President did say he was seriously considering se­veral things including the possibility of postponement" of the oil fee increases, Scott said, "but not an abandonment of the program he proposed." 
Seott also said that Ford had promised to announce his decision at 4 p.m. EDT today. But Nessen said Scott and the other Hepublicans obviously misunderstood. 
WASHINGTON mPil Sen. Birch Bayh said today the ad­ministration may be considering growing opium poppies doml·stically so the United States ('an be "self sufficient" in opium. 
This way. he says, the couhtry would not have to rely on imports to ml•et legitimate medical needs. 
Bayh borrowed the phrase from the nation's energy discussion today in his prepared statement opening hearings on legitimate and Illegal uses of opium. 
The testimony before his dt>linquency subcommittee, he said. would include "the feasibility of proposals-some reportedly from thP Office of Management and Budget-to cultivate domestically opium poppies, particularly those with little or no abuse potential to nwet our legitimate medical nl•eds. 
"Many find the prospect of self· sufficiency. rather than exclusive reliance on imported opium, to be an attractive concept " 
The_ Observer is publiShed dally dunng the college semester except vacations by the stuoents ot the Unive.rsity of Notre Dame and St. Marys College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor S9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Obs~rver Box Q, Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Jnd 
46556. • . 
MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES 
*  2 FILMS  
*  BOOKSTORE  
*  LIVE FLOOR SHOW  

1316 S0\1TH MICHIGAN STREET CAll 282-1 206 FOR INFORMATIO 
JAMES T. FARRELL will appear tonight in Washington Hall to discuss the Midwest c?n.tribu!ion ~o literature. Farrell, 71, arrived on campus Sunday to partrcrpate rn thrs year's Sophomore Literary Festival. 
WANTED 
Male Voices for Saint Mary's Academy Musical 
Carnival Auditions Mon & Tues Mar. 3 & 4 7p.m. Augusta Hall St. Mary's Academy 3610 Miami St. 

Bring Singing Material · Accompanist Available 
7 Stylists Full Time Manicurist Full Service Salon Edison & St. Rd. 23 
For Appt. 272-7222 
FOR MEN 


• 
By Popular Demand Another 
•
•

AMERICAN BANDSTAND •
•
NIGHT ••• •


50~ for ALL DRINKS ••
•
•
$2.00 for ANY LARGE PIZZA •
•
•
•
Dance Contest • •• •
•
• 
Rate -A -Record_ •• •• • •
• Autograph Tables •• •
•
•
•
•
Many Free Prizes, Gifts • 
•
•
•
•
JOKE CONTEST •
• 
Specials start at 5:00 •• • Dancing at 8:30 •••
•
•
• 
• •
• 
......,HH..~·•--•••••• 

1; 
'') 
Tuesday, March 4, 1975 the observer 

If something stirs bitter controversy, just wait a few years. Time is the great equalizer and has a vast mellowing effect. This rule applies to political ideas, fashions, and even to successful authors. Just ask James T. Farrell. 
In the 1930's. youngsters flocked to the local moviehouse to gape at 'Gone With the Wind" and hear the man with the patent­leather hair say, "I don't give a damn." Scandalous. Those same adolescents probably snuck out behind the garage to scan smudged copies of Studs Lonigan, searching frantically for the dirty words and suggestive scenes. Also scandalous. But what a difference a few years makes. 
f<'arrell 's early works, earthy, brutal, and realistic portraits of the slum life in the urban ghettos. are now considered quite tame. But they still serve as picturesque descriptions of lower class society, and as honest portrayals of the hoodlum mentality. Farrell's Lonigan trilogy, Young Lonigan, Tht> Young Manhood of Studs Lonigan, and . lndgnwnt Day. are his most famous works. 
These three books detail the life of one 
voung adolescent who lives in an urban 
ghetto. and includes his fears, his hopes and 
his activities. Studs feuds with his family, 
strives to please his peers, and longs to 
impress his girl. Farrell's style and content 
are blunt. realistic, and colorful. There is 
plenty of rich ethnic dialogue and a good 
dose of juvenile humor and thoughtfulness. 
The books combine to form the backbone of 
Jo'arrell's achievement and many critics feel 
these early stories are his best. 
One of the most important recurring 
themes in Farrell's work is ethnicity. The 
Irish of Chicago are Farrell's specialty and 
t•ach character description presents a clear 
and lasting glimpse into immigrant culture. 
Stud's friends are Bill Donaghue, Danny 
O'Neill. TB McCarthy, and Weary Reilley. 
Sounds somewhat like the Notre Dame 
directory. Studs also has to deal with the 
Catholic school system. and his descriptions 
of Sister Battling Bertha and Sister Ber­
nadette Marie should sound familiar 
to many Domers Those on the outside are 
typed by the young gang according to their 
ancestry and religion. There is plenty of 
rivalry between St. Patrick's and the Greek 
school down the street. 
l'nd!'rstanding l'ndprstanding: The New (;uid!' to (;ptting Along With Others by Dr. lllllll(Jhrp~· Osmond with John :\. Osmund­S('Il and .Jprom!' :\gel. Bantam Rooks. 208 (1!-(S. $1.ll5 
The difficulty in understanding l'n­dt·rstanding t·nderstanding is nearly in­superable. The subject matter is easy (•nough: the concepts wouldn't phase any mildly intelligent high school psychology dass. It's simply hard to understand how such a disjointed and inept manuscript ever managed to stumble into print. Instead of providing the answe··s and discoveries it promtses on •ts cover. i' raises a puzzling 
•1uery of its <~W>•. where the hell were the Pd!:ors of Bantam when ."tis plum hit the -, ~ubh~;-, ·~ i-.11t=l·~ : ,..,1rly .•"-onP in tht: business was 
i,; · -;,·g '..' --thP ·c"•V<:i' was desigae•·. The _,, 13;· .., .---•. -,.11~· le 

rt IS : . 
.:d 
-'  
!~ -. ! ~­'; ! : ) .• :JI!i·fi~".-.:1 ll!:-!":~p~ \_·'' ·"\··· .. lj•. <f;:  ~r-J- 

just ask james t. farrell 
The connection between Farrell and his famous character is strong and obvious. The author was born in 1904 and fought his way to adulthood on Chicago's South Side. After graduating from a Catholic high school there, Farrell spent three years at the University of Chicago but left to pursue a variety of odd jobs and colorful places. He began writing in 1929 and his first notice came with the publication of Young Lonigan in 1932. 
Farrell became a celebrity in 1937 when an obscenity charge was brought against A World I Nt>vt>r Made. Farrell's ac­complishments since then have included almost every genre of literature. He has written twenty-two novels (most recently Invisible Swords), eleven volumes of poetry, criticism and essays, and fourteen eollections of short stories. Some of Jo'arrell's works include Tommy Gallagher's ('rusade, Wht>n Boyhood Dreams Come Trut>. Frt>nch Girls are Vicious, My Bast>ball Diary. and Tht> Silence of History . 
Farrell's latest offering, Judith and Other Short Stol'ies. presents eleven character sketches. In most of these stories, nothing really happens. The main characters are given a free rein to narrate a part of their lives and some of the people that touch them. Each of the narratives is very blunt and simply told. They are condensed packages of life, loneliness, and society. There is very little emotion, none of it passionate or violent. Most of the people are middle-aged, Irish, middle-class and in­dependent. 
The title story is told by Ed, and revolves around his relationship with the title eharacter. a successful and lonely concert pianist. There is also Moira, Phyliis, Andy, and other assorted friends and lovers. In another selection, Farrell adds ~ hint of autobiography to the story of a successful author returning to his hometown of Chicago for a guest lecture. In the one story with a view to current events, Farrell has his friend and author Eddie Ryan visiting Israel and discussing impending war with a journalist friend and several Jewish acquaintances. 
) 
•




IS this underStood? 
Spanish exam), how to decorate a home for the insane (Chapter Four), and the mistake of Marx and Engels (it's all there on pp. 187­B). B£>yond taking a load off Edward K£>nnedy's conscience, these relevant ex­('Ursions into the Less-Than-Pressing Issues of the Day accomplish or illyminate little. And the typology is obscured beneath them. 
This is all very fortunate, 6ecause Dr. Dsmond's ideas. explained in Chapters Two and Three and elaborated into group theory in Chapter Nine. contain some merit, He and his colleagues, basing their work on .lung and a Dr. l{enee Nell, have developed a typology for classifying basic personality :ypes. The four basic functions, accm·ding to this 3ystem. are Sensation, F'<·c •:',, Thinking. and Intuition ..·:ertain person· · ' traits correspond to the various types. ,...,, .•xan,:··P :,-,,:;victuals whose dom 
Jil. --.•. -· 
''t----C:··:! 
-.: -l~-­

I~ '-,
I,~~.:_ t). ', i ._..l ,(~y,;·_l'll vi-;._:;c,t, .. 

by marlene zloza 
In all of these tales, words serve as cool ~unds that soothe and float somewhen. up above the noise and chaos in the street. Farrell's style has mellowed drastically since he created Studs Lonigan and his gang. No longer scandalous, Farrell's art 
a review by don roos 
further refine the system, sixteen basic functional types constitute the typology. 
Once the ropes are mastered the typology works out as a sort of intellectual's astrology. Like politics it makes strange bed-fellows. Hitler and Joan of Arc are fellow lntuitives; and, as surprising as it ma·y be to Pat, Richard Nixon and James Bond are cast from the same Sensation mold. 
"owever interesting and fun it may be to :1pply the typology, we are given no grounds tor believing it an accurate reflection of :•uman personality. Osmond does attempt LO show ihat the four basic types arose ;Jistorically as mental functions evolved in hP '"';;g process of man's confrontation with . !u~ environment, but the effort is cursory 
" 'eeble. He never ::esponds' to doubts 
,. :,_·,,validity ,f:;; typology so broad and 
~-rl = ~--·--:n a_, n1 i.:::~f-~ ant~ misirl­
c '· .·_· 

• LS 1;i~ence. -·, ·,111ittin15 a 
... ;or ..'lst<K·.' ;-~i~gates ·. •._· II :• rrnc lai·,, 
-_-r 
ts ~.·.:,:-;_~. !•1: 

has been developed and refined into a conservative and intensely personal style. Anybody who is Irish, and-or Catholic, and­.or just curious, would find it very enjoyable to spend an evening in the company of James Farrell and his Chicago buddies. 
striking of these in Osmond's glaring inability to compose a coherent chapter.. His achievements in this field are tr!Jly remarkable. "The Special World of Drugs" disregards its charter and trips off into discussions of not only drugs, but of poetry 
(Osmond waxes profound and quotes Henley l, Sherlock Holmes. Victorian morality, literature. and Timothy Leary. At this point we are told parenthetically that both Kennedy and Huxley died on November 22, 1963. The power of this as non sPquitur is unparalleled. The unifying theme of the chapter which supposedly unifies these disparities is anybody's guess 
This might seem unfair, concentrating on lhe flaws of the book by quoting ou; :-f context and refusing to take it :-s a s• · \•·:-~rk. But even in eoHiext Osn.on'' s· out of it, a fault th;>t G'"'d editing ­'"·· .·t:)ed..•s for tak' 1g an~· ·· ~·· · •·· 
·:le ret;ders ,..m --:1_--.,a. 
aut:·,,.,,' and ;:,i~ ;;:':.;Jer:::. ,.,.., 
---(~U:;v.., t •a~ ·'--r~se -_:I!.. ~r :~ 
--~ .·.; 
:. 
.. ..; .­

....·:·.:~>-~~::~.:~;:;::~~~::. ::'-'·.'.. :-~~·-·-~i-:"!·t-f£ ~-j :·.,_~::., 
. Y ~0 • i.>CJti:1U 
-. #,. .. •• ,. 
't t • I 'j()flE "-~-1 .:-J:_ ·, 

the observer Tuesday, March 4, 1975 
At Dartmouth College 
Timesharing program widens computer use 
IIANOVEH, N.H. (UPil -On hours to lecture about things he most college campuses students 
never had time for before," head for the library to work on 
Byrne said. Courses involving complexassignml•nts. At Dartmouth computations can give morethey are apt to head for the realistic problems. One studentcomputer. 
"'We feel we're just as did tabulations on how the 
suburbs voted in 1972, findingimportant a part of the on most issues they votedPducation program as the library," said Thomas Byrne, 
conservatively. assistant director for adminis­
"The paper he did for one tration at the Kiewit Computa­
course would have gotten him a tion CPntPr. 
Ph.D in years past" because it !\lore than 90 per cent of the 
would have taken that much 
roughly 4,000 Dartmouth stu­effort to get statistics together dPnls make use of the computer and analyze them, Byrne said. and more than !50 courses use Widespread use of Dart-it as an integral part of the 
mouth's one computer is possible because of the work arourse. 
"'0 n t' man computerized decade ago by two Dartmouth somt' lectures so they were self­professors-John G. Kemeny, tt•aching. This gave him two now president of the college, and Thomas E. Kurtz, now
IllinOiS ERA vote director of Kiewit. 
They did two things that have 

helped revolutionize th,f com-
set for Tuesday puter industry worldwide. 
They worked out a timeshar-

Sl'IUNGFIELD, Ill. <UPil -ing program which allows The proposed Equal Rights many people to use a large AmPndment to the United central computer at the same States Constitution is scheduled time, while it seems to each for its fourth vote in as many user he has exclusive use of the 
years Tuesday in the Illinois system. Senate. And they invented a comput-
Sponsors say they have er language, called BASIC, 
Pnough votes to win ratification which lets computer users give 
provided they can get them all commands in simple English instead of complex mathemati­cal formulas. 
"MIT had done some work on timesharing. We tried to do a less expensive version," Byrne said. 
Kemeny and Kurtz felt one reason it was impractical to introduce students to the computer was that the lan­guage was too complex. 
"They tried to design a language using simple English words to transmit commands to the computer. BASIC turned out to be so simple a student could learn it in two hours," he said. 
It now is the most popular language worldwide for use in timesharing programs. It is powerful because of its range of commands. With it, for exam-pie, you can edit texts, work in graphics and retrieve informa­tion. 
BASIC uses self-explanatory word commands such as "stop, run. print, end, list, read, write, scratch, go to, sort." Another important word is "let," as in mathematical formulas like "let X equal Y." 
General Electric picked up the timesharing program, co­pied it around the country, and was so pleased it entered into a three-year research oroiect with Dartmouth and gave "the school a new $2.5 million computer. 
"The Dartmouth Time Shar­ing System was raised in a college environment so our applications are peculiarly suit­Pd to a college environment," Byrne said. It has been leased to prep schools around New England, to several major companies, and to the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis. 
The system has a library of BOO programs which can do anything from help design bridges to send out town water bills. to play word games with children-a good way to get them interested in using a tool which can give help in almost any field. 
"WP assume a great number of Dartmouth graduates will get into positions where they have to make decisions. With the world as it is, these decisions likely will involve information stored in a com­puter," Byrne said. 
"'We think it's essential the students u n d e r s t a n d the capabilities and limitations of the computer," he said. 
Kemeny is fond of saying "one Dartmouth student in an afternoon can accomplish what 15 of the world's most distinguished scientists did in a year and a half at Los Alamos." 
He should know. As a mathematical prodigy, he was at Los Alamos working on developmPnt of the atomic bomb. 
The Fightin Irish Cheerleaders 
Invite All NO & SMC Students to Try out for '75-'76 cheerleader for Football & Basketball. 
Organizational Meeting Thurs. March 6 6:00 pm An ela Hall St. Mar 's Cam , 
on the Senate floor at the same ,------------------------------------------------------.,
time. They already have I 1 
postponed the issue twice this I 
year because of absenteeism. I 
Both opponents and propo-1 nents gathered at the Capitol in I a last-minute swirl of lobbying I activity. 
Proponents hoped to break an 
I 
almost unbroken string of setbacks which has seen ERA I defeated or bottled up so far I this' year in Oklahoma, Arizona, I Nevada, Georgia, Utah, In-I diana, Virginia and Louisiana. 1 
Although supporters had pre-I dieted they would sweep to I ratification this year in the 1 needed 38 states, only one -1 North Dakota -so far has been 1 added to the "ratified" column. I Four more are needed. 
In previous years, opponents 
I 
have handed out home-baked bread and Valentine's cards to I lawmakers in hopes of swaying I their votes. And when Gov. I Daniel Walker urged ratifica-I tion of the ERA in his "State of I the State" message last month, 1 shouts of derision from the 1 House galleries drowned out his I voice. 
Despite the opposition, Sen. 
1
Esther Saperstein, D-Chicago, I 
estimates that she has enough ,·otes to pass the ratification 1 resolution she introduced. 1 
If the Senate does okay the 
I 
ratification resolution, it will go I 
to the House for further action. I 
The House, also operating 
under the three-fifths ruling, I 
twice has rejected the ERA. I 
Girouard named I 
1 
new News Editor I 
Km Girouard, a sophomore 
J 
from Louisville, Kentucky, has 
been named observer News I 
Editor. His appointment is ef-I 
rective today. 1 
Girouard has worked with the I 
ohst·•wr for two years as staff 1 
reporter, day editor, and copy 1 
reader. He replaces Terry 
1
Kceney, recently-elected Editor-I 
in-Chief. 
Also appointed to the Editorial 1 Board is Patrick Hanifin, a 1 sophomore government major 1 
from Honolulu, Hawaii, who will II 
assume his duties as campus Jo:ditor today. Hanifin's ap-1 pointment is also effective today. I 
Hanifin has served for two years I as staff reporter and this year as .I copy reader. Hanifin and Girouard will share I responsil>ilitv for the Observer I 
1 
1 1 
II 
1
1 
I 
I 
I 
I 
1 
I 
I 
I 
1 
1 
1 1
1 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I
1
1 
Q[CK (lJT THIS PIUJIW•1 DtJRJ!~ 11 W\RCH 3-7 AT THE riJRTH AND SCl.JfH I
1 
DINH~ HALJ..S. 1 

Newer Math. I 
I
1 
I 
I 
If you're a sophomore it's not too late to enroll in Army ROTC. 1 Under the Two-Year Program you can attend a six-week Basic Camp 1 next summer, take ROTC in your junior and senior years, and receive I 
a commission along with your diploma. In other words, complete a 1
1
f d
four-year course in just two years!· And i you're a veteran you on't I k 1 I 
even have to attend the six-wee Basic Camp. 1 
I
Army ROTC will also pay you $100 a month while you're tn 1 
1
school (for you vets, that's in addition to your GI Bill) to spend as 1 you wish. 1
1 Army ROTC has a lot more to offer, too. For more information call 1
1 or write: ARI~1Y ROTC @mr.Army D·OTC II UrJIVERSllY (f ['JOTRE DN[ •~ I 
fiOifRE D,/HIIC, IIJ 4rs.Jr:6 The more you look at I 
111 JC U

283-6264/6265 it, the better it looks. 11 I 
I 
news depan.. 't L. I 
------~--~-------------­
Liberal arts programs threatened 
by Fr. James T. Burtchaell C.S.C., overshadowing more desired Indiana's private colleges and private provision of public services 
by Brian nancy 
University provost, Dr. Wayne J. goals such as, "development of the universities could provide between in lieu of their provisions by the Staff Reporter Gerber, academic dean of Bethel inner character of students" and 13,000 and 10,000 additional municipality... and more than Financial pressures threaten College, and Dr. William A. "the creation of well-rounded students with a first rate education counter-balance the imputed cost student oriented values and Hickey, acting president of St. students. at a substantial cost saving to the of municipal-type services 
teaching emphasis of independent Mary's College. "It is plain tHat financial and taxpayer, if ·the students were provided by the town to the 
The report cited "a tension given moderate financial support wearers of the gown."
institutions of higher education in credentialing needs have tended to Indiana, according to a study of between the concern for in­mute a historical emphasis on a the report contended. Several conclusions were also 
stitutional survival and the
Indiana's 32 private colleges and general education with strong It also asserted that state aid is a reached by the report, regarding universities. student-oriented values moral overtones," said the report. very crucial factor for many of the the "composite student" enrolled 
The report, sponsored by the traditionally associated with a The financial health of in­students presently enrolled in in Indiana's private colleges and Associated Colleges of Indiana and liberal arts education". dependent higher education was Indiana's private colleges and universities. "He or she," the the Independent Colleges and According to the report ad-described as, "reasonably good" universities. "Almost one in five report asserted, "has come to Universities of Indiana, Inc., was , ministrators, saw survival issues but suffering from under . students receives state scholarship college primarily to 'gain released yesterday morning at a such as "insuring the confidence of enrollment and endowments in­awards and grants, and without knowledge' but also wants 'to learn 
joint news conference in the Center contributors" and "securing sufficient to keep pace with in­such aid the vast majority would skills necessary for a job and a for Continuing Education attended financial soundness" as the flation. not have been able to attend the career.' "The average student," it
institution of their choice." 
continued, "did better than thePrivate higher education's share national average in high schoolof statewide student enrollment in work, and this academic
SBP debate tentativelyplanned 
Indiana fell from 37 per cent to 27 achievement will continue in post­per cent in the last decade while secondary studies. He or she isthe tuition gap between private
b~· Mark .Jahne Corpora's platform and we can commiSSioners. Winners in that satisfied with the school chosen,
and public institutions grew from
Staff Reporter balloting were Dave Carlyle, Julie and is highly unlikely to transfer or
discuss them." 
$650 to $1,185. "The situation 
Corpora, who received 19.4 per Engelhart. Timothy Hake, Thomas drop out before graduation."
A debate between the two argues for some form of state 
cent of the vote, said he doesn't Martiny, Lisa Molidor, Frank A final point made by the report 
finalists in the election for student support, either for tuition payers
Musica and Maureen Power. was that Indiana is the first state to
body president, Ed Byrne and Joe have any specific plan for the or for institutions," the report
debate. "We'll just go back and Engelhart was the top vote-getter. have all its independent in·
Corpora. has been tentatively concluded.
Hl•rb Thiele, chairman of the stitutions share cost figures forforth. I hope we get a lot of people
scheduled for 11:40 tonight at Private educational institutions
there to hear us." Piection committee, noted that a instructional programs and toStanford-Keenan. This will be were seen as beneficial to local and 
slight change may be made in the have them adopt a standardized
their last chance to campaign prior The debate can only be termed state economics. "The 32 in­
dinnertime voting hours Wed­reporting procedure. 
to the run-off vote this Wednesday. tentative at this time because dependent colleges and univer­
nesday. Lunch hour voting hours "These data," the report states, 
when contacted, Keenan Hall sities of Indiana in fiscal 1973 were
Byrne. the leading vote-getter in will be the same as meal hours in "will put into perspective the fact
President Biff King had not yet directly responsible for additional
~·esterday's primary with 26.3 per the dining hall. A decision as to that while independent institutions cent of the total vote, said about been informed of it. whether or not to alter the voting in-state expenditures of $252 extract a high charge from their the debate. "We think our platform While Corpora and Byrne won in timl' will be reached by the elec­consumers, their cost is not per se, 
million per year from their own is solid and we can defend it. We the SBP race. yesterday's voting tion committee sometime this day-to-day operations, and from expensive or inefficient. 
expenditures .by their faculties,
feel there are a lot of holes in also chose next year's seven Inpirg afternoon. The study on which the report is 
staffs, students, and visitors. 
based was underwritten by a grant
Three men sought The report continued, " ... many from the Lilly Endowment Inc., functions of importance to the and directed by Dr. William W. community are provided at little or Jellema, president of Wartburg
Factory blast causes job loss 
no cost, and as such represent a College, Waverly, Iowa. 
SHELTON. CONN. <UP}) -!<'or other means of claiming respon-The Connecticut Labor authorities it means hunting down, sibility for terrorism, and now are Department opened an emergency three men who blasted away a $10 known as the "Weather Un-office in the nearby Fowler School THE NOTRE 'DAME STUDENT UNION million sponge rubber factory. For derground." and staffed it with 80 employees 800 workers the devestation means No other motives were ad-who processed between 300 and PROUDLY PRESENTS hunting for new jobs in a depressed vanced. The I<'BI entered the case 400 claim~ from displaced factory Pconomy. because explosives were used. workers. 
Roy Ranno, 44, was one of The terrorists who took Ranno "I don't know where I'm going to hundreds of men in this industrial and three other plant employees at look for another job," said Ranno, 
FREEPORT
town out looking for work Monday. gunpoint apparently were familiar a 24 year employee of the plant On Saturday night his job as with explosives and their use. formerly owned by Goodrich. It In The Bahamas factory guard got him abducted at Plastic bombs reportedly were sold its Connecticut operations last gunpoint by three masked men used at three points inside the April, and taxes on the building who later detonated three bombs factory, although the FBI would and property have been paid by the For s249 that leveled the sprawling sponge neither confirm nor deny the prospective new owners, Grand Hubber Products Co. plant. report. Sheet Metal Co., of Ohio. 
8 days I 7 nights March21 -28 
:~~~:r;}l~~,:~v:;~r ~2;i ;=:··············~·········L···E····,_··············i=. 
Includes
through the building and lighted the sky for miles around. The plant was a total loss. : : 
* Round Trip Air Transportation on 
One of the intruders suggested to : • the workers that they belonged to •ALL A p SIGN 2 01 ff • 
a DC-9 Leaving from South Bend 
the radical "Weathermen." But • L IN E DE 0 Jo 0 : the FBI said Monday there is no .:ALL CAMP 7 SLEEPING BAGS 20% off: 
* 
Accomodations 

proof of this claim. • Ordinarily, the radicals use !ALL DOWN PARKAS 20% off: 
* In Flight Service -· * U.S. Departure Tax
Study indicates !GERRY "Traveler" PACK 20% off! : AND SERIES 71 FRAME : 
Enjoy Swimming, Golf Tennis, or 
a bleak economy: (No layaways, returns, or exchanges . : 
Anything You Want In the Bahamas 
• on sales merchandise) • : SALE APPLIES TO SALE ENDS : : IN-STOCK MERCHANDISE MARCH 8, 1975 : 
$50 DEPOSIT WITH SIGN-UP 
Sign Up At S.U. Ticket Office

: Sierra 8ports'i 
t 

OPEN TO ALL MEMBERS OF 
N.D. COMMUNITY 
I 

-j 
l
I 
1 





The ObServer 
an independent student newspaper Founded November 3, 1966 Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief Bob Zogas Business Manager Bob McManus Advertising Manager 
EDITORIAL BOARD Terrv Ke~ney, News Editor; AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Fred Graver. Editorial Editor Jeanne Murphy, Copy Editor; Robert Baker, Features Editor; Greg Corgan. Sports Editor Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Chris Smith, Photo Editor; Bill Brink, Senior Night Editor Eder. Ann MeCarry, Pattie Cooney, Zenon Bidzinski. Marlene Zloza, Contributing Editors 
Business: 283-7471
Editorial.: 283-8661 News: 283-1715 
Tuesday, March 4, 1975 

fram the editar!s desk: 
The New Look 
Today, March 4, 1975, the Observer inaugurates its new masthead design. The change marks our transition from a shaky, bi-weekly birth in 1966 to that of a solid, journalistic pursuit nearly ten years later. We have designed this change to signal a new direction, not only in our ap­pearance, but in our purpose. With a pledge of reverence for our past, we now embrace the promise of the future. 
Evolution of the new mast began last March. Based on a realization of the potential The Obsel'!er possessed, a search began for a new design to represent and initiate our new energy. We wanted to make declaration to this university community through an expanded definition the important responsibility that our work has always had and will continue to seek. With firm commitment , we wanted a new beginning . 
One year later, after having experimented with countless typefaces and considerable designs, we selected this masthead. By no means is it intended to be viewed as a quick, cheap change but rather as a developed, well-thought out representation of our position as a daily college newspaper. The final design was conceived by senior Mike Mroz with input from several of our editors. Bill Brink and Chris Smith, par­ticularly, provided many ideas. 
It was during the process of selection that our realization of potential finally crystalized. This masthead engenders a new identity for the Observer. We feel that we have realized a position on campus of active leadership in addition to our journalistic endeavor. 
This additional responsibility of leadership has been developing for sometime in the opinions expressed on this page. Our new masthead is meant to externalize this realization; it is just not a signal to begin but to develop. 
Let it be understood, though, that only through our total commitment and dedication to provide a medium for reporting and interpreting the lifestream of Notre Dame can we embrace this responsibility of leadership. This masthead christens our dedication to responsible 
journalism and active leadership. 
The masthead for us will now symbolize something more than our newspaper. It will be a reminder of our commitment of service and !..adership at Notre Dame. And may it serve to inspire the dedication and idealism for Observer staffs to come. 
will l'all us to a Jife-stvle of those otht'rs who ventured on exodus 
into the unknown. like ; man named· .\braham and anolher they
tam drape 
caijpd .IPSUS. 

'-~~ ':~EScURY by Garry Trudeau 
l! 

1-!l!JN/Jt/lPil,, ·wx.-r-.rtl Cf'i,I 

. 
·-'f?Or£S50R.. ll' 11/EU, THANK :J./OUJI I ,1-ff,JN, . , :XJNT /(J/0/U. . O'R£ 7/)(J /t;NP{RfUL'­l /rJU I 'IOU R£AU'l .:<Ni'(.(i • I JUST SCKT ,•roa:sr. cAN C:V7 7HINI< OF ~ APPR£0AT£ :'OUR UIAYA~WAO II ' rJF CJ!CKE/) ~-.Jt/'1 YfJ{j · -··16H SUI-'f.~-:·,J·· I "lf.-1{ .. --~ ;Jf-·.;"}r{ /~~:~-~ ~'::· 1 /.....,. /P.. ~ iJRINK'? 
-~·,':'/1. 
. . '"''
:"1", 
t 
' 
''. 'I 
. -~ 
Dpinian 


Into The Unknown 
fr. bill /taahey 
It's hard to imagine a time when students were faced with such uncertainty about their futures. Today's seniors wonder whether the long lines they find themselves in outside the Placement Office will simply be replaced with those outside employment offices back home once they graduate. They wonder if perhaps the only job they'll have next year will be the job of finding a job. 
During Vietnam, there was uncertainty, but at least most of the men knew what they would be doing after graduation. Now students more than ever are making decisions for careers based on the job market--a very disturbing thing to see. And none of this relieves the already inordinant stress on marks, the bloody com­petition. the rampant cheating. 
All of this confronts students today with one of the truly significant challanges of life. We are all called to go forward into the unknown. To do this as a student, or graduating senior, is not pleasant or easy. It means a kind of plunge, a risky, scary business, especially if a person is going to struggle to remain true to using his or her talents to the full. 
Too many people still come to this place asking the wrong question. They ask: "When I graduate, what am I going to do? What job will I be qualified for?" The right question is: "When I graduate , what am I going to •be? What kind of person will I become?"" 
In times of uncertainty, one is tempted to be even more utilitarian-minded than usuaL It takes a special kind of courage to go forward on principles that are not dominated mostly by salary considerations, fringe benefits, material allurement, and a list of guarantees that rule out uncertainties. 
It is one of the truly exciting aspects of working at a place like 
this to see numerous students who welcome the unknown, who 
search for new directions, in tune with God's personal call to them. 
ThoseJor example, who consider new life styles that might just 
mt>an Jess income; those who dedicate themselves to serve the disadvantaged through some form of social work; those who channel 
their futures as lawyers or doctors according to the needs of the 
dt>prived and oppressed. 

The temptation to settle for second best, to compromise in order to dasp a slice of certainty and supposedly escape the risk of the unknown--this is a great temptation for all of us, not just students. ( ln his recent visit to our campus, Bill Coffin told about the sad case of the twenty undergraduate I<:nglish teachers at Yale who are scrambling over one another trying to get tenure. He said: "They all know none of them is going to get it; yet they carry on in a state of unreality, as though, somehow, the impossible can be changed just by frantic behavior. Their sick efforts to avoid the inevitable vulnerability of life are a sad commentary on our times." 
Administrators are also quite susceptible to the allurement of 
certainty. safety. freedom from the unknown. How pasy it is to 
beeome surrounded by fearful men, who will do almost anything to 
preserve their jobs. The man on top can become isolated from 
honest critique and creative dissent, hemmed in by yes-men who 
dedicate themselves with a passion to pleasing "the boss" at 
all costs. There is a saying: "The day a man is placed on top is the 
last day he'll ever have a had mt>al or hear the truth." 
Marriage is another dramatic example of the journey into the 
unknown. Dick Conklin has written well about this in the <'Urr£>nt 
:'\ntrc• llame i\Iagazin.-: "Pt>rhaps the first thing we ought to tell 
young persons about marriage is that it is hard work. That is also 
tht> second thing we should tell them. because they are not apt to 
lwlieve it the first time. Tht>n we should tell them that the marriage 
t·ommitmPnt is open-ended and that is why they really know 
not what they do. They know not where the relationship will lead 
1t may md in pain and bitterness. It may force personal growth 
that could not be fostered in any other way. It may reap a reward 
as unconditioned as the vow." 
That says it' Open-ended: not knowing where commitment will 
lt>ad: a risk that takes you in the unknown. This is really what all 
of life is about. It will cost us to be true to our best selves. to our 
(;od. and to one another. as we go forward into the uncertainty 
ahPad. 

Ll'tting go of safety and security-at-any-price will make us \'ll)nt•rabll'. It Will lead us into waters uncharted except by fa1th. It 
the 0::,c; erver 

Night Editor: ,.'<•niel Sanchez Asst. Niqht c!l'1.:··; 'iod"tha ""cu1nirorJ 
Layout Staff·  Bot--,·irl:  li\,ilt .•  • -,  :•i:>·:l  
T0m c·Nei!  :.\;,;.  -~·  ,,  •  :"Inc;"  
Day Euitor  "'  
:oo:-­ .< ~ao;;.  
~d~~,-,("  .  ":'"  

'' • I'

. . .' ..
.' .. ., .. ,... .; ...... I • I 4 \ •
... ... " .. . 
I I I

......, ..~; ...: ' J .ty,....." 
. , , 
... l' '
.:. 

'I .--.-... ~ ) .. '' 
'' t •••
.. '. 'i.'' 

----.:-­
Budget priorities group_ proposed 
(continued from page 1) 
President and representative from the Law School. praised Joyce's proposal. 
"Fr.. Joyce's presentation anC. Fr. Hl'sburgh 's remarks were very candid and thorough," Beatch said. "I'm very pleased they are going to set up the Budget Priorities Committee." 
Paul Conway, associate professor of Finance, cited some of the priorities such a committee must decide. Conway stated that, according to Joyce, the University applies funds from unrestricted gifts (some $1.5 million each yearl to a reserve fund for building replacement and renewal. 
lnitiation rite 
"It's a question of choice of priority," he siad. "That $1.5 .million could be used for many 
things." 
Conway noted that the Faculty 
Senate had proposed that the 
llniversity change its priority on 
the reserve fund and use the $1.5 
million for other purposes, such as 
faculty salaries. 
1\lt•mbt>l"ship on committee 
The Budget Priorities Com­
mittee will consist of the president, 
the provost, the main financial 
officers. and deans of the colleges, 
and "four or five faculty mem­
bers." 
Watch objected to such limited 
rnl'mbership and proposed that students be allowed on the com­mittee. 
"The one thing I'd like to see is some responsible student representation on the committee," he said. Veatch proposed that the student body president or vice president porvide student input on the budget decisions. 
Conway emphasized that faculty members should be representative and be elected by the faculty." 
"I hope they would be selected by the faculty, not appointed by the Administration," Conway said. 
l.ikt> Faculty Senate proposal 
Conway stated that Joyce's proposal for a Budget Priorities Committee closely resembles a 
Seven charged -with :murder 
SAN FRANCISCO <UPil ­Four young black men went on trial Monday, charged with the random killing of unsuspecting white persons on the streets in what was described as an "initiation rite" for a black militant organization. 
Superior Judge Joseph Ka­said he would go ahead and start selecting jurors, but might interrupt proceedings a few days later in the week. 

White is the attorney for Larry Craig Green, 23, Manuel Moore, 30, and J. C. Simon, 29. The fourth defendant is Jessie 
Less. 29. 
case solved and described an underground black racist or­ganization called the "Death Angels" which tested its new members by having them kill white persons. 
The seven men arrested were also 
Black Muslims. ' Faculty Senate proposal for a Budget Priorities Committee, passed last semester. 
"Even the choice of name was the same as the Faculty Senate choice of name," Conway said. "This proposal covers many areas that the Faculty Senate did." 
James Cushing, chairman of the Faculty Senate, agreed with Conway. Although the Senate report recommended about a"a half dozen" faculty members, "it sounds similar to what Fr. Joyce said," Cushing siad. 
.Joyce argued that his proposal was in no way caused by the Faculty Senate proposal. "It had nothing to do with their proposal," he said. "but maybe it would ac­complish what they want to do." 
"I would have made the proposal anyway," Joyce concluded. 
C'using took issue with Joyce's statement that especially faculty salaries are a priority for university funds. He cited the $600 faculty salary supplement granted by Fr. Hesburgh last semester. Cushing argued that the sup­plement was given only because the university had a budget sur­plus. 
"Salaries is clearly not the number one priority," he said. "The supplement was the money they felt they had left over. These type things come when there is a surplus they can use for that," Cushing charged. 
The proposal for the Budget Priorities Committee must be sent to a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees later this month. 
Calt>ndar vote 

In other action the Academic Concil voted unanimously that the academic calendar for Fall 1975, drafted after the instructions from the February vote of the Academic t'ouncil. met with the approval of the Council. 
The vote was made necessary by confusion surrounding the calendar. The vote of the Council indicated that the published calendar was in accord with the guidelines imposed by the Council and represented proper ad­ministrative discretion. 
"The whole purpose of the vote was to show that the Academic Council was not overriden," said .Jim Ambrose. Student Govern­ment Academic Commissioner. 
\'eatch added, "In my mind the Academic Council wasn't making a ealendar, it was setting up princi pies.'' 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Need riders to Pittsburgh. Leave Fri. March 7 & return Sunday March 9. call 289-3702 $14 round trip. 
Bass player wanted~ experienced with own equipment into Jazz. Rock Blues. Contact Rick 287~8406 or Tom 234-0091 
Wanted: 2-man tent for Spring Break. Call 289-6760 
Need ride 3-13 to New England, back by 3-17 Jim 8927 
Wanted: 2 1970 Cotton Bowl victory Football Banners 18" by 36" will pay reasonable price.Ciay Wright 219-287-6084 
Wanted: Joe Lizard. Guilty of impersonating an electrical engineer, drum captain, and vice. president. If found, exterminate. 
Ride needed to New Caanan, Conn. (or NYC area) for Spring Break. Call Kathy at 4436 
Need ride to NYC area for Spring Break. Call Lou 8621 
Roomm"ate wanted, beautiful apartment $65 monthly. Call Fred 288-5646 
Wanted: a ride to Massachusetts tor Spring Break. Call Charlie at 8845 
FOR SALE 
Flying Junior sailboats for sale. 13'3" Good condition, Notre Dame Sailing Club. 8312 or 1150 
For sale: p,artial set of irons. $25 or best otter. Call 272~9707 
Bell & Howell Receiver, small Advent speakers, $180. John 1192 
Pioneer 1010 receiver. Dokorder 7500 reel-to-reel. Phone 1945. 
NOTICES 

Accurate fast typing. North-east section of South Bend. Reasonable. 
Phone 232-0746 
Need a ride over Spring Break. Wilson Driveaway has cars going to many destinations in the U.S. & your only expense is gas. For info call Jim at 1694 Western Electronic 24 hour TV service. 1530 Western Ave. 282-1955 
GOOD TICKETS FOR THE FRANKIE VALLI & THE FOUR SEASONS CONCERT MARCH 8 AT MORRIS CIVIC ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE. ALL SEATS RESERVED. 
GOOD TICKETS FOR THE MARCH 12 JOE WALSH CON­CERT AT THE A.C.C. ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE. 
Medical, Dental and Law School applicants: Perhaps we can help you get accepted. Box 16140 St. Louis, MO. 63105 
Over Seas jobs~ Australia, Europe, 
S. America, Africa, Students all professions and occupations $700~ $3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing. Free in­formation. Transworld Research Co. Dept. F3, P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA. 94925 
SUMMER IN EUROPE. UNI­TRAVEL CHARTERS AT LESS 
THAN  1f2  REG.  ECONOMY  
FARE,  65  DAY  ADVANCE  
PAYMENT  REQUIRED.  U.S.  

GOVT APPROVED. TWA-PAN AM-TRANSAVIA 707's. CALL TOLL FREE 1-800~325-4867 
FOR RENT 

Furnished apt, second floor. Gas Heat furnished 289-6307, 234-0596 
Apartments for summer sublease. Good condition, close to campus. Call 272-4156 or 277-0130 
For Rent: Furnished houses available now for summer and fall rental. Phone: 289-2602 or 234-9364 
LOST & FOUND 

Lost 1 pocket calculator in black case at Saint Mary's. Please call 
4444 

Lost: Gold banded ring with yellow stone in Galvin Life Building about 2 weeks ago !1st floor) If found, please call Tim, 3633: Reward 
Lost: 1 blue and gold Buffalo Sabres hat. If found, please call 
1200 
PERSONALS 

Happy Birthday Buh Your HTH 
Slick, The Library, Mardi Gras, Grilled Cheez, Lorna Doones, Sore Feet and a Pizza Kiss make me sure that the devil has gone to dinner for good. Skinny 
Come & celebrate a first: Kat Beauliew passing out legally tonight at the Library 
TAKE TIME...weekend retreat · Fr. Dave Burrell· March 7 !Fri. eve) to 9(Sun. a.m.) Make reservation in campus ministry office (103 Library) $6 tee, $3 payed at registration 
g. bangs: hype.-hype. toujours !'amour: b.s. 
Anita, Susie, Nance, Joan, Barb, Burschy, and Brownman; It was a pleasure, thank you. T.R. 
Reservations still available for a birthday sail with Buzz Reynolds. Call 1150 after 4:00 PM 
Happy 20th Birthday, Buzzie! Alter tonight, you'll tell us when you're 21. Your Crew 
Buzz, We were going to take you to J.D. Guts and buy you an Arnold tor you B-day, but we got ship wrecked. Your Crew. 
Happy B-day, Sweetie! My love tor you could melt the lake. Mary 
Happy B-day, Batman {The Sailor). I hope we meet again by the light of the silvery "Moon" Love, Meg 
Nutzie, Congrats on your first win of the year. Now you're only down $50. Keep trying. Lonely Hearts Club 
Foxy little lady, Sorry you are not feeling so good, and I hope everything is better real soon. Don't worry; we'll get JM. AH done together. love ya, Bear 
Captain Kanegus McRag, Congratulations to the greatest Notre Dame Swimmer ever. Tom, Dan, Steve. 
the observer Tuesday, March 4. 1975 
leers face Tech in playoff opener 
by Hob Kisst"l 
It's a good thing North Central Airlines runs a flight to the Upper Pt•ninsula. If there wasn't the daily flying dog sled, the Michigan Tech Huskies might not be able to claim membership in the WCHA and make thier run to the NCAA hockey title. 
But planes do run to Houghton, Michigan and the Notre Dame hockey team is in Houghton awaiting the first game of their semifinal playoff series against the lluskies. The two teams e.1gageina two-game, total goal serie>s for the 
right  to  advance  into  the  final  
playoffs,  next  Saturday  and  
Sunday.  

Thl' Irish have had their trouble all season with the John Macin­nes'-{:oached Huskies. losing a pair at home in December, 5-3 and 8-2, and also dropping a pair at Tech in Ft>bruary, 7-3 and 10-1. 
The Huskies finished their regular season by taking league champion and defending NCAA winner Minnesota to the cleaners twice over the weekend, 7-o and 5­
4. The sweep gave Tech its second place and the playoff berth against the seventh place squad, Notre Dame. 
A rule of thumb in the playoffs is that the team with the hot goal tender is a team to watch. Goaltender Jim Warden, after successfully eluding the dreaded Sport Illustrated jinx (a story on him is in the current issue), cer­tainly has to be regarded as in top shape and ready to stop those aspirin-tablet slapshots. Len Moher has been hot most of the season and was especially in form last Friday night against the Badgers, making 56 saves in a 3-3 deadlock 
The deciding factor between the teams should be two centers for Michigan Tech, Bob <the Roadrunner> D'Alvise and Mike Zuke. These two veteran center icemen lead lines that have been scoring to the tune of almost six goals per game. 
Any Macinnes coached Tech squad exhibits almost perfection in thl" fundamental of hockey­skating. Quickness and speed are the two words used most often to describe their attack. 
On defense and at goal the Huskies have been a wee bit stingy in allowing just over three goals per game. The blueliners are of course excellent skaters, but also play the physical game well. As another added woe to the Irish icers is the good scoring touch shown by the blueliners. 
Lefty Smith brings basically the same team to Houghton as he played over the weekend against the Badgers, with a few changes. Don Jackson will play left wing on 
Greg Corgan ::=======:::::=:=:=:::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:::=:=:=:=:=============:=====:=:=:=======:=======:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:: 
The Irish Eye 
:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::=:=:=:=:=:=·=:=:=:=:::::::::::::=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=·:::=·=:=:=:::::=··Fencing frosh 
This f<'riday and Saturday Notre llame will host the eighth annual Great Lakes Fencing Championship in the north dome of the A.C.C. 
The Great Lakes tourney compares in stature with the NCAA finals and is far and away the most prestigious of the winter fencing meets. This weekend the tourney will feature NCAA sabre champion Steve Denosi and NCAA foil champ Gary Benko both of Wayne State University. Denosi and Benko are also two-time Great Lakes winners. 
But perhaps the most interesting aspect of the meet will be the women's competition. This year there are a record 14 schools entering women's teams, and unlike the men, where there are foil, epee, and sabre entries, women fence only foil. Last year, the Great Lakes championship was won by Kathy Valdiserri who this year is still only a freshman at Notre Dame. 
The women's segment of the squad is still formally a club sport which is why Kathy was able to fence last year as a senior at South Bend St. Joe High School. Her victory in the Great Lakes was all the more impressive since there is no women's division in the NCAA fencing tournament. The women must prove themselves at invitationals like the Great Lakes. I<:ven more noteworthy is the fact that Kathy won the Great Lakes Championship with a record of 20-1 after having fenced for little more than a year. 
"I became interested one summer because I knew coach DeCicco and I happened to watch the Junior World Championships which were held here." she says. "I started working out that following year when I was a junior." 
Nonetheless, in her first competition, Kathy placed second in a meet in Chicago and since that time has been the mainstay of the women's club. Winning the Great Lakes last year capped a more than successful season for her. 
''It was unbelievable," Kathy says. "There I was fencing against these girls who wl"re all older than I was and all of a sudden I'm in the finals. That's when I started to panic." 
"She was definitely a dark horse to win it," adds DeCicco. "But Kathy is \'ery. vt>ry competitive and actually she won it going away." 
Why has she developed so strongly, so quickly? 
"I think because of the coaching of Coach DeCicco and his assistants," Kathy t>xplains. "The people on the men's team have helped me a lot too. l1sually. when I practice with them I ask for a lesson. I don't think I have any particularly noticeable physical advantages. I just ha tl' to lose." 
"It's also a plus that she's left-handed," offers DeCicco. "There aren't too many left-banders and so the right-handed fencers aren't used to f(•ncing someone like Kathy. But now, that"s all starting to balance out." 
As Ara Parseghian is always quick to point out, it's always tougher to n•peat as a champion than to win it the first time. This year, Kathy has that disarlvantage. "It's going to be a lot tougher this time," she says. "The competition will be much better. One girl from Illinois is ranked 14th in the nation and another from Indiana is supposed to be almost as good. Things will be a little rougher this year." 
But then again. she's the only freshman "veteran" on the squad. 

LOOKING FOR their first win against Michigan Tech this season, the leers travel to Houghton for 
the first round of the WCHA playoffs.  
the Fairholm line, while Dan Byers  one for this young Fighting Irish  Both  games,  Tuesday  and  
fills  the  position  vacated  by  hockey  team,  but  then  hockey  Wednesday  nights,  will  be  
Jackson on defense.  always  seems  to  produce upsets  broadcast live  by  WNDU's  Pete  
The road ahead is not  a  bright  right around playoff time.  Weber, starting at 7:30pm.  

Four left in cage playoffs 
by Fred llerbst 

As •Interhall Basketball ended 
playoff action on Sunday night, 
four teams remain in the running 
for the championship. 
In last Tuesday's action, Grace I 
edged Keenan I 40-38. Pangborn I 
rolled by Off -Campus III 59, 47, 
Dillon I beat Off-Campus II 68­
49and Cavanaugh I slipped past 
Off-Campus VII 59-58 in double 
overtime. Sunday's games saw 
Keenan I beat Cavanaugh I 57-47 
and Off-Campus II nicked Dillon I 
53-51. 
Grace I used strong defense to 
gain their win over Keenan I. 
Behind Rich Allocco, Randy 
Harrison and Steve Sylvester, 
Grace rolled to a 13 point lead in 
the first half. Keenan came out to 
start the second half by scoring 8 
unanswered points. Still Keenan 
could do no better than to pull into 
a tie, and eventually fell behind 
again. A blazing comeback by 
Keenan fell just short as they 
scored at the buzzer to make the 
margin of defeat only two points. 
In a battle of unbeatens, Pangborn I used 60 percent shooting from the field to defeat Off-Campus III. Dave Kelly and Tom Monoghan Jed Pangborn with 26 and 17 points respectively. Captain Mark Witowski was pleased with his team's effort and cited Bill Sahm and Tom Kirby for their excellent defensive play. The issue was never in doubt as Off­Campus III could never get their game together. Witowski gave a great deal of credit for his team's victory to the Pangborn fans. 
Paul Martin scored 33 points in Dillon's win over Off-Campus II. Dillon trailed by a point at the half as Off-Campus' Lally scored 16 of his team's 18 first-half points. In the second half Dillon went to a box one defense and Greg Zip ef­fectively shut down Lally as Dillon pulled away for the victory. Larry Jenkins and Kevin Doherty each had 14 points for the winners. 
In a pressure packed game, Cavanaugh I edged Off-Campus VII in double overtime. 
Singer coverted both ends of a one and one to give Cavanaugh the win. 
Greg Garcia scored 25 points for the winners while Kevin Ford and Jim Burns each contributed 10 points. 
Let by Joe Montana and Mike Banks, K<'enan I had little trouble with Cavanaugh I on Sunday. Taking advantage of turnovers and a blistering fast break, Keenan broke open a tight game late in the first half. Cavanaugh started to rally in the second half, but Keenan was able to freeze the ball and hold on for the victory. 
Off-Campus III edged Dillon I in a controversial tilt on Sunday. With the score tied at 51, Off­Campus had the ball. Bedford Bruno then drew a foul at the buzzer and was awarded two free throws after time had expired. Despite Dillon's objections, he was allowed to shoot and he sank both shots to give Off-Campus III the win. 
The double elimination playoffs continue in the ACC pit on Tuesday night with Keenan I facing Grace I and Off-Campus III playing Panborn I. 


Irish fencers down three. set winning streak at 18 
by Tom Kruczek In another big weekend of fen­cing action, Notre Dame extended its unheated streak to 18 in a row by easily defeating Case Western, Buffalo and Miami of Ohio in ac­tion at the ACCon Saturday. The Irish. now 23-2 on the season, were presented with an unusual surprise when senior manager Dave Dieckelman won the first and possibly the last fencing match of his short but brilliant career. The day's action began with an Irish thrashing of Case Western 21­
6. The dominating weapon was the t>pee, winning 9-0. Leading the way for the epee squad was Ed Fellows and John Strass, who both finished 2-0 in the match. 
Following Case Western, the Irish had a chance to see exactly how they compared with another good fencing team. the University of Buffalo. Coach Mike DeCicco realized that they compare quite well, in that the Irish wound up on 
top 21-6. The Irish sabre team led by junior Sam DiFiglio crushed Buffalo 7-2. Di f<'iglio won both of his bouts by identical 5-2 margins. In epee led again by Fellows, the Irish rolled to an 8-1 victory. 
In the final match of the day ,Notre Dame breezed past Miami of Ohio 23-4 . The Irish foil team rolled to a 9-0 victory, and the sabre team won 9-0 on forfeit. But it was in the epee that Dave Dieckelman got his chance. Dieckelman who trained for two weeks went into the match in the t>ighth bout with the score 4-3 in favor of Notre Dame. The senior from Elm Grove. Wis.,won 5-4 and providedthe epee team with the winning bout. 
Friday, the Irish will host the (;reat Lakes Championship in the north dome of the ACC. 17 men teams and 18 womens teams will fence in the two days of the tour­ney. 
Kane sweeps, swimmers place second in Detroit 
A valiant effort by Jim Kane nament falling short one tenth of a helped the Notre Dame swim second in the 50 and 100 yd, events amass fi81 points in the eight an­and one second in the 200 yd. nual Motor City Invitational in freestyle. All of his times Wl're 
Throughout the contest, neither Detroit last weekend, but it was varsity records. team could pull ahead by more than only good enough for second place The Irish also placed first in the

ND Sports Slate 
four points. Off-Campus VII as Oakland University's 781 point 400 yd, freestyle relay, with the converted on both ends of a one and total captured first prize. team of Kane, Jim Sevaren, Jim one with two seconds left in Competing against six other Meagher and Ed Fitzsimons ad­March 4-5 
regulation play to send the game teams, the Irish managed five first ding another varsity record, and in into overtime. With six seconds place finishes, six second place the 400 yd. medly relay. 
110('1\EY WCHAplayoffs, Notre Dame against Michigan Tech to play in the overtime period, finishes and three third places, but The high Irishman m the divingat Houghton, Mich. 
Cavanaugh trailing by two forced a Oakland's depth allowed it to win competition was Bob Ebel who jump-ball. Cavanaugh's Jim the most overall points. took second in the three-meterMarch 7-8 Singer tipped the ball toKevin Ford Kane was certainly the in­diving event with 468 points. who fed Greg Garcia who scored at dividual star though. The Coach Dennis Stark pointed outFEN('JN<;--Great Lakes Championship at ACC. 
the buzzer to force the game into Maryland senior swept the three that 45 individual best times of the the second overtime.With seven individual short freestyle events, season were recorded by the Irish1\larch 8-9 seconds remaining in the second just as he has done for the last two swimmers at the meet, which he overtime and Cavanaugh down by years. Kane barely missed felt showed how well his team hadTH,\('K--ICAAAA at Princeton one. Jim Singer was fouled and qualifying for the NCAA tour-performed. 







