
by Kathy Mills Staff Reporter 
The Academic Council defeated a motion to revise the University's pre-professional studies program in its meeting yesterday, by a vote of 39 to 13. 
The change in the program would have required students "Intending to pursue professional studies in medical, dental, or related disciplines" to major or concentrate in one of the regular departments or programs, "while fulfilling any necessary pre-requisites." This change would begin with the class of 1978. 
In addition, the Department of Pre­professional Studies would have been discountinued in 1976 and replaced by an independant office of Pre-professional Studies which would include a Director and an Advisory Committee. The tasks of the Director would have included: "colll!<>eling all pre-professional students in the University regarding future professional studies and their pre-requisites, main­taining academic records for such students, writing letters of recommendation, and maintaining liason with the medical schools." The function of the Advisory Committee, consisting of one faculty representative named by each college dean, would have been to assist the Director in these tasks. 
The proposal also stipulated that the 
Director would have reported directly, and 
been responsible, to the Office of the 
Provost. The Director would have been 
appointed by the Provost after consultation 
with the Deans of the undergraduate 
colleges. 
Bernard Waldman, Dean of the College of Science stated that he did not care to comment on the vote "at this time." 
Members of the Academic Council who aruged for a change in the program con­tended that the department's single adviser, who is at present Fr. Joseph Walter, cannot sufficiently serve the large number of pre­professional students, now approximately 900, including those in the Freshman Year of Studies. The pre-professional students constitute the largest number of students pursuing any field at the University. 
Proponents of the change also maintained that a regular academic major would lessen the frustration and increase the career opportunitites of those who did not get into medical school. They noted the abolition of a pre-law major did not harm law school admissions, and that pre-professional students not in the College of Science already had a regular academic major. 
Those Council members opposing the proposal predicted that it would affect the success of the current program with regard to medical school admittances. The ac· ceptance rate to medical school from Notre Dame is about 70 per cent, approximately twice the national average. 
Opponents of the revision also stated that the system of having both an academic advisor and a pre-professional studies advisor would weaken the current closeness between the chairman of the Department of Pre-professional Studies and the students. This closeness allows the chairman to vouch effectively for medical-school applicants to admissions personnel. 
The Council received a petition, signed by 
307 pre-professional students, asking that action\on'the proposal be1delayed until-more opinion from students was sought. The petition had been ciruculated by Alpha Epsilon Delta, the pre-professional honor society the Pre-Medical Society, and the Pre-professional Advisory Council. However, the Academic Council voted not to table the proposal on a near-unanimous decision. 
The proposal to revise the pre­professional program stemmed from a report of a review committee submitted to the Office of the Provost several months ago. This report cited over-consciousness about grades as one of the problems in­trinsic to the current program. It also noted that many pre-professionmal students view the University solely as a step toward 
medical school. 
The com­mittee's report also noted problems be ­tween the pre­professional programs in the College of Arts and Letters and the College of Science. It viewed "a commitment to a coordinated and cooperative approach" as a probable solution to these problems. 
The statement of the Committee expressed con-
Strike majc,r air base 
Forces attack in SE Asia 
~AIGON <l'PI) -Communist forces Tuesday laun­ched artillery and grounds attacks against South Vietnam's major air base. In the capital itself 14 miles away, the nation's new president shopped for a prime minister to negotiate an end to the fighting. 
In the wake of the resignation of President Nguyen Van Thieu, the shooting slackened somewhat. But Communist troops struck again at Bien Hoa air base to the northeast, and Americans and Vietnamese fled Ihe country by the hundreds in the heaviest day yet of the emergency evacuation. 
Political sources said the new chief executive, Tran Van Huong, and U.S. Ambassador Graham Martin had tentatively agreed Tuesday to name Defense Minister Tran Man Don, a 58-year-old soldier­turned politician, to the post of prime minister as the man most likely to be able to work out a cease-fire. 
Thieu's cabinet members formally turned in their resignations to Huong. 
In Paris. a spokesman for the VietCong said there would be no negotiation with the Huong government t>ven though Thieu has gone. Chief Viet Cong of up to 131,000 Vietnam and Cambodian refugees. 
Those to be granted entry would include up to 50,000 "high risk" Vietnamese refugees and their families whose lives would be imperiled by a Communist takeover. 
The committee, meeting in closed session, unanimously approved a formal request from At­torney General Edward H. Levi to permit the ad­ministration to use its "parole authority", a procedure through which refugees can be admitted quickly without red tape and delay. 
LPvi said it was "essential to begin at once to assist the departure from Vietnam of appropriate in­dividuals if such an effort were to be orderly and successful." 
Once they are admitted into the country, he said, ''Every effort will be made to obtain international assistance for all Vietnamese and Cambodian refugees and to arrange their resettlement in third countries." 
Phnom Penh "neutral" 
CAMBODIA <UPI>-Phnom Penh radio, silent for 
delegate Pharo Van Ba said an entirely new ad-five days, went back on the air Tuesday as the voice ministration would have to be set up and all U.S. of Cambodia's new Khmer Rouge government and military personnel pulled out of Vietnam before there announced the nation's policy will be "one of could be peace. neutrality." 
With an estimated 1:;o,ooo Viet Cong and North The radio gave no indication of events in Phnom Vietnamese troops poised within striking distance of Penh since the city's fall Thursday, or of the fate of Saigon. an around-the-clock airlift was ferrying· foreigners-including a handful of American AmPricans out of the country in anattemptto reduce newsmen still there. the total here t? the "barest minimum" .of 1,500 • In a dispatch from Peking, the Yugoslav news ordered b~ .Pres1d~nt Ford to handl~ ~.S. mtere~ts. agency Tanjug said Cambodia's ~ominal leader, 
U.S. off1c1als sa1d, however, the a1rhft was bemg 'Prince Norodom Sihanouk, demed reports of hampered by a shortage of aircraft, and that the ·atrocities committed by Khmer Rouge forces, in­t>vacuation might take until the end of the week to eluding beheadings. complete. Sihanouk said the reports were broadcast by the 
ll.S. CPntral Intelligence Agency from a radio station Americans evacuate Saigon 
in a country neighboring Cambodia, according to the . . Tanjug dispatch. 
WASHINGTON <UPI l -Pre~1dent Ford sa1d Tuesday Actual power in cambodia's new regime belongs to 
that a hurry-up .evac~ahon wo~d reduce th,~ Dt>puty Prime Minister Khieu Samphan, who spoke 
Amencan presence m Saigon to a skeleton force 'for 15 minutes over Phnom Penh radio Tuesday. 
of government workers and civilians by the In the speech,. his first since his Khmer Rou~e 
Pnd of the da.y. . . . troops captured Phnom Penh, Khieu Samphan said 
" ...The situation there IS ve~y fluid and nobody "the future policy of Cambodia will be one of 
truly knows what the n~xt step wil~,be, whether there neutrality, independence within our own borders. We 
w1ll be an attack on Sa1gon or no.t, Ford r~marke?. will be neutral and non-aligned." .. 
In a . two-hour early mornmg meetmg With The 44-year-<Jld revolutionary made no spec1f1c 
HPpu~hcan leaders of Congress, For~ repor~edly references to relations with other nations, although 
t•xplamed ho'_V a small body of U.S. Mann~s, ass1sted he condemned "U.S. imperialists." 
by se~ ~nd a1r for~es, w~uld be used to h~t out any "I ask all people to remain vigilant and r.~alize t~at 
remammg Americans m case of an 1mmanent many obstacles still remain to surmount, he sa1d. 
collapse of Saigon. "I wish to thank the people of the entire world, 
The Senate Judiciary Committee approved, notably people of nonaligned nations and progressive 
Tuesday the immediate entry into the United States Americans who support our government." 
cern over the fate of students who are not 
admitted to medical schooL Many of these 
students simply apply to graduate school in 
the departments of biology and chemistry. 
It pointed out that the majority of such 
students have followed a "single-option" 
curriculum since they feel that alternatives 
to medical school are few. 
The report also mentioned that the presence of a lone adviser in the pre­professional office may lower a student to the level of a number; his grade point average. Also, the committee stated that contact between the highly resourceful 1 Counseling and Psychological Services Centers and the pre-professional office is 
"apparently slight." 
(continued on page 3) 
· HPC plans program for summer storage 
by Shawn Scannell Staff Reporter 
A deatiled explanation of the summer storage program was presented 
at the first HPC meeting of the upcoming year. Casey Nolan, spokesman 
for the program, noted that the costs would be comparable to last year's 
student run operation even though a professional company will be han­
dling it this year. 
The plan calls for all the campus' summer storage to be placed in four 
large vans which will, in turn, be stored in a warehouse. Casey said 
student's storage will never leave the vans. 
The vans will pick up individual hall's storage at certain times and 
places. The loading will take place the following days: Wednesday, May 
7, through Friday, May 9, as well as the following Monday and Tuesday. 
Halls will be notified of the day and place that their respective loading 
will take place. Casey stressed the importance of each hall loading on the 
day assigned to avoid confusion. 
A contract will be sent in the campus mail to all students with details of 
the contract and insurance information. Students moving off campus will 
also be afforded the service; their things to be stored on May 13. Loading 
will go on from 8 a.m. until4:30 p.m. each day except Wednesday, which 
will start at 9 a.m. 
Elton Johnson, new HPC President, opened the meeting, which was 
also the last one of this year. Johnson passed out several pieces of ikn­
formation, including: a list of hall presidents with phone numbers, a six 
point paper on the purposes and goals of the HPC next year, a list of 
mPeting procedures for greater efficiency, and a resource manual 
prepared by the Ombudsman Service. 
In toher business at the meeting, Johnson brought up the matter of a 
debt of nearly $300 from An Tostal in connection with plans for a banquet 
for the HPC next week. An approved plan by Tom Porter, HPC executive 
coordinator, will raise $500 to cover the banquet costs and the debt. 
A report was also made on the beginning of the escort service. 
Women's halls' presidents were given small posters to be placed in the 
dorms which outlined the service offered. 
Johnson reported that the HPC mailing address would be Box 639. 
Johnson also noted that the position of executive coordinator, currently 
filled by Tom Porter, is open. He asked that HPC members interested in 
the position see Porter in order that an appointment be made. 
When asked of his plans for the HPC inthe upcoming year, Johnson 
replied, "The plan is to concentrate mainly on restructuring the HPC. 
The concern. at least for the first few months, will be internal." 

TONY GRASSO LIFTS 500 POUNDS to publici• the Knights of Columbus' 'Pennies from Huvc:1' fund-raising drive. If the program's objectlve-500 lbs. of donated pennies-Is ,...c:hed, Tony will lift the entire collection of coins. (Photo Chris Smith.) 
the observer 
warld bri•fs · 
JOLIET, Ill. (UPD · More 1 
than 200 convicts seized a cell I 
block and 10 hostages at Joliet 
Correctional Center Tuesday. 
A convict was found dud, his 
throat slashed, and three 
persons were Inlured before the 
takeover was reported over 1 
more than five hours later. 1 
WASHINGTON (UPI) • ln-1 
creased fuel costs, rising labor 
rates and declining air travel 
combined during the first three 
months of this yur to give the 
U.S. scheduled airlines their highest quarterly losses In history, the Air Transport Association said Tuesday. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -In a I heated debate with a · congressional energy expert, consumer advocate Ralph Nader said Tuesday the dangers of nuclear power are so great that decisions about Its future use should not be governed by the views of scientists and engineers. 
an campus today 
12:15 p.m. --seminar, "tran­smission of conformational Information In dna: studies on duplex block dna polymers", by john burd, rm 102, galvin life sci. cent. 
4:30 p.m. -· colloquium, "studies of weak Interactions at / high energies using neutrino : beams," by dr. barry barlsh, rm 118, nieuwland sci hall 5 p.m. --vespers, evensong, logchapel · 
6:30 p.m. --meeting, sailing 1club, rm 204, Eng bldg. 1 
7:30 
p.m. --lecture, "sub-· sahara africa", by lawrence steward, carroll hall 

7:30 
p.m. .. lecture, "new perspectives on cold war strategles-d-day to vietnam," by dr. charles macdonald, lib. lounge. 


8:15p.m. -· concert, university . chorus, sacred heart church 
UFW leader 
Wednesday, April 23, 1975 
To use .'cafeteria system' 
SMC plans evaluation experiment 
by Katie Kerwin Staff Reporter 
A new faculty evaluation system, recently developed at Purdue University, will be em­ployed experimentally by thirty­five of the St. Mary's faculty this semester. 
The faculty members have volunteered to use the Purdue "cafeteria system" for evaluation of their classes. The remaining teachers, approximately two­thirds of the St. Mary's faculty, will continue to use the present system, based on a form drawn up by the American Association of University Professors. 
The "CAFETERIA In­strumental Evaluation Program" is a computer-assisted system developed and administered by the Measurement and Research Center of Purdue University under a grant from the Lily Corporation. 
"This system is flexible enough to allow faculty members to tailor questions to fit their classes," according to Mrs. Ruth Hoffman, chairman of the Committee for the Re-study of Evaluation Forms. 
The "cafeteria system" consists of a list of two hundred questions. The teacher may choose up to thirty-five questions. 
In addition, there are five basic questions that will be on all evaluations. The form is then sent back to Purdue and a computer prints up an evaluation form for each individual course. 
When the students have evaluated the courses, the forms are sent back to the Purdue computer. Read-outs are available in about a week. 
Under the present system, results are not available until several months after the course has ended. 
A new method of evaluation is being sought, says Hoffman, because "a great deal of 
to lecture 
on farmworker boycotts 
Eliseo Medina, the youngest national executive director for the United Farmworkers Organizing Committee, will lecture on the farmworker's situation and Caesar Chavez's boycotting tonight at 7:00 in LaFortune Theater. 
Two films will also be shown: Migrants and Why We Boycott. 
The farm workers organization is seeking recognition of agriculture under labor laws, according to MECHA president Martha Vazquez. Since farmworkers are not allowed to strike, "they are tyring to boycott," Vazquez said. "It has become the symbol of United Farmworkers struggle because it is their only tool," she noted. 
i· "It has become a social, not just 
t an economic issue," Vazquez 
ADDITION' 
In the escort schedule posted in yesterday's Observer' the Library to South quad schedule was not shown. The service will leave 
every fifteen minutes from 8:00­
11:45. 
stated. "800,000 children under sixteen are forced to work and the average farm worker lives to forty­nine, whereas the average American lives to seventy-eight or more," Vazquez cited. This in­formation came from the U.S. Department of Agriculture in the 
1969  Senate  Report  from  the  
subcommittee  on  Migratory  
Labor.  
The  lecture  and  films  are  

sponsored by Mecha. 
The Observer is published dally during the college seme~~ter except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Sub&crlptlons may be purchased tor 59 per semester (516 per year) from The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana A6SS6. Second class poslage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
A6S56. 
THINK ... 
CQ.LEGE LIFE 
INSURANCE CO.OF AMERICA 
avai I able. ApriI 18-27 an lp recording of 
SCOTT JOPLIN RAGS 
performed by William Cerny chairman NO Music Dept. 
I 
proceeds to. The Music 
Scholarship Fund· 
on sale at the Huddle 
. I 
in residence halls in 248 O'Shag for $4 
dissatisfaction with the present system has been expressed by faculty members." Many of those who are unhappy with it, she ex­plains, are fhose using innovative techniques, or those with large lecture or studio classes, who find that many of the questions on the present evaluation form do not apply to their classes. 
The Purdue system would allow instructors to select those questions which pertain to their own particular method of teaching or type of class. The new questionnaire includes questions regarding team teaching, as well experiment." It has not yet been ·available at no cost this year and determined whether the evaluation . for both semesters next year. form will be used again next year. After that, St. Mary's can continue 
The evaluation committee is also to use it for a fee, choose another studying the purpose of faculty evaluation, or draft its own. evaluations, stated Hoffman. Joan Durlacher, one of two 
"We have to rethink the whole student representatives on the philosophy of evaluation forms. . evaluations committee, will be We need to decide whether they idistributing a questionnaire are for the teachers or the students I regarding faculty evaluations to or the administration. the students on _Thursday. Ac-
Hoffman hopes the committee companied by a brief explanatory will: discuss the philosophy of the letter, the questionnaires seek to evaluation during the first determine student opinion semester of next year, make a regarding the purpose, ef­recommendation to the Faculty fectiveness, and values used in Assembly, and then, pending evaluating faculty. 
as other teaching methods not 1 approval of the recommendation, Durlacher feels student feed­covered by. the old for~. . I decide upon a specific form for , back is useful and necessary to the The qmckness w1th wh1ch 1 future evaluations. committee in formulating a new 
faculty members would receive The Purdue form will be /faculty evaluation program.
results is another attribute of the Purdue system. Teachers would 
be able to incorporate im-• SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RA-rE.S FOR 
provements suggested by the 
evaluations  in  their  next  
semester's courses.  
Hoffman  terms  the  use  of the  

Purdue evaluation a "short-tPrm 
STEWART MCGUIRE SHOES 
·
h h S
Wit t e prmgStep cushion DAD & FAMILy 
1 
503 N. Blaine Ave. ·So. Bend 234-4469 
NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$695 $895 
Single occupancy Double occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required, just m~ntion this ad. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. 
HICKORY INN MOTEl 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad Cable T.V.L Air Cond., Phones. Send this ad to your parents 
~. ·•------------------------------~~~---------=--­
··•·•······•··•·••••••••···•·························································•·············· STUDENT UNION PRESENTS: 
HUMPHREY BOGART 
FILM FESTIVAL April 24-28 Thurs. Casablanca 7, 9, 11 p.m. Fri. The Big Sleep 7, 9, 1 1 p.m. 
Sat. The Maltese Falcon 7, 9, 11 p.m. Sun. The Caine Mutiny 6:30,9,11 :30 p.m. Mon. The Treasure of Sierra Madre 
6:30,9, 11:30 p.m. 
All films shown in the Engineering Auditorium Admission: $1.00 
. 
·••···················································· 
presents 
Akira Kurosawa's 
RASHOMON 
~ 
Tuesday and Wednesday 8 and 10 pm 
·Admission $1.00 Patrons Free 
.. 
, 

· •. I . ·,' l'' .~ Jt •:,. ' ' ll '-' • ·'·. I 

Wednesday, April 23, 1975 
the observer 
An Tostal features 'true' talent 
by Maureen Flynn 
the An Tostal fleet carrying Chairman Tom Porter in THE JIM E. BROGAN AWARD: 
Assistant Chairman Boband a coffin. · The An Tostal committee decided Quakenbush wished to extei}Q
Bob Mader Touch Football ChaiJ!pionships: A St. Mary's team 
Staff Reporters from LeMans and Augusta halls scored two touch­downs to the one scored by the Notre Dame team
Three days after the end of the festival, the An from Walsh.
Tostal Committee has recovered sufficiently to Pie-Eating: Rita Cullinain and Chuck Katter out­release the final results of the various An Tostal ate the other contestants at the festival's classic pig­e·vents. Several events we,re cancelled because of 
out. Katter downed his pie almost faster than weather Other An Tostal events, however, Cullinain fed it to him to emerge unrecognizable but went on as scheduled with the following re~ults: victorious. 
Mr. Campus: Mr. Alumni, Jules Thompson, placed Piano Smash: The ND basketball squad suc­
first in the overall competition, imitating cartoon cessfully smashed its piano and transported it to the 'characters, playing rag-time piano, and spoofing other side of a nine-inch hole faster than the con­·commercials in his talent display. Thompson, tending members of the Irish football team. After the however. did not receive the most votes in the talent gridders made a valiant attempt to enlarge their hole, segment of the program. That honor went to Mr. their efforts were thwarted by representatives of the 
Morrissey Neil Shanahan for swallowing a light bulb. dribblers who promptly stuffed piano pieces back ~ 
These Gentle Thursday activities were organized through the recently enlarged hole. The basketball 
by An Tostal committee members Kevin Maguire, team eventually won by removing their pierced 
Debbie Schoeberlein, and Judy Kula. Frivolous board. shifting the entire pile of piano pieces, and ' Friday was directed by Keefe Montgomery, Mary replacing the board on the other side of the.oile 
Kay Kelly, and Mike Henke, and featured the Bike Race: "Fearless Frank" Pizzuro set an An 
following ('Vents: Tostal first by winning this event for the fourth year this year to present the award to Farrell's Ice Cream Parlor for the greatest contribution to the spirit of tqis year's festival. 
Chairman Tom Porter and 
TIMM PARTY STORE 
OPEN Mon-Sat 9:00 A.M.-11 :00 P.M. Sun 12:00-11 :00 P.M. 
COLD BEER, WINE, GOURMET FOODS 
3114 S. 11th St. Niles, Mi. 
683-9875 
Egg Toss: Finalists for this event met in a last in a row. Pizzuro defeated all contenders his fresh­
.....................................
round of tossing at Recess 101, where two sophomores man, sophomore, junior, and now senior years, and it from Flanner, Bob Jeanguenat and John Burger, is rumored he intends to return as a grad student, just * * tossed their final egg ovt~r 45 feet. so he can do it again. 
Jello Toss: Terry Salazar and Rick Campa carried Mud Volleyball: The Pangborn Zoomers made it 
i SENIOR CLUB j
off the honors in this event. The winning team three years in a row by defeating another team from defeated the same couple who placed second in the Pangborn. The "Zoom Dynasty" is the only winner * ~ egg toss. but the identilties of these two "almost this event has ever known, since it has been in * ~ weres" is unknown. t>xistence for only those three years. Women's 
i THIS WEEK :t
Car Stuffing: The Aerial Acrobatics Defecators competition debuted this year as the Farley Fudge­performed a truly amazing feat by stvffing 26 people Wallies defeated the Farley Maskers in another into a Dynamic Olds 88 while Father Sorin's statue "intrahall" competition. ** ~ ~ looked on in apparent approval. Robin Hood and Little John: Members of Student 
i WED. 7 & 7's 504 !
Impersonations: Dominick Fanuele of Morrissey Government and the Observer staff met upon a placed first with his impressions of various sports narrow plank over a muddy ditch, with sad results for * ~ figures. entertainers, and politicians, including the Obst>rvt'r. Armed with pillows, the Student * ~ Groucho Marx, Kojack, and Columbo. Government leaders succeeded in sending all but two 
i THURS. GIN & TONIC 504 ~ 
Amateur Hour: Pat Kronenwetter of Keenan of the Observerites to the laundry. amazed the judges with his renditions of the Fight Tug-of-War: No winners, but only losers emerged Song and the William Tell Overture as played, not on from this event as all organized contests degenerated 
* ~ 
the piano. not on the trombone, but on his head. into a general mudbath. 
i FRI. HAPPY HOUR 4 • 6 ~ 
Recess 101: The featured con­test of this highly successful event was an ice cream eating contest 
between Al Pirus and Tim Byers of Revision denied i SAT. 204 BEER 4 • 8 ~ 
the hockey team and two anonymous challengers from the <continued from page 1) of associate professor. crowd. The challengers sue-Mark Seal, representative of the The Academic Manual now ceeded in downing a one-gallon College of Science on the Academic stipulates, "Members of the COME BY FOR
! ~ 
bowl of Farrell's ice cream before Council, termed the report "good" Regular Teaching-and-Research the icers to win a year's free ice and "solid." However, he pointed Faculty in the Law School will not * ~ cream from Farrell's. out that there was a basic dif-be retained without tenure for * ~ 
Mary Siegel and Vinnie ference "between what went into longer than seven years." : SURP~ISE SPECIAL ~ Moschella were in charge of the An the Provosts's office and what Dean Thomas Shaffer said this * ~ Tostal activities on a not-so-sunny came out. The Provost wanted to alternation was necessary for Law Saturday. Although the decathlon discontinue the Department of School recruiting, noting that the 
i THIS WEEK-END ~ 
had to be cancelled because of the Pre-professional studies whereas rank of assistant professor is weather, the other Saturdlay events the report did not recommend rarely found in legal education and 
*******************••••**************
went on. that." that now faculty commonly enter 
Road Rally: Kathy Butcher and Seal predicted "constructive teaching at the associate level. Michel Eisenstein of St. Mary's changes" will result .in the pre-Chauncey Veatch, Law School rolled in after the award had professional program from the representative on the Academic already been presented , but tthe discussion at yesterday's Council, expressed his pleasure judge ruled in their favor never-Academic Council meeting. and happiness at the decision. thele~" "I am very delighted at the way "I think it's great. This will help 
Chariot Race: The Dogs from the vote came out," stated Seal, in faculty hiring because now we 4th Floor north in Keenan Hall who had introduced the motion to will be doing the same thing as finished first in their chariot built table the proposal. other law schools," he stated. for $11.50. The best looking chariot In other business, the Academic · Veatch added, "this wasn't a award went to another Keenan Council also voted to amend the really controversial issue. It's one Hall team headed by Brian Academic Manual to allow the thing we have all been interested in Hegarty. Thirteen chariots Law School a period of six years to for a long time. The decision was paraded across the campus led by 1 review tenure for those at the rank virtually unanimous." 
E I • --------------------~ I
~ I
i COME "THE PAN" i 
II ' ~ DEEP DISH PIZZA ! 
·11 for the 
G~JT!! 1 
~.~:~ & N.D. & S.M.C. COMMUNITY 1
I I I IT'S AS CLOSE I
I I
AS YOUR PHONE 
1I 277-1221 or 277-1222_1I 
I I 
I 
I FREE DELIVERY 
FROM NO'N UNTIL 
on or off-campus.
FINALS, YOU'LL BE 
STUDYING.. TAKE -also quick pickup service A BREAK FOR
IDEEP DISH PIZZA 
I ~~--·1•0•7•D•I•X•IE.W_A_v_N_o.. R .. .....
T•H-·J.u.s_r.N.-.2-.R,!~.£!-~~ALL.:.S IN!J,_.~ 
special thanks to the An Tostal fleet, Ted Ursu and Don Opal, for their tremendous job in tran­sporting people and equipment all over the ND-8MC campuses. 
. NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION PROUDLY PRESENTS 
THE 
ALICE COOPER SHOW 
"WELCOME TO MY NIGHTMARE" 

WITH: 
JOZEF CHIROWSKI 
SPECIAL GUEST STAR:
WHITEY GLAN STEVE HUNTER PRAKASH JOHN DICK WAGNER 
SUZI· QUATRO 
.TUESDAY APRIL 29 8:00 p.m. NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC & . CONVOCATION CENTER_ TICKETS NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE AND A.C.C. ONLY. PRICES: $7.00, $6.00, and $5.00 

AI  The ObServer an independent student newspaper Founded November 3, 1966 Terry Keeney Editor-in-Chief Bob Zoa• Buainen Manaier Bob McManua Advertiaina Manaaer EDrrORIAL BOARD Rutherford. Managing Editor; Fred Graver. Executive Editor; Jim Eder, Editorial Editor Ken Girouard. News Editor; Pat Hanifin, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Ed•tor Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; TomO'Neil, Features Editor Chris Smith, Photo Editor Editori~ls: lAil~l N•ws: 281-1715 Businf'SS: 281-7471 Wednesday, April 23, 1975  


P. 0. Box Q 
Guns And Ethics 
Dear Editor: 
During my four vears at Notre 
Dame I have always been skep­
tical of the concept of a "Christian 
Community." Christiansare people 
who try and help their fellow man. 
Notre Dame in an attempt to show 
their concern for humanity has 
taken positive actions. The 
University's stand on abortion, 
world hunp;er and peace have been 
commendable. 
These statements, t10wever are 
public. The University does like 
to look good. The University also 
likes to make money. These two 
desires of the University are not 
equally powerful. The desire for 
money is much stronger. The 
manifestation of this desire is the 
"Gun Show." 
Guns have a tendency to hurt 
people. The fact that Notre Dame is holding an gun show means that Notre Dame is increasing the chances of local people being hurt. fhe University and the Northern Indiana Gun Collectors Assoc. are promoting the sale of guns to people who are sick enough to buy them. The university is actually arming people. A few of these · people may be the same people who rape students and murder 
::leaning women. 
The sale of guns stands in direct 
lpposition to every public 
statement, at least morally, of the 
University and the student body. 
~otre Dame will protect, the un­
~rn, feed thousands of people who 
live far away, and will sponsor the 
jestruction of their local com­
munity. 
Richard Speck, Sirhan Sirhan, 
md Jack Ruby bought their guns. 
rhe person who killed the cleaning 
Noman probably bought his gun. I 
·an just imagine the investigation 
!f that murder. The local police, 
.ided by Arthur\ Pears, tracing 
he weapon to a gun shop. Inside 
hat gun shop where the weapon 
Nas sold will hang a sign saying 
"Gun Show At The Notre Dame 
Athletic And Convocation Center." 
Many people buy guns for many 
reasons. Only a few of these people 
~ver intend to harm a human 
being. These few people, however 
do enough damage to justify the 
elimination of at least all hand 
guns. If a deranged mind was 
fortunate enough to see a bright 
and shinny automatic weapon, the 
dome of Notre Dame may 
someday rank with the tower at the 
University of Texas. _ 
Why does the University of Notre 
Dame allow a gun show? The only 
moral grounds are financial. 
These financial desires obviously 
supercede campus security and 
"Christian" ethics. 
John C. Collins. 
Special Thanks 
Dear Editor: 
Another An Tostal weekend has gone by and it was proved once again that even the worst South Bend weather could not hinder the enjoyment of th'e Notre Dame student body. It took everyone's cooperation to make this years' festival a success, from the supervisory work of the Day Chairmen down to the cleanup work of everyone involved. Throughout the past few weeks we have met many people that made our job easier as well as an en­joyable experience as Chairmen of the Mobilization Team. Both of us will remember this weekend as the 
best and most hectic that we ever spent on campus. 
Because of the immense help that we received, we would like to personally say 'thank you' to all those that took time out from their daily routine to aid in our quest for a successful weekend. We believe a few persons deserve special recognition for their efforts: Tom Porter, Bob Quakenbush, and all the Day Chairmen of An Tostal; Mr. Ed Lyons and his fantastic Maintenance crew; Mr. Swain of the campus Grounds Crew; Sam Beninghoff -ND Stadium Mgr.; the entire Security Dept.; and finally, Steve Callahan, Jim Kerwin, George Madaras, Marty Dytrych, Phil Richards, Frank Dibling, John Packo, Mark Parker, Bruce Fortelka, Dave Cervone, Charles Schroer, and Rose Blondis, who 
turned out to be the best 
Mobilization Crew that An Tostal 
has ever seen. 
Once again, thanks to all of you. 
Don Opal Ted Ursu ' "An Tostal Mobilization" 
Where Bouffard Left Off 
Dear Editor: 
ACC Ticket Manager Michael 
Busick must be kidding! He is 
picking up right where his friend 
Don Bouffard left off. He is ex­
pecting the students to fork up 
either $21 or$28 in less than a week 
for tickets that will not be used for 
over six months. 
If only 3,000 of the 9,000 tickets 
are sold at an average price of $25, 
he will collect $75,000. This will be 
another Notre Dame ad­
ministrator rip-off for the students. 
Can Mr. Busick explain why he 
needs $75,000 now for a basketball 
season that doesn't begin for six 
months? 
Plenty students need every cent 
they can muster just to get home 
for the · summer. I've been a 
season ticket holder for 3 years 
now. Money forb-ball tickets.has 
never been collected, at least while 
I've been here, during the spring 
semester. Why the sudden switch? 
Busick should tell the students 
what is going on and why he needs 
our money now. 
Donald Schwander 
Emancipation Of Toohey 
Dear Editor; 
Father Toohey seems to be quite paranoid on the subjet of manipulation and emancipation. It seems that Fr. Toohey thinks that someone is always getting the shaft. In his articles on eman­cipation and President Ford's visit, that someone appears to be us in his eyes. We feel that this is slightly far fetched. Can a day in May really rectify all the terrible situations around us? 
Father Toohey has taken it upon himself to "sense" 1the feelings of this campus and to fill his writings with platitudes, generalities, and 
Dpinian 
The Repression Of The Baltic 
iiiiiiii--lydia labanauskas_ 
.. EvPry man liS"...exigencies or claims emanating from a self to somt'thing (somt' good> as bPing his due, (something belonging to tht' bt"ing of splf, somPthing that ought to be where that self is), in which otht"r st>lvt's art' obliged in conscience to 'see,' to 'recognize;' to 'l't'lt"bratt'.' not to 'frustrate'.'' 
The repression of human rights continues to be a living reality in the Baltic countries of Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia. Forceably annexed by the Soviet Union in 1940 under a secret pact between Stalin and Hitler, the Baltic countries have ever since been dominated by a foreign oppressor and its peoples deprived of the basic human freedoms. 
Under Communist domination the right to national and individual self-determination has been denied. Political, social, and religious persecutions continue to exist. Religious institutions are prohibited and Churches confiscated by the government. Parents or teachers making any effort to instruct children religiously are liable to imprisonment. People who attend Mass, priests distributing sacraments, are closely surveyed by the KGB. Loss of a job, imprisonment, and deportation to concentration camps are all means used by the Soviets to crush opposition. 
Freedom of speech, freedom of the press, are non~xistent. Lithuanians are persecuted for underground publications such as ''The Chronicles of the Lithuanian Catholic Church." A Russian dissident. S. Kovalev, has recently been arrested for helping cir­culate the "Chronicle" in the free world. He was arrested on the grounds of"endangeringthe Lithuanian Soviet Republics internal security.'' 
Despite the continual acts of injustice, the defilement of religious faith and tradition, the majority of the Baltic people have not succumbed to the persecutions. In Lithuania the Soviet repression has been met by widespread protests and retaliation: student riots, the self-immolation of a young student, Romas Kalanta, in the city of Kaunas, workers' protests, mass demonstrations, and petitions. 
World leaders have failed to respond to these acts of injustice, to ground their political decisions in ethics, and have instead pursued manipulative policies. Recently the prime minister of Australia, Mr. Gough Whitlam, accepted the forced annexation of the Baltic countries by the Soviet Union. Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger is currently urging the U.S. to accept the illegal incorporation. President Ford in his recent visity to the campus affirmed the leadership the U.S. must assume as the protector and propagator of the creed of liberty. An acceptance of the annexation by the U.S. would be a violation of human rights and the basic tenets of democracy. 
The recent publication of the 1974 edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica. has already recognized Lithuania as the "Lithuanian Soviet Socialist Republic." In previous editions Lithuania was listed as a separate country with its own political and cultural characteristics. The new publication has distorted historical fact. 
The Baltic people continue to struggle for their rights as in­dividuals and as people. As students of a Catholic University, we have a humane responsibility to ground our actions in moral principles and to seek justice for the oppressed. 
Editor's Note: Lydia Labanauskas is secretary of the Notre Dame Baltic Club, which seeks to unify students of Baltic descent and others interested in the Baltic issue for cultural and political activities. 
half-truths, the same things which education. Don't include them in he accused President Ford of your generalities. Rather than doing. As conscientious students of harp on the fact that our parents this campus, we find it revolting put pressure on us, why don't we that Fr. Toohey has included us in emancipate ourselves from this these generalities. selfish notion and sit down and 
We personally are appalled at write or call our parents and thank the fact that the Observer allows them for helping us along through these platitudes, generalities and life's manipulations? half-truths to be printed. In two articles and eight columns, Toohey Yes, for once in our lives, why takes it upon himself to represent don't we step back thank God for "a good many students" to knock all that we have rather than President Ford, his efforts, though criticize everything around us. perhaps not the best, to heal a wounded country with a clemency On May Ist, why don't we go to program, Vice-President all our classes and try to learn Rockefeller, the Southeast Asian something instead of worrying situation, Ford's world hunger about how we're ma­program, Bob Hope, our parents, nipulated. After all, is it wrong professors, GPA's, the SLC, Father that many of us want to be competition in general, and most doctors, teachers or businessmen? importantly the intelligence of the student body. And in the end, John C. Clemency Toohey has the nerve to tell us \ George H. Hoff when "Student disillusionment became complete." Fr. Toohey, perhaps YOU are disillusioned. the observer 
So Father Toohey now asks us to emancipate ourselves from the Night Editor: Val Zurblls manipulation of life. After all, life Asst. Night Editor: Katie Kerwin has manipulated us to the point of Layout Staff: Not Applicable "unfreedom," hasn't it Father Day Editor: Don Reimer Toohey? Yes it has. Father Copy Reader: Gregg B. Bangs Toohey has convinced us that we Editorials: John (2-mlnut) are doomed to cry after tests. He Amantea & Jim Eder has convinced us that if we do not Features: Tom O'Neil, Jim remain in our respective fields of Stevens study our parents will disown us Sports: Bill Brink and withdraw all financial support Typists: M. Corr, J. Landis, M. · obviously the best known Fanning, A. Peeler measure of parental love. Come on Compugraphic: M. Fanning Father Toohey! Night Controllers: M.J. & Howard 
Our parents did not send us to Picture Screener: AI Notre Dame, we chose to come. Ad Layout: Bob Tracey Our parents are now bending over I backwards to pay for our 
Wednesday, April 23, 1975 
the observer 
5 
decline and collapse of southeast asia 
prof: peter moody 
As of this writing, the government of administration to say to our "friends" that 
then cut off that support; we deposed rulers Cambodia has collapsed, and the govern-the abandonment of South Vietnam does not of that country insufficiently docile to our ment of South Vietnam appears to be'· mean the abandonment of the rest of them: ideas of how things should be done; we on the point of collapse. In this should trouble come, who would believe provided the government of that country no fluid situation, speculation on the this? Those who used to count on us for incentive to combat the corruption and petty significance appears futile, and given the ) protection will be forced to fall back on their tyranny which attend modernization, suffering that has been and probably will be, own resources, and in many cases those especially when coupled with civil war; we speculation may be tasteless as well. Still, resources, in comparison with thoc;;e of who made the 1973 cease-fire to suit ourselves, for the rest of us life goes on, and the they have to fear, are precious and few. imposing on South Vietnam conditions changes in Southeast Asia change the world This, however is no doubt their misfortune which no government with any pretensions in ways which may effect us. and none of our own. The "loss" even of at all could accept. It was both foreseeable 
The unfolding events should, but probably Southeast Asia as a whole would not seem to and foreseen that the cease-fire would be a won't, destroy the mystique of people's war. · have much bearing on our security interests · farce, given our determination to wash our Some elements of that technique still ap-1 as we now define them. Our only loss will be hands of the whole mess. The "decent in­pear to function well enough. Thus, the honor, which many of us consider an terval" spoken of at the time has already communists seem to retain the moral empty term and which, in any case, is gone by. We have no legitimate complaints. initiative, and articulate American opinion already considerably tarnished. The This is a century ruled by Moloch, and we seems largely to put the blame for the most emerging chaos may even bring us benefits. as much as anyone have made our children, recent bloodshed on the Saigon regime, that The Cambodian insurgents seem gravely and the children of others, pass through fire. vicious animal which, when attacked, divided among themselves; Hanoi seems to But the triumph of the violence of our defends himself. But the victory does not aspire to hegemony over all Indo-China; enemies over our violence does not seem appear to be that of the Vietnamese Peking seems disinclined to permit this likely to appease the god. We shall no longer "people", except rhetorically for those who lightly; the Soviet Union will not be able to be the world's policeman. Is it well for the sympathize with the victors. Concretely, it avoid being dragged into the bickering; we world to be without a policeman--do the is a victory for armed might. Substantial can sit on the mountain and watch the tigers weak no longer require protection? What portions of the people show small en-fight. And, for all anyone will ever know, will be the consequences of yielding the beat chantment with the prospect of communist and as many have expressly argued, the to those with the will, if not the capacity, to rule--despite the unimpressive nature of consequences of the fall of South Vietnam walk it? Will the existence of a great power, their own fading, falling rulers--as they flee may be preferable to the continuation of the unable to meet the responsibilities of its southward, sometimes toward the battle war. This, of course, is an argument which objective status, breed justice and peace? lines. can be used against any war at any time; 
These questions are only two-thirds 
There has been some talk of recent events and large numbers of Vietnamese, both on rhetorical, since I can't claim to know the 
vindicating the "domino theory" after all the winning and losing side, have preferred 
<although the inflation of this simple-the continuation of the war to the risks of 
minded metaphor into a"theory" seems to peace. have been largely the work of opponents of In more general terms, the United States our involvement in search of an easy has perhapsdemonstrated itlacks the virtue target>. At present it seems likely that < "virtus") to act as a "great power." This, "Indo-China" will fall as a piece. It is less of course, is hardly the most attractive of likely <but hardly impossible) that other virtues. International problems are still countries in that region will immediately largely settled by violence, and this war was "go communist". But they will have to re-brut1l and evil, as all wars are. It has had evaluate their relationship with us, as horrendous effects on Vietnamese society, Thailand is already doing. And this is true and contributed to (or brought into the of our allies elsewhere. It is fatuous for the open) the corruption of our own. But "peace" may also be brutal (small con-answers. Over the past generation, we have solation to the dead, b~t important. to the answered violence with violence, and executed and dehumamzed); and, ~n. ~old violence is an evil thing. But :it also seems terms, there are problems of responsibility. ! to be the way of the world, and our policies We could not act as a great power: our have provided for many a modicum of or­problem :-v~s not an ~xcess of benevolanc~, der, stability, and security which is no but a deficiency of will. We ran the war m longer so cerain. An unattractive era is Vietna_m a~ an exercise _in Realpolitik, passing away; it is doubtful that the new one sometu1_1es m the most puerile sense o~ that ·wm be better. In the meantime, we may term, With an ey~ more to our convemence thank Moloch that he is not a god of justice, than th~ well-bemg of the country we :-vere :md that whatever ill consequences our protectmg. We made that country viable policies bring will not at least in the short only insofar as it enjoyed our support, and term, accru to us. ' 

Another Continental Discount Fare: 

STAND BY TO SAVE 

TO LOS ANGELES 
You come out ahead because we really move our tail. 
Believe it or not, our L.A. Standby Discount Fare on selected flights is only $104. And we have Standby Discount service to Denver for $60, saving you $25 off Coach fare. 
Then there's Night Coach Discount to Los Angeles for $116, or $30 less than Coach. 
We're also the only airline with Economy Discount service throughout our route system-another way to save, just for skipping a meal. Some sample fares: 
LOS ANGELES $131 SAVE $15 
DENVER OR COLORADO SPRINGS __ $ 75 SAVE $10 ALBUQUERQUE ~~-$ 8~_==$AVE $10 KANSAS CITY $ 41 SAVE$ 4 SAN FRANCISCO, 
PORTLAND OR $131 SAVE $15 
SEATTLE 
Remember too, a travel agent costs you nothing extra, so call one for the good word on all our Discount Fares. Or call us at 686-6500. And be sure to ask how to save up to 25% over regular round-trip Coach with our new Bicentennial Excursion Fare. 
All fares are one way and include tax; airport security surcharge extra. 
.., 
We really move our tail for you. 

CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 
The Proud Bird with the Golden "Jail. 
the observer Wednesday, April 23, 1975 

ND-SMC schedule celebration 
~lAYLAND GOLF CENTER 
9 HOU: • P'~ 3 GOLf COIM$1!
to observe nation's'Bicentennial· 
Drl.,l..., lana• · · I II H•l• Mlnlalu,. 
by Cathy Busto 
starr Reporter 
Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame have. announced joint plans for an ob­servance of the nation's Bicen­tennial two levels with both in­dividual departments and the colleges as a whole participating. 
Highlighting the observance will be a "festival ·.week" in March of 1976, which will include a major academic conference as well as a variety of cultural events. 
The theme for the academic conference, schedulaed for March 7 to 11 1976, will be "An Almost Chosen People: The ~ Moral Aspirations of Americans." 
Dr. Roaald Weber, director of 
Notre Dame·s American Studies· 1concept of the Williamsburg 
dinator of programming for St. Mary's. The dinner is tentatively being coordinated with the Sophomore Parents' Weekend at St. Mary's so that the parents 1can also come to the dinner. ' 
The objective of the dinner is to create a low~ost dinner with an informal candle-lit tavern style 
1 atmosphere. Colonial style food will be served and the evening will also include colonial music, colonial skits, and costuming of the period. Dr. Armand Kitto, chairman of the music department at SMC, is tentatively planning to have an early American style music. Dr. Jack Detzler, professor of . history at SMC, explained how the 
program, said that the theme referred to the persistent historical sense of moral aspiration among Americans, tempered by their knowledge of the flawed response to this high calling. 
"It has often been said," Weber commented, "that America is not a people or a geographic entity so much as an idea, a hope. From Massachusetts Bay through Vietnam and Watergate, the feeling persists, intense at times and perhaps faint now, that if :>inner originated. 
"The SMC Community Relations Council, which exists to relate the city to the college, suggests programs that the college might sponsor which would be of value to the community. The Council has suggested and the music and drama department have accepted the idea of a Williamsburg Din­ner," Detzler stated. 
The SMC Community Relations Council is composed of both people from· the college and from the 
America is truly the last best .hope community of South Bend. 
of man, then· that hope lies not so much in material prosperity as in moral attainment." 
Weber is co~hairman of the Bicentennial planning committee with Dr. Thomas P. Bergin, dean of continuing education at Notre Dame. 
Among the cultural events that are being planned is a Williams­burg Dinner on April 1 through 3 
The format of the evening will be similar to that of the SMC Madri~~:al Dinners. 
Seating will be limited to two hundred people per night, ac­cording to Mary Gerber, coor-
The St. Mary's and Notre Dame Bicentennial celebration will culminate with a March 11 per­formance by the Preservation Hall 
IJazz Band from New Orleans, according to Mary Gerber, SMC programming director. These musicians have the distinction of having created the original New Orleans jazz music in the legen­dary bands of New Orleans. They are among the few living jazzman who originated the style. Today they are traveling the world rather than just the streets of New Orleans. These musicians bring the 

Now, full scholarship assistance for your junior and senior years, plus chance to become a leader in the nuclear energy 'iield. 
Tuition. books and educational fees are all included in this new NROTC Nuclear Propulsion Candidate program. Along with $100 a month to help you with your living expenses. And on top of that you have an opportunity to build a rewarding career for yourself in the fast-growing nuclear energy field. 
To qualify, you must have completed one semester each of calculus and physics, or two semesters of calculus and have a B-average or better. 
'Depending upon your performance. you will be inter­viewed during your senior year for the Navy's Nuclear Program and for training as a Navy Nuclear Officer. 
.,._ 
If you can qualify for the demanding yet rewarding nuclear field you can anticipate five years of employ­ment as a regular Navy officer. 
For full details on this new NROTC Nuclear Propulsion Candidate program, phone or see your local Navy recruiter. 
Be someone special in the Navy. 
Lt. Schaffer 
NROTC Unit 
Telephone 6442 
original1New Orleans music, not fthe elaborate1straw hat Dixieland, ~o audiences everywhere. .Everyone in the band is over sixty, ~nd they have been playing this !music for more than forty years. ' In addition to the jazz band, the South Bend Symphony and a South Bend Bicentennial Drum 
•and Fife Corps, comprised of twenty-five public school children are scheduled to perform. Kenneth Geoffroy, coordinator of the Fint: Arts South Bend Community School Corporation, is in charge of , forming the South Bend Drum and 
Fife Corps. 
Both Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
are urging academic units and 
student organizations to turn the 
events they sponsor during the 
entire 1975-76 academic year to 
Bicentennial themes. Chairing 
this effort are Sister Maria 
Assunta Werner of St. Mary's and 
Dr. James L. Massey of Notre 
Dame. 
The Steering Committee, which 
is planning the Bicentennial, is 
comprised of Detzler, professor of 
history and Special Assistant to the ' 
President at SMC, Richard W. 
Conklin, director of the depart­
ment of information services at 
ND, Bergin, and Weber. 
Students from Maryland, Washington, or Virginia who are interested contact Detzler . 
LOCATED US 33 AT IRONWClioD  
Call  I 288-0033  I  
If Na Ana Call 282-2366  
w  
I  
1­ 
Reservations 284-4176  Students-Faculty-staff  

PEACE CORPS/VISTA 
ON CAMPUS 
April 22, 23 
Library Lobby 


Long distance still is the next best thing to being there. And you can save money by calling nights or weekends. 

@Indiana Bell 


Wednesday, April 23, 1975 the observer 
Rugby team beats Buckeyes 
<continul'd from page 8) O'Connor scored ND's lone try of the afternoon, picking up the ball out of a loose serum and going untouched for 25 yards into the OSU endzone. "It was kind of a frustrating game for us as every time we would score the ref would call us back for some penalty, yards away," commented soph Pete 'Algernon' Schreck. "We out­played, outhustled, and outhit them <Ohio State), but came up emptvhanded . .' The Irish 'greenies', the 'C' team, despite less experience <Ohio State fields five rugby teams l showed their winning spirit  in goose-egging OSU 7-Q on scores by Greg Zipf (try) and Matt _Gambee (penalty kick). The Irish greenies are un­defeated this spring and have allowed only three points to be scored on them. They have maintained this record despite many squad members who had up until this spring never played the great game known as rugby. If there was ever a chance to witness rugby for the first time, it's this Saturday against perennial powerhouse and current Midwest champs, the Chicago Lions. It seems that the Irish have a 37-4 loss <last fall> to settle with the Lions. "All season long we have been  1 waiting for this team," insisted senior Casey. "They abused during the game last fall, then they abused us at the party after the game, which is against all rugby · tradition. "They Uhe Lions) consider / themselves the best rugby side in the Midwest. This game Saturday will be a total psyche game for us," added Casey. All three games are free this Saturday, beginning at one ('B' i game), two ('A' game), and three ('C' game) at the fields behind Stepan.i ~-. -­---­--···-­":"'.. ~ BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY  
Irish Trac:k team fares  Good Potential Income  
No Age Barrier  

Full or Part Time
well in Ohio State relays I 
Contact D. A. Doxie 503 N. Blaine Ave. 
The Notre Dame Track team This weekend the track team 
South Bend, IN
traveled to Columbus this weekend splits up to participate in 2 meets to participate in the Ohio State 
(219) 234-4469 
the prestigious Drake Relays andrelays. The team fared very well the Ball St. relays.
in the competition, attended by -­twenty teams and made in­teresting by the presence of 
NOW 
gusting windds up to 30 mph. In the 2 and 4 mile relays the Irish were very strong, placing · I 
SUPER CIRKUS
second in both events. ND's 4 mile relay team of Mike Housley, Jim 
AND
Hurt, Joe Yates and Jim Reiinhart led until the last lap of the race 
.SOUTH SHORE-
until Michigan State's Herb Lind­say pulled ahead to give the Sparta!ls a victory. Purdue captured the 2 mile relay, with the Irish finishing second ahead of Eastern Michigan. 
The sprint medley from ND 
~S/,u/a~
finished fifth and the Distance 
NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS 
medley 7th. Individually, Notre 
on U.S. 31 INtween llilts, So. B•d-FrM l'artin&-~50. Dame's Bill George placed 3rd in the discus with a toss of 161. Freshman Mike Meyer was 7th with a toss of 152'2", his best ever. I ,__..,.....-== 
~-------------------------­
1 STILL HUNTING FOR AN I 
I
IAPARTMENT FOR NEXT YEAR ?I 
I CAMPUS VIEW ONE AND TWO I
I BEDROOM FURNISHED APARTMENTS I I LOOK WHAT WE I I HAVE TO OFFER: I 
I I 
II * 2T(~~~!~.~S:!2.Yu~!~ I I 
II * INDOOR SWIMMING POOL I 
I * C?co~~~~~~P~;ta~e~!~~~~n~l~achine) I 
1 * DEAID-BOLT LOCKS I I * EXCELLENT SECURITY I 
I *BASKETBALL COURT * SHAG CARPETING I 
I * 2 BATHS IN THE 2 -BEDROOM * DISHWASHERS II
APTS.
I
I *SOUND CONDITIONED * PRIVACY I 
I * REGULAR SOCIAL ACTIVITIES * ~AUNDRY FACILITIES IINOW RENTING FOR SUMMER AND FALL SEMESTER I 1 ('7 5 -'76 SCHOOL YEAR) I I FOR RENTAL INFORMATION CALL 272-1441 
I ICAMP!:!S V!_E~-~!~_RTMENTS I 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED Need stuff shipped to Long Island? 
· Need ride to East Lansing or Ann Call Tom, 1728, or Greg, 1751. Cheap
I Arbor this Fri., April 25. Call Ron, rates. 
[ 3306. Summer storage, dry, clean, safe. Need 2 housemates for next year. . Reasonable rates, pick up and Good deal . gOOd house. Call Frank, deliver at dorm. Call Mrs. Cooper, 234-6535. 272-300.(. 
Need ride to Detroit, May 2. Call MANAGEMENT TRAINEE 
1132. To$14,000 
Ready for a new career? We are Men & women: earn $150 per week interviewing tor a management or more selling Valeer Home Care training program that will allow you Products in the South Bend area. to earn $25,000 or more in 5 years Can continue part-time next fall. while representing our top team of Training provided In the Hostess financial specialists in Equities, Party and Solicitation sales Insurance, Mortgages, and Tax programs. Call afternoons, except Shelters. Send your resume' to Mondays, or call Saturday mor­Charles M. Newbanks nings. Thomas Distributing, 256-120 W. LaSalle, Suite 906 0547. South Bend, IN 46601 
Need ride to Exit 12 Ohio TurnpikeHelp wanted: students for light (Akron) this Friday. Call Boc 1152. 
1 office work and telephone sales, r salary and commission. Apply 224 Handmade turquoise jewelry from ', W. Jefferson, corner of Lafayette St. 
Santa Fe -j·Jst above wholesale \ Room 313. prices i no middleman. Call 287-0076 after 7. 
· Students for light delivery, excellent pay. A.A.A. Advertising. Apply 224 N.Y.C. Met. Club baggage truck to 
W. Jefferson, corner of Lafayette St. L.I.-NYC: call 3007 or 1986 •or in­Room 313. 
formation. 
Need ride to Cleveland Thursday. 
Call Tom, 8943. 
FOR RENT 
Need ride to Purdue this weekend. 
Houses near campus for summer.
I Call 3580. 
Rent low and negotiable. Ideal for
j-------sumrner school student(s) or anyone staying for the summer. Phone Marty Quirk at 289-3751. 
1 FOR SALE I Furnsihed: house and apartments
1 Peugeot 10-speed bicycle, $50. 
and small house near NO. SummerDavid, 8857. 
only. 272-6174. 
Piano for sale by off-campus senior. 
2 rooms-private. $50. Kitchen, rides.
$100 or best offer. Call Ted, 289-1775. 
233-1329. 
2 bedroom home, 1 mile from NO. 
1 Furnished apt. 503 W. JeffersonCall 272-9990. 
duplex. 3 rooms, second floor. Gas heat furnished. 289-6307, 234-0596.
Stereo -Panasonic quadraphonic 
model, AM-FM radio. Bought one Three bedroom house close to NO,year ago. Excellent condition. $145. 
May 15 to Aug. 15. Carpeted andLiz, 4798. 
paneled living room -complete kitchen -washer and dryer, allLike new Wilson Walker Cup golf utilities included -$150 per month.
set. 4 irons, 2 woods, putter, golden Call Mrs. Cooper, 272-3004.
bear bag. 1534. 
House for rent: summer rental. 4Olds Cutlass '67, small engine, gOOd bedroom, excellent location. 287­mileage, S-track tape. $500. 
7981.
New Remington 12-gauge pump 
magnum. $120. 
1974 12 x 60 mobile home located inCaII 284-4008 or 234-8679. 
Village Green, Mishawaka. Two bedroom furnished (or un­Bicycle, 24-inch, $15. Call Walt, 3108 furnished), $120 per month. Prefer
after 11:30 pm. 
12 mo. lease but will ct'nSide-r 9 mo. terms. Call eves, 259-0051
Now renting: Campus View 
Apartments. Still some choice 1 and CABINS ON LAKE MICHIGAN2 bedroom apartments available. 
FOR RENT: only 30 min. fromCall 272-1441 for information or stop campus. GINTARAS RESORT,over and see the model apartment at 15860 Lake Shore Rd., Union Pier,
54585 Irish Way. 
Mich. 616-469-3298. 
Stereo tor sale. Desperately need the 
money -best offer takes all. Steve, LOST AND FOUND
1403. 
Found: Strake Jesuit College Prep
Bar with built-in refrigerator, 
ring. Call 3795 to identify.
beginner golf clubs with carrier. 
Auto S-track tape with 4-speakers Lost: Omega watch at Tug 0 War.
and in-out mount. Needs minor Reward. Call 8816.
repair. To highest bidder. Gil, 1060. 
Lost: pocket lnstamatic behindPioneer PL-51 turntable with Audio Stepan. Bill Higgins, 1681.
Technica AT-12S cartridge. 180 or 
best offer. Call Ed, 1389 or 1487. 
PERSONALS
1971 Yamaha street bike -200cc . 5 speed electric start. 1972 Ford Torino -2 Dr. Hardtop white vinyl COLOR Sports and Campus Pictures top. Both in very gOOd condition. 232-at Reasonable Prices. Orders being6488. taken Wed. and Thur., 6·8 p.m. 131 
Breen-Phillips. 
NOTICES Tillie, Cathy, & Mitch: 
' Congratulations: be sure to save us Does your home need painting? Two some beep. experienced students will paint The Family interior-exterior. Very reasonable1 Call 234-1889 for free estimate. Pasquale: 
I've enjoyed working with you and Please, please return stolen 1D's, your crew this year. Have a good license found in red wallet Fri. April birthday. 
18. You don't need them. 1 do, Paul desperately. To LeMans desk or 
5449. To the Roman Pontiff: Your forces are scattered; accede! Will do typing, experienced. Call233-The Harlot comes. 
8512. AntiChristal Forces 
Always the best in gas sales and First Floor Farley Fresh '!n: 
mechanical work now at Tom's Karen. K.K.• Claire, Barb, /1!' 'ha, University Standard, corner of Annie, Kathy, Beulah, and· oor Ironwood and State Rd. 23. 10 per-' Nancy: cent discount to N D & SMC students Thanks. on all purchases except gas. Two Can 
Sell your books before the rush. God is either an Eskimo or c JCk, Paperback and texts. Buying hours and furthermore, he doesn't ' 'e. 2:30-3:30, Pandora's Books. BQ 
Free room in exchange for child Cafeteria . dancing can be tu1 ~ Ask care. Details negotiable. Phone 232-for Egan, SMC dining hall, ai er 5 6362. pm. Boogaloo! 
Typing, editing, dissertation Brad and Jan comm•: ed specialists. 1BM, special symbols. engagement, April 21, 1975. Linda's Letters, 289-5193. 
Yes, it's a man's watch -my fiance Need help with term papers, gave It to me just before he went reports, etc? Write Michiana overseas. Reference Service for rates and 1 Silver Wrist details. P.O. Box 62.t7, South Bend, 
IN 46615. 1 
Dear Mlck:IYour Pangbornlan connection still Men and women with two years o• 
refuses to fork over. Tough luck. college left! Want to invest six 
Flyln' Highweeks this summer and assure yourself a second career as an Army 
Happy Birthday, John M.
officer upon graduation? Earn 
Two Dirty Sheep
approximately S500 this summer and gain self-confidence! No obligation. For information contact Chester, Chester,CPT Weimer at 283-6265 about Army How do your Gardenias grow?ROTC Basic Camp. _____...;;;..._____
-~ 
RIDE-A-BIKE FOR THE RETARDED on Sunday, April 27. 
• 
--~ -~ ------------------------------­
Randy Stehlik-12-0 and looking towards tourney 
w•esc~av, April 23, 1975
the observer 
by John Vincent says. "We turned out a lot of 
college prospects. My coach (Joe 
If there is a key to playing tennis Saine> sent his graduating starting well, it has to be concentration. But six to Indiana State one year and Notre Dame's Randy Stehlik has they took over every starting found something else in-position." dispensable-the ambition to go to Stehlik was a highly sought after a tournament. prospect himself, receiving a 
"The basic reason that I have substantial number of offers from worked so hard is because of my Eastern and Ivy League schools desire to go to the NCAA Tour-and also colleges from the Mid­nament," admits Stehlik. "That's west. But fortunately for the Irish very, very important to me." he chose Notre Dame. 
And Stehlik is certainly having "When I was looking at colleges, the year to do it. At the time of this 1 wanted to go to a place with a writing, he had recorded a 12-0 good architecture school and a season mark , and was riding a 21-challenging tennis program. Those game winning streak. The last kind are few and far between. But I match he lost was agianst Iowa in have found both here." April of last year. And Stehlik has certainly been 
"Randy is playing very well," successful in each. Besides his adds his coach Tom Fallon. "If he enviable tennis record, he owns a beats this boy from Michigan 3.4 average in the College of <Victor Amaya> he could very well Engineering. It has not been easy be in contention for the NCAAs." as he admits, "My major has 
But winning is nothing new to presented some problems." the sophomore from Peru, Ind. GM would like to have the list of While captaining the Peru High's assets Stehlik has. In the first tennis squad all four years, he place he is left-handed the only recor.ded 68 straight ~ictories.and ; southpaw on the squad. 'secondly, 
led h1s teammates !O f1v~ straight conference championships, cap-t~ring. th.e Indiana State Cham­p10nsh1p m 1970-71. 
"The competition was very strong at my high school," Randy he is an intense performer. 
"One thing that has certainly helped me this year has been my ability to concentrate. Last year I was still getting acclimated to the place and I found that my mind 
*ObServer 
Sports 
Chip Scanlon ~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:::::::=:=:=:=:::=:=:::=:=:::::::::::::::::: 
Extra Points 
=:::=:::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::Women s sports status 
At a time when women's athletics are undergoing a very uncertain 
period in their existence, Notre Dame's womens sports have not escaped 
this trend. The Womens Athletic Association, an organization promoting 
opportunities for Notre Dame women to compete in Varsity level sports, 
met Monday night with the Athletic Board requesting a change to varsity 
status for several women's sports. After what Athletic Director "Moose" 
Krause called an "amiable and constructive meeting" there is still no 
change in status, but the door is anything but closed to future con­
siderations. 
The WAA had proposed that tennis, golf, basketball and fencing be 
rt>cognized by the University as 'Varsity sports and that all the rewards 
as well as rigors go along with such a change. This would include a 
minimum amount of proactice time, pre-season practice, class 
scheduling preferences, trophies, and monograms. A second item in the 
proposal asked that club status be granted for swimming, track, field 
hockey and volleyball. A third aim was that some sort of women's sport 
coordinator be named to "direct, advise, budget, and coordinate Notre 
Damt> Women's Athletics"as well as implement other activities with St. 
l\1ary's College. At present there is no woman representative on the 
Athletic Board and only one i woman in the Physical Education 
Dt>partment, Miss Astrid Hotvedt, who doubles as advisor to the WAA. 
Under ideal circumstances this proposal would meet with little op­
position because as Krause commented, "We want girls to participate as 
much as possible" in sports here at Notre Dame. But with women's 
sports being in existence for only three years, a relatively short time in 
comparison with men's programs, coupled with the fact that it would 
create a "financial burden on Athletic funds," it seems that women's 
athletics will have to proceedjjust as men's sports have in the past and 
art> doing right now. 
Under the current system a sport must operate for one year on its' own 
hPfore it will be granted club status. From there, if interest is main­
tained, in three to five years there is the possibility of gaining Varsity 
status. Dominic Napolitano, Dir~.Ctor of Non-Varsity Sports, has said 
!hat "the girls must show interest that is developed among themselves 
and maintain this interest." Girl's field hockey has just been added to the 
list of club sports because of the interest shown for it over the past year 
and this is the path that other sports have to follow. 
Womt>n's fencing is one sport that might end up with Varsity status 
bt>cause it has been in operation at various levels for three years and has 
ahd a strong record in these three Iyears. As soon as fencing files a 
proposal for such status it will be considered by the Athletic Board ac­
cording to Atheletic Director Krause. 
Overall the proposal was met with all the cooperation that could be 
given it, and the exception of fencing, it looks as if for the time being there 
will be no drastic chanJ;!es for women's sports. 
The meeting was a success in that it woke the Athletic Board up to the I growing interest for women's sports. Women's athletics have made great I bounds in their three year existence and if the support and enthusiasm continues to be generated by organizations such as the WAA, within three to five years the complexion of women's sports here at Notre Dame will f 
THE NO rugby team gained victories from the "A" and "C" squads 1 no doubt have changed dramatically. , over Ohio State this weekend. (Photo by Chris Smith,) 

would wander during a match. I wasn't thinking enough about tennis. If you want to win, though, tennis is the only thing that you can 
! think about when you are on the court." Aside form the psychological aspect, Randy finds his serve to be 
1 1 a big plus. "My serve is the most potent aspect of my game," he adds. "I try to use a variety of serves to challenge my opponents. For example, sometimes I have to use a top-spin on my serve to drive the other guy back towards the baseline. On other occasions, I will use a slice tomove the ball in or 
out against the receiver, depending on the situation." 
About the only thing that has given Stehlik any trouble has been the weather. "This has to be about the worst climate to play tennis in. 
Youcan't get outside enough, but that works you work harder. It also makes you appreciate the nicer climates." 
Although he has already battled IRISH TENNIS STAR Randy Stehlik is undefeated this year and is twelve opponents, Stehlik and his hoping for an NCAA tournament bid. teammates enter perhaps their 
"Victor Amaya of Michigan is right by you."
biggest week of action on Wed­extremely strong," relates Stehlik. It's clear that Stehlik faces a few nesday, when they square off "There are rumors that he is going stumbling blocks before he can against Michigan, followed by 
to turn pro. You have to keep the achieve his goal of going to the Iowa, Michigan State and ball away from mid-eourt and the NCAAs. But with his intense desire Wisconsin. All of the matches are baseline against him because he is and physical ability he has a goodat home. so powerful that he can blow it chance. 
Irish power past Falcons 10-4 in opener, then lose nightcap 
by Rich Odioso 
"Close but no cigar" had been lht> story where Bob Stratta and homt>runs were concerned. Despite a number of long drives over the last two years, Stratta was homerless until yesterday. His three-run shot capped a six-run second inning as Notre Dame beat Bowling Green 10-4 in the opener of a doubleheader. The Irish dropped lhe nightcap 6-1. 
ND, now 14-7,hosts Cincinnati, one of their leading rivals for an NCAA at-large berth, in a 1 p.m. doubleheader on Cartier Field. Stratta and Bob Hughes, who betwt>en them have accounted for half Notre Dame's wins this st>ason. will pitch against the BParcats who stood 12-9 on Sunday. 
Coach Glenn Sample's team earned an NCAA bid last year despite two losses to the Irish. 
Notre Dame jumped on top of BG with two in the top of the opener's first inning. Singles by Tommy Millt>r and Jim Smith, a walk and an Prror accounted for the runs. Tht> Irish made it 8-0 with six in the second. Pitcher Romie Sch­wit>terman set the stage with three walks. A passed ball and Miller's singlt> accounted for three runs and tht>n after another walk Stratta connected for his three-run shot off rt>liever Jim Joyce. 
Joyce threw another gopher ball in tht> fourth when Smith touched off his third homer of the season. Millt>r singled in Notre Dame's final run in the seventh with his third hit. Mt>anwhile Jim Sholl pickPd up his third win keeping BG at bay with the exception of a thrt>P-run third. 
Falcon star Kip Young was too much for the Irish in the second gamt>. picking up his seventh win of the season without a loss. 
Young. who plays outfield when ht>'s not pitching, aided his cause with a third inning homer which touched off a four-run rally off ND frt>shman Joe Karpowicz making his first start. Notre Dame picked up its run in the fifth when Smith walkt>d and Stratta doubled, one of st>vt>n Irish hits off Young and rt>lit>vt>r Kt>n Widdel who pitched tht> last two innings. 
IH ISH ITEMS -Tommy Miller snappt>d out of a slump with four hits in nine tries, scoring twice and driving in three runs ... Stratta has now driven in 21 runs in 20 games, Smith with four runs scored yestt>rday leads the team with 17... Bowling Green, mentiont>d in this wt>ek's "Collegiate Baseball" national powt>r rankings, is now 17­9 ... Smith and Pat Coleman had two hits in the second game and Stan Bobowski hit a triple as the Irish left nine men stranded ... 
ND Buggers defeat Ohio State 
' by Bob Kissel Columbus, the 'A' team won 12-10, 
. the 'B' team dropped a 7-4 'Woody Hayes wasn't there, but decision, while the 'C' side con­then again it's probably better he tinued their undefeated spring by wasn't. Notre Dame defeated the blanking the young Bucks 7-0. Buckeyes of Ohio State in football. "The backs played spec­English football that is, better tacularly, hustling and in­known as rugby. Last Saturday at timidating the Ohio backs from the 

start," offered team cap­tainLarry Casey. "The serum, though easily outsized by the Buckeyes, won many of the serums and Iineouts because we hustled the ball better." 
Former Irish footballer, now rugger, Gerry DiNardo used his size and aggressiveness for a first half four point try. DiNardo blasted over the goal line from five yards to give ND a 4-0 lead. Casey converted on the kick. DiNardo was named MVP in the game for his efforts. 
Mighty mite Richie Arensberg tallied the other Irish try when he fell on a Buckeye kick in their endzone. Casey converted on the kick giving the Irish a 12-0 lead. OSU scored twice late in the game, but ND stiffened their defense until the final whistle. 
"Probably the key to our win was that the whole team, even the backs, were really hitting, which put pressure on the Ohio back­field," added Casey. "The Buckeyes started hearing foot­steps and were making many passing mistakes." 
The ND 'B' team was not so fortunate as they ran into some rather odd refereeing, having three s<:ores called back. Bob 
(continued on page 7) 
