

Orientation Committee sponsors Activity Night 

by Shawn Scannell Staff Reporter 
All of Notre Dame's and· St. Mary's clubs, organizations and activities will present them­selves to students tonight at LaFortune Student Center from 7 p.m. until midnight. Nearly seventy organizations will be represented in various places in LaFortune during this Activities Ni!Olht. 
Activities Night is a chance for all students to see what organizations are open ori campus, and simultaneously to see what each offers. It is an opportunity to meet with members of the clubs and to get involved in these clubs. 
The orgamzations, both from Notre Dame and St. Mary's, represent a wide ~ariety of interest, including media groups, sports clubs, volunta_ry organizations, travel clubs, and many spec1al interest clubs. 
Harry Bainbridge, co-chairman of Activi~ies Night, said "We encourage all students, not JUSt rreshmen, to take advantage of this opportunity_ to become acquainted with the various clul;>s existing on campus. We especially urge the fresh­men to come to get to know what's offered and hopefully get involved somewhere." · 
Bainbridge added, "This is the final activity of the Jo'reshman Orientation Committee, and I hope it will be a successful culmination of the last weeks' efforts." 
· Signs will be posted in LaFortune directing ­students to the various booths of the clubs. Basically, club locations will run according to the rollowing floor plans. 
Student government will be in their offices on the second floor. Media groups, such as the Ob­st·•·ver, Dome, and the Scholastic will also be in their offices on the third floor. Sports clubs will be in the Hathskeller in the basement. 
Nearly all of the voluntary organizations, such as the Knights of Columbus, Neighborhood Study Help, Right to Life and Head Start will be located in the ballroom on the second floor. Special clubs, such as the Photography Club, Pre-law Society, Mardi Gras Committee and SMC Coffeehouse will he located in the ballroom as well. 
Volunteers help r·etarded children 
by Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor and Rick LaSalvia 
The child came tottering down the hallway holding on to a railing attached to the wall. He was small for his age and looked about ten years old. Despite his wobbliness he was grinning happily at the student standing a few steps in front of him and encouraging him to keep walking. "Come on, Jimmy, you can walk this far, that's the way. Good!" The child reached his friend and received a squirt of jui<;e as a reward, grinning even more broadly 
observer 
insight 
The child is a patient at the Northern Indiana State Hospital and Developmental Disability Center <NISH-DDCl, the low grayish building on the corner of Angela and Notre Dame Avenue, a center for the care and education of severely and moderately retarded children. 
The student is a volunteer from Notre 
Dame, one of about 80 who spend time 
every week working with the children. 
Volunteer work counts for a considerable 
part of the effort put into a program that 
attempts to bring these children up to their 
full potential. 
t"ormerly substandard 
However, it ·was not long ago that in 
venturing into the facility then known as 
the Northern Indiana Children's Hospital 
one was struck by the reality that the in­
stitution was caring for over 130 retarded 
children under grossly substandard 
conditions. 
Originally constructed in 1950 as a 
hospital for children crippled by polio, it was converted into a custodial facility for the retarded in 1961. For 12 years it was virtually ignored by the state government as conditions gradually deteriorated. 
Major building repairs were left undone and broken windows went unreplaced for nearly ten years, simply being boarded up with plywood. By 1972 NISH was so overcrowded that it housed nearly twice the number of children for which it was originally constructed. 
In the summer of 1972 the staff coverage in the ·,hospital was less than 40 percent of the minimum acceptable standard of the Joint Accreditation Council for the Mentally Retarded. 
During this period there were four oc­casions when one staff member had to care for 76 non-toilet-trained individuals and three occasions when three staff members attempted to cover the entire building. 
Because of the lack of proper staff coverage, isolation rooms were employed to deal with hyperactive children, and handicapped and non-ambulatory children spent most of their time confined to their rooms. 
Education programs during these years involved only a limited number of residents, !considered to be the most trainable. 
Thus the facility lptown as the Northern Indiana Children's Hospital was a closed, depressing,-sterile environment which in no way resembled the living conditions of the children's non-retarded peers. 
Reforms 

Yet enormous change has occurred at the hosptial in the last three years. Dr. Robert Crow, the new superintendent, characterizes it as a switch from a "custodial hose-'em-down twice-a-day attitude to an emphasis on education and comprehensive behavioral modification programs." 
Crucial to this change has been a reduction in the number of children at the 
f 
~ 

Most science-oriented clubs, such as 38. Physics Club and American Chemical Society can be found in the carm room on the first 39. floor. Travel clubs will be on the second floor 40. in the Advanced Student Lounge. 40. 
Directions to any particular club' . location 41. will be available at LaFortune tonight. 42. 
Bainbridge also urged that club representatives report to the information 43. booth at the main entrance between 6 and 6:30 44. p.m., before things get under way. 45. 
1. 
Pool Room 

2. 
Campus Press 

3. 
Lounge 

4. 
International Student's Lounge

5. 
International Student's Office 

6. 
Rathskeller 7&8. Coke Bar 


9. 
Ladies Room 

10. 
Morrissey Loan Fund 

11. 
Debate Club 

12. 
Minority Student Counseling 

13. 
Campus Press Darkroom 

14. 
Campus Press 

15. 
MECHA 

16. 
Huddle 

17. 
Men's Room 

18. 
Tom Dooley Room 

19. 
Caron Court 

20. 
Ampitheatre 

21. 
Card Room 

22. 
Telephones 

23. 
Lounge 

24. 
Ladies Room 

25. 
Men's Room 26&27. Student Activities Office 


28. 29. 30. 31. 32. 33. 34. 35. 36. 37. 

hospital from over 130 to an average of 90 
and a considerable increase in the number 
of staff members. Crow explained that 
some of the older children were shifted to 
nursing homes and to other,hospitals while 
other children were put into foster homes 
and home-like environments. 
Training for those still at the center aims at teaching the children by means of carefully detailed programs in which the tasks to be learned are broken up into simple steps. Each step is taken one at a time. Each advance a child makes is quickly "reinforced" by rewards like candy, juice or compliments. 
Tasks to be learned fall into three 

general areas according to Education 
Director Jim Christian. 
I "Most important are the self-help skills like dressing and feeding themselves, taking baths and brushing their teeth by themselves, and, most basically, toilet training. A retarded child who isn't toilet trained will be cut out of any training in the schools because no teacher is going to keep cleaning up after him." 
The second area is that of pre-academic skills--playing with toys properly, learning about colors, sizes and shapes and so on-­things which normal children pick up without special training but which...can be a real problem for the residents. 
Third, the education programs aim to eliminate "maladaptive behaviors"-­things like hitting oneself or throwing tantrums. Here the most severe punish· ment that can be used is to place a child in a bare room for a few minutes until he quiets down. The usual procedure stresses rewards for correct behavior rather than punishment for incorrect. 
The children are divided into groups called "modules" on the basis of their Skill levels, each module having five to 15 children. Each module has a group of staff members charged with the day to da~ training and care of the children. 
(continued on page 3) 
Lounge • 
Ladies Room 
Ladies Room 
Men's Room 
Student Government 
Black Cultural Arts Center Advanced Students Lounge Lounge Meeting Room Student Union 
Student Government Union Reception Area Ballroom Ballroom LoungeScholastic _.,..._ DOME 
Observer 
Club Offices 
Conference Room 



Wilson retires 
by Mary Reher Senior Staff Reporter
• 
Vice-President of Business Affairs Fr. Jerome Wilson said yesterday there is a ". eal" possibility he may retire at the end of the school year. 
"This will be my 24th year in this position, but there is always the temp­tation to work 25 years at a job," he stated. 
University policy_ usually requires ad­ministrators and faculty members to retire at 65, he noted. However, not all do retire at that age. 
"They can always request to stay on the job, and some are asked by the university to continue in their work," Wilson ex­plained. 
"If I should decide to retire, Univeristy President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh and Executive Vice-President Fr. Edmllhd Joyce will hire the new person," he stated. 
They may hire someone from another school or from the business world, he pointed out. 
"It would seem to me that my assistant, Bro. Kieran Ryan, a most able man, would be considered in the running," Wilson said. In that case, someone would be hired to take over Ryan's present work, he noted. A familiarity with computers would greatly help the new person, Wilson added. 
"Although we do not use computers directly in this office, we are trying to establish a Management Information System throughout the University. Consequently a knowledge of computers would be helpful to the man coming into my position," Wilson observed. 
According to Wilson, the Busoness Af­fairs Office handles four main areas. 
First, it deals with the financial areas of the .university, such as accounting and budgeting. Second, it has charge of university maintenance and utilities. Third, it is responsible for the general operation of auxiliary enterprises, such as the dining halls and the bookstore. 
"Finally," Wilson added, "we handle areas that fit between the cracks such as personnel and purchasing." 
If Wilson should decide to retire, he probably would continue to work at the University in some lesser capacity, he said. · 
Prior to his appointment as vice­president of business affairs, he taught accounting in the College of Business Administration. 

Fr. Jerome Wilson 
Student Union claims goods 
The Student Union Service Commission still has items form summer storage llhat have not been picked up by students. Student Union Services Commissioner Casey Nolan said yesterday that students missing summer storage items should first check Stepan Center where the remaining items are now stored. 
"Any items that aren't removed from Stepan by Friday will become Student Union property," Nolan warned. 
Nolan advised students to check Stepan Center before filing for insurance on lost 
roperty. 
Students with questions on storage 

should contact Student Union at Tl57 or 
Nolan at 8995. 


.....---f--------­
r 2 the observer Tuesday, September 16, 1975 To elect officers 
"Unfortunately, some folks down his life for his friends." In the main, he said, the 

are attempting to see this as The Duke group has con­Duke group has been substitut­•.............................,.....•.......... 

'neuterizing' God," said the \"erted that passage to: "Great­ing "God'' for the pronoun : HOKEY'S CAPN CORK : 
Rev.. Robert Young, chaplain at Pr love has no one than this "Him" whenever possible· and, • • Duke University. "It's more that one should lay down one's in some instances, praying, : Under new management : positive than that." life for a friend." "Oh God. our Father-Mother." 
Under the Rev. Mr. Young's The Rev. Mr. Young said So far. the group has left in­: See Notre Dame Football and : guidance, a group of male and there has been no major oppo-tact the masculine pronouns re­• z. female Duke students are re­sit ion.' ferring to Jesus Christ. 
iMon. Niqht Footb~ll on our 6ft. -TV screen.: 
writing not only hymns and "We .aren't making total "Jesus was more than a man. He was the fulfillment of • • 'personhood,' for all persons, : NOW SERVING SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST: both men and women," the • • Hev. Mr. Young said. : GLASS OF BEER :
Frosh registers 

However, he said: "There • • are stude~ts and some faculty : 24oz · 60~ : -who in their own private pray­•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
warld briefs 
BEIRUT Lebanon (AP> -Eritrean rebels threatened on Monday to kill four American prisoners held in a mountain c~ve in northern Ethiopia unless the United States halts arms supphes to Ethiopia's military regime. 
I 
INUIANAPOLIS (AP>-A total of 264 encephalitis cases now are under study and investigation in Indian, and laboratory work l"Ontinues in connection with 10 suspected encephalitis deaths, the Slate Hoard of Health reported Monday. 
HOM 1<: (AP > -J. Paul Getty III's apartment was set on fire 1\londay and newspapers reported that the blaze might be a Mafia­style warniing to keep silent about his kidnaping two years ago. 
(ietty, grandson of the American oil billionaire, has been living in Califo;·nia since he was released in exchange for $2.8 million ransom on Dec. 15. 1973. 
WASHINGTON (AP>-The Federal Reserve Board said Mon­day that the nation's industrial output showed the sharpest in­crease in nearly three years last month, capping a four-month r·esurgence which was both longer and more robust than originally reported. ' 

an campus l:aday 
tuesday, september 16, 1975 9:30am to 3 pm .. workshop, "child abuse and neglect," carroll hall 
6:30 pm to 10 pm --interview info., placement nights spon. by placement bureau, eng. aud. 
7:30pm--lecture, "the investment outlook" by joe alaimo, v.p. of continental ill. bank & trust co. of chicago, spon. by bus. admn. & econ., carroll hall 
7:30 to 9 pm .. exhibit, grad student art show, thru sat. sept. 27, isis gallery (n.w. corner of fieldhouse) 

At Duke 
Students rewrite 'sexist scriptures' 

DURHAM, N.C. (AP) prayers but passages of Scrip­breaks. anyhow. We still use Some Christians are taking the ture. Ultimately, an entire the 'Glory be to the Father and "Him" out of the hymnals. "nonsexist" Bible may develop. to the Son and to the Holy 
They say if humans were "in For instance, in a standard (ihost.' and, of course, the the image and likeness of lranslation, John 15:t3 reads: Lord's Prayer, starting, 'Our God," then God must be both "'Greater love hath no man Father, who art in heaven masculine and feminine. than this that a man should lay he said. 
The Notre Dame St. Mary's There will be no exceptions. 
ers are referring to God as

Freshman_Registers are in and The Register is a yearly service 
'She' or 'Her'. But that kind of

will be distributed this week, ac­of Student Union. It is a directory 
thing is still very personal, not

cording to Register Editor, Mike of nearly all incoming Notre Dame 
public."

Gassman. and St. Mary's freshmen listing 
their names.honwtowns. hobbies, 

Gassman said that the Registers and expected majors, with an will be distributed Wednesday, accompanying phorograph. It also September 17, from 3:30 to 5:00 includes a 16-page introductory p.m., and Thursday, September 18, section that explains Notre Dame from 2:00 to 4:00 p.m. in LaFor­and St. Mary's campus life. tune Ballroom. If any problems develop, or if 
Students may pick up the books any student is interested in for themselves or friends at any working on the Register staff for time during that period, but must next year, contact Mike Gassman show their
,. 
I I I 
With presentation of Student ID CardIZ STUDENT this coupon entitles bearer to
IO
lA. 

l:::l DISCOUNT 
10 





len 2Qo/o
IU Pier11mports 
I­
I~ 
offlA., limit 1 coupon per customer I­Offer good until September 30, 1975
I ..... 
lu 
I
·--­
Foreign students to meet 
sisting of more than 100 members,
by Pat Cuneo have not yet registered. 
makes up a large sector of the
Staff R_eporter As stated in their constitution, 
organization.

the international students 
President Roberto Arguello
Members of the International congregate to create a closer 
related the significance of having
Students' Organization of Notre cooperation between nations 
individual clubs under the blanket
Dame will meet Wednesday for the through friendship and un­
~roup. "We meet with our students
election of officers at 7:30 p.m. in derstanding. Throughout the year 
on a regular basis and basically
LaFortune Student Center. they achieve this purpose through 
take care of its needs, yet we have
Director of lnternationalStudent meetings, social activities, 
the chance to present our ideas to
Affairs Fr. Daniel O'Neil said he discussions and various other 
all foreign students," he Pxplained. 
would like to see all international functions. 
Arguello added, "We .ook for­
students participate in the Designed to promote better 
ward to a very successful year but
organization this year and urged relations among foreign and 
of vital importance is the support
all to vote. American students, membership is 
and active participation of all
International students from Pan open to the Notre Dame-St. Mary's 
international students."
America, Africa, India, Asian College community. Society and virtually all fort· ~ners The organization meets for at are represented in the group. least three general meetings 
Representatives-· of the during the academic year and a organization will also be present at token memberhsip fee of 25 cents is Activities Night on Tuesday for the required. benefit of interested students who The Pan American Club, con-
Blood bank goal set 
The Notre Dame-St. ' Mary's north and south quads. Quan blood donation drive will begin leaders are Walt Bak, north, and 
recruiting volunteers at Activity Charlie Lucier, south. Colleen Night tonight. O'Rourke is St. Mary's coor­dinator.
Dave Clark, coordinator of this 
year's blood drive, expressed hope Each hall will have a volunteer that 2,000 pints of blood will be leader to sign up blood donors. The collected this year. "The need for sign-ups for blood collection dates 
blood has gone up 23 percent in the will begin on October l. 
South Bend area this year, due to Blood will be collected in the the new kidney machine at St. Notre Dame infirmary, starting Joseph's Hospital and because we October 14, on Tuesdays, Wed­
now have a practicing heart nesdays and Thursdays through surgeon in the area," Clark ex­December 4. plained. "If all goes well, we hope to The drive has been organized receive 48 pints from each hall," into two sections based around the 
statPd Clark. 

The Observer is published Monday through Friday an_d weekly during the summer session. except during exams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students ot the Univ. of Notre Dame and St Mary"s College. Subscriptions may be purchased 
tor 10 dollars per' semester ( 18 dollars per year) from The Ob server, Box Q, Notre Dame. In diana, 46556. Second Class postage paid. Notre Dame, .IN 46556. 
The University of Notre Dame Press announces the paperback editions of 
EXERCISES IN RELIGIOUS UNOERSTANDING 
by David B. Burrell, C. S. ·C., $4.95 
OCKHAM'S THEORY OF TERMS 
Translated and Introduced 
by Michael J. Loux, $4.95 
STRUCTURAL FABULATION: An Essay on Fiction of the Future by Robert Scholes, $2.95 
Now Available at 

The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 


THE POSTER PLACE 
100 11 x17 POSTERS only $10.00 
INSTY PRINTS 
203 N. MAIN ST. SOUTH BEND 289-6977 
NO AND SMC STUDENTS 
ONLY 
10', OfF ON ANYTHING IN THE STORE 
WITH ND OR SMC ID 
This Is An Everyday Special For Students 

.Jf$t.P.alitidtm 
JEWELERS 
lhuh II '11/'J : 
1 
,,.,.,,,,.,,...,.,,,,,. 
IIU.\1;1. \111.1. 
-----------~-----------­
Tuesday, September 16, 1975 the observer 
NISH volunteers help retarded children 
courts. following precedents from After a long period when the1<'olllinll<'d frn111 page 1) \'oluuteer Reactions ministration. 
In addition there are two "One of the most important several other states, held that all retarded were considered hopeless tt•achers with M.A.s and several Mim~· of the student volunteers functions of the hospital committee school-age children have a right to cases who should simply be put behavioral clinicians, nurses, and from Notre Dame find their work is recruiting new members," said free public schooling adapted to aside poeple and governments are therapists who work with children \'l'ry rewarding. "It can get one of its members. "The their functioning level. In accord beginning to realize that they can frommore than one module. discouraging sometimes," said recruiting drive centers around with this ruling nearly all the be helped. 
In the words of Dr. StanleyThe beginnings of the changes ilnl' volunteer. "and the kids do Activities Night when we man a school-aged children at NISH have ,Hauewas of the Notre Damedate back three years to the IParn slowly, but usually it is fun booth. Wl' will be looking for new been placed in special programs in 
theology department, "The
l'lection of the current governor of working with them--they are people this Tuesday night at the South Bend schools. 
Other educational programs that retarded are the sign that all men
Indiana, Otis Bowen. Bowen is a always happy to see you and you LaFortune." medical doctor who pushed for feel like you are doing a lot of good Mast stressed the importance of Crow hopes to develop further have significance beyond what 
involve contacts with the Notre they can do for us--<lur friend, ourmental health reform. During the hy trying to teach them and just by the volunteers to the Center's 
Dame and IUSB psychology playmate, our brother. Each of us
campaign. he toured the then­giving them some friendly in­programs in a letter to the 
departments, · especially a is precious and significant because
miserable conditions at the dividual contact." volunteers last -August. ":.The 
program run by Whitman which his being is grounded in God'shospital and promised action is Another volunteer agreed total volunteer impact in a combines teaching children from care.
t>lected. saying, "The staff is still monetary sense represents nearly NISH with scientific research by ''The retarded, the poor, the sickAfter his <•lection he named Dr. sonwwhat overloaded and often 20 percent of the annual budget," are but particularly intense forms
.John Cockshot as the new dopsn't have time for close, fri­lw said. the psychology department. Crow superintendent. Cockshot, who has l'ndly rPlationships with all the In addition to the direct impact also hopes to increase the current of God's call to every man through exchange programs with Logan every other. Thus God calls us to
since been made deputy com­kids--and the kids need that kind of of the volunteers themselves, the missioner of Indiana's mental thing.'' hospital received a federal grant of Center. the privately-run training regard each uther as ignificant as health program, changed the liP pointed out that the work $106.000 under a program which center for the retarded which is we exist for Him, as we are each 
purpOSl' of the hospital from takPs som<• getting used to: "The pays institutions for volunteer simply rustodial care to education, first t iml' I went through there it hours put in at them. A total of acquirl'd additional funds from the was n•ally depressing and I wasn't staJt• and fl'deral governments. sun· if t was going to be able to go ,, ~~­addt>d more and better-trained hack. But I found that if you stick 
~taff. and started the first out tlw initial reaction and come Pducat ional programs, beginning hack. you begin relating to the with tht• higher functioning and l'hildn•n as individuals instead as a nwrP t>asily taught children. b1g group of strange people." 
"Our goal now." Crow said, "is \'olunteers at NISH are coor­to makt-th<· Center a model dinatPd bv the volunteer services opt•ration for the whole state offi(·t• headed by Geraid Mast. syst t>m. trying out new programs Studt-nts from Notre Dame, St. and tPrhniques hen• which may be 1\lary's and IUSB work at the applit>d t>lsewhere." The Center is l'l'lltPr as wl'll as people from the idt•al in this regard because of the l'olllnHmity. including about 50 r<•latively small number of fostt•r grandparents--<llder people patil'nls and the availability of from town who receive a small lll'lp from neighboring universities stipend for working with the and eommunities. · ('hilnrf'n on an individual basio;; 
Oyer a hundred community groups 
\'olunterr t\id haw provided parties, Sunday 
schools and other services for the 
The work put in at the Center by n•sidents. some 200 volunteers from Notre !\lost of the volunteers from !lame. llJSH and the South Bend Notre l>aml' are connected with -Hi,79:~ \·olunteer were put in at the cl'nter during fiscal 1975 according to Mast's letter. 


.\ l.nng \\'a,\' to (io 
Although NISH has rome a long wa\ 111 thP last few vears. it still ha~ a long way to g~. 
1\lom·y is particularly tight. The. <'pntl'r's annual budget is a million dollars short of what is needed for aetTeditation. 1\tast said. Crow is hoping to gl't more money from the Indiana govl'rnment to fund programs for staff training. 
·V\'p want to get all of our staff trained in the basics of behavioral modifications and give the module <·ommunity makes an Important onP or both of two groups: ll'adl'rs morl' l'Xte'nsive training in <'Oilll'lhution to the C<•nter's work psychology Professor Thomas program d<•sign," Crow said. "We ;ll'l'ording to ('row. "The freshness Whitman·~ behavioral change now have the supervisory per· and warmth volunteers bring \'lass that combines class work in somwl--module leaders and nur­boosts grt-atly tht• attention offered hPiwvioral thl'ory with a training ~ing and programming super­
.tlw n·sid~>nt~ hv the regular staff. projPct at tl}c f'l'nter working with \'isors--in training." Four thousand hours service a a part ieular t•hild; and Manasa. a ''Christian defined the goal of the 1nonth is dt-ar demonstration of :"-:otn• l>anH' mental health ('t>ntt.>r as "ideally working our­th<· \'alut-of volunteers." l'oluntl.'er dub. sl'ln•s out of a job. We are aiming 
('hnstian pointed out the two !\Ianasa. the name comes from at gPtting as many of the kids as primary functions of the student tlw Sanskrit word for mind. runs possiblt• to live lives out in the \'oluntt•<•rs. "The most important several mental health-related <'ommunity. The idea is to de­thin11. is that t>ach of them is a projPl'ls. The largest is the one at emphasizl' large institutional set­frit•nd. a huddy, to some pone NISH which is directed by a three-upo,; and !llO\'e toward very small individual child. This gives the kid man ('Oilllnittee acting as a liaison family-like settings in the com­

NISH's next door ' God's gift to the other." 
GRAND OPENING! SPECIAL 
Beer Prices You Won't Believe 
& GODD PIZZA TOO! 
THE BACK DOOR 
(BEHIND THE CAPRI LIQUOR STORE) 

SEPTEMBER & 
OCTOBER SPECIAL now at the 
HOUSE OF TURQUOISE 
LIQlliD SILVER & TURQUOISJo~ CHOKERS NORMALLY $19.95 •• NOW $10.00 
(WITH ThiS COUPON) • 
MICIIIAJ\IA'S LARGEST STOCK OF INDIAN 
.JE\\'EI.R\' 

--CllSTOM SILVERSMITHING --REPAIRS TO INDIAN JEWELRY --GIFT CERTIFICATES FOR THAT BIRTHDAY OR CHRISTMAS GIFT 
--LA\' A\\' A\' 

--MASTER CHARGE + + BANK AMERICARD 
THE HOUSE OF TURQUOISE 
som<· positive personal contact one hetwt•t•n the Notre Dame volun-munity." 
a mw-to-<me basis which is often ll't-rs and the hospita1 ad-1\ rt-cent t·uling in the Indiana diffil'Uit to provide in an in­stitutional setting. 
r----------lllfiii'.---------..·----~-~-io......ii 
"S<•condly, the volunteer can do I things with the child that the staff I dot>sn 't havt• I iml' to do--for in­I
! ND TAE KWON DO
stanct• working with the child on ~pl'cifie skills like walking or I nnitating sounds." I 
' THE BEST CLUB II 
SIR RICHARD'S I 

HAIR STYLING I INSTRUCTORS; DONG SIK KIM (6TH DAN IN TAE KWON DO, I 
4TH DAN IN HAPKIDO) I
129 DIXIEWAY I 
I
CHARLES BOHN 2ND DAN 
I
SOUTH I DANIEL TOLSON 2ND DAN 
I
U.S. 31 North 1 
I
Thai's why we make people betler!
SUITE B l,...u....lo!.~~~:'?¥-1-~~-I 
I
(Across From II NATIONAL & YOU CAN BE A BLACKBELT BEFORE IRandall's Inn) YOU GRADUATE· IMPROVE YOUR 
I
'SIR' RICHARD I INTERNATIONAL NONE ATTENTION STUDYING. WE CAN HELP. I
I INSTRUCTOR 
COD DENS 1Orienl~l-~~~r~~~~~ ~~~~O~~:~~•.al CALL N. OW. 283-8774, 287-618911 
-STYL/ST-1 1 
277-0734 1-Come See Us Tontght -La Fortune Wed. Fn. -ACC Wrestling Gym I 
_c_L_o_s_E_o_M_o__N_D~A~v_s~!f~!-~~~J~~~~tl~Jj~J.t~~!-M!~~~!.f!~ti2.~~!J~-~~~~~lt~ll~J 
every 20 sec:ands
...: ~The ObServer 
~ ~ an independent student newspaper 
Founded November 3,. 1966 

What's It 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whel•n Advertising Manager 
EDrTORIAL BOARP AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor Ken Girouard, News Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, S_ports Editor; Tom O'Neil, Features Editor Chris Smith, Photo Editor 
Editori•lo: 281~1 Newo: 28::,:1~1.;_71~5-...__ __;B:;,:u~•i;.;.;ne;.;:":;..',::28;.:.)..;..7.:.:47..;.1______---1 
Tuesday, September 16, 1975 

Activities Night 
Last night was of course the night of the Dame and Sl. Mary's a community in­season's first football game and stead of a mob. everybody at Notre Dame was of course Notre Dame is more than 'brarying on locked to their tv sets. weeknights, drinking on weekends, 
Last night was also another night the cheering on football Saturdays and Observer had to be produced and we did carping about the administration every manage to put out a paper for your meal­day. These are all part of Notre Dame time enjoyment, working late into the but what we will most remember about morning to do so. But the evening was Notre Dame will be the people we meet hardly one of dedicated drudgery. We too here and the things we have done and were firmly attached to a tv set and not learned and felt with them. much work--let alone drudgery--got done Tonight is Activities Night, the last while we watched the team's first night of Freshmen Orientation. Student showing. After the game the evening's government and CILA, debate and the efforts were highlighted by three pan Hunger Coalition, the sports and the pizzas and a staffer who mourned the media and all the rest of those death of the beatnik movement in organizations that are so much a part of Homeric epithets. the life and memories of this place would 
Other clubs and organizations may not be glad to see you in LaFortune. go in for post-football pizzas or Homeric Tonight you may have work piled up in epithets or even journalism, but they do drifts and more pouring in and a friendly have. a good lime and serve the cqm­invitation to Nickie's or a panty raid but munily too. Groups like the World try to make lime for a trip to LaFortune Hunger Coalition, CILA and Neigh­and look over those organizations. borhood· Study Help have made major They will be wailing for you, be you contributions both to Notre Dame and the freshmen or not. Certainly we at the wider community. Student government, Observer will be waiting for you, though debate, the sports clubs and others we may not be able to offer everyone combine enjoyment, learning and ser­pizza and Homer. vice. They all contribute to the lies Tonight a good part of Notre Dame will between people here that make Notre be wailing for you. 
~inr:~alanq junk 
America the Beautiful 
jae rjill 
"Kathy, I'm lost," I said, though Picture the man; middle-aged, faintly sloping, yet strong and I knew she was sleeping. bald, father of three. One son's in firm. The lines on his forehead, "I'm empty and aching and I college, the other -well -the "worry lines" I guess, tell of a man don't know why." family's really not quite sure much older than his age reveals. Counting the cars on the New where he is, and the daughter's He is slightly overweight; his face Jersey Turnpike. still in high school. He has lived, as is somewhat stubby. The eyes are They've all come to look for Scripture says, a good life. a deep brown, and as you speak America. Paul Simon You can tell. The shoulders are with Jack, they gaze intently into 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
All About? 
-

Jae c:arpara 
The question of abortion is an extremely controversial one. This past year at duLac the Notre Dame-st. Mary's L.I.F.E. group was active planning campus ·Masses and dorm presentations amongother activities. The ultimate goal of all pro-life people and pro-life groups is a constitutional amendment which would protect all human life from conception til natural death. But an equally im­portant goal is the sensitization of the people through education. I· firmly believe that if people knew the facts about abortion, no one would ever have an abortion. I wish to sincerely thank The Ob­server for allowing me this column bi-weekly to write on such issues as abortion, contraception, family planning, euthanasia. 
Because we all want to protect and respect human life, we must know when life begins. This is the crux of the abortion controversy. Does abortion take the life of another human being?, Upon its an­swer all else depends. 
The most distinguished scientific meeting of the last decade that considered this question in depth was the First International Conference on Abortion, held in Washington, D.C., in October, 1967. It brought together authorities from around the world in the fields of medicine, law, ethics, and the social sciences. They met together in a "think tank" for several days. The first major question con­sidered by the medical group was, "When does human life begin?" 
The medical group was composed of bio-chemists, professors of obstretics and gynecology, genetricists, etc., and was representedproportionately as to academic discipline, race and religion (e.g. 20 per cent were Catholic). Their almost unanimous conclusion (19-1) was as follows: 
"The majority of our group could find no point in time between the union of sperm and egg, or at least the blastocyst stage, and the birth of the infant at which point we could say that this was not a human life. The changes occurring between implantation, a six­weeks embryo, a six months fetus, a one-week old child, or, a mature adult are merely stages of development and maturation." 
The September, 1970 issue of California Medicine (official journal of the California Medical Association) said it's a "scientific fact" that "human life begins at conception and is continuous, whether intra -or extra-uterine, until death." 
In its special issue, "the Drama of Life Before Birth", LIFE magazine states, "The birth of a human really occurs at the moment the mother's egg cell is fertilized by one of the father's sperm cells," that is, at conception. 
At conception, a genetically unique individual begins life. All of the characteristics he or she will have as an adult are already determined--including eye color, skin pigmentation, sex and in­telligence potential. All this new human life needs is nourishment and a chance to continue growing. 
None ofus doubt that we were the same persons before and after our births, much less that we were alive. And it is obvious that we were human--we had human parents! Fish beget fish, dogs beget dogs, and human beings beget human beings ... 
But there are those who say that the scientific facts don't matter ­
. -that the new life in the womb doesn't have to be respected. They say that deliberately taking an unborri baby's life merely ter­minates the growth of uterine or fetal tissue. This is the tissue theory of pregnancy which describes the result of sexual in­tercourse as something very similar to a cancerous tumor, that is, a threatening tissue which will not stop growing until it is removed by surgery. If this is so, then sex is highly carcinogenic, and women are very susceptible to sex-induced tumors. This contributes nothing to the dignity of sex, nor to the dignity of women. 
At conception, once life begins it moves along in an inexorable 
path to be what it was created to be. It is life once that sperm and ovum are quickened and that life moves inexorably towards being a human being. No one has rights over this life except God. 
In the U.S. today an unborn child is deprived of his-her right to life every 20 seconds. Surely a country as great as ours can find a more constructive solution to a problem than death. Abortion is a cop out and is nothing more than an expedient solution to a problem. Abortion always claims two people --the unborn child immediately and the mother eventually. 
No woman really wants to have an abortion. Women are forced into it because our society still scorns the unwed mother and i::; not ready to respond with compassion to the distressed pregnant woman. It is imperative that we work towards creating a society in which material pursuits are not the end of our lives; where no child is hungry or' neglected; where defective children are valuable because they call us to love and serve without reward. Instead of destroying life, we should work to destroy the conditions that make life intolerable. Then every child, regardless of its capabilities or the circumstances of his or her birth, could be welcomed, loved and cared for. 
A nation's level of culture and civilization is measured by what it does for its most weak and dependent members. Wake ·up America!! The unborn are dying. 
Jimmy Hoffa's body has not been found. Last week, my brother's bike was stolen. Please the observer don't walk the streets at night; it's not safe. 
Night Editor --Maggie Waltman••• Assistant Night Editor --Maureen
Picture a younger man, father of 
Flynn

a four-month-old son, another child 
Layout Staff --Jim Stevens,
on the way. He comes home at 
Martha Fanning, AI Rutherford
night, at 10:00, and his wife em­
Day Editor --Jim Eder
braces him. His face is still 
Copy Reader --Kathy Mills
smooth, his hair thick and full. A 
Editorials --John Amantea
youthful look, a freshness. Tom is 
Features --Tom O'Neil 
weary, weary of working two jobs 
Sports--Tom Kruczesk, Bob Brink
after four years of college, weary 
of hassles and arguments and 
Typists --Teri Harlan, Nell VIII,
struggles. Weary of life. In his 
Camille Arrieh, Mary Tobin, 
years of learning, Tom thought 
Kathy Hinks

that one day his education would 
Compugraphic --Morey Blinder
solve the problem. So far he hasn't 
Picture Screener --Chris Smith 
even paid back the loans. · 
Ad Layout --Tom Whelan, Joe
And so he struggles. 
Grait, Anne Peeler Night Controler --Dave Rust
We've all come to look for 
Happy Birthday, 0 Mighty One!
America ... 

/IJIAT'S 60/NGON? TP.E/rfENIJOUSHEY, I UNlJti?STANO /OIOR, JIJST OiJJMIIN, fT?OM YAIAJV 7R£M&NOOtiS! /1/HAT'S )f)(J'/lPHeAPING I'M IN~ IIIIPI'fN/'16? UP A SPiiCIA/.... OFAN El.fTE I OIER TASK FOI?C£! CIRPS OF '\ f?AYIN6/P/0751 I 
NOfJI, ~ 
KNOWHfJAJ I Feel. ABOUT 
SICklE-S.. I 

yours. The eyes reflect knowledge: not the type that comes from reading about soldiers, but that which comes from being one. The eyes, though, are tired, weary, and often strained. You see, Jack never finished high school, and though he needed glasses, he never thought it was necessary. 
The man sighs deeply, a sigh which comes from the very depths of his heart and being. After 32 years of working, they want to replace him with a younger man. "Young men" they said. "Fresh thinking, fresh ideas." He sighed again ... 
... 
.. 

Recent statistics state that 33 crimes are committed every hour, and that one out of every 10,000 people are murdered in the United States each year. 
Picture the woman, mother of 
· five, grandmother of nine. Marie has grayish-white hair now, having made little attempt to disguise or alter the aging process. She is graceful and filled with gentle dignity. The many lines in her face are often crinkled in a smile, a true appreciation of a long, arduous life. She has earned "that smile. 
Now, though, her pillow is wet with tears. The children have decided to send her away. You see, Marie is 70 now, and the children, her children, have decided that it is in her best interests. "We'll come visit you, mother." "Don't worry." 
Tuesday, September 16, 1975 the observer 5 .. 
art gallery features faculty works 
The annual Faculty Show, in progress now Geoffrion's giant hanging sculpture, a at the O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery, is among tentacled affair in red and black vinyl the most important on the Gallery calendar. suspended from the ceiling in the gallery 
There are those who would be surprised by center. Geoffrion's medium, the soft this statement. But the work of the Art sculpture, is one of the more recent Department Faculty represents a most developments in sculptural technique, and immediate connection with the University one of the most promising. Her use of it community at large. This is art that is being hinges on undulating forms, and textural produced on the Campus itself; these are concerns connected closely with the human the artists who are guiding and influencing body and sexual imagery. the art students working here today. 
In that light, this year's Faculty show Perhaps the most prevalent direction in presents an even more immediate picture Art in the seventies is being established than most, since, for the first time, it has through photography--either the photos been limited strictly to the most recent themselves, or the photorealism they have output of the faculty members. The show inspired. Richard Stevens worked both in 
covers a wide range of disciplines ranging black and white and color, and covers a from softsculpturesto ceramics and even to wide range of discipline and form. Most plexiglass constructions. In a sense, interesting is his series of black and white however, there is more of a unity about it all prints exploring a number of highly con­than a disunity-in.a1most every field, the trasting and 'abstract' configurations.experimental is emphasized. Robert Leader's work, by now familiar 
A good case in point is the work of Don around campus, continues in the vein of Vogl, ranged along the back and one side color experimentation. His most recent wall of the Gallery. Vogl has continued his paintings combine realistic and abstract rather unique exploration of form and details, all concerned with the issue of color, material, including an abstract painting on and color interraction. They hang im­a car hood, done in metallic shades of color. mediately inside the gallery door, and His work moves from this point to a semi­evidence most strongly Leader's control of realistic painting of an automobile, to a free­blues and reds, subjugated to a variety of standing assembly of an old suitcase and mechanical, man-imposed forms. broken bits of green glass and mirror. Another important area in the show is the 
Without question, the most noticeable sculpture submitted both by Father An­piece in the entire exhibition is Moira thony J. Lauck, C.S.C., 
and Father James 
lynch mob by proxy 
fr. bill toohey 
Saying "I hope we'll see some elec­the basest passions of their con­
trocutions in this state," Gov. George stituencies . " 
Wallace signed into law last Tuesday a bill It might just be that if we ourselves were 
restoring the death penalty in Alabama. "I more in touch with the God who forgives, we 
hope this bill is upheld because there are would be struck with the tragedy of our not 
some bad folks. black and white, that ought forgiving others -all those others who offend 
to be electrocuted in this state," Wallace us. At times, it becomes hard for us to 
said at a press conference. forgive a God who forgives others; The only surprise in all of this is that especially those who, according to our 
anybody should be surprised <only standards, are so unworthy of it. It's the 
square Christians need be shocked. story of the elder son <in the parable of the 
Afterall, Wallace only articulates what Prodigal> all over again. 
hordes of Americans believe: "An eye for Robert Capon has insightful in­
an an eye." These folks are unmoved by the terpretation of the elder son passage: saying, "He who seeks revenge kee.ps his "When the elder son shows up with his 
own wounds fresh"; or the lt!achmg of bookful of self-righteous green stamps and 
Leviticus, "You shall not seek vengeance, complains that his father never gave him 
nor bear any grudge against the sons of your any premiums, the father, with a touch of 
impatience, explains he doesn't acceptown people"; or the words of Jesus in his trading stamps. "Look. He's my son;Sermon on the Mount. 
you're my son. Neither of you has to earn 
Many of these people will proclaim that any of this stuff; you both already own 
capital punishment would help prevent everything I've got. So what the hell are you 
certain heinous crimes (a claim for which standing out here complaining for? Wipe 
there is no conclusive evidence); but, since that look off your face and go on in and fix 
we as a people find it generally so hard to yourself a drink." 
forgive, one may be permitted to hold a I'm reminded of a scene in one of Jean 
certain suspicion that they support capital Anouilh's plays. It's the Last Judgment. 
punishment for another reason as well: The good are clustered at the gate, eager 
retribution and societal revenge. to move into the reserved seats; they are 
In the Senate debate over the death-keyed up and bursting with enthusiasm. 
penalty bill, Senator Harold Hughes decided Then the rumor starts: "He's going to 
to test the sincerity of his colleagues. He forgive all those others, too. '1Dumbfounded 
introduced an amendment that would have and filled with disbelief, they begin to gasp 
made possible public viewing of all state and sputter: "After all the trouble I went 
executions -at the execution site and voer through"; "If only I'd known"; "I can't get 
TV. Afterall, he reasoned, if the rationale over it." Exasperated and filled with fury,, 
for capital punishment is to deter others they begin to curse God. At that moment, 
from committing those crimes, then it they are damned. That was the final 
follows that the widest possible audience judgment. They judged themselves; they 
ought to witness the horror of the punish-excommunicated themselves. Love ap­
ment. peared (forgiving, as is his nature) and they 
Predictably, the Senate, duly shaken by refused to go along. "We don't know this1 
this "repulsive" amendment, rejected it, man ... we don't approve of a heaven that's 
and sanctimoniously approved the bill. As open to every Tom, Dick and Harry!" 
1 
William Raspberry mentioned in his syn-The whole question of forgiving others is 
dicated column, it became apparent that terribly close to home for all of us. We take 
those who would impose a death penalty on quite a risk every time we say the Our 
"abominable offenders " are very unwilling Father. We say, "Forgive us as we forgive 
to carry out the senten~e themselves. They those who trespass against us." This means 
prefer to leave the dirty work to the state: that we ask not to be forgiven ourselves· 
"The state, by speaking solemn legalisms unless we forgive others. 1 
and conducting stony-faced rituals, tran-The fact that this is so hard • bei~ 
sforms mere killing into execution, which ~orgiving i.nstead of vengeful -coul~ put.~ 
sounds much less offensive." m touch w1th the fact that we need h1s spm 
But a lynch mob by proxy is still a lynch if we are ever to come to believe he forgiv 
mob! The eloquence and moral power of us; if we want to be able to forgive ourselv 
Senator Hughes' arguments could hardly and those around us. It helps!toknow th~ 
have failed to impress the other Senators. we may .not be loveable, but that he sb 
In other words, they knew better. But the loves us. He alone knows us as we are in-· 
bill's easy passage was probably ~st ex-sside; and he alone 'Yi.lllove us even though 
plained by New York Times colummst Tom we lose all our quahbes ... because he loves 
Wicker who termed the vote "another not our qualities, but us. He will gladly put 
'exampie of su ine ~liticians pandering to up with forever. 

Flanagan, C.S.C. Father Lauck is the artist Department FacultyI and hence several who executed the large sculpture of the new directions evident in the Faculty Show. Virgin now standipg at the main circle as an Fred Beckman's work runs in two widely introduction to the campus. The develop­divergent tracks-his painting is an abstract ment from that piece to those in the show is handling of questions of depth, design and clear. More and more,.his work displays a color. But also among the more uniques religious s¢rit subjected to a characteristic facets of the show are his works of formed rectangular and geometric treatment. Fr. plexiglass, /pieces combining the artistic Flanagan, head of the Art Department, is and the practical in a fashion new to the best known on campus for his charcoal Notre Dame campus. Carol Ann Carter has drawings, a few of which are in the show. done the only print-work in the Faculty But he had begun also to work in bronze, still Show, just inside the Gallery door. She centering on the human form and the human works in mild contrasts, between blacks and face, though in an entirely different grays, or related colors, but with sharp lines medium. It is an interesting study, to see and angles, and tightly defined forms. In, the similarities and the differences that fact, she has entitled one of her \pieces~ come though in thses widely varying "Edges", a reflection of this tautness and 
treatments of the same artistic vision. definition. 
Also quite familiar by now on campus is The other new artist, Matthew Zivich, hasthe work of Doug Kinsey. He is the artist contributed two canvases, in which hewho can be seen to react most directly to the works with variations of the photorealismissues current at the university. In addition, currently re-shaping the American Artthe influence of his recent stay in Japan has scene. His work is not directlybegun to show in some of his work. As a photorealistic, but is more deeply concerned result, his paintings reflect both Kinsey's with thel reproduction of recurring images, concern with the issue of world hunger, and with reflection, and mirror-images. In ahis abiding interest in the Orient. His large sense, it is more a comment on canvas is dramatic, but two small 'por­photorealism than in itself photorealistic.
traits 'are perhaps his most forceful pieces in the show. In brief, then, these are the people and the 
Bill\ Kremer's innovative sculptural series pieces that are shaping art on the Notre "Pillars to Society", continues in this show, Dame campus. Their show is open, in the but with a new twist. Kremer has gradually O'Shag. Gallery, from 10-4:45 weekdays, adopted a technique combining wood and and 1:00 to 5:00 weekends, with, of course, canvas to produce a very architectural no admission charge. However one· effect. Also of interest are his ceramic responds to the show, or judges its quality, it pieces, as usual •one of the most popular is nevertheless vital to understanding the segments of the show. They display a intellectual and creative currents in force skilled craftsmanship and handling, on this campus. The show provides one complemented by smooth, careful glaze immediate, accessible key to the overall work. picture of the University of Notre Dame in 
There are several new faces on the Mt 1975. 
kraftwwerk's ''rals ·d fl . '' 
an Orlan by iohn zigmunt 
"When you play electronic music you have "We want the whole world to know our 
the control of the imagination of the people background," Ralf commented once. "We 
in the room, and it can get to an extent cannot deny we are from Germany, because 
where it's almost physicai. .. It would be very the German mentality, which is more ad­
dangerous." Ralf Hutter of Kraftwerk vanced, will always be part of our 
behavior." The lastest offering from the emissaries 
Ask the editor of the rock journal Creem, of the advanced mentality Is called "Half 
Lester Bangs, where rock is going and your and Florian" and is on Verigo RecordS. 
answer would be "It's being taken over by This album actually debuted in Europe in 
the Germans and the machines. And this I 1973 but its just now been released to 
believe to my funky soul." He sees the American audiences (probably because our 
success of the Kraftwerk single ''Autobahn'' mentalities needed time to catch up.) 
as no less than "an indictment of all those I find very little to say about the album 
who1wopld resist the bloodless iron will and itself. It consist of six pieces of electronic 
the ineluctable dawn of the Machine Age." music. Of these, "Crystals" moves nicely in 
a funky harpsicord style and "The Bells of 
Ralf Hutter and Florian Schneider are co­Home" makes some nice1 sounds. Howe• er, 
leaders of Kraftwerk (German for power­"Mountain of Sound" plays like an outt1 ke 
plant) and refer to themselves as "Die of the music for the Claro! Herbalesc. nt 
Mensch Machine (the Human Machine)." Shampoo comericals and of the rest it 
These two young men are full oflinteresting sounds to me like the music of Ray Coni£{ .n 
opinions. Ralf claims "the synth~izer IS the year 2000. It is faintly pleasant ' td. 
very responsive to a person" and it can innocusious , which is more thBr. J. C;an .gy 
reflect what kind of person you are. ("It's for Ralf and Florian. Oh ~·es, yo~ c;•n': 
like an acoustic mirror.") He likes to jam dance to it (Chuck Berry come iiOml: It 
with machines and feels at times the rates one-and-a-half stars because ·~ thin!• 
machine can play you, but warns "not all you can play it at a 1 party as backg Jund 
•machines have this consciousness." Oh rnusic without distracting the gi-l your yea, they don't call it a recording studio. Its trying to impress. At lest you'll im~. i her a "Laboratory." more than Ole music...l hope. 

SPENI·s DISCOUNT PRO SHOP WANTS NAMES FOR ITS CATALOG MAILING. WE'LL P.AY FOR ANY LISTS CONNECTED WITH TENNIS 
FROM ANY PART OF THE UNITED STATES: COUNTRY CLUBS, 
INDOOR TENNIS CLUBS, PARK SYSTEMS, ETC. IF IT'S TENNIS, 
WE WANT IT! 
CONTACT QUR CONTACT OUR CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE, 
\ 

RANDY STEHLIK, FOR ANY QUESTIONS 
NO'S NO. 1 PLAYER. 
PHONE RANDY AT.. 283-8427. 
Speni's Discount Pro Shop is the largest tennis Specialty shop_ in the Midwest! 
Famous lines • Head • Tretorn • Rawlings • Davis that are in 
• Wilson • Ektelon • Adidas • Sai . our large 
• 
Top Seed • Voit • Bata • Jason Empire 

• Fred Perry


• 
lzod • Penn • Spalding


inventory 
• Foot-Joy

• Marcraft • Sphairistike 
HOURS: ION. thru FRI. 9 A.l. to 8 P.l•••• Sat. 9 A.l. to 5 P.M•••• SUN. 9 A.l. to 2 P.M. 
Chp. and Mad. ··--------------------,
I Mail to Speni's Pro Shop • I 321 S. Notre Dame, South bend · I
Coupon For 
I Dear Gene, put me on your mailing list for tennis spe<;ials I 
SPEll'S 
PRO SHOP 
321 South Notre Dame 
South Bend 233-8712 
I Ia.. ----------------------·------------------------------------I 
Bring in this ad and we will oHer an
Mail Order 1 auren ---------------------------------------------------------1 
additional 1 0 percent discount to all
I CiiJ ------.----•• ----------.----.---------.----Zip----.--.------I 
N.D.-St. Mary's students and facul •
Catalog L • -• • • • --• • • • ----• -,••• .1 
Tuesday, Seotember 16, 1975 the observer 
7 
President Ford limits Russian grain sales 
Hy DON KENDALL 
AP Farm Writer 
WASHINGTON <APl Pres­ident Ford denied a personal request Monday from farm or­ganization leaders for an imme­diate resumption of grain sales to the Soviet Union. 
William J. Kuhfuss, president of the American Farm Bureau 1-'ederation, later told a news confer~nce that farmers are losing valuable export markets as a result of the embargo. 
Kuhfuss and other federation officials met 45 minutes with l<'ord to plead for a removal of grain sales restrictions to the Hussians. Ford announced Sept. \1 that the embargo would con­Iinue through mid-October. 
The suspension of sales fol­lowed a meeting between Ford and labor leaders headed by AFL-CIO President George M(•any who had vowed to boy­cott ship lmtdings unless steps were taken to protect American consumers 
l<'ord sent a U.S. team to Moscow in hopes of negotiating a long-term agreement so that grain sales can be spread out and their impact on the U.S. economy lessened. 
In Moscow, Soviet and Amer­ican officials held their third day of talks Monday on the subject. A U.S. spokesman would say only that the negotia­tions "were satisfactory at this preliminary stage." The Ameri­cans were scheduled to leave Moscow on Tuesday. 
Agriculture Secretary Earl L. 
Butz told reporters after the 
White House meeting with farrr 
leaders that Ford does not want 
the U.S. government to have 
complete charge of the sale of 
farm commodities to foreign 
buyers. Sales now are made by 
private firms. 
U.S. firms have sold tbe Rus­sians 9.8 million metric tons of grain in deals announced this vear That is equal to less than 
Obscenity conference opens tomorrow 
"The First Amendment and the !<'ormation of Character in a Hepublic" will be the theme of a keynote address by Dr. Walter Berns. University of Toronto political economist, at the opening session of the Conference on Ob­scenity and Community Stan­dards, tomorrow at 7:30 p.m., in the Center for Continuing l<:ducation. ' 
Commentators at a discussion following the talk will include Dr. Donald Kommers, professor of govNnnwnt and international studies and director of Notre' Danll''s CPnter for Civil Hights, and I>r. Walter Nicgorski, associate professor in the General l'rogram of Liberal Studies. 
Bt•rns will be introduced by Dr. .John Lyon, chairman of the <;(•twra I Program and of the ronf(II'('liCe. 
Spt'aking at 7::!0 p.m., Thursday, on "Indiana's New Obscenity I.aws--1-~nvironmental Protection and Community Standards" will he Hobert Hodes, Notre Dame law professor. Commentators will be Dr Stanley llauerwas, associate professor of theology, and Dr. Michael Crowe. professor in the <;t'neral Program. 
Novelist and professor of philosophy Dr. Hal ph Mcinerny will discuss "Principled Por­nography or l<'reedom 's Revenge" at 7::!0p.m., Friday. John Everitt, executive director of South Bend's Century Center, and Lester Wolfson, chancellor of Indiana University at South Bend, will lead the discussion. 
Speaking at 4 p.m. Saturday will be Dr. Dolores Frese, assistant professor of English. The topic of her talk will be "The Literary l<:xploration of Sexuality." Associate professors in the (;pneral Program. Dr. Stephan Hogers and Dr. Edward Cronin will he commentators. 
The final session at 8 p.m. Saturday will feature talks by Hoger Francis, din•t'lor of the South BPnd Community Schools; and .lamPs Langford, dtrPt'tor of 
llw  University  of  Notre  Dame  
Press.  
Discussants  will  be  Sister  

Madonna Kolbenschlag, assistant professor of American Studies; llr. i{obert Burns. associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and Phillip Sloan, assistant professor in the General Program. 
Sponsors of the conference are Notre Dame's General Program. Civic CPnter Authority of South lknd. and the Indiana Committee for the Humanities. The con­fert'nce is open to the public free of chargt'. 
ROD STEWART & FACE.S 
with the J. Geils Band 
IN CONCERT SATURDAY OCTOBER 4th at 7:30pm at ACC 
TICKET PRICES $7.50 & $6.50 
Tickets Now on Sale 
at 
ACC & STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 
By Student Union & Pacific Presentations 
5 per cent of anticipated 1975 cussions with the labor unions production and does not threat-which led to the current round en U.S. supplies. of trade talks with Russia. 
Grain prices already have "I am l'ertain that most risen, however, because of un-tarmers feel that they are certainty about the exact size being used as political and dip-of the deals, controversy over lomatic pawns by the maritime negotiations being carried on with the Soviet Union," Kuh­fuss said. 
The federation, Kuhfuss said opposes what he views as ~ -trend toward state trading of farm commodities on a 
the transactions and concern unions, the AFL-CIO, and the . governnwnt -to _ government over what happened in ~972 U.S. State Department, in the basis 
when secret grain sales to the ------------------.
Soviets depleted U.S. stock-1 piles. . PEACH TREE I At his news conference, Kuh-.· • DINING ROOM • I 
fuss said Meany and the mari­
time union leaders' complaints. RANDALL' 1 about the Russian grain sales ar~ "~ot conc~rn for foodI W E D N E 5 D A Y N I G H T 5 P E C I A L I 
pnces ~n the Umted States butl · I 
~~~~~n~~s::~a~:sreed~~em aart~t;t.mr!e~~s~un~b~ F R I ( D cHIcK( N I
MASHED POTATOES-SALAD-HOT BISCUITS sidies to ?.e paid by American~ I taxpayers. ALL YOU CAN EAT WITH THIS COUPON $.05 I 
. . $2 70 
FOH FIRST BEER< WITH 
. Kuhfuss satd tl was a grossI DINNEP l I msult for farmers to have been • left out of White House dis---------------------­
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Need 5 tickets for Northwestern game. Call Mike after 6 pm. 288­0088. 
Need 2 Purdue "fix's. Call Mike 8106. 
Need 2 Purdue tix. Call late. 1541. 
Nl'ed 2 tix's to Purdue_ Call 7471. 
Wanted: 2 GA MSU tickets. Call 277·0014. 
Dl•sperately need as many as 50 tix's for S.Calif (no joke!). Call Mary 4093. 
·-----------­
N<>ed two GA tickets to MSU game. Call Gary 1802. 
NPed 2 Southern Cal tix. Call Bob 3665. 
NPed 7 Northwestern G.A_ tickets!! Will pay top dollar. :z88, 5207. 
NPed 2 GA lix MSU or Georgia TPch. Call Bob 1214. 
NPed ride to Madison and back w<>ekend of Sept. 19. Call 4672. 
NPed 2 Michigan State tickets. Call Mike 1438. 
Roommate wanted for N.D. apartments. Call 288-6533. 
Wanted: Part:lime driver with some experience in maintenance of cars. Good pay, flexible hours. • Call 7417 or come to Student Govt. office. 
Wanted: 2 fix's to N.Western and 2 ti>s.:s for Purdue. Will take 3 riders to Purdue. Mrs. Hegner 288-2754. 
Badly need 2 G.A. Northwestern tix. Call Don 3374. 
Please_ Very badly eed Michigan State tickets. Call 'nee 8933. 
NPed two Purdue fix's. Call 6974. 
Wanted: 4 tix for Northwestern. Premium price. Call Tim 8251. 
Need 2 G.A. tix for Northwestern. Call Pat 1654. 
Need tickets: 4 USC; 1 Nor. thwestern; 1 or more Purdue. Please call Patty 6429. 
\ 

Badly need 2 G.A. tix for Nor. thwestern and Mich. St, Call Mark 8651. 
Michigan State tix needed. 2 or more GA. Will pays. Charlie 8698. 
Need ride to Columbus Ohio and back weekend of Sept. 19. Chris 4343. 
Need GA tix to Purdue and Pitt games. Call 3155. 
Need 5 tickets for Northwestern game. Call Mike after 6 p.m. 288­0088. 
NPed tickets desperately for Purdue and Michigan State gam<'s. Will pay good price. Call 3650. 
WANTED: PURDUE TIX. Call Val 6661. 
DESPERATELY NEEDED: 2 
G.A. tickets for Northwestern. Will discuss price. Call Lisa at 8089_ 
NPeded: 2 tickets to any home gaml'. Call: 1038. 
Need riders to Milwaukee. Leave Friday at noon. Return Sunday. Call 3388; 1715. 
FOR SALE 

Lloyd's stereo; with BSR turn­table. Receiver and turntable in • one unit. 259-8133 after 5 p.m. 
Polaroid 340 camera with flash $50. Hewlett Packard 45 calculator with leather and travel saf~ty cases $250. Inquire 203 Fisher. Phone 1945. 
Men's lO.speed, made in France. Call 3019. Must sell. 
YAMAHA 1972 -125cc, 800 actual m i I eage. IncI udes 2 heImets. $595 or best offer_ 233-6727. 
Stereo console (contemporary model) AM, FM radio. In good condition. $135.00 or best offer. Call 272-5645 after 3:00. 
Couches, etc. Free delivery to campus. Call Mrs. Cooper after 6 pm or all day Sat. & Sun. 272-3004: 
NOTICES 

Need work? Good pay. Call 277­1221 Tom. 
Accurate fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. 
Quirk loans I Morrissey Loan Funl1. Up to s150. 30 days 1 percent interest. Basement of LaFortune. M ·I= 11:15-12:15. 
"But you've got to have friends". Information write Gay Students of Notre Di' ne, P.O. Box 206, Notre Dame, 1, -· 4655,. 
Will de 1yplng term oapers. manuscr ~ ts, themes, etc. Cell 233­8512. . 
FvR RENT 
, 

Furnisth<.l apartment. 503 W. Jpfferson. Dup " 3 rooms floor gas heat. furni Pd. 289-6307, 23-4­0596. 
4 bl'droom; kitchen. living room; dining rocm. basement; all rooms and kitchen furnished; 1 bathroom, shower in basement; washer; dryer; and dE'l'P treezl'r; Pquippl'd with security system; walking distance from NolrP Dame. You may call after 4 p.m. Phone 232-7180. 
Garage for rent by the month. Call 287-571& after 6 p.m. 
Whole upstairs fL $50 month. Girls only. 283-7579, 233-1329. 
LOST & FOUND 

Lost: Pair square brown glasses between Grace & library. Paul 1004. 
Electric typewriter in black carrying case misplaced in Summer Storage. Reward. Paul 1384. 
PERSONALS 

Terry Happy 21st Birthday from all of your "devoted" staff. 
DPar Terry. 
Happy 21st Birthday, 
Love, 

Mom, Dad, Jack, JeanMarie, Joan, Kathy 
Interested in becoming a Catholic? Discussion group being formed. Call Campus Ministry (6536) or drop in the office. 
PRE-LAW and PRE-MED students, send for booklets of all medical or all law schools con­taining average, minimum and recommended GPA, LSAT and MCAT scores for 1976-77 ad· mittance. Send S2.00 to Pre. professional Advisory, Box 13172, Gainesville, Florida 3260~. 
.. 
f 
the observer Tuesday, September 16, 1975
8 
• Second half rally sparks Notre Dame victory 
by Bill Brink Sports Editor 
FOXOBORO, Mass. --They've been saying all along that all the Irish need is a little time and a little experience. 
In the case of Notre Dame's 17-3 
ictory over Boston College last n ~ht it took nearly three quarters ot 1eck-and-neck football until they fir. lly broke through for two toue.,downs within three minutes to leave the Eagles behind. ' 
"We just tried to keep our cool and find a way to execute a little better," said coach Dan Devine after his debut as head coach for the Irish. "We wanted to keep our patience and our poise. We played a good football team tonight." 
"I knew our offense was young," added ND quarterback Rick Slager. "and I knew all we needed was a little time to coordinate." 
For the record 61,501 people that jammed Schaefer Stadium, it seemd like an intense eternity. Both teams seemed tense in the 
... first half, streaking, then stalling, anll failing to · put together a sustained drive. The game stayed pretty much on the ;round at the beginning. The Eagles alternated pithcouts with power up the middle, using fullback Keith Barnette and halfback Earl Strong. Notre Dame relied mainly on the straight ahgead running of freshman fullback Jim Browner. But neither squad-could retain their momentum and they exchanged punts three times in the first quaryer. Boston College managed to drive to the Irish 22-yard line e'irly in the second quarter with the help of an Eagle fumble that ended up a 20­yard gain and some fine play by quarterback Mike Kruczek. It was then that the heavily-lauded Notre 
Ernie Torriero 
Dame defense faced, and passed, its first tough test as B.C. was halted on a fourth-and-three at­tempt. 
The Irish began to show a little of their own offense, most noticeably a 41-yard gallop by Mark McLane that put them at first and goal on the Eagle nine-yard line. McLane took a pitch-out to the five, but Slager was then thrown for a six­yard loss attempting to pass. A delay of game penalty put ND at the 16 with goal to go and after a screen to McLane gained three yards, the Irish settled for a 30­yard Dave Reeve field goal and a 3­0 lead with 8:08 left in the half.. 
Again the teams exchanged punts before the Eagles put together a 42-yard drive, the big play being a Kruczek-to-Pete Laboy pass that went for 26 yards to the Notre Dame 44. Boston College moved to the Irish 28 where they tied the score on a 45­yard field goal by Fred Steinfort with 11 seconds remaining in the half. 
The teams were nearly equal in 
total yards at intermission with 133 
for Notre Dame and 130 for Boston 
College. The Irish outgained the 
Eagles on the ground 130-90, but 
completed only one pass for three 
yards as compared to the Eagles' 
41 yards net passing. 

"The main thing we wanted to do 
was execute better," said Devine 
of his halftime strategy. 

Executing better meant opening 
up a passing game against a 
defense that had been geared to the 
run for 30 minutes. 

"We had been primarily run­
ning," said tight end Ken MacAfee. 
"So we figured we had to open up 
somehow. But if you want to 
establish a passing game, you have­
to establish a running game first." 
It looked like no change at all for 
the first eight or nine minutes of 
the third quarter, but the game turned around in a split second. When Jerome Heavens' fumble was recovered by Boston College's Kelly Elias at the Notre Dame 37 it looked like the break that everyone had been waiting for. But two plays later Ross Browner recovered a Keith Barnette fumble at the 35, and after that it was all Irish. 

Slager blended the running of Jim Browner with passes to Hunter, Burgmeier, and finally a 12-yarder to Browner at the 9. After the freshman fullback lost 1, he darted through the. middle for the score with 1:48 left in the third quarter. Reeve's extra point made it 10-3. 
The Irish defense retained the momentum on the Eagle's next set of downs. Boston College moved to their own 33 where Kruczek released a pass toward end Bill Paulsen. It was tipped by two Irish defenders into the hands of safety Randy Harrison who advanced it seven yards to the B.C. 42-yard line. 
"I kept waiting a couple of weeks for them to make a· mistake, and they didn't," said Deveine. "It took a long time." 
Still hot and more confident, Slager hit tight end MacAfee for a 12-yard gain to the 26. After Browner rammed to the 24, halfback AI Hunter took a pithcout fropm Slager around right end. Using two excellent blocks from Browner and Terry Eurick, and breaking a few tqackles on his own, Hunter scampered into the end zone. Reeve added the extra point to make it 17-3 with 14:10 left in the game. 
Notre Dame's two quick scores came about as a result of two factors. The Irish's constant pounding on the ground had begun to wear down the Eagles, and it also set them up for Notre Dame's aerial attack, hidden (or 'lion­existent> until the third quarter. 
"We were passing in the second half because we were getting good field position and they started to play the running game," explained Devine. "We had to find a couple of leaks." 
"We opened up a little more, and called some audibles," added Slager. "It gave me a little more freedom and I started feeling more confident." 
Slager led the Irish downfield again later in the final quarter, but a Terry Eurick fumble on Boston College's 13 halted the drive. Forced to catch-up football, and feeling somewhat demoralized, the Eagles could not pose a threat. 
"Their defense kept the offense in shape," said Eagle coach Joe Yukica. "Their offense is a power game. Make a mistake and they will break you. It is a good, patient offense." 
For the night, Slager was 7 of 12 
for 72 yards, while Jim Browner 
led the Irish runners with 95 yards 
in 24 carries. Mark McLane 
notched 63 yards in seven carries 
while AI Hunter ran the ball five 
times for 47 yards. 
The leading rusher in the game was B.C.'s Glen Caprio! a, who netted 107 yards in 15 carries, earning him the offensive player of the game award. Capriola did not start, but came_ on in the second and third quarters to spearhead the Eagles. Quarterback Kruczek hit on 9 of 13 passes, but totaled only 50 yards. 
Defensively, the Irish bent but 
did not give. The Eagles' multiple 
offense succeeded in keeping the 
Irish guessing for a while, but 
could not penetrate it completely. 
Steady play by lineman Steve 
Niehaus <eight tackelsl and Ross 
Browner <seven tackles) plus good 
lateral movement by linebackers 
Doug Becker and Jim Stock denied 
the Eagles entrance into the end 
zone. Browner was named 
defensive player of the game. 
"Early in the game we kept 
them off balance," said Yukica. . "We stayed in the game as long as we were able to do that. Once they started reacting, we were in 
trouble." 

NO's only major injury occurred 
in the first quarter when defensive 
end Willie Fry rebroke his nose. 
Fry started the third quarter and 
played most of the second half in 
pain. 

For Devine, it was relief after 
a couple of tense weeks leading up 
to the game. 

"I'm glad to get by this one," he 
said. "That's a tough defense to 
move. I was very excited and very 
thrilled. I'm proud of our effort. 
We're going to enjoy it for about 
fhe minutes and then start work 
again." 

He has a 4-day work week with Purdue coming up on Saturday, but he's over the big one now. 
::========:===:====:==:=:=:=:=====:=:=:=:::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:::===:=:=:::::::=:::::=:=:=:::::=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:: 
Extra Points 

In keeping with the bicentennial image, the 1975 edition of Boston College football was labeled as the "football revolution." But unlike the upsurging colonists in 1776, the Boston College Eagles proved no match for their opponents. Indeed, if the American revolution was as successful as the "football revolution," Boston would still be paying a tax for ·its tea. 
The revolution promptly ended with 5:08left in the third quarter, as Ross Browner pounced on a Keith Barnette fumble. It was the play of the ball game. The momentum had shifted to the side of the Irish, a tide that was to drive defeat into the hearts of the soaring Eagles. 
"We made some adjustments at half time," said Browner, modestly explaining how he happened to pick up the loose ball. "We were coming hard all game. The more endurance paid off." ­
The play by Browner had mysterious effects on the outcome of the contest. It seemed as if a spirit had come into Schafer Stadium, and the feeling took hold of all the Irish. Something was going to happen. One could feel it on the Notre Dame sidelines. 
Jeff Weston, the sophomore defensive tackle, echoed the same sen­timents. "The minute that Ross jumped on that ball, we knew that things were going to turn. We had the confidence." 
The play was the catalyst for what was up until that time a sputtering Notre Dame offense. Rick Slager, starting his first game at the helm of the Irish, directed the Notre Dame drive, an eight-play march into the end zone. The key man in the drive was freshman fullback Jim Browner, as he took a Slager pass for 12 yards on one play and hulled into the end zone from ten yards out for the score. 
The younger Browner was not at all befuddled by the sudden turn of events. "Sometimes the holes were there and other times you just had to put your head down and push," Browner said of his rushing which netted him 95 yards on 24 rushing attempts. 
Momentum is not a difficult thing to sustain if a team possess~s a runner of the caliber of AI Hunter. With hardly 50 seconds gone into the final quarter, Hunter took a. pitchout and went around the right side shedding his opponents to prance into the end zone for a 24-yard score. The "football revolution" was now smoldering in ruins. 
It could also be that the spirit in Hunter was mmoved by the prophet on crutches in the form of former Irish fullback Wayne Bullock. Bullock, recuperating from knee surgery, warned his audience only minutes before the Hunter explosion. "Watch Hunter," Bullock said with a gleam in his eye. "We all know what he can do." 
"I was itching to get into that game," laughed Hunter later on. "This type of run <the 24-yard touchdown) gives me more confidence as a runner. I'm now trying to blend in my speed with a power attaclt." 
One might be able to say of this football game, that it was the defense that moved the offense. The Notre Dame front four was coming hard all night long. But early in the game they were getting fooled by the Boston College misdirection. 
"They were psyched," said line coach Joe Yonto. "We just over­reacted a lot of times. It's something can be worked out." 
Whatever it was that moved the Irish on to victory, it was certainly a sweet vic·~ory for Dan Devine. "I'm going to enjoy this one for about five minutes. It will be hard to play again on Saturday after playing tonight." 
Nevertheless, someone should warn the Purdue Boilermakers about a thing called divine inspiration. 
HAWAIIAN N:JGHT TUESDAY $3.45 

BOAR'S HEAD® 
Boar's Head brings the Islands to you. At less than Island prices! Delicious Hawaiian chicken dinner is only $3.45 per person plus tax. Includes Tropical fruit salad, wild rice, and sweet and sour sauce. Also: Boar's Head Salad Bar, hot bread, ice cream or sherbet, and coffee, tea, or milk. All for only $3.45 We're doing the whole place Hawaiian on Tuesday. Aloha. 
RESTAURANTS 
52885 U.S. 31 North in South Bend 




