university of notre dame st. mary's college 

To legally serve alcohol on campus 
Faccenda bill faces House 
DR. JAMES DANEHYwas nominated to the Advanced Student Affairs Committee at the Faculty Senate meeting. 
Evaluation, promotion procedures discussed 
by Marjorie Irr Staff Reporter 

The Facultv St>nate discussed last night the provost evaluation which is to be distributed to full-time faculty members on April 16. Action concerning the implementation of the present draft of the proposed Faculty Service Re~ort a_nd amendmen~ to procedures of appointments -and promotions m the Academic Manual were also discussed. 
The Senate passed a motion to limit participation in the evaluation of the provost to full-time, permanent faculty members. According to the minutes of the last meeting, the evaluation will include topics such as the provost's academic leadership and his effect on faculty morale. Those not eligible to vote include part-time and visiting faculty members, num­bering about ninety. 
Senate Chairman James Cushing explained that the full-time members are probably more able to provide an accurate evaluation of the provost than the visiting and part-time members who are less likely to be acquainted with the provost. rushing stressed that this is an evaluation and not a poll or a vote. 
Evaluation results not published 
A motion to publish tabulated results of the provost evaluation in the :'\otrP DamP Reports was unanimously opposed after the Senate proposed a subsequent motion to keep results of the survey confidential. Twenty-four members voted for publishing the results and none opposed the proposal to limit referral of the results to the Academic Council Review Committee, which includes Fr. Hesburgh a.nd Fr. Burtchaell, and the Board of Trustees. 
Faculty members participating in the evaluation will not be Informed of the results of the survey. 
The method of insuring confidentiality of the report was the next item discussed by the Senate. The body voted unanimously to allow the Executive Committee of the Faculty senate to ap­point "two suitable senior persons" to compile and transmit the results to the appropriate bodies. It was also decided to keep one confidential copy of the results in the Senate records. 
A proposal to withdraw a motion sent to the Steering Com­mittee of the Academic Council requesting that the proposed Faculty Service Report not be implemented passed with 22 votes. The Senate had earlier objected to the present form and sent the request to the Steering Committee before Fr. Burt­ehaell informed the Senate that the Faculty Service Report in its present form would not be implemented. The Senate stated that as long as the present draft was not being implemented, then it was safe to withdraw the motion. 
("onespondence on Service Reports 

Another proposal which passed Senate approval concerned correspondence between the Senate and Fr. Burtchaell on Faculty Service Reports. The vote was 22 for, 2 opposed and 1 abstention to the motion to circulate the stated correspondence to departments of the University, provided that Fr. Burtchaell also approves. If he does not, the Faculty Senate will circulate only what they send out. 
Additional ammendments were proposed to ammendments previously proposed by the Ad Hoc Committee on Procedures of Appointments and Promotions to rules stated in the Academic Manual. 
One motion proposed an amendment to divide the Ad Hoc Committee's report into two separate reports before sending to the Academic Council for further amending. The motion was defeated, with opposing members citing the fact that the report and the amendments would probably instigate further discussion and revision in the Academic Council, and the proposed amendment would be unnecessary .Other proposals dealt with wording in the Ad Hoc Committee's report. 
:'\ew members on Faculty Senate Affairs Committee 
Faculty Senate members voted to elect 2 members from 52 nominees to the Faculty Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees and 3 new members from 57 nominees to the Student Life Committee. Nominated at the meeting were Matthew Fitzsimmons, for election to the SLC and James Danehy to the Advanced Student Affairs Committee. 
Elections for next year's Faculty Senate will be held at the next and final meeting of the year on May 1. 

by Teny Keeny Editor-in-Chief 
The bill to limit the legal liability for colleges and universities in cases of underage student consumption of alcoholic beverages failed last night to reach the Indiana House floor. 
The bill isscheduledto come up for a final House vote today. The bill, drawn up with the assistance of General Counsel Philip 
. Faccenda, passed the Indiana Senate last February by a 46-3 margin. The bill now facing House consideration is an amended version of the Senate-passed bill. The House has amended the bill to provide that 18 year-olds in Indiana be allowed to enter establishments that serve alcoholic beverages as 
long as they do not consume alcohol. Under current Indiana law, only persons over 21 are permitted to enter taverns and restaurants that serve alcohol. 
If the House should pass the amended version of the bill, it will be sent to the Senate. If the Senate accepts the bill as amended, it will go directly to Governor Otis Bown for his signature. If the Senate rejects the amendment, the disputed provisions will be worked out in House-Senate conference. 
According to Faccenda, Governor Bown has indicated that he will sign the bill if it meets House approval. 
The bill, Senate Bill 282, is on the formal House agenda to be con­sidered before the end of the session this month. It is being sponsored by Senatr~ Majority Leader Philip Gutman <R l and Minority Leader Thomas Teague <D l. 
This session of the Indiana legislature has already seen the bill to lower the drinking age to 18 was killed in committee. 
Chester Dovis, chairman of the House Public Policy Committee, killed the 18 year-old drinking bill last month when he decided not to submit the proposal to a committee vote. 
The limited liability bill would free the Universities and colleges from strict liability for students who violate Indiana drinking laws. 
The bill was proposed after two cases in the Indiana State Supreme Court extended a broad in­terpretation of legal responsibility for underage drinking to persons who have knowledge of its existence. 

Story conflicts with Security report 

Woman reports attempted rape 
by Katie Kerwin Staff Reporter 
A Notre Dame woman reported that she was attacked near campus shortly before the Easter break, but was not seriously harmed. 
The woman an undergraduate student, reported an attempted rape occurring late in the evening on Wednesday, March 19. Accounts of the incident differ. 
The victim stated she was walking alone down Notre Dame Avenue towards the campus. Just before she reached Angela, a pick-up truck pulled up and the driver offered her a ride back to campus. She asked him if he could take her to the Circle and when he said yes, she got in. She described him as seeming to be "nice" and "friendly." 
When the truck reached the stoplight at Angela, the driver signalled a right turn. When the girl pointed out that he was going the wrong way, he asked her if he could take her to the Library Circle in­stead and she assented. 
Victim's account Instead of driving to the Library Circle, however, he took Ivy to Douglas and turned onto a side road off Douglas. He then said he had made a mistake and he would go back the other way. The victim said the man then stalled the engine. At this point, she decided that things were getting out of hand and she attempted to get out of the truck. The man grabbed her arm and she told him to leave her alone and pulled away. She kicked the door open and managed to slip out of the truck. According to the victim's story, he followed her and threw her down on the ground. He put his hand on her throat and she said she thought he was going to choke her. All this time she was struggling, kicking and trying to fight him off. During the scuffle her jacket was ripped and she told him she was going to get sick. He kept his hand on her throat for about a minute and then he got up, looking startled, she said. The assailant apologized, saying he was sorry and he wouldn't bother her anymore. He said he didn't know what came over him, but that he was sorry and would drive her back to campus. She hesitated at first, refusing and saying she would walk back, but at last he convinced her that it would be all right. She went along with him. partly because she didn't want to upset him and perhaps provoke another attack. She waited until he got in and then got in the other side of the truck, sitting as far away from him as possible. She rode back to the campus with him, keeping the door next to her open and holding it shut with her hand, ready to get out if he moved towards her. 

The victim said the man let her off, still apologizing, and she went back to her dorm and reported the incident to Notre Dame Security. She gave her account to both Security and the county police. 
The next morning she again talked to a woman from Security and also looked at some pictures shown to her by the county police. 
Security report , Arthur Pears, director of Notre Dame Security, when questioned 
about the attack, described it as a matter of a man making "improper advances" to a Notre Dame student. He said that a Notre Dame girl was hitch-hiking from downtown South Bend and was picked up by a man in a pick-up truck. The man drove past the campus, Pears said, and pulled into a side road off 
Douglas. 

According to Pears, the man then "made improper advances," but he did not pursue her and the girl did not have to fight him off. The assailant supposedly told her that if she resisted, he would leave her alone. She resisted and the man apologized, offering to drive her back to campus, which he sub­sequently did. He reportedly told her that he was sorry, Pears reported. 
Pears was very definite on the points that the girl was downtown when she got into the truck and that the man had not forced himself on her. 
When told of this account, the victim angrily stated that Pears' story was not the same as the ac­count she had given Pears. 


world briefs, 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The State Department said Wed-, nesday Egypt has formally 
requested  resumption  of  the  
Geneva  conference  on  the  
Middle East.  

Department spokesman Robert Anderson said the request was received Tuesday night. He said no date for resumption of the conference had vet been agreed upon. 
PHILADELPHIA (UPI)-The Pennsylvania Supreme Court Wednesday ruled un­constitutional a state law which provides different penalties for men and women convicted of· fornication. 1 
The court noted that under state law, an unmarried woman who had a child could be con­victed of fornication and fined up to $100. 
But a man convicted of being the father of the child of an unmarried woman could receive the same fine but also required to pay for the expenses l)f the birth and care of the child ind funeral expenses if the :hild should die. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) Energy consumption in the United States unexpectedly fell 
2.2 per cent in 1974 after climbing steadily for more than two decades, Interior Secretary Rogers C. B. Morton reported Wednesday. 
"This is the first decrease since 1952," Morton said. "I am delighted.•.! hope we are seeing the start of a new trend." 
If the reversal is a trend, he said, it means conservation efforts can effectively sup­plement President Ford's drive to increuse U.S. energy production and lower reliance on foreign oil supplies. 
SAN FRANCISCO (UPI) ­The government has dropped its subpoena seeking testimony from John J. Scott, father of Jack Scott, key figure in the Patricia Hearst investigation, it was disclosed Wednesday. 
The older Scott has appeared twice before a federal grand jury in San Francisco. He refused to answer questions, claiming privilege of the 5th Amendment. 


an campus today 
2:30 . 5 pm -meeting, usl renewal workshop, rock. 
2:45 pm -film, "the gospel according to st. matthew" by pasollnl. 50 cents, lib aud. 
3:30 pm -computer course, computer center tour, 113 comp. center. 
4 pm seminar, "pulse radlolytlc Investigation of the solvated electron In liquid ammonia" by dr. farhatazlz, conf. room, rad lab. 
4:30 pm -colloquium, dr. b. williams, 226 comp. center. 
7, 9, & 11 pm -film, "king 
kong", $1, eng. aud. 
B pm -lecture, "civil rights & 
abuses of federal power" by a. 
Iowenstein, law school lounge. 
B pm -recital, faculty plano, 
john fisher, smc, little theater. 

Education programs to benefit 
Faculty receives research funding 
The University of Notre Dame natives for jet engine control by has accepted $232,611 in awards for Dr. James L. Melsa, chairman of the month of February to support the Department of Electrical individual faculty projects in Engineering, and Drs. Richard J. research as well as innovative Leake and Michael K. Sa in, education programs, according to professors of electrical Dr. Robert E. Gordon, Notre Dame engineering. vice-president for advanced --$19,000 from NSF for studies. theoretical studies of nuclear 
A wards for research totaled structure and reactions by Drs. $202,652 and included: Eugene R. Marshalke and Paul E. 
--$45,854 from the National In­Shanley, associate professors of stitutes of Health for development physics. and study of germfree rats by Dr. --$18,998 from the Environmental Morris Pollard, chairman of the Protection Agency for collection
and assessment of sub-micron
Department of Microbiology and director of Lobund Laboratory. particulate matter by Dr. Andrew 
--$38,000 from the National R. McFarland, visiting associate Science Foundation <NSF) for professor of civil engineering. study of quadratic forms and --52,800 from Miles Laboratories, group theory by Dr. 0. Timothy Inc. for use of the animal facilities O'Meara, professor mathematics. in Lobund Laboratory, directed by
--$25,000 from the National Dr. Morris Pollard. Aeronautics and Space Ad­--$3,000 from the National Gas ministration for a study of alter-Processors Association for a study 
Benefits recipients should notify Student Accounts 
Notre Dame students who are six weeks to receive payments. receiving veteran's educational 
Veterans should also know thatbenefits and who intend to return due to the recent law passed byfor the fall semester or for summer Congress they may be eligible forschool should notify the Student an extension of their educationalAccounts Office. Those attending benefits beyond the thirty-sixsummer school should notify month maximum. This extensionStudent Accounts during early can be granted only to studentsApril and those returning for the who need the extra time to com­fall semester should notify Student plete work on a bachelor's degree. 
Accounts before leaving for Veterans having academicsummer vacation in May or by troubles may be interested to knowmail before July 15. 
that the V.A. may be able to helpStudent Accounts needs to know with up to sixty dollars per monththe number of hours that will be for tutoring.
taken, the address to which payments should be sent, and the Notre Dame veterans with expected date of graduation. questions about these or other 
Veterans who wait until the veteran's benefits should contact semester starts to apply for the local veteran's representatives 
benefits could have to wait five to at 237-4415. 
Notre Dame-St. Mary's bus begins newevening route 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's same route in the other direction. shuttle bus will change its route Fr. James Riehle, Director of through campus starting im­Student Services, and Dean of mediately. The new routes will Students John Macheca were in­affect the 6:00p.m. to 11:00 p.m. fluential in getting the route runs and the 11:00 p.m. to 12:00 changed when it was brought to 
p.m. runs. their attention that the busses were 
Starting at 6:00p.m. the shuttle contracted and paid to run through will enter the south gate at the campus but had failed to do so Circle and go around the lakes to after 6:00 p.m. the east gate at Flanner and Grace. From there the shuttle will 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semetter except
stop at the Library Circle and the 
vacations by the students of the
Main Circle then out Notre Dame 
University of Notre Dame and St.
Ave. 

Mary's College. Subscriptions
Starting at 11:00 p.m. the 
may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Box' Q, Notre Dame,
shuttle will again enter through the 
south gate at the Circle, around the 
Indiana 46556. Second class
lakes up to the North Dining Hall, 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind.
and stop at O'Shaughnessy Hall as 
46556. 

it normally does during the day. 
The buses will then retrace the 
lung conference site is changed 
The conference to celebrate the birthday of noted psychologist 
C.G. Jung has been moved to Washington Hall for the Friday, Saturday, and Sunday sessions in anticipation of large crowds. The Thursday session will be held in the Center for Continuing Education as previously an­nounced. 


BINGO NITE 
B  $  
I  
$  N  $  
G  
$  0  

KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS FRIDAY APRIL 4 BEGINS AT 8 

CA$H PRIZES 
INFO CALL 7018 
· of solubility of hydrocarbons by Mechanical Engineering, and Dr. Dr. James P. Kohn, professor of Thomas P. Fehlner, associate chemical engineering, and Dr. nrofessor of chemistry. Kraemer D. Luks, associate --$5,000 from Uniroyal, Inc. for a professor chemical engineering. study of the historical development 
Awards for educational of science and technology by Dr. programs totaled $29,959 and in-Michael J. Crowe, professor, eluded: General Program of Liberal 
--$23,620 from NSF for un-Studies. dergraduate research par---$1,339 from the Indiana ticipation programs in aerospace Committee for the Humanities for and mechanical engineering and a public discussion program on chemistry administered by Dr. population and environment 
K.T. Yang, chairman of the directed by Dr. A. Edward Manier, Department of Aerospace and associate profe~sor of philosophy. 
~-------...;;________...;,__.__...;____...., 
lnPirg 
is coming to 
SMC 


"Action for a change" 
Organizational Meeting 
Thursday April 3 
7:30pm 



204 Sdence Bldg. 
SOUTH BEND'S IRISH PUB 


~~.t, oY-' 
.t.z-_.c srrJ'..-r-s. 
NOW SERVING GYROS {A GREEK SPECIALTY) AND OTHER FINE FOOD 
ALSO YOOR FAVORITE BEER, V\4NE J\J\JD COCKTAILS 
ACROSS FRONt GOOD OLD CO 



Thursday, April 3, 1975 the observer 
--------~-----------------------­
Viet Cong threaten to attack Saigon if US continues support 
By the <UPI>--The Viet Cong said Wednesday Communist ar­med forces will push on to Saigon unless the United States ends it support for South Vietnam's President Nguyen Van Thieu. 
Dinh Ba Thi, chief negotiator in Paris for the Viet Cong Provisional Revolutionary Government, told a news conference that if Thieu is ~replaced by a government willing to endorse the 1973 Paris peace agreement, the PRG would open talks immediately with the new Saigon administration on ending the war. 
Thi said President Ford's decision to send naval vessels and Marines into Vietnamese waters to help evacuate refugees was considered by the PRG an act of "war and provocation" that would be resisted. 
Thi was asked twice if the Viet Cong would march on Saigon. 
"If the U.S. continues to maintain in Saigon the bellicose clique of Nguyen Van Thieu and 
contues to sabotage the P~ris · Schlesinger said, "It Is not my 
peace accords, the South VIet­namese population and our armed forces will continue their fight." President Ford has ruled out any bombing by U.S. Air Force planes to assist the beleaguered South Vietnamese army against the onrushing communist offensive, a spokesman said today. 
Press Secretary Ron Nessen told reporters that Ford has no plans to resume the bombing operations which were abandoned in January, 1973, and noted "the law forbids it." 
"You've heard the President say many times, he does not have any plans to do that because of his own inclination and the requirements of the law," Nessen told reporters. "The law is very clear." Nessen made the statement after repor­ters told him that Defense Secretary James Schlesinger at a news conference in Washington earlier today appeared to leave the question of bombing open. 
decision to make. 
Nessen announced that Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger will arrive at Palm Springs Thursday and will meet with the President that night. He said Army Chief of Staff Gen. Frederick C. Weyand will be arriving from his fact-finding trip to Saigon sometime Friday. 
The President's aides disclosed Tuesday that diplomatic efforts to stop the communist offensive have been futile. 
"The President has a great deal of sympathy and compassion for the Vietnamese neonle. He con­tinues to feel this Communist onslaught is a gross violation of the Paris Peace Accord and, like any civilized person, he is greatly distressed," Nessen said. 
There was no indication from Nessen and the other senior aides mustered in Palm Springs on what Ford will decide the United States should do about Indochina. 
Third World Relief Fund 


Pledge drive raises thousands 
by Shawn Scannell Staff Reporter 

Professor Robert Rodes, on behalf of the organizers of the Notre Dame Third World Relief Fund Drive stated Tuesday that cash and pl~dge contributions ~y faculty and campus employees m the drive totaled $13,959.90 as of the end of March. 
The pledge drive, initiated in early in February, allowed faculty and university employees to have contributions deducted from their paychecks. 116 faculty and 145 employees have so far par­ticipated. These deductions, plus 
various cash donations, have amounted to this figure. 
Four persons donated $500 or more, 39 contributed between $100 and $499, and 36 gave between $50 and $99, making a total of 88 donating more than $50. Some faculty organizers expressed 
disappointment at these relatively meager results, but hoped that a foundation had been established for a more substantial response in future years. 
According to the preferences indicated by the contributers, the contributions are to be distributed to these seven organizations at the following rates in percent: 
Campus parking permits are opened to freshmen 
by Karen Sikorski Staff Reporter 

Dean of Students John Macheca has approved a proposal by the Freshman Advisory Council permitting freshmen to have cars on campus for the rest of the school year. 
The decision, announced Tuesday, March 18, was made in conjunction with the Freshman Year Office and the Security Of­fice. It went into effect im­mediately after break. 
According to the proposal submitted to the Office of Student Affairs, freshmen will be able to apply for parking permits in lot D­1, where an estimated 50· 75 spaces are available. If more students apply than can be accomodated in lot D-1, they will be able to park in the White Field north of the lot, which has space for about 100 cars. 
Applications should be made at 
the Security Office and will be 
accepted on the basis of the 
student's grade point average for the first semester, also taking into account any deficiency slips received. A student with a grade point average of at least 2.0 , and who has no deficiencies is eligible 

to receive a permit. 

Explaining the reasoning behind this requirement, Macheca stated, "Giving this privilege to students who do not meet these requirements would be a disser­vice to them, since it would create a diversion from their academic pursuits. " Dean Hofman and I felt it was important not to work against the best interests of any students." 
Students who have brought cars 
to campus are encouraged to apply 
for registration as soon as possible 
to avoid being ticketed. A three 
dollar fee will be charged to those 
whose applications are accepted. 

Freshmen who have brought 
cars but do not meet the 
requirements will be permitted to 
park them without being ticketed, 
but will not be able to use the cars 
for the remainder of this semester. 
Catholic Relief Service  21  
Co-Workers of Mother Teresa  20  
OXFAM-America  13  
UNICEF  12  
CARE  12  
Church World Service  11  
IFCO-RAINS  11  

Contributions may still be made or pledge at the Personnel Department, and will be distributed by these percentages. 
Student cash contributions from 
dining  hall  collections  and  
Fellowship of  Christian  Athletes  
collections  at  basketball  games  

have amounted to $5372.76 so far this semester. This money will be distributed equally to the seven organizations instead of using the faculty's percentages. A new account will be set up within the accounting department at Notre Dame this week. 
The administrative cost of the pledge drive amounted to $525.26, which the University absorbed. The drive's organizers expressed their appreciation to Mr. Gary Marmontello for handling the administrative details. 
the observer 

Night Editor: Danny Sanchez Assistant Night Editor: Mary Janca Layout Staff: Maureen Sajbel, Julie Walsh, Marti Hogan, Martha Fanning ,A.nne Oswr~lrj, Bob Brink 
Day Editor: Val Zurblis 
Copy Reader: Ken Bradford, Bob Mader 
Features: Tom O'Neil (The one 
and only) 
Sports: Bill Brink 
Typists: Janet Carney, Karen 
Hinks, Jim Landis, Barb Norcross, 
Tom Modglin 
Compugraphic: Morey Blinder 
Night Controller: Rick Huber and 
M.J. Foley Picture Screener: Alber1 Ad Layout: Tom Whelan 

1974 -1975 FOOTBALL 
& 


BASKETBALL 
POSTERS for sale by THE OBSERVER See the display in the Huddle 
& the Observer office 
THURSDAY PITCHER BEER NITE
( 
-­

1 1 TONIGHT 
·FLOOD 
WHITE HOUSE I'NN 
NO COVER


683-9842

Just 8 mi. north of the state line. 
Take U.S. 31 north to Niles, then north on highway 51 3 mi. 
NOW APPEARING 


AZREAL 
AND LISTEN 
~Sizu/a ~ r/ite_ Cfut 
. NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS 
on U.S. 31 Ntween NitS, So. B•d·frM P•rtin&-683-·4350, 

Allard Lowenstein 
Former Congressman and Leader of the Dump Johnson Movement 
speaking on 
..Civil Rights and Abuses of Federal Power" 

Thursday, April 3, 1975 at 8 p.m. Law School Lounge 
Sponsored by Center for Civil Rights and Student Union Academic Commission 
HENRY FONDA 
PLAYING THE TITLE ROLE IN 
..CLARENCE DARROW" 
8:00p.m. 

MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM APRIL 3, 4, 5 $7 .50, $6.50, $5.50, $4.50 
TODAY'S PERFORMANCE -SPECIAL STUDENT DISCOUNT< 
THE BEST AVAILABLE SEATS WILL 
BE SOLD FOR $3.50 BEGINNING AT 11 :00 A.M. UNTIL SHOWTIME WITH N.D. OR S.M.C. I.D. 
the observer Thursday, April 3, 1975 
B-P resident wins contest 
Hotline is a 'Brainstorm' 
John Kenward Staff Reporter 

Cathy Falkenberg of 120 Breen· Phillips has been awarded the Grand Prize for her idea of a campus hotline in the Operation Brainstorm contest. 
Operation Brainstorm, an idea contest sponsored by the Om­budsman Service which ran from February 24 to March 12, con­cluded with the announcement of 10 winners, three each in the Social, Service, and Policy categories and a Grand Prize. 
Falkenberg's 50-dollar award­winning idea suggested the establishment of a campus hotline manned by students to take calis from other students and talk about any problems or anxieties they might have. 
Falkenberg further suggested that possibly sociology or psychology majors would work in the service. 
Judges for the contest, Dean Vincent Raymond, Mildred Kristowski, and Richard Sullivan ­all faculty -staff members o f the Ombudsman Advisory Board ­chose the other nine winners on the basis of originality, practicality, and implementation suggestions.. 
First place winners are to receive two tickets to an upcoming concert,not necessarily within this semester; second-place winners were awarded three dollars worth of McDonald's gift certificates: and third-place winners were each given an Bx10 autographed glossy of an ND favorite. 
By categories the winners are the following: 
In the Policy Category, the first­place award was given to Guy G.G. Wroble for his "Roommate preference" idea that suggests using computer cards in matching freshmen roommates. The survey would include such small but important personal distinctions as smokers and night owls. Second in this catogory was John Meuleman and his "Pre-registration in the ACC or Stepan Center" idea which advises complete advance registration in one of the buildings to avoid the helter-skelter in the 
campus-wide procuring of class cards. 1 mrd for the Policy Category was Joe Langenfeld and his "Project Rainbow" university district" suggestion. 
In the Social Category, Robert Sweeney, Jr. took first place with his "Computer Dance" entry. Second place was awarded to Kathy Horwath for her "Skating at the ACC" idea which would allow free skating for all students as well as late night skating and the issuance of skating equipment. 
Third prize was given to John J. Callahan for his "Dance Concerts" idea that would "make a dance more than a dance and make a concert more than a spectator event." . 
The Service Category first-place winner Joe Scott suggested a spring cleanup drive in the Nor­thwest neighborhood tavern district "To improve relations between students and the families living in that neighborhood." Scott also added that the drive could be followed up by a Student Govern­ment sponsored post-cleanup party or picnic. 
Second prize winner in the same category was Chris Reddick for his suggestion that road maps of the surrounding area be distributed along with information on bus routes and bicycle routes. Third place was given to Ken Hallett for his idea that a "quickie beginning typing class" be established at the beginning of each fall semester. 
Riehle to study energy waste as campus fuel costs increase 
by Michele Arrieh Staff Reporter 

Fr. James Riehle has been appointed Director of Energy Conservation at Notre Dame and will be examining methods of reducing energy consumption on campus. Riehle stated, "The recent budget for fuel has doubled from 1112 million dollars last year to 211.z million dollars this year, which is a substantial increase for the university." 
The new director believes that "people should be aware of the higher cost of fuel." He further stated that, "even a 10 percent of cost would mean a $250,000 savings, which isn't a small sum." 
Riehle discussed the need to 

"reduce unnecessary lighting in 
university offices and 
classrooms." He stated, 
"Although the campus power 
system is run efficiently, the three 
necessary fuels of oil, gas and coal 
have increased in cost tremen­
dously." 
"Fr. Hesburgh saw the need inestablishing a full-time and extensive committee to handle the problem of energy waste," stated Riehle. "The former Energy Conservation Committee reduced fuel consumption by one-third is in the past two years by eliminating unnecessary lighting around the ACC, the library and other outdoor buildings." 
Riehle added, "All heat was 

turned off in the dormitories 
during Christmas vacation." 
Riehle cited the interest in fuel conservation on other university campuses around the country. He stated, "Purdue has done much work in this area and we will be examining its techniques in controlling energy waste along with other schools." 
A meeting is scheduled soon to bring the former Energy Con-
Frosh Orientation applications 
Fre3hman Orientation Campus 

Coordinators Mark Grove and 
Mary Iden request that anyone 
who is interested in serving on the 
Freshman Orientation Campus 
Committee fill out an application 
available in the Student Govern­
ment offices. 
Approximately eight students 

will be needed for the committee 
which will coordinate the orien­
tation activities of the individual 
halls, sponsor! either a dance or 
concert, movies, and a carnival. 
Workshops will also be held for 

the hall coordinators of Orientation 
which is Student Government's 
first 1'1:\Ctivity in the fall. ', . 
AU applicatiOns should 1>e turned 

in at the Student Government 
offices by April 8. 
servation Director, Fr. James Flanigan and Riehle together to exchal)l~e ideas. 
Flanigan's improvements "resulted in the university meeting the fuel budget last year," he stated, but he foresees "a limitation of student use of elec­trical appliances in the future 
Flanigan stated "If everyone does their part the result is very sie:nificant." He also added that some interested alumni have suggested to his that "a lights o11t at 11 o'clock policy wouldbe helpful in conserving energy in the dorm­s," but he doubts that the students would agree. 
Hesburgh's letter 

To the Notre Dame Faculty, Staff, and Students: 
The inflationary costs of fuel and the overall energy crisis in which we find ourselves make it im­perative that we do everything possible at Notre Dame to con­serve energy. An Energy Con­servation Committee was formed and has been under the direction of Reverend James F. Flanigan, 
C.S.C. There have been noticeable· savings in energy because of the work of this Committee, for which I I commend them and all of you. It is my intention to keep this Committee in progress, but the Committee itself recommended that a person be appointed who would devote most of his time to the plannning for and achieving of energy conservation. 
It is with this in mind that I am appointing Reverend James F. Riehle, C.S.C., as Director of Energy Conservation, He will have an office in the Ad­ministration Building and I ask each one of you to cooperate fuJJy with him. 
It connot be overlooked that any savings in energy will also save dollars in our fuel budget. You may not be aware of the fact that in the last two years, the cost of fuel alone has increased •Over $1,000,000; that is, the fuel cost in our budget for 1975-76 will be more than $1,000,000 higher than that in the 1973-74 budget. This certainly speaks to the need of fuel con­servation for both conservation of 
energy and also for the con­servation of our funds . 
W count on your complete cooperation with both the new Director and the Energy Con­servation Committee. 
With many thanks, I am Ever devotedly in Notre Dame, <Rev.> Theodore M. liesburgh, 
C.S.C. President 

I<RAFTWERI< 
PLAYING MUSIC FROM THEIR NUMBER ONE ALBUM-"AUTOBAHN" 
VLU~! f3~~~~~L~U~ 
SATURDAY • APRIL 12 • 8PM MORRIS AUDITORIUM • SOUTH BEND ADVANCE 5.50 • DAY OF SHOW 6.50 
NOW SELLING AT MORRIS AUDITORIUM; BOOGIE RECORDS, COLLEGE SO.. MISHAWAKA; SUSPENDED CORD. ELKHART & GOSHEN. MAIL ORDERS: SEND MONEY ORDER WITH SELF­ADDRESSED, STAMPED ENVELOPE TO: MORRIS AUDITORIUM, 211 N. MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND. IN 

MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES 
* 2 FILMS 
* 
BOOKSTORE 

* 
LIVE FLOOR SHOW 


1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
li: 


Saturda~y, April 5 
O'Laughlin Auaitorrum 8 PM 
Tickets are 3.50 for Adults 
2.50 for Students 

and are available at Student Union Ticket OHice. A CAC pre~entotion 

Thursday, April 3, 1975 
the observer 
5 

letters from innsbruck 
After a short visit to Israel, it is hard to Imagine that this is such a troubled area. 
The people appear calm and oblivious to the potential of war. Both Jews and Arabs go about their affairs with a business-like attitude. Soldiers, with machine guns nonchalantly slung around their shoulders, blend in with civilians on the streets and busses. 
The land, even frontiers, seem peaceful. Mt. Hermon, within eyesight of the Syrian army, has developed Israel's prime ski resort. Of course, a midnight stroll along the Lebanese border is not recommended, but the same holds true for Central Park. With few exceptions, only the sounds of Israeli Army jeeps break the quiet. 
By far, the greatest concern among the citizens is the fragile state of the economy, something they must live with daily. The monetary hemmorage needed to pay for the Yom Kipper War of 1973 swamped the prosperity built since the Six-Day War of 1967. During those years, Israel was beginning to know a little luxury and im­prove a standard of living that had been harsh since the founding of the state. But the cost of the latest ignited a 40 percent inflation and damaged the important tourist industry. The price spiral has forced the people to scrimp again, a bitter pill after hopes for better. 
The prosperous years were a great building time for the country, and its results are evident everywhere. The area of an­cient civilizations is very modern now. Big cities, small towns and countrysides sprouted a proliferation of new apartmentsand community facilities. Tel Aviv is less than 70 years old, so even the"Old Section" looks of recent vintage. Even Jerusalen has been largely rebuilt, except for the Old Quarter and Arab sector. 
The material surge also benefitted that most Israeli of creations, the kibbutz. Kibbutzim constitute communism in practice, in as pure a form found anywhere. A group that decides to form such a com­mune obtains land from the government, then sets to work on it. The first years are rough; the families live in tents, but all possessions are held in common and all dividends are divided equally. As the farm pays off better, the kibbutz develops more. During the good years many places built theaters, swimming pools, hotels and raised dietary standards, in addition to improving the living quarters. Though only a small 
the passivity of israel 
fraction of the populace, kibbutzim perhaps ' best represent the country's spirit and drive in the face of adversity. 
The most remarkable part of Israel or perhaps the world has to be the Old Quarter of Jerusalem. If one cannot feel hope for mankind here, then he never will. In this center for the three great religions, people of every conceivable belief and background, if not dancing arm-in-arm, at least co-exist peacefully, quite a feat considering the hostilities that swirl not far away. With the walls of the Old City, the Jewish, Christian, and Arab quarters all display distinct personalities, yet accept each other as men. 
Orthodoxy is the main influence in the Jewish quarter. The men walk about in traditional garb: long black coats, rounded black hats, long, braided hair and beards. The food here is strictly kosher. There are several synogogues, but the holiest are located on the edge of and outside the quarter. The Wailing Wall, the sole rem­nant of an ancient temple, borders the Arab sector, and all accesses to the wall are under tight security. Worshippers face the wall, often touch it with their hands, saying their prayers to God. According to Hebrew tradition, men are separated from the women by a screen running from the middle of the wall in this case. Outside the Old City walls stands the Tomb od David, containing many artifacts from the time of this great king. 
When considering the Christian Quarter, one must always remember to divide by three,since most everything is split between the Orthodoxy, Armenian, and Catholic churches. The fourteen stations of Christ's journey through Jerusalem are all marked by churches. The Church of the Holy Sepulche, containing the Calvary, An­nointing Stone, and the Tomb of Christ within one hundred feet of each other, is also a tripartite arrangement, with the floor space within the church being divided. The Calvary fell into the Armenian portion. Three candles stand on each end of the Annointing Stone, one for each religion. The Tomb is a two chambered structure; the larger, outer chamber is split three ways, while the smaller chamber comes under Orthodox control. The Catholics lost out this time. 
A large, open-air market winds through the streets of the Arab Quarter, coming right up to the walls surrounding the Dome of the Rock. Much more variety is found 
'I Do I I Do!' 
The ND-SMC Theater production of I Do! I Do! will open Friday, April4 at the Little Theatre in Moreau Hall at 8 p.m. Additional performances will be given Saturday and Sunday, April 5 and 6. 
The play, written by Harvey Schmidt and Tom Jones, is billed as a light musical comedy portraying fifty years of the marriage of Michael and Agnes. The entire play is set in the couple's bedroom and contains scenes from their wedding night, their first, problems with their children and their struggles with aging. 
The role of Michael will be played by Scott Wahle, a senior from Hingham, Massachussetts, and the role of Agnes will be plated by Bridget Ragan, a sophomore from Wayland, Massachussetts. Both players are Notre Dame students. 
l Do! I Do! contains such well-known songs as "My Cup Runneth Over" and "What is a Woman?" Schmidt and Jones are also known for their highly successful musical, The Fa ntastiks. 
Kirk Packo, a senior from Oregon, Ohio, is directing the play and costuming is being managed by Kathy Gaffney, a SMC junior from Stamford, Connecticut. Tickets may be purchased tat the door on the performance nights and the box office will be open for sales at 7 p.m. Tickets are one dollar. 
here than in the tourist shops of the other sectors, because the natives themselves shop here, often in the long robes and headdress identified with Arab sheiks. The dome of the Dome is the most imposing monument in Jerusalem, covered with gold and impossible to miss in the sunlight. The mosque covers the rock where Mohammed ascended to heaven, and is a masterpiece of artistic tilework. Unfortunately, its location inside Israel complicates peace efforts, since the question of who should control the land underneath it becomes a very emotional issue. 
Just outside the Dome another con­troversy has arisen over practice of Israel's national hobby, archeology. In many places throughout the country the people have unearthed traces of past civilizations, 
by fim o 'reiley 
particularly in t~e desertregions. Now, the Israelies have begun digging along the inside walls of the Arab quarter, leaving the Arabs to claim that the area is being defaced. They •have responded by forcing Israel off the science and cultural com­mittee of the U.N.,· further heightening animosities between the two sides. 
Which ever way one feels about the 
· Mideast situation, admiration for Israel cannot be denied. Against long odds and many challenges they have carved them­selves a home in the desert, and are working hard to persevere. They feel the large Arab forces on their borders, some resignedly awaiting another war. They persevere, however, and build on in the firm belief that God had meant this land to be their home, something they will never surrender. 
st. paddy's day 

What really to expect? Leprechauns and magic had long passed from mind, but surely something of popularized Eire would surface on this most Irish of days. Knowing the exaggerated Irish spirit in New York and Chicago (was Daley's river green again this year? l, and being forewarned that Ireland would not match that foolishness, my excitement was tempered, but the Irish half of me was drawn irresistably by St. Patrick's charms. 
So, I and throngs of transplanted coun­trymen journeyed from London to Hol head a ort in Wales, and on to Dublin 
by bill carey 

culture. . Spicy Irish wit contrasted the stories about Belfast murder, and violence even in Dublin. , 
On the 17th we arose to find a steaming American-sized breakfast, the kind lady gone, as we soon learned, to buy us shamrocks. With the clover pinned to our collars, and a brogued farewell floating out the door, we felt more Irish than American as we mixed with the crowds moving toward O'Connel St. and the parade. 
To our surprise the city was filled, with the peoples of a holiday throng. Though not 
as grossly exaggerated, the excitement and 
II 

with the clover pinned to our collars, and a brogued farewell floating out the door, we felt more irish than american... " 
by ferry. Though certainly they tried, the local dignitaries couldn't quite dye the entire channel. I landed in Dublin on the 16th, at 8:30a.m. At this hour on a Sunday morning a city is not expected to be jum­ping, but it took three hours just to throw on a robe and get a cup of coffee, much less resemble a capitol city. Convincing evidence, though, of Dublin's existence was the sinus-opening Liffey river sludging by the station: no city would dare call itself major without such a symbol of progress. Unnecesary to dye this river--as I walked along, it changed color so many times that green was bound to appear at some point. 
Better things lay ahead, bless St. Pat. Crossing the Liffey at O'Connel St., Dublin's Champs Elysees, I trod the way to St. Stephen's Green, a wooded park, where I took refuge from the rain until a scheduled meeting time of noon. At the proper place, I found two fellow Innsbruckers, one O'Brien and the other Czechoslovak <he likes to drink l, and after salutations and the necessary vulgarities we tramped away to find our hopefully free lodging, wit)l a relative of Chris'. 
We walked into the arms of an authentic 
representative of Ireland. This lady was a 
total stranger to Chris, but warmly 
welcomed us with a cup of soothing Irish tea 
and cakes, a practice she continued 
throughout our stay. That evening, sitting 
around the fireplace, she and a jolly, round 
friend gave us a view into the country's interest were as strong as in the Erin Isles of Chicago, Boston, and New York. The large parade, replete with American high school bands, jaunted along its mile route, with 
•A
spectators blocking the streets from traffic. 
i
As the afternoon wore on, many filtered away to the day's main chore, the Irish­
• 
A
man's way of life: the favorite pubs, to 
j
better appreciate the day's joyous nature. Not to be outdone, we found Mooney's, 
l 
Dublin's most famous tavern, and pushed 
1 

our way into the raucous crowd already 
i I assembled. Only a few pints of Guiness,' their strong dark stout, are needed to reach 
I 
1 

an appreciative mood, and after much was 
l
sung and danced, and the carousing had ebbed a bit, we careened home <thank God we didn't have to cross the Liffey, or it would have turned yet another color). As always, the reliable Mrs. Erley had sand­wiches and tea awaiting us, and then a little warm, confused conversation finished St. Patrick's Day. 
We stayed in Dublin two more days, to know the city a little better, and to catch as many witticisms and anecdotes of Mrs. Erley's as possible. But the high point of the stay was the St. Patrick's Day celebration, and whatever leprechauns had appeared took their last pint and were off, as the city became quiet again. I left knowing that as dutifully as he tries, Mayor Daley will never be able to create as green an atmosphre as exists in Dublin on March 17th, the day for St. Patrick. 


Thursday, April 3, 1975
the observer
6 

Senior Class Fellow voting opens 
Voting for Senior Class Fellow editor and newswoman for various is also a member of the Boxing During the 'Era of Ara' ND foot­Workers of Mother Theresa. A will take place today and magazines. Alexander is editor-in Writers Association, and has been ball teams and players garnered sociology major, Sondej has also tomorrow in the dining halls and -chief of McCall's magazine and a Boxing afficianado for many numerous honors, including two become an author for the World the student center. Senior Class an editor and columnist for years. national championships 0966 and Hunger movement and is studying President Greg Ericksen noted Newsweek. She is also an editorial :JERRY GARCIA Lead 1973) and dozens of All-American ecology. yesterday "We're running the commentator for CBS 60 Minutes guitarist for the Grateful Dead, awards. Parseghian himself was GARRY TRUDEAU -Creator voting tw~ days to increase the I program and has been affiliated Garcia is considered a pseudo­named Coach of the Year by and artist of the popular comic percentage of seniors voting." ··with Harper's Bazaar and Flair. philosopher and spokesman for the various polls in 1964 and 1973. The strip "Doonesbury," Trudeau has 
Seniors may vote during lunch at Born in 1925 in New York City, group. Akron, Ohio native resigned with a used his unique talent to become a the South Dining Hall and in E and Alexander graduated from Vassar 95-17-4 record at ND, second in spokesman for liberal causes and
MICHAEL HARRINGTON ­
F lines of the North Dining Hall College. She has won the Golden victories only to Knute Rockne. provide a satirical comment on
Socialist author and lecturer,
between noon and 1 p.m. and Pen Award and was named Parseghian is also an active in contemporary society. Trudeau 
Harrin~ton is the leader of the New
during dinner between 5 p.m. and Woman of the Year by the Los charitable endeavors, serving as began the comic strip while still an
Democratic Coalition and a
6:15. Off-campus seniors may vote Angeles Times in 1967. Alexander National Campaign Chairman for undergraduate at Yale University
professor of political history at
in LaFortune during lunch hours at is an outspoken supporter of the the National Multiple Sclerosis and it became an instant success.
Queens College, New Y"rk. He is
noon to 1 p.m. ERA. Society. Now 26, Trudeau has been called
an outspoken member of numerous 
The recipient of the senior AL SONDEJ -A 1974 graduate of the "youngest and most successful 
Task Forces on Poverty and
fellowship will visit Notre Dame in JIMMY BRESLIN Con-Notre Dame, Sondej has spent the of the new wave of comic strip
authored The Other America,
late April or early May to receive temporary author and literary past year collecting money for the artists appearing in today's
Socialism, and Toward
his award and give a presentation critic, Breslin is a colorful member a Notre Dame Third World Relief newspapers" by the Washington
Democratic Left. 
Post.

to the Class of '75. of the 'Irish Mafia' known for his Fund. This fund includes the Hesults of the election will be newspaper reporting on national JAMES KRITZECK -An expert in Catholic Relief Services, CARE, Questions regarding the election released Monday, April 7. events and his syndicated column. Middle East, Kritzeck is a con­UNICEF, OXFAM, Church World or the candidates should be The following are candidates for Born in 1930. Breslin has authored sultant to the United Nations, the 
Service, IFCO-RAINS and Co-directed to Ericksen at 3692. the award include: The Gang That Couldn't Shoot U.S. State Department, The Straight and Sunny Jim: Can't Vatican, and the Kingdom of Saudi 
SHAN A ALEXANDER -Liberal Anybody Hen• Play this Game. He Arabia. He received his M.A. and Ph. D. in Oriental languages from Princeton and came to Notre
Robert Indiana scheduled 
Dame from a position at the In­stitute for Advanced Study at
to speak Sunday at SMC 
Princeton in 1966. Kritzeck is 
Robert Indiana, well-known Pop Artist. who designed the "Love" sculpture at the Indiana Art Museum and the eight-cent "Love Stamp, will lecture at St. Mary's ()'Laughlin Auditorium on Sunday, April 6 at 4 p.m. 
The Women's Art League of the South Bend Art Center is spon­soring the lecture. Proceeds will go to the Art Center's Matching Fund Grant to purchase con­temporary works of art forits permanent collection. 
Indiana employs the mass medium of communication like other pop artists to express his intellectual views. His "Yield Brother" concisely reflects his < ncern relating toracialstruggles. n the subject of world hunger or urvival", his message is equally , ·ar. Two black and white intings, hanging side by side, 
e spdls "EAT" and the other, 

liE·· The Lorillard Corp. 
·entlv commissioned Indiana to 
,;ign a~erigraph for a portfolio of 
l' .S Bicentennial. 

:obert Indiana was born Sep­
nb('r 13, 1928 in Newcastle, 
Iiana and grew up during the 
· ·pression. He studied at the John 
-rron Art Institute, at the 
· tmson·Williams-Proctor In­
~-..tute, Utica, NY, and obtained his 
F .ne Arts degreeat The Chicago 
Art Institute. With the aid ol a 
fellowship, he studied at the 
llniversity of Edinburgh. Franklin 
and Marshal College, Lancaster, 
PPnnsylvania, awarded him a 
Doctor of Fine Arts degree in 1970. 
Among the many museums that 
have collected Indiana's works are 
the Museum of Modern Art, New 
York's Whitney Museum, the 
Indiana Art Museum, and the 
Smithsonian Institute. 

Tickets for the April 6 lecture 
may be purchased at the South 
UMOC commi..........,.~ ;needs volunteers 
' The Ugliest Man on Campus · committee is looking for volun­; teers to work during An Tostal. All ' students who wish to help raise : money for Notre Dame charities , should attend a meeting Sunday, ; April6 at 7 p.m. in the Engineering , Buildin , room 303. 
~~--~ 
CAR PROBLEMS? 
DON'T GET RIPPED 
OFF ON PARTS 
FOR YOUR CAR I 
WE HAVE PARTS FOR MOST AMERICAN & FOR,EIGN ,CARS AVAILABLE AT 

presently a professor of history atBend Art Center, 121 North Notre Dame.
Lafayette Blvd, O'Shaunessy Art ARA PARSEGHIAN -HeadGallery, Notre Dame, and in the football coach at Notre Dame forProgramming Office in Moreau eleven years, Parseghian resigned Hall of St. Mary's College. Student from coaching last December and 
reductions are available with 
accepted a fund-raising and public 
presentation ID. 

relations job with the University. 
----------------------------~~ 
BACK TO SPRING FLING Friday, April 4, 1975 
9 PM-1 AM 
Refreshments Also 50's Music Stepan Center 
Admission $.75 
NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMEN 
NOW RENTING FOR '75-'76 SCHOOL YEAR 

THESI<: Al'AHTMI<:NTS AHE LOCATED JUST SOUTH OF THE CAI\1l'llS ON NOTRE DAME AVENUE. EACH APARTMENT IS DESIGNED H)!{ FOl'H OH FI\'E STUDENTS AND IS COMPLETELY 1\IODEHN IN EVEHY DETAIL. 
SOME OUTSTANDING FEATURES: 

9 MONTH LEASE AVAILABLE ­
Private Patios and Balconies 

e USING NEW LEASE APPROVED BY 
Air Conditioning

DIR OF OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING. 
Kitchen with Range, Refrigerator and Garbage Disposals 
Cooking Utensils, Dishes, Silverware,

ONE BUILDING BEING RESERVEp 
Glasses, etc. 

e FOR GRADUATE STUDENTS-9 MO. 
Wall to Wall CarpetingOR 12 MO. LEASE. Party Bar Soundproof and Fireproof · Prewired for Cable TV and Telephone Lighted Paved Parking Area
SUMMER APARTMENTS 
Completely Furnished (X Long Beds)

• AVAILABLE NOW. 
Trunk Storage Over 1,000 sq. ft. apartment

APARTMENT LAYOUT Excellent Security
WHOLESALE PRICES 
HOFFMAN BROS. 1101 E. MADISON 

FOR RENTAL INFORMATION CALL 272-7656 or 234-6647
234-0 18--=-1-~ 

.,...__......,~. 


New Alumni directors named; will attend campus nteetings 
Six new directors of the National Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame have been elected by fellow graduates and will attend as observers a May meeting on the campus in com­pany with the cm·rent board and several Alumni Senate members representing clubs in major cities around the nation. 
Dr. J. Philip Clarke, Denver internal medicine specialist and a member of the Denver task force on health care delivery, has been named to represent alumni in the Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Utah, Colorado and Kansas area. A ·delegate to the Colorado Medical Society, he is a former president of the Denver Notre Dame Club and is chairman of the Ecumenical Commission for the Archdiocese of Denver. 
Joseph B. McGlynn, Jr., a St. Louis attorney, one of 10 members of his family who have attended Notre Dame between 1912 and 1974, has been elected from the Iowa­Missouri region. He is past president of the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis and is chairman of the St. Patrick's Day Parade in the city. He is a member of the Mirrouri, Illinois and St. Louis Bar Association and the Illinois Trial Lawyers Association. 
James J. Fayette, a 1942 graduate residing in Shelburne, Vt., and a founding cochairman of the World Business Council, Inc., has been elected to represent graduates in the New England areas of Maine, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Vermont and Connecticut. President of Vermont Fruit and Grocery Company, Clicquot Club and Royal Crown Bottling Com­panies, he is a dire(tor of the Notre Dame Club of Vermont and the founder of Junior Achievement in the state. 
Patrick W. Kittredge of Bryn Mawr. Penn., an attorney who received an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering at Notre Dame in 1958, has been elected to represent the Alumni Association in the areas of Eastern Penn­sylvania, Maryland, District of Columbia, West Virginia, Virginia and Delaware. An instructor at Temple University's School of Law, he is past president of the Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia and served on the board of directors 12 years. 
Charles L. Grace, president and 
.. 
campus view 

~ 
A NEW APARTMENT COM­
MUNITY DEVELOPED iF OR THE STUDENTS, OF NOTRE DAME & SAINT MARY'S. CAMPUS I VIEW IS SET IN A WOODED 
SURROUNDING 'YET IS ONLY 3 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME. LOCATED 'JUST ONE BLOCK NORTH OF STATE RD. 23 OFF OF WILLIS'RD. 
NOW RENTING FOR FALL SEMESTER 
( '75 -'76 SCHOOL Y~AR) FOR RENTAl. INFORMATI0(\1 PHONE 272-1_441 
owner of Cummins Carolinas, Inc. I classification reserved for alumni at Charlotte, N.C., is the new who attended Notre Dame during director for Notre Carolina, South the last five years, is James H. Carolina, Georgia and Florida. He Hunt, Jr., a 1973 graduate of 
is on the board of advisors of Pierre, S.C., who is presnently Belmont Abbey College and a employed by the U.S. Department director of Central Piedmont In­
of State. A free-lance dustries. The 1957 Notre Dame photographer, he was president of graduate is also a member of the his senior class and photo editor of Young Presidents Organization all student publications before and the North Carolina Motor attending the Rochester Institute Carriers Association. of Technology where he received 
The discount destination for student and budget travellers -Inexpensive Ireland • Charter Flights • Tours • Ferries • Buses • Cars • Bikes • Horses • Much, Much More! • It's all in this month's issue of STUDENT TRAVEL NEWS. Fill out the coupon and mail it today for your FREE copy! 
CIEE
Mail To: 777 United Nations Plaza SOFA136 East 57 Street 
New York, N.Y. 10017 OR New York, N.Y. 10022 Phone (212) 661·0316 Phone (212) PL 1-8000 

CAMPUS 
VIEW 
GJE ard lV\0 BEDR<X>M RJRNISHED P.PARTMENTS 
ic COMMU_NITY BUILDING 
ic INJ;)OOR SWIMMING POOl, 
ic, HASKETBALL COURT 

ic 2 BATHS IN 2 BEDROOM APT 
ALL APPLIANCES COLOR COORDINATED SECURITY_ 
lie 

SOUND CONDITIONED 
ic PRIVACY 
Thursday, April 3, 1975 
the observer 

.OPEN 11:00 A.M. 7 DAYS AWEEK 
·,MON. &·TUES. 
.'S TO 7:30 P~M~ 
SHAKEYS 
SUPER SUPPER 
CHICKEN -PIUA -SPAGHETTI -SALAD 
$192 
ALL YOU CAN EAT 
Olfldren 10 Yrs. & Uuler lSC: year 
, N.D. SPECIAL 
J50CoFF $1.00 
4ooUBLE SIZE FAMILY SIZE 
PIZZA 
OFFER EXPIRES APRIU 17 ONE COUPON PER PIZZA 



~ MILE WEST OF SCOTTSDALE MALL ON IRELAND FOR CARRY-OUTS 291-7500 
; 
( 
oi
.. 


UOnJi
'"ILAND DAU I 
---J 
:323 E. Ireland Rd. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED Ride needed to Binghamton or 
Rochester this weekend.  Jennifer  
4287  
Wanted  2  Notre  Dame  Football  

Banners for 1970 Cotton Bowl Victory. Size 18" by 36". Will pay reasonable price. Jay Wright 219· 287·6084 
--·-------­
Need good home for personable cat Simon over summer & '75'76 school year. Call Arthur 284·4857 or 289·3270 
Help Wanted Pandoras Books 233­2342 
Need Riders to Columbus, Ohio Friday. Call Brian 287.3586 
FOR SALE 
For Sale. 3 speed bike. excellent condition. Call Mary 7953 
Direct from Santa Fe, New Mex. Hand made Indian jewelry. crosses, rings, bracelets etc. Very well priced for graduation or yourself. Call 287·0076 after 7. 
1 Kraco Tape Deck. 2-4 channel repeater, quadraphonic sound, 4 AS 5" cones, 8 watts each. 287· 1322: John 
For Sale' Jensen Model 3 spkrs. One mo. old Must sell, best offer. Call Rich at 1175 
FOR SALE: "You can get anything you wan. t"...at Alices Restaurant Saturday night in Stepan. 
NOTICES 

-HELL  NO,  WE  WON'T  
GO!!!  .. Come,  then,  to  the  
SWINGIN'  60's  party  Saturday  
night in Stepan.  

Take the Greyhound from Notre 
Dame to Chicago every Friday at , 4:40. Two buses return Sunday. I Call Tom 272 1807 
Accurate, fast typing. Northeast section of South Bend. Reasonable. 
Phone 232·0746 
SM.MED. Dog to be given away. Good watch dog. Call 289-2371 
Men and women with two years of college left! Want to invest six . weeks this summer and assure yourself a second career as an Army Officer upon graduation? Earn approximately $500.00 this summer and gain self.confidence! No obligation. For information contact CPT Weimer at 283·6265 
'-•ab,;;;o;;u;;t;;A;;r;;m;;;;;yiiOiiOR;;O;;T;;CiiOiiOB;;a;;s;;iciiOiiOCiiOa_m_p_.__.;ATI;;_;.u;;_l;;ti;;m;,-a;.-t;.;;e_l;;y-;;;,D,;--i;;s-;;pl;.e..as,.;e;.d;F;,;o;.r.,d_ _,.,_IJ 
Will Do Typing. Experienced Themes. Contact Kay Rm. 114 Psychology 
SHARE hotline. Phone 4311 8-12 nightly. Completely confidential. 
Mass in La Fortune Ballroom at 
12:30 pm on Thursday and Friday by Fr. Robert Griffin. 
Pre-Professic:nal Society meeting & Party Fri. April 4 4-5 pm 129 NSH. All Invited 
IN PI R G Organizational Meeting for SMC-Thursday, April 3 7:30 204 Science Bldg. 
ND-SMC Council tor the Retarded. Saturday Rec, 9 am-11:30 am. Important meeting to follow. 
FOR RENT 
1 Bedroom Furnished apartment 2 blocks south of campus on N.D. 
nished for next year within ''> mile 
Ave.  Ca II  272-7656  or  272-6358  
evenings  
6  bedroom  house  for  rent,  fur­ 

of campus. 233-2613 
4 or 5 bedroom carpeted furnished home near Notre Dame available 
June 1. Phone 1-533-9665 
2 bedroom furnished home near Notre Dame. Available June 1. Phone 1 533·9665 
PERSONALS 
Looking for someone exciting! ? You'll meet him.her at the BACK To SPRING FLING. Held in Stepan Center, Friday April 4 at 
9:00 pm. Music by WIND, Ad mission $.75 
Jelly: Your legs aren't bad either and I sure like what they're carrying! For sure. Love, Patty 
Happy April from Pandoras 
Books. Spring is on it's way! ---------'fs -­Don't Forget Pre-Med Uub Party, Tomorrow Friday. 129 NSH 4.5pm 
THE SIXTIES WERE CLUTTER. THE SEVENTIES ARE VERY EMPTY .(Andy Warhol) 
HEY JUDE, I'll take you c:n a Magical Mystery Tour Saturday night in Stepan . Sgt. Pepper 
To Fran, 
I know you are behind what happened to my car. See me today or I will tell security Signed, 
7 
j 
~ 
~ 
l 
l 
j ~ 
~ 
I 
j 
J 
~ 
1 
-I l j j 
t 
-I 
1 
l l 
t 
j 
l l 
l I 
j 
l 
j 
J 
~ 
j j I 
j 
i·I j 
·j
,, 
'·< 
i' 
,. 
.' 
. 



th~observer 

TENNIS COACH Tom Fallon's players went undefeated in Galveston and are preparing this week for away matches against Ball State and Ohio State this weekend. 
Devine debuts today in opening football practice 
by Bill Brink Sports Editor 
One of the things head football coach Dan Devine is being indoctrinated to as he be~ins his tenure. at Notre Dame is the weather. The first day of sprmg practice, Devine's first da~ at the helm, was delayed yesterday by what Will undoubtedly not be the last spell of unfavorable weather, and the eagerly-awaited appearance is scheduled for this afternoon. 
But whether or not the outlook is sunny for the new head coach depends on how you view it. Though a good number of lettermen return, 14 starters are gone, nine from the offense. The competition for starting .berths in the yaca~ed of­fensive backfield and hne and the Juggbng of defensive assignments should make for an in­teresting month of football. 
"Naturally I'm very excite~ about sprin~ drills/' says Devine. "We'll be ?<?mg some thm~s di!­ferently and with all the positions we have to fill this practice session is crucial for us." 
Perhaps the most crucial task is replacing the depleted offense. Three-year star~er Tom Clements is gone at quarterback and expenenced runners AI Samuel, Eric Penick, and leading rusher Wayne Bullock are also gone. Fifth year man Frank Alloco who has another year of eligibility because of an i'njured sophomore season, is ~iven. the edge
-right now at quarterback though semor RICk Slager and a host of talented sophomores will also be comoeting. Reuturning rushers include Art Be~t, Mark McLane. Tom Parise, Russ Kornman, Jim 
1

RU gge•s dron t 
.& 1 ,Z" 
.~o•nJ·a contest·~
CallJ I .& , 
by Rob Kissel 

The Irish rugby team will travel just about anywhere to find the best in rugby competition. Notre Dame's squad flew out to sunny California for warm sun, that Colorado beer, and unfortunately three losses. 
The Notre Dame rugby 'A' side lost to California at Irvine 23-11, were defeated by the San Diego club 20-4, and dropped a tough 23-9 decision to the SC Trojans. 
Before their West Coast trip the ruggers downed the local South Bend team 28-10 under the lights at Cartier Field on St. Pat's Day. Scoring for ND were: Doug Mosser, Tony Mendiola, John Froman, Mike Halman, Mike Tovey, and Mitch Wilkes, handling the kicking duties. 
In the loss to Irvine, Mitch Wilkes hit a three-point penalty kick and Froman and Mosser added a try each for the Irish of­
-fense. Mosser tallied the sole try against the San Diego team. Team captain Larry Casey scored a four­point try against SC, with Wilkes converting on one conversion and one penalty kick for NO's nine points. "We had some team members in the serum who couldn't make the trip because of finances, but we still managed to play well in the first half of all the games," commented Casey, "but un­fortunately the other teams scored quickly on us in the second half which broke our spirit and 
11.10 
~ 
mementum. 

"The team picked up much valuable help from the tour, especially from the Irvine and Southern Cal teams," added senior Casey. "SC beat us on plays from the serum, which we are now in­corporating into our game plan." 
The ND 'B' side was a bit more successful in California losing only to Cal-Irvine 19-8, yet defeating San Diego 11-o and SC 13-10. The 'B's also turned the South Bend 'B' team around, winning 13-3. 
In the South Bend contest, Bill Jacobitz, Sean McDonald, George Faherty, with Mark Keown kicking, scored in the Irish win. George Spiegel and McDonald scored in the sole loss to Irvine. 
John Lukanich and Chris Lombardi scored tries for ND and kicker Keown notched a penalty three-pointer. Keown added a conversion and a penalty kick, Tony Mendiola scored a four­pointer, and Pete 'Stymie' Schreck scored the winning try in the 'B's defeat of the Trojans. 
"The 'B's really played well, giving each of the teams a good game," offered Casey. 
The Irish ruggers hope to open 
their official season this weekend 
with a rebound victory over the 
Bowling Green Falcons. 

The games against Bowling Green are at home Saturday af­ternoon on the fields behind Stepan. The 'B' game is at one, 'A' at two and the 'C's square off at 
three. 

Weiler and Terry Eurick. 
All-American receiver Pete Demmerle will probably be replaced by senior Kevin Doherty. The rest of the offensive line will sport some new names, with guard AI Wucjiak the only returning starter. Co-captain Ed Bauer, senior Steve Quehl on his way back from an leg injury, and Elton Moore, Cal Balliet and Vince Klees will try to fill the gap left by the graduation of experienced lineman like Steve Sylvester, Steve Neece, Mark Brenneman and 
Gerry DiNardo. 
"Obviously we're going to have to completely rebuild the offense," says Devine. "We've lost our entire starting backfield including Tom Clements who started for three years. All-American receiver Peter Demmerle is also gone as are most of the interior lineman." 
There is less void to fill on the defense, though some excellent players have left. Most notable is the absence of star linebackers Greg Collins and Drew Mahalic. Tony Novakov, Doug Becker and Pete Johnson are all up at the top of the replacement list, while Tom Eastman presently has the edge at the middle linebacker spot. 
The defensive line is a definite bright spot with standouts Steve Niehaus and co-captain Jim Stock returning at the end positions. Niehaus may very likely be switched back to his natural tackle position, joining frosh Jeff Weston. The other end spot would thzn be up for grabs among Tony Zap­pala, John Galanis, Ivan Brown and others. 
Reggie Barnett is the only starter graduating from the defensive backfield, but the starting berths are bv no means set, and the scramble for them 
ree
h 

UCLA lst,lrish 14th 
in final B-ball poll 
Till' Top Twenty teams In Thf Associated Press' final IV74-7S majo~ege basketball poll, wi~h first·plact> votes In part>nlhP St'ason records lllld total points. Points taiJiulate4l.oo ~l(l-UH.,IZ'Jit-~7 etc.: 
·1~. . 
0 0 ., 

I. 1.1\iLA (45R) . :,.. ·: . .'!",.. .. :.:a.... :........ 21!-3 969 
2. Kentu~ky ......r ..... ,.,.,00 ... ooOOOO oo ....26-5 830 
3. Indiana •(2~) 00 00 ...1. ,,,............... • . .. 31-1 7frl
}~a~:· · :·:::::::::::<.::::::;: : •::;~: :::~ •: 
e. ~c~(l) ...... oo,.oo ....~-.........,......... 23-,9 .+13 
~ Arl;:~ ~~.·::: :: : ·:· :::: ::::::: : :· gj, .m 
I. N. Carolina ...~ ............ oooo ... ~.. .-........ H~T~ 
~. ~1~ 0::::::: :~:: :.::..::::::::::::: ·~:\~~1··1$ 
13. Cincinnati ... .. oo,..... ~. 1 IH
000000 ............... , . 0 0 0 
000000 00 00 "' "

14. NOW>Dame.oo ... · 'Joo·oooo· 19-tl"v,. '110 
IS. Kail$as St.... 00.00 ... .. 00 ooi.r,oo !. : .. .•.o, .. 20-9 • · ID
00 

II. Dralcf -.... . .. oo ........ :•~jjj. ...>.,.. 26-IO '. 67 
ll. N~·L.V~ ........ l:·tJif1 ...24;5 0 41
00, ....... 

18. 0 011 St. . .'. .. .... 00, 'lf12 40
......... : .. ...... 

.... • b oo·~oo. .... oo.::........ ~oooo ..·~j,l9-81 r 36
00 

!11.' Provide~ .....1,, .... oo ............, ...1;·•U·10, 1.•f 
Ollllln Tt'CPiviQ w~. listed alphabt>fi~•IJoi: A~. ·41~ ~on Collrtlle. (jA:ntenary, Lflltn~l IUChiPfl, Clrmsdlil; Crt>ighton,"Furman, Holy CJ"'ISB1 Karaas.•lll Sllll', ¥ontana, New Mextro Stille, <>nr&on.:P.aa,ArtMM­~ ,_ R~ ._ Bonaw,(IIUrlj1Soutllem Calllo8la, Sttt~~Pn;'fenneSifto\,1exas A&~. TeiiA•~. Pai!o. Wllsbmg·
"tnft I r '/~. ''
J .. J 
should be interesting. Randy 
Harrison  returns  after a  solid  
freshman with the  season fight  at for  free the  s afety, other  

positions expected to occur bet­
ween Randy Payne, John Dubenetzky, Tom Lopienski, Tom 
•

Netmen sweep lD Texas 
by John Vincent 

The Notre Dame tennis team returned home from a very suc­cessful spring trip to the Galveston Island Spectacular as they cap­tured both the University and College Division titles. With the added four victories the Irish raised their dual record to 5-0 for the season. 
In the Tournament Method of scoring, Notre Dame accumulated 23 points to 20 for Oral Roberts, 18 for Indiana State and 31J2 for Bowling Green. The Irish defeated Oral Roberts and Indiana State by identical 6-3 scores and trounced Bowling Green 8-1 and Colorado College 9-0. 
Sophomore Randy Stehlik led the Irish in singles as he posted a 4-0 mark while playing in the number two spot. Stehlik also went undefeated in second doubles action as he teamed with junior Mike O'Donnell to sweep their four matches. Due to his excellent performance Stehlik was awarded the MVP trophy for the tournament. 
Irish senior Chris Kane also went undefeated in singles while playing in the number five slot. The government major from Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. won his matches convincingly, defeating such players as Dave Trimble of Bowling Green 6-2, 6-1 and Indiana State's Bill Briscoe 6-2, 4-6, 6-1. The victories gave him a 5-0 season mark. 
Freshman Brian Hainline 
>,,,. 
--,: :'[Jf~,~,;;~.•J;~,. 

NEW HEAD football coach Dan Devine will take to the field for the first time as spring football drills begin today. 
Maschmeir, Mike Banks, Ted kickoffs as he did last season.
Burgmeier, and Bob Zanot, who Punter Tony Brantley also returns. 
returns from a knee injury which Devine will get his first shot at
sidelined him last season. The kicking situation looks good the controls hopefully this af­
ternoon, if the south Bend weather 

too with three returners on hand. Field goal specialist Dave Reeve will permit. Spring practices had a fine freshman season while and scrimmages are open to the Pat McLaughlin may handle the public. 
proved to be a pleasant surprise for Irish mentor Tom Fallon. The pre-med major from Detroit, Mich. swept his four matches in the third position to put his overall record at 4-1. Hainline was also impressive in his outings as he overpowered George Oakilidis of Oral Roberts 6-3, 5-7, 6-3, Bowling Green's Doug Dennis 3-6, 6-3, 6-2 and Colorado College's Randy Harris 6-3, 6-4. Tony Bruno, a freshman from Milwaukee, Wis., paired with Hainline to split two decisions in the tournament while playing third doubles. 
Senior captain John Carrico recorded a 3-1 mark while playing in the top spot. His only loss came at the hands of Indiana State's Curt Willians 6-2, 6-4. Carrico over­whelmed Robyn Gool of Oral Roberts 6-3, 6-3, Colorado College's John Mongure 6-1, 3-6, 6-3 and Bowling Green's Glenn 
NICKlE'S 
CONGRATULATES THE 


OFF CAMPUS CRUNCHIES 1975 INTERHALL HOCKEY CHAMPS! 
DRAFT IS BACK 
NEW LOW PRICES: 
404 A DRAFT 3 FOR $1.00 PITCHERS $2.00 
PLUS THE BEST 1/2 POUND CHARCOAL BROILED HAMBURGERS IN TOWN 
~----------------------------------------~ 
Johnson 3-6, 7-5, 6-4. An accounting major from Lake Forest, Ill. Carrico combined with Kane to take 3 of 4 first doubles matches. 
Playing in the number four spot, senior Ron lnchauste captured threeof four matches, raising his record to 4-1 for the season. Juan Cerow of Oral Roberts gave ln­chauste his only loss 6-4, 6-4 but the Irish veteran rebounded with victories over Tim Howell of Bowling Green 6-7, 6-2, 6-2, Colorado College's Mike Murphy 6­3, 6-4 and Indiana State's Mike Welsh 6-7, 6-4, 7-5. 
The Irish were to face nationally ranked Houston but the match was rained out. 
The netters will square off against Ball State and Ohio State in away matches over the weekend. They open their home season against Indiana on Tuesday, April 8 at 3 p.m. 










