North dining hall '~nis~nanaged' 
by Tom O'Ne-il Fe-atures Editor 
The management of the North Dining Hall has recently come under fire by staff employees, for lack of responsible leadership. 
In one incident, nearly $2,000 worth of canned hams (nine cases) were thrown away Tuesday after being stored for approximately a year in a freezer. The canned meat became partially spoiled after prolonged storage and was punctured with meat cleavers to insure that employees or others, would not attempt to take the spoiled meat home for use. 
One dining hall employee described the incident as a ''completely irresponsible act of stupidity" on the part of the dining hall management. 
A Michigan farmer who nor­mally receives the food waste and uses it to feed his pigs, was not given the hams. One dining hall employee commented, "When they (the management) didn't give the hams to George (the pig keeper) it showed us they had something to hide. They wasted almost $2,000 worth of food and were em­barrassed to have anyone find out about it. Well, it's about time people discovered how really poor our management is." 
Tile average amount of food waste per week has been estimated by two student workers at $600. The normal weekly waste includes Pxcess food which was cooked for student use. but which left over at the end of meals. The food is not given to employees to take home. It is either thrown away or kept for use in the following meal. 

''This is another example of deliberate waste," one employee commented. "The food could be given to organizations at the end of every meal instead of being thrown away, but it isn't " 
Football Tt-am Patronized 

Another area of discontent among dining hall employees is the "preferential"treatment given to the football team which conducts its training table on F -line Sunday through Thursday of every week. 
The dining hall offers the players ready-made salads and fruit juices among other extras, plus double portions of either entree. Their food is stored in hot-boxes before every dinner begins and is never used as a reserve when the student food-supply is depleted, or the students are waiting on the lines for the cooks to catch up with their work. 
"It's a damned shame," another employee commented. "The football contract we have is such a sacred cow around here that to criticize how the players are patronized might mean you could lose you job. The students shouldn't have to wait for food when there's plenty in the hot-box already cooked for theplayers, and theyshouldn 't have to settle for something else when the roast beef runs out and there's a private 
(continued on page 8) 




Jim and Marianne Roemer spoke informally with interested Walsh hall members. With warmth and conviviality, the couple expressed their views on 
what student life at Notre Dame should be. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
Roemers speak at Walsh Hall 
by John Hannan Staff Reporter 
"I don't think the University will go into co-ed dorms until par­ticular facilities are built which will be able to handle a co-ed en­vironment," said Dean of Students Jim Roemer last night in Walsh Hall. 
Roemer and his wife Marianne spoke before a gathering of thirty women on the topics of co-ed living, campus crime and J­Boards. 
"A tremendous amount needs to be done in the whole area of coeducation," Roemer stated. He stressed that more student initiated activities need to come into being. 
Mrs. Roemer added that coeducation is very new to the university and "Notre Dame has a long way to go." 
Roemer felt there was a lot of creativity around that could go into changing the coeducation situation. 
It is Roemer's impression that some students feel, "Hey when we get co-ed dorms everything will be alright . Well I don't buy that," he said. 
A student raised the point that other universities such as Yale, Harvard and Ohio State have little problem with varying types of living arrangements. The student felt that the caliber of their students approached that of ours and that we might be missing some valuable living experiences. 
Roemer pointed out he has no control over what will be built and when it will be built, and he would like to be careful in a policy area not set only by himself. 
Roemer commented on his 

policy towards campus crime. "People who murder or rape should not be protected just because they committed the crime on campus," he stated. 
Information on crimes will be realeased immediately, including the location of the assault and description of the perpetrator. Roemer added that local police will be called in on all felonies. Arthur Pears and Roemer are the only ones authorized to contact the local authorities. 
Information will be released immediately, in the case of murder or rape, to the Observer, and local radio stations through the Division of Public Information. 
It will not be released to the South Bend Tribune because that would not serve the · policy's purpose, according to Roemer. 
(continued on page 8) 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------·----­
by Jim Winters 
Staff Reporter 

Notre Dame's economic experts are divided in their appraisals of President Ford's $28 billion tax cut plan, but most agree the proposal was "politically motivated." 
The plan, announced by Ford on Monday, is aimed at stimulating the economy by saving individuals up to $300 in next year's taxes. Businesses, however, would benefit most; over 70 per cent oft­he reductions would take place in business and corporate taxes. 
In addition, federal spending would be slashed an equal $28 would be imposed. 
Descriptons of the proposal • by economics, business, finance, and accounting professors ranged from "potentially beneficial" to "very unfair." 
Some professors believed the tax cut would fail to stem inflation and might even contribute to unem­ployment. Many expressed fear t­hat federal spending cuts wou1d most adversely affect social welfare programs, while others believed the proposal, if passed, would have little immediate effect on the economy. 
One professor doubted the 
(continued on page 8)

billion. and a rigid spending ceiling 
Affirznative Actim approved by HEW 
Notre Dame's affirmative action program for the em­ployment of women and members of minority groups has been formally approved by the Department of Health, Education and Welfare <HEW). 
University officials were informed that the affirmative action plan was approved with no changes in the original plan submitted by the University in April. 
The action clears a federal grant of $1.3 million from the Energy Research and Development Administration to support Notre Dame's Radiation Laboratory over the next 12 months. The grant was threatened last June when Notre Dame and 15 other schools were told HEW's Office of Civil Rights did not have time to evaluate their submitted affirmative action plans before new federal contracts went in to effect July 1. 

Such clearance is necessary for all government contracts above $1 million. 
The University, which had submitted its employment program in April received an extension to September 30, by which time personnel in HEW's regional Office for Civil Rights in Chicago were able to examine and approve its plan. 
"It is obvious from the results thus far," Regional Director Kenneth A. Mines wrote, Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, University president. "that you and your staff are fully committed to its (the plan's) implementation. We also recognize the efforts the University of Notre Dame has put into increasing the availability of minorities and females at the graduate degree level." 
the observer Thursct~YL October 9, 1975 
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON <AP> -Overwhelmingly rejecting a two-year limit, the Houe headed for near-certain approval Wednesdya night of a resolution committing 200 U.S. technicians to monitor the Israeli-Egyptian peace. 
Any danger of the technicians invovling the United States in a Middle East war, "is very remote," House international Relations Chairman Thomas E. Morgan, D-Pa., told the House. 
INDIANAPOLIS <AP> ....=.Preparations are being made for Sen. Birch Bayh of Indiana to officially announce his cnadidacy for the Democratic presidential nomination on Oct. 21. 
Tentative plans call for Bayh to confim his intentions to friends at a morning rally on his family farm near Shirkeiville, Ind., and then make the formal announcement about noon at the Indiana House of Representatives chamber in Indanapolis, where he began his political career. 
BUENSO AIRES, Argentina <AP) -Political-violence, which has killed more than 530 persons this year alone in Argentina, has ~harply worsened in the past three days and leading newspapers are calling it war. 
About 80 persons were shot dead in battle-or by stry bullets-in an apparently unrelated action around Aregentina during the three days. 
BEIRUT, Lebanon <AP) -Street fighting ravaged Beirut on Wednesday after a five-day lull, and a state radio announcer said, "We are losing Lebanon. Blood manicas are at large." 
The governor of Beirut imposed a citywide dusk-to-;dawn cur­few. But mortars and bombs continued to explode into the night across Beirut and in northern Lebanon. 
an c:ampus taday 
9:00 a_.m to 5:00 p.m. -peace corps and vista reps., lib lobby. 
4:00 p.m. -3:15 p.m.  -lecture, "the american corporation: who sits judgment?", lib. aud. -seminar, "low-energy electron-Impact spectra some saturated hydrocarbons," conference rm., radiation lab.  In of  
5:15 p.m.  -evensong vespers, log chapel  

7:30 p.m. computer course, "ibm utilities by example," rm. 115, 
computing center. 8 & 10 p.m. -film, "the conversation," eng. aud. 
by Marti Hogan Staff Reporter 

Founder's Day, commemorating the 131st anniversary of St. Mary's College, will kick off St. Mary's celebration of International Women's Year <IWY) this Sunday, October 12. 
The day's activities will begin at 3 p.m. with the opening of the school Archives in Bertrand Hall, located behind Holy Cross Hall, followed by a special 4:15 mass in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto. Fr. Walter Higgins of St. Mary's Campus Ministry will celebrate the mass and Sr. M. Raphaelita Whalen, who spoke at St. Mary's Founder's Day celebration last year,will give \the homily. 
Following the mass, Founder's Day will honor the students with a special dinner in the St. Mary's dining hall. Students are then invited to attend "The Hallmarks of the Liberally Educated Woman", to be presented by Betty 
B. Davis, mayor of South Haven, Michigan. Davis has been con­nected with the -school in the past and was a personal acquaintance of the late Sister Madeleva and Mother Angela. 
The lecture, which will be held at 7 p.m. in Carroll Hall, will "tie in with the idea of celebrating womanhood with the tradition of St. Mary's," said Mary Lu Bilek, student body vice president for Student Affairs. "It will point out the importance of the liberal education one can receive at St. Marv's in relation to establishing a 
Hwnan sexuality series open to students 
A lecture-discussion series on Human Sexuality will take place on · six successive Tuesday evenings beginning on Oct. 14 in the basement of Lewis Hall from 7 to 8:30p.m. 
The series is limited to the first 100 men and women who sign up in the Department of ~ciology and Anthropology office, 325 O'Shaughnessy Hall today, t­omorrow and Monday from 8 a.m. to noon and 1 to 5 p.m. There is no admission rchargeJ. 
The series will open with a lecture on "The Premarital Sexual Revolution," by Donald N. Barret­t,· associate professor of sociology. 

SMC celebrates Founders 
This lecture will be followed on "Psychological Considerations in Oct. 21 by "Sexual Physiology in Sexuality"on Nov. 4. Context" by Dr. George Godersky, Barrett will speak on "Con­a local gynecologist, and Sr. John traceptive Coitus, Pregnancy, and Mirian Jones, assistant to the Abortion" on Nov. 11 and the series provost. Fr. James T. Burtchaell, will close on Nov. 18 with a lecture provost, will discuss "Personal by Fr. Charles E. Sheedy, Sexual Issues" on Oct. 28, and Mrs. professor theology, on "Christian Patricia Crosson will speak. on Choices in Sexual Behavor." 
Come You Fightin' Irish 
the 
Tar ~eels 
future," she said. 

Artifacts and memorabilia on the history of St. Mary's will be on display in the foyer of Madeleva Hall following the talk. 
Gdffiths and Giovanni to speak 
In addition to the Founder's Day activities St. Mary's will continue 
to  celebrate  IWY  with  two  ac­ 
companying  speakers  and  a  
1 possible Alumni workshop.  

1 

Martha Griffiths,. U.S. 
1Democratic Congresswoman from Michigan since 1955, will speak Monday at 7 p.m. in O'Laughlin .Auditorium Griffiths. a prime mover in Congress for women's rights, co-sponsored the Equal Rights Amendment. Griffiths is a member of the House and Ways and Means Committee and the 
Joint Economic Commission. 

Nikki Giovanni, known as the "princess of black poetry", will read selectons from her poetry Tuesday at 7 p.m. in O'Laughlin 
Auditorium. Giovanni will attend a reception in the St. Mary's clubhouse following the readings to talk informally with students. 
Admission to these lectures is free for all St. Mary's and Notre Dame students. 
Alumnae workshop 

Junior Class President, Cindy Callahan, is attempting to set up an alumnae workshop Monday "to 
··the observer 


"The idea behind it is we're proud of the fact we're an all­women school," Bilek said. "The rest of the world is celebrating IWY. so we're using that as a springboard for our celebration." 
Night Editor: Val Zurblis Assistant Night Editor: Chr Smith Layout Staff: Liz Donovan, John Calcutt, Jim Stevens, Mickey Klein Day Editor: Mary Reher Copy Reader: Don Reimer Editorials: "Friend" Girouard Features: Tom O'Neil Sports: Bill Brink, Tom Kruczek Typists: Howard Ha l!e, CamII 
rrieh, Karen Hinks Compugraphic: Carolina Night Controller: Martha Fanning 
Layout: Anne Peeler, Joe 
if 
get alumni who have decided on their lifestyles to discuss with st­udents how St. Mary's helped to form them and how they found fulfillment in what they're doing now." Bilek said. 
"It will probably be a panel discussion with an assortment of alumnae," Bilek said. 
IWY will be celebrated in con­junction with Founder's Day because St. Mary's is the oldest liberal arts college for women in the U.S., emphasizing that women are competent and capable people. 
"Theidea of celebrating IWY and inviting prominent women to speak originated in Student Government and was carried through by the students," Bilek stated. "Sr. Ellen Delores Lynch, . vice president for development­public relations, th 'Alumni Association; Student Affairs Of­fice. and Campus Ministry were all invovled with the planning of 
Founder's Day. 
"We hope to have followups throughout the year with more speakers following the same th­eme. "There is also a possibility that St. Mary's will bring in a professional play by and about women with a completely female cast." Bilek said. 
The Ob!.erver i!. published Monday 
through Friday and weekly during 
the ;ummer session, except during 
exams and vacation period!. The 
Ob!.erver IS published by the 
students of the Univ. of Notre 
o'ame and St Mary's College 
Subscriptions may be purchased 
for 10 dollars per semester ( 18 
dollars per year) from The Ob 
!.erver. Box Q, Notre Dame. In 
d1ana, 46556 Second Class postage 
pa1d. Notre Dame, IN 46556 

TO TOWN & COUNTRY fOR YOUR FAVORITE 
INES-LIQUORS 
Both Stores Open Nights 'til 11 PM 
LIQUOR • WINE 10% DISCOUNT WITH ND-SMC I.D. BEER · BEST PRICE IN TOWN VOLUME DISCOUNT FREE DELIVERY 
TWO FREE LOCATIONS DELIVERY 
Bock Ber 

Town & Country Shoppinc Center Phone 259-3262
. I 
! 
-. 

Hall J-board revision in progress 
by Shawn Scannell Staff Reporter 
Work is underway to alleviate the problem of unused judicial boards in the halls. 
John Longsberg,and Mary Ellen Keenan, Judicial Coordinators for Student Government, have worked out a model for successful j-boards and plan towidelyapply this model. 
Lonsberg sees the j-boards as being potentially imortant bodies in the halls. 
"The j-board system allows relatively minor matters to stay in the hall, where they belong," he said. "Currently, most halls' j­boards are not active. I'd like to see all 20 halls using the same set up so the Dean of Stuaents will confidence in any hall handling its own problems. 
"This is one of the major goals of Student Government this year." Lonsberg continued, "If we can get a uniform system of j-boards in the halls, there is a good chance problems with parietals and 
drinking  regulations  can  be  
handled  within  the  individ ual  
hall."  

Lonsberg outlined the model j­board in two parts; the creation, and its consistency over a period of time. 
"We looked over the various methods being used and decided that the most •effective means of forming the j-boards was through interviews and appointments 
rather ' than elec­tions." Lonsberg said, "A panel would be set up, comprised of two members of the Hall Council, the hall president, a member of the hall staff and an ex-board mem­ber," he explained. 
"This panel would conduct in­terviews of interested students and make appropriate recom­mendations to the Hall Councii, who would ultimately select the members, he said."We have in mind a pool of 15 to 20 members with five or six acting on any given case," he said. 
Lonsberg pointed out the ad­vantage of having a member of hall staff on the panel. "This 

To improve SMCND relations 
Co-ex committee founded 
by Marianne Schulte Staff Reporter 
"If you're a Notre Dame coed, then you think that every Saint Mary's students is a witch. If you're a SMC student, then you think every Notre Dame coed is a bookworm. And if you're either of the two, then you thinkthatall Notre Dame men are frustrated jocks," commented Joe Corpora, founder of the new Co-Ex Committee of the ND-SMC community. 
Corpora pointed to a need for a joint committee of students from the two schools which will work towards achieving better relations between the schools and abolition of ·false stereotypes. 
Due to a lack of time in which to assume the full responsibiltity of such a time-consuming position, Corpora has had to resign his chairmanship of the gtoup. 
The newly-appointed chairmen are Terri Sullivan and John Bowman from Notre Dame, and Patty Pavlik from Saint Mary's. 
"The purpose of the committee is to provide an opportunity in which students from the two schools can get together to begin to know each other as people, and not as the stereotypes they are sup­posed to be because of what school they come from," explained Corpora. 
The Co-Ex Committee has its foundations in the SMAND organization founded four years agowhen Notre Dame went coed. This group has now been absorbed into the new Co-Ex Committee, according to Sullivan. 
SMAND's original membership consisted of ten or twelve SMC Students and Notre Dame coeds, the majority of the latter had transferred form SMC to ND. SMAND, however, never involved any of the male membership of the Notre Dame community. 
According to Corpora, students from the two schools usually meet socially at parties and other social gatherings, and never have the opportunity to interact in a relaxed atmosphere. 
He cited the current Human Sexuality discussions sponsored by the psychology department as a beneficial opportunity for students 

ND psychologists speculate on PatriciQ Hearst brainwashing 
by Bob Mader Campus Editor 
Brainwashing is simple with a knowledge of some basic techniques. Consequently, statements by Patricia Hearst's lawyers that she was brainwashed by her Simbionese Liberation Army captors may be true, three Notre Dame psychologists said. 
However, Dr. Ren Sloan noted that the effects of brainwashing depend on a continuing influence of a group. He questions why Hearst did not attempt to escape after the SLA was nearly annihilated in a gun battle with Los Angeles police and the guerilla band had stopped functioning. 
Dr. John Santos said one technique of brainwashing is combination of stimulus deprivation and stress. "You put 
the person in an empty room and scare the daylights out of them. If you limit the amount of stimulant they become hungry for any type of interaction. Then you very carefully tell them what you want them to hear and the message is grabbed in." 
Santos explained that everyone needs a balance between "inside adn outside stimulation." 
Someone who is ill and bedridden 
for a week becomes anxious if 
there's noone to talk to, Santos 
noted. Another example is the 
situation of a person alone in a 
forejgn country. 
Hearst's captors may have put 
her under duress by threatening 
her life and telling her that her 
parents hated her every half hour, would react ot the sudden release frow,..ik~ith friendliness. 
Sloan explained another method of brainwashing used by the Chinese on American prisoners during the Korean War. 
The techniques is based on the difference between expectations and what actually happens to the 
Observer Insight
* 
person. Americans expectedto be tortured by their captors Sloan said. "They heard all sorts of stories about getting their fingernails torn off and stuff like that." 
"When they were captured they were taken directly to political officers who told them they weren't regarded as enemies and that they had been used by the capitalists," Sloan said. The prisoners were shocked when they were treated kindly. 
Initially the prisoners were made to agree to "some low-key teachings of Maoist thought." These were things, Sloan said, ··such as all people should be free or that sometimes corporations take advantage of people." 
Individuals would be kept in line by group pressure. Everyone had to agree to a certain Maoist teaching or else the entire group would be punished perhaps by being denied supper or having the heat shut off. "In time the com­pliance demands would escalate," Sloan said. 
The object of this technique is to 

Santos sai<l.. If they suddenly .. teach the prisoner that deviance s~~~t~~ .tr,~~.~. ,.h~f..~~-?dlrl:fears~, 5r.eates troublE; for everyone.... , 
l.f .. 1_~~;~/~t,_#,_/·/,:·A·.,'J,._..,(~... ~..:,.,,:~:.-~-·,,~4.../,....-'. • •. ( • .~ ..~ • ·.··..,:·_~ ...:_.... 
Sloan mentioned that this technique or any of a number could have been used on Hearst. Life 
and death could have been used onhanging over her if she didn't agree. If the SLA was communist based they may have used a , Chinese communist handbook. Peer pressure from the group is important. Hearst was isolated from the world. Finally, there's a possibility that SLA leader Donald DeFreeze, who was said to have been very charismatic, could have swayed her, Sloan noted. I 
Santos said there is "no doubt" in his mind that DeFreeze could hve brainwashed her "with a basic knowledge of stimulus deprivation and duress." 
Dr. James Brogle said other reasons may exist for her behavioral change. '''There's no doubt in my mind that she un­derwent a dramatic personality change," he said, "but potential for change is a reflection of her personal attitudes." 
Brogle said she may not have had a complete self identity when she was captured and con­sequently easily influenced. "She may have flipped out and over identified with them," he said. 
"She coped with her immediate situation in the way she knew how, by identifying with the group," he continued. "That was the best alternative she saw. Shw was under extreme stress. Everyone has a cracking point." 
Sloan pointed out that "she may have been 'off' or just disposed to be an activist." 
Sloan noted .that activistt. groups are very liberal, but at the same time dogmatic about the rulesof ., 

person could report back to the rector on how well the panel was handling things. We hope this will foster confidence in the board by the rector. 
"One of the problems with j-boards in the past was that the rector often handled all the cases that came up," Lonsberg said. "In a poll conducted last spring, most rectors had little faith in the judicial boards. We're seeking to overcome this lack of confidence." 
The second part of the model would allow that those selected to beon the board would remain on it for their stay in the hall. 
"We want to establish con-of the j-boards ,in the halls. 

Keenan pointed out that, "The response from the presidents isn't complete. We are in the process of helping halls setup their j-boards. Once the boards are 1set up•, we're planning a meeting with Dean of Students Roemer so he can see where things stand." 
"Also, weare planningto set up a simple case for the sake of ex­perience," she added. Many of the members of the j-boards will have little or no experience in this kind of thing." 
"Eventually, we'd like to take a proposal to the SLC to incorporate rules and guidelines for j-board 
·4he gnmp, .._,,. · . . . . . . "··~-~----,..---~,..-::,:-_~,~,......~• --~~:/(~{.;)(.~~~~-~~(~~~'.··~-~-~,;(-~~.'T~,·t~-~~\·. \ ~ · \:,_..·~·.;·~·)_.~_>.· .. _:<.' ~,>t: :->~;:. ·..:v> · 
sistency so that each year there ·functioning into the University wouldn't be a problem of a totally r·egulations, "Keenan 'noted. "For inexperienced j-board. Each year, now. we want halls to contact us graduateing seniors and those about their j-boards. We'd be moving off campus would be galsd to help in setting them up." replaced by the selection system. II'! response to Student Govern­This would insure an increase ment work, Dean of Students in theover-all competence of the j-James Roemer said, "I am very boards," he explained. much in favor of hall j-boards. I 
The proposal for the model j-hope hall people working with hall board was outlined last spring in a :government and rectors can move letter to the hall pesidents. Lon-quickly towards the formation of j­sberg said little was done about it boards to show they can handle the at that time. responsibility it incurs." 
This year, he worked through the "I think it will have a rippling Hall Presidents Council to get effect to improve other areas of feedback about the current status. hall life," he said. 
~  ADELICATE  
L  "BALANCE  
, Mon.-Thurs. 6:30, ·9:00  
'  Fri.  7:00.9:30  
· Sat.-Sun.  2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30  

Uf)iler-tlf)U§e r=lix 
TWIN THEATRES-100 CENTER-MISHAWAKA-255-9575 

A FALL I<ETREA\ -TiME APARI FOR 'foU~SfLF 
PLACE": OLD COllEGE. D~TE : ocr.r1, t8, 1q (rRt.rHR.0'-"1-fSt».{.) 
WIT~ MoRlatJ j(fLSE.!~EME: HOW 1t:J LOVE 5 l'N UP IIJ CN-1f'rJS.;··~IA(IS'(Ry (t()~ Lie.),, f6t 
w ~·1' . . . J -·
.---------------...J 



1he Observer 
on independent student newspaper Founded Novftnber 3, 1%6 
Terry Keeney Editor-in-chief Tom Modglin Business Manager Tom Whelan Advertising Manager 
EDITORIAL BOARD AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Jim Eder, Executive Editor; Pat Hanifin, Editorial Editor; Kl'n Gir0uard, News Editor; Bob Mader, Campus Editor; Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor; Ken Bradford, Copy Editor; Bill Brink, Sports Editor; Tom O'Neil, Features Editor; Chris Smith, Photo Editor 
Editoro.ol• 281-8661 

Thursday, October 9, 1975 

P.O. Box Q 
time it took for the case to get thatBacks high, the plaintiff had lost stan­Security ding, purely a point of court tradition and not one of law. Many
Burtchaell Answers
other such cases are working their 
way through the court system, and 
such discriminatiory practices will 
l>t>ar Editor: Bl'ar Editor:
soon have to face the music.
I've been following the artiCles in In response to the letter written dit to find out where he stands that day on a particular issue.
I would again like to voice my
your past few issues concerning th­by Lisa Morel in the October 6 Congress has a different energy policy every day. No one knows
support for Fr. Burtchaell 's 
e Affirmative Action Program, issue. it is onlyfair to present the what it is until he or she reads The Post. 
position and hope that he continues 
and I would like to make an ob­other side, that of St. Mary's The only way the legislative branch can keep up on foreign af­
to stand against violation of rights
servation or two. Security. fairs is through the columns of The Post. No one knows what
in all cases.

First, I would like to praise Fr. First. not wanting to pull a cheap mischief Henry Kissinger has done the day before until he reads it Burtchaell for his stand on such an shot in passing the buck, but the in the paper .
Michael T. Hogan
unpopular view, one which is so SMC student who was attacked The Pentagon is utterly dependent on a morning newspaper. obviously taboo not only here, but was on Notre Dame's property. There is no way the military can plan for war unless they find out in any nominally progressive That is why St. Mary's Security from The Post who our enemies are. One day it could be Cuba, the 
Spoiled

locale. That view, as I see it, is was not there. next day Panama, the next day Portugal. The Post is also the only that we may have gone just a bit Second, Lisa Morel talks of source of information for the U.S. Air Force to know what the U.S. overboard in our headlong efforts Concert Security's 24 hour responsibility of Navy is up to, and it's the only way the U.S. Navy can find out what to thwart discriminatory pract­protection. The responsibility, as the U.S. Army is planning.Even foreign governments depend on
l>t>ar Editor:

ices. Civil rights laws are just and too few of St. Mary's students their Washington morning paper. There isn't an ambassador in honorable as long as they protect The musical and stage per­realize, does not fall only on the town who can provide accurate information to his home govern­the rights of all people and instit­formances at Saturday night's J. shoulders of Security, but is a joint ment before he reads the society pages of The Washin2ton Post. utions, not only the rights of ethnic Geil's-Rod Stewart concert were responsibility to be realized by The worst fear in this nervous city is that Cambodia could steal 
excellent. Unfortunately, the night 
minorities and women. both Secrurity and the St. Mary's another ship like the Mayaguez, and nobody in Washington would Secondly, I would like to say that was spoiled for me by a relatively student body. How is the Security know about it. 
I, for one, am not exactly clear as small number of the audience who department to keep things safe if to what the Affirmative Action found it necessary to leave their certain girls on the south end of 
Program really is. However, I seats during the performances and Holy Cross' fourth floor, in par­strongly suspect that it only too fill up the aisles in front of the ticular. are forever leaving the fire 
stage.

dosely resembles the mandatory escape door open? <and everyone quota system which is so Waiting a day for tickets (at wonders how that pervert got into 
widespread in employment and $7.50 each) for seats on the main Holy Cross last week! ) promotion practices today, not to floor in the front few rows had Third, for those who believe the mention other areas. certainly been useless because our security guards show no respect to 
view was effectively blocked by t­
If this is so, I feel that Fr. Burt­them. there are two facts that bear 
he rowdy mob of bleacher-exiles
chaell could have strengthened his keeping in mind: 1) respect shown 
who tried to storm over us in the
statements somewhat. Not only to the security guards is all but nil, 
struggle to gain our costly views of
does the Program infringe upon and 2> it is a constant wonder that 
the stage. These very in­
the rights of the University as an the security guards put up with as independent, private institution, considerate "townies" (sorry to much as they do for the miniscule but also on the rights of individuals generalize, but they all were of pay they receive. It is hard to 
such label), who would not move
who have been the victims of believe the turkeys they run up 
out of the way when asked
reverse discrimination because of against. It seems everyone 
it. Such programs make race, (repeatedly) in a polite manner to becomes a lawyer, ready to take do so. Tempers eventually flared an issue as unimportant a
creed, and sex criteria for hiring as 
and promotion as much as they in the area, and numerous fights parking ticket, to the Supremebroke out( one resulting in damage
l'ver were, only now they're Court. 
to my friend's expensive camera).
legalized, and justified by saying It would be of the greatest in­that they insure justice and Somehow, I felt that my good t­terest to all concerned if each St. 
ickets had been wasted.

equality in employment and Mary's student could spend one 
The help of the ACC ushers
promotion. ":'e~k with the Security guards,
would have been greatly ap­
Nothing, I repeat nothing, can ndmg with them to see what the ot­
preciated, but they refused to keep
justify not hiring a white male her side looks like. Even a few 
the main floor clear once the lights 
because there is a less qualified nights spent at the dispatcher's 
were turned off. I was told that it
black, or woman, or both, desk would prove to be most 
"wasn't what they're paid to do."
available and the quota has not yet enlightening. So next time anyone
<The one policeman who tried in
been met. This happens day in and thinks about dumping on the 
day out, and anyone who claims it vain to keep the area clear has security guards, think about how it 
been thanked.)

doesn't is simply displaying his or feels to be called all the names 
Because of this problem, I
her ignorance or hypocrisy. that are constantly hurled at the 
strongly suggest that the ACC hire security guards. 
At least one case that I know of 
people to control the crowds at
concerning reverse discrimination future concerts.
has reached the Supreme Court; it Charles T. Lucier. w~~ n~>r.lared moot because in the Matt Collier 
seriausly, falks No News 
•
1n 
Washington 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii a r t b uc:hwa I d 
WASHINGTON--A strike of The Washington Post does not only affect a newspaper or a city. It affects the entire country. Very few people realize how this town works. Because of its size, the only way the government can communicate with itself is through Washington's sole morning newspaper. 
For example, when Secretary of the Treasury William Simon gets up in the morning he reads The Washington Post to find out what President Ford's latest economic policy is. The other day President Ford said he was for maintaining the personal income tax cut. This was different from what Simon believed President Ford had on his mind. It was also different from what Simon said our tax policy should be. If the secretary of the treasury hadn't read President Ford's latest switch on taxes, he would have gone to his office that morning and ordered his staff to work on a program diametrically opposed to that of the President. 
Take the CIA hearings as another example. Every day the CIA tells a different story to the Senate and House committees in­vestigating the organization. It's impossible for the CIA to get the new story out to all its employees on such short notice. So the CIA leaks its new version to The Washington Post the night before, and everyone in the CIA is clued in the following morning. Without a Washington Post to give the CIA's party line, one CIA executive would be telling one story to the Senate and another executive an entirely different story to the House. This would cause chaos with our national security and could even lead to perjury charges, which is something everyone in the government is trying to avoid. 
The Department of Agriculture also can have major problems without a morning newspaper. Usually the only way the President finds out how much wheat the United States has sold to the Soviets is through The Washington Post. It isn't that the department doesn't report directly to the White House; it's just that no one in the White House ever bothers to read a Department of Agriculture report until it's too late, and the deal has been made. 
The same is true of HEW . The President has strong feelings about spending large sums of money for health, education and welfare since it only contributes to the deficit. But without The Washington Post Mr. Ford has no idea what bills have been passed that he should veto. In fact the fear in the White House is that if the strike continues for any length of time the President might wind up signing a bill passed by Congress, and then the country would be in a whale of a mess. 
It isn't only the Administration that is dependent on a morning paper in Washington. Every representative and senator must rea 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
OIL?/IN THAT'S PA60 !<16HT­PA60 P&RHAP5 
BAY.?! 81/.UONS 
tr8~
\ 
/,WRTH/ 
\ 
YeS, 90Y, MY fflJF'l~ HA~ A 8/?Jf3HT; Nf«< 
RJTUR£ AHMP OF 7Ha.1! 
BEfORE 7He YeAR IS OVT; ~'U fJC A 21" S~eN 
COLIJR 7Ei£VIS/ON IN 
~P(JT! 
\ 

Thursday, October 9, 1975 the observer 
5 

what's locked beneath the golden dome? 


Editm·'s nott>: This article, by Tom Russo, The fifth floor is impressive if for appt>at·t>d Junt-26, 1975 in the summer nothing else than its vast dimensions. Observer From outdoors the fifth floor appears to be 
a series of attic gables. In reality it ex­tends the entire width and breadth of theWhat lies beyond those blocked stairwells 
other four floors of the rna· building.
above the fourth floor of the Notre Dame 
Large empty corridors.· ill emptier
Administration building? Secret offices? 
rooms of peeling paint chipped
Stores of treasure? Hidden com-
plaster.• Graffitti on the for­
partments? 
mer students curiosity.
Nothing. 
Father Wilson Univers· .. ·' ·.
Or. almost nothing. 
for Business Affairs, of his schedule to c long -forgotten floor. locked once." he their way into 

were hoping to wampum. murals, mounted on rollers, depicting a 
If those st In one corner hung the Mass vestments 'historical or geographic scene. The im­missed the i ofearly French missionaries, including a ptressarios , in the style of Hawthorne's possession--its brocade chasuble of Father Marquette. Showman in the short story "Main Street",
The large roo These museum pieces were all would turn these murals across the stage g is a n 1942 because of a "fire bug to give the audience a sense of motion. Bylight. They were never replaced. charging admission, they earned their ''''"""'c1tely ben it that Sherman's coat and living traveling from town to town, lec­ins of th""''''''"'""'i!>A1'A'''''' t somewhere in the caverns turing on such learned topics as the . This w building . Mississippi River and yes, the Civil War. ntire uing places. One day--no one is sure exactly when--a unti cases on the lecturer arrived in town just as he ran out of money. So he decided to dq_nate his ~ktii::::;::::.:=::::. storical artifacts to Notre Dame. these 
luded the civil war murals and the dian relics. What alumni could top that tribution? 
earliest mention of these items in the September 30, 1938 edition ~otrt> Uamt> Scholastic which then the University's newspaper and 
magazine. But no one recorded ecturer's arrival. . Flanigan, Chairman of the Art 
' . rtment, judged from their style that urals were probably painted in the .·= . BOO's. The quality of the artwork, he 
· ·· sed, is "terrible!" 


T-shirts: 
,
express1ng an inner self 




' 
I 

photos by paul cleuenger
\ 
\ 

,· 
the observer Thursday, October 9, 1975 








8-Digil Programmable Scienlilic $13405 
Programs up to 102 , key steps! 3 stack register. Memory. 

Thursday, October 9, 1975 the observer 

ontheGrealeslStereoGear Around! 
Deluxe SANSUI441 System-Under$300! 
Sepal'alely $520.70

Best-buy Sansui 441 Stereo FM/ AM Receiver features tuning meter, 2 pairs of speaker outputs, tape monitor circuit and much more! 
$299
BSR 2260A X Changer comes com­plete with base, dust cover and cartridge! Two extended-range save $221.70 JF-10 lO" 2-Way Speaker Systems! 



Compact FM Converter 
Tunes in your favorite FM broadcast through your present AM car radio! Small enough to fit in any automobile! Installs quick­ly and easily under the dash! Very sensitive! 

that compares with this PIONEER PL-55X one! Auto arm return. Cast 
Semi-Auto Direct-Drive platter. Belt-drive. Low­Turntable. Professional per­capacitance cables! Base, formance plus the convenience dust cover and magnetic of auto-return tonearm. Excep­
stereo cartridge! 
tionally low wow, flutter, rumble. 
Virtually
:~:9.oo SJ29°0 perfect speed SJSSOO 
accuracy.
save $20.00 
Was $249.95 

SALE ENDS SUNDAY, OCT. 12th. 817 W. McKINLEY, MISHAWAKA (COLLEGE SQUARE) MON.-FRI. 10 to 9 SAT. 10to6 SUN. 12to5 

laubacJ< 
PHONE 256-1514 

the eledronic playground
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVE • QUANTITIES LIMITED 
~ 1975 Playback, Inc. 

Famous-Name 
8-Tr. Rec./Play 
Deck. Saves you 
money and pays for 
itself when you make 
your own tapes from 
FM broadcasts and 
friends' records! Pre­
cision level controls 
and meters. 

Was $129.95 

saa 
PIONEER 6161 
Front-Loading 
Dolby Stereo 
Cassette Deck. 


Performance that 
rivals that of many 
open reel machines! 
Bias and EQ for 
normal and chrome 
tape. Big level 
meters! 

Reg. $299.95 

$229 
TEAC 33408 4·Ch. 
Open Reel Deck. Complete provision for mike/line mixing! Exclusive Simul-Sync for overdubbing, sweetening, stacking tracks and adding echo! Accepts Was $1149.50 "pro" l01/2" 
reels. 3 heads. 
$950 
3 motors. 
save $199.50 



DUAL 1229Q Stereo/4­
Reg.
Ch. Auto Turntable. Un­questionably one of the best $50.05 $3988 fully automatic turntables on 
save $20.95

the market! Variable speed and strobe. Base and Shure M91E 
ACI DC Portable
Magnetic Stereo Cartridge! 
Casselle Recorder
Separately $335.85 
Built-in condenser micro­phone. Automatic shut-off
$229°0 

and recording level con­
save $106.85 

trol. 3-digit counter. Aux. input! Super! 
;, 
......_ 

8 
the observer 
North dining hall inisinanaged' 


(continued from page 1) 
supply for the players in the back." 
This extra service is paid for independently by the athletic department according to contract terms between the two organizations. It is usually an 
unprofitable  service  for  the  
management to offer.  
The  same  employee  as  above,  

however, claims that Mr. Aronson, head manager of the North Dining Hall has a field pass which allows him to stand on the sidelines during football games. 
Earlier in the season, training table began at approximately 6:00 pm and stayed open until the players finished eating. 
Now because of the athletic department's desire to show film­clips to the players immediately after practice and before training table, the meal begins around 7 pm and keeps the full-time and student 
Bike-a-thon for cancer scheduled 
by Karilee Clark will also be an alternate route at Staff Reporter Tulip Rd. 15 to 20 miles long for less avid enthusiasts. 
The American Cancer Society Participants may begin the will sponsor tis annual Bike-A­course any time between 9 a.m. Thon Saturday October 19. and noon. The course should be 
Proceeds from the Bike-A-Thon completed by 6 p.m. 
support the research and John Leader, chairman of the education programs of the Bike-A-Thon said,''The planning of American Cancer Society. this event has been two months in 
The Bike-A-Thon will follow a progress." Sponsors who have 35 mile course. There are two donated money and manpower in­starting points for the event, one at tude the American Red Cross, Washington High School Oocated Michiana Bicycle Association, St. at Lombardy Rd.), and the other Joseph's County REACT Citizens at Bendix Woods. Two stations Band Radio Club, South Bend 
,-along the way at the junctions of Jaycees, South Bend Police Dept., 

Harrison Rd. and Tulip and along with many individual con­another at Edison Rd. and Tulip tributors. will serve as check points. There will be 20 radio-controlled 
Volunteers from the American automobiles driving the route all Cancer Society and both the South day to assist any individuals with Bend and Mishawaka Jaycees will repairs or other problems," assist riders at these points. There Leader said. "We also have 
Reactions to proposal 
program had any economic basis businesses at the expense of in­at all. "I'm not sure an economist dividual taxpayers. could have much to say about the 
Assistant Prof. of Accountingplan." said Assistant Economis Kenneth Milani went further,Prof. Kenneth Jameson. "It's saying the tax cut "would benefiteconomic rationale is not obvious. 
all taxpayers, particularly lowThe plan seem like a political 
income taxpayers."

game leading up to the election." 
The chairman of the Finance and Peri Arnold, an assistant Business Economics department, government professor, says Ford Prof. Herbert E. Sim, stated that has the Democrats "caught in a the plan might not have an im­bind." If they approve the popular mediate economic effect. But Sim tax cut. Ford getstheeredit. If they warned that in the long run, "in­reject it, they get the blame. And if flation could become a greater they approve the spending cuts, danger" because of the influx of they may gut the social programs tax-saved dollars into the market. which has been the heart of their 
party's program.

A spending ceiling might rest­rain such inflation, Sim added, but 
Despite the Democrat's quan­it could also lead to greater dry, Arnold sees little hope for theunemployment. 
bill: "It's going to be damned hard Sim does not believe that Ford's getting it through Congress " he 
i) proposal unfairly benefits said. ' 
( ) 
:5 
STUDENT UNION PRESENTS:
I ) 
t s 
H
)
I l 
t
' 
( ( ,. 
l (
~ 
' 
SATURDAY &
I 
I 
' SUNDAY 
' 
I 
' OCTOBER 11 & 12 
'
•'• 
7, 9, llpm
r 
r 
I 
( 
\ ENGINEERING 
~­
' ( AUDITORIUM
I 
) 
I, ( I 
( 
~ 

workers late every evening. 

The student workers have complained that they are having to leave workafter 8: 00 pm and would like to be able to to leave earlier. The full-time employees have complained that they do not receive time-and-a-half pay for the extra time and accused the management of illegality 
Workers Not Paid Overtime 
"The food service has a policy not to pay over-time," one em­ployee explained, "and too often we're not getting paid for extra time. We know it's against the law to withhold it, but there's not much we can do about it. We don't want to lose our jobs." 
Not all of the added time is put in by the workers exclusively over the delay in training table, however. Many of the other workers have complained of the same difficulty due to the time they spend compensating for "the small work force." 
"Mr. Aronson is always trying to economize and make himself look good," another employee ex­plained. "But the money he saves goes straight back to the South Hall to be used there. As I un­derstand it, they don't get the sermons about economizing in the South like we get them in the· North.'' 
The neglect of the management to pay overtime to their employees is just one. of the financial greivances of the workers. Their hourly wage also disappoints them. 
"The money we make an hour is pretty much comparable to what's paid in the cafeterias in the area," one employee stated. "But what disturbs us is that the 
medical aid volunteers and a 
donated ambulance for anyone 
requiring them." 

The Jacees Club will also serve 
some refreshments at both star­
ting points. 

"This year is expected to be the 
biggest Bike-A-Thon that St. 
Joseph's County has ever had," 
said Leader, "with an ap­
proximated 5000 to 7000 riders. It 
goes rain or shine." 

'fhose individuals wishing to ride may obtain sponsor sheets from the area's high schools, colleges, 
Roemer talks at Walsh 
(continued from page 1) 

Roemer noted that the reason for 
the delay in reporting the latest 
incident was because he had to 
develop a policy and get it ap­
proved by all levels of the ad­
ministration. 

Roemer commented on the 
condition fo the J-Boards in light of 
the Obst>n·e•·'s recent finding that 
only four were active. 

It is a student's right to go before 
the HALL J-Board, and his option 
to go before the rector in cases of 
violation of hall rules. 

Roemer said he firmly supports 
the J-Board system and feels it is 
the student's responsibility to get 
the board elected or appomted 

When asked what action lu~ 
would take towards rectors who 
actively opposed the formation f J­
Boards Roemer replied that some 
rectors may have had a bad ex­
perience with the board inthepast, 
but if approached by students he 
felt this relationship was one they 
could sit down and talk to a rector 
about. 

Roemer also felt that if the 
students handled J-Boards well it 
could open up doors to other 
benefits. He also lauded the recent 
action of a hall J-Board in fining all 
the students in the hall who were 
involved in a recent fight. 

student workers, being part-time help, make more an hour than the line ladies. And the sudent coor­dinators, who don't do anything, are paid more than the food ser­vice workers, the ones who scrub pots and pans and clean up the place after the students leave." 
Student coordinators make $2.80 an hour, while the food service workers make $2.69 an hour. 
There has also been disapproval privately voiced over the selection of the student coordinators. Two fo them had violated the food service rules governing the use of meal cards. 
Disclosure of these violations one employer said, would not have gotten to the desk of Edmund Price. Food Service director, had not one of the checkers brought it to his attention. Once this was revealed to Price, however, the students were fined $10 each, but 
and bicycle shops. wherever there is a Bike-A-Thon poster displayed. They may also contact the American Cancer Society Office at 234-4097 for more information. 

REGAL 
LOUNGE & LANES 
BAND THIS WEEKEND 
FRIDAY THIS END UP SATURDAY DAZE 
OPEN BOWLING THIS SAT. &SUN. AFTER 8:30 P.M. 
1121 WEST 8th ST. -MISHAWAKA­
PHONE 2 

A Good Place To Be! 
When? Tomorrow (and every Fri) A chance to be with good people 
for Mass and informal supper. 
Everyone welcome -Mass at 5:15 
TOMORROW~ 
. .
; 
.'=";, 

still given their staff positions. 
"It seems extremely unfair," one student worker stated, "that the violators of food service rules should be dictating those same rules to others." 
"A full, non-food service in­vestigation should be conducted of the North Dining Hall," one em­ployee recommended. "The management of this establishment is being seriously impaired by people who are either unaware of our problems or who simply don't care." 
THE POSTER PLACE 
100 1 1 x 17 POSTERS only $10.00 

INSTY PRINTS 

203 

N. MAIN ST. SOUTH BEND 
289-6977 


Thursday, October 9, 1975 the observer 
'Most dangerous source of war' 
Soviet diplomats leave conference 
TOKYO <AP) -Soviet block 
diplomats stalked out of a ban­
quet in Peking after a top Chi­
nese official called the Soviet 
Union "the most dangerous 
source of war," the Japanese 
news agency Kyodo reported 
Tuesday. 
The denunciation was imme­
diately followed by a Chinese 
charge in People's Daily that 
the Russians have "rapid ambi· 
tions" to "swallow the whole 
globe if they could." 
The blast helped to scuttle re­
cent speculation that relations 
between the two governments 
might be on the verge of im­
provement. 
Chinese First Vice Premier 
Teng Hsiao-ping, speaking at a 
dinner Monday for visiting Yu­
goslav Premier Dzemal Bijed­
ic. lashed out at the Russians despite publication of Soviet greetings to Peking on Oct. 1 calling for normalization of re­lations and "re-establishment of friendship and cooperation." Oct. 1 was the 26th anniversary 
S.. Quad poles 
wi.ggled loose 
h~· Kathy Byrne Staff Reporter 
Campus police are questioning students and University employees about the continuing vandalism of several posts outside of Dillon Hall. 
"It's happened two or three tinws already, as far as I know," said one security official who refused to give his name. 
The posts, which are used to keep people and cars off the grass, have been pulled out of the ground over the past two weekends. 
"Evidently tthree or four students. and I'm sure they're students. get together and wiggle them out of the ground," the security official commented. 
At present Security is not overly 
concerned with the problem. Since 
the vandalism occurs at night, 
when Security is busiest, they do 
not plan to station a special patrol 
at Dillon. However, if the van· 
dalism continues they will police 
the area more frequently. 
Mock convention plans meetings 
The first of the Platform Com­
mittee meetings for the 1976 Mock. 
Convention will be held on Thur­
sday, Oct. 9 at 6:30 p.m. in room 
127 of the Niewland Science Hall. 
This meeting will be the initial 
one of a series which will consider 
the various planks after input from 
interested groups. 
Any questions should be directed 
to Rick Littlefield at 8406. 
of the Communist government China is one of the few states in China. today where propaganda of war 
Kyodo said the Soviet, Czech, is not outlawed and its leaders Hungarian, Polish, Bulgarian, are acting as trumpeters of a .East German and Mongolian world conflict," the Soviet envoys walked out of the ban­newspaper said. "Mao Tse­quet during Teng's speech. The tung's call, 'Prepare for war, representatives of North Korea, prepare for hunger,' has be­Romania, Albania, Cuba and come a legalized official pol­North and South Vietnam kept icy." 
.their seats. The People's Daily attack on 
In Moscow. Sovietskaya Ros­the Soviet Union, carried by the sia. the organ of the Commu­official Chinese news agency nist Central Committee, repeat­Hsinhua and monitored in Tok­ed charges that China is seek­yo. likened the Soviet ruling hi­ing a new world war, but it was erarchy to Adolf Hitler. thought to have been prepared "The Soviet revisionists, before Teng's speech. while running mad after arms 
·'The People's Republic of .expansion and war prepara-
Endowed chair given 
An endowed professorship will which went on to win the symbol of 
be established in the University of the world champions~ip of yacht­
Notre Dame's College of ing. Hi son Donald was part of the 
I<:ngineering by Donald J. Mat­Vim's crew and later sailed on 
thews of New York, N.Y., in Weatherly when it successfully 
memory of his father, Cpt. John N. defended the America's Cup in 
Matthews, who died in 1970. 1962. 
"The John N. Matthews Chair in The younger Matthews, a 1955 Chemical Engineering will further graduate of Notre Dame, served on t.'nhance the quality of teaching Notre Dame's College of and research in one of our most Engineering Advisory Council respected departments," said Rev. from 1967 to 1972. He was elected Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., to the University's Board of president of the University. The Trustees in 1971. He and his family College of Engineering last year reside in Rye, N.Y. observed its centennial as the oldest engineering education program at a Catholic institution .of Frosh :meet higher learning in this country. 
"The Department of Chemical 
candidates

Engineering has received national recognition." commented Dean A Meet the Candidates Forum Joseph C. Hogan of the College of for the St. Mary's freshman class Engineering, "and this chair will election will be held at 8:30 p.m. enable the continuaton of its Thursday in the St. Mary's academic excellence." Clubhouse. The forum is spon· 
Captain Matthews was a ship's sored by St. Mary's Student master who in 1929 founded his own Go'vernment. marine cargo firm in New York Nominations for class officers City, the Universal Terminal & and two freshman representatives Stevedoring Corp. He retired as to the Student Assembly close president in 1957. Friday night at midnight. The 
A leading competitor in yacht election will be held on Wed­racing, Captain Matthews was the nesday. Oct. 15. owner of Vim which competed in For further information students the 1958 America's Cup selection should contact election com­trials losing to the Columbia, missioner Cathy Carrigan at 4721. 
Theater season. opens 
The ND-SMC Theatre will open Buffalo Bill. its tenth season with INDIANS, by The cast of 35 also includes Arthur Kupit, a combination of William McGlinn as the dignified circus. vaudeville, and drama Indian Chief, Sitting Bull, and about the persecution of a whole Michael Feord <John Grass) as an race. eloquent spokesman for his fellow 
Under the direction of D. tribesmen. The play is abounding Heginald F. Bin, INHIANS will be in such folklore girues as Annie staged in Stepan Center on the Not­Oakley (Sara Paulis), Jesse James re Dame campus, Oct. 10, 11, 16, 17 <Steve Rodgers), Billy the Kid and 18 at 8 p.m. (Kevin McLean) and Geronimo 
The tale of Indian grievances is (Tim Boyle). told within the framework of a 
Student tickets are $1.50, generalWild West Show presided over by admission $2. For ticket reservat­Dan Daily, who portrays the i ns call 284-4176.

famous scout and showman, 

the plush 
George Graves 
now in the Mail Pouch Hoom
appearing 
CAPER 
(This weekend no cover charge with student I.D.) 
HAPPY HOUR Mon.-Fri. 4:00-7:30 LADIES' NIGHT Tues. 8:00-10:00 MEN'S NIGHT Thurs. 8:00-10:00 
EVERY MONDAY·REDUCED PRICES ON BEER AND BAR DRINKS 
Appropriate attire required for admittance 
PIZZAS, SNAeKS & SANDWICHES SERVED ANYTIME 
7 ft. TV screen for Monday night football. 

.........~~~...:[
7~"';coyH·E ~ADQUBaARsTEirS A w.w. 
,.-....,.. B. '~KMOR PLAZA, IRISTOL ST. (IYPASS 111) ELKHART 
tions, strike up the tune of 'de­tente' and chant 'peace' psalms" as Hitler did before in­vading Poland, it said. 
Broadening the assault, Hsinhua charged that Soviet society is plagued by graft, em­bezzlement,profiteering, prosti­tution. drunkenness, drug ad­diction and juvenile delinquen­cy. 
"The malignant development of these social evils in the So­viet Union today is the inevi­table consequence of the all­round capitalist restoration by the Khrushchev-Brezhnev clique and a manifestation of the reactionary nature, para­
~ND 
SMC 


Fore1gn 
sitism and decay of Soviet so­cial imperialism," Hsinhua de­clared. 
The average Soviet citizen consumes twice as much liquor as the average American, it continued, and every year six million to seven million Soviet' drunkards are sent to "sober­ing wards." 
China and the Soviet Union have a long-standing dispute in­volving differences over their common frontier and differ­ences over application of So· eialist doctine. China contends 
that  the  Soviet  Union  tries  to  
mix  socialism  with  Western·  
style  ''impe:·ialism."  

All Seats $2 ( STD-FAC $1.50} Season Ticket Still Available Four Plays $7.50 ($5.50 Std-Fac) Phone: 284·4176 (Bus. Hrs.) 283-7559 (Show N ites) 
Parts & accessories for imported car for all makes at lowest prices.
1Re1ion•l 
Dis! r.butor 


************************* 

:For NO Students, Faculty & Staff-~! purchase of $10 or more. * 
************************. 




10 the observer Thursday, October 9, 1975 . , 
.,.. 
. !
'· 

rSLA manuscript read 
Reasons lor Hearst kidnapping released 
\ . Ry TIM REITERMAN Associated Press Writer SAN FRANCISCO <AP) -A previously secret Symbionese Liberation Army manuscript says Patricia Hearst was kid­
' 1 naped in an attempt to force
\' the release of two captured SLA "soldiers" and to expose the wealth of the Hearst fami­ly, the San Francisco Examiner reported Wednesday. In its copyright story, the newspaper -whose president is Miss Hearst's father, Ran­dolph A. Hearst -quoted at length from documents it said were removed last month from 
Warm welcome 
Hirohito continues tour 
LOS ANGELES <AP) Japanese Emperor Hirohito flew to Los Angeles Wednes­day, where some residents of the largest Japanese-American community in the United States 
still remember being confined to West Coast internment camps during World War II. 

The 74-year-old monarch and Empress Nagako arrived at Los Angeles International Air­port late in the morning and exchanged traditional bows with California Gov. Edmund 
.I 
G. Brown Jr. and Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley. About 150 persons were on hand, many 
Insect talk to be held 
A world-renowned authority on tropical medicine and insect physiology, Dr. William Trager, will deliver the 1975 Neuwland Lectures in Biology at the University of Notre Dame Mon­day, Tuesday and Wednesday <Oct. 13-15). 
Trager, who is professor of parasitology at the Rockefeller University, New York, will speak
' 
on the topic "Parasitism and
r Symbiosis." He has made several major findings in the search for at precise understanding of the complex relationship between parasite and host. :C The lectures, scheduled '!Gr the Galvin Life Science Center auditorium at 4:30p.m., are: "Big Game and Little Circles: Trypanosomiasis in Africa," Oct. 13; "Membranes and Co-enzymes: Cell-Cell Interactions in In­tracellular Parasites," Oct. 14, and ·'Integration o(Strangers into New .Entities: Intracellular Mutualism." Oct. 15. Trager received his doctorate from Harvard University in 1933 and has spent his entire professional career at the Hockefeller. During World War II, he served as a captain in the U.S. Army Sanitary Corps, studying the ac­tion of Atabrine and quinine in the treatment of servicemen infected 

~ ' 
I. with malaria. 
He is a member of several professional organizations and has published more than 100 scientific articles and the volume Symbiosis (1970). 
.-I 
ARMANDO .FORMERLY OF ROCCO'S BARBER SHOP, IS NOW LOCATED NEAR CAMPUS TO GIVE YOU THE CUT OR STYLE THAT YOU WANT 
c;/ftmando'j, !Batbet & c:Halt ~t!JLe ~hop 
OPEN SIX DAYS A WEEK
·' 
MONDAY THRU FRIDAY 8 TO 5:30 • SATURDAY 8 TO 4 
i, 
PERSONALIZED SERVICE 
J 
I 
1437 N, IRONWOOD DR.
ARMANDO FEMIA SOUTH BEN D. IN DIANA 
<, 
PHONE 277·0615 
I 
,J \ 
.-. . \." \
'· 
(' 
the home of SLA members Em­ily and William Harris. The Ex­aminer did not exlain how it had gained access to the pa­pers. 
The newspaper said author­ities believe the SLA manu­script to be the work of several authors, perhaps collaborating on a new SLA manifesto. The documents make several refer­ences to imprisoned SLA mem­bers Russell Little and Joseph Remiro. 
"We didn't have any doubt that the Hearst family could ar­range for a release of Osceola ( Little> and Bo <Remiro), but 
waving tiny Japanese and Japanese-Americans. 
. · f I've
American flags. 0 1
"The maJonty peop e

A luncheon at the fashionable talked to are very much en-Music Center and a visit to Dis­thused about seeing the Emper­"
neyland in nearby Anaheim or said Kumanosuke Inadomi napm~ · .. were scheduled for later in the 
pr~sident of the Japanes~ Accred1· tat1·on
day. Chamber of Commerce of Airport security was tight for 
Southern California. 

Hirohito. A spokesman for the "He is the symbol of the police department said the Em­mother country," Inadomi cpn­peror was being accorded the tinued. "The oldtimers who left same security as an American Japan so or 60 years ago -this president. is the first time <for them) to 
About 20 persons marched see majesty. They want to outside the airport gates to pro­cry." test Japan's continued policy of There are between 125,000 whale hunting, but the dis­and 140,000 Japanese and Japa­senters dropped their efforts by nese-Americans in Southern the time the Emperor's plane California, most in the Los An­landed. geles area. It is the largest 
Other protests against Ja­Japanese descent population in pan's involvement with South any u.s. city and the biggest Korea were staged outside the regional grouping except for Music Center, where two sha­Hawaii. · ven-headed Buddhist monks Although most of them have were fasting and others carried achieved at least a middle signs and handed out leaflets. class standard of living, many 
Police said they · had no re­still remember being ordered ports of arrests or incidents. into concentration camps on the 
Despite the precautions and West Coast during World War the protests, leaders of the II. About 110,000 Japanese im­Japanese-American community migrants were stripped of their here said they thought Hirohito possessions and sent to the enjoyed the support of most camps. \ 
Magazine editor to speak!******* *~*****NOw OPEN 
Dr. Federick I. Herzberg, dist­
inguished professor of 
management at the University of 
Utah and contributing editor of Industry Week magazine, will discuss "Work Motivation Today" at the. first Cardinal O'Hara 
Memonal Lecture at 3:30 p.m. Monday <Oct. 13) in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
The series of talks each year honor a former dean of the College 
~~e ~~~~~~~h:~r::~~~t:':!~:nut and 
charge.

Described by the National In­dustrial Conference Board as the "top behavioral scientist today
who has most influenced the 
thinking of ~anagement," Herz­berg has published more than 100 books, monographs, articles and~ilms in. the areas of clinical and mdu.stn.al ps.ychology. Majorpublications mclude "Job Att­1tudes: Research and Opinion," ::The Motivation~ To Work" and
Work and the Naure of Man." 
The educator serves as a con­sultant' to major industrial~. 
we needed to know whether the pressure of their daughter's kidnaping would be enough to put this power into operation," said one passage of the manu­script. 
"We were f------p-----off that the pigs had our two brothers and we all made a commitment at that time to come back strong," said the document. "One of the objectives of the kidnaping was to test how much bargaining ptJWer we needed to get our comrades re­leased." 
Little and Remiro were ar­rested. near the SLA 's Concord. 
educational, social and govern-iC mental organizations throughout t-: he world, and has presented -tc seminars in 26 foreign countries in iC recent years. ' -tc A graduate of the University of t Pittsburgh, Herzberg'· has served -tc as chairman of the department of -tc psychology at Case Western iC 
Reserve University where he was -tc distinguished professor of Indust--tc rial Psychology and director of the t 
~~!~t~~t~e~~~~ram in industrial : c5~ TECERIAINLGLY-
c· I K Cl b -tc
Ire e u to • TO THE 
: ND·SMC 

· hie CO
sponsor carwas --tc M M UN ITY -tc PHONE: 259-0261 
Circle K Club will sponsor a car iC wash this Saturday between nine -tc FRf f 
~

and one at Dick's Standard Station ­across from Corby's. The club will -tc DEL/VERY 9:30 -MIDNIGHT : 
charge one dollar per car to raise -tc • • • * revenue fromcoordinating and iC (with $15.00 mtntmum purchase) * executing services in the area. 
'*••••••••••••••......•••t¥.¥¥..... fff¥¥¥¥•J 
•
•
• •
• •
•
• •
•
• •
• 
A  
u  
L  
T  


SAT, OCT. 11 8:30-5:30 SU,N, OCT 12 12 -4
• :; . •
....

• .. • 10% to 25% off our regular prices
• 
· ·· · 
•

• WEEKEND SALE 
•
• 


Featuring Braun flash, Ricoh cameras,

•
•

• Nizo movie cameras and
•

• Paterson darkroom
• 

equipment
•
• 

Product demonstrations
•
•

• by factory specialist, BRUCE WISEMAN
•
• 

Calif., hideout Jan. 10, 1974, and were convicted of murder­ing Oakland Schools Supt. Mar­cus Foster on Nov. 6, 1973. They have been transferred to Los Angeles to await trial on charges stemming from a later shootout in Concord. 
The Examiner said the docu­ments covered 175 to 200 pages and range from intellectual statements of revolutionary phi­losophy to coarse indictments of the ruling class. Included were some personal histories of several SLA members and ac­counts of some major SLA ac­tions, the newspaper said. 
One section covered the Feb. 4, 1974, kidnaping of Miss Hearst from her Berkeley apartment and events that fol­lowed. 
Only the first two sentences of the passage were quoted in an FBI inventory released Fri­day. But the newspaper quoted
this portion, which the SLA ap­par~nt!y wrote after the kid-
e t d d
X en e 

Accreditation of the Department of Architecture at the University of Notre Dame was formally ex­tended recently to July 1980 by the National Architectural Accrediting Board <NAABL The NAAB is responsible for professional visit­ation and accreditation of such programs nationally. 
The professional architectural program leading to the bachelor's degree underwent full ac­creditation review in 197o-71; the visiting committee noted several program strengths and recom­mended changes to minimize program weaknesses. 
In November 1974, an interim visiting committee found that all of the ~uggestions had been acted upon and recommended that the department be accredited "in view of the progress made in ad­ministrative and program development since the visit in 1970­71." 
* 

WE CATER FOR ~
* 

VICTORY PARTIES *
*
* 
* 

KEG BEER ~
* 
( ) * 

(IN S T 0 K * 
_A W A y GAMES ~ 
* 

wE CATER FOR !" 
;:
BUS TRIPS 
H *: 
0 U R S : * 
MON SAT * 
* 
"Would the ruling class risk revealing the extent of their in­fluence in order to save one of their members? 
"Our demand for a good faith gesture showed us clearly that Randolph Hearst couldn't even meet the simple demands in or­der to get his daughter back, that he tried to create a public image of himself as weak and ineffectual, just a cut above the average citizen. 
"Hearst offered a few crumbs of food to some of Cali­fornia's poor people and ex­pected everyone to sympathize with him. Actually, he had de­cided to gamble with his daugh­ter's life in an attempt to keep the mass of people ignorant of his total wealth and power." 


FRIDAY-SATURDAY MIDNIGHT SHOW 


Emergency shelters Thur~ay, October 9, 1975 the observer 
ND grad designs cardboard house of future 
Jack DeLine's dreamhouse is made of cardboard. 
The 1961 Notre Dame engineering alumnus envisions a basic building module ·which is cheap. durable, and adaptable. I­ts greatest potential use may be as an emergency shelter for victims of natural disasters such as tornadoes, floods and earthquakes, but such shelter also could be modified, expanded and made permanent by people in un­derdeveloped countries. 
For emergencies, the cardboard, or fiberboard, house might be just one part of a self-contained life support system including a solar stove for cooking and baking and for purifying drinking water, plus grain and water storage bins, all made of corrugated board. 
In legendary Atlantis 
Cousteau searches fortreasures 
ATHENS <AP) Jacques Cousteau, often described as a modern underwater Odysseus, will start scanning the Greek seas this month in search of lost treasures and the legen­dary city of Atlantis. 
The world-renowned explorer told newsmen Tuesday that a recent agreement with Greek archaeological authorities fore­sees filming of the Aegean islands seabeds which will cul­minate in· a submarinedescent near the island of Thira into the sunken crater which many believe to be devastated At­lantis. 
The project is mainly funded by the Greek government. The film series will be entitled "In Search of Atlantis" and "Medi­terranean Treasures" and dis­tributed to major televion net­works. 
"We may produce a great 
'Devilish' talk highlights ~nediaeval conference 
Dr. Jeffrey B. Russell, professor will follow at 3:30p.m. and director of the Mediaeval Delegates to the annual con­Institute at the University of Notre ference will attend informal Dame. will present a talk, "The sessions Friday evening COct. 10) Devil." at a meeting of the Mid-before the full schedule of west Mediaeval Conference at 2 Saturday meetings. 
p.m. Saturday in the Center for Dr. Richard Kay, president, Continuing Education. University of Kansas, will preside 
An illustrated talk on at conference sessions, and Dr. "Manuscripts of the Ambrosian Charles T. Davis, Tulane Library" by Dr. Astrik L. Gabriel, University, will speak on the topic, director emeritus of the institute, "Republicanism, Pride and 
• Prejudice," at a 7 p.m. dinnerBergln elected to meeting Saturday. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
THE T.IME IS COMING 
SO MARK YOUR CALENDAR. 
OKTOBERFEST '75 
Wed. Oct. 15 
Thurs. Oct. 16 
I Watch For 

More 
Details... 

advisory council 
Dr. Thomas P. Bergin, dean of continuing education at the University of Notre Dame, has been elected to membership on the Indiana Real Estate Advisory Coui1cil. The appointment was accounced by the group's president, Dr. Arthur M. Weimer of the graduate school of business at Indiana University. 
Goals of the council are to develop and implement long term plans for continuing education programs in the real estate in­dustry and allied areas, and to be concerned with educating the real estate consumer through ~·ducation programs. 
The group seeks to improve programs available to real estate consumers, provide an annual review of achievements, and to encourage institution to develop research as needeed ·by the council.. 
Board members include educat­ors, real estate commission and association members, mortgate bankers, developers, builders and 
others engaged in the housing 
industry. 
Owner  and  president  of  An­ 
jomark  Research  Company  in  
Denver,  DeLine  also  owns  a  

corrugated board company there. Anjomark supports the fiberboard housing project. 
"Our basic premise," says DeLine, "is that no other building material can be produced at such large volume and low cost as cellulose fiber. Paper is a com­modity basic to every county, and hundreds of coatings-from cem~nt to fiberglass to latex paint-have already been developed. Now its' a matter of pulling existing technologies together. We want to develop the technology to the point where it's usable with any native type of board, whether it's made from bamboo, straw, sugar cane stalks, 
number of astonishing anti­quities from our exploration of the Aegean Sea, or on the other hand very little," Cousteau said. "But we will undoubtedly 
reveal  information  leading  to  a  
better  understanding  of  the  re­ 
gion's  famed  civilization."  
The  Aegean  Sea  is  believed  
strewn  with  valuable antiquities  

from sunken ships belonging to varied civilizations which fell victim to storms, local wars or piracy. 
"Marine and geological stud­ies will hopefully help us draw radical conclusions on the ex­tent of the obviously flourishing civilization in the devastated area and whether it was actual­ly linked to the legendary At­lantis." he said. 
The mysterious scattering of volcanic islands centers around the popular island of Santorini, also known as Thira, 140 miles or others." pieces and brochures. Other Notre 
DeLine has been experimenting Dame students are involved in with structural designs, researching and writing reports developing production technology and brochures about the world and working out delivery systems; housing situation, cultural housing he expects the first houses to be in needs. and the potentials of use within the year. fiberboard hosing. 
In Notre Dame's Department of About 15 relief agencies-amongArchitecture, students are working them. Catholic Relief Agencies,with fiberboard supplied by International Red Cross, DeLine to learn its structural UNESCO. Osfam, United Nations capabilities and limitations. They Disaster Relief. CARE, World have been searching for con­Council of Churches-as well as nectors which can be used without­the U.S State Department have tools and designing structures requested information from which can be readily modified DeLine, who says that some plan to 
from a simple tent-like shelter to a begin testing the structures. large house-like dwelling. For instance, Catholic Relief 
One architect•Jre student also Agencies, he says, plans to build has been drawing schematic some houses in several different diagrams and illustrations for areas to test both the structures assembly instructions, display and the people's reaction to them. Most of the interest was generat­ed about two years ago when 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
southeast of Athens. Archae­ologists theorize that great 
WANTED

eruptions took place around 2,­000 B.C. which put an end to 
Nee-d 4 GA USC ticke-ts. Call Gt!'Orge-, 
3651.

the Minoan civilization there. 
Several devastating earth­
Neeodeod: Two GA So. Cal. tix's.
quakes have taken place since 
Please call John at 3467. 

then. the last one to cause any 
Neeod ridt> to Clevt>land Oct. 10. Call
damage in 1956. 
Robin, 5488.

The ruins of Thira have been systematically unearthed since 
Two girls desperat~ly need ride to Chicago this Friday or Saturday.
t'arly this century. The most 
Call Mary at 4438 or 4537.

striking finds were made in re­
Need riders FROM Milwaukee.
cent years by Greek arch­
Leave Sunday. Call 3388, 1715, AI.
Pologist Spyros Marinatos, who was killed in an accident while 
Surprise! I don't need tickets. Desperately need a motel room in
working on the site earlier this 
South Bend Area. Oct 24 & 25. Call 
year. By then he had claimed 
Beth, 5242. 
to have found Atlantis. 

Need 2 Beach Boy tix's. Call John
Cousteau says he has no new 
1800.

theory on whether the military, trading and religious center of 
Need lots of Navy GA tix's. Don 3755. ' 
Atlantis did indeed exist and fell victim to the eruptions, but 
Would like Beach Boy tickets in first 
few rows. Will pay... Call Tim or 
Chris at 272-1400. 

he plans to pick up from exist­ing theories. 
"With this information we 
Need used Hockey Equipment. Call 
Tom 234-8858.

can very shortly begin under­
water research around the 
Need DESPERATELY ride to 
coast of Santorini and inside 
Chicago Fri. Can leavt> at 2. Call Mary, 4438, 4537 or 1715.
the volcano's sunken crater," he said. The explorer said pic­
Desperately neoed ride to Cincinnati, 
tures around the crater had 
on Oct. 10. Will share driving and expenses. Call Betsy, 284-5347.
been taken as early as 1963, re­\'ealing crystal-like slopes em­
Need 3 USC tickets. Call Mike after 
6 pm, 288-0088.
bedded with fish fossils. 

Cousteau said the operation 
Desperately nee-d ride to Dayton,
will involve his entire crew and 
Ohio. Weekend of Oct. 17. Lisa 4634. 
fleet of minisubmarines and 
Need ride to Milwaukeee <or Chi.)
batyspheres carrying the most 
on Oct. 10 or Oct. 12. Will share
advanced electronic equipment. 
expenses. Call Cindy 5486. 

The main vessel, the Calypso, 
Wanted: One ticket to any home
left the United States last week 
game. Call John 1620.

and is expected in Greek wa­ters next week. 
Desperately need tow Southern Cal tix's. Call Bob 3665.
Cousteau said work is ex­pected to finish by July. 
Desperately need ride to Pittsburgh on Oct. 17. Will share expenses. Please call Michele at 277-1567. 
Desperately need 1 USC ticket. Will 
pay well. Call Mark 1474. 

Wanted: 2 So. Cal tix's. Call Ruth 6173. 
Needed: 2 GA tix's tor Ga. Tech game. Call Lisa, 8089. 
Need two GA USC fix's. Will pay unlimited COORS and-or ss. Joe 6701 or 6795. 
Desperately need USC tix's. Will 
pay well. 7937, please. 

Desperately need 2 or 4 USC GA tickets. Call 4438. 
I still need So. Cal tix. Please call Mary at 4-4093. 
Help!! Need 2 GA tix to Georgia' Tech. Call Jim, 1188. 
Need four GA tix's for Ga. Tech game. Call 4-5740. 
Would YOU like to beo held responsible for my loss of parental financial assistance? PLEASE sell me your USC "ticket!! Lisa 1297. 
Riders needed to Cleveland. Oct 17, Tim 8953. 
Need help of engineering student or port. in development of simple in­vention. Call Mario Rivera, 7735 or 36, leave meossage. 
Need S GA Navy tix's. Call 5168. 
Wanteod: Need 5 or 6 GA USC fix's. Call Mary Beth, 1285. 
Desperately need ride to Neenah, WI, Oct 17. Call Ron 3374. 
DeLine and his wife Anne set up a demonstration village in Rome during the first International 
Stewardship Conference, where th~y also presented a paper. 
Next May, he will set up another village at the UN Habitast Con­ference. to be held in Vancouver, British Columbia, and the UN has asked him to build a permanent display in Geneva, Switzerland, the site of many international conferences. 
DeLine's dream does not include cornering the world's fiberboard housing market. His intention is to make the technology available and encourage everyone who is willing to implement his ideas. He even foresees economic fruits for countries which may begin to develop their own corrugated com pan ies-:nafive industry producing a nation's housing. 
Help wanted: Male or Femalt>: Addreoss e-nvelopeos at homeo. $800 per month, possible-. See ad under this. Triple "S". 
Business Opportunity: Addre-ss envelopes at homeo. S800 peor month, possibbleo. Offer-dt>tails, Seond S.SO <reofundablel to: Tripleo "S", 699-C36, Highway 138, Pinion Hills, CA 92372. 
FOR  SALE  
GE  Cassette  player  with  built-in  
mic.  and  AM-FM  radio,  plus  3  

cassettes included: Chicago( V Ill l. Elton John(Yellow Brick Road) Moody Blues (Seventh Sojourn). $6'\ Call 1541. 
Quality Stereo Components at 20 percent savings. RMS Audio, 321 Main, 288-1681, 12-7 pm. 
For Sale: 1 ND jacket-blue with golr sleeves.. 287-5218, Bryan. 
FOR RENT 
To rent: Large room in student's house near Corby's: 618 St. Peter St .. $60 per month, all charges in eluded. 
"Rent my upstairs, 2rooms, $50, 233­1329, keep trying." 
Exceptional room, no J<>mokeors,; Breakfast privilt>ges, near bus. Call: 232-8838. I 
NOTICES 1 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. 
Junior League Thrift Shop. Over 30,000 iteoms. New and used clothing, furniture, housewares, etc. 4-H Fair Grounds. Sat, Oct 11, 9 am . S pm. Free parking & admission. 
Quick Loans. Morrissey Loan Fund. Up to $150, 30 days 1 percent in­terest. Basement of LaFortune, M. F, 11:15-12:15. 
Greyhound Bus to Chicago.. Leave ~ Min Circle 4:45 Friday;; Call Tom ' 8338 for info before midnight~ Thursday. 

Typing. Former executive secretary, experienced in Senic Pssays, dissertations. 232-5715. 
Now open for business. Flanne Records. 807 Flanner. Phone 148P 

R~>cords . lnstock and on order. A new $6.98 LP's for $4.55 Ne•. Allman Bros. Edgar Winter, Ma shall Tucker, Crosby Nash, Je ferson Starship, Jethro Tull. 
LOST & FOUND 

Lost: Man's gold ring with bl<; onyx setting. lost between D-1 a· Noth Dining all. Reward, call 33 
Found: Silver bracelet with nar "Vicki." Call Bryan 287-5218. 

Lost: gold bracelet in vicinity library, INickie's CORBY'S. C 7871. 
Lost: '77 class ring Friday O'Shag. Reward. Call 1079. 
Lost: black plastic 3-ring bind• containing organic chemistr handouts. If found, call 7975. 
PERSONALS 

Dearest Elessar, Galadrieol Greens with envy upc. you arrival. Good to see you agair 
LOV• 
The Greoy Pilgri. 

9C:Double D is alive and well Camden. 
PATRICIA FLYNN! Yes, this is fc,r you! Happy Birthday, Kiddo. Set> you soon! 
f• 

Jeonnifeor and Margie, Our pleasureo... but did you kn • we got raped on the way home! Butch & Sundu" 
-
r. 
12 the observer 

by Fred Herbst "We're making progress, but obviously I'm not satisfied because we didn't win last Saturday." 
The Notre Dame offensive line is This year's line is not as making mistakes. physically strong as many Irish While mistakes are never per­lines have been in the past. "We're missible, Brian Boulac, offensive not nearly as strong straight ahead line coach, feels that the problems as in the past. We're not powerful of the line are justified in view of enough to blow people off the line. the inexperience of his players. Our strength is our mobility," said 
"Overall we're very inex­Boulac. 
perienced. When we started the This is one of the reasons that year. only AI Wujciak was a Notre Dame has been running starter with any real experience," more sweeps and fewer plays into Boulac said. the line. "The secret to being a "Early in the year we had a new good offensive football team is 
system and we weren't working doing what you do well. You must together, but now we do things out execute your opponent ," fairly well," he added. stated Boulac. 
Co-captain Ed Bauer agreed To further complicate matters saying, "Obviously our biggest the offensive line is working with problem is just time and ex­two players at new positions. perience. We just have to get used Steve Quehl, making a comeback to each other, but each week we're from a serious accident, has getting better and better." moved from tackle to center. 
The Irish start Ed Bauer and Pat Ernie Hughes has moved from the Pohlen at the tackles, AI Wujciak defensive line to guard. Both are 
J com­
'' and Ernie Hughes at the guards still working to become and Steve Quehl at center. All are fortable at their new positions. 
seniors except for Hughes, a Quehl missed all of last season sophomore. due to his accident and Hughes 
Offensive line coach Brian Boulac had a large
As indicated by the fact that the didn't see any playing time on Only Guard AI Wuiciak returned from last year's 
offense. Pat Pohlen saw limited rebuilding iob facing him at the beginning of the 
starting lineup.
Notre Dame offense gained over 
season.

action in a reserve role last season
300 yards against a strong listed as probable for North -With sev~n regular season "This past week was our biggest
and Ed Bauer startedfour games.
Michigan State defense last Carolina. games left, Boulac is encouraged test and wecameoutOK. We didn't
AI Wujciak is the only starter
weekend, the offensive line is Boulac pointed out that ' We're by his offensive line. "It can only score but we pushed the ball up
returning from last year.

basically sound. inexperienced as far as backups get better," he claims. and down the field against a fine
Injuries have also been a
"We have to eliminate the little go, our backups are really young. "We were Mr. Nobodies at the defense. From a psychological
problem for the offensive line.
mental and physical errors," said Hopefully we can get them some beginning of theyearand each week view point. we proved that we can
Starting tackle Pat Pohlen has
Boulac. "They really aren't that playing time soon." we've improved," said Bauer. do the job."
been sidelined with a bad ankle,great. it's just that they come at 
but is expected to play agaunstcrucial times." 
North Saturday.
"The biggest problems we need Carolina on 
Harry 'Woebkenberg, Pohlen 's
to correct are the mental break­
World Series 
Saturday
replacement, injured his back
downs that keep us from making against Michigan State. He isthe big play," commented Bauer. 
by Rich Odioso Concepcion does both better best starter in the Series. The though and can steal besides. He is others -Boston's Bill Lee, RogerThe most refreshing thing about a deadly clutch hitter and a long Moret and Reggie Cleveland and
Alu:rnni. Pangborn \1/in: 
the upcoming World Series is that ball threat aganist lefties. Cincinnati's Gary Nolan, Fred for the first time since 1968 the fans EIH:E-the Reds. 
Norman and Jack Billingham are 
in the American League city are 
basically competant but not baf­
Dillon ties Off-Cantpus 
worthy of the event. Baltimore TIIIIU> RASE -Rico Pertocelli fling.
and Oakland have hosted the event and Pete Rose are both adequate
by Ray O'Brien In the bullpen the Reds quartet
bomb to spilt end Len Moty, who three times each over the last six fielders. Petrocelli has a knack 
.~. Clay Carroll, Pedro Borbon and 
took it 76 yards for a score. The years and never has the fervor in for lifting semi-clutch shots over 
rookie Will McEnaney and Rawly
extra point was missed and the those places even remotely ap­the Moster while Rose becomes a 
Eastwick -is deep and skilled.
The second week of "Wednesday score sttood 6-0 in favor of O.C. proached the rampent intensity dangerous home run man in post­The entire Boston pen isNight Football" saw Alumni and Dillon's offense could not sustain tnat will consume Boston and season action. Ask Harry Parker, questionable but Dick Drago stood 
Pangborn post wins, while Dillon a drive due to numerous fumbles. Cincinnati this week. Tom Seaver and John Candalaria. 
up well against the A's and Diego 
and Off-campus played to a 6-6 tie. Finally an O.C. fumble gave Dillon The off-the-field atmosphere at Rose is healthier and more 
Segui is a veteran. EDGE -VeryThe constant drizzle kept Cartier the ball on Off-campus' '1:1 yard this year's series figures to be conistent. EDGE-the Reds. 
close. Wise gives the Red Sox
field slippery which led to three line. Halfback Mick Gleason and unsurpassed in the history of theg better starting but the Reds have 
error filled games. quaterback Bill Griffin took it the game. The play on the field may OtlTFIELD-From left to right better relief.distance on the ground as Griffin also rival the best in baseball Carl Yastrzemski, Fred Lynn and swept right for 8 yards and a annals. Certainly all the elements Dwight Evans are the perfect RENCII -Bernie Carbo, Juan 
t\LUMNI8 HOWARD-ST. ED'S 6 touchdown. Dillon also missed t­are present for a classic con­defensive outfield for Fenway Beniquez and Bob Montgomery heir extra point conversion. The frontation. withtheir sure gloves and rocket are on call for Boston while the 
Alumni took it to , Howard on the Reds have Danny Driessen, Terry
game ended in a 6-6 tie as Dillion The two teams position-by­arms. Juan Beniquez and Rick .opening set of plays as fullback kicker Tom Holoroyd, fell short on position: Miller have good gloves also. Crowley and Rettenmund. About 
Mike Squillace broke away for a 65 ('Ven.
a 39 yard field goal attempt. At more spacious Riverfront the 
yard touchdown run. The defense 
CATCHER-Johnny Bench is the speedy Cincinnati trio of George
matched the offense allowing INTANGIBLES -Rettenmund
PANGBORN 18 MORRISSEY 6 best defensive catcher in baseball Foster. Cesar Geronimo and Ken
Howard only one first down in the and Crowley may be the only Reds
but his batwork in post-season Griffey will have the defensive
first half. Lineman Angelo ever to see Fenway Park much
action has never been especially edge. It will be interesting to see
Bufalino sacked Howard quar­Pangborn completely dominated less play in it. The Reds may take
noteworthy. Carlton Fisk is a fine how Foster responds to the
terback Tom Bruggeman for an Morrissey in a game that saw awhile to adjust to baseball ­
defender with a good arm. He challenge of the left-field fence. No .
eight yard loss and a safety giving Pangborn take control early in the Fenway style. 
should slow down the Red base matter how well he plays it we · 
Alumni an s-o lead. first quarter and never let up. The Likewise the Red Sox will have
stealers but he'll need help from wwiJI suffer in comparison to
Howard came right back on the defense was superb as they set up to acclimate the all-Astroturf
his pitchers to stopthem. Fisk's Yastrzemski. The Reds have a to 
opening set of downs in the second two touchdowns and scored the infield of Riverfront.
hitting has been robust since his decent hitter with American
half with a 65 yard touchdown third. Tony Miller picked off a Tim 
return from injury and he seems to League experience, Merv Ret­
drive. Quarterback Bruggeman Puntarelli pass and ran it back 22 Boston's adjustment should be
repons to pressure. EDGE-a tenmund, on the bench. If Bill Lee 
capped the drive with a 7 yard yards to the 26 yard line. The of­easier. Both teams have rabid
thin one to the Reds. or Roger Moret start in Fenway he
touchdown score. Howard fense took over from there home fan support and capable
as may replace Geronimo with Foster 
capitlized on a roughing the kicker running backs Steve Thomas and managers.
FIRST BASI<:-Cecil Cooper was a moving to center. I
penalty which gave them the second J .J. Dematai pounded out the The Reds 108 victories may not
revelation to the Red Sox down the Yastrzemski is notorious in the
life to score. Missing the two point yardage for the score. . . Dematai clutch and Lynn agter his mar-be that important. Five other
stretch as the designated hitter. conversion proved to be the clin­was credited with the touchdown He sould play first in the Series velous rookie year had a fine teams have won 105 games or 
cher as the score stayed 8-6 to the as he dove in from the two. with Yastrzemski in left. He has playoff. Foster is inconsistent, more since 1945. Three <the 1953 end. Morrissey handed'the ball over Brooklyn Dodgers, the 1954 Indians
earned a reputation as a clutch albeit occasionally awesome, at 
and the 1969 Orioles) lost the World 
again as they fumbled at their own hitter and is a good glove at first. theplate. Geronimo's best success 
Series. The other two <the 1961
DILLON ,6 OFF-CAMPUS 6 34 yard line. This time Thomas The Reds Tony Perez has had his against lefties comes when he 
scored on aplunge from the 1 yard reputation for clutch hitting much closes his eyes. Griggey and Yankees and the 1970 Orioles) had Dillon's interhall dynasty seems line. lonter. A streak hitter, Perez was Evans both have great potential. the advantage of playing the Reds. 
to have come to an end. After The Pangborn defense went to hot in the playofffs. EDGE -The The Red has the edge in speed and This obscure footnote doesn't 
losing Sunday, tonight they barely work again in the second half. average, Evans the adv;mtage in prove anything but it does indicate 
Reds. 

Late in the third quater, J.J regular season success does not
~ squeeked out a 6-6 tie with Off­power and arm. EDGE-A clear a
campus in an error-filled game. Dematai picked off a pass and took advantage to Boston in left and always make a world campion
SECOND BASE-Will the real 
world champion.
Bob Zerk gave Dillon a scare in it 45 yards for his second t­Denny Doyle please stand up? center, a toss-up in right. the opening minutes as he returned ouchdown of the game. This gave With the Phillies and Angels Doyle PITCHING -The fireballing PREDICTION-In seven games a punt 63 yards for a touchdown, Pangborn an 18-Q lead which was strictly good field-no hit byt young left-bander Don Gullett of -the Reds. MVP-Pete Rose. but it was called back because of a proved to be more than enough. this summer his bat has gone the Reds will confront the craftyclipping penalty. That was about Morrissey finally got something berserk. But the clock is about to Veteran right-hander Luis Tiant in 
• all the excitement in the first half going with four minutes left in the strike midnight on Doyle's Cin­the first game of the series. This Today is last day as stingy defenses allowed only game as quarterback Tim Pun­derella season. It will be sur­match-up figures to be repeatedfour first downs between both t­tarelli went to the air. Three prising if he hits .225. On the other t woice more if the Sriens goes 'lor Hockey tix 
eams while neither team crossed connections to wide receiver Jeff hand there is no doubt about the seven games. Lokk for Tiant to midfield. Carepenter did the damage to set real Joe Morgan. Morgan can do have the edge in the opener with Today is the last day for students Late in the third quarter up the score. It was too late as more things well than any player his beweildering variety of pitches to purchase season hockey tickets. 
Off-campus quaterback John Pangborn ran out the clock for the in the game. EDGE-a large one but the Reds may catch up with The ti~kets which will be sold on a 
' Lonsberg was injured on a fumble 18-6 win. Morrissey's offense to the Reds. him later on. The Green Moster first come, first served basis, will play and had to leave the game. committed nine turnovers (7 SHORTSTOP -Rich Burleson of may bother Gullett at first but he be onsale from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. at Marc Clark came in to replace him fumbles, 2 interceptions) which led the Sox is a fine fielder and a sould get better in later games. the ticket window on the second and on his first play connected on a to their downfall. decent hitter. The Reds' Dave Rick Wise of the Sox is the next floor of the ACC. 




