OD The Inside 
LaFortune Renovation page 3 
Right to Life Mass ••.page 5 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Wednesday, January 22, 1975
Vol. IX, No. 64 
Opening date indefinite 
Loan requested for food co-op 

Don Reimer Staff Reporter 
Student Body President Pat McLaughlin yesterday requested a $12,000 loan from the University to be used in establishing an off-eampus food co-op. The proposal was distributed to the officers of the University Wednesday by Bro. Just Paczesny, Vice­President for Student Mfairs. 
"I wouldn't want to set a definite date for the co-op toopenbecallSe there still too many variables involved," McLaughlin said. "Until we're really definite, I woUldn't want to speculate." 
Concerning repayment of the loan, McLaughlin commented, "We had hoped for a reasonable amount of money and we hope to pay it back in a reasonable fashion." Four possible sites were mentioned for the co-op, including two on LaSalle street and one on State Road 23. 
An arrangement similar to that of the Senior Bar and the Alumni Club will be employed. The Senior Club has been taken over thisyearby the office for Student Affairs and is run by student managers. 
Not only will the co-i>ps sell food, but they will also carry clothes, records and toiletries. The revenue from these extra items will be used to compensate for the low mark-up on the food. 
The co-ops will not sell books and it was emphasized that they are not planning to compete with the bookstore. . 
Paczesny stressed that the plan which be presented to the officers was only preliminary. "I delivered copies of a precise proposal to several of the officers for their consideration." he stated. "There was no discussion of the plans at all." 
"A fuller and more. complete presentation will be made by Pat McLaughlin and those involved sometime in the future," Paczesny commented. He said that no date has been set for the more elaborate oresentation. 
1Jnfair to oommuters' 

Ford to veto mandatory gasoline rationing 
WASHINGTON <UPD-President Ford said Tuesday he will veto a mandatory gasoline rationing program if the Democratic Congress passes it instead of his program to curtail energy consumption by driving fuel prices higher. 
Ford said gasoline rationing would have to stay in effect for five to 10 years, would limitmotoriststo about nine gallons of gasoline a week and would be unfair to commuters and rural Americans. 
"There is no easy solution and I never promised one," the President said at a nationally televised and broadcast news conference in which he defended his economic and energy programs against congressional 
Paczesny also commented concerning the feasibility of establishing a co-op." 'i'rie co-op has great possibilities if run well," he observed, "but the question is if they can run it solely on volunteer services." 
Ar.'lther question raised by Paczesny dealt with whether a co-op could save the students substantial amounts on their food costs. "Will a co-op help students save costs more than very careful buying in the local stores?" Paczesny questioned. 
Finally, Paczesny cited the problem of maintaining a mark-up on food which is lower than the stores. "Can a co-op keep a lower mark-up than the stores?" he queried. "I think it can." 
Stan Cardenas, Off-Campus Commissioner, stressed the huge amount of work and research carried out last semester by a special committee appointed to investigate the possibility of a co-op. 
"ft•s a long; involved process and I've had a committee working all semester on the establishment of a co-op and the technicalities involved," Said Cardenas. "Since the food hand-out program at Stepan Center failed, a committee has been investigating such areas as wholesalers and possible locations." 
When asked for specific details concerning the establishment of the co-op, Cardenas stated, "Until we have something definite, I don't think we should speculate." "We still have several possibilites open and we have to research and explore them before we release the final details," Cardenas explained. · 
Cardenas also commented on The Observer editorial Tuesday which criticized the lack of action on the co-i>p by Student Government. ''I thought that the Editorial Board was irresponsible in making their comment," Cardenas said. "I really feel sorry for the guys who have been working bard all semester on the co-op." 
In reply to The Observer charge of unfulfilled promises, Cardenas stated, "The only promise we made was to work on and research the co-op and we have put much work into it all semester." 
Ford has proposed $12 billion in income tax rebates on 1974 earnings and a permanent reduction· in income tax rates along with a series of tariffs and excise taxes which would raise the price of gasolin.e, heating oil and electircity by $30 billion a year. 
Ford said he would issue a proclamation this week to impose a $1 tariff on all oil imported after Feb. 1 despite an attempt by Sens. Henry M. Jackson, D­Wash., and Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., to block it for 'so days. 
He concededr he was "horrified" to find himself proposing deficits of $30 billion and $45 billion for the current and next fiscal year but contended they were vital to stem the recession. The President predicted the economy would stage a "turnaround" by mid­summer. 
On other matters Ford: 
-Said the United States reserved the right to go to war to protect itself from "strangulation" by the Arab bloc just as any nation holds the right "to protect itself against death." But another embargo comparable to the 1973 Arab oil embargo "certainly" would not constitute "strangulation," he said. 
-Gave assurances he would ask congress for a 
declaration of war before comitting troops to force in 
the Mideast in such an event. He said the entire 
question is "hypothetical." 
-Refused to rule out the possibility that he might 
respond to events in Vietnam by ordering a resumption 
of U.S. bombing raid there. • He said it would be 
inappropriate for him to speculate on that matter but 
added he did not "foresee at the moment" any such 
possibility, and promised to follow "constitutional and 
legal procedures" before taking any action. 
-Said he would press Congress, despite his 
moratorium on new spending programs, to provide 
$300 million in additional aid to bolster the morale and 
the security of South Vietnam. He said Saigon's troops 
were defending themselves against the Communists 
"skillfully and with firmness." 
-Defended his decisions to raise the cost of food 
stamps to the poor and to seek to convince Congress to 
hold the size of this year's Social Security increase to 5 
insteaa of the approximately 9 per cent that would 
otherwise be paid 30 million retired, dependent or 
widowed beneficiaries. He said such economies are 
needed as part of "a total effort in-this country to 
combat inflation."' 
-Characterized as "very serious" the military 
situation in the Middle East, but defended the U.S. sale 
of sophisticated weapons there. He said it was im­
portant "to maintain the military balance on both 
sides." 

-Said he did not want Congress to give him authority 
to control prices, profits and wages even ifhis proposed 
energy taxes reignite inflation. "The free economy 
over the years has proven to be the bestanswe~" he 
said. \ 
-Called "restrictive amendments"-such as those 
which caused the Kremlin to renounce the U.S.-Soviet 
trade agreement-"harmful to a president in the 
execution of foreign policy." But he said detente "will 
be continued, broadened and expanded" despite the 
setback. Relaxed and ready, the President spoke 
forcefully in defense of the sweeping economic 
program he laid before Congress a w~ek earlier. He said all alternatives-including those now being ad­vancea by Democrats-hal;!. been considered and rejected because of their weaknesses in the "nmst comprehensive review in this nation's histo~" of its energy situation. 
Ford said the nation's security dictated that it free itself of its need for foreign oil-a trend which, he said if left unchecked, would make America dependent on others for half its petroleum by 1985. 
Challenging Democrats, Ford said if they believe . rationing is preferable to price increases his program envisions, they should not rest with merely giving him authority to impose it-they should make it mandatory. 
But he said later in reponse to a question he would veto so "superficial" a solution. 
Ford's program calls for raising the price of gasoline by about six cents a gallon through actions he intends to take with authority he already enjoys, and to 10 cents through excise taxes he has asked Congress to impose. 
The $1 tariff Ford said he would impose Feb. 1 on imported oil is to rise to $2 on March 1 and to $3 on April 1--unless by then Congress has enacted a $2 per barrel tax on all oil, imported and domestic. 
Ford also intends to remove price controls on the approximately 60 per cent of U.S. oil productionwhose price is held down to $5.25 per barrel. This would let all domestic oil rise to about $11 per barrel. 

ford: Proposed .$12 billion In .Income tax rebates on 1974 
2 
warld b,-iefs 
LAS VEGAS <UPI>-Zsa Zsa Gabor and the next door neighbor 
who kept her awake at night playing with his fire engine obtained a 
marriage license Tuesday and chose a hotel for the wedding in­
stead of his tree house. 
It will be Miss Gabor's sixth marriage. The wedding will take 
place Tuesday night. 
STUTTGART, Germany <UPI>-Gen. Alexander Haig's dog Duncan is half beagle and half dachsund. And when American 
G.l.s saw the mutt being transported in an army sedan with a uniformed chauffeur they were outraged. 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. <UPI)-Leonard Ross, 29, winner of televisions' $64,000 Question when he was 11 years old, was ap­pointed Tuesday to the California Public Utilities Commission by Gov. Edmund G. Brown, Jr. 
ROME <UPI>-Lazlo Toth, still proclaiming himself to be the son of God and unrepetent for smashing Michelangelo's masterpiece Pieta with a hammer nearly three years ago, waited in Rom Tuesday for an airline brave enough to fly him out of Italy. 
Toth, a Hungarian-born Australian, ended two years in an asylum for the criminally insane and was ordered deported to Australia. 
WASHINGTON <UPI>-Director Clarence Kelley acknowledged Tuesday the FBI keeps records of all information it obtains on congressmen, but said the files never were used to intimidate them or influence "judgment or actions." 
Rep. Don Edwards, D-Calif., said that 11 months ago Kelley appeared before a congressional subcommittee and "completely denied...the existence of personal or political files on members of Congress." 


an campus taday 
4:15 pm--semlnar, "using current publications In the classroom" by prof. ken mllanl, board room, hayes-healy center. 
4:30 pm--colloquium, "core excited autolonlzlng states of the alkalis" by prof. d.j. pegg, 118 nieuwland science. 
5 pm--vespen, evening, log chapel. 
6:30 pm--meeting, sailing club, 204 eng., all members should at­tend. 
7:30pm--swim meet, oakland university v. nd, rockne memorial. 
7:30pm--american scene, registration and orientation, carrot hall. 
8:15pm--concert, carlos sanchez, classical and flamenco guitar, $2, library auditorium, 

Committee of U.S. clergy sanctions charismatics 
WASHINGTON <UPI) -A key committee of bishops Tuesday gave its blessing to the Roman Catholic charismatic movement and suggested it could be compared with the Second Vatican Council as "one of the great manifestations of the <Holy) Spirit in our times 
" 
The charismatic gifts healing, prophecy, speaking in tongues -usually are associat­ed with fundamentalist Protes­
tantism. But in recent years there has been a growing charismatic movement in main­line Protestant churches such as the Lutheran Church and among Roman Catholics. 
The statement said the charismatic renewal movement "has to have a strong bond with the total life of the Church," and it praised the openness of members of the movement with those who are 
not a part of it.


,,.,,,,,,",,,.,,,,,,,"'",,,,,,,",.,.,.,""''"""'"""'''"'''"''<''''''''""'""'"''"'"""'"''1 
a

I MICHIGAN STREET I 
: 
!* 

ADULT THEATRES !* 
2 FILMS
* 
* 
BOOKSTORE 


LIVE FLOOR SHOW
* 

1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET ~~CALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATIONr 
~l::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:i!i:i::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;~~ 
Starts Friday 
Quickie service resumes 
by Fred Herbst 
Staff Reporter 
The "Quickie" Shuttle Service to Michigan sponsored by the Ombudsman and the St. Mary's Social Commission, will resume operation this Friday night. 
The "Quickie" bus will make stops at the Boar's Head, Denny's, Village Inn Pizza, Kubiak's, Jay's Lounge, Heidelberg Inn and Portofino's. 
The "Quickie" leaves the Notre Dame circle at 8:30. 9:00, 9:30, 10:00, 11:00, 12:00, 12:30, 1:00 
and 1:30. The bus will stop at Holy Cross Hall on the Saint Mary's Campus approximately five minutes after departing from Notre Dame. 
As during last semester, the cost of the "Quickie" will be 50 cents each way or 75 cents for the entire night. 

Nazz to reopen 
The "Nazz" coffeehouse will reopen tonight at 10 p.m. with a "Jazz at the Nazz" series. This series will be offered every Wednesday night. 
Tonight's edition will feature Fr. Wiskirchen and the N.D. Jazz Combo. The regular "Nazz,' will reopen this weekend at 10 p.m, on both Friday and Saturday. 
'The "Nazz" is located in the basement of LaFortune. For further information and for those interested in performing, the numbers to call are 6413 (Ralph PPnnino) and 8432 (Dave Shaheen 
The Observer Is publllhed dally during the college serne1ter ecapt vacations by the stuc11n1s of lhe University of Notre Dame ... St. Mary's College. SuMcrlptlons may be purchased for .$9 per semester ($16 per year) trwm 'Tf!e Observer Box~ Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. SecOftd class postage paid. Notre Dune. Ind. 46556. 
Special Projects and Services Officer Charlie Moran indicated his belief in the need for such a service by saying, "We are ex­tremely concerned for the safety of the students who socialize in Michigan. It is our hope at the Ombudsman that the student body will utilize the "Quickie" for their safety as well as their con­venience." 
Despite financial losses, il is hoped that the "Quickie" service can be expanded this semester. Morna said "We had six 'Quickie weekends last semester on an experimental basis. We had a total loss around $450, and averaged about $30-$50 loss each week. We hope to be able to offer this service for 8-10 weekends this semester, provided that the necessary fun­ding can be found." 
Noting that the Ombudsman and the St. Mary's Social Commission are more than willing to help transport those having private parties in Michigan, Moran stated, "The Heidelberg Inn has become popular for large parties and we have provided extra bus service for these parties. This extra bus 
severly cuts into the very limited 
funds we have to run the buses, so 
we have been forced to put a $50 
deposit requirement on these 
parties to cover any losses we 
incur." 
"We also would ask that anyone 
planning_ a party in Michigan, 
would give us at least a weeks 
notice, if they wish to use the 
shuttle. Any large party requires 
that an extra bus be obtained and 
the stewards, to man that bus 
must be found," he added. ' 
Asking the consideration of 
students for the bus stewards 
Moran mentioned, "The student~ 
should remember that the 
stewards are riding the buses and 
helping sick students on a volun­
teer basis, receiving no pay for the ·work". 
Moran stressed the large 
number of individuals involved 
in the"Quickie" service and added 
"Stewards are a necessary part of 
the "Quickie", and we are always 
looking for concerned students who 
would be interested in helping as 
stewards If interested, students 
should call the Ombudsman office 
at 7638 and leave their names." 




TUTORING 

WANTS YOU SIGN UP NOW CALL: TOM 8437 EILEEN 4306 D.C. 1739 DAN 282-1784 
******************************************************* 
! this spring break, reggae down to ~ 
i* MONTEGO BAY, i* 


i JAMAICA ~ 
* * 
: spend 8 days on this sun-drenched ~ * * 
a tropical island in the Caribbean a a * ROUND TRIP BY AIR JAMAICA JET a ! DETROIT/MONTEGO BAY/DETROIT ~ :(BUS SERVICE TO & FROM SOUTH BEND AVAILABLE): 
a 

* DELUXE ACCOMODATIONS AT THE a PLUSH MONTEGO BAY HOLIDAY INN : 
* 
(right on the Caribbean, next to Casinos ! 
and Night Clubs) 
* COMPLIMENTARY RUM PARTY 
: e~\_,.:t ON ARRIVAL
* J.:.. 1«1tiJ • •

: ·· ~~ ,. s~-MARCH 22-29 : -Jt.; $332 per person
*

!  INTERESTED? SIGN UP AT THE STUDENT UNION  :  
a  TICKET OFFICE FROM 11 :30-4:00 DAILY.  a  
!  $25 DEPOSITS WILL BE TAKEN  !  
**•*IIlii"• a*  \HH-\\1-f \1!-\'I l<'r ST. JOE BANK TRAVEL AGENCY  * * * * !  
'111 '-ill  Ill \li!'IIICi•\'\ A\.E:'\!11-:. DOW:'\TOWN  •  

*****************************************************• 
* 
: 
a 
~ 
* 
-~ 
: 
* 
Wednesday, January 22, 1975 the observer 
3 
•t!lo'< '' • 

Lafortune remodeling continues 
by Mike ~dwards the Student Union and Student Staff Reporter Government have been prov•ided with offices and a reception area 
The renovation of LaFortune is on the second floor."
proceeding and nearing com­Over the Christmas break mostpletion of the present schedule of 
plans, stated Fr. David Schlaver, of the building was repainted and 
i:lirector of student activites. bold letter graphic signs were 
The current push for renovation painted to make it easier to locate began in 1973 and in April of that the various offices and facilities of year a plan was submitted to the the building.Board of Trustees by a committee At present time the main lobby is of students. Last year $250,000 still being worked on. New lighting was allocated by the Board and has been installed and carpeting work was begun. and new furnishings are scheduled 
Ron Blitch, a fourth year ar­to be in by the end of Easter break. chitecture student and a member Futuristic purple and red chairs of the original board said that work will be strung about in serpentine has been completed in most of the fashion throughout the lobby, areas set forth in the original interspersed by twenty rented live plans. "The old stairs have been trees. Canvas strips may be hung torn out and new stairwells in­lengthwise from the ceiling to stalled and extended up to the third dissipate light and provide a lower floor," Blitch stated. The ceiling while maintaining the relocation of all the student classical integrity of the room, publications to the third floor has Schlaver noted. been successfully completed and The original first priority of the 
ND students 
Sponsor tax progrant 
by John Feeney 
Staff Reporter 
Beginning in February, the Notre Dame Tax Assistance Program <TAP) will once again go into operation. Sponsored by the Accounting Department of the College of Business Administration and under the supervision of Professor Ken Milani and Professor Jim Wittenbach, TAP is a student run service conducted for the benefit of South Bend residents, providing aid in the preparation of Federal and State Income Tax reports. 
Now in its fourth year, the organization has gradually in­creased in scope and last year aided over 400 families. "The service is open to all, but we try to encourage only those who have an income of $10,000 or less to come," said Milani. "Staffed by Notre Dame Law, graduate, and un­dergraduate students, the program is conducted every day of the week except Sundays. Our intention is to start early in February (presently scheduled for Saturday, February 8) and continue until the filing deadline, Tuesday, April15." "A system of 'major centers' has been set up which will include the Model Cities Center and the Hansel Center, where CPA's will be present to provide advice and supervision on detailed tax 
problems," Milani added. 
Throughout the program there have been no real difficulties and Milani praised both the Internal Revenue Service and the Indiana Department of Revenue for their cooperation, stating, "They have been most helpful, providing forms and offering their services to all involved." 
To publicize the organization, an extensive public relations cam­paign has been under way, under 


MEETING 
ST. MARY'S 
REPORTERS \ 
\ 

Tonight ' 7 p.m. \ 
\ Room 160\ Regina \ \ 
Be there!! 
the direction of Bill Sullivan, a senior Business major. A volun­teer, as are all the other par­ticipants, he has put in a lot of time to promote the organization. 
"I've been pretty busy lately," stated Sullivan, "contacting radio stations, the newspapers, and local centers in the area, providing them with a newsletter explaining how the organization functions." 
Despite the effort involved, most students have found TAP to be very worthwhile. "It's been a good experience for me," offered Sullivan, "learning to work with other people, finding out about the public relations involved, and using the skills learned from class. An the reaction of the people has been just great. They are all very grateful, thanking everyone profusely and often writing letters of thanks." 
There will be a special training session offered next week by the accounting department, with an announcement concerning the time and place forthcoming. Anyone interested in the organization is urged to call Bill Sullivan at 289-6142. 
Rare Earth to perform 
The rock band Rare Earth will appear in concert next Tuesday, January 28 at 7:30 p.m. at the Morris Civic Auditorium. Pete Kernan, South Bend represen­tative of Sunshine Promotions, also announced that Pure Funk will open the show. 
Tickets for the concert are $5.50 in aqvance or $6.00 on the day of renovation, a complete remodeling of the Huddle Snack Bar, has been put off till last. Blitch explained, "Because of the size and expense of the project the renovation of the Huddle was postponed. We have ro re-evaluate the food situation to see exactly what would be best for the students. The whole Huddle· will probably be changed." 
He added that the most favored plan included an extension of the dining area into a room over the pool hall and that some type of renovation should be completed for the upcoming fall semester. 
Schlaver said that originally consideration was given to con­verting what is currently the Rathskeller into a bar, but the recent State Supreme Court rulings on the liability involved with the consumption of alcohol by minors skuttled the idea. 
"The thing we want to em­phasize is that renovation is an ongoing process with no set plans or dates for completion," he ob­served. "LaFortune is a beautiful and useful building and it just needs to be adapted to the shifting H·.terests of the students." 


at the Notre Dame Student Union Ticket Office, Morris Civic Box Office, and Boogie Records. 
Co-ex meal tix available 
The co-exchange of meal tickets between Notre Dame and St. Mary's will once again be in operation this semester, an­nounced Notre Dame's co­ordinator of the co-ex program Blake Wordal. 
Co-ex tickets will be distributed for the first time this semester on Monday, January 28, he said. 
Senior Ball surveys due 
All ND-SMC seniors are 
reminded that the Senior Ball 
surveys should be returned today. 
They can be brought to the 
Morrissey Loan Fund office in the 
basement of LaFortune anytime 
this afternoon or evening. If the 
office is closed, please slip the 
questionnaire under the door. 
The Senior Ball Committee is 
depending on these surveys for all 
plans and locations. Seniors are 
urged to include any comments or 
suggestions about the events and 
the format. 

IN CONCERT 


HELEN REDDY 
with SpeciqiGuest 
PETER ALLEN SUN. FEB. 9th 8:00 P.M. 
Ticket Prices 
NOTRE DAME

Bleachers ••••••• $4.50 Lower Arena ••••• $5.50 ATHLETIC AND Floor, Loge •••••• $6.50 CONVOCATION CENTER 
and Platforms •. •• $6.50 Concert Tickets 
Now on Sale 
NOTRE DAME, A.C.C. 
Mon. -Sot. 9 to 5 
Robertson's 
/South Bend & Concord Moll 
St. Joseph Bank 
and branches
\ 
·First Bank
' 
Main office only
\ Elkhart Truth 


Jazz at the Nozz 
reopens ton ite & every Wed. 
10:00 pm Basement of LaFortune 
Regular Nazz reopens Fri. nite 
***********************************' 
aNOBODY THROWS A FROLIC LIKE~ ~THE IRISH, SO WE'RE LOOKING ~ 
* * 
: FOR IRISH· FROLIC THROWERS : *~ BECAUSE... * 
* *
* * 

iAN TOSTAL j
* ~ 
: IS ALMOST HERE (APRIL 17, 18, t :& 19, TO BE PRECISE!) so IF YoU: i HAVE BEAUTY, IDEAS, CHARM, !TIME~ ENERGY, AND/OR TALENT l iAND CAN'T WAIT TO JOIN THE a ~ 1975 AN TOSTAL COMMITIEE, ~ 
fLA FORTUNE BALLROOM ~ 
* *

i WEDNESDAY at 9:30 : 
~~---"~-----------------.... •*********••••**********************. 
.. 


Memberd. FqlDl q,pcriunity 

Telles calls for equality 
by Mike Lyons and to "preserve their human Telles ascertained· that the figure dignity." Some of the results of proves that the complaints filed
Staff Reporter 
discrimination in employment with the Commission do not Charging that "No person can be inclutle loss of vital manpower and represent a few troublemakers fully free while his neighbor is the discouragement of young but are typical of the 
people from even trying to break frustrationaand despair felt bynot," Ambassador Raymond 
into the job market. Any good good workers who have been
Telles appealed for recognition of the need for equal opportunities for executive realizes that people continually shortcharu!:ed.. all during a apeech in the Library contribute to the success of Telles listed problems with the
an auditorium last night. organization. Yet, America still EEOC as including a backlog of Telles is a member of the Equal refuses to fully develop her some 100,000 cases and the fact 
Employment Opportunity Com­greatest natural resource, human that once an investigation is potential.
mission which was created by the started, many different types of Civil Rights Act of 1964. He was the The Ambassador also outlined discriminatory practices other first Mexican-American to become the purpose and major concerns of than the one being checked may be mayor of a major US city (El Paso, the EEOC <Equal Employment discovered. The Commission must Texas). From 1961 to 1967 he Opportunity Commission). To then investigate all aspects of the 
insure that all are treated fully
served as Ambassador to Costa­company's hiring practices. 
equally in the fields of housing,Rica. 
transportation, health and em­
The Ambassador also discussed Monday night,Telles called for the ployment is its reason for a second type of discrimination,
existence. The Commission is
young people of today to provide one which, although not exactly
composed ·of 5 members, each 
wouldn't you rather come with us? 

the necessary leadership and against the law, still is a source of
serving a 5-year term. Evidence of 
Last year over 200 1 000 studPnts summered in Europe. And the travelwise flew on charters because it costs about HALFJ 
action to combat discrimination unfair employment practices. Use 
discrimination on the basis of race, 
and prejudice in the job market. If of such employment prerequisites 
This ye&.r a ) -6 week ticket to London is $512.; 2 -3 
weaker $597. And its $76?. for over six weeks from New
religion, sex or national origin is
we are to survive, Telles believes, as passing a written test in English 
York. (That's what the airlines say now. Last year there
investigated. 
were two unforcast increases!)
we must cultivate human or height and weight specifications 
relationships and let the "good of are discriminatory when they are 
Not only do you fly with us at half1 but you can just about.
According to Telles, the 
have your choice of dates for4, 5, b, 7, 8, 9, 10 week dur­
the whole take precedence over the not necessary for the job the ap­
ation during the summer. And all you have to do to 1'1U&l ify
Commission bogged down with an 
is reserve your oeat now by sending $100. cleposit, plU.J $10.
good of the part." plicant is applying for. 
registration fee. Under recently new U. S. Government reg­
overload of cases and it . greatly 
ulation!3 we mu~t subm1t all flight participants name!.. and
Telles said that women haveinterferes with its efficiency. The 

full payment sixty days before each flight. If you takP. the
The Ambassador traced the a way job 
June 21-August 19 flight to London for example, deposit re­
development of the Civil Rights situation is getting worse rather come long in op­
serves your seat. and April 15 you send the $199. balance.
portunities, but were still far 

Just one price for a 11 flights whether you pick a weekend
than improving, and this wasMovement beginning with the 
departure ($15. extra on the r~gular fare airl ine!i) or peak
behind. For every $5 made by a progress made by John F. illustrated with a few statistics. In 

season surchar~e date. 
man, a woman will earn only $3 ir

Kennedy in 1961 when he created 1973, , 48,000 cases were brought a job,according to 
So :oend for our c.omplete :.chedule, or t.o be ~ure of your re­
comparable 

nerva!-ion now, u.all :1c•ur depo~it for one of our I t.CJ ~ w~-:ckly
before the Commission for in­the first legislative committee 
departures from ,lune through September. ,Ju:;t !.lpecU'y the w~ek you wnnt. to travt~\ :tnct for how lon,:!;. You wiJ! rP.cc:ivc your 
Telles.

vestigation. In 1974, 55,000 casesspecifically designated to in­
exact date confirmation and receipt by rf'turn mail. AJJ our
were filed, and an estimated 70,000 
f l iJ"ht.~; are Via fully N.!T'tificat.ed, !1. !J. Governmunl ~Jl:.HJda rcJ jt>t. and all fir~~l cl<w~ uervlcl!. ~·roml.ondon thtr•: Rre rn;u.y
vestigate discrimination. Telles cases will appear in 1975. In ap­The speech was ended on annoted that it was not until 1963 that 
~~~~~~~~/~~~h~~ 0 ~v A~ 1!);a~·~f. ~~e t~~~~~~;i~=~~: fN>qUI!IIt. rtf!­
.. Tellessufficient pressure was present for proximately 63 percent of those optimistic note with 

cases investigated, reasonable confident that by 1976 the racial, 
ftEPUBl IC AIR SV&TE:MS INTI!:ANATIONAI

the introduction of a Bill calling for 
cause for political and economic problems of equal facilitieA'for all. The Bill was 
' the country will be on a way to 
800 -22) -5)89

later taken up by Lyndon Johnson 
(TOLL FREE)
concrete solutions. Calling onwho appealed for the "elimination everyone to do all they could to 

Charter flying is

of every trace" of oppression in all support equal employment andaspects of American life. The 
the biggest bargain 
opportunity, the Ambassadorsummer of 1964 saw the bitter reminded his audience that he 

in air travel today

struggle , for the passage of the 
, stands tallest who lifts others. 

Bill, and over 500 amendments later the Civil Rights Act passed Congress and was signed into law. Telles emphasized that though the Act was the culmination of the efforts of many people who had been denied equal opportunity, it was only the beginning of the fight. 
Uwelling on the resentment created by the denial of equal opportunity, Telles discussed the, frustration ~nd anger resulting 
Rust Makes 
from being caught in a cycle of poverty, not because of one's own lack of ambition, but because of 

NewHorizons
one's religion, sex, race or national origin. Speaking for such people he claimed that theywanted'only to seek "escape from dependency"· 

Realities 
Rust Engineering­a multinational industrial develop­ment corporation, with headquarters in Bir­mingham, Alabama-is right on top of the world of design and construction expan­
sion. 

When it comes to industrial design and construction development, few com­panies have our broad experience and capa­bilities. Rust is making things happen all over the world in pulp and paper, ferrous and non-fer­rous metals, petro-dlemH:al. wood processing, and environmental control. We make things happen for people, too. Then's wHy you might take another look at your future and decide to look our way. The vistas we offer are attractiwe, and the employee package is outstanding_ See your college placement director for an interview with Rust. 
le1's 1alk it ower• 
• lheRust 
i 

a..Engllseez••Conipdif
AS.Ibsdaryc:lWlleeJaboab-Fr,. COLLEGE PI A«% WI DIAEL ICM 
P.O...'Ie1 ..1 •tr 4A1Lai28f 
Woody Allen films Cinema '75 spring 
by Shawn Scannell Staff Reporter 
A Woody Allen Film Festival will highlight this semester's Cultural Arts Commission's Cinema '75, according to co­chairman Bill Wylie and Tom McGinty. "The Spring Semester of films covers a wide range of movies by some of the most prominent and influential mem­bers of the cinematic medium," Wylie announced. 
Starting this Sunday, Jan. 26, is a week of conspicuous mayhem in the form of the Woody Allen Festival. All six of Allen's films will be shown, beginning with "Play It Again, Sam" this Sunday. The week looks like this: Monday, Jan. 27 -"What's Up, Tiger Lily"; Tuesday-"Bananas"; Wednesday -"Take the Money and Run"; Friday-"Everything You Always Wanted To Know About Sex"; and finishing up on Saturday, February 1 with "Sleeper", Allen's most recent effort. 
The first of the contemporary special series is the highly suc­cessful "American Graffiti", to be shown Tuesday and Wednesday, February 4 and 5. The following week the second contemporary special, "Summer Wishes, Winter Dreams", will be shown Thursday and Friday, February 13 and 14. This film is the story of the soul searching of a middle-aged woman, played by Joanne Woodward. 
Next on the agenda is the Literary Adaptations Festival, during which five films will be shown on successive evenings, beginning Sunday, Feb. 23 through Thursday, Feb. 27. The five films, in order of presentation, are: "The Heart is a Lonely Hunter", based on the novel by Carson McCallers, starring Alan Arkin; "To Have and Have Not", from Ernest Hem­mingway, starring Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall, and directed by Howard Hawks; "The Last Hurrah", directed by John Ford and starring Spencer Tracy; "The Loved One", from the novel by Evelyn Waugh; and the suspenseful thriller "Don't Look Now", starring Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie, adapted from Daphne du Maurier's story of the same name. "The intent of this series is not to present the 
Hesburgh to offer mass for Right to Life concern 
by George Eckes Staff Reporter 
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh will offer a concelebrated mass tonight , at 8:00 in Sacred Heart Church on behalf of those concerned with the Right To Life movement in the Notre Dame area. Wednesday marks the second anniversary of the Supreme Court decision of Roe vs. Wade which enables women to receive abortion on demand. 
The Mass will be the culmination in a series of events that began late last semester with the collection of signatures and donations from Notre Dame and St. Mary's students to help generate a pro-life attitude in the community. Keefe Montgomery, a pro-life activist on campus comments on the drive, "The ad in the Observer serves a dual purpose. To have a memorial to those who were deprived of life mirable record on this issue." 
Fathers Edmund Joyce, William Toohey and James Burtchaell will help celebrate the mass that was lauded by Donald Barrett, associate professor of sociology and anthropology whose speaking engagements for the antiabortion cause have taken him to Washington D.C. and an ap­pearance before the national board of The Right to Life Committee. "It is about time something like this has occurred. As a specialist in the family, I certainly feel this is themost important issue facing us. I'm very impressed and amazed by the energy and drive put forth by the students in organizing these projects. People like Joe Corpora have put a lot of effort into this and I'm happy something is materializing." 
Barrett, who in 1974 gave 30 lectures on the Right to Life movement in the South Bend area 


highlight schedule 
definitive "best" adaptations of books to the screen, but to explore the paradoxical maxim that states that relatively good books make poor movies and vice-versa," according to Wylie. 
On Thursday and Friday, March 13 and 14, "Panic in Needle Park", 
. the third of the contemporary specials, will be shown. This film, starring AI Pacino, is a strikingly realisitc study of heroine addiction in New York City. One of the films of foreign directors, "The Last Laugh", directed by F.W. Murnau, will be shown on Tuesday and Wednesday March 18 and 19. This landmark silent film is from the golden age of the German cinema, which was highly in­strumental in injecting camera movement into the then fledgling movie industry. The winner of six Academy Awards in 1936, including best picture, "It Happened One Night", will be shown on Tuesday and Wednesday, AprilS and 9. Directed by Frank Lapra, it stars Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert, both of whom won Academy Awards for their roles in this Depression-era comedy. Highlighting the foreign films is Ingmar Bergman's "The Seventh Seal", which will be shown Tuesday and Wednesday, April 15 and 16. The third of the foreign . films, "Rashomon", directed by · lkira Kurasowa, will be shown Tuesday and Wednesday, April 22 and 23. This film is billed as a sensitive, pictorically beautiful movie which opened Japanese film to the West. The schedule finished up on Tuesday and Wednesday, April 29 and 30, with Robert Altman's "Brewster McCloud", which is "a kind of surrealistic lark by a 
director whom many consider the ' 
best on the American film scene," 
Wylie stated. 
Admission to the movies, all of . which will be shown in the \ Engineering Auditorium, remains · at the customary $1.00 price. ' Cinema '75 patron cards are still available. at the Student Union Ticket Office. The five dollar price for each card entitles the holder to free admission to all films, except those in the Woody Allen Festival. 
Proceeds from this Festival will go towards defraying expenses 

Wednesday, January 22, 1975 the observer 
Milano's Pizza 
412 N. Hill Street 
(next to Simari's Bar) open 4 pm daily 287-2891 10 % off with this ad 

N 0 W APPEARING TIMMIE TOURS 
AND 

SOUTH SHORE 




~~u/a~
NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS 
on U.S. 31 Ntween llies, So. B•d-Free l'aninc-613-USO. 
COMING FEB 12: SUGAR LOAF 

and to propose positive alter­had some general comments natives to what we, as people, can concerning the issue of pro-lifedo to remedy the problem. Along here at Notre Dame. "As a with the Right to Life mass eight or Catholic university, I feel we nine students will be in should speak out on issues that Washington D.C. to participate in pertain to our catholicity. After all the national march and here in a university is a place where South Bend there will be a group at controversial issues can be the Federal building in protest of deliberated and should not be John Brademas' less than ad-supressed." 
SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS PRESENTS 
RARE EARTH 
WITH SPECIAL GUEST 
PURE FUNK 
IN CONCERT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
NEXT TUESDAY, JANUARY 28, 
7:30 p.m. 
TICKETS: $5.50 IN ADVANCE.J. $6.00 DAY OF SHOW. TICKETS AVAILAHLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE, MORRIS CIVIC, AN~ BOOGIE RECORDS. 
ALL SEATS GENERAL ADMISSION 



campus view ' it INDOOR SW(MMING POOL '.TO BE COMPLETED IN A N~W APARTMENT COM­it,i-"BASKETBALL COURT MUNITY DEVELOPED·FOR. 
it .•!SHAG CAR-PET THE STUDENTS! OF NOTRE 
DAME & SAINT. MARY'S. CAMPUS it :2 BATHS IN 2 BEDROOM APT 
I 
VIEW IS SET IN A WOODED ALL APPLIANCES COLOR ­SURROUNDING 'YET IS ONLY 
I COORDINATED ' SECURITY

3 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME. LOCATED JUST ONE BLOCK 
SOUND CONDITIONED NORTH OF M'ATE RD._ 23 OFF 
OF WILLIS .RD. ; PRIVACY 
"NOW RENriNG FOR SECOMl-SEMESTER" FOR RENTAL INFORMATION PHONE 272·l44J 
Save Your Roses 
D.ear Abortionophobes, 
Your admirable energy is misspent. Were you to spend your $500-600 on birth control pills for distribution to those women who need them, a large step, one 
infinitely larger than your attempts at political pressure can ever realize, could be taken toward eliminating the cause, unwanted pregnancy, rather than the symptom. Better still, spend your money on birth control ecucation, so that those Jess privileged than you (and therefore less entitled to make moral judgement?) can have the luxury of choice. We are donating our $.25, our roses, and whatever other resources we can muster to Planned Parenthood. We are, further, urging Senators Bayh and Hartke and RepreseQ­tative Brademas to vote and argue against the return to theocratic dictatorship you propose. ND Students for Liberty and the Pursuit of Happiness, Gregory Marshall Nicholas Talarico 
Alternative Centers 
Dear Editor: 
I am· presently a resident of the McNeil Island Federal Prison Camp. 
Many things have happened to me since my incarceration, but the tragic incident that most drastically altered my con· sciousness was the rape and brutal beating of my daughter. The severe shock of this event has left her mentally affected. My first reaction was a resolve to seek vengeance. 
In later frustration, I sought to avoid the reality of it and to forget it, to no avail. Finally, after talking with a number of sex of­fenders, I began to see my problems as neither unique nor excusive to me or my family. 
The many victims of rape (other than homosexual) are women who are mothers, sisters, daughters, friends, to may other people who are affected like me. 
Recently, I have been working with others to organize alter­natives to rape centers (ANC) nation-wide. We are in need of materials, staff help, and ideas. We would be very interested in knowing of any people at your school who might care to help us or join with us. 
We are planning an organizational meeting in Seattle on the 15th of April, 1975, and we need all the help and support we can get. Our choice of site for the 
DOONESBURY 

meeting in Seattle will soon be Notre Dame Library. The two made, and anyone interested may week sale made over $1900~ur 
please write now to one of the best total ever! ! ! The money persons listed here for further raised by the sale of UNICEF information and to express how 
cards helps alleviate the pain of they feel they wish to contribute. 
hunger, disease and illiteracy for Anyone may serve and help in any millions of children today in over way to make our organization a 
100 developing countries. Thank success. you all for your concern and your help.
Thanking you in advance. Ms. Marylyn King 623 2nd A venue Sincerely, Seattle, Washington 
Brigid D. Dutile, 98104 
UNICEF Sale Chairperson Ladies of Notre Dame 

Ms. Susan Sherbina 305 Bellevue East Seattle, Washington 98102 
Rock On! 

Ken Hawkins Dear Editor,
Box 1000 FPC 
You certainly aren't doing much Sleil Acoom, Washington of a job, because if you were the 

98388 
column by Bill Brink, "AM Blues",Hope to hear from you soon, never would have soiled the pages Love and peace, of the Observer. Mr. Brink is, to Ken Hawkins put it politely, out of his gourd. (I tend to think that he is on drugs, but do not have any solid in­formation for this.) 

He thinks that AM is being run

Co-Ed 
by Communists. What a laugh! <And they thought America lost a lot of laughs when Jack Benny

Towers 
died. Let Brink keep writing!) AM is run by right-thinking, op­portunistic, capitalist American Editor: citizens who want to keep America 
I believe there exists a much on the move. They aren't worried more rational solution to the about good taste, or which songs placement of 300 additional women sound best. There's no future in on campus next year: it would be that. AM radio is concerned with an extremely simple matter to selling. Period. convert Grace, Flanner, or both to And we should get down on our coeducational dormitories. humble knees and, in humble 
For those who are not familiar supplication, thank every AM with the halls, each has 20 sections, radio person in the whole world for 2 per floor. Each floor also has a what they are doing to us! AM is a common area with elevators, powerful and fulfilling force in our stairs, and a study room. lives. Without it, where would our 
It would be very easy to provide teen-agers know to look to clear up the two entrances to each section their disgusting faces, where would with the Detex locks necessary for we know to look for a good the women's protection. The cheeseburger, how would we ever common area of each floor would learn about "The Rock of remain open to both men and Michiana"? women. The same parietal rules If God had meant AM to be wuld be in effect for the sections. pleasant, he would have made it The dorm could thus be FM. coeducational on a floor-by-floor, 
And what's wrong with the music section-by-section, or top-and­
they play now? Where else but on bottom basis. 
AM could we have heard the If one of the aims of the 
classic "Clap for the Wolfman" university is to help develop 
<which not only carried a catchy mature, adult attitudes towards 
tune, but also instructed in the the opposite sex, the above dangers of contracting disease proposal would be an intelligent from sex with monsters), the ever­
delightful "My First, My Last, Mystep towards that goal. 

Everythang", not to mention the astonishing musical complexity of Thomas Weber "I Can Help"· Grace Hall As Wolfman Jack once said, 
. "Gonna get down and boogie, baby, gonna tear the place up, put green onions all over the studio and 

UNICEF 
keep the vampires away--this one's for mike and micky and all theProfits gang at tino's!!!! !" Not to mention all the great 
contests. Dear Editor: I would like to thank all why ROCK'N' 
contributed to the success of last 
ROLLLLLLLLLLLI,LLLL, month's UNICEF card sale in the Bob Dylan 
IIJ4/tU 'f(}(J 
SEC H~ IN tat/., I HfP/3 
11/AT Pl?£55, /1 PrEihNE&Oj fldiNK! 5116U ANYJU'fPRATitN;­.. 8t THE P!?£T-HER 5ACRJFICE 
d 
11/iST WILJINO IS (JV FRIIJ4YI ~ VIllEIN fN THE \ 
o !SIANO!\ 
by Garry Trudeau 
OH, MWI! 

fOR. PW&'S H6er..
MY t/JRP! 
8IfT ITS...
Stllf&! IU fJC FI?JINKIE..
>t:XJCAU7HAT 
!T'S.. SAC­
C'MON,
A /JK&SS!? 'tfJIJ 
1?/t~GIOIJS/f 7Rti5T
CAN Sli& RIGHT 
\ ME! I
7HRa/6H IT!! 
\ 
-

belll:awer v1ews 
SMC Liberation mary janca 
"You know, in the past, St. Mary's gave Notre Dame the golden statue of Our Lady that's on top of the Dome, and now, 100 years later, we're still giving them women, but this time, it's our students," com en ted a friend of mine recently at dinner, as we were recalling anumber of our friends who had transferred to Notre Dame from St. Mary's in the past two years. 
"And talk about looking a gift horse in the mouth!" chimed in another girl at the table, and the conversation was drawn to the deteriorating relationship between Notre Dame and St. Mary's since the un-merger three years ago. After pointing out the in­justice of the situation, the discussion ended, as all of them usually do--it accomplished nothing, but allowed the frustrations to be aired. My friends and I parted for the evening, yet what had been discussed failed to evade my thoughts. 
St. Mary's in recent year, it seemed, was in many respects similar to the ten-year~ld who is trying his hardest to fit in with a clique of peers, but somehow always falls short. 
Instances where ND seemed to have placed a barrier between itself and St. Mary's came to mind: --services formerly open to SMC students were now closed to them 
-ND duplication of organizations which were initiated at St. Mary's, most particularly the Collegiate Choir and the weekend coffeehouse, which got theirstartat SMC several years ago, and are now seen as competition for two similar activities presently in operation at Notre Dame. For example, when SMC's Collegiate Choir, composed of both Notre Dame and St. Mary's students applied for permission to run a hot dog stand on football Saturdays in order to raise money for a tour, they were refused because they were competfng with ND's University Chorus. . 
The statement inferring that SMC was just another college which happened to be in South Bend, whic~ Don B~uffard, ACC ticket manager, made during the b-ball ticket pnces. l~st semester seemed indicative of the attitude of several ND adm1mstrators. 
The ridiculousness of the situation failed to humor me. Why two schools which were historically and traditionally so close would drift apart and begin to consider each other as a competitor was incomprehensible. As I became more and more frustrated and angry, I also became aware thB:t, as in any ~elationship, its succe~s or failure depends upon the actions ofthosemvolved. And up to th1s point, I myself had done little, other than to _complain about the situation, and my fellow students had done hkew1se. 
The fact of the matter seems to be that we really don't care any more, or know what to do, or perhaps, even if we do care the rationale for not becoming involved is, "What can one person do, anyway?" Truth is, by our non-action, we are in reality taking a stand, and taking action; we are saying that we really d?n'~ care what happens. It's as if deep down, we ourselves are begmmng to believe that we're unequal and inferior to Notre Dame. 
And yet, almost ironically, we call the campuses the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community. Granted, in a community, members must assume different roles. However, one is not considered neither inferior nor more·important for carrying out a different role than another. Both schools have grown together and have worked together in the past. Each has attributes which the other cannot offer by the vary fact that it is different. The time has come when both school must learn to draw from the resources of the other. All of this requires a change of attitude, which in turn, calls for concern and involvement. 
Apathy, though, has lately become as common around here as a Bic pen that doesn't write. Just out of curiosity, I did some ;research and discovered that of the last two SMC student govern­ment elections only two top level student government posts have been contested: Last semester, a Student Assembly meeting had to be cancelled because there were too few representatives present to conduct the meeting, or to vote on any proposals that were up before the Assembly. The hall officer electionsin.J~egina last year were invalidated and reschedule several times because there were not enough votes cast to allow for a simply majority for any _can­didate that was running. Campaigning for freshmen class officers is now going on for the second time this year. Apparently there was no one to man two of the four ballot boxes in the dorms, so the elections were invalidated and willbere-held on Thursday. 
However, student government, while it may be the hardest hit, is not the only victim of apathy. Student publications most notably this newspaper, have been sorely lacking in input from the majority of St. Mary's students. Face it-it's humanly and physically impossible for three or four students out of a campus enrollment of 1700 to keep the college informed on campus events, policy changes, administrative decisions, and item~ of ~ter~t which affect the students at St. Mary's. The Observer IS a v1tal hnk between the two campuses. It serves as an indispensable means of communication between St. Mary's and Notre Dame. Yet it cannot continue to function in this manner or strengthen that link without continued and increasing support from St. Mary's student body. 
Since the un-merger, SMC, while proclaiming intself to be a vibrant and growing women's college, hasn't come across as such. In my own mind, to be vibrant and growing implies being alive, enthusiastic, and willing to accept a challenge. And for the college itself to come alive, we as students must come alive first. 
Think about it. 
the observer 
Night Editor: AI Rutherford Asst•. Night Editor: Maggie Waltman Layout: Maureen Salbel, Ginny Faust Ad Layout: Bob Tracy Copy Readers: Ron Porklns, Jim Eder, Ken Bradford Day Editor: Ken Glrourard Editorials: Fred Graver Features: Ginny Faust, Norm Bower, Marlene .Zioza, J. Robert Bbaker Sports: Greg Corgan Typists: Jim Landis, Tom Modglin, Kathy Grace, Don Roos Night Controllers: M.J. Foley, 
... Phil .Orscheln 


Wednesday, January 22, 1975 
the observer 
7 

homosexuality -a separate community 
Editor's Note: This is the first in a series of three articles dealing with the question of homosexuality at Notre Dame The series will run today, Thursday and Friday. 
Professional baseball refused to acknowledge the existence of black athletes until Jackie Robinson stepped forward and proved he was one of the best around. 
Inventors of the first aeroplane were mocked, scorned and warned of the eternal fires of hell they would face for going against the laws of nature. 
At one time, women were considered biologically inferior to men and giving them the right to vote was a tragic mistake by America. 
So, too, the gay community at Notre Dame is subjected to an existence of anonymity, meeting in member's homes, avoiding any conflicts with the power structure and experiencing a general separateness from the rest of the Notre Dame community. 
Dr. Charles Kinsey issued a report in 1949, stating that approximately five per cent of the male population in America are prac­ticing homosexuals. Dr. Charles Arens, director of the Psychological Services Center at Notre Dame, sees no reason why the statistics should be any different here. This would place the number of homosexuals at Notre Dame around four hundred. 
The Gay Students of Notre Dame 
A number of students and faculty members at Notre Dame have been working to establish a group in which homosexual men and women might meet. The name of the group is The Gay Students of Notre Dame and its major objective is "to create an environment in which members can share ideas and experiences with each other," according to a leader of the organization. 
The organization was formed in October 
by a few gay students who realized the need 
for a place where they and their peers could 
meet, exchange ideas and experiences and 
offer each other the social reinforcement 
imperative to gay life. 
In the few months the group has been in 
existence, membership has risen to around 
thirty people, according to one of the 
members. The majority of the group is 
composed of students but a few faculty 
members have stepped forward and joined 
the organization. Of the student mem­
bership the number of undergraduates and 
graduate students is split evenly. 
Although the group is open to men and 
women of the gay community, no females 
have expressed any interest in the group as 
yet. 
Gay Students is presently more concerned 
with trying to solve individual problems of 
the members than altering the attitudes of 
the rest of the community. As a result, it 
intends to remain fairly private in its 
operations and avoid any public con­
frontations. 
Meetings are held weekly in homes and 
apartments off-campus. According to one 
spokesman for the group, "The meetings 
usually include a general discussion by the 
entire group followed by conversations in 
smaller groups." 


the bastard child of·ballet 
a preview by mary ellen mcandrews 
"Jazz dancing is America's gift to the world of dance and this company has dedicated itself to making audiences aware of authentic American jazz dance." 
Such, writes Gus Giordano, is the theme of the Gus Giordano Dance Company. This Thursday at 8:00p.m. on O'Laughlin stage, the six dancers who make up this company will put on a dance concert for the Notre Datne -St. Mary's audience. 
By presenting jazz dance in concert form, the group shows us the exciting spectacle of this aspect of our American folk art. Jazz dance, only thirty years old, is a great dance form to watch. Based on isolation movements, the head can move while the rest of the body remains still. Likewise, the .arm can be mo~ed from three different points-the wrist, the elbow and the shoulder. According to Giordapo, 
"You cannot just be a jazz dancer. You must learn to walk before you can run and you must learn ballet before modern and jazz dance." 
Although individual members proved to be quite cooperative in the writing of this ar­ticle, the group as a whole refused to allow itself to be either observed or interviewed. "I think they refused because the whole idea of the press made some people feel threatened as to their personal anonymity or the anonymity of the group as a whole," speculated one member. 
Other gay organizations have been begun in the past at Notre Dame. However, none seem to have the dedication and sincerity that the most recent one has. During the last academic year, a group called The Gay Student Alliance was started. 
"Last year's group consisted of eight people with no visible leadership," com­mented a member of this year's group. He continued to explain his disappointment with the attitude that prevailed and the lack of understanding that they seemed to have with regard to "where Notre Dame was at." 
The Counseling Center 
Dr. Sheridan McCabe, director of the Notre Dame Counseling Center suggested that the biggest problem is answering the question, "What is homosexuality?" 
"Many men come to us because they are concerned about their virility or masculinity," said McCabe. He explained that people come in because they are upset about their confusion. "We are here to help him work out his confusion," McCabe noted. 
Referring to the "masculine image" that Notre Dame is often known for, McCabe cited the fact that this type of environment often causes anxiety in the area of sexual identity. "A guy sees all these 'studs' in his section or dorm and he begins to realize that he is not like the rest of them." However, he added that this image at Notre Dame does not necessarily attract or cause ho­mosexuality. 
McCabe explained that many students come to be counselled in changing their majors, for instance, and eventually their anxiety about homosexuality arises. "We get one or two cases a month where a man will come with a problem directly con­cerning homosexuality," he said. 
Dr. McCabe noted that very few people come to the Center for only one visit. "They usually make four or five visits until they feel their goals have been attained," he said. 
In his experience, no gay person had come in and complained of being officially per­secuted at Notre Dame. "However, there are a lot of social problems concerned with the gay life here or anywhere, for that matter," said McCabe. · 
Although McCabe does not refer gay students to any other organizations, he did say that the Center tries to remain friendly with the Gay Students of Notre Dame. 
The opinion of the staff, concerning homosexuality, differs widely according to McCabe. "Others up here are often much rriore accepting of the gay way of life than I am when consulting students," he noted. 
One Man's Story 
Tom is twenty-three years old, a second year graduate student at Notre Dame and gay. He came to this university from a small college outside Boston. 
Initially, -Tom did not come here for 
school. Rather, he came to be with someone 
whom he considered a lover , who had come 
to Notre Dame. "I intended to go back to 
school out East eventually," he said. 
"However, I looked at the program I was 
interested in, applied, was accepted and 
eventually enrolled," he continued. 
"I have had homosexual feelings as far 
back as I can remember," Tom said. He 
noted that he became more aware of his 
homosexuality when he was in his first 
years of high school. 

Tom said that it wasn't until college that 
he fully accepted his homosexuality. For 
him, accepting the gay life included gay 
sexual experiences. 

"I never belonged to any gay 
organizations when I was an undergrad," 
said Tom. He had, however, gone to many 
gay bars, attended workshops and gone to a 
couple meetings of gay groups. 
The transition into Notre Dame life was 
not an easy one, according to Tom. "I came 
from a liberal college, where I lived in a 
coed dorm, near a city that provided a lot of 
freedom to gays; to a campus that seemed 
to be hung up on sex, booze and drugs, in 
that order." 

Tom admits that at first he was filled with 
anger towards a community he was entirely 
unaccustomed to. "It took me a year and a 
half to realize that any advancements here 
would be made on a 1964level," he said. He 
noted that he felt that big-city politics would 
be of no use in advancing the position of gay · 
people at Notre Dame. 

"When I first came out here there were vey few people I could talk to about myself and where I was at," he said. Tom noted . that he and his lover could share themselves with a few people but in terms of contact with other homosexuals, "it was really dry and we were dying for a relationship with someone who knew and could appreciate 
where we were at." 

When questioned as to the connection 
between the "masculine image" of Notre 
Dame and homosexuality, Tom said that he 
knows of no one who came here explicitly 
for that reason. "However, I can see where 
that would be appealing to some," he said. 
"I think that was part of the reason I spent 
some year in the seminary," he continued. 
Tom admitted that at that time he just 
couldn't accept his sexuality. "By going to 
the seminary, I not only had a clear-cut 
vocational goal which I would get a lot of 
social approval for but I would be l iving in 
a community of men where I·would have 
intimate relationships with them, which is 
basically what I wanted at the time," he 
said. 

Tom said that at that time sex was out for 
him. "not just in terms of the seminary but 
personally, I had a hard time accepting the 
fact that I had sexual feelings." 
Although Tom was initially filled with 
anger, he has not had trouble making friends 
here. He noted that most of his friends are 
straight and know that he is gay. "I usually 
wait until I've known them for a while 
before I confront them with the fact that I'm 
gay," he said. 

Tom explained that all his friends have 
been very supportive of him but at the same 
time, they fear what will happen to him. 
"I've been warned about some people in 
particular but nothing has ever happened," 
he said. 
by andy praschak 

The old fallacy about male homosexuals having an inner hate for women seems to be just that. Tom described the relationships he has with females back home."I have very meaningful relationships with women out East who know that I'm gay. They're all women who are very important to me; they've shared a lot of themselves with me and I've shared a lot of myself with them," he said. 
Tom explained that he has not made any deep relationships with women here but blames it mainly on the fact that his position as a grad student makes it difficult. "Nonetheless, there are a few women here who know where I'm at and have been very supportive," he noted . 
More Than Meets The Eye 
Speculating on the amount of homosexuality on campus, Tom explained that it is difficult for him to say because of the fact that he is a grad student and lives off-campus. "I'm sure, however, that there is more than meets the eye," he said. 
"I don't know whether it can be classified as homosexuality but on this campus, there are a lot of guys who notice other guys," he remarked. He commented that it seems pleasurable for one male to take notice of another even though it probably doesn't register as homosexuality. "I've talked to straight men about it and they seem to agree that there's a basic unconscious homosexuality that makes one notice a good looking body, regardless of the sex," he 
u~. . Tom's main complaint at the present is 
that too many people would be inclined to judge him merely on the fact that he is gay. "People should just realize that what is 
normal for them may not be normal for someone else; it would be abnormal for me to have sexual relationships with females," he said. 
"There's a kind of myth that gay people form groups to have sex. However, the Gay Students of Notre Dame is mainly to provide social interactions," explained Tom. 
He said that he finds it really enjoyable and satisfying to see people come out and join the group. "Maybe it's a little selfish but when more people join, that's more support for me and more people to give my support to," he said. 

He calls jazz dance the "melting pot" and "a bastard child of ballet" The company's range from tap to modern rock illustrates America's jazz dancing diversity but is not confined solely to that. An evening's repetoire will also include some modern dance and ballet. As Ann Barzel wrote in a November 1972 issue of Dance Magazine 
" ... Ballet and Modern Dance are em­braced and molded in rhythms and stylistic 
/ movements of Jazz; the characteristic steps which have been developed for the past decades are part of an explosive dance language." 
The troupe of six dancers and Giordano, who is a dancer as well as artistic director, appear on stage, colorfully costumed but with no sets. The music is on tape for the repetoire which consists of twelve dance works. Typical numbers might include a dance choreographed to Civil War songs ranging from a light "Goober Peas" to a more serious "Johnny Comes Marching Home." Often, Giordano begins the program by narrating a history of the evolution of jazz dancing, co,mments which are simultaneously illustrated by the other dancers and himself. "From Ragtime to Rock" features music from the 1920's to the 1970's. One popular dance comes in a work 'entitled "Jazz Babies" and has Giordano and Debbie Hallick dancing as Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. He wears a big black hat and she sports a long blonde wig. . 
The company, formed in 1968, by Giordano is based in Wilmette, Illinois. Each year, to increasing popularity, it tours college campuses and theaters across the country. Just last summer, the group completed a successful tour of Russia. Part of a cultural exchange program between the United States and Russia, the dancers stayed for fifteen days, performing in cities from Moscow to Leningrad. Well received by the Russian audiences, Giordano said they loved "Holy, Hoppin, Halleluja," a dance from the Broadway show "Purlie." They were less enthusiastic about "New York Export: Opus Jazz" probably because they were not at all familiar with the 1950's style. 
Director-choreographer and dancer himself, Gus Giordano began dancing lessons 
at age seven and began jazz dancing as a 
student at the University of Missouri. His talent has been duly recornized with such awards as an Emmy in 1967 for his first televsion show "Requiem for a Slave." and another in 1969 for "Michelangelo: A Portrait in Dance." He is the author of American Jazz Dance, a manual on jazz dancing published by the National Council of Dance Teacher organizations. He has starred in Broadway musicals and is Director of Orion Educatioal Records and 
Dance Films. 
Wildly enthusiastic about the art, Gior­
dano strives to make each season bigger, 
alerting more people to the respectability of 
American jazz dancing. His talent as a 
dancer as well as a teacher should not be 
missed. Come to the dance concert in 
O'Laughlin Thursday night and be part of Ahe standing ovation that will applaud the Gus Giordano Dance Company. 
Tickets for the performance are$'1.50 per 
person and are available at the Student 
Union Ticket Office. Tickets will also be 
sold at the door. 

-
-
the observer Wednesday, JanuarY 22, 1975
8 
WE THE UNDERSIGNED ARE OPPOSED TO ABORTION ON DEMAND AND ARE HOPEFUL THAT THE RIGHT TO LIFE MAY BE RESTORED TO ALL UNBORN CHILDREN. 
Jim Abbatiello, AI Abbey, Jr., Barbara Abell, P. Abell, Karen M. Abraham, Peter Achacoso, Jay Achteroff, Robert Ackerman, William A. Adams, Liz Adamsen, Mary Ader, C.S.C., Timothy J. Adler, Robert E. Ahern, Jr., Jim Ahlrop, John M. Ajamle, James A. Albert, S. Albrecht, Richard P. Allocco, SalustlanoAivarez, Michael J. Amad, Michael Amaro, Tim Ambrose, Elizabeth A. Amend, Charlotte Ames, Charles Amhut, Mary Amice, C.S.C., Mary Anatholle, C.S.C., Tom Anderer, Joe Anders, Karen Anderschat, Jane Andren, Barry Andrews, Debbie Andrzyewskl, Errico Angiuonl, M. Cecilia Ann, C.S.C., M. Gerald Anne, C.S.C., Rose Anne, C.S.C., Paul L. Anthony, Robert L. Anthony, Kimberly Antlkeler, Joseph An­tonelli, Sherry Antonini, Theodore J. Antry, Tom Apper, M. Joan of Arc, C.S.C., Anne Marie Arch, Angela Archameanlt, C.S.C., VInce Arena, Michael Armstrong, Jean Arr, C.S.C., Mike Arrl, Steve Artner, Jill Asbury, William F. Askins, Dave Asmuth, Marla Assunta, C.S.C .. 
Give to the unborn their first civil right · LIFE. 
And R.J. Augsten, C.S.C., Jim Augustine, Mark J. Augustine, Lynn Auld, Mary Azar, Patrick F. Barr, Anne Backle, James L. Baclawskl, Elizabeth Bagley, C.S.C., Ralph Baird, C.S.C., Walter R. Bak, Jr., David 
L. Elaker, Judy Baker, Steven Baker, Tim Baker Thomas Balaz, C.S.C., Joseph L. Baldino, Victoria Ball, Raymond F. Baller, Steve Balls, Leonard Banas, C.S.C., Enacio Banetto, Michael Banks, VIncent J. Barbera, Margia Barbura, Betty Baren, Kathy Barker, Jo Ann Barnes, Bryan Barnett, Sue Barony, Donald Barrett, Donald B. Barrett, Joanne Barrett, Tom Barrett, VIrginia Barrett, Marguerite Barrows, Robert Barsos, Tom Barth Anna Bartzen, Sarah Bartzen, Debbie Basara, Dennis E. Basara, Tom Basile, Nicholas Bathas, Mary C. Battista, Dianne Bauchman, Nancy Bauchman, Pat Bauchman, Deane Baue, Christopher Bauer, C.S.C., Debbie Bauer, Kathleen Bauer, C.S.C., Anna Teresa Bayhouse, C.S.C., E. William Beauchamp, Paul J. Beaudette, Ann 
M. Bebenek, Sally Beckman, Jorge Bedoya, James W. Beery, Kathleen Behrens, P.E. Beichner, C.S.C., S. Beinus. 
Also, Ralph Bellamy, Molly Belstra, Rosa Maria Beltran, O.C.D., Jeffrey C. Bemis, Robert C. Bench, Marla Benedicta, C.S.C., John J. Benesh, C.S.C., Brenda Benitez, Steve Bennett, David Beno, F.L. Benton, Michelle M. Berberet, Douglas R. Berg, Kathy Berg, Jay Berger, Christopher Bergin, T. Patrick Bergin, Anne M. Bergs, Barb Berhalter, Imogene P. Berma, C.S.C., Sr. Mary Bernadette, Betsy Bernard, Catherine Bernard, Sue Bernard, Paula Berndt, Richard J. Berry, Mary Bertrand, C.S.C., Lenon Bldzenskl, Orner Bielawski, C.S.C., Imogene Bllafro, C.S.C., John Blleh, Therese Bllleau, Jean Billett, Mary Aann Blllltterl, Tom Bingle, Daniel J. Bishop, Carl Bitler, VIcki Blzzacco, Thomas E. Black, Pat Black­burn, Ann Blacker, Paul Blacker, Terri Blaha, Tom Blake, Rober M. Blanken, Thomas E. Blantz, C.S.C., Barbara Blasko, Clara Blatnik, Frank L. Bleyer, Edward J. Bllesyner, Rose Blondls, Mary Bloom, Mary Blount, Steve Blubaugh, Paul Blum, Randy Blum, Bill Blunn, Jim Blunt. 
In addition, Marsha Blythe, Catherine Bognar, C.S.C., Paul M. Bognar, Donald F. Bohlinger, Paul W. Bohn, Allee Boisvert, C.S.C., Victor J. Boisvert, C.S.C., Laura Bojan, Raymond L. Bolduc, Mary Kay Boland, Jack A. Boller, Anna Bolodar, Martlnus Bombardier, C.S.C., Sue Bona, Rita Bonventre, Ernestine J. Booker, Michael C. Borders, Dan Borelli, Marlo Borelli, Frances Borkowski, C.S.C., Paul F. Bosco, Donald Bothwell, Steve Botsford, Don Bouffard, Pam Bouf­fard, Jill A. Boughton, Chris Bowe, Bruce P. Bower, Hugh A. Boyd, Tom Boyer, Jerome M. Boyle, C.S.C., J. Robert Boyle, ·Mary Boyle, Becky Bracken, Mary Bradens, C.S.C., David A. Bradley, Diane Brady, Lori Brady, Mary Brady, Mary Beth Brady, Max Brady, Rose Ellen Brady, Camilla Braheny, C.S.C., Fra Bramant, Jay Brandenberger, Daniel A. Bratenbach, Margaret Mary Braun, C.S.C., MlchaeiE. Braun, Tom Breen, Carol Breitenbach, Wayne R. Brekkl, Joseph X. Brennan, Karen Brennan, Sheilah M. Brennan, Father Bridenstine, C.S.C., Duncan Brlggman, C.S.C., Bob Brisson, Maggie Brittan Jllllan J. Broderick, Mary Broderlc. 
And Brian Brodfeuhrer, Laurence G. Broestl, C.S.C., Stephen J. Brogan, Tom Brogan, Hilda Bromlllng, C.S.C., Elisa R. Brooks, William J. Brooks Ill, H. Brophy, Joe Brosnan, Winifred Brower, C.S.C., F.L. 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Brown, C.S.C., Ivan Brown, Marla Brown, Neal Brown, Sharon Bruce, Paul Brun, Mary Brunner, Tony Bruno, Josephine Brunzell, C.S.C., Jim Brzoska, Dave Buan, AI Bucci, Flnbarr Buckley, C.S.C., Kathy Buckley, David C. Buczynski, Barbara Ann Budde, Loretta Budzinski, Michael P. Buersmeyer, Susan Buller, Selma Bunzell, C.S.C., Bill Burke, Gerrie Burke, John C. Burke, C.S.C., M. Katherine Burke, Ted Burke, Tom Burke, Felix T. Burksage, Shiley A. Burkus, James Burtchaell, C.S.C., Debbie Buscoe, Anne Bush, Barb Bush, Bill Bush, Bob Bush, Carmellta Bush, David Bush, Elizabeth Bush, Florence Bush, Greg Bush, Jim Bush, Joe Bush, John Bush, Larry Bush, Marie Bush, C.S.C., Mary Bush, Michael K. Bush, Patricia Bush, Peter Bush, Roy A. Bush, Roy Bush, Therese Bush, Tom Bush, Kevin Butler, Margaret Butler, C.S.C., Allee Butter, C.S.C., Pamela Butterworth, Jeff Buttryn. 
Also, Cathy Buzzard, Francis Byrne, Laurlne Byrne, Marc Byrne, Tom Bryne, Sheila Byrne, Jeff Byrnett, Allee Byszewskl, Sr. Delga Cabrera, Steve Cadieux, Peggy Caenepeel, Stephen Cahlr, Marianne Cahpln, Catherine E. Caine, C.S.C., Elizabeth R. Calbrln, Val Calhoun, C.R. Callahan, C.S.C., Joh Callahan, Mary Ann Callahan, Margaret Callahan, C.S.C., Thomas Callahan, Jane Campbell, Phillip Cannata, Rita Cannata, K. Cannon, Jean Capiro, Margaret A. Capo, Raymond T. Capp, Francis C. Caprlno, Mike Caraynoff, Julie Carden, Beth Carey, Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., John E. Carey, Ray Carey, Sue Carey, David A. Carlyle, Bill Carmichael, Peggy Carmody, Mary Carmola, John Carney, Jeff Carpenter, Paula Carpenter, James. A. Carr, Mary Ann Carr, Sharon Carr, Georgette Carrall, Cathryn F. Carrigan, Ann Carroll, Mary Carson, Richard Cartlidge, Patrick D. Casey, Sean Casey, Nancy Cashhman, Dr. H.C. Casslnl, Mrs. H.C. Casslnl, David Castelli, Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C., John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Mary Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Cathy Cavenagh, Donna Davl. 
And Tim Cawley, M. Socorro Cazares, O.C.D., Cecilia Cdran, Marie Cecile, C.S.C., Thomas Cham­bers, C.S.C., Thomas M. Chambers, Thomas P. Chambers, Ken Champa, Michael G. Chanatry, Dorothy Chapleau, Richard J. Chapleau, Brain T. Chapman, Paul Charles, Gall Chase, Thomas Chenal, Rosemary Cherlnlcl, S.L., Brother Chester, C.S.C., Bill Chldlchlmo, Terease Chin, Darryl Chock, Bettie Cholaslnskl, Fred Choquette, C.S.C., Helen Christensen, R.S.M., Mary Christina, C.S.C., Joe Chuckran, Paul M. Chute, Judy Ciesielski, Mrs. Joseph Ciesielski, Gus Cifelli, Mary Jo Clnnamond, Benjamin 
N. Cittadino, Eunice M. Clula, Robert L. Civitello, Jacqule, Claire, Rita Claire, C.S.C, Brian Michael Clancy, Rick Clancy, John C. Clapp, Karllee, Clark, Mary Lynn Clark, Annette Clarke, Mary Claus, Peter Claver, C.S.C., Mrs. Robert Clay, Robert Clay, Mike Cleary, John Clemency, Tom Clemens, Fred Coad, Maureen T. Coath, Agnes Coen, C.S.C., Kathy Coen, Beatrice G. Coffey, C.S.C., Michael Coffey, Cecilia M. Cohen, Ford Cole. 
Jeff Cole, Michael Cole, Catherine Coleman, C.S.C., Mary Ann Coleman, Mary Coleman, A. Leonard Collins, C.S.C., Austin H. Collins, J. John Collins, Mary Collins, Michael Collins, Timothy L. Collins, W.K. Collins, C.S.C., Clara Colnan, Sandy Colson, Elizabeth Combs, James E. Commyn, Michael Conaty, Peggy Conboy, Joan Concannon, Marla Concepta, C.S.C., Rosemary Condon, Joe Conigliaro, Annette C. Conklin, Richard W. Conklin, Helen Conley, J. Connahan, Melanie Connell, Brian Connolly, Linda Connolly, Robert Connolly, Theresese Connolly, O.P., Helen Elizabeth Conrod, Mike Conti, Richard Conyers, C.S.C., Chris Coogan, Bill Cook, Philbert Cook, C.S.C., Mary Helen Coole,r Miriam Patrick Cooney, C.S.C., Paul G. Coppola, Leo M. Corbacl, Mike Corcoran, Monica Corcoran, Sue Corcoran, Monica Cordes, Dominick V. Corpora, Evelyn R. Corpora, James Corpora, Joseph VIto Corpora, Mary Grace Corpora, John C. Corrao, Christopher Corrigan, Timothy J. Corrigan, Joseph Cosher, Brother Cosmos, C.S.C., Carol Costa, Raymond J. Costango, Crawford Coswell, Frank Coughlin, John F. Coughlin, Sr. Barbara Counts, Raymond F. Cour, C.S.C., JohnS. Courtney, Thomas 
A. Coury, Rick Cousins, Gerard W. Cowhlg, Michael D. Cowhlg, Dan Coyne, F .J. Coyne, Maureen Coyne, Steve Coyne, Tom Coyne, David Craddlck, James Craig, Linda Crames, Rich Craney, Matthew J. Crawble, Jim Crawford, Mike Crawford, John Cray, Sr. Camilla Cray. 
In addition, Helen Creek C.S.C., Mary Kathryn Crehan, C.S.C., Pooge Cromwlck, Peter J. Crotty, Ellen Crowe, Michael J.. Crowe, Denise Crowley, Donna C::rowl~y, Kathryn M. Crumley, Cindy Cubrourc, Michael E. Culhane, Marc Cullerot, Julia Culligan, C.S.C., Linda Curgian, Ginny Curlee, Gregory L. Curme, Columba Curran, C.S.C., Mary Curtin, Margaret M. Curtis, Rick Cusick, Vlncetn P. Cuzzollni, Mark Cybulski, Mary Cyrilla, C.S.C., Philip 
C. Czajkowski, Louis M. D'Amato, R. D'Amour, Gall 
A. Dabrowiak, Joseph Daday, Stephen G. Dady, Joan Dadmun, Mary Dahm, Helen M. Dally, C.S.C., Mary Beth Dakoske, John J. Daley, Ill, Patrick G. Dalsln, Jim Dalton, Mary Beth Daly, John F. Dananan, S.E. Danden, Ray Dandrea, Stephen Dane, James P. Danehy, Richard J. Danfy, Sr. Margaret Daniels, Drew Danlk, Ron Darin, Cathy Datzman, Chris Datz­man, VIrginia David, Mary Davida, C.S.C., Craig M. Davis, James David, John Henry Davis, Laurie Davis, Michael J. Davis, Ronda Davison, Michael Davlin, Gonzaga Day, C.S.C., Aloysius Dayberry, C.S.C., Michael DeCicco, Nany DeCoster, Karen DeKoch, James Deluca, J.J. DeMattel, Stephanie DeNuff, Louis M. DeRose, Thomas B. DeStefani, Debbie Dean, Mary Catherine Dean, Thomas V. Dechant, Timothy 
F. Deess, Dave Defaccl, Catherine Degnan, C.S.C., Margaret H. Deiotte, C.S.C., Helen Deka, Steven Dell, Andrew Dempsey, Clare Dempsey, David P. Demp­sey, Jack Dempsey. 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

And Margaret Dene, Susan Denis, Arthur R. Derse, 
M. Deruckl, John E. Derwent, Jeanne Desmarais, Patrick Desmond, Thomas P. Desmond, Dave Destino, Edward J. Devin, Trlsha Devins, Joan Devore, Albert Dhaene, Mrs. Albert Dhaene, Chris DeDiana, Lynn DIGivllo, Dennis DIPalma, John Adam DIPietro, Brian Diamond, Brlgld Diamond, Eugene C. Diamond, Eugene F. Diamond, Erin Diamond, Mark Diamond, Mary Beth Diamond, Megann Diamond, Moira Olamon, Peter Diamond, Rosemary Diamond, Sea Diamond, Sheila Diamond, Terry Diamond, Timmy Diamond, Tom Digan, Sue Dlllenberry, Bernard F. Dincher, Margaret Dlneer, John Dlsser, C.S.C., Glenna Dlannoy, C.S.C., David Doemel, John Doherty, William Doherty, C.S.C., Ivan Dolan, C.S.C., Bettey Dolezal, Mike Dollck, Ellen Dolores, C.S.C., Sr. Miriam Dolores, Mary Dolorllda, C.S.C., Mary Doman, Joseph Domine, Mrs. Joseph Domine, Ber­nard Donahoe, C.S.C., Terry Donahue, Joseph Don­nelly, Mary E. Donnelly, Mary Donnelly, Deirdre Donoghue, Jeitn P. Donohue, Erin Donovan, John C. Donovan, Kelren Donovan, Mary Jo Donovan, William 
M. Dooley, Kathy Dooling, Martin E. Doran, Megan Dore, William J. Dotar, J. P. Doughtery, Inez Douglas, John G. Dowd, Mike Dowgert. 
Also, Peter E. Dowling, Iva Laverne Downs, C.S.C., Mary Eleanor Downs, C.S.C., Gera,d Doyle, Kevin T. Doyle, Kevin Doyle, Michael Doyle, Patrick Doyle, Paul F. Doyle, C.S.C., Deanne Dragoun, Susan Drake, Barb Drassel, Nancy Draves, Cindy Drew, Elizabeth Drew, Francisco Drury, C.S.C., Allan Duber, Bob Ducanls, Anne Duensing, Jane Duensing, Dan Duffin, Rick Dullanty, Liz Dumelle, Deborah Dunlap, Mary Dunlap, Melody Dunlap, Jane Dunlay, Kathleen Dunleavy, Julie Dunn, Loretto M. Dunn, C.S.C., Mary 
P. Dunn, Cary Dupont, Clarence R. Durbin, C.S.C., Charles B. Durocher, John Dutton, Scott L. Dutton, Dorothy Ann Dwyer, Helen Dwyer, C.S.C., Joan T. Dwyer, Mrs. W. Dwyer, William F. Dwyer, Hedwig Dzymanski, C.S.C., Jim Early, Herbert Eastman, Judy Echelhamp, Stephen A. Eckard, Robert Edelmann, Charles Edwards, Elvia Egoavll, Tim Eherz, Jacqueline Eickholt, John F. Eldt, Melarlc Eifel, C.S.C., Rose Mary Elias, Kathleen Anne Elllgan, C.S.C., James Ellison, C.S.C., Timothy P. Ellison, Sheila Elsner, Mary Emlch, Albert V. Emlllan, Maureen Engeln. 
And Julie Englehart, Sam Englert, C.S.C., Joseph E. Enright, Patricia J. Enright, Joanne Erdmann, John Erickson, Juanita Ernst, Robert Ernst, Russ Ernst, Jeff Etoll, EK, Ettheran, Joseph W. Evans, David G. Evelugh, Dave Everingham, Mark Ewald, Marguerite Ewen, C.S.C., Kathy Faccenda, Philip J. Faccenda, Colleen Fahey, Connie Fahey, David Fahey, Mar­celllnus Fahey, C.S.C., Mike Fahey, Sheila Fahey, Sue Fahrenbach, Jeanne P. Fahy Donald J. Faley, Bill Fallon, Joe Fallon, William H. Fallon, Patricia Falvey, Andrew John Fama, Terry Fanholm, Allan Fanjoy, Dom Fanuele, Mark Grove Fargo, Genevieve Farrelly, C.S.C., Lynn Farrell, Shanon Farrell, Jack Farron, John Fattl, Ed Fayen, Patricia Fazzone, Sharon Feater, Richard Feduska, Mike Feller, Bertha 
B. Feltes, C.S.C., Jennifer Fencl, Christopher J. Fenn, Mary Fenton, Michael D. Feord, Mary Ellen Ference, Diane Feret, Theresa Ferra, George Ferreiro, John Ferreiro, Suse Ferrel Mortimer A. Ferrick, C.S.C., Mary Louise Fetch, C.S.C., Joseph H. Fey, C.S.C. 
For the triumph of evil, 


all that is necessary is for good men to do nothing. 
EDMUND BURKE 
Ano Brother Seraphim, C.S.C., Ron Serger, Lous Sertech, Fritz Shadley, Paul Shafer, Thomas Shaffer, Paula Shaheen, Coleen Shannahan, James R. Shanahan, Brian Shappell, Loretta Shattery, C.S.C., 
E.F. 
Shaugnnessy Ill, John Shaughnessy, Michael Shaw, Mary Pat Shea, Elizabeth M. Sheehan, Patricia Sheehan, MarySheeran, Tom Sheffield, Larry Shepard, Pat Sheperd, Janet Sherman, Patrick J. Shields, James L. Shipley, Peter J. Shirk, Elizabeth Shore, C.S.C., Brian Short, Carolyn P. Short, Mary Short, William Shults, Mark I. Shupe, David J. Sickle, 

K. 
Slckowskl, Joseph A. Sldera, C.S.C., Robert Siegel, C.S.C., Nancy Siegler, Agnes Steradzka, C.S.C., Joh n 

H. 
Steve, Genevieve Slglawskl, Bill Signarelll, David Stlllls, Mark Sllody, Mary Jo Sllvani, Carol Simmons, Jeanie Simon, Sharon L. Simon, Ruth A. Slmonel, Stephen Simone, Mary Jo Slncy, Norbert J. Slnskl, C.S.C., Mark Slnski, William Albert Siskovic, Richard Sitar, C.S.C., Renee Slttley, Bruce Skeldon, Jane Skelly, Katherine M. Skiba, Deborah Slaton and Loretta Slattery, C.S.C. 


. 

------------------·---;
~ 
9

Wednesday, January 22, 1975 the observer 
IN MEMORIAM 

Two years ago today the U. S. Supreme Court legalized abortion in a decision that shocked the nation. The decision rendered unconstitutional the state laws which had restricted abortion. In effect the Court wiped out most State Abortion laws and now a woman may have "Abortion on Demand" during the first six months of her pregnancy. The Supreme Court ruling allows the states to prohibit abortion in the last three months except when the life or health of the mother is endangered. Today there is no legal protection for the innocent unborn child's right to live. Father Hesburgh will concelebrate a mass tonight at Sacred Heart Church at 8:00 P. M. for The Right to Life. All are invited to participate. 
WHAT YOU CAN DO 
1. 
Support a United States Constitutional Human Life Amendment. 

2. 
Sign your name and address and mail these pages to one of your U.S. Senators. 

3. 
Research for yourself the positive soluti<.Jns to abortion ond attend the presentation L.I.F.E. will give in your hall. 

4. 
Clip this coupon and loin L.I.F.E. {Life is for Everyone). 


We thank those whose support is printed on the opposite & following pages. 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Name 
Address 
Notre Dame-St. Mary's L.I.F.E. 3 2 3 Stanford H a II N o t r e D a m e In d . 4 6 5 5 6 

j 
I 
l 
j 

l 
I 
l 
j 
j 

i ~ 
I 
In andltlon, Karen Field, Suzanne Fields, Kevin Finan. Regina Fink, Mary C. Finke, Marvin E. Finn, Mary E. Finnegan, Sheila Finneran, M. Jeanne Fln­skey, r..s.c. Kevin Finucane, Chuck Flons-, Joe Fiorell 1, Charlie Fischer, Alan Fisher, Elizabeth Ann Fisher, C.S.C., Marc Fisher, PaulS. Fisher, Veronlce Fisher, C.S.C., Veronica Fisher, C.S.C., Mark J. Fit­zgerald C.S.C., Mike Fitzgerald, Neal L. Fitzgerald, John Fizy, Marlene Flager, James Flanigan, C.S.C., Elizabeth Flannery, C.S.C., Jane Fleck, Brenda Fleece. Daniel J. Flint, Mary Flowers, Cecilia Flynn, C.S.C., Bill Fogarty, A. Michael Foley, Ann Foley, Bonaventure Foley, C.S.C., Esther Foley, C.S.C., Gerald Foil, M.A. Foran, C.S.C., Peggy Foran, Lawrence J. Foreman, Thomas F. Forlstel, Joe Forman, Edward A. Forszt, Jr., Bob Foster, Emily Foster, James K. Foster, Mary Theres-e Foster, Silvana M. Fotl, Sharon Fowler, Mary Frain, Roduez Frances, Rosemarie L. Frances, B. Fras-er, Patti Frawley, Julie Freco, C.S.C., Ellen Freeman, Mort Freen. Kathryn C. French, William P. Frerking, Jim Frltsck, Edward Fritzen, Gall Fromm, Frances Frost, Marianne Frost, Claudia Fryback, Brian Furlo, Jos-eph Furlong, Sr. Benigna Furst, Mary Futen, 
Robert Futte, Richard Babblanelli, Mike Gabor, James Gabreskl, Michael Gaffrey, James L. Gajewski, Clara Galabowskl, Fred L. Galanga, Diane Galdlkas. Paul M. Gales, Helen V. Gallaher, John Gallagher, Patricia Gallagher, Sharon Ann Gallagher, Victor Galvez, Sr. Agnes Gnse, F.J. Gantner, Jos-eph 
N. Garan, C.S.C., Gregory G. Garcia, Juan Garcia Paredes, Mark Gargnla, Marla Garlock. C.S.C., Frank Gartland, C.S.C., Sharon F. Garvey, John Garvlck, Sandra L. Garvlck, Michael Gassman, Sheila Gavan, -Pamesla Gavelda, Francis D. Gaynor, J.M. Gearin, 
The March for Life January 22, 1975 
The red rose has become a symbol of LIFE throughout our Nation and especially on Capitol Hill. 
Maureen Geary, Mike Geers, Wendy Geiger, John Gelcon, W. Michael George Cary M. Gerber, John C. Gerber, C.S.C., Peter J. Gergel, Laurie Germanos, Francis Gertrude, C.S.C., Elizabeth Gettler, C.S.C., Tom Gettings, Jenna Getz. Mary Sue Gezlch, Earl Ghaster, Jr. 
Including Melinda Gianni, John Glannotte, Mrs. John Glanotte, Greg Gibbons. Katharine Gibbons, C.S.CC., Lisa Giblin, Mark Gibson, Francine Gldel, Theresa Gildner, Glorlan Gill, C.S.C. Julie Gill, Tom Gil!. Patrick P. Giordano, Patrick P. Glore, James R. Glttzers, Timothy Glass, Lucille Gleason, C.S.C., Mike Glynn, Denise Gwladek, David Goeckl, Jos-eph K. Goepfrlch, E.A. Goerner, Walter Goff, C.S.C., Augusto Gonzalez, William J. Gonzenbach, K.E. Goodpaster, Greer G. Gordon Gall Gore, Leslie Gores, Tim Gorle, Lisa Gorlan, J. Eugene Gorman, Leo W. Gorman, C.S.C., Eugene Gorski, C.S.C., Brett Gossen, Kurt Gotta, Mary Ann Grabavoy, Kathleen M. Grace, Susan Grace, Mary E. Grady, Mike T. Grady, Teresa Grady, Patti Graff, Mike Graham, Annette Grande, Most Rev. 
L. Graner, C.S.C., Jean E. Granfield, Terry Grant, Anthony, R. Grasso, C.S.C., Patricia Greaney, Sue Greco, Cassandra Green, Daniel J. Green, Jr., VIrginia Green, C.S.C., Stella Gregorowics, Gordon J. Grieshaber, Terese Griffen. 
And Dolores Griffin, Lisa Griffin, Dwight Griffin, Pamela Grffln, R.E. Griffin, Thomas C. Grimm, Roderick Grlx, C.S.C., Gary A. Groams, Louis Groden, Paul T. Grogan, Rita K. Grontkowskl, Jan Gross, Betty Groves, D.C. Growe, Anne Marie Grunert, Leo Guarnieri, C.S.C., Jos-eph J. Guentert, Mary E. Guentert, Paul J. Guenther, Jim Guertzls, John Guido, Paul Guidone, Richard Gulltlnan, Anne Gullicks-on, Robert Gumerlock, Edith Gunan, James Guthrie, Barbara Gutschow, Allee B. Gyarmathy, C.S.C., Peter Habenclht, Maureen Hbaer, Frank J. Habig, Carol Hackett, Ken Haders, David Hadley. 
And Randy Haefner, Ken Haffey, Regina M. Haffey, Lisa Hagen, James Alan Hagene, Anna Hagerty, C.S.C., Cornelius Hagerty, C.S.C., Bill Hake, Jim Haley, J. Patrick Hall, Mary Esther Hall, John Hallls, Diane Halltwell, Missy Halper, Robert Hames, VIrginia L. Hamill, Anne Hamilton, Lee Hemmerling, Steve Hammersteln, Bill Hanagan, Ellen Hanagan, ~. Gregory Hannigan, Mike Hannigan, Mrs. E. Hannigan, Carol Hannon, Helen Jean Hans-en, Mary Elizabeth Hansen, C.S.C., Mary Hansen, Thomas R. Hans-en, Betsy Hans-er, Jack Hanzel, Cathy Harahan, Elaine Harcus. Gary M. Harden, Alfonso W. Hardl, John Hardin, John A. Harding, Becky Harley, Imelda P. Harmon, C.S.C., Karen Harrington, Janet aHarrls, Kenny Harris, Catherine M. Harroun, Brenda Hart­man, Jan Hartzell, A.S. Harvey, C.S.C., Michael Harvey, Michael J. Harvey, John Hasbrouck, Marllan Hasch, J. Christopher Hastings, Claire Hatch, Dan Haugh, Judith Hawes, Daniel T. Hayden, Gerry Hayden, Otto Hayden, C.S.C. VIvian Hayes. 
Also, Beth Healy, Edward M.E. Healy, James C. Healy, C.S.C., Jean Healy, Meredith Healy, Patricia H. Healy, Tim Healy, M.P. Hegarty, C.S.C., M. Francis Helene, C.S.C., Donelle Hempen, Johanna Henderson, C.S.C., Diana Hendrickson, James Henegatl, Mary C. Henner, Carol Hennesssy, John G. Hennessy, Patty Hennessy, John R. Hennigan, George F. Hennlon, Eugene W. Henry, Philip Hens-eler, J. Hen-sler Chris Herald, Colette Herted, C.S.C., Cecilia Hertel, C.S.C., Ros-emary Herzog, T.M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Cindy Hesch, Bill Heylman, Bill Hickey, Tom Hickey, Cathy Hicks, Ellen Hicks, John Hlctner, Valerie Hlctner, Margaret Higgins, William S. Higgins, Steve M. Highsmith, Catherln Hill, C.S.C., Mark Hill, Liz Hln-
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

ders, R. Thomas Hines, Mary Beatrice Hipskind, C.S.C., Karen Hoare, Dick Hockman, David Hoelzlnger, Art Hoestery, Catherine C. Hoey, C.S.C., James Hoferd, George H. Hoff, Gertrude Hoff, C.S.C., Estelle Marie Hoffman, C.S.C., Jerry Hoffman, Jos-eph Hoffman, C.S.C., Mrs. Ethel Hoffman, Sally Hoffman, Michael E. Hofman, Anne Bridget Hogan, Jos-eph C. Hogan, Marti Hogan, Richard F. Hogan, Robert J. Hogan. 
Including Sr. Jeanette Holbrach, John P. Holbrook, Agnes, Holcomb, Dolores Holcomb, John Holm, James 
J. Holmberg, Naomi Holthouse, C.S.C., Jim Hoolthan, Jim Hora, J. Patrick Horan, William C. Horan, Ill, Michael Horgan, Mrs. William Horgan, Peggy Horn­back, Arlene M. Horning, Mickey Horten Kevin Horton, Kathy Horawath, Kevin Hos-ey, H. Hoslnskl, Janice Hoskl, T.E. Houghton, Mike Houll, Mike Housley, Barbara Howald, Arthur J. Howard, Stephanie, A. Howard, Theodore A. Howard, Dave Howe, Rick Huber, Helen Hubler, C.S.C., Susan Ann Hudak, Stephen A. Huccock, Jos-eph H. Huebner, Clifford J. Huendos, Elizabeth Huffman, C.S.C., Steven Hughes, Michael Huguelet, Steve Huk, Tom Human, Gregory Hummer, M.B. Humphrey, Billie Hundere, H. Hunkllng, Jeff Hunt, Richard J. Hunter, Russ Hun­finger, Steven J. Hurd, Barbara Hutter, John Hutton, Hane Hyde, Melinda Hyde, Nell Hyland, Jr., Leo Hynes. Steve landolo. 
Also, Paul J. lawehls, Loretta lgaz, Mark Illig, Mar(orla A. In, Juan lnchauste, Ronald lnchauste, Betty L. lnghels, Dorothy Male lnkman, C.S.C., Kerry lrr, Bill Irvine, Brian S. Isham, Karol Jackowski, C.S.C., Norma C. Jacobs, C.S.C., Steffl Jacquay, Mark Jahne, Barbara Jakubowksl, Lelia Jallad, Mary Janca, Mark Janko, Father Jandowskl, C.S.C., Kathy Janotta, Anita Jaworski, Joan Jaworski, M. Guadalupe, Jayme, O.C.D., M. Cella Jayme, O.C.D., John Paul Jeffrey, Eve Jehle, Diane Jenls. Annette Jenkins, Debra J. Jenkins, Robin E. Jenkins, Grace I. Jennings. C.S.C., Richard Hebert Jennings, E.W. Jerger, Gregory F. Jewell, Mrs. Paul A. Jewell, Donna Jlaunds, Elton Johnson, Terrence M. Johnson, Herbert Johnston, James P. Johnsten, Mary Johnston, Carmen 
L. Jones, John Miriam Jones, S.C., Kenneth Jones, Marjorie Jones, C.S.C., Thomas P. Jones, C.S.C., Pauline Joyce, Sheryl Joyner, John Juarez, Jr., Stephen R. Judge, Sheila Julien, Mary Justine, C.S.C., Delphine Kacgmarck, Lisa Kadansky, Ann Kaiser, Larry Ka(s, Judy Kall, Kevin Kamen. 
In addition, Bill Kane Clement E. Kane, C.S.C., Deborah Kane, Jay J. Kane, Matthew F. Kane, Theodore Kapes, C.S.C., Dina Kapp, Michael J. Karels, Barbara Kavanaugh, Thomas Kavanaugh, Tressa Kavanaugh, C.S.C., Kathleen A. Kearney, Patrick J. Keating, Mary Anne Keefe, K. Keenan, Mary Merrlsse Keenan, Mary Ellen Keenan, Terry Keeney, Kathy Keichak, Conrad Kellenber.g, E.A. Keller, C.S.C., Stephen Kellett, Chrlsilan Kelly, Dave Kelly, Donna Kelly, Elizabeth Kelly, C.S.C., Kathleen Kelly, M. Cecilia Kelly, C.S.C. Mary Kay Kelly, Paul Kelly, Robert A. Kelly, SandyKelly, Robert A. Kelly, Sandy Kelly, Sr. Kathleen Kenkel, John J. Kennedy, Kevin J. Kenney, Mary Kenney, Steve Kenney, Jonathan Kenny, Doug Kenyon, Michael Kepfelle, Claudia Keppel, Robert L. Kerby, Greg Kerr, Lawrence D. Kerrigan, Stephen Kerten, Ron Kerver, Judy Kessler, Steve Kestalno, l<athy Keyes, Loretta Kiefer, C. S.C., Steven Klepe, Peter Klerl, David L. Kll, Elaine Kilmer, Raymond J. Kllway, K.S. Kim, Jim Klneally, Bob King, Diane King. 
Including Elizabeth King, Jim King, Terrence M. King, Kathy Kinney, Tom Klnschmlr, Dan Kinsella, Irene Kintz, Mary Kirch, Mary Kissane, C.S.C., Dennis Klee, Eileen Klee, Cheryl Klein, Kathy Klein, Mary J.Kieln, Edward A. Kline, Joe Klochenkemser, Mary Beth Klug, K. Kluguna, Richard Knee, James L. Knighton, Sharon knight, Janice Knights, Margaret Knowles, Monica Knowles, Albert P. Koch, Art Koebel, Ed Koehler, Pat Koehler, C.S.C., Ronan Koenlgsknect, C.S.C., Jerome Philip Kohl, Bob Komaslnskl, Martha Komora, Urban C. Konlelzrby, VIrginia Konvlcka, C.S.C., Mike Koons, Natalie Kopinski, Kathryn A. Korkumel, Jack Koval, Barbara Kowalski, Julie Kowleskl, John R. Kraft, Linda Kraus, Edward Kraus, Michael Dremls, Mark F. Kreplck, Mike Kroft, Janeen Kromkowskl, Judy Kronnenwetter, Mark Kruklel, Paul Krus-e, D.J. Kruyer, Mary Ann Kubica, Patti Kubus, Karen Kucharczuk, Pamela Kuemln, Tim Kulchar. 
And Patty Kulik, Mark Kulyk, Sr. Norlene M. Kunkel, Marie E. Kurtenbach, C.S.C., Thomas S. Kusnlerczyk, John Kydle, Richard Kyle, C.S.C., Robert J. LaBarge, Klreken Laast, Cynthia Labriola, Doreen Lacey, Antonio Lacson De Vera, M. Remedios Laguna, O.C.D., John F. Lahey, C.S.C., James Kakophan, C.S.C., Terry Lally, C.S.C., Richard A. Lamanna, Maureen Lamb, Dine Lampe, Paul Lancos, Pat Landfried, Thomas G. Landry, James D. Land­sberg, Rick Lane, VIncent Lang, Emma Langen~, C.S.C., George Langmuir, Kenneth R. Larcer, Brenda Lardy, Richard Laslvla, Ellen Lasky, Maureen Lathers, Halleus Latrax, Carol La!ronlca, Greg Lauer, Dennis Laughlin, Dorothy Laughlin, Sue Laughlin, John Lavalle, C.S.C., Lucy Lavalle, Mike Lavelle, Nancy Lavalle, Steve Lavender, Beth Lavlns, Genlevleve Lawless, C.S.C, Ellen A. Lawlor, Richard Larence, Eileen Lawton, John Layby, Sr. Mary Joan Le Blanc, Albert LeMay, Marcia A. LeMay, Robert Leader, Michael Leahy, Ros-emarie Leake, Mike Leary, Terry Leary, Mike Lebledz, Beth Lechtenfels, Jeanette Lector, C.S.C., Elizabeth Ledereg, Henrietta Ledres, C.S.C., Lewis B. Lelmelster, C.S.C., Martha Lelldert, Craig R. Lem, Paul Lemieux, Judy Lem-
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


merman, Agnes Lengevlch, C.S.C., Dan Lennon, Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Susy Leonard, Louise Leslie, Mary Letaurneau, Andy Levlelle, C.S.C., Dave Lewis Jay Leyden, Carol Llchtonskl, Larry Llebscher, Mary Fran Llebscher, Tom Llllen, Barb Llncer, Marie Llndorfer, C.S.C., Chris Linford, Thomas Lionel II, Lori Liston, Richard F.· Litzinger, C. S.C., Bill Lloyd, Richard W. Locke, Francis E. Loftus, John Lombard, David Londergan, Joe Longenfeld, E. Lonngan, Paul Loos, C.S.C., Jorge Lopez, Joe Loplna Fred Loveland, Gary Low, Joe Lowndes, Sherry Loy, Elaine Lubbers, John Lubbers, C.S.C., Mary Ann Lubowy, Beth Lub­sches. 
And Mark Lucas, Stephen Lucero, Brother Lucldus, C.S.C., Sr. Mary Lucille, Thomas Luckan, Bill Luegers, Jeff Lukken, Lynn Lukmann, George Lund, Mary Beth Lunter, Valerie Luscombe, John Lushls, Tom Lux, Bob Lynch, Bary Beth Lyons, Kim Lynch, Mark Lynch, John Lyon, James M. Lyons, Mike Lyons, Mariam Kathryn Lythe, C.S.C., Marion MacAipln, Leo MacCourtney, Amy MacDonald, Anna MacGorden. C.S.C., Kim MacKinne, Joan MacNeill, C.S.C., Bill MacAuley, John A. Macheca, Robert Mach, Joanne Mackay, Marcia Mackdonald, Charles W. Mackett, Daniel E. Mackie, Jr., Mike Madden, Cathy Maddox, Bob Badera, Charles W. Magner, Mrs. Marie Magner, Carolyn Magnuson, Francis Maguire, Stephen M. Maher, Teresa Maher, David Hahler, Michael P. Mahoney, Patty Mahoney, Mary Maier, Evelyne M. Main, Jerome Majewski, Anthony E. Malench, George 
F. Maliszewski, Steve Malkiewicz, O.F.M., Cathy Malkus, Michael B. Mallard!, Borromeo Malley, C.S.C., Kevin J. Malloy, Carol Malone, John R. Malone, Grace Maloney, Robert Malone, C.S.C. Maureen Maloney, Patrick Maloney, C.S.C., Faye Maloof, Eileen Manct, C.S.C., Alma Mang, C.S.C., Chris Manion, Beth Manning, Emma Mannon, C.S.C., Lisa Mara, Karen Maranc, Thaddeus Marclnlaka, Mary Marco, C.S.C., Mary Margaretta , C.S.C., Sue Margiotta, John J. Margraf, C.S.C., Mary Marguerite, C.S.C., Sr. Mary Marguerite, I.H.M., M. Marianna, C.S.C., Bernadette Marie, C.S.C., Dorothy Maries, C.S.C., Momes Marie, C.S.C., Louis W. Marks Ill, Tom Marme. 
Also, C. Marmeof, Beth Marren, Amy, Martin, Angelica Martinez, Cheryl Martin, Gerard Martin, Joe Martin, Mike Martini, Steve Martinez, Mary Elizabeth Martucci, Paul Martuscello, Paula Marut, Greg Marx, VIncent Mary, C.S.C., Kevin Massarelll, Glgl Mass-e, Cecil B. Mast, Eileen Masterman, C.S.C., Nora Mat­thews, William N. Matthews, C.S.C., Susan Maude, Anne E.C. Mayer, Raymond Jay Mayor, Mary Sue McAnallen, Larry McAndress, Jim McArdle, John F. McBride, Chris McCabe, Ann McCarry, C. McCarragher, C.S.C., Daniel McCarty, Kit McCarthy, Mary Meg McCarthy, Peter X. McCarthy, Timothy S. McCarthy, Cathy McCarrtln, John McCartin, Julie McCary, June H. McCauslin, Jim McCloskey, Charles 
W. McCollester, Carolyn McConnell, Brian J. Mccorry Mary McCormick, Susie McCormick, Larry McCrlef, Anna McCue, C.S.C., Justine McCue, C.S.C., John McCutchen, Mary McDaniel, Bob MeDer, Joan McDermott, Tim J. McDevitt, Tim McDevitt, Carolyn McDonough, James McDonald, Mike McDonald, Susan McDonald, 
In addition, Kevin McDonnell, A.M. McDowell, C.S.C., James T. McEntee, Barbara Ann McEveary, C.S.C., Edward R. McGah, Larry McGahey, Robert Jose McGann. Michael McGarry, Connal McGee, Anna McGienon. C.S.C., Mary Jo McGiew, Anne McGrath, 
J.J. McGrath C.S.C., Julie McGrath, Joseph McGrath, Tim McGrail, M.J. McGrony, Kathleen McGugan, Bob McGuire, Kevin J. McGuire, Mary McGuire, Terry McHale, Genevieve McHoffey, C.S.C., Chris McHon, Ralph Mcinerny, Dennis Mcintire, Thomas P. Mcintyre, J. Matthew McKenzie, Julie McKinley, Philip McKiernan, Sean Mclinden, Christopher McMackin, Meg McManus, Mike McManus, James McMenamin. Michael McNally, Thorn McNally, C.S.C., Joseph McNamara, William McNeun, Ben­jamin McNulty, CS.C., Patrick H. McNulty, Joan McPubffe, David A. Medley, Franci~ Medurl, C.S.C., Jlm Meehan, Michael Meehan, Patrick Mehigan, Johanna Meisel, C.S.C., Steve Melskey, Mary Meizllla, 
Jim  Mella,  Paul  Mellema,  Martin  J..  Mellett,  Bill  
Melody, C.S.C.,  JoAnn Melody,  Kevin  Melson  and  
Kathy Mercer.  '.  


, •• ~'"'\-.ri/-I•'•"'• .. ••At-',1.11 II II_ .. f 1-·· ··~· •., .......~, .. , ...... _ .. _ .. _,_,. ··• • 
. . 
-,r ;r. 
Wednesday, Januarv 22, 1975 the observer 1 1 
In addition, Mary Mercete, C.S.C., Mildred Meredith, C.S.C., Ann Merleney, Larry Merring1on, Helen Merslts, Dale Merten, Diana Merten, Leon Mertensotto, C. S.C., Dough Meyers, Matthew Micerlli, 
C.S.C .• Bill Michel, Dave Micksch. Emily Midili, Nancy Mielcarek, Marla Lisa Mignanelll, Joan Milani, Kathleen Militello, Timothy James Millen, Betty Miller. Joan Miller, Joseph Miller, C.S.C., Tony Miller, Kathy Mills, Scott Milnes, Margaret J. Milos, Mrs. Robert Milos, Jeanne P. Minahan, Mary E. Minter, Carol Misiell, Pat Miskell, Marsha Mitchell, Thomas Mittendorf, C.S.C., Dennis J. Mizdall, Tom Modglin, Brian Moeh, Jim Moellering, Nancy R. Mogab, Lorraine Moleski, Sue Mollo, Anna Monardo, David Moncine, R. Monforton, Steven Moninghoff, B. Keefe Montgomery, Margee Montgomery, Margie Mon­tgomery, Mauro Montgomery, Rita L. Montgomery, Schu Montgomery Jr., S.A. Montgomery, Mary Beth Montroy, Mary K. Mooan, C.S.C., Peter Moody, Judy Moon, Coleen Mooney, Edward J. Moore, Jr., E.E. Moore, Judith Moore and Lisa Moore. 
And Peggy Moore, Quentin Moore, Thomas Moore, Rodolfo Morales, Betty Moran, Conan Moran, C.S.C., Sheila Moran, Alfred Moreau, Craig Moreland, Federico Moreno, Ed Morgan. Donn Moroz, Maureen Morris, Wayne Morrison, William T. Morrissey, Lyn Morse, Joseph P. Moses, Michael F. Moses, Mary Ellen Mosher, Phyllis Mosley, Nancy Mossman, Kathleen Mowney, C.S.C., Bob Muellner, Patricia Muench, Rosaleen Muench, Kathleen Mullaney, Carl 
There is no life that is 
not WOrth living. DR. TOM HILGERS 
Mullay, Chip Mulle, Mary Lou Mulvihill, Donald Mulvihill, Hal Munger, Mary Mungovan, M. Mortina Munoz, O.C.D., Peggy Munten, Paul Murano, R.J. Murogac, Ann Murphy, Bill Murphy, Byrne Murphy, Charles Murphy, Charles P. Murphy, Christopher Murphy, Edward J. Murphy, Gloria Murphy, Jlm Murphy, Marianne Murphy, Marilyn Murphy, Marianne Murphy, Mary Eileen Murphy, Michael Tunes Murphy, Michael J. Murphy, C.S.C., Nancy Murphy, Peter Murphy, Sheila Murphy, Terry Mur­phy, Thomas T. Murphy Ill, Timothy J. Murphy and Edmund J. Murray, C.S.C. 
Also Frank Murray, Mary Ellen Murray, William M. Murray, Simon Murren, C.S.C., Pat Myers, Michael J. Nachman, Karen M. Nagel, Jeanie Nagy, Christopher Nalley, A.P. Napolitano, O.K. Napolitano, Edward C. Narret, Bill Naughton, Mark J. Navarre, Nancy Naville, Beth Neary, John Neary, Mary Ellen Nebb, C.S.C., Bob Neff, Mark Neff, Roy Nell, Susannah M. Nelson, Patraicia Nemasto, Sharon Nerusy, William Nester, P. Neular, Susan Newbould, Walter Nicgorski, Joan Nickel, Kim S. Nicodemus, James Niemi, Mrs. James Niemi, Bernard Niemles , C.S.C., Leonard R. Niemiec, Rosemarie Niethammer, M. Leor Nieto, O.C.D., Peter Ninneman, John Noell, Lisa Nofp, D.C. Nokes, Cathy Nolan, John Nolan, Patrick W. Nook, Mary Noonan, C.S.C., Maurice Noonan Ill, Janie Noremann, Patrick Novitzki, GaryNovotny, Tom Novy, David Nowad, Mary Nowalk, Michael Nuclean, Janice Nuehrlng, Richard F. Nugent, Michael Nutz and Denis O'Brien. 
Including James T. O'Brien; Joseph N. O'Brien, Mary J. O'Brien, C.S.C .• Margaret O'Brien, Maureen O'Brien, Patty O'Brien, W.J. O'Brien, Candy O'Con­nor, Edward O'Connor C.S.C., J. Salkeld O'Connell, John O'Connor, John P. O'Connell, Kitty B. O'Connell, Mary O'Connor, Patrick E. O'Connor, Stephen M. O'Connell, Ivy O'Dell. Bridget O'Donnell, Terry O'Donnell, S.F.M., John O'Fiaherty, C.S.C., Kathleen O'Grady, J. O'Halloron, C.S.C., Mary Beth O'Hara, 
R.R. 
O'Hara, David O'Keefe, Daniel J. O'Leary, John O'Lear, Daniel J. O'Neil, C.S.C., Joe O'Neill, Maryanne O'Neill, C.S.C., Maryann O'Neil' Michael O'Neill, Patrick O'Neill, Tom Tom O'Neill, Kathleen 

G. 
O'Reilley, Joanne O'Rourke, Nancy O'Rourke, Daniel O'Sullivan, Joan Oblalo, Marlon Oborny, Sally Jane Obringer, Sue Odmark, John A. Oesterle, Michael J. Offer. Dave Oleaz, Ray Olin, Chrishan Olllvry, Helene Olllvry, Peter Olson, Mary Ann O'Reilly, Michael T. Orlando, Annette Ortensteln, Anthony Ostric, Carl Oswald, Doran Ott, Joyce E. Overmyer and Cathy Owens. 


Dennis Owens, Janet Oxenreiter, Joan Oxenrelter, George C. Packard, Just Paczesny, C.S.C., Pedro Pajols, Shirley Pakel, Bernard Palka, S.A., Darlene Marie Palma, Susan Palmieri, Irene Panke, Tim Panzica, Kathie Paonl, Nick Paoni, Diane Papiernik, Jim Paraskeras, David Parchem, Dorothy Parchem, Joe Parclka, Mary P. Parillo, Juanita B. Parisi, Peggy Parker, Charles S. Parnell, Madeline Parnell, Michele Parnell, Simone Parnell, Gary Parulta, Daniel T. Pasinger, William Paszek, C.S.C., Bill Paterno, Dianne Patnaude, P Ray Patnaude, Reynold B. Pat­tillo, Chuck Patton, Karen Anne Paul, S.C., T.R. Paulding, T.R. Paulding Jr., Michael J. Paullus, Lucille Paulson, AlP Paulus, Bob Pavlak, Paul M. Pavlov, Colette Pawlak, Donald R. Pawsback, Paula Payne, Lisa Pearl, Brian Pearsall, John Pearse, Margaret Ann Pearson, C.S.C., Steve Pecinovsky, Michael Peechnlk, Robert S. Pelton, c.S.C., Jack Penca, Mary Margaret Pender, M. Refugio Perez, O.C.D., Denise Peterson, Mark Peterson, Randall J. Petrides, Gary Petrole, Kathy Pfelpper, John Phelan and Margaret M. Phelan, C.S.C. and Digger Phelps. 
Also lncludine Mime Philbin, John J. Philippsen, Mike Phillips, Tony Phillips, Sue Picton, Albert M. Piedra II, Rene Alberto G. Pina, Mary Pinard, Charles 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Pittinger, Jane Pitz, C.S.J., Mary Ann Pizza, Philip R. Pladna, Stephen E. Plain, Ray Planell, D.M. Planica, Nancy Poblochl, Jan Poirier, John A. Poirier, L. Polman, Tim Poltock, Fidelis Pommier, C.S.C., Carolyn M. Popp, Jullar1a Porretta, James R. Pouliot, Barry Poupore, Pam Powell, John R. Power, Maureen Power, Kathy Powers, Peggi Powers, Wayne Powers, Betty Praklet, Dan Prebish, Fran Prelepa, Pat Prendergast, Kathy Presper, Karen M. Pretzer, Robin Price, Mark Prill, Cecilia Prinster. Paul Privitera, Anthony Proscia, Kathy Provenzano, Kathryn Prymak, Eleanor Przleylski, Kenneth E. Przylyla, Virgie Przylyski, Pedro Pujals, Tim Pontarelli, Louise Purcell, Mary Pusman, C.S.C., Bob Quakenbush, Jerome Quella, C.S.C., Arlete F. Quigley, Arthur J. Quigley and Michelle Quinn. 
And David Quint, Kathy Quint, Yusaka Quruhaski, Cindy Raccuglia, Jan Rackish, Bob Radziewicz, Brigid Rafferty, Denise Rafferty, Terry Rafferty, Kendall Rafter, Edward M. Rahill, Jean Rajski, David Rakel, Joan Rakel, Jon Rakow, Jane Ramer, Alvardo Ramirez, Victoria L. Ramirez, Leslie Randall, Catherine L. Rapp, Bill Rathjen, J Laura Rawson, Frederick K. Read, Daniel Reagan, Bill Reardon, Mark J. Rechtsteiner, Dale S. Recinella, Michael J. Reda, Chris Reddick, Mary J. Reddington, C.S.C., Charles Reddy, H.L. Reddy , Claudia Redmond, 
C.S.C
.• Bernard M. Reen, Brian Regan, Mary Frances Regan, C.S.C., Anita Regelbrugge, Regis Regen. sburger, C.S.C., Mary Regina, C.S.C., Mary Reher, Patricia Reichart, Katherine Reichert, C.S.C., William 

R. 
Reichensteln, Michael P. Reid II, Timothy J. Reid, Mike Reilly, Paul M. Reimann. Robert J. Reimer, Louise Reiner, Mary Reiner, John D. Reins, Catherine Reiter, C.S.C., Herman Reith, C.S.C., Alfous J. Reit­zinger, Rick Reitzny, Renee Remblake, Bob Remedlo, Richard Remley and Ed Renier. 


In addition Sr. Margaretta Reppen, Jane Resley; Norma Reyes, Jeffrey Reynolds, John J Reynolds, Paul Reynolds, Emest F. Ribera, Theresa Ribeta, Bill Rice, Charles E. Rice, Anne Richards, Corky Richardson, Mike Riddell, Jim Rieher, James Riehle, C.S.C.,Brldget Riley, John Joseph Riley, Albert Rimlinger, C.S.C., Maureen Riordan, C.S.C., J. Robert Rioux, C.S.C., Paul Rlrgiewicz, Joseph J. Risha, J. Risley, Nancy Rix, Mary Ann Roach,C.S.C., Lloyd Robinson, Ted Robinson, Steve Robles, Richard 
A. Rocap, Terry Roche, Becky Rock, Mary Kay Rock­ford, Meg Roday, John Rodces, Tim Roddy, Peter Rodeo, David Rodes, R. Rodes, Peggy Rodgers, Rafael 
H. Rodgriquez, Charles F. Roedig, Alan Roehl, James 
A. Roemer, Mary Roetker, Colby Rogers, R Bea L. Rohr, John Rom, Jim Romanelli, Sue Romen, Pat Roney, Barbara Ronlo, Ed Rooney, Patrice Rooney, Diane Rortvedt and Ellen Ross. 
Also Pam Ross, Kathy Roth, Mary Caenlllus Roth, C.S.C., P.A. Roth, Coleen Rothfus, Francis Paul Rotsaert, Jon Rouse, Steve Rowley, Pedro Poxas, Stephen Rozak, Kathy Ruark, Joe Ruben, Florence Rubly, C.S.C., David Rue, Jane Running, Mary Catherine Ruof, C.S.C., Bill Rusic, Ann Russell, Catherine Russell, Edward E. Russell, James Russell, Jay Russell, Mrs. Edward Russell, Sr. Jane Russel, Stephie Russell, Dean M. Rutherford, Frank Rutkowski, Frank A. Rutkowski, Peter Rutkowski, Daniel P. Ryan, Elias Ryan, C.S.C., Janet Ryan, Kathleen Ryan, Kieran Ryan, C.S.C., Martie Ryan, Shirley Ryan, Jennifer Ryder, Rick Byniak, Margaret Ryzener, Mike Sabitus, Rodolfo R. Sabonge, Rich Sady, Sharon Saer, Elizabeth Sahuck, C.S.C., Mike Sallie, Eymard Salzman, C.S.C., MWm. J. Sammon, Anne Samuelson, Mary Sandine, C.S.C., Daniel J. Saracino, Kathryn M. Sarb, Suysan M. Sarcone, Macho Sarmina, Lynne Savard, Mary Sawall, William Sawyer, Lucille Sayre and Joe Scally. 
In addition Dorothy Scanlon, Timothy Seer ley, Donald Schapker, C.S.C., Mark A. Scheible, John Scheineman, James M. Schell man, Anne Schen, Patty Schermer, Andrew Schilling, Andy Scirack, Mary Ellen Schlater, David E. Schlaver, C.S.C., Emory Schlenker, C.S.C., Antonlnus Schloemer, C.S.C., Evan Schmid, C.S.C., Christine Schmitt, Kathy Schnitt, Anna Schneider, Elizabeth Schneider, Eric M. Schneider, Mary Lou Schneider, Norbert H. Schnickel, Ill. Don Schnurpfeil, Thomas L. Schoaf, Bill Schoelwer, Paul Schrantz, Joe Schroer, Peter Schuck, Myron Schuckman, Drew Schuett, Frances Schuette, C.S.C., Margaret Sc-huler, Bruce Schulte, John Schulte, C.S.C., Linda Schulte, Peggy Schumaker, William Schuster, James E. Schwartz, C.S.C., Norbert F. Sch­wartz, Ted Schwartz, Vitus Schwartz, C.S.C., Clara Schwind, C .S.C., .lim Scott, Joseph Scott, Mura Scott, Roger Scott, Rosemary Scott, Grace Scroggins, C.S.C., Jean Sculati, Alice Sears, Jerry Sechowski, Chris Seese, Thomas Segerson. Stephen R. Seller, Manle Sells, C.S.C., Patricia Semmer, Sherry Senese, Peter Seng and William T. Senger. 
Also Theodore Slaughter, Dennis J. Sleosa, Josephine Sterk, C.S.C., Rorl Sleva, Patrick L. Small, Anna Smelser, Marshall Smelser, Jeanne Smetana, Alice Smith, C.S.C., Ann L. Smith, Barbara Smith, Chrostopher J. Smith, Dave Smith, Debbie Smith, Denise R. Smith, Donna Smith, Henry A. Smith, Jacob Smith, C.S.C., Lefty Smith, Mrs. Henry A. Smith, Nancy Smith, Sally J. Smith, Thomas G. Smith, W. Nelson Smith, Diane Smits, Donald Sniegowski, Bob Snyder, Candace Snyder, Karen Sofranko, Richard Sofranko, Susie Solnoky, Mary Sommer, Alan Sondej, Richard Sonoski, Tina Sordyl, Michael K. Sorin, John Souten, Vicky Sova, Rich Spangler, Robert Spangler, John J. Sparks, Diane L. Spears, Robert M. Speer, Mark T. Spence, Craig A. Spengel, Patricia Spray, Louella St. Ville, Mary St. Ville, Debbie Stackow, Agnes Stahr, C.S.C., Anne Staiger, Debbie Stancik, Joan Stanley, Susan Starck, Dick Stark, Paul Starkey, 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

John J. Stavola, David W. Steedle, Mary E. Steele, Martha Steele, George Stefanic, C.S.C. and Thomas Stejkal. 
In addition Tom Stella, C.S.C., Richard Sterner, John 
P. Stepens, Kathryn Stephens, C.S.C., Mary St. Mel, C.S.C., Rob Stierwalt, Scott Stolmberg, Michael L. Stone, Tom Strachota, Timothy R. Strader, Kathleen Mary Strait, Marge Strantz, John Stratta, J. Straus. Theresa D. Streit, C.S.C., Julienne Straka, Catherine 
A. Strong, Kenneth R. Strouse, Rod Struble, C.S.C., Mary Stugllk, Christopher Stuhldreher, J. Stuhldreher, 
M. Ana Ana Eva Suarez, O.C.D., John Sucharski, Patty Suddarth, Brian Sullivan, Daniel Sullivan, Denis Sullivan, Francis W. Sullivan, C.S.C., Hugh Sullivan, Mark Sullivan, Michael Sullivan, Patrick J. Sullivan, C.S.C., Pat Sullivan, R. Chris Sullivan, Richard Sullivan, Richard J. Sullivan, Emily Surzeniak, C.S.C., Donald Swanbeck, Judy Sweeney, Peter Sweeney, Philip Sweeney, Debbie Sweet, Jeff Swenton, Katie Swint, Greg Switaj, Raymond C. Switalski, C.S.C., Edmund J. Sylvia, C. S.C., Crescentia Syndikus, C.S.C., Catherine Sypniewski, Mrs. Mary Szabo, George L. Szal, S.M., B.B. Szczesniak, Ed Szmanski, C.S.C., Pat Tack, Tim Takocs and Thomas Tallarlda, C.S.C. 
And Lou Talotta, Muen Tarpley, Janie Tarwacki, Anna Tatino, Robert Tauro, Paul Taylor, David Tecschib, Cecelia A. Teders, C.S.C., Karen Telchen, John E. Telrchan, Tim Teixeira, Mary Teresa, C.S.C., Maria Teresa, C.S.C., Catherine Terner, C.S.C., R.T. Teusd, DavidTezza, William N. Thee, Jr., M. Madeline Therese, C.S.C., Pat Thoennes, Julie Thomas, Mike Thomas, Sally Thomas, S.P., Bernard L. Thompson, 
B.L. 
Thompson, Helene P. Thompson, Mrs. BL.L. Thompson, Amy Thornton, John Thornton, Raymond 

F. 
Tierney, C.S.C., Joanne Toenlshoette, Mary Anne Tokarz, Theresa Tolley, Stephen J. Tomanovich, Mat Tomaselli, Joan Tomassi, Victor D. Tommaso, Jr., Mark Tooey, William Toohey, C.S.C., Ben Toomer, Yvonne Toss, Theresa Towhey, Michael Towle, Sue Towner, Marla Treckelo, Chris Trembler, Bradford H. Trenary, James Trepanier, C.S.C., Sue Triebold, James Troy, Tim Truesdell, Jill Truitt, Catherine Trvombly, C.S.C., Kathy Tuehart, Charles J. Tull, Mrs. Charles J. Tull, Robert G. Tully, Irene Turner, Paul Turpin and James F. Twist. 


In addition., Catherine A. Uhl, Linda Ulanski, Greg Urbam, Stefanie Urbanski, C.S.C., Kathy Valdiserrl, John Valentine, Ed Valenzuela, Richard Van Beveren, Jim Van Dyke, Thomas Van Eck, Thomas Van­denberg, Joe Vanek, Martin Van Haltern, Margarita, Vargas, Paula Vasquez, Robert M. Vasoll, Edward Vasta, Karen Vatolaro, Chris Vaughn, John Veih­meyer, Anna Marie Vela, Mary Venn, Rita J. Verhalen, C.S.C., Kenney Victor, Marybeth Vieha, Valerie Viluinas, Glen Villano, David Vinson, Mark Virgil, Mrs. Mark Virgil, M. Rose Viterbo, C.S.C., Debbie Voeizke, Nelson J. Vogel, Sandra L. Vogel, John D. Volt, William Vondriska, C.S.C., Mary Ellen Vonesh, George J. Voslcky, Charlotte Voss, C.S.C., Theresa Wack, Pat Wadas, Jim Wade, Tom Mahatty, Scott A. Wahle, Michael James Wakoshe, Pam Waldner, Kathy Walker, Stan Walker, Catherine Walkowiak, C.S.C., Paul D. Walkowski, David Wallace, Kevin Wallace, Mark Wallace, Johanna Wallard, C.S.C., Ceil Walsh, Jean Walsh, Mary Walsh, Sheila Walsh and Timothy Walsh. 

Waltner, Rich Walton, Antonette Wandell, C.S.C., Leo R. Ward C.S.C., Richard Warls, Jim Warren, Leo L. Wasowskl, Greg Watts, Mrs. John Watts, Florence Weber, C.S.C., Ruth Weber, C.S.C., Thomas P. Weber, Nick Weis, Mary Welch, C.S.C., Michael G. Welsh, Gary Welteroth, Gretchen Werner, Mike West, Tim West­man, Jeff Weston, Bill Weyland, John Whalen, Lionel 
R. Whately, Marsha Ann White, Paul White, Mike Whiteside, James M. Whittington, Joseph D. Whalley, Arthur Wholes, Arthur G. Wiegand, Joan F. Wiegand, Florence Wilczewski, Tom Wild, Cornelia Wilke, C.S.C., Marie Wilke, C.S.C., RichardS. Wilkinson, Tim Wilks, Dick Williams, Lois Williamson, C.S.C., Matt Williams, Oliver Williams, C.S.C., Peggy Williams, Chuck Wills, Jerome J. Wlson, C.S.C., Jim Wiltshire, Margaret Wimmer, C.S.C., Dawn Winkleman, Karen Wischerath, William Wischerath, George C. Wlskir­chen, C.S.C., David Wisniewski II, Agnes Wlx C.S.C., Pete Wolf and Robert Wolf. 
And Diane Wolfe, Don Wolfe, Megan Wolff, Donald Wolford, Betty Wood, John Wood, John Wood, Robert 
C. Woodroff, Ill, Bridget Woods, C.S.C., Gary Woods, Stephen T. Worland, Norma Worley, Robert Wosdraard, C.S.C., Jerry Woznicki, Tom Wrape, Clara M. Wrobleski, Ellen Wuellner, Mark Wurfel, Chris Wynne, Elizabeth Yandl, C.S.C., Jerry Yantek, Joseph Yates, Tina Yates, Gloria Ybarra, Florence C. Yeager, C.S.C., Sandy Yelnlck, Bernadette Yerkes, Terri Yonto, Mary Yornowskl, Tom Young, Jeremy Youngblood, Bob Urkovlch, John Zachary, Marlene Zakrowski, Richard Zang, C.S.C., Tony Zappia, Jessica Zeiger, Tim Zelko, Mark Zenger, Robert Zierk, Gary Zigman, Dan Zimmerman, Noreen Zimmer!~ Terrence L. Zimmerman, John Zlntsmaster, Anthony 
M. Zipple, Debbie Zlenka, Eleanor Zmudzinskl, C.S.C., Carl Zwitt, Henry Zych, C.$.C. and John Zygmunt. 
~­
l . l 
l 
I I I l I l 

-
•. 
.. 

< 
I. 


The Irish Eye 
Twombly column 'irresponsible'
by Greg Corgan . Sports Editor . . 
The last ram cloud to dampen Notre. Dame spmts before the Orange Bowl rolled m ~ut of San Francisco on December 18. In tha~ day's Issue of the San Francisco Examiner, colu~mst Wells T_wo.mbly authored a piece with the headbne: "Ara's exit tied to player revolt." Above that, in th«: left hand co:ner, was, what in journalistic circles IS called a kicker 
which read: "Irish collapse in USC game cited." 
From where, Wells only knows, Twombly picked up a story that inferred Notre Dame had purposely lost its last game to Southern California. He wrote: "Indeed, there is a growing evidence that the Irish didn't care how badly the Trojans defeated them. They let a 24-6 halftime lead turn into a 55-24 defeat. They weren't winning one for the Gipper, they were were losing one for Art Best. They were giving their coach a lesson in humility. They were punishing Ara Parseghian for not playing one of their most popular colleagues. They didn't throw thegameexactly.That much will never be proved. But they did relax. It was one of the last great student protests, it seems." 
"That (Twombly's story) was the most irrespon­sible piece of journalism I've seen in my twenty-five years of coaching," related a dismayed Ara Par­
-
seghian. "In fact, to be honest with you, I've talked with my lawyer and we're considering some kind of legal proceedings." 
"I was shocked when I read the story. The SC game was just one of those things. Everything just went wrong, sometimes those things happen. But in no way is there any truth to any of what was said" 
"Whenever something like that happens here, immediately people think, 'Well, there must have been something behind that.' When I decided to resign, again, I heard all sorts of stories about how there must have been something else that had hap­pened. I'll tell you, if the kids really wanted to do something like that, they would have waited until we 
played Alabama." 
Twombly, the author of a book dealing with Frank Leahy's career at Notre Dame calledshake'Down The Thunder prefaced his above remarks with severe implications that some of the mistakes in the Irish 
secondary were deliberately contrived. "I can't understand it," said Ara. "He worked on his book with . Roger Valdiserri (Notre Dame's Sports Information Director) and not once did he so
much as pick up the phone and call to check things 
out. He could easily have gotten hold of Roger or 
myself, and all my players are always allowed to talk to the press. He could have checkec these things out any number of ways, but the onlv thing he used was a 
"The quote about losing one for Art Best is definitely untrue," offered one member of Notre 
Dame's offensive unit. "I wouldn't exactly say that 
Art was one of the most popular guys on the team. In 
fact a lot of the guys were disappointed with Art's 
attitude the entire season 
"As far as the Southern Cal game is concerned, 
nothing at all happened, I was there. At halftime the 
feeling was one of quiet confidence that we could go 
on and win the ball game. Nothing at all happened." 
"I couldn't believe it," added Parseghian.-"During halftime I was walking back and forth between the offensive and defensive units and if there were any fights or arguments they took place back in some obscure corner of the locker room where nobody saw or heard anything.'' 
The reactions of those team memberes contacted were exactly the same. Bullock called the the ac­cusation "ridiculous.'' 
But Twombly's most vicious slam at Notre Dame came in the fourth paragraph of the story. He wrote: 
"They were mad as hell at Ara and at the school," said a source at Notre Dame. " ..They were deter­mined to drive him out of football. It's been an ugly mess here this season and much of it has been racial. The black players have always felt uncomfortable at Notre Dame. They equate Catholicism with white people and the black kids we have been getting lately have all turned into instant militants. There is a powerful clique on the football team that centers around Art Best and Eric Penick." 
"That's amazing," said Frank Allocco when he read it. "I don't believe it. '"Sophomore year Eric and Art were good friends, but after Eric got married they hardly even saw each other anymore. This year they were seldom even with each other." 
"There is no racial problem at Notre Dame and I didn't spend four hours on an airplane to go to Los Angeles to lose on purpose," said Eric Penick, a black halfback. "Never did the players think that Coach Parseghian sold them down the river. 1 keep 
hearing that Art Best and I are leaders of some sort of black-white racial clique on the team. That's just plain nonsense." Co-captain Greg Collins, white linebacker, had only 
a few words to say. "The whole thing is ridiculous," 
he said. "It's absurd. And as far as the rumors about
what happened at halftime are concerned, they are completely unfounded. Absolutely nothing happened. They guy who wrote all this ought to be shot." · 

so-called 'source at Notre [checked .-----------------------­
ND-HC stats 
NOTRE DAME 1•1 

fR n re11 p1 pt~ Adnan Danlley . &-1818-22 10 4 30 Btll Paterno f>.ll 1).0 5 4 10 Peter Crotty ll-G ll-G I 2 0 Dwight Clay. &-4 I· I 0 2 I Ray Martin . . 11-12 2·3 I 4 H Toby Knight. 11-15 3--4 18 3 19 Dave Balton 14 0.0 0 2 2 Jeri Carpenter ll-0 1).0 0 0 0 Da1·e Kuzmtcz 8-12 4-4 3 2 20 
Totals. . J4.7e 23-34 38 23 98 
THINK Ca.LEGE LIFE 
lNSURANCE CO.OF AMERICA 
WANTED 

Need a rider to share some driving. Going east to Pittsburgh or Cleve. Leave Wed. afternoon. Call 3140. 
Wanted: used portable b & w TV. Call 272-4156. 
Housemate wanted. Private room 1 mile from campus. $60 per mo. Call 233-2352. 
Need 2 UCLA tix. Call Tom, 288· 2613. 
One or two housemates. Private bedrooms. Close to campus. Good neighborhood. Call 233-5925. · 
Need 2 UCLA tlx. Please call Mary Lou, 283-8066. 
.,.. 
Desperately need 3 or 4 UCLA basketball tlx. Call Dan, 683-5362. 
Need 2 GA UCLA tlx. Please call Debbie, 6746, or Brenda, 4276. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: silver necklace with diamond chip. If found, call 3525. 
KErfS DEN 
BARBER-HAIRSTYLING 
Award winning stylists 
-Unique atmosphere Roffler styling products 
703 LWW {ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER) 
Phme 25S-6500 Appointments eferred 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
The idea that a supposed "professional"like Twombly would allow such 
inaccur~te reports to be printed, and would himself d~aw s~:~ch lu~crous conclusiOns serves as a severe blow to responsible journalism. Throughout his story, Twombly connects the loss at Southern California to the six suspensions at the beginning of the season and ultimately to the resignation of Ara Parseghian. The inferences are sickening.. 
Twombly, amid all his absurdity did come up with one grain of truth. "Coaching," he said, "beneath that golden dome carries with it vast responsibilities." People like Twombly make it that much more difficult. 
Hoosiers top polls 
UPI Poll 

I. Indiana (38) (16-8) .. .  . .. . . Al6  
2. UCLA m-11 ...... ..  . .. 327  
3. l.oulsvlbe ( ~) (12-0) ..  . .... 308  
4. Maryland Ill (I~ I)....  . ...... 2116  

5. N.C. st. (11·2) ..................231 1. Alabama (11·1) ............... 164 7. Soutbem Cal(1~2) .. .. .. .. 1411 8. Ar1zooa Slate (15-l) . .. . .. .. 141 •. Oregon (12-1/ ...................466 ll Kentucky II ·2) .. . .. . .. .. .. . . . 58 11. LaSaDe (14-1) ................. 48 12. Marquette ( 11·2) . . .· .. 40 13. A!Uona (14-2)..... . . . .. 'll 14. Nortll Carolina (IH) .. . .. .. . . 20 15. Soutb Carolina (t-4) . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 II. UN Las Vegas (12-$) ............ 6 17. Creighton (12-4) .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. . 5 18. stanford (U) ..........,........ 4 II. Tie Kansas (t-4) ....... ...... .. . 2 lt. Tit Ulab (11·3) .................. 2 
AP Poll 
Polats 
I. lnclana (4.'1) ............ IIHI 9M 2. Louisville (3) ............. 12·0 788 l Maryland .. . ............. 13-1 740 
4. 
UCLA.. . .......... 13-1 714 

5. 
N.C. State . .. .. 11-2 4113 1.. Alabama... .. .... 11·1 443 


7. Southern Cal . . ... 13-2 345 8. 01't'g011'. . . '12·1 336 l LaSalle "'14-1 312 
ll Arizona State . 15-1 308 
II. Kentucky . .. ....... 11·2 261 
12. Marquette . .. ....... 11·2 247 11 Arizona . . .14-2 120 
14. Nor1h Carollllll . . IH 78 
15. stanford . . .. . . .. U 52 
11. Providence . .. :. 111-3 37 
17. 
MIDDesota .. .. ......... 11·3 17 

18. 
KMsas ... ' ' .............. 12 It Rutgers ................. 111-3 18 a P.nlae.................. IH 7 lleAubum ................ 8-S 7 


The 

Culturals Arts Commision presents 
THE AMERICAN JAZZ DANCE REVUE 
by 
The Gus Giordano DANCE COMPANY 


NOTICES 
Take the Greyhound to Chicago from NO every Friday at 5:40. Two. buses return Sundays. Call Tom Boyer, 272-1807. 
TICKETS FOR NEXT TUESDAY'S RARE EARTH & PURE FUNK CONCERT AT MORRIS CIVIC ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE NEW STUDENT 
UNION  TICKET  OFFICE.  
TICKETS  ARE  SS.SO IN  AD·  
VANCE.  

Sell us your texts and paperbacks for cash or credit. Buying hours from 2:30 to 3:30 daily. Pand~a's Books, 602 N. St. Louis at So. Bend Ave. 
SMC Sophomore Variety Show! 
Talent needed and none refused! 
Try-outs Sunday Jan. 26th at 2:00 
In Regina North Lobby. Prizes for 
first, second, and third places. For ·info call 5735 or 5274. 
FOR SALE 
Calculator, brand new. Call Mary, 7953. 
Overseas Jobs. Australia, Europe, 
s. America, Africa. Students, all professions and occupations. $700 to $3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing. Free in­formation: TRANSWORLD RESEARCH CO., Dept F3, P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA, 94925. 
Money? Morissey Loan will lend up to $150 for 30 days, 1day waitin~ period. Basement of LaFortune, daily, 11:15 to 12:15. 
HASH BROWN BLUES BAND AVAILABLE FOR YOUR DANCE 
OR  PARTY.  CALL  272-9895  
(EVENINGS)  FOR  IN·  
FORMATION.  

EUROPEAN TRIP: LONDON, MOSCOW, PARIS, LENINGRAD, KIEV, ROME. $910. May 26-June 
11. Prof. Rubulls, Modern Language Dept. 
SMC & NO: For pizza delivery, call The Roma, 234-3258. Monday through Saturday, 4:30p.m.. 1:30 a.m. 
Tony's Shoe Repair Is conveniently located on the first floor of Badin Hall. See Tony for all your shoe repair needs. 

Ken, who's supposed to be the CAC Commissioner, but everyone knows he's just a puppet, Tom and Bill, the Film czars, and Mike (whO?) invite everyone to giggle and chortle during the Woody Allen Film Festival, Jan 26 to Feb 
1. 
FOR RENT 

503 West Jefferson Duplex 3-room turnished apartment, first floor. Gas heat furnished. 289-6307, 234­0596. 
5 bedroom house for rent for second semester. 2 full baths. Walking distance to campus. $150 per month. Call 233-2613. 
PERSONALS 

Notre Dame beware! Mongo and his cohorts are scheduled to arrive at m idnlght tonightI 
Due to the fruit embargo, the Pear­Lady will not appear today. Check newspaper for further details. 
Who's the boy with the blond hair, the long jaw, and the Rock Body? It's Thad, the Birthday Boy . give him a call at 1806 TODAY. 
L.i2: 
The freshman Art Major from 
SMC: I met you at a party at Grace 
Friday night where we shared 
ciagrettes. It is very Important 
that I talk to you. Call 1688. 
Your fellow animal lover, 
To "Linda Bartowski," the person who backed into my door In Stepan Lot last Friday. I have your real license plate number and will report you to the pollee for hit and run driving unless you reach me by Wednesday at 3482. If you don't, I will press charges. 
Observer Classifieds Get Results. Call 7471 for Information 







