
Ara leaves with 13-ll'Bama victory 
_____________________________________§!9rL.o...E-~~ 
Oa The Inside 
Mullin's disappearance ... page 3 letters to the Editor ... Page 6 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 58 

Flanner to be women's dorm next year? 


Future of towers still undecided for'75-'76 
by Jim Eder Contributing Editor 
No decision regarding new female student housing on campus next year has yet been reached, according to Vice President Of Stude.ht Affairs, Br. Just Paczesny. A special committee to investigate various housing options was formed during the holiday. 
No Announcement Yet 
"There is a special committee working very diligently on the various possibilities of this matter, but we are not ready to make a statement yet," Paczesny said. 
"There are property and people involved, causing legal situations, and we can't turn our head now," he explained. 
Paczesny would not reveal who is serving on the "special committee." He also refused to fix a date by which a decision will be reached. 
"If I set a date, and we were a few days late, the students would be up in arms," he said. 
Mulcahy not on committee 
University Housing Director Fr. John Mulcahy is not a member of the female housing committee. "Unfortunately I was not selected to serve on that committee, although I would have had a lot to say about it," Mulcahy stated. 
University Provost Fr. James Burtchaell selected the members of the special decision-making committee, according to the Housing Director. 
Burtchaell was not available to comment on the work of the committee to date. Mulcahy's proposal 
Last month Mulcahy had proposed converting either Flanner or Grace Hall into a women's dorm to accommodate an ad­ditional 200 to 300 female students expected next year. Under Mulcahy's plan Farley Hall would have been reconverted to a men's dorm. 
Mulcahy stated yesterday that he still believes his proposal is the best solution to the housing problem. 
"We could obtain the additional women's beds needed by using one of the towers and reconverting Farley," Mulcahy explained. "And if we could get another 200 beds for the men by acquiring another facility, there would most likely be no, housing problem at all because the situation would be stabilized." 
Mulcahy said that there are poresently 100 empthy beds on campus. "Twenty-two were vacated during the first semester, and the remainder were made available at the end of the semester," he said. · 
Lottery still undecided 
Mulcahy explained that no plans regarding an off-campus lottery can be made until the special women's housing com­mittee makes its decision. 
"Maybe a problem won't exist and a lottery won't be needed," Mulcahy said. "But I can't tell anything until I know what will be decided by the committee." 
Mulcahy pointed out that he made his proposal public in December in order "to stir up some activity on this matter. We must get a decision soon. The earlier the better," he said. 
Mulcahy proposal, which was stated in a letter to the hall rectors from the Housing Office, was publicly criticized by Paczesny for being premature. "It forced too many students to conclusions that are unfounded because of inaccurate assump­tions," he had stater! 
(continued on page 5) 
Thursday, JanuarY 16, 1975 

Ford presents 'bad news' in State of Union address 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Telling Congress he had "bad news," President Ford Wednesday called for new taxes to add $30 billion to the cost of fuel and for a permanent cut in income tax rates of $16.5 billion for individuals and $6 billion for corporations. 
Delivering his first State of the Union address in the House chamber where he served for 25 years, Ford outlined a program which puts aside the fight on inflation to concentrate on overcoming recession and ending the country's dependence on foreign oil by 1985. 
"I want to speak very bluntly," Ford said. "I've got bad news, and I don't expect much if any ap­plause." 
Applause interrupted him only about a dozen times. 
Ford called for actions which would add 2 per cent to the cost of living in this and subsequent years and add at least 10 cents to the price of gasoline. 
To restore buying power, he proposed a reduction in tax rates for low and middle-income taxpayers, payments of $80 each for poor adults and tax relief to businesses which expand or modernize and to homeowners who insulate or install storm windows. 
He asked, too, for moratorium on new social spending and standby authority to ration gasoline. 
And he asked Congress to reduce to 5 per cent the 12 per cent cost of living increase in benefits which is to be paid in July to 30 recipients of Social Security benefits. 
Atop the 12 per cent rebate on taxes due for 1974 
earnings, which he proposed Monday night in a 
speech from the White House, Ford called for a 
permanent tax cut averaging 12.6 per cent. It would 
give a family of four with $10,000 in taxable income a 
reduction of $349 in federal income taxes. The 
reduction would be smaller for families with higher 
or lower earnings. 
Ford emphasized that the economy faces tough going. "I must say to you that the state of the union is not good," he said. 
"The emphasis of our economic efforts must .now 
shift from inflation to jobs," he said. He asked 
Congress to seize "an historic opportunity" and make 
it "one of the great creative moments of our history." 
But Democrats expressed skepticism about many 
of Ford's proposals-especially his plan to restrict 
consumption of fuel through a drastic increase in 
price. Generally, they welcomed the proposal to cut 
taxes but called it too generous to the rich. Con­
servatives in Ford's Republican party expressed 
grave misgivings about theprojected deficit of $75 
billion in the current and next fiscal years. 
Ford's economic coordinator, L. William Seidman, said the President's program would add $55 billion to the cost of fuel and of products made from it and would add 2 per cent to the cost of living-making likely a second consecutive year of double-digit in­flation in 1975. The government reported Wednesday 
",,,v 'r.t
-i' ·~ ·~·A 

that wholesale prices rose 20.9 per cent last year, the biggest increase since 1945. 
Ford recalled listening 26 years ago to the first State of the Union address he heard as a member of Congress. In that speech, he said, President Harry 
S. Truman, "all charged up by his single-handed election victory," was able to give a glowing report on the nation's health. 
"Today that freshman member from Michigan stands where Mr. Truman stood and I must say to you that the state of the union is not good," Ford reported. 
Ford advocated $10 billion in tax relief for business. Of that, $6 qillion would come in a reduction of the corporate income tax rete from 48 to 42 percent and $4 billion from an increase in the investment tax credit from its present 10 percent to 12 percent. This would allow firms and farmers to subtract from taxes 12 percent of what they spend to expand or modernize. 
However, oil firm!M'oulc::be subject to a new tax on windfall profits to prevent them from profiting from the nation's energy troubles. 
The President said the government faces a deficit of $30 billion this fiscal year and $45 billion-a peactime record--in the new fiscal year which begins July 1. This would raise the national debt to over $500 billion for the first time. 
Ford said his energy plan would "make us in­vulnerable to cutoffs of foreign oil." 
More than America's future is at stake, he said. 
"A resurgent American economy would do more to restore the confidence of the world in its own future than anything else we can do..At stake is the future of the industrialized democracies, which have perceived their destiny in common and sustained it in common for 30 years," he said. 
Among his other proposals were a 5 per cent ceiling on federal pay raises and increases in military and government pensions this year; an expanded effort to produce oil from oilshale in the West: opening the il-rich Navy properties at Elk Hills, Calif. to developers; tax concessions to utilities which do not burn natural gas or oil. 
In addition, Ford proposed a law requiring new buildings throughout the country meet new heat efficiency standards and federal subsidies to the poor to help them insulate their homes.. 
Ford said his energy program envisons over 10 years 200 nuclear power plants, 250 major new coal mines, 150 major coal-fired power plants, 30 major oil refineries, "the driling of many thousands of new oil wells" and the insulation of 18 will be able to subtract 15 percent of the cost of storm windows and insulation from taxes due with a maximum tax credit of $150. 
WHILE SOME students never escaped from the confines of Midwest weather, the others who were in Florida to watct: the tropic sun set for Alabama must now be reminded of the lesser virtues of Notre Dame, and its Midwest location. · · 
warld briefs 
SAIGON (UPI) -President Nguyen van Thieu's government o_f­fered its first amnesty to draft dodgers and deserters Wedne~day m an effort to build up South Vietnam's million-man arn:tY which ~as been thrown on the defensive by the latest Commumst offensive. 
DENVER <UPI> -The Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers Union set strike deadlines Wednesday against Mobil, Texaco and American Oil Co., refineries. Union officials said 8,700 work~rs would leave their jobs unless they received 28.6 per cent wage m­
cresses. MANILA (UPI) -Moslem rebels armed with mortars and grenade launchers wiped out a 41-man army patrol and attacked govern­ment installations in renewed fighting in the southern Philippines, military sources reported Wednesday. 
No immediate comment was available from official govdrnment and military spokesmen. 
WASHINGTON <UPI> ~Former Attorney General John N. Mit­chell's life might be in danger if he was sent to prison where other inmates would be allowed access to him, Jeb Stuart Magruder said Wednesday.
Magruder, who was released from prison last Wednesday after serving seven months on Watergate conspiracy charges, said that some convicts might hold Mitchell personally responsible for their jail terms. . 
BELFAST <UPI> -Britain released another group of outlawed Irish Republican Army and Loyalist ;risoners Wednesday but the IRA political wing denounced the token peace gesture as "dangerous brinkmanship." . . . 
Sources close to the IRA ruling Army Council said that, nev~r­theless, it was likely to further extend its cease-fire -du~ to e~pire at midnight Thursday -but would couple the extensiOn With a peace-oriented ultimatum to the British government. 
BRUSSELS (UPI) -The nine European Common Market nations agreed Wednesday to set up a $4 bil~ion fund ~or five y_ears of development assistance to 46 developmg countries of AfriCa, the Caribbean and the Pacific ocean regions. 

an campus taday 
4:00pm-seminar, "Instrumentation and research on sulfuric acid condensation nuclei" by dr. edwin hart of argonne natI. lab., rad. lab 
6 through 12 -informal meeting, -all smc students Interested In applying for the position of resident assistant should meet with their floor's ra between the hours of 6 and 12. 
7:30pm-meeting, nd-smc council for the retarded meeting In the lib. aud. 
7:30pm . meeting, faculty senate meeting In rm. 202 of cce 8:00pm-concert, harpsichord recital in stapleton lounge 8 and 10 pm -film "glgl" starring maurice chevalier & lelle caron, In the eng. aud., $1 (also jan. 17) 
Student Book Exchange to be open until Sunday 
by Maureeo Flya. Staff Reporter 
The perpetually poverty-stricken student can pravtice some necessary economy by patronizing the third Student Union Book Exchange outside the Student Government office on the second floor of LaFortune. 
The exchange runs through Sunday, January 19th and features used text and paperback books at greatly reduced prices. No more books are being accepted for sale, but students still have an op­portunity to search out bargains today from I p.m. to 10 p.m., Friday from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m., Saturday from 2 p.m. to 4p.m., and Sunday from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. 
Student Services Commissioner Rick Golden estimated that students save at "an average of $4 for a textbook," while "most paperbacks are selling for $1 and under." 
Golden had no estimate of the percentage of books turned in that have been sold, but he reinded those who did turn in books to pick up their money and unsold booksnext Tuesday or Wednesday from 6 to 10 p.m. After Wed­nesday, January 22nd all books and money left over become the property of the Student Union. 
The book exchange is organized by th~ Student Services Com­mission. 

$5 99Gal Supply 



w~~~~~~~Ti .i: 
CORNER OF IRONWOOD & STANDARD STATE ROAD 23 
(ACROSS FROM THRIF-T-MART) .,., 

2 7 2. 0 0 8 3 •SERVICE• 
BE SURE TO ASK FOR 10 PERCENT ND-SMC DISCOUNT ON EVERYTHING EXCEPT GAS. 

Possible trial on tap for allowing two women priests to celebrate Eurcharist 
By NANCY KERCHEVAL 
CLEVELAND (UPil -A committee of four laymen and four clergymen Wednesday began hearings to determine whether the Episcopal Church should put on trial a minister who permitted two women priests to perform the Eucha-
Cancer claims law student 
by Mary Janca St. Mary's Editor 
Cancer claimed the life of Peter Lardy, a third-year Notre Dame law student and the husband of the LeMans Hall Director, over the Christmas break. 
Lardy died on Monday, January 6 in Memorial Hospital, ending a fourteen-month struggle against the disease. He had been hospitalized since mid-December, said Assistant Hall Director Debbie Johnson. 
The Notre Dame Law School is establishing a scholarship in his name, and contributions are being 
A memorial Mass is now being 
made  to  that  fund  and  to  the  
American  Cancer  society,  she  
continued.  

planned by the law school and 
another is expected to be offered 
by the members of LeMans Hall, Johnson stated, although no definited plans have yet been made. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. will offer his regular 12: 15 Sunday Mass in Sacred Heart Church for Lardy and another student, Jim rist in his church. 

It has been over 50 years since an ecclesiastical court was summoned by the Ohio Diocese to try an Episcopal priest for defying Canon law. Rev. L. Peter Beebe would face trial if a standing committee finds him guilty of ecclesiasti­cal disobedience. 
Beebe, rector of Christ Church in Oberlin, Ohio, allowed two of the 11 women priests ordained last year in Philadelphia to perform the Eucharist in his church Dec. 8. In fact, Beebe invited them to participate and, in doing so, defied the Bishop's orders and the laws of the church. 
Thirteen laymen and seven clergymen brought charges against the 29-year-old priest, thus starting the church's judicial process. 
Beebe recently was chosen by the Cleveland Press religion editors as "Man of the Year" for inviting the women priests to his church. 
According to John Rea, Beebe's lawyer, a recommenda­tion for a trial or a dismissal is not expected until the first week of February. Beebe was the first of several persons to testify before the eight-member panel Wednesday. 
If the standing committee calls for a dismissal of the charges, the judicial process ends. 
On the other hand, if a trial is recommended, the eight will write a presentment, listing the formal charges. 


N.D. KARATE CLUB 
EST. 1970 
Raymond L. Sell, Head Instructor, is a 3rd Degree Black Belt, and captured a Bronze Medal in the "1973 World Tae Kwon Do Championships" held in Seol, Korea. (3rd in the World) 
Cl T d 1h 6 8 p M
aSSeS Ue5 an U r5 -• 
FIRST Q.ASS TONIGHT F 0 R M 0 R E I N F 0 
C A l l G E 0 R G E 2 8 3 -1 2 1 5 
I I 

SPECIAL. . -­$5 OFF IF YOU JON 
Ward, who also died during the j;-===~~;;;;;~~;;;;;;;;;;~~~;.:;~~~~;~;=;;;;;;;;;;;;_;, 
Christmas holidays. 
Lardy's wife is expected to return to the campus within a week, following his funeral in North Dakota. Although she previously stated that she hopes to resume her duties as hall director, Mrs. Lardy will make a final decision upon her return, Johnson said. Brenda Lardy has served as LeMans Hall Director since 
January. 1974 . 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor S9 per semester ($16 per year) trom The Observer Box· Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
465S6. 

r .t N 5 . d



\._ommuntT\f ()ws tan . 
;; l\;. 
"NOVELTIES IN THE UNUSUAL" 
PARTY & GAG ITEMS-NOVELTY GREETING 
CARDS-CANDLES-INCENSE-CLOTHING­~~ TAPESTRIES-JEWELRY-WATERBEDS­~~ t~PAPERS-PIPES-BOOKS-MAGAZINES 
lsTDRt: j 

113 W. MONROE -1 BLOCK WEST OF NEW POST OFFICE 
WELCOME BACK! NOTRE DAME'S ONLY 24 HOUR REQUEST LINE 


. . .~ .. ·• •' .· .....· .... '• .. .. .·. 


Physics chairman •


IS lost in mts. 
word about Mulhn from the abandon~d, according to local 
t • ND tt•t d · • t• laws. Mullin has already been

An J-a J U eS CaUSe eVJC lOnmissingforapproximatelylodays. 
by Ken Girouard Staff Reporter 

The chairman of the Notre Dame physicsdepartment,Dr.CharlesJ. Mullin, has disappeared while mountain climbing in Mexico over Christmas vacation. An extended search has been initiated by Mexican authorities, but as yet, there is no trace of the missing professor. 
According to an article in the South Bend Tribune, Mulli~ and a friend, Jerzy Borysowicz of Michigan State University, both 
specialists in theoretical physics as soon as the word reached the 
of seven Flanner Hall residents 
by Fred Herbst and Ken Bradford Staff Reporters 
Seven residents of B section of third floor Flanner Hall have been forced to move off campus as a result of disciplinary action taken by the hall rector, Fr. John Mulcahy. 
The students were informed of the decision by Mulcahy on December 14. At that time, Mulcahy told the students their attitudes were "anti-Flanner Hall and anti-Notre Dame." 
Third floor resident assistant Tim McBride charged the seven with using marijuana, drinking liquor in the hallways, damaging the hall and posting signs which illustrated their disapproval of the hall staff. 
McBride indicated that poor attitudes concerning dorm life are what ultimately forced the rector's action. 
Section leader Mike Westervelt of 3-B denied the allegations of disruptive hall activity made by McBride against the seven residents and stated, "I can't see any truth in it. If that was the real 
reason, that's not  what we  were  
told."  
Westervelt  claimed  the  only  

charge he heard against the students were their poor attitudes. 
A number of the seven denied McBride's statements and said th~ hall staff tmanufactured the charges of marijuana use, liquor abuse and hall damage to rationalize McBride's dislike of the sel't.ion members. 
One student said the group considered appealing the 
Managing editor 
retires position 
As of today's issue of the Ob­server, Marlene Zloza is retiring as managing editor. She is step­ping down because her term as managing editor has expired. 
Zloza will remain on the staff in an adiisory capacity as senior editor. 
Zloza, a senior American Studies major from Lowell, Indiana, has served on the Observer staff for four years. She has served in varied positions including night editor, copy editor, day editor and senior reporter. 
Last year Zloza was an Observer associate editor until her ap­pointment as managing editor in February 1974. 
A new managing editor has not yet been appointed to replace Zloza. 
WELCOME BACK 
and 

HAPPY NEWYEA 
from 




ROCCO'S 
fine Italian food & pizza 537 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
and amateur mountain climbers, were participating in an expedition to climb 18,700 foot high Pico Orizaba, an extinct volcano in Puebla County, Mexico. 
As they had done on previous mountain-climbing trips, Mullin followed Borysowicz's lead. As they neared the top of the moun­tain, Borysowicz stopped to wait for his friend at a rendezvous point. But when Mullin failed to appear, he turned back to see what happened ~o his companion. He found no sign of ~ullm. 
The Tribune article stated that 
disciplinary action to the Hall Judicial Board, but decided against it when Mulcahy informed the group he would not abide by the decision of the board. 
A spokesman for the group noted, "Mulcahy told us that the Hall Judicial Board is non­existent. He said that even if we won our appeal to the board, he would have <Dean of Students) John Macheca throw us out anyway." 
McBride indicated yesterday that he is willing to give the seven students another chance, but the hall staff decided not to. "I still believe, though, that the punish­ment is just," he stated. 
Mulcahy refused comment on his actions, stating, "I can't say anything without hurting 
som~ne." 
Westervelt complained, "This is a case of a misunderstanding and the whole staff handled it poorly, from the rector to the assistant rector, <Bob Morgenthaler( to the RA." 
"The whole situation was created by the RA who didn't bother to get to know us," Westervelt continued. "The RA, in conjunction with the assistant rector and the rector, suddenly decided these students were a detriment to the hall." 
Westervelt said McBride 
claimed no responsibility for 
selecting the students that were evicted from the hall, though events have shown that McBride alone drew up the list, he added. 
Among the students on the list 
were five juniors, including the hall vice-president, and two sophomores. The vacant rooms in the section have not been filled yet. Westervelt predicted that there 
would be no more trouble in his ""'-pa_pe_r_s_h_o.rt_a_g_e_._______, 
~:;:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:::~:~:~:::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::.::;.:::::::::::::::::~::::;::::::::::::::::::;:::~:~:~:;:~:~:::~:~:·:·:·; 
Ill Attention: ~~~: 
» t
I
1Observer Reporters JM Iand News Staffers -~ 
INews Staff Meeting I 
::_:: ..
. 
N ~ 
~ i
.·.·roNIGHT ..
I 
'_... .....
=.:=_:·-_=·
=_ 



7 p.m. :\\\~ 
:ill: 
.1''"'''''''~:~;:~~=:~1,J 
nearby village of Orizaba, a rescue party set out for the mountain, and searches have continued each day since. 
The searches are being con­ducted by the Red Cross in Mexico. 
Spokesmen for the Red Cross search parties say that despite falling snow and near zero tern­peratures they are still hopeful of finding Mullin. There is a possibility that he might have managed to go back down the mountain_ and r_each one of the remote villages m the area. The Red Cross has att~mpted to get 
section during the remainder of the year. "There was no real trouble in the section in the first place," he noted. 
Flanner Hall President Frank McGuire identified the situation as being much more than just seven students in his hall being disciplined. "The situation that is developing on campus is very serious," he said. 
"The University has now demonstrated its right to throw a student off campus at the whim of any RA or rector-not because of anything he has done, but simply because of what he thinks," McGuire complained. 
McGuire also attacked the hall staff for manufacturing a case against the students. "The hall staff has tried to cloud the issue by using unsupported allegations to smear the students, but the real issue here is the students' freedom of opinion," he stated. "To exile a student for his 'attitudes' is an arbitrary abuse of power." 
McGuire said Mulcahy told the 
.students that if they fought to remain on campus, all the charges would appear on the transcripts sent to graduate schools. 
One student reported that parents who called Mulcahy to discuss the situation were not given a valid reason for the evictions. 
(continued on page 10) 
,.-----------­

Observer alteration 
Starting with today's Issue, the Observer will resume a 10 by 16 Inch newspaper. Since September, 1973• the length of the paper had been only 15 Inches due to the 

villages, but messengers have University. He was named as the 
been unable to reach all of the chairman of the physics depart­villages since many require two-ment in 1963, and has since written day trips. several books, chaired majorSearchers fear that Mullin may conferences, and has been a 
have fallen into the crater of the volcano. If this is the case, then it will 6e impossible to recover the body. In the past five years, three other climbers have fallen, and their bodies were never recovered. 
The Red Cross stressed, however, that the search will be continued as long as Mexican law permits. After 20 days with no success the search must be 




NOTRE DAME-8AINT MARY'S THEATRE 
AlDTia.s 
for 

NEIEA 
Robinson Jeffers' adaptation Jan. 15 and Jan. 16 at 7:00 p.m. (Callbacks-Jan. 17 at 7:00 p.m.) O'Laughlin Auditorium OPEN TO ALL ND AND SMC STUDENTS 
Neighborhood council originates 

Zoning change to clarify housing types 

By Jerry Lutkus 
Barely a half an hour after voting itself into existence, Tuesday night, the Harter Heights and Neighbors Association, ap­proved in a near-unanimous vote, a proposed amendment to the city zoning ordinance to clarify the definitions of family, boarding house and lodging house. 
The proposed change was drafted by a six-member sub­committee and is aimed at beefing up the zoning ordinance con­Common Council President Roger Parent, who worked with the subcommittee on drafting the proposal, said that he would in­troduce the ordinance at the next council session. 
cerning single-family  residential  
dwellings  in  "A"  residential  
zone tracts.  

The definition of family in the suggested change would be "one or more persons related by blood, legal adoption or marriage, living and cooking together as a single housekeeping unit, exclusive of household servants.' 
In the draft, a person placed within a family unit by a publicly licensed placement agency would be considered a family member. 
Additionally, two persons, living as a household unit, but not related by blood, legal adoption or 
Proposed definitions of boarding and lodging houses include all building where more than two people pay for lodging. 
Mrs. Margaret Langford, a member of the drafting sub­committee, explained that the definitions are nearly identical to the one established by the Supreme Court on April 1, 1974, in its ruling on a zoning law suit. 
The change, she said, is intended to attack nonoccupant landlords, houses rented for nonfamily purpose and urban decay. She added after the meeting that the change was not intended to be considered as antistudent since many Notre Dame students rent 
South Viet draft dodgers and deserters are offered amnesty to build up army 
SAIGON <UPil -President Nguyen van Thieu's govern­ment offered its first amnesty to draft dodgers and deserters Wt>dnesday in an effort to build up South Vietnam's million­man army which has been thrown on the defensive by the latest Communist offensive. 
South Vietnamese forces try­ing to stem to flow of weapons being brought in by the ,Communists shelled a 10-truck convoy moving along the Ho Chi Minh trail from Laos into the Central Highlands under cover of darkness. 
Field officers said that at least one truck was knocked out and a large secondary explo­sion triggered, indicating that ammunition or fuel supplies were hit in the artillery barrage 290 miles northeast of Saigon. 
In the first two weeks of this year, Saigon forces have six 
times  attacked  North  Viet­ 
namese  convoys  entering the  
south  over  a  road  network  built  

since the Jan. 27, 1973, cease­fire. The heaviest strike report­ed was Monday when war­planes destroyed 203 trucks of a 400-vehicle convoy as it entered South Vietnam near the high­lands city of Kontum. 
Military officers and civilians charged Wednesday that Viet Cong troops dressed in Saigon 
SMC History Dept. offers summer abroad program 
The department of history at St. Wales June 12-15, visiting Edin­Mary's is sponsoring a program of burgh, St. Giles Cathedral, and study in Great Britain and France various other points of historical May 20 through June 20, 1975, interst. which is open to all interssted June 16-20 will find the students college students in the Michiana in Ireland,. The first two days. the area. group will stay in Dublin, where 
Courses to be offered are History visits to such spots as Dublin 280, the College's regular study Catles, Trinity College and the tour; History 334, a survey of Abbey Theatre will be made. l<~nglish history from the 17th Travel across the country will century to the present; History 350, feature stops at the Kennedy a study of selected cities and their Memorial Park and Homestead, devt>lopment in specific periods of Cork, and Blarney Caste. I<:uropean history' and Art 355, a The return trip to New York will survey of the visual arts, with be made the afternoon of June 20. emphasis on the British con-Optional travel in Europe can be tributions. arranged until July 4, after which 
Students will leave Kennedy time return air fares increase. International Airport May 20 for The cost of the four-week study the trip to Paris, where they will tour is $865, which covers air and spend five days. The Bastille, and travel, as well as room and Notre Dame Cathedral, the Sor-board. Students participating in bonne, the Louvre, and a variety of the program may earn up to nine museums and churches will be college credits. An additional $52 visited. per credit hour will be charged for 
May 27 to June 12 will be spent those desiring credit. Auditors will in London. where classes will be also be accepted. conducted. Major points of in-A $50 deposit will secure a place tereste include Canterbury, Ox-in the program. All fees must be ford, Stonehenge, Westminster paid by April 20. Abbey, and Tower of London, the For additional information, British Museum, and Buckingham contact Dr. Charles Poinsatte, St. Palace. Mary's history department, 284­
The group will tour Scotland and 4831.



r--·-·-··········--································--·----·-····--··············-·····' MEDICAL SCHOOL ASPIRANTS 
Over 40,000 men and women will apply to American medical schools this year, but only about 14,000 will be accepted. 
Qualified candidates have a valid alternative: medical education in Europe. For information and application forms (opportunities also available for veterinary and dentistry candidates), contact the information office: 
INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL EDUCATION 
Provisionally chartered by the Regents of the University of the State of New York. 
40 E. 54 St., New York 10022,(212) 832-2089 
·-----------.-....~·~·······"""""-""'""""-"'"'-·-..·--" 
Ranger uniforms and posing as greeters shot at least 20 eivilian refugees from Phuoc Long province captured by the Communists a week ago. 
The incident is alleged to have occurred near Bu Binh, 86 miles north of Saigon, at a Ranger camp set up to receive refugees from the fighting. 
Viet Cong press officer Maj. Phuong Nam said, "I have no information on that." 
The government news agency Vietnam Press announced the blanket amnesty for all men who have deserted or sought illegal refuge from the draft before Jan. 1, 1975. The Saigon command did not estimate how many persons were affected, but military officers said it runs into "many thousands." 
The news agency said the offer is good until Feb. 15, the day after the Tet Lunar New Year celebrations. 
The Presidential palace Wednesday denounced as "com­pletely untrue" reports he accepted $7 million from the United States to get South Vietnam to sign the Paris peace agreement. 
A spokesman accused Com­munist elements of "besmirch­ing the name of the president and ruining the prestige of the country" with the charges that were made by opposition politicians. 

homes or rooms in the Harter Hei~hts neighborhood. 
If the council passes the or­dinance, she said it could effect approximately 49 students who live in the neighborhood in situations not considered as family units under the new definition. 
Robert Konopa, an attorney, who served as chairman for the meeting, attended by more than 100 residents, said that the sub­committee had checked with university officials and "it is our understanding that there is no serious objection from Notre Dame." 
Konopa said that the change was drawn up; to "take care of am­biguities in the present or­dinance." He added that the subcommittee proceeded on what it termed a mandate from the area residents to draft a zoning change. 
That "mandate" came on Nov. 
20 when the neighborhood 
residents met as a group for the 
first time to consider forming a 
neighborhood organization and to 
discuss the zoning problem. 

Parent said that when he in­troduces the ordinance he expects "arguments to the effect that the council sould wait until the 11ew zoning ordinace is completed," but he noted that argument probably would not br too effective. 
The Area Planning Commission <APCl is in the process of preparing a new complete zoning ordinace, APC director Richard Johnson told the residents at their last session. 
What proved to be the biggest issue of the night however, was the definition of the boundaries of Harter Hts. approved by a 42-36 vote were the following oboun­daries: south on Angela from Michigan to North Shore, east on North Shore and Howard to Lawrence (including both sides of the streetl; north on Lawrence to Angela <including both sides) and west on Angela to Michigan <in­cluding both sides.) 
The group also approved the charter and rules for the establishment of the neighborhood associ a lion. 

NOW OPEN! 
SOUTH BEND'S IRISH PUB 
SERVING YOUR FAVORITE 
BEER, WNEAND COCKTAILS 
ACROSS FRO\A GOOD OLD CORBY'S 
WELCOME BACK TO SOUTH BEND CONGRATULATIONS IRISH IN THE ORANGE BOVVL 
from 

MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES 
X 2 FILMS X BOOK STORE 
X LIVE FLOOR SHOW 
1316 SOUTH MIOiiGAN STREET CALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION 

Saxbe tells of cover-up pressure, 
WASHINGTON William Saxbe disclosed Wednesday that the White House tried to pressure him a year ago to interfere with the Watergate investigation by Special Prosecutor Leon Jaworski. 
In an .interview with UPI, Saxbe credited his resistance of that pressure with quickly restoring morale at the Justice Department, which had been wracked by the Watergate scandal'. 
"There were all kinds of suggestions that we interfere with Jaworski, that we do this and we do that," Saxbe said. "They came pretty thick and fast at first." 
But Saxbe said "we were able to dodge those bullets." He said he told President Richard M. Nixon's aides "no way" despite their "implied" threat that Saxbe's job might be at stake. 
Saxbe, who is leaving the department to be ambassador to India, said the pressure attempts tapered off about two months after he was sworn in on Jan. 4 to suc­ceed Elliot L. Richardson, who had quit the previous October because Nixon fired Jaworski's predecessor, Archibald Cox. 
Two former attorneys general and lesser officials were charged with wrongdoing. Justice Department morale plummeted. 
Students' reactions mixed 


Calendar draws controversy 
by Pat Hanifin Starr Reporter 
After a one-semester trial period, reaction to the new fall semester calendar continues to be mixed, but there is much less polarization into opposing camps and more willingness to change opinions, according to Academic Council members interviewed yesterday. 
"Personally I'm indifferent to the calendar," said Dr. Robert Williamson of the accounting department. "It really didn't affect my classes one way or the other." 
Dr. George Brinkley of the government department was satisfied with the current calendar but added "one calendar is as good as another." 
History professor Dr. Matthew 
Fitzsimons was "grateful for the 
longer break which allowed a 
pause in the rushed tempo needed 
to end before Christmas," but he 
was less enthusiastic about the 
pre-Labor Day start. 
much difference either way. 
Also objecting to the pre-Labor Day start, Dr. Cornelius Delaney, Chairman of the Philosophy Department argued that it pushed the start of school too close to the summer session for those who have to teach classes both in summer and fall. 
"Although last year's calendar lacked a sufficiently long break I still prefer it slightly to the new one," he commented. 
Dr. Raymond Brack also favored a post-Labor Day start but suggested that it was the Thanksgiving break that damaged the continuity of the semester. 
"It came so close to semester 
finals that it had an effect 
something like the Christmas 
break used to have before we 
started ending the semester in 
December," he said. 
Student opinion on the Council was similarly less polarized. "The break has a lot of good points, particularly for freshmen," Susan Hicks said, "but the early start of course hurts some students 
"I would vote in favor of the financially." lengthy break," he said but She suggested that many stressed "I would be happy to students have changed their minds listen to any proposals and recently, pointing to the difference arguments-! don't feel strongly between a poll taken last year either way." when nearly 90 per cent of the 
Leaning against the new students opposed the calendar and calendar but equally undogmati<:-one taken last semester when about it was Prof. Thomas Fehlner opinion was split about fifty-fifty. of the chemistry department. I Tom Wilhelmy, the student 
disliked the Pre-Labor Day start representative from the college of and I thought the semester was Business Administration, still long," he said, "but not as long as I opposes the new calendar, arguing expected it to be beforehand." He that the long break broke up the did not thin! the longer break made semester too much. destroyin~ the
..__ -----··-·····-..................................... 
(continued from page 1) 
Student Body President Pat McLaughlin said that he sent a brief letter to Burtchaell near the end of last semester regarding women's housing. 
"I told him that students were upset about the proposal to convert one of the towers into a female dorm, becuse it was promised at the time of the Lyon's Hall announcement that no more conversions would be made," McLaughlin stated. 
Burtchaell has denied such a promise, according to McLaughlin. McLaughlin stated that a decision by the special committee 
"must be made by the end of this month so that preparations can be made." He also noted that he feels the decision "will be something entirely new and not previously mentioned." 
IN CONCERT 


HELEN REDDY 
with SpeciaiGuest 
PETER ALLEN SUN. FEB. 9th 8:00 P.M. 
Ticket Prices Bleachers ••••• __ $4.50 Lower Arena __ • _ _ $5.50 Floor, Loge •• _• • • $6.50 and Platforms . _• • $6.50 
Concert Tickets 
Now on Sale 
NOTRE DAME, A.C.C. 
Mon. ·Sat. 9 to 5 
Robertson's 
South Bend & Concord Mall 
St. Joseph Bank 
and branches 
First Bank 
Main office only 
Elkhart Truth 
NOTRE DAME 
ATHLETIC AND CONVOCATION CENTER 
continuity of classes. 
Arts and Letters representative Michael Wahoske on the other hand is "reserving judgement" until the debate in the Council. "Student opinion seems to depend on when you take it," he said. "In September everyone was mad about the early start but in October the long break began to look good. I would rather wait until the full debate before I make a full com­ment or commitment." 
Associate Provost Fr. Ferdinand 
Brown, secretary of the Academic 
Council explained that the 
schedule for second semester 
meetings had not been officially 
decided yet but that the calendar 
will come under the promised 
review sometime this semester. He declined to state any reaction to the calendar. 
A new survey of student opinion is being prepared for distribution next week, Student Body President Pat McLaughlin said last night. 
(continued on page 10) 


the observer 
Night Editor: Thomas O'Neil Asst. Night Editor: Danny San­chez Layout: Mary Janca, AI 
Rutherford, Martha Fanning, Jim Stevens, Maggie Walman, Ken Girouard Copy Readers: "the entire staff" Day Editor: Greg Bcmgs Typists: Barb Norcross, Tom Modglin, Jim Landis, Neil Viii Night Controllers: Howard Halle, 
M.J. Foley  
Ad Layout:  Tom Whelan  
Editorials:  Fred Graver  
Features:  Ginny  Faust,  Norm  
Bower, J. Robert Baker  
Sports:  Greg  Corgan,  Pete  
McHugh, Bill Brink  


"I think in the year we were able to turn this around," Saxbe said. He explained that department officials knew what was occurring and would have felt themselves further discredited if Saxbe had allowed political pressure to dictate their decisions. 
As it was, Saxbe said, Jaworski 
was abel to complete his Watergate investigations without outside coercion. 
Jaworski, interviewed in a telephone call to his law office in Houston, Tex., said he had been totally unaware of White House pressure on Saxbe. He confirmed that Saxbe had cooperated with him and never interfered. 
Jaworski, given a "charter" guaranteeing freedom from White House hindrance unless the House and Senate leadership approved, said the White House made no attempt to pressure him directly. 
"It simply didn't happen," Jaworski told UPI. "I would have raised a howl to the congressional committee." 
Saxbe said that if any of the attempted pressures had amounted to moves to obstruct justice, he would have prosecutedimmediately. 
"They were put in the context that theywereproper and I should do them," Saxbe said of the White House suggestion, which he declined to specifically describe. 
"Nothing was suggested with the idea of impropriety but they were wrong," Saxbe said. "In light of what has happened since then, the Nixon resignation and everything, it obviously would have been wrong had I done it." 
~----~~~~------­
-~·

Cinema• • 
PRESENTS 

Maurice Chevalier Leslie Caron Louis Jourdan 
•
1n 

GiGi 
Thursday and Friday Night Engineering Auditorium Admission one dollar 
-ic INDOOR SWIMMING POOL TO BE COMPLETED IN .FEB 

campus view 

A  NEW  APARTMENT  COM­ -ic  BASKETBALL COURT  
MUNITY DEVELOPED  FOR  
-ic  SHAG CARPET  
THE  STUDENTS OF NOTRE  
DAME & SAINT MARY'S.  CAMPUS  -ic  2 BATHS IN 2 BEDROOM APT  
VIEW IS SET IN A WOODED SURROUNDING YET IS ONLY  -ic  ALL APPLIANCES COLOR COORDINATED  
3 BLOCKS  FROM NOTRE DAME.  -ic  SECURITY  
LOCATED JUST ONE BLOCK  -ic  SOUND CONDITIONED  
NORTH OF STATE  RD.  23  OFF  
OF  WILLIS RD.  -ic  PRIVACY  

"NON RENTING FOR SECON> SEMESTER" FOR RENT14. INFORMATION PHONE 272-1441 


. . . 10
"'. "• •, • ~ .. ,. 'f + .. 9 9 ...... !F 9 • 1 4 j .. 9 • If • •I If I' •• ol> f -1' ' • "•' '' , '"' '' f '' •• # '' '•. ', '•,. c .. ,• , .. • •• • • ... II •f • V ... Oo .. "' • ,.. l'lo IO oil 
•• .. • .. •• ···-• f .............•••• ·~ ... •. •; .................................. ~ .. 

Poetry 
Editor, 
A Conversation With the Dome 
"Golden complexion" 
"loving affection" 
"parental protection" 
motley collection .... 
parietal objection! 
"moral direction" 
alumni connection? 
mental dejection .... 
social rejection 
'booze' election 
student reflection 
attempted correction .... 
administration erection 
"deadly infection!" 
"dissenter ejection!" 
"football injection!" 
parental protection? 
Loving Affection? 
GOLDEN COMPLEXION? 
transfer selection. 
by steve bonomo 
Editor, 
There comes that time when one feels to say,"What am I doing here, anyway?" The tests and the papers keep piling higher And one doesn't possess the IQ they require. Each day is longer-nights don't exist While headaches and worries of grades still persist. Constantly feeling drained of the mind Never a chance to really unwind. One loses his appetite after three morning classes Not home 'till 4: 3Q--and so the day 
passes.With feelings of depression and some berievement Never an indication of needed achievement. For some the subjects really aren't hard But lower than a "C" and the major is marred. So you see the semester comes to an end With downhearted freshmen in need of a friend As the situation looks likeD, D, C, B, B Wondering if the college still ac­cepts thee. For, one comes to love this place-I know To have to leave would be quite a blow. One is uncertain about one's true fate Will things get better or is it too 
late? First semester's been rough, I'd tend to sayBut did you--as a freshman--feel the same way? 
Anne M. Brady 
Heart Disease is our nation's number one killer. It is respon­iible for more deaths than all other !auses combined. It strikes men,
Heart vomen and children of all ages and the Top 
From the Lonely At 
all walks of life. The ability to help 

hese people-to fight this disease, Dear Editor: Dear Editor: s entirely in the hands of people Today, it is usually customary to On behalf of the St. Joseph like you... people who care and blame the person at the top of an 
County Unit of the American Heart show it. organization for any faults of that Association, I would like to express Please realize thevalue of what organization. But, to channel and my deepest appreciation to the you have done; the success of your direct "hate" toward Edumund many students who donated their efforts brings us a step closer to Price for the faults of the N.D. food time and effort for the benefit of· success in the fight against heart system is unfair, unreasonable, the Heart Fund. disease. The funds will be im-and ignorant. The article in mediately utilized into the vitally Friday's (November 8) paper by needed heart research programs, Hugh Harman was a bias attempt education and community service. to discredit a system that has
Students Involved: Jim Meehan, 

Special thanks also to Mr. Ed­improved food service at Notre
Chairman, Bob Connell, Mike 

ward Krause for his assistance and Dame over the past six or seven
Conti, Jim Markey, Tom Marme, 

Bill Sweeny, Julie Brennan, Ann support, and to all other members years. as someone who was here of the University whose efforts that long ago and see if this is not
Richards, Ann Dougherty, Mary 
made this success possible. true.
Leternoa, Lesia Gambino Marilee 

For the victims of the car­A main point that Mr. Harman
Smith, Linda Curigian, Nancy 

diovascular diseases and their stressed was that the students are
Budds, Pat Metcalf, Kathy 

Schneider, Cindy Ladriola, families, and for the Heart charged for a "21-meal-a-week Stephanie Urillo, Ginny Curlee, Association, I thank you. plan." In reality the students are Barbara Curlee, Chris Walter, not charged for a 21 meal plan John Lombard, Marilyn Tomasko, Sincerely, although they have the option to Sharon Carter, St. Joseph eat 21 meals. Rather each student 
Margie Ferrell, Mary Ideo, 

County Campaign Coordinator is charged a flat rate based on as
Maryfran Hayes, Dave 

American Heart Association expected percentage of ab­
Everingham, Tom Hume, Bill 

North Central Indiana Area senteeism. It is not expected that 
Guyol, Mary Ann Gaynett. 


50 HOIUP >VIR A/.50, I Gl/e5S Nt/11 1/PRJINTM/fNT I'M.. Well.. A AS L!fl/lENANT­-t1XJKIN6 RR (}(JEST? 
fiOtiEJmOR. OF MM:W ~ 50Mt!HIN6l II (}(JEST GO [)()U!N AT Til£ ~ CAU ff A RJR WH/11; {)eAN'SOFF!C£7 Qf/EST! AMIGO ? 
I I
\ 
each student will attend twenty­
one meals. There are a large 
number of students (including 
myself) that do not attend break­
fast. Some may go to the con­
tinental breakfast or might just 
come to a breakfast a few times a 
week. This average percentage of 
absenteeism is a main factor in the 
calculation of the food charge per 
student. We are not, therefore 
paying for a 21 meal plan. 
Another complaint registered by Mr. Harman is that there is no effort taken to provide special diets, meals or dishes. He claims that no allowance is made for diabetics, vegetarians, those with salt-free diets, dieters or foreign students. For all students thsa tmust have special diets (e.g. diabetics) a special arrangement is made among the dining halls, infirmary, and the student. With the addition of girls to Notre Dame, there is an increasing amount of attention being directed toward dietetic foods. The dining service has made positive strides in this direction. Cottage cheese is present at lunch and dinner every day. Low fat milk along with Tab are present at every meal. There are also low-cal salad dressings at every salad bar. However more adjustments are still in the planning stages. Presently the committee is engaged in , among other things, limiting the amount of fried and starchy food. Special nights are held not only as a change of pace but also as an in­troduction to foreign foods. 
Mr. Harman also claims that one student has written to th management four times without any response. All feedback cards, if signed, are read and the person is called on every occasion. Each card is read by several super­visors. Every time one is read, the feedback card is initialled by a supervisor and passed on through the management until it reaches Mr. Price. I know a girl who last year made a ridiculous suggestion as a joke. She was surprised to receive a call from the manager of the dining hall, whom she met with and seriously discussed her suggestion. All feedback cards are read by the management and if possible, they were implemented. 
Mr. Harman charged that Mr. Price is more concerned with making a larger profit than caring for the students. However, food service does not make a profit nor is it irresponsive to the students. Mr. Price does not "pocket" the money as Mr. Harman suggested. All money allocated toward the food service is spent and still the service runs at a deficit. 
Joe Fiorella Chairman Food Advisory Council 
by Garry Trudeau 
YOIJ'U.. 
7HE ... 1He fiNO IT, PtRFEcr 80Yl I 1AN! JfJSTKNOIU YOIJ fA/It..U
l I 
~~?..I'M 
~ IIEll, I'HGtl/0 70

MAcAWUR, SIR.-I<'Efl WU MAdii<JHIJI?I NOT >t:t'R APHNIS!RAT!Y£ 81/T 8lfFI:lK£ 11/E GO II/HIIT'5 A 7H6RMOS R&AUY, SIR.­
AI/Jf3. IY5 607A CAR. ANYIJII.IER£, I ~5'R. THIS? Of FR/Jl£N IUA5HINGTfY-I 
~~ 

liAITIN6 10 TAI<E WU R£AU..Y 711/NK fER£ )()(} OA/(}IJIR/5, IHIR£0 AHEAO 7lJ ~ R£SI£8.fC4 I N6£PI/.. liRE, SIR. I &KCEU&NCY. A80IJT )0{1. 

7 
the year at innsbruc:k 

vacation --the real work starts 
We dripped away from Kamp Klessheim that wet Saturday morn~ng, launching the break between study at Innsbruck and Salzburg. Though we left summer school with diploma in hand, two weeks of travel would teach us more, and be useful to us longer than the German classes had been. 
The preparations began early. Visas had to be bought for the Communist countries, maps had to be checked, priorities had to be set, and costs had to be calculated. Itseems that the more we researched, the more difficult things got, that a general, flexible itinerary served best. This avoided the extremes of over-planning, which a long trip easily destroys, or of the girl who boarded a train, then asked her companions, "Where are we going?" 
Luggage must be light and tight. Too 
many toiletries, clothes rolls of film, etc., is 
so much dead weight that can become a 
nuisance to keep track of. We all used some 
form of backpack, too, leaving little room to 
work with. They feel like large tumors at 
times, but are much lesser evils than 
suitcases. 
Once on the road, it became obvious that 
this group has a large group of penny­
pinching masochists. Some stuck with 
trains, which furnish comfortable, efficient 
service throughout the continent. But as the 
mileage increases, so do the costs, forcing 
many to use cheaper transportation. 
Biking was one method, though these 
people did it more for the experiences than 
the expenses. Not only could the bikers see 
the countryside of Austria, where they all 
rode, but could stop and walk into it. Alps, 
blowouts, and the weather sometimes made 
things tough, but after they finished, they 
could have the satisfaction of saying, "I did 
it." 
The real pain-lovers took to hitchhiking. 
Aside from the physical misery of standing, 
sometimes for hours, on cold, wet roads, 
they suffered the mental anguish of obscene 
gestures from rich, Mercedes drivers, or 
being let out on a deserted road. When 
things seemed the worst, however, someone 
always came to the rescue with a long ride, 
or offers of food and a free bed. If nothing 
else, it was a cheap, but exhausting way to 
meet the Europeans and their maniacal 
driving habits. 
Once in a city, all kinds of things needed to 
be done, not the least of which was finding 
out where we were. Train stations have 
information booths that pass out maps, but 
with the tangled European streets, the maps 
did not always help. This provided a good 
opportunity to try out German or sign 
language on the natives, who usualy an­
swered in English. 
Depending on the state of the wallet, one of the first places to look for was a money exchange. Once a border is crossed, we had to be certain that we had Swiss francs, French francs, W. German marks, E. German marks, Austrian schillings, Italian lira, or Polish zylots in the right country. If we were broke, traveller's checks had to be cashed, the amount depending on the dollar's value at that moment. The monetary numbers game will plague us all year; this was only the baptism. 
Of next importance was finding a place to bed down, which meant rolling out the sleeping bag in a quiet place, or the youth hostel. Hostelling is very popular in Europe, so bus drivers or little old ladies always spotted the backpack and gave us directions. With a membership card, an overnight stay and a small breakfast costs about $2.00. The hostels are not luxurious, with sunken matresses in a barracks arrangement, and irregular hot water, so going four days without a shower or hot water was not unusual. But they are comfortable for the money, and we could exchange travelling tips with the other people staying there. 
After breakfast, meals became irregular at best. Mostly we survived on bread, cheese and cold cuts, plus visits to the Konditorei <the irresistable bakeries). Hot meals or good, solid food came few and far between, because the prices seemed high. Those who went to Oktoberfest, especially near the end, compensated for the lost calories at a Munich MacDonald's. ("Ein Big-Mac und bier, bitte. ") 
The main point of the vacation, sight­seeing, did not let us off lightly, either. Those who visited relatives living here got to see things the best way. Otherwise, we had to rely on tourist information pam­phlets, which call every other cobblestone scenic, beautiful, and historic. These descriptions drove most of us to buy the Michelin Guide, whose one-, two-, and three star ratings of attractions are accurate and served as a touring Bible. 
The second great feature of Michelin is 
their detailed explanations of the various 
landmarks. Most of us have had little 
education in the great artworks and ar­
chitecture of Europe, so we do not always 
understand or absorb their full meaning. 
With Michelin in hand, we could pick out 
some details and background that we might 
otherwise have missed, thus greatly 
enriching our enjoyment of Europe. 
After a short time, all the little things 
came naturally. We learned to think in 
kilometers, liters, or grams. When someone 
shouted, "Rallo," we automatically turned around, thinking we did something wrong. We remembered to drink water wherever we found it, since public fountains are almost non-existant. In general, we ad­justed to the traveling routine, which in­volved a myriad of such little, but important changes. 

Along these lines the vacation proceeded. We stared out fresh, then sullied as the kilometers wore on. The days started to run together; all churches and paintings began to look alike. Whether Tuesday or Saturday, September or October mattered not. Only the number until we had to be in Innsbruck counted. We felt so out of contact with the world, that not everyone knew the Purdue score until we came to Innsbruck. Almost everyone arrived early, changing into clean clothes and sleep in the same bed more than two nights in a row. 
This vacation had proved a tiring ex­perience, partly because we did not know all of what we were undertaking. Our ignorance compounded and magnified our problems, causing time to drag in spots. But most importantly, we learned, not only the fine points of international travel, but something of ourselves. Travelling in groups, we became close enough so that we could nag at our companions, yet still live with each other constantly, and form stronger friendships. We discovered how far we could exert ourselves in situations that seemed impossible, to solve problems without cheating or calling home for help. 
Seasoned voyagers that we had becme, the bad memories were diminished quickly by the desire to do it again, and do it right this time. 

•

the reward not 1n the headlines· 
The Big Brothers and Big Sisters of Notre Dame provides Notre Dame and St. Mary's students the opportunity to do highly satisfying work with fatherless or motherless youngsters from South Bend. 
The Big Brothers and Big Sisters of St. Joseph County is part of a national organization which gives boys and girls who are on the verge of getting into trouble a stable, moral adult model to look up to, said Steve Kern, chairman of the Notre Dame Big Brothers. The Big Brothers and Big Sisters in St. Joseph County were combined less than two years ago, and so far the merger has worked out well. Previously a Big Sister program was started at St. Mary's but folded, since many of the girls lacked adequate transnortation and consequently couldn't get into town to see their little sister!';, 
In many cases the children are referred to the organization's downtown office by the mothers and, in some instances, by school officials, Kern explained. However, the mother's cooperation is imperative or it is very difficult to get the child into the program. Kern said that in the case of his little brother, the mother wanted a babysitter more than anything else. 
Students who are interested in the 
program must fill out an application stating 
their interests in detail so they can be 
matched with a child with the same in­
terests. Next, the applicant will be in­
terviewed by the South Bend staff, most likely by Executive Director John Sherbun. If the student is accepted as a Big Brother or Big Sister they go through an orientation program to familiarize them with the aspects of a match, problems encountered, and the uniqueness of the program--the one­to-one relationship of big brothers and little brothers or sisters. 
Kern strongly emphasized that anyone interested in the program must be willing to commit him or herself for at least a year to a year and a half. "We don't want people who simply want to get involved in anything," he said. "It wouldn't be fair to a kid if he went through five big brothers in four years." 
The child, who can range in age from seven to seventeen, and his big brother or big sister are introduced to each other by the downtown staff. "After that, it's up to you," Kern explained. "The amount of time and money spent, and the activities are up to you." The big brother or big sister can refer to the downtown staff for advice whenever necessary. The staff also checks up on how the match is going every couple of months. 
Initial activities are very important, Kern said. "It's very difficult to open up, and find common interests at first. It may take as long as a year to establish that rea!ly special relationship." Activities which provide an opportunity for conversation are en­couraged, so the two can find out each other's interests. "My little brother was a TV freak," Kern related. "All I had to do was mention monster movies, and he'd go 
on-for fifteen minutes non-stop." Big 
brothers and big sisters are encouraged to 
see their children once a week, if possible. 
Activities are also planned by the South 
Bend staff. A Christmas party in Stepan 
Center was held December 14. There's 
also a bowling league which is followed at 
the end of the year by an awards dinner, as 
well as trips to Chicago White Sox and Cubs 
ball games. This year there was a 
Halloweeen Party, and plans are in the 
making for a trip to the Indianapolis Time 
Trials. 
After a while, Kern explained, the interest 
of the child starts to decline, particularly 
when he or she enters high school. "It's 
almost as if you're an embarrassment to 
him," Kern said. "This is really hard to 
accept, and you think you're doing 
something wrong." Consequently, the big 
brother becomes a "Big Friend." In this 
case, the two see each other only once every 
couple of months, but continue to see each 
other because of the special relationship 
they've developed. 
Currently in St. Joseph County there are 314 unmatched brothers and sisters. There are seventy pottential big brothers and big . sisters, but many more are needed, Kern ' said, especially black big brothers and sisters. "It's surprising how much demand for the program there is." Married students are welcome into the program, and the spouses are encouraged to get involved with 
the little brother or sister. 
by bob mader 

Some of the financing for the program comes from the United Way. The vast majority of the money, according to Kern, comes from selling Rose Bowl programs in shopping centers and sometimes door-to­door. 
The Big Brothers chapter on the Notre Dame campus was started in 1969 by students and Professor James Daschbach of the Engineering Department. About the same number of students, ap­proximately 230, have been in the program since its inception. 
"It's very rewarding if you put the time into it," Kern said. "You see him grow, and hopefully take on your best qualities. It's a very quiet, satisfying feeling. Your name's not emblazoned in headlines, but you know deep down you've done something." Kern also said that currently there are some pro football players, actors, and other suc­cessful people who credit the program with straightening them' out. · 
Because of the high demand for big 
brother and Big sisters, Kern is trying to 
recruit students for the program. He also 
hopes to get information out to other nearby 
college newspapers. Plans are also being 
made for a Big Brothers and Big Sisters 
Month, tentatively in March. 
Any Notre Dame or St. Mary's 
student who wants information on the 
program can contact either Steve Kern in 
334 Keenan, at 3338, or Jim Lewis, at 234­
6662. Anyone desiring an application should 
see Kern. 

CIA admits existence of files on Americans 
WASHINGTON (UPI) CIA director William E. Colby today acknowledged for the first time that the spy agency set up a cotmter-intelligence unit in 1967 which gathered files on 10,000 American citizens, but denied that the activity was illegal. 
In testimony before a Senate Appropriations subcommittee, Colby also disclosed that a longstanding CIA source informed the agency in 1971 and 1972 of an Spro T. Agnew and kidnap former CIA Director Richard Helms. 
This resulted in the CIA carrying out "physical surveillance in two American cities" after alerting both the FBI and, Secret Service, Colby said. 
Colby denied that any such activity could be classified as illegal domestic intelligence gathering, saying that all current CIA activities are within the limits of its charter. 
The Justice Department said Tuesday it gave the names of more than 10,000 Ameican dissidents to the CIA, but the list was ap­parently different than the one discussed by Colby before thesubcommittee. 
Colby said that on August 15, 1967 the Cia established a counter­intelligence office "to look into the possibility of forging links to American dissident elements." The program was ended in March, 
1974. "In the course of this program," Colby said, "files were established on about 10,000 citizens in the counter intelligence unit." 
Colby gave a 45 page statement to the subcommittee acknowledging that the CIA has made some mistakes. But he said any mistakes were infrequent and stemmed from a misconception of the extent of its charter. 
In his statement, Colby also said a CIA review showed that the agency tappedthe telephones of 21 
U.S. residents between 1951 and 1965 but none thereafter. 
-Revealed that the CIA had operated a program to open 
Israelis and Palestinians clash 
Several Israeli gunboats and Palestinian guerrillas Wednesday fought a 75-minute battle after the warships opened fire on a Palestinian refugee camp at Rshidiyeh, 50 miles south of Beirut, guerrilla officials reported. 
The fighting--denied by the Israeli military command--was reported after an Israeli com­mando raid against the village of Kfar Chouba, one mile inside Lebanon's border with the Israeli­occupied Golan heights, that left two guerrilllas dead and eight soldiers wounded. Israel admitted its troops took five Lebanese civilians with them when they pulled out of the village. 
Declaring that the situation has "deteriorated," the Lebanese gover.tment said it will demand an emergency session of the Arab League's joint defense council. 
"It is our duty now to refer this matter to Arab countries so that they may take the stand that will safeguard Lebanon's security and the interest of the supreme Arab cause," Information Minister Mahmoud AmmaJ; said. 
The Tel Aviv newspaper Yedioth Abronoth said Wednesday that Egypt is agreeable in principle to a three-year disengagement accord in the Sinai Desert if Israel gives up the Sinai oil fields and strategic mountain passes. 
In a dispatch from Washington, the newspaper quoted American sources as saying Egyptian President Anwar Sadat has in­dicated a willingness to allow Israeli-bound cargo to pass through the Suez Canal in non­Israeli ships under such an accord. 
Yedioth also said Israeli Foreign Minister Yigal Allon had added an extra day to his Washington talks because Herman Eilts, U.S. am­bassador to Cairo, had returned to Washington with new information on Egypt.s position. 
Israeli commandos crossed into southeastern Lebanon under heavy artillery cover early Wednesday and kidnapped five shepherds during the fourth consecutive day of heavy fighting in the region, a Lebanese Defense Ministry statement said. 
The Israeli command said eight Israeli soldiers were wounded in the assault against Kfar Chouba. The command said the troops took a father, his three sons and an elderly man from the village for their safety and brought them to Israel. It said they will be returned to Lebanon. 
Palestinian guerrilla spokesmen said Palestian units have killed or wounded 50 Israelis in clashes in the past two days around the village of Kfar Chouba. 
In Haifa, Defense Minister Shimon Peres said rumors of Israeli plans to start another Middle East war are lies reflecting fear by Syria dnthe Palestine Liberation Organization of an Arab-Israeli peace agreement. 
Anti-obscenity law backfires 
PORTLAND, Ore. (UPI) ­When the voters of Oregon passed a new anti-()bscenity law last November they may not have realized they were driving Playboy magazine from the newsstands to radio. 
That happened in Roseburg. 
In Eugene, the district attorney even received a complaint that the Bible was obscene, but he refused to act on that. 
Throughout the state adult book stores and porno movie houses closed when the law became effective Dec. 5, but only temporarily. Now a loosening up process has taken place. 
That's because the new law is a matter of interpretation. It doesn't attempt to define pornography or obscenity. It leaves to local law authorities, mainly district attorneys, to decide what is or is not obscene. 
While the law likely will be challenged on constitutional grounds to an eventual U. S. Supreme Court decision, it has had varied effect throughout Oregon. 
In the beginning, operators of adult book stores and porno movie houses played it cau-
Bengal Bot&s Boxing practice starts January 16 Beginners Welcome 
boxing room -ACC 3:30 
tiously and closed down. Many store existed in some instances, are operating again. Some are and in some of those cases the doing so with "soft-<:ore" porno report is: "Oh, it closed for a material, others unchanged few days, but it reopened from the hard-<:ore variety. without fanfare, and no one 
A Medford theater decided to seems to care." show an x-rated double feature, In Roseburg, the countyand the only ripple it created 
district attorney at the time,
was at the box office. Attend­Doyle Schiffman, had indicated ance was good. The county Playboy and similar magazines
district attorney's office said 
might be suspect under the new
there were "no complaints." 
law. They disappeared fromIn some of the state's smaller magazine racks.
counties, only one adult book­
~......-..-........ 
FRIDAY JAN. 17 
WJVARADIO ~ PRESENTS • ~ ~ :CONWAY TWITTY ·f:~ 
and 
-if The Twitty Birds 
('Hello Darlin" '") You've Never Been This Far Befo 
Featuring . 
Cal Smith • · -·. -:! 
("Country Bumpkin") 
* 
("The Lord Knows l"m Drinkin" ") • : 
* * * * * * * 
Mickey Gilley 
("Room Full of Roses") 
*("l;ve:o~: A".Orc;d"~ 
and introducing Capitol Records Newest Star ...
*Michael Twitty * 
·SJ(
· -~r<~ 
~ 
~ 
.. 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW. ~f =~o~x,~m~ 
RU£RY£D S£1TS $5.50 • $4.51 • $3.50 CHILD Yz PRICE MAIL ORD£RS TO: MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 211 N. MICHIGAN ST. 50. Blf.ld, IND. 46601 EICLDSED SRF-IDOIESSED, STIIIP£D EICYELOPE 

selected mail between the United States and two Communists countries between 1953 and 1973. 
-Said that to his knowledge there had never been "surveillance, technical or otherwise, directed against any member of Congres .." 
On the plot to kill Agnew, Colby said: 
"Also in 1971 and 1972, a longstanding CIA source -a foreigner visiting in the U.S. -told us of a plot to kill the vice president and kidnap the CIA director. 
"We alerted the Secret Service and the FBI and we carried out physical surveillance in two American cities. The surveillance came to involve Amiercans who were thought to be part of the plot and the mail of one suspect was opened and read." 
On Tuesday, Deputy Attorney General Laurence H. Silberman said the CIA was given a com­puterized list of 10,000 to 12,000 names of American radicals in 1970. 

on U.S. 31 Mtw•• llin. So. l•d-Fr• l'ariin&-683--4350 

CONGRATULATIONS NOTRE DAN\E AN> ARA IN THE ORANGE BOWL 

Stlutb fjtnd mribunt 
. . . The newspaper you can count on! 
r-------0rder Your Tribune Now-----.....--j 
Gentlemen:  I  
Please  deliver The Tribune for  the  ENTIRE  I  
semester to my door. My check for $12.00 is enclosed  1  
I  
I  
Ncrrne  -----------------------------­ II  
Se~=~~~~~~-~~~-$~;~~ No.­ --------­ ~~  
The South Bend Tribune, Circulation Dept. 225 W. Colfax Ave., South Bend, Indiana 46626  I I  

L----------------=-=~·""""'··=-"""""'!.~! 
" -. . ·• ' ·.·. ~ .. . ' . '' 
·'· 
...... 
t._rr,.••r••••••..,.,•,•·•••·•-•••••••••••••••••••"••··· 

Thursday, January 16, 1975 the observer 
Economists predict 
Inflation to soar with new energy taxes 
By GENE CARLSON 
WASHINGTON <UPil President Ford's $30 billion in new energy taxes and fees practically assures a second year of double-digit inflation for the United States, according to figures released Wednesday by administration economists. 
Petroleum and natural gas producers socked with a combi­nation of excise taxes, windfall 
profit taxes and tariffs will 
quickly  pass  these  costs  on  to  
consumers  in  the  form  of  
higher prices.  

Gasoline prices, for example, are expected to surge 10 to 15 cents a gallon, on a national average if Ford's plan is approved by Congress. cFamily heating bills will likely surge 25 per cent, his advisers said. 
The result, according to L. William Seidman, Ford's eco­nomic coordinator, will be a 2 per cent surge in the Consumer Price Index, the best known barometer of inflation. 
Since most economists expect that index to rise in the 8 to 9 per cent range during 1975, the added impact of the tax hike would push the index to the neighborhood of 10 per cent ­the so-called double-digit level that symbolizes virulent infla­tion. 

Washington Hall to close temporarily: repair costs estimated at over $30,000 
by Maurie Miller Starr Reporter 

Inadequate wiring for stage lighting and spotlights in the Washington Hall auditorium, with estimated repair costs about $30,000 , have caused the tem­porary halting of theater productions in the auditoriun:. 
According to Brother K1eran Ryan, Assistant Vice President for Business Affairs, the defective wiring was discovered during a routine fire inspection by an in­surance inspector. After security and administration officials were made aware of the faulty system, the wiring was considered "too dangerous for continued stage productions" involving lighting and was termed as being "inadequate for use." 
The matter of repair of the defective wiring is now under consideration for some allocation of funds, according to Brother Kieran. An estimate of the amount of renovation to be done to the stage or the auditorium or when the renovation could be expected could not be given, however, due to the need for funds not yet allocated. The only estimate given for repair costs was in excess of $32,800. 
With the discontinuation of use of the stage for theatrical produc­tions, the performance of Medea, scheduled in Washington Hall for early February was forced to move to O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's. Tentative dates for the production are in early February, near those previously scheduled, according to Professor Reginald Bain, production advisor. 
"The theater in the hall is old and needs to be updated," says Bain, "and may be this will bring about a decision to renovate the entire building." Not only is the wiring and electrical system un­safe, says Bain, but the stage rigging is the original equipment in the hall and is unsafe for theater use. 
"If the entire auditorium were to 
be renovated, it would make it 
much easier to do things all 
around. We would be able to utilize 
the stage much better." 
Even the seating in the hall could 
use renovation, according to Bain. 
"The building is old and was 
not designed for exactly what it is 
being use for. Many seats could be 
improved to have better sight and 
hearing for productions." 

'Inside job' speculated 
SMC infir~nary reports robbery 
by Pattie Cooney Contributing Editor 

St. Mary's Health Service has reported the theft of a black and white portable television and clock radio. The burglary took place 
between  1  p.m.  Wednesday,  
January  8,  and  8  a.m.  Friday,  
January 10.  

All the infirmary employees were on vacation at the time. Mrs. Verna Wood, R.N., directore of the health service left the in­firmary Wednesday afternoon and did not return until Friday mor­ning. 
"When I left Wednesday, I locked up as usual, after the carpet people finished installing the carpet near the door," Wood ex­plained 
The television and radio were taken from the waiting room of the infirmary. "The burglars gained access to the waiting room by removing hinges to the door," explained Director of St. Mary's Security, Anthony Kovatch. The infirmary is located on the third floor of the west annex of Le Mans Hall. 
A student room in Le Mans located directly above the health service was also burglarized. Again the door was removed from the hinges, according to Kovatch. 
A clock radio and a black and white portable television with AM­FM radio and digital clock, was 
reported stolen by Amy Whitehill, and occupant of the burglarized room. 
Over Christmas break, wall-to­wall carpeting was installed in all the corridors of Le Mans hall. All the room doors had to be opened to permit the installation of the carpets. Security checks each room before and after installation. 
"I'm convinced that this is an inside job," assured Kovatch. "How would an outsider know exactly which rooms had TV's, when there are approximately 500 residents housed in Le Mans? 
THINK. Ca.LEGE LIFE 
JNSURANCE CO. OF Al\~ERICA Whoever did this knew exactly what he was looking for, where he could get it and agood time to do it unnoticed," Kovatch further ex­plained. 
There were no students Jiving on campus at the time of the burglaries except one girl living in Augusta for four days. All buildings were locked after 5 P.M., and a guard patrolled Madeleva and Le Mans halls at night. 
Prior to the Christmas Break, twenty-five thefts were reported by students Jiving in the residence halls. "However in almost every case the student had left her door unlocked while at class, taking a shower, visiting down the h~ll, doing laundry or something like that," Kovatch said. In most in­stances just money was taken, but in a few cases jewelry, especially family heirlooms were reported stolen. 
Another instance of theft oc­curred in Madeleva before break. A stereo was reported stolen from a professor's office. "In this in­stance there was no forceable entry; whoever did it had a key," commented Kovatch. 
In all cases St. Mary's College is not responsible for the loss of private property. The television that was stolen from the health service was purchased by two of the nurses, Mrs. Chelminiak and Mrs. Hillock. "We got the T.V. for the students who had to stay in the infirmary on the weekends," explained Chelminiak. 
Hefner aide's death ruled suicidein coroners report 
CHICAGO <UPil -Playboy publisher Hugh Hefner's executive secretary gulped lethal doses of three drugs before she died in a locked hotel room, a coroner's report showed Wednesday. 
Coroner Andrew J. Toman said a toxicological examination showed that Bobbie Arnstein, 32, died of a combination of lethal doses of a barbiturate, a sleeping pill and a tranquilizer. 
He said there was no evidence of "hard drugs" or alcohol in the body of the Hefner aide, who in­vestigators said left a suicide note before she took her own life. 
Miss Arnstein was under a conditional 15 year sentence on a conviction of federal drug charges, and Hefner charged she was driven to suicide by investigators out to "get" him and his organization. 
Miss Arnstein's body -the note and bottles of pills nearby -was found Monday in a room at the Maryland Hotel on Chicago's near north side. Funderal services were held Wednesday. 
Hefner, wearing a skull cap and his hand resting protectively on the casket, served as a pallbearer. 
Toman said toxicologists found in her body quantities of Mebral, a barbiturate-used to control epilpsy; Placidyl, a sleeping pill, and valium, a tranquilizer, Each drug was present in a quantity that would kill, he said. 
------· 
Mel Brooks; 
j 

from the people who gave you "The Jazz Sl:nger" ADULtS 
DOORS
~ENDS 
OPEN 
.~1 TONIGHT 
7:00 
The index is expected to show a rise of about 12 per cent in the cost of living for 1974 when the final figures are in. 
The tax hike is being offered 
side-by-side  with  a  two-pronged  
tax  cut-a  $12  billion,  12  per  
cent  rebate  on  personal  income  

and $4 billion for business investment incentives in 1974 and $25 billion in additional tax cuts for business and individu­als plus payments to low­income Americans in 1975 and beyond. 
The idea is that Americans will spend, and not save, this extra money, thus spurring a new demand for retail goods and services badly needed by a sluggish economy. Increased production would also help cut 

But Seidman told reporters prior to Ford's State of the Union message that "no one can be sure" that consumers, facing a cloudy economic 
future, won't  decide in  large  
numbers  to  sit  on  their  
windfall,  or  stash  it  in  a  

savings account at a modest rate of interest. 
Such a trend would make more money available for lending by financial institutions but would do little in the short run to fight the causes of recession. 
"The general propensity to spend has been high in the past," Seidman said. A quick wave of retail buying backed by the $12 billion in combined 1974 tax rebates "is the 

THE INDIANAPOLIS Symphony Orchestra returns to Saint 
Mary's College for one performance Sunday, January 19, at 3 p.m. 
in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 

Tickets are $1.50 for adults and $1.00 for students, and are available through the office of programming, Moreau Hall, 284­4176, Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. or at the door the day of the concert. 
N:IGHBORHOOD STlDV HELP PRESENTS 
PRETTY MAIDS 
ALL IN A ROW(R) 
STARRING: Angie Dickinson Rock Hudson 
Telly Savalas 
.. 
SAT.ond SUN. Jan 18, 19 8 and 10 PM $1.00 
PLUS W.C. FIELDS SHORT 
NICKlE'S 
BURGER & BEER SPECIAL 

from 11:30 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
JVONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY 
'/2 POUND HAMBURGER 
AND A 12 OUNCE BEER 
FOR ONLY $1.00 
leers win two,drop three on road 
by Bob Kissel 
Ice hockey and basketball as sports don't share much in com­mon. But both Notre Dame varsity coaches, Lefty Smith and Digger Phelps have similar tales about their trials and tribulations on the road over the holidays. 
Notre Dame 7, Boston College 4 
Led by a couple natives of Massachusetts, Brian Walsh and Len Moher, the Irish outfought and outscored the Eagles 7-4 in a rough game, marked by fierce checking. Notre Dame took the game away from Boston early enough in the game to withstand a late BC rally. 
Alex Pirus gunned a slapshot past Eagle goalie Terry Smith but 14 seconds after the opening faceoff. Brian Walsh fed Pirus on the first goal and scored another on a breakaway. The Irish scored l:'arly in the second period for a 3-{) lead. 
Clark Hamilton, on passes from 
Pirus and Walsh, gave ND a 4-{) 
l:'dge midway through the second 
period. Boston College got their 
game together and scored three 
goals late in the second period, 
while Notre Dame added but one 
more for the 5-3 lead. The Eagles' 
Mark Albrecht narrowed the 
margin to one goal at the five 
minute mark of the closing period, 
but two quick goals by NO's Geoff 
Collier and Paul Clarke put the 
game away. Len Moher had a busy 
night in the nets making 44 saves. 
Harvard 8, Notre Dame 2 
The Irish icers, tired and 
depleted with numerous injuries, 
gave up two quick goals and never 
got baci\ into the game at Har­
vard's Watson Ice Arena. Again 
Len Moher kept Notre Dame in the 
game when it appeared Harvard 
would have an easy victory, 
making 45 saves for the night. 
Alex Pirus led the Irish 
resurgence in the second period, 
scoring the first Irish goal. The 
Irish, using a rugged style of play, 
managed to stay alive in the 
second period. outshooting Har­vard 23:12, but took too many penalties. Harvard took charge in the third period scoring five goals, against Pirus' second goal of the night. 
Michigan 7, Notre Dame 4 
As bas been the previous case, quick unanswered goals have eliminated possible Notre Dame victories, both at home and on the road. Before 4103 fans at Michigan's Yost Ice Arena, the Wolverines scored two goals in 11 seconds in the tird period to make a tie game a coast to victory. 
Michigan opened the scoring but 41 seconds into the game on an unassisted goal by Don Fardig. Brian Walsh got the power play equalizer at 4: 18, on a good cen­tering effort by Clark Hamilton. Fardig scored his second goal of the night at 16:35 for the 2-1 ad­vantage, but senior Pat Conroy teamed with frosh Don Jackson to tie the game at two apiece at 17:49. Len Moher was able to survive a hard slap shot which caught him in the throat to make 8 saves in the period. 
Notre Dame took the lead at 
12:28 on an off balance wrister by Terry Fairholm, after Geoff Collier made a sparkling in­dividual effort at his center position. Michigan tied the game at 16:29 on a goal by Kris Manery, then took the 4-3lead at 17:23 on a shot by Randy Neal. Allen Karsnia snuck a tip-in shot just under the period's buzzer at 19:59, with the assists going to Brian Walsh and Don Jackson. 
The Wolverines took charge of the game on successive unan­swered markers by brothers Tom and Doug Lindskog at 9: 15 and 9: 16 of the closing session. Pat Hughes got the final goal for Michigan at 18:51. 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan 4 
The Irish reversed Friday pight's score in game of numerous penalties (23). Mike Baumgartner 
New A and L programs approved 
(continued from page 3) 
"We want to wait a while after the l:'nd of last semester to let people think about it but we will have the survey ready for the next Council meeting," McLauhglin explained. 
At the last meeting of the semester, held after the Observer ceased publication, the Council approved two new programs for the College of Arts and Letters at 
the request of the College advisory 
board. 
Intended to broaden op­portunities open to students, the "1-2-1" program would allow those sophomores opting for it to enter a major and complete the requred courses by the end of their junior year, leaving the senior year open . to a wide variety of electives in­tended to broaden their per­
spective. 
Flanner J-Board reviews eviction 
(continued from page S) 
Tom Costello, Flanner Hall Judicial Co-ordinator, said his group will examine both sides of the controversy and report the findings to the rector. 
Costello said the only real power the board has in the matter is to "go on record as to how we feel about the situation." The board is still holding closed-door informal hearings and should have a report prepared by next week, Costello added. 
"The Hall Judicial Board. is currently reviewing the case and will make recommendations to the rector on the issue," McGuire stated. "Nothing else can be cone for them. They're out. They're gone." 
"We can only prevent it from happening again," McGuire concluded. "In this case, Flanner Hall has set an ugly and dangerous precedent." 
The Flanner Hall Council has adopted a resolution condemning the actions in the case. 
Mardi Gras or Spring Vacation in New Orleans? Stay at the 
OLO TOWH VILLA 
....and save money! 
Intimate French Quarter villa restored to meet your every need. Tour­ist apartments by the week starting from $100. All feature new _private baths and kitchen facilities. Stay in the heart of the fabulous French Quarter and SAVE MONEY' Send for free brochure_ 
••6l6 Ursuline.Sf.-N4!!WOrleens.·~.-.:;'OH 6 AC(504-) 522·1 793 
scored his first varsity goal at 1:21, with the assists deservedly going to linemates Alex Pirus and Clark Hamilton. Saturday night's game started to look like an instant replay of Friday, as Michigan reeled off three straight goals at 
5:03 by Angie Moretto, at 6:21 again by Moretto, and at 7:05 by Kris Manery. 
Notre Dame did not lie down in face of the Wolverines' three goal lead. Brian Walsh scored a power play slapper at 9:00 of the first period, with the assist to Pat Conroy. Kevin Nugent drilled a 50 foot boomer past Michigan goalie Frank Zimmerman at 12:42. Dan Byers pulled the string from his blueline defense position at 17:29 for the tying goal. In this wild opening period, with eight goals and eight penalties, John Peterson shined in making 20 saves. 
Notre Dame took the game away from the Wolverines on two goals scored within 50 seconds in the middle period. Terry Fairholm tallied his secomd goal of the series at 16:35, teaming with center Geoff Collier for the 5-4 lead. Mark Olive scored at 17:21, with the assist to Ray Johnson, giving ND a comfortable two goal lead. NO's defense tightened up, as Peterson made only five saves, while Zimmerman turned aside 16. 
Clark Hamilton had the only score of the final period. Hamilton took the feeds from Walsh and Jackson from the points and pout a backhander in above Zim­merman's shoulder for the 7-4 final total. 
Minnesota 8, Notre Dame 1 
The Minnesota Golden Gophers showed why they are ranked the number one hockey team in the nation Friday night, January 10, at Williams Arena. The skaters from Gold Country showed their high­powered attack from the start, forcing Irish mistakes in their own zone. The Irish fell behind 3-{) in the first period, on goals by Tony Dorn (12:01), Pat Phippen (12;31), and Tom Dahlheim (14:07). The second period was a continuation of the first's scoring rampage, as Minnesota again scored three goals, this time by Warren Miller (5:23), Mike Polich (7:57), and Mike Polich (8:46). Brian Walsh tallied NO's lone marker at 8:06 of the second period. The power play goal was assisted by sophs Jack Brownschidle and Alex Pirus. Minnesota added two tallies in the closing period, by Tom Younghans <4:12) and Joe Baker (10:02), to end a long night for the Irish. 

Minnesota 5, Notre Dame 3 
As in the loss to Michigan, quick goals again killed Irish hopes for a well-deserved victory. Leading 3-2 after two periods, Minnesota, at ten seconds into the final period <Buzzy Schneider) and at 1:14 <Pat !Phippen)~ scored to give the 
Gophers a 4-3 lead which they never relinquished. 
John Peterson made an un­
believable 25 saves in the first 
period alone , and his efforts 
between the posts limited Min­
nesota to just one goal, that at 8:58 
by Bryan Fredrickson. The 
Gophers were pushing ND all over 
the ice in the opening period, but 
Peterson denied countless goal possibilities. 
Geoff Collier tied the score at 1-1, just 3:35 into the middle stanza, capitalizing on a high bouncing rebound off a Brian Walsh slap shot. Minnesota took the lead again at 10:57 on a power play rebound goal by Les Auge. 
Dave Bossy intercepted a Gopher pass in front of the Min­nesota net and scored at 16:43 for the tying goal. Terry Fairholm was in perfect position for an Alex Pirus feed. Fairholm rocketed a 15 slapped at 18:49 for NO's short­lived advantage. 
Minnesota got their final goal of the game on anopen net wrister by Robin Larson at 19:01. John Peterson stopped an incredible 52 shots in the game, while Minnesota goalie Jeff Tscherne had to stop but 28 Irish shots. 
(continued to page 11) 


NOW FEATURING ••• 
A BRAND NEW 
DANCE ROOM 
BOOGIE WITH YOUR FAVORITE OLDIES BUMP TO MOTOV\If\J BARRY VVHITE & BTO
I 

EVERY WEDNESDAY THRU SATURDAY 
from 9:00 • CLOSING 


~~~-----------. 
Thursday, January 16, 1975 the observer 
11 

ND cagers split holiday games 
72. Dantly again led all scorers with 30 points, but not even he could pull his flustered teammates through a sloppy second-half. 
Phelps was probably eager enough to begin a new year when the cagers finished out 1974 with a 113-96loss to Kentucky Wildcats at Louisville. A.D. Dantley poured in 39 points in the losing cause. 
Another 35 points by Dantley and 20 more from Bill Paterno helped the Irish open the new year with a 93-83 victory over Butler, but they 
still had fourth-ranked Mayrland to contend with. 
ND stayed with the taller Terrapins for the first fifteen minutes of the game until falling to a 37-46 halftime deficit. The Irish remained close throughout the second half, but the tough Maryland front line thwarted any surges and the Terrapins cruised to a 90-82 victory. John Lucas was high scorer for Maryland with 23 points, while Dantley tallied 29 to again lead all scoring. 

The Irish finally said goodbye, with little remorse no doubt, to their opponents in the top five of college basketball and moved on to impressive victories over Davidson and Villanova. Dantley poured in 38 points, and Bill Paterno added 14 to life the cagers over Davidson 89-73. A.D. notched 37 markers last Saturday in the Palestra to help the Irish to a 125-90 drubbing of Villanova. Don Marquette, but which the Irish 27 turnovers, most in the second "Duck" Williams scored his were figured to beat, the young half, as they fought their way back season high with 20 points while cagers squandered a fifteen point to a tie at the end of regulation
frosh Dave Batton added 17, to the lead in the second half, and finally time. Pitt then completelydelight of his hometown lost in overtime, 84-77. dominated the faltering Irish in the Philadelphia fans. The Irish seemed to be handling overtime period and capptured an 
Just when they were looking the Panthers fine, led at halftime, upset 84-77 win. good, and with a chance to return and began well in the second half. Though Digger would probably home with three straight road But the town of Pittsburgh was still like to take a holiday from his victories, the inexperience showed roused over the recent Steeler "holiday"schedule, he can afford up again, and along with it, victory in the Super Bowl, and it no rest with Marquette, Holy Cross inevitably, the turnovers. Playing seemed to rub off on the Panthers. and UCLA again coming up. New a Pitt team which had upset They forced ND into a season-high Years Resolution? Play Iowa. 
Wrestlers open home schedule tonight 
by Ernie Torriero Pszeracki, a Pennsylvania and Fritz Bruening at 142 and 150 semifinalist in high school, is a respectively. The rest of the Irish The Notre Dame wrestling team, candidate at 190 while last year's starting lineup is expected to in­undefeated after three matches on heavyweight champion Ken Dike clude Skip Mondragon at 118, Steve the road, opens its home schedule and Tom Frericks will battle for Moylan at 126, Dan Heffernan at Thursday night in the ACC's the previously vacant heavyweight 134, freshman Mike Padden for Auxiliary Gym with East position. John Dowd at 158, Mike Kemp at 
Stroudsburg State (Pa.). The Irish A pair of freshmen, Pat 167, Chip Habig or Bob Drager at then take to the road for a McKillen and Pat Landfried, have 177. triangular meet Saturday at beaten out co-captains Dave Boyer 

Greencastle, Ind., with host DePauw and Xavier. 
Injury-plagued East Stroud­sburg had a 4-7 record prior to the start of this week's four-match road swing of which Notre Dame is the third stop. Nearly every veteran Warrior wrestler, in­cluding NCAA Division II third­place finisher Bob Stetler,. has missed matches due to injuries. The Bright spot for East Stroud­sburg has been 150-pounder Gary Kessel who has posted a 10-1 record in dual meets. Other Warrior wrestlers with winning records i!lclude Gene Ulrich at 158 who is 5-2 and heavyweight Don Lehmar.. who is 6-1-1. 
As in past years the Irish will be strengthened during the second part of the season by additions from the football team. Joe 

Irish icers go 2-3 over break 
(continued from page 10) The Tigers have scoring con­sophomores Paul Clarke, Rogersistently with all-freshman line of Bourque, and Ray Johnson and an
The Irish are now 6-11-1 in the center Jim Kronshnable, wing Jim injury to Pat Novitski. On offenseWCHA, with their 13 points giving Warner, and winger Mike Smith reunites the soph connection them a seventh place tie with Haedrich. Besides solid defensive of Brian Walsh-Alex Pirus-ClarkDenver. This weekend the Notre work from his blueline corps of Hamilton, Pat Conroy-TerryDame icers take on third place Jim Stebe,·Jim Mitchell, Dave Fairholm-Mark Olive, GeoffColorado College, owning a tough Hanson, and Greg Smith, Sauer Collier-Kevin Nugent-Allenrecord of 12-6-o in the league, for also is fortunate to have a total of Karsnia, and Don Fairholm-Timtheir seventh and eighth straight 65 offensive points from his very Byers-Jim Augustine.
games on the road. 
capable blueliners. Defensively Coach Smith hasIn the teams' previous meeting The Colorado series presents paied Don Jackson-Dick Howe,at the Notre Dame, the Irish another tough challenge for the Dave Bossy-Jack Brownschidle,dropped two close contests to the Irish, who haven't seen home ice and Les Larson-Dan Byers. As hasTigers 2-1 and 3-2. Coach Jeff since December 15th. been the case most of the season,Sauer has two outstanding Irish hockey coach Lefty Smith Smith will probably start Lengoaltenders in Eddie Mio and Dan has had to reshuffle his lines of­Moher Friday .night in goal, whileGriffith, both among the leaders in fensively and defensively due to John Peterson will go Saturdaythe WCHA goaltenders race. 

the academic ineligibility of night for the Irish. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
One or two housemates. Private 

SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS bedrooms. Close to campus. Good PRESENTS THE MARSHALL neighborhood-call 233-5925 TUCKER BAND AND MICHAEL 
MURPHY IN CONCERT AT THE NOTICES MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM THIS SUNDAY NIGHT. TICKETS 
Hash Brown Blues Band available 

NOW ON SALE AT THE for your dance or party. Call 272-STUDENT UNION TICKET 9895 (evenings) for information OFFICE. 
FOR RENTOverseas Jobs-Australia, Europe, 
S. America, Africa. Students all 

503 West Jefferson Duplex 3 room professions and occupations. $700 
furnished apartment . first floor. to $3000 monthly. Expenses paid, 
Gas heat furnished. overtime, sightseeing; Free in­
289-6307 234-0596 formation 
TRANSWORLD RESEARCH CO. 

Top Floor $40 mo. Rides. Air Cond.
Dept F3, P.O. Box 603, Corte Fireplace, Kitchen 233-1329

Madera, Ca. Days: 283-7579 Patty 
Used & New Books for these 5 Bedroom house for rent. Close to

classes: campus. Call 233·2613
A.M. Studies 470, 474, 482 Col. 
Seminar 180, 322, 421. Eng. 109, 
180, 186, 303, 313, 322, 326, 328, 331, PERSONALS362, 382, 384, 385, 386, 392B, 421 B, 
482, 486, 490, 496, 505B, 505C, 579, 

Snooks, 588. General Program 108, 282, 
Sure did miss ya at Christmas, but 342, 346, 382, 442, 444, 482. Govt. 
now that we are back, everything 180, 340, 342. Hist. of Mex. Mod. 
is blissful. Hope you recover from Lang. 452, 459, 462. Phil. 101, 180, 
your battle wounds quickly. 201, 245, 275, 351, 426, 441. Theo. 
Anyone told you that you look 122, 126, 222, 210, 302, 330, 346, 356, 
sharp? love ya always 402, 446. Bear Pandoras Books 602 N. St. Louis 
ND.SMC Counc.il for the Retarded organizational meeting for new & old members tonight 7:30 NO Library Auditorium 


Irish upset 'Bam a in Ara' s finale 

,.. 
where quarterbacks Todd and Gary Rutledge were 15 of 29 for 223 yards. 
But the forward pass is a little used weapon in the Alabama ar­senal and two key misfires sabatoged the Tide's comeback efforts. 
The first came with 6:30 left to play in the third quarter after Alabama had driven 56 yards to the Notre Dame 13. Sophomore strong safety John Dubenetzky, who had been playing havoc in the Tide backfield all night, went downfield this time and picked off a Todd pass intended for split end Russ Schaun, safekeeping, for the time being at least, a 13-3 Notre Dame lead. 
The second was the errant aerial which Barnett snared. 
Beforehand, in theJirst half to be exact, the Irish offense did their only productive work of the evening. 
Eleven minutes into the first quarter NO's Tony Brantley punted 36 yards to Willie Shelby who called for a fair catch and then fumbled the ball to AI Samuel at the Tide 16. Five plays later Wayne Bullock, who had been stricken with the flu all week, crashed over right tackle from the four giving the Irish a 7-Q lead. 
The second Notre Dame score was the result of an exquisite 77 yard, six minute and thirty-one second drive directed by Tom Clements. The key play, again, turned out to be an Alabama mistake. On fourth and five from the Alabama 28, Dave Reeve was attempting a 45 yard field goal when Ricky Davis jumped offside. 
"We made some mistakes," said Bear, "that's coaching." 
The five yards gave the Irish a first down and four plays later Mark McLane powered nine yards for the score. Reeve missed the extra point. 
'Barna got on the board with 1:45 left in the first period on a 21 yard field goal by Danny Ridgeway. 
Alabama discovered its effective if rusty passing game in the second half. The tide put together a couple of promising drives but a missed field goal and five badly thrown passes prevented Bryant's squad from closing the gap until late in the fourth quarter. 
With 4:29 left to play Todd hit Schamun just out of the reach of a diving Randy Payne with a 14 yard toss. Schamun sprinted the final34 yards narrowing the margin to 13­
9. Bryant decided to go for two and 
Todd hit George Pugh slipping across the middle for the all­important conversion g1vmg 'Barna a chance to win it with a field goal. 
"I thought when we got the two that we would win because then all we had to do was get into field goal range," said Bryant afterwards. 
"The kids played well and it was almost like a carbon copy of the game last year with Alabama in broken foot," said Ara. "And he the Sugar Bowl," said Parseghian. would have stayed in there if he A field goal late in this game would hadn't pulled a muscle in his other have won it, too. But we had two key leg by favoring the injured foot." interceptions." It was a season of injuries, all 

"Our kids played with as much ~ypes. It started wi~h _su~pe~sions 
pain and injury as I've ever seen, m the summer, the m]une~ .m _the 
continued Ara. "Kevin Nosbusch fall, the So~thern ~al hu!luhat10n, 
knows he will have to undergo even Ara s resignati_on last 
cartilage surgery, but the doctors December. Th~ whol~ mghtmare 
told him he wouldn't do any more ~eemed to culn;mat~ With the st?rY 
damage to his knee if he played. m the Sa~ Fra~cisco C'hromcle 
He went as far as he could until he about racial disturbances and 
twisted the knee late in the game. dissension. · . 
"Collins did not practice for the "I wi_sh you could have been m 
last few days after hurting his knee here right after the game was 
in a motorcycle accident but he over," said Ara. You would have 
went the whole game.' And seen that there's not a word of 
Bullock, who had the flu and truth to that sto~y o_ut of Sa_n 
missed a whole week's training, Francisco about _disum~y on th~s 
was very sick after the game"hut team. We have fme umty o!l this 
still managed 83 yards rushing_ .. 1 team, as much as any team m the 
am tremendously proud-of all of country." . 
them for their efforts." And was the wm over Alabama ~ 
Center Mark .. Brenneman cure-all for all that had happ_ened;, 
started despite a broken foot. "He . :·u made uP. for a few thmgs,, 
played with a tennis shoe on his satd Barnett, but not all of them. 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 

Alabama quarterback, Richard Todd, threw more passes than he did all season in the Orange Bowl including perfect strikes to Irish backs Reggie BarneH and John Dubenetuky. Dubenetzsky gets set to remind Todd again of the difference in uniforms. 
by Greg Corgan Sports Editor 
Common sense dictates cer­tain guidelines. You don't pick a fight with Philadelphia's Dave Schulz or drive the lane against Kareem Abdul Jabbar. And you don'tmentionthe name Shumate or Brokaw to Digger Phelps or grade point averages to Lefty Smith. You also don't try to run against Notre Dame. But most of all, you don't face Ara Parseghian in his last college game, after he's been beaten 55-24, and expect to win. 
Bear Bryant should have known that. After all he has reached the wise old age of 62 and when he gets to be 63 he may opt not to go to a bowl at all. For the eighth time he has failed to win a post season contest and for the second time in two years he has lost to Notre Dame, this time 13-11 in Miami's Orange Bowl. 
It cost him dearly. The Bear has now lost two national cham­pionships by a total of three points. Instead of Ara, he probably feels he ought to be the one to resign. Like his Irish counterpart three weeks earlier, Bryant looked worn and beaten. As he left the lockerroom after the game he could muster only one last com­ment. "I just want to go home," he said. 
One must look at the loser, to appreciate the winner. And the winner on New Year's night was Parseghian. 
It was a very special win for Ara because it was his last at Notre Dame. Parseghian announced on Dec. 8 that he would resign his head coach position effective immediately after the Orange 
I 
Bowl. 
"We were talking about how it 
was Coach's last game," said hero · Reggie Barnett, "and how it would be nice to win it. A lot of the guys 
wanted to get it together." 
Barnett did the most to help the 
cause. His crucial interception 
with just over a minute and a half 
to play in the ball game preserved 
the Irish victory. The senior 
defensive back stole a Richard 
Todd pass on the Notre Dame 34 
just as it seemed Alabama would 
march to within field goal range 
and kick the winning three-pointer. 
Todd had brought his ball club to 
the ND 38 after connecting on two 
first down passes. 
"When they completed that 
second pass, I was thinking, 'Don't 
make it another Southern Cal,"' 
Barnett related. 
"I knew we were in jeopardy on 
a possible field-goal attempt," said 
Parseghian. "But I knew that the 
defense would hold on. They had 
been making the big plays all 
night. 
Parseghian went on to talk about 
his last game. 
"I didn't overburden the team 
with this being my last game," he 
said. "I thanked them as 
profoundly as I could after the 
game because this is something I'll 
always remember." 
The only people overburdened 
were 'Barna's offensive linemen. 
"I knew our offensive front four 
could not control their defensive 
front," said Bryant. The Tide 
could manage only 62 yards 
rushing against an awesome Irish 
front ·four and linebackers Greg 
Collins, Drew Mahalic and Tom 
Eastman. Alabama moved suc­
cessfully only through the air 
Ara Parseghian contemplates the action New Year's night in the Orange Bowl. 
Ara's era ends 
With Notre Dame's 13-11 Orange saggmg Irish football program Bowl victory over Alabama, head with a 9-1 mark his rookie season, a coach Ara Parseghian closed an near national championship and a eleven year career at the coach-of-the-year honors. University as the second win-In his eleven year reign, he kept 
ingest coach in Irish football his teams in college football's elite 
tistory. Parseghian announced his Top Ten eight years and had only retirement unexpectedly one season with as many as three December 8 indicating concern for losses. He directed his teams in is health and family com-five bowl game encounters win­mitments in his decision. ning three as Notre Dame ended its 
In his illustrious career at Notre 44 ~~ar absence from post-season Dame, Parseghian guided his plif!Sh teams to two national cham-The "Era of Ara" ends with pionships and a 94-17-4 record Parseghian's most trying season placing him behind only the as the Irigh field general. The legendary Knute Rockne in vic-suspension of six players during tories. Figuring most the summer session, a string of prominently¥ in the two national injuries, and an embarrass!ng 5_5­titles were 1966's "game of the 24 defeat to Southern Cahforma century," a controversial 10-10 tie fatally impaired Parseghian 's with Michigan State, and 1973's quest for basck-to-back national "game of the century," the 24-23 titles. Sugar Bowl victory over Alabama. Parseghian stated prior to the 
The 51-year old Parseghian Orange Bowl victory that he wquld came to South Bend in 1964 take at least one year sabbatical following stints at his alma mater, before considering professional Miami <Ohio), and Northwestern. coaching offers. 
,He immediately "esurrected a , 

' 
l t 









