

Mikulski raps present conditions 
Students to return after expulsion from Sorin 
by Jeanne Murphy 
hall problem but he feels the entire he continued.Copy Editor University ought to be aware of it. "The party was larger than we Four Sorin residents will be Observer lnsit;~ht Disciplinary action against the 
expected", he said. Ap­
allowed to return to their hall four was decided by the hall staff. 
proximately 40 to 50 people at­tomorrow after a one week Mike Fitzsimmons, Tim Boyle, Delehanty, spokesman for the Delehanty explained that they tended; some were invited by the 
disciplinary exile. They have been and Joe Antonelli are being group. were given the option to bring their four hosts and others just rambled residing temporarily in Flanner disciplined for arranging a party Fr. Richard Zang, Sarin Rector, case to Dean of Students John 
in from other sections of the dorm. 
after being expelled from Sorin by where alcohol was served in the refused to comment on the issue Macheca or appear before the hall Although the hall staff informed Fr. Richard Zang, hall rector, on presence of minors. They are also claiming that it was an "internal staff for a decision. 
the hosts that some of the guests 
two counts of violating alcohol and charged with parietal violations, matter and a personal problem to Although Macheca was not in­had to leave the party because of parietal regulations. even though the party reportedly the people involved." Delehanty volved in the disciplinary action, its size, Delehanty said they did not Sophomores Kevin Delehanty, ended at 2:10 a.m., according to agreed that the event was indeed a he was informed of the incident by turn anybody away. a letter written to him by the hall Not only were the sophomoresAt Walsh Seminar staff, Delehanty said. charged with violating University 
"The party was not organized to rules, they were also held antagonize the hall staff," responsible for actions and Delehanty said. The party was to damages including a broken
Panelists diSCI.& alcoholism 
celebrate a friend's engagment bathroom door and abusive audience an idea of the magnitude and birthday. Delehanty ex­language to an RA. "At the time
two main themes brought upby Martha Fanning 
of the disease. "70 per cent of all plained that a friend who had just we did not know that we could be
Staff Reporter during the questioning dealt with 
adults over 15 drink. One out of 10 transfered from ND to Manhattan held responsible for other people's 
'what a person can do to help
The problems of alcoholism were are in some state of alcoholism. College last semester returned to actions," Delehanty conferred.
someone they think is an alcoholic
discussed last night in a seminar There are 10 million alcoholics in gather his belongings, and the four The four students realized when 
and how can one tell if a person is
held in the basement of Walsh Hall. the U.S." roommates decided to throw a they planned the party the im­
an alcoholic.
The panel consisted of two It is not known how many women party for him, Friday, January 17. plications involved in breaking the 
Anyone of the symptoms men­
counselors at Memorial Hospital: are alcoholics. Many are hidden According to opinions of some of University's regulations on
tioned earlier can indicated that
Phyliss Plaut, and Dee Smith, because they are not a member of the members of the hall staff, alcohol. Last semester they
the person is an alcoholic or has
Diane and Sylvia <name withheld the work force, but it is believed Delehanty stated, "the party got sponsored another party and were
the potential to become one. 
upon request). that the ratio of women to men is out-i>f-hand", and they were asked subsequently caught violating the
Alcoholics have a high tolerance
All of the panel members have increasing. to end it. "We gracefully refused," 
level when they first begin to (continued on pg 6)had direct contact with the disease The next panelist to speak was drink.
of alcoholism. Phyliss Plaut, a Sylvia, a former alcoholic and 
The alcoholic has to realize the
member of Alcoholics Anonymous, member of A.A. She related some they have the disease and want to
began the discussion by stating the .--... ~~ f
of her experiences, stating that she cure it before they can be helped.
definition of alcoholism: had "become aware of the "Don't cover up for them, let them 
"Alcoholism is a disease that =r~
situation through other people." suffer the consequences of their causes it's victims to be dependent 
actions. Suffering until the end r··An alcoholic can only go twoon alcohol. In order to meet the 
will help to make them realize
ways, either they drink themselves ordinary demands of living, the 
what they've done," Plaut stated.
to death or become a vegetable,"alcoholic continues to drink ex­
Confronting the person with their 
she added.
cessively even after alcohol has 
problem is another way to help.
adversely affected his health, The last member of the panel to 
"The best thing to do is to get all 
personal relations, or economic speak was Dee Smith, who 
the information you can about
functioning. Unlike the majority of described herself as "an alcoholic 
alcoholism. Sometime in your life 
Americans, who drink, the chronic for 32 years and I didn't know it." 
you're bound to come into contact
alcoholic has a physical and She stated that she had always 
with soemone who is an alcoholic.
psychological dependence on the been an alcoholic since she had 
It could be your husband or his
drug alcohol. He can't stop started drinking when she was parents, added Pluat.
drinking once he's started, even fifteen years old. She now works 
The Alcoholism Council, located 
though alcohol is destroying his with classes and group discussions 
at 104 S. Main St., South Bend, has 
life." at Memorial Hospital. 
information along with films,
Plaut went on to give some Those attending the seminar 
pamphlets and special programs
statistics in order to give the were invited to ask questions. The which deal with the disease. 
Take the Money and Run, last night's entry in the week-long Woody Allen Film Festival was packed for all three screenings. Tomorrow night's featurewill be Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Sex. (See story on page 6) 
Ou The Inside 
Right to Life ...pg 3 
North Quad Party ...pg 6 
Vol. IX No. 70 
by Stewart McGough Staff Reporter 
Barbara Mikulski, a Baltimore councilwoman and "spokesman for ethnic America," suggested the formation of a coalition to meet the needs of this country's citizens during remarks on her views of con­temporary America last night in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
"What the social and political forces in this country need in order to iron out the problems we are faced with is coalition," she said. "And there is an abundance of coalition issues. Health care, day care, crime, issues that can bring leaders from all sides together with mutual need. And from this need will come mutual respect." It is this respect, she went on to say, that constitutes the first barrier toward progress in any sort of social, coexistent framework. 
U.S. lacking good leadership 
Mikulski, in emphasizing this need for a program of coalition and fundamental change, stressed that America today is lacking in good leadership. "Any President who advocates WIN buttons and Victory gardens is not presenting the new ideas so important for this country. Too many Americans await the charismatic leader, a John Kennedy, a Martin Luther King. We need new social thinkers and new inventions." 
Stabilization of economy 
In a four-point economic stand for the future, Mikulski advocated first of all a stabilization of the economy, not only with the use of wage and price controls, but also profit controls. "I don't mind a profit of 15 or 16 per cent, but when the sugar com­anies show a 300 er cent increase in 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Thursday, Ja~ry 30, 1975 

Calls for coalition ofneed 
profits in one year, then something is definitely wrong somewhere." 
Through a fundamental change in the tax structure, she continued, the govern­menlt~an generate new revenue to be used 

'::,1 


LSKI, speaking at her press conference yesterday afternoon and at the Memorial Library Auditorium last night, elaborated upon some of the tough problems facing our nation. She expressed hope for the future, stressing however, that drastic chant• are In order. 
m various public ~-.,. 1t programs. "We are in need of public Investments, and not of the leaf-raking variety that im­mediately comes to mind when this kind of program is mentioned." 
Regulation of multi-national companies 
Finally, the government must regulate the multinational companies, "the com­panies that owe no allegiance to any country or any citizen, only to themselves and their welfare. If we cannot deal with multinational companies, then we cannot deal with our own economy." She con­tinued, "Any firm that can close up shop in this country, only to start up some 
sweatshop in Thailand, has got to be regula ted.'' 
Mikulski stressed that the most im­
portant need is one for coalition to solve 
the social and economic problems that this 
country faces. "Expecially in the near 
future, we are going to need understanding 
from all sides." 
Who should get laid off? 

"With the layoffs coming, there's a 
question as to who should get laid off. 
Should the blacks, the Chicanos, the 
women, all of which have only now been 
hired? Or should it be the blue collar 
whites, those with the more seniority? A 
solution has got to be found." 

A new kind of family In regard to the Women's Movement, Mikulski is "sick and tired of having the ERA <Equal Rights Amendment) equated with Eve giving Adam the apple." She added, "It is not anti-family. We're talking about a new kind of family, where both parents are seen as intelligent human beings." Bicentennial may be rip-off 
Finally, in reminding the audience of the upcoming Bicentennial Celebration, Mikulski expressed her fears by saying, "I'm afraid it's going to be a big rip-i>ff." In order to be meaningful, she added, the celebration must begin to tell the history of all Americans: men, women, blacks, Chicanos, Polish-Americans, every American. The final goal is to close the gap between real culture and the ideal culture. ''We must realize that govern­ment exists for us and not us for govern­ment." 


the observer Thursday, January 30, 1975 
warld briefs 
WASHINGTON <UPI> -A bomb exploded in the State Depart­ment early Wednesday, and thousands of government workers were evacuated from other federal buildings after telephoned threats. 
A radical organization called the Weather Underground took responsibility for the bomb explosion and placement of 14 sticks of dynamite taken from a military induction center at Oakland, Calif. 
CLEVELAND <UPI) -An apparently new and potentially dangerous nu virus has been isolated here, it was announced Wednesday.
Dr. Steven Mostow, director of the Influenza Laboratory at Cleveland Metropolitan General Hospital, said samples of the "A Cleveland 1-75" flu virus were sent to the World Health Organization influenza center at Atlanta after being isolated from 
four patients Tuesday. 

WASHINGTON <UPO -Rising unemployment has boosted the rolls of federal food stamp users to a record 17 million persons, sources said Wednesday. 
This would represent 8 per cent of the population -and the sources said even this estimate may prove low when the Agriculture Department releases its official report on December food stamp use. 

an campus taday 
3:30 p.m.--computer course, "how to Improve turnaround," 113 
comp. cen. 4 p.m.--colloquium, "self-control through behavioral change," dr. 
t. I. whitman, 119 hllggar hall. 

4:30 p.m.--nieuwland lecture series, "bacterial chemotaxis as an elementary sensory system," prof. s. koshland, 226comp. cen. 
s p.m.--vespers, evensong, log cl'lllpl\ 
6:30 p.m.--shore meeting, 15 holy cross, smc 
7:30 p.m.--lecture, preparatory transcendental meditation, lib. aud. 
8:0 .m.--recital, faculty organ recital, arthur lawrence, first meth. church, 201 e. third st., mishawaka. 
8 p.m.--lecture, "the Influence of medical factors on warfare," dr. 
b. norllng, lib. lounge 


Thurgood Marshal to head 
twenty·-fifth Moot panel 
Justice Thurgood Marshall of the U.S. Supreme Court will head a distinguished panel of jurists presiding during the 25th annual Moot Court competition of the University of Notre Dame's Law School. Final arguments at 8:00 
p.m. 1-,ebruary 1 in the Memorial Library Auditorium are open to the public. 
Joining Marshall, the first black member of the Supreme Court, will be Circuit Judge William E. Doyle of the Tenth Circuit Court of Ap­peals, Denver, and associate Justice Mary S. Coleman of the Michigan Supreme Court. 
Two teams of law students will argue a hypothetical case in­volving a black student filing damage suit against a formerly all black college where his ad­
mission was demed because of a 
quota program for whites at the 
newly integrated institution. 
Counsel for the petitioner will be Patrick J. Gibbs, Flint, Mich. (2751 Lakewood Dr.) and Robert C. Weaver, Coshocton, Ohio (52 Kensington), while counsel for the respondent are Brian P. Short, Minneapolis, Minn. (8 Merilane) and Michael J. Harvey, Green Bay, Wis, (1173 Colonial Ave.). All are third year students in Notre Dame's Law School. 
The Moot Court team, directed by Dr. Fernand N. Dutile, associate professor of law, placed among the top four team and won highest honors for their written brief during regional competition in f'hic11gn in November. 


Erratum 
. ·lichael Dongarra of the SMC C;11npus Ministry amended several statements he made in the Ob sl'rvl'r yesterday. Dongarra said that his comments were not meant to indicate that the SAGA food service begrudged the 50 cents per student that will be paid to the World Hunger Coalition for the rice and tea meal at the ACC on Sun­day. Since attendance at Sunday evening meals is generally poor. Dongarra explained, the food service simply wishes to be certain that the SMC students who volunteer to give up their SAGA m<'al will actually participate in lh(' rice and tea dinner. 



TONIGHT 
Dancing! ! ! 

THURSDAY NIGHT SPECIAL Hurricane $1.00 


Students volunteer lor CILA: participate in day care center 
by Fred Herbst Staf~ Reporter 

The Catholic International Lay Apostolate <CILA> a student volunteer group is currently running a day care center in South Bend. The group also runs summer programs in the U.S. and foreign countries. 
"CILA's main goal is to work for justice in the world by serving, learning, celebrating, sharing with one another and a multitude of people contacted through a variety of people," CILA Director of Community · Service Larry Schlereth explained yesterday. 
"CILA 's challenge is to discover how these experiences are related to the ongoing tradition of Christianity," he added. 
Last summer CILA ran programs in New Orleans, North Dakota, Mexico, Panama, St. Lucia and Appalachia. 
One of the foremost projects of CILA in this area this semester is the El Campi to Day Care Center. 
The children of the center are mostly the sons and daughters of migrant Mexican workers. While some of the sixty children are of other ethnic backgrounds, they are all from low income families. The children range in age from three months to six years and are from the southwest side of South Bend. 
Co-Coordinator of the El Cam­
pito project John McDonagh everything from changing diapers and playing the horse in Cowboys and Indians to instructing the older children in normal pre-school activities. The program is quite flexible. 
McDonagh cited the satisfaction the project brings stating "We feel that the major advantage of the ElCampito project, from both the children's and the students' point of view, is the large amount of consistent inter-personal contact. One deals with the children throughout the semester, and, hence has the opportunity to watch them develop week after week." 
Students participating in the program travel to and from the center by car. Normally the students spend about three hours a week at the center. 
McDonagh stressed "Over the course of the semester, one becomes quite attached to the kids and vice-versa. For this reason we tend to emphasize accountability and consistency in participation in the project. The kids are really disappointed if we promise to show up and don't. Anyone interested in the project should keep that in mind. 
Anyone feeling that they may be interested in the El Campito project for the present semester should call Byron Maltez at 283­3104 or John McDonagh at 283-1153. 
While the Day Care Center is one of CILA's major projects, McDonagh wished to note that, "One should remember that the El Campito project is only one of many activities which CILA sponsors. It is hoped that par­ticipation in the project will tend to involve interested people in CILA as a whole." 

described the center saying "A ,_,!;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:::;;;:::;;;:::;;;:::;;;:::;;;:::;;;:::;;;=;;;:::;;;:::;;;:::;;;:::;;;~ 
typical day at the center consists of 
Tax assistance programplmmed 
The Tax Assistance Program will conduct a program during which taped replays of the training sessions will be shown. 
The sessions, which will be held in the Law Building, are being held for the volunteers in the TAP. Participants are asked to attend one of the following replays: Friday, January 31, <Fed era! Tax Heturn at 2:00 pm, State Tax Heturn at 3:30 pm, room 101); Monday, February 3, <Federal at 3:00, State at 4:30, room 105); Thursday, February 13, <Federal at 3:00pm. State at 4:30pm, Room 110); Wednesday, February 19, <Ft>deral at 3:00pm, State at 4:30 pm. room 110)·. 
If anyone has any questions, they are asked to call Dr. Ken Milani at 1562 or Bill Sullivan at 289-6142. 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the studenfl of the University of Notre Dame Mel St. Mary's College. SubScriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester ($16 per year) trom The Observer Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana A6SS6. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
GUSTO CLUB 
Annual Gusto Club Executive Meeting 
Playboy Club of Chicago 
Friday Jan 31 6:00 p.m. 

B W d d B tt
0y On er On a man 




ATTENTION FACULT 
The Notre Dame Student Government would like to revive the "FREE UNIVERSITY" Program it had in past years. The "FREE UNIVER· SITY" is a program of courses taught by teachers and students to those in the University Community who are Interested In the courses offered. These courses can range from Auto Mechanics to Baseball, from Jazz to Rock, from Immunology to Taxes to Hemingway to ... 
Teachers and students are Invited to teach courses In areas that are of Interest to them. It may be purely academic or it may be just a per­sonal hobby. The teacher decides on all material, class size, format (Seminar, Lecture or both) and meeting schedule (whether you meet once a week, once a month, or just once a semester) All possibilities are open. 
The University Community Is Invited to attend these courses for their own personal enjoyment. There will be a registration. There Is no credit, no grades, etc. 
Anyone Interested In teaching a course or for more information call Ralph Pennino, Campus Life Commissioner at 6413. 
ALL SKI CLOTHING 


25% OFF 
SPECIAL PACKAGES AVAILABLE 




Thursday, January 30, 1975 the observer 
Right to Life goes to Washington 
by Brian M. Clancy said, "They told us it would take at politicians , they were also critical Staff Reporter least four years to reverse the New of those who refuse to take a stand. 
Last Wednesday, January 22, while the rest of the campus at­tended a mass celebrated for the intention that the right to life might be restored to the unborn and that all forms of life might be respected, 11 Notre Dame students, representing Notre Dame-St. Mary's Students for Life, accompanied by 90 members of the South Bend Right to Life chapter, traveled to Washington D.C. to participate in a protest march around the Capitol.
Local families sponsored the students, who were each asked to bring one pound of rice for the drought-stricken nations of Africa. 
This gesture was designed to show that the right to life movement is concerned with all human lives, not just those of the unborn, as many people think. The group left South Bend, Tuesday night and arrived at the Statler-Hilton, early Wednesday morning to attend a prayer-breakfast for life. At the breakfast, various pro-life politicians such as Senator James Buckley of New York, read ap­propriate scriptural passages, and folk singer, Barbara Bruer-Sipple, who appeared at Notre·Dame in 1973 and is scheduled for later this semester, entertained the group. 
Support from Bayh 
Immediately following the breakfast, the group marched up Capitol hill to the Senate office buildings, for audiences with Senators Birch Bayh and Vance Hartke, both of Indiana. The meeting with Senator Bayh was particularly important because he is the chairman of the Senate Judiciary sub-committee on Constitutional Amendments, the committee which must approve the amendment before it can be 
Following Hesburgh Mass 
Clark to speak on hunger 
The Anti-Hunger Day program, which is scheduled for Sunday, February 2, in the ACC, will in­clude a speech by Dick Clark, the Democratic Senator from Iowa. 
Clark. a native Iowan, is a member of the Democratic Steering Committee, the Senate Agriculture and Foreign Relations Committees, and the Committee on Small Business. He is also chairman of the subcommittees on Hural Development. 
Clemency board 
extension seen 
WASHINGTON <UPl) President Ford was expected Thursday to extend the life of the Vietnam era clemency board a month beyond its scheduled expiration at mid­night Friday. 
Press Secretary Ron Nessen said only that Ford probably would make his decision known Thursday regarding the fate of the special clemency board, which considers amnesty for those convicted of draft evasion or military desertion during the Vietnam war era. 
Other officials, however, in­
dicated the President had 
chosen to extend the board's 
life because of a surge in 
applications in recent weeks. 
Goodell and other board 
members have urged the 
President to extend the panel's 
life because many eligible men 
are only now finding out about 
the program. Under the pro­
gram, applicants can be given 
outright pardons by the Presi­
dent or conditional pardons 
after serving a maximum of 24 
months in public service work. 
About 100,000 men have been 
eligible. Officials said only 
about 850 men applied from 
Sept. 16, the program's starting 
date, through Jan. 6, but over 
3,000 had applied in the last 
three weeks. 


Observer lnsir:~ht 
put to a vote. Senator Bayh stated that he himself considered abor­tion to be the taking of a human life, but that he would first weigh the legal implications of such an amendment before voting on it. 
At the meeting with Senator Hartke, he stated that he would vote pro-life on the amendment, as he has done in the past. 
Letter to senators 
During each meeting, Joe Tatman representing the Notre Dame group, read the following message to the senators. 
"Dear Senator, 
Two years ago today, in what was the most tragic decision ever handed down in history, the United States Supreme Court took away all legal protection for unborn children, allowing social con­venience precedence over the right to life. 
Today, we students, represen­ting thousands of students from the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College, join here with thousands of fellow Americans from all over the country in protesting this most unfortunate decision. 
We are grieved at the fact that in the past two years, 3,000,006 children have been denied the right to be born. 
Again, we join with millions and millions of fellow citizens in urging you to sign a Human Life Amend­ment which would restore the God­given right to life to all unborn children. 
We thank you for your time and ask God's blessing on you. 
Clark, who was elected to the 
U.S. Senate in 1972, is a graduate of Upper Iowa University and holds a master's degree in history from the University of Iowa. 
During the Korean war, he served in Germany with an in­telligence unit. 
Clark began his career as an educator, teaching high school English and then history at the University of Iowa. From 1959 to 1964, he was assistant professor of history and political science at Upper Iowa University, serving as president of the faculty in 1962. 
He first became active in politics in 1962, when Harold Hughes, now Iowa's senior senator, first ran for governor. In 1965, he joined the 
· staff of Congressman John Culver as administrative assistant, after managing Culver's first campaign for office. In 1968, he was a national organizer for the late Senator Robert Kennedy's presidential campaign. 
Clark, who is a leading 
LOOKING FOR ... HOBBY & CRAFT SUPPLIES? 
"" ENGINEERING PROJECTS -tc ARKIE & ART ASSIGNMENTS *MODEL TRAINS, CARS & PLANES 
we carry 
XACTO, DRE MEL, ROCKETS, LIONEL & N GAUGE FULL I.JNE OF PLASTIC KITS & BALSA WOOD 
HOURS: MWF 9:30-7:30 T Th S 9:30-5:30 

343 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
SOUTH BEND 

3 BLOCKS WEST OF LASALLE 
PHONE 287-0180
HOTEL> 
proponent of the hunger issue in Congress, will give a short speech after the Mass which Father Hesburgh is celebrating on Sun­day. Following his speech, Clark will answer questions. A rice and tea meal will then be served from the concession stands in the ACC. 

Yours for life, Notre Dame-St. Mary's Students for Life" Amendment proposed 
A popular criticism of the right to life movement has been that its leaders do not all agree on exactly how the right to life amend­ment: should be worded, as wit­nessed by the differing amend­ments that have been previously introduced. In an effort to rectify this situation, Mrs. Mary Hunt, presidentof Indiana Right to Life, presented 'Senator Bayh and Senator Harke with a copy of the amendment that they would like to see introduced by either of the senators. Following these meetings, the group visited Congressman John Brademas, of this district, who in the past has voted pro-abortion on several occasions. 
At one o'clock, the rally com­menced in the rear of the Capitol building. Guest speakers, in­cluding prominent politicians, religious leaders, and concerned citizens, addressed the crowd, estimated by police at ap­proximately fifth thousand. 
Donovan speaks 
One speaker at the rally was 
. Congressman James Donovan of New York, who was introduced as, "the man who drove Rockefeller out of New York". Congressman Donovan led the fight in New York which resulted in the reversal of the State's abortion laws, a reversal which was negated by the Supreme Court's decision. He 

York decision and we did it in only One speaker noted, "They say that two years. They've told us that ,silence is gold, well their silence 
we'll never reverse this one, but we isri't golden, it's yellow."know better." When all the speakers finished, While most speakers were the crowd began its-march around 
critical of the pro-abortion , the
wrr·· 

RIGHT TO LIFE PROTEST: Jan. 22,1975, Wash., D.C. 
THURSDAY PITCHER BEER NITE 
TONIGHT "BRUCE CARR" 
WHITE HOUSE INN 


NO COVER

2839 N. 5th 
Just 8 mi. north of the stat(, line. 683-9842 
Where Did The u Go? X=Fx+Gw 
A fundamental breakthrough -not really! It's just that we wrote a book using this notation (Applied Optimal Estimation, published by MIT Press. Spring '741. The title of the book tells a lot about TASC. Our interest is in apply­ing the modern systems viewpoint that you have learned. 
Since TASC was founded in 1966, our staff of graduate engi­neers, scientists, data processing specialists and support personnel has grown to more than 140. In addition to having authored several technical books and numerous reports, papers, and articles, our staff members hold patents in bio­medical instrumentation, meteorological sensing, control sys­tem design, and inertial navigation technology. Our work in­volves analytical research related to mathematical modeling of physical processes, optimal state estimation and optimal con­trol, adaptive estimation and control, multisensor system syn­thesis, system identification, system optimization, system test and evaluation techniques, advanced simulation techniques and advanced systems concepts. 
We are a steadily growing applied research firm that enjoys professional expression by solving real systems problems in navigation, guidance and control in defense, space and public systems applications. 
Positions are available for innovative applications -oriented Masters and Doctorate level engineers who have a working knowledge of modern estimation and control theory. 
TASC is conveniently located 10 miles north of Boston. Our benefits include profit-sharing, tuition reimburse­ment. disability income insurance. in-house technical seminars and paid relocation. U.S. Citizenship required. 
TASC Call Collect 617·944·6850 








THE OBSERVER 
A"' INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
EDITORIALS:  283-8661  NEWS:  283-1715  BU SINESS:  283-7471  
Fred Graver  Tom Drape  Terry Keeney  
Editorial Editor  t=ditor-in-Chief  News Editor  
Bob McManus  Bob Zogas  
Advertising Manaaer  Busi ness Manager  

Thursday, January 30, 1975 
Student Life Council: Strong Medicine 
Student Body President Pat McLaughlin came to Monday's SLC meeting like a country doctor with medicine too strong for his ailing patient. Yet, hopefully, his drastic attempts to play doctor to the SCL will convince his patient that he is really sick. 
McLaughlin's proposal to either grant the SLC the power to override the veto of the University President or reduce SLC membership from 24 to six are unrealistic and hastily drawn. To reduce the membership, especially of student representatives, would reduce the ef­fective student voice on a body which,has, until now, seen little student initiative. To give the SLC the power to override the president would point out the futility of the SLC -the proposal itself would certainly be vetoed. 
Members of the SLC have dismissed McLaughlin's proposals as "shock treatment", attributing them to student frustration over failure to pass the sexuality code last semester over Fr. Hesburgh's veto. These proposals, though unrealistic, cannot be treated with mere rhetoric. They point directly to the key question: What is the role of the SLC in this university? 
Has the SLC been reduced to a mere 
sounding-board for views of faculty, 
students and administrators? The 
episode of the sexuality code points out 
the power Fr. Hesburgh has usurped 
from the SLC. Fr. Hesburgh, vetoed the 
original revision in the sex code in April 
last year, then sent the matter back to the 
SLC for re-consideration. After an entire 
semester of debate the board has been 
unable to agree on a rule that Hesburgh 
would approve. 
The Student Life Council was founded as an advisory board of students, faculty and administrators in the late Sixties. Founded in an era of student unrest, the SLC has demonstrated responsibility in many areas of decision-making. It has become a tripartite board which represents the keytoconstituencies of this University --students, faculty and ad­ministration. 
These constituencies can no longer be ignored. The structure of the SLC must now be changed to measure the changing times and to provide meaning to a body rapidly losing its purpose. 
The solutions lie not in McLaughlin's remedies, but in realistic solutions that can meet the support of all parts of the community. 
McLaughlin has pointed out the necessity of giving the SLC some recourse after a presidential veto. Rather than give the SLC absolute power to override the veto a system of University referendum could be in­stituted. Every measure that passes the SLC, but is vetoed should be submitted to the entire constituency of the SLC --all students, faculty and administrators ­before being brought before the final judgment of the University Trustees. 
The SLC could also be entrusted with some absolute power in some areas. The realm of SLC responsibility covers all of Student Life. Certainly the SLC aan be given effective final power over certain defined areas. 
Without some positive step to increase the real power of the SLC, the health of that body is in serious danger. 
Terry Keeney 


Twisted Rules 
As a result of administration refusals to substantiate their removal, seven Flanner hall residents are now living off­campus. They were never formally charged with violating any university or hall policies but only"asked to leave". In addition, their case was denied con­sideration within university or hall disciplinary channels and left unex­plained by Flanner rector, Fr. John Mulcahy, for fear of "hurting someone". 
The impact of this incident goes beyond the injustice that has been afforded to these students. As in the Lewis Hall case involving parietals and the Dillon Hall case involving drugs, an ugly precedent has been established. A precedent that, in this case, has only been explained by a whimsical ruling of one rector and un­substantiated by any violation of university rules. 
Thus far, faint references have been made to a university rule governing room changes as the basis of Flanner rector Fr. John Mulcahy's decision to expel the seven from the campus. The room change rule states, in part, that "the University reserves the right, as stated in the housing contract, to make changes in room assignments when deemed ad­visable." 
First of all, when was the last time any student even glimpsed a housing con­tract? Besides this catch-all clause, the contract also contains a no-knock clause allowing rectors entry into any room at any time for any reason. "Changes in room assignments when deemed ad­visable" is equally _as vaeue. 
These twisted rules should not go un­
challenged. Flanner stu For while these dents have only  seven been  
superficially  scarred,  the  next  seven  

accused may not be as fortunate. If violations occur let the rector publicly enumerate those charges either to the Dean of Students or the hall's judicial staff rather than hiding behind cheap, shallow clauses. 
An investigation should be launched immediately by both Student Affairs and Student Government to determine both the extent of application of the room change rule and the legality of the present housing contract. All oc­currences of double-dealing or black­mailing tactics by any member of hall staffs must be brought to the attention of the entire university community. 
Then, perhaps, at that juncture honest disciplinary procedures may be deter­mined to govern not only students but their rectors and hall staffs. Tom Drape 

Who's Sri Now? 
j. amant:ea 
Mercifully, it is not often that I am asked to write a column for 
the Observer. The following appears only at the request of my 
friend, whose column space this rightfully is. The circumstances 
that prompted him to ask me are interesting. It seems that one day 
I caught him at his desk under a flood of second-rate college 
publications, and lovelorn correspondences. The rigorous work, the 
responsibilities of being a spiritual adviser, and the cruel insistence 
of deadlines were beginning to tell on him. His normally rubbery, 
animated face was reduced to a gray, fleshy mass. His energetic 
body was withering under his natty bowler, three-piece suit, and 
two-tone shoes. Somehow his nose and ears seemed larger. He had 
just finished quite a bit of work, but the task that remained before 
him was enormous. It was elephantine, and he was beat. Plainly, 
life had not been kind to my colleague, Babar the Elephant. 
"See here, Babar", I said, "you really ought to slow down." 
He slowly shook his trunk in agreement. "I must be nuts," he 
replied. 

"Tusk, tusk," I chortled, "is that any kind of attitude to have?" 
He answered me with a playful burst of water from his snout. 
"You know, I'm used to reading about the troubles of students, 
scoundrels, and pornographers, but of anything I've ever received 
this one takes the prize." He flipped me a letter. "Can you imagine 
the gall of an Indian Spiritual master who is asking me for his 
advice so that he can tell me what to do? In my own column space 
yet? If I had anything left in me I would write a column about it. 
But, I have too much work to do in my satire class." (a prestigious 
and, I have it on good authority, dazzling course offered by the 
English Dept.) 
Hint hint. 

The letter was typed by someone with an obviously careful and 
meditative hand. The return address read "Sri Chinmoy An­
swering Service -Comedy Correspondence School. We Do Wheel 
Alignments. Dial800 KRI-8HNA. Toll Free-." A legitimate enough 
operation. Inside the envelope were four pages of letters from 
neophytes and General Progarm majors desperately inquiring 
about the true meaning of life and the realization of God. 
The reader should understand that it would be criminal of me to 
misconstrue anything that the Sri answered to his faithful, 
questioning followers. Rather than give you my useless im­
pressions, I shall humbly offer you a sampling of some of the more 
profound and thought-provoking morsels that were included in the 
letter. 
Sri, how does God speak to us? 

Whenever I am asked thisquestion,I am tempted to respond with "What do you mean?" This is merely because that young people do not understand that God speaks to us in a voice that is radically different from anything that we know of as a voice. It is im­possible to count the number of adepts who have been lost in the hope of hearing a deep masculine voice in the middle of the night saying: "Here's looking at you kid." Or, "Kill me a son." Or, "Won't you be surprised!" The voice of God is an instrument. Is this instrument the song of a bird, or the epiphantic singing of angels, or the metallic grate of a dying water pump on a 1966 Bonneville? No. It is an Emmon.ten string pedal steel guitar. God speaks to us most clearly on the Deja Vu album under the pliant hands of Jerry Garcia. 
Sri, please understand that I was raised in the pastures for most of my life and had the following harrowing experience whose hidden meaning yet remains a mystery to me. Upon journeying to the city I was fallen upon by the most wondrous and fragrant and beautiful of women who importuned me: "Would you like a roll? Twenty dollars." She asked me thus three times in succession. Sri, what is a roll? 
Twenty dollars. Same as in the city. 

Sri, I find that I am lately living at dangerous speeds. Any at­tempt on my part to put a brake on such intense and consuming activities results in my head feeling as though it is being pulled to the left direction or the right direction. What can possible be wrong with me and my thought processes? 
The dizziness that you obviously feel in your head is the result of an inadequate or improper diet. When this direction phenomenon occurs, it is necessary to eat nothing but milk curd and cream until the dizziness is curbed. This diet, called tyre, should balance your psychic wheels, and soon, your newly aligned life will be rolling in the direction of fulfillment and unity with the forces of the universe. You must Jearn then that Sri guarantees free wheel balancing and alignment with every new set of tyres. Brake adjustments not included. 
Sri, I negated a pagan religion and exerted every fiber of my 
being to the pursuit of divine, eternal life through simple divine 
medititation. My body is pure. My thoughts are directed entirely to 
God. I have faithfully followed your teaching, avoided bawdy 
houses, and have now won spiritual oneness with Him. All my life 
has been lived for this reward of an eternal, ecstatic, spiritual 
lifetime. I have realized the true nature of existence, of the world, 
of the most Almighty One. What must I do now? 
You might try dying. 

Sri, I am aware that my spiritual master has realized the Divine Radiance of God's Being. If I may humbly ask: when did you first experience the beauty and mystery of Him. 
It was many years ago, in the second decade of this century. I was still a young adept and found myself in Italy. It was in a small fishing village overlooking the sea when this event occurred. I was standing on the shore pondering the profound mystery and beauty of the sea when I felt an unnatural sensation overwhelm me. I looked to my right, and there was the Divine One, standing nest to me in the form of a withered old fisherman. The air about me was resonating and I was speechless. I wildy turned my head around and saw in the sea, a German submarine. Feeling an insand need to break the silence I trembled: "God, is that a U-boat?" He turned to me, I could read the divine strength in his eyes, and said; "No, my son. That's not a my-boat." 
The judgment is left to the wisdom of the reader. I could not believe the untruths and fairy tales found in this letter from this supposedly spiritual master. But the reader should not take my word for it, let him read this perfidious exchange and decide for himself. Can he or she actually believe such a fraudulent, irreverent, insulting comedy? Can any student be expected to tolerate such overblown dross and mumbo jumbo let alone read it? I, for one, do not. You may rest tonight safe in the knowledge that I will make Babar understand that nothing but lucid, informative, and entertaining articles must grace this column space in respectful service to you fellow student and reader. That is, if I can ever drag him away from Celeste. 


Thursday, January 30, 1975 the observer 
5 


North Quad 
Boogie 
Dear Editor: 
To My Fellow North Quadians, I am looking forward to the norm quad dance on Saturday. It ap­pears to be the opportune time to alleviate the "loneliness" that so many students complain exists here. For once, the people that eat together can join together and have a good time without the trays of "hockey pucks" and "fried 
rubber bands" between them. 
Many of us complain about the lack of social life, the weekends in front of the tube, and the "pimpy" dating situation. These conditions exist mainly because com­munications are stilted and for­mal. How well can we understand the feelings of a plastic person that we watch from behind our own plasticity--and, perhaps, more importantly, how can they un­derstand our feelings? Real human communications result from daily living, from talking, and from physical proximity, not from overnight flings, bussed-in­visitors, or classroom eyeballing. 
People say "Hell, that's no fun." 
Then again, think of the people 
with whom you have the very best 
times. I'm willing to bet they're the 
people you share with again and 
again. 
The dance is a real opportunity 
to develop some pride and spirit on 
north quad and to just plain have a 
wildly fine time. I hope all north 
quad residents will attend. 
Sincerely, Mary C. Hinner 
R.A. Farley Hall 

Big Bucks ... 

For What? 
Dear Editor: 
This fall, the student govern­
ment board of commissioners, of 
which I am a member, allocated, 
much to my dismay, ap­
proximately $11,000 to the 
Sophomore Literary Festival. 
After reading the list of authors 
scheduled, I feel that again it is not 
worth the money. 
I'm sure that popular and well­
known authors are hard to come 
by, and I'm sure that with the 
DOONESBURY 
GOOf) fl/liN/N6. WAY 7Hii PRES/PENT Or 7HE 1/NITW STAT&S IS aJrOF IMJRk. CUT­
BACKS IN WASTfiFIJL-. FEfJfi?AL SP&Nf}fN6 IJ/AS OTflJ A5 THE 
PRIME R£ASON. BOB SCHIVF&R l?fPOKJ5. 
7 
TIE!?£ IS NO OfROAL 
/liJI?f) YET 115 70 HP... fOR/J'S f'tAN5, BUT C/JS N&IUS ~ LEMNW 7HIIT TOP MilT& H~ II/PES ARE ENCOIJ/?A6/Af3 7J.IE Pl?£5/f)ENT 7() TAK£ 7HE 
OP!W.7l/NITY 70 60 ~--=='-­!' 8/IO<. m COU.a£. \ 
• • seriausly! falks • 
• • Forget the Alamo! 
•
•

money available and the expensi\:e art buchwald
framework of a weeklong festival, 
the committee has done an ex­• Last week it was reported in the "It's too frivolous. My daughter is a very newspapers that a Saudi Arabian serious person. Could you tell me how much
cellent job. However, I'm 
questioning whether or not th1e sheik made an offer to buy the Alamo, they're asking for St. Patrick's Cathedral?"
•

festival is worth 13 percent of all Texas' most revered shrine. It seems Sheik "Not offhand, but I'll call the cardinal this Al-Aharis Al-Hamdan contracted a Houston afternoon and see if he'll accept an offer.
student government money 
available. lawyer; told him his son had been in San You wouldn't consider the Metropolitan It is common knowledge that in ••• 
Antonio and had been taken with the beauty Museum of Art as an alternate would you?" the past the festival has been of the famed Texas fort and, since he loved "Sileik Al Rumallah gave his daughter an replete with expensive dinners, his son very much, he wanted to buy it for art museum last month. I want to do
• 

him. something better for my child, who is twice
cocktail hours and parties whereby 
some professors repay their social • The attorney immediately contacted Gov. as oeautiful." obligations. I've been told that this Dolph Briscoe and was informed the Alamo "I gotcha'. You want something tasteful won't happen again, but if it does I • was not for sale. This came as a surprise, but different than the run-i>f-the-mill sheik hope that these parties will be open since this is the first time since the oil crisis wedding present. I'll tell you what's really to any student who wishes to at­• that anyone in the United States has refused nice--the Supreme Court Building in tend, since it is their money that to sell something to an Arab sheik. Washington." pays for them. • But I'm sure there will be other calls from "No, I believe that is more for a boy. I 
the Middle East concerning our want something that has a little romance to
The whole structure of a weeklong festival is wasteful and monuments. it."
• "There's always the Grand Canyon."only benefit a minority from the of great students amount really of •• looking "This is Sheik Abdullah Ben Doom. for a small wedding gift for I am my "I think that's a little showy." ­money spent. It is true that the • daughter. What would you suggest?" "What about Princeton University?" festival is very educational and a •• "Wal, Sheik, how about a priceless "Hmnn. That's not a bad idea. But I'll be 
diamond necklace and tiara'!" honest with you. If I'm going to buy her a
public relations builder for the 
•

University, but to my knowledge "I had something a little more sen­school, I'd rather buy her Oxford. It has a not one penny of the cost is borne • more antique feeling to it."
timental in mind. When my daughter was a schoolgirl she visited the Mormon Taber­"I don't want to knock the British, but Iby either the Administration or the 
English department. If this is true • nacle in Salt Lake City." hear Oxford is really run-down. She would in the future then the Sophomore • "Yes?" have to spend a lot of her own money fixing Literary Festival should be • "I would like to buy it for her." it up. With Princeton the upkeep is cheaper abolished. Rather than get 8 or 9 •• "I'll check it out for you, Sheik-~me and she can move right in tomorrow." 
Mormon Tabernacle. Let me ask you this. "I am not interested in bargains. This is
unknowns and have them stay and 
party for a week, wouldn't it be If for some reason it's not for sale could you my eldest daughter and price is no object." better to get more expensive but give me a second choice?" "Of course. Well, I think I have a good more popular authors and have "She also said she liked Yosemite idea of the ball park we're talking about. I'll 
National Park." make a few calls and get back to you."
them come once or twice a sem­
•

sester'! Possible students would • "Right. If I can't get Yosemite, do you "Thank you. By the way, what news do even opt for a free outdoor concert think she'd take the Yellowstone National you have about my offer to buy Grant's in the spring. $11,000 is a lot of • Park instead?" Tomb for my grandson?" 
"My daughter didn't say anything about "I'm working on it, Sheik, I'm working onmoney and in the future it could 
surely be used in a way more Yellowstone. Ithas no sentimental value for it." students would approve of. •• her." 
"What about Las Vegas, Sheik? It would Sincerely, •• 

be kind of fun when she cuts open the Brian Hegarty : weddinl! cake to find the deed inside." 
,•...................................................•................ _ _:t:...=.h.:..::e~o~b~s~e~r~v~e.!.__r__ i 
~!~~~~ Editor Editor • Thomas : aUtr ider 
Ass't Night Editor -Danny San-: chez : Layout -Bob Varettoni, Maureen • Sajbel, Martha Fanning : Copy Reader -Ken "Gator" • 


Ziegler in Concert 
Girouard : Day Editor-Val Zurblis, Maureen • Flynn : Editorials -Fred Graver • 

'darry wills 
Sports -Pete McHugh : Typists-Nell VIII, Barb Norcross, • Jim Landis, Tom Modglin, Janet : Ron Ziegler was a Nixon soul mate. And Ziegler did two things when he gave his Carney, Rick Huber • no wonder. Like Nixon, he enjoyed kicking first public performance-he conveyed the Compugraphic Operator -Bob : others when he was in power. Nixon, you reek of Nixon's resentment, and drummed Steinmetz • will remember, gloated publicly that he up business for himself. Ron, you see, is Picture Screener -AI : had, as Vice President, been able to kick a about to hit the lecture trail-a waxen figure Night Controller • M.J. Foley • demonstrator in Latin America while Secret out of Woodward's and Bernstein's horror
• Service agents held the man. In the same museum. Seedy inoperative operator in a way, Ziegler not only -cut off newsmen (I mendacity concerto, with double-talk ob­may have been ·the first, in the 1968 cam­bligato. 
by Garry Trudeau paign), but liked to rub it in whenever he Why on earth are colleges spending their saw them again. students' money (at $2500 a throw) to be lied
•

• I would gladly forget Ron Ziegler and all to'! They cannot really think Ron Ziegler
IIJIEN IIJ(f'ffIIJ/5& ~­
his ways, but the man will not let me. He has any wisdom to impart. One of the
MAN RON NESSEN /?EAf) THE •
• recently pressured Gerald Ford into grislier jokes of Nixon's last days was the
NEII/5 70 A STUNNE/J PRESS 
another gift for Richard Nixon-another of fact that the Emperor of the West was
CORPS TOM't HAR/JENE/), • 
those generosities surrounding and pur­spending long hours trying to impress the
VE'ffi?AN ~OPENLY 
/1/EPT... NESSEN HIMSElf •• suant to the pardon. Ziegler "went public" nearest Mean Kid. Nixon was not totally in IJ/A5 91AK!N6 50 9Af)lY • to complain that Richard Nixon was being control by then--but why imitate him in
• charged for half of his plane flight into granting audiences to this pubescent
HIS CIGARETTE • 
WENTOIJT. "exile." Ziegler asked what Nixon was scholar? 
r •• supposed to do--get off the plane, halfway John Dean admits to some uneasiness home? No, but he could have driven home about all that cash rolling in to him and his like Eisenhower, or taken a commercial machicolated wife. Does crime pay after plane like Truman. But he had not left, like all? But at least Dean told the truth about
• them, in honor? All the more reason to deny his crime, and went to jail for it--this though
•

• 
him that grandiose emperor's chariot he tbe Nixon team had decided to "destroy"

• 
had made so expensive during his reign. He him when he started telling the truth. It


• 

should be happy to settle for half fare. seems odd to reward those who try to cover
• But Ziegler is always on the offensive. up the crime even more than those who
• 

Take that reference to "exile." Who exiled revealed it.
• Nixon? People clamor to get to him. He Spiro Agnew is said to be making money
• 

could make millions on the lecture circuit­by the fistsful-which is all he ever wan­HE IS • but he is ill and seeks repose. Then why call tedanyway. I can't resent the fact that aEXPKT&/J • his isolation, earnestly desired by him and plain old crook is cleaning up.
TO MITrlOR. 
• still paid for by our taxes, an "exile"? .Charles Colson will no doubt leave prison
IN FRENCH. 
• Ziegler complained that friends have with a heavenly mandate to rake it in. Let
• turned on Nixon--i>n the man who betrayed him. Anybody who talked that babes-in­r • so many friends. The man whose tapes arms goo deserves a compensatory fee.
• 
showed him setting up ~ohn Mitchell for a But Ron Ziegler? The only reason I can 

shove into the lion's piC This man does not think of for calling him on to a platform is to

• 
deserve friends. Nonetheless, he has gaze at a freak-and that demeans the


•

• 
friends, including those who paid off his audience. He is long past embarrassment half-million dollar mortgage. And Frank himself, as all of Nixon's friends must be·

• 
Sinatra helicopters ·in for a chat. And but how can college students look their date~ Elizabeth Taylor. Big exile. Only one of his in the face at a shameful attendance on this two palaces is paid up. Can you hold back kind of freak show?


•
• the tears? 


6 the observer Thursday, January 30, 1975 
Chmged with engendering support 


Parseghian maywork with Development Fund 
by Virginia McGowan Staff Reporter 
Ara Parseghian has not yet finalized plans to work with the University Development Fund, according to Brian Regan, director of Development. 
"He's the kind of man who will be happy to help in any way for the development of Notre Dame," said Regan. "However, I really don't know what his plans are with our office. 
''It's a matter of sitting down and working things out. As far as I know, he's still completing his personal affairs," he stated. 
Parseghian has previously spoken for Universal Notre Dame nights, and last year wrote a letter of appeal for the Development Fund. 
The Development Fund, headed by Regan, is responsible for amassing 11 percent of the university's operating budget, through contributions. Last year's campaign resulted in a total of $7,112,308.32 for the university. 
"We raise money in three ways," explained Regan. "We rely on personal calls, telephone calls, and the direct mail system." 
Five constituencies are con­tacted: alummi, "friends" (any person who didn't go to Notre Dame but wishes they had), foundations <such as Kresge or Ford), corporations and parents. 
Last year a record 58.9 percent of the alumni donated a total of $3,339,046.92. The national average for contributing alumni is 17.8 percent. 
"This fact is important when corporations ask how our own people support us," Regan com­mented. "That 58.9 percent is upfrom a 49.8 percent of the previous year, which is a 9.1 percent in­crease in alumni gifts." 
Regan noted that the Kresge foundation gave $750,000 to build a new wing of the Law School this past year. Total contributions of non-alumni came to $3, 773,261.40. 
According to Regan, the Development fund is operated out of four regional offices with the central office headquartered at Notre Dame. 
An office in New York covers Connecticut, New York City and New Jersey. The Chicago branch spans the Midwest. Two offices in South Bend field the Northeastern United States, and the Indiana and 
Michigan region. 

-Woody Allen filiDS draw large Engineering Auditoriu1n crowds 
"Play It Again, Sam" filled the 
by Maurie Miller auditorium for each of two 
Staff Reporter showings, and "Bananas" was so 
popular that three showings were 
Large crowds filled the necessitated. "The auditorium Engineering Auditorium Monday was filled by 7 o'clock for the first and Wednesday nights to see films showing, so scheduled times were in the Woody Allen Film Festival moved up in order to have three which continues Firday night with shows." Even the unscheduled "Everything You Always Wanted 11 : 30 p.m. show was sold out. to Know about Sex." The festival Friday's "Everything You is being presented by the Student Always Wanted to Know about Union Cultural Arts Commission. Sex", is expected to match or 
"The only really big problem," exceed crowds for the earlier two according to Cultural Arts Com­movies, and showings are missionc.;r Mike Mroz, "is the scheduled for 7:30, 9:30 and 11:30 underestimation of crowds. We p.m. There is even a possibility for had intended to have two shows a a later showing if "there is a night, but are now showing three demand and enough people come," each evening." Mroz commented. 
Monday night's showing of "Sleeper" concludes the week-
North Quad dorms sponsor free party in Dining Hall 
by Frt>d llerbst Staff Rt>porter 
The North Quad dorms will sponsor a party to be held in the North Dining Hall this Saturday Pvening, February I, from '9 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
The party is open to everyone. North Quad residents will be ad­mitted free of charge by presen­tmg their meal cards, while everyone else attending will be charged a dollar. 
Contrary to what appeared in an article in Wednesday's Observer, St. Ed's and Cavanaugh Halls are considered North Quad dorms and will be admitted free. However, since these two halls eat at the South Dinnig Hall, arrangements for admittance to the party other than presentation of meal cards will be made. 
Those attending the party should t•nter the North Dining Hall through the C-D line. 
Entertainment will be provided by ~.<:den Hock, a rock group from Chicago. Frank McGuire, 
Nominations due 
for Senior Fellow 
Nominations for Senior Class Fellow are due Friday in the Senior Class Office or at the Senior Club, Senior Class President Greg Ericksen stated yesterday. 
Nominating petitions should include the name of the nominee , the name of the person sponsoring the nomination and the signatures of 25 seniors. 
"We hope to get a good number 
of nominees so we can have a wide 
selection for the preliminary 
vote," Ericksen said. 
Ericksen stated the preliminary 
vote will be held in a few weeks and 
the final tally will take place as 
soon as possible. He added that a 
special election system is being 
planned to make voting convenient 
for off-campus seniors. 
public-ity and entertainment chairman, said that the group comes to Notre Dame "highly recommended." Refreshments will also be available at the party. 
McGuire said, "This party is another attempt to improve social conditions on campus and we hope that it will be well received and add another dimension to Mardi Gras." 
long affair with three shows 
Saturday night. 
Funds from the festival wiH be 
added to the Student Governmnet 
Fund and, according to Mroz, will 
help defer costs of the Sophomore 
Literary Festival. 
IIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRiftllliiUIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIII


Scrin exnulSiOnS 
'Z" (continued from pg 1) 
alcohol rules. 
As a penalty for that infraction, they had to arrange a "con­structive" event for the dorm, Delehanty explained. So they organized with Holy Cross Hall a party at the Hiedelberg Inn in Niles, Michigan. He believed that this type of event was most "constructive" for hall life. 
Delehanty and his friends realize that one more violation means their expulsion from the dorm. 
The four students were 
questioned by the hall staff as to 
whether they really wanted to live 
there in the dorm, especially after 
committing a second offense. 
Delehanty commented that despite 
what happened, "we have no bad 
feelings toward certain RA's." 
When asked how he felt his 
punishment compared to the 
chastisement of last year's "Sorin 
Four", Delehanty stated that "our 
punishment is unique but not as 
severe as the 'Sorin Four' " 


Friday Night 71 91 11 pm 
The Los Angeles office having been recently closed, the western United States are now covered byRegan. 

"Our charge is to engender support for the university," stressed Regan. "We tell people to look at the leadership of this university and the moral dimen­sion that makes Notre Dame unique." 
Each regional director travels from 22 to 26 weeks of the year calling upon prospective donors. "We ask for gifts through wills and bequests, trusts, insurance programs, current gifts of cash or cash deferred to a later time," said Regan. 
Efforts  are  concentrated  on  29  
selected  cities  each  year.  
Although  November  is  "Annual  

' Fund Month," the program is carried out year-long in con­junction with the director of the Annual Fund, Fr. Bob Rioux, and the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
The Annual Fund was created at the finish of three successive campaigns. "Challenge I" ran from 1960 to 1963. "Challenge II" followed from 1963 to 1966. In 1967 SUMMA was activited and lasted until 1972. 
"We are the only university to attempt three back-to-back campaigns," Regan declared. "In that period of time we ac­cumulated $100 million." 
Current and continuing response to the 1974 Annual Fund, according to Regan, is "overwhelmingly successful." 
..----------------------------. 





NICKlE'S 
NOW FEATURING 

POUND CHARCOAL-GRILLED 
HAMBURGERS 
Serving from 11 :30 a.m. daily 
Due to the overwhelming response to the Woody Allen 
Film Festival the Cultural Arts Commission has altered 
the remaining schedule to accomodate an extra show 
each ni ht 

A LOVE STORY ABOUT 
TWO PEOPLE WHO HATE 
EACH OTHER 



200 YEARS IN THE FUTURE 
~o~ C:Oiatte cAllertand ~aton 
'~le~ec" 
Umfed Arf1sfs 

Saturday Night 71 91 11 pm 
All shows in Engineering Auditorium, Admission to each film is One Dollar 
• 

Thursday, January 30, 1975 the observer 
7 

'Theresa club lor everything eke' 
Stanford resident forms ND Sports Car Club 
resident Dan Cofall, president of reason, "it didn;t fare too well." race is hefd," he stated. "In ad­O'L~ary and he all own Porsches.
by Jeff Pecore the newly-formed Notre Dame The president of the recently dition, we're planning on inviting Cofall has owned three ·Porsches Staff Reporter 
Sports Car Club because he ob­formed club also outlined some of guest lecturers from the Sports himself in the last four years.served that "there was already a the plans he has for the club and Car Club of America and the
"Basically, we just want a club "I've seen about 15 to 20 Por­
club for practically every other activities he would like to see it Porsche Club of America. Of
where anyone with an interest in sches around campus and several 
sports cars at all can become in­sport." "I consider sports car sponsor. course, our ultimate goal would be Triumphs and MG's, so I feel there volved and cultivate this interest. racing a sport," Cofall said. "I "First of all, we would like to to have a race right here on is already an interest in sports cars 
think that there are probably a lot handle the car rally held every campus involving club members," at ND," Cofall stated.
We don't want people to get the 
of other guys and girls who would year during An Tostal weekend. he continued.
impression that we're just a bunch Cofall stressed again the desire 
of grease monkeys. We welcome be interested in joining such a club We're also thinking about possible Cofall would like to organize a for all types of members for the if it were made available to them." field trips to some of the big tracks race around pylons (the cone-like club, no matter what previous
anyone, especially girls, and you Cofall pointed out that a Sports like Mid-Ohio, Nelson's Ledges,
don't have to have a car yourself to objects used by highway repair experience they have had. "We join." Car Club at Notre Dame existed and maybe even Watkins Glen, crews, etc.) in the stadium parking need people to help in all facets of several years ago, but for some, New York. where the Formula I lot, provided the club can clear
These are the goals of Stanford racing: timing, mechanics the plans with the University. driving, etc. We are going to try t~ "This would be mainly a provide instruction for novices.


Water Conservation Progra:rn 
maneuverability race to show the Dues will be minimal, just enough 
driver's skill, not a speed race," to keep us going," he continued. Cofall stated. A meeting for all interested 
Cofall learned to drive when he members will be held next week. 
slates lecture series at SMC 
"Water Conservation," an eight­lecture series, will be presented during the spring semester at Saint Mary's College beginning Monday, February 3. 
Sponsored by Michiana Watershed, Inc., the Rotary Club of Roseland, the 31 Business and Professional Men's Association, and the Saint Mary's biology department, the series is designed to aid the community in under­standing the historical aspects, current problems, trends and possible solutions to water problems. 
The lecture schedule is as 
follows: 
February 3-"An Introduction to the Status of Water Conservation," Dr. Clarence Dineen, chairman and professor of biology, Saint Mary's College; February 10­"Ground Water Hydrology," by Dr. Neil V. Weber, Assistant professor of geography, Indiana University at South Bend; Fl'!:-ruary 17--"Water Quality TPchnology ," Dr. Wayne l<~chelberger, .Jr., professor of 
Erratum 
1\esidents of Cavanaugh and St. Ed's Halls will bt> admitted free to 'hP North Quad party in the North 
Dining Hall Saturday night. The statement in Wednesday's Ob­>t>rvt·•· should have read, "All residents of the North Quad, in­cluding St. Ed's and Cavanaugh Halls, will be admitted free with their mt>al cards, "not excluded" as reported. 
was eight years old and has loved Time and place will be announced public and environmental affairs, department of natural resources; sports cars "ever since I can in the Observer. For information Indiana University; February 24-April 7--"Political Problems and remember." Vice-President Ed call Cofall at 8773 or Coppola at "Rural and Urban Teamwork," Water Conservation," James Coppola, Faculty Advisor Dick 1023. 
James R. Gettinger, district Jontz, representative, 20th House manager, soil conservation ser-district; and April 14-"Thermal vice, U.S. Department of Pollution and Radiation Wastes as Agriculture; March 3--"Some Related to Water," Jack Legal Protections and Problems," Druckemiller, manager, en­



Acareer in law­
J .S. Crumpacker, South Bend vironmental affairs, I&M Electric 
attorney; March 10-"0ur Water-Co., Fort Wayne. B a s e d R e s o u r c e s --T h e i r All lectures will be held in 
WithOUt laW SChOOl.
Recreation Potential," William C. Carroll Hall, beginning at 7:30 Walters, director, division of p.m. Thepublicisinvited to attend outdoor recreation, Indiana without charge. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an
************************************ 
undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­
sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. Three months of intensive training can give you 
a NORTH QUAD PARTY i 
: SATURDAY NIGHT Feb. 1 : 
the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the six courses offered-choose the
a 9:00 _ 2:00 a 
city in which you want to work. Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training 
has placed more than 700 graduates in law firms. banks. and corporations in over 60 cities. 
: at the North Dining Hall ~ 
* * 

FRI7:009:30 SAT&SUN2:004:307:009:30 MON-THURSB:OO 
Charlie Chaplin Clare Bloom 
"LIMELIGHT" 13()ile.-t-iafte r=lix 
Twtn Theatres/1 OOCenter/M•shawak.a/255-95 75 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant, we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. We will visit your campus on TUESDAY,FEBRUARY11 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 

235 South 17th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 
·Indiana T. Reg. #AC0035 


WANTED 
Need ride to or from NYC or Ll sometime between Feb. 7-21. Call 
Ted 289-1775 
Student typist wanted for bibliographies. 233-1329 or 7579 Patty 
Married couple or male graduate students to act as houseparents for teenage boys in Mishawaka childrens institution. Housing and meals provided. Good salary and fringe benefits. 295-5666 Monday through Fri. 9-5 
FOR SALE 
pair Dynaco 825 speakers 1'12 yrs old $120. 233-3495 
4 pc Drum Set Must sell quick. Call Joe 8678 
For Sale-1965 Ford Custom four. door automatic· good running condition with good tires and 2 snow tires . very Iittle rust · $400 cash 288-2667 
1974 Porche 1.8 Liter 15000 miles, excellent condition for further info call 288-7068 after 5 
Nikon Equipment: Nikon F photomic body; 35 mm, 50 mm, 135 mm Nikor lenses; 200 mm vivitor lens; and 300 mm Soligor lens. Call 8003 before Friday if interested in part or all. 
The ultimate gift for the girl who has everything. Bill Borders 


CLASSIFIED ADS 

NOTICES 1955 Gibson Les Paul. 1929 Sewing -Mending coat shortening National resonator quitar. Expert etc. Experienced ·reasonable. 255­
TF's GRADS EARN $2000 or more repair service. Discount on 5236 after 6 pm
& FREE 5-8 WEEKS IN EUROPE, strings. Sunflower Music Shop. ,632
AFRICA. ASIA. Nationwide Portage Ave. Casting for new SMASH MUSICAL
educational organization needs 'Kathy Reilly'. Call Ron 232-7766
qualified leaders tor H.S. and Looking for a fine stereo and tape
College groups. Send name, ad­system to do some cassette Badin formal open to all-ask the
dress, phone, school, resume, recording. Kevin 1204 guy or gal of your choice. Even if it
leadership experience to: Center is spur of the moment. Jan. 31st.
for Foreign Study, P.O. Box 606, Men· Women! Tixs $6.00 a couple. for into call
Ann Arbor. Ml 48107. Jobs on Ships! No experience 6914 
required. Excellent pay. World­

P.J., wide Travel. Perfect summer job
Jack of all girls, master of none, 
FOR RENT
or career. Send SJ.OO for in­

Wish you continued success (ha!J formation.
with all your women during your SEAFAX, Dept. G-13 P.O. Box 2049 3 room apt for rent $95 month. Call
19th year. Happy Birthday. Port Angeles, Wash. 288-9533 or 232-8392 
SIGN UP NOW for a retreat "KATHY REILLY" is coming Attention of Campus Rentees. JBR
weekend at CAMP EBERHART, House. new carpet, redecoration.
MICH.. Campus Ministry Office, Join our North East Day Care Can take 3 or 4. Available for
103 Library JAN. 31, FEB. 1-2, cost parent cooperative. $15 a month balance of this semester & sum­
$10 plus 4 hours parent participation mer. 287-7818 
per week. 9-5

THE TIME FOR FR. 233-2233 Furn. Apt. 804 N.D. Ave. $80 Mo.
HESBURGHS MASS ON ANTI­Util. incl. 287-8282 aft. 9.
HUNGER DAY FEB. 2 IS Will teach Beginning Guitar in my
INCORRECT ON SOME home. 288-5506 After 7 pm 3 Room Apt. for rent $9S month.
POSTERS. THE CORRECT TIME Call 288-9533 or 232-8392
IS 4:00 PM Car problems? 
Come to Hoffman Bros Eddy at

North Quad Party LOST & FOUND Madison. Wholesale prices to ND­
Sat. night Feb 1 9-2:00 at the North SMC students faculty staff do-it. Found: On North Quad Woman's
Dining Hall. Music by Eden Rock. 
North Quad -free -aII others S1 yourselfers. Repair service also black fur-lined glove. Call 6791 available. Since 1929. 234-0191 
Lost: Navy Pea Coat at Campus Respo'lSible students desire to rent View Party Sat. Call 8947 
Woody Aliens Book GETTING 
EVEN at Pandoras Books 602 N. -motorhome for 10 days (March 21­
St. Louis Blvd. at South Bend Ave. 
30) for trip to Florida. Will pay well. Call Trace 234-1889 PERSONALS 

ROUNDTRIP AIRFARE TO LOS 
ANGELES OVER EASTER MONEY? Morrissey Loan will Ken,
BREAK FOR LESS THAN A ONE· WAY TICKET-AROUND $150. Here's what you asked for. You're
lend up to $150 for 30 days 1 day 

waiting period. Basement of a real Pre-Madonna
PLEASE CALL 289-2757 LaFortune. Daily 11:15-12:15 Y.F.N.E. 
Star, Belle & Sue­1'11 come down to $60-mo.• •;• of the cleaning and no more; •f's your decision! Your Roommate to be(?) 
Gotchie, Free oil check My number is in the book The Phantom Cheeseburger 
Happy B-Day Bozo L. 
Oddball and Freak, Watch out for Gators in Orange country Phineas 
Dead-eye Dindy, good luck on the strip Saturday. Boom Boom away with fierce, flaying ferocious foil. beat their buns bodly for Drano 
Maudefle. Is it true about Dennis and your ceiling Informed Person 
To the Ex-President and Founding Father of the V -Club-We wholeheartedly concur with the findings of the distinguished committee. We are extremely disappointed to find that our guiding light has attempted to lead us astray -but we wil not falter! -WHP and Eugene 
FOR THE DEFFINITION OF 1.0.· CALL TOM 3200 



8 the observer Thursday, January 30, 1975 
,Double jeopardy for Irish: who is Moher or Peterson? 
by Bob Kissel didn't start a grudge from the athletic and academic desires." beginning of the season," ex­"First semester was pretty Call either one of them hot dog plained John Peterson, a graduate tough for me, getting used to the and you would be quite correct. of the Montreal junior hockey whole routine of practice, away One for his on ice antics, the other system. "Many times Len has told games, and studies," noted for his off the ice antics. me points about the other team, Peterson. "Pre-dentistry is what 
Freshmen John Peterson and which benefits both the team and I'm really interested in. Two of the Len Moher play one of the most each other." Canadian universities I know of, visible positions in all sport, "We room together on the road, McGill in Montreal and Toronto, goaltender. In hockey the name of so John and I know each other have very high respect for a Notre the game is consistent, reliable pretty well," added Moher, an all-Dame degree. work betweenthe irons. A team stater in his native "Cornell also recruted me, but that works hard for four goals, but Massachusetts. "Sure we help freshmen can't play varsity there. has a man in the nets who can't each out with points about away I didn't buy that, they don't know stop that three and a half inch rinks and our opponents, but me as well as I know myself. I rubber disk, is going nowhere. splitting the games gives us believe I can take on the dual role 
"With the loss of Mark thatlittle extra bit of competitive as a student and a varsity athlete ( Kronholm l, we had to go on out incentive." as a freshman." and recruit the best possible Both John and Len give people Collegiate hockey, especially in goalies available, and I think we they meet a feeling of confidence, the WCHA, has experienced some did," remarked hockey coach the type of confidence it takes to be new growth pains, one is the in­Lefty Smith. ··our goaltending has both a varsity athlete and an vasion by the pros into the un­been a very pleasant surprise to academically competitive student, dergraduate ranks. Notre Dame me so far. and as freshman on top of that. lost Ray DeLorenzi to the WHA 
"The position of goalie . is much "When Kevin <Hoene) recruited Vancouver club, Wisconsin lost
-
like a quarterback, the player has me, he told me I'd have to work center Dean Talafous to the all the attention on him. Starting hard, with the rigors of practice, Atlanta Flames, Denver's Murray freshmen in goal is like starting a travel, and maintaining a decent Armstrong no longer has the freshman at quarterback, a lot of grade average," explained Moher. services of soph goalie Pete pressure and responsibility." "The adjustment I have had to LoPresti, now with the Minnesota 
From the very start of the make from Philipps Exeter is NHL team. season, Moher and Peterson have learning to set up a schedule and Both John and Len have pro kept the Irish in many games, win then have the discipline to stick to possibilities, if each develops and or lose, with the excellence of their it. overcomes certain areas of their play. But neither has outplayed "Though schoolwork has never game which needs work. But Lefty the other so as to start both nights come easy for me, I wanted both a Smith has great confidence that his of a two-game series. top-quality school that played first two freshmen will stay here four 
"We both realize that splitting division hockey--Notre Dame is years for their degree and then the games is the way it is, so we that place. NO fits both my make a decision about professional hockey. The Lefty Smith philosophy' of education first, then hockey,
NFL selects ten Irish, 
already has rubbed off on Peterson and Moher. "I'd love to give the pros a shot," noted Peterson. "Most Canadians 


Fine in 16th, not T .C. 
play hockey all their lives, but don't get a .:ollege · education. "That's what's soperfectt about

by Pete Mcllugh Defensive halfback Reggie the setup here, I'll learn in the next Barnett joined the NotreDame four ye'ars of top-class hockeyThe National Football League contingent in San Diego with his whether I have definite procompleted its draft yesterday with fourteenth selection. The most chances, but if not, well I'm ready ten members of the Orange Bowl unexpected Irish selection came in with my Notre Dame degree."
Champion Fighting Irish selected the sixteenth round as reserve "I'm in Arts and Letters now andin the seventeen rounds. tight end Tom Fine was Buffalo's not really sure about a major, but I Drafted Tuesday in the first choice and Notre Dame's final definitely have ideas in goverh­round was 6'6, 250 lb. defensive selection. 
ment, political science, or possiblytackle Mike Fanning by the Los Noticeably absent from the draft economics," commented Moher.

Angeles Rams. Co-captain Greg Jist was Irish quarterback Tom "Every once in a while everyCollins was San Francisco's Clements, a three-year starter and hockey player thinks about thesecond round selection with his a selection on numerous All­pros, but I know there are stilllinebacker teammate Drew American teams. Other regulars three more years left before I get Mahalic selected in the third round not drafted were Clements' of­my degree and at the presentby Denver. fensive teammates Mark 'Bren­momentthat's my main concern."
Senior tackle Kevin Nosbusch neman, AI Samuel, Gerry Even though John and Len arecontinued the defensive and DiNardo, and Steve Neece. 
part of the Notre Dame team, they, Western trend in the fifth round as goaltenders, have a wholewith his selection by the San Diego Of those contacted on their different experience in the world of Chargers. Notre Dame's record­selection, the reaction was 

slapshots and faceoffs. The

breaking fullback Wayne "the generally one of surprise. Collins, goaltender is the receiving end of Train" Bullock was the first of­chosen with Bullock by the 49ers, the whole game--the old addagefensive regular selected later in said "I'm very surprised. I thought that hockey starts from thethe round by the 49ers. I'd go around the fourth round. 
goaltender and works out willLate in the tenth round, Steve There were a lot of highly-touted always be true. 

Sylvester became the third players I thought would go "It's really amazing that alineman picked, joining sooner." 
goalie can stop so many tough1973 all-American teammate Dave Fine echoed Collins with a touch shots, yet the crowd onlyCasper with the Oakland Raider. more amazement, "It came as a remembers when the red light goes Wide receiver Pete Demmerle and complete surprise. I heard it on the on," explained Peterson." So I try halfback Eric Penick were drafted radio but they haven't contacted to block out everything except for in the thirteenth round by San me as yet. Yeah, I'm really the puck first and the playersDiego and Denver respectively. pleased." 

second." "The pressure is something that goalies have to live with, because


Hogan first, Irish 7th 
mental preparation and con­centration is 90 percent of our game," added Moher. "Before the game I generally go over my


in indoor track debut 
positional play and the charac­teristics of the other team. 

b,· Pat Holleran 
miler. opened his soph season with "Every goaltender has his off The debut of Irish a solid 4: II third place. Jim Hurt days, both John and myself are no
the indoor (4:13) Mike (4:14) The
track team went as well as could and Housley different. only way to be expected in their away meet at picked off fourth and fifth places keepgoing is to forget the bad goals respectively, showing ND's depth
the University of Illinois Saturday and look ahead." 
at the mile.
afternoon. Coach Don Faley's Off days are few and far bet­squad finished seventh of the nine Mike Gahagan (5th) and Ernie ween for these two freshmen teams competing, but a number of Ribera (6th> cruised in at 2:15 and goalies. Coach Lefty Smith can l'ncouraging performances made 2:16 respectively in the half mile. thank his lucky stars for these two an otherwise dreary afternoon a kids, on the ice and off the ice.
Paul Martuscello was en­little brighter. 
couraging in his fifth place tie in
Polevaulter Mike Hogan's vault Women's b-ball
the 300 at 32.5. Jim O'Brien reeled of 15 feet gave the Irish their lone off a quick I: 13.5 in the 600, going
first-place fiish of the afternoon. The Notre Dame women's
out in 50.7 in the first 440.
Teammate Jack Seth's vault of 14 basketball team opens its 1975
Next stop for the Irish is Ann
feet qualified him for second place, season tonight against the
Arbor for a triangular meet
but he was dropped to fourth on the Michigan State Spartans in East
against stiff competition with
number of misses. Lansing. The Irish make their
Michigan and Bowling Green. 
In the mile, three of the top home debut this Saturday in the
Saturday's meet will privide Notre ACC in a 11:00 a.m. encounter with 
performers for Faley's cross Dame with strong challenges in country team fared well. For the their area of strength, the middle Toledo preceding the varsity Irish Jim Reinhart. 1973's top prep distances. (male> game with Xavier. 
.­
..
~·~· 

Len Moher lends more of that Boston flavor to this year's leers. He 
shares net time with another freshman John Peterson. 
Wrestlers sweep three 
by Rich Odioso The re::.ted Notre Dame starters 
tore into St. Francis with a 
Coach Fred Pechek's Irish vengeance 31-3 routing the Red 
wrestlers warmed up for this Flashes in the first eight matches 
weekend's National Catholic before 158-pounder Dowd was 
Tournament in impressive fashion beaten in the 190-pound match. 
yesterday with a trio of wins. Dowd, pressed into service by 
Th~ matmen first bested injury, still fought a good bout 
Evansville 24-11. After Skip despite the 30-pound weight dif­
Mondragon fought to a scoreless ference. 
tie, Steve Moylan, Dan Heffernan, The big Irish winners of the day 
Pat Landfried, Dave Boyer and included 126-pounder Steve Moylan 
Mike Padden all won to give the who won three matches including a 
Irish a commanding 21-2 lead. 55-second pin, Pat Landfried who 
The Irish then turned back scored a pair of superior decisions 
Valpariaso 24-15. The Crusaders at 142, and Bob Dreger and Dave 
forfeited the first two matches Boyer who each had a pin and a 
enabling the Irish to rest their win. 

starters although back-up men The Irish, now 7-5, move onto 
Fritz Bruening and John Dowd Collegeville, Minnesota for Friday 
proved only slightly less able than and Saturday's eight-team tour­
the starters, scoring easy wins. ney. Notre Dane figures to battle 
Heavyweight Ken Dike finished off for the title along with arch-rival 
the Valpo match with an im­John Carroll. The next home 
pressive 7-0 win. match is Tuesday against Wayne 
State. 






OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
SMC cagers ready for ND battle of the sex 
by Kathi Paterno last season's team, agreed. "With 
most of last year's girls back, 
we've become more of a team. 
In an Iowa high school this year, We're used to playing with each the gate receipts for a hard other." fighting women's basketball team Ed Merrion, a senior Notre totalled higher than the men's. Dame student, is the new head Well, this isn't Iowa, it's not high coach and is optimistic as his school, and quite possibly the gate players. receipts won't surpass those of the "We've really got a fine squad Fighting Irish. However, this this year, with plenty of new fresh­season's spectator will see a strong men--including an all-state from and highly talented women's Connecticut. Right now, there's basketball squad emerge from the two teams .I could start. I believe practice courts of Moreau we're in good shape for the seminary. season." 
This is the second year of official Merrion attributes the team's organization for the St. Mary's excellent conditioning program to College women's basketball team Bedford Bruno, an assistant coach. and enthusiasm is running high. An all-stater from Maryland, 
"We're physched to win," stated Bruno brought in some rigorous last year's starting forward Pee training routines to the practices. Wee Lamb. "There's more spirit Highlights of the season will be than even last year, probably match-ups agains the women of because we have a couple ofgreat Notre Dame on February 6 and 22 new coaches and we're really in the Convo and games against organized." Marquette and Purdue. 
Mary Kelly, also returning from Move over, Iowa. 




