
~-~~------­
-

server 

university of notre dome -st. mary's college 
iWednesdBy, September 11, 1975
Vol. X, No. 10 


No changes seen 

Duggan discusses future 
by Mary Janca The new president is "all in favor" of the St. Mary's Editor recent extention of male visitation hours from 10 Dr. John Duggan, the recently-inaugurated p.m. to midnight, on Friday and Saturday president of St. Mary's College forsees no major evenings. Prior to this semester's extention, changes in the school in the immediate future. parietals hours were from 6 p.m.-10 p.m. on 
In an interview last week, the former vice Fridays, I p.m.-10p.m. on Saturdays, and from 1­president for student affairs at Vassar College, 
5 p.m. on ·sunday afternoons. Duggan stated that the 10 p.m.. deadline was
stated. "I have no intention to re-direct St. Mary's, or to do a 90 degree turn-around. I am 
"unrea~onable." However, he believed that any here because I believe in the agreed-upon goals extensiOn beyond midnight, or conducting of the College, but will make changes to reach 
visitation hours during the weekday evenings those goals as it becomes necessary." 
would change the nature of St. Mary's as a 
women's college.

A larger endowment to increase scholarship funds. higher faculty salaries, the construction 
Rt>lations between St. Mary's and Notre Dame
of proposed recreation facility, and the renovation or construction of a new library, are 
Regarding the relationship between St. Mary'samong the changes the new president expects, and Notre Dame, the president said, "We (SMC>and has already begun to make. 
an have no intention of moving away from NotreIn addition, Duggan "would like to see Dame."
expanded social life" on the St. Mary's campus, "I have had several conversations with Fr.
and pointed to the senior picnic held in the SMC Hesburgh, University of Notre Dame president,Clubhouse last Friday as an example of the type and Fr. Burtchaell, University provost, and amof social activities which should be encouraged convinced that we <Notre Dame and St. Mary's)here. 
are both interested in exploring every way in
While noting that he would still like to find out more about St. Mary's, Duggan commented that 
which we can co-operate to our mutual ad­vantage," he noted.
he also• wants "to be known to students, and to know students."He outlined his plan to meet Duggan described the type of relationship he every student on the SMC campus. feels that St. Mary's should enjoy with Notre 
By sponsoring freshmen teas and wine and Dame as an "arm's length cordiality." cheese parties at his house for seniors, this year • He believes that SMC has an important role to and the next, the president hopes to acquaint play as a small, Catholic, women's liberal arts 
himself with as many students of the College as college; it must not lose its identity. possible.. Although there will be no reconsideration of Duggan believes that to get to know the merger of the two schools, Duggan commented 
students is part of his responsibility as chief that he is "delighted that Notre De me is across administrator, because, as he said, "St. Mary's the street" from St. Mary's..~'We <Notre Dame ('Xists for students." and St. Mary's> would be fools not to take ad­
Thus, when the hectic pace of settling into his vantage of our juxtaposition." new position slows down, he hopes also "to get 
The new chief administrator pointed out thatout and around more on the campus, and to go he is also "delighted that our women have theinto the dining hall, have a cup of coffee with opportunity to test their intellectual a.bilities instudents, and chat." 
the classroom situation with men," referrin~ to the co~xchange of classes between Notre L meLength of Term 
and St. Mary's. He continued, noting that he is equally pleased While discussing the five presidents-three that cultural and social programs at Notre Dame permanent and two interim-that St. Mary's has are available to St. Mary's students, andhad within the past five years, Duggan was programs at St. Mary's are likewise opfn toasked how long his term of orfice would be. 
Notre Dame students.

"Anyone taking this job <president of St. Mary's) and not expecting to stay here for at Above all, the new president is "committed to least five years, is not doing that job justice," he enhancing the tremendous sense of community commented. that is here." With this in mind, he is attempting 
"It takes at least that long to sort your ideas to meet with faculty members informally twice and then to make and implement plans." weekly, and thus break down "the natural 
After the fifth year as College president, the division between departments and bel'ween decision to remain in that position must be an administration and faculty." individual one, made between the particular Duggan also hopes to meet with each depart­institution, and the particular administrator ment individually, and to meet monthly with all involved, Duggan contended. members of the administration to facilitate 
"I didn't come to St. Mary's to use it as a communication. stepping stone," he continued. "I came here because I found that what is here to be congenial (continued on page 6) 
.., to me and my_ style." 
Burtchaell comments 

Role of wo1:1en changing 
by Mary Mungovan Burtchaell sees "the liberation cited June Mccausolin,director of Staff Reporter 
of women eliciting the financial aid; Sr. John Miriam renegotiation of roles within the Jones, assistant to the provost; Sr. Fr. James T. Burtchaell, family. Many marriages are going Isabel Charles, acting dean of the Provost, discussed thechanging to be created by husbands and College of Ats and Letters and the role of women in the church, the wives both of whom welcome five women rectors as significant family and society in his opening children and both of whom wish to administrators. He explained the Mass sermon S~nday in Sacred dedicate their lives to challenging low numbers of women in senior Heart Church. jobs." faculty positions is the result of In his sermon, Burtchaell said, Burtchaell claims coeducation at having women on thefaculty for 
"The opportunity for public life Notre Dame provides an example only ten years. and service which society had of "liberation for women and In response to Burtchaell's denied to all but a few women is liberation for men." He noted the sermon, Carole Moore, asst. now being thrown open toall pattern of academic and career professor of history and chair­women who wish to take ad­interests of female students differs person of Committee W of the vantage of it." He added, "One little from those of male students. American Association of deplorable exception to this He later commented that many University Professors, reported, general enfranchisement is the faculty families associated with "the unofficial figures on women in obstinate refusal of most Christian the university are an example of academic positions at Notre churches to ordain_ qualified theshared roles of husband and Dame for this year indicate that women." Burtchaell later com­wife in career and family. we have lost ground for the second mented that though there are also In the numbers and positions of year in a row.'' Moore commented, other exceptions, "it is in­women in the faculty and ad­"It's marvelous that someone in a creasingly more difficult to find ministration, Burtchaell believes high position of leadership as Fr. areas where women are still Notre Dame provides a good 
(continued on page 4 > denied." example of equal opportunity. He by Jim Commyn 
Staff Reporter 

Ten students are competing for three of the seven undergraduate seats on this year's Student Life Council. Pete Gottsacker, election chairman, released the candidates' names last night as the nomination period ended. Primary elections will be held Tuesday, September 23. 
Sean McLinden, a Keenan junior; Jim Spurling, a senior in Zahm; Ed Van Tassel, a Keenan junior; and Stacey Weaver, a Farley sophomore are competing for the North Quad seat. 
Sorin junior1Mike Richter; John Salveson, a junior in Alumni; Tom Hogan, Cavanaugh .senior, and Andy Simhauser, Pangborn junior are competing for the South quad seat. 
Gottsacker clarified the district boundaries. The south quad district includes all those who eat at the South Dining Hall. All those eating in the North Dining Hall comprise the north quad district. The third district is composed of off-eampus students. 
Only two student are competing for the off-campus seat. Phil Mancini, a senior living in Campus 
View and John Lynch, a junior living in Notre Dame Avenue are vying for the seat. 
"A whole new block of student 11 
are involved here." GOttsacker 
reported. He admitted that he 
wished moreinterest would have 
been shown in ruonm, for the off­
campus seat. He also expressed 
concern with the off-campus 
student."!' relation to on~mpus 
activities and the administration 
Ballot boxes will be provided tor 
the first time in two off-eampus 
locations for this reason. 
Student Body President Ed 
Byrne, acting chairman of the SLC 
said he "is hopeful and thinks a lot 
J 
will be done this year." 

For the first time the SLC will have explicit tasks set for them he reported. Many of the questions raised in the C.O.U.L.reports will be discussed. The SLC will be the main vehicle for passing any proposals. Ac­cording to Byrne, "much of the homework has already been done and the SLC can begin immediate action on certain issues." 
In Byrne's opinion, "the big issues this year will be a continued examination of the university's 
alcohol guidelines and a restructuring of the judial board system." 
Byrne's and Gottsacker agreed that the SLC's first order of business would be the budget hearings foli student government , student union and the various campus clubs. 
Gottsacker felt the Keenan­Stanford coeducation possibility, parietals, and the drug situation might also rank high on the SLC's claendar of events. 
Voting hours on September 23 will be 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 5 
p.m. to 6:30 p.m. in the halls on campus.. Ballot boxes will also be open during the same hours at the new polling places. Campus View and the Notre Dame Apartments. Ballot boxes in the Huddle and the library will be open from 12 noon to 6 p.m. 
The SLC was established in the late liHiO's to discem, debate and recommend solutions to student relatedproblems for the univeniity in general and the Board of Trustees in particular. It is composed of fifteen memb:ers. including seven students. They include the three district representatives, the studen~ government officers, anti a member a~inted by the I:WI Presidents' (_(Ouncil. 
the observer Wednesday, September 17, 1975 
warld briefs 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. <AP) -Quarterback George Mira of the Jacksonville Express lost the tip of his left index finger in a World Football League game Sunday at Honolulu's new Aloha Stadium. 
Trainer Brady Greathouse of the Express said Mira apparently caught his finger in one of the giant zippers on the artificial turf when he was tackled. "The stadium is set up for baseball, too, and when it's converted to football they cover certain areas with turf by using giant zippers," .. Greathouse said. 
WASHINGTON <AP) -The Central Intelligence Agency main­tained a secret poison arsenal and developed sophisticated hard­ware to deliver the toxins despite a presidential order to eliminate the poison stockpile, according to CIA Director William E. Colby. 
He told the Senate Intelligence Committee on Tuesday that records from the $3-million CIA-Army poison project later were obliterated on orders of then-CIA Director Richard Helms. Just hours later, a CIA counsel said Colby was in error and that no records were dest~oy~. 
NEW YORK <AP)-TheNationalFootball League's shaky labor relations fell apart Tuesday, with the Washington Redskins and New York Jets joining the New England Patriots on strike in moves which a league spokesman said placed "the regular season in jeopardy.'' 
Attitudes hardened on both sides as the NFL, beset by legal problems and unrest among its players, suddenly was presented with what could be its most serious labor problem only five days before the regular season is scheduled to open. 
WASHINGTON <AP> -President Ford said Tuesday he will ask for administrative changes in the Central Intelligence Agency but that he will not rule out political activities in other countries if American Security is involved. 
The President did not spell out what the changes mightbe. But in an earlier interview with the Chicago Sun-Times he was quoted as saying he may strip the CIA of its authority to conduct covert policical operations overseas. 
MOSCOW <AP) -A top. State Department official sent here by President Ford to seek. an end to sudden large Soviet purchases of 
U.S. grain left for home Tuesday saying he was "very optimistic" that a long-term grain trade pact will be signed soon. 

an campus taday 
12:15 pm .. 
3:00pm-­6:30pm -­6:30pm-­7:30pm -­
7:30pm -­
7:30 pm -­

seminar, "methodologies in gene analysis and the modification of genes and gene expression.'' by dr. robert erickson, rm 278 galvin life sci. ctr. workshop, christine walevska, ceiJJst, little theater. interview info, placement nights, eng. aud. meeting, sailing club, 303 eng. aud. american scene, "was the american revolution wor· thwhile?" by stanley idzerda, carroll hall. meeting, fellowship of christian athletes, farley hall. conference, "obscenity and community standards," cce. 
8:15pm--concert, chicago symphony string quartet, lib. aud., $1. 

Discussion group formed to honor Prof. O'Malley 
by Sue Carey Staff Reporter 
The Wranglers, an informal discussion group which was begun by the late Professor Frank O'Malley in the 1940's has been reinstituted by Professor E.A. Goerner of the Government Department. 
Goerner, himself a member of the Wranglers as a student, has set up a schedule of bi-weekly 
' meetings to discuss an unlimited range of topics. 
According to Student Coor­dina tor Pat Miskell, "The object of the Wranglers is to provide an opportunity for students to get together and discuss subjects and ideas that interest them." Miskell added that the discussions usually center around a paper presented by one member of the group. 
Discussing his own days as a cumulative averages in our society, we tasted a bit of the joy in free search and debate ... " 

The discussion format of the Wranglers is flexible. Members are urged but not required to at­tend the meetings regularly and to submit occasional papers for consideration by the group. Goerner acts as an informal moderator, but the aim is toward relaxed and unstructured con­versation. 
The Wranglers society is open to all students. Miskell noted that the group might be of particular in­terest to non-Arts and Letters majors who may not find this kind of cdiscussion in their classes. 
The Wranglers will hold an organizational meeting next Monday, September 22. For fur­ther details, contact Pat Miskell at 1015 or Jim Gray at 272-1852. 
Saint MaryS Campus Ministry to offer 'informal' courses 
by Maggie Waltman Staff Reporter 
St. Mary's Campus Ministry will sponsor three non-credit courses during the fall semester. The courses, open to all students at Notre Dame and St. Mary's, are Marriage in the 70's, Basic Catholic Belief and Music in the Church. 
According to Sr. Kathy Teichert, coordinator of the St. Mary's 
Campus Ministry,  the  courses  
were  established  to  "provide  
somethinK  in  the  evening  that  

could be informal,yet at the same time, intellectually stimulating." Reichert said the Campus Ministry hopes that students will participate in this type of course which "is organized, yet open~nded enough to encourage discussion." 
Marriage in the 70's is designed to be a mix of the theology of marriage and a look at the lived reality of marriage. Instructor Kate Regaux will cover several topics including the meaning of love and commitment, marriage as a life-style and the role children play in a relationship. 
Regaux, who has an M.A. in theology from Notre Dame, is active in areas of sex education and is the coordinator of the Pre­Cana program at St. Mary's. 
Basic Catholic Belief, taught by Bob Morlino, S.J., will attempt to answer the question of how actual faith experiences fit in with the basic teachings of the Church. Topics include techniques of human decision-making, followed by discusskn of such things as understanding sin and the moral questions of abortion and war. 
Fr. Morlino has his M.A. in philosophy and ·theology and is presently a doctoral student in philosophy at Notre Dame. 
Music in the Church explains the function and purpose of music in the celebration of the Eucharist. The course provides both formal and informal education for anyone wanting to work with the campus liturgical program. 
The instructor, Pat Pritchard, is presently teaching music at Brandywine High School and has an M.A. in Liturgical Music from Notre Dame. This duscussion meeting is followed by a training session for those interested in being lectors and commentators at Mass. These sessions are headed by two Notre Dame seminarians, Bill Loughran, C.S.C. and Scott Cooley, C.S.C. 
Although the discussion groups met for the first time this week, Reichert said that anyone in­terested in attending future classes "is welcome to sit in on the discussion groups." 
The courses all meet one evening 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during e><ams and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. 
Subscriptions may be purchased for 10 dollars per semester (18 dollars per year) from The Ob­server, Box Q, Notre Dame, In· diana, 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
member of the Wranglers,: CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS 
Goerner noted, "With the ex-: 

ception of the encounters with one: VS. DALLAS HAWKS 
professor whose course I audited, ! 

Wranglers was and still is more: SAT SEPT 20th 7 ·30 p M 
important to the deepest reaches of .,;_ • • • • • ; my education. than anything else NOTRE DAME ACC at Notre Dame." Concerning the organization of the group•, Goerner added, "Each 
PRICES
of us read a paper in the question 

that most drew his wonder and Adults .......... $3.50 
sustained reflection during the , Youths(16 yrs. & under) 
year, to which the other nineteen : also ND & SMC students 
responded. In our meetings I heard : 

and spoke to papers from fellow : ..........$2.00 
students in physics, mathematics, : 

philosophy, politics, economics, : Tickets on sale at 
and literature. I discovered things : ACC 9-5 MON. -Sat. 
i 
I never dreamt of ... since we had no : : 
grades , no transcripts, no ; ...............• • • • •••• • •• • • • • • • •. •. • • • • •• • • • • • • • ••• • • • • • • • • • • •••: 
·:.. • • • • • • • • • ·~ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ... • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • • •" : ­
a week. Marriage in the 70's is on . The classes meet in the St. Tuesdays from 7-8:30, Basic Mary's Campus Ministry ac­Catholic Beleif meets on Mondays tivities room in the basement of from 6:30-7:30, and Music in the Holy Cross Hall. across from the Church meets on Wednesdays post office. For further in-' 
from 6-7, followed by the training formation call the SMC Campussession at 7: 15. Ministry at 4696. 
~-----------------­

ROCCOS 
BARBERS & HAIRSTYLISTS 
*RAZOR CUT *SCISSOR CUT *PERMANENTS 3 CHAIRS 
MAKE AN APPOINTMENT OR JUST DROP BY! ROFFLER PRODUCTS 
531 N. MichiQan 233 -4957 
Rl 
AT JORDAN FORD 




LOUIES PIZZA 
NICE PEOPLE&GOOD FOOD ····GOOD TIMES AT LOUIES-ND AVE! 

IN CONCERT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM SAT. SEPT. 20 8PM ALL SEATS RESERVED $5 -$4 -$3 
tickets on sale now at morris auditorium box office 1 1-5 suspended chord -elkhart&goshen 
record joint-bell plaza niles 
Wednesday, September 17,.1975 the observer
lit nu Law l)t:.uuu.a 

No class rank relieves pressure 
by Patrick Cole Staff Reporter 
To rank or not to rank. Although most American law schools decide to rank their students, the Notre Dame Law School does not com­pute class rank. 
The Law Faculty abolished ranking in 1969 because of the harmful effects. "I would guess that most schools give class rank," said Professor David T. Link, Dean of the Notre Dame Law School. "We try to explain to people the importance of progress in specific courses." 
Consequently, this policy toward class rank eliminates the need for grade-point average com­putations. The Law School does not provide statistics to compute rank. Likewise, the Law School does not endorse anyone who makes them. As policy, it is considered dishonest for a student to imply, orally or in writing, that the school keeps class rank or grade-point averages. 
"We do not give class rank because employers could be mislead," continued Dean Link. "Having no class rank forces employers to look at the entire record." 
After the first year of law school, the type of course in which a student is enrolled differs. Thus a problem arises in determining the best student. "The problem with class rank is that the curriculum is variable," commented Professor Robert E. Rodes of the Law School. 

"You just can't compare each student. Class rank is determined by two things : one student is doing well or the other student is doing poorly." 
How have employment op­portunities been affected by this policy'/ 


observer 
Most people received jobs as well as job offers through the services of the Law School. Ac­cording to a survey conducted by the Law School Placement Bureau, 88 per cent of 69 respondees had job offers as of April 28, 1975. The Law School attributes this success to their policy because recruiters become aquainted with the students instead of categorizing them based on class rank. Dean Link said a fair amount of students are not considered if they don't rank in the top ten percent of their class. 
Furthermore, the Law School 
has placed students in 
Metropolitan law firms and key 
government offices. Recent 
statistics of the American Bar 
Foundation reveal Notre Dame 
has one of the highest percentages 
of graduates on the bench. Ten to 
fifteen percent of the graduates 
are awarded judicial clerkships. 
"Not having a class rank causes 
a student to get a job," said Dean 
Link. "I believe the students here 
are capable of work anyplace. 
Just compare how well we have placed students." 
Other students consent to the class rank policy. Tom Yanucci, a third-year law student and editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer, said, "The absence of a class rank takes away the cutthroat at­mosphere present in other law schools. 
insirJht 
"However, some employers just Wilnt law review members. Fortunately, there are other ac­tivities for the law students such as the Legal Aid and Defender Association and the Student Bar Association. By not having grades a s a factor, the students are forced to turn to other activities." 
Martin Hagan, third-year student and administrative editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer, added, "Being on the Law Review is a crucial distinction. Grades do not affect us so much but probably others. 
"Anyhow the policy emphasizes the person, not just a number. It takes personality into account." 
Vannucci acknowledged some employers favor the use of a class rank. "A lot of employers and even some alumni have criticized the policy. For example, an em­ployer will know definitely if he is getting the third best or fifth best 

Photographer used to identify panty-raiders Monday night 
by Mark M. Murphy Starr Reporter 
Acting on a directive issued last Friday, Dean of Students James Roemer sent Student Affairs personnel and photographers to St. Mary's Monday night during a 
Unemployment to stay over 8% 
by Jill Truitt Staff Reporter 
The unemployment rate will remain above eight per cent until at least 1978, predicts Joseph Alal·mo, vt"ce prest"dent of the 
Continental Illinois Bank and Trust 
Company of Chicago. 
1
Speaking last night at a ecture sponsored by the St. Mary's
business department, Alaimo said 
that government, management, 
and labor must combine forces to 
create enough jobs for the growing 
labor force. 
, "A lot of things can be done, Alaimo explained. "Governments 
to come into the labor market. The important thing is to provide everyone with a job; to get the economy going so that more jobs I 
are created," Alaimo added. I
Alaimo spoke before a Carroll I Hall audience of approximately 1 one hundred people. He predicts 1
prices will continue to rise due to the increase in business costs I whichcut into their profit margin. 11 
Price hikes will result in what 
Alaimo calls a "nervous con-I sumer". He said that this in-I dividual is one who shops carefully I and tends to save more than in the 1 past. "Consumerswillbanktento 1 
eleven per cent dof their y~rly I 
wages compare to prevtous I 
norms of six to seven per cent," I Alaimo estimates. I


pr~~:C~ive:d:foc'rthm:r~!~ ~~~I 
vestors. "If the inflation rate I 
drops to near six per cent, buy I panty raid... Brother Just Pac­zesny, vice-president for St1,1dent Affairs, was on hand a,long with a photographer to witness . the raid 

by 125 Notre Dame men and to 
catch any student breaking in or 
vandalizing St. Mary's property. 
According to St. Mary's Security the raid was of small proportion and no buildings were entered. St. Mary's Security Director Anthony Kovatch said he had seen no visible damage as a result of the raid. "No one was hurt, nothing that we know of was rlamaged,"Kovatch reported, "and that's what we strive for d.,aring these types of incidents." 
Rhoetmer, hhowevert, kconfifrmed 
P 0 ograp s were a en o one 
t. t

N0t D 5t d t tt 0
re arne u en a emp mg 
enter a building but that the
situation does not warrant any
disciplinary action by the Dean of 
d ff" h 
Stu ents 0 tee. "T e incident 
Monday night was not as serious as 
f. t t "d " "d R
the trs pan Y rat ' sat oemer, 

"butt. in the ftuture f!ltY office wildl 
con mue o wt ness an
photograph any large crowd seriously disrupting St. Mary's 
The Dean of Students went on to say that "potential mob crowds only lead to danger for the many people in the area. My warnings are a reminder to the students that living in a University environment does not exclude them from out­side laws." 
St. Mary's College presented Notre Dame with a $425 bill to cover damage done by raiders last week.Roemer then issued a wa·rning that mischievous students breaking into dormitories or vandalizing SMC property would be photographed and their names referred to local authorities. St. Mary's students descrtbed the crowd of panty raiders as very
mild mannered. One Regina lfall 
ed ,
R.A. report that 'there were 
only about 100 taking p.art and all 
th d d d 
ey i was run aroun ye11ingthings. No one even tried to enter the buildings."
Kovatch noted that Roemer's 
. N D d t 
warmng to otre arne stu en s
"really helped a lot during the raid. It will have a lasting effect on 
future incidents and hopefully will cut down on ~'f"ther damage to SMC property. 
student from the class of a school that computes class rank. But at Notre Dame, they can't tell exactly." 
Mildred Kirstowski, placement director at the Law-School, commented on the practical ex­perience obtained in the Law School. "There are trial advocacy courses, legal clinics and in­ternships available for the students here. Many students receive actual training before they are hired for a job." The Law School believes this aids the em­ployers in seeing the total picture of the student. 
The class rank policy has not caused a total neglect of perfor­
mance bv the student. The grades after a students' first year are considered significant to most students. "Good grades," said Vannucci, "can get you a summer job. If you do well on the job and make a good impression on the employer, the firm or /company may hire you after graduation. 
Thus the absence of grade-point average computations has an important benefit. The policy creates a relaxed atmosphere amongst the students. Dean Link said the students are not as grade conscious. Instead of extreme competitiveness, the students cooperate more. "The climate is 
healthier than at other law schools~" stated Hagan. 
GRANO OPENING! SPECIAL 
Beer Prices You Won't Believe 
&GDOD PIZZA TOO! 
THE BACK DOOR 
(BEHIND THE CAPRI LIQUOR STORE) 

THE LAW BOARD REVIEW SEMINAR TAUGHT BY PRACTICING ATTORNEYS 
The Law Board Review Center announces a special,weekend Seminar in preparation for the October LSAT. The instructing attorney fully prepares the aspiring law student to maximize h'is/ her score on the Test. The Seminar .Provides a thorough analysis of the LSAT, including extensive replication and review of all relevant sections of the Test. This intensive weekend review also includes 'special emphasis in those areas where scores are most likely to be improved, consideration of test­taking techniques, and materials for additional study.The complete lee is $85. 
IN NOTRE DAME at the Holiday Inn Sat. & Sun., Sept. 27th & 28th Sat.-9AM-3:30PM-Sun.-9AM-6:30PM 
Information and Reservations Call Toll-Free 800-458-2380 
LAW BOARD REVIEW CENTER 
32 Gramercy Park South 10770 Lawler Street Los Angeles, Calif. 90034 
, New York, New Uork 10003 
-~®OQOOCIOIII~illl'lll1'115151mU:IOQ(!QQCIQIIIIIQ!Ia!Q!IaggQRRRII!!RiiiRe&oooooooOOO<~
campus., 

~ro~~c~~'::~~ero t~ ~::~a~~o~~ r-------------y··-A·---E··-----K·--w··---0--·-N----&.:!~a-D--~O-----.. 
week, thus enabling more workers ~ N D . ·~. 
I







T H E B E S T C L U B I
1 
· 1 TH IN E KWON DO
INSTRUCTORS; DONG SIK KIM (6 DAN TA , I 4TH DAN IN HAPKIDO) I CHARLES BOHN 2ND DAN I DANIEL TOLSON 2ND DAN I 
COMPARE 
N.D. TAEKWONDO 6TH DAN 
NATIONAL & INTERN·ATIONAL 

AJT ENTIQN 
INSTRUCTOR 
M-W-F Class 

Oriental Instructor CALL. NOW 283-877 , -I 
Thai's why we I · d • ACC W I" G I
c ass BeginS We . -Fn. rest lng ym 6pml 
I 
I 
I
I YOU CAN BE A BLACKBELT BEFORE 1 YOU GRADUATE-IMPROVE YOUR I 
STUDYING. WE CAN HELP. I 
4 287 6189l 
~:~~~;"~~a:~~~:~e>da·~~~::;~~/! •Free Club T-Shirt To First 25 St. Marv's &First 50 N'O.New Members on~.l 
~~~-·---------------------------~-------~----------------­


I 
i I 
~ 
~ 


Isabel Charles:· 
'running the place' 
an interview by 
Editor's Note: Isabel Charles, assistant dt'an of the College of Arts and Letters, was appointed acting dean of the college by University President Fr. Theodore llesburgh for the 1975-76 academic year. She serves as temporary replacement for Dean Frederick Crosson, who retired at the t>nd of last year. 
Dr. Charles did her undergraduate work at Manhattan College, Riverdale, N.Y. and received her M.A. and Ph.D. in English from Notre Dame. After a year of post­doctoral study In 1968 at the Center for the Study of Higher Education at the University of Michigan, she served as executive vice­president and academic dean of Ohio Dominican College In Columbus, where she has previously taught for three years on the English faculty. When she came to the University In 1973 as assistant deun she was the first woman to hold that position at Notre Dame. Dr. Oharles also 
holds a concurrent appointment as 
associate professor of English. 
Last year Dr. Charles chaired the Search Committee which reviewed over 300 ap­plications for the position of Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. At the time of Dr. Charles' appointment. Fr. Hesburgh announced that the committee would 


marshall tucker: 's--t kicking music 
The small crowd in Morris Civic last night looked like they were from some Southern Boogie Bar. Blue jeans, t-shirts and straw hats on most. They play Frisbee and toss things and look very high, just like the Boogie Crowd does. These couldn't be the people who had never heard of the Marshall Tucker Band, just two years ago. They looked and acted jsut like a Boogie Crowd but they didn't feel like a Boogie Crowd. 
Heartsfield, the opening act, was quite a pleasant surprise. This country-rock band out of the Chicago area showed-off an im­pressive amount of guitar and vocal talent. Their sound ranged from material soundind a lot like Poce to stuff coming from the Eagle to some of the Outlaws' latest musical endeavors. The band achieved this through their great versatility among instruments:. Combinations ranged from fiddle, acoustic guitar and two lead guitars to a combination of four lead guitars. The resulting music is their own, but it doesn't sound like "them"? 
Most of their music sounds much like other bands' material and very few of their songs have the distinctive sound of a "top" band. There are a few songs that are original sounding they sound really great. "Nashville," a 

maureen flynn 

continue its search for a successor to Dean Crosson. 
Isabel Charles, in her office on the first floor of O'Shaughnessy, discussed her role in the College of Arts and Letters and at Notre Dame in general. 
Q: What are your duties as acting dean? Do you plan to make any changes in the coming year? 
A: Basically, my job is to keep the place running. Of course, we're not going to tread water for a year. I would like to facilitate forward movement by taking a serious look at the departments and helping the chair­men to strengthen them. 
I'd also like to make the students more aware that there is a dean. I've been thinking of having several coffee hours later in the semester. I couldn't possibly meet with 2000 students, but if we divided the evenings up by class it would give me an opportunity to keep an open ear to the needs and ideas of the students. 
Q: Just what is involved in "running the place?" 
A: There are so many factors involved in the operation of the college that the dean has to decide which ones to devote the most attention to. There are university responsibilities in addition to the super­vision of the college. 

a review by w.s. nichols 
song and a jazzy "As I Looked Into the Fire" were excellent works that were tastefully done by a technically excellent band. 
"Foolish Pleasure,"asonsaboutttheevils ol booze and drugs, was by far the best performance of the evening. They were assisted in this song by the Tucker's Jerry Eubanks . This is the title song for their recently released third album, and if this is 

representative of the material in the album, look like he should be standing in a field but then this is a band to watch. With a little he can burn up a:guitar with his speed and polish and originality, they could go a long skill, or make it wail with the slow blues. way. His brother Tom showed his family talents 
The crowd during intermission did all the with an excellent bass solo in "24 Hours at A normal things-throWing Frisbees and Time. " The flute and sax of Jerry Eubanks ushers' lights, yelling, hanging out and was smooth and flowing throughout the going out to look for food or girls. They had whole niJ;~;ht. Vocalist Doug Gray made up brought ·the band back for one encore but for his lack of instrument by a multi-octave after that, they were contented to performance of "Rambling on my Mind" wander back to find the bathrooms. They that was nothing short of amazing. The rest did try to rush the stage before the band of the band, drummer Paul Riddle and 
came ou(.' One point in their favor. rhythm guitarist George McCorkle, played The Marshall Tucker Band started out on steadily ~nd tightly • weaving in and out of a softer key, opening with "Give Me the solos eastly · Land," a new song. Two more new songs . The crowd b.royght back the band for the followed, "Bound and Determined" and first encore ~lth the c.ust~mary hoots, cat­"Searching for a Rainbow." Both sounded calls, stompmg and hghtm~ of matches. very much like some earlier material. The Nobody had started leavt~g when ~oy band has distinctive vocals and guitars Cald~ell cr~~ked the ba~d mto ~. rousmg which t 'bute to their distinctive sound. versiOn of . Take th~ Htghway, an old 
con n crowd favortte. They Jammed for about ten minutes when Toy led them into a blues medley made up of "Everyday I Get the Blues" and the Allmans' "You Don't Love Me." They played confidently and smoothly, sprinkling liberally with solos from Toy and Jerry. The second encore consisted of my favorite song, "This Old Cowboy." The flute-lead guitar duets created a spacey country sound that fit the image of the lonesome"cosmic cowboy" and his searchings in the barren wastelands of Modern America. 
The crowd was getting impatient and did not support another encore and the band left, tired but richer. And the crowd left, happy and poorer. The sad thing is neither group inspired the other. Th'e crowd did not inspire the band and the band did not give them an inspired performance. Don't get me wrong, it was good, even superb, but it wasn't inspired. We didn't see the best out of them and we didn't give them our best. The Tuckers play\ smooth, original music, and they did it)well. but they looked like they wanted to do something else. And the crowd, well, they had nothing else to do. 
It's hard for the Marshall Tucker Band to sound like anybody else. They got most of the crowd out of ,their seats with "Can't you See?" from their .second album, and had everybody out of their seats for "24 Hours at a Time"also from their second. Toy Caldwell's flat-picking, guitar style con­vinces me that he is definitely one fo the finest guitar players in the world. He may 
Wednesday, September 17, 1975 
Q: What about the Search Committee--was it disappointing to work for a year and fail to find a candidate acceptable to the univer­sity? 
A: It was a very difficult and a very exhaustive task. We reviewed between 300 and 400 applications, and chose three names to submit to the president and the provost. The recommendations, however, took place in the context of a discussion so the com­mittee understood the action of the president and the provost regarding the candidates. 
Q: Why is it so difficult to find a qualified candidate? What are the criteria? 
A: It's difficult to find someone to meet the special. needs of the dean's office at Notre Dame. Notre Dame is the leading Catholic university in the nation. Its faculty have high academic standards. The role of dean here calls for a scholar, a teacher, and ah administrator. Religion also plays a part­that is, the candidate's reliJ;~;ious sense. We didn't eliminate non-Catholics from con­
sideration. 
Q: Would you yourself consider applying for the position? 
A: I have not applied so far. It's a possibility, but I really don't know yet. I would definitely like to stay at Notre Dame. 
Q: Notre Dame has run into legal dif­ficulties lately over its low percentage of women in responsible positions. What has your experience been as one of the first women administrators here? 
A: Well, the situation is clearly unbalanced, but that's natural for a university that has only been co-ed for four years and has only had an "integrated" faculty for about seven. This is my third year here and I think the University administration has made a consistent effort to encourage the hiring of women. Of. course, the University has a responsibility to other minority groups, too. The tight job market makes things even more difficult by reducing the number of openings available. Faculty members aee moving around less. Those who have jobs are keeping them. 
Q: Have you had any trouble with the at­titudes of your co-workers? 
A: I have honestly never had problems with the men not taking me seriously. Some women have had problems, but it's an in· dividual situation. I've never had anything but very fine cooperation. 
Notre Dame has been a male-dominated institution for over 100 years and there are some inborn, inbred attitudes which are slow to break down and difficult to get through. But the academic profession as a whole has been dominated by men and I really don't find any more of a problem here than at other universities. 
Last year ten per cent of the faculty of the College of Arts and Letters were women. 
Q: Has the college suffered from the swing toward career-oriented education? 
A: Enrollment in Arts and Letters has dropped only very slightly at Notre Dame. This is due in large part to the increase in the enrollment of women here. The majority of Notre Dame women enroll in the College of Arts and Letter~ 
Q: What about the place of Arts arid Letters in education? How does a degree in an­thropology, for example, compare with the advantages of a degree in business or chemistry? 
A: This whole subject is of great concern to us and will be the topic of a College Advisory Council scheduled for October 2-4. 
I think the advantage of a more IiberaI education is that it prepares one fo· anything, not something in particular. Arts and Letters is not really a professional school, although we do have a pre· professional program and most r.~ (IU graduates in that area do well in law 01 medicine. Generally, though, our gr ..:!~· •1::. prefer a variety of business venlur\lS. "'''''t 
jobs involve a retraining process t.J.at focuses on developing the abilities of tte employee to fit the particular situatit · 
An Arts and Letters education makes one a well-educated person and easily adaptable within one's particular bias. 

the observer 


USAF puts homosexual Sargeant on trial 
HAMPTON, Va. (AP) -The attorney for T. Sgt. Leonard P. Matlovich, an admitted gay, told an Air Force discharge board her Tuesday that the military's historic ban on homosexuals violates their consititutional right to privacy. 
The Air Force regulation calling for automatic discharge of gay servicemen is unlawful because it imposes "the morality of the majority on its employees.," said attorney Susan Hewman. 
Ms. Hewman is one of two American Civil Liberties Union lawyers who are representing Matlovich, 32, who has been decorated during his 12 years in the Air Force, in the hearing that began Tuesday. 
Matlovich himself prompted the hearing at Langley Air Force Base, where he serves as an in­structor in race relations, when he wrote the secretary of the Air Force in March to admit his homosexuality. 

His admission was designed to produce a test of the military regulations that prohibit the retention of homosexuals by the military once their sex deviation is discovered. 
The government contends that the presence of homosexuals in military ranks would hamper recruitment, destroy moreale ad offer foreign agents a chance for blackmail. 
Ms. Hewman asked the discharge board of two majors, two lieutenant colonels and a colenel at the outset of the hearing Tuesday specifically to overturn the Air Force ban on homosexuals. 
Her motion was quickly denied by the board's legal adviser, Col. 
Robert E. Shank, 52, who serves the board in the capacity of a civil­court judge. 
Each of the five officers on the board was closely questioned as to whether he had formed prior opinions in the case. Each said he had not. 
Matlovich, son of an Air Force sergeant, showed little emotion as the hearing -which the Air Force said might last a week -often bogged down on technical issues in its opening hours. 
Now and then, the slender, dark­haired, defendant glanced around teh room at the tiny crowd. At the lunch break he dashed quickly to his car, declining to answer most questions. 
Asked by one newsman whether he thought all homosexuals in the military should make themselves known as he did, he replied: 
Duggan examines .SMC future 
(continued from page I) "I lam convinced that the Sisters of the Holy Cross do not want to run the College," he said, referring to the administration of the school. "They just want to see that the values they believe in are preserved-and I agree with that." In discussing his appointment, Duggan stressed that he did not apply for the position. Rather, the Search Committee was given his name by an administrator from another college. As meetings and interviews in the selection pJocess 
by Cathy Cannon Staff Reporter 
The St. Joseph County Heart Association will sponsor a bike-a­thon to promote physical fitness and to raise money to help fight heart disease on Sunday Oct. 5. 
Sharon Carter, chief fund raiser for the association, said anyone wanting to participate should find sponsors who will agree to donate money for each mile he rides. The rider and the sponsor determine the amount. All donations are tax deductible. 
Riders should report to the Pottawatomi Zoo Parking Lot between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. on Oct. 
5. They can ride the course as many times as they want during this time. 
The course will follow the eight mile city bike route with five check points along the routeto prove that the riders cover the distance. The check points are at the corner of Jefferson and Logan, the corner of Logan and Northside, Veterans Memorial Park, Howard Park and the parking lot of the zoo. Carter said, "The association will award several prizes. The top money raiser in each age group, fifteen and under and sixteen and over, will receive a ten-speed bicycle. The individual in each age group wno rides the most miles will receive a trophy." 
*r-THE~* ~S~DINc~ 


''llfE ALTERNATIVE'' 
. 

ro-.......... 

Day Pocks 
~ forHiking, ~~~~ Biking,and ,_....,., DayTrippift9 or-use as 

a Book Bag. 
STOP FUMBLING THOSE
1
BOOKS l GROCERIES. IOOCENTER 

Mishawaka, IN 465"llll Phone:2Jq/2.5q-S'213 

continued, the total number of president last spring came as a possible candidates for the post unanimous decision of the l;or­narrowed down to five. porate Board of the Sisters Q! the 
When interviewed by the Board Holy Cross. of Regents last fall, Duggan in-r---~-->:------"1 sisted should he be selected for the the observer job, that he should have the power 1-------------t 
to appoi.nt the college vice presidents and that business for the Board of Regents should be channelled through the president, who is a member of that body. He is satisfied that he has the power he needs. 
Duggans's selection as College 







Heart Association sponsors bike-a-thon 
Carter said, "Another ten speed 
Night Editor: Marti Hogan Assistant Night Editor: Chris Smith Layout Staff: Karl lee Clark, Martha Fanning, Jim Stevens, Maureen Flynn Day Editor: Don Reimer Copy Reader: Gregg BangsFeatures: Tom O'Neil Sports: Bob Brink, Bill Brink Typists: Howard Halle, Martha Fanning, Neil Viii, M. Celeste Compugraphic: Martha Fanning Night Controller: Bob Steinmetz Late Typist: Bob Steinmetz Ad Layout: Pat Russell, Mike 
Miller "That's an individual question stay in the Air Force 

they must answer themselves." 
Matlovich has said he isn't in­Matlovich served three tours in terested in becoming a symbol of Vietnam and received the Purple ~>' liberation. Most of all, he has Heart when he was wounded. 

~----------------------r 
81. Geaeral Ston 
-CLOTHING­Uiw.t......eSt. 
MEET 

JOHN Wcx:JBJ 
FORMER COACH -UCLA THURSDAY SEPT. 18th 5-7PM 

COLLEGE SQUARE • MISHAWAKA Across from Town & Country Shopping Center 
PHONE 259-5288 
bicycle will be given away by ·~:=;;;:~;:~;~;~~;;;:;;~;::;;;;~:=========~
drawing on Oct. 24. Each par­
ticipant will receive one chance for every ten dollars he turns in." 
Riders must turn in their money by Oct. 2· to be eligible .for the prizes. The money may be turned in at any branch of the First National Bank or to the Heart Association Office at 1030 Mishawaka Ave. in South Bend. 
Carter added, "Because of successful fund raising last year the American Heart Association was able to grant 25,300 dollars in research funds to Notre Dame. We are directly connected with the university and we do need student support." Students wanting to participate can pick up entry forms and instructions at the Student Activity Office in LaFortune Student Center. 

STUDENT  With presentation of Student ID Card this coupon entitles bearer to  
DISCOUNT Pier 11mports  2Qo/ooff  
Limit 1 coupon per customer  
Offer good until September 30. 1975  







CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
Wanting to be considered in this year's Student Government Budget must pick up a budget form in the Government Offices. 
The form must be completed and returned by Thurs. Sept. 25 
Wednes!ay, September 17, 1975 
the observer 
Interested in becoming a Catholic? 
Discussion group being formed. Call 

ride back Campus Ministry 6536 or drop by theWANTED Need to Madison and 1 will die unless I get 2 Mich. State Furnished apartment. 503 W. Jef­

CLASSIFIED ADS 
office.

weekend of Sept. 19. Call 4672.
Need 5 tickets tor Northwestern ferSon. Dup;ex, 3-rooms, floor gas
tlx. Please call me now at 287-0076. game. Call Mike after 6 P. M. 288-Desperate. heat, furnished. 289-63007 or 234-0596 PRE-LAW and PRE-MED students, Need 7 Northwestern GA ticketsll
(,.)88. send for booklets of all medical or all Will pay top dollar. 288-5207 Need ride to Akron, Ohio or vicinity law schools containing average, tor Thurs. or Fri. Whole upstairs floor, girls only.
Need for returning roommate and Call Nancy 5773. SSO minimum and recofllmended GPA, per month. 283-7579 or 233-1329
wife-2 GA MSU tlx. Will pay almost LSAT and MCAT scores for 1976-77
Need 2 Southern Cal tlx. Call Bob 
top dollar. 234·8952 admittance. Send S2.00 to Pre­
3665. 

I need 3 tix for any home game. Call Professional Advisory, Box 13872,Near NO. Furnished Small Kit-
Wanted: Need two GA tickets to 7187 or 234-6834. Gainesville, Florida 32604. 
chenette. 'apartment.bne male 
Need one NU and 2 MSU tlx. Call MSU game. Call Gary 1802. NOTICES
student. 272-6174 Mary 1285. Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho Wanted: Desperately need as many 232-0746.
Wanted: 2 GA Southern Cal tlx. Call Furnished room. One male. Call
Mary. 6680. 287-1997
as50tix torS. Calif. (no jokell. Call 
Need ride to Columbus, Ohio and Mary 4093. 

QUICK LOANS: Morrissey Loan back weekend Sept. 19. Chris 4343 
Wanted: 2 Ga tix tor Northwestern 
fund. Up to $150. 30 days, 1 percentWanted: 2 GA MSU tickets. Call LOST AND FOUND

game. Evenings 233-3325. 
interest. Basement of La fortune.
277-0014
Michigan State tlx needed. 2 or 

M-F 11:15-12:15. more GA. Will pay$. Charlie 8698 
Need riders to Penn State Sept. 19. Lost: Blue windbreaker with a set of Need 2 tlx to Purdue. Call 7471 Call Chuck 8703. keys In poksh . Call Kevin. 234-8083 
"But you've got to have friends" informatlt:>n write: Gay Students of Badly need 2 GA tlx tor Nor­
Notre Dame; P.O: Box 206 Notre thwestern and Mich. St. Call Mark 
Desperately need 2 Purdue tix. Call Lost: Brown key case Friday night Dame, Ind. 46556272-6086 after 6 P. M. containing about 8 keys. If found 
8651 

need 2 Purdue package tlx. Call call Bob-233-27« 
Will do typing, term papers, Need Tickets: 4 USC, 1 Nor-later 1541. Need 2 GA MSU tix and 1 GA Nor­
manuscripts, themes, etc. Call 233­thwestern, 1 or more Purdue. thwestern ticket. Call Bob 1068. 
8512. Please 'fill Patty 6429 Lost: Pair square, brown glasses 
FOR SALE Need 2 Purdue llx. Call Mike 8106. between Grace and Library. Paul Wanted: Need two Purdue tlx. Call 
1004. 6974. 
Desperately needed: 2 GA tickets 
For ::die: Stereo Con Need 5 tickets for Northwestern tor Northwestern. Will Discuss 
sole(contemporary model) AM. game. Call Mike after 6 P. M. 288-price. Call Lisa at 8089. Electric typewriter In black 
FM Radio. In good conditionPlease. Very badly need Michigan 0088. carrying case misplaced in Summer 

S135.00 or best offer. Call 272-5645
State tickets. Call Vince 8933. 

Needed: 2 tickets to any home storage. Reward. Paul 1384. 
after 3:00. Need Purdue tix. Will pay. Call game. Call 1038. Badly need 2 GA Northwestern fix. 
Scott 1762. Wanted: Purdue Tix. Call Val. 6661. Sunflower Music Shop Vintage 
For Sale: Polaroid 340 camera withCall Don 3374 

stringed instruments. Expert 
flashS50. Hewlett. Packard 45 

Need 1 GA ticket tor MSU game. Riders to Milwaukee. Leave Friday repair. Books, records, and ac­calculator with leather and travelWanted: 2 tlx to N.Western and 2 fix Call Greg 1762. at noon. Return Sunday. Call3388 or cessories. 632 Portage Ave. 
safety cases S250. Inquire 203tor Purdue. Will take 3 riders to 
1715. 
Fisher. Phone 1945.
Purdue. Mrs. Hegner 288-2754 

Free: darling kittens to a good Need 4 tix for Purdue game. Call FOR RI!NT 
home. 6 weeks old. Call 233-8579
Wanted: Part-time driver with 
289-9174. 

after 5 P. M. 
For Sale: Couches, etc. Free

some experience In maintenance If delivery to Campus. Call Mr:.
cars. Good pay, flexible hours. Call PERSONALS Cooper •Iter 6 P. M. or all day Sat.
7417 or come to Student Govt. office. 

Need 2 So. Cal. football tickets. Call 4-bedroom; kitchen, ilvng room, 
and Sur . 272-3004. Jennifer 4261. dining room, basement; all rooms 
Congratulations Dr. Morgan! We'll and kitchen furnished; 1 bathroom, 
take the keg on Saturday. 2D BoysRoommate wanted for NO Apart­Sleep-in night clerk. Part time. shower in the basement; washer, For Se· L: Red shag carpet12'x •ments. Call 288-6533. 
Capital Motel. 272-6262. dryer, and deep freezer; equipped 
S25.or. brr ..vn upholstered ch. with security system; walking 
Are you a turtle? Elect John S20.0· ~fr ·gerator $35.00; coff Desperately need 2 GA tix to So. distance from Notre Dame. You• 
Salveson-SLC Representative. table S?fJ.OO water bed frameNeed 2 Michigan State tickets. Call Cal. game. Will pay $. Call Marc may call after 4 P. M. Phone 23:..­
heater ·'i.OO. Call 234-234-2692~
Mike 1438. 

1789. 71800 
THE PAN PIZZA PARLOI 
BREAK UP THE MIDWEEK MONOTONY ! STAY IN THE DORM AND TAKE CARE OF •. I YOUR HUNGER AT THE SAME TIME 
I I CALL FOR DEEP DISH PIZZA
I 
I 
i

I THE ONLY PIZZA THAT SATISFIE.t
I 4 
I 
'1 
. I



THE ND -SMC COMMUNITY
I I OUR DEEP DISH PIZZA is the only pizza of 
I 
it's kind within 100 miles
I 
t{

I 
I THE PIZZA THE WORLD WOULD YOU BELIEVE A 6/b PIZZA I 
AWAITED

I 
FOR
I JUST CALL FOR THE EATINGI EXPERIENCE OF YOUR LIFE 






FREE DELIVERY
IORDER ANY ICY COLD 8 PACK CALL 
I Of l6oz 7-UP OR PEPSI 
I 277 • 1221 or 277 • 1222 • ,,
•
5pm to Jam

I 
107 DIXIEWAY NORTH -ACROSS FROM RANDALL'S INN 
·-------------------------------------------~ 
-----~------------------------------~ --~~-------------------------------------------------------------------­
8 the observer Wednesday, September 17, 1975 

Brownerbrothers; two here. four more on the way 
by Chip Scanlon by either Jim or Ross. Ross, As big an asset as the Browners Chevrolet's defensive player of the are to Notre Dame, the remaining Some people are able to find game, had seven solo tackles, a brothers, Williard, Joey, Keith and security in "owning a piece of the pair of assists and a key fumble Gerald may be an even bigger plus rock," but Notre Dame fans will recovery when BC was starting to to future Irish teams. Williard a get a great satisfaction out of press in the third quarter. senior at Western Reserve 'in k 'Owing that they've got Jim, a holder of a Black Belt in Warren, Ohio, rushed for 1020 SG rtething even better; a part of karate, brought impressive high yards last year in twelve games tht. Browner Brothers. Right now school statistics with him when he alongside his brother Jim. He the• ~ are two of the six brothers reported for fall practice, in-attributes his running success to attenJing Notre Dame and Irish eluding 1229 yards rushing in his being able to talk with Irish run­enthusiasts can only hope that they senior year. But when Jim took the ning backs on visits to the NO will be blessed with the other four field a against Boston College he campus. "Being able to talk with of Warren Ohio's leading sports didn't worry about his past ac-great players like Eric Penick and family. complishments, his brother Ross, Al Hunter has helped us a lot too," 
When Ross Browner debuted or even the record crowd on hand said Willard, "Eric Penick gave with the Irish he achieved im­at Schaeffer Stadium. "It was me a few tips on running and mediate recognition by blocking a exciting playing in front of all dipping my shoulder that helped Northwestern punt for a safety in those people," the younger this year." the first few minutes of his college Browner remarked, "but I went Back a few years are Joey and career. Jim Browner, not to be out there, tried my best and played Keith, ages 14 and 13, whose upstaged by his older brother, for myself." performances at quarterback and managed to lead the Irish offense He said that he can't be worrying halfback enabled their team to go with 95 yards in rushing as well as about his brothers game, but has to undefeated in 10 games. Another 
The Browner brothers, Ross and Jim, hold the game ball in the locker
making a 12 yard reception and concentrate on his role for the brother Gerry is too heavy at 148 
room after the lri~h victory over Boston College Monday night. Ross
putting six points on the board with Irish. During the game he realized pounds to engage other ten year 
was :--oted defens•ve_player of the game, and Jim gathered 95 yards
a 10 yard run. Boston College had that he was "blowing the other olds on the gridiron, but has been 
rushmg to lead the lnsh offense (Photo by Chris Smith). 
to be wishing that the Browner's · team out," but ilS he said of his 95 biding his time breaking. the ht'd taken up soccer instead of yards rushing "I didn't even know existing home run records in both football as every ime they turned I had that much until after the Warren and Niles, Ohio. around they were being harassed game." With the great contributions Jim 
and Ross have made to IrishTom Krucze~.w:::w::::::-~-=-~ athletics, one can only hope that Mr. Browner gets his with when he 
*Observer 
said of his boys, "Sure we'd like to see them all play college football at
Extra Points 
Notre Dame." It would certainly m&ke a lot of people happy on 
:!db BBBbdB BBBB 98 m 

QuestiOnS and anSWefS Saturday afternoons. 


Sports
Going into Monday night's game against Boston College, there were 
questions that needed to be answered. Two days after the game allows us Women's tennisthe time, where we can divorce ourselves from the emotion of the moment and try to see what kind of answers were given. 
First and probably the most important question on people's minds was squad selected the transition: to a new coaching staff. Dan Devine fared very well in his debut, considering that the first game was on the road. Devine proved by Eileen O'Gradythat he would take chances, as evidenced by his second half gamble to go 
Culveyhouse captures
for it on a fourth down play on the ND 40. He proved that he was willing to substitute freely with the offensive backfield, giving all of the top can-Try-outs for the Notre Dame's dictates a chance to play. And finally Devine handled the pressure he said Women's Tennis Team were held 
ND Open with 274
he didn'tfeel,very well. His comment after the game about pressure gave last Saturday and Sunday. A 14 us some insight into his personality. "I wouldn't have gotten in this woman team was selected through by Tom Kruczek with 288 and Rich Knee a distant business and Iwouldn'thave taken this job if I thought I was going to die a double elimination tournament. fourth with 295. Freshman Tim from pressure before the first game ... But I damn near did in the past Comprising the team will bt Behind four sub-par rounds, Jim Saurs led the first-year playersweek., Dam Amato, Sue Bailey, Ellen Culveyhouse fired a ten-under par with 301, with Mike Donnelly right 
The second most pressing question was the performance of the Callahan, Mary Jo Dushing, Betsy 274 to win the Notre Dame Open. behind at 302. suspended players. Ross Browner, all he did was win the Chevrolet Fallon, Sue Flanigan, Debbie The total at the Burke Memorial Noel O'Sullivan, coach of the golf defensive player of the game while making seven unassisted tackles from Grady, Anne Kelly, Laurie Course broke the old Open record team was mildly surprised with his end spot and showed all of the quickness of a year ago. Willie Fry Reising, Ginger Siafring, Diane of 277 held for 31 years by Jaclt-the excellent scoring over the likewise proved that the year off didn't hurt him. AI Hunter, who said Shillingburg, Carol Simmons, Fitzpatrick, and beat last year'sl 6.445-yard layout. "I am just not afterwards that he could feel the rust wear off in the game, scored one of Mary Shukis, and Sharon Sullivan. winning total of Jeff Burda's by l'firi' familiar with such good scoring. the Irish scores, a 24-yard sweep, part of his 47 total yards in five carries. Of those selected, Sue Bailey, strokes. I'm very ecstatic to have someone Luther Bradley made some excellent tackles from his spot in the Betsy Fallon,. Debbie Grady, CuI v e Y house dis PI aYe d like Culveyhouse come into the defensive secondary. So that is another question answered. Laurie Reising, and Carol Sim-remark a b I e consistencY event and shoot four sub-par 
The running backs spot, one of the most hotly contested positiOnS on the mons were on the team last year. throughout the four rounds, by rounds. Yes, I'd have to say I am team, showed why the competition was so fierce. Jim Browner who Ellen Callahan and Sharon turning scores of 69, 66, 69 and 70. somewhat stunned by the scores. scored the other Irish TD, was the high ground gainer for the Irish with 95 Sullivan also return to the team In the 72-holes, the senior from But it's a great way to start the yards rushing which is the most by freshman in the school's history. after a year abroad. ~er~illville,~nd.carded55pars,14 season." M~r~ McLane looked very impressive, exhibiting power and speed, The team will be coached for the btrdtes a?d J~st 3 bogeys. The regular season will start for gammg 63 yards. Terry Eurick and Russ Kornman also showed moments th. d b ·Car 1 M of Followmg m second place was Notre Dame this weekend when
0
of brilliance·~ Another question taken care of. thlr ~er Y'ct ~ ~re H John Delaney with a one-under par they will face Purdue on Sunday at 
But the last question on ourlist is not so easily dismissed. The quar-as~ist:n~ry coa~:;sme:r~ Jo~~ 283, followed by Paul Koprowski the University South Course. terback position, occupied by Rick Slager leaves the question answered Donahue Joel Goebal and Tom t•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••....••••••••••••& byanot~erq~estion.WhichwastherealRic~Slager?Wasitthefirsth:alf, Haywood. Melissa Roman will :REMEMBER THE fOOD YOU USED • 
one whtch failed to move the team, or was 1t the secondhalf_,;one wh1ch manage the team • • ;f:;;~C:r~~~! ':~~t~~d~:Oo~re:S~!:~~~.; f!~~t1~t~:~~i~~i:~!. Moore is e~cite? about this : TO GET AT FRANKl E'S??? ! to throw, which is coupled with the entire offenses general lack of ex-year's team. "Our roam weakness : : perience. But only time will tell which .of the Slager's is real, and that last year ~as tha~ the team w~s • THAT'S THE SAME FOOD • time is approaching soon in the form of Saturday's confrontation with young and mexper1enc~. But thlS : : Purdue, a very difficult nemesis for thelrish, no matter, to use the old year we have expenence pl~:-YOU GET HERE • cliche what their record is. freshmen who have played a lot m I : In a~y event, Monday night did answer some questions and gave us their high schools. So our • (Dorothy, the cuisine artist with • alook at a team that will come along as the season-progresses. The of-prospects for ~e '75-'76 team look • : 
fense willhaveto get better, be more productive ~nd establish a much verygood. l~inkwe~aveapower: 19 years of gourmet cooking • betterpassingattackortherewillneverbeanythingtofaceotherthanan house team, she sald. • at Frankie's is now at Valerie's : eight-man line on defense. The defense showed that it is capable of The team's first scheduled : cooking the same delicious food} • 
stopping a team, arid remember the Eagles have a very good offensive tournament is a quint match this • : line. Saturday at Ball State. They will : • Nowonlytimewill tell,ifourquestionsareansweredforgood,orifwe play Ball State, DePauw, Indaina .ITALIAN SPECIALTIES ! : 

have to search for new answers to very old and pressing problems. State and Valparaiso. 
ND Sailing Club MAC'S RECORD~ 
meeting tonight $1 off any Allman Bros Album 
The Notre Dame Sailing Club 
(incl. WIN, LOSE moves into the tough fall sailing season with the first major 
DRAW $4.49) otfe 
regatta, the Notre Dame In· tersectionaL Regatta to be held at 

good until Sept 20
Eagle Lake near Edwardsbug, Michigan.

Anyone interested in attending A full service record this week's regatta or simply in­terested ih sailing on any level is 
288. 1178
invited to attend a meeting tonight at 6:30 p.m. in room 303 of the Next to River Park Theater Engineering Building. MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND : 
SPAGHETTI •
1: MOSTACIOLLI 10% discount ·! !. LASAGNA with N.D. 1.0. ! 
• RAVIOLI : : PASTA FAGIOLI UtaHan bean soup) : 
l (Dinners inc. Italian bread & salad) ·! 
: OPEN t BREAKFAST SERVED:
5 0 9

: am pm ANYTIME : : VALERIE'S RESTAURANT 
:• 

801 S. MICHIGAN. SO. BEND : : (NEXT TO GILBERTS) 289 -0681 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• :• 






