
Hesburgh invites Ford to campus 
White House answer by tomorrow: purpose of visit undisclosed 

by Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief 
President Gerald R. Ford has been in­vited to appear at Notre Dame on Monday, March 17 by Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, University President. White House sources said yesterday that an acceptance or refusal would be announced by tomorrow morning. 
A personal letter of invitation from Hesburgh was delivered to Ford while the Notre Dame president was in Washington, D.C.last week, according to a White House spokesman. Both the White House and Hesburgh have refused comment on the purpose of the visit until Ford's personal confirmation is released. 
Rumors about Hesburgh possibly leaving the University to accept a possible Ford appointment were, however, squelched yesterday by Richard Condlin, director of Information Services. 
"If the President does accept the in­
vitation to visit Notre Dame, this would not 
indicate any change in office by Fr. 
Hesburgh or any other officer of the 
University," Conklin said. 
Conklin confirmed that an advance team 
from the White House was on campus last 
week checking the physical facilities. A 
tentative schedule was also discussed with 
a group of ten administrators. He declined 
to identify the administrators involved in 
the planning until definite plans are an­
nounced. 
According to the tentative schedule of 

events discussed, Conklin said, Ford would 
be on campus for one day only. He would 
not speculate on the 'schedule of events' or 
possible locations of events any further 
than saying the University would be in­
volved in some of them. 
"At this point, everyone is under the 
same information embargo that I am," 
Conklin said. 
Joseph Sassano, assistant director of the 
Athletic and Convocation Center, said 
yesterday that according to the schedule 
the main arena has not yet been reserved. 
If the visit is confirmed, Ford's St. ·Patrick's Day appearance at Notre Dame 
would be the third made by a U.S. 
president while in office. Franklin D. 
Roosevelt came to campus on Dec. 9, 1935 
for a special convocation on Filipino In­
dependence In June, 1960, Dwight 
Eisenhower came to campus for 
graduation ceremonies. 
President Ford would be the fourth man 
who has served as President that Fr. 
Hesburgh has personally welcomed to the 
campus during his 23-year tenure. Besides 
Eisenhower's visit, Hesburgh presented to 
both John Kennedy and Richard Nixon the 
University's Patriot of the Year award. 
Kennedy received the award in 1956 and 
Nixon in 1960. 
Kennedy had intended to visit Notre 
Dame during his term for a football game. 
His appearance was cancelled due to the 
eruption of the Cuban Missile Crisis that 
weekend. 




server 

university of notre dame -st. mary's college
Vol. IX, No. 98 Tuesday, March 11, 1975 
Lack of quorum stops SLC committee action 
By Virginia McGowan Starr Reporter 
A proposal to decrease the size of the SLC to five members each from the student body, the faculty, and the ad­ministration was presented at the SLC meeting yesterday afternoon by Dennis Sullivan, chairperson of the committee on the future of the council. 
The SLC was unable to vote on the committee recommendations for lack of a quorum. A straw vote of those present showed ten in favor of no change, seven in favor of a decrese in size, and one ab­stention. 
Based on a proposal by Frank Flanagan, SLC chairman, the committee had previously discussed five alternatives regarding the size of the Council before reaching a compromise with the 5-5-5 devision. 
"On the surface the Council may appear as a concerned and attentive group," stated Flanagan in his report to the committee, "but this is hardly the case when you consider there are emembers 
who  have  missed  eight  of  eleven  
meetings.''  
He  cited  poor  attendance  and  a  

lackadaisical attitude demonstrated by some members as resulting in disillusionment of the Council as a whole. 
According to Flanagan, "If changes aren't made now then the Council might as well die." Flanagan theorized that a decrease in size from the present 24 members to 15 would "make it a lot easier to work as a smaller group and enable more non-SLC participants to make suggestions." 
"For example, today everyone knew this was an important meeting and yet we failed to have a quorum," asserted Flanagan, "which speaks in favor of decreasing the number of members." 
In response to a suggestion that the SLC dismiss the chronic absentees and appoint new SLC members, Flanagan retorted that they had had a hard enough time getting students to run in the first place, and replacements were apt to be in even scarcer supply. He stressed that the decrease in size would be accompanied by an increase in highly-motivated members. 
Sullivan also advocated the proposed decrease, stating, "the proosal itself gives diversity and is also more efficient than the present number." He added, "I think it would increase the effect of the SLC and give the new life that is needed right now." 
Counter-arguementswere based on the premise that reduction in the Council size would limite the variety of views offered by more members. 
"I voted for not changing on the basis that the present policy gives a wider representation of the campus," said Paul Conway. finance professor. 
"With more people there's a greater diversity of opinion," he continued, "while in the smaller group you'll get greater power." 
In .ND-SMC teams 
Other committee recommendations met with a minimum of discussion or debate. The SLC opened with a clarification of its statement of purpose, which reaffirms its legislative duty to establish rules gover­ning student life and provide for their enforcement a judicial system which protects student rights. 
Fr. Carl Ebey, Fisher Hall rector and Internal Auditor, who vetoed for no change , did not think any valid arguments were presented that would justify a decrease. 
Committee recommendations continued with a suggestion that the SLC Steering · Committee become more active by identifying and then assigning vital issues affecting student life to appropriate committees. 
SLC Standing Committees were strongly encouraged to rpomote participation by non-SLC members in the future. 
The Commitee advised the selection of a parliamentarian in order to conduct SLC meetings according to parliamentary procedure. 
It was also noted that, since SLC bylaws have not been changed since 1968, any change in the SLC should be reflected in the bylaws. 



Women's sports growing apart 
by Christie Herlihy 
Staff Reporter 

Women's opportunities in sports are increasing and, as new programs are considered, the Notre Dame and St. Mary's sports departments lean towards developing them separately. 
Dominick Napolitano, director of non­varsity sports at Notre Dame, commented that at the last meeting of the Athletic Department and Board of Directors it was decided to permit the sharing of certain women club sports since St. Mary's students were already on the teams. "We decided for the time being and for next year to allow them to operate in ajoint capacity," he stated. 
Women's intercollegiate tennis, golf, and basketball porgrams are offered by both schools and will remain separate. Napolitano added that any new additions to the ND women's sports program will be restricted to ND students while sailing, skiing, fencing, and crew will reamin open to both campuses. 
"Right now the clubs are not talking about varsity," Napolitano said, "but eventually when they achieve the necessary quality, and of course such standards will have to be set, women's varsity teams will become a reality," he added. 

Varsity sports Cltffer from club status in the amount of financial support given by the university, the provision for a coach, and in the keenness of the intercollegiate competition. 
Napolitano cited the lack of facilities as the main reason why St. Mary's and Notre Dame have joined in certain club sports. Sailing and crew equipment are providec by Notre Dame while the fencing team uses the ACC. 
St. Mary's offers six club sports which it terms "varsity": golf, basketball, gymnastics, tennis, fencing, and swim­ming. Asked if Notre Dame women may participate on St. Mary's "varsity" teams or intra-murals, Wernig replied, "I'm waiting for a statement which will be issued jointly from the Notre Dame and St. Mary's sports departments in two weeks." 
She added that currently Notre Dame women are welcomed to enter any St. Mary's sports programs which are not offered on the ND campus. 
Notre Dame donates $700 to the treasury of each of the sports clubs while St. Mary's contributes proportionally to the number of its participants on Nore Dame teams. "St. Mary's contril:>utes from $100-$150 towards the minor trips of the joint clubs. They have done it this year and in the past and will continue in the future," Napolitano said. 
While St. Mary's looks forward to 
developing a sports program in its new 
gym, Notre Dame is concentrating on 
improving communication with itw own 
female contingency. 

Monster or hero? 
world briefs 

CHICAGO (UPI)-Two sets ofl medical researchers reported Monday that vitamin C will not prevent or cure the common cold. One group said the effects of ascorbid acid vitamin C on the 
number of  colds  "seems to  be  
nil."  
WASHINGTON  (UPI)  - Sen.  

Henry M. Jackson completed plans Monday on a S12 million budget to carry his presidential compaign through next year's Democratic primaries. 
Jackson outlined the early stages of his drive for the Democratic nomination at a private two-day meeting held over the weekend for nearly 50 key Jackson supporters and fundraisers from around the country. 
LOS ANGELES (UPI)-Linda McCarntey, wife of former Beatie Paul McCartney, waived arraignment Monday and was ordered to return to court April 7 for a preliminary hearing ona a misdemeanor charge of possessing marijuana. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Vice President Nelson A. Rockefeller Monday refused to discuss whether his commission in­vestigating the CIA will look into charges the agency plotted assassinations of foregin of­ficials. 
Rockefeller said the com­mission is restricting its in­vestigation to alleged illegal domestic activities of the CIA. 
INDIANAPOLIS, IND. (UPI) -The Indiana Senate late Monday defeated, 27-21, the proposed ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. 
an campus today 
2:30 pm .. finance forum, "emerging markets for securities.'' lib. aud. 
3:30 pm .. computer course, "advanced topics In assem­bler.'' 113 comp. center 
7 pm --lecture, "solubility of petroleum in water and Its significance to petroleum migration.'' 101 earth sci. bldg. 
7, 9, & II pm .. film, 
"scarecrow,'' eng. aud. 
7 pm .. meeting, chess club, 227 
math bldg 
7:15 pm .. mass, holy cross hall chapel 
7:30 pm .. lecture, lntro. to tm, lib aud 
7:30-9:30 pm --dance faculty lessons, Iafortune ballroom 
a pm .. boxing, bengal bouts, $2 
res., $1 ga, ace 
9 pm .. meeting, fellowship of 
christian athletes, featuring 
mike me coy, st. ed's chapel 

Count Dracula legend unearthed 
by Valerie Zurblis 
Staff Reporter Dracula. A fiendish monster who sucks blood from helpless victims or a national hero who indulges in the gruesome art of impalement? This was the topic of a lecture given last night by 

Professor Radu  Floresco  of  the  
Boston  College  History  Depart­ 
ment.  

In a packed Washington Hall, Floresco explained that the Rumanian king "Vlad the 1m­

Program outlined 
his ruling years. The total
Irish-bound sophs to meet­
All sophomores who are prospective English majors and who are interested in a junior year of study in Ireland are asked to meet with Professor Donald Sniegowski, director of un­dergraduate studies, Wednesday evening, March 12, at 7 p.m. in Room 210, O'Shaughnessy Hall. 

Under the department's Irish Studies Program, selected students spend the junior year at the School of Irish Studies in Dublin. The faculty of the school is drawn primarily from 
University  College  Dublin  and  
Trinity College Dubli n.  
Students  take  the  usual  five­ 

course program each semester 
Seniors who have not yet picked up their Senior Formal bids may still do so between noon and 1 pm Tuesday through Thursday at the 
Senior  Class  Office  in  the  
basement  of  LaFortune  Student  
Center.  

Joe Henderlong, chairman of the party committee. stated yesterday that 165 couples have secured bids for the dinner and dance while an additional 65 couples have bought dance tickets. 
The formal will be held Satur­day, March 15 at the Elkhart Holiday Inn. The dinner will begin at 7 p.m. and the dance will last from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. in ·the Concord Lexington Ballroom. 
Henderlong noted that 31 couples have not yet picked up their tickets and that all bids left outstanding after Thursday will be considered cancelled. The $10 deposit is non­refundable, he added. 
"We're very satisfied with the ticket sales," Henderlong reported. "ThP. Holiday Inn 
The Observer is publiShed dally during the college semester except vacations by the stuaents of the University of Notre Dame .nd St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor $9 per semester ($16 per year) from The Observer Elox' Q, Notre Dame, Indiana ~6556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
~6556. 

A.C.C. ICE RINK PRO-SHOP 
END OF THE SEASON CLEARANCE SALE 
-all hockey & figure skating equipment at discount prices 
LIMITED STOCK! 
TAKE ADVANTAGE NOW 
HRS: NOON-10 p.m. DAILY 8 a.m.-1 0 p.m. SAT. & Sun. 
paler" and the vampire legend "George Wasilington" of 
were combined by Bram Stoker, Rumania. Dracula had defended 
an 18th century writer. The name the nation with valor against a 
Dracula evolved from the Turkish invasion in the 15th cen­
Rumanian word "dracul", which tury against overwhelming odds 
translates as "son of the Devil." and the small country has never 
Pamphlets and stories and been under serious attack since. 
American Bela Lugosi movies Floresco had never heard of the 
expanded the tale until today's popular neck-biting Dracula until 
version of the eerie Dracula he came to the United States and 
resulted. read Bram Stoker's Dracula. 
Floresco, a Transylvanian Intrigued with the legend, he native, was brought up to believe also came across medieval that Count Dracula was the documents telling of Vlad Tepes gory ~astime of impalement, or putting stakes through human entrails in various ways. The king killed 100,000 people during six of 
population of the country at the time was just 500,000. "This manwith courses offered in the areas of 
killed more people in a shorterIrish Literature, history, politics, period of time than almost anyand archaelogy. Those who other tyrnat in history," saidqualify may take two one-semester Floresco. 
courses in creative writing. All Professor Raymond McNally a courses taken are accredited by soviet economist became a 
Notre Dame and can fulfill college colleagueof Floresco when he came 
and departmental requirements, across some medieval documents 
where applicable. 

written in Russian and 19 stories 
Students are requested to live coincided with the German ver­with an Irish family during the sion-the basic themes, scenes of year in Ireland and have the op­impalement and other horrors. It portunity for side trips to points of was then that Floresco earnestly started studying the vampire legends. 
Floresco and McNally traveled to Transylvania and discovered most peasants still believed in vampires and knew of Dracula and his crimes. 
It was Bram Stoker's own doing that Dracula stories are alive today. The Transylvanian­accented professor is convinced that Stoker did research on his novel though he never set foot in 
· Transylvania, so his fiction is based on fact. 
Floresco hypothesizes that Stoker drew parallels between the Transylvanian area, Vlad's residence and the vampire myths. Also there is a symbolic connection between Vlad's impalements and the killing of a vampire by putting a stake through the heart. · 
Although Dracula has been translated into many languages, it is not available in Rumanian. In fact. it is not allowed in the country, just as no Dracula movies are allowed. The President of Humania wants to keep the traditions separate in the country. He doesn't want any defacing of the national hero. 
Senior ball bids mustbe 
Government Offices (2nd floor LaFortune)

picked up by Thursday 
interest in Ireland. Total cost for tuition, room and 
TAX ASSISTANCE PROGRAM 
board will be approximately $3825 for those students who are selected 
for free help with your
by the department. 

TAX RETURNS, stop by the Student 
originally planned to give us 
MONDAYS 1:30-4:30 

room for 400 persons, but with 460 people planning on coming, they 
THURSDAYS 2:30-4:30 

are going to add the dining area 
and the pool area." The Holiday Inn lounge 
live entertainment, will be open until 3 a.m. Formal dress is op­tional, Henderlong said. 
Gingiss Formal Wear, located at 1622 Mishawaka Avenue, is of­fering a 10 percent discount to Notre Dame students for the af­fair. 
Students driving to the formal should take the Toll Road east to the Elkhart exit, turn left to U.S. 19 
South and drive three blocks to the Holiday Inn, Henderlong said. 
Henderlong added that students without transportation to the party should contact him at 234-1673 or Vicki Allen at 283-7991. 
campus view 
A NEW APARTMENT COM­
MUNITY DEVELOPED FOR THE STUDENTS, OF NOTRE DAME & SAINT MARY'S. CAMPUS VIEW IS SET IN A WOODED SURROUNDING YET IS ONLY 
3 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME. LOCATED'JUST ONE BLOCK NORTH OF· STATE. RD. 23 OFF OF WILLIS'RD. 
7 Stylists Full Time Manicurist Full Service Salon 
Edison & St. Rd. 23 
For Appt. 272-7222 
FOR 
MEN 



CAMPUS 
VIEW Q\JE and n\0 B8JROOM RJRNISHED APARTMENTS 
it:  COMMUNITY BUILDING  
it:  INDOOR SWIMMING POOL  
it:  BASKETBALL COURT  
it:  SHAG CARPET  
it:  2 BATHS IN 2 BEDROOM APT  
it:  ALL APPLIANCES COLOR  
COORDINATED  
it:  SECURITY  
it:  SOUND CONDITIONED  
it:  PRIVACY  


NOW RENTING FOR FALL SEMESTER ( '75 -'76 SCHOOL YEAR ) 
FOR RENTAL INFORMATION PHONE 272-1441 

, Tuesday, March 11, 1975 the observer 
Calendar change is still possible 
responding opposed the calendar currently The persons to be polled today will be the Morelli noted there are two majorby Ken Bradford 
Staff Reporter planned for the 1975-76 school year. same persons polled by the earlier Student arguments against the calendar currently "We're ~unning out of time. This is the Government computerized poll. The poll · accepted by the Academic Council. "First
The 1975-76 academic calendar can still last possible chance for students and will ask the interviewee to chose between of all, their break does not make itbe changed if students support us, Grace faculty_ members who want a change," the calendar currently accepted for next economically feasible for students to goresidents Bill Scheible and Pete Morelli Morelh stated. "If we don't act now, then year and the Scheible-Morelli alternative home for the Thanksgiving break," hestated yesterday. 
the administration has nothing to go on calendar. added. Scheible noted that a four-dayWith the help of Student Government except to believe that they were right in The alternative calendar has been en-break for students living far from campusand student volunteers, Scheible and the first place." dorsed by newly elelcted SBP and \SBVP. wouldberendered worthless by two days ofMorelli will conduct a poll of six-hundred travel.
Present Official University Calendar: Morelli-Scheihle Calendar:students and faculty members tonight to ! ·Secondly, the September 3 start woulddetermine if there is sufficient support for Aug. 30-31-Sept. 1 Sat. thru Mon. Orien-Aug. 29, 30, 31 Fri. (evening) thru Sun. 
force students to travel on Labor Day.

an alternative calendar. tation for new students. (morning) Orientation for new students. 
To reopen the calendar issue, tenThe popularity of the alternative has Sept. 2 Tues. Registration for all students. Aug. 31 Sun. Registration for all students members of the Academic Council mustalready been tested in preliminary polls Sept. 3 Wed. Classes begin at 8:00 a.m. Sept. 1 Mon. Classes begin 8:00 a.m. 

sign a petition requesting a new meeting.

in Grace and Farley Halls. In these two Nov. 26 Wed. Thanksgiving holiday begins Nov. 21 Fri. Thanksgiving Holiday begins Students wishing to help conduct thehalls, the alternative calendar, which at 12:30 after last class. 
telephone poll are requested to call Morelli features a Labor Day start and a week­Dec. 1 Mon. Classes resume at 8:00 Dec. 1 Mon. Classes resume at 8:00 a.m. 

at 1655 or Scheible at 8251. Persons wholong break at Thanksgiving; was favored Dec. 12 Fri. Last class day. Dec. 12 Fri. Last class day. 

expect to be called in the survey and do not over a field of two other alternative Dec. 13-14 Sat. & Sun. Study days (no Dec. 13-14 Sat. & Sun. Study days (no wish to wait for the interviewers to callcalendars. Also, the preliminary poll exams) exams) them can register their opinions at 7668showed that 98 per cent of the students Dec. 15-20 Mon.-Sat. (noon) EXAMS Dec. 15-20 Mon.-Sat. (noon) EXAMS. 

after 6 p.m. 

Campus School to be used 
SMC to relocate services, offices for '15-'16 
also. we use the Cline-Morris facility for paced learning, the nursing the psychology lab into some kind by Pattie Cooney nursing classrooms, seminar library, seminar rooms and of­of statistic lab in Madeleva where
In the past, the Campus School
Contributing Editor rooms. audio-tutorial labs, a mock­fices," said Dr. Mary Martucci, the Nursing Department is now,"
was leased to the· South Bend
At a meeting two weeks ago, the up lab and relocation of old stored. Chairman of the Nursing commented Kennedy.
School Corporation, which did not
St. Mary's Board of Regents ap­bound periodicals," Kennedy Department.
renew its lease for next year. "The Health Services change
proved the allocation of monies to explained. "Currently the older
relocation of the Day Care Center "However, none of these plans
rent the Cline-Morris Campus bound periodicals are stored in the The allocation committee is also 
will restore the Clubhouse to the are definite as far as I know and
School from the Sisters of the Holy basement of Regina and it is not planning the relocation of the
students and faculty," stated 
I amexpecting official notification
Cross. Sr. Francesca Kennedy, easy for students to get access to Health Services from third floor Le 
Kennedy. 
soon," she added. The audio­
chairman of the Space Allocation them if they need them for a paper Mans to the basement of Holy
tutoriallab would be equipped with 
Committee. announced that the "In renting the Campus School the next day; by moving them to Cross. The PDEP program is
audio visual materials, study
Day Care Center currently located from the Sisters, we will have an the school building the periodicals currently located in the basement
carrels and other research sup­
in the Clubhouse will move to the arrangement similar to the lease will be more accessible," she of Holy Cross, but is leaving the
plies.
school building along with the we have for Regina Hall," stated continued. campus after this spring. kindergarten and Nursing Dr. William Hickey, acting Computers to Madeleva president of St. Mary's College, in "If our facilities are moved to "We are also talking about "By moving the Health Services 
Department. Old bound an interview two weeks ago. the Campus School, we hope to to Holy Cross we are expanding
moving the computer terminals to
periodicals currently housed in the have a mock-up lab there, which from a six-bed infirmary to an
the basement of Madeleva when
basement of Regina will be Nursing r~located will be like a simulated hospital eight-bed infirmary, with a
the Nursing Department moves to
relocated to the Campus School "It has been recommended that room, an audio-tutorial lab for self separate doctor's office, nurse's
the Campus School. In addition we office and two examining rooms, are thinking of combining the instead of a curtained-Qff
First nun recipient busin~ss computer facilities with (continu<.>d on page 7) 
ND Laetare Medal is awarded 
Sister Ann Ida Gannon, B.V.M., St. Louis University. She taught in reaches working adulty through its president of Mundelein College in Chicago's St. Mary's High School innovative Weekend College in Chicago, has been chosen the first before joining Mundelein's Residence. Under her ad­nun to receive the Laetare Medal, Department of Philosophy as 
minsitration. Mundelein built a the University of Notre Dame's chairman in 1951. She assumed the 
$4.5 million Learning Resource highest honor. presidency of the College six years 
Center, two dormitories, and a The choice of the well-known later and announced her upcoming student center. She has been 
college administrator, who will resignation last month. awarded honorary degrees from 10 retire from Mundelein's Mundelein's president served as institutions, including some under presidency this June after 18 chairman of the American Council 
Catholic. Protestant and Jewish years. was announced Saturday on Education last year and headed auspices. <March 8> by Fr. Theodore M. the Association of American Hesburgh. president of Notre Colleges in 1972. She has also been Dame. "In selecting a active in several other educational distinguished educator such as organizations and was recently Sister Ann Ida," Hesburgh com­named among the top 44 mented, "we honor a woman educational leaders in the nation in 
whose professional achievement a survey conducted by Change has gone hand-in-hand with her magazine. religious commitment and whose Active in extending the role of 
life has exemplified the service of women in society, she served on women religious to society and to the President's Task Force on the Church." Women's Rights and Respon­
Notre Dame's Laetare Medal sibilities in 1969 as well as on the has been given annually since 1883 Illinois Commission on the Status to outstanding American of Women. ­
Catholics, but only lay persons 
At Mundelein, she began new 
were eligible for the award until 
continuing education programs to 
1968. While Sr. Ann Ida is the first 
serve the needs of mature women, 
nun to be honored, she is the 
and the North Side college now 
twentieth woman among the 94 recipients and joins Dr. George N. Shuster, the 1960 medalist and 
STUDENT UNION PRESENTS former president of Hunter College in New York City, as only the second educator to receive the 
AL PACINO
honor. Generally regarded as the most 
AND

significant annual award con­ferred upon Catholics in the United States, the Laetare Medal consists 
GENE HACKMAN
of a solid gold disc suspended from a gold bar bearing the inscription, "Laetare Medal." Inscribed in a 
IN 

border around the disc are the words, "Magna est veritas et prevalebit" <Truth is might and will prevail l. The center design of 
SCARECROW
the medal and the inscription on the reverse side are fashioned according to the profession of the recipient. 
TUES & WED 7, 9, 11 pm 
A member of the Sisters of Charity of the Blessed Virgin Mary since 1932, Sr. Ann Ida received 
MARCH 11 & 12 $1 
her bachelor's degree from Clarke College, Dubuque, Iowa, her master's degree in English from 
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM 
Loyola University <Chicago), and 

her doctorate in philosophy from ._-------------------------....1 
N 0 W APPEARING 
SKIP VAN W_INKLE AND LISTEN 


~Shu/a~
NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS o~ U.S. 31 Mtwee~ llin. So. l111d-Fr• Plrkin&-61~350 


NIGHT. 
'_/' 
GOOD 
TICKETS STILL AVAILABLE 
~~The Observer ·..,. a, on independent student newspaper Founded November 3, 1966 Tom Drape Editor-in-Chief Bob Zogas Businen Manager Bob McManus Advertising Manager EDITORIAL BOARD Terrv Ke~ney, News Editor: AI Rutherford, Managing Editor; Fred Graver, Editorial Editor Jeanne Murphy, Copy Editor; Robert Baker, Features Editor; Greg Corgan, Sports Editor Mary Janca, St. Mary's Editor: Chris Smith, Photo Editor; Bill Brink, Senior Night Editor Jirn Eder, Ann MeCarry, Pattie Cooney, Zenon Bidzinskl, Marlene Zloza, Contributing Editors Editori;ols; 283-8661 News: 28J.J715 Business: 283-7471  
Tuesday, MBrch 11, 19751  

r 
r r 
r 
P.O. Box Q 
Rating The Ratings 

Dear Editor: 
The incident of rating women in the dining hall seems to be a reflection of the general chauvinistic attitude many Notre Dame men display toward women. 
The immaturity in this matter lies not with the women who were upset by it, but rather with the boys who dreamnt up this "practical joke." This is the kind of thing one could expect in a 4th grade lunch room, where the main concern of the children is not to catch the opposite sex's Kutee germs. If the boys who played this "practical joke" would like to practice writing the number 1-6, or drawing joke cards, I'm sure the "Happy Day Care Center," would be glad to educate them with the rest of the 3 and 4 year olds. Just imagine them sitting there flashing their cards, and having a gay old time with the kids, rather than disturbing and insulting their peers. 
Many people are very sensitive to other people's reactions to themselves, and are hurt by a negative response, regardless of whether it was intended as a joke or not. The practical joke played in the dining hall is on the level of telling Helen Keller jokes to a person who is both blind and deaf. You may think the joke is funny, IJut how funny is it to someone who can neither hear nor see? 
It is not up to the boys who played this "joke" to decide whether other people should take it seriously or not. People are en­titled to respect and if you cannot respect other people's feelings, then you do not belong near people, and should become a recluse. 
Some jokes are funny and some are not. This one was definitely not funny. 
Sincerely, Marirose Lescher 

Dear Editor: 
When does the joking end and a comprehension of the cold hard reality begin? I appreciate the fact thatthe "rating contest" which took place at the South Dining Hall on Feb. 27 was not in itself meant to demean the women of Notre Dame. But this event only further reinforces the generally accepted rating system that women have been reduced to for centuries. To be reminded of this fact over dinner is not much less than nauseating. 
DOONESBURY 
More people are becoming aware of the position of women in society. But a woman's way is by no means paved. Unless women do stand up like the few Notre Dame women and refuse to besubjected to this treatment these practices and the ideals that go with them will not change. To call this initiative immature is a shallow analysis of the situation. It is encouraging that the University did take action. The fact that the students did not recognize this insolence is not so reassuring. 
I am a St. Mary's student so I cannot fully appreciate the male­female situation at Notre Dame. But being female _ I know first hand that it is hard to 

laugh  when  one  is  not  being  
tickled.  
Sincerely,  

Rosemary Gill 
Bizarre Microcosm 

Dear Editor: 
Besides Notre Dame University, the letters "NDU" could ap­propriately stand for Negro Diversification Union. 
Negro ("knee-grow") because a considerable number of black students attending this university appear to prefer an identity somewhat less related to the "common" Afro-American. 
Diversification because it seems to be an express purpose of this university to induce indifference among black students. Almost unbelievable is that of all 126 black students our origination can be from such conflicting social confines. A few of us are poor, a few wealthy, a few middle class, a few of us come from "lily-white" number one high schools others from all black, a few of us are athletes a few scholars. A few of ourfamiliesconditioned us to retain and revive black traditions others promoted imitation of and assimilation with whites stifling social contact with other blacks. 
llnion becauseit'snecessary that university administrators condone this diversification and deprivation; without active sup­port this collage could not exist. In a cognizant effort to avoid con­frontation the university has created a bizarre microcosm 
diverting black's responses to frustration toward each instead of toward the actual perpetrator. 
An article in the March 6, Ob­server quoted Fr. Schlaver as saying, "The type of black 
ta:l<;' MR. ffAcART/1//R, ca/tl} 
Yttlvt.5T-5/{(//1/h'IM m£SC t.AT-­
tsrRtfrJRT5?! IFliE !XJ13N'T RNIJ~~MEIJIC4tSIPPU£S saw, PE (J)(IUJ HAVE A RE/11.. P(J[Jt/C HEAlTH HER£/ 
/ 

student we are getting now (at N.D.) is less concerned with the black movement and a separatist philosophy." Fr. Schlaver placed partial blame for the decline in use of the Black Cultural Arts Center on this "change" in black students. 
Ironically this article was printed in the Observer Insight section. If the article lacked anything it lacked insight. Most obvious was its blatant negligence to mention the fact that black students don't just attend Notre Dame; we are processed, screened, chosen, St'lected 1 If there has been any change its been in the type of blac~ student allowed to attend Notre Dame. 
In this selection of black students we have been homogenized for one characteristic. We all exhibit a blemishless "good kid" record. We are in a predicament where people say "you can ask anyone, he's a hell-uv-a-good guy." 
Observer Insight also failed to observe or sight that there are now fewer blacks at Notre Dame to utilize the Cultural Arts Center not to mention a greater percentage living ofh~ampus. 
Aaron Watson 
Election Lamentation 

Dear Editor: 
Once again, the debacle known as "SBP-SBVP" elections is over. One can only thank God for that. And ,once again-as has been their custom in three of my four years here-the student body has made the wrong choke. 
After being a witness to the conceited, supercilious and even pompous manner of our SBP~lect, I can only wish him and the Student Body good luck. I'm sure that Burtchaell, the Board of Trustees, and whoever else he has to deal with will be quite impressed by it. When something im­portant-like a calendar con­troversy-arises, I hope that when his position is assailed or even mildly questioned that he can put his facial muscles to work as well as he did during his Keenan debate, showing by the mature manner in which he grimaces that, if nothing else, he is a serious contender for the Emmet Kelly look alike contest-thus adding to the administration belief that Student Government is en­tertaining but incompetent and ineffective. 
Sincerely, Dennis J. Dziemiznowicz 

averseas 


Spring In Angers 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiipet e r h. k a r t h 
Friends, lovers, and assorted strangers at Notre Dame· we are coming. At last the word is out. Some of us will begin the iong sail home on June 19; others, more impatient, will fly to you on June 10. Of course, the most of you won't s~ us before September, anyways, but at least you can breathe a sigh of relief and know· we are coming. ' 
We never dreamt that it would come this soon nor this fast. S_pring has hit Angers, in every way that Spring can' hit-a veritable right ~ook to the heart. (A special hello to all you lovers! ) It's gone right to my head, even as I sit here. And I'm not the only one! The only o~e sitting here, yes; but Spring! Why, tomorrow a large congregatiOn of SUNDEF is going on a 28 kilometer moby ride to play softball. And, of course, the ever-present phenomenon the Picnic. What joy. ' 
The students are still working very hard, however. Just this mo~ning we ~ot together to work on our own little yearbook. Trymg to decide a theme...we dismissed "Agony & Ecstacy " ~ven "Ago~y & Ag.ony." It just can't be put that simply. The be~t 1dea so far ts the simple caption "Some of Us Don't." This can be used in many ways...some of us go to classes, some of us don't; s?me of ':Is speak French, some of us don't; some of us go home at mght, e.nJOY our classes, drink a lot of wine, go to church on Sunday, get mail from friends at ND, et cetera, et cetera and some of us don't. This suggestion has been more or less dis~issed, not for its highly controversial apsects, as you might expect, but for its rather pessimistic overtones. And the year in Angers hardly deserves that. 
My goodness...where else could you get a theology course slotted at 8:30 Monday morning taught by a professor who speaks in the Passe Simple? Or an Institutions Publiques class taught by the grandson of Alexander "the Three Mousquetaires" Dumas? The opportunities are endless. And not only that: we have no classes on Thursday afternoons. Now can you beat them apples? 
I think it's clear by now that Spring has made me light verging on empty headed. But I love it. I remember springing about the Notre Dame campus in Spring. I think it came a bit later...but I do remember it. We all remember it even if we never hear from anybody there. <hint 2) but I don't need to tell you about your upcoming change of seasons-you'll see for yourself. So: What is Spring in Angers? 
It means a change in all the flower beds; and they are many. Both the beds and the changes. (Not so with our sheets, however­we do our own laundry over here.) The sky is also blue. This was something we got a kick out of last Fall, and are sort of glad to see return. And so many other little things .. .like the upcoming Easter vacation! We'll profit from that. How does Greece sound? A few travel-happy individuals are talking about it. Not everyone.. .few of us speak Greek. <Try and tell that to our French teachers!) Some of us will settle for Spain or England, or even both-and Greece! You'd be amazed how much you can see whiz by in 17 days. Or even longer...some of us come back from vacations on time, some of us don't. 
Myself, I'm going to go the Isles and walk on the moors pretending I was created by Charles Dickens. <Who knows, mayb~ I_ was. l We all have our personal fantasies to indulge, or dreams to hve, depending on how you want to look at it. That's why some of us will travel to Rome and bless the crowds...and others to Am­sterdam to bless the Heineken. We all turn religious when travelling; fervently praying that the customs man won't find that candy bar and those three cigarettes. Chances are he won't~ven if he does wake us up. Oh the excitement of international trade. 
We get visits these days from Innsbruck people...we're sort of '<;ed to it now. What I'm waiting for is some well-worn voyager 110m Mexico City...or better yet, Japan. That would be something. Almost as good as a letter from a friend at ND (3). 
Really, we're happy. Got paid on Wednesday...had a cocktail party, went out to dinner. Today is Friday, we're eating at the RU. Notre Dame pays us enough, but with oour'lack debts it sort of got eaten up-rapidly. A RU meal only costs 50 cents, and you can't get even a rue meal for that much. Or for that little. 
Oh! Anabel just stopped by and of course that reminded me of the St. Ma~y's commu.nity-not that I had forgotten, but I did neg!ect to deh_ver a. special hello. Hello-a special one. Too bad I can t expr~ss 1t more eloquently. There are five young ladies from SMC sharmg SUNDEF with us ...we like them. One of them, formerly known as Sue, is now referred to as "SMC." See what loyalty? 
At any rate, so much for Spring in the Loire Valley. And so much for our thoughts of you-for the present moment, at least, and rest assured, no longer. And by the way-write. 
the observer 
Night Editor: Dan Sanchez Asst. Night Editor: Mary Janca Layout Staff: Maureen Sajbel, Tom O'Neil, Gregg Bangs, Bob Brink, Martha Fanning Day Editor: Bob Radziewicz 
Copy Reader: Ken Bradford Editorials: John Amantea Sports: Bill Brink Typists: Janet Carney, Anne Peeler, Barb Norcross, Karen Hinks, Mary Ann Corr 
Compugraphic: Chip Spina Night Controllers: Howard Halle & Tim Murphy Picture Screener: Albert Ad Layout: Tom Whelan 

Tuesd_ay, March 11, 1975 the observer 
5 


unger responsibility discussed 
three University whether or has a moral 
in a panel 
Economics Basil 

a moderator, cited the fact that 10,000 people are dying each week due to hunger. He outlined two factors to be con­sidered. The first is whether or not values can be taught and tlie second asks if theUniversity can be morally neutral or it it should take sides on controversial issues. 
"No more Magruders" 
The book On Higher Learning by Robert Hutchins claims that the University should just deal with intellectual issues, noted O'Leary. In contrast, he observed that the ~ ...._,,its advocate teaching the whole man in moral spects. Dr. Stanley Hauerwas, professor of theology, began by saying, "No university wants to produce more Magruders. We have got to have a values seminar taught at the senior level." 
by Pat Cuneo 
Staff Reporter 
Dr. Roberto Cruz discussed bilirtgual alternatives to education in a lecturelast night in the Library Auditorium. 
In short, bilingual education is instruction in two languages, whereby the young student becomes proficient in two languages and cultures. Although the program is workable in a multiplicity of languages, Cruz concentrated on the Spanis­English language. 
Cruz stated, "the child can take the best of the American system while keeping his native culture." ln the same way, the American youth benefits through his knowledge of both cultures. 
The popular misconception to this program, cited Cruz, "is teaching the Spanish -speaking child a sufficient amount of English and then throwing him into a one-language system again." 
Most of Cruz's work has been 
tested in the San Francisco Bay 
area, where he teaches at Stanford Universityand directs a number of bilingual organizations and training programs. 
"The Chicano has refused to 
surrender his culture to the 
melting pot of America as did 
the European immigrant, mainly 
because he did not migrate to the 
new world," offered Cruz. 
Cruz drew an analogy of small <ethnic l tributary streams, filtering into the mainstream, in 
With regard to the world hunger issue, Hauerwas said that it "presents us with a great moral crisis and we should have something to say about that to show the university to be relevant." 
The problem is, he continued, that "just as the study of humanities does not humanize a person, neither does ethics make a moral man." Values are too fragile to be learned; they involve training, he added. 
"The University is tempted to sell its soul to a moral store which is not central to the university's primary moral role," he stated. 
Hauerwas noted that the diversity of function is an im­portant aspect. "The University is not meant to meet every moral problem; its primary task is to be itself. It is the institution to give people the psychological and physical space to be dedicated to life and mind," he said. 
Articulation of truth 
The articulation of truth is a moral task, Hauerwas stated, and we are better off in the long run if we know the truth. 
"It is an institution that takes the risk that it is better to produce men to pursue the truth even though it may cause pain in the long run," Hauerwas said. "The pursuit of the truth is not separate from the pursuit of the good. We expect in our students and faculty in­tegrity." 
"We must take the reality as it is and not as we would wish it to be. This requires honesty, justice, humility, humor and kindness. As the demands of truth can be so destructive that only the love of others can sustain us in such a moral endeavor," said Hauerwas. 
He then raised three questions: how the University is to fulfill this role, what kind of community would be required and are we now doing it successfully. 
Rodes sites moral leadership 
Professor of Law Robert Rodes followed Hauerwas comenting, "I see more moral leadership in the University than Hauerwas does, a Christian should be concerned about hunger." 
"We are all of us inadequate before suffering; we need to work together out of common· inadequacy," stated Rodes, citing such obstacles as our habit of being 
'Enrich cultural stream' 
Bilingual education discussed 
explanation of the Chicano crease the changes of the viewpoint. "The Chicano does not program's success, noted Cruz. want his language and customs The overall goal is to incorporate filtered by the stream but rather ,to bilingual education rather than the go directly to the mainstream by 
currently existing for· 
=.., •••••••••••••••...••••••••••••••..••..••••••••• 
the bilingual system. This will, in language and isol:'lted la.n~uage :THE NOTRE DAME STUDENTiUNION: 
effect, enrich the stream." programs. The Ideal bllmgual • The speaker stated "Un­system calls for a professional : conscious social clashes exist in bilingual teacher and a bilingual • 

GUS'S 

IN THE OPEN MALL AT TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER 
TUESDAY NIGHT IS NOTRE· DAME & 
the
ST. MARY'S NIGHT 
panicin 
60 oz. PITCHERS 

needle


$1.50. 

park
OF MICHELOB 
8 and 10 pm 
Thurs & Fri
MUSIC BY ALLAN DOBBS 
Engineering

FOLK ROCK BLUES 
the current education educational teacher and a bilingual assistant,
system." For example, "Pepito he said. brings a peso into the classroom to The program primarily deals show his fellow students, and the with elementary school children teacher asks him how much the 
but there are also secondaryschool peso is worth in REAL money." programs presently funded by the However, Cruz feels that by far, 
government. In addition, adults
the standardized testing system can take advantage of the program needs the most reform. In one in selected areas. particular test, the child was asked to unscramble the word "toac." The standardized answer is "coat" yet many of the Chicano children unscrambled it to mean "taco." 
Historcally speaking, it is 
virtually unknown, stated Cruz, "that 107 Chicanos died at the Alamo along with Davey Crocket and Jim Bowie." "Pride in his education and heritage makes the Chicano want to do more with his life," he added. 
Peer teaching was offered as an excellent advantage to the bilingual system. The children Dr. Roberto Cruz

teaching themselves complement the teacher's work while also creating a better atmosphere 
CINEMA '75 
A comprehensive plan, 
PRESENTS
combining district funds with federal funds and initiating work shops for specific training of staff members, will significantly in­comfortabe and our fear of taking a stand and "losing our union cards." 
Professor of Government Peri Arnold represented a 'different background. "There is assumption of both Hauerwas and Rodes that Imorality is easily available. I want to suggest that it is a much ' harder job to find a basis for 
morality." 

First, he mentioned that we assume the moral role of the university. Second, he suggested an inquiry into the role of holy beliefs. Thirdly, he proposed that the university might provide the basis for reflection. 
"We must teach men and women how to reflect on the beliefs. The values can be memorized but memory serves a poor guide for moral choices," he claimed. 
He noted that only in a "heterogenous community of religious beliefs" is it possible to reflect on such issues. 
Burtchaell on Christian tradition 
Burtchaell was the last to ad­dress the issue stating, "As ·a University, our principle task is a search for learning; this can be a big contribution to moral life in the community. If men and women are good then their being wise has a great moral impact on the world." 
Burtchaell described qualities of the University, first citing the fact that it is a tradition to become not only proficient in a discipline but also to try to put the knowledge to human use. 
Secondly, "Our tradition does 
:
• : • 
: : • 
: 
i • 
• 



i $249°0 i 
i INCLUDES: i 
: * ROUND TRIP AIR FARE VIA DC-9 i : FROM SOUTH BEND : :• * MEALS AND LIQUOR IN-FLIGHT :•: * ACCOMODATIONS AT THE : : .CASTAWAYS : : * CONTINENTAL• BREAKFAST DAILY : : * FULL .DINNER DAILY i : * U.S. DEPARTURE TAX : 
i OPTIONS: i 
i 
i 
:•
•
•
•
•
i 
i
•
•
• 
not bring us together simply for the 
task of learning," he said. 
Business tends to just forcus on one 
task only. 
Thirdly, "we have a tradition 
that is Christian energing from the 
Catholic sector of Christianity," 
Burtchaell noted. 
"It is misleading to speak of a 
hunger crisis because it implies it 
just came upon us and will go 
away," Burtchaell stated. The 
University can, in a long term 
contribution, help make a people 
"wisely good", he added. 
Students unaware of hunger 

l 
In a question and answer period ·following the panel, an audience 

member estimated 60 percent of 1 
the student body claimed to be 
unaware that the hunger crisis, 
according to a survey taken 
several weeks ago. Burtchaell, 

j
however, disagreed with the 
statistics. "There are more than 

t
60 percent of the students who have passed by that knowledge," he said. 
A member of the audience requested more courses to be 
taught to raise questions on the hunger and possibly search for some potential solutions. It was noted that courses in the Program for Non-Violence, which deal with moral implications, may possibly be eliminated next semester. 
Rodes answered the proposal by 
saying that there are courses in the Universitywhich help us learn how to think and analyze problems. "We must do a lot of thinking to figure out what to do about the 
problem," he said. 
· .. • \

PROUDLY PRESENTS : ' ' 
•



suNsH1NE :
• 

A TRIP T0 FREEP0 RT : : • IN THE BAHAMAS :,• • 
8 DAYS & 7 NIGHTS : i 
•

FOR ONLY •
• 

:BROCHURES AND INFO AVAILABLE AT : :STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE (2nd : ... :• FIoor LaFortune) OR CALL 283-303 1 :• 
•

.• PLUS TAX AND ·GRATUITIES/PRICE •~ : IS PRO-RATA CHARTER PRICE ! 
1 
SAILING, TENNIS, GOLF, SCUBA i DIVING, DEEP-SEA FISHING, : SCOUTER RENTALS, SNORKELING :
• 1
•
•
•

• 1 
$50 DEPOSIT REQUIRED i l SIGN UP NOW i 
•
• 

l 
Audit0.rium : OPEN TO ND COMAAIINITV : 
L---------------~----~ ·······························~\·~, ••••••••••• 

Reactions varyover drinking age bill defeat 

by Marianne Schulte Starr Reporter 

Optimism for the lowering of the drinking age in Indiana to eighteen years of age was shattered last Thursday, when Chester F. Dovis, chairman of the House Public Policy Committee, decided not to hold vote on House Bill 1818. 
After a public hearing on the bill Wednesday, March 5, the outlook 
for  the  passing  the  bill  the  
following  day  looked  very  op­ 
timistic,  according  to  students  

representing Indiana colleges who were present at the meeting and who had been woking for the bill for nearly seven months. 
Without explanation, Dovis refused to hold a vote on the bill, thereby obliterating all chances for the bill to be allowed on the House floor this year for further debate and the final decisive vote. 
t:ommentmg yesterday on Dovis" move. Indiana State Hepresentative Robert DuComb stated. "It was a surprise to members of the committee when Dovis decided not to hold the vote. He might have made that decision because he felt that the bill would not hpve had sufficient support from panel members to assure its release into the House's agenda." 
DuComb did not, however. dismiss the possibility that Dovis' personal feelings concerning the bill might have entered into his decision relased last Thursday. DuComb admitted, "It is not in­conceivable that for some personal 
reason  Chairman  Dovis  did  not  
want  the  bill  released  to  the  
House."  
Confirming  that  it  was  not  

possible for the bill to be brought up again l'ntil next year, DuComb speculated that it was possible, but extremely unlikely, that the bill could be attached as a rider to another bill this year in hopes of entering into the house floor. 
"We're not like Congress, you know. We can't make a Christmas tree out of a bill; riders can't be attached to just any bill. They must be related to the same sub­ject matter as the bill they are appended to," DeComb said. 
DuComb admitted, "Unless the Indiana Alcoholic Beverages Association plans to introduce any 
major bills this year, the chances for House Bill 1818 becoming at­tached as a rider to a bill are unquestionably abscure." 
DuComb concluded on the promising note that "our brightest hope appears to rest on the pending success of the passing of the Faccenda Bill <the limited liability drinking bill) later this year. Otherwise the future of the bill will rest on its re-introduction to the same or another committee next year." 

Not unexpectedly, student reactions to the failure of the bill varied widely. Farley sophomore Judy Robert commented, "I guess I just had too much optimism. I suppose I didn't really believe it would pass because Indiana is so conservative. On the other hand, I thought that the chances seemed pretty good, especially after McLaughlin and others had gone down to the hearing and admitted to the bill's favorable chances for being voted out of the committee." 
Considering the liquor situation here on campus, Robert stated, "It's a farce because not everyone is twenty-one and they're going to the bars anyway. People are just going to have to wake up to reality." She also remarked that if alcohol were again allowed on campus, the stature of social life and parties would be improved at least to the level they were at last year. 
Grace Tower resident Gerard Martin, a junior from New York, noted, "It's ridiculous--it just shows you what a backward state Indiana is anyway." 
Morrissey resident Rob Tully, conceded. "I was really disap­pointed. In a sense, I think it was kind of irresponsible of the state legislators not to take into con­sideration some kind of com­promise ... at least lowering the drinking age to 18 or 19 for beer, 
Over telephone companies 
lnPIRG scores 111ajor victory 
by Hrian M. Clancy Starr Reporter 

The Indiana Public Interest 
Hesearch Group <lnPIRG) won a 
major victory l''ebruary 14 when 
the Public Service Commission 
closed a case concerning Indiana 
telephone companies' efforts to 
charge customers for directory 
assistance calls. 
"This is the first really clear-<:ut victory for the people of Indiana to come out of the new Public Service Commission." said Fritz Wiecking, InPIRG state director. "It has been clear for over a year now that the telephone companies had no reasonable way to charge for directory assistance without penalizing poor people, students and those who move frequently" he added. 
lnPIRG originally intervened in the proceedings in July 1973 when the Public Service Commission ordered General Telephone of Indiana. Indiana Bell of Indiana, llnited Telephone of Indiana and lllinois Bell to submit plans for charging for directory assistance 
General and llnited submitted

~·ails.
:>lans which would have charged 25 ~ents for all information calls when the numbers were printed in 
local directories. Illinois and f NOW ACCEPTING f
Indiana Bell submitted plans to charge 20 cents for all information 
calls, whether or not the number~~ APPLICATIONS FOR ,'
was published, but would have ' given all customers three free THE POSITION OF ca~=~y Miller, former InPIRG f f director, stated, "InPIRG in-~USINESS MANAGER'
tervened in the case for a number 
of reasons, but primarily because we felt that the plans were totally t 
unfair and because the charges 
~~~~de(e~~~~~~~tc:~~~~i~/~~~~! t 
Public Service Commission had 
1
approved the plans, some Indiana 
customers would be paying for t finding out numbers that were not ' 
published in any directory." ~~ 
Wiecking concluded, "The Public Service Commission should never have initiated this t proceeding. We are glad that they finally decided to end it. ~he f purpose of independent..m­
... 
vestigations by the comm1s~1?n f should be into ways to save utlhty t 
customers money, not into ways to charge the~.more." . f 
The dec1s1on by the Pubhc telephone companies to add directory assistance charges to their regular rate proceedings will 
be allowed. 
The Notre Dame chapter of InPIRG has been working with the state organization. conducting an investigation of the rate structuresof electric utility com­panies. The investigation resulted in the introduction of at least seven bills into the state legislature. These bills concerned such areas as utility deposits. interest on deposits, the warning period before cutting off service and an extension of billing periods. 
Locally, InPIRG has just released a report on checking accounts in the South Bend-Mishawaka area. The report, based on a survey compiled by !\lark Clark, a board member, tells in detail each bank's charge per check, charge for bounced checks and monthly service charges. The report is designed to help students select the bank best suited for their needs. The report is available at 

the campus InPIRG office. involve more people because we Another InPIRG project rely upon manpower," she added.


l5{:-f·he-------.---~ 
f t 
presently under way is a grocery 
pricing survey designed to assist 
shoppers in getting the most value 
out of their dollar. The reports, to 
be prepared by Jim Wilmes, will 
be completely revised from last 
semester's report and will be done 
the day before it is released, in 
order to provide shoppers with 
current prices. This report will be 
available at the campus InPIRG 
office later in the semester. 

The Notre Dame chapter has also been assisting the state office in starting new chapters at IUSB. Ill-Northwest in Gary, and at St. Mary's. These new chapters should be functioning by the end of this semester and ready for action next semester. 
The newly elected InPIRG Board of Directors are having a meeting Wednesday night to decide which areas each of the officers will be in charge of. "We will be trying for quality projects with more impact," said Julie Engel)Jart, one of the new board ml·mbers. "We especially want to 
f 
FOR THE 75-76 SCHOOL YEAR ,' 
*APPLICANTS MUST BE t ACCOUNTANCY 1
f 
MAJORS * f 
I
t
send Resume T0 : 
f
Bob Zogas 
f
Box Q, Notre Dame 
f 
Before MARCH 14 f 
~~~v~~~/~:~ssti:i~· !~~;:1:~· tTHIS IS A PAID POSITION t 
case. Future attempts by the 
A-----------------6 
..... 
even if it did remain a minimum age of twenty-one for hard liquor." 
Sophomore Kent Bransford from Fisher Hall responded, "It warms the cockles of my heart to know that the guiding fathers of this great state possess that rare and touching concern for my frail being that manifests itself in the tender coddling arms of state legislation." He added, "Let's drink to the coddling arms." 
When questioned for comment on the recent failure of the bill, one junior resident from Dillon <requesting to remain anonymous) quipped, "I'll take the fifth." 
Three freshmen from Farley, all coming from states with an eighteen years-old drinking law, agreed, "They should have passed the bill, because if you want to drink, you're going to drink anyway. If students can't get into the bars here in Indiana, they're only going to go up to Michigan to drink." 
One of these freshmen, Mary I<'lannery, observed, "I think that there is an over-emphasis on 
campus placed on drinking." 
Mary Bak agreed, "Sometimes I 
wonder if it isn't a case of the old 
'forbidden thing'--that people 
make such a big deal out of it 
because it's not allowed. At home 
we have parties and alcohol is 
merely regarded as a natural 
occurence, but not as the major 
reason for having or going to the 
party." 

Freshman Rosemary Marks from New York offered her opinion on the consequences of the alcohol situation here on campus. "Campus unity is being shot. People are keeping more and more to their rooms." 
Probably the biggest obstacle preventing alcohol from being allowed on campus is the policy holding the university liable," she added, "What bothers me is the total inconsistency of the situation. 
What makes someone more mature in Michigan than in In­diana?" 
In conclusion, the three agreed. 'Notre Dame is not like a normal college " 
MICHIGAN STREET ADULT THEATRES 
* 2 FILMS 
* 
BOOKSTORE 

* 
LIVE FLOOR SHOW 


1316 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET CALL 282-1206 FOR INFORMATION 


JUNIORS 

THERE WILL BE ONE MAKE-UP DAY FOR SENIOR PICTURES ­FRIDAY, MARCH 14 
CALL 3557 FOR AN APPOINTMENT. 
PROOFS CAN BE RETURNED THIS WEEK MON-FRI 10-1 or 2-5 TO ROOM 2C LAFORTUNE. 

Operation Brainstorm 
Entrydeadline ends Wednesday/ 
by Katie Kerwin ministration and Mrs. Millie ideas and to give individua·l'Staff Reporter Kristowski, director of placement students a greater chance to see 
Time is running out for students 
for the Law School. All three are their ideas put to use. who still wish to submit entries to members of the Ombudsman contribution .acknowledge , and 
Operation Brainstorm, an idea Advisory Board. even possibly winning a cash prize.
contest sponsored by the Om­Steve Lucero, Ombudsman "We hope this yieldsbudsman Service. The contest community relations officer, is something. If it works out we deadline is Wednesday, March 12 heading the Operation Brain-might sponsor it again," McLean at 6:30p.m. 
storm program. Bridget noted. "Sometimes ideas take All Notre Dame undergraduates O'Donnel is media r.o-ordinator time to get out," he added, giving ~ are encouraged to submit ideas in for the program and Jack Piz-as examples Darby's Place, the La the categories of of social ac­zolato is its public affairs co-Fortune renovation, An Tostal,tivities, service or policy. 
ordinator. Mardi Gras, and the OmbudsmanSuggestions will be judged for "The response has been good so Serviceitself, all of which began asoriginality, practicality and im­
far, butwe think we should get a lot suggestions and took several yearsplementation. more. Participation so far has to organized and bring about.
Richard J. Sullivan, University been less than we expected," said "With the help of the Om­Registrar and one of the three Pizzolato. "The ideas are sur-budsman Service, it might not takejudges for the contest, stressed the prisingly good. Alot of them could 2or 3 years for a student to see hisimportance of the third aspect of be instituted immediately." idea in action," said McLean.
these criteria. 
Pizzolato sees one of the most Although he is happy with the"Most of the suggestions are important purposes of the contest quality of suggestions so far, very fine ideas. The way a student as provideng the new student McLean too is disappointed withamplifies his idea will probably government and the Social the low returns.
determine the winner." 
Commission with fresh suggestion "Some student governmentSullivan explained that a directly from the student body. personnel regard the contest as
student must not only have an "It would give them some ideas reflecting the student attitude:imaginative idea, but a detailed, to work with," he stated. "Let someone else do it."
logical implementation plan for his Bill McLean, former Om-We feel that most people havesuggestion. He must consider all budsman director and originator of ideas, but implementation isthe angles and be able to back up the idea of Operation Brainstorm, scaring them. We don't expecthis idea. 
added that this is an opportunity step-by-step details --only a bareSullivan sees the cnntest as an not only for student government to outline. 
opportunity tor the student to vent gather ideas, but for students to "A lot of people feel it's not theirhis gripes and make constructive express themselves. JOb, but have an angle on how it
suggestions and, not only to have could done," con­
A lot of people have ideas, but be McLeanthem listened to, but also possibly 
don't know what to do with them, eluded. 
have them implemented and or don't want to have to become McLean and Pizzolato both hoperewarded. 
part of student government to see for an increase in responses beforeSo far, between 50 and lOO entries them instituted according to the Wednesday night deadline.
have been received. Although McLean. The contest is a chance Entry forms are available in allSullivan is disappointed with the to throw out and idea as a starting residence halls, Darby's Place, orsmall number of responses, he is point for someone else to work on. the Ombudsman Office, located onpleased with the quality of the "You not only get to express the second floor of LaFortunesuggestions. 
your ideas and see your Student Center.
"I'm really impressed with suggestions implemented, but you Prizes include $50 grand prize,them. Some should be im­get the satisfaction of having your concert tickets, McDonald's giftplemented and some of them Now that the Ombudsman certificates, and an 8 x 10should have been thought of long Service has established itself in the autographed glossy of the winner'sbefore. Even if they don't win an Notre Dame community, it would favorite ND celebrity.
award they could be implemented like to use its influence and Final results of Operationthrough the Ombudsman Service. 
manpower and reputation to im-Brainstorm will be announced byAnd if they are, the student will get prove the process of implementing Wednesd?.y, March 19, 1975.
the credit." Sullivan pointed out that 
···································~·········~· 
although many ideas are not grand prize winners, they are still solid, practical suggestions that w11l be 

i TONIGHT i 
given consideration and channeled 
: By Popular Demand A_nother :
through the Ombudsman office. He hopes that many of the ideas brought to light through Operation 
i AMERICAN BANDSTAND ! 
Brainstorm will eventually be put • • to use. Also judging the contest are ! NIGHT ! 
Associate Dean Vincent Raymond • • of the College of Business Ad­
i• 50~ for ALL DRINKS~ • 
SMC services to •• ••
! $2.00 for ANY LARGE PIZZA !


undergo changes 
(continued from page 3) 


!• Dance Contest ! 
examining area as we have now," • • explained Stevie Wernig, assistant=: Rate . A . Record ..= 
to the vice-president of academic affairs. "In addition we will have a • • supply-store room and a waiting • • 
room." she continued. : A t h Tables : 
Currently the Health Services on : u 0 grap ·: 
the third floor of Le Mans are • • separated into two sections of the • • 
floor. with the nurse's office away.: Many Free Pr·1zes, G1 ·fts ·•••
from the infirmary rooms. "The way it is now it is hard to keep an : : eyeonanyonewhoisverysick. By. • JOKE CONTEST •
relocating the infirmary to Holy : : 
~~~~~~: : 
tralized. Anotheradvantagetothe :·· Spec·•als start at 5·.00 =:
new location is that it is on the ground floor and readily accessible for moving wheelchairs and • D • • 
transporting students to the : anc•ng at . : hospital," Wernig commented : . 8• 30 : further. • p , • "With the Health Services out of : For St. at s parties, : Le Mans we will convert the space • I • back into living quarters, either : ca I now for green beer : into two doubles and a single, a : b : tripleandasingle,oratripleanda •• from Li rary carry _out : double. We will decide within the • • next day so the room selection • • procedur~s can take place," said : : · 
Wernig. • • 
Currently the Health Service •• •• employs three docors on a rotation : : basis, Drs. Rigaux, Serwatka and • • Brecht!, all in family practice. "If : : a student needs a specialist our • • Health Service can get them one : : faster than they can find one on • • their own," asserted Wernig. ••••••• •••••..•••••• 

Notre Dame's 
PRE-CANA PROGRAM 
for engaged couples 
April 6, 13, and 20th (Sun. Ev.) Limited to Notre Dame students and their partners 
Sign up now in Campus Ministry Off. Deadline: March 19th 
S nsored Cam us Minist 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED Found: 1 pair black gloves
I need a ride to Waterbury, Conn. 
for break. Call Ellen 232-4069 K.C. Call 8365 
Juggler Manuscripts may be 

I need a ride to (or through) picked up between 9 and 12 am. Art Philadelphia for spring break. may be picked up 424 CavanaughPlease call Maggie 232-4069 anytime 
Need ride to Madison, Wise., This 
Friday, about noon. Call 3384 FOR SALE 
NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS. 1 Miracord 750 with V -15 11, Pair 
CALL TERRY 5495 
Southwest Technical U.T. Power 

amps 75 watts each (R.M.S.) Call 3 women need ride to Arizona for 277·0085 after 7 pm Spring Break. Call 1272 or 1260 
Sale 2 Rectilinear xa speakers.Two of us in desperate need of ride Orig. $400. now $225 for the pair. to Phila.. rrenton area for Easter 
Call Tom Cordell at WNDU 233· 

break. Call Mel 3457 7111 
Desperately need ride to Fla. near 1974 Camaro-AVTO, Power, AC. West Palm Beach for break. Call 
AM·FM custom interior. 232-8600 

Ron 3306 
Olympic S-track player-recorder Housemate wanted. 4 room house with AM-FM stereo. includes 2 with basement, back yard, garage. Air-suspension speakers. Call 255. 
Very nice rooms. Excellent neigh­5848 borhood. Call Jeff at 283-7234 or 234·2931 
FOR RI:::NT 

Need ride home to Tulsa for N.D. B· Ball game. Call John 3471 (Do 2 five bedroom houses for rent for you need a place to stay?) next school year. Excellent con­
dition, furnished within 1!2 mile of Need ride to Boston for break. Call campus. Call 233-2613 Jim 8504 
Furnished houses available now DESPERATELY need ride to DC for Summer and Fall rental. area for Spring Break. Share Phone: 289-2602 or 234-9364 expense. Please call 4872 
Four student houses available Need ride to New Orleans at Sept. '75, Groups of 3, 4 & 5. Call Spring Break. Call 4379 287.7818 mornings before 9:30 or 
evenings Need ride tor two at break to and from Ft. Lauderdale. Call John 1067 
LOST & FOUND 

Need ride to Pittsburgh this Found: to the hitchhiker who lett weekend. Leave Friday afternoon, his gloves in my car last Thur­return Sunday. Ca II Kevin 8867 Piease call 233-5925 
NOTICES Set of Keys lost. Call John 1757 
HEAR MIKE McCOY OF THE GREEN BAY PACKERS SPEAK 
PERSONALS

ON HIS EXPERIENCES IN PRO FOOTBALL AND CHRISTIAN 
KOONy,

FELLOWSHIP TUESDAY 
In life you've got to take all the

MARCH 11th 9pm ST EDS BUSTO you can get. Mary, Cindy,
CHAPEL 2nd FLOOR. ALL 
Amy and all the others wish you aWELCOME 

CHEERY birthday. And may your phone ring forever. 

Western Electronic 24 hour TV 
KOONy no. 2 

service. 1530 Western Ave. 282-1955 GREAT SCOTT! COME TOMen and women with two years of 
LOUIE'S JUMBO BEER

college left! Want to invest six 
SPECIAL MON THRU THURS. 5weeks this summer and assure 

P.M. TO 9 P.M. 

yourself a second career as an Army Officer upon graduation? 
Jan S. 

Earn approximately $500.00 this Why does your smile alwayssummer and gain self-confidence! 
brighten up my day?

No obligation. For information 
Smile on 

contact CPT Weimer at 283-6265 
Smile on 

about Army ROTC Basic Camp. 
Sunshine! 
N.D. 

Cleveland Club Spring Bus leaves March 21 1:00 pm. Info -5714 
Joanne. It what I heard is true 1 think you

Typing. experienced in term 
better "clean up your act." 

papers and dissertations. Reasonable, accurate. 232-5715 
Wayne Weaver, Happy Birthday

Married couple-needed for live.in houseparents for foster home. 
NCAA B-BALL PEP RALLY

Salary. Write: P.E.P., Inc. 3012 S. 
THURS · STEPAN · 6:45. LETSTwyckenham, South Bend, Ind. 

DO IT TOGETHER 

46614 Now Starting: 
Need ride to N.D. from Tampa Olivia Newton-John tan club. Florida area Mar. 30 or 31st. Will share expenses. Mark 1043
Headquarters, 326 Stanford. Phone 
-
8704 and ask for Denny. 





44th Bengal Bouts resume tonight 


CHET ZAWALICH will be the veteran tonight when he faces freshman Carl Penn in an attempt to repeat his championship in the 180 lb. bracket. 
by Bill Brink 
The 44th annual Bengal Bouts got under way Sunday evening in the ACC, with 16 fights taking place among contestants from the 127 to the 175 lb. brackets. 
Hard-hitting, aggressiveness and a little blood characterized the first half of the evening, but most of the first eight fights produced one clearly dominant fighter as evidenced by the one TKO and five unanimous decisions. Only two fights were close enough to warrant split decisions. Terry Broderick opened the eveninglwith a unanimous 
decision over Dan Romano in· the 127 lb. class. 
Sophomore Mike Mullin followed with a unanimous 
decision victory over Jason Mims in the 135 lb. 
bracket. 

The Bouts' first close match came next in the 140 lb.. division with sophomore Pat O'Brien scoring a split decision win over senior Larry Higgins. Higgin's aggressiveness made for a lively match, but O'Brien's superior reach enabled him to check it and capture the bout. Bob Kane then won the other match in that class with a unanimous decision over Greg Bachman. 
Amidst the blood and controversy of the 150 lb. division bout Junior Mike Shaw outpointed John Albers in a debated split decision. Though Albers drew blood from Shaw's face, Shaw used his defenisve prowess to gain the victory. The evening's first TKO followed in the 155 lb. class with Rob Metzler stopping Bob Schweihs at 35 seconds into the second round. 
Joe Cooler's unanimous decision over Dave Brown in the 160 lb. bracket and Steve Schuster's win over fights being stoppedTony Yonto, also by unanimous decision, brought a before completion. Matt Wuellner close to the first half of the night's events. opened the 165lb. weight class with 
After intermission the bouts in the heavier weight a third round TKO of Neal Fit-brackets began, with four fights taking place in both zgerald. Junior Tom Kelly then the 165 and 1751b. divisions. The hitting was harder followed with a third round rallyand the bouts a little shorter with five of the eight that bloodied John Tartaglione's 
Zawalich playing veteran 
Wt'ight Class: 
by Rich Odioso 

Chet Zawalich knows what Carl Penn must be thinking. Two years ago in the Bengal Bouts Zawalich, then a freshman just out of Hart· ford, Conn. entered for the ring for the first boxing match of his life. 
Now in che role of veteran, Zawalich meets Penn, a freshman from El Paso, Texas, in the semifinals of the rugged 180 pound weight class Tuesday night. "I was uncertain, unsure of myself, " says Zawalich. "I was worried about the ring, the crowd. how to train, what to eat-all this plus my opponent." Uncertain or not, Zawalich scored a knockout in that fight before losing a close bout to Jerry Samaniego. Last year Zawalich won his first Bengal Championship. 
Penn is understandably 'lervous yet confident as he prepares for the bout. "I've boxed some before, in fact my first organized fight was in the fourth grade, but its been an off-and'{)n thing. Yet I've gone in against some Army guys back home, they're really tough, and I'm still here so I should be all right. I've got confidence in my training and I've had some good tips. I'll just do my best and see what happens." 
Zawalich feels that experience is a small, yet possibly decisive, advantage in the Bengals. "I'm not really worried in the ring. I've been on both ends of the stick, a winner and a loser and I can accept whatever happens. A key to boxing is self-confidence, because with it you can relax and perform to vour ootential." 

Zawalich knows he's going to need more than just confidence to win the 180 pound class which shapes up as one of the Bengal's best. In the other semifinal bout Mike McGarry, whom Zawalich describes as "good with jabs, more of a dancer, he's got a lot of quick combinations," meets Ed Coppola who is "more of a slugger, he's got a strong upper body." McGarry boxed in the Bengals last year and while this is Copola 's first Bengals he has prior ring experience. 
127 lbs.
Meanwhile Zawalich must worry about Penn whom he feels is a 
135 lbs.
"MuhammedAli type, he's got quick hands and quick com­
140 )bs.
binations." Penn on the other hand has praise for Zawalich especially his technique and style. 
Zawalich and Penn both have 150 lbs. varied athletic backgrounds. Carl was an AAU regional wrestling 
155 lbs.
ehampion as well as competing in football, track and pickup 
160 lbs.
basketball. He remembers playing against the unbelievably quick Nate Archibald when the pro 165 lbs. 
star was a collegian at UTEP. Chet also competed in just about everything in high school before 
175 lbs.
settling on rugby and boxing at Notre Dame. "Boxing is a con­trolled violence while rugby is 
180 lbs.
sheer chaos," says Zawalich." They both have a lot to commend 
them." 

190 lbs. 
Both have also been tagged with nicknames. Zawalich, like many 
with his first name is known as C'het the Jet while Carl has picked up "Catfish." I've had it about four years. I don't know exactly where I got it," says Penn," 
%Observer
Maybe in wrestling because I was so slippery, I don't really know." 
Penn is impressed with his brief experience with the Boxing Club. "Everybody's been very nice," he says, "Nappy 
Sportsseems to be the most humanitarian coach I've run across. He's really concerned that no one gets hurt and everyone has a good time. And I like the charity aspect, helping less unfortunate people across the sea." 
NCAA tourney tickets 
Steeped in the Bengal tradition for three years Zawalich is even more enthusiastic about the 
go on sale today at ACC 
program. "It's like a fraternity, I 
mean alumni come in and talk to 
Tickets for Notre Dame's first
you and make you feel the tradition 
round game in the NCAA Midwest
of the event. It's really an 
regional against Kansas will go on
emotional thing. 

sale today at the second floor ticket 
"One of the Bengal Fathers 
windows of the ACC. The $5.00
spoke at the banquet last year and 
ticket price includes both of the
told us that 50 to 75 per cent of his 
games being played at Oral
mission was supported by our 
Hoberts University in Tulsa,
bouts. It really made me proud to 
Oklahoma.
realize that I can do something for 
Tickets will be issued on a first
myself -the jacket and maybe a 
come, first served basis. Because
trophy -and also help others." 
of the limited amount of tickets
"I can't say enough about 
that is received, each student may
Nappy. He gives himself totally to 
present only his or her own ID
his fighters. He'll do anything for 
card. 
you, he's number one with me." 
Should the Irish win and advance 
to the regionals at New Mexico
card, including the Zawalich Penn 
State University, tickets will go on
march, starts at 8 p.m. in the ACC. 
sale next Monday and Tuesday,
Good tickets are still available. 
face and earned him a TKO victory at 1:20 of the final round. 
John Ricotta and Tom Plouff then provided the crowd pleaser in that division with a wild, scrappy bout resulting in a split decision victory for Ricotta. 
The New York sophomore managed enough hard combinations among thequickflurries to win the bout. 
John Garland finished up the 165 lb. bracket with a TKO of Mike Thomas when Thomas failed to answer the bell for the second round. 
In the 175lb. division Lou Bulte dominated the first 
two rounds of his fight with Tom Hastings to gain a unammous decision. Sophomore John Thornton used an agressive jab attack to eke out a split decision win over Shane Carew. 
The first knockout of the evening came in the third match of the 175 lb. class, with junior Thad Naquin disposing of Bill Blum at 20 seconds into the third round. The match had been close until a right to the jaw decked Blum. Bob Farrell then closed the evening by defeating Gus Cifelli by a TKO at 40 seconds into the third round. 
The bouts resume tonight at 8:00 with 18 matches slated for the evening. Tonight will mark the first competition in the 180 lb. and 190 lb. weight classes, along with bouts in all of the lighter divisions as well. 
Key matches to watch begin in the 150 lb. weight class when defending champ Phil Harbert takes on Mike Shaw, a winner on Sunday night. Harbert floored all three of his opponents last year en route to the division title and the matchup with Shaw is ex­pected to be a rought, hard-fought one. 
In the 175lb. bracket the bout between Thad Naquin and Bob Farrell promises to be one of the highlights of the event. Both fighters won convincingly on Sunday. 
Defending champion Chet Zawalich opens the 180 lb. bracket with a match against freshman Carl Penn. Zawalich is the favorite of the division, but the competition is by no means easy, with Penn and other division contenders Mike McGarry and Ed Coppola (who also fight each other tonight> expected to be formidable opponents. 
Both of tonight's bouts in the 190 lb. division should prove exciting. Mike McGuire, champion in 1973 and runner-up in 1974 faces Ron Buttarazzi, and Tom Bake takes on Rudy Ruettiger. 
The complete agenda for tonight's action is: 
Fighters 

Marc Ronquillo vs. Dennis Buchanan 
Bill Kiskowski vs. Mike Mullin 
Dave Tezza vs. Dave Reyna 
Pat Moran vs. Pat O'Brien 
Bob Kane vs. Mike Cramer 
Phil Harbert vs. Mike Shaw 
Hoger Varela vs. Jim Clune 
Matt McGrath vs. Pete Aherns 
Kevin Poudore vs. Joe Coller 
Steve Schuster vs. Dan Betancourt 
Matt Wuellner vs. Tom Kelly 
.John Hicotta vs. John Garland 
Lou Bulte vs. John Thornton 
Thad Naquin vs. Bob I<'arrell 
Cht>t Zawalich vs. Carl Penn 
Mike McGarry vs. Ed Coppola 
Mike McGuire vs. Ron Buttarazzi 
Tom Bake vs. Dan Huettiger 

March 17th and 18th, again on a first come, first served basis. 
McCoy to speak at FCA meeting 
Tonight's meeting of the Notre 
Dame chapter of the Fellowship of 
Christian Athletes ( FCA > will 
feature Mike McCoy of the Green 
Bay Packers as a guest speaker. 
The former Irish All-American will 
discuss his pro football and 
Christian fellowship experiences. 
Students, faculty, staff and all 
others are invited to attend the 
meeting which will be held in the 
chapel of St. Ed's Hall. The 
meeting will start at 9:00 PM. 

= 
-





