
On The Inside 
Soph. Lit Festival ... pg 5 
SMC Board of Regents ... pg 3 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. IX, No. 89 Thursday, February 27, 1975 
McLaughlin, candidates confront students 


Student government holds La Fortune rally 
Yale chaplain guest speaker 
World hunger subject ofLenten service • • • 
AL SONDEJ AND MARY BETH DIAMOND talk to William Sloan Coffin at an in­formal press conference held yesterday afternoon. Coffin seemed optimistic about what can be done to help the world's hungry. He pointed out, however, that most Americans are doing almost nothing to remedy starvation. 
by Jeff Pecore Starr Reporter 

A vocal crowd of students filled LaFortune Ballroom last night for a rally conducted by the candidates for Student Body President. The recurrent theme of the student opinions was the indifference and lack of consideration for the students by the administration. 
Student Body President Pat McLaughlin opened the meeting by commenting on the purpose of the rally. "This is not a publicity stunt. We want to clear the air on what are the issues for both the candidates and the students." _ 
McLaughlin answt>rs complaints 

Before the candidates spoke, McLaughlin talked about the work of the Student Government during his administration in answer to student accusations that the Student Government "has done nothing." 
"Students complained about the price increase on the basketball tickets, so we went over there and tried to do something about it. We published a referendum and Jet the students vote on what they wanted. People complained about housing, about the male dorms being taken. We went to the Board of Trustees and asked that no more male dorms be tak"!n and that at the same time no girls be forced off campus. I'm sorry for the girls in Badin but I think the decision made on this matter was a good one," he slated. 
"We've had complaints about the misuse of power by rectors. Students themselves must challenge the rectors before we can do anything to help them," he said. 
McLaughlin added that, "Students have put down the social life this year saying that they want alcohol to remain a part of it. We've lobbied vigorously for the passage of a Jaw lowering the drinking age and have instituted the Quickie for those who wish to drink legally in Michigan. When students asked .for a place to go at night to relax and talk, we gave them Darby's and the Nazz." 
MrLaughlin continued, citing the existence of the 

Off-Campus Commission to help students iiving off 
campus. "An off campus shuttle service was 
suggested but that was tried two years ago and failed due to lack of interest," McLaughlin said. "We tried an alternate solution by organizing car pools this year, but that met the same fate. The Student Body President also mentioned attendance at neighborhood meetings, a newsletter, better police protection, and a Christmas storage program as other ways that the Student Government has tried to assist off campus students. "We're still working on a Food Co-Op but I'll believe that when I see it," he added. 
McLaughlin ended his opening remarks by an­swering student complaints about a lack of com­munication between the Student Government and the students. "Students asked us why they don't read more about the Student Government in the Observer. A few years ago, the Student Government was criticized for seeking too much publicity and not doing Pnough for the students. We're not in this to get publicity, just results. We tired to make student government a little more respectable." 
"Good •tart• nol' he ~ld the 
' % 
't# ·ii 
''¥ $ 

~-',\
I "~-l
SBP CANDIDATES and students were given a chance to sound-off in the La Fortune ba II room last night. 
assembly. "If you don't listen to what the candidates have to say, then you can forget everything for next year." 
Candidates state platforms 
It was the candidates' turn to speak next. The for­mat allowed a two minute speech by each of the can­didates followed by a question and answer period. 
Jack Culligan and running mate Bill Macauley were first and they stressed the "responsibility of the students to elect a responsible leader who will give up his time to show the administration that we're not little kids." 
Joe Corpora, who has Jim Spurling as his vice­presidential candidate, called for improved com­munications and increased student input and promised a "100 percent commitment." 
Patrick Boyle and partner Tom Black cited the administration's lack of respect for the students and stated that "the students are Notre Dame." 
Mike Gassman and Frank McGuire promised a more pffective, business-like Student Government. 
Brian Hegarty and running mate David Caldwell called for forceful action on the part of students, such as orderly demonstrations, to coerce the ad­ministration into listening to the students. 
Candidates Ed Byrne and Tom Fitzgerald said that the students "must play Fr. Burtchaell's game better than he does." 
Andy Bury and· his Vice-presidential candidate Alfred Sondej <not to be confused with AI Sondej who collects for the World Hunger Coalition at the dining halls) maintained the necessity of active student support for a successful Student Government. 
Students voice opinions 
A question and answer period followed the can­didates' speeches and student anger at the ad­ministration's seeming lack of concern was voiced even more strongly. The discussion became more of a forum for student opinions than a chance for the candidates to answer specific questions which was originally intended. ' 
(continued on page 4) 
by Gregg Bangs Staff Ht•pot·te•· 

Stating that the world is about to enter a promised time. Rev. William Sloane Coffin, .Jr.. ealled for people "to look forward, not backwards" and realize the world must work as a whole in overcoming the world food crisis. 
Speaking before a congregation of ap­proximately two hundred people at Sacred Ht•art Church. Coffin emphasized the need for humanity to join in the "brotherhood of man." for the hunger crisis, as well as other major world crises. "What was once a prophetic religious v1s1on is now a pragmatic necessity," the Yale University chaplain related. "All problems are worldwide and interrelated----this should raise conscioussness of the fact that this world is in reality one." he continued. 
Coffin explained that the hunger crisis knows no boundaries."If God truly cares for all of us as if we were all one, then we would know territorial discrimination is just as evil as racial discrimination." he said. 
' 

Coffin followed this statement by not be a short termed one that "would make proclaiming the need for a unified world it through the hard times then stop," but which set aside territorial boundries in rather one that man would observe con­order to work against world hunger. "God tinually. 
cares to pach as if he had no one else to care Coffin thought the austerity would not for." he continued. "Since God does care _make Americans unhappy, because t:or Pverybody. no one person,in any country although he thought Americans were well should be left to go hungry • he re~soned. off economically they were in the midst of a 
Coffin deemed human life "irreplaceable," "spiritual dilem~a " and stated that every human has "a right to. · 
life." HP added that the term "right to life" did not necessarily apply to the confines of abortion. "Isn't food a right to life~" he asked. 
"What's the matter with this country that considers public education a right and food private property, with a little left over for charity. If food was thought of as a right, then sharing it with the brothers and sisters of the world is not just an observation of eharity but an operation of justice." Coffin proclaimed. 
Coffin offered the concept of austerity as a solution to the crisis of world hunger. 
"Austerity is a necessary ingredient for solidarity." he said. He maintained that this austerity would 
"Every time we enter a supermarket it's a Hamlet type thing--to buy or not to buy'? And the shopper is apparently not happy. We are as alienated in our abundance as some poor people are in their misery." he concluded. Coffin ventured the opinion that when "a 
" 


and press conference
e e e 
by Stewart McGough Staff Reporter 
Rev. William Coffin, chaplain of Yale University, suggested a program of com­munication to make the university com­munity aware of the world's hunger problem.
In an informal question-and-answer session yesterday in the LaFortune Ballroom, Coffin noted that, "The program has got to start small, but it must be done right. It has to make the entire community conscious of the fact that hunger is a world­wide problem." 
"But piety must not be separated -from politics," Coffin continued," "Power must help the poor." He went on to say that the only way that such political power could be put to use is with a "grass roots movement." 
"The World Food Council had all the big names behind it," Coffin stated, "but it didn't have the 250,000 telegrams from constituents needed to get attention and action. You must have those stacks of mail." 
Turning to the question of how the existing Notre Dame Hunger Coalition could aid in such a project, Coffin pointed out the actions of similar groups at Yale, Harvard, and person th!nks of world hunger and every other cnsts today, there are four points to rPmember. One, that the world is one. Two each individual in it is separate. Three' austerity is a fine thing. Four, so ·i~ celibacy." 

Celibacy is "a fine thing." according to Coffin, when it is used right. "Jesus Christ was the perfect celibate. He did not hide behind a curtain and let the world go by. He wPnt out to the masses and worked with them." he said. 
With this knowledge behind us, Coffin thought that mankind "could venture into the promised time knowing God made the world for all of us." 
other schools. 
"You need dedication and students that are willing to give up the time" he said. "One student at Yale postponed his graduation to direct the program for a semester. This isn't necessary in every case," he added, "but the dedication was 
there."  
In  an  effort  to  comm unicate  to  the  
students,  Coffin  felt  that  low-key  efforts  
would  work  as  well  as  any  large-scale  

program. Volunteer fasts, meatless days, walk-a-thons, and conscientious use of scarce goods were given as examples. Given much attention was an idea for a fact sheet to be distributed to the students giving "not only the problems of the world but who in this community is doing something about them." 
Upon mention of a national student headquarters for activities, Coffin em­phasized that "there is actually no need for a central headquarters. It may be natural to form a sort of coalition, but the mor e loose it is the better it is. Students generally don't like the notion of being controlled~" 
"The academic community must do its own bit," Coffin said in concluding the session, "and one of the best ways to do so is to use its own resources. Notre Dame has the resources and the ideas. The objective is to put them to use." 
the observer Thursday, February 27, 1975 


warld briefs 
IIOLLY\\'OOD. Fla. WPil--President Ford said Wednesday that charges of Arab discimination against Jewish-{)wned U.S. banks are being investigated and "appropriate action will be taken" if allegations prove true. 
\\":\Slll!'><ITOI\ (l!Pil--Officials of the United States and Saudi Arabia conferred on economic cooperation Wednesday as protests mounted against the Arab policy of boycotting firms that do business with Israel. 
l'lt'l"HIS Pl'EBLO, N.M. <llPil--Pueblo Indians said Wed­nesday they want to think about an offer from convicted Waterga~e conspirator John Ehrlichman to help them get back land their ancestors once wandered freely on. 
1.0:\ noi\ <l'l'll--Parliament voted overwhelmingly Wednesday night to give Queen Elizabeth a $908,000 annual pa.Y. r!lise, but onl>' after the royal family came in for sharp critiCism by anti­monarchists. Following a three-hour special debate the House of l'ommons rejected by a margin of 427-90 a motion to scrap the proposed wage increasee. 

an campus taday 
2:30 pm -movie and discussion, "'taoism and the right of cosmic renewal" by g. seaman, av. room, cce bldg. , 
4 pm -colloquium, "pain-Induced emotionality: a theory of rein­forcement for avoidance behavior" by c. crowell, 119 haggar hall. 
4 pm . seminar, "the cytochrome connection" by dr. m. kamen, conf. room, rad. lab. 
7:30 pm . lecture, trascendental meditation, 249 madeleva. 
8 pm . lecture, pro-life seminar, dr. & mrs. diamond, mrs. mon­tgomery, washington hall. 
8& 10 pm. film, "don't look now", eng. aud. $1. 
8 pm -drama, "medea", o'laughlin aud. 
8 pm. lecture, "archaeology & history: greeve in perspective", by 
t.w. jacobsen, lib. aud. 
8pm. movie & lecture, "feng-shul; chinese geomancy" galvin aud. 
9& 11 pm . film, "paper chase", little theater. 


Presidential amendment opposed by White House 
WASHINGTON !UPJ) -The administration strongly opposed Wednesday a proposed con­stitutional amendment that would prevent future presidents from ascending to the White House without being elected by the people. as did Gerald R. Ford. 
Assistant Attorney General Antonio Scalia, who said he was speaking for President Ford. told a Senate judiciary subcommittee that the proposal would place the governmt•nt "in the hands of a powerless caretaker." 
The subcommittee is holding hearings on a proposal by Sen. John Pastore, D-R.I., to amend the Constitution to require that Congress call a special presidential election when any appointed vice-president becomes president. as did Ford on the 1\1. Nixon. 
The constitutional amendments subcommittee also heard from historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr., who suggested abolishing the vice­presidency and filling any presidential vacancies by a special t•lection. ra binet officials, ac­cording to ranking, would serve as acting president in the interim. 
Scalia said the proposal would reduce the vice-president who ascends to the presidency to that of "a caretaker with no more autho~!ty than that status con­fers ... 
He said that the amendment would provide an inadequate amount of time to hold a "normal" nominating and campaign process and "create a transition period in which the executive branch and the government are enfeebled." 

Four commissions 



Student Union retains structure 
by John Hennessy 
Staff Reporter 

As the change in student government nears, there are no indications that the Student Union will be reorganized for next year. 
"I don't see any major changes coming up in the Student Union's structure," said Pat Burke, Student Union director, when discussing the organization's present and future situation. 
"The role of director," he con­tinued, "has been to oversee the four commissions, which include the Academic, Social, Cultural Art and Service. His major respon­sibility is to see that each remains within the Union's Budget." 
This years budget was $40,000 and according to Burke, ex­penditures have not exceeded that figure. He went on to explain that each comission was its allotted money sponsoring different ac-
Parents Weekend I at wholesale prices! 
begins Friday 
Parents of students in the junior class at the University of Notre Dame will participate in a typical weekend of activites beginning Friday on the campus. The annual spring semester weekend will be highlighted by a presidential dinner with Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., at 7:45 p.m. Saturday <March 1) in the North 
Dining Hall.  
Activities open attending the Notre Wisconsin hockey  with game  parents Dame -at 7:30  

p.m. Friday in the Athletic and Convocation Center, followed by a social hour in the MonogramHoom. 
Collegiate workshops and op­portunities to meet with faculty members of all departments will begin at 10 a.m. Saturday. The Alumni .Association's "Notre Dame in Review," a multi-media documentary, will be presented at 12::!0 p.m. in Memorial Library Auditorium and be repeated at intervals during the afternoon. 
A special liturgy written by members of the junior dass will be used by Father Hesburgh at the 5 
p.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church where the Rev. Robert Griffin, r .S.C., university chaplain, will preach. Augusto F. Grace, class president . will present greetings 
at the class dinner. 
The final weekend activity will be a Sunday brunch at 10 a.m. in the North Dining Hall. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame Md St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $9 per semester (516 per year) from The Observer Box· Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
···························································••!··~····: 
•• 

!STUDENT • 
i •• • UN/ON ••• • 

PRESENTS: 
. I 
•

• •
• 
!~

• 
: AI Pacino in: •
• 
SERPICO

• 
:


•
• ::
:............................ 
tivities. "The academic Com­
miSSIOn will use their money on 
lecutres and other events, while 
the Social Commission conducts 
such things as the Wacky Winter 
Weekend, for example. Cultural 
Arts have the Blues Festival and 
the Service Commission invests in 
refrigerator · rentals and the Book 
Exchange." 

The term of this year's student 
Union officers expires on April 
first, but Ray Carey, Assistant SC 
Director, stated that "we still go on 
after that until the end of the 
year." 




I 
----------------~
·-------­
The post have been appointed by the Student Board of Directors in the past. but it has not been determined what method will be used for filling those positions this year. Burke stated the system is usually "self-perpetuating," meaning that this year's officers will have a responsibility in the matter. 
"For one to be qualified for these positions they must possess the willingness to spend the time because it is very demanding. There is much responsibility and it's a lot of work," stated Carey. 
I I I 

I ~~' •~C! f-!'1
I Are you being ripped off?I You have every right to buy auto parts 
I  HOFFMAN BROS.  
1  (corner of Eddy & Madison)  
1I  We have parts to fix all American & most foreign-made cars  
I  Let our expert mechanics handle it OR  
IL  Save & do it yourself!  (Advice is free)  


-------------------------~ 
LOOKING FOR... HOBBY & CRAFT SUPPLIES? 
"" ENGINEERING PROJECTS -tc ARKIE & ART ASSIGNMENTS *MODEL TRAINS, CARS & PLANES 
XACTO, DREMEL, ROCKETS, LIONEL& N GAUGE 
FULL UNE OF PLASTIC KITS & BAlSA WOOD 
HOURS: MWF 9:30-7:30 T Th S 9:30-5:30 

:14:1 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
S0l1TII BEND 

(:1 BLOCKS WEST OF LASALLE 
PHONE 2!!7-01!!0

HOTEL) 




NICKlE'S 
PRESENTS 


60 HOURS 
OF THE LOWEST BEER PRICES IN THE COUNTRY! 
MON, TUES, WED: 
PLUS THE BEST HALF-POUND CHARCOAL GRILLED HAMBURGERS IN TOWN 
NOON  -MIDNIGHT  
THURS, FRI, SAT:  
NOON  -8:00 P.M.  

....................1._------------------------------------------------~.. 

Thursday, February 27, 1975 the observer 
Agenda at meeting varied 
SMC Regents approve budget proposals 
by Pattie Cooney Contributing Editor 

The St. Mary's Board of Regents met on Friday, February 21, and Saturday, February 22, to discuss faculty salaries, library renovation, tuition increase, confirmation of the new college president, Dr. John M. Duggan, tenure recommendations and other matters. 
The regents approved the following recommendations regarding salaries of faculty and exempt administrative personnel: that the minimum starting salary for a full-time instructor be set at $9.000, and compensation for part­time faculty be increased to $950 per three credit hour course; that most full-time faculty and ad­ministrative staff receive an in­crease equal to six percent of their present salary; and that an additional two percent of the present faculty and administrative staffbudgetbe allocated on basis of merit. 
"The above changes actually represent an increase of ap­proximately 11.5 percent over present allocations for total compensation of eligible faculty and administrative staff," said Dr. William Hickey, Acting President of St. Mary's College. 
According to St. Mary's Public Information Office, the Board also approved modifications in the College's current fringe benefits to allow for earlier participation in the TIAA-CREF retirement program. In addition _it was decided to provide education benefits for the spouse and children of a deceased full-time faculty member who had served on the faculty for a minimum of eight years and was employed at SMC at the time of death. 
"We also provided the Board with a report concerning the area of tenure as compared to other institutions," commented Hickey. Formal announcements con­cerning tenure will be made at the Faculty Spring Banquet in May. "However, individual faculty members are aware of promotions and tenure." he continued. 
The Regents also approved an increase in the tuition. The exact amount of increase will not be released until parents and students have been officially notified. "I am presently drafting a letter regarding an increase in the fee structure and parents will be receiving notification within a week," explained Hickey. "We conducted a total cost study in­cluding room, board, utilities, food and other materials and projected what we thought to be the 
mm1mum acceptable increase in salaries and tuition," he continued. 
Library renovation also came under discussion. The board ap­proved the hiring of Library Consultants Inc. from Northfield, Illinois to assess the library needs, problems and possible expansion. At present the primary needs of the library are for space to house. the current and projected book holdings and for increased space for student and faculty study. Library holdings number 140,463 as of December 1974. 
"The study for library 
renovation is to begin immediately 
and a fairly detailed proposal will 
be ready by September," noted 
Hickey. 
"The Board also gave its ap­
proval to allocate monies to rent 
the Campus School from . the 
Sisters of the Holy Cross, next 
year. The arrangement will be 
similar to the lease we have for 
Regina Hall,'' stated Hickey. ''The 
library, the Nursing Department 
and the Day Care Center will 
probably use the building. Any 
renovation costs must be borne by 
the college," he added. 
In the past. Campus School was 
leased to the South Bend School 
Corporation, which did not renew 
its lease for next year. "The 
relocation of the Day Care Center 
Rice discusses abortion issue; urges Church to take lir:m stand 
h_,. Pat ('tm!'o Stall' Ht•port!'r 

Dr. Charles Rice of the Notre Dame Law department discussed current constitutional decisions on abortion in a pro-life lecture delivered at Washington Hall, Wednesday night. 
Rice immediately stated that "a majority of people are not a necessity to make changes. A few people can make the difference." And to the approximately fifty people in attendance, this was precisely the case. 
The 1973 Supreme Court decision on abortion dealt with the question of constitutional rights of the unborn child. In short, the issue concerned the mother's right of privacy versus the unborn child's right to life. The court ruled, "The child in the womb is not a person," and they further stipulated that the individual states could regulate but not prohibit abortion. 
Dr. Rice professed that the only way to reverse this decision is to enact a constitutional amendment. From this course, there are two types of amendments, state's rights amendment and prohibitory type amendments. 
The other type of prohibitory the amendment. amendment is one which purely Dr. Rice commented on the states that abortion is a federal recent "Pittsburgh case" in which crime. This amendment speaks for a doctor was arrested for itself. the murder of an abortioned baby. 
Dr. Rice believes that the major In the particular case, an eight reason the anti-abortion amend­month pregnant mother had 
ments have been stalled is by, "the failure of the Catholic bishops to make a stand in support of specific standards." In explanation, Rice said that the bishops have strongly backed the pro-life stand but have failed to approve any specific language for the amendments, which is essential for the success of 
BARBARA BRUEUR-SIPPLE, 
received perm;ssion for abortion from her doctor for mental reasons. The baby was removed and films showed that the child was screaming and kicking when laid on a nearby table to die. Despite the films and testimony from doctors, the jury ruled the 
(continued on 7) 
anti-abortion songstress, sang at 
Sthe states' rights amendment
would return to the states the,...Rice.__________________________ 
Washington Hall last night. Her performance, sponsored by the Notre Dame Chapter of the Right to Life Association, followed a lecture by Prof. 
capacity to allow or forbid abor­tion. In Rice's eyes, this would do nothing to stop the backing of abortion by the Federal govern­ment. 
The prohibitory amendments may also be subdivided into two groups. One type stipulates that the unborn child is a person. The Buckley amendment is a prime example of this type. It states that the unborn child is a person at every stage in biological development. However, a major flaw exists in this amendment because it does not defina an exact time in which the unborn child is legally a person.• The Helmes amendment, in furthering Buckley's work,.states life exists "from the moment of fer­tilization." 
It is important to note that when abortion is said to "deny the right to life," the exception of the case where the mother's life is jeopardized is not a legitimate argument because this exception is made ·even under the strictest of laws. Dr. Rice added, "There is no medical or physical reason for abortion to save the life of the mother." In defense of this statement it was explained that the two prime medical reasons are not abortions in the legal sense. These cases are the development of the child outside of the embryo and the canderous uterus. · 
You can study 
the American Arts in 
England this summer! 
Your Bicentennial summer at the L'niversity of Evansville Harlax­ton Study Centre in England will be the learning adventure of your life. Study the Arts in America 200 years later . . . art, creative writing, dance, drama and music. Earn 9 college credits from June 15toJuly 15. Complete cost for room, board and tuitionis$1,000, plus air fare, including a $100 deposit. Your application deadline is April 1. Enrollment is limited, so return the coupon today for complete details. No obligation. 
.-------------------------------------­
1 Yesll want to knO\N more about my Bicentennial Summer at the 1 Harlaxton Study Centre In England Plea>j! send complete details. 
I I I NAME ___._---~--------­
1 : ADDRESS ------. ----____ ---­
: CITY ____STATE____ _ . .ZIP_ 
lI 
PHONE (AC) ___ -~----.. 

: I will be a college FR SOPH JR SR : (please c1rcle one)
"------------·---·----·--··--·--· 
IOJ• TO: Director of Admissions Dept: 43 University of Evan•vllle P.O. Box 329 Evansville. Ind. 4 7702 
• =Universityfl"'l of Evansville 

1 
An mdepcmdent. church-related.

· 
coeducational Uniuersity 

to the Campus School building will free the Clubhouse for students and faculty," observed Hickey. 
_ The Regents also received an orientation to the College science programs from the chairmen of the departments of Biology, Chemistry, Physics and Nursing._ Following the orientation was a reception in Stapleton Lounge for the Board and the whole Science department. "Tours through the Science Hall were arranged to show the Regents renovations, equipment and demonstrations," said Hickey. 
The granting of academic and honorary degrees for Spring Commencement of 1975 was also discussed. Dr. Elizabeth Sewell, poet and author, will be one of the recipients of a St. Mary's Honorary degree. Sewell will also be the Commencement Speaker. The other nominees for honorary degrees will be announced at a later date. 
Until Wednesday, February 26, the only information available on the Board of Regents Meeting was the announcement of Sewell as Commencement Speaker. 
Guys & Gals Smoker Sat. March 1 -8 pm till ??? American Legion Post 50 1633 Bendix Drive 

Free  Games  Free  
Beer  gambling  Food  
Donation  $1 .50  - 232-0031  

$2.00 at the Door 

SMC Social Commission presents: PAPER CHASE 
Olaughlin Auditorium Wed. March 5 Thurs. March 6 

Cinema Scope $1.25 9 p.m. and 11 p.m. 

,...-------------------------------------­
the observer Thursday, February 27, 1975 
More research needed on cancer cure 




Dr. Calvin challenges 'Tribune drug article 
by Jeff Arndt Staff Reporter 

Dr. Helen M. Calvin, physician at the Notre Dame Infirmary, responded yesterday to a February 21, 1975 article in the South Bend Tribune which alleges : that the drug Laetrile is dangerous and should not be used in cancer , treatment. I 
"Laetrile is not a cure for can­cer, but it has resulted in positive 
effects  when  used  on  terminal  
patients throushe said.  ghout  the  world,"  

The legal battle over the merits of Laetrile began over two years ago in San Francisco. Dr. Ernst T. Krebs recently won his case that the California law banned the use of Laetrile in the cancer therapy was unconstitutional. 
Judge Sam Cianchietti stated, "Any doctor has the right to use Laetrile and treat cancer and I am ruling that the statute is un­constitutional for that reason." 
Laetrile, or B-17, is found in the pits of many common fruits, in­cluding apricots and peaches. The substance is classified as a drug, not a vitamin, and is currently and claimed that she encouraged patients to travel to Mexico for the treatment. 
"I found no organization, but only became involved in this matter after another doctor, from Elkhart, arranged for me to view the filmstrip, "World Without Cancer," explained Dr. Calvin. This strip advanced a theory totally different to the one held by medical orthodoxy today, she said. 
"They propose that cancer is caused by some abnormality that occurs during the body's healing process, and that nutritional factors may be the key to cancer prevention," Calvin stated. 
"There is a great deal of in­tuitive logic to the theory. For example, smoking causes the body to be in a state of healing for a great deal of time. So I decided to do some research on the theory," she explained. 
As a result of her research, Dr. 


1Calvin feels that Laetrile should be made available to physicians to treat cancer victims. She found that in nations where the drug was found in the common diet, in­cidents of cancer were very much smaller than in the U.S., where the diet is void of the substance to any extent. · "For example, the small Asian country of Hunsa has no cancer at all. It is interesting to note that the diet ot these people includes a butter that is made from apricot pits," she explained. "Nations where Laetrile is used in cancer treatment have reported that about 10 per cent of their patients respond positively to the
treatment," she observed. 
Since supporting the Laetrile issue, Dr. Calvin has interviewed a number of people who have been given the treatment. Many of them have responded positively and fully support its use. 
Mon-Thur 6:45, 9:15 Friday 7:00, 9:30 Sat & Sun 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
BURT "THE LONGEST 
REYNOLDS YARD" ~0 
outlawed by the Federal Drug 
F R I 7 c 15 SAT & SUN 1:45 3:45 5:30 7:15 9:15 MON-THURS 4:00 5:45 7:309:30
Administration. . The Tribune article reported I 
:~of GRIZZLY ADAMS·
that the Michiana Committee for f<'reedom of Choice in Cancer Therapy is promoting the use of the drug in cancer treatment. It further reported that a local m~;~n 
spent "$7000 for the phony cure",
as he was forced to travel to Mexico for the drug and was charged unreasonable fees. 
"I have never heard from anyone who reported expenses as high as those listed in the Tribune," Calvin observed. 
The American Medical Association and the FDA currently list the drug as dangerous. However, Dr. Calvin asserted, experimentation with the drug has been very limited and alntost certainly and purposely avoided. 
"The reason Laetrile is outlawed is a matter of politics, not medics," she claimed. "There are two schools on cancer treatment nd the school opposed to Laetrile has been able to use its position of authority to ban the drug. The whole story on c!a!lgers of Laetrile is simply 
'r"_............._._..... 
a 'scare' story."
"I do not say that Laetrile is the 
answer; I know it is not the whole answer. But if it may result in some positive effects in 10 per cent of the cancer patients, we could help 100 of the 1000 Ameicans who are dying of cancer every day. It is 
well worth just that." 
"As a doctor, I feel that it is 
entirely ethical for me to 
recommend that Laetrile be an 
alternative for doctors in treating 
their patients. Only if American 
doctors are permitted to use the 
drug will we be able to find the 
merits in the theory," Dr. Calvin 
stated. "It's time to put an end to 
the politics." 

N 0 W APPEARING CASEY JONES & THE CANNONBALL EXPRESS AND 
LISTEN 




~Sizufa~


NO COVER CHARGE TUES-WED-THURS on US. 31 Mtwetn Niles. So. B•d-Fr11 f'ukin,-683-43~0 
The article identified Dr. Calvin as the founder of the organization 
Students confront SB candidates 
(continued from page 1) 
A question and answer period followPd the candidates' speeches and student anger at the ad­ministration's seeming Jack of concern was voiced even more strongly. The discussion became more of a forum for student opinions than a chance for the candidates to answer specific questions which was originally intpnded. 
Students attending the rally Pxpressed dissatisfaction with the manner in which the academic calendar was drawn up thisyear, ('Specially with the confusion in­volving the length of the Thanksgiving break. Invasion of students' privacy by rectors who mtt>r a student's rooms at their 
own discretion was discussed. Another student challenged the integrity of the administration in matters involving the students and called for the student body to organize and strike the ad­ministration at its "achilles' heel, advers~ publicity." 
The rally ended with one minute summary speeches in which each candidate expressed the need for students to go to the polls and vote. 
----. ---· ­

,----------­
RIVERPARK
·----------­
MI~HAWAMA AVINUI AT JOTH 
NOW SHOWING 

ART CARNEY, OMINEE BEST ACTO 

FLORIDA 
SPRING BREAK DAYTONA BEACH 
*March22-29 
* 
Includes all Transportation

* 
Includes aII Accommodations

* 
Choice of efficiencies or Regular Rooms

* 
FREE PARTIES WHILE TRAVELING

* 
Disney World Options


*Other Special Optitions
*Free Bar B Ques & Parties 
Scene from our 1974 ND Trip. in Daytona. 
LIMITED ACCOMMODATIONS 
Sign up Early 
SMC 4834 ND 277-0124
1 
283-8656 

Evenings & Weekends TOTAL PRICE 

$14250 
the "ACTION TRI P11 
Join U. of Illinois & Illinois State 
USE YOUr 
ma,ster charge 
T•lf ,.. ,. R8A~II. ( U:IO 

MASTERCHARGE 
I 

Thursday, February 27, 1975 the observer 5 
l 
the sophomore tradition of literary festivity I 
i
by ernest sondeen 

• 
It took only two years for the Sophomore Literary Festival to be recognized as an important annual affair on the Notre Dame campus, yet it grew out of a fortuitous convergence of people, ideas, and cir­cumstances which could not have been planned in advance. For example, J. Richard Rossie who in 1967 had the imagination to conceive the idea of such a Festival and who had the personal force to bring it into being seemed to appear at just the right time. Again, he probably thought the project belonged to Sophomores for no better reason than that he himself was a Sophomore, yet it is fortunate that the Festival has been from the start in the hands of students not yet firmly committed to any one major specialty and usually not intending to major in literature. This has given the Festival the broad, all-University base it has needed to succeed as a com­munity event. 

The indefatigable John Mroz and his 1968 SLF Council greatly expanded the scope C1f the Festival and in the process expanded their budget to a level of incredible fantasy. Instead of assembling a group of literary scholars and critics as Rossie had done to discuss the works of a given writer, Mroz and his Council decided to bring to the campus a group of the most prestigious writers they could think of to read from and discuss their own writings. As was said in the final session of the Festival, these Sophomores were successful because their youthful innocence prevented them from knowing theycouldnot possibly succeed. Yet their success was also due in part to a series of coincidences that fell together in a lucky pattern. 
The most significant of these was the 
fortunate timing. In 1968 college students 
across the country felt themselves to be 
deeply involved in such issues of th day as 
civil rights, opposition to the Vietnam War, 
and social. political, and academic reform. 
The writers at the Festival--Wright Morris, 
Norman Mailer, Joseph Heller, Kurt 
Vonnegut, Ralph Ellison--were important 
literary figures but also were among the 
culture heroes of the time whose writings 
expressed the students' own ideas, 
emotions, and aspirations. It is no wonder that these Festival writers addressed .overflow crowds in a highly charged at­mosphere and were received with deafening ovations. 
This 1968 Festival felt like a national event, an impression underscored by two incidents of great import that occurred during the week: President Johnson's announcement that he would not be a candidate for re-election, and the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. To dramatize further this sense that history had been made at the Festival, Granville Hicks, the eminent critic who had been the key-note speaker and had stayed through the week, filled his column in the Saturday Rt'view for May 4 with a day-by-day chronicle of the Festival under the title, "The Sophomores at Notre Dame." For the same issue John K. Hutchens, another columnist for the Review who had covered the Festival, wrote an in-depth, behind-the­scenes account of the affair. 
Far from being intimidated by the public success of this second SLF, succeeding Chairmen and their Councils have made use of its prestige to follow paths and styles of their own.. ln fact some have argued that the later Festivals have been less publicity­minded and more seriously literary. However that may be, a copious variety of authors and programs has been offered and student response has continued to be en­thusiastic. 
Everyone who has witnessed all six of the Festivals since the first one could compile his own list of "high points." My. list, biased toward poetry, would include readings and-or class visits by Gary Snyder, Nathaniel Tarn, Diane Wakoski, Robert Duncan, John Ashbery, Michael McClure, and Robert Creeley. 
I would also have to include: John Barth's amazing virtuoso reading of his Menelaiad accompanied with his display of "graphic materials"; Arthur Miller's dazzling per­formance in fielding questions for well over an hour from a huge audience with as much ease as if he were reading from a prepared script; and Jason Miller's reading of the second act of his play That ChampionshipSeason. 
As the name indicates, the SLF is festive as well as literary, an occasion not only for reading and discussing but also for celebrating literature. The festive spirit runs beyond socializing and partying with the authors, important as these activities are; it permeates their readings, lectures, and class visits. Most important of all, a festival means communal participation. At bottom the SLF is a week-long event in which the community of writers joins with the Notre Dame community in celebrating the literary and related arts. 
And since the SLF is a living tradition, each Festival is related to those that came before. The Festival next week will en­compass more than the visiting authors and those who listen to them and talk with them. The writers and audiences of the seven previous Festivals will also be present. 


slf -preparation with imagination 
A cactus is a cactus. But a festival is a fountain in the desert sprouting pleasure. The Sophomore Literary Festival had its genesis during the sixties--a time when the most obscure poet-troubador could pack a college auditorium with less notice than a whisper in the coffee line of a student cafe. 
All of us are familiar with the classic, contemporary festivals such as Woodstock that once generated an overwhelming awe for thousands of young people who had gathered together within a certain space to celebrate the ingratiating experience of art. At Notre Dame we host as unique a celebration of the word as Woodstock was for song. Fortunately the disillusionment shattering most of the "happenings" of the sixties slipped by the Sophomores at Notre Dame so that the Literary Festival has endured much like an oasis in the desert. No other university in the nation sponsors a wl'ek-long festival devoted to all of the genres in literature. 
Some realists may call it naivete to continue celebrating in the spirit of the sixties when our time is so amiss with political and social shams. But let these unimaginative diehards dwindle in their cynicism while those of us who have known the scent of poetry celebrate the imagination. Literature allows us to share in creativity that looks past our im­poverished muses and lets us enjoy the comforts of the word, however ephemeral they may be. 
A peculiar aura of "sophomoric wonder" 
floating around the festival has persuaded 
in the past more than fifty literary artists to 
participate in the festival. Artists look 
forward to gathering together here for 
performance as eagerly as we anticipate 
; 


Night Editor: Thomas J. O'Neil 
Assistant Night Editor: Virginia A. Faust 
layout Staff: Martha L. Fanning, Julie R. Pe.lettiere, Mary A. Janca, Daniel V. Sanchez, Robert P. Mader, Martha J. 
their arrival. And when they get to N-otre Dame they usually are surprised by the unreal but sweet excitement honoring their art. 
In a letter to me of two summers ago Doris Lessing wrote: "Yes, I do know about your festival and applaud it and everything it stands for. And indeed, what you people are doing there seems to me to be what literature needs." 
Hl'cently Kurt Vonnegut has renounced visiting college campuses with the one l'xception of possibly returning to Notre Dame's Festival which as a participant in 1968 Vonnegut helped to create. In an in­terview with Playboy Magazine Vonnegut was asked where his funniest performance had been. He replied: "At Notre Dame. I had those kids rolling in the aisles." 
Jason Miller planned to stay with the Festival for two days but once the spirit of the plac~ took him he decided to remain for ten days, three days beyond the festival itself. 
Bruce Jay Friedman recently wrote to a member of last year's committee that the seminar he sponsored here gave him the confidence to try teaching for a semester at a college in New York City. 
And after returning to London from Notre Dame Stephen Spender sent me a note saying, "I am most grateful for my mug and sweatshirt and books you gave me, and memories of Notre Dame as much the happiest part of my tour." In a similar but more American spirit Robert Creeley wrote: "I'm sure you're all zapping in there--what a wild energy and pleasure that whole time was ! Really good news--and thanks to all of you for all the care and good nature." 
As a departing festival chairman I recollect last year's festival with great fondness. The festival was fun but it has passed, carrying with it much of the romantic joy that accompanies being a Sophomore. But happily a new and exciting festival is ready to appear and, fortunately for us, the energy behind it beams out · in many directions, even the non-sophomoric. If we choose, the Festival can prepare us for the task of trusting our imaginations, a foundation of great literature, that provides us with not an alternative for the real but 
.JOSEPH BRODSKY TENNESSEE WILLIAMS .JAMES PlTRDY .JAMES T. FARRELL .JOliN LOGAN & SON MICHAEL RYAN TILLIE OLSEN IWBERT BLY LAWRENCE FERLINGHETTI 
,. 



.. 
the observer 

by gary zebrun 
with a source of indelible pleasure in spite of the real. 
Thinking of a festival celebrating the word amidst contemporary political and social shams brings to my mind a stanza from a poem by W. H. Auden: 
"('orne to our jolly desert where even dolls go whoringwhere cigarette-ends 
become intimate friends And where it's always three-in-the­morning." 

Sunday, March 2 :1:00pm Lib. And. 
Sunda)', March 2 !1:00pm Wash. Hall 
Monday, March :1 !1:00pm Lib. Aud. 
Tuesday, March 4 !1:00pm Wash. Hall 
Wednesday, March 5 !1:00pm Lib. Aud. 
Thursday, March 6 :I::IOpm Lib. Aud. 
Thursday, March 6 !1:00pm Lib. Aud. 
F•·iday, March 7 !I:OOpnt Lib. Aud. 
Saturday, March 8 !1:00pm Lib. Aud. 


Late Typist: Martha L. Fanning 
late Night Arrival: Gregg Bangs, 
Chris Smith Terry, remember this tonight: Out of sight, Out of Mind. Rest in Peace. 

Hogan, John Paul Jones, Bob Varettoni Day Editor: Valerie M. Zurblis 
Copy Reader: Kenneth P. Girouard Picture Screener: Albert C. D'Antonio Features: Norman F. Bower 
Sports: Pete McHugh 
Night Controller: Rick Huber 
Typists: Nell Viii, Jim Landis, Tom Modolin, Barb Norcross, Janet Carney 
· Ad Layout: Thomas J. Whelan Compugrapn1c: Morey Blinder 
6 the observer Thursday, February 27, 1975 
Election to be held March 3 
Eleven campaign for InPirg directorship 
by John Feeney Stan Reporter 

The Indiana Public Interest Research Group (lnPIRG) is holding its elections next week, concurrently with. the SBP elec­tions. The candidates are vying for seven directors positions and their names will be on the SBP ballots. The seven elected will select a chairman and officers among themselves. The candidates, with their qualifications are: --Maureen Power, a second year law student and a director of the Legal Aid Defender Association of Notre Dame. Power is currently interning at the National Center for Law and the Handicapped and recently helped prepare the Off­Campus Lease and Tenant Hand­book. She has worked for the Ft•deral Power Commission 
.1Wash. D.C.) and the Lawyer's Comm1ttee for Civil Rights Under L;,w (Wash. D.C.>. 
l'OW('r is currently working as 
.... legal adviser to lnPIRG's Mental Patients Rights Project. ln the future she hopes that some JnPIRG projects eould be tied with Legal Aid. ·-Timothy Gross, a doctoral student in philosophy. Gross received his M.A. in philosophy summa cum laude from McMaster l1niversity. As an undergraduate at i\larquette. he was chairman of the Undergraduate Philosophy Programming Committee. Gross has suggested several projects for lnPlRG investigation next year: abuses in the health care industry; basic needs of the elderly; nuclear power plant safety; desirabilitv-undesirability 
and support for ERA. He believes that the Philosophic Institute and lnP!RG could work together on a number of issues. --Lisa Molidor, a junior govern­ment major and a current member of the lnPIRG Board of Directors. She helped organize and set up lnPIRG at Notre Dame. She is a past of the State InPIRG Board of Directors. 
This year Molidor has worked on lnPIRG's Toy Safety Survey, on a preliminary Directory of Doctors for South Bend, and currently on lnP!RG's IRS survey. 
Molider suggests that InPIRG could set up a credited inter­disciplinary course that would utilize professors' skills and in­volve students in projects. --DavE' Brandewie, a junior ac­('ounting major. He has worked for the Tax Assistance Program and was a co-director of lnPIRG's Bottle Bill project. Although the bill was defeated in this session of the Indiana legislature, he is working for its reintroduction next vear. Brandewie has also worked on lnPlRG's Mental Patients Rights project. 
fl(' would like to direct InPIRG toward more community and campus projects, with more of the lnPIRG budget being spent locally. --Julie Engelhart. a freshmen earth science major. She founded and chaired the South Hollan, Ill. Environmental Organization and has worked for the Open Lands Project, an Illinois environmental action group. 
Engelhart has helped to direct InPI RG 's effort to initiate on­campus recycling of paper and 

Program in Non-Violence begins new Bail Project 
The Program in Non-Violence council of the Judges included in 
will officially begin the St. Joseph the St. Joseph County Superior County Volunteer Bail Project court division and by the St. Joseph tomorrow. County Sheriff. 
The function and purpose of the Participation in this project will project is to provide to the courts of not be limited to present members St. .Joe County information about of the Program in Non-Violence. accused individuals at the time of Time requirements are about two the accused's first contact with the hours every week (or every other court. 
week> from 7:30-9:30 a.m., The purpose of providing such Monday through Friday. In­information is two-fold: first, the terested parties are invited to judges will be able to tailor bond­contact Scully at 232-4593 or ding requirements to the degree of O'Leary in the PNV office, 338 
()

risk presented by each defendant; 
second. the arbitrary reliance on 
money as a means of securing 
release will be lessoned. 
Hopefully, the information 
provided by the project will in­
crease the number of defendants 
eligible for release on their own 
recognizance or low cash bond. 
I 
t 
Specifically, the procedure is as follows: On week day mornings, at 7:30a.m. a team of two or three volunteers will report to the county jail. They will present iden­tification provided by the court and will be given a list of persons booked during the preceding 24 hours (except. of course, on Monday morning where 72 hours 
~=~~. passed since an open court 
• 
Thz volunteers will use the 
visitor's facilities to conduct brief interviews with the newly in-
cans. She feels that much of -.Parish Partnership. 
InPIRG's emphasis and effort should be directed at en­vironmental education and en­vironmental legislation. --Thomas Martiny, a junior history major. He has worked for the Red Cross and the student mission crusade. 
He has worked this year on a number of InPIRG projects. Martiny was involved in InPIRG's Toy Safety Survey and petitioned for InPIRG's Utility Consumers 'Bill of Rights'. He also did preliminary research for InPIRG on Indiana legislators. 
Martiny suggests that InPIRG should pursue its on-campus recycling efforts and direct lnPIRG research toward the problems of off-campus students. --Timothy Hake, a sophomore accounting major. He is past president of Ft. Wayne's Young Lawvers Club and was a representative at the Indiana Youthpower Conference. 
Hake has worked this semester in the lnPIRG office. He is in­cerested in directing InPIRG in­vestigations toward the problems of governmental and corporate responsibility. He would like to increase lnPIRG's state lobbying activities. --Tom Benjamin, a sophomore government major. He was Notre Dame lnPIRG's delegate last December to the National P!RG Conference in Wash. D.C. He is interested in consumer protection and legislative research for public rights. 
This year Benjamin has worked on InP!RG 's Consumer Bill of Rights and has done research for InP!RG's Power Structure Study. 
He suggests that next year InPIRG should set up a consumer gripe service, and begin large­scale cooperation with other student organizations. --Dave Carlyle, a sophomore general program-government major. He is interested in devoting his time and debate experience towards researching InPIRG projects. 
Carlyle worked last semester on the lnPIRG Toy Safety Survey. He suggests for next year that InPIRG continue its effort to promote a Small Claims Court in South Bend. --Don Longano, a junior economics major. He is Community Service Director of Flanner Hall and Chairman of the Flanner-Lewis 
. Longano was a co-director of .lnPIRG's Bottle Bill project and is currently studying "bottle bill" 
_legislation in preparation for the next legislature. He believes that Notre Dame InPIRG should have an active say in state-wide InPIRG efforts. --Frank Musica, a first year MBA­JD grad student. Musica was lnPIRG's staff director this year <ilnd coordinated most of the .InPIRG projects. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1973 and worked for a year as a Vista volunteer in Chicago. 
' His special interest is in en­vironmental projects. He feels that lnPIRG at Notre Dame should direct more of its efforts to projects benefitting the people of Sputh Bend and the students of Notre Dame. 
eature t1mes enny' 


SAf. SUN: 3:45-5:45-7:45-9:45 M-T-W-T-7·1 

Dustin Hoffman 


"Lenny" 
A 

mUmted Arttsts Bob Fosse Film 
THURSDAY 

PITCHER BEER NITE 

TONIGHT "BRUCE CARR" 


WHITE HOUSE INN 

NO COVER

2839 N. 5th 
683-9842

Just 8 mi. north of the state line. 
Take U.S. 31 north to Niles, then north on highway 51 3 mi. 
SOUTH BEND'S IRISH PUB 
1\CO 
~ ~' 


:.r..t..t,.. ~0..
•.lire srr~~ NOW SERVING 

GYROS {A GREEK SPECIALTY) AND OTHER FINE FOOD 
ALSO Ya.JR FAVORITE BEER, WNE AND ccx:KTAILS 


ACROSS FR()NI

GOOD OLD CORB"' 

carcerated defendants. Upon ,!!!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::~~~==~~~~~~~·~::::::::~
completion of the interview, the f 
volunteers will proceed to the courthouse. There they will use telephones set up to verify the I information givento them. ' 
The verified information on the interview form will be circled in red and the form given to the appropriate judge. Once the in­formation is in the hands of the judge, the formal duties of the project staff will have been completed. However, the staff will be encouraged to remain in court to answer any question the judge may have about the information on the form. 
Originating in a proposal sent to Judge George Beamer of the Superior Court division of St. Joseph County, on January 7, 1975, the Program in Non-Violence suggested that the county begin a special bail-bond project modeled after a similar program in Cook County, Illinois. 
On January 24, 1975, this proposal was accepted by a full 
* * *NOTICE * * * 


Applications now being taken for the position of The Observer Editor -in-chief. Submit all resumes to Tom Drape at 
The Observer office toda 
Thursday, February 27, 1975 the observer 
7 



Future 2000 
New residence hall program begins at SMC 
by Anna Monardo Staff Reporter 
The Counseling Center of St. Mary's is co-{)rdinating a new residence hall program called Future 2000. The program is designed for the St. Mary's commu[\;ity and includes lectures, discussions, workshops, and films dealing with relevant topics. 

Rice speaks on abortion issue 
(continued from page 3) 
baby was still-born. 
The tragedy of the case, insists Rice, is "it was perfectly legal for the doctor to kill the baby while it is still in the womb but once it is out, it is illegal." He added, "The doctor got into hot water becaue he botched the job by not making certain the baby was dead while still inside the womb." 
During the question and answer period, it was proposed that if anti­abortion laws were to be enacted, wouldn't the underground operations serve the same purpose and also increase the dangers of abortion. Rice defended his viewpoint by pointing out that ten years ago when abortions were strictly illegal, approximately 200 a year took place in the United States. Today. 900,000 are reported yearly and there are also a large number not reported. 
"An abortion mentality" seems 
to be existent where abortions 
' have increased basically because 
1 they are available. Rice suggests that more work be done in the social areas for preventing abortions before they occur. Attitudes toward adoption, financial burdens, etc., should be 
1 
1 
implemented. 
In closing out his argument, Dr. Hice stated that the pro-life movement taking place in America is the first authentic movement since the Abolition movement prior to the civil wars. After all. it is fact that the Dred Scott decision in 1857 stated that the black slave was not a person, just as the unborn child today. The question is whether or not the unborn child will be freed by the 14th amendment. 
Gail Ritchie, assistant director of counseling, is working with a small committee of student volunteers to organize and establish the program. 
"We call the project Future 2000 because it is geared towards the future. The topics deal with problems and needs the students may have in the immediate future, and long range plans as well," explained Ritchie. 
"Each topic is handled by a faculty member, administrator or an expert in a particular field; they are people with the benefit of experience. The size of the groups vary from 5 to 50, depending on the topic." 
"An important aspect of this program is that there are no pre­determined time periods for any of the sessions. We are trying to make known in the dorms and 
throughout the college that these opportunities are available. When a group finds a topic of interest they should contact us at 4317 and a session will be arranged according to their schedules. The students must initiate these programs themselves." 
The list of topics includes What Li£e is All About by Dr. Gene G. Campanale of the Education Department and Mrs. Joan Campanale . This will be an in­formal discussion about living, marriage and family. 
Karen E. O'Neil, director of the Career Development Center will present such topics as Matching Major Area of Study to a Future Ca1Te1· and Choosing Your Major-­the Personal Touch. For semors, O'Neil is offering Senior Career Planning-Strategies for a cessful Job Campaign, Planning Workshop-Relating the Now Experience to Post Graduate Expectations and a Lifework Planning Week-end. 
Dr. Donald N.M. Horning of the Sociology Department and Mrs. Irena Horning, executive ad­ministrator of Society for the Study of Social Problems, will present a discussion on The Two Career: Family -A view From Within. Also a member of the Woman's Committee on Sex Offense (SOS) will informally provide medical and legal information about sex offences in a lecture-discussion, Bape and the Rape Victim-Women Supporting Women in a Crisis. 
Other topics include Personal Budgeting and Management by 
R.W. Berglund of the Sociology Department, Assertive Training for Women, by Suzanne B. Areson, director of counseling, and Leadership and Communication by Diane Davis of the Alumnai Association and Stevie Wernig of Student Affairs. 
"I am interested in finding out what the students what to hear," Ritchie commented, ''if people have topics which are not listed we hope to hear from them." 
Explanatory pamphlets on Future 2000 are available in the Counseling Department in the Student Affairs wing of LeMans. 


,· 
Langley Gerald Ford wishes to announce the total destruction of STEEL Studley, Leo Lightweight and Ahola Brennan in the game of intellectuals. 
Tony, Happy Birthday, but give up the fruit flies, ok? Friends and Well Wishers. 
The Galactic Dutchess hereby reduces the Pope to the position of Archbishop of Canteburry. 
SUMMER IN EUROPE, UNI· TRAVEL CHARTERS AT LESS THAN 1;2 REG. ECONOMY FARE. 65 DAY ADVANCE PAYMENT REQUIRED. U.S. GOVT. APPROVED. TWA-PAN AM-TRANSAVIA 707'5. CALL TOLL FREE 1-800-325-4867 
Komo, alias Calculus Kid, 
Happy 19th b-day at Absurdum 
Universatalia. 
Organically yours, -pumpkin-
Dear H.A., $10 for your thoughts. Let's be friends Used (?) and Confused (!) 
Dear Terry.. We all miss you lots and hope yo use gets better soon. Observer Staff 
Rots and Mike, Happy birthday, have fun at dinner. Wish Rots happy birthday; call 5282 
• J. Pat, Six months ago was the first b'g one with Mr. K. Great beginning . 
greater things to come Love,E. 
WANTED 

Need ride 3-13 to New England, back by 3·17 Jim 8927 
Senior Girls. if you would be in. terested in a iob at the Senior Club, Please call and set up an ap. pointment before Fri. Jim 7521 
Wanted: Ride for 2 to South .. Ft. Lauderdale. Call 8143 
Ride needed to Chicago Feb. 28 afternoon or evening. Mary 4543 
Ride needed to Boston area Feb. 26·28 Tom 287·6310 Costs & driving 
Need 2·4 tickets tor Dayton Game Call Dave 1696 or Tom 1814 
Ride wanted for two N. Y .C. area tor Spring Break. Desperate! Call Donna at 6906. 
FOR SALE 

For Sale. lease or hire one hall 
Rector Flanner Hall. P.S. Hall staff optional 
For Sale: Hexel Camps and Olin Mark IV's Good condition, reasonable 8012 
1974 Camaro. automatic, power, AM·FM, AC, Custom interior 232· 8600 
·For Sale: 2 Sansui AS.300 speakers . 12"·3 way systems. List: $150 ea. Excellent sound at $200 or best otter for the pair. Call Tim 6756, 8818 
For Sale: Bell& Howell receiver, small Advent Speakers $180 John 1192 
Garrard zero·lOO with walnut base t dust cover $130. Call Larry 6864 
Set of Wilson Blue-Ridge golf clubs. Right hand. 4 woods, 8 irons. Good condition. For person 5'9"­5'11" asking $120. Call Mike Towle 3134 
Disciplinary Action hanging over your head? Call Student Govt. 7668. We may be able to help. 
Medical, Dental and Law School applicants: Perhaps we can help you get accepted. Box 16140 St. Louis, MO 63105 
Tune up specialist 2 barrel car. buretor overhaul $24.95 parts in. eluded 232·1796 
Over Seas Jobs. Australia, Europe, S. America, Africa. Students all professions and oc­cupations $700.$3000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sight· seeing. Free information. Tran. sworld Research Co. Dept. F3, 
P.O. Box 603, Corte Madera, CA. 
S.H.A.R.E: Hotline phone 4311 rm 15 Holy Cross S.M.C. Completely confidential 8·12 nightly 
Western Electronics 24 hr. TV service. 1530 Western Ave. 282-1955 
Money? Morrissey Loan will lend up to $150 tor 30 days 1 day waiting period. Basement of LaFortune. Daily 11:15 to 12:15 
Accurate fast typing. North.east section of South Bend. Reasonal:lle. 
Phone 232·0746 Groucho fans! Now 4 Marx Bros books in stock at Pandoras Books. 602 N. St. Louis Blvd. at So. Bend Ave. 
GOOD TICKETS FOR THE FRANKIE VALLI & THE FOUR SEASONS CONCERT MARCH 8 AT MORRIS CIVIC ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TJCKiiT OFFICE. ALL $EATS RESERVED. 
GOOD TICkETS FOR THE MARCH 12 JOE WALSH CONCERT AT THE 
A.C.C. ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE. 
Take the Greyhound /rom Notre Dame to Chicago every Fri at 5:40. Twa busses return on Sunday. Call Tom 272·1807 
FOR RENT 
Furnished apt. second floor. Gas Heat furnished. 289-6307, 234-0596 
Now Renting 2 to 5 bedroom homes. Completely furnished for Sept. Call 234·9364 
Five and Six bedroom houses tor rent. Leases run Sept. thru May. Excellent condition within 1h mile of campus. 233-2613 
A 6 mo. sublease of a $175.00 1 bedroom apt for only $130. If in· terested call Bonnie 232.5853 
Apartments for summer sublease. Good condition, close to campus. Call 272·4156 or 277-0130 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost. black frame glasses between Grace and D·l. Call 1756 
Found: 1 pr fold wire.rimglasses in tan case. 1 pocket calculator in black case. 1 silver cross automatic pencil Memorial Lib. Lost & Found counter 
Lost: 1 pair of silver wire frame glasses, in vicinity between Nickies and campus. If found call 283.7883. Reward offered 
Reward Law Student Notebook (blue) with invaluable notes. Lost at South Dining Hall Monday p.m. Call Steve, 3705 between 5:30.6:00 
PERSONALS 
To the sad fellow who is Ob· sessed with bothering MPB; please grow up 
Dear, "Your favorite taxi service" got your valentine today. Who are you? Scotty 
Rory, So it is nice to have me back again.. lt will be nice to have you back again too, Maybe. ML, Me 
Cathy M. Youre supposed to be looking The time is now. L. 
Gret How was that Birthday First? ··Anyways, what is tequila?! Hope you enjoyed yourself. 
The Gang 
Tommy Ritter: Wishing you the best on your birthday. Susie, Barb, Nance, Joan and Burshy 
l
j t I I I I 


~8~--~t~h~e~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r_______T~h~u~rs~d=a~Y~·~F~eb~r~u_ar~y~2_7~,_19_7_s 
Distance running not that lonely for Housley,Yates 
and cross-country have a strange home meets, fan support, and by Bob Kissel paradox in. that you go through a publicity. lot of pain to go through more pain "The concept of a home meet 
Perhaps you have seen them. A (in the race). doesn't really become important group of 'crazies' out in the rain, "I personally find that the until we have a whole team, three snow, or sun, running in their competition in the races is the part men deep in each event," said tattered sweats, mittens, ski hats, of running I'm really interested in. Housley. "Without that depth, we or sun-bleached shirts. But first is the people on the team, are giving away points across 
Such is the normal life of a the involvements, and the good events." distance runner, each day of the relationships which are formed." "Our team because of the small year, whether in the hills of The transition from high school student body, thus less chance of Oregon, the deserts of Texas, or to collegiate running is an good walkons, is individually the flats of Indiana. Two members awakening that is rough on most based," explained Yates: "Our of that select few are Mike Housley runners. For Mike Housley, as a scholarship contracts are written and Joe Yates, middle-distance top high schooler out of Islington, without an athletic commitment. aces for the Irish track team. Ontario, the change has been not But how can we ask the non-aid 
Yates and Housley are two easy. runners to do well, if the completely different individuals in "In high school the season is scholarship runners are not per­a sport that demands dedication, geared to couple big meets and the forming well." almost maniacal, to the pains of small dual meets don't demand top "The program, per se, is not 
conditioning. Both runners have a races," explained Housley, "But in doing well," remarked Housley. solid high school running college if you don't run almost a "In addition track gets a bit credentials behind them. personal record, whether dual, maligned around here. More kids 
Yates. a junior from Warwick, relay, or championship race, from here probably have heard of Rhode Island, didn't even come to you're just not in the race at all. "I Walt Patulski, than ND's Rick Notre Dame on a scholarhsip or haven't accomplished as much in Wohlhuter, the best runner in the even with the intention of running four years as I thought I would world." collegiate track. coming in as a freshman," said The .concept of distance running 
..,.. 
"I didn't go on scholarship until Housley, now team captain in his is probably incomprehensible to my sophomore year and initially senior year, "but I feel everything most people. For the average 
as a freshman I ran as a walkon," I wanted to run is within reach this athlete, two miles run at a slow explained Yates. "'I went out for season." pace in nice weather is no small FOLLOWING IN the footsteps of Rick Wohlhuter, Joe Yates and Mikel winter track my first year but quit Being two of five scholarship accomplishment. Distance run-Housley lead the Irish long distance runners. after a few weeks because the runners on basically a non-ning breeds a form of intense in-about 23-28. With this prime ~ge I really get going next year," noted, academic load plus daily workouts scholarship team imparts special dividual dedication and effort, and the season to season 1m-Yates. "You've got to think that i~ was too tiring. pressures to these runners. Add to spawned by sometimes endless provement, the individual runner's 1 keep on training, if I keep on 
"A friend of mine kept on that the decline of Notre Dame's miles and hours out on the roads, thoughts usually turn to next year, progressing, next year I'll go 
1

bugging me to go out, so eventually running program in recent years regardless of weather. for another improvement in time. faster. I changed my mind," continued and the picture doesn't look the Yet a distance runner is not "Every season I've surprised "Sure I have immediate goals,:the junior distance runner. "Track greatest for runners used to plenty really in his prime until the ages of myself and the thought is always if like getting the school record in
• •t ~~~ h "•'J.lll·ng ~~~4~i~~~;n~~;k(s~~2-;h;a~:~;r~
Chee:rleade~'S.• Spl•] J.eS ~ Collegiate meet>, three-miles 
1

.& 1 1 outdoor (14:01) and the cross­suppport or tivities funds are just a dropJn the does John ~oode~ go away e~ery country course record (24:06>. Butby Bill Brink tivities, and little bucket " says Heffernan. year shakmg his head. It s a after graduation I'll hang up thefunds. 
Thoug'h they have made form_ a_l m_ agical,, feeling, your body just spikes, except for recreational
What's fifteen feet tall, has 24 The squad is open to all running."
and informal attempts to solicit tmgles.
arms and legs and is ranked sophomores, juniors, and seniors funds from the university, they And though they are the "There is dedication in aand consists of thirteen members.
number five in the nation~ have met with little success. recipients of a few occasional boos distance runner that's hard toAny astute sports fan knows that This year's members are: SMC "We've gone to th~ Athl~tic and mocking _rem~rks, the know if you're not one," addedit's the Notre Dame cheerleading senior Sue Picton, Women's Department the admmistrabon, cheerleaders take It all m good fun, Housley· "Anyone should quitsquad in one of their many gym­Captain; SMC senior Janet Father Hesburgh, the alumni, and and profess that they love the when it becomes more work thannastic formations, and he also Corrigan; ND junior Mary Ann been shot down every time," Notre Dame crowd. sport. I competed in every teamknows that in addition to owning a Grabavoy; Shelly Mueller; SMC Heffernan explains. "Georgia "We just l?,ugh with t_he~," says sport until high school, but still find junior Amy MacDonald; ND

number five ranking, they boast a Tech was on national TV, and Grabavoy. If you d1dn t laugh running the most enjoyable.
sophomore Becky Bracken; senior
first team All-American member that's the only reason we got to you'd be crying out there. It's most "I definitely plan to run after
Pat Heffernan, Men's Captain;
to boot. 1go." The squad was loaned the fun when you're able to go with the graduation in Toronto, possibly
senior Jim Ignaut; senior Mike
What most people do not know is money to make the trip to the crowd and establish a rapport." while in law school or business'
Corey; senior Dennis Buchanan;
the reality of the cheerleader's 'Georgia Tech game. "The fans are the greatest," school. My present goals are to
collegiate life here at Notre Dame. senior AI Koch; sophomore Andy The members feel their request Picton adds. "They're really qualify for the indoor NCAA mileOften mocked or taken for granted, Simshauser; and the Leprechaun, 
for funds is legitimate because crazy. We just have fun with and break the school outdoor milethe squad bears a rigorous junior Pat Murphy. they perform an important func-them." mark (4:03.6). I'll run until I get. schedule and a heavy financial The biggest problem the tion for the school and put in a lot of An added benefit for the squad is tired. and hopefully achieve some
burden that rarely enter into the cheerleaders face is that of raising 
1

time and effort in performing that the fun and enjoyment they get of the goals, now and in the future,, popular image people have of it. sufficiaent funds. According to 
function. from their trips on the road. I've set."For one thing, unlike theathletic Heffernan, approximately 50 ''One of the most important Though theypoint out the value of So if you see that unique pack of 1 
I teams. the cheerleading squad has percent of the money needed functions of the goup is that of meeting people and seeing new distance runners, Joe Yates and a year-round season. They begin as comes from the fund-raising en­
! 
public relations," says first team places, they also manage to ~ave Mike Housley are probably in soon as school starts with football, terprises the squad conducts, most All-America cheerleader Mary some w1ld and wonderful times there. having the time of their life. 
continue into basketball season, notably the selling of the now­
then conduct tryouts and I-factice famous rumperstickers. Around 35 Ann Grabavoy' "We're providing a themselves. "But it's pretty well-Fencers streak to 
link, a vital link betwee~ the controlled," Heffernan says.
in the spring to prepare for the percent is provided by student
t student body and the alumm, the "Everyone acts as a mature
activities, adn the 15 percentnext year.
~ Also. though they come under difference is made up by the sports staff, etc." adult." 15th tral·ght 20 2 
I Mary Ann also tee~s that t~e They also derive a good deal of S , ­
the authority of Student Activities, members themselves out of their
I sheer work element mvolved IS satisfaction from just performing 
they are an an internally-run own pockets.
I deserving of some more support little things for others. Though the Notre Dame fencing proved over
organization. receiving almost no "With uniform, equipment and for the squad. girls are often the target of some the weekend the victory a week~ commands from Student Ac-travel expenses, the Student Ac­"It's exfiausting," she continues, "dirty old men" they are happy to ago against Wayne State was not a
~ 
"not only physically but meet and mix with alumni or chance happening. in that theyemotionally too. You have to get up entertain small children. demolished the University o for it. If you don't get emotionally Though they had hoped to follow 

lllinois and the University o 
psyched you're not goint to convey the basketball team to the NCAA Wisconsin by identical 20-7 mark 
a!lything to the crowd. You just tournament, should they go, the at action in Champaign-Urbana.
have to totally go above and squad is not sure if they can afford­The two victories move the Irisbeyond yourself, you have to give it. If not, they will begin preparmg win streak to 15 consecutive boutall the time." for tryouts and spring practice. 
and set the season mark at 20-2.

Ultimately, this all leads up to The members emphasize the The foil team dominated actionthe frustration of being under-importance of spirit and the right finishing with 17 vicotries againsfunded. "It's not fair," Grabavoy attitude in choosing member sfrom just one defeat in the three-teasays, "For all the work and effort theapplicants. 
tourney. The victory over Illinoi.

we put into it, and we have to pay Thus-the interview that the was the 2oth time that the Irisour ow~ way." . applic~nts must go through is often have defeated the Fighting IllinDespite that_ frustration a~d ~e more important than the gym­against II losses in competitio
almost work-hke aspect their JOb nastic tryouts, and can be the can take on, the cheerleaders love deciding factor in who makes the since 1934. The yictory ove wh~t ~hey do, and don't r_egret team or not. The squad is not so Wisconsin was the 24th in 3 their mv<!lvement for. a mm~te. much interested in dazzling looks, meetings between Notre Dame an They rec_eive ~ real feeling o~ pnde but rather in someone who has the Badgers. a_n? satisfactiOn from their ac-crowd appeal. On the season, the Irish have: tivity. Picton also feels that the 409-155 bout mark. Tim Glass i 
"You obtain a self-presence of St. Mary's girls on the t•pee currently has the most vic discipline,"Grabavoy concurs, squad is an important unifying tories with :111 bout wins in 4 "and from that you can obtain factor between St. Mary's and matches. After Glass, Sa strength, physically and mentally. Notre Dame. She hopes that the Jlil'iglio and Mike McCahey art I've enjoyed it so much because I cheerleaders will never be com-tied with :15 wins. DiFiglio a feel it's a give-and-take pletely from Notre Dame. 
sabre has compiled a 35-11 mar 

relationship. You're giving of "St. Mary's has been such a gig while l\1c<'ahey at foil carries a yourself and receiving in return." part of Notre Dame for so many impressive :!5-!l record. PaThe members agree that being a years, I think it would be a big (;erard is the only other fencecheerleader here at Notre Dame is mistake to take only ND girls in the with more than :!0 wins, standing asomething special too. When out on future. I think it helps bring the 
:l:l-7.

the football field or down on the two schools together." 
The next actiom for the Irisbasketball court, they can feel and With the attitude, spirit and following a weekday bout aget caught up in that unique · effort that the cheerleaders have Cleveland will be this Saturday aemotional spirit that has made the injected into their role at Notre 10 a.m. in the ACC when the Irisschool famous. Dame, they have played an im­

THE IRISH cheerleaders pileup 13 strong. Janet Corrigan has since Pn~ertain Buffalo. Case Wester
"There's no doubt about it," says portant part in the togethernessreplaced Mary Short (top center). 
Pat Heffernan, "there's a certain present in Notre Dame athletics Purdue and the Miami of Ohio. mystique about Notre Dame. Why today. The public is invited. 










